

The
Bulletin
NEW SERIES
m
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS.
PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET ONLY,
° Dr Stock
THE ONLY UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS IN THE SUNNY SOUTH.
fie* r^>L t f . ario - and comprehensive m a wonderful degree, supplying every want and meeting every requirement. We contribute to e
eor the lennmoe form; we assist m a most economical fashion in mixing the Early Tea and the Late Coffe9; and in the Mincer represented Ave ad'
article to the household machinery.
nhance the natural
add a most useful
,—‘“\>‘
1 «if I
- WW _. ill
H: 4 ,
W’H‘gﬁx. Mining”, “’7'—
W” m "
,1; ‘ u—‘r
The Hapoieon
Spirit Stove.
Stove 7d, Kettle 6cl
Complete, Is Id.
TEA AND COFFEE
TN
HALF A MINUTE.
THIN BUSTS
PERFECTED.
Tlie A. H. and S —as. 3d.
Tlie Emporium —4s 9d.
PALACE
COBSETS.
The Palace -3s. lid.
The Haymarket—3s. 6d.
/
Sponge’s Enamelled Mincers,
No. 1,6 s. 6d. 2, 10 s. 1,13 s. (til.
THE PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET, IS CLOSE TO THE RAILWAY STATION.
Household Fixings of every kind are best bought at THE PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET.
S-a&r*-
Weigh Everything,
including
THE CONSEQUENCES.
FAIRBANKS
Champion Scales.
Will weigh, from }£oz. to 2401b5.
Price, 19s. «d,
V^ Y ’» COUMTER SCALES.
71 H 4s. 9d.; 141bs, 6s ; 281bs, 10s ;
«e„ M SGlbs, 13s. 6d.
4iiis flown to the Set.
'.w:
Palaco Granita
TOILET SET,
vise t
1 each Jugr, Basin. Brush, and Soap Tray,
% Chambers-?s. flit , complete.
A BEAUTIFUL CHOICE of TOILET
WARE.
“ Prevention is better
than Cure, 5 ’
and without implying anything
derogatory of Sydney water, we
can strongly recommend
CHEAVIN’S
FILTERS.
IMPKOYEO PATENT
tiawctM. s«f
R*PiO WATER FU.U
WPs ton tun-Ms
Our prices arc lower than those of any other Sydnev House.
17s. 21*. ]&*• 4 s * Bealls
ru ->k; 4% o 0 galls.
Larger sizes m proportion,
Hony Urn Si Sons, Palace Emporium, Haymarket only,


ALLAN A. MARSHALL and GO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DPVIMG GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
Hydrants, Skip and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &o.
UtT Brass and Beil Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blaeksmi thing
Plumbing, Gas fitting, Tank and Girder Building, Eleotrio and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description,
DOULTON’S •‘FLUSH-OUT,” "VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &c.
80/e Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Am Propellers, Exhaust Pan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BOM ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 8 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and prioe on application.
SO'
<6
Coco#
Makers to the Queen
Genuine
Economical
m
m
mm
>■. •'
wmammm
Inij Slßlillill-iiiiir
m,
mm
V . WSmmKßL^m
'V^afe^-^WyP l * . ■ W&W'^WP I "
f^arTara*■ ’**iafifT■ ,1 W : '\\n"‘ , '^"*?
3HS
A #• ~/!;slEsi
5* X/
»1
til
wm*.
k VY. ; .
Ml
ir/.
*?i
HMjSdii
% *
Pp&gS
l»« t . -.Vi
Bray <Bt Lichtuer,
24 O'Coxmell-street, Sydney,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK DEALERS.
Complete Photographic Outfits, in great variety, from £3. Catalogues post free,
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
SOLS AGENTS for BAKER’S DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and RAPID in the Market,
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies.
I
Caterer and Confectioner,
884 GEORGE STREET.
WEDDINGS, BALLS, PICNICS, AND PARTIES A SPECIALITY.
cSfc GO.,
MUSIC SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.;
Also, at London, Mayence, Paris, and Brussels.
]f> l&bgest STO CK Tn THE COLONIES
STAR & GARTER FAMILY HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
nmR Hotsl is centrally situated, being close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramway. Ac
i Riirverior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. Sirst-class Wines and Spirits
iob most Comfortable and Commodious Private Bar in the city.
Baimi'ann,
107 Pitt*atrcet,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
*r* LUNCHEON AND RIJBBSHMBNT KOOMP 108 LADIBB AND QBNTLBMKK,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
ii. ni iii a? hi®
Importers of
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING
RAILWAY AND OTHER CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDERS
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS' SUPPLIES, &c.
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSHWARE
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACKB
BHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
M
B815CU!
”AiMr
111
e
PORTABLE Tfm
and BBMI-FIX3D *
GIWBS
VERTICAL anditf
ZONTAL BOILS 1 * 5
TEAM and ott
PUMPS
LATHES, PLAjgi
SHAPING, sca&
ING, ami DRILLS
MACHINES
STEAM HAMM33B
RNGINBBRS’
FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLL
SHAFTING
QUICKSiLVRR, &0,
Pries lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHARMERS, & CO.,
Head Warehouse -
iron ani implement Yard
Bulk Stores
Tendon Oflioa
- 64 YORK STREET,
- I-lAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING! HARBOO
SITIDMEITi
, 8* 6RAOJSOH tJRCH STRMWi 1
Alex. Borthwick. Q| asS
WALLPAPER, PAINT, &c.
2SI. Cheoxgre-st., S^cLxxe^
OFFORD & CO.’S HAI S
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
Next to Royal Hotel, and at 652 George Street.
The FOLLOWING GOODS
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Corn Paint, Is.
Asiatic L'niment, as.
That Modern Appetiser—The Australian Relish—ls
A. Soyer’s Baking Powder (free from alum), 6d.
Page’s Custard Powder, 4 in box, Is—makes two
quarts line custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linctus, for c mghs, Is.
Clay t-'n’B Nervine, for toothache and cold in the
gums. Is.
nr. Barbarossa’s Canthsrides and Russian Bear’s
Grease OH, for covering bald paicaes and pro-
ducing whiskers, 2 >. 6d.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
177, 268 and 260 ■PITT STREET.
DENTISTS
133 ELIZABETH ST
& i
A.
m
MACHINERY.
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE STOCKS
WITH ALL ;
NEWEST DESIGNS
HIGHEST FINJShJI
at ' :|
||WESTCOgr|
CRAfJS 3
and
hoistsn^
ENGINES'
LAWU
MOWER 8 '
LOCOMOTIVES,TUGS, LAUNCHES, & c '
ESTIMATED TOTI COMPLETE
m\i
Sydney:
HI, PITT STREET.
Melbourne:
22, KING STREET.
Dr. t h o
may be consulted on „ m jop
Nervous Debility, Skin and Contagious An ( ,„ € t<
Medical Establishment, 203, Elizabeth- 8U
near Bathurst-stroet.
M
Hours ; 9 till 10 daily. t)( (
Dr. Thomas is the only medical man adf
in Australia who has passed the degrees
lish Physician and Surgeon. Examinations ic i 9
—Licentiate oi the lioyal College of ■° y l i e gC
London, 18^4: Member of the lioyal
Surgeons, London, 1t59.
i!B*


THE
BULLETIN
Vol 3 —No. 143 -New Series.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1886.
Frloe—64.
Malfeasance.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1886.
There is no more pernicious form of govern-
ment than that of a corrupt Democracy.
A worthless Court or an intrigueing aristo-
cracy may exist for centuries, and, passing
away, leave the body politic sound. But
when rulers, chosen by the people them-
selves, prove false to their trust, and when
their turpitude has little effect in destroying
public confidence in them, national putre-
faction has set in. This was probably in
De TocqtteviMjE’s mind when he wrote
“The corruption of men who have casually
risen to power has a coarse and vulgar infection
Id it which renders it contagious to the multitude.
To pillage the public purse, and to vend
the favours of the State, are arts which the
meanest villain may comprehend, and hope to
practice in his turn. ... In a Democracy,
private citizens see a man of their own rank in
life, who rises from that obscure position, and who
becomes possessed of riches and power in a few
years; the spectacle excites their surprise and
envy, and they are led to inquire how the person
who was yesterday their equal is to-day their
ruler. To attribute his rise to his talents or his
virtues is unpleasant; for it is tacitly to acknow-
ledge that they are themselves less virtuous or
less talented than he was. They are, therefore, led
(and not unfrequently their conjecture is a
correct one) to impute his success mainly to some
of his defects; and an odious mixture is thus
formed of the ideas of turpitude and power, un-
worthiness and success, utility and dishonour.”
Democracy in America.
Thus the effects of corrupt popular govern-
ments are more noxious and far-reaching
than those of any other form of rule.
Again, a system which challenges compari-
son with other systems should appear before
the world with clean hands. When Euro-
pean nations disoover that there is a real
connection between legislation and the
number of handsome women who assemble
at Washington; that, to obtain State conces-
sions, public companies are often obliged to
spend enormous sums on “ preliminary ex-
penses,” and that the uncompromising
patriot of yesterday, who lived in decent
homeliness and contracted chronic insomnia
through measures to benefit his fellows,
inhabits a palace to-day and rents a Scotch
moor, it is little wonder if Democracy ap-
pears to them even as a mirage—a pleasant
prospect, but a useless possession.
* * *
•“ it is because I am not an adversary of
Democracy that I have sought to speak of it
in all sincerity. Men will not accept truth
at the hands of their enemies, and truth is
seldom offered to them by their friends.”
The reason assigned by De Tocqueville for
pointing out the shortcomings of popular
rule will cover us also. It is because we
believe in Democracy, because we think it
not alone the best form of government, but
the only form adapted for a progressive
(people, that we speak. There is not an Aus-
tralian colony in which, during tne last few
years, Ministers or members have not
done things which should have excluded
them for ever from any furthor share
iu the public life of the community—
things which, iD some cases, at all events,
should have placed them in the dock,
if a person who votes in a certain way,
'-either as the result of a direct bribe or be-
cause he thinks the measure he supports
pecuniarily benefit himself, is not de-
serving of hard labour and low diet, it is
because society extends to the corrupt legis-
lator the consideration it denies to the vul-
gar thief. Yet it requires no demonstration
t 0 show that the former’s offence is much
the ranker of the two. One defies the law,
but the other muddies the very springs of
1 National life. Take, for instance, the case
of a representative who obtains at a nominal
price shares in a public company with the
distinct understanding that he is to do his
best to induce the Government to purchase
the company’s property at a figure far
beyond its value. Or the case of one who,
to raise the value of his own land or of the
property of those willing to reward his ser-
vices, considers that a rouudabout rather
than a direct railway would be a public
benefit. Why should the dipping of his
hand in the common purse be regarded with
such complacenoy while the robbing of a
private till is punished with such rigour?
Instances of barefaced malfeasance are of
such common occurrence that people cease
to wonder, and content themselves with
laughter. When one of more than ordinary
impudence takes place the extreme course
ROBERT BROWNING,
POET AND DRAMATIST.
is taken of expelling the guilty member.
But so charitably are these backslidings
looked upon in many cases that the culprit
is sent triumphantly back to the House he
has disgraced. In thus allowing an elec-
torate to return whom it pleases, there is a
nice point of constitutional law involved.
We trust the day is not far distant when a
person expelled from Parliament for using
for the furtherance of private gain the vote
entrusted to him for the general good will not
be eligible for re-election until acquitted by a
common jury. It is time that these actions
should be given their proper names—crimes
as mean as picking pockets and far more de-
tractive of morality. Until they are looked
upon as such and their perpetrators obliged
to defend themselves from behind gratings,
Demooracy will offer a fair mark to the
shafts of its numerous enemies. To sentence
to a temporary deprivation of his seat one
who robs the State, while sending into penal
servitude one who steals a watch, is surely
the height of unwisdom.
* * *
It may be urged that the choice of electors
would be circumscribed by denying them
the right of returning to Parliament whom-
soever they wished. But the right is denied
in the case of convicted felons, uncertid-
cated bankrupts, and others. Not long
since, in Victoria, a man was elected by a
good majority. It appeared, however, that
20 years previously he had failed for a small
sum, and, through negligence, failed to ob-
tain a certificate. He was a reputable
citizen, and against him no whisper of un-
fair dealing had ever been heard. But the
House was barred against him all the same.
A short time ago, in New South Wales, only
two members could be found at a well-
attended sitting to vote against the expul-
sion of a representative for a scandalous
malfeasance. His forced retirement was
but of short duration. Backed by his con-
stituency he, unabashed, took his seat again.
It is high time that steps should be taken
to render such abuses impossible. To allow
such a person to assist in framing laws
is a grave scandal. Denying him the right
of ever again sitting in the Assembly he dis-
graced no more curtails the people’s privi-
leges than a similar denial extended to the
professional thief. We are not now dealing
with cases where members have been ex-
cluded merely for entertaining peculiar
political or theological opinions. Parlia-
ment may have the power to close its doors
against men unfortunate enough to hold
heterodox views on government and reli-
gion, but it certainly has not the right. In
English history there have been many cases
where, owing to prejudice run riot, men
have been tyrannically deprived of the
rights conferred upon them. That of Wilkes
in the last century and of Bbadlaugh to-
day will at once occur. Of the latter’s ex-
clusion from the British House of Commons
it is difficult to speak with patience. The
persecution to which the member for
Northampton was subjected in his manful
efforts to support his undoubted claim is
one of the worst episodes in the history of
English representative government. The
motives which prompted the shameful
denial of justice were as mean as the reason-
ing by which they were supported was
puerile. For by no means the first time
Englishmen flaunted their Philistinism in
the world’s eyes, and stupidly accepted as
admiration what was intended for ridicule.
High Church dignitaries—Cardinal Mas-
king amongst them—strove their utmost to
make the prohibition perpetual, and, by
their arguments in high-class magazines,
considerably improved Europe’s digestion
by increasing its mirth. Mill, who sat for
Westminster, dealt Theism far more vigor-
ous blows than Bbadlaugh did, but—
he avoided the subject of perpetual pen-
sions. And now that the curtain has at
length gone down on the farce*
colonial Conservative journals discover that
the member for Northampton’s “bump-
tiousness ” was the cause of his long ostra-
cism. To exclude men, then, on account of
their opinions from legislative bodies, whioh
are supposed to be a reflex of the nation, we
consider a flagrant injustice, while to give
free admission to those who have made use
of their position for the purpose of private
gain runs counter to every canon of moral
government.
* • *
There is a kind of malfeasance which*
wjiile not prompted by selfish or sordid
motives, is yet inimical to the public weal.
It is when men temporarily at the head of
affairs take upon themselves to act as it in
obedience to a direct mandate from Parlia-
ment. We have lately had many illustra-
tions of this description of wrong-doing.
When Mr. Dibbs or Sir John Robbbt-
son sanction the paying away of hun-
dreds of thousands without Parliament-
ary permission, and trust to Providence
to obviate the necessity for fresh tax-
ation, the thought suggests itself to seri-
ous men that, in less scrupulous lands,
such extensive powers might be used in a
manner detrimental to the general well-
being. As a correspondent rather sensibly
remarks:—“ln the good old times, when a
shepherd took a flock of sheep, they were
counted to him, and when he gave them up
they were counted again. If there were
any missing which he could not satisfac-
torily account for he had to pay for them.”
It might be difficult to apply this principle
to men who light-heartedly transfer a bal-
ance from the right to the wrong side of the
national ledger, and, while clinging tena-
ciously to office, passionately reject the
necessity for fresh taxation to balance the
accounts. There appears to be no real sense of
responsibility. Parliament meets, condemns
its steward, replaces him with another, and
there the matter ends. The late steward,
instead of being brought to book, changes
his seat, and bides his time for a fresh oppor-
tunity to show the public what a master he
is of finance. Time was when his financial
experiments would have led to the incon-
venience of his parting at one stroke with
his post and his head. Later still the cum-
brous process of impeaohment would have
taught him—if he survived it—and his suc-
cessors, that the comtersion of credit into


debit balances was a hazardous occupation,
bonducive neither to comfort nor longevity.
But the most conspicuous instance of this
pattern of ill-doing was afforded by Mr.
Dalley in his historical offer of disciplined
troops, which he did not possess* for seiVice
ih a broil which did not concern him.
Here was the ease of a man, whose
seat in a non-elective body was secure,
committing the colony to a course of action
which, but for a combination of purely
fortuitous circumstances, might have cost
thousands of lives and millions of money.
It is not due to his foresight that Australian
troops are not now rotting in Khartoum, or
snowed up in Afghan passes. Swayed by a
bastard Imperialism, he, without consulting
Parliament, pledged New South Wales to a
policy from which retreat was but a shade
leas dishonourable than advance. No more
melancholy sight do we remember than the
departure of those ill-trained men to help
in suppressing the rising of a wretched
people against a cruel despotism. And to
think of the prominent Churchmsn—fol-
lowers of the Prince of Peace—who came
forward with prayers and blessings to help
the awkward rabble on their merciless mis-
sion! The anniversary of their departure
should be kept in the colony as one of hu-
miliation and prayer. Surely the time has
come for the people of New South Wales
to say resolutely “ Those who dissipate our
savings, pledge our honour, or risk our lives
without consulting our chosen representa-
tives, will do so at their peril.”
* * *
To come to the point: there is at present
no ready method by which either Parlia-
ment or the people can visit malfeasance in
office with real, effectual punishment. Ex-
pulsion from the Legislature is a disgrace,
truly? but the sting is taken from the humr
liation, when the sense of the public per-
ceives that among the expellers are some
persons who have on other occasions or in
different respects merited punishment quite
as much as the expelled persons. Besides,
expulsion is a dangerous weapon, as we have
already indicated, liable to abuse, on the
one hand, and to nullification on the other,
a single constituency being able, for per-
haps the most sordid of local reasons, to
neutralise the action of the representative
Chamber by re-electing the ejected mem-
ber. What is required is a method or
real punishment, a machinery easily
put in motion, effective when sat to work,
and vested with powers to inflict punish-
ments equal in severity to the gravity
of the offences to be dealt with. Instead of
the, too often, farce of expulsion, there
should be available, and readily available,
real penalties, and Ministers or members
who may feel disposed to abuse their trusts,
barter away their influence, or violate the
Constitution and betray their country into
irreparable false policy, should have ever
before their eyes the real terrors of
pecuniary personal liability and the felon’s
cell.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Hour and the Sian.
Sib John Robertson's colleagues must have felt
highly honoured the other evening when the?
heard him state that he had offered office to no less
than ten gentlemen, who, for various reasons,
declined the honour, and that the only thing
which induced him to entertain the idea of making
any further attempt to get a team together was
assurance given hy the ten gentlemen that he had
their sympathy, and that it was their intention to
give the Government their “ cordial support ”
Sir Henry Parkes showed his sympathy on the
following night by making a vigorous speech
against the Government. He strongly condemned
them, and recorded his vote against a motion
proposed by Sir John, the negativing of which
would have meant the retirement of the Govern-
ment from office. Two other of the alleged “ cor-
dial supporters ” —Messrs. Poster and StriTOß
also voted against the motion. Promises of cor-
dial support are never given unconditionally by
men of Sir Henry Parkes’ calibre. Such an idea
could never have arisen in Sir John Robertson’s
brain in the days of his intellectual vigour. Con-
ceive Sir Henry Parkes or any other leading
politician promising “ cordial support ” to a Minis-
try still unformed, and to a policy yet in the womb
of time 1 The entire tendency of political affairs
at the present time points to the probability
that the Voice of the country will before very long
demand that Sir Henry Parkes shall resume the
helm of State, as the only available pilot who has
strength, skill, and experience to extricate the
ship from the breakers inro which it has been per-
mitted to drift. Necessity knows no law. The
condition of the finances will permit of no further
long-continued dabbiing. It is not at moments of
danger that novices and amateurs can be per-
mitted to try tneir hands and play at experimental
politics. The hour has come, some time ago. The
colonists of New South Wales have been looking
expectantly for the man— the new, young, strong,
man—and he has not made his appearance. Mr #
Dibbs has made himself impossible, Mr. Abbott
has failed yet to sufficiently impress the commu-
nity with the comprehensiveness of his abilities,
although he may hereafter develop political con-
ceptions of a more liberal tendency than have been
indicated in his most recent utterances. A
little time ago considerable expectation cen-
tered upon the Speaker, but he has not
risen to the occasion, and now the idea
of Mr. Barton descending from the chair and
Baving the country by an application of the wizard
oil of uniform suavity and invariable courtesy
can only excite a smile* Sir John Robertson*
dribbling petulant complaints about “the exe-
crable Press,” and ottering squatters a bribe of
deferred millions to induce them to supply tem-
porary thousands, has already compromised his
Ministry of odds-and-ends past retrieval, It seems
little use repining. The country must accept its
only remaining alternative •with the best grace it
can.
+
“ Bigotry and Bo;ks.”
On the 9th January of this year we, in an article
in this paper under the above heading, called
attention to the fact that works of fiction were
issued from the Sydney free Library “on week
days only,” and stated that we feared this to be
the result of Cbadbandism working in an under-
hand manner to defeat the will of Parliament as
expressed by specific motion. On the 28th ult. Mr.
HENttV Copeland, from his place in Parliament,
interrogated the Minister for Public Instruction as
to the truth of these assertions, and was informed
that the resolution of “March, 1878, include
the lending branch, which was opened on the
order of the Minister for Justice.” This reply
must have startled Mr. Copeland, who was one of
the majority in the division of 19 to 12, by which
the motion was carried. Its terms were—“ That in
the opinion of this House it is desirable, in the
intsi-estsof Society generally, to open the Free
Public Library and Museums on Sundays.” Now,
as the lending branch of the Free Library is a part
only of the whole Library, as is further shown by
the fact that officials at the reading branch may be
called upon for duty at the lending room, it is
manifest that the Free Library could not be
deemed open to the public if that branch were
closed. Therefore we confess our complete
inability to discover why it was necessary
for the Minister for Justice to act unless under
the compulsion of this order of the House.
But from the reply of the astute Young
it would appear that, after this order was made’
the trustees over-rode the action of the Minister,
and limited the number of books issued by refus-
ing to allow works of fiction, which the Ministers
assert comprise the majority of books borrowed’
to go out. We don't know who these trustees
are, but we do know that when it was proposed to
add some French books to the catalogue one of
these learned bibliopoles sapiently remarked, “Oh>
be hanged to them foreign books; let’s have trans-
lations. What’s the use of books that no one can
read?” Theymay.be excellent men, and this
anecdote shows how eminently qualified some of
them are for their positions, but we would like
to know what powers they possess, and the degree
of their accountability. It is necessary to sum up
the progress of this Sunday question that we may
see how the present state of affairs has been
evolved. Parliament, by motion, ordered the
opening of the Library; the Minister of Justice,
it i-3 affirmed, opened it on Ms own motion; then
the trustees closed more than half the shelves, and
the Minister for Education explains why this has
been done. The masterly stratagem of the trustees
deserves ample recognition. In the Gospel ac-
cording to Young we read that they, “ wishing
to discourage the excessive issue of prose fiction,”
decided not to issue novels on Sunday I Such
a stroke of policy would seem to bear the
imprint of genius if we did not know that
there is not the slightest effort made to
lessen the number given out on the other six
days of the week. We would suggest to these
superlative strategists that they should limit the
issue of—say, works of jurisprudence, by refusing
to allow them to be borrowed on the 29th of Feb-
ruary in each year. That would be on a par with
their action in this instance. It is hardly possible
to suppose that these trustees are as childishly
simple as Mr. Young’s answer would lead us to
infer, but the only other explanation must be
based on the assumption that the Minister by this
answer has issued “ a prose work of fiction ” to
the House. One other point in the Ministerial re"
ply deserves notice, and that is the contemptible
pandering to the lower classes evinced by the state-
ment that the issue of works of prose fiction
was stopped because two-thirds of the books were
borrowed “ by boys and girls of the upper
classes.” There is ample reason for doubting this
staljpent: boys and girls of what are generally
spokln of as the upper classes buy their novels,
and do not borrow them from a vulgah library
where the common people get books. Even if
they did, they would get them on a week day, for
they have then the opportunity which is denied
to the manual labour class, for whose sake we
desire to see these shelves opened on Sunday.
It was for the sake of those who cannot
afford to keep a library of their own that
Free Libraries were established, but if we be-
lieve Mr. Young it is the wrong class of people
who use the books. We are inclined to think that
the Minister, in making this reply, has been
entirely misled, and we think it a less censure
upon the authorities generally to entirely disbe-
lieve the whole explanation than to accept it as
true. If, for instance, one-third of the borrowers
are only such “ on sufferance—being children under
age ”_it is plain enough either that the rule which
prohibits such from borrowing is useless and
obsolete, or else that the officials are to blame for
allowing regulations to be broken by so large a
percentage of borrowers. For the sake of the
trustees and the officials generally, against whom
the suspicion of narrow-minded bigotry has by this
reply by Mr. Young been raised, we hope that Mr.
Copeland will go a step further and insist upon a
full and true explanation of the whole situation.
The fact remains that the will of Parliament has
been thwarted; it is necessary to discover by whom
and for what purpose this ha 3 been done.
+
Federation and Independence.
To us, who have always looked towards Federa-
tion as a step in the direction of Australian
National Autonomy, it cannot fail to be gratifying
that the first assemblage of a federal nature should
have afforded occasion for a public utterance of
the aspirations of Australian patriotism. The
speech of the venerable Premier of Tasmania fills
us with as much joy as it has overwhelmed some
of our contemporaries with dismay and confusion.
Nothing could have been more unforseen. hh«
delegates were presumed, judging by the experi-
ence of past events—the annexation of Fiji, for
example—to be all on their best conventional be-
haviour, expeotant and solioitous of participation
in the shower of titular distinctions which
generally sprinkles the participants in an
event of this kind. Consequently, nothing save
adulation of their betters (in England) and ex-
pressions of meek contentment with the depen-
dent station in life which Providence has been
pleased to bestow upon these “ dependencies,”
were looked for from the delegates. The public
of Australia has long been accustomed to recog-
nise as the most humble trucklers to our “ su-
periors ” in England the most prominent of our
public men. Plain colonists might speak their
minds without heed of consequences, but Minis-
ters of the Crown could only declare themselves
Australians first and British immigrants in a
secondary sense at the risk of forfeiting their
chances of a star, a bit of ribbon, and a handle to
their names. Mr. Douglas, the veteran Premier
of Tasmania, has spurned these potent considera-
tions. He spoke like a statesman, where all where
expected to drivel like courtiers and fawn like
spaniels. Mr. Griffith, of Queensland, a
knight-expectant, who ia about due for the
distinction, dodged all round the momen-
tous question raised by the old states-
man’s bluff and pregnant utterance with a
pitiful dexerity of commonplace. The state-
ments made by Mr. Douglas were that, in the
case of England being engaged in a Euro-
pean war, the States of Australia Would neces-
sarily consider the disadvantages of the Imperial
connection, and that, apart from such a stimulus
to a desire for independence, the natural growth
of these communities must, in due course, indis-
pose them to their present position of subordina-
tion, dependency, and political inferiority. We
have pointed the same morals so frequently that
we need scarcely reiterate the reasonings with
which our readers are familiar, and we may pass
with a smile over the puerile efforts of the Jingo
Press to minimise the significance of the veteran
colonist’s declaration. These colonies are no
longer mere congeries of expatriated Britons j
And every year increases the population of native
born Australians. The time is already past when
to the people of Australia the term of mother
country, as applied to.thelittle islands on the other
side of the world, carries with it any sentimental
value, or beats the ring of a truthful epithet. To
a large proportion of the Australians of to-day,
Australia is their mother country, and England is
regarded in the remoter relationship of the grand-
mother country.
+
Law Makers and Law Breakers.
If our leading politicians fail to secure worthy
distinction for their efforts in the way of law-
making, it certainly cannot be said that they are
not worthy of condemnation for their efforts at
law-breaking, as three succeeding New South
Wales Governments have been guilty of violent
inroads on the Constitution and absolute defiance
of Statute law. One cf the fundamental prin-
ciples of the Constitution is that Parliament shall
have complete control over all public expenditure;
and the Audit Act distinctly provides that no
money shall be paid out of the Consolidated
Revenue Fund without the sanction of Parliament.
The necessity of this principle is obvious, but
the Stuart, Dibbs and Robertson Governments
have totally disregarded it. Finding themselves
short of money to meet engagements, they have
adopted the convenient, but illegal, method of
transferring money from the general fund to that
fruitful source of corruption, the Treasurer’s
advance account. Within the last eight weeks
no less a sum than £250,000 has been made available
in this way. To what services this money has
been devoted Parliament is not even aware. Mem-
bers were told the other night that the money
had been paid away, and therefore it would
have to be voted, and it is surprising to
learn that no member thought it his duty
to demand a statement giving the items.
There was some slight murmuring against
the practice, but the occasion was one which de-
manded, if not positive repudiation, at any rate a
distinct avowal that any similar breach of the law
would not be approved of, and that the perpe.
trators of the misdeed would meet with condign
punishment. The worst offender, as far as is
known at present, is Mr. Dibbs, because he took
the necessary official action to get a sum of money
transferred while Parliament was sitting. That
gentleman must have been very hard pushed for a
reason to j ustify such an exceedingly dangerous
violation of the SDirit of the Constitution and of
Statute law when he penned this:—“ This arrange-
ment will obviate the necessity of asking the nine
associated banks to make advances on the
personal guarantee of the Government, for which
nine separate accounts would have to be opened.”
Does Mr. Dibbs think that the public are so stupid
as to suppose for a moment that the nine asso-
ciated banks would advance his or the present
Government £50,000 on their personal guarantee?
We imagine that, under the circumstances, the
banks would require [something safer than p.n.s—
we know that some of our politicians have a par-
ticular fancy for attaching their signatures to
such documenis, and if rumour be true the only
value of them is such as attaches to the signatures
as the autographs of distinguished persons. The
danger of the practice is aptly illustrated in Mr.
Dibbs’ case. When he found that engagements
had been entered into, and that Parliament had net
provided the funds t~ meet them, his clear duty
was to have sought the necessary appropriation.
But this would hava been highly inconvenient
for him, as he would have been forced to declare
the state of the finances sooner than he did. Thus
it will be seen that a corrupt Government might
make the course smooth for retention of office for
a considerable length of time, and leave their
successors a legacy of unauthorised expenditure
for which they would have to get the sanction of
Parliament. If the events of the last year or so
are to be accepted as precedents, responsible
government will soon be divested of all its re-
ponsibility.
Ireland and the “Echo.”
It is on Irish questions that the Sydney Echo is at
its best. It is when it boldly vaults into the ring
to tackle matters which have puzzled Froude
and Leckey, that it shows an inspired talent for
supporting the wrong side of a subject, concerning
both sides of which it is quite in the dark. Hear
, it upon Dr. O’Doherty's last speech:—The
Dr., tells us that all Ireland wants and has wanted
is to be just in the position of a British colon*
But would the people of New South Wales want»
separate Legislature if they were as close tn
England as Ireland is ? If we could be representas
at Westminster as conveniently as Ireland can
our aspiring politicians would rather be members’
of the House of Commons than of a smaller
colonial legislature. Algeria is separated fro™
France by a larger stretch of water than St.Gporirß’n
Channel, vet Algeria is represented in the Parlia-
mentjof France. Corsica is an island, and is farther
from Paris than Dublin is from London, but Cor
Sica is simply a department of France.” A little
over 30 years ago the people of the southern p or .
tion of New South Wales demanded a national
life of their own, or, in other words, separation
from the mother colony. They were nearer to the
latter than Ireland to England—indeed, were only
separated by a river and a line as imaginary as a
meridian. Had the opinion of the New South
Wales authorities been considered final, Victoria
would still be sending representatives to Sydney
uuless by means of a successful rebellion she had
managed to secure separation. Some years later
the people of Moreton Bay decided on setting up
housekeeping. Their territory also was coter-
minous with that of New South Wales.
But, all the same, they asked for and ob-'
tained political independence —so far as New
South Wales was concerned. Thus we see
the] whole of Eastern Australia occupied by
three flourishing but mutually-independent colo-
nies, with a prospect of a fourth being created by
the division of the youngest. Yet these settle-
ments had no old racial or religious grievances
to divide them. It can scarcely be denied that
both Victoria and Queensland would be far less
vigorous and prosperous to-day if they were still
governed from Sydney. We submit that, with
such examples before them of the benefits of local
government, the Australian who would deny
Home Buie to Ireland, adopts prejudice, not
reason, for a guide. Every argument in favour cf
Victorian local government is strengthened when
applied to Ireland. Take America again, or
Canada, or South Africa. There we see precisely
the same plan of local administration at work with
the same gratifying results. If a Parliament is to
be denied Dublin because Algeria and Corsica are
governed from Paris, then the local assemblies
of the United Btates and of the various colonies
are mistakes. When, therefore, the Echo con-
demns Irish Home Rule, it might, if only out of
compliment to its limited circle of readers, obtain
some elementary work on the subject, and not so
persistently occupy the role of the blind leading
the blind.
A Sham Moral.
To reading the Pall Mall disclosures, Mrs.
Hampton and her daughters assign their deter-
mination to make away with themselves. So the
Australasian breaks out with" Had not the
foul, false, a id malignant trash originally pub-
lished by Mr. Stead in the Pall Mall Gazette
been reproduced here by some newspapers, the
probability is that Mrs. Hampton and her
daughters would never have read it, or found
themselves in the terrible position they now
occupy.” In every community there is a certain
proportion of weak-minded persons who are
always within measurable distance of madness.
Any occurrence out of the common will drive
them across the boundary line. More especially is
this the case when their mental tendencies
are in the direction of melancholia. These
people read of a peculiar murder or suicide
-of the suffering endured by a boat’s
crew adrift in mid-ocean, or of a child’s being
kidnapped for the sake of gain, and they are no
longer sane. Like the person, who, looking from
a high cliff, is seized with a desire to launch him-
self into the void beneath, they become possessed
of a morbid craving to emulate the doings or
adventures of which they have read. Thus we
sometimes have suicides and murders—not singly,
but in battalions’ If public information is to be
suppressed, and public abominations suffered to
flourish lest unevenly-balanced minds become un-
hinged, the invention of the printing press was a
mistake. Much the Australasian or journals of
its class cares if Mrs. Hampton and her mis-
guided daughters murdered a whole street. Mr.
Stead's unpardonable offence was the bull’s-eye
thrown by him on the bestiality of the rich. It is
not nice t o be told that the person vou worship is a
mere vulgar blackguard after all-one to whom
you could not introdnce your wife or daughter un-
less you considered their seduction an honour.
Stead s “fou 1 , false, and malignant trash ” is un-
happily too true. The colonial journalist who
whines at the immorality and brutality of the
larrikin is always ready to daub with mud the
fearless worker who exposes the ruffianism of the
titled. Long after the Australasian writer has
been relieved of all his mundane bigotry of caste
and class prejudices the name of “ Stead ” will he
remembered with gratitude by millions of pure-
minded Englishmen as yet unborn.
With respect to a paragraph in our last issue, in
which reference was made to a current and
generally believed report that the trustees under
the will of the late Sir G. Wigram Allen were
putting pressure upon a leading politician in the
matter of promissory notes to the amount of
£BOOO or £9OOO, alleged to have been found among
the deceased knight’s papers, we have explicit
information that no such notes are in exist-
ence, and, consequently, that the inferences
drawn from the reported circumstances are un-
tenable. The report had a wide currency, and
while we regarded it as beneficial to give such
publicity as would lead to a elf aring up one way
or other, it is peculiarly gratifyiig to be able to
announce that, while there is a f* undation in the
fact th'tt SirlG. Wigram Allen had made advano »
on mortgage on Sir Henry Radices’ Falconbridge
Estate, the transaction was of the ordinary busi-
ness sort, effected in the light of day, and the con-
sideration entirely of a commercial, and not of »
political kind.
Ths hatbb o» Subscription to Thb Buuao*
are —For one year, 34a.; hall-year, 138. &“•’
quarter, os. 6d.—ln advance.
Thu Advhrtising Batbs are 6s. per inch*
special positions in the paper 7s. od. P® 1
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inc»<
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions!
16 per cent.: For 62 consecutive insertions, 26 P l 6l
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in*
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders shorn®
b© made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amount
under £l, postage stamps of any Australis*
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.


THIS WICKED WORLD.
A butcher, at Maryborough (Q.), named
Tavas has been fined £1 for kissing a customer.
Poor Javas, the fine was nothing, but it was when
got home from the court the trouble com-
menced. He told the hoys afterwards he had
fallen into a thrashing-machine, and they—laid
their forefingers on one edge of their Roman noses
ndsatd “Yes!” in a tone which denoted their
entire satisfaction with his statement....“ Here,
prisoner, stand up and give an account of your-
self ” said a Southern magistrate to a “drunk,
••your washup,” asked the beery one, as he
steadied himself on the spikes, “ how can you ex-
pect an account from a man who has lost his Ml-
nnce 2 ” The Bench gave him a week to solve the
conundrum When the Chinamen were landing
x Afghan, at Sandridge (Vic.), one of them, who
W as carrying a bundle of umbrellas, was bailed up
hy a Custom-house officer and made to pay half-a-
crown on each article. Seeing this, another im-
rter of umbrellas distributed his to the other
Chows, who filed past the officer, gravely shading
their classic vi»ges with the borrowed gingham
But the Customs officials went one better than the
crafty Asiatics, and confiscated the umbrellas, of
which they now have enough to start an “Em-
porium. * * *
Prince Milan of Servia is 30 years old.
Prince Alexander of Bulgaria, his victor, is
exactly the same age—Sir Samuel Wilson for-
mally denies that the Earl of Beaconsfleld’s grave
is in a neglected state. He attributes the rumour
to “ some ill-conditioned Radical.” Sir Samuel on
Beaconsfleld’s grave suggests -Esop’s ass on the
slain lion Newspaper reporting has not yet
attained perfection in France. This is a transla-
tion from a Parisian journal:—“ The news given
in our columns that a cook-maid at Versailles had
blown out her brains for love is contradicted, in so
far that the occurrence did not take place at Ver-
sailles but at Melun; also that it was not a woman
but a dragoon, and it was not from love but during
an attack ef brain fever; that he did not blow out
his brains, but hanged himself. With those ex-
ceptions, the account was perfectly correct.”
This pleasant little parable is quoted by the S F.
Argonaut:—“ Have you lived a good life ?” said
St. Peter to a trembling female who knocked
timidly at the Gate of Beauty. " I was only good
at one thing,” said the sprite before him, with a
doleful shake of the head. “ And what was that ?”
inquired St. Peter, in a voice of blissful sweet-
ness. “ Cooking,” responded the timid one, In
woeful tones. “ Come right in, then,” said the
sentinel saint; “ you’ve saved more men from
perdition than a dote a missionaries; and I don't
believe you can find anything around here in the
Shape of blessedness that you’re not entitled to.”
.... Father, in the gallery (to his son who is leaning
over too far): “My boy, mind you don’t fall; the
seats in the orchestra are four times as dear 1”....
A new fashion in umbrellas has made its appear-
ance in the streets of Berlin. When opened they
are of an elliptical shape, and better fitted than
those of the common style to accommodate two
persons. They are called “ matoh-makers.”—
A Brisbane man “ points with pride ” to the fact
that his wife has worn one bonnet for 25 years.
The feeling with which the wife points to the hus-
band has not been described.... Mother, reading
about a good man who was nearly snavelled by a
shark: “ And when he got home he thanked God.’’
Ethel: “Why did he thank God, mother?” “Be-
cause the shark didn’t eat him.” “ Then, mother,
wfiy didn’t he thank the shark?” “The world,”
says a recent w*i te r, “owes every man a living.”
If this is a fact, the world is about as bad a hand
at paying debts as the average prominent politi-
cian Mrs. Rhoda Howard, who died recently in
the States at the age of 116, called for her pipe just
previous to her death and smoked with evident
rpligh. This confirms what we have so often
heard—tobacco is a slow poison. It is slow, any-
anyhow. Mrs. Howard contracted the fatal
habit just 97 years before her death. Let
us accept the warning given by her un-
timely end, my Kerristian friends and brothers!
Two papers, in different parts of the States, pub-
lished the same portrait on the same day. One
labelled it, “M. Clemenceau; ” the other gave it as
that of a noted burglar j ust captured. Both were
wrong. The portrait was, in reality, that of an Eng-
lish Royal Academician—“ Let me see,” said a
minister, who was filling out a marriage certifi-
cate and had forgotten the date, “ this is the §th,
ig it not ? ” “Ijro, sir,” said the tjride, with some
indignation, “this is on}y my seqondj ’....“Why,
Timmins, who are you In mourning for?” asked
Meddle, upon seeing crape on his friend's
hat. Timmins: “Why, you see, my wife’s hus-
band, from whom she was divorced, is just dead,
|nd I can’t do less out of respect to her feelings.”
How do you like America, and what kind of
a time are you having?” asked a Yankee of an
English lady visiting the States. " Oh, a very
Pleasant one,” was the reply; “but it is a matter
Of the greatest regret to my husband and myself
that we didn’t come earlier, you know, for all the
interesting people are dead! ’...., An American
dentist has discovered that talkative womenlose
their teeth sooner than their silent sisters
An English writer says that if women ruled
the world “ life would he one universal idyllic
Poem.” Perhaps so, but the average man
doesn’t care for much idyllic poem. He
Prefers pie, and perhaps an occasional whisky —
The Town Council of Chatanooga have passed a
i&w prohibiting lovers from walking the streets of
the town from 7 to 12 o'clock at Bight, in order to
Rive other people room on the side-walks. Of
course they -will have no difficulty in distinguish-
es lovers from those who are only married. We
Relieve they have thrown the public park open
% the accommodation of the turtle doves
twelve, and there is no law against spooning in
the Btreets after that hour.... Some of the English
Papers are resurrecting a musty old chestnut
about marble angels in the garden of the Bishop
Ripon, which showed the outlines of the garters
)hey fiafi Vjforn when doing duty elsewhere, as
presentments of the Queen and the late Prinoe
onsort. We don’t believe a word of It. Royal 1
p rsonages are never transformed Into angels In
t World * It is only when they float upwards
. | saccharine subsequently that they beoome
angelic .Vanderbilt’s will disposes of
$184,000,000, That is about 37 millions sterling....
An advertisement in the Times offers £50,000 re-
ward for the production of a certain marriage
certificate—Microbes are coming more and more
to the front. The cholera bacillus and diphtheritic
fungus now have a new associate, according to
Dr. Koch, in the beard-fungus (trichoptilon ton-
surahs), which produces ringworm of the chin and
face, and Is principally propagated by the careless
use of combs, brushes, napkins, scissors, &c., in
barbers’ shops. Corrosive sublimate in a highly
diluted solution is recommended as a sure means
of killing the ringworm and cleansing tonsorial
appliances. The next task for the microscope
will be to reveal the causation of bald heads....
Thirty labourers have been injured by the ex-
plosion of a still, at the Quai Tournelle, In Paris,
in which 500 litres of absynthe were heing clarified.
All the windows in the neighbourhood were
shattered. It is a sweet consolation to learn that
there are still 500,000 litres of absynthe In the
cellars, which did not explode Pius the Ninth’s
will has given rise to a Belgian lawsuit. A Baron
Coulmont of Dinant had left Pius a bequest of
half a million francs, conditionally on the estab-
lishment of a nuns’ hospice in his commune.
After the death of the PopB and the Baron a
quarrel arose between the legal heirs of the latter
and the Pope’s executors, and the legacy was pro-
visionally placed in the Caisse de deposite. The
commune, which has been vainly hungering for
the expected hospice, is suing the Baron’s heirs,
and the latter are “taking the law ” on Plo Nono’s
executors—By and tricycles are now much used
in European capitals in paying rounds of visits.
A happy pair from Vienna recently made their
wedding tour through Italy on a tricycle....
The Senate of the Canton Basle has just sanc-
tioned a law, providing for the gratuitous inter-
ment of all classes of the population. What a
rush there will be to Basle when this gets spread
about!—ln the days of Cromwell many of the
Puritans were so anxious to secure themselves
against the charge of countenancing monarchy
that they altered the second petition in the Lord’s
Prayer to “Thy commonwealth come.”....He:
“ Most amiable of women, I lament the loss of your
husband, who was taken from you so suddenly.”
She: “Ahl yes; and I am not long for this
world myself I” He: “Indeed I That would be
first Instance of your wanting to go his way.”...,
CRICKET AND WATER—A THUMB-NAIL SKETCH.
Mother threatens naughty Jack to lock him up in
the fowl-house. “ Never mind,” says he, “ I give
you fair warning; you don't get no eggs out of
me’’....Teacher: “‘What is mine is thine also.’
Who uttered that beautiful sentiment ?” Scholar:
“ Some fellow who had nothiag.”
The late Coburg tragedy furnishes a
warning to husbands. Deprive a woman of decent
clothing, and she usually takes to drink or to
religion—sometimes both. When her religion
takes the melancholy form, she either kills the
baby, hangs herself In the fowl-house, or else
beats the old man’s brains out with the coal-axe
while he is asleep. This poor Coburg woman,
having “ got religion,” and heing off her head,
took the head ofif her daughter. Now, if her hus-
band had only provided her with a pair of high-leg
boots, and a white hat with a curly feather all
round it, she would have been able to sit out the
service at ehuroh without hearing a word that
was said. Instead of that, as her own garments
were notoriously dowdy, she wore her brain out
with envy, and then naturally enough got a bad
attack of religion, culminating in murder. Hus-
bands, beware 1
The Severed Hand mystery still puazles
the wits of N.Z. detectives. Mr. Arthur Ho warde,
whose clothes were found on Sumner Beach and
whose widow went into mourning and demanded
£24QO from the Insurance companies, has been dis-
covered in the flesh and in disguise at Petoni near
Wellington, where he was arrested and remanded
to Christchurch. Mrs. Howards was also arrested
together with two brothers named Godfrey, who
discovered the severed hand on the beach. One
of the Godfreys was an attendant at a lunatic
asylum, and it was thought the hand might have
been taken from the body of a patient who had
reoently died. The corpse, however, on being
exhumed, was found to be double-fisted and
intact. Then the detectives scented some-
thing farther afield. An old lady had shuffled
off at Masterton, in the North Island, where it was
known Howarde had been at the time. Her rela-
tives, on being shown a photo, of the hand,
thought it resembled the weapon she used to
slipper them with in their early dqys, Th© under-
taker remembered thas some stranger had
hovered about the scene op funeral day. The
cexton was certain some one had been uslDg a
spade about her grave after he had done with it.
The old lady consequently was resurrected, but
found to be all there—nothing mlssiDg—much to
the disgust |of the corpse-diggers. And now the
N.Z. detectives want very much to know who to
dig up next. Any fresh-looking corpse which
finds Itself minus a hand will be handsomely re-
warded on applying personally at the nearest
police office In N.Z. N.Z. papers please copy.
Robert Browning, D.C.L.
Robert Browning, poet and .dramatist, whose
writings are less read than their merits deserve,
was born at Camberwell, Surrey, England, and
completed his education at the University of Lon-
don. In 1835, when he was but 23, he published
“ Pauline ” and “ Paracelsus,” poems which did
not gain him very much celebrity; nor was his
“Strafford,” produced on a London stage, in 1837,
much more successful; and It was not until the
publication of the book of dramatic and lyrie
poems, to which he gave the name of “ Bells and
Pomegranates,” in 1842, that his power and origin-
ality of mind earned anything like a fair measure
of appreciation. Since that time he has been pro-
lific of poetry, very few years having passed with-
out thel presentation of a volume from his
pen. His lack of popularity may perhaps he
chiefly ascribed to the fact that many of his poems
are enigmatical and involved beyond the power
of comprehension, and the student, baffled in the
study of these, disdains to notice or read the
many beautiful poems whioh abound lu his
volumes. Mr. Browning was married in 1846 tos
Miss Elizabeth Barrett, who retained her surname
with the addition of his, hut she died in 1861. Mr.
Browning is a devoted student of music and paint-
ing, and deeply read in the science of each of
these arts. He is also an accomplished linguist,
and speaks several of the modern as well as the
dead languages with scholarly fluency.
A story about an Australian journalist is
going the rounds of London papers. It must sur-
prise the home journalists, and all journalists,
to read the stuff thus printed and circulated. It
is that this colonial newspaper man has his clothes
made by London tailors and sent out three suits
at a time 1 Also that the last consignment arrived
in Australia with only one waistcoat left in the
box. Also that said j ournalist of the three suits
is on a Protectionist paper, and writes strongly on
protecting colonial industry. We have inquired
Into the truth of this story, and find that the
journalist’s brother is a tailor who should remit
some money left the pair by a deceased relative.
Not believing in “ parting ” he adopted the clothes
dodge. It is thought that the Custom House
officials may explain about the short delivery
made. The temptation offered by three suitsof
London-made clothes would be very strong to
many young men in the Civil Service. Robbing a
i journalist would be but as a pleasant revenge with
most of them.
Thus the Echo “ Poets get Jess con-
sideration than any other artists, and the term is
infinitely more deserved by them than any other
section of the community to which it is ordinarily
applied. Mr. P. J. Holdsworth certainly deserved
a warmer recognition of the merits of his ode than
he got.” We do not purpose to find fault with
either the truth or literary merit of this clipping;
we merely use it to point out the inconsistence of
the paper from which it was taken. Previous to
the appearance of this a letter appeared in the
Echo signed “Dryden Keats Tupper,” evidently
intended as a satire on the “ Welcome Ode,” and
giving P. J. H. some nasty jars. After doing
all that was possible in an anonymous way pre-
vious to the performance, to prevent people
applauding the Ode, after it is over the Echo
rushes forward to express its regret that the poet
did not receive the recognition due to his talent
and his labour. This is on a footing with the con-
sistency of a man who, after wilfully knocking a
helpless stranger down, rushes to pick him upland
brushing the dust from his garments, proceeds to
sympathise with him over his black eye.
One of Lord Tennyson’s last efforts is a
poem in Irish dialect. In his old and decorated
age, the Laureate has developed a versatility of
whioh fie has so far been unsuspected, The story
is founded on a thin old romance of the 3allina.
sloe bogs, in which Danny O’Roon, going home
charged with whisky and sentimentality, steps
into the hog and disappears from the vulgar gaze
for forty years. At the expiration of that period
some peat-diggers gouge out the “ corp,” which is
identified by Molly Magee, his first and only love.
The jury subsequently decided that Danny came
to bis death by falling off a horse, and Molly, at
the conclusion of the inquest, falls dead aorosa the
waterlogged body of Danny. The grave ig digged
deep enough to hold both. Danny and Molly are
“ planted,” to blossom two rosea on a single stem
in the floriculture of the future. There is a good
deal of poetical license taken by the bard, who has
gone to much trouble to perpetrate Irishisms,
which in the thirteenth verse are abundant.—
“Och, Molly, we thought, machree, ye would start
back agin into life,
Whin we laid yez, aich be aich, at yer wake like
husband and wife.
Sorra the dhry eye thin but was wet for the frinds
that was gone I
Sorra the silent throat but we hard it cryin’
‘OchoneT
An’ Shamus O’Shea that has now ten childer,
handsome an’ tall,
Him an’ his childer wor keenin’ as if he had lost
thim all.
“Thin his Eiverenee buried thim both in wan grave
be the dead boor-tree,
The young man Danny O’Roon wid his ould
woman, Molly Magee.”
Shamus O’Shea was the faithful lover who waited
long years for Molly and didn’t get her. Tiring of
his bootless pursuit he wedded another, and pre-
sented 10 taxpayers or landlord extinguishers to
the State. The poem is Tennysonian. Let us
warble five verses in a Tennysonian strain—
Young Dinnis Molloy had a hand like a fut, and
an eye of blue,
And a mouth like; a cut in a “Murphy,” ’twas
slightly ashkew;
He was bowed in his legs, and club-futted in both
av his feet,
But in other rishpiefs he was dacent enough,
troth Dinny was shweet.
And Kitty, the girl that he loved, she was livin
below at the mill,
Where her father brew’d potheen (pure whisky)
in a quiet, shnug little still,
And often they shwallowed the mixhture, and
dhrank till the morn—
Yor Dinny was happy near Kitty, though she
looked on him wid scorn.
Wan evenin’ when Dinny was dhrinkin’, and
singin’ a song av the Green,
His Molly popped into the wurrum a beaker of
kerosene,
And Dinny dhrank deep of the mixhture, and
shkipped to the shore.
Where St. Patrick, wid angels and whisky, now
dwells evermore.
Then Molly shlipped close to his whiskers a bit iv
a lucifer match,
And held the flame there till the light on the
shpirit could catch;
Wihin his bright soul had gone to St. Patrick, and
his body was duly cremated,
Molly shwept all the ashes to Giendalough’s edge
and forthwith emigrated.
And often she laughed in her self-imposed exile
at Dinny Molloy’s disappearance;
And smiled when she thought of the plan she’d
adopted to give him his clearance.
But her laugh was as loud as the howl of an ill-
advised crowd’s insurrection,
Whin she thought of the throuble they’d have wid
his case at the Restriction.
C. W. EGBERTS
Slngla Bottlo Department*
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only 9s.
Small Bottle, , [ts.Bd.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINK?
FOB INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
11. 6d« per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
Is. per Bottle
SUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN—-IN FLASKS,
ls#9d. each,
The Key Brand, and Henkejs Prize Medal Brand,
In stone bottles and square bottles,
LARGIST 810.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY,
OLD AND HOLLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts,
G. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets,
■TDKBT.


Personal
Items
A. Melbourne paper speaks of the poems
of “Edmund Goose.” This is a nice cnmp>lment
to Edmund Gosse, one of the most oharmiag ot
the minor poets of the day and a better writer ot
Erench vilanelles and chants royaux than even
Austin Dobson. Such is fame 1
Eliza Armstrong now disappears from
history. Funds have been raised ana invested for
her, so that when she comes of age a good dowry
will fall to her. In the meantime, Mr Poland has
presented her with a Bible and prayer-oook and
entered beras a pup 1 at Princess Louise’s Home,
W*nste d Her dad has received the gift of a pair
of sweeping crushes.
Mr. James Bayne, the old editor of the
Overland Mail—that journalistic link between
the greater and the less Dritaffi—died-last month.
He was a Scotchman, but found his way to Lon-
don when a lad. He was not an originator, but
possessed a firm grip ot facts. His knowledge of
colonial affairs was remarkable for fulness and
accuracy, although he never visited colonial
shores.
Charles Robin, the noted French biologist
and free-thinker, and the author of several stin-
dard works on political economy, is dead. He had
expressly stipulated for a secular funeral in his
will- but his “serious ” relations had him buried
with all the ceremonies of the Church. Talk of
the liberty of the subject after that. A man can t
even go to Blazes after his own fashion, nowa-
days, hut some officious busybody, with the best
intentions, persists in franking his carcase to the
wrong address.
The Rev. James Mirams, who died last
week at South Melbourne, was a practical as well
as theoretical philanthropist, ana leaves monu-
ments of his labours behind him in the Blind
Asylum and Eye and Ear Hospital, both of which
institutions own him as an active promoter. Mr.
Mirams was 77 years of age at his death. His
sons have been remarkably successful men. all
being now in good positions. One of them is
“Little” Mirams. the Victorian Liberal. It is
rarely that parson’s children turn out well. L sually
it seems like the height of assuranceforapreacher
to instruct his flock in the art of training children
in the way they should go. Mr. Mirams could
do this properly and consistently.
Lord Tollemache is in his 80th year and is
a Tory of the l’ories. He is, however, a living
proof that a man may be better than the creed,
political or religious, which he professes. Lord
Tollemache owns 40 000 acres of land in Cheshire.
Years Pgo he divided it into farms, the largest npt
over 200 acres. Upon tffise he spent £148.000 in
bui ding farm houses He built besides 200 cot
tages for labourer . He also built half a dozen
schools, a. notable thing arose in connection with
the schools. The farmers declined to send their
children to schools frequented by labourers’ chil-
dren Lord Tollemache solved the difficulty by
sending bis own sons to the schools for two years.
The old man is still hale, and is now quite jubilant
that his party is in power, for he believes that
with a Tory Government England will become a
Paradise.
Grisi and Mario were the great singers by
whom our fathers swore. Like Patti and Nicolini,
they had allied themselves for what the French
call “convenience.” Borne little Grisettes or
Marionettes were the net, or gross, result of this
nartnership. Both of the great singers have now
Massed away to where, if we understand heavenly
occupations, their singing will elevate them much
above the crowd less musically endowed. Their
souls will not, therefore, be vexed, as they would
have been here below, by what has happened to
their eldest born. This sweet child of song spends
most of her time in swindling. She has just re-
ceived a sentence of a year’s imprisonment on
some 40 charges of embezzlement brought against
Her If “one sad loisel soils a name tor aye.” as
Bvron sings, then what amount of soiling must
not 40 “ loisels ” do for the name of one who does
them.
The evil results of a parcel of “well
brought up ” young women herding together and
devoting themselves to their prayer books is
strikingly illustrated in the nauseous Hampton
tragedy ” Except that it was clothed in a garb of
riletv their behaviour was very similar to that of
certain old maids in “ Don Juan,” who shut them-
ielves UP in a church (if we remember rightly)
when the city was attacked. The Hampton fe-
males indulged in very similar speculations. It is
nrsitivoly sickening to read of girls rising from
their knees with the conviction that either they
would have to allow themselves to be led astray or
they must die.” And it was the poor little child of
eight years of age, by the bye, who decided that
thev ought to die The elder girls prayed earn-
ostiv and for a time no answer seemed to come.
Now’they are persuaded t hat they are not to die.
But how about the alternative?
After Mrs. Langtry’s published state-
ment that Bhe made her husband an annual allow-
ance “ not to molest her,” we may be pardoned
for coughing slightly over a little incident that
occurred at Belfast. When the “Lily” was paying
bSte professional visit to Belfast, the “boys ”
lowered a big basket of ferns and flowers from the
trallerv This delicate expression of esteem so
touched the heart of the “Lily” that she forwarded
£ the students a large portrait of herself (she has
thousands) and a letter of grateful thanks, telling
+h2m that they had made her “ very proud of
the wife of a Belfast man.” Pheugh! But
whnf can the students do with that beautiful
uicture? They can hardly hang it up in one of the
fcnture rooms, we have it. Why not raffle it
themselves at 10a. a member, and send the
proceeds tothat lucky Belfast man-Mr. Langtry.
The letter ought to realise a handsome sum by the
same device.
Mr Ebenezer Fox, for many years secre-
te.™ to the New Zealand Cabinet, died lately at
w nmVfnn (N Z.) Mr. Fox started life as a com-
™sitor k but soon became a reporter aDd journalist.
R°„ fulfilled several engagements In London, and
f7,a»pnuently for several years occupied the post
chief reporter of the Manchester Guardian,
which period he reported many of the
dUr ochcs of Messrs. Bright and Cobaen, and
B ?h*r eminent men Delicate health sent him to
*i th =tr*lU and New Zealand In 1862 he became a
on the OTAGO Daily limes, Dunedin,
re ’rufr t Vogel (now sir Julius), who was then
under Mr When Vogel joined
Fox Ministry as Colonial Treasurer, Mr.
th’ > „ ,v nT became his private secretary, and
t appointed icontidential clerk and
lu 18 ‘?„rv to the Treasury, which position he held
vfp t'othe time of bis death. Mr. Fox lived and
died a bachelor.
The wealthy Baring family is now con-
hv marriage with our gracious Queen, for
nected by marriag Augustus Fiiz-George,
we theDuaeot Cambridgo, has hitched
R maelf to the youngest daughter of Mr. W
himseii l o . f } lady s second matri-
Bari choice and the “ d“?ar departed ” must feel
moi ial cn ,' he contemplates his blue-
R?Td successor from his little man,ion in the
Moo' l the fact of 'feor.,o Augusms being
skies, h r rtof 8 * f , ma ko him any the less
th ° 8 Lu«IQ tO Victoria. At any rate, he is
asecondcou” .” man who married his mother,
also the son o . . )ok^n t 0 the contrary That
Scaudal has neve spok whl(jh tho g aeen has
atedfastly refused to recognise, is the one incident
B. «be
satisfaction of knowing that his children can
swear to their father. Now, the late Alfonso 01
Spain wasn’t a morganatic son. Oh, dear no I
But he couldn’t pick out his governor in half-a-
dozen tries.
Now that Wendel Phillips has “stepped
out,’’ the “wretched Press” is raking up the
usual collection of anecdotes illustrative 01 his
sound sense and keen, sarcastic wit. The bulk or
them are probably ims, but true or not, the toi-
lowing tale is good. Phillips was trotting over to
the New York Central one day, when a rather
pompous, well-fed looking clergyman approached
him and asked, “Sir, what is your aim in life r
To which the senator bluntly replied: lo bene-
fit the negro.” “ Ah,” returned the Gospel sharp,
“well, why don’t you go down South and doit f
“ That’s worth thinking about,” answered Phillips,
as if the thought had never struck him before;
“ but I notioe you wear a rather white necktie,
therefore, I would like to ask what is jyour parti-
cular aim in life.” “To save souls from hell, my
friend,” groaned the paruon. “ Is that so, re-
torted Phillips; “then, why don’t you go down to
hell and do it ?” This closed the conversation.
Mr. Streeter, of old Bond-street and High
Holborn, jeweller, is doing a large trade in Aus-
tralian produc 3. And whom Mr acreeter is may
as well be explained. He has succeeded to the
jewellery business of Mr. Harry Emanuel, who
succeeded to that of Hunt and Roskell. Mr.
Emanuel is now, under the French title ot a Count,
a resident of Paris, retired from trade and doing
the lofty. Mr. Streeter’s s ml is in trade and noth-
ing else. He sends his sons out to put £lO 0.0 into
the Australian pearl-fishing business. The interior
of these pearl-shells produces that mother-of-
pearl” which has quite eclipsed ivory lor kmle-
handles and other ornamental work. Mr. btreeter s
pearl-shell fishings are on the coasts of Western
and Northern Australia, whence he receives many
tons monthly. The pearls reach him per mail
steamers in registered packages. ... hese salt-water
diggings are as profitable to him as any gold or
silver ones and a little more so than many ot tnose
ventures.
Metzger, the world-famed Hutch doctor,
who is now patching up the corporeal system of
Pope Leo XIH., began life, like the “frind av
Wiatworth an* as a butchers boy, and
the bulk of bis medic tl acquirements seem to
have been gathered almost entirely by personal
observation in the shambles which gave him his
marvellous acquaintance with the various muscles.
He was 40 years ot age before he seriously took
to study, but he had no trouble in rapidly rushing
to the front rank of the medical profession. 1 wo
years ago he had the Empress of Austria, the
Queen of Sweden, and our own Mr. Wales under
his care, and as Alfred would say, “gave pleasure
to all.” As a rule, his patients have to visit him,
but in the case of the Pope the mountain went to
Mahomet. Tne tranformation from a butcher to
a doctor is rather suggestive, aud recalls Martial s
pithy epigram—
“ Doctor Diaulus is an undertaker made,
The name is changed, ’tis true, tut not tho
trade.”
Dr. J. Marmaduke Rose, M,L.A. for
North Melbourne, was at one time a blacksmith,
aud is now a medico. But no is somethinor more
he is a lay pieacher and an intensely religious man.
Not long since we went to bis Church in Hcxtham
(Vic.) and heard Dr. Rose's pulpit address. When
we hear 1 him we had no difficulty in understand-
ing why the Hothamites sent him to I arliament.
Down South all good holv men make their way
into the Legislature. Owing to the confused state
of political parties in Vietoria just now, Dr. Rose
thinks he ought to be to the front, and the other
day ho called a meeting to enunciate a new
Liberal policy. One of the planks ot his platform
was “ Loyalty to the Crown and Imperial unity.
The Chairman (Mr. .T. W. Brown) proposed to add
"That the colony shoo'd have the right to elect
its own Governors.” Tnis was not relished by Dr.
Rose’s pßalm-singing crowd, but as there were
evidently some of the audience in tavour of it,
Dr. Rose, in order io humour them, suggested
tnat they should “ only ask for the right to nomi-
nate a Governor, subject to the Queen s.aoproval.
However, the proposal was negatived. Wnat sur-
prises us most is that men of the Rose stamp
should get into Parliament under the guise of
Liberals.
The report of the International Committee
in Nice upon the disgraceful gambling hell of
Monte Carlo, which he s just been issued, is to be
made the ground of a collective diplomatic action
against the protector of that institution, Prince
Charles 111. of Monaco. Tnis important pamphlet
gives a documentary catalogue of a'l the suicides
whicti have taken place in Monte Carlo from loi
to 1885. The total number of persons who have
destroyed themselves in consequence of tneir
losses at his Princely Highness's gaming-tables is
1820—that is to say, tnere have been nearly as
many suicides as the Prince has subjects. 1c wifi
be remembered by our readers that this Commis-
sion of Inquiry was inaugurated in direct conse-
uuence ot the miserable death of Prince Leopold,
due to the over-excitement of an unlucky,bout at
the tables at Monaco. It is a common saying in
England that railway accidents will never cease
Hu a director is killed by one. Similarly, it needed
the almost suicide of a royal prince to create a
movement against the Monte Carlo gambling hell,
1820 persons of common ciay had been immolated
by that pandemonium, when the prince went there
to adfiLto the ecldb and fashion of the place by his
“pJMbige and presence.”
M?;¥)uncan Gillies, the Victorian Premier
thatisto be, made a terrific speech to his con-
stituents the other day. We forget hew many
columns long the report of it in the paper was, nut
it was msmy. He is not a man ot numour-at least
he is not conscious of it. In the course of the
whole speech he only said one thing that railed a
smile uiioq the faces of his audience. And that
smite was a sarcastic one * So tar, said he,
speaking of the recent appointment of Mr.
Kerford as a Judge of the Supreme Court, as
Mr. Kerford’s qualifications as a lawyer are con-
cerned, I am not a judge, hut in regard to his
other qualifications I venture to say that few men
possess them to a greater degree than Mr. J ustice
Kerford.” This is as good as the B«yijg ot that old
English Attorney-General, who, on being asked
whv he had appointed a certain gentleman to a
iudgeßhip, knowing the gentleman in question
knew nothing of law, replied: “ He may not know
much of law, but, by Jove! sir, he s a dashed fine
fellow ” We should like to know what the other
Qualifications ” which Mr. Gillies alluded to as
oeing possessed by Mr. Kerferd in such an amaz-
ing degree really are. Are they billiard playing
or whist ? draw-pokc-r or ju dancing ? Mr. Gil-
lies is an advocate of temperance, or we would
hazard a guess that one of the qualifications he
most admired in Mr. Kerferd was his ability to
pass a judgment on tne merits of beer.
Among the items of interest in Melbourne
chit-chat is the announcement of the approaching
marriage of Mr. Murray Ross to a daughter of Mr.
Graham Berry. It is fashionable just now tor ois-
naritv in yeats to distinguish matrimonial
alliances It is nothing, toereiore, out ot the
common that Mr. Murray Ross Is of the age of his
intended bride’s father. A man is onlv as old as
he feels, and Mr. Roes in au energetic man ot the
uladßtone type. For long years ha has battled
with adversity in his Rosstown Estate. llistwe»ty
odd years managership of the Globe insurance
Company furuißhed the means for purchase of the
thousand acres to which this name Is given. I hen
followed hts endeavours to start there tbo teat-
root sugar manufacture wnh a branch railway
from the works to the Government line. ; lhat
purse of public men—the want of pence, com-
pelled his mortgaging the estate, t olio wed shortly
py a sharp-practice sale made by the mortgagees.
This sale was sot aside by the Court, and the pro-
perty restored to Mr. Ross. Sugar manufacture
hung lire from the groat tall in the price ot the
article, and the estate—all but 200 ceres—had to be
sold to a syndicate at a third of what it would
fetch now. The Government have promised to
take tho unfinished railway elf Mr. Ross s bancs,
and when that is done—if cone at all—fortune may
smllaBgain upon the well-deserved efforts of this
brnve struggle? and well-deserving old colonist.
Mr. Alexander Lawrence, the speculative
clerk who borrowed £9OOO from the City of Mel-
bourne Bink without—as Mr. Coombe, in silver
King.” would, have said —“ mention-on-ing of it,
has taken the opportunity to correct certain mis-
statements about himself. A Herald reporter
was the recipient of Mr. Lawrence’s confidence.
It appears that someone insinuated that he drank
and lost money on horse-races. Mr. L., with par-
donable pride, told the Herald man that suoh
a statement was wholly untrue. He had not been
absent a single day through drink, and, as for his
turf investments, though modest in the extreme,
they had positively proved remunerative rather
than otherwise. Mr. Lawrenc?, in fact, had com-
mitted no “ irregularity ” except in the little mat-
ter of the £9OOO. And. while admitting this short-
coming, Mr. Lawrence, in a true spirit ot mag-
nanimity, stated that he had no wish to m any
way reflect upon the management of the bank.
It is really pleasiDg to find a gentleman who ap-
propriates a handsome sum of money so averse
to laying any blame upon his too confiding em-
ployers. The manager, Mr. Lawrence evidently
considers, suffers quite enough in reflecting upon
the business himself. And really it does seem
strange that a very moderately salaried bank clerk
can carry on a disastrous gambliog in mining
shares for two years and a-half without his pecca-
dilloes coming to the ears of some of his many
*• bosses.” How discreet the brokers must have
been!
Somewhere or another wehave read about
an aged female whose one hope in life was that
she might aie on her own bed. Now, old James
Hockey, of Adelaide, wasn’t one of that sort, lie
thought of the hereafter. Where he died was ol
small moment to James, so long as he had the
price of a good substantial tombstone on his per-
son at the time of his decease. When this poor old
boy was taken to the hospital in a starving condi-
tion, they discovered £9O in his belt. On being
asked why he didn t purchase corn and wine and
oil with his £9O, James faintly explained that he
was saving it all for tombstones for self and two
brothers. How it comes about that he hasn t
fixed up the marble crosses over his brethren is
not quite clear. Perhaps thev’re not dead yet.
No matter—we will not jeer at James. His ambi-
tion to repose beneath a good tombstone proves
him to possess the soul of a C.M.Gf. But then,
C.M.G.s never require to starve themselves for
the sake of their monuments, but usually go off
in a full habit of body. If James persists in keep-
ing himself in low condition, he’ll find his mistake
out when the trumpet sounds. Let us warn him:—
Good James, maybe you think it brave
To starve yourself to feed your grave;
But, on the awful day of Doom,
When you are summoned from that tomb,
And have to hump it on your back,
You’ll want for strength, and cry, alack I
And, as you bear that stone to Peter,
You’ll wish you'd been a larger eater.
Mr. Deakin is a fortunate young man.
Fourteen years ago we met him, as a precocious
youth, attending Sunday evening seances at Dr.
Mother wells. He was then an enthusiastic spiritu-
alist, and ready to correspond with any one upon
the subject. Spiritism, then led by Mr. James
Smith, was the fashionable “craze” of the day_
The late Mr. Lamont of Staweil gave his time and
large fortune to its encouragement. Mrs. Jackson
and Mr. Ebenezer Macgeorge so fascinated him
that he left £40,000 to the latter by a will which
his relatives failed to upmt. Mr. Macgeorge and
Mrs. Jackson retired from Melbourne on this
legacy, an i live now in Europe—bothering them-
selves very little, it is likely, about spiritualism.
Mr. Deakin went to the bar but has never held a
brief- spiritualism made him acquainted with
Mr Syme of the Age, who helped him into Parlia-
ment for West Bourke. in the election for which
he twice defeated sir Bryan O’Loghlen. He then
married the daughter of that wealthy distiller
and earnest spiritualist, Mr. Hugh Junor Brown.
“ Canniness.” as the Scotch call it, has been Mr.
Deakin's chief characteristic. He has made every-
thing a stepping stone to his own advancement.
He made the irrigation question last year an op-
portunity for an American tour at Government
1 expense, with the.addendum of a secretary to write
an account of it. He is now nominated for Chief
Secretary in Graham Berry s place, with Mr. Gillies
as premier. Old politicians like Mirams* Patter-
son, Major Smith, and half-a-dozen others, Btare
with surprise at what they call “ the hoy’s suc-
ceßB.,,
It is not generally known that ordination
has a potent influence in modifying the ordinary
symptoms of intoxication. The Jtiev. J. J. Band,
vicar of Chieveley, in Berkshire, was charged
before the Christ Church Cathedral chapter of
Oxford, the Bishop of Oxford presiding, with bav-
in# been drunk on two occasions—once while con-
ducting service and delivering the Communion.
In support of the first Mr. Kichard Fisher, church-
warden of Winterbourne; Mr. J. Stuart Hutton,
resident house physician at St. Thomas s Hospital,
who was visiting at Winterbourne last Christmas;
Mr. Clifford, tutor; Mr. John Hatton, parish clerk,
and other parishioners gave evidence to the effect
that on Christmas morning defendant was under
the influence of liquor and unable to walk steadily
ana firmly. He omitted to announoe a hymn
umaky sung at the beginning of the service. He
read a wrong Psalm. He read the Litany, which
was unusual on Christmas Day, and said, liaise
up Satan under our feet,” instead of ‘ Cast down
Satan ” He also made other mistakes m the
service. His expression was fooiish, like that of
a person ini oxicated; his voipe was husky, aud it
was difficult to understand what he said.
He stuttered, repeated many words, and omitted
the latter part of others. He gave out in
church that there would he Communion, but no
sermoD, However, as defendant began reading
the offertory sentences, the congregation com-
menced quitting the church, and no one remained
to commUDicate. Defendant dropped his spec-
tacles and left them behind, put on an overcoat
over his cassock, and drove to his house at Chie-
velev The Kev. E. C. Powys, one of the curates
of tue parish, and Mr. William Fisher, of Bourne-
mouth; formerly a resident at Chieveley, gave
evidence as to the defendant’s drunkenness in the
street at Chieveley on the 15th of Aprii. Mr.
Fisher flatly relused to shake hands with the
defendant owiDg to his condition. Defendant
walked unsteadily, and had difficulty in getting
through his vicarage gate. The result was an
example of “sticking to a brother judge, which
would have delighted the heart of Sir William
Manning. The Bishop pronounced the second
charge not proved, and declared the first one
“ not inconsistent with the plea that such appear-
ances were due to illness. He, therefore, con-
cluded it to be his duty to dismiss this charge also.
Thus do the righteous triumph over the uDgodly.
We’d sooner be a parson charged before a Bishop
with drunkenness than a labourer before a Sydney
Stipendiary. On similar evidence a Sydney lumper
would getfive bob or the option.”
Is it in a mood complimentary or vein
satirical that Captain Everill has been dubbed the
Australian Stanley ? Let us sum up the achieve-
ments of the two explorers. Stanley went in
search of Livingstone, marching from Zanzibar to
Diiii with a few Arabs and blackfeilows, losiog
hm only two white companions by death on the
road. Oftentimes he was attacked with fever and
had to cure himself as best he might. His mon
suffered from typuoid lever, Bmall-pox, and dysen-
try. They deserted him, they threatened him;
they were often on the brink of starvation; in
danger of their lives by ferocious tribes of blood-
thirsty cannibals, and yet Stan ley was not deterred
nor tempted to turn back from the work allotted
to him He found Livingstone, and a few years
afterwards he went back to Africa to complete
the work of the great explorer. He travelled this
time across the Continent; his three white com-
panions met their late on the road, and he wj.s
left as before with his half-civilised paganzis to
penetrate an unknown terntoiy, a feat which he
successfully accomplished in two years, alter a
toileome journey by land and water, exposed to
such perils aud hardships of which the ceadly
fever, the implacable hostility of the cannibal
tribes tbrougu whose provinces he passed, the
dangers of the mivhty cataracts and more
treacherous rapids which it was necessary
for him to pass, and the despondent bear-
ing of his followers were the most formidable
of ttao troubles he had to combat and ovorcome.
In addition to all the worry and oare thrown upon
his shoulders as lender of this expedition, he was
careful ia examining' and taking note of the
botany and geology of the country through which
he passed, makiDg regular meteorological observa-
tions, and his diary was kept with such scrupulous
minuteness that very little transcription was
necessary before it was placed in the hands of the
publishers. Captain Bverill was away a few
months, he was attended by a doctor, by scientific
observers ana collectors, and experienced bush-
men. The party brought back with them a heap
of what are vulgarly known as “ curios,” and each
member of the expedition kept a diary, which are
to be carefully collated and cooked up by a clever
editor. Of course men like Stanley are not to be
met with twice in a half century. Buoyancy of
temperament and a strength of purpose which
nothing less powerful than death can dismay or
turn back from the work to be achieved are the
pre-eminent characteristics required in the man
who will achieve the proud distinction of crossing
New Guinea from the Gulf of Papua to its
northern coast.
Here are some traits of Garibaldi— the
only true proved unselfish patriot or modern days,
not even excepting Plain Bill, Bshind-the-Curtain-
Dan, or Becret-De3patch-Henniker-Heaton. We
extract from a notice, by Jessie Taylor, in Ouh
Corner, an English periodical, to which Mrs.
Besant and Charles Bradlaugh are also contribu-
tors: —“ At Caprera, Garibaldi spentseveral happy,
peaceful years, living in a small white house,
almost hidden by massive rocks of granite. Be-
hind the house was a garden, where Garibaldi de-
lighted to work with hoe and spade. ‘ Planting
trees and watchiDg their growth,’ he once saia,
* seems to me to be true happiness. Peace, after
which the soul hungers—that peace which men
fondly long for in a world to come-I can only
eDjoy here, far from the bustle and noise of towns ’
He had a strange fancy about flowers and vege-
tables, imagining they could in some dim fashion
suffer and rejoice after the manner of animals.
‘ How happy,’ ne said once to a friend, ‘I feel in
Fontamecia (the name of his vineyarj) because I
can prop the plants laid low by the wind, tie the
weak to a stick, bind up the wounds of those
whose branches have been broken, and sprinkle
sulphur over those attacked by the mildew.’ Once,
talking with a friend about his vines, he
compared the oidium or vine-disease to the
temporal power of the Pope ; * only,’ he
added, with a sigh, ‘the ruin caused ‘by
one lasts for centuries, the other for years.’
Everyone in that house loved him, and, as for his
pretty daughter, Teresina, she idolised him, loving
him, perhaps, all the more ardently because she
bad lost her mother- beautiful, heroic Anita As
for Garibaldi himself, he passed a great part of
his day in reading books of history, philosophy,
and poetry. He also read the papers daily, ana
wrote his own life aid adventures up to the fall of
Rome. From time to time one of his former lieu-
tenants or comrades-in-arms would pay him a visit
at Caprera, and talk with him over dangers shared
and battles fought together. With such a friend
Garabaldi loved to pace up and down his garden
or vineyard talking of all the happy changes that
bad been effected in the condition of Italy of late
years, and speculating as to all the happiness that
might yet be won, not only for Italy, but for all
the world, if men would but strive for it as they
ought. The priests he believed to be great
enemies of Italian liberty, because they kept the
people in ignorance and taught them superstitions
that debased their reason. He had indeed a reli-
gion of his own—that of doing good and of striv-
ing to bring joy and well-being on the earth. He
believed with Shelly and others tnat Ignorance,
poverty, crime, disease, tyranny, and all things
foul and evil, might in time be swept oil
the facs of the earth if men and women
would but work courageously and earnestly
at their destruction. Holding such a faith
as this, there is little wonder that he, tbe
general, the daring genius of so many victories,
should have grown at last to look on war as a
hateful thing, for he felt that all men, even of
different nationalities, ought to love and help one
anotber as brothers, instead of shedding each
other’s blood like wild beasts. In the year 1870,
when the Prussian army had invaded France, he
fought for a while in aid of tbe French Republic.
But the waste of human life that he saw then, the
spectacle of men fighting, not as bis own men had
fought, for their country's liberty, but merely to
satisfy the greed and revenge of their rulers, all
this helped to disgust him with war; and he wrote
to the English newspapers some of the most beau-
tiful, the most thoughtful, letters that have ever
been penned on the subject of peace. War, he
urged, was a survival from barbarous ages, a pur-
suit unfit for civilised men. When two nations
quarrel, why, he argued, should numan blood be
shed? Why could not the leading nations of
Europe send delegates to some free city—say,
Nice, and settle ttie dispute by talking matters
over calmly and thoughtfully ? He hoped that
before very long the folly «nd wickedness of war
will be abolisned, only to be remembered by the
men of coming years as one of the horrors of a
bygone age.”
BEALE & COMPANY
City Show Rooms,
386 and 612 GEORGE STREET,
12 CENTRAL MARKETS,
151 OXFORD STREET
AGENTS and TRAVELLERS in EVERY
COUNTRY TOWN.
Address Letters of Inquiry—
-371a Pitt-street, Sydney.
THE LATEST TRIUMPH of SEWING MACHINE
MECHANICS,
The “BEALE"
HIGH-ARM
PATENT SEWING MACHINES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THB
Wertheim Sewing machine,
BEALE.
The “ Hapsburg” Pianos.
SOLE IMPORTERS,
BEALE AND COMPANY.
THE “HAYDN” ORGANS
AND
HARMONIUMS.
Bole Importers
BEALE AND COMPANY.
FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
and
FULL INFORMATION,
Address
ANY LOCAL AGENT OR TRAVELLER;
BEALE & COMPANY
Sydney.


PEPPER AND SALT.
It would take a ’cute lawyer to get on
the blind aide of a Bombala (N.8.W.) jury. Lately
a man down there, who had kmg been afflicted
with disease of the heart, and was also subject to
fainting fits, fell off his horse and died without
any waste of time. The facts were duly sworn to,
and this was the verdict:—“ The said John Bul-
garies, on the 3rd day of January, 1886, being a
person subject to fits, was gently riding on a cer-
tain horse on a certain public road called the
Native Dog Hill road, in the county of Wellesley;
and being so riding as aforesaid, it so happened
that the said John Bulgaries was then suddenly
seized with a fit, and by reason of the violence
thereof the said John Bulgaries then fell from the
back of the said horse to and against the ground
of the said public road, and then shortly died.
And so the jurors aforesaid do say that the said
John Bulgaries, by the violence of the fits afore-
said, and in the manner and means aforesaid, came
by his death, and not otherwise.” It is not often
that a man earns the compliment of so elegant a
verdict as that. But we notice two or three slight
omissions. The verdict, for instance, omits to
state that the said John Bulgaries was sitting on
a certain saddle, and holding a certain bridle, and
that the said horse was of iron-grey in certain
colour, reared a certain poddy by John Smith and
out of a certain Zetland mare. Nor is it stated
whether the said J.B. was riding with his certain
face to the said certain horse’s tail; and the ver-
dict is dumb as to the cut and colour of the certain
pants worn by the said J.B. There is one other
omission which is especially noticeable, and that
is the omission of all common sense in the
framing of the verdict. From this circumstance,
and from the tautological redundancy of verbiage,
we certainly think that a certain Dan. O'Connor
must have sat on this very certain jury.
*
Four young men were brought up at a
Melbourne police court the other day on a charge
of using bad language. The arresting constable
deposed that, previous to using the language,
they had been eating saveloys at a cart. As if
this was not sufficient excuse for any language.
We once~no more—when in Melbourne, ate a
saveloy from one of the carts, and it was as much
as our religious convictions and pious training
could do to keep us from committing a burglary
or killing someone on the way home. The crimes
we thought of I Ugh I The very remembrance ol
them makes us shudder. For that quarter of an
hour we were filled with the fancies of fiends.
Take our word for it. There is more abandoned
wickedness in a saveloy than in au average gaol.
* * •
The workings of the bucolic mind are
strange and weird. An agricultural society called
“ The Associated Australian Yeomanry ” was
founded in Victoria not long since. The President
is a parson, and, perhaps for that reason, one of
the conditions of membership in the original rules
was as follows:—“Any person of good moral
character being a honafide cultivator or owner of
land, or having a direct interest in the ad-
vancement of the arts of cultivation, may be ad-
mitted to membership.” Fancy an advertisement
of the Society:—
GREAT PLOUGHING MATCH,
at Grumbudgerie.
Prize: A Family Bible.
Only Pure-Minded Ploughmen admitted as
competitors.
% Intending competitors must bring with them
certificates of moral character from the Minister
of the Parish in which they reside. No sinners
need apply. Hallelujah 1
It would be full of gorgeous amusement—
wouldn’t it ? But the Family Bible would have to
be cartod home again by the generous donor.
There would be no competitors. Probably it waf
with a view to this possibility that the stipulation
about moral character was, at the wish of a
majority of the meeting, struck out of the rules,
But its excision nearly broke the heart of the
reverend President. Imagine him having to pre-
sent a prize so a man who never darkened the door
of a churoh or contributed a threepence to the
plate! m * *
With joy we welcome the advent of a new
bard. He has written a poem, specially for the
Melbourne Herald, all about a little boy and girl
Let us quote two of the opening verses:—
“She, too, was an orphan; they played in theii
childhood
Together, and roamed through the brake and the
Wildwood;
Like sister and brother, cleaved ever together
In sunshine, in tog, spring, or winter’s bleak
weather.
“ I’ve seen them when fast and thick fell the snow
flakes
Look glad in their misery for each other's sakest
I’ve seen them laugh loud when the tempest
came near,
Each other's sad hearts ever striving to cheer.”
With a few strokes of his facile pen the poet here
presents to us a touching picture of infantine
virtue and devotion. In imagination we can see
the little friends cleaving together in the fog.
They are not a bit afraid. The boy is feeling his
way home by the garden railings with one hand t
while the other paw is locked in that of his fair
companion. Then, again, we can behold them
dissembling their anguißh when the snow is falling.
Instead of weeping bitterly, as most children
would do under such circumstances, this delect-
able couple are gathering handfuls of the frozen
vapour and hurling them at old women in well-
feigned glee. Bless their hearts! The poet must
excuse out inability to seethe loud laughter with
whioh they offered mutual consolation when the
weather broke up, but we can hear those merry
higgles—aye, in our dreams. Would we had space
to reprint all this poem. It is long, however.
Suffice it to mention that the little girl tumbles in
water and gets drowned, and the little boy k
only rescued from a similar fate by a “gallam
Newfoundland,” who brings hi u back to “s un
End.” The ingenuity disp ayed in finding a sin
n >le rhyme to Nee foundlaud i 3 worthy of not:o*
So is the courage of the poet in signing Lis r»>tm
0 his work. IDs rame is-but no matter. Tl
world will learn it soon enough. Let this ban
o£ dy perpetrate one more poem and ho will pro-
babJy die famous. At any rate, he will die. The
Melbourne public will see to that.
• a ■
There is trouble in the Chinese camp at
Ballarat. Two of the almond-eyed Celestials have
adopted Australian vices and taken to using ob-
scene language. Obscenity, in any shape or form )
is so out of place in a Chinese community that we
are not surprised to hear that a deputation waited
upon the Ballarat police authorities to ask for
summonses against the misguided twain. But
now comes the trouble. The swearing was done
in Chinese, and the sergeant told his pig-tailed
petitioners that he was afraid a prosecution
wouldn’t lie, as the magistrates could’nt under-
stand the naughty words when they heard them.
In vain the poor gentlemen tendered a literal
translation into English of the offensive expres-
sions. The sergeant pointed out that a Chinese
curse might be a British blessing for all the law
knew to the contrary. This is a sad state of affairs,
and one of the misfortunes to which a respectable
citizen is subject through understanding Chinese.
We have often suspected the gentleman who
supplies us with vegetables of addressing us in
other than the language of prayer, but, clothed in
ignorance, we have kept ourselves undeflled.
These Ballarat Chinamen, are deserving of our
sympathy. Bring the office tom-tom:—
Oh I pity those poor strangers
From a foreign Pagan land,
Thus exposed to social dangers
Which our law den’t understacd;
We hear their wail despairing,
And weep—but none the less
Ah Sin can keep on swearing,
While his friends have no redress.
Why shouldn’t a Celestial
(As moralist we speak),
Who uses language bestial
Be brought before the “ beak ? ”
’Tis really past all bearing
That these yellow-cheeked Chinese
Like troopers can go swearing
And blaspheming when they please.
When we hear words improper—
A British “ dash ” or “ dim
We call the nearest “ copper,”
And make complaint to him;
But the Chinee, merely wearing
His usual placid smile,
Can calmly start a-swearing
In his Oriental style. £
Oh I pity, then, these strangers
From far across the sea, W
Exposed to snares and dangers
That vex not you or me;
Let’s trußt they are preparing
For that happy region blest,
Where the wicked cease from swearing
And a Chinaman can rest.
Upon the same subject an old comrade of Sir
Henniker’s when the noble knight was lighting
up the columns of the Evening News with his
glittering reports of “ gashly ” accidents in Eliza-
beth-street, and “fatel" collisions .in George-
street, sends us the following verses:—
“ Is this a dream ? a joke ? a lie ?
Or can it be the shameful truth ?
I knew this Heaton in my youth.
A smooth-tongued fellow, sleek and sly,
With sallow skin and beady eye,
A creature that would crawl and creep,
An overgrown Urian Heep,
“ They never liked him, did the boys,
Though simply-born these honest lads,
They scouted all his scheming fads—
Yet shared with him their saveloys;
No dtfubt this thought he now enjoys,
And though at him they’d jeer and laugh,
They’d fill him up with shandy-gaff.
“ How many times—how many a night—
Have I corrected his weird spelling ?
Ah, well, it’s hardly worth the telling
How frequently I have put right
The grammar of that noble knight.
I wonder if the slipp’ry rogue
Would drink with me now—or Jim Hogue!”
There are two more verses, but they border too
early < n the ill-natured for us to print them.
We do no' mi ;d publishing anything in the shape
if a little harmless badinage about Henoiker, but
1 ve will not have anything said about him that
would be likely to hurt his feelings. But could
any suca thing be said ?. Wo will-not attempt it
anyhow. Tae writer bad batter tend the exoised
verses to Prank Bee nett
Poor Joe Thompson is to be commiserated
as the hero of the very lamest doggrei that ever
disfigured a sheet of paper. It appeared in the
excruciatingly funny columns of a little Mel-
bourne weekly, anent the robbery at the “ levia-
than’s ” house. Here it is :
Rob Joe? Our Joe?
Not much, Itbink— Boobmaking Joe ?
This with a wink— He's not so slow,
Not so. Oh, do I
No man lives, ho, Rob Joe? what chaff!
Who could, you know, It makes us laugh,
Rob Joe ? Our Joe ?
But if the tale be true, at most
The robber was a ghost.
Great Scott I ’tis horrible. We cannot let this
culprit continue his career of crime unchecked.
A word with him:—
Write verse! Write verse
Good man alive, And give it, look
You ought to drive To Jane, the cook
A hearse; (She’ll curse);
No corpse inside But-take the hint—
Could, if he tried, Don’t ever print
Write worse. Your verse.
But if you will persist—Oh, well!
Send each subscriber round his shell.
m • •
Another witty, genial, warm-hearted,
thriftless man of letters has gone. He has gone
to the Melbourne gaol. We speak of Herbert
, one to whom quoting his own
pathetic words—“ the cause of literature in Vic-
toria owes much.” Not having enjoyed Herbert s
personal friendship, we are unable to say what his
exact line is. It’s the cursed drink demon that is
at the bottom of all this suffering and disgrace,
dear fe-rends. Literary genius begins its career
by putting its face in a glass, and winds up by
hiding its head in a “jug.” A ballad—
Very distressing insinuations have been
made from time to time about the moral purity of
the Victorian Parliament. Even Cabinet Ministers
have not escaped the breath of scandal. As lons
as these hints and inuendoes emanated only from
the vulgar Radical herd (who never reverence the
most respectable of institutions) we said nothing.
But last week a Mr. King, speaking at the Wes-
leyan Conference in Melbourne, said that “ men
had held very high in Victoria whose
private morality would not bear looking into. The
Wesleyans, as a body, ought to vote against men
of such a class.” We cannot remain silent any
longer. When the Wesleyans commence to attack
anybody it is time for one of the minstrel boys to
sling his faithful harp behind him, and throw in
his lot with the opposite side. He has slung it in
front of him, and is now singing— t
A Northern (N.S.W.) P.M. is rather hard
of hearing. He never gets on to a speaker the
first time, and then, unless the man has a voice
like a fog-horn, he doesn’t grip ths right end of
his theme. The old gentleman is very highly
respected by his brother magistrates, and aJ P. is
always found willing to act “ears” for him.
During the hearing of a case in which a selector
was charged with damaging a sheriff's officer who
had taken possession of the selection in his afcser ce,
the farmer applied for a postponement The
sheriff's solicitor objected, when the tuftfy, big-
boned selector turnei and promptly t^marksd,
“If you don't shut up, IMhit you under the
earl ’ The lawyer apptaled for the protection of
the Court, and the senior magistrate, turning lo
his colleague, innocently asked, “ What docs he
s*y?” The J P. responded, “He applies for a
postponement for a week.” “Postponed for a
week,” said the P.M., as he turned over his sheet
and called “ Smith against Johnston.” The lawye
left the Court muttering remarks uncompliment-
ary to the Bench, and hid in a tank till the free-
selector had left the town.
* * *
At a recant fire brigade praotice at Albury,
some peculiar tests were given of the power and
force of the water supply. The first stream was
thrown on the dial of the post-office cloek, and
the figures washt d off. It is just as reliable now
though as before the deluge. After performirg
this feat satisfactorily, the fire-fighters took aim
at a girl, and shot her through the back fence of
the Globe Hotel. She immediately went into hys-
terics. After watching her for a the
water wasters coiled up their hose and went home.
On the next occasion of a visit of the member for
the district the hose carriage will follow the
triumphal car and occasionally demonstrate its
ability to fight the fire-fiend by squirting water
over the various buildings in the town. The
member had better arrange to be toted round in a*
tank.
* * »
It was in the good old days, at Eton, N.Q.,
when the Barrett’s twist used to lurk in the bot-
tom of the rum cask, that a billiard-marker, who
had been partaking too freely of that, or another
potent decoction, was brought up before two
local Justices of the Peace. The unfortunate
marker, despite his remonstrances, was fined ill,
with the alternative of being locked up for 24
hours. The £1 was duly paid and deposited in the
pocket of the senior J P , and the Beach adjourned
to the nearest hotel to have a drink. While in the
bar, they were joined by the quondam prisoner,
who said, ” You might as well shout for me too,
as it’s my £l.” ‘Til he hanged if I do,” said the
senior “Justice.” “Oh, well, give me back my
£l,” said the marker, “and I’ll take it out in
quod.”
* * *
Carlotta Patti has broken another leg.
During her career she has broken fourteen. Lon-
don papers say—but let us warble;—
Fair Carlotta
You have got a
Lot of legs—excuse us, limbs—
While they’re breaking
We are making
For you laudatory hymns;
And still thinking
(Ah! you’re winking—
Well, we won’t let up, indeed)
That you hear of
Legs your share of -
Gad! you're like a centipede.
* * *
We commend following obituary verse
to the Nooze and Ahe. Both these popular jour-
nals have worn the old “Dearest Msry, how we
miss thee,” till the type in which it is set looks
heartily tired of being coffined in its dismal leads,
and aches for a chance to expand itself in a mur-
der, a suicide, or even a drunk case. There is a
contradiction, too, in the line, “ How we ‘miss’
thee.” They do fcot “ miss ” her at all, they speak
of her as plain “Mary,” from start to finish of
their funeral howl. Now, the new verse is every
way as suitable as the other, and has the advan-
tage of being adaptable to all classes of defuncts.
Here it is:—
“ ’Tls the wink of an eye, ’tis the draught of a
breath,
From the blossom of health to the paleness of
death;
From the gilded saloon to the bier and the
shroud,
Oh, why should the spirit of mortal be proud.”
With a few alterations this would do as well for a
tap-room row:—
He winked at the barmaid, she heard his eye click,
And promptly she banged him with half of a
brick;
From the gilded saloon he was fired in the crowd,
Oh! why should the spirit of masher be proud ?
There, Alfred, no charge for the suggestion,
which we are sure if you adopt it will “ give plea-
sure to all.”
* * *
Thus “Vidooq’’ in the Goulburn Southern
Argus:—“ The way in which the Sydney papers
with one or two exceptions, pander to any indivi-
dual who is the possessor of a title, would be
laughable were it not the cause of extreme dis-
gust to all whose ideas are not tainted with the
wretohed spirit of Jingoism which dwells within
the breasts of the metropolitan journalists. Lord
and Lady Carington, of course, come in for the
lion’s share of slobber at the present time; and
his Excellency must have a peculiar opinion of
the characteristics of the Australian people if he
takes his text from the Sydney Press. Last week
Lady 'Carington visited the immigration depot, to
witness the hiring of immigrants, and whilst the
roll was being called, the name of a child who had
died on the voyage was accidentally mentioned,
whereat the mother burst into heartrending
lamentations at the thought of her dead offspring.
‘The woman was promptly removed by the
authorities, as it was not thought correct that
Lady Carington should he an eye-witness of such
a scene.’ Not one word of sympathy for the un-
fortunate woman—the bereaved mother. She
was of the plebeian order, and was unworthy of a
thought being cast upon her, whilst such an
opportunity as was afforded of bringing Lady
Carington’s name before an already disgusted
public could not bo lost sight of. This sort of
thing is becoming nauseous, and the man or boy
who would hit the gifted writer of the paragraph
referred to over the eye with a decayed egg would
convey to him, in an unmistakable manner, an
idea of the estimation in which he is held by hia
unfortunate readers.”
Vidocq, lad, thy hand. Thy intentions are good;
But an egg, howe'er strong it be.viewed as a food,
Asa missive is weak, in thes9 pitiful days
When the land has gone off on the Carington
craze.
When all a man needs, from his shirt to hia beer,
Is named after this most unfortunate peer—
From the hat on hfs head to the pants on his legs,
Should the vengeance of Heaven be embodied in
eggs ?
Ah, no. To repress each sad lickspittle hack
Needs more than an egg s odoriferous smack
Such foreheads as theirs are, O honest Vidocq,
■ Might cmiie at the petriljed egg of a roc.
“SIR HENNIKER.”
“The Daily Chboniclb states that Mr.
J. Henniker Heaton, M.P., a recent resident in
N.S.W., will be knighted for colonial services.”
Hoi watehman on Cape Schanck!
Hoi warder on South Head,
Blaze up your beacon-light
And let the news be spread—
The news of wild delight,
That Henniker’s a Knight-
Great gods I—a man of rank I
Yell! Alfred Bennett, yelll
And loosen your cravat,
And laugh a fearsome laugh,
And dance upon your hat I
And give each of your staff
A sixpence for to quaff
The liquor that they choose
Their ancient mate unto—
The everlasting swell.
Sir Henniker, boys—booh I
Sir Henniker—ho Iho I
This paralysing news
Will kill us yet, we know I
But, maybe it’s a hoax,
Bung on us simple folks,
Unused to such grim jokes I
Maybe he wrote—that subtle elf I
The telegram himself I
But no—no such chance; by the Lord,
It is said somewhere that all men
Must eat in their lives so much dirt -
He’s eaten enough for ten:
It is right he should have his reward.
UNHAPPY HERBERT.
There are others like you, Herbert,
Thus reduced to mournful wrecks
Through a weakness for the “ sherbert ”
(Or a liking fer the sex).
Only look around you, sonny,
Artne many, many such,
Who have not got any money,
Though their country owes ’em much.
You were probably a poet;
Bards are born to grief and care
(Ah! indeed we’ve cause to know it),
And their lot is hard to bear;
We could mention hundreds, Bertie
1 (Here a tender chord we touch),
*Who are greasy, drunk, and dirty,
But their country owes ’em much.
A SOP FOR THOSE SENATORS.
Oh, no! we won’t believe it; hide the wicked
thought away,
No mortal shall persuade us to suspect an M.L. A.
Of the little fleshly failings to which other men
are prone—
Only listen to their speeches. O! how moral
is their tone.
The measures they delight in must be passed in
Virtue’s cause,
And every blessed member wants to add his
special clause;
For a holy fear and trembling, lest mankind should
go astray,
Seems to mark the legislation of the modern
M.L.A.
Graham Berry, you remember, sought a certain
bill to pass,
Which had changed oaoh blushing barmaid to a
Hallelujah lass;
If a lot of worthy members, in a manner meek
and mild,
Hadn’t said they’d found those barmaids to be
pure and undeflled.
Are these the sort of people to do any naughty
thing—
As giddy as was hinted at, the other day, by
King?
Don’t they oarry out, in private, what they preach
in public life ?
Does any one among ’em have a secret from his
wife?
0, lie! we won't believe it; there’s no legislative
gent
But is virtuous as Strephon, when he got in Par-
liament;
They may be (like that shepherd) Whig or Tory—
we don’t know;
But we’re positive their morals are as spotless as
the snow.


Woman Items
The widow of the Red Prince and mother
of the Duchess of Connaught is about to embark
on another matrimonial venture with i a cava y
officer a worthy enough fellow, but horrible
relate- a commoner. The lady sutfers i rom de-
fect in her hearing; and when tkeEmpr s
Germany, in the course of a succession of stor y
and tearful interviews, entreated her giddy cousin
anv rate to nut off the wedding until near oiu
Billyh had got his other foot comfortably into t
grave, she found herself preaching to more than
ordinarily deaf ears. Our sympathies, it is neea
less to say, are entirely with the bridegroom.
Time was when a pair of garters would
not have been mentioned by any y° u °{* *9™ 8l iJ
Now they are counted in with gloves,
atnnkiTurs and bonbons a»s allowable for betting,
in consequence of which their magnificence is un-
oaralleled. The buckles are set with gems, ana
have all sorts of sentences and‘devices upon them.
The motto of the Order of the Garter is a grear
favourite, but when that is put on nobody feels
like wearing them as dog-collar buckles, which is
always the fate of the handsome ones. Of course,
vou want the giver to see you appreciate them,
and really—well, that is the best way to arrange it.
Manv of the English papers confidently
predict that the enfranchisement of women will
be accomplished in 1886. It is said that an a
maioritv of the members are in favour of it, ana
only Ware known to be °bP°? e A-x h f Tories lin-
sure would be an immense gam to the Tories. im
milftive as women are, they are almost all txmser
vatives at heart. When the enfranchisement takes
nlaoe who would not desire to be a canvasser at
election times ? Kissing will then have to be
declared an act of bribery and corruption. It
sometimes conduces to the t dead
to the case of an Adelaide girl who kissed a aeaa
Penali, the Parisian artist, was about to
he married to one of the most charming >oung
bonuses of the last season. The bridal party baa
• this he objected, declaring that it was
inartistic and assorted his ante-marital authority
or and left the church.
Klfthe change, Pen.li will pro-
bably remain sicgle.
An American Democrat promised his
nnnJhter a new silk dress if she would get a beau
who was deaTshook to vote the Party ticket
■what will not woman do for a silk dress? dhis
Wbat win not wumau « tQ propoS ing point,
SSttf S!5
alter it) or , ou>rintnral or legßl, in the hope
upder it.
■n» S'ffl bSSS “he £*£s?£
couple had leit tne (rreyg stoo d chewing
at the door, the tl bit g ” hile the bride was being
Wflsed and the f^/^cWM^his^heirt^in a
a? sms? &sz
arr^ o of the old man fired the boot It took the
seats, the ol d knocked him iasenslble
vehicle. The old man spent the rest of
m'wiKm?till tS carriage ia out ot sight before
hi catapults the beetle crusher again.
Before Parson Jefferis prepares another
v.• n ftcainst the female fashions, will he
tmafv make a note of the fact that the latest
wrinkle in silk stockings is to have them orna-
wrmkie m s flkeB reverend lecturer will
notice thlt the soaked tail begins below the
also notice v,ody of the reptile wriggles down
fhe leg His neck stretches along the middle of
Ihn foot and then doubles back to allow his head
i under the wearer’s heel, In order
+v!a+ e ihe Scriptures may be fulfilled, and the
woman may crush the serpent’s head every time
Ihn nlan“s 7 her heels down. A scarlet stocking
ahoitid have the snake in white, and vice versa. It
to believed that the temperance cause will be
18 oeuev , the new for the
t !fme°a^arried D man comes home very tired
Jht and catches sight of his wife's leg-
on lodge _ floor he W in naturally conclude he
S“|ofem B "Sn> and swear oft without delay.
The story of the Amazons cannot have
ine syu j after all. There have been
l>ee Ar J u U instances in history of women fighting
men and getting the best of the battle,
too DS The 6 latest instance comes from the Uig
Taianfls—a group in the Scottish Hebrides. It
Islands .. . whole P opulation had gone otf to the
Sorrimr The landlords who lay claim to
?h« TslandB thought this would be a gorgeous
the b “ nssesaion of them. Accordingly a
chB ?f of tacksmen, ground officers.
Allies and* shepherds was made on the mainland,
fnd they set out in boats with a cargo of sheep
an ® “tL tfi land on the Islands. Tn® women of
rTiv heard of this and immediately set out in a
Gig hear no meet the m-each woman armed
a nhib and carrying an apronful of stones.
engagement took place about a mile
A general e g » after four hours lighting,
with. [Bahl-Eo. B]
A war. has appeared in several American
papers, which is alleged to contain the true history
of P the introduction of the jersey. The first of
garments was made for the Princess of
wmes g whose splendid figure it set olf to perfec-
tion ’she was so delighted with it that she made
invmftor promise not to reveal the secret, or
the i i ? onotw iersev for a year. It created a great
X«atfon and 3 soon after it was first worn the
?ha“” he^aidf ‘‘but I will take the^responsiblfity
"Ind^thJ
well when worn by the “ Jersey Lily,” that it took
7 ts n ame from her native town. How the Prince
anuared matters with her highness is not stated.
Perhaps he didn t. Bash, of course. The jersey
was worn by channel fishermen and sailors long
Effore -omen wore it, and lis name came from
the boatman of Mrs. Langtry'sbirtbplace-Jersey,
one of the Channel Islands.
Mrs. Langtry lias had the fate of Lady
f.idiva and ol her beauties in being pestered with
r “ Peeping Tom.” W bile playing at Birmingham
fatolv her beauty fired the admiration of a youth-
ful hardware apprentice. He would fain see her
t'romotherpoffits of view than those the in-
terior of the theatre afforded. As he had looked
up to her from the stalls so he would look down
upon her from the roof. Her dressing-room had
askvlhrhtto it. The queen of King Gyges was
seen in her bath, but Mrs. Langtry w»s to be seen
while robing and “ making up for the
and those in front of them. Bag :er otiosity,
whieh took our youth up safely over the tiles,
forgot to take care £ im -.. Lik ® ‘1 J» U of inttaeskv-
tion,” he “ fell upon the other side of the sky
light, or at least one of his legs did. He baa tne
satisfaction of hearing Mrs. Bhe
darted awav from the shower of tailing glass, one
might have thought that old Jupiter was descend-
ing upon her in the form he alighted upon Danae
but she was quickly undeceived, youngster
was bvher special request, not punished by im
prisonmenL She felt father flattered, perhaps, by
Buch novel form of admiration.
Young men about to marry, who gaze
entranced at the imaginary vista b i i ® Bf B 'it
vears onening out before you, who love to sit
about in the gloaming and dreamily picture sell
aud nartner tendering mutual assistance as
together you descend the hill 0 *
falling asleep in one another s withered but affec-
tionatG arms well* just read this, tne guar
dians of a London workhouse were taxed with
orneltv in separatinj? old married paupcjrEL
they called their wards together, and asked them
if they would prefer living together as man and
wife. y The offer was rejected unanimously- Tbey
had tried nuptial felicity and wanted no more of
it. In fact, one old lady said that lft he £ Sardian s
insisted upon quartering her with the gooa
man” she’d “throw herself out of window.
Read this, young men, and pause. The fellow
who said that “ love can never more grow old
was getting at vou. Love grows both old and
cantankerous. ‘Even that other fellow, who re-
marked that when “ poverty stalks in at thedoor
love flies out of the window, was only telling
half the truth. Love, as you see, actually chucks
itself out of the window. Break off your engage-
ments and go and sin no more.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS.
Palace Emporium,
Haymarket only.
THE PALACE MANGLE,
24in. wide, £3.
Will Save its Cost in no time.
HBATRH ROYAL.
. Under the management of
Messrs. Wtt.t.tamson. Garner and MuSGROYI.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo.L. Goodman.
POSITIVELY THE LAST EIGHT NIGHTS
of
THE MOST GORGEOUS PANTOMIME
EVER PRODUCED IN SYDNEY.
A.n Entirely New Version of the Old Fairy Story,
CINDERELLA,
HER SISTERS, HER SORROWS,
and
HER*LITTLE GLASS SLIPPER;
or,
THE FAIRY GODMOTHER
who wouldn’t let
THE BAD STEP-FATHER.
Admission : Dress Circle. 55.; Stalls, 35.; Family
for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box plan open at the Theatre daily from
10 till 5. No Free List.
G
AIE T Y
Lessee
Business Manager.
THEATRE.
.. Mr. John Solomon
.. Mr. B. N. Jones.
BUCCESS of the SC COESS
green lanes of England
GREEN LANES OF ENGLAND.
AMPIER as GENTLEMAN GEORGE,
f‘ Charge of the Light Brigade,”
“Little Jim, the Collier s Child,”
aHE GREEN LANES OF ENGLAND.
MiSS MYRA KEMBLE as Margaret Wheatstone.
THIS (THURBDAY) EVENING.
THE GREEN LANES OF ENGLAND.
Box Office, Nicholson and Co.
Tickets may be secured at Cole’s Book Arcade.
Manager for Mr. Dampier .. ..FRED. GUNTHER.
L YMPIC THEATRE,
York-street.
Lessee .. .. .. .. Mr. M. L. RAPHAEL.
Sub-Lessee and Director.. M. LEON CARON.
CARON’S ENGLISH OPERA COMPANY.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 o'clock,
CARMEN.
SATURDAY. February 6th,
MARITANA.
Usual prices—ls ,2 , 35., and 4s. Box office at
Nicholson’s.
H. J. SAMUELL, Business Manager.
ACADEMY OF MU 8 10.
A Role Proprietor and Manager. .F. E. Hiscocks.
EVERY EVENING, UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE.
AN UNDENIABLE SUCCESS,
by
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
in conjunction with a specially-selected Dramatic
Company, in their first production of the moral
and religious (specially written) drama of
UNCLE TOM’S CABIN,
witnessed each night by crowded and most
enthusiastic audiences.
mEE ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
George-street, Haymarket. *
Leiaee and Director Mr. Frank Smith.
The Home of Minstrelsy and Mirth.
The Popular and Fashionable Resort.
TO-NIGHT, and every evening during the week,
the Alhambra Variety and Speciality Union in
their Refined Entertainment,
MINBTELSY, OLIO, and FARCE.
IMMENSE SUCCESS. IMMENSE SUCCESS, of
CAPTAIN CAMPBELL,
the PREMIER VENTRILOQUIST,
Popular Prices; Orchestra chairs, 3s; stalls, Is;
balcony, Is.
Artists of acknowledged ability disengaged,
please communicate with Mr. Frank Smith.
L
YNCH
Manager
FAMILY BELLRINGERS
(Organised 1867)
Harry Lynch.
Campbelltown (return vieit)-Thursday, Feb. 4.
Liverpool (return visit)— Friday, February 5.
On Saturday, 6th instant, the Company return to
town, after completing a three months very suc-
cessful tour through the Southern portion of the
colony. Monday, 15th instant, Bathurst and other
inland towns will be visited.
T
,0 ACTORS, ACTRESSES, MANAGERS, &c.
THE THEATRICAL NEWSPAPER
BUREAU.
All the chief London Theatrical Papers on sale,
including -Stage,” “Theatre.” “Topical Times,”
“ Dramatic Review,” “ Bat,” &c., at moderate
prices. Postage tree to any address in Australia.
WrlMt ° CHAMBERS,
Bank Plaoe, Collins-street, Melbourne.
J. MURPHY’S
Central Loan and Discount
Offices,
CORNER OF KENT & LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite George-street.
Money Lent at the Lowest Rate of Interest
In tills City.
Loans from Is. to £lOOO, at lOd. in the £
per Month.
Loans on Gold and Silver Jewellery, Clothing, and
every description of Portable Property, granted
at Rates never before attempted in this Colony.
American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murphy’s Central Loan and Dis-
count Offices, corner of Kent and Liverpool streets,
opposite George-street.
G
ENTLEMEN’S CLOTHEIS REPAIRED
AND CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Near Market-street.
TO THE MEMBERS OF THE AUSTRALIAN
MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
T ADIES AND GENTLEMEN,—I respectfully
I A Solicit your Votes and Interest as a Director
of your Society.
FREDK. LEE.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, February 3, 1&6.
Tenders for public works and sup.
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti*
eulars see Government Gazette, a file of which
Is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers
are opened
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, If possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will he taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly compiled
with.
The Government does not bind itself to aocept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Work! and SuppllM
Dates to whioh
Tenders can be
received [at
this office.
Erection of Gallery, Court-
house, Wilcaania
Bridge over Bibbenluke River
on Holt’s Flat-road
Erection of Drivers’ Quarters at
Eveleisrh
Erection of Residence for Porter
in charge at Mount Druitt,
Great Western Railway
Tuesday,
February 9.
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Single line of
Tramway from Waverley to
Randwick
Bridge over the Bogan River at
Dandaloo
Construction of Wharf at Bal-
ranaid
Re-rolling Worn-out Iron Rails |
Tuseday,
February 16,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Bourke
Additions to Post and Telegraph
Office, Sutton Forest
Tuesday,
February 23,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Rigging-House, Sail
Loft, &c., Garden Island
Additions, &c., Post and Tele-
graph Office, Grafton
Repairs, Painting, &0., Cape St.
George Lighthouse
Tuesday,
March 3,
at 11 o’clock.
Excavation of a New Entrance
for Yanko Creek
Tuesday,
March 9,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Custom-house, Wil-
cannia
Tuesday,
March 16,
at 11 o’clock
JACOB GABBARD.
Dr. George On Lee,
46 SYDNEY,
WILL see patients, February 12th, at Goul-
burn; 13th, see patients at Braidwood;
15th, see patients at QueanbeyaD; 19th, see natients
at Dubbo; 25th, see patients at Bega; 26th, see
patients at Eden; 27th, return to Sydney.
Ist March, will Remove to 31 YORK-STREET,
WYNYARD-SQTJARE.
D' RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in Englcfnd,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
• use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
H
OLLOWAY’S PILLS
A never-failing remedy in all Derangements of
the LIVER and STOMACH, they may be used with
perfect confidence by young and old.
Their world-wide fame for the last fifty years is
a guarantee of their efficacy. Thousands of test -
imonials, from princes to peasant?, attest their
marvellous virtues.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford- st., London
83T” Purchasers should look to the Label.on the
Boxes and Pots. If the address is not 633 Oxford-
Street, London, they are spurious.
to £l5 per Lot.
ERIN* TOWNSHIP,
808F0RD.
BUSINESS and BESIDE NCE
FREEHOLD ALLOTMENTS
from
40ft. to 301 ft. Frontages,
and from
143 ft. to 456 ft. in depth.
GARDEN PLOTS,
Soil from 5 to 13 feet deep.
CLEARED and CULTIVATED ALLOTMENTS.
The cottages are all sold, but there are a number
of picturesque sites remaining, and timber can be
obtained from the Model Farms adjacent.
WATER FRONTAGES.
Allotments with an inexhaustible supply of fresh
water running through them.
Settlers are Flocking to this New Township,
where everyone willing to work can make an in-
dependent living, and own their freehold, the
terms being within the reach of all, viz.:
ss. per Block per Month.
No Interest.
TORRENS’S TITLE.
THE RAILWAY
will open shortly, and then the price of this land
will be more than doubled.
The remaining lots are being offered for private
sale, and special arrangements are made for in-
spection.
The Erina £ team boat Wharf is on the Estate.
The Public School, attended by upwards of 60
children, is on the property.
The Post-office is adjoining.
Shipbuilding yards are adjacent, and one is to be
started on the property.
For plans, pamphlets, and particulars, sent free
to any address, apply to
BOYD and KING,
AUCTIONEERS,
96 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE “HITCHCOCK” LAMP.
‘wa/
M?
m
4‘ . (MM ‘1
Ila—innuﬁrlii, ‘
H—NWW‘W
;:::5:
=ff‘a
vaginal .'v
“j ‘ “I 1
1"; “qu H M‘
1 11’”: i H
‘E ‘i’li'l N 1
. 4%ili£::;
Wm ‘ 1?:
The best in the world for
burning kerosene. No
chimney required, no
smoke, no odour, explosion
impossible.
This Lamp produces a
better light than gas, or
any other lamp in exist-
tence, it does not cost over
one farthing per hour, and
gives light equal to three
ordinary lamps.
This Lamp is now in all
countries throughout the
world, and thousands of
them are now in general
use in Australasia.
Testimonials are co v
in from all classes fro *• .. e
different colonies tes i‘ v -
ing to the superiority < f
this Lamp, a few of wnich
are submitted to the
general public.
We defy the world to
produce an equal light at
the same expense as the
“Hitchcock” Lamp for
house use, halls, churches,
hotels, streets, steam boats,
, billiard tables, railway
l stations, cars, printing
offices, stores, mines, factories, or any other plac
where light is required We caution the puhiic
against worthless imitations of this Lamp.
Testimonials:
146 Phillip street, Sydney,
31st January, 1885.
Gentlemen,— Having now usee, for some weeks,
one of your Hitchcock Patent Kerosene Lamps, I
unhesitatingly pronounce it to be the beet light l
have ever seen for medical use. The steadiness,
brilliancy, and soft colour of the flame render it
invaluable when the opthalmoscope is in requisi-
tion.
I am, gentlemen,
Yours, very faithfully,
A. WILLAN JACKSON.
Cooma, June 6.
Dear Sir,—l have very much pleasure in certify-
ing to the durability and finish of the Hitchcock
Lamp of which you are agent. I have thoroughly
examined it, and must say without fusitstion it is
the best of the kind I have ever seen. I have fre-
quently had occasion to repair lamps of similar
make, and believe that the mechanism of the one
I am now writing far exceeds any of them—
stronger, and not nearly so complicated—and I
might also mention that it is a mtst economical
light, one Lamp showing as much light as three
ordinary ones,
I am yours, Ac.,
C. HAIN, Watchmaker.
Cobar, Sept. 3, ’B5.
Dear Sir,—l beg to acknowledge receipt of your
note making enquiries as to the Lamps purchased
some months ago, for our church at Cobar. It
gives me much pleasure to be able to inform you
that the “ Hitchcock ” is all th«t it is repre-
sented to be. I have seen nothing equal to your
Lamp; it ifmany decrees superior to tne ordinary
Kerosene lamp, and is admirably suited for church
use.
Most sincerely yours,
L. BELGIJR.
Carisbrook State School,
7th July, 1885.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure in certiiymg
that 1 have been using one of Hitchcock’s Patent
Lamps for some time, and that it gives a very
brilliant shady light in a large room, and is a sav-
ing in kerosene and glasses; the flame is very like
a jet of gas, and in every way the Lamp answers
all my expectations. I intend, if possible, in future,
to use no other.
Yours, faithfully,
HENRY BKILBY, Head Teacher.
Dunolly, Victoria, 7th July, 1885.
Sir,—lt affords me very much pleasure indeed
in bearing testimony to the superior advantages oi
the “ Hitchcock Patent Lamp ” over those in com-
mon use. The light given by this Lamp is bright,
clear, and steady—not unlike a jet of good ga»
light, but without its flickering. By means of »
I can see elearly to perform many little delicate
operations that I would not have attempted wim
the ordinary lamp light. Wnen covered by tne
shade it throws down a soft clear light, not at an
injuiious to the eyes while reading I can conn-
dentlv recommend it as a study or consultmg-
room Lamp to country practitioner like myself, tu»
well as to the general public.
I am, yours truly,
.1. A. SUTHERLAND, M.D
Agents wanted in all parts of Australasia. ,
Dealers and storekeepers supplied at the lowest
rates direct from the manufactory at the oom-
pany’s Agency, 60 York-street, Sydney.
R. AUlngham,
i Sole Agent for the colonies,


SUNDRY SHOWS.
m jni.TWB ROTAii—" Cinderella " • P* 8 ‘
;,tpty theatre— ‘'Green Lanes of England „
at ham bra— Minstrelsy, Olio, and Faroe.
Academy of Music.—“ Uncle Tom s Cabin „
Mb and Jais crew— [talented
, rnrtknV.— Eb. B.'j continue to exhibit the ‘‘Green
of England ” to fair houses, at the Sydney
Until we saw this play we were under the
Lnression that Englisn lanes were lovely
«?nues, the trysting place of lovers, and the con-
fvmftl abode of virtue and beauty. But we have
rudely disillusioned. The Green Lanes are
sn?v nassably pretty themselves, and they are the
Sofmt of the vilest characters that it ever entered
PAT, the heart of playwrights to conceive. Still,
are inclined to hope that in working up the m-
'"mants of the drama Messrs. Pettit and Conquest,
Save made a petit conquest of probabilities and
After gazing for three solid hours on the
™nral obtuseness of Bill the Slogger, the deep-
villainy of Clement Flint, the fascinating
ivllltv of Margarat Wheatstone, the harshness of
w father, and the degradation of Gentleman
George, one is glad to get ofit again off to EiWi-
Lth-street (weStei-n sidy), aman’, men and women
uritosß beauty is ndt more conspicuous than their
«tiVarving virtue. There are but few dramas into
which the authors have been able to cram a more
pnnstant succession or varied class of crime than
that contained in the “Greea Lanes. This fact pro-
bably accounts for a large share of its popularity.
••Uncle Tom’s Cabin ” is to follow.
* * « «
After all, it is to the Olympic before
••Carmen” Is taken off (‘’L’Afrieaine ,l is beung
rfiheaned). you must go for real enjoyment. The
writer of ‘‘Carmen” is dead. He saw bis work
produced in Paris, and vexation at the slip-slop
wav (there were only 500 people on the stage) it
WBB put on, killed him. H*ad he attended the
Olympic he’d be ahve still. The actors would be
rififtd And vet they welje good enotigh In their
wav. but the whole Surroundings were provocative
mirth. To begin with, the stage of the Olympic
ias never meant for anything more than a c og
hornpipe, or, at mosq a magic lantern representa-
tion of scenes in the Holy Land, got up by a
travelling missionary to Keep foundling-asyluni
rhildren irom scepticism. The result was that the
whole strength of the company couldn't appear
at once without spilling into the orchestra, and
causing the person who kept up a series ot isolated
grunts on the trombone to climb into the gallery,
if he wanted to have his soio out. The effect of
the limited space was seen in various ways-
notably, in tne smugglers' cave, in which one
fairly-developed outlaw couldn’t lie down without
throwing out bales of cashmere silks and Persian
carpets to make room. Whe 1 the Toreador (Mr.
Gainer) appeared, his Splendid presence caused
loud applause. But it was instinctively felt that
Slaughtering- bulls-unlees they were tied-was
tffobably the last occupation he d adopt if left to
himself.
* * *
Rainford was Zuniga, a Spanish captain.
There was about him an air of fierce determina-
tion, of cruel ruthlessness, which caused many In
the gallery to stop sucking oranges and attend to
what was going on. But he sottened after a bit,
and at last became So mollified as to put his hand
to his mouth in the ” I-must-dissemble ” style and
take the pit into bis confidence. The Peninsular
uniforms require attention. In changing fire-
brigade helmets into military head gear it is not
wise to remove all the brass edging, as the rims
always appear limp and out of sorts afterwards.
Miss Sherwin was Carmen. She dances, sings, and
plays the castanets. We like her singing best—her
dancing has a certain grace about it, but you re-
gret alter a while that she learnt it. She has a
dignitied way of pointing when she wants the
room or the caVe to hetself, but as nobody
appears to pay any attention to it, it becomes a
Httle titesottte. We think that when a person in
her position points to a window, a door, or a sky-
light, the soldiers or smugglers present should
tumble over each other in their desire to escape
by the orifice indicated. Messrs. Kelly and Clynton
were outlaws. You’d never think so but for the
murderous weapons worn in their girdles. When
Captain Rainford bit his lip in proud scorn at hav-
ing to submit to such ” trash,” we trembled for
his life on seeing both scoundrels coldly aim at a
point some inches above his head. Nor were our
tears for the brave officer’s life allayed till the
conviction forced itself upon us that the stocks
and barrels of the firearms had long since parted
company.
9 * *
Apropos of the performance, L'entr' Actc
says “It proved once again that the latent talent
we have in this fair laiid of Australia only requires
to be trained to rival the sunny climes of Italy.”
This has been our opinion all along -It’s training
that’s wanted. We knew a promising young tenor
in Ballarat who went la for a course. When he
started you couldn’t get a detached cottage under
20s a week. By the time he could sing the varia-
tions to “ Home, sweet home,” people used to
drive their cows Into the street to graze. Allpress
is leading the Olympic orchestra. It is whispered
that he keeps his hair short because his neck is
long. But surely there are other means of making
your neck look short if you want to. We knew a
man to borrow a butcher’s chopper and —[We
require to hear no more of tne peculiar persons
you’ve known.-Ed. B.] Well, if you want to
witness struggles of pitiless intensity, female love-
liness seldom seen in public before, manly beauty
that would have sent the late Tom Bowling aloft
before his time with envy, implements of warfare
of a novel and effective pattern, and uniforms
which no foe could be found to face, don’t miss
Carmen,”
* * * *
Frank Smith’s bonanza— the Haymarket
Alhambra—seems to still be paying good dividends
to the only shareholder. We dropped in on Mon-
day night—no, on second thoughts we walked in,
but it seems to favour less of studied phrase to
’’emark, in a careless way, that we dropped in.
larley warbled “ Dublin Bay ” in his usual cul-
tivated style. Now, if Farley would warble
* buwn by the sad sea waves ” and go down there
to warble it we would gladly encore him by tele-
phone. Miss Williams favoured the audience with
another Spanish air, “ Come back to Erin.” If
Miss W. would only consent to sin? such music
ml the while we would come back to her in less
nme than a York-street peeler could scoff a pie.
oeorge Gardner stated, in such melody as he only
get on to, that *’Mary's gone with a coon.'
el), if George sat by the hob and barked out
®uch of the same sort of music, it would not sur-
prise us to learn that Mary had gone with a native
bear and a hand-organ to erv If she could not earn
"er living as a professional beauty. Cissy O’Comor
nxed her hazel eye on us and cherruped. ‘‘ Keep
ana kiss for me” We took it to the Academy
“Pd gave icto Bam Keenan, he has more room for
“towing away that sort of lumber than we have—
mir mouth is asize 2 (Sam’s is a size, too). Cissy
taa get it if she cals round there. Mr. W. Wesley
ipo relation to John, of glorious memory) gained
“PPPoore for tne "Cuckoo Song.” Amy Rowe
‘ Bring back my Love ” (Do you notice,
th ° m en al ways seem to be losing their loves, and
slr5 lr watchkeys, and the hammer and things.)
bani y a sweet voice, and if her love won’t come
f ppp when she calls him it is no use anyone going
tho ..V?* T he farce, the “ screammg farce,”
U-S. Mall,” preceded the funereal gioom
augsn by tllQ SU( 3don extinguishing [That will
* * *
h(v^ e of Music, for so long the
minL+ °t min strelsy and mirth, is now devoted to
l'nm' 8y aad Pathos, in presenting “Uncle
8 Cabin,” the management has evidently
c -vedto display the versatility of the Federal
u °t nsioessary to allude to the work
aurirt Cent’s Uocl“ Tom fully accords with tne
b e jpP r ° 8 8 a ideas Uncle Tom was an impossible
••a, a sort of 18-carat Christian, from whom the
alloy had been removed, until he stood out In bold
relief a sample of the genuine article in standard
fineness, too soft to wear well, and too good to
get along any further than the cemetery,where he
is, after a lifetime of tribulation, eventually borne.
This is merely supposition, as the play does not
show that he was buried. He was duly killed,
though, by Legree, after which he helped to swell
the numbers of “ Nearer to Thee.” Bent deserves
rnqfe than a passing line of commendation We
have always identified hiiq with funny business,
and it is hard to dissociate him frond the superla-
tively ridiculous, but in his representation pf Mrs.
Stowe’s creation, he develops histrionic ability of
a high order.
e s •
The Topsy of Miss Fanny Wiseman is the
Topsy she gave us years ago. She has not
fallen off; she has little room for improvement.
How sweetly familiar the old gags sound, “ Golly,
I’se so wicked,” and the alphabet in the auction-
room, “a-b, ab; i-b, ib; u-fe-blowed!” Have we
heard her before? Aye, several years ago.
$ * *
Legree is represented by George Collier,
than whom no better nigger-driver is to hand. The
brutal slave-owner is fittingly represented, and
the frequent and fervent hisses of the audience
are his nightly tribute. In the scene when the
iock df Eva’s hdfr is discovered in Uncle Tom’s
possession and brought to Legree by one of his
creatures, the acting is rather heavy. A man
steeped to the eyebrows in iniquity, and sunk to
the bed-rock of vileness, who can flog women and
kick men, is not likely to be excited to any great
extent by the sight of a tress of golden hair.
Legree was only fitted to be a slave-driver or a
N.S.W. Judge. He loves the lash—its whistle is
music to his ear, and his greatest joy is to chop
the frightened, terror-striken slaves at every
opportunity. We have a few Lsgrees here. Miss
Thayne is a child. She was “ Dear little Eva,” and
she climbs the golden stair. Miss Thayne’s mentor
has evidently forgotten to impress upon her
youthful mind the necessity of dying gradually.
Her voice is not that of a dying child, and she dies
like a chicken strnck by a sparrowhawk, or a baby
goat introduced to a msh of lightning. Her de-
cease is too little Eva died of
consumption, not heart disease. The Ofissy of
Miss St-Lawrence is enjoyable. She is so unlike
womankind. The spirit of forgiveness winch
a womaa is credited with holding so largely has
not a quarter-acre allotment in her composition.
She was as bitter as an opened bottle of yester-
day's colonial, and as goad a shot as Ike Austin.
Sho shoots at the man in the files, who engineers
the curtain, and drops Legree as dead as a Hebald
leader on tne stage. Miss Millie Collier’s Eliza won
her the sympathetic favours of the audience. Her
escape across the ice was a duet with the
mechanist, in which she played the leading part.
Aunt Upheda was represented by Miss Kochefort,
who made much of a part which, like sodawater
or death, has little attraction at the latter end.
| Aunt ’Phely is only useful with Topsy, so tne pert
is a thankless one.
* * « #
In spite of the rapidly increasing mor-
tality in several of the suburbs, the management
continue “Cinderella” at the Sydney Theatre
Royal, and audiences, redolent of revenue to the
triumvirate, continue to assemble. Greville, the
beauteous Cloriuda, introduces a lot of Eew busi-
ness, which we are quite willing to admit is better
than the stuff allotted him by the author; but lest
he should become inflated with pride on hearing
such an ample compliment, we hasten to essure
bim that we don’t see how it could possibly be
worse. Allround, the pant, is more permeated
witn originality than when first produced la
fact, it is whispered that one of the chorus giris
has something original in the way of—well, lower
limbs, you know,—it is alleged that there is no
sawdust in them. “ Cinderella” booms along until
the lllth lost.
# # # #
“Queen’s Evidence” is still ver£ much
en evidence at the Sydney Opera House, where
H. N. Douglas as Medland preaches from Still 10
every evening. "A 1 at Lloyd’s ” is in preparation.
Our one little prayer for the last month has been
that we may have something pleasant and nice to
say about tnat, for really we sometimes fear that
the smile which has awaited us lately at tne Opera
House is not so full and enthusiastic as it usM to
be in days of yore, when we were able to write
cheerful little pars, about the performances at
that delectable haven of sublunary rapture.
m m m *
As a writer of comic songs, Mr. Lewis
Scott is not quite on a level with Gilbert, yet be
has achieved a success denied to the author of
“Pinafore.” At a musical matinee at the Gaiety
on Saturday the great Scott sang a comic song of
his own composition. It was a sort of autlphonic
arrangement for a mother and her boy, ending
after each verse with the refrain, “ Not there, not
there, my child.” The first verse was as if a
barrel organ had gone on the spree before it began
to grind out “ Gold the Port ” and “ Nancy Lee,”
combined. The second verse was -considerably
worse, having a distinct resemblance to the noise
which mignt oe expected from a lunatic playiDg a
bag-pipe to three tom cats in a fowihouse full of
Shanghai roosters. At the third verse all the kids
in the stalls and gallery began to howl, the theatre
resounded with fieryaad fierce objurgations, such
as are flying around when two mobs of monkeys
are boxed by their drovers; and yet the singer
warbled on through another verse before he fled
from the stage. Percy, at the piano, admitted
afterwards that he never had passed so anxious a
five minutes, except on one previous occasion
when he reiused a drink in a ’Frisco wnisky
saloon, and dodged six revolver bullets before the
firing ceased, and has ordered a suit of Kelly
armour in readiness for the next occasion when
Scott may require his services as accompanist.
<* * * *
The “Glass of Fashion ” was not a very
huge success at the Melbourne Bijou, ana
“ Betsy ” has displaced it. This is Betsy's second
appearance on Melbourne boards, Fred. Marshall
having introduced her to notice at the Princess,
some four years ago. Mr. “Punch” Burnand,
when he adapted “ Betsy” f>om the French, des-
cribed his work as a three act comedy. Many
people would describe it as a farce. No matter-
farce or comedy—” Betsy ” is amusing, and, which
is even more important, strictly proper, In spite
of that suspicious French origin, we were not
calle t upon to blush once during the three acts.
How attentively we listened for a single sugges-
tive line, in order that we might take up our hat
and flee, none but omseWes can guess. The strain
on our stage-oar was somathmg fearful.
ti »
It isn’t necessary to explain the plot of
“ Betsy,” and, if it were, we shouldn't be equal to
the task. The comedy suits the company, two or
three of whom have to say and do much about the
same things that they said and did in “Nita’s
First,” or “ The Magistrate.” Once again
we have Miss Watt Tanner as a iond
and fussy mamma, Mr. Boucicault, tne younger,
as an irrepressible “ boy,” and Miss Trevelyan as a
pretty auntie. A nice looking aunt is, next to a
volati'e young sister-in-law, Nature’s choicest
gift to man. A fellow may weary of his wife, of
the above-mentioned female relations— never. But
we are wandering from the point. Mr. Bouci-
cault’s juvenile aspect and mercurial manners
adapt him for such characters as Dolly Birkett.
He played as though his heart was in the work.
The boyish abandon with which he perched him-
self upon his mother’s knee, was positively infec-
tious, that it was. We fancy that incident inspired
many young men in the house with an ambition
for the stage. Mr Titheradge bustled through
his old part of Captain M’Manus in artistic fashion.
The Captain, you may remember, is one of those
selfiah wretches who deal gently with their owm
little peccadilloes, but are as severely moral as a
Presbyterian parson where the “missus is con-
cerned The complications brought about Oy
these conflicting traits in the Captain s character
have a lot to do with the fun of the piece.
* * *
Messrs. Flemming and Hans Phillips helped
to keep the ball rolling, and Mr. Brough fairly
“ knocked ’mil ” as Dawson, the hopeful Doliy a
tutor. Fred. Marshall, we believe, was the original
Dawson in Australia. As’ We didn’t see him we
can’t swear that he wasn’t funnier than Brough.
But we’d like to swear. Then there si Betsy—we
are positively forgetting the heroine. Miss Bouci-
cault was Betsy, the serving maid who fraudu-
lently procures a written promise of marriage
fiom Master Dolly, and means to make him act
acc irding. It is Miss Boucicault’s good fortune
that she doesn’t look waspish enough for the par.'-
Such a pleasing person as this Betsy woulan t need
to use artifice ia procuring a promise from the
“ Noting master.” He’d propose to her once a
week,* gud if she preferred him to the baker s
man—why, she’d marry him and raise Cain in the
family circle- And, by the way, we thought
Dolly showed execrable ta te in throwing over
Betsy. However, c hacundson gout, as we used to
say in D üblin. Miss Meta Pelh&rtf was well suited
in a small part, but two other fresh hands, taken
on to complete the cast, play the very raeksns
with the tout ensemble,
m* * *
George Rignold had a very successful
wind-up at the Melbourne Opera House. Miss
Kate Bishop made her re-appearance In the
Banks ” for the closing week, and the people re-
joiced thereat. Miss Bishop is as great a favourite
with Melbourne playgoers as is that other Bishop
(shortly going home to fill an important engage-
ment at Manchester) with churchgoers. A tablet
in memory of Milton suggests to us a rhyme:—
bishops have in Melbourne won all hearts;
Each worked for pieces, but in different parts ;
Tae man, as preacher, earned an honoured place,
Tae actress, too, instruction gave in grace.
Though one depart, we need not go astray—
The other still can teach us—at the Play.
Uncommonly neat. According to present ar-
rangements Miss Bishop will appear in Sydney id
“ Called Back.”
•* * *
More joy. Miss Ada Ward arrives by the
John Elder for a tour through Australia. Since
Miss Ada Ward lasit gladdened us with her presence
our form has matured somewhat, but we think
she’ll know us again. We hope so—down, little
fluttering* heart, confound you! Her beat per*
formanee in England of late years was that of a
gihsy servant, in “The Squire.” Miss Ward
brings with hBr a drama .sailed “ The Main Hope.
Mosg of our yigittfrs have » main hope. Its
money.
Kf * «
Mrs. Langtry proposes, according to latest
advices, to visit Australia in 1887. There is no pro-
viso this time:—
Dear Lillie, when will you come overlthe ocean ?
Fair feminine masher of newspaper fame;
We doubt very much if you have any notion
Of coming out here on the same little game.
Pray, purest of Lilies, let up on that racket,
Don’t promise to come here in year eighty-seven,
For time is but fleeting-one never can hack it—
By that time, fair Lil, we may all be in Heaven,
Or Hades, or gaol, or srtoh situation
Where care curls our forehead aad wrinkles our
Come at odcs, while we hold on this earth occupa-
tion;
Not ours is the future; we only own now.
* * «■ *
Madison Morton, the octogenarian author
of “ Box and Cox,” wrote another farce last year,
which was played for tbe first time on the «ch
December. The venerable author was called be-
fore the curtain at the termination of the piece,
which bears the awkward title of “ Going It.”
*® * *
Joe Emmet is repeating those acts of folly
which have ruined his reputation" in the colojiies
as elsewhere. On the night of November 27 he
and several of his company appeared in Pennsyl-
vania city in a state of liquorisuness. They were
promptly and energetically hissed by the audience.
* * # *•
An amusing incident (n©vr expression,
this) occurred during the rendition (thersfs ori-
ginality!) of a “Faust” extravaganza i tt Dublin
some years ago. During the piece a very stout
Mephistopheies had to “go home.” There had
apparently been uo rehearsal of this performance,
for when he tried to siDk to the abode of the
demons, it was found that the space was not com-
prehensive enough. The demons below tried to
pull him and the mortals above tried to shove him
down, but still he stuck until a deep voice from
the pit gleefully roared out: “ Well, boys, it s good
news, anyway—hell's full!” and then, accepting
the situation, the management rung down the
curtain and postponed the actor’s descent to Pur-
gatory to a more fitting time, or, perhaps, only to
a more “flttiDg ” trap.
It is when looking at the sites and the
sights secured by the Homan Catholics for their
cathedrals la Australian cities, notably Sydney
and Melbourne—that the full force of semper eadem
comes home to one. In Sydney, the other day. a
secularist lecturer flippantly remarked, by the
time St. Mary’s was finished, the followers of
Tom Paine would be in a position to take it over
and turn it into a “ Hall of science.” This is a
pleasant prospect for those to look forward to
who, in order to raise the sacred edifice, allowed
their daughters to wear tights and swing on
horizontal bars. At St. Patrick’s, in Melbourne,
one of the towers is to be called the GooTd
Tower,”in commemoration of the Archbishops
escape from O'Farreil. Even had O’F. been a |
better marksman, the tower would probably
obtain the same name in commemoration ot the
Archbishop s martyrdom. Thus it will be seen
that when a name is decided upon it is a matter ot
little moment whether a bullet finds its billet or
not. And now it is proposed to call one of the
protuberances of Melbourne new English cathe-
dral the ” Moorhouse ’’ tower. Is it visionary to
suppose that by the time our grand-children
meet to vote for a Federated Australian do-
minion, a re-christening will have been demanded,
when Goold ana Moorhouse will give place to
names of men truly great?
The Burke and Wills monument has at
last been removed from its commanding site at
the eastern end of Collins-street, Melbourne. A
gentleman wrote to the Argus, expressing the
modest hope that the names of the explorers will
be carved upon the monument before it is re-
erected ia its new resting place. He stated that he
had amused himself by asking passers-by if they
knew the names of the figures, and not one in ten
eouldgive him a satisfactory answer. We sin-
cerely trust that the suggestion of the Argus
c irrespondent will be adopted, and while they are
about it ’twould be well to specify which is which.
We ourselves have never known that for certain.
Many times we may have blown a sigh for
“gallant Burke” at the unmoved effigy of the
ssif-saciificing Wills, and vice versa. The people
who can discriminate Between the figures of the
illustrious twain become fewer every year, and it
nothing be done in this matter, Burke ana Wills
will get hopelessly mixed in the hereafter. This
must be attended to. Only the other day we heard
there was a movement afoot to erect a statue to
Dailey and Lord Cariogton. Suppose they were
carved in marble —his Lordship as he appeared
when addressing the wharf-laborers, and the divine
Bill clad in Soudan helmet and sword—without a
word of explanation on the base of the statue.
There mignt come a time (for the greatest men
are soon forgotten) when the figure of William
would be mistaken for that of His Excellency the
Governor, The thought is very painful to us.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a superlative tome
and anti-dyspeptic cordial with a pure spirituous
basis.
When happy birds, with joyous songs,
The breezy morn salute,
How nice to go to Suinmerfleid
To gee a masher suit I*
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a good medicinal
beverage for regulating the organs of the body.
B:-' sure you obtain Wolfe’s.
Oriental Gold
Great Sacrifice!
Immense Reduction!
THB
ORIENTAL GOLD GO.
BEG to draw attention to the REDUCED
PRICES of their
MigiilM Jewellery!
OBSERVE PRICE LIST BELOW.
Ladies’ Handsome Orienta Gold Alberts, 10s, 155,.
17s 6d, and 30s each
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 4s and 6s per pair
Ladies’ Choice Necklets, 6s each
Ladies’ Choice Necklets, best American Plate, 306
each
Ladies’ Elegant Bangles, 4s, 6s, and 10s per pair
Choice Lockets, 5s each
Handsome Gem Rings, 4s and 8s 6d each
Wedding and Keeper Rings, in Solid Gold, Is 6d
each
Ladies’ Handsome Lockets, 10s eaeh
Ladies’ Elegant Crosses, 4s, ss, and 6s each
Ladies’ Brooch and Earring Sets, from 5s to 16s
Thimbles, warranted Sterling Silver, 3s 6d each
Gents’ O. G. Watches, Hunting, Open-Paced
Crystal Glass, and patent Keyless, 30s
warranted 3 years
Ladies’ (same as above,)
|ar* These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and Jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses .. .. .. ... El 0 0
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
jewelled, and compensation balance .. 15 0 0
Rotherham’s celebrated English Patent
Levers •• •- .. £4 10 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance .. £5 0 0
The celebrated Waltham Watoh, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses.. .. £2 15 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance.. ... £4 15 0
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
! performance is forwarded with eaeh watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph, £5 0
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
grade £6 0 0
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
full jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket .• ••• •• ••• •• £8 10 0
We import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected—about 35 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £lO.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 4a
each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Rings, half round buckle
flat broad buckle, engraved, good luck rings
3s 6d eaoh.
Gent’s richly chased engraved and plain Solitaire
and Link Suites, 3s, 4s, 6s, and 6s 6d per set.
Same as above, only haxf sets, Is 6d, 3s, and 3s per
Best American Patent Spring Solitaire Suites,
5s per set.
Gent’s elegant Seals, 4s each.
Gent’s Elegant Compasses, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alberts, 6a each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold handsome Scarf Pins, Is,
6d, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s, 3s 6d, 4s, 4s 6d, ss, and 5s 6d eao
Very best American Pencil Cases, 3s 6d each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Match Boxes, 4s eaeh.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Sovereign Purses, 4s each.
Richly engraved Bracelets, 6s each.
Handsome Bracelets, beautifully jewelled, Bs, 10s,
12s, and 14s each.
Broooches, Brooches, Brooches, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 6 3,3 s,
3s 6d, 4s, 4s 6d, sa, 5s 6d, 6s, 6s 6d, 7s, 7s 6d, Bs, 8s
6d, 9s, 9s 6d, and 10s each.
PLEASE NOTE.
All goods will be sent post free, with the excep-
tion of the watches, orders for which must be ac-
companied with an extra amount of two and six-
pence to defray postage expenses. Send in your
orders early, as the goods must be sold, and no one
should miss this chance of procuring the beautif u 1
gems at less than cost price.
Noth thb Address :
The Oriental Gold Co.,
474 Ssorg® Strs&l, 1
OPPOSITE THE MARKETS.


BRIEF MENTION.
How to get stout. Buy it.
Mr. Ower is one of the latest candidates
for the Viotorian Parliament. It is a good name
for a legislator.
The Melbourne milk carters’ strike is the
latest phase of Trades Unionism in Victoria. We
suppose the pumps will strike next.
We suppose Henniker will be made a
Baron next—Baron Heaton of Heatonville. What
joy it will be for the Cockney wags to twist that
into Baron ’Eaton of ’Eatonswilll
Lord Augustus Loftus left the impress of
his talents at St. Petersburg, anyhow. They have
n TM-E_gf< & ■
1. He loved her passionately, and he had just been accepted. 2. At his request she gave him the bracelet from off her arm as a love token . "I will wear it round my
heart,” says he. “It may impede the circulation, but no matter.” 3. He had promised to take her to the Pantomime at the Royal, but found he was rather short of "tin."
so thought there could be no harm in pledging the bracelet. After all, love is made up of pledges. 4. He goes home to dress, and 5. Is at the Theaire (the appointed pl[?]
of meeting) fully half-an-hour too soon. He spends the time in admiring himself in the mirrors, 6. At last! 7. "Look here, young feller, we can't pass you in with this,
8. FINIS.
a pudding named after him there. He composed
it in one of his moments of inspiration.
When Sir Samuel Wilson heard that
Heaton was about to be knighted, he said—“ What I
Heaton! That fellow, Henniker! Then it’s time
for me to go back to sheepwaahmg.”
If the municipal authorities of Coburg
(Vic.), alias Pentridge, feel inclined to re-chrlsteu
their suburb after the recent tragedy, they will
probably call it Port Hacking or Hampton
Caught.
“ Black eyes are indicative of passionate
ardour in love.”—
It may be so, Thady, thou reasonest well
Of ardour in love may the darkened eye tell,
But if glided alone by our too feeble light,
We had viewed it as sign of bad guard in a fight.
A kanaka jumped off the Maryborough
mail train the other day when it was travelling at
full speed. He intended to alight at Kanyan. He
alighted on bis head. He crawled promptly out
of the hole, and subsequent travellers mistake the
indentation for a prospecting shaft.
WHY?
If Heaton were knighted,
This thing can you tell—
Why not then John Davies,
And John Squire Farnell?
Garden Honey as well ?
An exchange announces that a local cele-
brity “ received a broken leg while mustering some
cattle on his run.” We would like to know what
it was a broken leg of, and what he is going to do
with it. It is only carpenters who receive broken
legs—of chairs, for instance, after a Waterloo
election meeting.
It is positively awful to reflect that any
harmless young man (we ourselves, for instance)
might have had the misfortune to travel In a rail-
way carriage alone with one of those Miss Hamp-
tons of Melbourne. Picture the result. Young
lady “dzzy.” Sereama for guard. Harmless
young mau in custody. Five years and 20 lasses.
A. paragraph in a Melbourne paper, com-
menting on the incorrect use of tee word “angles”
inanotaer paper, says sententiously: “But why
angles any more than triangles, or snowbirds, or
parallelograms?” Why, indeed? Or even snakes,
or dogs w itn a head at either end of them and eye s
of lire? The writer probably meant rhomboids,
which the hilarious printer translated into "show-
birds.” Shall wo risk if? We will. The printer
was himself rum-buoved at the time. [This way
madness lies.— Ed. B.]
First London Costermonger (to second
ditto, entering into hotel bar. and looking round):
“Come on out o’ this, Bill. This ain’t no place for
a cove as respects hisself.” 2nd. L.C : “But,
why ? ” Ist. L. C. (with scorn): “ Why I Can’t yer
see one o’ them blooming colonial knights a-
standin’ at the bar ? ”
There is a hero named Smith in Belfast
(Vic.), who has saved 13 people from watery graves.
He fished a clergyman out of the briny here In
Sydney some time ago, and was presented by our
Humane Society with —“a cow;” no, a bronze
medal. Wonder what that glorious institute
would give if one were to land a bishop ? A bone
collar-stud, likely.
One of the telegrams concerning Henniker
says he is knighted “on account of his distin-
guished services to the colonies.
We’ll say one thing—now he’s in his regalia—
We've oft admitted it—
His most distinguished service to Australia
Was when he quitted it!
The representatives of the other colonies
at the federal Council are grieved and hurt be-
cause the Tasmanians did not provide sumptuous
accommodation for them. Ail the hotels were
crowded with visitors over altar salubrity, and
several august delegates had to meander the town
in search of a boiler or something. They were at
last obliged with a shakedown at a Hobart hash
foundry Fa>m the bitterness of their whine we
infer that it was a temperance boarding house.
An Alhury telegram says “ A wild man
perfectly nude, and covered with long hair h a a
been seen in the ranges near Koetong.” o’ddlv
enough, the next piece ef news is that the olflofir.
in oharge of the Albury detachment of the Salvsi
tion Army has been missing for a fortnight
There is, of course, no connection between thn
two Items, Hair like that would never grow in »
oouple of weeks. *
A girl at Timaru (N.Z.) has rather a poor
opinion of newspapers generally. At a recant
scholarship examination she had to write an essav
on the subject, and the sum total of her knoyr
ledge was comprised in the statement that, “News"
papers are very useful for announcing births"
deaths, and marriages, and what increases their
usefulness is that they are very handy for rapping
up parcels.” Her relatives subsequently expljjjly
that she had only recently come from s ,
where she saw nothing' but the Herald aim
“ We regret to learn,” remarks a conte®
porary. “ that a child of Mr —- has passed a
to a better world.” The English of tbis 9
child died. Why regrets should be exprefsea «(
the dear departed has gone* > a better wm ' r ol
are at loss to eomorehend. Perhaps the wra tW
the paraurapa regrets the eircinnstaaoe o“ g
ground that t iere js no chance of bis evero
the child again.
A London paper says that the (iaugbL
of the Prince of Wales when last in 88 a
“ looked pah, ilahby, and heavy-eyed, as we**
trilie disagreeable.” In the good old. t t«
heads of the editor, proprietors, and Stan u*


naoer in question would have been grinning from
the spikes of Temple Bar for less than this. There
«re many worthy persons among us who believe
ft would be well if those good old times were baok
again.
“ The Hon. W. B. Dailey is, par excellence,
the polished censor of humnugs.” ThisMs what
the KCHO says, Upon the self-admitted fact that
he is a snob himself, Thackeray bases his right to
criticise snobs. If you want a really trustworthy
opinion on the points of a pair of boots or of
,5 11 k7&j*£~E
ha *h <f
ad *Z , **A " r^
3 tlje Lfl( >g > ] bf0 otii
<^S r , 4et S^f
L-jo'n Out
Po in
WoR. X
W" I{
(v
„ Tln ,, Mrs O'Hoolihan « WMhe ? <or the
2 toSioArtlst. who shall bo aameless.
3 . And bere you LX
O’Hooliban m the act O’H. dift-
faithful likeness of himse belonging to
zzisriz: - *«“ ■* “
» 6. “ Villain ! behold I
I your work ! ,fl he I
howled between, his I
clenched teeth.
4V
c/
*v v V
V
& **y
7 But our Artist was not a roan to be trifled
wit h. Seizing Mr. O’Hoolihan he stands bim in a
corner, in a most painful pose, while he makes a
careful and painstaking study of him for his forth-
coming great work, entitled, “A Colonial States-*
man.’ 1 Revenge is, indeed, sweet.
cuffs— anything,
pantaloons you naturally go to a shoemaker or to
a tailor So. if you desire an opinion on humbugs
whv, of course, you—, Ves, we believe the
Echo is ri#ht.
Some «f tne clerks in the Colonial Secre-
tary w Office are seriously thinstag of putting in a
requisition lor a newer supply of fietia-giass" s.
The antiquated telescopes now in us * are not sut-
floieotiy powerful to give tne clerks in the upper
stories of the building close perception or the
ladies’ toilette* on reception days. It is, more-
over,' 1 considered that a few of the trees in the
Government House reserve might be judiciously
pruned, and thus afford the ten-to-four toilers of
the Snivel Service a more extended view of Lady
Carington’s visitors.
A footman shot himself dead in a London
music hall the other day. The flunkey was a man
of some intelligence, and when some “ Great,
Only, Unrivalled Comet-CorMque ” came to do a
third turn, this poor wretch remembered that he
had a pistol in his pooket, and fired-at himself.
He felt doubtful about being abie to pot the fellow
on the stage, perhaps. It is surprising there are
not more su eioes in music ha la c na.deriug that
yo i can’t lumoer through me pertor-ua oe-for
me no s T«auk g -od mss! one can always s eep
oil his suioid <1 mania at church.
the Rev. Mr. K a . of Albert Park, Mel-
bourne, knows why Dr Moornouse -as offered
tme see oi Manchester. He says troublesome times
are pending for Anglicanism at home, efforts are
'neir.'tr made to separate tne Cnurcft trom the
mate? and Victoria s Bishop was called to go into
tS breach and fight fSr his side. We do not think
.Tames will feel comfortable in any kind of
breeohes after wearing tights so long. However,
once again is Australia in the van to assist the
mother country in her hour of need. Up with the
spoDge, ye partisans of disestablishment.
There is an aristocracy even in crime. In
Me Ibourne, the highest circles among the criminal
classes are almost exclusively composed of wes-
te n Australian expirees who. according to the
testimony of the detectives, have t profound con-
tempt for the local burglars and house-breakers,
. , them As
and will not work in conjuno ion with them. As
au these importation from Western Australia
oajue out from the old country, this i.ot iaj
crushing s-« ism .m n«t vei talent.
•ve cannot even.prod ce a cu.^, ar to • o npote
with iff't Europe 1 It is a cruel tta.au nt.
This is how the use of a type writer war
resented by the customer of > Manchester firm:
•‘lwantyouto understand teat yj>u neednt_pmt
letters sent to me. I < D . aa .
my edXuo"“ Mhny an S
be only too grateful If his correspondents would
avail themselves of the type-writer. Only when a
man has wrestled with a pile of scrawled over
paper for an hour, and stood on his head to try it
upside down, does he sufficiently envy the indig-
nant correspondent, who “ can read writing—even
yours.”
The young Empress of China is said to be
learning the maaly art of self-defence. We won-
der what the E uperor thinks of it. It will be a
new and refined joy for the courtiers to see the
Brother of the Sun and Moon ascending his thro a
one morning Holding a oeeUteak to ore tbri.e-
Jiius'rious eye a id «■*» deavouring to rqu'nt oisr-
nsfledly over u> swollen nose with tbe otb.r. By
wav, this b-uggcst'* to u t» it Larry F <ey
might make a rapid fwrtuoe,-how iw tm f > jou
h a b'O-’ set, by op n! v box sal on ,n Pekin
ana organising & pugiostio tour through tiv* pro*
yiooes of the Middle Kingdom.
Justice’s justice appears to be pretty
much the same all over the world, exeerix up
Queensland way,and there it to be even a


trifle more so. A few days ago a kanaka was
treated to a month’s seclusion lor stealing a bottle
of gin, and now we learn that one “ Richard
Anning has been fined £lO at the Charters Towers
Police Court for abducting a gin. As Richard is a
J.P. the Bench was duly asfonished at his conduct.
One was also fined £3 for aiding and abett-
ing the aforesaid Richard ” We therefore perceive
how much more valuable gin in a square bottle is
than gin in a ’possum skin or blanket.
By exhibiting their skill in producing
sudden stoppages, some of the -Sydney motor
drivers enjoy a small modicum of fun at the ex-
pense of timid passengers in the hindcara of trams
preceding the jokers. The fun consists in coming
up behind a stationary tram, shutting off steam,
and applying the brake within a foot or two of a
oar full of passengers, and bringing the motor to a
fall stop about an inch from the buffers in front.
On Friday the j oke was considerably enhanced by
a driver slightly overshooting the mark, and
crashing through the staircase and platform of the
tram in front of him.
Numbers of bares have made their appear-
ance around Waratah, and “it is hoped that
sportsmen will refrain from shooting until ample
time has been afforded for breeding,” says the
Newcastle Herald of 20th January. Well, the
Pastures and Siock Protection board, Sydney, are
only offering 2s. 61. each for hares’ scalps. But it
would probably give 33. for the scalp-lock of the
noxious animal who wrote the original of the
quotation as above. Wait “till ampk time has
been afforded for breediag ”? Ample time to be-
come a clipper-rigged, copper-bottomed A 1
nuisance is what the apology for a newspaper
scribe meant.
Here’s a hint for our next Soudan war:
“ The Royal Theatre at Belgrade, in Servia, has
been closed in consequence of most of its com-
pany being called away to the war. The intendant
of the theatre has been appointed manager of the
fever hospital, and the stage manager was killed
in the battle of Slivnitza.” We could spare Alli-
son; Rlgnold would be the very man to head a
storming party “ once more into the breech, dear
friends,” only the Arabs wear no breecnes. The
only drawback is that if our next sanguinary war
resembles our last, no one would be killed,
although there might be some mortality from
stomach-ache. Better reserve our heroe3 for em-
ployment in our own intestine disorders.
"The bride walked on the arm of her
father.” That’s an item from a country paper,
which gives a description of a fashionaole wed-
ding, and the performance took place in a church.
Now, if it had been in a circus there would have
been nothing extraordinary about the business,
but it seems that sensation scenes are at last re-
cognised as paying concerns by the pious crowd
How would a trapeze Derformance, by the parson
in full canonicals, fit in as a commencement for
the sermon, or a Sheffield Handicap for the Sunday
school boys held in the churchyard after the first
Icssod, answer ? We don’t make any charge for
these suggestions, but it ia a certainty that there
would be not even standing room in the church
where they were adopted.
The strike mania is extending in a par-
ticularly healthy direction. The incumbent of a
St. Kiida (Melb.) church sought to dock his choir
of some of its privileges The revereod gentle-
man, in short, ocj eted to aa increase of “ inflec-
tions ” in a certain portion of the service. He
delioitelv hinted that some of these inflections
were inflictions The mortified choir retoited
that if they ciuldn’t “ infb-ct ” as seemed to them
bes„they’a “ strike.” Awiul to relate, they did
“stiike.” But ’tis not the disaffection of tha
choir that we are exuding over. Not at all. Tne
thought occurs to us that possibly the parson will
“ strike ” the next time a rumpus occurs. These
dissensions in the Church must be enoouraged.
When saints fall out, sinners get—left alone.
The divine right of undertakers to charge
■whatever they choose for our little wooden
ulsters end “ trimmings” is sternly upheld by the
Melbourne Age Speaking of that thrilling
tragedy at Coburg, where a poor little girl was
lacrificed at the eit.ar of hysterical virtue, the
Age man censures Mr. Hampton, sen., for “ trying
to beat down tne undertaker’s charge for the
funeral in the room where his dead child was
Ding.” This is rough on Mr. H. The reporter
should have found fault with the Coburg Kirby
ior sticking on the exa. in the presence of the
corpse. The most practical way of paying respect
to toe dead is to »8k a modest figure for tne privi-
lege of ourymg ’em. We shrewdly suspect,
though, that the Age man has a relative in tte
trade.
Evidently the cheap drinks movement
initiated by sundry pub icaus at Rockhampton
does not find favour witn tneir brethren farther
south it the following par. from a J unee paper ia
correct:—“The answer of our publicais to the
threat to boycott tnem if they do not concede
Jourpenny drmks to the ‘l-cos,’ i.» ‘No sur-
render.” Their customers seem determined to
take the most sorsible course, for: “It is
jumoured that those woo took partin the recent
*fourpenny drink meeting’ contemplate starting
a club, wherein drinks will be supplied to the
members at a slight advance (sufficient only to
defray expenses) on the original cost.” That club
■will likely have a large membership, and the ob-
stinate honifaces of Junee will find out that the
value of a thing is just what it will fetch, and no
more.
For yews an eccentric Englishman atten-
ded Wombwell’s menagerie round the world—never
missed a niahe in witnessing the tamer go into the
lions’ den to put the animals through their per-
formance. His pertinacity was at last rewarded.
He was present when the head Jion, in a fit of
jocularity, bitoff the keeper s nead. Similarly, a
Victorian rustic, with sceptical leanings. Pas
••ttended every lecture and sermon given by
Bishop Moorhouse. But this is what ia wrung
trom him—
“ To teach me alt tis meet for man to know—
Strike off the gyves of ignorance that bound
me
You came, preached, Dctured, chided; now you
go
And leave me just as wise as when you found
mu.”
There wss a meeting convened by the
Mayor of Waverly last week to discuss drainage.
The meeting did not come off, hut sometoing else
did. Two “fathers of families,” who hud been
having the drainage first and the disouesion after-
wards. nut outside the place of meeting and edi-
fied a rapidly-increasing crowd with an exhibition
of mutual vilification of a highly entertaining
character. What time ihe choir practising at a
neighbouring convi nticle were so sadly disturbed
by the wordy warfare withoutthat they hurriedly
completed the lit le hymn on wnich toey were
engaged, and streamed out of church to take a
passive part in the bloodless battle on the street.—
Let dogs delight to bark and bite,
For ’tis their nature to;
But aldermen should never fight,
Nor drink too strong a brew.
The Tam worth Observer says “ ‘ A
would-be poet’ writes: Believing that I possess a
faculty for rhyming, I am ambitious to become a
poet. As I have heard a great deal about the
poetic license, I am anxious to know whether or
not it is necessary for me to take out one of these
licenses, and, if it iB, whore shall I apply for one ?”
Nothing easier, young man, than to be a “poet,”
and you don’t want any license. Just skim over
a few of Swinburne’s, Tennyson's, Longfellow s,
and Whittier’s effusions, and study the obituary
“ potry ” of the h ooze Then sit down and hash
together as much as you cu recollect of what you
have read, publiso if, and you are a t>oet.
Some idiots will believe you and inflict your
t<-ash on their suffering fell >w citizeas by recit-
ing It. A how, that, is the easiest way we know,
and if you - h ok we are not right, just ask Siaden.
By a strange irony of fate the Criminal
Law Amendment Bill, which General Booth was
so attx our t see passed, has been put tn force
sgAinst a member of the Barmy. He played the
big drum at Hallelujah meetings, and she— blesa
her b-arr.l—was a sweet yo-ag creature of less
than hi Hum.a-ns. with a oiiA u*i«e eye aid a
paitia-i y for being dropped in ihe f-.untain. She
had a female friend, also saved, and the drummer
had a companion who glorified the Lord with a
wind instrument. An abduction case is the result
of this godiy combination. But don’t let us be
too hard upon the drummer and his amorous
“ pal.” The two girls came to them after a “ holi-
ness meeting,” and announced that they intended
to “ stop out all night.” Salvation bandsmen are
not supposed to be Josephs. What could they
say ? Only that they intended to keep the young
ladies company. And they did. Halleiujah!
This is positively the very last appearance
of a snake story in our columns this season. A
Northern doctor whilst travelling through the
bush surprised and killed (as he thought) a black
snake, and carried it home ia his coat pocket
Daring his first leisure moments the doctor rolled
his prize up very neatly, tied a label round its
neck with a scientific name as lone as the tail of a
kite scratched thereon, and then placed the reptile
in a bottle of brandy and corked it up. The grog
seems to have revived the “ varmint, ’ for during
the nieht he drank up the greater part, pushed
the cork out of the bottle, and wriggled out into
the yard, where he was found the next morning
dancing madly round, spitting, hissing, and snap-
ping in all directions, apparently at an invisible
attacking army of parti coloured members of his
own species. Pity Eve didn't treat the original
snake to a toothful out of Adam’s private demi-
john before he had time to canvass for the apple
contract.
Justice’s justice is often remarkable for
its originality. What Sir James Martin, or Mr.
Justice Murray would gravely deliberate over for
days, and finally commit to a higher or fuller
Court, would be settled out of hand by anv one of
the lately-appointed J sP. At a Northern
(N.S.W.) township recently a drover was charged
before two of the tangle-bearded tousle-headed
Silons who keep court up that way, with leaving
his camp-fire burning, to the danger of the pro- I
perty of Her;Majesty’s lieges thereabout residing.
The drover called his cook as a witness to prove
that the latter had caused the fire. The Com t de-
livered judgment this way:—“Well, Mr. Drover,
you’re dismissed; but (to the cook) you're fined a
quid.” The cook, let it be remembered, was not
charged, but that little omission made no difference
to those bucolic Daniels. They had come there to
fine somebody, and by the ghost of Thamis, they
weren t going home without doing it. These be
thy judges, O Stuart!
The Postmaster - General lias received
several schemes and devices for the extermination
of rats in the General Post-office. A proposal
from Inspector deymour that he should pro
nounce the rats unfit for human consumption and
order them to De destroyed, has been approved of
as far as it goes; an ingenious conception emanat-
ing from the fertile brain of a junior operator for
the introduction of wires into the rat-holes, and
the consequent destruction of the incursive
rodents by electricity, has rejected, on the
ground that the corpses of the slain could not be
removed; and a proposal to poison the rats by in-
jecting water from tne drinking fountains at Hyde
Park has been declined for ths sime reason. The
only plan likely to be carried into practical opera-
tion is the proposal that the P.M G. himself should
visit the basements of his office, and deliver a
series of after-dinner speeches, which, it i? con-
sidered, will have suoh a demoralising effect upon
the obnoxious intruders as to cause their imme-
diate stampede from the Post-office.
The writer of “ A Short Btay,” in the Mel-
bourne Age, complaining of extortion and inci-
vility in Tasmania, has received a “ slating ” from
an insurance agent, who refutes his aspersions as
groundless and spiteful. Many visitors assume an
air of superiority, and maki a point of depreciat-
ing everything Tasmanian, from “ victuals and
drink ” to local beautie3—but a Victorian once met
his match in the late John Webb, of Webb’s Hotel.
This man grumbled systematically at everything:
“ Call these cherries, we have currants larger In
Victoria! Our grapes are twice the size of your
plumsi” One nighi, on retiring he observed
something moving in his bed; investigation proved
it to bo a large live crayfish, which ne attempted
to remove. As a spring trap is mild compared
with a crayfish grip, his pious exclamations soon
brought the landlord to the room. Tne lodger
angrily demanded; “What do you call this?”
"That,” said Webb, “is a Tasmanian bed-bug,
have you anything of the kind larger in Vic-
toria ? ”
There are some people wlio like to look
fashionable even when dsad. You remember
those Hues of Pope’s:—
“ ‘ Odious in linen! ’Twould a saint provoke,’
Were tae lant words tnat poor Marcissa spoke.
‘ No. let a cbarmiog chintz and Brussels race
Wrap my cold limbs, and snade my lifeless face;
One need not, sure, be ugly when one’s dead,
Aud, Betty, give this cheek a little red.”
We are reminded of these lines by reading of a
man who was loand dead in the Melbourne Trea-
sury Gardens, the other day, with an eye-glas s in his
pocket! It is said he died of starvation. Y°t he
stuck to his eye-glass to the last. But he couldn’t
stare Death out of countenance, poor devil.
A correspondent, writing to the Melbourne
Age. asks why “an Australian Church of happy
promise and impoeiag presence and dimension ” is
not formed? We can tell him. Because the
people of Australia are quite satisfied with the
number of Churches they have already. Every
sect known to the English-sneaking races—except
a few started in the Unit d States which began
with a on|(jramme of conquering the world one
day and wire heard of no more the next—is repre-
sented out here, and has its priests, and parsons,
and pastors, and naojandrums of all kinds, sup-
ported at the expense of the public. We want no
more ekv-pilots. If what we have are not suffi-
cient to show us the way to Heaven we will have
to find a way ourselves. The priests of the future
—we speak not presumptuously nor without re-
flection-will be Editors, and the Pulpit of the
Future the Press.
Just at it time when Australian wool-
growers a>e discussing the necessity of opsning up
fresh markets for their Droduce. it is amusing to
find this par. in the London Beferee:— “ The
great wool-brokers are bewailing the state of
trado, and flannc*! difficulties in this branch of
commerce are imminent. The great drought in
Australia, and the heavy mortality of sheep are
the causes of the crisis. In this trade at present
toereisa perfect illustration of the proverb —
Much cry and little wool.” In our ignorance we
had imagined that the trouble was the other way
round, and that limited demand was responsible
for low prices ruling in the London wool-market.
But very likely tae par. was only concocted for
the purpose of workffiginthat little joke. Let us
get in our little joke It’s a conunurum. Why
does a broker invariably do well in a bad season ?
Because he’s sure to “get his wool off.” Bee ?
We believe in Australia—in its present
and in its future. We think that when many of
those around us to-day are tuning their harps and
hanging oa simi-tones before the “Throne,” this
great Southern land will be the home of millions
of freemen. But it is when reading such stuff as
the following, from a Sydney journal, that our
brck arches, and we feel dangerous:—” The enor-
mous realised wealth, the pro igal profusion of
precious metals, the extensive fields of coal iron,
copper, and tin ore are things to be grateful for,
&c„ &c.” Hard labour is said to be a thing which
every one admires, but which everybody is
desirous to depute to somebody else. So with
mining. Every N S.W. colonist boasts of the
“ prodigal profusion of precious metals,” but if
you apply to one of them for help in opening up
a promising quartz reef, or developing a stiver
lode, the invariable answer is—" As the thing is so
rich, don’t you think you’d better stick to it your-
self? I’ve sworn < if mining.” Within a few
hours of Sydney are ‘ Dr spects ” whicn, if fou id
in tne neighbourhood of Ba larat, Sandhurst,
or Stawell, would be floated into compan es a
day. It is this complacent bahblo ab ut the pro-
fusion of minerals, without the least desire tog've
a helping band in proving or disproving their
existence that makes us bark. The prodigal pro-
fusion of “promoters” with rich specimens in
their pockets, and yarns juit as rich la their
mouths, likewise encourages us to yelp.
The N.S.W. Premier’s Spe[?]ch,
(BY THE BULLETIN PARLIAMENTARY POET.)
At nearly five on Wednesday week th e Speaker
took the chair,
And round him all the statesmen proud 1 of our fair
land were there;
Gray Mudgee, o’er whose hoary head I i&s past a
storm of years,
And Burns, the Upper Hunter man, wdso knows
not kine from steers;
Young Spring, o’er whose ambitious he: id no win-
ter's storm shall pass,
And Heydon, who was sent there froi u the sun-
dried plains of Yass;
And corn-cob Garrard, who was sent by Balmain as
“ for Works,”
Glanced proudly round, as if to Bay, “J’m he who
never shirks;”
And next the Hastings-Manning man —he J. H.
Young is hight—
Sat Grenfell’s chosen, Vaughn, to swell the voices
of the knight.
These, then, are they who’ll rule our land for
lengthy term or brief,
And follow to the bitter end the vet’ran Hnight of
Beef.
But are these all ? Sweet people, no; throughout
this rhyme must run
One name, inscribed on leaf of gold—our Dan., the
only one;
’Tis he, the jaynial D. O’C. (Sir D. may he soon ihe,
Or e’en, by way of change, he might be then Sir
C.O.D);
To him with eye of steel-blue-grey we look, tl tat
it shall be . ....
Long days ere his party may go right" up a bloom-
ing tree.” , „ „
Stern glanced he round the crowded House, and
gazed upon his chief.
As who should say, “Dread not your foe 3, oh
ancient Knight of Beef,
For by the dust of ancient Greece and Tipperary’s
sod,
I’ll fight and die beneath your flag, or bttst—so
help me—Moses.” , ~ .
Then clasping with his dexter hand his Him alayan
brow,
He kissed the Book and took the oath—he us Post-
master now. .. _ ...
Behind him came the “ following the Mir tisterial
tail:
They took the oaths and signed the rolls. Did any
of them quail ? , .
Not much; they're used to taking oakhs, that
mumble-jumoie bunch;
And as for rolis-great Bnakes, just view them at|a
counter lunch I
Some trifling business beiag done, Sir John rose
up and said:
“At present, legislative gents, of this crowd I’m
the head:
Those gentlemen who’ve joined my bsind have
stumped their districts through,
They’re all returned to Parliament, and. hope to
draw their‘screw.’
As you well know, December last for me the
Guv’nor sent,
And asked me if I felt inclined to form a (Govern-
ment;
Gur country was in direst need, I could not well
So gazed along th’ opposing ranks to see whom I
should choose „
To join me in the heavy task the Governo r had set
And, as you know, friend Parkes and me first had
a ‘ heavy wet.’ „
I gathered round my lunGhoon friends -gaze on
them, you will see
The men who’ll rule the country, ancH in turn be
ruled by me.
I waited on Sirenry first, and asked him did he
think _
He’d like to take a hand with me. Hi a answer was
a wink;
A most uxpressive lowering of the eyelid he
achieved,
But remarked, he ‘ hoped on that acc sunt I would
not feel aggrieved;’
And, pointing out the obstacles I’d. very likely
meet,
He wished me such a kind ‘good day,’ and left a
vacant seat. , , _
Tnen Wisdom, who, some time ago, Knocked Dave
Buchanan out,
Informed me tnat at present he trould not be
roundabout; . ~
He’d shortly leave for England in the eager search
for health, .
But otherwise he’d gladly snatch his share of
public wealth. ~ . . , , ,
Tom Garrett once I thought would join, but he,
too, shied away;
And Foster, whom I tried to get, was on some
other lay;
Young sSuttor, too, the Bathurst man, he wouldn’t
join my crew; , , ,
Like all the rest, nis health was bad, he longed for
Europe, too— „ ,
I see he s ill is writing for the Sydney papers, and
I h ive a s are wd suspicion th at he ii i their * Foreign
Land,’
Their * O wn,’ you know, in Greece and France (and
on the strict Q.T , ......
I think their * foreign letters ’ arc all dished up by
F. B).
So many wanted Europe that I lost my head, and
Told each’particular party he could go to
LWe cannot allow this rhyme; the words herder
on the confines of profaaity, and of this Sir John
ia never guilty.—Ed. B ]
Garvan, he of E len. too, considered for a while,
And at length refused to join me, with a most ex-
pansive smile;
The Northern genius, Fletcher, was willing, on
the whole, , , J
But nis little ’ private bus’ness had got quite be-
yond control. .
He wished me every kind of luck, and said he d
aid my sway— . . .
He wished he could have joined me, and then, too,
wished me ' good day.' „ „ u ....
When Burdekin and Reuwick and R. B. Smith de-
I haa to take a patchwork team, the best that I
could find;
I cannot point to any as a bright and shining star,
But, folks, I’ve got a Ministry, by , and here
they ate.
You want to know our policy; well, we feel that
way toe. ...... , ,
We sort o haven't got one yet, but—tell you what
Just let us run the country for a littio while and
We 8 can't make any Sbigger mess than Dibbs’s
Miuiatry,
And when we’ve picked some plums from out the
little Treasury bun,
If we don’t suit your notions, gents, why, then,
give us the ‘run-’ ”
For lull an hour the ancient man gazed on the
Speaker’s eye
And talked, while members softly hummed, “We’ll
shuat him by and bye.”
He spoke of laud and land laws, and from point to
point did roam, ..
And still they thought he’d “ yabber ” till the
“brindled oow’s come home•” ,
*Ttvas much ado for nothing, till Dibbs voice was
chairward borne, . . „... TT
And his silv’ry tones suggested, this House do
now adjourn.” .
On Tnursday next, the 4th instant, again the
House wut meet, . . . ...
! And each expectant member on his bench will
take hi* seat.
And we, of course, with pen prepared, will be on
baud to see , ,
The Premier as he toes the mark and tells his
policy
In this colony, where climatic changes oc-
cur so often, a gentle stimulant like Wouprs
i Schnapps is needed.
CORRESPONDENCE
L Correspondents who awe neither name nor nom-tfe-
vHN/me cannot expect to have their com-
munication! noticed.]
“W.G.J,” (Clifton): A striking yarn, but too
tropical —“ M.” (Yass): Will possibly work it up.
“ Sarah P.”: The main question is, “ Are you a
person ? ” If you are, the director of the Domain
can fire you out if you orate “not wisely but too
well.”—“ J.M.”: Who on earth are you? To
carry out half your threats you would need to be
a combination of steam-hammer, torpedo, Dan„
0 Connor, and Ncsey Bob “Lorando Jones”:
You say that the Parramatta police are more
generous than those of Sydney because they let
Sarah Parker preach. That’s all rot. Send Sarah
along here, and you will find there’s not a peeler
in Sydney who will dare to touch her. Armed with
a cotton umbrella and her native eloquence, we
would back her against a whole squad of “traps”...
Liberal”: You are wrong in your estimate of
the two senators. Sir George Grey, of New Zea-
land, is as much above the Hon. Graham Barry, of
Victoria, as Heaven is above earth. Sir George
has always been a good, thorough-going, consis-
tent Radical; Berry has posed as a Radical, but
was always ready to go whichever way the wind
blew—"S.N.”: Can’t make out what on earth
you are driving at. Can you call and explain ?
“ T.W.”: The only original Yiddishire. By the
only original imbecile, we presune “Maud
S. : Sorry that cur estimate is once more
below yours....“ Science ” : Some irremediable
faults of construction prevent our acceptance.
“ Toady ” (Toowoomba, Q.): There is much reason
as well as originality in your letter. Have posted
you our leader of June 28, ’B4, which will, we
think, give you the exact information required
“Constant Reader” (Silverton): Glad of letter,
which will be of u5e...." Oyster Johnnie”: After
much consideration, declined. Teat address will
always be sufficient “A Working Man”:
Thanks. Always welcome. There is no ’orty
pride about us, although when a man once sent us
a case of whisky we immediately returned it.
Fact “ Chas. Emile”: Don’t play poker any
more if it prompts you to write such poetry
Wrote it on the spur of the moment ? Not a bit,*
you wrote it on 16 shandies....“T. J. Denny” (Mel-
bourne): Will touch up and publish “M. G.”
ißundella): You have got hold of one solid truth,
anyhow—that the noblest loyalty is that which re-
gards the welfare of the whole nation. The word
loyalty is now generally understood to mean only
loyalty to a sovereign. This is wrong; a man can-
not be loyal to bis queen if he is disloyal to the
majority of bis fellow-subject 3 “Etranger”:
Will keep it—out...." Bearskin ”: Sorry that we
cannot accept. Very lew persons have seen the
original article. Those who have done so have
already detected its venom and injustice...." w
Moore”: Thanks; but the yarn was originally*
told about Ham’s wife and Noah’s Ark. Besides
it is too sultry... .“D. M‘D.” (Delegate) : Style’
too heavy, we think. However, try. Nonpubli-
cation would explain the result “D. H.”( Cler-
mont) : Have condensed slightly “Constant
Reader” (Silverton): Will you kiadiy send ad-
dress ? “W.H.E.”: Tnanks; much obliged..
“ Murrumbidgee ” (Wagga): Should be glad if
you could send us address of the secretary of the
local committee interested in the adjustment of
taxation “Rough on Rats”: “Rough on
Editors ” would be a more suitable title for you if
you are often taken that way. We use one of
your par5....“C.H.8.”: Your effort requires a lot
of consideration. ...“ASM”: Will inquire and
advise you ..“Rescue the Perishing’ : Impos-
sible to impute corruption of suen a kind upon
your unsupported and indefinite statement....
“ Vixen Good par., nut not worth 13 months in
Darlinghurst —“J. H. Wood”: Excellent yarns,
all of tnem. A proof of this is that they appeared
in The Bulletin about two years ago. You
should cut your original matter from Older files.
We might poseibly forget than. Better still, don’t
trouble to cut them at all. We have a lile handy.
.“Mentor”: We did not trouble to burn your
screed. We just let it fall from the window and it
buried itself ia the paving stones “Arthur
W.”: You say, “Oh, where shall my soul And
rest?” We can’t tell, but it may soothe you to
know that your screed finds rest—in the basket ..
“J. O. Byng”: There was a glow and a sparkle
about your poem, It borrowed this from the gas-
jet. You uso beautiful paper; it burns very
readily, and leaves a white ash ..." Oyster John-
nie”: Wilt look through it for next week....
“Haatoniana”: Will probably print.
The latest of London ‘ rages” has been
the petting of those queer Bohemians-the artists’
“models.” Since earliest days of artistic study
the best figures and faces have been wanted for
this work. The real “grand old man” is seen at
his grandest only in an artist’s studio, where he is
possibly earning better pay than he could in the
Helds or in his fisherman’s boat. The elegant
young lady model-pretty of face and voluptuous
of figure—is possibly unequal to reading and writ-
ing; she prefers sitting and standing about,
clothed in her complexion only, to bossing a sew-
ing-machine or serving as lady’s maid. It is
fashionable now to have one of these artists’
“ models ” for show at 5 o’clock teas. Surrounded
by a bevy of inquisitive women of title, “Her
Grace” or “my lady” out of the model
all that she can be got to tell of “life in tae
studios,” and what her feelings are when wearing
a g'.rdle only, oracting as Hans Braitman's maiden
‘ mit nodingson.”
It is much better not to drink at all if you
cannot obtain tfae genuine Wolfe’s Schnapps.


A correspondent writes:—“Your amusing
or in last issue, telling how one cattle-lifter got
p son with another, reminds me: Years ago, on
fhia side of the Murray, lived two families-the
nnffera and the O’Shakes. Between them lived a
Rafter The difference between mine and thine
never fully comprehended by either the
nnffer or O’Sbake family, and thus it fell out that
Iviov lived chiefly on beef cut from the squatter’s
battle shot in the yard in mistake for their own.
Wfili ’time rolled on (you have doubtless noticed
+hat’time alway ‘roils’), and the two families
throve and flourished like a eouple of green bay
trfips on their annexation racket. One day O Shake
ran in one of Diiffw's caives for veal. Duff came
along iust as they were going to shoot. With the
a d of a friend he secured his poddy and subse-
quently gave the O’Sbake crowd in charge for
flattie-stealing. ‘Sundry, that is to say several
cattle, sheep, pigs, goats, dogs, swine kine, or
D(r)uhbed!
THE GHOST OF WALTER COOPER: “RISE UP, SIR HENNIKER!”
(“The London Chronicle states that Mr. J. Henniker Heaton is likely to be knighted for Colonial services."-Cable to Sydney EVENING NEWS.)
other, the property of Fake Duffer, to wit, one
calf.’ So ran the indictment. Now, the magistrate,
who knew the parties, resolved to prove the case
or disprove it in one act. His gigantic brain (he
oad a brain, though only a J.P.) evolved a scheme.
He ordered a muster of O’Shake’s run, and re-
quire that the cattle should be placed In the police
paddock. His idea was to have the prisoners
orougtic before him and compelled to pick from
the cattle the mother of the calf, t he muster was
haade and the result was: one working bullock,
wo heifers, a steer, and one milch cow. The
Prisoners each and all swore to her maternal
claims upon the calf, which ad interim had died,
the family ware discharged without
rue slightest blot upon their escutcheon. It might
ue as we n to remark that they had arranged a
umster prior to that made by the magistrate's
maer, and the result of that muster was ' tailed
S,. 8 considerable distance by their own people.
O Shakes and Duffers grew more intimate
after this little turn up, and rapidly acquired
collossal fortunes. It would not surprise me to
hear of their Henniker Heatonising the old coun-
try at an early da‘e.”
There has been a great controversy going
on in the Melbourne Argus lately concerning
Original Sin. A few feeble persons wrote against
this genial doctrine, and suggested the possibility
that the Almighty Creator might be too good to
send people into tne world steeped in iniquity and
then damn them for all eterriitv because they did
not turn out saints. Immediate y a score ot tru-
culent pens were dipped in gall and stabbed those
unfortunate persons wherever there was a whole
spot left in their moral anatomy. “ What,” said
the score of pens, ‘ no original sin—no hell-no
Devil? Blasonemy unutterable!” Then the de-
fenders of the Faith went on to show that they
I knew what was about when He created the
human race—they knew He had no intention of
letting more than a few samples of it enter into
glory. It is needless to hint that each man of them
considered himself a predestined sample. There is
not a doubt in our minds about one thing, and that
is that the great majority of mankind are still
Devil Worshippers. Call the Power they worship
by whatsoever name they please it is still the
Power of Evil. Most of them would not care a
rush about entering Heaven if it were not exclu-
sive, and would look upon the Almighty as of
very little account if He did not distribute damna-
tion witn a liberal hand. One of the most violently
amusing contributors to the controversy is a cer-
tain Mr. D. M Berry, who says defiantly in his last
otter:—“ If anyctoe wants me to surrender the
Book of Genesis, let Mm come and take it.” There
is a rumour among the ungodly that this gentle-
man keeps that venerable work in a burglar-proof
safe and hires two men and a bulldog to watch it
night and day. It is a pity. We should like to
have been able to read it. We have heard t
abounds in humour:—
The ship Afghan brought to Melbourne a
cargo of Chinamen the other day. It was dis-
covered that the majority of them were travelling
on transferred naturalisation papers. In addition
to this, a charge was brought against the captain
for bringing 63 more of them than is allowed
under the Act For tjaeh of these he ran a risk of
being fined £lOO-£5300 in all—not counting other
expenses which fail upon the victim of law. It
never struck us before that any Chinaman under
the rank of a mandarin of three buttons could be
worth £lOO in any connection The curious part
of the affair was, that some of the Chinese, who
were 10 years of age, tried to pass themselves off
as young fellows of 17, and some of 17 years of
sge reversed the process. It is probable they
would have been successful—for few Europeans
can arrive at the true age of a Chio;iinan until he
passes his fourth decade—had there not been a
Chinese interpreter on board. They couldn’t fool
him, whatever they might do with the played-out
Caucasian. Talking of this, reminds us of the
saying of De Quincey that he could newer look
into the face of a young Chinese without a feel-
ing of awe—the burden of countless ages looked
out of his solemn slanting eyes There is nothing
—we speak from our own exper etce now-so
hard to stare at as the eyes of a Chinse baby. You
begin by feeling a kind of pity tor the little yel-
low mite of an inferior race, and you gaze at him
with a superior semi-amused expression. But by
degrees you begin to see that his thoughts are not
witb you. You begin to feel with a creeping sen-
sation that he is looking back acrofs the dim ages
to a time before the first stone of the Pyramids
was laid before N'ah built his ark— perhapt
before the Aryan Adam rose up majestic out
of the red earlh and commenced pruning
apple trees and making love to Liletb. An or-
dinary European ba >y is hsrd enough lo st*re at
in his momenta of meditation, but be is ’-‘8 a wax
figure tn the Sphinx compared with a Cathaian
child. We have got a tittle out of our track, but
wa are fond of rambling along in a leisurely way.
We may siy, In conclusion, that the captajn of
the Afghan was lined only £lOO instead of £5300 —
the penalty for one being considered sufficient
under the circumstances. We should have ima-
gined the proper way of doing would have been
to fine each of these 53 Chinamen the £lO poll tax
for having entered tne co ony without proper
papers, and then compelled t e company that
brought them to take them back again. We were
cut out for legislators, but the cold world has gone
on ignoring the fact so far.
To Mr. D. M. Berry.
(A Few Lints)
We notice, Mr. Berry,
With considerable glee,
That you are anxious, v- ry,
The old Tale of Creadon
And the Doctrine of D imnation,
Believed by all should be.
Well, we think you needn't hurry
(Vou may think our statement rough),
Needn't fret yourself, nor worry—
If God gives men their wishes,
As you are so officious,
You’ll be damned, p'r’aps, soon enough.
It is singular how blind people are to their
own interests, by selling imitations of the genuine
Wolfe's Schnapps.
It is said that some people bare no con-
science. It must be true, or WOLFE'S SCHNAPPS
would not be pirated as it is.


OUR
CHILDREN'S
COLUMN
The editor writeth:—
Please, Mr. Artist, use your ablest skill,
And start the maids who write this page to fill;
Last week the hoys unfurled their tongues and
wrote,
B-P now to little girls we space devote;
An air of short-frocks, bread and jam, and dolls,
This week shall hover o’er Our Children’s Cols,
So, Mr. Artist, please you power diplay,
And limn for us a little girl to-day.”
The Artist draweth his idea of a girl, and plaoed
It at the top of a column.
Then the editor apostrophiseth the girls as per
foregoing sample:—
“ Come hither, dear Jemima Jane, and Rose, and
Emma, too—
Lay down the sticky bread-and-jam, and write
us billets-doux.
Give us your chat on polities, ’tis oertain to be
wise,
And tell us of the cumuli which decorate the
skies.
‘ Give it a breeze,’ tell us about your sweethearts
and your frocks—
Your cats and dogs, and stockings, too, with
pink or scarlet clocks.
Lay back your cars and grit your teeth that all
the world may know
That you can write with any kids the Jernil
crowd can show.”
The little girls thereupon gird up their stockings
and forward two lorries loaded with letters and
sketches, from which we select a few. The first is
the work of a very young but abnormally en-
lightened contributor. She writes :
“ Editor Bulletin.— Dear Sir,—l am a country
girl, and just 17 years old. At Christmas, my
sweetheart and I came to Sydney to enjoy our-
selves. We went twice to church on Christmas
Day, and afterwards spent a short time In the
cemetery reading the inscriptions on the tomb-
stones. They are very nice, and I eDjoyed myself
very much. Johnny and I have never been in
town before. Please, Sir, can you tell me what, is
the matter with all the Sydney young ladies. They
are so strangely shaped. Johnny says the top hal
of them is like a sugar-loaf turned upside down
and the bottom half like a kangaroo with a pack-
saddle on. Some of them have very pretty faces,
but I noticed on the boat that the red of their
cheeks ran down with the perspiration, and they
grew very tallow-candle coloured before we got
to Chowder. Dear Sir, what is an improver, and
what do you mean by sawdust limbs ? I think the
Sydney youDg men are very rude. I was passing
the post-office on Anniversary Day, and you
know how wet It was; well, some young men
called out * She’s got ’em on.’ I couldn’t help it
WHAT HAPPENED IN SYDNEY.
if they did see; I had to hold my dress up to keep
it out of the mud. Johnny says if he had hoard
them, s.mo of them would have wanted a wuoduj
overcoat on pretty soon afterwards. I enclose my
photograph. Please tell me if lam good looking*
—Yours, affectionately,
“ Eva Dunn.
“P.B.—Don’t write me any letters, Johnny is
(sft. lin., and weighs 3401b5. I send some pictures
I drew of what I saw ia Sydney.— E.D.”
[Your drawing is good, but you are not pretty.—
Ed. 8.1
“ Editor Bulletin.— Dear Sir,—We live in a nice
terraoe at Redfern. Ma says I can write to your
Children’s Column. Ma and I agree very well, so
do pa and Polly. Pa is such a humorous man.
Polly is our housemaid. Last week pa tickled
Polly when he was passing her on the staircase*
A t> o i>\ TtK I- fiTjA
Tto*
He said that was a political situation. Then he
chucked her under the chin, and ma saw him; she
chucked him under the ear with a mop, and he
fell down the staircase. He said that was an indi-
cation of the fall of the permanent head of the de-
< \J FAL'- V f ' fN
HSP~Of r * r - m
<e a/ r
partment. Polly don’t live with us now. I send
you two drawings of what I said. They are num-
bered 1 and 3. I am more than seven.—Yours
truly,
“ Mary Walker (aged 8).”
“ Editor Bulletin. Dear sir,—l _ee you
printed my brother's laßfc letter, and lam glad to
flee you had so much tense. Gracious! I’vb had a
time with that baby. What do you think’s the
latest raoket ? Blessed if I ain’t been bundled out
of ma’s bed and made to sleep on the floor. Pa
says he’ll get me a cot this week, but I am not to
be cot with that kind of chaff. There’s going to
be a funeral leave our place next Wednesday at
3pm The new kid will occupy a prominent posi-
tion in the procession—he will be in the front car.
I’ve readied up a pea-shooter and I’m going to
shoot sago at his face; when I get a chance at him
I’ll volley him. You know, when his face gets
marked with the sago they’ll think it’s measles and
send for the doctor. That’ll settle him. I know a
doctor nearly put me away when I was young.
You’ll come to the funeral, won’t you ? I say,
don’t forget to write a leading article showing the
injustices a young lady has to labour under when
there is an addition to the family and the ingrati-
tude of parents. Why, the fun I’ve given my
folks this two years—when I think of it and their
ingratitude. Oh! Can I write a verse or two-
blank verse this week :
What is ingratitude ?
’Tis the serpent’s tooth,
Th’ envenomed fang
Which strikes the treacherous blow;
The murderer is kind,
The robber virtuous,
The hen-roost thiof is good
Compared with him of former gifts unmindful.
Shall I, too, suffer
In mine early day
The look askance,
The harsh ‘ Shut up I’ the slipper ?
Not me, you bet,
I’ll reinstate myself,
And shortly put away that other nipper.
“ Annie Parkes (aged 3).”
[Your verse is very blank, Annie—as blank as
that of a parliamentary land agent when he finds
he can’t get his little 50-guinea fee. In fact, it is
blank rot.— Ed. B.]
“ Editor Bulletin.— Dear Sir,—l c u want littel
boys & girls 3 rite 3u. igo 3 skool evry da, wioh i
like very much. I am sevral ears old. I got 1
dog. Pa calls him Parlyment cos e aint got enny
tale and e’s blind and silly. Par ses this Guvment
is lik a hedless dog without n’y tale and its body
maid in 2 sossagus. I bav a nuther dog, ma kalis
im Bird-eat Smith, she ses e’s 3 luvly. Pa ses e’s
3 luvly 3 liv, e ain’t no use. We live 100 & 6ty three
miles from Bydney. My bruther takes The Bul-
letin, e takes it out of Smith’s let her box b 4
thare boy rides up 4 the male to the fence ware
the maleman leeves it. Wot do u think ov im ? I
av got a pritty littel flour garden, i s>m 3 ears old, i
told u sevral ears b 4, that was fun. Do u like
potted tung ? Pa ses if mar’s tung was potted e
cud njoy a bit of it. Ma nocked pa out with a flat
irun last week, e sed she eoedn’t bake bred like is
A t\/VP SKIIVTjPfeK'
<rv /vo uo
mar. Mar and pa ain’t speekin now, iam having a
time, pa bys me a drum to tease mar and mar got
me a doll wot squeeks to tease pa. It is nice to be
alittelgurl, don’t u wish u was 1. wot is the
square root of the tree of nollidge, i think i have
struck the tree.—Yourß luvingly,
“ Louise (aged 3).”
[Your brother is very clever, Louise, but there
are plenty of other people who take The Bul-
letin the same way that he does.—Ed. B ]
“ Editor Bulletin.— Dear Sir,—My par is a
parson and iam par’s dorter. My mar ses i’m her
honey, my name is Sunny, igo to Sonday scool
i no awl about adameneve and kaynanabel, and i
can reed jennyses, exadors, and juteronomy. par
dus growl wen there ain’t a good klectshun on
Sunday; he ses the peepil wood sooner pay for
damnashun than salvashun. He tole mar las son-
day nite that the klecsbun woodent ardly pay for
the sigars he smoked after dinner, and he coodent
play any nap this week, i ast him wy he smoked,
and he tole me to go to the burnin fire. Ino ware
he bys his surmuns, hes got a ole barreful at ome,
wen he reeds won In church he chucks it in a
nuther barrel, and wen the first barrel is emty he
turns the uther won upside down and begißS agen.
We thro all the emty bottels into the Chinymans
yard. Par as a kask in his bedroom; its got
vinygar rcte on it. He dus like vinygar. Wen
any pritty gurls call at our plase par stops in the
'We# k AC/ ?URI^UKL%^iL
.■rori room, and torks to thorn, and wen any ole
wimmin kum he ses, ‘ Mrs. Smith will entertane
WH gl *
°£A
you. I have to prepair my surmun for Sonday.’
Then he gose in his room, and has sum vinygar
and a sigar, and reeds a yellow kuvvered book.
7Z P%eP ARj
/<> Hu
r^£R /v W
Par ses if ever i tell ennywon about were the
vinygar kask is heal dance the polka masurka awl
over me. I aint going to rite ennymore.—Yure
truely,
“ Sunny Lynda Smith (aged 8).
“ P.S.—I send some drawings all about my pa.”
“ Editor Bulletin.— Dear Sir,—l am glad little
folks can write for The Bulletin. My pa says
The Bulletin only lets clever people write for it.
Pa don’t write for The Bulletin. I ain’t
frightened of pa. Ma’s boss up our way. My name
is Lulu. lam going to school. I go two weeks
one day, and one day another week. Pa says I’m
a dull child, and ma says she thinks I take after
his family. I have such a pretty mare, her name
is Nora. Pa says the Mare of Sydney is named John
Young. What a funny name for a mare. I
couldn’t hardly say, ‘Get up, John Young,’ if I
wanted herto go. Ma says pa’s a fool. Pa is also
a member of Parliament. Has a man got to be a
fool before he can be a legislator ? Pa called ma a
%x,r^y^c%"
woman the other night, and she hit him in the
waistcoat with the baby’s bottle, just as I’ve
drawn him. Pa has to sleep in the garret. Ma
says he's an awful bore, and snores like a hog.
I have got a sweetheart named Edgar Black*
I am going to marry him when he gets rich.
Then we will be Black and Green.—Yours truly,
“LULU GREEN (aged 5).”
This case of exact regard to the proprieties
of tbe eight-hour movement is worthy of more
than a passing notice. A carpenter was employed
driving a screw in a Government office door on
Friday last, when the witching hour of knock-off
time arrived, and instantly packing up his traps,
he cleared, leaving the screw barely fastened in
the wood. ThBt night the door fell down, raising
a lump as big as a flrebell on the head of a passing
clerk, and smashing 30s. worth of property. The
only parallel we know to this is that of the con-
scientious carter, who, being e? gaged to deliver
300 bricks at a e rt in building, drove up with his
load, and bad just eucoeetHd in delivering ten
bricks wnen the welcome six o clock tocsin
soui .ded Being fully aiiv: l to the fact that time
and. tide wait or no men—except, perhaps, a very
rich man—he deliberately drove home with the
remaining 190 bricks, remarking, »itb a firmness
that did him honour, that a society’s rules were
nothing unless properly carried out, and he’d go
where the voice of •• dooty ” called him. Such
men as these are a credit to their sex, and we can *
have to® many of them.— at a distance.


Political
Points
The country Press’ is inclined to ridicule
i.i_r* nresent N.S.W. Ministry on the score of its
composition. If the engineers of the rural land
organs will remain in a state of coma for a few
wJfehs or less they will have an opportunity of
Jevilingtbe Cabinet makers on the score of its
decomposition.
There is mourning araong Yiotonan mem-
h«rs of the Australian colony in London. The
Victorian Government is about to ievyanincome-
tax on absentees. The income-tax will be levied
on whatever portions ot their money are remitted
to them trom the colonies. This information
pleases us better than rum-and-milk.
At the Federal Council Assembly in
Hobart on the 26th instant, on the motion of the
H on Graham Berry, a telegram was ordered to he
sent to Her Majesty the Queen, expressing the
loyalty of the Council to her throne and person.
After this. if Berry isn’t duobed Sir Graham when
he goes home soon as Agent-General for Victoria,
it’s a caution. What else hai this moribund politi-
cian been aiming for since he deserted the Radical
party? # „
John E. Williams, a labor-candidate for
Hampstead at the late English elections, writes to
the papers about the expenses ot the ceremony.
He says:-’* I know not to this hour from whence
the money came, and, as a Revolutionist, I care
not ” There is a hatful of significance, or none at
all in the word “Revolutionist” in the above
connection. Anyway, some of our labour-candi-
dates in N.S.W. would be glad if they could look
hack on the “ expenses” with as gay a heart as
Mr. Williams.
He had heard that the office of assistant
Postmaster was vacant. Speeding at once to an
influential Sydney man about town, he asked tor
a letter to the jaynial one, in which his suitability
for the situation was to be fully set forth and tuo
granting of the office made a personal favour to
the recommender. The letter was at once written
and handed to the applicant, with this remark:
“Now, if you want that bidet you take that letter
rouad at once, for, by thunder! as soon as they ve
done speaking that Ministry’ll be out. T ox
populi.
The Scottish Highlander, the organ of
the Crofters, urges the Crofter representatives, of
whom there no w about half-a-dozen, to take a leaf
from Parnell’s book, form themseves into a party
in the House of Commons, and harass whatever
party may be in power, unless the Government of
the day will introduce and pass a bill which shall
embody the programme of the Highland Law
Reform Association. Had Lord Salisbury remained
In power, possessing as he would, with the Par-
nellite support, a majority of three votes, the
Crofter party would then have held the balance of
power.
The proceedings in connection with the
interment of the late King AIpDODZO, of Spain,
were grimly farcical. After the coffin was placed
in the vault, the Lord Chamberlain unlocked the
coffin, then, after requesting perfect silence, knelt
down and shouted three times in the dead
monarch’s ear, “ Senor, Senor, Senor I ’ The dune
then rose, saying, “ His Majesty does not answer.
Then it is true the king isdead.” Wedon tbeheve
Alpbonzo would have answered just then even
had Dailey lashed him with a panegyric, or Dan
O’Connor afflicted him with an address of welcome
to purgatory.
Godard, the balloonist, publishes an inven-
tion that will entitle him to rank among the grand
benefactors of the race. His dynamite use ae l air
has a oircumference of 5000 metres, 10 times that
of the military captive balloons of Meudon and
Calais; is applicable for reconnoitring as well as
bombarding strong places, and carries several
guns. The inventor declares that there is hence-
forth no military position, however strong, that
would be able to resist bombardment by an aerial
fleet built on the model of the “ dynamiteuse,
which could carry several thousand kilogrammes
of projectiles and every other description of
destructive machine.
A stranger would have imagined that the
Stuart, banquet was given in honour of toe Gover-
nor or Plan. Bib 1 When they spoke every word was
listened to in profound silence, but when the
guest of the evening was on his feet, it seemed as
if everyone wanted to talk him down —even his
ex-colleagues had not the manners to give him a
hearing. Circumstances alter cases. They Jl
listen now to the H n Dmiel O Connor for hours,
talkiug of his descent and sudden reverses in the
pig trade; while Sandy Stuart, who has neither
place nor promise of place to give away, cannot
be endured for 10 minutes. How great is the
difference between Jaok-in-office and Jaok-out-of-
office!
Moonshine, an English weekly illustrated
paper in the Tory interest, exposes the essential
conception of the Tories in a cartoon intended to
flout the Liberals. An English labourer, who has
»t his back a Scotchman, an Irishman, and a
Welshman, confronts the typical John Bull, who,
In taking off his coat, says: “I thought I could
depend upon you, H-)dge, but if you intend to
take sides with my three enemies (I) there, come on,
the whole lot of you. I’m your man.” Now,
when the English labourer, the Bcotch, the Irish,
and Welsh are represented as combined, whom
does John Bull represent? The aristocratic and
Privileged class against the British nation! Bravo!
Tory Moonshine.
We have repeatedly dealt with the merits
of the Crofter revolt against landlord oppression
in the islands of Scotland. The late general elec-
tion shows how deeo-seated is the determination
of these poor people to shake ,off, by constitu-
tional means, if possible, the tyranny u ider whioh
they suffer. Says Reynold’s Newspaper:—“Even
the hare numbers of the Inverness polling are &i«-
nifleant. The representative of property, the
Tory, got 2031 votes; the Liberal, 1807; but th»-
Crotter, the man of the people, polled nearly as
many as both combined, his votes numbering
3a55. When this is the temper of the whole ot
Scotland, sweeping territorial reforms will be
knocking loudly at the doors of the aristocracy. ’
Continental advices tell us that the Greek
Aset bad “gone into hiding ” to avoid encounter-
higthe naval forces of the Great Powers. Now,
where on earth—or, rather, on »at,er —does a flee _
contrive to hide itself ? Have the Greeks scuttled
Jiheir vessels till the political storm biows over ?
Cr, are they secreted behind the raging billows ?
*ancy the gallant Greek tars, clad in picturesque
Co3tume, singing-
ironclads are our ships,
Hearts of Greece are our men—
The waves we like riding,
But, we much prefer hiding (basso),
The fleets we can't co-o-nquer
Shall seek us in vain.
The Skye crofters lately gave a wholesome
lesson to Lord Macdonald, whf recently visited
"hstralia, and whose deer habitually make free
with their standing crops without any effort on
tne part of that high-handed potentate or his
“Rents to abate the mischief. The other day,
wnen a herd of stags again broke into the en-
closures, the crofters, who were on the watoh,
formed line In tlio rear of the animals, and drove
them into the sea, where they were slaughtered,
and carcases divided as fair prize among the cap-
tors. This fetched his lordship's steward pretty
quiok, and on his reproaching the people witn
their misdeeds, they showed him the damage done
by the harts, reiused all compensation, and told
him that if any more deer came among their corn,
they would serve them the same way.
Replying to a scheme submitted to him
by a correspondent for “ squashing Parnell and all
his works,” Mr. Herbert Gladstone writes: —
‘There will be no peace at Westminster until Eng-
lish parties will consent to aDply constitutional !
principles to Ireland, and give up the useless at-
tempt to govern Ireland without coosidering the
Irish people, 'i’ories and liberals collectively will
not unite to put down 85 members fresh from
Irish constituencies, who, in a perfectly consistent
manner, ask to he allowed to manage Irish aifairs
without impairing the supremacy of the Crown
and the Imperial Parliament. Nothing c »uld in-
duce me to countenance separation; but if five-
sixths of the Irish people wisn to have a Parlia-
ment in Dublin lor the management of their own
local affairs, 1 say, in the name of justice and wis-
dom, let them have it.”
From the reverses suffered by the Tories
in the county elections, an fingli a h Badical paper
deduces that the agricultural laoourer has at last
attempt dto turn on his oppressors He has dis-
covered that the landlords, his ma-ters, are but
men, and a mean set at that While my Lord
Salisbury draws his two pounds an acre per
annum for doing nothing, Hodge, who tills his
Helds, is given a shillings for six to eight hours’
hard labour out of which he has to pay house rent
and support a wife and family. He has discovered
that toere is something wrong in this-that the
men who would seek to perpetuate it are not the
persons fitted to control the destinies of the coun-
try. It has dawned upon him, thanks to the
school boards, that they have but one object to
serve in soliciting his suffrage-to wit, the keep-
ing him in his present state ot helpless dependence
and poverty.
It is on matters appertaining to commerce
and currency that the Sydney Echo is at home,
speaking of a iate suggestion, it says: ‘Mr.
Morris proposes a paper currency, convertible at
the wish of the holder either into cash or bonds.
.... Of course, if there were a financial
panic, and all the banks were required at the same
time to cash all their notes they might be unable
to do it.” This will be news to Mr. Morris It is
just because the interconvertible paDer issue he
advocates cannot be changed to cash at the wish of
the holder that we oppose it. If the Government
had cash behind their notes there would be no
occasion to issue the latter at all. Between a
“ promise to pay.” which can be changed at any
moment into cash, and one which can be ch nged
into an interest hearing Government bond only,
the Echo young man sees no difference. How
lucky some journals *re in getting masters of
finance to write for them I
It is an easy matter with some papers to
change their principles and their polities Ihi- is
not the case with several in Sydney, for it is an
axiomatic truth that you can t change ei'har wb» n
you haven’t got any, but still it is worth noticing
that, a short time ago, the 'Ebaxd an Nkkko
were trumpeting forth their puny pra ses of cne
patriotism of sunny N S.W. Now, hear tn«- little
one:—“The following paragraph from Truth
may be of use to Mr. D. O'Connor, or some othtr
Minister who can talk when the Cabinet is at-
tacked. It was originally applied to the Conserva-
tives of England, but with some trifling amend-
ments it will suit Mr. llibbs and his friends:—
‘ These people cannot be in office for six months
without dragging us into some needless military
expedition. Then they leave the Liberals to get
the country out of the mess, and to provide means
for so doing. History repeats itself.’ ” The Echo
doesn’t—it contradicts itself.
Advanoe Australia! Wright, Heaton, and
Co. to the fore again. Eor years past this fortun-
ate firth has occupied a select little spot in the
Bathurst railway yard at a ground rent so small
that it was barely worth collecting. Not long ago
some patriotic meddlers represented to the rail-
way authorities that the said ground was worth
far more than it was then let for. and so strongly
did they put the case that the Department was
forced to call for tenders for a 12 months lease.
Three tenders were then sent in, and these three
were—Wright, Heaton, and Co., £2O; W. Pascoe,
£7O; and Mugridge Bros., £lOO. The latter, of
oourse, took tne prize, and the great carrying firm
had to cart off their office and about 5000 tons of
wood as well. Had tenders been called for this
ground lease from the first, the Government, even
over a paltry little matter like this, would have
been the richer by something like £4OO or £ooo
There's a heap of difference in the way some
patriots manage their public and their private
business.
Mr. P. M. Salmon, the Liberal candidate
for Footscray (Vic.), has the audacity to describ-
the purchase of Sir FTeury Loch’s summer resi-
dence as a “ joo.” Thus the misguided Mr. Salmon
to the electors—“ He considered Sir H. B. Loch to
be a very ab<e man. and he hud due respect tor his
fair lady, but he objected to hanging a Governor
gdts of this kind simply because he happened to
he popular. Jf Government House was not good
enough for Sir H. B. Locb, it wasiquite time he was
asked to look out »or a summer residence outside
thecoony.” Odds, bodds! hut these are bold
words. Here we h*ve M>\ S. arguing that a pub ic
servant should be treated as a private servant, and
told to look out for another place if be isn t satis-
fied with the quarters provided for him. This is
too much, ana we marvel not that some ox Mr.
Salmon’s opponents recoil from him in horror as
“anatneisc.” An atheist, as all loyal Victorians
understand the term, is a man who aoesn t believe
in a—Governor.
One ol the most curious reasons for going
out on st rike we have yet heard of wtm that given
by the employees at the railway workshops, in
Sandhurst, who threatened to strike because a
workman was dismissed for having organised a
testimonial to a foreman who had previously been
dismissed for intemperance. The name of the
manager who dismissed the man is Pickles and a
pretty case of pickles he made of it. The work-
men, after interviewing this hot-tempered gentle-
man and receiving Ms refusal to reinstate thn
tescimonialist, refused to work. The directors of
the company then met and reinstated the man. ft
looks as if in the not far-off future the working-
men of Victoria. iustead of being employed by
capitalists, would employ them and pay them a
percentage on their capital—and stand no infernal
nonsense from them either. The working-man
will have no need to send out the surreptitious j ug
on Sundays, hut will be able to keep his cellar as
well as the Capitalist—or rather the Capitalist will
then be sending out the jug. It is time there was
some change of this sort.
The diminution in the Liberal majority in
the electorates is by Reynolds' Newspaper at-
tributed to the abandonment of principle by the
Gladstone Administration when it commenced its
shocking Egyptian outrage which led up infec-
tiously to our own Soudan expedition, so much
applauded by the Engl’sh Dories. Says Reynolds:
—‘■ The commencement of all this was the violent
and detestable Egyptian policy adopted bv Mr.
Gladstone, at the instigation ot Sir Charles Duke
and the n ories. The moment he took that step
which Jed to 1 be suppression of the national rising,
to the dispersion of tne soldiery that was ready to
obey Arabi’s orders, to the exile of that illustrious
patriot, the doom of Mr. Gladstone and his Minis-
try was irrevocably seamf. ’ Smngfyisn t it, th*t
a democratic colony like N S W. sh- uld have been,
by one mans love of -‘glory,'’ inveigled into
rushing into arms to support a Liberal Govern-
ment in the very enterprise which disgraced that
Government in tb~ est m uion of its most co* sts-
tfint RUDnorters ? N.S.W. will never be safe until
its peopie have learnt d to dlstc guish its Tories
—such as Dailey—from men horn st y imbued with
the principles of Liberalism.
“Little” Mirams, who was once Berry’s
most faithful and energetic henchman, places a
different estimate on the powers and prospects or
the quondam leader of Viocorian democracy.
This is how Mr, Mirams put it to a Radical meet-
ing a few days ago“ The Liberal party started
Mr. Berry In 1877 with a majority of 05 out of a
House of 80; and now, at the end of nine years,
for seven of which he had held office, he was
about to take a snug billet in England, leaving his
party to squabble about a leader, without a pro- |
gramme, and with an organisation frittered away |
i.y his conduct. Mr. Berry was now leavipg Vic- ,
toria because he knew he was unable now to even
get a seat for himself in this colony ” For our
part, we prefer to accept Miram’s version, and it
is only two or tbi’ee weeks since Graham Berry
nimself told the Geelongese that be was justified
in accepting the Agent-Generalship. since they
did not show any desire to re-elect him as their
representative. If the vacillating Mr. Berry really
thinks he “can again become Premier of Vic-
toria,*’ let bim try it on hia return from Europe,
and he will discover he bas been living in a fool a
paradise—unless tbe Salvation Army is strong
enough to raise him to the Premiership.
The “Irish Emigrant’s Farewell”patheti-
cally tells us, in language which Moore s pen
alone c >uld trace, the bitter sorrow felt by one
who, forced to leave the mnd of his birth, breathed
a sad good-bye to home and its ass jciations. it
Tom Moore had been standing on the Murray
bridge oue day last week he would have had ms
sympathies awakened by a picture as sad and
pathetic as his noetic imagination conjured tor the
■* Emigrant’s Farewell.” Mr. John RogeiS, ot
Namnoota, after 27 years’ struggling as a farmer
in 4 sunny” N.S «<C, has at length retreated lrom
the unequal contest with land laws and capitalism,
and left the labour of half a lifetime as a monu-
ment of wnat energy and industry may not accom-
plish here. Under our equitable and admirably
administered land laws he cannot, though bounded
on three sides by Crown lands, obtain enough to
provide homes for his family. The available land
is in every way suited for the purposes of the
larmer, but under the rule of squattocracy which
obtains the yeoman is not ‘ In it.” John Rogers,
his wife and sons, with their goods and chattels,
have crossed the Murray southward, and pioneered
a movement which will be followed by hundreds
of the very people whom we should protect and
endeavour to retain amongst us. For this we
mey thank the land laws.
Some exceedingly good-natured friend of
Mr. James Service has written to tne Melbourne
Herald, expressing sympathy with that seit-ex-
tinguished political light in the “ calamity which
had overtaken him.” According to the Herald
correspondent, James has ruined his health by
devotion to public affairs, which devotion “must
break down, and fina'ly destroy any man who has
not a large, weli-formed brain of good quality,
much exercisedlin youth, and nourished by study.
Without pretending to know much about the size
or formation of Service’s brain, we should cer-
tainly have imagined that it was exercised in y outh
quite as freely as a lot of other men’s brains. He
had hi 3 way to mike, and he made it. For stu<iy,
} there were his own interests. Nor can we admit
' that a political career—especially in victoria-is
finely to prove Injurious to even the meanest or
cipacitfis. This *ood-natured friend says: . Men
of a certain calibre should not seek to obtain im-
portant public positions involving any strain on
the intellect.” He evidently traces the late Pre-
mier’s “ calamity ’ (which we now hear ot tor the
first time) to an official source, forgetting afi
about the wine and spirit business. The chances
are that fluctuations in tne whisky mamet put a
mucu reater stra n ou James s intellect than tne
duties appertaieing to the Premier»hip. Statistics
prove that the average politician lives half asfong
again as the average wine merchant. He must be
indeed a patriot who takes deeper interest in the
yearly Budget than in his own biennial balance-
sheet. Now, James Service is a bit of a patriot -
but more of a Sotchman.
“Decorations” on time-payment and
without deposit. Such are the advantages offered
by a London “firm” in a printed circular, ad-
dressed in strict confidence to sundry \ ienna
4 • houses,” on whose part a demand seems to be
anticipated. As a proof of genuineness, the firm
appeals to its 13 years’ existence and extensive
connection, especially in Germany. The extent
of its assortment and the low prices are surprising
Sixteen different “ orders,” representing alt the
known states of the world, including, of course,
the ideal patrimony of St. Peter, are included in
the list. The Papal orders even take the first rank,
and are distinguished by their— absitomen— 44 dirt ’
cheapness. Thus the orders of St- Gregory, St.
Sylvester, Christ, and the Holy Sepulchre are
offered at £135 eaon, whereas the Servian Order
of Jakova costs £l5O. The Austrian commodity,
the knight's cross of the Iron Crown at £3OOO, is
the dearest. The firm also procures patents of
nobility, baron’s, and count's titles from the lead-
ing European states at prices ranging from £9OJ
to £3000; Court titles, from the Privy Councillor,
to the equerry, almost at a gift; and the price-list
of honorific titles and distinctions, with diplomas,
is as extensive and varied as a Christmas baziar.
Even such situations as consulates, &c., are pro-
cured ou demand, and intending applicants are in-
formed, in “fat ” print, that tne inventory dots
not exhaust all the g od things obtamab e, since
the firm is continually forming new connections.
F r the benefit of 44 success ml colonists” we qu te
the iwine and address of tbe firm: “B. Moiden,
9 Princess-tquare, Kensington Gardens, London.
a C.M.G.-ship ahou d now be at once secured, by
sub cription, tor Garden Honey. Only, we don’t
know. Tne old man is homsc and industrious,
and hasn t the least bit of the crawling vanity-bug
about nim No, on reflection, Garuen Honey has
done nothing to dt serve the degradation.
A correspondent from the Fagil West
writes an indignant letter to us concerning the
41 ‘aking-uo ” of Irish outrages, ana the unfortu-
nate regularity with which Sydney papers are led
to reproduce these creations of a malicious brain
as matters of lact. With his assertions on this
point Wf are unable to deal. It may ce, as he
alleges, that the local dailies obtain their matter
from the Irish correspondent’s letter in the
Times,— a notoriously unreliable source; and it
may De, as he states, that these manufactured
yarns are reproduced here as true, although
denied by every other London paper. Even
so, that is a matter beyond our sphere.
These remarks, however, lrom our corres-
pondent are worthy of space. He sayi
“Evidently the London correspondent or the
S.M.H. tunes himself to the key in which his em-
ployers like him to he heard. In his letter in *.()uh
January’s issue, the writer appears to be very
bitter because he can find nothing worse against
the characters of Mr. Parnell’s supporters than
that they are poor. Ido not know that the avo-
cations of all are as inaccurately given as are
those of Messrs. Leahy and Jordan, ihe former, f
am personally aware, is a large farmer, while it is
not mentioned that Mr. J. Jordan is a Town Com-
missioner in Enniskillen, for the representation
of whicn borough in Parliament he was but nar-
rowly beaten, in 74, by a landlord named Lord
Crichton. The gentleman who is called D Cully
is sub-editor, and not reporter, to the Nation.
Mr Sexton, who, as an orator, has made his mars,
was taken from the tame desk a few years ago.
If Ireland had not been sending £17.000,000 in rent,
auo £8 000,000 iu taxes across the Channel for so
long a time, she would, doubtless, be able now to
find richer Gilhoclej s and Sheehans to represent
her. Now, however, she has to choose between
such men as have been elected, and the old and
richer representatives of rack-rents and tyranny.
-P. S. O’D.”
“ To-day a working-man member of the
House of Commons is not only an increasing pro-
bability—he is destined to be a dominant factor in
Eagllsh politics. No Duke of Bedford, for in-
stance 50 years hence will be allowed to pocket
the revenues of Covent-garden Market without
paying to the fctate a very substantial tithe, wh t
is inane by ’he people must, in part, at least, be
shared by the people. This is the end and ultima-
tum of democracy, the same democracy which the
•great White Christ’ preached after He had for
yeais supported himself by His own hands as a
carpenter in a little Judean village, and which cul-
minated in the sublime advice, 4 Sell all that thou
has% and give to the poor.’ . . • The utmost
that we hope for is a fair division of the unearned
increment.’ This is certain to bo ours some day,
and that quickly approaching millenium—tor it
will lessen taxation and increase wages—draws
nearer and nearer by every election which returns
more working men to the House. Neither by
lawyer, priest, merchant, or soldier will the battle
of the masses be won, but by the masses them-
selves. The fat Q.C., the retired colonel with
his own relations to thrust forward, the bishop
with his thousands a-year, and the merchant
hoping for eternal monopolies, have each, m
homely phrase, their ‘own axes to grind. Ine
Tories are not interested, never were interested,
and never will be interested —except for their own
dirty ends—in the betienug of the masses, when
Lord Salisbury pays, for instance, a fair inhabited
bouse duiy for Hatfield—to-day it is assessed at a
miserably inadequate rent—and in other ways
shows he has the rea* interest of our class at mart,
wo shall begin to believe that he is in earnest.
But up to the present there is no indication that
tne new Tory is a wbit different from the old self-
seeking one, whose every effort was to keep the
masses back, to keep them under foot, and to
compel their industry to Bupport what John aright
called the * outdoor paupers ’of the State. lhe
fort going is from a London pater, but its sense is
perfectly applicable to Australia. The Australian
n-ople should refuse to regard Robertson or
Dibbs Barry or service distinctions, and demand
of ail candidates—“ Are you Liberal, or merely a
gutter-bred Tory?”
The pigheaded persons who, mistak-
ing sentiment lor reason, delude themselves
into believing, because they wish so to be-
lieve, that the natives of Hiaoostan love British
rule, receive a hard knock irnm Mr, Blunt s re-
cently published worn on India. is an ex-
tract which illustrates the paiDS the conquerors
take to make the vauquished natives love roreign
rule:—” It will hardly oe credited in England, but
in this present year of grace, 1884. no hotel-keeper
in India dares receive a native guest into his
house, not on account of any ilj-wiil of his own,
but through fear of losiDg his custom. ’ Mr.
Blunt illustrates this by reference to “ Mobammud
Ali Rogay, the leading Mahommedan of Bombay.
He had travelled in Europe, and had even so far
adopted our manners as to subscribe to all the
public charities and to drive a four-in-hand. Yet,
happening one day to ask him to dine with me at
my hotel* it was explained to me that this could not
be, at least, not in the public room, ‘lest the English
guests should take offence and leave the house.’ ’
The author continues:—“ln Bengal and Northern
India things are still worse, and I think it’s not
too much to say that no native gentleman, what-
ever his rank, age, or character may be, can visit
a place of public resort, frequented by English-
men. especially if he be in native dress, without a
certain risk of insult and rough treatment. Rail-
way travelling is notoriously dangerous for them
in th s respect.” Mr. Blunt believ s that the
natives are as yet loyal to the British connection
—that is, knowing that independence is impossible*
they prefer British to Russian or other foreign
rule. But if sullen acquiescence in our rule is not
to change into active discontent, Lord Ripon's
policy of justice to the natives must be tarried
out He writes:—“lf our selfish system of
government for our own and not for India s good
remain uijchan'red if we do nothing to s,cure
Indian loyalty, if we refuse to give to the people
that as-uranco of uit'mate selt-government which
shall enab e them to wait in patience the realisa-
tion of their hopes, if we c niinue to tr> at them
as enemies sub sued as slaves to work for uas
men devoid of rights, then it istertain that within
a given time all the external world will appear to
th« Indians under a friendly guise, and Russia, as
being the nearest, under the most friendly.”
The New American Chartism.—A con-
gress of the American league of “Mates” has
been sitting at Chicago, where the following
“platform” was agreed upon, comprising 24
points:—l. The Union to take over and run all
railways, canals, telegraphs, telephones, and other
means of traffic. 2. The townships mommunes,
counties) to take over roads, streets, etc., and
lighting. 3. Publio lands to be inalienable, and
subject omy to lease; all grants to corporations to
he revoked as soon as there is a failure on their
part in the conditions of grant. 4. The Union
aloDe to have authority to issue money. 5. Regu-
lation of forest and river administration on scien-
• tific principles. 6. Expropriation of existing
patents, and throwing open of new inventions,
with national giants to reward inventors. 7. Sta-
tutory fixing ot rent in proportion to the value of
buildings. 8. Provision for public works in times
of special depression. 9 A progressive income
tax, with exemption for small incomes. 10. Com-
pulsory school duty for all up to the age
of 14, with arrangements whereby poor
scholars may he enabled to visit all edu-
cational establishments at the public cost.
11. Abrogation of the laws concerning paupers,
vagrants, conspiracy, and “ temperance,” and un-
conditional freedom of association. 12. Statistical
investigation of the condition of the labour mar-
ket, prohibition of child-labour, and such female
labour as is prejudicial to health, abrogation of
prison-contract labour. 13. Wages payable in
cash, and equal wages to women as to men. 14.
Protective laws for the life and health of labour-
ers, and responsibility of employers 15 Statutory
incorpora ion of traces ut ions. 16 Eight hours a
wo king day. 17 Abolition of the Presidency and
the Senate, election of an executive board revoc-
ab e at a 1 times, on the part i f the House of
Representatives as the sole remaining legislative
b ;dy; anal gous constitutional changes in the
individual Slates and counties 11 communal
se f-gove nment 19. Equal and cirect suffrage
without difference of race, nationality, or sex;
seer t voting; election days to be legal holidays.
20. Bil s to he submitted to the people, acid a popu-
lar vote to be taken on all important votes of
legislation 21 All legislative bodies to be respon-
sible and revocable 22. Uniform (common) law
within the United States, gratuitous dispensation
of justice; abolition of tne dearh-peiaity. 23.
Separation of ail public affairs from re igion; tax-
ation of Church property. 24. Uniform marriage
laws throughout the United States; dissolubility
of marriage by mutual consent with provision for
the children.
* # *
Mr. T. D. Sullivan, editor of the Nation,
has been elected Lord Mayor of Dublin for 1886....
There is great rejoicing in Roman Catholic circles
at the unprecedentedly large number of represen-
tatives ot that iaith returned to the House of
Commons at the)ate general election, there being
not fewer than 83 Roman Catholic members of
Parliament, whereas there were only 60 in the
late Parliament ...The building of the Protestant
Caurcbat Brannan (Bohemia), the stoppage of
whicu was the proximate cause of the 30 years’ war,
has been resumed, after an interruption of 268
years. Three Catholic parishes in Bohemia have
’verted to the “Old Catholic” fold of Bishop
Janssen....Holland, always Republican at bone,
is showing it in the flesh. The working men’s
candidate for Friesland was returned to the Upper
House ov-»r Baron van bohimmelpeonmck with
2006 to 1670 votes. A mass meeting of social Demo-
mats at Amsterdam was lately dispersed by King
William’s police at the point of the s word,
We obs- rve that a steamer never arrives
in p r rt with ,ut the saloon pass mg rs “ expressing’
ih-mstlves eighty *ith the manlier in
which they have been treated < n the passage ” A
g »ud miny of them are unfeignedly grateful to
the cap ain for not havh g ordered them into
irons. As for the purser-artful dog I—he some-
how co trives to pose as a dispenser of the ship’s
victuals at his wn cost. Why the same people
who gaze distrustfully at an hotel msnag r should
(all down and worship a ship's purser, isamys-
t rious social problem. It must be the sea air.
Latent insanity is always developed in mid-ocean.
How many people are in their graves to-
day who would n *ve been alive and well if they
knew the virtues of W olfe’s Schnapps.
Emerson says:—“ a thing to be simple i 8
for ic to he beautiful.” And lo's of people say a
thing of beauty is a joy for ever. Why not when
turoishing get such china, glass, and earthenware,
that cm by its beauty bring to us joy, for we cun
never get too much of it. Bray Bros., 402 and 404
George-streec, are the j jy-sellers.*
All inferior artioles must disappear before
the genuine Wolfe's Schnapps, Be sure you
obtain Wolfe’s.


SOCIAL
At Lady Carington’s last reception there
was plenty of room for ladles to quiz each other s
costumes, as the attendance was by no means so
large as upon previous occasions. To be sure,
there was, with a few exceptions, very little ia
the way of ladies' gowns to please the eye, though
there was much to amuse. Lady Carington was a
complete picture in heliotrope—dress, bonnet,
parasol, and gloves all exactly of the same hue
and that delicious flower itself is hardly sweeter
than she looked. Miss Harbord was not so suc-
cessful in her costume, whieh consisted of a dark
navy-blue lawn, patterned with a glaring white
design; a pale-blue jabot seemed out of harmony
somehow, whilst a small black bat, with crimson
trimmings, seemed to belong to another c >stume
altogether. None but a beauty would have the
courage to don such a discordant costume. Mrs.
Gullett wore an extremely beautiful dress of rich
seal-brown velvet, pannelled with old gold satin,
and over a vest of the satin a jaunty zouave
jacket of the velvet. A sprightly little American
widow, with golden hair and a hornet-like
waist, wore a rich black and white cos-
tume ; the skirt of stiiped black and white
satin draperies, and bodice of black lace;
Mrs. Dan. O’Connor a striking stone-coloured
satin elaborately trimmed with lace; Mrs. Harry
Woods, cream Madras muslin, the bodice striped
with black velvet; Lady Hay, black gown and
black bonnet, with cream feathers; Lady Martin f
green and gold brocade combined with green satin,
Mrs. Richardson, a handsome toilette of dark
green, bonnet of same colour with red plumes;
Miss Richardson, white lawn trimmed with coffee
lace, small white bonnet; Miss Dickson, pale terra
ootta trimmed with dark-green velvet, bonnet of
velvet, trimmed with terracotta plumes; Mrs.
Darley, a handsome black silk and crepe relieved
with jet; the Mieses Darley, black surah dresses
and small black tulle bonnets; the Misses Knox,
cream taaso silks heavily trimmed with lace and
bows of golden-brown ribbon velvet, small gold
wire bonnets trimmed with velvet very stylish
costumes; Miss Mitchell, a handsome gown of
white silk trimmed with goid and white silk gauze
—Tuscan straw bonnet; Mrs. I. A. Josephs, a rich
skirt of black lace and embossed velvet mantle
covered with beads; very heavy, very hot, but
very beautiful; Miss Joseph, a pretty cream tam-
bour muslin frock, high hat ornate with red
berries; Mrs. Angus a pretty pink embroidered
gown, high hat trimmed with clusters of
appie blossoms ; Mrs. Bouverie, cream muslin
trimmed with lace, and shot silk bonnet to corres-
pond; Miss Forbes, a light brown costume; Miss
Gore, striped crepe and brown bonnet; Mrs.
George Lord, handsome black costume; Mrs.
Airey, grenat surah and cream Maltese lace; Mrs.
Henry Mort, black costume; Mrs. C. J. Roberts,
black French blond dres3, the whole front of the
skirt being richly embroidered with sapphire
moonlight beads, black lace bonnet mixed with
beads to correspond—one of the richest costumes
in the crowd; Mrs. Griffith, golden-brown satin;
Mrs. Wilfred Docker, terra-cotta satin combined
with crepe de China of same shads; Miss Kyndon,
white lawn, and rustic straw hat of navy-blue and
red, parasol of the latter hue; Misses Hardie,
coffee-coloured crepe and lace dresses, brown
straw hats; Miss Fischer, white lawn with blue
sash; Mrs. Spalding, navy-biue velvet, and silk
cream bonnet; Miss Valiant, ia alt cream; Madame
Kellermann, white embroidered lawn and black
tippet, light bonnet and complexion veil; Miss
Cook, pale-blue costume; Misses A. and J. Cook,
white lawn dresses. A dreadful green costume
provoked many remarks of anything but a com-
plimentary nature; and the wearer of a blaze-
coloured satin was quite celebrated, on that day
at least, for her bad taste; but there are some
people who would rather be granted such ques-
tionable notoriety than be in the background
altogether. The little Vernon boys did a lot
towards making things p sasant by their playing
and singing, and looked quite nice in their clean
white sailor jackets and dark-blue pants. Refresh-
ments were served, as usual, in the ball-room to a
throng wmeh apprecated them.
* * *
The Tasmanian Cup meeting, notwith-
standing a slight shower at lunch time, passed off
very successfully. The victory of Duration was
especially gratifying to the Victorians, who had
backed the favourite heavily. There was a good
attendance of ladies, and the following were a few
of the toilettes worn:—Mrs. Adye Douglass looked
very nice in a mixture of silver-green maroon,
bonnet to match; Mrs. Col. Tegge, rich black
and cardinal : Mrs. W. Degraves, particularly
quiet in olive-green; Mrs. Alexander Macgregor,
shot pink and cream; Mrs. Fleetwood Wilson
looked very nice in rioh cream, trimmed with
maroon velvet; Mrs. A. Winter, the new shade of
golden-brown merveilleux, deep coffee lace, para-
sol to match; Mrs. J. Harbottle dark brown,
trimmed with cream and brown lace; Miss Har-
bottle, all white; Mrs. Ljrd, white nainsook
gown, with black velvet trimming; Mrs. D Wal-
lace wore satin, with panels of cardinal piusn.
* * *
An approaching marriage is that of Miss
Murphy, dauguter of Sir Francis Murphy (Metb.),
and Mr. Byrne, a popular and esteemed member of
the staff of the Church of England Grammar
School. + * *
A grand wedding will take place this
week in Melbourne bet ween a young architect, of
South Melbourne, and the youngest daughter of a
squatter at Mount Gambier, who in early days
was well known to old Tasmanian colonists as the
master-mariner of a successful whaling vesiel.
Mrs. Armitage, of Melbourne, has made a
generous offer of £lOO per annum towards the es-
tablishment of the Convalescent Hospital; also
the gift of £5O towards the purchase.
3fC * *
The fashion of giving cheques for brida
presents is gaining ground fast. At the recen
wedding of Lady Marie Primrose, daughter of the
Duchess of Cleveland and sister of the Bari of
Roseberry, to Mr. Henry W. Hope, of Luffness,
the bride’s step-father gave her a cheque for £lOOO,
whilst her brother, the Earl of Rosebery, pre-
sented her with a cheque for double the amount.
• •
There was but a poor attendance at the
Gaiety Theatre on Saturday afternoon, when an
entertainment was given for the benefit of the
ividow and orphans of the poor fellow who lost
his life at the new Bijou Theatre the other day.
It would be uncharitable, and perhaps unfair, to
suppose that the size of the audience testified as
to the amount of generosity of the Sydney people.
The afternoon was so intensely hot, that to sit in-
side a stuffy theatre—no matter how good the en-
tertainment might be—was simply a foretaste of
the place everybody wishes to avoid when they
die; so, doubtless, those charitable folk who in-
tended to patronise the matinee, had the weather
been a little less trying, will send in their mite all
the same to the manager of the theatre, to swell
the fund which is to benefit those who are in
such dire distress.
* *
A marriage has been arranged, and will
take place in a couple of months, between the
Hon. G. W. Griffin, Consul in Sydney for the
United States, and Miss Pattie Lewis, a young lady
whose literary and musical talents are well known
in jour nalistic and artistic circles in Sydney.
* * *
An engagement is announced between the
youngest daughter of an eminent Darling Point
medico and a New Zealand squatter, whose coffers
are by no means empty.
e * e
In London, two fashionable marriages
a re arranged for this week—the first between
Mr. Henry Herbert Wills, second son of Mr. H. O.
Wills, of Bristol, and Miss Cunliffe Owen, daughter
of Sir Philip Cunliffe Owen, well known in connec-
tion with the late Melbourne Exhibition. The
second is the wedding of Mr. C. Stewart Mortley,
M.P., Under-Secretary of State for the Home
Department, and Miss Alice Millias, daughter of
the great painter, Sir John Millias, R.A , and niece
of Mr. John Gray, a gentleman in Riverina, who,
until quite lately, was part owner *ith the late
Mrs. Bladen Neill in the model sheep station, Sandy
Ridges.
ANSWERS TO SOCIAL CORRESPONDENTS.
[Note.— Social items, in order to ensure inser-
tion for the current week, should be to hand no
later than Tuesday.]
“ Soribe Your last item not of sufficient interest
to general public “Mopsy”: Your riding
habit should come just below your feet, and
no further, if you want to be fashionable ...
“A.W.”:jThe song, “Dear Heart,” is unobtain-
able in Sydney at present “ Jessie No; it
is not the correct thing for gentlemen to wear
white kid gloves at concerts and theatres.
[?]
Sydney, Wednesday.
Dearest Belle, ~l have just been reading over
your last letter, in which you ask me the reason
why our*mutuai friend nas met with so little
success ifluis profession, capable, industrious, and
painstaking as he is, and I can only account for it
by the tact that he forgot to Italianise his name
when he commenced his career. Now, don't
laugh, for I have it from some of our best pro-
fessional musicians that there’s a small fortune n
a foreign name. If Signor steffani nad been con-
tent to remain Mr. Stephens, I venture to say his
popularity here as a teacher of singing would have
suffered severely; and what a charm the name of
Signor Guillemlo Verdilent to Mr. William Green s
siDgingl In Signor Yittorini’s case, certainly, the j
make-believe didn’t pass, seeing that there are
several men in Svdney who went to school in
Victoria with Mr. Victor. I well remember when he
made his ilrst appearance as a singer here. We were
waiting all expectant to see the sallow-faced, long,
tlack-natred Italian come on and make his bow,
when, just as the singer approached—neither sal-
low-faced, long, nor black-haired—we received no
slight shock, when one amongst our party ex-
claimed, “Well, upon my word, if that isn t
Gt orge (at least I think it was George) Victor,
my old school-fellow I ” Later on, we learnt that
When he left school, he visited Italy, and came back
Italianised iu name, if not in voice; but, as I said
before, the make-believe was in this case too evi-
dent. But the last example is quite an exception
to the general rule, for I do assure you there is a
big capital in a delicious vo welly Italian name for
enhe performer or teacher, and there is not the
slighrest doubt that our friend’s worldly prospects
weie not a little blighted owing to nts scorn for
this piece of innocent numbug. this my dear, is
the only reason I can give lor his failure.
We made sure the wet weather had come tp stay
for at least a w*-ek when the rain came down in
such torrents on the night of the Philharmonic
concert, and disappoin ed as we were that, on
aeDumotlhe said rain, we couldn’t attend the
concert, we tried to assure ourselves that we
were unselfisn y glaa, for the sake of the poor
farmers and squatters- that the grass was g <ing
to have a chance of life just when it was nearly at
its last gasp; but just to show how we deceive
ourselves, we were. diSvracetully delighted when
tne clouds wrapped themselves up and left
a tidy sky in nice time for the reoeptb n
on Tnuraday afternoon at Government House.
It wasn’t such a brilliant reception as the former
ones, but so very many people are out of towa,
then not a few of our notables went on to the
American steamer, which iett the same afternoon,
to wish sir Alexander Stuart bon voyage. Sir
Alfred Stephen absented himself from Govern-
: uient House for the abeve purpose, and we quite
! missed the sight of this wondenully energetic old
gentleman escorti ig Lady Carington ab ut the
gardens. I wonder whose idea it was to have
so miny of the louages at Government House up-
holstered with orange-coloured satin I It’s little
I short of cruelty to expect us girls to sit upon
tnern, and I deoiare, dear, I didn't see three out of
twenty who were hardy or thoughtless enough to
recline on these fearful complexion tests, come
out of the ordeal with flying colours. One portly
dame, who was seemingly under the impression
that this primary colour lent additional glory to
her already gorgeous apparel and florid com-
plexion, fixed herself upon one for the whole
afternoon, a d caused not a little amusement by
the comical picture she made. Her royal blue
gown elaborately bede ked with moonlight bead
tricnmiDg, bronze chenille cape, tremendously
high bonnet trimmed with blue and bronze
plumes, and highly coloured complexion, backed
by this awful orange satin, add to this a look of
the supremest self-satisfaction, and there you
have her in all her gaudy completeness. If it had
not been for this amusing dame, and for the en-
tertainment afforded us in observing the “ fish out
of water ” kind of comportment of some of the
people (the men especially), the reception would
have been rather tame. As it was, ho wever, the se
few amusing trifles just saved it.
You ask methe meaning of a “Wooden Wed-
ding,” but surely you know it Is simply the
fifth anniversary of a wedding day, and that it is
oustomary to send souvenirs in wood upon this oc-
casion to the happy pair. In Paris, the other day,
a lady sent out her wooden wedding invitations,
printed on wood as thin as wafers. For myself, I
believe the celebration of wooden, silver, and
golden weddings is simply an excuse for a jollifi-
cation, or probab'y as a means to run in some
more presents It must be quite nice to have
one’s household goods replenished gratis every few
years. Very pretty trays, cruets, dinner-mats,
and the like are made in wood now-a-days, ana
are quite good style, so be sure you don’t forget
to apprise me of your wooden wedding-day and
I’ll send you something appropriate. I will not
wait so long, however, to send you some of the
oddest little things possible, which the French call
oulstitis, and which are simply morsels of plush
made into tiny monkeys, and are really the latest
fashionable drawing-room fad. They are stuck
upon lustres, pictures, window-curtains, or any-
thing they can be made to cling to and look
exactly as if they were climbing. Trifles as they
are, they are rather ingenious, and the inventor
has made quite a fortune by them. They hap-
pened to take the popular fancy, so, as no.drawing-
room at home is complete without them, you may
imagine the sale of them totalled a very large
amount. They are just making their appearance in
the fancy-goods shop-windows here, but nobody
seems to know what they are for—whether they
are intended as play-things for children, ornaments
for hats, or what I tell you beforehand so that,
when you get your bundle of plush monkeys in all
colours of the rainbow, you will not be puzzled to
know what position they are to fill in your domes-
tic circle.
I was not a little amused the other night when I
dropped Into the cloak-room of the New Masonic
Had to hear the “iady who looks after the cloaks”
exclaim, in an inspired voice—“Weil, that is too
bad I That is the sixth lady who has come into the
room aud righted herself bel ore he glass without
leaving her wraps ” The poor woman’sgrievauce
w*-s that as these economical ladies carried their
cloaks into the hall with them Bhe had not the
slight st chance of being feed. I think there
shouli be some reform about this cloak-room
business, fo , ‘ as matters stand at present the atten-
dant's remuneration for her trouble is for the
greater part dependent upon the generosity of the
ladies, and I grieve to say, dear, that more than
half of them quite forget to leave any fee at all.
T ey seem to think the honour theyjconfer on the
attendant by allowing her to take care of their
wraps is enough in itself. I think if there could
be a settled fee it would be more satisfactory all
round. At some of the fashionable theatres at
home a lady cannot look at herself in the mirror
under sixpence, and I remember hearing of a
newly-mar(ied beauty who, upon rejoining her
husband after visiting the cloak-room, compl ined
bitterly to him that she had only just gianced in
the looking-glass to see that her hair was un-
ruffled, for which privilege she was charged six-
pence. The husband, who hadn’t then passed the
complimentary stage, replied-** Well, my dear,
I am sure the sight of the picture you saw in the
mirror was worth a hundred times as much
But I feel certain that, provided we had decent
civil attendants in our theatre and concert-room
eioak-rooms (some of them are awfully testy)
none of us would begrudge a reasonable fee. It
makes ail the difference to us if the cloak-minder
be the happy possessor of a good temper and a
civil tongue. I know Igo into the room at the
Theatre fcoy&i with a light heart, knowing, as I do
by long experience, that I shall receive the ut-
most patient attention, jJput not so at one or two
other places of amusement. At one in particular,
if we seem to be at all in & hurpy to claim our
w-aps, or, woful calamity 1 happen to lose our
ticket, we are certain of a good downright scold-
ing from the attendant, which to poor timid crea-
tures (like me, my dear) is something horrible.
Fancy being soundly rated before a roomfull ( f
people for showing signs of hurry or for haviDg
lost a paper ticket! This is no exaggeration, but
a simple, mournful fact, and besides experiencing
it myself, several of my friends have complained
of it to me. It will end in this—that unless a
change is effected we shall sever patronise the
cloak-room at ali, those few places
where we feel certain of meeting with civility.
Are you glad to he?r that cricket is to be the
future fashionable pastime for us of the weaker
sex ? I don’t quite know yet bow we shall like it,
but at ali evens it will be a change from the eter-
nal lawn-tennis—a nice game in its wav. but ever
so much overdone. There is a ladies’ cricket club
formed here now, and when they play their first
public match I will tell you ali about It. One
thing is certain—there will have to be a special
dress invented for the game. No girl could ever
ever run as we are, ordinarily clad, with crjnoletfce
and all the rest of the impedimenta. A costume
was adopted for a ladies’ match played lately in
Surrey, which consisted of a white tunic,, JSton
blue caps and sashes, black hose and white knicker-
bockers. We must have something more pic»
turesaue than that, here, and more-more—well,
more feminine. The knickerbockers and hose would
frighten everybody off here, whatever they might
do in Surry. We colonials are not only too proper
to adopt such an attire, hut we are, as a rule, so very
angular that I am certain we should not look at
all nice. Perhaps this last reason would prove to
he the strongest deterrent against the mannish
garb.
There was a meeting of Americans at the Asso-
ciation grounds last Saturday for the purpose of
forming a base-ball club. This, as perhaps you
know, is the American national game, and is (at
least, so they say) a far finer game in many respects
than our cricket. However, they have yet to
prove that to us. But whether it is a better game
or not, we shall be very glad to have a chaDge,
and shall look forward to witnessing their first
public play.
A good way to renovate your cream nainsook
dress is as follows:—Pour two quarts of boiling
water on a pound of bran, strain the bran water
through a muslin bag, and after washing the
dresß in tepid water rinse it through the bran
water, and, when dry, it will be both nicely stiff
and a pretty colour. Now, run along ma belle,
and do this your own seif, for not only will it be
proper y done, but the bran will make your hands
nice and white. Tell me in your pext how you
succeeded, and in the meantime, bysjieve nme
to be Youis, as ever,
MAB.
We are at a loss to know why people
should allow themselves to be imposed upon by
imitations of Wolfe’s Schnapps.
“ What a lovely night ? ’ she muttered,
ToyiDg with his chain,
While the breezes down the gutters
Bore a smell of drain;
“ Mar« the white clouds floating fleetly,
Soothing, resiiul ,"That’s
A fact,” he whispered, sweetly—
“ What a night for shooting cats I ’
If you cannot get Wolfe’s Schnapps in
one house it is much better for you to go wiere
you can get it.
F
5
ÜBNIIUI B 8 HOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spritw streets, Sydney.
ALL FURNITURR, HATBTANDB,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT
Library furniture, centre and sidi
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion : well worthy of
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &o 7
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Novelties in boudoir and bow window
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDROOM SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
171 IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.- The
It Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’ConEelL-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tfle back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached: PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 3 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 375. 6d.; Washstands from 13s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80s ;
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Sideboards,
from JS3lOs.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
£
OQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, In handsome
Case. Free at rail or wharves for cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
MABY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in any
material
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and restful,
a speciality. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
DRAWING-ROOM CABINETS.-Early English,
Anglo-Japanese, and Chippendale designs.
Just opened. BRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring & O’Connell sta.
Drawing-room furniture.—The latest
development of fashion. ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exqusits examples are now on
view In our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Elegant novelties in bedroom fur-
niture. full suites, in SATINWOOD, ROSE-
WOOD, and other CHOICE WOODS, richly inlaid.
Will well repay inspection.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Q’GonneU-st.
FOLDING-SCREENS (3 and 4 told) for the Draw-
ing and Dining Rooms and Office. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
GARDEN SEATS, 20s: Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
ATT AN VERANDAH LOUNGES, 20* ; and
large variety of Chairs, &c ; special designs,
extra quality. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring & O’Connell sts.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for dubs, restaurant! 1 ,
smoking rooms, &c.
IELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR—
Patented,
%
£
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when t< ided. Price 80s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAM B (only). Packing in capyas, if required,
2s fid. extra.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, Newton
and Lamb.
RON SAFES, various sizes. BRaDLEY,
NEWTON, and LAMB, Spring & O’Connell sts.
OPYING PRESSES. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Copnell streets.
WALITmIRRORS and BRACKETS-Novelties
in plush and velvets and in all woods,
from 6/6.
LhGANT VENETIAN MIRRORS, richly
enamelled in colours. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
OMMO UE CHAIRS ; BIDETS, with PAN ;
Shaving Stands. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb
JAPANESEBLINDS (extra quality), fitted with
pulleys and cords, 6xB, 9/6; BxB,ll/-; 9 x
13/-; 10 x 8.14/-; 13 x 8,16/6; 13 x 10, 30/-.
BRAJjLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
ICE CH ESTB, with CUPBOARDS, all sizes, Irom
27s- Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, Spring and
O'Connell streets. ..
URNITURE—THE LARGEST STOCK IN THE
COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
Spring and O’Connell streets.
C
C


BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
w;r years past we have advocated that
_ apfia at. at least, one regatta—the National
yfICGS •*'hftfi'f' and hpfit ” if only to prove til©
should be , class The committee this year
C on a e handicaD the 20ft half deckers,
as a consequence, spoilt what should have
been one of the best races of the day, as the
xfarpns which was placed on scratch, declined to
accept ’ On what lines the handicappers made up
thefr P imposts is beyond us. With amateur crews
the Nereus has proved herself the daddy of her
wass but as Sia. Wilson, her skipper, can run
rings’ round any of the amateurs in this kind of
craft it was certainly not fair to handicap her on
such performances when the best professionals in
the harbour were at the tillers on Anniversary
Tiav and we do not wonder Mr. Benson contented
himself with a cruise round the flagship with
sfreamersat thepeak and a saucy chanticleer at the
masthead, in the 24ft. race the Carlotta carried
fwav her bumpkin, and, for the old clipper’s sake,
te were not sorry. With -‘Podge ’Newton at
the tiller, she would have had nothing to complain
of in the way of handling, hut she was jury-rigged
with the Lottie sgear, wniph would not bave given
her a chance of coping with any show ot success
against tne Dreamland, with George Ellis at the
tiller, and a faultlessly-setting suit of sails.
m • *
We have dropped across some mean men
in our time, hut the man we saw at Foley 8 f baths
last Sunday morning must “take the cake. He
backed himself for live boh to stay under water
longer than a young gentleman who rather f ancied
himself at the business, and after preliminaries
had been arranged the pair took a header to-
gether. The mean one, however, immediately
rose to the surface, and waited for his opponent
who stayed down till human nature could stand it
no longer. As the victim rose to the surface the
ioker went down, and to the victims chagrin
stayed down some 30 seconds, and he duly annexed
the “sugar.” # *
Mr. Fletcher’s celebrated piece of umpir-
ing goes far to show that the time has arrived
when the business may with advantage be en-
trusted to professionals, as in England. The post
is one requiring peculiar faculties for its
tory performance, and good men when found
should be retained. It wpuld certainly be a good
idea to attach two umpires to the ground staff
during the cricket season.
* * .*
Thus an enthusiast at the cricketers’ pic-
nic: “You can’t beat the three d’s, Sunshine, Salt-
water, and Shampaane." Fact!
* * *
The cricketers had a real good time at
Pearl Bav on Friday, and the Victorians who
rushed away in such a hurry lost a treat not to be
bought the other side ot tne border. Footy
Pearce, tne well-known sculler and fisherman,
and his net were in great requisition, and the
greater number of the picm sera passed away the
time in trawling and half-drowning one another,
till the arrival of Mr. Speaker, when quite a ehili
fell on the crowd upon the discovery that the
“Jaynial” had been left behind. After dinner,
more netting, nap-* and quoiting, the big four at
the latter game turning up in Messrs. Speaker and
Sergeant-at-Arms versus Old Jones and a friend
of equally majestic proportions.
* * *
The clever “push” were not quite happy
in their selections at the second meeting of the
Windsor Farm Racing Club, on Saturday last.
Bonnie Bee made a good start by winning the
First Handicap, and then started at 3to 1 f or the
event of the day, the Windsor Farm Handicap,
the clever division going bald-headed f °r Elling-
ton at 3to 1. M’Dowall, on Ellington, evidently
rode to orders to watch Bonnie Bee, aud in carry-
ing out orders, he lost sight of 10 to 1 Binalong,
who jumped away with the lead and was never
caugat, heating Ellington by a length and a half,
Bonnie Bee two lengths away third. Hiavoidl won
the Selling Plate; Alma carried off the Mulgrave
Handicap; and Solicitor annexed the Disposal
Stakes, # * *
Magic, James R. Fairfax, 25 tons, scratch,
Waitangi. A. G. Milson, 31 tons, 3min.34sec.; Blec-
tra, J. F. Fitzhardinge, 31 tons, 2inin. 34sec.,
started for the first-class race in connection with
the Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron on Saturday
last, over course from line between starter s boat
and French buoy in Neutral Bay, down to ana
round boat moored off Curl Curl Head, back round
Shark Island, Fort Denison: thence round Light-
ship, Sow and Pigs, Shark Island, and back to flag-
boat off Fort Macquarie. Tne Magic away
with the lead, and off Watson s Bay the Waitangi
carried away her outhaul, which necessitated a
stoppage for repairs. The Waitangi was unlucky
throughout, but she baa no show with the M,gic.
which won with 19Hjm.ni to the good, lhe
Electra is built for, ana is rigged as, a cruiser, ana
unless in a gale of wiud, it is a farce fur Mr.
Fitzhardinge to attempt to raca her. l’he yawl-
rig, we ventui e to say, will never become popular
in Port Jackson.
« » *
The Melbourne Bicycle Club held a race
meeting on the Melbourne Cricket Ground on
Saturday last. E. Elliott won the mile maiden;
C. Dwyer won the mile tricycle championship
and three-miles open bicycle race, the distance
being* covered in the splendid time of 9mm. 14sec,
Shacfcleford won tbe live-mile championship, and
E„ Elliott, with 380yds., annexed the two-miles
bicycle handicap. *
* * *
Our readers probably expected to have
seen in this issue of The Bulletin the terms aud
conditions of the Farnan-Foley and Newton-I oley
fights. We regret to be obliged to state that there
is very little likelihood of a match being made,
neither of the Victorians evincing any undue
eagerness to toe the mark. We would have been
glad to have seen the men meet, not so much for
the sake of the sport, as of deciding quickly who
is the best man in the colonies. It is but just to
Foley to state that though the primary challenge
did not emanate from him, he has thrown no
obstacle in the way of the Melbourne fighters.
Their own terms were accepted and expenses
(£35) offered them, and as a further inducement
the local man allowed the winner to take two-
thirds of the gate money and a stake of ±lOO. in
the event of Foley winning, he was willing to let
the loser off with half the stake. We have thus
fully explained the terms that our readers may
understand the matter, which we shall not again
allude to until tne money is actually put up.
Foley is now in treaty with Dempsey and Cleary,
the American thumpers, and has offered induce-
ments to Mitchefi, which will probably ensure a
visit from him. Should either of them come out,
he is willing to try conclusions with him. We
may yet hope to see a cnampionship fight in the
ring, not in the columns of newspapers—a childiso
Pen-and-ink battle of which the public, as our-
Belves, are, doubtless, heartily sick.
* * *
Connors, who, a week ago, distinguished
himself by throwing one of Foleys bears in a
cateh-as-catch-can encounter, is matched to
Wrestle Hassan, an Indian wrestler with somewhat
of a reputation. Hassan has an unbeaten record
of 700 matenes; and Connors, with 104 victories,
too, carries an unbeaten name. The match will te
tor £5O, and will take place in the gymnasium on
Saturaay night.
* * *
O’Brien has forwarded his deposit for the
match with Malone, to come off on the 36th inst.
By some error the amount was forwarded to the
Mayor of Sydney instead of his namesake, the
sporting J. D. The distances, as we stated in a
recent issue, will be half-mile, 10U0 jar.s, and
three quarter mile.
* * *
Bees, who recently defeated Farnan in a
Stove encounter in Melbourne, has challenged
leter Newton, AbeHicken, or Billv Farnan. So
jar, nothing definite has been arranged. Probably
another newspaper fight is pending with its con-
sequent cheap advertisements. We would like to
Bee more business and less talk in these matters.
Our champion Victorian pugilists seem a very
threadpapery lot, with much less fight in them
than the average larrikin.
* * *
At the Gymnasium, George-street, Syd-
ney, on Saturday night, a very merry entertain-
ment was witnessed, prot ably the best series of
encounters which has yet taken place in the hall
The first turn-up was between Gorman and
Fuller and for three rounds the men male tbiags
particularly lively for one another, and interest-
ing to the audience Occasionally Gorman would
drop hotly and heavily on to the other man s
counter, and the change was willingly and speedily
dealt out to him. There was very little jibbing
or fooling between the combatants. They don’t
know enough to be cunning, so they fought a fair
give-and-take battle, which, judging by thy
liberallappiaute bestowed, wes fomewhat appreci-
ated by the onlookers. In the last round both men
were evidently tiring, the blows were less
“Ipowdery,” and ihey retired to mate way for
Hickey and Burridge, who fought a merry battle,
ending slightly in lavour of the la9t named. The
set-to of the evening was by Dooley and Nolan.
The latter is a new arrival, with a short neck, bull
chest, and an English reputation. After four
rounds with Dooley he had a cut lip, a crimson
tinted nose, fand a colonial record which he will
not exhibit when r»n tour. Do ley will make a
rattling boxer; he has a good left hand, and a long
reach; his right is slow, and fails short occasion-
ally. He throws away chances through not fol-
lowing his left up quickly, and unless he is care-
ful to correct this error, he will develop
into a one-handed fighter. Jimmy Laws m
and Davis were the next to don the mit-
tens. Davis is a good man; he fought a twc-
hour’s draw with Dooley, and Lawson, who is
the best man at his weight in the colonies,
was a fitting antagonist for him. He fitted him
very often., Lawson is quick, uses both hands,
and can afford to lend his head occasionally on the
chance of getting in a wind-jammer. During the
two rounds they fought he made the vicinity of
hi® left hand a desirable point for his opponent to
avoid, and being short he occasionally got in under
Davis’s guard to lodge a hasty deposit of both
hands full, dodging away in time to avoid taking
a receipt. M'Kenna and a friend wound up the
entertainment with a very lively three rounds of
good work ©n both sides, Mac. scoring most points
in the game. Professor Cansdell gave an interest-
ing exhibition of Indian club swinging during the
evening. Tne sparring was under tne personal
supervision of the proprietor, and we did not re-
mark any violation of the rules of the gymnasium
during the evening. Why should one man Btand
so prominently out in an assemblage as an en-
forcer of good order and unity and brotherly
love ? We do not know. Gladstone holds a mul-
titude ia check with his voice, Dan. O Connor
holds them with his glittering eye,; but Foley
holds his audience in the hollow of his hand by the
cunning of his arm, and yet he is harmless as an
uuweaned child. We would sooner be a crack
pugilist than a cracked Prime Minister if we had a
mob to manage.
* * *
The Hon. James White’s remarks about
the prejudicial effects of early racing upon two-
year-olds are only an echo of the protests of many
horse-owners in the old country. Unfortunately,
the very gentlemen who profess to have the most
faith in their theory seldom put it into practice.
Mr. White, for instance, says that he was entirely
opposed to the introduction of the Kichmond
Stakes, “ although he had had the good fortune to
win the first race of the kind.” Lora Falmouth,
again, who has won more money by two-year-old
raoing than any other man that ever lived, has
given his opinion that this early training of horses
is iojuriouß to their future prospects. There can
be little doubt that if the valuable prizes for two-
year-olds were abolished, and no inuucement held
forth to owners to run their best youngsters,
the stamina of thoroughbred horses would be
better developed. But so long as there is a lot of
money and glory to he won by sacrificing prin-
ciples, owners will go for the “ greed.” The
English two-year old, the Bard, has won more
than £9OOO in stakes during the past season. His
owner, Mr. Peck, a practical trainer, probably con-
siders that no juvenile should be brought out lor
16 races. But as the average value of each event
was more than £5OO, Mr. Peck couldn’t resist the
temptation of winning it. Lst the big prizes that
are now offered for youngsters be reserved for
/our-year-olds, and there will be some encourage-
ment for owners to practise the virtue of path nee
with their blood-stock. It is because there are so
few valuable stakes to be won with horses after
their third year that they are made too much use
of in their young days. As for the pretty numer-
ous class of owners who would say that they
couldn’t afford to keep two-year-olds idle, well—
the turf is oetter without them By all means let
the Hon. James White endeavour to restrict tw> -
year-old rasing, or what is better still, abolish it
altogether Not by Jockey Club law, but oy the
simple method of making it a paying game not to
race youngsters.
* * *
The Selection Committee in connection
with the intercolonial eight oar race have lost no
time in picking a crew to represent N.S.W. Nine
men were chosen, including Mr. E. P. Simpson,
arid, as we hear it is unlikely that gentleman wilt
take a seat in the boat, the eight may be looked
for in Messrs Martin, Brett, Beule, Pickering, and
Hobertson from the M.R.0.; and Bros, Kennedy,
and Johnson irom the S.K.C. Tne crewisaflrst-
* cl ass one, and the Selection Commi tee may be
congratulated upon having put together the beat
possible eight from the material at their disposal.
* * *
W. G. George, at present in New York, is
reported to have said that he had gained 2010.
since crossing the Atlantic, and “ now felt as well
as ever he felt in his life.” George is evidently of
opinion that he was drawn too fine f r his matches
against Cummings, and if the projected leturn
matches with the Paisley champion come off
George is cert .in to carry a little more btef than
in his first essays. Whether he will be able to
turn the tables on Cummings to be seen,
but before quitting the states George may be
having another cut in against his old companion,
Myers. When they met, more than three years
ago, at the half, threequarters, and one mile,
Myers won the first event, but lost the rubber.
Tne Americans think that he was drawn too fine
on that occasion.
* * *
Buyers of high-priced yearlings will be in-
terested to hear that a horse nightly careering
round the ring at Sanger’s Circus in London was
an 1850-guinea youngster at one of the Queen’s an-
nual blood-stock sales. Sanger probably picked
up the animal for something like £25 A history of
tbe blue-blood yearlings that have letebedovera
thousand pounds, cost their ui.happy owners half
as mucii again in nominations, aou then failed to
stand training, would make an instructive voiurne
We would suggest as a suitable title: “ Fools aiu
their money.”
* *
Billiards are, like humanity, subject to
the laws of evolution. The game was pmyed i.
Shakespeare’s time, and for centuries made no
progress. It then evolved a Roberts, who playeu
It as a man might do coming from another planet.
In no other game could one man give all comers
such odds as he did, and win. The son hes, how-
ever, snuffed out all the lather's performances
and stands now to billiard® as much as young
Vanderbilt did to old Vanderbilt, and to all other
millionaires, for money-getting. The details of a
lately-played billiard match in London show that
the game can no longer be interesting. Who
would not tire of looking on at a game in which
one player (Peall) makes a break of 1002, with
other breaks similarly lar#e? We paid nan-a-
sovereign, when the elder Roberts was here, to see
him play a game of 1000 up, which, by the way,
lasted over four hours. They play matches of
20,000 now 1 It is strange that no other game of
skill has brought up such improved plaj ers as are
now to be found at the ‘ board of green cloth.”
* * *
Quite a neat little case of diamond cut
diamond is reported to have occurred at a recent
race meeting in N S.W. It appears that the
owner of a certain flyer was thrown over by his
jockey at the last moment, and was worrying
himself into fits to get out of the trouble when
he dropped across another pigskin-straddler who
had been in bis employ before. The race came
off, but even a blind man could see that the
“ emergency ” jockey “rode with a heavy rein,’
and deliberately did his level best to run a good
last. On returning to the paddock, the horse was
handed back to the owner by the rider with the
terse remark: “Now, you and me are quits until
the next time.” Those who know, explain the
business by the fact that the horse owner had
engaged the same lad on a previ 'us occasion, a d
although the latter rode ftve races well, he could
never sse the colour of the former’s money.
* * *
Since Ruskin began to break up, w e have
never dared hope to enjoy such a piece of gorge-
ous word-painting as we find in the M dbourne
Herald telegram of the 23rd January, from the
Association Ground. None but a master of his
craft would turn out this sort of copy: “When
the chosen champions of the sphere and willow
met to-day to pit themselves in friendly but
stubborn rivalry in defence of the intercolonial
cricket honour, it was under circumstances cal-
culated to satisfy the most exacting of cricket
enthusiasts. The nig glowing sun poured down
its enlivening rays in waves of heat which would
have been wearyingly oppressive had it not been
that a gentle breeze tempered the sun s over-
genial influence into toleration. There was
pleasant excitement as the time approached for
the opening of the play. The coin was sent spin-
ning into mid-air,” &c. Our brain grows dizzy as
we strive to form a faint idea of wbat this re-
porter could accomplish at a prize-fight. Yet we
blame him for restricting his fiery fancy to mere
prose description of the scene. Let him send off
his next telegram in verse. We will make a
feeble attempt to supply the literary jewels of the
Herald man with a rhythmical setting:
The sun is glowing brightly—
Pouring down its waves of heat
On the muslins blowing lightly
Round the ladies’ little feet;
And gently o’er our faces
Sweeps the kindly, tempering breeze
As we softly take our places
And 101 l back at languid ease.
We watch the coin a-spinning,
Each mortal holds his breath
As he wonders wno is winning—
For the toss is “ audden death;”
Both sides are on their mettles,
So a mighty shout assails
The shilling as it settles,
When the cry is “ New South Wales!”
Then wicketwards walk proudly
Young Jones and Percy Mac ,
And the people cheer them loudly;
But the “demons ’brow is black
As the ball he sends a-bowliDg
(How it glistens in the sun!)
To tbe b undary goes rolling.
And M'Donald’s score is one.
(The players are just adjourning for refreshments
as our message is deep tebed )
There were some unsavoury proceedings in
connection with a trotting mated between Rosalie
and The Ruler at the last Elsternwick Park meet-
ing, The match was run off in three heats of a
mile each. For the first heat sto 1 was laid on The
Ruler, who won. but in the succeeding heats
Rosalie asserted her superiority in the most un-
mistakable manner. At the conclusion of this
very entertatni g match the crowd hooted the
driver of The Ruler. The system of running a
match in heats gives opportunities for this in and
out running. It there were only one race the
poor ou side backers would, at any rate, 1 se only
one wag»r. Some of them lost three over the
Rosalie-Ruler match.
» * •
As an instance of the extensive character
of turf gambling in England it has been calculated
that had a backer been lucky enough (at the last
Manchester meeting), the extraordinary amount
of £1,453,888,132 Bs. would have been realised by the
investment of a sovereign “ played up ” on each
winner.
* « *
It is said that Plaisanterie, winner of the
Cfeaarewich, and of the Cambridgeshire this year,
is estimated to have won tor its owners upwards of
£lOO,OOO The mare was bred by the Comte
Vanger, and in her baby days was offered privately
several times, but buyers were shy. She, witn st.
Gatien, was offered to the Oomte de Nicolai for
£lOO, but the telegram accepting the offer was not
receivtd by the owner or tne pair owing to his
absence from home. Then the youngsters were
sent to the French Tatter jail’s, and one of them,
Plaisanterie, was knocked down for £32 to Tom
Carter, son of Carter the trainer, .before she
started for the Cmsarewich, £6OOO was offered and
refused for Plaisanterie. Who shall s»y there is
no lottery in the purchase of yearling blood stock ?
An extraordinary circumstance in connec-
tion with a recent English breach of promise suit
was the fact that although there were over 100
love letters produced as evidence, they did not
contain a single term of endearment, and no one
of them had any mention of kieses. What on
earth can they have been written for ? A laay
might as well try to write a letter without a po't-
script as a man try to write a love letter without
gliding into the usual nyum-nyum buBinees. The
name of love letter in such a case is a misnomer.
Wolie’s Schnapps is an excellent specific
for indigestion, rheumatism, and gout. Obtain
Wolfe’s, accept nothing else.
“ Mosquitoes 1” said the Newtown man,
“ I tell you 1 have seen ’em
So large, that for their breakfast two
Would eat a horse between ’em.
“ And when they went a-humming round,
un eve. ings soft anr balmy,
They made more noise, I’ll bet a pound,
1 han j our Salvation Army.
“ Mofquitoes! Yes, you never saw
Such things as them—real reusers,
Why plenty of ’em used to go
To BummerfielQ lor trousers.”*
If a man tells you lie keeps the best
brands just look if he has Wolfe’s Schnapps. If
not he has told vou an untruth
GOMPAGNONI CATERING GO., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE oldest and leading Catering Establishment In N.B.W. Caterers to His Worship the Mayor,
Municipal Council of Syd' ey, the A.J.C., City Club, ,xc., &c.
The Dining Saloons for Ladies and Gentlemen are the Finest, Coollest, and loftiest in the colony.
FIRST-CLASS MENU DAILY. Private Bar—Good Wine List.
IGRILL ROOM now open. A Grill can be had at any time from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. (after the
Theatres. Select your own steak, &c., and see it grilled in the room. This is one of the acquisitions
oi the city, and a long-felt lnspection invited. Club rooms of the Prince Alfred Yacht Cluo
and City Club, upstairs. Ei D. TOLLED!ACHE, General Manager.
HORDERN’S
OK THB
Sriclfe±ield.
m STAY AHD GOISLT DEPARTMEST.
Stays sent to any Railway
Free of Charge.
/(?
C D
O.
UO/
w
rs
>4
It
Nursing and Riding Stays.
Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOURLE, AND SPOON BUSKS),
2s lid., 3s. 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4s. lid., ss. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., 9s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12s 6d
EDWARD HORDERN AND SO IS. 666 and 668 Brickfield Hill.
N.B.- Orders from the Country will receive immediate and careful attention.


One and Won.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jack fierrington was stockman on a run called
Nintingbool.
And close beßide the homestead stood the station
childrens’ scnool;
A little blue-eyed maiden taught tbe young idea
to shoot,
And from the tree of knowledge helped them
pluck the early fruit.
One morning, as Jack baoked an ugly big buck-
3amping screw.
He heard the youthful voices chanting, “One an<
one make two.”
“ I b’lieve; ihey’re right,” he muttered, as he gave
his nag a turn;
I d like to go to Mary’s school, where figures {
might learn,
And ask her, kind o’ quietly—(you cripple, you’ve
begun!)—
If just a sort o’ ’casional, don’t one and one make
one
Wo-bo-op! you fiddle-headed—” “Sh, Jack, you
mustn’t swear.”
“Oh, beg y’r p'a’d’n, Mary, why, I thought yoi.
was in there;
These brumby s is a tryin’ lot, they gives a fellow
cause *
I wouldn t swore out loud, though, if I’d know*
how near you was;—
Whoop! can't he buck? The outlaw, he’s tryin’
to prove it’s true
What them your g uns was a singing ’bout—one
and one make two -
He wants to spread me out somewhere and count
it up himself,
But a china horseman’s on him—this' child ain’t
the common delf.
Whoo-roop! he’s off—good mornin’ . She’s a
pretty little thing;
I >arn me, 1 think I’ll muster pluck to speak about
the ring,
But I’m so confounded bashful that I wouldn’t
r have the cheek,
Though I sit and yabber to her every evening in
the week.”
“ Say, Mary, if a girl ain’t wed we got to call her
Miss.”
“Yes, Jack." “That’s so; now, what I want to
say is simply this :
When unmarried sisters meet we speak of them as
‘misses,’
And when a chap is married then his wife becomes
his ‘ missus ’
You taught them little folks this mornin’ one and
one make two.
And that, as far as figures go, is nothing less than
true;
But, Mary, little woman, there’s a gent now on the
run
Whose got a patent way of provin’ one and on ■
make one;
He knows the other secret—(Jack here stole sun
( dry kisses) -
He’s got a patent way to make a single maiden
' missus.'
Shall we two learn the secret ?” Came the answer
shyly back—
‘ There, you're rumpiing all my collar ”
[Mem. to printer.—Asterisks, please, you know ]
“We will liarn the secret Juge"
At the dinner given by the Melbourne
Irishmen to Dr. O’Doherty, the other night, tin
noble doctor remarked, among other thing’s, thai
" He hoped that when Ireland had her ownParlla
ment, and her manufactures flourished, her linen,
hose, woolens, stout and whisky would be largely
used in Australia.” It is a patriotic hope, but wt
fear the stout and whisky part of it will mak.
the doctor disliked by the Good Templars. Litth
Mirams has been heard to say that there will neve:
be an Irish Parliament while he can prevent it, if
this is to be its game. The Irish nation oan rely
upon our custom, anyhow. By the way, the
Honorable Tom Slattery was at the banquet, anf
—the Honorable Dan. O’Connor was not! Whar
obscure and gory mystery underlies this fact?
Perhaps the Jaynil thinks " pathriotissem ” has
paid him well enough up to date, and that now he
is a " Ministher av the Crown ” it is time to drop it
They were riding in a railroad ear when
the first man, who was evidently suffering from e
recovery, leaned over to the second man, and
said:—“ Lord Carington was right after all. If a
man wants to prosper he must keep strictly sober,
and pay proper attention to his business. Even
Solomon, with all his glory, and all his 900 mothers
in-law to advise him, couldn't improve on that lot
I, for one, h ive aced on the advice, and find I'm
all the better for it. I drink no intoxicating stuff
whatever, and the result is I sm at my work wii h
a cool head and a strong arm by 9 o’clock every
morning ’ “ Since when did this change in you take
place ? ” asked the second man. “ Since when ? ’
exclaimed the other; “ why, since to-morrow. You
couldn’t expect a man to run the teetotal ticket
on the glorious anniversary of his country s
founding, could you ?” And then hauling out
his pocket-pistol, the first man poured out two
tots of perfumed water, and the pair drank suc-
cess to Australia, coupled with the name of
Carington.
How quickly some oity fashions are
adopted in the country. Mr. Dennis O’Phillagin,
who has lately beeH appointed. Inspector of Nuis-
ances to the Borough Council of Boggarawoggara,
was entertained at a banquet last Saturday by his
numerous supporters and friends. The proceed-
ings were quite on wriggle, and the festive board
groaned beneath the delicacies of the season, in-
eluding suoking pigs and slap-jacks, pickled emu
tails, and fricasseed tree frogs. In responding to
the toast of “ Our Guest,” Mr. O’Phillagin treated
the distinguished company present to a full and
particular history of his early life, including bis
trials and triumphs as a sundowner for many
years, his subsequent election to the important
position of deputy sub-scavenger to the road
trust, his undeniable loyalty in a strict observance
of the Government stroke, and finally his eleva-
tion to the exalted office ol Inspector of Nuisances.
As a self-educated man, who could write his name
legibly and spell January if tney only gave him
time, he aspired to a much higher position. He
hoped they would all pn fit by his example, and
then they might all achieve some sort of eminence,
if it were only on the cross beam of the leafless
tree, or be shrined in the immortal verse of a pan-
tomime libretto.
The story comes to us from Maryborough
(Vic.), but we prefer telling it in our own way. Near
the town named there Jives a person who has on
his ground a pond stocked with fish. When not
occupied in anything himself his time his spent in
loitering round to see that no o. e.se fishes there
One day last week some of his neighbours deter-
mined to be even with him. For this purpose
they constructed a dummy swagman, fixed it on
the margin where the water was deepest, filled its
pockets with stones, put a fishing-rod in its hands,
and lay in the adjoining scrub to watoh results.
Suddenly A. (the churlish owner) appeared on his
balcony, and swept the welkin with his eye till it
rested on the supposed poacher. Then he called
his family, and oallously remarked: “ Guess
I’ve caught ’im at last—see me fix ’im.” Then
he left the house in his shirt - sleeves,
and, creeping warily, stealthily, relentlessly
behind the stolid simulacrum, rose alongside it
with a whoop and sent it head foremost into SO
feet of water. It sank without a murmur and re-
gained so long below that the women rushed
from the cottage with flying hair and poured out
cries for aid on the bosom of the palpitating air'
A. got nervous. The preservation of fish scarcely
justified the taking of life, and Victorian
juries had primitive views on the difference be-
tween manslaughter and murder. He plunged in,
and after the third dive brought the poor stranger
j to the surface. He plaeed him on the bank and
took a long look at his face. Then he straightened
j aimself with an uncanny yell, and started like a
meteorite for the most secluded glade in the forest
primeval, pursued by the harsh mockery of es-
tranged neighbours. Anyone can fish in that pond
aow.
The vicar of Saltney (Bog.), when asked
f rhis vote by a Liberal candidate, replied—“No,
sir; I cannot vote for you. All Liberals are either
humbugs or liars.” “There is,” says Truth, in
quoting the incident, “no respectable working
man who would have disgraced himself by making
such an offensive remark. Yet we are told that
one great argument in favour of the Established
Church is that it maintains ‘ a gentleman in every
parish to refine the manners of the people.’ ”
Fling up your three hats, Isaac, and jingle
your three balls, Solomon I A Jew has married
into the Royal Family of England. There is no
doubt of it. A French paper has taken the trouble
to hunt up the genealogy of Prince Battenberg.
It is not a flattering one. The name of his uncle
was Haucke—a good name for a Jew. Unele
Haucke was a Russian spy. He entered the Russian
Imperial service as a page, and subsequently
threw up his situation to join the Poles in their
unsuccessful rising in 1861-2. During the time
Uncle Haucke was fighting for bleeding Poland
the Russian General, Mouraveiff, knew every-
hing of what was going on where Uncle
Haucke was. It subsequently transpired that
Uncle Haucke was specially employed by
che Russian Government as a spy. After
his, Uncle Haucke went to Prance with the
intention, no doubt, of living there in luxury to a
reen old age on the fruits of his noble conduct,
Rut he made a mistake in this. The Po es might
ot be able to overthrow their Russian tyrants,
■ut they could put a head on Uncle Haucke. And
cney did. He was found one day with a hole
through his chest and a sweet smile on his face.
The hole exactly fitted a revolver-bullet. This
French paper says that “ it does not seem prudent
for English Cabinet Ministers to let him (Batten-
berg) assume a confidential position beside the
Queen,” because, it goes on to say: “It is very
profitable to do secret service work of an impor-
tant kind for Russia.” Imagine Battenberg coming
home gloomingly one day and saying to Beatrice:
“ Bee. this kind of thing can’t go on. I’ve had to
smoke tuppenny cigars for the last fortnight, and
I tried to touch Teck for a half-crown this morn-
ing, but it was no use. He told me he hadn’t seen
half-a-crown for a month, and the milkman had
issued a distress warrant against him. He asked
me if I would back a bill for him for two ‘ quid.’
I said I would if he would go halves. He agreed,
and I did it, hut when we went to the money-
lenders they laughed at us, and one said if we
didn’t clear out suddenly he would send for a
policeman. Of eourse we cleared out, and then
Teck went round to a Jew he knew, and this Jew
said he oould only advance us 7s. 6d. on it—the
risk was too great for any more Teck said he
would take that. Then we divided, and spent the
old sixpence in a drink. I've brought home
three bob. I couldn't do any more, Bee.” Then
Beatrioe replies—” Web, dear, I suppose I’ll have
to take the ’bus to the Palace and pump mother
for some more political secrets ” The French
paper (Le Gaulois) winds up with the grim re-
mark “ Modb. re Less&r will, doubtless, keep a
close eye on this Koyalised person with a view of
studying hfii capabilities as a conscious or uncon-
scious instillment.” But perhans this is only their
French fun.
It is wrong to prophecy “unless you
? n 2 w, ™ but Wo may be prooheiic upon one sub-
ject. The great success of the cable tram ways of
Melbourne has seat the shares to nearlyl 300 per
cent, premium in price. A syndicate is lorming
! nere to make a similar movement for reform of
Sydney’s street traffic.
THE SECRET OF SUCCESS.
Drink, my friends, St. Louis Beer
Will cheer the youth and maid:
No better beer, you need not fear,
And it’s always good for trade.
He who would rake ihe money in
When trade begins to rise,
Which soon it will, must now begin,
You must advertise. 5 "
Of course every one wants value for their
money— Wolfe’s Schnapps is the best value you
can obtain.
Notice!—Reliable Old Australian Wines
selected vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs
Only sold by Hockings, 143 Pitt-street.
If you value your good name do not put
it in jeopardy by selling counterfeits of Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
MacLaughlin’s Bodega, 306 George-street
lear Hunter-street, wines from the best vine
mrds of Australia—by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Cold Puncheons, &c.*
That 1 urred torgue, bad tasting mouth and mis-
erable feeling &ay you need American Co’s. Hop
Bitters Jtteao and believe
Here is Summer upon us, causing a mighty
thirst. Don’t f«il to obtain your supply of Lemon-
ade, seltzer. Soda Water, Ginger Ale, Tonio, Potass
and Lithia Water (for Gout), of Dalrn and Oertel,
A! rated Water and Cordial Manufacturers, 403 Pitt-
street. Delivered regularly in town and suburbs *
Kind friends think of us particularly at
wedding time. Thoughts spur us to action. Ac-
tions take the fofm of mementos, and these latter
assume various forms, uifficuity in the way of
selecting presents ministered to by seeking the
assistance of Bray Brothers, 402 and 404 George-
street. A more beautiful lot of goods, whether
for use or adornment, than their sets tor dinner,
breakfast, tea, dessert, or toilet, statuary, vaies,
and fancy glass, it would be impossible to find in
the oolouy*
Keep your health by taking Wolfe’o
Schnapps. It is the purest stimulant in the
world. Ask for Wolfe’s.
mm
Ik Derangement of the Liver
THE CAUSE OE DISEASE
IN THE
STOMACH,
KIDNEYS
—AND—
STSTEII.
the Kwo C«nege° ofM\SL 8 , U bT ary °' * L *° tUrB Up ° n the LiT6r ’ de “ Ter6d betore
DR. J. HAYDOCK,
The Liver has been known as the great blood-maker and blood-purifier of the Circulation From
its size and spongy structure it plays a most important part in the animal eonnmnv »» wS
assimilation and nutrition. Food taken in the mouth and acted upon by the digestive organs of the
U ln A° Glucose and Peptone, and in these form? enters the Portal ?ein He?l bv
the action of the liver, these substances are converted into a form of sugar and nass out of the liver
by a large vein, called the Hepatic vein, into the general circulation. The new material now formed
system! W ° purpoBes ’ viz : the maintenance of heat In the body andWsting iTth?’"cellgroXh Tth?
. . Dr - Murohison says, “ Th© composition of bile and its secretion is very complex. It is constantly
being secreted by the liver, and, increasing suddenly before eating, gradually decreases as soon as the
appetite is satisfied and feeding ceases." Now, if this most important thl b?dy become?
torpid, or the passage of bile interfered with, emaciation and disease ensue I note eight marked
peculiarities that now occur, and which we all know of 6 eRt marUed
1. The patient oomplains of a feeling of weight and fullness of the stomach.
Distension of the bowels by wind.
Heartburn.
A feeling of weariness, pains in the limbs and great sleepiness after meals,
A bad taste in the mouth, especially in the morning, and furred tongue.
Constipation, with an occasional attaok of diarrhoea.
Headaohe in front of head.
Depr J B Jt2? h ? f B P irit s and great melanoholy, with lassitude and a disposition to leave
everything for to-morrow.
All of the above symptoms go to ehow functional derangement of the liver: and now comes the
great importance of any error made as to the condition of the patient. He should
vide himself with a LIVER STIMULANT, the most eommos form of which Ta PiU Dailv lx'.
S^P^ S that this, when the Pill is compounded properly, is the readiest mode of inciting’ and
promoting the action of the Liver, and can be almost always relied on, I have devoted many vears of
my life, as nr-ny of you now before me know, to compounding a Pill that will act readily and svstem-
nf whfnS 8 i a o Bm<> Vf Rem !*E' do . Q j, ,t u eli eve In great purgatives, and therefore have nmde a PilLone
of which is an active and thorough dose. I have called it h
Or. tiaydock’s itw Liver Pill (Sugar Coated*)
One Pill is a Dose! One Pill is a Dose! One Pill is a Dose!
For all Diseases of the Kidneys, Dr. Haydook’s New Live r Pills are a perfect cure,
will satisfy the most sceptical.
One Pill
a . , F « r F . em g ,e Diseases, Nervous Prostration, Weakness, General Lassitude, Want of Appetite, an
Sick Headache, Dr. Haydock’s New Liver Pills will be found an Effectual Remedy.
They are universal in their effects, and a cure can almost always be guaranteed.
Each vial contains Twenty Pills—One Pill is a Dose. Price Twenty-Five Cents.
FOB BALE BY ALL DHTJGGISTS.
Every Pill is Sugar Coated. If your druggist does not keep them, we will mail them free to anv ad-
dress on receipt of 25 cents. Five vials for $l.OO. BUT AT ONCE. DO NOT DELAY. ° ad
, c A UT A°?r*~:? 0 J secure the genuine Haydock’s Pills, observe that the signature of J H Francis
Agent for the United States, is written on every dozen packages. Purchase none without this. ran 18
As Dr. Haydock’s Liver Pills are entirely different from the 213 kinds now in the market, anv scon.
tic can have a sample bottle sent him free on receipt of his name aiad address. a y HCOp
HAYDOCK & CO., New York, U. S.
J, TURNER ROBINSON & CO/S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 Gearga-straet,
Established 1864.
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guaranteed.
QTJOD FACIMUS VALDE FAOIMUS.
(What we do we do well.)
- N
TOUR PHOTO.-If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potogfaph of yourself, ac-
cept what iS but well-meant
couusel, and first a visit to
the vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries In the Sydney
Arcade. There you can inspect an
arrayof portraiture, not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co., which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost universal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as potographers.
Prices—C-D-V.,; Cabinets* 30s. per dozen.
CREELMAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, SYDNEY ARCADE.
QPHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
BYDNEY BRANCHES :
04 PITT-STREET, and 538 GEORGE-BTREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000.000
Reserve Fund .. .. . 675,000
This Bank has Aarents in all the principal oities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA, and cm offer special facilities for
deadng in Bullion, Bids oi Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
EDWARD B. HOLT. Manager.
FREE
PBt.EBCKIP y IONS are to
be found In the “LIGHT AND
LlFE,’’forthe speedy cure of Nervous Debility,
Lost Manhood, Despondency, &c. A copy of
this book will be sent free, sealed. Address—
S. WAKD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy.
76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
Nervous and debilitated sufferers.
—A medical treatise, showing how you may
be cured without consulting- a medical man. With
valuable recipes for purifying the blood, removing
skin diseases, urinal affections, indigestion, &0.,
&o. Bent post free, for six penny stamps. Address
Medico, P. 0., Box 766, Sydney.
New Central Dispensary.
53 MARKET STREET,
Two doors from Evening News Office
(Opposite Farmer’s).
T. JONES & CO.
Pb. C., M.P.S., and A.P.S., England
(LATE T. ELLIS, M.P.S.)
Prescriptions prepared by qualified Chemists only
at Reform erices.
Branch Houses :
Crown Street, tram t erminug, Sydney,
and Suva, Fiji. J
, r Orders sent by pest promptly executed.
Me ™ Dl forwarded to any part of the colonies.
Pills, Powders, and Medicines (not liquid) oan
be sent by post.
GOULET CHAMPAGNE.
OF UNRIVALLED PURITY AND
EXCELLENCE.
Thus characterised by one of the highest medical
authorities • Its Qualities clvg of a ve.v~y high
ordev: it possesses a charming boquet, fruity and
pronounced; essentially a dry wine without attenu-
ation, and free from acidity: full and crisp."
TRAPP & ELLES,
6 Bridge Street, Sydney,
Agents for New South Wales.
T HB INSTSMc| S S l Oc'Iffi;uSS STOCK
Capital ... £lOO,OOO.
Head Office: Melbourne.
Victorian Directors :-Thomas Learmonth, Fso.
Chairman; John L. Dow. Esq., M.L.A.; J E
Levien, Esq., M.L.A. * • *
agSdeSh.* 16 ’ SheePs PlgS ’ and Bosa lnaure<
acce Pt ed on Live Stock (coverlnt
mortality), also on Merchandise and Hulk.
New South Wales Branch : 171 Castlereagh-street
H. S. BADGERY, Managing Director.
H. M. HAMILTON, Manager.
TACKLE of every description
Rods, all prices. Artificial Flies
rrogs, Fish, and Insects. Piaited Silk: Lines
Twisted Silk Lines, Hooks on Gut, Gimp, ant
Wire. Our Noted Sydney Lines, from ffii. to 3s
each. Long Bamboos for fishing rods, and ever:
description of Fishing Tackle. J
& al! , Bizes; Prices sent on application
Also Seine, Herring, and Salmon Twines? als<
EASTWAY BROTHERS, Fishing Tackle Depot,
411 George-streel


(Ilticura
.Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
*NV-
Scrofula on Neck-
PSM PLES TO SCROFULA
DISFIGURING- HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
1 .obs of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Octicura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cutic-URA Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beaulifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
•with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
•will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the RjS-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
.for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have, been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura. Remedied,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four pag;e
hook, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Shin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautificr
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Daby xiU-
ruors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, bun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Bkm.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
Ror Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
Never Travel Without It-
Wanted in Every House.
)‘KRHSESE‘
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS]
ALLNOXIOUS INSECTS,
FLEAS, FLIES, BEETLES MOSQUITOES,
COCKROACHES.VrV; AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESSTO BIRDS DOGS,
FOWLS OROTHER
ANIMALS
m
x\<
■
Wmintins
•el^i s K UPWARDS
BbyALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS
WHOIISAU
FELTON-CRIMWADE.UC?
MELBOURNE
Wanted in Every House-
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
AHHOOOtBESTOHEOI
A Clergyman having
1 3 forth® CUREof NERVOUS EXHAUS-
TION, PREMATURE DECAY, &C., h« it
last discovered a simple SELF-CURE, which, fe«
the cake of suffering humanity, he will aend FHKB
the Prescription which CURED him, , Addrnmi
with self-addreesedstamped envelope—
Ur. E. A. CLARKE, P.O. Box MB. Sydney.
r.
OTUDI ECONOMY
O and
HaveyourTTmbrellal'rames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-llned and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Bepairs neatly eze-
YANKEE DOODLE
|gggjWyJCH)Dj|||
ei/r/
§; O '*SON&SO* S <|
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
ZVKS'TTT
v?
IQUEJ
TOBACC O
-^6
DIXSON A SONS, Sydney,
loesesa the largest Factory, Manufacture more
Tobacco, and consume more American Leaf
tban any factory in the southern hemisphere.
tsr YANKEE DOODLE, CONQUEROR, Sir Roger, Champion, and Dixson’s Cut Tobaccos.
BUDGEREE! BUDGEREE!!
Trade
H,..,,._
Rn"?
IK ‘
. ’ H, -
x; x J a.
' i' w" ' ‘ ‘ ' .
. 1 ‘ w; ,1 , ‘ J
' , ' mg. i ' 3V
2-; 51:2 : 53’ Wm k"
, ‘ ‘5 " ,1 .- ‘ ‘ '9 ‘
h' 4%; cw ';;\\\.'
vii-a g~ ;_ 4 M"
V ."7- 7" 'u‘ I f/
. , J. 7 :2 ? ‘4'?"1,
— -€’« ‘9. a “ —" v.
t;;._=u , ' a: 7 ‘ 'l. .‘
:8. Ag, ‘3? ‘ ‘
Mark
HO MORE FEVER.
titt i\rnrm?tt, msTN"FECTANT is the most wonderful Germ-killer and Fever-
dE“nl ™household should be without it a» it mstuutly kill, all bad
destroyer Knov from elosete , had drains, &c. Sold at all chemists.
Depot: JAS. C. STEEL, Bulletin-lane, Lower Pitt-st.
0
tA
(s
CO
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguish Wilson’s Ame-
rican “ Extra Toast ” BISCUITS. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and incomparible
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Sussex Street. Sydney.
Jfurve .* ‘*'7~ jftTS
1 ft- r r
u
P—F
rnrt
r«~
VTmLLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
V V of MUSIC in the city.
Musio.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Danoes, Ac.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Bervieea, Ac.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, Ac.
Orchestral and Brass Band Musio, in variety.
New catalogues can be had gratia on appliea-
Stationery.— Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, Ac., at lowest prices.
Printing.—lnvoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards. ~
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in paroeis,
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Pans, Ac.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Christmas and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock,
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
Zi Cali and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever invented. The Trypograph
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
812 GEORGE STREET.
.A.'brstlki.a.racs.’s
Fills
The Great Liver Remedy*
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth con*"
tury ;so simple, yet most effective; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
lmm ediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un*
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E.'Prossef
and Co., Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge; Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations*
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
jr. BUTTERFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
Street, Redfern.
X m eici. Grloss
ALL THE MOST
modern and Elegant
DESIGNS.
American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
usmauiftOL
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY,
SPECIALLY IMPORTED FOR CITY OR COUNTRY USE
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY,
AT
LOWEST PRICES.
mum.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
§ar EVERY VEHICLE GUARANTEED


The Patriot 1
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When honest, upright means of living fail.
And nought’s before but hunger, or the gaol,
One path remains, that leads to wealth and fame,
If well and boldly played—the patriot game.
Tn every role to act a leading part
Requires some brains, if not an honest heart;
But Nature, in a sportive mood, decreed
That minus both the Patriot may succeed.
“ A man must serve his time to learn his trade,”
But Patriots never—they are ready-made.
To acquire his art much pains a snob must take;
A fool or knave off-hand a law can make.
If, after years of toil, you still are poor,
And see the wolf for ever at, the door,
As a last chance try on the Patriot dodge—
Become a member of an Orange lodge,
Also some big man’s har ger-on. and tout.
And, if you will, of Ten pei ance loudly spout.
Keep yourself well before the public eye,
“ The People’s Cause!” for ever be your cry.
Crawl, wriggle, Halter—show a furious zeal
On all occasions for the Common Weal
At nothing stick to ravish power and pelf;
But 1 hen in public always sink yourself.
A seat in Parliament will compensate
For all the meanness of your present state.
What pickings waitthe lucky Patriot there!
Yet should this prove "A Castle in the Air,”
Your zeal Ingratitude should never quench—
You’ll serve a thankless country on the Bench.
For principles let simpletons contest;
Your motto be—Whatever pays is best.
As one your interest; and your country’s view,
A BAB SHOT,
HE (with sentiment): “AH, MY DEAR MISS DE POTZFOYNT, WHY HAD I NOT THE GOOD
FORTUNE TO KNOW YOU FIFTEEN YEARS AGO?”
SHE: “HOW RIDICULOUS[?] I WAS THEN ONLY TWO YEARS OLD. (Reflects also that
"Par" was then only "retail, ” and that she wore soiled pinny and nose.)
Thus, when you serve yourself, you serve her, too.
Observe all changes of the public mind,
Change with the change, and never lag behind.
This is the one great art to rule a State—
The people’s wishes to anticipate.
No art is easier than to govern man,
They may be led, as sheep are to a pen.
If a straw's held before a donkey’s nose,
He’ll follow that,—where’er you go. he goes.
The people can be had with equal ease,
And once they’re pleased, you draw them where
you please;
As babes with pap, with flattery they’re fed!
Then feed them full,-from them’s your daily
bread.
Their power, prudence, wit, and wisdom praise,
And, above all. soft-soap their present craze.
When frenzied envious r'vals round you rave,
And call you traitor, windbag, fool, or knave,
Never despair!—the poor man s candidate
Has often lived to steer the Ship of State.
If by a wicked Press bowled out and lashed,
Assume a face of brass—don’t be abashed.
Audacity the people always wins,
And, like some virtues, covers many sins.
Protest your innocence with oaths and tears,
Recount the services of bygone years,
And, above all, the Christian part act well,
Forgive your foes, but wish them all in Hell.
Tenter field.
Styx.
A “ tenner” invested on Archer’s mounts
throughout the year at starting price would (says
London Echo) have resulted as follows:—Lost,
£4l HI; won, £3404; showing an aggregate loss of
&ra.
“A Family of Seven Burned to a Crisp,”
is the descriptive heading of a par. about a Are in
an American journal.
W. Q. George, the ex-amateur crack run-
ner of England, is at present on a visit to the
States, ostensibly for the sake of his health, hut as
he has offered to run L. E. Myers a series of five
races, it does not look as if he will object to an-
nex a few Yankee dollars.
The Melbourne Club should certainly re-
serve to themselves the right of naming the cap-
tain of the team about to visit England, for it is
necessary that a captain of the Australians should
be conversant in other matters than cricket, and
judging by the light of recent events, they can-
not boast of many such across the border. Should
be be picked in the team, the right man for the
place is Tommy Hor , but perhaps it is as well
not to mention names.
Ed. Hanlan submitted the following
letter to a reporter, as showing something of the
character of John Teemer. Teemer’s letter from
Hanlan was not put in“M‘Keesport, Pa., June
29.—Friend HanJan,—I am well and hope that you
and your familie are the same. I hope that every-
thing is rite you and I will row a race. I am shur
that we can make ten thousand a peas I will du
everything you think best and after this race I
will go to Australia with you and friend Edward I
hope you will ancer this letter and when you
aucer it you send in care of Barney Morris so es
nobody will see the letter. Hoping to her from
you sun I remain your friend -John Ieemeb.”
It is evident from this that if Teemer does win
racer, it is not by means of a “spell.”
..^u 9 Victorian Government lias ordered
aii the shire councils to make, on a certain day, a
combined attack on the rabbits. Here ia an op-
mo h ir Jo 5? Kobert8 °Q to fret even
with Plain Bill, by sending: a contingent over the
Murray to assist our sister along in its hour of
A Thankful Mother.
“If the gratitude of a sensitive young girl ” writes
a thankful mother. “ can afford you pleasure, vou
have that of my daughter to its fullest extent.
She was our hope and pride, crushed to the earth
with a disfiguring scrofulous skin humour, which
has deen oonmletely cured, after endless doctoring
and great suffering, both in mind aud body, bv tt
CuTictTRA Bbsolvent, internally, and, the Cun
Cuba Soap, the great skin oures and beautifiers
externally. Her skin is now as soft, white, and
beautiful as a baby's.”
Sound Advice. When you get a cood
article note the brand. Persons should be careful
to get Wolfe’s Sc hnapps. wx ux
No case of affection of the throat or lun<r S
exists which cannot be greatly relieved by the use
of Ayers’Cherky Pectoral, and it will always
cure when the disease is not already beyond the
control of medicine.
In spite of all imitations Wolfed
Schnapps stands in the foremost ranks of bever
ages. Demand Wolfe’s Schnapps. ever-
REMEMBER THIS,
IP YOU ARE SICK.
If you are sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid N.ature in making you well
again when all else fails.
, .If you are comparatively well, hut feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any of the numerous
diseases of stomach or bowels, it is
your own fault if you remain ill, for
American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will find a “Balm
in Gilead ’ in the use of American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of malarial,
epidemic, bilious and intermittent
fevers—by the use of American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, American HOP
BITTERS will give you fair skin, rich
blood, the sweetest breath, health, and
comfort. In short, they cure ALT,
Diseases of the Stomach, Bowels,
Blood, Liver, Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
£5OO
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
American Hop Bitters, costing but a
Will you let them suffer ?
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
American Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
I® - See if the name of Dr. Soule Is hlowi
In every hottle, if not it Is counterfeit.
WILLIAM BALL,
THE “PROFESSIONAL” AND PHARMACEU-
TICAL CHEMIST.
61 Bourke-street East, Melbourne.
THE Toilet and Theatrical Requisites, manu-
factured by W . Ball, are composed of the
purest ingredients, and are guaranteed not to
cause the least mjury to the most delicate skin.
la ?^ S * ow * either in P ri ™te life
or of the Theatrical Profession, who do not look
upon the
BLOOM OF PEMQHES
(REGISTERED)
as the one article that is perfectly safe and satis-
factory to use either for tbo
THEATRE, BALLROOM, OR PROMENADE.
-
ii
9*
S’.
Our;Cupids Manufacturing Bloom of Peaches
O “ D S Sir,- 1 consider your ‘make-up' perfect,
ar J < i_ should never think of using anyth' ntr else
while it is possible to obtain it.—Yours truly,
Ed. Farley.”
The following 1 ladies and gentlemen have also
i nK m J h ® highest terms of these
Toilet Requisites Mesdames Louise Pomerov.
peorwyne Myra Kemble, Eva Davenport
Roland VVatt Phillips, etc., etc.; Messieurs George
Titheradge, George Rignold, Sheridan, Henry
Hodgson, W. J. Holloway, Fred. Marshall, Brian
Darley, Frank Cates, etc..
To be obtained of all Chemists.
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and- 7/6 per bottle.
Wholesale Agents, N.S.W.:
Messrs. PROSSER & CO., Sydney.
•N v.
cx
-v*
V.l Fill SCO,
LIMITED,
356 George-sfrest,
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
PIANOS, ORGANS
and
MUSIC
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EASY TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues & Prices on Application.
W. H. PALING & Co.
356 George-street, Sydney.
St
BULL DOO ALU.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
T®® B^ healthful, refreshing and thirst-
quenching properties of this wond-reriowMwi
r^Tx, o^^ 83 ’ 4, le hft ve obtained for Messrs
Robert Porter and Co. the highest anard
gßrsaff S’ wwssaasrtpar ?KHs
Sole e Ag n entf. Pirit Morchants -~CATTELL & CO*
EVEKYBODY )
SHOULD USE f
FBMBLX/gS
EXTRA. SUPERFINE
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHT? at
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approy ed
mi. Process Machinery P Y9fl
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the OITAT pry
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD
victohia non m LLi
*3l «eor*e-street. Sydney.
UJSIA UNAiiLili JiliuM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S
CELEBSATEL
AID CAKES, TREACLE AID DOLDEI STRIP,
Self-raising Crated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat
Infants’ Food, &c.
FO f SUPERIORITY 0F QUALITY and excellence,
. mo 03 Md Sydney I E 1880; Special Gold Medal
, iu.t-iuuurne, J.bbl; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-4,
Sydney W. « dKiSU ft CO., S4S end 348 Knt-ltol.


warded Three
prize Medals
u .3
. I! '
lr'a‘g'fa'f 'cx‘
2.3',.~=.~,-«~‘.;.
O" ‘l A ‘ ‘0
for Superior
Workmanship.
A. B. PIKE,
Importer and Manufacturer of
high art furniture
AND
Appointments,
Brass, Iron, and Mickle-plated Bedsteads,
Woven, Wire, and other Mattresses.
Velvet-pile, Kidderminster, Tapestry, and Brus-
sels Carpets in Newest Colourin gs and Designs.
Blankets, Quilts, Hearth Rugs, Door Mats, Dinner
Services, Chamber Ware.
K.tcken Requisites, &e , &c.
The Only Address is
355 anil 365 a Pitt-street,
BETWEEN
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
AWARDED THREE PRIZE MEDALS
FOR DURABILITY.
!§io^™|weS
ESSKN CEo** LIFE
rime only infallible remedy for
/Ei\VWs})EßlLrrf:
• 1 %
* a
THERE are many men in this colony who are,
day by day, melancholy, miserable, and a
burden to themselves, throueh early indiscretion
or over-indulgence. It is to these that this adver-
tisement is addressed. Impotence drags its victim
in its unhappy train through years of suffering,
rendering his existence a misery. He sees his
fellow beings hale, hearty, and vigorous—in the
full enjoyment of manhood’s greatest privilege-
and naturally becomes despondent, seeking soli-
tariness, and shunning society generally.
He is lured into trying some of the So-called
Remedies, but without avail, and imagines he
must go down to the grave a hopeless invalid. If
such be your calamity, know that your ease can
be relieved and a Cure effected by a simple course
of this invaluable Medicine, which will, in the
short space of Four Weeks, render ycu capable
of appreciating and Bnioyiog Life.
This valuable remedy affords relief, and perma-
nently cures all who suffer from Wasting and
Withering of the Nervous and Muscular Tissues,
Spermatorrhoea, and all Urinary Deposits, which
cause incapacity and degeneracy, total and partial
prostration, and every other exhaustive derange-
ment of the system- regenerating all the im-
portant elements of the human frame, and en-
abling man to fulfil bis most sacred obligations.
The directions are very simple, and require no
restraint or hindrance from business. Pamphlets
enclosed in each case with testimonials.
In cases at 13s , or four quantities in one, for 365,;
if by coach; 3s. 6d. extra. City and suburbs free.
Agents for Sydney :
Messrs. W. BARCLAY & CO.,
43 Goulburn Street,
One door from George Street, South.
Parcels, packed sveu rely, and free from obser-
vation, sent to any part of the colony on receipt
Pcst Office Order, or Postage Stamps,
with the greatest promptitude.
PAIN
Moulton's pain paint
CURES ALL PAIN,
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
ttAYw« Ij ® lA ’ headache, TOOTHACHE.
RAINS, BRUISES, SURNS, SCALD 3, & c - and
cures DIARRHCEA-
* n< i pains COI,ICB * ,nd all Jthox sterna aches
r * c © s £3/ - Sold lverjwheife 6
8- E. WSOULTON, SOLE PROPr.IL7OR g
AND O^'DNEY,
PAINT
NERVINE
Trade MARK—“ TONIC NERVINE.”
AIN, & SPEED* OURjstor Nex-
A _„__ VUJ „ 4ur4ll .
that snSnl®?* General’ Debility, andalTcomplatats
Toothed B from iacii of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
ApiSdt« he V Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
°omriisv!nV« Fo^ ai ® Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Blood tj B * Den era] Prostration, Impoverished
fas, Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
removL l 4?, 101:110 iaa soothing effects it at once
In PhSfi 1 saving for Alcohol. By its
hieatb o®faer powerful vitalising
TONIC NERVINE noiu-
Cfi> vigour t# the whole system.
8 illegal.
TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE,
PAUL LIEBE'
UNLIKE OTHERS
DOES NOT
0
w
lH
w
fOf<
FROMI
ALCHEMISTS
INI0&200Z B 0T s |
WHOLESALE AGENT
.■"“iSK'ts,
AYER’S PILLS.
O'
A large proportion of the diseases which
cause human suffering result from derange-
ment of the stomach, bowels, and liver.
Ayek’s Cathartic Pills act directly upon
these organs, and are especially designed to
cure the diseases caused by their derange-
ment, including Constipation, Indiges-
tion, Dyspepsia, Headache, Dysentery,
and a host of other ailments, for all of
which they are a safe, sure, prompt, and
pleasant remedy. The extensive use of these
Pills by eminent physicians in regular prac-
tice, shows unmistakably the estimation in
which they are held by the medical profes-
sion.
These Pills are compounded of vegetable
substances only, and are absolutely free from
calomel or any other injurious ingredient.
A Sufferer from Headache writes:
“Ayer’s PiLls are invaluable tome, and
are my constant companion. I have been
a severe sufferer from Headache, and your
Pills are the only thing I could look to
for relief. One dose will quickly move my
bowels and free my head from pain. They
are the most effective and the easiest physio
I have ever found. It is a pleasure to me to
speak in their praise, and I always do so
when occasion offers.
W. L. Page, of W. L. Page & Bro.”
Franklin St., Richmond,Va., June 3,1882.
“I have used Ayer’s Pills in number-
less instances as recommended by you, and
have never known them to fail to accomplish
the desired result. We constantly keep them
on hand at our home, and prize' them as a
pleasant, safe, and reliable family medicine.
FOR DYSPEPSIA they are invaluable.
J. T. Hayes.”
Mexia, Texas, June 17,1582.
The Rev. Francis B. Harlowe, writing
from Atlanta, Ga., says: “For some years
past I have been subject to constipation,
from which, in spite of the use of medi-
cines of various kinds, I suffered increasing
inconvenience, until some months ago I
began taking Ayer’s Pills. They have
entirely corrected the costive habit, and
have vastly improved my general health.”
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills correct irregu-
larities of the bowels, stimulate the appe-
tite and digestion, and by their prompt and
thorough action give tone and vigor to the
whole physical economy.
PREPARED BY
Dr.J.O.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass*
Sold by all Druggists.
YOUNG,
OLD, AND
MIDDLE-
AGED,
[ All experiences the wonderful
beneficial effects of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Children with Sore Eyes, Sore
I Ears, or any scrofulous or syph-
ilitic taint, may be made healthy and strong
by its use.
Sold by all Druggists; $l, six bottles for f 5.
ELLIOTT BROS, and 8. HOFFNUNG & CO.
Wholesale Agents.
CONTINUED SUCCESS
OF
RILEY BROTHERS'
ORIGINAL
i\ numr uusi
PACKED in CANVAS, and INSURED against
LOSS.
I®" Carriage paid by mail all over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
The £5 Bale system has been in operation for 12
years, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe,
Price lists and patterns sent post free,
£5 LADY’S BALK,
6 Ladles’ Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
of good longclotb and
nioely trimmed. If de-
sired, other articles may
be ordered instead of
any of the above.
£K MOURNING BALK
25 yds. Blk. French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 doz. Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
GLOVES,
On receipt of 3s. in
stamps, we send, post
free, a pair of 2 or 4-
button kid or silk Gloves
any size or colour, good
quality and fashionable-
For aecouchements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Robe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £5.
15s.
We send, carriage free,
a Lady’s New Accouche-
ment Belt for fifteen
shillings, or a pair of best
Nursing Stays for tea
shillings.
DRESSMAKING.
We hay© a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials - Silks, Velvets, &c.—with
rices, and full instruction for self -measurement.
ii applied to.
RILEY BROTHERS,
ICS Oxford fe'treat, (Sydney-
Originators of the celebrated £5 Bates of Drapery
#5134"
W" " h . - 31" :‘” v1}
‘ ’/ uw ‘rﬂlfA ﬂu. 1; {HM \
W3 1* \“rmyg J _. mm“
M "“‘A."r1‘.\> _, ‘ ab
A ' " .- A
WW. «:2: p
kd't'ﬁm‘f‘h . ‘ v
M» = n 3;.
“ M :1“. 5 3j\.._»;.;z.
-, werb-v..,..‘gs 53 ~ - @‘y’
. "'¢W' * - at
‘ng;§§»¢»n _ V’ngug
_ 5s: 7‘ Q':'t‘?" mm 3;»
gym-‘2. 2*}; g‘ -
Vt" ”m4 7 ,?;,:¢I}:x :’ P} ”J a
-» $‘E—'€;"2.~*~;§1
ROWLANDS ODONTO is the beat, purest
and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as eilica clous for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; such
Rowlands’ Odonto has always proved itself to be.;
ROWLANDS EUKONIA is a beautifully
pure, delicate, and fragrant toilet powder, and
has lately been much improved. Each box has
inside the lid a certificate of Durity from Dr.
Redwood. Ph D , F.C.S,, &c. Sold in three tints :
white, rose, and cream.
ROWLANDMACASSAR OIL can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Pour sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents- Elliot Bros.
E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
A. & G. HUENERBEIN,
ROYAL
PIANOFORTE
AND
Music Warehouse,
318 GEORGE STREET.
Sole Agents for
John Brinsmoad & Son’s
CoSebrated Pianos.
Pianos sold on terms to suit purchasers.
THE LATEST MTTfIC AT HALE PRICE.
BELTS.
CURATIVE
electric ELECTRICITY.
HEALTH AVITHOUT MEDICINE.
Is obtained speedily and permanently by adopting:
the safe and never-failing: remedy of the new mode
of treatment by Electricity, as supplied to the
Human system by wearing tbe MAGNET tCAL
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO.'S genuine ELEC-
TRTC BELT, a restorer of impaired vitality and
failing health. It is an unvarying success in the
cure an -1 alleviation of Rheumatism, Indigestion,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Paralysis, Epilepsy, Constipa-
tion, Nervous Debility, and the numerous ailments
consequent upon living in a semi-tropical climate,
and tbe baneful effects of malaria, which alone
are caused by the deficiency or abstraction from
the body of the all-pervading element of llfe-
electrieiry. This mode of treatment is by far the
most perfect and successful method yet discovered
(combined with perfect safety) for supplying to the
body the continuous or imperceptible current of
electricity, without the aid of chain bands or use
of acid, thus giving no inconvenience to the
wearer. They are charged ready for use, and re-
tain their full power for a considerable period.
But to avoid any disappointment by their possible
less of electric power, and to keep the applianoes
up to their original strength, we undertake to re-
charge any of our appliances at the exciration of
twelve months, free of cost. One of the special
features of this treatment is the electric corset,
which is unsurpassed by its curative properties in
all female complaints, and is of superior shape and
manufacture. Price, 10s. and 15s.
GENT’B ELECTRIC BELTS are manufactured
expressly for tropical climates, of superior mate-
rial, in the shape of a riding belt, and are very
durable. Price, 155,; special power, 30s. In order-
ing size of waist outside first garment is required.
If mailed, 2s. extra. Lung Invigorators for the
successful treatment of all lung complaints,
hitherto without the domain of Electric Agency,
price 30s. All Avho have a tendency to weak lungs
should adopt this treatment before it is too late.
The appliances are adapted for local as well as con-
stitutional treatment in the form of Knee Caps,
7s. 6d. each ; Spine Bands, 10». Insoles—which are
invaluable for cold feet, defective circulation,
rheumatism—ls. 6d. per pair. Send size of boot,
or paper pattern of inside ; postage, la. fid. extra.
The public are warned against worthless imita-
tions of our goods, as the great success attending
the adoption of this mode of treatment has in-
duced other people to attempt, by so-called cau-
tions and notices, to mislead the public. Therefora
be careful to see that all goods are marked
“ Magnetical Electric Appliance Co., London and
Sydney.” All correspondence treated with the
greatest dispatch. Cheques and P.O. Orders to
be made payable to
E. S. NEILD & CO.,
158 Pitt-street,
SOLE PROPRIETORS FOR AUSTRALIA.
TO Country Journalists.—Leaders, Telegrams,
and Sydney Letters, supplied by competent
literary man of long experience, on moderate
terms. “ Beta.” Bulletin Office.
SOMETHING KTE¥!
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC HAIR CURLER
TOOTH BRUSH.
Ladies or Gentlemen who wish to quickly and
fashionably dress, crimp or curl the hair, beard
or moustache, by a new method, or to possess
sound, white teeth and rosy pirns are invited
to read the brief but interesting descrip-,
tion of these new inventions
Dr. SCOTT’S
Electric Appliances are now
sold and well known in
every part of tlie world
and are guaranteed
by the Pall Mall
Electric
Association.
m
m
GREAT
ANNOYANCE k
has been caused
to all people using
tooth brushes by the
bristles coming out in
the mouth. Tile Pall
Mall Electric Associ-
ation now take pleasure
in introducing to the Aus-
tralian public a Tooth Brush, which they
guarantee free from this troublesome defect.
The bristles are inserted in the handle by a
patent process, which renders it simply
impossible to come out in use. In ad-
dition to this, the handle of the Brush is
made of a newly invented material perma-
nently charged with an electro-magnetio
current, which acts without any shock
immediately upon the nervesand tissues
of the teeth and gums. The act of
brushing causes this current to flow
into the nerve cells and roots of
the teeth, and, like water poured
upon a plant, it invigorates and
vitalizes every part, arresting
decay, building up and re-
storing the natural white-
ness of the'enamel and
quickly producing
healthful, rosy-
coloured gums.
The handle is strong,
beautifully polished,
not. affected by acids,,
impervious to
moisture, and free
from that un-
pleasant musty
odour exu-
ding from
wet bone
handles.
THffl
JLL MALI
ectric
(A TfOiV
o the Aus-
! their new
Beard &
trier, it
cle, nickel-
plated, with an ebonizcd handle, and it
should occupy a place in the toilet of
every lady and gentleman in Australia.
By its aid, the hair, beard, or moustache
can be curled in any desired style in from
one to two minutes. For ladies, it produces
the “ Langtry Style,” the “ l’atti Bang,” the
“Montague Curl,” and any other styles
desired by ladies wearing their hair in the
fashionable “loose and fluffy” mode.
Those who wear waves or other forms
of artificial hair will find this Eleetriu
Curler a very useful article. It does
not break off and ruin the hair,
like the ordinary crimping pro-
cess, and in wet or hot weather
it works as {prickly as in cold.
For curling the Moustache
or Beard in a moment, it
has no equal, while it is
so simple in its opera-
tion that any one of
either sex earn use it
successfully the first
time.
Directions
accompany
each Curler,
Ijowwnr, Enm,AKn.
r. Scott, New York.
Your “ Crimper and Curler'
works charmingly. Its effect
causes universal admiration.
They are most simple to
consider them worth a guinea apiece
to those who devote much attention to
the ever-changing arrangement of the
Hair. L. LANGTRY.
Cakltoh Cr.un, Losnon, W,.
Dr. Scott's *' Electric Curler " curls the Moustache
and Beard most perfectly. My wife uses them in
crimping her Hair with pleasing results. Col. D.W.GI,
The Royal Dental Society of Loudon testify in the strongest
terms as to the quick benefits following the usqmf Dr. Scott’s
Electric Tooth Brush, and many experts in dentistry declare it to
be the greatest invention in dental appliances since the manufacture
of artificial teeth.
Under Royal
and
Health ensured by using
Dr. Scott’s Beautiful Electric
Corsets, Belts, Electric Hair,
Flesh, and Tooth Brushes,
or Insoles,
O ViLc
m
<tS!
C.IB-
-
£*EET
Distinguished
Patronage.
All Goods manufactured
by Dr. Scott boar this labej.’
BEWARE OR
WORTHLESS
IMITATIONS.
Price, 2s. 6d.*eacli, of all chemists and storekeejDers; or the two
direct, post free, for 7s.
Remittances can be made by cheque, P. 0.0., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL ELECTKIC ASSOCIATION,
04 Hergarat-afraet,'. Sydney.
P.O, BOX, 231.


LAND OF THE CROCODILE.
(BY MAR[?]GLLNE[?].)
Well known in North Queensland is Edwin
Norris, the solicitor of Townsville. He is one o
the soundest lawyers in Queensland. He is also
an ardent student of astronomy; and possesses,
probably, the finest private telescope in Aus-
tralia. In religion he leans lovingly towards
Pantheism and has an opinion of creeds and
dogmas not to be expressed in all the languages of
Elihu Burritt. One day he was waited on by
Police Magistrate Morey and Walter Hayes. It
had been decided that lewnsville should become
a cathedral town, and so the orthodox and Bishop
Staunton were out on the warpath for cash to
erect a gorgeous sacred gunyah to cost £30,000.
Morey and Hayes called for a sub. of £lOO from
Norris. It may be mentioned that the legal as-
tronomer is slightly deaf. On this particular
occasion his hearing was more than usually defec-
tive. “We intend to ereet, a cathedral,” said
Morey. Norris heard this. “Ah I very good, you
have my full permission to erect half a dozenl
“And, of course, a leading citizen like you will
give £lOO towards it,” said Morey, Norris didn't
hear that. “You will give us a hundred, won’t
you ?” sail Morey in a voice that, was heard over
on Magnetic Island. The smile that Irradiated the
features of Norris was like the flash ol sheet
lightning in the bosom of the midnight cloud.
“ Gentlemen! astronomy is my religion, a noble, a
godlike religion, the study of the Universe and
the manifestation of the Eternal—a study wide
and deep as eternity! How, theD, can you come
to me for money to build your miserable religious
structures and assist In propagating one of the
gigantic ecclesiastical impostures that afflict
humanity ? But I will be magnanimous with you I
Give me £lOO pounds towards another and larger
telescope and I will give you £5O towards your
cathedral!” Then Morey and Hayes crawled out
and went round to the Queen’s in solemn silence
and buried their pale noses in a couple of tumblers.
• * *
On veritable spider threads does the
judgment sword hang suspended over this doomed
earth. We walk through life on Al-Sirat bridges
of single hairs hung trembling above unfathom-
able abysses. Even Love himself, highest gift of the
gods, holds an equally uncertain tenure. lam In
possession of a painful illustration of this. I have
the tale from the youth himself. He was engaged
to the daughter of a clergyman. They loved each
with all the passionate ardour exhibited generally
by young hearts in the first fervour of Love’s young
dream. She was good and pious. He himself can-
didly admitted to me that he was neither one nor
the other. At times, even in her presence, a word
of somewhat irridescent hue would escape in an
absent moment, and sunder the two souls for a
few days or weeks. One afternoon they were
seated on a fallen tree clo3e to the river in the
usual position. His left arm included three seg-
ments of a circle and her little velvitty left paw
was soothingly clasped in his right. He was a
somewhat romantic youth, and quoted poetry
copiously. The only other spectator of the scene
was a robust red soldier ant in grand form, rambling
Tound on an exploring trip at the junction of thB
young man with the log. “My darling,” he said,
“ The cold in clime are cold in blood,
Their love it scarce deserves the name,
But miae is like the lava flood
That boils in Etna’s ’ —Woo-ooh!
“ Oh Sheol and blazes 1” This, you perceive, Is the
exaot time at which the red soldier ant took an ac-
tive pirt in the programme. And in the spasmodic
recoil from the poisoned weapon of the treacher-
ous foe, the young man went backwards over the
log, accompanied by the clergyman’s daughter
and a pair of small Balmorals and a pair of num-
ber eights were pointed simultaneously at the
zenith. They have never spoken since. Their
pathways now are due North and due South. The
exclamation, coupled with the subsequent indig-
nity, dashed apart for ever—
“ Two hearts the world in vain had tried,
And sorrow but more closely tied,
That stood the storm when waves were rough,
Yet in a suDny hour fall off ” a log.
* * *
He was a young man, “highly connected,”
and bf came to Queensland to start sugar-grow-
ing. He had the usual “ imported ” exalted notion
of himself, and was, doubtless, surprised to find
that his landing on our shores was not the cause
of an earthquake and an eclipse of the sun. He
Selected on one of the Northern rivers, and started
out one day to fix a site for a house, with the
intention of living there. He was rather nervous
concerning myalls and crocodiles. On the way out
ne had dinner at the camp of an old timber-getter,
the champion liar of tne Anglo-Saxon race. “You
knew my selection, don't you?” said the selector,
and the old man replied, “I does.” “I hear
there are crocodiles In the creek, and intend to
build on piles 10ft. high.” “God bless yer, sir,
that won’t save yer I You dunno them ere croco-
diles as I know ’em. I knowed a cove as built a
’ouse on the Daintree, 15ft. off the ground, with
two rooms and a v’randa. He sleptmone room,
and two Chinamen in the other. One night a 30ft.
crocodile came up from the river, put a 30ft.
ladder against the window, and clitnDed up into
the CbiLamen’s room. When the settler went into
that room in the mornin’ the crocodile was fast
aslepp with both Chinamen in his innards.”
“Great Heavens! And are there crocodiles of
that species on my selection?” “I reckon there
ain’t no less than 500 in that creek!” “ And have
you ever seen any savages on my selection ?” said
the aristocrat, who was fast filling up about
pioneer life in the North. The old man looked up
at the roof, and gave an expressive whistle.
Poising the leg of a boiled scrub hen on his fork,
he replied as l olio ws: “I ain’t the man, sir, as ud
like to scare any chap off his selection, but I feel
bound to tell yer the truth aforehand. I was
camped once on that creek. There were 10 o’ us,
all with rifles and revolvers, and plenty ammyni-
ahun. The niggers came on us by moonlight and
fought up to dinner lime next day. We fired a
thousand rounds and reckoned there weren’t no
less than 300 myalls wiped out. The crocodiles ate
them all and saved us a lot o’ buryin’.” And the
old man coughed and called through the window to
the black boy, “Snowball, put the bridle on old
Antichrist, and run them bullocks up I” And the
aristocrat went back to town and advertised for a
bailiff to go down and fulfil the residence clause
on that selection.
# * *
I have to report a case of glaring sacrilege
at Cairns. The Church of England clergyman there
is a Mr. G. R. F. Nobbs. It is a terrible auto-
graph to be launched out with on the shoreless
universe, but he struggles nobly under the afflic-
tion. One night he invited a lew friends to spend
the evening, and had arranged a little surprise in
the shape of an oyster supper. The Chinese
oysterman opened them at the back door, and
Btood them on large plates on the kitchen table.
There were 40 dozen. And when Nobbs thought
the time had come to announce the banquet-to
call the visitors to the “feast of shells”—he said,
“ Dear brothers and sisters in Christ,—As God
gave you all an appetite for oysters, I have
ordered4o dozen to appease that appetite; come
with me and enjoy them, and we will return
thanks!” But lo! and behold! when Nobbs
skipped cheerfully out for the oysters, they were
gone! It appears that three young men, promi-
nent citizens, I grieve to say, being temporarily
possessed by devils, and hearing of the contem-
plated feast, arrived on the scene just as the
Chinaman left, and feloniously and diabolically
annexed the whole 40 dozen. And shameful insult
was added to gross injury by sending 10 dozen to
the Catholic oriest—a “jaymi” son of the first
“girnof the say,” who, believing ihem to come
from some devout son of tne Church, ate them
with great relish, aad went to sleep with pleasant
dreams. No painter could have caught the ex-
pression on the face of Nobbs when ho found his
oysters had emigrated—
“ In voice and gesture savage nature spoke,
And from his eye the gladiator broke.”
Christianity was not equal to preserve serenity
and award forgiveness for such an outrage. In
the first impulse of that terrible moment he
breathed a fervent prayer that the miscreants who
stole those oysters should be carted straight off to
Sheol without dying. He reported the sacrilege
to the police, and it is said the unregenerate
Hibernian sergeant sent up a mad shout of
laughter that burst the local welkin. And it
causes me grevious pain to have to admit that the
smile was universal among the population. Such
is the effect of the Northern climate on the godless
anti lawless Queensland democracy. The act was,
of course, indignantly denounced by the truly re-
ligious members of the Church, bur. those who de-
nounced it the most earnestly of all were the
three men who stole the oysters.
* * *
They were two young men acquiring colo-
nial experience, and were trying ro persuade a
robust yearling calf to move along a narrow crush
pen into the jam, so as to tatoo his north-west
corner with the brand. They were knowing
young men. as most amateur bushmen are, and
nobody could teach them anything on any subject.
Bo they slipped a pole across behind the youthful
bovine, and each one stood behind it and pushed
forward with his tummy. And while in this atti-
tude another yearling came down the pen sud-
denly, with the rush of a sirocco, and struck the
pole plumb centre with his ample chest 1 Then the
highly-connected young bushmen started across
the yard in a series of handsprings, fiip-flaps, and
upstarts that would have turned the best circus
acrobat green with envy. As the stockmen gently
lifted them up out of what a Scotchman would
call "anawfu’ heap o’ sharn,” the wisest of the
two was heard to feebly utter, “ I always was led
to believe there were no earthquakes in Queens-
land! ”
THE LAY OF THE LAST LOAFER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I gently breathe the “ Bonny Hills,”
“ The Las 3 o’ Gowrie ’’ introduce,
The wily Scot my pewter fills—
I’ve cut the tight-drawn purse strings loose.
The sons of France I can beguile
With martial strains of bygone days,
I bitterly Bismarck revile
And then strike up the “Marseillaise.”
I swear my Irish feelings gush
For France and her bright lilies fair,
Nor doth my cheek betray a blush,
Save what the brandy’s painted there.
OO long I’ve been the willing tool
Of each selector and small farmer
I now play tunes instead of fool—
Oh, list to Shaugheraun the Charmer;
And with my merry hit of stick
I blow (not Tony Trollope’s blowing),
But strains that all creation lick
From out my trusty flute are flowiDg.
A Cosmopolitan am I
Of melody for every race,
And patriot airs I can supply—
A tune for every time and place.
When Erin’s exiled sons I meet
I know the strain to catch their ear—
’Tis poor Burke’s dream, played low and sweet,
The Harp that once to Tara dear.
If these tunes fail to pave the way
Unto tbe nearest public bar,
Whose lamp casts forth its cheery ray,
The sodden loafer's guiding star,
“ The Wearing of the Green *’ I'll try
And follow up with “Molly Bawn,”
And then “ No Irish Need ADply ”
Tf they don’t boose the Shaugheraun.
To honest John Bull, staunch and true,
I’ll give the dose that he most craves—
“ God Save the Queen,” “ Red, White, and Blue,”
And “Britons Never Bhati be Slaves;”
But, ob, the triumph of my art
Is canny Saunders to bewitch,
And pierce his adamantine heart,
And screw him up to shouting pitch,
I sail as well on t’other tack,
With Germans 1 am hand in hand,
The Standard-Bearer bears them back
Across the Rhine to Vatherlaud.
They say, “ Old man, you drinks mit me,
I shouts to vet your offside eye,
Oh lager beer we hash some spree
And makes dose swallows downward fly.”
I grasp this honest Stofel’s hand,
Eureka, boys, I have “ Struck Oil,”
Australia is our Vatherland
Where none but brainless serfs need toil.
J. F.
The Warrnambool Independent, speak-
ing of the opposition of Melbourne papers to the
decentralisation movement which is now making
such a stir in Victoria, makes this mordant re-
mark:—“Melbourne journalists are (naturally,
perhaps) jealous of the project to call into life and
beiDg a National party, which means, amongst
other things, spoliation to the city to the extent
of its disproportionate representative power, and
they sneer at it accordingly.” Who will dare to
say that brain-power and biting wit are not
evolved from potatoes after that ?
Next to being a high church parson, with
a committee of unmarried ladies to manage our
coal and blanket department, and report progress
—one at a time—in the vestry, we would elect to
be secretary of a Working Men’s Benefit Society.
The largest of these societies in England, the
“Royal Liver” (no reference to the Queen’s in-
ternal arrangements), has been brought under the
miscrosoope lately. Its benefits are apparent to
the dullest of working men. The two secretaries
draw £5OO a year each, and six committeemen are
remunerated at the rate of £T7 per week. All the
working men get is a weekly call for their little
subscriptions. The correct ticket, nowadays, is to
work working men, then you benefit. We re-
member seeing a gaunt army of poor devils trudg-
ging along to Westminster to present some peti-
tion or another. They were Kentish labourers, if
we remember rightly, aud had been walking some
80 or 90 miles. They hadn’t raised a very large
amount of funds for tbe job on hand, but we re-
member that the secretary of tne movement came
along on a horse, and had enough meat upon his
bones to furnish any 10 of the working men whose
benefit he was toiling tor. And, by tbe way, did
you ever see a prime mover in any working men s
“strike” without a cigar in his mouth? Only
when he was wolflog his four courses. Even the
bookmakers who organised that strike at Hobart
went about with prime havannahs between their
teeth.
The real heir to the Tiehborne estate, Sir
Henry Alfred Doughty Tiehborne, will bo of age
next May. The necessity of defending his pro-
perty against the intrigues of the Wapping and
Wagga butcher entailed upon his trustees the
large expenditure of £130,000, but he will still be a
rich man, for his estates, which are in Hampshire,
Lincolnshire, Dorceatshire, and Buckinghamshire,
represent nearly 13,000 acres, and it is estimated
that, with the Loudon properties, the gross rent-
roll of the young baronet will be £38,000 a year.
The S.A. Minister of Education has been
petitioned to allow Government assistance to
prospect the country for gold, silver, water, and
other minerals. Weil, passing over the debatable
ground afforded by classing water as a mineral,
we will furnish the Minister for Education with a
little information. vt ater, without which man
cannot live, and consequently cannot prospect for
the other minerals, is to be found at intervals
»long the Overland Telegraph line. Gold, silver,
&(!., are not to be found nearer than the M‘Don-
nel Range, which, being within the Northern Ter-
ritory limit, is more directly under the control of
the Resident than of the Government. The
country for hundreds of miles north of the Peake
is chiefly saltnush, and there are no aurileroUS
indications. Water, however, is plentiful at in-
tervals. Fourteen miles out is Archebuckan, a
permanent waterhole on Neal's Creek; 15 miles
further are Gadnaowio Springs; 30 miles west is
Stuart’s waterhole, where the explorer camped
lor some time on his last trip across; seven miles
further is Hookey s Water; and eight miles more,
the Anglepo.le-34 miles from this is Ross’s hole, a
magnificent sheet of water, never having failed.
This is near the junction of the Maeumba and
Alberga Creeks, and for i'o miles further, at inter-
vals along the Stephenson, water is in plentiful
supply; then Dalhousie Springs are reached, and
40 miles further the border line is crossed, and
the Government Resident then exercises his juris-
diction in the Northern Territory. We gained the
above information by going through tbe country,
but we give it to the S.A. Minister freely.
It is not as generally known as it deserves
to be that the (versatile Professor Pearson is the
writer of the literary reviews which appear from
time to time in the Melbourne age. It would
simply be presumptuous praise on our part to say
that the Professor is a clever man and a clear and
acute writer. So we will not! say it. What we
wish to say, however, is that nearly ail of his re-
views 01 any book whatever-—from the Revised
Edition of the Scriptures to tne hlzarreries of
Lewis Carroll—seem to be written with the pur-
pose of letting a cold world know how much
better than the authors themselves the critic could
have done the work if he only chose to spare the
time and take the trouble. In the issue of the
Age of last Saturday there is a review irom his
pen on a volume of essays and sketches by
Thackeray, entitled “ New Workby an Old Hand.'*
As these smaller performances of the great novel-
ist arc but little known to the present generation
—having lain in the shroudy sheets of old maga-
zioes for many years—it might naturally be ex-
pected that the critic would coniine himself to
them as much as possible. But taut would not
suit Professor Pearson. It was neoesiary, in his
opinion, that the reading publicsnouiaknow what
he thinks of Thackeray all round, and, accord-
ingly, alter briefly stating that “the present
volume, consisting chiefly of essays on art, essays
on books, and essays on gastronomy, though two
or three stories have been admitted, seems to
show that the great satirist was on the whole well
counselled in taking the direction he struck into in
his maturer days,” he leaves the book alone and
launcues forth into a general review of all the other
and well-known woiks of the author—a quite
gratuitous proceeding, as whatever required to
be said on this subject was said long ago. Pro-
fessor Pearson does not, on tde whole, though
giving him credit for fintnois of style, think much
of Thackeray. For instance, he eegins his re-
marks by saying- ‘ He (Thackeray) constructed
bis plots badly, and ‘ rung tne changes ’ in all his
stories on three or four stock characters.” Again,
this austere critic observes of poor Thackeray
that “he is for ever like the German who jumped
our chairs and tables that he may (sic) learn to be
lively.” These be hard words, but there are
worse at the conclusion of the article. What do
you think of tnis—readers of Vanity Fair, the
Newcombs, and Pendennts ” surely we must
judge a man by the sum total of tbe impression he
creates, ard say that he was a bad artist if he
massed glaring colours where he meant to exhibit
m-jntal tints. The fact seems to be that the very
intensity whicn made Thackeray strong, made
him also monotonous and one-sided.” There now!
That’s the way to write. But if Thackeray were
living, we should like to see what he would have
to say about Professor Pearson. He would pro-
bably say nothing at all. We nope, however, that
this learned and inoisive oritic will some day give
us a work of his own that will completely justify
his contempt of the works of other men,
The Shepherd’s Diem.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The star of the evening shines bright in the sky,
The gloaming betokens day’s ending is nigh,
And sentinels spring to their posts one by one,
The night watches taking at sec of the sun;
Lights flicker in halls of the mansions aoove,
Where dwell with toe angels the lost ones we love
And meteors flash iortn their pale sudden light, ’
A welcome to Luna, fair queen of the night;
The sceut-laden zephyrs breathe soft 'mid the
trees,
Through the golden-plumed wattles which per.
fume the breeze,
Avid on through the evening they lazily whirl
To the hut whence the smoky wreaths gracefully
curl:
To where, in the doorway, the old shepherd lies,
His thoughts far away neath perhaps brighter
skies.
His pipe droops, and falls from his now careless
lips.
The eollie licks fondly his dry finger tips.
He dreams. Draw the veil; he is young once
again,
The iuture before him, fit end to life’s plain,
Gives promise of noble name Uonestly won,
Ere sets in eternity life’s feeble sun.
He dreams. He has left all the scenes of his hope
And rushed with the crowd witn coy Fortune to’
cope,
To shores of the newly-knowu South he has sped,
Ambition aud hope, love of fame is now dead,
For gold, dull and yellow, uncoined, he delves,
In this sou tb land where freemen erst governed
themselves:
Red-sashed and blue-shirfced, long-booted they
roam,
Each man for himself and some dear one at home;
He toils with the rest at the sluice-box or tub,
Works his way round the diggings to rest at the
hub,
He (lashes his chamois and drinks with the ruck,
In the city ’mid good fellows “ treating ” their
luck,
And laughs, as the Roederer volleys around,
“ Drink up, boys, drink hearty, there’s more
underground."
He dreams. He is now on the Eureka Flat,
And faces and names are to memory pat;
The single-armed traitor who crawled In the
night
To tne camp of the soldiers he has him in sight,
And one “ forty-niner ” had gone to show cause
At that tribune where juries ne’er toy with the
laws:
But muskets are faithless, he misses his mark,
The miners’ betrayer escapes in the dark,
He stands with the few, panic-stricken, dismayed,
And fights as the red coats rush through the
stockade;
The miners, defeated, are scattered and fled,
And Liberty, writhing, mourns Freedom as dead.
It is night; he is down at the “ Charley Napier,”
Mid women and music, and diggers, and beer,
Where Lola flogged one of the White Flat police
The night Mick M‘Carthy shot Ante-up Reece.
The scene changes slowly, at home once again,
He murmurs fond words by the stile in the lane.
They sit in the twilight, she whispers her vow,
She was true enough then—that was then, this is
now.
In his dream he is reading his letter from home;
That long-looked-for letter at last has it come.
He reads of her marriage; his heart turns to lead,
And memory mourns for the love that is dead.
With a curse on her falsehood he dashes to earth
The letter, and plunges ’mid folly and mirth;
In the howl drowns his thoughts of the love that
is gone,
Of hopes which are blighted and days that are
done
(For drink can drown sorrow, and hope ’twill re-
new;
Fair woman is faithless, dark brandy is true).
Now swiftly before him Old Time spina the glass,
In review the events of his later life pass,
The days of the “ fifties,” the good times have
flown,
He has drifted and fallen, a vagabond grown,
Facilis decensus, he sinks fast from the height.
And sleeps here the ragged old shepherd to-night.
The stars in the azure are fading away,
The call of the jaybird announces the day.
The sunbeams are tinting the far western hill—
’Ti3 daylight, the shepherd is slumbering still;
The sheep are yet yarded, the hurdles are drawn,
The collie uneasily barks in the dawn,
His brown eyes turn wistfully oft to the door,
To the master who ne’er slept as soundlv before;
He hounds to his side, licks his face and his hand.
Then gazes with eyes wnich can scarce under-
stand,
He haras, but his master lifts never bis head,
The collie whines sadly—the shepherd is dead I
M.D.
The Sands of Time, and the Directory of
John Sands, are about equally familiar, or more
so, to Sydney people. We have just seen the last
issue of the Directory. It is about as large as a
Family Bible, and contains nearly as much infor-
mation, and of a considerably more reliable sort.
Some new and valuable suburban maps have been
added to this issue, and these have been copy-
righted, probably from fear lest the Nooze should
use them for leaders. Forty thousand more names
appear in this edition than in the last, and the
book itself is lovely enough outside to occupy a
place beside the morocco album on the ormolu
table of a Pott’s Point peer, or a Bur wood
baronet.
After all, we cannot approach within
eoo-ey of the Burmese in devising ingenious tor-
tures for our criminals. In Burmah they crucify
robbers by stretching them upon strong bamboo
crosses, like grape-vine trellises, and breaking
their legs. Occasionally the wretches are smeared
with honey, and they are then eaten by the ants.
An observant gentleman who was nassing- un the
Irrawaddy in a steamer the other day saw 13 of
these crucified robbers occupying crosses on the
hanks of the river. “ The nearest was a handsome
man, with floe features. He just raised his head
as the steamer came in view—tne last he was ever
to see. I shall hardly ever forget the dying look
of piteous appeal from the handsome old man as
the steamer paddled past his cross. The chief
engineer photographed it.”
A CELEBRATED SURGEON’S EXPERIENCE.
Sand gate, Brisbane, August 9,1885.
Gentlemen,- My wife had a severe attack of
Rheumatism, which flitted from joint to joint, for
more than a week, when a friend (in my absence
from home) recommended St. Jaeob’s Oil, and
after two or three applications according to the
instructions given, she found herself, much to her
surprise and delight, entirely free from pain, and
now always keeps a bottle of the Oil in the house.
I am, sir.
Yours faithfully,
H. T. GIRDLESTONE,
M.R.C.S., Eng., L.A.C., Bond.
We know Hop Bitters are above and beyond all
as a nutritious tonic and curative. Genuine made
by Am. Co. ftead t horoughly through the
Wowe’s Schnapps is a powerful curative
for disease and is very agreeable to the palate.
Obtain Wolfe's.
Mb. D* Couboy Bbownb (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New Boiwh
Wales), Author of the “Miners’ Handy Book,”
"Mining Leaseholders’ Guido,” and “Manual or
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Arbitrator, Adviser,
and Mining Titles Agent, Beresford Chambers,
53 Castlercagh-street, Sydney.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the most popular
tonic and stimulant in the world. Beware of imi-
tations.


ccaeooQ
MARKUS
mar
B OAK’S HEAD STOUT.— This favourite hr was
of Stout selected with great care from tae
uest of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and theref ne
Sffinotbe excelled. To be procured everywhor*.
OATTELL aon Sole Agents.
CHRISTMAS FESTIVAL.
PEAPESand SHAW
invite special attention to their large assortment rf
FANCY ARTICLES, SUITABLE FOR
PRESENTATION.
They comprise almost
EVERY CONCEIVABLE ARTICLE OF LUXURY
PEAPES & SHAW’S
ELEGANT
ARTICLES
for
PRESENTATION.
f Ladies’ Hand Bays, with
and without tittings
The large , t stock of beau-
Itxful Fans in the city
Scent Caskets, Boudoir
Nicnacs
' Card Cases, in silver,
ivory, pearl, and Rus-
| sian leather
, Purses, Memo. Tablets,
j Pocket Books
Cabinet and Carte-de-
I 1 Visite Screens
Photo. Cases, Fhoto.
Frames, Albums
i Pocket Mirrors, Tourists’
I Cases, Writing Cases,
Writing Desks
Fitted Dressing Cases
l and Bags, &c.
PICNIC LUNCHEON BASKETS,
all sizes.
HILDEGARDE,
the new game of cricket for ladies.
PARLOUR, FIELD, and LAWN GAMES,
in great variety.
p BA.PES & SHAW’S
GRAND
ASSORTMENT
Of
Toys and GAMES.
f Lawn Tennis Sets, Cricket
ditto, Croquet ditto,
Ringolette, James the
Janitor, Parlour Skit-
tles, Toys for the little
ones, Solitaires, Ger-
man Tactics.
-{ Mechanical Toys, Horses,
Dogs, Cows, Sheep, Rab-
bits, Monkeys, Rocking
Horses, &e., &c.
Work Baskets, Work
Boxes, Combination
Boxes of Games, Cora-
ls bination Boxes of Toys.
dolls, dolls, dolls, lovely dolls.
fi OY DOLLS, GIRL DOLLS, BABY DOLLS
TALKING DOLLS, CRYING DOLLS,
laughing dolls, sleeping dolls.
JUST OPENED,
the
NEW CAKINGTON SQUARE-SHAPED
PARASOLS.
COME AND SEE THEM.
They are the Fashionable Novelty of the Dayl
224, 326, 328 George-rtreet.
RAW VASELINE.
B
A
Softenlnjr and Preserving Horses’ Hoofs.
As a t 118 Parasites, and prevents their growth.
Vent* father Preservative it is invaluable—pre-
PforJ ,} cracking, and renders it waterproof.
hief*t i ts anti-corrosive qualities, uneqalled as a
» purMUDISD m mo auowusiA uuv
ltee Peira armies * Sold by all Saddlers and btore-
SOLE AGENTS:
„ BLACKBURN & CO.,
** U DESALE SADDLERS’ IRONMONGERS,
" 125 York-ntreet, Sydney.
1
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
i J.RRwt'A lCthE
NEWESTSHAPES:
M. WALLACE,
of evs *y description of
Law , Mercantile and
Stationery.
*o>. aDsrs »«fl laisilnM r«eclT<Hl n?
*At ARr , ri «v«nr m»si.
KOAU ®- u lOKttfl £ST„ iM BYDNBT
Foster’s Bugle Brand.
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
7:”: ”3;:
ﬂéf “
gar»
,_ _\ ¥§E§ri‘ , \
5- igx g;
' .77“ i§fi§j 3%;‘SEA‘ 3‘ ‘
c ‘_-’:_,—“,._ 1.3 A“.~ _l'
51%;; 3%; 4r: -.
K" 3. 2‘ f“%t..\%i 2’. "’ i
32..- .3 * \z?» ' :3
my - :5? a“ -; '1‘“: ..zr-
ig -- :1 ‘Q’W deif‘.‘
. ‘_}’_§:~‘. “1319”“. l.:53
" :2” '- '- .. j"
‘ ‘3=‘ ‘< _§;'=§'
‘ e r5§3 I 3413:?
"' --‘ < a? “is
c .1 I‘M ' 5‘4?
:1 , . o .39;-
53-. I M
$- :7. l:-
;_)‘£ ‘--5_ "
BASS PALS ALB V
The JBJBBT AL3B and STOUT lnthe Market
■OLD BT ALL STORBKBBPBRB AND WINJU
MBRCHANTS.
Wholesale Agents:
W. BalchiUp Johnston & 80.,
Commercial Chambers,
BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
\V'A
sm,
|HE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER.
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY, EASE,
CONVENIENCE, ECONOMY.
BT” THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER saves
labour, stationery, and time, writing much
faster than expert penmen, and condensing matter
to less than one-half the space occupied by pen
writing. Beautiful copies may be taken in the
usual manner in the letter-press. Merchants,
bankers, solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors,
reporters, and all men of business should use the
type-writer, and save much valuable time.
Sold wholesale and retail by the solo agents,
IMRAY and CO.,
85 GSan nce-street.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1888.
INCORPORATED BY ACT or PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital JS3On,OOO
Reserve Eund JE165,00Q
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Jolm Hay, E.C.M.G., Chaim an.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidiey King. M.L.G.
C. Roileston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jm. Seroggie, Bag.
H. B. Cohen, Esq.
G»n*ral Managak:
V. A. A. Wilson.
Sbouktabt:
Hector Allen.
Branches in »Tbw South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Kedfern, Goaford, Nyne? n,
Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonards, and
Newcastle.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 168 Leadenhall-street.
D7RECTORSI
Edward Chapman, Esa
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G
Geo. P. SlMe, Esq.
Geo. H. Alexander, Bsq.
Managbk : Geo. H. Alexander, Hsq,
London Bankers :
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan
cial Agency Business on the moat favourable terms
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo.
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
Christmas Presents.
N
OVELTIES POK GENTLEMEN
IN
PIPES,
CIGAR AND CIGARETTE CASES,
MATCH BOXES,
WALKING STICKS.
A large assortment of CIG ARS, in all size boxes
suitable for Presents. Also, every brand of
TOBACCO.
MAKE YOUR PURCHASES EARLY FOR
CHRISTMAS.
JOHN HO AKE,
TOBACCONIST,
320 & 446 GEORGE STREET,
AND
PALL MALL, HUNTER STREET.
E P P
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COC O'A
D IS,. BOYD,
52 CASTLEREAGH-BTREET, SYDNEY
(Upstairs),
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND BURGERY,
Registered Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours:
10 am. to 4 p.m. Monday, Wednesday;
and Saturday Evenings 7 to 9.
Deformities, Nervous, and Female Diseases r»
Specialty.
Box 120 G.P.O,
. : .}
lid?
3%
#39. 31-
v :14: 22‘7“»3‘721,‘
iak"5§i3. "54*
W4
‘ n|. I‘ . _. J
;'. -'_ , ,"y " {7t9ff‘9’/<'
Lgﬁi‘iﬁi ‘ H"_
-_'L'-. ‘- ' I‘M" .. #—
Barry’s Trioopherous.
Guaranteed to make the
ha rgrow on bald heads, to
eradicate scurf and dan-
druff, and rewove all im-
purities from the scalp. It
positively prevents the hair
from falling out or turning
gray, and in every case
m«kes it thick, soft, glossy,
and abundant.
BARRY'S
FLO Eli) A WATER.
The Original and the Best.
The only perfume in the
world that has received the
endorsement of a Govern-
ment. Put up in three sizes.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
S. Hoffimms and
k UBTBALIAN MUTUAL FIBS SOGJWXY;
Established 1873.
Capital—4loo,ooo with power to increase to 41,000,000
BONU SES—3O per cent, paid annually since 1873.
J® st ®-Head Office*.
First Fire Society established hi tne eoxony on
tlio Mutni.sl principle, giving policy-holders rack
part of their Premiums as a .cash bonus out of
profits every year, . ,
Policy-hc dors are perfectly free by law from
all liability
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment ot re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and fiber.fi settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates
WALTEB 0 fIUBCH, Manage:?.
Head Officea-PITT and KINS STi;?:BT2.
PAINTS
OILS.
&
o
m
Office: 330 Ge»rgje^sta , ®f!f=.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
83ef* N.B. Patterns and Prices sent.
Sulphoiine
Lotton,
THE CURE FOR SKIN DISEASES I
In a few days Eruptions, Pimples,lßlotches entirely
fade away. Beautifully fragrant. Perfectly harm-
less. Cures old-standing Skin Diseases. Astonish-
ing results follow. It removes every kind of
Eruption, Spot, or Blemish, and renders the skin
clear, smooth, supple, and healthy. SulphoUne
Lotion is sold by most Chemists. Bottles, 2a. 9d
each. Made only by J. PEPPER and Co., London
PEPPER'S
QUININE
HEALTH.
STRENGTH.
ENERGY
GREAT BODILY STRENGTH
GREAT NERVE STREN
GREAT MENTAL STRENGTH. ,
GREAT DIGESTIVE STRENGTH ' 1, . t .3.
of PEPPER’B QUININE and IKON TONI(
promotes appetite, dispels languor, deprem
&c.. Is a remedy for Neuralgia, Ghost affections,
and wasting diseases. Bottles, 32 dosos. Sold by
Chemists everywhere. Insist on having Popper’s
Made solely by J. PEPPER and Co., London
Specially suitable for the colonies.
Lockyex’s
BULPHUE
HAIR RESTORER
THE BEST. THE SAFEST. THE CHEAPEST.
Restores the Colour in a few applications.
Large Bottles. Is. 6d. Made'to London.
& mom
TO MIC
. >v
1
//V
$
/
&
P 4
0
.o' rS>'
p- «r
■v
O, <5,0 ,-oP -* x’
;^^V r .v VV
\' .<?>> w
G p l' v^ r oP>'
Messrs. S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Agents.
DR. BRIGHT’S PHOBIC;.;}'
The only Reliable Remedy for Mental ,o r*h •• ■;
Depression, Nervous, Debility, inonplaclty tor
Study, Loss of Unr-TKy Sick Headatb : hvli **,. on.
Female Complaints, Premature Decline, anil la
marvellous medicine for renovatk •; imnaired and
broken-down constitutions. It operates on tin
system without exoitinsr care or tho < ».• .: .non the
individual as to the process. It moveo the i i tig ,
liver, heart, kidney, stomach, and b.teetides, >v th
a harmony, vigour, yet .mlldnei‘9 xu paruklv i in
rnedfcire, and is the most'power iul b. o jriftr
ol’the present day. Sold by all chi mi m
A«enta— S?*m m: Bvj o.
iwi
-jf.' '. w:/
.yam
wrimm
fr-yir.
mi
stats
■A Vi V $J?
■^W^ v '
G
m
im i
CURING Lis r&ceafc visit to .London, carefully
$ selected a large and varied Stock of
FIREARMS,
macufaotiiTot by. the most celebrated 2ngiioa
taskers.
G. B. M. farther desires to apprise his onotomeis
cf the fact that he has been appointed AGENT for
the following Firms.'—JOHN RIGBY « CO., Lon-
don: TKOS. BLAND & 30N„ London; JOSEPH
LANG & SON, London ; CHAB. OSBORNE
CO., London.
G. B. M. ia also AGENT tor the eminent firm
BSTSSY & CO., London.
Game Basra, Gun Casas, Cartridge Belts, &c., and all
kinds of Sportsmen’s Requisites for the field.
All Goods win be Faithfully Guaranteed at
802 S@oroB.sipp Sjftfisajfp
Where Inspection in invited.
fisHHE FRESH FOOD AND ICE COMPANY
JL (Limited),
have Opened a
8.8 AN 0 H DIPO T
AT-
Hy a 28 iiayeS llreaii@p
where they guppiy
Milk, €i'3am a Butter, Coffee, Cocm,
light refreshments,
At this Branch, orders may bo l
by their eartfl.
They Lave also taken
“ KOUMISS/’ so highly
nary complaints.
Fresh Food & fee C
Head Office..
Stables ...
Factory
pa :--2 >jalßo
mis
ififi
Sarbour -street
. I.ivei’pobl-afcreet.
•. * ittegonjf,".
HONESTY
TEE
POL fed
vAf-qs
A)
Ilia of the utmost importance that contents oi
each bottle should be carefully compared, as large
quantities are being imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite should com
pare LORN R HIG i LAND WHISKY with any o
the other brands, when they will tin ■ a di Jerque//
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORN.fi HIGH
LAND WHISKY.
AGENTS,
MASON BROTH-
■ir
.
.
m
LIMITED,
X* tutf l®
Syctao;
Hav« always iu STO 1
to the T&ADB and
SALS BUYERS' QN'OTj
IRONMONGERY, and
fISKBKAT. AttTV
eLASsTcHINA,
AMD
JBAKTHENWA R
WINBB, BRERS* AKfc SPIRITS,
and (rami
BULK MKE.OHAMDISI, '
. ! \jfento for
JOHN WALKER and SOW
Old Hlghlfind Whisky,
J. BOBXNaad 00/2
Oosraao,
Schnapps u .„d ©ener*.
A, MBLVIi aa« sons*
Edinburgh PaJe A*©,
m
* Ing ham
gUPHOI^BIA,
f ”
*W ffm
MW
■ '
CKHA3VF


uv
MA
T £
0*
if
IMP
sOP
s« c
T°
m
WATCHES JEWELRY
Electro-Platt
:& c .
0
v.\£
Q,
BONA-FIDE REDUCTION
539& 341 George S T Sydney
AND AT
14 Bouhke S T , E. Melbourne
-
/
T A
1
FOR GENERAL DEBILITY AND NERVOUSNESS,
FOR INDIGESTION OR EXHAUSTION,
FOR FEVER 3 AND LOSS OF APPETITE,
ALL CONVALESCENTS, DRINK IT I
At all Druggists and Chemists,
drink if
DRINK I tl
DRINK If
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
I
S. FHIT & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“ An ordinary Cup contains more of tha active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.— Lancet.
wf/A
ms
DR O COmiELL,
52 Castiereagh Stress,
SYDUEY, 3ST.S.W.
A REGULAR GRADUATE in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S.W., whose
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all pr i vat e cases, chron i c,
nervous, skin and special diseases,
DR. O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicino
can be sent by post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is frankly stated. Especial attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence,
producing some of the following effects:—Ner-
vousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples on the Face, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of Pleasure in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Pains in the Back, Stunted Development, &c., are
treated with unparalleled success. Cures per-
private. Symptom list free, and medicines sent by post.
, ases, Itching, Burning, Scaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptions
rom whatever cause, promptly cured.
‘-evident thait * physician paying particular attention to a class of cases attains great skill,
tfls in regular practice all over the country knowing this, frequently recommaßsr eiises to
pffice in Australia, where every known appliance is resorted to, and the proved good
.all ages and countries are used. On account of the great number of cases applying, the
kept low—of ten lower than is demanded by others. If you secure the skill, and get a
perfect life c ure, that is the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free. Call on or
DOCTOR J. O CONNELL, •"
52 CastlereagU Street (ground floor), Sydney.
<*ir
«aear
la,© 2sS©lia,"bl@
/ \
i
PROCURABLE ONLY AT TUB
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OS' CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Bucfcbaard Waggons.
WT BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILXdIAM FLEMma, Horchant & Iraportar,
SS & 24 Olmnoe-stveet* Sf&tyer (meat 8 Petty’s Hotels I
3QJBHE J& T B'U TOMSK & V[ O .
'-® (Late William Long),
ear wins and spirit merchant,
654 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
nmnfcrv Owlew welTe orown* *tnwl ion.
MiLILfA WINES)
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX,
CELLARS and BODEGA, |
354 Greorge-street
(Beneath Paling’s.) _
ING & SF'ANSENBERG PIANOS.
ZEITZ LEIPZIG
(Plano Makers to Mu© Imperial 1 Court of Germany).
PRIZE MESAURON-F RAMED OVER-
STRUNG PIANOFORTES.
This high-class Pianoforte combines the Latest
Xmpfcovementß y ith Economy of Price, and can
be had on applies ,tion to the appointed agency,
. G. WEIiLS,
», Hantir Street, Sydney,
from whom may bo had prices and terms to meet
ail demand?,. Also, aH kinds of German makers,
Bards.
sagr THE STANDARD ORGANS,
at very low prices and terms.
G.J. WELLS,
1 Hunter-street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
lE¥
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYHYARO SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLAQH BROTHERS
Copyrighted.
» Copyrighted.
Packets 1«. 6d.
afteb 06F0R6 KO u STAOHS and WHI3KA23. e EF ons m
Boyd's Beard FM.rirdid this, and
taill d-j ■'* or• either bald head or
bare p tee. forces heavy Mous-
tache i fr<y/n% to 4 toceks and never
Jails, young men already
- . - tocar full beards, having used 1 to
3 phtt. No injury , easily applied, certain in effect,
each , 3 for 3 n. &i., post paid, sent under cover, free from observation*
Frank I) outlaw, Agent, Box 7:50. GJ\O., Sydney*N.S. W‘
P. lIEBI,
Wstom the late My. Jambs Gsnms,
TTrLd-ertsulser,
84 HUWTEI& Gs PHIIiMP STBEEm
PUNEBALS NEATLY BXBCUTSD.
Kirby waa in tbe employ of the
Mr. James Ctartis for sixteen (|8) years;
Manager for over ten (10) years.
BLAKE’S IMPROVED
STEAM PUMPS-
h. p. Gregory & go**
17 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR THE ABOV**
snd have in Stock and to anrlva—
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SERVICE PUMPS
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR A CIRCULATING
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING PUMPS
SIND FOR PRICES AND ALL
CATALOGUES FORWARDED FIIB-*'
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
Manufacturer of all kinds of Crated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Wloorine
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at V f
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
ftmvita Exhibition awarded the Only Go/o Medal for Crated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs , Bitters, &c
