

The Bulletin
NEW SERIES
jp JpJj^p
A T .A
f* , *
aave all the pleasure in the world in wishing their friends and patrons in Town and Country,
their supporters in Sydney and its Suburbs, and everyone everywhere, everything that
conduces to and goes to make
Year!
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET ONLY,
'I’XIE 03aTX-TT TT£TXT7"E23iaA.aLi .
In these latitudes. Iho Host Popular Drapers in Australia.
Many a trade, hundreds of industries, and many a calling are invoked to keep
* o e *°ve, for where the Coach is Big the road must needs be Wide. Our syston of business is well known. We leave
of the Manufacturing World unvisited; we buy all goods on the very b st terms, and our selling prices are
OUR ONLY ADORES*:
Anthony Hordern It Sons, Falaoe Emporium,
CLOSE TO THE RAILWAY STATION.
H


ALLAN A. MARSHALL and GO.,
IMPOSTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DPViHe GEAR, Brass & Niokal-platad SHOP FRCKTS,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Siieet Lead, Spelter, &c.
tagr Brass and Bell Founding,. Finishing, Art Metal Work, Oopperamithing, Blacks mi thin*
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-nttmr
of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH-OUT,” “VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, "VACUUM” WAT EH- W AST fc
PRBVENTBES, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fat
Cowk. Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BOH ACCORD WORKS, ©AO Haoquarla Place, fydnay.
rail particulars and price on application
SO'
<3
freshing
Genuine,
Economical
m
Makers to the Queen
m
•::
tm
;■
t
24 O’Connell-street, Sydney,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK DEALERS.
Complete Photographic Outfits, in great variety, from «3. Catalogues post free
THE LATEST WORKS ASiO PUBUCATIOftS Urt PHOTOGRAPHY.
BOLB AGENTS for BAKER’S DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and RAPID in the Market,
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies
CALLAOh
Caterer and Confectioner,
©B4 ceoeeE stheet.
QT WEDDINGS, BALLS, PICNICS, AND PARTIES A SPSCIAHTV
MUSIC SELLEBS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N 8.W.;
Algo, at London, Mayence, Paius, and Brussels.
largest stock in THE COLOHIM»'
STAR & GARTER FAMILY HOTEL
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
a*HlB Hotel ia centrally situated, being.close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramway, Ac
’ fiiinerior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class Wines and Spirit?
e most Comfortable and Commodious Private Bar in the city.
NOTICE
TO OCR CUSTOMERS AND TEE GENERAL PUBLIC.
lj:
|
JN FUTURE, our ESTABLISHMENT 1 will be CLOSED at 2 p.m. on Jj
SATURDAYS, INSTEAD of 10 p.m., as heretofore, in order to jj
OUR EMPLOYEES THE BENEFIT of the
Saturday Half-Holiday f
Thank in? our oustomers for past favours, and trusting that they will suff e r|
10 inconvenienoe by making their purchases previous to 2 p.m. on SATURDAYS' jj
Ladies acl Gentlemen,
Your Obedient Servants,
I
We remain) v
| 1
Hordern Brothers, j
174, 176, 209 and 211 PITT STREET; |
tp
.
A Derang@msQt of fhs U^ 1
THE CAUSE OF DISEASE
STOMACH,
KIDNEYS
—AND—
STSTB^
BH w will be found a bi'isf summary of a Lecture upon the Liver, delivered
the Eli ctrie College of Medicine, by
DE, J. HADDOCK:,
m
The Liver has been known as the great blood-maker and blood-purifier of the Circulation*
its size aDd spongy structure it p ass a most important part in the animal economy, aS
assimiJation and nutrition. Food tafttn in the mouth and acted upon by the digestive organs. ’
stomsch is converted into Glucose and Peptone, and in these forms enters the Portal vein.
the sction of the liver, these substanc-s are converted into a form of sugar and pass out of *
by a large vein, called the Hepatic vein, into the general circulation. he new material now wj t>
sei vest« o purposes, viz ; the maintenance of heat in the body and assisting in the cell growth v
iB *Dr! Vurch'B->n says, “ The composition of bile and its secretion is very complex. It IS jt
being secreted by the liver, and, increasing suddenly before eating, gradually decreases as soon
appetite is rathtied and feeding ceases ” Now, if this most important organ of the body **®
torpid, or the passage of bile interfered with, emaciation and disease ensue. I note eight l **
peculiarities that now occur, and which we all know of
1. Ibe patient complains of a feeling of weight and fullness of the stomach.
Distension of the bowels by wind.
Heartburn.
a feeling of weariness, pains in the limbs and great sleepiness after meals.
A bad taste in the mouth, especially in the morning, and furred tongue.
Constipation, with an occasional attack of diarrhoea.
H( adache in front of head.
Depression of spirits and great melancholy, with lassitude and a disposition to
everything for to-morrow (j
All of iho above symptoms go to chow functional derangement of the liver; and now , o< jSy Pf-
greiif importance of am error made as to the condition of the patient. He should immedi» l a jir K
vide himself with a LIVKU STIMULANT, the most common form of which is a Pill.
perience shows that this, when the Piil is compounded properly, is the readiest mode of lnC 2‘ve»,;
pro meting the action of the Liver, and can be almost always relied on. I have devoted many ■LgF
my life, as many of you now before me know, to compounding a Pill that will act readily -piiir
aticaliy aB a Bilious Remedy. Ido not believe in great purgatives, and therefore have made a *
of which is an active and thorough dose. I have called it
Or. Haddock’s gsew Liver Fill (Sugar C©afod-)
One Fill is a Dose! One Fill is a Dose! One Fill is a Dose!
W
npe 1
F«r all Diseases of the Kidneys, Dr. Haydock’s New Liver Pills are a perfect cure,
will satisfy the most sceptical. >
For Female diseases, Nervous Prostration. Weakness, General Las3itude, Want of APP 81
Sick Headache, Dr. Haydock’s New Liver Pills will be found an Effectual Remedy.
They are universal in their effects, and a cure can almost always he guaranteed.
Each vial contains Twenty Pills—One Pill is a Dose. Prioe Twenty-Five O 0
FOR SALE BY ALL DRUGGISTS.
Every Pillis Suaar Coated If your dru« r «'i* , t does not keep them, wo will mail them free *
dress or receipt of 35 cents. Fivo vials for $lOO. BUY AT ONCE. DO NOT DELAY. -pit
CAUTION.— I To secure the genuine Haydock's Pills, observe that the signature of J •
Agent lor the United States, is wiitten on every dozen packages. Purchase none without y\
As Dr. Haydock’s Liver Pills arc entir< ly different from the 313 kinds now in the market,
tic can have a sample bottle sent him, free o* i receipt of his name and address. _
HAYDOCK & CO., New York, IT* >
Alex. Borthwick. G .
WALLPAPER, PAINT, &c. X
201. O-eorgre-st.,
OFFORD & CO.’S HA>'
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
Next to Koyal Hotel, and at 652 George Street-
A. SHANKS &Sfli I
Horizontal and Vertical Engines and Boilers; Direct-acting Pumps;
Shanks’ celebrated Hoisting Engines, Hand and Steam Cranes and Winches,
Marine Engines and Boilers, Patent Lawn Mowers and Carden Rollers.
STOCKS. UNEQUALLED EXCELLENCE. LOWEST PRICES.
r. c. mw
in pitt-*f OS
gyd»*


THE
BULETIN
Vol 3 —No. 141 -New Series.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 23, 1886.
P kioe—(Ml
The Bishop of Manchester.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 23, 1886.
Tfli translation of Dr. Moorhouse from the
gee of Melbourne to that of Manchester is
an event of more than ordinary importance,
not alone to the members pf his Church, but
to Australians generally. No other clergy-
man was credited with filling so large a
spaoe In the intellectual and religious life of
the oolony. An admirable speaker, a liberal
cburohman, and a ripe scholar, he came to
Melbourne nearly 10 years ago, and quiokly
seoured in the public life of the people a
position in which he had no predecessor.
Not long since he was appointed Chancellor
of the University. The question of appoint-
ing an eoclesiastic to such a post was hotly
contested, it will be remembered. It was
thought a dangerous precedent to establish
in a oountry possessing no State Church—a
country in which all religions were alike-
In the publio journals and from the plat-
form many men opposed the choice as a
matter of principle. It was considered a
step in the direction of interference by the
priest in educational affairs, an interference
which has boro e suoh questionable fruit in
other countries. It is soaroely necessary to
say that no such result followed, but for this
the University authorities deserve no thanks.
The experiment was, at least, a hazardous
one. When we consider the long and far
from finally-decided struggle to confine the
ecclesiastic to the teaohing of the knowledge
he has acquired concerning the next world,
the opinion gains ground that the less he
interferes with the affairs of this the better
it will be for all parties.
W © 9
By seouring an early passage to England,
Dr. Moobhousb may get a chance of sitting
in the House of Lords, as, although murmurs
against the composition of that august body
are abroad, it is unlikely that, with the
Irish question still unsettled, and others-
almost as important pressing for solution,
Messrs. Chamberlain, Bradlaugh, Labou.
chbre, and their henchmen will be able to
find leisure to bait it for some little time.
Still, it is as well for the Bishop not to
dawdle. There is a dangerous spirit of in-
subordination abroad. Even “ Hodge,” for
whose benefit the Churoh was established, is
beginning to show signs of unrest. This
unreasonable person, having lately seoured
a vote, appears to be now employed deter-
mining the worst possible way in which to
use it. With phenomenal ingratitude he
fails to see why the rector should have
the biggest house in town, or the bishop
the smoothest croquet lawn and sleeves.
"Hodge ” has taken to reading, too* and so,
when suoh facts as the following are placed
before him, it is small wonder that his head
receives an additional scratoh in order that
the lessons they teach may find an en-
trance :
"It Is a melancholy thing,” says Sidney Smith,
to see men clothed in soft raiment, lodged in a
Public palaoe, endowed with a rich portion of
other men’s industry, usiug their influence to
deepen the ignorance and inflame the fury of
their fellow-creatures.”
" In 1807 power was sought by Bill to enable
Magistrates to provide rate-supported schools
wherever they were wanted. The Arohbishop of
Canterbury lifted up his testimony against it, and
it was rejected without a division. * Their lord-
ships would feel,’ he said, * how dangerous it might
he to Innovate in such matters. Their lordships’
Piudence would, no doubt, guard against innova-
tions that might shake the foundations of our
religion.’ ”
"In 1810 shop-lifting to the amount of ss. meant
death. It was proposed to substitute transporta-
tion. The vote was rejeeted by 31 to 11. Not a
bcgle bishop was found in the minority. At the
beginning of the century 223 crimes were punish-
able by death. When Romilly and Holland tried
to reduce .the number, the bishops to a man
'guarded against innovations that might shake the
foundations of religion.’ ”
"Twenty-five bishops voted against allowing
Roman Catholics to sit in Parliament; 23 to keep
Roman Catholic peers out of the Upper House; 20
against the third reading of Catholic emancipation.
For 25 years the Jewish Disabilities Bill was work-
ing its way through the Upper House—the bishops
blocking it at every step. Archbishop Howley
held that ‘ the moral and intellectual capacities of
the Jews disqualified, them for all legislative
duties.’ This, considering that one-half of Christen-
dom worshipped a Jew and the other half a Jewess t
was thoughtful.’’
* * v
We mention these things to show Dr.
Moorhouse that, at the rate things are
goiDg in Ed gland to-day, it would be danger-
PRESIDENT GREVY.
ous to remain away too long from Manches-
ter if he has any desire to record his vote.
But, after all, the chief interest for Austra-
lians in the life and teachings of Dr. Moor-
house during his long sojourn among them
lies in the attitude assumed by him towards
some of the great theological and state ques-
tions of the day. His Liberalism, of which
no ecclesiastical training could entirely
rob him, occasionally brought him perilously
near the rapids that frequently land even
the ablest men in the swamps of heterodoxy.
On the important subjeot of prayer, for in-
stance, his views wore not quite so sound as
many would wish. He had a decided lean-
ing towards the belief that cutting canals
possessed some advantages over praying for
rain—that, for obtaing pure water, con-
structing reservoirs was superior to fasting.
In professing adhesion to these ideas he col-
lided with the opinions of many estimable
Yiotorians—men who from long practice
had discovered the preoise form of suppli-
cation best adapted for arresting thunder
clouds. The controversy on the subject
will be remembered by many, and showed
the extensive insight into the ways of Pro-
vidence possessed by some of our neigh-
bours—especially of the Presbyterian faith.
The bishop, we think, got a little the worst
of the argument, which is scarcely to be won-
dered at, when it is rembered how fre-
quently full waterholes and overflowing
dams have resulted from a combined ap-
peal on empty stomachs. Why the result
has not always been so satisfactory, or why
a flood so often came when only a shower
was asked for, was, probably, due either to
some natural law at present undisoov ered
or to some hitch in the arrangements caus-
ing a garbled message to be sent. In the
matter of miracles, too, the Bishop’s con-
clusions were not always consonant
with established beliefs. We believe
we do him no injustice by stating that
the history of Jonah’s experiences and of
the peouliarites inherent in Sampson’s hair
when suffered to remain undisturbed, were
looked upon by him with vague suspicion—
possibly because in his eyes mere solar
myths closely allied wi( h the records of the
Hubbard family, and the old person who
lived so long in a shoe that all desire to
change her plaoe of residence—at least till
her children were reared—entirely left her.
On one or two occasions Dr. Moorhouse and
the late Marcus Clarke came to blows, and
it was whispered at the time that the good
Bishop was second at the winning post.
* * ♦
We have hinted that there were several
grave theological questions which the Dootor
left carefully alone or touched in such away
as to leave them rather more “mixed” than
they previously were. This, of course, w*s
no fault of his. If it were possible to dispel '
all clouds of unbelief, life would lose some of
its best attractions. To come nearer home,
consider how dull and tame a Sunday after-
noon’s walk through the Sydney Domain
would be if the opinion were universal that
man was merely a piece of mud with the
faoulty of locomotion aud an oddly carved
head? How oppressively monotonous exis-
tence would be if the question of talking
snakes or speaking donkeys were removed:
from the region of doubt and plaoed beyond
ambiguity! There were two matters, how-
ever, in no way connected with Theology, on
whioh the Bishop adopted uncompromising
views, and seized every opportunity for:
expressing them. They were Irrigation and
Imperial Confederation. Regarding the
first, there is now but one opinion. A com-
prehensive scheme for Viotoria is not alone
possible, but would be lucrative. The,
manner in which, by means of water, the
Chinese make deserts into gardens, and the
Saracens made Morocco and Spain the
wonder of medimval travellers, is well-
known. But it is not so easy to dispose of
the question of Imperial Federation with
which the Bishop appears so enamoured.
Suppose we put it like this. Would it to-day
he advantageous to England, or to Amerioa,
or to the world, if the countries had never
separated ? We contend that it is best for
all three that the separation took place. It
s best for England, because if the United
States were still a portion of the British
Empire and federated with the latter there
would now be over 400 Amerioan represen-
tatives, comprising, probably, over 100 of
Irish descent, in the House of Commons.
The centre of the Empire would have
changed from London to Washington, for
either the Americans would insist on its
following the population—thus reducing
England to a province—or, which is much
the same thiog, they would govern from
London, not in accordance with British
ideas, but in consonance with Yankee one/.
And if it be said—“ Yes, but the population
of the United States would not be nearly se
great to-day if it had remained a colony', so
that Britain would still have the predomi-
nance,” no further argument is necessary to
show that America has gained by becoming
free. Again, had America remained
in the Empire, Democracy would not
to-day be nearly so vigorous as it is—would
not have driven a wedge right into the
heart of Europe. The stupid principles of
hereditary government and of high-sound-
ing titles would, probably, still be in full
swing over the vast countries between the
Atlantic and the Pacific. Every way you
look at the subjeot there will be found com-
plications and jealousies ready to spring up
like mushrooms. Of this we may be oerthin.
One of the countries would have to take a
subordinate position, and it would not be
America.
© o «
These arguments against a political bond
between Britain and the United States be-
come even stronger when applied to a simi-
lar tie between Britain and Australia—or,
at least, they will beoome so as time goes
on with its inevitable increase of population.
For America is but a week’s steam from
Europe, while Australia is five or sije. It
might add to the vanity of ooming English
rulers to be also monarchs of a populous
Australia. But what advantage a powerful
Australian Federal Republie, able to defend
her own shores, could derive from dinging
to the skirts of a little island on the other
side of the world quite puzzles us to dis-
cover, and we cannot say that Dr. Moor-
house’s explanation put the matter ig $
clearer light.


Bradlaugh's Triumph.
The attempt of the House of Commons to con-
stitute itself a club with power to set aside the
verdict of a constituency and exclude a member,
duly elected and legally qualified, has failed, as it
deserved to fall. Charles Bradlaugh was
chosen member for Northampton on April 2,1880,
and for nearly six years, while the faot of his
membership has been admitted, he has been pre-
vented by the vote of a majority of his fellow-
members from performing the duties attaching to
his position. The Tory effort to bar the way to the
newly-assembled House has proved a dreary fiasco,
and Charles Bradlaugh, sitting, speaking, and
voting therein, will have the grim satisfaction oi
seeing some of his most bigoted and ruthless
opponents—men like Newdegate, Drummond
Wolke, Warton, and O’Donnell— gazing wist-
fully from the strangers’ gallery at the seats
which happily know them no more. Mr. Brad-
Laugh deserves the triumph he has won. Almost
unknown when 18 years ago he first appealed tc
the constituency of Northampton which he now
represents, he was thrice rejected, but he has been
four times successful since his first election, and
he goes in this time with over 4800 votes to hlE
credit.
* * *
Now that he has won the day against odds which
at first appeared overwhelming, an effort is being
made to induce people to believe that the porten-
tous struggle was entirely one of his own seeking.
He wanted to be persecuted. Just as some of the
old inquisitors affirmed that the martyr-heretics,
actuated by the Devil, liked to he burned, so the
bigots now insinuate that Bradlaugh courted
these years of unceasiDg trouble and strife. The
Tory sympathisers in our local Press give us an
earnest of the way in which similar sycophants are
clacking the wide world over. The Herald of
January 15 says:—
“Mr. Bradlaugh has himseif to thank for the
troubles which came upon him. He was foolish
enough to parade his Atheism before the members
of the House of Commons, and to express con-
tempt for some of the vital Christian doctrines;
and Jnoa. msmbers resented this display as vulgar
and offensive.”
Later on, in the same day, the Evening News
echoes the cry
“ still, it is but just to remember that Brad-
laugh originally assumed an attitude which
directly and ostentatiously provoked the fierce
opposition with which he was met. The path
which h»s now been administered to him be then
positively declined to subscribe to. and claimed
the right to substitute for that ceremony a simple
affirmation'”
Now either these writers know that what they
state is untrue, in which case they ar8—well, Tory
journalists; or else they are ignorant of the sub-
ject they profess to criticise, in which event it is
simple impudence for them to pose as public in-
structors. A glance at the columns of Hansard,
or at tbe compact evidence given by the Clerk of
the House, Sir Thomas Eeskine May, before the
Select Committee of 1880, would have told them,
if they did not know it already, that Mr. Brad-
laugh never made any reference to his theologi-
cal, or antl-theological views before the members
of the House, and never declined to subscribe to
the oath. He believed that he had the same
right to a choice—oath or affirmation—as he
had when he gave evidence in a court of
justice. Eminent lawyers like the Attorney-
General and Solicitor-General of Mr. Gladstone’s
Government, Sir Henry Jackson, Q.C., Mr.
W atkin Williams, Q.C., and Mr. Sergeant
Simon, interpreted the law in a similar fashion.
* * *
As an honourable man, what other steps could
Mr.1 Bradlaugh, well-known as a Secularist
leader, have taken than the one adopted by him ?
With choice, as he and others supposed, of oath or
affirmation, what could he do but ask to be
allowed to affirm, mentioning at the same time
the statutes which, he presumed, justified the
House in granting his request? This was
all he did. Had he done less, — had he
quietly taken the oath — the very men who
now charge him with courting his prolonged
persecution would have assailed him as a sneak
and a hypocrite, who had the courage of his
opinions on the stump, but was so awed by the
majesty of Parliament that he dared not even ask
to affirm when affirmation lay ready to his hand.
He has acted consistently with his opinions
throughout, affirming when the right to affirm was
granted him, and going through the, to him, idle
ceremony of oath-taking, when a foolish law—
whioh will ere long be repealed—thrust the cere-
mony upon him. He has not “paraded his
Atheism ” before the House. He has never
«declined to subsoribe to the oath.” He
has always declared that if he took the oath
it would be binding on his, honour and conscience
the same as an affirmation. His sole offence lay In
the honesty which impelled him to avow his pre-
ference for affirmation rather than oath, if the law
permitted him suoh option. Those who perse-
cuted him and promulgated falsehoods regarding
him, until most readers believed them to be true,
profess to be pious and religious people. Brad-
laugh has only had honesty on his side, hut
honesty has once more proved itself a mightier
thing than bigotry.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Bloodless Conflict.
The strike of wharf-labourers and seamen in Mel-
bourne marks a transition stage in the relation of
Capital to Labour. Nearly 3000 Imen have been
directly affected by the dispute, and negotiations
have been prolonged and bitter. But, in spite of
the importance of the points at ißSue, and not-
withstanding the fact that Capital and Labour
have been in direct conflict, no actual punishable
breach of the law has taken place. The letters
from the employers have not been more courteous
than those from the men. Throughout, the con-
test has more resembled a match between two
chess-playerß, than a battle of masters and men.
It is quite true that a threatening letter to Mr.
Bkuce Smith has been published, but it is quite
as likely that this was written by an unknown
friend as by an anonymous foe: neither in tone
or in purpose is it in keeping with any other action
of the men. Aided by generous support from other
organisations, the men, whose only capital is their
brawny arms, have been able to stand quietly by
while their representatives fought their battles, and
although it is impossible as we write to state the
full result, this cannot be other than a substantial
victory for the men. Ten years ago such a contest
could not have been carried on without breaches
of the law and damage to property. Now, the
men, strong in the justice of their cause, and aided
by their batter organisation, can deal with the
capitalist in a spirit of confidence and determina-
tion. The unity of the men has proved that
Labour and Capital are not to one another a 8
Servant and Master, but are co-sharers in the pro-
duct of their union. Practically, the con-
test has been the result of a demand by the men that
they shall be partners in the profits of their toil.
This is but the beginning. The enfranchisement
of Labour is at hand. For centuries the oppressed
slave of Capital, it is now claiming its freedom
and just rights. In vain shall the Church teach
that men should “ be content with that station to
which God has called them.” For ages a pander-
ing hierarchy was able to peranado men that the
labour of their hands was a Gon-given guerdon
to the aristocracy of the land. Men now are too
enlightened to be satisfied with such doctrines,
and as the Church c mtinues to teach them,
it is no wonder that the labouring classes
despise a religious organisation which uses
its influence to keep from them the gift of their
freedom. One feature of the strike is worthy of
special notice. That is the force the men have
acquired by their community of action. Capital
is always banded together; it isonlyiately that
Labour has become so. In future the two factors
must meet on even terms in this respect. Ulti-
mately labour must become master of the position.
Capital without Labour is useless. Labour, on the
contrary, is but so much Capital in the rough. It
always has the power of creating a reserve of
itself, and this reserve is Capital. We congratulate
the men not only on the result of the strike, what-
ever that result may bo, but also on their
moderation, which is, of itself, a guarantee of
future and permanent advancement-.
♦-
Bunkum Banquets.
It is about time that this mutual-soap-and-sawder
complimentary-banquet fraud should be burst up.
The New South Wales Telegraph Department
seems especially corrupted by the disease. First
we h*d the subordinates buttering their [chief—
Cracknell the I ivine (a decent enough fellow in
his way, and clever at his business when he
chooses to work), Dan O Connor in the chair, and
as Postmaster-General showering exaggerated and
fulsome compliments upon an official whose real
capabilities and value he had no opportunity of
ascertaining. Next we have P. B. Walker, the
second in command,' similarly buttered by his
clerks; and now we hear that the Postmaster-
General himself is to have the slush-bucket
emptied over him in the same fashion.
Now, take the Walker banquet as an example.
Here is, in a modified form, what we are told of
the secret history of that " spontaneous ” compli-
ment;—On Friday, the 15th, an elaborate report
was published in the Herald and Daily Tele-
graph of a banquet given by the officers of the
Telegraph Department to Mr. P. B. Walker, as-
sistant superintendent, prior to hia departure for
Europe. The Evening News even went further
than that, and stated that about 100 members of
the Telegraph Department were present. Now,
there were no representatives of the Press present,
and it is a fair inference that the proceedings were
“furnished” to the papers, the Herald and Tele-
graph reports being identical. As these reports
are false, and consequently misleading (conveying
the idea of a spontaneous outburst of love
and admiration for Mr. Walker’s popularity and
genius) they should in some way be contradicted
for the sake of the 100 members of the Department
who did not give Mr. Walxcer a banquet as
described. A short time ago a meeting was con-
vened for the purpose of testing the feeling of the
ollicei’S towards giving Mr. Walker a farewell
banquet, and, as only about six of the officers
attended, any reasonable person would have con-
cluded that the idea was repugnant to the officers
as a body, and consequently the matter should have
dropped. But the crawling elements were not to
be balked, and in order to raise the wind a circu-
lar was sent round to the country stations, asking
them to recognise Mr. Walker's “ able adminis-
tration ” of the Department by subscribing to
a farewell banquet, and the said circular being
duly signed by a high official, and being couched
in terms savouring of cosreion rather than sup-
plication, the desired amount was raised, and a few
“ deadheads ” having been run in, the affair was
the sort of brilliant success depicted in the papers.
There is also an account of an elaborate address
presented to Mr. Walker, with his crest em-
blazoned thereon. Pity it was that the motto,
viz., “ You will get on better by licking than
kicking,” was not pasted on it also, for such was
the kindly advice tendered to a deputation which
waited on a certain telegraph high official to have
some necessary evil remedied.
A “ Promising 1 ” Bishop.
“Nolo episcopari!”— “l am unwilling to le a
Bishop is the glaring tergiversation with which
a bishop begins bis episcopal ordination and gains
the elevation so really desired by him. As ho
begins so he finishes, as per example given by
Bishop Moorhqtjse, Three months ago only we
find him telliDg his Church assembly: “When I
give up the work of the diocese of Melbourne, I
never mean to undertake any other office in the
Church of Christ. If I go home again, as I very
probably shall in a short time, I shall do nothing
but give assistance where it may be needed.”
These be plain words that have but one mean-
ing. If you or we uttered them we should, as
conscientious, honourable beings, feel bound
by them. We now find what these words
are worth when uttered by Bishop Mgorhouse.
Profane people will ask, if ho values his promises
so lightly, what can be thought of his belief in the
truth of his teachings? “All for a handful of
silver he sold us—all for a ribbon to stick in his
coat I” We laugh at Benedict’s lame excuse that
when he “ promised to die a bachelor ho did not
think he would live to be married.” As we laughed
at Benedict, we suppose that we must now laugh
at the Bishop, and, ls Figaro says, “hasten to
laugh in fear that we might otherwise have to
grievr. And now fop a charitable word to finish
with—for charity covers a multitude of sins. The
Bishop may feel that he will he a batter man and
Bishop with a seat among the peers, with the big
Sees of York and Canterbury and London in pros-
pect, and the handsome present pay. Becky
Sharpe, as Thackeray tells us, declared that
Bhe could have been a much better woman on
£3OOO a year.
M. Moncelon, the New Caledonian delegate, sub-
mits to the Vice-President of the Colonial Council
a long paper in reference to the transportation of
reoidivistes to New Caledonia.' After describing
the national advantages of life in New Caledonia,
he insists that the translation of criminals to such
a place is bestowing a premium on crime. In
France there are numberless men of unstained
character walking the streets unable to get work.
Government will not undertake the expense
of shipping these to the distant El Dorado.
Why not? M. Moncelon asks. We repeat,
why not ? These honest men will be kept starving
on the streets of Paris, Marseilles, Bordeaux, and
elsewhere until dire necessity drives them into a
breach of law, and all the time Government stands
by, giving them no help to better themselves
while they are honest, but when they lose their
honesty paying their expenses to a beautiful and
fruitful region where work is light and food abun-
dant. This is a new reading of the recidiviste
question, and there is much in it that gives the
political economist cause to consider.
President © revy.
Francois Paul Jules Grevy, whose re-election
to the Presidency of the French Republic has,
within the last few days, been notified by cable,
gram, is now 78 years old, having been born in the
Jura on August 15th, 1807. Educated at the College
of Poiigny, he afterwards engaged in the study of
law and was duly admitted as an advocate. He
played a prominent part in the Revolution of 1830,
and gained considerable fame subsequently by
undertaking the defence of members of the Radi-
cal party who were prosecuted for alleged political
offences. In 1848 he was appointed Commissary of
the Provisional Government in his department,
and was elected to the Assembly at the top of the
poll for his native Jura. His political platform
was then one of independence, and he usually
voted with the extreme Left. On the 17th Febru-
ary, 1871, M. Grdvy was elected President of the
Assembly then sitting at Bordeaux. Although his
tenancy of this position was characterised by much
ability and moderation, he resigned in 1873, still
retaining his seat in the Assembly, to which he
was re-elected thrice subsequently. Upon the
resignation of Marshal M'Mahon in 1879, he was
elected President of the Republic for seven years,
receiving 563 votes as against 99 recorded in favour
of General Cbanzy.
The Broker has been sold for £7O for stud
purposes. Although the sou of Goldsborough has
never fulfilled the promise of his two-year-old
career, he should be dirt cheap at this figure.
The Mattersons did not conclude negotia-
tions for the lease of Williams’ Hotel at Glades-
ville, as rumoured, but we understand they are
about to take up their permanent residence in
Sydney.
Nelson won the Auckland Cup. A great
number of the sailors from H.M.S. Nelson, then in
the port, visited the course and backed him in the
totalisator on the strength of his name, and re-
ceived a £5O dividend. “ What a day they were
having!” Over £35,000 passed through the totali-
sators at the Auckland meeting, £10,428 more than
at the previous Summer meeting.
In England, the Eclipse Stakes of £lO,OOO,
for 1888, failed to fill, but the managers have not
yet given up the race. They have made several
alterations in the conditions, and owners have
now a chance of appropriating the ten thou, for a
£5 note. Even on these terms, however, difficulty
will be experienced in raising the necessary 300
entries, as most of the extensive public breeding
studs have been broken up.
We are likely next year to have J. L. Sul-
livan, the American champion “knocker out,”
over here, he having signed a contract at Pitts-
burg with John Cannon, of New York city, under
whose management he agrees to make a tour of
Europe and Australia. He agrees to meet any
man who may be brought against him at any time,
under any circumstances, with or without gloves,
or under any rules. Sullivan will, no doubt, make
a pile in Australia at the “Hippodrome ” business,
but we have nothing over here to meet him with
any chance of success in a genuine match. Should
a goed middleweight accompany the show, how-
ever, colonials may have a chance of seeing a bit
of genuine sport.
Writes “Peter the Hermit,” in the Well-
ington (N.Z.) Evening Press “ One of the most
vulgar things I ever saw done, I think, was at a
table d'hote in Switzerland, where a large company
of all nations were about to breakfast. There was
only one clergyman present, a French Catholic
priest, who, with a quiet glance round the table,
rose and said a simple grace—merely a few words
of thanksgiving for food and of supplication for
divine blessing. It was a grace that aDy child
might have lisped over its bread and milk. But
there arose an English woman, a lady, alas, by
social station, who. having been reared in the
strictest sect of the Pharisees, did not consider a
Catholic priest’s grace a grace at all. She accord-
ingly delivered a long grace of her own, to the
profound edification apparently of three
daughters, who looked too pretty to be humbugs,
a solemn governess, and a priggish young man
who, I fancy, was destined for holy orders and
had matrimonial designs on one of the girls. I
was equally amused and pleased to sse the poor
old priest, who had already sat down and opened
his serviette, at once rise to his feet and remain in
an attitude of prayer until the silly woman had
finished, when he bowed his head and said ‘Amen,’
The foreigners at table affected polite indifference
at this novel demonstration of the proverbial
eccentricity—and snobbishness—of the ‘ mad Eng-
lish’; but several of them asked me afterwards
what it meant, and I confess I wss only able to
eay that it wag a piece of unpardonable rudeness.”
THB BATHS 01 SOBSOBXOTIOK to THB BULLBTIN
are—For one year, 24a.; half-year, 12s. 8d«;
Quarter, 6s. 6d.~In advance,
I Ha Advertising Rates are 5s. per inch i
special positions in the paper 7s. 6dL. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertionsr
16 per cent.: For 62 consecutive insertions, 26 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
b® made payable to ~W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under Jtl, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
AMUSEMENT
FOR OLD
AND YOUNG
On receipt of the advertised price, any of the
following Tricks will be sent by return post
THE DISAPPEARING CARD BOX.-A card
placed in the box instantly vanishes, and the box
is shown quite empty. Price Is., post free Is. fid.
THE MAGIC CORK BOX.-A capital multipli-
cation trick. Three oorks are placed in the box,
which is seen by the audience to be quite empty.
The lid is placed on, and when removed there are
found six oorks within. Price Is., post free Is. 6d
THE WIZARD OP THE NORTH’S CHANGING
CARDS.—These cards change instantly to other
cards, whilst held in the hand, in a most surprising
manner. Price Is., post free Is. 2d.
THE GREAT HAT AND DIE TRICK. A solid
die passes completely through the top of a gentle-
man’s hat and is found inside. Price Is. 6a., .post
free 2s.
THE MARVEL CIGAR CASE.—-The case is
shown crammed full of fine cigars, which Instantly
vanish. Excellent triok. Beautifully made in
leather. Price 2s. 6d., post free 3s.
THE MAGIC SNUFF BOX.-A most excellent
triok. No opening can be discovered anywhere.
It looks just like a solid piece of wood, and no
person can possibly open it but the owner. Price
25., post free 2s. 6d.
THE MAGICIAN’S PACK OP FORCING
CARDS.—No conjuror with card trioks can pro-
perly perform without them. The most astound-
ing tricks can be performed with them. Very
superior cards, 2s. 6d„ post free 3s.
DEMON HANDKERCHlEF.—lndispensable to
every conjuror. Watches, rings, coins, and any
articles placed under this handkerchief, instautly
disappear, although the handkerchief is thoroughly
shaken and shown to the audience each time.
Price 2s. 6d., post free 3s.
THE MAGNETIC PACK OP FLYING CARDS.
—Can be made to run up and down the arm or
body, and elongated in the air two or three feet
apart in the most beautiful regularity without one
of them falling. Very astounding. Price 2s. 6d.,
post free 3s.
THE MAGIC DIE AND HANDKERCHIEF.-
A solid wooden die is placed under the handker-
chief, and felt to be there by the audience, one of
whom may be allowed to hold it. The performer
exclaims, “ Presto I gone 1 ” and instantly takes
the handkerchief and shakes it to show the die has
vanished, and exhibits it thoroughly, whilst the
die itself is found inside a canister or any other
article. Price 2s. 6d., post free 3s. 6d.
THE WONDERFUL JAPANESE DRAWER
BOX.—The performer sends round a prettyUßtie
box to the company, which they fill with i mgs,
gloves, coins, &c. Directly the performer takas
it in his hands, without removing it from sight,
the articles instantly vanish, and the drawer is
shown empty. Price Is. 6d., post free 2s.
THE MAGIC DISSOLVING PACK OF CARDS.
—A pack of playing cards are shown to the au-
dience and then placed into a case just large
enowph to hold them. One of the audience instantly
after this is done, opens the case, and finds it full
of sweets, and the cards vanished. Prioe Is. fid.,
post free 2s.
THE MYSTERIOUS CANDLE AND BE-
WITCHED HANDKERCHIEF.—The performer
brings forward a candle out of a tight-fitting case
and lights it. He then borrows a lady’s handker-
chief, burns it to ashes in the candle, and plaoes
the ashes and eandle in the case again. The lady
is then called on to open the case, which is handed
to her. She does so, and finds her handkerohief
restored therein but the oand e entirely gone.
Very excellent triok. Price 2s. 6d., post free 3s.
N.S.W. stamps taken at par, otnei colonies add
Id. to each Is.
Address all communications:
AUSTRALIAN MA6ICAL DEPOT
BOX 641 G.P.O. 401 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
Between King and Marxot Streets, opposite the
Royal Hotel, and no other address.
a W. ROBERTS
Single Settle Department..
KRUG'S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Laigre Bottle, only 9s.
Small Bottle, , ;te.6A
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
Prom Two Shminsrs pa? Bottle,
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS*.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. fid. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
*B. p@r Bettis
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN-IN FLASKS,
Is* 9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henkes Prise Medal Brand,
in atone bottles and square bottles,
largkbst sins,
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MBLLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
0. W. ROBERTS
Iflsrgs anil Harkat Streets,


TOi.hoD of Ballarat has presented a
The Bism f f(jr the uBe of the clergy in his
form p h„ offered up on the occasion of elec-
diocew W tors. The concluding paragraph of
tion iiHnn 1 sks that religion and virtue, peace
the petition ® truth and JuBtlcei may be catalo-
ged WPPi° e n 8 5' the people by the efforts of a
lished amouK representation in Parliament,
udioiously c “ 0 8 B tlo n the efflcac y c f prayer, but is
we jn this case ? Half the members of the
The Wharf-Labourers’ Strike.
LABOUR (to Capital): " ORDERLY? OF COURSE. SINCE THESE SHACKLES WERE KNOCKED OFF, WE CAN MOVE AS STEADILY AS YOURSELVES.”
or Parliament are parsons, lay preachers,
ar,d r6 | Jfhders. and the balance lawyers. Virtue
and n„Q, m propagated by the former section,
legal and happiness, and the etceteras by the
y * They do not trust much to prayers
torate n„ vaa ® iD sr The parsons stump the elec-
old (V) a house to house canvass, kiss ail the
Futtih«Z oB J en and habits in the district, and so
T?u elves right with the heads of families.
fitenriiuv 0 Bud and Davies were returned for
“nlle, Henry Bell for Ballarat there was
more osculatory, than devotional, exercise in-
dulged in, and more promises than prayers offered.
Even the holy and right reverend Samuel cannot
place much confidence in legislators who, in spite
of prayer, are returned on kisses. The Lord never
interferes with Victorian legislation. The Oppo-
sition always has a big say over there.
A reporter of the Melbourne Herald in-
terviewed a captain of one of the intercolonial
steamers, the other day, with a view of obtaining
his honest and unbiassed opinion about the wharf
labourers’ and seamen’s strike. The captain in-
formed him that the strikers had no chance of
victory—and did not deserve it. The shipovrrers
would not give in, he said—they could afford to
lay by. Then he added—whether in a spiiifc of
grim humour or not it is bard to say, seeing he
belongs to a class of men who are not proverbial
for brilliancy of wit—this curious remark: “I
know some of the prosperous members of com-
panies who wo go in foe a spell without feeling it
in the slightest—men rolling in money; men who
simply now invest their capital in this way purely
to afford wages to a crowd of labouring men, and
prevent themselves from getting the gout."
Sweet Mosesl Tsn’t this delicious? The dear,
good, soft-hearted philanthropists! They in-
vest their capital “purely to afford wages to a
crowd of labouring men.” They never look for
profits—not they. They find sufficient joy in
knowing that they are laying up treasures where
the moth does not eat nor the rust corrupt. It is
passing strange, however, that with all this large-
heartedness—all this pious and noble generosity—
they should prefer to let their ships rot in the
water and risk plunging whole communities into
poverty rather than give—though they are “roll-
ing in money these same labouring men whom
thev are so tenderly fond of another threepence
an hour. The captain who gave his views to the
Herald man is, no doubt, a first-class hand
at nautical reckoning, but he is on a bad
lee shore with his mental anchors dragging
when he is persuaded into posing as an
authority on problems of Labour and Capital,
because, after making the statement commented
on above, he said, in the next breath, that the
shipowners would not give the increase of wages
asked for by the wharf labourers, because if they
did so they would not leave themselves a sufficient
margin of profit on their contracts. This is a
beautiful corroboration of his previous statement.
It shows the philanthropy of his employers in its
true colours. But, after all, he could hardly he ex-
pected to speak otherwise. He has to live, we
suppose—or presumes he has, which amounts to
the same thing—and is naturally annoyed at this
action of the wharf-labourers and the seamen, fpr
if the ships are laid up no captains will be re-
quired. And then, of course—in his opinion-
chaos.
Time after ail is the one grand test. Wony’E’S
Schhafps has been 35 years before the public.


Personal
Items
The Princess of Wales ■was 41 on Ist Decem-
ber latt.
Labouchere says Queen Yiotoria has aged
muoh during the last jear.
Mr. Francis Abigail, M.L.A., Bydney, has
b ?en gazetted by the moribund Victorian Coalition
Government as a J.P. for Victoria.
We read : “ The returning officer of Cam-
berwell refused to accept Miss Helen Taylor’s
Domination, on the plea that she wasn’t a man.”
A Taylor Is the ninth part of one, at any rate.
Earl Beaconsfield’s silver plate, each
ariio'e with his crest on, is advertised for sale In
the Times, “at half the original cost.” Here’s a
chance for Salmon Wilson and Henniker Heaton.
The Sydney Young Men’s Christian Asso-
ciation advertise that Mr. A. J. Clampett, the
swimming and athletic expert, has resigned, and
is no lor ger connected with their order. The
“ Professor's ” Christianity was, no doubt, a little
too muscular for the good young men.
Peter Donahue, of ’Frisco, has died worth
10 003,000 dollars, and, exespting 10,000 dollars
left to two R.C. orphan asylums, and a few small
bequests to family relatives, has done nothing for
the community in which he has lived for 38 years,
and from which he has accumulated his immense
foitune.
T here are at least 50 persons who are now,
not only in private, but publicly and officially re-
cognised as baronets who have no claim to the
title Baronet Clarke, of Victoria, lately became
a vare of this scandalous fact, and has just gone to
England to see whether he can’t do something in
t be matter.
Fifty thousand
pounds for a “p.r.” in a
tolerably high figure Yec
this sum is to be ex-
pended lu what the direc-
tories cmtract to two
letters as indicating pri-
vate residences. Sir Wil-
li im Clarke, who expends
this sum in building on
the Richmond-road,
facing Fitzroy Gardens,
will have tbe most ex-
penslvely-bui t residence
in Melbourne when this
peml palace is completed.
It will hardly be finished
by the time he returns,
and there are so many
slips between the cup aDd
the lip, tbat this may be
but another instance of
building houses for other
people to 'ive in. It is
no secret tbat Sir William
has been taken “ home ”
to recruit, and that there
was urgent necessity for
tbis step being taken.
Melbourne Punch
speaks *ut pretty plainly
about Victor ia’s probable
Premier, and his charac-
ter. It is said that Ser-
vice’s mantle as leader in
tbe House is to fall upon
Gillies. 1 his worthy is
depicted as wearing the
“ coalition mantle,” and
hugging a volume en-
titled “D n Juan.” Ser-
v f ce and Berry are shown
as giving him a “warn-
ing ” in the style in which
the witches cautioned
Macbeth They are bid-
iog him “ beware of By-
ronic weaknesses.” when
it is considered how se-
verely tbey have both
suffered for yielding to
such-like themselves,
their words of warning
have double meaning.
Tbe charac-
ter of Duncan Gillies has
long been known, and it
was only at the end of
last session that Mr. Bent
had to tell him tbat he
shouldn't let “ a daughter
of his be seen on same
side ef the street with
him.” Pity that Victoria
cmnot get men of blame-
less lives to pull off its
premierßhips.
A story is told of Mr. Spurgeon, whioh, if
not strictly true, is at ail events characteristic.
He has lately turned vegetarian, and at a sump-
tuous lunch given in his honour, was invited to say
“ grace.” Casting a rapid glance over the pro-
fusely-spread table, he piously ejaoulated—“Lord,
we thank Thee that we do not often get such a
meal as this, else we should be ill.”
The executioner of Louis Riel was a man
named Henderson, who was a captive of Riel’s In
1870. Lord Braxfleld once sentenced an old crony
of his, who used to beat him at chess, to death for
horse-stealing, and as the condemned man left the
dock Lord Braxfleld slily said to him, “A’ve
checkmated ye noo.” We hope Henderson was
less exultant than the Scotch judge.
A pathetic incident occurred the other day
In connection with the death of Stewart, the lion-
tamer, at Paris. Stewart was in possession of an
old and favourite lion, whish was In the habit of
living with him in his room, instead of being con-
fined with the other beasts. The animal was dis-
covered stretched lifeless across the dead body of
his master, and as he was otherwise in a perfectly
healthy condition, it is supposed that he died
through sheer grief.
“Rumoured that Lord Carington has pur-
chased Tempo, the winner of Tatt.’s Cup.”—One
paper. “Rumour says that Lady Carington has
purchased Tempe, the recent property of Mr.
LoDg.”— Another paper. “Mr. W. A. LoDg gal-
lantly presented Tempe, the winner of Tatter-
sail’s Cup, to Lady (the Hon.) Carington at the
same time that her iadyship presented him with
the Club cup.’’—Yet another paper. O Tempe,
O temp ora, O Moses!
Soft-hearted (we were just on the point
of making it “ headed ”) old Rowland got tired of
running a newspaper in Bundaberg (Q.). Money
was c imtng in so fast that he was unable to count
it. He went away in search of lighter pay. After
travelling the world over, he returned to Bunda-
berg the other day- But he says he won’t run a
?aper any more He will run a chemist’s shop,
s j't that ao ingenious way of having vengeance
on too Mad subscribers?
Melbourne society has been robbed of one
ot it joys. Lord Castlerosse, aide-de-aamp to his
Excellency the Governor, sailed for Yurrup two
or thre j weeks back. He wasn’t a very go-ahead
young mm, this brother of Lady Loch’s—but he
wm ft lord. The departure of any fellov with a
haaola to bis name always leaves a blank In our
llyes. If Bt. Leonards went home weshould
wither awey like a flower that is waiting for the
Tsln~ [Oh, dty up I—Ed. B.]
The Pope has forwarded (through the
German Minister at the Vatican) two copies of a
volume of poetry he has just completed, to the
German Bmperor and Prince Bismarck. Leo has
been far from well lately, and has decided to con-
sult the famous Dutch doctor, Metzger, on the
subject of his ailments, which are believed to be
mainly resultant from the ignominious rejection
of an ode he wrote to the eyebrows of a certain
girl and sent to Alfred Bennett for his editorial
approbation.
From a Hampshire paper:— “Sir Henry
Alfred Doughty Tichborne, who will be of age
next May, will be regarded with some cariosity in
society. The necessity for defending his property
entailed upon his trustees the large expenditure
of £130,000; but he will still be a rich man. His
estates, which are in Hampshire, Lincolnshire,
Dorsetshire, and Buckinghamshire, represent
nearly 13,000 acres, and it Is estimated that with
the London properties the gross rent-roll of the
young baronet will be £38,000 a year.”
The celebrated Miss Ellen Terry has defi-
nitely retired from the Lyceum Theatre company,
and from that popular idol Mr. Henry Irving. She
has contracted what is popularly supposed to be
her fifth marriage, with a Mr. Norman Forbes,
who has also suddenly retired from the company
in consideration of Mr. Irving's having found the
new combination distasteful. Miss Terry’s last
marriage is not theatrically regarded as a romantic
affair, but as one of the preliminary sensations for
a starring tour, which will include America.
The late Victorian Attorney-General—
George Briscoe Kerferd—has just been made a
judge. A yet higher distinction was reserved for
the late South Australian A.G.—Charles Cameron
Kingston. He has just been made co-respondent
in the Watson divorce suit. The Kingston family
has a happy knack of coming prominently before
the public. A brother of Mr. Charles K. got into
trouble a while back for shooting a cabman. He
took a pot shot “just for a lark.” These divorce
court proceedings originate out of some practical
joke, perhaps.
Strange are the freaks of the angels of
death. Last week’s Argus records the death of
the youngest son and youngest daughter of a
lately deceased solicitor of Ballarat. Neither of
them were youthful—the son being 34 and the
daughter 33. The record is that they died about
the same time, the one at Ballarat and the other at
Kilmore. Death never discriminates. Our Bene-
volent Asylums are filled with aged and decayed
humanity, to whom relief from life would come
as pleasantly ss sleep to the weary. To such the
Honours Easay.
LADY OF THE HOUSE (to the poet, in whose honour she is giving the soiree): “YOU MUST CERTAINLY HAVE AN AVERSION TOWARD[?]
WEARING A DRESS-COAT.”
POET: “CERTAINLY NOT, MADAME.”
LADY OF THE HOUSE: “THEN YOU MUST SURELY HAVE SOME REASON FOR COMING THIS EVENING IN AN ORDINARY
HOUSE-COAT.”
POET: “QUITE SO; I LAID A WAGER THAT YOU WOULD BE SO POLITE AS NOT TO REMARK IT.”
boon of a happy release seams always to be denied
or delayed.
Henniker, in thanking the electors for
their vote of (misplaced) confidence, with charac-
teristic modesty said:—“l feel more proud than
my tongue can express for tbis manly repudiation
of this foul insult. It convinces me that while
her sons can wield a sword and her daughters
point the finger of scorn Canterbury will never be
the haunt of the coward and the traitor, but the
home of the brave and the good. (Loud cheers.)”
Curiously enough, Canterbury happens to be a
place which for years and years was disfranchised
on account of its corruption. It also happens to
be the heart of English Anglicanism.
The eccentric Lady Relle, who has just
died in England, was an impetuous and self-willed
old lady—good-bearted and charitable, but tyran-
nical to those who offended her. Oa one occasion
a particularly mild curate suggested to her that
she should have the gas laid on at one of her
ehuroaes, that he might hold evening service
there. “Evening service! ” exclaimed her lady-
ship; “pack of nonsense! Just an excuse for a
parcel of fellows and girls to go to church in the
dark. If you can’t give them as much religion as
they want while it’s daylight, I'll get somebody
eISB.” The mild curate blushed to the roots of his
hair and fled.
Young Lord Cairns is still a giddy moth
fluttering round the sacred lamp of Burlesque
and the virgins who keep it trimmed. He has
been giving a ball in London to some of the very
nicest among the Lotties and the Tottie3. Supper
was served at 4 o’clock in the morning, and Connie
Gilchrist said grace. It is disquieting to think
that this bad young man is sticking up to Sir
Samuel Wilson's daughter. Can it be that Cairns
is showing the old man round and dragging him
into these wild orgies? We trust not. We
wouldn’t like Sir Samuel to assist at aoy supper
where the lovely Connie said grace. After the
first bottle he’d want to eat Connie.
We read that some opponents of Lord
Salisbury raked up and used against his party in
the recent election a speech of his containing
some nasty remarks about the Jews. Lord Salis-
bury replies that his adversary “ must have been
hard put to it for an argument to have quoted a
speech of mine made nearly 30 years ago. when I
was 38 years of age. I knew nothing of tha Jews
myself in 1858, aad spoke on sec md-hand infor-
mation, which was who ly misleading.” Humph!
When he was 38, Lord S ilisbury was a Press writer
and, therefore, he must have k-own a lot about
ths Jaws. Probably he got his ’‘second-hand”
information from a Jew. When we were 38, we
knew ail about the Jews.
The Sydney Globb says that but for the
kindness of a brother governor (Sir Henry Loch,
we suppose) who financed the little difficulty. Lord
Augustus Loftus, the late Governor of N.S.W,
would not have been able to leave Australia at all,
“ as a determined creditor, scoffing at the privil-
leges of rank, had resolved to.hold him. by a c« re.”
The Globe is wrong in so far that Gussy got help
much nearer home. Several well-known Sydney
men put their hands in their pockets. Tnis, we
may observe, is not irreconcileable with the
prettv-well authenticated story that a leader of the
N.S.W. bar gave it as his professional opinion that
Governor Loftus couldn’t be arrested so long as he
held the Queen’s commission.
Bob Whitworth has written a story in
rhyme, “ The Stockman to his old bay mare.”
Considering that Bob doesn’t know a bay mare
from a black gelding, or a stockman from a she-
oak, he has done well with the tale of a mare.
Two of the concluding lines run thus:—
“ A precious pair of duffers, we are smashed up
from sole to crown. , ,
Fit for nothing else, but. as I believe, to be pole-
axed, and then boiled down.”
Robert, dear old boy, timestained tune-torturer,
put it here—vou believe as we believe, We have
shipped per Keilawarra, this day, a brand new pole-
axe. Any compositor in Melbourne, will give it
impetus enough to cleave your gleaming skull.
Somo year or so ago a St. Kilda Congrega-
tional minister resolved to become a medico. He
would prescribe for the body instead of the soul,
and to that end he states that he attended medical
lectures for two years in Melbourne. He then
got six months’ leave of absence from his pulpit,
and departed for America returning thence with
the diploma of a Philadelphian college creating
him a full blown doctor. Dr. Danne, as he then
styled himself, was sternly refused registration by
the Medical Society of Melbourne, and made some
hubbub about it at the time. It now appears that
he practises upon the quiet. One of his patients
has died, and the coroner considers that Danne,
who attended her, should have called in a “duly
qualified doctor.” It is probable that the reverend
would-be doctor may hear more of it.
Captain Humphreys, a gentleman well
known in Melbourne Press circles, died the other
day. He was considered a fair hand at sketch
writing, and published a volume entitled “Boot
and Saddle,” descriptive of frontier life In South
Africa, where he gained his commission in the
Cape Mounted Rifles. We have met Captain
Humphreys in the street a few times, and on each
occasion he was looking into a shop window. We
mention this fact not because it is of any great
importance, but because it is all we are able to
contribute of our own knowledge to the biography
of the deceased gentleman. So they all died out,
one by one, these men of the pen. We will pro-
bably die ourselves one of these centuries, and—
tbe parson and the Potts Point plutocrats will
dance fandangos over our graves. But till then
they will have to dance for our amusement while
the Devil playa the bagpipes.
When the youthful Earl Dudley pays us a
visit it is to be hopad he won’t go away without
seeing Auntie. Our old friend, Lizzie Munro, pro-
fesses to be sister to the still beautiful Countess of
Dudley, and is naturally anxious to take her dis-
tinguished young nephew to her arms once again.
The Earl will find his maternal aunt much altered
from of yore. Rum has played havoc with tbe
“ caste of Vere de Vere,” and the other day, when
“ Lady ” Munro appeared at tbe Melbourne City
Court, she appeared very dickey. No one to look
at her ladyship in the dock (drunk and dis. as
usual) would imagine that one of her sisters had
married the richest Earl in England. and another
sister had lugged the Prinera of Wales into her
divorce suit. We certainly do hope that young
Dudley will contrive to renew acquaintance with
his alleged aunt. He will then be able to under-
stand how narrow a line divides a proud and
haughty London beauty from a Woolloomooloo
syren. A bottle of rum makes the whole world
kin.
One morning last week four larrikins, one
of them armed with a revolver, tried to stick up
the Hoddle-street (Collingwood, Melb ) branoh of
the Commercial Bank of Australia. Mr. J. W.
Hill, the manager, made a rush for his official
shooting-iron (which, as usual, missed fire twice),
a struggle ensued, and the would-be robbers,
scared at Hill’s resistance, made off. During the
melee Hill fired his revolver at one of his assailants
but missed him, and at that instant Mrs. Ravens-
croft, the bank-caretaker, hearing a noise, came
rushing in at the door, received the ball in her
temple, and was killed on the spot. Which once
more shows how uncertain a shot the average man
is with the revolver. Some day, perhaps, we shall
witness a conflict, at 30 yards distance, between a
somewhat inexperienced highwayman armed to
the teeth with pistols and an able-bodied citizen
who, otherwise unarmed, has at his back a good
heap of road metal. We *»all lay 10 to lon the
road-metal. If you are scuffling with a burglar,
don’t point your Colt at his forehead. Aim at his
. knees and you’ll hit him in the ©ye.
Lieutenant Greely, of the ill-fated Arctic
expedition, has proved to his own satisfaction
that the Garden of Eden was at the North Pole,
If it was really in that slippery region, we need'
not wonder that our first parents fell. We had
always been under tbe impression that the looatlon
of Paradise was out Woolloomooloo way, but wo
won’t anger the ladies of that locality by Baying
why we thought so. Somehow we don’t quite
catch on to this new idea. In such a clime fig-
leaves would form a very imperfect chest-pro-
tector, and a snake be like the legendary demon in
a snow-pit, “ rather out of his element.” We can
only accept the Greelian theory on the supposition
that Eve’s tempter was a seal, and a sealskin
jacket the bribe. This explanation would account
for the power of a sealskin jacket over the female
mind, which is one of the social phenomena of the
present day. If we could make sure of it, and
discover any writing of the period—a scrap of
Adam’s diary or a letter from Eve to one of her
married daughters, preserved like New Zealand
mutton in ice, we might arrive at what we feel
certain was a fact, that the old original Adam was
the first Baron Heton.
Poor Queen Meroedes of Spain—little
Alfonso's first wife-was eruelly libelled by the
Melbourne Herald last week. The unfortunate
girl would rise from her tomb if anyone were to
call her attention to the erudite historical Herald
leader on ‘ A Troubled Future.” It was about
Alfonso’s eldest little daughter. The Herald
man, after diving into the remote past with a
reference to the inevitable Mary Queen of Scots
(what a friend that woman has been to journalism),
goes on to tell us that “little Meroedes, the
daughter of Alfonso's first love, is now Queen of
Spain, with her step mother as Regent.” Ah, a
little knowledge is a dangerous thing. The
Herald man had read somewhere that Alfonso’s
first love was named Meroedes, and he artfully
concluded that the little Princess, bearing the
same name, must be her daughter. As a matter
of fact, young Mercedes is the daughter of
Queen Christina, and hasn’t got a step-mother at
all. It was Christina’s wish that baby should be
christened after her predecessor, in Alfonso’s
affections, in order to please the Spaniards, and
prove that she was net jealous of the “ p >or dear
thing ” who had departed. But we haven’t yet
mentioned the awful imputation conveyed by the
Herald’s misstatement. Pretty Mercedes, that
“first-love,” had been married less than five
months when she died. Spain must be an excep-
tionally fertile country in the eyes of some Mel-
bourne journalists.
The following, from
the Kentish (Canter-
bury, Eog.) Gazette,
will interest many beside
Sydneyites: "Mr. Charles
Lett, who spoke at the
Conservative [Henniker
Heaton’s] meetings on
Wednesday and Thurs-
day evenings, is a well-
known and wealthy colo-
nist, and he is a captain
in the Australian Volun-
teers. He was formerly
adjutant of and trained
the men of one of the
companies whloh, when
In the Soudan, was com-
plimented by Genera 1
Graham. He married a
daughter of Captain
Towns after whom
Townsville, in Queens-
land, is called.” Hen-
niker and Charles both
happen to be people who
“ married ” daughters,
&c. The Gazette goes
on to say:—“Mr. Lett,
who is a fine specimen of
aleolonist— big and beard-
ed-said he had had the
pleasure of knowing Mr.'
Heaton from the time
be landed in Australia in
1868. He had known him
working in the bush, and
had watched him go from
almost the bottommost
to the topmost rung of
the social adder]. During
the whole of his career
Mr. Heaton had done
nothing to entitle any
man to point the flDger
of scoro at him. Mr.
Heaton had, no doubt,
distanoed many competi-
tors in the race for
wealth and honour, and
it was from that source
that all the slanders
ar se. He had no hesita-
tion in saying as an
Australian that every
decent Austialian would
repudiate the miserable
attempt made by the
writer of the circular
[printed elsewhere] to
injure Mr. Heaton in the
estimation of the elec-
tors. (Loud cheers.) ”
Mr. George Harris, of Newstead, Brisbane
(Q.), saw a snake near his house. Bearing in mind
the Scriptural promise, that the heel of man should
bruise the head of the serpent he placed bis foot
on its body. The reptile resented this familiarity
by coiling round George’s leg. A. H. Brown
seized an old sword and cut a few of Mr. Harris
toes off, and the snake, gliding up the side of an
adjacent buildiDg, listened with a highly amused
expression to Brown’s apology as he explained
that he had aimed at the reptile. Mr. Brown was a
visitor at Newstead. He has since gone home, and
Harris wouldn’t step on an old rope bow for board
wages. By the way, George Harris used to be a
leading member of the Legislative Council, and
was reckoned the finest looking merchant in
Queensland. We hope that the loss of his toes
will not injure his countenance. A. H. Brown is
also a M L.C., and a good fellow. But he is no sort
of good as a chiropodist, it seems.
The Brisbane Weekly News guys Sydney -
ites thuswise:—“ The account of the reception of
Lord Carington at Sydney sounds most ridiculous
to Queensland democracy. It is certainly rather a
comical feature to imagine an ex-Premier, a very
tail man, with soectacles and a bald head, having a
contest with the Mayor, who is a powerful, burly
butcher, as to who should be the first to
kiss the vice-regal fist.” Then, after slating the
grovellers to the tune of about 30 lines,
our exchange says of the order of C.M.G»
for which it alleges New South Welshmen have
a great fondness, “not long ago this decora-
tion was bestowed ou a wealthy liquor-seller in
Sydney, who is certainly not distinguished politi-
cally or in any other way except by his money *
And when the C.M.G. came, it was translated as,
‘Corner of Market and George streets.’ That 18
where the whisky mill was I” Whom can they
mean?
Failures often prey too much upon the
minds of the youthful. In after life we get more
callous, and the feelings are dulled if not petrified.
We file our schedules then, instead of committing
suicide. Only lately we met an old shipmate ot
ours who migrated hither 33 years ago. He was
homeward bound, not with a lortune, but again to
seek it. His friends had, he said, set him up in
business three times, and he was going home to
seek such support for the fourth time. Not ot
this sort was young Yuille, who last week blew
out his brains in Melbourne’s Western Market. He
had failed at photography, and for a change tried
highway robbery. Here again he was foiled. None
of those he stuck up had any money worth men-
tioning. The game did not pay. He wrote of his
failures, and then turned against himself the
! Distol he had so uselessly presented at the heads of


» Ha is reported to have well-to-do relatives
ot berB ;Jdi.known name he bore, but did not, like
ofth hnm“wa?d-bound friend, think of troubling
our hom young and—rash. Poor devill He
the®,, stuck up his relatives.
sh ° ~ anunky behaviour of the bank clerk
Tb® B P test of the suburban bank robberies
at *OO the first of them. Seventeen years ago,
jeoallstn thoU ght to plunder the Collingwood
tw° the English, Scottish, and Australian
branchßr e n carried on In a front parlour in
street, Fitzroy. The pistol was presented
George-streew tho H oddle-street affair last
then. hnt there were two clerks behind the bank
wee «t«r One of them, Mr. P. D. Grut, knocked
c0 ,so the weapon with a candlestick, and followed
a9< * e hv knocking down, with the same ignoble
k kpjjfenh the ruffian who presented it. The two
e robbers got both hanged for this abor-
If°a attempt at robbery, but the criminal law does
tlv t e «?n now to banging for such offences. Mrs.
not go now t >s deathi ln thiB i a test bank robbery, is
®Chargeable criminally against anybody. The
Chftrs did not shoot her, and the bank clerk, who
not liable, legally, for her death When afi
are focussed, it will be seen that Mr. Hills
tXfviour eclipses for pluck all previous examples
hank clerks’ doings. Single-handed ha fought
assailants, the leading one of who xi was pre-
* loaded revolver at his head. Single-
StnHrA he captured one and routed the others.
The captured one was handed over for a moment
to a neighbour’s care—who let him escape I
Mr Archibald Forbes, in one of the Lon-
Snn napera, gives a new version of the death of
•“The Prince Imperial.” He alleges that Prince
f mils Napoleon was not shot when he was seen
JfPlet go bis grip of his horse and fall backward,
hnt that the holster band which his right hand
hPid as he strove to spring into the saddle, broke,
and his consequent fall allowed IPs horse to escape,
and left him to the mercy of the Zulus. The
hnliter band, instead of being made, as it should
have been, of solid leather, was a wretched sub-
stance resembling brown paper. “ And so In a
finae ” says Mr. Forbes, “It was not the Zulus
that killed Louis, but the shoddy rascality of a
arm of Woolwicn saddlers.” Mr. Forbes’statement
all in favour of Lieut. Carey, who was howled
nut of the English army by the sycophants and
tnadies of Imperialism, who charged him with
inwardice in deserting the Prince; whereas it is
niain enough that it was simply a case of sauve
mii veut. There are not in England any more
prominent loyalty-crawlers than tiose who con-
tract for army supplies. Possibly some of the
voices loudest in condemnation of Carey—who
has since died a miserable death in India—belonged
to men who had themselves already profited by
the r# scality which caused the death of the Prince.
The latter, anyhow, is much better out of the
wav Had he lived, rivers of blood would again
have flowed In the interests of his selfish dynasty.
A truly touching spectacle was John
Alexander Dowie in the witness-box at the Mei-
bom e City Court, giving evidence against the
tailor who bested him out of £3OO five years ago.
The recollection of the old days when the Dowie
family thought they had a saint in the artful
tailor, but were cruelly disaopointed, seemed
almost too much for the Rev. John’s feelings. It
appears that Dowie pere originally got hold of this
wieked young tailor, and sent him along to son
John in Sydney. It was not for a long while that
the Rev. John had the least notion that his young
friend was a man of property. Ail at once the
saint announced that he had come into
£2lB 000. Unfortunately, the money was all in
London and New York. Then it was that
the Christian charity of Dowie obtruded it-
self. His young friend was in need of the
“ready,” and he—John Alexander—would play
the Good Samaritan and advance him £3OO.
In return John received a promissory note for
£4oo—nothing more. Certainiy, the young man
signed a deed of gift for £21,000, but that was not
for Dowie personally. The £21,000 was a gift to
Dowie’s “ Church,” please understand. However,
as Dowie pathetically explained, “it has never
been paid/’ Neither has the promissory note.
Poor Dowie thought his money and his man had
gone for ever, when one fine evening he ran right
Into the arms of the tailor who “ had ” him five
years ago. And where ? Where should a Christian
pastor tumble against a feliow who had over-
reached him in a money lending transaction?
Why, at a Salvation Harmy “all night with Jesus.”
Hallelujah 1
Australia loses intellectually by the depar-
ture of Bishop Moorhouse to fill the Bee of Man-
chester. Theologically he had his party, and to
his party he was a tower of strength. They were
safe from foes furnished with the ordinary
weapons of Scriptural warfare when they got
themselves well down on their knees behind his
broad back. The only danger to be apprehended
was that after he had beaten off the foes he might
fall backwards and crush his friends to pulp. But
Australia generally knew him and liked him, not
for his theological diversions, but for the elevation
of his intellectual conceptions and the spirit of
generous humaoitarianism his publie conduct
breathed. He was one of tbe few prominent men
in Australia capable of uttering their thoughts in
periods. There was a rich freshness of diction in
his speeches which captivated the mind of
musical build. There were a fervour and
glow in the images he created which kept one
looking as well as listening. He was strong, pas-
sionate, intense, daring in invective, but never
vulgar. We have seen him in the treatment of
his theme come to the edge of that test of intel-
lectual tone, and though his sally was headlong,
he instinctively shot to one side and left the
opponent whom he cou'd not knock down without
butting him with a gutter term, live till another
time. About twelve years ago it was our lot to
listen to Dr. Fraser, the late Bishop of Manchester,
in George's Hall in Liverpool. At that time Dr.
Fraser stood in much the same light to English-
men that Dr. Moorhouse stands in to Australians.
He was liberal almost to the verge of hetero-
doxy. He valued theology only to the extent
that it could be made a lever to lift humanity.
Dr. Fraser was called an orator, but his
oratory was not of as high a class as that of
Dr. Moorhouse. An analysis of the difference
between Lord Derby and Gladstone, or between
Burke and Chatham, would suggest some of the
qualities in which the two classes of oratory differ.
Australia is badly in need of a lot of men like Dr.
Moorhouse, and in that cense it is a pity that he
quits. One thing occurs to us here as a reminis-
cence. The point Dr. Fraser most pertinaciously
insisted on throughout the course of bis episcopal
life, and which indeed was a prominent feature in
his discourse on tha occasion leferred to, was that
the sign manual of the possession of the Christian
Bpirit was the open-handed giving of charity to
the poor, help to the struggling, comfort to the
sad. Bishop Fraser s * ill was opened the other
day and it was found that he had left £84,000 in
cash behind him I
A B.F. paper remarks 41 Tbe death of
Vanderbilt 11., at the age of 64, leaving 180,000,000
dollars all invested in Government and other sate
interest-teariDg bonds, and in centrally located
New York real estate property, suggests a line of
interesting reflections. If Americau laws permit
the foundatioa of a ‘family’ upon the basis of
wealth, the question will naturally present itself,
what is to be the effect growing out of its vast
accumulations a 3 time roll? on, and how will the
fortunes of such families affect the institutions of
the country, and will the result be for good or
evil ? Within the memory of the present genera-
tion Cornelius Vanderbilt, a poor boy,
catcd, ill-clad, and barefoot, rowiDg a boat for
clams on Staten Island, doing odd jjobs, advances
himself by industrious toil tq the ownership of a
ferrv, then to the proprietorship ot a steamboat
and railroads, till he flies, able to leave to one son
40.000,000 of dollars. This son, at 40 years of age,
was toiling on a poor farm from which he grubbed
a hard living, till he was called to his lather’s office
to accept toe inheritance which the hard and
graspiDg parent could not carry over the Styx
to the unknown shore-not even enough to pay
the immortal ferryman the penny which classic
story has fixed upon as his fee tor transportation
of the dead and this man dies at the age ot 64
years, leaving to the eight heirs of his body one
hundred anl eighty rm lo’- s of d dlars. That
father and son led a lit© of hard and oppressive
exactions to the poor whom they employed; that
they were unloved and unlovable within their
own families; that all human sj mpathies had died
out of them; that they died unregretted and left
but beggarly crumbs to oertain narrow charities
that gave evidence of no broad sympathy—it is
not our intention to discuss, nor our purpose to
consider; but whether the two Yauderbilts who
have passed away, and the eight who are left, are
to found a family, which shall go on accumulat-
ing its millions as time moves on, is an interesting
subject for reflection. In the absence of laws of
primogeniture and entail.it was believed that a kind
Providence would send to every family enough of
incompetents, imbeciles, and profligates to distri-
bute the accumulations of their capable ances-
tors; but if the wisdom of the Astora, Vander-
bilts, and other great millionaires can defeat the
operations of law and the providence of God by
carefully devised wills that shall transmit their
accumulations along the family line, it is time for
organised society to consider whether laws should
not be enacted to guard the world against being
eaten up byits financial monsters. We have made
a calculation for the third family of Vanderbilts,
and found that, if it shall b© as capable, as indus-
trious, as provident, as hard and selffish as the
founders of its race, and enough shall escape the
lunatic asylum and the home of the inebriate to
take the bequest, in another 40 years, from a four
per cent, investment, with semi-annually interest
reinvested at the same figure, the family estate
will amount to $877, 788 000. There is one pleasant
outlook, for we may reasonably hope that in 40
years this sum will exceed our national debt,
when a simple act of Congress being passed to
confiscate the Vanderbilt estate will relieve our
country from all financial embarrassments; and.
assuming that the family is not more prolific of
sons and daughters in tne future than it has been
in the past, only 64 unfortunate rich people will
suffer to avoid a great national evil. Napoleon
destroyed old families and provided against the
formation, of new ones by the simple provision of
his code, that when any one died his property
should be equally distributed to his heirs. The
English place a probate tax upon the estates of
deceased persons, which we may improve by ad-
ding an ascending scale of penalties, letting the
poor man through the gateway of death with a
nominal toll, but unloading dead millionaires of
such amounts as we think will be burdensome to
them in climbing the golden ladder, and embarras-
sing for them to explain to Saint Peter that their
millions were honestly come by. We will resume
the consideration of this interesting subject when
A HUMORIST.
BILLY ( breathless ): “OH, GRANNY! YOU KNOW OLD MRS. HIGGINS, AS 13 BLIND, DEAF,
AND SO PARALYTIC THEY CAN’T MOVE HER OFF HER BED?”
GRANNY: “BLESS THE BOY, YES.”
BILLY (a boy with a keen sense of humour): “WELL! HERE’S A LARK. BLOWED IF HER
HOUSE AIN’T ON FIRE.”
the next soulless millionaire passes in his checks
without remembering in his death those who
aided him in life.”
A N.Z. coroner made a small fortune out
of inquesting a certain corpse. A man was found
drowned in the Shotover River, and an inquest
was duly held on him. After the inquest the body
was buried near the banks of the river, and a
heavy flood sent, it on its journey down the
stream. A second inquest was held, and the same
verdict returned. The body was interred for the
second time, but it was not allowed to remain in
pesoe, as a heavier flood than the first washed it
once more into the river. The coroner wanted to
inquest it once more, but the local medico firmly
stated that he “ had already held two post mortem
examinations upon that body, and wouid not
touch it again.”
“Every conceivable question, whether
trivial or important, is accurately answered by
the Unit ersal Knowledge and Information Office,
street, London, AV.C. Fees, Is. and upwards,
with stamps for reply. This Institution has
access to all the best sources of information in
existence, hence its accuracy can be relied upon.
Write for Prospectus.”—English paper. Hand
down the mandolin :
Write—you bet we’ll write, this minute,
Soon we’ll see how much there’s in it;
Tell us, ere we hire our hearse,
Of Dailey's speeohes, Sladen's verse,
Dibbs’ illogical deduotionp,
Causes of the recent ructions;
Parkes’ little game, we’d know it;
If our debt we’ll pay or owe it.
Will Sir John for iODg be Premier ?
Will the sage wax gay or dreamier ?
Will those members fossilised
By disbandment be surprised ?
Will we e’er ourselves be ruling,
When be done with English schooling ?
AVhen and how with justice equal.
Rich as poor shall find the sequel
Of crime in fair and justest Jaws ?
AVhen shall our land own Freemen’s cause ?
When—oh lin fact—when various things,
When half our sages shall take wings,
And to the shining golden shore
Pass from this earth for evermore,
And leave our rule to younger people,
Who never saw at. Paul s old steepie.
THIS WICKED WORLD.
Hares are becoming a great nuisance at
Bega, N.S.AV. Want of hairs is our great nuisance.
We are as srdooth as a goose-egg on the roof of
our gorgeous caput The Brisbane Telegraph
publishes a description of the local police-court
cells, and verifies the Courier's report of the in-
tolerable odours and limited space as well as the
duDgeon-like appearance of the cells, but denies
the presence of vermin ia the clothing supplied,
The Telegraph man is evidently one of those
who are thankful for small mercies An Aus-
tralian lady, now in England, was recently compli-
mented upon her refinement and power of adapt-
ing herself to civilised society, and asked if she
was not immensely in advance of all the natives
In this respect. “Well, yes,” she said, “perhaps
I am, but then I have had unusual advantages.
There was an English missionary stationed near
our tribe for more than three months.”—ln
a Southern court, the other day, a Judge interro-
gated a female witness thus: “How old are you,
madam?” “Thirty-two,” was the prompt reply.
“ Nonsense, madam,” said the Judge. “Why you
were that age when you were giving evidence in
this court before, some 10 or 11 years ago.” “ That
may be so, your Honor,” answered the witness,
“ but you see I’m not one of those women who say
one thing to-day and another thing to-morrow.”...
“ Was your case decided by a full bench ?” asked
a sympathizing friend of a disappointed law-
seeker. “I think so,” said the other. "They
must have all been drunk to have made such a
decision.”
* 6) *
It is impossible to publish the novel
Colonel Burnaby of the Guards, killed in the
Soudan, left behind him, because no one has been
able to decipher the manuscript. It has been ex-
atnined by one who knew the author’s hand writing
well, and has been in the hands of a professional
“ decipberiat,” but no more could be made of it
than of the ledger of a Chinese insolvent—At a
Westminister eleotion meeting Mr. Ashmead-Bart-
lett-Burdett-Coutts pleaded for support on ac-
count of his name, when one of the unwashed
yelled out, “ Who gave you that name ? ” The
husband of the Baroness Burdett-Coutts declined
to answer.... Adeiioa Patti is to receive £3009 for
singiog at six concerts for Mr. Ambrose Austin, in
London. It is even better to be a great singer
than to be the son-in-law of a N.S W. Cabinet
Minister Professor Pasteur is neither a surgeon
nor a physician, and, therefore, in order to comply
with the law against outsiders encr sching on the
rights of the faculty, he employs a surgeon to per-
form the operation. He has been aim ost uniform-
ally successful in treating cases of hydrophobia...
A tailor recently left a note beside his dead body,
saying that he had committed suicide. Owing to
the extreme unreliability of tailors, it is believed
by the police that he was either murdered or is
alive... Second Husband (to wife): “Are you as
fond of me as you were of your first husband,
dear ? ” Wife: “ Yes, indeed; and if you were to
die, John, I would be just as fond of my third.
I’m not a woman to marry for anything but’ove.”
The last seven Prime Ministers of Great
Britain Peel, Russell, Derby, Palmerston,
Beaconsfleld, Gladstone, and Salisbury—all meet
on common ground as devoted husbands Sick
man (making his will) to Lawyer: “I have 2C03
pounds insurance on my life, a house, and 10CO
pounds in cash. The insurance money and house
must go to my wife, but I hardly know what dis-
position to make of the cash.” Lawyer: “You
had better leave it to me in trust to sue the in-
surance company with.”..."Have you any kids ? ’>
enquired a young lady ef the new shopman at the
glove-counter. “Not yet,” replied he with a
blush; “ I have only been married three weeks.”
The flavour of cod liver oil may be chaD&ed td
the delightful one of fresh oystefs if the patient
will drink a large glass of water poured from a
vessel in which nails have been allowed to rust—
Some time ago in England the persons employed
in counting bank notes In banks were seized with
a peculiar disease, marked by an unsightly erup-
tion of the scalp, face, and hands. For a long
while this strange malady baffled the physleian
but it has lately been discovered tnat the arsenic
from the bank-notes was imbibed by the clerks
and blood-poisoning was the result... Professcf
Binz finds that coffee is an absolute antidote td
alcohol, if taken in a sufficient quantity. DogS
saturated with caffeine could not be made drunk.
.... He was not a well-washed man. “ Accept his
hand!” said the lady, decisively and epigramma-
tieally, “ accept his hand I Why, I would not even
shake his hand without a previous course of
Turkish baths on his part and a subsequent course
on mine.”,...An American lady, who wrote to
General Sherman for the usual “lock of hair and
autograph,” received the following reply:-”I
regret to state that as my orderly is bald, and As
the man who formerly wrote my autograph? has
been dismissed, I can not comply with your re-
quest.” This was printed by a type-writing
machine and mailed without his signature.
An elderly gentleman is seen to lread on a
piece cf orange-peel and come heavily down, on
wba may be politely called tbe Email of his back.
To him, polite stranger, raising his hat: “ Excuse
me, sir; would you mind doing that again? My
friend didn’t see it.” ‘‘.Can you assure me con-
stant employment?” enquired an industrious
artisan of the N.S.W. emigration agent. And the
advocate of emigration promised, ss they all do,
not a day’s idleness. “ But what is your trade ? ”
he added. •* Undertaker,” was the response. The
agent passed to the next applicant—“Mamma,”
queried a little boy, “is Satan an angel?” “He
is one of tbe fallen angels, dear.” ‘ Well, what
was the trouble with tbe fallen angels? Couldn’t
they make their wings work?”—A wedding
present is the outward and visible sign of the in-
visible joy a girl’s relatives feel at getting her off
their hands.. .At Paris, recentfy, Sara Bernhardt
fainted twice during one performance —At Nor-
wich, England, Goodale—a fifteen-stone man, who
had been sentenced to be hanged—was dec ipfiatect
oy the drop. “ Some men,” coolly remarked the
executioner, “are worse put together than others.”
Young Highcollar: “ Beastly werthaw, this.
Miss Symphony, bai Jove I” Miss Symphony
(tired): “ You ought not to decry the weather, no
matter how bad it may be, Mr. Highcollar. If It
were not for the weather you would be at a los*
for something to taik about. Now take me to
mamma.”. ...The Boston Common Council sent a
delegation to officially mourn at the funeral of
the Vice-President. The liquor bill was SISCO, but
the depth of their sorrow was generally remarked.
....The notorious Cora Pearl is mingl ng with the
world again. She has bought a house in New
Fork and leased a cottage at Long Branch Herr
Krupp has made for the Italian Government four
i2O ton guns. Woolwich must now hurry up with a
bigger gun still, so as to keep to the front in the
march of civilisation Archdeacon Farrar, bv a
course of sermons in New York, has netted £BOO.
Why, Dion Bouoicault netted more than that by
Shaun the Post in Melbourne. If Mr?. Langtry
could only wear tights, sne would rake in bigger
receipts than the moat eloquent preaeher that ever
climbed a pulpit.
To cure all kinds of symptoms use Wolfe's
Schnapps. Be sure you obtain Wolfe’s.
L’be warrior boy on a mash has gone,
On the crowded blook you will find him;
A suit of tweed h 9 has girded on,
And his coat tails hang behind bira.
And he sings as be pacas the crowded street,
while the people crowd to hear him—
■' Those pants which Summerfield sells are neat,
And for price none else come near him ”*
Wolfe’s Schnapps—A medicine for body
and mind—A time honoured preparation.
BEALE & COMPANY
City Show Rooms,
386 and 612 GEORGE STREET,
12 CENTRAL MARKETS,
161 OXFORD STREET
AGENTS and TRAVELLERS in EVERY
COUNTRY TOWN.
Address Letters of Inquiry-
-371 a Pitt-street, Sydney.
THE LATEST TRIUMPH of BEWING MACHINE
MECHANICS,
The “ BEALE ”
HIGH-ARM
PATENT SEWING MACHINES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THB
Wertheim Sewing Hachine,
BEALE.
Tha “ Hapsburg” Pianos.
SOLE IMPORTERS,
SEALE AND GOHPANY.
THE "HAYDN” ORGANS
AND
HARMONIUMS.
Sole Importers
BEALE ANDJCOMPANY.
FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
and
FULL INFORMATION,
Address
ANY LOCAL AGENT OR TRAVELLER}
or,
i-MALE & COMPANY
Sydney.


CORRESPONDENCE
[Correspondents who oive neither name nor nom-de-
plwne cannot expect to have their com-
municatiov a noticed .l
“ Horiell ” (Goulburn): It may be as true
to tact as Loo Heydon to his Protection theories,
but it is not funny for all that—“Veritas”
(Maitland): A colossal libel, without even the
apology of a joke.... “ S.L,”: Not good enough....
*• Musophiles Commonplace verses on a ten-
centuries-old subject —“ W.P.H.: Any book-
seller in Brisbane or Sydney would relieve your
trouble “ J.F.H.”: Very interesting—to Mrs.
H„ of Fisher’s Creek, buc we don’t run The
Bulletin for her “Cuthbert Grim”: Would
be as difficult to work up good pars from
your matter as to make a man out of the
average curate .“ITneas”: Held over—the Are
”C. 0.”: You can’t tell whether a fish is fresh by
looking at its gills. A fortnight ago we saw a stale
schnapper the gills of which had been painted
with cochineal by the artist who carried it about
for sale “A Friend ” (Bourke, N.S.W.): Tbanks.
Appeared in Bulletin years ago.
“Herbert T.” (North Shore) : Thanks
“W.H.S.” (Kyneton, Vic.): Thanks. The idea is
good. Shall hand to artist—“ Peter”: We don’t
think much of your held-over verses, finishing
thus:—
“ I hate the post, I hate the bells,
And money-seeking carol singers:
I’d like to start three extra hells
For postmen, singers, and bellringers.
See what has happened to the Tumbarumba bank
manager who, nurturing such sentiments in his
heated breast, reaches down his revolver and
banged at the joyous populace . Too
long. But as the Queensland Government has just
discharged its Colonial Architect, N.S. W. had b atter
hand over to the Bananaland authorities her
Michael Angelo who is responsible for the Sydney
Post Office carvings “ Censor ” (Paddy's River):
Your letter shows that you don’t understand the
law of libel. If we were to say that a certain
member was always drunk that would be true,
and yet be a libel. If, however, we stated that he
was always sober, that would be no libel, although
as mendacious as the yarns about kangaroo pup
that “got poisoned last summer.” “S.S.”;
Isaiah and sewage, the Bible, and Botany reser-
voirs—what are you driving at ? You claim that
the pollution of the water supply is the fulfilment
of prophecy. Your friends should see that you are
not allowed to go loose without a collar and muzzle.
“ J. 0.” (Carcoar): We entirely disagree with the
first part of your letter. There would be no neces-
sity to direct attention to Sir John Robertson’s
feebleness if he were in a private station, but
when he claims the power of controlling the affairs
of the colony, we consider it a duty to point out
that he is incapable of discharging the duties of
the position.... “A.W.8.”: Thanks. Always glad
of cuttings “ C. Greea ” We know that arson
yarn is true. 986 fellows have sent it in on different
oecaeions. Strangely enough every sender saddles
a different J.P. with the little tale....“ Billy
Yorkey”: Thanks; but for obvious reasons we
cannot deal exhaustively with the matter...
“ Chalinitis”: Yes it was the late Hon. J. G.
Francis who refused a knighthood irom Her Most
Gracious Majesty. He said he could not see where
the honour or distinction was when political non-
entities, charlatans, and time-servers were able to
secure titles and decorations from the Queen.
“Janary” John Davies, C.M.G., M.L.A., J.P., &0.,
was not at that time appointed. Mr. Francis was
not a rabid Tory and Freetrader. He was a Liberal
Conservative and nominal Freetrader. It was he
who first made the step towards the imposition of
protective duties in Victoria, and is regarded by
many as the father of Protection in the Southern
colony. The hon. gentleman was a pretty con-
sistent politician, and a wealthy man. If he had
been a poor man he would probably have been
a staunch advocate of Liberalism in Victoria—
“R. Conway”: It is nearly 30 years since the
famous C. E. Jones sat in the Victorian Parlia-
ment. He was Commissioner of Railways in the
M'Culloch Administration, and proved himself to
be a clever and able administrator. He is certainly
one of the best speakers and lecturers of the colo-
nies. He now runs a little Democratic paper in
Melbourne called the People’s Tbibune. At
last election, he was not lowest on the poll for
Ballarat West. He tied Mr. G. R. Fincham for the
third seat, and the Returning Officer-a party by
the name of Jones, who “bosses” a local bank—
gave his casting vote in favour of Mr. Fincham,
who has to thank his opponent’s rich namesake
for his seat and £3OO a year since. The Argus and
Age, and other quidnuncs, seem to regard it as a
foregone conclusion that Mr. C. E. Jones will be
elected for Ballarat at the approaohing general
election, and when he does enter Parliament
again, he’ll be sure to make things pretty lively
there. Southern senators want roußing up badly...
“ Martin Robertson ”: We will try...“ A Radical
Yes, we noticed it, but owing to pressure of affairs
had to let it pass “F.M.S.”: Thanks. Have
used par “Ignotus”: It would be impossible
for us to do as you suggest. Such a “ correspon-
dence club” could only succeed with a limited
number of members ...“DemocratNorth”: Al-
ways glad to hear from y0u....“A.8.C.”: The
poem you write of is probably irrecoverable. The
mechanical improvement you suggest has given
us much thought, and is stili beiDg pondered
“W. Carlton” (Coffee Palace, Sydney): Your
letter does not establish a single fact, except that
you lack Bense. Were we to publish it an action
for gross defamation would lie against us. We
will hand it to the person you impugn, if do
not withdraw your request for publication.... “Ig-
norance”: We never said that G. A. Lloyd is
Honourable within the limits only of the colony of
N.S.W. We merely pointed out that he is not an
Honourable elsewhere. The distinction and the
q nalifioation were equally the work of the Colonial
Office. No, we don t know on what principles
these things are regulated. Ask John Davies
(C.M.G.), or write to Henniker Heaton, M.P
“MaudS.”: Will read and consider....“ C.H.8.”:
The excursion shall have early attention,...“ J.
Spondulex ” (S.A.): Thanks; next week.
Peall, the English billiardist, has again
been distinguishing himself in the matter of
record-breaking. In a match with North, he suo-
ceeled in making an unfinished run of 820 (3 and
210 spots), the largest break ever accomplished in a
match for money. The previous best was 739 (55
and 189 spots) by Mltoheli in his match of 3000 up
for £lOOO, with Cook, at the St. James’ Hall, Picca-
dilly, on February 6 and 7, 1883.
Says a London paper“ Professor Sydney
Galvayne, the celebrated Australian horse-tamer,
accomplished on Saturday last a feat that has never
before been performed—that of throwing two
horses at once, single-handed, and in almost a
moment, neither being able to rise. Also, in
breaklng-in, riding, and driving a colt in less than
60 minutes; the owner’s man riding it home (a
distance of 12 miles) as tractable and obedient to
the bit as any old horse.”
Ithaca, N.Y., has turned out a pugilist
who intends to try and win the championship.
He rejoices in the name of Mike Conley, and is 20
years of age. His dimensions are as follows:
Chest (skin), IGln.; waist, 38%1n.; forearm, 14%in.;
biceps (near shoulder), 17iitin.; Oft. in stocking
feet; weight when not in training, lOJfj3t.; trained,
list. November 27th, Mr. Hayes, a noted sporting
{nan of Ithaca and backer of Conley, called at the
office of a sporting' N.Y. journal, posted £2O, and
left the following sweeping dett:—" lam prepared
to arrange a match to meet any man in the world
at cateh weights, according to the rules of the
London prize ring, and liarht with small gloves for
the sum of £2OO a-slde. The contest to take place
within three months from signing articles of
agreement, and Richard K. Fox, the proprietor of
the Police Gabettb, to be final stakeholder,
select the battle-ground, and appoint the referee.
I have instructed my backer to post a forfeit of
£2O with Richard K. Fox, which he has complied
with, and if aDy of the many heavy-weight
pugilists are as anxious to arrange a prize ring
encounter as they pretend to be they will cover
my backers, and name a time to meet at the
Police Gazette office to arrange a match, for I
am certain I can whip any man in the world ac-
cording to London prize-ring rule3.— Michael C.
Conley.”
THE PRETTIEST ASSORTMENT OF TOILET-
WARE TN THE C'iLONTES.
THE “PALACE” PRINTED TOILET SET,
on White or Ivory Body.
1 each jug and baein, 2 chambers, 1 each brush and
soap tray. Complete, 103.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Palace Emporium,
Ilaymarket only.
npHBATRB ROYAL.
JL Under the management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garnkh and Mnsoaov*.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
EVERY EVENING, at a quarter to 8.
THE MOST GORGEOUS PANTOMIME
EVER PRODUCED IN SYDNEY.
An Entirely New Version of the Old Fairy Story,
CINDERELLA,
HER SISTERS, HER SORROWS,
and
HER LITTLE GLASS SLIPPER;
or,
THE FAIRY GODMOTHER
who wouldn’t let
THE BAD STEP-FATHER.
Admission : Dress Circle. 55.; Stalls, 35.; Family
Circle, 2s.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box plan open at the Theatre daily from
10 till 5. No Free List.
NR w opera house.
Under the Lesseeship and Management of
Messrs. E. MAJERONI and W. J. WILSON.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING,
and until further notice,
MAJERONI & WILSON’S D RAMATIC COMPANY
in
QUEEN’S EVIDENCE.
QUEEN’S EVIDENCE.
QUEEN’S EVIDENCE.
THE HIT OF THE SEASON.
THE HIT OF THE SEASON.
A PRONOUNCED SUCCESS.
A PRONOUNCED SUCCESS,
MR. JOHN L. HALL
as ISAACS THE JEW.
“I’VE GOT A HEYE LIKE A HEAGLE.”
Prices as usual. Box plan at Nicholson’s Music
Warehouse, 325 George-street. Day tickets at
Cole’s Book Arcade, George-Btreet.
Academy of mubio.
Sole Proprietor and Manager. .F. E. Hisooeks.
Crowded again Last Night to witness the
CHANGE IN PROGRAMME.
75th WEEK 75 th
HISCOCKB’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and only Speciality Union.
BLACK PANTOMIME, HARLEQUIN,
BLACK “ HIDE ” SUSAN and her PLaIN BILL.
Will be produced at the termination of the Black
Pantomime, entirely new dramatised version of
UNCLE TOM’S CABIN.
rVIHE ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
JL George-street, Haymarket.
Lessee and Director Mr. Frank Smith.
The Home of Minstrelsy and Mirth.
The Popular and Fashionable Resort.
TO-NIGHT, and every evening during the week,
the Alhambra Variety and Speciality Union in
their Refined Entertainment,
MINSTELSY, OLIO, and FARCE.
IMMENSE SUCCESS. IMMENSE SUCCESS, of
CAPTAIN CAMPBELL,
the PREMIER VENTRILOQUIST,
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 2s; stalls, Is;
balcony, Is.
Artists of acknowledged ability disengaged,
please communicate with Mr. Frank Smith.
L
YNCH
Manager
FAMILY BELLRINGERS
(Organised 1807 1
.. Harry Lynch.
COUNTRY TOUR.
• Kiama (return visit)—Thursday, January 21.
Wollongong (return visit)—Fri. & Sat., Jan. 22. 23.
Burrawang (return visit)—Monday, January 25.
Moss Yale (return visit)—Tuesday, January 26.
Bowral, Mittagong, Picton, Camden, Campbell-
town, Liverpoc, &c , to follow.
|YNCH FAMILY BELLRINGERS
_ . mTTT WILL SHORTLY VISIT
BATHURST, ORANGE,
DUBBO, FORBES,
YOUNG, &c.
IJHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND
SYDNEY BRANCHES :
64 PITT-STREET, and 538 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital...
Reserve Fund ..
£1,000,000
675.000
This Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OP AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
EDWARD B. HOLT. Manager,
o
LYMPIC THEATR
J-ea see Mr. M. L. RAPHEAL.
Sub-Lessee and Director.. M. LEON CARON.
SATURDAY. JANUARY 23rd,
CARON’S ENGLISH OPERA COMPANY.
Grand Inaugural Performance,
[B BOHEMIAN GIRL.
THi
Special Engagement of Miss E. Sherwln.
Popular Prices, 45., 3a.. 2s , and la.
Sunday, January 24th, Grand Concert Spiritual.
H. J. SaMCELL, Business Manager.
BELTS
CURATIVE
ELECTRIC ELECTRICITY.
HEALTH WITHOUT MEDICINE.
Is obtained speedily and permanently by adopting
the safe and never-failing remedy of the new mode
of treatment by Electricity, as supplied to the
human system by wearing the MAGNET ICAL
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO.’S genuine ELEC-
TRIC BELT, a restorer of impaired vitality and
failing health. It is an unvarying success in the
cure and alleviation of Rheumatism, Indigestion,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Paralysis, Epilepsy, Constipa-
tion, Nervous Debility, and the numerous ailments
consequent upon living in a semi-tropical climate,
and the baneful effects of malaria, which alone
are caused by the deficiency or abstraction from
the body of the all-pervading element of ltfe-
electrieity. This mode of treatment is by far the
most perfect and successful method yet discovered
(combined with perfect safety) for supplying to the
body the continuous or imperceptible current of
electricity, without the aid of chain bands or use
of acid, thus giving no inoonvenience to the
wearer. They are charged ready for use, and re-
tain their full power for a considerable period.
But to avoid any disappointment by their possible
loss of electric power, and to keep the applianoes
up to their original strength, we undertake to re-
charge any of our appliances at the expiration of
twelve months, free of cost. One of the special
features of this treatment is the electric corset,
which is unsurpassed by its curative properties in
all female complaints, and is of superior shap i and
manufacture. Price, 10a. and 15s.
GENT’S ELECTRIC BELTS are manufactured
expressly for tropical climates, of superior mate-
rial, in the shape of a riding belt, and are very
durable. Price, 155.; special power, 30s. In order-
ing size of waist outside first garment is required.
If mailed, 2s. extra. Lung Invigorators for the
successful treatment of all lung complaints,
hitherto without the domain of Electric Agency,
price 20a. All who have a tendency to weak lungs
should adopt this treatment before it is too late.
The applianoes are adapted for local as well as con-
stitutional treatment in the form of Knee Caps,
7s. 6d. each ; Spine Bands, 10?. Insoles—which are
invaluable for cold feet, defective circulation,
rheumatism—4s. 6d. per (pair. Send size of boot,
or paper pattern of inside ; postage, Is. 6d. extra.
The public are warned against worthless imita-
tions of our goods, as the great success attending
the adoption of this mode of treatment has in-
duced other people to attempt, by so-called cau-
tions and notices, to mislead the public. Therefore
be careful to see that all goods are marked
“ Magnetical Electric Appliance Co., London and
Sydney.” All correspondence treated with the
greatest dispatch. Cheques and PO. Orders to
be made payable to
E. S. NEILD & CO.,
158 Pitt-street,
SOLE PROPRIETORS FOR AUSTRALIA.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, January 19,18€6.
Tinders for public works and sup-
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may he in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will he taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly compiled
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
JACOB GARRARD.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 16th January, 1886.
FRESH TENDERS FOR WOODEN BUILDING,
FRESH TENDERS are invited for the Erection
of a Wooden Building at the Maedonaldtown
Public School.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of i ender obtained, at the office of the Department
of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Fresh Tender for Wooden
Building, Maedonaldtown Public School,” must be
lodged with the Under Secretary. Department
of Public Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock
a.m., on Monday, the Ist February, 1886.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept
the lowest or any Tender.
J. H. YOUNG.
Low Ad Valorem Duties.
The following- letter has been refused insertion h
the 8. M. Herald, but, as I think It is most l ?
portant in the interests of our poorer and i n( j,
trious class, I prefer to pay for its insertion in j*’
Bulletin— the only Sydney journal which igj
afraid to be patriotic. It is remarkable that)
my letters refused by the Sydney Daily Tel*°
graph (see “ Australian Political Brochure n
1.,” page 11) and the b.M. Herald (hereuaj °'
impartiality was attributed to both newsna„.! , >
Can it be that both object to be styled impartial j'
“ (To the Editor of the ‘ Herald.’)
“ Sir,— Strychnine and arsenic in homoeopath
or even allopathy, are great restoratives, and n/'
mote good health; but let larger doses be tab™
and it is only a question of time when the nan.!
will die from their effects. Even so with iff?'
trade and Protection. It is quite likely the ex™
sive dose of one is killing England, while Ameri
may be suffering from too much of the oth.
But while some medicines are applied internal]'
others are used externally to the greatest adw
tage. I think Freetrade should be taken in An.'
tralia internally, by abolition of all direct taxation
but Protection is best applied externally by rw'
toms duties on our seaboard only. In 1884
allowed me to point out, on at least two occasion,
in your letters from America,jthe wondertui nm'
perity of that nation-buc lately, American
Freetraders have asserted the reverse. la w*,,
issue, 19:h January, 1884, your American corn.,
pondeot stated—‘Although, for two years
there has been a sensible depretslon in comment.]
business, it has affected rather profits than elth«
wages or the value of production. The com™
titlon for labour has remained sufficiently stead,"
to keep the working man busy, and to absorb inf
industries an enormous immigration of torei™
labourers; but it must be confessed that th.
manufacturer has made but little money.’ Well
was it any wonder that you told us— ‘ In America
where the Protectionist sentiment is strong inth»
community, a high tariff is, on the whole, mors
patronised by the working classes tban the polio,
of raising revenue by taxing property.’ Again
in your New York letter of May 3, W
I find—‘The great departments of tnanutac'
luring industry, while not flourishing ».
they did three or four years ago, ars
fairly active, and seem able t>o endure the
constant decline in the prices of goods without
danger of extinction,’ On the other hand, the
American Freetrade League has just stated
‘ Wages of men employed in the protected inW
tries and those dependent upon these tsuoh as
coal) have fallen 40 per cent, in the last 16 years ’
I think this statement should be received cum
grano salis, as the League says nothing about ‘the
constant decline in the prices of goods,’ which
workingmen as consumers have received the bene-
fit of. Kef erring again to the fm portant letter from,
the American Freetrade League in your issue
of 12th inst., permit me to notice some more of its
facis. It is said—’ The United States began in.
1789 a “ fair trade ” policy, and thij was “ a tariff of
834 per cent, ad valorem duties.” ’ It appears ‘in
1846 the highly protective tariff then existing was
repealed, and a tariff for revenue substituted
This still afforded a protection of 25 to 30 per cent
on ail the principal manufactures. In 1857 this,
tariff was again reduced by one-fifth.’ Mark this
to from 20 to 24per cent. Now, this was gradually
increased, and enormously so in 1864, and re-
mains substantially in force. Perhaps it is
noc to be wondered at, the attempt to
reduce the existing enormously high tariff,
as it is stated, ‘the increase of general weath,
measured by assessed valuations, went on at a far
greater ratio during the low tariff period than
ever before or since.’ Mark agarn, the low tariff
period was from 20 to 24 per cent. Protection, and
the American Free-trade effort is, not to abolish
Protection, but to run it on the low tariff lines.
To prove tnat England made a m-stake ia not sub.
stituting a moderate duty for the objectionable
sliding-scale Corn Law which was abolished, I
refer to J. R. M’Cuiloch's Commercial Diction,
ary. I find at page 425, ‘A duty may be equit-
ably imposed on imported corn for two ob-
jects—that is, either for sake of revenue, or
to balance any excess of taxes laid on the
agricuiturists over those laid on the other classes.'
At page 431: ‘ We are ready to admit that, had it
been practicable, we should have preferred see-
ing this great question settled by the adoption of
a measure for opening the ports under a fixed
duty of five shillings or seven shillings a quarter
(eight bushels) on wheat.’ You said on 13th in-
stant:—* If it be once admitted that high duties
areiDjurious.it will be difficult to contend that
even low duties can be beneficial.’ ‘lfa 75 per
cent, duty on pig-iron does harm in th# United
States, it would not be likely that a 5 per cent,
duty would do good in New South Wales.’ Well,
have I not already cited Free-traders' facts and
opinion to the contrary ? But a 5 per cent, art
valorem duty here might be so small as to have
the same effect towards Protection, as one drop
of Nux Yomioa or Arsenicum to a sick person, and
that is only in the imagination. 5 per cent, would
certainly not be protection, but it might be pre-
paring the way; and show that if all round, and
thus imperceptible, while affording considerable
revenue; if more was wanted. 10 per cent, might
then be protective as well as fiscal. And so thts
Homoeopathic treatment to our country would be
beneficial in a fiscal and protective way combined,
We are indebted to your impartiality, for reprint-
ing on the 15th instant, a statement of ‘the New
York correspondent of the Economist,’ and I
commend itto the serious consideration of our Go-
vernment, Parliament and people generally. ‘The
National Freetrade Conference lately held at
Chicago, has attracted wide attention. It is the
largest gathering of that character held in this
country since the war, and marks a distinct ad-
vance on the part of the largely unorganised
low tariff believers in this oountry. . . . The
Conference also demands a simpler classification
for levying duties, the abolition of mixed duties,
and the substitution of ad valorem duties, as least
burdensome to the olass of goods consumed by
the mass of the people.
“ Yours, &o.
•« jj gj g BOND, i
“ Elizabeth Bay, 16th January, 1886. ”
Lk G. HUENERBEIN,
ROYAL
PIANOFORTE
Music Warehouse,
318 REOR6E STREET.
Sole Agents for
John Brinsmoad & Son’s
Celebrated Pianos.
Pianos sold on terms to suit purchasers.
THE LATEST MUSIC AT HALF PRICE.
FISHING TACKLE of every description.
Fishing Rode, all prices. Artificial Fllefc
Frogs, Fisb, and Insects. Plaited SlJk Lines,
Twisted Silk Lines, Hooks on Gnt, Gimp, an«
Wire. Our Noted Sydney Lines, from 3d. to 2a
each. Long Bamboos for fishing rods, and ever!
description of Fishing Tackle.
Fishing Nets, ail sizes; priecs sent on application*
Also Seine, Herring, and Salmon Twinee; a ,s<f
Cork.
EASTWAY BROTHERS, Fishing Tackle Depot,
411 George-strtU


SUNDRY SHOWS.
m ROYAL—"Cinderella " *>. 8
moJbI HOCSB—“ Quean’s Evidence ” „
Minstrelsy, Olio, and Farce „
nJ'vMPiC-"Bohemian Girl”
academy of Music.—Federal Minstrels.... ~
on Saturday night we resumed the seat re-
.nrVpdfor us at the Royal on the steps. Nellie Stew-
were glad to see, has quite recovered the use
two toes. As a gatherer of fire wood, however,
la not a pronounced success. The few chips
!wd managed to secure after a whole morning’s
loaning might boil a thimble, but certainly not a
faiicepan. It is strange how people will some-
times go miles to look for fuel when nothing but
a few palings separates them from their neigh-
hnur’s wood heap. How can persons ever expect
in rise in the world, and marry into Royal families,
if thev let such opportunities pass ? With the ex-
neotion of the weapons possessed by the Sydney
t aimers, we do not remember to have seen any
more cruel-looking things than the spears carried
hv the Prince (Docy Stewart) and his attendants
when going to chase the wild boar. Suggestive as
they were of blood and ruin, they caused a per-
ceptible shudder among the children near us. Still,
it is not unlikely that if a wild bear saw them, he
would just look round for a stump to sit upon and
laugh. We are not prepared to bet upon a wal-
laby but we will gladly back a paddy-melon to
up-end the hunters and eat their weapons. You
could piok out the Prince at once, by the way he
wanted to kiss Cinderella at the first meeting
This is a failing of Princes. For instance, our own
p ,of W . But, to return.
9 9 9
The Stewart sisters rightly divide the
largest share of the applause. Dooy is plump,
presentable, and painstaking. She has a pleasing
voice and plenty of “go.” Nellie also— although
as a kitchen wench her back hair looks a trille
tousled aud her face as if it had but a bowing ac-
quaintance with soap and water—makes a seduc-
tive princess. We should like a closer inspection
of the glass slipper and then of her feet, just to
see how she manages it—but, perhaps, it is as well
not to be too curious. The humour of Greville
and Lance Lenton is chiefly confined to affording
frequent opportunities for inspecting their under-
clothing. Miss Kelton is a useful flunkey with
whose digestion and bearing a little setting-up drill
would not disagree. As a tutor, Mr, Daniels is un-
like anything we remember before in that line—
we’ve been in it ourselves. Mr. John Forde appears
more given to alcohol than domesticity. His sing-
ing we’ve heard equalled m Milan, as the Baron s
page, Mr. Wallace secures a good deal of attention
and deserved acclamation. But his voice is not of
the highest order. If some other arrangements
could be made by means of which Sam Keenan, or
even George Labertouche, warbled from the roof
while Mr. Wallace twisted and made faces, we
believe a much-felt want would be met. Of the
demons we have already spoken. If those in the
next world should prove all like them, we fail to
see the necessity for constantly praying to be de-
livered from them. A child with a toy trumpet
would put all Hades to flight.
* * *
The redeeming point about this panto-
mime is the scenery. But, in the interests of the
numerous children who will, no doubt, visit it, we
must protest against the profanity which is the
crying evil of modern stage representations. The
very first scene is described on the “ Blasted
Heath in Witchland.” Surely our language is not
so short of adjectives that this objectionable one
need be retained? Now, if the adapters would
change it to “blooming, or” [Oh, shut up.—
Ed. B.]
m# m m
The Sydney D.T. has just discovered that
the “ Private Secretary ” is a translation from the
German. There’s no knowing the lengths that
D.T. people will go to gain information. They
must have gone through nearly eight months of
The Bulletin file to make this interesting dis-
covery.
* *• * »
The management of the Sydney Opera
House would appear to have been delving
diligently in the fields of dramatic antiquities.
“Queen’s Evidence ” is the latest thing they have
struck. It is hardly necessary to observe that
this is an impossible play, consisting of an incon-
ceivable plot, containing incomprehensible situa-
tions, and including in the dramatis personal some
superlatively improbable characters. The Ust of
incidents reads like the catalogue of crimes at a
Quarter Session, and some of the dialogue like the
brighter conversation of Tarban Creek. When
“ Queen’s Evidence ” was last played here, it was
remarkably popular—with those who liked it. It
is so still. On the floor of the house the habitues
rarely concern themselves with any considerations
of the unities, and applause from that region is
constant and prolonged, And in the circle, during
the more touching scenes, the display of cambric
and silk was affectingly lavish. “ I have not had
suoh a good cry since Flo died,” observed an
elderly matron, whose performance in the water-
cart business had been especially energetic.
“Flo,” we afterwards discovered to have been her
pet poodle,
* * *
“Queen’s Evidence” was written for
Isaacs, and Isaacs was made for Johnny Hall.
We have never been able to discover what was the
author’s exact intention regarding the oha-
raoter of Isaacs. The present exponent shows
us a villainous Israelite, with a heart like
a pumpkin—a Jew who runs through the
whole calendar of iniquity, and then at the
proper moment throwd off all his villainy
with the same nonchalance with which a
N.B.W. Minister abandons his political prin-
ciples; an amusing Jew, yet one lacking in the
depth, stolidity, and shrewdness of his race. With
Mr. H. N. Douglass as Gilbert Medland, we were
not pleased. His voice falls at the end of each
sentence with the monotonous regularity of
Bunny Corner Silver shares, and throughout all
his lines we seem to detect a here-endeth-the-
-Becond-lesson refrain, which made us grieve that
his slaughter in the first act, by Isaacs, or some-
body, were not part of the business. Nor do we
think the Matthew Thornton deserving of un-
limited "jam.” That perpetual and leery grin
does not usually adorn the face of a consummate
scoundrel. We would like to see Mr. Baker in some
more reasonable and consistent character. Young
Sherwood was a natural boy, and managed his
voice cleverly.
* * *
Maggie Knight brought down the house
by her powerful acting in the shooting scene.
She and hubby quarrelled so naturally that the
performance directly appealed to every man and
woman in the house who anew what it was to
hear the whizz of flat irons and the crash of
crockery in their little four-roomer. Maggie, in
the first soene, is busy in the kitchen, and our
universal knowledge enables us to point out
several little inconsistencies in the business.
Firstly, we might remark that it is not usual to
Put away the breakfast things until they have
travelled through the washup-dish, and, further,
we never saw a laundress run her finger over an
iron to And out whether it was hot enough. Of
course, Miss Knight is too refined to test the
warmth of the implement in the usual vulgar way.
* *
The scenery in “Queen’s Evidenoe” is
effective, particularly in the lock scene. " Under
the Gaslight ” is in preparation.
** # «
The “Green Lanes of England ” still draws
a good many married couples to the stalls of the
Gaiety, and a good numoer of tow-headed men
in their shirt sleeves to the gallery. By the latter
aaotion of the public a feu-de-joie of insultingly
Personal remarks on the appearance and idiosyn-
cracies of the actors is kept up. It is singular what
a “down” an ordinary gallery has upon viee—
Particularly when the iront seat is occupied by a
tipsy sailor. Anything in the shape of violence to
a female—whether she deserves it ©r not—is re-
lented with proianely-expressed disapproval. So
ion# as our seamen continue to mix so much
virtue with their bravery, so long will Britannia
rule the waves.
* * *
The manner in which old Martin Wheat-
stone (Mr. Holloway) denounces his only ehild
(Myra Kemble) should be seen by any unforgiving
rather who has a grown-up daughter of whom he’s
desirous of getting rid. But Myra is a tough one
to get off your hands. She objects to die, and
carries her point. She is a favourite with the
audience, but—it may be fancy—we sometimes
thought we detected a slight expression of levity
on her features—especially when her father's fury
is running over and he is standing in the slop. Bill
the Slogger, too (Mr. Stark), in spite of his mouth
and week’s beard, is held in general respect. But
if the black-eyed and demonstrative sailor-man in
the gallery on Saturday night had got his hands on
the monster Flint (he hung about the stage door
waiting for him when the piece was over) another
artist would have been required for Monday’s
representation.
** * *
At the Alhambra a change of programme
is presented. The burlesque is withdrawn, and
the usual variety entertainment is now given. Cap-
tain Campbell introduces his talking figures.
They are all wooden heads, and, like the ordinary
run of legislators, they say a good deal which
means very little. Probably, after a lew week’s
run at the Alhambra, one of them will be contest-
ing West Sydney. There is no great difference
between a candidate for Parliament and a ven-
triloquist’s dummy. Each has his speeches made
for him, and the questions and answers are ail
readied uo. Miss Minnie Hope, as a hybrid
maßher, with more handkerchiefs in her pockets
than we have in our wardrobe, warbles
the Masher King.” If Minnie can use the
potatoe masher as well as she abuses the
woman masher, her dinners must be choice.
Matlock’s song of the “Tress of Hair,” we know.
Last week a tress, or a hair of auburn hue, ap-
peared on our sleeve as we entered the boudoir in
which our wifa was seated. Two minutes subse-
quently we had a lump on our cranium which
nature never established. W© had collided with a
volume of “Dark Days.” We are thankful it
wasn t the “ Complete Shakespeare.” Miss Amy
Howe’s “Madoline ” was a sweet and satisfactory
performance. In response to a request from a
Chinese gentleman in the gallery, named Hong
Kore, Miss Rowe repeated her solo.
«■ * ■&
The performance of “Mother Goose” at
the Olympic on Monday night was spiritedly
given, the comely nymphs prancing and romp-
ing about the stage like a lot of potato-bugs
skirmishing away from the front of a horse-hoe.
The creatures processed as they have done each
evening for three weeks. There are about fifteen
Centurie?, the woeful ancient Briton clad in leopard
skins and melancholy, with long down-streaming
hair, being first to appear, after which follow our
Anglo-Saxon, NormaD, French, and other pro-
genitors, even unto the times of John Davies,
uM.G., inclusive. Then the Centuries dance.
There is a peculiar feature In the pedographical
performance. The ancient Briton, most of whose
terpsiehorean efforts were probably confined to
climbing trees as she chased the gray gerfalcon’s
wounded prey.from limn to limb, steps the same
measure as the 19th century lady. The whole is a
local adaptation of a minuet of ages,
and a mixed minuet at that.
* * *
Miss Ida Francis is a vision in long hair
and loveliness arrayed. She doubles the part of
Mother Red Cap and Mother Hubbard, and is
charming in both. She has not much to say, but
she has a lot to look, and she looks It. Queen
Tiddyiddy (what a name for a Queen, even of
burlesque) had a little black spot under her nose
(Miss barony's nose) the first night of the show,
and may we be compelled to Jive on gruel forever
if it Isn’t there yet. And there are nearly 5000
tons of soap made in N.S.W. annually. (Oh I
beauty spot, is it?) Well, it’s there. We don’t
know all the other young ladies. Some of them
have very big parts-the parts they kick with.
Tom Ma'one was in with us on Monday night,
and he opined that if their speed was in pro-
portion to their muscle, properly trained they
could break records. We offered to book a small
bet that the majority of tnem without training
could break crockery when family jars were pre-
sent. Tom wouldn’t bet. He’s you know.
Miss Ida Osborne deserves a good line, and she
shall have it if it has to go in as an advertise-
ment. To her much of the success attending the
pantomime’s production is due, and from the
public, as from the management, she deserves a
kindly acknowledgment.
* * *
“Darky” Stanfield and Sullivan may be
triumvirated; they cannot, be very much over-
rated. They did their little utmost to make the
thing whizz.
* * *
The same company has been engaged to
produce the piece in ihe country, and Raphael
guarantees to serve it up as well as we have bad
it here. If so, our rural friends will have a genuine
dramatic picnic.
# * #
Mon. Caron’s English opera company open
at the Sydney Olympic on Saturday night with
the Bohemian Girl.” Mons. Caron will present
on Sunday evening a grand vocal and instrumental
sacred concert, and each Sunday during the sea-
son will be deveted to the works of some great
composer. The innovation will he welcome.
*# * #
Rignold will open at the Sydney Royal
about February 13 for a short season. Conway
and Carr’s “ Called Back ” will be the first produc-
tion, with the only Rignold as Maccari, the Spy,
and Miss Kate Bishop as Pauline, The cast will ;
differ but slightly from the first production of the
piece at the Opera House, Melbourne. At the
conclusion of the Sydney season the company will
proceed to New Zealand.
#* # «
Palmer’s Seven Stars crowd are playiug
up in North Queensland. Biz has been fairly good.
Fred Millis and Edwin’s self have, by way of
novelty, had a monetary disagreement, in which
the man of many voices claimed four pounds
more than Palmer would pay. Mr. W. H. Day
P.M, arbitrated In the case, and Mi Ills was mulcted
with 105. costs. According to the evidence, Fred’s
claim was for two nights, in which, owing to the
oompany being en route from Gyrapie to Brisbane,
there was no snow.
# & #■
A letter from Auckland (N.Z.) describes
that clumsily-built town as being quite as hot and i
twice as dull at the present time as Sydney. The
Vogel loans seem to have been all consumed long
ago. The only piece of luck it has had for years is.
as the letter goes on to say, that George Darrell
sailed in and put the “ Sunny South ” on the
boards of Abbott s Opera House on Boxing Night.
The melancholy population stepped in and sat
down every night for a fortnight, while George
was shooting people, and Annie Mayor was making
neat speeches about “her all of love.” They say
they hope George will keep on at it until Vogel
starts “another swindle.”
Sydney Grundy’s comedy, “The Glass of
Fashion,” is the new bill at the Melbourne Bijou.
Society journalism was professedly satirised in
this little work, and its original production at the
Globe was peculiarly distasteful to Edmund Yates
The genial Edmund considered himself to be per-
sonally affronted by Sydney Grundy. It Is pro-
bable that Grundy had consider ad himself to be
personally affronted by the Would on some pre-
vious occasion, and wrote his comedy out of pure
malice. An unfavourable critique on one of his
earlier Plays may have caused all the trouble
Dramatic authors suffer irom the same weakness
as do ladies and gentlemen of the “ profession ”
an unhealthy appetite for “ butter.” The sort of
journalism which moves them to laughter by its
airy sauciness and melts them to tears by Its un-
affected pathos, is—a good fat “ notice.” Aoythiog
else they despise. This acoounts for the proles-
sious predilection for certain papers. Nosy, if
any misguided author were to write a play con-
taining sinister allusions to The Bulletin, an
Australian company would steadfastly decline to
have anything to do with it. And how have we
attained our present popularity among the pros. ?
By systematically beslavering plays and players,
irrespective of merit. It is quite open to other
journals to follow our example and adopt Grovel
as their watchword. If the editor of the World
had but properly buttered Mr. Sydney Grundy,
, Glass of Fashion ” would never have re-
flected its author’s spleen.
* * *
The “Glass of Fashion” is a shilling
From what we could see of it at the
u a Pp eare< l to be a two-page publication,
which hasn t yet attained the dignity of a wrap-
aP uncommonly dear shilling’s
worth. The outside sheet is adorned with the
portrait of a fashionable beauty, and the rest of
the paper is devoted to chronicling her move-
ments, and so forth. The editor of this organ
prowls about with an open book in search of
materials for society ” copy. In the first act we
round him pursuing his literary labours in the
house of a rioh brewer, Mr. Macadam. Dazzled
m Prospect of eDjoying unlimited paragraphs
all about himself and his furniture (not to mention
free ads. of thefirm’s unrivalled beers), the brewer
is tempted to become the proprietor of the “ Glass
of Fashion. We were not surprised to find
that he repented of his bargain. Some of the
pars., read aloud, were altogether so depressing
that we felt convinced the “Glass” must prove a
fizzle. The readers are all supposed to threaten
the paper with libel actions, and Mr. Macadam has
to buy them off. The idea is too preposterous,
buch a dreary production must have killed the
readers with its first issue. The artist for the
shilling Glass ’is a bogus Polisb;Prinee, who, take
it altogether, treats “ fashionable beauties ” very
lr . st he wina all their money at cards,
then he links their names with his own in com-
promising paragraphs in the “ Glass,” and finally,
as a masterpiece of cruelty, he sketches their fair
faces for the next week’s issue. The wife
°£. a certain Colonel Trevanion comes worst
??• ter *? siD& , a thousand pounds to
the Prince at euchre, or poker, or some
other society game, she is innocent enougfi to pay
a visit to his studio. Foolish Mrs. Trevanion is
then in the bad man’s power. He calls her atten-
tion to a paragraph in the “Glass”—one of Ms
own—which not unnaturally distresses the poor
lady; he kisses her, and he sketches her. The two
last are equally hasty operations. Both take in-
side two seconds by a stop-watch. Fortunately,
the sketch is never completed. The bogus Prince
falls into the hands of the police, Mrs. Trevanion
forswears innocent flirtation and comes to a pro-
per understanding with her husband, the brewer
renounces his literary venture, and the minor
characters pair off happily. What becomes of the
editor is not quite clear. We fancy he becomes
London correspondent for the Sydney Morning
Herald.
* » •
Such a flimsy plot as this requires strong
interpretation. Speaking generally, the acting is
very good, Mr. Dion Boucicault, fils, plays the
Polish Prince in a style that nearly makes us for-
get he is too small for the part. Unfortunately,
Mrs. Trevanion is a lady of more than the average
height, and her behaviour in the Prince’s studio
is altogether inexplicable from a commonsense
point of view. Instead of fleeing from her
foreign admirer she ought to have boxed his ears.
In a fair stand-up fight between the pair it would
be a pony ”to a pin on the lady. Miss Trevelyan
possesses the necessary physical qualifications for
the ‘ fashionable beauty.” Perhaps it is the
author’s fault that she appears somewhat inno-
cent and fresh. Mrs. Trevanion seems too artlefs
altogether, considering that she undoubtedly
plunges at euchre, and presumably waltzes with
the Prince of W s. Mr. Titheradge is excellent
as her gallant hubby, who returns from potting
Zulus at Korke’s Drift to find his wife has been
distributing 1.0.U.s and flirting with a card-
sharper. As the husband of a lady who has pre-
sumably waltzed with the Prince of W s, he
gets the sympathy of everybody in the house
Miss Boucicault trips daintily through the
pretty part of the “beauty’s” sister. Mr.
Hans Phillips enjoyed the beatific privi-
vilfge of gaining her affections. By the way,
either Miss Boucicault or Miss Trevelyan was
favoured with a nice bouquet on the night of our
visit. An enthusiast in the oircle seized the happy
moment when nobody was eaying or doing any-
thing to hurl his floral tribute at somebody on the
stage. The Lord only knew whom it was intended
for. It landed violently against the side pillar, and
lay neglected near the footlights for the rest of
the evening. We believe the stage oat ultimately
devoured that bouquet. But to resume. Mr.
Brough is funny as the brewer who buys the
Glass.’ We should imagine that the author had
never seen a Bass, Allsop, Guinness, or Meux
when he created a Macadam. Mr. Brough inter-
prets Grundy’s ideas and gets the best laughs ef
the evening, but he isn’t a bit like a brewer. Mac-
adam is supposed to be a beer-king, an M.P., and
the husband of a countess. As played, he is j'ust
as unreal a personage as is the uncouth Joint
Stock Company promoter in “The Parvenu.” Miss
Watt Tanner is particularly good as the brewer’s
high-born wife, and Mr. Herbert Flemming does
his best with the impossible character of the
editor. Many better comedies than the “ Glass of
Fashion ” have not been half so successful.
Last week we referred to a religious
lunatic who goes around with chalk, marking
chapters in the Bible on walls, pavements, people’s
doors, shutters and other places. He has recom-
mended a whole lot of chapters for perusal, and
now it is our turn. Suppose the man with the
chalk turns up chapter xxvi. of Proverbs, and
takes a spell at it himself. Most of the advice in
it will just fit, and if he should And it just a little
personal it won’t be our fault, we didn’t write it.
If we had it might have been a trifle stronger.
The people flocked to the Gaiety on Sun-
day night to hear Joseph Symes tell how he be-
came an Atheist. The doorkeepers say they
turned away hundreds. There we sat sweltering,
while all the time there was lots of room in the
churches; it was comparatively cool and lonely in
those tabernacles. We dare say had we distributed
ourselves-among these mausoleums of a moribund
creed we should have had a whole pew each, and
nothing to pay for it. But we wouldn’t go even
at that price—we preferred to pay our shillings,
our sixpences to hear Symes, to gaze on Bright, to
be tickled by Feuillade and Co., ana to catch cold
on coming out. The mention of Bradlaugh’s name
was received with an outburst of applause,
heartier than any that ever welcomed the
Governor. Jos will be succeeded at the Gaiety by
W. W. Collins, who arrived on Wednesday under
engagement to the Secularists. We are told that
he is a man of small dimensions, but of very great
courage, ability, and earnestness.
Custom House Hotel, Maryborough, Q.
Gentlemen,— One application of St. Jacob’s Oil,
well rubbed in, cured me of a severe attack of
rheumatics in the right shoulder and arm. On a
former occasion an application of this valuable
oil cured me of a similar attack in the hand. I
know of many instances of cures being effected
by this remedy where others have failed. One was
the case of a fireman on board one of the A.B.N.
Company’s steamers on the Queensland Coast, who
got a severe strain in his side through lifting a
heavy mass of coal. I bapppened to have a bottle
of st. Jacob's Oil in my portmanteau (in fact I
never travel without it), and got permission to
apply it, with the result that the man was able to
resume his work next day. You can make any
use of this testimonial you please.—Yours truly,
J. J. PORTER,
Queensland representative of Messrs. W.
Gardiner and Co., Sydney.
■Wolfe’s Schnapps— Beware of would-be rivals
of this great elixir—Always get Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Oriental Gold.
Great Sacrifice!
Immense Reduction!
THE
ORIENTAL GOLD 00.
B E §T>SSUl I*y 1 *y« att * ntion t 0 the REDUCED
PRICES of their
Mignilht Min!
OBSERVE PRICE LIST BELOW.
Ladies’ Handsome Orlenta Gold Alberts, 10a, 15a.
17s 6d, and 30s eaoh
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 4s and 5s per pair
Ladies’ Choice Necklets, 5s eaoh
Ladies’ Choice Necklets, best' American Plate, 20a
each
Ladies’ Elegant Bangles, 4s, 6s, and 10s per pair
Choice Lockets, 6a each
Handsome Gem Rings, 4s and 8s 6d each
Wedding and Keeper Rings, in Solid Gold, 7s 8d
each
Ladies’ Handsome Lockets, 10s each
Ladies’ Elegant Crosses, 4s, ss, and 6s each
Ladies’ Brooch and Earring Sets, from 5s to 16s
Thimbles, warranted Sterling Silver, 3s 0d each
Gents’ O. G. Watches, Hunting, Open-Faced
Crystal Glass, and patent Keyless, 80s each,
warranted 3 years
Ladies’ (same as above,)
These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and Jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully Jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses .. .. .. .. J 4 0 0
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
Jewelled, and compensation balance ..#5OO
Rotherham’s celebrated English Patent
Levers *4 10 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance ~ #5 0 0
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses.. .. £3 15 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance.. .. £4 15 0
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance Is forwarded with each watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph, £6 0
Ditto, extra Jewelled, of the highest
grade .. .. 0 0
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
full jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Lodket .. £8 10 0
We import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
[ of ai,i, the saving thus efieoted-about 85 per oent.
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
! give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
! in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £6 watches would not
oost less than £8 to £lO.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 4a
each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Rings, half round buokle
flat broad buokle, engraved, good luck rings
2s 6d eaoh.
Gent’s richly chased engraved and plain Solitaire
and Link Suites, 3s, 4s, ss, and 6s 6d per set.
Same as above, only half sets, is 6d, 3s, and 3s per
set.
Best American Patent Spring Solitaire Suites,
5s per set.
Gent’s elegant Seals, 4s each,
Gent’s Elegant Compasses, 4a each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alberts, 6s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold handsome Scarf Pins, Is,
6d, 3s, 3s 6d, 3s, 3s 6d, 4s, 4s 6d, ss, and 5s 6d eae
Very best American Pencil Cases, 3s 6d each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold ilatch Boxes, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Sovereign Purses, 4s each.
Richly engraved Bracelets, 6s eaoh.
Handsome Bracelets, beautifully jewelled, Bs, 10s,
13s, and 14s each.
Broooches, Brooches, Brooches, Is 6d, 3s, 3s 6 i, 3s,
3s 6d, 4s, 4s 6d, ss, 5s 6d, 6s, 6s 6d, 7s, 7s ed, be, 8s
6d, 9s, 9s Bd, and 10s each.
PLEASE NOTE.
Ail goods will he sent post free, with the excep-
tion of the watches, orders for which must be ac-
companied with an extra amount of two and six-
pence to defray postage expenses. Send in your
orders early, as the goods must be sold, and no one
should miss this chance of procuring the beautif u 1
gems at less than cost price.
Noth the Address :
The Oriental Gold Co.,
474 George Street,
OPPOSITE THE MARKETS.


BRIEF MENTION.
Several English voters have died suddenly
of “ eleotoral excitement.” This is a new and good
name for the jim-jams.
They Were disoussing that half-hearted
attempt to rob a Melbourne bank. “ Anything
taken ? " asked No. 1 man. “ Only a woman’s life,”
said man No. 3. “ Ab, women have no business
to be about banks.”
Tenterfleld Record says: “ The Post-
master General has been re-elected for West Syd*
“ Bishop Barry is at present on a visit to the hot
springs of New Zealand.”— hicbakje
“In his report of the recent g
ortiifie of the Wolverene the commander complains of
want of % sufficient jpumber of seamen.”
~ -—" ~ men to man each cork-screw P
U nderone p ire this state of things
Several members of the N.B.W. Water Conser-
vation Commission have gone bn a visit to the
Victorian Water Conservation Commission.
Water is thicker than—— but we forbear.
*' At the wharf-labourers’ banquet last night, the I
Premier said that he never had any sympathy with -
capitalists, but he counselled moderation on the part
_ of labour at the present crisis.”
- If the “ crisis,” then present, was of the brand
usually furnished—to banquerts—Sir John, then, coun-
selled well I /c .
v*' In reply to the address from the “
e t wharf-labourers yesterday, Lord Car-
bo ington said that the greatest pride of
his life was to think that he owed his
,l present position to the integrity and
industry of an ancestor who had risen
from the ranks.*’ „
During the recent heated term our artist maintained a position of masterly inactivity,
The annual black and white exhi-
bition of the Art Society of N.B.W.
is now open.
Timely Tips.
Hey unopposed. The proceedings were uninterest-
ing.” Dan. spoke for an hour, yet this owl hoots
about “ uninteresting!”
Thady O’Kane, of the Northern Miner,
lays that tbe Sydney Jhrnit, sent a man to sleep
at Townsville lately. The fool of a fellow must
have tried to read it! They’re always doing extra-
ordinary things up at Townsville.
An enterprising Melbourne bookseller ad-
Artises that he will give anyone £lOO who can
prove that there is or ever was in the world a
funnier book tban the Fun Book he has now for
sale. We will take that century. Let him get the
poems of D. B. W. Sladen. If he does not admit
that these are the funniest printed things in the
world then Is there no honesty in man.
“He sang one song and died; no more
but that,” is the first line of a recent song. With
plenty of Sydney soloists it is those who hear who
wish to die. Some of our rising amateurs would
have done better had they reversed this perform-
ance,— they should have died first.
The Sydney Omnibus Co. have a notice
posted in their vehicles that “no adult passenger
is allowed to take more than one child free.” This
rule should be amended so as to privilege twins—
unless Lord Carington, now that he is Great
Mokanna, will institute a sort of “ Queen’s
Bounty.”
From a N.B.W. country journal concern-
ing a recent appearance of Dr. Hughes, the Free-
thought orator:—“ When the lecturer had just
entered on the threshold of his discourse he
apologised to his audience for his inability to pro-
ceed owing to a sudden attack of dyspepsia.”
Humph!
“ Who in thunder is this copy from? ”
said the sub-editor of a new evening paper, turn-
ing over two or three dozen slips of di gs-eared
soreed. “ That’s ’s ” said a reporter standing
by. “ How do you know ? ” inquired the sub-
editor, sharply. “ By its smell of rum,” quietly
replied the reporter.
Some musioal authority in England asserts
that there are only two recognised voices-ehest
and falsetto. This is all bosh. If he will come
ropnd with us to our Congregational Chapel, we
will prove to him that there is a third voice-
through the nose. People naturally sing the same
way that they pay pew-rents.
Here is a little fact from the early history
of N.S.W., which may be interesting to Temper-
anoe lecturers. On the ninth day of March, in the
year 1836, a Quaker named John Tawell, to show
his devotion to the cause of Temperance, caused
upwards of 600 gallons of rum to be publicly cast
into Sydney Harbour. He was subsequently
haDged. It would be cruel to point the moral.
Two nice little boys, in surplices, from a
lofty newspaper office in the city, ravish the souls
of a High Church congregation in the suburbs
with the harmony they evolve from two healthy
pairs of lungs. “ Wasb’t it sweetly appropriate ?’
warbled the parsoness after church, “to hear
those dear boys s'nging the Gloria in excelm like
Herald angels ? ” Yet Bloggp, the churchwarden,
ruthlessly destroyed the poetic similitude b
observing that if the youngsters were Hwaid
angels on Sunday they were Herald devils at
the rest of the week.
Thus the Armidale Chronicle :—*<
Sydney Lancers were put through their exeroi*
last week. As their lances had not arrived the
used bamboos instead—probably quite as
tivel” This is the unkindest cut of all. it Vs !
had enough for the Lanceahs to be slobbered over
by the Sydney Echo, and to be asked, “Where
did yer make the ’bus ’ojse ?” by the gamins of the
gutter.
The Melbourne police seem to be a ge ol>
lot, judging by what we have noticed In the lo*
papers lately. One constable stationed in Sou
Melbourne has just been dismissed from the foj
lor assaulting two young men. Another A ll
himself with whisky, not wisely, but too weltfj
New Year’s Eve, and biffed a young party under*''
ear, afterwards looking up the said young P® 1
for assault.
The statue of General Gordon i* to jjj
erected on the site now oceupiei by that of*
Charles Napier, in Trafalgar Square, LoLdon. *
statue of Sir Charles will te removed to the b BC
ground. Well, Si 1 Charles had his day. A- tb*


ome when General Gordon’s statute will also
Z nut in the background to make room for the
bronze simulacrum of some mightier hero—say of
genniker Heaton.
w e read that Count Tolsti, a Russian
writer, having overtaxed his poor brain, has
abandoned literature for a while and taken to
a , ma l t ing. The Count was one of those for.
unaS amateurs who are able to devote them-
wholly to their art. He wrote, wrote,
until his head was wrong. Now the happy
"The Moral Effect."
BI SMARCK (who being about to setze Samoa, suddenly remembers the N.S.W. Contingent): "MIEN GOTT! I NEVER THOUGHT OF THAT!" (Deeampe in great consternation
Australian journalist who has to chop the wood
eaoh evening before retiring to slumber keeps his
health and never needs to take a spell at shoe-
making. A cursory glance at some newspaper
men’s heels establishes the fact that they know
nothing of that trade, anyway.
Up at Brisbane there is a trembling little
paper called the Quiver, which Is as big as quite
several leaves from a reporter’s note boob. About
xalf its space is filled with ads., and about half
lonsists of unaoknowleged cuttings from The
Bulletin. We don’t grumble at tlieir cribbirg
our pars., hut we wish they would crib our best
ones. It generally happens that a man who lacks
ability to write well also lacks judgment to steal
with success.
“A ohild two years old fell out of a rail-
way carriage at Parramatta one day last week
when the train was crossing the bridge, but
miraculously escaped without the slightest in-
jury.” Uml miraculously escaped. Miraculous
mistake of the paragraphist. A Parramatta train
travels just about as quickly as a side-splitting
joke meanders through a Caledonian’s mind. And
that rapid rate of transit would never cause a
child to throw “ the little golden seven.” No, sir,
the Parramatta lightning express would not knock
a dying he-goat out. It’s not the miles it travels*
but the pace, that makes men old.
The commercial editor of the Melbourne
Age estimates that If the public debts of the Aus-
tralasian colonies were equally distributed, every
man, woman, and child would have to carry £vo
as his or her individual share. We dare say. It
is a curious speculation. Our share sits lightly 1
Everyman to bis trade. A Congregational
parson at St. Kilda (Melb.), not content with
ministering to the spiritual wants of a female
memberofhlsflock, a^ e “ pt^ to preBcr ( ib d e f °™
fracture of her ribs. The poor lady died. Ohis
shows the mistake of a parson dabbling in things
of this world. There is but one method by which
a clergyman can successfully perform the func-
tions of a surgeon. That’s Dowie’s method.
Appeal to the patient’s faith—the treatment is
only suitable for ladies-and then breathe on her*
Some parsons accomplish wonders by merely
tickling the fair sufferers. The Bt. Kilda man,
however, tried the unspiritual remedy of a linseed
poultice, and a coroner’s jury properly enough
censured him in their verdict.
The S. M. Herald, ever prostrate at the
toes of “those who rule over us,” says re the
Sydney newsboys’ picnic:—"lt shou’d also be
mentioned that the Hon. Lady Carington for-
warded a Christmas plum-pudding, which formed
a most important item of the feast, and made the
boys happy because her Ladyship had bestowed so
much attention upon them.” Boshl The news-
boys were made happy, not by sentiment, but by
plum-duff. They would have b3en just as pleased
had the puddiDg been made out of the same
materials by the matron of the Benevolent
Asylum. Lady Carington is a very charming
woman, and we all adore vice-royalty, but, for
Heaven’s sake, Granny, give us less slimy grovel,
and stop trying to pump evidences of loyalty out
of little bingies full of currants and suet. Ap-
petite doesn’t mean Imperialism, even if Hunger
does mean Revolution.
The Melbourne Banks run each other too
much in competition In the suburbs. Wretched-
looking are some of the places notified as branch
Banks. The Bank of Australasia, for Instance, hat
housed itself at St. Kilda in a room of the net*
addition made to the George Hotel. It is this
skimpiness of the Bank buildings which make
raids upon them look so. easy to these wishing tc


aaaccount with a crowbar or a revolver
only. The branoh of the National Bank in Simp-
son a Koad, wbioh was robbed some 10 months
back, was a most unbank-Uke building; and the
8t “ok-up Commercial Branoh Bank in
oddle-3t. is established in tbe front patlour of a
weather-board cottage. Such shifts were tolerated
on the diggings in bygone times, but the old
fashion should not be imitated in a city’s suburbs
rrm b nh Hi! bankinsr lnto contempt, and looks too
S iS?r I !.h«ii e i. P i* yin ® at bUBineBsin the back yard
or our childish days.
The editor of the Wagga Advertiser
enquires through the columns of his valuab’e
P a ?® r *7 by he doeBn, t rise at daylight and take a
bath oftener. Go to—ask us something difficult if
you are going to start a conundrum column:—
Tell us, gentle Advertiser,
If you were an early riser,
Would you be a sleepier “ we ”
I han you just now seem to be ?
If you washed would you be cleaner,
Would your “ witty ” shafts be keener, I
Would—ln short— would you be better— j
Would you, could you, oft be “ wetter ”? i
“Legal reciprocity has been established
between N.S.W. and Victoria; there Is an agree-
ment between the courts of the two colonies
tor tbe admission by each of the solicitors of the
other originally admitted to the other.”-
Too much “ other,”
Learned brother 1
Too muoh legal mystery.
Awful bother,
Posh and pother
Hide this reciprocity.
Sharks in water
Always slaughter
Fishes when they want a feed;
Hang this treaty,
Eat, and eat ye,
Here and there you’ll still be fee’d.
Muoh-suffering Sydney is afflicted with
another curse-the bagpipes. Her “Highland
Regiment,” now being formed, is to have eight-
and-thirty pipers, even if it has but “four-and-
twenty men,” which reminds one that that “aris-
tocratic” corps, the Sydney Lance-ahs-whose little
aim it is to fill the place occupied in more civilised
countries by the “Household Cavalry’’-has 30
men andTOofflcahs. Tbe scream of the bagpipes
as been defined by Leigh Hunt as “ a tune tied to
a post.” When we heard the bagpipes (they are
practising already) snorting out slaughter im the
Wharf Labourer’s procession last Thursday, we
thought of the old Highland piper’s recountal of
his Edinburgh experience. “Ahl there was ae
mcht Id ne’er forget. There were 18 pipers be-
sides me in Mrs. Grass’s wee back parlour, i D Cow-
gate, an’ we were a’ playing different tunes, an’ I
list thocht I was floatin’ in heaven.”
A terrible vehicle catastrophe was averted
the other day.” So a N.S.W. up-country paper.
Its readers may or may not know that the writer
means a buggy accident did not happen, but as
is paper circulates mainly amongst the bucolic
beef-eatersofarivertown it is probable they do
not. This man would describe a cat killing a
mouse as an “exciting encounter between an
enraged feline and a terrified and desperate
rodent ; and a lightning flash as a “ raging battle
ot tbe angry elements, while ever and anon
through the sundered clouds poured charges of
the electric fluid, which illumined with a vivM
brilliancy the whole of the darkened heavens, and
away in the distance the sullen roar of the dying
thunder announced to a wondering world the fact
that God moves in a mysterious way his wonders
to perform. Jupiter Pluvius has not yet given us
of his bounty.” He would mean a thunderstorm,
and no rain. How would he describe a battle with
his mother-in-law ?
Unassuagable grief mingled with righteous
indignation has taken possession of those over-
worked labourers of State in tbe PhiJlip-street
offices. It has been customary for the young
gentlemen employed in the Works and Mines De-
partments to bring from suburban homes their
diurnal luncheons. At noon, or half-past, baskets
were opened, and the contents despatched under
cover of a friendly desk-Ud; so that by 1 o’clock
the foolscap-spoilers, like giants refreshed, were
able to sally forth and do the Block, or to have a
quiet game of pyramid pool, or transact any
little business on hand In the hour set apart '
for the mid-day meal. But last week, to !
the consternation of the small fry among
the Philllp-street Tlte Barnacles, an order was
issued, requesting gentlemen not to commence
luncheon in the office before 1 p.m. The day
following was marked by a tragic incident. One
too-sensitive youth opened his sandwich bag at
12.45 p.m., solemnly and deliberately got outside
of half-a-dozen home-made sheep’s chitterling
pies and a slab of cold plum pudding before 1
o’olook. Then he bid a tearful farewell to
his brother clerks, and, seizing his luncheon
knife, cut three inches of frayed material from
the edge of his paper collar, and started off to do
the Block as usual.
h f )+ mul^ ho . in ,_ his Romans is defacing
t ? xts > bad better Luke out. Hi
‘t'o^ 8 A D ° mai a iconoclast is on th
J° a P d 18 following his tracts. Mark what we
say, If they meet, the D.l.’s boot will open to him
Revelations such as John never experienced
»“£«wffl re - loi P e at , his downfall. His Exodus
>T2 PA ud , d e iF*. H j n P violent. We don’t say he wil
into Sheol—he wiil probably noi
f?m„i artho ? ai ? ! rom the altitude of the Poat-
P h ®°' e ,® upola back to earth again; but it is certain
worae than aTflrst! 16 latterend of that ma * will be
There is no blame attached to anyone
for my rash act except myself—a ruined young
™ a P by women.” Such is the cheerful manner°n
™ii££ 0Un S Y VU le * GOllolu ded his address to the
I r ge »h er s i a bullet into his
P 1" jP* the detail he tells us that his way of life
P ad so weakened him that he could not do in 1885
the work he did well In ’Bl. 11 X now can’t stand
one day’s work ”is a sad record of the debilitat-
ing effects of overdone dissipation. It does not
appear that Yuille had any money but what he
by bard work, so that his ease is not one
of the common ones in which young men of his
8 P °l de when the wealth left to them
relatives has been dissipated.
The money one earns generally does one good.
r«nH UB #h lly the only money bringing about suoh
T n ep i? or i y0 u, th u 8 sad fal *ure m the high-
wayman line broke his heart. It was maddening
to run the risks he did for shillings andnenef
of •^Th« < p bUt °I t'bat. This oolonial edition
of Romance of a poor young Man ” is not
as edifying as the French original.
Woman Items
rtn^iS. erican t. gi ? s earn from 400 and 600
dollars a year by type-writing and telegraphy.
In some of the American papers the vital
columns now comprise the "Births Marriages
Divorces, Deaths." Giddy people! aj?e8 ’
re^ra e f? a bi i oycli w has ust broken the
record in America. We don t wonder When a
somethin?.* 8 ° n a blcycle she ’ 8 bound ’ to break
th rThM Pl l es fr the Pa l Pit-and Fetticoats-
the three ruling powers of the dav. The first
fia 1 * 68^8 now ihd?e, the second morals, and the
last spreads considerably." ’ 1111(1 ine
'lf been unfortunate in love
raters, said a well-known theatrical. “My first
thlffrn en a convent, death robbed me of
the second, and the thtrd-is my wife."
o f old one day observed,
To steal a kiss, is not amiss,*'
B whpH= Ure sa k® deserved—
What is a kiss without a miss ?
A woman named Randolph, in America i<*
gs&ras wr rf fe SsSK
herhopes upon the^i^crustJ 6 r «ted
Tailor: "Married or unmarried?” Huh-
tomer: Married.” Tailor (to cutter! • “tina
"Eh ?* What? 1 ’ d &i! iaID ,S ot vest a ” te CuBtom o er?
-tin / wnat? Tailor (explaining)* "To hide
myself.” aD&e ’ yOU kaw 'a/nightTi’mrnamSd
AT BONDI.
VISITOR: “WHAT A PECULIAR TWANG THERE IS ABOUT THE OZONE HERE!"
WAVERLEY ALDERMAN: "OZONE BE BLOWED! THATS OUR 'SHOOT' ON THEM
THERE CLIFFS.”
0 -fS. e i l h l fJ low ? i man L in tram-ear, rising and
seat to a stout woman, who do oh not
acknowledge the civility-**
whaf *«iV? „ B^ ou * Woma n (flushing angrily)—
myseat” h&o™ (oourteously)-“For takin
y seat. Hilarity among the other passengers.
. A Victorian gentleman having seve
el . or s °ns has settled in Hobart. Here’s
ite for some of Tasmania’s “ unaoDroDriate
blessings. Parliament should offer a bonus tn
migrations of this kind. They might helntosolv
the problem: “ What shall we do with our girts ?
the lips (also dirty copies of th
oath) is strongly denounced b
medicos. Hereditary physical ills ca
easily be communicated by a touch of the llva an
kjss outside the family cirole let ii
be the cheek. Lip kisses should be reserved fo
of th“home chcl t e e . and m ° Bt Privlle * ed members
, wanted to break her husband of th
habit of drink, and began to cook his food i
!iuw+’e,k aving ' keard it would prove effectual. H
didnt say anything the first day; he showed nn
sign of noticing the change the second dav bu:-
. Bu PP® r on the third day he said to* her
in t know how you have improved
in your cookiug during the last three days.”
The latest development of feminine enter
r! ® e lu Tasmania takes the form of a female
undertaker, the only tender for the supply of
pauper coffins and funerals in Launceston beins-
from one Mrs. Doolan, a widow? As
■S3
wu! p?ib“bT/be .™e‘ftea? rkm *“ t,lp ' her *“ d “
A Viennese lady was such an ardent
admirer of Strauss’ music that she left instruc-
tions in her will that none other should be played
at her funeral, and that a ducat should be given
to @&ch performer. I’he composer wrr rippniv
nKeote* by this tribute to and person-
tVio conducted an orchestral concert at the luneral
?h h A®!< r « aIDS of the *• Blue Danube ” Ailed the air as
coffin was borne from the house, and yet they
say there is no poetry in this century. 7 7
Tho wags, of Paris, are exercising them-
?®LY eB . ® n tfl© mother-in-law question. Here
is the latest effort: X is walking out with his wifn
thank you all the same for your Intention.”
On the 6th January, Mr. Richard Hand, of
married Miss Thomson, of MarrickvJile
On the same day, at Auckland N Z.Mr W
Foot married Miss Emily “ r * W '
True type of matrimonial fetters
these “combined ”eight letters:
Tw'o men have married maidens tair.
Ana entered on the course of care—
Ihey re happy now, but understand.
they ve bound themselves both Foot and Hand
nJ^Tw A J m * Bu , r S eBB answered to the roll
ini! sll® destroying angel at Hobart, on the 6t
vJfFv * e *mved in Mew South Wales with he
wh a r *9 1802, and removed to Tasmania in 1806
where she died as above. Her father was servean
i? Utu? regiment, [so was Henniker Heaton
the issue of Mary Ann numbers throug
of her age! rati ° nS very llttle shorfc of the years
-ilfaf * fary how Tre mlBB t hee. [No, you don’t
ugh l mitati on is the sincerest mode
et a ° m , e ladies object to be flattered
® ye P sincerely. A haughty Potts Point ladv im-
wWclfsostrono^ 16 w r h B H n mantle the other day
thnt C thi°io^ on € ly took the fancy of her neighbour
The e th« e^. ed + f 01 ; a loa s « for a pattern.
xneiaa y of the mantle turned to her maid and
maker**“But Kh&M h * Br “BbratoSJ
v * Bl Jt» she added “ when it is returned you
considerably crushed?™ I*-” 1 *-” The borrower felt
attendant at church, his son and daughter
atl0 H 8 * When the Police searched
nis house they found an enormous auantitv nf
ffirv er a n ]a^ eleotro ‘P la^ ed 8:00(38 and diamond jewel-
large part of which has been traced as
having been stolen from the houses of newlv.
tn a traPA P’ Prl s? Q er attended ohuroh m erefy
t® teaco by the reading of the banns newiy-mar-
riage presents. b ° m he miffht plunder of their mar-
Pp escnts given at a fashion-
able wedding the other day was a dinner service
onmo ln 113 ' hand-painted, each piece representing
f°me scene recalling the courtship. Rather a nice
HAntod rh ltS t 0 be , h 9P e d the fair artist who pre-
fopted the service left out all the quarrel scenes
(as, of course, there never was a well-regulated
Tr TTi l whi l h W^ll< K l * plenty of these interspersed).
It might be embarrassing to the bride when the
company were viewing the presents to let them
wafin a°‘^Xf» I,y dlff ® reQt ®he looked when she
in"thi haB started business
pallid eek *V la ?‘ He P ats an d rubs the
and then Patient.until it /flows with colour,
the purnnae « 8 f°“S. ointment, presumably for
are suffKt°L fl e in fu P ink - Three operations
on ihn th® bloom of vigorous youth
thereabonfn 2?L°>w rl k 8S ? aoe# ™ maids of 40 or
line of n hi ? 8t customers. A man in his
and if ml s ht make a fortune in Sydney,
sixteen^noh o^ + on } y flnd some way of reducing
SoftSDSdotV" the Bize * N-S*w-
i - Peon’s wife in a small country town-
aspires to be society leader of
the district. Early training' not having Qualified
her for the position, she occasionally betrays her
, rB, parson bossed the arrangements and
from°t 1 hi J fetfi oluded tra< i eBmen »nd shopkeepers
vAfahff 06 , 11 * 6 ! 1 * must be aristocratic or
notnmg, yet she insisted on adding “Gentlemen’s
gloves indispensable” to the invitations The
concluded that hw forme?
associates belonged to the “great unwashed ” who
consider gloves effeminate and unnecessary.
The tone of sadness and despair which
pervades the Sydney house-beeper's advertise-
hjB ltB Parallel even In London
now-a-days. English servants are cheekv because
D h g ° to -^-aatralia; Australian servants are
cheeky because they can go to the sowing
“l3?rvantsTl) o win?fid 0 f UdonD^ TELE( >RArIS: *
wanted for a small family; cook and
’T 1 be allowed the use of piano, and
’ two nights out per week and every
sone5 one need apply unless furnished
08^ 9 ' letter only to Mrs.
H., 49, York Terrace, Regent’s Park, N.W.’’
_^ o . En Sl‘ ltld > ladies’ clubs hare so far
w r hinh d ifm^i ur^ e / Taerels a stiffness about them
disappointing. In America, how-
famnn«h?fly « ™ qu J to a ? Institution. The most
ramoiis is Ihe Sorosis in New York, which
admits none but ladies with some claim to literary
jK&r.on?S’K'l& r K“to r brSiS^
the feast was held St DelmonlSo’s-the anf >
paradise of male and female Americans it 1 n ? r
teS OU / 8 ' fmd the company had a ?ea ? . te
A Poem was written for the ocoa‘sin£°£
one of the members, and was present?? ?
Mane during the breakfast. P nt ed t
_,TJ le -Evening Snooze is intensely delighted
fch ® ,P ro PoBed cricket match for ladies T 1
nrnhthi D ?+ üblic tor the benefit of some” chkritv®
probably, It suggests, the Home of Hone
Friendless and Fallen. The “ladies ” whA rf or the
to take part in this philanthropic if uiw»th°« ole
gSfiaft s 2ssft^*Hsr
To„iir.,« B ion to the probability of members of tw
feffisstfsff ays*—
street with a black umbrella hoisted and
aferas,r ihi
R«h•>nr. 8 * ter » author of “Bootle’s
said J a few other barrack-room
Bald to bea woman. Dr. Anna Potts
MoRNTi?n > H?.^ < l ma ? 1 * The editor of the Sydney
ia is said to be a woman, but thar
“or ffiW’SK.'Sf Ir aamltt ?< i i »"<I. »U Irl.h M.P
tbeEKE?SilfbeTwS oplnton ““
woman. on our humble knees
TWH??wn 18 ioformation-please
do ?. ou take “an’s name
Kreyou ve climbed the steps of fame,
lneD, when the giddy heights you’ve won
’Twns’fhn 1 / +n at °£ U 8 ycu ’ re none ? *
ah ii.l tlmB, 4 tbough ’ since the world began.
All woman is was stol’n from man. ’
ISIwStS
: SSsHS :
heels, is singularly devoid of beauty She ifUarto®
b!d V f^? l 0 W ~ and badly finished*; * has big*bands’
toSer speeoh*?JfvlU S k!h" yot 51 «'?*“! clearness
into them whatever you like, from the minVnt
champagne glasses to the tramp 1 of armed men ?f
thoroughly f^f„Pc ssibl e» Judic succeeds in getting
ner and a thor °uslfiy lady-lfise man-
iier, ana sings her tipsy soncr amid wavph of mm
fharms t TJ I u t f OUB la f«S for
charms is that rarest thing upon the statre—«
the'world the / udl P h ? s the Prettiest mouth fn all
JJ® 3jj d, 3 b ,? sweetest, merriest smile: a pair of
g]anee dd and B^he St d eyes ever dodged a public
Holland. d “ e dum P iesfc figure this side of
w A p 1 f l o S , t , ( T eek ’ s cablegram states that Sir A.
w. Feel has been unanimously re-elected to th*
t B —'l* Oommo “'' n™temton!
WhfteVJi , ? t0 have Btartod Sir Matthew
Mr PeS and hi* in opposition to
Mr. Feel, and he would, no doubt, have had the
support of every Parnellite. The electors of the
Hexham Division of Northumberland, however
have rudely blasted Sir Matthew’s hopes by Xing
his opponent a majority of 1500. giving
0 ~ chestnut, revamped by Max
O Kell At a Conservative meeting, a man was
seen in the hall hawking about a basket of puppies
V, GOOd Couservative puppies,” he cried;
who 11 buy some good Conservative puppies ? ”
A. few days after he offered the same puppies at a
(Treat Liberal meetly. “Good Libera^ ‘ ppS, ‘
he went about crying; “who’ll buy some excel-
lent Liberal puppies ? ” “ Why, you rascal,” said
agentiemanto him. “I heard you, the other day,
.offering these as Conservative puppies; what do
lyou mean by it ? ” “Ah! true, your honour,” he
[returned; “they were blind then, but now their
•yes have been opened.”
“Reasons are plentiful as blackberries”
with those who don’t wish to serve their countrv
tor «x> a rear. •' Why don't you come
at next election?” we asked of one who “hung
are when expected to come to the front, politi-
cally. A man, when he becomes public or seeks
to become so, makes himself a mark to be shot at.
aay „ s T e of self-respect left could
submit to the ordeal of questions, inuendos and
aspersions which a candidate for Parliament has
to put up with!” “There is no ‘hole in your
ooat that can be pointed out.” “ There is a hole
in every coat, or one is made if none exist A
man’s charaeter is frittered away in such doings
and his innocent aotions are warped and miscon-
strued. Parliamentary seats are honours no
doubt; but Shakespeare tells us that honours at e
not easily obtainable, and for the game reason in
hia time as now,‘Detraction will not allow it 9 Tf
I want a seat in Parliament. I ghall L n If
or some part of Great Britain where a man'is not
so much under the microscoDe as »
Verily Hennikerlleaton has much to answer for
but ail home candidates won t have his luok. ° r ’
GOOD AS GOLD.
T^ e h r ®’® t^ le frirlwiththe smiling face,
vn w lth the witcbing eye:
T A 6 nH *\. w i th stated grace.
ADd the girl that is modest and shy;
T^ e h r e s the girl with winning air, 7 ’
rpcpi 1 ®,^, l tbata reserved and cold.
Th . er ® s the girl with curly hair,
that is rather old;
T £S r ® 8 the girl that is grand and tall,
„ t h® girl with the dimpled chin;
B yt the girl that beats them all,
is the girl that's got the tin.
A WOMAN IN IT.
about a woman’s sphere
_^ 8 though it had a .limit:
no l a P lac ® in earth or heaven,
There s not a task to mankind given.
There s not a blessing or a woe,
There s not a whisper yes or no,
8 not a Hfe, or death, or birth,
T Withmit * eather ’ s ei * ht of worth
without a woman m it.
“The Bulletin” VERsio^ XChaDBre#
"Who talks about a woman’s fear.
says it has a limit ?
ihere s not a scandal ’neath the sun
There 8 never anguish wrought through fun
no a dru nkard, scarce a thieff '
1 here s never sorrow, rarely grief.
There’s not a wedding, nor a wake
There’s not a radical, nor ’
Nor w a r, nor peace, nor gun, nor spear
May not be traced to “ woman’s sphere ”
Divorce courts ne’er had builded been
Nor trade e er done at Gretna Green
Nor army lad, nor 'lujah maid, ’
dopr afrai J,
Nor anything in earth or heaven
Nor any task to mankind given
But woman still was in it.


“ True Yum-Yum of the Fifth Avenue (N.Y.)
Company, who is very pretty, is said ]
“ to Sir Arthur Sullivan; but this
h® American yarn, and doesn t count
fO mhft C Bf>urko people have hit on a plan to
Tbe Jr Moriarty. head of the N.S.W. water sup-
roU!?oJfartment. They have instructed their town
p!y £ e t p n have ft number of circular letters printed,
cle moff for professional counsel and report
caflieff, water supply. One of these is to be
upo »Jdedevery day to Mr. Moriarty until that
eentlenmn deigns to reply.
a Tf Sims, writing in the Refebbe, ex-
on opinion that the present Lord Mayor of
would prove the best, the noblest, the
Competent old anomaly that ever-swilled
mO SL soup. We marvelled to find such a pro-
rfd friend of the poor as Sims beslavering a
whose chief mission is to mis-apply
funds of a moribund corporation,
the bum of the bag . Ttie father of G. It.
girnS bP B been appointed “deputy” to the new
So It! Ye Cripples.
Lord Mayor. Ye gods I what a billet. Deputy to
a Lord Mayor. We suppose that means taking his
lordship’s knife and fork every time he retires
jrom the table to be unwell.
“Editor Bulletin —Sir—Have you any
idea why it is that that grand old document, the
“ Declaration of Independence,’ is so persistently
stowed away in a dark comer of the N S.W. Art
Gallery ? Visitors to that institution (particularly
the rising generation) would receive more manly,
ennobling ideas irom a perusal of that harbinger
of liberty, if it were placed in a position to be
(Seen, than could be imparted by all the Carington
Captive ’ pictures which could be plied into the
building.—J. F., Sydney.”
The first time Coventry Patmore, the
noet, went to call on him, Leigh Hunt kept him
■waiting no less than three hours, and his caller,
toy that time might well have become disgusted,
not only with Runt, but with the universal frame
of things. Nevertheless, when at length Hunt
•airily entered, attired In a most alluring costume,
ithe first thin* he said was—” What a beautiful
world this is, Mr. Patmore!” The latter, by the
way, had a brother, Gurney Patmore (aow dead),
who once edited a newspaper in Portland,
VIM PIN MONEY.
The pin picked up by patient Pope
Now turns him tn (for facts we grope)
Ten thousand sovereigns yearly.
Why this result? To us ’tis dim,
We want a word or two from him
To make it read more clearly.
If ’stead of one he’d picked up twain
Would doubled be his annual gain ?
If so, and here’s the racket,
How many billions would he own?
Or where have raised the Papal Throne
Had he picked up a packet ?
He had died in the night, and was only
partially resusicitated in the morning, and as the
only nourishment of which the corpse was
capable of partaking was very good old brandy
neat, and as the assets of the house consisted of
threepence in coppers and an aluminium watch-
chain, the prospect looked anything hut re-
assuring. "Send for the doctor,” he faintly
moaned. The medico came and questioned the
patient, who professed symptoms of cardiao dis-
ease, pleurisy, softening of the brain, kidney
ailment, and a few more trifles of the same de-
scription. “Why,” said the astounded physician,
“ yours is a most extraordinary and interesting
case.” The eyes of the dying one lightened up as
he feebly whispered—” Lend us ten bob, and you
can have a body for a suojeot. It’ll ba very inter-
esting.” No deal.
The Mudgee Independent regret® that an
appeal made by it to the people of the diitrlct to
come to the front last Hospital Sunday has only
resulted la one sub. being sent in, “from ihe
smallest and poorest of the Churches.” Precisely;
just what might have been expected. The
independent surely never could have imagined
that the riche: kind of Gospel shops would pay
much attention to an appeal merely to benefit
poor siek folk at home, although the Master they
profess to serve certainly spoke very strongly in
favor of aseis iug ihat particu ar c'ass of moiety.
Now, if t ,e appeal nad been lor another Patr
no, Idiotic Fund, how the cheques wjiuid have
rolled in, and cheap advertisements thus secured,
to say nothing of the off-chance of catching some
of the stars and decorations and seats in the
Hupper ’Ouse which would be flying around.
It was in a ooffee-stall in George-street,
Sydney, and the conversation turned on the Pall
Mm, Gazette articles. “ Well, gentlemen, said
a merchant of unimpeachable integrity. Stead
may or may not have been guided by pu>.6jt
motives -I know naught of that which prompted
him. The Maiden Tribute of Modern Babylon, may
be but nis maiden tribute to modern suscepti-
bility; bit let me tell you what happened tome
to-day. I was going up King-street and, passing
the prettiest, most graceful, innocent little dear
you ever saw, I patted her and chucked her under
the chin. The man with whom she wis then led
forward another equally interesting, and offered
me the two for £l5. I, of course, refused-—.
“Good Heavens! And this in Sydney? In
Sydney, my friend.” “On your word? On my
word.” “ And you, a man of your position, took
no steps to have him at once arrested ? *My
dear sir, it was none of my business. None of
your business I Is it possible that ionocent girls
are to be offered for sale ” “Girls I Whos
talking about children? I said deer -fawns, you
know.” And then each gentleman recollected an
engagement up town.
An unfortunate accident happened in
throwing the hammer at tne Caledonian sports at
Timaru, N Z. It slipped irom Murphy's hand,
went into the centre of the crowd, and struck one
John Lewis on the right temple, crushing it in,
*nd, of .course, rendering him insensible. He was
conveyed to the hospital, where part of the bone
was extracted. Little hopes are entertained of his
reoovery.
The road to patent-medicine fortune is
strewn with wrec&s. Probably in no other indus-
try has so much money been squandered. A re-
cent writer sajs that ‘‘not one article in a thous-
and succeeds, even when backed by generous
capital,” and one of the proprietors vrites:
Within the last 20 years not a single medical pre-
paration has been put upon the market, hacked by
however muca of capital and experience, or how-
ever excellent the preparation, that has yet
escaped from the limbo of uncertainty, and can
fairly be pronounced a success.” To succeed, a
“ proprietary ” medicine must be what it is adver-
tised to be. All the “ proprietary ” mixtures that
have been successful have been genuine remedies,
perfected by years of study. Many are com-
pounded from prescriptions by eminent, doctors,
and have been proved by experience. They have
ministered to a pressing need. They have filled a
v icant place. Many mixtures of undoubted effi-
ciency have failed because their places were
already filled by tried favourites. Borne have
been unsuccessful, no one knows why—fate
has been against them. And an enormous
number have failed from insufficient adver-
tising. Testimonials have done good work,
especially from persons of title. An English
quack made a contract with an impoverished
nobleman named the Earl of Aldborough that for
£6OO a year, the earl was to be afflicted with wbat-
ever diseases his patron chose, and to certify that
he had bean cured by his auack nostrum. The
contract was faithfully carried out for years. The
earl lived in ease in Sicily, and the quack made a
fortune in London. Each year the world said to
his wife, “Look hero, the Etrl.of Aldborough
writes from his retirement in Sicily, that John
Smith's specific is a perfect cure for rheumatism.
I must try it—an eari wuuldn t lie.” So the medi-
ciae flourished. When Mrs. Langtry arr.ved in
New York she observed, artlessly, that ic was easy
to make money in toe United States. Only a few
days after her arrival, sue was paid £l6O for signing
her name to a testimonial on behalf of a soap for
the complexion.
Know ye all men tbat Wolfe's Schnapps has
no rival as a stimulant.
The numberless appeals to the eye, ear,
and understanding:, in boslness, recreation, and
social circles, are not always seen, heard, or under-
stood, and to both the former and latter we tlnd
several leading houees continually introducing
novelties from all parts or the world. In no one
line of business do you find a larger choice in
china, glase, and earthenwa»-p, than at the old-
cstaolisned shops of Bray Brohers, 403 and 404
George-' treet, near King-street *


PEPPER AND SALT.
Great excitement has been occasioned by
the disappearance of Constable Ryan, who has
been stationed near Sandhurst (Vic.) for the last 30
years, l'he people have turned out to look for him.
The same feeling of excitement is occasioned in
Sydney by the appearance of a policeman in any
except the main streets. The people all turn out
to look at him. There is nothing wonderful in
Ryan doing the disappearing trick; any “trap”
can do that. If he doesn’t turn up this side the
cemetery, his friends will find him keeping a pub.
in the Hereafter. Hand down the harp:—
Con. Ryan, are ye losht ?
Or only schamin’—
Ye’ve not the river crosht,
That's golden glamin.
Ye’re lost, they say and weep,
They’re idly sarchin’
A pub. a trap must keep,
Ere heav’nward marobin’.
We’ll drink no sorry oup
Till pub. he’s taken,
Then Coil, may “ sling it up,”
We’ll ’tend the wakin’.
Soft and slow, let musio flow, rippling, rustling,
soft and low,
O’er the hired girl’s auburn head, under Tommy’s
truckle bed, up the chimney let it go, soft and
low and low.
Rarely doth a peeler die till he’s kept a pub., and
why ? Lambs the boozere down you know,
soft and low soft and low.
Twang the harp, let music sail, strike the tin-tank
with the flail; yelp, my .’children, let it flow:
never mind ’em, let it go;
For a peeler on the beat has been seen in our back
street. Not for weeks has this been so; shout,
my children, shout halloa;
That’s why we should make a noise. Rise it,
children; howl, my boys; round like witches
let us go; howl, boys; “Joseph,” call out
“ Joe.”
Folks in Sandhurst, dry your tears; we’ve your
peeler, calm your fears—saw one here to-day,
you know, slowly walking—very slow.
But a fight just then broke out, such a riot, such
a shout, soon we saw that peeler go. Was he
slow ? Not much—oh, no!
Down the street he ran with speed, caught a ’bus
but missed the deed. Was the woman killed ?
Oh, no—nearly so, though; nearly so.
Must have gone to Sandhurst, ©h ? Skipped back I
overland, we say; won’t be killed in fight, you
know. Not that sort ? You bet, oh no.
But we’d like to see a trap once a month or so
mayhap, when they’re nothing else to do.
Wouldn’t you, now, wouldn’t you ?
Not way down in “ George’s ” street, fifty yards
to every beat, but in back streets let them go-
pacing slowly, pacing slow.
Now our song to-night is done: we’ve enjoyed us,
had some fun, gave the neighbours hul’baloo,
hull-a-ballo, hul’bloo.
Ghost of Sandhurst, stop your noise I Underneath
the blankets, boys. Skip, Joe, while I’m count-
ing four. There’s a peeler at the door.
m • *
AH English exchange says “F. Aroher,
the jockey, was effusively oheered as soon as the
crowd saw him in a private box at the London
pavilion recently.” Effusively cheered I Why,
that’s all they do for the Governor here, and a
heap more than they did for the last. Sydney
toadies will have to enthuse in some new way
unless they want Carington to sit behind Aroher.
Thunder I why didn’t they send Archer out as
Governor of N.S.W.? Any man can govern “ the
Mother Colony of the Australias,” so long as he
owns horses. Any jockey could do all the govern-
ing we want. Any horse could do it, in fact. We
even believe it could be done by any donkey.
* * *
The Shoalhaven News states that Mr. E.
De Mejtre, the well-known sportsman, has deoided
“ to dispose of the whole of his farm and stud in
April next, including 60 mares and several sires.’*
Most racing men’s stud farms do include, amongst
the other impedimenta of jockeys and trainers, a
few mares and sires. Whoop I Pegasus:—
That par. from Shoalhaven
On mem’ry is graven,
’Tia the best kind of ad. friefld De Mestre could
get—
He’s selling his stud off,
He shakes racing's mud off,
But the “scent of the stable” must cling to him
yet.
We think of his racing,
We see his nags pacing;
No weeds in his stables, all “figs” none were
“tares,”
Now, learn from the News man,
A kind of diffuse man,
He inoludes in his stud a few horses and mares!
We are glad that the News man the fact boldly
notes,
Else we’d thought perhaps the stud was of donkeys
or goats.
* * *
There is one young doctor in Melbourne
between whom and the Board of Health there is
no love lost. He was summoned the other day for
a paltry sum of 505., owed to his wine merchant.
A distress warrant was issued, which was returned
with the grim sarcasm in Latin that the young
Esculapius was, from a financial point ef view t
“nogood.” The Bench thereupon ordered the
amount to be paid forthwith, otherwise a promis-
ing physician would spend seven days without
being able to read the obituary column in the
newspapers. The ordinary mind would fancy
that he should have been able to borrow the
amount of the bill from the nearest undertaker,
with the agreement that the latter should not be
forgotten when he (the doctor) got his next case.
But the f aot is that ooffin constructors put no trust
in young doctors. The reason of this is that young
doctors—unless they are very long-headed indeed-
enter upon their profession with too much enthu-
siasm They wish to save the lives of all
their patients, instead of allowing a sufficient
number to pass away to the better land
to allow a margin for the men in black. The
latter, therefore, will have nothing to say to them
till they begin to get experience, and learn upon
which side their bread is buttered. They all learn
this sooner or later. In the meantime they are
frequently summoned by vulgar tradesmen. By.
the-way, Melbourne is stiff with hungry young
healers at the present time, all of whom are as
eager on the the track of a oase of whooping-cough
or measles as a threebalfpence-a-line man on the
Gifted Winter is after a fire or a fatal accident.
And a small army of medical students is being
drilled in the University to swoop down like a flock
of cormorants—there is some confusion of meta-
phor and simile here, but we were never very par-
ticular—on the devoted city. What they will all
do unless an epidemic or plague of some kind is
sent to their deliverance, the Lord only knows.
Some may be able to maintain themselves in
modest luxury, and study the results of their pro-
fession at the same time by taking to gravedigging,
but the majority will in all apparent likelihood
have to go forth and break stones or lump coal on
the wharves in times of strike. It is a melancholy
fact for beginners in medicine to have to face, but
there it is—people will not get sick, or if they do
they send for old stagers in the profession or
doctor themselves with “ herribs ” and whisky.
We were speaking the other day to a medical
gentleman who had come out from England with
the most irreproachable of diplomas and the finest
of clothes to make his fortune In the colonies. He
settled in one of the most fashionable suburbs of
Melbourne, took a neat house in a good street, had
his name engraved on a brass door-plate, and sat
down to wait for a rush of business. “ And did it
coma?” we enquired. “Cornel” he replied; “I
was there two months before I got a call.” “ But
ADVERTISEMENT: Wanted by a lady a little girl who, in consideration of certain dis-
creet services rendered, shall be accommodated with comfor table quarters on
the ground floor.
[OUR LITTLE PUZZLE: FIND THE LITTLE GIRL.]
you got it at last,” we said, sympathisingly. "Yes,
I got it—oh, I got it without a doubt,” he re-
marked, with bitter irony. ‘‘ And what was the
oase?” we asked, “What do you think?” he
roared; “by heavens, sir, it was to prescribe for a
sick goat I”
♦ v *
“It was the greatest pride of his life to
think that he owed his present position to the
integrity and industry of an ancestor, who had
risen from the ranks.”—Carington to the wharf
labourers.
If any man more than another now on the
surface of this gloomy globe should have been
born In the Bronze Age that man is Mr. Justice
Kerferd, of Victoria. Even the Conservative
papers of Melbourne have been compelled to
describe his appointment as a “ political job.”
Does he hide his head on this account ? There was
a banquet given to the Governor at Beeohworth a
short time ago, at which Mr. Justice Kerferd was
present. His health was drunk, and, in replying,
he said that “he had been connected with the
Ovens district for a period of 31 years, and he
trusted that experience in the full blaze of public
opinion might be taken as some indication of his
fitness for the office he had accepted by force of
circumstances.” This is not mere effrontery—it is
calm, impassive, Titanie disregard of facts. Mr.
Kerferd, when he spoke about “ the blaze of pub-
lic opinion ” should have said “ the blaze of the
bar-room.” He was once a brewer—and in
Beeohworth, too. It is not every retired brewer
who can so confidently appeal to his former cus-
tomers as to their opinion of his merits—that is to
say, of his beer. But why he should imagine that
because his beer was good they should take it as
indication of " his fitness for the office he had ac-
cepted by force of circumstances ”—the office of
judge at £3OOO a-year—will probably never be
known till the tomb gives up his illustrious bones
on Judgment Day, if it will then.
* m *
Makers of books read this and laugh.
Writers of books read this and die. It was in the
grey dawn of the morning. The eastern sky began
to fiush a warm red at the coming splendour of
the sun. Aurora—the beautiful, the immortal—
once more drove her chariot across the sky, her
rosy nymphs floating around her, even as in the
glorious picture of Guido. At this hushed and
solemn time a man came out of the Fitzroy
Gardens, Melbourne. He glanced for a moment
at the East up whioh the great sun-god drove hie
steeds upon a path of Are. What were the thoughts
of this man as he gazed at that magnificent spec-
tacle, old as creation, yet ever new? Did he
softly murmur to himself that noble line of
Tennyson’s—
“ God made in heaven an awful rose of dawn,”
or did he satisfy himself with contemplating its
majesty in reverent silence ? The hard truth
oompels us to say he did neither of these things.
He merely muttered to himself, “ It’s safe enough.
They won’t be up for another two hours yet.”
Five minutes after he might have been Seen shin-
ning up a verandah post of Don Juan House,
the abode of Mr. Joe Thompson, the friend of
Ruskin and Carlyle and the pet lamb of the
Melbourne Presbytery. “Mr. Thompson,” says
the graphio paragraphfst from whom we get the
kernel of this little episode, “ on retiring to rest,
threw his garments on the food of his bed, but
failed, in accordance with his usual custom, to
take the money out and plaoe it under his pillow.”
This might have been unfortunate for Mr. Thomp-
son, but it meant special interposition of Provi-
dence to the man who came up by the verandah
post. He clutched the clothes, and disappeared
over the balcony like a shadow. What was his
reward? The graphic paragraphist ourtly says,
“In the pockets of the clothes was about £100.”
Think of the majestic carelessness whioh could
carry around one hundred pounds—two thousand
shillings—the price of four thousand drinks at
sixpence—of eight thousand at three pence—all
day, and then sling it recklessly at the foot of the
bed at night I This is the feature of the affair
which makes us say that bookmakers should read
it and laugh, and book writers should read it and
die. We remember well the last time a
burglar broke into our dwelling. He could
have walked in if he had chosen, for the
front door was fastened with string, and the
back door was off its hinges. However, we suppose,
even if he had noticed these things, he would have
closed his eyes to them and—for he turned out to
be a conscientious burglar—broken in in the
orthodox way. Anyhow, he came in. We were in
bed, but awake, and we watched his proceedings
with a smile of unalloyed glee. He took our
garments up from the floor, gave them a shake
without raising the ghost of a jingle, and threw
them down with a sigh. Then he looked into the
safe In the kitchen, and as he did so we fancied we
could hear him sob. He returned with a light
tread into our bedroom, and softly deposited a
shilling on the chair beside us. “It will get him a
drink or two in the morning—poor devil I” he
murmured, and, closing the door after him,
quietly departed. The next day he sent us his
compliments with a bag of potatoes, a shoulder of
mutton, and a half-dozen of bottled beer. These
presents were accompanied by a polite note
written In very pure, not to say fasti-
dious, English, intimating that a set of
house-breaking tools were at our service whenever
we chose to send for them, and hinting—very deli-
cately indeed—that he would initiate us into the
mysteries of the profession at any time we chose,
without charging us the usual premium. It was
a most gentlemanly offer, but we were compelled
to decline it. There was too much Dight-work
necessary, and our constitution had never
thoroughly recovered from the shattering we gave
it when we were in the ibody-snatohiDg business.
We have of ten regretted refusing this offer since—
all the more as our generous friend will not have
the opportunity to repeat it for another seven
years or so, having been persuaded to spend that
period In Berrima. But we can always turn to
politics—now that our jaynil friend Dan is in
office—when writing for newspapers has suffi-
ciently blunted oiir sensibilities, deadened our
conscience, and wrecked our constitution. To
wind up, the moral of this little story is that the
early burglar catches ttao bookmaker.
* * *
A hallelujah lass, over whose glorified
head the sum of 64 summers have shone, testified
at a meeting last week that “ she had read her
flible through, and what she could not under-
stand she believed.” She does not say whether
she believes what she does understand. Let us
whack the spirit-stirring drum:—
She has got religion solid,
That fair ancient maiden stolid—
She believes in what she cannot understand,
After Satan’s patient waiting,
Down the narrow way she’s ekatlng,
And banging on the cymbals with the band.
She’s resolved to take the chances;
O’er her backward way she glances,
And sees Bhe has the best part of her fun,
So she hedges now on sinning,
With a double chance of winning,
And she’s bound to come ‘‘ahead of it on one.”
• <e t,
The railway officials in New Zealand are
real smart. A Maori lady took a cheap ticket
from Fielding to Halcombe. She was alive when
she took the ticket, but before arriving at her
destination the unlucky lady was—as the parsons
put it—“no more.” When the train pulled up at
Halcombe, there was trouble; the ticket collector
wouldn’t pass the corpse unless she paid the excess
rate for being a dead ’un. “Did she book as a
body ?” said the guard. The other Maori ladies
were bound to admit that deceased had never pre-
pared for emergencies. “ I can’t let her through
the barrier on this ticket,” said the guard. Alto-
gether it was a nice point, but it was finally decided
that anyone who buys a railway ticket as a live
un is entitled to die on the journey without
paying extra. Evidently, though, the New
ZaalaDders are keen business people. We have
seen more than one fatal case of heart disease
brought out of a railway carriage at a London
terminus without any difficulty being made. The
officials were so indifferent to the Company’s in-
terest that they never asked the deceased for any
tioket at all. By the way, speaking of that, we re-
member a gentleman being assisted out of a first-
class compartment at Waterloo. He was evidently
dead, but the porters thoughtfully propped him
up in a chair on the platform and attempted to re-
vive the poor gentleman. A gruesome spectacle
it was. But we were unregenerate in those days,
and kept frivolous company. An Irreverent vil-
lain at our elbew whispered that the limp figure
In the ohair looked “ like Henry Irving in the last
scene of ‘ The Bells.’ ” The wicked suggestion was
a grand tribute to the great actor's peculiar art of
depioting death.
* * *
Mr. Booth, the Grand Panjandrum of the
Harmy in Australis, made this statement in one
of his addresses delivered lately“ Alcohol is no
respector of persons, It will knock down a bishop
as quiokly as a chimney-sweep.” Setting aside
the irreverence of the remark, it shows that Mr.
Booth knows exceedingly little about bishops.
Why, the average bishop would—if he choose to
lay himself out for the business-be just in the
middle of the fun and able to go and preach a
better sermon than ever he did, when the average
chimney-sweep would be getting the usual 24
hours’ for having been found with his head under
a footbridge and his feet in the gutter. The rela.
tive cubic capacities of each is to be considered.
Two ordinary chimney-sweeps might b 8 packed
Inside an ordinary bishop without swelling him if
he had lived as well ss the traditions of his office
demanded. We reckon a bishop, if he liked to
try, could stand up to the aeok in a pile of bottles
he had emptied into himself and still call for
another case.
* * *
The recent spell of hot weather has been
exceptionally trying to the Melbourne public.
Many little pleasure trips were marred by the
state of the weather. There was the seeond fire at
Jones’ bonded store, for Instance. That broke out
A COMFORTABLE RETROSTECT.
All ye who earn your dally bread
By the sweat of your manly brows,
Mark well the words his Lordship said,
And keep willing hands at your ploughs;
If e’er disposed to turn aside
Feeling tempted vour labours to shirk,
Remember, ’tis his Lordship’s pride
That his grandfather used to work.
Let that inspire with strength anew
The frame that is wearied and bent,
And whatsoe’er there is to do,
Why just do it and rest content;
Born ruleis now no more deride,
But pray for their welfare in kirk,
For some can say with honest pride
That their grandfathers used to work.


afternoon wbioh was more than aultry.
oD a ? 0 who might have fairly expected to enjoy a
P eopl . ba if.hour at the conflagration, found the
pleaB wnost overpowering. Some, in fact, thought
SUna s t t 0 contemplate the rising amoke and
w {rom the shady, distant retreat of the office,
flaI ? over ventured out at all. The Age reporter
tro. though. It was a severe trial. In his
t s he mentioned plaintively that “ the heat
D ° te the sun was most intense and added greatly
fr °the discomfort of those who poured out of the
tP t 0 witness the tremendous fire.” Poor man!
hra is force in his complaint. Reporters don’t
Mire sun when there is a good fire buruiDg.
thißgs always seem to go awry, somehow. At
ecutions, where a nice bright sun is required to
eX up the criminal to the best advantage, how
f uently do we find that a steady drizzle makes
things “extremely uncomfortable for the few
persons assembled in the prison yard.”
p * * *
Charles Bradlaugh was duly sworn in.—
(Cablegram.)
He’s in 1 Ah, the bigots may fret
And gaze at the ceiling aghast;
One more holy “ fad ” is upset—
Bight’s making some headway at last:
Let society lift up its voice
In impotent anger and scorn,
But the people can boldly rejoice—
Bradlaugh is sworn.
At lastl after fighting in vain
Cant, prejudice, envy, and spite—
After failing again and again,
Sweet victory comes to requite
The object of orthodox hate,
The cursed of broadcloth and lawn.
He wins who has pluck and can wait—
Bradlaugh is sworn,
* • *
As humble admirers of civic dignitaries, it
warms the very cockles of our heart to mention
that they are about to give yet one more proof of
their public spirit. A little bird whispers that, on
the occasion of our Gracious Sovereign Lady
Queen Victoria’s jubilee, petitions will be for-
warded to Windsor Castle from the Corporations
of Sydney and Melbourne praying that the ohief
magistrates (Heaven bless ’em) “ may assume the
title of Lord Mayor, the same as the Mayors of
London, York, and Dublin.” Directly the rumour
reached this office we sent round to the Corpora-
tion to solicit the favour of signing our cross to
that petition. We wished to sign on behalf of the
Australian people. Our request was declined with
contumely. They only wanted the signatures of
aldermen. No matter. This rebuff shall not pre-
vent us from singing to the Australian people:—
Good gracious I turn your heads away, we cannot
help but swear,
To think that our ohief magistrate is merely Mr.
Mayor,
While the citizens of London, York, and Dublin
do accord
To aldermen who "rule the roost” the title of " My
Lord.”
Shall this enlightened country bow in silence, and
submit
To suoh a degradation? O, confound it I Deuce
a bit I
Shall a people who in England’s cause have volun-
teered to fight
A horde of goats and Arabs longer suffer such a
slight?
No, no; the times are altered—we are not what
we have been;
We used to be contented with a country and a
Queen.
But since our minds expanded, we are breathing
mighty prayers
For new and fresh distinctions—namely, titles for
our mayors.
Speak out, O fellow citizens I the moment is at
hand;
All hail! the reign of grovel in this happy
Southern land.
We fought and bled for England; it were but a
just reward,
If one, at least, among us be promoted to My
Lord.
Bring forth new mayoral garments for our Jen-
kins, Jones, or Brown,
And (if the Q ueen will let us) stipk his head inside
a crown;
Then hand him up some turtle soup, a jewelled
handled sword,
And bend the knee before him, and address him as
“ My Lord.”
* * *
It was a touohing scene. The gloomy day
flung raindrops the size of shillings, and now and
again whoppers as big as eighteenpence, against
the windows of the wide high room, in an alcove
of whioh King Alfonso of Spain lay on his dying
bed. The physicians no longer concealed that the
end was fast approaching. Some in the room
dropped on the rich pile carpet tears nearly as big
as the shilling wets dashing againt the glass f
while 13 or 14 others, whose venerable faces and
stately forms told of the gallant Don Juan vic-
tories of 30 years ago, emptied out great big
saucer-like globules that brought the average tear
fully up to the size of Is. lid. Gloomy as was the
day, it was still gloomier in the royal sick-
room. Wiping his eyes with the tall of his
soutan, Cardinal Benarides detached himself
from the cohort of wallers, and entered
the alcove. For a while there was sobbing
without, sobbing within, and then the alternation
of whisper with whisper. It was known that the
King was making his confession. "HowlODg,”
sobbed the Queen mother to one of the physicians,
“ did you say he would live ?” Only a few
minutes,” replied the reverential phial. The
Queen mother thereupon entered the alcove and
whispered in the Cardinal’s ear, " Get him to con-
dec se, Cardinal, or his soul will sooot. If he die un-
shriven, he will never meet me or the other mem-
bers of his family ’tother side of rainbows. He's
my son, and if he must particularise he’ll never
live to get through.” The Cardinal was a practi-
cal man, and although it went against his grain to
save a soul except on the usual terms, he assented
here, and took the confession by sample. Not a
minute too soon. The king’s soul made a plunge.
The alcove was now penetrated by the cohort of
wailers. Tears went up as high as os. The poor
wife clung to th 6 bGdy in the bed, the
poor children cried aloud. But the speolai
grief that history should take note of, and
which the death-bed of the tramp and the
beggar is almost always without, was introduced
by Isabella, the Queen mother, laying her hands
on the king’s neck, and saying, ‘‘My son, my
son!” The King opened his livid parched lips,
and answered, “ Father, Father I” The It stately
forms, with the facial lineaments of Don Juan,
hearing Alfonso's murmur, in a passionate
outburst of uncontrollable affection flung
themselves on the bed, and embracing the
young man, said, “Bon, son, we are here; we
are here!” We said it was a touching scene.
Leave out the natural accompaniments of all suoh
sad occasions, and oonjure up a vision of the Car-
dinal dancing around in a cyclone of maledictions,
of Queen Isabella olothed with confusion as with
a mantle, and of 14 venerable courtiers winding
28 long arms around the neck and shoulders of
Spain’s dead monarch, each under the impression
that he was wanted I
A Southern correspondent writes:—“l
went last week to take a passage to Tasmania for
self and three others. The agents for the Pateena
and the Flinders were a long time filling up the
printed forms of reoeipt for the passage money.
When handed to me, the reason why was soon
seen. Eight lines, closely written, told me that the
tioket was Issued subject to the vessel being able
to go, as also that I must not expect to be brought
back as a matter of right. That everything de-
pended upon what the next week might bring
forth, and that the agents would hold themselves
liable for nothing beyond the return of the money.
The next day the seamen had all struck, and the
wisdom of the proviso was well justified. My wife
and daughters consider it as a ‘ mean thing ’ to
be thus cone out of their intended summer out-
ing, and the strikers get no sympathy from them.”
Writes a correspondent Gloomy in-
deed, in all senses, is the outlook in Melbourne
just now. With |the wharf-labourers’ strike and
the seamen’s ditto there is an unpleasant prospect
of a short supply of coals. The want of Newcastle
produce means no gas. Kerosene might be sub-
stituted if the whole stock had not been cleared
off by the two fires at Jones' storage yards. The
want of coals means stoppage to all railways and
engine work, and of all gas engines and steam
engines. Such want means also the stoppage of
newspapers and the throwing out of employ of
some hundred of thousands of people. We are, for
the future, evidently to be under the dominion of
a power as well organised as Mr. Parnell’s. The
Trades Unions of all the colonies act together,
and act promptly too. Talk of Federation? Why
the colonies are already federated when their
working men act as they have done in this case.”
The homeward-bound are filling up the
mail-boats. No cabin iB to be had at Melbourne in
the P. and O. line earlier than in the Sutlej, which
does not leave before April. Mr. Bosisto, the
M.L.A. for Richmond (Vic), and formerly its lead-
ing chemist, seems to have supplanted George
Collins Levey in the Exhibition business. He acted
as Victorian agent in the Calcutta business, and
now goes to England in a similar capacity for the
Colonial show, to be held there this summer.
Whether he will be knighted, or that honor be
given to Victoria’s nresent Agent, or its coming
one, is just the question. Mr. Murray Smith is
supposed to be tarrying in England to get the ex-
pected honour at the opening of the show which Mr.
Graham Berry equally expects to get at the close
of it. The coolness of Mr. Murray Smith is con-
spicuous. Though he might have a chance of the
Premiership if he returned at onoe it is not good
enough to tempt him. He intimates his willing-
ness to enter Parliament only if he can be returned
unopposed and without expense I His agent has
got his nomination paper, and the question is—
What will he do with it ?
Here is something for oolonial Jingoes—
who hope for Anglo-Saxon federation on an Im-
perialistic basis to chew over. The B.F. Argo-
naut, one of the most Conservative and cet tainly
one of the friendliest to England among American
periodicals, thus precasts—we think, accurately—
the near political future of Great Britain ....
•• L»st election, with its newly enfranchised voters,
was but the preliminary contest in the skirmish
line of what is destined to be a long struggle, and,
when ended, a decisive victory for Republican
ideas. Widening the franchise was, for the Royal
Family and its prerogatives, for the Church of
England and its privileges, for the nobility and its
pretensions, for estated gentlemen and their
tenures of landed property, for all classes in the
enjoyment of special privileges, and for those who
favour laws of primogeniture and entail, a great
mistake. It is the beginning of changes whicn the
industrial, commercial, ana labour classes will
alone regard as reforms. It is the beginning of a
revolution which will never go backward. It is a
concession to demands that will never oease, and
to agitations whioh will never end, uotil England
becomes in all essential principals a Republic.
Gladstone will die, and the fiery Chamberlain will
take his place. There are elements in the Liberal
party and in the Home Rule party that will
unite, because of their affinities. Whenever
England, Ireland, and Scotland shall have given
the elective privilege to all male citizens over 31
years of age, and clothed them with authority to
make and execute the laws and eleot the judges,
it will be a very short step to practical agrarian-
ism, to a division of property upon the principle of
ownership suggested by Henry George. When
every white male of the age of 21 years can vote in
England, and it is coming to that most rapidly, the
Boyal family and Queen or King will be set aside,
Crown and Church property confiscated, the House
of Lords abolished—perhaps replaced by a Senate
—the laws of primogeniture and entail be re-
pealed, and these will be but the first and pre-
imiuary concessions of a oonservaiism which in a
short time will have more extreme measures de-
manded of it. When English voters who have
nothing are in majority over those who have some-
thing, they will devise measures for partition.
The vast accumulated wealth of England is
a temptation which a voting proletarian class
will not attempt to resist, and when that
time comes, and it is apparently fast coming,
demagogues will stir the passions of its voters to
demand increased wages, shorter hours for labour,
declare that land is a common inheritance, and
prosperity is theft. Perhaps the future Lord
Macaulay will turn his attention to the possible
dangers that beset his country and threaten its
dissolution, and postpone the prophecy of the
earlier destruction of the laws and government of
the United Btates. It is possible that the traveller
from New Zealand, having perched himself upon
the ruined arches of London Bridge to contem-
plate the surrounding desolation of a dismem-
bered empire, will then cross the Atlantic, where
he may be comfortably transported over the
New York and Brooklyn bridge, seated in a steam
cable-car. The possibilities of future political
calamities within the island empire will, we think,
ustify its politicians, lecturers, writers, and
jpurnaiists in giving more attention to their own
affairs and less to ours from this time forth.'* Yes,
the British Bepublio will come with universal
suffrage. Which is the next big thing the Badi-
cals wl 1 demand.
Camp Fite Musings.
Part I.
When by my flickering: fire I weary sit,
The day’s work ended, and a respite given
Till morning s light to sudden rising hopes;
Rising, alasl hut to be beaten down
By the unkindly tale the “ prospect tells,
(Forhopes delusive are the miner’s life.)
As flame-jets leaping from the boxwood logs
Call forth from darkness and display to view
The moaning shyack and the white-stemmd gum
(The giant sentries of my lonely camp),
80 memory burns her faithful light, to draw
From out the darkness of the gloomy past,
The form which it was once my joy to see,
In all the clearness of the passing hour.
Ah I Linda was the bright and peerless gem
Of all who used to glad the days long past.
Though there were many others richly dowered
With ample gift of beauty, yet she rose
Above them all, as does the lofty box
O ertop those trees, whioh, stately when alone,
Seem but as shrubs when they grow close beside
This giant of the forest.
Yet she seemed
Unconscious of her beauty; nor believed
That she had power to sway the minds of men,
And hold them fast in silken bonds, thrice blest.
Until the fancy-fashioned links gave way,
And left the thrall in anguish when ho felt
His wretched freedom.
For as one confined
Longtime within a cell, from whioh each ray
Of light is close excluded, feels no hurt
Whilst total darkness meets hisstaring eyes;
But when led forth starts back in new-born pain,
As first the light strikes on his dazzled sight;—
80 men may rest in quietness and peace.
While they are in deep mental darkness wrapped
By Venus round her votaries; but this veil
Withdrawn, they start to see the light which
beams
From stern Reality’s too brilliant sun.
Then vanish all the shapes whioh Rapture formed
To fill the void whioh knew not Reason’s ray;
Then vanish the delusions, and high hopes
Which made that oell a hall of happiness,
A paradise, which kings with hearts enslaved
By grasping avarice and lust of power—
Kings, who but hold their love, as though it were
A gilded bauble, by the people given,
To purchase for the nation heirs and peace—
Can never tenant.
But I would return
To that point where this long digression left
The sphere of reminiscence; and again
See Linda, as I once could see her, stand,
In pure majestic beauty, while she dressed
Some simple ballad in her sweetest tones;
Her voice investing every word and thought
With added beauty, until then unknown.
And so imprinting on my soul the strain,
That even now those old song-words restore
To me.the full remembrance of the voice
That ever echoes through my aohing heart.
Ah 1 she was beautiful 1 Her fair hair fell
In rippling cascades, or was close confined
In one bright shimmering Lacasnean knot;
Her oheek, in colour, as a fleecy cloud
Kissed by the ardent sun when first he leaps
Upon his fiery oar to course the sky;
And from her face outshone the glowing light
That spoke the fervour of a nobie mind;
Her eyes,—but when did ever soulless words
Depict such lustre, whioh, or must be seen,
Or else be all unknown.
Who can describe
The subtle cunning force of that keen wit
Which taps the hidden fountains of our mirth ?
We seek in vain to find the potent oharm
That lingers in the words, and strikes a chord
Harmonious to our passing thought and mood.
Nor can we show to one who is not blest
With gift of fancy where that humour is
Which made our mirth.
So it were vain to strive
To tell of those rioh-obarms, full powered to bind
Our true affection, whioh selc cts its lord
By instinct, rather than by interest led.
The painter’s art may on dulheanvas trace
The outline of an eye, but,cannot v show
The silent p leadings and mute eloquence
Which only live in the original.
We had been friends for months, before I woke,
To find myself a l><ver: for I deemed
Myself not suited to that dallianoe
Wnich thoughtless men call love; and so I lay
Long time unknowing of that mighty power,
Whioh gradually conquered my reserve.
They speak untruly who say love is born
Of love alone, and never is the fruit
Which comes upon the tender stem from whence
The petals of fair friendship silent fall
As love in embryo assumes their place.
There is a rapturous sentiment which springs
In many minds, and for a time subjects
The customed thought and wavering wanton will
To its own mad dominion.
Born upon
The graceful symmetry of some fair faoe;
Cradled in mantling smiles; and constant fed
With mutual interest, such flame as this
May long be kept alive; but if, perchance,
Some accident untoward should affect
The course of such a passion, love, so-called,
Is wont to turn at once to fiercest hate.
But perfect love, the love of all that’s pure,
The heart's subjection to those virtues set
Within the compass of a woman’s form,
Though checked by fate, and beat upon by time,
Will still be Love, as long as life shall last.
Such love as this is oftenest the crown
And full result of fervent friendship, lost
In deepest adoration at the last.
I cannot now discern what time I ceased
To occupy the friend’s, and took instead
The lover’s place. But even when I knew
My happiness in Linda’s love was bound,
I oould not stoop to those small arts—the jest,
The compliment, and trivial tale which pave
The paths of modern lovers. And the more
I grew in rapture, so much less my tongue
Refused to bandy words of trivial things.
Nor is this strange: the mind has only power
Within a certain limit, and this strength
Demanded all for one absorbing thought
The homage of reflection is not given
To any other less important theme.
Ah! those were happy days, and soon they passec
(As spring time merges into summer's glow),
To rapture fuller still, because more free
From all the shadowy host of doubts and fears
That linger round the suitor's slippery path;
And we became each to the other bound.
In bonds fast rivetoed by willing vows.
Happy was I to meet the constant jest
That hailed the knowledge of our compact made;
For did not every witticism bear
Fresh testimony to the sweet reality
Of love’s existence ? And we were esteemed
As lovers of a bygone age; for now
It is not deemed en regie to display
Too much devotion and ohivalrous thought
To the one lord who claims our fealty.
’Tis well that Heaven, in mercy, has concealed
The fortune of the future, with a cloud,
Which hides alike calamity and gain,
Else had I not a moment’s rapture caught
Prom all those days which Linda sanctified—
Days which were charged with ecstaoy because
Security, with lying tongue, assured
Sublimer force of eoatacy to come.
Yes; had I then been skilled to see how soon
My joy must meet destruction, I had spent
The hour in useless wailings; nor have seen
The pleasure of the moment, in the shade
Of the impending fast-approaching doom.
NORMAN FRENCH.
(To be continued.)
Waste Paper.
Pat Daley was tbe driest man wbo dwelt in Surry
Hills,
He daily blended privately the juioe of fifty stills;
And, though it play’d the deuce with him, still he
could never stop—
He drank his little drop until the drink oaused
him to drop.
He never had the time to work, and yet it came
about,
Although he drank good porter he was far re-
moved from stout;
How 'twas he was the driest man, although his
ways were wet,
I know not—he’d the credit of’t, and thus got into
debt.
His wife, poor soul, was clothed in rags, such as
would scare the crows,
Yet bore the crew’s-foot prints upon her fore-
head, eyes, and nose;
His children ten, among the lot could scarcely
raise a shirt,
They never felt the cold, they were too thickly
clad in dirt.
Now every day the shopkeepers kept sending in
their bills—
They oame in all directions—not alone from Surry
Hills;
Each morning Mrs. ®. picked up a bushel at the
door,
And ere the day was done, they dunn’d were by as
many more.
She packed them up in baskets, and filled each
empty tin,
Still paokets kept arriving, and tbe mails kept
coming in;
These constant mail arrivals found the meat for
many a meal.
In barter with the butcher, or the man who sold
cow-heel.
Like birds, through bills they filled their crops,
and Mrs. D. said that
They turned them in a pound a week, which fiabber
gasted Pat,
Who shouted loud, “Our fortin’s made, we’ll soon
surmount our ills;
We’ll run in debt three times as much, then live
upon our Bills 1”
Sydney, 11th January, 1886.
HEROES OF PEACE.
Addison, happily enough, thus writes “ Troops
of heroes undistinguished die.” It is certain that
lathe daily battle of life: in that great conflict
which, even under the aegis of peace, is fought
every day, and which is so much more pathetic,
so much more terrible, than the most stupendous
struggle between the hosts and armies of war,
heroism, unseen and unrecorded, is a very com-
mon matter. It needs not the surroundings of
a bloody battle to develope the God-like qualities
which makes the heroio. In the patient suffering,
the cheerful resignation, the unselfishness, the
honorable fidelity to duty, which, thank God, are
so common as to command no surprise when
they are discovered, we behold heroism as lofty,
as worthy, as lovely and admirable as any exhi-
bited by the soldier “in the imminent deadly
breach or the forlorn hope. y
We are here reminded, that among the fighters
m the battles of peace, the engine-driver stands
forth prominently as the embodiment of the
heroic. The incidents recorded of the 000 l
bravery aud unselfish heroism of engine-drivers
are numberless. We read the other day of the
driver of a wrecked train, mutilated and in great
agony, in dense darkness amid the warring of the
elements, crawling along the slippery line with a
lantern, to warn an approaching train against
danger. We know how nobly the driver of the
Geelong train behaved in the disastrous collision
at the Werribee ; how he died comforted with
the reflection that he had done his duty, and
holding, tightly gripped in his hand, the telegram
which had caused the mischief. We have read of
the driver who, seeing a little child playing upon
+ < is£A n +» wiD ? thafc .i t was impossible t-»
stop the train in time to avoid crushing it, crawled
along the engine and lifted the little one out
of danger. Buoh stories are oommon, and so grow,
S? At 6 anre flecting, to beoome commonplace.
But the thoughtful recognise the spirit of heroism
which resides in these narratives, and understand
how terrible is the mental and physical strain which
the engine-driver has to bear. This tax upon the
nervous system of necessity contributes to disease
and debility, and the wear and tear of energy and
health. Every sympathiser with the brave men
who thus suffer in the cause of the publio, will be
glad to hear that medical science supplies a
remedy, at once prompt, effective, and permanent
m its action. Mr.. James J. Wright, who is now
® dl tyi r °i “I®. Brunswick Reformer , Victoria,
testifies to this fact. He says that for eleven
years prevousto the year 1883, he was employed
in the locomotive department of the Victorian
railways. About 1881 he experienced kidney
troubles, coupled with rheumatism. He grew
worse in spite of medical assistance. He became
so bad that he had to be carried to his engine—
and here, surely, we perceive the heroio spirit of
fidelity to duty. His agonies were intense, but
he held on to his post, until at last, in May 1883,
he was forced to take to his bed. The doctors did
their best for him, but he grew worse, and began
to despair of recovery. Controlled by the con-
viction that his case was hopeless, he resigned his
post, a step supported by the statement of the
Governmnet medical officer, that Mr. Wright was
suffering from chronio rheumatism caused by
kidney disease, which had poisoned his blood.
This gentleman also pronounced the case to be
hopeless. Mr. Wright’s resignation was therefore
accepted and compensation granted. For eight
months he hobbled about on orutohes scarcely
able to pass from room to room, and wholly
confined to his house. However his pluck oarried
him along. He obtained work on the Daily
Telegraph newspaper, of Melbourne, and from
this circumstance traoes his cure. He was sent
down by his editor to desoribe H. H. Warner's
safe cure establishment, then just opened in Little
Lonsdale-street West. The manager, observing
that Mr. Wright was seriously unwell, presented
him with a bottle of Warner’s safe cure, whioh
was accepted with that courteous scepticism with
which the invalid, who has gone through the
“ oourse ”of legitimate medioal treatment re-
gards all proprietary specifics. However, doubt
soon changed to faith. Mr Wright speedily found
that there are more things than are dreamt of in
the philosophy of the doctors. He kept on with
the medicine with the happiest results. He says
“ I have completely recovered my health; I have
had no attaca of rheumatism since last June nor
i»7® I suffered from any kidney complaints,’ and
this in the face of the fact that I have worked
early and late, and necessarily, have been irregular
with my meals.” Mr. Wright adds-" Knowing as
I do the hardships engineers are expos rd to. the
great nervous strain, the cold, wet, heat, long
standing, and the constant jolt of the engine I
feel lam only doing my duty in recommending
to , mj A Gl l°7 enginemen, Warner’s safe cure and
safe puls; believing that they are honeit medicines
and capable of great good in relieving pain and
sustaining the system under the severe strains
incidents to the lives of those whose business is
that of engine driving.” Testimony stronger than
this could scarcely be given. It has been sent in
by Mr. Wright without solicitation. It is the
outcome of the very natural gratitude of one who
despairing of cure, found it by aocident, and who.
lacking faith at first, has been forced to acoord it
at last. It isithe honest tribute of one who, belong-
ing to a class of men trained to suffer and endure,
only yield to the force of illness when powerless
to resist. It is the certificate of a man who
carried his ailments as one of tbe great army of
the heroes of peace, and who records his cure
with the simplicity of truth, and the candour of
conviction.
No complaint is more general than that of
the liver for which Wolfe’s Bchnapps is the beat
antidote.
MORE THAN A CURIOSITY.
“What is a ouriosity, ma?” asked little
Kda. “A curiosity is somethin* that is very
strange, my child.” If pa brought you home a
dozen bottles of that celebrated Anheusen Busch
ST. LOUIS L4GER BEER, would that be a
curiosity?” “No, my child, that would be a
miraole.” Butcher, Fehon, & Co., Sole Agents.
11l Pltt-street, Sydney.* ’
Wherever Wolfe’s Schnapps have been
introduced it has by force of merit obtained public
confidence. f


SOCIAL
A fashionable marriage took place on the
afternoon of Wednesday, the 6th inst., at All
Saints Caurob, Wickham Terrace, Brisbane, The
bridegroom. Mr. Donald McDougall, son of the
Honorable J. F. McDougaU, M.L.C., with Flora,
second daughter of Mr. Justice Harding. His
.Lordship the Bishop of the diocese, assisted by the
Rev, C. J. Robinson, officiated. The bride, who
came leaning on her father’s arm, was most charm-
ing, her araceful petite figure enveloped
in a beautiful robe of pearl-white corded
silk very long square train; the front of the
skirt draped with Handsome duchess point, and
the peaked bodice, Vandyked across a full vest of
the same lace. She also wore a wreath of orange
blossoms and lilies of the valley, and tulle veil,
the border hem of which was finished with a soft
tulle ruohe, and tiny sprays of the last-named
flowers. Bhe was attended by the Misses
Emily, Rosa, Ada, and Nellie Harding (her sisters)
Miss M'Dougall (sister of the bridegroom), Miss
Ltliey, Miss Hart, and Miss Yaldwyn. All were
attired alike in extremely becoming costumes of
shell-pink nun’s veiling, trimmed with cream
point d’Alencon. Mrs. Harding (mother of the
bride) was attired In a very handsome gown of
elephant’s breath satin Merveilleux, with a
drape of ficelle lace on the left side of
the skirt, caught up with pink ostrich
feathers, bonnet to match; Mrs. M’Dougall
(mother of the bridegroom) wore black satin
trimmed with oream lace and cardinal, cream bon-
net. The bridegroom was attended by his brother,
Mr. F. M'Dougall (best man), and seven grooms-
men. Among the wedding guests in the church
were: Sir Charles and Lady Lilley, Bir Ralph and
Lady Gore, Mr. Justice and Mrs. Mein, the Pre-
mier and Mrs. Griffith, Colonel and Mrs. French,
Miss Fairbalrn, Mrs. R. S. Neilson. At the conclu-
sion of tbe ceremony the guests adjourned to
St. John’s Wood, the residence of Mr. Justice
Harding, where dinner was served—the bride
and bridegroom sitting beneath a canopy of satin
and lace, on the front of whioh were the words,
"God bless you,” in gold letters. The bride’s
presents were both numerous and costly.
* # *
An engagement which will cause some
little stir in banking ciroles is that of the manager
of an Oxford-street Bank —whom everybody
thought had given up all ideas of matrimony—and
a young lady well-known in the suburbs.
* * *
The Chamber Music Society, which Herr
J. Kretfchmaua conducts, gave a pleasant con-
cert in the University Hall last Monday night.
The large audience, if rather soaring of applause,
evinced deep interest in each item. Himmell’s
" Septett ” opened the concert, and, as each instru-
mentalist was an artist, the effect was delightful.
The oboe did good work, and had plenty to do, too,
and the weird French horn was charmingly mel-
low. Herr Kretschmann and Mons. Caron helped
considerably in strengthening the choice, If small
baad, and tbe lady amateur at the piano over-
came the many difficulties in which the pieoe
abounds, with as much grace as skill. A Miss T.
Atkinson made her appearanoe as a soprano soloist.
If the initial were F instead of T it would be more
than probable that the young lady is none other
than the Miss Fanny Atkinson, of Brisbane, who, a
few years ago, was sent home to complete her
musical education. The young lady (if the same)
was honoured by not a few laudatory
notions in the English papers anent her
singing, and one at least predicted for her
a brilliant future. Miss Atkinson has evidently
bean a hard student, for her runs and trills are
clean and finished, bat the question is whether
the voice have sufficient body to justify the meas-
ures taken with It. A pleasant presence and per-
fect self-possession told greatly in her favour, but
power Is wanting to make the whole auite satis-
factory. Two little mites took part Id Mendels-
sohn's trio for viola, violin, and piano. The baby
who sat at the piano was a little wonder, and It
seemed almost incredible that she could accomp-
lish anything with her wee fingers, but she dis-
played the greatest nonchalance In attacking
the part assigned to her, though by no means an
easy one. The elder prodigy—a child of about 11
years—took the violin part, and Herr Kretschmann
the viola. The young violinist drew forth an ex-
cellent tone, and her bowing showed her to be a
true pupil of Herr Kretschmann. Mr. Knight
Aston sang two tenor solos, but his voice seemed
forced and slightly out of tune. Nevertheless,
applause was not begrudged him. Herr Patek
gave a ’cello solo iu finished style, and with the
pure tone peculiar to himself. A string quintette
finished an agreeable and high-olass concert, upon
Which Herr Kretsohmann may be congratulated.
* * *
The Queensland B.S. Company invited a
few hundred ladies and gentlemen to a trip round
the harbour In their new boat, the Barooo, last
Friday afternoon. As everybody was socially In-
clined, the trip proved to be very enjoyable. The
Barooo is a comfortable and well-appointed boat,
and will undoubtedly be a favourite on the line.
Captain Morris need never fear that his pas-
senger-list will make other than a good show
against that of the boats belonging to the opposi-
tion companies.
* * *
At Bt. Patrick's Church, Parramatta, a
pretty wedding was celebrated on the 11th Inst.,
the chief aotors being Mr. J. C. Fitzpatrick and
the eldest daugher of Mr. P. Kelly, of “ Lynton,”
Parramatta. The bride wore a oharming costume
of oream broche ornate with lace and orange
blossoms, and the two maids were attired In fawn
cashmere and head dresses of white tulle, touched
with pale blue. Honeymoon, Mossvale.
* * »
The Sydney Tarbolton Lodge had a very
pleasant Garden Party at Botany last week.
• * •
The Sydney Owls held their hyginx last
Wednesday night in the Masonic Hall. Tbe at-
tendance was good, and some of tbe musical ren-
ditions were enjoyable. Dancing terminated the
evening’s fun.
* * *
An engagement is announced between
Alderman Fred. W. H. Pearce, second son of
Simeon Pearce, J.P., of Blenheim, Randwlok, and
Miss Starkey, second daughter of Mr. J. Starkey,
of Smithfield Grange, Coogee.
• * *
A large crowd assembled at the Univer-
sity Hall on Saturday afternoon to give audience
to Mr. Sharp's organ recital. The organist suc-
ceeded in pleasing his hearers, and gave Chopin’s
funeral march really charmingly. Since the organ
has been put in better order tnese recitals are ex-
pected to attain much popularity.
* *
Mr. Donald Gillespie, of Inverell, was
married last week to Miss Sophia Wright, eldest
daughter of the sub-inspector of police. The
bride wore cream silk lustre, with bonnet to
match, and was atcendei by live bridesmaids. In
the evening the event was calebrated by a ball
given at the residence of the bride’s parents.
Honeymoon at Sunnyside.
■ * v
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Shorter enter-
tained about 60 of their friends at a pionic at Ten-
nyson last Thursday.
• n m
A romantio marriage is to take place this
month In England. Tbe bride. Miss Baboo, is said to
be the niece of Lord Salisbury, and, if rumeur
speaks truly, worth millions, and the bridegroom
• young fisherman who is exceedingly handsome,
though of decidedly low degree, with whom the
young lady fell In love last year at Castle-la-mare.
The marriage of Dr. Verity, of Chelten-
ham, and Miss Hogg, who came out from England
under the chaneronage of the Hon. and Mrs. Ivo
Bligh, took place in Melbourne last week. Mr.
Malleson gave the bride away.
* * *
One of the interesting weddings to come
off shortly in Mel bourne is that of Mr. W. Lumsden
and Miss Fairbairn.
* * *
The genial Rea gave a dance in the Masonio
Hall, Forbes, on the 14th Instant. Beauty and
grace were the chief characteristics of the ladies
present, and the gentlemen were as amiable as
good claret cup oould make them.
ANSWERS TO SOCIAL CORRESPONDENTS.
[Note.— Social items, in order to ensure Inser-
tion for the current week, should be to hand no
later than Tuesday.]
“ Strathbogie”: Your contribution too late for
last week’s naper and too stale for this issue....
“Scone”: Your item would have been wel-
come enough a few weeks ago —" Verlta”;
The latest advices re hats tell us that the trim-
ming Is all at the hack, so that when you meet
a girl In the street you think you are follow-
ing her, and don’t realise that you aren’t
until you collide. There’s nothing particu-
larly freakish about gloves Just at present.
SOCIAL FIXTURE.
Mrs. Armstrong’s Benefit Concert,
Masonio Hall January 33.
Cricket Match, Association Ground
January 33,25, and 33.
Philharmonic Concert January 27.
Sydney, Wednesday,
Dbar PFo,—All visitors and new comers to
Sydney express unbounded surprise at the absence
of the great desideratum in our ;social life. This
town or 300.000 inhabitants has no place for social
meeting, no neutral ground of fellowship, where
all may see or learn to know each other. What
wonder that Sydney society is a bye-word for
petty cliquism! No doubt the domestic hearth
has charms, and the citizen owes duties to his own
fireside, but why Bhould not pleasant intercourse
with friends in the bright sunshine and the beauti-
ful surroundings of ourpublio places sometimes
tempt him from his dull retirement? Time after
time we have heard it thrown in the teeth of
Sydney people—“ You have beautiful publio gar-
dens, with tbe loveliest out-look in the world, and
you leave them entirely to nursemaids and
children!” Commodore Erskine gallantly at-
tempted to remove this reproach by com-
manding his Nelson Band to play in the Gardens
during one afternoon of the week, in the
SKETCHED AT THE LAST RECEPTION.
A HEN AND CHICKENS.
hope, that society would go and listen. But even
the attractions of a bachelor Commodore with his
gay suite, were not strong enough to rub up tbe
good intention. It languished and died of Inani-
tion. It is not improbable had Lady Augustus
Loftus set aside weekly packets of energy for tbe
purpose of helping the idea with her presence,
things might have been otherwise. I say this in
no spirit ef snobbery, but simply because all social
innovations must have for their main spring the
patronage and influence of the chief lady of the
land. Tnerefore, since we dare expect so much
from the sweet-fnoed lady who has oome among
us for a space, let us plead—
“ For the cause that lacks assistance,
For the wrong that needs resistance.
For the future In the distance,
And the good that she can do.”
Would it not be delightful if Lady Carington In-
stituted a “ Rotten Row ” in ttie lovely drive
round the Domain 1 It seems to me we keep all
the bounties of this rioh land foi r the edification
of ourselves and our shopkeepors. As it is,
unless one spends beautiful afternoons In hot,
austy George-street, one Is never likely to know
what manner of neighbours we possess. How
very much pleasanter if it becar ne a recognised
custom to make the Domain drivo a fashionable
resort! This thin end of the wedg< j onee inserted,
there is no bounds to the future i (osslbilities. It
would be a great boon to our bu By men-kind to
know that when they left their bust Iness worries at
5 o’clock they would be sure to find pleasant
relaxation in the exohange of friendly greetings,
or the sight of well-appointed equiipages, occu-
pied by well-dressed women; or, to become more
bold, if Sydney could once aooomplh ih an open-air
concert in true Continental fashiou, men would
cry with wonder: “How have we existed so long
without these simple delights? Away with our
fusty hum-drum conventionalities! Let us use the
cool evenings, or the balmy moonlight sights in the
enjoymentof sweet strains and enuobfing scenes.”
Alter a ramble through our beautiful publio
Gardens-beautiful and fresh even now in this ex-
hausting atmosphere,—it is pitst belief that people
can live within a stone’s throw from sermon to
season, and yet never enter them. Unhappily
such is the case, the nominal excuse be log tbe
beauty of other spots—the r eal one, tha*, having
settled is to one groove, people have not energy
to rouse themselves out or it. Could any spot be
more fitted for a Rotten Row than t;he Outer
Domain? It has within itself so many and mani-
fold attractions. To the equestrian, a delightful
ride. To the art lover, the Picture Gall ery on one
side, exquisite nature on the other. 1 . To the
scientist, the Technological Museum. To the
sport lover, perfect crioket or tenuis grounds.
What more would you compress int o a national
pleasure ground ? Pour moi.—onl.r a golden
thought of Emerson’s, “A sufficient, measure of
civilisation is the Influence of good women.” In
other words, a perfect vitality/ that will
“ take occasion by the hand and make the bounds
of freedom broader yet.”
On Saturday afternoon last Mrs. T. 8. Mort, of
G reenoakes, Darling Point, gave a pleasant “At
Home ” In honour of the recently arrived Bishop
of Melanesia and Mrs. Selwyn (nee Miss Annie
Mort), who are here for a short while en route to
Norfolk Island, the scene of the Bishop’s labours
as head of the Melanesian Mission. It was a de-
lightful gathering of old friends to welcome
Mrs. Belwyn home again. The guests included
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Mort, Miss Mort, Mr. and Mrs.
W. E. Mort, Mr. Laidley Mort, Mrs. James Mort,
Mrs. Crace. Miss Mitchell, Judge Dowling, Sir
Alfred and Lady Btephen. Bir John Hay, Lady and
Mi as Manning, Mr. and Mrs. Sahl, Mr. and Mrs.
Knox, the Misses Knox, Mr. and Mrs. Kolleston,
Miss Rolleston, Mrs. P. Gidly King, Mrs. Gold-
finch, Mrs. W. Lamb, Mrs. E. Lamb, Mrs. Gotha
Mann, the Misses Mann, Mrs. Mackay, Mrs.
Eustace Smith, Mrs. Leigh Lord, Mr. and
Mrs. E. Merewether, Mr. and Mrs. J. E. Manning,
Miss M. Manning, Mrs. Marsh, Mrs. Busby, the
Misses Busby, Dr. Manning, the Misses Finch, and
many others. I believe the dresses worn were, on
the whole, very handsome, and quite in keeping
with the beautiful surroundings. Black predo-
minated, a few of the younger ladies wearing
white or colour. Mrs. Selwyn wore peacock-blue
satin, with bonnet to match; Mrs. Sahl, black lace
and jet: Mrs. Merewether, black satin and jet;
Miss Knox, raspberry zephyr, with broad white
embroidery; Mrs. W. E. Mort, white crepe doth:
Mrs. Leigh Lord, black Ottoman silk, lace, and
Jet; Miss Mitchell, ficelle canvas and brown velvet
The marriage of Dr. W. West, the Glebe, Sydney,
with Mlbs Amy Taylor, youngest twin daughter of
the late Mrs. Taylor, of Terrible Yale, Uraua, New
England, is fixed to take place at an early date in
February at the residence of the bride’s brother,
Mr. Fred Taylor, Terrible Yale.
An engagement is announced between Mr. Alan
Robertson, ef Wellington Yale, New England, and
Miss Ethel Mackenzie, eldest daughter of Mr. H.
Mackenzie, Ollera, New England. The marriage
will probably take place in the autumn.
CORRA LYNN.
The raree show provided at the Pitt-street
Congregational Church last week attracted, it is
said, a large audience. The occasion ostensibly
was a welcome to some dozen or so South Sea
Islanders on their way to New Guinea as teachers
under control of the missionaries. The gathering
reminded us more forcibly of the levee described
in “ Martin Chuzzlewit,” where Mark Tapley and
his master were interviewed by a crowd of curiosity
hunters, who came to stare at two people volun-
tarily expatriating themselves to a comparatively
unknown locality of swamps, fever, and general
misery. The conductor of the show put the half-
civilised Islanders and their wives through their
faoings, and after the audience had been
thoroughly sated with hymns andspeeohes in an
unknown tongue, and had crltloised the quality,
make, and general appearance of the attire worn
by the females, the unhappy kanakas were allowed
to depart in peace.
The eyes of England are turning towards
us—as also towards our pockets. When castles
have to be sold then folks with much money have
to be looked up. Australian papers of last week
oontain particulars of sale of “ Saltwood Castle
with its 500 acres of park, wood and arable land, in
the eounty of Kent.” We read of its attractions,
that “ the gatehouse of this fine old historical castle
has lately been restored, making a most Imposing
residence for a family, with splendid views both
inland and seaward to the English Channel. The
oastle covers three acres, a portion of it being In
pioturesque ruins,” and all within two hours’
railway ride from London and 30 minutes from a
railway station. Australians are evidently thought
to be still lingering here waiting for chances to
imitate Sir Salmon Wilson’s example In setting up
in historical houses. For an Australian to live in
the “gatehouse,” or gatekeeper's house, with a
ruined oastle In the background, as a show place,
should satisfy the ambition of those who, by help
of their money, wish to be heard of by their
friends at a distance.
Wolfe’s Schnapps— Purchase the genuine
and repudiate all shams.
The publio should avoid all imitations of
Wolfe’s Schnapps. Be sure you procure the
genuine Wolfe’s.
Happiness secured by removing from your
homes all things distasteful to tne sight, and re-
placing them with the world’s art worts in china
and glass. Enjoy your meals, the social circle
beautify,land make attractive every room, by pur-
chasing your oroekery—as it is generally called—
at 403 and 404 George-street, commonly known as
Bray’s.*
The celebrated Wolfe’s Schnapps is a
shield and safeguard against sudden changes of
temperature.
Reoent exposures by the Customs Author-
ities show how the reputation of Wolfe’s
B<jhnapps has been trifled with.
jgvirnivisus JB JR HOW ROOMS,
BRADLIY, NEWTON, and LA MB.
O Connell and SprtrMr streets, Sydney
J£JALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS,
CHAIRS, LABOR ASSORTMENT.
CBNTKBjmd JIB
*
JL I TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, m exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &e,
VERY ELEGANT, just received, Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Novelties in boudoir andso w window
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDROOM SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O'Connell streets, Sydney.
E
jiIGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
11 Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, cheat drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for MS. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, Q’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft,, with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tue back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached ; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas,
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10a.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 80s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Wsshstands from 12s. 6d,;
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80s ;
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Sideboards,
from A 3105.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
- i
3
4?QK PIANOFORTE, guai
oWOO strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, In handsome
Case. Free at rail or wharves foi cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Stj ABY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
JOs rooms. New designs covered to order in any
mater 4 - 1 '
L£ OCIvtNG EASY CHAIRS, elegant and restful,
JL«j a speciality. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
O Connell-street.
Drawing-room CABiNETS.-Eariy English,
Anglo-Japanese, and Chippendale designs.
Just opened. BRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring & O’Connell sts.
n RAWING-ROOM FURNITURE.—The latest
development of fashion. ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically Inlaid with
coloured woods. Exquaito examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Elegant novelties in bedroom fur-
NITDRE. full suites. inSATINWOOD, ROSE-
WOOD, and other CHOICE WOODS, richly inlaid.
Will well repay inspection.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, ar
and LAMB, O’Connell-st.
FOLDING-SCREENS (3 and 4 told) for the Draw
ing and Dining Rooms and Office. Bradley
Newton, and Lamb.
GARDEN SEATS, 20s: Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
Rattan verandah lounges, 203.; and
large variety of Chairs, &c.; special designs,
extra quality. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring & O’Connell sts.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for clubs, restaurants,
smoking rooms, Ac.
[ELF-AD JUSTING HAMMOCK OH AIK—
Patented.
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It Is simple, yet Ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of theuumerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It Is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
oamp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort Is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
UIUOUID} UUU TTvuguiug uuxj POU fiuunuo wum-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when ft ided. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
when ft Ided. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, If required,
2s. Bd. extra.
QFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES
_ Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, Newton
and Lamb.
RON SAFES, various sizes. BRADLEY,
. NEWTON, and LAMB, Spring & O’Connell sts.
C
OPYING PRESSES. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
WALL MIRRORS and BRACKETS—Novelties
in plush and velvets and in all woods,
from 5/6.
Elegant Venetian mirrors, richly
enamelled In colours. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
COMMODE CHAIRS ; BIDETS, with PAN ;
Shaving Stands. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted with
pulleys and cords, 6 x 8, 9/6; BxB,ll/-; 9xB,
13/-; 10 x 8.14/-; 12 x 8,16/6; 12 x 10.20/-.
BRAjjLKY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
ICE CHESTS, with CUPBOARDS, all sizes, from
27s Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, Spring and
O’Connell streets.
Furniture— the largest stockin the
COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
bpring.and O’Connell streets.


by FLOOD FIELD .
tabbing propensities of the trustees
Gfound have again brought
of the. 4® 3 collision with the cricketers, their
?he® iat _° a e mand from the Melbourne Cricket
ridio ul 9Sr? for the use of their ground for
Club of 25J>or ecu refused. It will be
?test note'how long the cricket-loving
interesting gydney will put up with the
nublio of things. The so-called Association
present sta J und was vested in trustees with the
'' OrioK* tering the game, but their idea appears
idea of f°st pricket—and sport generally—may
to be ao long as they raise a big
go to the mainly owing . to their
Revenue, »n jcket has rea ched such a low
system that o The revenue derived from
level ini’? . g y De t ween seven and eight thou-
tke grbbnn is round and premises are in tip-
sand a year, g thlnk w ith the cricketing public
time affairs were altered a trifle, even
that it Avenue suffers to the gain of cricket,
if *£•* has had more than a fair share of suffericg
?stf»'>“ e V rBVOa,l '-»
nibs on must now regret his temerity
¥ r 'irHngMr. Bevil at the last meeting of the
i ll Association over a little flare-up in re a
Cricket Assowa ticket> Mr- G it)S(m took upon
compiiin® & £riend with a complimentary
bi? 8 ? 1 which, upon presentation at the gate, was
ticket,j W bv Mr. Bevil, who very properly ohal-
refuS n d Mr y Gibson’s right to issue said ticket. All
incurred last season, hut Mr. Gibson thought
Ibis oocurre matter , and b e duly received a
I |iresbmg'f r °m the ready and cultured tongue of
theWly Bevil. „ *
. Tiannerman will not take part in the
f * match. If the Association people
lDte Alick In a “ subdued and gentle-
werrfir ” manner, he might be Induced to recon-
sider his decision. + *
\K a v\p Waitangi, and Siroooo have entered
. yachts, 10 tons and over, at the National
for* l }?/ The Waitangi is going “bald headed
? eg a nnremacy, and Mr. Wilson deserves success
l°wh P e BPortmanlike manrier In which he races
holt The Waitangi has had her forefoot
h inndedoff considerably; she has also been cut
10 Jvlftf and she now sports a suit of sails from
? w Shnrne England. Her square-headed topsail
nerfect poem; ” the foot, which carries a
l S nrd a p P acting feet beyond the end of her gaff, a
afrie hitherto seen by colonial yachtsmen only in
pictures of English and Yankee clippers.
william Beach and his Fidus Achates ,
Xfn Tieeble, have decided upon “doing” Eagiand
Sn r s America, and William Is expected in Sydney
?his week, when final arrangements will, no doubt,
ha made. While away, Beach will be open to row
all comers for the championship, wherever they
turn up, provided he is fit and well, but
ohnnld the change of climate throw him at all off
polour ’’ he will not row. Laycock rowed the best
races of his life on the Thames, where he defeated
mackmaD, Hosmor, and Riley, received forfeit
from Hawdon, and won the Hop Bitters contest,
and as Beach is of exceptionally fine physique we
Bpeno reason why he should not go and do hke-
lt really seemed a pity Laycock should
finish up such a wonderful run of performances
bv hanging on for a match with Hanlan in the
denth of an exceptionally severe winter. The date
for the matoh was fixed for January 17, lwl, but
the Thames was blooked with ice, and the race
postponed until clear water could he obtained,
iet us hope our champion will not fall into a like
error. * * *
We were pleased to see the hardly-used
Sirocco score a win for the R.S.Y.S. thlrd-olass
race on Saturday last. The oourse was from a
flving Start over a line between the French buoy
and the starter’s boat in Neutral Bay, down to and
round the club buoy at Manly, back round Shark
Island and Fort Denison, thence round lightship.
Sow and Pigs. Shark Island, and baok to flagboat
off Fort Macquarie. Two yachts competed, Mr.
to w. Knox’s Sirocco and Dr. Milford s Bao,
which had a time allowance of 3min 22sec.
The wind blew rather black during the afternoon
from the north-east, and the Sao, with a single reef
in her mainsail, led round the buoy at Manly, but
the Sirocco passed her in the run to Shark Island,
and gradually drawing out a lead, finished
4min. 41sec. ahead of Dr. Milford s little
crack. However, Mr. Knox’s ill-luck still pursues
him, as the question has been raised whether the
Sao’s handicap was the correct one for this par-
ticular course. Yioe-Commodore Milson, who
acted as Commodore of the day, will re-measure
the course, and suoh measurement will decide the
race. * * *
It would seem the Association Ground
people have ridden a willing horse to death. At
the magnificent Ashfield Recreation Ground on
Saturday last, Mr. Copeland said:—“ Cyclists were
heartily glad that a recreation ground had been
formed at Ashfield. They had laboured from year
to year against a monopoly—a monopoly whioh
had at last become Insufferable. The Association s
was a fine ground for cyclists, but, unfortunately,
those in power in connection with that enclosure
were despotic and tyrannical to a degree. The
Sydney Bicycle Club had paid the Association
Ground £212 for the use of it for one afternoon in
last August, and had borne all the expense, and
taken every risk and responsibility. There was
great need of competition In the way of grounds.
The monopoly should be broken, and he hoped to
see the Australian Eleven play at Ashfield in a
couple of weeks, for it would do a deal towards
the attainment of that end. The cycling bodies
would support the Ashfield ground, and one of
the leading Sydney clubs had already decided to
hold its annual race meeting there.” £63 an hour
is pretty stiff. It would be had enough for a
ground, run purely by a money-making company,
but from trustees appointed with the object of
fostering manly sport! Bah!
* # *
The fight for supremacy between the
Sydney and Mercantile Rowing Clubs has been
carried even unto the waters of the Macleay. At
the Lower Clarence Rowing Club Regatta, held on
New Year's Day, the senior double soulls was com-
peted for by Messrs. J. M'Kensey and J. Weekes,
andß. R. Donaldson, and E. J. Tierney, victory
falling to the lot of the first named pair. Donald-
son and M'Kensey were at one time members of
the Sydney and Mercantile Clubs respectively.
Jim M'Kensey pulled many a hard fought battle
in the Sydney Mercantile Rowing Club, and formed
one of the Intercolonial eight for years 1879 and
1880. We thought “Jim” M'Kensey bad by this
time settled down into old pater familias , hut it
seems there is life in the old dog yet.
* -* *
On Saturday night, at Foley’s Gymnasium,
George-street, Sydney, a merry set-to was In-
dulged in by a number of competitors for the £lO
trophy presented by Foley. The contest was con-
ducted under Queensberrv rules, four three
minute rounds. Ryan and Johnston (coloured)
opened the ball. Their spar was very uninterest-
ing. Mulholland and Nelson followed, but the
latter, a youthful aspirant for fistic fame, stood
no show with his opponent, who played with him
to a rather greater extent than was justifiable,
There is no courage and no science In making a
show of a youthful antagonist. Nelson fought two
game rounds and retired. Meadows and Charles
Bathgate took the floor in the third event, and got
to work quiokly. Bathgate was altogether out of
condition, though In the first two rounds he got
on to Meadows when he liked. Then the condition
of the verdant one began to tell, and after some
pretty sparring and smart exchanges, he fairly
wore his man down, and beat him in tho final
round. The last blow was a knock down for
Meadows. This was the host set-to of the evening,
and the excitement during the progress of the
fight was as genuine as if bare knuckles dealt toe
blows, and blood and hair strewed the floor of the
arena. No one was hurt except a man at the back,
who foil off a chair In the second round. Salby
fid Fitzgerald fought two merry rounds, and
were Just warming to their work when Fitz
gerald dropped on to Selby a head. Not in
the orthodox fashion, by banging him with
the glove, but by accidental and un P r ®? l ®r.
ditated result of a collision. They put their
heads together, and Fitzgerald retired witn
a cut on his temple in which he could bury
his thumb. Mulholland and Miller , the Tasmanian,
next faced tho music, and fought- their four
rounds well out. a good give-and-take battle was
waged between the men, Mulholland having
slightly the best of it all through. A turn-up
between Foley and Turnbull wound up *he enter-
tainment. Weight-lifting by Turnbull and Cans
dell, and single-stick play between Cansdellanda
pupil, filled the intervals between the
The hall was crowded, and the good order which
marks these entertainments was fully °hserved.
There is always a refining influence in the presence
of a good man, whether physically or morally good,
but ft is observable that muscle generally comes
ahead of moralß in a gathering of lam-
kin element is not represented at tne Gymnasium.
Foley superintends tne entertainment, und—well,
you know, the aggressive spirits in t!l ® audience,
if any, have too much “respect for him to dis-
obey his mandate that good behaviour must be ob-
served. Thus does the muscular man outweigh
the moral man in his hold on an assembly, If
John Robertson were “on the shoulder he would
have a majority at his back in two days, Why
doesn’t the veteran knight of Cloveliy go in
train?
* v *
The Sydney Driving Park Club held its
annual meeting on Saturday, 9th instant, and in a
paragraph in our last issue we briefly referred to
the day’s racing. A section of the daily Ire® B
having accused the committee of interfering un-
necessarily and endeavouring to thwart the secre-
tary in carrying out programme, we have be n
requested to place the committee s version
the case before the public. Those gentjemei—!
Messrs. J. A. Roberts, J. T. MTnnes, J. M Laugh-
lm, and H. L. M. Pike-assert that through the
neglect of the secretary they were compelled to
assume the entire management of the business of
the meeting. The printed programme and krect
card of the races specified the events and the
order in which they were to be run, and by this
the officers were guided. After the third event
—the ,3min. class—had been run, the secretary
descended from the stand and ordered out the pony
hurdle jumpers. On these coming to the post Mr.
Roberts ordered them hack, pointing out that
they were about to usurp the place ot the
fourth event, the second division of the 3 min.
trotters. There was, of course, much swearing ana
gnashing of teoth among jockeys and owners, hut
the committee were firm, and adhered striely to
the programme. The secretary made his plaint to
the Press representatives present, and accused the
committee of thwarting his efforts to bring off a
good day’s sport. On being requested by one of
the committeemen, a man of business-standing in
the city, to give the statement in his previous issue
toe contradiction to which it was honestly entitled,
one at least of the reporters deolined, and the
other has not acknowledged the error. In the in-
terest of the sport, and for the sake of the gentle-
men who laboured to bring off a good day s.raciog,
we now affirm our belief that the charge brought
against the committee of unnecessarily interfer-
ing with the programme is entirely unfounded,
and that, were the circumstances fully stated, their
justification and the secretary 8 humiliation would
be equally complete.
A glanoe at the list of probables for the
fifth Austalian Eleven shows that it contains
a very modest infusion of new blood after all.
At the most, there are not likely to be more than
four debutants. Six of the men mentioned went
home in 1884. while three others have made the trip
in previous years. However, there is one thing to
be said. The average age of our
likely to exceed that of most of the English
elevens opposed to them. There.is always a strong
element of conservatism in the selection ot All-
England Elevens.
• * •
Racing men have no occasion to complain
of things being so quiet just now. Joe Thomp-
son has had £lOO abstracted from his bedroom,
and Jas. Wilson, the trainer, has been worried by
a bull. Both gentlemen are aoing as well as might
be expected under their afflictions.
a ■ ■
Dirk Hatteraick has come to Flemington
from Adelaide once again, and looks handsomer
than ever. Perhaps the chestnut will contrive
to earn his keep this journey, and prove himself
the racehorse he has always looked. The public,
apparently, have wearied of Dirk since somebody
“ dreamt ” him for the Cup of 1883, and lured a lot
of small punters into having their little bit on the
gay deceiver. But, in spite of a long series of de-
feats, it only needs the “whisper’ to put em
again on tho traok of the most taking looking
horse—bar none-at Flemington. Now the New-
market Handicap should be just about Dirk s
flutter. Time will show if there is anything in
the surmise. .
* * *
Those enlightened and progressive fathers
of the turf, the members of the A.J.C., held their
annual meeting in their rooms last Monday after-
noon. Quite a live time they had of it too-almost
as lively as a debate on a no-confidence motion
in Macquarie-street. Nearly £6OOO profit on the
year’s operations was shown by the balance-sheet,
at which the ohairman (Hon. J. White, M.L.0.)
congratulated the members—and smiles circulated
generally around. Then the growling began by
Mr. L. F. Saohs demanding to know why a cer-
tain nomination for election to the committee was
iaformal. The chairman replied that the required
21 days’ no lice had not been given, on which Mr.
Sachs retorted that the necessity for this had been
improperly suppressed by the committee, lie
then went on to condemn the virtual appointment
of the oommittee of 1885 to serve for 1886, and also
what he styled the “bunching of the same
body of men into office from year to year. But
he managed to considerably upset the equable
" no-one-is-perfect-but-us ” tempers of some of
the officials by a stinging reference to their de-
cision re that Gannon-Long episode. This, or
course, must have sounded like flat heresy, but
worse was to come, for Mr. Sachs actually had
theaudaoity to declare that “there were some mem-
bers of that body who, by their narrow-mindedness
and moral cowardice, imperilled the existence of
a club which ought to be in advance of every
Australasian Turf Club, hut which, as a matter of
fact, was very much in the rear-rank.
that now after all the utterances of the daily Press
to show how far ahead Itandwiok is of Ileming-
ton, in poor, unenlightened Victoria. Then no
less an • “authority ’’ than Hon. H. C.
Dangar arose in wrath and repudiation. He had
been 20 years on the committee, and to say they
were bunched was “almost an insolent imputa-
tion.” J use so, 20y ears—no doubtone of the very
1 men Mr. Bachs had just castigated. After a little
more expenditure of angry words over this
episode, the truly enlightened policy of charging
members two guineas admission to the offi-
cial stand in addition to their yearly
tion of five guineas was challenged. Two legal
gentlemen present expressed an opinion that the
charge was illegal, and then the oommittee gave
way, bu" not tffi then, and promised “ to consider
what position they really stood m. VOOt
N.B.W. turf, when will you be governed by a body
of men capable of managing your affairs on busi-
ness principles ? One thing has. been made clear
by this meeting, and it is that, if racing in this
colony is to hold its own, new blood must be in-
fused into the ranks of those controlling it. Fos-
sils who have droned on the committee since the
bad old times of years ago must be cleared out to
make room for younger and more spirited men.
** . *
The following telegram was received on
Mondav last by Folev’s representative:— Newton
proposes box Foley £lOO a-slde. Any interference
whatever, each party to take stake and
divide gate. Fight to a finish. Winner to take
two-thirds. Match to take place at 1 8 H?*}’
Get immediate answer Foley. To thisJthe fol-
lowing reply was sent on luesday afternoon.
“ Foley accepts your terms, as stated in telegram,,
and requests deposit be forwarded at once to Bul-
let in Office or proprietor of one of thelSydney
journal*. Foley will cover deposit on receipt.
Match nine weeks from signing articles, Holey
guarantees no interference, and if such should be
caused by any of his friends, will forfeit gate and
stake.” This should surely satisfy the Melbourne
party, and the match may, we hope, be looked
upon as arranged. The terms of Foley s reply to
Newton also apply to the Farnan-Foley match.
* * *
Visitors to Ashfleld Recreation Ground on
Saturday were delighted to see the scale on which
preparations have been made for future athletic
gatherings. Over £9OOO has been spent on the
ground and buildings, and the result has been the
creation of a formidable rival to the Association
Ground. Bicycling, cricket, bowls, skittles, and
billiards, each have their peculiar space. gas is
laid on, and the appointments generally tesjity to
the generosity of the directors, and the intelligent
energy of the hon. secretary, Mr. R. C- Webster.
The popularity of the ground in such hands is
assured.
* * *
After much wordy warfare, Farnan and
Foley are at length to meet in the riDg. 1 oley
allows Farnan £35 for expenses to come to Sydney
and box to a finish, in eight weeks from signing
articles, for £lOO a-side. *
Amongst other attractions for athletes at
the Gymnasium, George-street, Foley has recently
provided a oouple of enormous brown bears.
These animals are highly trained, and go through
various military evolutions with a grace which
would make a Soudan soldier turn green with
envy. They are also skilled wrestlers, and open
at any time to try a fall with a visitor. Their
style is mixed, but Larry says they know all the
“ stops and holts.” They are harm logs and good
tempered, and generally wears muzzles to keep
people from fooling with their behind teeth.
Foley has a “turn-up” with them every day for
practice; more fun fighting them than a circular
saw, he says. The animals are on view all day and
in the evening.
* * *
Malone and O’Brien are matched to run
for £lOO a-side on the 14th February. The distances
will be three—imile, 1000 yards, and 94mile. The
event will be decided first, after which the
contestants will toss for choice of the other.
Malone is giving away a great deal in meeting
O’Brien at his own distances, for though a fast
sprinter Malone is only a sprinter, and if he is
beaten at these long range races he must not be
surprised. The Association Ground or the Agri-
cultural Society's Grounds will probably be
selected for the match.
* * *
At the Gymnasium, George-street, on
Monday evening, Mr. Norman Turnbull was pre-
sented, by Mr. Foley, with a silver cup, as a tribute
to his prowess as au all-round athlete. The cup,
which was designed and made by Mr. Evan Jones,
is of silver, chased, engraved, and insoribed, and
valued at £3O.
The enormous increase in the sales is a
proof of the growing popularity of Wolfe'S
Schnapps.
T:
GOMPAGNONI CATERING GO., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
|HE oldest and leading Catering Establishment InN.S.W. Caterers to His Worship the Mayor.
The
j and loftiest in the oolony.
__ I Wine List.
- ortt.t. ROOM now onen. A Grill ean be had at any time from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. (after the
Theatos^delectyour ownVeak. &c., and see it grilled in the room. This is one of the aoquisitlpns
oi the city, and a long-felt want. Inspection invited n, ” v ' '
and City Club, upstairs.
Club rooms of the Prince Alfred Yacht Ciuo
D. TOLLEffIAGHE, General Kanager.
ON
3ESRINA.
SALE ON THE GROUND, ANNIVERSARY DAT.
SPECIAL STEAMERS. Tickets of
BOYD & KING, Auctioneers,
96 PITT BTKEBT.
1 to 5-ACRE BLOCKS.
■ - 1 ,1, ~3
Luncheon. Band.
HORDERNS
ON THB
IBrlclc£LelcL mill.
01 STAY AKD COUET DEPARTMENT.
Stays sent to any Railway Station
3?ree oe Charge.
C D
O-
«'0
u 0
\
k
m
&
y*<
Nursing and Riding Stays.
Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPOON BUSKS).
2s, lid., 3fl. 8d„ 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4s. lid., ss, 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d„ 9s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12a 6d
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS, 666 and 668 Brickfield Hill.
N.8.-Order* from tbt Country will receive immediate and careful attention.


Political
Points
The Armidale Chronicle thinks that the
late N.S.W. Premier should not be called Dibbs.
It would like to see the initial altered to F.
Dan O’Connor promises the N.S.W. post-
men that their next Christmas holidays shall be
more plentiful than their last. Daniel promises
too fast. He himself will likely have political
holidays next Christmas.
Says a Hobart telegram:—“lt is expected
that nearly the whole of the Australian squadron
will be in the river duriDg the sitting of the
Federal Council.” We should have thought the
looal police capable of controlling the discussion.
England oan teach Australia nothing in
politioal manners. Ou election day, at Oxford
university, the statue of Lord Beaoonsfleld was
first defaoed, and then, by way of retaliation, some
too ardent 'lories completely decapitated Mr.
Gladstone.
Lord Cranbourne, eldest son of the Mar-
Suis of Salisbury, only won a seat in the English
ommons for North-East Lancashire by five votes.
The Liberals say they can prove at least a dozen
cases of personation and are certain of being able
to unseat him.
Writes “ Oagonet”: “Such tactics as the
English Church party resorted to duriDg the late
British elections would disgrace a pagan. The
cause must indeed be desperate when it has to be
supported by tactics which Judaß Iscariot and
Ananias would have blushed to resort to.”
“We believe the verdict of the colony
would be that the second House is neither use nor
ornament. It is simply a refuge for the worn-out
and disoarded members of the Lower House,
where they can air their spite and show their
venom.”— Yobke’s Peninsula Advertiser.
The banquet “ tendered to Dan. O’Connor,
the N.S.W. Postmaster-General, by his friends and
admirers, in recognition of his elevation to the
Ministry,” is fixed for the 23rd inst. This is hurry-
ing things up, but Parliament meets on the 27th,
and after that it is not a banquet but a political
“ wake ” that the Jaynill one will be afther
wantin’.
The Campbelltown Post says Tom Garrett
did not join Sir John Robertson’s Ministry beoause
by so doing “ he would have been acting In direct
opposition to hla old and trusted medical adviser.”
If all that the wily Thomas does is under the
direction of his old and trusted medical adviser,
we are inollned to think that the latter has some
original Ideas concerning the scienoe of health.
At a London girls’ sohool (“Collegiate
Establishment for Young Ladies ” is what they
oall It in the Home papers), it is alleged that the
pupils were made to learn some of Cnamberlain’s
speeohes by heart. In Sydney a schoolmistress
threatened to put away the oane and make the
girls learn so many lines of Dan. O’Connor’s speech
Instead, as a punishment. The behaviour at that
School has been most exemplary ever since.
Mr. Reuben Quarrill, of the Geelong Ad-
vertiser, is one of the candidates for the repre-
sentation of that gruesome town at the next
general election. If his name is any Index to his
nature he will be weloomed with open arms by
Messrs. Bent and Gaunson, and will be reoeived
by Colonel Smith even as a dear and long-lost
brother—that Is, if these gentlemen got in again.
But there is ne suoh luok for the oolony as their
not getting in, we fear.
Thus the Sydney D. T.“ Dr. Moorhouse
is a fully-developed Liberal in English politics.”
Yes, his Lordship oertainly Is a fully-developed
Liberal if the poiitios of the D. T. are Liberal. But
Victorians have never yet seen any of Bishop
Moorhouse’s fully-developed Liberalism in that
colony; they know him In poiitios only as a
thoroughpaced Tory and staunch Imperialist, and
his energetic advocacy of Toryism and Imperial-
ism seems to have secured promotion for him with
£4200 a year.
The list of probable candidates for Parlia-
mentary honours in Victoria includes the name of
Mr. George Rignold, the actor. The name of his
partner does not appear. Perhaps they think that
It would be altogether too much of a good thing
for the two to join In the “ show ” at the top of
Bourke-street. Is Allison reserving himself for
theN.B.W. Assembly as a rival to Dan. O’Connor
or Quong Tart ? We heard Jim orate once, and if
he were to get a seat on ithe “ flure ” of the ’Ouse
we should not (D V.) miss the opportunity to hear
his maiden speech there.
We understand that at the instance and
with the aid of several justly-djscontented sub-
scribers, the representatives of a member of the
N.B.W. Contingent who lost his lifo in connection
with the Soudan expedition, intend to sue the
trustees nf the so-ealied Patriot io Fund for the
money now in their hands, and that an enter-
prising firm of solicitors have consented to take
the matter up. We cordially wish the lawyers
every success ; we consider ft a shame that the
money should be lying idle and benefiting no de-
serving person—but simply increasing the city
Influence of a set of purse-proud Podsnaps.
According to Lady Randolph Churchill, a
branch of the Primrose League has been estab-
lished in Sydney. Reynolds writes:—“ The Tories
in the present campaign receive the greatest assis-
tance from their femaie relatives. While the work-
ing man's wife Is at her tub, the Tory’s wife is
going about canvassing for her husband, and
threatening poor, timid shopkeepers with the
withdrawal of custom if the Liberal be returned.
These are the Dames of the Primrose League, who
are not ashamed to show their borrowed plumes
in the houses of the men by whose labour they
are enabled to live idle and luxurious lives.”
The British Government had to pay a
pretty penny for the hiring of the American
liners, whioh, like those of the Orient and other
Anglo-Australian mall steamers chartered by
them, they fitted out as “armed cruisers” in
anticipation of a war with Russia. The freight
ranged from 17s. 6d to £llos. per ton per month
with the orew, and from 12s. 6d. to £1 per ton per
month, the Government paying the crew. A fair
idea of what the six months’ rent came to may be
Sot when it is known that the tonnage of the
regon is 7375, the Umbria 7718, the Alaska 6932,
and the Arizona 5148. And what has been gained
by the expenditure ?
Mr. J. D. Ypung, M.L.A. for West Sydney,
at a recent baok-scratohing feed, is reported to
have Bald that “ after the eloquent speeches they
had listened to he was at a loss what to say.” This
is beautiful. J. D. Young always is at a loss what
to say. As a politioal orator he is a conspicuous
failure, and his return to Parliament is the most
notable evidence of the lamentable gullibility and
want of discrimination of the electors of his con-
stituency. We can hardly acknowledge J. D,
Young or Dan. O’Connor, who comes trOm the
game electorate, to be capable representatives of
West Sydney, but consider them equally fit to re-
? resent the men who were idiotic enough to vote
or them.
w Mr. G. B. Simpson, the N.S.W. Attorney-
General, has gone to Melbourne on a fortnight’s
holiday.” You may not see anything uncommon
in this item, culled from the “ Brevities ” column
of a country contemporary. Well, there is more
fun in this than in an average funeral. If Mr.
G. B. Simpson had travelled on a train, a steam-
boat, or even, following in the wheel track of the
illustrious Justice Williams, of Victoria, sped
overland on a patent safety bicycle, there would
have been no fun in the festive par. But—and
mark—the hon. gentleman has gone to Melbourne
on a fortnight’s holiday. Surely a cheap way of
travelling. When he returns, probably he will
oommence work.
Ye gods! Listen. From a Sydney Daily
Telegraph leader:—*' We fully recognise that we
owe him (Henniker Heaton) to the Empire, and
resign him to Canterbury without a pang. It is
better so. The Conservative party sadly needs a
Man: Australia presents it with Heaton and his
autobiography. And thus does N.S W. twice in a
year cover itself with glory by ooming to the
relief of the Empire in the moment of its ex-
tremity.” The D.T , groning round for popularity
as usual, has, we are glad to see, come rather
tardily to comprehend that the people of N.S.W.
look with the profoundest contempt on the whole
Soudan expedition business, and the Telegraph
gibes at it accordingly. We are sorry, however,
that the D.T. should appear to couple even the
Soudan donkey with the member for Canterbury,
England. The degradation is really too bitter—for
the donkey.
A correspondent having called Mr. Cham-
berlain’s attention to the fact that the reverses
of the Liberals had been attributed to a reaction
a«rainst Radicalism, Mr. Chamberlain has replied
(December 1) that “he does not attach any import-
ance to the so-called anti-Radical reaction, and
believes that the failure of the Liberal Party in
many constituencies is due entirely to other
causes, and chiefly to the opposition of the Irish
and the Church Party. Besides this, the de-
pression in trade has made many ignorant voters
anxious for change. Mr. Chamberlain will not
allow anything to turn him aside from the polioy
to whioh he has committed himself.” Mr. Cham-
berlain added that there was against the Radicals
a most unusual combination—the five P's—the
Priests, Publicans, Parsons, Parnellites, and Pro-
tectionists—a combination which had never op-
posed them before, and probably never would
again.
The N.S.W. Postmaster-General has taken
the public into his confidence, and great will be
tneir benefit in consequence. He says that he was
always under the impression that the office of
P.M.G. was the least important in the Government
(how does this read in conjunction with his pre-
vious declaration that he was the first member
whom Bir John asked to take office ?), but his
experience of a fortnight showed him that it
required a man of great ability to administer the
Department. Like Dan O’Connor, for example;
IN THE HARDENS.
BOY: “PAPA, DOES NOT THAT PLANT BELONG TO THE AZALEA FAMILY?”
KEEPER: “BLOW THE AZALEA FAMILY! IT AM SHRUBS BELONGS TO THE
GARDENS.”
or Jannery John Davies, C.M.G,, who onoe held
the office I He added that future Cabinet-makers
would have to make a note of his statement; in
other words: “If they do not raise me to the pin-
nacle of the ambition of exalted manhood by
making me Postmaster-Jineral, they will have to
appoint someone possessed of the same magnificent
character—the same luminosity of intellect—the
same omniperoipience and the same dauntless
courage as I possess.” Hurroo 1
Thanks to the good Bishop of Ballarat, we
may expect a purification of the Victorian Parlia-
ment after the approaching elections. He has
desired the parsons of his diocese to pray the right
people into the next House, it is doubtful, how-
ever, if even the Bishop will be able to prevent
one or two black sheep slipping into the Parlia-
mentary fold. We fear that the list of “ proper
persons ” will be exhausted before all the M.’sL.A.
are elected. Presuming, for instance, that there
are 100 seats vacant, and only something like 90
“ proper persons ” to fill ’em, no amount of prayer
can prevent a few wrong 'uns stepping in and
drawing their £3OO a year. Providence will do its
best, no doubt, but we dare not hope that jobbery
will be abolisned right away. By the way, it is
significant that neither Graham Berry, Service,
nor Kerferd is seeking re-eleetion. They got wind
of the Bishop’s scheme of prayer and guessed that
their Parliamentary knell was sounded.
The new Queensland Licensing Aot oame
into force on the Ist inst, and is a more
enlightened measure than the N.S.W. law. One
very good provision is that every publican must
affix his name and address on every bottle of beer
or spirits he sells. This provision may often lead
to the identification of unknown drunks In case of
accident. It will be rather difficult to carry out
the prohibitory clause forbidding sale of liquor
to young gentlemen and young ladies under 18
years of age, unless they carry about them birth-
certificates. In N.S.W. we should have to fix the
limit somewhere about 15, for we know of num-
bers of accomplished, steady boosors not yet in
their 17th year. We noticed a boy the other day,
who couldn't have been more than seven, lighting
his cigar-stump from the pipe of an old man of at
least 70; and not very long since we watched a
youth of but 16 take five pints of “ colonial beer ”
before breakfast. True. Sir Henry, we haven’t
got much to learn from the old country—in Borne
things.
The Western Advocate eulogises the
new N.S.W. Ministry. After a preamble de-
voted to Sir John Robertson, whom it considers
the patriot on account of his having “found
homes for the people,” it thus proceeds—” Mr.
Spring will not make any mistake if he fulfils the
instructions of the Premier; Mr. Garrard will not
go far wrong if he obeys Mr. Goodchap and Mr.
Whitton ; Mr. Burns can depend upon the
accuracy of Mr. Geoffrey Eager; Mr. Vaughn will
not go astray if he lets Mr. Harris Wood control
the Mines without let or hindrance; Mr. O’Connor
is good enough for Postmaster-General, for all he
will have to do is to smile, make things pleasant,
attend picnics and banquets, and deliver post-
prandial orations; Mr. Lambton will do actual
work; and Mr. Young will do very well if he is
olever enough to allow matters to remain as they
are.” “It is plain from all this,” remarks the
Armidale Chronicle, “ that there is no need of
any Minister save Sir John Robertson.” And as
Sir John is only partially alive just now, we aren’t
quite sure whether there’s any need for even him.
Mr. Gerald Spring, the new N.S.W. Mini-
ster for Lands, has altered the text of clause 32 of
the Farnell Land Aot to read after the word " un-
measured ” j “ And does not join a measured por-
tion.” This is a return to the practise of all
former administrations by whioh a man could
proceed to take ud an additional conditional pur-
chase without defacing previous surveys. But
pass the cornopean :
Gerald Spring, in Summer weather, with your col-
leagues pull together;
And in Autumn be you always at your leader’s
beck and oall;
In the Winter differ never, lest the " gilded” cord
you sever—
For remember, Gerald, always that the Spring
precedes the fall.
And, Sir John, we’d whisper gently, watch your
new colleagues intently;
Their acts and deeds will hind you—you’ve no
faithful men at back;
You must watch their young law-making, or your
leave you’ll soon be taking,
And with Spring, ere Summer perish, you will
get, like Dibbs, the sack.
Thus the Argus correspondent:—“Hen-
niker Heaton’s triumph at Canterbury is the re-
sult of many months’ arduous wooing of the elec-
tors of Canterbury. The military element dis-
tinctly sympathised with his candidature, for he
posed as the son of an officer of high rank and
ancient and illustrious descent. Mr. Heaton was
fortunate in successfully combating the obje<ftions
raised by the Radieals to the soldiery exercising
their votes, and was rewarded by obtaining the
suffrages of most of the men in the Canterbury
cantonments. . . . Mr. Heaton evidently in-
tends to be an active member. He has already
assured the electors that he has a scheme for the
solution of the problem known as the bitter cry of
outcast London. He and other practical philan-
thropists and capitalists are trying to secure 1500
acres in the suburbs of London, on which they
will erect four-roomed cottages, with fire-places,
grates, and everything perfect, a back garden and
a front flower-garden, and let them to the work-
ingmen at 4s. per week. He believes the State
would lend the money at 3 per cent.” Henniker,
we are ready to bet, will yet be a peer. He ob-
viously possesses all the necessary qualities.
A prominent supporter of the N.S.W. Go-
vernment has been industriously circulating a
statement to the effect that Sir John Robertson
absolutely declined to undertake to form a
Ministry unless Lord Caring ton pledged himself
to grant a dissolution in the event of the new Go-
vernment meeting with an adverse vote in the
House. This is a most ungenerous fabrication. It
is quite a common political trick to talk of a disso-
lution so as to frighten members who have not too
secure a hold on their seats, but we have never
before heard of the dodgery being carried to such
an extreme as is indicated above. How does Lord
Carington appreciate the statement ? He is repre-
sented as being pledged to not only a most ridi-
culous but also a grossly unconstitutional course
of procedure; and, further, his “faithful” ad-
visers would place him in the position of a violent
E artisan. As far as we are aware, Lord Carington
as never displayed any of the qualifications of a
statesman, but we must credit him with having
sufficient commonsense to prevent his being
trapped into such a false position by the members
of a Government the existence of whioh has not,
practically, been recognised by Parliament, and
which, as any untutored myall oould see, does
not represent the intelligence of the Assembly,
Life in Fiji does not seem to be altogether
enjoyable, if we may credit the accounts of ad-
ministrative vagaries as communicated by several
correspondents in that colony. They allege that
whenever the deputies of Downing-street find that
cash is wanted for the publio creditors (which is
constantly the case), the aooounts for years back
are resurrected, and a seoond liquidation sued for.
If the persons indebted can show receipts, they
are of course clear, but if they have lost these,
they must pay again unto the uttermost farthing.
As to the way in which immigration matters are
managed (we quote a correspondent): “Mr. Fatr-
frieve, the late manager of the Colonial
ugar Refining Company, stated in the Supreme
Court that he had never received a oorreot
account from the Immigration
and he was quite sure no accounts, if they could
be called ‘ accounts,’ could be in a more disgrace-
ful state.” This is only the natural result of the
praotioal Irresponsibility of the officials of Fiji.
There is no worse despotism than that of one of
England’s Crown colonies. The administrators are
judge and jury in their own case, and oan flout
any who dare to complain with that insolenoe
whioh is born of impunity, and it is a poor officer
who cannot satisfy Downing-street as to the
necessity of his most arbitrary and tyrannical
actions. Fiji now seems to be writhing in that
stage of official toraldom, whioh, onoe the curse of
New South Wales, has left the scar of the lash and
leg-irons imprinted on the limbs of the ooloriy
to-day.
Biihop Thornton (Anglican), of Ballarat,
known to fame as “ Soapy Sam,” has prepared a
special prayer for the coming Victorian general
election, and has issued same to his flock:—" O,
Almighty Lord and Heavenly Father, we beseech
thee to guide and govern the minds of Thy people
in sincerity and judgment, that being called to
elect just legislators and faithful counsellers to
the head of the State to serve in the Parliament
of this colony, we may, each of us, peroeive botn
the sacredness of this trust whioh Thy Providence
commits to us, and also the greatness of the inter-
ests which depends upon its exercise, and may
oonscientously and wisely make choice of fit per-
sons for this service that religion and virtue,
peace and happiness, truth and justice may
be established for future generations, through
Jesus Christ Our Lord. Amen.” The Archbishop
of Canterbury, it will be remembered, also issued
a speolal prayer on the eve of the last British
general election. He professed to remain politi-
cally neutral. Yet the whole influence of his
Church was strenuously exerted in aid of the
Conservatives to whom Divine Providence saw
fit not to give a majority. So much for political
prayers. Soapy Samuel's little orison reminds us
of a story we once read about a German minister
who was walking in a procession at the head of
his parishioners over cultivated fields, in order to
procure a blessing upon the crops. When he
came to one of unpromising appearance he would
pass on, saying, “ Here prayers and singing will
avail nothing; this must have manure.” The
political soil, Samuel, was never yet in the world’s
history made to bring forth good fruit by any
bishop or any priest.
Mr. R. B. Smith’s party among the free
and independent of Mackay electorate have been
considering the action of Mr. Dangar in challenging
the election of Mr. R. B. Smith. A motion was
unanimously carried, condemning Mr. Dangar’s
action as frivolous and insulting to the electors of
the Macleay. This reminds us of an old election
in 1869, when Mr. R. B. Smith contested the
Hastings aarainst Dr. Horace Dean, and was de-
feated by 115 votes. R. B. challenged the election,
on the grounds that Dean held an office of profit
under the Crown. True enough. Horace was
postmaster at the one-horse village of Tinonee,
drawing the magnificent salary of £lO per year.
The Committee of Elections declared the election
void, and again Horace and Robert Burdett
appealed to the constituency. This time the
doctor defeated the fascinating lawyer by a
majority of something like 900 votes. But
the gallant Bob, though ignominiously routed
all along the line, was not dismayed. He had a
scheme of operations in his eye. Again he chal-
lenged the seat on the ground that the sitting
member was not a naturalised subject of Her
Majesty. The committee investigated the case.
Discovered that the Doctor, though he had been
fifteen years in the colony, and had married and
brought up a family of seven children in N.S.W.,
was still an alien, having had the misfortune to be
born in America. The Doctor was accordingly
ousted, and the seat given to the smart Bob, who
represented a large minority of the Hastings elec-
tors until the next general election. And now
some objectionable and pestilential fellow has
dared to challenge the idol of the Macleay on
frivolous grounds, and the indignant electors are
outrageously scandalised at the insult thus directed
against them.
We have always credited the Hon. Gra-
ham Berry with the possession of that desirable
commodity called “ cheek,” and it has not sur-
prised ub to notice one or two of his recent
vagaries. The other day, when addressing his
constituents at Geelong, he told them that a new
coalition, which would contain Solicitor-General
Deakin as leader of the Liberal section of the
Cabinet, would be very desirable, and Mr. Deakin
would take care that the Protective policy of
Victoria would not be endangered by any Conser-
vative devioes. It is only a little while back since
Chief Secretary Berry launched the Tasmanian
Treaty, whioh was a direct blow at the
Protective policy of the Southern colony.
The other day, at the Liberal caucus, the ver-
satile and wily Graham advised his followers to
continue the coalition, beoause there was a fear
that a return to party Government might place
the balance of power in the hands of the Roman
Catholics who were working to undermine the
Education Act. Now, we remember when Gra-
ham Berry was allied with the iDuffy party in
1872, he was one of the most strenuous opponents
of the Education Aot that Messrs. Francis and
Stephen brought in and passed into law. Those
strange freaks on the part of Mr. Berry do not,
however, surprise m much. For many years he
has passed as a staunch Liberal, and it is not long
since he told the electors that “he was always a
good Conservative; in fact, he had never been
within a thousand miles of being a Radical.” The
hon. gentleman says he intends to return to Vic-
toria and re-enter public life, after he has drawn
£3OOO per annum for three years in England as
Agent-General, but we imagine that the Radicals
of Victoria, after his desertion of them, are not
likely to again rooeive him with open arms.
One of the worst features of Victorian
Liberalism is that it is espoused by religious bigots
and hypocrites, psalm-singers, “ ranters,” lip-
loyalists, and Orangemen, who get into political
prominence by pandering to the worst passions,
and feeding the worst prejudices of the com-
munity. The other day Mr. Berry’s Parliamentary
followers met at his office in Melbourne to consider
whether or not the Coalition Ministry should be
continued. Professor Pearson, of the Age, who is
reported to be a good judge of bell-wethert, was
there ; so also were ex-Hon. Richard Riohardson
(the Grand Master of the Orangemen), who some
few months ago was compelled to resign his posi-
tion as an Executive Councillor; the pious George
Washington Hall; those shining lights of the
Orange order—John James, Mr. Wren, Mr. Russell,
and Jack Gardiner: and those other sanctimonious
senators—Messrs. Bell, Baker, Graham, Nimmo,
D. M. Davies, A. Young, “Bob” Reid, and Dr.
Rose. Professor Pearson (acting, we suppose,
under instructions from David Syme, of the AGE,
whose mission seems to be to keep the No-Popery
cry to the front at all times) declared his aversion
to a further continuance of the Coalition, but ex-
pressed his fear of a combination between: Conser-
vatives and Catholics; and the goody-goody
Richardson was afraid that if the Liberals did not
come back strong enough trouble would arise
from the Papists, who would dictate their own
terms. The saintly G. W. Hall warned the meet-
ing that “in his electorate—the Moira—the Catho-
lics were placing every available man on the
rolls, and were shaping for a strong fight whilst
other pious M.’sL.A. followed on the same track.
Victorian Liberalism must indeed be in a very
sorry plight if it requires such stuff as this to lead
it again to victory. As a matter of fact, the men
who pursue these disreputable tactics are men of
the Lloyd, Abigail, and Parkes stamp—men desti-
tute of politioal principles, who are only too glad
to descend to any contemptible artifice that will
enable them to gain success. The Education Act
in Victoria has nothing to fear from the Catholics,
who only number between a fourth and a fifth of
the whole population, but the cause of Liberalism
has something to fear from exponents of the
Richardson, Pearson, Hall, James, and Gardiner
stamp.
* • m
Sir Charles Dilke, Mr. Chamberlain, Mr.
Norwood, and other wealthy men, had their elec-
tion expenses paid for them. Mr. Leicester,
member for West Ham, and other labour candi-
dates have had to pay their expenses.
If you are ordered Schnapps your medical
attendent naturally supposes you get Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Clouds of amber, dreams of gladness,
Dulcet joys, and sports of youth,
Soon must yield to solemn sadness—
Meroy hold# the veil to truth.
Summerlield just now is selling
Suits that ought to take the “ bun,”
In their style and price excelling
Aught that’s sold beneath the sun.*
Mb. Da Cotjbot Bbownb (late Deputy
Wales), Author of the Miners’ Handy Book,
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guido,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Arbitrator, Adviser,
and Mining Titles Agent. Beresford Chambers,
53 C»stl@reagh-street, Sydney.*


w
JEczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
Scrofula on Neckw
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases ©f the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticuba Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticuba and Cuticuba Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Tiles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticuba Soap and a single application of
Cuticuba, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticuba Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent, Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticuba Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
hook, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Austbalian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South. Wales.
I/TUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fler, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cere (a Medicinal
Jelly;for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sua-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
Never Travel Without It.
Wanted in Every House.
1%
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS.
ALLNOXIOUS iWAFrTS^
; FLEAS, FU ES, BEETLES MOSQUITOES
ANPIS
AT THE SAM 17 riM c QUITE
I HARMLESS TO BIROS HOGS,
FOWLS OR OTHER
ANIMALS
if 1
UPA'AF D '
chemists!
A$D storekeepers!
<7AU
FELTON-CRIMWADE.'tLCc
MELBOURNE
Every Souse.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
pARINGTON MEWS,
l6B Phillip Street,
LIVERY, BAIT, and COMMISSION BTABLFS.
Wedding Orders punctually attended to.
Four-in-hand Brakes, Landaus, Buggies, and
Saddle Horses on hire at the shortest notice.
J. BOOTH & CO.,
Proprietors.
AWfOOO, RESTORED I
Tl '
J PREMATURE DECAY, &c., bu M
S?.S»"V • im^. l6 SELF-CuAe, wU*,ta|
”* •“'* of •nffonnghumanity, he will send FREE
Prescription which cOftib htaT-EMKK
“ f-addreeaed stamped envelope— 1
E. A. CLARICK, P.O. Box MS, Sydney.
YANKEE DOODLE
oo
Oit
ov»
m
C:
-SON
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
i^ss-SISn
U - w KOHf JJ
V====i M£'s£~ = x
‘Aoup«s ‘SNOS V HOBXIQ
Possess the largest Factory, Manufacture more
Tobacco, and consume more American Leaf
tban any faetory in the southern hemisphere.
YANKEE DOODLE, CONQUEROR, Bir Roger, Champion, and Dixaon’s Cut Tobaccos.
BUDGEREE!
!!
Trade
Mark.
NO MORE FEVER.
The BUDGEREE DISINFECTANT is the most wonderful Germ-killer and Fever
destroyer known. No household should be without it, as it instantly kills all bad
smells arising from olosdts, bad drains, &o. Sold at all chemists.
Depot: JAS. C. STEEL, Bulletin-lane, Lower Pitt-st.
CO
w
<=^>
C-J
CO
JOO
f TNIQUH FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
y) Crispness distinguish Wilsoa’sAme-
riosa “EHm Toast ’’BIBCUITB. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert
nothin* equals them. Delloious with
milk, superb with wine, and ineomparible
with coffee or oheese.
TURNER & CO., ■ **??,* I? 11,1 *
Sole Agents, frond j *
74 Sussex Strmt, Byd nit.
fase Jfetaaier:
P
Wf ILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
»f of MUSIC in the city,
dusic.—Newest Sonars, Pieces, Dances, &o.
Church Musio, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Ac.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues can be had gratis on applica-
tion.
stationery.—Account Boohs, Letter and Note
Papers, &c., at lowest prices.
Printing.—lnvoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly,
looks for Presents and School Prizes, hi paroels,
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed,
ilbums. Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, Ac.
Musio and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Christmas and ether Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock,
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines. , _ /
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever invented. The Trypograpn
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
whioh is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies
8. nd and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
842 GEORGE STREET.
-A.Tor©JaLaaao.’s
Pllla
The Great Liver Remedy.
P andellon ’ “ d free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ;so simple, yet most effective; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of pracftoW ex-
Ksnce. They overcome the worst form of
ases of the Liver, Stomaoh, Head and Kidneys.
tanla/wAIT' thw h,ye not “ or *' l
434 GE.'RGE STREET.
WIDE. DE NQUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that It is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
“ UUJ starched linen, * * aw >**( ).
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at Bd. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E. Prosser
PARISIAI#>
Beware of spurious and worthless Imitations
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
J. BDTTaBFIBLV. Cheml>t,l4lj|j^)^ik
Llxiean. G-loss
ALL THE MOST
[Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS.
American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
27 YORE STREET,
SYDNEY.
specially imported for city or country use
TAB OLD ESTABLISHED
or! .nnoroj!.*!i i.»n ~A .; >< ViiiiiiA
American Carnage
EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY,
AT
LOWEST PRICES.
i i
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
K ii I 'Tfiil iA A iR
W EVERY VEHICLE GUARANTEED


Ben Butler.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We were camped at Bulladulla, on the broad Cun-
WbereVweatlfer-bound, we pitched our tents, and
*• bunar out ” for a week, . .
And many a racy story of back-block life was
Of stockmen, bushmen, pioneers, and outlaws,
was a hero, Frank Gardiner akinsr.
While bol i Ben Hall and Mitchell were pronounced
In sooth! ic seemed a favourite and never-failing
of these prophets of the Annexation
And B many e kta’e of hair-breadth 'scape, by field
and flood, was told,
As hour by i*our the camp fire rcund the wordy
•• And that reminds me,” said old Joe (though why
Fur the previously-told story with his did not fit
i‘Of W y e Q l| ''ng Ben Butler's short career, a wasted
* A woman bottom of it?’ Yes, there
We*! flU^y our pipes ard listen: Young Ben was
Be'ore th VbearTto silver turned weusedto make
ForVnoney there was plenty, and a man could
I’m speahiog'now of '53, and early
Few secrets lay between us ; we were trustful
But i l no’ti*e^, s ofr, when love was mentioned, Ben
would ‘ hold Ws tongue ’; , . .
He never talked with me of love, or womankind,
Though often in his troubled sleep, a word or two
Wen,°tblngs went on a hum-drum way about a
a decent little pile, it ran to figures
AncTßen and I were both agreed to have a run to
LookTound, and go the pace a bit, then home and
I sweetheart, then, in dear old distant
I always meant to wed her, when I’d raised a bit
But°lh!n!l wrote and asked her would she be a
say I'd left it Just a year too
l’m just as well without her,free
I’m'happler than a married follow, always in one
ThatViras ’the first and only time Ben spoke of love
He,Vo™ had left a sweetheart in that land beyond
And no w with wealth, and health, and strength,
and brave in manhood spride, { J , ~
To fold his darling in his arms, once more he d
A home* England would be his and her’s
* I’ll °be* the happiest man alive,’ said Ben, ‘ when
* I jmowmvNefl is true as steel, though some-
To think thatfifteen thousand miles should part
_ i||no onM Iftd • , •*— —*
But we’ll go home a month hence or the reason
Poor A month from then he'd gone whence
Ws D we?i t* Vo *Me 1 bou me, not the place that Mel-
A little ertty lively In a feverish kind of way.
Just budding from the infancy of canvas, bark,
To bdck'and stone-built dignity, as wealth came
A hcuieto?uttus next we found, where lodgers
For°peoP^e d *new,’ In those tini'B even, lodgers
We vk wed 6 the n \k fant oity; it had grown since
aYhektre or two and houses of less
In fSKU U now, ’twas then the proper place
To knock"a hard-earned cheque down easy Mel-
WeSk a fn W hlu-a-aoTen drinks-at that a man
and sudden came a shout, and then
behind us as we mingled with
Andhe’pVdtoform a buoket line, though ’twasa
At last we* gave it best, and watched the fire fiend
WbS Z |t t ‘an P u a os e talrB window there appeared a
The^crowd* waa°’pr etty noisy, as at such times
Bnt Pe whe e n W t e bat vision came to light an awe-
“ atnick hush was there. , . .
One’s fancy oould imagine her an angel down in
She waited but the wings to make her fit the pic-
Herface was pale and bloodless, her hands were
And Cl m B en e who d'face r k cannon’s mouth could only
Tlll*Snspoke r sharply, ‘ Rig a line, rm going up
l’ve a g°o V t e a little girl at home, the only one I love
Her fet to-night may be the same as that poor
I’ll trytosave 1 her?*if I fail there’s men enough
All thisVyo e u know, f did not take long, five minutes
Since fiVat we saw tier till a rope was through the
r%r> window cast. |\ W\\t\tt\
To that a length of windlass chain was fastened
on, and then , , .
’Mid cheers from hearty British throats, hand over
hand went Ben. ...
The fiery tongues of flame kept snapping at him
as he passed. , , ,
We held our breath suspended till he reached her
And theD, well then, you’ll nearly guess what hap-
pened after that, .
I know I jumped the roof olean through a fifteen
shilling hat. ~
A basket had been roughly rigged to travel on the
chain, , .
And anxiously we watched Ben lift her in and
lower sgain;
She reached the ground in safety, free from hurt,
but faint with fright, , .
Where women folk were waiting to attend to her
that night:
While Ben was lifted shoulder high and carried
through the street,
And half the mob was fighting to know who
should stand the treat.
Next morning Bon and I strolled down to where
the fire had beeD,
And, standing in a doorway near, we saw the flra
queen
Ben caught his breath and staggered (and, trip-
ping, 1 1 nost fell); , . „ _ ,
But ho muttered thickly,‘Joel ByHeavenl why
tint's my little Neill’
You see Bbe d made no sign of knowing Ben be-
l®re at all,
-Though she must have seen him plainly as he
climbed that burning wall.
’Twas she (as 1 learned afterwards'—she was the
P' little Nell
He’4 left behind ia England, but my mate would
never tell , . , .
What passed between them when he saw her later
iu the day;
Enough to say he took to grog and drimk his life
away.
I stuck beside him till it ended I just a month from
then. ...
The earth was piled above the place where lay my
comrade, Ben; , x . ,
The girl I Ohl she was married to some rich
chap at home. ,
A lady now ? Of course she is, hut, hoys Ithe day
will come, ,
When she before the] Great White Throne bestript
of wealth shall kneel, „ . . .
To have her case heard by that Court from which
there’s no appeal; . ......
And then, if Heaven is for the good while bad
folks go to hell, ~
I’d sooner take Ben's chance of wings than that
of * Little Nell.’ ”
Wolfe’s Schnapps. There are doubtless
other preparations typified as Schnapps but they
are as a counterfeit coin is to current metal.
Balmy sleep, good digestion, rich blood,
elastio step and cheerfulness in American Co.’s
Hop Bitters. Read and believe
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla acts directly and
promptly to purify and enrich the blood, improve
the appetite, strengthen the nerves, and brace up
the system. It is, therefore, in the truest sense,
an alterative medicine. Every invalid should give
it a trial.
MaoLaughlin’s Bodega, 306 George-street
near Hunter-street. Wines from the best vine
yards of Australia—by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Cold Luncheons, &c.*
Here is Summer upon us, causing a mighty
thirst. Don’t fail to obtain your supply of Lemon-
ade, seltzer, Soda Water, Ginger Ale, Tonic, Potasi
and LRhla Water (for Gout), of Dalm and Oertel,
/Erated Water and Cordial Manufacturers, 403 Pitt-
street. Delivered regularly in town and suburbs *
The wearied and anxious business man
should use Wolfe’s Schnapps-
J, TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
M A RKBi' CLOTH HALL,
478 Gaorga-straat,
Established 1864,
HAS TH* LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY, „ TOa
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURER’,
ty Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect nt
guaranteed.
QUOD PACIMUS VALDB PACIMUB.
(What we do we do well.)
-yon* PHOTO.-If you are
■ undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ao-
oept what Is but well-meant
couusel, and pay first a visit to
the vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries In the Sydney
Arcade. There you oan inspect an
arrayof portraiture, not of select-
ed specimens, but theevery-dav
work of Creelman and Co.,whicL
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice In their favour.
You will thereby be but endors-
lnir the almost universal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as potographers.
Prioes-C-D-V.,; Cabinets* 30s. per dozen.
CKEELMAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, SYDNEY ARCADE.
REMEMBER THIS,
IF YOU ARE 810 K.
If you are sick, HOP BITTERS will
Surely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else l'ails.
If you are comparatively well, but feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any of the numerous
diseases of stomach or bowels, it is
your own fault if you remain ill, for
American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
aess, Nervousness, you will find a “Balm
in Gilead ” in the use of American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of malarial,
epidemic, bilious and intermittent
fevers—by the use of American Co’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, American HOP
BITTERS will give you fair skin, rich
blood, the sweetest breath, health, and
comfort. In short, they cure ALL
Diseases of the Stomach, Bowels,
Blood, Liver, Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
.£5OO
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
American Hop Bitters, costing but a
trifle.
Will you let them suffer T
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
American Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doe-
tors’ bills to pay.
nee If the name of Dr. Soule is blown
In every bottle, If not It Is counterfeit.
WILLIAM BALL,
THE “PROFESSIONAL” AND PHARMACETT-
TICAL CHEMIST.
61 Bourke-street East, Melbourne.
nriHE Toilet and Theatrical Requisites, manu-
JL factored by W Ball, are composed of the
purest ingredients, and are guaranteed not to
cause the least injury to the most delicate skin.
There are few ladies now, either in private life
or of the Theatrical Profession, who do not look
upon the
BLOOM OF PEACHES
(REGISTERED)
as the one article that is perfectly safe and satis-
factory to use either for the
THEATRE, BALLROOM, OR PROMENADE.
■■ •• •
Our.Chpids Manufacturing Bloom of Peaches
“Dear Sir,—l consider your ‘ make-up perfect,
and should never think of using anything else
while it is possible to obtain it—Yours truly,
Ed. Farley.”
The following ladies and gentlemen have also
written, speaking in the highest terms of these
Toilet Requisites Mesdames Louise Pomeroy,
Alice Deorwyne, Myra Kemble, Eva Davenport,
Roland Watt Phillips, etc., etc.; Messieurs George
Titheradge, George Uignold, Sheridan, Henry
Hodgson, W. J. Holloway, Fred. Marshall, Brian
Darley, Frank Cates, etc.
To be obtained of all Chemists.
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
Wholesale Agents, N.S.W.;
Messrs. PROSSER & CO., Sydney.
LIMITED,
356 George-strant,
Have the
LARGEST AND BIST
SELECTED STOCK
of
PIANOS, ORGANS
and
MUSIC
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST
EASY TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM,
Every Instrument Guaranteed,
Catalogues & Prices on Application,
W.H. PALING & Co
356 Georse-strect, Sydney,
m
$>
4
G
O
<ir
O
MARK
TRAOI
tsi
<*■
c"
W
¥z
■^j
sO
a
s>
CROSS
4
r*
o
o
.M
D
BULL DOG ALB.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MBDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award giveni
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burt
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in u
choicest possible condition by ordering BULLi#
ALE, whioh is to be obtained of all the IeMJ
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTELL & 8
Bole Agents.
DR. THOM
may be consulted on Al ,
Nervous Debility, Skin and Contagious Affect!#
Medical Establishment, 203. Elizabeth-street,
near Bathurst-street.
Hours: 9 till 10 daily.
Dr. Thomas is the only medical man advert*
in Australia who has passed the degrees of anffl
lish Physician and Surgeon. Examinations ptt
—Licentiate of the Royal College of Physic*
London, 1804; Member of the Royal College
Surgeons, Loudon, 1859.
TO Country Journalists.—Leaders, Telegtt
and Sydney Letters, supplied by comP»
literary man of long experience, on mo™
terms. *• Beta,” Bin, let in Office.
P9U9na*!«B3
OBTAINABLE JBOM ALL GBOOEB/S ANI) STOREKEEPERS.
ytijauq mu
.aaoißT Tsawoi
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S
T?T=~!T .TP
Ml WES, TREACLE AND GOLDEN SIM
ft ’
Self-raising JErated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
A*" Y > Infants’ Food, &c.
FOR SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.
a * A have obtained First Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney 1.8., 1880; Special Gobi Me
I. *A. have obtained »»»•« Award% Melbourne> 1881 . a ” d T wo Gold Medals, Calcutta LB. 1883-4.
Sydney Agents i W. H. ARIELL ft CO., 343 and 340 Knnt-Strant.


or
SI
ECONOMICALSURNITURE
ifrt E CDWOMSWL FURNITIIR
Si
m
«: -I ,
/ V_V_
/ / -/ i
a- THE largest and only legitimate
FURNITURE WARE-
HOUSE IN THE COLONY,
365 PITT STREET.
essssfegn
Rie OROS
R
x=->
FESSENGEofUFK
ie only intamnle remedy for
//ERybifsJjEßiLijYT
(nr HERE are many men in this colony who are,
i day by day, melancholy, miserable, and o
burden to themselvep, through early indiscretion
or over-indulgence. It is to those that this adver
tisement is addressed. Impotence drags its victim
in its unhappy train through years of suffering,
rendering bw existence a misery. He sees his
fellow beings ha'e, hearty, and vigorous—in the
full enjoyment of manhood’s greatest privilege
and naturally becomes despondent, seeking soli-
tariness, and shunning society generally.
He is lured into trying some of the So-called
Remedies, hut without avail, and imagines he
must go down to the grave a hopeles« invalid. If
aueh be your calamity, know that your case can
be relieved and a Cure effected by a simple course
of this Invaluable Medicine, which will, in the
short space of Four Weeks, reader you capable
of appreciating and Knioylng UE?.
This valuable remedy affords relief, and perma-
nently cu«B8 all who suffer from Wasting and
Withering of the Nerve u-* and Muscular Tissuee,
Spermatorrhoea, and all Uiinary Deposits, which
cause iocap <city and degeoeracy, total and partial
prestration, ana every other exhaustive derange-
ment of the system-regenerating ail the im-
ports nt elements of the human fj am», and en-
abling man to fulfil his most sacred obligations.
The directions are very simple, and require no
restraint or hindrance from business. Pamphlets
enclosed in each pase with testimonials.
|n cases at JSs , or four quantities in one, for 363.;
if by poach, Bi'. 6d. extra. City and suburbs free.
Agents for Sydney :
Messrs. W. BARCLAY & CO.,
43 GtoULBURN Street,
One door from George Street, South.
Parcels, paoked ssourely, and free from obser-
vation, sent to any part of the colony on receipt
of Notes, P< st Office Order, or Postage Stamps,
with the greatest promptitude.
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN,
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
I..URALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHAC I.E,
RAINS, BRUISES, 3URNS. SCALP 3, &c- and
aken internally cures DIARRHCEA, R YSEPJ
JRAMPS, COLIC, and all other vutferns achei
.nd pains. .
Price, 0/“ Sold Evcijwltere,
C. E. MOULTON, sole prop: r. :or o
VI TR T/I3OXJE3ST jL AND o'-DISTE'X.
PAINT
* i
AR
o.tiALL.
w
TRADE MARK-* 1 TONIC NERVINE.”
A bajbb, OKivi’AiN, & SPEED If CURB tor Ner-
A youB and. General Debility, and all complaint!
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
Ac. By its tonlo and soothing efleots it at onoe
removes all oravlng for Aloohol. By its richness
in phosphorous and other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL’S TONIC NRRVINB nour-
ishes and gives vigour t« the whole system,
rioe, is. (id., or 86s. a oase Bold everywhere.
">prtetora. MARSHALL BROTHERS. Registered
< ii mists, 104 6 Marset-st., Sydney. N.B.—Allimi-
l.,Uvios illegal. TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
PAUL LIEBE
UNLIKE OTHERS
t
m
0
cH!
f°3
FROM
ALCHEMISTS
1NI0&200Z BOT s
WHOLESALE AGENT
AYER’S
Cherry Pectoral.
No other complaints are so insidious in their
attack as those affecting the throat and lungs:
none so trifled with by the majority of suffer-
ers. The ordinary cough or cold, resulting
perhaps from a trifling or unconscious ex-
posure, is often but the beginning of a fatal
sickness. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral has
well proven its efficacy in a forty years’ fight
with throat and lung diseases, and should be
taken in all cases without delay.
A Terrible Cougli Cured.
“In 18571 took a severe cold, which affected
my lungs. I had a terrible cough, and passed
night after night without sleep. The doctors
gave me up. I tried Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral, which relieved my lungs, induced
sleep, and afforded mo the rest necessary
for the recovery of my strength. By the
continued use of the Pectoral a perma-
nent cure was effected. I am now 62 years
old, hale and hearty, and am satisfied your
Cherry Pectoral saved me.
Horace Fairbrother.”
Rockingham, Yt., July 15, 1882.
Croup. A Mother’s Tribute.
“"While in the country last winter my little
boy, three years old, was taken ill with croup;
it seemed as if he would die from strangu-
lation. One of the family suggested the use
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, a bottle of
which was always kept in the house. This
was tried in small and frequent doses, and
to our delight in less than half an hour the
little patient was breathing easily. The doc-
tor said that the Cherry Pectoral had
saved my darling’s life. Can you wonder at
our gratitude ? Sincerely yours,
Mrs. Emma Gedney.”
159 West 128th St., New York, May 16, 1882.
“ I have used Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
in my family for several years, and do not
hesitate to pronounce it the most effectual
remedy for coughs and colds we have ever
tried. A. J. CRANE.’’
Lake Crystal, Minn., March 13,1882. a
“ I suffered for eight years from Bronchitis,
and after trying many remedies with no suc-
cess, 1 was cured by the use of Ayer’s Cher-
ry Pectoral. Joseph Walden.’
Byhalia, Miss., April 5,1882.
“ I cannot say enough in praise of Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral, believing as I do that
but for its use I should long since have died
from lung troubles. E. BRAG DON.”
Palestine, Texas, April 22, 1882.
No case of an affection of the throat or
lungs exists which cannot be greatly relieved
by the use of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
and it will always cuts when the disease is
not already beyond the control of medioine.
PREPARED by %
Dp. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists, a
ELLIOTT BROS, and 8. HOFFNUNG & CO-
Wholesale Agents.
CONTINUED SUCOEBB
OF
RILEY BROTHERS’
ORIGINAL
£5 DEAFER! DALES!
PACKED in CANVAS, and INSURED against
LOSS,
tST" Carriage paid by mail all over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
The £5 Bale system has been in operation for 12
years, during which time we have despatched ovei
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe,
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
*5 LADY’B BALE.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies' Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
of Rood longcloth, and
nicely trimmed. If de-
sired, other articles may
be ordered instead of
any of the above.
MOURNING RALE.
25 yds, Blk. French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 doz. Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 r-ady’B Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
GLOVES.
On receipt of 3b. In
stamps, wo send, post
free, a pair of 2 or 4-
button kid or silk Gloves
any size or colour, good
quality and fashionable.
For accouchements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Kobe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £5.
158.
We send, carriage free,
a Lady’s Now Accouche-
ment Belt for fifteen
shillings, or a pair of best
Nursing Stays for ten
shillings.
DRESSMAKING.
"We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided ox r by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials-Silks, Velvets, &c.—with
Brices, and full Instruction for self-measurement,
! applied to.
RILEY BROTHERS,
165 Oxford Street, Sydney.
Originators of the celebrated £5 Bales of Drapery
ROWLANDS' ODONTO is the best, purest
and most fragrant preparation for the leetb.
Healtn depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly he as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non gritty tooth powder; such
Rowlands’ Odonto has always proved itself to be.;
ROWLANDS FUKONIA is a beautifully
pure, delicate, and lregraet toilet i owder, and
has lately been much improved. Each box has
Inside the lid a certificate of purity from Dr.
Redwood. Ph D , F.O.S , &c. Sold in three tints :
white, rose, and cream.
ROWLANDS MACASSAR OIL can now
be also had in a golden eolour, which is especially
suited for f»iror golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
article*, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
Bpurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents -Eli/tot Bros.
E. Prosser & Co , Sydney.
Everybody i
SHOULD USE ]
PEMELL'S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IS MADE FBOM THE BEST WHEAT
ta a Mill replete with the newest and meat approved
New Process Maclunery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
la GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
BSI »eor*e-street, Sydney.
m.
UMBRELLAS
m&QVEMEk
DTUDY BOON 0M 7
k 3 and
a'aveyourUmbrella Frame*
re-eoverod, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Bta
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. R«u*lr« naattarex*-
ANNUAL CHRISTMAS FESTIVAL.
PEAPES and SHAW
Invite special attention to their large assortmen t rf
FANCY ARTICLRB, BUITABLE FOR
PHKBENTATION.
They comprise almost
EVERY CONCEIVABLE ARTICLE OF LUXURY
PEAPES & SHAW’S
ELEGANT
ARTICLES
for
PRESENTATION.
f Ladies’ Hand Bags, with
and without tittiDgS
I The largest stock of beau-
tlful Fans in the city
Scent Gaskets, Boudoir
Nicnacß
Card Cases, in silver,
ivory, pearl, and Rus-
sian leather
Purses, Memo. Tablets,
Pocket Books
Cabinet and Carte-de-
Yisite Screens
Photo. Cases, Photo.
Frames, Albums
Pocket Mirrors, Tourists’
Cases, Writing Cases,
Writing Desks
Fitted Dressing Cases
L and Bags, &o.
PICNIC LUNCHEON BASKETS, 3<*
ail sizes.
HILDEGARDE,
the new game of cricket for l&diea.
PARLOUR, FIELD, and LAWN GAMES,
in great variety.
PEAPES & SHAW’S
GRANT)
ASSORTMENT
Of
TOYS and GAMES.
f Lavra Tennis Sets. Cricket
ditto, Croquet ditto,
Ringolette, James, the
Janitor, Parlour Skit-
tles, Toys for the little
ones, Solitaires, Ger-
man Tactics.
Mechanical Toys, Horses,
Dogs, Cows, Sheep, Rab-
bits, Monkeys, Rocking
Horses, &0., &c.
Work Baskets. Work
Boxes, Combination
Boxes of Games, Com-
L bination Boxes of JZoys.
DOLLS, DOLLS, DOLLB, LOVELY DOLLS.
BOY DOLLS, GIRL DOLLS, BABY DOLLS
TALKING DOLLS, CRYING DOTiLS,
LAUGHING DOLLS, SLEEPING DOLLS.
JUST OPENED,
the
NEW CARINGTON SQUARE-SHAPED
PARASOLS.
COME AND SEE THEM. _ ,
They are the Fashionable Novelty of the Day!
324, 326, 328 George-rtreet.
NERVOUS DEBILITY,
Lost Vitality, &C.--A simple and positive
means of Self-Cure, by an eminent
French Hospital Physician- Sent Free
Medico, P.O. Box 766. Sydney.
SOMETSraG N"E w!
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC HAIR CURLER
Ladies or Gentlemen who wish to quickly and
fashionably dress, crimp er curl the hair, beard
or moustache, by a new method, or to possess
sound, white teeth and rosy gums are
to read the brief but interesting descrip'
tion of these new inventions
Dr. SCOTT’S
Electric Appliances are now
sold and welMtencrwn in
every part of the world
ana are guaranteed
by the Pall Mall
Eleotric
Association.
m
GREAT
ANNOYANCE
has been caused
to all people using
tooth brushes by the
bristles coming out in
the mouth. The Pall
Mall Electric Associ-
ation now take pleasure
-
in introducing to the Aus-
tralian public a Tooth Brush, which they 1
guarantee free from this troublesome defect. '
The bristles are inserted in the handle by a
patent process, which renders it simply
Impossible to come out in use. In ad-
dition to this, the handle of the Brush is
made of a newly invented material perma-
nently charged with an electro-magnetio
current, which acts without' any shock
immediately upon the nerves and tissues
of the teeth and gums. The act of
brushing causes tms current to flow
into the nerve cells and roots of
the teeth, and, like water poured
upon a plant, it invigorates and
vitalizes every mrt, arresting
decay, building “tip and re-
storing the natural white'
ness of tho enamel and
quickly producin
healthful, rosy-
coloured gums.
The handle is strong.
beautifully polished,
' r, J'
not affected by acids,
impervious to
moisture, and free
from that un-
pleasant musty
odour exu-
ding from
wet bone
handles.
' TUB
PALL MALL
Electric
ASSOCIATION
Now offer to the Aus-
tralian public their new
Electric Hair, Beard &
Moustache Curler, it
is a handsome article, nickel-
plated, with an ebonized handle, and it
should occupy a place in the toilet of
every lady and gentleman in Australia.
By its aid, the hair, beard, or moustache
can lie curled in any desired'style in from
one to two minutes. For ladies, it produces
the.“ Langtry Style,” the “ Patti Bang,” th«
‘Montague Curl,” and any other styles
desired by ladies wearing their hair in the
fashionable “lapse and fluffy” mode.
Those who wear waves er other forms
ofartifleial hair will find this Electric
Curler a very useful article. It does
not break off and ruin the hair,
like the ordinary'esimping pro-
cess, and in wet or hot weather
it works as quickly as in cold.
For curling the Moustache
or Beard in a moment, it
has no equal, while it is
so simple in its opera-
tion that any one (A
either sex cam use it
successfully the first
time, had oH At
Directions o
accompany
each Curie?.
V M |
■ -• T
►•ml
▼H
rJ«»H .]!
*>d*
-«to«
Lanxnr, B!TOi*aitt>.
Dr. ScoTt, New York.
Yonr “ Crimper and Curlef'
works charmingly. Its effect
causes universal admiration.
They are most simple to use. I
consider them worth a guinea apiece
to those who devote much attention to
the ever-changing arrangement of the
Hair. L. LANGTRY.
Carltov Club, Lokdon, W.
Dr. Scott’s “Electric Curler" curls the Moustache
and Beard most perfectly. My wife uses them in
crimping her Hair with pleasing results. Col. D.W.Gs
The Royal Dental Society of London testify in the strongest
terms as to the quick benefits following the use of Dr. Scott's
Electric Tooth Brush, and many experts in dentistry declare it to
be the greatest invention in dental appliances since the manufacture
Of artificial teeth.
Under Royal
and
Distinguished
Patronage.
cliic
$
&?EEt
Health ensured by using
Hr. Scott’s Beautiful Electric
Corsets, Belts, Electric Hair,
Flesh, and Tooth Brushes*,
or Insoles.
All Goods manufactured
by Dr. Scott bear this label.'
'H i > J'Viii-fi f >dT tuQ
BEWARE OP
WORTHLESS
IMITATIONS.
Price, 2s tkl/eacli, of all chemists and storekeepers; or the; two
direct, post free, for 7s. ' -
Remittances can be made by cheque, P. 0.0., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
B 4 Hargarat-straet, Sydney.
P.O. BOX, 221.


HEATONIANA.
*sThe followiDg is the circular to the eleo-
tors of Canterbury, elsewhere referred to in this
issue:—“ To the E'ectors of Canterbury. Gentle-
men,—Like many other Australians, I have been
much surprised at Mr. J Benniker Heaton's
audacity in standing as the Conservative candidate
for Canterbury. 1 know it is difficult to suppress
sueh a pushiDg obtruiive person, but I am sure if
tha electors of your city knew him es well as he Is
known In Sydney, they would deal with him as old
the people of N.S.W. when he once ventured to
claim their suffrages. Now, what is Mr. Henniker
Heaton, and on what grounds can he ask you to
elect Him to Parliament ? Mr. Heaton claims to
have been born in Canterbury, but nobody has
seen the certificate, and to ail intents and pur-
poses he is a stranger to the city. He has had no
experience of English politics, and his Conserva-
tive qualities must be very new born, for the
Sydney Evening News, of which he claims to be
part-owner, is a Radioal organ—the most advanced
in all the Australian colonies. Having such an
association, how came Mr- Heaton to be taken up
by the Conservative party ? You, gentlemen of
Canterbury, may know sufficient of your local
Wire-pullers, but you do not know how, la this
instance, they have been led to accept a nominee
Of the Carlton and St. Stephen’s Clubs, in prefer-
ence to giving honour to some good local man,
known to all men. It was through the Tory chiefs
in London that Mr. Heaton has been foisted upon
your constituency, and Mr. Heaton gulled these
chiefs to believe that he was a great man in Sydney,
and a rich man, willing to spend his money in the
Conservative cause. By joining a Conservative
club he came to know a few leading publio men.
Then followed the usual dinner, luncheons, and
receptions which form so prominent a part among
the duties of modern Veneerings, and those who
wish to push themselves into society. Papers ii«e
the Court Journal and Morning Post publish
these private entertainments, and give all
the guests-on being heavily paid for it.
This sort of machinery has been well work el
by Mr. Heaton. Many who know the colonial
status of the man have been annoyed to receive
his invitations, and disgusted to find that even
when they declined his hospitality he advertised
their names, as being present, in the newspapers
above referred to. When tbe country was ringing
with enthusiasm over the conduct of our N.S.W.
J. HENNIKER HEATON.
Government in sending a contingent of troops to
Suakim, Mr. Heaton caused it to be announced in
tho London Press that he intended to give £lOOO
towards the cost of that contingent, ask him if
he has carried out that promise. You will find
that he shields his purse behind the donation of
£lOOO given by the proprietors of the Evening
News. In other ways Mr. Heaton has lest no op-
portunity to keep himself before the British pub-
lic. He has claimed to be in this country the
unanimously-elected delegate of tty i people of
Mauritius, and to have secured for them, by his
influence with Lord Derby, the boon of self-
government. The Mauritius Sentinel (see Can-
terbury Press of August 1) has sharply attacked
Mr. Heaton for this unwarrantable assumption.
The method in which Mr. Heaton uses his oppor-
tunities is well illustrated in these Mauritius inci-
dents. He happened to be on the same ship as Sir
J. P. Hennessy, the Governor, to whom he made
himself agreeable. They became friends. The
Governor espoused the cause of reform, and a
•mall committee, acting for the native party in the
island, acoepted Mr. Heaton's volunteered services
to attend to their interests in London. Mr. T.
Dickson, a well-known gentleman in the island
writes:—‘l am not in a position to say how many
visits Mr. Heaton has paid Mauritius. He may have
been here frequently and we may quite as often
have entertained an angel unawares. This should
he a reproach to us, for tbe only notice that was
taken of Mr. Heaton was the infertion of his
name in the passenger lists of tbe steamers,’ and
he adds: ‘Nine-teDtbs of the reform committee
knew nothing of Mr. Heaton's famous appoint-
ment.’ But the Supremo juke of Mr. Heaton’s
connection with Mauritius is iound in his dealings
with Mr. Harold White’s bag of dispatches. ‘At
considerable rißk’ he carried these dispatches in
his portmanteau from Keunlon to the British
agent at Aden. The Times (duly instructed by
Mr.Heaton) announced tdis great achievement;
Mr. Heaton himself published all the dttails of
his daring enterpiise, and at length tho public
really began to believe that this great representa-
tive Australian had narrowly eecaped a Frenota
yard-arm. Captain Boyle, however, pricked the
bubble reputation which Mr. Beaton had en-
deavoured to make, by the simple process of show-
ing that the service rendered by Mr. Heaton was
of the most commop-place kind. Alas for this
revelation! It crushed all the efforts that were
being made to obtain a C.M.G., as a reward for
Mr. Heaton’s services. In other wa*ys this gentle-
man has endeavoured to obtain notoriety. The
effusive fashion in which he forced his attentions
on the Queen of the Netherlands, at the Amster-
dam Exhibition, was a slight to the representa-
tives of his colony, and a reproach to all well-bred
Australians. Not many months ago he volun-
teered to the Tasmanian Government to act, at
his own cost, as their delegate at the Berlin Tele-
graph Conference. Though the other Australian
representatives gave him the oold shoulder, he so
worked the Times correspondent in Berlin that
the leading English newspaper gave Mr. Heaton
more prominence than any other representative.
[Mr. Cracknell, the Superintendent of N.3.W.
Telegraphs, writes to the Sydney papers express-
ing his surprise that Henniker "Should have had
the audacity to say that he succeeded at Berlin in
getting a reduction from 6s sd. to 2s. Bd. per word
for the Press.” .... Mr. Cracknell adds : -
“ Mr. Heaton was not even invited to attend the
meetings, when thlsmatter was arranged.”—Ed.B ]
Whenever any Australian question is on foot in
England you will be sure to see Mr. Heaton airing
his opinions in the London newspapers, and just
as surely the Australian Press will be down upon
Mr. Heaton, and hold him up to ridicule. They
describe his Press career as a ‘ridiculous fizzle; ’
they remind him of the late Walter Cooper’s
horsewhip; of the excursion to Jervis Bay, when
‘ he got himself somehow invited, to the amaze-
ment and distress of every guest in the company.’
They are even still more oruel, for they revive
the recollection of a certain dinner to General
Bcratchiey, when all the Agents-General but one
were invited, and not one attended. General
Scratchley’s annoyance at being deluded to act as
the figure-head of Mr. Heaton’s entertainment is
a matter of common notoriety in Sydney.
The publication of this little gathering in
a London fashionable paper
to let the groundlings know what high company
any he kept, was felt by some besides General
Scratchley to he an insult to his guests. Others
have, happily, profited by General Scratchley’a
experience Lord Rosebery has .... Lord
Carington has declined .... —even to* come
and see my library.’ Mr. Heaton’s claims to be a
representative Australian are just as much a sham
as his pretensions to move in those high social
circles to which vulgar parvenus always aspire.
Against his financial honesty, or his moral char-
acter, I say nothing, but if any of his supporters
believe Mr. Heaton to have claims upon them
because of his cheque book—if they think him to
be a rich man—let them judge him by his own
words as expressed by his own lawyers. The
Sydney Morning Herald of March 1,1881, con-
tains a very long report of the libel action of
Robertson v. Archibald, Heaton, and others,
which resulted in a verdict for the plaintiff, £lOOO
damages. In that trial, Mr. Pilcher, the defendants’
counsel, declared that Heaton had rot a shilling
in the world, and that his income was entirely de-
rived from his wife’s interest in her father’s estate I
One more newspaper quotation. The Bydney
Bulletin of April 25 last publishes the following
paragraph ‘ Mr. Henntker Heaton, who still
hankers after a Conservative seat, has inflicted on
the readers of the London Times a long and
dreary letter in commendation of the military
spirit displayed by this colony. That reminds us
that the only opportunity Mr. Heaton ever had of
displaying a military spirit was when he made a
well-executed flank movement behind a barmaid’s
skirts, to evade the encroachments of Walter
Cooper’s whip 1 ’ This is the sort of person whom
you are asked to elect for Canterbury.—J L.
Brampton, a New South Welshman.” We need
only make one remark with respect to this circu-
lar. The Sydney Evening News is not entitled
to the honour of being termed a Radioal paper.
Like Henniker Heaton, it has no political prin-
ciples, and trims its sails on the catohpenny prin-
ciple to the breeze of ihe hour.
Balm for a Sore Heart.
Having been troubled for many years with the
tetter, and spent many a hard-earned dolar, I was
given a trial of the Coticura Kemedies, and,
thank God, my hands are well I rever had any-
thing to do me good lifee that. Sometimes my
heirt was sore, thinking I would have to give up
altogether with my sore hands, and having a small
family to take care of; but, oh! thank God. my
hands are well, so I again return thanks. ELIZA-
BETH BUCKLEY, LitUeton, N. H.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is far and away
superior to all other spirits Hence its widespread
popularity.
Use American Co’s Hop Bitters once and
you will use no other mediciuo. Test it. Take no
other. Be sure and read
Notice!—Reliable Old Australian Winee,
selected vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Hookings, 143 Pitt-street.
The public should be no longer duped by
cheap fiery compounds imitations of Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, and CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. G. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
Ml mm, ail MffiEET IK,
Importers of
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
RAILWAY AND OTHER CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS
MINING. CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDfERS’
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES. &o.
BAB, PLATE, SHEET,
Mid HOOP IKON
GALVANISED OORRU
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS. Md
BRUSH WARE
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPAOKS
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
S7BBIW'!
l
I®/
Sii^tWsTcl
m
-r-44,
■**«u
r e
PUKTABL Si JB J. 4
and SBMI-7IXBD
GINES
VERTICAL and HORI-
- BOILERS
and othei
TEAM
PUMPS
LATHES, PLANING,
SHAPING, SCREW.
S ING, and DRILLING
. MACHINES
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRASS
FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLLED
SHAFTING
QUICKSiLYBR, &o.
Baumann,
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
mr- luncheon and refreshment rooms fob ladies and gentlemen.
GOULET CHAMPAGNE.
OF UNRIVALLED PURITY AND
EXCELLENCE.
Thus characterised by one of the highest medical
authorities “ Its qualities are of a very high
order; it possesses a charming boquet, fruity and
pronounced; essentially a dry wine without attenu-
ation, and free from acidity; full and crisp."
KNAPP & ELLIS,
6 Bridge Btreet, Sydney,
Agents for New South Wales.
T
HE AUBTRALABIAN MUTUAL LIVE STOCK
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital ... £lOO,OOO.
Head Office : Melbourne.
Victorian Directors Thomas Learmonth, Esq.,
Chairman; John L. Dow. Esq., M.L.A.; J. F
Levien, Esq., M.L.A.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs insured
against death.
Marine Risks accepted on Live Stock (covering
mortality); also on Merchandise and Hulls.
New South Wales Branch ; 171 Castlereagh-street.
H. 8. BADGERY, Managing Director.
H. M. HAMILTON, Manager.
ART IFICIAL T E ETH
roMP«-£TESFT
MARSHAL L*BP.O?
DENTISTS
133 ELI Z ABETH ST
The FOLLOWING GOODS
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Corn Paint, la.
Asiatic Liniment, 2s.
That Modern Appetiser—The Australian Relish—ls
A. Soyer’s Baking Powder (free from alum), 6d.
Page’s Custard Powder, 4 in box, Is.—makes two
quarts fine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linotus, for coughs, Is.
Clay ten’s Nervine, for toothache and cold in the
gums, Is.
cr. Barbarossa’s Cantharides and Russian Bear's
Grease Oil, for covering bald patches and pro-
ducing whiskers, 2s. 6d.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL Sc 00.,
177, 268 and 266 PITT STREET.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 13th January, 1886.
TENDERS FOR SCHOOL BUILDING.
TENDERS are invited for the Erection of a
Public School Building at Marrickville West.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained, at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Bydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for School Building
Marrickville West Public School,” must be lodged
with the Under Secretary. Department of Public
Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock a.m., on Wed-
nesday, the 27th January. 1886.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
J. H. YOUNG.
JJOLLOWAY’S PILLS.
A never-failing remedy in all Derangements of
the LIVER and STOMACH, they may be used with
perfect confidence by young and old.
Their world-wide fame for the last fifty years is
a guarantee of their efficaoy. Thousands of testi-
monials, from princes to peasants, attest their
marvellous virtues.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxeobd-st., London
J3F*" Purchasers should look to the Label on tho
Boxes and Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-
ttreet, London, they are spurious.


«52K2?p&^K§g©
fcvJR/tOl MARK^si
-
BEAR’S HEAD BTOTTT.—This farourite bras.
o f Stout eeleoted with great care from fcn»
teat of the brewings of the celebrated Arm of
•Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefoie
cannot be excelled. To ba procured tTerywlor*.
CATT*M *on «ola A rente.
CO
i
188B'
Wool & Fredios
Aactioneea. '
Salt Dayss
Wool and Shoop-
•kin*,
THURSDAY
At Chamber
•f Co mm tret
At Warehouit,
Hide* & Tallow
FRIDAY.
Homs, Bonos,
SATURDAY.
Leather,
TUESDAY
' l
1 1 t»umx mui r.z t * i
ft!
iniFlO!
w
na
wT
il l til
y**r-
Wool Booorer*
'Bookload Mllli
Waterloo Millj
And Floodrale.
OapabflitU*,
1,000 BalM
Weekly
Delivery,
11 Bays kftoi
rocoptioa.
Spooial Bebato
oa Wool Sold
by 00-aftoi
Boonrnf.
Prompt
I + Bptaxae.
Vterml Alvwt j- &t gt-ok) Modorete
HOHDATS 4 THUBSDAYS. 01l *** M
W»»l fully Inturtd from ne&ptln U itUvtry.
Snan« Woalpack*, for Wool to to Scoured ky tk* Tim,
forwarded Free of Coot.
WAREHOUSES & OFFICES, CIRCULAR QUAY.
®-3rx>asT*nr
RAW VASELINE.
B
VbLta it cracking, and renders it waterproof.
From its anti-corrosive qualities, uneqalled as a
metal protector, and for keeping in perfect order
Hr, arms, Machines, &C. It is tlm sole'material
lih <1 for the above purposes in tne Austrian and
German armies. Sold by all Saddlers and Store-
t < i pt rs.
SOLE AGENTS:
BLACKBURN & CO.,
t MULES ALE SADDLERS’ IRONMONGERS,
126 Tork-street, Sydney.
SYDNEY
RTERS'OrAU.THE
BOBBRT BUTCHER ll CT.O.
(Late William Loner),
0T WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
* Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English papers atsafl Mtiwtasi rscslvs* toy
EOTAL *M STONE*
GOaLALTA WINES,
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX,
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 G-eorge-street
(Beneatb Paling’s.)
are to
b® found in the “LIGHT AND
Upg,” for the speedy cure of Nervous Debility,
Loso Manhood, Despondency, &c. A copy of
■"'is book will be sent free, soaled. Address—
8. WAitD&CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy.
78 Huuter-stteet, Sydney,
Foster's Bugle Brand.
$>
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALS ALB.**
me BUST ALB and STOUT in the Market
■OLD BT ALL AND WIN!
Wholesale Agents :
W. Balchin, jQhnst@o & 00.,
Commercial Chambers,
BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
HE
REMINGTON
TYPE-WRITER.
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY, EASE,
CONVENIENCE, ECONOMY.
13T* THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER saves
labour, stationery, and time, writing much
faster than expert penmen, and condensing matter
to less than one-half the space occupied by pen
writing. Beautiful copies may be taken in the
usual manner in the letter-press Merchants,
bankers, solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors,
reoorters, and all men of business should use the
ty.pe-writer, and save much valuable time.
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY and CO.,
85 Clarence-street.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT Of PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,006
Reserve Fund £150,000
Directors:
.C.M.G., Chairm
~0.
Auditors:
Jas. Seroggie, Esq. I Hon. H. B. Cohen, B#<
General Manager: I Secretary:
F. A. A. Wilson. | Hector Allen,
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Gosford, Myngai.
Bourke, Manly, and Parramatta.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
Directors :
Edward Chapman, Esq. I Geo. F. Slade, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G I Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manaobr : Geo. H. Alexander,. Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo.
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George SJCaird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, 1
C. Rol-leston, Esq., C.M.G.
Christmas Presents.
FOR GENTLEMEN
PIPES,
CIGAR AND CIGARETTE CASKS,
MATCH BOXES,
WALKING STICKB.
A large assortment of CIGARS, in all size boxes
suitable for Presents. Also, every brand of
TOBACCO.
MAKE YOUR PURCHASES EARLY FOR
CHRISTMAS.
JOHN NOAKE,
TOBACCONIST,
320 & 446 GEORGE STREET,
AND
PALL MALL, HUNTER STREET.
E P P S'S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
DR. BOYD,
58 CASTLERE A GH-BTREET, BYDNEY
(Upstairs),
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
Registered Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours:
10 a.nj. to \ p,m. Monday, Wednesday,
and Saturday Evenings 7 to 9.
Deformities, Nervous, and Female Diseases a
Specialty.
Bax 180 G.P.O.
REUTER’S LIFE SYRUP, No. 2.
A positive and radical cure for
every form of Scrofula, Syphilis
Scrofulous Sores, Affections of the
Skin and Scalp with loss of Hair,
and all diseases of the Blood, Liver,
and Kidneys. GUARANTEED to
purify, enrich, and vitalize the Blood
and restore and renovaterthe entire
system.
REUTER’S HEALING SOAP,
For the Bath, Toilet, Nursery and
the healing of skin diseases of
every kind and at every stage.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
S. Hoffnungf & Co.
A
UBTBALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1872.
Capital—4loo,ooo with power to increase to 41,000,000
BONUSES—2O per cent, paid annually since 1873.
ilrtSS#
Head Office*. «*s>
First Fire Society established in me colony on
the Mutual principle, Riving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits ©very year.
Policy-hc’ders are perfectly free by law from
all liability
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire Insurance at lowest rates
WALTER 0 HTTRCH, Manager.
Head Officea-PITT and KING STREETS.
OILS.
WALL
PAPERS
Office: @3O Gssrge-straet.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
HT" N.B. Patterns and Prices sent.
f;'ii ip lie Sip e
Lotion,
THE CURE FOR SKIN DISEASES!
In a few days Eruptions, PimpleB,'Blotehes entirely
fade away. Beautifully fragrant. Perfectly harm-
less. Cures old-standing Skin Diseases. Astonish-
ing results follow. It removes every kind oi
Eruption, Spot, or Blemish, and renders the skin
clear, smooth, supple, and healthy. Sulpholin©
Lotion is sold by most Chemists. Bottles, 2a. 9d
each. Made only by „T, PEPPER and Co., London
PEPPER’S
QUININE & IRON
TONIC
HEALTH.
STRENGTH.
ENERGY.
GREAT BODILY STRENGTH I
GREAT NERVE STRENGTH !
GREAT MENTAL STRENGTH !
GREAT DIGESTIVE BTRENGI
use
AO *• uu
and wasting diseases. Bottles,' doses' Sold'by
Chemists everywhere. Insist on having Pepper’s
Made solely by J. PEPPER and Co., London
Specially suitable for the colonies.
X-ocls^er’s
SULPHUR
HAIR RESTORER
THB BEST. THE SAFEST. THE CHEAPEST.
Restores the Colour in a few applications.
Large Bottles, Is. 6d. Made in London.
<?>
&
, *
js*
>°°V>V> * vV 54
//// *
DR. BRIGHT'S FHOSFHODTNE.
The only Reliable Remedy for Mental and Physical
Depression, Nervous, Debility, Incapacity for
Study, Loss of Rn-prgySick Headache, Indigestion,
Female Complaints, Premature Decline, and is a
marvellous w edicine for renovating impaired and
broken-down constitutions. It operates on the
system without exciting care or thought upon tbr>
individual a« to the process. It moves the lungs,
liver, heart, kidney, stomach, and intestines, with
a harmony, vigour* yet mildness unparalleled in
medicine, and is the most powerful blood purifier
of the present day. Sold by all chemists.
Aarentt-Buuoxx Bbos.
* 1
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a large and varied Stoek of
FIREARMS,
manufactured by the most celebrated English
BiftkorSt
G. B. M. further desires to apprise his customers
of the fact that he has been appointed AGENT for
the following FirmsJOHN RIGBY & CO., Lon.
don? THOB. BLAND A SON.,London; JOSEPH
LANG & SON, London; CHAS. OSBORNE
CO., London.
G. B. M, is also AGENT for the eminent firm
BOSBY & CO., London.
Game Bags, Gun Cases, Cartridge Belts, &g., and all
kinds of Sportsmen’s Requisites for the field.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
602 George.st., B|diiey p
Where Inspection is invited.
:b fresh food and iob company
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
C '
No. 23 Royal JlifosisSSp
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &c„ with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may ho left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Ageaoy fo
"KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo
nary complaints.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
Head Office.. .. .. •„ 01 Harbour-street
Stables ••• .. .. Liverpool-Street.
Factory Mittagong.
HOKESTY IS THE BEST POLICY
»wrg
ORWi;
SHE
-M3)
It is of the utmost importance that contents 01
each bottle should be carefully compared, as large
quantities are being imported into New Sooth
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com
pareLORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any o
the other brands, when they will find a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORN® HIGH
LAND WHISKY. ,
mooE, sov, and chapman
AGENTS,
MASON BROTHERS
f • fil-V
LIMITED,
14 KB.& 16 Sprisj.gr Street
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, for SALS
to the TRADE anl WHOLE
SALS BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
©UNREAL HARDWARE
glassTchina, *
AETD
BAKTHJSNWA K ft,
WINES, BEERS, AMD SPIRITS,
and general
SULK MERCHANDISE-
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONP
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORDTand CO.'S
Cognac,
J.T. OATEN'S
Schnapps and Genera.
A. MELVIN and SONS*
Bdinbuvgn Pal® A to.
+**6*f : ** PQ*!a+*r....
*&&**■
INGHAM'S
W
d*
J[UPHOP v BI/\
u
* I
*1
Queensland f.i'jy-
'—« PRtP*RIiB’I»NU «Y •I'.VijS
Hr Thomas Ingham
Rockhampton
% *^v«ui


0
/■ <
oNI
WATCHES JEWELRY
Electro-Platt
BONA-FIDE REDUCTION
339 &. 34i GeorgeS 7 Sydney
-AND AT
M B O URKE.Sy.E* M ELBOU RNE
AUa
#
l
r J
i
*
j.
FOR GENERAL DEBILITY AND NERVOUSNESS,
FOR INDIGESTION OR EXHAUSTION,
FOR FEVERS AND LOSS OF APPETITE,
ALL CONVALESCENTS, DRINK IT l
▲t all Druggists and Chemists,
DRINK IT I
DRINK IT l
DRINK IT 1
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
FRIT & SOUS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
1 An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.— Lancet.
in
.
m
■
mm
EH. O COEreTELL,
52 Castlereagh Street,
zsr.s.w.
A REGULAR GRADUATE in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S.W., whose
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all private cases, chronic,
nervous, skin and special diseases,
DR. O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent by post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is frankly stated. Especial attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence,
producing some of the following effects :—Ner-
vousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples on the Face, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of F 1 ensure in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Pains in the Back, Stunted -Jjevclopment, &c., are
treated with unparalleled success. Cures per-
manentTsare, and private. Symptom list free, and medicines sent by post.
Skin Diseases, Itching, Burning, Scaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptions
of evqr.V kind, from, whatever cause, promptly cured. •
It is self-evident that a physician paying particular attention to a class of cases attains great skill,
and physicians in regular practice all over the country knowing this, frequently recommend cases to
this oldest office in Australia, where every known appliance is resorted to, and the proved good
remedies of all ages and countries are used. On account of the great number of cases applying, the
charges are kept low—often lower than is demanded by others. If you secure the skill, and get a
speedy and perfect life cure, that is the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free. Call on or
•Ateess DOCTOR J. O CONNELL,
52 CastlereagU Street (ground floor), Sydney.
S , u.g'griess I
PROCURABLB ONLY AT THB
abbehicm &mmmE & machinery repository
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET BTREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California anil Eastern iuskboardl Ifaofgom®.
MT BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCKS.
WIX-3LXA.M FLEMIMa, Merchant S Ismpsirterp
$$ & $4 C;]»roiri<r^-«tY«iftt. : fneay TPtohtv** MaU! n
3Da,rll:m.g“ ZEUEatei,
HARBOUR STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite Railway Sates),
STEPHEN HOPSCIHS (Late of Wagga Wagga), Proprietor.
HT KSPTSCT AT, ACCOMMODATION FOR OOTTNTRr VTSTTOWR
CBM PEESEHT
i
HOLLIKG & BPANGENBEHG PIANOS.
ZEITZ LEIPZIG
(Piano Makers to the Imperial Court of Germany).
PRIZE MEDAL IRON-FRAMED OVER-
STRUNG PIANOFORTES.
This high-class Pianoforte combines the Latest
Improvements with Economy of Price, and can
be had on application to the appointed agency,
€r. J. WEMjS,
1, Hunter Street, Sydney,
from whom may be had prices and terms to meet
all demands. Also, all kinds of German makers,
Bords.
jgT* THE STANDARD ORGANS,
at very low prices and terms.
G.«l> WELLSy
1 Hunter-street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS
P
I
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
ALLACH BROTHERS.
A PTE? ©ITOR6
%
Copyrighted .
KOOSTACH2 and WEISmS.
Hoyd’s Beard F.llxir did thin, and |
f urili do it on either buld head or
bare fare. jFor cea heavy Mous-
tache in from 2 to 4 weeks and never t
failt p 20,000 young men already
wear full beards, having used l to
BEFOna after
%
Copyrighted,
3 pkts. Ko injury, easily applied, tert#in in effect. Puckett I*. 64.
each, 3 for 3s. Gd.,post paid, sent under cover , free from observation•
Frank Douglas, Sole Agent, Box 730, 0.P.0. , Sydney ,N.S. W'
P. KIRBY,
from the late Mr. Jambs Curtis,
TXao.a,©xtsQce:r,
84 HinKTEB & PHILLIP BTRKKTB,
lUNBSALB NBATLY KXBGUTBD.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was In the employ of the
Mr. James Gurus for sixteen (18) yean;
Manager for over ten (10) years.
IR.PROV ED
STEAM PUMPS.
H. P. GREGORY 1 CO.,
17 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR THE ABOV*<
and have in Stock and to anrira—
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SERVICE PUMPS
MINING PUMP 3
COMBINED AIR & CIRCULATING PUMP
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING PUMPS
SEND FOE PEIOEB AND ALL PARTICULAR*
CATALOGUES FORWARDED FR3*
B. ROWLAWD^,
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
Manufacturer off all kinds of /Erated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor off Vlgorlne
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Go/o Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also , another Go/d Medal for Liqueurs, Bitters, Ac
