

The Bulletin


ASK FOR COLONIAL-MADE
Wire
PROOF
PvDE
<*/
&
PROOFS
Pn
Netting!
BRAND.
Cheaper than Imported.
MANUFACTURED BY
JOHN LYSAGHT, Limtd.,
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SYDNEY.
McLEAN BROS., RIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
o
5
IRONMONGERS
12
5
c
V
o
REG?
<fc
$
<b
SPECIALITIES:
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
OAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &c., &c.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 and 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
FLEMING’S
RELIABLE
BUGGIES
FIRST GRADE!
STYLE,
QUALITY,
and
FINISH.
Used by All the
Leading Citizen*.
NOT HOW CHEAP,
BUT HOW GOOD!
sdfg
sdf
FLEMING’S
WAGGONS
AND
Harness,
Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Call and Inspect
Hardman Bros.
7/ala(mJ-Lffi.
- Ari ™
IdMUAi^Sut
HEAD OFFICE & FACTORY, NEWTOWN
branch, Ceorce Si, Sydney.
m mum nun utiunmuntu minimum*
r i
I»tu t it uui mb i turn I lUuiiiuuinimuM mi
m
J. M. ELLERCAMP,
GLOVER, HOSIER, AND MEN’S MERCER,
AND IMPORTER OF
Ladies’ English and Foreign Boots and Shoes,
15 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BEST HOUSE IN THE COLONY FOR SHILLING SCARFS.
m
<6
°^V
c
9
M OARTHY <fc CO.
TOBACCO MERCHANTS,
669 Greorge-street, Haymarket, Sydney.
<©* Depot for all Cameron Bros, and Co.’s renowned Tobaccos.
Importers of Havanna and Manilla Cigars. A large and superior assortment
of Meerschaum, Briar, and Clay Pipes.
Sole agents for the celebrated Buffalo Tobaccos, Cigars, and Cigarettes.
Manufacturers of Nonpareil Cigarettes. N.B. Trade parcels at Factory Prices.
ALEX.
BORTHWIOKj
GLASS,
WALLPAPER,
PAINT, &c.
281 George-street, Sydney.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
<J. A. ROBERTS, R. J. ALCOCK, G. C. CHALMERS, R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
[RON, HARDWARE, AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS)
Importers of
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES WOOD WORKING
RAILWAY and other CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMEN I» J g
CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDERS’ MATExU AJ -' .
SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES. See.
c/>o
1*1“
T-UJ
Si
q:
Hi
m z
Pc£
a:
z
■jell
«3NK|
■UJ
01
~;' m
ml
Ml
A Vb-^rt i«
BAR, PLATE, SHEET and HOOP IRON; GALVANISED, CORRUGATED and W Vl T ' R o>'
SHEET and PERFORATED ZINC; TINPLATES; PIG IRON and LEAD; olL *; r nEP s
BRUSH WARE ; FENCING WIRE, WOOLPACKS, SHEARING SUPPLIES, BUH* yjW J pl \
MONGERY, ROLLED H GIRDERS; PORTABLE, FIXED, and SEMI FIXED ENGIN®’"’ gpAfX,
and HORIZONTAL BOILERS, STEAM and other PUMPS, LATHES, PLAN4W I’OU 1 '
SCREWING, and DRILLING MACHINES; STEAM HAMMERS; ENGINEERS’ BRA°
PATENT ROLLED SHAFTING, QUICKSILVER, &c.
Sole Agents for FARMER, ROBEY, and BROWN’S CELEBRATED
ENGINES ; READING IRON WORKS’ AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS and PA
WM. TAYLOR and CO.’S Celebrated OILS and PAINTS.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
London Office
85 GRACECHURCH
mm
w
i) Wv
w
Hi
11
tve;.
DIXSON&SONS
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY.
DIXSO
OIXSON
)N & SONS _ f?
CONQUER 0 , f
YANKEE DOOD^
N- A SOWS
SIR ROGEn**'
NAILROD
dixson & sons « /n N
CHAM Pj
OIXSON A SONS * ROMA ,
CUT. In Tin?
R.C.RUBY.ORIENTALM 1 ;
CIGARETTE GOLD LEAF &
IbwH^or
r 15/- *>'
month
m
4*
\
fit
a
V LA# 0
TkaMwa
ET
THE GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL,
Charlotte-place and Geouge-strket.
K. HANLEY’S
1 DOZEN CASE
OF
ASSORTED
WINES, SPIRITS, and MALT LIQUORS,
DELIVERED ANY PART OF CITY FREE.
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer.
Order the ldoz. case as you please from the list of
low prices as under, viz. :
Robertson’s Walker or Royal Blend
Scotch Whiskies 4s. per bottle.
Dunville’s Shamrock and Burke’s
XXX Irish Whiskies
Brian Boru Whisky...
Hennessy’s * Cognag
4s.
3s.
ss.
6s.
4s.
4s.
4 s.
Is. 6d. &2s. 6d.
Square Gin
Jamaica Rum...
Red Heart do
Flasks Brandy and Whiskies
English Ales and Stout, best brands Is.
or 11s 6d. per dozen
Port Wine, for connoisseurs and
invalids 6s.
Port Wine and Sherry, from ... 2s.
Best brands Whisky or Brandy
from 20s. per gallon.
£3 CASE ALSO A SPECIALITY.
Marks’s Are, Porter, and Lager Beer.
Certificate of merit of the first-class and silver medal
awarded at the Calcutta Exhibition, and patronised by his
Excellency the Governor’s household, 6d. per bottle. All
first-class Goods. One trial wftl prove the fact. Bottle De-
partment of the GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL, Comer
George-street and Charlotte-place. Orders by post solicited.
Mrs. Hanney attends personally on lady patrons.
vc4ec/j/ivm
gsd
machine^
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE STOCKS
WITH AU
NEWEST DESIGNS
HIGHEST FINISH
LOWEST COST!
c»» tS
ekc'^'
lA
MO
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS ;
ESTIMATED FOB '
cH£ s
LAUN
COMP
fg
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET.
sdfg


The Bulletin
Vol. 7-No. 348.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1886.
Price., od.
“Gillies’ Smile":
AN INSTANTANEOUS PHOTOGRAPH.
Premier Gillies’ smile,’ said an hon. member, “is a cross between the smile of a cherub and the yawn of an earthquake. —Melbourne Paper .


THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance.)
Per annum £ n rw’
Half-yearly 0 12s. Od.
Quarterly .. .. •• •• 0 6s. ba.
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters payable
t 0 J. M. HARDING,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements, and remit-
tances should be addressed.
Postage-stamps of any Australian colony accepted for
amounts under £l.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
correspondence column all contributions submitted whether
in the form of political, social, or other articles, verse, short
tales or sketches, paragraphs, letters, or newspaper-clippings.
All communications w iu be regarded as strictly cofidential.
Thb Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of such
MSS.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1886.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling in advance—which you may pay by Post Office
Order, Oner-pound Note, er stamps of any Australian colony
—you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Now, by special arrangements, we are enabled to make the
following offer, open to all subscribing direct to this office,
between September 1 and December 31,1886.
Anyone sending the cash for six yearly subscriptions, will
be entitled to a bonus of twenty shillings. Postmasters and
other agents will understand that we will send £1 to anyone
forwarding us six prepaid yearly subscriptions.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in
the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
fere.
IMPORTANT.
The publisher will consider it a favour if any reader
of The Bulletin will forward him the name and
address of any newsdealer who is not selling this paper.
A Mess of Missionary Pottage.
When the New Hebridean question is dis-
passionately investigated, the result of the
examination contrasts very strongly with the
turmoil ' which Australian Agcnts-General
and politicians and the diplomatists of
France and England are keeping up in that
connection. The contention is intrinsically
not an Anglo-French dispute at all. Eng-
lish statesmen do not want the New
Hebrides. Pursuing an hereditary senti-
ment of jealousy of the French people,
English politicians have, indeed, with some
hyper-sensitiveness dogged the steps of
France in the direction of these islands, and
so slight was the appreciation of the group
on the part of both nations, that no diffi-
culty was found in arranging a convention
that neither Power should appropriate them.
Such an arrangement was clearly a mere
postponement of a bargain to be struck at
some future period. In any other sense it
was ridiculous. No two nations would sub-
ject themselves to a self-denying ordinance
which practically invited any third nation to
snap up the bone of contention. France did
not need the islands ; England did not want
them. But conditions altered. The third
party appeared upon the scene. Germany,
the deadly rital of Fnance, stretched out her
claws across the globe. This Power appro-
priated from under the very nose of Great
Britain a portion of New Guinea, with a
sardonic disregard of a formal previous an-
nouncement by a great English Minis-
ter that such a step would be re-
garded as “an unfriendly act.” Almost
simultaneously the Teuton swooped
upon New Ireland and New Britain, the
Caroline Islands, part of the Solomons,
and other groups. Her naval officers at-
tempted a coup at Samoa. Thereupon the
British Ministers, rubbing their slumberous
eyes, yet appearing insensible to the initial
slap in the face—the “unfriendly act”—
entered into an “ understanding ” with Ger-
many as to the limits of the enterprises of
the two nations in the Pacific. This under-
standing had for its starting-point a mild and
calm assumption that no other nation could
have any claims or rights in the matter.
The Pacific ocean and its innumerable archi-
pelagoes of unannexed islands were referred
to as though England and Germany mono-
polised the right to dispose of them. The
lines of partition were settled quite comfort-
ably without any reservation in favour of
French, Dutch, or Spanish sensibilities.
* * *
An immediate consequence, which can
occasion no surprise, was an instant quicken-
ing of French activity. If Great Britain
were insensible to the nose-pulling process,
France had a more delicate nervous organi-
sation. The New Hebrides lay right at the
doors of the French settlement at New Cale-
donia. England had undertaken not to
appropriate the islands, indeed. But although
Germany had assented to a limitation of its
enterprise which excluded the New Hebrides
from the scope of its annexations, the subse-
quent proceedings of that power in relation
to Samoa evinced a not too fine delicacy
about engagements, and after all the con-
tract was with England. No guarantee had
been offered to France. Now the hoisting
of the German flag in the New Hebrides
would have constituted a mortal affront to
France. Naturally desirous of rendering
sueh an event impossible, the French Govern-
ment suggested to England the termination
of til© mating CtfttYeaiion. They desired
that they might possess themselves of the
group, and offered as an equivalent two con-
cessions. They would cede to Great Britain
the island of Rapa, which possessed a strate-
gical importance quite unmistakeable. They
added to this a further offer particularly ad-
dressed to the sensibilities of Australians :
they would cease to deport relapsed criminals
to the Pacific. These were fair offers. The
first alone constituted an equivalent which
was at once regarded as ample by Imperial
officials. The second comprised a complete
concession of all that Australians had up to
that time demanded. The Imperial British
authorities were ready to accept the terms,
when a fresh aspect was imparted to the
case.
* * *
Sundry Presbyterian missionaries had been
“ labouring” in the New Hebrides. Among
the results of their self-sacrificing exertions
were the titular possession, by barter of
heavenlygrace or other intangible and similar
commodities of missionary commerce, of great
tracts of territory. The missionaries objected
to be ousted from their heavenly work and
their earthly estate. - It so happened that at
the head of affairs in one leading Australian
colony was a Scotch Premier, who relied ex-
clusively upon the Kirk to maintain him in
power, in lieu of summoning him to do
penance in a white sheet for sundry alleged
departures from moral discipline. Ami it
simultaneously happened that in another
colony, the principal daily newspapers were
actually edited by brethren of the missionary
breed. Hence it happened that a woeful
clamour was raised, and every sort of pre-
posterous appeal to Jingoistic idiocy was
babbled and gabbled in the Southern Senate,
in the Northern daily Press, and in hun-
dreds of pulpits. Yet further North was
another Premier, whose father also was of
the missionary gang, and his son’s most
potent electioneering agent. Consequently,
from all points of the Australian compass,
an anti-Gallic clamour resounded. The old
“ French and English ” craze was revived.
Agents-General were instructed to protest.
Dispatches were concocted with all solemnity.
The foundations of the deep were moved.
Twopenny politicians shook their puny fists
in the faces of the British connection, and
spluttered at the French eagle. And all for
what ?
* * *
Under the splendid inspiration of the
Right Honorable Plain Bill Dalley, Aus-
tralia has assumed the responsibilities of a
warlike power, on the strong compulsion of
an inward call to save the dear old mother
country in her hour of need, consequent on
her presumed inability to extricate her
armies from the clutches of some wretched
spear-armed Arabs fighting for the defence
of their native land. Similarly Australia
was brought to development as a factor
in international politics under the urgent
pressure of the anticipated annexation by
Frenchmen of an island group within a. day’s
steaming of an already existant French
colony, which intervened between that group
and Australia ; the said group lying more
remote from Australia than the Moluccas or
Java.
* * *
To Australians, the Ne v Hebrides are of
no earthly use, and no conceivable import-
ance. The population of this continent is
already surcharged with a plethora of terri-
tory, crying aloud for occupation and recla-
mation. Not a man is disposable either for
foreign conquest or slaughter, or for distant
colonisation. Our own undisputed possession
—our island continent —requires fifty mil-
lions, nay, one hundred millions of people to
develope its latent resources. With regard
to external neighbours our lot is the most
fortunate conceivable. Poets and essayists,
orators and philosophers of all nations have
for centuries celebrated the fortunate situa-
tion of the people of Great Britain, ditched
around by an ocean Corso and thus protected
from hostile contact in their sea-girt isle.
But we, a thousand times more lucky, are
not, like our parent-race, cramped by narrow
limits and forced to burst bounds and to
adventure in far-regions in search of living-
room and scope for enterprise. There are
no trifling channels and narrow seas which
separate us from hereditary enemies. Vast
oceans roll around us and divide us from all
more powerful communities, and even there,
we, as Australians, have no hereditary foes.
More fortunate than our sires, we are en-
trenched, not in a sea-girt isle, but in an
ocean-circled continent, all our own. What
are the New Hebrides, these chips of land as
remote from our shores as Iceland is from
England, to us ? They are absolutely use-
less. Their possession would not merely be
valueless to Australia. Were possession to
be followed by colonisation, it would be
positively injurious. In peace it would
divert energy, population, enterprise, and
capital from our own continent, which suffers
from a dearth of each and all of these neces-
saries. In war, it would be a preposterous
possession. We could not hold it for a week
against the paltriest of the naval powers.
* * *
Aye, but, replies Sir Jingo, Great Britain
could hold it. True, possibly. But to what
end ? To serve what fruitful purpose ?
And—mark this ! —at what cost to ourselves
should we exact this service from Great
Britain ? Is the game, this New Hebridean
prize, worth the candle ? Sagacious Aus-
tralian political leaders are desiring, nay,
commanding the rulers of Great Britain to
eject the French from the New Hebrides at
any cost, Suppose the task accomplished,
Great Britain will have run the _ risk of im-
mediate war ; will have compromised her
position in the delicately-adjusted balance of
European politics; will have laid herself
open to humiliating embarrassments with
regard to her own unfulfilled pledges to
evacuate Egypt—all to preserve the New
Hebrides for the Australian people who don’t
need those islands and wouldn’t know what to
do with them were they placed at their dis-
posal. But the principle of Federal unity will
have had a clinching demonstration. “ Her
hour of need ” will be knelled for England yet
again. A disgraceful and immoral war
against national liberties in Burmah, in
Transvaal, in Ireland even, may be entered
upon by a Ministry anxious to divert atten-
tion from their domestic incapacity. How
at that hour will Australia be able decently
to refuse her co-operation in turn ? Her
contributions of money or of men she could
not decently with-hold. She would discover
then too late that she had sold her birth-
right a birthright of immunity from the
broils of an Empire upon whose quarrels, as
upon whose territory the sun never sets,
and the musketry rattle of which rolls round
the globe as constantly as the beat of the
British drum—for a mess of missionary
pottage.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Get Out!
The New South Wales Assembly has kicked the
“Australian Centennial” proposals out, and the
country is v T cry well content with the Assembly
for so doing. The country only requires a little
more education to fall as a mountain upon any
showman who proposes to serve himself by un-
covering tfie national shame. How can we avoid
shame, how escape contempt, if we deal with the
facts of our first 20 or 30 years? And what is the
use of Sir Patrick Jennings quoting those re-
markable prophecies of Governor Phillip ? Can
he fill in the picture ? Can he paint the audience ?
Can he point back, not to the Governor only, but
to the governed, and say to his audience, whether
it be the Assembly of to-day or the “assembled
nations” of 1888: “These be our progenitors ” ?
And it is all folly to say that the free population
swamped the convicts in one or two years or one
or two decades. Sydney was a gaol and a brothel
for 30 years. It was intended so to be. Here,
now, is a picture of the year 1815. “ When a ship
arrives boats crowd around her, and visitors choose
among the female prisoners a wife or such other re-
lation as might answer to their prior engagements.
Those females whose appearance or dullness ex-
cluded them from these resources were taken to
the factory. On their arrival, according to cus-
tom, they were mot by a body of men who, having
satisfied the constables, spread before these
women the spirits and provisions provided for the
feast of welcome. What followed need not be
told.” And Governor Macquarie, writing to Earl
Bathurst in 1813, says : —“ In my opinion (speaking
of the voluntary settlers) they should consider
they are coming to a convict colony, and if they
are too proud or too delicate in their feelings to
associate with the population of this colony they
should consider in time and bend their courses to
some other part.” And lest there should ever be
any doubt upon the conditions which really did
exist, a return was prepared in the year 1820
which showed the people out of gaol to be in all
15,851, of whom 13,115 were emancipists and only
2136, in the jargon of the time, “ pure merinoes.”
There is something of course immensely interesting
in such conditions, lots of romance about it, lots
of subjects for fine historical paintings—scenes,
indeed unique in history. What other land could
supply such an instance as this : —“ Fond of dis-
pensing mercy he (Governor Macquarie) ap-
pointed a day when those who thought themselves
entitled crowded his presence. The concourse of
suppliants was often very great, many venturing
to ask who did not hope to obtain, and whose sole
claim to mercy was the bad terms on which they
lived with the law. The crowd pressed on with
their petitions, which the Governor read in their
presence, and by one letter of the alphabet ” (sic—
one word ?) “ gave liberty to the impatient captives
or sent them back to merit freedom as freedom was
then merited.” “ The court of Clemency,” says Dr.
John West, “ thronged by suitors, would have
afforded a fine subject to the artist.” Certainly it
should not be missed when we begin to commemo-
rate. But what folly is the whole business ! Why,
if Americans chose to search their annals, they
might discover a very similar beginning, for his-
tory records how Columbus, departing upon his
third voyage with intent to work the mines, find-
ing it impossible to induce free men to accompany
him, besought the court to make order that he
should be supplied with prisoners from the galleys,
and this request was granted. But America
waited and so can we—those of us at least who
are. not expecting dukedoms or billets.
♦
His Excellency the Governor.
While members of the New South Wales Assembly
are casting avaricious eyes on the incomes of
underlings in the Civil Service and discussing
projects for a general reduction of the smaller
salaries, it is noticeable that no effort is made to
cut down the very handsome salary and per-
quisites of the first of our alleged public ser-
vants, “ His Excellency thff Governor.” Whether
measured by his duties, the colony’s revenue, or
emoluments gained by officers of State in other
countries, Lord Carington’s pay is outrageously
disproportionate. He gets £7OOO a year clear, but
to this must be added his perks, in the way of
forage, residences in the Domain and at Moss
Vale, and cost of repairs thereto, special trains,
right of free-import (which right last week was
successfully claimed for a picture valued at £2000),
besides Secretary’s salary, £4OO, and salary and
allowances together £6BO for aide-de-camp, to-
gether with numberless other charges, which run
the total cost of the vice-regal establishment up
to £20,000 at least. But supposing the cost to the
colony of the Carington establishment to be the
amount of the salary alone, this of itself would be
a public extortion : the President of the United
States, who is chief magistrate over a republic of
sixty millions, receives only £lO,OOO per annum ;
the British Minister in the States, only £6OOO ;
and the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom
only £5OOO. The Presidentship of the United
States, compared with the Governorship of
New South Wales should, on the basis of
population, be worth £490,000 per year ; pro rata
on a revenue standard £170,000, and if calculated
according to the amount of ability needed for the
due fulfilment of its duties, the salary would, at
the rate prevailing here, run into incalculable bib
lions. We don't say that Carington has not
more brains than are needed for the figure-head
of a tramcar, but if he has, the position does not
require their employment. He is merely the Bag-
man of Royalty sent out here in the interests of
his Imperial mistress ; his one mission is to make
himself a popular sample product of Imperialism,
and being a fairly energetic young man he suc-
ceeds moderately well in winning the cheap ap-
plause of the designing and the thoughtless sec-
tions of the community. But such service on be-
half of a monarchical system, Which at least half
of our citizens regard with aversion, either silent
or avowed, is but small recompense to them for
the burden of taxation which it entails ; and the
knowledge that a large part, if not all of the
amount annually voted is spent in entertaining
the duchesses of Potts Point and the marchionesses
of Macquarie-street, is not likely to recompense
the hardy back-blocker for his share of the tax.
Apart from all questions as to the uses of a
Governor at all, the money at present paid for the
doubtful boon is excessive, and beyond what is
just or necessary. If members really wish to save
the money of the taxpayers, the Government
House schedule is worthy of the first attention.
Sir Alfred Stephen is on the list to the tune of
£3500 a sum which would seem to be
enormous recompense for the very occasional
duties devolving upon the Lieutenant-Governor.
Any popularity-hunting politician can move for
reduction in the salary of a clerk who drives his
quill for £2OO a year, but it will possibly be a
long time before anyone ventures to attempt the
curtailment of the salary of a Carington or a
Stephen.
+
“The Poah Prince.”
A lady, filled with a beautiful devotion to Lord
Carington, writes to England to another lady sick
nigh unto death with adoration for the poah Prince
of Wales. “See how the poor lord works,” says
one. “See how the deah prince slaves,” responds
the other, depth calling on to depth in the ocean
of slobbery. But the lady at “home” —the Prince’s
lady—enumerates the labours of her idol. He gets
up in the morning, mark you ; he breakfasts—so
do we all when there’s anything in the meal-chest
—he holds a levee at eleven, he meets the four-in-
hand club at one, and he lunches with them all;
he has another reception at three, he entertains a
party at nine, and he goes to Aldershot by the
11.30 train. There is a list of herculean labours I
a catalogue of tasks accomplished on a salary of a
few hundreds a day. He has no time to devote to
petty questions of diplomacy, to interviews with
premiers or statesmen. Society claims all, to
receive and to lunch, to receive and to dine, to go
down to Aldershot and sleep and breakfast and
receive again. Who would be a prince to suffer
thus, even at the rate of £250,000 a year ? But in
the radical and rational, and it may be most
damnably universal mind, the question rises
why tortuie the poor fellow thus? Would
the wheels of the world stop if the “Poah
Prince ” had a spell ? Society would languish,
doubtless, as society languished through all the
years while Lord Loftus .nursed his chickens and
his salary in Sydney. But what would the wide
world care ? What has the world or Australia or
New South Wales gained by all the showman
business recently enacted at Government House,
Sydney ! Are any great things improved, any vile
conditions ameliorated ? Is there less hunger in
our streets, less complaining amongst our working
population ? Are our loans better regarded in the
old world ? Are literature, art, science, a little
more esteemed amongst our wealthy folk ? Nay,
but millinery is much improved, and lessons in
dancing and deportment are in more request, and
every well-to-do tradesman who has got a back-
yard in a back suburb fences it in, and gives an
“at home,” but the people who make the land
keep at home and laugh, and will continue to
laugh, till they think they have paid the piper
long enough, and then—well, we will wait till the
time comes. •
♦
A Society of St. Anthonys.
A ghastly burlesque'on Home Missions in Sydney
is that bumptious organisation known as the
White Cross Society, whose members meet periodi-
cally to listen to exhortations from their spiritual
pastors and masters, and to discuss the exceed-
ingly immoral influence which cigarette adver-
tising pictures, suburban ball-roams, and the
theatres are supposed to possess over their weaker
brethren. These doughty reformers are bound by
a common tie, in the form of an oath, never “to
harm a female or to see one harmed.” The clergy,
who are alleged to constitute a third sex, may by
some process of casuistry be enabled to reconcile
themselves to such an oath, but it is incomprehen-
sible that any real man can do so. As well ask a
man to bind himself to abstain from arson, pre-
meditated murder, or perjury, as to take this
White Cross oath. What is the attitude of such
pious purists ? They pose as reformers of public
morals and yet by their very bond of union
openly confess that they have to bind them-
selves by an oath not to do that which no self-
respecting man could degrade himself to do.
Bishop Barry, in a recent address, appealed to
‘ ‘ the sense of manliness in the breast of his
hearers ” to come forward and take this oath,
\ never to harm a female or see one harmed,” an
exhortation which is in itself a direct insult to
every instinct of manliness. The morality that is
inefficient to sustain itself unless propped up by
such an asseveration is a weak and useless article
which will certainly fail whether buttressed by
such frail supports or without them. Dr. Barry,
possibly to encourage these Sydney St. Anthonys,
likens them to the chivalrous knights of old —a
doubtful compliment, for as the reverend gentle-
man must know, these mediseval adventurers
were in many instances accustomed to de-
mand the jus primae noctis from their helpless
retainers, and it is now generally admitted
that the virtues of the cavaliers were chiefly dis-
played in monkish manuscript, while their vices
were shown in their lives. It would be curious to
know what the weaker sex think of this noble
brotherhood, banded together in the cause of
purity. It may be that they regard them as a
high and holy company who have walled themselves
in with an oath to restrain themselves from vices
in which they would otherwise revel. Or they
may more reasonably think, “ If these pious young
men are so sensual and so weak that they have to
bind themselves by a vow, that vow will be to
them as a rope of sand. Our protectors ? Bosh,
they admit that they cannot yet protect themselves
from themselves.” This latter is the most reason-
able view, and the safest. The most dangerous is
that which would prompt trustful woman to re-
cognise these social reformers a 3 devoted allies
against the machinations of immoral men, and
induce the to belief that the alliance justifies the
neglect of those modest moral restraints which would
otherwise be imposed. The results of such
Platonic familiarity would be disastrous in the
extreme. Choir practices, prayer meetings, Sal-
vation Army Services, and such assemblages are
fruitful of immorality, simply because the youth-
ful of tooth plage at the outset almost un-


limited confidence in the virtue of each other ; and
these White Cross men would be more dangerous
still if admired as paragons of manly virtue, be-
cause they professedly unite moral rectitude to
the piety already inherent in them, and also be-
cause they further aspire to the defence of others.
It is one man’s work to guard himself ; when he
aspires to guard others as well, his own defence
is in great danger of breaking down. Yet with
all this we believe that, such as their work is,
these St. Anthonys will have plenty of it. The
society has a large membership, and each member
has admitted his extreme frailty by taking an
empty oath. Each member will find heaps of
work in watching his fellow-members.
♦ —t
Disinterested Affection.
The Queen’s speech at the recent prorogation of
the British Parliament contained, we are told by
cable, special reference to the interest evinced by
the people of the British isles in the welfare of
their Colonial and Indian fellow-subjects. This is
altogether gratifying. We may leave comment on
the interest felt in the Indian fellow-subjects to
the vernacular native Press of India, which will,
doubtless, do justice to the theme, without ceasing
to denounce the arbitrary and selfish policy
which denies to the Indian fellow-subjects afore-
said the constitutional rights of Parliamentary re-
presentation and self-government, which is (next to
the Bible and the Koran) the secret of England’s
greatness. It will be sufficient for us to speak
for our own people. It is quite overwhelming,
this interest so kindly and obligingly displayed.
But perhaps it might have appeared just a shade
more unmistakeably disinterested had it been
evinced a little earlier when we needed it more.
It is awkward in some degree that this gush of
feeling should have been delayed until the colonies
have bocome England’s best trade customers, and
a good deal more important and necessary to the
mother country, in a commercial and sordid sense,
if not, indeed, . also in a political sense, than
the mother country is now to the colonies.
Men not yet gray-haired can readily remember the
different countenance shown by English Royalty
and people to colonial fellow-subjects while yet
these communities were weakly and struggling.
Colonials are not all gudgeons to be caught by
anything. In another century Australians will—if
monarchical institutions be not then extinct and
regarded as memories of days of darkness
and ignorance—probably be insisting that the
Sovereign of the British Empire shall per-
manently reside in Australia, and will decline
to allow the Heir Apparent or any member of the
royal circle to visit the British Isles during a
jubilee year. But perhaps before such things
come to such a pass Australia will have imported
the entire British nation, Court and all, in one
consignment, as a mere job lot, and bo making use
of the receptacle for Australian recidivists to the
great but impotent indignation of the European
Republics.
—♦
The Tenterfield (N.S.W.) Star in an ably written
jibe at the proposed bogus “ Centenary ” denounces
that outpouring of malarious gush in these
terms: —
“ The status that this colony occupies to-day has, we un-
hesitatingly affirm, been brought about by the obscure toilers
in the lonely bush, whose exemplary perseverance and un-
complaining assiduity has transformed barren wastes into
fertile fields. And now that their labours have borne fruit,
the drones of society, as represented in the metropolis (and
we do not here refer exclusively to politicians, but to the so-
called leaders of society, who are never heard of outside the
drawing-room) wish to step in and take all the credit to
•themselves, while the actual workers will bs ignored alto-
gether.”
We rise to second these observations. If this
decomposed Centenary ever comes off, the honours
will be absorbed chiefly by men who hare gazed
out from above a loose-hung jaw in amazement at
the work others were doing—by men who have
turned politicians because they lacked the intel-
lect to be grocers or the energy to push a wheel-
barrow —and by our “aristocracy,” consisting
largely of men who have been given titles because
it was impossible on the spur of the moment to
find a decent excuse for hanging them. We had a
jubilee of these and other equally objectionable
individuals not long since—we don’t want any-
thing more. In the eloquent language of Seigel’s
syrup, we would ask, “ What is this disease that
is creeping upon us?” and in reply we can only
say that we guess it must be either jaundice or
centenary, and of the two we devoutly hope it is
only jaundice.
BRIEF MENTION.
A big smoke-night.—Cameron's fire.
“ Popularity,” says Emu-egg White, “ has
been delined as setting-up drinks for the boys.”
A newspaper has been discovered at
Pekin which was started to fill a long felt want in
the year 911,
New Zealand is not so far behind the times
after all. A clerk in the Union Bank, Wellington,
has been arrested for embezzlement.
Two men broke into a Melbourne brewery
last week. We have not yet heard the names of
the temperance lodges over which they preside.
At Thursday Island (Q.) a gaol has just
been completed, and an enthusiastic resident is
said to have promised a gold watch to the first
inmate.
A new version, from a country paper :
“ The departed gentleman had been aleing for
some time and his disease was not unexpected.”
Jimjams, we suppose.
In an inland town in N.S.W. the Salva-
tion Army issued the customary notice to the
Devil to clear out within 21 hours, and next morn-
ing the Mayor took the first tram for Sydney.
At Taree (N. S. W.) there is no daily murder
for the benefit of the troubled journalist. In his
last issue he is reduced to telling how the pup
stole the sausages while Mrs. Brown was spanking
the baby.
‘ ‘ Dissertations by a bald-headed old
scoundrel,” is one of the headings in the Western
Grazier (Wilcannia), The blackguard without
any hair seems to do the brightest part of the
paper, too.
The Christchurch (N.Z.) unemployed have
been employing their spare time carrying Sir
Robert Stout’s effigy round the town. Sir Robert
has got too good a billet at present to care much
what they do with what he calls his “FAG.”
A Bega (N.S.W.) paper: “Frank Jen-
nings, 8 years, son of a teacher, has obtained a
certificate that he is sufficiently educated up to
the standard of the Act.” We congratulate Frank,
but withold our admiration from the standard
raised by the Act.
Iliree ounces per ton is the latest yield at
Rockhampton (Q. >, a benighted district where the
mine 3, with the exception of the famous Mount
Morgan, have hitherto returned no gold worth
speaking of and scarcely enough brass to the
square mile to plate Coonan’s cheek.
Somebody proposes that the Queen’s
Jubilee year shall be celebrated by the issue of a
new gold coin—an “ empress,” worth 255. This
suggestion has been enthusiastically received by
the hundreds of thousands of Englishmen who
support large families on a scrow of 20s. a week
or less.
The Cooma (N. S. W.) Express advertises
for “a literary slush man or itinerant editor who
is mean and contemptible enough to sneak round
the district and write lying pars, anonymous
correspondence, pirated leaders, and other literary
garbage. None but a cool, calculating, unprin-
cipled, and polished liar need apply for the billet.”
An Adelaide newsboy has made a small
fortune. He stood on the steps of the Y.M.C. A.
and bellowed up to the sacred glory-pole above :
“’Ere ya are, ’spress or Jernal, full account of
the ’orrible outrage in Sydney! ” And the
Y.M.C.A. rolled up as one bank-tliief and bought
him out for fear he would go and scatter that per-
nicious literature about the city.
The very latest in the way of optical in-
struments is a pair of spectacles having a silvered
area on the inner edge’of the glasses which enables
the wearer to see objects lying out of the direct
field of vision. This fills a long-felt want. The
Civil servant, when doing the block, will now be
able to look round the corners and cover the ap-
proach of the long-suffering tailor.
A giddy, gushing young missionary thing,
who has just returned from New Guinea, says,
according to the S. M. Hekald, that “he dis-
covered as much innate modesty in the female sex
of that Island as in the highest circles of society.”
Thi3 malarious youth should really have stayed in
New Guinea. Unless he is understating his case
there must be plenty of scope for him there.
A correspondent writes us from Casino,
N.S.W. :—“A weird occurrence recently even-
tuated in a certain town in northern N. S. W. A
man died in the local hospital. While proceeding
to bury him at night, his bearers approached a
public-house, set the bier down in the footpath
and adjourned for a beer. A woman passing by
in the dark fell over the coffin. Imagine her
feelings!”
That ’orrible tragedy in a Melbourne
hoyster shop quite unnerved the Herald reporter
who was sent to get up particulars. This is how
he went on : “ She fell upon the floor evidently
lifeless. . . How she could have jumped up
again and rushed down the staircase to the shop
is a singular thing.” Yes, bedad ! a most singular
thing. They must have kept oysters of super-
natural strength at that shop.
The English Mining Journal, which is
regarded—in England—as authoritative, reports
that 20,0000 z. gold have been obtained a
Kimberley, that the output still continues large
and that there is every prospect of a vast fielc
being opened. Ananias in his best days was no
fit to swoop out the office of a reliable British
nowspaper, especially if it is owned by a church
warden and run by a mining expert.
On a certain Barcoo station a well wa
being sunk, and the contractors, running short o
blasting-powder, applied to the storekeeper. He
had no powder, but said he had some dynamite
which he could supply them with. This they
took and attempted to use, but though the
cartridges ignited and made a great smoke anc
smell they would do no more. Close examinatioi
revealed the fact that the supposed cartridges
were horse-balls.
The Bov. Mr. Dixon, just now lecturing
in Melbourne, says that Buddhism is doomed in
Japan, and the Mikado will soon govern a Chris
tian nation. We are sorry for that. Our respec
for the old Japanese religion has been considerable
ever since that “ Village ” came here. From in
quiries made in the temple we learned that one
of the Jap. gods (the little one in the middle
standing in a sort of summer-house) was namec
O’Shanassy, or a slight corruption of that name
We thought he looked a broth of a bhoy.
While the grampus-built steamer Burdekin
was crawling towards Townsville on a squally
pitch-black night, a scream like that of a squashec
whale arose from the deep. A small boat was
seen for a moment under the port-bow, and then
it vanished again into the darkness. The engines
were immediately stopped, and after 10 minutes
of breathless suspense the little craft ranged once
more alongside, and then a nude aboriginal, who
looked like an unclean ghoul, stood up in the
canoe and whined, “You got him backer, blease ? ”
What the reporters call a “singular
affair ” happened in Melbourne last week. In the
dead of night a tall young man engaged a cab to
drive him to the city end of Princes’ Bridge. The
tall young man alighted, and cabby stretched out
his little hand for the fare. Without paying any
attention to that significant gesture, the tall Y.M.
thus addressed cabby : “ She’s not here ; she’s be-
hind time. The water’s wet.” Then he threw
down his hat and stick and bolted. It is suggested
that the tall young man subsequently drowned
himself. If so, he has discovered that the Yarra
water is not wet—only sticky. The dead ’uns
who are fished out of that stream are no more
wet than a fly recovered from the treacle-jar.
They say Sir Patrick Jennings will be
made a bart. We don’t believe there’s a barticle
of truth in the rumour.
A heavy storm has been raging in N.Z.,
and for several days a tremendous surf beat on
the shores of Otago, especially on the exposed and
naked coast between Timaru and Port Chalmers.
After it had subsided the sands were found to be
impregnated with gold which had been cast up by
the sea, and a large number of men are making
good wages. Apparently the great deposits of the
future are under the ocean, and some day, when
the diving apparatus has been brought to perfec-
tion, a submarine rush may take place which will
completely wipe out the memories of Ballarat and
Bendigo.
The North Australian, published at
Palmerston, reports that 200 white madmen have
recently passed through that remote one-horse dog-
hole all bound for Kimberley. The assets of the com-
pany appeared to consist chiefly of a walking-stick
apiece and a good opinion of themselves. They
were in a hurry, but they stopped to fight the local
Chinamen as they passed—a proceeding which led
to disaster. A burly Celestial drummed up the
yellow gang, emptied a pot of newly-cooked rice
on the head of the foremost digger, and with a
rush that put Coonan’s miserable “charge” of
£2 14s. 6d. hopelessly in the shade, drove them
out of the town. The sun of the once proud
Caucasian seems to be on the decline. Once it was
his boast that one white man could lick a dozen
Chinkies, and now he is punched by a Buddhist
Who doesn’t even know about original sin,
CORRESPONDENCE
Reform”: A difficult matter to deal with in
any way, but we’ll keep your letter, and enquire....”G.
Ellis”: May be of u5e....” Justice” (Borabala): Noted....
“A Maniac”: Thoughtful, but incomplete....” Sarkum ”,
It does not matter who sends matter—its quality is the only
consideration. ..“Lex” (Adelong); You may make your
mind easy—your name will not appear. Nor will your item
....“Exile”: Thanks; may be able to use “ A Lover of
Pair Play”: We can do nothing. Write to Minister....” Big
Drum” (Goulburn): If we wanted to make each of the
parties to that salvation scandal a present of £5OOO we would
publish your tale, which is no doubt true, but we cannot
afford to be so generous....” J. A. Ralph”: Wiite to us
again if nothing further is done “Boaz": AVe tore it
without Ruth....” Anti-Humbug”: Will notioe occurrence.
....”J. Trenworth”: He may be all that you say, but
even so his cause must be his encouragement....
“Bushman Phil”: Will read “T. Christie ”: Thanks,
but that isn’t our game “ Muswellbrook ” : You don’t
give your name “ W.R.W.” (Melbourne) : We'd rather
invest £5 with a bookmaker and have a straight run for our
money. We’d be sorry to guarantee the bona-fidcs of any
sweep —“M E ”: Your artless little note recalls
the following, found 50 years ago in that volume which con-
tained the press notices bearing on the accomplished Miss
Snevellici To Correspondents.—J S. is misinformed
when he supposes that the highly-gifted and beautiful Miss
Snevellici, nightly captivating all hearts at our pretty and
commodious little theatre, is not the same young lady to
whom the young gentleman of immense fortune, residing
within a hundred yards of the good city of York, lately
made honourable proposals. We have reason to know
that Miss Snevellici is the lady who was implicated in
that mysterious and romantic affair, and whose conducl
on that occasion did no less credit to her head and heart
than do her histrionic triumphs to her brilliant genius."
“Ishmael”: Thanks. We get'plenty of advice “ C.C.”
Thanks “Kitty” (Melbourne): You don’t say who you
are....“ Hearsay ” : Your items don’t seem to have reached
us... .“J. O’M.” : We’d subscribe to none of them. We
keep our “ private opinion” on the subject carefully locked
up in a burglar-proof safe...." A Britisher ” (Sofala): Quite
right—the statement was mere chaff “Wayfarer”: The
“holy calm” of your Sabbath is evidently a dyspeptic after-
dinner dream which you mistake for pious tranquility.
Most people get up later than usual on Sunday, and as it is
the barbarous British custom to eat on the Sabbath a heavy
dinner which too quickly succeeds a late breakfast, the
result is that the average citizen on Sunday afternoon
“snoozes” like an alligator on a mud-bank. The especial
“ tranquillity ” which you ascribe to Sunday has in it nothing
of the occult—it is due solely to beef. Too many people,
some of them clergymen, mistake beef for religion “ J.M.’
(Melb.): If he only would skip with £60,000, his departure
would be cheap at the money “Fact”: Thanks. Write
again “ Bushman ” : A pretty bit, which we may use ere
long —“Ingoldsby”: Good topical verse “ L.D." : Re-
gret that we cannot accept. MS. preserved....“ Reginald” :
A new kind of girl should be built for you ; it is absurd to
write such poems about the ordinary sample of woman-
hood. And you want a new kind of metre made too ; some-
thing that scorns accent, cadence, and quantity would suit
you best—“ A.H.8.” : Your poem may be entirely original,
we don’t say that it is not, but we boldly venture on the
assertion that Tom Moore wrote it long ere you ever ac-
quired any considerable knowledge of this sinful universe....
“Henry M.”: "Youth” was produced in Sydney at the
Theatre Royal on Bth July, ’82...." Footscray” : Will put it
through our little mill “ Hamlet ”: He may be “ fond of
claimingwhathehasno right to,” but if we published your little
narrative he would probably claim £lO,OOO or so from u 5....
“ Malay”: In his family a peer is generally addressed by the
name of the peerage. Thus, the Duke of Argyll would pro-
bably be called by his wife, “Argyll,” and the eldest son is
familiarly addressed by the second title, “ Lome.” Even the
Prince of Wales is called by his brothers and sisters “ Wales.”
We heard this from a man who had been talking to Burdett-
Smith “ Ingoldsby ” : Your first “ encore verse ” is lively:—
" There’s the Anglicised colonial whose appearance tells
you so,
I’m sure he’d not be missed, I’m sure he’d not be missed,
With his superfine veneering, got at Hampton Court, you
know,
He never would be missed, he never would be missed;
Then those Caringtonian grovellers that dwell in Darling-
hurst,
Who at Government receptions always toddle up the first,
And those dear young English gentlemen who tell you
(when at sea)
They intend to start sheep-farming [aside] without a Scotch
bawbee]
And our cousins now in Engerland, on this we do insist:
That none of them are missed, that none of them are
missed.”
"C.O.H.”: Not class enough “ Bb.” : Thanks.
Write again “Adavale”: Both stories are ancient as
the Burdett Smith family. The yarn about the man vainly
hunting all over town for a copy of the Bible and ultimately
finding it in the Chinese camp is a hoary jibe at white
hypocrisy....“ Burdekin ” (Townsville): Thanks for items,
but with regard to the alderman and policeman we wrote
them up already, and fancied the latter would have
shrivelled in consequence. Perhaps he has not read the
item yet, but if he dies suddenly you may gues3 he has seen
it...." Teresa P.": We don’t say the thing is bad ; but we
were compelled to say, in justice to ourselves, that we did
not guarantee it, as alleged “Joseph M'Leod”: Sorry we
must decline to make any recommendation in the matter of
sweeps. You must “go blind” and take your chance
“Raven”: Yarn too long. As he broke into gaol he probably
wished to hide from the police “Robert Aveling”:
Thanks “L. 8.”: Your matter has already been dealt
with. We might point out, though, that being connected
with Violet Cameron’s show it was only natural that Lord
Lonsdale should claim to be on the free list “E.H.8.”:
Suggestion for cartoon sent on, or rather sent under....
“ Arthur Mason ” : It is impossible for us to say whether
there are more churches in Sydney than in any other city of
the world, but we can say that there are few cities which
need them more “Eric”: Yes, Dan. O'Connor was very
quiet until recently ; he was probably laying the foundations
of that Centenary oration. As soon as the Carnival of Rum
business was burst up by a vote of the Assembly he broke
out afresh. Chunks of his Centenary harangue may now be
looked for in all his speeches; such illiquince as awaited the
advent of our foreign visitors must be used up somehow—
“ I.AV.” : Your last verse of the Coonan poem runs thus: —
“ Yes, we must veto principle,
Keep it darkly out of way;
Keep Coonan in, he’ll give his vote
To get our long sought railway ! ”
This may be everlasting truth, but it is very poor verse, and
very inferior libel “ J.T.R.” (Townsville): Thanks, but
arrived too late for current number....” True Blue " : Your
absurd blow and that of the New Hebridean howlers iu
general reminds us of the story told of t. certain English
ambassador to the Venetian Republic, who was one day in a
gondola. Dipping his hand into the water, he raised some
of it to his lips, and then complacently exclaimed : “ Ah
ha ! This water is salt, therefore it belongs to England ”
“ Jabo ” (Bega) : Rameses 11. died 3300 years ago. His por-
trait was published in last week’s Down and Gum.tk.bk for
no other reason than that the news of the late monarch's
decease had just reached the office “ J.E.M.” : Held
over. Glad to have such matter “ H.H Y.” (New Cale-
donia) : Will read for next issue “ P.C.M.” (Adelaide):
Rather too suggestive to bring under special attention
“ R. Soames" (Toowoomba) : You utterly miss the point by
assuming, like a lot of other people, that the political in-
terests of England and Australia are identical instead of
being widely divergent “Subscriber" (N. Shore): No
salary attaches to a baronetcy or Privy Councillor. On the
contrary, when accepting a baronetcy you have to pay some
stiff fees.
The Australian Pugilistic Cham
pionship.
Notwithstanding the fact that 29 prayer-meet-
ings, 197 Bible-classes, and a grand Halleluiah,
all-night, very free and moderately easy Salvation
Army go-as-you-please were inviting their presence,
the sinful admirers of the noble art of nose-bashing
rolled up to the extent of over 1100 to see their
favourite science “exponed” by Messrs. Jackson
and Lees for oof to the tune of £2OO aside at
Deacon Foley’s chapel, Sydney, on Saturday night.
White predominated, but darkies attended so
largely as to give the hall a sort of piebald appear-
ance. Among the crowd also we observed a couple
of N.S.W. members of Parliament, who probably
came to compare a well-ordered and scientific fight
with the little affairs which are occasionally mis-
conducted under Ministerial patronage within the
halls of Legislature. A four-round interview be-
tween Molloy and O’Brien served as a first course
to the festival, and then Mr. Foley mounted the
stump and eloquently orated as follows Qenel-
men (immense applause), we 'ave come to see a
fight, an’ all we want is that there’ll be fair play
an’ the best man win,” and having repeated the
above sentiment several times, called upon Mr.
George Seale to act as referee, and deputed Mr,
Joseph Thompson to hold the Waterbury. Then,
the sluggers being present, Mr. Jack Thompson
dilated upon the Queensberry rules, which unfor-
tunately he had left at home on the ormolu
table in his boudoir, with such fullness
and fluency that his parliamentary candidature
for Botany Bay or Blackwattle Swamp may be
regarded as one of the certainties of next century.
The rival pluggers were as widely different in
make as in complexion. Lees was thick and com-
pact, and being trained to the hour looked about
as well as it is possible for him to do with so few
garments on : the Professor when stripped was
statuesque to the waist, but decidedly otherwise
as to the balance of his figure. He seems to hare
been built from the head downwards, and the
contractor appears to have slummed him after the
job was half through. He scaled 24 pounds more
than his opponent, but this, as the Christian
Chronicle man informed us, was all to the ad-
vantage of Lees because it gave him so much
more to hit —a statement that is certainly logical.
There was a distressing monotony about the first
10 rounds, which were a succession «f races round
the enclosure —Lees being usually a little in front.
He had evidently been told to keep off his man.
This was sound advice. With such a man as
Jackson in the ring we would do more than keep
off him —we would keep off the stage altogether.
Up to the 6th round the men had only worked off
about threepen’orth of the entrance money in
bashing, and the seatholders began to become dis-
contented ; they had paid a pound a head, and
nothing less than gore could be acoepted as the
quo pro quid. Therefore the voice of their
united complainings was like unto a ton of
hailstones on a tin roof, and it was in
vain that Mr. Foley occasionally remarked :
“ Genolmen, we ’ave eome to see a fight,” Soc. One
obstreperous individual was asked by Larry to go
outside, and he at once obeyed. Mr. Foley’s advice
always has strong persuasive power. In the
7th round things perceptibly improved ; there was
not even then much hitting done, and would have
been less if Lees could have run a little faster.
The work, so far, was evenly divided : Jackson
did all the hitting and Lees all the receiving. For
particulars as to the way in which Lees tried his
left and nabbed a heavy return on the conk, after
getting much workmanlike punishment on the
mark and breadbasket, see the S.M. Herald of
Monday. In the 11th round Lees’ left went on a
foreign mission to the heathen with gratifying
results, but in the following round he accepted
board and temporary lodging at the instigation
of Mr. Jackson. From this out Tommy’s imports
largely exceed his exports ; the balance of ex-
changes set strongly against him, in spite of his
attempts to maintain a system of protection. The
money’s worth mounted up quickly during the 20th
round, at least 10 shillings’ worth of bashing
being done then. The Echo lucidly describes the
way in which Jackson landed Lees on the smeller
and potato-trap at this stage, receiving light re-
turns on the conk and kisser. In response to some
exclamations during the 21st round Mr. Foley
came forward and was understood to say, “ Genel-
men, we ’ave,” &c., &c. Lees now began to get a
dim perception of the fact that Jackson owned a
remarkably enterprising left; but in spite of this
discovery, he fought hard and close, the only
result being that Jackson’s glove permanently
resided on the Melbourne man’s nose. From
round 25 Jackson, who was a waiter for oppor-
tunity, seemed to be fulfilling a permanent order
of hot coffee for one, and ten minutes of hard
slogging recompensed the audience for the balance
of their ticket outlay, for the bashing was very
heavy. In round 26 Mr. Foley introdueed a plea-
sant variation by orating as follows : “ Genelmen,
we ’ave,” &c., &c. In round 29 Jackson napped
Lees heavily on the conk, following this up with
visitations to his opponent’s bread-basket and
right peeper (vide E. News), and daring the follow-
ing round Lees handed in his resignation.
Throughout he fought a plucky though hopeless
battle, and at the finish Jackson treated him with
the merciful consideration due to an honourably
beaten man. As soon as the result was posted,
Jackson was made the apex of a human pyramid,
and carried off in triumph. Tommy Lee* was also
well attended to by his friends, but disloyal mut-
terings were rife because, owing probably to some
oversight, Lord Carington’s carriage was not
placed at his disposal. At the conclusion of pro-
ceedings, Mr. Foley began an ©ration thus :
“ Genelmen, we ’ave ” —we left then as the words
seemed to be in some sense familiar. Larry has
50 different hits, but only one speech. We have
heard it—several times, or even more.
“William Minogue, a labourer, was ar-
rested in the labour-yard at the Melbourne gaol,
which he had burglariously entered by a ladder
and rope.” The enterprise shown by our Vic-
torian brother recalls the “ good old time 3,” 40
years ago, when the conflnees of Darlinghursfc
Gaol used to break out at midnight, burgle in
Woolloomooloo, and get back to prison before day-
light.
Monotone.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Do you think of the days that used to be,
Ah ! not so long ago ?
You used to say then that you loved hut me ;
But you’re just like the winds that blow.
They have no reason, they have no sense,
And they just pass to and fro,
We know not whither, we know not whence ;
Your love is the same, I know.
The wind can be passionate in its might,
Or lazy, and soft, and low ;
You are just as passionate, just as light,
My love of a year ago.
A. F.


Ora Pro Nobis.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Is the life we live worth living, as we struggle
from day to day,
For the food we eat, and the clothes we wear,
and the coin to pay our way,
As we grind, and toil, and worry, amidst hoping,
and doubt, and fear,
That the drought, or the flood, or the cold, or heat
with success may interfere ?
We dare not stray from the narrow path, we fear
what the world will say,
Yot envy the while, in our secret soul, the man in
the beaten way.
We crawl to church (’tis the proper thing) and
devoutly kneol and pray
That the Lord will send just enough to keep the
meal-chest full to-day ;
On our homeward way, from the home of prayer,
we moan, if the way’s not clear,
To keep the chest and the cellar full till the end of
the coming year.
We tell of our trust in Providence, which marketh
the sparrow’s fall,
And straightway show by our daily lives that we
trust Him not at all.
We sit ’neath the preacher, week by week, as he
tells us the oft-told tale,
’Tis loss to garner our treasure here, where the
rust and the moth prevail,
Where the cracksman comes, in the dead of night.
and “ jimmys” the Milner box,
And the lesser lights of the burglar’s art pick our
combination locks, —
And we think, as the well-worn platitudes fall soft
on the careless crowd,
’Twere a good idea (so our lives would say) to have
pockets built in our shroud.
As the preacher tells of the man of sin who bends
not the righteous knee,
We mentally mutter “That’s Smith,” “That’s
Jones,” hut never say once “ That’s me!”
He grindeth the poor, loves not the law, and he
hoardeth up the pelf ;
That character fits, like ’twas made for Brown,
but becometh not ourself.
Our debts forgive, as we gently deal with our
brother who owes us aught.
Mem : Issue a writ if Robinson fails to pay for the
goods he bought,
Oppress not the widow, the fatherless, that mes-
sage the Lord hath sent:
That was not oppression to 'sell her sticks, she
owed us a fortnight's rent,
But a loan to the Lord is the rich man’s gift to his
brother the poorer man—
Do we give our cash for the poor man’s use ? Yes,
cent, per cent, per ann.
And the preacher speaketh in solemn tones, “ Re-
member the Sabbath Day,
Thou shalt not work, nor thy man nor maid, and
the horse and the ox may play.”
Just so, and the carriage the gate beside waits
our leaving the house of prayer
We go to pray, as our neighbours do, and our man
goes there to swear,
To curse and howl at the flies and sun, to break
through the mandates ten,
Till we drop in the plate a current coin, and echo
the priest’s “Amen”;
Pass out through the gate, with a smirk and a
bow for our brethren in the fold,
Then enter the carriage—“ Now, drive like ,
for our dinner’s getting cold.”
’Tis a sweetly-consistent life we live, let us roll
our eyes and rant,
For the preacher tells us we can be good—we can,
but, alas, we cant !
The Keferee
The A.J.C.’s Spring meeting was brought
to a moderately successful termination on Satur-
day last. The thorough success of the four days’
sport was, to a certain extent, marred by the un-
earthing of such a brilliant three-year-old as
Trident proved himself to he, but the hollow vie
tory of the Derby winner in all his contests was
atoned for-in some measure by the very close run
for the Metrop. With the almost exclusive ex-
ception of those who were made cognisant of the
Bohemian’s ability to stay two miles, very few
profited by the victory of the little brown horse,
and it may be remarked here that, although a
Sydney-bred animal, New South Welshmen would
not have him at any price, preferring to stand by
the Jewel and others, whose performances over a
two-mile course were of no more reliable nature
than were those of the Bohemian. The remain-
ing events were, as a rule, well contested. We
have known Mr. Scarr to be more successful in
framing his handicaps, or else it is that the public
are getting more clever than formerly at picking
winners, but true it is that directly the weights
were published for the Shorts’ Handicap, Squat-
ters’ Handicap, Sydney Handicap, and Free
Handicap, My Lord, Corday, Industry, and the
Agent were pounced upon, much to the disgust of
the fielders.
* * ,
What a wonderful galloping machine
Trident must be. In the race for the Randwick
Plate of three miles he ran his first round, canter-
ing only, in 2min. 22sec. ; second round, in 2min.
llsec. ; the last two miles in 3min. 36sec. ; and
his last mile in lmin. losec. At no part of the
journey was he ever extended, and it is beyond
all comprehension what he could or can do when
required. We hardly expect to see him measure
strides with Malua, Commotion, and Trenton this
spring at Melbourne, but should a meeting take
place between them, he may be trusted to put
them all down.
* * *
The Hon. J. White's* string, men and horses,
left for Melbourne this week. The brigade con-
sists of Mr. M. Fennelly, Mr. Tom Paton, Master
Robert Ellis, a full detachment of captains, cor-
porals, and privates, together with Sumatra,
Pontifex, Aberdeen, Lava, Trident, Acme, Tama-
risk, Volcano, Monte Christo, Hexham, and
Bando, all of these, save the latter, having engage-
ments at the V.R.C. Spring meeting. With any-
thing like a smile from dame Fortune, Mr.
Fennelly will return woll laden with the rich
plums provided by our friends in Victoria.
* * *
Rumours have been freely circulated dur-
ing the week past that a syndicate of book-
makers had offered Mr. White the sum of
£5OO0 —some papers have it £lO 000—for the
colt Trident. Like many other reports that have
been circulated about the same stable when in
possession of a Derby favourite, this report is
quite unfounded ; and for the benefit of those who
have backed Trident for any future engagements,
we may state, on the authority of Mr. Fennelly,
that there is not an individual (male or female) at
present waltzing around this terrestial globe with
sufficient coin to purchase one hair of the tail of
the great son of Robinson Crusoe and Cocoanut.
* * *
Young Bob Ellis, third lieutenant in the
Hon. James White’s racing establishment, was
the hero of the occasion on the third day of the
A.J.C'. Spring meeting, his record showing three
wins and two seconds. It is worthy of notice that
the masher jockey was associated with the gentler
sex in each performance, his respective mounts
being on Kathleen, Acme, Cora Lee, and Industry.
* * *
In direct opposition to the consensus of
opinion which appears to exist in the minds of the
great majority of Sydney sporting scribes respect-
ing the condition of the running track at Rand wick,
we embrace this opportunity of stating that a more
disgraceful rink for a leading racing club to possess
is not on record. Hard as marble, and almost as
bare, it is a wonder indeed that a bigger list of
cripples has not to be chronicled. Should Mr.
Clibborn visit Flemington this year it will do him
no harm to interview Jonathan Brown, the ranger,
always providing he is willing to accept any sug-
gestions that may be offered. But we are without
any hope 3 of such a consummation eventuating.
Surely some consideration is due owners and
trainers, who contribute in no small degree to the
present position enjoyed by the A.J.C.
We were disappointed on learning that
Brown and Rose was scratched for the Waverley
Handicap, because we were anxious that Mr.
Austin (if he were present) should have had living
proof that his arguments on two-year-old racing
are without foundation. Brown and Rose com-
menced her racing career early in August as a
two-year-old, and has been running ever since. It
only requires one glance at her to convince the
most critical judge that she is as sound now as the
day she was foaled.
* * *
We are afraid the powers that be, in con-
nection with the V.R.C., will not arrive at any
satisfactory arrangements on the two-year-old
racing question. The V.R.C., in introducing
penalties into their Maribyrnong Plate this year,
have taken a step that will prove a stumbling
block in the future. Far wiser would it have
been to carry the event on to the Autumn meeting
and make it exclusively for maiden two-year-olds.
By so doing every end would ho reached, the
trainers would have sufficient time to prepare
their charges without hurrying them, breeders
also would have the satisfaction of knowing that
their representatives were well-matured two-year-
olds, and last, but not least, the cruelty (which,
we contend, at present is indulged in) of asking
them to carry Bst. 101 b., and Bst. 51b. respectively
would be done away with.
* * *
“ Asmodeus,” of the Melbourne Leader,
is terribly cut up over the victory of The Bohemian
in the Metropolitan Stakes, his virtuous indigna-
tion inducing him to bewail the wickedness of
poor innocent Tom Jones in not supplying the
Leader with full particulars of Tho Bohemian’s
performances in private. A couple of weoks ago
a gushing paragraph appeared in the Age stating
that “Asmodeus,” of the Leader, had tipped
Meteor as the absolute winner of the Hawkesbury
Handicap, and attention was also drawn to the
fact that all the other scribes had failed to attain
this success. A very clever performance indeed,
“Asmodeus,” but we would like to call your at-
tention to Meteor’s running in tho mile flat race
at the last Melbourne Hunt Club meeting. In
that event he carried 7st. 101 b., started a strong
favourite, and yet only finished third. We
are really anxious to know whether you, “ Asmo-
deus,” “reflected sadly” over that performance.
We are afraid you did not, and are sorry to think so,
because we cannot then acquit you of a want of
impartiality as a sporting writer. Had “Asmo-
deus” been fortunate enough to select “The
Bohemian ” for the Metrop., the few readers of his
matter would possibly have been spared the trouble
of perusing a paragraph seemingly meant to insinu-
ate that the horse has been purposely prevented
from doing his best to win during the last eight
months. Such innuendoes are despicable unless
based upon the very strongest suspicion, and it
will he remembered that it was a par. of this kind
by the same writer which once drew the Leader
into a libel action at the suit of Mr. E. De Mestre.
* * *
In the present issue appears an extended
list of commendatory opinions concerning “ Demo-
crat’s ” consultations. It will be seen that several
country papers have discovered that “ Democrat ”
is the soul of commercial honour. The power of
acquiring information which those provincial
papers possess is nothing less than marvellous.
* * *
Still another athletic star for the Austra-
lian firmament. George, the ex-amateur runner,
leaves England in a couple of weeks for Sydney.
Who is there in Australia to run him ?
* *
*
In the match Undaunted v. Newtown
Waratah last Saturday, for the Bowden Cup,
Sorrell, of the Undaunteds, took six wickets for 2
runs in the first innings, and 14 wickets for 15
runs in the two innings.
* * *
The championship race between Beach
and Wallace Ross resulted, as was expected, in
an easy win for Beach by four lengths, which he
apparently could have increased to anything he
liked. According to the cabled accounts, Beach
led all through, and Ross was “ never in it.” The
so-called cablegrams printed by the dailies are
huge masses of “padding” seasoned with but two
or three central facts. One of the most extra-
ordinary productions ever given to the world by
any paper is a “ cablegram ” printed in the
Sydney E. News of Monday. It is a column and
a quarter long and yet does not contain ten lines
which could not have been evolved from the
imagination of the genius who wrote it up.
* * *
Mr. Jewett, of the Messageries Maritime
Company, has now on its way here an American
centre-board yacht, 29ft. long by 12ft. beam. She
is credited with being considered a fast boat in
New York.
* * *
The boat-race versus morning prayer. We
were walking past a most fashionable Sydney
church about noon last Sunday when we were
hailed by a verger in full-flowing gown and regu-
larly sanctimonious appearance. “Hey ! can you
tell me who won the boat-race 1 ” quoth the
waiter at the doors of the Lord’s house. Astonish-
ment took our breath away for a minute, and no
answer could we give. We are afraid we re-
buked our inquisitive friend with the toga, hut
his further explanation : “ You see, sir, we hear
so many sermons that we are glad of anything for
a change,” worked up pity in our heart, and we
loved him before we left. He was so human-
even on a Sunday—and we told him no word had
come yet, and, furthermore, we only wish we
could have got the poor devil a drink. N.B.—
The Bishop was not preaching at that church.
* *
Anyone who wishes to see how meanly
the big Australian dailies behave to their readers
in the matter of cablegrams should carefully pre-
serve the alleged 1 ‘ cables ” in re the Beach-
Gaudaur and Beach-Ross matches, and compare
same with the detailed accounts in the English
sporting papers when they come to hand.
* * *
On the Barcoo the other day, a very “ shy”
bookmaker laid 20 to 8 against a certain horse,
which won easily. When called upon to pay he repu-
diated the bet, and being asked to produce his book,
did so, hut a few leaves were torn out, which he
said had been out a long time. And still they
didn’t put him in the river.
* * *
A sweepstakes—to come off at Newmarket
next month —has been arranged between the
Bard, Melton, and Ormonde. Evidently the
cracks are to meet on handicap term 3, for the
Duke of Westminster’s champion has already
smothered the other two at weight for age.
* * *
When “ our William ” rowed Teemer he
stopped to wave his hand to some friends. He
stopped twice during the race with Gaudaur, and
then his friends waved their hands at him.
* * *
After the dead heat between Tamarisk and
Crossfire for the Oaks, Mr. White agreed to divide
the stakes because Mr. Long’s filly showed symp-
toms of lameness. Humph! Such magnanimity
is phenomenal. It is like a boxer consenting to a
draw because his opponent couldn’t come up to
time.
* * *
If Beach has been backing his friend Kemp
and the other stable companions, he won’t return
so much richer than he started. It the case of
Trickett and Laycock, the second string won the
money which was dropped over the crack. This
time we had Beach winning the backers’ money
and the other fellows dribbling it away.
* * *
Before Beach gasped home in 22min. 29sec.,
the best time over the Thames champion course
was Tarryer’s—22min. 55sec. Considering that
Tarryer was a very small potato in the aquatic
world, it doesn’t look as though too much import-
ance should be attached to the time test. English
papers will give us fuller information on that
head.
Thadeus O’Kane.
Thadeus. O’Kane, of the Northern Miner,
Charters Towers (Q.), whose portrait appears in
this issue, is a plucky and hard-fighting Irishman,
whose name has become known far beyond his
own limited sphere. He was horn in 1820 at
Dingle, county Kerry, Ireland, and distinguished
himself at Maynooth, leaving that college in 1816.
The next five years he spent in London, after
which he started as a schoolmaster in his native
county and did his level best to teach the youth of
that district that there was something more in
this world than priests and “spuds.” He had a
short experience on the Tralee Chronicle, after
which he founded the Kerry Star, and threw
journalistic pearls before an animal frequently
mentioned in Scripture with so little effect that a
wind-up soon resulted. In 1863, he left for Aus-
tralia and worked in the North Australian at
Brisbane until that typographical wreck became
defunct, and having seen it decently “shoved
underground,” he proceeded to Rockhampton, the
City of Sin, Sweat, and Sorrow. Here he put in
about seven years’ working on both the papers,
which vainly endeavoured to enlighten that dreary
dog-hole on the Fltzroy, and finally growing weary
of the fifth-i ate journalism of that era, he took to
mining, an occupation which he followed for three
years with a great deal of vigour, but with no
success worth swearing by. Finally he drifted to
Charters Towers in 1873 and joined the Northern
Miner, of which paper he became proprietor six
months later. It was then a weekly, but after
passing through various stages it became an
evening daily in July, 1883. Mr. O’Kane has
since run the paper almost single-handed, and has
made things lively—or rather deadly—at the
Towers. He has an .uncompromising way of
hitting all public nuisances in the eye, and has
defended about 13 libel actions in consequence,
with another apparently looming in the distance.
Now and then he has caved and apologised—pro-
bably when the cupboard was very bare —but, as
a rule, when challenged he merely repeats the
original offence with aggravating circumstances
and tells the other man to wade in. He is now 66
years of age, and is engaged flinging his sft. 6'Jin.
of fighting manhood on the obnoxious Chinaman
against whom he has declared war to the bitter
end. As yet the Chinkies only smile with bland
complacency at his attacks, but he means dire
mischief, and we wish him every success in his
crusade.
“The Crimes of Paris,” with Mr. Philip
Beck as leading crimester (new word—patented),
is the present bill at Melbourne Royal. This sen
sational six-act synthesis of sin, sorrow, and
sudden death scored a certain sort of success in
Sydney six months since. It is doing as much in
Melbourne. Nevertheless, the Triumvirate kept
strictly within the confines of truth when they
advertised this dramatic nightmare as “ the
greatest combination of rubbish ever seen within
the walls of a theatre.” The announcement was
made in scornful defiance of a condemning press.
In the same spirit of sturdy independence the firm
published such criticisms as, “the drama is fitted
for a penny gaff in Whitechapel.’ This policy of
crying “ stinking fish” in a sarcastic tone of voice
may be smart, provided the fish doesn’t stink.
But we don’t fancy it has attracted customers in
the present instance.
The production of “ As You Like It” at
the Melbourne Bijou was interesting to Shakes-
perian students. Some new light was thrown
upon that always beautiful comedy. They saw
for the first time the master’s real purpose. The
characters of Rosalind, Orlando, Touchstone,
and others were written in order to give com-
pleteness to the wrestling scene. “As You Like
It,” in short, was originally intended to be a
Graeco-Roman wrestling entertainment. The
truth dawned upon us when we found that Pro-
fessor Miller and Mons. Victor had been specially
engaged, and were the very marrow of the whole
show. Victor was not on the programme, but
Professor Miller, it seems, has played Charles in
America. He is immense in the part. The way
in which he threw Victor, after a 20 minutes’
bout, was poetical to a degree. Then his struggle
with Orlando ! Words cannot describe the Pro-
fessor’s rendering of this passage. At the very
moment when he might have been expected to
chuck Orlando into the dress circle, the gladiator
collapsed to slow music. As an elocutionist Pro-
fessor Miller has a style of his own. He ad-
dresses his feet and emphasises his conjunctions.
Nevertheless, take it for all in all, his “ Charles
the Wrestler ”is a well-thought out piece of
work. The Professor had a great reception from
the gallery, and the rest of the company were
fairly good in their respective parts. One word
before we go. We would remind theatrical
managers that a wealth of “ variety ” business
might be introduced into “ Hamlet.” Four acts
might be cut out, and the play-scene strengthened
with sword-swallowing and a half-mile walking
contest. We can offer suggestions which have
only to be adopted to make Shakespeare knock
opera bouffe silly.
A boy who had been put into the train at
Gundagai and sent down to Sydney in order that
he might join his father called at a Sydney police
station and said he could not find his “ governor,”
whose “ direction,” he had been told, was “ G. A.
Woodland, Printer, G.P.0., Sydney.” “ Natur-
ally,” says the 1).T., “with no better direction
than this he wandered about in the city unable to
find a trace of his father. The police will be glad
to hear from anyone related to the boy.” One can
understand a policeman’s ignorance, but what
about the wooden-headedness of the newspaper
people who didn’t know that a printer could be
found at the Govt. Printing Office ?


SVNDRY SHOWS
Theatre Royal— “ The Mikado” _ u
n?r V Jl'V iX Hous VJ,‘ Romeo :tn(l Juliet ” '' P '
Gaiety Theatre—" Two Too Manv ”
Alhambra Music Hall— Minstrelsy ”
Royal Standard Theatre—" Saint or Sinner ’’ " ”15
Academy of Music-Federal Minstrels ' ‘ ”
helmoke Park— Ridgway’s Circus " " " ”
HALr - WAVERLEY-Lynch Family ” ”
It was evidently a kindly desire to pre-
vent Sydney people from gasping under a sudden
dramatic shock, which induced Mr. W. J. Hollo-
way to play the “ Ring of Iron ”at the Opera
House before putting on “ Romeo and Juliet.”
1 G al ?, t '° Ravo a I°t of nice things to say
about this latter show. It has been put on abso-
lutely regardless of financial limitations ; the
scenery is gorgeous, the dresses magnificent, and
the staging in keeping with the other appoint-
ments. With a strong cast and good acting the
play would leave nothing whatever to be desired.
* * *
Mi ss Essie Jenyns has large advantages in her
contest with the role of the ill-fated heroine. Her
natural gifts are immense. Her beauty is suffi-
cient to account for all the love-lorn lunacies of a
dozen ROlllOO3, and her figure is just built in the
way most convenient for one who wishes to fall
down gracefully. And Miss Jenyns uses her
powers with economy ; her genius is spread over
as big an area as it can be made to cover. Natur-
ally, therefore, she makes a big success, which is
only derogated from by a marked straining after
efloct. Mr. Holloway’s Romeo can hardly be
counted a perfect success ; his art is always on
stilts, his emotion usually padded and inflated, his
action spasmodic, and his attitudes unreal. In the
balcony scene ho is perhaps at his worst. It was
remarked by a lady of one Romeo that if he had
so talked to her on a balcony she would have
come down to him ; if addressed by Mr. W. J.
Holloway in the same part she would probably
have contented herself by sending down a boot
jack. In later scenes Romeo managed to forget
his audience to some extent, but his performance
is not likely to become historic—in the way he
would like it to be, anyhow. Mr. Charles Holloway
did not make a boundless success of Friar
Laurence, for he is a decided victim to the
epidemic staginess which, in a greater or less
degree, infected the entire company. Mcrcuto
Mr. Richard Stewart, was not equal to some ex-
ponents of the character whom we have seen ; and
Tybalt filled a long-felt want in killing him out of
the play. If the death of Mercutio could be
brought off in future performances before the
curtain rises, , we think it would add to the general
enjoyment. Lady Capulet managed her business
satisfactorily, a compliment that cannot be credited
to Miss Kate Arden, whose personation of the
Nurse was as rugged as the devious ways of a
prominent politician. Of the other characters we
will not speak, for our bump of benevolence is in
size and shape like unto the great pyramid of
Egypt.
## # #
“ Two Too Many,” at Sydney Gaiety, is a
comedy which every citizen should see before he
dies—as shortly before as possible. It is the story
of two young men, each possessed of a wealthy
uncle, one being the nephew of an agricultural
person who says he must not marry, and the
other related to a Dutchman who wants him to
take a wife instantly. The first is, of course, en-
gaged, his betrothed being the daughter of two
lunatics, and on the day before his wedding he is
busj trying to smooth matters with a previous
fianeb when a hideously insane cackle outside the
door announces his future father-in-law. In this
dilemma he passes the lady off as his friend’s wife
and in that capacity she is introduced to a damp
and weeping old woman and invited to the wed-
ding. Next the clodhopping uncle turns up sud-
denly, and the nephew finds it necessary to pass
off his bride also as his friend’s property, and a
Dutch roar outside the door heralds the other
man’s relative, whose arrival is equally unex-
pected. He is accompanied, by a fresh-caught
damsel named Snichenhulznehozen whom he
orders his unhappy nephew to marry at once, and
that bewildered wretch only escapes for the
moment by asserting that he is already wedded to
his landlady’s daughter. By this device he finds
himself saddled with three wives in all, and his
misery is completed when the father-in-law again
toddles in and smilingly invites both uncles
and or three wives to attend the cere-
mony. Under these saddening circumstances it is
necessary to have recourse to stratagem. One un-
cle is sent on a false scent to a church five miles
distant, the other has a dose of laudanum
put in his coffee ; and a trap is laid for the most
noisy and obstreperous of the three wives. With
these precautions the marriage passes off quietly,
but aftei the ceremony, just as a short-trousered
ma,n, with ankles that might sustain a prize ox, is
endeavouring to console a lady who is literally
soaked with tears, there is a vengeful inrush. The
room is filled with wives and dried-up uncles and
femchenhulznehozen, and at this crisis, when
readiness of resource is most needed, the bride-
groom s jaw drops and he falls asleep standing
having unconseiousiy swallowed the opiate in’
tended for his remorseless relative. It is chari-
tably supposed that he is drunk, and, after being
dragged about for some time like a lap-dog on a
string, he 13 thrown out, and the interest of the
comedy is at an end. The last act contains an
attempted swindle and a joke about a pair of
breeches, and winds up after the manner of a
Sunday-school tract.
* * *
Aw Tl a e w fa uv er “ in : law ’ as Pourtrayed by Mr.
Alfred Maltby is the life of the piece. He is an
imbecile, limp, doddering ass who seems to have
taken unto himself seven other asses each worse
than the first and rolled the whole herd into one
star combination inside a short pair of pants. He
is uncertain on his legs, and tottering in his in-
tellect, he hangs about in inane shreds all over
e stage, he is drunkenly, flabbily, insanely jolly
hroughout, his brains have sunk into his jaw,
and his jaw has sunk into his collar. Mr. St.
Maur as the Flying Dutchman is prosaic and
shrivelled, and the only fault that can be found
with him is that his accent hails sometimes from
. ngen on the Rhine and sometimes from no place
in particular. Messrs. Fenton, Stanfield and Cal-
vert, are moderately good, and among the ladies
It- as the eter nal mother-in-law (with
sobs), Miss Pattie Browne as Carlotto Snich-to-be-
contmued-in-our-next, and Miss Nolly Mortyne in
the character of Polly Pidgeon are about the best,
:< r ?, ugh rl f e ® ye our vote for the last named lady.
Many” will be produced at the Gaiety
until further notice.
## # #
Romeo and Juliet” was played for the
second time at the Sydney Standard to an audience
ot largo, if not absolutely colossal, proportions.
Miss Dampier improved considerably on her first
conception of Juliet, and gave an eminently grati-
T Z l * l ? ve rsion of the part. Her range of art hardly
eaches the top notes of Shakespeare’s work, but
her ardour and simplicity in love were such as to
induce the casual observer to believe that Miss
Dampier is, or has been, in love. The casual ob-
server is right, else have we nightly attended the
Standard for many weeks in vain. Miss Dampier’s
Juliet is natural throughout: her love, her tremor
her raptures, are real; it is only her despair which
s ows signs of adulteration. Romeo was a careful
u j ,he signs of B tudy were just a trifle too
abundant. Mercutio was so genuine and rollick-
ing a fellow as to make his too early decease a
matter for general regret; and the nurse, Miss
Julia Merton, was about as good as they make
em.
## # #
“Saint or Sinner,” an adaptation of Victor
Hugo’s great work “Les Miserables,” is now
“HOW SHALL I SIT?”
"I THINK YOU LOOK TO MORE ADVANTAGE SIDEWAYS.”
"WHY, WHAT MAKES YOU THINK THAT?”
“WELL, YOU SEE, IT ONLY SHOWS HALF YOUR FACE.”
spread on Fame’s eternal dumping-ground at
neither J }? ya |. Stan . dard - We sincerely trust that
Dammer nor any other members of
the howlmg menagerie may break loose unex-
pectedly for in the present piece they are certainly
the most villainous guttural crowd that we ever-
set eyes upon. Valjean in the first act is a ragged
ZfV Sa T.f? e who solil °q ui 2es in a roar like
that of a wild beast, and when he descends like a
aging fiend on the bishop’s forks and spoons he is
an awf ui object to contemp]ate . The
clothes suggests that he must be a perfect whale
at tearing, for he looks like a scarecrow that has
been blown up in a dynamite factory, and he
chimps heavily along the paths of sin like an
] r e^ anfc bound for Sheol. Thenardier (Mr. Caesar)
nhA the mt S tv OUltmg afc this Bta^e - He wants
to be a little thinner, a trifle more sallow, angular
bony, and shapeless, and he ought to be a good
deal more of the unspeakable brute whom Hug
E n fc BtiU he is in first stage o
hopeless beastliness, and shows gratifying sign
arf 0f being a curse society
The bishop and the spoons are almost the only re
eeming features among this surrounding wicked
ness, and the former carries more morality to the
square inch than any man we ever met He is the
sort of individual who would fi x his diocesan eye
hahVtW fh d tell th6 # brute from Bheer force of
habit that the wages of sin are death, and that he
may keep the stolen jewellery and go and lead a
°! the proo “ as :1» isilmostbri
backed through carrying other people’s sins, and
solemn texts issue from his head on the slightest
provocation. Mr. Holloway would hardly be
acceptable as a permanent bishop. In the second
act Jean Valjean has developed from a tattered
soup-devouring monster into a
respectable citizen who runs a brummagem but-
ton-factory and dispenses the profits of his swindle
m charity, and he improves as the drama goes on.
He endeavours to rescue a gentleman whose
trousers have been eaten by rats; he fights
~fa ier ’ a W \° h f 3Unk b - vr thi « time into a
wrecked and shapeless idiot coated two inches
d ‘ rt ’ an u Thenardier himself
by fighting a small man and knocking all his
features together; he cleans out the whole town
bucLT o and a r«,f nd , abdUCt3 a small with a
offprint’ h« d llnalljr i ie uses himself up as a burn
enng, being urged thereto by the ferocity of
spoont 3 an , dthe , recollecti °nof the bishop
but after a to im P ris °nment for life
duc after a while gets over the wall and come
wom b rd g abo?wh d hl MS eacape a -She
and a bo > who wears his shirt outside.
*
t ? am P ier makos a striking success o
?“*■* «»»>*“Tuto
mn JvVin th flrsfc acfc and the button-swindling
naityr of the second. Mr. Ctesar, as Thenardier
is tolerably successful, but he is so completely
him ° h Mr Xn I 111 *™? that we longed fc ° kick
deserves eredU^Tn" 1 th ° character ° f Javert,
aeserves credit, and the monotonous Bishop (Mr
Holloway) and M. Gillenormaud, a hoppW cen-
tenarian (Mr. Leston), helped to fill a gap. Half-a
drelT S h °va^o tlein ? naPPear ° d aS assorted scoun-
.. m , var . lous descriptions, and looked as
ufhanly as circumstances required. Among the
ladies Miss Bussell was a good Fantine
Th!' a rL ° n m . ight havo been worse as Madame
SBTCS SLSTSI S£Z.'%2S3£!
E'thrSoSg^ 86 " I ' but w » d “' l «
## # #
~.? n , s P.^ e fcke continued success of “The
Mikado, at Sydney Royal, Pooh Bah and
his accomplices retire on Friday and give
place to lolanthe.” Half-a-dozen other
bort and a SulUv° f nl ?P anced > amongst them Gil-
bert and Sullivans Sorcerer,’ which has never
fist rerf in N,s ;Tv Lo ° king d ° wn
list we find that one of the promised nieces is
most successful,” another is a “ success of suc-
wo S rk ” a ? d follow f ing theSe COlne a “ sublime
, favounfce dramatic cantata,” and an
alfair which seems to be only second-rate, for it
is merely described as “ well-remembered,” while
a chef d ceuvre brings up the tail end of the
forthe f°uture. G adjectives ins P ire us with hope
A farewell benefit to Mr. Hiscocks w
given by the Federal Minstrels at Sydney Academ;
on Monday night, and in the course of anothe
week the played-out Caucasian, in the shape o
the Rickards-Leete combination, will tread wher
the shiny nigger has hitherto been supreme. Th
programme was a good one as Ethiopian pro
grammes go, though when J. S. Porter got up an
sung that he’d “ Conquer or Die ” we were in
dined to take exception to the assertion. H
looks too much like a man of peace to conque
anything larger than a cat, and unless som
disease is preying on his vitals we see no urger
reason why he should die just yet. A loude
scream than usual hailed the appearance o
Beach s photo., and for the time being even th
Governor is out of the running. “ The Hottentots
was the chief novelty of the programme, anc
these mendacious, malodorous barbarians got i
pretty good reception, though, so far as appear
ance went, they might have been kanakas, or
coloured bishops from Central Africa, for there
was nothing to identify them with the horse
thieves of the Cape. The Raynor Brothers
resuscitated their best programme, including the
favourite cats’ duet; Professor Bent, gave a lec
com i° —on English history
and Lucrezia Borgia ” concluded the evening’s
amusement. The Federals proceed next to Mel-
bourne, and we will thus have a little time to
recover our mental balance.
## # #
The remorseless Lynch Family have started
on their suburban campaign, playing on Monday
and Tuesday to houses of the crowded order at
Burwood and Ashfleld. The company has had
hard luck lately in the death of Professor Statham
and the illness of two of the brothers ; the latter
pair are now so far recovered as to do the bell-
ringing with unimpaired energy and skill.
## # #
Miss Florence Wade and Mr. Alleyne ter-
minated their short reign at the Bijou with a ben.,
and Messrs. Frank Thornton and Harwood are
putting in 12 nights of the “ Private Secretary.”
Anon Mr. Harwood takes up his quarters at the
Hnn™s°,? Se ’ to business manage for the Brough-
Boucicault combination*
## # #
The Melbourne Opera House will be pulled
down in 12 months. It is unlikely that a new
theatre will be built upon the site.
Tk® Widow °’ B “ en is doing splendid busi-
ness at St. George’s Hall, Melbourne.
fn ,P re & tures of impulse are these play-acting
folk. One day they quarrel, the next day they
V>rri and ma K ke i lfc UP- Miss Emelie Melville and
Verdi are back again at the Melbourne Opera
House. So is that historic chest which the signor
carried oil in a van. The dispute, “ strike,” and
assault case are forgotten and forgiven. Well
weU let brotherly love continue! “ Girofle!
Girolla was last week’s bill, and “Carmen” will
*; he mgnold and Allison season through.
It terminates on the 30th. 8
rn r ’ Richardson, a Shakespearian
reader, has caught on in Melbourne, lie has a
memory™ 06 ’ * gniceful nianner . and a wonderful
A giddy Hobart parson has formed his flock
into an amateur theatrical company, and plays tho
leading parts himself. Their repertoire indues
Ihe Devil among tho Tailors.” We sup Dose ilio
parson filled the title rdle. suppose the
Some Miscellaneous Items.—That old Aus-
tralian favourite, Henry Ilallam (Hattie Sheu-
paid s widower) is singing in opera at Now York
......Jeannie Winston (who once caused a sensa-
tmn by fighting Clara Thompson in real earnest
on a Melbourne stage) lately obtained a divorce
fiom her husband, and reported as about to re
enter the matrimonia l sphere at Portland, Oregon.
£ d W ar d has just left England for America.
Bessie Doyle concert is to take place in
Sydney on the Ist Oct. It is under vice le
pati onage and therefore seems likely to be as sue
veteran a of tS thT r ? S i deSerVe Sam How ard, a
veteran of the Sydney stage (dear old Sara
Flower was his wife), died last week from
congesfron of the lungs. A subscription tor Ms
adopted ch , i!d has been started by Mr.
Edward Holloway Dion Boucicault’s “ Jilt ”is
Mis a l- Lsic e M ? r ltS dial T' e hy Lon <lon critics
were thrown on to the stage. y ' egeta bles
MR. H. R. HARWOOD.
i' Harwood being about to return to Melbourne
y a ® hort engagement in the Bijou Theatre
ms to taking the business management of
)pera House under Messrs. Brough and
cault we deem it a befitting time to give a
sketch of tins worthy and prominent Victor
larwood was born in London in 1830 and
rought up to his father’s business, that of a
tails, m 1852 he decided to strike out for
If, and seek his fortune in that golden Con-
’ . Australia. While assiduously following
Img, the genius in the man would uncon
ly assert itself, and, but awaited an
opportunity for development. The onnort nnitv-
presented itself in 1855, when, on a visit to Sydney
he made his first appearance on the stage at the
Victoria Theatre, in the character ofFvl n!
Corruna m the play of “Brutus ” Tnio la \ ule
in S G. V. Brooke’s first engagementttaJ ™Zter
turned® LT? ° f PartS ’ Mr ’ Harwood re-
wh faUh s tW 11 ' an appcared at Ballarat-
ffjrsrasf sstissm
Ids versatmty!h; went totolKqu^WanlSe 6
Mazeppa, Dick Turpin, Timor the Tartar, etc l but
the allurements of the dramatic stage proving too
trong to be resisted, he returned to his first love
abandoning sawdust for the boards and ulaved
G V. Brooke's Benedick “ " M*S
Ado About Nothing.” Such success attended
n lS n agement ’ that Mr ’ Br °oke engaged him
for Melbourne, where he first axmeared of n
Theatre Royal as Ye Ancient Pistol, in “ The Merry
Wives of V mdsor.” From this date onwards Mr
Harwood has performed with unvarying success
leading characters in every line of theatrical
business. His Macduff and Richmond are unani-
mously and justly set down as great in,persona
turns. Mo Davis, in “The Flying Sc m
the ejaculation “Jumping Moses,” a bye-word
throughout Australasia. His Cassandra-” SiZo
of Troy;’’ Sir Oliver Surface-” School for
Scandal; Brabanito—“ Othello,” are well re
membered ; while his Mike Feeney-'“ Arrah Na
Pogue,’ played during Barry Sullivan’s efgagc
characters °"° ° f h ' S
In 180 1, Mr. Harwood became associated with
Messrs. Lambert, Vincent, Bellair, Stewart and
Hennings as managers of the Theatre Royal aptly
termed the Drury Lane of Australia. ‘H e has
since, as business manager, been actively engaged
and has twme visited England in search of stirs’
In 1877 he retired from the Theatre Royal maSe-
ment, and removed to Sydney, where he becifie
proprietor of the Oxford Hotel, which he feZ
?S e / T fc ,°. again re-enter theatrical life. He
visited India, and from there went to London re
L™ g n to Australia with the famous Tambour
Majoi Opera Co., in which, he made a colossi!
success of the part of the Duke Della Volta. More
recently, his Cattermole, in “The Private Score
tary,” has been an immense hi?. physical
s rain on a person undergoing such £2
changes of climate, water, and food, and the wear
lt dV^T 8 enorgies - is something
enormous. It does not surprise us, however to
learn, as we do, from Townsville, Queensland
where Mr. Harwood, at the present writing not
js, that after being under different doctorsfreat-
ment for some considerable time for agg-avated
kidney trouble, with comparatively little benefit
he owes his rapid and remarkable restoration to
vigorous health and strength to Warner's safe
cure. This preparation is justly recognised by the
pi ofession as the best and safest remedy known
or Bright s disease, and all forms of kidney and
liver difficulty, indigestion, etc., from whTch S o
manj suffer, and its large sale among the pi ofession
is something phenomenal. The average theatrS
mail has seen too much of the world to be hum-
bugged, but when he knows and feels that an
article is all that is claimed for it, he is the first
one to give it a generous meed of praise M?
Harwood shortly returns to Melbourne, where’
after a short engagement at the Bijou Theatre’
Ot.m H 8 the Pusiness management of the
Opera House, a similar position to that he occuuicd
for Messrs. Williamson, Gamer and Sgroy?
. I" conclusion, we may say that H. R. Harwood
is a thorough gentleman, a true friend, a conS
entious and painstaking actor. His word is os
good as his bond, and he eniovs in „ • a !
men? 6 ’ respect and confidence of his felffiwl


Pepper And Salt
tn Adelaide the prevailing rush of hypo-
crisy to the head has infected evc*i the pugilists,
wife-beaters, and hoodlums, and now the prowl-
ing midnight ruffian remarks that “ the ungodly
shall not stand ” as he “ jobs” his victim in t he oye,
and the latter, lying on his hack in the gutter,
hears the tail-end of something about regeneration
by faith as a pair of cow-hide boots and his gold
watch disappear round the corner, _ A week ago
a loving •ouple faced each other in an Adelaide
baek street, the male brute armed with a knobby
stick, the female with a bottle, and eacli expressed
a burning desire for the other ‘ blaggard to
come on. Then a policeman hove round the
corner, and as he did so the pair threw themselves
into each other's arms, the fond wife sobbing ;
“Oh ! John, don’t leave me and go away in that
horrid steamer—don’t, I implore you, for my sake
and the sake of the little ones to winch
the pillar of the household responded in broken ac-
cents : “ Mary, I must go, love ; I can’t get work
bore, and I must earn some bread for you and the
little ones.” At this moment the policeman un-
hove himself round the next corner. Mary, with
her head resting on her husband’s shoulder, was
the first to note his disappearance, and in another
instant the bottle concussed on John’s head and
flew into fragments. Then John gave the fond
clinging creature a “ wonner” with his fist that
made her double up and howl again, and as she
doubled up he hit her all down the hack with his
club, while the falling Mary grabbed at his legs as
she went down and tilted him into the gutter.
Another officer then loomed in the distance, and
John carried his darling in, her arms round his
neck the while, and whopped her till she could
hardly move in the seclusion of their ’umble ’ome.
* *
Messrs. Jensen and Co., of London, ad-
vertise that their firm has been established to
supply “ settlers in the colonies” with a long-felt
Want—a want which dates back to the creation of
man. Messrs. J. and Co. are prepared to furnish
the addressee of respectable young women who
are willing to communicate with settlers in the
colonies, bona tradesmen, farmers, and others
desirous of meeting with useful wives. Appli-
cants should state their particular requirements
and preferences, enclosing postal order for 2s. to
meet preliminary expanses. For the special in-
formation of sighing selectors in the back blocks,
where the foot of the white woman seldom treads,
we may mention that Messrs. Jensen and Co. are
just opening up a choice assortment of summer
‘ goods,” and can he relied upon to execute orders
With dispatch. Why, we sent our little order (for
six wives) early in June, and the first three are
already to hand. The others are following per
Sailing vessel. Pass the lute •
“ The portraits of the Georges are to be
removed from the Council-chamber of the Water-
ford Corporation to make room for those of better
men.” We clip that out of a London paper. The
men here referred to are fat turtle-tasters, no
doubt. But even four aldermen are better than
four Georges^-
Judge Holroyd, of Victoria, may not be
actually nasty, but he is confoundedly particular,
the other day, when a lady asserted on her solemn
iudicial swear that she was born in a certain placet,
he demanded indignantly how she could make,
such a declaration when she had only been r a .
formed of the fait', and the flabbergasted witp ess
could not collect hdr senses in time to retort, that j
she was there and ought to know. This, is the I
kind of bothering official who thinks that he wakes
in |tho morning and, rising from his alleged bed
puts what he has been told are his clothes on to
what he solemnly believes to be his body. In his
judicial capacity he now and then passes what he
means to be a sentence of 10 years on a hideous
object which he fancies is the prisoner, but perhaps
in his uncertainty he may some day make a mis-
take and pass sentence on the jury instead. It is
hard to tell where Judge Holroyd’s passion for ac-
curacy may not land him some of these days.
* * *
Rev. Jefferis, having talked clean off Aus-
tralian soil most other sorts of wickedness, last
Sunday attacked gambling. Our holy friend is
quite right in denouncing this practice, especially
as he is able to add the force of his example to the
weight of his anathemas. A man is a fool to
gamble if he lias anything to lose. The clergyman
who, like Rev. Jefferis, has a snug and certain
£lOOO a year, would be a fool if he played half-
crown Nap all night with a pressman that worked
the business on the 1.0. U. principle. The clergy
are quite right in confining their gambling opera-
tions t o the safe land specs, into which they are put
by pious auctioneers.
* * *
A little story of what may happen to a man
in Australia —a romantic, touching, hungry yarn.
Last year Genevieve Ward performed a dreary
Greek play at the Melbourne Town Hall to a £llOOO
“ house.” The money was to be devoted to the
building of a new wing to what was then called
the Lying-in Hospital. At the particular request
of “sassiety” the name of this institution was al-
tered to the “ Women’s Hospital,” cither because
the old appellation made “ sassiety” blush, or else
because men came knocking at the door thinking
that they could lie in. But no matter. Plans were
invited for the Genevieve Ward wing, and the
hospital committee offered a £lOO prize for the best
design. The drawings were submitted anony-
mously, and after many deliberations and much
sherry and biscuits, the “ century” was awarded
to an unknown competing under the nom de plume
of “Isolation.” The committee’s decision was
tardily announced, but nobody called for the little
cheque. “Isolation,” apparently, lived outside
the pale of humanity, and never read newspapers.
Enquiries were made, and it was discovered that
“Isolation” was a Mr. Snell, and that Mr. Snell
was a dead ’un. Yes, dear friends. Two days
before the bit of luck fell due, the poor devil—
hard-up and hungry—had suicided. While the
committee were stroking their paunches and dilly-
dallying with the plans, hope deferred was turning
“ Isolation’s” brain. Snell —son of the famous
London architect—was always an eccentric, ox-
citable fellow. It was his misfortune to be a
genius, with a genius’s inability to make money.
He was wont to boast that “ God had made him
an architect.” Let us hope he is now busy with
some inspired plans for his own mansion in the
skies. Poor Isolation Snell !
* * *
The London Law Journal thus antici-
pates the passing of that everlasting Deceased
Wife’s Sister Bill“ Two brothers marry two
sisters, and one brother and one sister die under
the ordeal. The surviving widower can marry
the surviving widow because she is his deceased
wife’s sister. So far so good. But the Bill doesn’t
allow a widow to marry the dear departed’s
brother.” See that now. Under such conditions
it will be possible for a widow to be her own
brother-in-law’s wife.”
All sorts of rumours respecting Sir Henry
Parkes have been circulated of late, from the one
which created him Agent-General down to that
which spoke of him as being engaged to succeed
Boothman as Romeo, but the most startling report
of all came from Blayney, where, we are told, the
people were thrown into a terrible state of con-
sternation by the news that Sir Henry had dk
suddenly in Sydney and had left two millions r -d
ing to public charities. There was nothi r
extraordinary about the two million por+ very
canard, of course, but it is hard to mu of the
any community which knows al l oelieve that
being taken up to heaven in a fie about Elijah
by four bright bays, could giv /y chariot drawn
port that Sir Henry had s’ e credence to a re-
vulgar, commonplace me dipped off by such a
Nevertheless, the Blay- .ans as that of dying,
local paper informs ur . ne y boobie3 did, for the
“The respected tear’ -
made it a point of .ier at the public school, Mr. Price,
school that the ger' informing the children attending the
first public schoo’ deman who had opened that school—the
Act—was no i r • that was opened under the Public Schools
Under the '? r ®',
be at O r ' mis taken notion that the school would!
all tb' “ ce c l° se< l for a week’s general mourning,
r J youngsters immediately began to grin. lik»
uany baked ’possums, and one urchin,, more
aring than the rest, squeaked out, ‘ ‘ Tre«- cheers
for Mister Parkes !’’ after whiejh a one-act tragedy"
t ook place in which the gable-< tid of the squeaker’.';
pants, the schoolmaster, and a r
played very touching parts. A- great gloom, as :
thick almost a 3 a pair of blanks s, settled on.the
town, and prepaiations were sttt once made- to pay,;
Ile honour to the mighty dead. Mourning
lers were cut, the flrebell was rung, the
started sobering up to play the Dead March,
esolutions were about to be passed, when
ne struck the happy thought that a “ couple
” would pay for a telegram containing all
ews. The message was sent, a reply re-
1, and misery once more reigned in Blayney.
* * *
e Christian Colonist (Adelaide) asks :
l a good man with a cigar in his mouth talk
ively to a boy with a cigarette in his
ti ? ” We think it depends greatly on the
man’g cheek and the size of the boy, but we
l like to know also if a clergyman with a
p, a hat like an accordeon, a black eye, and
h that ought to pay a duty of ss. per gallon,
ilk religiously to an elder with a broken
and a pawn-ticket. We have seen this done,
ve think one job is about as hard as the other.
* * *
nee George Augustus Sala, in a dyspeptic
ent, stigmatised the Yorick Clubists as a
ig of cads,” Melbourne journalism has, meta-
cally speaking, sat upon Augustus and all his
s. Truth to tell, the old hand has lost a
of its cunning in these latter days, but we
allow the plump “special” to be slandered
Le Age. A moribund lion must bo protected
the imbecile onslaughts of a live donkey. To
lin. It seems that Sala recently wrote that
tr Allen Poe would never have made “ dis-
Aden” rhyme with “ sainted maiden ” if he
jet foot on the place. G.A.S. omitted to add
otnote explaining that this was meant for
■kusm.” The average reader can understand
; little jokes without the assistance of a key.
an Age genius, in all vindictivo solemnity,
3 up to ridicule this “singular literary blun-
’ The erudite simpleton tells us that Sala is
Aden, the British Port and coaling-
on, with the Hindustanee word Aidenn,
aing Paradise.” Intoxicated by the discovery
lis mare’s-nest, the Age goes on to drivel that
3 blunder exemplefles the mischief of quoting
i memory in more ways than one, for the
al rhyme in the poem is not 4 sainted maiden,
4 sorrow laden,’ the words quoted occurring
le following line.” Great Scott! This come 3
tting the wretch read poetry. There are two
tual rhymes ” to Aidenn :
ill this soul, with sorrow laden, if within the
distant Aidenn
hall clasp a’sainted maiden whom the angels
name Lenore.”
ads ! Odds Bodds ! And he thinks that Sala
jines that Poe dreamed of cuddling his girl on
aling-station !! But we can write no more,
er one bloody deed than a continuance of
e horrible Age atrocities. Buy us a return
et to Melbourne and a good, big, blunt meat-
We’ll bring the monster back, stuffed.
TO TRADESMEN, FARMERS, AND OTHERS.
Take heart, ye young men who are single,
And sigh for a suitable mate —
Whose life with your life will commingle
In the blessed connubial state ;
Take heart, ye young tradesmen and farmers,
Straight away to the post-office go,
And place orders for feminine charmers
With Jensen and Co.
Oh ! a blessing and boon to our sex is
This Arm ; you have merely to write
(While enclosing two shillings for exes..)
And wait for the promised delight;
You mention the sort which you fancy—
Face, figure, and size, so and so —
Then they find you a likely fiancee,
Do Jensen and Co.
Plump and petite, or lanky and bony—
Dark, fair, ruddy-tinted, or pale—
Old-fashioned, or dashing and “ tony
The firm have all classes on sale ;
They are always in stock, well-assorted,
And anxious and willing for beaux—
Just waiting their turns to be courted
Through Jensen and Co.
Ah, the joy of engaging a missis
Who whispers, on paper, her “ yes” !
To receive, through the post, her first kisses,
And feel her warm written caress !
If you really mean biz. (bona Jicle)
Bid adieu to all bachelor woe —
Get a girl, guaranteed clean and tidy,
From Jensen and Co.
But when you’ve imported the darling,
And made her your own little wife.
Pray avoid idle snapping and snarling—
Sheer clear of coniugal strife ;
For a Hades on earth can be hotter
Than the home which awaits us below —
So be warned and don’t say when you’ve got her,
“ d n Jensen and Co. ! ”
Adieu, then, ye German quartette—
Go, hide jour gross sensual faces :
Your absence will no one regret
When better men hang in your places ;
Things of an evil old past,
Distinguished for nought hut your orgies—
Ye never wdfe properly classed
Till Thackeray wrote “ The Four Georges.”
Divil a tear will we shed
O’er ever a one of your number—
We’ll murmur “ good riddance ” instead
To sueh a collection of lumber ;
Good bye ! Tra-la-la ! Get away !
A grocer who guzzles and gorges
Is better than ye, anyday—
Four gorgers shall oust the four Georges.
CONNUBIAL COMPLICATIONS
Tom and Will, twin brothers, courted Jess and
Jane —twin sisters they ;
Will and Tommy popped the question both toge-
ther on one day,
Jane and Jessie blushed and simpered, hanging
each her little head ;
Gaily rang the village church bells when the
ardent four were wed.
Onward went the years a-rolling (Father Time
stands never still)
Tom was stricken down with fever, so was Jane
(who married Will).
Jane and Thomas went to Heaven, went to join
the angel band —
Willie, out of love for Jenny, offered her his heart
and hand.
“ You are my deceased wife’s sister, and the
match is legal quite,”
Murmured Will in accents tender ; Jessie s
widowed cheek turned white —
“ You are my poor husband’s brother” —Willie
looked uncommon blue —
Though you marry me, remember, I can never
marry you.”
Willie scratched his head in wonder, sat reflecting
for a while ;
Presently his face was brightened by the sem-
blance of a smile—
“ Let not, Jess, a legal blunder cast a shadow
o’er your life,
I shall be just like a husband if I wed you as my
wife.”
Gaily rang the village church bells, as they rang
in other years ;
Will and Jessie walked together down this weary
vale of tears,
They were treated by the parson on a pre-arranged
plan—
Willie merely “ took this woman,” Jessie never
“ took this man.”
POLITICAL
POINTS
When Viceroy Aberdeen was leaving
Dublin he doffed his hat to a portrait of Parnell.
N.S.W. has 24,000 Civil servants. Nearly
two-and-a-half per cent, of the whole population
are employed and paid by the public !
Freetrade England raises about£2o,ooo,ooo
annually from customs duties, levied chiefly on
articles consumed by the poorer classes.
The Victorians are at last beginning to
“tumble” that Graham Berry is merely bidding
for cheap notoriety with his eternal questions
about the New Hebrides. The voice of Melbourne
bids him “ dry up.”
It is reported that Major Atkinson is about
to retire temporarily from N.Z. politics—that is to
say, he wants to see if anyone will miss him suffi-
ciently to ask him to come back. Somehow the
country has not appreciated Atkinson. He was a
good soldier, but since his entrance into Parlia-
ment he has got on by his stupidityal one.
England says she “ won’t withdraw from
Egypt because she can’t trust France there.” The
modesty of the British Tories is overwhelming.
We like to hear a nation which for years past has
been bungling and running a shent per shent loan- J
office in the miserable country which N.S.W, has
helped to enslave, talk about “trusting” {W
body. A'
That leader in Monday’s Sydw
commencing with three-quarters of ac -A E. I.
“ clouded sky of European .olumnon the
up with an awful two-line cautP and winding
sity for helping the Presbytr _>n about the neces-
on to their cocoa-nut estat" jrian parsons to hold
is as delusive, annoyir os in the New Hebrides,
patent-medicine adv r .g, and unconvincing as a
Mr J g V
main, has de _xawthome, M.L.A. for Bal-
with the cp .dared that he “has no sympathy
from the rise of Protection. Sooner than depart
at tb' . Freetrade views he so freely expressed
the j last general Election he will stay outside
- Legislative Assembly of N.S.W.” The Bal-
.nainites (who are nearly all working men and
Protectionists) have also made up their minds that
J. S. Hawthorne is to stay out of the Assembly.
According to an article by an Irishman in
the Fortnightly Review, the knives with which
the Phoenix Park murders were committed “ were
bought with the money of the Leaguers. They
were first given to a Fenian cobbler to cover them
with leather sheaths, and from his shop they were
carried to the office of the League by the brother
of the secretary of the League, and there they lay
until they were entrusted to the wife of the secre-
tary of the League to convey them to Dublin.
Carey received them from her hands. He knew
her well, but when confronted with her he refused
to say the word which would have placed her in
the dock for murder.”
Mr. Postmaster-General Suttor officially
remarks that post and telegraph masters ‘ ‘ do not
receive accumulative leave of absence because
they are not classified under the Civil Service
Act.” This seems very like acting on the princi-
ple that two wrongs make one right The tele-
graph operators appear to have a greater griev-
ance, however, for should one of require a
day’s leave, not only has he to pay a “ grasser,”
or spare operator to take his place, but the day is
also deducted from the two weeks supposed to be
I annually allowed him. It is highly satisfactory*
however, to know that this does not apply to
officers Wf higher grades.
Law is law. In Sutherland, Scotland, an
unfortunate is in trouble through stealing a ban-
quet which was meant for a pig, The owner of
the hog noticed that the Jew-cursed animal was
growing thin, while a penniless peasant who was
out of work and had no means of supporting liis
family, had not yet died of starvation, as accord*
ing to the laws of political economy he should
have done, and a watch being set it was dis-
covered that the unfortunate Celt and his children
were living by the perpetration of an unchristian
fraud on the swine. Glorious Britain, where the
poor live by robbing the pigs, and the land-owners
hy robbing the poor become hog-thieves at second-
hand !
“ Loyalty ” is not yet dead in England
A Times correspondent says that after the re
moval of the bandages from the mummy of
Raineses 11. (an Egyptian monarch who died long
ere the birth of Moses) the writer saw a com-
plexion “earthy-brown splotched with black,”
eyes small and close together, the temples “sun-
ken,” cheek-bones “very prominent,” ears
“ standing far from the head,” jaw-bone “ heavy,”
mouth “ thick-lipped and full of some kind of
paste,” expression “ unintellectual, perhaps
slightly animal.’’ And now the grovel comes in J
“ But even under the somewhat grotesque dis-
guise of mummification, there is plainly seen an
air of sovereign majesty ! ” Ye gods!
The total acreage of Scotland is 18,94(5,094.
The Duke of Sutherland owns 1,326,000 acres in
Scotland, besides 32,095 acres in England. His
wife holds in addition 149,879 acres in her own,
right. A second landowner has 431,000 acres, a
third 424,000, a fourth 373,000, a fifth 306,000.
Twelve proprietors possess 4,339,722 acres, or-
nearly one-quarter of the whole of Scotland ; or,,
in other words, a tract of country larger than the:
whole of Wales. Twenty owners have each more
than 120,000 acres. Twenty-four hold 4,931,884,
or more than one-quarter of Scotland. Seventy
landlords have among them 9,400.000 acres, or
about one-half of Scotland. Nine-tenths of the
whole country belong to less than 1700 persons !
Mr. Henson, M.L.A., who has just re-
turned from Wagga, says that he finds the people
there thoroughly alive to the benefits of local
option. So they ought to be. When a Wagga
man decides to go on a “ tear ” he has the option
of choosing any one of the 46 local pubs, for his
enjoyment. A visitor can only commit one un-
pardonable sin in Wagga —that sin is to go to bed
sober, thus insulting Wagga liquor, despising
Wagga hospitality, and outraging Wagga custom.
There is so much latent humour in Mr. Henson’s re*
mark that we would like to hear him on some
other important subject, such, for instance as the
“ Marriage Bond, its Uses and Advantages,” cr
the “ Moral tendencies and comforts of Mormon-
ism.”
“Australians,” says a young Cornstalk
who has travelled, in a letter to The Bulletin,
“do not seem animated with the slightest ambi-
tion to govern themselves. They could not be
more apathetic if they were African negroes.
Now that Premier Jennings is at his wits’ end to
find some gigantic scheme by which to celebrate
our so-called ‘ centenary,’ I would suggest to him
that on the alleged hundredth anniversary of
N.S.W; he should convey a gentle intimation to .
England that we wish to get rid of our Tory
Governors and elect our own ; that it is the desire
of Australia to disown “ distinguished colonists; ” '
and that we wish to start business on our own i
bottom, and abolish K.C.M.G.’s. If he would do >
this he would make a second George Wash, off
himself, without inflieting upon any one the evil!
results of a 15 days’ drunk.”
“ C. A. Maxwell,” is permitted to say ini
the Sydney D.T. apropos of the German cheap-
labour question, that “ Foreigners seem to have; a
gift of acquiring easily other languages. In thoil
line the English clerk cannot compete ; he mustt
stick to plain English, and by shrewdness, tact,
industry and honesty he will maintain his posP
tion.” This “sticking to plain English” is the
old-fashioned mulish idea which makes that
miserable drudge, the typical English clerk, tv.
mere slave to his master. The Englishman woo’
learn languages, or anything else, every wb‘ - ll
easily as does the disciplined German, ’’ ■ lt , as
like that German, in a measure eoum -*' ere
so. The English clerk who “ stick 1 ' ..elled to do
lish ” and honest Maxwellian P l ' . to plain Eng-
who doesn’t march with t>' .gheadedness, and
life do a dreary mill-hur*' -e times, will all his
who doles him out hi** - round for the Scrooge
pittance. . annually-decreasing weekJj
will, one of .ullivan, M.P., isnt careful, he
coyonetu these days, find himself lounging in a
Qff&fc]'* od carriage. The other night this Demo-
tb' gentleman, in his capacity as Chairman of
j N.S.W. Seamen’s Union, proposed and got it
carried that Lord Carington should be asked to
unfurl the Seamen’s new banner in the presence o
“ other prominent men ” —the plea being that ins
Lordship had always been a staunch friend or t c
working classes —and had not his family risen
from the ranks ! Even Lord Salisbury claims o
have ever been a friend of the working man, anc
did not Lord Salisbury’s family also rise from the
ranks ? For the matter of that, so did Bismarck s
—and Nero’s. If Lord Carington’s proud boast
that his grandfather, from behind whose ear
“Billy Pitt” took the pen, “used to work, oe
held to so endear His Excellency to the hearts ot
the people that he alone must of necessity, in i
opinion of the O’Sullivan, be selected to unwina
the sailors’ silken bauble, then all we can say i»
that the O’Sullivan is on the road to C.M.G.-smp.
Mr. Garrard, M.L.A. for Balmain
(N.S.W.), has given notice of a resolution affirm-
ing that Government workshops should res
their operation to repairs, and that colonA
tenderers should have a preference of lo P er c ’
on all contracts for machinery and:ironwork.
This would be a useful concession to the « oiKers
immediately concerned, and indirectly a bene
the community, but it is a pity that the unc
and inconsistent Garrard is in charge
motion. For weeks past he has been try g
keep himself safe with the Protectionists wmie
sitting and acting with the Freetraders, tl *•
apparently being that he is an Orang <
and a Protectionist very much after- M . -
had promised to take the lead in this matte ,
afterwards found, in a proposed trip toQu
an excuse for maintaining his co ,
cowardly neutrality. General Abbott is not ct
ally asleep on the battlefield—he isi mAnd •«« «
safe distance. When either Pa rt Y
beaten he will swoop down and claim his share
the plunder. . ,
“Colonel” Holborow, last week in the
N.S.W. Assembly, astonished members im
by moving the adjournment ;l [ ivc ly
making a long speech. He ", tl the
eloquent, a fact that is personal
circumstance that it was his own I


grievance which in his estimation required ven-
tilating. The pretext of the oration was the con-
ferring of the rank of Major upon Mr. Wright,
of alleged railway fraud fame, without examina-
tion, but the real trouble seemed to be that Major
Wright was supposed to have designs upon the
pleasant and lucrative billet now held by Volunteer
Colonel Holborow, M.P. The Parliamentary de-
liverances of this latter worthy would be interest-
ing reading for his constituents. The last that
we remember was evoked by the fact that he had
not been selected for service with the Soudan
banditti, and we also have a shadowy recollection
of another oration delivered some year 3 ago when
increase of pay to certain volunteer officers was
proposed. But Mr. Holborow managed to work
in another grievance to support his own. It was
based on the fact that two officers had been
“plucked” at examination; this was probably
owing, the orator remarked, to the fact that they
were teetotallers and non-smokers. Possibly. In
the same way the repeated election of Col. Hol-
borow is probably owing to the fact that there are
Orangemen in Argyle, and that some of his con-
stituents hunger for railway billets.
What an eloquent sermon upon the ad-
vantages of Land Nationalisation might be
preached from the text of a memorandum which
Duncan Gillies recently submitted to the Victorian
Assembly 1 In that memorandum the Commis-
sioners of Railways point out the difference be-
tween the estimated cost of certain new lines, and
the actual amount of “ sugar” disbursed over the
job. Set forth in round figures each mile of the
250 miles of line to be laid down will cost £6OOO
more than was originally represented on the esti-
mates. That the Government surveyors displayed
the proverbial official ignorance in, reckoning the
cost of construction, is likely enough. Earth-
works, bridges, and culverts are awful mysteries
which can only bo unravelled —at enormous ex-
pense—by railway contractors. \Ve pass that part
of the business. But with land sales in the Mel-
bourne suburbs every Saturday through the year,
one might reasonably expect even a Government
surveyor to fix the approximate land cost of 200
yards of line in the neighbourhood of Fitzroy.
Tho estimated value of this little tract of soil was
£l5OO. Tho price paid was £62,718! Possibly
that odd £58,000 represented a genuine “rise.”
Possibly it didn’t. Anyway the iniquitous folly of
any Government parting with the property of the
people, only to subsequently redeem it on such
runious terms is apparent to the bluest Tory.
£58,000 of unearned increment handed over to a
clique of land speculators, for the privilege of
constructing a furlong of railway 1
Mr. Speight, Chief Commissioner of Vic-
torian Railways, has need of an equable temper
and a tough hide. Since he came out from ‘ ‘ home ”
three years ago —to sweep away the accumulated
evils of a political patronage system, and to pro-
vide for a reduction in “accidents” —Mr. Speight
has been a dignified target for the shafts of dis-
comfited jobbery. For a while, that section of the
Victorian press which greases the rising genera-
tion with buttery gush about “native talent,”
treated the new arrival rather scurvily. His works
have proved him, and Mr. Speight has lived down
journalistic jealousy, but political foes continue to
fire away at him with the fury of despair. Such
statesmen of the past as Colonel Smith and the ir-
repressible “ Tommy Bent,” keep steadily on the
Commissioner’s track, and amuse themselves with
“ pot” shots. A few days ago, the Engine-drivers
and Firemen’s Association held its annual spread,
and Mr. Speight attended under the impression
1 hat lie was to assist at a convivial gathering. He
found himself caught in a trap. His loud-mouthed
critics had been invited —or had invited themselves
—to meet him and have another “go.” There was
wine flowing, and the tongue of the scoffer became
unloosed. Mr. Bent commiserated the engine-
drivers and firemen upon their loss of political
“rights.” Mr. Collard Smith deprecated the ap-
pointment of an English manager, and sighed for
the good old days of muddle, locomotive collisions,
and no profits—the good old days when every
greaser and stoker had his own representative in
the House and could rivet the attention of the
■country upon his “ case” if he happened to be sus-
pended for drunkenness. And worst of all, Mr.
•Gaunson had the bad taste to tell the men that
they ought to enjoy the option of appeal against
•.the Commissioners’ decisions, and went out of
shis way to make an insulting reference to the
salary of his fellow guest. Mr. Speight calmly
listened to all this, and then got upon his legs to
put the matter in its non-political aspect. He
reminded the worthy engine-drivers that the rail-
ways should be regarded as a business speculation
of the colony, which had nothing to do with poli-
tics. As Commissioner, he was managing for the
firm, had showed a good profit last year, and in-
tended to show a much better one this. It wasn’t
his fault that he had been born in England and
solicited to come out to Victoria. If people were
to continue throwing firebrands into the service it
would be impossible for the business to be carried
on in a business-like way. That was the gist of
Mr. Speight’s practical oration. Presuming the
engine-drivers are sensible, they will take it to
heart and forget that they enjoy the unenviable
distinction of being Civil servants. The fact that
their appointed head is kept outside of politics is
the best guarantee that they will be squarely dealt
with. The “ right of appeal,” which Mr. Gaunson
advocates, is clamoured for by the insubordinate,
aud not by the workers. If Mr. Speight can’t be
trusted to adjudicate upon the question of a
porter’s competency or sobriety, what the dickens
was the use of importing him? Victoria has
secured a really good man —the best available —in
Speight. That’s why some of them want to bind
him, hand and foot, with red tape.
The spirit of utter lawlessness which is
getiing a firm grip on the population of N.S.W.
h 8 is seen every day by the Felice court reports,
is simply appalling. Instead of progressing, the
Colony is retrograding fast. Murders, robberies,
und assaults (without taking into account Parlia-
mentary pugilism) have been particularly com-
mcn of late, but the action of a Deniliquin des-
perado named Simpson, caps all, and entirely
throws into the shade all other deeds of violence
yet recorded. This fiend, for he is not entitled to
be called by any other name, the other week, in
the full light of the noonday sun, entered the
kitchen garden of one Sloper, and looted the said
plantation of turnips to the value (as the prosecu-
tor swore in Court) of threepence. To the credit
of the local constabulary it must be said that they
lost no time in running down and capturing this
abandoned buccaneer of depraved appetite. He
was brought before the Bench, hut the local
paper a aguely tells U 3 that “the case was dis-
missed.” Dismissed 1 great heavens, and in the
name of outraged justice, we ask on what
grounds ? A fiend to loot a man of three pen’orth
o’ turnips, and when brought to the judgment
seat where he should have been sentenced lo con-
dign punishment—flogging, to wit—to be calmly
told that he is discharged 1 The whole thing is
monstrous. As we said before New South Wales
is retrograding.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Sir Charles Dilke is a godson of the Queen,
who is said to be horrified at the disclosures of his
wickedness.
Mr. E. B. Fairfax, of the S.M. Herald,
who was summoned from Europe owing to the
death of Mr. Hugh George, arrived last week by
the Carthage.
“The Pope is in a state of extreme
debility.” It is fortunate that L. L. Smith is just
now in Europe. Leo, young man, you don’t feel
well. “ Look into thy heart and write.”
Gen. Grant’s daughter, Nellie, is “ com-
pelled to leave her husband and come to her
mother on account of his neglect, abuse, drunken
carousals, and orgies with fast women.”
The Rev. Alexander Dowie lately told a
meeting of the elect that the day might coine
when he would run a paper of his own. “ Then
there’ll bo a ruction,” said Dowie. Likely enough.
The gaol gave Peter Campbell a temporary
judicial separation ; a locomotive has now given
him an eternal divorce. On Sunday last Peter
was killed, as has been many another stray sheep,
through getting in the way of a railway engine on
tlie St. Kilda (Melb.) line.'
At the Crawford-Dilke divorce trial it
transpired that though Mrs. Ashton Dilke knew
that Dilke had been the “lover” of both her
mother and her sister she nevertheless left her
card at his residence after his second marriage !
We wonder if there were worse things in old
Rome ?
It was lately cabled that Frederick Harri-
son, the Positivist, was about to visit Australia
for his health. Mr. Harrison now threatens
Truth with libel for having promulgated the
statement on which the “cable” was founded.
Harrison’s pet boast, wo remember reading in
Vanity Fair, is that he “has never been ill in
his life.” Such being the case, he does well to
avoid the hash-foundries of the Land of the
Kangaroo.
TRADEUS O’KANE,
Editor of the NORTHERN MINER.
l¥baai Thadets O’Kane, of the NoifTHERN
Miner, wishes t® properly insult a man he simply
charges him witk having written a leader in the
■opposition paper. Thadeus is pleased to consider
that the man who contributes to his despised rival
has reached the lowest conceivable depth of
degradation.
The will of Sir Alexander Stuart, formerly
'N.S.W. Premier, has been proved at £83,547. Of
this amount nearly four-fifths will be absorbed by
■encumbrances and liabilities, but several of the
assets may realise much more than their present
valuation. Lady Stuart is sole devisee, and Mr.
Kobison, of Queensland, sole executor.
In view of the .approaching execution of
Iteynolds, the Newtown (Sydney) murderer, who
compelled his wife to drink poison, our evening
contemporaries are devoting half-columns of space
to the N.S.W. hangman. This noseless horror
has now for his assistant a man who used to be
dog-catcher to the police, and who bears the some-
how singularly appropriate and suggestive name of
Snape.
It was rumoured in Melbourne that David
Henry—the astute financier who advances money
to the widow and ithe fatherless for a considera-
tion —had bolted to the Far West, -leaving a
£50,000 deficientjy behind him. That was bad.
Anon it was anoiounoed that David Henry, Esq.,
had merely gone to America on a. pleasure trip, or
a mission of chnjity, and would ,speedily return to
the scone of his, former triumphs. That was worse.
How David will flourish libel writs if ho ever does
come back!
Gladstone.,, it is alleged, was lately in his
grounds at Ilawarden endea vouring to walk off
worry, when., he noticed that he was closely fol-
lowed by t.wo loudly-dressed, bumptious-looking
individuals. Annoyed at the intrusion, he turned
to escape in an opposite diiec ion, but his perse-
cutors ware too quick, and catching up to him the
first fiend said, “ Excuse me, hut are you not Mr.
Gladstone?” The G.O.M. admitted he was, and
the fiend continued, “Ah ! wo thought so. We
are from Australia—we are ’representative Aus-
tralians.” “Ah! I thought .so,” replied the ex-
Premier, making tracks.
The “Escaped Nun,” now travelling in
N.S W., asserts that when the cholera broke out
in Jersey City in ’66 she was the only nun, escaped,
shut up, or otherwise who offered to tend the sick.
Next we expect to hear that she and a certain
male imitator of hers are the only two real
copper-tipped Christians existing, but that
the mail aforosaid, having lost the Church
funds bucking against a faro bank, has fallen
from grace, so that the Nun is on the sacred
wallaby—alone.
Louis Wein (once of Sydney, now of
North Queensland) sly-grog informer, nearly came
to a sudden end the other day. Li Hung was sell-
ing without a license, and Wein seized some 110
cases of grog in his stores. Looking up he spied
some gin-cases in a loft, and ordered John to
ascend, he himself following carelessly up the
ladder. John saw his chance, so seizing a case of
gin ho lifted it, and deliberately dashed it down
upon Mr. Wein’s caput, sending him down the
ladder a crushed and bleeding lump of mutilated
detective.
It was Ctesar who said that had he his choice
of a death he would choose that which would come
the swiftest. He got his wish. Frank Mitchell, a
Ballarat speculator, aged 59, seems to have thought
with Ceesar. Embarrassed through an outlay in
shaft-sinking, he went to the shaft’s mouth a few
days ago, lifted the cover, and plunged head-fore-
most down eight hundred feet. The bearers fixed
at 300 ft. down stopped him, crushing him to a
senseless mass, and tearing his head from the
body. The Press telegrams add he was killed, and
for the first time we are inclined to believe them.
It was extensively rumoured years ago
that some near or distant connections of Sir Alfred
Stephen, ex-Chief Justice and now Lieut.-Gover-
nor of N.S.W., wore reflected upon in the cele-
brated diary kGpt by and found in the possession
of the murderer Bertrand. Judging from the
fact that Sir Alfred—before whom, by the way,
that cold-blooded and infamous criminal was tried
—is now publicly opposing Bertrand’s release, we
are at liberty to conclude that the rumour referred
to was not founded on fact. It is utterly unlikely
that Sir Alfred would take it upon himself to
oppose the extension of the prerogative of mercy
in a case in which it could fairly be alleged that
his personal feelings were in the remotest degree
involved.
The Norfolk Island Pioneer has given up
the ghost under very painful circumstances. 1 here
is only one compositor on the island, and he is a
one-horse individual, who, having become in-
flated with the exuberance of his own verbosity,
gave himself insufferable airs, finally declining
to work on any terms. Public meetings are being
held to implore the autocratic jobber to start,
again, but he won’t, for it is joy to him to have I
the whole population on their knees, and as he
was everything from editor down to charwoman
and horse-power, he ranks as a bloated monopolist
and has no fear of competition.
The Queen’s dislike of Gladstone dates
from 1868. She was averse to the destruction of
the English Church in Ireland, and showed a dis-
| inclination to affix her signature to the Disestab-
| lishment Bill. In his eagerness, Mr. Gladstone
blurted out: “ But, madam, you must sign.” The
Queen flushed, and rejoined with marked indigna-
tion : “Sir, do you know who I am?” “Yes,
| madam, the Queen of England. . But does your
; Majesty know who I am ? I am the people of
England.” Whereupon the Queen summarily
brought the audience to a close, and in a few curt
words dismissed her Prime Minister, and bade him
learn better manners.
The £lOOO lately voted by the Victorian
Assembly to be invested on behalf of Marcus
| Clarke’s widow and family, will, it now seems,
j really be made available. Three years ago the
motion proposing this grant would have been
laughed down, in a House where perhaps not 10
members had read “ His Natural Life. The othei
day it was respectfully received and carried by a
narrow majority. Why this change ! Whence
j this new-born adoration of the memory of the
i dead genius ? It is all along of My Lord Rose-
,j } je ,.y advertising poor Marcus’s book and saying a
few kind words about his widow. Since the visit
i of the harmless little Earl, nearly three years
back, it has become the fashion in Melbourne to
! speak quite affectionately of Clarke and those he
left behind. That very “snebbery” which the
author satirised has now cheated for him hun-
dreds of admirers. Ere long we may hear of a
Marcus Clarke statue being unveiled in the pre-
sence of a concourse of tardy grovellers, and of a
Marcus Clarke Society, meeting once a month to
discuss works which passed almost unnoticed
until they had received the hall-mark of a real
live lord’s approval.
Poor Bartley Campbell, the author of “ My
Partner,” is dyingf*of brain-softening in an Ameri-
can asylum. This ought to be a warning to
George Darrell. By the way, a few friends looked
up Campbell, a little while back, and found him
playing billiards with another patient. It seem 3
the afflicted couple were scoring the game on an
eccentric system of their own. We can quite be-
lieve it. Only once in our life have we played a
“ hundred up ” with a lunatic, but we remember
the occasion only too well. The poor beggar never
gave us a show for 10 minutes. He kept missing
the object ball and scoring himself six every time.
At last* his cue slipped, and he brought oil' a losing
hazard. “ Your shot,” said the lunatic, “I’ve
broken down at an easy one.”
The Lord Mayor and Corporation of Dub-
lin went recently to open the new local swimming
baths. The Mayor is an eccentric poet, but in
spite of this the audience were horrified when he
turned up with only a towel round his waist, and
instead of making the usual speech jumped into
the water and swam across. Fancy “Wales”
when he goes to open a bridge taking a header
from the parapet and the lords spiritual and tem-
poral-—as in duty bound —capsizing themselves
after him. Worse still, fancy a naked bißhop fall-
ing upon a naked prince, and the Btove-in Heir
Apparent being afterwards fished out by a weep-
ing nation. The idea is too hideously awful to be
entertained, yet that seems to be what we are
coming to.
Some recent rows on the subject of mining
boundaries in Queensland suggest that the Govern-
ment surveyors in that colony are returning to
lirst principles. In old days, when Sandy Fyfe was
sub-commissioner on the Palmer, the miner who
wanted a claim laid off used to liquor him up in
the first place, and then when he got Sandy on the
ground and the first peg in he would trot ahead
with a bottle of Hennessy under his arm. Thero
was no trouble then about area, direction, or any-
thing else, for the sub-commissioner would mark
the boundaries anyhow so long as he kept close in
the rear of the bottle. Perhaps somebody carried
a bottle in front when Mount Morgan was laid
out, or, considering the value of the property, it
may be that a whole grog-shop led the way.
Bismarck, according to his English bio-
grapher, has been tbe hardest liver of his genera-
tion. He has always been a great eater, deep
drinker, and heavy smoker. In his earlier days
he was what the Germans call a “ chain smoker,”
whose morning and night are connected by a cable
of cigars, each link of which is lighted'dt the stump
of its predecessor. In his youth a mixture of
champagne and porter was his favourite beverage,
and to this day it is uncertain whether he drinks
more wine or more beer, for, as he recently de-
clared, to settle a wager on the subject, he drinks
both daily and with equal fondness. But his
tastes are catholic in drinking, and of spirits he
has a high opinion, laying down once with unction
the principle, “ I fed wine for children, champagne
for men, but schnapps for generals.
At a recent grand dinner party the Ger-
man Emperor was in the highest spirits, and
played the gallant to the Empress and other
notable ladies Avho were present, kissing their
hands frequently and with much fervour. These
attentions, which form one of the Emperor’s pecu-
liarities, the most jealous husbands do not resent,
for the flirtations of a nonagenarian are not
dangerous, but serve to amuse him and hurt no-
body. The late meeting of the German and Aus-
trian Emperors resolved itself into a nauseating
slobbering match between the two old men. The
Emperor William appears to have exceeded
Francis Joseph in fervency and demonstrativeness,
for whereas the latter merely kissed his brother
monarch several times with great heartiness, the
latter added weeping to the osculatory exercise,
and leaked freely down the back seams of the
Austrian Emperor’s coat.
Charlie Beal, sometime Australian Eleven
secretary, tells some queer stories of his English
experiences. At Chichester, just before the team
left England, an old resident said : “Ah ! you
gentlemen are lucay in being able to travel. One
time, 62 years ago, I was asked to go to Man-
chester, but I didn’t go, and I’ve lost my chance
now. ” The distance is about four hours by rail,
but the English turnip-sprouter of the old school
woul d make his will, and bid a solemn farewell
to his weeping friends before making such a
journey, and then the thoughts of the old home
and the church, and the cow, and the dear
familiar faces would overcome him, and he would
ibid ambition begone and turn back to lay his
bones amongvkhese of his ancestors. Another old
resident asked Charles to take a parcel to Glenelg
(S. A.) for him. Beal replied that hie should ask
Giffon, who lived thereabouts, but he replied :
“Oh ! I don’t know Giffen. You had better take
it, aud you can walk across with it some Sunday
morning.” But even this story is beaten by that
of a parson at Rockhampton (Q.), who received a
suggestion from his Presbyterian friends at home
that he should ride to Brisbane and hold an after-
noon service there occasionally, and when he
as,ked these porridge-fed clerics if they expected
him tp gallop 100 miles on tbe Sabbath Day they
set his (question down as savouring of an unholy
lark.
Mr. Joe ißosistp (that distinguished Vic-
torian, who, * “ spying he would ne’qr consent,
consented” to aqcept a C.M.G.), lives in hopes of
working up toknighthood before the end of the
year. The true story of Joe’s original refusal to
attend the summons of Garter King at Arms
(useful creature!) and the subsequent pressure
put upon him by Sir Philip Cunliffe Owen and
others is very instructive. Joe was whispered
that “ Wales” and the Queen would be “grieved”
if he didn’t take his “honour” along with the
rest of them. Finally, Sir Philip threw out hints
that if Joseph would rest contented with C.M.G.,
in the meantime, then the coveted K. might be
tacked on shortly. That the voice of ihe tempter
prevailed is now a matter of history. But why
was all this trouble taken to overcome the feigned
reluctance of such a very mediocre mediocrity as Mr.
Bosisto? Because “Wales” and Co.Jeared that
an open assertion of colonial independence (real
or sham, it mattered not) might exereise a dan-
gerous influence on the rising generation. They
reflected that the fact of a Victorian chemist
declining to let the Queen slip a ribbon round his
neck would have a bad moral effect. The Aus-
tralians hitherto had grovelled before royalty of
any sort or description with a vigour that was
most encouraging to the Tory promoters of “Im-
perial Federation.” Could they afford to have the
game interrupted by a sulky Bosisto ? No. If
Joe hadn’t graciously accepted his greamess the
Queen would have C.M.G.’d him while under the
influence of chloroform.


Cant versus Muscle.—The Race for Popularity.
“The excitement on the Thames during the recent aquatic contests was not because the people had regard for Beach or Gaudaur, or Ross, or the countries they represented. The vast crowds
had risked their money upon the events, and all they cared for was to win. And as in England so in Australia,”—Dr. Jefferis ’ Sporting Sermon.
PASTOR JEFFERIS (sol.): “ITS DARNED HARD WORK THESE TIMES FOR A PROFESSIONAL SPOUTER TO KEEP PACE WITH A PROFESSIONAL SCULLER


SPILT MILK.
N.S.W. “NEVER MIND, PATRICK, MY LITTLE DEAR, YOU’LL GET YOUR BARONETCY NEXT YEAR, ALL THE SAME. A JUBILEE BARONETCY WILL BE JUST AS
GOOD, AS A CENTENARY BARONETCY—WON’T IT NOW ? ”


Society
What a charming trait in the female
character is benevolence! Some of our fair
women carry their thoughtfulness so far that they
strive to economise the funds and time of strug-
gling artists and medical students by offering
them gratuitous “Life Studies.” One lady at the
Sydney Royal last week was so peculiarly amiable
in this respect, that a medical enthusiast sitting
behind htr might easily have worked up, his
osteology during the entr'actes. As we reckoned
up the visible vertebrae and studied the shoulder-
blades under the expanse of white skin we won-
dered whether we were harking back to barbar-
ism, or whether extremes meet, and the ultra-
refinement of civilisation touches primeval sim-
plicity ?
* * *
This is told at the expense of one of the
“ Representative Australians ” at present making
shows of themselves in England. The day after
the arrival of this self-made Croesus in London he
called at a well-known banker’s to arrange about
opening an account. The genial old banker in-
vited him into his private room and the first
question he asked was, “ How are the Antipodes ?”
The representative was staggered. He had a
faint recollection of having heard “Antipodes”
before, but what it was, or what it meant, he
couldn’t for the wealth of the Indies tell. There was
only one thing he could do and that was to chance
an answer: “Oh,” he answered, stroking his
beard with his hand as if quite at home, “I only
arrived yesterday and haven’t had time to see
them yet. I’m going to look 'em, up to-morrow !”
*' *• *
Sir Arthur Palmer, Lieutenant-Governor
of Queensland, visited Cooktown the other day.
He refused to be banqueted, but accepted
Mayor Davis’ invitation to a “ glass of champagne.”
The Mayor invited some 40 people to meet his
Excellency, who, in returning thanks, told them
that he could not see how he or they could possi-
bly benefit from thus meeting, and, having swal-
lowed his wine, he incontinently left without even
proposing little Davis’ health. But the fun came
in when at the next Council meeting Alderman
Galvin, an Italian, who keeps a pub., objected to
the Council paying the bill to the tune of £32 for
the “ shamp.” He, as a member of the reception
committee (please put the accent on the ulti-
mate), had agreed to the hire of ho3t Balser’s trap
and the purchase of two bottles of champagne, and
Sir A. H. Palmer was to be driven round the
town and “ liquored up ” in the trap, but he did
not call £32 a glass of wine, and thought the
Mayor should pay for the lot. The councillors
determined to pay £2O, which, however, the
caterer refuses to take, and legal proceedings will
therefore shortly follow.
* * *
The respondent in a certain very quietly-
disposed-of Sydney divorce case (heard in camera
“to oblige a friend,” and not reported in the
newspapers to any appreciable extent) has married
her “gay Lothario” in England.
* * *
Which reminds one that the co-respondent
in a rather celebrated recent N.Z. divorce case
(he is related to Sir Charles Dilke) was, the other
day, about to make atonement to the lady he had
led astray, by marrying her. Everything had
been arranged for the ceremony in the pretty
little church at Merrivale, Christchurch’s most
aristocratic suburb. The amiable and liberal-
minded parson had been interviewed, and in due
time the party arrived at the church —only to find
that the bishop had interdicted all clergymen of
the diocese from extending religious marital rites
to the pair of wanderers from the paths of moral
rectitude. However, the “dissenting” parson
across the way was ready to oblige, and smilingly
pocketed the bridegroom’s “ fiver.”
* * *
It is gratifying to the truly pious man
when he sees the heathen “left” and the opium-
chewing sinner wiped out, and Hi Yah, of Cook-
town (Q.), has been wiped out. A suburban belle
in that town was anxious to attend the races, but
neither she nor her lover could raise the needful
funds, so she “lookednice” at a cross-eyed yellow
man of Belial who dug in her father's garden, and
that deluded hybrid promptly undertook to find a
new dress, a hat, and a steed, provided he were
allowed to escort his charmer in person. He kept
his share of the bargain and turned up in gor-
geous attire, but to his horror his place was
usurped by a horse-load of human sin in the shape
of a white man who told him to “git.” Then Hi
Yah knelt down on the road and cursed his enemy
by every degraded image in the Central Flowery
Land, and he now sues the girl for £3 15s. “ goods
supplied,” but his tale is received with laughter
and derision and he will trust a Queensland maid
never again.
* * *
A queer incident presented itself “ on the
block,” in Hunter-street, Sydney, the other day.
A gentleman of the masher type was walking
along—cane in hand, creaseless nether coverings,
glossy hat, primrose in buttonhole, eyeing our
world superciliously through his eye-glass. Sud-
denly this gallant gentleman was confronted by a
woman of the lowest type—a woman whose shabby
print-frock constituted seemingly her sole article
of dress. Her face was cadaverous and thin—her
hair like oakum —the whole toilette surmounted
by a battered straw hat. Such a woman as this
appearing on Sydney’s choicest promenade in the
blazing light of 4.30 p.m. could not fail to attract
attention. Guess the sensation, then, when this
creature stopped our gallant friend and held him
in conversation for about 15 minutes, while he
stood bolt upright afraid of what this lady might
shriek after him if he left her before she had quite
finished —and miserably, intensely conscious of the
subdued laughter around him! The incident
was laughable, but the dark side was rather too
prominent.
* * *
One untitled “representative Australian ”
now in England (he is a “ perfect daisy ” at grovel-
ling) is prancing round with cards labelled : “ The
Honorable , and Miss .”
* * *
Potts Point and Toorak, now that Mr.
Dailey—long may he wave ! —is a Privy Council-
or, will be obliged to us for this information. The
‘ Honorable ” disappears in conversation alto-
gather, and is never put on a visiting-card. Its
principal use is in addressing a letter or in print.
When Macaulay was made a Privy Councillor he
seems to have been ignorant of the etiquette, for
he put “ Right Honorable ” on his card, and was for
nine days the laughing-stock of London. It is
well known that he dated a letter to his constitu-
ents from “Windsor Castle,” because he happened
for a day to be the guest of the Queen.
* * *
In the matter of ability to say gracefully
the thing that is not, few among the elect can
approach the young lady who “did” Admiral
Tryon s “At Home” last week for the Sydney
Echo. After calling “ lovely woman ”“ a charm-
ing accessory,” she propounds the conundrum :
“ No greater success could bo attained or desired
by the most anxious host, and Admiral Tryon may
be warmly congratulated upon chancing upon the
first, having in himself and his naval coadiutors the
genial courtesy which goes to make the third,
while the height of Sydney’s season provided the
last.” How does that strike you ? Left to our
own devices wo feel wholly unable to do full jus-
tice to the scene. The guests numbered fully 500,
and were gathered in a spirit of strict impar-
tiality. The Admiral has a big heart, and does
not confine his hospitality to the “ first families ”
only. His mode of entertaining his guests is ex-
tensive, embracing Aunt Sally (she’s dead) to
dancing in the house. But to again quote the
gifted one, “ It was all too fresh out of doors to
make dancing irresistible, people preferred wan-
dering through the shady walks or watching the
changing loveliness of the beautiful harbour.”
’I hat’s all good. Lord and Lady Carington were
present, accompanied by the Hon. Baring and Mr.
Wallington. Lady Carington wore black moire
silk, plain and elegant as usual. This “ At Home ”
is, we believe, the last of the season, and before
ringing down the curtain let us congratulate the
Admiral on hi 3 social success. His hospitality has
been very extensive, no previous Admiral having
ever before attempted entertaining on so large a
scale.
“NO FEAR!"
HER GRACIOUS, &e, : “THEN YOU WON’T GO TO AUSTRALIA, ALBERT EDWARD?”
HE: “ WHY SHOULD IGO TO AUSTRALIA, MOTHER? NOTHING HAS COME OUT
ABOUT ME LATELY. IF THEY MUST HAVE SOMEBODY TO GROVEL TO,
LET US SEND DILKE!”
At Auckland (N.Z.) there is now only one
masher left. The other one insisted on seeing a
lady home a week ago, and being kindly invited
inside found himself in the presence of a family
party. Then his hat and cane were thrown out-
side and he was flogged with a stout bamboo
until he devoutly wished he had been carting
road-metal, or following any other humble
avocation rather than mashing on that particular
evening. Finally he was also thrown out on his
little pink ear.
* * *
Among the shows of Sydney is one which
may often be seen gratis at Redfern station.
About 9 a.m., when the traffic is at its busiest,
“Black Maria” drives up and discharges its
cargo of wretched-looking, leg-ironed men or
miserable, draggled women, bound presumably
for country prisons, thus compelling the pas-
sengers coming in from the suburbs, whether male
or female, to encounter not only them, but the
gaping crowd which gathers to watch their move-
ments. For the sake of common humanity—or of
lady travellers, at all events —prisoners might be
despatched at some other hour, or from some
other spot than the ordinary platform.
* * *
The colonial dancing female has received a
serious check in Wellington (N.Z.) A young wife
there went to a hop, while her husband sat at
home with his head against the wall and held the
baby. After somfe hours, however, being unable
to soothe the little yeller, he went to the ball and
asked his fond partner to return, whereupon she
told him to go to Greece and leave her to her en-
joyment. Half-an-hour afterwards the father
solemnly wheeled a perambulator across the hall
and ran his squalling brat right into the quadrille
where his wife was disporting herself. Then he
yelled out, “ Mary, here’s the baby ; he’s hungry,”
and walked out. The lady has not been to a dance
since.
* * *
In Melbourne, the raising of cash to pro-
vide a testimonial to H.R.H. the Prince of Wales
is still tearing ahead like a frightened snail.
Fathers of families and others are warned not to
send in more than two guineas, as the individual
contrib. is restricted to that sum, for fear the
treasurer might get so much money that it would
turn his brain. The intention is to present Albert
Edward with a service of plate. If the fund keeps
up its present rate of increase, the trustees expect
to be in a position to forward a coffin-plate by the
time H.R.H. “shuffles off.”
* * *
J ust as the Union Club ball is supposed to
shut down the lid on all Sydney “sassiety” doings,
so the Steeplechase day winds up the Randwick
racing carnival, and this year it wound it up well.
There was a big crowd, and round each favourite
a little knot of men and women were gathered.
The custom of ladies walking among the thorough-
breds is highly dangerous ; we saw a colt lash out
and put his foot through a lady’s sunshade and
then take it out again. Moral—the saddling-pad-
doclc is not the place for womankind. On the lawn
the scene “was bright and animated,” though
some of the dresses worn were enough to frighten
one. Among those who dress badly, the women
whose years revolve about the uncertain “forties”
are strikingly conspicuous. They never seem to
hit off the style that best suits their age, Hoping
everyone will think them five and twenty, yet
mortally fearing they will be guessed at least
fifty, they find themselves in a position of em-
barrassment, with the result that they look
fifty about the face and fifteen about the ancles.
On the other hand, we do not remember ever
having seen more becoming gowns, or more pretty
girls. Melbourne had sent us a very fine contri-
bution, in fact, so fine that our Sydney girls saw
nothing in them to admire. Pale blue and white
were the ruling colours of the costumes, while
hats and bonnets were even more fetching than
usual. Brides were rather plentiful, in fact the
bride business was a little overdone ; still there
must be brides whether other girls (who are not)
like it or the reverse. The men turned out look-
ing better than usual, the English dudes being
more quietly clad than is their wont. That check
suit from Government House has, we hear, been
returned to Europe, Sydney not being advanced
sufficiently for the pattern. Yellow top boots,
and two “ foot” spurs, were absent, and, in fact,
there was an unusual air of respectability about
the imported mashers. Carriages, both ancestral
and hired, were in great request, and it was
charming to wander among the former and see the
coats-of-arms emblazoned on their panels. It took
one back to the history of our country when we
saw the griffins and lions rampant, with a
crown above them and a motto underneath
that told the virtues of the owners. The
hired “growlers” had just the same kind
of armorial bearings, which was odd, and had
just as good a claim to them, which wasn’t. No
doubt it is impossible to cater for so great a
crowd, but still we felt only partly happy when we
got our share of luncheon and found it to be a
venerable drum-stick. That made us feel bad,
but when we planked ss. and the waiter held out
his hand for a tip, we gave it —with our lightning
“left.” That waiter was taken to hospital in
H.E.’s “carriage.” Lady Ca-ington wore an
elegant costume of cream merveilleux satin, a
charming bonnet and parasol to match; Mrs.
Terry, a very becoming derss of striped cream
silk with pretty French bonnet; Mrs. C. Hogg, a
lovely gown of cream surah with graceful dra-
peries of spotted gauze and lace, tight-fitting
jacket of lace and white brads, small bonnet en
suite; Mrs. Arthur Blackwood. (Melbourne), a
pretty soft-white China silk dress with flounce of
fine cream lace and long panel of a dark-coloured
silk, white bonnet and parasol to match ; a young
lady in w r hite, large hat, and eyes to match, looked
absolutely enthralling.
* * *
“The Mikado,” at Sydney Royal, on
Steeplechase night, drew a most uncomfortable
crush, who sat out the piece in a very heated
atmosphere. The latter contingency a well-
known society woman, fat and forty, had fully
expected, judging from the manner in which she
stood out of her clothes. “ Isn’t she funny ? ” ex
claimed a terrible enfant at her elbow—“ she’s
just like a half-peeled banana.”
* * *
The Mayoress of Melbourne’s last after-
noon reception was so well managed that all the
1500 callers were enabled to shake her hand. What
joy for ’em !
* * *
No wonder SpofForth’s “ average ” lias
fallen off. He has been in the throes of love all
this trip, and got married last week. We suppose
he will henceforth walk in the ways of Murdoch,
and devote all his spare time to domestic happi-
ness :
Farewell, dear Spoff, your reign is “over
No more excited crowds will shout at you ;
Give up the game and live in clover—
For marriage will take the “ demon ” out of you.
Bonnor, it is cabled, was best man. The lady
whom Spoff has captured, is said to be handsome,
witty, and tolerably well-gilt. Further, it is said
that the case was one of love at first sight. Which
is very likely true. It is hard to believe that any
pretty girl could have deliberately fallen in love
with Spoff
* *
t Fully 900 persons were present at the St.
Vincent’s Hospital ball held in Sydney Exhibition
Building on the 22nd September. A large share
of the patronago which this event annually
receives may perhaps be ascribed to the fact that
the hospital relies solely upon the generosity of the
general public for its maintenance, no State aid
being invoked. The building was lighted by
electricity, the engine being under the direction
of Mr. E. C. Cracknell who gave every satisfac-
tion. Vice-royalty assisted the show, and
ample decorations hid, or at least relieved the
bareness of the building. Dancing concluded
somewhere about daybreak.
* * *
On Tuesday, the 21st inst., H. E. and
Lady Carington entertained some 250 guests at a
musical evening, Government House. The music
was given in the ball-room, the performers being
placed on a platform running across one end of
the room. The company consisted of Admiral
Tryon, Captain Lake, the officers of H.I.M.S.
Albatross, Sir William and Lady Manning, Mr.
and Mrs. Joseph, Mr. and Mrs. Purves, Hon. W.
H. Suttor, Mr. Kellermann, Dr. Marano, Mr. and
Mrs. Samuel, and many others. The programme
consisted of 10 numbers. Mrs. Merewether con-
tributed a polonaise, Mrs. Stoddart sang Gounod’s
“ Noel,” the organ was played by the Hon. John
Baring ; Mrs. Forbes Angus sang charmingly. The
dresses were above the mark. We particularly
noticed several of them, but as envy is sufficiently
rampant we will refrain.
* * *
We regret to hear of the death of Mrs.
Mary Woolley, widow of thelate Professor Woolley,
at one time Principal of Sydney University, who
was drowned in the London. The deceased lady was
universally beloved, and will be greatly missed.
* * *
It is said that since the marriage of the
happy Quong Tart, the visits of his quondam lady
customers have become comparatively angelic, or
few and far between. This doesn’t surprise us in
the least. We have always declared the dear girls
used to go not for their tea but their nice little
Tart. And now he is married, Yum Yum !
* * *
Thus says the Sunday Times :— “The boys
of the nautical school-ship, Vernon, who are being
trained by Captain Neitenstein to lead good lives,
were yesterday released from the ordinary rules,
and made the guests of a number of ladies.” Now
what in thunder does all this mean ?
* * *
Madame Suvnmerhayes must have had up-
hill work to get through her concert, which came
off on the 23rd inst., as the audience was scanty
and sleepy. Nothing is harder than to Wake a
sleepy audience or congregation. A parson tried
to do so lately by reading some of his own verse to
his sheep. He succeeded ; they rose and departed
with precipitation.
* * *
Armidale (N.S.W.) society assembled on
the 17th Sept., at Moorowa, the residence of the
Hon. John Richardson, M.L.C., and danced the
night through with energy attainable only in the
country. A long programme of dances was dis-
cussed under the inspiration of music worthy of
the occasion and the entertainers. The capabili-
ties of Moorowa for the enjoyment of dancing are
great, and the enjoyment on this occasion was in
direct ratio to the accessories.
THE WHISPERING CALLERY
3Mrs. Moriarty gives a garden-party to-day at North Short?
You can always tell a bachelor by the way he doesn’t,
handle a baby.
Captain Traill, A.D.C. to Governor Loch, Vic., is on a*
visit to Sydney.
Mrs. Houston Hall, of Potts Point, has issued invitations
for a dance for October 15.
On the 22nd Sep. the Randwick Lawn Tennis Club gave a
concert at the Randwick Town Hall. The audience was large
and enthusiastic.
Singleton is to have a military tournament on the 9th
November. There is expected to be a large crowd, as Single-
ton is a very military centre !
Last of Ashfield socials came off on the 23rd Sep. The
room looked very beautiful, and the ladies turned out
bravely. Two sisters carried off the honours.
The Mercantile Quadrille Assembly of Orange crowned
their winter series of dances by a ball on the 25th Sept. The
ladies give the Mercantilers a return ball on the 7th Oct.
The Sydney saddlers gave a picnic on Monday, the 20tb
Clont irf. Fully 1100 persons attended. “Protec-
tion ” was fully discussed, the women voting for it “to a
m m.”
Messrs. Needs’ usual fortnightly assembly took place at
their rooms Wednesday evening 22nd ult. Owing to the St.
Vincent’s ball being on the same night, the attendance was
very limited.
A gentleman’s li rn cuff, directed to the owner and
stamped with a penny stamp, recently went through the
post-office. It bore this message: “ Please eall and pay your
washing-bill. Your laundress.”
The CampbelltOwn volunteer ball, on the 17th Sep,, was
generally est,.'.'ined and uumitigated success. The local
Napoleons attended in unifoim—a fact which would easily
account for a lot of the ecstacy attained.
Overheard in a tram-car : “I tried to kiss my wife at the
front door to-night as I was leaving home, and, do you


liow, she wouldn’t let me. She said
e didn’t want the neighbours to be
king her for the servant.”
The second of the Carington Pri-
ate Picnics was held on Saturday, 25th
It., at Correy's Gardens, Cabarita
Vint. The company numbered over
00, and surroundings, adventitious
,nd designed, contributed to a pleasant
athering
The N.S.W. Horticultural Society
lives its spring show on 20th and 21st.
it will be held in the Governor's domain,
vith his permission. This is certainly a
nove in the right direction, as it is ab-
surd dragging people out to Kedfern
in all occasions.
The bachelors and other gentlemen
of Penrith (N.S.W.), gave a very en-
joyable dance on Tuesday, 21st ult
Local ladies were attractive as usual,
and a pretty little dancer from Wool
lahra, in pale blue surah silk, lost
nothing by comparison. Dancing till
3.30 a.ill.
On Wednesday, 22nd Sep., the local
dramatic club gave a concert and
dramatic entertainment at the lown
Hall, East St. Leonards. The perform-
ance was in aid of the Town tlall
clock ! The attendance was limited,
the object not being thought a highly -
deserving one.
In view of the great demand for
popular songs with unhealthy subjects,
such as “ Birdie’s Dying,” “ I Must Seek
the Golden Shore," &c., it is suggested
that some poet get up a volume of the
various stages of illness suitable for
musical use, and call it “Poems of
General Debility.”
“Buffalo’s new crematory,” says a
Yankee print, “is in the charge of a
young Englishman, who acts as
cicerone. Theparty of inspection one
day comprised two ladies, who ex-
pressed themselves as gratified by what
they had seen until they reached a point
where the obliging, if somewhat loqua-
cious, guide exclaimed: ’’Ere, maam,
is where we turn the bodies into hash
and then the hash is collected and
put into a hum.’ ’’
Twelve (midnight) struck, and yet the ™ h k ° h |£
just returned to town after an ahse.no ’ ..
parted not. “ MUlie,” cried the M.P. th hcurd of the
stairs. “Yes, papa,” came the sdvery voice of hw c»iW,
a^ ht we “an the
accumulated business. We will adjourn,
The helpless father, unable to answer the argument,
turned to his bed in tears.
In the first generation a man reckons only !
his father and mother. In the second gencrat on the two
are changed into four, since a man has two S™” 1 1
grandmothers. Kach of these four had parents, ‘ tg _
the third generation there are found to be eight ancestors
that is, eight grand-grandparents. In tl?e fourth Keneratmm
the number of ancestors is 16; ,32 m the sixtn
M- in the 7th 128; in the tenth, 1024, in the twenuewi,
1^048,576; in the thirtieth, 1,073,741,834 Th« may prove ad
the world’s akin—that we are all related to balmon Wilson
and Alfred the Great.
swktb* 4 ¥*sife
triage with B. M. She is a dear girl, and lam sure you win
be as happy as you deserve, Have you
presented with the following:- Bear .pA 1 ,,? x. fa ?
iheard that Lord A. is going to marry that little minx, a. ft . t
1 wish him joy of her!’ Tableau.
THIS WICKED
WORLD
Moffat and Co., of Mount Albion (N'.Q.)
silver-field, say they have £50,000 of ore at grass
and £500,000 worth in sight Magistrate
Beetham, of N.Z., in fining a citizen who fired a
gun at a cat contrary to city bylaws, said the
firing of the gun was an offence, but the man who
killed a cat was a public benefactor, and he would
only fine him 2s. and pay it himself “The
JLoyal Blossom Friendship ” is the latest lodge of
•Oddfellows, and the Loyal Blossoms are rather
proud of their title. It would not have sounded
:so nice if they had called themselves the
'“Treacherous Turnips.” Letter received by a
ISydney merchant from a country storekeeper:
Dear Sir, —Excuse me if, owing to the great
Iheat, I write to you in shirt-sleeves. lam want-
ing a piece of glazed pink lining ; just have lost
tthe sale of two yards. Please send one quickly.
Y ours faithfully, M. R- P.S.— My wife just tells
ime that there is a whole piece uncut in the shop,
so you will please cancel the above order. M. R.
The writer was not an Irishman A N.Z.
girl recently married against her father’s wish,
and the hob-nailed parent thereupon went out
with a vicious grin upon his jaw and dosed his
son-in-law’s horses with phosphorus, thereby
causing them to hop this colonial twig in groat
agony. The old man is now doing 12 months.
* * *
“The Queen,” we read, “has not yet
done remonstrating with the Prince of W ales
with regard to his polite attentions to several
American ladies during the past season. In
Sweden the male flunkeys who wait at the rojal
table wear tunic, petticoat, and divided skirt, and
a head-dress of three ostrich feathers, each a yard
Jong From English paper:—“Next Tuesday
„th* Court takes up its bed and departs from the
'isle aJ Wight. (Mem. ’This is literally the case
" with to the Sovereign’s pillow, bolsters,
and myViftyesses. They travel with her.) ......
Louis of was one of the umpires at the
recent gyppi British naval operations ! A London
paper remarks that his proper place would be
umpire at a and that his appointment
by the Queen over the heads of men well acquainted
with the work, is an insult to the nation Sir
Henry Thomas, of London, gave a dinner to
Wendell Holmes, and asked him to choose
jf.ijfs other guests. Dr. Holmes named Du Maurier,
Ahrra Tadema, Browning, John Morley, and Glad-
stone .. ..One reason why so few men are heroes
to their valets is because so few men have valets.
Labouchere says, in Truth, that the eldest
daughter of the Prince of Wales is commonly
spoken of as “the worst-dressed girl in London.’
Queen "Victoria once being at an important
, ceremony in a North of England city, a paper was
brought to her for her signature. Of course she
it as usual, “Victoria, R. et I.” Then
.her favourite daughter’s signature was desired
MR QUONG TART.
A portrait of much interest to many Australians is that of
Mrs. Quong Tart of Huntingtowers Waverky, the bride of a
very well-known Sydney citizen. The lady has but recently
attained her majority, and those persons to whom she is best
known will be the most sincere and constant in congratulating Mr.
Tart upon his marriage.
and was duly written, “ Beatrice.” Finally the
wife of the Mayor was called to sign the paper,
and, not to be outdone by any mere royalties, she
unhesitatingly wrote “Mary.” Tennyson has
ready several new poems, the most notable of
which is a continuance of “ Locksley Hall,” the
hero reappearing a broken-down man of 80, with
modified views of life and liberty. The widow
of General Grant has already received £125,000
from the profits of the book her husband so
heroically wrote, while in the agonies of cancer,
in order that she might be provided for Sir
Wilfrid Lawson summed up the situation with
humorous nicety when he said the Tories and
Unionists would get on very well together so long
as they avoided politics and religion Let us,
says an American writer, not commend Mrs.
Gladstone for darning her husband’s stockings
until we learn whether Mr. Gladstone is afflicted
with corns.
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard ?
RHEUMATISM AND DROPSY
Have been considered as incurable, but Dr. Bells (Kidney
and Liver) Bitters was never known to fail in giving im-
mediate relief and permanent cure of both these maladies.
Marie Brizard? Who is Marie Brizard?
BIDDELL BROTHERS,
COITFECTIONERS,
505, 507, 507 i GEORGIE STREET,
SCST Every article in the trade. Caterers supplied
with New Goods.
Acme Lozenges, most superior
Pachouli and Cachou Comfits, in 3d. boxes
Voice Jujubes
Finest Jam Sugar, in h and lib tins
Sherbet and New Motto Kisses
Note. —Biddcll’s London Mixtures are all of
regular quality.
C. H. SMITH & SON,
Manufacturers and Importers
OK
HATS and CAPS,
302 GEORGE STREET,
3 Doors South of Hunter-street.
2 (2tltuie/ r s
r .vi
taAen^ft
on
J
ith** 78 *
RO>t.Wiluam S
D. MITCHELL & CO.,
WHOLESALE GROCERS,
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS, AND
GENERAL IMPORTERS,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WE issue a price list on the first of every
month, which is forwarded gratis to store-
keepers throughout the colony, and as we import
everything direct, we are enabled to give lowest
quotations. It will he found a useful guide for
people about to start in business, as stocks can be
made up from £5O and upwards. Our New Season
Teas, ex Killamey, can he strongly recommended
for strength and flavour, more especially especially
the PARAGON MIXTURE, in packets, already
so favourably known, and which is protected
'rom fraud by registration.
0* RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
iad is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
BR, RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Robert butcher & co.
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Town Hall, Sydney.
S3T Country Orders receive prompt attention. IBS
JJRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY :
SPRING and C’CONNELL STREETS.
i ■
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL," COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
ARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
Cmatch.
s*
Sideboards of modem
designs and various dimen-
sions, in OAK, MAHOGAN Y,
WALNUT, ASH, and CEDAR.
A large selection, at all
prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably Up-
holstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
gsdf
£35
PIANOFORTE,
1 guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brilliant
tone, in handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
I Ml ORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plusb, &c. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell and
Spring Streets.
gsd
W' ALN U T FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo
dious, and perfectly -planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell and Spring
Streets.
CHIFFONIER WHATNOTS, effective designs.
Large choice. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
■ ■
rawing room cabi-
nets, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
DRAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s. 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
fg
W.ALNUT REVOLVING
‘BOOKSTANDS, 2,3, and 4-
tier —a desideratum for the Barris
ter’s Chamber, Judicial Bench
Library, Drawing-room, or even the
Bedroom. Very handy—especially
so for the Invalid Reader.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order m
any material.
sdfg
Re yOLV I NG SHOW
STANDS,
for the advantageous display of
Woollens,
Grocers’ Samples, or
Fancy Goods.
Everything is well exhibited,
and any single article can be
conveniently handled without
disturbing another.
- Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair and couch, for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
R~ OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
sdf
Bedsteads, aii sizes,
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and;
LAMB,
Importers,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
gsd
SPRING MATTRASSES
Woven Wire, beat
make; also, Spiral Springs
Price, from 14s. each.
BRADLEY, NEWTON and LAMB.
HEAP FURNITURE.— Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 3Qs.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3105.; Clothes Ho*SBS. from 10s. 6d.;
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 30s.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
BEDDING! BEDDING! BEDDING!
The same old saying— You Can’t Beat Lawler s.
THERE YOU CAN GET a Hair Mattress, and
no better BOX SPRING MATTRESS was
ever made than those made by LAWLER.
It is literally a mass of spiral springs, heavily
webbed, and thoroughly upholstered in best curled
'''note.— No wiffc, mattress ever made affords
such refreshing rest or can be depended upon as
can the Box Spring Mattress turned out at
608 GEORGE STREK
KAPOK, soft as Eider Down, at “LAWLER S.’
None but the celebrated “ Samarang ’’-grown
Java Kapox stocked. , „
No second quality of Kapox at Lawler s.
Flock and Fibre Mattresses, ready for daily
delivery, at Lawler's.
Wire Mattresses, all sizes, by all makers.
Palliasses, from best long-cut straw three
qualities.
Lasers will save money, and, in the end,
y, by buying at
' iER’S 608 George-street, Sydney.
Guinness’ Extra Stout.
FIRST
QUALITY.
r »«o
BASS’ PALE ALE.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES :
W. BALCHIN, JOHNSTON & CO.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-street., Sydney.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION,
LONDON,
By Special Appointment.
3y£E33XCX2TE
Prepared from Pure Drugs and chemicals by
qualified Chemists in the most scientific manner
to ensure the best action,
FOR NOTHING
is more essential to enable doctors to make quick
cures, therefore we only employ qualified assist-
ants with diplomas in our establishments, and
supply everything of the best quality at
the lowest prices.
T. JONES & CO.,
DISPENSING CHEMISTS.
53 Market-st between Pitt and George-strects,
Branch Houses -.—Crown-street Tram Terminus,
Surry Hills : and Suva, Fiji
G. B. MODINI, Gunmaker,
Beos to announce to his patrons and the public that he has
received by late arrivals, one of the largest and best selections
0f FIREARMS . „ .
seen in Sydney The latest iraproyements in Breach and
Muzzle-loading Guns, Rifles, Revolvers, ko. Agent for the
following celebrated London Manufacturers : T. Purdy and
Sons, John Rigby and Co., Joseph Lang and Son, Chas.
Osborne and Co., T. Bland and Son; also Bussey and Co.,
who manufacture all kinds of Sportsmen s Requirements for
tht field A large assortment of other celebrated makers
stock on hand from Webey, Riley, Scott, &c., and the best
Continental and American makers. A ehoice and complete
stock of Cutlery. Field and Marine Glasses, and sportsmen s
Supplies in general. Repairs promptly executed by skilful
workmen, and all goods will be faithfully guaranteed at
602 GEORGE-ST., BRICKFIELD HILL,
SYDNEY.
Inspection Invited. tSF Price List on application.
Flour I Flour! Flour!
LION FLOURMILLS,
KENT ST., SYDNEY.
Town Whites, Fine Seconds Flour,
Wheat Meal, Cones, Bran and Pol-
lard, always on hand. All made
from the very best wheat procurable,
and at the lowest prices.
fg
SINGER
and Co.’s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap
JOHN DANES,
363 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
WJ O H N S O N ,
• COOPER, SURVEYOR,
and
LICENSED GAUGER,
11 PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND
STREET, SYDNEY.
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces and Kegs, Tallow
Casks, new and second-hand; also, Wine and
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prices.
dAI'CING IX AIL ITS BRAXCIIEg,


TIME IS MONEY.
TIME IS 13s 6d. THE PRICE OF THE FAMOUS
WATERBURY WATCH.
Ihe WATERBURY will keep Mean Time or
Apparent Time, Greenwich or Sydney, sideral or
Solar, any sort of time except TRAM TIME,
which is a mystery past all understanding.
Ihe WATERBURY is (lm cheapest watch in
the world, the best timekeeper, and it can be re-
paired at a less cost than any other.
a
The WaTerbury.”
i
s
\
THE WATERBURY WATCH in QUEENSLAND.
SPLENDID TIMEKEEPERS.
EVERYBODY DELIGHTED.
d bI ! Sh ’ from township and back-
hnv! k v# h , k t’ £ ome km,lly greetings to the Water-
bury Watch Company, accompanied by cheques,
notes com, stamps, and orders for more watches,
rtead the record:—
TP* f n ei> y Phased with the watch you sent me.
It s a splendid timekeeper.
HENRY NOON,
Gladstone.
ever h sincelgoUt. k<sPt Perfect time
J. BENNETT,
Reid’s Creek.
Very pleased with the Waterbury Watch. It
taone/ XCell ° nt time ’ and is wor th three times the
H. HARRIS,
Cooktown.
The Waterbury Watch proves a most excellent
timekeeiper. lam wearing it every day, and with
all the rough work it gets in riding, & c ., it still
keeps the same. No bushman should be without
one - A. J. LOW,
Cion curry.
Ihe "Waterbury Watch gives immense satisfac-
tion. It makes good running with an eight
guinea lever I got from London a few years ago,
and it really seems absurd to get so good a time
keeper for so low a price.
ALFRED WITT,
Miriam Vale.
Am much pleased with the Waterbury Watch
Several people here have them, and all are satisfied
W. E. ELSON.
w A , m , Perfectly sasisfied with the Waterbury
Watch ; it keeps excellent time, and I have recom-
mended my friends to get them.
JOHN GEORGE MOELLER,
Mount Perry.
Received the Waterbury all right, and it is worth
throe or four times the money, being a splendid
timekeeper.
H. J. JOSEPH,
Seaforth, Burdekin.
. The Waterbury is keeping excellent time, and
is, in fact, all that it is represented to be.
HUGH M'COLL,
One Mile, Ravenswood.
The Waterbury is a splendid timekeeper never
having varied one minute since its arrival.
R. F. ALLOM,
Charters Towers.
The Waterbury is a splendid timekeeper,
could not wish for a better watch.
SAMUEL MANN,
Maroochie.
The Waterbury has not lost a minute since I got
it. It is a splendid timekeeper, and all the boys
here are charmed with it.
WM. COLLES,
Gympie.
The Waterbury arrived safely, and is keeping
good time. I consider it well worth more money
THOS. F. BOYDELL,
Brighton Downs.
The Waterbury Watch our Mr. Friend got from
you when in Brisbane, is going well.
H. and J. FRIEND,
Gladstone.
The Waterbury arrived all right, and keeps
good time.
WM. ALLEN,
Withersfield.
The Waterbury is the cheapest watch in the
world, and it can be repaired at a cost (according
to its requirements) in no case exceeding 2s. 6d. by
sending it to the office of
THE WATERBURY WATCH CO.,
54 MARGARET STREET,
SYDNEY.,
paying cost of transmission by post or parcels
delivery, and forwarding necessary amount for re-
turn, in addition to cost of repairs.
If sent in the box in which the WATERBURY
is sold, the postage fee (including registration), is
2s. each way.
T h r eo Chinse gardeners were recently lined for working
on Sunday in Sydney.
Here is a inn-trait of the Judge who declines to oat
vegetables grown on Sunday, or meat that has
been rattened on Sunday.
It is reported that another match for £lOO
aside and the championship of Australia has been
arranged between the well-known bicyclists, J
Rolfe, of Sydney, and F. S. Rollinson, ex-chain
pmn of America. The conditions are one, three,
and five miles, the winner of two distances to be
champion. The pair met on similar terms on the
11th September, Rolfe winning easily the first two
neats of one and five miles.
A Good Remedy for a Cold.—On going to bed
take a dose of Freeman’s Chlorodyne, either in
water or camphor mixture. The diaphoretic action
of this excellent remedy speedily produces a
general glow, followed by a free perspiration, dur-
ing which the pulse improves in character from a
oMainJd a f n l] ’ ° laS t ic one > a g° od night’s sleep is
obtained, and on waking in the morning the cold
- b /l f r d l f odilvo dissapeared. The certainty
v i\ LIOU of 1 reeman ’s Chlorodyne is very re-
™ f A ! °?J. il f«menUy prevent op
fIV f ’ f hng thls - reduces the violence of the
a nnnumim. In many countries Free-
man s Chlorodyne has entirely superseded the use
?L^ lnm0 ’ - and i U the tea gardens of India noth
g else is given for Ague and other forms of Fever,
Insist upon having “Freeman’s” only. Trade
mark an Elephant.—obtainable from all chemists
and storekeepers.
A MAN REPORTED MISSING
kidneV, fiver and uriar?ttubi\ brain qUieMy than
for W S e vifidt tralian Tme., selected vintages,
Hocking S l43p“eet conno > ss Only Sold by
Marie Brizard? Who is Marie
Warnambool (Vic.) is keenly interested in
the result of the Maribyrnong Plate. Mr. Frank
Tozer has put the citizens a “ town hall to
nothing ”on his colt Essex. Mr. T. won’t defray
the cost of a tower to the edifice, so the Corpora-
tion are arranging to have a little bit on Essex
themselves—enough to pay for the steeple if the
good thing comes off, It is to be hoped that Mr.
White will put Sydney “ something to nothing ’
on the Melbourne Cup. He might put us “on ” a
new gaol
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard ?
THE VERY MAN.
in need of a reporter,” said a Sydney editor, re-
position • a „'? a P T who had entered the office and applied for a
position, but I want a startling sensation writer, a man
n ew f: „ In ,? ther I want a man whoTs
*° tell alle - I think lam the man.” “That
want wbtJi ty °^ mUS t understand they are plausable lies I
Jfn 1 ™ ri V®“’. those that have every phase of the truth.” “ I
SbUi say that X am the man. Have you ever done much
newspaper work?” “No.” “Then how do you kno “you
in "opnosftmn'trftp 6 h f eS? ” “® ecause 1 have written articles
i?„ opi, ??. lt;i o n l .t o the famous St. Louis Lager Beer.” “Did
certain? 10 W “ 1 think so '' ‘‘ But you are not
certain l No. . Then you are not the man I want.”
Mittchell’s old established and reliable original
reform chemist shop, 141 King-street, was recently
purchased by A. A. Rigney, of Bega, who will
conduct both establishments on the standard prin-
ciples for which he is well known.
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard ?
Said he: “I’ve been married thirty years and
TJu “ e 7 er given nl 7 wife on e cross word.”
ihats because you never dared to, uncle,” said
a little nephew; “if you had auntie would have
made you hop.” Silence fell upon the circle, until
the red-headed servant girl came in and remarked
that the boy had better put on his new half-guinea
wear-resisting suit that had just arrived from
Summerfield and Company, the Great Juvenile
Out fitters 235 and 237, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard ?
Y A L.
Theatre r o
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. Sam. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. G,
L. Goodman. Stage Manager, Mr. John Wallace
Doors open at 7.30 ; commence at 8 ;
carriages, 10.30.
WILLIAMSON, GARNER, and MUSGROVE’S
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CONPANY
last two nights
lasi two .nights
Of Gilbert and Sullivan’s most successful work
THE MIKADO
THE MIKADO
THE MIKADO.
Saturday Evening, October 2nd, lOLANTHE
Musical Director, Mr. Alfred Cellier
Prices—Dress Circle, os. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Upper
m . 8 , 0x Plan °P en at Theatre daily from
10 till 5. Tickets for all parts at Eastway’s Hotel.
theatre.
Q. A I B T Y
Lessee Mr. Jno. Solomon.
Under the direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove
Stage Manager Mr. Alfred Maltby.
LAST TWO NIGHTS
and FAREWELL PERFORMANCES of
Mr. HARRY SAINT MAUR
in conjunction with
Mr. ALFRED MALTBY and
Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove’s
ROYAL COMEDY COMPANY
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
TWO TOO MANY.
Prices Orchestra Chairs, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. •
Gallery, Is.
Box Office at Nicholson’s.
General Business Manager, Monty Browne.
JV
E W OPERA HOU S I
under the lesseeship and management of
E. Majeroni and W. J. Wilson.
GREAT SUCCESS
of
Mr. W. J. HOLLOWAY’S
production of Shakespeare’s
ROMEO AND JULIET.
IMMENSE SUCCESS
of
MISS ESSIE JENYNS
as
JULIET.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s music store, corner of
King and George streets. Prices of admission-
Dress Circle, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ; PIT, ONE SHILL-
-IJN Ur.
Bus. Man, for W. J. Holloway... W. H. Manning
A
lhambra music
George-street, Haymarket.
HALL,
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp.
THE HOME OF MIRTH AND FUN.
Astounding Applause Greets
OUR CIRCLE OF LADIES AND GENTLEMEN
EVERY EVENING,
in their Ballads, Comic Songs, and Comic Sayings.
orc7 “ t7a Chats -
Grand Concert Spirituel Every Sunday Evening
at 7.30
J. TURNER, ROBINSONYTccT
TAILORS,
m. J§ : \
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF SPRING GOODS.
~~
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prices.
liie Queens visit to the Colonial Exhibition
had curious results. Society flocked to the shew
and the throng of beautiful women of the highe<
rank was unprecedented since the earlier part t
icr Majesty s reign. The ladies’ drosses were a
exhibition of themselves, and the swell operatoi
among the London cut-purses made a field-day
ihe Duchess of Westminster hadajewelled watch
chain, worth two hundred guineas, neatly cu
away with pincers, and Lady Dudley lost a necklc
and locket, valued at three hundred and seventy
five guineas for the gold and gems alone. As ;
work of art and a family jewel the locket wa
priceless. The Hon. Mrs. Cholmondely had
jewelled bracelet actually stolen from her arm ir
e pressure, and a most audacious attempt was
made to snatch a diamond earring from the eai
of the Countess of Exeter by a person who dis
appeared in the crowd. Not any of the stolen
jewels have been recovered, despite the utmost
exertions of the police. The Marchioness of Ely
also lost a most exquisite necklet and locket, the
auty of which had but a few minutes before
been commented on by the Princess Beatrice in
the private retiring rooms of the royal party ; and
Lady Rosebery had a massive albert chain snipped
clean away from her watch. In these last two
instancs. however, London Society is laughing at
the expense of the thieves. It appears that a
great number of the leaders of fashion in England
warned by past losses, do not wear their family
TW I I v n <? üblic occasions, or when shopping!
iV ?L e th ° P r ooaution to wear jewellery which
lw d h r g i 3 ! ab , C fl ' om sterlin g gold and real
« but whlch > despite its beauty and lasting
as OriI;f 1 oi C o m rn ara t 1 7 ely costless - This is known
aa Oriental Gold, which is made in all the most
delicate and beautiful designs, and can therefore
be worn with impunity by the highest ladies In
the case of Lady Rosebery and the Marchioness
0., n ' ; i WaS h , e 7 e goods which deceived even the
* “ eyc .°! the cleverest London swell mobs-
thTb 1 Wh f' h f ad called forth the encomiums of
nnL P - C !f B B ? a rice - This curious incident has
occasioned quite a sensation in London, and has
S tn eXt T diMry demand for these oriental
have a branch*in Sidney' at 471°, Geo^e-street 3
“ IBS
ORIENTAL
is the latest triumph of
Science. It is a noble
GOLD
alloy, possessing the enact lustre, beauty
and endurance of sterling Qold. A legi-
timate us 5 has boon found for this noble metal, by
working it into Jewellery of the most exquisite de-
signs. The Oriental Gold Co.,
°* 474 George St., Sydney, has
large consignments of these lovely goods, which they
sell at a fraction of the cost of Sterling Sold Jewellery,
No one can detect the difference. Send for a
Priced Catalogue, or for one of the fol-
lowing samples, all of Oriental Sold-
Brooches,Ss.; Jewelled (Parisian
Brilliants) Brooch, 7s. 6d.; Cent’s
Albert, 7s. 6d.j Pair Earrings,
PlainSs., Jewelled,7s.6d.; Locket
55., Jewelled, lOs.; Ladies’ Alberts
15s. P. 0.0. payable Oriental Gold
Co.
|ggp“We send theseon approval. If they don’t
please, return uninjured by the First
Mail, and we repay the cash, less postage.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.,
474 G-eorge-street,
OPPOSITE THE MARKETS,
SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1882.
have again much pleasure in addressing
exuansinn U nf C n St u me - rs and the P ublic - The rapid
expansion of our business, and the repeated orders
fir I blek Ve i r T«9 UStonlerS Wh ° dealt with us «»
Goods L a 1882 ’ gratifying proofs that our
Sri method °‘ t-ivo
We continue the same system. We buy direct
from the makers in London, Paris, and New York
all such Goods, Watches, &c., as are not the pro-
duct of our Company’s own works. We add a
tair and reasonable profit, and SELL FOR CASH
Ivn S stli°o dm f b i ad debts ’ and steering clear of the
evil system of charging rates which compel paying
customers to make good the default of bid marks
HERE IS THE BASIS OF OUR SYSTEM
SESISSBISHEmSs
WE RETURN THE MONEY IN FULL,
deducting merely the trifle of actual postal charges’
brooch—you describe, as nearly
On receiving the Brooch, or other article ifvou don’t entirely
%sg SS *“ f “" “ KB
ris «Sr ° *saasa a
474 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY,
Opposite the Markets,
&& WE HAVE NEVER HAD ONE SINGLE
ARTICLE RETURNED!
they desTret rTbn Tt a good deal of trouble when
ordering a samo?/™ 8, C ?° 10 ? am ° n g numerous patterns, by
send t Cel an u sendm S on the money for same
its nriee lnd d tn B each article of which is marked with
returns the customer selects one or more articles, and
money by neTt pS! reUP ° n W 6 3end back the balance of thj


ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS
AMERICAN BUGGIES,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY
IMPORTED FOR CITY OR COUNTRY USE.
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM,
STERLING QUALITY,
AT
Lowest Prices.
MUMIM
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
KVEKY VEHICLE Ot'AftANTEED.
A
CADEMY OF MUSIC.
LAST THREE NIGHTS
of the
PREMIER COMPANY
HISCOCK’S FEDERAL MINSTRELS,
in conjunction with the RAYNOR BROTHERS,
previous to their annual tour to Melbourne.
FAREWELL. FAREWELL. FAREWELL.
OADK MY O F MUSIC.
Lessee Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
Sub-Lessee Mr. Harry Rickards.
MONDAY, OCTOBER 4,
Rc-appearance of the Favourites,
THE RICKARDS-LEETE COMPANY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
For a short season only previous to their departure
for England. New song, now dances, new dresses.
Admission, 4s, 3s, 2s, Is. Gnl. Man. Mr. P. Stuart.
Royal standard theatre
Castlereagh-Street.
Lessee Mr. Frank Smith.
Manager for Mr. F. Smith Mr. J. Grant.
UNDER THE MANAGEMENT OF MR.
DAMPIER.
Business Manager Mr. Fred. Gunther.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING,
LAST NIGHT OF
SAINT OR SINNER.
FRIDAY EVENING, HAMLET.
SATURDAY, October 2, FAUST.
In preparation, AS YOU LIKE IT.
8 > IDGWAY’S PAVILION OF VARIETIES.
JL Belmore Park.
SUCCESS. SUCCESS. SUCCESS.
The WORLD-RENOWNED RIDGWAY FAMILY,
In conjunction with
HERBERT and FITZGERALD’S MAMMOTH
CIRCUS.
3000 People witnessed their Performance on
Saturday Evening.
Hundreds turned away nightly.
THE LARGEST, BEST, AND MOST COMPLETE
SHOW EVER SEEN IN SYDNEY.
Doors open at 7.15 ; Overture at 8 o’clock.
Prices of Admission.—Private Boxes, containing
4 chairs, 155.; Extra Chairs, 3s. each; Reserved
Seats, 35.; Stalls with chairs, 25.; Gallery, Is.;
Children half-price, gallery excepted.
Box Plan open daily at Pavilion entrance.
Proprietor Mr. G. Ridgway.
Equestrian Director Mr. Robt. Johnson.
Business Manager ... ...Mr, H. F. Wachsmuth.
r HHE WORLD-RENOWNED FAUST FAMILY
1 and HERR VON DER MEHDEN.
First Australian Tour. Great Success Every-
where.
Bambala—Friday and Saturday, Ist and 2nd Oct.
Nimitybelle—Monday, Oct. 4.
Cooma —Tues. and Wed., Oct. 5 and 6.
Queenbeyan, Goulburn, MarUlan, Moss Vale to
follow.
Prices of Admission —45., 35., 2s.
Manager
FAMILY
(Organised,
BELLRINGERS.
1867.)
Mr. Harry Lynch.
Oddfellows’ Hall, Waverley—Thursday, 30th Sept.
Masonic Hall, St. Leonards—Friday, Ist October.
Town Hall, Randwick—Monday, 4th October.
St. Mathias Hall, Paddington—Tues., sth October.
Town Hall, Marrickville— Wednesday, 6th Oct.
Thursday, St. Peters—Friday, Botany.
SCHOOIToF ARTS HALL, ROCKHAMPTON,
r IE above Hall is now the most completely -
I. furnished and popular place of amusement
north of Brisbane. The Faust Family, MacMahon
and Leitch’s Dramatic Company, and Searelle and
Harding’s Opera Company have just concluded
most successful seasons ; also return visits in this
Hall.
For terms —Apply,
THE SECRETARY, School of Arts.
w.
J. HOLLOWAY
and
MISS ESSIE JENYNS,
supported by their especially selected Company,
in
“A Ring of Iron,” “A Mad Marriage,” “The
Broken Idol,” “ Hamlet,” “ Romeo and Juliet,”
“ Much Ado About Nothing,” “As You Like It,”
&c., &c.
OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY, SEPTEMBER 11.
“A RING OF IRON.”
M . RILEY
• (late of the Detective Force),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
73 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
confidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
divorce, libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
narriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
Rents and debts collected. From R. M. R.’s long experience
in the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
New Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
globe, he is in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
expedition and strictest secresy, and to faithfully and
promptly attend to all business entrusted to h care.
It
sdf
gsd
w.
v/ ?t cy A?^6 J
O&t&X'&£/
r A/7//r///^x?/ #ie s<v&ce^f£
& C S^
T
&//
'tftiAs ycArn /x^
ILLUSTRATION (in reduced size) of £1 Order to be found in the
“LARGE BOTTLES” OF WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
FOLEY’S SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
I NSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing,
. Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &c. ‘For
terms, &c., apply to
H. M. CANSDELL,
Manager and Instructor.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, September 28, 1886.
Tenders for public works and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the lowing PL BLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten-
ders are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will he announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to which
Tenders
can he received
at this office.
Erection of Caretaker’s Cottage
on Potts Hill, Sydney Water
Supply Works
Construction of Iron Water
Tower, Wentworth Water
Works
Ditto Pump Chamber. See., ditto
ditto, ditto
Supply of Cast Iron Pipes,
Valves, &c., ditto ditto ditto
Ditto Boiler and Fittings, and
erection of Pumps, ditto ditto
ditto
Ditto Flexible-jointed Pipes, &c.,
ditto ditto ditto
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Wee Waa
Erection of Pumper’s House,
Wilga, Great Western Railway
Supply of Travelling Water-
tank mounted on double bogies,
for Tramway Department
Erection of Caretaker’s Cottage
Cataract River, Sydney Water |
Supply Works
Extension of Gosford Wharf at
Brisbane Water
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office at Wagga Wagga
Supply of One Van for Travell-
ing Gas Supply
Supply of One Truck for Travel-
ling Gas Supply
Supply of Two Steel Gas Holders
Erection of Gatehouse, Parra-
matta-road Crossing on Home-
bush-Waratah Railway
Construction of Iron Water
Tower, Contract 1, Bourke
Water Supply
Construction of Settling Reser-
voirs, Boiler-house, See., Con-
tract 2, Bourke Water Supply
Supply of Pipes, Valves, &c.,
Contract 3, ditto ditto ditto
Supply and Erection of Engines,
Boiler, Sec., Contract 4, ditto
ditto ditto
Erection of Court-house Camp-
belltown
Tuesday,
October 5,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
October 12,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
October 26,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
November 2,
at 11 o’clock.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
&
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWA R E
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
„ «ORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
„. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
Thousands of people have tried
AND PROVED THAT
FATHER WOLFREY’S WORM POWDERS
are the best every way for children and adults.
Prepared only uy the undersigned. Price, 6d.
each; by post 7d. When ordering please state
age of patient.
EAMES’
HOREHOUND
AND
COLTSFOOT
SYRUP.
iP
The best medi
cine for reliev-
ing coughs,
colds, hoarse-
ness. &c. It has
a great sale in
Sydney. Price,
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d
per bottle.
EAMES’ ANTIBILIOUS PILLS.
Send for list of testimonials. Price, Is., Is. 6d.,
and 2s. per box. By post 2d. extra.
The above may be procured through any chemist
or storekeeper, or direct from
W. D. EAMES, CHEMIST,
Apothecaries’ Hal',
14, OXFORD-STEEET, SYDNEY.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic-
Doloreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary! In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. A, ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
531 George-streat only.
ssmssM.
Barry’s TVicdpherous.
dwarantcd to make the
hair grow on bald heads, to
eradicate scurf and dan
druff, and remove all im-
purities from the scalp. It
positively prevents the hair
from falling out or turning
gray, and in every case
makes it thick, soft, glossy,
and abundant,.
BARRY’S i
FLORIDA WATER,* 1
The original and the Best
The only perfume in the
world that has received the
endorsement of a Government. Put up in three
sizes.
Sole Wholesale agents:
S. HOFFNUNG- and CO.,
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
<V
dN
PATENT
LLS
PI
*7
0
SK
<h
Vt
m
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box lor bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
theskin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &e. ihe first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
done it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer ia
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few dos'es of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstruetions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BBECHAM’S
PILLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the system. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy ?f the human
frame. These are “FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Tfheezing, &c., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Beecham’s
Cough Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be
removed.
Caution. —The public are requested to notice tin t
the words “ Beechah’k Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepare-?, only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. l|d. and 2s. 9d.
each.- —Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B. —Pull directions are given with each box.
COOLALTA WINES
(SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX),
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 GEORGE STREET
(Beneath Paling’s).
A Blessing in every Family.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT,
There is not a country in the civilized world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers.
In all the ordinary ailments of humanity their beneficent
action is at once recognised.
Fullest directions are supplied for their use in every disease.
IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London.
AST Purchasasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and
Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-street, London, they
are spurious.


WATCH
Yfffi KIDfJEYg.
They are the most important secretory organs.
Into and through the Kidneys flow the waste fluids of
the body, containing poisonous matter taken out of
the system. If the Kidneys do not act properly this
matter is retained, the whole system becomes dis-
ordered, and the following symptoms will follow
Headache, Weakness, Pain in the Small of back and
loins, flushes of heat, chills, with disordered stomach
and bowels. You can thoroughly pmtect the Kidneys
by I)r. Bell’s Bitters, and when any of these symptoms
manifest themselves you can quickly rid yourself of
them by this best of all medicines for the "Kidneys—
Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
What is Dyspepsia?
Among the many symptoms of Dyspepsia or Indi-
gestion the most prominent are: —Variable appetite ;
faint, gnawing feeling at. pit of the stomach, with un-
satisfied craving for food ; heartburn, feeling of
weight and wind in the stomach, bad breath, bad
taste in the mouth, low spirits, general prostration,
headache, and constipation. There is no form of
disease more prevalent than dyspepsia, and none so
peculiar to the high-livingand rapid-eating Australian
people. Alcohol and tobacco produce Dyspepsia;
also bad air, rapid eating, &c. Dr. Bell’s Bitters will
cure the worst ease by regulating the bowels and
toning up the digestive organs. Sold everywhere.
Noth.— Any poor Person, or the manager of any
Hospital, Asylum, ©r Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously, upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
BELL’S BITTERS
Manufacturing Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND, & AUSTRALIA.
o
BUTCHER, FEHON & CO., SYDNEY
AGENTS FOR
New South Wales & Queensland.
The New Furniture and Carpet
Warehouse
Jones, Lawson Bros, & Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
AT
LESS THAN ENGLISH PRICES.
EIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
with three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING ROOMS,
At the Exceedingly Low Price of £5 15s.
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER SUITES,
At Correspondingly Low Prices.
FURNITURE for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY,
THE DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING-ROOM.
BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEADS,
in great variety.
Jones, Lawson Bros., and Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
thUfollowing goods
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Corn Paint, Is
Asiatic Liniment, 2s
That Modern Appetiser, The Australian Relish,ls
A. Soyer’s Baking Powder, (free from alum) 6d.
Page’s Custard powder, i in Box, Is.—makes two
quarts fine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linctus, for coughs, Is.
Clayton’s Nervine, for toothache and cold in the
gums, Is.
Dr. Barharossa’s Cantharides and Russian Bear’s
Grease Oil, for covering bald patches and pro
ducing whiskers. 2s. 6d.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
177, 268 and 266 PITT STREET.
a
MANUFACTURERS
& IMPORTERS OF
HATS^CAPS&c
( -Vfr. .
438CEORCE ST
SYDNEY 1
tf/cfoute jhasietter'S
//
or
iy
w'
m
A sad coincidence—twins.
“Woman’s sufferage”—any age over 29.
Woman’s greatest glory is her hair, and
she should be very economical of it when she is
ooking.— Somerville Journal.
One important difference between a man
and a woman is that a man puts his clothes on
him, while a woman puts herself in her clothes.
Marie Brizard 1 Who is Marie Brizard 1
Miss Blanche : “ Wouldn’t you say, Mr. Bow-
string, that Mr. Highnote has a falsetto voice?”
Mr. Bowstring: “ Well, I don’t know, Miss
Blanche, as I should say quite that; but I know
that he has a false set o’ teeth, and does not wear
one of those beautiful and stylish £3 3s. suits, to
measure, cut by one of the eight high-class cutters
employed by Summerfleld and Company, the great
juvenile out fitters, 235 and 237, Pitt-street,
Sydney.
Marie Brizard ? Who is Mario Brizard 1
Certainly one of the most successful City Hotels, in respect
of first-class Wines, Spirits, &c., and with regard to Lun-
cheon, is Hanney’s Great Northern Hotel, Charlotte-place.
A first-class Luncheon is provided from 12 to 3, which is
patronised by the commercial men in this part of the city,.
Just make one call, and we are sure you will be satisfied.*
Marie Brizard? Who is Marie Brizard ?
rjIHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES;
_ 64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve fund 675,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.
The fresh food and ice company
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
No. 23 ROYAL ARCADE,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &c., with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the '"Agency for
“ KOUMISS.” so highly recommended in pulmo-
nary complaints.
FRESH FOOD AND ICE CO., LIMITED,
Head Office 21 Harbour-street.
Stables Liverpool-street.
Factory Mittagong.
GENTLEMEN'S CLOTHES REPAIRED AND
f -CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET
Near Market-street.
M
O N U M E N T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on reques
J. CUNNINGHAM,
MA BOA BET-STREET, WVNWABD SQUARE, SYDNEY 1
ROWLANDS' MACASSAR OIL preserves,
strengthens, and beautifies the hair: it contains
no lead or mineral ingredients, and can now be
also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and
persons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a most cooling,
and refreshing wash for the face, hands and arms,
and is perfectly free from any mineral of metallic
admixtures; it disperses freckles, tan, prickly heat,
redness, pimples, &c.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE produces
immediately a perfect change in red or grey hair,
whiskers and eyebrows, to a glossy and permanent
brown or black, which colour neither washing nor
perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bros.,
E. Prossbr & Co., Sydney,
“ Look here, judge,” said the burglar, “ I
ain’t so bad as you think. You just give mo time
and I’ll reform.” And the judge gave him 15
years.
Fond father : “ Don’t you think I ought
to have my daughter’s voice cultivated.” Tor-
tured guest, with much emphasis: “ I think you
ught to have something done to it.”
Rev. Ward Beecher startled a lot of good
people at a very dull prayer-meeting at which he
presided recently. He told them they had better
hurry up a bit, “as he didn’t fancy acting as um-
pire of a slecping-match.’ ’
Visitor (regarding the baby) : “Oh, what
a dear little duck of a child ! He resembles you
both, indeed he does. He has got his mother’s
handsome eyes and his father’s hair.” Father
(who is bald-headed) : “Iguesshehas ; I haven’t.”
A Potts Point family recently engaged a
cook who advertised that she had been two years
in her last place. They have' since learned that
she would have been throe years in that “ last
place” if the usual reduction of the sentence had
not been made.
At children’s party. Hostess (to little
boy, aged nine, who stands aloof and looks bored) :
“ Now, my dear, choose one of the nice little girls
for your wife.” “ Wife ! No wife for me. I
ain’t a-going to get married. Do you think 1 want
to be worried out of my life—like pa ! ”
Marie Brizard 1 Who is Marie Brizard ?
Premier ball-room decorators of New South Wales. Sale
and Dare, decorators. Ball and banquet rooms tastefully
deoorated with flag and floral decorations, 60i Hunter-street
Sydney.*
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard ?
CALLED BACK.
The busy throng in Pitt-street is called back to
gaze with wonder at the beautiful display of Spring
goods in the windows of SUmmerfleld and Company.
The well-known excellence of our boys’ clothing,
the pretty designs and moderate prices need no
comment. For big boys and youths, we are show-
ing a very superior line of long trousers suits at
18s. 6d. and 21s. Summerfield and Company,
Merchant Tailors, 235 and 237, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Marie Brizard ? Who is Marie Brizard ?
THE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY
(ESTABLISHED 1869).
Paid-up Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund, £155,000
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C.
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches : Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Gosford, Nyn-
gan, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonard’s, Newcastle
and Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
London Bankers: The National Provincial Bank of
England.
THE “ACME” SHIRTS.
THE highest point of perfection in the manu-
facture of
GENTLEMEN’S SHIRTS
having been reached by ourselves, we are now
prepared to supply our Customers with Shirts
made of any material, cut on the most scientific
principle,
GUARANTEEING PERFECT EASE AND
COMFORT,
and as we use materials of the very best quality,
durability and good value are also secured.
A. A. DEBNEY & CO.,
13 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
Manufactory • • ■ Waverley.
tar THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on demand. Offices, i Park-st.
J. V. WARHEAM, Manager.
UMBRELLAS
HE COVERED.'
£ITUDY
ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames re-
covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made equal
to New, at
J, SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly executed.
Anything you repire from Sydney
FORWARDED AT
COST PRICE.
NO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, forwarded free of all
charges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
JOHN T. MIMES & CO.,
90 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, Jf.S.W.
Everybody \
SHOULD USEJ
PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
FLOI7E!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD,
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL
831 GBOR9E-SXRBBX, SYDNEY,
Good News for the Music-loving Public.
A BRANCH OF THE
Musical Instrument Direct
Supply Association
Is NOW OPEN at
674 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY,
With the Largest Stock of Musical Instruments in
the Southern Hemisphere,
AT LONDON prices, 50 per cent, less
than Sydney prices,
Direct from the European manufacturers to
the Australian consumer.
4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 9/6. 12/6. 17/6, 21/, 25/, SO/.
45/, to £2O.
Speciality : The German-Anglo, in wood box, 21/-
~ Ditto, superior, with steel notes, 35-
q®®oaq a © © ® V
'/■ uf I/' 1/ l/l l/l 7
©
ACOORDEONS
Rt 7/6,10/6 12/6.15/, 17/6.
21/-. *5/-, SO/-, 40/-, to £6
Speciality : The miniature Melodian, 21/-,
Ditto, oak, with steel notes, 42/-.
10/6.15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality : Old Copy Violin, with case, bow
instruction book, 35/-.
CORNETS
at 40/-, 50/-, 15/-, 105/-, 130/-
to £lB.
fg
THE SYMPHONETTE!
In nickel silver, with six tunes, 30/-.
Extra tunes, 1/- each.
From 5/6 each to £lO.
The ,£ Walter Howard ” American Nickel Banjo,
£3 3s.
S3T Brass and Drum and Fife Bands furnished
throughout. Negro Minstrel Troupes fitted out.
Clarionet?, Violin Strings and Fittings, Flageolets
Drums, Guitars, Harmonicons, Tambourines,
and, in fact, an assortment of every class
of Musical Instrument, from a
Jew’s Harp to a Church Organ.
MUSIC ! MUSIC !! MUSIC ! !
200,000 Copies New and Popular Music, published
at 35., is., and 55., sold at 9d. per copy.
O K WORTH OF X? "I
XIU MUSIC FOR SDI.
All instruments carefully packed and forwarded
to any part of the colonies.
LOUIS SIMONSEN,


■
WiH. PALING & CO.
LIMMITED
35C GEORGE-ST.,
have the
Largest and Best Selected
STOCK OF
PIANOS, ORGANS,
AND
MUSIC.
Best Makers, lowest Prices.
EASY TIME-PAYMENT STSTEM
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues & Prices on Affliction.
W. 11. PALING & CO.
356 George-st., Sydney.
MANUFACTURI
Steam’work's',Kent s t near Erskine $ (
*lo*22++*s Cxi+44 ow .
to on otfi Q" aN °^Z. t - T .
JAMES STEDMAN
LEg SOf/^ i
MANUFACTURING HATTERS.
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
RTRTfRSTJFXCW
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
dsfsd
Q u^J^cWf
ASTHMA £ RON CHIT 1 1S, COU G HS
PREPARED ONLY BY i
,1 Thomas Ingham.
IRoc KHAM P T Q N
a.?5357i~
r
u
L
I
B
A
I
c
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Metals—
PAltlS, lb 78; CALCUTTA ,1881,
for pie eminent excellence of quality.
SPRING PROWERS
JOCKEY CLUB
HELIOTROPE
JASMIN
MAGNOLIA
Atkinson’s renowned
ENGLISH LAVENDER WATER
and other well-known Mumcs ari »n-
-equalled lor tl.oir delight, ul and lasting odour
ATKINSON’S OR ENTAI TOOTH PASTE.
UnrivalU d for cleansing, heau living, and
preserving the Tceih and Gums.
Of all Dealers, and nr the Manufacturers—
J SE ATKINSON,
21, Oi.D Bond Stheit, London.
Trade Mark—"NVhite Hose" on" Golden
fg
AGUARANTEEwith
each pipe for real
Meerschaum and
Amber.
[ Fire-proof Briars. Repairs, &e.
S. ROSENTHAL, Pipemaker,
1 Little Collins-sti-ect, East, Melbourne.
Illustrated Catalogues on application,
THE NEW FURNITURE I CARPET
WAREHOUSE,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
NEAR HUNTER STREET,
known as
POMEROY HOUSE.
JONES, LAWSON BROS., & CO.
INVITE INSPECTION
of
THEIR LARGE AND VARIED STOCK
OF
CABINET AND ‘UPHOLSTERY FURNITURE,
Carpets, Curtains, Rugs,
FLOORCLOTHS,
BEDSTEADS & BEDDING,
OFFICE FURNITURE, &c., &0.,
All of which arc marked in
PLAIN FIGURES,
AT
LESS THAN ENGLISH PRICES.
JONES, LAWSON BROS., & CO.
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
NEAR HUNTER STREET.
Out-door Auction Sales Conducted. Inventories and Valuations made.
ECORNILLON & CO., Wine and Spirit
• Merchants, 22 Bridge street, Sydney,
Have on Sale —
Mackies & Co. celebrated Whiskie
E. Remy Martin & Co.’s Centaur Brandy, in
bulk and cases
Yve. Martin and Fils Squirrel Brandy
Ca. Vincola del norte de Espana, Rioja Clarets,
Port, &c.
The unequalled A.V.H. Gin, &c., &c.
| EMOCRAT’S POPULAR CONSULTATIONS.
CAULFIELD CUP of 1886.
1500 Subscribers at £1 each.
First Horse £lOOO
Seoond Horse 200
Third Horse 100
Starters, £lOO ; Non-Starters, £lOO ; to be divided
amongst them.
Starters (£250) divided, Non-starters (£250) divided,
Apply at once for tickets, and enclose two ad-
dressed envelopes with two postage stamps (on any
colony) for reply and result. Country cheques
and intercolonial cheques and bank notes must
have exchange added.
Address—“ DEMOCRAT,” care of J. P. T.
Caulfield, Carlyle Chambers, 135 King-street,
Sydney, N.S. Wales
“ DEMOCRAT’S ” CREDENTIALS.
Extract from Sydney Sunday News :—
“ In our advertising eolnmns will be found the
public notices of ‘ Democrat’s ’ Consultations on
the Caulfield and Melbourne Cups for 1886, which
promise to be most popular undertakings on the
part of the spirited and enterprising promoter of
those wonderful ‘ fortune-making ’ lotteries. It is
not often that we have a good word to say of racing
consultations as a rule, hut in ‘Democrat’s’ case
we can strongly recommend them to the public, as
we happen to know the moving spirit—one of the
right sort, and who is proverbial in racing circles
for honest and square dealing. One of the best
features of ‘ Democrat’s ’ consultations is the fact
of the drawing being conducted by a committee
of influential gentlemen, whose names are above
suspicion. 1
Extract from Yass Courier :—
“We desire to draw attention to an advertisement which,
announces the conditions of ‘Democrat’s’ uonsultations on
the Caulfield and Melbourne Cups. The consultations are
most popular with the public, and they have received most
favourable notices from the press, and this is scarcely ever
found in sporting matters, only in cases where the business
transacted is of an honourable and genuine nature.
Extract from Wallsend Sun.
“‘Democrat’ announces his famous consultations, com-
mencing with the Caulfield Cup, run on October 16th ; and
the Melbourne Cup, run on November 2nd. The Sydney
press gives ‘ Democrat’ an excellent character as a promoter
of sweeps, hence the public have a guarantee that the trans-
action is carried on fair and above board.”
Extract from Nungan Mercury and Macquarie Advertiser
“We would draw attention to ‘ Democrat’ll ’ advertiremer t
of his consultations, by which it will be seen that he has
both large and small sweeps open upon all the principal
events to come off shortly. As ‘Democrat’ is highly spoken
of by the press, and has the reputation of conducting his
sweeps fairly, we can recommend him to our friends who
wish to invest money on any event."
Several other newspapers have borne similar testimony to
the genuineness of " Democrat’s” consultations,
MAMMOTH CONSULTATION.
Starters divide £5OO ; Non-starters divide £5OO.
Immediate application for tickets invited, so
that lucky drawers of horses will have time to
hedge.
All “Democrat’s” consultations are drawn in,
the presence of a committee of well-known, reliable
and respected leading public men of Sydney.
Address —“DEMOCRAT,” care of J. P, T.
Cauldfleld, 135 King-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
J. MURPHY’S
CENTRAL LOAN AND DISCOUNT
OFFICES,
CORNER OF KENT AND LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite George-street.
MONEY LENT AT THE LOWEST RATE OF INTEREST
IN THIS CITY.
Loans from Is. to £lOOO, at lOd. in the £
per month.
Loans on Gold and Silver Jewellery, Clothing,
and every description of Portable Property,
granted at Rates never before attempted in this
Colony.
American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murphy’s Central Loan and Dis-
count Offices, corner of Kent and Liverpool
streets, opposite George-street.
£10,000.—“ BARB’S ” GRAND CON-
-3W SULTATION on the MELBOURNE CUP,
to be run on the Flemington Racecourse, Mel-
bourne, in November, 1886. 20,000 Members at
10s. each, to be divided as follows : —The Highest
Prize is £2OOO, the Lowest £7 10s.
Prizes —lst horse, £2OOO ; 2nd horse, £lOOO ;
3rd horse, £6OO ; Starters (divided), £6OO Non-
starters (divided), £9OO.
Cash Awards. —Ten Prizes at £lOO each;
Twenty Prizes at £5O each ; Thirty prizes at £25
each ; Forty prizes at £2O each ; Sixty prizes at
£lO each ; One Hundred £7 10s.
Each Ticket has seven chances, and can obtain
a Prize in each of the Seven Drawings, which re-
duces the odds to about six to one ; in fact, One
Ten Shillings Ticket could obtain seven Prizes.
Please send P.O. Orders when convenient, or Bank Notes
Country Cheques must have One Shilling exchange added
and marked correct by bank. Two stamps required for reply
and result. The drawing will take place under the super-
vision of a Committee of the Shareholders. All will be done
to ensure the entire satisfaction of Subscribers. Please send
early for Tickets and Register letters. Please address—
“BAßß,”
c. o. T. G. Green, Guildhall Hotel,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
TO WINEGROWERS AND OTHERS.
G. STEPHENSON nAS ON SALE
WINE CASKS, 250 to 400 gallons ;
also,
Rum, Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS.
Hogsheads, Quarter-casks, Spirit Kegs, from 2
gallons and upwards.
COOPERAGE.
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market streets,
iTOaanffzni
son dr shoe lEtiEss, sums CJ subsists.
sdf
gsd
HAUTHAWAH
•LB lEUABLE
Peerless
Gloss.
1 cecssslty io arerj
family. It blacks and
polishes Ladies’ and
Children’s Boots,
Shoes, Bubbars and
Satchels, without
brush tag. Always
gives satisfaction
BOSTON,
VIENNA,
PHIL-A-,
ISC£> Is conceded to M
STAMDABD."
G. L. H AUTH AWAY & SONS,
$3l ft 233 Congress Street. Sostfl*
MASS.. UJ3.A
fg
sdf
<0
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
m\
T
HE
REMINGTON
TYPE-WRITER
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY, EASE, CONVENIENCE,
ECONOMY.
flar THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER saves abour,
stationery, and time, writing much faster than expert pen-
men, and condensing matter to less than one-half the space
occupied by pen writing. Beautiful copies may be taken in
the usual manner in the letter-press. Merchants, bankers,
solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors, reporters, and all
men of business should use the type-writer and save much
valuable time.
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY & CO.,
410 Kent-street.
RAW VASELINE.
X
■m
A
HORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
Collar Check and Serge, 40 and 44 inches ;
rge assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladies’ and
ntlemen’s Saddles, Spurs, andj all kinds of
Saddlers’ Ironmongery, &c.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS, AND SADDLERS
IRONMONGERS,
125 YORK ST., SYDNEY.
•of popuetTß_ induiojd saapjQ Xiiunoo
•aajjjsod sariSoi'eyßQ
•AHNGAS ‘ILHHHLS LLIH 803 ‘HdVQHV HOO£
S JOOI/MAI MVmiM
AvajA uo grfuAAiu sqoog;
puuqpuooag pun SHHUTOA UUU 2 (
poSuuqoxa jo ‘piog ‘^qSnoa
‘BXOO9 ‘SXOOa ‘SXoOfI
/'4V
m
\ X ?
A
O
v- f
bpP
V
'\Au‘
*
•4*o'
\,


British Association (loq.): “ Well, Sir Patrick, we received
your invitation to visit Sydney (at the Government expense),
and here we are.”
Sir P. : “ Invitation ! I gave you no invitation. It’s true I
cabled over to enquire if you would accept an invitation, but I
never for a moment dreamt that you would in-
quiry as an actual invitation. HOW
ever, as you have come I suppose we
shall have to proceed with the fegtfvj
ties and open the Bondi sewer ! ”
, The Naturalist’s report: “Saw a kangaroo, and
'tried to catch him by the usuaJ method "known to
science , but this particular specimen having no tail
x failed dismally.
* 0,^1, V
p^ : "
Report of Prof. Blowhard, F.R.S, A.S.S.
mm '“ Sydney is not much of a lecture-field. 1
read my celebrated paper on the Mechanism
of the Pin-wheel to empty benches, as there
was a nigger minstrel show in town the
same night.”
“ The rooks along the fore-shores
of Sydney Harbour are curious.
The inhabitants break off bits thereof
and eat them. I tried some, and it
tasted uncommonly like oysters.”—
Geologist's report.
w \ \\ 11 1 1 / •
“ The opening of the Bondi Sewer
wag the event of our visit. Only
members of the 8.A.. were admitted
'to the sewer, and these were fur-
•nished with eau- 1
de-cologne at the
Government
expense.”
President of British Association : M I’m blowed if I can make
out whether this is an invitation or not.”
ih / From the Natural-
/f, ist’s Diary : “ Saw a
larrikin to-day stand-
ing on his hind legs.
How he managed to do
it in such boots puzzles
Jiffie. The gaol authori-
ties have promised
me a specimen for
dissection soon, as
they are going to hang
a lot for some outrage
or other lately committed.”
Prof. Tublittle’s report. “ I tested the velocity of the
Wind in a Southerly Buster and find that a hat blown
from a bald-headed party will travel at the rate of 75
miles in a minute.”
“ At a meeting of the British Associa-
tion, held in Sydney, -th, 1888, Doc-
tor Moonshine read a paper on the Propa-
gation of the Bunyip. The Association
have to report that they can sleep just as
well in Sydney as in any othdl part of the
world.”
A Chapter on the British Association.


p EMI TO)
„ SAVLK CYL
c) v — 9
*j4/i exquisite
BY THE PROPRIETOR
TOOTH PAS Ti
FOf{ /rs^NT/SEPT/C
firJo clea/sz/g properties.
T,B,MELHUISH , Pharmaceutical Chemist
* 134 William ST ; SYD At£Y
mi
OOTS
OOTS
T: WILLIAMS & CO.,
IMPORTERS OF
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Also Manufacturers of
The Finest Quality of Goods in the above Lines.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
S3OH
S3OH
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
WJLNTED IJST EVERY HOUSE.
ANIMALS
EFFECTUALLY DEST
ALLNOXIOUS INSECT
FLEAS.FLIES BEETLES MOSaUITOES
COCKR ANO IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
! HARMLESSTO BIRDS DOGS
‘FOWLS OR OTHER
mXm
gsd
fgds
HE
FELTON-GRIMWADEWC?
- MELBOURNEj^_
WANTED IN EVERY^HOUSE
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware ot
the numerous imitations.
SNosann
SIMPLE
fg
DYES
6d. per Bottle.
ARE THE BEST
by Chemists, Stationers, Storekeepers,
Oilmen, &c.
: : "
S BECAUSE THEY ARE LIQUID!
WILL NOT SPOIL ANYTHING-! 1
NO BOTHER-NO MESS ! !!
DANIEL JUDSON & SON (LIMITED), London and New York.
Henry Lancaster,
/' m/Jtr. »r/KT
jf’+SWWM* /*ASJV7£>.
i-
> f>Q/u
gSty™*!*
v^ther
Mil VtillllHllHlHHll
OT WATER
ID iiiinimnai
cylinder!
W»«
CO
•Rough
smoNc jroe t twtc
broken
FOR MANY YEARS
engaged in the
Leading Workshops
op England,
Lately 5 years with
Hudson Bros,,
Manufacturer of
WROUGHT IRON
TANKS & CISTERNS,
of any size or shape,
for squatters, wool-
washers, and station-
owners.
Horse and Cattle
Troughs,
of every description,
wrought-iron pipes, s. s.
funnels, ventilators,
&c., See.
Estimates cheerfully given.
REDUCED PRICE LISTS FURNISHED ON APPLICATION.
Q 5 (jeorge STREET, WEST, near Railway Station.
O RGANB !
sole
agents for the
SMITH.
BRUCE & MASSEY,
FI-A.3NTOS,
ORGANS, MUSIC.
197 Pitt -st., Sydney.
PILLS,
% f a ® AT LIVER REMEDY.
S t%^i(^ o J )an( Lelion, and free from the
j or mineral substance,
vJr lcine °f the nineteenth cen-
t6c(jL t most effective ; they can be
' ■ ended . being a carefully pre-
’ a,KI the result of practical ex-
t hiy p v ® rc omo the worst form of
4 J" 0 heai< r ’ ( tomac b> Head and Kidneys.
r tlief, that they have not afforded
STREET.
_ 3J
2 I
m >
3r
< r-
S Co*
TRADE MARK—“ TONIC NERVINE ”
A SAFE OKRTAIN, and SPEEDY CURE for Nervous
Wd General Debility, and all complaints that spring from
lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia, 'Toothache, Nervousness
Indigestion, Loss of Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and
Kidney Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished Blood
Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power, &c. By its ton*
and soothing effects it at once removes all craving fm
Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous and other nowerfiif
vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S TONIC
whes and gives vigor to the whole system. Prioe 4s 6d
KwrfzssK^“ SHA,j ' ™oTH ER rsM
TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
HE ORIGINAL
m
WAUGH'S
OBTAINED a
FIRST CLASS AWARD*
O-R I
--it -. . # ;;; : . { >- A*
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
/ *
ns
* v *v
af ; -
>PW
* ..
ISTHE BEST I NTH EWORLD! 1
NONE OTHER BUT '•
dsf
Manufactured byJamesChannon
Harbour S t Svoniy
Sold Sv All Crocersandsl’oreke«Ders
ARTI FtCIALTE ETH
rOMPLETEsrr
*)
A
MARSHALL BRO:
DENTISTS
133 ELIZABETH ST
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
MITTAGONG.
First-class Accommodation for Commercials.
PETER MURPHY, Proprietor.
Good Table and Reasonable Terms.
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
Her Majesty the Queen.
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales.
H. M. ) ,THE, ,KINGj,ON THE NETHERLANDS.
sumSIS
IK
ill?:
mi
Agents for New South Wales
yissaa jio hyzd am, kth
TRAPP & ELLES,
54 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
HV. (ESTABLISHED 1860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
iai | n tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &c., from the Sotuhern
Colonies or New Zealand, maybe made to Arthur
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
gdsf
=s£K
2.
g
THE MARSOAPIAL V/EW OF Hlftf
0
CO
o
O
60
/Vi
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguis Wilson’s Arne-
rican “Extra Toast” BISCUITS, For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and incompatible
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Sussex Street, Sydney.
in
SBSS
v'l
m
There’s a magic in the art, and a pleasure in it. too,
Just buy yourself a Camera, try what you can do ;
It’s not now what it was in the old collodion days,
It’s a harmless, healthy, cleanly, and economic way.
Photographic sets, including all requisites for the learner, the student or
the professional, oan be had at prices to suit requirements from ’
LICHTNER AND CO.,
Send far]
GENERAL PHOTO-STOCK IMPORTERS,
24 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
[Catalogues.
“BOOKS.” Any Book You Want.
BOOKS.”
■AJNTG-US <Sc ROBERTSON
H 2 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY. 9
Largo stock of new and second-hand Books. Price of any book on application. Books sent hv
mail to any part of Australia. y


THOMAS GAUNT,
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER & OPTIMA*
14
BOURKE STREET, \
MELBOURNE. /
339 & 341 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
-NEARLY OPPOSITE
POST OFPIO®'
Manufacturer of Turret Clocks, Prize Cups, Optical and Surveying Instruments, &c.
Gaunt’s Special Silver Hunting English Lever Watch, strong dust-proof cases, warranted a most correct and reliable lin
Post free on receipt of P. 0.0, for 6 guineas. A select stock of Gold and Diamond Jewellery.
PRICE LISTS FREE ON APPLICATION.
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR . -M
FRYS MALTED COCOA!
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
‘ AN ORDINARY CUR CONTAINS MORE ACTIVE PROPERTIES OP MALT THAN A PINT OP THE BEST ALE OR PORTER.”— Lancet.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing, Plumbing,
Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH,” “VALVE,” and “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters,
Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS,TAND"9 lACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Price on Application.
WOOD WORKING AND SAW MILL MACHINERY.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Are SOLE AGENTS for
T_ Pay dz> Co., Cl23.clrx3n.a,ti
And carry a Large Stock of their Celebrated Machines.
EVERY REQUISITE FOR WOOD-WORKING AND SAW-MILLING IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogues and Prices.
Offices and Stores: 17 PITT STREET, Circular Quay, Sydney
i=_ is.
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPIRITS,
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just oompleted extensive additions to his WHOLESALE and
RETAIL BOTTLE DEPARTMENT, which is now replete with a well-assorted Stock of the Best Brands of Wines’
and Spirits, personally selected by the proprietor.
He can therefore confidently recommend the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, hopes to merit the patronage
which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
ENGLISH ALES and STOUT, OF ALL BRANDS, ONE SHILLING EACH PER QUART.
THE FINEST BRANDS OF WHISKY, BRANDIES, PORTS, SHERRIES, CLARETS, and CHAMPAGNE, at the
Lowest Priees obtainable in Sydney.
m * A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU. SPECIAL PRICES FOR CASES OF THE ABOVE.
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, all returns being allowed for
Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at any Country Railway Station or wharf Free of
Charge.
P. R. Larkin wishes to call your attention to his famous ,£3 Gases, containing the following :
3 Bottles BRANDY
1 Bottle JAMAICA RUM
1 Bottle PORT WINE
3 Bottles WHISKY
1 Bottle WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
1 Bottle SHERRY WINE
Total 18.
? Bottles LOWNDES’ RUM
1 Bottle OLD TOM
articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Oases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and hav® given perfect satis-
faction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, please make P. O. Order payable at th :Haymarket Post Offio*.
KINDLY NOTE THE ADDRESS:
P. R, LARKIN, Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant and Importer,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL, GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS, HAYMAKET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 778 and 780 George-street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
LLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
SCHOTT 1 <3z C O
* V
MUSIC SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY THE g ,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNB% /
Also, at LONDON, MAYENCE, PARIS, and BRUSSELS.
LARGEST ‘STOCK IN THE COLONI® 8
(J. it. YOU JN (Jr S rrltl if J
COMMERCIAL HOTU
GrXJLGrOISr Gr.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION FOR TRAVELLER^
LEA &PERRINS'
I
SAUC
M V peSHIN-;
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCEST-
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public , Le&
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label on
bears their Signature thus —
without which no bottle of the original
SA UCE is genuine.
WO
Aeh 'B- M
Ask fo? LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, L& ‘ 1 gresst.
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester 7 tfer&j
Blackwell , London, &>c., &*c. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout tfE^f
* . gy&W'
Wholesale Agents: Montefiore, Joseph & Co.; David Cohen Sc c °"
9
o
\s*
9
st»
sdfgsdf
'ofd
'Shoe
252* Georf /}
S 1 ate jfienEe uncL JfaHe£}i£-'
OFFORD & CO.*S HA
CHEAPES' I ','
LIGHTEST, BEST, and
NEXT TO ROYAL HOT®L, and at 652 GEOBG®
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful flnisfti to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros. andE. Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge ; Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker.
j* BI'TIEKFIBIiBi Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
btrcet Redlern.
LI NE N GLOSS.
T. T. FODE'Nj& CO.,
" INDIA RUBBER DEPOT,
20 ERSKINK STREET,
Sydney,
For Every Description ot
INDIA RUBBER GOODS.
STOREY, NOBt®
ctionei S '
General Commission
CORAKI,
Try POGON 0 JjJ
roR -ofT^
MUSICAL I^“^/
The Largest Assortment 1
705 vj|?
price
Send for
rjIHE CLIMAX ° F
nT s#B^/
MO- .
LIME FRUIT J VXC
SOLD EVEB^2^
Vi g° r
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS.
Manufacturer of all kinds of JErated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
3 1 "and 33 l m HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the ONLY GOLD {MEDAL for JSrated and Mineral Waters ; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs, Lit
