

The Bulletin
PHIC MAY


ASK FOR COLONIAL-MADE
Wire
PROOF
p^DE
*7
\*\
PRDO
On
El '
ETTING!
BRAND.
Cheaper than Imported.
MANUFACTURED BY
JOHN LYSAGHT, Limtd.,
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SYDNEY.
McLEAN BROS., BIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
o
<5
6
IRONMONGERS
512
X
o
%
REG?
<*
:
Davis’ SewingjlacMne, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO PLATE!) ware, cutlery, tools,
GAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &C., &C,
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 and 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
FLEMING’S
RELIABLE
BUGGIES
FIRST GRADE
STYLE,
QUALITY,
and
FINISH.
Used by All the
Wi—fllnr Citizens.
NOT HOW CHEAP,
BUT HOW GOOD!
d
FLEMING’S
WASSONS
AND
Harness,
Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
—f'w IKI
Call and Inspect
2
nliiiiiuniitnnimi(iiinnnii)
' V
ANUFACTURER
1 1 n 111 II III)( mt 111111 111 1 1 111 n I »niTfii n
wasDClßiri
head Office & Factory. newtov/n
*
BRANCO. CEORCE S? SYDNEY
/ GoldfhSyri/p
j A/VO
Treacle
REE//VERS
CS'D
/ass (
J. M. ELLEROAMP, sa'SES
GLOVER, HOSIER, AND MEN’S MERCER,
AND IMPORTER OF
Ladies’ English and Foreign Boots and Shoes,
16 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BEST HOUSE IN THE COLONY FOR SHILLING SCARFS.
<6
«»>U>
*«rc
M‘CARTHT Sc 6OT
TOBACCO MERCHANTS,
669 George-street, Haymarket, Sydney.
tZT Depot for all Cameron Bros, and Co.’s renowned Tobaccos.
Importers of Havanna and Manilla Cigars. A large and superior assortment
of Meerschaum, Briar, and Clay Pipes.
Sole agents for the celebrated Buffalo Tobaccos, Cigars, and Cigarettes.
Manufacturers of Nonpareil Cigarettes. N.B. Trade parcels at Factory Prices.
0
A
CLD
C.
TTNIQUK FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
\_y Crispness distinguis Wilson’s Ame-
rican “Extra Toast” BISCUITS, For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and inoomparible
with coffee or cheese. | —y
. W ■
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Sussex Street, Sydney.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS, R. J. ALCOCK, G. C. CHALMERS, R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS, _
IRON, HARDWARE. AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS'
>
II
BRISC*
8 I
lasses
Importers of
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES WOOD-'WORKING MACHINERY
RAILWAY and other CONTRACTORS' PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS MINING
CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACRBUILDERS’ MATERIALS ’
SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES. Btc,
ghd
Ml,#4
fell
CW-IE--
DUCSONXSQNS
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY.
OUT SON A SONS-
OIXSO
CONQUEROR
on a sons ' -is
YANKEE
SIR ROGER-*
QIXSQN A SONS T
nailrod
oixson a sons _ vl
CHAMPION^
OIXSON A SONS AM*#* '**
CUT . In Tins
R.C.RUBYORIENTALMIXTUJf
CIGARETTE GOLD LEtfMf
*A month.'
0"
\
w
m
\e
Tramway LA# d
, HOWTEK
THE GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL,
CHARDOTTE-PRAC« AND GEORG E-STREET.
K. HANNEY’S
1 DOZEN CASE
OK
ASSORTED
WIRES, SPIRITS, and MALT LIQUORS,
DELIVERED ANY PART OF CITY FREE.
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer.
Order the ldoz. case as you please from the list of
low prices as under, viz. :
Robertson’s Walker or Royal Blend
Scotch Whiskies 4a per bottle.
Dun villa's Shamrock and Burke’s
XXX Irish Whiskies
Brian Boru Whisky...
Hennessy’s * Cognag
la
3a
5a
6a
4s.
4a
4a
Is. 6d. & 2s. 6d.
Square Gin
Jamaica Rum
Red Heart d 0...
Flasks Brandy and Whiskies
English Ales and Stout, best brands Is.
or 11s 6d. per dozen
Port Wine, for connoisseurs and
Invalids 6s.
Port Wine and Sherry, from ... 2a
Best brands WTiisky or Brandy
from 20a per gallon.
£3 CASE ALSO A SPECIALITY.
Marks’s Ale, Porter, and Lager Beer.
Certificate of merit of the first-claae and silver medal
awarded at the Calcutta Exhibition, and patronised by his
Excellency the Governor’s household, 6d. per bottle. AM
ftrst-olass Goods. One trial will prove the fact. Bottle De-
partment of the GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL, Corner
and Charlotte-place. Orders by post solicited.
Mrs. Hanney attends personally on lady patrons.
QtJ*-
fgh
MACHINERY:
LAND
ANO
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
STOCKS
LARGE
desicns
NEWEST
NISH
HIGHEST
COST
LOWEST
(K** 8 *
SI?
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS, LAUNCH^*
ROBERT cqOPgWggj
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET.
dnim


The Bulletin
Vnl 7—No. A 52
SATURDAY, OCTOBER SO, 1886.
Prlco.. ffct.
That Yellow Pup.
PARKES (sol.): “POOR LITTLE TOBY! POOR LITTLE DEVIL! YOU WERE QUITE A
DIFFERENT DOG BEFORE THEY TIED THAT CURSED KETTLE TO YOUR TAIL.


THE BULLETIN.
i*uiiLisitfcn ovf i; a week,
At 21 Ritt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Psjfpble in Advance.)
Per annum .. .... .. XI Os. od.
Half-yearly .. ..i* .. 0 12s. Od.
Quarterly .. V„ ii .. ’■ . 0 6s. 6d.
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters payable
to V* ’■
J. M. HARDL\G,
tb whom all orders for the paper, advertisements, and remit-
tances should be addressed.
Postage-stamps of any Australian colony aooepted for
Amounts under £1
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
Correspondence column all contributions submitted—whether
in the form Of political, social, or other articles, verse, short
tales or sketches, paragraphs, letters, or newspaper-clippings.
All communications Will be regarded as strictly cofidential.
Tlte Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS. when the
Addre&hi specifiedtand stamps are enclosed. But we desire
MSS, to distinctly understand that we are not
fesponsible for the preservation or transmission of such
MSS.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Dy sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling IN advance —which you may pay by Post Office
Order, One-pound Note, or stamps of any Australian colony
-you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
Week for a year.
Now, by special arrangements, we are enabled- to make the
following offer, open to all subscribing direct to this office,
between September 1 and December 31, 1886.
Anyone sending the cash- will
be entitled to a bonus of twenty shillings. Postmasters and
other agente will understand that we will send XI to anyone
forwarding us six prepaid yearly subscriptions;* ■'
This offer is not open to residents Of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by ma.il, is entirely in
the hands of our carriers, with whom wo &O not wish to inter-
fere. • i : ‘
IMPORTANT.
The publisher will consider it a favour if any reader
of The Bulletin will forward him the name and
address of any newsdealer who is not selling this paper.
BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1886.
The Queen’s Jubilee.
To the Jews must be credited the institution
of the jubilee. The world’s indebtedness to
this ancient people has been, and still is,
very great. Not to Imperial Rome itself do
the nations owe so much gratitude—and
money—as to the ingenious race whose
enterprise in book-making alone, beginning
with the Pentateuch, has done so much to
instruct and ravish mankind. But there is
an essential difference between the old
method of jubilation as once carried out
every fiftieth year by the chosen salt in dis-
tant Palestine, and the new as adopted by
Britons when their monarchs are considerate
enough to occupy the throne during half a
century. Under the former plan, slaves
were set free and alienated land reverted
to its original owners. Under the latter,
both toilers and soil remain much as they
were.
** . *
It is just 49 years since the “ Sailor King ”
dropped the reins of Government into his
niece’s hands and descended to join his
lamented predecessors. As a monarch he
was not an entire success. The necessity
for signing the great Reform Bill distressed
him and caused him to use language charac-
terised by vigour rather than polish. Owing
probably to his early training, his choice of
words on most state occasions was limited
and infelicitous. At his first Council he
evinced commendable grief for his brother
George's death, but marred the effect a
little by remarking, “ This is a damned bad
pen.” Mrs. Jordan, who bore him nine
children, he allowed to starve in a strange
land. It is, however,, but fair to say that he
behaved well towards his little ones—the
Fitzclarences and generously billeted
them on the nation, from which they have
drawn just a quarter of a million of money
since their father’s death. But his smartest
exploit was done hr conjunction with his
brothers, Wales and York, years pre-
viously. All were in debt—it is a royal
privilege—and so issued joint-and-several
bonds for large sums at high interest. Many
of these were taken up in France, between
which country and England war was then
raging. The holder having crossed the
Channel to press their claims, were seized
under the Alien Act, and sent home only to
be pounced upon when they got there and
beheaded at Paris for corresponding with the
enemy. There tens some pleasure in being
an English Royal Duke 90 years ago.
* * *
A few months since, our beloved Queen
having entered on the fiftieth year of her
reign, the Mayor of Sydney embraced the
happy idea of gathering around him all the
aldermen and chief magistrates of Austra-
lasian cities to rejoice befittingly. The con-
ception was pleasant, and its success entire.
For they have come and gone, have intro-
duced among us many novelties appertaining
to municipal government, and, doubtless,
made themselves acquainted with new
methods to elaborate and," perhaps, adopt in
their distant home 3. .At first there was
some slight uneasiness as to whether the be-
ginning or tho end or the fiftieth year was
the more appropriate period for carousing,
but in a letter to the press Mayor Young
produced precedents to prove that any time
between the forty-ninth and fiftieth years
would do. Only three English sovereigns,
it appears, have completed the half-century
in office. They were Henry 111., Edward
111., arid George ill. Ori each occasion
their subjects rejoiced ,ri|nd were glad. Why
they did so we shall '\mdeavour to show.
Henry IT 1., the son of John, took early to
the regal business. As a boy he came to the
throne in 1216, and, except for a severe cor-
rection administered to him in 1205 by
Slmon be Montfort, the founder of the
House of Commons, held it pretty firmly
till 1272, when death called upon him and
demanded an audience. He was known as
cor cereum regis, or “ royal wax heart,” to some
of his subjects, arid as “the bitter king ” to
others. He rode like a tailor, bragged like a
Parolees, and fought like a Falstaff. He
permitted his attendant swash-bucklers to
quarter themselves on his long-suffering
subjects, to eat them out of house and home,
and to cut their throats if they objected. In
the doggerel of the day he was described as
“ the enemy of the whole realm, of the
Church, and of God.” His father was the
champion scoundrel of Christendom. “Foul
as it is,” says an old chronicler, “ hell
itself is defiled by the fouler presence of
John.” This same John it was who in his
rage for having been forced to sign “ Magna
Charta,” rolled on the ground “ gnawing
sticks and straw.” And dearly he made the
English pay for their Charter, for with the
• sweepings of Continental brothels at his
back he marched up and down the land
slaying all who would say him nay. Henry,
for whom our first' jubilee was held, was a
worthy son of the gentle John.
* * #
Edward 111. also began betimes at 14,
and having thrown France into confusion
and half-depopulated Scotland, became the
puppet of a dirty baggage whp, on his death,
stripped the body and decamped. As for
our present ruler’s grandfather :
“ George the First was reckoned vile —viler George
the Second ;
And what mortal ever heard any good of George
the Third?”
If James IT. “threw away three kingdoms
for a mass,” the narrow-minded, obstinate
George, in his published wantonness, jet-
tisoned .the grandest heritage a nation ever
possessed. To keep it company he sent
overboard 50,000 brave men, £140,000,000,
and a large slice of the national honour.
Like James 1., he was the bitter foe of all
talent. But for his recurring attacks of
lunacy he would either have lost his throne
—perhaps his head—or have made England
as absolute a monarchy as Russia. It was
the success of the Americans that saved
England. Had the King unfortunately
won, as was very nearly the case more than
once, some of the most gifted Englishmen
would have quickly found, as their fathers
did under the insensate Stuarts, that life
within the four seas was too full of danger
to be agreeable. In Buckle’s great work
the curious reader can obtain information
which may, perhaps, surprise him con-
cerning the direction towards which Great
Britain was drifting when the clear cry of
defiance was sent across the Atlantic.
Turning from the historian’s account of the
advances made towards Cmsarism by the
half-witted Guelph, to Mayor Young’s
statement of the “ loyalty and joy” which
bubbled once in 1800, thejast jubilee year,
we stand amazed at the staunch Islanders’
marvellous servility —at the strange longing
of that strangest of peoples, the Biitish, to
kiss the foot that kicks it. In one sense, of
course, it was as well that our grandfathers
were filled with gladness when told that
their dull ruler had chastened them for
forty-nine years. It diverted their minds
from the fact that they had little with which
to fill their stomachs.
* * *
The Mayors camo. They came clothed in
their robes of office, sparkling and scin-
tillating in the hour of of their pride.
To find a procession equalling in irridescence
that which zigzagged towards the Sydney
Town Hall a couple of weeks ago to
thank the Creator for having endowed
the reigning sovereign with a hearty
appetite and a sound digestion, we must go
back to the world’s morning twilight and
observe that droll crowd streaming out of
the stranded vessel yonder, and pouring
down the mountain side. It is the Ark they
are leaving, and the wear and tear of clothes
duririg their long confinement has given fine
scope to the play of fancy in the matter of
dress. Motley is the prevailing garb, with
here and there a bold innovation in sheen of
colours where the requirements of propriety
demanded uncompromising patches. Beside
some of those who the other day came among
us to jubilate, Solo Aon at the summit of his
glory was but an unkempt mendicant. No
combination of shades was wanting, no
originally of design absent. The wayward-
ness displayed in hats alone invited and held
the public attention. Looking at those long
lines of happy officials it was impossible to
help feeling a glow of pride in one’s adopted
land, a calm conviction that at last the future
of Australia was safe. Used as our beloved
Queen is to dainty pageantry, it is not too
much to say that had she looked in upon her af-
fectionate antipodean children the other day
the sight would have convinced her that the
spirit that dictates the Court Circular
lives and flourishes among us also.
♦ * *
The hundred and ten millions composing
the English-speaking people are settling
down into two great divisions—British and
American—and three sub-divisions, Cana-
dian, South African, and Australian. Al-
though the latter adopt the political patterns
of their Columbian cousins, they still yearn
for the social usages and sartorial eccentri-
cities of the little North Atlantic Islands.
Drop a Briton down beside a Cooper’s Creek
waterhole where he can run up a bark hut to
sell bad food openly, and bad drink pri-
vately. No sooner does- he secure a com-
petence by the ingenious devices known
under the generic name of ‘ ‘ lambing-down, ”
than an inexpressible longing seizes him to
wear silk stockings, pumps and knee-
breeches, a refulgent robe, and a hat of
abnormal proportions and curious design.
Nor does his ambition stop there. Not con-
tent to emulate, a Mayfair serving-man in
shimmer, he sighs for some titular distinction
—some alphabetical prefix or affix to distin-
guish him from his obscure neighbours. This
will account for a little of the luminosity
which dazzled admiring citizens at Mayor
Young’s late reception. One might travel
from St. Petersburg to Madrid, from Maine
to Nevada, without meeting such a prismatic
display. What wonder that the hearts,
throbbing under such resplendence, beat
wild with the desire for a closer union with
the mother country, for the health of the
august lady whose wisdom and profuseness
were proverbial, and for the creation of
loyal knights to stem the muddy tide of
Democracy and teach the lower classes their
places ? This brings us to the speeches.
'"* * *
Staunch little Tasmania sent a representa-
tive in ruffles and sword, lace and velvet, to
tell of her devotion. As he reached the
platform it was felt that the seventeenth
century greeted tho nineteenth. A titter
went round. The innate vulgarity of some
of our so-called “leading” citizens is de-
plorable. Contemplating with calm scorn
the crowd of middle-aged females whence
the unseemly mirth seemed to proceed, the
Mayor of Hobart said “he was proud to be
able to say that no more loyal colony than
Tasmania existed in the British dominions.”
This assurance was received with acclaim.
It restored confidence and quite dispelled
the whispered apprehension that Tasmania
was indifferent. Men breathed more freely,
looked in each others’ faces and smile d as
they felt that the Empire was safer. But
was it wise to keep tho public mind so long
strained ? The question may appear ungener-
ous now that all fears are at rest, but—to
continue. Bowing with exceptional grace,
Adelaide’s Magistrate observed : “In South
Australia they were endeavouring to do what
they could to bi’ing the colony prominently
before not only Australia but the whole
world.” This speech, too, secured approval.
For in view of the recent bank and penal
records of that colony it could not be denied
that the Adelaide people were on the right
track and only required to persevere in order
to reach notoriety. The Mayor of Welling-
ton (N.Z.), by touching on the sacrifices en-
tailed on those matrons whose husbands
serve the State, caused much anxiety, but
subsequently restored serenity by adopting a
more cheerful vein. He remarked :
“In the pursuance of their municipal duties
they very often had to neglect their wives and
keep them up late at night waiting their return
from meetings. . . . The Queen’s reign itself
had been at once the most glorious and happy and
prosperous that, so far as he could learn, modern
civilisation had ever witnessed. They had all
great reason to be proud indeed of their relation-
ship with the vast Empire over which their
sovereign ruled with so much goodness and
ability.”
It is doubtful what course would be best for
ladies to follow whose husbands are liable to
stay out at night. We have a natural re-
pugnance to offering advice in a question of
such delicacy. In the hands of a robust
woman we have known an umbrella to do
good. Speaking generally, however, the
plan of keeping spirits in the house is worth
a trial.
* * *
We have left the Mayors of Sydney and
Melbourne to the last. Mr. Young asserted
“ they were proud of their Imperial relation-
ship . . . They gave assurances of this
constant loyalty and affection to the Crown
and Royal family. ” Mr. Stewart (Melb.)
said :
“ Love and reverence for the person of their
Queen, loyalty to her throne . . . and an
underlying determination to remain an integral
portion of that empire were the characteristics
not of any one but of all tho colonies of Austra-
lasia. If anything could give Her Majesty
pleasure on the approach of her jubilee year it
must be the satisfaction of looking out on her far-
off subjects .' . , a free, a happy, arid a loyal
people, under her wise .and beneficent reign.”
It is difficult to read such opinions with-
out a smile compounded of pity and
derision. They are the opinions not
of Australians but of Englishmen, and
will no more represent the views of
a federated Australia of ten or twenty
millions than the loyal American assurances
of 1755 resembled those of twenty years later.
When this continent becomes sufficiently
populous its “undying determination” will
be not to be a province of an em-
pire but an empire itself—to be com-
plete mistress of its own destinies, and
brook no interference from outsiders.
When that time arrives the answers to such
speeches as those delivered by Mayors.
Stewart and Young would probably be
discovered in the nearest horse-pond. The
English who have to pay a million a year to
support a number of useless foreigners in
idleness are beginning to i ntertain views
upon Monaichy quite different to those of
Anglo-Australians who have to pay nothing.
From what wo know of the (IUELPHS and
their predilections it is by no means
improbable that the submergence of
Australia by a tidal wavo would causa 1
concern at Windsor Castle than a birth in h
Battenberg family or a death in the Bemev
The fact is the world is learning or has learnt
the lesson that hereditary- rule is not alonl
foolish, but vic’ious. -So well has V01 ,!? e
Australia taken this to fieart that the eft;,!! 8
of the Youngs and Stewarts of society
mteiest it in dull persons whom the battle
dore of circumstances on throne!
evokes laughter instead of'applause.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Political Gomorrah.
The Parliament of New South Wales is prorogued
What does the expression mean to those who ar«
conversant with the shameful history of til
session—-the most disgraceful in the record of
Australian Parliaments ? It means that a lot of
hopeless boozers have staggercd'for a season from
the liquor-room of the Assembly to rant and raw
and soak and swill in places where their swinish
orgie3 will not inspire newspaper paragraphs
headed, “Another Disgraceful Scene in the AS'
sembly” : it means that a herd of corrupt and
thievish libels on humanity will retire front the
public gaze for a time to work up huge jot>3 and
colossal swindles hereafter to be masked and
passed through the House : it means that a scoro
or so of public plunderers will depart for a space
to revel with the proceeds of successful frauds
already carried through to the end : it means that
a gang of tricksters, whose political liie is sus-
tained only by the fo’/.l garbage floated down by
the waters of sectarian tiit'e, wilt retire to
plot and plan insidious assaults on the ad-
herents of another faith : and, lastly, it means
that a few honest, but, in the main, in-
capable, men will be released for a time irom
compulsory companionship with sharpers, bigots
hypocrites and scoundrels. It is only with men
of the last class that we can deal seriatim. To
allude to a single political thief by name would
simply be to add a profitable libel suit to his as-
sets, therefore we are restricted in'’ our personal
criticism to the honest men of the Assembly. And
they are a choice collectively, no
meaner, weaker, or more incapable Ministers ever
sat than those in the present Cabinet. Sir
Patrick Jennings’own performance during the
season is comprised in a dreary record of weak
vacillation and still-born proposals, and his repu-
tation for veracity has failed to endure the con-
tinual assaults made against it by his own con-
flicting and contradictory statements. Mr. Dibbs,
as lieutenant to Sir Patrick, is worthy of what
honour he can get out of the billet, just as Sir
Patrick is entitled to all the honour obtainable
from the services of such a lieutenant
And over the rest of the Ministerial crowd the
shadows of past sins and weaknesses darkly falls.
There is Mr. Lyne, chiefly notorious for his
brawl with the burly Clarke ; Mr. Fletcher.
whose unseemly occupancy of the portfolio of
Mines while ho continues to be largely interested
in mining, has long been a political scandal ; Mr.
Corel and w-hose physical vigour has been some-
what impaired by dyspepsia and lumbago ; Dr.
Ren wick, whose foolish boast that he would con-
trol Mr. Dibbs seems have gone the way of all
brag ; and Mr. Garvan,; whose wonted
force and ability have been conspicuously absent
since he descended to oftice —thfese men all seeming
to have a natural affinity—the affinity of incapa-
city, and to be capable colleagues although
miserably incapable Ministers. And some of
their supporters are like unto tliem. Milbcrn.
Creek Baker, once kicked out from the House-
already ; Vacation Coonan, just returned fromi
a starring tour in the provinces ; H. 11. Brown,.
whose support has been most noticed since-
his partner landed in a little alleged forgery
trouble ; Andrew Lysaght, whose offence in.
striking Mr. Gibbes would be more easily pardoned,
if he had hit him harder; and Joseph Abbott,.
whose timeserving tactics seem to argue against
the existence of his alleged ability—these are
among the supporters of the Jennings Ministry..
Yet mean and “multy” as his crowd is, it i s
difficult to sec what would be gained by kicking,
them out, for their probable successors would be,
meaner and “multier” still. Wisdom, Garrett,.
Davies, Neild, Henson, would be among the-
probable successors, and it is difficult to imagine
the possibility of a crowd polideally, lower than
these men. It is hard to see how deliverance-
from her present miserable position can come to-
New South Wales. There are only two grounds,
for hope : one, that a political Cromwell may,
arise from among the present members ; the other,-
that the electors, profiting by the iesyn they have*
been taught by the recent session, may taka an,
early opportunity of preventing drunkards,,
hypocrites, swindlers, log-rollers, and vote-thieves,
from again entering the House.
A Cleric on Divorce.
Canon Selwyn, in a letter to the S." M. Herald.
lias added his mite to that pyramid of stupidity,
selfishness, hypocrisy and prejudice which has
been reared by the opponents of Sir Alfred
Stephen’s Divorce Bill. It is hardly necesscaryto
say that the Canon argues on Scriptural grounds
alone —no cleric ever does otherwise, lie P u *- S
forward one solitary text in support of his views
and then sits down as contentedly on top of his text
as a spaniel on a dustheap, convinced, apparently,
that he has crushed his enemies as the Philistines
were crushed by the jawbone of old. “ Whoso-
ever marrieth her that is put away committeth
adultery,” says this stern ecclesiastic, and on
the strength of these words he would refuse aid or
sympalhy to the woman who finds herself wedded
to a brutal, drunken tyrant; or, if the law comes to
her relief, would brand her as a pariah, and place
her outside the pale of womanhood. The Bible,
according to Shepherd Selwyn, is sufficient
authority for this monstrous injustice because its
decrees are just throughput; yet strangely enough
the verse on which ho lelies contains no command-
ment forbidding the divorced man to marry
again. . In most cases he is the offender, and yet
so far as can be gathered fr&m the gospel accord'
ing to Selwyn he may makea woman’s liie a
upon earth, then.force her to seek refuge in the
Divorce Court, and afterwards leave her with a
lifelong curse upon her head —a curse which
as absolutely prevents her from again becoming
a wi e as if she were a leper or a condemn 6
murderess, while he may choose another partne
and consign her to the same ruin without violat-
ing tho morul law. The “Bible, as expounded by
bishops and clergy, becomes the invariable
weapon of the strong against the weak; it 1
made the organ and advocate of the brute, tfi
drunkard, the wifo-beater, and the wife-murde!er,
and meanwhile the sleek divines who seeming f
cither know not or care nor, for the daily, hourly
miseriesof their unhappy sisters, sit in their coinf o',
able draw ing-rooms and groan out“ It is the will


the Loard.” But, the people of Australia have
become weary of seeing the perpetual cruelties
which are committed under the auspices of such
scripture as this ; they fail to see Why the woman
who has been mated with a monster should suffer
perpetual exclusion from domestic life, not
because of the wrongs she has done,.but Because
of the wrongs she has suffered; and if this
Canon and the howlers of his tribe maintain that
such atrocious brutality is based on Scripture law
so much the worse for the Scripture and for th-an.
They are paid high salaries, and sit ;in. h gh
places that they may expound God's law, and
when they thick-headediy exert themselves
iu the direction of praying that their
Gon is a . monster and his la's?'—a -code
0 t outrageous, unreasoning,
dtiing ilie Devil’s work, and doing it well. The
question of divorce will be settled in accordance
with the dicta! es of reason, and whether
Canon Selwyn argues from the Bible, the Koran,
or the Talmud, the result will be the same. His ver-
sion of the Sc ip' ure might bo valued a Tittle, m ire
highly if the clergy in general would obey an.ji.her
junction which says, “ Sell all that thou hast, and
give,o the poor,” but the peculiarity of mmy a
modern parson is that he hunts up all the texts
which will help to make life a burden to o; hers,
and cares not one solitary swear fur those which
promise to make things disagreeable for his holy
self. Canon Selwyn, by the way, omits to mention
that divorce has already been sanctioned in Aus-
tralia ; that divorced men and women do marry
again ; and that there can be found clergymen
who grab with a comprehensive claw the
fees which these marriages bring, thus selling
their gospel and their consciences for a £5 note.
And, judging from what we have seen of the
latter they are uncommonly dear at the price.
4l
More Pence.
The Melbourne Argus is troubled about the
contributions to the Imperial Institute —the pro-
posed contributions to the proposed institute —for
it should be remembered that the whole affair is
as yet In the realms of conjecture. .Nothing has
been done—it may be, nothing ever will be done—
for' the Institute has been hooked on to the
Jubilee, and the Jubilee being altogether an affair
ofpersonal attachment to the Queen (quite apart
from reasonable loyalty to the throne), the
contributions will be, as the Argus admits and
insists, the measure of the attachment of the con-
tributors to that distinguished and venerable lady.
It is only a penny a head, moans the Argus,'
after figuring out the proposed contributions of
some of the colonies. Don’t you care more than
a penny a head for the Queen ? In answer, and
with a multitude of whose companionship we are
by no means ashamed, our reply is—No, we don’t
care a penny, or the sixteenth part of a
penny for the Queen; we should consider
ourselves guilty of. unquestionable wrong if we
expended The least portion of our poor substance
in such a way. For it is a wrong way and a
foolish way—it is turning even the ancient order
topsy-turvy. The old way, in colonial phrase,
was for the King to ‘‘ shout.” llis dad should
“shout” for the people when he was born, he
should “ shout” himself when he put the old man
underground, and if he had the marvellous luck
to keep head on shoulders and crown on head
for fifty years he should get behind the bar and
S3i ve out drinks to all hands while the liquor held.
But in these degenerate days the Crown remains,
and all the fine old hospitable duties of the Crown
seem to have passed away. Her Majesty does not
propose to “ shout ” at all, and we must “shout” an
institute for her to perpetuate her name and
generation, or at least tack thorn on for a little
longer to the disintegrating fabric of the empire.
How new and yet how rotten is the notion, how
mean, how characteristic, how Guelph ic,
- how true to the house of Coburg, to the
,poor Dutch blood just dashed with Stuart
licentiousness, but lacking the faintest
symptom of its broad generosity, its kingly grace !
>Boes Her Majesty deserve a jubilee ? Does she de-
serve to broaden a little the foundations of her
own Imperial institution, then let her look a little
° fulfilment of the duties of her station,
vhat is the duty of the mother of the people cele-
rating her last great jubilee? What of the richest
woman in Europe rendering thanks for prolonged
enjoynuntof her wealth? Is it not to see that hung* r
and cold are unknown, that every child is laughing
A a i!° y ’ and cvery woman smiling with delight ?
ad how, when the last tick of twelve announces
on the last day of December next the opening of the
in h?° year in wl 'ich Victoria became Regina
the kingdom which has since become an
mpire, if tjic roofs of all her crowded cities,
r starving hamlets were lifted ; if the hunger,
snHs S<l i la^or ’ le compulsory immorality were
stn 6 r ex P° se d, the millions of paupers and
hp^?hngS , the bare cupboards, the fireless
comfortless, joyless, hopeless lives-
bmo :’. n °t a sufficient work be discovered in
the foundations of the Imperial
w u t Uons which now exist, without adding more
gfit to the structure which already topples?
ht-n?- h en ? e > no ! There are neither pence nor
ithou hi the world for more Imperial institutes,
tthfivA • ? r^g ht and righteous appeal were made
tthp « ITllg ht be a few pounds forthcoming to heal
or be° re 3. ame horate tlio woes which, Respite
ua U3e °f the curse and canker of Imperialism
openly and frequently exist.
4
„ Such is Fame !
iiA r IR V Wl 'hcs us a long letter in reThe Kendall
siaN-°, r - la * *f un( h The Bulletin is not enthu-
al(-in ’"his matter. The fund has been helped
ol a GW P e °P^ e who understand something
othpi- Iat i^ ENDALL has written and by several
twoi 3 a- -° don’t. Among the latter are one or
own ? IVa \ ua^s who are intent on painting their
bard’s r ertisements 011 the railings around the
they s Loni,i Tone, and who don’t care, so long as
is own Purposes, whether Kendall
r uck nf 1 k a °h to a dead level with the common
nauvLf e t funct hnaves-the knaves who leave
jtiryo he remembered by save a marble per-
°f f an ’ e d on stone paid for with the proceeds
should insolvency. Kendall’s name
fositv ? V 5O usec * to advertise the genteel gene-
tities htrLi • c hHured literary taste of shoppy nonen-
honatin i- n ® tor notice, with cash, on published
Poet. p l3ts ’ °ver the stilled heart of the dead
aotbinp. 11 these days a public monument means
Pectins/’ 01 ? 83 ' . -Amy half-educated lawyer, ex-
theft for -1 , and guilty of every species of
bribes w hich the law has no name, who sub-
c°\lriCj, . one y to the building of a church or a
a rran&p,i lain^or ma y have a public memorial
f a som ething to look clean to the un
Whether tol ' res P ec table relatives to swear by,
kythe dn or a °k the poet's grave bo now disturbed
from a m down on it of a cartload of bricks
t°r it W i„ n r enta l mason s doesn't much matter,
Pientg of p , reiner ubered long after the monu-
®erved a o !^? ren ti o uaHy virtuous mediocrities have
less inter n °i 6r l lUl P° sc a 3 road-metal. The bound-
in him ” f P a s< T ,ara Qng the man “ with something
oni the thing that waters the poet’s grog
or serves him a short-weight 4,1 quarter ” of tea
and ultimately dies C.M.G’d. and respected by all
who knew it, cannot, thank Heaven, be bridged
over by a public monument} that bald excuse for
advertising some series of small names and an
oration culled perchance from the brains of the
Kendalls.
A R9ligion of Ritual.
There is fu3s and fury among the Anglicans of
Sydney. Real religious zeal has been aroused, and
those of them wno'perchance were apathetic be-
fore have now been inspired with the desire of
making their voices heard in the councils of their
Church. From the Strange fierceness with which
the struggle, rages, from the vehemence with
which charges of deception and trickery are
bandied about, uninstructed onlookers would
think that some vitally important questions were
at issue ; .but yet after all the whole point is as to
whether a gaudy piece of upholstery, to be stuck
up somewhere in St. Andrew's Cathedral, should
or should not have some sculptured Ugure3 and
symbols upon its panels. It is, after all, merely a
question of church millinery which is now in-
volved, yet strangely enough such a contention is
the only thing powerful enough to rouse the reli-
gious bodies of to-day out of their apathy and
indifference. Men whose anxiety to keep any of the
commandments was never a subject of comment,
suddenly find that they cannot worship sincerely
while fellow-saints are tempted to the commission
of idolatry by the exhibition of ideal figures.
Others discover in these new ornaments a dis-
tinct advance towards the religion of Rome, while
supporters of the new church decorations aver
that the service i 3 incomplete uuless such things
are on view. Yet ih all this there is nothing mar-
vellous and nothing new. The religion of every
denomination has become degraded into a matter
of ritual and empty form. The Church of-Rome
differs'from the Anglican Church in points of
doctrine and points of ritual only : to alter the
ritual is to ’ alter the church. So the Phamees
differed from the Sadducees : they wrangled over-
points of doctrine, they hated each other because
of their different fashions of worship, hut the
members of either sect showed equal skill in the
oppression of the poor and weak, and in the rob-
bery by legal means of the ignorant and distressed.
Their faith was dogma, their worship fashion, and
their lives deserving of the compiehensive
denunciations they received from the Great
Teacher of the Gospel of Love. Yet in spite of
those denunciations, Pharisaism never died out.
It flourishes to-day with greater vigour than ever
it formerly possessed ; the old-time phylactery is
represented by the modern white-clioker, and the
Pharisee of this generation, heedless of the endless
opportunities for the application of the regenerat-
ing Gospel, is roused to action only by the plan of
a reredps, the length of a vestment, or the use of
a symbol. And yet there are still some guileless
people wlip wonder why the influence of modern
churches is not sufficient to banish vice, poverty,
and misery from the four corners of the land.
The wonder rather is that in spite of the shadow
of such alleged religions, virtue and happiness
should be capable of any enduring growth.
The Lord Mayor’s Show.
The London Socialists are going to “ demonstrate”
on Lord Mayor’s day, and announce their inten-
tion of joining in his lordship’s procession. The
police, it is cabled, have intimated to the Socialist
leaders that the latter will be held responsible
for any disorder which may ensue. The costly,
cumbrous, useless “ show ” of the Lord Mayor,
with its concomitant evening gorge at the Guild-
hall, costs thousands of pounds, the wasteful ex-
penditure of whichis, under present circumstances,
a crime that c ills aloud to God for vengeance.
Let the Socialists, say we, follow in the train of
vulgar magnificence—let gaunt penury and un-
employed hunger walk in the wake, and trample on
the heels of careless wealth and of selfish gluttony.
We have more than once seen the show of the
Lord Mayor of London, and know it to he a
spectacle which, though it may fascinate the truly
“ common ” herd, and satisfy the soul-cravings of
that bourgeoisie which is everywhere the bitterest
enemy of the workman, is as vulgar and as tawdry
as are the silken Mappings of the harlot. The Soci-
alist leaders can well afford to take all the responsi-
bility attendant on the institution of a comparison
between Gilded Apoplexy and Starving Labour.
+
The same old Policy-Suppression.
If one wants to find the drift of Sydney Herald
policy it is no use looking to tho leaders. The
only way is to find out what the paper suppresses.
By this means we have discovered that the organ
of Jefferis has now twisted round in favour of
the Jennings Ministry. Last Friday s issue gives
proof of this, for all answers to questions tending
to cast suspicion upon Ministers are carefully
omitted. These include the facts that JamkS
Beattie, formerly coachman to the Premier, has
been worked into a nice little billet of £l5O a year ;
that Mr. Lyne has recently furnished a bedroom
at the Works’ Office; that Mr. Vindin, said to be
brother-in-law to the very-much-relatived J. P.
Abbott, was paid £Bl7 salary and travelling ex-
penses in one year ; that Mr. C. J. Lyne, brother
of the Minister, has been ‘ temporarily ’ appointed
to a position worth £3OO a year ; and that Mr.
Sydney Dibbs, holder of a billet in the Customs,-
over which G. R. Dibbs presides, received <uinual.
increments of £lO and £2O to his salary on lstv
October, 1881, and Ist April, 1885, respectively. ’
As it happens, the strongest support that carT he
given to the Jennings Ministry is by suppression
of all record of what they say and do, and, there-
fore, the Herald in going so far on this policy of
smother is to be applauded for its unusual sue-cess
in achievement of its aims. Generally, Herald
advocacy means instant andeertain condemnation.
But the triumph obtained in this case must he
somewhat marred by the reflection that the cause
is. such that it can best, be .aided by a conspiracy of
silence.
♦ -
The Pastoral Land Sharks.
For acumen and covetousness the pastoral lessees
of New South Wales are a class unique and
unrivalled. When in years gone by they could
obtain leases of a whole county for a song, they
set up a prolonged howl for fixity of tenure, and
this in 1884'was conceded. Their leased areas
were divided. One-half was retained by the then
holder for a fixed term, tho other half was taken
by the State. Divested of one grievance the
squatters immediately got others; they com-
plained that the rents were too high, and that
they were allowed no compensation for improve-
ments. Then their acumen found scope. They
worked t up a mew-b'orn syynpathy with tho
labourers in the pastoral districts, and alleged
that if compensation were not allowed no improve-
ments would be effected, and distress of the
labourer must ensue. Then they got up a
gorgeous manifesto and advertised it in the
country papers. . And they obtained godd
lecturers and sent them forth to agitate. All
these means were effective. The advocacy of the
labourer s interest was dust in the eyes of many of
his class; the fat ad. in the provincial Press was a
profitable douceur, and the lecturers boosted
along the cause cleverly. The full result of all
this is, that a Bill has been read a second time in
the Assembly, and now stands postponed to next
session, framed to secure this tenant-right. Both
j astice and policy array themselves in opposition
to the demand. Iu the Western district whence
toe outcry comes the lessees have a tenure of
15 years, and improvements now effected will
have fully paid for themselves during the cur-
rency of the lease ; the lessee, therefore, who now
makes tanks and dams will have been recom-
pensed for his outlay, before he is called upon to
meet competitors for his tenancy. To exact
compensation—“ not more than the original cost
thereof,” as the Act cautiously provides—would be
to pay the lessee double his outlay, and justice can
never demand that. Andwithrega rdf o public policy
it is necessary to look to the certain effect of this
Amending Act. To the squatters it will simply
give a freehold of their runs. Aided by the
Banks, which already control millions of the best
acres of the colony, "improvements” will be
effected, not yet, but before the end of the term,
which will raise the cost of the run to an incoming
teuanttoanexorbitantandpiohibitive figure, so that
t-rin after term lessees will continue in possession
till they collectively grow strong enough and rich
enough to obtain the freehold in reality. And this
concession would extend indefinitely the system of
bribery which has ever obtained with regard to
the valuation of pastoral holdings. At the present
time “tip” in many districts, is unblushingly
given and as shamelessly accepted ; but with com-
pensation as proposed there would be double
bribery : the incoming and oatgoing tenants,
in dealing with a corrupt valuer (and the
percentage of such is distressingly great), would
each present their lii tie testimonials, and so the
devil of oorruption would rage with more
vehemence than he has even jet raged. These are
the main reasons why such compensation should
not be allowed. To pretend that it is similar to
tenant-right in England and Ireland is absurd.
Compensation is asked for there because the
tenants have not the power of obtaining return
for the outlay necessary for their occupancy:
here the case is decidedly otherwise. If the cost
of tanks and reservoirs is not covered by their
return within 15, or even 10 years, it must be that
they have been built, not of necessity, but as a
bar against competition when the run is again
.submitted for lease. Injustice and corruption,—
these would be the immediate and prolific fruits
of tenant-right in this instance; and these are
also sufficient reasons against its concession,
4
Plundering the Loan Funds
It was once a pleasant Action of Now South
Wales politics that loan money was all spent in
reproductive works. Since the introduction of
the Dibbs system that has all been changed, and
now the loans are plundered to make matters
easier for the Revenue Account. Thus,one of the
savings announced by Sir Patrick Jenntxgis was
£20,000 on the vote for Bathurst gaol; now,
months after, when the money has been spent, it
is discovered that this sum was taken from Loan
Account and that the boasted saving was a pure
Action —whether intentional or not we cannot say.
Other plans of retrenchment are possibly similar
in execution. Among these same loan items are
“ rolling stock, £580,000, railway stores, £300,000,”
sums which should certainly come out of railway
revenue. It is always the policy of the Minister
for the time being to make the railway Agures
show a good return, hut plundering the Loan
Fund to this extent for that purpose is nothing
short of political dishonesty. The additional rolling
stock Will depreciate in value every month, and
the stores can be consumed only once, therefore
the amounts should certainly have been debited
to working expenses. To charge them thus is as
unjustifiable as it would be to use loan monies in
payment of wages, and the railway returns for
this year must be utterly fallacious to the extent
of the votes thus improperly made. Of other
items on the list not one-half of the total sum can
be counted as reproductive in any sense of the
word. Gaols, bridges, and sewerage—these
absorb a very large proportion of the total, and
less than £1,000,000, one-third of the vote, can
ever be expected to return anything like the
amount of interest yeai’ly demanded in future.
Which means that a fresh burden of £lOO,OOO a
year has been added to the vast load which the
New South Wales taxpayer already has to bear.
At the Merchant Taylors’ banquet to the Rev. F.
F. Goe, Bishop-elect of Melbourne, the latter is
reported to have said that “the menacing aspect
of some of the European powers may render Eng-
land glad of help from the colonies, lie advo-
cated Imperial Federation.” Of course he did.
As we pointed out when this Bloomsbury Bishop
Arst condescended to show in Melbourne for £2OOO
a year, his sympathies ai e entirely English; and
if he can assist in degrading Australia to the
position of a province of the Empire he will cer-
tainly do so. Foreign governors, lords, bishops,
and parsons—these are the traitors to Australia.
It is about time the patriots of this continent arose
and staffed kicking with a stern determination
not to leave off until the last of the gang were
;d|fted across the wafer.
CORRESPONDENCE
“Lancer”: 607 men started in the historic
charge at Balaclava, Only some 168 came back, neverthe-
less the Australian country papers have mournfully an-
nounced the death of 16,717 of them during the last ten
years. J.H.R.” : Utterly impossibleto print your letter.
“Justice” : We don’t “forget that churcb-goingpeople
are supporting their churches all the year round,” nor do we
forget that if they were earnest in their religion they would
deem the dross which th£y now hoard so' greedily as a thing
of no account beside their great ideal. Tell us this,
“Justice”: Are there 10 church-going people in all
Australia who dispense more than. 10 per cent, of
their income (in the interests of their religion?
"JO Campbell” : Your assertion that no Christian has ever
asked for a divorce is arrant bosh, if you use the word
Christian in its popular sense. If, however, you mean " a
follower of Christ,” as distinguished from the alleged Chris-
tians of to-day, who only follow fashion, we can only say
that th®se genuine Christians are so scarce it is no wonder
that none of them have ever gone for the coveted rule nis
.... “E. A.E.” : Thanks. Will probably use in some shape...
Balmain : The man who changes his faith twice in a year
must be either very inquiring or very weak-minded
j “ H.F.C.”: Good story...." S.N.’fl Too sultry...." Thespis " :
(1) Miss Earthing, of Newcastle, was the lady whom Mr
Earley married. Bulletin Admirer” : Our advice is tel
steer clear of the London Missing Friends'" Agents and put
the case into the bauds of Air. Randolph Want, per medium of
Want and Johnson, solicitors, Sydney:.. .“J.B.J.”: The
only sound accusation yet brought against Mr. Norton, tile
N.o.W. Trades Delegate, is that he speaks good French;
Bismarck once said that an Englishman who. could speak
good Freach was always an exceedingly doubtful character.
The only real Englishman we have met who spoke French
like a native was a poet and a company-promoter....,
“Reader”: The statement must indeed be incorrect, for
the same “ Harold Grey” wrote next to nothing since before
last Christmas “W E C.” : Even if a Northern
member has a big share in a Fairfield'claim Which he wants
to float into a company, we ate not going'to say that he wired
to i our c ty for an invitation to the Ministers in order to help
his little fake a10ng...." Cayenne We are not Ab; Ito pub-
lish R “ W.G.W.”: Subject under treatment “Q.K.D.”:
You assume, because the exports of Victoria in 1885 were
£1,01)11,001) iess than those of New South Wales, that there-
fore Protection is utterly bad. But remember that N.S.W.
is nearly four times the are » of Victoria, and carries 27 001,000
more stnep. These two facts knock your post-hoe ergo propter
hoc argument back to its native region of sh imeiess inendac ,ty.
...“O. Tipple”: Puzzles us worse than a Chinese insolvent’s
edger would. Ia any case we could not deal with your
grievance, even if you were to prove th it you possessed so
unsaleable a property ..." Geo, Weiss": Wire to secretary
Technological Museum, Sydney.,.." P. Stewart"; You?
poem on Scotland deseryes a place beside the noblest of the
ballads written, in praise of the cheap sausages sold by the
late P. M’Uarroll. But your description of the Highlanders’
chief garment is epigrammatic and unique. You allude to it
as :
“The heart-warming tunic that waved round their knees.”
Yet say do you rea'ly mean.' "heart-warming?" or is that
merely a poetic metaphor? —"H vV.G.': Your "Auiunl
Grab ”is compound bosh. It is fitting, though, that such-a
poem should have a laughing-j ickass for its auoh— we mean
theme.,„“ M.G.”: Letters receive!, but sp tee not avail-
able.,. .“P,8.”: True or.not, it is a njagui(lsent libel
" Sickle”.: Only of local interest...." Aud flint ”: flood
matter. When a constable becomes so old as to be entitled
to a pension, and so rich as to be worth .233 )1, iie ought to
retire “ White Rose ” We have written a dozen tinges op
the subject. As you sty, Imperial Federation simply means
that a decaying kingdom would rejuvenate itself by sapping
the vitality of its young and vigorous colonies. Your theory
in the other matter is perfectly sound, but your remarks are
too brutally true for publicatim “R.R.”; Ye 3, that
glorious flag, alike the symbolof Orangeism and of smallpox,.
“ The Nyngan Reptile” : We deal with the matter in our own
way this week,..." Anglo-Australian”: Family quarrels are
beyond our sphere... “Jehu Dell”: Too. true for "a good
romance, not true enough for a political hit " Adonais” :
After dry-docking, we may be able to use your poem
Birds E/a” : If, a 3 you say, the editress of your local
paper is at deadly enmity with one-half of the girls of the
district, we will go all we are worth that they are the most
lovely of tha crowd. One lovely woman always hates her
compeers in beauty, and the rule applies even to editresses..
..“H.C.” (Uralla): May work it up....“ Ingoldsby ” ; We
notice that you spell “honestly” with two n’s. Successful
novelists usually prefer one n. However, send along a slab
of your MS.,. .“Oonachian" : Thanks “R.W.”: r J^ke
our advice—don’t start a paper. Found a church instead....
“Hard Graft”: Right you are.,Humanity” : We have
often written about such things .; Ae had something to say in
re the case quoted...,“ W. A.M,” (Brisbane): We really don’t
she why the murderer you mention should not be brought to
Brisbane; it is a very good place for a murderer. As for
there being no Government conveyance, we have landed at
Brisbane several times and there was never one sent to meet
as. Perhaps this was because we were not a murderer....
“A Reader” (Cloncurry): Got your drunken beak all right,
with thanks.
The piratical black flag hoisted by mur-
derer Caffrey on the cutter Sovereign of the Seas
was a piece of a satin dress belonging to his mate’s
paramour, Grace Graham.
An English paper fancies it has found the
“ climax of blasphemous snobbery ” :
“At Washington, the occupant-i of the pews behind tha
President are stated to have iefused the first communion
cup that was offered to them on a recent Sunday, as they de-
sired to wait for the one out of which Airs. Cleveland hid
partaken of the Sacrament."
New and highly flattering portraits of the
Prince of Wales and his spouse are to hand, and
our London contemporaries praise the artists who
have touched them up. The Princo is pleased to have
a suggestion of hair made on the top of his head
where none exisis and to have the ugly
prominence of his eyes and rotundity of his
stomach reduced, while the pretty Princess is
represented with rounded bust and features that
do not exist in the original. Wales is too plump
and his wife too thin, and so they have to be a
trifle particular as to the make, of their stays and
corsets.
A bit of Australian natural history— how
they catch cockatoos down Murrumbidgee way.
They wound a cockie and tie him down on his
back. Hi 3 yells soon attract all the cockies
within 50 miles, who come to his assistance.
They fly to him and walk about on his prostrate
carcass with a view of liberating him. Sooner or
later he catches hold of one with his feet, which
are ceaselessly clawing the air. There is not the
least fear of his letting go again, so the trapper
calmly walks up, releases the new captive and
ties him down on his back, so having two traps in
operation. This is repeated till all the cockies are
captured. It is an impressive sight when about
25 are tied down and about 100 fluttering over
them. With the feathers flying and the shrieks
and yells it is like a snowstorm in Hades.
Editor Bulletin. —Sir, —ln a recent
issue you refer to Mr. Kavanagh, formerly a
member of the Commons, stating that he was an
*' engaged, young man when he met with an acci-
dent necessitating the amputation of his four
limbs.” Allow me to state that the accident oc-
curredlong before Mr. Kavanagh’s engagement, in
fact long before he was born, for at his birth he
was found to be minus his four limbs, or, rather,
the greater part of them. When I met him in ’63
he had been many years married, and had* a
family of sor 6 children. One stump of his arm
(the left, I think) was about six inches, the other
about 3 inches, long, and these he used with great
effect. A bold rider after hounds, (until he gave
up the chase upon the death, by a very. simple
accident), of the Marquis of Waterford, a good
penman, and an excellent carver at the head of
his own table, he was a great example of perse-
verance in the face of difficulties and restless
energy combined. Some few years since I had
correspondence with him, and was surprised at
the excellence of his writing. He navigated his
own yacht in the Mediterranean, wrote a book on
his voyage, made an impression, in Parliament,
and lately was one of the moving spirits in a land-
lords’ protection association in Ireland. He owned
vast properties in three counties—Carlow, Kil-
kenny and Wexford —but has been unable to get
elected for the last two or three Parliaments Last,
but perhaps not least, his wife (the daughter of a
clergyman in Co. Louth) was a very handsome
woman.—Yours truly, A. J. T.—Brisbane, October
15th.


The Referee
Bathurst is to have a regatta in December,
the chief event to be a sculling handicap fov £lOO.
There is no pride about the dwellers of the Plains.
They are going to invite Beach, Matterson, Kemp,
and Kelson to take par'.
* * *
The celebrated jumping judges at the far
back Sydney Agricultural Show have at this
distant period found out their mistake, reversed
their decision, and awarded the high-jump to the
clever grey gelding, Dart. Pretty rough this on
the owner, who all this time has shaken hands
with himself as the winner—perhaps shouted for
half the district,
* *
Byrnes and Thorpe, of the Coates C.C,,
Parramatta, disposed of the Stanmore C.C. first
eleven on Saturday last for the small score of 10
runs off the bat and 3 byes, Thorpe, 20 balls,
i> wickets, 5 runs; Byrnes, 18 balls, 3 wickets,
it runs. A little while ago Byrnes secured 9
wickets for 6 runs against the Double Bay C.C.
* * a-
■l. F. Connolly’s win of the Mail Cup on
the Parramatta River la3t Saturday came as a
surprise. Connolly wa3 in first-class “nick” (by
the way, “ nick ” is now the correct term amongst
the “ talent ”). Brett was interfered with at the
beginning of the race, and was beaten by two
lengths in the fast time of 22min. 40sec.
* * *
Mr. Wearne is the trouble in cricketing
circles. Just before he left for Brisbane he used
to play -with the Carltons, but upon his recent
return to Sydney he joined the Alberts. On
Might Hour Day he played with the Carltons
against the Warwicks, and bowled the whole
“bilin ”of them for 70 runs. The Warwicks
were “fixtured” with the Alberts for Saturday
last, and to their horror Wearne was billed to
play with the Alberts. The Warwick captain
objected to both clubs playing him, but had to
accept and refer the matter to the Association.
Wearne, however, didn't come off on Saturday,
the Alberts making but 119 to the Warwicks’ 139
for the loss of four wickets, the not-outs being
A. Gregory and E. Seale.
* * *
The future of N. S. W. bicycling will greatly
depend on the union’s decision this (Thursday)
evening, when an attempt is to be made to plac?
on his proper level the “ maker’s amateur ” or
quasi-professional. The 6ub3tance of the rule to
be submitted is that anyone being concerned in
the sale or repair of bicycles be debarred from
competing on the amateur track. This is as it
should be, for what show has the average bena-
fide amateur against the maker’s amateur, allow-
ing the men to have an equal turn of speed? The
M.A. can visit the training track at any hour he
pleases, and in the vital matter of machines he
can try, until he is suited, all the wheels he or his
people imports. Those that don’t suit he can sell
to the “soft” bona-fide , who considers that the
maker’s amateur is a legitimate business. In the
event of the rule being carried, it would tend to
build up professional racing in the colonies, for it
is not to be supposed that the speedy ones would
give up the wheel if thrown ofl tho amateur track.
What with ninety-guinea pianos and 200
sovereigns’ worth (the latter, by the way, is now
offered in Melbourne for a three miles’ amateur
bicycle race) in the w r ay of prizes, amateur
bicycling is not in a healthy state.
O’ * *
Some tall scoring in the cricket match,
Conservatives v. St. Leonards, last Saturday, the
former making 271 for five wickets.. Hargraves
made 127 and the first three-figure score of tli
season.
* * *
Uosehill Race Club completely ruined th
prospects of the Sydney Driving Park Club b
holding their postponed meeting on Saturday last
At Rosehill, the win of four favourites out of fiv
put the punters in great good humour. King’
Own opened the ball by winning the Granville
Stakes ; Balmoral made an easy win of the Hurdle
Race ; Centaur annexed the Welter Handicap
and Goldfinder the Exchange Plate, Rystone
Fairy and Sir Edward running a dead heat for
second place. The Autumn Handicap was carrier
off in a canter by Kitawa. At the trotting races
the winner of the Great Distance Handicap turner
up in Cyclone (scratch) in smin. 22jj?ec.
* * *
The hon. Secretary of the Glebe Rowing
Club denies that card-playing had a “big hand ’
in the withdrawal of their Junior Four from the
Cup contest. He siiys it was a big leg swollen by
overtraining that did it.
* * *
Robert Sutton, the “ English bookmaker,”
has returned from his trip to Europe, bringing a
choice and varied assortment of new expletives
for distribution in the paddock. During his
absence in England poor Robert lo3t his wife.
She got a divorce.
* * *
Little Sammy Cracknell preferred to look
on at this year’s Caulfield Cup, attire 1 in a minia-
ture tweed suit.
-X- -Sfr
The three “ centuries ” scored by W. G.
Grace during the past season were made against
the Australians. In county matches the doctor’s
average was much below his old form.
* # *
The festive game of “ Under and Over ”
has been re-christened. It is now called
“ Carington.’
* * *
It is a significant comment on the run-
ning in the Caulfield Stakes that, Malua was sub-
sequently backed for the Melbourne Cup at the
same price as his conqueror, Isonomy, notwith-
standing the fact that the South Australian meets
*' Wait a bit ” on better terms than before. To
the onlooker it certainly seemed that Mr. Inglis
was taking things uncommonly easily in the
Stakes (“ couldn’t use his whip” is the explana-
tion), and a good many people are expecting
Malua to show improved form at Flemington.
Anyway, the horse is well in health, and will be
all the better for the intervening fortnight’s work.
So will Isonomy, for that matter.
* ' #
The Melbourne Herald publishes a thrill-
ing yarn about a man who had a “ Death Vision ”
of the Caulfield Cup. The circumstances under
which this individual obtained his peep into
futurity are described with a minuteness which
convinces us that he mu3t himself have been a
Herald reporter, and the historian of his own
last moments. Who but his own inspired self
could have thrown off this sort • of “copy?”
“ There were but two occupants of the room, the
soon-to-be death chamber, the kind y doctor, and
the sick man upon his couch. The serene silence
was only broken by the heavy breathing of the
latter. The hour of midnight chimed, and almost
instantaneously the emaciated, gaunt figure upon
the bad rose with supernatural agility, and renting
himself upon a wasted elbow (with the usual im-
providence of a reporter, he had even wasted his
elbow), fixed his eyes upon vacancy, and in sepul-
chral tones, as if coming from a distance
exclaimed, ‘Doctor, do you bet?’ ... I see
Caulfield. They are starting for the Cup ; they
are off ; and with eager interested gaze the dying
man surveyed the room, as if watching the horses
in their career around the course. Suddenly he
exclaimed, ‘Aha! as I thought, Mick O’Brien
wins!’ and fell back lifeless.” That is the story
which the Herald states “is reported to be
authentic.”
* * *
At Foley’s Hall on Saturday night Bur-
ridge, who thought that Molloy could not “ knock
him out ” in four rounds, was disabused of his
idea in a round and a half. The chief event was of
course the meeting between the Champion
Amateur and Steve O’Donnell, who lately bested
that clever Victorian, Peter Newton. Real
business only commenced with the sixth and final
round. O’Donnell, who stands six feet, is cer-
tainly a fine young fellow, and towered over his
comparatively small opponent, but nevertheless
he came oft’ second-best. The amateur struck
him heavily on the jaw several times, and once
landed his terrible left on to “the mark.”
O Donnell was very weak at the finish. Once the
men closed, when O'Donnell accidently bumped
the amateur on the nose.
* * *
What with little “ turns up ” in Macquarie
and King streets, the M.P.’s think it worth while
to brush up their athletic “ laming.” No less
than seven of • them were at Foley’s on Saturday
night.
*
; ”
Some good fighting was also gone through
at Dooley and Seymour’s Hall. Seymour and
Fogarty went through four heavy-hitting rounds
without anything to choose between them at the
finish; and the next be3t was between Mulholland
and Parkes, the latter being clean “ knocked
out ’ in three rounds.
* * *
Sailing men had “the bulge” on the rowers
on Saturday, a heavy south-wester making heavy
work of it for the latter. The Balmain Sailing
Club brought off a Hurry-scurry race, for which
s jme thirty boats faced the starter, many of them
capsizing before Goat Island was negotiated. The
winner turned up in Mx’. Fitzhardinge’s Adelphi,
which must have won a host of trophies since she
fell into her present owner’s hands. She was built
many years ago by the late brothers Langford to
the order of Mr. Makinson, who christened her
the Mulgoa. Until Mr. Fitzhardinge became her
o wner she was looked upon as a slow knock-about
pleasxire boat, and no greater example of what
handling will do for a boat can be adduced than
Mr. Fitzhardinge and the Adelphi. The two
crack 20ft half-deckers, Nereus and Genesta, had
a spin on Saturday, when the beautifully-finished
Nereus finished ahead, but the Genesta could not
have shown her true form, as she is far and away
the fastest boat of her class in t he harbor.
Mr. Brickwood Colley will ride Malua in
the Melbourne Cup. After losing the Caulfield
Stakes* John O. Tnglis declared he would ride the
horse again himself in e the Cup, but wiser counsels
have since prevailed, and he has determined to
put an artist on him. Brickey has now a chance
of getting home first in the biggest handicap in
the southern hemisphere.
■*' * *
Isonomy’s easy victory in the Moonee
Valley Cup practically removes all suspicion that
hi defeat of Malua in the Caulfield Stakes at
weight for age was a fluke. John Hill, who
trains Isonomy, was not at all sanguine of success
—indeed, so little was he impressed with the
horse’s ability to win that he choked off a large
per ventage of his Adelaide friends, including
Charley Mann, Crown Prosecutor of Adelaide,
Billy K. Simms, the rich brewor, and many
others.
* * *
Mick O’Brien, who rode Ben Bolt to vic-
tory in t he Caulfield Cup, has openly declared that
the Melbourne Cup is the greatest inortil for him
that he ever contested. Good news this for the
Queenslanders.
* * *
Before Abraham “ went maooolah ” over
Ben Bolt’s victory in the Caulfield Cup hi 3 Helrow
brothers swore by him. He could do nothing
wrong. Now, however, things are different, and
nothing too bad can be spoken of him, some of his
detractors being men who have breakfasted on
hominy, dined <?n hominy, supped on hominy, and
slept on well, not a spring mattress.
*• * *
Since the arrival at Flemington of Trident,
the yiddisher portion of the Melbourne betting
nng have never ceased praying for his welfare.
One of the tribe recommends his being fed on
mo’.za puddings as prepared by himself. Another
suggests a month’s rest, as “de poor ’orse ” lias
done too much work; while a third displays
an amount of ingenuity in proposing -that he
should be sent to the stud immediately, purely
for the improving of our thoroughbred stock, and
not from any selfish motives, oh dear no. Ex-
cellent ideas indeed, the more so because they are
free from any sinister motives ; but would it not
be far wiser for them to deputationise Mr. White,
and obtain that gentleman’s permission to hold an
“at home” with Trident on the eve of Derby
Day?
* * *
Next Saturday is the date of the ever-
succossful first regatta of the season—Double
Bay. The entries are the largest yet received.
;* * *
A great fuss was made over the Javelin
episode a while back. The papers want to know
why the owner was not disqualiiied, and the only
answer suggested was that they couldn’t find the
owner. Javelin, you know, was one of those very
intelligent horse 3. You would sec him any time
in the paddock saddling himself, and then he
would stroll round taking the odds and telling his
friends whether he was “on the job” or not.
He gave his jockey all his own instructions, and
persistently refused to win unless he had backed
himself well —oh, a very queer horse he was. Iso
wonder they can’t find the owner.
* * *
Down at Foley’s boxing-rooms the
audience are not allowed to speak to the comba-
tants. Oue mght, however, daring a bout, in
which one of the “ fa icy ” wa* pounding another
without apparently being able to mark his face,
there arose excited o ies of “ Dirby Kelly!”
“Darby Kelly! ’ “Who’s Darby Kelly?” we
asked of a neighbour w ho was evidently a member
of the ‘ push ’ ” “ ’lt’imin the b-ngey, it means,”
he explained. “Oh ! ”
* * *
Mr. J. W. R. Clarke, of Sydney, wishes to
have a monument raised to Beach on the banks of
the Parramatta River. We hope it won’t take
the form of a public-house like Trickett’s monu-
ment at Rockhampton.
* * *
Eleven jockeys having come to grief, and
some of them having sustained serious injuries at
Rand wick recently, suggests the query : What be-
comes of all the flues inflicted on refractory pig-
skin straddlers throughout the colony ? The
money, of course, goes to the Distressed Jockeys’
Lund, which niust now total considerably over a
thousand pounds, but we cannot remember any
unfortunate jockey having received relief from
it. Some deserving cases must have'cropped up
since the Fund was started, but perhaps the
policy of the A.J.C. is to do good by stealth, and
thus save themselves from blushing.
* * *
The N.S.W. tennis players got a great
“ scrapping up ” in the intercolonial match.
While Sydney plays on grass with covered balls
and Melbourne on asphalt with uncovered balls
there will never be much life in the affairs, as the
home team must always win.
* * *
The White party aren’t half so sweet on Tri-
dent for the Melbourne Cup as is generally sup-
posed. Little John, they say privately, is the only
horse in it if he starts.
* * *
The Sydney Mercantiles, who set up to
be the leading club, didn’t send an eight to the
last N.S.W. Association regatta because four of
their seniors couldn’t row. Things must be pretty
sick when the absence of four men prevents the
M. R.C. putting a senior eight afloat.
* * *
The cricket team at Gladesville Hospital
for the Insane intend during the season to refuse
to meet the same player w ith more than one club.
Last reason some of the cracks used to go up with
the Incogniti, the Union Club, and the University,
and the unfortunate cranky chuokers had to
leather-hunt always. This they consider not good
enough.
* * *
Con. Dwyer, the champion bicyclist, has
discarded the sling and is now in active training
on “ bike ” and “ trike.”
* # *
On Sept. 12, “Johnny” Deeble offered
£lOOO to £BOO Beach against Gaudaur, without
taker?. He subsequently booked some big wagers
laying 6 to 4.
* * *
We of Australia are yet in our aquatic
infancy. At a recent regatta at Marblehead,
Mass., over 200 yachts were entered in the various
events.
* * *
Bookmaker Sutton, “The Englishman,”
was seized with a fit of ague on Caulfield course
on Saturday. Sutton was not the only “ hook ”
who had the shivers that day. Ben Bolt shook a
lot of them.
* * *
At last N.S.W. Association regatta one of
the Balmain Eight broke most of the blade off his
oar just before the start. The tranquil satisfaction
that his face displayed was worthy a trip up the
river to see.
* * *
On August 23rd, John Purcell, the crack
Irish amateur jumper, covered 23 feet l!, inch in
a long jump. Purcell took off well back of the
mark and actually covered the tremendous dis-
tance of 23 feet 6 inches. He was attempting to
beat P. Davin’s performance of 23 feet 2 inches.
* * *
Herbert A. Slade, the big Maori whom
Mace i.ook to the States to whip all creation, was
recently kn Hiked out by a ’Frisco boxer. Our old
visitor, Dan. O’Leary, is still on the tramp At
late 3 , he wanted to walk against any two Toronto
peds. for six days.
TIPS FOR THE MELBOURNE RACES.
(From Our Melbourne Correspondent.)
Melbourne Stakes, l| miles: Isonomy, Indus-
try, Sheet Ancl or.
Hotham Handicap, 1J mile and distance : St.
John, Brown and Rose, Claptrap.
Maribyrnong Plate, five furlongs : Lava, Aber-
deen, Hortense.
Victorian Derby Stakes, 1| miles : Trident,
Madelina, Kingflsh.
Selling Race, seven furlongs : Orator, Stafford,
Albanus.
Coburg Stakes, 1 mile and furlong : The Agent,
Don Giovan, The Fobber.
Second Day.
Hurdle Race : Sir Launcelot, Blue Mountain,
Bound, or Caloola.
Kensington Stakes : Eckersley, Summatra,
Glent worth.
Melbourne Gup : Little John, Silvermine, Ben
Bolt, Lord William, Isonomy next best.
Third Day.
Maiden Plate : First Consul, The Fobber, Yule
Cake.
Flying Stakes : Hortense, William Tell, Aber-
deen.
Oaks Stakes : The Nun, Crossfire, Tamarisk.
Juvenile Stakes : Epicurean, Eckersley, Fire-
brace.
Fourth Day.
Mares’ Produce Stakes : Madelina, Volcano,
Newmaster.
Steeplechase : Game, Contingent, Michael.
Canterbury I’late : Trident, Lord William,
Industry.
WICKED
WORLD
When Veschi was guillotined in New Cale-
donia lately, his severed head, as it fell in the
basket under the knife, was seen in horrible con-
tortions chewing away at the “ quid ” of tobacco
he had preserved in his mouth. So do all true
lovers of the weed pay their tribute, faithful to
its charms even after death A Polynesian and
a hinaman had a square stand-up fight at Bun-
daberg, the Celestial leaving the kanaka In
need of stitches in seventeen parts of his.
bod y At Pahiatua, New Zealand, a road
party heard “ hollow groans ” proceeding
from a rata tree. They cut it down, and found in-
side a b eached human skeleton 1800 iron-
workers are out of employment in N.S W The
Old Colonists’ Association at Adelaide have re-
solved to celebrate a South Australian jubilee on
December 27th. Bless these old colonists ; bless
them and their jubilee Sunny Corner
silver mine has now paid in all 19s. per share
dividend The prosecutrix in the Singleton
(N.S.W.) “another horrible assault” case turns
out to be a depraved creature who has been con-
victed of indecent exposure, and who was drunk
at the time of the alleged outrage The Port
Denison (N.Q ) Times re-publishes a two-column
description of the reception of Quong Tart and his
bride by the Ballarat men who six years ago
boasted that they had “purified their atmosphere ”
by the expulsion of the Chinese....... The petition
for the release from gaol of Wilson, the dog-eared
Commercial Bank rogue, from his dungeon, is
signed by 80 Adelaide lawyers. “A fellow feel-
ing,” &c Rev. Osric Copeland (Melb.). lately
lectured on “Practical Religion in Relation to the
use of money.” His congregation unquestioningly
accept his dictum as regards the useful little
threepenny.”....Summarised statement or annual
report of the morality committee of the Victorian
congregational union : Public piety seedy; church
collections showing downward tendency;
more lash wanted for the depraved larrikin
Australian \vine3 valued at about *530,090 have
been imported into Great Britain this year The
friends of the Bank of Australasia (Melb.) clerk,
who was £2OOO short, have paid up, and the war-
rant has been withdrawn The Chinese Ques-
tion—Want ee cabbagee, missee ? An intere3t-
ing ad. from a N.Z. paper : “ Wanted, some good-
looking girl to correspond with Bricks, who owns,
a house, with a view to matrimony. Bricks-earns
a good wage ; he can steer a boat, and play euchre
after a fashion, *-< e has a heavy fist, but is gentle
as a dove to friends Sir Wm. Stawell has been
created Lieutenant-Governor of Victoria in recog-
nition of hi 3 long public services Philip Moee -t
is running a temperance crusade in Queensland
“ with great success.” The collections average
1 158-375 penny per head, and Philip Moses has to
pay all expen-es.
* * *
England import ? a million eggs weekly
from the contii ent. Yet Biitons used to boas
that they “scorned the foreign yolk.” At Tra
falgar ev*ry Briton was “ required to do his duty,’
Ever since that date his chief aim has been to
do” the customs duty In Warwickshire a
dog has been arrested for getting drunk and biting
people .... At Penzance (Eng.), Jame 3 Hawke has
shot, his sister and hio sister’s husband, then he
polished oft a neighbour, and finally he wipec
himself out also. Hawke “ used to live in Austra
lia, and contributed to the Town and Country
Journal.” Humph ! Mrs. Kane Clark, an
Irish “ lady,” has been fined £7 for “tearing the
flesh out of her servant’s mouth,” smashing her
ankles, and kneeling on her chest. Had Mrs.
Clark knelt on the chest of a marchioness she
would have got seven years Fiance can raise
an army of 3,750,0(10 men. Every Frenchman is
now a soldier. Germany can muster 2.050.000 ;
Austria 2,100,000; Russia 1,900,000. The stand-
ing armies of Europe cost £800.000,000 annually.
When they stop standing and all begin to move
there is hardly enough gold in the world to pay a
year’s expenses for the lot The Earl of Ken-
mare, chamberlain to the Queen, is about to open
gin-shops in London. This is worthy of the
British aristocracy It is proposed to use con-
demned criminals in British India as subjects for
ghastly cholera experiments. There are now
400 people hanged every year in that country, so
there is a grand field for inquiring doctors. Any
man who survives the experiments will be par-
doned In Paris, ODe Blanc threw down his mis-
tress, caught her by the hair, and cut off her head
with a knife. A crowd as.-embled, whereupon
Blanc appeared at the window with his victim’s
head, and hung it by the hair on to the shutter.
Then the murderer shot himself dead with a
revolver A Pall Mall correspondent asserts
that in Neapolitan hotels tho fleas darn e to the
music of the mosquitoes. Musical Italy ! The
Bazaine family have apparently given France the
cut direct, as the marshal’s son has just been
granted letters of nationality as a Spaniard
General Boulanger, the French Minister of War,
served under the Due d’Aumale in Algeria. The
duke, in one of his reports, appended the follow-
ing note : —“ Boulanger, good, intelligent officer,
but ill-bred.” Now that Boulanger heads the
army it would be interesting to know his opinion
of the Due d’Aumale The advent is announced
of a new kind of stocking that will never need
darning. Seamless hoisery, made all round in
one piece in the loom, is now to be obtained, and
as a result of wearing it holes and darned stock-
ings are to become things of the past The
English paners object to Bishop Moorhouse bring-
ing a man all the way from Newcastle to partake
of the Episcopal loaves and sardines at Blackburn.
They think the home-made parson should be pro--
tected by a tariff.


SUNDRY SHOWS
Theatre Royal-" The Sorcerer and Triai by Jury ’ n 14
Alhambra Music Hall—Minstrelsy
Albert Hall, Granville— Lynch Family Bell’ ”
rinsers .. ~
Academy of Music— “Brie-i-Brac”
Royal Standard Theatre—“ Octoroon ” . ’l5
New Opera House—" Ingomir ’ . „ \ >t
“The Sorcerer” shook his gory locks at
our representative at Sydney Royal on Saturday
eveniog. The house was crowded, but most of
the people went out for drinks between the acts
and we are inclined to think that Messrs. Gilbert
and Sullivan also went out for drinks when they
were preparing the opera. We almost wish they
had stayed out. The piece is a good one as com-
pared with that blown-up scarecrow, “ Billee
Taylor,” but contrasted with The Mikado ” the
new opera look; only fit to be seized by the legs
and have its head knocked against the wall. The
story commences with the introduction of an
affectionate military mule who is about to be
married, and an affectionate young lady who is
about to marry this mule. The hero, in the ex-
cess of his happiness, desires to exrend the hind
leg of charity to the whole village and hires a
respectable and old-established sorcerer to dose
the natives with love-philtres. The aspect of this
wizard scatters the happy illusions of our boyhood
in one act. According to all precedent he should
bo tall and stately, with a long, white beard, and
dressed in flowing robe 3, but instead of this, he is
distinctly and offensively stumpy; he wears a
1 mg hat which is tipped backwa'dsin a rakish, beer-
and-gin drinking sort of way, a loose coat,
and a white waistcoat, and he has more ‘ * h’s ”
in a sentence than there are in all Parke-,’
Hedication Haet. He deals in prophecies, witches,
and knells, can recommend his three-and-sixpenny
horoscope as a thoroughly reliable article, and his
Abudah chests, each containing a patent hag who
cotnes out and foretells disaster, with spring co m-
plete, are unrivalled. The grett speciality of the
firm, however, appears to be the penny curse,
which is much esteemed. An extremely small
prophet, too, is kept on the premises in St. Mary
Axo, where the resident Djinn attends on cus-
tomers. and trusts by courte <y and strict attention
to business to merit a continuance of the public
patronage. This slope-hatted sorcerer arranges
to supply a keg of the patent oxy-hydrogen, love-
at first-sight philtre with 25 per cent, off for cash,
and proceeds to prepare a brew in a large teapot.
He places the receptacle on the ground and
wh> ops into the darkness at one side of the stage
and then screeches into obscurity at the other,
while ghosts and hags answer to the call like
parrots shrieking from under a feather bed ; then
he jumps over all the furniture, walks round the
teapot, first on one leg, then on no leg at all, turns
a somersault crushing his plug hat on the floor as
he turns, and yells arnid crimson blazes, and a
beastly chemical smell. The incantation being
thus completed the dose is administered in tea, and
the whole population falls with a comprehensive
flop on the stage,
* * -K*
As the natural result, everybody falls in
love. A stately baronet hitches on to a widow of
the washing, ironing, and starching description ;
the widow’s daughter become; attached to a
snuffy, dry-rot lawyer, aged 67 ; the sweetheart
of the affectionate military mule passes on to an
ancient clergyman ; and the individual who
Drought about this hide'oll3 disaster by investing
in a cask of love-philtre takes refuge in a curse of
bis own, compared to which the sorcerer’s cheap
and reliable blast of Sheol and his patent spring
bag sink into insignificance. Lastly, a lady of
high degree falls in love with the wizard him-
self, and that cheerful necromantic dawg, who,
a little while ago, was j umping gaily round his
enchanted teapot, shudders when she a-iks,
yVhat is this fairy form f see before me ? ” and
lamely to explain that he cannot marry her
because he eats' peas with his knife, and is
engaged to a simple maid in the South Pacific,
■tonally, the spell is removed by the death of the
magician, who goes down below with a cigar in
nis mouth, regretting to the last that he can’t be
present at the stock-taking next month,
* * *
The magician himself is the great redeem
mg feature of the opera. Mr. William Elto-i
took this part, and scored a decided suc-
cess. Mr. Denbigh- Newton played the Clergy-
man, and deserved to be made a bishop—and sent
to labour in Central Africa. He would make a
good bishop with a diocese of 1000 square miles in
me Great Desert, and not even a cactus or a
Wh d n ‘g£ cr in the whole episcopal desolation.
, en he has been safely disposed of in that
region, and success sully lost, it would be advis-
able to send Mr. Woodfield, in his. character of
Alexis, as a relief expedition to carry him provi-
sions. while the lawyer (Mr. Grundy) might be
e snatched to see that Mr. Woodfield did not come
and a Chinaman could be hired to whoop up
- r. Grundy on his lonely way. Among the ladies,
133 Alice Barnett, as a dame of high degree, was
specially excellent, and we are credibly in-
ormed that her dress was of real silk imported at
great expense. Miss Nellie Stewart also sang
-.“mistomary skill, and the other two ladies
in'fv a< fvantage, go to cheer up the bishop
wilderness. Xhe “ Sorcerer ” was followed
1 a Trial by Jury,” a musical breach of pro-
ise case, which is very amusing though it con-
ir'n3 110 Plot worth swearing at, and in this Mr.
c, War a Vernon made a great hit as the
learned ” judge.
, # # # #
a ,v UBII ? e3S t^ie Sydney Alhambra is about
w ° on “ in g as they make it in Australia. It is a
merful little show, aud yanks in the dollars
better than a “ Wales ” testimonial, a railway
fraud, or a jubilee institute. It is not the home
of high art or aesthetic drama, but humour of a
substantial and consoling kind is ever on hand in
gratifying quantity. And the audience seem to
become imbued with a species of reckless rollick-
ing abandon which predisposes them to an ex-
treme enjoyment of “ the good'things provided”
—this latter phrase we use in defiance of the
Evknooze whose copyright property it is.
* * *
W. B. Warner, lately retumod from
Brisbane, lends his energies to boost things along,
and succeeds a mermille, for his business is
exceedingly familiar to him—as it is likewise to the
big majority of his audience. Without wishing
to disparage Mr. Warner’s present performance
we may yet venture to hint that there are some
newer songs in the market than quite several of
those he sings. Miss Nina Tulloch warble 3 with
fetching effect, her “Moses and Aaron’’ballad being
like unto a cyclone or a bomb-shell, for it always
brings down the house. Miss Amy Rowe appears,
to our admiring eyes (for we are bright and shiny
where once auburn locks had their habitation), to
grow younger every day, and the sisters Pullen
more beautiful. Miss Edith Wilson irisbjigs in
style which goes far to prove the current a
rumour that she was weaned on buttermilk.
Itiley Brothers dance, Matlock sings, and Frank
Smith smiles with peculiar beauty and eloquence,
and these things being so the house must
necessarily maintain its pristine popularity.
## # #
Harry Rickards and Co., at the Sydney
Academy, unwilling perhaps to hurt Garnet
Walch’s feelings by taking off his production, con-
tinue to run, or rather kick along, “ Bric-a-Brac ”
to the modified rapture of moderate audiences.
Yet we are free to admit that there are some very
respectable persons by whom the humour of this
entertainment is beloved and applauded. When,
for instance, Mr. Rickards alludes to a very much
made-up butler, who is familiarly admitted to the
family circ’e as a “ rorty old funeral purcession, j
the remark is wildly applauded, and a similar
fate attends his address to the nigger footman—
also admitted to the family circle at Wattle
Grange—whom he calls “ me ton of be3t-screened
Wallsend.” Possibly there may really be much
humour in “ Bric-a-Brac,” if so it is, and will
we hop) ever be, our misfortune to be unable to
succeed in its discovery. With regard to the
songs, the programme was completely changed on
Saturday last.
## # #
The sickly tragedy of the “ Octoroon,”
with its two gaunt Yankees and its blood-stained
MISS ESSIE JENYNS
IS
"PARTHENIA”
Indian, continues to draw well at Sydney Royal
St' ndard, but it does not improve as time goes on.
The moral American with the long white coat-
tail, who says he feels moan inside, does his best
to bear up against the weight of the immoral
American with the knife down his back, and any
man who haj tried to hold up a dead elephant, by
his own unaided efforts will appreciate the diffi-
culty of the position, but the treachery of the
American aforesaid is too much for him every
time. We note with mild relief that the
“ Octoroon ” is near the end of its run.
dL dh JL Jh
'7V* 'A' •7V- 'A'
The Faust Family are now tenanting the
Sydney Gaiety for the faust time for quite a long
while. They are a company of many excellences,
and many peculiarities. Willie Faust’s mouth is
of the latter order ; it is his chief facial beauty, in
fact his only one, no face yet constructed being
capable of holding another feature without un-
seemly crowding. About the best item rn the
Family’s programme is the marble statuary
business. Dressed in classic style, made up to
resemble marble, and bathed in thick bright lime-
light the actors pose in exquisitely designed groups
with such effect as to curl up the post-office
carvings with incurable envy, and poison the
heart of an alderman with the green-eyed monster
(you will notice that we have made metaphor our
special study). Mr. Bergin, a baritone of good
compass and some science, is with them : so are
Herr Von Der Mehden, the cornet soloist, and the
two Arrowsmiths, Willie and Pearl. The latter
reproaches some imaginary man with the fact
that he does not love her. This is probably
because she sang to him ; she would never have
to reproach us that way, for her voice is to us,
as interesting as a two million deficit, and a lot
more useful.
Af. *V,
'/Y* TV -7V -T?
“ Ingomar ’’ the barbarian is finishing his
career at Sydney Opera House, and will die
deeply regretted by all who knew him, if only for
Parthenia’s sake. Miss Essie Jenyns, as the
Ureek maiden, is as winsome as ever. Her father,
a limp and weeping dummy from the Mediter-
ranean ; her lover, the coughing, broken-backed,
broken-winded Polydor; and her spiderish mother,
all vinegar and spite and front teeth, only act as
foils to set off her attractions, and even Ingomar
with his booming laugh, his absent shave, and his
stately and imposing legs, is a secondary character
in comparison with the heroine. In fact Ingomar,
though Mr. Holloway plays the character tolerably
well, has dropped so much into the back-ground,
that he has little save his hair and his legs to
travel on, and in the last act, when he is shaved
aud oivibsed, he loses a good deal of his import-
ance. Shakespeare’s pastoral comedy, “As You
lt, is announced for Friday, and should be
v.ell received, especially as a good many people
aro under the impression that a “ pastoral
clinedy has something to do with the humorous
aspect of the frozen-meat trade.
## # #
The Lynch Family of Bellringers com-
plete their bloodstained campaign in the suburbs
of Sydney this week. They appear on Thursday
at Granville, and perform at Parramatta on Friday
and Saturday; after which they will proceed to
annex the assets of the faithful in some other dis-
trict.
* # # *
In Rockhampton lately, while a diorama
was unrolling, a laughable incident occurred.
’ Twas a scene by moonlight, consisting of a large
lake surrounded by mountains. The moon in this
particular diorama begins to rise from the tail of
a cow lhat is drinking at the lake. While she
(the moon) gracefully climbs up the- face of the
mountain, the lady at the piano sings “ The Moon
Behind the Hill.” “No, ma’m,” shouted one of
the audience—“you make a mistake; she’s for-
ninst the hill this twisht.”
*# # #
On Saturday evening, at Melbourne
Atheneeum, the Needham Madrigal Singers intend
to knock the denizens of the Cabbage Garden into
metaphorical smithereens. Needham is as devoted
to music as a N.S. W. legislator is to head-punch-
ing and Billingsgate. His reputation as a com-
poser is quite “ Federal ” as it were, and it is
even rumoured that his Excellency Wullie Robin-
son took him very much into his confidence ere he
perpetrated “ Unfurl the Flag” on a long-suffer-
ing but “ loyal ” public.
#* # *
From N.Y. Mercury Once more the
cable reports that Minnie Palmer was married to
John It. Rogers at Dublin, on 13th October.”
A ghastly item. We gather
from a neat circular appro-
priately printed in blue ink that
the Sydney Philharmonic Society
is in extremis :—“ The com-
mittee regret to have to intimate
that the funds so far placed at
their disposal prove quite inade-
quate to continue operations
with any hope of giving four
concerts this season, as originally
intended; on the contrary, the
two concerts already given, with
the new music ordered, have
left a considerable deficit.” The
subscription-list for present
season has up to the present,
only amounted to about £5OO.
The cost of last concert (exclusive
of conductor's salary and re-
hearsals) is given below
Hire of Exhibition Building,
chairs, erecting platform, See. ,
£6O ; artists and orchestra, £llO ;
printing and advertising, £55 ;
sundries, £l5. Total, £240.
Tickets bought by the public,
£4O. Deficiency, £2OO. Under
the circumstances, the unfor-
tunate committee have no course
open but to appeal to members
and subscribers for another sub-
scription of one guinea Let us
hope that the subscribers and
such of the public as have en-
joyed the benefit of free tickets
will raise the amount required.
But we are a little nervous over
the matter. Any hard-working
society which gives a good en-
tertainment for the pure love of
art can, if it sends round “ com-
plimentary ” invitations, get to-
gether a magnificent and
strongly-perfumed array of per-
sonages in elaborate dress-suits
and of other personages in still
more elaborate silks and satins.
But when the little guinea is
reqtiired to help the musician
who has amused the care'ess
crowd—that is nobody’s busi-
ness. People don’t visit in prison the man
whose champagne they have drunk, and it is in-
convenient to remember the roast turkey and
after-dinner Benedictine of your ruined friend.
And so it is with regard to the society which has
sung for you till it was hoarse.
## # #
At the Alexandra Theatre, Melbourne,
Phil,. Day is appearing as Dick Dolland, in Byron s
drama, “ Uncle Dick’s Darling.” It was written
some 17 years ago for J. D. Toole, in order to give
the low comedian a chance to exhibit the
emotional power which he doesn’t possess. It has
been revived apparently to provide Mr. Phil. Day
with the same opportunity. ■ The story is that of
a hawker who. aspires to make a lady of his
adopted daughter. He sends the little “ darling ”
to a fashionable boardingschool— terms, 100
guineas per annum and extras—and when she is
“ finished,” hawker Uncle Dick takes her back to
his caravan and marries her to his nephew, a poor
but honest young man, who wears no waistcoat
and dispense? with braces. That is the story.
But three quarters of the play are devoted
to Uncle Dick’s dream of what would happen if he
allowed his darling to make a match in accord-
ance with the wishes of her superfine school-
mistress. The dream depicts the darling as a
fashionable young woman of the Mrs. Crawford
type married to a Mr. Chevenixand “carryingon”
with the Hon. Claude Lorrimer. She comes to
grief, and poor Uncle Dick dreams himself into a
broken heart, long white hair and' eyebrows of
abnormal bushiness. This is the dream which
decides the benevolent hawker against a fashion-
able alliance for his adopted daughter. It
is a foolish dream entirely. A less impossible
creature than Uncle Dick would have had quite a
different-coloured nightmare. He would have
seen the accomplished boarding-school miss turn-
ing up her nose at the poor, but honest, husband,
and playing waltzes qn the piano when she ought ,
to have been peeling potatoes. However, the play
can’t bo altered now, because H. J. Byron is dead.
Mr. Phil. Day scarcely add 3 to his reputation in
the character of Uncle Dick. In his merry
moments he is amusing but slangy. There is a
thin monotony about his pathos. He doesn't
one the idea that he is in earnest. We remember
the original production of “ Uncle Dick’s Dar-
hng. The principal? were Toole, Irving (Mr.
Chevenix), John Clayton, and Adelaide Neilson.
J he only member of the Alexandra Company who
r>?.^f oac^es performance of his predecessor i 3
1 i9s EUa Claiborne has a light
comedy voice which alone is enough to-disqualify
her for tearful parts. Of the others, Mr. Fred,
fetanmaur is a passable Chevenix, and distinctly
reminded us of Irving in the first act. There was
a strong resemblance between the patterns of
their respective trousers—if we remember rightly.
Ihe drama is excellently put upon the stage and
finds favour.
#
Notwithstanding that the pretty little
town of Grafton is positively to be let (applications
to be addressed to the bank s>, the mighty Edith
O Gorman, alias “ Escaped Nun,” seems to have
scooped in over a hundred guineas during her re-
cent brief visit. “ This,” says a correspondent,
is considerably better business than giving up
j our money and all chance of making money, and
tramping round in a rusty black gown to visit
the pick.”
BRIEF MENTION.
.In a Townsville paper there appeared a
historical essay that ended with this line:—
" Tiwy charged with all their cutlery.”
Prosecutions for fraud are so numerous in
Sydney that it would seem officials have now no
more rights than ordinary citizens.
“ A peep into Hell ” was-the subject of a
rec.ent lecture at Gym pie (Q.) We suppose it was
on account of a trip to Rockhampton.
The resident magistrate at Cambridge
Gulf says that “considerable confidence is still re-
posed, in the Kimberley mines.” But where in
the name of goodness are the mines in which this
confidence is reposed ?
A N.Q. paper reports that Ah Moon, of
Townsville, has joined the Anti-Chinese League,
and paid his subscription. When the time comes
for the Chinkie to leave he will probably say, “Me
no Chinee ; me Olangeman.”
The general Assembly of the Victorian
Presbyterian Church commences its sittings on
Cup Day. The ungodly remember, however,
that the ‘clergy can lay their reverend shirts on a
sinful double without visiting the course.
In the Nepean Police Court. Plaintiff :
“ I kept his child over two years and he would
not pay me a penny.” Defendant : “ Yes, but
how long did I keep your wife whilst you were in
gaol?” Plaintiff squirmed, but said nothing.
The Nymagee publicans and the Nymagee
teetotallers are at war on the question—shall pub i
lie-houses be abolished ? We think they should.
When the publicans are extinct, you see, there
will be no room for the tcmperance-spouters.
A Gippsland policeman has committed
suicide. Before blowing out his distracted brains
the “bobby” wrote a memorandum asking that
the manner of his death should be kept dark from
his parents, and that they should merely be in-
formed how he went off happy and quite ready for
eternity. These last instructions have been faith-
fully carried out by the daily papers.
A heavily-insured London house has been
set on fire by the explosion of a bottle of milk. It
is thought chemical changes took place in some-
thing eatt-n by a heavily-insured cow and a kind
of dynamite was thus produced. This opens up a
new and terrible source of danger. Even the
baby may now be loaded, and spanking that sweet
iqnocent may result in the wrecking of half a
suburb..
At Perth (VV.A.), a ticket-of-leave man
was lately “ run in ” for being out at a quarter-
past 10 on Saturday night. The unlucky indivi-
dual who holds a “ ticket ” in that colony must
not even go on his own verandah after 10 o’clock,
and if he puts his head out of the window after
hours to “ shoo ” a hen in his front garden he is
liable to work in the iron-gang for about three
months.
This is how two stone-brokers get’their
dinner in Coonamble during the. fogs.
One of them goes into a pub. at meal
time and sits down, letting the , land-
lord know that his horse (he has none) is tied up
in the shade by the river. When the duff is nearly
“scoffed” his mate rushes in and says, “Your
horse has broken his bridle, and is off down the
street! ” Exit number one, and the place trf his
feed knows him no more. With the other swindler,
in another pub. the vice is versa.
Won’t wash —the Sydney aldermen.
Councillor Cain is the Mayor-elect of Mel-
bourne. Is the jubilee baronetcy to be the brand
of Cain ?
The Parkes party ate getting very excited
indeed. At a political meeting, promoted by the
Orangemen of Paddington on Monday night, a
Mr. William Miller alluded to the loquacious Boy
Politician as “ that fiend Caulfield!” Alderman
Campbell went one better by courteously remark-
ing that Premier Jennings was the Castlereagh of
N.'S.W. The only misfortune was that, unlike
the other statesman, ho had not yet cut his
throat.”
According to the Sydney D.T., at the
opening of St. Andrew’s Chapter-house on Monday
afternoon, Lord Carington said :—I have been
asked to suggest that in case any person has for-
gotten their purse I shall be happy as chairman to
receive any promises of subscriptions which any
lady or gentlemen may be pleased to give.”
Surely to goodness, His Excellency, as guardian
of the Queen’s English, said nothing of the kind ?
Certain political oracles in Sydney who
would seem to have some authority for their
opinion, assert that Lord Carington would really
like to be able to mistake D.T. leaders and-the
speeches of Messrs. Hawken, M’Kinnon, Martin,
and Co. for “ the voice of the country.” In that
event, it is thought, he would disregard the or-
dinary constitutional practice and dissolve the
House against the advice of his Ministers. We
cannot think that Lord Carington—anxious though
he very possibly is to do something notable—
would risk so much. His Ministers would be
bound to resign if their advioe were disregarded,
and if their party came back victorious from the
couqtry, he would be compelled to ask them again
to accept the offices which he had forced them to
resign, ' '


Pepper
And
Salt
The rector of Norton-in-the-Moor (Eng.)
displays a marvellous clerical ignorance of the
ns and outs of “ kiss in the ring.” He is such
an unsophisticated child of light as to tell his
flock that “it passes his understanding how any
modest maiden can allow boy or man to come and
kiss her as part of the game.” The maiden
allow ! Great Scott ! On behalf of that sterner
sex which is often more kissed against than kiss-
ing, we will rectify the rector in a doggrel :—-
The Melbourne Herald' (an aesthetic
evening journal of the Noose family) protests, in
the interests of morality, against “ the advent of
a cheap and noisome literature.” The Herald,
bless its little heart! —considers that “ to the
eager perusal of a most pestilent species Of cheap
reading may be traced much of the exceptional
crime which is a feature of the times. . . .
Hide by side with the publication of blood-curdling
fiction, and sty'll worse (O, most just judge!), of
newspapers devoted to the narrative of hidoous
outrages, a kind of mimetic frenzy seems to seize
upon the weak and criminal classes of society.
. . . Turn which way we may, we find people
making fortunes by the publication of literature
which panders to morbid tastes and vicious pas-
sions. It gives us downright pleasure to reprint.
A NEW INDUSTRY.
“BACK FROM KIMBERLEY."
these copious and touching extracts from a penny
paper which has doubled its circulation during
the past three years by a strict attention to hang-
ings, floggings, and miscellaneous social ’trocities.
Only quite recently we referred to the case of a
Melbourne man, who “ went for” his missus in
the proud hope of “ doing something for her which
would make the Herald sell better than when
the Kelly gang was captured.” If the aforequoted
article had only appeared earlier, that ambitious
ruffian might have spared himself a crime which
was distinctly inspired by a pestilent species of
cheap reading. No matter—better late than never.
Now that the'leading horror-monger of these
colonies has started a crusade against “ noisome
literature,” we shall expect the Sydney Nooze to
assist it in holdipg the mirror up to virtue. It
will soon be possible to lay out our evening penny
in Sydney or Melbourne without blushing.
The of some of the “penny
awfuls ” are smuggling tradesmen’s puffs into
their daily reports of “shocking suicides,” hor-
rible disclosures, and the like. “By the side of
the ill-fated man,” says one of the recent free
ads., “lay a nickel-plated revolver, which
he had purchased the day before from Messrs.
Ballcartridge and Co., and which, like all
the articles sold at that establishment, did its
deadly work only too well.” As the rosy little
game uets better known, we will probably read that
“ the bullet entered just under the breast-pocket
of his marvellously well-fitting coat, which was
made in Messrs.... Snip Brothers’ best style, and
his socks were evidently new, as they still bore
the well-known and popular trade-mark of the'
famed Balbriggan House.” Or maybe we’ll hear
that, “although the dastardly ruffian struck at :
the head of his : victim repeatedly, (still such was
the wonderful firmness of his hat, which came
from the unrivalled emporium of Castor Cadie and
Co. that it resisted every blow, and to its efficacy
the wearer undoubtedly owes his life.” Thus will
the fame of our tradesmen be Wafted from Car-
pentaria s rocky mountains to the Yarra’s smell -
i'ul sands, and thus will the level-headed reporter
be enabled to deprive two birds of existence by
means of one brick.
* * *
The very latest pill-and-ointment testi-
monial. On a certain N.S.W. station a man fell
into a vat of boiling tallow, and before he was
hauled out he had been cooked from the waist
downwards. His mates rushed for a prayer-book
with a view to giving the sufferer some ghostly
consolation ; but they could only find a fragment of
one; still, regarding even that as better than
nothing, they commenced to read the prayer which
invokes a blessing on Albert Edward and the rest
of the Royal Family. But luckily them ’was one
practical man in the crowd, and just as the service
was proceeding gaily he appeared with three
bottles of Boshliar’s ointment, and yelling, “To
with the Prince of Wales,” he proceeded to
dress the sufferer’s wounds and bandage them
with sheepskin. Then he administered a pint of
rum internally, and left the patient in peace to
await results. This was 12 months ago, and at
last sheafing the unfortunate man returned eight
pounds of good crossbred wool. He would have
given more but for the dfought.
# * *
The breed of European kings is improving.
Ihe late lamented Ludwig of Bavaria used to
think he was a double-headed eagle, and now he
has passed his delusion on to his successor, King
Otto. This gentleman has long wished he were a
bird, and he has now started. cackling,’ under ihe
impression that his desire has been realised. He
has also built a nest of straw and dry leaves in his
apartment and is looking round for some eggs to
hatch to keep the family from becoming extinct.
His subjects, however, are loyal to- the last, and
some of them even wish Otto to assume the
government that he may cluck on the Bavarian
throne and greet foreign ambassadors with a
cock-a-doodle-doo. Socialists and other depraved
people, of course, object to be ruled by a monarch
who wants to lay eggs and insists on roosting on
the back of a chair instead of going to bed, but
they don t count for much in South Germany ; the
Loard s Anointed is .still boss of the situation.
The Anointed, by the way, ha 3 now retired into
seclusion for the moulting season.
THE “GAMP” AS IT IS PLAYED.
Rector, thou has never played
In some verdant woodland glade
At kiss in the ring,
Else thou woulds’t not wonder how
Maid can manhood's kiss “ allow
She does no such thing.
In a circle stand they there —
Bashful swains and maidens fair—
With a girl iii the middle ;
She affects a timid grace,
Tries to blush and hide her face
(For a girl’s a riddle).
All the young gazelles, meanwhile,
Frisk, about in sportive. Style-
Eyes full of mischief ;
Round and round they singing go,
Waiting for their chance to throw
The longed-for kerchief.
All the fellows, hot and red,
Meek as lambs to slaughter led,
Try to look pleasant.
(Men to girls are one to eight
At these games, we beg to state,
When we’ve been present.)
Presently the crowd of girls,
Laughing shakes, its wayward curls,
While the one in the centre
Pausing here and pausing there,
With kerchief waving in the air.
Makes the chaps turn magenta.
Soon the maiden spots her “ one
In hot pursuit he has to run
To quiet, dark places ;
Till she thinks they’re out of sight,
Then she stops—the luckless wight
In her embrace is.
Htrephon’s trembling arm she grips,
Gliics on his her ardent lips,
And droops her lashes ;
He, pQpr half-unwilling elf,
Dpidbknow how to help himself—
’Tis the maid who mashes.
Rector, we have played that game,
And girls treat every chap the same
When once they’ve picked him ;
Pursuer be he or pursued,
The maidens feign that they are wooed—
The man’s the victim.
TOLD AFTER THE CUP.
(BY A BROKER).
On November 2nd in eighty-six,
The Leary Bloke and me,
We puts some brass in our saucy “ kicks,
And we goes the Cup to see ;
We both wore soots o’ slap-up checks
(I ’ad a light green ’at),
And was voted by all o’ the opposite sex,
The toffs o’ the Flemington Flat.
We takes our seats atop of a fence,
Does the Leary Bloke an’ me—
We ’as no truck with the small events,
But we waits there patientlee—
Waits till the nags ’ad cantered by
(We’d laid out our bits o’ gold),
Bill shoves his glass to his heagle eye,
And this is the tale he told.
“ They’re up in a line by the startin post,
Some thirty strong or more ;
They’re or/—at the first attempt a’most—
With Meteor to the fore ;
Then, in a cluster agin tho rails,
Is Lesbia, Grace, Recall,
With Trident pullin’ like mad at Hales,
And Sheet Anchor last of all.
Ere they come, galloping up the straight—
A gallopin’ up like h ;
Don Giovan in front, with his nice light weight,
And Malooa a run n in’ well ;
Away past the lawn and the judge’s box,
Tho’ the battle ain’t arf begun,
Already a lot o’ them weedy crocks
Is a tailing away—clean done.
“ Round by the river it’s much the same,
The light weight’s still in front—
A cove in red, Lord knows ’is name,
Has dropped right out o’ the ’unt;
Away at the back here’s somethin’ in white
Come up with a orful rush—
The favourite keeps with his field all right,
And clear of the bloomin’ crush.
“ They’re closin’ up as they pass the sheds—
The Don and Recall are done !
I can’t see well, for the people’s ’eds—
Ah, now for the final run !
Little John, the Anchor, and old Ben Bolt,
Bohemian and Silvermine,
Trenton, Malooa, and the Derby colt—
It rests with some eight or nine.
“ Silvermine’s gone ! He’s under the whip—
The Anchor ’as cried a go !
Trident ’as given the rest the slip—
It’s all over now , you know.
A quarter o’ mile from homo the race'
Is over. What did I say? *
Didn’t I say it ’ud be the case
When I saw ’irn on Saturday ?
‘ Malooa’as eased, ’ee’s got no show— 1. ..
No ’orse can’t give the weight— ; .
It ain’t’is game to be number two.
’Ere’s one come out too late !
Affluence, s help me ! with Sammy up—
He goes like a little bird—
He’s second—but Trident wins the
Little John is a decent third.” 1
V • • * • • I
On November 2nd, in eighty-six,
The Leary Bloke and me, "v
Without no brass in them saucy “ kicks ”
G6es toddling’oine to tea; " ’
If I’d only known what now I knows,
That Trident was such a king,
I’d ’ave pawned my rorty soot o’ clo’es
And bust the blighted ring.
A SONF OF ’87.
Ah* those: histories of horrors ! Those narratives
of gore!
In the old familiar columns we shall seek them
nevermore,;
The only docent reading now lot mother sister
child
Is found in evening papers—holy, pure, and un-
defiled.
they go not in for murder, suicide, or suddon
death
(With spicy half-inch headings meant to take
away our breath). '
They bar all yarns reflecting on tho morals of a
wife—
Their mission is to show us but the pleasant side
of life.
Ah ! the healthy evening paper doesn’t gloat o’er
girlish fault,
It would scorn to shock the public with a criminal
assault;
1 hose histories of horrors and those narratives of
gore,
We shall buy them off the urchins for a penny—
nevermore.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The best-looking Anglican curate in
Syd.aßjr_.is a Chinaman, - -
,-Mkynr .Young’s Jnbileoaterseiravo
'Photographed. The photo's, were
taken at a time when they were all “straight.” y
The N.S.W. Minister for Mines is suffer
ing from “severe lumbago.” A man who h
' both dyspepsia aud lumbago is very hardly used
The Honorable Finch-Hatton, . up a J n
(at Tenterfield) for being drunk, took r'evenJ n!
the Press. He described himself as a. “ reporter ”
The second son of an earl drives a ’bus in
Sydney. He couid find no other employment
which would- enable him to keep his wife, and Z
took to the ribbons. , 80
. The. other day aN.S. W. cbtintiy solicitor
“,''' rili "g tb his city agents, signed himself “m'
OHooligan, Lawyer, &c.” “Lawyer & c " {
good. Coonan is alawyer et cetera. ’ ’’ 18
A king died last week at Hay, N.S.W
His name was Waradgery, and his reign wa*
more peaceful than Victoria’s. He attend*?
more races than Wales or Lord Carington.
A certain N.S.W. liigh-priest of Free
Trade, who writes much to the papers, carefully
hides his front Christian name. It is “ Jedediah"
and if people got to know that, the freetrad*
cause would be “ busted in one act.” ‘
Australians will be interested to hear that
Captain Cook is a member of the Marylebone
Cricket Club, and made scores of 146 and 143 j n „
match against Wiltshire. / We shall expect to
hear next that old Van Diemen has won a sculling
The Sydney University Cai.k.vpar
intimates that Mr. Humphrey Oxenham, the well-
known “Metallician,” has presented to the Univer-
sity library a copy of liis Tube Guide. The little
volume will be handy when a chair of metallurgy
is established in the sweet by-and'bye.
The Australasian publishes a biography
of the newly-appointed Bishop Goe, of Melbourne
The article, which is apparently intended to be
complimentary, exhibits Goe to the public a« a
bigoted episcopal rhinoceros who objected to
Bradlaugh’s admission to the Commons.
A "crowd of truculent “unemployed”
stopped Sir Henry Loch, as he was driving from
Government House, Melbourne, one day last week
They demanded work, and Sir Henry smiled
incredulously. It isn tin a Governor’s nature to
understand any human being asking for ivork.
The Duke of Connaught has gone to India,
because, as the time is approaching when he will
be nominated over the beads of many senior offi-
cers to be Commander-in-Chief of the British
Army, in the place of the Duke of Cambridge, it
is desirable-that he should nominally see a little
service.
“ Mudgee ” Taylor, M L.A., we are glad
to hear, will soon be himself again. Worry nnd
anxiety, and that shortness of fiieahs that tries
most of us, nearly killed him. He now lives in a
pleasantly-situated cottage at Arncliff on the
Hlawarra Railway, and employs his leisure in
literary work.
In Condobolin Anglican Church, the other
Sunday, a leading member of the congregation,
seeing that a certain member of another creed was
present, arose from his seat and asked the clergy-
man to have the heretic ejected. The clergyman
refused, whereupon the would-be inquisitor
bounced out of the building with his family.
The truth sometimes comes out quitb ac-
cidentally, and sometimes, too, a humorous lie is
told by mistake. The other day a bill of sale
given by a certain knight w r as registered in
Sydney. In that column of the official register
wherein is entered the occupation of the person
making the bill of sale, are written the magic
letters, “K.C.M.G.”
In Christchurch, N.Z. , lives a lady 45
years of age who has been an opium-eater for 27
years, and who now drinks two ounces of lauda-
num daily ! Her skin, saffron-hued and shrivelled,
is literally covered with deeply-graven wrinkles,
and her eyes are dull and watery, with not a speck
of lustre in them. She has made many attempts
to abandon the habit, but in vain;
Mr. Hubert Murray, the holder of the
Queensbcrry (English) Cup, is practising as a bar-
rister in Sydney. Mr. Murray says he would of
all things like a spar with Mr. Seale, the amateur
champion, but’ he does not know what “ their
Honors ” would think of the black eye he would
bo sure to acquire. Mr. Murray is a first-
class athlete, and if a spar comes off it will be
worth seeing.
The intermarrying which goes on among
the Rothschilds makes it unlikely that any of the
younger members of the family will equal the
record of the Dowager Baroness, who died last
month at her chateau outside Paris. She was 83
years of age, and chiefly remarkable for having
married her uncle. O, our prophetic soul! Her
uncle! The good lady must have been first
cousin to her own babies.
Mr. H. M. Chester, P.M., who was shifted
from Thursday Island at the request of residents
and traders, is again getting himself disliked up
North. A motion submitted by him the other
evening at Cairns, that Tiie Bulletin should be
excluded from the School of Aris reading-room,
was ignominiousiy rejected. The local CHKONrcW,
in reporting the fact, designates Mr. Chester as
“ our chief local infliction.”
Mr. “Money” Miller recently distin-
guished himself by being absent from the usual
weekly meeting of directors of the Bank of Vie-
toria, Melbourne. For 25 years has Mr. Mill® l
regularly turned up on these occasions, but a
severe cold kept him in bed the other day. This
assiduous watcher of his interests is approaching
the “eighties,” and it is feared that the shock of
missing a meeting may seriously affect his health-
A London paper says that Prince Leopold s
young widow ought to marry again, as “her former
taste of married life was brief and imperfect.
Egad 1 that’s true enough. It was indeed imP e f‘
feet. If the Princess squeezed her brittle hubby s
arm she broke it. Whenever he leaned forward
to kiss her, bang wont a bloodvessel. And as i°
hanging on to his neck —such a connubiality wa
strictly forbidden by the doctors. She might hav®
pulled his head off. .....
Thus the Scottish News of 27th Auguk
oil Mr. Emu-Egg Iloddle Doddle White, wk>
visited Scotland with the “ colonial gang _
“ Among the more notable colonials is •“ ’
R. H. D. Whyte, the chief financier in New Son •
Wales, who is a justice of peace of three colons -
and some time ago received the thanks of
Government of that colony for the spirited maim
in which he defended the bank against an fl iro


of bushrangers. It is said that in the course of
the melee he killed five of the.leaders of the hand.”
!
from S. M, .Herald : “An
''English Barrister seels employment in a Sydnc
Solicitor’s office. First class conveyancer. Goo
penman and shorthand-writer. Salary not le
than £3 per week) Apply Themis, Heral
office.” This is too muchrjOy ! If he will on
undertake to polish up the handle of the big fron
door, 1 and take up the perjury clerk’s duties durin
the latter’s temporary engagement in Darlinghur
he might stand a show-. - You ought to have gon
for the Church, Themis,. my son ! They are ab~o
1 lately raking Sheol to get a Bishop for Melbourn
while you are advertising to do a horse’s work fo
£3 a week.
According to a picture in the Londo
GftAi’Hie, Prince Alexander of Bulgaria wa
“forced” to sign his abdication at the point o
the Bayonet, while an officer held a revolver clos
to His Highness’ royal left ear. The whole seen
smaeked of melodramatic arrangement. Whe
the ttue story of the Bulgarian covp d'etat come
to be' .written, it will probably be found tha
Alexander was a willing actor, and was paid
good Stiff price for playing his part. The un
iexpected “ loyalty ” of the Bulgarians may hav
;been quite as embarrasing to the Prince as to hi
jbossfthe Czar. By the way, the former actually
•grovelled at the latter’s Imperial feet on the
occaeidn of tjieir last interview.
An (N.Z.) schoolmaster, namec
Burr, • who, charged with taking liberties with
feis pupils; had"been suspended by the Auckland
Board of Education, suicided on October 6 by tying
himself to a bridge at Manakau Harbour by means
of a long rope, and taking a header into the water
Almost his last words were “ Before God I am
innocent!” Gurr was an elderly man, married
and With a “ grown-up ” family. His case is a
hard'one. The, local school committee considered
the charges against him trumpery, and recom-
mended "the Education Board to accept his resig-
nation and end the matter. But the Board re-
fused, and it has unquestionably been the means
of driving the unhappy man to his death.
Speaking last week about the Prince of
Wales running up his tailor’s bill to £4OOO reminds
us that the grandfather of the present Duke of
Buccleuch died owing his tailor £30,000. Half of
“ Snip’s ” claim was for money advanced, but the
bill, pure and simple, ran into £15,000. The bold
Buccleuch was in the habit of writing to the
tailor from his yacht in the Mediterranean, de-
siring tho head of the firm to come out and take
the ducal order. The firm’s travelling expenses
brought the Duke’s coats up to about £lOO apiece,
more or less. When this £30,000 account was
sent in to. the executors of the crazy duke it was
promptly paid, and the joy of getting such a fear-
ful weight off his mind sent the poor tailor mad.
Berry, the British executioner, recently
hanged Mary Ann Britland, and not having her
photo, he wrote the following letter to the Ashton
Chief Constable Sir, —I would take it as a
favour if you would send me a carte-de-visite of
Mary Ann Britland, the Ashton poisoner, whom I
executed at her Majesty’s prison, Strangcways,
Manchester. I did hear them selling outside the
prison, and 1 thought 1 should like one to put in
my collection of murderers whom I have hung on
different occasions. I here with enclose you my
card, trusting you will send me one, or give me
the address of the photographer.—l am, sir, yours
faithfully, James Berry, Executioner.” The
Chief Constable duly complied with the request.
M. Chevreul, the great French chemist,
ranks as the oldest scientist in the world. He
passed his 100th year last August, and ha 9 been
employed in the Jardin des Plantes since 1810.
He has lived under 11 governments—from that of
Louis XVI. down to the third Republic—and
remembers distinctly the hideous Reign of Terror.
During his long life he has neither drunk nor
smoked, and his diet consists almost entirely of
soup, beefsteak and coffee. During the Prussian
bombardment of Paris the Jardin des Plantes
suffered more than any other part of the city, but
M. Chevreul, then 85 years 6f age, stuck to his
museum, and while the bursting shells were
scattering his collections he scrambled for the
wrecks of his cherished specimen?, and succeeded
m saving many of them.
The Rev. M‘Kellar, of Whangarei, N.Z.,
bas retired from the vineyard and taken to the
aw - He objected to the vineyard for four rea-
s°ns : (l.) The screw w r as not big enough. (2.) It
Was precawrious” as well as small, and was raised
Partly by bazaars, raffles, and holy swindling, and
e rest by begging and threats of Sheol. (3.)
hellar was excited when he wrote the third
eason, and Solomon himself could not make he d
1 of it. And (4) a Presbyterian parson has
8t to travel on Sunday. On M’Kellar’s reffg-
a-°n being read it was moved that the rev.
th j lan was a vineyard ass, and the matter
„, en dropped. By-and-bye lawyer Mac- will
(l kis new profession for eighteen reasons :
•i Because the law is an infernal swindle. (2.)
I 3 au^ e C°°nan is a lawyer. (3.) Because Kerferd
The other fifteen reasons are uoavoid-
at% held over. f
LrA k' r °velling Melbourne journal says that
writt Tarington is the author of a “ cleverly-
Thi« . en a^etc b,” entitled “ Hunting Life in India.”
whirV. 3 -m rs * m littering of the storm of slobber
Can - i break upon the Melbourne people when
“Hn , 011 arriv es on the 28th. The -.-ketch,
as a -mg Life in India,” was written by Lord C.
on bn 00 ?' - on to-’a “newspaper” published
Austin 1 Carthage during H.E.’s voyage to
handsnfij copy of the paper fell into thc
& fter r-■ Sj .dney Echo people a week or two
litim Carington reached Sydney, and our
smart f atern P° r ary thought it was doing a very
wjk reprinting the sketch as original
■ ce^ency ' s n ame over it, and thus con-
DbVpi®, to .the uninitiated the idea that the
w’riW r °, N.S.W. had just been installed as a
_er on the Echo staff.
j, p tttffch must be said in justice to Mr.
the '\i o He has but one blood relation in
stipend; ” ' p 'ml Service —his brother, the
P°mtm e a ',' y nia Sistrate-—who received his first ap-
Sip u et) nt and first subsequent promotion from
least n 1 arkes, having joined the service at
entered n ,? n y ears before Mr. J. P. Abbott
c',as Se .i ariiament, Mr. Harriott, who has been
fives, ent ° LG r * Abbott’s proteges and rela-
n°t until erpa the- service some 30 years ago, and
connectpH n v, any years afterwards did he become
Mr. Abh ttv nia,rPl & e with the Abbott family.
Ber vice— ° ,>,• as one °tber connexion in the
truthful r hlch father upsets the assertion of the
Holy a] , r anville orator who the other day pub-
Placed iof . , **?at Mr. Abbott had personally
c °'ffitry Rations at the service of his bleeding
a SV did iae atter magnificent total, by the
n °v satisf y a subsequent meeting at
•bent that’ . w . ere gratified by the announce-
Abbott, Civil servants belonged to the clan
POLITICAL
POINTS
Russia is holy for her own interests.
Hartley welcome—to elect the. Best man,
Tom Rose wanted Protection at that Free-
trade meeting.
During the current year N.S.W. has sent
£lOOO to Parnell ! - . s
The Eastern Question in Australia—What
shall we do with the Chinese ?
“Dissolve! Dissolve!” shrieks the E.
News. We don’t want the News to dissolve.
We’d like to see it “ dry up.”
Proverb by Wisdom.—Office is like
whisky—when a man gets a taste for it once he
forever after has a hankering for it.
Alfred Allen says “ he loves N.S.W. and
is prepared to die for it.” We are glad. Politi-
cians like Alfred don’t do any good by merely
living for their country.
The “military movement” is responsible
for one million pounds of the deficit in the N.S.W.
finances. Such is Jingoism, and such is glory !
All that the electors have got for that million is—
some tailors on horseback.
The Sydney D.T. wants to “go to the
country.” The French wanted to go to Berlin.
And they did go—as prisoners, like sheep in
railway-trucks. Which is exactly what will
happen to the N.S.W. freetraders.
“Would Sir Henry Parkes dare to deny that he was the
writer of many of the Sydney D.T. leaders?”
EDITOR WADI): “HOORAY! HOORAY! WE’VE BEEN
MISTAKEN FOR PARKES.”
Since Lord Randolph Churchill became
Chancellor of the Exchequer he has suffered in
health from the political restraint placed upon his
little tongue. At latest dates the little Tory
mountebank displayed angry symptoms of “ sup-
pressed skite.” v.
Slimmed up, the political situation in
N.S.W. amounts to this : The present Ministry
took to the Protectionists to uphold their failing
cause. The Protectionists will probably be strong
enough aftGr next general election to dispense
with the Ministry.
“ If there is one distinguishing trait in the
political character of New South Wale 3 it is that
of a sublime and almost invulnerable patiencei”
says the Sydney D.T. That is so. They haven’t yet
pole-axed Jawbone Neild, and it is alleged that
some people still read Saithtra’s leaders.
More Imperial Federation dogwash. Sir
Anthony Musgrave, Governor of Queensland,
thinks that if the Empire is not federated it will
ultimately be chopped up after the fashion of
Poland. But, as far as we can remember, Po'and
was “ federated ” to death's door before she was
swallowed up.
An argument very commonly urged
against payment of members is that it would
degrade Parliament. This objection can: hardly
apply to the present N.S.W. Assembly. To
attempt to degrade that “deliberative” body
would be as futile as to try to cool the North Pole,
or to warm Rockhampton.
The Railway to Ryanslattery, we mean
Burrowa, found an advocate in Harold Acraman,
the crack amateur N.S.W. light-weight. He says
that nobody there would be benefited by a rail way
but the cockies. No—but there’s something about
cutting up big estates into farms that makes us
think Acraman’s Beverley property might possibly
be on the market if they got their line.
The head office of the N.S.W. Telegraph
Department is in anything but a satisfactoi’y state.
A strike is inevitable unless some measures be
taken to put a stop to “ political ” promotions. It
is not right that useless operators should draw fat
salaries and look on with a benign ..mile at men
getting about £l3O a year. The Melbourne and
Brisbane lines are manned almost solely by men
getting £l3O and £175.
During 1885, N.S.W.’s output df coal was
2,8 78, §6,3 tons j;an increase for the year of 129,754
tons. , Since 1872, the colony has exported 91,921
.tons A i;^ a eS®i,-?34j803. i Last, year the export
of copper was 0h1y7f192 tons,' owfiig to low
prices drought, which brought the output
down to 571(3 tons. The increase in the yield of
silver for the year represents £139,407. Forty-
eigH& tohs- of broken—Hill silver ore sent to 'Mel*
. byffrne for treatment yielded £7442.
Ireland must have Home Rule, just as
X.S.W . must have a Local Government Act. At
present the Hpuse of Commons is supposed to look
-after everything Irish down to the town-pumps
Here are two questions cut from the notice paper
of the House :
Mr. Blaine to ask whether Head-Constable Magee is to
bi? retained at Armagh, notwithstanding that his relations by
* ,ve ISllme 1 Sllme ; and Sir T. Esmonde, to ask
w u D nF y ’ n0 v w em Pi°y e d as a telegraphist a
i citi ick s Well, will soon be promoted.
Home Rule is becoming necessary whether the
people ask for it or not. If the chief council of
the empire is to keep one eye on Constable Magee
and the other on Miss Duffy, what is to become
of the rest of the 300,000,000 people whom it is
supposed to look after ?
“ The following generous offer,” says the
Gundagai Times, “ is made in a circular sent by a
Sydney firm. Seeing that one of the members of
the firm is undergoing his examination at the
police court for fraud in connection with the
Lands Department the document assumes peculiar
significance
‘ Sir,--We have to advise you should you have any forfeited
selections on your station, upon which you cannot obtain a
refund ot tne deposits, we are prepared, with your permis-
sion, to endeavour to recover the same from the Crown by
1 iw, or otherwise, as may be necessary. Our terms are if
successful, half the amount recovered for our costs • if not
successful we make no charge. Should you agree’ to our
terms, please forward us a list of the C.P.s, giving C P num-
date, name, land, district, area, &c.—Yours faithfully,
“By law or otherwise ”is good. We guess it
will generally be otherwise—very much other-
wise. Even the S.M. Herald seems to have
caught sight of this little affair, and ir. the com-
mercial column of that paper we find the signifi-
cant remark : “ Grease shows signs of unusual
activity.” ' .
The Orange members of the
N.S.W. Parliament have received
orders 1 from their bosses to lie low
just now and keep off the platform.
At the same time instructions have
been issued to the Orange lodges all
over the colony to promote big
“ Indignation meetings” against the
Government.
There are said to be a num-
ber of very urgent reasons why
Sir Henry Parkes should get into
office—and into the salary attached
thereto—at the earliest possible
moment. But there don’t seem to
be many reasons why the people
should shove Parkes into office and
salary, though it might be a grace-
ful act to give him a salary to stand
out.
The N. S. W. Permanent Ar-
tillery has been reduced from 500
to 350 men in order to get rid of
what the officers term the, “ incor-
rigible and worthless” characters.
Thirty per cent, is a very decent
proportion of these, but still it is
better than the Ministerial average.
In the Assembly 95 per cent, are
worthless, 89 per cent, are incorri-
gible, and 70 per cent, look like
born fools. We have not had time
to add up these figures, but we will
take our solemn affidavit on a
blown-out match, or a cracked
saucer, that they are perfectly
accurate.
Certain of the papers glee-
fully published the account given
by Mr. Wisdom (per medium of a
so-called narration of proceedings
in the “Burglarian” Parliament)
of recent events in the N.S.W.
Assembly. But when Ninian Met
ville, continuing the parable of the
bon. member for Morpeth, added
that the “Burglarian” Parliament
was constantly annoyed by a cer-
tain member whose habit it was to
get very drunk, the daily papers
found it convenient to burke all further reference
to the wrangle.
A great salt-water grovel is in contem-
plation in Sydney, and the cash is to come out of
the Soudan goat and donkey —alias the N.-S.W.
Patriotic —Fund. Of that “ Patriotic ” subscrip-
tion, which amounted to over £30,000, 85 per cent,
is still unexpended, and as many of the donors re-
fuse to receive back their cash outpouring, a cer-
tain Mr. Fairfax urges that the money should be
spent in building a comfortable home “ for the
men of her Majesty’s navy while they remain here
to protect our shores.” It might, perhaps, be
better laid out in providing homes for poor
emigrants who have been lured to “ our shores ”
by lying, misrepresentation, and all manner of
official and miscellaneous perjury, and then, left
to starve in the Sydney Domain or to wander
homeless and hopeless over a bleak and poverty-
stricken land ; but the Soudan goat and donkey
grovellers make small account of these victiin3-
In deeds and words they tell them to “ starve
and be hanged,” for no Australian ever yet got a
K.C.M.G.-ship by doing justice to the poor.
It is Dilke’s own wife who is coming with
him to Australia. The Other man’s wife is staying
at home. ~ ■■
At Wyndham, Northern Territory, they
have a new gaol, and for many weeks the local
beak could find no One to put in it, but at last he
gave a sinner a three months’ term, and felt
happy. Then it was suddenly discovered that it
was not all joy to own a gaol and a live criminal.
It was necessary to have a governor if discipline
was to be maintained, also a turnkey to obey the
governor’s order?, and a surgeon, and a chaplain
to look after the morals of the depraved convict,
and in the absence of all fotlr th'ey had to tell the
prisoner lie had better go and do his sentence on
horseback, in the open air; or any way he liked
best. But the criminal insisted on staying to ex-
piate his offence, and accordingly ho has to cook
for himself and be his own chaplain and his own
governor, and all the rest of the staff, and a new
regulation has been made that if he is not in at
9 o’clock every night ho will lose all right, title,
and interest in the gaol. Several friends who are
in low water have offered to take the rest of his
sentence for him, but the Spartan prisoner declines
all such temptations.
To a Sydney Civil servant who is an amateur
gardener and knows a jackass froth a turnip when
he has a Chinaman to help him, a “friend” gave
some EC gunpowder, the other day, telling him it
was balsam-seed. He did not know the difference
and planted it carefully. He has also watered it
regularly and means to watch over it with
tenderest care.
A Dream of the Melbourne Cup,
A LONG WAY AFTER GORDON,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bring me a quart of colonial beer
And some doughy damper to make’good cheer,
I must make a heavy dinner;
Heavily dine and heavily sup
Of indigestible things full-up, - "
Next month they run the Melbourne Cup,
And I have to dream the winner.
Stoke it in, boys! the half-cooked ham,
Ihe rich ragout and the charming cham,
I ve got to mix my liquor ;
Give me a gander’s gaunt|hind leg,
Hard and tough as a wooden peg, i
And I’ll grease it down with a hard-boiled egg,
Twill make me dream the quicker,
Now I am full of fearful feed,
Now I may dream a race indeed,
In my restless troubled sluinber ;
\V bile the night-mares raco through my heatec
brain
And their devil-riders spur amain, \
lhe tip for the Cup-will roward my pain,
And I’ll spot the winhing number.
Thousands and thousands aha thousands more
Like sands on the white Paciflc'ehofe,
The crowding people cluster'; ’ 1
For evermore it’s the story old,
While races are bought and backed are sold
Drawn by the greed of the gain of iold, ’
In their thousands still they muster.
And the bookie’s cries grow fierce and hot
‘ I’ll lay the Cup ! The double, if. not! ”
4( Five monkeys, Little” John, sir!”
Here’s fivers bar one, I lay, I lay ! ”
And so they shout through the livelong day,
And stick to the game that is sure to pay,
While fools put money on, sir !
And now in my dream I seem to go
And bet with a “ book ” that I seem to
A Hebrew money-lender;
A million to five is the price I get—
Not bad ! but before I book the bet
The horse’s name I clean forget,
His number and even gender.
Now for the start, and here they come,
And the hoof-strokes roar like a mighty drum
Beat by a hand unsteady ;
They come like a rushing, roaring flood,
Hurrah for the speed of the Chester blood !
For Acme is making the pace sb good
There are some of ’em done already.
But round the back she begins to tire,
And a mighty shout goes up “ Crossfire !”
The magpie jacket’s leading ;
And Crossfire challenges fierce and bold,
And the lead she’ll have and the lead she’ll hold,
But at length gives way to the black and gold,
Which away to the front is speeding,
Carry them on and keep it up—
A flying race is the Melbourne Cup,
You must race and stay to win it;
And old Commotion, Victoria’s pride;
Now takes the lead with his raking stride,
And a mighty roar goes far and wide—
“ There’s only Commotion in it!’’
But one draws out from the beaten ruok
And up on the rails by a piece of luck
He comes in a style that’s clever ;
‘ It’s Trident! Trident! Hurrah for Hales!
“ Go at ’em now while their courage fails
“ Trident! Trident! for New South Wales!”
“ The blue and white for ever!”,
Under the whip ! with the ears flat back,
Under the whip ! though the sinews .crack,
No sign of the base white feather;
Stick to it now for your breeding’s sake,
Stick to it now though your hearts should break,
While the yells and roars make the grand-stand
shake,
They come down the straight together.
Trident slowly forges ahead,
The fierce whips cut and the spurs are red,
The pace is undiminished ;
Now for the Panics that never fail!
But many a backer’s face grows pale
As old Commotion swings his tail
And swerves—and the Cup is finished.
* * #
And now in my dream it all comes back;
I bet my coin on the Sydney crack,
A million I’ve won, no question !
Give me my money, you hook-nosed hog !
Give me my money, bookmaking dog !
But he disappears in a kind of fog,
And I wake with “ the indigestion.”
THE BANJO.
WHITE HANDS AND BROWN.
Soft white hands, they rule the world,
The world they never fed ;
They garner the harvests they never sow,
And dole out the ploughman his bread.
Dainty and fair these hands have grown,
Folded in silken sloth ;
For they toil not, neither do they spin,
But they always measure the cloth.
Soft tvhite hands are lined with gold,
And covered with finest of kid,
And there never was lack of tongues to tell
Of the kindly deeds they did •'
They are given to “ prificely charities ”
Flinging the bare picked-bone
Back to the beggared working man's child—
A tithe of what was its own.
Yet hard brown hands behind it all
Keep up life’s engine-fires ;
The strength that is stole from their stinted brain
The statesman’s thought inspires.
They fight the ba t tie t hat others plan.
And find in the spoil no share ;
The wealth of the world thro’ their brown palms
pass,
Yet leaves them empty and bare.
O hard brown hands, go carry the hod
And level the forest down,
And hold your badge of toil as dear
As a king his jewelled crown.
Work on in patient honesty, ~
Hope on, and Heaven speed
The day when hard brown hands shall rule
The nations that they feed.


G -L*ORD JVlr~occjs/on ct o/c/ JD/'/sjf~
* ‘ I say, Bill, wot’s a ‘ reredos ? ’ ”
Bill : “A ‘reredos ’ is a— well, it’s a sort of a kind of a Post Office Curving
—only more so.”
A yearly metamorphosis, Suggested by the Melbourne Cup,
His Fxcellency: “ Well, gentlemen of the Ministry, I have here a petition two miles long praying me to dissolve
Parliament. Now, 1 can do nothing without the advice of my Ministers. So I have sent for you to ask what steps
you would advise me to take in rcgardt o this petition. ’
. Ministers : “ Take steps toward the kitchen fire,
“ Bridget, before you go to bed see that the spoons ate locked «P>
the doors and windows securely fastened, and the dog untied. Car-
liament has been prorogued, and we can’t be too careful with so
many dangerous at large ! ”


6 AM
> O' days YTo-rK to cbocy £tke
fti*>***j ZOAty fo W'CTrk I*JKxaa_ )K.C, finouim s C Qjl.an
6. 30. AW
c S.O'rvQ.y .
n<jihA**q CcHjh <x yro£lC
y. 3 o a*4
°y c fHo/ - ujoJJC
(j ~)Tf\JL CJAajiXjL ©-fa|ll/ iXi , N
ft e>l k. i ii.£j &IGt- ol oooci •<>
moLKiL 'ytno ujtnlc .
$.30
Jtt&r £|l" c)o>f>v Oyyvt) a.|Ov|«-£.*
»K«. W-^ w
<\ .15“
X?Y>r iW Yfcrxk , SOViy 9
v/ho-h ? 4o dcmn tz I KiL (flItcz ft SJJL
Ik* UhJtn , —^ll!'
lsoW
m
. f YVCkiC. 7\t/Y&l yyy+roA- fo n *j[ (AJ^Kot-
W lOH OJtm tb -YCffy\L OM. /
j\ vjs . V
=—‘ •30 PM. J /L 'Jr QfS A cv>*.
SfsLfor 3 hcrvoxJ dj?OM -rn& . JOL
V, tfaj. uf® M~, ZtfV
0 toe .
7- PM
v'Aj tuaH towLr, O
(X, j(yirt J 9 YroU* /o' <jp 0/®
%r**f fQ
FfXIEU Dv o nr*} kcvr v-fiiK
vy . y<7tc &/SL. jQ&ai y uxisisgJj
CcmxAj ’>tsju / ouJ 9 «*
d — b f
“The Thief of Time.”


Society
On Thursday, last week, Lady Carington’s
At Home, at Govei-nment House, Sydney, was
hampered by a charge of one shilling for entrance,
because the Horticultural Society were holding
their show in the Inner Domain, through which
one has to pass on the way to the vice-regal abode.
The cause for sorrow lies in the fact that the
money did not go to help out the Jennings de-
ficiency as it should have done, hut we hope to
see matters better arranged next time. At the
present crisis surely the aristocrats of Potts Point
would not object to pay even half-a-crown to see
her ladyship if they knew that the money was
going to help their bleeding country, the tariff
should therefore be imposed at once. Season tickets
at reduced rates but not transferable, to chorus-
singers. barmaids, and young ladies who, up to
their elbows in the wash-tub all the morning, are
on reception afternoons up to their necks in glory.
Children half-price.
* * *
The price of admission on opening-day to
the Haughty-cultural Show, at Sydney Inner
Domain, was fixed at half-a-crown, which many
people paid out of a loyal desire to gaze on and
brush skirts with Lady Carington. The figure
had been set at that splendid sum so as to restrict
the company within reasonable and fashionable
limits ; in this, however, the device was but
partly successful, a 3 the restriction was so ex- I
elusive that many well-known leaders of fashion
were unable to be present. This should be re-
membered on future occasions if it is really
intended that aristocracy and not more mammon
is to be the test of admission : those who are
really the “be3t” people in Sydney can’t afford
half-a-crown. The opening ceremony took place
at the hour when all good people go to luncheon.
Lady Carington was received by Mayor Young,
who presented her with a bouquet which she
smelt twice, and then declared the show open.
Her ladyship was about to continue her speech,
when an enthusiastic M.P. shouted Out, “Three
cheers for the Queen !” and thus the rest of Lady
Carington’s words are lost for ever. The visitors
then spread themselves through the pavilions and
began smelling all they saw and much that they
didn’t,
* * *
As a flower show, the affair must be
accounted a miserable failure, inasmuch as
though space had been provided for enough
flowers to represent this flower-growing land, only
sufficient were sent to make the tents look empty
and desolate. Great gaps between the pots and
plants showed the white canvas of the walls, and
long wooden benches with perhaps a few pansies
at one end and a spectator or two at the other,
made the scene still more ghastly. However,
some of the exhibits were excellent, the roses
being very fine indeed.
* * *
London Life, commenting on the failure to
raise a testimonial to “ Wales,” mercilessly re-
marks : “ The scheme was to all intents and pur-
poses still-born, for, except among the ignorant
natives of India and the lower classes of Colonials
among whom the thing was energetically pushed
by the officials, it was only recived in a half-
hearted way.” Considering that Sir Jame 3 Martin
helped to boost the thing along in N.S.W., this
allusion to the “lower classes of Colonials”’ can
be only partially atoned for by Niagaras of gore.
We have not yet heard how much the eminent
Chief Justice has raked in. He does not boast
about the total collected—possibly because his
native modesty prevents him from publishing his
brilliant success as a collector of Imperial tip.
* * *
A Sydney club has gone wrong. Once
there was a club, also in Sydney, which, having
eaten itself into debt, determined, on the
suggestion of a certain old warrior of a knight, to
drink itself out again ; this effort, thanks to the
exertions of a number of bottle-nosed members,
was entirely successful. But, the members of
this last impecunious hash-house having drunk
themselves into debt, find that they have to eat
themselves out of the toils of Moses and Abraham.
A £lO “call” has been made on the members,
only about thirty of whom have responded ; the
committee therefore find themselves personally
liable for a deficiency of over £2,000.
* * *
A writer in one of the English society
papers asserts that, although male aristocrats are
getting soberer with every generation, the ladies
are tending to an opposite extreme. He describes
female tippling as a social vice which is becoming
more popular every day, so much so that
confectioners, theatre-managers, and chemists are
extending facilities for its indulgence. Yes, and
we notice that quite a number of portly ladies take
their morning brandy and soda at certain fashion-
able Sydney restaurants.
* * *
The time is rapidly approaching when a
Sydney man about to furnish will buy a six-
shooter even before he purchases a corkscrew.
Burgling is quite common in the suburbs. A
masked man not long ago “ went through ” the
bedroom of Mr. Buchanan, S.M., in the dead of
night. Mrs. Buchanan awakened “his worship”
and drew his attention to the presence of strangers
in the house, but the bold burglar rushed down-
stairs, slammed the door behind him, and
as he, being an expert, had taken the
precaution to tamper with the lock, Mr. Buchanan
was unable until too late to get out of the house
and pursue him. And a week or two since a
burglar entered the bedroom of Mr. and Mrs.
Loughnan, at Woollahra, while the inmates were
asleep, and walked off with over £lOO worth of
jewellery.
* * *
A governess, who had been left a legacy,
bought with her money seven hundred acres "of
mortgaged land in Fiji. The other day, in
Sydney, she tried to raise some cash on the title-
deeds, but on enquiry it transpired that when the
vendor sold her the land it had be'en twice mort-
gaged, and she had no more claim upon it than a
yam. Ladies, when they dabble in business of this
kind, should be keener over it than when they are
beating down the Chinese vegetable-man at the
back door.
It is now the fashion in the very highest
sassiety of Sydney to extensively “assist ’’ the lips
and eyebrows. The fact was painfully evident At
last week’s rose show.
* *
The romance fades at about fourteen
knots an hour when the awful silence of a fellow's
honeymoon is only broken by the hall-bell announc-
ing the arrival of still another dun. Under such
circumstances the bridegroom is apt to break into
language which makes the lights burn blue, and
the lady is found to think him a perfect
brute, and 10 wonder what on earth induced her
to marry him at her time of life. When the next
daughter—if there is one—gets married the affair
won’t create quite such a stir in the best N.S.W.
sassiety. _
* * *
“Colonel” Walker leaves England in a
few days. Another banquet to him is proposed.
* * *
In the North of Ireland, lately, a girl and
her lover lately presented themselves to the priest
to get married. They had no money, and his
reverence suggested that the proceedings should
be adjourned for half-an-hour, during which the
happy pair might contrive to raise a small fee.
The girl straightway proceeded to the priest’s
house, and told the housekeeper that the reverend
gentleman had sent her for his overcoat. The
garment was handed to her, and duly pawned by
her with the local Israelite for 53., with which
she calmly paid the good clergyman.
* * *
The scene is Tattersall’s. Sunday News}
Bailey is present. “ Well, it’s a blanked shame,
and we won’t pay,” said a metallician, “ the
starter had no right to let the horses go a furlong
before the post.” This was enough. The Are of
journalistic fiction burned brightly within its
grate, and the Sabbath-breaker, hearing, drew
his own conclusion. On the day of rest it was an-
nounced thatthe Caulfield Cup had to be run over
again, and a lot of people, merely by spending a
penny, bought for themselves a very miserable
Sunday.
WHY HE LOVED HER.
HE: “DO YOU PLAY THE PIANO.”
SHE: “NO, CAN’T PLAY A NOTE.”
HE: WHAT, NO! THEN I LOVE YOU—WILL YOU BE MINE FOREVERR-R-R.”
Canon Gunther, of Parramatta, is not
happy. He has called attention to the fact that a
member of the Salvation Army married a lass
under 16 years of age, enjoyed slightly interrupted
bliss for two weeks, and then returned his bride,
with thanks, to the Benevolent Asylum. This
has raised the ire of the Canon—who seems to be
not so much annoyed at the girl being sent back,
as at the fact that a clergyman could have been
found who would perform the marriage ceremony
for one so young. But why not ? Have not the
sainted kings and queens been married by bishops
and priests at any age, even at the age of three,
and no Canon ever made the slightest objection?
And as for their being returned to a Benevolent
Asylum, we fancy the Buckingham Palaces of
Europe are nothing more or less, with the
exception of the comfort and the grovel.
* * *
Here is a marvellous fact, illustrative of
the utter rottenness of the N.S.W. military
system. The only increase on the military esti-
mates this year is in the case of Lieut.-Colonel
Spalding, whose pay has, for some mysterious
reason, been raised by some £7O per annum. We
can only presume that the advance is given as a
recognition of the services of the gallant warrior
a mistake in asking them, and they made a m is
take in coming. Before departing they made
Miss Young, the Mayoress, a handsome present of
diamond jewellery.
•* # #
The Sydney clergy made a handsome show
at the Government auction sale of land at the
Field of Mars the other day—every leading
denomination but the Roman Catholic being
represented by one or two of “the cloth.” It is
satisfactory to find, that our little threepennies
mount up, and that, even after providing for the
necessities of the nigger in the New Hebrides,
our spiritual advisers have a “ bit ” laid by in the
stocking for the land-spec account. Earth-hunger
was written in the faces of the holy bidders, who
made things tropical for the unregenerate in their
endeavours to fulfill the prophecy that the meek
parson shall inherit the earth.
* * *
They do these things better in Persia. No
man thinks of murdering a wife of whom he is
tired, but he sends her as a gift to some bachelor
friend whom she has taught to admire her and
who is too courteous to refuse. The Shah sets
this example, and by this means his beloved
spouse of the time being is young, handsome, and I
who so distinguished himself a little while ago b
bringing unproveable accusations against li
subordinate, young Lieutenant Airey. By th
way, isn’t it the etiquette of the Imperial service
f or~a mairwho -Irasmuideisuch-eharges and failet
ito prove them, to resign his commission ?
* * *
On reading the following verses, we wer
much cast down. However, we have sine
bolstered ourselves up with the reflection tha
after all they only appeared in that ruffianly pot
Jbpwsfi paper the London Sporting Times :
A LAY OF A LAG.
( With apologies to “ Little Jack Shepherd.")
O ! MY rum pals, my ben culls, and birrakerg !
My old lags and scampsmen so gay 1
. - My blooming bushrangers and larrikins !
On the Shores of old Botany Bay.
(Sing) Tooral lal looral lal laddidi;
(Abo) Tooral lal looral liday;
(Likewise) Tooral lal looral lal laddidi!
(Not forgetting) Tooral lal looral li day.
In the days of our youth I've a no-shiun
From rectitoods path we did stray;
So they shipped us across the salt o-shiun
To do time at Botany Bay.
Chorius.
But now we’ve returned to these British shores,
Where we 'opes for a long time to stay;
They calls us Colonial Visitors !
Not menshionihg Botany Bay.
.Chorius.
And we p ils on with Dukes, Lords, and Markisses.
Which our manners is strictly O.K.
And they don't make no nasty remarkeses
It vpectu-ing Botany Bay.
: S Chorius.
O ! the fakei they gets up for to please u* is
Quite lovely in every way;
And us all K.C.M.G.eseses,
Which you can’t do in Botany Bay.
* * #
Governor Carington has been travelling
about the country unattended by a single Minister
of the Crown. This is somewhat infra dig.
* * *
The Aldermanic ,1 übilee of IVlayor Young
das been something very like a fizzle. Outside
;he ring no interest whatever has been taken in
these persons’junketings and doings. John made
loving, and his married life is a perpetual honey-
moon. There is no sewing up in sacks, no anti-
mony, no bowstring. The favourite cabinet minis-
ter or general is informed thatTvb Mil be favoured
wifcha"Wife .from- the royal hareffir-aad he smiles
and accepts. The Persians have always been re-
puted a wise people, and their wisdom in the
matrimonial line is suggestive. By the way
Feth Ali-Shah’'grandfather dT-Nusr-Cd-Deer, the
present ruler, left at his death the cognomen
Adam-es-Sani (Adam the Second) and over 600
children. He was the same gentleman who had a
standing offer to all Moslem fathers of Persia to
deliver up to him the fairest and finest of their
female flock, anywhere from nine years up to
eighteen, to be made inmates of hisi enormous
andaroun (harem). The descendants 4f Feth Ali
Shah number at the present day close oh to 16,000
and they are said to be almost without exception
men, women, and children strong in body and
mind. t
* ■ * ' ~ *
In the following will be found the
requisite ingredients for a modern drama: A
young and charming woman, rich and beautiful,
but yesterday the envied of hdr sex,! feels the
approaching moment of her death, and in the last
convulsive agony whispers to her husband
“Dear darling, I am dying. Forgive me, I
implore you, before the fatal hour strikes. You
will be surprised—but—but—l was-I was—un
true to you.” Husband coldly : “My poor wife*
I freely forgive you. Try to die happy. I know
all, and that is why I poisoned you!”
* * *
‘ ‘ The Governor’s footman was in claret
from head to foot”’ gushes a Melbourne paper. It
is satisfactory to notice that when the gorgeous
menials of Sir Henry Loch are “in liquor” their
tipple is so aesthetically mild. By the way, the sicken-
ing Governor-worship of the Melbourne peoDle and
press has surely reached its limit. The other day
a man named Broom was run into gaol for “ in-
sulting behaviour,” his sole offence being that he
had, in his capacity as spokesman for the Mel-
bourne unemployed, insisted on addressing this
well-paid Imperial hireling while the latter was
“ in a hurry.”
* * *
A little pastoral poem was enacted the
other day on Howard Smith’s wharf, Brisbane.
A lady had resolved to elope with a new husband,
and was on th? point of starting ; her two children
and the furniture were also eloping. At the last
moment, however, her lord and boss took her
ashore by her little pink ear, and there was a
tigerish scrimmage, the faithless woman being a
whale-like female of great fighting powers. It
was only at the end of the third round they ob-
served that the steamer was gone, and that the
vile deceiver was gone too, taking the furniture
with him.
* * *
The Hon, W. B. Dailey now flies the
white ensign over his domain at Manly. The
men-of-war do the same—so does the Queen,
ergo —so does W.B.D. This comes of being a P.C.
* * *
It is not long since people were jocosely
warned that peril lurked in the celluloid plate on
which false teeth were grafted, and that the tooth-
brush with celluloid handle might explode and
dash out a careless person’s brains. Maidens were
warned to beware of the celluloid garter, and
ycung men in the habit of hugging their sweet-
hearts were properly impressed with the dangers
of collars and cuff’s of the same material. But all
these possibilities are outdone by the actual death
(reported in the papers to hand by last American
mail) of a woman in broad day and in an open
street by the explosion of her celluloid “ improver ”
and the burning of her garments. It would be
ludicrous, if it were not so horrible. ,
* * #
One George Haynes has been sued by his
wife for support, and in his reply the unhappy
man sets forth that he only abandoned the domes-
tic altar when his wife insisted upon taking a
butcher’s knife to bed with her. He had endured
beatings in silence and had only gently protested
against the prongs of a fork being stuck in his
back ; but he drew the line at butcher’s knives.
The point seems to be well taken. A knife is an
unpleasant bedfellow, even when lovely woman
handles it. It is even worse than the pipe and to-
bacco, to which some unfeeling wives object.
What is a crying need of the hour, is a code of
matrimonial ethics which will specify where the
line is to be drawn in all cases. Sir Alfred
Stephen might with advantage make the formula-
tion of such a code the “ crowning work ” of his
career.
* * *
The Sydney ‘‘dailies’’ are quite excited
in re a female goat brought from the New Hebrides
by the crew of the victorious Opal, and now to
be seen on board that vessel by the curious and
patriotic. The capture of this wonderful animal
by the dare-devils of the navy recalls the bloody
carnage attendant on the annexation of the
Soudan donkey. It is suggested that this last-
acquired trophy of valour shall be retained in the
colony and given into the custody of the Little
Boy at Manly. The Echo even goes so far as to
suggest that it should be “ judiciously crossed ”
with our own merino sheep. But if the colony
really wants to retain a lasting memento of its
military successes in Africa and elsewhere, why
not cross the Opal goat with the Soudan donkey
and utilise the offspring a? chargeahs for the
Sydney Lanceahs ?
On Sunday evening, the 19th, the last of
the “ Reunions” was brought to a termination at
Need’s Rooms by a fancy dress ball. Fully 160
persons were present. A lovely Fairy appeared
in spotless white ; and two Daughters of the Regi-
ment were equally charming.
* * *-
During the progress of Mayor Young’s
Municipal Jubilee he got into some rather queer
company. On one occasion, coffee was being
handed round, and when the sugar-basin was
passed to a country magnate that individunl took
a large handful in his dubious-looking paw and
dropped it into his cup. A pressman who was
looking on waited anxiously to see him stir the
beverage with his finger, but it was too hot.
Neither could he stir it with his boot, for that ob-
ject was much too large, so he was reluctantly
compelled to fall back upon the spoon.
* * *
Dr. William Morris, who will bo much
missed in scientific circles, goes to England by the
Massilia. Dr. Morris, who has made a large for-
tune in Sydney, and who now thinks of living in
permanent retirement with his friend the micro-
scope, has sold his practice and library to the
popular Dr. K. I. O'Doherty of Home Rule fame.
* * *
The Sydney Echo in reporting a flower-
show, says “ The Hon. Mrs. M ,of ■,
Darling Point, exhibited three plants, See.” What


we want to know is, does the wife of an M.L.C.
claim the //0a.,, or is The Echo at its old games 1
In the same connection we may mention. that-tbc
wife of a foreigner, who is emphatically not a
Baron, has on her cards Lady A.ViB ! —l and
insists '■ oh her Sydney friend's Mayaafiß# her in
that manner. . '
How the only Bimlelt will Wiulssed by
Queens and duchesses can be gathered from the
following item : . ■’.
At a reception given by the Duchess ,of Westminster at
u/rpsyenor House recently^ others present : were Mr.
R. Burdett Smith, M.L.A., of .'Sydney, and Miss Emily
Burdett Smith. J
But possibly he will remain at homo and turn
duke. Some men will turn anything.
* * .■* * ,
According to the London correspondence
of a Melbourne paper, a lot of wretched and un-
willing slaves to their head-gear are plaintively
beseeching the 'Prince of Wales-to leave off wear-
ing a chimney-pot. It is the misfortune of these
poor grovellers that . the first .'gentleman in
Yurrup can t afford to bring -any .‘other, class of
tile into ‘‘ fashion.” The chimney-pot. wa3 in the
oy inion, pf The’ Bulletin specially sent by. Provi-
dence fpr the benefit of everyday. - commonplace,
unpicturesque mortals like Bertie. Such as he
are in the habit of saying! that “ no .ontf; looks a
gentleman (walking pr driving) without a silk hat
on.” The theory suits well. /W/hat/.they really
mean is that a cbimney-pot mhkereveryhody else’
look like them. Tdo true. Tt; has’/tIR) peculiar
power of preventing a bright-faced- ; dptell@ctual
man from appearing smarter-than an expression-
less fool. At the same time, Up! hpavy, hot, ill-
shapen, and inconvenient chimnoy-pot invests the
expressionless one with a certain ahiburit of dull
respectability. In any other hat . he- Stands re-
vealed in all his native hideousness. It : does for
him what long hair did for the “Patriarch-” of
Dickens’ Little Dorrit. ’ When Mr. i’aucks cut.
off the Patriarch’s, dignifying tresses, beholders
fled from the old man, horror-stricken. And; if-the
ordinary wearer of the chimney-pot were to ven-
ture his head inside a “ slouch,” or a billycoick) ! he !
would lose the respect of his family for ever; -We
have seen a photograph of Bertie taken in a' billy-
cock and a weak moment, and Welcredit him -with
sufficient sense of the ludicrous to make him stick
to his chimney, till death do them qart.
* ... *
.On Tuesday evening, 19th inst., Mrs.
Delohery gave a very successful dance at her
‘ residence, Macleay-street, when over 100 guests
wei-e present. Dancing was kept up until after
- a.m. Black dresses were very plentiful. Miss
Delohery was a success in : a very; pretty and
becoming dress of white satin with draperies of
tulle. Miss Anderson (Brisbane) wore a prettv
ana effective gown of buttercup satin mixed with
white brocaded satin. Mrs. W. Manning, pale
yellow surah, profusely trimmed ' with same
Coloured lace. Mrs. Bouse, a becoming gown of
pale blite silk. Mrs. Jacobs, a stylish dress of
bright yellow silk with quantities of lace draperies.
Mrs. KirWan, a combination of black and blue
Silk. There werd also present, Mr. and Mr’s. P.
B. Walker,-the Misses Hili,'the Misses Hall, Miss
Wilkinson, Mrs. and Miss Terry, Mrs. and Miss
Roberts, Miss Backhouse arid many others.'
During the evening the daughter of the hostess
sang one or two songs with very good effect. ;
* * #
Lord St. Leonards is now shedding the
light of his countenmce on Sydney sas3iety. His
lord;-uip is travelling incognito as “Mr. Wilkin-'
son,” i
* * y. ;
Thus a London-lady writer:—“A really
sensible woman will not employ those abominable
steel corsets to squeeze her waist, but will lepvo
that tn3k to the muscular arm of the gentleman
whom she favours with her, smiles. I. have been
assured by very competent persons that there is
little or no satisfaction in compressing these steel-
lined waists, because of their lack of elasticity. A
hug to bring joy, unspeakable joy, to th e hugger,
and a corresponding amount of grati fixation to
the huggee, must be performed on a yielding, sur-
face. Then the quality of the pre3sur c can 1 be
carefully guaged, and the lady herse ii become
aware of the lover’s ardour. Bra t with a
tightened-up waist all the suqeezing is second-
hand, and the swain is chilled by the conviction
that the corset has the best of the business, while
«e-is but a mechanical-an'd unrewarded agent.”
■ ’ *- r * !v •' ” ***■-'■ ■ . ,
:vAt;, Lady Carington’s,, f ‘ At ” on
Thursday- afternoon, last some new pretty
aretes were noticeable. Her lad.vshjji . wore a
neat and becoming gown of navy tduc,,.bonnet.i o
fiiatch. Mrs. Par yes,, a -splendid bluA and pink
cyepe dress,'.with French bpnpfit of .pale blue tulle
,aud dark red' crushed-j-osps. Mri. ,C. Hogg,
cream surah, with palp. blue, welvet tripimings,,.
white tulle bonnet. Miss Essie Jqnyns, a stylish
gown of striped grey and black, wijhsinail jacket
or black velveteen. Miss Kahlo, ..u.pink’and cream
erfipe dress, stylish white Rat. /'Mrs. .Wise, white
Chinese silk, with amber satin sash!" Mrs, Joseph,
handsome black .costume. Miss Joseph,"
elaborate dress of .black with pale pink satin
As the‘flower show was being carried on
" l . he same time in the inner domain, it , had been
arranged that one shilling should be charged to all,
and visitors might enter the Government Hrnyse
gardens. The intention was kind, but the result
eertairdy unfortunate, as the public, that is to say
loyal ” multitude which is somewhat unac-
customed to tread gently among bric : a-brac, took
tms to mean that they were given' the run of her
ladyship’s drawing-rooms, and that it was in-
tended they should “cut and come])”
again at her cakes and tea. Hundreds who had
not in their wildest dreams expected to share in
such a show crowded into the rooms.! Some of
® more inquisitive opened everything that was
ot locked, tried the'springs of the sofas andarm-
lr3 > an< i at length made such a plunge on the
oireshments as to break upwards of twenty plates
nd C . U PS of rare value. The Governor and his wife
nrtamly showed themselves at their best, and
msplayed no annoyance.
* * *
A Jviverina undertaker, who figured as co-
in a divorce suit lately tried in Sydney
l ' ilc h a hard-hearted jury mulct him in sundry
Pounds damages;Tor the’alienation of the
lOllB °f the petitioner’s wife, has, by a bold
T, 0 011 tbs part, effectually got out of payment,
hn ? ledl ®!tely the trial was over he tore
lO,Ile ’ sold all his property, and
th^ lng annexed the. proceeds -left a note for
Petitioner wishing him all happiness that
in» J^ BSI - le (without the company of his charm-
in . wlf e- of course), and calmly glided
rn ,,r,, ltdona - The. ca.se-altogether is a pretty
*°. ne , f or the Petitioner, for it practically
tin»- liat he has to bear all the expense of get-
' marrv u ecree vvhich enables his errant wife to
marry -her paramour* . ,
4 OCLOCK TEA
A Village Fair, is to be,held on 30th inst. at Neutral Bay in
aid Pjtqhelp.earchurch'fund.
At; fjuristone 'College, Ashiield, on Thursday evening, a
very successful dance'tpok place;' ; ;
On Friday night 11. K. and Indy Oarington attended the
perforiliiiiice ofit' Billee Taylor'! at the Theatre'Royal.
: ‘ Mrs.;Larig‘fy,” we read, “is becoming fat, despite hours
•of fun pits'practice dkily with foils ahd, Indian clubs.”
Tliii.eldest'da'u'ghter of Mr. Jaiirei Service, l>/ exii > femier of
Victoria, has been married in LtfMfenfto Mr. Thdjueman. '
Mrs. Fred.,Cape' had a successful'!''small'aiid barly ” at her
Edgccliffe-road, on Thursday evening, the 21st.
Wheri'are we going to see a parade of the Sydney Scottish
Rifles ? According to last report they were getting their leg-
pads ready.
The ladies’ ball, which was held in the Petersham Town
Hall on Friday evening, the 22nd, was voted by all present
, an disqualified success.
li&n'.'sec. of I 'the Ly-ee-Moou Fund writes us toi the
effect itljat he <received’ £s 11s. 9d. from the Sydney “Girls
High School,” in June last.
Mr, and Mrs. Eatl-, 1 -‘of Dawes Point, Sydney, delighted
their friends with a dance on the 20th inst. The hostess
... wqre blue nun’s veiling.
FOLLOWING! THE FASHION.
OFFICE BOY No. [?]I SAY, JIM, I'VE GOT MY WAGES IN ADVANCE FOR NEXT
WEEK.”
OFFICE-BOY No.: “WHY, BILL, WHAT’S YER LITTLE GAME?
O.-B. No. “WHY YOU OWL DON'T YER TWIG? I’M A-GOIN’ TO HABSCOND.”
Daw&op, of ourwood, a very pleasant
aabcetOne eve'mngtast weeky at wnich'a number of Sydney
and suburban visitors wers present.
. • Therp -w-is a ,mest v successful,- social in the Walgett
(NdS. y^^aistricftecenthfM>. lesk than 12 ladies were pre-
sent and one gerftlfemhn, tmeifatter deaf.
• I-adydin small djRaMfV stoop).;.! ‘ ‘ I will look at your material
for towels.’ Clerk (recently transferred from the dress de-
partment): “ Yes, ma’am ; sometning that won’t show dirt ?”
The death b# Obtonel-Raymon’d will be regretted by;many.
He was a good, genial man, and greatly beloved by his men,
many'itfriffjnds he had made during a long and
honourable' career. ' > >
A NewcasUe.paper writes Handsome presentation last
night to ! ime Mayoress of Sydney. A pleasing souvenir of
her courtesy and kindness, and of her worthy husband’s
exceptional-hospitality. ”
i A concert iwas given at Hurstviile last week. The chair
was occupied by Mr. Judd, M.L.A. We confess this is the
first time ywe. have heard of Mr. Judd, M.L.A., and the
second of Hurstviile. The concert was a success.
On Friday, last week, Mrs. C. J. Roberts, Chatsworth,
Rotts I oint, gave a pleasant impromptu dance. Amonest
the guests were Mr. Wallington, Captain Sherriffe, Mr.
Leslie Ogilby, Mr. Cotton, Miss Wallace, Misses Hill, etc.
She was a crank on the subject of music. A gentleman
knocked at her door and asked : “ Does Mr. Smith live
here ? ‘ No, sir_; his room is an octave higher—in the next
flat, she replied in a pianissimo andante tone of voice.
Miss Lowneck— 11 Dear me, lamso so sorry T can’t go to
the hop to-night.” Sympathising Friend—“ Why ? What’s
the matter ?” Miss L.—“ Why, myt’dear, ; I fell against
the chair this morning, and bruised myself right in the small
of the back.”
English exchanges report the wedding of Major-General
R. R. Gipps, C. 8., only son of the late Sir George Gipps, once
Governor of N.S.W., to Miss Evelyn Pielden, second
daughter of the late Col. Pielden. The ceromony took place
at Bebington, Cheshire.
Buyers of wedding presents who are hesitating upon the
merits of appropriate articles for purchase might be pleased
with the presents selected by a nice old lady. She sent a
pair of Halt-irons, a rolling-pin, A,nd a motto worked on card-
board, reading, “ Fight On."
The Duke of Portland, the most 11 eligible ” young man in
England, recently prevented, by the threat of criminal pro-
ceedings, the publication in a so-called society organ of the
r "‘ “
’iV'' of ladies and gen-
an mmcm thp ?, r ,V a £, d M * B - Shewen, Lyons-terrace, by
brmiX • th fact they had c °me to dance and had
and n er ' r The y wereadrnitted, and danced
auu xeastea until near daylight the following morning.
Doorest'shnw^f 8 fr ° m Newr ° a »tlG are said to have made the
apoplectic crowl JLS 3 dubilee Y ™ n S'» gorged and
f ishion of SL lhe ? dld uot B V°J. t any robes of office, the
in and g thJv d m £? IC,| ? al dish-clout being unknown
the lot ' ’ dth y Uld only raise one tail-coat among.
I iver w r i3 t£ in Cha Th err ! ,ai nr‘V Mar> ;' t his is tho Quietest house
i «ver was in. Ih- landlord and his wife must live lik«
since Vvl w'®!? to ?? th A r : 1 h Wu’t heard one single sound
Mr Sni th hni w?' Mary- ' That's all very nice just now,
“ , ■ y' but wait till they make friendi again Tnev
1 other sfficef foHQ,shfc ag0 ’ and thoy haven't spoken to each
rece U mJv YaiS d ’m f »f N ,in * S if nt<?, . ,cing . a man at Auckland,
ntaceS “Vsf that ! Inc ®. the alterations in the law have
ran no lf K Ury of a dlv orce within a man's reach, there
if® an excase ,r resorting to firearms to get
rid of an adulterous wife. The pious N.Z. papers drop with
he we'ghtof adead elephant on the Judge for talking of
the luxury of a divorce. ’ 8
' Ou lilst lust. Mr. ilayley, of HKsf NelsohTgave a riding
d ilfeffin P^ y ’a and m tbe evening a theatre party to see
, Billets laylor. Among his guests on each occasion were
Mr. and Mrs. Q. Knox, Mr. S. Stephen and Mis 3 Stephen
the Misses Manning, Miss Blomfield, Miss Robertson, Mrs
« r \r i ‘ I ' ei i < ; h ' Cai, tain Brooke, Mr. Allison, Miss
Suttor, Mr. Maearthur, Lord Bertie, the Misses Watt, &c.
~' Vbe J an English labourer knocks over a hare or a rabbit
the bitter wail of the Tory is heard throughout the land
In Kent, last August, a man got four weeks’ hard labour
tor this crime, and it was considered he had been let off
easily. The next case was that of a ruffian who met a young
married woman in a lane and wanted to kiss her • on her re-
sisting he administered a terrible beating with a stick, and
the J.r. was so much shocked that he sent him up for
1 days.
The impious Rabouohere has seen a copy of the Town and
Country Journal, aud proceeds to jibe at the “ Peeress ”
who writes therein. He casts doubt upon this “Peeress’”
(the daughter of a duke), whom he sarcastically calls an
eminent authority," and utterly ridicules her little tales
about the diamond latch-keys of the Prince of Wales. We
are glad that he doubts the latch-key. If any irregular
conduct were proved against 11 Wales" our happiness would
i be gone for ever.
A young lady of pyramidal assurance advertises in a
London paper that she is an orphan well born and well edu-
cated, without encumbrances, and wishes to meet some one
above ths age of of 50 to take a real interest in her, and pro-
vide her with a home. The philanthropist m st be a Gonser-
vat've, a member of the Church of England, and must take
the communion regularly, but it is indispensable that he or
she should be of Evangelical opinions. Here is a golden
chance lost to Libirals, but what an opening for middle-aged
Tories!
A gruesome tale comes from the Swiss
Alps. A party of guides were searching for some
lost excursionists and found a corpse in a
crevasse. It was that of a man dressed in the
flapped waistcoat, knee-breeches, buckled shoe 3,
&c., of the last century, and of the coins which
still remained in his pockets none bore a later date
than 1765. The body was frozen hard, and as it
lay in a cavern deep down in the icy pit it had
suffered no injury. Even the eyes preserved their
life-like expression, though they had been staring
out for 100 years from that lonely cave as if look-
ing for the relief which was so long in coming.
The Salvation Harmy is exhibiting some
preliminary symptoms of a general break-up of its
constitution. Not only in England is the sub-
scription supply running short and mutiny becom-
ing fashionable, but even in Australiat, he happy
hunting ground of cranks, the gilt seems to be
wearing off the Harmy gingerbread. Colonel
Barker is starting a “ Colony Thanksgiving and
Debt Extinction Fund” in Victoria. This sounds
ominous. It is the first muttering of the storm.
Ere long we shall be hearing of the bailiffs being
put into a barracks during knee-drill, and of un-
secured hallelujah creditors getting twopence in
the pound.
AN OPEN SECRET.
C ome all you jolly shepherds that whistle through
the glen,
L et me tell you all a secret, some courtiers dinna
ken ;
A Scottish invitation that, just borrow'd for the
rhyme,
U nacknowledged theft of verse is a paltry sort of
crime.
S ummer’s coming. It is, here. In a week at
most,
E very public in the country, every steamer on
the coast,
N ow arrivals, old colonials, of each the best and
worst;
S oon will own the soft imp eachment of a forty -
dollar thirst.
L eather medals, bogus prize claims, don’t quench
that thirst at all,
A genuine honest drink is the one great earnest
call:
G ood for brain as well as body, bright, tasty,
clear, and good ;
E ach thirsty soul is hankering for that more than
food.
R ight queer are the dodges, right sorrowful the
jokes,
B orn of flat insipid beer, and the pains that it
provokes ; l
E very day that murmur rises. On the other
hand you hear,
E ach father, brother, husband, who keeps his
senses clear,
R epudiate all other brands for CLAUSEN’S
, LAGER BEER.
WHAT SOME VICTORIANS THINK
ABOUT CLAUSEN’S LAGER BEER.
“HARDLY ANY OTHER ORDERED.”
Mr. William O’Neil, lessee of the Cathedral
Hotel, Swanston-street, Melbourne says:—“We
pronounce Clausen’s Beer a great success. All
our patrons praise it highly, and are discontinuing
all othor brands in its favour. In our luncheon
rooms hardly any other beer is ordered. Its con
ditibn is very reliable; we have never met a flat
bottle, nor noticed any breakage.”
“A PLEASURE TO SELL.”
Mr. William Ramsay, of Phair’s Hotel, Collins-
street, says “ Clausen’s New York Lager Beer
is greatly appreciated by my customers because of
its sparkling condition and really pleasant flavour.
It is a pleasure to sell it, because of the approval
it meets with.”
“FINE QUALITY.”
Mr. John O’Hagon, of the Sandhurst Hotel
Sandhurst, says “ I And Clausen’s Ale of fine
quality, sparkling, and free from sediment. It
gives great satisfaction to all my customers.”
“THE MOST POPULAR.”
Mrs. Marion Lane, of the City Club Hotel,
Collins-street, says “ Without any reservation,
Clausen’s Lager Beer is the most popular bottled
I have ever had on sale. Every one praises its
brilliancy, lightness, and flavour, and the sale of
it is increasing daily.”
“ VERY ACCEPTABLE.”
Mr. C. Foster, of the well-known “George”
Hotel, Lydiard-street, Ballarat, says:—“The
general opinion of my customers about Clausen’s
Lager Beer is highly favorable. It is pronounced
to be very acceptable in flavour, and while i
possesses an appetising bitter of delicate purity
and excellence, and is as clear as champagne, it is
free from the sediment which generally chara
terises much of the Lager Beer I have seen in
Victoria.”
“THE FINEST LAGER.”
Mr. F. Wilkins, of that renowned old hostelry,
“The Shamrock,” at Sandhurst, in forwarding a
large re-order for Clausen’s Lager Beer to his
Melbourne agents, says “ This beer gives im-
mense satisfaction here, and is certainly the finest
Lager I have come across during my 20 years’
hotel experience.”
“FINE QUALITY AND POPULARITY.”
Messrs. J. and H. De Groot, lessees of the Rail-
way Refreshment Rooms at Seymour, say:—“We
have much pleasure in testifying to the fine
| qualities of Clausen’s Lager Beer, also to its being
! the popular brand with the travelling public on
the North-Eastern line.”
“ GREAT SATISFACTION.”
Mr. W. H. Pavier, proprietor of the Dimboola
Hotel, Dimboola, under cover of a large re-order,
writes :—“I find Clausen’s New York Lager Beer
gives great satisfaction to my customers, being a
jight, mild, and clear ale.”
“PREFERRED TO ANY OTHER BRAND.’ 1
From the Foresters’ Hotel, Stawell, Mr. J.
Gawley, writes : —“ My customers prefer Clausen’s
Champagne Lager Beer to any other brand in the
market, and they consider it the most suitable
beer for this climate.”
“ESTIMABLE QUALITIES.”
Mr. Robert Tyler, of the Union Tavern Hotel,
St. Arnaud, says:—“Clausen’s New York Lager
Beer is truly a beautiful, sparkling, andinvigorat
ing stimulant, having all those estimable qualities
found in the best English bottled beers. As a
beverage for invalids, it is invaluable, for it is so
mild that-it can be taken without affecting them
in the least. Those who have tasted it here speak
highly in its favour.”
CLAUSEN’S BEER IS SOLD
by Messrs. Mason Bros., limited, Fesq and Co.,
Tooth and Co., Allt and Co., Burrows and Gleeson
S. Bennett and Co., Lucas Bros., Cornellion and
Co., R. Butcher and Co., J. T. and J. Toohey and
Co., Tidswell, Wilson and A Thompson and Co.
C. Bath and Co., Cooper, Nathan, and Co., Darcy
and Co., A. Rowan and Co., Tucker and Co.,
and Stewart and Co., H. Harry, Petersham, and
others.
It is kept in all first-class hotels in the city and
suburbs, and throughout the colonies.


THE LIVER IN THE SPRING.
The liver, located on the right side, below the
right lung, its lower edge being direct ly under the
short ribs, and-extending across te the left side,
is net only the largest gland of the body, but is
one of the most complex in its workings, and, like
a delicate piec3 of machinery, is easily thrown out
of order. Upon its proper action depends the
mental and ph sical welfare of the body. Any
one of the following symptoms indicates its de-
part ure from health
Symptoms.—Headache, salliw complexion,
gradually increasing constipation, disinclination
to exertion vertigo, d zziness, highly coloim d
urine, a “splendid’’ feeling to-day, and a depressed
one to-morrow; pain under ei.tbet shoulder, and
under ribs on the tight side ; neuralgia, pain of
chest, heartburn, indigestion, enlargement of side
below the ribs, dropsy of the abdomen, dry mouth;
brown, flabby tongue ; occasional chills, hot flushes
moth patches on the face, yellowish eyeballs, sick
headache, frequent vomiting of bitter matter ;
piles, caused by congestion of the liver; severe
spasmodic pain in upper part of abdomen, relieved
by pressure, li’ccough, jaundice, c’ay-coloured
stools, sour stomach variable appe’ite. irritability
of temper, diarrhoea, dysentry, burning palms and
feet, dry cough, sleeplessness.
Tne diseases which are indicated by any of the
above symptoms are jaundice, gall stones, e: -
largemeat, contraction, congestion, inflammation,
abscess, tumours, hydatids, catarrh, of the ducts,
fatty accumulation, cancer, malaria, and last but
not least, biliousness, which is so common in this
country with both sexes.
History.—During winter, Nature wisely arranges
that we should live on foods containing much fat,
or, as they are knowD, hydro-carbons, for the
purpose of supplying heat to the body; the
chemical operation necessary to transform fat into
heat is the exclusive work of the liver, and so
during the time stated it is constantly congested.
With the approach of warm weather our diet
changes to muscle-producing food, and the work
of the liver is much lessened. In the majority of
eases, however, it is unable to completely thi’ow
off the excess of bile, but remains congested, caus-
ing that lazy, tired feeling which many have in the
spring months, when the weather becomes warm.
This is evidence of an unhealthy condition, and
though people appreciate the necessity of an altera-
tive at this period, the common idea is to take
drastic phis and produce a cathartic etl’ec’. only
to make matters worse The liver must be un-
loaded, and its proper action restored before ho’
weather, if you wish to preserve health, and if
this distinct call of nature is unheeded, serious re-
sults will occur. The b'ood will become loaded
with bile and lithic acid, and as every drop of
vital fluid passes through the kidneys to be puri-
fied, they soon break down, and arc rendered un-
able to carry out the deadly poison.
Treatment. Warner’s safe cure and Warner’s
safe pills have not only a specific action on the
kidneys, but on the liver also. - They thin the
thickened bile so that it will pass out through its
duct*, and so enable the glands to unload them-
selves, act as a solvent on all biliary acids, and,
in a word, fit the liver for the season’s work, pre-
venting blood poisoning, inflammation, abscess,
and all affections to which it is so liable. As you
value the blessings of health, do not allow the
summer to approach without giving your system a
“general house-cleaning” with Warner’s safe
remedies. “To he farwarned is to be forearmed.”
ETIQUETTE OF THE UMBRELLA.
The new and approved
style of exhibiting your
good feeling towards your
fellow-citizens on a rainy
day.
The familiar old style.
A sadly-needed inven-
tion—the go-it-alone um-
brella.
The Judge.
An alleged huge gold discovery has been
made at Jindera, Albury.
A Welsh editor has been committed for
trial for libelling a dead man.
Wine !—Reliable Old Australian Wines, selected vintages,
for invalids, families, and connoisseurs. Only Sold by
Hockings, 143 Pitt-street.
WINTRY WINDS.
It is all right for poets to sing the praises of the beautiful
snow, and the merry sleigh beds, and the ringing skates of
the glassy ice, but they can’t fill the bill with that sort of stuff
when one is sitting with his feet in a tub of hot water, his
head done up in flannels, and with mustard plasters on both
sides of his chest. What a person needs then is a thorough
dose of Dr. Bell’s Bitters to act as a cathartic, for nothing
will so quickly relieve that congestive, feverish condition
which comes of a hard cold. Often these colds cause bilious
attacks, lame backs, disordered kidneys, rheumatism, catarrh,
&c. Dr. Bell’s Bitters can be relied on to bring back a
healthy condition.
- A young lady, the other evening dreamt that
she was riding, and that the horse was running
away, die jumped, and fell from the bed to the
floor, dislocating her shoulder. This is, so to
speak, a case of being thrown from a night mare.
But still the finest assortment of woollen goods,
from British and Colonial mills, are being shown
by SUMMERFIELD and COMPANY, merchant!
tailors, 235 and 237 Pitt-street, Sydney. Country
residents should write for patterns, &c., sent post
free on application.
Premier ball-room decorators of New South Wales. Sale
and Dare, decorators. Ball and banquet rosms tastefully
decorated with flag and floral decorations, 60i Hunter-street
Sydney. *
GOLD MEDALS.
To refute the audacious statements made by
other brewers of American Lager Beer, who
advertise that they have taken first honors at
various world exhibitions, the Anheuser Busch
Brewing Association of Sr. Louis, who alone took
first honors at Philadelphia, Paris, Amsterdam,
&c., &c., have sent their gold medals and diploma;
for inspection by the Australian public. They
are now on view at our office, 11 1 Pitt-street.
BUTCHER, FEHON and CO.,
Sole Agents for St. Louis Lager Beer.
Mittchell’s old established and reliable original
reform chemist shop, 141 King-street, was recently
purchased by A. A. Rigney, of Bega, who will
conduct both establishments on the standard prin-
ciples for which he is well known.
Certainly one of the most successful City Hotels, in respect
of first-class Wines, Spirits, &c., and with regard to Lun-
cheon, is Hanney’s Great Northern Hotel, Charlotte-place.
A first-class Luncheon Is provided from 12 to 5, which is
p ktronised by the commercial men in this part of the city.
Just make one call, and we are sure you will he satisfied.*
“ WEAR-RESISTING FABRICS.’’—Wo intend
to rigorously proceed against various unscrupulous
firms, who arc advertising “ wear-resisting"
materials for hoys’ clothing, this being our
registered trade mark, and the guarantee to the
public of the magnificent value, cut, style and fit
of our ce’ebrated boys’ an l youths’ suits. Our
new summer goods now opening, and. of extra-
ordinary value, including beautiful man-o-war
suits, complete, Bs. lid. stumnerfield and Co., the
juvenile outfitters, 235 and 237 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A Good Remedy for a Cold.— On going to bed
take a dose of Freeman’s Chlorodyne, either in
water or camphor mixture. The diaphoretic action
of this excellent remedy speedily produces a
general glow, followed by a free perspiration, dur-
ing which the pulse improves in character from a
feeble to a full, elastic one, a good night’s sleep is
obtained, and on waking in the morning the cold
will be found to have dissapeared. The certainty
of the action of Freeman’s Chlorodyne is very re-
markable in Ague; it frequently prevents an
attack, or, failing this, reduces the violence of the
ague fit to a minimum. In many countries Free-
man’s Chlorodyne has entirely superseded the use
of Quinine, and in the tea gardens of India noth-
ing else is given for Ague and other forms of Fever.
Insist upon having “Freeman’s” only. Trade
mark, an Elephant,—obtainable from all chemists
and storekeepers.
Mr. Jones,” said the Manager, with cold severity to
Accountant, while all the tellers and ledger-keepers pricked
up their ears at his tone and manner, “ The Inspector is in
my room and wishes to have a word with you.” When Jon*,
entered the manager’s room I e was followed by that offinn?
who carefully closed the door after him, there was a buzz in
the bank. “ What’ } Jones being up to?" "I always sairfwS
fiddle with the securities, flist chance,” and so forth »
whispered round. ’
d'ones found the Inspector seated in awful state i n the
manager’s chair.
“ Your salary,” Mr. Jones, said the Inspector, referring to
some notrs"is £450 a year.”
“’lt is,” faltered Jones, who didn’t like the boss’s tone.
“And you have to maintain a wife and five children r
think ’ ' 1
“Yes, sir.”
“Your eldest daughter is quite a grown-up young lady,
“Quite so" stammered Jones, growing red “and pale Ira
turns. *
“ lam informed that you have no private source of income
Mr. J ones.
‘I have rot, sir,
“ Then, Mr. Jones, you will not be surprised when I inform
you that representations have been made to the bank, that
your wife and daughter habitually wear jewellery, when In
evening dress, of a class and costliness which is plainly in.
compatible with your means. I should like to know Mr
Jones, where you derive the money to purchase these beautil
ful and expensive articles I hear of. They can’t be family
heirlooms, for I have the best information that the designs
are m the most recent taste."
Poor Mr. Jones ceased to stroke the bald place on the back
of his head, and his eyes flashing fire, he retorted warmlv
so you considered me a thief because my wife and mv
daughter wear such decorations os help to set off their at-
tractions. Do you think sir that your wife and your daughter
monopolize the right to such embellishments. Sir the
jewellery which sets off the lovliness of my daughter and the
matro/Uy dignity of my wife, to the point of exciting the
jealofis spitefulness of your daughter and wife (for I under-
stand -now whence you derive your information) is Oriental
Gold Jewellery. It is a s beautiful as the oostliest articles and
yet its trifling cost enables my wife and daughter to appear in
the same society as yours without disadvantage and without
my being guilty of the thefts which you generously suspected
me guilty of. Your questions and your suspicions, your
manner and your attitude are alikv insulting. I tender you
here my resignation and I have to inform you that my
daughter iv next month to be married to Mr. Woolsworth
who has also asked me to accept the management of his
financial affairs, at a salary, sir, which your own manager
doek not enjoy I I wish you good morning, sir."
“Just to think,” grumbled the Inspector's plain, Bour
daughter that evening when her father had told her the event
of the morning and stormed at her and her mother for placing
him in so false a position; “just to think that it's all owing
to that Oriental Gold being so lovely and so cheap. To
snatch young Woolworth from under my very nose too.”
LADIES OF SYDNEY.
TT behoves every thrifty housewife to
look to the future, in order if pos-
sible to
SAVE MONEY.
It is a well-known fact that a large in-
crease has occurred in the price of wool at
home, and it is only to be expected that
prices of Woollen Goods will be higher
next winter than they are this ; so that if
any of you will be requiring
NEW BLANKETS
next winter, how much better to buy them
now, and save the inevitable increase in
price.
Those who have bought blankets from
this winter know what excellent value we
have been giving, and we feel sure that if
YOU do so also you will never regret it.
OUR PRICES ARE—
4s. lid., Ss. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. lid., Bs. 6d.,
10s. 6d., 12s. 6d., 14s. 6d., 15s. 6d.,
18s. 6d., 205., 255., 305., and
up to 50s. a pair.
HORDERN BROTHERS
(HORDERN’S IN PITT STREET),
211 PITT STREET.
RUSTON PROCTOR & CO.’S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
“ TRIUMPH ” THRASHING MACHINES.
Simon’s Roller System of Flour Milling.
Sole Agents:
E. C. ELLIOTT & CO.,
547 KENT STREET, SYDNEY
Theatre royal.
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgp.ove.
Lessee, Mr. Sam. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. G.
L. Goodman. Stage Manager, Mr. John Wallace.
Doors open at 7.30 ; commence at 8 ;
carriages, 10.30.
WILLIAMSON, GARNER, and MUSGROYE’S
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
(now in the lifth year of its existence).
THE SORCERER and TRIAL BY JURY,
will he repeated TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY)
and following
SEVEN NIGHTS ONLY,
as the final production of the season must follow
on Saturday, 6th November.
Prices—Dress Circle, ss. ; Stalls, 3s, ; Upper
Circle, Is. Box Plan open at Theatre daily from
10 till 5. Tickets for all parts at Eastway’s Hotel.
Alhambra music hall,
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp.
THE GREATEST SUCCESS OF THE DAY.
Deafening Applause meets our
Great Australian Comique,
Mr. W, B. WARNER.
Also, the American Dancers and Song and Dance
Artists,
The RILEY BROTHER®,
Songs of Minstrelsy and Mirth
EVERY EVENING.
Popular Prices: Orchestra Chairs, 25.; Stalls
Is. ; Balcony, 6d.
Grand Concert Splrituel Every Sunday Evening
at 7.30.
Academy of m u sic.
Lessee* ... ... Mr. F. E. HiscoekA.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock,
THE RICKARDS-LEETE COMPANY,
Mr. Harry Rickards and his powerful company of
London Speciality Artists.
Academy of Music, Sydney, To Let at the con-
clusion of Mr. Ric'-afd’s Season.
Academy of Music, Launceston, To Let from
Monday, January 10, for two weeks.
Treas. Mr. Sydney Hall. Gen. Man. Mr. P. Stuart
Lynch family bellringers.
(Organised, 1867.)
Manager Mr. Harry Lynch.
To-night, (Thursday)- Albert Hall, Granville
Friday and Saturday, 29th and 30th October, Vic-
toria Theatre, Parramatta.
Maitland, Newcastle, &c., to follow,
JAMES SMITH
H. L. BARNES
I Agents.
hd
fgb
hdf
ghd
fgdfg
COOLALTA WINES
(SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX),
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 GEORGE STREET
(Beneath Paling’s),
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF SPRING GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prices.
ORIENTAL
GOLD
is tie latest triumph of
Science. It is a soldo
alloy, possessing the ezaet lustre, beauty
and endurance of sterling Gold. A legi-
timats use has hoes found for this nohls metal, ky
working it into Jewellery of the most exquisite de-
signs. The Oriental Gold Co.,
of 474 George St., Sydney, has
large consignments of these lovely goods, which they
sell at a fraction of the cost of Sterling Sold Jewellery.
ITo one can detect the difference. Send for a
Priced Catalogue, or for one of the fol-
lowing samples, all of Oriental Sold—
Brooches,ss.; Jewelled (Parisian
Brilliants) Brooch, 7s. 6d.; Gent’s
Albert, Vs. 6d.; Pair Earrings,
Plain 55., Jewelled, 7s. 6d.; Locket
ss.,Jewelled, lOs.; Ladies’ Alberts
15s. P. 0.0. payable Oriental Gold
Co.
ggp” We send these on approval. If they don’t
please, return uninjured by the First
Mail, and we repay the cash, leas postage.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO,
474 George-street,
OPPOSITE THE MARKETS,
SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1889.
VXTK have again much pleasure in addressing
▼ ▼ our customers and the public. The rapid
expansion of our business, and the repeated orders
we receive from customers who dealt with us as
far back as 1882, are gratifying proofs that our
Goods and our method of doing business giv#
satisfaction.
We continue the same system. We buy direct
from the makers in London, Paris, and New York
allßuch Goods, Watches, &c., as are not the pro-
duct of our Company’s own works. We add a
fair and reasonable profit, and SELL FOR CASH,
thus avoiding bad debts, and steering clear of the
evil system of charging rates which compel paying
customers to make good the default of bad marks
HERE IS THE BASIS OF OUR SYSTI M.
The full value must accompany any order, or no attention
will be paid to it. Payment can be made by Postage Stamp*
of any Australian colony up to £1 worth, by Ch .que or <9
P. O. 0., payable to the Oriental Gold Co.
The Goods ordered will be sent at once. If they a-a not
approved they may be returned per first post after delivery
unrajured, and we will, according to th" wish of thf custo nWi
either substitute another article to same value, or
WE RETURN THE MONEY IN PULL
deducting merely the trifle of actual postal charges.
Thus: Suppose you want a Brooch—you describe, as nearly
as possible, the sort of pattern you prefer, or you leave the
choice entirely to us, and you remit, say 10s.
We endeavour to match your description, if sent, or n an f
case we do our best to please and satisfy you.
On receiving the Brooch, or other article, if you don t entirely
like the pattern or style, write by first mail explaining in wh«
respect you would like it to differ—returning the Brooci in
the same good order as you received it —thereupon we
try again, and send a second one to same value.
Or, if you don't like the first Brooch at all, and want font
money back, we will send back the full sum, less the postal
outlay incurred.
We make this pledge in all seriousness, nlthbugh with
something of a light heart; because, although we have f'la. a
thousands of orders by post on same terms, during «**
four years we have been in business at our present address—
-474 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY,
Opposite the Markets,
I3T WE HAVE NEVER HAD ONE Slf GLB
ARTICLE RETURNED I
Customers will save themselves a good deal of trouble when
they desire to have a choice among numerous patterns W
ordering a sample parcel and sending on the money for sama
We then send a variety, each article of which is marked wirn
its price, and the customer selects one or more articles
returns the rest, whereupon we send back the balance cf
ironey by next post. • - - •


ALL THE MOST
Modem and Elegant
DESIGNS
AMERICAN BUGGIES,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
in mo.
‘27 YOKK STKEET,
SYDNEY
§m%
mi
WK
A
n
SPECIALLY IMPORTED FOR CITY OR COUNTRY USE.
the old established
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY,
AT
Lowest Prices.
MOIMOKCO
27 YORK STREET,
BYDNEY.
EVERY VEHICLE GUARANTEED.
Royal standard theatre.
i Castlereagh-Street.
Leases Mr. Frank Smith.
Manager for Mr. F. Smith Mr. J. Grant.
UNDER THE MANAGEMENT OF MR.
DAMPIER.
Business Manager Mr. Fred. Gunther.
LAST NIGHT of
Dion Boucicault’s Drama (in 5 acts),
THE OCTOROON,
FRIDAY EVENING NEXT,
AS YOU LIKE IT.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 30,
THE GREEN LANES OF ENGLAND.
WJ. HOLLOWAY
• and
MISS ESSIE JENYNS,
supported by their especially selected Company,
in
“A Ring of Iron,” “A Mad Marriage,” ‘‘The
Broken idol,” “ Hamlet,” “ Romeo and Juliet,”
‘Much Ado About Nothing,” “As You Like It,”
fco., &c.
OPERA HOUSE, SYDIOIY, SEPTEMBER 11,
,s A RING OF IRON."
The royal polytechnic
OPEN DAILY
from 10 a.m. till 5 p.m., and from 7 till 10 p.m.
490 George-street opposite the markets.
A POPULAR PLACE OF AMUSEMENT.
A SCIENTIFIC AND MECHANICAL EXHI-
BITION.
Steam and Electro-magnetic Maohines in motion, The
lairy Grotto, Graphoscopes, Stereoscopes, Praxiniscopes, the
Pramsta (the moat wonderful Automatic Pianoforte player
JS f world). Views in all Countries, the Pastime Tables,
ChiMren’s Corner for Games and Puzzles, Mechanical Figures,
Parade, the Firemen Rescuing Life, the Bear
Pit, the engrav riit Work etching on glass, Curioß, Fountains.
K< freshments of the most recherche kind, under the able
superintendence of Mr. Harrington of the Royal Con-
fectionery Co.
ADMISSION, ONE SHILLING; CHILDREN SIXPENCE.
QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS, N. AND C.
DIVISION,
r airns and Herberton Railway—Section ■?.
TENDERS are invited for the Construction of
J- the Second Section of the Cairns and Herber-
wn Railway—in length fifteen miles twenty chains
accordance with Plans, -'ections, Drawings,
'General Conditions, and Specifications, which may
he seeti at the Offices of the Chief Engineer,
Cairns and Townsville, and at the Office cf the
Conimis-ioner for Railways, Crisbane, on and
MONDAY, the 15th day of November,
1886, where ai-o forms of Tender and other infor-
mation can be obtained.
Tenders, endor/ed “ Tender for Construction of
Second Section of Cairns and Herberton Rail-
W( !-V, must be deposited at the Office of the Com-
missioner for Railways, not later than Four o’clock
on FRIDAY, the 14 day of January, 1887.
fhe lowest or any Tender will not necessarily
he accepted.
r. secretary ioi
* tall way Department,
Brisbane, Bth October, 1886.
WM. MILES,
Secretary for Public Works.
asjsaaßßgßß;
Newest Invention'- Greatest Novelty.
THE
Y*N
PATENT
DIAGONAL PEAM
PateDt-'d In Kurland and on the Continent. wm notgnlifc in
the nor tear in tbe Fabric. Exquisite model Perfect
comf Tt Guaranteed wear.
Le F&llet sayg. A novel invention in Corsets admirably calculated to
prevent the very disagreeable occurrence of split seams. The cut is very
good and becoming, and may be adapted to any figure with advantage "
The Queen says“ These Corsets are a new departure. The material is
cut on the cross, and the component parts being also arranged diagonally
the seams have no strain. They are admirably modelled, exquisitely neat
and strong, and the workmanship all that could be desired.” Caution.— Beware of worthless imitations
Every genuine Y & N Corset is stamped “Y & N Patent Diagonal .Seam Corset, No 116 " in oral
Gold Medal, A’W Zealand Exhibition, 1382. Gold Medal, HIGHEST AW ARB or Corsets. London
International Exhibition, 1884 •
Sold by all Drapers a ml Ladies' Outfitters in tho United Kingdom and Colonies.
E
Y
j » M . R I L
** * (late of the Detective Force),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
42 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and all hinds of
J( nlidchtia! inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
divorce, libel, fraud, and b.cendiary cases, for the legal pro-
fusion and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
i image, or death, obtained in any part of the world
Kents and debts collected. From R. M. R.’s long experience
n thr Detective Force of New South Wales, Viotoria, and
i IT Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
/lute, he >e in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
n-a.iti.n and strictest secresy, and to faithfully and
hi in* t atten ’to all business entrusted to h care.
THE MERCANTILE BANK OP SYDNEY
(ESTABLISHED 1869).
Paid-up Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund, £155,000
Directors
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman. *
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C.
General Manager: i Secretary:
F. A. A. Wilson. | Hector Allen.
Branches : Hay market, Pyrmont, Redfem, Gosford, Nyn-
gan, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonard's, Newcastle
and Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
London Bankers: The National Provincial Bank of
England.
Under the Patronage of Ills Excellency,
Lord Carrington.
JOHN NOAEE,
TOBACCONIST,
HAS just landed 200 dozen vvell-assorted
STICKS from the principal manufactory in
Paris, and offers them to his patrons and the
general public at prices suitable to all.
GOLD, SILVER, and NICKEL MOUNTED,
in great variety, and even the most fastidious
canuot fail to be suited.
Establishments :
446 & 320 GEORGE STREET,
AND
PALL IMi-AJLIL,.,
33 Hunter-street, Sydney.
BEDDING ! BEDDING I BEDDING !
The same old saying—You Can’t Beat Lawler s.
THERE YOU CAN GET a Hair Mattress, and
no better BOX SPRING MATTRESS was
ever made than those made by LAWLER.
It is literally a mass of spiral springs, heavily
webbed, and thoroughly upholstered in best curled
hair.
Note.—No wire mattress ever made affords
such refreshing rest or can be depended upon as
can the Box Spring Mattress turned out at
608 GEORGE STREL
KAPOK, soft as Eider Down, at “LAWLER S.’
None but the celebrated “ Samarang ’’-groAvn
Java Kapox stocked.
No second quality of Kapox at “ Lawler’s.”
Flock and Fibre Mattresses, ready for daily
delivery, at Lawler’s.
Wire Mattresses, all sizes, by all makers.
Palliasses, from best long-cut straw three
qualities.
Purchasers will save money, and, in the end,
worry, by buying at
LAWLER’S 608 George-street, Sydney,
Thousands of people have tried
AND PROVED THAT
FATHER WOLFREY’S WORM POWDERS
are the best every way for children and adults.
Prepared only oy the undersigned. Price, 6d.
each; by post 7d. When ordering please state
age of patient.
EAMKS’
HOREHOUND
AND
COLTSFOOT
SYRUP.
» err" •,
£T
*
The best medi
cine for reliev-
ing coughs,
colds, hoarse-
ness. &c. It has
a great sale in
Sydney. Price,
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d
per bottle.
EAMKS’ A N TIBILIOUS PILLS.
Send for list of testimonials. Price, Is., Is. 6d.,
and 28. per box. By post 2d. extra.
The above i-iay be procured through any cl
or storekeeper, or direct from
W. D. EAMES, CHEMIST,
Apothecaries’ Hall,
U, OXFORD-STEEET, SYDNEY.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney October 20, 1886.
lEXDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the lowing PL BLIC
W ORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten-
ders are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Erection of Court-house Camp-
bell to vm
Repairs, Courthouse, Merriwa
Erection of Courthouse, Narrabri
Residence for Manager, Retort
House, &c., Gas Works,
Werris Creek, Great Northern
Railway
Supply of Fodder required for
Shunt Horses, Great Northern
Railway, during 1887
Collection and Delivery of Rail-
way Parcels in Bathurst
Supply of Iron-decked Culverts
or Small Bridge?, during 1887.
Roads Department
Tuesday,
November 2,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Pumper’s House,
Wilgiu, Great Western Rail-
way
Erection of Pumper’s House,
Byrock, Great Western Rail-
way
Erection of Shed, &c., Police
Barracks, Parramatta
Erection of Offices, Locomotive
Branch, Eveleigh
Wednesday,
November 10,
at 11 o’clock.
Additions, &c., GaolatDubbo
Purchase of Right to Collect
Ferry Dues during 1887
Construction of Bridge over
Aulde'rley Creek on road Ray-
mond Terrace to Stroud
Annual Contracts, 1887.
Colonial Architect’s Departmen
Supply of Building Stone, Sydney
Gaol
Ditto ditto ditto, Parramatta
Gaol
Ditto ditto ditto, Maitland Gao
Sweeping Chimneys, Victoria
Barracks and other Govern-
ment buildings, Sydney
Supply of Coffins for Govern-
ment Institutions in Police
District of Sydney and Glades-
ville Asylum
Emptying Privies at Victoria
Barracks and other Govern-
ment buildings, Sydney
Winding, &c., Clocks, Govern-
ment buddings, Sydney
Supply of Furniture, Chairs,
Carpets, and Blinds for Public
Buildings
Masons' and Paviors’ Work
Carpenters’ ditto
Bricklayers’ ditto
Slaters’ ditto
Plasterers’ ditto
Painters’ and Glaziers’ ditto
Plumbers’ ditto
Blacksmiths’ ditto
Supply of Ironmongery
Roads Department.
Supply of Cement
Construction of Boats
Supply of Drain-Pipes ’ ■
Tuesday,
November 16,
at 11 o’clock.
Additions Lockup. Gaol, Weit
Kempsey -
Construction of
Wilson’s Greek, Itond Hexfdir-
: .to Tcntfenbar
Tuesday,
Xuvembor 23,
-at T 1 b’elockf
j
Construction of Bridge, in .Ap-
proaeh to Mehi River Bridge
at Moree
Tuesday,
November SO,
at 11 o’clock.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNK.
ECORNILLON & GO.', Wiiie and Spirit
• Merchants, 22 Bridge street, Sydney,
Have on Sale—
Mackies & Co. celebrated Whiskle
E. Remy Martin & Co.’s Centaur Brandy, in
bulk and cases
Vve. Martin and Fils Squirrel Brandy
Ca. Vincola del norte de Espana, Rioja Clarets,
Port, &c.
The unequalled A.V.H. Gin, &c., &c.
TO WINEGROWERS AND OTHERS.
X G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE CASKS, 250 to 400 gallons ;
also,
Rum, Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS.
Hogsheads, Quarter-casks, Spirit Kegs, from 2
gallons and upwards.
COOPERAGE.
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market streets.
G
ENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES REPAIRED AND
CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET
Near Market-street.
Flour! Flour! Flour!
LION FLOURMILLS,
KENT ST., SYDNEY.
Town Whites, Fine Seconds Flour,
Wheat Meal, Cones, Bran and Pol-
lard, always on hand. All made
from the very best wheat procurable,
and at the lowest prices.
THE AUSTRALIAN LOAN, DISCOUNT
AND FINANCIAL COMPANY (Limited).
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO sterling.
RESERVE, £23,200 Stirling.
SYDNEY
BANKING PREMISES.
Head Office :
CORNER YORK and MARKET STREETS.
Current accounts opened, drafts and bills negoti-
ated, and all kinds of usual banking business
transacted
DEPOSITS RECEIVED,
and interest allowed.
At Call, 5 Per Cent.
3 Months, G:j Ter Cent.
6 Months, 8 Per Cent.
12 Months, 85 Per Cent.
Current Accounts: Interest allowed on daily
balance to credit. By Order of the Directors.
rjIHE CLIMAX OF PERFECTION
MONTSERRAT
LIME FIIUIT JUICE SAUCE.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Prepared from Pure Drug., and chemicals by
qualified Chemists in the most scientific manner
to ensure the best action,
FOR NOTHING
is more essential to enable doctors to make quick
cures, therefore we only employ qualified assist-
ants with diplomas in our establishments, and
supply everything of the beot quality at
the low r est prices.
T. JONES & CO.,
DISPENSING CHEMISTS.
53 Market-st between Pitt and George-streets.
Branch Houses Crown-street Tram Terminus,
Surry Hills : and Suva, Ffii .
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic-
Doloreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
- bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary ! In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURB FOR~BLIGHT.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and, Safest Remedy for Bad'
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, biit strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through'
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical'
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE, Pharmacaatical Chemist,.
631 George-street only.


DR, BELL’S
(KIDNEY AND LIVER)
B I T T E R S.
NEVER KNOWN TO FAIL.
CURES ALL DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS,
LIVER, BLADDER,
AND URINARY ORGANS, DROPSY,
GRAVEL, DIABETES, BRIGHT’S DISEASE,
PAINS IN THE BACK,
LOINS, OR SIDE, NERVOUS DISEASE,
RETENTION OR NON-RETENTION OF URINE.
By the use of this REMEDY the stomach and
bowels speedily regain their strength, and the Blood
is purified.
It is pronounced by hundreds of the best doctors to
be the ONLY CURE for all kinds of Kidney and Liver
Diseases.
. It is purely vegetable, and cures when other medi.
■ernes fail.
It is prepared expressly for these diseases, and has
never been known to fail. One trial will convince
you of its value.
AFTER DINNER
Persons who suffer from Indigestion can arrest the
progress of that painful malady by the use of Dr.
Bell’s Bitters so composed that it will give tone to
the stomach, prevent heartburn, rouse the liver to
healthful action, invigorate the kidneys, and thus,
through the activity of these organs, promote the
natural movement of the stomach and bowels. Dr.
Bell’s Bitters are so compounded that their action,
though mild, effectually produces the above results.
They, also, in curing Constipation, remove the cause
■of Biliousness, Liver Complaint, Kidney Diseases,
'Rheumatism, and many other serious ailments.
Note.— Any poor Person, or the manager of any
Hospital, Asylum or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
■of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
BELL’S BITTERS
Manufacturing Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND, & AUSTRALIA.
-O
Butcher, Fehon & Co., Sydney,
AGBNTS FOR
New South Wales & Queensland.
The New Furniture and Carpet
Warehouse
Jones, Lawson Bros, & Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
AT
LESS THAN ENGLISH PRICES.
EIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
■with three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING ROOMS,
At the Exceedingly Low Price of JBS 15s.
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER SUITES,
At Correspondingly Low Prices.
FURNITURE for
f IHE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY,
THE DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING-ROOM.
BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEADS,
in great variety.
Jones, Lawson Bros., and Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
THE FOLLOWING GOODS
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Corn Paint, Is
Asiatic Liniment, 2s
That Modern Appetiser, The Australian Relish, Is
A. Soyer’s Baking Powder, (free from alum) 6d.
Page’s Custard powder, 4 in Box, Is.—makes two
quarts fine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linctus, for coughs, Is.
Clayton’s Nervine, for toothache and cold in the
gums, Is.
Dr. Barbarossa’s Cantharides and Russian Bear’s
Grease Oil, for covering bald patches and pro
ducing whiskers. 2s. 6d.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
177, 268 and 266 PITT STREET.
df
gdfg
hf
& importers op
HATS CAPS At
C »
438 CEORCE ST
SYDNEY 1
flflposite jLassetters
//
FEIST NELLY’S
HORSE & CATTLE BAZAAR
206 PITT STREET, and 149 GASTLEREAGH
STREET.
Branch Establishment: 68 Hunter Street
W. GARBING
(PROPRIETOR),
Auctioneer & General Live Stock Agent
THE Liverv business is the largest in Sydney,
and the Sale Yard the only one where gene-
ral sales are held of racing stock. High-class
horses disposed of privately and by auction. Busi-
ness connections with the principal stud and
breed owners in the colony. ('orrespondeft&e
relative to state of market, and all matters’to-'
garding horses and cattle, personally attendedrto.
Best facilities for landing and shipping: stock.
Insurance (including marine ri.sk) effected oh.live?
stock, rates for which can be obtained on applica-
tion.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
ifl
BrBL IliSI
IlinwriLrl)' i iu "
.(hull
kill II 111
Ui ' - H'l
263 to 209 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY, ;
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
E A R T H E N W ARE
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
O q ORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
». T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
FOLEY’S SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &c. .For
terms, &c., apply to
L. FOLEY,
Manager and Instructor.
fJIHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES;
61 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital... ... ... £1,000,000
Reserve fund 675,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
. F. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.
The fresh food and ice company
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
No. 23 ROYAL ARCADE,
where they supply
Milk, Cream,’’Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &c., with
flight refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency for
“ KOUMISS.” so highly recommended in pulmo-
nary complaints.
FRESH FOOD AND ICE CO., LIMITED,
Head Office 21 Harbour-street.
Stables ... Liverpool-street.
Factory Mittagong.
dgdfg
ROWLANDS MACASSAR OIL preserves,
strengthens, and beautifies the hair: it contains
no lead or mineral ingredients, and can now be
also had in a golden colour, wfcich is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and
persons. Four sisies.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a most cooling,
and refreshing wash for the face, hands and arms,
and is perfectly free from any mineral of metallic
admixtures-; it disperses freckles, tan, prickly heat,
redness, pimples, See.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE produces
immediately a perfect change in red or grey hair,
whiskers and eyebrows, to a glossy and permanent
brown or black, which colour neither washing nor
perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bros.,
E. Prosser & Co., Sydney
QUOD FACIMUS VALUE FACIMUS
"(What we do we’ do well.)
■*T '•
OUR PHOTO.—If you feel
1 undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and withal
truthful photograph of yourself,
ace&pt what is but well-meant
counsel, and at once pay a visit
tO;the vestibule leading to Gal-
leries in sydney Arcade, . There
you can inspect a choice collec-
tion bf portraiture (the'every-day
wo/k of Creelman and Co.) the
excellence of which, we venture
to say,- ought at once to determine
ypur choice iu their favour, and
take away all doubt as to the
rtO gO' t 0 .% -
CCS J €.-I».-Y., fSSi ; < «!)!nets,
CREELMAN-- & C<
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, Sydney
w.
JOH N S O
COOPER, SERVE YOU,
and
LICENSED G A U G E R
11 PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND
STREET, SYDNEY.
N
Wine Caskß^-Beel^' Tierces and Kegs, Tallow
Casks, new and secdiM-hand; also, Wine and
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prices.
iltivt IV AIL ITS UKAM lIKS.
C. 11. SMITH & SON,
Manufacturers and Importers
•. OF * .... ■.. . , ,
HAT'S." 1 GAPS,
30 2 .GEO It G E ST RE E T', ~,
3 Poors South of Hunter-street.
r -si*
pU
it}
s* Y\
3/-
W/luamS
rjIHE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER
Saves labour, stationery, and time, writing much faster
than expert pen-men, and condensing matter to less than
one-half the space occupied by pen writing. Beautiful
copies may be taken in the usual manner in the letter-press
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY & CO.,
410 Kent-street.
VKXXI KZDIXft
soil If SHOE IEfIIEW, GOTHS Cl BNCCKTS,
hdf
boston; iae&.
VIENNA, 1878.
WlILA* 187ft
HAUTHAWAH
IL9 SELUBLK
Peerless
Gloss.
I iGcsssity [a every
family. It Hacks aiJ
polishes Ladies’ and
Children’s Beets*
Shoes, Gabbers tnj
Satchels, witlcul
brushing. Always
gives satisfaction
Is ccssedsd te 69
'THE STMMSD,"
C. L. H AUTH AWAY & SONS*
111 ft 233 Co&gress Street* lkstoje*
MASS.. UAI
UjMBRI’LLAS
ICE-COVERED.
-y
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Hare your Umbrella Frames re-
covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made equal
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
' Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets.
made to match cos-
tumes.' 'Repairs neatly executed
Anything yon require from Sydney
FORWARDED AT
COST PRICE.
NO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, forwarded free of all
charges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
JOHN T. M‘IOTES & CO.,
90 I’ITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.§.W.
Everybody
should USE
PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
TLOUE!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD,
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
831 George-street, Sydney,
Good News for the Music-loving Public,
A BRANCH OF THE
Musical Instrument Direct
Supply Association
Is NOW OPEN at
674 GEQRGE-ST., SYDNEY,
With the Largest Stock of Musical Instruments in
the Southern Hemisphere,
AT London prices, 50 per cent, less
than Sydney prices,
Direct from the European manufacturers to
the Australian consumer.
4/S, S/6,
Speciality
7 6. » S. 12/0.. *7 «, 21/, *5/, SO/.
45/, to £2O.
: The German-Anglo, in wood box, 21/
Ditto, superior, with steel notes, 35-
o
ACCORDEOIfSi’ I 7^r. , S.^So!-ri. ,, i*«
Speciality : The miniature Melodian, 21/—,
Ditto, oak, with steel notes, 42/-.
>
10/H. 15/-, 20/-, 25/-. 30/-. to £2O.
Speciality : Old Copy Violin, with case, bow
instruction book, 35/-.
gbdfg
CORNETS
at 40/-, SO/-, 73/-.. 103/-, 180/-
to ««8.
Specialities: The new “Levy” model,
with water key £5 5 0 J
~ The new “Reynolds” model
with double water key... 910
The new “Reynolds” Echo-
attachment Cornet ... 12 10
hdf
FLUTES, from 1/6 to £lO.
Specialty : The 8-key Cocoa D Concert Flute,
with slide-head, in case,' by
best English maker 50/ ;
THE SYMPHONETTET
In nickel silver, with six tunes, 30/V-.
Extra tunes, 1/- eachi.
bghbfdg
From 5/6 each to £lO.
The *' Walter Howard” American Nickel Banjo,'-
£3 3s. _ ;
&3T Brass and Drum and Fife Bands furnished’
throughout. Negro Minstrel Troupes fitted; out.
Clarionets, Violin Strings and Fittings, Flageolets'
Drums, Guitars, Ilarmonicons, Tambourines,
and, in fact, an assortment of every class
of MusrcaMnstr-ument, from a
Jew’s Harp to a Church Organ.
MUSIC 1 MUSIC I MUSIC !!
200,000 Copies New and Popular Music, published l
at 35., 45., and 55., sold at 9cL per copy.
WORTH OF
MUSIC FOR
All instr uments carefully packed and forwarded 1
to any part of the colonies.
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
Manages.


RAW VASELINE.
•tea,
m
m
A
HORSfC. RUGS,: Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
Collar Check and Serge, 40 and 44 inches ;
Large assortment pf Buggy Harness, Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s 'Saddles, Spurs, and all kinds of
Saddlers’ Ironmongery, &o.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS, AND SADDLERS
c IRONMONGERS,
125 YORK ST,, SYDNEY.
*5
ov
r* £
aiN
ffO
l*
Rt-
t°l^
DA
B*
EPP S’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
GOC O A
OieSALE MANU FACTURII
ECTIONER
EM
mmm
__ WORKS,KENT S r NEAR ERBKINC ST
*ICdd&MQ o*(Wiuu>
Ta&K&gn oK shortest mcmae,
'opttrnv Jt SmrnttC Ompeks fI\QNmVA\
tfi
! ~.W*
363 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
and Co.’s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap
JOHN BANKS,
F
U
P
H
u
n
B
I
A
m
The
jsAi Q U^^CUBt FGR
ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS. COUGHS
ANC ALL CHEST AFHECTIOMS
DTH O M A
Ui’- R o c
EID ONLY BY (XT
s Ingham .• r
KHAMP T G N ■
hb
k VI
r
£
I
/
\
r ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMcRV
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
f'iterance.
Three Gold Medals—
PAUIS.IS7B, CALCUTTA,IBBI,
for pre eminent excellence of quality.
GOLD WED At BOUQUET
dfghdfg
WOOD VIOLET
CHYPRE
and othf-r well known *'erf times are un-
equal led lor their delightful and lasting odour
ATKINSON’S EMJ DE TOLETTF DE LOTOSES.
Unsurpassed for refreshing and softening the
skin, and an exceedingly choice Perfume for
the Handkerchief An entirely new article
prepared exclusively h> the Inventors
Of all Pealers, and o, the Manufacturers —
J & E, ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
s Trade Mark— '‘White Rose” on “ Golden
fee A
m
m
AGUARANTEEwith
each pipe for real
Meerschaum and
Amber.
<a Briar8 - Repairs, &o,
. S.ROSENTHAL Pipemaker
DjJJjJ D f£ I “ s ’ 8 * rcet ’ Melbourne,
illustrated Catalogues on application.
FURNITURE, CARPETS, & REGS,
-A-HSTID BZEIDSlUSTG-.;
THE NEW FURNITURE AND CARPET WAREHOUSE,
VT...
c »4 ck <, ., r. ■■■ , - pg>Qr 'Qi a
J $WiP
i / l '=/'°o A-Ty y "r 'S \ »*
oiiiiirnTTTi
0;-
rZ.t'
3 _
CSr
/• ■■•>
SS'-
3E
C.02
c
S3
im
Jfei
THE GORDON DINING-ROOM SUITE.
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
HsT IE! ER,
HUNTEE
S T HE, ZEE DEC T _
JONES, LAWSON BROS., & CO.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
NEAR HUNTER STREET.
as- THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
J. V. WARHEAM, Manager.
[MANUFACTURING HATTERS,
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
&6H I Hftrtß3TJF7sWi £ Hi'
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
BOOKS. BOOKS. BOOKS.
Bought, Sold, or Exchanged
) £ AAA "VOLUMES New and Secondhand
vt/jul/v Books always on view at
WILLIAM DYMOGK’S
BOOK ARCADE, 208 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Catalogues post free.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
bdf
G. B. MODINI, Gunmaker,
v a ' lr ,’T nCe £ is I >atrons and the public that he has
received by late arrivals, one of the largest and best selections
. D „ m FIREARMS
E” !”, ■ ydney. The latest improvements in Breach and
MuMledoadmg Guns, Rifles, Revolvers, &c. Agent for the
«,, 1 » i!I Ce . e ,' )r i l : ted L ? ndon Manufacturers :T. Purdy and
noI!!!U?r hn ,w 1 < i? )y m a 7, < ] Joseph Lang and Son, Chas.
V°-’ T ii ? an , d ar o u l. on ’ ‘d Bo Bussey and Co.,
32°^5 nuf fS ture kinds Sportsmen’s Requirements for
of ir* u l a J^ e of other celebrated makers’
stock on hand from Webey, Riley, Scott, &c., and the best
e , n , can infers. A choice and coinplete
stock of Cutlery, field and Marine Glasses, and sportsmen’s
„^r J l 8 ln g ® ne , i ; al - Repairs promptly executed by skilful
workmen, and all goods will be faithfully guaranteed at
602 GEORGE-ST., BRICKFIELD HILL,
SYDNEY.
Inspection Invited, 43?” Price List on application.
T. T. FODEN & CO.,
INDIA RUBBER DEPOT,
20 ERSKINE STREET,
Sydney,
For Every Description ot
INDIA RUBBER GOODS.
M
9NUM E N T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
, Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on reques
j. cirmscnAM,
Maec-aret-street, Wtnwakd square, Sydney
HEALTH IS WEALTH.
N ERVL
A
gbd
sfmln
:TR EATM F NT'
Dr. E. 0. West’s Nerve and Brain Treatment, a
guaranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions, Fits,
iNervous Neuralgia, Headache, Nervous Prostration, caused by
the use of alcohol or tobacco, Wakefulness, Mental Depression,
Softening of the Brain resulting in insanity and leading to
misery, decay, and death, Premature Old Age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain, or over-indulgence. Ea.ch box
contains one month’s treatment. ss. a box, or six boxes for
zss. , sent by mail prepaid on receipt of price. We Guar-
antee six BOXES TO cure any case. With each order re-
ceived by us for six boxes, accompanied with 255., we will
send the purchaser our written guarantee to refund the
money if the treatment does not effect a cure. Guarantees
issued only by
JOHN C. WEST and CO.,
65 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Circular sent free on application.
<£loo Reward!
We will pay the above reward for any case of liver com
plaint, dyspepsia, sick headache, indigestion, constipation or
costiveness, we cannot cure with West's Vegetable Liver
Fills, when the directions are strictly complied with. They
are purely vegetable, and never fail to give satisfaction
Large boxes containing 30 sugar-coated pills Is. For sale by
all druggists. Beware of counterfeits and imitations. The
genuine manufactured only by
JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
65 Market-street Sydney, N.S.W.
Sent Prepaid by post on receipt of Is. psrbox in stamps.
w w w
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMENT.
Infallible remedy for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
Gout, Sprains, Cuts, Burns, Scalds, Bruises, Headache,
Mumps, Hip Disease, White Swelling, Felons, Chilblains
Whitlows, Chapped Hands, Frozen Feet, Bites of Inserts,
Sore Throat and all diseases requiring external application
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers.
Price Is, and 2s. ter Bottle.
JOHN C. WEST Sc CO., Sole Proprietors.
SIDNEY, CHICAGO and
TORONTO
Jg RADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY:
SPRING and C’C ON NELL STREETS.
fgbdfg
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS
ARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
Cmatch.
bhfd
Sideboards of modern
designs and various dimen-
sions, in OAK, MAHOGANV,
WALNUT, ASH, and CEDAR.
A large selection, at all
prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably Up-
holstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton
and Lafnb.
Si
bgbhfdg
PIANOFORTE,
guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brilliant
tone, in handsome ease.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
1 0f WANOFORTES by The MOST
X CELEBRATED MAKERS.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all
°u, de ® lgns ! also > elegantly finished
inEmbridery, Plush, &c. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell and
Spring Streets.
bhdfg
bhd
ALN U T FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell and Serins*
Streets. °
C““ HIFFONIER WHATNOTS, effective designs.
Large choice. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
uuonnell-street. ’
fghb
Drawing room cabl
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
Drawing-room occasional chairs^
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES
Prices, from 12s. 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
dfgh
WIALNUT revolving
BOOKSTANDS, 2,3, and 4*
tier—a desideratum for the Barris
ter’s Chamber, Judicial Bench
Library, Drawing-room, or even the
Bedroom. Very handy—especially
so for the Invalid Reader.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in
any material.
bdfg
bhd
n evolving show
AV STANDS,
for the advantageous display of
Woollens,
Grocers’ Samples, or
Fancy Goods.
Everything is well exhibited,
and any single article can be
conveniently handled without
disturbing another.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
s
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH, for
1 INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
ROCKIN G easy "cilAmsreleganran'd
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
fgh
dfg
Bedsteads, all sizes,
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Importers,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
B
EDDING.—AH descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
dfg hd
OPRING MATTRASSKS
KJ Woven Wire, best
make ; also, Spiral Springs
Price, from 14s. each.
BRADLEY, NEWTON and LAMB
CHEAP FURNITURE^— Pine Tables, from
13s. fid. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d •
Chests of Diawers, from 405.; Wardrobes from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 3Gs.; Cedar’ Side-
boards, from £3105.; Clothes Howes, from 10s fid •
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s '*
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,


The Sydney Free-Trade Orators and Editors are Howling for a Dissolution.
This representation is chiefly allegorical and entirely prophetic. Act 1 shows the Dissolution of Parliament. Act 2 the ensuing Dissolution of Free-Traders.


K
PEN TO I)
TZ
SALK CYI|W
s
»fin exquisite
BY THE PROPRIETOR,
C- x (f)'^' / c) vj9
TOOTH' PASTi
FOf\ fTSfINT/SEPT/C
/ Ho clea/Zsz/g properties.
T,B,MELHUISH , Pharmaceutical Chemist
* ■ 134 William ST, S YDNEY
fgh
dfg
TS
00
OTS
T. WILLIAMS & CO.,
IMPORTERS OF
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Also Manufacturers of
The Finest Quality of Goods in the above ILines.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
S3O
OH
SI
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
hdf
EFFECTUALLY destroys,
ALL NOXIOUS fNSECT%
FLEAS.FLI ES. BEETLES MOSQUITOES.
AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARM LESS TO BIRDS DOGS,
FOWLS OR OTH ER M
ANIMALS
•%
Isa
ghd
PbyALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS
WHOLE SALE
FELTON* GRIM WAD E/BX®]
MELBOURN E— i
WANTED IN EVEKY HOUSE
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
JUDSON $•
Vegetable Spirit Improv
These Stains being a Varnish and Stain combined, require neither size nor
knotting before or after application.
“ Those Stain now who never Stained before.
And they who once have Stained now Stain the more.”
6d., Is,, 25., 4s. per bottle,
Sold bp Chemists, Stationers, Ironmongers, Oilmen, Storekeepers, %e., fe.
HENRY LANCASTER,
Tap
co/e
4_7 /ttotf
—r ltsmr« C 44
yr wxrm o/akt*
ssr*** J
NOV WKCTED ■
will] Will
OT WATER
IV I < IHKIIIUIBI
CYLINDER
*
•v weather
R TROUGH
TfOI/Ut
•ANhot
■ E BRQKEN
FOR MANY YEARS]
engaged in the
Leading Workshops
of England,
Lately 5 years with
Hudson Bros,,
Manufacturer of
WROUGHT IRON
TANKS & CISTERNS,
of any size or shape,
for squatters, wool*
washers, and station*
owners.
Horse and Cattle
Troughs,
of every description,
wrought-iron pipes, s. s.
funnels, ventilators,
&c., See.
EstiinKtea cheerfully given.
REDUCED PRICE LISTS FURNISHED ON APPLICATION.
Works: 05 GEORGE STREET, WEST, near Railway Station.
ORGANS
SOLE AGENTS
THE
FOB
SMITH
bruck & Massey,
.
ORGANS, MUSIC.
197 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Graham s pills,
. THE great liver remedy.
Trora Dandelion, and free from the
st Particle of mercury or mineral substance,
jjjtpy . P°pular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
3< ? simple, yet most effective ; they can be
recommended, being a carefully pre-
parat,ion > an( T the result of practical ex-
j overcome the worst form of
L>Sve the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
et to hear that they have not afforded
relief,
4 H GEORGE STREET.
MARSHALL'S
TONIC NERVINE
TRADE MARK—“ TONIC NERVINE."
A SAKE, CERTAIN, and: SPEEDY CURE for Nervous
and General Debility, and all complaints that spring from
lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia, Toothache, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Loss of Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and
Kidney Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished Blood,
Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power, &c. By its. tonio
and soothing effeots it at once removes all craving for
Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous and other powerful
vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S TONIO NERVINE nour-
ishes and gives rigor to the whole system. Price 4s. 6d.
Sold everywhere, _ MARSHALL BROTHERS, Sydney,
N.S.W.: London, Eng.
TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
THEORICINAL
''" u «sO* u
©BTAINCD A
FIRST CLASS AWARD*
■o* I
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
«s
m
ur.
*f\
v
* * ■■.
ISTHEBESTINTHEWORLD!
NONE OTHER BUT •
fgh
Manufactured byJames Channqn
Harbour S T SYDNir
Sold by All Grocers and Storekeepers
ART! FICIALTEETH
Completes FT
MARSHALL BRO
DENTISTS
R
OBERT BUTCHER & CO.
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Town Hall, Sydney.
4®" Country’ Orders receive prompt attention. 181
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
(ESTABLISHED 1860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
* 3 AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our’Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auo-
* l tioneer for Brisbane.
WAny enquiry about Land, &c., from the Sotuhem
Colonies or New Zealand, may be made to Arthur
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
Her"*Majesty the J Queen.
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales.
H.M. THE KING ON THE NETHERLANDS.
In. ■
■
ii-:y
Reims
H.I.M THE CZAR OF RUSSIA
mm;
a
i ~- aySaPSaffMißlltfe' l u'
Ti.lm
J:
Ladies’ Camera ” an angel's face (
she saw me stop, and she said with grace
• don’t linger, do not wait,
a Phantom Shutter and a "Baker Plate."
Agents for New South Wales
TRAPP & ELLES,
64 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
DRIDCES
FOOD
row INFANTS and INVALIDS
Idas an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
BIDDELL BROTHERS,
COLsTE’ECTIOISrRIEIS,
605, 507, 507£ GEORGE STREET,
US’ Every article in the trade. [Caterers supplied
with New Goods.
Acme Lozenges, most superior
Pachouli and Cachou Comfits, in 3d. boxes
Voice Jujubes
Finest Jam Sugar, in \ and lib tins
Sherbet and New Motto Kisses
Note. —Biddell’s London Mixtures are all •{
regular quality.
PAPERHANGINGS
HIGH-CLASS DADOES, FRIEZES, and
DECORATIONS.
House Decorator and
Painter,
GLASS SILVERER, BEVELLER & EMBOSSER
Alex. Borthwick
Oil, Colour, and Glass Merchant,
281 George-street, Sydmey.
PHOTOGRAPHIC OUTFITS,
Including all requisites for the amateur or the professional, can be had at
prices to suit all requirements.
LICHTNER AND 00.,
PHOTO-STOCK IMPORTERS,
24 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND 36 COLLINS STREET EAST, MELBOURNE.
tS’ Send fer Catalogue.
“BOOKS.” Any Book You Want. “BOOKS.”
AJSTG-US &T~ ROBERTSON
lia MARKET STREET, SYDMET. 9
Larg« stock of new and second-hand Books. Price of any book on application. 'Books soak hr
nail to any part of Australia, ‘ 7


ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &e.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing, Plumbing.
Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH,” “ VALVE,” and “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents Tor Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters,
Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND !9 MACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Price on Application.
WOOD WORKING AND SAW MILL MACHINERY.
H. P. GREGORY & CO„
Are SOLE AGENTS for
T. Fay Co., Cir3.clra.rs.stti
And carry a Large Stock of their Celebrated Machines.
EVERY REQUISITE FOR WOOD WORKING AND SAW-MILLING IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogues and Prices.
Offices and Stores : 17 PITT STREET, Circular Quay. Sydney.
IP. ItS. H.-A.I3:EZXiT„
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPIRITS,
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that he .has just completed extensive additions to his WHOLESALE and
RETAIL BOTTLE DEPARTMENT, which is now replete with a well-assorted Stock of the Best Brands of Wines"
and Spirits, personally selected by the proprietor.
Ha can therefore confidently recommend the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, hopes, to merit the patronage
which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
ENGLISH ALES and STOUT, OF ALL BRANDS, ONE SHILLING EACH PER QUART.
THE FINEST BRANDS OF WHISKY, BRANDIES, PORTS, SHERRIES, CLARETS, and CHAMPAGNE, at the
Lowest Prices obtainable in Sydney.
JST A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU. SPECIAL PRICES FOR CASES OF THE ABOVE.
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, all returns being allowed for
Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at any Country Railway Station or wharf Free of
C,arge.
P. R. Larkin wishes to call your attention to his famous £3 Oases, containing the following :
3 Bottles BRANDY
1 Bottle JAMAICA RUM
1 Bottle PORT WINE
3 Bottles WHISKY .' Bottles LOWNDES’ RUM
l Bottle WOLFE'S .SCHNAPPS 1 Bottle OLD TOM
1 Bottle SHERRY WINK
Total 18.
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have given perfect satis
faction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, please make P. O. Order payable at t.h Haymarket Post Office.
KINDLY NOTE THE ADDRESS :
p, E, LAEKIH, Wholesale aid Retail Wiae and Spirit Merchant and Importer,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL, GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS, tl A YMAKET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 778 and 7&> George-stmet, Sydney.
wallach bros:
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
LLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
LEA&PERRINS SAUCE
AuC
■JTS
Wk
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label on every bottle
bears their Signature thus —
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask foi LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label , Bottle and
.''topper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse and
Blackwell , London , <5rV. , dfc. ; awe/ dr Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Wholesale Agents : Montbfiork, Joseph & Co.; David Cohen & Co., Sydney.
C. R. YOUNG’S __
COMMERCIAL HOTEL
GULGON Gr.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION FOR TRAVELLERS.
CALL AT
The Mercantile Tailoring Palace,
for
Hal
t Where you can get
A Pair of West of England Tweed Trousers (made to your measure)
or a Sac Suit for 50/-. Fit Guaranteed
MT PATTERN AND MEASUREMENT FORMS BY POST. *@lk- - ,
722 Gkorge-street, Haymarket, Next Alhambra Music
PERI) ria if &“co.
INDIA-RUBBER MERCHANTS,
lti ERSKINE STREEt
it-tr GARDEN DOSE. ALL SIZES AND LENGTH ~. "3*
India-rubber Goods for Mechanical, Horticultural, Surgical, and general p ur P
SPECIAL QUOTATIONS FOR QUANTITIES.
o
>
a
9
m
dfghdfghdfgh
. JoOT ,
- ' ,{•
"Shoe
George S ™
y<SL.2ct£e Pea£e curiPL Bt&rcourb
OF FOR D & CO.’S hats
LIGHTEST, BEST, and CHEAPEST.
'f , 1
NEXT TO ROYAL HOTEL, and at 65 2 GEORGE
UDOLPHO WOLFES SON
<3*22^;
iXc
//
zau&c&m
e 17CREMUN ?}
/ ''4yvfßUß G
ILLUSTRATION (in reduced size) of d6l Order to be found in the -
LARGE BOTTLES” OF WOLFE’S SCH
J. MURPHY’S
CENTRAL LOAN AND DISCOUNT
OFFICES,
CORNER OF KENT AND LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite George-street.
MONEY LENT AT THE LOWEST RATF OF INTEREST
IN THIS CITY
Loans from Is. to £lOOO, at 10d. in the £
per month.
Loans on Gold and Silver Jewellery, Clothing,
and every description of Portable Property,
granted at Rates never before attempted in this
Colony.
American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murphy’s Central Loan and Dis-
count Offices, corner of Kent and Liverpool
streets, opposite George-street.
Try POGONOWSKI
FOR
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS
The Largest Assortment in the Colonie
705 GEORGE STREET.
Send for Price List.
Guinness’ Extra St®
avA^m
<Vib‘
FIEST
L**DC
BASS’ PALE
SOLE PURVEYORS [o ’p|tl***
COLONIAL AND
LONDON:
By
AGENTS -IN NEW suuu* , 9, y
W.;BAtCittN, ✓
commercial llianibcis, j
LONDUJM,
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
FRYS MALTED
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
'AN ORDINARY CUP CONTAINS MORE ACTIVE PROPERTIES OP MALT THAN A PINT OP THE BEST ALE OR PORTER.
E. ROWXjAWTDS,
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS, * , , @
Manufacturer of all kinds of Crated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Vigors '
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
3 1 and 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the ONLY GOLD MEDAL for Crated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal
for Uaueurn. Bitters,
