

The
Bulletin
NEW SERIES
m
xx^roißircrxx,
BA'SHXABKET, OWLY,
Have all the pleasure in the world in wishing their friends and patrons in Town and Country,
their supporters in Sydney and its Suburbs, and everyone everywhere, everything that
conduces to and goes to make
A Happy New Year!
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET ONLY,
THE OETET IJITIVEESiiL PEOVIDEES r ’
In these latitudes. The Most Popular Drapers in Australia.
Many a trade, hundreds of industries, and many a calling are invoked to keep
Our G-igantic Business
°n the move, for where the Coach is Big the road must needs be Wide. Our system of business is well known. We leave
no part of the Manufacturing World unvisited; we buy all goods on the very host terms, and our selling prices are
OUR ONLY ADDRESS:
Anthony Hordern & Sobs, Palace Emporium, Haymarket only,
CLOSE TO THE KAIBWAY STATION.


ALLAN A. MARSHALL and 00.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DPVIHB SEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SUSP FROSTS,
Hydrants, Bhip and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
tear- Crass and Bell Pounding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing,
Plumbing, Qasfltting, Tank and Girder Building, Sleotrio and Pneumatie Bell-fittmy
of every description'.
DOULTON’B "FLUSH-OUT,” "VALVE,” & "PAN” CLOSETS, "VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Far
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8&9 Haeqaario Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application
W. H. A SHELL & CO.’S Agencies,
KENT STREET (near King-street), SYDNEY
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S Celebrated Biscuits, Cakes, Treacle, and Golden Syrup.
EXCELSIOR MILLS Prize Victorian Oatmeal, Flour, and Pearl Barley
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S Prize Assorted Confectionery and Bonbons.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S Prize Baking Powders, in and lib. tins.
SWALLOW & DERHAM’S Queensland Refined Sugars.
ANGLO-SCANDINAVIAN Gold Medal Condensed Milk, the best in the market.
R, WHITTING HAM & CO.’S London Provisions and General Merchandise,
e lreshm|
Genuine
Economical
Makers to the Queen
ffSH
is.
" ■l'.;
sx
k
f. T
I
1
si*;
m
A
:.:
-■•«--•
«*•
m
w<v
m
V,' I
r •jyx.l *■ -/w;_ju. .» «
Bray X# lolrtxa.ex* 9
32 O’Connell-street, Sydney,
5 PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK DEALERS.
Complete Photographic Outfits, In great variety, from *3. Catalogues post free.
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS 0$ PHOTOGRAPHY.
BOLB AGENTS for BAKER’S DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and RAPID tn the Market
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies
L 3La
§
Caterer and Confectioner,
e®4 worse street.
er" WEDDINGB. BALLS, PICNICS. AND PASTIES A SPECIALITY.
SCIICWT «8& CO.,
JIITBIC SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN.
281 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY, H.8.W.;
Also, at London, M a fence, Paris, and Brussels.
ISF* LARGEST STO CK IN THE COIOHIIS
fl
&
to
C=J
-o=7
' J
- - r
•V' 3
-os?
"1 I FLA. VO UR and unsurpassed
lyj Criapness distinguish Wi) so - ’s Au; e-
rican “Extra Toast “B 1 CUITa For
breakfast, mrehton, t-a, or desert
nothing equals them, D licious with
milk, superb with wine, and incomparible
with coffee or oheese.
TURNER & CO,
Bole .Ag s,
74 Sua6*.z Binzai, Sydne v
NOTICE.
TO OUR CUSTOMERS AND THE GENERAL PUBLIC.
JN FUTURE, our ESTABLISHMENT will be CLOSED at 2 p.m. on
SATURDAYS, INSTEAD of 10 p.m., as heretofore, in order to GIVE
OUR EMPLOYEES THE BENEFIT of the
Saturday Half-Holiday
Thanking our customers for past favours, and trusting that they will sufl fl
no inconvenience by making their purchases previous to 2 p.m. on SATURDAY^
We remain.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Your Obedient Servants,
Hordern Brothers,
174, 176, 209 and 211 PITT STREET.
rp,
&
A Derangement of the U v
THE CAUSE OF DISEASE
IN THE
STOMACH,
KIDHEY
—AND—
Below will be found a brief summary of a Leotur© upon the Liver, delivered
the Electric College of Medicine, by
DR. J. EAYDOCE,
The Liver has been known as the great blood-maker and blood-purifier of the Circulation .:
iis size and spongy structure, it plays a most important part in the animal economy, as r /
aesimiiKtion and nutrition. Food taken in the mouth and acted upon by the digestive organ* l ,
stormed is conv< rttd into Glucose and Peptone, and in these forms enters the Portal vein.
the action of the liver, these substances are converted into a form of sugar and pass out of %
by a large vtir, called the Hepstic vein, into the general circulation. The new material noW 1 ■
Ber vea tv, o purposes, viz ; the maintenance of heat in the body and assisting in the cell growth 1
system. j
Or. Murch'sm says, “The composition of bile and its secretion is very complex. It is cdp,
being secreted by the liver, and, increasing suddenly before eating, gradually decreases as aoo»
appetite is fati;fi'ed and feeding ceases” Now, if this most important organ of the body
torpid, < r tbe passage of bile interfered with, emaciation and disease ensue. I note eighth
pt culitruits that low occur, and which we all know of :
1. The patient complains of a feeling of weight and fullness of the stomach.
2. Distension of the bowels by wind.
3. Heartburn.
4. A feeling of weariness, pains in the limbs and great sleepiness after meals.
5. A bad taste in the mouth, especially in the morning, and furred tongue.
G. Constipation, with an occasional attack of diarrhoea.
7. Headache in front of head.
S. Depression of spirits and great melancholy, with lassitude and a disposition W
everything for to-morrow.
All of the above symptoms go to show functional derangement of the liver; and now orf
great importance of any error made as to the condition of the patient. He should immedia“
vide himself with a LIVER ITIMULAXT, the most common form of whioh is a Pill. K
perience shows that this, v hen the Pill is compounded properly, is the readiest mode of inoK
promoting the action of the uiver, and can he almost always relied on. I have devoted man? lf
my life, as m«ny of you now before me know, to compounding a Pill that will act readily an<l l
atieaiiy as a Bilious Remedy. Ido not believe in great purgatives, and therefore have made
of which is an active and thorough dose. I have called it
Or. Haddock’s How Liver Pill (Sugar Coated
One Pill is a Dose! One Pill is a Dose! One Pill is a Dose!
For all Diseases of the Kidneys, Dr. Haydock’s New Liver Pills are a perfect cure.
will satisfy the most sceptical.
For Pfma'o Diseases, Nervous Prostration, Weakness, General Lassitude, Want of ApP e, ‘
Sick Headncbe, Dr. Haydock’s New Liver Pills will be found an Effectual Remedy.
They are universal in their effects, and a cure can almost always be guaranteed.
Each vial contains Twenty Pills—One Pill is a Dose. Price Twenty-Five
FOB SALE BY ALL DRUGGISTS.
Every Pill is Suawr Coated■ If your druggist does not keep them, we will mail them free* 11
drees on receipt ot 25 cents. Five vials for $l.OO. BUY AT ONCE. DO NOT DELAY. t
CAUTION.—To secure the genuine Haycock’s Pills, observe thatthe signature of J. fa
Agent lor the United States, is written on every dozen packages. Purchase none without W
As Dr. Haydoek’s Liver Pills are entirely different from the 212 kinds now in the market/
tic can have a sample bottle sent him free on receipt of his name and address.
HAYDOCK & CO., New York, TjJ
Hi mi
Alei. Borthwick.
WALLPAPER, PAINT, &c.
2,31. Q-eorrgre-st., 537-d.xa.#'
OFFORD & CO.’S HA 1
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
Next to iioyal Hotel, and at 652 George Str^t
KSiiSSASre
STAR & GARTER FAMILY HOT
No. 104 KING BTREET, SYDNEY. J
THIS Hotel is centrally situated, being cose to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre, 3 ,
Superior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class Wm 6 * J
Tbe rioat Gomlortabie and Commodious Private Bar iu the city.


THE
BULLETIN
Vol 3 —No. 140 -New Series.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 16, 1886.
Frio*—64.
The Pope Speaks.
The Bulletin -
BATURDAY, JANUARY 16, 1886.
Under this title the Bydney Freeman’s
Journal publishes a synopsis of Leo XIII.’s
last Enoyolical. It is
ft dooument whioh—
assuming the correct-
ness of the resume—
belongs to a much
higher order of art
than the Russian de-
spatches from Merv or
even than Lord Bba-
consjtbld’s state-
ments on his return
from the Conference
at Berlin. In the two
latter cases, although
oredit is due to the
Muscovite general and
to the British states-
•man for the admirable
gravity they pre-
served while supply-
ing their oountrymen
and the world with
simple truths of the
Jules Vbbne pattern,
still their art was not
consistent. Through
rents in the garb of
seriousness with whioh
they covered their real
views, you got occa-
sional glimpses of the
mookery that lay be-
hind. Not so with Luo
XIII. To such per-
fection has he brought
the an celare artem
that, although you
know he is laughing
all the time, you can
never actually detect
him. It is said that
no man with a sense
of humour ever in-
vented or even intro-
duced a new religion.
His face, during the
most solemn rites,
would betray him.
Since reading the En-
oyolical, however, we
believe that, by con-
stant practice extend-
ing over a number of
years, one’s features
may become so accus-
tomed to immobility
that the muscles, par-
ticularly of the m outh,
refuse to perform
their office whether
the provocation oomes
from a maxim of
Rochefoucauld or a
flash from Voltaire,
It is a singular docu-
ment. Let us exam-
ine it.
* * *
“ A governing author-
ity is necessary for men
constituted in civil sc-
ciety-an authority which
1b derived from nature and consequently has God
for its author. . . . Whatever be the kind of
Government, the heads of States ought to have
their eyesflxed on God . . . and . , . should
take him for a model and a rule Thus
will subjects come to resoeot authority, recog-
nising that it comes from God. To despise legiti-
mate authority, no matter in whom it is vested, is
no more permissible than to resist the Divine
Strange, is it not, to think of an aged
man’s sitting at his er i ‘ha world’s most
famous city-a city which has witnessed the
rise and fall of every form of rule devised by
man—to write in tierce condemnation of the
right of men to change their type of govern-
ment? Was the authority of Charles, of
James, of Georoe Ilf., of Lours XIV.,
Charles X., Lours PHTLirpr, the second
Republic and Louis Napoleon legitimate?
If it was, then the English, Americans, and
THE RIGHT HEN JOSEPH CHAMBERLAIN.-(See page 7.)
LEADER OF THE ENGLISH RADICALS.
Frenoh have constantly rebelled against
Heaven. Cromwell, William 111, Wash-
ington, Napoleon I, Louis Philippe,
Lamartine, Louis Napoleon, and Gam-
bbtta were traitors. But, if it was not,
then it was the rulers they pulled down who
were the rebels, if the Papacy acknowledged
the right of the Stuarts, the Guelphs, the
Bourbons, and the Republics to rule, why
did it subsequently ck-owledge as lenti-
mate the authority of those who destroyed
or defied them ? If the Bourbons ob-
faiael their power from God, the Pope
who crowned the First Bonaparte was
false to his trust. Hortensb's bastard
not a'one des'roytd the ill-fated Go-
vernment of MS, to which he had
sworn allegiance, but destroyed France
afterwards. Having bribed his drunken
soldiery to murder in cold blood hundreds
of -Frenchmen and Frenchwomen, he sent
hundreds of the flower of the nation to rot
in the swamps of Cayenne. By means of an
a Iministration where every second man
was a thief, and of a court where every
seoond woman was a trull, he so debauohed
a gallant nation that when at last she re-
covered from her long intoxication it was
to find her provinces ov< r-run and a
bracing religion In spirit and truth-not that
which one prefers, but that which God has pre-
scribed, and which indubitable proofs establish as
the only true one-so political societies cannot,
without a crime . . . neglect religion as some-
thing alien and useless, or accept one of a number
of religions indifferently, according to their good
pleasure. . . . Numerous and clear proofs,
such as the truth of prophecies, the multitude of
miracles, the testimony of the martyrs, and other
similar arguments show that that is the only reli-
merciless foe knocking at the gates of the
citadel. Yet there was no protest from
Lao’s predecessor against this regime of
shame. Louis’ authority was “ derived
from nature, and consequently had God for
its author.” The authorship was strength-
ened by the Pope’s blessing. French bishops
slept on down while Victor Hugo starved
in exile. But neither the Divine suzerainty
nor the Apostolic
blessing, backed up by
an Empress’s genu-
flections before gold
Madonnas and lighted
tapers, availed aught
in keeping the hereti-
cal Prussians from
marching under the
Arc dc Trtomphe.
* * m
“The right of go-
verning can only come
from God,” says the
Encyclical. Granting
such to be the case, it
would naturally fol-
low that the men and
women whom the
Creator seleoted for
such exalted duties
would be the best He
could find. If such is
the faot, then, indeed,
is human nature irre-
deemably corrupt.
For it is notorious that
the great bulk of the
world’s monarchB
have been murderers,
lechers, fribbles, or
fools—sometimes all
four. Take our own
rulers from the time
of the Norman con-
quest. The bare reoord
of their lives consti-
tutes one of the mean-
est and bloodiest
pages in the annals of
mankind. Shocking
inhumanity, unbrid-
led lust, treachery,
superstition, ignor-
ance, stupidity un-
fathomable, meanness
immeasurable, fill the
dreary page from top
to bottom. No, we
cannot compliment
the Deity on His selec-
tion. Yet it was to
amuse these creatures
that brave men will-
ingly gave up their
lives and chaste
women their virtue—
that lawyers drafted
savage laws and
pi ies ts sang Te Deurm!
* * *
But we must hurry
“ Therefore, to east off
obedience and produce a
revolution in a country
by means of sedition is
treason not only against
man but against Go».
... As the greatest of
all duties is that of em-


Ibieh Jesus Chrtst himself founded. . . •
ion has divided the government of the hu*
ice between two powers—the ecolesias ca
,e civi'. ... One of them has for its
aate&nd chief atm the oare of the goods ol
orld, the other the attainment of the goods
ven that are eternal.”
terrible to think of tho long lino of
rious men who, in order to raise their
rs—to dispel the dense clouds of ignor-
in which their struggling brothers were
ped—braved neglect, calumny, hunger,
i itself, and then think of the millions
with the star of the twentieth century
it on the horizon, look up with rever-
to the writer of such jargon! Aceord-
o it there is not a ruler in the world
e authority is legitimate. All the
les and presidential chairs on earth are
©sent occupied by rulers who rule by
leoi former revolutions. If James 11.
right then all his successors were wrong.
iuis XVL derived his power from God,
ice does Grew obtain his? Fhancls
ph should still be Emperor of Gei-
y, and Victoria Queen of America,
re will the absurd list end ? In
'gling to be free ail Irishmen wei e
;y of “treason, not alone against
but against God.” Bo were the
i, the Poles, the Hungarians, the Bal-
ms, and the French. Or is it that, in
ir to obtain the Papal benediction, re-
-9a must be successful ? This is a danger-
doctrine to preach. For it approves of
mepticil but victorious sanscutoiism of
ittd condemns ihe Irish national rising
)8. Leo’j denial of a mau's right to
lie his own religion, aud his idea of
,t constitutes “iudubitable” pn ofs of
Catholic faith are simply delicious. If
deaths of martyrs prove the truth of a
ef, all religions are equally tiu© and
ally false. The verity of C itholicism is
pore i stablished than that of Protestant-
pv Judaism by the slaughtrof St. Bar-
femew, the fires of Smithfleld, the
motion of the Vaudois, or the abomiua-
is of the Inquisition. Bo far, again, as
aoles are oonoBrned, those of the Parsers,
Idbists, and Mahommedans are much in
auca of ours. Zoroaster walked for a
ith on the sea, while our Saviour was
tent with an hour or two. Bdddh a fasted
0© months at a stretch, was fed for six
rs with figs and honey by an ape, and,
h onesermoD, converted twelve thousand
kee. A leg of mutton told Mahomet that
vas poisoned; the moon not only stood
Pat his command, but he (ve quote from
vino's “ Life of Mahomet” )
Compelled the obedient lumii ary tender by
( tight sleeve of bis mantle, acd go out by tho
l- then to divide into two parts one of which
nt towards the Hast and the o-her towards the
st, and, meeting in the centra of the firmament,
ntted themselves into a round and gtorinie
j thus see that, if the testimony of
racles Is permitted, Christianity will be
iced rather at a disadvantage. So with
jphesies. It will be time enough to settle
b question of whether or not they have
en fulfilled, when any two persons can be
md to agree on their meaning. Ihe
uroh says that certain things are foretold
the Old Testament. TLe Jevs, whose
pefatbers wrote the books, say they are
t. Surely it would be only fair to al ow
ese stubborn people a voice in deter min-
g W oat their ancestors meant. The He-
?©w's trustworthiness may be open to
* pie ion when vending ready-made cloth-
g, but it is improbable that he would
xe liberties with his sacred volumes. We
sn oonotive nothing more irritating than
1 write a book and then be told by a
ranger that you did not know what you
eant, while he did. It is not surprising
i*t this stiff-neoked tribe has abandoned
He literature, and taken to book-making,
’hen it meets with treatment like this.
m • 0
** The attainment of the goods of heaven
lat are eternal” appears to be the raison
•etre of the eoclesiastioal power. But unl-
ersal experience shows that the attain-
ment of earthly goods is not beyond its pro-
mise. When a man preaohes the advantages
f poverty while living in a palace, he must
lo t be surprised if an unreasoning world
hoots out the tongue and passes on. When
he founder of a faith is content with rags
md refuse while his followers demand dia-
nonds and dainties, it requires subtle argu-
ment to show the applicability of semper
ladem . It is estimated that, before the
formation, one-third of all England was
Jhuroh property. It would thus seem that
the possession of a fair share of the ephe-
meral goods of this world is not incompatible
with a firm belief in the superiority of po-
verty. A few more excerpts from this power-
ful Encyclical, and we have done. The Vioar
at Cubist unsparingly condemns anyone
w l ho ventures to “freely think on whatever
subject he likes,” and, with keen acumen,
points out that, “in a society founded on
those principles, Government is only the
will of tho people.” A Government erected
on such a shifting foundation as the people’s
will is apt, we are told, to consider “that
no religion should be publicly professed;
nor ought there to be any inquiry which
of many is alone true; nor ought ©ne to be
preferred to the rest; nor ought one to be
specially favoured, but to enc’: al'ke equal
rights ought to he assigned.” There is little
doubt that Dabwin knew more of biology,
Draper of other sciences, and Mill of logic
than all the Popes from Bt. Petek rolled
into one. But it was wrong for them to
think as they liked. The Church alone pos-
sesses that right. In other words, the per-
son who never got beyond long-division is
to lay down rules for the mathematical
guidauce of him who worked out the differ-
ential calculus. Suppose that States did in-
quire which of many religions was true, and
rejected Catholicism, what then ?
* * *
“The idea prevails,” his Holiness sorrowfully
goes od, “ that princes are really nothing but
delegates to express the popular will. . • The
uncontrolled right of thinking and publicly pro-
claiming one’s thoughts is not inherent in the
rights of citizens. . . The origin of public power
is to be sought from Goo Himself and not from
the multitude. . . The Church judges it not
lawful that the various kinds of Divine worship
Bhould have the same right as the true religion.”
Many more opinions equally luminous are
to be found soattered through this able
letter. Far be it from us to say that princes
do not derive their power direct from God.
We merely suggest that the number of
bayonets they have behind them is an
important factor in the matter. The widen-
ing the Paris streets in order to give “ grape ”
fair play among the crowds may have been
one of the ways in which Providence de-
clared in favour of Louis Napoleon. Pro-
vidential manifestations assume various
eh .p» a. In Burmah they appear as a British
expedition—as a French in Madagascar. A
visit to our own Parliament might lead
to tin opinion that the members’ right
to “ think and publicly proclaim their
thoughts” could safely be curtailed, but
for the suspicion that they do neither. In
conclusion, we can frankly recommend the
last Eu cyclical to the curious amongst us,
who, while denied the right of thinking for
themselves, are not prohibited from collect-
ing literary curiosities.
Fob[?]rtsoniaa Libaralism
The man uninfluenced by personal bias
who, having read Sir John RobeiiTson’s
address to the electors of Mudgee, will say
that it indicates the adoption of Liberal
principles—which, we have been told, were
to characterise the programme of the Go-
vernment-must be the possessor of a lower
order of intelligence than we should expect
to find outside of the Ministry. Sir John
has bren likened to an old hen with one
chicken —“my land-law” —and a perusal of
the address shows that the old hen is
stilt disconsolate because of the death of the
chicken. The old law was as illiberal as any
land measure could be. Instead of settling
an industrious class of people on the soil, it
has created a source of future trouble and
possibly bloodshed: that is, large landed
estates. The new law has serious imperfec-
tions—in fact, according to our view, it is
founded on entirely erroneous principles—
and in what way does Sir John Robertson
propose to amend it? He has persistently
denounced the Act as a squatters’ measure,
yet he now proposes to alter it so as to make
it more decidedly a law in favour of the
squatters. A better friend than Sir John
the squatters emld not wish to have. They
have a! way 8 said : “ Give us a secure tenure
at a fair rental and we shall be satisfied;
you may be sur e that if we know there is no
possibihty of the confounded selectors tak-
ing the land from us we shall use it to the
best advantage by making improvements.”
They have, under the new law, got secured
leases for 20 years; the rents have not yet
been fixed, but when they are we venture
to predict that they will be found to be
totally inadequate the much-talked-of
drought and the fall in the pric-J of wool are
propitious circumstances for the squatters,
considering that their rents are to
be appraised almost immediately—and
now air John says in effect:—“ln addi-
tion to the advantages with which you have
said that you would be satisfied, I will
take care that you get compensation for
your improvements on the expiry of your
leases.” Truly a Liberal idea—for the squat-
ters ! The compel sation is to be paid by the
incoming tenant, and it is assumed that for
the privilege of “fleecing” their successors,
the men now in possession will willingly pay
the Government £500,000 at the outset. For
what ? To secure the repayment to them-
selves of £10.000,000, which it is estimated will
be spent on improvements within 20 years,
from which improvements they will have
derived enormous profits! This is the
statesmanlike way in which part of the de-
ficit left as the result of Dibbs’ bungling,
D abbey's Imperialism, and Stuart's re-
oent incapacity is to be made up.
* * *
When the Land Bill was under considera-
tion Sir John fought most pertinaciously
against the principle of compensation, ex-
oept in the form of allowing the lessees to
purchase land in virtue of their improve
ments. Why does he not adhere to that
policy ? Because he lcoows that the people
are unmistakably opposed to it. The pro-
posal which he now makes is still more
vioioua. Under the old improvement pur-
chase system, the State, while giving the
lessees a privilege —and one which was
much valued by the squatters—gained a
pecuniary advantage—that is, if it can be
assumed that there is any advantage in dis-
posing of land at £1 per acre; but under
Sir John’s new idea the lessees alone will
have an advantage. The principle of glv
ing compensation to the squatters can only
be justified on one ground, viz , that they
have some right to the possession of the
land beyond the term of their lease.
They are not compelled to make any im-
provement whatever—so long as they pay
the fixed rental the demands of the
State are satisfied. It is only right
to suppose that when they make improve-
ments under these circumstances they ex-
pect to derive compensating advantage
from them during their term of occupancy
of the land. They have no light to expect
to be paid for any advantage whioh may
accrue after they have ceased to have any
legal title to the land; to assume to the
contrary would be to hold that they had a
perpetual hold of the land. There may, of
course, be exceptional cases, in which it
would seem just to give a man compensa-
tion for valuable improvements; but, on
broad grounds the principle is not defen-
sible a 9 applied to the lands of the people.
» * *
It does not require much consideraiion to
discover that Sir John’s latest proposal is
thoroughly impracticable, or that if it were
put iuto practice it would be manifestly
unjust to some one. Suppose that a lessee
puts improvements on his run and that the
appraisers appointed by the Government
say that the incoming tenant must pay
£5OOO for these, can the State reasonably
ask him to pay a rental which will corres-
pond with the increased value of the land ?
If it can, the new tenant will have to pay
twice over for the improvements, and in
one instance to a man who has no right to
the land. Or suppose that, on the expiration
of the lease, no one applies fora new l<?ase,
is the old lessee to continue in pes- e?sion of
the land at the old rental, until someoneelse
offers to pay the exorbitant sum which he
and the Government appraisers may say
represents the value of the improvements?
For what length of time are the improve-
ments to retain the value for which the lessee
is to be entitled to compensation ? What
improvements are to be allowed for V What
is to be the basis of valuation—the increased
value of the land or the actual cost of the
improvements? Will not the piinciple, if
applied in any form, leal to more gigantic
frauds than were ever perpetrated under
the improvement-purohase system ? fcir
John claims that one of the advantages of
bis proposal is that the Government will
never be called upon to pay the compensa-
tion in auy form. Suppose that, on the ex-
piry of a lease, the Minister determines that
the land is required for the purposes of
settlement, who, then, will pay the squatter
compensation for his improvements? Th« A ct
in its present form will not permit of selec-
tors being saddled with such a burden, and
hence, if it is to be borne at all, it will have
to be cast on the shoulders of the State. We
could continue these pertinent questions to
any extent, but it would be a wa«te of ink,
paper, and of precious space, and an un-
merited reflection on our readers’ intelli-
gence to do so—the absurdity of the latest
Robertsonian craze it too se’f-evident to
need pointing out.
* * *
If this is one of the “Liberal” principles
which is to bind Mr. O’Sulmvan body and
soul to the new Government, he must have
a very much mistaken notioD of the demo-
cratic mission which he professes to pursue.
In his address to the electors of Young the
Minister for Lands—with the concurrence of
his colleagues, it is to be presumed—openly
advocated the repeal of one of the redeem-
ing features of the Stuabt Land Act —that
which provides for a periodical increase
of the rents of runs. The Govern-
ment proposals focussed mean that the
squatters are to get the full benefit of the
pastoral resources of the land, and of rail-
ways and other conveniences provided
by the State, the latter receiving from
its valuable estate something les3 than
will pay the cost of administration. If
this be Liberalism, we confess at once that
we don’t understand it.
W « »
Then we are told that payment of mem-
bers is to be a plank in the Government
platform. The principle has had the con-
sistent advocacy of The Bhixetin, but we
do not care to see it sacrificed to suit the
purposes of Sir John Robebtson. Has he
not, all through his long and injurious—to
the country —politioal career, been a deter-
mined opponent of the system; and what is
more, did he not, in the last speech which
he made in Parliament, sneer it in an un-
disguised manner ? If the principle is worth
contending for, it is because of its sound-
ness as a principle, but not as a means of
catching votes with a view of keeping in
office a body of men whose oDly claim to
their positions is, that, out of 120 members
of the Assembly, a less oapable Ministry,
viewed in any light, could not b** selected.
Here is another example of the “ liberalism’ ’
of this extraordinary Government. Three
members of it are pronounced Protrc-
tionists—Messrs. Heybon, Garrarb, and
Vaughn— and one, Mr. Young, an avowed
advooate of intercolonial Freetrade—which
means the opening of a splendid market for
the manufactures of Victoria. Yet we are
told that it is the intention of the Govern-
ment to maintain the settled fiscal policy of
the country —Freetrade! How can Mr.
Heybon reconcile his position in the
Government with his self-assumed position
as leader of the Protectionist party ? What-
ever hope that gentleman may have had
of political distinction, he has most un-
doubtedly lost it for ever by his action in
joining a politician who is opposed to him
in every important principle which he
espouses.
The Law and the Gospel.
!!ontest between Joseph Symes, the leader of
elbourne Secularists, and the Victorian Go-
nent la one of the most Interesting lights
1 have come off In these colonies for many
r year. There is a principle at stake in it, a
aotive for warfare, which is more than can
id for most political conflicts. Excepting to
selves and their immediate friends and
ies, what does it matter to a colony whether
orkins set are “ Ministers of the Crown,” or
ORKins set ? People at a distance, to whom
are only names, can discern no real difference
een them. Let a person in Montreal, for In
ie, be told that Dibbs and his lot have just
ejected from office in New South Wales, and
srtson and his lot taken their places, what
he care ? And no amount of explanation can
3 him care a fig more about it than we should
i were told that Chibbs, Premier of Canada,
?one out, and Jobertson, leader of the Op-
don, had come In. But let us hear from any
of the world that an attempt had been made
;he men 1m power, egged on by the re-
entatives of religious bigotry, to silenoe and
h some prominent heretic, and that after a
’s hard fighting the heretic had baffled and
en the would-be tyrants, and was holdirg
a up as a public JaughlDg-stcck, and our
patbies are at once enllßted one way or the
>r. If we be social fossils unacquainted with
threat movements of the modern world, or .are-
tus troglodytes dwelling In the dark caves of
ent superstition?, we shall regret the heretic’s
mph, and marvel at the mysterious ways of
God; if wo bo lovers of freedom, students of
oce, and full of faith in the possibilities of
lan progress, we shall rejoice that persecutors
e been foiled, and an Intended victim become
ior. Anyway, the struggle would have a mean-
and wc should take sides in it.
* * •
)is it with Symes* battle. Leaving details for
ge immediately concerned, the broad facts of
conflict will command attention everywhere.'
) struggle has been a double one, affecting cn
one hand a free platform and, on the other, a
a Press. In both, the object of authority has
n the eamo—an attempt to prop up the Gospel
the aid of the law. Symes, as a stauneh believer
Beoularism, attacked the Gospel—attacked it
,h argument and attacked it with ridleule, at the
ae time proffering an open platform to whomso-
ir would some forward to defend it. One or two
ipherds of the flock ventured to debate with the
retie, but their success was not overwhelming—
t sufficiently encouraging to induce a rush of
w champions. Thereupon the Government was
treated—nay, commanded—by a section of the
iry and their followers and Press organs to pro-
jute, and, if possible, suppress. A musty Act
s dug out of the depths of old-world tyranny,
d Symes was committed to take his trial as a
iminal charged with keeping a “disorderly
use.” People had come to listen to him of their
rn free will—nay, had even paid at the doors to
ter—there had been no clang, clang, clang of a
eat bell, to the annoyance of a peaceable nelgh-
mrhood; there had been no beating of
urns in the streets, blare of trumpets and yelL
gof excited voices—the meeting had assembled,
said, and dispersed as sedately as anyfashlon-
ile concert audience. But Syme i had to stand in
e dockjof a Criminal Court—a Criminal Court
ulyinthis case—charged with keeping a dis-
•derly houB9. He defended himself, no jury
3uld be persuaded to convict, and when he pre-
snted himself to be tried a third time, he w»B in-
jrmed that the Government had given in. Hft
latform was free.
* * *
The Act under which bis newspaper, the
.iberator, was assailed is one which has been
epealed in England as out of harmony with the
imes, but is still in force—or rather we should
ay unrepealed—in some of the colonies. By i's
irovislons the publisher of a newspaper sold
or less than sixpence is called upon to obtain
uretieß for £6OO against the publication of bias,
ihemy and sedition. The greater part of the
lewspapers published in Victoria pay no atteo-
,ion to this Act, but Symes was singled out for
>rosecution under It, and fined £36. Ho has been
ssked to pay this sum, with costs, the whole
amounting to £136 10?. sd. He sends a laughing
reply, inviting bis perplexed persecutors to seize
ais personal estate, which is less than that of a
bishop, or his carcase, if they have the courage to
cast him into prison. Meantime, the Liberator,
the property of a company, with limited liability,
continues its aggressive career, and has been
made the best advertised paper in Australasia.
• * •
The moral of all this is that it la about time the
Gospel and the Law parted company. The Gospel
Is either true or it is not true. If it be true. It can
stand attack and ridicule as easily as the system of
Copernicus or the Gravitation theory of Newton.
If It be not true, no persecution can help it which
stops short of the stake. It is childish to begin to
persecute a little, and only fools, or what is the
same thing, bigots in a passion, would suppose that
they could silence earnest men by anything short
of death. So trot out your Melbourne Inquisition
and Flemington Racecourse Auto-da-fe, pious
Christians of the South, or else let Symes and his
confreres have the same liberty to attaok and
satirise you that you claim In dealing with him.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
At a Public Banquet.
At a dinner given the other night to an unsuc-
cessful suburban Parliamentary candidate, a
bump tiouB young orator proposed the health
0 f the Legislative Assembly of New South
Wales in something like thv following fashion:
—“The grave duty with which I am en-
trusted has taken me quite unawares—[he’d
been stewing over it for a week]. I feel
I cannot do it justice, aDd trust you will
charitably overlook the shortcomings, of which
no one is more conscious than lam myself. I be-
lieve that the Parliament of Now South Wales
W lll compare favourably with any similar
body in the world, not even excepting
the House of Commons. There is no doubt
that it oontains tbe very cream of the
colony’s intellect. Would-be aristocrats affect
to think otherwise, end meet the statement with a
supercilious snetr. These pinohbeok representa-
tives of a moribund and rotten social system pre-
tend that outside tbe House are to be found men
of intelligence and education who have never
made a political appeal to the people and are
never likely to do so. lam far from denying that
a few such may be found, but they are the excep*
t ion. lam still convinced that at a full attendance
in that legislature which is tbe pride of this
eountry and tho envy of all others, will be found
ail that this great people can boast of dignity,
learning, and courtesy. There will be heard logio
which would strike a Burke or a Gladstone
with astonishment; polished repartee which would
send a Sheridan or a Disraeli moodily home,
convinced that sarcasm, playful or pungent, had
left England for good and secured a Arm footing
In New South Wales. Occur Statute Book will be
found laws of which Ltcurgub never dreamt -
edicts which surprise strangers with their compre-
hensiveness and humanity.” The lad poured out
a deal more of similar slush whioh was heard
high over the clinking of glasses and tbe buzz of
conversation. The young applauded, while the
middle-aged and elderly moodily drank undiluted
alcohol, and greedily applied themselves to the
dessert till beads of apprehensive perspiration
formed a network of tributaries on the caterer’s
brow before merging into the main channels
B urglng af each side of his nofe. We have'atteDdid
many sittings of the New South Wales Parliament,
looked over the Statute Book, and heard the racy
badinage of the Hite, We can only say that
If our members compare favourably with others,
representative government is doomed. If they
are the cream of the colony, the ordinary milk is
• highly attenuated fluid. Why, out of the whole
120 or so, there are not 20 who have even an ele-
mentary acquaintance with Byntaotioal peouliari-
ties-not 10 who can speak a few minutes without
making bizarre blunders in pronunciation or con-
struction. With tbe exception of a night spent at
a rustle tea-meeting, or at a eountry performance
by local Christy minstrels, we know of nothing
that equals In inspired dulness the proceedings of
the "cream ” when an important question is being
harried—nothin* that fills one with gloomier re-
grets that the Chinese tongue, or some aboriginal
dialect was not the only form of speech
With which he was acquainted. And the
Statute Book, tool Alasl There will bo found,
enaoted with acclamation by the “ Intellect of the
colony,” laws which, it is not too much to say,
would disgrace a tribe of Papuan head-hunters
Twenty-one crimes for which death is the penalty,
numberless offences for which torture can be
applied. Among the latter are misdemeanours
which, except in Australia, would be met by trifl-
ing fines or short imprisonments. Leaving out tbe
brutal legislation of early colonial days, we know
of no sadder recent record of man’s inhumanity to
man than the New South Wales Statute Book.
At the present moment,the oolony possesses a more
scandalous penal code than any other civil sed
country in the world-bar none. The shadows of
the gallows and of the triangle rest upon it. For
shame, young maD I Go take a year's tour round
the world. If you come back with unaltered
views of New South Wales laws and legislators,
t“en, Indeed, Parliament will be your fitting place.
+
A Successful Insect.
enniker Heaton’s return fixes a good lunp of
mud on the halo of genius and glory with which
® personnel of the British House of Commons
as hitherto been invested in the eyes of young
stralians. It shows that the sweepings of the
ustralian political gutter-men derided by all
msses of society under the Southern Cross—may
ana fimfOotlng ln “ the beBt ” English circles,
unrt 6V6n bloBBom Into “lords” and “dukes”
oet the benign influence of the Great Bear.
lueoM Uth ’ a * plainly demonstrated by Heaton’s
a 8 aQd ® AIjMON Wilson’s strongly-supported
nature, is that the much-vaunted blue-blood
and tw ® Q * ,and 19 desperately short of ability,
brae at Cburcb an d Court are prepared to em-
how| 6 the meanest Political crawler who will
their fVJ ave a b£nner * or a P eQ d some lucre in
uf a 1 causo * 1 Q tbe mrre limited society
u uder o, cotocieB you 800 Q set your man
one's o ® lorcsc ope-just as on board ship or In
cannor T n hou3e oaeB fellow-passenger or guest
real r .i, ° nj? fail <0 d splay to the observer the
iuampftarf Cfc tl istio3 of h s nature » aQ d expose
*lll nrnK K, e the rccssse3 of bis heart. Heaton
Politinai , never get fully under the social or
never ri m . icroBc °P e in tbe old country. He will
by al| T® to Rn eminence on which he will be seen
“under rh* before he leffc Australia he was really
tbe cruel x lens ’’-Pinned and squirming, like
ar en . outomologist’s death-doomed bug. We
gresaL’ Beoond thoughts, sure that we rightly
bosition if 1 Hbatqn w:11 not attain elevated
*opher « Hlgb pinnacles,” says a cynical philo-
PlnionL 6r ® placo3 onJy attainable by mighty-
eagles, and by—— creeping things.”
Federation Fiasco.
in Hoba r <° aol,lnfir meetin7 of the Federal Councij
Why gy r Promises to add one more to the reasons
befor* n a ?. Council should not exist at all. It is
6 * or 14 mlBfl ts its time. It is not
r AtEv* an nor Australian. When, months ago,
1811 Stpart pointed out that its title
isnomcr, its assumption to be tbe Congress
of a Federal Australasia was somewhat less vain
than it is at present. Now New Zealand is
away. On the mainland New South Wales
and South Australia are away. Dropping
the Crown colony of West Australia, whioh,
until its people possess Constitutional Govern-
ment, cannot well be counted as an ally among 1
free States, the federating colonies on the
mainland represent a smaller extent of territory
and a smaller aggregate population than those
whieh stand aloof. A short time ago the isolation
of New South Wales was not supposed to Btultify
the pretentions of the Federalists. It was pointed
out that one colony, with a tenth of the total area
and a third of the total population, could not, if it
chose to sulk, block the way of the others, New
South Wales wes then the fail of the dog. But a
metamorphosis has taken place. Oa the basis of
territory and population the non-Federalista are
now the dog and the others the tail. Victorian ad-
vocates for Federation receive back on their own
heads the arguments with wh'ch they trifd to
break the head of New South Wa'es. But the
metamorphosis tffeoted from the outside does not
destroy more of the pretentions of the Council
than the deoay that has been going on in the
inside. The cnly powerful colony to be represented
at Hobart is Victoria. But the cardinal sentiment
which actuated the Victorian people throughout
the discussion of the question was that wherever
and whenever the Council met the colony’s repre-
sentatives should be men responsible to Parlia-
ment for their actions. Now, neither Mr. Service
nor Mr. Berry will be responsible when the
Council meets. Neither intends to meet Parlia-
ment again. This negatives the primary condilion
on which the Victorian Parliament a&d people
assented to be represented. The irreeponsinility
of Messrs. Service and Berry vitiates therefore
the representative character of their presence.
But this vice will permeate the proceedings. If
in so small a Congress, the two most prominent
men be unreal representatives, will not the
general aspect of the meeting he one of unreality ?
It would be better if the present pretence at
Federation, wh'ch had its beginning In tail-talk,
and which reveals a new weakness every steps it
takes, would summarily extinguish itself, and
leave room for the consideration of a scheme
adapted to the requirements of Australasia as a
whole.
■ ♦- *
Blasters of Thought
At the laying of the foundation-stone of the
Warden’s Lodge, at St. Paul’s College, Sydney,
some remarkable speeches were made. That by
Bishop Barry contains statements whioh will be
nows to many. Among others is the following:—
“There is not in this University, as at Oxford and
Cambridge, a theological taoulty which shall press
into its service, as lias been done there, the real
masters of human thought. There is not here a
University Church, whioh shall gather an academi-
cal audience, Sunday after Sunday, for the highest
religious and doctrinal teaching, and tlie reason of
that, I need hardly tell you, lies not in the preva-
lence here of really secular spirit (for in
hciu>xr?i re * • shal * ? ot for a moment
believe), but it arises unhappily from what
we Christians must confess are the unhappy
rebgtous divisions which are the perplexity
of our statesmen.” So we learn at last that
the “ real masters of human thought ” belong to
the theological faculties of th@ Oxford and Cam-
bridge Universities. Let us see. What additions
have they made to physical science ? None what-
ever. On the contrary, they spat buckets of
venom at the author of the ‘Origin of Species”
and his work—preached how noble it was to be-
lieve that man was formed from a lump of mud.
and how base to suppose that he was but the last
link in an almost interminable chain. Have they not
had, over and over again, ts retreat ignominiously
from the positions they took, trembling lest the
nextscientiflc discovery should destroy all their
carefully-planned outworks, and even knock
the citadel of sophistry about their ears?
If fighting tooth and nail against the teach-
ings of geology and in favour of the six
days of creation, showing pitiable ignorance
and exhausting the vocabulary of abuse
in the Colenso controversy, throwing every
obstacle they could find iu the way of that pro-
gress whieh threatens to brush them and their
sophisms aside, are necisaary ingredients in the
constitution of * master minds ” they may fairly
claim the title. Dil they give us the "History of
Civilisation,” " Sartor Resartus,” " European
Morals,” "Principles of Sociology,” “Conflictof
Religion and Science,” "Martyrdom of Man,” the
lives of Jesus and Mahomet, or any of the great
works which have changed the current of thought ?
Not they. They were too busy securing fat iiving g
by bolstering up absurd doctrines which taught
that an Omnipotent Creator was a bungling
mechanic who had to keep constantly patching
up a universe whieh He Himself made. The real
masters of human thought I Alas, if they were
blotted out and a weir sponge passed over their
works, we would not to-day find men excluded
from Parliament oa account of their opinions, or
standing in felons’ docks in defence of liberty of
speech. No, Dr. Barry, you are really behind the
times. The secular spirit is abroad, and is now so
widespread that whether you or the " masters of
thought" believe in it or not dees not really
matter one iota.
4.
Prominent Paupers.
In the countries where railways are under the
control of the Government there are two classes
of persons who occasionally receive free passes—
paupers and distinguished personages. A New
Zealand oable informs us that the Government of
that colony has granted Cardinal Moran the
special privilege of travelling free upon all rail-
ways in Maorilahd, If this is to catch a
vote, the same courtesy has doubtless also
been extended to Bishop Barry. "Unto him
that hath much shall much be given.” The
munificence of the Government in thus franking
ecclesiastical dignitaries and their suites over the
railways of the colony is no doubt highly appre-
ciated by the recipients of the favour, but, at bsst
it is but a doubtful compliment to those who are
comfortably able to pay their way. For most
eertainly they are degraded to the position of
paupers when they travel at the cost of those
whose every pound of tea and sugar is taxed to
provide free conveyance for "their pastors and
spiritual masters.” The successor of St. Peter
when from his chariot in Rome he throws among
the shouting mob a few email copper coins, re‘
peats the formula, “Silver and gold have I none
but such as T have give I unto thee.” Tt may bej
therefore, that the dignitaries of the Churches are
actually too poor to pay tho cost of travelling on
rai ways, aud are really bona fide mendicants
obliged to and willing to subsist on the public
charity.
When S r John Robertson supported the New
South Wales attempt to redden itself with blood
in the Soudan, a section of the Sydney Tress pro-
nounced him a thorough statesman, with the
qualities of chivalry and political insight pre.
eminently developed. Sir John has now assumed
the position of a statesman, and claims to be the
possessor of a moderate share of political insight.
The two periods touch. That same section of the
Sydney Press now howls itself hoarse in denuncia-
tion of him as an i nbfci'e, a drirellrr, a black-
guard, and an idiot. Furthermore, it writes
oadi-g articles in very good English to prove
that its cor duct is in protect accord with the
truest canons of j mrnal’stlc independence. What
toen, we aek, is journalistic vice, journalistic
time-serving, journalistic jugglery, journalistic
humbug ? Wnen Sir John calls the Sydney Press
a muerable outcome of greed, ignorance, impu-
dence, and drshonesty ho i«, es far as the section
that glcr.fled him for his Soudan behaviour is
concerned, altogether within the mark.
T.a* Katbs of to Ths Btousti*
one year, S4a.: half-year, I2a. Bd.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.— ln advance.
EJJ Advtsktisikg Baib? are sa. per tech i
Wh l3 ii PO ‘ sitioti ;': tp the Paper 7s. Bd. per
rnoa. Paragraph advertisements 1!)8. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows :—Onad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inaer-
H 8 ”®; r . C w nt V.Q For 38 06 »secutive insertionsf
,^ Gr 63 consecutive insertions, 35 per
'6nt. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittentto-
sertioa. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
Il Pfty n ab i e t 0 W / H - TR V LL ? f ° r Joints
£m stamps -if any Australia*
Ool.my may bs* sent, if more ecDvesiknt
When the coroner iuqneßs the Robertson
Ministry the verdict will b®-“ Death from Burns.’
From the Sydney Noozs In science
nothing-can be permaueat'y accepted but that
wM.h ij true.’ This would seem to shut out the
iawyi rs.” And the Evening News.
The Sydney Evening News, of Tuesday.
says:— 1, if you want to know how small a man is,
give him an offic ■, or let h'm bseome suddenly
wealthy.” Evening News writer* should not
venture to twit their employers in this scmdalous
manner.
Joseph LMog, of Montreal, Canada, ex-
amateur sculler of America, rowed his first pro-
fessional match agaiaßt George Hosmer, on 2<th
October; the race was over a three-mile o mree
for £25, and was won by Laiag by throe lengths in
Simla. 15iac.
“ How d'ye like our harbour, M sg Ilarbord,”
Quoth a mariner chief on the starb sard
tide of the buffet ts Lady Caringtoa’s si iter.
Bho glanced at him fiercely, then he missed hor.
“ What a lubber I am! ” the mariner blubbered,
“ For if Bertie is Bartie, why Harbord is Hub-
fcerd.”
For travelling without tickets on a tram-
car in Sydney, two young men were sentenced to
imprisonment. New Zealand offers Cardinal
Moran exemption from paying fares on all the
railways cf Maorilind. “Twero better to bo a
doorkeeper (let alone a Cirdinal) in the house of
the Lord than to dwell in the tontsof unrighteous-
mss.”
“ The police were very active .to prevent
overcrowding at Mr. Symes Freethought lecture
cn Sunday night,” rtrmrks a Syd my daily. Just
so. But the police hiven tto wa"ch the churches
to prevent overoro wding. Toe only reo mt occa-
sion on which r Syl s y church was overcrowded
was when a lot of people went to worship the
Lord (C irmgto.i) at t:e Cathedral.
Advt. from Sydnev Morning Herald,
llth January "Salmon.-January 7, 1880, at the
res deuce of hor son, Mr. Amos Salmon, Rose
Cottage, Sandriogham, Mm H r let Salmon,
rel et of the late Mr. John Salmon, In her 91st year,'
mother of seven children, grandmolher to 49*
great-grandmother to 151, and great great-grand-
mother to nine children. O ver 59 ye irs a resident
of the colony.”
“Coming events cast (heir shadows be-
fore ” is an old saw that cuts up naturally when
we see the name 4 of T. Nunn and C. Bannerman
amongst the ranks of the second C irltoas. It may
not be very long before they both can setlle down
peroranently :n the second flight, but it shows
exceedingly bad form for them, while sti 1 repre-
senting the first eleven, to be constantly found
playing wilh the second. Tie veterans, doubt-
less, thought they alone would annihilate the
Carliogfords, but neither of them succeeded in
reaching double figures. It is time some un-
derstanding war arrived at by the clubs respecting
second e'even matches.
Good news for the comps. The Sydney
Morning Herald will pay i s typos an extra Id.
per 1000 after the advent of the New Year,” We
may fairly claim to have set the ball a-rol'iagin
this direction, we think. It is over a year sine a
The Bulletin surprised its comps, by vo-
unteering to pay them 11. per ICOO more
than any other day compesitois In Sydney
were getting. When the Echo hands heard
of this, they inter vie we i the manager of
the Herald and Echo establishment, and
requested that our move might be imitated.
We understand that they met with a prompt re-
fusal, but that, ou reconsideration, the wealthy
proprietary thought bitter of it. and made the
concession.
When a genuine article suoh as Wolfe’s
'^?.® N 4 PPS has earned a good name for itself
nutations spring up.
Among tonics with an alcoholio basis
® schnapps holds the foremost plaee, and
is besides a good medicine.
Wolfe’s Schnapps. Be sure you obtain
Schnapps. Schnapps as it is the omy genuine
AMUSEMENT
FOB OLD
AND YOUNG
to.bown quite uupt r . pflco U ‘ pStfrleS'od”
CORK BOX.'-A capital multinli-
® a *{oo , tr <« k « Three corks are placed in the box
The thoau^ ie u ce lo be empty*.
J- ae j , Pl®ced on, and when removed them am
fo “° , i sl f corks within. Price Is,, post free Is. 6d
rln nq W l Z u ARI) OP THE NORTH’S CHANGING
ea^ds D wht^ t cbai, P e instantly to other
fr^ttl™ 08 * eurpriBln *
die para?s R through the top®?' a geStlS
manjihatandta found inside. Prills! export
marv EL CIGAR CASE." The cate la
vanteh ° r '‘£l i ne °‘* ar!, » which instantly
leather. fSSfc«J?JI&
MAGIC SNUFF BOX.-A most exoellent
It looks Just ) lFke fi ft C flnH l i e f lBoov ? re(l anywhere,
just nice a solid piece of wood and nn
CStfSwffeSf opeQ 14 but the owner -
CARns GICI A N ’ 3 PACK of forcing
as
ev^?y M «SSn?^ ND w fl^h CaiEF '~ lDdlBpeMab, « to
s&n Ihand^chiefith^??hly 1 hand^chiefith^??hly
Pr&K^Tr n eel thB audieno *
the MAGNETIC PACK OF FLYING CAROS
g&Aaft&rs m smtsMs
o? I them fall in? v aUt,fu * 1 r<, F ul ®rity without one
post free Very asto »^dln ? . Price 2s. Gd ,
t ?ratt. or “ ,J ' oU, “
BS*Thi 0 SS t ,ei« P 4SS?fp^i]s? , i
box to the company, which aii
coins, &S. MS? theVrfomer tSi
it in his hands, without removing it fmm
rtic M instant| y vanish, and the drawer
shown empty, Is. 6i., post frees®. “
THE MAGIC DISSOLVING PACK OF CARDS
7± ate ffi£rato < S?S£
6no«oft to Md them. Om oS, SuSiZSj’&lX
after this Is done, opens fhe case, and Snds Jt fuS
giggy* the «*"•
WITCH m> r W?§}SF£,„St m ™ iND BS-
y._i .• HAND KERCH lEF.—Tbs Performer
SdShtoTt^HeWn^h 0 " 404 8
fthiflfhnpi. ,A e the ° borrows a lady’s handker-
t heaih»« ,pjL°j ash es m the candle, and places
oan . dl ® in the oase again. The lady
°tt 011 to open the ca,e * which Is handed
restored n?,V a * D u d fluda , bor handkerchief
?rfi2 rea l f? ere * n but the cand e entirely irone
very excellent, twnt o a *r ff? 11 **
ffleWj, ss&l
ldfto Sch t ls“ PB tekeQ at Par * otflei col °nies add
Address all communications:
AUSTRALIAN MAGICAL DEPOT
BOX 641 G.P.O. 401 GEORGE-ST., BYDNEF
g&g* **
C. W. EGBERTS
Single Settle Department.
KRUG'S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE
Dsrye Bottle, only 9s,
SaaU Bottle, , [U.M,
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shilling* per Bottle,
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINJ
FOR INVALIDS,
A ustralian port wine,
i*. «d, per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
*• mt
SUM,
In Flasks, let Les, and Imperial Quart*
At lowest possible Prioos,
GIN—IN FLASKS,
Is. Bd. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke* Prije Medal Brand.
in stone bottles and square bottles,
tAsansis sizr,
IRI«H *kb SCOTCH WHISKY,
Old) AND miDDOir.
In flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
&. W. ROBERTS
®norge and Herket Streets,
*'DS T.


Personal
Items
Some of our country contemporaries have
messed up the two Youngs—J. H. and J. D., and
one indignantly asks, “ What haa this aldermanic,
aquatic patron done to justify his being placed In
the responsible position of Minister for Education
in NS.W. ?” Wo don’t know. But, if it comes to
that, what has the other fellow done to justify it
either ?
Mr. Chamberlain, the English Radical
leader, is a member of the Unitarian body, to
Which his father and grandfather belonged bGfore
him, and he was for years a Sunday-school teacher
in connection with the Church of the Messiah,
Birmingham. “No Unitarian,” wrote a leading
light of the Anglican Church in the London
Standard the other day, " can be a Christian.”
Here is the opening paragraph of a re-
cently-published “Life of William T. Stead”
“ It was flve-and-twenty years ago, in the grimy
little town of Howdon-on-Tyne—it was on the
‘ ballast-hill,’ the playground of the children—that
a boy of 13 years old felled to the ground a boy
who had gone.to look at a girl who had turned
aside to tie up her garter. That boy has since be-
come the author of ‘The Maiden Tribute of
Modern Babylon.’ ”
Hoctor Gillbee was a well-known colonist,
an excellent surgeon, and one of the old identities
of Melbourne. He lived and died a bachelor, and
remembered all his friends in his will. The bulk
ol the £40.000 he left was, however, given to his
sister, a maiden but a year younger than himself-
The good lady enjoyed the fortune for exactly a
year after inheriting it. She passed away to what
spiritists call “the inner life ” on the 4th January,
on which day, a year before, her brother had
“ gone over to the majority.”
The Bulgarian army, which has been so
greatly distinguishing itself against its supposedly
superior foes, is, curiously enough, commanded
by mere youths. There is no officer in the field of
higher rank than that of major, and the senior of
these passed his first military examination as re-
cently as 1874. The commanding officer of the ar-
tillery brigade is only a captain, and passed into
the army in 1878, and the battalions and squadrons
are commanded by lieutenants and sub-lieu-
tenants. The oldest officer of the Bulgarian army
is only 35, and the remainder average about 37.
Prince Alexander, who has the chief command, is
only 38.
Explorer Leichhardt’s remains will now
be, for a certainty, always periodically turning up-
Any adventurer, driven desperate, will proclaim
himself a discoverer—with a request for a remit-
tance to bring himself and Leichhardt's swag to
town. It is now some three years ago since we
exposed the humbug of a “discoverer” who
wanted a thousand pounds down for his so-cal led
“Leichhardt relic 3.” Nothing more hes been
Since heard of him or them. Now we have Beloocb,
an Afghan camel-driver, seeking to “ come the old
Bildler ’’over Baron Von Mueller, who has, how-
ever been too many for him. The Biron has con-
sulted the police magistrate nearest to Belooeh’s
quarters. The P.M. advises that Helooch and his
find may be left to get to town as they may.
Whathae become of our dear old friend Classen?
“Come and see bow an American can
diel" the exclamation which came from Freeland
Morrell, as he ascended the scaffold at Melbourne
last week, is a cool speech for a murderer going
to his lest account. It has had its parallel, how-
ever, in many cases. Notably, in that of Thistle-
wood-the Cato-street;conspirator. It was the in-
tention of this gentleman to turn out the
Government of the day in the summary manner
of blowing the Ministers up with gunpowder
while assembled at an Executive meeting. But
for the traitor who turned informer at the last
moment, the change of Government might have
been made as intended. Thistlewood mounted
the scaffold as firmly and as gaily as Freeland
Morrell. “ Come along,” he said to his more ner-
vous fellow-criminals, “ come along, wa [shall soon
know the grand secret.”
“ John , Esq., of Melbourne,” writes a
correspondent apropos of a paragraph in last
Bulletin, “was the inventor of suicide by super,
inducing an explosion of dynamite in his mouth
while in Northern Queensland. He was one of a
ring in Melbourne which was notorious for floating
U bogus ” companies, hut the most sinned against
that body of promoters, because of his truthful.
ness and bonhomie. The ‘ring.’ tried to shift
tbeii* responsibilities and their crimes upon a paid
elerk who, however, turned the tables upon them,
and before long afterwards one had escaped to
England under an assumed name; another was in
Pentridge for embezzlement; another was begging
from his would-be victim'in the streets of Sydney;
and the fourth, after making all the amends in his
wnwer. which only, after all, amounted to verbiage,
had escaped remorse by exploding dynamite in
his mouth. Thus ‘ the whirligig of time brings
in his revenges.’ ”
Lieutenant-General Prendergast, whose
expedition against KingTheebau of Burraab, haa
Added another dependency to the Queen’s do-
Snions; Won hiS laurels in that fruitful field of
SSinction—the Indian mutiny. He was several
times wounded in the battles and sieges which
then took place, hut his conspicuous bravery
bained him rapid and deserved promotion. Sub-
Squently he commanded a detachment of three
fcmipanies of the Madras Sappers in the Abyssinian
war The force under his command in the recent
tlufinese war amounted to 11,000 men of all arms,
And the expedition proved to be a mere military
tolchiC. It is worthy of notice that the late terri-
torial appropriations of England have all tended
to deprive her of that insularity which hitherto has
been her chief means of salvation. The acquisition
of Burmah brings England into direot contact with
China, and very adjacent to France, just as New
Guinea annexation and African appropriations
have made Germany the near neighbour of Eog-
land. It is passing strange that insular isolation
should be British policy in Europe, but that the
reverse should seem to bo her object abroad. We
give the General's portrait.
They all turn up again! There is no keep-
ing away from the colonies by those who have
once been in them. Those who drink of Nile
water thirst for it until they drink again. So it is
said, and is very likely true, for appetite is a “ fine
kitchen ” and Egypt is a thirsty land in which any
drink tastes delectable. We thought of these re-
turning colonists when meeting old Mat. Cantlon,
of the Bull and Mouth Hotel, Bourke-street, Mel.
bourne, airing himself in Collins-street. He re-
tired 30 years ago, when he left for England.
Though 70 odd, he would pass anywhere for 50
For a very wealthy man he retains yet a great
liking for [life. We should grow hlazi if we had
his twenty thousand a year, and be sick of the
tautology of life long before three score and ten
troubled us. Mat. told us, however, that he hoped
to be out again within ten years to sell another
hundred thousand of property, the which is now
his mission.
“Among the crowd of Australians who
are now risking a galloping consumption by win-
tering in London ” (writes our London correspon-
dent) “I select T. C. Binny, Registrar of the Syd-
ney Mines Department, for special mention. Mr.
Binny has come over to represent his Department
at the Indian and Colonial Exhibition, and, for the
present at any rate, he has buried himself deep in
the fastnesses of South Kensington. I am told
that any Australian who wishes to see him must
first apply to his brother (you remember the neat
little man with the eye-glasses!), who contrives to
exist in the neighbourhood of Tavistock Square.
That gentleman is entrusted with the duty of ex-
amining such Australian’s credentials, learning
LIEUTENANT-GENERAL H. N. D. PRENDBRGAST, V.C., C.B , R.E.
Commander of the British Army in Burmah.
hia business and social status, and of generally de-
termining whether he is a fit and proper person to
ticketed and sent on to the great T.C.B, at Kens-
ington. It is easier for an Australian to go
through the eye of a needle (almost) than to ap-
proach the majority of his compatriots in Lon-
don.”
Members out of Parliament need looking
up at times. We came across Longmore last week
—Longmore, Minister of Lands in the Berry Ad-
ministration. With his two sons, he has now a
three-block selection on the Tar win River. Away
from politics, this Gincinatus is here at his farm
fattening cattle for the butchers. Passing down-
wards, we came upon Cleeland, tho winner of the
Melbourne Cup with Wollomai, and for IODg mine
host of the Albion, in Bourke-street. He is now
the freeholder of 8500 acres on Phillip Island, there
growing sheep and wool, and parchment and
horses, and a young family to boot. He said he
was happy, and he looked so. Longmore said that
he was happy too, and got to bed earlier than he
did when at the talking shop. Vale was also
stumbled upon by us the other day. Retired from
Parliament and the Attorney-Generalship, the good
man is building a row of stores between the
Yarraandthe Sandridge Road. It was pleasant
to us to see these popular people, long lost to the
public eye, so “ improving the shining hours.”
Writing of the decadence of the Stuart
Ministry in New South Wales, The CoiiONiES
and India observes that it “was internally
weakened by the severe illness of Sir Alexander
Stuart, who suffers from paralysis, and the desire
of the Attorney-General, the Hon. W. B. Dailey, to
take a trip to Europe and enjoy some of the kudos
which he considers he has merited for his patriotic
conduot in sending the New South Wales Con-
tingent to the Soudan.” Well, we don’t see why
Billy shouldn’t start forthwith. Kudos, eh ? Little
things please little minds. Ho could depend upon
Henniker-Heaton “ and sich ” to get up a banquet
for him, and he might succeed in being made the
first colonial peer, with the title of Lord Plainbill,
of the Soudan. A brand new coat-of-arms could
be concocted for him by the Heralds’ College, with
the Soudan Donkey and Soudan Goat for sup-
porters. Bill would not feel such a coat-of-arms
quite strange to him. He had a lot of donkeys
for supporters all the time. The Heraldic people
would, of course, provide Bill with a pedigree, j
passing over the eld sailor's crimp, and starting
fair with a descent from William the Conkeror,
although, if the truth be told, our dentist is a man
of good extraction compared with Plain Bill.
Zelt, a comedian who had built up for
himself a certain reputation on the banks of the
Danube, recently died at Presburg, leaving a
mountain of billets doux, numbering some 5000,
723 medallion lockets, with as many locks of hair,
410 portraits, 312 scarf pins, and innumerable shirt
studs. Let us see, Verdi—Green William—is not
dead. Hum—how many locks of hair will he leave
and how many billets doux ? Zelt’s is probably a
“ best on record,” and the evergreen William will
have to get to work to mash the score.—
Say, Signor Billgreeno,
You now know what we know,
That Zelt was the champion
Masher—he’s dead.
Well, William, old party,
You're still hale and hearty,
Just take care you're ahead,
When your record is read ;
Pxve thousand of billets
Prom sweet little fillies
Takes beating, eh I William.
One moment, sweet Will,
If you can’t win on woman
We’ll bet you that no man
Can beat you by much
In the matter of “ bill.”
A strong point, such as is never made by
the conventional daily paper, is taken by the
Tumut and Adelong Times:— “ We recently pub-
lished an account of the indignities Mr. Stead,
editor of the Pale Male Gazette, was subjected
to in Coldbath Fields prison ere the voice of an
incens ed public procured for him the treatment of
a first-class misdemeanant. Strangely does the
treatment meted out to the Pale Mall editor
contrast with that accorded to Col. Valentine
Baker, who in 1875 was convicted of a grossly
aggravated assault upon a young lady in a railway
carriage. The Morning Post of that date shows
that Colonel Baker was not annoyed by coming in
contact with other prisoners. He was allowed
to wear his own clothes, buy his own food,
furnish his own rooms, and have wine and malt
liquor at his own cost. He was not required to do
any work, and a prison ofiicial was appointed to do
all the menial duties of his apartments. He was
permitted to have books and newspapers and to
receive visits from his friends between 9 a.m. and
6 p.m. Can we wonder at the indignation and
anger of the masses at such gross official blunder-
ing, or at the fierce denunciation of ‘the powers
that be ’ expressed by journals which profess to be
written in the interests of the people.” It is im-
possible to resist the conclusion that Mr. Stead
was prosecuted in the interests of the aristocratic
caste.
Many years ago, in the days when mining
excitement at Woods’ Point was at its height and
penniless men scouring the ranges, one day dis-
covered reefs which the next day made them
wealthy, and turned them in £60,000 and
£lOO,OOO within a twelvemonth, the Mining
Department gazetted a warden to the field
who had an easy rough-and-ready method of
settling some of the numerous disputes daily
brought before him. On several occasions he de-
cided that neither of the litigants was entitled to
the claim in dispute, but that it was open to be
pegged out afresh. Which meant, of oouise, thatjthe
first man who could get his four four-by-four-inch
pegs ia secured the prize. The first time this learned
magistrate made suoh a decision of course every
man rushed to the spot, and on one occasion, when
there was a dispute on about a valuable piece of
ground some twelve or fourteen miles distant, the
best blood in the district stood saddled round
the court house fence, ready to b 8 mounted when
the fiat came. And come it did, when old and
young, rich and poor, heavy and light, flung
themselves upon their horses and sped away across
country for the glittering itake, which this time
fell to the lot of a well-known Israelite, a brilliant
pianist, who has since been for many years a pro-
minent member of the Victorian Ring, and who,
if rumour is correct, has relations who have since
been connected with Royalty. Now a Cornishman
whose luck had been much against him ruminated
considerably over this warden’s queer decisions,
and, on the next notice of an important dispute
reaching him, he carfully provided himself with
pegs of regulation size and, repairing to theground
from whence he had a good view of the surround-
ing country, sat himself down and lit his pipe.
Quietlyhe waited as'the hours went by. Towards the
wane of day he was rewarded. Over the distant hill
he descries two men riding for their lives. He is up
in a moment. At each corner lies a peg; to drive
them in is, perhaps, the work of five minutes, and
as he hammers home the last one, up ride the two
chagrined contestants who have had a neck and
neck race for the last mile, and have agreed to
divide. The lucky possessor was well rewarded
as the ground turned out one of the richest claims
in the locality, and is being worked to this very
day.
With respect to Captain Sorensen and the
seizure of his vessel, Lieutenant Armit, R.N, t the
New Guinea explorer, writes us from Cooktown:
“ Would you believe it ? I dined with the Corsair
to-day—areal live pirate, and no mistake. One that
Tryon’s old barges couldn’t sweep off the seas, and
who, therefore, magnanimously came here to give
himself up to our outraged laws. He cast anchor
off the port, and then landed to send a wire to his
beloved down in Sydney. This was a chance for
the myrmidons of the law. A posse of police and
Customs men pulled out under cover of darkness,
surprised the bloodthirsty crew, and made the
vessel their very own. Then the pirate’s crew
had to heave up the mud-hook, and the pilot
brought in the prize. It was a glorious deed,
worthy of the days of Nelson, Drake, or Captain
Corooran. lhe arms were piled up in the gang-
ways and sent on shore by the excited victors, and
then the bold Corsair went on board, and—turned
in. Next morning—that is, this morning—the gory
hero of the walk-the-plank business hoisted his
flags, the Portugee at the main, the Danish at the
fore. ‘Down with that flag,’ roared the indig-
nant Cumstoms’ boss. ‘Pull it down yersel,’
quoth the gory one. ‘ You’d better pull it down,’
insinuated Customs No. 2. ‘l’ll be condemned if
I do,’ yelled the Corsair. ‘Hoist the British
ensign,’squealed the Customs’ boss. ‘Nary flag,’
said the wizen-cutter, taking a good look at the
infuriated official on the wharf through the bot-
tom of a beer-giass half full of yellow liquid. Off
posted the magnate and returned breathless, bear-
ing aloft a flag as large as a kid’s pockethandher-
chie and quite as dirty. * Hoist,’ he yelled, hand-
ing it to his subaltern. ‘Yahl’ laughed the
butcher. The police interfered, and hauled down
the arms of Portugal, sending up the flag that
braved a thousand years. ‘You’ve done it now,’said
the pirate, ‘you’ve insulted the Portugese flag.’ ‘We
ain’t,’ cried the posse ‘ your ship’s seized.’ ‘ The
deuce it is I Why didn’t you say so before ? ’ says
he of the deaths-head. ‘You’re a pirate!’ ex-
claimed the army and navy in a breath. ‘ls that
so ? Then I’ll go for a stroll. Ta, ta, boys; enjoy
yourselves on board with the monkey,’ and so
saying, he stepped into his boat and landed. That’s
how I met him. We kissed the baby, and then
changed our breath. He was very communica-
tive, had a cargo of spoil gathered in the Western
Pacific—pearl-shell, bBche do mer, cocoanut oil,
copra, and tortoise-shell, £4OOO worth. But our
pirate enjoys being called a buccaneer. He
couldn’t find a man-o*-war anywhere. Waited
specially for one, but it didn’t come, and so we
captured him. All that yarn about shooting
natives, stealing copra and shell is a pure inven-
tion.”
The Pall Mall Gazette, in announcing
the result of the recent Canterbury election, says!
—“Mr. Henniker Heaton comes from the class
which makes the best members of Parliament. He
has been a journalist, though only in AustraliSi
whither he went in the days of his hot youth to
cultivate land. He first saw light at Rochester,
and was educated at King’s .College, London. In a
political sense, Mr. Heaton is still a stripling*
having seen but 36 summers. He has officially re-
presented New South Wales and Tasmania on
several occasions, and married an Australian
lady.” The Times enlightens its readers as fol-
lows:—“Heaton, J. H. (Canterbury).—Mr. John
Henniker Heaton (Conservative) is a son of the
late Lieutenant-Colonel Heaton. He was born in
1848 at Rochester, and educated at Kent-house
Grammar School and King’s College, London.
Early in life Mr. Heaton went to Australia and
purchased some extensive tracts of land in N.S/W,
and Queensland. He then engaged himself in jour-
nalism, and published ‘ The Australian Dictionary
of Dates and Men of the Time.’ In 1883, Mr. Heaton
was appointed by the Government of N.S.W. Com-
missioner at the Amsterdam Exhibition, and for
his services he received the thanks of that Govern-
ment. He also represented the Government of
Tasmania at the Berlin International Telegraph!®
Conference, in 1883, at which fie obtained valuable
concessions for the colony. He married, in 1883,
the only daughter of the late Mr. Samuel Bennett,
of Mundarrah Towers, N.S.W.” “ Purchased som«
extensive tracts of land,” is good; so is “the
Mr. Samuel Bennett, of Mundarrah Towers.” T* l6
first reads better than “ was tutor to a Riverine
storekeeper, and served in the shop in his sp» re
time,” or “ canvassed for the Jernil in the bacH'
blocks on a sore-backed horse;” and the latter
was far superior to “ Srm Bennett, a shrewd ol«
man who passed his earlier years as a compositor
in the office of the S. M. Herald.” Yet, these
truths are really things to be proud—not
—of, if a man b 9 not too paltry-spirit e “


r^oot nlze the fact. We didn’t know
t 0 that Heaton was eon of a gentleman,
awe venture to say that no person in Australia
h knew him ever guessed that he was. By the
ffh ° we observe in a Kent newspaper that Heaton
to nobly denounce at one of his
had t( nB8 someone who had circulated a pamphlet
mo ® hioh his personal valour was impugned.
a was majestically indignant about this,
oihably the subject of the pamphlet was the
fident of the late Walter Cooper, the horse-whip,
d the sheltering skirts of the barmaid in Punch’s
6 “ lie-house, where the Federal Bank now has its
adney office. We ar§ very confident that Heaton
ould not care to stand before a Sydney audience
W d challenge the truth of those allegations.
THIS WICKED WORLD.
A man who was supposed to have been
drowned in making for the shore from a light-
ship south of Somerset, turned up in Cooktown*
d declares that he had been living for two
„._ths among the blacks, who fattened him on
Aka Chops.. f.The latest novelty in N.Y. is a girl
«hnse feet refuse to be coaled into anything less
Than No 30 shoes; they are lftn. long and 7ssjtn. in
hrfladth. She has exterminated the beetles in her
Kina house. She should go into politics. With
much of her body on the ground she would be
ikliß comprehensively to trample under foot the
ohnses of a depraved age. Another maiden in the
aarne city has four perfectly developed legs, and
k consequently, a great draw, as she exhibits a
large extent of her superabundance of limb.
When angry, she stands on one leg and kicks with
the other three. Up to the present, no man has
been found willing to marry her. In the event of
marriage, the hnsband would probably get all the
kloks and she the half-pence of an admiring pub-
Uo Cardinal Moran should look after this girl for
next religious “Encampment.” Four legs! Fancy!
"Is it difficult to sculp?” asked an aspiring
cheesemonger. " Not a bit,” answered the artist,
"you merely take a block of marble and a chisel
and knock off all the marble you don't want”....
Madame Nevada, who is touring the States with
a concert party, changes her dress after every
Song. It is evident that she considers dress an
important accessory to her performance. /That’s
where burlesque artistes differ from Madame
Nevada.... I 'Shouldn’t let the pig come into the
ateing-room, shouldn’t I ? ” said an Irish peasant;
"an’ why not? Hasn’t the place every con-
tanience thatla dacent pig can require?”..“ How in
the World did they eorhe to name you Susanna ?”
asked Mrs. Black. “ Really, I don’t know how*
precisely,” replied the young lady, very demurely;
" but I sufipeot it was because I happened to be a
jtirh”;. Jtis announced as “a great fact ’’ that at
the last Court battue the German Emperor
Slaughtered 21 head of game “ with his own
breeoh-loador,” which, the obsequious chronicler
adds, was “no bad achievement for a man of 88.”
It is not much of an “achievement” to butcher
deer and other game at the Imperial battues as
the Emperor sits in an easy-chair and the crea-
tures are driven by him within a few yards....
Tennyson’s latest poem is entitled “ Close of An-
other Eve.” How the world does improve! The
first Eve had no clothes on at all, if the photo-
graphs we have seen of the lady are to be relied
Upon..w.The unkindest thing that has recently
been said about the legal profession is embodied
in the remark made in a French provincial court,
the other day, to a lawyer who was oalled as a
witness: “Look here, brother X,” he said, “just
lose sight of your professional character for a
moment and tell us the truth.”,...There are 22
different causes for headache, and late suppers
are 21 of them. The other one is a big dinner,...
"Did you observe anything unusual in the con-
duct and appearance of the defendant ?” asked an
attorney of a witness during the trial of a woman
accused of disturbance of the peace. “ No, sir.”
'‘Nothing! Was she not drunk at that time?”
"She was.” “Is not that something unusual?”
"No, sir; for she’s always drunk.”—A fashion
item says:—“None but young ladies and brides
should wear hats.” All the same, we Bball con-
tinue to wear them. A sensible man would
rather go bare-headed than to wear one of
this season’s ridiculous-looking bonnets, At
a Are recently, a brave fireman came gasping
and panting from the burning building with his
beard and eyebrows singed in the flames. Under
One atm he carried a small but heavy box, which,
bn being opened, was found to contain—six
grenades ” of the new patent fire extin-
guisher.... Lord Rosebery has made an offer to
eaohofthe cottagers on his estate at Hogston,
Buckinghamshire, of a piece of land not less than
half an acre or more than three acres, at 30j. per
acre The number of persons proceeded
against for being drunk, or and disorderly, in
England and Wales for the last five years is:—
1880,172,859; 1881,174,481; 1882,189,697; 1883,192,905;
1884,198,274. Not very encouraging for the tem-
perance party. Female drunkenness is getting
Steadily worse—Lady Rolle, a well-known Jingo
of the most antique type, and widow of the hero of
the Rolliad,” has just died. When Lady Rolle
married, she was 28, and her lord 72. She has sur-
vived him 43 years; and were he living to-day he
would be 135. So that the husband of a lady who
died six weeks ago, and who, two years ago was
giving dinner-parties in London, was born 10
years before George 111. was King, was 19 when
Napoleon I. was born, and had been in Parliament
R years when Louis XVI. was beheaded!.. .
Baroness Burdett-Coutts issued an address to her
tenants urging them to vote against the
uiDerals.... An English patentee gravely describes
be obtains gold from wheat-straw. It will
I ba got from red-headed women... Geneva is
tue refuge of decayed potentates of all sorts,
wot many years ago a Geneva jeweller said to a
tbfbigher who came in his shop, “ Would you like
I? be a king ?*> He replied that he had no objec-
“bn. That gentleman lying at full length upon
yonder seat,” said the Republican shopkeeper,
nio u to b® King of Bavaria.”—The chaplain of
uerkenwell Prison writes regarding the Stead
jjase;— Let me add a word of warning to some.
Pi, re ° ent expose (of London immorality by the
Mall) has been in rem. If the London press
«wL nuea itB Policy and its tone, there must be
«t^ er T^ nd 14 will be in personam ; and then a
will be aroused compared with which the
W£ at b will seem but a passing frown.”
p” the flute-players in the orchestra of the
Palace, England, is appropriately named
OD.° otle ‘ . One of the local papers, with brutal
gives his patronymic as “ Tootiil.” A
wwi 0n ®9 ci ®ty paper complains that visitors to
<vWo«- 0r Pala ce are so badly attended to that it is
of r? impossible to get a box of matches or a cake
ho S”’,, Battenherg is evidently not so active as
5 e -■ •• An English provincial paper con-
maesits description of a fire in this manner:—
mv??our and a-half the fire was got under,
niim? 6 iD ;jured extricated from the ruins. They
jured- 64 18, Beven oi whom were seriously in-
“ Laden with the scent of flowers
And breath of odorous spring.”
oki® of flowers may have been distinguish-
hA?. 8 „be fire, but the odour of rum certainly
jmss around this excerpt.
New Year Reflections.
hopes bloom and wither,
they wither and bloom again,
A , niolody moves from sad to gay,
And sunshine follows the rain,
The gold-grained sands of Time
Kun from Life’s hour-glass,
And none can ever be again
What yesterday he was.
So change alone is constant
And death alone is sure,
AM every heart's b’atis a imoch
Wf Leath upon L-fe s aour.
A.
POPE’S PIN .
The undeserving and cynioal Bohemian who has
never, in commercial phrase, “ consolidated his
position ” by adding up weekly savings in a build,
ing Bociety, cautiously speculating in suburban
land, teaching at Sunday School, marrying into
a rich family, and ultimately attaining the status
of a deacon and a member of the Legislature—and
who* consequently, finds himself all through life
fighting without allies and playing a lone hand—is
apt to sneer at lavish adulation of the sort so often
splashed about at convivial gatherings held in
honour of some departing colonist who has labori-
ously built up a splendid fortune, and is going
to the old country to take his ease. The Bohe_
mian’s contempt for the plentiful commodity in
question may be partly due to envy, but it is
nevertheless based on a well-founded contempt
for that weakness of human nature which almost
invariably prompts financially successful men to
form themselves into Mutual Admiration societies
just as it incites small dogs to proWl found and
sniff respectfully while the big dog gnaws the
bone he has succeeded in annexing from the un-
wary butcher. We do not make these remarks
with especial reference to the farewell picnic
given to Mr. John Pope, of Parmer and Company,
Sydney, at Chowder Bay on Thursday last! hut, as
the names of so many of the powerful phalanx of
business men who attended to do honour to them-
selves and the well-esteemed Mr. Pope (ex-Trea-
surer, by the way, of the bogus “ Patriotic Fund ”)
are constantly appearing in connection with such
affairs, one feels tempted to let them see just for
once in a way how the Guest’s-autobiography-and-
we-are-all-jolly-good-fellows business looks from
point of view.
“Captain Broomfield (we quote from a daily
paper), in proposing ‘Our Guest,’ spoke of Mr.
Pope in highly eulogistic terms, referring to that
gentleman’s connection with various charitable
institutions and philanthropic movements. Three
things especially stamped Mr. Pope’s character.
He was thoroughly loyal to the throne of Eng-
land, and on occasions when something, had been
said against her Majesty, he was the first to speak
out. He was loyal to his Church, and loyal to
his own family. These were three things that
stamped a man’s character, and when a man had
these three qualities', one might be sure that
everything else followed suit. A man true to
those three qualities was true to all the rest.
(Applause.) His loyalty to his Church had been
proved by his giving a site for the Ashfleld church.
(Hear, hear.) As to his business habits everybody
knew that he had put a standing-mark at the cor-
ner of Pitt and Market streets, the goodwill of
his fellow-citizens having enabled him to do
what he had accomplished. He was now going to
England, not for his own pleasure, but to benefit
the health of his family—(hear, hear)—and
everybody hoped the trip would prove exceed-
ingly beneficial to him and all of them. (Ap-
plause).”
It must have been a speech exactly like Captain
Broomfield’s which prompted Marcus Clarke a few
years ago to discourse thus:—
“Business men are the cream of the social bowl-
in their own estimation. The stone pillars, which,
according to the Arabic legend, hold the world up
There never was, or can be, anything to equal
them. You may be the best fellow in the world,
the sole support of an aged mother, and the pro-
tector of a whole boarding-school full of orphan
sisters. You may work like ahorse, and give all
your goods to feed the poof, but if you are not a
Business Man you are sounding brass or a tinkling
cymbal. To be a Business Man is a special gift—a
sort of inherent virtue, like a cast in the eye. If
you are a Business Man you will succeed in busi-
ness—that is to say, you will be a good husband, a
fond father, a conscientious Christian, always vote
with the Government, and when you die you will
go straight to Heaven, If you are a Business
Man people will shout for you, the papers will
write you up, and your friends will give you
prayer-books With gilt edges.”
Lotus see how it looks
CAPTAIN BROOMFIELD: MARCHS CLARKE:
Loyal to his Church Conscientious Christian
Loyal to the Throne Always vote with the
Government
Loyal to his family. Good husband, fond
father.
Captain Broomfield, it will be observed, tells us
that no man who is not loyal to a Throne or to a
certain set of parsons can be a decent and respect-
able person. Those who are Republicans in senti-
ment will, no doubt, accept with becoming hu-
mility the decree of social ostracism which comes
from so distinguished a source; and those of our
American brethren whose fathers fought for
Liberty in the Revolutionary war will, instead of
honouring their ancestors as heretofore, set
those misguided persons down not as patriots, but
as brazen, traitorous ruffians who dared to deny to
his sacred Majesty George 111. a loyalty which the
Almighty had authorised that glorious pig-
headed German monarch to demand from the
Yankees. Mr. Pope told the assembled company
the story of his career:—
“He had come to Australia 34 years ago. When
he came he was a poor boy. He came to Victoria,
and went on the diggings, where he soon got £lOOO
worth of gold, but, having spent all that, he found
himself a poor young man. (Laughter.) How-
ever, he got some more gold and went to N.Z.,
where he obtained some timber and sent it to
Melbourne, and it was sold on his account, but he
never got the proceeds. He went baok to Mel-
bourne but did not like it, and came round to
Sydney in the steamer Wonga Wonga 30 years
ago. He lost his hat coming up the harbour, and
landed in Sydney without his hat, and without a
penny of his own in the world. (Laugnter and
applause.) A fellow passenger offered him a bed
in hia house at Newtown, but he had a companion,
and resolved that they would walk about the
streets till daylight, and he found his first night’s
repose in Sydney on an old seat in the park oppo-
site St. Mary’s. (Applause.) He had already
learned various occupations, but now thought it
better to try his old business of a draper. In that
capacity he was known as John Pope, ‘L.D.’—
Linen Draper. (Loud laughter and applause.) He
had shipped as that at Liverpool, and landed so at
Sydney. He went down to the establishment of
Farmer, Williams, and Giles, and had an interview
with Mr. Giles, who engaged the hands. Mr. Giles
said, * You are not a draper, are you V He held
his cabbage-tree hat in his hand, and replied that
he was. Mr. Giles told him they did not want any
hands just then, and he replied, ‘I will wait till
you do.’ He went out, and as he did so he picked
up a pin. A young man came after him and
brought him baok to Mr. Giles, who said, ‘ If you
are a draper, you can come on at £3 a week on
Monday morning.’ He accepted the position, and,
to the ladies and gentlemen who had known him
since he held that junior situation, he had to offer
his warmest thanks for his present position.”
There, now I The same dear old familiar story.
How many times have we heard it before? It was
originally told of Lafltte, the Parisian banker,
who, like the political party to whom Mr, Pope and
a lot of his friends belong, always worshipped con-
stituted authority—who was always “ loyal to the
Throne” (as Captain Broomfield says), or, in the
words of Clarke, “ always voted with the Govern-
ment,” Lafi.te rose from obscurity, j>nd his first
start dated from the time h<j “ picked up a pin.’'
He beoaiiie banker to Louis XVIII., but as he “was
loyal to the Throne,’’and “always voted withtho
Government,” he afterwards became banker (and
subsequently executor to) Napoleon, by whom
the King was supplanted. It is wonderful how
many of the great men of the world commence by
picking up unconsidered trifles belonging to other
people. Wilson Barrett, the London actor, “picked
up sixpence,” Parkes picked up sixpence, and
John Pope picked up a piD, despite Dr. Watts:—
“ It is a sin to lift a pin,
Much more,” &c.
Judging from their subsequent careers, ParkeB’
sixpence must have been a crooked (or an alto-
gether bad) one, while Pope’s pin was indubitably
straight.
Mr. Joseph. Chamberlain M.P.
This statesman, whose portrait appears on our
front page, is at the present time the foremost
figure in the arena of English politics. Although
not a Minister, his speeches are of more interest
even than those of the Premier, or the accredited
Liberal leader, Mr. Gladstone himself. Mr. Cham-
berlain is now 49 years of age, having been born
in the end of 1836. In 1854 he entered the service
of a firm of wood-screw makers, of which his lather
was a partnef, at Birmingham. To this part-
nership he subsequently aceeded, but retired from
business in 1874, and devoted himself to political
life. His first bid for membership was at Sheffield,
when he opposed, and was defeated by Mr. Roe-
buck, but two years later he succeeded in
gaining a seat for Birmingham. His chief
legislative success has been the Bankruptcy
Bill, which he passed through the House while
President of the Board of Trade in Mr. Gladstone’s
Ministry. Throughout his career Mr. Chamber-
lain has persistently urged the Disestablishment
of the Church of England, and the application of
the revenue obtained thereby to a comprehensive
system of free education. By doing so he has
made himself hated and feared by the Tories, who
have, however, usually sought to discredit the
speaker rather than to disprove his facts. In the
not unlikely event of the retirement of Mr. Glad-
stone, Mr. Chamberlain will certainly be leader of
the advanced Liberal party, for it is impossible
that its members will commit themselves to the
care of the opportunist Liberal, the Marquis of
Hartington. Nothing seems more likely than
that the present Liberals will be the future
Radicals, just as in their efforts to “dish the
Whigs,” the Tories of yesterday are in effect
Liberals to-day. Last week we showed the
eclipse of Gladstone by Chamberlain, an eclipse
which is daily becoming more plainly discernible.
The situation is almost pathetic in its interest.
Mr. Gladstone is too old and too timorous to lead
the young party, who exceed him as much in the
extremes they are anxious to reach, as they are
superior to him in physical ability. The Grand
Old Man has fought nobly for the cause in his day,
but must soon yield to another who is ready to
carry on the attack with greater vigour. Glad-
stone is the exponent of the departing and Cham-
berlain the leader of the coming generation of re-
formers. As an orator, Mr. Chamberlain is fluent
of language, concise and clear in his argu-
ment, and vigorous in expression. Nearly all the
important issues debated duriDg the recent Eng-
lish election campaign owed their origin to him,
and the coming leaders, Chamberlain and Churc-
hill, rather than Salisbury and Gladstone, have
been the respective champions, As showing the
popularity of air. Chamberlain, it is alleged that a
London schoolmistress made her pupils learn some
of bis speeches by heart. Of course, there was an
outcry at this, and much vigorous newspaper cor-
respondence, but the “lady principal” was wise
in Her generation; she knew that Chamberlain
had enough wealthy admirers to make the ad. a
source of much wealth to herself. Although both
hated and feared by his opponents, Mr. Chamber-
lain, even by them, is admitted to have a deep and
active sympathy with suffering humanity, a sym-
pathy which furnishes the motive of his political
actions.
Extrac t from a long letter received by a
North Queenslander, now In Sydney Coming
up from the Flinders I had a very hard time of it on
account ef the drought, and lost a gGod many
house, but I managed to get on a patch of green
grass at , where I spelled for a week, and
found a game of black-gin stealing in progress (to
vary the monotony of the drought, I suppose, as
there was nothing: else to be dor e). ——, of one
station, steals the gin of his neighbour , and
the latter ‘shakes’ her back Sg Id. Then she is
recovered by the first-named individual, and now
she is under lock and key at nights. One would
think she would be a charmer after all that
trouble, but she is as ugly as a German baboon.
Both these shakesta are married men, and J.’sP.,
but the wives are away from home just now.
There will be some hair-tearing when they come
back. At each station I passs I on my travels
there is a regular harem of young and middle-
aged gins kept, and thought more of than white
women. Wonderful country thit North Kennedy.”
Thus does civilisation majestically stalk along in
the torrid North.
When Judges fall out honest men some-
times aet out. This happened J tely at Inveroar-
gili, N.Z, where Mr. Michael Crow had been in-
carcerated without trial by DWrict Judge Ward
for alleged fraudulent insolve; ey. Some time
ago the same Judge sent another bankrupt before
Resident Magistrate M'Cullceh 1 r prosecution on
a like charge. The RM. dismis d the case on the
ground that a debtor could not be prosecuted on
evidence given by himself. This warmed old
Ward up “some,” and he very soon hauled the
R.M. rather roughly over the coals for it. Mao,
however, was game to the b okbone, and next
time he got perched on the Berj. 'a he crowed back
defiantly in reply. Then an ’her Crow turned
up. This was Michael, i ichael had filed
his little deficiency, and was hopping his
way through the Insolvency Court all right
when Judge Ward, alleging something ia his
schedule, sent him to gaol for t .res months with-
out troubling the magistrate in the matter—a
clean ease of hitting two birds, Crow and Mac,
with one stone. But Crow was not so easily
roosted, The rookery was roured, and flew to his
assistance with one accord. A writ of habeas
corpus was applied for before a Supreme Court
Judge, who decided that the action of the District
Judge was illegal. The late incarcerated Crow ia
consequently once more a trie bird, and spent
Christmas in the family nest, surroundod by all
the little squabs. And ail the little chicks said,
“ Caw, caw, caw I District Judge Ward, caw, caw,
caw,” between every bill-fui of the Christmas
pudding.
A Northern reader hailing from Mackay
(Queensland), writes:—“ln your issue of Novem-
ber 31, page 10, I notice a paragraph containing
lines, ‘My last note,’ written, so you say, by
‘ some cheerful soul evidently contemplating
suicide ’ If lam not in error, the cheerful soul
suicided about 15 years ago in South Australia,
and an account of his death appeared in the
S A. Register of March 31, and in his pocket were
these lines:
“ ‘ From this world, so worn and weary,,
From this inn a broken guest,
From its chambers, blar k, unoheery,
I depart, I hope to rest.
“ ‘ I’m no ties of friendship leaving,
No, not e’en a mistress dear;
There’s not one that I’m bereaving—
All alone I linger here.’
“ The next three verses run nearly as you give
them.—‘Nearly peering through the portal,’and
so on; but, insofar as they have been altered, the
suicide’s reputation has suffered. He was named
John Clark, and his body was found on the sand-
hills near the Pilot Station, Adelaide, and beside it
a bottle half full of laudanum, a glass, and a red
pipe. Besides the lines I have mentioned, he left
on paper sundry reflections in this wise:— ‘ I was
about to say friendship, but I remembered I never
had any friends but when I had money, so I think
the alteration is just, , , . as for my own i
other slde * that 18 strictly my
97 rn ? da . r ! 2* any gentleman has anything to
layabout that, I advise him to keep his breath to
cool his own chestnuts. . . . Suppose the jury
e .y./nust find me sane. Consecrated
\, bbisb ‘ Wherever God Is (and where
is He not?) is consecrated ground. Do bury me
+ h «e. Let the sea breeze blow over me, and don't
■ft? 1 . me , ln amongst a parcel of shopkeepers and
dissenters in some fcetid cemetery.’ ”
the annual meeting of the committee
?n D t^A^ xan * d u ra (Vic.) School of Arts, Mr. Jeffers
adoption of the balance-sheets
else in the colony could a
similar body be found able to make suoh hand—
-B°“e yearly donations to oharities and institutions
as the Alexandra Amateur Dramatic Club ? ,I ven-
ture to say in no other township in the colony#
The local olub possessed talent whioh could not be
equalled outside of Melbourne.” We quite be-
lieve this. Indeed, in some things the talents
possessed by the Alexandra amateurs could not bo
excelled in the colony—including Melbourne—
by old professionals. The thorough manner
with which these reckless Bohemians would seize
all the telling points in “ Box and Cox ” or “ The
Happy Man” showed the possession of talents of
a kind which deserved a wider field of aotion than
was obtainable in a public-house barn, with a
truss of hay covered by a horse-cloth for a bridal
bed and three farm labourers armed with hoes for
a guard of honour. And the way too they took
possession of the bar when the play was over till
notbing but sarsaparilla and tonic water remained
on the premises, showed that their accomplish-
ments were not confined to histrionism but
branched out in various directions. Still, while we
cannot but admire the high position secured by the
Alexandra stage—it was mostly in a loft—we think
that theatricals in Sandhurst occupied almost
as high a plane. It makes us young again to think
of the nights when, employed as ticket-taker, we
passed in most of our friends on 1.0.U.8 (still in
our possession), and then slipped into the orches-
tra to manipulate the cymbals and triangle. Be-
fore us in the circle were all Bendigo’s men of
“ light and leading,” with the creme of Eaglehawk,
Golden Square, Dead Dog Gully, and Jackass
Flat. There were to be seen the queens of Sand-
hurst society making the air musical with the
piquant badinage and racy raillery in whioh they
revelled lang syne while conveying the “old
man’s ” dinner to the claim or taking a turn at
the windlass. And on the stage were either a band
of minstrels whose united mouths would encom-
pass an iceberg or a batch of amateurs—cadets >
the first families—whose virulent hostility towards
the English language found vent in soorn like
this:—
First Amateur: “Air you the Dook ?”
Second A.: “I ham the Dook.”
First A. (fiercely): Koward l Were is my darter?”
Second A. (defiantly): "Minyon. The dams’!
you calls yer chee-i-ld no longer fears yer onnat’-
ralhenmity. (Aside) ’O w can I dissemble ? (Aloud)
My kerridge waits— adoo."
Yes. Take them all round, we would baok the
Bendigo amateurs against those of. Alexandra.
There may be some little points in the “heavy
father”and“outraged female” lines where the
Alexandra lads have a slight advantage, but, for
allround capacity, combined with fierce icono-
clastn, give us the Bendigo boys.
No family should be without it, no remedy
is more reliable, none more infallible than Wolfe's
Schnapps.
The Assyrian came down like a wolf on the fold.
And his masculine form was a treat to behold,
For at Summerfield’s shop he’d been fitted so well.
That he looked a superlative, heart-breaking
swell.*
MaoLaughlin’s Bodega, 306 George-street
near Hunter-street. Wines from the best vine*
yards of Australia—by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Cold Luncheons, &c.*
“ I have used Ayeb’s Pills in numberless
instances as recommended by you, and have never
known them to fail to accomplish thedesired result.
We constantly keep them on hand at our home,
and prize them as a plesant, safe, and reliable
family medicine. For Dyspepsia they are invalu-
able. J. T. Hayes, Mexia, Texas, June 17,1883.”
The numberless appeals to the eye, ear,
and understanding, in business, recreation, and
social circles, are not always seen, heard, or under-
stood, and to both the former and latter we find
several leading houses continually introducing
novelties from all parts of the world. In no one
line of business do you find a larger choice in
china, glass, and earthenware, than at the old-
established shops or Bray Brothers, 403 and 404
George-street, near King-street.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps would not have stood a teat
of actual trial for half a century were it not an
excellent spirit.
BEALE & COMPANY
City Show Booms,
386 and 612 GEORGE STREET,
13 CENTRAL MARKETS,
151 OXFORD STREET
AGENTS and TRAVELLERS in EVERT
COUNTRY TOWN.
Address Letters of Inquiry—
-371a Pitt-street, Sydney.
THE LATE3T TRIUMPH of SEWING MACHINI
M ECHANJ.CS,
The “BEALE”
HIGH-ARM
PATENT SEWING MACHINES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
lerthiim Sewing machine,
BEALE.
The “ Hapsbnrg” Pianos.
SOLE IMPORTERS,
BEALE ABB COMPANY.
THE “HAYDN” ORGANS
AND
HARMONIUMS.
Sole Importers
BEALE AS3DJCOMPANY.
FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
and
FULL INFORMATION,
Address
ANY LOCAL AGENT OR TRAVELLER;
or,
BEALE & COMPANY
Sydney.


N
mH■A T B 1 80, T AL<
JL Under the management •*« _ „
Messrs. 'Wiluamson, cuknhp. and MDBdaoyß.
Leasee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Goo. L. Goodman.
EVERY EVENING, »t a quartertoB_
THE MOST GORGKuUS PaN I OM ME
EVERPEODUCKD IN SYDNEY.
An Entirely New Ver. i m of the O.i Fairy it >ry,
CINDERELLA.
HER SISTERS. HER 80KR0We,
HER LITTLE GLASS SLIPPER;
or,
THE FAIRY GODMOTHER
who wouldn't let
THE BAD STEP-FATHER.
Admission : Drtss Clrolc. 53.; 8t&lls, 33 ; Family
for all parts of the house at East way’s
Hotel. Box plan open at the Theatre daily from
10 till 5. No Free List.
B W OPERA HOUSE.
m - TJnder the Leaaeefchip and Management
Messrs. E. MAJERONI and W. J. WILSON.
LAST NIGHT BUT ONE
of
MAJERONI & WILSON'S D RAMATICCOMPANY
in
ACROSS THE CONTINENT
ACROSS THE CONTINENT.
Grand Reception of JOHN L. HALL
KNOCK-ME-EOWN JOHNNY.
On SATURDAY will be produced with
NEW BCSNERY and
MEOHaNICAT, EFFECTS
The Great. Sersatioa Drama
QUEEN’S EVIDENCE.
Prices as usual. Box plan at Nicholson’s Music
Warehouse, 325 George-strcef. Day tickets at
Cole’s Book Arcade, Gtorye-street.
The Olympic
(late Old Masonic Hail. York-street).
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. M. L. Raphael.
Stage Manager .. .. Mr. D’Arey tttanfi Id
TO-NIGHT and Every Evening,
The highly successful Drur/ Lane Chrktmas
Pantomime,
MOTHER GOOSE
MOTHER GOO*E
MOTHER GOOSE
AND THE ENCHANTED BEAUTY,
received every evening with every dem nest ration
of aporoval, and with th« greatest en huslasna.
OUR ORCHESTRA IS THE RE«»T,
OUR 003CUMBS THE «0 T C >STLY,
OUR HABk»EQ(JIN *DS IHE FUNNIEST,
and
OUR THEATRE THE COOLEST.
Million Prices—Stal e,3s ; Parquette, 2u: Gallery,
ONE SHILLING. A few re'erved scats at Nichol-
son's, 4s. Box plan now open.
H. TREVORa-H, Business Manager.
A 0 A D B M Y OF MUSIC.
A Pole Proprietor and Manager.. F. B. His rocks.
THE RESORT OF FAMILY PARTIES.
All parts o f the h: use well represented.
HIbCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and only Spt c Ality Union.
TO-NIGHT, and Every Evening, the
BLACK PANTOMIME. HAbLEQOTN.
BLACK” HIDE” SUSAN and her PLaIN BILL.
Entirely New First Part, New Sours Refr irs,
Jokes, Anecdotes, &e., and the Greatest Mu st.el
First Part Finaie ever produced.
ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
George-street, Haymarket.
and Director Mr. Frank Smith.
TO-NIGYT. TO-NIGHT.
The Home of Minstrelsy and Mirth.
The Popular and Fasbimable Resort.
IMMENSE SUCCESS. IMMENSE SUCCESS,
of the Alhambra Variety and Speciality Union in
their Refined Entertainment,
KING COCKATOO
' ' KING COCKY'OO
KING COCKATOO,
or
THE ENCHANTED ELEPHANT
THE ENCHANTED ELEPHANT.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 2s; stalls, la;
balcony. Is.
Artists of acknowledge! ability disengaged,
pleaso communicate with Mr. Frank Sm'tn.
mHE
£csaee
M
ADAME
WOODY EAR’S
GRKA-T LONDON K^UESQUIIUCULUM.
LIST THREE NIGHTS
Last THRES NIGHTS
of
THIS GREAT SHOW.
SATURDAY AFTERNOON, JANUARY 16tb,
at J 2.30,.
LAST GRAND MATINEE,
SPECIAL PROGRAMME FOR CHILDREN.
Children will be admitted to Pit, 61., Pit, 6d.;
Stills, lv; Circle, la. 6d.
COUNTRY TOUR.
COMING BY CHARTERED TRAINS.
PENRITH —Tuerday, January 19 b.
BSKBANK— Wednewlay January 20Lb.
WAuLERA VANG—.Thursday, J.nuary Slat.
BATdUR 'T—Fricayaad Satu dry, Jan. 22 and 23.
ROBT. LOVE, Agent.
IYNCH FAMILY BELLRINGERS
} 10.-gaul&ed IS67i
Manager Harry Lynch.
Wollongong—l her a.. Frid , and Sat., 14.15,16 Jan.
Bulli— Monday, 18 h J*n.
C-ixton— Tuesday, 19th J^n.
Burrawang. M jps Vale, Mlttagong, Pioton, Cam-
den. Campbelltown. Liverpool to toliow, arriving
in Sydney, 2nd Febiuary.
NOTICE.
To the thief or thieves who have been taking my
papers for the last month.
GIVE me your addrts3, and I will pay a
quarter's subscription for you.
WILLIAM POOLE,
Ballarie Sla’ion.
Ist January, 1586.
30
A. SHANKS & SON’S
Department of Pubiio Works,
Sydney, January 13,1&6.
TRNDKE3 tor PUBLIC WORKB and SUP-
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Govebnmbst Gazbtts, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
iuties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken Into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly compiled
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
il»sur« ol Wofke ana Supplies
Dates to wMofc
Tenders can be
received [at
this office.
Duplication ef G. a. Ra'lway,
i roin Gouiburn to Joppa J unc-
tion
Construction of Railway from
Tenteifleidto Queensland Bor-
der „ .
Supply of Ship Plates, Harbours
and Rivers Department
Erection of Station Buildings,
at 24 miles 28 chains, Illawarra
Supply of Duplex Air Com-
pressor, Railway Department
Bricklayers’ Work, Colonial
Architect’s Department, dur-
ing 1886
Tuesday.
January 19.
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of 4th section Ilia- I
warra Kailway
Additions, &e., Police Barracks,
Walgett
Erection of Dwarf Wall and
Iron Palisading, Court-house,
Darlinghurst
Erection of Station Buildings,
&c., atTenterfleld, G.N. Kail-
Erection of Station Buildings,
«fec., at Brawlin, Cootamundra
to Gundagai Kailway
Construction of Wharf at Wan-
chope, Hastings River
Wednesday,
January 27,
at 11 o’oiocK.
Contract No. 2 Bar won River
Bridge at Brewarrina
Construction of Tramway, New
castle to Wallsend and JPlatts-
burg
Purchase of Old Boiler, Dredge
Buckets, &c., Fitzroy Dock
Building Stage, Parramatta
Griol, during 1886
Tuesday,
February 2, 1866.
Erection of Gallery, Court-
house, Wilcaania
Tuesday,
February 9.
JACOB GARRARD.
ARTIFICIALTEETH
LETE SFT
c \ LOty, , 1
w m -$m
O• : •
MARSH At 1BPC:
DENTISTS
133 ELI ZABETH ST
\v>
JPOK PRIVATE SALE.
BUILDING*
ALLOTMENTS,
IN THE RAPIDLY-RISING
ERINA TOWNSHIP,
60SF0R0.
BOYD AND KING
Are instructed to sell the above property, admir-
ably suited for persons wishing *o s;ttle in a new
and rising district where the soil is capable of pro-
ducing the? largest crops in the colonies. Erina
Township is immediately adjacent to the Goaford
Model Farms, on which a numerous population has
already settled, and at the public school of which,
in the centre of the property, over 60 scholars
are in daily attendance.
WATER FRONTAGES.
GARDEN PLOTi.
BUSINESS SITES.
MAIN ROAD ALLOTMENTS.
Special arrangements are made for inspection.
Send for plans and pamphlets.
BOYD and KIND,
AUCTIONEERS,
96 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PRANKS ~
GHRISTMAS GARDS
AND
CHRISTMAS SATIN ART PRINTB.
all stationers.
Sole Agents, ROBERT JOLLEY & CO.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
rsiHK AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LJV K STOCK
T INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital £lOO,OOO.
Head Office : Melbourne.
Viotorian Directors .--Thomas Learmontb, Fso.,
Chairman; John L. Dow. Isq., M.L.A.; J. r
Levien, Esq., M.L.A.
Horses, Cittle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs insured
against death.
Marine Risks accepted on Live Stock (covering
mortality); also on Merchandise and Hull*.
New South Wales Branch : 171 Ca6tlertagb-street.
H. S. BADGERY, Managing Director.
H. M. HAMILTON, Manager.
CURATIVE
ELECTRICITY.
HEALTH WITHOUT MEDICINE.
Is obtained speedily and permanently by adopting
the safe and never- failing remedy of the new mode
of treatment by Electricity, as supplied to the
human system by wearing the MAGNETIOAt.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO S genuine ELEC-
TIUC BELT, a restorer of Impaired vitality a n ,i
failing health. It is an unvarying success in the
cure and alleviation of Rheumatism, Inaigestiorj,
Lumbago, Boiatica, Paralysis, Epilepsy, Const! pal
tion, Nervous Debility, and the numerons ailment*
consequent upon living in a semi-tropical climate
and tno baneful effects of malaria, which alone
are caused by the deficiency or abstraction from
the body of the ali-pervading element of life,
electricity. This mode of treatment is by far the
most perfect and successful method yet discovered
(combined with perfect safety) for supplying to the
•body the continuous or imperceptible current of
electricity, without the aid of ohain bands or use
of acid, thus giving no inconvenience to the
wearer. They are charged ready for use, and re.
tain their full power for a considerable period,
But to avoid any disappointment by their possible
less of electrio power, and to keep the appliances
up to their original strength, we undertake to re-
charge any of our appliances at the expiration of
twelve months, free of cost. One of the special
features of this treatment Is the electric corset,
which Is unsurpassed by its curative properties in
all female complaints, and is of superior shape and
manufacture. Price, 10a. and 15s.
GENT’S ELECTRIC BELTS are manufactured
expressly for tropical clim»tes, of superior mate-
rial, in the shape of a riding belt, and are very
durable. Price, 155.; special power, 30s. In order,
ing size of waist outside first garment is required,
If mailed, 2s. extra. Lung Invigorators for the
successful treatment of all lung complaints,
hitherto without the domain of Electrio Agency,
price 20a. All who have a tendency to weak luDgg
should adopt this treatment before it is too late,
The appliances are adapted for local as well as con.
Rtltutional treatment in the form of Knee Caps,
7s. 6d. each ; Spine Bands, 10». Insoles—which are
invaluable for cold feet, defective circulation,
rheumatism—4s. 6d. per pair. Send size of hoot,
or paper pattern of inside ; postage, Is. 04. extra.
The public are warned against worthless lmita.
tions of our goods, as the great success attending
the adoption of this mode of treatment has in-
duced other people to attempt, by so-called cau-
tions and notices, to mislead the public. Therefore
be careful to see that all goods are marked
“ Magnetical Electrio Appliance Co., London and
Sydney.” All correspondence treated with the
greatest dispatch. Cheques and P.O. Orders to
be made payable to
E. S. NEILD & CO.,
158 Pitt-street,
SOLE PROPRIETORS FOR AUSTRALIA.
GOULET CHAMPAGNE.
OF UNRIVALLED PURITY AND
EXCELLENCE.
Thus characterised by one of the highest mediesi
authorities“ Its qualities are of a very high
order; It possesses a charming hoquet, fruity and
pronounced; essentially a dry wine without attenu-
ation, and free from acidity; full and crisp."
KNAPP & ELLIS,
6 Bridge Street, Sydney,
Agents for New South Wales,
ss
Oa
30
O,
%
o
o
<x
4^
MU
4
CO
&
MUNZEH
.fVunxiSSEURS DE O M L
Border
if
)B
&
&
&
O'
0
»
k*/k'/&?+* JtMfcVfe*. A* A*/AVa» a* a*
wt-
<#
?Stv
msmm.
3URY.BUXTON&C 5
ENGUSHALES
Burton-on-Trent.
soyvJ'
as
OHNfc
Him, MAT & CO.’S Win aii Stirii Stores and Agencies,
CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
London Agents: Messrs. Arthuk Allt & Co.. Wormwood Chambers, Wormwood-street, E.O.
Horizontal and Vertical Engines and Boilers; Direct-acting Pumps ;
Shanks’ celebrated Hoisting Engines, Hand and Steam Cranes and Winehes,
Marine Engines and Boilers, Patent Lawn Mowers and Garden Boilers,
CAR (3 E STOCKS. UNEQUALLED EXCELLENCE, LOWEST PRICES.
B. O. WHITE!
fit Plft-straat,
Sydney


SUNDRY SHOWS.
TubaTM ROTAx.-” Cinderella " P. 8
qpjhA Housa—“ Ad - osB the Continent ”
ALHiMlsai.—“ £ing Cockatoo ”
tliiYMi’io- 4 'Wtoiher Godse” ........ *.
academy or Music.—Federal Minstrels....
Pecmobe Park— Woodyear’s Circus...
The pant, at the Sydney O-limb-io
manage! to keep strongly on its legs, possibly
Htfcause it has many of those shapely limbs to
sustain It. StraDge that pants, usually succeed in
inverse ratio lo the lengths of tile pants worn!
Some new scenery relieves much 6f the heaio-
ninking terror which the former alleged scenes
was calculated to inspire, and Whyte-Tye is con-
stantly “on the job” with new locals, some of
which, by the way, are exceedingly sultry.
* * *
Miss Osborn© doe 3 not Ida vooal light un-
der a buihel, and even the gallery gamina-not
generally connoisseurs of music, yell for an
“ angoore.” Fanny Sirony improves as she per-
forms better, and this latter contingency happens
with every representation. On Monday night,
While Emily Fox was singing, “lamso shy," she
suddenly discovered that bashfulness was not the
ofltf thing that troubled her, for, with a we-shall-
aii-meet in-Heaven expression, she incontinently
fainted to a qttdsi-orcbt stral accompaniment of
sympathetic sobs from every part of the house.
We have sometimes ventured to hint that Emily
was too prodigal of her imiles, and alleged that
it was not natural for a lady to put on that
heavenly expression when she fainted. Now,
when she subsides involuntaiily, we have seen
that it is natural —for Mies Emily if ox.
* * *
One of the most comic scenes in the entire
pant, is the appearance of the ancient Briton
in the procession of the Centuries. She comes
slowly on clad in her long hair, a leopard-skin
ninafore, and two or three other thiDgs, but the
look of deep*soated and settled melancholy which
Swells Within her face makes the inquisitive
Observer to wondef whether.. she represents
Beadicea “ bleeding from the Roman rods, or
Whether Someone has stolen her woad-box (the
rouge-pot of the ancient tiritons), or, lastly,
Whether she has just heard that Lloyd, M L.A., is
« Honorable within the Colony. There is also
anothet very oomic scene when a lot of the
gj-amtitia persona go racing across before the foot-
lights; it reminded us of a Are in a girls boarding-
sohooi to she So many girls ramping around in
short white garments;
. » *
As the show is now run, the business Is
brisk and the brightness of the lines atone for the
dulnessof the scenery. Rivers Allpress, of the
Exquisitely Beautiiul hair, e-Luoy-dates the
musioal part with becoming intensity.
« * *
“Mother Goose” is to give place on the
23rd to—well, you'd never guess, if you have not
heard It is not a circus, a gift-show, George
Darrell’s plays, a glove fight, nor a Salvation
Army jubilee. No. “ it” is none ot these, but it is
-hold your breath, and have one more with a
little less water in it before we tell you—an Opera
company 1 Leon Caron is the organising genim ,
and he hopes to get a good team together by tin
date nominated. With such Caron-aid the thing
must necessarily be big-gun wall.
** * #
The Sydney Opera House directorate ha?
been taught a severe lesson by endeavouring to
inUiot“Aerossthe Continent” on its frequenters
Monday night’s attendance proved the lallacy of
dfisirf p#oole with nonsecsei There were not
more than 20 persons in the circle.
• A *
“Across the Continent ” is a piece abound-
in battle, murder, and sudden death. There are
numbers of “situations” in the play. “Acrots
the Continent, ” it d.tc ibt d b?. m ° Q r , l be r ,®
&S a piece worth seeing. It is like that. But. it i
ttPiece whffeh a blind man could also eDjoy.
«iuch shooting and shouting and exottetr.e. t
IhnV vt tirtuis the blind man would wish that he
werVdeaLor the actors dumb. Edison should se->
this production. It Would present to him .a phase
in telegraphic advancement with which he is so far
unacquainted. The telegraph station is to .be
attached by Indians, who, after cutting the wire,
judiciously dear out and allow the operator to
dispatch a message for a tr in ioaded with troops
to return to h s assistance. The train arrives
within thrtb minutes of the dispatch of the wire -
a rate Of speed which transmission and reply have
not yet attained in this oountry.
* * *
BUt it is the manner of sending thetele-
rram wbioh would double Edison up as eompletely
Saifhe had been hit in the chest with a paving-
Sone When the operator discovers the wire has
been eut be darts out with the instrument in his
hand, planks it on the head of an old cement bar-
rel, and, without any batteries to the machine, he
clicks at the rate of a thousand words a minute
hi meSsie for the troops. There are about six
troops and seven or eight redskins, and a A® lo ®
and bloody fray takes place. Each man as he iis
shot, scalped, or otherwise murdered, gets up and
leaves the stage to return in a moment from
anotner quarter of the battlefield in time for a
second round. This encounter is conducted under
Queensberry rules, four rounds and a draw. Draw
the curtain. # „
We oannot, with justice to the performers,
make special mention of any. When the Piece
produced is so w retchedly opposed to the possi-
bilities and so insultingly contrary to common-
sense dictates we cannot asaoiiate the names of
Hall Rodney, Baker, Meteaife, Power, and Gerald
with a failure. For the like reason, we reiraia
from reviewing th. performance of Miaaes Eoigbt
aadGwynne. ® « e #
This won’t do! We can’t have these im-
ported lor filings fooling with the ballet ginswho
have hitherto been tue legitimate mash for
our own native-born and brei drapers assistants
and’Government clerks. Last Friday eight Lord
Bertie (one of Caring ton s aides-de-camp) and two
other attaches, one in the broken-mouthed stage,
went to the Theatre Royal, whr re they were
salaamed to by such members of the trium-
virate” as had the honour to be present, and
stared at by Buch among the audience as were ac-
quainted with the identity of the owners of the
eve-glasses. During the performance the genial
Jack Wallace conducted the great men behind the
scenes. where, strange to say, they appeared quite
at home, and made themselves, especially the
venerable, excessively agreeable to the paint and
padding. * * * *
Upon entering the Sydney Gaiety Theatre,
on Monday, we discovered suddenly that we were
not alone in the house, and as we glanoed upward
to discover if the g' ds were propitious one, or
saveral of them— expectorated in the vicinity of
our eagle eye. This delicate attention proved to
us that we were a marked man.
. * »
The “Green Lanes of England” was the
item for the evening, and juoging by its enthusi-
astic reception, it is fair to iaf, r that its run will
be a prcfitablo ons to the management. A* the
uif ca has been played in Australia several tunqi
before it is not neoesstry to uofoiu the details of
thp business. The plot is gs long as an attorney’s
bill of ftenis, and a* comprehensive as a Wesleyan
parson’s prayer. It is a pleasing compound of
Digamy and burglary, villainy and virtue,
treachery and terruth, mother’s love and murder,
but looks much less ** creepy ’ on paper than
when shown on the mirror of life. As Margaret
Wheatstone, the innocent maideD, Miss Kemble
was borne on the sympathetic tide of auditorial
favour, and her lightest line woke their plaudits.
The Nelly of Miss Hetty Sherwood was a clever
Serfortaance. She was an “ off the stage child.
[r. Dampier, as GfentlQman George, was a charac-
ter of the virtuously vicious,Ascription which is
never met in life, and not often on the Stage. His
battle between the longing to expose Flint And his
partner in the robbery from old Wheatstones
desk and his anxiety to get a drink of gin was
thoroughly appreciated by the audience, and it is
not improbable that, on his next appearanc -, a
flask of the fluid may be lowered to him from the
gallery. On h's attempt to surprise the robbers,
Who had gOt in by the back window, the loud
shoiits of. ‘'Sound this way, George,” “Hey, here
they are,” fully attested his artistic ability.
* * ♦
Boothman and Stark, as a pair of the vilest
of villains, were hissed to their hearts’ content, and
the delight of the audience was fully expressed in
the shouts from aloft of “ Pmg hi®, Selby, Put
the arm-look on him, Jones,” “ Pass him over this
way, Leston.” It is probable that ia front of the
footdgbts more than once during the evening Bill
and Flint would have spent an excessively bad ten
minutes. This tribute to the fidelity of their per-
formance was not undeserved. The Martin Wheat-
stone of Mr. Edmund Holloway was a finished per-
formance, and his pathos was pathetio throughout.
Stonehara s Frank Selby was the finest effort we
have yet had from him. Harry Leston made the
most, the very most, of a small part-Gustavus
Jones—the only Jones, a tailor. Miss Dampier
Smiles too much and too often, otherwise
Katherine Bussell died too early in the piece.
She was MartbaFiinL £be EHould have been re-
generated as same one else.
DAN’S PAPER-CUTTER.
"An Indian potentate, on a visit to Lord Dufferin, saw the Viceroy cutting his
newspapers. Asking for the ivory knitfe, the prince promised to bring snother in re-
turn. He came back in a few days with a young elephant, whose tusks had been
shaped and sharpened The snimal, which had been carefully trained in secretarial
work, was brought into Lord Dufferin's library, when it immedately began picking
up newspaper, with its trunk, and, after cutting them, laid them, laind them carefully in a pile on
the carpet."
OUR OWN P.M.G., THE HON. DAN. O'CONNOR, EXPECTS DAILY A SIMILAR
LITTLE COMPLIMENTARY PRESENTATION BY THE HIBERNIAN
SOCIETY. WE SUGGEST SOMETHING LIKE THE ABOVE-AN EDU-
CATED PIG TO OPEN THE DEAD LETTERS.
Tbe Federals continue their vary miicih
diversified Christmas programme at the Sydney
Academy of Music. And to keep up the musical
reputation of the house, the management have
put cn “ Der Deuitcher Jubilee Concert as a
finale to the first part, wherein are introduced
such musical instruments as never were seen
before, aad never will be again. Herr Stomach-
ache, as the solo trombonist, has an instru-
ment which must make his —to manipu-
late. There is one defect on the part of the
audience, however, which discounts tha enjoy-
ment of much of the business of the Academy,—
the applause is always very much too previous. It
is a wonder that the audience is so short-sighted,
for it is half tho joy of one of Amery's songs to
hear him climb to the highest pea<? iu the range of
melody and sit straddle-iegs across it. Tins bucolic
stupidity of prematurely applauding is confined
to an energetic few, but. it spoils the pleasure of
the many.
* * *■
“Plain Bill and Black- 4 Hide’ Susan” is
strong enough on Its lower limbs to run for a
month. It is interspersed with songs, of which
“ Once or T wica ”is a local ditty, and ‘Wait till
we spit on our hands,” a ballad whose pathos
occasionally dives fathoms deep into the regions
of the sublime. A boy in white raimeDt, who
looks an inverted head of celery, dances a good
hornpipe, and the busine s all through is just
about tho antipodes of all that is rational, conven-
tional, or commonplace.
* * *
Calloo! Callay! We have done it! What?
Written three notices of tho Minstrels without
once alluding to Sam Keemm’o phenomenal and
lodging-house-keeper -ap palling mouth.
*« » *
At the Sydney Alhambra, Frank Smith,
whose face reflects the gleaming glory of the har-
vest moon, or something red, continues to stand
at the door and. smile on his patients—patrons, we
mean. Frank is patient iu well doing— so are
many more of ue, Barrington, Ryan, Shipp, and
Farley are in good form, and their nightly ctf uta
to amuse, and the wjsfc with which they enterlnto
the fun they enjoy, remiads us of hothlng so
forcibly 88 of the time when we " D f 6 ,s t n
quartette to eat a stolen apple. It was such fun to
eat it,- S'ach Joy to divide, aud such consolation to
know that night brought the game share of tribu
lation to them as to us. It was a green anple,
plucked too early. An old apple, likeL2 Auidmbra
is always safe to take,' medicinally. The Alhambra
jokes are not of th<3 newest order.
♦* # #
The Cottiers preseuted a good bill ofl
Saturday and Monday nights. The hotls® w »s fufi.
and the doorkeepers beamed blandly upon ns ts
we entered. The pantomime, which was preceded
by thSir uwual variety entertainment an<t tuc*
ceeded by the now popular melody of „
the Queen,” wad prsduetive of the euscomary
collar-bursting bilaritti The Gettiers, lJho their
scenic artists, draw well.
The second of Rainford’s Chowder Say
Sunday concerts was well attended, acd the vo-
calists, with the assistance of AUpres3 band,
warbled choicest music for the delectation ot
visitors to this classic retreat.
*** * _ ,
Herr Kuster’a concert at the Sydney
Opera House on Sunday evening was well at-
tended. These muei3al breaebes of the fourth
commandment are becoming Increasingly popular.
* «■ *
Woodyear’s Eleotrio Equisquiriculum (cir-
cus, you know) played twice on Saturday to good
business. On Friday night the wipd, which
bloweth where it listeth, had listed to li t several
sectiors of canvas outof the tent* which presented
the appearance of a gigantic crinoline struck by
an excited lightning flash. The damage was re-
paired in time lor the next performance.
r * * *
Punctually at 8 p.m. a number of Cniua-
men entered the ring’ on horseback. 1 his was the
grand Chinese entry. They rode better th*n any
other Celestial equestrians we have Put ?
beggar on horseback, and eny bootmaaer w
Ihv the market prico wbat dietanco
Chinamatfonhorsehaokgenerally goes about feu.
ffipit After the horse has decided to discara nru.
fbrtpottlS™ htt jour M yi»per(orm»d town.*
the home'of the white-winged arsge 8. tne c m
elusion of the journey and the conclusion of th.
o mfnseian are depsu lent entirely on the origin
of the B hor Q B e are Ma?cus Sebastian U und'»u*»te^
+ ntnr nerformer of the bhoWi his act or tr»
pe ze-balaocing being the most£the°clrluf hi.
tVio hiil He swings square acro.-sthe ciriuj, u«
feet borne by the bar, and his hands gras plug th»
u We have been practising trapse
ESSm 'at tome on «J “KSe'oll “w,’
SlS.^d%^ or »oV&Sa»*.;W in
cabinetmaker is not on speaking terms with us.
Madame Leoni would be au
a hank cashier’s department. She can ai way^
is ill SSSSnSSSS^A^
K°f“ l.“h:o,'iawivSos“»y^nt'™“" r
SSKSSdiS iSHftK? "nAfflnanceto w».ol
W 8 have been habituated. +
Crook andHetbert do a good equestrian
act, and the varied sawdust and spangled artist*,
trick ponies, and clowns Jill the cm.
The circus will shortly leave for Victoria,
™hirhor Twe the genial ad vance-a gent lor
M iflame Wood's ear, has already gone. This is
where the proprietress scares a point ever? time-
ghe ig always preceded by hove.
Oriental Gold,
Great Sacrifice !
Immense Reduction!
THE
ORIENTAL (OLD CO.
B
EG to draw attention to the REDUCED
PRICES of their
IMW Jnilltrj!
MOO
«5 0 0
M H>
« 9
0
£4 15 9
OBSERVE PRICE LIST BELOW.
Ladies’ Handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, Ms, lit.
17s 6d, and 20s each
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 4s and Ba per pair
Ladies’ Choice Neoklets, 6s each
Ladles’ Choice Necklets, beat American Plate, 20*
Ladies’ Elegant Dangles, 4s, 6s, and 10s per pair
Choice Lockets, 5s eac%
Handsome Gem Rings, 4S sod 8s 6d each
Wedding and Keeper Rings, *» Gold, 7« 6d
each
Ladles’ Handsome Lockets, 10s each
Ladies’ Elegant Crosses, 4s, ss, and 6s each
Ladies’ Brooch and Earring Sets, from 5s to 16ff
Thimbles, warranted Sterling Silver, 3s 6d each
Gents’ O. <3. Watches, Hunting, Open-Paged
Crystal Glass, and patent Keyless, 30s each,
warranted 3 years
Ladies’ (same as above.)
par* These watches are made epoetaily to our
order, and stamped with our trad*? mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and }«w®U*d
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, In bunting or open
faced crystal glasses .. .. -
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
jewelled, and compensation balance ..
Rotherham’s celebrated English Patent
Levers
Ditto ditto, compensation balance
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses..
Ditto ditto, compensation balance..
A written warr&ntry for threa years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with eaeh watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph, £6 0
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the high**!
grade . J 6 ® 0
Ditto, in hunting oases, compensated and
full jewelled, with Oriental Gold Cmaio
and Lockst .. ■■ ••* •• 10 0
We import our watches dir eel from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the edvantaga
of all the saving thus effected about 35 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men's profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £6 watches would out
cost less than £8 to £lO.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, Is
eaeh. . . ~
Gent’s Oriental Gold Ring*, half round buckle
flat broad buckle, engraved, good luek rings
2s 8d each.
Gent’s richly chased engraved and plain Solitaire
and r.tnk Suites, 3s, 4s, 6s, and 6s 6d per set.
flame as above, only hsut sets, Is Bd, 3s, and 3s per
Bes? 6 American Patent fepring SoLLOre Suites,
5s per set.
Gent’s elegant Seals, 4s each.
Gent’s Elegant Compasses, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alberta. 6 > each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold handsome Scarf Pins. Is.
6d, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s, 3s 6d, 4s, 4. 6d, s*. and 5s «d eao
Very best American Pencil Coses, 2, tW each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Match Boxes, 4s eav ti.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Sovereign Purses, 4s each.
Richly engraved Bracelets, 6s each. _
Handsome Bracelets, beautifully Jewelled, Bs, ICS,
13s, and Hs each.
Broooehes, Brooches, Brooches, la 6d. 3a. 2a 61, 38,
3e 6d, 48, 4a 6d, ss, 5s 6d, 6s. 6s 6d, 7s, 73 fd. &•
tfd, t?a, f’a 6d, and 10a each.
PLEASE NOTE.
Ail goods will be sent post free, with the exeep-
on of the watches, orders for which must be ac-
mipanied with an extra amount of two and six-
jnce to defray postage expenses. Send in your
rders early, as the goods must be siM, Mid no one
lould miss this chance of procuring the beautifu 1
ems at less than cost price.
Nora ib 3 ADDiuss :
The Oriental Gold Go.,
474 SEsrge Street,
PPPOSJTB TJJE M^RRETS,


PEPPER AND SALT.
Rescues from drowning in our lovely
harbour are cow so common that it must be a very
cold day indeed when the respectable ferry-boat
passenger cannot brag of having saved at least
three lives. Tbe following letter, found on a
chevalierd'lndustrie recently boosted up in Mel-
bourne, may, or may not, aocount to a certain ex-
tent for the lacteal fluid found in the amygdala
theombroma “ Deer Jim. This Chrismis wes a
faleyure. P.kils, an ther Juoboygot Nippedfuret
pop, a bug-huntin on tbe park, but tommy
managidtu lift teven quid a boxin nite, deer
Jim; there is no ope Din fur yu over hear [They
found a nice little 7 x 13 one for him in Melbourne,
however.— Ed. B.] Me and Jimmy tbe pincher is
doin the briDy biz, but only, just makin ends meet,
an its a game that i don't take tu kindly. We
A “ Schema?.”
OLD JACK: “HERE, CATCH HOLD! BEAR UP! GOT IT ALL ON, NOW? RIGHT YOU ARE. NOW WE’RE BOTH COMFORTABLE."
knocks aroun the Worfs till we sees a proper sorter
mug, then i gammuns the Booze an falls in
the Watur. Juggins, of korse, orfs with his
coat an westcut an horJs me out, an while
we ar Splashin about, Jimmy goes thru his
oloattas, an generally scoops a trifle-sometimes a
ticker, too, as well, but its ard tu get them away
now the d’s is so bizy. AVe wuz orfully had on
Noo Yer s Day. Jimmy twigs a real goshur, with
athumpin chane an seels, waitin in ther Crowd
fur manly, so in i drops, jest at his feat, an In ho
comes after, but a 6teemer slewed round an neer
drownd ther 2 ov us. i wuz orl but, whin tha
tttfbd me out, but tha lumbered me fur orl that, an
i hed tu part arf a sov an du a nite as wel l , an
blame' me if ther Gcsher hadn’t no watch, but
onlft a allerminylm chano. not wurth a Sprat, an a
pawn chevy for bis ticker, i toie Jimmy weed
nev tu take turn about at th.r fallin in when i got
OUt, but ez be don’t seam tu see it, weel hev to
burst pardners an taik tu sumthin else, annie
sends her luv. Shees bln in tber jug since Chrismis,
but gingur saw her, an sez she looks a won. Rite
sune tu yure luvin frend Jorge.”
« « n
The following sum was worked out by the
District Court Judge after the holidays:—Plain-
tiff sells 46 eows, 9 steers, and 17 calves, at 90s. for
the cows, 683. for the steers, and 60s. 6d. for the
calves. Subsequently, the defendant agreed to
give “an average price all round.” Two attor-
neys and his Honor spent some part of a day at
the sum,'and eventually the disburser of even-
handed justice decided that unless the age of the
animals was specified in the indictment, the arith-
metical adjustment of the difficulty could not be
effected. Subsequently, his Honor decided that
an average was more difficult to strike than a
ghost, and the attorney on the defendant’s side
deciding that an average was as erratic as a streak
of lightning, in that it could never be struck twice
in the same place, leave was granted to move for
a n6w trial. Ia the meantime, the figures as above
will be inserted in'the next matriculation papers,
and burners of the midnight kercssne will be re-
quired to solve the problem or be “ plucked.” An
average is like a woman—you are never sure when
you ’av-er-age.
• a «
The custom has generally obtained ia the
Sydney law courts for the Herald man to occupy
the premier position at the reporters’ desk, then
the Telegraph, and then the News. How this
came about would be difficult to say, as the Even-
ing News is an older paper than the Daily Tele-
graph, and, again, publishes some ten hours
earlier than either of the morning papers, so its
reporter should have precedence of the junior
morning paper on one count, and of both on the
other. However, the point has never been raised
by them. Within the past few months, the Globe:
has developed a reporting staff which carries
dissension into the hitherto placid ranks of
police court journalism, A few mornings ago the
Globe man at the Water Police Court, finding the
Herald chair vaomt, had the temerity to occupy
it, and scratched away pleasantly till a mighty
presence entered the court. It was the Hbrald
man. Rendered shortsighted by the immoderate
use of an eyeglass, the great man was all un-
conscious of the preisnoe of the interloper till
within a few inches of him. Then he stood
aghast. Rallying with a great effort, he said,
with simple and touching dignity: “ Pardon me—
aw—may I trouble you for this seat ? I represent
—er—the Bydney Morning Herald.” “Sydney
Morning Grandmother,” was the Irreverent re-
sponse; “I was here first,” “Take me home,”
murmured the Herald man wearily when he
recovered consciousness; “oh, take me home.”
They took him home, hut he sank rapidly, and is
now (let us hope) playing a diamond-hilted trom-
bone—
“ Where Sam Cook has ceased from troubling,
And reporters are at rest.”
* * *
We have been consumed by the Macdon-
aldtown tribe of mosquitos, we have been devas.
tated and chased with furious derision by the
hordes that frequent the passes of the Marrick-
viile swamps, and have lost no end of scalps to the
ferocious hordes who have their fastnesses in the
Petersham cemetery. But these were puny
Asiatics compared to the giant breed that gorges
itself with blood and plunder in the New-
town quarter. With one thump of bis
flat he foods in the panel of a doer, walks
in, and, brandishing a chair, he rends ssun-
der the most cunningly - designed curtain,
stands ou your bead, and producing a Jagged-
ended diamond drill, and plaoing four or five
clutches on your tbroat, calls for your heart, and
begins to bore. Others enter here and remove the
bedclothes and settle down to prospect for blood-
vessels. When they have laid their pumps and
exhausted you, their stomachs hold about two
quarts each, and they are merry. They merely
bore a few more holes in merriment, and with a
few playful kioks they move away with a Mar-
seillaise to make a night of it at the next bed. You
rise and out your throat, only to find there is no-
thing in your Jugular to flow, and you injeot some
sort of a temporary Hudson supply, Just to keep
the channels open, stitch up, and enquire what
rents are in Lapland, now that that race is dying
out. Aecurate measurements of the boring appa-
ratus of the Newtown mosquito, as certified by
Mr. Harris Wood and Mr. Moriarty, and as tested
by us, give the average boriDg depths at 16
inc—[We pause here. As long as our correspon-
dent keeps to facts we are prepared to give him
some licence; but as the largest hitherto recorded
has never been able to do more than carry off the
leg of a lamb from a butcher’s shop, we decline to
commit ourselves to extravagant statements.
This paper will have nothing but the truth. We
have lived there and know.— Ed. B.]
* * *
If the platitude peddler, who wrote
“ Honesty is the best policy,” took the trouble to
examine the early records of some of our gee-
bung aristocrats, we fanoy he would not only take
back his words, but write himself down as a first-
class liar into the bargain. An anecdote. Once
upon a time, long ago, a Queensland butcher,
named Billy Blank, went up the river in search of
'* prms fats,” a: d 6tayed at an intermediate sta-
tion, owned by Jerry Nonesuch, for the night.


Shortly after saying his morning prayers (butchers
8 r e God-fearing men and never blew veal in those
days). Billy started off, but on passing the stook-
rd ’he noticed a strawberry heifer of his
browsing round in tip-top condit'on.
<< That’s good for me,” said Billy to himself;
i*l reckon I'll pick Rosfyupasl’m coming home.”
Man proposes only, however, for on his return
•Rillyfoutd a litlle difficulty in the way of his
driving Rosey back, inasmuch as her hide, out of
which the brand was neatly cut, was smoking on
the fence. Keeping his thoughts to himself Billy
tayed for tea, had a prime cut off his ownbea?t*
nd started heme next morning. A few miles
a
‘ tte™y?n?llZ!^ a ' 3e 1 t fW*
tTBW GUINEA CURIOS.
Ho. 1. Skull Of mis- ,
sionary, beautifully marked with
a waddy:
No. 2. Remains of a newspaper
started in New Guinea, some years ago/
used as an oyster knife by an ex-6ub«
scriber.
CvhKnued. ,4
A deputation from the Society for the
Propagation of Piebald Jack-Rabbits pre-
sent Lord Carington with an address, and
asK him to become the Society’s Patron,
His Lordship listened with deep interest,*
ana when they woke him up, said, that if
they would promise not to bother him in
future, he would promise not only to buy/
ewery piebald rabbit propagated by
tu( , Society, but that he would accept
Oj ihe address which he dared say
they could puj; to some use in the
•Yioe-regal kitchen.,
§>U 7he CL Cut i OS
Confrn KecL ->
>Jo. 3. Armlet made
from a whisky-bottle—-
crnce the property of the
feditor.
No. 4. Sea-serpent
baptured on Strickland
River, and partially
preserved in alcohol.
No. 6. Cock - roach
found in bag df oat-
meal belonging to expe*
dition.
No. 6. Piece of hoop-*
iron used for trading
with liatirccr.
“ UNOPPOSED.”
" Look here, Mister, I want to get these geese as-
sayed. My claim is next door to Mrs. Saunders who
found the gold nuggets inside of one of her geese,
and if these here geese of mine assay well, I’m going
to'float a company. I think the Great North Ryde
Goldea-Gizzardcd Goose-Mining Company will fetch
’em.”
A FOWL PROCEEDING.
Mayor ioung has discovered certain relics of the Loftus period in the Town Hall. How
they came there nobody knows. He says they must go,
Timely Topics.
Blong the road be spotted a mob of his late host’s
cattle, and sjnglicg out a big roan bullock wearing
a bell, he muffled the clanper, drove the bullock
home, and after putting it through the slaughter-
house performance, he sent a hind-quarter to the
local hospital as au atonement-offering, and pre-
dated the church w ith the bell. Some weebs after
this his friend Jerry came along to enquire
if anything hod been seen of a roan builccs: in
that direction. “Y< e,” replied Billy, with a come-
let-us-he-joyfiil smile, “I saw a roan bullock just
after I left your place, travelling aloug
the same road as a strawberry heifer.”
The enquirer merely remarked that it “looked
like more rain,” and then turned his horse’s
head homewards. Half-an-hour after, he re-
turned to the butcher’s shop, and putting his
hand on his friend’s shoulder, observed in a semi-
sad tone, ‘‘Billy, me man I right you are; but, con-
found If, you might h9v given me back that bell.
Kim across an’ wet it.” Jerry is now a J.P., but
the superior talents of Billy have enabled him to
“ go one batter ” still, and write an M instead of a
J before the P.
• • •
The snake season being a remarkably dull
one up Townsville way this year, the enterprising
journalists have had to fall back on a shark, and
the tale of this shark runs thusly. Ho was 15 fee f
no inches long, and, seeing a coral-fisher named
John Bishop skimming around, it ocourred to
him that John would be a desirable article to haul
along and fatten up for Christmas. Accordingly,
just by way of putting an edge on his teeth, he
swam up, and bit a block out of John’s boat, just
as a Sunday-school scholar would take a chunk
out of a sour apple. Bishop hit his sharkship a
clout with a pole, and then began to pull for the
shore in a style that would make even Beach flap
his ears with wonder. The Bbark, however, was
the champion swimmer of his district, end
soon got so close to the boat that the scared
Bishop resolved to throw out all the loose articles
he had in order to divert his follower’s attention,
just as travellers in Russia fling everything out of
their sledges, from their brandy-flasks down to
their babies, in order to cause a diversion amongst
the wolves. Three blocks of coral and a mainsail
were hoisted out first, but the shark took them
down as easily as a country schoolmaster would
plant a plate of corned beef and cabbage. An
empty keg went over next, and after giving it a
couple of shakes to ascertain if there was a “ nip ”
left, the disgusted monster rolled it down, and
oame along more furious than ever. An oilskin
suit and a coil of Manilla rope then gave the coral-
grabber a lead of 200yds., but the shark was soon
alongside again, and was only staved off by
another sail and a heap of fishing tackle. Finally,
the terriflecLman got into shallow water, half
naked, and drompletely worn out, and the shark,
giving him a sort of sso-you-agaln-old-fellow
smile, swam slowly home to dianer. [This story,
although undoubtedly true, would be far more
instructive if it ended in tha correct orthodox
manner. The shark should be just about to spring
on Mr. Bishop, when that gentleman, suddenly
seizing his mother’s Bible, which he always carried
in the bosom of bis shirt, thrust it down the mon-
ster e threat, and had the i Ifsasyre of pee rg Urn
roll over and die ou the spot. Thousands are an-
nually saved from the jaws of debt by means of
their mothers’ Bibles. If anyone doubts this let
him look In at our pawnshop windows/]
* * *
The Sydney Liederiafel have serenaded
the Governor. The Loftus family, who recently left
us, were (according to Granny) great patrons of
music, yet we never heard of their being serenaded.
But then Gus was very careful of his poultry: the
broody fowls might have been prevented by the
noise from attending to the duties of incubation,
while the fat and susoeptible ones might have been
induced while under the spell of the music to
leave the establishment. We believe our new
" Guv ” Is not a lover of poultry. We Imagine
he oares as little for musio. He looked the other
night as though he would have preferred to be
alone with a cigar. He is said, however, to be
tolerably familiar with the National Anthem, but
has been known to confound it with the Halle-
lujah Chorus, doubtless from the fact that some
audiences consider it a duty to stand when
either of these pieoes is being performed.
* m *
la responding to a toast given by the
gab-gifted Postmaster-Genersl <f N S.W., the
Hon. Daniel O Connor, at tin; iauquet given by


I the Sydney telegraph officials last week, Mr. E. C.
Craoknell, the lnlolghtened an’ intiUigint shoo-
pitintindint av Telegraphs, “ observed that he had
■een gome torpedo practioe at Kiel, in Germany,
and Tfery bad it was.’ 1 There was no need for Mr.
CraOknell, who helps to run the Sydney torpedo
show* tb travel 16,(300 miles to see that. He might
havb paddled down to the Heads last Baster
Monday and enjoyed the sight of his own corps
poking up their “Big Sen" with sticks, and
yelling brewery language at it by the yard, while
the murderous weapon itself lay as silent and still
as a knot in a log, and small boys on the rooks
shouted out to the perspiring officers to “ light a
fire under the beggar’s tail,” or “ job him over the
head with a ’ot poker.*’
* * *
Mr. Thurston, who officiated as foreman
of the jury at "Senior's inquest, remarked that a
Section Of the Press had libelled the twelve free
and enlightened by stating that six of them did not
wear collars. Why Thurston, who is a man of
more than average Intelligence, could not at once
■pot the spirit of envy which dictated the para-
graph we are at a loss to determine. The reporter
who wrote the artlole reflecting on the Jurors had
just borrowed a ooilar, and, in the fullness of his
heart at having a rim round his neck, he could not
refrain from guying the oollarless company. “It
18 not pleasant to wear collars this Weather, and
especially in a hot room like this,” continued Mr.
Thurston in his remarks, after previously observ-
ing that he, “like Moses of old, was slow of
Speech.” By—Nebo’s lOßely mountain—perhaps
he is Moses. There is no proof of his death. Hark,
the drum;—
Moses of old with the Lord twice held converse.
And Thurston quite modtstly mentions his
name.
As one who, “ like him,” couldn't ever get on
worse
THE NATIVE KING OB TTNGANA HAB ARRESTED BISHOP
WE ILLUSTRATE THIS PAINFUL A#FAttt ±N TWO PtfASIS.
PHASE I.—GLAD TIDINGS.
PHASE II.—“CONVERTED.”
That when speaking in publio for fellow men's
fame;
But bark to us, Thurston, old Moses the pilot,
Who steered all the Jews through the wilderness
drear,
Wandered collarleßS, shirtless (those Jews are a shy
lot)
Through the desert for many and many a year.
Uke our niggers nomadic they orossed through
the baokwoods,
They were free in their love of the bush and the
plain,
But Thurston, old party, they dodged round the
blaekwoods
Where Evening News people would “brevi-
ties ” gain;
For they never wore collars that emigrant party,
And dreaded a slating from blear-eyed young
men,
Who, 'void of respect for those Israelites hearty,
Would oharge them on chances and post them
with pen.
We’re pleasant—you notice our rhyme gaily
ripples,
For ne’er ply we fiercely the chastening rod;
But, T„ let us tell you while mixing our tipples,
you must be, old man, either Moses or Nod.
At late dates, the nigger King of Ungana,
Africa, had annexed the looal white bishop, and
was getting the gridiron ready. This news oomes
by cable, and is a roundabout way of saying that
the British Government is going to steal the
Ungana country from the blacks. When His
most Sacred Majesty Quaehiboo arrested the Right
Rev. the Bishop, a complication of desires in the
matter of bolting ensued. The bishop wanted
badly to bolt. The monarch determined to have
the bishop secured from bolting by bolts. In the
end it will probably happen that it won’t be the
biihop that will bolt. It will be the king. He will
sol thebisbop,
BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
A proposal wjw made—and lost —at the
National Regatta Committee meeting .to the effect
that all sailing races should be opened to best and
best orews. Year after rear we have advocated
that at the principal regatta of the year the pro-
fessionals should be given a ohanee, but it seems
the amateurs are too strong on the committee.
Aquatic men who remember the oontests between
suoh men as George Montgomery, George Bills.
Colebrook, Fletcher Newton, and others must
look with regret at the present state of things,
when it is the man, and not the boat, inmost cases,
wins the raoe. Messrs. Fitzhardlnge and Williams
have retired front the open-boat line, end Mr. Sid.
Wilson reigns supreme. Oatstders cannot realise
the difference “ handling ” makes in a boat. Take
Mr. Fitzhardinge, for instance; with the old yacht
Sybil, he won racrs ont of number, bs with the
Mulgoa, wMoh he afterwards re-christened the
Adelphi. We wonder if we shall ever again see suoh
a turnout of boats as on th© occasion when th©
XiOttie made her debut at the Balmain regatta The
race **as not finished in time on the 9th, and it was
run off on the following Saturday. The 24ft. and
23ft. aDd under boats were alike started at the same
time, the wind blowing from the southwest—the
worst gale, old hands deolare, a raoe was ever sailed
in over Port Jackson before or sinoe. A big fleet
of boats started: Montgomery in the Lottie, New-
ton in the Kingfisher, Ellis in the Duke, a 24-footer
turned out by Dunn, and Griffiths, we fancy, was
at the tiller of the 23-footer, Young Jim. Before
Bradley’s was negotiated nearly all the boats had
oome to grief. The Kingfisher, with only pleasure
suit on, carried away her mast; arhongst others
the Halcyon capsized and crowned a man, and the
field had narrowed down considerably by the time
the boats eased off their Bheets for the run to the
Sow. Ellis, thlDking “ discretion the better part,"
etc., ran into Chowder, and the only boats to
round the Lightship were Lottie, a large boat
built and sailed by Gardiner—the name we forget
-and the Young Jim. “ Put the small jib on her,
and he blank smart about it!" yelled poor George
Montgomery, and the blanks that fell from his
lips were terrible to hear wben It was discovered
the small jib had been left behind, and a knot had
to be tied In the big one. Hauled on a wind, their
troubles began. Gardiner just managed to make
Watson’s Biv, half-waterlogged, and staved for
the night. The Lottie, with her bucket down on
the mast-thwart and a little bit of the peak of her
mainsail snowing, wallowed in the sea, like a cer-
tain M.L A. out of the refreshment room, and
after making between 30 and 30 boards, managed
to thrash up The Young Jim, merely a big skiff,
thrashed through it Jike a duok and finished about
an hour ah'-nd of the Lottie—a fact which be-
lievers in a big boat la a gale of wind, Inside the
harbour, may putin their pipes and smoke. The
olaeees were distinct, so the Lottie secured a prize
for hf r maiden effort,
* * *
A big crowd put in an appearance at the
third meeting of the Sydney Driving Park Club on
tbe Agricultural Ground on Saturday last# Tlie
“books ” were in great force, and fairly made day
hideous with their offers to lay. The final heat of
the 2.45 class w«s won by Native Cat, who went In
saddle with J. Earnshaw up. The Cat did his first
heat in 2 42J4 and the final in 2 40. Uno made an
easy win of the pony trot; Empress defeated
Tommy in a private spin; tbe three-minute class
fell to Blueskin 2.51 and 2 52 3-10; and Jacky
Jacky made a very clever win of the pony hurdle
race. Native Cat, who appears to be a real good
one, hails from New Zealand, where he performed
well, but he has been—well, we’ll call it unsuccess-
ful in Australia, until W. Kelso brought him out
to astonish the natives on Saturday last.
* « *
Dolly and Surprise, who ran second and
third to Uno in the pony trot, will trot a matoh in
eight weeks’ time for £5O aside. As Surprise oan
be got a good deal fitter than he was on Saturday,
he may put the little lady through when they
meet.
* - m *
We are sorry to hear the Glebe R.C. senior
crew for the National Regatta has been broken
up by reason of Mr. George Robertson s desertion
of them for a seat in the Mercantile four. It is
thought the Glebe R.C. should not let their crew
fall through on this account, but as the Ever-
green’’ very truly puts the case, ‘if the Mercan-
tile, which has been in existence the best portion
of a soore, can’t raise a fourth seniorwithout
Sammy Martin, how can they expect the infant
G'ebites to do so? ” It is all very well for the
Glebites to make a cry out about Mr. Robertson s
desertion, but let them put themselves in his
place. Mr. Robertson’s show of winning with the
Glebe crew was meagre, we must pay very meagre.
Should he win with the Mercantile, of which he is
at present stroke, his chance of a trip to Melbourne
with the Intercolonial will bo great. Of course
some people will say that it ihakea the change all
the more glaring as Mr. tt.is one bf the Wdest
members of the G.R.C., and formed onepfthe
trio to pick the four in which he was Included.
But some people are only too glad to pick up a
point whtoh they think may aggravate a matter.
However, a rumour is now going the rounds that
after all Mr. Martin may stroke the Mercantile
crew at the National Regatta, and should he do so,
we have no doubt Mr. R. will willingly give up bis
thwart to Mr. Martin for the good of his club, or
rather, one of his clubs.
41 * *
Hanlan says that Tearner is the biggest
scoundrel in tne profession, and that it was bard
work to have to row against such a man. Teemer
says Just the same of Hanlan, omitting only the
allusion to the hard work. When honest men fall
out other men get their own.
* * *
Bravo! Balmain Rowing Club, far putting
an open senior nair-oar race on your programme
for March 30. Pair-oar rowing, both amateur and
professional, has been sadly neglected for many
years past, and we trust the Balmain race will be
bat the forerunner of more to follow. Old hands
who remember the form of Punoh and McQ-ratn
and Donnelly and Connor, amongst tbe profes-
sionals, and amateurs tbe Brothers Delvitte and
others, will join us in a hearty wish for the suc-
cessful revival of pair-oar rowing in Port
Jackson.
• • •
The first race bf the season under the
auspioes of the Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron
solved itself into a match between the Sao and
Assegai, both six tonders- The Assegai, which
was badly strained some time ago. was put right
hy Mr. Reeks, who handled her tiller on Saturday,
Dr. Milford doing a like service for |the Sao. The
wind blew fresh from the south-east, and the
Assegai won by 3nain. 12J4sec., but it is only fair to
the gallant littfte Sao to say she was very badly
handled, whatever show she had being lost by the
spinnaker sheet getting adrift, when the captain
had to luff-up to recover It. Mr. Reeks may be
congratulated over the speed he knocks out of the
Assegai.
* • •
“Ted” Evans and Garrett have finally
decided to accompany the fifth Australian eleven
to England, and as the form displayed by Evans
in the late Intercolonial was of the very best, he
should prove invaluable ia the big contests at
home. The team will probably be the strongest
that has yet played for Australia, comprising as it
will such bowlers as Spotfertn, Palmer, Garrett,
Evans, and Trumbl \ with other changes; while in
batting, Scott. M'Hwraltb. Btackham, Palmer,
TrumbJe. Bvane, Bonnor. and Jarvis will no ooubt
give the English bowlers a deal of trouble. How-
ever, with such men aa Sam Jones, M JJonueii,
Geo G ffen, A. Ba'ntrmao, and Murdooh left be-
hind, the te-;m oan scarcely be considered a
thoroughly representative one.
On Saturday night Foley will present a
£lO trophy for light weights of 10st. 51b. and
under. Tae entrance fee by competitors of 2j. bd.
will go to the second man. A good exhibition or
athletic and gymnastic sports will be given by
Professor CansdelTs pupts.
*
Professor D’Harcourt has expressed his
willingness to wrestle Caoedell or McCafferey. A
match will probably be arranged.
* * *
Mike Oleary, the Amerioan middle-weight
champion, has notified to Folev that he would be
willing to visit Sydney if sufficient inducement
were held out. Mike is the man of whom 81ogger
Sullivan said:—‘’He Is exceedingly clever with
his fists, and a thorough gentleman, if ever there
was one- Any man coming within reach of h)S
right hand is likely to be stopped for a time. As
Mr. Sullivan seems to hold doubts as to whether a
gentleman ever existed, he had better come
as well, and then we’ll introduce him to one or two
suburban aldermen.
* * *
Paddy Roaohock, who last week beat
Donald Dinnle In Adelaide at putting the 201 b.
atone, is one of the leading: players of the Nor*
wood (S.A.) football team, faddy, who does not
pretehd to be a champion of any sport, beat the
Sootchraan at 42ft. Sin. by the odd inches; yet the
eomnilttee, with commendable Caledoj ian cour-
tesy, awarded the prize to Tonal. Putting the
light stone Paddy again beat the Soot, his handi-
cap of two feet saving him-Hoachocks 48ft. 6in.
beating Dinnie's 49ft. Ilia, l’be prize was, never-
theless, awarded the recantlf-im ported chi d of
Caledonia stern and wild, i hus do our S.A. friends
foster the Olympian spirit in the breasts of our na-
tive youth Come over here next winter, Paddy.
Sydney will give you fair play;
* * ...
Sportsmen in Sydney will remember ttie
last Foley-Wewton fight. On that occasion New-
ton drew out of the battle. ar*.d this in spite or the
fact that all preparations had b*en made for the
fight, which was to be under Queensberry rules,
with gloves to be approved by the police. A ring
had been prepared by Foley at a ocst of £24, which
gum was subsequently refunded to him by a
couple of well-known sporting men. Subse-
quently to Newton’s withdrawn’, Foley met him
fn Smith’s piece, and, in consequence of some ugly
remarks made by a fancier of Newtons, Foley
slapped him in the face, and at once chal-
lenged Newton, who gave as his reason for with-
drawing from the flfrht his desire to fight
with bare knuokles. Newton again deolining,
Foley promptly invited him out to the hack to
fight for a skinful for nothing. Tae next arrange-
ment was for a fight at Botany, but the police
bearing of the affair put in an appearance in force,
and stated their intention of stopping the fight,
Foley had been secreted finder the seat of. Mr.
George Ftiil’s buggy, and finding it impossible to
bring the fight off he. after informing NewtOn|s
backer and traintt of the presence of Larry,
offered to find a place where the men could
fight uninterruptedly. This was alio declined,
on the ground that Newton’s baeker had
now drawn his stake Then George Hill
offered to find the money for Newton, and
£BO each for his seconds. The police, act-
ing upon informati >n furnished them, again
stopped the fight. Foley at length succeeded in
getting a match on in Melbourne, where, after
battling with glass bottles, sticks, and more dan-
gerous weapons, and in the face of threats to
murder him if he beat Newton, in a battle with the
elements of larrikinism and ruffianism, he dropped
on to Peter once and knocked him out. After
this, in consideration of the difficulty he had in
getting on a match and the abuse he bad to put up
with, Foley was presented by a few admirers with
a cheque for £5O. Captain M Donald, in making
the presentation, remarked it was a pity that tne
sport should have been so degraded, but hopea
that the men who had helped to drag the manly
art in the mad, would live to eee the folly ot their
deeds. Lovers of true sport, whether resident in
New South Wales or Victoria, will echo Captain
McDonald's sentiments. Foley is now prepared to
meet Farnan and NewtOD, either or both, for uny
part of £lOOO from £lO upwards, on terms to be
subsequently arranged. If the Melbourne men
will not meet the champion, they may be disposed
to enter in B<!»me of the competitions, the part
cul&rs of which will be found aereunder.
Laurence Foley begs to inform all atnletics
in Australia that he wili give two hundred ana
fifty pounds sterling (£250) to be competed for by
Boxers, to take plaes on Saturday evening, W-
March, 1886, as under :-For heavy weight boxers,
all comers, £lOO, entrance fee £2 ; for middle
weights (11 stone 41b. and under), £5O, entrance
fee £1; for light weights (10 stone and under), £oU,
entrance fee £1; for amateurs, open to all comers.
£5O Trophy; to be competed for under the Marquis
of Oueensberry rules. Laurence loley will no*
compete. Intending competitors will Please send
in their names as soon as possible to H. M. cans
dell, Manager and Instructor of Foley's Gym-
nasium, at the rear White Horse Hotel, Georfe
street, Sydney.*
That Wolfe's Schnapps is a medicine contain*
ing great virtues is undeniable.
Whene’er I take my walks abroad,
How very lew I see
Who wear such clothes as Summerfleld
So cheaply makes for me *
GOMPASNONI CATERING MU, LIMITED,
PITT BTRBJST, SYDNEY.
PITT BTRBJST, SYDNEY. „
npHB oldest nnd leading Catering at.bltohmffi in H.B.W. Caterers to His Worship the Mr*
PT* GRILL ROOM open. A Grill can JSJS?d^t^e^ocm*Ir°ThJfl 1 r °ThJfl
Select'your ownrtaak. Ac., mdse >j}Sg£ d woms of'fcha Prtace Alfred Yacht Clue
InspectioniHTUoa #MW4 «g If *«Reral Wm***P


There will be a murder up Goodooga way
noon. The editor of the paper which chronicles
the doings of the inhabitants of that rural centre
will be the oorpse on account of the following
« a r.“ At Goodooga sports on Boxing Day, some
of the white boys refused to run with the youDg
blacks, so the sports had to be re-arranged. Now,
we’d bet those Goodooga boys are not half so
white as they look.” We should like to he in the
Craclmell, the Divine.-A Sketch by Dan. O'Cannor.
"In Mr. Crackwell (sie) they had a man ... who had represented this colony, not only in a manner to bring honour to New South Wales, but to shed a halo of glory
on Australia. It was impossible for him to represent in its true light th splendid services their bad readered to solence, They must not overlock the faculty of
supreme honesty such as Mr. Cracknell had proved himself to posse. He hoped that both Press and public would naver forget that Mr. Cracknell had advanced them in
the scale of civillsation." Whoop!
[Extracts from P.M.G. Dan's spache at the banquet to Cracknell by his Clerks,]
vicinity of that office when the deputation from
Goodooga arrives. What a trip the editor will
have down the waterpipe as he skips out the win-
dow, just turning to bellow down the tube that he
has gone to Burmah and won’t be back for two
V6BTB 1
Editor Bulletin. Hr,—l notioe in your
issue of 2nd instant a letter signed “ William Carl-
ton,” complaining about your advocating the
abolition of the death penalty, and stating m eup-
port of his argument in favor of its retention that
06 per cent. “ of the criminals in New Caledonia
are murderers.” Now, as I have been a resident
of Noumea for many years, I can safely say that I
know a little about the Island and its people. The
statement made by your correspondent is a pure
and simple untruth, as not five per cent, of the
criminals are “ murderers.” Aa to your corres-
pondent saying that some of them have committed
many murders, all I can say is that his second
statement is on a par with his first. I have read
your article upon the subject of the death penalty,
and quite agree with your arguments that hanging
people is a remnant of a barbaric age. And in a
place lifee this, where civilisation is supposed to
bu nourishing, it ought to bring a blush of shame
to everyone’s cheek to think that capital punish*
ment is still in practice. I trust your efforts to
show people that the principles of advancement
are those of humanity gnd not brutality, as is
generally supposed among our ex-conviot aristo-
cracy, will meet with the success they deserve.—
Yours truly, Alphonse Gibauu. Eveleigh-street,
Redfern, Sydney, 11th January, IsB6.
Lord Carington, we hear on excellent
authority will, at once try his fortune on the Aus-
tralian turf, and will probably buy four or five
yearlings at Mr. Andrew Towns’ annual sale.
;»IN MEMORIAM.
“ Adam.—ln affeotionate remembrance of
my beloved ancestor Adam, father of Cain,
Esq , C.M.G., and the late Abe 1, Etq , formerly
of Eden, in bis 669th year. Dead, but not for-
gotten. Inseitedar ac st of 2s. oash by bis loving
descendant, Mrs. Judith Eveline M:‘Adam, of
Wooiloomooloo. Paradise papers please copy
This is tr*e it test Sydney style.
Among the donations thankfully received
and acknowledged by the committee of a Sydney
asylum are enumerated “ boxes of fruit, hooka,
“ free ride on Say well's tramway to Lady
Robinson’s Beaoh,” and “ G. A. Goodohap, Esq.,
free tickets for children from Redfernto Rook-
dale Station.” It is not of ton that a chief of the
Civil Bervice so generously puts his hand in bis
pooket and buys train-tickets for a number of
orphan children. But all honour to the Good chap
and Say well who are here thanked in print for
their generosity I Would it not have been a grace -
ful act on the part of the Government to have
supplied the tickets to Mr. Goodohap at half-price
so that big liberality need not have pressed too
heavily upc-uis puree? -•


LARKS AT LARRY'S.
At Foley’s rooms, in George-street, Sydney,
the other night, there was a good muster to wit-
ness the wrestling match between Cansdell and
M'Caffery, the Californian, for £5O a-Bide. The
turn-up was looked upon by those “la the know’’ as
a soft thing for the stars and bars, and 2 to 1 on
the foreigner was easily obtained. After the first
» "2. *"* *
•r
JV
3 gijzﬂr
7fiz> y sTTlisS’
' 7ua
#Z- -y?sir7fu<y 7
to J- H
My WA/UaJ yr
*• >- — /rrr>
( Cf f l ' ‘
W A 11
l 'CjO
Larks at Larry’s.
fall to M‘Caffery’B credit 6 to 4 was the best money
offered, and when Cansdell was tipped and the
•cores equalled even money was the market value
•f either man. Young Stewart and M'Kenna put
the mittens on for a merry rally to open the ball,
and in a smart three rounds spiel showed good
play. We are particularly partial to this branch of
athletics, and there is probably nothing which de-
lights us more than a buck in with the pads on.
Welovct * fl‘oor''pp’meat severe! tmei ii suc-
cession and if we succeed in knocking any portion
•f bis framework loose, we are morethan pleased.
We do not think so muoh of the game when
the other man bashes us, but that is pro-
bably because the fun is unevenly distributed.
When McKenna and Stewart retired for repairs
the doors of the arena were thrown open, and the
wrestlers entered. McCaffery was dressed in a
towel and red trunks, with knicks and striped
stockings. Cansdell was clad in continuations—a
combination of books and pants- The remainder
of his raiment wss not worn by him. Norman
Turnbull, who subsequently amused himself by
throwing weights about, officiated as referee.
Harcourt waited on Cansdell for the first engage-
ment, but gave Way subsequently to Foley.
M‘Caffery was looked after by a friend. M‘Oaffery
stripped lfllbs. Cansdell somewhat lighter.
Both men were pretty fit, and as they took their
places on the drugget shook hands with an expres-
sion of cordiality which was contradicted by their
subsequent struggles to throw each ether over.
Upon netting the word ‘'go,” b t * me t b uud-d
several leet from the sawdust and glared upon
eaqh other with an expression of intense and
deadly.hatred. Then they ollnched, and after a
short tussle broke. M'Caffery fought several
times for the arm lock, which Cansdell judiciously
refused to allow him. The French hug was put
on several times by both men, hut nothing re-
sulted. Eventually Cansdell went down on his
knees, and Mao set to work to turn him over.
Getting a good grip of his head he worked it down
till the Greolan nose of the young ’un pressed his
knees, and it seemed sovereigns to sixoences Mao
would score. Just theD, when excitement was
manifest amongst the onlookers, Cans dell threw a
handsome somersault and got away. The fall
followed shortly, and the men retired. They were
perspiring. Perspiration and wrestling seem to
be intimately associated. Barrington and Adam-
son entertained the audience for a few minutes
with the gloves, and put in some very good work.
Cansdell and- M‘Caffery onoa more faoed the
music, and, after a merry spin, equalised the
scores, CausdeU scoring a good fail. We were
just turning to enter the dressing-room when a
man bumped tiB In the small of the back with a
dumb-bell. It weighed three tons—at least It felt
like that when it touched our spinal column. We
were about to annihilate him, when our attention
was diverted. His size protected [him. Otherwise
our undertaker would again have been employed.
Some more dumb-bells being placed in the ring,
young Turnbull entered, and, seizing two of the
lightest, 621 b. each, he amused himself by playing
catchers with them. Then he snatched the 120,
and ereoted that a few times. After fanning him-
self with a ohalr for a brief space, he elevated
a gross—you kaow 1441 b,, and we were
going out to fetch in the last founda-
tion stone laid by luord CariDgton, when he
desisted. We knew Turnbull years ago in Balla-
rat. He was always a friend of ours. We are
glad to claim his friendship now. It is always as
well to be friendly with a man who treats hundred
weights as trifles. We saw Norman knock two
foundrymen off the sidewalk in Ballarat a few
years ago. They had been speaking about him.
Since then we do not speak about anyone. A man
looks suoh a fool eliding off the sidewalk on hie


At Ql5 n.m., Oanadelland M'Caff ery re-entered
arena. Theyshook hands and went to work.
At 9 40, Cansdell placed M’Caffery on the carpet
A A t-hZnnvnira railed “Fall.” We were excited,
hatswere Doing thrown into the air, and hand ker-
were beintr waved. We snatched a hat
from S the hands of a gentleman near m and threw
it a mark in the' ceiling. It arrived at the
gasalier, and catching on, remained suspendi ed.
|he owner of the same at o ° ce J“ itl ®*f,? ne 'i s
into some of the secrets of the
Raw beef is good for a black eye. And
then what’s a loose rib or two. Law, a fel-
low must expect these thing! I When we recovere
our senses, the referee was announcing that
Pansdeil had won the match, and we, with some
hundred or more spectators of the fray, adj oUr ®®u
to the bar and imbibed. This win win add much
to Cansdell’s reputation, as M'Caffery was con-
sidered one of the best outsiders. It s scarcely
necessary to remark that the pupi s of the
champion’s coadjutor were in high glee at.the
result of the match—a surprise to even the know
ing U ones After challenging .Tack Thompson to a
torn with the gloves, we left. Jack knows us.
He wain t on. There is not a single vacant hed in
the hospital. ; 1
Political
Points
The friends and admirers of Dan O’Connor
are going to give him a banquet, 11 honour of his
inclusion in the Robertson Ministry. They ha
better hurrv up so as to get it over by the 27th or
else the banquetters may have to sympathise with
Dan over the defeat of the alleged Ministry o
which he is a member.
“ Chalmers managed,” writes a New
Guinea correspondent, * to save ah the Louisiade
murderers from the consequences of their crimes,
the blood of Webb, Frier, Miller, Wat Kins,
Lumse, and Genet still cries aloud for vengeance.
The British Lion’s tail is down before the Parson,
and the Papuan’s Trinity still consists of Tamate,
Man-o’-war, and Jesu. Truly the Caucasian s
played out.” .
Lord George Hamilton is one of the indi-
viduals under whose wing Henoiker Heaton got
into the Commons, in which institution the Aher-
cora family are quite sufficiently
There were already, when the mail left, Lord
Claud and Lord Frederick Hamilton, and Lord
Georee and another hoped to follow. hord
"Frederick, who was elected for Manchester, is
skilled in ornamental missions, such as investing
the kings of foreign States with the Order of the
Garter. The late Duke and his sons have drawn
altogether £116,000 of public money. No wonder
there is so much constitutional fervour in the
family. .
The Tamworth News alleges that one of
the first political actions of Mr. Michael Burke
fiunior member for that electorate) has been to
place one of his sons in the local Lands Office at a
sffiarv of £53 a year, and that in this case the usual
KS It Government appointments, the
certificate of Civil Service exam., has been tem-
porarily dispensed with, Mr. Burke, juaior. being
directed to pass within “ a reasonable time. This
roncession. we may inform the News, has been
granted in other cases. We regard the appoint-
ment as a good one. If a member shows ability
telen if this is only ability to vote with a Govern-
ment), it is only natural for a Minister to suspect
that that member's son also possesses ability
sufficient, at any rate, to draw a Government
salary without any error I
PARADISE GAINED.
High on a desk of royal state, which far
Outshone in Dulness aught else seen before,
Danvel exalted sat —by merit raised
To his just Eminence—not him whose cap
Was flung of late into this southern nog,
Whth many a flaunt to flout a younger race
Who know the Whistler grip. His brother Pat
Attends obedient, second he to hold _
The sponge, or bottle, or to raise tbe cry
“Arise, old Erin, Robertson s tl s® , „
We damned before, and soon will damn again.
Princes, Dominions, Wentworths, and ye Powers
That held the great Thermopylean gap, . .
What time West Sydney somewhat qrooked looked
That to the height of this great argument
I may assert eternal ignorance
And justify Jack’s estimate of Dan,
Say first
TThis epic is too ferocious for our columns as it
goes om We cut it short.-Ed, B]
The bucolic folks of N.S.W. are easygoing,
and submit without resistance to pranks played
SS- the Justices of the Peace whom electoral
exigencies cause to be thrust upon them-pranks
elsewhere would probably result in their
worships being invited to take riding exeroiseon
a rail, up South, the other day, the only J.P. in a
village presided over a meeting to elect certain
waf officials Having invited nominations for
SSares s? if spmk
five, and
man be trusted to carry out a contract
te regarded as qualified to dispense justice.
This is the cold-blooded way in which the
O’Kane of the Northern Miner, writes
Oi een upon whose dominions the sun
of that Queen upon t jj ave received from the
proprietors of the Town and Country Journal,
Evdnev a large chromo of the Queen. It is sup-
posed to represent her at her present age, 66. She
Foots remarkably well preserved, not a wrinkle
looks remarKttuir e type is heavy,
phlefmati? and German®’ A solid' woman, no
phlegmatic, ana l hed She has made her
doubt, and well that othep
picture of%utcast London,’ pinched cheeks and
inflow eves; that terrible London where the r_ch
and the poor poorer day by day. Her
grow richer a cherished in humble house-
Pfoture wifl not be onerisae otherB whQ
and who died for a noble cause.” That
wfshould see such treasonous irrererenoe
< e “ a solid woman,” made her pile,
• "heavy* phlegmatic, and German.” By the mass,
neavy, pmw rphe man who could write
' SK disestablish England’s Church,
in ■motprthe rich poorer, and the poor richer, and
to ma * e fa® r .J° extinguisher down on England s
!7 en o ! 0 J l ords Thady is an advocate of separa-
|f ou8 ewnJthern Queensland. From this par.
:Se could believe him to he in favour of disruption
. of®the Empire on whose dominions, &c.
The Mormon apostles now in England are
ine moimuu country, whether
iteC^KSeit,of 6 Ewrtl.fi «lrK for
City are complete or not. The truth is, Mormon-
ism has got its death-blow. The U.B. Government
have plainly indicated to the saintly polygamists
that they must either submit or quit. To quit
■would be too much of a sacrifice, as they hold so
much property in Utah, The idea of submission is
treated with disdain by the elders, but some oi
them are quietly doing it, and although they are
promptly boycotted, and passed in the streets as
it' tbOy were'ucclean, the number is likely to in-
crease. The laws against polygamy would not
interfere with most Mormon households. Miss
Kate Field, who is expected to visit England soon,
says that very pious Morraocs have been known
to be married to mother, daughter, and grand-
daughter at the same nine, and to be married to
their own nieces. 'he Bishop of Springfield is
married to four of his brother's dfughters, and
another shining light is married to his half-sisters.
But most Mormons are content with one wire.
The most uoeompromidng of the saints, wbo_ are
ready to fight in defence of their faith, are taking
extraordinary precautions to prevent the detec-
tion of mavriages- But some US. politicians talk
of meeting this by making the punishment lor
polygamy—namely, five years’ impr sonment ap-
ply also to unlawful cohabitation.
Thus a correspondent:—“Editor Bui/le-
tin Sir,—l am a new arrival in N.8.W., and I
find on reading the Sydney papers that every
politicil meeting that is held throughout the
I colony and addressed by live Ministers of tue
Crown and full-blown M.’sP. are brought to a close
with cheers for the Queen. What, in Heaven s
name, does this mean ? I have been electioneer-
ing in Great, Britain, Victoria, Queensland, South
Australia, Western Australia, New Zealand, and
other countries, and never Baw a political
gathering of the kind brought to a ter-
mination by an indulgence in cheers for
the Queen. What is the object of this mean-
ingless and ridiculous practice, here in this demo-
cratic country f Is it the outcome of the servile
loyaltv of the people, or is it because some of those
who sling their hats in the air and lustily cheer
Her Majesty think their cheers will reach the
Queen’s ears and cause her to bestow on them
some of those meretricious baubles or titles after
wf ich this tuft-hunting community hanker si
much ? Or, is it because the electors are utterly
ignorant of the true principles of democracy, and
know nothiDg of the dire effects that spring from
the system of royalty of which shs is a part?
Pray enlighten me at once on the matter! our
correspondent possibly has never met with the
definition that language is given to enable man to
oonceal his thoughts. The same thing is some-
times true of cheers.
An analysis of the statistics relating to the
several colonies for tbe year 1884, brings out some
remarkable facts, and shows how heavily some of
our neighbours are content to pay for the luxury
of railways. A very large proportion ot the
national debt In each colony has been incurred for
the purposes of railway construction, but only in
New South Wales and Victoria is the charge of
interest on the railway debt anything like covered.
In New South Wales the net rail way earnings for
the year specified amounted to £850,825, being only
£220,541 short of the annual interest charge on the
total debt, fcnd in Victoria the deficiency was but
£292 856, Queensland had to make up £444,8i7 out
of revenue, after receiving the railway earnings.
South Australia, £404,756, and Western Australia,
wherethe net railway income only totalled £64,
£33,496 Tasmania and New Zealand compare the
least favourably. The former colony lost £9262 on
its railways, s i that amount has to be added to the
interest charge of £137,899, making a total of
£147,161 to be paid out of revenue. New Zealand,
which pays £1,699 764 to the public creditor, gets
£406,140 of the sum from the railways, and the
difference, £1,293.624, absorbs 48% per cent, of the
total revenue. As we have said, N.S.W. figures
are the most creditable in this respect, but there
are some ugly rumours anent the charges made
by the Railway Department on Government ma-
terial which, if substantiated, would serve to dis-
count the sum stated as “ net earnings.
One reason, perhaps the chief reason, for
the very general depression existing in New
Zealand seems to be overlooked by the political
Qitftd nuncs who seek to explain the why and the
wherefore of the piesent unsound state of affairs
in Maoriland. That is *be price of land in propor-
tion to population. With a population of only
half a million in the whole colony, first-class
agricultural land is as dear in-say, Hawke s Bay,
Poverty Bay, and C mterbury as in Kent, Surrey,
or Hampshire, with their crowds. Faulty legisla-
tion in the past is beariDg bitter fruit in other
places besides Ireland. Id Hawke’s Bay, between
Napier and Waipaura, some of the finest land in
the world may be seen alongside the railway line.
This land should support tecs of thousands of in-
habitants, and should be cultivated by a yeoman
population. What is it ? The home of sheep, of
Leicesters and Lincolns—not men, women and
children. No crops aw to beseeD, no grain grown,
nothing but sheep. From the train the eye hardly
sees the graes for sheep, In spring and sum-
mer from 25 to 30 sheep per acre are kept
in these paddocks; there is no room for men.
Labour is only wanted occasionally, and is
procured from the “ special settlements of
Scandinavians located by an ‘ artful dodger or
a politician in the densely-timbered forests
fringing these plains, the settlements of Dane-
virke, Norsewood, and Ormondviile. Nearly all
the arable land is owned by about 40 rich men,
rich beyond the dreams of avarice. These men
employ little labour, import their stores from
home—are, of course. Conservative, and cry out
that the colony ia ruined, but forget to mention
that the Public Works policy made their fortunes.
But the banks and the loan companies, have their
claws on fully half tbe colony, and pay thumping
dividend a, screwed out of the struggling settlers.
New Zealand offers a fine field for the money-
lender. Interest on 1 >ans over there averages
fully two per cent, higher than in Sydney.
A volunteer writes:—“The sentiment of
the concluding paragraph of vour ‘ Inaaginary Ad-
dress’ is one which must be felt in the heart of
every true Australian. If ever we are to fight it
will be in the sacred cause of home and liberty.
This is a thought which should, and no doubt will,
in our day of danger, nerve us all to great deeds,
and to endurance under all adversities. But pa-
triotism needs training and organisation to with-
stand the shook of trained troops in battle, and It
oannot be denied that there is little training
and no organisation among our volunteers. In
mv opinion, you place too much importance on
the need for mechanical skill. Trotops may
hare good drill sergeants and yet most incompe-
tent commanders; and the best drilled troops are
perfectly useless unless they possess an experi-
enced general and a w,e'l organised staff. Sir
Frederick Roberts, at a dinner lately given him in
London, said that ‘ For a volunteer service, which
he considered the only practical one tor the
defence of England, he would not insist on very
ereat attention to the mechanical details of parade
drill, but advised corstant practice m marksman-
ship. and of mere importance than all, efficient
transport and ambulance systems, and a well-
organised commissariat. There was also great
necessity to k-ep up reset ve teams of trained
artillery horses.’ It is a known iact that
our authorities in Sydney here have never
yet given their attention to B d ch childish
matters as these If we had to take the
field we should, in all probability, he starving be-
fore the necessary forms and orders could be filled
nn to sanation the purchase and issue of stores.
The artiUery horses on which we shall have to de-
pend, unless some reform is made, are now
quietly munching their corn in the bus company’s
stables. The Government, I believe, has objected
to the expense of maintaining teams lor military
Thera is a maxim of Prince Bismarck
totheeffeoi that ‘What is saved by injudicious
economy (in war preparations) in time of peace is
all lost in the first half-hour of a general engage-
ment I have some hope that our authorities may
vet be aroused from their stupor, ’l he Bulletin
might do worse than constitute itself a mi itary
adviser.’ ” '
Wolfe's SCHNAPPS— Keep it always in the house
and then you will have a friend in time of need.
Notioe!— Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Hookings, 1#! Pitt-street.
BRIEF MENTION.
Theologian—Sheol-ogian.
The Sydney Scottish Volunteers call kilts
their “full dress” uniform. We wonder what
their undress uniform is like I
“ Lord Carington invited the whole N.B. W.
Ministry to dine with him on Christmas Day.
We’ll bet he doesn’t repeat the performance m
1886. One’s idea of pleasure alters with experience.
Abyssinian customs seem to be coming
into vogue in Sydney. In the Herald of Decem-
ber 22, is the following advt ‘i?or sale, a quiet
cow, newly carved. Apply to the Bailiff, Govern-
ment Domain.”
‘‘Our highly-respected guardian of the
peace, Constable Stuve, has been removed to
Tara worth,” says the Gunnedah advertiser we
read somewhere the other day that ‘ respect was
“ the child of fear.”
'1 he French authorities refused to allow a
license to a publican who dressed his barmen as
monks and his barmaids as nuns. We can trace
the hand of the priest in this piece, of despotism.
The theologian feared that the devout would buy
their holy-water at the bar.
Lord Carington much insulted some of
the Bydney TownjHall officials by referring, in bis
speech at the recent banquet, to the drought
which oppresses us.” Drought
presses the authorities of the Hotel do Vibe* They
can reach the pub. of Charley Roberts (C M G.) in
half a minute.
The prize offered by the American Beer
Bottlers’ Gazette for the champion iiller and
corker of the world was won by E. Ellison, who
filled and corked 1853 pint bottles of lager at Brad
ford, Pennsylvania, in one hour, when they
want those bottles uncorked and emptied we have
a churchwarden over here who can put tnem
through in half the time.
Thus an official report from the North
“Captain Ross, of the Riven, reports that an
islander who was implicated in the murder of
Captain Fryer is in custody at Port Moresby,
awaiting the Queen’s pleasure.” Pleasure I len t
there something loud in the smell of that word in
such circumstances? One sniffs.the mouldy past,
andturns away the nose lejt the piles of dead royal
pleasures, akin to this, should stir.
Mr. Heaton, to prepare people for the
“ big fellow water,” wrote to the s.M. hjhilu
the other day, saying that “ the Durable blacks
were busily engaged in constructing canoes, ana,
u far astheycan possibly do. are laying in stocks
of provision in anticipation of a big flood. And
now a man writes from Walgett, saying that there
is only one blackfellow on Dumble. At latest ac-
counts he was preparing for a flood—of rum,
The missionaries carried religion to the
Solomon Island*. Lab our-agents went one better,
and sailed In with rum. A firm of German traders
cap previous achievements by handing round
sniders and rifles So, rung after rung, do the
once barbarous Bolomon Islanders climb tne ladder
of civilisation. What they want now is a religious
newspaper and an insolvency Act to be in the
thick of the first nations on the face of the earth.
Professor Marsh, the famous palceontolo-
irist has discovered that the braios of mammals
ire developing. They are much larger now than
in the pliocene, miocene, or tertiary periods. If
things continue in tnis upward course, he has
hopes that, before the next great subsidence of
the Northern Hemisphere, some experienced mi-
croscopist will have discovered the germs of a
brain in country justices, and, perhaps, in rural
policemen.
The German explorers have discovered an
electric tree in New Guinea. The leader of the
party tried to cut his name on the bark, and re-
ceived a shock that led him to believe he d
stumbled on a new description of earthquake.
But "then his name was Cloughenhozzenschwapps.
A tree that wouldn’t resent that doesn t deserve a
bark. As, however, a subsequent exploring party
found a number of lager beer corks in the neigh-
bourhood of this vindictive plant, it is surmised
that the shock that caused the previous visitor to
fall was bottled in Germany.
For a modest little reference to itself, the
following sentence from the Macleay Herald
cannot be improved upon even by the gifted
artist who presides over the jam-pot of the Down
and Gumtree Jbrnil:— “ Tne issue of our jour-
nal to-day—the festival par excellence of Christen-
dom—recalls to memory many of the associations
that encircle, as it were in a wreath of immorteUxs,
the historic facts of Christian civilisation. The
only historic fact the issue recalls to us is the
miracle of the loaves and fishes. The fishes were
cooked, and it occurs to us they may have been
wrapped in back numbers of the Herald.
Everybody has heard of the “Dames of
the Primrose League ’’-the ladies who organise
and canvass for the High-Tory Association which
is considerably responsible for the attempted in-
troduction to practical finglish politics of Salmon
Wilson, and such creatures. Well, we have the
authority of Lady Randolph Churchill for saying
that branches of the League “ have been estab-
lished in N.8.W.” One must go from home to hear
news The dames of the Sydney Primrose League
have, so far, worked in secret, and issued their
circulars on gilt-edged paper, surmounted by a
crest of interwoven primroses and leg-irons—
the Soudan goat rampant on top.
Do we think advertising pays? Well, just
drop your eyes over this, and judge for your-
selves. A family in Cooktown lose tneir little ten-
vear-old boy, and advertised for him in the
Northern Miner, Next day an a ligator crawled
up out of a swamp, raid down on that family s
doorstep, asd exclaiming, “Itwss all on acoouat
of that cuEsel drink,” rolled o ver and died on the
spot. In his stomach was found: A fistful of red
hair, a pair of boot-heels, a pair of Knickerbocker
pants, atop, a toy pistol, two green apples,-a knife,
and a piper collar. The ’gator had seen the ad.
and came to return all that was left of the boy.
We can vouch for this, because the editor of the
Miner—a God-fearing man in his own way—tells
the yarn.
This is the genial greeting a frizzled-up
and impecunious N.S.W. back-blocks editor offeis
to his 1886 subscribers and others:- Our Sard.—
Why feign each year to stifle wail and sigh with
weakly sentiment or whitewashed lie? Will
building chimneys with a syphon s bend demon-
strate sparks must therefore downward tend? Is
happiness increased, grief turned aside, by
tweedie-dums-andrdees of Cbnstmaßtide ? Let s
have goodwill and peace ana cubic dinners, square
drinks— long measure-as become poor Burners.
But all this gush the season brings about in Christ-
mas cards, and such is nigh played out. Cease
twanging twaddles neither grave nor funny; buy
no mdre cards, aad-aate-us the money. Then shall
the new year of Our discontent be better kept by
being better spent.”
Matthew Friske, a murderer, was hanged
at Grafton. N.S.W., on 9th December last. On
|tth December there appeared in the Macleay
Chronicle a notice that, at the suit of Sajauel
Coarles Lyons, the Registrar of the local Court
would, on the 7th January, 1886, sell all the right,
title, and interest of the above named defendant
in a piepe of land containing Dy measurement 6Q
acres more or less,” ete. The lawyers, urn see, are
fosatiabrafand are not to be denied. It. >B gener-
ally thought that all the land an ordinary dead
man can occupy is six feet by two. But tbp
lawver knows better. He is able to lollow a mur-
derer to Shool and sell up his pre-emptive section
of molten lava on the strength ot an abestos writ.
The lawyers executed Irisae in this world. And
now they have executed him in the next.
This is an. extraot ( verbatim ) from theS.M.
Herald report of the inquest on the Garden
Island Boat Accident A minute 6r two later,
said a witness, “ the boat that rescued me parsed
by one of the ladies, whom I tried to secure; r - e
party toil me to let her alone, and they got hoicii./
her astern and towed her over to Garden Island,
was still alive and groaning.” We have
1 always qadeystood that if w%s the cor; e;t thi’ig to
support drowning persons by holding them under
the arm, although some advocate grabblng by
the hair of the head;” but the somewhat antipo-
dean custom of-well, reversing that practice
seems to obtain in Sydney, if the above report be
correct. But perhaps it is the boat that is referred
to. Pooh I boats frequently complain, especially
if overloaded, but “a ive and groaning I Oh, no,
you don’t. It must have been the lady.
Allora (Q.) is a little town on the Darling
Downs, it bas a newspaper, and we nevertelt so
thoroughly sorry for a man as w® dld /° r
6-dttor when complaining of the dearth of news.
Wav. ble3B u«, there is not enough news in the
place to make a paragraph on which to found a
libel. The editor has borne this bitter trouble a
couple of years in comparative quiet, butat length
he speaks. Hear him:—“This issue P res
sorry spectacle. We know it. Cia we come the
‘crowded out by advertisements dodge? We
f ear not. We have been compelled to hold over a
jot of most interesting matter. Inis is a self-
evident proposition. We feed not mention, how-
ever. that it remains unwritten up to latest
advices Pccccivi 19 That s all* For a calm and
collected style of dealing with the Question before
the public, the Guardian man cannot be dis-
tanced.
The baneful effect of horse exercise is
aptly illustrated by the Patagonians, Formerly
from chasing 1 the ostrich on foot, these
magnificent legs. But, sines the
horses, the patives’ lower limb 3 have 'become
atrophied from disuse, and are now neither so use-
ful nor so ornamental as the sawdust legs-that
dangle at the sides of untamed steeds in a panto-
mime. Oddly enough, the former leg develop-
ment appears to have run down into the feet—
probably from the constant jolting-so that now,
when neighbours visit one another just after a
. shower of rain, you know you are in Patagonia by
the network of large waterholes about. to the
interior of N.8.W., owing to a similar cause, there
is a like tendency for the legs to become cylindri-
cal from the ankle up and the feet flatly amor-
phous. Indeed, at the Secularists’ picnie last
Sunday we danced with a Dubbo lady whose feet,
while obliging one section of the public to stand
on cnairs and the balance to go outside and look
in through the windows, could be depended on to
make an impression atter rein and so di some-
thing in solving the vexed question of irrigation.
One of our crack trainers is a man who,
when it comes to a question of surrounding vic-
tuals, can hold his own even with a New Guinea
chief who has survived a six weeks shipwreck.
Being too late for his usual training quarters in a
Southern town not long ago, he wm torcsd to put
ud at a high toned hotel, the dining table of which
was. to use his own expressive words, generally
“full ov silver plate, an’ flowers, an th like, but
th’ ‘grub’ wouldnt All a grown-up muskeeter.
At his first breakfast here, he noticed the bread
was cut as thin as a Passover cake that Tiad just
been tram-carred, but, by placing half-a-dozen
slices one on top of the other and then foldipg
them up he managed to take the edge off his
hunger. At dinner he was on the alert, however,
and, catching sight of the waiter skipping round,
he shouted across the table, Hey 1 are you the
daisy that carves this bloomin’bread-and-butter?
“Yes sir ” “Weil, go out an’ cut us some good
box logs of it- an’ give us no more ov yer striogy-
bark shingles.” There was a. clergyman at the
table too, and he looked as pained as if he had just
been hit over the head with a pew cushion or had
taken up a fifteen-penny offertory collection.
In Parramatta, N.S.W., a sect oalled
Rechabites have lately established themselves.
They are, as far as can be learned, a people en-
tirely opposed to the principles of shouting or
otherwise spending tneir savings m soakage. A
Jewish gentleman, named Jonadab, his surname is
unknown, started this faith in the days when gin
and religion were supposed to be intimately asso-
ciated. At the founding of the order Democracy
was probably the spirit of the times, but with the
march of intellect the spirit of dead Democritus
has been exoroissd, and now the tents of the
tea-drinkers afford the same shelter for the
soul of grovel as is afforded by the man-
sion of the Potts’ Point pinoabeck aris-
tocrat. The latest development of the crawl-
ing craze among these liquor-lacking lunatics
has appeared at Parramatta, where the most
recently established “ tent ” has been oalled “ The
Carington.” What sarcastic soul suggested this
title for the “ tent ” we know not, burwe do know
we would rather be a toad and live on the vapours
of a smoke-house cellar than be a bottle of three-
star forninst his rile Highness. “ The Carington ’
brandy-banishers should have respect enough for
their principles, if they have any, to associate
tbeir wigwams with the name of mea who are at
least favourbie to the oause of Temperance.
Carington is not a teetotaller.
THE MINER'S STORY.
The world bag seen no greater revolution than
that which was effected by the great discoveries of
gold deposits in California and Australia. . Without
doubt these discoveries induoed an impetus acd
energy which have, indirectly, but certainly, in-
fluenced the whole human family. The more pal-
pable result which is afforded by the astounding
development of this continent, is apparent to the
dullest perception. Tae greater Btitain of to-day
would have remained a mere sheep walk and cattle
prairie for centuries to come, nad not gold been
discovered in New South Wales aad Viotoria,
Population would have had but slow development,
aaa progress would have proceeded at tortoise
pace. We should have remained to the thought of
the old civilization, the ultima tlxide, ot' the world—
a vague, indistinct out-of-the-way community,
with no political or social st.ength, and but small
comm rcial or industrial importance
To the miner then, the poineer of our progress,
we owe it, that at this moment we count as a factor
in the history ot nations. And here it is interesting
to note how, from the personal and self-seeaing
exhibition of energies, tae growth and strength of
communities are developed. Tne eager gold-
hunger which animated the hordes of miners who
sought these shores, was the motive force under tne
operation of whicn Australis has advanced with
such mighty strides. Whatever industrial strength
we now possess; whatever commercial greatness
may Declaimed by us; whatever of advancement ia
art and sc ence, in political force or social culture,
is our own, we owe primarily to the miner. He it
was who, with pick a. d spade, cradle and windlass,
laid the foundation of a Btat9, wnijb, even now
in its first youth, bids fair to accomplish a des-
tiny as brilliant, as powerful in its operations, us
influential in its political effect* upoa other States,
as any exhibited to us in the history of anotent
or modern times.
But, in the nature of things, this stupendous re-
sult has rot been accomplished without greata»c-
jrifloe, misery, failure, and disaste-. All that glisten*
is not gold, as tne miner well knows If the priz s
of gold seeking are great, the failures aro mmy,
and whether success rewards the digger or not, he
has to encoumer tlye gravest haroships. the sev-
erest pri • ati >ns. As Mr. Kt«naru Jaoasoa, of Don*
Oily, Victoria—a mjeer whose experie ce Cates
from the early gild discoveries—observes; ‘ I
have passed through many hardships, have fre-
quent y been short - of food, water, and she ter.
iht se trials have undoubt idly left their effects
upon Hi e, and for fifteen years J nave been troubled
with severe pains in my Dacit and shoulders. About
a month ago, I began t iking Warner's Hate Q vu
and to-day i feel ia better tfyape than at any time
during the past fifteen years, an 4 would most
gladly recommend it to alt urotijer minerg and
others suffering in the tame way, or ill.througfc
any liver or Kidney trouble.” PUtven is a
long time to suffer pain and ir* consequent de-
bility. and we can therefore well understand the
grateful feelings ot tols pioneer minor upon dis-
covering a remedy which has not only relieved his
agonies, Dut permanently ranished taeir causa.
As an item of the great army of brave and ad-
venturous men, by whose exertions and sacri-
fices our great community was founded, hia tes-
timony to the virtues of the agent by wbioh he
has been cured ot disease, is worthy of respectful
attest.ion.


SOCIAL
Lady Carington held her second reception
at Government House iast Tuesday afternoon.
The attendance was not quite so numerous as on
the previous occasion, but tne pretty gardens,
verandahs, and refreshment-room were, never-
theless, well thronged. Lady Carington wore a
dress composed of pure white damask, made
slmoly and a perfect lit, small bonnet of gold net,
with a delioious bunch ef shaded pink roses in
front, long suede gloves, ana white broehe para-
sol lined with ruby satin. The Hon. Judith
Harbord's Joostume showed exquisite tas‘e. The
material was black and grey silk made with
aouave jacket, and the skirt was trimmed with
throe rows of black lace insertion, torough which
glimmered the white under-draperies; or«*m
witch-shaped bonnet, touohed with plug. Miss
Clara Manning wore a beooming oream dress, with
old go d satin vtst, and the skirt edged with gold
laoe, small closely-fitting yellow straw bonnet,
whioh suited her comely face admirably. Mrs.
Sydney Want looked majestio in a skirt of black
and white striped satin, and long polonaise
ef black satin, handsomely trimmed with
jet. Madame Kellerman also wore blaok satin,
trimmed with rich laoe, small beaded net
tippet, and white bonnet ; Mrs. M’Phiilamy
rooked charming in a cream costume, with broobe
vest, and a cunning hat-bonnet, ornate with lilies
of the valley; Miss Throckmorton wore pale-blue
and whitentrlped orepe cloth, long grey gloves,
and light bonnet; Miss Ebsworth, fawn costume,
with brown velvet vest and small straw bonnet;
Mrs. Monday wore one of the most tasteful cos-
tumes in the whole assembly, being a pure
white embroidered muslio, with small cape of
same material, and a rather large white poke-
shaped bonnet. The simple, though exquisite
costume, was universally admired. Mia. Brough-
ton wore dark-green satin, with bonnet to match;
Miss Gertrude Ffsoher, cream, teuohed with ruby
velvet, and small straw bonnet. A oream-strlped
broehe dress, with bright amber-satin scarf, was
very striking. Mrs. Prince was attired in a brown
satin underskirt, with draperies of pale gold and
white broehe; Mrs. M‘Doaald wore a handsome
blaek costume and gold ornaments; Mrs. D. Evans,
white costume and yellow straw bonnet. Whites
and creams predominated largely, and were cer-
tainlyamoDgst the most tasteful dresses to be seen.
There were also dresses whioh showed that the
wearers possessed more of wealth than of good
tastf, and also some toilettes which might, with
truth, be designated as dowdy, btdi, taken as a
whole. It was a brilliant assemblage of charmingly
attired ladies and pleasant company. Refresh-
ments were served during the afternoon, and the
little Vernon lads not only played, but varied
their performance by Binging a chorus capitally.
»' » ¥
Mr. John Sands, of George-street, issued
invitations to a few people of note to view his
Lit st pictures last Thursday afternoon. The chief
works were “ The Last Appeal” and “The Battle
of Trafalgar.” Lord and Lady Carington, accom-
panied by the Hon. Judith Harbord and one of the
aides, arrived at 4.30 and gave close and critical at-
tention to“ The Last Appeal,” which < coupled a
considerable space at the further end of the gal-
lery. Lady Carington was tastily attired in a navy-
blue silk dress, simply made but charmingly effec-
tive. The small bonnet was m the same shade,
adorned with a single wing. Miss Harbord wore a
pale-blue'zephyr dress, and small round black hat
trimmed with scarlet velvet. The immense crowd
which oolieoted round Sands’ door in order to wit-
ness the egress of the vice-regal party from the
picture gallery, pointed to the faot that there are
far more idlers in Sydney than there ought to be.
The visitors were lustily cheered as they took
their seats and drove away, after which the enthu-
siastic crowd kindly uaknotted itself and allowed
business men and women to pass along as usual.
'•' * *
There is no longer any need for pleasure-
seekers who visit our pretty Botanloal Cardens
with the intention of remaining there for the day
to encumber themselves by carrying their mina-
ture hampers containing comforts for the inner
man along with them—somebody has had the
thoughtfulness to suggest that a refreshment-
room should be ereotea ou the spot where ladies,
children, and even the sterner sex if they wish,
oan obtain refreshments-good, varied, and rea-
sonably cheap. The building has cost the Govern-
ment £lOOO. and was designed by the City Archi-
tect. It is an unique structure, and is situated
la one of tne shadiest nooks iu the Gardens. Mrs.
Campbell manages the affair, and already finds
numerous customers.
* * *
Mr. Boyle has been doiDg good work with
bis singing class the last quarter. Last Thursday
night an opportunity was afforded the publioto
judge of the progr-ssjof the pupl s, and their pro-
ficiency at singiag at sight was highly creditable.
The pupils now number 400, and the classes are
held In tbe Musical Institute, Gastlereagh-street.
During the evening Mr. Boyle was presented with
an illuminated address on behalf of his numerous
pupils, in acknowledgment of which he made a
speech expressing his thanks.
» * *
Messrs. Sohott and Co., of 281 George-
street, show one of the best musioal catalogues of
any firm in the city. Amongst their latest publi-
cations is one of Sydney Smith’s impromptues
for pianoforte, widen he oills “ Inquietude.” This
moroeau, though not too dlffloult, is well worth a
student’s attention, and is both quaint and pretty.
“Une visite d’Arlequin,” by JHenri Kowalski, is
a most characteristic piece, and requires careful
reading to do it full justice. It is dedicated to
Madame Charbonnec-Kellermann. Another piano-
forte piece, by Kowalski, is “ Kermosse Bretoune,”
and is decidedly pretty. A novelty is “ douvenirs
d’un Premier Ball,” by L. Streabhog, which com-
prises original waltzes, mazurka*, quadrilles,
galops, &c.—a whole ball programme, lu fact.
The idea is capital, and the book should find much
favour amongst our dancing community. Each
of these p-ofiu itions is graced by a handsome pic-
torial ©over.
» * «
Enjoyable dance at Inverfield on Monday,
tbe 4th inst. Pretty girls, good music, and dancing
till 3 a.m.
* * *
TheGoulbnrn Philharmonic Society will
produce Dr. Root's cantata, “The Haymakers,”
on Wednt sday, January 20th, and as the company
has been in praotloe some time, they should give a
creditable rendition of tbe work.
m * *
An engagement is announced between
Mr. J. C.Cox, only son of the late Joseph Cox,
PJi M of Forbes, and the eldest daughter of Alder-
man Hancock, J.P., ot Mertonville, Bdmaia.
. * - +
Several weddings are announced to come
off shortly. One, the daughter of a well-known
Jewish hs>us© in M*lbourae (who ones euter-
Eed Royalty) ana a popular gentleman of tbe
same faith, residing at Rand wick. Another,
i ©f a young la<iy who is well anown in society,
who, at least is a belle in name, and a young en-
riaeor who is brother-in-law to a dootor known
la military ciroles.
* * *
One of the most acceptable presents sent
to tbe bazaar in aid of tbe Women’s Hospital, Mel-
bourne, was a valuable consignment of hams and
baoon from Bolinda Vale, with Bir William
Clarke’s compliments.
* * *
A very enjoyable evening was spent at
she5 he Ferns, Rmdwiok, on Tuesday, the sfh5 f h of
anuary, when the charming nostees entertained
• few intimate friends. Dancing and singing
formed the chief part of the amusement a. The
hostess was attired In a very elegant gown of
brown yak looe over amher satin and brown moire
bows; her married sister wore white fassa silk and
broad lace; a young lady recently from Melbourne
(who Is to be led to the altar shortly by a gentle-
man well known In Randwick) looked petite and
pretty in handsome black lace and jet; a Rand-
wick lady looked well in cream muslin relieved
with bme moire and handsome white laoe; two
sisters looked deliciously cool In becoming gowns
of cream. The company dispersed rather early
owing to an alteration in the trams.
* m *
Burrowa bachelors gave a ball the other
day, and In consideration of the refining influence
Lord Oarington’s advent into the colony has had
upon N.S.W. society, it was decided that this
affair should be particularly exclusive, the line to
be drawn at shepherds. The invitations numbered
160, twenty of whom acoapted—fifteen bachelors
and live jadies. A gentleman with a real claw-
hammer suit, crumpled shirt, and stained aids was
considered the beau of the ball, and the five ladles
were simply rushed with partners. When tnia tall
Is mentioned to any of the oommittee-men they
get quite angry.
♦ * m
Lord Carington has bean discovering the
thews and sinews of the land during a oourse of
men's dinner-parties at Government House, where
be probably sat at the feet of wisdom and wor-
shipped 1! He escaped for a few days to Moss
Vale, aooompanied by Lady Carington and Miss
Harbord, but returned to town on Monday in
Earation for tho reception on Tuesday. The
lgton nursery has been despatched to Moss
for some weeks.
* * *
The Laidley-Moore wedding was a’ very
grand affair. The bride was a blaze of white
satin, diamonds, and pearls. The bridesmaids, five
In number, wore cream satin and dark green vel-
vet, with valenclennes lace trimming, aigrette and
bim in the hair, and bronze shoes. They were
Misses Olive and Edith Moore (sisters of the bride),
Mi-s Nankiveil, Miss Mabel Laldley, and m«m
Asgel Merivale. Mr. Virner Moore, of Sydney,
oousln to the bride, acted as best man. The bride's
presents were magnlfloent. It was unfortunate
that the day should bare been so wet and gusty.
Mr. David Moere entertained nearly 200 guests at
Charnwood, after the ceremony. The happy pair
make a tour through Gippsland before taking up
their residence In Sydney.
* * *
The Valetta, which arrived on Thursday
evening, has brought out some well-known pas-
sengers-the Bishop of Melanesia and Mrs. Selwyn,
Mr. Carl Sahl (Imperial German Consul) and his
bride-wife, a German lady whom he married in
Berlin three months since. Bishop and Mrs. Sel-
wyn make a very short stay In Sydney, as they
start for New Zealand Immediately, en route for
Norfolk Island. They really left the Valetta at
Melbourne, and travelled overland to Bodalla, the
beautiful estate of the late T, S. Mort, Esa., father
of Mrs. Selwyn, where they remained for a few
days.
* * *
The approaching wedding of Lord Gar-
goyle, no w Earl of Cairns, with the daughter of
Sir Samuel Wilson Is announced in London.
ANSWERS TO SOCIAL CORRESPONDENTS.
[Nom—Social items, In order to ensure Inser-
tion for the current week, should be to hand no
later than Tuesday.]
" Country Lass ”: Ves, Lady Carington does wear
a fringe,” but then It la such a becoming
one, that even a sensible girl, like yourself,
would almost admire it “Sybil'’: If you
have a very vivid imagination, the “Am.
moniaphone” will Improve your voice won-
derfully. Try It.
CORRESPONDENCE
lOorretpontentM %eho give neither name nor nom-4e-
vlume cannot expect to have their com-
munication* noticed.]
“ Orbllius” t Have condensed your par.
....“M. Harper”: Regret that the poems are
of no use to u 5.... “ Have at them *’: Too oornpri -
henaive. Tou should ohoose one point and stiok
to it—“ Censor Morum Rum la the genesis of
your trouble....” Vindex”: “ Tou should be more
impartial. Give some one else’s basket a turn—
•‘F.W.’j Tea, Bradiaugh la an Atheist—he denies
the existence of a God. (3.) An affirmation is the
Secular legal declaration made in lieu of an oath
by an Atheist or other non-Christian witnesses. (3.)
Bradlaugh offered to take the ordinary Christian
oath, and stated at the same time that it would be
binding on his conscience but no more so than any
other formal declaration....“ Thos. Love " (Bar-
medman): Tou don't expect us to publish your
verses, but let us tell you that they run very
smootaly, and we believe the criticisms
are really not unjust. Can’t you try to
write something, prose or verse, that we
could publish, if equally well done? .. “Mabel”:
We can't give you a recipe for coOkiog
brains. A* an experiment, you might try heaping
cjals of Are on his head....** No. Our
estimate of Lord Carisgton, so far, is that
he is a good-natured gentleman, whose most
remarkable characteristic is his frenzied de-
sire to please everybody —a desire which
not unfrequentiy verges on the pathetio....'* Eliza-
beth Mary ” : Which your Buraame is pio-
bably Partington. Have you heard of the spirited
lady or that ilk who strove to keep back the bil-
lows of the Atlantio with a mop ? Similarly, you
intend to counteract the influence of The Bul-
letin. Tou accuse us of distorting facts.
Whence comes the inspiration which enables you
to form mote correct opinions than we are able to
do? Possibly the whole trouble Is. that we
neglected to guy the poundkeeper 8 wife, or the
other baker’s daughter “J. H. T.”: Not yet .
“ Brighton ”: Delighted to find that you squirm.
Tou are a poor anohymous creature. Gall on the
man you address and tell him it was you who
wrote the letter....“lshmael” (Petersham): Tou
have annexed, innocently, no doubt, the nom de
plume of an oid and valued contributor. But you
haven't annexed bis ability. Basket.../*feLD.” :
*' If Shakespeare were aloive he would turrn in his
grave.”...** W.M B.”: Tea; G.V. Brooke did play in
the old Queen's Theatre at Melbourne. George
Ooppln wag manager at the time—“ George New-
ton (a Loyalist)”: Perhaps you are not aware that
toe Radical and Liberal members of the Commons
represent individually on the average far mote
voters than the Tsrles. Then look at the Univer-
sity constituencies, in all of which (Londoa exoep-
ted) the preponderating element is that of the coun-
try olergy, w hose dual vote is an aosurd anomaly.....
“O. J. Watson”! (1) 43 days; (3: It is a condition
of the new Australian Federal Mall Service (ten-
ders have now been called) that the .London mails
shall be delivered at Adelaide within 618 hours (27
days).,. “ B. C.” (Kllkivan): Can’t make head or
tall of your whale Btory. Never did take much
stook in whale stories. What's the matter with
you? Do you want to rival Jonah?..**“T,”
(Toowoomba,©.): We have put your letter aside,
in the hope of being able to devote time to reply-
ing more fully than we can at this moment. It is
a big question, and we want to give you a oompre-
b •nsive reply which will interest, we think, many
other readers...,‘•FT.”: Not worth reading....
* Gaffney,” a plain bushman, who frankly dls-
I claims all pretentions to educational attainments,
write* as follows; and we opine that there’s more
real thought in what he says than in reams of such
leading articles ” as some very pretentious daily
papers iegularly place before the publlo:—“ That
poem of Tennyson’s on * Vastness ’ surprises me
(that’s if a little, uneducated mind like mine may
be allowed to say a few words about such a gifted
being!. Well, it Las puzzled me to think how a
person seeing so plainly the follies of mankind,
and not being a creature of circumstances, could
ever leave the ranks of men and allow his vanity
to bring him down so low that he might drop into
the oompany of humbugs, and have to listen to all
sorts of drivel; to become a sort of patent royal
windmill-poet; a £etter-up of royal nonsense; and
write the poem on ‘Vastness,’ beats me. In
his lines of ‘Thraldom for Freedom,’ he i 3 to
me little better than the half-drunken navvy, who
stands at the bar of a busn shanty, and wbilo bis
clothes are still wet with perapiration, strikes up
‘Britons neverehall fce slaves;' although, perhaps,
ha!f-an-hour previous he was slinging muck in a
railway outting with tke thermometer close upon
100 in the shade; or, say the labour vessel, whoie
master tiles the Ss. Georges Cross while loaded
with human cargo, after aseason’s * black-blrding ’
on the islands 1 can pity those who are slaves and
don’t know they are. I oan also feel sorrow for
those that are staves and oannot help themselves,
through many causes ; but people who degenerate
to slavery willingly mad knowingly—not through
want, but that they may share In the oompany of
fashionable dudes, the vanities and humbugs of
human exlatenoe during the few years they live—
for such people the contempt of all real lovers of
true liberty is only what they deserve, whether
they be poets or anything e15e.”,.,. “ Xantipped
<B. Melbourne): We don t Bae teat the highly
educated German gentleman was so especially
felicitous when. In replying to your remark about
the roaring of the British Lion, he said, “The
British Lion feeds on Trafalgar and the Nile.’’ It
Is eaay to fathom his meaning, but the figure of
speech is not apt or suggestive,M. Byrne”:
We shall experimentally test this matter shortly,
and If there be imposition shall do our best to
burst it up —“Jno. Fleming’’: Yes, we like the
verses.,,JSto., Etc.” (North Queensland): Well,
we won’t “sit upon your doggerel;’’ there are
too many points about it. We are rejoiced to
hear that you “ have learnt many a lesson on tem-
perance irom your valuable journal,’’ and that
A Symphony by Whistler * made you a con-
firmed teetotaller. Since you ask our opinion
about your “doggerel,” we can only say that we
think you have nit upon the correct name for it,
unless you would prefer to term it ** pup-erell,”
....“J.0.F.” (Goulbourn); That kh d of frag-
ment was fossilised in the time of cbauoer. You
can write poetry though "GJM.”: Your
truthfulness is more notable than > our success in
writing poetry; and your contribution is not true
either. ...“J.M.‘ : Parsing is a thing which each
examiner does by arbitrary rules invented for
each particular ease. If you follow one rule, he
will pluck you by another. Therefore we
cannot pretend to decide which is right
Nor oan we advise you as to the best sys-
tem of book-keeping. We have tried all systems,
and yet our third dictionary has just gone
“N.P.W.”: Good subject, which we, in a future
issue,will endeavour to re-oast.J.CF,": As
we don't know what lawyers and counsel you
intend to employ, or whether the application for
the decree nisi will be opposed, we can’t tell what
amount of ‘ boodle ’ will be required. But you must
not marry again until the decree is made absolute,
or else the Attorney-General will have a lot to say
About your conduct...,“lJ&A."* Will try and
lick into shape—“ Behind tne Scenes”: Now be-
hind the fire. A fairly good idea, too long drawn
out, and so far deficient In expertness that nine
out of ten readers would have concluded the
satire was aimed at Lord Carlbgton, and not at the
lick-spittle crew who publish a long paragraph if
he but sneeze, dilating on the grace and talent
evinced in his style of atchee-ing...." One of the
Ol Polloi ”: The circumstance that the trustees of
the Art Gallery specially decorated the premises
in anticipation of a visit of Lord Carington, does
not strike us as sycophantic. He is, of course, an
honoured guest wherever he goe3, and it is but
usual to make some little special preparation for
a distinguished and welcome visitor. But in
dosing the Gallery against the publlo, the trustees
perhaps exceeded their legitimate powers, The
Gallery belongs to, and is paid for, by the publlo.
Still we don’t think anyone should grumble at one
day of exclusion, considering the object in
view. Lord Carington is trying his best to
make himself agreable. Apart from the po 1-
tioal significance of the grovelling which responds
to his advances, we think his amiable intentions
deserve recognition In the same spirit. One can
be politically opposed to the system a man repre-
sents, yet appreciate his personal good qualities...
“Simple Simon”: The Hon. Francis Longmore,
who, after having helped to fight the battle of the
Victorian selectors and working classes generally
for many years, was rejected .because he had the
oourage to take the chair at Redmond’s Land
League meeting in Melbourne, and afterwards to
affix bis signature to the Grattan address, repre-
sented the Ripon and Hampoen electorate for
nearlv 20 years. That ungrateful constituency
rejected him because the Press, and the Jin-
goes, bigots and “ loyalists ” of the South-
ern colony represented him as being a dis-
loyal subject and a sympathiser with Irish
crime, and bis opponent —Mr. IJren, who is
a sinning light among the Orangemen—went
everywhere about the electorate calling for
oheers lor the Queen. Mr. Longmore wasn't
either a Catholic or a Conservative! at any time.
He was born in the North of Ireland, and be-
longed to the Protestant religion. He proved
himself to be a bold, fearless, honest Radical at all
times, and never compromised a principle. Jhe
capitalists didn't hate honest Francis Longmore
more than they hated Graham Berry. They could
never “nobble ” Longmore, but they did “nobble ’
the mercenary and versatile Berry, and you can
now see the former working hard for his living on
his farm at Gippsiand, and the latter occupying
the position of Chief Secretary of Vlotoria, and
about to become Agent-General at £3OOO a year
‘•Freethoaght ”: A just reflection. Your letter
serves as a reminder to deal with this very subject
ef Ministerial responsibility, Wbiob, ai you point
out,is a sham at present....“T.H.”: We under-
stand that the art-uhlon in question has “ gone
bung,” and that there is little otunca of your get-
ting a show for your money, or of having
the monev returned “G. Edmond”: Un-
suitable. Trv again—on au Australian subject ...
**8.0.0.": The patient had better enter an hospi-
tal—say the Allred Hospital, Sydney—either as a
paying or ordinary patient Ihe disease is, under
S roper conditions, practically curable....“ A.P.8.”
lloncurry, Q.): Thanks for cutting. But you
leave everything to our imagination. The field of
Imagination is, in N.S.W., bisected by the road to
the Supreme Court “Rip”: Very good
‘ Grabbles ”: Please call on the editor.
Wolfe's Schnapps should be In every Camp
Cheat.
Wherever you go always ask and obtain the
celebrated Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Milton, the poet, wrote as though Inspired,
Fired by the Muse Lord Byron rhymed h.s wit;
My Muse is Summerfleld, he promuts his verse —
He loves my metre, I adore his fit.*
Wolfe's Schnapps—Buy original un-
opened bottles of the on y genuine Schnapps.
Persons who suffer from sleeplessness
should use Wolfe's Schnapps and they would
sleep well.
Swift Alameda 1 Fleete»t ship that e'er
Has crossed this sea. 'Tis raid
Her Captain hurried on because
Of Summerttelo’s tweed suits he’d read. 4
Over four thousand physloiaus hare testi-
fied to the purity and excellenoe of Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Wolfe's Schnapps is now Australia’s most
popular health beverage. Ask for Wolfe’s and
accept no other.
jpUBN.IVITBS SHOW BOOMS.
MU.DLE F, NWWTON, »nd LAMB.
f 0 Connell and Spying streets, Sydney.
ALL ifUMNITUBiS, MATSTANDB, and
OH AIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
IT~IRRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and SID!
Jj TABLES, BOOKCASES SECRETAIRES.
BEADING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
BA WING-ROOM SUITES, is EXQUISITE
taste, the very latest fashion ; -well worthy of
inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
ALL JJABINim for Choice China, &c.
VBBY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
jaewton, and Lamb.
NOJEOTIES in BOUDOIR and BOW WINDOW
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-fes4
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
un¥L TOiet7> BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
B ight-round “bedroom “ suiTEs.-The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, waahstand, dressing-table and
glass, and two ehairs. Th® lot for £B, BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-sfcreeL^
EDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).-WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble ton
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached; PEDESTAL CUE-
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT (3HA1R8,16 guineas!
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
C H ?f P f,V I ? NIT S R J-- plriG tables, from Kfcl
6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
messers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.s
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80a s
S^ dftr J?^? O ™ GrS! from 3°s.; Cedar Sideboard*,
from £3105.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. Bd.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
A-
X
Jk
StiS
PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
strong, and durable, Triohord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Case. Free at rail or wharves fo? cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
| TERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashlon-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices*
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs; also elegantly finished In
Embroidery, Plush, &c.
aHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs.
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
v
NAMELLED and JEWELLED MIRRORS, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
elegant I} NEWTON, and LAMB,
I®AWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAISS.-
- A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Ices, from 12s Bd. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAI R BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR.
LOUNGE, or BED, Very handy and Inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
OILET PAIRS, namely. D IDSSBT WO-T A RT.W
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair,
THULL SUITE? for DINING - ROOM SIDB-
JJ BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
GyURMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAlfeg, CARY!
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRB, all to
match, on view at Shaw Rooms, O’Connell-street.
[INING TABLE-S, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
15
I ELF-ADJUSTING MAMMOCK CHAIN—
t Patented.
%
Thin eh&ir adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vic-e versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet Ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the uumerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It Is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort Is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four Inches in thickness
When fi Jded. Price 80s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required.
2s. 6d. extra.
S~ ELF-ADJUSTING CITAIR and COUCH for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room stttttch
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, —A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English.
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and reauirementi
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
DINING-ROOM FURNI-
y TUBE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
THK VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery,
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON; and
LAMB, Spring and OUonneil-streeta.
SDSTRADS, nickel-plated and black and bras i
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and y
lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
aen and Spring streets
W
AEHSTANDS, with marble, from 265. eac
BRADLEY, NEWT.ON, and LAMB.
* , A^ N . and PARK SEATS 6 feet long. Rusti
mJ& Cast-iron Standards, 16s. each. Bradley, Non
ton, and Lamb.
BENTWOOD FUBNIffUJUL-A very eomplet
A*S6Hn«** • wteke, !©■» •»„?$ pyjogg.


HEATON IANA.
lick the m £o£n to whore the south winds whistle
pentaria. {oregls of Ca pe Otway, there arose
anion# tk® r .; aca i ghiiek of derisive laughter
on o announced that Salmon Wilson,the
when it of the flame-coloured whiskers
mutton m newspaper, traced bis descent
had, ina ?|fr«d the Great-a personage whom the
backioAlfr Q at flrst confounded with a
ignorant bu Henniker Heaton, the
P edigr .?rer,reBentetive Australian,” has published
other ro P roith0 ith + be uB ual “trimmings and
a „ pe j dl >f ” Here are a few slabs of it from the
«2nSbh Gazette:—
mhto) “ Biographv or Mr. J. Henniker
(Auio/ Heaton, .
.. T nnnnection with the portrait which we give
„ we reprint, with additions, from our ioaue
to-dayi a 8(; the following biography of our
b°r® being in old records spelt fleton.
nan lo ffl fher of the present candidate for
Canterbury was an officer in a line regi-
OanterDury vv “ er BOU of a younger son
regiment ? Henniker s statement is at this
knint ratne? 1 indefinite. It will be seen that be says
InS more about his alleged relative, the Lord qf
a lot more» “a”—we wonder wnether
ffidship also omitted the “ h ” when he talked)
than*about the offioer in the liae-regiment.l—-
unmarried a daughter of John Henniker, and
their son was born at Kochester, Kent, on the 18th
Mav f 1818, so the present candidate is in his 88th
valr After a preliminary education at the Kent
Arouse Grammar or High School, he completed his
jJaiTtinn at the Kings College, London. His
ffther having died when Mr. Henniker Heaton
was not five years of age, and his mother’s death
having taken place when he attained his 17th year,
he with the sum of £3OO, was sent to Australia in
the Great Britain steamship under the charge of
raoteln Gray, in Australia he took to pastoral
Pursuits with varying lortune. At one period of
Sts life he held, with his partner and friend, no
less than three million acres of land, on lease, in
i, a w • but It must not be understood that this
denoted great riches. Having a great pmchant
for literary pursuits, he embarked part of his
small capital in newspapers with varying success;
and at length he obtained (by marriage) an interest
fnoneof the largest and most profitable ne wa-
fers inN.S.W.; which proved much more re-
munerative than sheep and cattle and pastoral
pursuits generally. He now holds a sleeping
partnership in one of the best station on the D&r-
dng Kiver, N.8.W., on which are 35 000 sheen and a
small herd of cattle. He has also under lease a
vast tract of country in Western Australia.
“ In 1877 he visited England, and the Home News
of October 21 of tint year contains a most flatter-
ing description of a dinner given to hun, at the
Carlton House, by 40 of his old King s School com-
panions. Having secured a fortune after 18 or 20
years’ toil, he finally returned to England in 1881,
although retaining his interests in Australia.
“His public career in Australia is a most credit-
able one, and was marked by many acts for the
Dublic benefit. He bears in Australia a high
character and reputation for probity. The best
proof of this is in the fact that when he was
leaving Australia for England the leading colonists
of all political parties united to do him honour,
and entertained him at public banquets. The last
dinner given to him iu Sydney was attended by
the Prime Minister, other members of the Minis-
try. and the leaders of the Opposition. The guest-
list contains the honoured names of Sir John
Kobertßon, K C.M.G., Prime Minister of N.B W.;
Sir P. A. Jennings, M.P, the present Colonial
Secretary of the Colony; the Hon. W, J. Triokett,
the Postmaster-General; Mr. E. C. Craoknell, the
Superintendent of Telegraphs; the Rev. Canon
Kemmis, of St. Marks, Darlmg Point Sydney,
where Mr. Heaton was church warden-[Humph I -
Ed. B.l—the Hon. Charles Cowper, High Sheriff of
N.S.wi, &o ” LWhogaveto Mr. Charles Cjwper,
Sheriff of the N.S.W. Supreme Court, the title of
“ Hon." or the title of High Sheriff ? ar. Cowper
is a very aifaole little man, who wears a very clean
white umbrella, and nods to the hangman in quite
a charming way when he wants him to pull the
holt, but we now learn for the flrst time that
Charles is “ Honourable ” and “ High.” However,
as G. A. Lloyd is entitled to be officially designated
as the “ Hon.” within N.S W. only, so Charles may
he entitled to the prefix “Hon.” only outside our
boundaries. Henniker, being well-versed, in Court
—and Supreme Court—mysteries, should be an
authority on this subject.—Ed B.]
“In 1883 Mr. Henniker Heaton received the
thanks of the Government of N.S.W. for a gift to
the colony of valuable documents relating to the
discovery of Australia. In the previous year the
Mayor and Corporation of the city of Sydney pre-
sented an address to Mr. Heaton expressive of
their thanks for his generosity to the city.
“In all philanthropic works he has been most
active, and far more benev . - than Scores of
colonists possessed ©f larger - His common
sense, his perseverance, and u s vonderful ad-
ministrative ability was borne testimony to re-
peatedly by opponents and friends. During a
severe illness in Sydney from typhoid fever, the
most extraordinary sympathy was shown him,
and brought out more prominently than anything
else the high estimation in whieh he was held. At
one period he was reported dead, and most natter-
ing biographies were written in neighbouring
colonies when the news was sent along tne wires.
IYou can’t flatter a dead man. Henniker should
have told the public what the papers said when
they found that after all he was alive.-ED B] A
telegram the next day aanounced the crisis as
being over and the patient on the way of re-
covery. A brusque Australian Premier, who was
touched by the news, telegraphed as follows :
•Dear Heaton, I only thanked God twice Before.
I thanked Him the third time when the wire
Hashed the news you were saved. [lt wnl be at
once apparent to every orthodox person that the
Alinigaty couldn’t possibly take much notice ot
thanks from so undevout a person upon suck an
occasion.—Ed B ] . r , j , mo „„
t ‘During the great famine in Ireland inlB<B-(9, Mr.
eaton, though an Englishman, was the first to
inaugurate a relief fund, and he secretly sub-
scribed one thousand pounds. On the platform
.at the flrst public meeting in Sydney he succeeded
in arranging lor the appearance of the Protestant
Primate of Australia (Bishop Barry), with those of
other religions. The total amount raised towards
the funds In Australia for the committee of the
Lord Mayor and the Duchess ot Marlborough (the
mother of Lord Randolph Churchill) was £97.0.10,
au amount greater than the combined subscrip*
tions given by England and America. Thousands
of lives were thus saved by the administrative
ability of Mr. Heaton, who attended the com-
mittee rooms dally, and used his influence with
the leading banking institutions to telegraph at
the rate of £lOOO a day to Eugland free of charge.
“ Mr. Heaton, being a lover ot yachting, offered,
in January, 1830, a champion prize for the best
yaoht in the Australian waters over a 30 mile
course. No less than 13 yachts competed lor the
prize, and it brought about one of the mist in-
teresting and exciting matches ever held. It was
won bv the yacht Guinevere, the property of the
Hon J. H. Want, the present Attorney-General ot
N.S.W. Mr. Want shortly afterwards proceeded
to England and purchased the ill-fated Mignon-
ette, and on its way to Australia tue terriblee*© -t
occurred which led to the imprisonment ot Burney
and Stephens for cannibalism.
There’s a lot more, but here spaoa fails. It Is,
perhaps, just as wed to stop at a place where
Henniker lets us know he la prepared to use, for
©lection purposes, even a ease of cannibalism. To
conclude:'— ~ , „ , r
“It only remains to sav somrthiog of Mr.
Heaton’s domestic ties. He married iu 1873 tue
only daughter of the late Samuel Bennett, Esq ,
of Mundarrah Towers, Australia, who, on tue
mother’s side, is connected with the Vivyans and
the Carthews, some of tue oldest families in Lora-
Joyl 1
That brawny Soot, .Donald Dinnte, has.,
been doing the thing up Adelaide way in the
generous, lavish manner for which Scotchmen
are proverbial. He and Miller got up an athletic
tournament which came off on the second day of
the New Tear, and trapped the locals with in-
geniously worded handbills and programmes,
seeming to infer that both professors would be
debarred from receiving prizes. However, when
the loot was to be earned the brawny Donald was
in the vicinity, and struggled for it with his cus-
tomary zeal. Roachock, an Adelaide man, beat
him in two events, but Dinnie claimed the spone,
as his opponent had not worked precisely within
Caledonian rules. This excited the crowd, and it
hooted and reviled the lusty Scotchman with
unanimity and decision, and it several times
seemed about to vent its spleen in a free fight
Dinnie has a way of affecting people like that.
Donald likes to wrestle his matohes—bona file
ones—in li different styles, but so far he has
unable to drop across a man conversant with so
many. Should he ever oome across such a one the
wily Soot will not be beaten, we'll engage, even if
he has to increase his list of styles to 28.
The Rev. John Alexander Dowie, now of
Melbourne, once of Bydney, is known to church-
goers as a level-headed light of religion. He is
also known as a chosen vessel for the attacks of
the emissaries of Satan, who quite recently tried
to dynamite Dowie and his tabernaole into the
realms of space. They failed in this effort, and
John escaped. He has lately appeared In anew
character, and poses before the publio as a martyr
of the first water. He has lost money. And that,
too, after a business calculation in which 60 to
1 was the odds laid him by Mr. W. Holding, a Sal-
vation Army captain and prominent Devil-fighter.
In the year 1880 it appears that Holding an-
nounced that he had succeeded to a fortune, and
would give £20,000 to build a tabernacle for Mr.
Dowie, who was then in Sydney. The result was
that he persuaded Mr. Dowie to give him £3OO to
go to England. Mr. Dowie heard nothing more of
him till he recognised him at a*Balration Army
meeting on New Year’s Day, In The Albert Park,
as a conspicuous officer. Holding, on being ac-
costed, made a long confession of fraud*, whiota
he said be had perpetrated in Eagland and here.
Thus do we see again made manifest the fact that
religious men should not take the olds or gamble
in any way, even though the erection of a temple
hung in the balance. William Holding was not, at
the time of making the arrangements as above, so
beaming a lantern of love as he subsequently be-
came, but it is fair to suppose that he became in-
duced to Join the faith in the hope of working a
few more similar gamt s and getting rich enough
to start a tabernacle of his own.
“ There is no use of our subscribers asking
for bread and in reply give teem a »tone. Tbere
is absolutely nothing doing in town to-day, not is
there any news.” Bo waits tbB Riverine stab iu
a recent issue. Well, this is another confession of
honesty. The Stab, has, however, waxed vague
ia its metaphor. Stones, bread, newspapers, and
scarce local items are ratner distantly related, but
up Riverine way there is, of course, some allow-
ance to be made for the using of startling simile:—
Tell us, little twinkling Stab,
What your misty meanings are ?
Why is simile tike thine
Permitted in the Riverine ?
You speak of stones, and news, and bread,
Why, blessings on you, littie Stab,
You bristle bright with witty " par,”
Good ad., and wire, neath leader head.
I f news is very, very sc rroe,
Why live up there—a primed farce ?
Leave Riverine, that place is dead,
And go out ” whaling.'’ Stab, instead.
Harry Lynoh and his orowd are ringing
a triple bob-major through the egg-and-buUer
country. They ring the week out at Wollongong,
ana then go to Bulu on Monday. And for the next
three months every one In tn*t district who oan
beg, borrow, or steal a cow-bell, will try to per-
suade his friends that he is an incipient Lynch.
That is tne worst of these Bellringers. As they go
through the country, their progress is marked joy
a line of banged-to-bits cow and dinner bells,
which show that all who have heard the crowd
fanoy that it is “ easy enough to play on tnem
bells You just listen to me.” A retail beU-pediar
follows in Harry’s trail three montns subsequently,
and It is darkly whispered that Harry ” stanas in”
witn him.
When whisky - drinking and poetising
Bobbie Burns sniffed the morning air. aud je-
marked that " There's a ohiel among uS taking
notes, and faith he li print em,” ne spoke a p.o-
pnetlo truth, and descrioed the modern newspaper
interviewer aou correspondent to tne life. Y uiir
newspaper man goes anywhere ana everywnere
there is the slightest ot matter tor a par. ••no
morning he turns up alter a trip round about in-
sanitary Bydney, aad in glowing word, ot un-
measured condemnation he treats of queer smells,
mysterious perfumes, and inoaorous localities.
Anon we tinu him hipping nis aescrtptive pen into
tne pelluoid waters that are coming from rho
Neoean, and ere long he is scribbling irom tne ary
country whether he has journeyeu to see if tne
people thero are as hard up lor heavy wet as tee
laroiers make out. Yes, ne b a usetul felio >v who
provides many a meat for mental digestion, some-
times sweet, sometimes unsavoury, nut always
calculated to increase our information, and In -
aueuily to open our eyes wider tbaa usual,
wording keeps him back; ne chats, oi paper, »s
ir.islv aoout a fever farm as a weadmg bru«*tast,
nis Den is as much at the eervice ot an adjournea
inquest, when the jury arc quite sober, as ot a
festival of song; am he’s altogether a il ai-
headea, uoiquitous, jovial, amusing, entertaining
fellow Sometimes, however, the wind is taken
out ®f his journalistic sails, tor such was tne case
tho other aay. when one of tne crate attempted a
description in detail ot tne multitudinous warts
aofd by Anothony Hordern ana Sons, of The Palace
T?rnnnt 1 lira TD6 UfiOlli •
quereafcuiVbf ol the quill gasped out the siiDjple
word “ iSvertningl’ ana then g*ve uptheghost.*
Whv do you drink Wolfe’s Schnapps? Beeau. e
I knew from experience it ooes me good.
“I was reoommended to use Wolfe’s
Schnapps by a medical man of lai-ge experience
wno evidently knew its value.
Ask your medioal attendant what he
thinks of WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS as a means of
promoting digestion.
3rmSrts.SE«.
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
AUCTIONEERS, GEN E It A L COMMISSI ON
AGpNTS.
SALTS of HORSES and PEDIGREE STOCK
beid daily at the CITY H'iKBE and CaTXLK
BAZAAR (lately occupied by Mr. Kiss). al*o, Baleß
of FA'l' STOCK at HOME BIJaH and CORPORA-
TION yards.
Offlce-ITS CASTLEREAGH STREET. *
BUDGEREE! !
Trade
' v ‘-'
Mark,
2TO more: fever.
DTTnaTTßffif nmrvfi'PnrAN - r is ihe most wonderful Germ-killer and Fever*
Tb o de®Soye?known: l rtWS ba without it, as it instantly kill, all bad
smells arising from closets, bad drains, &c. sold at ail ehemists.
Depot: MS. C. STEEL, Bulletin-lane, Lower Pitt-st.
RS, and CO.,
(j 0 a. ROBERTB. R. J. ALCOCK. G. O. CHALMBRS. R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
!, aai MSI
Importers of
BTBAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES, W OOP-WORKING MAQHLBBBT
'RAILWAY AND OTHER CON Ttt ACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACH BUILDS*
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, &o.
“assrera-
IRON
I9HKET and PBBFO
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS. and|
BBTfeHWARB
FENCING WISE
WOOLPAOKB
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUYERS' IRONMON-
ROLLBD H GIRDERS
a s
233
MftCtt
'«r"\
K
»'!i . ‘jm**:*
[f *+££ <9
'SSfftUfcnL
GINEB
VERTICAL and HORI-
ZONTAL BOILERS
f TEAM and othet
PUMPS
iLATHES, PLANING,
SHAPING, SCREW.
« ING^an^DRILIJNa
£ STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRASS
I* FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLLED
BHAFTTNG
QUICKSILVER. So.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application*
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
Head Warehouse- -
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
- 54 YORK STREET,
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR
SYDITEY:
. St, SRACKMCBIIH »T«IW
Tendon OlBo* -
Baiiinann,
107 Fitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
«*r* LUNCHEON AMD Rim«SBHMBNT ROOMS FOB LADTRB AND GBNTLKMBW.
tv FENDING visitors to the old country
should Carefully Preserve this Notice.
“THE WONDER” COACH
CARRIED 1935 PASSENGERS LAST SEASON.
Mr P .T. Rumney, of “ RIDGE S FOOD 1 ’ fame,
is ettil running h a celebrated four-horse Stage
rivuib “THE wONDES,” netween London and
Ht Albans leaving Hatchett’* Hotel, in Piooadllly
LbndonVevery morning at 10 & returning to P.c-
at Albans for lunch
and for passengers *?JS. 8 R? o t,rt h nr m’q??N THE
wl ie'i is one of the FINEoT and OLDEST liN lfiii
W The L i?lp is one of the most delightful that can
be taken, and the prioe charged for the return fare
18 For e Time Carla and other Particulars, apply to
“WONDER’' Ooaoh Office, Hatchetts Hotel,
Piccadilly, London, England-
HOl,t.Orfl ! rS ,, 'l>a£8 Ver lNr I&NTMENT 1 &NTMENT
° There Is net a country in the oiviii*ed world
thft healing virtues of these grand medi-
cines have not been recognised by thoueands of
sufferers. .. .
In all the ordinary ailments of humanity their
beneficent action is at once recognised.
Fullest directions are supplied for their use in
every disease.
IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
t^tsisssssiE^se^&
and Pote. If the adtlr- a* is rot 533 Oxford-
etreet, London, they are spurious.
The FOLLOWING GOODS
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Cora Paint, Is.
Asiatic L'niment, 2s.
That Modern Appetiser—The Australian Ttajiih—lg
A. Boyer’s Baking Powder (free from alum), 6d.
Page’s Custard Powder,4in box, Is—makes two
quarts fine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linctus, for coughs, Is.
Claytm’s Nervine, for toothaehe and oold in the
gums. Is.
Dr. Barbarosaa’s Cantharides and Ruas’an Bear’s
Crewe oil, for covering bald pife ies and pro-
ducing whiskers, 2 >. fid
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & C 0„
177, 268 and 266 PITT STREET.


Woman Items
Madame Minnie Hauk, the prima donna,
has courageously denounced the bouquet nuisance
at theatres by coolly Ignoring those thrown to her.
She simply leaves them to be swept up by the
attendants.
Lady oanvassers are so plentiful in Eng-
land now that the papers are discussing at great
length the question: Is an election kiss to be
regarded as a bribe?’’ The lawyers don’t regard it
as a valuable consideration.
As a sign of affection, kissing was un-
known to the Australian aborigines, the Papuans,
or the Esquimaux. The few representatives of
these races whom we have seen convinced us that
this restraint was quite natural.
A few bachelors who intended to give a
ball coaxed their lady acquaintances to superin-
tend the decorations of the ball-room. They did
so, and nowhere could the eye rest in that room
without encountering such mottoes as “Paint
heart ne’er won fair lady,” “ What is home with-
out another?" &c„ &o. Yet some men pretend
that women have no business capacity.
Consequent upon the increasing muscu-
larity of women in Indiana, U S., it is proposed to
alter the marriage service there, so as to make it
read, “ Who dare take this woman ?’’ And the
brave bridegroom will reply, “ I dare.” Then the
bridegroom will promise to love, honour, and
obey, and submit to be led away by the trium-
phant Amazon. Women’s rights are respected in
Indiana.
Patti and Jenny Lind had a tiff recently
at a private party. Patti had been singing with
great brilliancy an air of Mozart. Jenny Lind
ventured to express her opinion that Patti had
rather hurried the time in the music. “ And lest
you may think," she added, “that I am like a blind
man speaking of colour, I may tell you that 1 am
Jenny Lind Goldschmidt." Patti, somewhat
nettled, retorted, “ Oh yes, I know you were a
famous singer—once. I have heard my grand-
father speak of you.”
From Modern Society: “At the ball given
last week at Sandringham House each woman
appears to have made a determined effort to out-
do every other member of her sex either in the
make and oolour of her gown, or by appearing
without a bodioe. A waistband and two shoulder-
straps seems to have been the order of the nigbt,
and there was as fine an exhibition of skin and
bones and flesh as could be met with between here
and the antipodes.” Thus do the aristocratio
maidens and matrons of England prove their right
to be considered fast by a determined effort to
out-strip one another. But what does Society
mean by the “antipodes.” Our lady friends may
know, but we don t pretend to a knowledge of
feminine articles of alleged apparel.
J am a modest little maid,
Who thinks it more polite
To bid a man “ good evening ”
Than bid a man “ good night."
And if the human members
Are introduced by him,
X always o&li an arm an aim,
A leg a “ lower limb.”
I never speak of feeling sick,
But say that I am “ ill,”
And being in my dressing-gown
I style en deshabille.
In fact, I alway s hesitate
To oail a spade a spade,
Because, you see, I try to be
A modest little maid. v
Melbourne is onoe more to the front with
a matrimonial phenomenon. The bride, at a recent
wedding In that city, owned up to 67 winters, and
the bridegroom was 21. We were going to say
“had come to years of discretion,” but his action
makes the phrase sound like a palpable untruth.
Of course the connubial Katisha had money. The
curious thing about the affair Is that the bride
was engaged to her present hub’s father about
40 years ago, but the course of their true love
did not run smooth. Possibly she was not then
sufficiently matured. Possibly Bhe is now.
Bhe was suffering from a severe attack of
rheumatism on her wedding-day, but is since re-
ported to be better. A man Of 21 is very youDg
to be entrusted with the care of a sprightly little
maiden of 67. We hope he will take due care of
her, and th'at she will be similarly cautious about
her money.
In Japan etiquette demands that when a
gent’eman calls upon a lady he shall stay until she
gives him “ the office ” to depart. To go sooner
would be a fearful soleolam. This custom put a
Japanese visitor to London in an awkward fix re-
oently. He went during the morning to pay a
Srst call, and found only the lady of the house at
ome. Hour after hour he stayed: luncheon
came, but he went not, and during the atteraoon
he attached himself to the household furniture as
fixedly as though he were a bailiff, although he
felt himself to be as unwelcome as that official.
At length dinner and the master of the house ar-
rived simultaneously, hut still he stuck to his posi-
tion like another defeated Premier of N.B.W.
During the eveniDg the host and hostess took
half-hour spells of entertaining him, and at last
when the clock announced ghost-time he got up,
and, with the most abjeot apologies for leaving so
soon, put himself on the outside of the front door.
The visitation was of Itself penance enough for
the lady, but it was not the end of her trouble, for
Jap. told his friends about her treatment of him.
He said he bad never spent so bad a time before;
his hostess had made him stay hour after hour, so
that he had at last to be absolutely rude to her,
and depart without her permission. In Bydney,
when a fellow calls on his girl, It is usually the
old man who gives him a hint to clear. Often
enoqgh it is a No. 0 size hint, made in blucher style,
With a sole two inches thick.
What it has come to in Sydney “ Re*?
quired, a respectable and thoroughly experienced
General Bervant, 14s. weekly; no washing, no iron-
ing, gas stove, water laid on below stairs and
above; four in family; allowed out every Sunday
afternoon and all public holidays. Miss —-,
<=■ House, —ssr road, - Paddington.” “ It is
sueh advertisements as this,” a lady correspondent
writes us, “ that prevent many honest-minded
women from procuring suitable domestics.”
Quite true, but advertisements of this kind are
hot altogether responsible for the fair writer’s
woes. A Sydney clothing manufacturer told us
the other day that he wanted 100 girlß in his estab-
lishment and couldn’t get 30. Such girls, he said,
earned up to £3 a week; 40 of those em-
ployed by him averaged £2 M. weekly ;
their hours were by no means excessive, they were
ail addressed as “Miss,” instead of “May” or
" Kites ” (a fact when to the ordinary woman was
worth much more than half-a-sovereign a week),
and they had all their evenings to themselves. It,
of course, seems hard to ladies that they should
Sot be able to gptservants. Fu if the present
earth of domestic labour letups t * ft alian girls
being compelled by their mothers t to a great
extent as the domestics of their own homes, it
will bp a good deal better for the country in the
long run. Most level-headed men would rather
see girls discussing plum-puddings than polities
Stud the higher education of women.
It Is so remarkably seldom that we hear
anyone calling out “stinking fish for sale’’ th ‘ we
boqnd to notffie the following item, if
only for the sake of Its novel character. A new
venture In journalism, called Tne Matrimonial
News has just been started In Melbourne to fill
the usual long-felt want. The editor’s own words
are that the thins: is to be “ devoted to the promo-
tion of conjugal felicity, having for its object the
abolition of that civilisation which combined with
the cold formalities of society, and the rules of
etiquette, imposes such restrictions on the sexes
that there are thousands of marriageable men aud
women, of ail ages, capable of making each other
happy, who never have a chance of meeting,
either in town or country.” To remedy this, the
News intends to be the means of bringing ladies
and gentlemen “ honestly together,” and at the
same time furnish a budget of readable matter cal-
culated to advance the interests of the married
state. With wonderful irony or ignorance, how-
ever, the editor, who could never have heard of
Mrs. Caudle, heads bis first article “The Peace of
Steep,” a little matter to which every respectable
6ort of father must necessarily be a tutal stranger.
As if this was not enough to choke any sane man
olf the .business, however, we are treated to
another blood-ourdling item whioh says, *' A wife
in San Francisco lately put a petition for divorce
in the court, on the ground that her husband was
a‘confounded fool.’ The court wouldn’t admit
her plea, because almost every married man would
be liable to the same imputation.” After that, let
us have this deluge that thelMaoris, blacks, and
ants are preparing for. Death has no terrors for
us now.
The Montenegrins have some very pecu-
liar oustoms, notably those relating to marriage.
A Montenegro masher does not see his girl until
be is introduced to her at a banquet arranged for
the purpose. If she then consents to drink with
him, the engagement is at once announced. A
similar custom obtains at Clontarf picnics. If a
“ bart ” drinks with a "joker ” he is considered to
have a registered mortgage on her sweete3t smiles
for the rest of the day. In Montenegro th© hus-
band bosses his household in a monarchic fashion,
but his reign does not begin until after the honey-
moon is over. Here again their usages are similar
to ours, for “ lovey” always takes in the milk until
the end of the honeymoon here, afer which
"dovey” has to leave the old man snoring
and go down with the jug herself. But
this is wandering from the subject. On the
wedding-day, in Montenegro, the bride heads
a sort of triumphal procession to the church,
accompanied by her relatives and the local
equivalent of the Sydney Lanceahs and Sal-
vation Army. The bridegroom, on the contrary,
sneaks in as secretly as possible, and departs in the
same undignified manner, amid the openly-
expressed derision of all who happen to see him.
A banquet follows the ceremony, and in the morn-
iog the guests ante-up Britannia teapots, glass
butter-dishes, and similar artioles of use or vertu.
If a son is the result of the ceremony, rejoicing
ensues, and the health of both parties is drunk
with the usual He’s-a-jolly-good-fellow accom-
paniment, but if a daughter be found beneath the
fabled gooseberry bush the husband apologises for
the error, and promises that it shall never occur
again. Daughters there are a drug in the market,
while sons are invariably above par. Funny
people the Montenegrins.
Someone has somewhere obscurely hinted
that jealousy is a part, of course a small one, of
woman’s character. His suspicions would be
strengthened by the report of a scene whioh re-
cently took plaoe within a Paris cemetery. Tears
ago, it is said, a couple were married in the world’s
metropolis of fashion, and of the linked pair the
wife proved entirely devoted and faithful, but the
husband was entirely otherwise. The wife could
never discover who the other woman was,
although hubby’s unfaithfulness was notorious.
After several years the sinful one died, and the
wife, who loved him to the last, went, on the anni-
versary of bis death, to scatter roses and tears on
the grave. But at the sacred spot she found that
someone else was already employed in this way,
and this other person was a comparatively young
and superlatively beautiful wooun. They took
in the situation simultaneously, and fa less
than 10 seconds teeth and nails were in
active demand, while blood and hair were
a drug in the market. The combat of the
Centaurs and Lapithae pales into utter insig-
nificance compared with this encounter. They
wrestled and gouged and yelled over the grave of
the departed Lothario until the spectators tore
them asunder, and then each departed in much
haste to publish her own account first. There is a
moral in this somewhere, but we have not time to
chop it out now, but content ourselves with the
lament that if a man can get the reputation of
being “a right down bad ’un,” he is always
effusively adored by the more beautiful moiety of
humanity, if, on the contrary, a man gets the
reputation of virtue, his chance of securing “ one
to be to him most dear ” is too infinitesimal to be
worth calculation. We are virtuous (and beauti-
ful), but have never yet been deeply loved, and
would only be too honoured by the love of one
who would —IMatrimonial ads. are inserted at
usual rates in another column.—Ed. B.]
If the late Governor of Alßaoe-Lorraine
chastised his subjects with whips, it appears that
Prinoe Hohenlohe intends to chastise them with
scorpions. Where Manteuffel suppressed one
Journal, the present Stattbalter suppresses ten.
n the two provinces now, out of all the multitude
of daily and periodical French papers, there re-
main only the Temps, the Figaro, the Gil Blas,
and the Petit Journal to choose from.
Says an English paper:—“At the Derby
Assizes, KirtFy, a tailor, was convicted of burglary,
and sentenced to 18 months. In passing sentence,
the Judge said Kirby deserved flogging because
he invited his Maker to ' strike him dead if he
was guilty.’ Another man, Clarke, convicted of
anotner orime, has since confessed to having com-
mitted the very burglary for which Kirby has
been suffering. The innocent man has just re-
ceived a ‘ free pardon ’ and been liberated, after
undergoing eight months’ hard labour! If the
Government does not compensate this abominably
ill-used man to the tune of at least £5OO he will
have a legitimate grievance to his dying day.
At St. Thomas’ A nglioan Church, Auck-
land (N.Z.), during service on All Saints' Day, a
number of the congregation walked out. thus and
by this means protesting against certain Ritualistic
practices of the officiating parson. The main
oause of offence was the bearing by one of the
choir of a cross during the singing of the pro-
cessional hymn. Well, personally we are Pagans,
but if the choristers in our Joss-house were to
walk round on their hands, bearing a step-ladder
on each foot, while they bellowed the war song of
the Greeks, we would still have sufficient respect
for tne God we worship, or pretend to, to keep our
seats till the collection boxes were put in motion.
Then we circulate.
Some pious cranks have of late been going
round Sydney with big lumps of cbalfc, and
writing, ‘•Read Romans Bfch,” on every discoverable
wall and spaae. But the sons of Belial have fol-
lowed in the track of the cranks, and altered the
inscription to “ Read Romans 18th.” And those
good persons who, prompted by that same idle
curiosity which prompts many people to go to
church, look for the 18th Romans and And it not,
blaspheme somewhat, and sharpen their little
hatchets, that they may fall upon the man with
the chalk. All this shows that the children of this
world are still able to get the weather-gauge of
the children of Jight, and lick them more taan ton-
nage allowance every time.
Amougst the many cholera tales worth re-
telling is one whioh treats ef a grand roll-up
which took place of all the p agues in the world—
a sort of Monster Unheaitberies Exhibition.
Every known epidemic sent along an influential
representative, and in order to make things hum,
invitations w.-re issued *o the Press and many
other articles as well The cholera having travelled
a great deal about that time on a starring tour, and
got up its name, as it were, was given a hearty
welcome, and taken round to be introduced to the
rest of the gay and festive revellers. Mr. Yellow
Jack, Typhus Fever, and the versatile Variola, old
Father Coffin, and many others were greeted by
the cheerful Cholera as old friends, but suddenly
t ' onplng before one he had never seen before he
.vdaimed in amazement, “Have you travelled
much, stranger? ” “ I have,” was the modest reply
made. “ Indeed,” said the Cholera, “ that’s deuced
strange. You never met me before, did you? ”
“Never,” replied the other. “Queer —very
queer,” mused the Cholera, “ I thought I knew
everybody. Pray what might your name be? ”
“My name,” answered the stranger, “ Is Soap—
S-o-p-e, S-o-u-p-e, 8-0 0 p, Soap, and don’t you
forget It.” The Cholera said he hoped he might be
struck political if he ever would, and he has kept
his word, for he has shunned the stranger ever
since.
“ Human depravity ” is the title of an
interesting correspondence now going on in the
Argus. We derive all our bad qualities from the
beasts which we resemble, and of which more than
a touch remains in our natures. Had we come
down from the angels we should have been angelic,
but rising from the beasts, as we have done, we
carry something of our ancestry in our blood.
This breaks out occasionally, and we then show
what we really are. The dog, we know, also shows
indications of his wild-dog origin. Getting tired
of the house and the carpets, of the good “ grub ”
found for him, and of the warm kennel, we miss
him for days at a time. On returning, he is found
to be haggard, dissipated-looking, ragged, and
dirty. He has been “on the burst” and “the
spree,” showing the depravity of his animal
nature, and helping to reconcile us to ours.
Writes a correspondent“ The bush about
Cobar (N.S.W.), though neither dense nor intricate,
counted two lost men a week ago. On Monday a
man was found dead about a mile and a-half from
the gate of Coronga Downs run. His name is
unknown. On Sunday another man was found
dead in the paddock at Booroondara. He lay quite
dose to the fence and was without hat or boots.
His name was John H. Richards, and his father
officiates as Church of England pastor in South
Wales. Both cases show how little use a man’s
judgment is once he misses his way in the Aus-
tralian bush. Eaoh of these must have trudged
for days. It is not unlikely that Richards came
to that fence several times, and each time started
from it assured of making a straight traok to
safety. He was bound, however, to wend round
unconsciously in a circle. So with the unknown
man. This is noteworthy in the case of all puz-
zled pedestrians. Nearly all men step longer with
the right leg than with the left. In time, therefore,
a circle is described about the limb of shorter
stride. A foreigner in a city where all were deaf
and dumb would make circles as well as the lost
man in the western wilds.”—[We don’t think much
of this theory. How is it that a lost man who is
on horseback will also describe a circle ? Are
horses right-handed in their legs too ?—Ed. B.]
Young Australia is developing in various
ways. The Udiversity does not get all the talent.
A youthful Australian of 13. named Ballantyne,
objected, and probably with reason, to having a
Btepfather. He resolved to remove the obstacle,
and did so with a shot-gun which he borrowed
from a neighbour as “for his stepfather.” The
lender did not take in that the contents only were
intended for that new-made relative of the bor-
rower. The grim little humorist returned the
gun thinking it had done its business, and his step-
father's also, but the charge of shot is likely not to
prove fatal, as he expected. A girl of 18 has been
taken forcibly from her situation by her parents,
the magistrate deciding that they had absolute
oontrol over her until she was 21. It took all the
force of both father and mother to get this obstro-
polous maiden into a waggonette, and “ so home ”
—»s old Pepys would write. It is to be hoped that,
when got home, she will not be so ill-treated as
Mrs. Kelly has been by her only son. This dutiful
child has been sent to trial for keeping his mother
in a wild-beast state within barred doors and win-
dows. Unwashed, half-fed, and wholly unoared
for, the poor old woman has been for years con-
fined in a way likely enough to produce the state
of mania she was wrongly alleged to be suffering
from.
California has many wonderful products,
but surely none so marvellous as a fish that has the
power of inflating itself like a balloon. A San
Francisco paper tells a sad story about a crane
that swallowed one of those fish in a collapsed
state, but it had not gone 50ft. above the surface
of the lake who a the fish expanded enough to ex-
plode the crane, which went off like the bang of a
gun, after which the fish came lightly down on
the water none the worse for its short ride is the
air. The editor, of course, personally vouohes for
the strict acouraoylof this story. Pass the zither:—
Why should we at such a gnat strain,
When we swallow camels daily,
Sure they tell the truth of that orane,
Though the story’s rather “ Whaley
“ Like a whale,” you understand us;
Much that story one resembles,
Sceptic, Infidel, please brand us
If we say that man dissembles;
If we whisper that his story,
Like history, is somewhat doubtful,
Cover him with gleaming glory,
For of truth he’s just about full.
But—and mark us —do you gamble,
Half-a-crown quite gladly we’d owe,
Betting that on its last ramble,;
That crane picked up our lost torpedo.
Touohiug the supposed Portuguese vessel
which was seized by the Custom authorities at
Cooktown the other day on an alleged charge of
piracy, the real facts of the case show that the
matter has been somewhat unduly mixed. Im-
primis, the bold pirate is not a Portuguese trader
at all, but belongs to a Melbourne man, Mr. T. G.
Leslie, Secretary of the Brighton Gas Company.
She was despatched last March to the South Seas
on a pearling and beche-de-mer expedition. Pre-
vious to this she was known as a British craft, the
Albert, but at the time the war scare was on, the
owner, to secure her against possible capture by a 1
Russian cruiser, went to the Portuguese Consul in
Melbourne and requested that the vessel might be
allowed to run under the flag of Portugal. After
some demur on the Consul’s part this was at length
agreed to. The difficulty remained that the
nationality of the vessel could not be altered so
long as she belonged to a British subject, and a
dummy sale was therefore effected to Mr. Carlos
Straus, of the Patent office, who is a Portuguese
subject. The necessary proceedings being then
settled, she sailed for the Bouth Seas, flying the
Portuguese flag. Then came the news of the out-
rages and her subsequent seizure at Cooktown.
Now the case is to be investigated in Melbourne,
where the owner will be called upon to answers
charge of fraud for transferring the vessel in the
manner described, the craft being liable, under
these circumstances, to be forfeited to the
Crown.
A Melbourne correspondent writes us:—
“The Trades Unions are going to govern us all
sooner or later. The leaders of these organisa-
tions should, however, remember that a * trade ’
means a calling of skilled labour—something to
which an apprenticeship has to be served. The
’bus-drivers should have minded that also when
making their abortive strike last August. The
wharf-labourers of Melbourne will go near to
making a similar blunder, I opine. What skill is
wanted ia putting cargo into a ship or taking it
out at the wharf-side ? We did all that ourselves
when landing here 33 years ago—and we could do
it again at a pinch. The strike of the wharf-
labourers is only helping to swell emigration to
Viotoria, whioh may thus get its million of inhabi-
tants before N.S W. does. Fifty labourers are
coming from Adelaide, and 200 more- from New
Zealand, thus illegitimately helping to win the
race for a million between the two colonies. It
looks like a ‘put-dp thing’ in this aspect.”
But we don’t blame the wharf labourer for trying
to get as good pay as possible. A wharf-labourer’s
physioal strength whioh must be great to
enable him to toil, is his only capital. He
does not enjoy steady employment, and some-
times has very heavy work at Bight. Not
one man out of 50 is allowed by Nature
to handle hundredweight and two hundredweight
burdens with impunity day after day and year
after year. The man who does this can often be
seen at the hospital very sick and without a cent
in his pocket, He tells the surgeon that he has
" strained himself,” Then the end soon oomes.
To Sir H P .
How soon the world's deceived by noise and show!
Alas! how different to pretend and know.
Like some poor highway brook, pretence runs
loud ;
Rustling, but shallow, dirty, weak and proud.
Whilst, like some nobler stream, true knowledge
glides,
Silently strong, and its deep bed still hides.
A.H.T.
They are beginning to cry for a National
Bank in Adelaide. Most of the depression ever
there is attributed to the fact that monetary insti-
tutions have possession of nearly all the title-
deeds of the land. O wners can neither release nor
get further advances. Stagnation like the pre-
sent, continued for any length of time, will be as
ruinous to the banks as to their debtors. So far,
the banks won’t see that, and the cry fora bank
that will take in the whole situation appears to
have reason in it. One of the worst features in
the financial condition of Adelaide is that few of
the direotors of the loc U hanking companies are
identified by residenoe with the interests of the
oolony. Three have no local directors whatever,
A new way to pay old debts has been
invented by Alexander M‘£night, an extensive
owner of property in Edinburgh. One of his
tenants, a young man named Hutton, being back-
ward in his payments, the old man invited him to
oall at his house. Hutton, suspecting nothing,
did so, when Mac proceeded to read a “chapter,’*
which dwelt chiefly on the necessity of self-disoip-
line, and the advantages of early castigation. This
preliminary over, he invited his tenant to strip
and kneel down at a chair. Hutton’s clothes
being very shabby, he fancied that Ms landlord
intended to present him with a new suit, and was
about to preface his induction into the new gar-
ments with prayer; he consequently complied
with this singular request. He was immediately
seized by M‘Knight, who bound him to the chair,
and commenced to use a small cane most vigor-
ously about his nether parts, Hutton being at first
too much surprised to resist. However, not being
altogether satisfied with this application of Scrip-
ture-teachiog to even day use, he, after a struggle,
succeeded in escaping. Hi 3 next step was to pull
M'Knight before a magistrate, by whom the
defendant was fined 20s. and costs, his liberal
Biblical quotations notwithstanding. As the fine
was so small, it is however likely that the magis-
trate was influenced to some extent by the plead-
ing of the defendant. It does not appear that the
flogger invited the floggee to partake of
“ whusky ” either before or after the castigation.
Here his system differs from that legalised in
N.S.W. Possibly he considered that in his pre-
liminary exhortation he administered sufficient
spiritual stimulant to render the use of an aloo-
hollc pick-me-up unnecessary. We recommend
this story to the “ flogging Governments ” of the
colonies. A chaplain attends criminals on the
scaffold, why should not a clerical gentleman also
prepare the minds of those about to be flogged ?
The reading of judiciously-selected passages of
Holy Writ might seem to lend Divine authority to
the proceedings and place them under the direct
patronage of Providence.
During the war with Peru, when most of
the able-bodied Chilian males were mustered to
defend their 'artbs and ’omes, it was Imperative
upon the authorities that girls should be employed
as check-takers on the tram cars. They were so
employed. Let u 3 quote from the Chilian
Mill “ They are usually girls from 20 to 25,
dressed in natty uniforms and jaunty Panama
hats and white pinafores. Consequently it is not
surprising that street-ear riding has become a
popular amusement with young men about
town.” Quite so, we can easily imagine how the
pinaforelwould fetch the boys. Lord bless us, we
too, were young once. There is a joke concealed
in the above line. It is hermetically concealed.
We will give an order on Kirby for a gilt-edged
coffin for the solver who can solute the same.
And now we shall sing. Pass the foghorn, James,
sound G. All sing:—
Riding on the tramway,
Happy, gay, and free,
Ridlog on the tramway,
That’s the game for me.
The modest sum of threepence
Is all you have to pay,
For doing the la-de-da-di
On the new tramway.
When our Mary drives the engine.
And Dora takes the checks,
We are happy (as we should be).
What should then our spirit vex.
And ’twill solve the curious problem
How to make “them engines” pay
When they put some she-conducfcors
On the Sydney new tramway.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the purest and safest
medical stimulant that can be taken by enfeebled
invalids.
Sweet Auburn, loveliest village of the plain,
Where health and plenty cheer the laboring swain,
la not more sweet nor beautiful than those
Tweed suits you see at Summerfleld and Co.’s.*
Here is Bummer upon us, causing a mighty
thirst. Don’t fail to obtain your s apply of Lemon-
ade, Seltzer, Soda Water, Ginger Ale, Tonic, Potass
and Lithia Water (for Gout), of Dalm and Oertel,
iErated Water and Cordial Manufacturers, 403 Pitt-
street. Delivered regularly in town and suburbs.*
Happiness seoured by removing from your
homes all things distasteful to tne sight, and re-
placing them with the world’s art woras in china
and glass. Enjoy your meals, the social circle
beautiiy f |attd make attractive every room, by pur*
ehasing your crockery—as it is generally ealled-
at4o2 and 404 George-street, commonly known as
Bray’s.*
Mb. Db Oouboy Browns (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New Sou*h
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Mineral,” Mining Expert, Arbitrator, Adviser,
and Mining Titles Agent, Beresford Chambers,
52 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.*
THE SECRET OF SUCCESS.
Drink, my friends, St Louis Beer
Will oheer the youth and maid:
No better beer, you need not fear,
And it’s always good for trade.
He who would rake the money in
When trade begins to rise,
Which soon it will, must now begin,
You must advertise.*
Unpleasant dreams and general unrest
do not trouble persons who are wiso enough to
use Wolfe’s Schnapps. h


Glticura
.Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
PROM
id-;
O)
Scrofula on Neckw
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
r\TRPIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
D tioS Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
ficalv. Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
li tic 'Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
-r , )Sg 0 f Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
cSticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier
internally, and Cuticuba and Cuticuba SOAP, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, washerwoman s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticuba Soap and a single application or
Cuticuba, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticuba Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skm,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the KE-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consui, which
reneat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood,
have been obliged to shun public places hy reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until 1 used the Cuticuba. Remedies
which have cured me, and left my skm and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.
Australian Consignees,
B. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
GUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
ana rerspirauuu ul an ““7,^
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Henco
j&iemems, auu iauo inuuioo , ~
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Sea p of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skimand Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 60 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura ohav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
Uever Travel It-
"Wanted in Every House.
FLEAS FLIES,BEETLES MOSOUIT
COCKROACHES SF c SA c AND
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESS TO BIROS
FOWLS OROTHER'
ANIMALS
4>r«
,m
m
SOLD!
PbyALL CHEMISTS,
MD STOREKEEPERS|
WHOLESALE
FELTON-GRIMWADEV.C®
Wanted in Every House,
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
MEWS
CARINGTON
158 Phillip Street,
LIVERY, BAIT, and_COMMISSION STABLES.
w,»ridiner Orders punctually attended to.
T?™?rin-hand Brakes, Landaus, Buggies, and
Baddle Horses on biro at the shortest notice.
J. BOOTH & CO.,
PrmrrietorS.
AMHOODi RESTORED I
A Clerrynuin harir
forth* CURE of’
ring tried every known rated]
„ i Wl w<
TION, PREMATURE DECAY, Ac- line ■*
lut discovered a simple SELF-CURE, whioh,f*f
6h* *»ke of suffering humanity, he will send FREE
the Prescription which CURED him. Address.
irith seJf-addreesod Btampedenvelope—
Dr. K. A. CLARKE. P.O. Box SM. Sydnw
W. WALKER and SONS,
LONDON and SYDNEY.
Catalogues
POST JBBB.
W. WALKER
and SONS
are one of the
Largest
Stockholder*
and
Mamtfattwrm
of
Higk>glau
FURNITURE
■NGLAND.
mm
—■
m
Catalogues
POST FRBB.
ALL STOCK
In tkelf
SYDNEY
iouii
la
Supplied
OIBBOf
trom tk*lf
Lwritoa
Mamtiaotoxf
and Latest
London Jltyloo
GUXRi.WT*»n
BYDNBY BRANCHI:
81 CLARENCE STREET. WYNYABD BQIBABE.
YANKEE DOODLE
DOOOif
a 'XSQH&SO^
VSYONK
conqueror
TWIST & PLUG
toR
TOBAC CO
* am norsese the largest Factory, Manufacture more
DIXSOH ft SOWS, Sydney, 5 obacco, and consume more American Leaf
tba^ y yANKSB n DO e ODLE, e CON e QUEROR,' Sir Koger, Champion, and Plxson’s Cut Tobaccos.
I&SC .
tfMetsrien
r pL
a '
Pf
3^Sn
WILLIAM BULLARD baa the Largest Stook
of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Keces, Dances, &o.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, fee,
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, so.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues can be had gratis on appliea-
Stationery.— Account Books, Letter and Note
engSved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
a Murders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parceiS,
fil noward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums? Purses, CardCasea.Hand Bags, Fan*. &0 *
Music and Books bound in any ■tom, cheap*
Christmas and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock.
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zi rj|n and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever invented. The x
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes oft 70 splendid copies.
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
842 GEORGE STREET.
Fills
The Great Liver Remedy.
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral subftane*
are the popular medicinei of thei nineteenth cen-
tury : so simple, yet most effective ; they 68n be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex*
nenienee They overcome the worst form of
diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys!
I have yet to hear that they have net afforded
immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is lin-
ed ualled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Rnldhv all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E.'Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge: Cemet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of epudous and wnHMess imitations.
None genuine unless bearing t h -■ and Wldress
of the only maker,
vgmtjMm****
T ,i ■narn. G-lOSS
all the most
and Elegant
DESIGNS.
American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
miskM.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
m.
SPECIALLY IMPORTED FOR CITY OR COUNTRY USB
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY,
AT
LOWEST PRICES.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
ts~ EVEEY VEHICLE GUARANTEED


Over the Sticks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
* There are two in the race," said the trainer, to-
day—
That bay horse of Johnson’s and Dick Allen's
_ grey,
Keep on the bay's quarter, he’s reckoned a
, snorter;
And mind that grey Norma don’t get far away.
You go straight when the flag falls, and sail to
the front,
But keep pace in the msrefor the ‘heel of the
hunt’;
They can pass if inclined to, those two give
your mind to;
Let the bay force the running and bear the first
brunt.
“ I’ll be down at the turning, the second time
round,
Should I hold my right hand up get over the
ground;
If you’re there with bay Plantar, you’ll win
in a canter.
There’s the ‘ Go to the post,”’ as the ball gave
its sound.
“ Now, good-bye, keep your head cool, and mind
what I say—
Let the bay try the hurdles, you keep wilh the
grey;
Make a run from the starter, they'll all travel
smarter,
You can fall back when most of the ruck get
away.”
' At the post Winter kept us five minutes or
more,
Then the ll«g fell, and off dashed the coloured
half-score;
On my black Nora mounted, the moments I
counted,
Then from out the crush sailing I went to the
fore.
How my black Irish beauty jumped at the word
, “go”;
I raced hard at the hurdles (the first one was
low),
Like a deer she bounced over, scarce marking
the clover,
Then I took a pull at her—it riled her I know.
Like a flash Norma passed uS, hay Planter dashed
by,
And The Dutchman and Rocket bard held caught
my eye;
J rode just aB the ruck did, strode strong as
. The Buck did,
He was sneaking a point to get by “ on the sly.’
The Shat mile was done quickly, a cracker the
paee,
Though each nag kept his feet In that half of the
race?
With a crash went a hurdle, I don’t speak a
word ill,
But bad riding stopped Rocket from getting a
plaee.
1 got through where the gap was, and just at the
bend.
The Buck struck on the hurdles, rolled end over
end;
Young Dick Thornton was under, net hurt for
a wonder—
He was up ere the crowd its assistance could
lend.
The grey mare and bay Planter were making
, their run,
1 was lyiog back waiting and watchirig the fun;
At the turn, as he stated, Dick’s signal I waited,
When I got it she sped like a shot from a gun.
But three clear lengths lu front Skylark clouted
the sticks,
And The Dutchman came down like a dray-load
of bricks;
Though he just put his toes on, he landed his
nose on,
Broke his neck, and I parsed as he gave his last
kicks.
Then I raced to the leaders and started for home*
For my beauty but waited the ashing to come;
When we challenged old Planter, he answered
instanter,
And grey Norma “ ’mid Homans proved worthy
of Rome.”
But two hurdles to fly ere the straight run was
Bide by sid’e we crossed one like a triplet of deer,
Our silks interblended, the race nearly ended,
We could hear from the stand the dense multi-
tude cheer.
We were riding as men do when riding to win,
Our heads cool, our hands steady, no flutter
within;
Each one waiting his chances, as forward he
glances,
Bre he drives the hooks deep in his thorough-
bred’s skin.
But ten yards from the hurdle we strode stride
for stride,
H would give half my life could I now have that
ride);
The Stand darkly looming, the hoarse voices
booming.
Like the roar on the rocks of the inooming life.
I could hear the crowd shouting, “ThB grey
mare’s ahead,”
Though I knew at that moment my black Nora
fed;
*• Old Planter must win it, there’s nothing ehe
in it,”
But crash into the hurdle hay Planter dropped
dead.
‘Then but Nora and Norma were left in the
straight,
And the whips whistled sharp as we dashed past
the gate;
At the distance-post racing, ’twas lightni»g
speed pacing.
Though I felt my black beauty was stopped by
the weight.
At my stirrup was Norma, neck out and head
down,
And I saw on the face of her rider a frown;
He rode like a master, I could not stride faster,
And I thought, on the post, he would just wear
me down.
But I called to my beauty, and cheered and
laughed gay,
For I knew she was doing her best all the way ;
The whip was now idle—the band of her bridle
Just was clear on the post of the head of the
grey.
That one day and victory still dwells in my heart,
Though I’m not as I then was—neat, limber, and
smart;
Fortune treated me sadly, my mare she used
badly,
For black Nora now runs in a fish-hawker's cart.
Lines supposed to be written after the
death of fiir George Grey, K.G.8., about
the year 1920.
[Fort The Bulletin.]
A man he was to all New Zealand dear,
Her greatest statesman ne, tor many a year;
Boldly he strove the people s wrongs to right,
And stem the growing tide of selfish might.
Determined ever bravely to withstand
The selfish crew who stole the people’s land.
Egregious race, long;cursed in every clime,
Whose doom he prophesied in words sublime;
For land monopoly, though now a crime,
Was thsn a lawful business of the time.
Greater than Grey, the people’s ohampion true,
Ne’er since his day our fair Zealandia knew,
His matchless eloquence entranoed the crowd,
And Fame her trumpet blew before him loud.
In vain his foes, with spite and envy stung,
Yelped out their malice, curlike, at his heel;
Justice and Truth were ever on his tongue,
His only care the people’s woe or weal.
Knightly his bearing, pure in word and deed
Was he, without one taint of selfish greed.
Loved he his country well, his new-found land.
Twin isles, sea girt, with lakes and rivers grand;
Mountains sublime, capped with eternal snow,
And fertile vales, green smiling, far below,
New Zealand height—now grown a mighty state,
Thanks to the wisdom of her statesmen great.
O’er all her fertile plains pure breezes blow,
And peace and plenty all her people know ;
Progressing still in every skilful art,
To please the eye and to enthral the heart.
Queenly she reigns, Pacific seis among.
Where many poets have her praises sung.
Bests here her patriot, for his work is o’er,
His aged form we now shall see no more ;
Still is the voice, and mute the lips that long
(With words more eloquent than poet’s song)
Taught such grand lessons, both to riclrand poor—
Lessons that shall for ages long endure.
Useful and glorious was the life he led
From early youth, until his snowy head
Victorious rose above his hundredth year,
And then he calmly, sweetly, passed away,
When his life’s work was finished. Shed no tear,
But strew these wild flowers on his sdent tomb.
Xerxes wept much a century’s work to trace,
When all his mighty host had met their doom.
Yet one more name wili men for long revere,
That name is thine, renowned, immortal Grey,
Zephyrs sweep gently o’er thy resting place.
A. S.
Wellington, N.Z.
J, TURNER ROBINSON & Cv.’*
TAILORING EHTABLISHMENT,
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-street,
Established 1861,
HAS THE LARGEST AMD BEST-ASSORTED
BTOOK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS
t3P~ Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk:, and a perfect fit
guaranteed.
QUOD FACIMUS YALDE FACIMUS.
(What we do we do well.)
4
TOUR PHOTO-If you are
undecided where to fro to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ac-
cept what is but well-meant
counsel, and pay first a visit to
the vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can inspect an
arrayof portraiture, not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co., which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost universal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as potographers.
Prices-C-D-V.,; Cabinets* 80s. per dozen.
CREELMAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, SYDNEY ARCADE.
REMEMBER THIS,
IF YOU ARE SIOK.
If you are sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else fails.
If you are comparatively well, but feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any of the numerous
diseases of stomach or bowels, it is
your own fault if you remain ill, for
American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will find a “Balm
in Gilead ” in the use of American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of malarial,
epidemic, bilious and intermittent
fevers—by the use of American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, American HOP
BITTERS will give you fair skin, rich
blood, the sweetest breath, health, and
comfort. In short, they cure ALL
Diseases of the Stomach, Bowels,
Blood, Liver, Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
JBSOO
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
American Hop Bitters, costing but a
trifle.
Will you let them suffer?
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
American Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doe-
tors’ bills to pay.
See if the name of Dr. Soule Is blown
In every bottle, If not It Is counterfeit.
Irf BALL S
v r**. >
--: 1 \
~ . f
••' v
> m
m
mi
m
x
“ Mr. William Ball.—Dear Sir,—Allow me to say
that I find your ‘ Bloom of Peaches ’ superior to
anything of the kind that I ever used before.—
Tours truly, Emelie Melville.”
“ Dear Sir,—l have never used anything equal to
your * Bloom of Peaches.’— Maggie Moobb.”
“ Dear Sir,—l have the greatest pleasure in re-
commending Mr. Ball’s ‘Bloom of Peaches’ and
‘Fett-Puder’ as being invaluable.—Yours truly,
Alice Bees.”
To be obtained of all chemists,
Prioe, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
“ FETT-PUDER,” a delicate and invisible
powder for the face. Beautifully perfumed.
White, Pink, or Cream, to suit all complexions.
Price, 1/6 per box.
Manufactured only by
WILLIAM BALL,
The "Professional” and Pharmaceutical Chemist.
61 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE,
Wholesale Agents for Sydney :
Messrs. E. PROSSER & CO., Wholesale Chemists
m
M
> ' •-
m.
• v i!
ViriUHftflL
LIMITED,
356 George-slregt,
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
FIANOI, OBGANB
and
MUSIC
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EASY TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues & Prices on Application.
W. H. PALING & Co.
356 George-street, Sydney.
4f-5‘ES
Q0. $374,!
ﬂ; ‘~ iii-12:00
a x 2:?”-
o? Hm \«fo
n.\f*€§$i?‘¢ an
F’ Ifgﬁ‘éﬁx ,7“ I)- m ,
'53 _'¢,“\ ﬂ oz
gé‘t‘ga/d dﬂ '5?
0g 69
3 9L?
BULL DOG ALB.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling', healthful, refreshing, and thirst-
quenching properties of this worid-renowned
Bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Kot)ert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALE, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTELL & CO.,
Sole Agents.
DR. THOMAS
may be consulted on
Nervous Debility, Skin and Contagious Affections.
Medical Establishment, 203, Elizabeth-street,
near Bathurst-street.
Hours : 9 till 10 daily.
Dr. Thomas is the only medical man advertising
In Australia who has passed the degrees of an Eng-
lish Physician and Surgeon. Examinations passed
—Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians,
London, 1884; Member of the Royal College of
Surgeons, London, 1859.
mo Country Journalists.—Leaders, Telegrams,
JL and Sydney Letters, supplied by competent
literary man of long experience, on moderate
terms. “ Beta,” Bulletin Office.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S
BISCUITS ill USES, TEEACIE ill SOLDEI STRIP,
Self-raising /Erafed Fleur, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
FOR SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.
8. & A, have obtained First Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney 1.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-4,
Sydney Agents s W. H. ARIELL ft CO., 343 and 348 Seat-street.


<*n6j Uf POJOJ.B9H
IWA A JnoßjA pup pooyuvi
liaNvsnoHl ox nooq v
«w<
ft'
fame, inU tfiftbllnfe tell U
•r four quantitiw in hr jls. (if hy
GREAT REMEDY!
RORH s
SANATIVE Pll I S
tasrar?aiMjßSftg^
Liv«f Complaint*, Rhtudattwn, Gsut, scorbutte
jCitivrttM, Skin EropUon*, iftd *ll C ~
ijHtm. TivU a«v.r-6d I*4 roAUy *
jllll of life to tk» Mealy *ft* *Jt*d •
•JSStPS.X
trV*,
Messrs
jfi 00
As 4 *»»y k« W
.mr* sxt
Met
&CO.,
f nwsTitlM£
Mil B»n,
its. &
sawfsri^^Biiwsaa
Oolohloo, on rseelpt of l*o»t Offeo Orior or ftotopo.
MOULTON
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MtrULTON’S
FRUIT PILL?. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures an I ns
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit)
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price Is. 3d.
0. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor :
PILLS
LI
O
TONI
NERVINE
TRADE MARK-“ TONIC NERVINE.”
tk BA.JTM, OJBKTAIN, & SPEEDY CURJBIO? Ner-
Jpk. vous and General Debility, and all complaints
mat spring- from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss oi
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
®c. By its tonic and soothing effects it at once
removes all craving for Alcohol. By its richness
in phosphorous ana other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL B TONIC NERVINE nour-
ishes and gives vigour to the whole system.
Price, is. 6d., or 265. a case Bold everywhere.
Proprietors. MARSHALL BROTHERS Registered
Chemiste, 104 6 Market-sfc., Sydney. N.8.-AU imi
tations Illegal. TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
I
ECONOMICALFURNITURSmf ECONOMICALFURNITURE
/
t// / i
iW THE LARGEST AND ONLY LEGITIMATE
TIME-PAYMENT FURNITURE WARE-
HOUSE IN THE COLONY,
:65 PITT STREET.
m
EBIu
o
Vfft
NTRITIQUS;
retawd an
All#
ARE#;
7'Seti mn
iQtr 2 oozß0 T TLES,
'&&&»* 0 ARNO* C r
Rev. Father Wilds’
EXPERIENCE.
The Rev. Z. P. Wilds, well-known city
missionary in New York, and brother
of the late eminent Judge Wilds, of the
Massachusetts Supreme Court, writes
as follows:
“78 E. 54 th St., New TorJe, May 16,1882.
Messrs, J. C. Ayer & Co., Gentlemen :
Last winter I was troubled with a most
uncomfortable itching humor affecting
more especially my limbs, which itched so
intolerably at night, and burned so intense-
ly, that I could scarcely bear any clothing
over them. I was also a sufferer from a
severe catarrh and catarrhal cough; my
appetite was poor, and my system a good
deal run down. Knowing the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, by observation of
many other cases, and from personal use
in former years, I began taking it for the
above-named disorders. My appetite im-
proved almost from the first dose. After
a short time the fever and itching were
allayed, and all signs Of irritation of the
skin disappeared. My catarrh and cough
were also cured by the same means, and
my general health greatly improved, until
it is now excellent. I feel a hundred per
cent stronger, and I attribute these results
to the use of the Sarsaparilla, which
I recommend with all confidence as the
best blood medicine ever devised. I took
it in small doses three times a day, and
used, in all, less than two bottles. I place
these facts at your service, hoping their
publication may do good.
, Yours respectfully, Z. P. WILDS.”
The above instance is bpt one of the many
constantly coming to our notice, which prove
the perfect adaptability of Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla to the cure of all diseases arising
from impure or impoverished blood, and a
weakened vitality.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
cleanses, enriches, and strengthens the blood,
stimulates the action of the stomach and
bowels, and thereby enables the system to
resist and overcome the attacks of all Scrofu-
lous Diseases, Eruptions of the Skin, Rheu-
matism, Catarrh, General Debility, and all
disorders resulting from poor or corrupted
blood and a low state of the system.
PREPARED BY
Dr. J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists; price $l, six bottles
for $5.
99"
AYER’S
CATHARTIC
PILLS. 3
Best Purgative Medicine
cure Constipation, Indigestion, Headache, and
all Bilious disorders.
Sold everywhere. Always reliable.
ELLIOIT BROS, and 8. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
CONTINUED SUCCESS
OF
RILEY BROTHERS’
ORIGINAL
£5 ERAPEHY BALES !
PACKED in CANVAS, and INSURED against
LOSS.
BT Carriage paid by mail all over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
The £5 Bale system has been in operation for 12
?ears, during which time we have despatched over
orty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe,
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
£5 LADY’S BALE.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
f pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
of good longcloth, and
nicely trimmed. If de-
sired, other articles may
be ordered instead of
any of the above.
£1 MOURNING BALE.
25 yds. Blk. French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 doz. Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
|1 Lady’s Bonnet
fc 1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
©LOVES.
On receipt of 3a. in
stamps, we send, post
free, a pair of 2 or 4-
button kid or silk Gloves
any size or colour, good
quality and fasbionable.
For accouchements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Robe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £5
15s.
We send, carriage free,
a Lady’s New Accouche-
ment Belt for fifteen
shillings, or a pair of best
NursiDg Stays for ten
shillings.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over hr 'i lady of great experience, and
be happy to lorward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials-Silks, Velvets, &c.—with
instruction for self-measurement,
RILEY BROTHERS,
165 Oxford Street, Sydney,
Originators of the celebrated £5 Bales of Dr a per 7
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL pre-
serve s, strengthens, and beautifies the hair: it
contains no lead or mineral ingredients, and can
now be also had in a golden colour, which is
especially suited for fair or golden-haired children
and persons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a most
cooling, healing, and refreshing wash for the face,
bands and arms, and is perfectly free from any
mineral or metallic admixtures; it disperses
freckles tan, prickly heat, rednees, pimples, &o.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OP TYRE
produces immediately a perfect change in red or
grey hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a glossy and
permanent brow* or black, which colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Howlands’
articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bros ,
E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
Everybody i 1
should use r
FEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IS MADE FBOM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
BSI »eor*e-street, Sydney*
m*
OTUDY BCONOMT
S 3 and
Hay e your U mbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
£4l George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match eos-
tume*. Banahra neatly ti»
eutefp
NNUAL CHRISTMAS FESTIVAL.
PE APES and SHAW
invite special attention to their large assortmen t rf
FANCY ARTICLES, SUITABLE FOR
PRESENTATION.
They comprise aimost
EVERY CONCEIVABLE ARTICLE OF LUXURY
PEAPES & SHAW’S
ELEGANT
ARTICLES
for
PRESENTATION.
' Ladies’ Hand Bags, with
and without fittings
The largest stock of beau-
tiful Fans in the city
Scent Caskets, Boudoir
Nicnacs
' Card Cases, in silver,
I ivory, pearl, and Rus-
sian leather
j Purses, Memo. Tablets,
[ Pocket Books
Cabinet and Carte-de-
Yisite Screens
Photo. Cases, Photo.
Frames, Albums
i Pocket Mirrors, Tourists’
I Cases, Writing Cases,
Writing Desks
Fitted Dressing Cases
1. and Bags, &o.
PICNIC LUNCHEON BABKETS,
all sizes.
HILDEGARDE,
the new game of cricket for ladies.
PARLOUR. FIELDTand LAWN GAMES,
in great variety.
PBAPBB & SHAW’S
GRAND
ASSORTMENT
of
TOYS and GAMES.
f Lawn Tennis Sets, Cricket
Croquet ditto,
Ringolette, James the
Janitor, Parlour Skit-
tles, Toys for the liWle
ones, Solitaires, Ger-
man Tactics.
-{ Mechanical Toys, Horses,
Dog®, Cows, Sheep, Rab-
bits, Monkeys, Rooking
Horses, &c., &c.
Work Baskets, WfFrk
Boxes, Combination
Boxes of Games, Com-
[ bination Boxes of Tors.
DOLLS, DOLLS, DOLLS, LOVELY DOLLS.
BOY DOLLS, GIRL DOLLS, BABY DOLLS
TALKING DOLLS, CRYING DOLLB,
LAUGHING DOLLS, SLEEPING DOLLS.
JUST OPENED,
the
NEW CARINGTON SQUARE-SHAPED
PARASOLS.
COME AND SEE THEM.
They are the Fashionable Novelty of thfe Day!
324, 326, 328 G-eorge -rtreet.
Qo
*,
NERVOUS DEBILITY,
Lost Vitality, &c.~A simple and positive
means of Self-Cure, by an eminent
French Hospital Physician- Sent Free
Medico, P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
SOMETHING- NEWT
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC HAIR CURLER
£3
TO I
AND
TOOTH BRUSH'.
Ladies or Gentlemen who wish to quickly and
fashionably dress, crimp or curl the hair, beard
or moustache, by a new method, or to possess
sound, white teeth and rosy gums are invited
to read the brief but interesting descrip-
tion of these new inventions
Dr. SCOTT’S
Electric Appliances are now
sold and well known in
every part of the world
and are guaranteed
fcy the Pan Mall
Electric
Association.
GREAT
ANNOYANCE
has been caused
to all people using
tooth brushes by the
bristles coming out in
the mouth. The Pall
Mall Electric Associ-
ation now take pleasure
in introducing to the Aus-
tralian public a Tooth Brush, which they
guarantee free from this troublesome defect.
The bristles are inserted in the handle by a
patent process, which renders it simply
impossible to come out in use. In ad~
dition to this, the handle of the Brush is
made of a newly invented material perma-
nently charged with an electro-magnetic
current, which acts without any shock
immediately upon the nerves and tissues
of the teeth and gums. The act of
brushing causes this current to flow
into the nerve cells and roots of
the teeth, and, like water poured
upon a plant, it invigorates and
vitalizes e\»ery part, arresting
decay, building up and re-
storing the natural white-
ness of the enamel and
quickly producing
healthful, rosy-
coloured gums.
The handle is strong,
beautifully polished,
not affected by acids,
Impervious to
moisture, and free
from that un-
pleasant musty
odour exu-
ding from
wet hone
handles.
THE
PALL MAUL
Electric
ASSOC/A TIOt?
Now offer to the Aus-
tralian public their new
Electric Hair, Beard &
Moustache Curler. It
is a handsome artiele, nickel-
plated, with an ebonized handle, and it
should occupy a place in the toilet of
every lady and gentleman in Australia,
By its aid, the hair, beard, or moustache
can be curled in any desired style in from
one to two minutes. For ladies, it produces
the “ Langtry Style,” the “ Patti Bang,” the
“Montague Curl,” and any other styles
desired by ladies wearing their hair in the
fashionable “loose and fluffy” mode.
Those who wear waves or other forms
of artificial hair will find this Electric
Curler a very useful article. It does
not break off and rum the hair,
like the ordinary crimping pro-
cess, and in wet or hot weather
it works as quickly as in cold.
For curling the Moustache
or Beard in a moment, it
has no equal, while it is
so simple in its opera-
tion that any one of
either sex cxa use it
successfully the first
time.
Directions
accompany
each Curler.
I/O motr, Enolaitd.
Dr. Scott, New York.
Yeur “ Crimper and Curler’
■works charmingly. Its eft'ect
causes unirersal admiration.
They are most simple to use. I
consider them worth a guinea apiece
to those who devote much attention to
the ever-changing arrangement of the
Hair. L. LANGTRY.
Carlton Club, London, W.
De. Scott’s " Electric Curler ” curls the Moustache
and Beard most perfectly. My wife use 3 them in
crimping her Hair with pleasing results. Col. D.W.G.
The Royal Dental Society of London testify in the strongest
terms as to the quick benefits following the use of Dr. Scott's
Electric Tooth Brush, and many experts in dentistry declare it to
be the greatest invention in dental appliances since the manufacture
of artificial teeth.
Under Royal
and
Health ensured by using
Dr. Scott’s Beautiful Electric
Corsets, Belts, Electric Hair,
Flesh, and Tooth
or Insoles,
&?EEt
Distinguished
Patronage,
All Goods manufactured
■by Dr. Scott bear this label.
BEWAEE 03?
■WORTHLESS
IMITATIONS*
Trice, 2s, 6d. each, of all chemists and storekeepers; or the two
direct, post free, for 7s.
Remittances can be made by cheque, P. 0.0., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL ELECTEIC ASSOCIATION,
84 Hargaret-sfraat, Sydney.
P.O. BOX, 331.


A TERRIBLE EXPERIENCE.
“ Murder I ” The terrible word rang in “7 ®hrs,
and whirled through my brain, until I thought X
should go raving mad from the mere horror ot
it. “ Murder 1” and a hand was laid on ™7
Shoulder, and a grave voice exclaimed, You are
my prisoner I” Mv heart almost stood still, my
pulse momentarily ceased to beat; the mere
horror of my position came to me with suen
appalling consciousness, that if 1 had actually
committed the deed, I could not have shown more
shrinking, horrified terror. , , .. ,
Let me recall the incidents of that dreadful
night in the order in which they occurred—those
incidents, the memory of which, even now, after
the lapse of months, comes back to me with.a sense
of unconquerable horror and affright.
lam connected with the Sydney Daily News
as a travelling reporter, and as part of my duties,
found myself, almost at a moment’s notice, des-
patched at a late hour of the night to one of the
most important up-country towns, in order to
report on a political meeting that was to be held
there the next day. Directions as to the carrying-
out of m v-task were carefully impressed on me
by the Editor-in-charge, and, according to in-
structions, I set out from the offioe in order to
catch the train leaving at 10 minutes after
midnight. By an awkward mishap my watch had
lost five minutes, and I arrived at the station just
in time to see the train I wished to catch, slowly
moving away. Under these oircumstances, all
that was left to me was to catch the next.
Consulting the time-table, I found that the
next train did not leave until six next morning,
but I knew if I caught (hit I should still have
time to f ulßl the important duty I had been en-
trusted with. How to pass the few intervening
hours was the next question. My home was at
Woollahra, and it was no use entertaining the idea
of returning there for a few hours’ rest. I de-
termined, therefore, to go to an hotel for the
short time that was at my disoosal. The principal
hotel of the neighbourhood I found closed, and
knocking failing to elicit an answer, I left it to
look for another. A light streaming from a par-
tially-closed door attracted my attention, and
looking up, saw that it came from a mediocre-
looking public-house, with "Angsl Hotel painted
across the front. The place did not look invitiDg,
but as the time at my disposal was short, and as
I merely meant to throw myself, dressed as I was.
on the bed and snatch a few hours’ sleep, I entered
and asked if I could be provided with a bed.
The landlord, who appeared himself, answered
in the affirmative, and snowed me into a plainly-
furnished bedroom on the first floor.
"It’s a double-bedded room,” he said, and
there’s a gentleman in the other bed. But he’s
asleep and won’t disturb you.”
The room looked comfortable and clean, and I
was tired to death, and so, impressing on the land-
lord the fact that I wished to bs called at half-past
5 in the morning precisely, I shut the door after
his retreating form, and taking off my outer
garments and placing them on a chair near at
hand, threw myself, half-dressed, on the bed.
I slept soundly, but woke with a start when it
was only half light, my mind full of the idea that
I was on the point of missing the train again.
Looking at my watch, I
found it was barely 5
o’clook ; whilst the silence
that reigned through-out
the house betokened the
fact that nobody was yet
about. It was no use going
tofsleep again, and full of
the idea of the impcrtance
of not missing my train a
second time, I sprang out
of bed and began to dress
myself. On approaching
the dressing-table, I saw
lying on it a silver watch
and chain, together with a
large heap of money—some
of it gold, but the greater
part silver. It evidently be-
longed to the man in the
other bed. He appeared
to be still asleep, and the
bed-clothes seemed to be
heaped somewhat strangely
round him, so as almost to
hide him from view.
Wondering at the care-
lessness that could leave
so much money at the
mercy of any chance per-
son who might happen to
enter, as I was about to
leave the room I thought I
would venture to give him
a word of warning as to
the chance of getting his
property stolen. The cor-
ner in which his bed was
situated was darker than the part of the room
whioh I had occupied and which was lighted by
the window; so that I could see nothing but the
bare outline of the man on the bed.
Placing my hand on his shoulder, I gave him a
gentle shake. He moved heavily under mv hand,
but without seeming to waken. Bending down in
the semi-obscurity for the purpose of seeing
whether he was drunk—which seemed to be the
ease _l saw that which caused me to utter a cry of
horror and start back, terror-stricken, from the
man was dead, with his throat cut almost
from ear to ear 1
I was so paralysed by this terrible discovery that
my blood seemed to freeze in my veins. I put my
hand to my forehead with a feeling of unutterable
horror, but a certain clamminess in its touch
caused me to take it away again with irrepressible
loathing. It was red with blood from contact with
the gory shirt of the dead man. Looking down,
I saw with affright that I was standing in a pool of
blood, that had dripped from the pendent cover-
let. At this horrible discovery my terror became
all the more overpowering, and starting back in
unutterable horror, I rushed madly from the room.
There was nobody about, and I plunged wildly
down the narrow stairs and into a small parlour,
the door of which stood ajar. Palling almost un-
conscious on to the sofa, I buried my face in my
hands, trying to banish the terrib e pioture of the
blood-stained corpse upstairs It hat thrust itself
before my gaze. Gradually my mind became more
composed, and I in a measure recovered from
the first overmastering horror the discovery had
aroused in me. ...
The man was dead; my glance, brief as it was,
bad shewn me that. In all probability he had been
dead some hours. But whether it was a case of
murder or suicide, I knew nothing about it, abso-
lutely nothing. A neighbouring clock striking
hai f-past five suddenly reminded me of my mission.
Mv thoughts all at once underwent an entire
revolution. If I lost the six o’clock train I should
be too late for the object I had in hand. If I fallen
to send in my report by the specified time, in all
probability I should get dismissed, for I had had
ho business to miss the night train. A wife and
family depended on my exertions; I was bound to
consider them above everything. And supposing
t was actually suspected ef murdering my fellow-
lodrer ? It was possible. I was in the room at the
time—his watch and money might be thought a
tflmotlng bait—the landlord might swear that the
man was alive when he showed me into the room;
Jinder any circumstances, it would mean delay.
a «these disjointed thoughts coursed through my
mind I rose from the sofa, and hesitated between
miking for the front door or alarming the house.
a thought of my delioate wife and three children,
all dependent on me, decided me; and vowing to
in order to quieten my conssienoe, that, on
mywturn to Sydney. I would go boldly to the
authorities, and tell all I knew of the terrible
?ra*edv I softly made my way to the front door,
unlatched it, and stepped into the street. The
fresh morning air revived me wonderfully, and
with one fearful glance round, I walked swiftly
along the deserted street in the direction of the
had not proceeded a hundred yards when
I was conaoious of a hurried step behind me. In
a sudden— almost puerile-burst of unreasoning
fear I broke into a quicker walk, thqn into a run;
but the hurried step behind me oawte nearer and
nearer; and a man, rushing violently against me
threw me down, and then sprang on, top of me.
It was the landlord of the inn. Breathless and
panting, he grasped me by the oollar.
" I’ve got you,” he gasped. “ Gome on back with
me."
With a docility that was born of unreasoning
terror I made no answer. I offered no remark. My
brain whirled with the terror and affright that the
horror of my position aroused in me. Without a
word I accompanied him back to the hotel. With-
out a word I allowed myself to be shut up in the
parlour I had before entered; only when a quar-
ter of an hour later, a stern policeman entered the
room, and, laving his hand heavily on my shoulder
exolaimed: " I arrest you for the murder of the
man upstairs. You are my prisoner;” I turned
blankly round, and fell swooning to the ground.
How the remainder of that terrible day passed
I know not, but at the inquest next morning I
wa« brovght out, the object of the exeoration and
curses of the assembled orowd. My powers of
mind and speech seemed to be entirely numbed at
the horror of my position. Mechanically, I lis-
tened to the evidence; unmeaningly fell question
and answer on my ears. _
The landlord was the chief witness. He deposed
to my having come to the hotel in a state of ex-
citement the night previous to the discovery of
the body—to my having asked for a bed—and to
my having been nut in the same room with the
murdered ,man. He deposed further to the man
having been alive, to the best of his belief, when
he showed me into the room. He swore to seeing
blood on my hands and face and on my clothes,
and to seeing further traces of blood in the par-
lour at the foot of the stairs. He swore to my
having left the house surreptitiously before any
of the inmates were about, to his having pursued
me, and to my having fled when I heard his foot-
steps. He furthermore swore that he was the
first to enter the bedroom after I had left it—that,
coming to wake me at the appointed time m the
morning, he had heard the front door shut at the
very moment when he made the terrible discovery
that the man in the bed in the corner was lying
there with his throat out. The landlord’s evidence
was damning and conclusive.
The policeman, next called, deposed to his hav-
ing been called in at the Angel Hotel at a quarter
to six, that he had there found the body ot a man
with his throat cut, and that the landlord had
aooused me of the murder. He gave evidenoe
that in the execution of his duty he had made
examination of the place. He swore that on tne
bed of the dead man he had found a razor with the
name of the maker (Hockins) engraved on the
blade, and that in the bag of the accused he had
found a case containing two razors of a similar
make, with an empty spaoe for a third. He swore
to having searched me, and to having found in my
possession a watch and chain, the former of which
had engraved on it the name of Heaton, and that
the same name was found written in a pocket-
book found in the coat pocket of the deceased.
The landlord, re-called, swore to having seen the
watch in the possession of the dead man. Other
witnesses called deposed to my suspicious
flight, to my guilty fear, to my overpowering
terror.
The evidence was thus strongly confirmed. So
damning in character and so appalling was it, that I
Lawn Tennis.-Esthotic Delights.
had not the courage to avow my innocence, to
■wear that if the raaor that had done the dreadful
deed was similar to mine it was hut by a terrible
coincidence—that one out of my case was at that
moment at the’outlers being re-set. That, if I had
taken the murdered man’s watch and chain in
mistake for my own, it was explainable only by
the overpowering horror that had taken hold of
me at the time. I could have said that—and per-
haps, despite my unreasoning terror, would; but,
as I endeavoured to make an almost superhuman
effort to reoover myself and assert my innocence-
praise be to God I—my vindication came from
another source.
In the midst of the proceedings, a man in a state
of the greatest exoitement entered the room
abruptly, and, making his way hastily to the
coroner, handed him a letter.
“ This bears on the case,” he said, deeply. “ Read
.it.”
The coroner took the letter and glanced over it.
All at once he looked up with a different air.
‘‘This throws a different light on the subject,”
he said, “ifit is genuine. Gentlemen of the jury,
listen to this.”
‘“Dear James,— This is to inform you that
£lO being all I have left in the world out of
the £12,000 the sale of my station brought me,
and as I am thoroughly broken ia health
by that accursed drink, I have determined to
commit suicide. I have nobody to consider
but you and myself, and I hope you will for-
give me. When you receive this I shall be a
dead man—killed by my own hand. Pray for
me, and forgive, your loving brother,
“ * J. Heaton.’ ”
“ I am his brother,” said the man, brokenly,
“ and this morning I received that letter.”
I was free. After some legal preliminary to
prove the genuineness of the letter, I was free. I
lost neither position nor standing; but such an
impression did the terrible circumstance make
upon me that I cannot even now—after the lapse
of months—thinkjof it without the deepest dread.
A CELEBRATED SURGEON’S EXPERIENCE.
Sandgate, Brisbane, August 9, 18*8.
Eentlemen,— My wife had a severe attack of
Rheumatlim, which flitted from joint to joint, for
more than a week, when a friend (In my absence
from home) reoommended St. Jacob’* Oil, aad
after two or three applications according to the
instructions given, she found herself, muoh to her
surprise and delight, entirely free from pain, and
now always keeps a bottle of the Oil in the bouse.
I am, sir.
Yours faithfully,
H. T. GIRDLBSTONE,
M.R.0.5., Eng., L.A.C., Lond.
Counterfeits are lively but they have not yet
awived at any successful imitation of Wolfe’s
SCHNAPPS.
Drowsiness, biliousnes, pains and aches,
and ague. Hop Bitters always oures if made by
Amenoan Co. Read
IN AN OBSERVATORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Melbourne Argus has been for many weeks,
months, past, publishing controversial letters on
the "Westminster Confession of Faith.” The
groundwork of the creed of Christendom is ques-
tioned therein, as if it were still all a matter of
doubt and debate. Much of this reads as of the
old controversies on the theological subject* when
it was seriously debated as to what number of angels
could dance on a needle’s point. To common
sense it reads all as does the tediously long trial
of the Tiohborne claimant. Everything in that
case depended upon an assumption, and the little
things that could be adduced in support of the
truth of it. These minor matters were brought
forward and worried in argument to endless
length, and so with the matters of the “ West-
minster Confession of Faith.” There is no end to
this sort of thing, and it is all as of the dark ages
and of their debates to read of it
Muddled with the matters discussed by Messrs.
Sutherland, Thomson, and Sentoul, we visit an
an Observatory in the holiday-time that Christ-
mas affords for such purpose. The astronomer-
in-chief happens to be alone on the occasion, so
that there is timely opoortunity for a chat.
" What is science ? ” we ask. He answers,
" The discovery of Nature’s laws, and tracing
their results ”
" What is astronomy ? ”
“ Gathering knowledge of Nature by observa-
tions and deduciag the results.”
"Tennyson, in his latest poem, tells us that
‘ many a planet by mauy a sun may roll with the
dust of a vanished rae9.’ What doe* astronomy
teach as to that Is it a scientific truth, or merely
poetical language ?’-
“Trueenourhl Planets are living things like
ourselves. They have their youth, maturity, old
age, decay and death. There are planets observable
by the astronomer in all theie stages. Mars, for
instance, is in a decaying stage—the waters are
drying up. The decay of animal and vegetable
life will f olio w upon this. The planet then becomes
again what it once was -unfit for life. It dries up
to the condition of a burnt out cinder. In count-
less millions of years it triturates away into
meteoric duit—no atmosphere offering then an im-
pediment to its doing so.”
“ Is life on all planets alike ?”
“It must necessarily be very different! The
constituents of a planet differ, and so must its pro-
ducts. What lives on one planet could not exist
on another. The men of Mars would necessarily
be of a cast-iron make, compared with the men of
our earth. We exist in an atmosphere pressing so
many pounds to every square inch of our bodies.
In any other differently-constituted atmosphere
we should perish.”
"The life of one ffianet oould not then bo trans-
ferred to another ?”
" Not unless that other was similarly constituted,
which is most unlikely, and indeed altogether im-
probable, if not impossible.”
“ Have you considered what suoh statements
lead to?” , .
“ Such is our constant study 1”
“ Everything born of a planet dies with it, you
say. Our world becomes, like other worlds, a
burnt out cinder I”
“ Yes; that will be the end of It some millions of
years to cornel”
“ Does the life animating’ us come from this
planet f ”
“ Yes!—much as electricity does!”
“Nothing of this world can be passed on to
another world ?”
“ Nol and it could not exist there if there were
any means of passing it on. We live in an atmos-
phere—as fish do in the water ; with the rarefloa-
cation of that atmosphere we breathe with diffi-
culty—as on mountain tops. Outside that atmos-
phere we die.”
“ What medium is there between worlds ?”
“ No atmosphere, no medium, nothing but space
and absolute void.”
“ Electricity could not travel then beyond the
world producing it ?”
“ Nothing of the product of a world could leave
it. Generated of the world to which it belongs it
is part of it, and dies with it.”
“ Bear with me for the next question—what be-
comes of the life of this world ?”
“ I have told you it dies with it!”
“ What is the object of creation then ? Why are
all these myriads of worlds made ?”
“It is the law of Nature to make things grow
and decay—to live and die. Countless worlds and
all that is upon them are doing this at all times.”
“ And to no purpose ?”
“ No purpose that astronomers can divine.”
“See what you have led up to! You and I are
to perish with this world of which we are part.
Our life dies with it. What about the soul ?”
“ You ask me scientific queitlons, and I answer
them. Solence teaches nothing about the soul.”
“ I see. You shirk that question.”
“No, I don’t! If the soul be of this world’s pro"
duction, as it must be, scientifically considered, it
must die with the world. I apprehend that what
you mean by a soul is the assumption of theo-
logians who cannot demonstrate its existence.”
“Why do they teach its existence, then?”
“ It is the best paying business so to do-all over
the world, if no money could be made by
theology it would soon cease to be taught. Re-
ligion is a means of government, and one of the
ohief product* and regulators of civilization.
Morally, it is our greatest help to keeping order.
Scientifically, it is to be disregarded.”
Wiser, but very muoh sadder, we take our leave
of the observatory and its astronomer. We have
matter for much thought in the hour or so of in-
formation there obtained. The controversy on
the Westminster Confession of Eaith no longer
muddles us, however. We understand now all
about it, and the reasons for propounding it and
for arguing in support of its absurdities—there is
money in it!
AtTSTKAIi.
Says a Western exchange“ George
Cripps, a Bathurst young man, got crossed in
love, and blew his brains out last week.” His
what? Men in love have no brains. Why Ovid
(and he ought to know) tells us that not even a
god can love and keep bis hair on. Practically
speaking, love is but another form of the D.T.’s.
We’ve been there ourselves, and know it.
"Fac Ne Fac."
This little book is addressed to mothers and
teachers, and is dedicated to Mrs. Barry, of
Bishopsoourt. This prepares the reader for the
announcement that it is all about guns. The title
is queer, but when looked at thoughtfully, it will
be found to mean “ Do—Don’t.” The author pro-
poses to teach boys and girls how to handle guns.
The peculiarities of the old single-barrel, double-
barrel, and breech-loader are described in terms
which a boy of average intelligence can follow.
We don’t care about the notion of teaching girls
how to shoot. We think it quite time enough
for them to begin to learn shooting when they are
able to throw a stone straight. The author takes
high ground in putting the shot-bag and powder
flask into their hands. He says Taking into
account the smallness of our population and the
danger of invasion by a very superior force, a
regiment of Australian girls with their high
coui’ftge would give a very good account of them*
selves.” Such a contingency is possible. He
who conjures up possibilities and proceeds
to draft plans of action. to checkmate evils
that are barely possible is an intellectual
ruminant. At page 17 the author very properly
describes pigeon-shooting as a sport fit only for
lame legs or black-legs. At page 38 he makes
himself personally responsible for the truth of the
statement that on a station in the country a gun
barrel was used as a poker for nine years and had
bean charged all the time. For the rest he stieks
tight to his topic, and writes a book every boy
should read.
Positively the very last of the Melbourne
Cup stories runs as follows: A guileless youth,
who had seen better days in the oapacity of tele-
graph master across the border, and who had
made himself perfect ia the art of "taking by
sound,” being lounging round in an inland town,
hit upon a capital idea of raising the wind.
Sauntering up to the window of the local tele-
graph office, prior to the hour the Cup was run
for, he asked the clerk for the Postal Guide, for
the ostensible purpose of keeping the window
open so that he could hear plainly when the wires
flashed the result along. Presently there came
the clicks . . “ Sheet.” Skipping off
at once he slouched into the bar of a sporting
pub., where a goodly crowd of the talent were
waiting for the news, and after a time he ventured
to observe he "had a presentiment that Sheet
Anchor would do the trick;” a remark which was
received with shouts of derisive laughter, and
sundry exclamations such as, "Sheet Anchor, be
blowed.” ‘ Hasn’t got a 100 to 1 show.” "Couldn’t
win a stick race.” "Time you swore off,”
&c. The smart young man took all in good
part, however, merely remarking that he be-
lieved in presentiments, and he wouldn’t mmd
backing this one for a
"liver.” A few seconds
later he stood to win £l3O,
and when the telegram was
at last posted in the bar
announcing Sheet Anchor's
win, the losers paid up,
and drank the winner’s
health, amidst such re-
marks 8S “ Bigor, he was
plucky.” “Who’d 1 a
thought it?” "Must have
had the straight griffin
that time,” etc. So he had;
and this reminds us that
there are many men knock-
ing round over here who
can stands on the foot-
paths in front of our tele-
graph offices and read
every word that passes
aloeg the lines. Those who
remember the collossal pile
the Yankee operator,
Johnny Skae, made by
tapping the wires, and
standing in with a couple
of brokers during the Ne-
vada silver boom can see
what a neat thing in the
same line could be worked
over here, simply through
the parsimony or neglect
of the authorities in not
providing suitable rooms
in which the secrecy of
the “wires” could be en-
sured.
The wealthiest maiden lady in the United
States is Miss Catherine Wolfe. She does not
centre her affections in a husband, but she has
aspirations all the same. Bhe has determined to
disoover the site of the Garden of Eden. Por
this pumose she set apart about a year ago the
sum of £35,000, and the Rev. William Hayes Ward
was commissioned, like another Columbus, to
■ail on a voyage of discovery. The reverend
gentleman has just returned to America after a
fruitless sojourn of 10 months at the sources of
the Tigris and Euprates. He reports that he
would most likely have been able to “spot” the
site of the celebrated garden but for the hind-
rances thrown in his way by the “unspeakable
Turk.” Miss Wolfe intends to fit out another
Eden expedition, and it goes without saying that
the Rev. Mr. Ward is to revisit the Orient.—
Fair Miss Wolfe and Rev. Ward,
Spare yourself this useless search;
Know that superstition’s guard
Still shields the seorets of the Church.
Where the Tigris rolls its stream
Till it meets the Euphrates,
Eden—some old poets dream
Garden of pluperfect easB—
Anno Mundi, One,
Blossomed for a little space,
When old Adam left, to run
First heat in the human race.
Nevermore he saw the site
Of the garden, why should you
Seek to throw your candle light
On what may, or not, be true ?
Feebly groping in the dark,
Ward and Wolfe, ’tis little good;
Noah when within the Ark
Saw Eden washed out by the flood.
* “ Fac Ne Fac. An Appeal to the Mothers and
Teachers of Australasia. By‘Outis.’” Sydney:
George Robertson and Co., 1885.
Something for parents to think over.
We feel it our duty to write you what the Cim-
CURA. Remidies have done for our little boy, who
has been terribly afflicted with salt rheum, scro-
fula, and erysipelas ever since he was born, and
nothing we could give him helped him until we
tried Cijticura, which, after using quite a
quantity, began to help aid gradually cured him,
until he is now as fair as any child. His body was
completely oevered, and his face and hands
swelled very badly. We had no comfort with him;
it was so much work to take care of him, and he
suffered so. We bsgau to treat him when he was
18 months old, giving him at first 10 drops of the
CtmcußA Resolvent at a time, bathing in warm
water and Cutioura Soap, and applying Cdti-
CORA carefully to the entire body. He is now 3i
years old, and is perfectly well. We have not
written before because we thought it might ap-
pear again; but it has not, and we are very thank-
ful Mr. and Mrs EVEaErr STEBBINS, Bjioher-
town. Mass.
Hop Bitters gives good digestion, active
liver, good circulation, and buoyant spirits. Get
the only genuine American Co.’s. Read
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a remedy for most physi-
cal ailments. You cannot err by using it.


ggcaffsfcsqao
MARKUS
H ? AD STOUT.—This favourite feraac
fa est nf iu o selected with great care from toe
Arth,,» o , brewings of the celebrated firm of
fl ftnnr>t>r ulniieBB Co., Dublin, and therefoie
Cat & e £oeUocl. to be procured everywMow.
Role Airent*.
■ H. GEODES & CO.
sauLßoasr, xeoe-e
* oel 4 rww
Days:
JHtiasDAT
Chamber
•/ Oommtret
War 'houe tl
*4S«
'«TOi,«,
Wther
TU £BDAt.
xiii-Shin; nihu 1'13
, ".1” it: U ‘j 2“:
MW, fa!
”T'.”:'.-'.3"'Ij'l"7".i'i‘?
ﬂ MW"
WWW
Wool Boouren*
'Bnokland Milli
Waterloo Milli
And Floodrale.
Capabilities
1,000 Bale*
Weekly
Delivery,
14 Day* aft«
reception.
Special Eebati
on Wool Sold
by m after
Boonrinf.
„ r»t SWok, Mod«r»
, “OffDATB & THURBDAYB. '
S»ra B r*e»ptfoa U PtUvtry.
«■* °®lpocl«', for Wool to be Scoured by tk* Fiim,
Wiorn forwarded Free of Coet.
WAREHOUSES & OFFICES, CIRCULAR QUAY.
ffl'2r3D3sr'Mnr
RAW VASELINE.
A
rtenln * ! ' and Preserving Horses’ Hoofs
v 8 a Loi?u ParaBi teB, and prevents their growth
s ft
H B -ia f OP 7, &c. it is the sole material
t er .hian B i e ai, °ve purposes in the Austrian and
* 6 tpera. armiea - Sold toy all Saddlers and Btore-
SOLE AGENTS:
BLACKBURN & 00.,
KBa LE SADDLERS’ IRONMONGERS,
185 York- street, Sydney.
HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
•WPORTfRjDFAILTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
Robert BUTCHER * CP.O.
g.--, (Late William Long),
Wj NB AND SPIBIT MERCHANT,
Qp 684 GEORGE STREET,
08IT1 THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Orders reoeive prompt attention.
M. WALLACE,
1 1 4 Impor ter of every description of
stature, Law, Mercantile and
*»wiu, F an cy Stationery.
r *P«r« and Kacailnti raoalvatf by
°*AL J**H.
OnnttHb RT„ ABB BTPWB
JULTA WINES,
MEDAL BORDEAUX, ?
CELLARS and BODEGA.
Greorge-street
(Beneath Paling’s.)
«i|£P CRlPtiotijs are tc
!‘ Tl? E,” for the“ nd iu tho “ LIGHT AN!
f, 081 Manhood cure of Ner vows Uebllity
‘^bo "«»POMency, 4c. A copy oi
A ""—
Sydney Pharmacy.
7<l Huntor-Btreet, Sydney,
Foster’s Bugle Brand.
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
-St,
mmm
SK
~
=e?
3&
*S
i
si
&X
K?
f&?
iS:
mm
a*
S'
Kg
BASS PAL* ALB,'*
The BEST ALB and STOUT inthe Market
■OLD BT ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINS!
MERCHANTS.
Wholesale Agents:
W. Balchin, Johnston & Co.,
Commercial Chambers,
BOND STREET, SYDNEY,
“.‘. .5 It. If
.2:- r :3 ' , W. 5”“.
, ' 4 ,7 ‘ MAN
.72 -:“-—.._‘._.9'__._ - {1:— 3% '*»"‘ ‘f:_
_ ,_; __,_ _, _;_',_..._< 1 ,
. I',r ,@I;E._l/-—¢_. ——— —_..'7_: .
. .,_‘.;_;~ I». ‘ ~ ' “
’ muliyuuuu"; ‘ ' ,
. __> w1____‘ - ._ 0'3;
#41 ,"1""f'-"."\'i'71" . ' 1 y Ix ‘4
13‘” “ “\“.~',‘o;",'.9*' ‘ “" If
",\ ,‘~1“'r;4'\"£~‘n"l‘ ‘1. (
~ .u.§«vuj;~.
‘ I WI.'..-m,\F .';'r. g !
. 1.} ‘x . H H
_ I l Fran-r’wf.‘ Emit”! 15‘- ‘ ’ ‘ '1
:,"_" '-?"."\-TF='u-Tn:m:, {"21“ . 7- ' \ i
.7 :: -_-:‘_-j.::.n.:.-_:. cm: "3' [ . Y " _
‘ "" tit-i=3 2/5; W ‘1; .1, 4 ﬁg:
' 334-. TM”, ’ y " 3 r35; {12
,. gtt»: -_;r:.-‘ ’r ..~- J WEE—$—
L—i‘r—é-e‘“ :*_., 7:.SEL1JEI1! “':/_7/_‘é:——"-_=-"“_" ,, 71‘5""
‘=“‘:—Z‘:—“'a’-‘ “ '4f”_- _. _-———.-:—=-
.«Wﬂ: g, -Aw:vv—Q=E“t -_ 4
T
HE
REMINGTON
TYPE-WRITER.
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY, EASE,
CONVENIENCE, ECONOMY.
ET THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER saveB
labour, stationery, and time, writiDg much
taster than expert penmen, and condensing matter
to less than one-half the space occupied by pen
writing. Beautiful copies may be taken in thf
usual manner in the letter-press. Merchants,
bankers, solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors,
reporters, and all men or business should use the
type-writer, and save much valuable time.
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY and CO.,
85 Clarence-street.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
BSTABLIBHBD 18«9.
INCORPORATED or ACT OF PARLIAMENT, 187*
Paid-up Capital *300,000
Reserve Fund *150,000
Directors :
The Hon. 81r John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chaim
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George 8. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.O.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
AUDITORS:
Jas. Soroggle, Esq. I Hon. &. E. Cohen, B*
GmmL Managbr: I Sborbtart:
F, A. A. Wilson. I Hector Allen.
Branch as in New south walbs :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Reifern, Gosford, Nynga r
Bourke, Manly, and Parramatta.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
Esq
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Final
oial Agency Business on the most favourable ter mi
Bills discounted daily. .
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
Christmas Presents.
iJiiViiiVjl UiWS •
Edward Chapman, Esq. I Geo. P. Slade, Esq.
•ir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G | Geo. H. Alexander,
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
N
OVELTIES
FOR
IN ■
GENTLEMEN
PIPES,
CIGAR AND CIGARETTE CASES,
MATCH BOXES,
WALKING STICKS.
A large assortment of CIGARS, in all size boxes
suitable for Presents. Also, every brand of
tobacco.
MAKE YOUR PURCHASES EARLY FOR
JOHN NOAKE,
TOBACCONIST,
320 & 446 GEORGE STREET,
AND
PALL MALL, HUNTER STREET.
E P PS'S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
DK. BOYD,
63 CASTLEREAGH-BTRKET, SYDNEY
(Upstairs),
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
Registered Physician of New South wales.
Office Hours:
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday, Wednesday,
and Saturday Evenings 7 to 9.
Deformities, Nervous, and l emale Diseases r
Specialty.
Box 130 G.P.O.
2 ,
REUTER’S LIFE SYRUP, No. 2.
A positive and radical cure for
every form of Scrofula, Syphilis
Scrofulous Sores, Affections of the
Skin and Scalp with loss of Hair,
and all diseases of the Blood, Liver,
and Kidneys. GUARANTEED to
purify, enrich, and vitalize the Blood
and restore and renovate the entire
system.
REUTER’S HEALING SOAP,
For the Bath, Toilet, Nursery and
the healing: of skin diseases of
every kind and at every stage.
Sole Wholesale Agents i
S. Hoff suing & Co.
USTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRS SOCIETY.
„ , Established 1872.
Capital—£loo,ooo with power to increase to £1,000,000
BONUSES—3O per cent, paid annually since 1873.
Office*.
First Fire Society established in me coiony on
the Mutual principle, giving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year.
Policy-he ders are perfectly free by law from
all liability
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates
WALTER CHURCH, Manager,
Head Offices—PlTT and KING STREETS.
PAINTS.
OILS.
m
WALL
PAPERS
Office: 330 Oevrge-street.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
N.B. Patterns and Prices sent.
Sulpholine
Lotion,
THE CURE FOR SKIN DISEASES I
In a few days Eruptions, Pimples,!Blotehes entirely
fade away. Beautifully fragrant. Perfectly harm-
'ess. Cures old-standing Skin Diseases. Astonish-
ing results follow. It removes ©Very kind ol
Eruption, Spot, or Blemish, and renders the skiD
clear, smooth, supple, and healthy. Sulpholine
Lotion is sold by most Chemists. Bottles, 2s. 9d
each. Made only by J. PEPPER and Co., London
PEPPER’S
QUININE & IRON
TONIC
GREAT BODILY STRENGTH I
GREAT NERVE STRENGTH I
GREAT MENTAL STRENGTH !
GREAT DIGESTIVE STRENGTH follows the use
of PEPPER’S QUININE and IRON TONIC. It
promotes appetite, dispels languor, depression,
&c.. Is a remedy for Neuralgia, Chest affections,
and wasting diseases. Bottles, 32 doses. Sold by
Chemists everywhere. Insist on having Pepper’s
Made solely by J. PEPPER and Co., London
Specially suitable for the colonies.
I-ioclr^rex’s
SULPHUR
HAIR RESTORER
THE BEST. THE SAFEST. THE CHEAPEST.
Restores the Colour in a few applications.
Large Bottles, Is. 6d. Made In London.
■>
4T4
&
*
4T $$
&
*#V
#
Sr
,v
v//
P'4
<6
,cr o
w.
% o v o.
<*
x^.<*. * -b <*
*w> *v
////> v vN
DR. BRIGHT’S PHOSPHODYNE.
The only Reliable Remedy for Mental and Physical
Depression, Nervous, Debility, Incapacity for
Study, Loss of Energy Sick Headache, Indigestion,
Female Complaints, Premature Decline, and is a
marvellous medicine for renovating impaired and
broken-down constitutions. It operates on the
system without exciting care or thought UDon the
individual as to the process. It moves the lungs,
liver, heart, kidney, stomach, and intestines, with
a harmony, vigour, yet mildness unparalleled in
medicine, and is the most powerful blood purifier
of the present day. Sold by all chemists.
Agents— KumoTT Bros.
C. B. BODIRI,
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a large and varied Stock of
FIREARMS,
manufactured by the moat celebrated English
makers.
G. B. M. further desires to apprise his customers
of the fact that he has been appointed AGENT for
the following Firms .—JOHN RIGBY & CO., Lon,
don; THOS. BLAND & SON., London; JOSEPH
LANG & SON, London ; CHAS. OSBORNE
CO., London.
G. B. M. is also AGENT for the eminent firm
BUSSY & CO., London.
Game Bags, Gun Cases, Cartridge Belts, Ac., and All
kinds of Sportsmen’s Requisites for the field.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
802 6i9rgß.st. p Sydnoy,
Where Inspection is invited.
rHB FRESH FOOD AND ICE COMPANY
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AS
H®. 23 Royal Arcade,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Coooa, &o„ with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may bo left for delivery
by their carta.
They have also taken over the Ageßoy to
“ KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo
nary complaints.
Fresh Food £ tee Co., Limited,
Head Office.. .. .. ,„ 21 Harbour-street
Stables ... .. ... .. Liverpool-street.
Factory • * Ml M Ml Mittagong.
HOHESTY /S THE BEST FOL/CY
OH.K
ORSt
It la of the utmost importance that contents 01
each bottle should be carefully compared, as large
quantities are being imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should oOffl
pare LORNE HIG iLAND WHISKY with any O
the other brands, vhen they will find a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORNK HIGH
LAND WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SOt, AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS
I
LIMITED,
14 stud 16 Spring StrMt
Sydney,
Here always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
GLASS, CHINA,
AITD
BARTH BN W A K B,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J.T.GA YEN'S
Schnapps and Genera,
A. MELVTNand SONS’
Bdinburga Pale Aie.
Ingham’s
Queens! ano Cure
Asthma, Bro/vchms j.
Couchs,
ROCKHAMPTON


'QM.
(09833;
JldOdi
ONV -
niOVJDN
mi
WATC HES 1 J EWE LRY.
Electro-Plate
l&C J3^2.
o
V'
339
BONA-FIDE REDUCT
*F
H
A
* 3_4LGEORCES t
- - ..AND AT
S'i&tM el bourne
#
T i
T A
FOB GENERAL DEBILITY AND NERVOUSNESS,
FOR INDIGESTION OR EXHAUSTION,
FOR FEVERS AND LOSS OF APPETITE,
ALL CONVALESCENTS,
At all Drufffficta and Cbemlst*.
DRINK IT I
$
pi
1
ASK TOUR GROCER FOR
ALTED
%T. S. FRY & SOUS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“ An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.—Lawobt.
mm
DR. O COITETELL,
52 Castlereagh Street,
SYDUEY, YT.S.W.
A REGULAR GRADUATE in all the branche*
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S. W., whose
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all private cases, chronic,
nervous, skin and special diseases,
DR. O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent by post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is frankly stated. Especial attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
ilio result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence,
producing some of the following effects: —Ner-
vousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples on the Pace, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of Pleasure in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Ilead.iclie, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
l'ains in the Back, Stunted Development, Ac., are
treated with unparalleled success. Cures per-
manent, safe, and private. Symptom list free, and medicines sent by post.
Skin Diseases, Itching-, Burning, Scaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptions
of every kind, from whatever cause, promptly cured.
It is self-evident that a physician paying particular attention to a class of cases attain* great skill,
and physicians m regular practice all over the country knowing this, frequently recommend cases to
this oldest office in Australia, where every known appliance is resorted to, and the proved good
remedies of all ages and countries are used. On account of the great number of cases applying, the
charges are kept low—often lower than is demanded by others. If you secure the skill, and get a
speedy and perfect life Cure, that is the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free. Call on or
addrBSS DOCTOR J. O CONNELL,
52 Castlereagli Street (grouhd floor), Sydney.-
OTae Reliable B-cLggfl®
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE ■
AMERICAN CARRIAGE A MACHINERY REPOSfI
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS,
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONE^
California and Eastern Buck board Mango* l *;
MT BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN
WILLIAM FLEMING*, Merchant A
88 A 84 Olarenofl-stTeet. Sydney fnear Pet.tv’« Hotel
IDa,rli:n.gr ZE3Za,r‘tooio.r Ho^
HARBOUR ITRECT, lIDNET (Opposite Railway Hates).
J2L.
STEPHEN HOPKINS (Late of Wagga Wagga), Peef\
BT* EBPECTAL ACCOMMODATION FOE COUNTRY VTHTn^S
S!
ROLLING & BPANGENBERG PIANOS.
ZEITZ LEIPZIG
(Piano Makers to the Imperial Court of Germany).
PRIZE MEDAL IRON-FRAMED OVER-
STRUNG PIANOFORTES.
This high-class Pianoforte combines the Latest
Improvements with Economy of Price, and can
be had on application to the appointed agency,
Q. J. WELLS,
1, Hunter Street, Sydney,
from whom mav be had prices and terms to meet
all demands. Also, all kinds of German makers,
Brrds.
THE STANDARD ORGANS,
at very low prices and terms.
G.J. WELLS,
1 Hunter-street, Sidney.
WALLACH BROS. 1
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
AFTCV ttfORI
Copfrifhted.
HOSSTACHI and WHI3XIES.
. Boyd’s Beard Elixir did thi*, and ,
| trill do it on either betid kind or
bar• face. JForceo heavy Mom -
.
faili, 20,000 young men mlrsady
•otar full beards, having «~di t.
55
CopvriQ\U4.
• pkts. A# injury, eaeuy applied, ecrtein in eject. Tachelt 1». W.
**ch, S fer 3 e. Id., put paid sent under cover, free from ebtervaiien.
fAddroeo, trunk P»«yU» t Sole Ayent,ftooa 730, 4U\0., Sydney,lT. s. IT*
P. KIBBT.
From the lute Mr. Jahm Crratig,
TT rxd-extalrer,
84 lUNTIK Jk PHILLIP BTKXITB, 7
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Rlrbr tu In the employ of the
Curtli for atxteen (1<) yearg;
Mr. Jemee Curtia for alxteen
Manager for oyer ten (101 ream.
BLAKE’S I
ST!EAM 3?
H. P.
57 PITT STB
SYDNEY,
ABE SOLE AGENTS FOB T®*
:.r
and have In Stock and to 8* 1
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SERVICE
MINING PUMP 3 J
COMBINED AIR &
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING P U& 9
SIND FOR PRICES AND ALL &
CATALOGUES FORWARI
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS.
Manufacturer of all kinds of AEratad Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Vluorlfl^
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at B
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
CrExhibition awarded the Only Goto Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs, Bitters.
