

The Bulletin
NEW SERIES
df
LAST WEEKS!
A.t 15 per cent, discovnt oft list
prices.
At 25 per cent discount off list
prices.
|je Queen Jfbe Favorite
n f of favorites
gd
fg
df
THE BIGGEST SUCCESS
gd
fg
LOWEST Fg**,
liberal Tims Payment System
NICHOLSON’S CORNER, GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
one-third and one-fourth
the marked price!
& GO., 325 George Street, Sydney.
I or king and Saw-Mill Machinery.
p . GREGORY and CO.,
* A Are SOLE AGENTS for
* & CO., CINCINNATI
* llll7 a LARGE STOCK OF THEIR CELEBRATED MACHINES.
FOR WOOD-WORKING AND SAW-MILLING IN STOCK.
a M St
Send for Catalogues and Prises.
ores : 17 PUT STREET, Circular Quay, Sydney.
»EE
DOODLE
n mu
QodS
4
nr'St
"On
sons
m
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
r^ssr*
CO§<pSf aOR
TOBAC C O
* *o*B, Sydney,
possess the largest Factory, Manufacture more
Tobacco, and consume more American liear
bemis
Sir Bocrer, Champion, and Dlxson’B Cut Tobacco*.
ljlolitiieF,
24 O’Connell-street, Sydney,
PHOTOSRAPHIC STOCK DEALERS.
Complete Photographic Outfits, In *reat variety, from SS. Catalogues post freo.
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
SOLB AGENTS for BAKER’S DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and RAPID in the Market,
s 1
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied
best, and Cheapest in the colonies.
OOTS
OOTS
T. WIILIAHS & CO.,
IMPORTERS OF
BRITISH & FOREIGN BOOTS Sc SHOES;
Also, Manufacturers of
The finest quality of Goods in th above lines
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
S3OH


ASK EOK COLONIAL MADE
WIRE
PROOF
PROOF
NETTING!
BRAND.
CHEAPER THAN IMPORTED,
MANUFACTURED BY
JOHN LYSAGHT, Limtd.,
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SIDNEY.
SCHWEITZER’S COCOATINA.
Anti-Dyspeptic or Cocoa Chocolate Powder.
guaranteed pure soluable cocoa of the finest quality, without sugar or
ADMIXTURE.
The Facuiay pronounce It the “most nutritious, perfectly digestible beverage for Breakfast
Luncheon, or Supper and invaluable for Invalids and Young Children.
Being absolutely “ all Cocoa,” with the excess of fat extracted, is four times the strength of prepara-
tions thickened yet weakened with arrowroot, starch, &c., and in reality cheaper than such
mixtures, a teasp jonful to a breakfast cup costing loss than one halfpenny.
COCOATINA is the best Cocoa for INdia and the Colonies, keeping for years in all climates, being in
' a concentrated form. Made instantaneously with boiling water, and palatable without milk.
Celebrated far remarkable sustaining Properties. Specially adapted for early Break-
fasts. Adopted as a medical Comfort In tlie Royal Navy.
Retailed by Chemists, Grocers, &c., in Air-tight Tins, at Is. 6 d., 35., 6s. 6 d., &c.
, Wholesale by the Bole Proprietors,
80HWXITZEB & CO., 10 ADAM-STREBT, STRAND, W.C., LONDON,
AND ALL WHOLESALE HOUSES.
P. R. LARKIN,
Importer of Wines and Spirits,
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just completed extensive additions
to hiS WHOLESALE and RETAIL BOTTLE DEPARTMEN T, which is how replete with
a well-assorted stock of the Best Brands of Wines and Spirits, personally selected
by the proprietor.
He oan therefore confidently recommend the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, hopes to
merit the patronage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
ENGLISH ALES and BTOUT, OF ALL BRANDS, Is. EACH PER QUART.
THE FINEST BRANDS of WHISKIES, BRANDIES, PORTS, SHERRIES, CLARETS, and CHAM-
PAGNES, at the Lowest Prices obtainable in Sydney.
A trial will convince you. Special Prices for Cases of the above.
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, all returns being
allowed for. Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at the Railway
Station or any wharf in the city, or any country station, Free of Charge.
p. R. Larkin wishes to call your attention to his famous JS3 Cases, containing the following:
0 Bottles BRANDY
1 Bottle JAMAICA RDM
1 Bottle PORT WINE
3 Bottles WHISKY „ .
1 Bottle WOLFB’B SCHNAPPS
1 Bottle SHERRY WINE
TOTAL-18.
7 Bottles LOWNDES’ RUM
1 Bottle OLD TOM
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instanoe. To prevent delay, please make Post Office
Orders payable at the Haymarket Post Office.
Kindly Note the Address—
P. R. LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail W/ne & Spirit Merchant £ Importer,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL, George and Gipps Streets, Haymarket, Sydney.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 778 and 780 George-street, Sydney.
McLEAN BROS. R/G6 & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
612 GEOKGE BTEEET, SYDNEY.
o
o
<5
&
IRONMONGERS
!2
5
<n
s/
o
REG?
<fc
<b
SPECIALITIES:
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire- proof Paint,
Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
das Cooking StoresLeonis Fletcher’s, Jeans and Walker’s.
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &c., &c.
J. MURPHY’S
Central Loan and Discount
Offices,
CORNER OF KENT & LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite Georg e-street.
Money Lent at the Lowest Rate of Interest
In this City.
[Loans from is. to £lOOO, at lOd. in the £
per Month.
* r Loans on Gold and Silver Jewellery, Clothing, and
every description of Portable Property, granted
at Rates never before attempted in this Colony.
American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murphy’s Central Lean and Dls-
oount Offices, corner of Kent and Liverpool streets
opposite Goorge-street.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
MITTAGtOira.
tCirst-olass Accommodation for Commercials
PETER MURPHY* Proprietor,
Good Table and Reasonable Terms.
GUINNESS’ EXTRA STOUT.
FiKST QUALITY.
1
rrrui
BASS’ PALE ALE.
AOENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES I
W. BALCHIN, JOHNSTON & CO.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-st., Sydney.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION,
LONDON,
By Special Appointment,
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, and CO,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK G 0 CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS.)^
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
111
Importers of
TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING MAC Tg
RAILWAY AND OTHER CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL iJMWggb
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILD**®
MATERIALS, BQUATTERB’ SUPPLIES. &o. _
2
! m itei ;£:£*,:
&
fern
:
SGBPR
■vsA I
BAB. PLATB, BHSST, and HOOP IRON; GALVANISED
SHEET ana PERFORATED ZINC : TIN PLATES ; PIG IRON an fl LEAD;
„ JwFOKATJaI) ZINU ; TIN J latkd ; pig ikuh ana v r Wl“¥^#L l ;s&.
BRUBHWARP, FENCING WIU», WOOLPACKS, SHEARING SUPPLICrf
MUNGERY, ROLLED H GIRDER*?, PURTAAIiE, jriA*u.,*nd BBMI-EIX*P*P. t ii[tiG,
and HORIZONTAL BOILER?, STEAM and otbei PUMPS, L ATHESi f° u
SCREWING, and DRILLING MACHINES; STEAM HAMMER?, ENGINEERS
PATENT ROLjuEi, BHAPTTNG, Q UICKSIL Y *». _.t,t.Ts CvvfiJ
Sole Agents for PARMER, ROBEY, and BROWN'S CELEBRATED EVrrENT
ENGINES ; READING IRON WORKS’ AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS and
WM. TAYLOR and OO.’B Celebrated OILS and PAINTS.
WT Price List* and Catalogues rurnlshed on appuoasio** .
ROBERTS, CHARMERS, & C °”
: HA y ™KD T £mi sT K g®S, baBS° C *
- HARBOUR STREET, DABLI*®
SYDUEYi
Head Warehouse
Iron and Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Ofioo
Bl OBAcaOHUEOH
STAR & GARTER FAMILY H ux
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
g close to Post and Telegraph Ofltoe, T^A^lne** 0
iiies and Commercial Gentlemen. First-cia»°
ffIHIS Hotel is centrally situated, bein
JL Superior Accommodation for Farai
The most Comfortable and Commodious Private Bar in the city.
THE GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL,
Charlotte-place and Georg e-street.
K. II A \ KEY’S
1 DOZEN CASE
OF
S O RT IE 13
WINES, SPIRITS, alii MALT LIQUORS,
DELIVERED ANY PART OF CITY FREE.
Carriage free by Rail or,Steamer.
Order the ldoz. ease as you please from the list of
low prices as under, viz. :
Robertson’s Walker or Royal Blend
Scotch Whiskies 4s. per bottle,
Dunville’s Shamrock and Burke’s
Port Wine, for connoisseurs and
invalids 6s.
Port Wine and Sherry, from ... 2s.
Best brands Whisky or Brandy
from 20s. per gallon.
£3 CASE ALSO A SPECIALITY.
Marks’s Ai.e, Porter, and Lager Beer.
Certificate of merit of the first-class and silver medal
awarded at the Calcutta Exhibition, and patronised by his
Excellency the Governor's household, 6d. per bottle. All
first-class Goods. One trial will prove the fact. Bottle De-
partment of the GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL, Corner
George-street and Charlotte-place. Orders by post solicited.
Mrs. Hanney attends personally on lady patrons.
DR. BRIGHT'S FHOSPHODYNE.
The only Reliable Remedy for Mental and Physical
Depression, Nervous, Debility, Incapacity for
Study, Loss of Energy Sick Headache, Indigestion,
Female Complaints, Premature Decline, and Is a
marvellous medicine for renovating impaired and
broken-down constitutions. It operates on th@
system without exciting care or thought ud on the
Individual as to the process. It moves the lungs,
liver, hea 1, kidney stomach, and Intestines, with
a harmony, vigour yet mildness unparalleled in
medicine, nndl*; 11 most powerful blood purifier
of the present day Sold by all chemists.
A arentJl—Kt.T.lOT'r
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING
COCOA
awi
c.V\kNj<S & ,c^.
!7a3NIHOVIAI
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE STOCKS
WITH ALL
NEWEST DESIGNS
HIGHEST FINISH
LOWEST COST
CRA^ 5
,lST |fl '
CINE S '
law"
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS,
ESTIMATED FOR
NcfS 8
ROBERT COOPER *
SOLE
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET.
9- . g 0NI» ™
FREE
be found in I!ie fVO* i ’’ c oVl m
LIFE,” for the speedy cure or A fQt
Lost Manhood, Despondency 8e9 lo a ’
this book will be sent post
p 6EM .«»»p a .
UMBM'LLAS
ts.
MU
o*°
Ts&M
KSSfeS?
«**•*


THE BULLETIN
Vol 4 -No. 168-New 8* rim.
SATURDAY, JULY 31, 1886.
Fel©j—f K.
Fronde Again!
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JULY-31, 1886.
Thbrb are few historical writers of equal
vigour whose works and words require to
be received with the same caution and
weighed with the same judgment as those of
Mr. James Anthony Fboude. In spite of
his felicitous diction, the reader turns from
his biassed pages to seek in those of Hall am
and others the impartiality of which Mr.
Fboude is such a persistent enemy. Ac-
cording to him, the Celt is Humanity’s
enfant terrible. The Irish branch, particu-
larly, of this disagreeable family, is the
blaokest sheep in a black flock. The French-
man, oomposed of three-fourths Celt, with a
veneer of Teuton, has, no doubt, done some-
thing for human progress. The Welsh and
Highland offshoots have had at least the
good sense to keep civil and not make too
muoh noise. But the Irish lshmael has his
hand against most men—especially when
they appear in the form of landlords or
tithe-proctors—and so must expect to have
many hands against him. To Mr. Fboude
and those who think with him it is inexplic-
able—except on the basis of racial inferiority
—that the Munster peasant should continue
ragged and turbulent when for hundreds of
years so many inducements have been
pressed upon him to wear deceat clothes
and become law-abiding. His lands have
been stolen, his faith proscribed, his kins-
men banished or haDged, his women
ravished, and yet the ingrate is sullen and
d ssatiefled. The fault is in the race—yes, it
is clearly in the race.
* * *
The latest word of warning from the
Writer who discovered something agreeable
to say about Henry VIII., is in the form of
a letter to an American who, with the pro-
verbial curiosity of his nation, had asked
him to “ state shortly what he thought of
the Irish business.” He states it, and every
sentence bears the trade-mark of the author
of the “ English in Ireland.” Mr. Fboude
aocuses the Irish of having four times tried
to turn the Anglo-Saxon out of the country.
We believe there is a good deal of truth in
this, and it goes to show how injudicious it
is, when a burglar breaks into your house,
to endeavour to eject him, unless you are
quite sure you are able. It is, on the whole,
far safer to invite him to make himself at
home —particularly when he intends doing
sd, whether you invite him or not. But of
all the droll reasons for denying local
government to a people, the drollest per-
haps is, because their ancestors revolted in
centuries gone by. For hundreds of years
the Britons struggled against the Saxons;
for hundreds more the Saxons rose in un-
availing fury against the Normans. Men
who have not reached middle age have seen
Hungarians and Italians rise against Aus-
trians. The slave-holders rebelled against
the Union, but when they were put down
and restored, the refractory States got back
their rights—with the exception of the right
to trade in human flesh—as if no split had
ever oocurred. The idea of reconciling
people to a standing injustice is peculiarly
shortsighted. Tou may exterminate, but
you can never reconcile.
• • •
“ Tais only is to me clear that the two races be-
tween whom Ireland is divided will not be able
henceforward to live together there. If England
decides to uphold the Union, the native Irish will
not bear another disappointment, and will go
as so many of them have gone already. If the
Dublin Parliament is set up with control of the
Executive and supreme over ;the four pro-
vinces, Protestant Ulster will refuse to submit.
. . The Ulster men [under certain circum-
stances] will gather their property together and
move off ... to some distant colony, which
they will assist Into independence as their great
grandfathers assisted the Amerioar s.”
Such are Mr. Fboude's opinions. We be-
lieve them tobe demonstrably unsound. Itis
just as hard to tell by sight an Irish Proti s-
tant from an Irish Romanist as to tell a
Lowlander from a Highlander. It fs not
racial but religious jealousies fanned by
rival priests that keep the people apart.
When the Catholio becomes as tolerant as
his French co-religionist and the Protestant
as his German one, we shall have heard the
last of racial incompatibility. This tme is
not so distant as some imagine, and v ould
have arrived long ago but for the sacerdotal
fire-brands to whom bigotry islhelreath
of life. But suppose that every Celt left
THE LATE HUGH M'COLL.-See Page 14.
Ireland to-morrow carrying with him his
religion and his hate; that the whole
“Irishry ” with their priests, their pigs, and!
their rags passed away for ever. One of the
first things the Irish Protestants would do
would be to agitate for local Government.
It is not love of centralization but fear, or
affected fear, of Romanism that makes the
Ulster man repudiate Home Rule. Let him
but have the Island to himself to-morrow
and a Parliament would quickly follow. It
war from the bosom of Northern Presby-
terianism that some of "England's fiercest
enemies came. If Irish Papists swarmed in
French brigades and checked the British
arms at Fontenoy, Irish Presbyterians, as
Mr. Fboude allows, swarmed across the At-
lantic to assist in humbling their old op-
pressors at Saratoga and York Town.
If Cromwell, instead of massacreing half
the Irish Celts, hadbutrcmainedsufficiently
lorg in the country to flnißh the work and
destroy all, things would have gone on well
for a while—but only for a while. The de-
scendants of the English and Scotch settlers
would call themselves “Irishmen,” develope
a distinct nationality, and, long before
Grattan’s time, demand a separation more
or less complete. Persons of Mr. Fboude’b
school do not appear to understand this
question of national sentiment, and so
handle it clumsily. But they would under-
stand it if, say, England and France formed
one kingdom with the seat of Government
at Paris ; if the citizens of London could not
build a bridge nor dig a canal without leave
from the central administration; and if
French tffioiala, difftring in religion and race
from the people they ruled, were to be found
from Cornwall to Cumberland. Imagine
such a set of circumstances. Go further,
and imagine the French planting colonies in
the Island, proscribing the reformed religion
and punishing with merbiltss severity the
inevitable risings. Suppose the Englishman
exterminated or forced across the sea. What
would the result be? Why, that the
descendants of the victorious Gauls would
become Englishmen as the descendants of
British settlers became Americans, and in
the process of time demand self-govern-
ment. We in Australia see this decentral-
ising tendency in full work. Victoria and
Queensland separated from the parent pro-
vince; there is a movement on foot to drive
a wedge into Queensland; and Western
Australia’s time will come when she gets
sufficiently populous. Yet, to their shame
be It said, maisy of those who in Ylotoria
and Queensland vehemently clamoured for
self-rule oppose with discreditable incon-
sistency a similar demand from four millions
of people.
* * •
“ The Irish,” Mr. Froude continues, “ are an
unchanging people. . . . In their t florts against
England, Spain, France, the Pope, or whoever it
might be, found constant allies in the Irish. . . .
It was indispensable to us to keep our enemies out
of Ireland. . . , Where they (the English and
Scotch settlers) have been there has been order
and peace, and prosperity. The rest of Ireland
has remained in beggary and raggedness.”
And yet the settlers who established that
peace and prosperity fled in thousands to
bear arms against the Government undtr
which those blessings had been enjoyed.
Men frequently expatriate themselves
through being unable to secure sufficient
food and clothes. It is a new thing to hear
of their leaving thro,ugh having too much
of both. The Irish are, no doubt, unchang-
ing—notably in their determination to get
baok their stolen liberty. But their beggary
and raggedness are soon changed to well-
being under favourable conditions. If for
centuries you treat a people with barbarous
inhumanity, it is surely the height of folly
to expect them to be industrious and culti-
vated. Hear a great American writer—
Henry George— on the subjects—
“lt is difficult for one who has been lookicg
over the literature of Irish misery, as while
writing this chapter I have been doing, to speak
in decorous terms of the complacent attribution
of Irish want and suffering to over-population*
which are to be found even in the works cf such
high minded men as Mill and Buckle. I know
of nothing better 1 calculated to make the blood
boil than the cold acoounts of the grasping, grind-
ing tyranny to which the Irish people have been
tubjected, and to which Irish pauperism and Irish
famine are to be attributed. It was the same
remorselees repacity that robbed the Indian ryot
of the fruits of his toil and left him to starve
where Nature offered plenty. . . It was not the
imprudence ' of Irish peasants,’ as English econo-
mists coldly say, which induced them to make the
potato the staple of their food. Irish emigrants,
when they can get other things, do not live upon
the potato, atd certainly in the United States the
prudence of the Irish character in endeavouring
to lay sometbing by for a rainy day is remark-
able. Are not pauperism and starvation necessary
consequences in a land where the prcduoeis ef
wealth are compelled to work under conditions
which depiive them of hope, of self-respect, of
energy, of thrift; where absentee landlords drain
away, without return, at least a fourth of the net
produoe of the soil, and when, besides them, a
starving industry must support resident landlords,
with their horses and hounds, agents, jobbers,
middlemen, and bailiffs . . an army of police-
men and soldiers to overawe and hunt down any
opposition to the iniquitous system ?”
And yet, in spite of all these privileges, to
think that the Celtic Irish are still steeped
in raggedness, beggary andunchangeability I
Truly a remarkable people.
* * *
“ The Nationalist movement is a repetition
of the same attempts which have been four
titr.es made already to rid Ireland of the
Anglo-Scoteh settlers.” This is a specimen
of the wild assertion made by Mr. Froude
Yet it would be safe to say that, if a Parlia-
ment satin Dublin to-morrow, thousands of
the armed forces of the country would be
put in motion if necessary to protect the
humblest Anglo-Soot-Iruh colonist from in-
sult or wrong. But no such necessity would
arise. Because an Irish Parliament 200
years ago endeavoured to recover land re-
cently and wronfully confiscated, Mr.
Froude argues that a Parliament of to-day
would endeavour to reinstate the descend-
ants of the old possessors of eight-generations
ago. This is positively puerile. The com-
mon-sense of mankind has long since recog-
nised the neoeesity for a law of limitations.
The idea of Parnell himself—an Anglo ■
Irish Protestant—and his followers, repu-
diating tenures of two centuries is grotes-


que. Had Mr. Froude been supreme in
Washington when Lee surrendered, he
would have hanged dozens of the leading
“ rebels,” swamped the South with troops,
persistently refused to restore the State
tights, lamented Southern turbulence, and
Complacently concluded that centralisation
and strength were synonymous. Mr.
Froube’s letter is a shooking example of
the bizarre reasoning by which men who
are swayed by religious and raoial animosi-
ties endeavour to impose on the world. It
is more. It is a fine illustration of the pro-
found truth that we never forgive those we
wrong.
Capital and Trades’-Unionism.
Workmen walking: in procession through t
Streets at midday, and assembling in public ha
at night to discuss plans of future operations, t
that Labour is engaged in one of its many flgh
It is the briokmakers in and around Sydney w
ate at present on strike. The number of men o
of employment is not great, although a brie
master announced lately that unless the m
gave in building throughout the city and subur
would quickly come to a standstill, and mason
Carpenters, and other unionists would be at liber
to traverse the streets with the original proce
sionlsts. What the men want In this particul
case is to have eight hours taken as a workin
day. The employers who refuse do not do
absolutely, but present conditions which the me
decline to accept. What these conditions are, an
what may be said in favour of or against th
grounds on which they rest, we do not here pu
pose to discuss. The question that concerns us
the general one. It is trades’-unionism and capit
that have met, and, once more parted, foes. Capit
regards Labour as dictatorial, and Labour imput
traditional hostility to Capital.
* * *
There was a time when Capital possessed grea
advantages. It could on such occasions set La
at Labour. Gradually, however, the teeth of La
have been drawn. To-day, except In cases of phy
sical violence, which are extremely rare and nee
not be referred to here, the battle is fought o
argumentative lines and with the aid of sue
moral machinery as each side can provide. Arb
tration is rising as the new mediating power. It
effectiveness will depend on the soundness of ii
knowledge of principles. Whatever may be th
particular source of a strike the general object
of labour organisations enter into the contro
versy. If these be stated in an unfriendly wa
they overshadow the points at Issue. It was s
throughout the strike at the Lambton colliery
during the masons’ strike at Manly, and in almosi
every other strike as well as the present. It is
therefore, of first importance that the principle
which underlie these general objects should b
understood. Several of them, it must he con
fessed, appear to militate against reason. Tak
the rule Unions lay down, that, where piece-work
is not followed, the quick and slow man shall re
ceive the same wages. As a matter of abstrac
and individual right, this is indefensible. Bu
that is not the ground to j udge it from. The alter
native before the Union is to let men chase each
other under the eye of an employer. Who is to
judge what a fair degree of expedition is ? No
the individual, whether workman or employer
If the one, the slowest might be made the type; if
the other, the quickest. In the large workshops
of Manchester and Birmingham, men used, before
Unions took the subject up, to enter on each day’s
work as a race for life. The slower men were
systematically weeded out. Victory, however
was only nominally to the swiftest. The race hac
to be kept up. In the meantime, the slower men,
driven out of the door of rapid work, came back
by the door of lower wages. The maximum of
speed was met by the minimum of remuneration.
Where were the swift men then? It became
manifest that there was no use in trying to main-
tain a common rate of wages unless a common rate
of speed was taken as its measure.
* * *,
Another principle of Unionism, as irrational
when taken as an abstract proposition, is. that
which objects to men working overtime. There
are ciroumstanoes in which the objection is not
nrged, but it is part of the system. Capital says
that a limit should not be plaeed to a man’s in-
dustry. It points out, moreover, that the attempt
to put a limit fails, as the man, after all, may work
after quitting the workshop. Thus, the Union
makes a miner lay his tools down when he has
worked eight hours In a mine. But when he
goes home he may take up a saw and hammer and
build an additional room to his house. Put, this
way, there appears to be no difference between
working eight hours at mining and two houra at
carpentering, and working ten hours at mining.
From the standpoint of the man’s Union there is,
however, great difference. Take the case of the
Sydney briokmakers. If twenty million bricks are
wanted in a week and the men cannot keep up to
the demand, working overtime is allowable. The
more industrious, or rather the men whose in-
dustry takes the direction of keeping on at one
kind of work, are permitted by the Union to offer
themselves for extra hours. But if there be men
enough in the place to do within regular hours the
amount of work required, the man who works
more than a man’s share is taking part of another
man’s share away. Four briokmakers who work
two hours a day extra throw—on the assumption
that there is a full supply of men in the market—a
fellow-briekmaker out of employment. The
money earned by such men is called in the guild
" blood-money.” The term is a strong one, but it
is not inapplicable.
• * *
Each Union regards the work it concerns itself
With as having, at any given time, measurable
dimensions. In the general run of things it is
found that there are enough men for all the work
that wants to be done. This is the strength of
every Union’s position on the subject of over-
time. Work is like land. The labourer is no more
entitled to grab work ad libitum than is the land-
grabber to seize land. Work is diffused through
the State for the livelihood of all. Each Union
distributes its portion so as to give the individuals
under it a fair share each. If it be contended that
one labourer has the moral right to take away as
much of this portion as he likes, then we hav
only to suppose him endowed with sufficien
strength and he will have moral liberty to take th
whole of the portion. We can suppose him thu
doing all the work and letting the rest of the era
stand idle. When there’s a rush of work there i
as we said, no objection—at least no organise
objection—to doing overtime. But it is not di
guieed that there is in this an element of seriou
danger to the cause Unionism strives for. Nex
to insufficient work, work irregularly inflated
the greatest bane. The inflation is often due
purely speculative enterprise. Temporarily
factory finds itself fllled with orders. Elsewher
consequently, there is a depletion. The spirit tha
lifts Trades-Unionis'm from petty cliqueism to
position of sovereign influence, is that it look
not to the man of a shop only, but to all the me
of the guild. Regular employment within regula
hours, over the whole field, is better for men o
any trade than day and night work for a while
one spot, and no work, or little, at another. It
not necessary, however, to argue for more tha
Unions at present actually demand. Equal wage
for quick and slow men, and the limitation of th
hours of labour, have then, it is seen, each tw
aspects, under one of which the demands appear re
pugnant to reason, while under the other they ar
only repugnant to capital. It is so with othe
claims labour puts forward.
9 ■ ■
One straight charge levelled against Trades
Unionism is that it is selfish. The charge seem
true. It is proven by the fact that when it strike
it studies only its own time. But what is th
character of the foroe'with which it is contend
ing? Trades-Unionism represents the selflshnes
of a class, but capital represents the selfishness o
an individual. There is a vast diiference there
Under the one, individuals often sacrifice them
selves in the interests of their weaker fellows
The system has power, because of this spirit o
self-sacrifice. Under the other, the individual i
all in all. He puts his money into large buildings
he gathers in orders from every quarter, he calif
on his workmen and starts his machinery, and
just then a deputation waits on him and demand
a concession. It is natural for him to feel tha
he is a victim. But he should reflect that the
science of Political Economy, as expounded by
his class, has made the relation between employer
and employed a game of catch-who-catch-can. I
business grows dull, he does not hesitate to shut
up a branch or the whole place for a year. If by
machinery he can dispense with half his men, he
does it without scruple. The fact that families
had shifted their habitations into his vicinity does
not concern him. That was their risk. Well, then
when he employs them, he should remember that
that is his risk. The motives on neither side are
high, but they are not so low on the side of Labour
as to merit a moral lecture from Capital.
* * *
Were things as they should be, there would be
no conflict between Labour and Capital. One
would be the right hand and the other the left of
progress and prosperity. Christianity began with
the ennobling of Labour. Prom being the degra-
dation of slaves it became the vocation of free-
men. Who will not work shall not eat was set up
as a primary law. Every monastery had its
grounds to till, every layman had his trade to
follow. Peter had his net for the sea, and Paul,
his pack-needle for the white tents of Tarsus, and
He who taught them had His basket of carpenter’s
tools for the bench in Nazareth. While com-
munity of goods prevailed, there was health. But
as Christian communism declined, the body of
society reverted to its Pagan state. Wealth became
localised and Labour degraded. No longer did the
hand grip the tools in obedience to a high com-
mand and in recognition of a sacred duty. The
command was seen issuing from lips pursed with
the pride of money, and duty presented itself as
the naked barbarism of procuring food for the
stomach. Time deepened these characteristics.
At last all traces of Christian communism were
utterly obliterated. Labour sank to its nadir and
wealth rose to its zenith. The one had lost its
rights;, the other had surrounded its rights with
barriers of stolen privileges. Then, however, a
stronger influence than that derived from written
law began to stir. It was Humanity. Eights, in-
herent rights, not concessions from higher realms,
showed themselves as visions. Labour looked up.
By taking one another’s hands, the trampled mil-
lions would be able to stand. They reached out,
they clutched, they clasped. Such was the genesis
of Trades’-unionism. Looking back into the past
one marvels at the speed it has made. Looking
forward, one thinks oneself almost on the threshold
of a new world.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Oblique Review.
That title is about as obscure as the term " oblique
morality,” which had place recently in the Daily
Press. It conveys our meaning, however, which
is the peculiar review made by the Daily Press in
Sydney of the teaching and preaching of the Daily
Press in London. The Daily Press of Sydney
kicked up a big row recently about the New
Hebrides, and asserted, among other things equally
false and calumnious, that the unanimous voice
of Australia was in favour of Australian annexa-
tion, and that France, despite all treaties and pro-
mises to the contrary, really had annexed. Events
have proved the last assertion to be simply a lie,
while, as to the former, there is nothing in its
favour beyond the statements of the papers them-
selves and a few rabid pulpit utterances, which, if
reprinted in the French papers, would make more
mirth on the boulevards that in the tents of the un-
godly in Sydney. But the daily payers filled them-
selves full of the matter, and took themselves home
and passed themselves off as Public Opinion in the
newspaper offices of London. The result beiDg
that the Times and the Standard say that the
existing treaty must be respected (France, so far,
has respected it very strictly); and that Austra-
lian sentiment seems to be in favour of Australia i
supremacy in Pacific waters. This is right and
reasonable enough, but why should the daily
papers of Sydney straightway set up the Standard
and Times as high authority on the matter?
What possible chance can the writers on these
papers have of gauging the Australian opinion on
the matter ? How could they get at the facta but
from the papers they received ? And how much
more probable is it that they would have sound
information and formed accurate opinions on
such a matter as Australian borrowing ? Yet in
the Herald and Telegraph offices neither
Times nor Standard is regarded as Sir Oracle
about that.
4
The King of Bavaria and the Boctor.
The King murdered the doctor; there is not the
slightest doubt about it now. The marks of his
long, gorilla-like fingers were in the little savant's
throat and on his arm. All the upper part of bi d
face was bruised and smashed; the King had
struck him to stop his clamour—probably he
dragged him out through the shallows. The Devij
entered into the King—the beast-spirit, the in-
herited savagedom, we mean; the impulse of some
old monster of the forest moved beneath his hairy
breast, and impelled his sinewy arms of more than
human length. He was not a man; he should
have been shut in a cage or shot down at sight.
He was no more to be trusted than a tiger or
gorilla. But he was a King. And so he w& 8
allowed to murder the doctor in the last act as he
had been permitted to play the greatest fool’s
game the world ever saw with the accumulated
earnings of a hundred thousand peasants, for a
quarter of a century. And what did they do with
the carrion, the two hundredweight of brute ilesh
foul with murder when they had dragged it from
the lake ? The doctors handled it first, and found
the brain diseased, found that the man had as
clearly committed mental suicide as any slobber-
ing imbecile of a criminal asylum. It was not a
deoent soul-case/they were handling but the foul
sepulchre of a nasty spirit. Yet what did they do
with it ? Is it not sickening to read of it, the
embalming, the dressing, the floor covered with
roses, and pure white camelias, violets, and nar-
cissus heaped on the coffin-lid ? Servitors, cour-
tiers, lords, and ladies mourning around, and
within the box a thing that would justify a quota-
tion of Tennyson’s mad lines. Literally and
truthfully one of
“ The dragons of the prime
Who tear each other in their slime.”
But still a king. And the murdered doctor was
shut up in a plain black box and deoently buried,
let us hope.
4
The Lord’s Day.
In a quiet and respectable way, a dirtier and
meaner thing never was than the Sydney Echo’s
fling at the Sunday concerts. Through about 30
weak lines and a half-dozen silly sentences, the
Echo tries to make it clear that Sunday concerts
are against the law of the iand, and the will of the
majority, and ought therefore to be suppressed.
And is not the Bunday preparation of the Mon-
day’s paper—the pursuing by editor, reporter, and
compositor, of their customary avocations on the
Lord’s Day, against the law of the land ? Why do
the Echo proprietors pander to the vile tastes of
a godies3 multitude, and compel their work-
people to break the fourth commandment, in
order that the S.M.H. may be served with break-
fast on Monday ? As to the will of the majority,
the parties in power whose political existence
depends upon that will, are probably far better
informed than the Echo, and they do not seem
inclined to go back a couple of hundred years
for unreasonable law to restrain this very reason-
able liberty. The truth is, the Sunday secular
concerts in the halls are just a little better than
the Sunday sacred concerts in the churches, and,
therefore, more popular. And as for sin in the
matter, well, it is sweet, and apparently innocuous
sin; and if all who indulge in it read the Echo by
way of penance, on Monday, their Judgment Day
account will stand pretty square.
-v
The Tory Triumph.
Lord Salisbury’s acceptance of the English
Premiership, if he really be courageous enough to
meet Parliament with such supporters as he can
muster, will be a return with more of humiliation
than triumph in its nature. Oaly two courses are
open to him by which he can maintain a majority.
Either he must “dish the Whigs” by adopting
their policy, which he has so strongly denounced,
or else he must be a mere negation in politics.
Adopting the latter alternative his administration
will exist on the strength of its forbearances.
Though he has defeated Gladstone’s plan of
autonomy for Ireland, he dare not, as we pointed
out last week, try to enforce his own views in
favour of Coercion. His Cabinet will retain its
place on sufferance, and its highest energies will
be devoted to the work of refrainin’g from offend-
ing those members whose support must neces-
sarily be precarious and uncertain. For many
reasons the advent of a Conservative Ministry
will be of great benefit to the Liberal party, and
not the least so because it will then be seen how
great indignity the Tories will suffer in order to
obtain an unhonoured lease of power.
CORRESPONDENT
[Correspondent* who give neither name nor nom-de-
ftlv/me cannot expect to have their com-
munication! noticed.]
“ James Marehment ” : Better stay where
you are. They will always find it better to get
poetry mailed to them than to have the bard
carted down to the office to write..lngoldsby”:
Thanks; will use it... “A. W. Bateman ”: Cutting
very acceptable "New Old Chum”: Your
metre is rougher than the voice of Gormley, M.P
.Garaogula”: Don’t see what can be done
with poetry of that kind unless by chopping it up
for circus-posters...." Jno. 8.”: We don't know
whether it’s the “ gently glowing light that lives
within her soft brown eye,” or “ the warm deli-
cious bloom that shows through her transparent
cheek,” but we do know that your poetry is not
up to scratch.H. G. Ward”: The whole con-
cern looks very fishy, but it is impossible for us
to make a statement to that effect. We
alluded to the matter when first advertised....
“T.A.” (Melbourne): Thanks. Please send ad-
dress— “Short-kilt”: You are a very gay dog.
Why don’t you send us some bush-paragraphs ?....
“Ram Stags”: We don’t quite see what you’re
driving at. Please send us the newspaper clip-
ping. ...“A. Fevry” (W. Maitland): Good ideas-
Many thanks....”T.W.B.” (St. Kilda): Thanks.
•‘Victim”: If you’ll put before us facts and
figures, we’ll gladly go into the matter. You
need fear no liability, as your name will under
no circumstances whatever be disclosed without
your consent...."R.W.” (Oooktown): When you
eay that the 13th of July “ passed off without the
slightest sign of life,” we suppose you mean that
there were no d”ad people lying in the streets at
sundown....“Protestant” (Taree): “Nowise man,”
once said Beaconsfleld, “ ever tells his religion.”....
“J. Sayce” (St. Kilda): The fact that the Marquis
of Salisbury visited Australia when a young man
and that he was the only British Premier who had
ever done so, was stated in The Bulletin months
ago, on the authority of “Therry's Reminiscences
of N.S.W.and Victoria.”....“ E.A.M.”: Unable to
accept this time...." G R.L.”: Certainly not. We
never argued that it would disgrace or degrade
some men to accept a C.M.G.-ship or even a knight-
hood. To some men it is an honour. For equally
cogent reasons it is gross flattery to call some men
thieves or blackguards....”A Working Man”:
Your letter conveys a welcome hint upon which
we intend to act...." Cato”: Is it a puzzle, or a,
plan for a new railway bridge ?...." 8.L.”; Metre
peculiar, but we will re-write....“ Catarrh ”: Dr.
E. W. Alabone, ef Highbury Quadrant, London t
claims to have discovered an entirely new
and unfailing remedy for .consumption. He
has lately published a work on the subject
Carington ” (Ballina): The Globe is the name of
the new Sydney daily. Write to any good agent
in Sydney for Reynolds’ Newspaper. Other
remarks noted—“ Old Buffer”: Thanks. Will
probably print...."Riverina”: Isita joke? When
we see the point of it, we will publish as a special
supplement....“ Leaseholder” (Booligal): It cer-
tainly does not seem to be the square thing that
holders of dry blocks should pay the same as men
who have the river frontages, but it is impossible
to condemn the Board without a knowledge of the
ground —“Marco”: Yes, “ladies”—of the sort
who are well-dressed “A Lucky Winner”
(Tocumwal): Do you imagine for an instant that a
sharp Hebrew would give away anything for
nothing? Keep thy money in thy purse....
“J.P.8.”: Very glad to receive your latest effort
although your best strength is not shown in that
line of w0rk....” Hiram Abiff ”: “Racing Certain,
ties ” held over for a while..“Farnorth”; Thanks"
—“ 8.5.8.” (Silverton): You might step round
some day when you are not busy and let us know
what your letter is about....“C.R.S.” (Reeves-
dale): Thanks for paper. Will notice....” Bush,
man (N.Q.): Will read for next week....
“H.F.C.”: Thanks; may use...." Come
tale is not very luminous. A bank-manager, a
private pound, and an Irishman should have done
something funnier than that between them....
“ J.A.R.”: We do not see that there can be any
insinuation of misappropriation of ,the funds for
accident at Prospect Reservoir. There does not
appear to be any such imputation....“Obex”*
uu a a», ; , D^ tWeek Much obliged....'
P. 8.8. : Will not stand re-printing. The “ Klama
Ghost” we s a cock-and-bull yarn about a Fenian
conspiracy, told by Sir Henry Parkes to a Kiama
audience soon after the killing of the madman
O’Farrell....“C.L,” Hughenden (Q.); Thanks.
Always glad of such items. ...“E.S.M.”: Borry we
have no space for a puzzle-column “ R.A.W.”:
Poetry bad, spelling worse. You allege that Hong
Jim was very “arqute.” That is worse than the
prosody of "Jack” Want, M.P .“Brum”:
Thanks. The stories are "mostly lies.” The gilded
and much-perfumed Australian parvenus who
live permanently in London are no doubt much
disgusted at the recqnt appearance in the big city
of their “ poor relations.”
NOTICE.
Thb Rates of Subscription to "The Bulletin’*
are as follows
One year 24/- in advance
Half year 13/6 „ „
Quarter 6/6
Cheques,. Drafts, and P.O. Orders, must be made
payable to J. M. HARDING, Managing Director,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
Postage-stamps of any Australian colony ac-
cepted for amounts under £l.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
The Bulletin will attend to all communications
of whatever character from near or distant cor-
respondents. The aim of the paper is to bring to
light the good things of all sorts.
The Editor will gladly consider suggestions for
illustrations, and will carefully read, and acknow-
ledge in the correspondence column, all contribu-
tions submitted—whether in the form of political,
social, or other articles, verse, short tales or
sketches, paragraphs, letters, or newspaper-clip-
pings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
Correspondents will please write on one side of
their paper only, and in forwarding newspapers,
will be good enough to mark the portions to whioh
they invite attention.
The Bulletin does not necessarily undertake any
liability in respect to MS., &c., forwarded. But the
Editor will, as a matter of courtesy, send back all
unsuitable contributions which are in the first
place accompanied by a properly-addressed and
stamped envelope.
The Bulletin will be glad to publish properly-
authenticated soolal items.
The woman who never does anything
foolish might crawl into a cave and stay there for
ever without being missed.


You Bet!
“The Queen has been pleased to accept the Resignation of Mr. Gladstone and his colleagues."—Recent Cablegrams.


Personal
Items
Gilbert, the English cricketer, lately sent
to gaol for stealing: money from crioketers’ clothes
in a pavilion, was never suspected of such things
when he was In Australia. He Is a cousin of the
Graces and the disgrace of the family.
“Baron Huddleston,” says the SM.
Herald, “has just successfully undergone a
serious operation. ’ We suppose the Baron has
had cut from his brain the bigotry convolution
which made so disgraceful an exhibition of him in
the blasphemy cases.
At Cairns (Q.) apiotureof Premier Griffith
has been hung up in the Council-chambers “as a
mark of loyalty.” From his appearance it is
generally thought that he was oleographed just
after eating two and a-half underdone pigs at the
recent local banquet.
Another of Charles Dickens’ sons, F. J.
Dickens, died at Moline, Illionios, on June 11, from
paralysis of the heart. His brother is land-valuer,
and is stationed at Wilcannia, N.8.W., where is
also the son of Antony Trollope, who is chairman
of the local land board.
An urgent application is made by cable to
the Governors ot the various Australian colonies
foffundsfor a coidDial testimonial to the Prince
of Wales. It is evident “Wales” doesn’t know
that anyone who in the colonies is addressed and
test momalised generally gets into gaol within
twelve months.
Captain Gerald Finch-Hatton, a high-
toned British loafer, who appeared among the
evil-smeHing “drunks” at Brisbane recently,
said it was monstrous of colonial cads to permit
a gentleman to descend to such a state of impe-
eunlosity. This haughty scion of a noble house
was discharged after the impudent magistrate had
cautioned him.
The lawyers, we know, love to twine their
clientß round their fiagers, and have them on a
®tring, but Mr. Braham, the insolvency authority
rne ,' always oarrles a bit of string about
with him, and, whilst examining witnesses, twists
and twirls it about his dapper fingers carelessly.
It is the thread of his discourse,.
•A Northern solicitor brought a charge of
wilful and corrupt perjury against a barrister.
Of course the case was dismissed. It was too pre-
posterous. If a legal gentleman can't lie, he must
necessarily toddle off to gaol as a creature “with-
out any visible means of subsistence ” And prison
atmosphere is tainted enough now, Heaven knows.
That “popular educator,” the Town and
Country Journal, informs its yokel constituency
that Marshal Ney was shot by orders of Napoleon
1., for alleged treachery to the French Imperial
cause. Mr. Samuel Bennett, the founder of the
T. and C. J., wrote a history of Australia, It is to
be hoped that his eldest son will never write a
history of France.
Alderman Either, of Adelaide, is giving s,
dinner to 1000 children of the East End of London.
We don’t know Either, and don’t seem to want to.
But we would like to know how many children he
ever fed in Adelaide? We hope to learn that
there are no hungry children in Adelaide, and
that the alderman would decline a dukedom if
offered one—to say nothing of a C.M.G,-ship.
Judge Bouoaut, of the 9. A. Supreme Court,
will, it is said, resign and again plunge into politics.
The judge gets only £l7OO a year (too much for the
work there has been lately), and the Government
propose to reduce that to about £l3OO or £l4OO
under the new system of graduated reductions of
civil service “screws.” It would hardly pay Mr
Boucaut to remain upon the Beneh at that wage.
When Baron Maclay performed his won-
derful exploit of crossing New Guinea, the niggers
became troublesome, and he told them that as a
punishment to them he would darken the moon
on the following night. At the exact time he in-
dicated, a great black oloud blotted out the moon
and the natives were awed and respectful ever
after. The baron had with him an almanac which
noted eclipses.
The Princess Beatrice is expected to give
us a little Battenberg about the latter end of
November—sooner or later. We would prefer it
to be later. If the little Bat. doesn't fulfil its
engagement at all we will endeavour to bear
HP, a<rßinot blow. The Queen has already some
13,498 grandchildren, and in the beautiful words
of Moody and Sankey’s hymn-book, “ Still there’s
more to follow.”
“ I didn’t think Lord Carington was so
dark as that,” remarked one of the old men at
Liverpool Benevolent Asylum last Saturday,
pointing to a cheerful-looking little man who was
fussing around. The old man had mistaken the
Chinese philanthropist, Presbyterian, and vocalist.
Mr. Quong Tart, for his Excellency. This is a
true bill, and shows what may happen to a noble-
man in Australia.
The best-looking criojjet professionals, say s
a London writer, are W. Bcotton and E. J. Diver.
They are both handsome men, and could, in the
matter of looks, shape, and style, give heaps of
weight to any duke In the English peerage. Be-
tween the men named and some “ wearers
of the strawberry leaves ” there is as much differ-
ence as separates Ormonde from Nubbley Bax
This is a little special Item for the espeoial benefit
of those ladies who are so fond of visiting Lord's
and the Oval.” Um!
Recently, at the Gaiety Theatre, London,
a matinee performance was given for the benefit
of “ someone who didn’t care to have his name
mentioned.” This affair marks a new departure
In bens. We like the idea much. You plank down
your “three hob”at the pigeon-hole, and remain in
a pleasing state of doubt as to who is going to get
it. You indulge in vague speculations about the
personal appearance of th® benetciare. It is just
the same when a parson snuffles that “the pmvers
of the congregation are desired for a lady who is
seriously ill.” You flop down on your knees and
•wonder whether the object of your spiritual
charity is young and pretty. As a rule, she is
about 96, and ought to have been burled 20 years
back.
The physician, Dr. R.Schuette, who healed
so many others, was unable to heal himself. The
oible relates that he died on the 17ch inst. from the
effects of an operation to which he had submitted
in the hops of obtaining freedom from a liver-
affection which had long oppressed him. For 11
years he was honorary surgeon to Bt. Vincent’s
Hospital, Sydney, but resigned when leaving for
Germany three years ago to place himself under
treatment in order to obtain relief from his
ojbscure malady. The news of his death has been
regretfully received by all whom he ever attended
In his professional capacity, as well as by his
friends In the medical and social world. Dr
Schuette was an accomplished and enthusiastic
surgeon—one out of the half-dozen poss“ssed by
Australia.
In a certain Queensland town lives a fat
planter who periodically goes on a regulation
"burst.” Seme years ago he was just starting
on a glorious spree in town when a new-chum
policeman, unconscious of the fact that the
offender was a J.P., arrested him, and with some
trouble lodged him in the local “jug.” Next
morning, when our drunken justice came to his
senses, he was released by the sergeant, who
apologised for causing his worship such annoyance
but as the charge was filed, however, the J.P. had
to appear in court and answer the summons. None
of the local magistrates attending, our head-sore
dispenser of justice mounted the bonoh, and, seat-
ing himself, called out, "Regina versus A.B.’
(mentioning his own name). Looking around the
court, he exclaimed with great solemnity, "As
there is no appearance of Regina, I dismiss the
case. The court stands adjourned.”
"Vanity Fair on Lord RoseberyLord
Koseberry is a sharp, clever young man. not
°7® r ni £ e feeling, or over rich in scru-
pl©o, who looks only to his own personal
career, and who has backed Mr. Gladstone
because he believed that to be the way to a
quick and great career. Just as he went into
racing merely to get his name into the newspapers,
just as he would have pledged his life for the
money that would enable him to make a figure In
the world, so he planked down all his ready clerer-
ness on Mr, Gladstone in the belief that he would
thus best aid and further the career of Lord Rose-
bery, because Mr. Gladstone stood highest in the
betting. There is nothing more-and nothing lees
—m Lord Rosebery than this.” The same high-
Tory authority describes Mr. Childers as " vain,
pompous, a confirmed toady of Mr. Gladstone,
and an insatiate office-seeker, office-keeper, and
pensioner. fl« lives but by Mr. Gladstone, and
under Mr. Gladstone’s shadow alone can thrive,
and as be never had any ascertainable principles
of public policy he has not had to abandon any.”
For a unique specimen of grovel, a letter
addressed to the Mayor of Footscray (M«lb.)
oarries off the cake:-" Sir,—As an old resident, I
beg leave to ask your lordship whether you would
“UNDER TWO FLAGS”
an< L w £ fe wlth an invitation to your
lordship a ball, whioh would be much esteemed
by your lordship s faithful servant.” It needs no
tc L f V, red v. l , ot that the toad-eating “old
resident will himself become a full-blown
binffrtnm nf«« full of * lme - f or of such is the
tf? of councillors. If the dear old man can
only attain to the chain of office by the time Ber-
we ffues ® he *lll die a baronet. In
n^??if 0 at e« n ATK e c^ n Jl ear him rolling out a little
?£u£ e 3?. 4° Alb £ rt Edward, something after this
?!n le ~ ± Your K °y«l Highness, on behalf of my
f to assure your Royal
Highness of the joy which we, the loyal subjects
of your Royal Highness’s mother, feel in receiving
your Royal Highness’s mother’s son, and that
four Royal Highness may be graciously pleased
to stay to luncheon, is the fervent prayer of your
Herv ants.” These “old
S2S&i t£?£jSSSL t * Mm the r °°“ 01 t6e
Ti-iannVi t B * \ fc . was cabled that Mr.
tmria Ph ft? oS th t n 1 ’ T X a CU nT e Commissioner for Vic-
A he la , d o-Colpnial Exhibition, had
declined to accept a C.M.G.-ship,” and now it is
Jrirma wajr l rom Eogland that the illus-
has “declined to at-
°S the occasion of the newly-
dooorated Australian grovellers being invented
withtheir baub'es by the hands of Qoean Yio-
7?* ctoria, Regina et imperatrix.
God) Defender of the Faith,
will feel when she learns for the first time that the
magnificent Joe Bosisto has not only refused to
become a Companion of: nobodies in the order
presided over by a saint who was a fraudulent
contractor, but has refused to visit her at the
castle I It was stated in the papers the other day
that this Bosisto man refused to be a C.MYG. be-
cause he considered himself {entitled to aK.C.M.G -
ship. There are a lot of worse and less honest men
than Joseph Bosisto enrolled in the ranki of
knighthood But why it should be telegraphed to
Australia that Mr. Joseph Bosisto (who when at
home in Australia will sell you a blue-pill and
thank you for your little threepence) has SDurned
royalty and contemptuously rejected a title which
would sit awkwardly on a man who gets his living
by making gum-oil and selling babies’ puff-boxeß
and feeding-bottles is and must ever remain a
deep and inscrutable mystery.
‘ Some men are born for great things,”
but It is not often that a man rises to the eminent
position of a chief justice because the weather
was too cold to allow of him being a clerk of petty
sessions. Sir Jimes Prendergast, of New Zealand,
started his oolonial career as C P.S. at Maryborough
(Vio.) in the early days, and immediately after his
accession the authorities at Melbourne began to
be worried by the receipt of sheets of foolscap
covered with cuneiform inscriptions and footed
by a signature that looked like a fight between a
spider and a gridiron, at first, little notice was
taken of the matter, it being concluded that the
documents were copies of Belshazzar’s washing-
bill, or something of the kind, which had gone
“tray. and they wcre simply re-directed to “ Pest
Office, Babylon : to be left till called for,” and
passed on. At length, however, the trouble be-
came too great for human endurance, and It being
ciscoyered that tbe illegible sorrows in question
issued from Maryborough, a commission of
inquiry was sent up. They found that Mr.
Prendergast’s office consisted of an old Govern-
ment tent pitched on a mud bank, the flooring
consisting of one inch of water and three of Irish
bog, and as it was the depth of winter and bitterly
cola a little ice lent variety to the scene. Inside
this cloth mansion a benumbed clerk of petty
sessions was making pot-hooks and hangers in his
official capacity as a member of the Civil service,
his st ffened fingers rendering it impossible to pro-
duce anything more legible. The Commission, as
in duty bound, inspected and reported on the blue-
nosed officer, but they did not take extenuating
circumstances into account in these days, and Mr.
Prendcrgast received his dismissal. His eariy
ambition being thus nipped in the bud he took to
the law for consolation, and is now a Chief Justice
with a title and a gas-stove instead of a bush
Dogberry in a leaky tent. His story should point
a valuable moral to young men who are unable to
write deoently in cold weather.
The gooly and peaceful little town of Gee-
lopg has been thrown into an excited frame of
mina by the capture of another monster shark in
Corip Bay. Tnis last gentleman is 18ft. 4in. in
length, and is confidently believed to have died a
Free-thinker.
PEPPER AND SALT.
“ It is understood that, in response to the
j oint memorial of the Agents-General for the Aus-
tralian colonies, His Royal Highness the Prince of
Wales has replied regretting that he cannot accept
their Invitation to visit the Australian colonies
next year.— Cablegram.
The Argus London correspondent (not the
Vug.) writes that “ the only person who wore a
low-crowned hat at the garden party of Princess
Louise, at Kensington palace, was a member of the
Victorian Commission, while for vulgarity and an
utter absenoe of good breeding, one or two other
visitors from the same colony have already
achieved undying notoriety.” Whether the Argus
man is an authority upon the vulgarity and good
breeding of those other people is a question for
the gods to decide, but a stern sense of duty de-
mands that we shall address a few
Moral,
Good sir, we like your sentiments in one respect,-
but pray,
How came you to be there at all? You should
have stopped away.
The man who likes to go to Rome should do as :
Romans do;
They all were snobs, perhaps—but none so great a
snob as you.
* * *
“Sergeant Grimes, of Queensland, who’
scored 61 points in the first stage of the Queen’s
Prize, wins £2 for his score.”-Reuter’s telegram.
A London paper, speaking of the edifying"
display of busts at the Queen’s last Drawing-room ,<•
says;—“ln this category came the jooulino charms
CRUSHRD AGAIN
The mayor he sat in his robes of state.
With a rubicund face and a glist’ning pate;
His heart throbbed fast and his pulse beat high,
His lips were blanched and his tongue was dry,
And he cried, “ Oh I what will that answer be!
Shall I die a knight or a C.M.G ?”
A boy oh the beach at Manly played
With a little pail and a wooden spade;
But when he had dug the shnds awhile,
In a weary, strange, abstracted style,
He, too, sat down and remarked “Ah, me!
What, 01 what will the ansvrer be
The matron arrayed in rioh raiment rare,
Lolled back at ease in her lounging-chair,
And murmured, “Down, fluttering heart I keep
still,
Whom will he take for the first quadrille ?
Bhall I have the bliss to be vis-a-vU?
W hat will His Highness’s answer be ?”
The Member of Parliament, smiling and sleek,
Thought, “ Will He drop in when I m going to
speak ?”
And the maiden she twiddled her little pink
thumbs,
Sighing, “ How shall I look when His Highness
comes ?”
’Twas the topio at dinner and afternoon-tea,
What would His Highness’s answer be ?
Plain Bill he prepared an Imperial speech,-
The parson a suitable sermon to preaoh ;
The dudes on the " block” had a mystified aif
(They wondered what neckties His Highness would
wear);
Burdett, too —oh Ino one so happy as he,
As he prattles of Bertie and glories to be.
The papers appeared with their sorrowful tale,
And the small boy at Manly Indulged in a wail;
The Mayor, all disconsolate, plays with his chain;
The matron will never be happy again;
The member he skulks with a scowl to his place;
The maiden is hiding her dear little face;
Plain Bill, dudes, Burdett and the parson are
dumb—
For the cable has told ’em the Prince cannot come.
LINES TO THE LOW-CROWED HAT.
He was a sturdy colonist, who loathed all social
sham,
Who mocked the gilded upper-ten and couldn’t
bear their “jam;”
It mattered not to him a bit how other swells were
dressed,
He only pleased himself, and wore the tile that
suited best.
That forest black of cbimncy-pois he looked upon
with scorn
(His special style of beauty chimney-pots did not
‘ adorn),
And possibly (perohance ’twas hot) he saw no
reason why
A chap should sport a oollar, or bo stifled with a
tie.
A long frock coat, and trousers tight, and other
fal-de-rals,
He rightly deemed ’em vanities wherewith to
“mash” the gals;
And as for gloves, why, bless your ’art I he’d never
worn ’em yet—
The symbols they of “goin’ farst and gettin’ inter
debt.”
A bowier- at was good enough for any king or 1
queen,
So long as he’d got somethin’ on, why, that was al
serene;
He was a 6turdy colonist, who loathed all eoshal
sham,
And as for what the people thort—he didn’t care a
d n.
Joyful tidings! Blessed story 1
Eergcant Grimes’ name
Glistens on the page of glory—
On the scroll of Fame!
As a climax to his drillings
He has landed forty shillings.
With our ecstacies of pleasure
Bore misgivings blend,
Lest our Grimes his hard-won treasure
Recklessly should spend;
Wc are fearful, Baron Rooter,
That success may spoil our shooter.
In the hour of his elation,
Grimes (we fear the worst)
May give way to dissipation—
Go upon the burst;
Then— alas! the prospect frightens—
He’d b e fined those forty “white ’uns.”


of Btout, elderly women, whom deoency should
have prompted to keep covered.” The paragraph
has excited our curiosity to an extent that is posi-
tively painful.
A lady v ho very narrowly escaped being
a real poetesr, publishes an original “ In Memo-
riam ” poem in the Melbourne A ge.
" I am all alone in my chamber now,
And the midnight hour is near,
And the faggots' crack and the clock’s dull tick
Are the only sounds I hear.
And over my soul In its solitude
Sweet feelings of sadness glide,
For my heart and my eyes are full when I think
Of my dear husband, who departedfor a better
home above.”
This little work is notlackiig in promise, although
the last line requires a good deal of pruning. With
the view of enoouraging the fair authoress to per-
severe, we will give her ideas a more effective
settiDg:—
“At the re-hearing of the divoroe suit,
Crawford v. Crawfcrd and Dllke, Sir Charles Dilke,
in cross-examination, admitted that he had been
guilty of indiscretions 11 years ago. He denied
every accusation of immoral conduct with Mrs.
Crawford.”—(Cablegram)
WHAT IS ITP
We’ve read about cheeks with the “tint of the
rose,”
Of lips “red as cherries,” and eyes “black as
sloes,”
Of forms “like Diana’s,” and “soft, wreathing
arms
But what, prithee tell us, are "joggliDg oharms ?”
We’ve dreamt about necks that were " whiter than
milk,”
We’ve longed for a lock that was “softer than
silk
’Hi phrases like these that the youDg author
farms—
But what, prithee tell us, are “ joggliDg charms
A band that’s “transparent” we've wanted to
clasp,
As also the slim little " waist of a wasp ’’;
But we never yet heard of young misses or marms
Who vanquished the men with their " joggling
charms.”
I am all alone in my chamber,
And the midnight hour approaches—
That hour so witching when, out in the hitching,
Swarm myriads of cockroaches.
And my soul is wrapped in sadness,
As with sorrowing feet on the fender,
I think of lest hubby, so smiling and chubby—
A gem of the maaoullxe gender.
POOR MAN!
We wish you luck, unhappy Charles,
And trust that story quite “ washed
In spite of your traducer’s snarls
We'll look on you as white-washed;
One can’t pass judgment now, you know,
On things you did so long ago.
Most men are giddy in their youth,
A little wild and reckless,
Who in their middle age, forsooth,
Are spoken of as specfcless ;
Why even we, good man alive 1
Were indiscreet in “ seventy-five.”
That story which the wife disclosed,
So full of sad sensation,
Was (as we always had supposed)
A frenzied fabrication.
No doubt she only dreamt, poor child,
That ‘‘Charley ” was a little wild.
Henceforth the world will close its ears
To whispers meant to hurt you—
Suffice it, that for all these years
You’ve led a life of virtue;
Few baronets keep good so long—
The wonder is you e'er “ went wrong.”
Political
Points
Dan O’Connor seems to be trying hard
to take the place of Frawncis Abigail ai Parkes’
henohman.
The Queensland Treasurer reports that
“the finances of the colony are in a sound condi-
tion." He has only spent £2OJ,OCO more than the
income. Next year it is expected the shortage
will be £400,000, and then the finances will be twice
as sound as before
At [Downpatrick, four lads were charged,
under an Act of Edward 111, with disorderly con-
duct by shouting and cheering for Home Rule
after ten o’clock at night. They were sentenced
to three months’ imprisonment. Is it any wonder
that Irishmen want the right to govern them-
selves.
The “Knights of the most ancient and
most noble order of tho Thistle ” we«r a beautiful
sketch of that prickly weed in their breasts when
in full Jubilee rig. That 1s why a greengrocer’s
mule, when ho meets ono ol th« sa haughty nobles,
always folds his forelegs around him, and greets
him cs his long lost brother.
Thus the cable—“ The Queen has been
pleased to accept the resignation of Mr. Gladstone
and his colleagues.” The cable speaks true this
time. The Queen must have been very much
pleased to*see the Grand Old Reformer out with
the prospect of bringing in the Grim Old Main-
tainer of Abuses in his stead.
The motion for the total abolition of capi-
tal punishment, when brought before the British
House of Commons about three months ago, was
defeated by a majority of 55 In 1881 it was lost by
96 votes, and in 1877 by 105. Apparently the oppo-
nents of this reform are gradually getting hanged
or otherwise cleared out of the way.
T It is rumoured that a monster petition,
calling upon Governor CariDgton to dissolve the
N.S.W. Parliament, is about to be got up by a
few of Bir Henry Parkes’ supporters. That is to
say, that having failed to do anything by a direct
attaofe, they propose to sneak in over the fence
5 e a . native cat that scents a piece of ancient
liver in the back yard.
The Melbourne Agb is the only newspaper
ivL* s A ralli J, calling' itself a Democratic organ
ffiS said nothing in favour of Home Rule for Ire-
land! during the recent excitement which has been
£™ d }J oe , d ln V} 6 colonirs by Mr. Gladstone’s Irish
P r . op cBals. It’s time Victorian democracy ob-
truer exponent of its principles than
David Syme s newspaper.
Neild’s meeting in Paddington last
week, there was a contingent of ladies in the front
? e j,’ cheered and clapped John Cassius
ioudiy throughout his address. The ladies were
possibly brought there by the nine hours’ spouter,
w “°» no doubt, wanted to show them what he was
capable of deing in the event of their ever chal-
lenging him to a talking matoh.
Junius Brutus writes ;—“ A Western
squatter last year got £lOOO a month for four
months for agistment. His rentai to Government
was under a £lOO a year. This is a little item that
does not crop out in the new land crusade. This
crusade is the most infenal humbug going, and is
being worked by the banks. If the Parliament
gives way to the squatters the banks will realise
enormous profits.
London Moonshine, a yelping little Tory
paper, whines out Its lament toat the property
qualification for the House of Commons has been
abolished. This is really a very small grievance.
Moonshine should remember the pillory, the
death-penalty for sheep stealing, rotten boroughs,
Catholio persecution, religious intolerance, and
royal tyranny and then evolve one comprehensive,
soul-rending howl over the whole lot. And if the
little rag «xpires in a paroxysm of grief the world
will not stop rolling in order to attead the funeral.
The members of Parliament present at the
Orange Celebration in Sydney on the I2th of July,
were:—Meters. Jaoob Garrard and J. S. Hawthorne
(Balmain), Francis Abigail (West Sydney), W. J.
Foster (Newtown), John Davies, C.M.G. (South
Bydney), John Cash Neild (Paddington), J. Creer
(Newcastle), A. Bowman (the Hawkesbury), T. R
Smith, and Bir Henry P»rkes. We mention the
names of these legislators now so that such of their
constituents, who do not desire to promote aud
perpetuate sectarian strife and ill-feeling ia this
young country, may bear them in mind at the
next general election.
AT THE MAYOR’S FANCY DRESS BALL.
MR. CUSSTIS (in costume of the phsf): " HELLO!BROWN, YOU HERE?’"
BROWN (in ordinary evening dress): “YES, I’M HERE IN THE COSTUME OF A GENTLEMAN
OF THE LATTER HALF OF THE PRESENT CENTURY.”
MR. CUSSTIS: "AND YET I KNEW YOU AT ONCE ! ”
A West Australian journal suggests as a
means of meeting the Chinese difficulty to abolish
the poll-tax now levied and oharge a heavy exit-
tax instead on all who leave the colony. The
writer reckons that the children of the eua would
leave all the same, as they all have a desire to die
at home if possible, and he thinks it would be
easier to collect £ 100 a head from the compara-
tively rich Mongol who is goiDg away than £lO
from th» poor one just arriving. This is The
Bulletin's own copyright idea, first mooted in
these columns many months ago.
It is not mentioned in any of the Bydney
papers that Mr. Abigail had aa exceediogly bad
quarter of an hour at a recent meeting of opera-
tives within the bounds of his own constituency.
His reception was exceedingly unpleasant, and
instead of justifying his present position with the
Opposition, he dilated upon some services alleged
to have been rendered in the past. Electors have
short memories, but not too short to prevent
Fonettc Frawncisand his colleague, Dan. O Con-
nor, from meeting with defeat if a prema-
ture dissolution is granted to this Parliament.
It is commonly asserted that Dan. O’Con-
nor’s alleged curtain performance at the Ked-
mond meeting has lately been imitated by a Severer
man tnan Dan.—Bir Henry Parkes, to wit. The
report goes that Sir Henry went out to J B
Neild’s Paddington meeting, but the appeara"ce
and tone of tbe audience were so unpromising that
he departed in much haste If this be true, and it
is stroDgly affirmed, it affords a proof of tbe
results of evil companionship. By coasorting with
Dan., Sir Henry has adopted some of Din’s
devices. But after ail, we don’t know whether
Dan. Is not sure to suffer most from the political
companionship.
Reynolds’ Newspaper of Juae 13:—
" In London during the week only two clergymen
of the State Church appeared in the law courts
This is an unusually small number, and one is led’
to think that the example of the Salvation Army
is improving the morals of the metropolitan clergy
One of these State-paid saviours of souls, the Rev*
C. A. Burleigh Hare, of Seaton Carew, Durham’
was committed for trial on a charge of inciting a
hoy to commit an unnatural offence. The other
a Rev. Mr, Fish, rector of St. Margaret Pattens and
St. Gabriel, in the city—with an income of £833 a
year and an empty church—was committed to
prison for a debt of £7 10i. due to a trader in Ful-
ham. These are the kind of men to whom we
entrust the charge of our souls and of our sons
and daughters. Would such things be possible in
a voluntary establishment ? The sooner we abolish
this abominably corrupt Church the better it will
be for the morality of the nation.”
This is how the Hon. 8. S. Cox, or, as he is
termed, Sunset Cox, of N.S.W., who has been on
S 3 the British occupation in Egypt:
??e 7.000,000 of people in unfortunate Egypt
PPJyd be very rich, very comfortable, very happy,
if they could only g<-t rid of the fearful disease of
government.’ They are robbed by taxes and by
aristocracy until the millions are abject, poverty-
stricken slaves without a hope on earth beyond
the next meal.” “ The English are everywhere in
Egypt, he says—“ in the slums of Cairo and the
ball-rooms of Alexandria the red-ooat flourishes.
And he is as insolent and truoulent there as every-
where else, regarding all other Europeans as
foreigners ’ and abettors of the ‘ rebels.’ ”
At a reoent meeting of tailors in London to
protest against the “sweating” system, some ex-
t.-aordinary, yet apparently true, statements were
made. Sixteen hours a day is said to be the usual
time of labour, and yet, even so, the operatives
can earn only just enough to supply the barest
necessaries of existence, and must live eight or
ten in a room. The Faotory Acts ara said to be
systematically avoided, the masters marching
their hands out at one door as the inspectors come
in at the other. Some of the work is done in dens
which are noisome and unhealthy to a degree, and
it is alleged that infeotiouß diseases are continu-
ally spread by this means. One tailor said that he
had made a coat for ihe mayor of an English city
in a filthy den above still filthier stables. Resolu-
tions wc re passed demanding a reduction of the
hours of labour to twelve. ,
How to make prisoners pay. In Canton
Neuchatel, a good handicraft is taught to every
prisoner, and all who are well-behaved are, after a
period, placed outside the prison with a master of
the trade which they have severally learned,
under the oversight of the polioe and of a member
of a voluntary committee. This committee is
composed of 1400 aotive members, out of a total
population of 102,000. The prisoner, when “ pro-
visionally liberated,” has to preteat himself every
week to his patron, who receives the reports of
his master and of the police. The patron sends an
abstraot of these reports to the governor of the
prison, and in this way. if his conduct remains
good, the man's liberty is gradually restored and
he regains his pc sltion in society—with the addi-
tional advantages of experience of discipline and
knowledge of a trade. Well may M. de Laveleye,
in describing this system, say that a Swiss canton
is in some things a century in advance of the rest
of the world.— Pall Mall.
It is not likely that the decision of the
N.S.W. Assembly on Mr. Fester’s motion, ques-
tioning the propriety of the expulsion of Mr.
Wisdom, will be final. That Mr. Barton had great
provocation for his action must be admitted, and
it is also certain that Mr. Wisdom deserved
nothing less; but at the same time there are grave
doubts as to the power of a Speaker to expel a
member on his sole authority under any set of
circumstances whatever. To assert that he can
do so, is to hand over to any future Speaker the
power to exclude members at his own arbitrary
will. It is not disputed that another, and a per-
fectly lawful course, was open to the Speaker;
and, by acting outside of all precedent, he seems
to have committed the same error as in the in-
troduction of the Iron Hand rules. Those rules
might have been legally adopted by means of a
certain defined procadure, but by introducing
them otherwise, Mr. Barton exposed himself to
the adverse decision of the courts. It will pro-
bably be the same in this case.
Editor Bulletin,— ’Tit hardly worth
while your quoting statistics to prove the general
ignorance of the Irish peasantry in face of this
awful fact. At the elose of February, ’BB, in many
parts of Western Ireland the farmers had already
tilled, manured, and eut the land into ridges to re-
ceive the seed which up to that time they hadn’t
got to put into the soil. And are those miserables
expected to send their children hungry and naked
to school ? Under happier circumstances there is
no people prepared to make so many sacrifices in
the cause of education as the Irish. There is no
father who takes more pride in the “ schooling ”
of his children than the Irishman, however igno-
rant, and there is no boy who on the average does
more credit to his tutor than the son of the
Irish toiler. Look at the prize-lists of the
colonial universities—look at the lists of colonial-
made barristers and doctors, and enquire as to the
nationality and means of the parents of the men
whose names are enrolled thereon, if you would
have proof of this. It would, perhaps, te too
bold to assert that the Irish student outpaces all
competitors, the Hebrew alone exaepted, in the
race for scholastic honors; but it may safely be
said that he far more than holds his own against
all comers in the colonies, and that the same
eagerness and capability for mental improvement
displayed by him in the free land of Australia
would be shown by him under altered conditions,
even in his native bogs.—Yours, truly, Paddy.
• Leioester, Tom Cannon, the
jockey, has bought the local living to insure a re
newal of the lease of the parson’s glebe as a raoe
course, and also the Black Dog public-house to in
sure the sale of drink on the course. Here is
lovely illustration of the good old English Tory
system. An opulent jockey drives the representa-
tives of the Almighty and of the Evil One in
double harness. Attenborough, the London
pawnbroker, owns, or lately owned several livings
in the Church of England. By-and-bye wn shall
have Aaron Waxman, or some other 1400 per
shenter, with in Anglican bishopric in his breeches-
pocket and 30 incumbencies in his combination
safe. Now-a-daya even Henniker Heaton wants to
« ®ay in the making of an Archbishop.
At the aforesaid Oadby, by the way, last Derby
Day, nine boys were each ordered to pay 3s. Od.
oosts, or to suffer three days’ hard labour, for
playing a harmless game of chanoe called boat-
raoing. lhe game consisted in sailing bits of stick
down the brook, the ow n er of the winning “ boat ”
drawing the stakes. Whether the stakes were
farthings or marbles does not apoear. The magis-
trates who are responsible for these proceedings
are three military Tories. Colonel Mansergh,
Colonel Seddon, and Major Knight. This is strain!
ing at a gnat and swallowing a camel with a ven-
geance. Arlstooratio patrons of the turf not only
set up a raeeoourso, but use their money to con-
trol church property in the interests of sport, and
then the magistrates lino boys for doing with bits
of stiok what “their betters ” do with racehorses,
buch are the doings which the Imperial Federa-
tionist snobs of the oolonies go to England to prop
The Victorian Protectionists have oome to
loggerheads among themselves over the ques-
tion of raising the duty on imported woollens
mi? m • per cent - to eighteenpence per pound,
lhe increased impost is proposed mainly
m „, 0 interests of the Geelong woollen
mills, which, like everything else in that
gospel-governed town, are in a somewhat dead
and alive condition. Fifteen per cent, duty is
found insufficient to protect the drowsy Gee-
longeese against English manufacturers with
cheaper labour, improved machinery, and, above
* jnore ' go.” Mill-owners produce the wrong
stuff in the wrong war, and unless a sympathetic
Government does something P.D.Q. (whish, being
interpreted means) “pretty darn quick’’) this
weak-kneed industry is doomed. Undoubtedly, it
would only be in accordance with the true prin-
ciples of Protection that a duty should be imposed
on woollen goods sufficiently heavy to secure a
monopoly for the looal manufacturers, ftev it
should be compulsory on evety Victorian to clothe
his nakedness in Victorian-made garments. But
on the other hand, the clothiers—the makers-up—
are protesting agaiDst any change, whioh would
interfere witn their Protection. They export
some £257,000 of slops annually, most of which
trade must be lost if the importation of Eng-
lish shoddy is saddled with an extra burden.
Some of the clothiers go so far as to say
that under suoh circumstances, all the ready-
made togs worn in Victoria would come direct
from London, unless aomCßtore duty were clapped
upon them, as well as goeds in the piece. The
interests of the enterprising clothiers and the
sleepy-headed mill-owners are directly antago-
nistic. Both parties want protc ction against Eng-
land, but whereas the Victorian: manufacturers
demand a prohibitive duty on cloth, their an-
tagonists only demand a duty on clothes.
Although the makieg-up trade of Victoria is a
far bigger thing than its tweed manufacture, yet,
from a true Protectionist standpoint, the
clothiers have all the worst of the argument.
With an abundance of the raw material ready to
band, a Protectionist Government is untrue to its
principles if it doesn’t fester woollen manufac-
tures at any oost. The right men would run mills
quick enough if the whole trade of the coJodv
were assured to them. To sacrifice the manufac-
ture of woollen goods for the sake of the clothiers,
is to protect the branches while cutting ihe root.
It is like discouraging local wheat-raising in the
interests of looal bakers. It now appears that the
Government has arranged a feeble compromise
by putting 5 per cent, extra duty only on piece
woollens and sl ops alike.
Helen Hart, the gentle feminine who re-
eentJy attempted to cowhide a Castlemaine editor,
and was Jgnominiously rolled on the office lloor
Jpctured on "Women’s Sights,” at Newmarket
iVic.h the other evening, and was there presented
with a oostly bouquet of ripe cauliflowers and
decayed cabbages; alto, a tasty wreath of turnips,
by two admiriDg gentlemen of the district. In-
stead of getting out her little whip, and flagellat-
ing the admiring gentlemen, artful Helen stood
them before the Kensington Bench, and they sor-
ro wfully|parted £23 before leaving for the country.
Miss Hart may go spouting through the length
and breadth of Victoria for Victoria’s good, but
she 11 have to And her own vegetables in future.
In the country districts of N.B.W. the
people seem to be getting a little tired of the
‘‘ Escaped Nun,” and almost wish she had fallen
over something and been recaptured when she
made her famous retreat from the convent. At
YouDg, especially, her meetings were a compara-
tive failure, but the lady herself was as gritty as a
wet dog that has fallen down a gravel-pit, and in-
stead of losing hrart she bounced the whole com-
munity for not paying to listen to her Yankee
yarns. Though an apostle of liberty, she gives no
one liberty to stay away from her meetings, and,
accordingly, she anathematised the absent parsons
and sat upon the local storekeepers, who, she said,
dared not roll up for fear of being boycotted by
their Catholic customers. Apparently to reason
with this O’Gorman in petticoats is about as pro-
fitable as to argue with a kangaroo on the full hop,
but till we met her we never fully realised what a
noble work the Catholic Chureh was doing in
keeping nuns locked up, and we would like to
know why they did not chain this particular one
to the convent-pump rather than let her loose upon
an umrotected community.
THE LAST REQUEST.
There have been many curious coincidences in
the world of sport, and many instances of super-
stition are recorded, but we question whether the
annals of coursing offer a more singular illustration
of mingled chance end superstition than the
victory of The Last Request in the Waterloo Cup
for £5OO, run at the Oval, Melbourne, last Friday.
The dog was originally owned by the late Thomas
Dodds, who occupied the position of private trainer
to Sir William Clarke. This animal was always a
great favorite w ith Dodds, who by will beq ueathei
him to Mr. Haslett, of Coburg. His dying in-
junction was that the dog should be well taken
care of, and not allowed to engage in any coursing
competition until the Cup was run for. He ex-
pressed tis firm belief that his favorite greyhound
would carry off what in coursing circles is known
as the “blue ribbon” of the leash in Australia.
And t he ruling passion being strong even in death,
he was extremely anxious on the subject. His
last wish was faithfully regarded, and with re-
spectful appropriateness tbe dead trainer’s pet was
named “The Last Request.” Poor Dodd's good
opinion of his favorite was fully berne out by the
dog winning all its courses in brilliant style, and
appropriating the coveted prize, thus adding a
romantio incident to the ehronieles of the sport of
eour3ing. Last requests are generally faithfully
honored. A notable one which a short time since
came under our observation was that of a gentle-
man well and prominently known, who dying of
Bright's diseass, made the re quest that a neighbor—
a friend Bince boyhood—and suffering from the
same comp'aint as himself, would try Warner’s
safe cure before it was too late. The request was
complied with, and the friend recovered. Most
gratefully does the friend cherish the memory of
the departed, who, surrounded by physicians,
would not allow their patient to try that whioh
has snatched thiJTisands from the brink of the
grave. It is better to request intelligent treatment
before too late, and thus postpone, as long as
possible, the day of Last Requests.
If suffering from mental depression take
Wolfe’s ISchnappg.


rp HIA T K B BO TA L.
tv illiamson, Garit»b and Mubgboti, Managers.
Lessee, Mr. B. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
FAREWELL PERFORMANCES of tho
WILLIAMSON SEASON.
LABT NIGHT BUT ONE
of the
WILLIAMSONS.
Maggie Moore as Biddy Ronan,
Mr. Williamson as Jim Farron,
in the
SHADOWS OF A GREAT CITY.
Easiness Manager for Mr. Williamson, Mr. Hughes.
Prices as usual. Box plan now open.
SATURDAY, 31st JULY, first production in
Bedney, of the grand Specfcaoular Drama,
THE PEARL DIVERS-
Royal standard theatre,
Castlereagh-stbeet,
Between Liverpool and Bathurst streets.
Lessee ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Manager for Mr. 5. Bmiib... Mr. J. Grant.
Under the Management of Mr. D ampler.
Business Manager .. ... Mr. Fred. Gunther
THIS AND EVERY EVENING,
a drama (in 6 tableaux), written expressly for Mr.
Dampier by Thomas Somers. Eaq ,and entit ed
VOICES OF THE NIGHT
VOICES OF THE NIGHT.
Charles Moonee Ponds, Esq. (a new w D tu»®
chum awaiting remittances) Mr. DAMPIER.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s Music Warehouse.
“ Day Tickets at Cole’s Book Arcade.
j& OADIMT OF MUSIC
Proprietor and Manager.. F. B. Hisooeks.
Business Manager .. .. A. L. Cunard.
T2l NIGHTS T2l
of the veritable _
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and SPECIALITY UNION.
IN THBIR UNRIVALLED ENTERTAINMENT.
The only real exponents of pure and refined
Minstrelsy in tne whole of Australasia. Constant
changes of programmes, and always new novelties.
SATURDAY EVENING, July 31st,
the latest and most attractive novelty that has
ever visited Australia, the
RAYNOR BROTHERS (Harry and Charles),
the celebrated Eccentric Corned ana and Musical
Artistes, who will make their first appearance in
coDiunction with Hiscocks' Federal Minstrels.
Admission—Fauteills. 45.; Stalls, 35.; Parquette.
25.; Balcony, Is. Plan ot Seats at Nicholson s.
Day tiokets at Mr. Harrison’s, Castlereagh-street.
HALL.
ALHAMBRA MUSIC
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager ... ...
Business and Stage Manager ...
Mr. Frank Smith.
Mr. E. Shipp.
The Home of Minstrelsy and Mirth.
,The Popular and Fashionable Resort.
TO-NIGHT, and every evening during the week,
THE ALHAMBRA VARIETY and SPECIALTY
UNION in their refined entertainment.
MINBTELSY, OLIO, and FARCE.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 3s: stalls, 1s;
balcony, Is.
Every Sunday Night, Grand Concert Spirituel,
at 7.30 o’clock.
M
ISSBS JORAN’S FIRST GRAND CONCERT.
FRIDAY, JULY 30.-YM.C.A. HALL.
Under the patronage and in presence of
H.E. the GOVERNOR and LADY CARRINGTON,
t Being' the First Performance in Australia of the
marvellous young instrumentalists, the Misses
LUL4, PAULINE and RLISE
LULA, PAULINE and ELISE
Planistes and Violinist,
Who will he assisted by
Madame BOEMA and Madame CHRISTIAN
(Who remain specially for tho Joran Concerts),
And Bignor LUIGI LEN ./lON I
(First appearance), being an unprecedented
VOCAL AND INSTRUMENTAL COMBINATION.
Plan of Seats at Nicholson's New Warehouse.
Magnificent Programme To-morrow.
' R, S. SMYTHE.
Second Concert:
THURSDAY, Aug. sth.
TT YNOH FAMILY BELIrRINGEftI
I i (Organised 1867).
Manager Harry Lynch.
NORTHERN TOUR.
Cundleton—Thursday, July 29
Wing-ham—Friday and Saturday, July 30 and 3i
Copeland—Monday 1 August 2
Stroud—Tuesday, August 3
Bulla Delah— Wednesday, August 4
Stroud—Thursday, August 5
Clarenca Town-Friday, August 6
Dungog—Saturday and Monday, August 7 and 9
Paterson— Tuesday, August 10
Raymond Terrace—Wednesday, August 11.
Maitland and Newcastle to follow.
Admission—4s., 3a. and 2a. Doors open at 7.30,
Overture at 8.
G
T T
A I B
Lessee
Business Manager.
THEATRE.
.. Mr. John Solomon
.. Mr. B. N. Jones.
Complimentary Testimonial Benefit, tendered to
Mr. John Solomon (Lessee), by Mr. John F. Sheri-
dan, FRIDAY Evening, Jail 30
ttnder the distinguished patronage and presenoe
of the Worshipful the Mayor of Sydney, John
Y Hg most positively the LAST NIGHT of Fun
on the Bristol. The Widow's Farewell.
READING.
T
HOU G H T
(Btuart Cumberland's Rival)
PROF. T. PROUD’S
EXTRAORDINARY ILLUSTRATION OF
DIVINING UNUTTERED THOUGHTS.
Western Tour.—Return Visit.
Mount Victoria-Friday, July 30.
(Mudgee, Bathurst, Orange, &0., to follow).
I do everything done by Stuart Cumberland in
Sydney.
MR HORITIO GILBERT PARKER,
The Canadian Poet and Shakesperian Reciter,
will give a series of Friday Evening RECITALS
and LECTURES, beginning on FRIDAY EVEN-
ING, 13 h August.
Dickens Christmas Carol .. Friday, Aug. 13
Julius t rosar .. .. •• •• Friday, Aug. 30
Lecture on a meric An Humourists lu’.d Ay, Aug.
Othello or Hamlet Friday, Sept 3
Recurved Beat Tiokets for Course, 10 1. ; single
Tickets, 3j. and 39,
Box plan and tickets at Pallng’p, George street.
J. HOLLOWAY
# and
MISS ESSIE JENYNS,
supported by their especially selected Company,
in
“ A Ring of Iron,” “ A Mad Marriage,” “ The
Broken Idol,” “Romeo and Juliet,” “Much Adi
About Nothing,” “As You Like It,” &c., &c.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE, JUNE 7th,
fbr Thirteen Weeks.
C
I T Y HA
(LATE THEATRE ROYAL).
MR..H. N. ABBOTT
Having Leased the above Building for a term of
years, has at great cost Remodelled, Redecor-
ated, and Transformed the entire
Auditorium into
A MAGNIFICENT HALL,
Capable of Accommodating 3000 Persons,
And can r ow b 2 engaged for
BALLS, CONCERTS, BAZAARS, AND ALL
ENTERTAINMENTS.
THE HALL CONTAINS A FLOOR FOR
DANCING, 70 x 60 FEE l>.
For Hire, apply
H. N. ABBOTT,
Opera House,
Auckland.
THEATRE ROYAL,
Rwckhampton.
THE above favourite house of Amusement has
just been thoroughly renovated, and is now
open to Travelling Companies.
For terms, S*c., apply to
CHARLES NASH,
Proprietor.
FIRST ANNUAL CAVALRY TOURNAMENT
and MILITARY SPORTS,
to be held at the
AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY'S GROUNDS,
Moore Park,
On BATURDAY, AUGUST 14th,
Under the distinguished patronage and presence
of the
Right Hon. BARON CARRINGTON. P.C..G C M G.
Commander-in-Chief, and Hon. Colonel
Cavalry Forces,
And by special permission of Major-General
Richardson, C.B.
17 EVENTS,
Including Cavalry Jumping, lilting at the Ring,
Tent-pegging, Siloing Lemons, Mounted and Dis-
mounted Combats, Sword and Lance Exercises,
Musical Ride, &0., Artilterj Gun Competition and
Wheel Races, Infantry Bayonet Competition,
Naval Cutlass Exercises, Foot Racing. &c.
Entries for all events close on the 30th July.
For full particulars apply te
The Secretaries Cavalry Sports Committee,
17 O’Connell-street, Sydney
CHOOL OF ARTS lIALL, ROCKHAMPTON.
THE above Hall is now the most completely-
furnished and popular place of amusement
north of Brisbane. The Faust Family, MacMahon
and Leitch’s Dramatic Company, and Searelle and
Harding’s Opera Company have just concluded
most successful seasons ; also return visits in this
Hall.
Mr. Jas. MacMahon (MacMahon and Leitch)
says : —“ The Hall is admirably appointed ; is a
model of neatness and cleanliness, and we have
experienced less trouble in staging our plaJys
(‘ Silver King,’ ‘Lights o’ London,’ &c.) than in
any other place since we left Brisbane.”
For terms —Apply,
THE SECRETARY,
School of Arts.
FOLEY'S SYDNtY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION Riven eveiy day in Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &c. For
terms, &e„ apply to
H. M. CANSDELL,
Manager and Instructor.
MERCANTILE ROWING CLUB
BALL,
TOWN HALL,
TUE3DAY, AUGUST 3.
As most of the tickets are already disposed of,
it is advisable for those intending to be present to
secure their ticket! at ones.
None over the allotted number will be issued,
and No Tickets will be disposed of at the Doors.
Tickets, limited, are obtainable from the fol-
lowing members of the Committee Messrs.
W. tt. Banson. J Blackman, F. B lultoa, R. E.
B iodlev, F. J. Bull, H. it. Ocx E S. Deane, G
Dreej, K. Giltinan, K. M. Haymett, F. R. Isler, F.
lv«s, K. A. Keddie, J Lord, W. J. Merriman, J.
Mannix, S. H. Martin, T. Playfair, jun., G. Kebert-
son, J. Smart, T. Scobo, F. Thorpe, J. Trimble,
C. H. Wilkinson, and J Young.
Committee meet Friday.
W. A. BLACKS TONE, Hoh. Seoretary.
Telegraph Department.
THEATRICAL PRINTING.
JUST RECEIVED, per s.s. Mariposa. SHIP-
MENT of AMERICAN PICTORIALS, sult-
ab.e for Variety. Minstrel, Circus Shows. Ai»o,
ot SPECiAL'TIES. including Miagete, Giants,
Fat Women, Ventriloquism, Circassian Woman,
Living Skeleton 0 , Indians, Chinese. Japanese,
Poultry Shows. Irish Girls and Boys, &3.
J. J. MILLER,
Theatrical Printer,
72 Little Colllrs-street, Bast.
R
M . RILEY
(late of the Detective Force),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
73 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
confidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
divorce, libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
Rents and debts collected. From R. M. R.’s long experience
ki the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
New Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
globe, he is in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution,
expedition, and strictest secresy, and to faithfully and
promptly attend to all business entrusted to his care,
A*lo,ooo. £10,000.—“ BARB’S ” GRAND CON-
-3W SULTATION on the MELBOURNE CUP,
to be run on the Flemington Racecourse, Mel-
bourne, in November, 1886- i 20,000 Members at
10s. each, to be divided as follows :—The Highest
Prize is £2OOO, the Lowest £7 10s,
Prizes —lst horse, £2OOO ; 2nd horse, £1000;
3rd horse, £600; Starters (divided), £600; Non-
starters (divided), £9OO.
Cash Awards. —Ten Prizes at £lOO each;
Twenty Prizes at £5O each ; Thirty prizes at £25
each; Forty prizes at £2O each ; Sixty prizes at
£lO each ; One Hundred £7 10s.
Each Ticket has seven chanoes, and can ohtain
a Prize in each of the Seven- Drawings, which re-
duces the odds to about six to one ; in fact, One
Ten Shillings Ticket could obtain seven Prizes.
Please send P.O. Orders when convenient, or Bank Notes.
Country Cheques must have One Shilling exchange added,
and marked correct by bank. Two stamps required for reply
and result. The drawing will take place under the super-
vision of a Committee of the Shareholders. All will be done
to ensure the entire satisfaction of Subscribers. Please send
early for Tickets and Register letters. Please address—
“ BARB,”
c. o. T. G, Green, Guildhall Hotel,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
D. MITCHELL & CO.,
WHOLESALE GROCERS,
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS, AND
GENERAL IMPORTERS,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WE issue a price list on the first of
month, which is forwarded gratis to store-
keepers throughout the colony, and as we import
everything direct, we are enabled to give lowest
quotations. It will he found a useful guide far
people about to start in business, as stocks can be
made up from £5O and upwards. Our New Season
Teas, ex Killarncy, can he strongly recommended
for strength and flavour, more especially especially
the PARAGON MIXTURE, in packets, already
so favourably known, and whieh is protected
from fraud by registration.
STOREY, NOBLE & CO.,
AUCTIONEERS,
General Commission Agents, &c,,
CORAKI, RICHMOND RIVER, N. S. W.
ECORNILLON & 00., Wine and Spirit
• Merchants, 22 Bridge’street, Sydney,
Have on Sale—
Mackies & Co. celebrated Whiskies
E. Remy Martin & Co.’s Centaur Brandy, in
bulk and cases
Yve. Martin and Fils Squirrel Brandy
Ca. Vincola del norto de Espana, Rioja Clarets,
Port, &c.
The unequalled A.V.H. Gin, &c., &c.
M
s
O N U M E N T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on request.
.1. Clli\MN<aiA)l,
Margaret-stkhet, Wynward-squake, Sydney.
Dap&ftmeat ol Public Work*.
Sydney, July 27, 1856
nnSNDKRS for PUBLIC WORKS and BUf-
■ PLIES.—TENDERS are Invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Govuiinmmnt Gasktti, a file of which
Is kept at every Post Offioe in the colony.
Tenderers may be In attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced. If possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terras of the notice are strictly complied
With.
The Government does not bind Itself to aeoept
the lowest or any tender.
Nfttun ol Worka an- Su9plln
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received at
this office
Erection of Station Buildings,
Mich aga.GeulburutoOooma
Kailway
Construction of 130-ton Hopper
Barge, Dredge Service
Cleaning Stock Waggons at
Fiemington (Homebush)
Supply Waterproof ClotbiDg for
Tramway Service
Tuesday,
August 3,
at 11 o'clock.
Fencing, &c., Poloe Buildings,
Oobborah
Brec i jn of Offices, Locomotive
Branch.of Railways, Eveieigh
Erection of Stetionmsster’s
House, Blackheatb, Great
Western Railway
Removal of Nigtatsoil, &c„ Mait-
land Gaol
Erection of Timber Jetty, Quar-
antine Station
Tuesday,
August 10,
at 11 o’olook.
Alterations New Lockup, Taral-
ga
Construction of Underground
Tank. Lockup, Nwirandera
Tuesday.
August 17,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction otont 50-ton Hop-
per Barge, Dredge Service
Tuesday.
August 24,
at 11 o.clocK.
Supply of 1,000,000 Wrought
Iron Spikes, Permanent Way
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Ballina
Construction of Overshot Dam
at Uraaa
Tues lay.
August 31,
at 11 o’clook.
Supply of 176,000 Sleepers,
Kail way Forbes to Wlloannla
Tuesday,
September 14,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Iron Water
Tower, Wenth worth Water
Works
Ditto Pump Chamber, &o„ ditto
ditto ditto
Supply of Oast Iron Pipes,
Valves, &c., ditto ditto ditto
Ditto Boiler and FittiDga.and
Erection of Pumps, ditto ditto
ditto.
Ditto Flexible-jointed Pipes, &-•.
I ditto ditto ditto
Tuesday,
September 21,
at 11 o'clock.
W. J. LYNB.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all other* for its lasting and li&tur. 1
f» nuance.
Twree Solb Mepai.s—
PAKIS,ISIS, CALCUTTA,IBBI,
for pre eminent excellence ef quality.
gold medal bouquet
ISS. BOUftTJFT
trevol
■WOOD VIOLET
CHYPKE
and other well known Perfume*, are nn-
cnnaHcd lor tl.eir deligli tful and lasting odour
ATKINSON’S EAU DE TOUETTE DE LOKBRES.
Unsurpassed for refreshing and softening the
skin andan exceedingly choice Perfumefor
the Handkerchief. Ah entirely new article
prepared exclusively by the Inventors
Of atl Pealers, and of (he Manufacturers—
J. & E, ATKINSON,
21, Old Bosd Street, London.
Trade Murk— “ White Rose” on“ Golden
v Lyre.” A
LOSS of ENERGY and
-\TERVOUSNESS, —~ - 7 -■. ~
J3I STRENGTH. —A Gentleman, haying tried in
vain every advertised remedy, and discovered a
simple means of cure, will be happy to forw *“\
particulars to sufferers on receipt of stauipea
directed envelope. _ _ „ .
Addrees —“ Confidential, G.P.0., S&dnef.
ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS.
American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
HIM.
£7 YORK STREET,
r SYDNEY.*
m
m
ml
mm
%
SPECIALLY IMPOBTBD FOB CITY OB COUNTBY USB.
TAB 01U ESTABLISHED
American Carnage
EMPORIUM-
STERLING QUALITY,
A\
LOWEST PRICES,
HfIUWO
27 YORK STREET,
BYDNEY.
IYIRY YBHIOLB NTJSED


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Royal—“ Shadows of a Great
_ City” p . 8.
Gaiety Theatre—" Fun on the Bristol ”... „
alhambra—Minstrelsy, Olio, and Farce „
Royal Standard Theatre—" Voices of the
. Night” „
Academy oe Music.-Federal Minstrels
Lynch Family of Bellringers—Northern Tour „
“ Voices of the Night,” at Sydney Royal
is one °* the wildest pieces of scene-
shifting ever witnessed in Australia, and on that
account it is likely to have a long and successful
run. Regarded simply as a drama, however, the
piece is not there. In constructing the play the
author. Mr. “Thomas Somers” (who is alleged to
be identical with a well-known Sydney lecturer)
seems to have secured a pork-fed vision of the
night and chopped it up with the axe of compre-
hensive genius into six deliriums and an orange
snake. AH pretenoe of a coherent story has been
left out, but where the narrative should be we
have a raw lobster climbing a tree, and an intoxi-
cated yellow agony drinking the Queen’s health
allee samee white man.” There are no less than
twelve scenes, every one of whioh is in itself a
magnificent piece of art, and a hindquarter of
drama is impaled on the spike end of each soene.
But it is possible that the author of “Voices
of the Night” thought it advisable, considering
the title of the play, to leave hig audience some-
what in the dark, and, though theaotion is difficult
to follow, it is satisfactory to know that all ends
well. It is necessary, of course, that vice should
be defeated at the last, and in this case It is
squashed as effectually as the crab that was sac
upon by Jumbo when that portentous animal was
in his prime.
* * *
The first soene is laid at Redfern railway
station, where two wioked men are laying schemes
and two larrikins are chivying a Chinaman. In-
cluding the Mongol, that makes five characters
altogether. A virtuous individual appears, and is
greeted by two charming young ladies; a dirty
ag admonishes a sinner in a stove-pipe hat, and
tells him to come to his wife who is starving; a
sea-captain lays his vengeful hand on the same
individual’s windpipe, and wants his daughter;
and a guileless new chum has his luggage stolen
by a cabman and his letters of credit embezzled
by Ananias. Later on we learn that the good man
is a Communist escaped from New Caledonia,
where he had been sent on a false charge, and
owing to the strawberry mark on his arm we are
able to recognise the stove-pipe hat as hiß long-
lost brother. Messrs. Joe and Jack Willis, aided
by Ah Chow, Chow Fat, and Wong Hi, then finish
cleaning out the new ohum, and that gentleman is
reduced to sleeping in the Domain. Here the
stove-pipe man gets a friend to throw his wife
over the rocks, but the lady, by good luok, falls
into the arms of her father, who is mourning his
lost daughter just below, and Bhe knocks the
breath out of her bereaved parent. The new
chum goes to milk cows with an eye-glass on the
Hawkesbury—that sentence is a little mixed, but
not more eo than the drama—and In a limp,
doubled-up sort of way, he succeeds in clearing
the Communist of a false acousation of murder,
trumped up by his brother, but the unhappy man
is dragged off to New Caledonia as an escaped con-
vict, leaving his sweetheart weeping against a
veiandat-post, and for the time vice is uppermost.
* * *
Tableau 111. opens with a snake and a
raw lobstor climbing a tree. The sinner with the
tall hat, aided by the other sinner with the wide-
awake, has persuaded the sorrowing sweetheart
to take a voyagejnja schooner, under the pretence
of rescuing her lover from Noumea, and has car-
ried her off to New Guinea. The girl, however,
fully believes she is in New Caledonia, and sud-
denly sights her lover on a raft out at sea. She
flies to his rescue, and the conspirators stand on a
tuft of grass and curse their evil luck, while the
snake, listening behind a tree, resolves to bite
them at the first opportunity and makes a knot in
his tail to keep him in mind of this engagement.
Finally, however, the reptile, after dancing a
venomous jig on the stage, is shot, the thin and
haggard, but still honourable, Communist is res-
cued, and the party return to Sydney. At the
station on the Hawkesbury the depraved brother
attempts once more to abduct the young lady, but
the new-ohum is lounging about with a revolver
in front of him and a door-post behind, and the
baffled sinner is left standing with his legs wide
apart, like an enraged pair of compasses. Later on
he chloroforms his brother and lays him on the
Coogee tram-line, but a relief expedition seize
him by the legs and haul him off just as the motor
comes along. The sixth tableau is devoted to un-
corking a bottle of floe old crusted vengeance.
The blighting genius in the tall hat is found It an-
ing against the wall of a dirty room, but he rushes
out to perpetrate some transgression that he has
forgotten. In his absenoe the new-chum comes in
and also leans against the wall, but presently,
owing to architectural defects, he falls through
Consequently he is not there while the other man
is drugging a young lady, and he also misses the
sight of two brothers fighting with knives and
painting the whole leasehold property crimson.
But presently his eye glass irises in the east like
the morning sun on a fair landscape, and he
smooths matters wonderfully by proving to be a
detective and arresting all the unrighteous crowd.
It is consoling to learn, however, that the straw-
berry mark has deceived us, and that the supposed
brother is only a distant relation by bigamyj or
something of the sort. His ultimate fate is uncer-
tain, but it seems safe to pres'ume that he was
shortly afterwards cut off like a flower in his
bloom, and is now keeping company with Cap-
tain Moonlight, C.M.G.
•* * *
The best parts in the drama fall te the lot
of Mr. Dampier, who stands behind an eyeglass,
waiting for his remittance; Messrs. Baker and
Stoneham, the two leading villains; Mr. Alfred
Boothman, the Communist; Mr. Leston, as a
Chinese cook, who makes rabbit-pie out of cats;
and Mr. Tasman. Among these six it is almost
unfair to draw distinctions, for all are exceed-
ingly good, but the new chum and the Chinaman
are the principal favourites. The ladies, too, fill
their parts well, Mies Dampier and Miss Julia
Merton being worthy of special praise; and if this
brilliant zoological show fails to become anything
more than a landscape nightmare, the fault can-
not be charged to the performers. Even the snake
displays a surprising amount of dramatic ability;
and the tree-climbing lobster,though seemingly
only an amateur at his work, is about as good as
Could be expected. All this reptile wants is a little
more aotivity, and if his joints are oiled, ho will
probably, ere IODg, attain perfection. We trust
the unboiled animal will take this hint in good
part, for we can assure him that we have always
made it a rule to lend every possible encourage-
ment to really talented lobsters, and we have
never yet refused to extend the claw of sympathy
to a persevering member of the family.
** « *
The announcement of another new pro-
gramme at Sydney Princess drew a damp and
muddy audience together on that water-tight
home of minstrelsy, on Monday night. The crowd
might certainly have been larger, but the weather
offered every inducement to the public to stay
away, and the state of the streets was a direct in-
centive to profanity, in York-street alone we
counted no less than 13 different kinds of unspeak-
able slush, one of which was an entirely new and
very interesting species. It was brown in colour,
indescribably slippery, and of the consistency of a
toad that had been trying to hold up a tram-car
and had failed in the attempt. A carefully-bottled
specimen, labelled with a few scientific observa-
tions from Baron Macleay and with a patriotic
outburst from Mayor YouDg gummed on to the
cork, would make a most attractive exhibit for
the Indian and Colonial show, and we trust the
matter will be attended to at once.
* * 9
The first part of Mr. Hugo’s new pro-
gramme is hardly a success. The jokes of the
corner-men can scarcely become worse than they
noware; and one was especially noteworthy, for
it took 10 minutes in delivery, and proved to be
fully 10,000 years old when finished. The songs
were only tolerable, excepting the last which was
used as a peg on whioh to hang the chorus, “ Save
my mother's picture from the sale,” and regard-
ing it all that need be said is—if the picture was
half as execrable as the song no one would have
bought it. The triple pedestal act in the second
part was very good, showing that a man oan stand
on something even narrower than his dignity, but
the speech which came shortly afterwards
was a blight that was equal to spoiling the
best potato-orop ever grown in Ireland.
It was advertised as a “ great stump ora-
tiOD,” but unfortunately the greatness was
left out and the stump proved to be merely the
fag end of Sairey Gamp's umbrella. Miss Mel.
vine’s song, “ I’m but a simple peasant maid,” was
the gem of the performance, and helped to lighten
the gloom; and the ever-popular “ Gaffers of the
Gang ” brought down the wet and dispirited house
in a burst of applause, while Fred Garnett broke
his previous records by tying his head in a knot
round his neck and then swallowing his legs and
waist, or something equally surprising. But as
the audience filed out, the shadow of the stump
oration was still hanging over them, and the
majority looked as if they were going to pass the
remainder of the night by the bedside of a sick
friend. It can qnly be hoped they did not carry
out this intention, or the invalid would have
assuredly passed away before morning,
*t 9 *
Besides the aocustomed stars in the “Fun
on the Bristol” constellation at Gaiety Theatre,
Bydney, there is one which shoots—Ala the
athlete to wit. J3ola was the last special star, but
she was not a shooting one-she was shot, out of a
cannon too. Ala goes through a lot of interesting
work on the bar, and then goes on a rocket trip to
a on the roof, from which he descends
hurriedly, feet foremost, and alights in a net
stretched to await his coming. It is a pretty per-
formance : we would walk 50 miles to see John
Lucas, or a etonewaller, do it. Dudley Reid is
worth watching at the “ lightning cartoon” busi-
ness, Subjects in natural history, suoh as the
“equus caborum,” or common cab-horse, now
especially engage bis attention. He takes 30
seconds to draw a cab-horse which looks UDable to
draw him any in double the time. Arthur Gordon
does some clever mimicry, imitating to the life
the inimitable William Horace. He will probably
try to imitate Keenan when he gets new gables
built on to his mouth.
** * *
At Sydney Opera House “ The Private Sec-
retary’ 7 is closing his brilliant career, preparatory
to starting for that bourne from which no goloshed
curate ever returns. A rumour is afloat that at
the end of his present engagement the pulpy
clergyman will be promoted to a vaeant bishopric,
and as many believe that a “ gaffer” priest should
be seen and not heard, he will no doubt give satis-
faction and be an ornament to the church. Mr.
Spalding’s talents are not of a kind to qualify him
for shining in Parliament, and his bottle of milk
would look sadly out of plaoe in an Orange demon-
stration, but he is admirably fitted to be cut up
into bishops, especially as there seems just now to
be rather a scarcity of the genuine article. On
Friday—the last night of the season—the come-
dietta, “ Coming of Age.” will be produced as an
afterpiece, with Mr. Thornton in the leading
character.
** • *
The part of Tom Cooper, who is the good
young man in the drama now in its last nights at
the Theatre Royal, is taken by Mr. Herbert Flam-
ming. He fills it fairly well. Where rapid action
is wanted he is all there, but in pourtraying linger-
ing grief he has a left-handed look. He gets
smitten with sufficient prominence, and works
himself up to appear haggardly woebegone, but he
doesn’t manage to squeeze into the place where an
audience keeps its sympathies. Mr. E. C. Calvert
was the shrewd detective officer. This gentleman
is a massive piece of stage property. He got
nothing very remarkable to do, but whenever he
put in an appearance he looked the most im-
portant person in the crowd.
*m m *
Refreshed by an invigorating journey to
Liverpool, and a sight of the colonial patriarchs,
Horace Bent and Sam Keenan were even more
than usually enthusiastic in their business at the
Sydney Academy on Saturday last. The business
swirls along with its wonted momentum, and is to
receive an extra push from the Raynor Brothers;
who, having separated from the Rickards crowd,
have come over to throw a crown of hilarity and
high art upon the brow of the Sydney public.
With such an accession the FederaJs should be
more popular than the murder of a bailiff, or the
funeral of a stonewaller. Saturday next will be
the date of the Raynors’ first appearance under
the segis of the enterprising Hiscocks.
**• *• *
Having plundered Kempsey and looted
Port Macquarie, the Lynch Family of Bellringers
are making a bee-line for Bydney with the ac-
quired riches. This, their Northern tour, has been
as successsul as a Jubilee, and about just twice as
profitable.
#» #• #
The members of the Sydney Liedertafel
passed a comprehensive vote of thanks at their
meetiDg on Monday night to Mr. Delaney, their
conductor, especially noticing the success which
has attended the four concerts given under his
direction.
** * »
An entertainment of an entirely novel
character was held recently at Young, when Mr.
G. A. Sher win,brother of the “ Tasmanian night-
ingale,” who is now using her talents with such
effect and profit in London, and Mr. James
M'Kay, who has already published some clever
poems, produoed some songs of which the former
contributed the music, the latter the words. The
local papers criticise favourably, and the reputa-
tion of the two gentlemen warrants the anticipa-
tion of good work.
# #
The latest thing in eomie opera is “ Nell
Gwynne,” at Melbourne Opera House. Music by
Planquette (father ®f “ Les Cloches de Cornevilie ”)
and libretto by H. B. Farnie. The name of this
opera is one of the chief things in its favour. It
promises “social scandals” and real right royal
orgies. Fortunately, this promise is not ful-
filled. Charles 11. iwhose appearance sadly belies
his masher-like reputation) only pops on in time
to see the curtain fall, and as for Orange Nell, she
is distinctly nice, but not a bit naughty. The plot
of the opera is composed of drearily ingenious
complications. Buckingham and Rochester, tem-
porarily exiled from Court, endeavour to kill
time by running a rural pub. and “mashing” rural
maidens. This pub. supplies a long-felt want
among the local rustics. Every man endowed
with a young daughter, sister, pretty aunt or
eligible step-mother gets his board and lodging
free of charge. That the whole of the sex is put
upon the free-list goes without saying. Juit as all
far-seeing fathers (in the audience) are beginning
to tremble for the future of the village feminines,
pretty Nell Gwynne appears upon the scene and
circumvents the dark designs of the two wicked
peers. Bhe and a young laay friend engage them-
selves as domestics at the inn, lure on the bad
Buckingham and ruthless Rochester to make love,
adopt sundry disguises, and finally “split” on
them to the virtuous Charles. A superabundance
of incidents crop up, and everything ends happily.
There is not much originality about the way in
which things are worked out, nor are some of the
characters unfamiliar. The miser Gaspard and
the pudding-headed Bailee of "Les Cloches”
are served up once more as a pawnbroker
and a beadle respectively. The climax of the
second act, where the pawnbroker thinks he seas
ghosts, is suggestive of the same opera. With an
honourable exception in favour of one solitary
air, the mußic is not catchy. However, it must be
admitted that scenery, appointments, and inciden-
tal maidens are ail pleasing. Among the prin-
cipals, Mins Emelie Melville shines whenever she
gets an opportunity, and Miss Fanny Liddiard—
with the song aforementioned—makes a charming
niece to the village pawnbroker. “ Uncle’s ” sbr-
vant, played by Miss Aggie Kelton, gives this
young lady a splendid opportunity to air her low-
comedy powers. She wolfs her master’s supper
with an abandon which smacks of genius. We’d
let her eat us if we thought the meal would afford
her equal satisfaction. As Buckingham and
Rochester, Verdi and Armes Beaumont make up
with strict disregard of historical accuracy, the
one looking like bis own imperial self, and the
other resembling a second-hand bandit. Mr.
Beaumont interpolates a favourite ballad, and the
Signor, denied much scope in the vocal depart-
ment, is content to be focussed by the ladies’
lorgnettes. Messrs. John Forde and Edwin Kelly
are all there as the pawnbroker and beadle, stolen
fro RJ. “ Bes Cloches.” “ Nell Gwynne,” in faot, is
so efficiently played that it may run another week
or two. By the way, we have forgotten to mention
Miss Ethel Harcourt. Her part is small, but her
appearance is j ust immense—speaking figuratively.
Mies Harcourt reminds one of a fresh young god-
dess dipped in morning dew. This simile is
patented in all the colonies.
** * *
Very diversified are programmes at Mel-
bourne Bijou. “ Marie Antoinette ” was taken off
on Saturday in favour of “ The Rocket.” This
last firework ought to show up well against the
gloom of the historical drama, in which Madame
Majeroni played her part best to audiences that
were more select than numerous. In these
enlightened days the masses fight somewhat shy
of works devoted solely ta glorification of kings
and queens. To make a real popular suocess of
“ Marie Antoinette,” the motif must be altered.
For heroine we want one of the poor devils scorn-
fully bidden to “eat grass,” while due justice
should be rendered to the frivolous side of the
martyr-queen’s character. If she had been half
the angel the play would have us believe, she
might have died at an honoured old age with her
beautiful head in the place where Nature intended
it to remain.
»• * *
Rockhampton (Q.) is well provided with
accommodation for theatrical visitors; lately,
however, the School of Arts has been acquiring a
decided preference. Messrs. M'Mihon and Leitch
(who write a high testimony in its favour), and > he
Hardlng-Searelle Company among others choosing
to play there rather than in the theatre. It is ex-
ceedingly commodious and well appointed.
** « «
A Rockhampton correspondent writes:—
“ Dear Bulletin,— While Searelle and Harding’s
Opera Company were visiting Rockhampton, a
most painful accident happened. Two men were
drowned in the Fitzroy. One of ihe widows
has five children, and is almost destitute. On
the following Sunday the members of the Opera
Company generously came forward and gave a
sacred conoert for the benefit of the fatherless
little ones. The advertisement announced that
the performance wouldn't begin till pretty late,
to allow church-goers an opportunity of helping
along the good cause. The concert proved a
splendid success, over £4O being divided between
the two sorrowing families. On Monday, the local
papers reported a sermon delivered the previous
evening by a local clergyman to his snoring flock.
He told hisjist eners (any that were awake) not to go
to the conoert that night. The play-acting people
did this thing merely to gain a little cheap noto-
riety. Besides,’ t was a deseoration of the Holy Sab-
bath The same evening, ere the opera commenced,
Mr. Searelle presented himself before the large
audlenoe, and immediately began to knock chaff
out of the reverend one, which he did in prime
style. He said‘ Let his or kindred congregations
give an entertainment for the same laudable pur-
pose on any day of the week, and the chances are
that the results will be a paltry £s.’ Nothing near
so large a sum. Proof. To quote the Argus ‘ A
performance, under the auspices of the Indepen-
dent Order of Good Templars and Sootoh
Emanuels, was given in Bt. Paul’s schoolroom;
the collection amounted to 225. 3d.’ It is asserted
there were present 1008 persons, so that each pious
soul gave -a farthing. ‘ They gave according to
their meanness.' ”
Mr, F. A. Packer, of Hobart, writes us:—
“ I am quite sure you would not knowingly allow
anything maliciously untrue to appear in your
columns; I therefore confidently appeal to your
fairness to allow me to correct part of an exceed-
ingly spiteful paragraph contributed to your issue
of the 17th July, with reference to a concert of
some of my published compositions recently given
in Hobart. The large hall in which the entertain-
ment was given was crowded to excess, and in all
the many hundreds of concerts that I have been
identified with, I do not remember one instance
in which the audience listened more attentively
from beginning to end, or where the most hearty
applause was more spontaneously and generously
bestowed. The concert was not given by me, but
was got ud by others for a deserving object, and
I was simply asked to assist after it had been
decided upon. This is a compartively small place,
and if any man goes to the front in anything, there
are always some who are mean enough to try to
have a ‘dig’at him; the fact, however, cannot
be gainsaid that without the slightest attempt on
my part to ‘ push’my compositions, by induoing
public singers to introduce them, very many of
my songs, notably ‘Listening,’ ‘For the old love’s
sake,’ 1 Withered,’ and others, have run through
several editions, and have sold in thousands in
Tasmania and Australia alone. With the unasked
approval and warm commendation of such
musicians as Glorza, Sir Robert Stewart (Prof.
Mus. Dub.), Tosti, John Hill, lima diMurska, Miss
Christian, Armes Beaumont, Herr Schott, Alfred
Plumpton, Madame Tasca, Guenett, Sir William
Robinson, and many others, I can well afford to
pay little attention to envious vilification by cor-
respondents taking refuge under a cowardly
anonym , except to correct absolute misstate-
ments.”
»# m *
“ Ihe sad hypocrisy of this present world ”
is the subject of a lament from a Melbourne jour-
nalist, and the writer wails through his broken
front tooth about the doings of a number of de-
praved patriarchs from the city of eternal snuffle.
“ I never go to the Melbourne theatre,” he says,
“ without seeing in the front rows, especially with
opera bouffe, a number of well-nigh hairless old
gentlemen from Adelaido drinking in the spicy
bye-words, and floating over the sight of the fair
lasses in dishabille." These individuals when at
home, of course, pose as bald saints, and would no
more dream of going to a theatre than of visiting
a clime where gold has to be carried about in
asbestos jugs, but they will travel a long way to
look at a few girls who have omitted to put on
their wardrobe. Of such is the kingdom of
heaven.
A BIG BOOM ! I
The Sale of the Bankrupt Stock of Messrs.
Lormer, Phillips, and Nephew, clothiers and out-
titters Cheaoside, London, bought at a great dis-
eount by 8UMMBBPIBLD and CO., has caused the
greatest sensation Sydney has ever known. The
Goods, in addition to being wonderfully cheap, are
of a high-class character, and we strongly recom-
mend our lady readers to satisfy themselves of the
bona fide character as early as possible. SDMMER-
PIELD and COMPANY, Merchant Tailors, 385 and
337, Pitt-street. Sydney.*
Persons whose blood is thin and watery,
take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Last Saturday we and many others gazed
in those attraetive windows opposite the Joint
Stock Bank, and noticed how very pretty even a
common candlestick could be made to look. We
always find pleasure in examining the display of
china and glass which Bray Bros., of four hun-
dred and two and four hundred and four George-
street, make.*
Chairman Slattery suspended Mr. Shepherd for one
night,—
A suspension that will soon be put to test:
But everyone who wears and has tried them says
at once „ ,
That Bummerfleld s suspenders are the best *
Neither trickery or competition has been
able to affect the reputation of Wolfe’s Schnapps
B
RADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY t
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
mm
FULL SUITES for DINING-ROOM.—SIDE-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match.
L;-' 1 J
CH3
Sideboards of modern
designs and various dimen-
sions, in OAK, MAHOGANY,
WALNUT, ASH, and CEDAR.
A large selection, at all
prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably Up-
holstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
“Siu'iitaii
i
£35
PIANOFORTE,
1 guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable,
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brilliant
tone, in handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMI ORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &c. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell and
Spring Streets.
df
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Rnlor and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell and Spring
Streets.
CHIFFONIER WHATNOTS, effective designs.
Large ehoice. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
*3
an
m
fa'
01
Drawing room cabi-
nets, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Importers of High-arb
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
Drawing-room occasional chairs.—
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s. 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
gd
WtALNUT REVOLVING
BOOKSTANDS, 2,8, and 4.
tier—a desideratum for tho Barris
ter’s Chamber, Judicial Bench
Library, Drawing-room, or even tho
Bedroom. Very handy—especially
so for the Invalid Reader.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in
any material.
m
Revolving show
STANDS,
for the advantageous display of
Woollens,
Grocers’ Samples, or
Fancy Goods.
Everything is 'well exhibited,
and any single article can he
conveniently handled without
disturbing another.
• Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair and couch, for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
R” OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
fg
Bedsteads, all sizes,
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Importers,
O’Gonnell and Spring Streets.
BEDDING. —All descriptions at lowest Bates.
BRADLEY; NEWTON, and LAMB.
T-i-
SPRING MATTRASSES
Woven Wire, best
make; also, Spiral Springs
Price, from 14s. each.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, frotn
13s. 6d. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.;
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
BRADLEY, and LAMB.


The Mayor’s Fancy Dress Ball.
INSTANTANEOUS SKETCHES OF SOME OF THE COSTUMES.
No. 1. All this lot very early English. 2. Queen something-or-other of a previous date. 3. The Marquis of Mudgee, last century. 4. An East Indian Contingent.
5. A Maid of Honor to Queen Thingutmy. 6. A Puritan Young Person. 7. a Monk of the Order of the Penny-Whistle—2nd. century. 8. No End of an Ancient Cross Old
Party. D. A Hopeless Admirer of l ady Ronald M'Tavish. "who afterwards married Chevalier Sam Jones. 10. An Indian Maiden down to the ground—Shad of Pocahontas!—
in high heel’d boots! 11. The Average Milk Maid. 12,13,14. Three Doubtful all widely different in minor details, but chronologically unanimous in point of turn-
down collar —which, after all, is the great point. 15. A Legislator of the Dark Ages. 16. The Inevitable! 17. Mediaeval Masher, from the waist upward. In many other
respects a Coryphee for all time, past and present. 18. A Maid of Arts—though not necessarily an Artful Maiden. ID. Anything You Like, My Dear, of Any Period You
[?]hoose. 20. An Abbot and an Abbess Hooking it. 21. 22. Two Knights of a Composite Order, with a Suit of Armour between them. A trifling matter easily arrangedamong
friends in an age when armour is scarce. 23. Sir Walter Raleigh in Want—or Jack Want in Sir Walter Raleigh, we forget which. 24. View from the gallery of No. 18. We
rather like this style of thing. 25. Corn Riot Conspirator seen from the gallery. 26. A Literary Quakeress taking notes for an essay on the Vanities of Dress. 27. An Eng-
lish Gentleman of the year 1850. 28. Ditto from 1851 to date. 29. “ When in doubt ”go as a sailor; we counted seventy nine seafaring men, and it wasn’t a very good night
for sailors either. 30. A Maiden Lady of a Certain Age in a Costume of an Uncertain Age. 31. Richard Coeur De Lion. 32. A Busy Bee—too sweet for anything. 33. A
K.C.M.G. of an Uncertain Period. Let us hope in the near future.


Pity the Sorrows of a Poor Governor!
Ijord Carington, during his career in New
louth Wales, has already acted as patron to more
Afferent institutions than almost any man alive,
?xcepting the Queen, and as she is generally
mderstood to he a lady, she does not count in
his instance. His name appears in the prospectus
of almost every charitable association in N.S.W.,
rom the “Society for raising testimonials to the
ipper classes” down to the “Society for prose-
uting clerks who falsify the weights of wool-
tales”; he has good-naturedly sympathised during
;he last 13 months with 147 broken legs, 713 frac-
tured ribs, 33 objects on crutches, and 24 indivi-
luals who were suffering from miscellaneous
n juries acquired through falling down 19 deep
holes. He has assisted in one way or another
about 100 religions—equivalent to 150 souls and
5726 coflectlon-plJiteß; he has congratulated the
proud owners of innumerable twins and half-
twins; he has aided more benevolent boards—so-
called on account of their wooden-headedness—
than could readily be counted, and he has backed
the favourite freely, and never grumbled when
a sporting Moses won the gubernatorial cash. In
fact he has done more kindly actions than could
be noted on the back of one of Mayor Young s
elephantine invitation-cards, and has ;probably
suffered a good deal in consequence. When
we hear, for instance, that “ Lord Lady
Carington were present at a lecture on ‘Pleurisy*
delivered at Sydney School of Arts by MiSg
Costello,” and listened for two mortal hours
[o the teachings of a strong-minded lady on
mustard-plasters, blistering fluids, the, effect
of disease on the margin of the diaphragm,
and other kindred subjects, Lwe begin to com-
prehend that it is not all joy to be a Governor.
Little more than a week ago Lord Carington had
to dodge rather actively to escape being among
the guests at a wedding held in a drapery ware-
house and he only missed this feast among towels
to fall a victim to apleuro-
pneumonluc leetimßß. Almost the oily things
left for his Excellency to patronise now are
glanders, distemper, and foot-and-mouth-disease,
and it will be really surprising if he escapes them-
Talleyrand's saying about largusge and
thought has been closely noted hy tn editor in
Northern N.S.W. He regards the man who runs
the rival paper as a sincere Christian and an orna-
ment to the community, but he devotes a whole
column to concealing this opinion, and artfully
disguises his sentiments at the very cutset by
alluding to his friend as “ that horribly vile, mean,
and too utterly contemptible, empty-headed
booby, who presumes to attempt to edit a journal.”
Then he recommends this " bleary-eyed, con-
tinually-intoxicated, unwashed semi-inebriate ” to
hold off from the red wine and the amber beer for
a short time, and call in the assistance of some one
•* who knows a comma from a brick and a period
from the river punt,” so that their combined in-
tellects may be able to comprehend something
or other not very clearly defined. This is
concealment with a vengeance; but later on
the writer disguises his love still more
effectually, and wraps it in impenetrable mystery
by describing his bosom friend as an “odious
poltroon and insignificant harmless anaconda,”
and alludes to his paper as a “ dodger,” edited by
the “alcohol-diseased brain of a professional bar
loafer.” Next he wants a “ dog-cart ” sent round
to pick up and exterminate “this filthy and dis-
eased cur,” or at the very least he suggests that
the owners of the rival editor should be pulled up
for not paying dog-tax upon him. By this time
things are -growing so sultry that it is almost
soothing to come across a sentence where this
man of language merely denounces an obnoxious
article as a “heathenish and dastardly attempt”
published in a “banana-leaf printed near the
wharf,” and admonishes “ that thirty-bob-a-week
scribbler engaged on the auctioneer s poster to
mind hiß literary eye in future. He regrets, how-
ever, that he is merely replying to “the foam
of a long beer,” and apparently he fancies
that his own mind is buried in a profound Austra-
lian calm, for he says that “were it not for the
reverence he possesses for old age and for the
libel laws of New South Wales, the article that
has made this exiled member of the canine race
tug at his uncombed reddish beard would have
been written in an entirely different strain.” Then,
with fatherly kindness, he urges this “ hypocritical
hyena” to wash himself and thereby get rid of the
“ obnoxious effluvium” for which the “ intolerant
animal” has hitherto been noted, and, speaking as
a sincere friend, advises “the scribbler of that
wretchedly vile tissue of idiotic ravings to revise
the whole thing, have it corrected, and then give
it to the printer’s devil as a reward foreleaning
the old cur’s hoof-boxes, which, it appears, has
not been done for 20 years.”
How many scores of people, bitten by
Australian snakes, have died from fear and the
remedies employed and not from snake-poison, it
would be hard to say. Usually the fear, apart
altogether from the remedies, would be quite
enough to account for death. When a woman
(say) is bitten by a snake, her friends, even if they
don’t proceed to pump ammonia-and, worse still,
air—into her circulation with a horse syringe, are
sure to give her at least half a bottle of brandy
Within an hour or so; and where is the sober,
clean-living woman whom half a bottle of bush
brandy wouldn’t locate on the edge of the tomb in
any case ? As Krefft has demonstrated, the
majority of Australian snakes are non-poisonous.
And as with much of the snafce-scare in Australia,
BO with much of the dog-scare in England. The
famous essay of Professor Mosso, of Turin, “On
Pear,” published in 1834, went to prove that the
ravages of cholera was largely due to the terror
engendered in the public mind by newspaper ar-
ticles upon the epidemic. The professor showed
clearly enough the effects of fear on the viscera
and on the nutrition of tissues and proved that
fear went first to prepare the ground for the seeds
of the disease. Hundreds of instances are quoted
in which diseases have been actually developed
through the nervous prostration caused by terror.
Anxiety and dread and apprehension—we all
fcnow the effect of them. Of how many illnesses
that carry off strong men and women is worry the
primary cause, and worry is but the constant
dwelling of the mind upon dreaded things. Pro-
fessor Mosso in his treatise has much to say of
hydrophobia. Here is cne of his authenticated
cases. Twelve years ago a woman was bitten by a
rabid dog, and the wound was cauterised and she
got well. Many months afterwards she was re-
cognised by a student who had seen the operation.
"Hullol” he said, “here’s somebody who was
bitten by a mad dog and isn’t dead I ” The woman,
terrified by the student’s words, went home, and
at once developed the symptoms of hydrophobia
and died. Another case. A man suffering from
hydrophobia had made up his miDd he was dyiDg.
In one of his convulsive seizures the physician, to
reassure him, stooped down and kissed his
foam-flecked lips. “There,” said the brave doctor,
“if I thought you were suffering from rabies do
you think I’d do that?” The patient began to
improve at once, no more paroxysms supervened,
A HASH-HORSE PEERESS.
THE YOUNG “LADY WHO SLINGS HASH” AT OUR BOARDING-HOUSE (loq.): “D’YE
WANT MB TO GO HOME AND WRITE A FORTNIGHTLY LETTER FOR THE ‘TOWN
AND COUNTRY JERNEL? ”
and he recovered as if by magic. The late Sir
James Stephens declared again and again that the
fear of diseases engendered them, and many of
the best authorities are convinced that in nine
cases out of ten it is fear that brings on hydro-
phobia, and not the bite of a mad dog. These
facts cannot be insisted upon too often. The
terrific epidemic of hydrophobia all over Europe
and America only set in after Pasteur, his experi-
ments, and his patients had been sensationally
advertised in the newspapers of the world. There
is not the slightest doubt that had there been no
Pasteur, and no dog-muzzling, and no news-
paper scare, hydrophobia would have kept
within its normal proportions. As it is, the
public mind is terrorised, and we see the result.
There is a great essay yet to be written on fear as
a pathological factor, says a well-known writer.
Prom our earliest infancy we are terrified. There
is always a bogey of some sort placed osten-
tatiously in our path. The “ terror ” poison in-
stiiled into the mind in childhood makes its baleful
influence felt through life. I am not sure that
even the modern “knowledge” of which we
boast so much is an unmixed blessing. We
are “fearfully and wonderfully made;” so
fearfully, that to be happy and easy in one’s mind,
it is best to remain ignorant of all the facts.
Lately the English Board schools have taken to
teach physiology. In one school, some time ago,
the head mistress received the following letter
from a mother Dear Mam,—Please don’t tell
my gal any more about her inside. It don’t do
her no good, and it’s rude.” One can know too
much about one’s inside. Four years ago I
was laid up with a cold for a week in a
country surgeon’s house. I amused myself
by reading a volume of the Lance® and a
book on surgery. I have Dover been well since.
I pass my life in trembling lest some of the dread-
ful things I read about should happen to me. One
doesn’t want to know what awful ills poor flesh is
heir to. It is quite time enough to think about
them when they come. In the good old days,
before we knew so much about hydrophobia,
dozens of people were bitten by dogs and took no
notice, got well, and sometimes got bitten again.
Now, if a playful puppy bites a man’s boot, the
sufferer is carried off by a local surgeon to Paris
and Pasteur, and an account of the affair finds its
way into every newspaper of the kingdom. One
dreads to think what the inevitable result of this
reign of dog terror will be. A grave responsibility
rests with those who have fomented the panic and
caused an epidemic which may not be stamped
out for centuries.
Premier ball-room decorators of New
South Wales. Sale and Dare, decorators. Ball
and banquet rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations, 60>£ Hunter-street
Sydney.*
Testimonialism Gone Mad.
The worst piece of inane toadyism yet recorded is
the proposal to present a testimonial to “Wales”
for his services in connection with the Exhibition.
For this last specimen of bowing and scraping
K.C.M.G.-ism it appears the Executive Commis-
sioners of the Indian and Colonial cat-show are
responsible, but the name of the top-ass who
originated the scheme has not yet transpired. A
circular has been issued, however, announcing
that subscriptions are wanted from India and the
colonies, and the Imperial hat will shortly be
passed round in many a starving town for the
purpose of gathering money that ought rather to
be spent in buying bread for the hungry. In
N.S.VV. the idea will no doubt be favourably re-
ceived, though even in Sydney, which is at pre-
sent far more prosperous than most cities of the
Empire, there are multitudes who have only the
key of the street, and who celebrated their Jubilee
banquet in the damp grass and under the drip-
ping trees of the Domain. The Sydney Morn-
ing Herald, on July 17th, published a letter
on this subject from the pen of Mr. Coniah
Hammon, and the picture he draws shows that
we have in Australia a much more urgent ques-
tion to deal with than Wales’ flunkey testimonial.
Mr. Hammon proposes to get a refuge built where
houseless unfortunates can sleep, and as Wales is
already provided with a gilded bunk at the ccst of
the nation this matter should oertainly be attended
to first. “It is really heartbreaking,” he says, “to
walk in the early morning through the parks and
backstreets of Sydney. Men and women, poor
and miserable, having no home, no house, no
friends, oan be seen here and there sleeping under
trees and gateways, looking really more dead than
alive, and seemiDgly glued to the damp and chilly
earth, thtir clothing poor and scanty, and barely
sufflcientito cover their wretched nakedness. If
this is the outward or visible appearance of these
poor people, think what state they must be in in-
wardly; shrivelled up no doubt through cold,
hunger, and disease, brought on by dire want and,
exposure. On cold or wet nights, these people,
with their hearts nearly frt zen out of them, may
be seen crouching against the warm walls
of bakeries and foundries, trying by such
means to keep body and soul together.”
As a slight relief for this suffering and misery, Mr.
Hammon urges that a refuge should be available
from 9 p.m. to 7 a.m., to which all comers will be
admitted without question. This suggestion is
about the near est approach to Christian charity
that we have come across for seven years, but we
are prepared to bet none the less that it will re-
ceive no support whatever from the grovelling
K.C.M.G.’s and lacquered snobs who are now bUBy
polishing royal boots in London. It is hardly
likely tnat Wales ever knew what it was to go
without his dinner, as so many of his future sub-
jects do, but it appears perfectly right in the eyes
of these bush-flunkeys that they should rob the
poor for his benefit and for the gratification of
their own obese vanity. Ihe success of the testi-
monial will add another streak of fat to the bulg-
ling self-importance of the woolly knights who are
so busy disgracing the colonies they are supposed
to represent, and we can only hope that very little
of the cornstalk legal tender will go to swell the
donation. The result, of course, will be the dis-
tribution of a few more “ honours” to the Execu-
tive Commissioners, and after that they must look
around for some new sphere for their loyal
energies. But it is really hard to say what they
can do next, unless they get up a testimonial to
Prince Albert the Good and send it aloft in a
consecrated balloon for their own special glory in
the great hereafter.
A Holy War.
The extension of Holy-Joeyism and Mosaic
snuffling in the benighted cocoanut-groves of the
South Seas, is a subject on which missionaries
never tire of dilating, and every now and then a
few brown and deceitful apostles are brought
over to be exhibited at Australian revival-meet-
iEgs as a sample of the good work that is being
done. The vessels which convey the labourers
out to the vineyard often carry in addition a few
cases of Brummagem idols, and pretty often hav-e
on board a choice assortment of rum, but that fact,
of course, is kept in the background, and the less
said about it the better. But, altogether apart
from the rum and the brass Jehovahs, missionary
business does not always lead to peace, as is shown
by some events now taking place in the island of
Rotumah. Some years ago a Wesleyan pastor
went out to seek for any lost sheep who might be
grazing in this tropical region, and alter a iong
period of labour, he seeeeeded in getting together
a considerable congregation. A Roman Catholic
priest, however, was engaged in the same work;
the clerics were unable to agree, and the two
spiritual deliriums got mixed. The Wesleyan pot-
boiler felt it necessary to explain that the other
fellow was Antichrist, or something of the sort,
while the man with the elean shave regret-
fully pointed out that his rival was a heretic and a
sham, and that he alone was authorised to save
souls on that island. Then the respective flocks
armed themselves with hoes and other implements,
and went out to diseuss the matter, and with brief
intervals of respose the conference has been kept
going ever since. For a iong time the heathen
natives remained neutral, and contented them-
selves with looking on while the Christians
butchered each other, but of late they have begun
to howl for the Wesleyan dog, as that animalis ob-
viously getting uppermost, and unless the
Pope sends a cheque along to buy guns
with, the Catholics stand a good show of
being wiped out Bud the pastors on both
sides have still the supreme satisfaction of
remembering that they have introduced genuine
piety into the island, and done a great worn in ele-
vating the barbarous Papuans. Before they came,
the niggers lived iu comparative peace, it is true,
but then they thought nothing of scooping out
the interior of a dead horse and worshipping the
hide, and if, by chance, they killed somebody, they
did not know so much as a text of scripture to put
above his grave. Now all is changed, and by dint
of inscribing a verse over every individual whom
they bury, the Protestants have, within the space
of six months, used up Genesis, Exodus, Leviti-
cus, and Numbers, and are pounding steadily
along through Deuteronomy, while the Catholics
have shoved along as far as the wanderings of
Israel in the wilderness, and planted their latest
victim with the motto. " Thou shalt not kill.”
In “embezzlements” things have been
rather quiet lately, in the holy city of Adelaide,
the market baviDg evidently suffered from the
recent glut. “Building societies,''’however, still
continue to be enticing stocks, and a very fair
line has been reported from a provincial town.
The amount when changed hands was not so
large as has been the rule in transactions during
the past few months, being only £2500. 'This the
local mayor is alleged to have annexed in an
“easy and accessible way.” A warrant has fol-
lowed the “ deal,” and the dealer will follow the
warrant in due course. So far, it has not been as-
certained Whether the robbery was done in the
name of the Lord.
“Deak Bulletin,—The Western squatto-
crats are howling aloud for sympathy, and are
crying ‘ stinking fish’ most pertinaciously. They
forget to lay before the public ‘some things.’
Look here. I make out from their own figures
that it costs a station depasturing from 50,000 to
60,(00 sheep £lOOO a year less carriage on their wool
to Sydney now that the railway has been extende
to Bourke, the difference being from £lO to £4
per ton. They savq. this amount, but they care-
fully omit any mention of this saving. Then
again, some squatters made as much as £l6OO
during last year by letting portions of their runs
for agistment. This is not mentioned. And again,
they meanly attempt to recoup themseives by
cutting down the shearers’ wages. Finally, several
are to blame for overstocking for the purpose of
affecting a sale I know one man who, to sell a
station, put 90,000 sheep on it; he knew the coun-
try would not carry it. Nearly 60,000 died ! Com-
ment superfluous I—Belshazzar.”


Call that Backing-up Your Friend?
"Sir H. Parkes was prevented by a ‘severe cold from attending the meeting at Paddington in favour of Air. J. C. Neild, on Monday night ."—Daily Papers.


A Business View.
“The English constituencies, by 283 to 125, hive refused Home Rule to Ireland.”— Daily Paper
SANDY: "WEEL JOHN YE KEN TAFFY THE WELSHMAN AND I BAITH THINK YE MICHT LET PADDY GO INTO BUSINESS FOR HIMSEL AND OOT IN CANADA AND
AUSTRALEY THEY A THINK THE SAME"
JOHN BULL: “THAT MAY BE, BUT NONE OF YOU MAKE ANYTHING OUT OF HIM. I CAN’T AFFORD TO LOSE WHAT I EARN BY HIS SLAVING.”


An Orange Gorroboree.
Eveey succeeding Twelfth of July appears to
show the Australian Orangeman in a more and
more obnoxious character, and people who stand
by and note his increasing eccentricities are be-
ginning to wonder how far the process of de-
generation can go. Even in his best days the
Orangeman consisted merely of two thin and
bigoted legs surmounted by the decomposed
shadow of a missing intellect, and every year the
shade of his thinking organ grows more intan-
gible. But the steady decrease of the mental
powers which were onoe supposed to be stored in
his top end causes him no distress, for his work is
of a kind that can be done with his stomach and
back legs without the aid of the nobler organs of
the human frame, and this bigoted wallaby con-
tinues to skip through the verdant groves of
ignorance with the springy stride of Dan.
O’Connor in chase of a Ministerial portfolio.
Tne Twelfth of July celebration at Tam-
worth, N.S.W., showed that the pumpkin-
skulled qualities of Orangeism are still as good
as new, and some of the speakers mani-
fested a freshness and vigour in their remoteness
from solid fact that would have moved Baron
Munchausen to envy. The Rev. H. E. Tydeman
led off well by drawing attention to the circum-
stance that “ the English Church claimed to be
older than the Church of Rome,” and, unhappily,
no sensible man was present to remind him that the
monstrous flam embodied in that claim was none
of his business, and had better be left alone. Mr.
Gladstone, he pointed out, “ was trying to alter
the established religion and to subvert the Protes-
tant succession,” and he had also “ tried to get the
coronation stone of the Queen removed.” He did
not stop to explain, however, to what distant
region the Premier desired to hump the colossal
Protestant brick in question, nor wbat the Holy
Roman cause would gain by its being dumped into
a barrow and wheeled away. The Church, as we
all know, is founded on a rock, but no one has yet
ventured to aver that Anglicanism is built upon
a chunk of quartz or a cretaceous fossil.
Should such be the case, however, it will explain
much that has hitherto been incomprehensible in
connection with the Anglo-Saxon bishop trade,
for a church which is based on a coronation stone
is bound to be both narrow and shaky. Mr. Tyde-
man, fortunately for himself, did not stop to pick
up the fragments of his mangled argument, and
he got on safer ground when he went on to lay
down the three great objects for which Orange-
men should strive—to keep children from being
sent to ‘‘Popish schools,” to have the conventi
thrown open for inspection “so that they might
be sure there were no women detained there
ftgainst their will,” and “to make every priest
either marry or leave the country.” The final
proposition might very well have been coupled
with a stipulation that every Protestant parson
was in future to keep moral or emigrate, or that
every Orangeman must wash himself and put on
a clean shirt or scoot, but Mr. Tydeman quite for-
got these points, and sat down amid applause,
“ having had a most patient and impartial
hearing.” He was succeeded on the ros-
trum by a high-coloured blossom named Jacob,
who started with a passing allusion to the moth-
eaten old gag about the Bible being the source of
England’s greatness. Anybody but an Orangeman
would know by this time that England’s greatness
consists of grog, opium and bayonets, but sueh
carnal lore is hardly likely to be familiar to a man
who describes himself as “an English-Irishman,”
and yet adds that his mother was a Scotchwoman.
Jacob’s pride in the mongrelic (new word, strictly
copyright) combination reminds one in a round-
about way of the hopeful assertion made by
the Sydney Imperial Eederationists on last
Fourth of July, that the population of the
North American Republic—consisting of ten or
eleven stolid millions of pure and cross-bred
Germans, nine or ten millions of noisy Irish, three
or four millions of Scandinavians, several millions
of French, say a couple of million or so of
Spaniards and Italians, and about ten millions of
niggers whom the British Imperialists did their
lev el best to keep under the stockwhip at the time
of the war—are thoroughly and furiously British
at heart, and are all longing for a chance to
federate in the bonds of the Garter and the Bath.
Mr. Jacob then bid for a little cheap notoriety by
challenging Cardinal Moran to take up the cudgels
on behalf of Romanism and meet him on any pub-
lic platform, but it is likely the Cardinal has some-
thing better to do than waste his time debating with
a man named Jacob who only escapes the suspicion
of being an Orange Hebrew by declaring himself a
British mongrel. When the Archbishop of Can-
terbury agrees to discuss religion in public with
Father Huggard, of Bourke, then Cardinal Moran
will probably come forward, and things will be
about square. Mr. Jacob, however, appears to
have at least the merit of sincerity, for he declares
his readiness to leave his wife and children and
take up arms in the cause of the Ulster Orange-
men; so we presume the Jacob family may live
on benevolent-asylum skilly, while the fond
parent waves a Protestant bedpost in the front of
the battle. By the time the orator had finished
there was not much left of Roman Catholicism,
and all Ireland, with the exception of Ulstor,
might regard itself as wiped out of the solar sys-
tem. Even St. Patrick was demolished, as far as
his Hibernian character was concerned, for this
triangular Orangeman declared him to be a Scotch-
man after all, so we must all learn to depict the
holy man in future as a bagpipe missionary who
wore short petticoats and lived on porridge. Then
he turned on the Anglican clergy because they held
aloof from his red and yellow society, and from
that he jumped to the subject of a girl who was
nearly being forced into a convent at Tamworth,
but who was rescued by some 12th of July heroes,
and thus saved for eternity. But by this time
even his auditors could stand Jacob no longer, and
they pulled him down by the tail, while a lady im-
proved the occasion by singing “ Home they
brought her Warrior dead,” as a hint of what the
voluble hero might expect in Ulster. Then one or
two more parsons improved the occasion with a
little vocal Protestantism, and the dreary farce of
bigotry and ungrammatical sorrow ended amid a
burst of mutual admiration.
Hugh M'[?]oll.
The question which stands before all other
public ones in the colony of Victoria at the
present time is that of Irrigation. People had
gone out willingly enough into the backblocks
and tried to make homes that would Dst.
At times rain was plentiful, and vegetation
abounded. Flocks and herds increased, and the
selector with his hundred acres, and the grazier
with his scores of miles, rejoiced. At other times
rain did not come, and selector and grazier had to
look on at cultivation disappearing and flocks and
herds dyiDg on the charred plains. The latter
seasons came often. It was known that, one year
with another, sufficient rain fell, but the water
found the rivers and svept onwards to the sea or
sank to subterranean channels and became lost to
use. How to make these rivers throw back their
waters over the land and to bring those subter-
ranean channels to yield up some of their buried
treasure—this, to the man capable of entertaining
a passion for heroic national service, was, once
seeD, bound to become the question of questions.
* * *
A quarter of a century ago, Hugh M’Coll,
whose portrait appears on the front page of this
week’s Bulletin, made the question his. Eight
years afterwards he adopted and developed Dod’s
theory of the practicability of constructing a great
north-western '’anal to connect the Murray River
with the sea ad) Portland. He also collected data
which proved th© existence of immense subter-
ranean watercourses in the Riverina country, and
charted one as running to waste in the ocean be-
tween Cape Sir William Trant and Cap© Bridge-
water. In 1880, he entered Pa>liament as member
lor Mandurang, and from that day until he died
the purpose of his life was to impress upon the
country and the Government of Victoria that Ir-
rigation was a practical project, and the putting
of it into operation an inexorable
national duty. It dees not want much
virtue to be the apostle of a popular
cause. It wants but little to labour
for an object which the circles above
and around one confess to be good.
But to work with the multitude apa-
thetic and ignorant, and with those
around and above ignorant, prejudiced,
and offensively hostile, requires much
of the nerve and brain that most men
lack. Hugh M’Coll was the Baptist- of a
new cause, but the wilderness about
him was one of inane, unsympathetic
faces. His cry found it hard to pene-
trate. It tickled ears, and eyes
laughed and mouths mocked. But faith
and hope were strong. Alone, isolated,
the white-headed old man stood there
before Parliament, before the country,
nnabashed, undismayed. Derision,
mockery, vapidities lof conceit, yaups
of ignorance, stertorous murmurs of
apathetic laziness arose, surrounded,
enveloped him. But faith in the cause
or confidence in its triumph never
blenched.
* * *
Hugh M’Coll was a Scotchman.
He was born in Glasgow and reared oh
the Highlands. At an early age he went
to work. He started book selling in
three towns, one after another. He
rested longest in South Shields. When
33 years of age rumour that gold
was found in Victoria reached old-
land dens of drudgery, and with his
MR. DANIEL COOPER.
wife and family he sailed for Melbourne. On land-
ing, his wife died and five children fell to his care.
He made a start as printer. From that he passed
to journalism. He soon combined both and be-
came proprietor and editor of a country paper.
Thejoutlook hdre darkened. Marrying again, he
quitted newspaper work, and went on the road as
commercial traveller. He travelled for several
firms in succession, and acquainted himself ulti-
mately with the character of the inland country.
He is next heard of as a potter. In cod j unction
with a brother-in-law he established a pottery at
Epsom, Victoria. Though success came on the
extension of the railway to that place, the business
did not pay while M'Coll was in it. He abandoned
Epsom and floated a Brick and Tile Company at
Bendigo. He followed this by becoming legal"
manager of a number of gold mines. Prosperity
at last came. It poured upon him. His mining
interests, rated at market prices, rose rapidly to
£lO,OOO, £15,000, and, it is said, even to £40,000. But at
this: stage his office with what it contained was
burnt, and by the time he could look round, the
bottom had fallen out of almost all his mines. He
thereupon quitted legal management for ever.
* * *
So far away as 1843, when a bookseller in
South Shields, he had devoted himself to a measure
dealing with water management. The Corpora-
tion of Newcastle had had control of the River
Tyne for 700 years, and refused to sanction certain
alterations which those interested in navigation
considered necessary. It is noteworthy that he
acted as secretary for the committee of innova-
tors for nine years, and had the satisfaction of wit-
nessing the triumphal issue of his labours.
Twenty-two years later found him in Victoria
aoting as secretary to the Coliban Water Supply
Committee. His going to and fro in the new land
had shown him the necessities of the settlers. Of
the country around the Whipstick he made
an elaborate study. When no other way was open
he and Mr. Benson collected subscriptions to sink
dams there. The Coliban soheme at last succeeded.
The success only urged him on. What he did for
the country around Bendigo, Castlemaine, and
Maldon, he determined to do for the whole
of Victoria. So he worked till the end. One day
he arose from his sick-bed to attend a meeting at
Sandhurst, where the subject of water conserva-
tion was to be discussed. |He was taken ill at a
Melbourne railway station and conveyed back to
his house at St. Kilda, where, a fortnight later,
he died in his 67th year. His death sent a thrill
through the community. It brought all eyes sud-
denly to the point at which the forces of his life
had aimed. The public conscience was pricked to
a recognition of his work. Parliament was ap-
pealed to to make the recognition tangible by
voting a sum of money to those for whom the old
man, in his enthusiasm for the general good, had
neglected to provide. Parliament wrangled. It
partly passed a grant, and then returned, and
wiped the item out.
* • •
Hugh M‘Coll did not figure prominently
as a politician, but his opinions were of a demo-
cratic, if not Radical order. He conceived a
passionate admiration for Graham Berry when
that politician was in the fulness of democratic
promise, and, despite all that afterwards happened,
the admiration Dever waned. In 1871 he first ap-
pealed to a constituency for a seat in Parliament,
but was so harshly repulsed that he had to forfeit
his deposit. He was again defeated in February,
1880. In July of that year, however, he was re-
turned, and from that onward his seat was sure.
The more his constituents of Mandurang knew of
him the more they liked him. Once he was really
known anywhere, liking for him grew. He was
warm, hearty, generous, simple. The clasp of his
hand was tight, the tone of‘his voice cheery, the
glance of his eye trustful. He would have made
a deeper mark bad he not been so mild, so patient,
and so forgiving. A man, nowadays, with a mis-
sion as large as his, wants in him something of the
knife to slit up charlatans, of the maul to flatten
humbugs, of scorn to throw at insolence, and of
passion with which to scorch the ears off knaves.
As it is, poor Hugh M‘Coll has gone. He did not
see his work completed. But all the country is in
a hurry now to do it. Those who refused to hear
him, those who mocked most and laughed
most and stood most in his way are now
the most supple in running round the land to have
the work he laboured for accomplished. This is
well. This is what the noble old man, could he see
them now, would rejoice at. But it has a bad side.
It shows how the dead may be robbed. It may be
that the nation owes no dross to Hugh M’Coll, but
it owes him fame. That water scheme is more his
than any other man’s in Australasia. Robbers,
with their sleeves rolled up, stand between his
silent grave and the country, and set themselves
to snatch the garland Time is bearing to him.
A number of bafrowmaniacs have started
for Kimberley, wheeling their provisions in
front of them. They must be tolerably good
marksmen if they hope to traverse 300 miles of un-
known and almost trackless wilderness, and strike
an absent township at the end of the journey. The
man who can hit the edge of a half-crown with a
bullet at two miles distance may how take a rear
seat.
The number of Tasmanians who didn’t
long since expect railway accidents in the ‘‘Tight
Little Island” might be counted—first time—on
the digitals of our old friend Three-fingered Jack.
About 10 years have elapsed since they com-
menced telling stories there about those con-
venient curves which allowed the guard to get a
light from the driver almost any time he liked;
and several experts, at various intervals, reported
most unfavourably on the railway
construction in Tasmania. Luck carried the
people safely enough for a long time, but of late it
has been turning on them.
The first genuine boycott on record is re-
ported by an antiquarian to have taken place in
Brazil in 1820, when the inhabitants of Custhanas
announced their intention to boycott the Deity
unless he sent rain. A decree was issued by the
mayor announcing that if the longed-for showers
did not come within eight days all masses and
prayers were to be abolished; after eight days
more the churches and chapels were to be set on
fire; and finally, if the drought continued for
another period of eight days, all priests, monks,
nuns, and saintly women—there were no saintly
men—were to be despatched summarily to heaven
to see what the whole bother was about. It is
understood that the rain came immediately after-
wards. What a blessing it is to have a level-
headed mayor !
Tin-Tag.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Y’ could see he was cleaned out ’n’ needy,
On th’ hunt f’r a drink;
He was jus’ like a lunch-cake—tha’s seedy—
’N’ wha’ d’ye think ?
His voice was brok’n ’n’ reedy—
His nose kinder pink.
In water he was no b’liever,
Tha’ was quite clear,
’S he tilted’s ol’ battered beaver
Over’s ear,
’N’ sighed f’r th’ longes’ long-sleever,
A syrup ’n’ beer.
His throat was like sooty-choked chimney,
Or room tha’ ’s dusty—
Or th’ inside o’ a flour-bag—“ Here, gi’ me
Gaspingly—" bust ye I
Ten-gallon, I’ll drink it, b’ Jimmy!”
The cuss, he was thusty.
His breath was's fiery’s lime.
Or s’uth’ly buster—
Or like tha’ ragin’ hot clime
Where topers muster—
’N’t’ cool’t he hadn’t a dime.
’N’ Fortune—he cuss’t her.
" Say, mate, it’s long sin’ I ate—
I’ve fasted a few ”
“ Sartin y’ don’t irrigate ? ”
11 Blame me I it’s true.”
“Here”—what seemed a coin o’ the State —
“ Cl’ar out o’ this—dew I ”
Then he made f’r a pub, tha’ was handy,
’N’ passed in his sweet—
He mu’mured a word—it was brandy;
He wanted it neat.
Bu’ ’fore ye’d get outside a shandy
He was laid in the street.
How did tha’ happen thus ?
This way I ’pine
Tha’ mis’rable joker or wuss
Was bent on a shine,
’N’ had passed on th’ ign’rant cuss
Tin-tag f’r a coin.
T. CHRISTIE.
Sir Graham Berry—The Modern Judas.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Are all men false ? Can all be bought ?
E’en those who Freedom’s battle fought;
Doth lust for titles all enslave ?
What, all ? Nay I Thunders from the grave,
Here patriots sleep, in honour laid,
The people’s trust, who ne’er betrayed.
For wbat fought Washington so well ?
What fired the blood of William Tell ?
What reft from Garibaldi fear ?
And Hampden to all freemen dear;
Was’t titles, gold ? Nay I Not thus swayed,
The people's cause they ne’er betrayed.
The dead were true; the quick are bought;
Their vows, their pledges, are as nought—
No I shouts an Empire ’cross the seas,
Bright, Gladstone, from that stain release;
In pinchbeck honours unarrayed,
Their name and fame they ne’er betrayed.
The undying dead still live in song,
The living dwell true hearts among ;
The Paladin of People’s rights
Is nobler than a host of knights.
Bah, Judas I Bah! man retrograde I
Yourself and cause you have betrayed.
Wear, wear a handle to your name,
Its price, your never-dying shame;
Bind to the wheels of Tory car
Your manhood, let no scruples bar;
Full soon to find that, self-betrayed,
The knighthood doth the man degrade.
Not thine to reap in later days
The harvest of a people s praise;
The titles which your name “ adorn,”
Have wrought for you disgust and scorn;
For glittering baubles, Renegade!
Your very soul you have betrayed.
GEORCE BLACH.
Outward Seeming
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The bird imprisoned in a cage
Will carol blithe and gay;
With fulsome voice he utters forth
A plaintive roundelay,
To be like those upon the wing
Who flutter round his cage and sing.
Although their notes may never be
As musical or sweet,
On yonder blossom-laden tree
They sing the song of liberty,
The dawning morn to greet—
While he still chants a sad refrain
To be upon the wing again.
E’en so with me. Life’s passage may
Seem free from grief and care,
And journeying on from day to day
I may appear to others gay,
And have no ills to bear,
The very hour that I may smile
My heart is fit to break the while.
L. G.
A cabby writes in a London paper“ The
smartest thing I ever heard done to a cabby was
this. One of my mates drove a gentlemen once a
two-shilling fare. My mate weaved about the
road a bit, and so when he reached tbe end of the
journey, the gent taxes him with being drunk.
My mate, being an honourable man, didn’t deny
it. ‘ Very well,’ says the gent, “if I have you up
before the Beak you’ll get lined 55., and have
your licence endorsed. ‘ Quite right, sir,’ says my
friend. 4 Well, then, says the gent, ‘I am disposed
to be lenient. Give me 3s.’ My mate hands over
the 3s„ thinking he was going to get two half-
crowns back. But what does this gent do ? ‘Why,
he says, 4 two and three is five. As you paid the
os. fine, I’ll let you off the endorsement. Good night.
And my mate was so taken abac* that he drove
away, having paid the gent 3s. for driving him
three miles and a half I ”
The pastoral appraisement court has been
sitting at Bourke during the whole of last week.
The extra work to the staff has almost demoralised
the service; first day, one clerk nearly dead from
the effects of six hours’ continuous writing; second
day, two fresh ’uns had to he put on turn and turn
about—the work was awful. Several interesting
pastoral items cropped up. The Government
appraiser reported that the sub-soil of one block
was of no great depth, that sheep did not eat
timber, and that nothing grew during a drought.
One of the solicitors in attendance opined that
grass was graded as to size similarly to fencing-
wire, and discoursed learnedly, and at great
length, on the non-nutritive qualities of No. 9 anc
No. 10 grasses. The amount of valuable informa-
tion imparted to the board is such that fears are
entertained that by the time 44 tally ’ is called they
will have to be taken home on shutters.


Scenes from the Sydney Jubilee Ball.


SOCIAL
The Jubilee Costume Ball given by Mayor
Young in Sydney Exhibition Building was un-
doubtedly a success. The host had set himself to
break the Bydney record in the wav of s icial gor-
geousness, and he did it. Of Mr. Ifoung's gener-
osity there can be no doubt. Everything that
gold could obtain was procured for the delectation
of the guests, and as many as the building would
hold ware there. If any did not enjoy themselves,
It was not for lack of aught whloh the host or
gathering could supply- And to be happy was to
be loyal, for it was the Jubilee Ball, given because
a stout little German lady has been paid half-a-
mlllion a year, since 1837, by the British nation
Bne has sat on the throne for 49 years ; what else
she has done during that time It would possibly
puzzle Mr. Young or any of his guests to sav with
any degree of certainty. Probably these Jubilee
rejoicings are congratulatory rather to the Queen
than to the nation. Tney should be, for the Queen
seems to have very much the best of the bargain.
Therefore we hasten to felioltate her aud add our
tribute to that of Mayor Young. For which dis-
play of loyalty we expect at least a C.M.G.-shlp.
• * »
The assemblage was magnificent in the mass,
however peculiar in appearance some of the units
may have been. It was a very oarnival of colour,
and, eheu! sometimes a carnival of taste. Glaring
as individual costumes were, they did not fall to
harmonise with others equally glaring of opposing
colour, for the ordinary rubs of harmony are
abrogated in the presence of elements wh'chare
all incongruous. Hues glittering, gloomy, and
glaring, all contributed to the pioturtsque
display, and a gorgeous display was the natural
result. Individual costumes showed not much
intentional originality, but very much that
was unintentional Marie Stuart was represented
by about a score of ladies, and that misguided
queen would have repented of all her sins had she
seen several of her personators on this occasion
One lady thought Louis Quatorze patches neces-
sary to the character, and another was unable to
resist the temptation of making another “ im-
provement ” which is strongly characteristic of
Very recent fashions. Very conspicuous were the
girl graduates, and one of them was about as
alluring as any character in the hali. Ejually
conspicuous, but less enchanting, was the young
lady who went attired in the primitive costume of
a black gin; her costume and colour were equally
correct, and her natural beauty was not sum dent
to interfere very materially with the correctness
of the personation. Red Cross knights were
numerous, but the rumour that any one of them
assumed the dress for the purpose of advertising
a well-known brand of jam is quite unfounded,
As usual, all the ladies with severely angular aud
ugly shoulders took particular care to display
them. This is always the way; it is only natural
that ladies should be most generous ia exhibiting
features which they themselves cannot possibly
value at a very high estimation on the score of
beauty. Towards midnight one gentleman whose
calves had run down to his ankles was the source
of much innocent amusement.
* * *
The invitations were issued for 8 o’clock,
but aB early as 7 the visitors began to arrive, and
from then until after 9 they came streaming in
in hundreds. The Mayor and Mayoress received
tneir guests just within the ballroom, and bowed
to each lady and gentleman as tney passt d into the
room. The Mayor was dressed in his robes of
office, and the Mayoress was a charming “ Maid of
Kent.” Lord and Lady Carington and suite ar-
rived about 9 p,m. and were conducted to the dais
by the Mayor, and then the grand parade com-
menced, led by the Mayor and Mayoress When
nearly all present hud exhibited themselves, the
dancing began. In the opening quadrille, Lord
Carington danced with Miss Young, the Mayoress
—the Mayor with Lady Carington, and Aldermen
Playfair and Hardie, with thsir partners, took the
Bides. Lady Carington looked most lovely in a
magnificent dress of white brocaded silk made
with a long train—on one side was a tablier of
silver gauze; the bodice was low, and trimmed
with silver jet. Her ladyship wore, es usual,
beautiful diamond jewellery. The Mayoress, as
“ Maid of Kent,” wore a gown of white net, which
was covered with green leaves and fl owers of the
hop plaDt; a large hat of white satin, trimmed
with white feathers and green leaves. To attempt
to describe a tenth even, of the costumes, would
be out of the question, but we shall mention just
a few that setm worthy of special notice. Lady
Manning wore evening dress of fawn brocade,
trimmed with white lace; Mrs Hardie, as “Mary
Queen of Scots,” wore the usual black velvet robe,
with white satin front, high pearl collar, and black
velvet and pearl cap; Miss Enid Maoarthur, In a
becoming dress as a “Laly of 1848,” looked ex-
tremely pretty; Miss Florence Watt, as “Powder
and Patches,” was universally admired; Miss Cox,
as " Dorothy Forster,” and her sister, as “ Citizen's
Wife, 1720,” were veiy successful in their choice of
costume; Mrs J M. Purves was an extremely banc -
some “Eleanor of Castille,” her costume baieg
about the moat elegant and costly in the room. It
was composed of the richest wh te satin, the front
beautifully embroidered with blue and gold. The
long train was a lovely shade of blue satin lined
with amber satin; the graceful flowing sleeves
were also liaed with amber satin, and bordered
with a deep gold fringe, the low bodice almost
coveted with sparkling jewels and pearls. Miss
Isabel Wallis was bewitching as a “ Watteau Shep-
herdess”; Miss Edith Creer was a charming “ Liny
In George 111. Reign”; Miss Grenfell, very pretiy
as a “Court Lady in the 17th Century ’; Mary
Seton, In pale blue; and a lady from Double Bay,
as “Red White and Blue,” came in for equal
shares of general admiration. Mrs. Scrivener
(Melbourne) was artistically attired as a Gipsy
Fortune-teller, in a skirt of buttercup-colour satin
flounced with black lace, while the bodice was of
black velvet and Indian muslin covered with
sequins and cards. Miss Florence Wade, in pearl-
grey satin, was a charming representative of Mary
Beliingdon, a lady who made herself famous for
her brusque refusal of the love of Prince George.
Of the gentlemen, Mr. Q rung Tart bore off the
belt. He went a 3 “ Masaniello,” a character that
admirably suited him. Mr. Forbes Angus went as
a Chinaman of high rank. Mr. F. Sachs was a
conspicuous “ Richard I." Colonel Wells showed
how he frightened the Soudan folks in Kna-
kee uniform—no wonder the niggers fled.
Mr. Gibson was a styll.h “ Claude Duval.’
A special train had been put on at two p m.
for the convenience of western suburbs
guests, end with their departure the ball closed.
Needs helped things along cleverly in his capacity
of M.C., and his band of 20 performers did quiie
all that was expected of them.
* * *
On Saturday, the 24th inst., his Excellency
and Lady CarlDgton went by Bpeeial train r.o
Liverpool to be present at an entertainment given
to the inmates of the Benevolent Asylum by Mr.
Quong Tart and a number of ladiss. Atthe'l’own
Hali his Excellency was regaled with the usual
address, and at its conclusion drew from his pocket
the same well-worn “reply” that has doneduiy
on so many occasions. You all know it, therefore
the classic words that it contains may remain un-
published here. The Convent school-children
came out with their little bit, and Miss Elsie
Marsden rsad an address to Lady Carington and
presented her with a bouquet. Then the “ party ”
went over the buildings and saw the poor old sun-
downers and “ hatters ” who have been mercifully
collected aad provided witb a home. Next came
the entertainment, and the gifted Horace Bent, in
his well-known character of Negro Minstrel, began
to smooth out the wrinkles on the 500 old faces
that looked up at him, Horace must have given
the best that is in him to his audience, while
Keenan simply opened his mouth and hid behind
it. After this Mr. Quong Tart sang a duot w.th Miss
Playfair, and was immediately offered an engage-
ment by the enterprising Hiscocks. Tne Vernon
band played some good music. The whole affair
was an unmistakable success, aud a credit to all
those by whose exertions it was arranged.
# * *
On Tuesday evening, the 20th inst, a very
successful complimentary ball was given at the
Glebe Town Hall ia honour of Mr. and Mrs. W.
Burton. The detail arrangements were excellent.
* * *
At Windsor Castle, the room oooupied by
John Brown has been closed since his death, and
the Queen has placed a large brass tablet in the
bedroom, which bears an Inscription relating the
late J. B.'s virtues. This tablet laps right round
the room, and the end sticks up the chimney.
* * *
On Friday evening, the 23rd inst., a grand
Masonic ball was held in the Masonlo Hall,
Walker street, (St Leonards, to celebrate the
jubilee of her M»j esty's accession to the throne.
The spacious saloon was decorated with trophies
of flags, and the general appearance of the well-
lighted building was very effective. His Ex-
cellency the Governor (who was attired ia the
dress aud regalia of a Past-Grand Warden of Eng-
land, accompanied by Lady Carington, Captain
Saeritfe, a.D.C., and Mr. E W. Walllngton,
arrived shortly after 9 o'clock, and were received
by Mr. John Williams, Dr. Sedgwlok, Mr. E O.
Smith, Mr. Westoott, Mr. Simpson, Mr. Fisher, and
the members of the committee. Kopsch's band
played the National Anthem on the arrival of the
viceregal party. In the opening quadrille Lord
Carington danced with Mrs. Fisher, and Lady
Carington with Dr. Sedgwick. A long programme
was danced through with unflagging energy. Lady
Carington was, as usual, dressed in excellent
taste, and there were many other handsome
toilettes in the room. The catering department
was well managed by Compagnoni and Co.
* * *
The many friends of Captain Marx, of
H.M S. Swmger, out of whom a native recently
tried to c <rve an Idol, will be glad to hear that that
gallant officer has thoroughly recovered; but from
all aooounts that savage sculptor is past praying
for—lt would be piety thrown away.
• * *
Tae Hon. Ji hn and Mrs. Bales, of Duoken-
fleiu Park, Hunter River, Dropose to entertain a
large number of their friends at a ball early next
month.
* a »
The members of the Tarboltou Lodge are
arranging for a large ball early in August.
* » *
Mr. and Mrs. Fell entertained a party of
friends at Meryton, Arncliffe, on Friday evening
last. The dance was given to commemorate the
birthday of Miss Fell. Dancing till nearly day-
light.
The Petersham Owl Club gave their first
entertainment of the present season on Wednes-
day evening, the 21st, at the local Town Hall. The
first part of the entertainment was in the form of
a concert, and a number of ladies aud gentlemen
pleased a large audience by contributing some
delightful ballade, well-chosen operatic muslo,
good recitations, violin selections. &o. When this
was over the chairs in the body of the hall were
removed, and danoiog indulged ia for about a
couple of hours. Refreshments were provided In
a room down stairs. The ladies were very happy
In the choice of their costumes on this occasion,
many handsome and becoming ones being dis-
play ed. Mrs. M’Donald wore an extremely elegant
gown of black Spanish laoe; Miss Deacon, a be-
coming and simple dress of *hite muslin and
white laoe, with trimmings of ivy leaves; Mrs.
Weteener, red satin draped with quantities of
black laoe; Mias Levy, a very handsome com-
bination of crimson plush and pink sattn profusely
ornamented with artificial flowers. A pure white
cashmere, with trimmings of bright violet, was
much admired; also a cream satin and laoe cos-
tume, with buuclies of pale-pink roses about the
skirt.
* * *
The Meroautile Rowing Club have finally
fixed the date for their eleventh annual ball for
Tuesday, the- 3rd of August. It is to be held in the
Exhibition Building, and Mr. w. W. A. Blackstone,
hon. secretary, has Issued a circular stating the
conditions under whloh tickets are to be obtained
and the arrangements the committee are making
to secure a successful entertainment, a rtsult
which can scarcely fail under the circumstances.
No tickets will he sold at the ballroom door.
Messrs. Needs’ string band provides the music,
and Baumann caters. His Worship the Mayor has
promised to be present, and will open the ball at
nine o'clock sharp.
* * *
His Excellency and Lady Carington at-
tended Miss L. Costello’s lecture on “ Pleurisy,” in
the Technioal Hall, Pltt-street. At once all Potts
Point beoime deeply Interested in the subject, and
“ Pleurisy” is quite the “ talk” now. In the same
connection we would protest against the persecu-
tion that G.E. and his wife suffer at the hands of a
few old and dull women, who fancy they have a
right to crush Lady Carington upon all occasions.
At the Mayoral ball they stood guard the while
time, just to keep the “ vulgar” off. If they knew
what is thought of them they would give up the
post instaater.
» * *
It is the intention of H.E. and Lady Caring-
ton to be present at the opening concert of tha
Misses Joran. to be held in the Y.M C.A. Hall on
Friday, the 30th inst. We trust that the gifted
sisters will receive au ovation.
* » *
The marriage of Mr. Charles Bergoff
Andrew Harper, of Melbourne, and Mias Eliza
Smith Hltchins, fifth daughter of Mr. Frederick
Hitchens, one of the oldest and most re peefced
Australian colonists, took Diace on Wednesday,
7th July, at St Paul's Pro-Cathedra 1 , Melbourne.
The bride was becomingly dressed In navy-
blue merveilleux satin handsomely trimmed with
plmh, hat and feathers to match, and held in her
hand a lovely bridal bouquet The bride was
accompanied by two bridesmaids, her sister (Miss
Hltchins*, andja little niece (Miss Alexandra Birk-
myre). Miss Hitchins’ costume was very hand-
some-satin cashmere, plush trimmiDgs, hat and
feathers t) match. Little Miss Birkmyre wore a
p etty straw-coloured cashmere, crimson sash,
with crimson mother Huobard bonne . The im-
mediate friends and relitives of the bride re-
paired to the house of Mr. Hitohins, Bays water, Bt.
K Ida, where a dejsuner was partaken of, after
which Mr. and Mrs. Harper left for Mordialloo.
Tae bride's travelling costume was prune astracan
cloth, trimmings, hat and feathers to match.
* « *
The Royal Society of England have found
out that H. E. Russell, of Sydney, is an astrono-
mer, and have made him a Fellow. We don't
know what that does for a man, but we know that
Mr. Russell has been famous ia his profession for
some 20 years; so that it is quite in the order of
things that an English society should to-day begin
to And this out. We congratulate the society.
* * *
English papers have, as a rule, avoided
maxing any reference to Australian colonists in
England. Tne only remark we have lately seen
was to the effect thit they looked a dreadful lot at
Prinoess Beatrice's “At Home,” many wearing
billy-cock hats and no neckties.
* * *
It is said—heaven help us!—that Sir Thomas
and Lidy Braisey will soon be on their way to
Australia in the Sunbeam.
They stood conspicuously near the dais at
the Sydney Jubilee ball for quite half-an-hour,
looking so happy, so loving, and so handsome
As “ heedless as the de id were they of all around,
above, beneath,” and wnh clasped hands they
waited there, careless of the roll of time., or the
harmonious invitation of moving music. The
cynosure of neighbouring eyes, they were soon
observed by Lord Carington, who, looking towards
them, observed—” What a very loving couple I
Husband and wife, of course? ” “ Tea, your Excel-
lency, husband and wife,” reDlied au attentive
geebung, but he omitted to add that the husband
was someone else’s husband, and the wife, the
wife of another man. So the idyl of the dance
was not bust up, and bis Excellency is assured that
there is at least one very happy and dutiful
married couple in Sydney.
■ * *
There was a small sensation in a Sydney
suburb last wer k when a stalwart actress literally
“ scruffed ” a very fragile literary admirer of hers.
The trouble wa« “all along ” of certain tioketsfor
Mayor Young's Jubilee ball,
* * *
At a wedding that took plaoe at St.
George's Church, Hobart, last month, some con-
sternation was ere <tad by tha non-appearance of
the bridegroom—Mr. George E. Tidswell, of North
Shore, Sydney—at the appointed time. The bride
—Miss Fannie M Bmtth, of Hobart—bridesmaids,
guests, and parson were all ready, only waiting
for the necessary bridegroom to complete the
oeremony. The funny man had mistaken the
locality, and proceeded at first to a Congrega-
tional Church, half a mile distant, whloh occa-
sioned nearly half an hour’s delay. In due time
he appeared on the scene, and promised to “ love
and cherish” In the ordinary way just as If nothing
unusual had happened.
* * *
A plain and fancy drliiASocial was given
last week by Mr. and Mrs/Tt. J. Hughes, when
about 70 of their friends j»sre present, and a most
enjoyable evening; spent. Among the fancy
costumes worn by ISdjes the most noticeable were
“Forget-Me-Not,” “Swiss Peasant.” “Greek
Lady,” “French Ladv,” “Peg Woffington,"
“German Feasant,” and “Sea Nymph.”
* * *
On Friday last the Darlington Sooial Club
oarried out a very pleasant social at the Oddfel-
lows’ Hall, Newtown. About 80 guests attended In
spite of the unpleasant weather. Dancing was
kept going till 4 o’clock, when the party reluct-
antly separated.
* * *
H.M.S. Miranda returned to Farm Cove on
Friday last from a oruise In the South Seas. We
understand that sport has been bad there this
season, and not more than two brace of niggers
were bagged, but they were in fine condition.
• * *
Something very like the olimacteric of
sooial meanness was attained in Sydney by persons
who were anxious to go to the Mayor’s ball, but
found themselves without the neoess iry “Invite.”
Not only were invitations accepted ia order that
the name on the admitting card might afterwards
be altered so that another person, not invited,
might go, but acceptances were also sent by some
who had never been invited at all, In the hope of
obtaining the necessary card. The latter dodge
came off in several instances. The aristocrats of
Sydney have some funny little ways.
♦ * *
We read in a Birmingham paper that when
the 150 Colonials lately visited Sir Thomas Brassey’s
mansion, Normanhurst, some of them, who were
very hungry, “by some means or other got
hold of a ladder, which they reared up against the
side of the house, climbed up, pressed their faoes
against the windows of the rooms in which lun-
cheon was being laid, and encouraged the footmen
and others to more active exertions. Sir Thomas
gave his visitors a magnificent luncheon, but it
operated very unfavourably upon the animal
spirits of the less well-mannered amongst them.
One individual, a member of a learned profession,
actually so far forgot himself as to dance a jig on
Sir Thomas Brassey’s biiliard-table. Of course the
more respectable portion of the guests were horrified
at the disgrace inflicted upon themselves by the vul-
garity of their fellow colonials, and many of them
have vowed never again t> attend any entertain-
ment got up for the benefit of our colonial guests."
Tbe whole murder comes out in the last few lines.
The gilded swells from Australia wno reside per-
manently in England are ashamed of those of
their colonial brethren who are new to the toady-
ing business, and Instigate the circulation of lies
about them. “The more respectable portion of
the guests I” Humph I We could name ’em all,
one after the other.
On Saturday, the 21th, Miss Alice Maelean,
eldest daughter of the late Dr. Maclean, of Alberto
Terrace, Darlinghurst Road, was married to Mr.
Llewellyn Meredith. The wedding took place very
quietly at St. John’s, Darlinghurst, at half-past
two in the afternoon. The bride looked very
handsome in the usual bridal attire. She was at-
tended by no bridesmaids, and there were very
few guests. After tbe ceremony the party drove
to Caprera, Elizabeth Bay, the residence of Mr. J.
M. Purves, where light refreshments were par-
taken of. The newly-united couple left for Mel-
bourne by the express train on Monday afternoon,
the 26 th.
* * *
Oar dear old friend, Archibald Forbes,
has at last married Miss Lulu Meigs, daughter of
General Meigs. Perhaps it would be more to the
point to say that Mies Meigs has at last gone and
married Mr. Forbes as It seems that it Is the lady
who has been besitatlog. The wedding took plac9
in Washington, and was very fashionable.
* * *
The gentlemen of Albury are to give a
fancy dress ball on the night of the 29 th Inst. The
dressvs worn at the Bydaey Mayoral ball are being
used up in tae country.
* * *
la Adelaide they are to have a Jubilee Ex-
hibition, and the Government, to make sore that
all classes will enjoy it, have cut down the Civil
servants' salaries 20 per cent, in order to pay for it.
This is as it should be. If you want fun you must
pay for it. If, after their exhibition, they still
find the country too prosperous, we can lend them
Mr. Dlbbs for a year. Woen they’ve done with
him, a billet In the Civilservioe of B.A. will be, just
about as good a thing as a man can go for—next to
the gallows.
♦ * *
Grafton was en fete last week, the ocoasion
beiog the annual races. The weather looked very
threatening, but luckily held off till after the 13th,
14th and loth, th\ three days of the year whea
Grafton condescend to be amused. Everyman,
woman, and cht.u ia Clarenca and Ricnmond
diitriots seemed topffiiere, and all enjoyed them-
selves. The arrangements, taken all through,
weretexcellent, though It is rather a pity that the
accommodation foie* the ladies, who mustered In
great force, is so limited. A part of the stand has
been partitioned off for their exclusive use, and
as there is no lawn, the only available pieoe of
ground in front being full of tobacco smoke and
bookmakers, the feminines looked like so many
birds in a cage. Of oourse there were some dances,
Mesdames RyaD, Small, and Norrie opening with a
ball on Tuesday night, the Gymnasium coming
next with one on Wednesday, and the bachelors
winding up a very pleasant week with an im-
promptu hop on Friday.
* * ♦
The Orchestral Union, Hobart, is an in-
tensely aristocratic musical society. As the
entree to Government House, however, does not
ensure vocal ability, the select union has to get
help sometimes from individuals who have never
entered those sacred precincts—and probably
never wish to. A young lady, considered quite
outside the aristocratic circle, has given valuable
assistance on many occasions In rendering music
beyond tbe capabilities of the union vocalists, and
in a manner that charmed the audience, but a re-
cently-imported clergyman’s wife objects to this
lady’s appearance with the union, because she Is
independent enough to earn her own living. If a
few more women were brave enough to work for
themselves there would be less marriages of c?n-
yenience, with _ the usual Divorce Court ter-
mination.
» » *
Nothing struck the Q»ieen so much at the
“Colonies” as two emu eggs. Faithful subjects
will be pleased te hear fhaf they were hollow.
Our old friend, RoJreFt BroSule Doddle White, to
whom they were said to belong, presented them
to Her Majesty, and ttaeoonsequenoe Is that laying
emus have gone up to a fabulous price, every
colonist wishing to send an “ egg ”to Windsor. A
good hit of Emu White’s.
» * #
Lady Carington has intimated that she
win be unable to receive visitors on Thursday, the
29. h, as usual.
■ * *
That funereal town, Gmnnedah, has at last
aroused itself from a lengthy sleep. “ Sassiety ”is
to the fore. Cards have been issued for a grand
ball on the night of the 27th inst.. in the local
School of Arts, by the “ Lady of the Gunnible.” It
is expected there will be a most fashionable assem-
blage.
* ■ *
Albury made a start in the way of
Cinderella danossonWednesday night last—a grand
success being the result. The music was inspirit-
ing, the danoiDg good, and the dresses elegant;
the only fly in the perfumed ointment being the
conduct of a few—very few—gentlemen, who—
awl Well, don’t yer know ?—“nevah dance square
dances, old fellah”; not even when two or three
sets only wanted “ one couple more ” to enable
the Lanoeahs to be started Several ladies laid
claim to the belleship, which by many was con-
ceded to Mrs Dr. Kennedy, in pale-pink satin with
net trimmings and ostrich-feathers; Mrs. H. M.
Keighdey looked quite regal in a rich black cos-
tume; Mrs. Abercrombie was tastefully attired in
black silk, and beautiful trimmings of broche and
net and old gold, beaded gloves; Mrs. Walker
Jones wore a handsome black velvet broche; Mrs.
Willis, cardinal, and ooffee lace; Mrs. Maokay,
cardinal satin with pearl embroidery; Mrs.
Chauncey, ruby velvet with long train; Mrs. James
Paton (Noorongong), Mrs Mitchell (Geelong), Mrs.
Smyth, and Mrs. Flemming, all la black; and Mrs.
Willis (Singleton), in cream and cardinal satin.
Among the youDger ladies were Miss Fraocle
Hayes in a charming co3tume of white net with
blue satin bodice, trimmed with blue ohenille;
Miss Brown, handsome white net and pink satin
bodice; M's) Edmondson, an extremely beautiful
pale-blue satin; Miss Minnie Moore (Benalla) ap-
peared in a very beautiful black lace skirt, with
satin bodice, trimmings of jet, and sprays of
wheatears. marigolds,and poppies; Miss E. Brown,
cream satin and net; Miss Willis, cream cashmere
and blue trtmming; Miss Esther Moore, rich cream
satin, cardinal net trimmings—very pretty; Miss
Shaw ( Sydney), nice black net and old gold; Miss
Carrie Moore was prettily dressed in cream muslin
and ne ; Miss Cowley, a tasteful pale-blue satin;
Miss Fowler (Melbourne), in neat black laoe; and
Miss Watson, white satin and net waterfall.
* * *
The Woollahra Private Assembly was even
a greater sucoess this month than on previous
occasions, the number being more numerous, and
a great many tickets were refused even at that.
The arrangements were well oarried out, and the
supper was provided by Baumann, in his best
style. The music was in excellent tune, and the
floor of Nithsdale perfect. Mrs. Birkmyre wore
pink cashmere and plush; Mrs C. J. Roberts,
richly jetted black, waterfall back of black tulle,
tufted with deep oream chenille; Mrs. Russell, a
combination of ruby and pink; Mrs. M’Carthy,
crimson plush; Miss Roberts, cream silk and
lace; Miss Dunnicliff, oream satin profusely jetted
with white satin beads; Miss Rotten was a sucoess
in flame-coloured tulle, dotted all over with silver
balls, mixed with surah of the same tint—a side
panel on the skirt was riohly embroidered in silver;
Miss Lilias (Melbourne), in white lace and satin;
Miss Hardie, in cream eatiu and lace, with beauti-
ful corsage wreath of natural flowers; Miss C.
Hardie, in black lace and merveilleux, the bodice
having a wreath of natural flowers from the
shoulder to the point of the bodioe; Miss King
looked charming in pale-pink brocade and cream
lace, as did Miss E vans in white tulle and satin,
with long trails of Held flowers.
♦ * *
The London Sporting Times is an exten-
sively-circulated twopenny organ whose princi-
ples are sufficiently indicated by its motto, which
is “High Toryism, High Churchism, High Farming,
and Old Port for ever.” Thus discourses the
1 imes aforesaid, whiMi, by the way, may be seen
under the arm or sticking out of the coat-tail
pockets of every second London masher whom
you meet in the London haunts of sport or the
drama:—” What with Gus Harris, and what with
Sir Thomas Brassey, and what with the Prince of
Wales, these colonial visitors are becoming a trifle
of a nuisance. The royal enclosure was crowded
all this week till the rain eame, owing to 200 of
them having been pitchforked on to it by royal
command. Very decent fellows In their wav,
doubtless, these descendants of convicts and bush-
rangers, but why English ladies and gentlemen
are to be excluded from what amounts to a
national privilege beats us.” Very gratifying,
this sort of thing, for the thousand and one
grovellers who just now think they are “ promot-
ing Imperial Federation,” and making a splash in
the society of the modern Babylon.
They met in a hosier’s, and one was stony,
and the world knew it. Yet was he engaged In
buying silk pocket-handkerchiefs at a guinea
a-piece. “ Hang it, old man,” said his friend, who
was of a cautious disposition, “ aren’t you a bit
too hard up to be buying pooket-handker-
ohiefs ” “ Hang it, to you. I am broke, but
I ain’t so broke that I can't afford to blow my
nose.”
The N.B.W. Government are considering
a proposal, lately made, that a condensed weekly
authentic report of leading colonial events be
transmitted by cable to London. This is the sort
of thing which we fully expect to find sent
through to London once a week:—‘‘Sydney,
Augusts”. Thanks five million and half loan—
intend asking more soon. State railways afford
good security now that several leading citizens
temporarily stopped robbing Treasury. Colony
absolutely intoxicated loyalty—frenzied excite-
ment pending arrival Queen’s statue for pedestal.
King-street, Bydney, to face statue Albert Good.
Proposition testimonial Prince of Wales enthusi-
tioaliy received, but deepest regret expressed
Potts Point, Toorak subscriptions limited two
guineas. Beware lest Queen see Mayor Young’s
oolleotion photograph?, and die suddenly. Caring-
ton patronised lecture on Pleurisy—splendid mus-
tard-plasters, blisteriag fluid exhibited. Dailey
will advise Queen when gout better. Rumoured
here baronetoy contemplated Premier, also Mayor
Queen's Jubilee.— Jennings,”
The seoond hearing of the Crawford
divorce ease has apparently wiped out Sir C carles
Dilke for at least the next few years. His anxiety
for a new trial resulted In the Anal smash up of
the Commandments which Moses first fractured
on Mount Sinai, and the evidence, which at the
outset only distinguished him as a ruffian, now
places him in imminent danger of a prosecution
for perjury. But though his character has been
completely demolished by his own evidence, it Is
absurd to assert, as so many papers are doing,
that bis political career is finished. The wife-
kicking Duke of Marlborough is emerging from
his retirement like -the sun from a cloud, and
“ Wales ” has extended him the claw of sincere
friendship, and lifted him once more into
"sassiety”; Valentine Baker, too, is undergoing
a carbolic acid process which will soon end
in complete disinfection ; he has been a
popular hero ever since he aided Chakir
Pasha ia covering the disastrous retreat of the
Turkish army behind the Balkans, and robbed the
gallant Ottoman of his share of the glory. In the
same way tsir Charles Dilke will blossom forth
once more, and if his Liberal friends reject him he
will probably come out on bis old Democratic
ticket, or turn Tory and hunt for a peerage. Even
in his early republican days his creed was of the
reversible order, and was not buttoned very tight.
When walking down Piccadilly, not so very long
ago, we encountered a huge plush flunkey, a gor-
geous compound of insolence and beer-steak,
carrying a bag marked “C. D.,” while his em-
ployer, the owner of those suggestive initials,
stalked along majestically in front. Sir Charles
went in for liberty, equality, and fraternity in
those days, but still he did not walk side by side
with John Thomas, and that prismatic menial
seemed a little out of keeping with his doctrines
Of republican simplicity.


COURTING IN THE COLD.
Now is the cold, cheerless season when the
gaunt wet wolf of Winter devours the last shred
of the Autumn iamb; when cool “shandies” are at a
disoount, and gruel with a stick in it at a premium;
when the ice-cream merchant tratsfornos his tra-
velling barouche into a baked 'tater and hot
saveloy emporium, and when a prudent man
would as soon think of going without the back of
his head as without his waterproof and his pocket-
handkerchief This is no time to sieg the sweet
songs of love, and yet they must be sung ; for
love, like some of our Supreme Court judges,
knows no law. To our t-ale, however. 'Twas
night—a night that would chill the blood in an
Esquimaux chief who had been drowned ten days
—when the lovely Mary Jane Spottletoes, of Wooll-
ahra, hurried through the rain to the trysting-
place, at the rear of her stern parent s fowl-house
to meet Robert Peter Magubb, who had won her
maiden affections; though she never told her love,
but let it Led on her damask oheek like a Sydney
alderman on a quarter of beef. Robert Peter was
up to time, flipping his manly chest with his sema-
phore arms and doing impromptu sand-jigs to
keep his oeruleaa blood from freezing. They met.
They encored the performance. But alas ! a
shudder ran through their veins. Robert Peter
felt as if he had just slid down from the
top of the North Pole, and Mary Jane was pain-
fully conscious of the fact that while her fond
heart throbbed with love's fever heat, her nose
was swollen the s zb of a prize banana, and had a
glowing lustre on its retroussi tip that would have
done credit to a Collins stroet doctor's door-plate.
* * *
They met once more. Robert Peter having
found one dry corner in his blue baniana, wiped
his eyes, and Mary Jane held in her disengaged
hand a handkerchief wet with her maiden tears.
Robert Peter was the first to speak. It is always
the male lover who, figuratively speaking, has to
“break the ice.” “Oh Bary Jade,” he cried, “I
have logged bor a bobendt suohasdis. I cub do
dell you dow ob-ker— shew-w-w-ob subd'g dearer
do me thad by life. Da tibe had come, Bary Jade>
when I bust—ho-RASH-ooohl Cu-THRASH-ooohJ
I’ve ged such an awful code.” “So hab I,” mur-
mured the trembling girl, as she fingered her
handkerchief round in the vain hope of finding a
dry spot. “Darllg,” began the warm, yet shiver-
ing lover again, “ you bust hab seed how mudge I
lub you—you bust. Widout you I cannot—oik-
cik-THERASH üb. I cannot ooh-ooh-eik-oik-ker-
Chew.” “Oh heabedsl” sighed the fair young
girl, trying to look languishing; “this is bursse
dan death.” “BaryJadel by ondy lub, look up;”
exclaimed the distracted lover. And then, lifting
her azure eyes to his, she gazed trustingly in hiß
poor, pained face, and said, “ Ker-ker-ker-ke-
TiSH-yu,” and then a Blue Mountain waterfall of
spray deluged Robert Peter from the pomatum
Oil his topmost hair to the soles of his well-
soaked bluchers.
• * •
Order being restored, the amorous Ma-
gubb toed the scratch onca more, and began:—
“Darligl Whad id hobe widout a mother—l bean
—what id life widout a lub er ? Nuddlg. A bar-
lid plain, a starless sky, a world bldout a sun*
Dink ob dis, by owd, an say, cad you lub me edough'
to ah-ah-ooh ker chevv! Heavigsl Dis is doo
butch, doo butch entirely. I ask agaid, lub, cad
you think of walking down life’s thordy bath bith
be ? Cad you lub be edough to be by bride ? ” Just
here the maiden’s love ovecame her timorous re-
serve, and dropping her fair head, with its price-
less wealth of golden curls on her lover's shoulder,
she threw her shapely alabaster arms round his
neck, and placing her coral lips to his ear, sweetly
murmured, “ Oh, Robid Be ter! sher-sher-sher-kek-
kek-ah-fis/i ooon! ” Then the floodgates were
opened once again; and Robid Beter mentally ob-
served that he had never felt so thoroughly soaked
before since the days of Noah’s Deluge. To make
matters worse, tha fowls, finding their rest dis-
turbed, began to hold an indignation meeting,
and pass votes of censure on the lovers in tones
that threatened to rouse the whole street.
Accordingly, the unfortunate Robid and Bary
Jade moved further along, and got into a small
lagoon, where Robid, grasping his subject and
his Bary Jade, once again began:—
* • •
“You dow, by soul’s adored, I cad doe
loggeg lib widout you. Dake Mty, den, on one
who would gladly gib ebed libe itself for you, an’
say will you be by owd, by darllg wife ? ’ Again
did the fairest of her sex encircle the neck of her
lover with her ivory band, and again did she essay
to make him the happiest of men, when suddenly
her fairy form became convulsed, her breast
heaved like the billows of an angry main, her
back curled fitfully up and down like that of the
Soudan donkey's when he'@ trying to buck, and,
finally, she broke out into a string of sneezes that
caused her trembling lover to fear she would be
scattered into as many chips as the boy who was
ass enough to stand on the burning deck when the
rest of the crew had setoted. “Oh, by lub I
by brecious dear! Combode yourself,’ ex-
claimed the distracted Robid; “tell be bud one
word: will you be bide—speag—speag, lub, I
imblore you—bide—only bide-cik-cik-clk-howa-
rash-alooo I ’ This time it was Bary J ade who got
the free bath, and it seemed to bring her to a
trifle, for she mansged to catch on to Robid by
both and sob: “ I bill, Robid—l bill.” Then he
,drew her dear, damp form to his; their loving
eyts—those crystal windows of tae soul—gezed
tenderly, even pitifully at etch other’s scalded
nose-tits, ard then for ten solid minutes
there oame forth a sound on the silent mid-
night air like unto that of a cow pulling
her hoof out of a bog, or the popping of a
beer-cork behind the scenes at a charity concert.
“ Heavig bless you, darlig-I bust away,” sighed
the now happy Robid; “all to nigd's woes bill
serbe bor sweed discourses in our tlbe toeome.
Bub-bub-bless ym, dear, l bust away” And so
he “ busted ’’—just in time to hang over a friendly
lence, and exclaim sber-sher-sher kik-kik-ker
SHAwh-h H, while Bary Jade threw herself on the
wood-heap, and replied sh:r-sher-aher-kik-kik-
ker-SHU u-u!
Parents who have their children’s welfare
at heart should ponder o\er the above sad
sketch, and see that, for the future, the young
people are enabled to do all their courting on a 30-
guinea couch in front of a good cheery parlour
fire.
The Parsee cricketing team’s recent first
appearance at Lord’s was a most ridiculous per-
formance. They are “ about ”up to the form of a
bad house eleven at Eton, and eurpristd the
habiti-4s of L <rd's by patting on underhand bowl
ing at each end. But how could people with Parsee
names ever expect to play cricket? How would
this read in a match report The bowling of Mr.
Dadhabhoy Dinshaw Dusthoor was perfect, while
Mr. Muncherjee PestODjee Burjorjee’s fieldicg at
point was unique, and the wicket-keeping of Mr.
Shapurjre Nusserwanjee Bheiwar was worthy of
Pilling or Biackhaml”
AUSTRALIANA.
A Wellington (N.Z.) bailiff, while distrain-
ing for rent, took a sauoepan off the fire, turned
the meat out which was being cooked for dinner,
plaoed it on a pieoe of paper, and seized the sauce-
pan. Such a bailiff deserves to be rewarded—with
half-a-brick....A Queensland man who believes in
omens dreamed that a dangerous rock existed
somewhere in the steambra'-ohannel, and he spent
48 hours in an open boat and a howling gale
looking for it, lest some vessel might get
wrecked Bxtraot from minute made by
the head of a branoh In a certain N.S.W.
Government department This oemertery has
been dedicated fora general denomination 0n1y.”...
According to the director of the Sandhurst (Vie.)
School of Mines, there are in that colony 4500
black savages, and in all Australia 150,000
heathens who have never been rubbed down by a
bishop or put a sixpence in the collection-plate...:
Odds are offered that only three “distinguished
colonists” out of every five now in England will
live to get back to Australia. The others will be
either apoplexed with banquets or smothered in
jam — A correspondent of the Gunnedah Adver-
tiser calls upon the local community to roll up
and aid the editor In fighting the libel action
brought against him by J. P. Abbott A new
chum from Plymouth, England, informs the
Wallsend and Plattsburg (N.S.W.) Sun that that
port is placarded with posters “Steam to Kim-
berly : the new Australian goldfields!”... A coun-
try paper reports the expulsion of the “Due
D’ A Mule” from the French army. This is agri-
cultural shorthand for the Due D’Aumale.. ..
Te Whiti, the Maori prophet, has telegraphed to
the natives in the disturbed districts that he will
be able to predict the next eruption. Poor old Te
Whiti couldn’t predict the last one....At Hook-
wood (N.S.W.) the cricket club has burst through
financial troubles and an obdurate creditor has
seized the ball as security for his debt A
Queensland paper speaks despondently about the
negleot of the colonists to cultivate oereals, and
looks forward to a time when the people will
have to live on salt-horse and bananas
The Armidale Chronicle says times are too bad
to allow of it speaking of the “N.S.W. railway
frauds;” the amusement might come rather ex-
pensive. It calls them the “alleged frauds.”....
The will of the late Peter Manifold, of Victoria
and Queensland, has been sworn at under £154,800
—which sum is fairly cut up amongst deceased’s
relatives —Apropos of a visit recently paid by
some distinguished colonial visitors to the house
of Lord Ashburnham, a London correspondent
remarks that “ when a strange gentleman, hailiDg
from a remote land, enters an English nobleman’s
or an English peasant’s house—it is not usual for
him to proclaim truculently that he is a blooming
Victorian; nor is it usual to ask a servant for a
spittoon while smoking a huge cigar in a stranger’s
drawing-r00m.”.. .J. R. Hedges,formerly of Cey-
lon and Fiji, is bankrupt. Liabilities, £119,970 >
assets, £5; creditors’ prospect, one-ninety-ninth]of
a penny in the £, and nothing left for the lawyer.
Such is life At holy Adelaide 11,000 boys and
girls, who never saw a totalizator in all their
blessed lives, have petitioned against the legisla-
tion of that instrument. Their petition is endorsed
by no less than 11C0 teachers, who taught
them the totalizator vices and wickednesses
Judge Docker, of N.S W., thinks a man should
work five days with a team of 13 bul-
locks and a waggon for £4 The s.s. Galveston,
lately arrived at Cooktown, had 15 tons of opium
for all Australian ports—the duty on which would
be £30,000. The stuff has been brought to the
country to enable sensual Chinamen to keep them-
selves and the white women on whom they prey
in a state of semi-coma Very bad news of
Kimberley from several private sources. The
mud is waist-deep at Derby landing-place; the
field is 400 mileß distant from the latter town;
carriage is £3OO per ton; fever and ague abounds;
officialism is rampant; in fine, every evil is present
except gold—the root of all evil. The vaunted field
is a lie, a delusion, a fraud—tus man who goes
there with any idea beyond being food for the
crows is a fool. Kimberley gold-field would be a
paradise for any millionaire whose ideal of happi-
ness was burying the poor gratuitously.
It is hard, very hard, for sneaking lip-
loyalty to suppress itself. Last week, Rev. Gribble
preached in Sydney on the horrors of the North-
west, and a resolution was passed, commencing:
“That in the opinion of this meeting, after hear-
ing the statements of the Rev. Mr. Gribble— in this
the Jubilee Tear of Her Most Graetous Majesty’s
reign— it is desirable that a Royal British-Aus-
tralian Commission should be formed to inquire,”
&c. What the jubilee year has got to do with the
state of aborigines in Western Australia, would
puzzle even the shining lights of the Y.M.C.A., or
the author of the glowing description of poor
Brown’s knees, to fathom. The next record should
be that Christian loyalists “in this happy year of
jubilee, are glad to learn that no Royal Commis-
sion has been appointed to convert those wicked
barbarians, who, like the Crawford? and Dilkes,
infest the society patronised by Her Most Gracious
Majesty and H.R.H. the Prince of Wales.” There
is room for a few thousand Gribbles in London—
and for a few hundreds of ’em in Sydney, too.
A DILEMMA.
They gathered at the muster-place with hallelujahs
strong,
To squelch poor old Beelzebub with sheepskin and
with son*t;
Then at the captain’s signal they all marched
along the street,
The lassies shuffled alter them with hurried slip-
shod feet;
An ancient sister followed, sad and slowly in the
rear,
And spoke of blood and sinners, and with low
words that seemed like prayer.
And there was one amongst them who but lately
bad been saved
From crooked ways (and Berrima), and now was
well-behaved;
And when the meeting-place was reached the
music ceased to play,
The erriog one took off his hat, prepared to have
his say,
Then drew his sleeve across his mouth and told the
people round
How good and happy now he felt since he the Lord
had found;
He wanted sinners, great and small, to be just saved
like him,
And find salvation—at this point with tears his eyes
grew dim—
When rushing from the gaping crowd a jovial
“ boozer”trod
Upon his toes, and murmured forth, “ So you’ve
got out of quod! ”,
BRIEF MENTION.
“ L.O.L.”—Sir ’Eurv’s revised version
“Hell! OhHelll”
Four deaths by suioide in Sydney last
week. Sydney Punch is to be revived by Mr. W.
H. Hicks.
“ Curious find in a mine” is the heading of
a par In a Melbourne paper. They had found
some gold.
A Northern man deolares that the pre-
eminent characteristic of Sydney people is dirt.
So? Well, then, the pre-eminent characteristic of
Northern folks is D.T. There now 1
A man in Yiotoria had his 80 year-
old father run in because he was childish, and not
of robust health. We are going to have our pa-
ternal progenitor arrested for gout.
A Jew has been fined for drunkenness in
Melbourne. He is about the first Hebrew on
record who has ventured to trench upon the
“Christian” privilege of makiDg a beast of
oneself.
In Coonabarabran, N.S.W., a juror was
excused as he pleaded deafness. One of the others
remarked, “I can’t see how it matters whether
he’s deaf or not; he’s only got to hold up his hand
when he votes ‘guilty ’ or ‘not guilty.’ ”
A sporting butcher, at Ross Island (Q.),
challenges another resident, by advertisement in
the local paper, to kill a pig for stakes up to £lOO,
“ the verdict to be settled,in.appearance, time, and
execution of work.” It is presumed that execu-
tion of pig will also be taken into consideration.
From the Newcastle (N.8.W.) Herald:—
“ The number of people who partook of tea at the
Orange meeting on Monday was about 700. We
mention this as, owing to a mechanical defeot in
the final cypher, the number appeared as 70 in
yesterday’s issue.” Such is the reward of the poor
compositor who tells the truth by accident at
Newcastle.
Rev. and Mrs. John Alexander Dowie still
continue to go into Melbourne grog-shops to pray
people out or their thirsty propensities. Let the
persecuted publican take example by a hero of
the Amerioan whisky crusade, who let his groggery
for bedrooms. When the ladies started praying
the guests started about going to bed. and then the
ladles shrieked and left.
“There are two Scotties in Coonamble—
Scotty the Wrlnkler, and Bcotty the Whistler.
The Wrlnkler was drunk and so was the Whistler.
The former fell, and could not rise, so he called
out, “ Help me up, ye whustlin’ dell, help me up.”
The poor whistler could hardly stand, so he said,
“ Man, a canna; but I'll tell ye I’ll dae. I’ll
lie doon aside ye.” Where, among vour so-called
Christians, will you find sympathy like that ?
At a recent football match in Hobart—
Melbourne v. Southern Tasmania-some onlookers
were horrified at hearing exclamations from an
excited R.C. priest, apparently quite out of keep-
ing with “ the doth.” Their feelings, however,
were much soothed by the discovery that he was
merely enoouraging one of his flock who was
playing, by .crying, “Good, Goddard 1” but a
tendency to lower his voice in the latter part of
the name oast a dreadful suspicion of profanity
on the reverend father.
“What must we do to be saved?” is the
enquiring title of a traot which was handed to us
last Sunday evening by a dyspeptic Hallelujah
mother-in-law. Through the kind attentions out-
side our bedroom window of an amorous cat of
the sex that votes, we were enabled to bestow
a large amount of thought upon the connundrum,
and have come to the conclusion that in order to
keep out of that locality where an ice-chest would
command millions one must join the Salvation
Harmy, wear a second-hand napless militia coat,
sell the War Cry, show as a trophy, become a
capting, run away with a brother officer’s wife, be
converted from a drunkard's life enco a quarter
regularly, and finally, before a large and unsoaped
crowd, relate “ How I fell away from the Lord.”
An issue of the Sydney Evening News one
day last week contained another avalaEche of one
horse, or rather one corpse obituary notices re-
lating to a dear departed one in the euphonious
name of—say Bloggs. There were no less than seven
reminders of the deceased one’s departure from
this vale of tears. Some beautiful verses attached
were well worth perusal, if only to show what
idiots are allowed to live on the outside of the
hospitals for the insane. This is how we would
immortalise the subjects of such poems:—
Dearest Bloggs, we miss thee
From this vale of tears,
Pas 3 around the whisky.
Drown our grief in beers.
Oh that death had taken
All your friends so dear,
Left you quite forsaken,
But right off the bier.
They do not seem to be "a purely loyal
crowd at Townsville i Q.). At the last meeting of
the local council, a circular came to hand from
the Mayor of Adelaide, requesting the members to
00-operatein according “Wales” a proper recep-
tion on his imaginary visit to Australia, and when
the document was read, Alderman Simpson—a
Sootchman, tool—rose and declared unanimously
that he did not oire one solitary twepenny cuss
whether “Wales” came to Townsville or not.
Then Alderman Stout got up and said that there
was no coolness or ill feeling between him and
“ Wales,’’ and he was prepared to make allowances
for the prince, as he probably did not know any
better, bat he objected all the same to be taxed
on his account. The rest of the council gazsd at
these two disloyal persons with a stony glare in
its municipal eye, much after the style of Cain
when he sat down to Inspect the unconsumed
pumpkin on his altar, and Anally, when the mem-
bers had done waiting for a thunderbolt to fall on
Stout and Simpson, they passed a resolution that
they would And a well-aired bed for “ Wales”
should he visit Townsville. The two aldermen
should have a statue.
Ninety-five just men, residing at Single-
ton (N.S.W.), have forwarded a petition to the
Assembly which “ humbly showcth” the follow-
ing faots:—"That your petitioners regard the
Divorce Bill presently before your honourable'
House as contrary to the spirit of the British Con-
stitution and the revealed will of God, and injuri-
ous to the people of this colony,” and they, there-
fore, desire that your honourable Heuse will drop
the said bill into Woolloomooloo Bay, and “as in
doty! bound they will ever pray,” &c. Why they
should pray is not exactly stated, though the
N.S. W. Assembly affords scope for a good deal of
devotion, but the point about the “revealed will
of God ”is the most incomprehensible of all. We
were induced to hunt up the authority for this
statement, and at length we found it in the book
of Deuteronomy, sandwiched in between a com-
mandment whioh permits an Israelite to steal
grapes, and another whieh prohibits a man putting
a millstone up the spout. The law in question, we
find, permits an able-bodied male citizen to write
out a declaration that he divorces his wife, and this
being done he has only to open the door and tell
the lady to “git.” After that she may marry
again as soon as she liker, and the only hardship
is that her former husband must not change his
mind and marry her over again. Bead by the
light of Deuteronomy there does not seem to be
anything very dreadful about the N.3.W. Divorce
Bill; but perhaps the people of Singleton have
commenced at the beginning of the Bible, and
have only got as far as the place where Esau sold
his birthright for a cask of potash. Possibly,
however, some of these reverend gentlemen wno
are so fond ot writing 50 pages to prove the tre-
mendous differe ce between the north-east and
the south-west sides of a religious hair can ex-
plain away the Singleton petition to make it fit
the Scripture or plane down the knobby parts of
Deateronomy to make It square with the petition,
and then truth will once more prevail.
Amerioaa and English papers please copy.
When Mr. Wise, in his recent leoture at
Goulbum, quoted Messrs. Hudson Brother’s estab-
lishment. near Sydney, as a proof of the advant-
ages of Freetrade, he sesms to have hit on a
rather unluoky illustration. A correspondent of
the Bydnev D.T. points out that the shares in this
concern-13s. 61. paid up-are hard to sell at 55.,
and adds that almost every industry in N.B.W. is
in a similar bad condition. Freetrade is not all
unadulterated joy.
There are more troubles on the road to
Kimberley than are dreamt off in the new-ohum
digger's philosophy. The wild and disorganised
native who haunts the route is bad enough, but
when that coloured brother gets tamed matters
grow worse. One of his favourite tricks is to sell
a baby-alligator to the dusty pilgrim on the pre-
text that the saurian is valuable as a guide to
water, and so apparently it is. But in a few days,
when the scaly pet has become tame, it wants to
come up and put its head in its master’s lap, or if
it fails to notice it. it purrs and rubs its head against
the side-wall of its proprietor, after the manner
of a tortoise-shell house-pussy, and the result of
this fondness is generally fatal. One caress from
this pet reptile usually sorapes away about six
ribs and leaves the alligator’s landlord with his
lungs hanging out at one side and the process of
digestion exposed to the public gazs. A good
many men are likely to disappear on the road to
Kimberley through speculating in these armour-
plated favourites.
In tbe debate on the Customs Bill in the
N.B. tv. Assembly, it transpired than even In this
pastoral country of Australia butter is skimmed
off other animals than the cow. When the pro-
posal to tax this consolidated grease was brought
forward, Mr. Inglis pointed out that while butter
and lard were to pay Id. per lb, “ butterine”
would be admitted free, and Mr. Brunker added
that the latter compound was largely imported
from Victoria «nd sold as butter. Mr. Garland ap-
parently defended this s windle, and objected to
any duty whatever being imposed on the imported
article, real or sham, as only the cheapest kinds
came from other colonies, and the charge of Id.
per lb. would therefore fall on tbe working classes.
To anyone else it might appear that to class ta'low
and slush among “ the cheapest kinds of butter”
Is equivalent to defining a pump as the most inex-
pensive description of cow, but nobodyappeared
to observe the incongruity. Finally the item was
passed, and as the result genuine butter will
henceforth be a dutiable article, while butterine—
though It may smell like the burning Cities of the
Piain—will frisklacross the border, as before, with-
out any liability, and then be christened anew
and compete with the pure article. This looks re ’
markably like offering a premium to unprincipled
Victorian persons who perpetrate vile outrages on
the cornstalk digestion, but it is only one Item
more in the N.S.W. legislative muddle.
“The Confessions of a Thief,” by Joe
Bragg, form a notable addition to Australian
literature. The first part of this autobiography—
to be continued in monthly numbers—proves, on
perusal, to bo a threepenny paper-covered “ baa”
from the pen of a lost sheep Just returned from
the wilderness, and It is likely to be of immense
benefit to the youth of the colonies. Joe Bragg
was once, we presume, a white-headed Sunday-
school innocent, who recited pretty little pieces
about Mary and her little iamb, but he fell from
graoe and concussed himself considerably in the
descent For 23 years he led a criminal existence,
and defied all the efforts of those who sought to
pluck him from the burniDg, but at length he has
been saved and takes his place among the slangy
cherubim who are warring against Bin and
syntax in N S.W. In commencing his story
he mentions that before he was 17 years of
age he “bad committed thousands of rob-
beries and had been convicted about a dozen
times,” from which statement we are Inclined
to fancy Joe is just now doing a prosperous
trade in the wholesale Ananias business. In these
early days it appears Mr. Brsgg was a “wire,”
and would often make a good haul when he
chanoed to “pipe a boozington,” and was able
to “ keep his lamps on him.” He also did some-
thing in “snow-dropping,” but owiDg to 111-luck,
brought on by associating with a “square-head,”
the “demon put pincher on Mm.” These facts
are of thrilling interest. As he grew older he
got Into the higher walks of his profession, and
would often “ bash up to a bug,” assisted by one
or two other “guns,” turn him over and take the
money “out of his kicks,” though on one er
two occasions it happened that “ the bug gave
out the pay,” a circumstance whieh lea to
trouble. In more than one Instance, too, Joe
“whipped the jills” of his associates, but
they “tumbled,” and, being “fly,” made some
difficulties regarding the “mug.” After reading
these enthralling statements, we can only regret
that this hallelujah “ bloke” cid not adhere to the
Evenikg News, which is the recognised medium
for such confessions as his for, in attempting to
tread the flowery paths of threepenny slush he is
wasting his sweetness on the desert air. In short,
te seems to have made a “ bloomer” in more wajs
than one, and unless there is more cherub and lees
Ananias in the next number of his autobiography,
his venture as an author is hardly likely to be
a success.
A Parisian spinster confesses to having
attended 600 balls In the effort to catch a husband.
....Mr. Stead, ef Pall Mall, has been hoaxed.
Some wag has sent him the names of the leading
Ulster football clubs, Buch as the . *■ Swifts,’ .
“ Olympic,” and “ Hangers,” and be seriously put
them all into his paper as ‘ Ulster Army”
brigades.... Vanderbilt has been blackballed at the
Paris Jockey C1ub....” I hear, at the Drawing-
Room. the other day, when one of the pages, as is
his office, gathered up the train of one of these
fair over-eea debutantes, she turned fiercely on
him and said, “See here, young man, none of
those liberties with me I”— Vanity Fair It
cost the city of Liverpool £14,863 to “ receive ” the
Prince of Wales. Thus do gluttonous grovellers
waste public money while the British poor are
siarving in dozens like sheep in drought-time
Many landlords are leaving Ireland with their
plate and household goofs — It is a curious thing
that a" The Claimant’s” eldest ton twho has en-
listed) bears a much stronger resemblance to the
traditional Tichbornes than does the acknow-
ledged young Sir Henry Tichborne, whcse estates
have been carefully nursed during his minority,
and who now finds bimsvlf, at the age of 21, a fairly
rich baronet.
A NEW BULLETIN POEM, BY FOE.
Biddy Rooney—shipmates called her.
And she took delight
In the ooat of dirt that walled her
Virgin charms from sight;
And her mouth was wide and roomy,
And her eyes were also rheumy,
And the agent brought her to me
Rather late at night.
I in stifling night of summer
Sate in dusty room,
And I rose to greet the comer,
Handed her a broom;
All the scrubbing that distressed me
I forgot as Biddy blessed me,
Dreaming not how soon she'd best me
For a ’bu* horse groom.
Only spake this weighty tramper
In the Kerry tongue,
And she made the callers scamper
When our door-bell rung;
Boots it not to speak of smashing,
Naught I’ll say about the washing
Of this Celtio colleen, slashing,
Ruddy-haired and young.
But it came about one morning
At the hour of cream,
Waiting milkman’s yell of soorning
Burst in on my dream;
Every step but mine was whitened,
Every other door-knob brightened,
But my purse and wardrobe lightened,
And I, fragile, fainted, frightened,
With an awful soream.
GEORCE BLACK.


WHAT FOOTBALL WILL COME TO.
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
(Established 1860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &c., from the Southern
Colonies or New Zealand, may be made to Arthur
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
Hor Rlajasiy the Quean,
H.R.H. \hs Prince of IVaies.
H.M. the King |of the Netherlands .
. r
H.I.M. the Czar of Russia.
Agents for New South Wales ;
TRAPP & ELLES,
54 MARSARET STREET, BYDNEY.
IA SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic-
Dolokkux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary ! In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
r*' CURE FOR BLIGHT.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
531 George-street, only.
oT LOUGHNA^
Importer, Manufacturer, & Wholesale Dealer in
TOBACCOS, CsGARS, CIGARETTES,
And TOBACCONISTS’ GOODS.
The Largest Stock of above in South Sydney to
select from.
Manufacturer of the undermentioned Registered
Cigarettes “ Lord Carrington,” “ Our Boys,”
“ All Nations.” “ Prince Imperial,” “ Our Girls,”
k Boston Bride,” and our '* Soudan Boy.”
Tobaccos —“ Boston Navy,” “ Prince Imperial,”
"Soudan Navy.”
Sole Agent for
PARNELL’S HOME RULE NAVY TOBACCO.
A large supply received in stock. Each plug a
reasonable week’s supply. Price 6d.
Warehouse and Stores :
639 and 714 GEORGE STREET,
HAYMARKET, BYDNEY.
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
y_
SRAm
NEBV
TREATMENT
i)r K. C.' West's Nerve and Brain Treatment, a
guaranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions,
Fits, Nervous Neuralgia, Headache, Nervous Prostration
caused l>y the use of alcohol or tobacco, Wakefulness,
Mental Depression, Softening of the Brain resulting in
insanity and leading to misery, decay, and death, Premature
Old Age, Barrenness, Loss of Power in either sex, Involun-
tary Losses and Spermatorrhoea caused by over-exertion of
the brain, self-abuse or over-indulgence. Each box contains
one month’s treatment. ss. a box, or six boxes for 255., sent
by mail prepaid on receipt of price. We Guarantee Six
Boxes to Cure any Case. With each order received by
iis for six boxes, accompanied with 255., we will send the
purchaser our written guarantee to refund the money if the
treatment does not effect a cure. Guarantees issued only by
JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
65 MARKET SEREET, SYDNEY,
Circular sent free on application.
£lOO Reward!
We will pay the above reward for any case of liver com
nlaint dyspepsia, sick headache, indigestion, constipation or
eostiveness, we cannot cure with West’s Vegetable Liver
Pii LS when the directions are strictly complied with. They
are" purely vegetable, and never fail to give satisfaction*
Large boxes, containing 30 sugar-coated pills, Is. For sale
by all druggists. Beware of counterfeits and imitations.
The genuine manufactured only by
JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
65 Market-street Sydney, N.S.W.
Sent Prepaid by post on receipt of Is. per box in stamps.
WWW
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMFNT.
Infallible remedy for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
Snrains Cuts, Burns, Scalds, Bruises, Headache,
Mumps Hip Disease, White Swelling, Felons, Chilblains,
Whitlows Chapped Hands, Frozen Feet, Bites of Insects,
Sore Throat, and all diseases requiring external application.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers.
Price, Is. and 2s. per Bottle.
JOHN C. WEST & CO., Sole Proprietors,
SYDNEY, CHICAGO and
’ TORONTO.
s
V.
These Stains being a Varnish and Stain combined, require neither size nor
knotting before or after application.
“ Those Stain now who never Stained before,
And they who once have Stained now Stain the more.”
6d., Is,, 25., 4s. per bottle,
Sold by Chemists, Stationers, Ironmongers, Oilmen, Storekeepers, se., <f<?.
Marie Brizard I
When refreshing slumbers fail to visit
your pillow, take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Gilbert, the convicted cricketer sneak-
tbief, stole £2B out of a man’s pocket. He made 28
not out.
Gloom and despondency removed by
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Butler W. Ormonde, Private Enquiry
Agent, 313 George-street, undertakes all kinds of
confidential business, traces absconders, wife
deserters, and missing relatives ; procures oopies
of certificates and wills, at moderate rates. Col-
lector of rents and debts- Acts as agent generally
Letters written. The most absolute secrecy ob-
served. Note the address3l3 George*street,
second floor.*
Marie Brizard I
Drink Wolfe's Schnapps and enjoy good
health.
Marie Brizard!
Individuals afflicted with gravel ©r other
kidney difficulties need Wolfe’s Schnapps.
During the last three seasons the Princess
of Wales has never appeared in public without a
red parasol. What does that foreshadow ?
Be warned in time and take Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Our bullocky is the champion liar of the
station. Coming home in the rain the team were
bogged, so the driver knocked one of the near
bullock s horts off with the butt-end of the whip.
He told the boss that he had a miraculous escape
from lightning, and as a proof showed where it
had struck one of the team and knocked off a
horn.
Persons whose avocations keep them in-
doors should take occasionally Wolfe s Bchnapps.
Marie Brizard!
Wolfe's Schnapps imparts healthful vigor
to the brain.
df
Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for everv form, of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
*tto
S 3
m
*ss
v/
Scrofula on JSeck-.
PI M PLES to SC ROFU LA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Bcaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Internally, and Cuticura and Cutic-ura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, eleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cere (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautiiiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, SO cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
! ing Soap, 15 cents; Cutjcuba Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared et the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co , Boston, U.S.A.
GOOD NEWS FOR THE MUSIC
LOVING PUBLIC.
A BRANCH OF THE
MUSICAL lISTEMIT
DISECT SUPPLY ASSOCIATION
Is NOW OPEN at
674 GEORGE-BT., SYDNEY,
With the Largest Stock of Musical Instruments in
the Southern Hemisphere,
AT LONDON PRICBS, SO per cent, less than
Sydney prices,
Direct fre m the European manufacturers to
the Australian consumer.
4/6, 5/C, 7/C, 9/0, 12/0. »7 O, 21/-, 25/. *O/.
45/, to £2O.
Specialty: The German- ADglo, in wood box, 21/-
„ Ditto, superior, with steel notes, 35/-
0
o'*
ACCORDEONS
99 «n‘-/o*‘-/0«‘-/3* -MZ
»/LI ‘/SI 9/SI 9/01 ‘9/1
fpeoialty: The miniature Melodian, 21/--
Ditto, oak, with steei notes, 42/-.
10/6. IS/-. 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Specialty: Old Copy Violin, with case, bow and
instruction book, 85/-.
CORNETS
Specialties:
ii
40/-, 50/-, 75/-. 105/-, 130/-
f to £lB.
Tae new “Levy” model,
with water key £5 5 0
Tne new “ Reynolds” model,
with double water key .. 9 10 0
The new “Reynolds" Echo-
attachment Cornet .. 12 10 0
Emm 1/6 to £lO.
About 100 varieties in stock.
Specialty : The 8-key Cocoa D Concert Flute,
with slide-head, in case, by
beet English maker 50/-
THE BYafIPHONETTE!
In nickel silver, with six tunes, 30/-.
Extra tuzcs, 1/- each.
From 5/6 each to £lO.
The " Walter Howard ” American Nickel Banjo.
£3 3s.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands furnished
throughout. Negro Minstrel Troupes fitted out.
C arionets, Violin Strings and Fittings, flageolets,
Drums. Guitars, Harmonieons, Tambourines,
and, in fact, an nesortment of every class
of Musical Instrument, from a
Jtv’siEarp to a ChsKh Orgu
All instruments careful acked and forwarded
to any part of the vies.
LOUIS SBfiSONSEIV,
Manager.


WHY HE MARRIED HER.
BROWN: “GOOD HEAVENS! SO THE OLD PASTOR IS REALLY MARRIED TO HER!
JONES: “YES, HE MARRIED HER SO THAT SHE SHOULDN’T BE SNAPPED UP.”
FLIEOENDE BLATTER
PAUL HEBE
UNLIKE OTHERS
DOES NOT
jpr
5^
pP l^
rfROM
RtiICHEMISTS
riNIO&2OOZ B 0T s
I WHOLESALE AGENT
HOWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL pre-
serves, strengthens, and beautifies the hair : it
contains no lead or mineral ingredients, and can
now be also had in a golden colour, which is
especially suited for fair or golden-haired ohildren
and persons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a most
oooling, healing, and refreshing wash for the face,
hands and arms, and is perfectly free from any
mineral or metallic admixtures; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &o.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OP TYRE
produces immediately a perfect change in red or
grey hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a glossy and
permanent brown or black, which colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless Imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bros.,
B. Prosser & CO., Sydney.
D R RIDCE’S
FOOD
for INFANTS™ INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
WIDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and exper'enced Laundresses say that it is un-
equalled tor imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at Bd. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E. Prosser
and 00., Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge: Comet Go., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of Bpurlous and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
J. BUTTERFIELD, Chemist, 141 Xllzabsth
Street, Kedfern.
Xjln-oaa G-loss
■A.’foraJa.a.Kn.’s
Fills
The Great Liver Remedy.
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
•lightest particle of mercury or mineral substanoe,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
Immediate relief.
484 GEORGE STREET.
MARSHALL’S
TONIC. NERVINE
TRADE MARK—“ TONIC NERVINE.’*
JL bAFR, CERTAIN. & SPEEDY CURE tor Ner-
M TOUfl and General Debility, and all complaint*
that spring: from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia.
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
Ac. By its tonlo and soothing effects it at onoe
removes all craving for Alcohol. By its riohness
in phosphorous ana other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL’!* TONIC NERVINE nour-
>»beJ and gives vigour • she whole system.
Price, 63. Sold every wht re. Prepared only bv
MARSHALL BROTHERS, Sydney; N. S W. i
London, Eng.
TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
H
OLLOWAY’S PILLS
A never-falling remedy In all Derangements of
’ithe LIVER and BTOJIACH, they may be used with
perfect confidence by young and old.
Their world-wide fame for the lust fifty y< ars Is
« guarantee of their efficacy. Thousands of testi-
monials, from princes to peasant®, attest their
marvellous virtues.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford st., London
|ar Purchaser should look to Label on the
Boxes and Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-
, gtreet, London, they are spurious.
MALTINE.
MALTED BARLEY, WHEAT AND OATS.
The only Extract of Malt containing these three cereals.'
One Bottle of Maltine is equal (in digestive power) to from 3 to 5 bottles
of any extract of Malt in the Market.
Digestive value 30 times its own weight.
“ Wheat and Oats are especially rich in muscular anil fat producing
elements.—Liebeg.”
Maltine will increase both the weight a*nd f rill in most persons of thin habit.
Highly recommended for delicate females, weak and debilitated
children and infants, and for mothers whilst nursing.
Is very palatable and will be readily taken by the youngest child.
Maltine is invaluable in cases of Consumption, Wasting Diseases, Nervous
Debility, &c., Indigestion, Constipation, and convalescence from Illness.
Prescribed and Recommended by all the leading Physicians and used in the largest
Hospitals. Analysed and approved by the most prominent Chemists of Europe.
Maltine with Pepsine and Pancreatine is the best remedy known
, , for Dyspepsia, Cholera Infantum, and all diseases resulting from imperfect
■ '' digestion. There are few cases that will not readily yield to this preparation.
Maltine with Hypophosphites is most valuable in cases of Consump-
tion, Rickets, Softening of the Bones, and Neuralgia.
Malto Yerbine is the most effective remedy for Bronchitis. Coughs,
Colds, and difficult Expectoration. B
Maltine With Cod. Liver Oil; an agreeable and effective mode of adminis-
tering Cod Livor Oil.
Maltine with Iron and Quinine, or Iron, Quinine and Strych-
nine a most powerful and nutritive tonic for General Debility, &c.
Maltine with Phpsphorus Compound is especially adapted for all
overworked brains and those of sedentary habits, suffering from General
Lassitude.
Maltine with Alteratives is a remedy of the highest val le in all depraved
conditions of the blood, Scrofula, Ac.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING- CO., LIMITED, LONDON.
Marie Brlzard!
Wolfe's Schnapps, the grandest tonio in
the world.
No one can be sick if £he stomach, blood,
Hver and kidneys are well. American Co.’s Hop
Bitters keeps them well. Notloa
THE MISERY, SHAME, AND SUFFERING,
often bequeathedjis a sole legacy to children by
parents, is neglected serofula. To cleanse the
blood of this hereditary prison at this season, and
thus remove the most prolific cause of human
suffering 1 , to clear the skfn of disfiguring humors,
itching tortures, humiliating eruptions, and loath-
some sores caused by it, to purify and beautify the
skin and restore the hair so that no trace of the
disease remains, Cuticitra Resolvent, the new
blood purifier, and Cuticpraand Cuticura Soap,
the great skin cures and teautiflers, are infallible.
Marie Brizardi
Sedentary pursuits are enfeebling. Then
take Wolfe's Schnapps.
Certainly one of the most suooessful City Hotels, in respect
of first-class Wines, Spirits, &c., and with regard to Lun-
cheon, is Hanney’s Great Northern Hotel, Charlotte-place.
A first-class Luncheon is provided from 12 to 3, which is
patronised by the commercial men in this part of the city.
Just make one call, and we are sure you will be satisfied.*
Marie Brlzard I
Marie Brizard I
Wolfe's Schnapps a powerful and whole
some tonic.
A SPECIAL INVITATION.
We especially invite a trial by all those sufferers
from kidney and liver complaints who have failed
to obtain relief from other remedies and from
doctors. Nature’s great Remedy, Dr. Bell’s Bitters
has effected cures in many obstinate cases. It
acts at once on the kidneys, liver and bowels,
eleansing the system of all poisonous humors, and
restoring a healthy condition to those important
organs. Do not be discouraged, but try it.
£5OO will be paid for any case that Am erican
Co.’s Hop Bitters will not cure or help. Doubt
not. See
ABSENT-MINDED FATHER
“ How old is your little boy,” asked Mr. Smitbi
ofWaverley? “Be is just eight.” “No I ain’t,”
said Willie, “I'mlO.” “Why, so you* iv, of course;
what am I thinking about? ’ “ 1 guess ycu must
be thinking about Anhtuser Duscti St. Louis Lager
Beer, Pa.” “ Why, of course I wes.”
In ease of emergency you should keep a
bottle of Wolfe’s Schnapps on the premises.
Marie Brizard I
(CONCENTRATED BEEF, WHEAT, AND MILK).
Containing 95 per Cent. 01 nutritious matter. There is nothing to equal
it as a flesh-former, fat and bone producer. Pleasant in odour
andtaste to the most delicate persons.
* s in cases of Convalescence from all diseases, Pulmonary
attections, I evers, Pneumonia, Weak Digestion, Gastritis, and all
btomack Ailments, Dyspepsia, Diarrhoea, Dysentery and all Intestinal
Xnseases, Phthisis, Cholera Infantum, Marasmus, Vomiting in Pregnancy,
bea bickness, Diabetes, Excessive use of Alcoholic Stimulants, and in
debility resulting from any cause.
Also a valuable adjunct in voyages and camp life. It will build up the system
after severe prostration.
It contains all of the valuable constituents of Beef, Wheat, and Milk.
Being in the form of a dry powder it will keep in any climate.
A lew suoonfuls equal to a hearty meal, and being partially digested,
makes but little demand upon the digestive powers.
It possesses 60 times more nutritive substance than Beef Tea. Mnttnn
or Chicken Broth made in the ordinary manner.
One ounce of Beef Peptonoids contains more nourishment than five
pints of beef tea prepared from eighty ounces of beef.
It contains ten times more nutritive matter than Liebig’s Extract of Beef
or similar productions.
i and recommended by all leading Physicians, and used in the
largest hospitals. Analysed and approved by the most eminent chemists in Europe.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
TEE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIE., LONDON.
DR, BELL’S
(KIDNEY AND LIVER)
BITTERS.
NEVER KNOWN TO FAIL.
CURES ALL DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS,
LIVER, BLADDER,
AND URINARY ORGANS, DROPSY,
GRAVEL, DIABETES, BRIGHT'S DISEASE,
PAINS IN THE BACK,
LOINS, OR SIDE, NERVOUS DISEASE,
RETENTION OR NON-RETENTION OF URINE.
By the use of this REMEDY the stomach and
bowels speedily regain their strength, and the Blood
is purified.
It is pronounced by hundreds of the best doctors to
be the ONLY CURE for all kinds of Kidney and Liver
Diseases.
It is purely vegetable, and cures when other medi-
cines fail.
It is prepared expressly for these diseases, and has
never been known to fail. One trial will convince
you of its value.
AFTER DINNER
Persons who suffer from Indigestion can arrest the
progress of that painful malady by the use of Dr.
Bell’s Bitters, so composed that it will give tone to
the stomach, prevent heartburn, rouse the liver to
healthful action, invigorate the kidneys, and thus,
through the activity of these organs, promote the
natural movement of the stomach and bowels. Dr.
Bell’s Bitters are so compounded that their action,
though mild, effectually produces the above results.
They, also, in curing Constipation, remove the cause
of Biliousness, Liver Complaint, Kidney Diseases,
Rheumatism, and many other serious ailments.
Note. —Any poor Person, or the manager of any
Hospital, Asylum or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medibine.
BELL’S BITTERS
Manufacturing Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND, & AUSTRALIA.
O
Butcher, Fehon & Co., Sydney,
AGBNTS FOR
New South Wales & Queensland.
BSi
BSRjeORffS
iKSSKNCE®*LXFE
'tine only infallible remedy for
/Ter/oils Jj ebiLi jyT
THERE are many men in this colony who are,
day by day, melancholy, miserable, and a
burden to themselves, through early indiscretion
or over-indulgence. It is to those that this adver-
tisement is addressed. Impotence drags its victim
in its unhappy train through years of suffering,
rendering his existence a misery. He sees his
fellow beings hale, hearty, and vigorous—in the
full enjoyment of manhood’s greatest privilege—
and naturally becomes despondent, seeking soli-
tariness, and shunning society generally.
He is lured into trying some of the So-called
Remedies, but without avail, and imagines he
must go down to the grave a hopeless invalid. If
such be your calamity, know that your case can
be relieved and a Cure effected by a simple course
of this Invaluable Medicine, which will, in the
short space of Four Weeks, render you capable
of appreciating and Enioying Lite.
This valuable remedy affords relief, and perma-
nently cures all who suffer from Wasting and
Withering of the Nervous and Muscular Tissues,
Spermatorrhoea, and all Urinary Deposits, which
cause incapacity and degeneracy, total and partial
prostration, and every other exhaustive derange-
ment of the system—regenerating all the im-
portant elements of the human frame, and en-
abling man to fulfil his most sacred obligations.
The directions are very simple, and require no
restraint or hindrance from business. Pamphlets
enclosed in each case with testimonials.
In cases at 125., or four quantities in one, for 365.;
if by coach, 2s. od. extra. City and suburbs free.
Agents for Sydney:
Messrs. W. BARCLAY & CO.,
43 Goulburn Street,
One door from George Btreet, South.
Parcels, packed securely, and free ffOtt Obser-
vation, sent to any part of the colony on receipt
of Notes, P( 8t Office Order, or Postage Stamps,
with the greatest promptitude.
MOULTON'S
FRUIT
COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON'S
FRUIT FILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say, There are no failures and ne
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
HIE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit).
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price I*. 3«L
0. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor
PILLS


A NEW CIVIL SERVICE REGULATION.
“ALL OFFICIALS TO HAVE ONE ARM AMPUTATED ; GOVERNMENT CASH TO BE
DROPPED INTO OFF-SIDE POCKET.”
(This man is drawn without a head, none being: required in the Government service.)
Know ye all men that Wolfe’s Schnapps has
no rival as a stimulant.
Lady Dilke is the latest sooiety author in
England, and she has recently published a book
full of stories which are almost bad enough to
have been written by a prince with a wet towel
round his head. All her heroes and heroines meet
with violent deaths; they are either scalded with
a basin of hot soup, or fall iato a thrashing-
machine, or perish ignominously among the ruins
of a blazing cow-house, or something of the kind,
and the collection ends with a beautiful illustra-
tion of a skeleton that has stolen a black horse,
and is riding away in a hurry. There is not even
a kangaroo or a bushranger in the whole volume.
Wolfe's Schnapps—A medioine for body
and mind—A time honoured preparation.
The latest female fad with the bewitching
Bostonians is to carry a big cloth bag when " on
the block.” Much ingenuity is expended in decor-
ating these receptacles by embroidery, and other
work. The bag may be carried in the hand, but
the correot Boston style Is to have it flung over
the shoulder, with one bulbous end hanging down
in front and another behind.
To cure all kinds of symptoms use Wolfe’s
Schnapps. Be sure you obtain Wolfe’s.
When Ere tempted Adam with the apple
there) is no Tecord of her having used even a leaf
on which to hand it him. We may presume, how-
ever, that, with feminine taste, she wojuld do so.
Now, after the lapse of ages, modern Eves tempt
modern Adams with the fruit of mother earth,
but they know that nothing displays the rich pro-
duct so well as one of the pretty fruit-sets whioh
people frequently connect with the nann of Bray
Bros , whose stock is unrivalled. Truly women
are the best judges after all. *
fI'HE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES :
61 PITT-STBEET, and 638 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund .. .. ~ 676,000
This Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities lor
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected en most favour-
able terms, at rates which Gaft be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN. Aoting-Manager.
THE ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
W
E specially direct attention to our Large and Well-assorted Stock of
DRAWING ROOM SUITES,
which we hare nicely arranged in our spacious Showrooms. Doing all our own upholstering, we are
in a position to guarantee every article as well and faithfully made.
Our Occasional Suite of 3 pieces, covered in Tapestry,,
£lO 10s. Od.
If finished off with Plush, £l2 10s. Od.
Our Stock of Walnut Occasional Tables, Whatnots, Music Canterburys, Sideboards, Pfcr Glasses’,
u &c., is choice and well assorted.
WE INVITE INSPECTlON-
campbelT7”brothers,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 GEOEGE STEEET, SYDNEY
(Next the Royal Hotel).
Write or send for a copy Of our Illustrated House Furnishing Guide, post free’
WILLIAM FLEMING,
22 & 24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
FLEMING’S
RELIABLE
m.
FIRST GRADE,
STYLE,
QUALITY
and
FINISH.
FEED by ALL the
Leading Citizens.
NOT HOW CHEAP,
BUT HOW GOOD !
?s-
-■-V.
ssk.^
Jfe- .
FLEMING’S
r WAGGONS
and
Harness,
[Specially Imported]
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes,
Call amdlna^eet.
ORO-AKTS I
BOIiB AOBNTB yon THB
“SMITH"
BRUCE ft MASSEY,"
PISS, SMS, 18.
197 Pltt-stSydnoy.
OFFORD & CO.’S HATS
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
Next to Royal Motel, and at 652 George Street.
0®
m Ii OTS
15/- wertf!
\
ft
WA
4*
v*
f't)
if f
Tramwa y Lamp 3am Rboms
LEA&PERR! M S’ SAUC E
ni
SAIJC
ISSBO
sisSlS
alisßS
r . . :
In consequence of Imitations f THE WORCESTERSHIRE*
SA UCE which are calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Perrins
have to request that % Purchasers see that the Label on eveny bottle
bears their Signature thus —
without which no bottle of' the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask _/<>; LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name cm Wrapt er, Label, Bottle and
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse and
Blackwell, London, bpc., Cfc. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Wholesale Agents : Montepio®*, Joseph & Co.; David Cohen & Co., Sydney.
gd
The "LOUIS’*
' VELVETEEN.
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes and
Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact
■ for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
may be used we specially recommend
the “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of “ Louis,”
' ■ May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
send patterns
POST FREE oa
application.
: ' r
$
<r.
V'
fg
OT
'Shoe Ba zaar
252 a Georjfe S t yJ
lute PeeUe ancL BaKc&urL S YDPJS^V.
I&S£
A GUARANTEE with
each pipe tor real
Meerschaum and
Amber.
Fire-proof Briars. Bepairs, &c.
8. ROSENTHAL, Pipemake*,
1 Llitle Collins-street, East, Melbourne.
Illustrated Catalogues on application
rpH® CLIMAX OF PERFECTION
MONTSERRAT
LIME FRUIT JUICE SAUCE.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
ENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES REPAIRED
AND CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Near Market-street.


AFTER MARRIAGE BEAUTY ALONE DOES NOT AFFORD A VERY JOYOUS ENTER-
TAINMENT.
(French joke, freely translated from LA CARICATURE)
Marie Brizirdl
The wearied and anxious business man
should use Wolfe’s Schnapps*
Our bold Australian cricketers
Have won new wreaths of fame,
And shown how truly they have learnt
Old England’s premier game;
While Messrs. Summerflald and Co.
All competition mock,
By selling off at half cost price,
A London bankrupt’s stock.*
Time after all is the one grand test. Wolfe’s
Schnapps has been 35 years before the public.
The drought in New South Wales te some
Has brought a world of woe,
But splendid pants are cheaply sold
By Summerfleld and Co.*
Marie Brizard I
John Yolliner has been hanged in Amerioa
for murdering a woman to whom he had proposed
and been rejected. His only plea la defence was
that she was a widow. Had he pleaded temporary
Insanity from astonishment the jury would have
unanimously granted an acquittal.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is now and has been for
many years a standard professional remedy.
In Sydney Parliament, for three long days,
The fierce Freetraders line a stonewall stayed.
And told ho w ad valorem duties would effect
The port, the country, and the country’s trade.
No wonder that their talk was like the winds
That o’er the western mountains whistling
sweep.—
They feared these duties would stop Summerfleld
From selling his cork tweeds so wondrous cheap.*
Marie Brizard!
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DFVIMG GEAR, Brass & Nlckal-platsd SHOP FRONTS,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, fee.
oun r^ in f > Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing,
P mbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
DOULTON’B "FLUSH-OUT,” "VALVB,” & "PAN” CLOSETS, "VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
p.i a , r PREVENTERS, &e.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, Ac.
®®H ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 8 Hacquarle Place, Sydney.
_ Full particulars and prioe on application.
IJOBRRT BUTCHER k 0.0 .
(Late William Lons),
WT WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT
684 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALT,. SYDNEY
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
RAW VASELINE.
HORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
Collar Check and Serge, 40 and 44 inches ;
Large assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladies’ and
Gentlemens Saddles, Spurs, and all kinds of
Saddlers Ironmongery, &c.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS, AND SADDLERS
IRONMONGERS,
125 YORK ST., SYDNEY.
SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
£ llo 7 y J- rlter U st M followsS EVEN PER CENT on
Md l2 r nthS; FIVB CENT!
ARDS for shorter periods: FIVE PER
R^,^h°Po B^ from £1 to £soin the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
J. V, WAREHAM, Manager,
Listen to Your Wife.
Tho Manchester Guardian, Jtme Bth, 1883, says ;
At one of the
“ Windows
Looking on the woodland ways ! With clumps
of rhododendrons Mid geeafc masses of May
blossoms ! ! ! “ There was an interesting group.
It included one who had been a “Cotton spinner,
but was now so
Paralyzed ! ! !
That he could only bear to lie in a reclining
position.
This refers to my case.
I was first Attacked twelve years ago with
“ Locomoter Ataxy ”
(A paralytic disease of nerve fibre rarely ever ciued)
and was for several years barely able to get about.
And for the last Five years not able to attend to
my business, although
Many things have been done for rae.
The last experiment being nerve stretching.
Two years ago I was voted into the
Home for Incurables ! Near Manchester, in May
1882.
lam no “Advocate” ! “Foe anything in the
shape of patent ” Medicines ?
And made many objections to my dear wife’s
constant urging to try Hop Bitters, but finally to
pacify her—
Consented ! !
I had not quite finished the first bottle when I
felt a change come over me. This was Saturday,
November 3rd. On Sunday morning I felt so
strong I said to my room companions, ‘ ‘ I was sure
I could
“ Walk !
So started across the floor and back.
I haidly knew how to contain myself. I was all over the
house. lam gaining strength each day, and can walk quite
safe without any
“Stick!”
Or Support.
I am now at my own house, and hope soon to be able to
earn my own living again. I have been a member of the
Manchester
“ Eoyal Exchange ’
For nearly thirty years, and was most heartily congratulated
on going in the room on Thursday last. Very gratefully
yours. John Blackburn
Manchester, (Eng.) Dec. 24,1883.
Two years later am perfectly well.
Prosecute the Swindlers l !
If when you call for American Hop Bitters (sec green twig
S°P S i? n white label and Dr. Soule’s name blown in the.
bottle;, the vendor hands out anything but American Hop
Bitters, refuse it and shun that vendor as you would a viper;
J, , e bl ken your money for anything lese indict him
.or the fraud and sue him for damages for the swindle* and
we will pay you liberally for fcfoe conviction.
Never Travel Without It:
Wanted in 23very House.
df
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS
ALINOXIOUS INSECTS^
U
FLEAS. FU ES. BEETLES MOS&U ITOES.
COCKR OACHES.VrSA’rANDIS
AT THE SAME TIME
HARMLESSTO BIRDS BOGS,
FOWLS OR other;
ANIMALS
&
gd
n
FELTON-CRIMWADEUC O ]
—y Melbourne 1
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
Wanted in Every House.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
;
LATENT
LLS
Pi
»
*7
$
45
@>
-A re admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, eold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &o. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
done it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few dos'es of them carry off all gross humours
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEE CHAM’S
PILES for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the systec-a. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females oi
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and al
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will he found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring hack the keen edge of
appelate, and arouse into action with the EOSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &e., these
Pills stand unrivalled ; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
gfflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Beecham’s
Cough Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time he
removed.
Caution.— The public are requested to notice that
the words “ Beecham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d.
each.—Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
The New Furniture and
Carpet Warehouse.
ks, ksn Ergs., S Eg.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
AT
Less than English Prices.
EIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
With three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING ROOMB,
At tha Exceeding y Low Price of J 65 15s
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER SUITES,
At Correspondingly Low Prices.
Furniture for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY.
THE DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING-ROOM.
BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEADS,
in Great Variety.
JONES, LAWBON~ BROS., & CO.
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
FREE BY POST, for six penny stamps, a
Medical Treatise, by that eminent French
Hospital Physican and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Man
hood, &c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address Parisian, P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
fg
w.mum.
LIMITED,
356 Goorge-straet,
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
PIANOS, ORGANS
and
MUS I O
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EASY TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed."!
Catalogues & Prices on Application.
■. H. PALING & Co
556 Georce-*treet, Sydney,
books, books, books.
Bought, Sold, or Exchanged
9f) 000 X? LUMES New and Secondhand
Books always on view at
WILLIAM BYMOCK’S
BOOK ARCADE, 208 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Catalogues post free.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
BULLARD S GREAT SALE OE
MUSIC, STATIONERY, and FANCY
uuuuS. Expiration of Lease, tnd Condemnation
of Premises. Continued Great Sale of Music
mnst oner / Books, Fancy Goods, including the’
most extraordinary collection of the choicest
ySTc the whol« tB ’f Pla^ e , 8 * Bowls > Cloisonni
v ases, &c., the whole of which must be cleared
out. Discount 25 Der cent, reduction on the old
Phi Ce ?a Music.—Thirty shillings worth of nr sic at
the old prices can now be had for One Pound This
sheet c ° m P riß ® 8 ’ amongst other items;"
Sheet Music, Songs, Solos, and Duets
Piano Pieces, Solos, and Duets, and all the newest
and most popular Dance Music newest
& h nI UB rl Anthems, Psalters, Services, &c.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c
Orchestra l and Braes Band Music, in varietv
ftra 11 ® 10 ” 8 ! 1 the most popular works
comprise every kind of Literature-Pre-
sentation Volumes, in prose and verse ; Books
suitable for prizes for boys and girls- Nautili
W orks, Books on Engineering and Surveying
Dictionaries, &e.; and a choice library of Reli
gious works, by standard authors.
JAPANESE BRONZES. Wali Hangings Em
S'T'e'a'^aJr 8 ' P,a<l “ ei! ' hVj”!
PHOTO. ALBUMS in Plush, Morocco, Leather
w«na Cal / , i l pr ? fusel T illustrated, all sizes, at
wonderfully low prices *
ACCOUNT BOOKS, Ledgers, Day and Cash Books-
Prets Copying Books in every style and bind-
ing, or made to order mnu-
LETTtsR PAPER, Envelopes, the cheanest in
“SS^aSSSSaB
ARTISTS MATERIALS- Solid Sketch Block s
?Mt?u2fe n C ,f, P a P “ n ‘ E “ M -
Music Catalogues gratis on application
po°S»Sp'S : . de<lonreoe “ ,t ““w order or
WILLIAM BULLARD,
B*2 GEORGE STREET,


BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
The crushing successive defeats of Neil
Matterson, NelsoD, and Kemp by English scullers,
is bound to set Beach’s admirers wondering
whether thq latter’s “ championship ’ is n it, after
all, an empty title. The two victories over Hanlan
which at the time seemed to stamp Beach as the
“sculler of a century,” had a big hole knocked in
them when the Canadian failed to make a race of
it with Teemer. That test performanee seems to
afford some proof that Hanlan, the phenomenon,
was no more. It is possible—nay, probable-that
Hanlan th<? Phenomenon had ceased to exist when
he toiled, or pretended to toil, after Beach on the
Parramatta River. And it must he remembered
that Beach's reputation rests solely upon that
double conquest over a man woo was, sub.e-
quontly, quite as baoly beaten by a third party.
If, as many good judges believe, the Canadian has
lost all form and is only a ghost of what he once
was in a wage'-b; at, then we have no good line by
which to gauge the “ champion’s ” real capabili-
ties. The fact that he can beat such as Matterson,
NelsoD, and Kemp, goes for nothing when we
find that they stand no chance against men
like Bubear and Perkins. The question, too,
naturally arises whether the smaller colonial guns
would hc.ve matched themselves to confidently If
they had not previously done something which
was considered satisfactory with the great Beach.
Kemp’s defeat by Perkins last week Is especially
significant. With the examples made of h's col-
leagues staring him in the face, Kemp must have
fairly tried himself ere tackling the confessedly
moderate Englishman. However cheap he might
have held English sculling form when he first
landed, Kemp could hardly have underrated Per-
kins’ powers on this occasion. The presumption
is that he overrated his own powers. Un-
doubtedly Kemp and the others have to some
extent taken Beach as their standard and been
“let in ”as the result. This ia not reassuring for
Australia. Assuredly as their victories would
have enhanced the Dapto man's reputation, so
must their defeat dttract from it. However, it is
a little consoling to remember that the oollapse of
Trickett was preceded and followed by the suc-
cesses of his trial-horse, Laycock. History may
bd Reversed in the case of Beach and his tria -
horses.
* * *
Speaking of the first of the matches, Aus-
tralia v. England, we remarked that the English-
men would find it hard to improve upon the Man-
chester 11, except by the substitution of Barnes
for Peate. That change was made, and one other
—Mr. Tylecote takiug the place of Pilling behind
the stioks. The inclusion of a fourth amateur in
the team certainly didn’t strengthen it, lor Tyle-
oote enjoyed the distinction of making a duck.
But, on the other hand, Barnes came off alike
with bat and ball, and in such style as to fully bear
out our argument that no All England 11 need
include a purely “one part" man like Peate.
For the first time on record the Englishmen played
without a tall, that is presuming that Tylecote
has not lost all hi® old batting form. The last man,
Lohman, came off in each of the three previous
innings he had played against the Australians.
The four amateurs, it may noted, scored only 45
runs between them, out of a grand total of 353,
and in the bowling department they were just no-
where at all. Nevertheless, no purely professional
team ever seems to do as well as a Judiciously-
arranged combination, and this last combination
—barring always the doubt about Mr. Tylecote—
is certainly the strongest that could be procured
from the whole crowd of English cricketers. But
even admitting that, the poor show made by
“Our Boys” is by no means satisfactorily
accounted for. We have been so accustomed to
laud their sticking powers in playing an uphill
game, that it takes us rather abac* to find the
last seven wickets falling for 33 runs. When an
English team collapses in the same way, the home
papers are apt to talk about “ funk.”
* * *
A family “rejoicing in the name of Hig-
gins,” recently drove to the Corio Cricket Ground
(Geelong) to witness a friendly game at football.
At the conclusion of the contest, the Higginses
entered their waggonette with tbe intention of
returning home. Sad to relate, however, the
horse, who had been a friend of the family for
many many years, and who is locally believed to
have landed in the colony with Batman, there-
upon commenced to kiek and maltreat the vehicle
which it is his duty to draw, in a most malicious
manner. Moral: Do not take even an old and feeble
horse to witness a football matoh.
» * *
We may look forward next season to some
interesting racing in Sydney harbour amongst
those fashionable little flyers the 20 feet half
deckers. Golding, the builder of the two “Nereus”
craft, which distanced all competitors until the
advent of George Ellis’ creation, the Gcneata, has
a commission to build a new one to beat George
Ellis’ crack, if possible, and es he intends to put
one together as powerful as the latter boat, some
good contests may well be anticipated. Tne
Nereus has had her deck removed, and one only
half the width is to be substituted, which will
give the sitters a lot more power on tne boat when
“hang out” is the order of the day. The* Clytie”
is also in Golding's hands, to be raised two inches
all along. This should make a lot of difference to
her, as hitherto she has only been the bottom of a
boat.
* * ale
Notwithstanding the bad show made by
cur representatives in the recent match against
All England, a sporting resident ofjjtha eastern
suburbs managed to annex a few pounds by back-
log Sammy Jones’ soore against that of each of
the following cracks; —“ W. G,” Bootton, Read,
Barnes, Barlow, Scott, and Jarvis, thus winning
five out of the seven wagers.
• * *
Acoording to all accounts, our riflemen
have not turned out a very happy family News
to hand states that Major Sleep, of Victoria,
wanted to “ boss the show,” a state of things
whioh the rest of the boys were too wide awako
to put up with.
* * •
Articles of agreement have been entered
into between W. G George and W. Cummins to
run three races-distances, one mile, four miles,
and 10 miles resp9Ctively—each race to be for £lOO
a side. The first race (distance, one mile) was
fixed to take place last July 26; the second race
(distance, four miles) to come off on Saturday,
August 21, or Monday, August 23, as may be
mutually agreed upon; the third race (distance,
ten miles) to be decided on Saturiay, September
11 of Monday, September 13, as may be mutually
agreed upon. In connection with his recent races
with Myers on a circus track, George says that he
is not a good clreus-ho r se, but he adds, “One
thing I would like, and that is to run Myers two
races (three-quarters of a mile and one mile), each
for £lOO a side, on a good elnder path.”
* * *
At Foley’s Hall, on Saturday night, Mr.
George Seale, the N.S.W. amateur champion,
made his first appearance in publio, when opposed
by a first class professional, and his friends must
have been more than satisfied with his perform-
ance. Though knowing the amateur to be a clever
boxer, we were scarcely prepared for the masterly
show he made when opposed to an out-and-cuc
scienced performer, suca as Peter Newton, the
middle-weight champion of Victoria. Mr. Seale,
who fights equally well wit h head, hands, and feef,
made ail the play, often leading on to Newton
with the right, and now and then bringing in his
left, one of which on his favourite spot,
“the mark,” nearly put the professional down.
Newton hit the amateur but three or four times
during the four rounds, one of the blows being a
vicious right-hander which luckily lor the ama-
teur landed on his shoulder, for bad it been six
inches higher he would have collapsed for a
oertainty. One of the amateur s best p lints Is the
manner he can “ time” or judge distance, and he
never showed it to better advantage than when
NewtoD, with his usually lightning like left, was
short in his leads.
We have seen all the be3t boxers perform,
one with the other (with the exception of Foley
and the amateur champion), on Foley’s stage,
during the past week, and the general opinion is
that Foley Is still at the top of the colonial pugi-
listic tree. Larry, after repeated trials, has failed
to get on a match, and after a hundred and fifty
false alarms, he now says he has finally made up
his mind to ret're and make way for younger, if
not better men, with which object he 1s giving a
champion-belt to be competed tor. With the ex-
ception of Foley, we do not suppose any man
knows what the champion amateur can do when
at his best with the mittens, and we have an idea
that the redoubtable Larry himself wou'd not
care to give away a ohanoe in a ding-dong go with
his pupi l .
• ■ •
Jack Thompson says he is open to back
Larry Foley, for 5000 dollars, to fight John L. Sul-
livan to a finish, and he only asks for one little
stip elation, which Is, that Foley shall have an
hour’s conversation with Sullivan previous to the
fight. Thompson wants a soft thing for a cer-
tal ty; experts have reckoned that L rry would
talk a bullock into a premature grave ia half
the time.
■ ■ a
Mr. A. 8. Board made, on the 20 th of this
month, at the rifle range, Paddington, the highest
score at musietry that nas been made in N B,W.
—sooring 141 out of a possible 160, viz;-36 at
500yds. out of a possible 40; 36 at 600yds. do. do;
35 at 760yds do. do ; 34 at 800yds. do. do.
• a *
The latest addition to the Viotorlan yachts
is the Wanderer, which has b®en purchased from
South Australian waters by Mr. Fergie, who says
that It hlsitntention not only to race the Wanderer
against all-comers in Hobson’s Bay, but in the
forthcoming series of international challenge
yacht raoes in Sydney waters. In connection wi h
the Wanderer, a Melbourne paper says:-“If the
run from Queenscliff to the Williamstown light-
ship has been correctly logged, Mr. Fergie need
have little fear of lowering not only the colours
of the Janet or Tanlwha, but any yacht that has
yet raced inside Port Jackson. Her late owner,
Judge Bundey, in taking his last good-bye of his
favourite, informed her new owner, in the pre-
sence of several yachting gentlemen assembled in
her cabin, that she had logged 11 knots without
beiDg preesed. Such a performance, I have no
MAYOR YOUNG’S FANCY DRESS BALL.
PAINFUL SCENE AT REFRESHMENT TABLE.
Rather awkward for Sir Reginald De Sigismund (date uncertain) who cannot, for the
life of him get his visor up, having forgottsn how it works.
hesitation in saying, is beyond the powers of the
Janet to equal, even under more favourable con-
ditions than those mentioned bv the late owner of
the South Australian yaoht. Yet to look at the
Wanderer as she sits on the water, from a modern
racing point of view, I am quite at a loss to ac-
count for her record of speed. She certainly has
a tolerably fine but powerful entrance, her
shoulders not coming too soon for a fair turn of
speed with a free sheet, but that she Is a wind-
eater of the first water 1 fall to see from the look
of her afloat, and her published dimensions and
ballast plan do not assist us in accounting for her
recorded performances. It will somewhat stagger
our Sydney yachting friends to be informed that
the Wanderer, instead of rounding home some-
what from the load line amidships, like all modern
deep cutters, actually flares out like a clinch-built
centreboarder, and with projecting ohaln-plate3
more after the style of a coasting scaoonar than a
yacht Her stem, instead of being perpendicular
Irom the load line to the stem-head, curves
slightly home.”
* * *
Mathews, brother of Mathews the boxer,
who recently be it all ths New Z *a’anders, on May
27 had a desperate wrestling-match with Andre
Oaristol, at San Francisco. Christol won, and at
the termination of the contest both men were
covered with gore and looked more like fighters
than wrestlers.
sea
A wrfstling-match for £25 a side and the
championship of New Zealand, between Hudson,
the present champion, and Roach, of Wellington,
took place at Wellington on 11th July. The former
conceded the latter one throw; the match to be
the best three out of fiye throws. Hudson secured
three falls, and won.
• * *
Fred. Archer is playing second fiddle to
Wood on the E lgiish turf this season. During the
period from March 22 to Jun« 5 Wood headed the
list with 45 victories out of 141 mounts; then came
Archer 4i out of 167; G. B.rrett, 38 out of 214;
Cannon, 27 out of 84; Watts, 27 out of 141; F.
Barrett, 21 out of 17i; and A. White, 16 out of 98.
* * *
Racy item: The Crawford-Dilke divorce-
suit. [Racy, perhaps, but scarcely a sporting item.
—Ed. a.]
Seoond test-match between Australia and
England:—All England, Ist Innings, 353. Austra-
lians, Ist innings, 131; 2nd innings, 1-6. Comment
is needless.
* *
There is probably no truth in the rumour
that the Melbourne Cricket Club have decided to
refuse Shaw's team their ground. However,
should suoh be the case, Melbourne is not like
Sydney, tnd the team will have no difficulty ia
securing another ground. The M C.C. quarrelled
with the first Australian Eleven, who very soon
found accommodation on the East Melbourne
Ground.
* * *
W. G. Graoe wanted £l5OO to visit Aus-
tralia. The Melbourne Club’s former experience
of “ W.G.’s” wine bill may have had something to
do with their refusal of his offer.
* * *
The first of the intercolonial football
matohes under Rugby rules between N.S.W. and
Sueensland was played on Sydney Association
round last Saturday, wtaeH some 6000 spectators
put In an lappearanoe, in tbe face of a wet and
cheerless afternoon. The game was evenly con-
tested throughout, and eventuated in a win for
Queensland by four points to two, a result which
made their curly skipper as jolly as a sandboy.
The dribbling of the Queensland forwards was ad-
mirable, and was well supported by the play of
the backs, whioh was so good that, although the
home team were defeated, they were not by any
means disgraoed. Some alterit'ons are to be made
in tbe Sydney team for next Saturday, and, if the
best available men are picked, N.S.W. should just
about win.
* * *
Word has been received from Englan '
that the very best of feeling does not exist
amongst the members of the Australian Eleven.
It Is reported that George Giffen has been assum-
ing the olfioe of dictator-general to the Eleven.
4 * *
An advertising tradesman in Viotoria has
offered to give a 50 guinea cup to the ViotOTian
Football Association for competition amongst the
clubs next season, but that body have ourtly in-
formed this individual that sufficient interest is
now taken [in the game without extraneous aid.
The Southern Rugby Union should follow the
example of their Yiotorian brethren, and return
that gigantic advertisement—the Gardiner Cup—
to the donor.
♦ * *
Whilst the votaries of football in N.S.W.
are so divided in opinion as to whioh style of foot-
ball is the best, the game itself stands very little
show of llouriehiog in the land of the cornstalk.
In our opinion it would be a wise thing to have a
conference of the different unions and associations
throughout Australasia and deoide upon a set of
rules that would be purely colonial.
* * *
It it considered that the Sydney Club are
acting in a very bad spirit in not condescending to
arrange a return match'with the Wallsend Club on
the ground of the latter. The excuse of the
former that they will not receive fair play at
Wallsend is very thin.
* * *
The demon bowler denies the truth of the
rumour that was so extensively circulated out
here to the eifect that he (Spofforth) had backed
himself to bag 100 more wickets than “ red” Evans
during the tour of the Australian Eleven.
*• * *
It is cabled that the colonial sculler, Kemp,
was beaten easily on Saturday by English sculler,
Bubear. Another cable tells us that Beach has
been matohed to row Jacob Gaudaur, the Ameri-
can sculler, for £5OO aside, on tne Thames, on
September 18, but we shall not be surprised to
hear, before this appears ia print, teat no such
match has been ratified. Gaudaur is stated
by the latest Yankee files to be a much im-
proved and now first-class man, with any
number ©f dollars at his baok. Beach has
been hard at work on the river taking off a
portion of the two-stone of superfluous 11 sh
which he carried round the music-halls with him,
and the Engl Bh people seem to doubt the efficacy
of bis training in the item of taking a heavy row
in sweaters End a “header” as soon as he
comes in. This sort of thing may do in Bunny
Australia, they say, but they doubt it’s having a
beneficial effect in the land of fogs and bronchitis
-and they may not be far wrong. Beaoh is work-
ing in a strange atmosphere and on strange water;
and it is to be hoped he will not be led away by
over-confidence. In the second race, Hanlm had no
confidence at all, and looked a beaten man before
he put a scull in the water.
iJIHEir SHOULDN'T DC* iTi
The ease with which the guard of a tramcar can
B ling his manly form from the street on to the
moving car just as the tail end of it is about to
disappear into the infinite, invariably excites the
warmest feelings of admiration in some of the
gazers, whose hard lot it is to stand at a street
corner and wait till their own funeral prooes-
sion comes along. Elderly gentlemen especially
are frequently fired with a notion they can do the
same thing. Sometimes they do, and sometimes
they don’t. A stout old party tried the experi-
mant on one of the trams this morning, and just
as he was in the act of catching the fleetlDg guard
iron, he missed itl The spectacle was one well
calculated to impress the mind of a scoffer with a
sense of his own worth. The passing moments
were filled with a kaleidoscopic review of alter-
nate ends of a fat maD, an empty black bag, and
the luncheon and baby’s feeding bottle it had once
contained, A crowd gathered and fulfilled its
mission by staring open-mouthed at the victim of
an acrobatic ambition, clawing at the wooden
blocks, and rapidly getting off a variety of familiar
quotations not to be found among the nursery
rhymes of the present day. With the aid of an
intelligent constable who had hurried up to see
what he at first thought was a dog fight, the old
gentleman reaohed the nearest chemists. An all-
over application of St. Jacobs Oil speedily relieved
him of all pain, and in the course of half an hour
he was as good as new in all respects, save for the
rivulet of profanity which trickled from him as
he hailed a passing hansom and moved off to busi-
ness.
:P‘
Tr
RTcHTACAM
'• fJIHE WONDERFUL
WATERBURY.”
Provokes the admiration of all who wear it.
Read this:—
A PO3TMASTER’S TE3TIMONY.
To Messrs. M‘Gregor, Harris, and Co.,
Sydney.
Gentlemen,—l beg to state that the watches are
giving the greatest satisfaction here. They are all
that you represent them, and most accurate time-
keepers.
JAMES T. GIBLETT,
Hartley Vale.
ARHE WATERBURY WATCH has derived its
_l_ name of
“THE WONDERFUL WATERBURY”
from the myriads of grateful purchasers who have
satisfied themselves that it is fully up to the stand-
ard claimed by the makers, it is a
STRONG,
HANDSOME,
SERVICEABLE,
WELL-FINISHED
WATCH, and a far more reliable timekeeper than
half of the jevellei-all-over-patent-halfoock-go-
as-you-please-back - action-hair - trigger Chrono-
graphs of the day. Genuine testimonials to its
worth can be shown by the hundred, and the
Watches can be bought for 13s. 6d. from all store-
keepers and dealers throughout the colony.
WATtfRBURY WATCH CO.,
51 Margaret-street, Sydney.
HB CIVIL SERVANT AND THE SERVANT
GAL I
Some few days ago a bright cheerful-looking
woman, attractive all over with the trifling ex-
ception of her feet, which were about six sizes too
large, knocked at the door of a suburban villa,
and speedily found herself face to face with a dis-
tinguished-looking buccaneer in lovely whiskers,
smoking-crp, and a pair of embroidered braces
hanging in festoons from his waist. Interrupted
in the act of chopping the family firewood, he
carried the axe in his hand, and the lady may per-
haps be forgiven for mistaking one of the bright,
est ornaments of the Sydney Civil Service for an
employee of the establishment:—
A long conversation ensued, during which it
transpired that she was an applicant for a situa-
tion in reply to an advertisement in the daily
paper. Number of children? None. Washing
putout? Ves. Latedinner? Yes. Gas stove?
No; no gas in the houoe yet. Who trims the
lamps ? Mrs —. What kayrosane did tney be
usin’? Snowflake, of course. Was that good for
lighting the fire in the morning? “Don’t know,-
we haven’t tried it yet; always use FFF gun-
powder here; we think it safer.” “Thin I’ll be
wishin’you good morain’, young man; the place'
wouldn't suit mo.” And her No. 18 boots started
the spring violets up by the roots as she went
down the gravel path. This is a solid fact. The!
railway stationmaster can verify it.
The Wonderful Snowflake Kerotere, the safest*
purest and best oil for all purpose*, can
be obtained from any of the following
wholesale or retail merchants : Messrs.
M'Gregor, Harris, and Co., George Griffith and Co,
T. Yf. Bady ani Son, D. Cohen and Co.. Potts and
Paul, Holaswerth a'id Co., F. uutcher, Holds worth,
Macpherson, Co.. Walker, Lemon and Co., M Lean*
Bros, axd Rigg. E. Klrchner and Co., and Mason
Bros, Limited.


&
mah
S farourite bm«
4«h»; £• brewh^! d T 1 ** great care from tne
*&aAMue9Ke&£
**' BUBH Io BLxs‘ 10100 “ PAKI
b«ve Opened a
®®AROH DIPOT
llo ‘ 83 Royal Arcade,
Ityw . Where they eupply
’ p.,+*
Coffee, Cocoa, fto., wltt
u *“t refreshment*.
b^^(StJ oh,o,d ® r " m ay be
left tot delivery
,! h «y
Sih,"•"wJ'SfciJS* °™ th ® Agency foi
Plaints “* Wy reoommend ed in pnlmo-
and he Co.,
* ♦♦
Limited,
SI Harbour-atreet
Liyerpool-atreet.
Mlttagong.
df
PEMELL'S
THK best wheat
Pr®«*«^ e ' , s? Bt *s* mo>t approred
9 u VHR v* T ”J ,aChln * rjr -
* Y 1* QU*» f^ Y 1,0 W» *** the QUALITY
Ic Tob?^ tbbd ™y GOOD.
•nVJL » «*»».
Sydney.
f\ ''■4
and Od.’s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap.
JOHNMNKS,
STREET, SYDNEY.
Ay SHOE CHALEOS. GOOCEOS CCJ
MEDALS.
HAUTHAWAY’S
CLI) HELUCLE
Peerless
Gloss.
A necessity in every
family. It blacks a:i
polishes Ladies’ a:i
Children’s Boots,
Shoes, Rubbers and
Satchels, without
brushing. Always
gives satisfaction. 4
>u> nil:, 's concetod ta ta
STAMDAfiD."
1 * con 1 A W/y Y & cor;s
Street* BosWjfc
U.S.A.
G Cr C o GHATTERSI
- KG E STREET
m
N
I st shapes.
X>i^ LLA CE,
<u h e * 4o» i* orlptlon<Jf
aflrf
**»«
‘*WSV
MMlTrt fey
t» *rnwfei
Th following goods
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones' Com Paint* Is.
Asiatic Liniment, Bs.
That Modern Appetiser—The Australian Relish—ls
A. Soyer’s Bakina Powder (free from alum), 6d.
Page’s Custard Powder, 4 in box, Is.—makes two
quarts fine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Llnotus, for ooughs, Is.
Clayton’s Nervine, for toothache and cold in the
gums, Is.
Dr. Barbarossa’s Cantharides and Russian Bear’s
Grease Oil, for covering bald patches and pro-
ducing whiskers, 2a. Bd.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. 80UL & CO.,
177, 268 and 266 PITT STREET.
RSMINGTON
TYPE-WRITER.
TPIHB
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY, EASE,
CONVENIENCE, ECONOMY,
tap - THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER saves
labour, stationery, and time, writing muob
faster than expert penmen, and condensing matter
to less than one-half the space occupied by pen
writing* Beautiful oopies may be taken in the
usual manner in the letter-press. Merchants,
bankers, solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors,
reporters, and all men or business should use the
type-writer, and save much valuable time.
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY and CO-
-410 Kent-street.
i'he Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1899.
BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT.UTS
Paid-up Capital. ........ 8300,00*
Reserve fund 1155,000
DtUOTOBS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.O.M.G- Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
Ann irons:
Jas. Soroggle, Esq. I H. B. Cohen. Esq.
djunmjk.ii
r. a. iu
Baownr.
Hector ,
i>Tt
Braxohjm nr N«w Sooth Waum :
aymarkei Pyrmqnt, Red fern, Gqeford, Rrnm
Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonards, ana
Newcastle.
BRANCH IS QUBUTSLAim .*
Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Lead en ball -street.
Dibuotors >
dward Chapman, Baq. I Geo. P. made, Bsq.
ir Saul Sanmel.K.C.M.G I Goo. H. Alexander, laq.
Managbr : Geo. H. Alexander, laq.
Lon>or Baituhi:
The National Provincial Bank of Borland
Phis bank transacts all usual Banking and Pinan
al Agency Business on the most favourable terms
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo.
<1 other produoe shipped to Borlandlev sale.
lo Weak, Nervous Invalids, and Others Seekir±
Health, Strength, and Energy.
DR. RICHARDS,
M.A. Oxon,
M.R.C.S., Eng.
DESIRES to inform sufferers of both sexes that hr
has permanently established himself in Sydney,
and may in future he consulted at his rooms, No.
Spring Street, FREE OF CHARGE by sufferers of
both sexes from Nervous and Physical Debility, Ex
hausted Vitality, Premature Decay, Pains in the Pack.
Head or Chest, Sic., Sic.
Z Ouro ovorj case unlortakon.
When I say I Cure, I do not mean merely stop then
for a time and then have them return again ; I meai
a radical cure, I have made nervous and private dis
eases a life-long study, and can safely warrant a curt
in every case undertaken after a personal consultation
Many persons, from the effects of youthful impru
dence, have brought about a state of weakness that has
reduced the general system so much as to induce al-
most every other disease, and the real cause of this
disease scarcely ever being suspected, they have been
doctored for everything but the right one. Notwith-
standing the many valuable remedies that medical sci-
ence has produced for the relief of this class of patient,
none of the ordinary modes of treatment effect a cure.
During my extensive hospital and private practice in
England, I have discovered new and concentrated re-
medies, and with the use of my extensive Galvanic
Appliances I am in a position to guarantee a cure in
every case undertaken,
Consultation costs nothing, and I will tell you at
once whether your case is curable or not.
DR. RICHARDS, M.R.C.S., ENG..
HO. 7 SPRING ST., (off Pitt-street north,)
SYDNEY.
Try POGONOWSKI
FOR
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS
The Largest Assortment in the Colonio
705 GEORGE STREET.
Send for Price List.
DB. BOYD,
POMEBOY CHAMBERS, 39 CABTLBREAGH-ST
(Upstairs),
GBADUATI IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
Registered Physioian of New south Wales.
Office Hours:
10 ajn. to 4 p.m. only,
Daformltlos. Nervous, and Female Diseases
Specialty.
Box l» G.P.O.
gd
BBUTER’S LIFE SYRUP, No. 8.
A positive and radical cure for
every form of Scrofula, Syphilis
Scrofulous Sores, Affections of the
Skin and Scalp with loss of Hair
and all diseases of the Blood, Liver
and Kidneys. GUARANTEED to
purify, enrich, and vitalize the Blood
and restore and renovate the entire
system.
REUTER’S HEALING SOAP,
For the Bath, Toilet, Nursery an
the healing' of skin diseases of
every kind and at every stage.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
S. Hoffnung & Co.
ARTIFICIALTEETH
PLETE S FT
MARSHALL BRO?
DENTISTS
133 ELI Z ABETH ST
■ - - ... ..
-r C'
O
Vts
«o*/
■i«v
*>\ $ -
<b
O
PARRY&Gs
NEW EXTRACT
SOAP
ses
fgdfgd
THE MARSOAPIAL VIEW OF HIM /
Y&SJt
>
*vv
O j
////-
Messrs. S. HO
G & CO., Agents.
G. B. HODIHI, Biinmaker,
BEGS to announce to his patrons and the public
that he has received, by late arrivals, one of
the largest and best selections of
FIREARMS
seen in Sydney. The latest improvements'ln
Breach and Muzzle-loading Guns, Rifles, Revolvers,
&c. Agent for the following celebrated London
Manufacturers : T. Purdy and Sons, John Rigby
S. nd £.o, Joseph Lang and Son. Chas. Osborne and
Co., T. Bland and Bon ; also, Bussey and Co., who
manufacture all kinds of Sportsmen’s Require-
ments for the field. A large assortment of other
celebrated makers’ stock on hand from Webey,
Riley, Scott, &c, and the best Continental and
American makers. A choioe and complete stock
of Cutlery. Field and Marine Glasses, and Sports-
men’s Supplies in general. Repairs promptly
executed by skillful workmen, and all goods will
be faithfully guaranteed at
602 George-st., Brickfield H1I», Sydney.
Inspection Invited. Price List on application
Prepared from Pure Drugs and Chemicals by
qualified Chemists in the most scientific manner
to ensure the best action,
FOR NOTHING*
is more essential to enable doctors to make quick
cures, therefore we only employ qualified assist-
ants with diploma > in our establishments, and
supply everything of the best quality at
the lowest prices.
T. JONES & CO..
DISPENSING CHEMISTS,
63 Market bt., between Pitt and George streets.
Branch Houses:—Crown-street Tram Terminus,
Surry Hills; and Suva, Fiji.
Anything you Require from Sydney
FORWARDED at
COST PRICE.
RO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, forwarded free of all
charges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
Mn T. Mints & Ct.,
BO PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.B.W.
A Clergyman having tried every known remed?
for the CURE of NERVOUS EXHAUSTION
PREMATURE DECAY &.C., has at last dis-
covered a simple SELF-CURE, which, for the sake
of suffering hnmanity, he will send FREE the Pre-
scription which CURED him. Address with self-
addressed envelope- QR, A. CLARKE,
Box 292, G. P. 0., Sydney.
DU. THOMAS, of 203 Elizabeth-street, be-
tween Park and Bathurst Streets, has
passed the Royal College of Surgeons of England,
and is the Only medical man advertising in Aus-
tralia who has passed the Royal College of
Physicians ok England.
Consult him for the best and safest treatment
on nervous debility, skin, contagious, and blood
diseases.
gg E Ay. SBEE *3g3j gZSgg
The
QU v^-^CUREroR
! ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
PREPARED onu BY rX-
* H S. M AS iNGHAM/f
l iC7 R.O, C KHAM PTON. *->
a::!: 1
' \v'
m
mm
mvi
m
■,
m.
"
f-:
■M
DR. O COITITELL,
52 Castlereagh Sircaf,
SYDNEY, UST.S-W.
A REGULAR GRADUATE in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S.W., whose'
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all private cases, chronic,
nervous, skin and special diseases,
DR. O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or by post, free and invited. A friertdl'y
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent by post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed ; where doubt
exists, it is f aukly stated, Especial attention to
Severe and Long-st anding Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence,
producing some of the following effects Ne-
rvousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples on the Pace, Aversion to Soeioty
of Females, Want of Pleasure iti Life. Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Headache. Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Pains in the Back, Stunted Development, &c., are
treated with unparalleled success. Cures per-
rnanont, safe, and private. Symptom list fivo, and medicines sent by post.
Skin Diseases, Itchinp, Burning;, Scaly Pimples, Bio
of ev\*ry kind,, from whatever cause, promptly cured.
Blotches and Eruptions
this
remedies oi an uses nni countries are used. Un account of the groat number of casos apply
charges are kept low-often lower than is demanded by othors. If you secure the skill, and get a
speedy p~ ' perfect life cure, that is the important matter. Book, iO pages, sent free. Call on or
DOCTOR J. O CONNELL, 1
52 CastlorcajfU Street (ckounp fioor), Sydney,


THOS.
WA TCH MAKER, JEWELLER, and OPTIC!AH,
, SIT? ***
i4 B9 firagr- } 339 AND 341 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. \ nbai ®t o @^
Manufacturer off Turret Clocks, Prize Caps, Optical and Surveying instruments, Sc.
Gaunt’s Special Silver Hunting English Lever Watch, strong dust-proof cases, warranted a most correct and B
timekeeper. Post free on receipt of P. 0.0. for 6 guineas. A select stock of Gold’and Diamond Jewellery.
PRICE LISTS FREE ON APPLICATION.
ALLAGHAN,
Caterer and Confectioner,
664 GEORGE STREET.
■T WBDDINGS, BALLS, PICNICS, AND PARTIBB A SPECIALITY.
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTION*^
■ "
tr LUNCHEON AFB BEFRESaMJNT FOOMB FOB LAPIBB AWPfl^^
RTS
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
COG
S. FEY & SON’S, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter. Lakcm.
MASON BROTHERS
EXKI
%
limited,
263 to 269 Kent Street,
Sydney,
Kaye always In STOCK, for 3AL3
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
BALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
General hardware,
GLASS, CHINA.
Arm
I4BTHINWI K SLf
WINES, BEERS, JDTD SPIRITS
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SON
Old Highland Whisky*
J. BORIN and 00,’S
Cognac.
J, T. OATEN’S
Schnapps and Genera.
A. MELVINand SONS*
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
UNDER THE PATRONAGE OF HIB EXCEL-
LENCY LORD CARRINGTON,
SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
JUST ARRIVED, ex “ Massillia,” 13 Cases of
the
Finssf Egyptian Sigareftes,
specially selected by Mr. Noake on his tour to
Europe, and being: a thorough connoisseur in
Cigarettes, he recommends them to his patrons as
being of the finest quality made.
Also, a large shipment of the world-renowned
“ Spiller's,”
whose reputation is universally known by the
smokers of the first quality of cigarettes.
TO BE HAD ONLY AT
J. NOME'S ESTABLISHMENTS
320 and 446 George-st.,
AND
Pall Mall, Hunter-street.
i?
u
09
©
- J
/OS?
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguish Wilson’s Ame-
rican “ Extra Toast ” BISCUITS. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delioious with
milk, superb with wine, and incomparible
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER * 00.,
Sole Agents,
74 Strssx*: Stbim, Stdwst.
BUDGEREE! BUDG
JERB® !
Trade
/
E Sh
Mar&-
NO MORE FEVER- killer s<?
The BUDGEREE DISINFECTANT is the* Q**fc*&* j
destrover known. No household should be without it, as it ins henJ ists> . «
destroyer from olosetei bad dra ins, &0 . Bo id at all p\{VW
Depot s JAS. 0« STEEL, f p
p
<3*?
J , , _ gB QtJB
MUSIC SELLERS BT SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HEB MAJ ’ tST '’ ?- «(,(
281 6EOR6E STREET, SYDNEY, H'®'
Alan, at London, Maybncs, Paris, and Brdssbds*
W LA SOB T STOCK IS IBS COLO® 1
■
3T
SBLEi 800 &LD.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD biJEIML,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
mHS sparMlng, healthful, refreshing, and thirt t-
JL quenching properties of this worid-renowni $
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messr i
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given a t
the Calcutta Exhibition, Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULLDOG
ALL, which is to be obtained of all the leading
hUstSn. *®
WALLACH BROS.’
JTEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYHYARD SQUARE,
AKD
-60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
I Melbourne and
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACE! BROTHERS
Afiso oEFone Moustache ana Whiskers. etFons
■Copyrighted.
Jtayrl’n BCard Elixir did this,
and. will do it on cither bahl
Jiead or bare face- Forces
h&avy Moustache in from 2to
4 mode* and n ever fails, 20,1)00
yabr.iig men already wear full
CojtJjHohleiL.
tbeards, having used 1 to 3 (pkls. No injury, easily applied, certain
Kn'Cffcct. rackets, Is. o<f. e«c&,3 for 3«, Cd. f postpaid, sent under
•caver, free from ohs-nra tion., Address, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent,
MmTM. O r. 0., Sydney, N S. W.
COOLALTA WINES,
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX,
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 Gteorge-street
(Beneath Palinjr’i.)
m
V
f ne rfeC^ oll
THE highest point of P ei ,
facture of , re
*;'s
having been reached by gtcJ jie r ® -j; se
prepared to supply our tJjO
made of any material, eu A*
principle, „ rrF eCT F /
GBABANTEEWOPB „<
and as wo use materials of* ftls o 0 e ° 4
durability and good ya | fi|W
A. A. OEIISt >
13 HUNTER Bi
B TDN® y ' ,<Bl*3^
affnnufactory
jri REAT EASTERN ccu; .
DT are prepared . t ° it h,o» t * l NV ,
hoy may be favoured
3rms. -risjt)lA l V ri *
consisting oi rr an UD ao d
all the well-known » KleS ({l
tins and bottlos , l j llV E 9 '
Preserves, > . g e<l
Curry ana Mulng* l
Duck, &o. vje » a
Letters and orders * >
anager,
31 and 33
H trNT Etl
LATK ROWLANDS A LEW 18,
KSaanfactorer of oil 1
31
' ti
¥lOO
of Mrafod lafersp Cordials, and Blttors, and Proprietor of
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
m‘Onfy Go fa Medal for /Erated and Mineral Wafers; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueur.
