

The Bulletin


ASK FOR COLONIAL-MADE
Wi
RE
PROOI
aOE
w,
PROOF
Netting!
BRAND.
Cheaper than Imported.
manufactured by
JOHN LYSAGHT, Limtd.,
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SYDNEY.
McLEAN BEOS., RIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, £ SYDNEY. '
SPECIALITIES:
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
GAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S Jfl
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &c., &C.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 and 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
FLEMING’S
RELIABLE
BUGGIES
FIRST GRADE
STYLE,
QUALITY,
and
FINISH.
Used by Aa the
leading Citizen*.
NOT HOW CHEAP,
BUT HOW GOOD!
V i \
FLEMING’S
WAGGONS
AND
Harness,
Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purpases.
w?u
Call an» Inspect
Hardman Bros
m
iHmiinriiniiiiiiiirn)ilMHiimniinnil
ANUFACTURERSj
head Office & factory Newtown
/ GoldenSyrvp
■T'Y a/vo /
y trcacif h
f OFF//VERS //
BRANCH, CEORCE S?, SYDNEY
J. M. ELLERCAMP,
GLOVER, HOSIER, AND MEN’S MERCER,
AND IMPORTER OF
Ladies’ English and Foreign Boots and Shoes,
15 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BEST HOUSE H>f THE COLONY FOR SHILLING SCARPS.
•XfifCP
M ‘CARTIIY <fc GO.,
TOBACCO MEBCHAISTTS,
669 Oeorge-street, Haymarket, Sydney.
*BT Depot for all Cameron Bros, and Co.’s renowned Tobaccos.
Importers of Havanna and Manilla Cigars. A large and superior assortment
of Meerschaum, Briar, and Clay Pipes.
Sole agents for the oelebrated Buffalo Tobaccos, Cigars, and Cigarettes.
Manufacturers of Nonpareil Cigarettes. N.B. Trade parcels at Factory Prices.
ALEX.
BORTHWICK
GLASS,
WALLPAPER,
PAINT, &c.
281 George-street, Sydney.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO
(J. A. ROBERTS, R. J. ALCOCK, G. C. CHALMERS, R. G. WATKINS.)
M
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
IRON, HARDWARE, AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS
Importers of ~
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES WOOD-WORKING MACHINES •
RAILWAY and other CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS -
CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDERS’ MATERIALS,
SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES. &c.
m-.
i
MACHINERY^IRON YARD.
imwwwmTOnTiffßim
c asa 1 0 sso a i? k'v’ 0i? k 1 o$ jk' o ijo
. •
< ip o> J
TE, SHEET and HOOP IRON ; GALVANISED, CORRUGATED and
SET and PERFORATED ZINC; TINPLATES; PIG IRON and LEAD; OILS, o)*
LTSHWARE; FENCING WIRE, WOOLPACKS, SHEARING SUPPLIES,
NGERY, ROLLED H GIRDERS; PORTABLE, FIXED, and SEMI FIXED ENGINES, q , lA pIW'
HORIZONTAL BOILERS, STEAM and other PUMPS, LATHES, PLANIM*>
EWING, and DRILLING MACHINES; STEAM HAMMERS; ENGINEERS’ BRASS n
BAR, PLATE
SHEET and PERFORATED
BRUSHWARE
MONGERY
and HORIS
SCREWING
PATENT ROLLED SHAFTING, QUICKSILVER, &c. otß S^a-
Sole Agents for FARMER, ROBEY, and BROWN’S CELEBRATED
ENGINES ; READING IRON WORKS’ AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS and PATEN i r
WM. TAYLOR and CO.’S Celebrated OILS and PAINTS.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & GO*
Head Warehouse •
Iron and Implement Yard*
Bulk Stores- * d
London Office
54 YORK STREET.
. . HAY and ENGINE STREETS. R
. . HARBOUR STREET, DARLING
S XT ID UNTIE NT.
• 85 GRACECHURCH STREET
BO«*
TOBACCO
DIiXSON^SONS
TOBACCO WORKS
SYDNEY.
OIXSON A SONS
CONQUEROR
YANKEE DOOD 1 - 6
SIR ROGE^
I 4 SONS
N AILROD
NASONS Kl
CHAM PlgS*"
OIXSON A SONS A«OMATIC v
CUT .In Tint Picß^ 5
R.C.R U BY. ORIENTAL V
CIGARETTE GOLD LEAF * CA
SIX SON A SONS
YANK
OIXSON A SONS
SIR
QIXSQN A SONS
NA
OIXSON & SONS
lf?
0»
gr
\
&
*5
\
G
Tft amway LA* e
sa*
too*
THE GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL,
CHARLOTTE-PLACE AND GEOROE-STREBT.
K. HANIEY’S
1 DOZEN CASE
OF
ASSORTED
WINES, SPIRITS, and MALT LIQUORS,
DELIVERBD ANY PART OF CITY FREE.
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer.
Order the ldoz. case as you please from the list of
low prices as under, viz. :
Robertson’s Walker or Royal Blend
from 20s. per gallon.
£3 CASE ALSO A SPECIALITY.
Marks’s Ale, Porter, and Lager Beer.
Certificate of merit of the first-elaes and silver medal
awarded at the Calcutta Exhibition, and patronised by his
*.— Mj e Governor's household, 6d. per bottle. All
>ds. One trial will prove the fact. Bottle De-
the GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL, Comer
and Charlotte-place. Orders by post solicited,
attends personally on lady patrons.
first-elass Goc
partment of
George-street
Mrs. Hanney
<«!£{%
MACHINERY
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE STOCKS
WITH ALu
NEWEST Dg> cWb
’ HIGHEST FINISH
LOWEST COSU
o>» (>
a* 9 ,e
«»' sTI !
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS
ESTIMATED FOB
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET.
22,
KING


The Bulletin
Vol. 7-No. 350.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1880.
Price., 6d.
s °meWrs
x- Of
W/MMi
9 dy y
%J%lf
pi£!»
?•* w
C°P
J,
V
%T'
“Those Honorable Grinners, the Ministry.”— Quotation from Jawbone Neild.


THE BULLETIN.
I’EMJSUED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advanoe.)
Per annum ~ .. .. .. £1 Ob. Od.
Half-yearly .. .. .. .. 0 12s. Od.
Quarterly .. .. .. .. 0 6s. 6d.
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters payable
to
J. 91. lIARDING,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements, and remit-
t luces should bo addressed.
Postage-stamps of any Australian colony accepted for
amounts under
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
correspondence column all contributions submitted —whether
i/i the form of political, social, or other articles, verse, short
tales or sketches, paragraphs, letters, or newspaper-clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly cofidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that wu are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of such
MSS.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
By sending direst to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling in advance—which you may pay by Post Office
o»der, One-pound Note, or stamps of any Australian colony
-you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Now, by special arrangements, we are enabled to make the
following offer, open to all subscribing direct to this office,
between September 1 and December 21,1886.
Anyone sending the cash for six yearly subscriptions, will
entitled to a bonus of twenty shillings. Postmasters and
other agents will understand that we will send £1 to anyone
forwarding us six prepaid yearly subscriptions.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in
the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
fere.
IMPORTANT.
The publisher will oonsider it a favour if any reader
of The Bulletin will forward him the name and
address of any newsdealer who is not selling this paper.
Mr. Norton’s Mission.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1886.
The New South Wales Trades and Labour
Council may be congratulated upon the pro-
nounced success which has attended its first
venture in the way of impressing its views
upon the public of Great Britain and of
European countries in general. In Mr.
Norton it appears to have secured a gentle-
man eminently qualified for the functions to
discharged. The success of that emissary
may reasonably be measured by the degree
of denunciatory vehemence which he has
aroused in capitalistic quarters. Had Mr.
Norton failed to make his arguments reach
beyond the limits of Trades’ meetings and
Labour organisations in England, nothing
at all would have been heard of him. Had
lie, on the other hand, betrayed his trust
and sought merely to use his position to make
matters pleasant for himself by toning down
his utterances to suit the preconceptions
of official coteries and influential circles, he
would have been belarded with commenda-
tion from all “ respectable ” quarters. As
it,is, there is every reason to believe that he
has smitten the Philistines, hip and thigh.
The shrieks of' rage and consternation which
vibrate to Australia along the cable wires
testify to the effect of the pebbles which this
David, who has stood forth on behalf of the
plebs of Australia, has slung at the Goliath
of Capitalism. To be assaulted by the
Times, that organ of Property, and to have
been screeched at by the London correspon-
dent of the Sydney Morning Herald, to be
libelled by Reuter’s agency, and reviled by
the Sydney dailies in general are combined
testimonies that Mr. Norton has, with fair
accuracy and telling effect, voiced the views
of those who commissioned him to speak.
For who can affect to be ignorant of
the fact that the principles of tire
Trades and Labour Council of New
South Wales are such as challenge and
invite the diatribes of each and all of those
c ities ! That Mr. Norton has over-coloured
his picture of N.S.W. as a field for immigra-
tion is possible, and even probable. But,
while we ever prefer the potency of facts un-
adorned, we decline to see in an oratorical
license, so universally employed, any reason
for censuring, or for the Trades’ Council re-
pudiating, Mr. Norton. The advocates of
wholesale immigration have no right to
criticise. They are steeped in, have habitu-
ally been saturated with, the very same weak-
ness. The exaggeration of the inducements
afforded by New South Wales to immigrants
have been constant and prodigious. Sub-
jected to a cold, and more especially to an
unfriendly, criticism, they would have sufficed
to cover their authors with shame and
ridicule.
* * *
New South Wales has at various times,
really presented very great and solid attrac-
tions for immigrants, and if Mr. Norton
had denied that fact, he would have exposed
himself to just animadversion. But when he
is attacked for statements to the effect that
at present the land of the colony is in few
hands, that employment is hard to get, and
that poverty presses upon the working
class, it is not Mr. Norton who is liable to
the imputation of bad faith and libelling the
colony. It is those who traverse his allega-
tions that are chargeable with deception. It
is notorious that never during the past 20
years have affairs been so bad in New South
Wales. Even in the capital, retail trade is
almost paralysed. Dealers in the necessaries
of life—food and clothing—find their trans-
actions restricted, and are embarrassed by
difficulty in procuring payment for the goods
they sell. Traders in non-necessaries find it
difficult to pay their rents and expenses. The
wholesale houses are strained by the neces-
sity of keeping credit afloat for their cus-
tomers whose bills need perpetual renewings.
The banks and other money-broking institu-
tions, already heavily burdened with the
support of pastoral establishments which
have not met their engagements for five
years past, assist the wholesale merchants
with difficulty and reluctance. So severe
has been the stress all round that universal
commercial distrust has barely been averted
by the blessing of a splendid spring and the
luck of a revived wool-market. Even now
there is no talk of making fortunes, or even
of making money. All that is spoken of are
the excellent prospects of meeting engage-
ments, of wiping out liabilities, and of
escaping ruin. Meanwhile, enterprise has
shown no awakening of vitality. In town
and country alike investments are almost
stagnant, and employment is insufficient,
* - * Ye
' Another of Mr. Norton’s allegations is
likewise true in the larger sense, and con-
sidering that every medium of information as
to his utterances, and every commentator in
England and here have been hostile to a point
of malignancy, the public is justified in ac-
cepting with reserve all accounts which are
not endorsed by himself. Mr. Norton is al-
leged to have affirmed in Paris that all the
land of N.S.W. is monopolised by a compara-
tive handful of individuals. This is not textu-
ally true. There are millions of acres of out-
of-the-way land still unappropriated. But
the statement is effectively true in relation
to the look-out for immigrants. New ar-
rivals would find that, so far as they are
concerned, Mr. Norton’s description is ac-
curate. Not only is the bulk of the best
land in the possession of a handful of monopo-
lists, but these have a yet stronger entrench-
ment around the areas which re-
main unseized. They have hedged the
public estate around with land laws, if
not of their own devising, at least mixed
and muddled up by their arts and contri-
vances. So complicated, so preposterously
surrounded with provisoes and amendments
and regulations—so embarrassed by absence
or incompleteness of maps and plans, so
tangled with official delays, and with
machinery calculated to serve the pockets of
so-called land-agents, chiefly members of
Parliament or confederated with members—
are the land laws of the colony, that
for a new arrival or an old colonist
desirous of altering from a town life to a
settler’s industry, it is almost impossible to
find a patch of ground to select.
■X* ~/c -/f
Of the correctness of Mr. Norton’s allega-
tions, made in Paris, with respect to the
attitude of the working men of New South
Wales in respect to the New Hebrides we
will not protend to pronounce judgment.
We may remark, however, that-the unani-
mity of the daily newspapers of Sydney in
an anti-French spasm is not any evidence of
the opinions of the people of New South
Wales, and is especially inapplicable as a test
of the views of the mechanical classes. In
the first place, these papers are, as we
pointed out last week, controlled and con-
ducted by ex-reverend brethren of the mis-
sionary ring which has raised all the current
bother. In the second place, the same jour-
nals so uniformly take the capitalist or bour-
geois side of every question, and have so
lent themselves to reviling Mr. Norton
respecting utterances in which he has ad-
mittedly spoken the sentiments of the
Trades’ and Labour Council, that for them
to pretend to speak on behalf of the latter in
this matter is preposterous assumption.
* * *
It is at least certain that the unanimity of
the dailies does not exist among any class of
New South Wales colonists on this subject.
The strong and unblenching protest of Chief
Justice Martin at the banquet to the de-
parting French Vice-Consul, has scarcely
ceased to ring in the ears of the public.
Scarcely less trenchant were the reported
utterances of the Premier, although that
weak-kneed politician has since, with charac-
teristic feebleness of purpose, sought to
explain away his expressions of decided
opinion. But to bring the special point—
whether or not Mr. Norton was justified in
representing the working classes of New
South Wales as indifferent to the expected
acquisition by France of those far-away
islands—as nearly to an issue as is feasible,
it will suffice to refer to an article published
lately by the Sydney Daily Telegraph,
and purporting to be the result of inquiries
made from the Trades and Labour represen-
tatives here. If the following quotation
correctly conveys the sense of the instruction
given to Mr. Norton, nothing seems clearer
than that he spoke with ample authority
“ The New Hebrides question was only a
secondary matter, and a great deal was left to
Mr. Norton’s discretion, but he was to speak in
opposition to Great Britain interfering or taking
any action in the matter at all.”
This is exactly how Mr. Norton did speak
in Paris. Yet for thus speaking he has been
abused by the Sydney Press as a perverter
of his instructions and a traitor—in common
with the Premier and the Chief Justice of
the colony—to the national cause.
* * *
We rejoice to see, on reference to a
report of its proceedings on Thursday
lastj that the Trades and Labour j
Council is not to be bullied or cajoled
into playing the game of its enemies
by repudiating its very capable and success-
ful emissary. When allowance is made for
the perverted mediums through which in-
telligence as to Mr. Norton’s proceedings,
utterances and position reach the colonial
public, there is no indication that the Am-
bassador of Labour has done otherwise than
discharge his functions with zeal, activity,
and also with remarkable effect. Moreover,
his mission strikes us as being alike timely and
valuable. Nothing more cruel and injurious
could be done at the present epoch than to
induce people to emigrate to New South
Wales in expectation of immediate and re-
munerative employment. It would be un-
fair even to neglect to warn intending
emigrants that the allurements which might
have been true a couple of years ago are true no
longer for awhile. We are now entering the
busiest season of the year. Lambing is
about to commence, shearing and the harvest
will keep things going. Railway contractors
have been offered special inducements by the
Government to augment the number of their
labourers, in order to ease the pressure of
the surcharged labour market. Yet, despite
these favourable circumstances, the ranks of
the unemployed continue to swell into for-
midable cohorts. As a consequence in part
of the extra speed due to the additional
hands employed, at least four important
railway contracts will have come to a termi-
nation about the same time as the stations
and farms will have completed their harvests
of wool and grain. Unless fresh works be
ready for the absorption of labour there
must then ensue a climax of disoeuvrement
never paralleled in Australia since, in 1866,
the navvies, thrown out of employment by
suspension of payments in Queensland,
marched on Brisbane, and threatened to
tear down Government House and loot the
banks. Again we repeat that Mr. Norton,
with his plain truths or his embellished
truths, is doing useful work in combatting
the official rosewater fictions of the Agent-
General. New South Wales is passing
through hard times, and for the moment can
neither find occupation for emigrants nor
funds for a New Hebridean war. We shall
yet need millions of souls added to our
population, and their advent will be fraught
with equal advantage to themselves and to
existing colonists. But we do not need them
at this particular crisis, and their appearance
inopportunely upon the scene would be for
the present as disastrous to themselves as
embarrassing to us. ■
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Suicide.
When the famous Bumble declared that “ The
law is a Hass,” he uttered a solemn truth that is
every day becoming more manifest. The law in
general is an ass, and Aijglo-Saxon law in par-
ticular ranks as the most patched, dilapidated,
moth-eaten, and incomprehensible specimen of it.
In Australiaa day seldom passes withoutfurnishing
some new proof of this great fact, and perhaps
the punishments awarded to would-be suicides
rank as the most remarkable examples of that
codified stupidity under which this country is
governed. In the majority of cases the man who
attempts self-destruction does so because he is
weary of life ; here and there perhaps some philo-
sopher may blow out his alleged brains because he
is in haste to fathom the mystery of the great
hereafter, but men of this description are very
scarce, and deducting a small proportion of actual
lunatics, the army of suicides is almost exclusively
recruited from among the great class of human
failures. Perhaps one-half of these despondent
wretches accomplish their purpose ; the remainder
either falter at the critical moment or are “ resur-
rected ” with the stomach-pump, or otherwise
rescued when almost within sight of eternity, and
then the stupendous ass which Mr. Bumble
acknowledged as his master undertakes to show
them the evil of their ways. A month with hard
labour is about the average sentence on the
would-be suicide; “temporary insanity” and a
6x2 deal coffin are the lot of the man who carries
out his purpose, but “insanity” is seldom allowed
for when a live man instead of a corpse is in ques-
tion. When a miserable human wreck attempts to
get rid of his life because he no longer finds it serve
any useful purpose, either to himself or others, it
is generally understood that four weeks in a prison
cell will lead him to take a more cheerful view of
this vale of tears, and will effectually deter him
from repeating his attempt. But unless the first
experiment has made him resolve on living a little
longer he can carry out his purpose in a prison al-
most as easily as anywhere else, and an individual
who is ready to take a leap in the dark, and defy
all the shadowy terrors of perdition, can hardly
care enough for earthly things to be daunted by a
few days’ confinement within the gaol walls. Re-
garded as a deterrent, the present system is the
vilest of absurdities ; regarded as a punishment, it
is even worse. Suicide, if it be a crime at all, is
only murder under another name. If it is to be
punished it can only be as murder, for there is no
other category under which it can be ranked, and
the madman who regards a brief term of confine-
ment as sufficient penalty for such an offence is
himself unfit to be at large. Either the principle
should be affirmed that suicide is no crime—that a
man has a right to deal with his life as freely as
with any other property, or the law should declare
that his own life is as sacred at his hands as that
of a stranger ; and of the two alternatives the
former is the only one which modern civilisation
can tolerate. Within the last few days a case has
occurred in Sydney which ought, in itself, to be
the death-blow of the present disgraceful
system. A girl who had been suffer-
ing from intense mental depression was
charged with attempted self-destruction, and
pleaded in defence that she was utterly uncon-
scious of the offence, but, though she manifested
distinct symptoms of mental disease, she was
nevertheless committed for trial. In other words,
she must drag through weary days and weeks in
confinement until the assizes, and probably un-
dergo a term of imprisonment in addition, on
account of an alleged crime, committed while in
an irresponsible condition, and which injured no
one but herself, while a brutal ruffian who wilfully
assails and maltreats a fellow-man may fie sum-
tnarily dealt with and will probably find himself
again at liberty while she is awaiting her sentence
Such a case as that of Ellen Heare is one of
disease, not of crime, but she is made the victim
of the barbarous laws of Australia and the fossil
ised stupidity and prejudice which set the law in
motion. The ci'iminal code which consigns a man
or woman to a criminal prison on such a charge is a
monument to the stupendous folly which governs
this nation, and is a perpetual disgrace to the sc-
called humanity of the Australian people,
Let Us Kill Somebody.
The N.S.W. colonist who is thirsting for war and
blood appears invariably to take refuge in the
correspondence column of the Sydney D.T. That
journal has at length come to be recognised as the
organ of cannon and gore and scattered brains •
directly or indirectly its eagle eye is always fixed
on slaughter; and it suffers from a chronic de-
lusion that though “ we don’t want to fight, yet
by Jingo if we do ” there will he trouble among
the Great Powers of Europe. The letter, signed
“Herbert Fairfax,” which appeared in its
columns one day last week, is a fair sample of the
military mania which has taken possession of
N.S.W. ever since the Contingent so successfully
kept out of the way of the Soudanese patriots.
The writer wishes to* protest against the reduc-
tion of £70,000 in the war vote—the best £7O 000
ever saved in N.S.W.—on the ground that strife
is imminent, and that Australia must be prepared
for battle. It matters nothing that even when this
£70,000 was on the estimates, the colonial forces—
with the exception of the Naval Brigade—were
just a trifle less serviceable than the bob-tail of a
Turkish army, and only a little better than that
artillery force armed with cocoa-nuts which,
according to Mark Twain, once mustered
in Pitcairn ; it matters nothing that tho
grand N.S.W. cavalry force consists chiefly of
bank clerks who can’t ride, and the pet infantry
regiment of swells with tight boots who can’t
walk ; and no reference is made to the fact that it
would be hardly possible to trundle a wheelbarrow
on a Sydney pavement without capsizing a highly-
paid colonel, and yet that half the city might be
blown up without the shattered remains of one
private being found among the ruins. “The
ominous sounds that hover around us,” according
to Mr. Fairfax, are admitted by Sir Henry
Parkes to warn us of danger—these things
always are admitted by the men who want to get
into power, and form a recognised part of the
great political job by which New South Wales is
governed ; and, therefore, it is necessary to keep
up a force which is hardly even sufficiently trained
to run away, and to put forward some reckless
bald-head to challenge any fighting nation he can
find with an army of 3,000,000 strong, and tell
them to come on and have a scrimmage. But
neither Britain nor Australia has any real quarrel
on hand, and our great war scare is the hollowest
of shams. Mr. Fairfax’s call for Cromwell”—
and his “ Ironsides,” too, is rather inappro-
priate at this juncture, as there is no scope
for a beheading religious fanatic in these
colonies at present ; he comes a little
nearer the mark, however, when he desires
to be “girt around with patriots,” for just
now he is only girt with Lancers, which is a very
different thing. The only force in N.S.W. which
is worth paying for is the Naval Brigade, and
few more well-drilled and workmanlike corps of an
equally serviceable character would be a valuable
addition to the defences. But as for our gaudy
cavalry, they should be either swopt, away entirely
or replaced by some force like that of tho South
American General Bolivar, who regarded a gun,
spear, and lasso, with a blanket for uniform, as
the proper outfit of a good s tidier. But Mr.
Fairfax is no Bolivar, a fact which is sufficiently
shown when he drop 3 into high-falootin’ poetry at
the conclusion of hi 3 letter. Ho says :
Therefore let our proport ions for these wars
Be soon collected; and all things thought upon
That may, with reasonable swiftness, add
More feathers to OHr wings.
He forgets to explain, however, what the “ pro-
portions ” are, or why we should collect them, or
where the wars are, or what the deuce we have to
do with them wherever they are, and judging
from his call for feathers he appears to mistake
N.S.W. fora bald fowl in the moulting season.
The quotation has a ring of battle about it, but it
is sadly misappropriate when applied to a country
whose military exploits have been confined to
sending an amateur troop into the desert to look
for a fighting nigger spearman who wasn’t there.
♦
New South Wales Civilisation.
Friday last witnessed two peculiar evidences of
the high civilisation of New South Wales. There
was abundant beauty in the world about six o’clock
on that morning, and if a stranger had landed
anywhere on the shores of Sydney Domain and
walked up through the trees ho must needs have
been impressed with the loveliness of his sur-
roundings. But if having crossed the Domain he
had entered Macquarie-street and turned to the
left by the northern wing of the old Rum Hospital
which now does duty as Parliament House, how
rudely would his ears have been assaulted ! He
would have been constrained to turn in by the
iron gate, to push past the sleepy janitor, to
ascend the stair, and then what would he have
seen ? Was there ever a more rude or repulsi' e
melee in the days of the building of the place
when Messrs. Wentworth, Blaxland, and
Riley had their rum-shops like sentry-boxes ah
around, and the masons drew their week’s wage 3
in—buckets ! A broad-shouldered, heavy-bodied,
red-faced man, his hair and beard plentifully
streaked with grey, sits on the table clutching h
with both hands. Another very burly fellow ha=
him by the collar, and seeks to drag him to the
door. The Speaker in his chair affects a diguifle
composure, sundry debauched-looking fell<sw=
hover about encouraging or persuading. "j 1
burly personage who is endeavouring to effect th
arrest calls four flunkeys to his assistance. The)
seize the big man and force him out. The who '
scene resembles a “ chucking-out ” (the frequen
close of a night’s debauch) in a shanty or som
other place, and the stranger tries in vain to sha
off the enchantment, for he cannot believe it to
sober reality which instructs him that this isin r
a shanty or bagnio, but the Senate-house of
South Wales, “I shall awake and find that i ’
a dream,” he says—and walks away towards HJ
Park. And everything there is also fair Rl e
fresh, a gentle breeze rustling the leaves of
camphor-laurels and humming through the pi® 'j.
Down Oxford-street the trams are roaring,
away at the farthest end green trees appear aga
and soon from over the trees comes the tolling
a bell. “Matins,” says the stranger. M a hj' . g
yes. A high priest of our order of civilimti
about to perform an important function. T 1 9
a crowd about the door, which does not look , g
a church door, and the stranger gets in aa - s
conducted to the place of service. Ye 3, the j.
the priest. But what is all about him ?It ‘,
look like communion-table, or pulpit, or fee ’
and that creature with the long, gorilla-like ‘ g
and nose eaten away with hideous gangrene is


rave-yard "ghost than a decent sacristan.
ik £i it's the hangman. The priest shuts his
P ,' and retires, the ghoul-thing reeves] the new
book ‘L ut the nock of his prey, then steals
rOP -liv from his victim’s side and draws the bolt.
B,u 8 ,u Wv spins in the air for a minute and then
h “ , b „ the legs kicking feebly, “Beautiful
“ a , r’ says the ghoul, and by and bye the doctors
> ob ' 5 But the stranger who has not been ac-
«"*d to service or ceremony of thi3 sort, is
C L ?what sick, and when the ghoul-thing
* down and humps away the dead man as
butcher humps away the carcase of a
uuehtered sheep, he follows him curiously down
fhn street in doubt if lie is going to Parliament
0 for another victim prepared early in the
ame morning. Why not? What more natura
? to ordinary sequence, as it would present itself
! t o stranger’s mind, than that the burly person-
should hand over one of his vanquished vic-
mno to the ghoul, and that by and bye they should
find feast after their labours? Order, do-
rorum, customary courtesy, decency of debate all
murdered, and shall nobody hang ? What do
they hang for ?” says the stranger.
About Burmah.
Tim London Echo of August 18th sounds a note
nf warning concerning England’s doing 3 in Bur-
mill On that scandalous subject the Jingo Pres 3
nf Britain and the colonies preserves a significant
,ilonee This is not strange, for the same insatiate
mood that prompted us over a generation ago to
force opium on the Chinese at the bayonet’s point
is to-day engaged in “pacifying” the Burmese
and stealing their country. As pacificators few
things equal breech-loaders. If they do not re-
concile thoy silence. Urged on by Lord Randolph
Churchill, the willing Indian officials have
placed 00,000 British troops on the Irrawaddy to
tiersnade’the “ rebels” to come under the benig-
nant sway of the Empress. The Echo points out
that if the Russians behaved towards Persia a 3
tho British towards Burmah, every debating
society in England would scream denunciations
of Muscovite perfidy ; every pulpit ring _ with
frothy condemnation. But as John Bull is the
culprit no word of reproof comes from the Bench
of Bishops, no pica for mercy from the sleek
incumbents of snug rectories. _ This smug
hypocrisy it is which is eating into the
heUrt of English public life—which leaves
on the national character such a pronounced
Tartufiish odour—which invites the world’s anger
and jeers. And the picture has a dark and
threatening side, too. j India is taxed to the last
farthing. For the Roman -peace imposed upon
them by their conquerors the natives of that vast
peninsula find they have to pay a priee all too
high—discover that they are mercilessly exploited
to pay for powdered Rotten Row flunkeys, to keep
fat dowagers swathed in costly silks, to provide
places and pensions for dull officials who look upon
them as “nigger 3.” These are lessons which the
mild Hindoo is daily taking to heart “ The native
newspapor in India is a young gigantic power
which Lord Lytton tried to crush, but failed.”
This pres 3 finds apt pupils in the astute Bengalee.
It teaches him that he will have to pay for
garotting Burmah, that it is his national debt, not
the British, which will be debited with the sum
squandered in the conquest. And its teachings do
not stop thero. They go much further, tell him to
prepare to govern himself, to learn how to rule in
his own house, and point out the superiority
of the worst native rule to the best
foreign. There are troublous times looming
ahead for the Empire whose drum-roll follows the
sun. It is not by adding conquest to conquest ;
by cynically deriding national aspirations here
and savagely suppressing them there ; by babbling
of others’ inhumanity while offering a reward for
the assassination of a gallant foe or photographing
“rebels” a few moments before their execution,
that the threatening storm will be weathered.
The real enemies of the Empire are those who
burden it with fresh provinces—round off its
boundaries by treacherously seizing strange lands
and demanding allegiance from their inhabitants.
Such seizures weaken instead of strengthening.
The’ impregnable position of America to-day is
largely due to her utter indifference to the posses-
sion of Atlantic or Pacific islands, whether beyond
her horizon or at her doors. It was left for the
Melbourne firm of Service, Gillies, Berry, and
Co. to discover that safety would result from
attaching the Union Jack to every Pacific cocoa-
nut tree. They should ponder well the Echo
writer’s pregnant words : —“ Nations, like indivi-
duals, must carry with them the consequences of
their acts. . . A combination of circumstances
may, at any moment, take place to strain to the
breaking-point the fibres of our Empire. Wo are
strong nowhere, but in our island home. In the
East, we are beginning to stagger under the
"eight of accumulated errors and anxieties.
Another official fact ! The original
C3pi«3 or MS. of all telegram 3 sent from N.S.W.
country stations are now forwarded to the head-
office, Sydney, within a few days after they have
been handed in to the local branches, and copies
such telegrams can only be obtained by a pay-
ment of half-a-crown for each copy.
A long-felt want—one of the longest-felt
wants we know of—is about to be supplied in
Sidney, if rumour is to be relied upon. A move-
ment is on foot to start a new paper to be called
l hc Daily Fraud, the columns of which are to be
reserved exclusively for Government embezzle-
ments, political jobs, wild-cat railways, swindles
m wool freights,'bankers who have gone with the
cash, bankers who are going with ditto, mysteri-
°us shortages in church offertories, with a special
C)lu mn for shining lights who have gone to gaol,
arson in heavily-insured places, and the like. Full
ai jd complete accounts will be given of poor men
have stolen 10s. and got ten years, and rich
men who have defaulted £40,000 and have got the
empathy of all who knew them, and a Chinese
will keep his eye on fan-tan and
i )a £-a-pu swindles, and announce when the police
, re going to make a raid and why it is that they
0,1 1 find anything and are so flush of money for a
uonth afterwards. Every attention will be
‘ )ai -d to saintly landlords who let- houses
! l " high rents for immoral purposes, gentle-
°u who run consultations, and attorneys
elated to judges) who act as trustees for
° J r widows and fail to square up, will also
receive favourable notice. The editor will endea-
°ur to give fall biographies of those auditors who
tr? 41 the accounts are thoroughly satisfac-
n,rA> inst a month before a company bursts with
i i°’ooo missing. In the case of parsons who col-
money to build a new church every effort will
i ® a de to show why it is they have been collect-
-20 years without building the church, and
bishops who bequeath cash for their burial
(lorn 303 an< f then are left above ground will be
dl t with separately in a supplement. There is
bein' | Ca3on Id believe that the Daily Fraud will
CORRESPONDENCE
“Nature”: Your idea that “it is bad enough
to have Parliament filled with drunkards and larrikins with-
out having these men's friends pitchforked into the public
service’’ is not absolutely original. But it is a good idea for all
that....“ Bush Rat”: Will do soassoonaspossiblo ...“Mac-
kay” : Three first-class, well-written libels “C. J.”(Prahran):
Thanks for your graphic account of how the ungrateful and
unprincipled decamping boarder was horsewhipped by the
justly-enraged directress of the hash-foundry...."D. G.
M‘D. (Narrabri): The Mississippi-Missouri, which is the
longest river in the world, is slightly over 4000 miles; the
Amazon is reckoned at 4000, being a few mills less....
“P.S.B. (Melbourne): We have walked over his corpse as
requested “ Echelfechin ’’ (Young): Having undergone
a long training as a dictionary and cyclopaedia we unhesita-
tingly bet on Chambers’ pronunciation of the word. Will
fix our gigantic intellect on your anecdote “Anton”:
The Mussulman law goes even further, inasmuch as
the children nursed by one woman cannot intermarry....
“Parliamentary Catechism”: Not very pointed—“ S.
Colman ” : Must hold over matter for a week or two
“ Oceana ” ; Many thanks....“ W.J.0.” : Never again com-
mit such statements to writing. They may be true enough,
but while the N.S.W. libel law stands— Verb., &c “ Amy
B.” : It doesn’t interest us a bit to learn that the “ family
title of Lord Dewhurst, now A.D.C. to Sir Henry Loch,
dates from 1697.” Our cow has a pedigree dating from the
ark “ Strawberry ” (Melbourne): Thanks for extract
“ W.G.W." : Will look matter up “Democrat”: (1.)
Write to any Sydney bookseller. (2.) The ground is covered
by various great British Radical organisations
“ Subscriber S.”: We aren’t sufficiently interested in the girl
Hicks to “give her portrait.” Ask the Evening News
“Lemuel”: Please call....“ Samuel S.”: We are afraid you’d
better go on writing for the country Press. You fay —
“ We vowed we’d never be afraid
To face the world's rough, stormy weather;
Through weal or woe we’d ever be
Each other’s fond and fervent lover.
And when 'twas time to part should see,
In other words, should then discover
With what affection pure and sweet
We had through life worked side by side,
And joy to think he ne’er had beat
My own, my bright, and blushing bride.”
If your idea of eternal happiness is a condition in which
you’ll be able to sit down and shake hands with yourself for
never having beatep “ the pld woman,” then, Samuel, we
tell you that you'll be reckoned an easily-contented man
when you get to Heaven, and the sooner you gird up your
loins and start for Paradise the better for all parties
H.F.C. (Bulli) : Thanks.., .“E. PluribusDnum” (Brisbane):
Your cause is worthy of a better rhyme.... “ A.K.W.” : Our
statement was strictly correct. Vide Whitakeh’s Al-
manac. ... “ Only a Colonial ” : You bark up the wrong tree
when you ask, “Why is the celebration of the time our
country was discovered a shame and disgrace to us ? ” Your
tutor was evidently afraid to teach you colonial history,
Neither Australia nor N.S.W. was discovered by Captain
Phillip. The Bulletin doesn’t object to the celebration of
the anniversary of the discovery of Australia; but it strongly,
and with good reason, objects to celebrating the anniver-
sary of the foundation of a convict settlement
“J. A. Ralph”: Will look into case “Maud”: A man
has a perfect right to wear his toes where he likes, hasn’t
he? “J. W.” : Our opinion is that Peacock and Co. have
been villainously treated... Banjo” : Where are you?
“O.P.Q.” (Sydney): A dreaiy item, already noticed
“C.W.” (Clare): The prophecy is the safest one we have met.
Of course “if you don’t give you will die.” You’d die any-
how “M.G.”: The P.O. officials who steal notes sent
through the post possibly only do s<3 in order to encourage
people to buy money-orders, and send their revenue along.
You say you miss “ Justice ” from The Bulletin cover.
That is so, but you will always find it in the paper
‘‘Whiteman”: We have heard that Sir Patrick Jennings
has lately discharged a lot of Chinamen from his Garravilia
Station, and suppose this is because he reads The Bulletin.
A man who would employ Chinamen while Australians are
stumping about the country looking for work would not be
fit to be Premier of a prayer meeting....“ J. Mullins" : We
don’t think a book of travels by an assurance agent would be
interesting unless he told the truth, and truth is not in the
assurance-agent “H.M.C.” : Your letter is written very
closely on both sides. It would have been better not to have
written it so closely, and not to have written on both sides.
Better still not to have written it on either side—“ Arch.
Parton”: When next you gushingly award a member
“praise for the gallant stand he has made against political
tyranny," be quite sure that he at the time was sober enough
to stand at all “Para” : All .women love the men, except
those whom the men will have none of—“ H. James”
(Molong): Thanks. Our leader this week deals with the
“home” missioh of the N.S.W. Trades and Labour represen-
tative, and as more copies of The Bulletin than of any
other Australian weekly are mailed to Europe, what we say
will be widely circulated “B.B.”: The law should give
greater assistance to Inspector Seymour, who seemingly does
his level best. The man who, by keeping filthy premises,
kills his next : door neighbours, is a thousand times greater
pest to society than a person like murderer Reynolds, who
was hanged last week. By and bye, society will be more
severe on the man with the dirty back yard than it now is
on the comparatively harmless “ murderer.” The latter, as a
rule, kills only one person before he is himself put in gaol;
whereas the man with the dirty yard often kills half-a-
street, and then has the cheek to attend the funerals....
“A Hater of Mawkish Sentiment” : There are, dear sir,
more ways than one in which a man can kill his wife. He
can kick her to death with hob-nailed boots, after the fashion
of the drunken navvy who has lost his senses and who
sobers up only to find himself in the grip of the hangman ;
or by neglect and sneers he can break her heart, and freeze
her blood in a leisurely, gentlemanly way. The “ finishing
schoolmaster ” reads few lessons to the really cruel people of
the world “J. M. Forde” :In our last issue we pointed
out that the Evening News had stolen the verses. We
did not, however, notice the clumsy alteration which the
literary prig had effected to make Garnet Walch’s ten-year-old
rhymes fit the occasion “Pollie” (Sydney): Bombay,
via Queensland mail steamer, about nine or ten
weeks; Freemantle probably a little less than a month
"S.J.S.”; Broadly speaking, nobody lower in rank than a
bar her's clerk is entitled to the dignity of “Esquire.” How-
ever, if the claimant to such an affix were clearly shown to
have bern convicted of vagrancy more than four times
within two years, the question of his eligibility would be an
arguable one “Aristarchus”: You evidently don’t know
the Australian language...." A.C.” (Bloomfield): As you say,
the Chinamen should be kept out of the country in order that
hundreds of white men, instead of tramping about unem-
ployed, may get a living on the old alluvial goldfields .now
monopolized by Mongols “ J.C.C.H.’, (Newtown): We
can only echo your words. There is not a Government
billet to be got in N.S.W. by merit of any kind, and unless
you are nephew to a member you had better give it up and
try Afghanistan or Timbuctoo or some other place where
the Administration is a little purer Received—“ I’.
Benson” (Melbourne) “John Dell ” (Newtown), and
many others.
Will the writer of “ A Romance of the Lash” please
communicate with the editor 2
THE LAST BULLET.
BY J. FNRRELL
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Since the first human eyes saw the first timid
r*'" stars break through heaven, and shine,
Surely never a man has bowed under the cross
of a curse such as mine ;
They, of all the dead millions of millions whose
dust whirls and flees in the wind,
Who were born sorry heirs of the hate of a Fate
that is bitter and blind—
“ All whose lives pain lias smitten with’fire since
God first set the sun to its course—
What have they known of woe like to mine?
what of grief? of despair? of remorse ?
O, to cancel one hour of my past! O, to shut out
all thought! to forgot!
Then go forth as a leper to die in hot wastes !
Listen ! Over us yet,
“ Her and me, in the heart of the North, hung the
glamour of love at its height—
Joy of things unporceivod of the others —holy
hours of unwaning delight
Joy of selfless devotion to each in each heart—joy
of guiding the foot
Of our babe, our ono daughter, our May, by thi'cc
summers of childhood made sweot.
“ 1 had dared overmuch in the battle for wealth,
I had ventured alone
Upon verdurous tracts that lay fronting the edge
of a do3ert unknown,
Fifty miles further out than the furthest 1 had
chanced on a green width of plain,
In a time when the earth was made glad with a
grey wealth of bountiful rain.
“ Fifty miles from Maoonochie’s Gap. They had
warned me. Some three years gone by,
In a night when the flames of his home reddened
far up the heights of the sky,
With a hard ragged spear in his heart, and a
tomahawk-blade in his head
Lay the master, in death, and his wife—ah, how
better had she, too, lain dead !
“ Dark the tale is to tell, yet it was but a cruel
resentment of wrong,
A fierce impulse of those who were weak for re-
venge upon those who were strong ;
Cattle speared at the first—blacks shot down, and
the blood of their babes, even, shed —
Blood that stains the same hue as.our own. It is
written red blood will have rod.
“ But an organised anger of whites swept the bush
with a fury unchained.
Till the feet of the troo3 had their dead, and the
black murdered corpses remained ;
Till the black glutted crows scarce could rise from
the feast at the sound of a foot,
And the far-away camps through the nights lay
unlighted, and ghastly, and mute.
“ And the terror ran out through the tribes, and
since that dismal crime has been done,
Not a dusk stealthy savage had crossed the wide
bounds of Maoonochie’s run.
But the white skies, in set malediction, stared at
palpitant wastes that implored
For the wine of dry clouds that rose, mocking
them. ‘ Vengeance is mine !’ saith the Lord.
They had warned me. ‘ Out yonder,’ they said,
‘ there’s abundance of water and grass,
You’ve Brown’s Ranges on one side, they draw
down and drain all the rain-clouds that pass.
(We are outside the rainy belt here). But remem-
ber the words we have said —
If you u'ill go, take plenty of arms, and bo sure to
take powder and lead.’
“And I went, with my trustworthy helpers, and
lived through a desolate year
Of suspicions and vigils, and hunger for her of all
dear ones most dear ;
But a year crowned with utmost successes, and
crowned above all things in this
That it brought her again to my side, with the
gift of a new face to kiss.
“ And a blessedness came with her feet, and our
life was an infinite peace,
And the prospering years shed upon us a fair
meed of worldly increase ;
But a thousand times better to' me than large
prospect of silver and gold
Was the sumptuous love of a wife mine for ever
to have and to hold.
“ O, the sting of remembering then ! O could mad-
ness dishevel my mind
Till I babbled of wry tangled things,' looking
neither before nor behind !
But that memory never will sleep, and I crouch,
as the first of our race,
Not my peer in his guilt, crouched and hid from
the sight of God’s terrible face !
‘ ‘ We had hardly' been vexed by the blacks in our
work, though, all through the first j ear
And the second, wc stood upon guard with the
disciplined earnest of fear,
But the summers and winters went by and the
wild hordes gave never a proof
01 their hate, and our vigilance slept and security
came to our roof.
“ Once or twice we had missed a few sheep from
the flocks, once or twice we had found
Far away on the run, dying fires, with the half-
roasted fragments strewn round,
But I bade all the men not to heed any small
depredation, or strive
To bring punishment home to the culprits. Our
pardon is cheap when we thrive.
“ go, unwarned, fell the night of my doom. There
was smoke in the West through the day,
And an hour after noontide the men had been
mustered and sent to waylay
In its course the quick wave that might ruin, for
the high grass was yellow and sere
With the withering breath of the dense sullen heat
of the last of the year.
“ Some had rifles to shoot kangaroo; some had
not ; and my darlings and I
Sat alone in the dusk near our door, with our eyes
on a fringe of the sky,
Where the light of the late-sunken sun was re-
placed by a wide livid glow
Which pulsed high or grew pale as the fire under-
neath it waxed fierce or waned low.
“ We had spoken together, glad-voiced, of the
time when our exile would be
At an end, and our feet once again in the quiet
lands over the sea, '
Till the large lovely eyes of the child felt then
lids grow despotic. She drew
To her mother, and slept in her arms, and the
new-risen moon kissed the two.
“ I was looking beyond them to whore the broad
columns of tree-shadows slept,
Stretching west twice the length of the trees,
when a horror of something that crept,
Something blacker than shade, through the shade,
smote my heart with a hammer of ice,
And with eyeballs dilated and strained, and hands
clenched with the clench of a vice,
“ I leaped up. But a clear sudden hiss cleaved
the night, and, with scarcely a moan
From her lips, the white soul of our child went
among the white souls at the Throne !
‘To the house ! ’ With the dead, and the living,
half-dead, clasped before me, I sprang
Through the strong door, and bolted and barred
it, before on the stillness outrailg,
One wild, volumod malignance of yells ! To
have light might be death. In the dark
On the floor the poor mother gropod madly about
the dead child for a spark
Of the hope of pulsation of life, till the blood that
was mine and her own.
From the boomerang-gash warmed her hands, and
she kijew that we two were alone.
“ Yell on yell of the monsters without! crash of
shutters behind ! but I know
How the wall that divided was built; that, at
least, they could never get through—
Crash of manifold blows on the door ; but I knew,
too, how that had been made,
And I crawled to the corner, and found my revol-
vers, and hoarsely I said :
“ ‘Kiss me now, ore the worst, 0 Bereft!—o
most stricken and dearest of waves —
They will find out this window ! I hold in my
hands but a dozen of lives ;
In the storehouse the arms arc Cod help us!
Fold your hands in the dark, dear, and pray !’
But she sobbed from the lloor, ' God forgets us,
and I have forgotten the way !’
“ Crash of spear through the window! —and an-
swering flash with the message of load
From my hand ! and dull answer to that of a
lean demon form falling dead !
Crash on crash of a dozen of spears ! —till they lay
in a sheaf on the floor
Red rejoinder of lire as the moonlight revealed
them But one bullet more !’
“ I had hissed to myself. But she heard me, and,
seizing my arm, held it fast,
And a hard, altered voice that I knew not at once,
Cried, ‘ Hold ! 1 claim the last;
Dearest love, by your band the divorce ! One last
kiss, till the Infinite Life —-
Once again, on my lips ! Hold it close, and . . .
. . . remember Maconochie’s wife!
“By tlie white sickly gleam of the match she had
bared that true bosom, all red
With the blood of her slain one. I looked in her
eye 3. ‘ God, forgive me !’ I said
. ... And the sound of a crime unexampled, was
echoed outside by a sound—
Not as awful to me that dread Trump, when the
time of my sentence comes round.
“ Rifle-shots close at hand ! —devil-cries !—coun-
ter-cheers of the voices I knew !
They were back ! 1 was saved ! Lost! lost! lost!
Can the blood of the Saviour they slow
Upon Calvary’s hill w r ash off/icrs from my hands ?
For I trusted not God
To the full in the hour of my need, and my lips
will not cleave to the rod
“Of His wrath, and I fall in the sand, with the
weight of the cross that I bear —
Who has ever gone out with a burden of crime, of
remorse, of despair
Like to this ? Let me stumble to death, or through
life —it is equally well,
Doubly-damned, what can death be to me but
translation from Hell unto Hell ?”
Queanbeyau, August 16, 1886.
The Great Victorian Oath.
Mr. Call, P.M. at Melbourne, is apparently a
devout believer in the old superstition about the
sanctity and value of an oath. In Victoria, as in
most other civilised countries, the law allows a
witness to take a simple affirmation should he
prefer to do so, but this particular magistrate
clings with holy reverence to the ancient swear,
and a few days ago he rejected a witness who
declined to share his mania for kissing the Book.
This arbitrary proceeding was certainly rather
hard on the testifying gumsucker, but it was
harder still on the individual who was deprived
of his evidence simply because a fossilised beak
chose to cling with dog-like tenacity to the clean-
picked bone of a theory that has been long since
worn out. But Mr. Call does not stand alone in
his strict abservance of meaningless forms and
worm-eaten ceremonies. In the same colony a
little while ago Judge Williams found himself
confronted by a Hebrew who entered the box
with his head uncovered, and proceeded to inform
his Honor how the whole confounded thing came
about. The Judge, however, knew more about
the customs of the Jordan than did the Canaanite
himself, and when the tale was about half through
he compelled him to jam his hat on his Israel-
itish head and begin afresh. Judge Williams
would probably refuse, on the same principle, to
listen to the evidence of a Chinaman unless the
Mongol had first made a hideous mess on the floor
by cutting off the head of a rooster, or had blown
out a match, or perpetrated some other Semitic
lunacy, but when once the Asiatic had choked
himself with the smoke of a lucifer, or wallowed
in the gore of an ancient fowl, the track would be
clear for any Hongkongese perjury which he chose
to utter. He would, it is presumed, be trustworthy
with the fowl and untrustworthy without it, and
on a similar basis the white man is apparently re-
garded by Mr. Call and his tribe as an irretrievable
and hopeless liar unless he will kiss the
book of which, it may be, he has studied
nothing but the boards. The ancient super-
stition still lingers that a man can be made
truthful by being compelled to knock his face
against a calf-bound volume, but the results of the
swearing process are so unsatisfactory, that it will
probably ere long be abolished. It is hardly
likely either that when it disappears there will be
any perceptible increase in perjury and falsehood,
for all those whose genius calls them to be liars
are liars already in spite of the supposed restrain-
ing influence of the oath, and can hardly beco'ifie
worse than they are, while the truthful man
whom we meet now and then amid an arid waste
of mendacity, is truthful from principle and not
from compulsion or fear. The oath and the de-
capitated rooster, and the blown-out match, and
all the varied judicial hocus-pocus must go sooner
or later, for they are only the superfluities of an
ancient system which has long since outlived its
usefulness.


The Keferee
O’Donnell, a Melbourne footballer, has
been disqualified from playing in any associated
match for 12 months. He “ struck an opposition
man in the face and used disgusting language.”
Serve film right! O’Donnell should have torn his
clothes off him, slung him down, and fallen acci-
dentally with his knees on his friend’s ribs.
Apropos , a Scotch story. “ Sandy’s got twa
■ years.” “ What for ? ” “ Stealing a coo.” “ Sairve
him richt; he should ha’ bocht an’ no paid for i't.”
* * *
Giles, one of the most promising English
middle weight jockeys, has gone mad. Nature
intended Giles to be a decent specimen of
humanity, but his profession required him to re-
main a living skeleton, so the poor beggar has
finally wasted and physicked himself into a
‘ lunatic asylum. This is the melancholy result of
a sst. 71bs. miuimum, the one great evil of horse-
racing to which unpractical purists never draw
attention. Instead of railing at the people who
back horses with their money, the Rev. Jefferis
. and his crew Bhould rail at the pigmies who back
horses with their bodies. Let them point out that
our present system of 1 ‘ sport ” improves the breed
of quadrupeds at the expense of the breed of
human beings. The modern turf, as a gambling
institution, is distinguished by this special curse.
Men may fool away their fortunes at the roulette
table, or the Stock Exchange, but neither the
croupier nor the broker is required to stunt his
growth in order that he can lose your money for
you.
# *
On dit a first-class team of Maorilanders
intend visiting Sydney next football season.
* * #
A cricket match was being played last
season in Queensland, and one of the umpires had
occasion to call “ wide !” In the next over, the
other umpire did likewise although the ball
knocked the middle stump out of the ground. On
being asked for an explanation this functionary
coolly replied that he “ didn’t see why his col-
league should have all the say.”
* * *
At the annual meeting of the N.S.W.
Cricket Association, Mr. Dave Gregory was re-
elected Hon. Sec. for the fourth time in succes-
sion.
* * •»
Stuart Wearne, who, it will be remembered,
was conspicuous as a bowler for N.S.W. in inter-
colonial matches about five years back, has re-
turned from Queensland, and intends to give the
Albert Club the benefit of his services during the
present season.
* * *
The Gordon Club, who have been returned
the premier club of N.S.W. for the past season,
celebrated their success by giving a banquet on
Saturday night, which proved a very enjoyable
and successful affair.
* * *
The Geelong Footballers had a grand time
during the season, playing 19 matches, of which
they won 17, and made a draw of the other two.
They scored 151 goals to their opponents’ 36.
* * *
Sydney’s accomplished yachtswoman seems
to be Mrs. J. M. Curtis, whose custom it is to take
out her lady friends in the Doris with no crew but
the man in charge. Mrs. Curtis manages the yacht
herself, and does it right well. Last Saturday she
sailed the little craft amongst the yachts on their
way to the P. A. Y.C. dinner. One of these days,
no doubt, there will be a race for yachts steered
by ladies.
* * *
It is cabled that the Hanlan-Ross match is
Off. It would indeed be strange were Ross backed
against Hanlan after his defeat by Matterson.
The latter, we see, challenges all comers, bar
Beach, to a £5OO-aside match on the Pafttramatta
next year.
* * *■
The Sydney Mercantile Rowing Club in-
tend to give a £5O trophy for an amateur champion-
ship race if competitors from other colonios will
put in an appearance, if not, the amount will be
reduced. The entrance fee will be one guinea.
The heats will be rowed on the 27th November,
and the final on 4th December.
* * *
Double Bay Regatta will be the first of the
season, and is to take place at the end of this
month.
* * *
At the Ashfield A.A. Club sports, the
liveliest item was not on the programme.' Two
betting men tried ts turn an honest pound by lay-
ing against M’Donald for the double—two and five
miles’ bike races ; the more cheerfully, as a pro-
minent cyclist “ ran” them, that “ M’Donald
couldn’t possibly do it.” When, therefore, little
Mac. romped past the post the second —aye, even
the third time —an easy winner they were heavily
and the only way out of their difficult y
was—out of the ground, whence they essayed to
make an unobtrusive exit. But the angry backers
spotted them and gave chase, and had not, the J
police protected them the two gay welchers would
probably have been taken home on a hurdle. But
if)amateurs can’t do their sports without trying so
hard do* scoop money, why don’t they join the
professionals ? There’s no sympathy for the young
softies, who not only will bet, but also trust un-
known men with the stakes.
* * *
The English yacht Irex is credited with
having covered 50 miles in 4h. 35min.
* * *
Nothing succeeds like success. The
N.S.W. footballers have returned to Sydney and
not a ghost of a reception has been awarded them.
The old, old story.
* * *
The Hawkesbury Handicap settled Meteor.
Mr. J. K. Maitland’s horse passed peacefully
away last week, leaving some more dead money
on the Melbourne Cup books, With only 7st.
111 b. Meteor seemed to have a fair show for the
big event.
* * *
“Professor” Jackson had a benefit on
Saturday evening at Foley’s Gymnasium. Hall
and M‘Car thy had a good four rounds, and Smith
proved too heavy and good for Gorman ; Hickey
and Nelson made a good spar ; Molloy and Bur-
ridge had a quick three rounds, and then Jackson
and O'Donnell wound up the evening. Dooley and
Seymour had a fair attendance at their hall, the
principal attraction being a competition for a
watch. Six went for it, the final pair being Aikin
and Loughlin, the former winning in four rounds.
* * *
Thci N.S.W. Rifle Association Press match
comes off on Saturday, 6th Nov., at 2.30 p.m. It
is open to editors, reporters, and paid contri-
butors of any paper or periodical (including Han-
sard) in N.S.W., competitors not to be members
of any military force.
* * *
The N.S.W. Rowing Association held their
regatta on Saturday afternoon, the s.s. Admiral
conveying visitors to the champion course on the
Parramatta River. Messrs. P. J. Clark, J. E.
Myers, and R. A. Keddie acted respectively as
umpire, starter, and judge. The maiden fours
was won by the Woolloomooloo Bay, R.C., the
tw r o boats of the M.R.C. having collided off Putney
Point, time, 12 minutes. The senior eights fell
to the Sydney R.C., who won by five or six
lengths in 2Of minutes. All schools’ race was
pulled off by the Grammar School crew in 12min.
4sec., five lengths in hand. The S.R.C. had a
walk-over for the junior fours, and the senior
pair oars also fell to the Sydney Rowing Club.
A REMINISCENCE
OF
HATOLD
GREY
"THE PILGRIM"
In a recent English match Scotton was
70 minutes at the wicket without scoring. This
must haA r e been as exciting as the contest for
middle-weight championship In England between
Randalland Turner, who sparred for three-quarters
of an hour without striking a blow. Old Tom
Cribb, one of the seconds, lay down and asked for
a nightcap.
CAULFIELD CUP ANTICIPATIONS.
(from our own correspondent.)
Caulfield Cup—Little John, Recall, Lesbia.
Steeplechase—Sir Samuel, Terang, Blackthorn.
Nursery Handicap —Hortense, Probationer,
Eclat.
Windsor Handicap—Lady Bell, Pocahontas,
Gadfly.
vMayor Young, of Sydney, is holding what
pleased to call a “ Municipal Jubilee,” All
We have yet seen of the affair consisted of
five fat persons (apparently from Victoria),
who on Tuesday, just after dinner, struggled
into a bogusly-magnificent hired carriage out-
side a city boarding-house. They were dressed
in field-marshals’ hats and “civic” uniforms,
they had massive Abyssinian gold chains
round apoplectic necks that would have sup-
ported the heads of mastodons, and on which
the veins stood out like an irrigation plan sketched
on the bulgy side of a pig ; they owned large feet
and an imbecile smile apiece, their vacanteyes were
bloodshot through too much jubilee, wild they
drove down the street amid the jeers of the popu-
lace. In the sweet by and bye such bulbous indi-
viduals as these will be taken into the bush,
stripped of all their tawdry, unmeaning finery,
and incontinently pole-axed.
A “brutal ” Ministry or a brittle Ministry.
Which ?
The Harmy of Victoria want £2OOO to pay
their debts. They don’t intend to file their holy
“ shovel.”
Mary Jane Driscoll, of Sydney, has been
committed for trial. Mary was married 30 years
ago, and three years later separated from her
husband. In 1870 she married again, but after
14 years of bliss her second husband found that
he was beginning to go undermost in their daily
figlil.u, and concluding that he wa3 too old to
scrimmage with such a muscular warrior he also
left. Then there was an interval of two years,
after which the first husband turned up and Mary
was run in. The two tottering wrecks faced each
other in the police court, but not having met for
27 years neither could identify the other. Mary
was committed, however, on outside evidence,
and when she comes out again she will probably
sue for 27 years’ maintenance, with compqund
Hebrew interest, and make the old man wish he
had never been born.
A Sydney man no longer looks for Parlia-
mentary news under the accustomed heading in
the morning paper. When he wants to And out
what the House did last night he casts his eye'
over his paper until he comes across, in big type,,
the words—“YOU ARE A LIAR!” “ SAVAGE)
ASSAULT!!”
What a heap of Centennial shows w<?
could have had if a stubborn and brutal opposi-
tion had not spoiled the fun ! March 6th, 1888>
will be the Centenary of the erection of the first
gallows in Australia. Hyde Park, Sydney, was the
spot selected for the show, the principal performer
being James Barrett, a youth of 17, who was
turned off for a paltry job of robbery. As James
was the first to patronise what subsequently be-
came a most popular colonial institution, it seems
mean to overlook his claims to*a Centennial re-
cognition. Besides the claim already mentioned,
he was the first to introduce the celebrated “ Bar-
ret’s twist ” to the colony, and that alone should
entitle him to he considered the Raleigh of Aus-
tralia.”
Apropos of that holy pilgrimage made by
the Sydney dailies to the shrine of St. Richard Cob-
den last week. The Freetrade dailies aforesaid and
their friends, the Sydney boot manufacturers wlm
don’t want Protection, carefully kept back the
‘ ‘ other half ” which would have upset their
apple-cart. The Freetraders’ “expose” of th«
evils of Protection was a huge hoax. They dm
not search for truth —more, they did not get it*
Bootmaker Wright howled out for Protection,
and said his trade was going down, down ; Boot-
maker Hunter, who was quite content to make
boots under the beneficent influences of Freetrade,
explained that the falling-ofF in Wright’s outpu
of boots was simply due to his (Hunter’s) compete
t ion—that was all. However, what was not tola
the Freetrade pilgrims contains this suppr cssto .
veri, that for the last ten years the exportation 0
Sydney-made boots has gradually declined, while
N.S. W.’s importations of boots have increased at a
fearful rate, and however interesting it may be t
know that a couple of importing firms hav
added to their business a certain amount 0
locally manufactured articles, and done so success
fully, it does not touch upon the question of Free
trade as against Protection, as the execute
officer of the Free Trade Association would hM
us believe. The misleading leaders in the t _
morning dailies of last Thursday in reference
the Sydney boot trade are clear evidences of w’b®
champagne, a free ’bus ride, and hastily-swallo"
portions of mis applied figures can do with mu l
ready to jump at any shadowy straw that will °,
help on their pre-conceived ideas of what ought
be. Now, what is the absolute truth ? Bast f e
N.S.W. exported in boots and shoes of her o
manufacture only £45,710, wTnlst ten J/®?
ago she sent out £59,404. Her popular
ten years ago was 629,776 ; last J ea L, 0 t
was 980,572. Where is your flourishing b
trade in the face of these figures, Mr. Pulsf°
Again, in 1876, N.S.W. imported for her own
(deducting imports re-shipped) £226,613 wor '
'and last year £640,916 ! ! We advise Mr. *
ford to try some other line next time and to k
away from figures—unless he gives us the
without prejudice.
“The Pilgrim.”
Last Saturday morning there died in Sydney, at
the early age of 35 years, a man who, though per-
haps not personally well known to what is con-
ventionally termed society, had nevertheless for
years and years been in constant and familiar
communication, through the columns of the news-
papers, with all sorts and conditions of
people. That man was Theodore Emile Argles,
better known as “Harold Grey,” or, as he signed
himself, “ The Pilgrim.” A man of keenest per-
ception, tenacious memory, and wonderful fertility
of imagination, Argles was a press-writer unique
in his way. He was of French descent and had
travelled much in his tempestuous and wayward
life. A master of the art of satire, no wonder
that the first Australian efforts of his acrid pen
arrested the attention of a community unaccus-
tomed to read in the journals anything stronger
than mild deprecation, calculating cautiousness,
or a euphemism that invariably concealed every-
thing which might prove disagreeable to that dull
army known as “right-thinking people.” Argles
was never merciful, but always hawklike. In
every aspect, in feature and in intellect, he was
strongly aquiline. Thin, almost to emaciation,
his figure was as sharp and angular as his mind—
there was no rounded grace in either. Yet not
only with a bitter pen did he excel; for in all the
colonies there was no man so full of whimsical
idea and delicate humour. Prolific scarcely ex-
presses his powers of production ; some men can
write on anything, Grey could write on nothing,
and invest that nothing with a downright fascina-
tion. You would forget what he wrote; but you would
never forget how it tickled when you perused it. Asa
ready versifier, a suggestively descriptive writer,
and a theatrical persifleur, he had no equal in this
hemisphere ; when he enlarged on men and women
he scanned them from ludicrous sidelights with
the keen eye of the literary caricaturist. He was
a man who went through life taking a bird’s-eye
view—one glance summed up a scene and one
effort of his pen would reproduce it in columns of
sparkling airiness. Of his weaknesses it is no ad-
vantage to speak now ; all men have their faults,
and those with least brains generally have the
fewest. “ The Pilgrim ” wasn’t a negative man ; a
kindlier nature might have made more friends —-
a stronger one been less an enemy to himself. He
died of consumption, and had a terrible struggle
with death, throughout which he was unceasingly
watched over by his wife and by that kind-hearted,
disinterested gentleman who was to lpm more
than a friend —Mr. Alfred Dampier, the actor.
When Poets Sing to Me.
The carking cares of life uplift—the passion and
the pain ;
The lamentation for a loss; the grasping after
gain;
The memory of fickle friends who broke their
faith with me ;
The white rose blooming o’er the dead I never
more may see ;
The wrongs unspeakable that I have been com.
pelled to bear —
The poison of the liar’s tongue, the traitor’s subtle
snare —
All vanish, and my soul leaps up, triumphant
proud, and free, ’
When the poets—oh, the poets!—sing their wild
sweet songs to me ! ’
And, breaking through my prison bars, and scorn-
ing time and tide,
I live with old memorial things, I wander spaces
wide.
Hot Afric jungles thick and green bofore my
vision rise,
A cruel tiger crouches there With bright and burn-
ing eyes,
And in the shadow of a palm a naked native -
stands
With lifted spear—the savage son of still more
savage lands.
I see the desert stretching dim before my aching
eyes :
Oases with their plumy palms carved green against ■
the skies ;
And the stern and ancient Pyramids within whose 1
ghostly gloom
The crowned and sceptred Pharaohs wait the:
trumpet and the doom ;
And black Assyrian ruins where the tents of Arabs
gleam ;
And the solemn site of Tyre where the fisher
dreams his dream;
And I hear the ocean asking where the Pharos casts >
its fire ;
“ Where are the ships of Tarshish now—the stately
ships of Tyre J”
Sweeter still the bards are singing ; in a grand
cathedral’s gloom
I am standing in the silence by an old crusader’s
tomb—
Standing in the solemn silence, while from gilded 1
pillars tall
O’er lampless shrines the shadows of funereal
banners fall.
But the organ’s mournful music stirs the calm i
with muffled moan—
Swells into the trump of thunders —sinks into a
tinkling tone —
Peals into the psalm of oceans —then the surging
music swoons,
And it is the silvery singing of the birds of spicy;
Junes.
I see the beetling Alps arise, white with immortal 1
snow,
As when they rang with Gothic staves dim cen
turies ago ;
I see Italia’s garden spread before my eager eyes—
There splendour-shod the planets set and splen-
dour-shod they rise ; •
I see Alaska’s frozen heights and Brunswick’s -
forests dim —-
The shores where sang the Puritans their wild 1
Deliverance Hymn;
I see the thunder-cloven hills, 1 the time-hewn ‘
canons see,
As of the savage Occident the poets sing to me.
But now the shadows fall athwart the solemn sun
set hills,
And dim the wild apocalypse that all this poem i
fills.
But the poets, oh, the poets! they will come to me !
again
When my heart is torn and bleeding on the Bat- •
tlefield of Men.
W. H. KERNAN.


SUNDRY SHOWS
» <«►
Theatre Royal— “ Billfe Taylor” p. 14
Alhambra Music Hall— Minstrelsy „
School of Arts, Balmain— Lynch Family Bell
ringers .. .. „
Academy of Music—' 1 Spoons'
Roval Standard Theatre—•" Faust” 15
New Opera House— “ Romeo and Juliet ’’ ..
Tho opera of “John Smith”—we beg
pardon, we meant to say “Blllee Taylor”—was
put on the board r at Sydney Royal on
Saturday night. According to the pro-
gramme, ic is the combined work of Messrs.
Stephens and Solomon, and, judging from
internal evidence, we are inclined to think Stephens
bet Solomon a tenner that he would produce an
opera calculated to ruin the digestion of a canni-
bal, and that Solomon went double or quits that
when Stephens had finished his job he would take
the production in hand and make it six times
worse than before. As far as we can learn, Solo-
mon won the bet. The be3t parts of the piece are
obviously borrowed from “ Pinafore,” and utterly
ruinod in the borrowing—the worst parts are
hideously original. Bil'.ee Taylor, whom the
authors have endeavoured to make the hero of
the opera, is a cheap young man of the kind that
sell at two cents a dozen ; at the beginning of the
performance he is a Pecksnifflan cabbage-grower,
and towards the end he is a
starchy, poker-backed cur, but he
is hopelessly uninteresting in
either case. In the first act he is
about to be married to Phoebe, a
very knowing and rather at-
tractive young lady, and he tells
hisjoyinblankprosethatl as been
passed through a chaff-cutter and
chopped into jagged and spiky
opera. His rival, Crab, tl e village
schoolmaster, lacks his gift of
song, and reveals hh lcve by fat
gesticulations ; he tells a blood-
curdling tale to an inflamed
widow, and relieves his over-
charged feelings by viciously flog-
ging sis small boys. Next we
And that the daughter of a
wealthy knight is in love with
Taylor; for years she has eased
her heart by sending li m plates
of anonymous bon6s and chunks
of left-off dinner from the kitchen,
but now she grows desperate,
and formally offers to share his
income of is. (3d. a day. She is
ignominiously repulsed, how-
ever, and makes her retreat,
while her father sing 3 his bio-
graphy. His melody is a ghastly
copy of the “ Ruler of the Queen's
and resembles it in the
®amts degree as a broke i-backed
'hinaman without arms or legs
resembles Sir Patrick Jennings.
1 hen Captain Flapper, a woefully
gay dawg, appears on the scene,
&n d kisses the whole charity
school; he also falls in love wth
aylor’s sweetheart, and being
repulsed by that maiden he lays
a vile scheme, which ends in the
irtuous turnip youth and the
ctioolmaster being impressed and
Jy "° sea- The first act then
os with the tune the old cow
died of.
* » *
The second act is worse.
*hee Taylor is now first lieu-
?J a the “ Thunderbomb,”
wh\* v sweetheart and the
n„„ f . e charity school have donned
in lca Pants and gone to sea
„ « arc h of him. They find him
dauvK? lOVe to the knight’s
r > and the schoolmaster
fat ™L ked on his outer layer of
cussir, ltk B . Uch forc@ that the con-
Thfa n* \ 8 h ea rdalloverthehouse .
thin ? f °P era is drawn out exceedingly
end 0* oPhens having apparently hung on to one
e . Solomon grabbed the other, and
ing. . them it is stretched to the point of burst-
that St v *"’ however, the strain became so great
U P witvi en3 -k ad to let go, and the piece winds
fallg int n, hideously limp finish. The fat man
ffoatine- ,10 sea an d picks up a letter which was
Perusal ftfong the sharks and whales; the
same inn document reveals Taylor as the
opeuinv J l6 and dabby cur that he was in the
heart /L ce . ne ’ an d he is disrated, while his sweet-
tenant iVv,'! 03 ca Pt a i n and becomes first lieu-
" grand fli S n ead ' This fact is announced in a
of jj r dale ” which ought to draw the attention
ddisanees beymour > the energetic inspector of
* * *
Th
Elton 6 ac k/ n §> ( especially that of Mr. William
Pdnishahu 6 Taylor” from becoming a
{* exceedin , e nee. As Ben Barnacle, Mr. Elton
1 on n . y ®°°d> and his rendering of the song,
B *fenuati n CCoU df' °f Eliza,” makes that melody an
jv fluid onh-\ Clrcum stance. In other hands it
“Ut it Se J* be an aggravation of the original sin,
Ousted in rf a so much ability should be
a J* e Bed np a wooden atrocity like this
?, 8 ° holds nn't-v r - Vern on, as Captain Flapper,
e ’’dett i« tlle w reck manfully and well; Miss
hfowart nviL- ery go °d as Eliza, and Miss Nellie
/he otker a moderately attractive Phoebe.
, ear that thp r - rniers s . eem t: ° he oppressed with a
f? e °ihe dn\-' ,asged Pd e °f hexameters is going
hey ''vantps'/ 1 a crash, and they look as if
Uled t 0 stand from under.
The Chicago Minstrels, at Sydney Gaiety
prove, on inspection, to be the remains of some
old friends in a very bad state of repair. There
are two tambos and two shiny niggers with bones
but it is impossible to make a couple of weak
jokes spread properly over four men, especially
when two of the jokes are absent as is the case a
the Gaiety. The old pun about Cain not being
Abel is resurrected once more, and it looks
smaller and meaner than it did on any of the other
927 timSs we heard it, and the Salvation Army is
dished up in all its threadbare wretchedness ant
used as a knob on which to hang the batteroc
wreck of what once tried to bo a piece o
alleged humour. “ The Windy Man,” though
a good song, did not sound so gay as
when we heard it at the Federals, while
“Save my Mother’s picture from the Sale”—a
melody which drove us to drink some weeks ago
at the Princess—turned up again in all its chloro-
formed misery. The audience laughed now and
theh, but at one awful crisis when they should have
done so they remained as solemn as aparcgoric owl
there was a soulful pause, and then the cpmpany
laughed instead. We went out and sat on a door-
step at the end of the first part, and looking up
at the pale stars we asked wearily why all this
was so hideously thus. Consequently we did not
see the second act of the hash, but we observe
from the programme that it includes “ The Gaffers
of the Gang,” which was a really brilliant item at
the Princess, and as three of the actors were the
same as before we assume that it made good
amends for the preliminary infliction. The pro-
gramme ooncluded with Dave Gardner’s farce,
“ Here’s your Ashing line,” in which the author
plays the part of a fat boy without any intellect;
this was also rather amusing the last time wo saw
it, but it was not quite so good the time before.
*A£. Ak AA,
TV* TT *7V*
“Romeo and Juliet,” at Sydney Opera
House, is to give place to “Ingomar” on Satur-
day. Miss Jenyns, with her vital and dramatic
force, rich talent, and magnetic power, is a match-
less artiste, and the queen of the Australian stage.
The careful acting of Miss Kate Arden as nurse
to Juliet contains much merit, and is an excellent
study. As Juliet, Miss Essie Jenyns will be always
welcome, but we grow weary of seeing Romeo
tow her across the stage and then stop and haul
her back again, and then make a mad rush in chase
of nothing in particular, and pull up about the
middle of nowhere with a blank look as if he Ind
been chasing a tram-car in his sleep and just
awakened as it turned the corner. Wo jeally
don’t care to see the dainty Juliet jumped about
in this rough and unceremonious manner ; we
would like Romeo to resolve where he is going to
before he starts on these wild expeditions of his,
BEN. BARNACLE.
and then we would like him to go there and stay
and grow up with the country, and let Juliet
finish her part alone. In short, we don’t so much
object to Mr. Holloway’s fondness for rushing
about the stage, but we do object because he does
not rush far enough and in a straight line. If he
would run about 10 miles it would do provided
he went right ahead.
## # #
At the time of writing, “Faust” is still
running with great success at Sydney Royal
Standard, and contrasted with some rather weak
entertainments which occupy the boards in other
places of amusement, it is a relief to fall back on
a really reliable fiend who is always on the de-
moniac spot when he is wanted. Mephistopheles,
as pourtrayed by Mr. Dampier, is the living em-
bodiment of a big big D ; he was an amusing and
ironical cuss on his first appearance, and his irony
and his cuss have both been improving each suc-
cessive evening. lurther information regarding
his habits may be gathered from the Book of
Genesis, also from Job, chap. 1, verse 7, from
which it will be seen that he is a long-distance
pedestrian of no mean order. In some respects,
however, he has improved since the early days of
history; the tail which he hitched up round his
waist when he climbed the barbed-wire fence of
Eden has been worn away or amputated, and he
has got rid of that obtrusive habit of distributing
blisters on the surface of a Christian’s hide
which used to make him so obnoxious. On the whole,
we are exceedingly glad to have made his ac-
quaintance and shall part with him at the close of
this week with feelings of deep regret.
Spoons ’ is still drawing tolerable houses
st Sydney Academy. Mr. Rickards seems to
prosper in his eight characters, and appears
nightly as almost everything on the face of the
earth except a horse and an Aunt Sally. It only
requires these to make his repertoire complete.
We have not yet discovered what the piece is
about, though we sent two committees with
instructions to draw up a report and present it as
early as possible. One of these, consisting of a
small boy with power to add to his number,
thought it had something to do with a livor-pad
advertisement; whilo the other, which was com-
posed of a washerwoman with herself in tho chair,
sent in a long statement to the effect that the
company s shirts “ was starched lovely and seomed
quite new. ' Wo intend renewing our inquiries
next week.
*# # #
The Lynch Family of Bellringers are still
drawing large and appreciative audiences in the
suburbs of Sydney, and as the buildings in which
they appear are mostly watertight their allow will
be found a blessing on a wet night. On Sat urday,
the lOthinst., they appear at tho Glebe, and do
Burwood and Petersham on Monday and Tuesday.
## # #
The Fisk Jubilee Singers are still jubilis-
ing at the Sydney Y.M.O.A. Hall. The gate
money looks well, and Lord Carington has pro-
mised to be present on Friday, tho 15th. It
might bo well, however, if there was a little loss
hymn book— and second-rate hymn-book at that—
in the entertainment, for a dash of profane cussed-
ness goes well wit h a Sydney audience.
## # *
Through the portals of the gay Sydney
Alhambra the multitudes still continue to troop
in quest of the only Smith’s “ refinement without
vulgarity.” The vocalism, dancing, and variety
business go very well, but when the corner-men
begin working off some relics of the pre-Adamite
period in the shape of joke 3 a cold shiver runs
through the audience, and they look at each other
with that dull kind of stare which tells of intense
menta. agony. William Warner, of Fenian Cat
famo, makes his bow at the Alhambra for the first
time this week
*AL. Al, AL
TV •7v- -7V*
Business has been quiet at Melbourne
R >yal for the last two or threo w-eeks. Even a
preliminary course of “ Crime* of Paris” failed to
educate the people to a proper understanding of
“ Haunted Lives.” Nevertheless, tho drama —or
whatever it is called—was well played and capit-
ally mounted. A few grains of common-sense
discreetly dropped in, and the whole well stirred
for ten minutes, might have changed “ Haunted
Lives ” into a suocess. The triumvirate are hope-
ful of making a splash with /Human Nature,”
and large bodies of stage troops are being en-
gaged for the military spectacle. There is an
opening there for any members of the Contingent
who still thirst for belud and glory. Supers who
have seen active service can command an extra
threepence per night.
AL A/,
*7v* *7v > 'A*
After showing all the preliminary symp-
toms of Shakespeare fever, the Melbourne stage
is suffering from a violent attack of farcical
comedy. The Brough-Boucicault combination
opened their season at the Opera House on Satur-
day with “ Turned Up,” and, as a countermove,
tho triumvirate, put up “ The Candidate” at the
pretty Jittlo Bijou. Meanwhiie, “ Bad Lads ”
d aws a little money to the Alexandra and the
Widow O’Brien is making herself very happy at
St. George’s Hall. On the 16th Mr. Phil Day will
a pear in oneof Toole’s parts in a recently imported
play, “ Uncle Dick’s Darling.
## * #
The pretentious ignorance of theatrical
matters displayed by some of the Melbourne
papers is often amusing. Men who have never
crossed the lino learnedly discuss the performances
of Irving, Mrs. Kendal, and Edwin Booth, or
draw subtle distinctions between Australian
actors whom they have seen and English actors
whom they haven’t. Jfhus one twaddling weekly,
speaking of our stock companies : “ It is within
the range of possibility that a company could be
formed as good as that supporting Henry Irving
or the American comedian, Adonis Daley. In
these companies each actor and actress, by dint of
careful, almost meehanical training, has acquired
admirable proficiency in a certain style of charac-
ter. If they go outside their beat they are
failures.” That’s the sort of stuff which the Mel-
bourne old ladies swallow with their afternoon
tea. In this particular instance the writer has
gone very much astray. He is mixing up Adonis
Dixey with Augustin Daley. The latter has
organised a clever company to play his
own comedies at his own theatre in New
York, while the former is nicknamed “Adonis”
after a burlesque which caught on in America and
fizzled in London. So much for “ Adonis” Daley.
Now, as regards the “mechanical training” of
Irving’s crowd, it is sufficient to say that the wide
range of the “ star’s ” repertoire compels the mem-
bers of the Lyceum company to change their “beats”
with every fresh production. William Terriss was
Irving’s first hand for some years. His ‘ ‘ certain
style of charactor ” was Mercutio, Jack Wyatt
(“Two Roses”), Bassanio,and Squire Thornhill (in
a dramatised version of “The Vicar of Wake-
field.”). At the present moment Terriss is playing
the hero in Sims and Pettit’s melodrama, “ The
Harbour Lights.” Mr. George Alexander, again,
was the blind young man in “ Two Roses a few
weeks back h@ was playing “Faust.” When we
add that Irving has won golden opinions as the
Vicar of Wakefield and Mephistopheles, and that
his very latest London appearance was in the
character of Jeremy Diddler, our castigation of
the Melbourne driveller is completed, He can go
—and sin no more.
#* # *
Mr. Harry St. Maur is making many
friends in Melbourne. He had no sooner landed
than someone stole his travelling-bag When
Hugo’s Minstrels were performing at Albury,
recently, an individual who wanted a souvenir of
Miss Verne stole two pairs of her best silk stock-
ings from her dressing-room. On being followed,
however, ho threw them away and bolted
Fryer’s circus is doing good business among the
East Indies. At Macassar, the niggers, who had
never before seen such an affair, were inclined to
worship the big poster, and these unsophisticated
Asiatics did a unanimous act of bankruptcy to get
inside. Singapore, Bangkok, and other out-of-the-
way spots are also on the programme,and civilisation
is looking up in the East The Auburn Amateur
Dramatic Club appeared for the first time at the
Albert Hall; Granville, recently. The entertain-
ment commenced with a concert, followed by a
fares, “ The Steeplechase.” There was a large
audience. Mr. A. Massey acted as accompanist.
Mr. Arthur Redwood, the actor, who has had
a bad attack of paralysis, is, we are glad to hear,
gradually improving.
Two Millions Short.
Iwo millions short ” will make an appropriate
epitaph {to place over the political grave of the
Jennings-Dibbs combination. The members of
that happy menagerie have reached the pinnacle
of their fame by accomplishing an act of insol-
vency such as no other Cabinet can hope to rival;
each individual member of the gang has apparently
devoted himself to an attempt to spend more
money than all the rest put together, while the
political aim of the combined crowd would
really seem to have been to possess less
available assets to meet this expenditure than
the most impoverished individual among them. It
is gratifying to note that in both oasos the efforts
has been crowned with tolerable success. The
year commenced with a deficiency of abont
£1,350,000 ; it is to close with a shortage of “about
£2,100,000,” and from what we have seen of the
Jonnings-Dlbbs arithmetic the term “ about two
millions ” may mean anything less than three.
The saving of some £600,000, which was confi-
dently promised, has vanished into thin air, and
in placo of retrenchment another £600,000 and
more has been addod to that portentous 1.0. U.,
which appears to be mounting upat such compound
Hebrew interest as no Hebrew ever yet dreamt of 1
Amid the great African desert of Sir Patrick’s
verbiage —amid his slaughter of the four rules of
arithmetic, his mutilated decimals, and his rofrac
tory fractions, this one fact stands out prominently
and alone. Where the money has gone to no one
can tell with any certainty, and we have only a
shadowy explanation as to where it did not come
from, and why it did not come. A prolonged
course of temporary supply bills has done much to
augment the confusion; it is so long since the last
coherent financial statement was given that it is
now surrounded by the mists of antiquity, and
nothing is really known except that the bottomless
pit of the Jennings-Dibbs Government has swal-
lowed up everything, and that it intends to oon-
tinueswallowingforan indefinite period. The people
of N. S. W., however,are getting used to these things,
for the intimation that another million has
vanished comes as regularly as dinner-time and
much more regularly than dinner. But still in
some respects the colony retains its proud pre-
eminence. In the matter of government it can
show more falsehood and stupidity to the square
inch than all the rest of Australasia combined ;
in Parliamentary blasphemy it stands absolutely
alone ; and the vast stores of ignorance possessed
by its legislators would suffice to stock a whole
continent with inhabitants who did not possess
one useful fact among them, and still leave abun-
dance for home consumption. Even the Jennings-
Dibbs’ Cabinet cannot rob us of these honours,
And what’s the remedy 1 “ Let’s put Parkes into
office.’ No fear. Let us get a new constitution—
one adapted to the wants of the country. Sooner
or later, it must come.
Osman Digna is alive again.
The N.S.W. bogus Patriotic Fund is to be
returned to the subscribers, less the cost of adver-
tising the donors.
“Hams are animatod,” says the Sydney
D.T’s. commercial reporter in Tuesday’s issue. The
confounded summer, we suppose.
The Sydney D.T. gently suggests that
Mayor Young’s successor may as well celebrate
another jubilee next year when all the rest of the
Empire will also be on the hurst. Whew ! Two
jubilees and a centenary in three years.
Who says that Australian literature re-
ceives scant encouragement ? From the Victorian
Government Printing Office was recently issued a
sketch entitled “ History of Parliament Houses,’
prepared by the clerk of the Victorian Legislative
Assembly. The first edition of this work was ex-
hausted in three days, and Premier Gillies has
promised to bring out a second edition. The
History is an immense success. It is distributed
gratis.
Caffrey, the Great Barrier Island mur-
derer, is a virile sort of criminal, and stands out
in strong relief alongside the mean, one-horse
crowd of bank-defaulters, swindlers, and drunken
homicides who daily come under notice. He was
master of the fast-sailing little cutter Sovereign of
the Seas trading on the N.Z. coast, and was in
love, with the full force ef his fiery, passionate
nature, with a girl named Taylor, who lived on the
Great Barrier Island. But CafFrey was a Catholic,
while Miss Taylor’s father was a cast-iron Protes-
tant who believed in the old-fashioned Sheol and
declined to let his daughter go there by wedding a
papist. The girl married another lover, and
Caffrey, the maddened victim of love and religion,
deliberately killed her father, being aided in the
mux-der by Penn, a commonplace ruffian, who
assisted in the work just as he would have assisted
to hump a cask if asked to do so. Penn finished
his share of the work by abducting one Lizzie
Graham, aged 20 years, and then the desperadoes
started in their cranky little craft for America.
Baffled by contrary winds, however, they steered
at last for Australia, and after a three months’
voyage the Sovereign of the Seas arrived, battered
and almost sinking, off the Queensland coast She
went down near Port Macquarie, and Penn,
according to Caffrey’s story, was drowned
while trying to land with the girl, his un-
willing victim. Caffrey escaped and remained
free for a month, but the cutter’s wreckage came
ashore, the police were put on the alert, and he
was surprised at last by a constable disguised as a
swagsman. Caffrey was the same daring buc-
caneer to the last. He had sworn not to be cap-
tured alive, and his loaded revolver was ready for
defence if necessary, but he was taken so com-
pletely unawares that he had no time to use it.
His chance might have been a better one if he had
made for the coast of Asia, but the world is
almost too small now for such men as he.
A Melbourne correspondent writes re-
marking that it doesn’t look well to see a high
legal dignitary breaking into his wife’s house
at midnight with the help of hired ruffians, in
order that he may take away the furniture in a
van. P.S.—This is the only item of real scanda
which has reached us this week.


Pepper And Salt
Dr. Joyce, of Melbourne—whom we take
to be a physician who has retired from active
slaughter—is running a hot crusade against
tobacco. He says that—
“ If God had found tobacco necessary to the life and well-
being of Adam He would have pointed it out to him ; and
if the Almighty had-considered that whisky and spirits
were necessary to Adam, He would have placed a barrel of
whisky for him in the Garden of Eden.”
Just so. But will the doctor produce one —only
one —text to show that the whisky was not placed
in Eden ; and will he quote a single passage to
prove that the pipes and tobacco were not there
also ? Dr. Joyce was not present at the time, so
he knows no more about it than we do. If liquor
and cigars were sent into, the Garden, then their
Use is lawful ; if they were no,t sent Ihero it is no
wonder Adam, cleared out, but the doctor must
prove h,is case. Again, even if t here was neither
d beer nor a smoke in Eden, is that any proof that
they must b,e done away with ? There were no
doctors in Eden either, so on the same principle
Jieyce, him,self should be abolished ; there was no
medicine, then why does Joyce pound up
i|Pecacu,anhn and other beastly drugs ?; There
Were no tramcars or cabs in that Elysium on the
fpur rivers, therefore let Joyce, M. D. slush with
Weary legs through the mudj ; an,d there wore
neither boots, liats, nor clothes in all Asia ip those
early days. We pin, our faith to this last item.
Let Joyce apt up to his creed—let him visit Sydney
and go, naked, and get a flogging, and then —well
then wp will believe, in him, and we shall have
something lively to write about when the “ den
of thieves ” pro-rogues.
* * *
Dr. Joyce considers that smoking is an
insult to the Almighty, and he “would like to
know how a Christian young man would look
going up to the gates of Heaven with a pipe stuck
in his mouth.” But there arc fellows who would
look angelic under such conditions. Why, Spur-
geon, for instance, has publicly declared that ho
“ smokes to the glory of God,” and if he marched
up sticking at a meerschaum, he might be pre-
ferred to the Y.M.C.A. young man sneaking
along with his mouth full of buttered toast and
watercress. “Some people,” says Dr. Joyce,
“ seem to think that every young man must have
a vice, but I believe it is possible for men to live
without vice.” All a mistake. It is easy enough
for a man to rub along without virtue. We’ve
tried the experiment.
One of the great objections the aesthetic
globe-trotter raises against Australia is that it
smells too strongly of new paint. The whole con-
tinent is too modern, especially for early English
travellers, who. complain that we have no ruins
worth looking at, and no traditions which treat of
anything more romantic than religion and rum, or
triangles and tobacco. On no towering cliff does
the tourist see the crumbling battlements of a
feudal castle, once the stronghold of some splendid
noble robber-, who used to round up his trusty
followers whenever funds ran low, and sally out
and slit the wizzens and scoop the spoils of the
merchant trains who tremblingly travelled along
the highway below. Strictly speaking, these
charges are not true. The self-same style of
robbers are plundering as briskly to-day in this
new land as ever they did in the good old times of
Rudolph the Ruthless and all the rest of the
German gang, the only difference being that our
blackmailers work under the protection and not in
the dread of the country’s laws. Truculento the
Terrible has doffed his armour of mail and hauled
on an evangelical suit of black, or an aldermanie
robe of office, and his good right hand “ greases
the wheels,” or wields the contribution-box, or the
fraudulent contract-form, instead of the sword,
but he is still the same old robber in his heart and
makes his tens of thousands now where formerly
he could barely score a hundred. As for ruins, we
have the ruins of reputations in abundance, and
anyone who doubts this must bo woefully ignorant
pf the political history of the land.
‘ ‘ Horrified by recent disclosures, both in
the Press and the Divorce Court, the Methodists
are going to establish what they term a “ fort” in
the centre of Mayfair, for the purpose of convert-
ing the wealthy and wicked dwellers in that aris-
tocratic locality. They have come to the conclu-
sion that the East-end toilers do not require their
religious wants attended to so much as those who
garb themselves in purple and tine linen.” —Lon-
don paper.
SCENE: Interior of a N.S.W. Court House,.
LOCAL J.P (to obstreperous legal man) : “MR. SMITH, IV YE CAN'T RESPECT THE
DIGNITY AV THE COORT, THE COORT’LL PUT OFF IT’S DIGNITY AND
COME AND PUNCH YER CRIMSON HEAD.” (Legal man sits doion.)
The overblown amateur poet, who insists
on reading little things lie has dashed off to a
circle of blighted friends, has now even invaded
the pulpit. At Dunedin (N.Z.), three Sundays
ago, an elderly hyperborean paused with an evil
look in his eye just as he was getting to seventhly,
and then, while his accomplice, the beadle,
doubled up as if smit by an inward pain, he read
some 20 verses which he said “he had composed
a few hours previous to the delivery of the dis-
course.” The poem proved on inspection to be a
nebulous and gummy hexameter, but etiquette
forbade the congregation rising to denounce it as
one-horse idiocy, as they would have liked to do ;
they could only suffer in silence, and trust that
the preacher might shortly receive a call to
minister in another sphere, or in a gaol, or any-
where else out of the way. For several months
past the parson has been suspec'od of being a
muse of some kind, and he is said to have even
tried to make money out of his affliction, but his
ability as a poet may be judged by his assets,
which consist chiefly of one misfit hat and a
bruise on his “breadbasket”—(sporting expres-
sion copied from S. M. Herald)—the latter ac-
quired through a fall on the pulpit steps, And
now, when he finds that the local editors won’t
buy up the disease that is preying on his vitals he
has taken to dispensing it gratis to his congrega-
tion, and calls this promulgating the gospel.
* * *
“ W. Beach, the champion sculler, is being
frequently entertained, and has been called upon
to make numerous speeches in returning thanks
for gifts which have been presented to him by
admirers of his skill.” —Cablegram.
“ Independent/’ writing in the Otago
(N.Z.) Daily Time's, says that the churches are
‘each responsible for what happens on its pre-
mises^—each the rightful guardian of the beautiful
and delicate bloom and sweet simplicity of maiden
modesty.” This is sandwiched in apropos of ama-
teur theatricals, and it looks as if the churches
had rather a tough contract on hand. It is a new
way of putting things, too, but it is not very ex-
plicit. It can’t he the Dunedin Church itself—the
mortgaged building with the hideous bell on top—
that is to guard maiden modesty, and if the job is
to be handed over to the members we can only
point out that many of these, being bank swindlers,
uncertificated insolvents, and the like, arc hardly
fitted for the business.
* * *
In a recent issue of the Sydney D.T. “A
Christian Father ” spreads himself thus :
‘‘H men and women lived up to the teachings of Christ
ana practised Christianity, there would be no necessity for a
Divorce -Bui. No Christian man or woman ever figures in a
divorce court. Men and women of different sects seek release
from bondage because they do not fulfil the new law. Let
any man go into the homes of Christian people and see how
happy and cheerful Christian homes are. As for infidels,
they do notx believe in marriage, therefore why do they
trouble about the Divorce Bill?"
Regarded as unalloyed carbonate of ass, this
letter, like Katisha’s front tooth, stands alone
AV hen the writer asserts that “ no Christian man
or woman ever figures in a divorce - court ” it
naturally follows either that he has a speaking
acquaintance with every Christian on earth, and
so gathered his information, or that he is drawing
on his imagination alone, but in either case he
might as well rise up and say that “No Mahom-
medan ever gets the stomach-ache.” His asser-
tion that “As for infidels they do not believe in
marriage,” is such a stupendous hash of ignorance
and stupid falsehood that it may be allowed to
pass in peace ; he may possibly have hunted up
the. whole modern race of infidels and enquired
their vie.Vo regarding matrimony, but there is
something about his remark that stamps it as
being evolved from the depths of his own inner
mule, and it could hardly come from any other
source.
A JINCIE TO JOYCE
Good doctor, your discourse shows plainly
H*w wrong are a lot of our acts ;
We may try to excuse ’em, but vainly—
There's no getting over your facts ;
Our hearts against truth we may harden,
But yet are we bound to admit
That, since Adam was put in that Garden,
Our habits have changed a good bit.
After reading the Word in the Bible
The shame-flush suffuses our cheeks ;
Who would dare Father Adam to libel
By saying he ever wore “ breoks” ?
If the Loard, in His mercy, had meant him
And the rest of mankind to be dress’t,
Don’t we.know He would surely hare sent him
A cut-away coat and a vest ?
Then again, it is certain that Adam
(You put the case neatly and well)
Never went in for whisky and “ had ’em,”
For we read of no Eden Hotel;
Nor, when the first pair were created
(The Book you may patiently search
Through and through, to discover this stated)
Did the Loard ever build ’em a church.
Furthermore, as regarding their dinners,
Their breakfasts, and suppers, and teas—
When the deuce did these guileless beginners
Ever eat what ire eat, if you please ?
Does the Bible refer to them stuffin’
A thick, corner-steak, underdone —
Does the Word ever mention a muffin,
A half-quartern loaf, or a bun ?
But enough ! worthy doctor, we’re joking ;
We want to put things in this light
If the Bible says nought about smoking,
’Tis positive proof it’s all right.
The weed is the fragrant assuager
Of passion, promoter of Lore—
And, by Jingo ! we’re open to wager
Angels smoke in the Kingdom above.
What’s more, worthy doctor, in spite of
Your boast that you live without vice,
There may be just one you’ve lost sight of ;
So, take now a word of advice,
Swop that vice for this. Through the portals,
Pipe in mouth, you are certain to go ;
Oh ! tobacco saves thousands of mortals
From smoking forever—below.
HOLD THE FOR[?]
A mission that’s wanted badly
Has opened in gay Mayfair,
We welcome its advent gladly
They have need of the Gospel there;
The folks in the courts and alleys
Have sins of a certain sort,
But, the nobles (who keep their valets)
Do much the same things, in sport.
The folks in the alleys
(Plain Billys and Sallys)
Their code of morality oftentimes tallies
With that of the nobles (who keep their own
valets) —•
Ho ! Methodists ! Hold the Fort!
The ladies with costly laces
Adorning their gowns of silk,
They get into sad disgraces
(We’re thinking of Charley Dilkc) ;
They turn up their dainty noses
At girls of a “ certain sort”
Till a man in a wig discloses
Their games in a crowded court.
These bunches of roses,
Who turn up their noses,
It happens, at times, a scandal discloses
Strang© things—yes, they’re worse than a fellow
supposes—
Ho, Methodists !: Hold the Fort f
Sing hey for the Mayfair mission,
Converting the dooks and earls,
These people of high position,
Along with their wives and girls :
Lead ’em along to glory,
Let nothing your purpose thwart,
And angels will tell the story
How virtue is found at Court.
The angels in glory
Will whisper the story
Of prayer-saving marquises, haughty and hoary.
And grace being brought to a Primrose League
Tory—
Ho, Methodists ! Hold the Fort !
A happy time ! Enioy it, Beach, »
Make honey while you may ;
Yours now the turn to make a speech,
Bat lessons of experience teach
The truth of what the parsons preach—
All glory must decay.
Deal gently with your little set
(Like Ilanlan, in the past),
Be sure to mention—don’t forget—
That never has a sculler yet
Met better men than you have met—-
Especially the last.
Look on the wine when it is red,
And gaily drink each toast;
For when a year or two has fled
Another king will reign instead—
Bill Beach, the wonder, will bo dead,
And you will be his ghost.
Well, William, many an honoured guest
Loss honour has, and pluck ;
You’ve reason, it must be confess’t,
To place your hand upon your breast
And say, “I’ve done my very best.” —
God bless you, Bill! Good luck !
PERSONAL ITEMS,
Murderer Reynolds died at peace with
mother-in-law.
A Government officer in Western (> Uef
land Doasts (hat he spends £l4O a year in vThisk
Dr. Frost is about the most popular Tow
ville medico. Let’s hope he’s not a “ killing f ros
A hat a farce ! A secret society man ti
before a jury whereof the foreman is a r»rnm;„
member of his guild ! P ® tne
Lord Randolph Churchill, it ia Ca y (
“ has gone incognito to Berlin.” It is juffui w*
Randolph (ravels incog. If he didn’t, ho mi.q, t
mistaken by the Germans for a pug pup.
At Christchurch (N.Z.) a duke’s noplio
has been robbed of £l5O worth of jewellery 1
two cheques of £lOO each. The only Dlan ’ “
had access to the money was the brother-in-law
a baronet. v
The other day an application was made
Judge Williams to vary an order made by". hid
Kerferd. Judge W. declined—said all ho con
do would bo to refer the order back to J u ,i go
Judge Kerferd,” ho remarked, “ possibly mi,],
stands his order ; I don t.”
Against the crimes of F. Horton for
agent, of Young, N.S.W., it is only fair to’set o
that he was “a strict attendant at church cm
active in the Y.M.C. A., and a prominent lead
of the social purity movement.” Our oriminn
are seldom wholly depraved.
By the day coach, on Monday week, tl
“Escaped Nun ” left Campbelltown for Illawarr
seated side by side with a real live Nun, dressed
the captive garb of her order. The pair spok
never a word, but the Great Eastern couldn’t ho
one half of what they thought.
According to W. J. Clarke, Bart., jus
after Graham Berry was presented to the Queei
she said, “What beautiful eyes that Australia
gentleman has !” Graham has evidently just los
his chance. Had he gone to England five yeai
ago he might have made a real “ mash.”
Thusthe Ass(N. S. W.) Tkibune : “Parks
ment has voted £lOOO to the widow ofthelat
Marcus Clarke. People—” [the Yass people are, n
doubt, referred to] —“ are wondering what on cart
the deceased author ever did to merit this pos
thumous compliment. He was simply a fifth-rat
author of no conspicuous ability.”
About 35 years ago Mr. John Christi
Aitken, a Goulburn (N.S.W.) squatter, whil
visiting N.Z., in a casual off-hand way invede
£420 in Christchurch land. Portion of this lan
was auctioned the other day, and realised £80,00:
which, with the balance to follow, goes to Erg
land to be spent by the absentee heir”
A week or two ago a Sydney District Com
menial went up to the reporters 1 ox, and said I
one of the scribes : “ His Honor desires me to sn
that he is very much dissatisfied with the repoi
which appears in your paper this morning.” “Tel
His Honor,” said the reporter in a voice loyi
enough to be heard all over the court, “ that lan
very much dissatisfied with the judgment she gav
yesterday.” His Honor snorted.
Maryborough (Q.) boasts of a reverent
daisy, who is at once a parson, a journalist, and
member of the defence force, and thrives on thi
mixture of hosannah, bayonets, and gore. Un
happily, however, when travelling either in h'
parsonic or journalistic capacity ho donned hi
uniform and temporarily escaped paying the rail
way fare. As this was termed “having” the Go
vernment he was let in for a £1 fine.
While the “ Vagabond ” was admiring tlic
beauties of York Minster a verger kept movini
him on. In vain did the Vag. protest against sue
sacrilege. “I am informed,” he explains, “ tha
the reason a stray visitor/ is discourteously trealci
is that he is looked upon as a possible dynamiter.
This is too much. If the verger had reckoned u
Julian as a wineamiter we could have congratu
lated the ruffian upon his penetration.
A Queensland beak in the far and fiery
West is passionately devoted to sport. Goa
shooting in the main streets of the town at early
morn is his favourite amusement. To ensure
celerity of movement he waltzes forth to his san-
guinary pastime arrayed in a single garment-u
red shirt of meagre proportions—and carrying Ihe
cartridges in his mouth. The ladies of that
village do not pay their morning calls until they
are assured that the P.M. has gone home.
Dr. Pearson, Bishop of Newcastle, N.SV -•
has accepted the vicarage of Blackburn, England,
reputedly a snug and most excellent billet
and will leave Australia at the end of the year to
toil in the vineyard alongside his patron, Bish< P
■ Moorhouse, late of Melbourne, but now 1
Manchester. The change is apparently owing 0
the shocking lack of funds experienced by I r.
Pearson in his present location. His predecessor,
that rich and speculative ecclesiastic the law
Bishop Tyrrell, left a vast sum of money as an on
dowment for the diocese, but the coin was and str -
ia locked up in pastoral properties, now at so lo"’' 111
obb as to yield little or no revenue. Hence 1 ■
Pearson rolls up his swag and walks.
A man named Roadknight, in New Nor-
folk (Tas.), declined to take delivery of a ca-j-
-consigncd to him from Hobart the other day. f
was simply a coffin, manufactured expressly '
him, with a plate bearing his name and age *
complete. It had been ordered and forwarde ’
a token of gratitude by a young Englishman n
had resided with him for some time. This 5
visited the capita l , where he had a “real
time,” defraying the expenses of his frolic
means of cheques bearing the forged signatm _ .
his host. He wound up by victimising an lin ,
taker, whom he paid for the afcre-mciny t 0
coffin with valueless paper. However, b l 3 ;. n
race is run, and he is now awaiting hi 3 tria.
Hobait Gaol.
When Mr. Kerferd, Victorian AttoinO
General, created a sixth judgeship, and
filled the position himself, every newspaper)
colony howled at him. The name of Kerfer
been so long and so honourably associate
mild jobbery that people might be I ?ar ”P I l
sniffing suspiciously at the new billot-, G- 1 - o j,.
all, there seems to have been nothing so 1 er - fony
bish about the affair. Another judge was
wanted, and on the calm elevation of the
Kerferd is making himself more useful tlKin ‘ o j D t-
previous period in his career. Since his or fli
ment there have been two old justices, Me ; g
and Stawell, superannuated. The last va . g t or jc
filled by a gentleman wearing the truly
name of Thomas A’Beckett. .^ c9
Some years ago the Imperial u .^° ( V oU n-
had made up their minds to confer a poii-
cillorship upon a certain well-known coJo ‘ u po»
tician. The fact was bruited abroad, vv | . voi j f
Henniker Heaton went to seo Lord La


then Colonial Secretary of State, upon the subject.
After referring to the rumour, Henniker asked
Carnarvon if the Government had heard all about
the private life of the political dignitary in ques-
tion Carnarvon didn’t say much, but encouraged
his visitor to speak, whereupon Henniker gave a
full and particular account of a large number of
pnisodes in the life of the individual who was
about to bloom into all the glory of a P.C.-ship.
Then Carnarvon, after asking Henniker to put his
statement into writing, diplomatically explained
that it'was not just then intended to bestow any
rolonial honours, beyond the conferment of a
baronetcy on W. J. Clarke, of Victoria, where-
upon Henniker went straightway to the telcgraph-
ottice and cabled Clarke that a baronetcy was to
be his —which was the first intimation of the fact
received by the Sunbury magnate: hence the
fuss always made by Sir W. J. over Henniker
Heaton when the latter passes through Melbourne.
People may laugh at J. Henniker Heaton, but
they can’t wipe him out. He is “as knowing as a
cartload of wild monkeys,” and as he was clever
enough to succeed in most things in Australia,
where people are tolerably keen, he is bound to
vo far up the ladder in a country where the ruling
power is mainly in the hands of a coterie of pom-
pous fools.
The latest about Mudgee Taylor reaches us
from the Richmond River, where lists bearing the
subjoined heading are being liberally distributed
LIST OF SUBSCRIPTIONS
in aid of a
TESTIMONIAL
to
A. 0. TAYLOR, ESQ., M. P.
Collected by Mr
Wc wonder what is Mudgee’s little game ? Is he
really writing an essay on constitutional law i
Heron, the well-connected Sydney solicitor
who had ’em on toast a little while ago for some-
thing like a cool £lOO,OOO, is still in one of the
N.S.W. Government asylums for the insane. It
is just about time the public got some definite in-
formation, from an unbiassed source, as to the
mental condition of this remarkable individual
who, after carrying out with the dexterity and
unscrupulousness of a Machiavelli countless shady
operations of finance, became mad possibly at
being found out. Lots of men who were just as
mad as Mr. Heron have, in N.S.W., been hanged
by the neck until they were dead. From the fact
that he enquires the name of his visitors and
objects to receive those whom he has reason to
fear, if is evident that Mr.. Heron is not quite so
mad as they try to make him out.
Editor Bulletin. Sir,-—‘Pastor Jefferis,
in abusing “ the Freethought organs,” said “the
creed of those papers was not Socialism proper : it
was religious Nihilism in its darkest and most
revolting shape. They made their appeal to the
diabolical passions of human nature. They joined
obscenity to blasphemy.” Which may or may
not be 'true. But this self-appointed censor
shouldn’t throw stones. So long as the clergy
have billets of £lOOO a year, and hold big fortunes
in suburban land-allotments, and dress in purple
and fine linen, while all the time there are many
unemployed around with starving families, they
(the clergy) are not Christians. A certain poorly-
paid Church of England clergyman, who goes
about in a much-brushed shabbv coat, and who to
my knowledge has deprived himself and his
family of 30s. a week these last four years, in
order that he may support and educate the family
of a man who is now in gaol —that clergyman is a
Christian. Preacher Cocks is a Christian—Preacher
Cocks, the man who is so foolish as to work
hard all the week for three or four pounds—
Who gives away every penny beyond what is re-
quired to keep breath in his body and a coat on
his back —who takes the wretched and the
miserable to his poor home —and who has often,
to the disgrace of Sydney, been kicked and spat
upon as he wheeled about paralysed people in the
park, or to raise funds for them preached open-
air sermons (which were not fully reported in the
bourgeois newspapers)—Preacher Cocks, the
despised, much-laughed-at ranter, with his
absurd collection of queer-coloured religious pic-
tures hanging along the park-railings, is a Chris-
tian, if ever there was one. And the Sisters of
Mercy are Christians, and so, too, is every good
man and woman who gives up everything but
hard work in the interests of the creed they pro-
fess. But what about the Christianity of churches
bossed by uncertificated insolvents? —Yours truly,
Christian Socialist.
A big grizzly bear for Sydney Zoo arrived
last week. He will be asuod to sit for Morpeth in
the N.S.W. Legislative Assembly.
All the railway troubles of N.S.W. are to
be cured by the appointment of a permanent
managing commission of three, with aggregate
annual screws of £7OOO. Since 1875 the number
of employes per mile has increased ; so have the
working expenses, while the receipts have
diminished. The present Minister ascribes this
result to “ political patronage and influence ”—an
officialism for jobbery, swindling, and imbecility.
The only cheering statement made is that a syndi-
cate has offered to pay off the entire debt of
N.S.W. in consideration of the railway system
being handed over to them. We presume that
this offer does not apply to the numberless rail-
ways which are now being given as sops for poli-
tical support. If it does so apply, than the syndi
cate must be a relation of that other syndicate
who went down to Windsor recently with his hair
standing on end and said he had come to marry
the Queen. He was carrying a large knife which
he stated he used for cutting his corns.
A couple of princes have at last struck a
genuine inspiration. It is exhibited in that noble
book, “ The Cruise of the Bacchante.” It refers
to Queensland, and it already threatens to raise
Cooktown and Charters Towers in frenzied revolt
and drench the Far North in purple gore :
** Notwithstanding the prevailing dislike to the hordes of
Chinamen who wish to pour into the land, there is no choice
between resorting to their labour or abandoning all thoughts
of making railways, opening up the interior, and generally
developing the resources of a country so exceptionally
favoured by Nature.”
It takes the brilliant genius of a prince to dis-
cover that Australia is dependent on the depraved
Chinaman for its development ; that Hung Fat
Hi Yah are the only persons who can make
its railways, and that it ha 3 to await the arrival
cf the leprosy-stricken Asiatics to open up the
interior. . The terrific fool who made such an
assertion neither knew where the interior was,
hor how it was to be opened up ; he hardly knew
a Chinaman when he saw one ; he had to ask h s
bear-leader how to spell “ developing and he
did not know whether the country was “ favoured
by Nature,” or whether it was a dried up and
blasted wilderness, until he was taken hold of by a
local fossil who told him that North Queensland
was a great country and only wanted Kanaka
mbour to make it go ahead. Then “ Our Future
King,” concluding that Kanakas came from
Shanghai, sat down and helped to write the fore-
going essay on the Chinaman in Australia.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Drunk ! What did The Bulletin say
last week ?
They have ceased to play “ God Save the
Queen ” at the conclusion of the performances in
Sydney theatres.
Governor Carington has assented to the
“ Davies Supervision Bill.” Wo are glad to see
that an eye is at last to be kept on John.
Either the grog-bar at N.S.W. Parliament
Houses must go or members must be supplied with
knives and revolvers as well as with brandy.
According to the last batch of statistics
issued by the Freetrade Association, N.S.W. has
30,000 artisans distributed over 22,000 workshops.
The N.S.W. Postmaster-General threatens
to close non-paying post and telegraph ofiicos. If
the heads of other Government Departments fol-
low suit, one-half the public buildings will soon be
THE PROPERTY TAX.
LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL: “WELL, YOU SEE, IF YOU WILL GET ON MY GROUND
YOU MUST TAKE THE CONSEQUENCES.”
decorated with shingles bearing the legend, “ This
house to let.” The danger is not imminent, how-
ever.
“Constitutional reasons’’—probably not
unconnected with digestion—prevented Lord Car-
ington from attending the N.S.W. Eight Hours
dinner.
The Queensland Government have a large
number of railway contracts on hand, and they
are buying all the rails, not in Free-trade England,
but in Protectionist Germany.
The fact that the Sydney D.T. allows a
correspondent a whole column wherein to advo-
cate The Bulletin’s policy of Australian Repub-
lican Federation is a sign of the times.
The appointment of Mr. .Tames Fletcher,
who has heavy mining interests, a 3 N.S.W.
Minister of Mines, is bringing forth the fruits
which might reasonably have been expected.
The N.S.W. revenue deficiency will, at
the end of the year, certainly be £2,000,000 ; in all
likelihood it will be £2,250,000. G. A. Lloyd,
M.P. —and he has always been a great financier-
says it will be £3,250,000.
Vanity Fair says ‘ ‘ Lord Rosebery has
been a great deal too free in the bestowal of
Iv. C.M.G.-ships ! ” Rosebery has been in the
colonies and knows the value of the bauble. You
can’t wonder at a man letting people cart away
rubbish.
Mr. Gresley Lukin stands best chance in
the contest for the representation of Lithgow in
the N.S.W. Assembly. But, should the other
Protectionists now announced persist in going to the
poll, Mr. Hurley, Freetrader and Parkesite, will
probably be elected.
A deep political conspiracy is brewing to
oust Mr. Mackenzie, Examiner of N.S.W. Coal-
fields, from hi 3 position. Mr. Mackenzie has in-
censed several well-known members of Parliament
by having, in the discharge of his duty to the
public, frustrated a colossal job.
Messrs. M'Murtrie, Kellerman and Co.,
and Mr. John Hunter, bootmakers, of Sydney,
who employ in all 500 men, assert that they do
not want Protection, as they have got on splendidly
without it. However, it must not be forgotten
that both hoii3es import heavily.
It is now proposed to petrify Queen Vic-
toria's .lubilee by founding an Imperial (Irnlo-
Colonial) Jubilee Institute in London. The objects
of the establishment are not stated, but they are
to be of a jubilising character. Canada promises
to subscribe liberally, and the plug hat is going
round.
In Saxony the female lacemakers work
about 12 hours daily and good hands make half-a-
crown a week. When these people ask for 3?.
they are labelled “ Anarchists,” and when Eng-
land buys their good 3 to the confusion of native
workers, who can’t live on Ijd. a day, that is
called Freetrade.
In reply to Mr. Davies in the N.S.W.
Assembly, the Minister for Works said that no
forged Government tram-tickots had been dis-
covered. Very likely indeed. It would bo so
easy to counterfeit the tickets now in circulation
that if forgery were resorted to it would be almost
impossible to distinguish the genuine article from
the “factitious.
Burglar’s tools—the handy hard-working
jemmy and the insinuatingly persuasive skeleton-
key—are, according to the Melbourne police,
mostly manufactured within the walls of Pent-
ridge prison. We hope that the man who in-
vented the electric pocket-drill will get out in
time to put up for Parliament next election. We
don’t see why the gaols should monopolise intellect
to the deterioration of the House.
Another N.S.W. “ wild-cat ” railway.
The traffic in the Burrowa district is at present
carried on by two teams, and the men in charge
say they cannot make wages, but, nevertheless, a
“ job ” railway is to be constructed. The object
of the line, of course, will be “to tap a great
agricultural district” or something of the kind, but
as the locality has failed to pay a dividend on 20
bullocks the outlook is exceedingly blank.
The man who is “estimating” for the
Sydney E. News the members of the present
N.S.W. Parliament, says that, politically, Jaw-
bone Neild “ irresistibly reminds one of a bird
that would be the result of a cross between a jay
and a peacock, with a dash of the native companion
thrown in.” Jawbone has never suggested any
comparison of the kind to us. We have always
regarded him as an educated magpie distantly re-
lated to the Soudan donkey.
Dan. O’Connor “ erupted ” at the Eight-
Hours’ Banquet, and started by bringing back his
hearers to Lord Carington’s “grand and moighty
career in England. Daniel was pretty promptly
hauled off his eulogium on “ our old nobility ’ for
a few score pairs of hings put a stopper on
his slobber by cries of “We don’t want ’em!
“ What rot! ” and a few more solid truths which
turned the stream of “the Jaynil’s” eloquence
into a less dangerous channel.
At the N.S.W. Eight-hour Demonstration
Mr. Hopkins, who replied for “ The Industries of
N.S.W ” created an uproar by stating that ‘ the
condition of affairs in the colony was so bad I hah
Mr. Norton (the N.S.W. Trades’ delegate in Lon-
don) had simply understated the case.” Sir
Saul Samuel, he added, might contradict the state-
ments of Mr. Norton, but then Sir Saul had not
been in Australia for some years, while Mr. Norton
had just left it, and, therefore, the latter was far
the better authority of the two.
Itniploying Chinamen -on ocean steamers
is an upside-down piece of economy after all.
They are cheap enough, but they have a nasty
deceitful way of eloping for the nearest goldfield
when their ship arrives in port, and lotting the
captain pay the poll-tax for] the dirty heathens
whom he has unwittingly loft behind. Two steamers
manned by Mongolians recently left Newcastle in
one day, and as 17 yellow men were missing, this
little piece of economy cost £l7O. At this r'ato, it
will soon bo an absoluto saving to employ some
kind of men whom nature did not design for
scarecrows, in place of those lying spectros from
Shanghai.
A certain Mr. Simpson, of the Viet. Legis-
lative Council, is so angry because soma of his
envious] rivals call him a “ Conservative.” .Simp-
son assured the House that he is a democrat and a
Liberal. Simpson backed up thisassertion by men
tioning that “ the gangrene of manhood suffrage
is eating into the vitals of the community.”' An
out-and-out Rad. like Simpson would make an ex-
cellent Agent-General, when Lho Republican Sir
Graham Berry retires with a pile. But, by tho
way, ho bears a name which is painfully sugges-
tive of sailing under false colours. The water that
London dairymen religiously add to their milk i 3
known as “ Simpson” in the trade.
Te Whiti, the Maori prophet, has been
sentenced to three months’ gaol and £lOO fine for
creating a disturbance. The object of his demon-
stration was to defend tho last territories of his
race against tho shamoless greed of tho whitos ;
he did not kill anybody, or fire a single shot, or
spill one drop of blood ; he did not even strike a
blow, but silently blocked the way with his fol-
lowers, and stopped tho progress of the surveyors
and miscellaneous thieves who came to take pos-
session of the plains. When arrested he merely
uttered the oracular sentiment, “ The egg is
blown—the potato is cooked.” When he hoard of
the line he was to pay the old prophet spoke once
more, saying “ The bank is busted.”
Tlio freetrade Sydney D.T. exultantly
publishes a long letter from Sir Louis Mallet, a
Cobden Club deity. The letter contains only ono
argument—that the Amsrican Congress is demoral-
ised by lobbying and log-rolling, and that this is
the result of Protection. We would like to know
then what is the cause of the utter demoralisation
of the N.S.W. “den of thieves?” It must be
Freetrade, we presume. No Congress that ever
gathered of Protectionist America was, in point
of corruption, fit to be named in |hc same century
with the N.S.W. Assembly. As tho cause of
Free-trade is utterly and hopelessly played out all
over Australia, the D.T. had better “ own up ” and
cease working a dead horse. Their present, fiscal
policy will soon not yield enough to support even
a monthly handbill.
An Australian Government is supposed to
be a father, a grandmother, and an uncle to the
people, and this threefold job grows rather trouble-
some at times. At a little township in S.A. the
people were horrified a month ago to find a dead
cow lying 100 yards from their water supply, and
they at once wrote to Adelaide requesting that an
inspector of nuisances should be appointed and
the deceased female removed. The letter mis-
carried, however; seven days passed, and the
cow asserted itself strongly. Then an indignation
meeting was held, and they were just passing a
resolution in which cow and rage and inspector
and swear wore all mingled together when some-
one observed that smoke was rising from tho car-
case. An ignorant lout of a new churn who didn't
know his privileges as an Australian citizen had
piled a heap of wood on top of it and burned it to
a skeleton.
There is a Literary Association in Mel-
bourne, and the savants meet once a week to dis-
cuss large subjects. Just at the present they are
handling a question of considerable Australasian
interest —Dominion of the World f*r English-
speaking people. Now that this association has
got on the job the prospeots of the Dominion look
healthy. What might have remained only a dream
promisos to become a glorious reality. One mem-
ber of the association has worked out a scheme
which, if adopted, will bring the universe under
the sway of English-speaking people in less than
no time at all. This is his scheme. Tho Prince
of Wales must sit upon a throne at Calcutta,
while our revered friend, the Duke of Edinburgh,
acts as King of England. The Queen is out of
this, you notice, because the sapient schemer is
calculating upon her early decease. If his cal-
culations should not —but we must think over all
this at our leisure,
“ He beats his wife,” yelled Mr. Gibbes,
M.L.A., in the N.S.W. Legislative Assembly the
other day during a speech by the gentle Shepherd,
who was speaking on the Divorce Bill, and then,
when Mr. Melville jumped up to protest, Gibbes
adroitly backed out by explaining that he had only
meant to convey that the other man “ excelled”
his wife. He never meant to imply that he flogged
her. Mr. Gibbes’ unnecessary remark is a weak
imitation of one made by Serjeant Ballan-
tine, but the serjeant did not share the small poli-
tician’s frenzied eagerness to explain himself away,
Hawkins, Q.C., was demanding a fiat “yes” or
“ no ” from one of the great lawyer's witnesses
and when Ballantine interposed by saying that
some questions did not admit of a categorical
reply he was challenged to put a query to his
antagonist which could not be answered in one
syllable. Thereupon the serjeant looked his
enemy ft-aight in his brassy countenance and in-
quired : “ Have you finished beating your wife
yet? ” Hawkins is a judge now, and Ballantine
is dead, but that question has never been answered.
Parkes’ recent reference to what a Hpiglish
gentleman would have done under the circum-
stances in which Premier Jennings now finds him-
self reminds us of the following, which appears in
a Queensland paper as an extract from the
Chicago Citizen “ The English have stuck
together as a unit against all outsiders,
while the Celts of both Ireland and Scot-
land never presented an entirely united front to
the Saxon invaders. Thus it ha 3 come to pas 3
that the slowest, dullest, most selfish and mo3t
arrogant element of the population of the British
Empire dominates all the other elements. Hodge
is the master of Sandy, of Patrick (under protest),
and of David, and yet, man for man, on any field
or in any forum, the Scotchman, the Irishman, or
the Welshman is more than a match for his slow-
miftded and thick-hided boss. Parkes’ bumptious
jibe also recalls the story about the “Brummagem ”
School Board, who objected to entertain an appli-
cation from a Scotch teacher on the ground that “it
was absurd to import a man from a country where
the people did not speak English to teach in an
English school.”


“In the Vineyard.”
JAMES MANCHESTER MOORHOUSE (log): “PEARSON, MY FRIEND, I AM INDEED GLAD YOU HAVE COME BACK TO HELP ME IN THE VINEYARD.
THE RIGHT REVEREND PEARSON (confidentially) : WELL, JAMES, THE FACT IS THERE WAS REALLY NOTHING FOR IT BUT THE VINEYARD. THE SHEARING’S
NOW QUITE OVER IN NEWCASTLE, THEY’VE REDUCED THE RATES, AND WHEN YOU’VE KNOCKED TOGETHER A BIG CHEQUE YOU CAN T GET IT.


Studying for the Ministry.
‘M*.
Mf. Abbdtt said ? “ To'
fit a mail for a seat in M
Parliament presently, it
wo’uld be necessary that Ssl
he should be skilled in wt
the use of the gloves
and had served an ap-
prenticeship under
Larry Foley.
THE POT AND THE KETTLE.
Sir Pat. : “ I might
laugh at some Mounte-
bank* trick of the honor-
able member ” (meaning
Mr. Shepherd).
Mr. Shepherd : “ I
never blackened my ace.”
Sir Pat. : “ Whoever
Hays I blackened my face
is a liar.”
( Mr. Wisdom is ejected {
he termed “brute "
!. “Mr. Blotton (Parkes)\
had no hesitation in saying
that he had used the expres-
sion ‘ Brutal Ministry ’ m its
Pickwickian sense. (Hear,
hear.) He was bound to ac
knowledge that personally he had
the highest regard and esteem for the
honorable gentleman. He had merely
him a Brutal Minister in
gpp^^f > | c kw'ickian point of view.” (Hear,
I Mr. Pickwick (Jennings) felt
IU U j h £ ratified h y t}le can-
-1 ~a nd fed explanation of
/his honorable friend. He begged it
to be at once understood that his own
had frequently been
; merely intended to bear a Pickwickian
; construction.” (Cheers).
{fl/f lsee
nl[ ,<,
r/j
■fo-MW-
ThllS /S /7
Jv^urnL
/k^HV/y
V 7R > / I
H. Parkes : “ Them
ffly sentiments, ”
Wisdom " Mine,
too,”
The Speaker said that
orders had been given to
pay attention to Mr. Wi s .
doro.
Things Political.


Society
On Thursday afternoon, the 9th inst., a
large number of people assembled at Government
House, Sydney, when Lady Carington was “ at
home.” Some of the young people played tennis,
while others looked on or strolled about. Tea and
coffee wore served on the verandah, where Lady
Carington received her visitors, among whom
were noticed Judge and Mrs. Forbe3, Mr. Adams
(Tasmania), Mrs. and Miss Lamb, Miss Bloom-
field, Mr. and Mrs. Kirwan, Mrs. and Miss Hogg,
Mrs. Wylie and Miss Robinson, Mrs. Robilliard,
the Misses Busby, Colonel Greenfield, Mrs. and
Miss Joseph, Mr. Duff Gordon, Mrs. and Miss
Robertson, Mrs. H. E. Cohen, Mre. M’Quade,
Miss Moriarty, Mr. Burnside, Mrs. and the Misses
Ward, and many others.
* * *
Lord and Lady Carington and as much
fashion as could find the “ needful ” attended the
sixth concert of the Philharmonic Society at
Sydney Exhibition-building last week. The piece
was “ Moses in Egypt,” an oratorio which always
draws, though whether owing to the music, or
Moses, or the children of Israel in swallow tail
coats, wo can’t say. “Moses in Egypt” has
already been criticised to death, so it is only
necessary to mention that Mr. Vernon Reid ap-
peared as Amenophis, Mr. Gainor as Pharaoh,
and Mr. Donovan as an angel.
* * *■
Sydney musical criticism makes rapid
social strides, and will soon have identified its
style with that of the Court Circular. In the
S.M. Herald’s report of a late fashionable con-
cert we were treated, not so much to an account
of the performance as to the vice-regal advent,
the vice-regal reception, and the vice-regal atti-
tude in general. There are advantages in this, as
not taxing the brain of writer or reader, but we
suggest that the process be perfected. Details as
to the vice-regal opinion would be a serious help
and comfort to those anxious minds who never
feel quite certain what views they ought to hold—
Be still! In patient hope we wait,
And yawn a weary while,
Expecting—for the hour is late
The Caringtonian smile.
Hurrah ! They come ! The Anthem rings,
To stately seats they glide ;
Now we shall know who fitly sings,
Whose hand the bow can guide.
Do Saville’s notes ring false or true ?
Hath Fabris done her best ?
Be silent ! not for me or you
To praise or blame with zest.
In vain doth Schubert thrill our veins,
Or Liszt our ears beguile,
We wait, ere gushing o’er their strains,
The Caringtonian smile.
* * *
N.S.W. Royal Society gave a most agree-
able and fashionably-attended conversazione in
the great hall of Sydney University on the 6th
inst. who was there, was robed
an a beautiful toilette which was surely Parisian.
It consisted of a long train and bodice of dull red
velvet sprigged with a peculiar shade Qf sage-
green, around the front short drapery (which fell
over a pale-blue satin petticoat) were tiny bows of
sage-green velvet ribbon, with drops attached to
each. The demi-sleeves were of fine old lace
caught with a sage-how. Her ladyship, as usual,
wore magnificent diamonds.
* * *
It is rumoured a ball is to bo given at
Government House, Sydney, early in November.
* * *
Sir Patrick and Lady Jennings have issued
cards for a garden party to be held at Colebrooke,
Double Buy, on the loth inst.
* * *
Thus a correspondent : —“ Lady Caring-
ton ha 3 upset colonial notions of what is de
riaucur by wearing a white or pale-tinted lall
on horseback. Many remarks have, by the way,
been made in regard to “ Our Own-Queen of
Beauty’s ” rather insecure seat in the pigskin, in
England, when two sisters ride together, one of
them sits with her right foot in the stirrup and
her left knee over the horn. Well, when Lady
Carington learnt she probably rode usually upon
the left side—hence her shaky appearance when
she reverses matters. Why she need reverse Ido
not know, for she has saddles made both ways. I
have seen her ride upon the left side and her seat
looks much firmer.”
* * *
Even the execution of the wretched man
Revnolds was under Vice-regal patronage to the
extent, anyhow, that the elite from Government
House Tomnoddyishly turned up, determined to
Obtain all the colonial experience possible before
returning to the hash-houses of Bloomsbury—we
mean Belgraviah. In the last act of this Ne wtown
drama we would have some difficulty m deciding
whether we would prefer to he the wretched man
who was about to die or the gaping crew of
“ fashionable gentlemen ” who went, to see his last
awful struggles. The Evening News which,
since ‘ ‘ the daughter of a powerful Duke began to
write for it, has distinctly become the organ of
the aristocracy, carefully distinguishes between
the two different classes o t persons who went to
“ sample ” Reynolds’ death agony. Regarding the
commonplace crowd, the News loftily remarks
that
“It was painfully apparent that those present and waiting
for the fulfilment of the law’s decree were actuated more by
a desire to see the hanging of the naan than to Witness an act
of retribution.”
But a few lines further down we learn that there
were also in the gaol
“ Plantain Gascoigne, A.D.C., and several other equally dis-
tinguished gentlemen, who doubtless attended with a view to
profiting by the lesson here to be attorned.
We never did worship Government House, hut we
confess that it is somewhat of a revelation to learn,
on the authority of a paper contributed to by
psere3ses, that the most distinguished ornaments
of the vice-regal court are, after all, made of such
ordinary clay as to be capable of profiting by the
spectacle of a man with a broken neck and his
head in a bag, dangling at the end of a soaped
rope.
The malicious demand made by the Sydney
E News and T. and C. Journal proprietary for
a '“ satire” on the Union Club hall eventuated in
a moil disastrous fizzle. The Nooze people, pos-
sibly savage at not having been invited to join the
I circle of “ exTclusives ” on the occasion, offered a
£lO prize for something in the gall and wormwood
line which would make the gilded bachelors curl
up and die. Rut when the ‘‘ satires submitted
were opened, it was found that every one of thorn
contained a most malignant attack on Alfred him-
self, who thereupon decided to take no further
action in the matter and at once swore all his
staff to eternal secrecy on a copy of the Jernil.
As Alfred never yet did anything of an entirely
original character, it may be mentioned that the
“satire” idea was probably derived from an
occurrence which took place in Sydney many years
ago. When Prince Alfred visited the colony a
number of “exclusive” ladies quietly arranged
among themselves that he should be invited to a
dance in the fine hall of the Australian Museum,
which building had then just been completed, and
that no one of whom they did not approve should
have entree on the occasion. However, it soon
got abroad that these high-bred dames intended
to keep H.R.H. all to themselves, and the result
was a savage set of verses in Bell’s Life (then
edited by Mr. Thomas Garrett) which completely
“broke up,” on the delicate question of pedigree,
the monopolistic matrons aforesaid. Whereupon
there was an attempt made to cowhide the in-
genious Thomas.
* * *
By one of those strange coincidences
which are eternally happening, H.M.S. “ Nelson”
is found in need of repair at the close of the Sydney
season. The Admiral and his officers also
probably find themselves in need of repair. As
the flagship is always well to the fore on Mel-
bourne Cup Day, it would seem that the move-
Iments of the Queen’s Navee are in no small extent
dependent on the Sporting Calendar.
Mr. Wallington, private secretary to Lord
Carington, is to be Colonel Bingham’s best man,
and left on the 12th inst. for Melbourne to carry
out his engagement. Colonel Bingham left on the
Bth to carry out his.
* * *
One of the Sydney clubs, a well-known
pot-house, is in rather a tight place just now.
Things have been going from bad to worse, and a
“call ” is anticipated.
* *
We are as friendly to girls as most people
—except the clergy ; they are awfully friendly.
We went to their annual festival, at Wests
Academy on the 7th inst., and had tea with the
girls- and the Bishop ! At 8 o’clock Lady Caring-
ton, attended by Captain Gascoigne, appeared.
Her ladyship was a little late for tea, but they d
kept some warm for her. Then the good Primate
spoke, and what he said was a little remarkable.
His words were : “The Girls’ Friendly Society did
not aim at any great or visible work but at the
formation and development of character by per-
sonal contact.” The hint was taken, and promis-
cuous osculation could be heard throughout the
hall Lady Carington then distributed tickets to
the successful girls-soup tickets-and shook each
one by the hand ! —think of that . Then there
was singing—more “ personal contact —more
fervour —more tea —more charity the lights grew
dim —more —but we left.
* * *
Our Melbourne contingent of beauty and
fashion have gone back to the cabbages of the
South after fulfilling a number of highly success-
ful engagements to dance. Some, who are prepared
to stand by their word, will return to Sydney, ready
to marry the men who have asked them. Others
are going into training for the Melbourne Cup
season and Flemington lawn. Taken as a whole,
they have been fairly successful with the corn-
stalks, about 10 per cent, having got married
another 15 per cent, are engaged bona-fide; but
25 per cent, got engaged just to do the kissing,
and then broke the crust on the railway platform.
* * *
A wholesome precedent was established
last week by the Bairnsdale (Vic.) jury, who gave
to a woman named Gray £lOOO damages in an ac-
tion for breach of promise. Thi3 iniured and
interesting creature’s case was that in her late
husband’s lifetime she had been seduced by defen-
dant Dr. Morgan, to whom she had had a child.
After the husband’s death the doctor renewed his
intimacy and promised her marriage, but as he
didn’t “toe the mark” within “a reasonable time
(it would be interesting to know an adulterous
widow’s definition of the latter term) she entered
an action. Defendant pleaded—(l) no Promise,
and (2) that plaintiff had been intimate with other
men The jury gave a verdict for £lOOO, the full
amount claimed. If a married woman who ad-
mits having committed adultery, is thus entitled
to come into court as soon as she has “ planted
the “old man,” whom her illicit amours have
perhaps driven to the tomb, and claim the full
sympathy of the Victorian law, all we can say is
that we’d rather live in Timbuctoo than in Gipps-
land. That the law should give a woman £lOOO
under such circumstances seems monstrous.
Mr. T. B. Hannaforcl, of Auckland, N.Z.,
is a matrimonial agent and a man of energy. In
his circular he calls himself a “ vehicle -mean-
ing probably, a wheelbarrow, or a hear3e, but
that is only his modesty. He also says that he
has been “the unaided vehicle ” in bringing to-
gether 131 couples—and yet not one of these
couples has killed him. His business appears to
lie chiefly in the country, where a farmer may be
living “20 or 50 miles away from where a bevy of
damsels are stationed,” and regarding that farmer
ho wails thus:—“Were the out-settler to leave
his farm to seek a wife in some distant city or
district, what is to become of his flocks and herds,
his house, and all his belongings in the interim ?
Will his cattle feed themselves 2 Would his crops
be self-gathered, or his field self-tilled ?” Nobody
appears to think they would, so Hannaford sup-
plies this distant hungering soul with a wife, and
in his capacity as a vehicle charges a fare of £5 m
advance. lie also makes rigid inquiry into char-
acter and undertakes to detect all practical
iokers and those of a morbid complexion. _ When
the iokers and the people with a complexion are
found out he “makes Auckland a perfect Hades
for them to reside in ”—in other words, he deals
out heaven at £5 a head and supplies the other
place gratis.
* * *
This is a “true bill.” The' champion
financier of Australia lives somewhere up South m
N.S.W. His name is not Dibbs, but it ought to
be. His only assets consist of elegant graces and
a Byronic eye, and under these circumstances it
occurred to him that it would be a good thing to
woo the daughter of a wealthy squatter-fellow in
the vicinity. But, though he wooed with vigour,
he felt that it was impossible to travel on his
Byronic eye alone ; it was necessary to show some
signs of a resumption of specie payments to con-
ciliate the mercenary pa, and a deep scheme was
concocted for this purpose. The financier was
taken ill in the lady’s drawing-room and fell on
the floor with that dull, sickening thud we have
all heard about in the Evening News, and when
brought back to consciousness he felt he was
dying. Accordingly, a friend —of whom, by the
way, he had, eight years previously, borrowed £5
—was sent for to make his will, and with the family
gathered round his couch he feebly bequeathed
two silver-mines to the deeply moved parent, a
gold-mine to one of the daughters, and to the
other —the lady of his choice—he left two Gwydir
River stations, enough shares to swamp the Sand-
hurst Exchange, and half a city in house-property.
The amazed individual to whom he owed the £o
was meanwhile singing internally “ Let some
droppings fall on me,” but to his disgust he found
himself forgotten. The dying man afterwards
took a turn for the better, and is now quite re-
covered, but we regret to say is still single. The
lady is married, however, and her suitor thinks ot
altering his will.
* * *
There is in Sydney a very well-known
heavy swell, a fine, well-set up young fellow, who is
so idiotic as to dye his moustache, the original
colour whereof is understood to have been a
brilliant magenta. However, so far nobody on the
block” has been deceived except the swell him-
self. Well, the other night, prior to attending a
party, this elaborate masher sampled a new brand
of dye. In the height of the festivities he and a
blonde young lady of substantial proportions re-
tired for a walk through the grounds. When they
returned she, also, wore a moustache.
* * *
There have of late been some queer
goings-on at the Sydney Girls’ High School. It is
alleged that there is existent in that institution a
system of—well, kleptomania, which much effects
the whereabouts of coins, rings, and bangles.
Apropos, enquiries are just now being made m
regard to , a Ly-ee-Moon wreck subscription in-
augurated in the school some time ago.
* * *
She was a bride, and when the wedding
had processed and the honeymoon gone, she was
invited to an afternoon dance on board a man-of-
war. Would you believe it, she for a long time
insisted on going in her brilal robes! Fancy
climbing up the ladder in white satin shoe 3 and a
tulle veil ! But the be3t of the jest was that she
and her party had to come some part of the way
in the train too. She was unsophisticated although
she came from Fiji, but she didn’t wear her “ white
funeral of the maiden life ” get-up that time not
if they knew it.
* * *
At Charleville (Q.) there is not a woman
who is not thirsting to shed the gore of the loqal
editor and lay him in the cold, cold grave. He
came down to his office on the morning after a
fancy-dress ball, and found that every lady who
had been present had sent a description of her
dress. Then he grew wild and summed them up
ag “ a staid matron in low-necked dress, gloves,
and perspiration; a married lady in blue sash,
lavender kids, and temper ; another young lady m
blue and love ; a sweetly pretty girl in an engage-
ment ring; a damsel in boots; an elderly party
with green plaits; a good wearing female in
vinegar and front teeth, —and a lot more of the
same kind.” Hence these tears.
* * *
Says an English paper Among other
anomalies of the present day, it seems that the
roughest and most repulsive work in some of the
largest hospitals is done by ladies. 1 n theory one
of the noblest occupations, yet in practice most
wearisome, if not occasionally appalling, the pro-
fession of nursing happens to be fashionable, and
has passed from Sairey Gamp to women of educa*
Ition and refinement. In romances, their vocations
may consist Of smoothing pillows, cooling fevered
brows, and in placing Bible 3 and jelly by the side
of grateful sufferers ; but in plain reality, the
task [of washing, dressing, feeding, and tending
diseased paupers and maimed toilers, many ol
whom have never taken a bath in their lives,
seems about the last occupation to be chosen by
any woman with a chance of doing something
different.”
* * *
An unfeeling father of Lilydale, Vic.,
prosecuted his daughter’s “ masher for wilful
trespass under a statute setting forth that any
person caught on. property and being darned if
he’ll leave when requested by the owner to do so,
shall be fined, provided the offender is not in pur-
suit of game. It was shown that the young man
would insist on loving the old ogre’s daughter,
despite notices, snap-traps, and high walls with
fractured bottles growing on them, and was fre
quently seen with his arm tied round her waist
leading her about. The masher’s attorney pleaded
that his client was in pursuit of game—the little
dear, to wit. But the jaundiced magistrates
charged Romeo £5.
* * *
We are humbly trying to draw the atten-
tion of Sydney pavement-trotters to the fact that
a good band performs for nothing every Wednes-
day in the Botanic Gardens from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
It’s a cheaper show than the “ block, and the dude
can show himself just as well as in George-street.
Why can’t Lady Carington send the nurse and the
children, and so make the show “ fashionable ?
I* * *
Colonel Hashmore, a Victorian volunteer
cflicer who keeps a country store and serves behind
the counter in a white apron, one morning received
a letter addressed to “Mr. Hashmore.” “Mr.
Hashmore!” he indignantly exclaims, putting a
cork into a treacle-bottle with one hand while
with the other he samples cask-butter on the head
of a pin—* ‘ Mr. Hashmore. What hinsult is this 2
I’ll teach that surveyor-man that I ’old ’er
Majesty’s commission, and am by legal right an
Esquire. Jones, when you have done serving that
lady with the starch, please take those two eggs
round to the Shearer’s Arms. The last half-dozen
we sold ’em contained four bad ’uns.”
* * *
A gentleman with, a wooden leg and a
grievance stumped into the Melbourne District
Court, last week. The grievance was of an ama-
tory nature. He professed to have bribed a buxom
widow into a promise of marriage. In exchange
for a diamond ring and a gold chain the buxom
one was to bestow on him her heart and hand. As
the heart and hand were not forthcoming, the
well-timbered plaintiff demanded restitution of
the jewellery. It is needless to mention that his
suit was unsuccessful. What chance does a
wooden-legged man stand against a buxom widow ?
Nor will we blame the lady. After having enjoyed
the society of a husband with two legs, we could
scarcely expect her to appreciate a wooer with
one. Occasionally we hear of a spiritual-minded
woman who rises superior to fleshly .considera-
tions. There was the case of Mr. Kavanagh, for
many years a remarkable figure in the House of
Commons. Mr. Kavanagh was an engaged
young man when he met with an accident neces-
sitating the amputation of his four limbs. His
fianc&e took what was left of him without a mur-
mur. When a lady friend expressed surprise,
Mrs. Kavanagh loftily explained: “I married
my husband, I didn’t marry his arms and legs.
But Mrs. K. was an inexperienced young thing.
A buxom widow might not see things in the same
light.
* * *
It is pretty well-known that the misfor-
tunes of a certain recently-convicted embezzler
are at least partly due to the existence in his
town of a “ladies’ gambling-school” of which a
solicitor’s wife is the high-priestess.
* * *
A crowd assembled at the Cathedral,
Hobart, on 28th ult. to witness the marriage of
Miss Florence Westbrook to Mr. C. H. Westwood,
the recently appointed secretary of the Tasmanian
Racing Club. The bride wore a remarkably hand-
some creme merveilleux dress, ornamented witfl
pearls (the gift of Mr. Joseph Clarke), and looked
very pretty. The Misses Fysh (2), and three little
nieces of the bride, who were bridesmaids, all ap-
peared in soft grey costumes, with bonnets w
match, the Quaker tint, contrasting very dis
tinctly with the bride’s dre3S. It wa3 a ' L }
pretty wedding.”
* * *
The Mayor of Hobart, Mr. J. G. Davies,
gave a juvenile fancy-dre33 ball in the local ex >
bition building, on Ist inst., which was an u
qualified success. “Marie Stuart, Pn
the Puritan Maiden,” “ Parthenia,’ and awj
Robsart” were well represented by Riven
of various ages, while some of the sterner -
donned very handsome costumes for the ocoasi •
Two youths who personated “ Buddhist M .
cants” created quite a sensation by their no
attire ; while “ Monaco’s ” cards made him apy
a 3 agile as a telegraph pole. The affair P a ® s
very pleasantly, but was scarcely worthy oi
three columns of gush that appeared m tne _
morning’s Mercury—His Worship’s own pap
by the way.
* * *
The annual N.S.W. Eight Hours’ banquet
was held at Carington Hall on 6th inst. ® -they
members of the Assembly were present, du
behaved on the whole like gentlemen, n
dozen more kindly stayed away. I h ® to f r^che s
much the same as usual; so were the sp d
Mr. Brown, who gave “ The Ministry, 01 " he y
the owners of the £2,000,000 deficit as it
were half angels and more than halt t j,e
Mr. Copeland, in reply, mildly hinted tn
Government was the best ever known, ana
c insisted of several saints and a chel ' ',]¥■
Long went further and said that the pre-
Lament, where nose 3 are broken ana e
knocked against the wall, ‘ would „ j[ r ,
favourably with any of its predecessor-
Gillespie dropped into poetry, and meu alto .
“verdure” rhyme with “labour 1 ’ },jcli
gether, barring the awful scarcity ot y*. m cifi
marked some of the speeches, the entei
was a success.
SUMMER IS COMING.
Portrait of our best girl, drawn just before
she left England.
Change effected by the Australian
sun-glare in the expression of the
same young lady.


4 OCLOCK TEA
Mr. A. Starkey, of Smithfield Grange, Coogee, is short
to be married to Miss Maude Pearce, of The Willow
Randvviek.
The friends of. Colonel Bingham, R. A,, entertained him
dinner on the Bth inst., previous to his leaving for Melbour
to be married.
The mar-iage is shortly to take place of Mr. R. E. Phillii
of Tyrnyrhoe Hall, Denbighshire, .North Wales, and M:
Black, of Parramatta.
At M'Laren Yale a party turned out to “tin-kettle”
newly-married couple. The father-in-law shot one of tl
kettler-s, and is now in gaol.
The frauderies at Darlinghurst has drawn well, a numb
of fashionable ladies attending to see those dear frauds—tl
barristers —in their wigs and gowns.
Mr. and Mrs. Wigzell's many admirers gave them an ope
hair picnic on 4th inst. The affair came off at Ath
Gardens, and upwards of 130 guests turned up.
Flag-lieutenant Pakenham gave a delightful driving anc
riding peaty on Friday afternoon, the Bth. About 40 peop
were present, and afternoon tea was enjoyed at Coogee.
Duong Tart has lent the Waverley flower show a ten
valued, even in China, at one hundred and sixty pounds
“ What a pitu he has gone and married" No you don't !
At the Melbourne barbers’ tournament lately, there was
prize for the genius who could most quickly do up a fashion
able lady’s hair. The task occupied the. successful man
minutes.
The Glebe Football Club held their annual social on Frida
the Bth inst. Dancing commenced at 8 p.m., and during th
evening the trophies won during the past season were pre
sented.
Mr. J! W. Lyon was banqueted on Wednesday night prio
to his departure for America. There was rather a larfc
attendance, and the usual illuminated address was perpe
trated by Mr. D. M ‘Donald.
On Wednesday evening, the 6tli, the Sydney Socials hel
their fourth annual ball at West’s rooms, Castlereagh-streo
A large number of friends assembled, and a programme o
24 items was energetically danced through. Some prett;
dresses were worn.
Two grand variety concerts were given recently at Cobar b
the members of the local Athletic Club, arid proved a decidec
success. The athletes showed their manly physique in variou
gyrations, and the entertainments closed with a farce, whic
was very well received.
Three hundred persons were present at the annual plai
and fancy dress ball in connection with the N.S. W. Bailwa
Permanent-way Branch, in the new Masonic Hall, on th
evening of Friday the Ist inst. The programme of 24 dance
lasted until the small hours.
Jeannie Boss®, the London concert-singer, has a ver;
pretty face. She ought to have a very sad one considerin
that, her father, mother, brother, and two sisters, are livin
in far away N.S. W. The paternal surname is—tread softly—
Kobinson, and one of her brothers serves at is in fact
Victoria House “ young man.”
The concerts of the Sydney “Euphonic Orchestral Society
are generally rather amusing, and the last was no exception
to the rale. The term “ euphonic,” according to the diction
ary, means “agreeable to the ear,” and the society adopted
this cognomen in a fit of sarcasm. The entertainment wa
gratis, and yet some of those present seemed to think they
had been overcharged.
At Dr. Milford's luncheon to the Prince Alfred Yacht Clu'
last Saturday, at Cremorne, one of. the Nelson officer
said, apropos of the toast of “The Ladies,” that the chie:
thing one had to fight against in Sydney were the “brigh
eyes,” &c.—same old speech, in fact. The Nelson men don’t
seem to light- much in that respect. They all appear to be
willing victims, so far.
On Thursday evening a large number of people assembler
in_ St. Peter’s Schoolroom, Woolloomooloo, when over 100
blind people enjoyed a substantial meal arranged for them
by a number of the.ladies of the parish. Sir Alfred Stephen
presided, and received Lord Carington, to whom the iuevit
able address was presented.' A musical programme was gone
through very successfully.
“ Zamiel,” in the Auckland Star, thus brutally attacks
the Australian aristocracy apropos of the Mount Rennie
outrage:—“ But there are other forms of outrage to which
unprotected girls and women are subjected—not by larrikins,
but by respectable old bald-heads and smart young men
about town. These ' gentlemen ’ would be horrified at being
classed with the Sydney fiends to whom I have alluded ; but
in my estimation the well-dressed blackguards are deserving
of greater condemnation, for their villany is all the
meaner because it is underhand.”
On Friday evening, Bth inst., the first ball of the Suburban
Bicycle Club was held in the vestibule of Sydney Town Hall.
Among the company, who numbered over 100, were visitors
from all the suburbs. Miss Young (the Mayoress) wore a
light and elegant gown of white tulle with tight-fitting bodice
of white satin : the skirt was tastefully draped with white
lace and ornamented with sprays of pink flowers. Miss Play-
fair, a becoming pale pink sitin, the skirt covered with a
profusion of white lace. Another admired gown was a com-
bination of ruby velvet and pink tulle. -
The sporting “ slavey ” is the latest Victorian development.
A gentleman in a country town was surprised one morning
recently to find a blood-horse feeding in his stable, and was
just about to turn it out when Mary Jane called out “Oh,
that’s my horse, sir. I've entered him for the Ladies’ Hack
Race, and I want to keep him under my eye till the time
;omes.” Mary Jane won the race too, and having “ plunged’
;o an extent which would have absorbed the proceeds of two
mars dishwashing in the event of failure, she is now in a fair
way of becoming a bloated capitalist.
A Bungaree (Vic.) savage named Kennedy,
Who has got off with a fine of £4, is a credit to
Australian civilisation. - Some months ago he
separated from his wife in consequence of a
quarrel, and ordered his children never to speak
to their mother on any account. His daughter,
aged 10 yeai’3, transgressed this command and
Kennedy made Her take off her clothes and flogged
her with a thick strap until she became uncon-
scious. He is a man of some property, however,
and it was only his own daughter whom he nearly
killed, so a £4 fine about meet? tho case.
EPICUREAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
Why should we dare and dare,
And still be up and doing ?
Life, as Life is, is fair—
Why fill it full of care,
Faces of dreams pursuing ?
Why should we scheme and scheme
For fame, and rank, and riches?
When we by toil extreme
Have gained them—dust they seem !
Like fairy-gifts of witches.
Why should we fret and fret
Because hut low our name is ?
He who much praise did get
Had sweet sleep never yet—
Better is ease than fame is.
Why seek for fairer one,"
While one true heart we’re dear to ?
Rosc3 that highest run
May see more of the sun,
But sooner they grow sere, too.
1 hen kiss me, fair Felise !
While others wealth are winning
We lie beneath the trees,
And laugh, and take our ease,
And let the world go spinning.
V[?]TOR J. DALEY.
THIS WICKED
WORLD
A Brisbane man says he lias discovered a
method of making gas from water at a cost of
something less than 2s. Gd. per 1000 feet The
only man in Kempsey, N.S.W., who hoisted
Beach’s colours on the announcement of his vic-
tory was a Russian Jew At Clermont (Q.)
there are 200 Chinamen getting payable gold, of
whom only 45 hold miners’ rights. When the
officers came round Ah Hung shows his permit
and then scoots ahead by a short cut and passes it
on to Chew Bung Another woman—this time
in Victoria—has been “robbed by masked men,”
who afterwards set fire to her well-insured house.
Same venerable old yarn A Clinton (N.Z.)
publican has been “ saved.” He now wraps every
bottle of whisky he sells in a War Cry and
boards Hallelujah lasses free Harry Sellars,
A SPORTING OFFER.
SHE: “CABBY, HOW MUCH WILL YOU TAKE ME TO REDFERN FOR?”
HE: “LET’S SAY HALF-A-CROWN, MUM.”
SHE (woman-likc) : “OH, THAT’S TOO MUCH. I’LL GIVE YOU TWO SHILLINGS.”
HE: LOOK HERE, MISSUS, I’LL TELL YER WHAT I’LL DO. I'LL TAKE YER THERE
FOR FOURPENCE A POUND !”
the veteran black pugilist, died last week in the
Melbourne Benevolent Asylum. He was a man
of kindly disposition and Herculean build, and
had fought many a .good fight. He must
have been over seventy years of age
There are 2000 unemployed at Brisbane. Pity the
Government can’t start them to work making
river to the city “Established 1820 ” is on the
sign-board of a Brisbane shop. The first owner o:
that business must have been sitting on a rum
keg waiting to sell his wares to the first white
man who showed up. But perhaps he was
black fellow whoso trade was in roast ’possum ant
white grub a.... .More “ cat ” in Queensland. Two
youths convicted of robbery with violence are to
shareSolashesbetween them T. Ward, labourer
died from starvation on the beach at Island Bay, N. Z.
He had long been out of work, and left a wife and
eight children. “Tired and worn out with
anxiety’ were the words written on a scrjp oj
paper in the dead man’s pocket The boycott is
to be applied to the Chinese working on N.Q.
mines. A diners’ Union for this purpose is to be
formed There is now much joy is Ballarat over
a “converted” reporter. It was but recently
that Grattan Guinness prayed for the local scribes.
Wagga lock-up presents a most enticing ap-
pearance. A local editor says it is good enough
for members of Parliament We wonder if the
following did really all travel by wire ? It ap-
pears in the E. News as part of a N.Z. telegram :
—“ News has just come to hand of another of
those fearful manifestations of nature's abounding
savagery which strike the mind of man with an
overwhelming conviction of his own littleness.”
* * *
The public benefactions of the late Mr.
Tilden, of New York, amount to £BOO,OOO. He
was, perhaps, the richest lawyer on record
The Duke of Athole has 23 separate titles in the
peerage, the Duke of Hamilton 17, and the head
pf the “ corrupt brood of Argylo ” 10. Three
bloated monopolists The Prince of Lichten-
stein, Germany, bought a Krupp cannon, but
toiind there whs no room to fire it in his princi-
pality, so he has ended it up for a monument
thus the Vicksburg Herald to a rival “ When
lie disappears beneath the vile green scum where
ne belongs, and his warty and diseased soul goes
to its black home, all Sheol will shudder with
horror at the intrusion, and the demons will draw
aside their reeking garments lost they bo polluted
by his infectious touch.”
W limes the Sydney D.T. over the burst-up
bogus “ Australian Centennial” “Possibly tho
whole of the celebration may go to Melbourne,
and Victoria may, with her usual dash and
audacity, celebrate tho Australian centennial
commemoration.” If the Victorians do undertake
to invite the world to celebrate tho anniversary of
the day on which a signboard labelled “Rubbish
shot bore,” was first erected at Botany Bay, they
will have even more “ dash and audacity ” than
they are generally credited with. The world at
large may, considering how much it profited by
the erection of the rubbish-heap aforesaid, bo ex-
cused for taking some delight in tho said anniver-
sary, but how can any sane Australian join in
celebrating “ The Day we were Lagged ? ”
The Otago (N.X.) Acclimatisation Society
has resolved to permit fishing on Sunday, and
got into hot water in consequence.. Tho
Clutha Presbytery “deeply regrets to notice,”
&c., and calls on the people to “preserve intact
the blessings of the holy day,” and the local paper
wants the whole affair “ nipped in the bud, and
1 igidly prohibited so that “a public scandal”
may bo averted. The apostle Paul has no chance
to get his second wind in a race with a N.Z. Pres-
bytery. He said that “ One man esteemeth one
day above another, another esteemeth every day
alike. Let every man be fully persuaded in hi
own mind,” but if he rose to make that remar
now the nearest pious paper would howl for hin
to be “ nipped in the bud.”
At Port Darwin the shrivelled, witherec
Chinese curse is beginning to show fight. Th
poll-tax has been abolished in the Northern Terri
tory in order that the Shanghai men may be im
ported to work on the railways—the contractor
having offered a slight reduction if allowed t
employ Mongols only, and the air is thick and
clammy with unclean pigtails, while even the
stray gutter-pup has learned to answer to
“ Hi-yah, chang-a-wong ” rather than to th
whistle of a white man who wears his shirt inside
his pants. Fan-tan and pak-a-pu have nearly
cleaned out the town, and the police at last fee
that something must be done. So one day at the
end of last month they raided a huge gambling
house, where they found 200 leprous wretches
who had not used one bar of yellow soap among
them in their whole moon-eyed existence, hard at
work breaking a European syndicate, and made
an effort to run in 15 thieving liars apiece. But
the baldest scoundrel of the lot put his ugly head
through the window, and yelled “ Pleeee laisee
hellee ! ” and in five minutes 1000 raving, cursing,
brick-throwing fiends, with boiled-pork com
plexions, had joined in the scrimmage. In spite
of this 17 prisoners were captured, but the very
next day the Chows raised a large sum of money
among themselves, and started to prosecute the
police individually and collectively on charges of
assault, broken-headedness, and violence. They
have now got a standing fund with which to buy
witnesses, retain lawyers, and trump up cases
against obnoxious white men, and in a short time
they seem likely to be in'a position to hire a man-
darin and run the Northern Territory on their
own hook without further interference,
BRIEF MENTION.
Victorian imports - one bishop. N.S.W.
clearance—one bishop.
We went to sleep in church last Sunday.
The service was “fully chloral.” Bui.lktin copy-
right joke.
Ihe leaders of a Northern paper are
headed thus : “ Sworn to no master, of no sex am
I. ” The editor is a cleric.
About 40 surgeons have left Sydney for
the summor months, their occupation having gone
with the football season.
The holders of Mount Morgan (Q.) gold-mine
reckon that they aro getting out of it a steady
£.10,000 weekly by their new process.
1 lie river at Brisbane is very muddy just
now. It is locally rumoured that the people above
the bridge havo begun their bathing season.
The Nelson officers say they are “going
into dock at Melbourne Cup time.” The ordinary
swell doesn’t go into the dock until just after Mel-
bourne Cup time.
According to Mr. Williamson there were
22,008 manufactories in N.S.W. two years ago.
But then every storekeeper who sands the sugar
is a manufacturer.
An American college has established a
“ chair of journalism.” Wo know it. It is an
old battered affair with three legs and a broom-
stick, and filled with exchanges for a cushion.
A Wagga scribe says : — “ Yesterday was
a lovely day, so far as the weather was con-
cerned. It takes something besides sunshine to
make a lovely day in Wagga. Rum is the word?
lhe Melbourne Herald speaks of a man
“ who died from the effects of a kick from a horse
in his stomach,” but we don’t believe it. In the
first place, how is a man going to get a horse into
his stomach ? ”
“ Capital and labour should be united in
the holy bonds of matrimony,” said the Jaynil
Dan. O’Connor, M.P., at the N.S.W. Eight Hour
banquet. True for you, Daniel. But which of
them is going to be the drunken husband who beats
his wife ?
There are three health-officers in Sydney
with aggregate salaries of £2280, and all combined
seem unable to note the smells of the Chinese
quarter in Lower George-street. Yet when we
sniff them ourselves no one pays us a penny for
the job.
The Itavenswood (Q.) Miner is the
smallest paper in Australia. It is about the size
of a sheet of notepaper, and contains 118 lines of
reading matter, eight of which are devoted to
showing what an insulting handbill the other
paper (i is.
The Brisbane police wear short jackets
reefed down to their pants. This is so that
there shall be no pockets in them for pie. But
pockets for pie are useless to a Brisbane bobby.
1 lie pic that is too big to fit his mouth wouldn’t
go into a piano-case.
A squatter at Springsure (Q.) reports that
as he was riding along the road his horse put its
fore-foot on a package of dynamite. The front oi
the horse was blown into the telegraph wires and
a tree was shattered, but the rider was not hurt.
It is not necessary to believe this yarn unless vou
like.
A scintillation from the WemTeRN Star,
Roma (Q.) i “To , Esq., M.D,-
teir,—l wish to tender you my thanks for the
Kina attention you have shown my wife in hef
confinement, and also for the time you took in
restoring the child to life,—Yours respectfully.
Her : Majesty the Queen lost an old and
faithful servant last week. The bo’sun of H.M.C S-
Nelson drank a quantity of carbolic acid out of a
bottle thinking it was colonial beer. ’Twas a fatal
mistake, but quite excusable, Often have we
drunk colonial beer and thought it was carbolic
acid.
“ J.8.W., Sydney Coffee Palace,” writes
to the Sydney D,T. a half,column on the im-
morality of the low'er orders. His prescription is
hanging, and lectures to children on false-
hood, theft, acts of violence, and stone-throwing.
Just the sort of letter one might expect from a
Coffee Palace.
The Evening News says that murderer
Reynolds “ ate a hearty last supper of steak and
onions.” Wo arc much obliged to Alfred for this
piece of fashionable intelligence. But we must
mention that if Alfred eats a hearty last supper
of steak and onions, he shall not have the privilege
of whispering into our capacious ear with his
dyiDg breath.
A lecturer, a moral man of spotless repute -
who was enchanting a discriminating Melbourne
audience with a ravishing disquisition on the ad-
vantages of woollen over cotton clothing or
no clothing at all, took off a part of his attir©
to illustrate his discourse, and the local Herali>
reported the incident thus “ Off came his black-
dress coat, not a particle of vegetable fibre, all
wool even to the lining, and the same with' his
black cloth trousers and black waistcoat.” Let us
blush.
Bishop Webber, of Queensland, argues
that “Offertory” is an act of worship, and as
such should be made on the knees.” The con-
gregation of St. Paul’s, Rockhampton, refuse to>
accede to the Bishop s hint, and they sacrilegiously
keep on doing it in a sitting posture. Why, a
woman can’t find her pocket even when she’s
standing up, and no self-respecting man cares,
about going on his knees over so small a sum as.
threepence.
A Warwick (Q.) man, who has just re-
turned from Kimberley, says that his party used-
to knock off half an hour earlier on Saturday to<
curse O Donnell and the other pioneers. They
only made 11s. 6d. in three weeks, and their
Saturday s curse was their sole recreation. Yet
there must be a good deal of gold on the field,
after all. Any number of men went there with!
from £lOO to £5OO apiece, and as they came back-
without one lonely cent, their gold is obviously att
Kimberley now.
The intelligence of some juries is most
extraordinary. An interesting libel case came
before a Melbourne court the other day. One
batch of witnesses swore that a woman had gone
into an hotel and bought some beer; another
batch of witnesses swore that she had gone into'
no hotel, and bought no beer. Such a case would
have perplexed a commonplace jury, but this par-
ticular lot took in the situation at a glance. The'
foreman announced that “ gross perjury had been
committed on one side or the other,’


A COLOSSAL BREWERY.
Why Clausen’s Lager Beer
has No Rival.
WHERE CHAMPAGNE LAGER SPARKLES.
The enormous brewery, ice-houses, storage
rooms, and bottling establishment of H. Clausen
and Sons cover twenty-two lots east of Second
avenue between Forty-seven and Forty-eighth
streets. It is one of the poineer breweries of this
city and it was founded on its present location by
Mr, H. Clausen, the head of the firm, in 1858.
Prior to that year Mr. Clausen achieved a local
reputation as a practical brewer when in partner-
ship with Mr, Bates in the old Eagle brewery on
Forty-fourth street. Bit by bit it has been extended
by himself and sons until the present establish-
ment, which is second to none in this country, and
probably in the world, came into existence.
So perfect are the appointments in every detail
that the brewery deserves careful description. In
a six-storey brick building on the north side of
Forty-seventh street stand the two huge Boyle
refrigerating machines, which are connected with
a tank holding 1500 barrels of the strongest brine
in the rear of the building. Each machine has a
capacity of 50 tons, and the freezing mixture of
ammonia is passed from them through coils of
copper piping until the brine is brought to a
temperature many degrees below freezing point.
On the topmast floors of this extensive building
are the carpenter and machine shops, where the
gorgeous gilded signs, bearing the firm’s well-
known trade mark —a phoenix—are made. Stepp-
ing from the floor of one building to the floor of
another on the same street, the visitor finds him-
self confronted by two gigantic mash tubs, capable
Of holding 650 bushels of malt and hops each.
Beneath them repose two capacious copper
caldrofis, each of which has a capacity of 325
barrels. With this equipment the firm is readily
able in the summer season to turn out four brews
in a single working day. The malt mill and
elevators are surrounded by iron pipes charged
with steam. By the simple pressure of a button
the,steam surges in and the fiercest Are can be
easily extinguished. Every floor in the building
is equipped with a clever arrangement, invented
and patented by Mr. George Clausen. It consists
of a system of pipes so arranged that by bearing
down upon a lever the full head of water from a
duplex pump can be turned on any of the floors.
A walk across a wooden bridge high above the
roofs of the neighbouring tenement houses lands
the visitor ih the malt and grain room, where
thousands of bags are piled. Below is the hop
house filled with huge sacks of New York, Cali-
fornia, and imported Bohemian hops. On the
ground floor is the cooperage room, where twelve
men are constantly at work. But there is a depth
below reached only by a rude elevator. Here in
semi-darkness, piled in mountainous confusion, lie
50,000 barrels of rich old stock ale. Even this
vast cavern is not large enough to fill the wants
of these enterprising brewers, and they are now
breaking ground and making excavations on the
south side of Forty-seventh street for another ale
vault, which when completed will hold 7000 addi-
tional barrels. Fronting on Second Avenue is the
bottling establishment from which the products of
this great brewery are shipped to Australia, China,
Japan, Central America, the Pacific coast of South
America, and all over the world. Here deft-
handed young men fill thousands of bottles each
day from kegs set up on racks along the wall.
Other lads label the bottles as soon as they have
been corked. Each bottle after corking is placed
in a tank containing water, which is slowly
heated almost to boiling point by coils of steam
pipe laid before the surface. This system was
invented by Dr. Pasteur, of Paris, and it has the
effect of destroying all yeast particles and preserv-
ing permanently the brightness of the beer. The
washing machines and stables are on Forty-eighth
street.
But perhaps the most marvellous feature in con-
nection with the brewery are its fermenting rooms
and cooling vaults. Deep down in the earth these
vast caverns extend, with multitudinous ramifica-
tions, over an area equal to one-half of a cross-
town block. Like the catacombs, they are built
in three stories or galleries. Some idea of the
extent of these great caves, where the temperature
is always ice cold, may be derived from the state-
ment that their storage space is rather more than
1,000,000 cubic feet. Thi3 is exclusive of the ale
and porter vaults, the storage space of which is
500,000 cubic feet in addition. Many of the tubs
in these chilly chambers contain 500 barrels of
lager beer, and there are casks there with a
capacity equal to 150 barrels.
Since 1870 Mr. Henry Clausen, jr., and his
brother George have presided over this vast busi-
ness. Mr. Henry Clausen, jr., who attends to the
financial details of the business, was born in this
city in 1838. For many years he has been a pro-
minent figure in local politics. He served a term
in the State Legislature, and in 1884 he was pro-
minently spoken of as a possible candidate for
Mayor on the County Democratic ticket. In 1883,
when the Democrats nominated Judge Maynard,
a prohibitionist, for the office of Secretary of State,
Mr. Henry Clausen and his brother brewers
stepped to the front, and the result was that Carr,
the Republican candidate, was returned by a
handsome plurality. Carr was the only Repub-
lican on the State ticket elected. When Grover
Cleveland ran for Governor in 1882, and for Presi-
dent in 1884, Mr. Clausen and the sturdy brewers
did valiant service. In the latter campaign Mr.
Clausen was a member of the Democratic State
committee. Mr. Clausen is married, and lives
with his wife and five children in a magnificent
mansion on Eighty-third street and the Eastern
Boulevard. He is a member of the Manhattan
Club and the Liederkranz and Arion societies.
Mr. George Clausen has had charge of the prac-
tical part of the brewing business for the last six-
teen years. He obtained his knowledge, both
practical and theoretical, by making a tour of in-
spection of the chief breweries of the world. He
is his brother’s junior by ten years, is married,
and resides with his wife and children at No. 18
East Seventy-sixth street. Mr. George Clausen is
a Tammany Hall Democrat. He is also a member
of the Liederkranz and the Manhattan Club. The
Clausens brew every imaginable sort of ale, porter
and lager beer, and they do a heavy export busi
ness. Their tota 1 output is rather more than
200,000 barrels per annum, and they employ up-
ward of 200 men. The firm has branch houses in
Newark, Philadelphia and elsewhere, and the
famous “ champagne lager ” is manufactured ex-
clusively by them. The Clausens took the first
prize at the Centennial Exhibition, the first prize
at the California Exhibition, a diploma of merit
at the Paris Exposition of 1878, and any number
of minor awards and prizes.—New York Star,
1st August, 1886.
THE TORTURES OF A JEWISH FAST-DAY.
MISS REBECCA ABRAHAMS (reading late on the afternoon of Torn Kipur, from the Sydney
“Evening News”): “THE WRETCHED MURDERER, ON THE NIGHT BEFORE
HIS EXECUTION, ATE A HEARTY LAST SUPPER OF STEAK AND ONIONS”
MR. ISAAC ABRAHAMS: “O MEIN GOTT, STOP, REBECCA, HAVE MERCY DONT
MAKE A BOOR OLDT MAN’S MOUTH VATER LIKE THAT!”
Mittchell’s old established and reliable original
reform chemist shop, lfl King-street, was recently
purchased by A. A. Rigney, of Bega, who will
conduct both establishments on the standard prin-
ciples for which he is well known.
Certainly one of the most successful City Hotels, in respect
of first-class Wines, Spirits, &c., and with regard to Lun-
cheon, is Hanney’s Croat Northern Hotel, Charlotte-place.
A first-class Luncheon is provided from 12 to 3, which is
patronised hy the commercial men in this part of the city.
Just make one call, and we are sure you will be satisfied *
A young lady the other evening dreamt
that she was riding, and that the horse was run-
ning away. She jumped and fell from the bed to
the floor, dislocating her shoulder. This is, so to
speak, a case of being thrown from a nightmare.
But still the finest assortment of woollen goods,
from British and colonial mills, are being shown
by Summerfield and Company, merchant tailors,
235 and 237, Pi'tt-street, Sydney. Country resi-
dents should write for patterns, &c., sent post free
on application. ' ''
SOUR STOMACH AND FOUL BREATH
Can be quickly regulated by Dr. Bell’s Bitters, and you will
not require more than one bottle to prove this statement.
Try it a,nd be convinced.
Wine !—Reliable Old Australian Wines, selected vintages,
for invalids, families, and connoisseurs. Only Sold by
Hockings, 143 Pitt-street.
We have had war stories in abundance, but
doesn’t it strike the average reader that in the
matter of war songs we have been painfully negli-
gent ? A revival of “ Home, sweet home,” and
“Mother’s bangs will soon fit sister,” would just
now satisfy those tasteful people, who go to
see the big window show of boys’ suits, in
every conceivable design and pattern, from five
and eleven to three guineas, at Summerfield and
Company, the Great Juvenile Outfitters, 235 and
237 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Premier ball-room decorators of New South Wales. Sale
and Dare, decorators. Ball and banquet rooms tastefully
decorated with flag and floral decorations, 60i Hunter-street
Sydney. *
“ Mr. Jones,” said the Manager, with cold severity to the
Accountant, while all the tellers and ledger-keepers pricked
up their ears at his tone and manner, “ The Inspector is in
my room and wishes to have a word with you.” When Jones
entered the manager’s room be was followed by that officer,
who carefully closed the door after him, there was a buzz in
the bank. ‘‘What’s Jones beingup to?” “ I always said he’d
fiddle with the securities, first chance,” and so forth, was
whispered round.
Jones found the Inspector seated in awful state in the
manager’s chair.
“ Your salary,” Mr. Jones, said the Inspector, referring to
some notes “ is £450 a year.”
“ It is,” faltered Jones, who didn’t like the boss’s tone.
“And you have to maintain a wife and five children, I
think ? ”
“Yes, sir.”
“ Your eldest daughter is quite a grown-up young lady,
hey?’
“Quite so” stammered Jones, growing red and pale by
turns.
“Iam informed that you have no private source of income
Mr. Jones.’
‘I have rot, sir.
“ Then, Mr. Jones, you will not be surprised when I inform
you that representations have been made to the bank, that
your wife and daughter habitually wear jewellery, when in
evening dress, of a class and costliness which is plainly in-
compatible with your means. I should like to know, Mr.
Jones, where you derive the money to purchase these beauti-
ful and expensive articles I hear of. They can’t be family
heirlooms, for I have the best information that the designs
are in the most recent taste.”
Poor Mr. Jones ceased to stroke the bald place on the back
of his head, and his eyes flashing fire, he retorted warmly
“ so you considered me a thief because my wife and my
daughter wear such decorations as help to set off their at-
tractions. Do you think sir that your wife and your da ughter
monopolize the right to such embellishments. Sir the
jewellery which sets off the lovliriess of my daughter and the
matronly dignity of my wife, to the point of exciting the
jealous spitefulness of your daughter and wife (for I under-
stand now whence you derive your information) is Oriental
Gold Jewellery. It is as beautiful as the costliest articles and
yet its trifling cost enables my wife and daughter to appear in
the same society as yours without disadvantage and without
my being guilty of the thefts which you generously suspected
me guilty of. Your questions and your suspicions, your
manner and your attitude are alike insulting. I tender you
here my resignation and I have to inform you that my
daughter is next month to be married to Mr. Woolsworth,
who has also asked me to accept the management of his
financial affairs, at a salary, sir, which your own manager
does not enjoy ! I wish you good morning, sir.”
“Just to think,” grumbled the Inspector’s plain, sour
daughter that evening when her father had told her the event
of the morning and stormed at her and her mother for placing
him in so false a position; “just to think that it’s all owing
to that Oriental Gold being so lovely and so cheap. To
snatch young Woolworth from under my very nose too.”
Y A L.
Theatre ro
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. Sam. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. G.
L. Goodman. Stage Manager, Mr. John Wallace.
Doors open at 7.30 ; commence at 8 ;
carriages, 10.30.
WILLIAMSON, GARNER, and MUSGROVE’S
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
(now in the fifth year of its existence).
BRILLIANT SUCCESS of
BILLEE TAYLOR,
Or THE REWARD of VIRTUE,
new nautical opera by Stephen and Solomon, and of
Mr. WILLIAM ELTON, the Celebrated Comedian.
THIS (Thursday) EVENING, October 14,
and until further notice,
BILLEE TAYLOR.
Prices—Dress Circle, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Upper
Circle, Is. Box Plan open at Theatre daily from
10 till 5. Tickets for all parts at Eastway’s Hotel.
ACADEMY OF MUSIC.
j\_ Lessee Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
THE POPULAR AND FASHIONABLE RESORT.
THIS and EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock.
SECOND WEEK. GIGANTIC SUCCESS.
THE RICKARDS-LEETE COMPANY.
SPOONS. SPOONS
SPOONS. SPOONS.
General Manager, Mr. PHILIP STUART.
Alhambra music hall,
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp.
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENTS.
FIRST APPEARANCE IN THIS HALL of
The Great Australian Comique, Mr. W. B.
WARNER, so well and favourably known, and
the latest New York rage,
THE 2 BROTHERS RILEY.
(4 End Men.) (4 End Men.)
EVERY EVENING
TWO CIRCLES OF LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.
Popular Prices: Orchestra Chairs, 25.; Stalls
Is. ; Balcony, 6d.
Grand Concert Spirituel Every Sunday Evening
at 7.30.
IYNCH FAMILY BELLRINGERS.
J (Organised, 1867.)
Manager Mr. Harry Lynch.
To-night (Thursday)—School of Arts, Balmain.
Friday, 15th Oct. —Town Hall, Glebe.
Monday, 18th Oct.—School of Arts, Burwood.
Tuesday, 19th Oct. —Town Hall, Marrickville.
Wednesday, 20th Oct. —Albert Hall, Petersham.
Thursday—Randwick. Friday—Botany.
J. TURNER, ROBINSON & CO.
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF SPRING GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prices.
ORIENTAL
is tho latest triumph of
Science. It is a noble
GOLD
alloy, possessing the exact lustre, beauty
and enduaance of sterling Sold. A logi-
timate use has been found fer this noble metal, by
working it into Jewellery of the most exquisite de-
signs. The Oriental Gold C©.»
of 474 George St., Sydney, has
large consignments of these lovely goods, which they
sell at a fraction of the cost of Sterling Qeld Jewellery.
Mo one oan detect the difference. Send for a
Priced Catalogue, or for one of the fol-
lowing samples, all of Oriental Sold—
Brooches,Ss.; Jewelled (Parisian
Brilllantc) Brooch, 7s. 6d.; Gent’s
Albert, 7s. Od.; Pair Earrings,
Plain 55.; Jewelled, 7s. 6d,; Locket
55., Jewelled, lOs.; Ladies’Alberts
15s. P. 0.0. payable Oriental Gold
Co.
ggspTTft send theseon appreval. If they don’t
' please, return uninjured by the First
Mail, an dwe repay the cash, less postage.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.,
474 George-street,
OPPOSITE THE MARKETS,
SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1883.
WE have again much pleasure in addressing
our customers and the public. The rapid
expansion of our business, and the repeated orders
we receive from customers who dealt with us as
far back as 1882, are gratifying proofs that our
Goods and our method of doing business give
satisfaction.
We continue the same system. We buy direct
from the makers in London, Paris, and New York
all such Goods, Watches, &c., as are not the pro-
duct of our Company’s own works. We add a
fair and reasonable profit, and SELL FOR CASH,
thus avoiding bad debts, and steering clear of the
evil system of charging rates which compel paying
customers to make good the default of bad marks
HERE IS THE BASIS OF OUR SYSTEM.
The full value must accompany any order, or no attention
will be paid to it. Payment can be made by Postage Stamp
of any Australian colony ub to £1 worth, by Cheque or by
P. O. 0., payable to the Oriental Gold Co.
The Goods ordered will be sent at once. If they a’•a not
approved they may be returned per first post after delivery
uninjured, and we will, according to the wish of the customer,
either substitute another article to same value, or
WE RETURN THE MONEY IN PULL
deducting merely the trifle of actual postal charge*.
Thus: Suppose you want a Brooch—you describe, as nearly
as possible, the sort of pattern you prefer, or you leave the
choice entirely to us, and you remit, say 10s.
We endeavour to match your description, if sent, or n any
case we do our best to please and satisfy you.
On receiving the Brooch, or other article, if you don t entiiely
like the pattern or style, write by first mail explaining in what
respect you would like it to differ—returning the Broocu ta
the same good order as you received it—thereupon we will
try again, and send a second one to same value.
Or, if you don’t like the first Brooeh at all, and want your
money back, we will send back the full sum, less the postal
outlay incurred.
We make this pledge in all seriousness, although with
something of a light heart; because, although we have fink'd
thousands of orders by post on same terms, during the
four years we have been in business at our present address—
-474 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY,
Opposite the Markets,
tST WE HAVE NEVER HAD ONE SINGLE
ARTICLE RETURNED!
Customers will save themselves a good deal of trouble when
they desire to have a choice among numerous patterns by
ordering a sample parcel and sending on the money for sam e
We then send a variety, each article of which is marked witn
its price, and the customer selects one or more articles, ana
returns the rest, whereupon we send back the balance cf the
money by next post.


ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS
AMERICAN BUGGIES,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
MIIM.
n YOKE STREET,
SYDNEY
SPECIALLY IMPORTED FOR CITY OR COUNTRY USE.
the old established
American Carriage
EMPORIUM,
STERLING QUALITY,
AT
Lowest Prices.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
EVERY VEHICLE GUARANTEED.
Royal standard theatre
Castlereagh- Street.
lessee Mr. Frank Smith.
Manager for Mr. F. Smith Mr. J. Grant.
UNDER THE MANAGEMENT OF MR.
DAMPIER.
Business Manager Mr. Fred. Gunther.
LAST NIGHT of LAST NIGHT.
FAUST FAUST FAUST,
FRIDAY EVENING NEXT,
the last performance this season of
ROMEO AND JULIET,
Mr. Dampier will appear for the first time as Romeo
SATURDAY NEXT,
THE OCTOROON, for FIVE Nights only.
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL, ROCKHAMPTON
mHE above Hall is now the most completely-
.l. furnished and popular place of amusement
north of Brisbane. The Faust Family, MacMahon
and Leitch’s Dramatic Company, and Searelle and
Harding's Opera Company have just concluded
most successful seasons; also return visits in this
Hall.
For terms-r Apply,
THE SECRETARY, School of Arts.
w,
J.
HOLLOW
and
A Y
MISS ESSIE JENYNS,
supported by their especially selected Company,
in
A Ring of Iron,” “A Mad Marriage,” “The
Broken Idol,” “ Hamlet,” “ Romeo and Juliet,”
‘ Much Ado About Nothing,” “As You Like It,”
&c>, &c.
OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY, SEPTEMBHR 11.
“ A RING OF IRON.”
The royal polytechnic
OPEN DAILY
from 10 a.m. till 5 p.m., and from 7 till 10 p.m.
490 George-street opposite the markets.
A POPULAR PLACE OF AMUSEMENT.
A SCIENTIFIC AND MECHANICAL EXHI-
BITION.
Steam and Electromagnetic Machines in motion, The
Fairy Grotto, Graphoscopes, Stereoscopes, Praxiniscopes, the
Pranista (the most wonderful Automatic Pianoforte player
in the world). Views in ail Countries, the Pastime Tables,
Children’s Corner for Games and Puzzles, Mechanical Figures,
the Peacock’s Parade, the Firemen Rescuing Life, the Bear
Pit, the engraver at Work etching on glass, Curioi, Fountains.
Refreshments of the most recherche kind, under the able
superintendence of Mr. Harrington of the Royal Con-
fectionery Co.
ADMISSION, ONE SHILLING; CHILDREN SIXPENCE.
11
M . RILE
• (late of the Detective Force),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
73 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
Contidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
divorce, libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
Rents and debts collected. From R. M. R.’s long experience
in the Detective Force of New South Waleß, Vietoria, and
New Zealaud, and established agencies in all parts of the
globe, he (e in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
exi-fuitj.n and strictest secresy, and to faithfully and
pr.i nct.» attend to all business entrusted to h care.
010,000. £10,000.—“ BARB’S ” GRAND CON-
dU SULTATION on the MELBOURNE CUP,
to be run on the Flemington Racecourse, Mel-
bourne, in November, 1886. 20,000 Members at
10s. each, to be divided as follows :—The Highest
Prize is £2OOO, the Lowest £7 10s.
Prizes —lst horse, £2OOO ; 2nd horse, £1000;
3rd horse, £6OO ; Starters (divided), £6OO Non-
starters (divided), £9OO.
Cash Awards. —Ten Prizes at £lOO each;
Twenty Prizes at £5O each ; Thirty prizes at £25
each ; Forty prizes at £2O each ; Sixty prizes at
£lO each ; One Hundred £7 10s.
Each Ticket has seven chances, and can obtain
a Prize in each of the Seven Drawings, which re-
duces the odds to about six to one ; in fact, One
Ten Shillings Ticket could obtain seven Prizes.
Please send P.O. Orders when convenient, or Bank Notes
Country Cheques must have One Shilling exchange added
and marked correct by bank. Two stamps required for reply
and result. The drawing will take place under the srper-
vision of a Committee of the Shareholders. All will be done
to ensure the entire satisfaction of Subscribers. Please send
early for Tickets and Register letters. Please address—
“BAßß,"
c. o. T. G. Green, Guildhall Hotel,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
GENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES REPAIRED AND
CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET
„ Near Market-street.
F
/o^
-*V o^
V
illpp.
&
'/JOL
<4
a 7 Ley /c?^6 J
yy? & /;/?//&/$ yr/ tfie .
VJ t 0 0
4> Qy^^ame'.
ILLUSTRATION (in reduced size) of s6l Order to be found in the
“LARGE BOTTLES” OF WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
Under the Patronage of His Excellency,
Lord Carrington.
JOHN NOAKE,
TOBACCONIST,
HAS just landed 200 dozen well-assorted
STICKS from the principal manufactory in
Paris, and offers them to his patrons and the
general public at prices suitable to all.
GOLD, SILVER, and NICKEL MOUNTED,
in great variety, and even the most fastidious
cannot fail to be suited.
Establishments :
446 & 320 GEORGE STREET,
AND
T?A_l_,Lj mall,
33 Hunter-street, Sydney.
BEDDING! BEDDING I BEDDING!
The same old saying—You Can’t Beat Lawler s.
THERE YOU CAN GET a Hair Mattress, and
no better BOX SPRING MATTRESS was
ever made than those made by LAWLER.
It is literally a mass of spiral springs, heavily
webbed, and thoroughly upholstered in best curled
hair.
Note. —No wire mattress ever made affords
such refreshing rest or can be depended upon as
can the Box Spring Mattress turned out at
608 GEORGE STREE
KAPOK, soft as Eider Down, at “LAWLER S.’
None but the celebrated “ Samarang ’’-grown
Java Kapox stocked.
No second quality of Kapox at “Lawler’s.”
Flock and Fibre Mattresses, ready for daily
delivery, at Lawler’s.
Wire Mattresses, all sizes, by all makers.
Palliasses, from best long-cut straw —three
qualities.
Purchasers will save money, and, in the end,
worry, by buying at
LAWLER’S 608 George-street, Sydney,
Thousands of people have tried
AND PROVED THAT
FATHER WOLFREY’S WORM POWDERS
are the best every way for children and adults.
Prepared only oy the undersigned. Price, 6d.
each; by post 7d. When ordering please state
age of patient.
EAMES’
HOREHOUND
AND
COLTSFOOT
SYRUP.
M*rS (,
The best medi
cine for reliev-
ing coughs,
colds, hoarse-
ness. See. It has
a great sale in
Sydney. Price,
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d
per bottle.
EAMES’ ANTIBILIOUS PILLS.
Send for list of testimonials. Price, Is., Is. 6d.,
and 2s. per box. By post 2d. extra.
The above may be procured through any chemist
or storekeeper, or direct from
W. D. EAMES, CHEMIST,
Apothecaries’ Hall,
14, OXFORD-STEEET, SYDNEY.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted, with Rheumatic Gout, Tic-
Doloreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Pace, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary! In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. A, EOSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
531 George-stresi only.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney October 12, 1886.
Tenders for public works and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the lowing PL BLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten-
ders are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
To WINEGROWERS AND OTHERS.
G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE CASKS, 250 to 400 gallons ;
also,
Rum, Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS.
Hogsheads, Quarter-casks, Spirit Kegs, from 2
gallons and upwards.
COOPERAGE
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market streets.
ECORNILLON & CO., Wine and Spirit
• Merchants, 22 Bridge street, Sydney
Have on Sale—
Mackies & Co. celebrated Whiskie
E. Remy Martin & Co.’s Centaur Brandy, in
bulk and cases
Vve. Martin and Fils Squirrel Brandy
Ca. Yin cola del norte de Espana, Rioja Clarets.
Port, &c.
The unequalled A.Y.H. Gin, &c., &c.
Flour I Flour! Flour!
LION FLOUR MILLS,
KENT ST., SYDNEY.
Town Whites, Fine Seconds Flour,
Wheat Meal, Cones, Bran and Pol-
lard, always on hand. All made
from the very best wheat procurable,
and at the lowest prices.
Guinness’ Extra Stout.
FIRST - QUALITY.
xiiiS
BASS’ PALE AT/E
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
W. BALCHIN, JOHNSTON & CO.,
Commercial Chambers, ISond-street., Sydney,
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AMI INDIAN EXHIBITION,
LONDON,
By Special Appointment.
ZZEIDXC X ZTE3
Prepared from Pure Drugs and chemicals by
qualified Chemists in the most scientific manner
to ensure the best action,
FOR NOTHING
is more essential to enable doctors to make quick
cures, therefore we only employ qualified assist-
ants with diplomas in our establishments, and
supply everything of the best quality at
the lowest prices.
T. JONES & CO.,
DISPENSING chemists.
53 Market-st between Pitt and George-streets.
Branch Houses Crown-street Tram Terminus
Surry Hills : and Suva, Fiji ’
COOLALTA WINES
(SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX),
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 GEORGE STREET
(Beneath Paling’s).
H A Blessing in every Family.
OLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT
There is not a country in the civilized world where
me nealmg virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers
In all the ordinal? ailments of humanity their beneficent
_ „ ... .. action is at once recognised.
Fullest surfed for disease.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford-st.,' London
„ ?i 1 I? haB ? a , ers ahould I ° ok t( > Label on the Boxes and
Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-street, London, they
are spurious ’ *


PROVIDENCE
Help! thoM who help themselves. Nature has provided
herb* for the cure of human ailments, and medical
science has discovered their , healipg powers, and the
proper combinations necessary to conquer disease,
fee result of these discoveries and combinations i»—
Dr. BELL’S BITTERS.
For many years it has been tested in severe cases of
Kidney and Llvjr Diseases, Malaria, Dyspepsia, In-
digestion, weakness, Lassitude, it c„ and invariably it
has given relief and cure. Thousands of testimonials
have been given, and is most popular where best
knows.
DAILY AND HOURLY EVENTS.
Headache.— The stomach is disordered. Cleanse
and settle it with Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
Indigestion. — Start the Secretions of the Stomach
with Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
Jaundice Blood poisoned by Bile. Correot the
jjver by using Dr. Bell’s Bitiers.
Loss of Appetite.-Vac Stomach is falling. First
oleanselt; then tone with Dr. Bell’e Bitten.
Torpidity.— Inaction of Liver. Start it np with
Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
nausea. —Reaction of Bile. Correot Stomaoh and
liver with Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
Malaria.— Poison in the Blood. Purify by starting
the Lirer with Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
jfervovsness.— Deranged Stomach Function. Cor-
rect 6 nd tone with Dr. Bell's Bittera
nioht Sweats. —Weakness- Strengthen and tone
the system with Dr. Bell’s Bittera
Kotb. —Any poor Person, or the Manager of any
Hospital, Asylum, or Old People’s, Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously, upon written application to
tb* Agents, accompanied by a certificate, of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
lor medicine. _________
BELL’S BITTERS
C
Manufacturing Company,
nwr FOBS, LOSBOM, CANADA,
Sfffl-W ZB All AND & AUSTRALIA.
BUTCHER, FEHON & CO., Sydney
AGSKTS FOB
jfiw Heath Wales and Queensland.
The New Furniture and Carpet
Warehouse
Jones, Lawson Lros, & Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
AT
LESS THAN ENGLISH PRICES.
EIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
with three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING ROOMS,
At the Exceedingly Low Price of £5 15s.
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER SUITES,
At Correspondingly Low Prices.
FURNITURE for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY,
THE DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING-ROOM.
BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEADS,
in great variety.
Jones, Lawson Bros., and Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
THE FOLLOWING GOODS
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Corn Paint, Is
Asiatic Liniment, 2s
That Modern Appetiser, The Australian Relish, Is
A. Soyer’s Baking Powder, (free from alum) 6d.
Page’s Custard powder, i in Box, Is. —makes two
quarts fine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linctus, for coughs, Is.
Clayton’s Nervine, for toothache and cold in the
gums, Is.
Dr. Barbarossa’s Cantharides and Russian Bear’s
Grease Oil, for covering bald patches and pro
ducing whiskers. 2s. 6d.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
177, 268 and 266 PITT STREET.
“S>s»
Wn
*5
manufacturers
& IMPORTERS OF
t ; i.idt. _ »
HATS CAPS it
438 CEORCE ST
SYDNEY f
/
RUSTON PROCTOR & CO.'S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
“TRIUMPH” THRASHING MACHINES,
Simon’s Roller System of Flour Milling.
Sole Agents:
E. C. ELLIOTT & CO.,
547 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENW A R E
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
O and CO.’S
Cognac.
„. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
FOLEY’S SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &c. k For
terms, &c., apply to
H. M. CANSDELL,
Manager and Instructor.
T
HE
BANK OP NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES ;
61 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital ...
Reserve fund
£1,000,000
675,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OP AMERICA
and CANADA and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
. F. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.
T
[HE FRESH POOD AND ICE COMPANY
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
No. 23 ROYAL ARCADE,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &c., with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency for
“ KOUMISS.” so highly recommended in pulmo-
nary complaints.
FRESH FOOD AND ICE CO., LIMITED,
Head Office
Stables
Factory
21 Harbour-street.
Liverpool-street.
Mittagong.
KW THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows: —SEVEN PER CELT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
J. V. WARHEAM, Manager.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL preserves,
Lengthens, and beautifies the hair: it contains
3 lead or mineral ingredients, and can now be
[so had in a golden colour, which is especiallj
lited for fair or golden-hairod children and
arsons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a most cooling,
ad refreshing wash for the face, hands and arms,
ad is perfectly free from any mineral of metallic
dmixtures; it disperses freckles, tan, prickly heat,
jdness, pimples, &c.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE produces
nmediately a perfect change in red or grey hair,
diiskers and eyebrows, to a glossy and permanent
rown or black, which colour neither washing nor
erspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
rticlcs, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
purious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bros.,
2, PROSSER & Co., Sydney.
QUOD FACIMUS VALDE FACIMUS
(What we do we do well.)
OUR PHOTO.—If you feel
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and withal
truthful photograph of yourself,
accept what is but well-meant
counsel, and at once pay a visit
to the vestibule leading to Gal-
leries in Sydney Arcade. There
you can inspect a choice collec-
tion of portraiture (the every-day
'work of Creelman and Co.) the
excellence of which, we venture
to say, ought at once to determine
your choiee in their favour, and
take away all doubt as to the
proper place to go to.
Prices; C.-D.-V., 155.; Cabinets, 30s.
CREELMAN k CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, Sydney Arcade.
w.
JOHNSON,
COOPER, SURVEYOR,
and
LICENSED GAUGER,
11 PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND
STREET, SYDNEY.
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces and Kegs, Tallow
Casks, new and second-hand; also, Wine and
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prices.
CHIGIIVG IN ALL ITS lIKANCIIES.
C. H. SMITH & SON,
Manufacturers and Importers
OF
HATS CiYPS,
302 GEORGE STREET,
3 Doors South of Hunter-street.
Z Cabinets
taken fi r
3/-
Sr°
yA*-
go
'778
WiluamS:
MANUFACTURING
HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
s
YD
N
EY
NEWEST SHAPES
Soil) ty SHOE SUER. Bums Ed BBIHEiSTS
IKZB KEDAIAiI
HAOTHAWAH
IL9 lEU4BLI
& necessity is oierj
family. It blacks and
polishes Ladies’ ini
BOSTON, 1869.
VIENNA, 1878.
187 ft
Children’s Boots,
Shoes, Bubisera and
Satchels, with out
brushing. 41 way*
gives satisfaction.
Is conceded to la
‘THE ST4MQABB."
C. L. H AUTH AWAY & SONS,
191 & 233 Congress Street. Bcstoa,
MASS.. U.B. A
UMBRELLAS
HESOVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames re-
covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made equal
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly executed.
AnytMng you repire from Sydney
FORWARDED AT
COST PRICE.
NO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, forwarded free of all
charges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
JOHN T. M'INNES & CO.,
90 S’ITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SHOULD USE } P EIE L L 7 S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
r LOUE!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD,
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL
831 Gkorge-Street, Sydney.
Good News for the Music-loving Public,
A BRANCH OF THE
Musical Instrument Direct
Supply Association
Is NOW OPEN at
674 GEOBGE-ST., SYDNEY,
With the Largest Stock of Musical Instruments in
the Southern Hemisphere,
AT LONDON price's, 50 per cent, less
than Sydney prices,
Direct from the European manufacturers to
the Australian consumer.
4/6, 5/6, 1/6, 9/6, 12/6. 11/6, 21/, 25/, SO/.
45/, to £2O.
Speciality : The German-Anglo, in wood box, 21/-
~ Ditto, superior, with steel notes, 35-
Q
ACCDEDBONS
fit.7/6,10/6 12/6.15/, 11/6.
21/-. *5/-, »«/-, 40/-, to «6
Speciality : The miniature Melodian, 21/-,
Ditto, oak, with steel notes, 42/-
10/ff. 15/-, 30/-, 35/-, 30/-, to *3O.
Speciality : Old Copy Violin, with case, how
instruction hook, 35/-.
COMETS
at 40/-, 50/-, 75/-. 105/-, 130/-
to £lB.
ipeeialities : The new ‘ ‘ Levy ” model,
with water key £5 5 0
~ The new “Reynolds” model
with double water key... 910
The new “Reynolds” Echo-
attachment Cornet ... 12 10
FLUTES, froip 1/6 to £lO.
Specialty : The 8-key Cocoa D Concert Flute,
with slide-head, in case, by
best English maker ...50/-
■
it
. *'s
THE SYMPHONETTE
In nickel silver, with six tunes, 30/-.
Extra tunes, 1/- each.
From 5/6 each to £lO.
The ** Walter Howard” American Nickel Banjo,
£3 3s.
OS’ Brass and Drum and Fife Bands furnished
throughout. Negro Minstrel Troupes fitted out
Clarionets, Violin Strings and Fittings, Flageolets
Drums, Guitars, Harmonicons, Tambourines
and, in fact, an assortment of every class
of Musical Instrument, from a
Jew’s Harp to a Church Organ.
MUSIC ! MUSIC !! MUSIC !!
200 000 Copies New and Popular Music, publishe
at 35., is., and 55., sold at 9d. jer copy.
WORTH OF
MUSIC FOR
£l.
All instruments carefully packed and forwarded
to any part of the colonies.
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
MANAGER*


RAW VASELINE.
mu
A
HORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
Collar Check and Serge, 40 and 44 inches ;
Large assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s Saddles, Spurs, andj all kinds of
Saddlers’ Ironmongery, &c.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS, AND SADDLERS
iaiiwwim IRONMONGERS,!
125 YORK ST., SYDNEY.
\HL
/ ; £ r
p/v ?A p
EPPS’S
"i :
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
m
WHOLESALE MANUFACTURING
tONFECTIONER
4Zo(ttvroe
SYDAk'Y
JAMES STEDMAN
St cam works,Kent s t near Erbkine ST„
■‘‘Wtd'J’UtQ CoJku OH- S)OmA, omO-mumv
TpoKoet*.o*_ s * o *t*s* r1 _ a T IC . E j 1
Covhthy 4Smrrtnc Omoeks ATTSW\
-4,
SINGER
and Co.’s
Bicycles
AI\D
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap
JOHN DANES,
363 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
cr«T'' I HE
SIAND
|ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS. COUGHS
AND ALL CHEST AFHECTIONS
PREPARED ONLY «.
Iho mas Ingham,
. I ■ w . V | y-k I 1M V* n n IVI . I J
PC. K H AMP TON. I j
p
!
L
U
L
I
F
E
R
A
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others forits lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Medals—
V AltlS. 1878; CALCUTTA, 1381,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
ESSENCE OF WHITE ROSE
PRANGIPANNE
STEPHANOTIS
YLANG YLANG
OPAPANAX
and other webl-known Perfumes are un-
equalled lorthf*ir delightful and lasting edour
Atkinson’s celebrated
EAU DE COLOGNE.
Unsurpassed for its strength and delightful
fragrance. It is far superior tot lie numerous
compounds sold under the same name
Of all Dealers , and of the Manufacturers—
J & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London
Trade Mark—“ White Hose” 011“ Golden
Lyre-
A GUARANTEEwith
-CJ L each pipe for real
Meerschaum and
Amber.
[Fire-proof Briars. Repairs, &c.
Lin^9 S ,n NTHAIj ’ Pipemake:
*|" tlc Collins-strect, East, jtlcllxnn
illustrated Catalogues ou^applicaticn,
er,
ue.
FURNITURE, CARPETS, & RUGS,
BEDSTEADS -A.TTID BEDDIHa.
THE NEW FURNITURE AND CARPET WAREHOUSE,
tai
Hi
If
m.
&
c.o
Pi
mjLii.u.
£H -
>
.
si
&
r-,3?
•C-
-i-'T
S '; » <e ;c.O
ui- SOSSSS
?r <C-
(tO
cr
LSfc?*
r(3
:-j
LD
<3^.
aims iMOOH-ONiKia xo(raoo hhx
.:'/'K.r
. . - ■
:SSY;-
r C 6 " 1 >
O, L
3 0 CASTLE REAGH STREET,
ie .a. ir,
huntee
S T IR E E T.
JONES, LAWSON BROS., & CO.,
39 CASTLEKEAGH STREET,
NEAR HUNTER STREET,
IV:!'
HE
REMINGTON
TYPE-WRITE
Saves labour, stationery, and time, writing mueh fast
than expert pen-men, and condensing matter to less th
one-half the space occupied by pen writing. Beautif
copies may be taken in the usual manner in the letter-pre
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY & CO.,
410 Kent-street.
•oi popaowE .{nduiojd sjopjQ iCnunoQ
■B9JJ ISOd SOtIgOIE'JEQ
‘AHNaAS ‘xaHHXS XXId 80S ‘IKIVOHY MOO
S(M3OIIVAQ WVITIIM
T'B At at AUO BiJEAVp3 SJJOOg AAA { p/
puEqpuooag puE Atax SaWiTTOA UUU I
pagaEqoxg; jo ‘ppg ‘qqgnog
‘SJIOOB ‘SHOOS ‘SHOO!
G. B. MODINI, Gunmaker,
Becs to announce to his patrons and the public that he has
received by late arrivals, one of the largest and best selections
of
FIREARMS
seen in Sydney. The latest improvements in Breach and
Muzzle-loading Guns, Rifles, Revolvers, &c. Agent for the
following celebrated London Manufacturers : T. Purdy and
Sons, John Rigby and Co., Joseph Lang and Son, Chas.
Osborne and Co., T. Bland and Son; also Bussey and Co.,
r* l3 ! anu f a cture kinds of Sportsmen’s Requirements for
tht field. A large assortment of other celebrated makers’
stock on hand from Webey, Riley, Scott, &c., and the best
Continental and American makers. A choice and complete
stock of Cutlery. Field and Marine Glasses, and sportsmen’s
Supplies m general. Repairs promptly executed by skilful
workmen, and all goods will be faithfully guaranteed at
602 GEORGE-ST., BRICKFIELD HILL,
SYDNEY.
Inspection Invited. OS’ Price List on application.
M
O N U M E N T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on reque3
J. CIINVIffGHAM,
MABOtABBX-SXBSBT, WYNWABD SQUABE, SYDNEY)
THE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY
(ESTABLISHED 1889).
Paid-up Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund, £155,000
Directors
The lion. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C.
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches : Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Gosford, Nyn-
gau, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonard's, Newcastle
and Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
London Bankers : The National Provincial Bank of
England.
HEALTH IS WEALTH.
NERV
ORALWL
TREATMENT:'™*
t)r. E. C. West’s Nerve and Brain Treatment,
guaranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions, Fit
Nervous Neuralgia, Headache, Nervous Prostration, caused b
the use of alcohol or tobacso, Wakefulness, Mental Depression
Softening of the Brain resulting in insanity and leading t
misery, decay, and death, Premature Old Age, caused b
over-exertion of the brain, or over-indulgence. Each bo
contains one month's treatment. ss. a box, or six boxes fo
255., sent by mail prepaid on receipt of price. We Guar
antes six boxes to CURE ANY case. With each order re
ceived by us for six boxes, accompanied with 255., we wi
send the purchaser our written guarantee to refund th
money if the treatment does not effect a cure. Guarantee
issued only by
JOHN C. WEST and CO.,
65 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Circular sent free on application.
£lOO Reward!
We will pay the above reward for any case of liver com
plaint, dyspepsia, sick headache, indigestion, constipation or
costiveness, we cannot cure with West's Vegetable Liver
Pills, when the directions are strictly complied with. They
are purely vegetable, and never fail to give satisfaction
Large boxes containing 30 sugar-coated pills Is. For sale by
all druggists. Beware of counterfeits and imitations. The
genuine aianufactured only by
JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
65 Market-street Sydney, N.S.W.
Sent Prepaid by post on receipt of Is. psr box in stamps.
w w w
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMENT.
Infallible remedy frr Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
Gout, .Sprains, Cuts, Burns, Scalds, Brufr.es, Headache,
Mumps, Hiu Disease, White Swelling, Felons, Chilblains
Whidows, Chapped Hands, Frozen Feet, Bit< s of insect-,
3ove Throat and all'diseasi s requiring external applicaticn.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers.
Price Is, and 2s. re >. Eottle.
JOHN C. WEST & CO., Sole Proprietors.
SYDNEY, CHICAGO and
TORONTO.
B
RADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
ANt>
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY :
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
■V •
171ULL SUITES for DINING-ROOM.— SIDE-
-1 HOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
ARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
Cmatch.
mm
i a :
[■ •;
Sideboards of modem
dosigns and various dimen-
sions, in OAK, MAHOGANY,
WALNUT, ASH, and CEDAR.
A largo selection, at all
prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably Up-
holstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
V
PIANOFORTE,
dtOO guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brilliant
tone, in handsome ease.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMI ORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &c. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell and
Spring Streets.
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery • Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, comma
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell and Spring
Streets.
HIFFONIER WHATNOTS, effective designs.
Large choice. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
Drawing room cabi-
nets, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
Drawing-room occasional chairs.—
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s. 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WIALNUT revolving
BOOKSTANDS, 2,3, and 4-
tier —a desideratum for the Barris
ter’s Chamber, Judicial Bench
Library, Drawing-room, or even the
Bedroom. Very handy—especially
so for the Invalid Reader.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in
any material.
T> EVOLVING SHOW
XV STANDS,
for the advantageous display of
Woollens,
Grocers’ Samples, or
Fancy Goods.
Everything is well exhibited,
and any single article Gan be
conveniently handled without
disturbing another.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
s
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH, for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN. .
T) OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
JLV> ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
Bedsteads, an sizes,
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and'
LAMB,
• Importers,
O’Connell and Spring Streets,
BEDDING. —All descriptions at lowest rates
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
SPRING MATTRASSKS
Woven Wire, best
make; also, Spiral Springs
Price, from 14s. each.
BRADLEY. NEWTON and LAMB
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 3Qg.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3105.; Clothes Ho*3Bß. from 10s. 6d.;
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 90s.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.


“With Greased Wheels.”
“Please send £150 as agreed grease.”—. Extract from letter written by W.M. Ollivier , partner infirm of H. H. Brown (M.P.) and Co., land-agents, Sydney,
"Getting the lapsing of Tinkler’s conditional purchase reversed, £150. "—Entry in boohs of Mr. Fitzwilliam Wentwoith.


*yfai exquisite
ZoUty
BY THE PROPRIE TOR,
SAL ICYII
TOOTH PASTE
f &//>?/ FOf{ /TS^NT/SIPT/C
fHo clea/si/6 properties.
T,B MELHUISH , Pharmaceutical Chemist
’ /34 W/luam ST, SYDNEY
00
TS
00TS
T. WILLIAMS & CO.,
IMPORTERS OF
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Also Manufacturers of
The Finest Quality of Goods in the above Lines.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
S3O
OH
SI
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
EFFECTUALLY DESTF
ALLNOXIOUS INSECT
FLEAS. FLIES. BEETLES. MOSQUITOES.
COCKROACHES. VrßA'r AND IS
|AT THE SAME TIMEQUITE
|HARMLESSTO BIRDS DOGS
FOWLS OR OTHER
ANIMALS
f
SOLDI
Pby ALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS;
WHOLESALE
FELTON-GRIMWADE'W.C'?|
MELBOURNE - I
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware ot
the numerous imitations.
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE
%
asS Efffi
*
Fop Renewing Ebonized Cabinets, i For Reviving Plates, Knobs, Locks, &e.
Desks, Workboxes, &c. 1 For Renewing Carriage Lamps.
For Painting Picture Frames, &e., &c.
1/- and 2/6 per Bottla. Sold by Chemists, Stationers, Storekeepers, &c., &c.
DANIEL JUDSON & SON (LIMITED), London and New York.
HENRY LANCASTER,
//totv
O *»n» cart.
AFFECTED
* Y WEATHER
TROUGH
HE BROKFuiII
JP (UWAF
/2r/w*f raiat/v.
/ U>? J
r
WATE
lulKinim
INDER
Nffi
p Tteua
FOR MANY YEARS
engaged in the
Leading Workshops
of England,
Lately 5 years with
Hudson Bros,,
Manufacturer of
WROUGHT IRON
TANKS & CISTERNS,
of any size or shape,
for squatters, wool-
washers, and station-
owners.
Horse and Cattle
Troughs,
of every description,
wrought-iron pipes, s. s.
funnels, ventilators,
&c., &c.
Estimates cheerfully given.
REDUCED PRICE LISTSjPURNISHED ON APPLICATION.
65 GEORGE STREET, WEST, [near Railway Station.
ORGAKS !
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
‘‘SMITH.’
BRUCE & MASSEY,
iFi^Jsros,
ORGANS, MUSIC.
197 Pitt-st., Sydney.
PILLS,
JBE &REAT LITER REMEDY.
, f . rom Dand elion, and free from the
tw tj He Petiole of mercury or mineral substance,
tL* ’So v ular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
‘ ,n P le , yet most effective ; they can be
wM p l>e y re ocmmended, being a carefuly pre-
Pa^ a tion, and the result of practical ex-
H#^ e s"offu ' ey overcome the worst form of
w t ne Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
to bear that they have hot afforded
belief.
<3<l GEORGE street.
MARSHALL'S
TONIC NERVINE
TRADE MARK—“ TONIC NeTTvINE."
A SAFE, CERTAIN, and SPEEDY CURE for Nervous
and General Debility, and all complaints that spring from
lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia, Toothache, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Loss of Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and
Kidney Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished Blood,
Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power, &e. By its tonic
and soothing effects it at once removes all crating for
Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous and other powerful
vitalising elements, TONIC NERVINE nour-
ishes and gives vigor to the wllhle system. Price 4s 6d
§r°J?„r everywhere - MARSHALL BROTHERS, Sydney;
N.S.W.: London, Eng.
TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
WAUGH'S
ANO *Va UG HSON LY
OBTAINED a
FI RST CLASS AWARD^
. OR ' ' if
HIGHEST DEGREE OF MERIT ;
ISTHEBEST INTHEWORLD!!
NONE OTHER BUT *
Manufactured by James Channon
Harbour S t Sydney
Sold by All CrocersandStorekMpers
ART I FtCI AL TEETH
rOMPLETESFT
MARSHALL BRO:
DENTISTS
133 ELI Z A BETH ST
Robert butcher & co.
(Late William Long),
m WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Town Hall, Sydney.
t3T Country Orders receive prompt attention. IE4
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
Her Majesty the Queen
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales.
H.M.) ,THEi .’THR NETHERLANDS.
M THE CZAR OF RUSSIA
Agents for New South Wales
TRAPP & ELLES,
~54 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
(ESTABLISHED 1860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &c., from the Sotuhern
Colonies or New Zealand, may be made to Arthur
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
D R 'RIDGE’£>
FOOD
for INFANTS and INVALLB
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother ■will certain iy
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
BIDDELL BROTHERS,
CONFECTIONERS,
505, 507, 507| GEORGE STREET,
*3F Every article in the trade. Caterers supplied,
with New Goods.
Acme Lozenges, most superior
Pachouli and Cachou Comfits, in 3d. boxes
Voice Jujubes
Finest Jam Sugar, in \ and lib tins
Sherbet and New Motto Kisses
Note. —Biddell’s London Mixtures are all of
regular quality.
0
(9
CT3
r *o
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguis Wilson’s Ame-
rican “Extra Toast” BISCUITS, For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and incomparable
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Sussex Street, Sydney.
SSS
H
■wan
MW Ar
.S*k
-• A .
Photographing niggers is the highest kind of fun,
There’s money in it, too, if it’s only rightly done—
A lens that’s good, an eye that’s quick, no dirt, or dust, or flutter,
A choice of rapid plates and a Lichtner’s lightning shutter.
Photographic sets, including all requisites for the learner, the student, or
the professional, can be had at prices to suit requirements, from
LICHTNER AND CO.,
GENERAL PHOTO-STOCK IMPORTERS,
Send ferj 2 4 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY, tOURlwm.
AND AT 36 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. "
“BOOKS.” Any Book You Want. “BOOKS.”
ANGUS & _ ROBERTSON,
■l3 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Large stock of new and second-hand Books. Price of any book on application. Books aenfc by
mail to any part of Australia.


THOMAS GAUNT,
WATCHMAKER JEWELLER & OPTIOIAS
14
BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
}
339 & 341 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
r NEARLY OPPOSITE THE
\ POST OFFICE.
Manufacturer of Turret Clocks, Prize Cups, Optical and Surveying Instruments, &c.
Gaunt’s Special Silver Hunting English Lever Watch, strong dust-proof cases, warranted a most correct and reliable timeke e P,
Post free on receipt of P. 0.0, for 6 guineas. A select stock of Gold and Diamond Jewellery.
PRICE LISTS FREE ON APPLICATION.
FRY'S MALTED COCOA!
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“AN ORDINARY CUP CONTAINS MORE ACTIVE PROPERTIES OF MALT THAN A PINT OF THE BEST ALE OR PORTER.’’-Lancet.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing, Plumbing,
Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description. __
BOULTON’S “FLUSH,” “VALVE,” and “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters,
Warmers, <tc.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND 9 MACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Price on Application.
WOOD WORKING AND SAW MILL MACHINERY.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Are SOLE AGENTS for
T. dz, Co., Cinci
And carry a Large Stock of their Celebrated Machines.
EVERY REQUISITE FOR WOOD-WORKING AND SAW-MILLING IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogues and Prices. ' . .. - n
Offices and Stores: 17 PITT STREET, Circular Quay, Sydney.
ZES. LiiBKIU,
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPIRITS,
Begs tc> announce to his town and country friends, that he has just completed extensive additions to his WHOLESALE and
RETAIL BOTTLE DEPARTMENT, which is now replete with a well-assorted Stock of the Best Brands of Wines’
and Spirits, personally selected by the proprietor.
He can therefore confidently recommend the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, hopes to merit the patronage
which has hitherto been so lfbqrajjy extended to him.
ENGLISH ALES and STOUT, OF ALL BRANDS, SHILLING EACH PER QUART.
THE FINEST BRANDS OF WHISKY, BRANDIES, PORTS, SHERRIES, CLARETS, and CHAMPAGNE, at the
Lowest Prices obtainable in Sydney.
S3T A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU. SPECIAL PRICES FOR CASES OF THE ABOVE.
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, all returns being allowed for
Cases of Wines, and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at any Country Railway Station of Wharf Free of
Charge.
P. R. Larkin wishes to call your attention to his famous £3 Cases, containing the following :
3 Betties BRANDY 3 Bottles WHISKY 7 Bottles LOWNDES' RUM
1 Bottle JAMAICA RUM I Bottle WOLFE'S SCHNAPPS 1 Bottle OLD TOM
1 Bottle PORT WINE 1 Bottle SHERRY WINE
Total 18.
TJie articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have given perfect satis -
faction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, please make P. O. Order payable at th : Haymarket Post Office.
KINDLY NOTE THE ADDRESS:
P. E. LARKIN, Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant and Importer,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL, GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS, HAYMAKET, SYDNEY;
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 778 and 780 George-street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
LLUSJTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
C. R. YOUNG’S r , T
COMMERCIAL HOTEL
GULGONG.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION FOR TRAVELLERS.
LEA &PERRINS SAUCE
SAUC
f/v PtHRIJg
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTER
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label on every
bears their Signature thus —
ISBI^
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTER ’
SAUCE is genuine. i
° ~u an*
PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, LdbeU st an*
Ask fu> LEA and JOBie, ana see cvame on rvrapver,
-■topper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; C f or ld.
iilackwell , London , <srv,, &“c.; and bv Grocers and Oilmen throughout the
Wholesale Agents : Montef[Ore,|.Joseph &"Co.; David Cohen & Co.. Syfl® o
0*
OOT
t*
\S*
''Sr
OH
W
s
s
262 a
cn
tz/uZ' ffarccufh
PegA i
Z **Z!e
LIGHTEST, BEST, and CHEAPEST.
NEXT TO ROYAL “HOTEL, and at 652 GEORGE
J. MURPHY’S
CENTRAL LOAN AND DISCOUNT
, OFFICES,
CORNER OF KENT AND LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite George-street.
MONEY LENT AT THE LOWEST RATE OF INTEREST
IN THIS CITY
Loans from Is. to £lOOO, at lOd. in the £
per month.
Loams on Gold and Silver Jewellery, Clothing,
and every description of Portable Property,
granted at Rates never before attempted in this
Colony, iai i m r ' lAiii .
American Geld and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murphy’s Central Loan and Dis-
count Offices, corner of Kent and Liverpool
streets, opposite George-street.
THE AUSTRALIAN
AND FINANCIAL
LOAN, DISCOUNT,
COMPANY (Limited).
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO sterling.
RESERVE, £23,200 sterling.
SYDNEY
BANKING PREMISES.
Head Office:
CORNER YORK and MARKET STREETS.
Current accounts opened, drafts and bills negoti-
ated, and all kinds of usual banking business
transacted
DEPOSITS RECEIVED,
and interest allowed.
At Call, 5 Per Cent.
3 Months, Per Cent,
fi Months.. 8 Per Co*U*
12 Months, 8j Per Cent.
Current Accounts: Interest allowed on daily
balance to eredit. By Order of the Directors.
o, O 0
STOREY, NOBLE
AUCTIONEER 3 ’
General Commission 48$ ■
CORAKI, RICHMOND
Try .
FOB TTA/ r^ p
MUSICAL INSTBL^
. tneCoV**
The Largest Assortment m
705 GEOROBSTR®*
Send for^PriceJ^^^^jO^
"^sr s
JIHB CLIMAX OF *
MONTSERRATS.
LIME FRUIT JUICE j
SOLD
F. T. F ODEN A.
IND ™Sf^
Sydney, 0*
For Every DescriP 1 - &
INDIA RUBBER G
LATE ROWLANDS Sc LEWIS, . a
Manufacturer of all kinds of Crated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Vigo rllJ 1
3 1 and 33
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, a*d at
HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
Calcutta Bxhibition awarded |the ONLY GOLD||MEDAL for Crated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs, Bitters,
