

The Bulletin
NEW SERIES
sd
A. GENTUINE SAT.t;
(For Six Weeks Only) of
NUIS, ORGJIS, t MISIS.
at 15 per cent, discount off list prices; ORGANS, at 25 per cent, discount off list
prices ; MUSIC, At one-third and one-fourth the marked price !
Every Instrument guaranteed for Seven Years.
PAYMENTS. CATALOGUES AND PRICE LIBTS ON APPLICATION.
& GO., 325 George Street, Sydney.
4LL
Taj s MOBT
Elegant
*
* lCaxx buggies,
and Express
Wa 93ons.
gpjtnTALT.Y FOS GJTT OS COUNTRY USB.
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY,
AX
LOWEST PRICES.
UDnimuco.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
Lt®T RVi&Y VEHICLE GDAB4NTEK .


ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
OWING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
Hydrants. BMp and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &o.
Braes and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing
Plumbing, Gaafitting, Tanx and Girder Building, Eleotrio and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
DOULTON’g "FLUSH-OUT.” "VALVE,” & "PAN” CLOSETS, "VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &o.
Sole Agents for Verify Bros. Patent Am Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls. Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD STORKS, 8 & S Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application.
SCHWEITZER’S COCOATINA.
Anti-Dyspeptic or Cocoa Chocolate Powder.
GUARANTEED PURE SOLUABLE COCOA OP THE FT NEST QUALITY, WITHOUT SUGAR OR
aDMIXjI URh,.
The Faculty pronounce it, the “most nutr.tious, perfectly digept ble beverage for Breakfast
Luncheon, or Supper;" aud invaluable for lavslias end Yo.ng Children.
Being absolutely “ an Cocoa,” with the rx<-ets of fat extracted, is f< ur times the strength of prepara-
tions thickened yet weakr ntd wnh arrowroot, starch, &o„ and in reality cheaper than such
mixtures, a teasp icnlui to a bniakfxftt cup cub log Hss than one halfpenny.
COCOATIVA is ine test Coc« a for Indh and toe Colonies keeping for years in all climates, being in
a concentr. ted form. Made instantaneously with Dotting «at-i, aud palatable without milk.
Celebrated for remarkable sustaining Properties. Specially adapted for early Break-
fa'ts. Adopted as a Medical r omfort in the Royal Navy.
Retailed by chemists, Grocers. Ac., in Air-tight Tins, at Is. (id., 3s , ss. 6d., &c.
Wholesale by the bole Proprietors,
ECH Vf ITZEB & CO., 10 AD4»-'TBE»r, »T AND, W.C., LONrrON,
ANIi all wholesale MOUSES
ORa^-iirs!
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
BRUCE & MASSEY,
197 Pitf-st , Sydney.
P. B. LARKIN,
Importer of Wines and Spirits,
Bee'S to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just completed extensive additions
to his WHuLEhAtK ana HKl'olii BOTI i,h, ■ , which is now replete with
a well-assorted stock of the Best Brands of Wines and Spirits, personally selected
by the proprietor during- his recent visit to Europe.
He can therefore confidently recommenu the Quality, and by charging a reasonable price, hopes to
merit a share of their patronage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
ENGLISH ALES and a'loUT. OE ALL BRANDS, Is. **ACH PER QUART.
THE FINEST BttANDS cf W«I'KY BRANDIES, PORIS, SH RRKIKS. CLA RETS, and CHAM-
PAGNES. at the Lowest Piict-s obtaiaabie i , .’>drey.
A trisl will convince you. Special Piices for Cases of the above.
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, all returns being
allowed lor. Cas s of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at the Railway
Station or any wharf in the city, or any country station. Free of Charge.
P. R. LARKIN’S CASE OF ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS.—On receipt of £3, the following
genuine articles will be forwarded in Square Bottles, securely packed in a case
5 Quarts KEY GIN, 1 Quart WHISKY, 1 Quart SUPERIOR PORT WINE,
3 Quarts PALE BRANDY, 6 Quarts WEST INDIA RUM, 1 Quart SUPERIOR SHERRY WINE
TOTAL-15 QUARTS.
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are ail guaranteed of the best quality, and have
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, please make Post Office
Orders payable at the Haymarket Post Office.
Kindly Note the Address—
P. R. LARKIN, Whohsale & Retail Wme & Spirit Merchant A Importer B
George and Gipps Streets, Haymarket, Sydney.
J
/ft
stO'
:
in
c#
Genuine
t-conomicai
Oocoa
Makers to the Queen
Caterer and Confectioner,
684 GEORGE STREET.
GT WKT>T»TNOR. BALLR. PTCNICB. A WT> P tRTTER A RH«nur,rTV
SCHOTT «Sc CO.,
MUSIC SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HBB MAJKBTY THE QUEEN.
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N B.W ;
Also, at London, Mayence, Paris, and Brussels.
t3T LARGEST BT OCK Tn THE COIONIFS.
KHESHAIVS
STAR & GARTER FAMILY HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
rrtHIS Hotel is centrally situated, bclne close to Post and Telesrraph Office. Theatre. Tramway kv
I Superior Acooounodati'jn lor Families am) Commercial Gentlemen, h irst-claas Wines an.i spirit.
*fhe most Gomlortabie ana t ommodious Private Bar in the city.
JET aiMMLO, SXZX.,
107 Fitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
ROBERTS, M.™ d 1
(J. A. ROBERTS. K. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMBRS. R. G. WATKIN^
GENERAL IRONMONGERS'
M i mi
Importers of
STEAM BNGDtfES, ENGINEERS' TOOLS and REC
RAILWAY AND OTHER CONTRACTORS’
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANX, PD MRS, i;u/
MATERIALS, SQUATTERB’ SUPPLIES, &o.
BAR, PLATE, BHKET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED OORRU-
GATBD and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILB, PAINTS, and
BRUSH WARE
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACKB
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
BfUSCBI
m
FT
y»i.u
po
and SB* o
GINBS
ocJl
ZONTAI'
TB A M
PUMPS
atsb^ (
BHAPI?
and
(TBAM 0
HtW
'ASSV
gUICKSB-
Prlro Lists and Catalosmes furnlsaed on application*
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, &
Head Warehouse -
Iron an I Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Olio* -
- 64 YORK STREET,
- HAY
- HARBOUR
|RK STREET,
AND ENGINE
30 UR STREET, DARL1 j * w
4
SYDNEY:
- « gkaoboruroh
Alex. Borthwick. q\ss
WALLPAPER, PAINT, Ac. e f
201 O-eorgre-st., i
OFFORD & CO.’S HA l!
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest, a
Next to Royal Hotel, and at 652 George y J
The FOLLOWING GOODS
ARE VERT VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Corn Faint, Is.
Asiatic Liniment, 2s.
That Modern Appetiser—The Australian Relish—ls
A. Boyer’s Baking' Powder (free from alum), 6d.
Page’s Custard Powder, 4 in box, Is.—makes two
quarts fine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linctus, for coughs. Is.
Claytrn’s Nervine, for toothache and cold in the
gums, Is.
or. Barbarossa’s Cantharldes and Russian Bear’s
Grease Oil, for covering bald patcnes and pro-
ducing whiskers, 2s. 61.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL Sc CO.,
177, 268 and 266 PITT STREET.
ARTIFICIALTEETH
Complete: sft
MARSHALL BRO?
DENTISTS
133 ELI Z ABETH ST
'bid# l,
M
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENCINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE STO c
NEWE «
HIGHEST FIN'S”
i m/i/Fsr cod
/
fy
/
/
f#
ESTIMATED
LOCOMOTIVES, TUG B^
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET.
0
FREE
be found Q f f
LIFE,” for the speedy f nll 1
Lost Manhood, De»P B t f f
this book will be Bt,at
penny stamps. Addre #


THE BULLETIN
Vol 4 -No. 158 -New Series.
SATURDAY, MAY 22, 1886.
Frioe—B4.
The Key of the State Treasury.
The Bulletin.
BATURDAY, MAT 22. 1886.
The disclosures in the N.B.W. Parliament
concerning the “Australian Portrait Gal-
lery” and the “History of the Soudan Con-
tingent” once more prove the pressing
necessity of putting some effectual check
upon the disbursement of public monies.
In these cases the sums thrown to the wind
to gratify the mean, miserable ambition of
the party in power, do not astonish by their
magnitude, so much as by the selfish profli-
gacy which they denote, and the immunity of
Ministers from all practical responsibility in
their dealing with the national funds. We
are accustomed to believe that the expendi-
ture of all monies is controlled by Parlia-
ment : here is an instance of payments made,
not only without authority of Parliament,
but certainly against its wish. Yet no one
can say that there is anything positively
illegal, or even unconstitutional in the
action of Ministers in making these pur-
chases, norland this is the important point,
is there any reason whatever why, under
the present system, the Ministry or any of
their successors should not spend money
still more wastefully, selfishly, and foolishly
—if that be in any way possible, and up to a
thousand times the amount. Why should the
House trouble with Estimates for the year
if the Treasurer is allowed to dip into the
public purse to purohase any gew-gaw,
literary or otherwise, that takes his fancy ?
The Act of Appropriation is a solemn farce
while Ministers are able to grab at their
pleasure and with impunity, sums which
the House, unless coerced by the fact of the
money having been already paid, would
certainly refuse to gran f .
* * *
Any student of English Constitutional
History knows that it was only their con-
trol of the public monies which enabled the
Commons to maintain and increase their
power in the Commonwealth. The liberty
which we now enjoy was bought not by the
blood of our ancestors, but with their sub-
sidies. Many of our best laws were, as Hal-
lam states, “in the most literal sense ob-
tained by a pecuniary bargain with the
Crown. The sale of redress was chaffered
for as distinctly as the most legitimate busi-
ness between two merchants would be
transacted,” Had Charles I, or Elizabeth,
or Henry VIII been able to raise money
without the authority of Parliament, Eng-
land would at once have been placed under
«|th‘3 rule of a despotism tempered only by
assassination, and, appreciating to the full
the value of their prerogative of finance, the
Commons surrounded that prerogative with
safeguards which to this day prevent the
Monarch or her servants, the Ministers,
from touching a penny that is not already
voted. These safeguards are not noticed in
the written Constitution, and were not in-
troduced here when Responsible Govern-
ment was conceded, and the checks in
the New South Wales system are so
’feeble that each successive Premier has
'defied the power of Parliament to re-
strain his band in the expenditure of
the public funds. Sir Henry Parkes, when
tin power, continually added largely to the
expenditure without Parliamentary war-
rant. It is only just to him to say that his
purchases, with the exception of those
“works of art,” were always made with
admirable judgment, and have bean in nearly
every case magnificent public investments.
'Still, his freedom in making them, and his
independence of the Assembly, show clearly
enough that Ministers have powers which
jshouid not, under any circumstances, be
allowed to them. The following Ministry,
that of Sir Alexander Stuart, spent
money quite as independently as Sir Henry
had done, not nearly so wisely, and hardly,
perhaps, with the same immunity of sus-
picion. The largest single item of unauthor-
ised expenditure was involved in that
Soudan Expedition which, illegal from its
inception, was a source of infinite loss to the
country, and infinite private gain to the
renown of Ministers responsible for its des-
patch. Had not the Ministry been able to
grab money from the Treasury, without
consent of Parliament, it is exceedingly pro-
bable that this national farce would never
have been placed upon the political stage.
THE LATE MR. HUGH GEORGE.
And, to descend from great things to small,
another instance of the Treasurer s practical
irresponsibility to Parliament is seen in the
subsidising of the precious volumes, “The
Australian Portrait Gallery ” and the “ His-
tory of the Soudan Contingent.” Take the
former first, the “Portrait Gallery.” We
fail to find this volume on sale at the
stationers' shops in Sydney: it does not seem
to be offered to the public. The publishers
seem rather to have depended upon the
Government subsidy to oover the total
cost of publication. The Government
subsidy, for the purohase of 500 copies
can be called by no other name, amounted
to £6OO. Private members were, it is
affirmed by Mr. Young, asked to give £5
each for copies of the precious volume, but,
as against this, they were allowed to write
their own biographies—an invaluable privi-
lege to men of the O’Connor, Dalle r, and
Buchanan order! Was the difference be-
tween £1 4s. and £5 the precise amount of
extra expense involved in printing a “puff-
ing” rather than a “slating” notice? Or
was a reduction allowed to the Treasurer on
his taking a quantity ? Or was it thought
that the Ministry, being as they are therein
described a set of inspired statesmen, should
have the copies cheap; while the prominent
members of the Opposition, being, as some
of them are therein pourtrayed, a very in-
ferior set of fellows, should have to pay more
for this lovely volume, the “Australian
Portrait Gallery”? Sir Patrick J ennings
will have to fence with more than his usual
skill to answer these questions. Then about
the “History of the Soudan Contingent.”
This book so teems with fulsome eulogy of
Plain Bill in particular, and the Stuart
Ministry in general, that one long howl of
derision would have greeted its distribution
in New South Wales. How is this to be
accounted for ? Did the Ministry instruct
Messrs. Myers and Hutchinson to write the
book in this style? If so, the Ministers used
publio money to meanly, selfishly, and dis-
honestly gratify their own vanity. If this
was not the case—and we are told by Mr.
Myers, in the Sydney Daily Telegraph,
that it was not —the writers named musi
have erred in their task, with the result tha
the book produced is only fit for distribu-
tion in London, where Sir Alexander
Stuart now is, and where the characters o:
New South Wales politicians are, fortu-
nately,for the credit of the oolony, unknown.
It seems impossible that two practised
leader-writers for the daily papers could
have blundered so. They had doubtless
written a great deal of leading matter
in support of the expedition and the
Ministry which sent it, and no doubt ex-
pected to write much more both in praise
of the Contingent and the Stuart Cabinet.
Possibly they were carried away by their
enthusiasm, generated either by the Contin-
gent or by the £lOO and £l2O which they
received for the work ,
* * *
There is another more important) but les®
glaring, matter in connection with the finan-
cial feats of Mr. Dibbs. It is his trick of
spending money not included in the Esti-
mates-in-Chief, and then coming down
with so-called Supplementary Estimates of
three-quarters of a million at the end of
the year. These latter were not “Esti-
mates” in any sense of the word. They
were almost entirely lists of amounts paid
in anticipation of the sanction of Parlia-
ment. And the Assembly was obliged to
rote them. It had no alternative. The
money had been nearly all paid away*
nothing remained for members but to as-
sent. Even if the money had been thrown
into the sea, it had gone from the Treasury.
Those who had received it would laugh at
the idea of re-payment. Practically, Mr.
Dibbs, with the consent of the Cabinet, was
the Parliament of the oountry, for he could
deal with the funds as he chose. There was
no check upon his single will. The Assembly
might spend laborious nights in disoussion
of trivial increases, and trumpery grants,
but this was a mere formality. He could
keep out any sum, large or small, from the
Estimates-in-Chief, pay it even while mem-
bers were worrying over items utterly in-
significant in relative importance, and then
show it months after on the supplementary
list—not of sums required, but of amounts
paid. And nothing has since been done to
prevent any Treasurer from doing likewise.
At the present moment while the Assembly
is contemplating unimportant reductions in
departmental votes, Sir Patrice Jennings is
empowered to pay away thousands for any
vicious and wasteful purpose, that a less
careful and conscientious man might select
as a vehicle for extravagance. He might do
this, and nothing need be heard of it until
the Supplementary Estimates are laid on the
table for the mere formality of confirmation
by the Assembly, The plain fact is, that the
Assembly has handed over to the Treasurer
the keys of the Treasury with authority to
scatter national funds in whatever direction
fancy may dictate or self-interest indicate.
* * *
It is time that all this was altered. The
integrity of all past Treasurers and of the
present one may be unimpeachable, but the
future must be provided for. Some Trea-
surer may arise who, pretending land is
wanted for railway purposes, may give
£loVlCO—not for an estate like that which
Sir Henrv Parkes bought at Evelelgb,
worth the amount, but for a block worth
£60,000, and pocket the balance as commis-
sion. Or another Cabinet may desire to let
posterity know of their imagined virtues,
and employ an editor and publisher to pro-
duce a book which shall be as well stocked
with flattering lies about themselves as it is
with libels on their opponents; or, again, a
future Ministry may pay Sydney journalists
immense sums for but little work as an in-
ducement to those writers to bolster up a
Cabinet that deserves to fall. These things
have not yet been done, but there is nothing


except the absence of corrupt Ministers to
prevent their accomplishment. It is bad
enough that the State finances should pass
from the control of Parliament; it is a
thousand times worse that the door should
be left open to the possibility of such cor-
ruption as we have endeavoured to imagine
and describe.
* ■ ■
To find the true method of bringing the
expenditure of all moneys under the direct
and complete control of the Assembly we
must hark back to the source whence our
Parliament was derived~the Parliament of
England. We have already alluded to the
safeguards the House of Commons has de-
vised for protecting its prerogative of appro-
priation. The chief of these is the supervi-
sion of the Exchequer which may best be
understood by this excerpt from Hearn's
“ Government of England,” descriptive of
the prooess necessary for the issue of money
from the Home Treasury
“ When the Treasury requires money either for
its own use or that of any department it obtains a
toyal sign manual warrant prepared in a specified
form, and authorising the issue of the required
Sum; and, thereupon, directs to the Exchequer
Certain instruments styled Treasury warrants and
issuing letters. It then becomes the duty of the
Comptroller-General of the Exchequer to ascer-
tain whether Parliament has agreed to the pote to
which the royal warrant refers; whether the Bill
for providing Ways and Means applicable to such
a vote has become law, and whether the sign
manual reciting the special purposes of the vote
and not exceeding its amount, the Treasury war-
rant and the issuing letter are in substance and in
form conformable to law. If he be satisfied that
each of these five indispensable conditions has
been duly fulfilled he then gives his warrant for
the issue of the amount.”
There is in New South Wales no efficient
analogous process. The system here may
be briefly described thus: “ when the
Treasurer wants money for anything
he goes and draws it.” If it is not
to the credit of one fund it may be
procurable from another. At the present
time it is whispered that £109,000 in one lump
has been debited to an account that was
intended for quite another purpose, and
Sir Patrick Jennings proposes to follow
the evil example of his predecessors by
drawing an advance against loan expendi-
ture, presumably from the Consolidated Re-
venue, so as to keep away from the London
money market until the end of the year,
although the general loan fund will be
exhausted within less than two months from
the present, This means that two millions
must be debited and then afterwards
credited to the funds that are in no way
liable for the expenditure. Such political
oooking of accounts* whether for a good or
bad purpose, should not under any imagi-
nable oiroumstances be permitted. It is an
insult to the House which is called together
to deal with the finances: it is a temptation
to a Treasurer to pervert funds for a more
questionable purpose; and it is an evil ex-
ample for the country. In England, as Hearn
shows) nothing of the kind would be per-
mitted. Mr. Gladstone does not come down
at the close of the year with receipted bills
for services never ordered by the House,
amounting to 10 per cent, of the year’s
expenditure, and causing a deficit cf one-
eighth of the annual revenue, as Mr. Dibbs
did last year. Any unforeseen expenditure
has to be explained by an English Ministry
before payment is made* and credit vote
obtained therefor. The same system must
be adopted here. The Treasurer’s advance
of £loo*ooo must be dispensed with, and a
new department added to the Audit Office
to effectually provide against further mis-
use of Government money. The work of
the Audit Office now is comprised for
all practical purposes in the mere check-
ing of accounts for the discovery of clerical
and technical blunders. Its functions are
retrospective and devoid of regard for the
will of Parliament. The new department
must act prospectively regarding the publio
funds to prevent this wastefulness, and
the oooking of publio accounts. Then, and
not till then, will the autoorats of office be
prevented from paying extravagant sums
for outrages in art, libels in literature, and
panegyrics in “portrait galleries.”
The Murderer, Liddiard—the Murderer,
P ociety.
The determination of the New South Wales Exe-
cutive to have the execution of William Lid-
diard, the Wardell murderer, oarried out, excites
no surprise. All neoessary legal formulae were, in
his case, satisfactorily completed. The infamy
that blackened the moral character of the chief
witness for the Crown did not seriously impair the
evidence, for testimony otherwise procured from
18 different sources established the truth of the
self-confessed adulterer’s declarations. Liddiard,
it is admitted, and can hardly be denied, mur-
dered Noonan. The poor beggarly scrambler for
a subsistence on a selector’s little sugar-cane plot
had thought to add to the sunshine of his life by
marrying a woman. To his dull soul bright f
breathing visions no doubt came. His boor’s in-
tellect, startled from a life of litter, arose above
the price per cwt. of maize or sugar-cane. Love
lived. Dreams reigned. The sodden stupor built
up by years of brutish labour fell away. And the
woman ? Well, what is Wardell that it should
egcape the curse of Troy ? Liddiard found that
one of his labourers named Noonan held guilty
intercourse with his wife. He got his gun, he got
his tomahawk. One evening, when the sun was
setting, he chopped Noonan to pieces in the cane-
brake, squeezed the mutilated body into a bag,
forced another labourer to assist him to the river
with the ghastly load, and, rowing along the rip-
pling waters, he dropped his burthen into the deep.
Murder, however, will out. The revenge was
wrought 12 months ago. On the 20th of April last
a jury in the Grafton Assize Court found Lid-
diard guilty, and Acting-Judge Knox passed the
sentence the law directs.
* * *
Liddiard murdered Noonan. Society will now
murder Liddiarlo. The distinction supposed to
lie between killing done by a corporation and kill-
ing done by an individual, is unreal. For matters
of commercial or social value a distinction be-
tween the two tribunals is useful and necessary.
But the opinion of any number of individuals
taken in the mass is only a multiple of the in-
dividual opinion. It is not a different essence.
The fallibility of the individual as to incident, to
sanity, to the right to hang, or to any right,
leavens the sum total of the conclusions of the
mass. A stream does not rise higher than its
source. In ordinary affairs no irreparable injury
springs from taking a corporate opinion as a basis
for action. A rule of averages has play. If under
the corporate opinion a man be unjustly im-
prisoned he possesses the right to a claim for com-
pensation. Inherent fallibility is thus atoned for.
But there are subjects from the determination of
which, according to his own ideas, the individual
is precluded. He cannot kill when he thinks it
right to do so. Now, in such cases, where are we
to look for the principle which gives to a multi
tude of these individuals the right to set aside this
prohibition ? No one can confer that which i 3 not
his. Can, then, the individual who possesses no
right to kill confer the right to kill upon himself
when collected into a society with others? Can
this society which denies to the single members
the right to kill, itself exercise the right? If so,
whence does it derive it? It must be from a source
outside human reason, or from human reason. If
the first, the constitution of modern society cuts
the ground from it. If the second, how has it
purged itself of the fallibility of its component
parts? Again, from the opponents’ side, if we
admit that killing by society is justifiab’e there is
evolved from this general right, conferred by in-
dividuals, the root of the individual right to kill.
Thus, either the individual is dowered to kill, or
society has not the right.
* * n
On many subjects there is much thoughtlessness in
the way man makes over his conscience to Society
or the State. In the infancy of our race the prac-
tice was intelligible. In the medioeval ages it was
also intelligible. We had gods, then, over us.
Their voices were in the thunders. They drove
the winds in the midnights, and kindled the
sun in the mornings. Through the white,
wide spaces their hands reached down and guided
us along. We walked from sorrow to joy, and
when at the last we fell asleep we knew soft
fingere would open our eyelids, and that we
would leap transfigured into a realm of
infinite delight. Laws in those years were divine
laws. Ears heard, as the commandments fell, the
beating of an omnipotent heart. What wonder
was it that in such circumstances men cast out
their reason and with uncovered heads rushed to
obey authoritative behests ? Now these gods are
all practically dead. It looks as if for evermore
they shall lie dead. The world is to-day worldly.
It takes sole charge of its own affairs, and, unless
in its scientific results, the business of the infinite
azure does not concern it. What, then, is the pre-
sent relation between man and law ? Law is partly
his creation. Law is a thing he helped to make in
an hour when he was serious, or in an hour when
he was humorous, and so long as it serves his pur-
pose he will observe it. But what is its abstract
value, its eternal significance, its absolute power
to oblige ? What is its sacredness, its sanctity, its
inviolability? It is a fallible issue of fallible
thoughts, a thing in season for a period, but
doomed to extinction as surely as Is the source
from which It sprang. Can there, theD, a man be
found who, in the plenitude of his intellectual
health, will, after thought like this, hand over his
conscience to a Statute book? Intellectually,
he stands erect before the book ; morally l
he stands erect before its makers. He is
awake. In him is power co-equal with their
power—authority to determine what is right,
authority to determine what is wrong. When
through vibrating air commandments fell as from
the lips of Infinitude it was human for him to
crush the head of his reason and to obey. But,
now! Every man's reason is the judge of the laws
he should obey.
• * *
The surrender of individual conscience to the
State is a characteristic of phlegmatio nations.
There are nations specially phlegmatic when the
interests of humanity at large are at stake that are
not so on any other occasion. Men, vaguely aware
that there are brutality and horror in tearing the
skin from a wretch’s spine, or in hanging him
from an Bft. rope, shrug their shoulders and leave
the question to the authorities. If told that legal
forms have been fulfilled they are fully appeased.
Consequently, ancient barbarisms flourish among
these when they have become almost extinct in all
actively humane nations. No civilised country in
the world has so bloodstained a criminal code ag
New South Wal s. From almost every part of
civilisation the " cat ” hai dropped down into the
slough where penal blunders of barbaric jurists
lie among blood and tears that ought never
to have been shed. Seldom does an ex-
ecution take place in France. The scaffold,
it was cried aloud the other day by the Dibitio,
no longer exbts for Italian*. In Austria, im-
prisonment substantially supersedes the death
penalty. In Belgium imprisonment is the invari-
able substitute. In mo3t of the States of America
imprisonment takes the place of the gallows.
But in N. S. W. we tlog for everything we take
afancy to, and keep on our register 21 offences*
excluding wilful murder, for any one of which a
man may be ordered to be hanged. Have we
not here evidence that our law-makers bring to
their work consciences made up of the stuff and
B haped in the mould of an old dead time ? They
find no cause for reflection in the fact that the
dripping triangles have been taken down else-
where. Quite undisturbedly they write that
hangings shall go on, although elsewhere exe-
cutions are abandoned as things found to have
produced no good result. To them the whiz of
the whip carries the charm it carried a century
ago. The broken-necked wretch blown by the
wind at the end of a rope is still the lesson he ages
ago was counted. Here the phlegm of the com-
munity assists. Its conscience on human regrets
has been surrendered to the Slate. The outcome
is the perpetuation of barbarity, more blood and
more murder.
* * *
Liddiard’s is a low life, we admit, and at its
going out there will be neither darkening of sun
nor earthquake. But the choking of the soul out
of the grizzly pig-feeder, cattle-tender, and cane-
grower cannot be effected legally at the end of a
rop swung from a gaol gallows without the mo-
mentous question of the head and front of human
rights forcing a passage through the sick socialities
and political trickeries with which the public mind
is surrounded. The feel of murder is in the air;
of liddiard the murderer, in the first instance*
and of Society the murderer in the second. They
face civilisation: Liddiard with a tomahawk in
his hand in the caDe-brake with the evening sun
shining into his red eyes; Society, with ar.pein
its knuckly fist at the foot of the gallows, with the
morning sun rising over the walls of the gaol-
yard; the one the representative of an individual
idea of right, the other the representative of a
corporate idea of right; each finite, fallible;
neither commanding power to undo it* deed in the
wide long halls of the future; neither knowing
anything of the ultimate purposes of our vagrant
existence; of why the earth rolls and the sun,
shines and birds and beasts are alive; or of why a
sad glad heart was thrust into the keeping of a
short-sighted capricious human intellect. The??,
the representatives cf the individual, and the re-
presentative of the corporats idea of what is right
front civilisation as the two murderers of to-day.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Burdekin and Beer.
Mr. Burdekin, M.P. for East Sydney, objeets to
the proposed taxation of land and income. His
objactions are based upon “principle.” By a
strange coincidence his views accord admirably
with his evident interest. These coincidences
usually occur when wealthy men are brought to
consider taxation which touches their own
pockets. Men of moderate means usually submit
quietly to any taxation imposed upon them: it is
not so with the rich. Their principles invariably
lead them to make a stubborn resistance when
taxation is not levied upon those who can least
afford it. But Mr. Burdekin is not with-
out expedient. He would make up the re-
quired amount from three sources: (1) by an
increased sale of the State capital in Crown
lands; (2) by reduction of 2] 4 per cent on the
Public Service Estimates; and (3) by an excise on
colonial beer. The first is a spendthrift’s alterna-
tive, the second is a legal robbery, if we are right
in considering it as an all-round reduction from
the pay of Civil servants, and the third is a mean
device for making the working olasses contribute
from their small incomes that the Burdekirs
of the country may escape. From Mr. Burde-
kin's anxiety to draw from this last source
in order that incomes over £3OO, and land worth
more than £IOO3 may be free of taxation, we
should think he bad been reading English his-
tory; for there he will find that up to the middle
of the 17th century, all but an insignificant
fraction of the national revenues were drawn
from the landholders direct ; all State ex-
penditure was provided for from this source
and;no national debt incurred. But the nobles
in the reign of the profligate Charles 11. induced
the king to part with his land revenues for £200,000
a year, which sum was wrung by the dominant
party from the poorer classes in the form of cus-
toms and excise. The landholders by constitu-
tional trickery shifted the just burdens from the
land, and ever since that date the aggregation of
estates has gone on throughout England: and the
same system prevails here, because the poor are
made to carry the load that belongs to the rich. If,
as is jusr, the lands of the colony were made to
contribute fairly to State purposes, the Coopers
and Burdekins and others who monopolise im-
mense portions of the land-wealth of Sydney,
would find their power of accumulating wealth by
adding acre to a era and house to house, dimi-
nished to an alarming degree. But a reduction of
2>£ per cent, from the screw of a Civil servant,
and a tax of 6d. per gallon on colonial beer would
not harm the land-millionaires. What matter if
adding to the burdens of the poor brings them
daily nearer to destitution: what matter if the
task which they are set is made so huge that
thousands sink to desperation and become mere
gutter-loafers, area-sneaks, and Domain-crawlers?
Is not our native aristocracy still left? Are there
not magnificent mansions at Potts Point ?
Do not millionaires daily become richer ?
These are the signs of prosperity our conser-
vative legislators delight to observe. Take Is.
3d. from the £2 10s. which Tom the navvy,
who supports his wife and six children, used to
receive; make Jorrocks, the labourer, pay a
penny a pint more for the colonial beer, the only
stimulant which he can afford, and one which is as
necessary to him as tea to the abstainer-do these
things, but touch not the yearly thousands which
men of the class of Mr. Sydney Burdekin draw
from their tenants; ask them not to pay a farthing
to the State for the land which they hold. They
are gentlemanly and aristocratic; the vulgar
navvy, the unmannered labourer, and the insig-
nificant Civil servant are the people who should
pay all these nasty low taxes. “ If,” says Mr.
Burdekin, “ we must have taxation, it should be
gathered in other forms net so obnoxious as those
proposed by the Government.” Obnoxious! To
whom ? That is the point which this statesman
will have to explain to the electors of East
Sydney.
I lie Troubles of School Teachers.
In no branch of the New South Wales Civil ser-
vice are officers more harassed, worried, atd
bullied than in the Public Instruction Depart-
ment. The particular trouble just now is the cir-
cular calling upon all who are in charge of schools
or departments of higher grade than their own to
present themselves in June or December next for
examination; non-compliance with the mandate,
or failure to pass, entailing- degradation in the
service. That a school graded A 1 should have a
teacher of similar standing is certainly desirable,
but it is very rough on teachers who have for a
long time held positions with credit to them-
selves and to the satisfaction of the inspectors
to be forced to cram again up to examina-
tion standard. The rule is an excellent
one, but it should have had a prospective
effect only: to make it retrospective is plainly
unjust. How is it possible for, say, the mistress
of a department, to devote the time necessary for
the cramming? She has to be in the class-room
during school hours: then the pupil teachers
(male and female!) have to be taught, (a work for
which no remuneration by extra salary or other-
wise is paid,) lessons arranged for the children,
next day, and at last, after odd matters incident to.
the conduct of the school or department have-
been attended to, the teacher may, if she have no
domestic labours to occupy further time, settle,
down to study for her own examinations. But
as all students know, it is impossible to do good,
work when the mind is fagged out. To keep on.
working a weary brain is to discount at a ruinous-
rate the power needed for the work of the follow-
ing day. Besides this, few mistresses who have-
been for a long time in the service are without
large domestic duties, nor is it the desire of the
department that they should be. To such a one it
is an impossibility to undergo iherequired amount
of cramming. Degradation in the service will be
her only alternative—a poor reward for one who
has faithfully served the department for 10,15, or
20 years, and is able satisfactorily to per-
form the duties of her present condition.
Another grievance which peculiarly sfflicts
this class of officers is the 4 per cent, tax on
their incomes for the benefit of the Superannua.
tion Fund. The fund is to them a lottery in which
they have only the remotest possible chance of
winning anything. If they should remain in the
service until 60 years of age, they will receive a
pension, but what female teacher hopes or wishes
to continue teaching until that age ? Girls take to
teaching that they may not be dependent on those
who would otherwise be obliged to support them,
but when they marry and the census subsequently
benefits to a gratifying extent, their domestic
duties encroach more and more upon theirtime,
until it is necessary to resign the duties of office
for the claims of the household. If this 4 per cent,
were paid to an insurance company an annuity
equal to the superannuation would be obtainable
at 60, while in the event of earlier death the
capital sum insured for would be available with
profits for the benefit of any children. But under
the Government system the teacher may toil on
to 59 years of age, and then by death or retirement
lose all claim upon the fund. This, in the case of
female teachers, is more than injustice—it is a
legalised robbery.
Holy Abraham!
Again js the sacred name of Abraham the black
beast of the M’Quade famiiy, of Sydney. In last
Saturday’s issue of the Sydney Daily Telegraph
we read the following interesting Judaic item of
information :
.injunction motion was applied for id
the Equity Court yesterday on behalf of
Frederick M’Quade to restrain one Abraham
Friedman from dealing with certain promissory
notes, given by F. M’Quade and his brother,
Herry. The former entered an affidavit showing
that in 1883, before he was of age, he borrowed
from Friedman £llOO, for which, with his brother
Henry, joint promissory notes to the sum of £3300
were given. The notes were dishonoured and a
compromise made to pay £2200, which was done.
Subsequently a further sum of £6OO was borrowed,
and a promissory note therelore entered into for
£2200, this amount including the £llOO which had
been previously struck out. This promissory note
was also dishonoured. A sum of £4OO was further
obtained, and a promissory note given for £IOOO.
The injunction was granted to the hearing of a
suit being brought by M’Qijad;e against Frihd-
man, or until a further order of the Court was
made.
In the same issue of the D.T. appears the sub-
joined paragraph:—
“ The chaplain of the United States Congress, in
opening the session on March 26, offered up a
prayer which has oused considerable sensation.
It opened as follows :-Give ear, O God of Jacob,
and enable us to see the danger which threatens
the civilized world, a revolution more tremendous
than any which history tells, in which a reign of
terror may be created in every capital in Europe
and America. The prayer went on to say that the
time had come for selfish grinding monopoly to
cease, and that rich men should learn that their
great fortunes are not given to be spent in their
own pleasures.”
One of these days we shall have to adopt this
prayer in Sydney. Only when it comes into use
here it will begin—“ Give ear, O God of Abra-
hamsh I ”
4.
The Gospel of Damnation.
Dr. Jefferis, the Congregational great gun of
New South Wales, whose weekly (spell it as you
please) maunderings fill a column in each of the
morning papers in Monday’s issue, prides himself,
we believe, upon the liberality of his sentiment
and the thoroughness of his logic. He professed
to have lugged his religion along with the ad*
vanning tread of modern thought, and to produce
a sample of theology meet for the requirements
of the day. (He spurns the bigotry and intolerance
of a former age. Consequently he preaches ser»
mons on current topics, and gets column reports
in the morning papers. It was in accord with the
spirit of tolerance that he denounce! on last Sun-
day the dicta of Roman Catholic prelates, who
were wont to enjoin celibacy on those who would
be pure. He scouted such dogmas with the
energy which always characterises sectarian act-
ings—
*' It was assumed,” he said, “ with an arrogance
that would be irritating if it were not that
familiarity breeds composure, that the decisions
of certain prelates of the Italian race,and of the
bygone centuriep, were to prescribe and define for
men of the Britisn race and of to-day what would
be the character and limitation of their marriage
laws.”
And having thus disposed of the pretentious
assumptions of the Italian prelates, he proceeded
to show what he himself could do in the same line.
For “ with an arrogance that would be irritating’
if it were not that the microscopic mental little-
ness of the speaker “ breeds composure,” he an-
nounced his “decision” as being that which
should “ prescribe and define for men of the
British race and of to-day, the character and
limitation of their marriage laws,” that—
“ Divorce was desecration. He did not suppose
that any could be so in f ,amous ai to look forwaru


at the time of marriage to the possibility of separ
turn; but if after marriage they took advantag
of the present or of future laws to put asunder
mutual and wicked compact what God had joine
be assured there would be a Judgment of flerv
dignation.”
Now, why should we believe Jefferis on Divorc
any more than Jerome on Celibacy ? Both pr
sume to have Divine guidance in their dicta ; boi
pretend to support their opinion with a penalty o
“fiery indignation ” against those who oppose it:
praotioe. The advancement of knowledge lon
ago spurned the commands of the advocates o;
celibacy, and Jefferis is still in the mist of ancien
superstition, and the shadow of medioeval igno
ance, if he believes that the m ajority of men of to
day will care the toss of a button for his “judg
ment of fiery indignation.” Most Reverend Doctor
to you this may be piety, but to us it seems th
rankest of blasphemy to drag in the “ fiery indig
nation” ofa just an! merciful God to back up th
narrow, miserable, bigoted twaddle which
pleases you to spout. Tell us, Dr. Jefferis, wh
authorised you to curse the people ? Who handec
to you this “judgment of fiery indignation,” tha
you might use it to terrify and coerce those whor
you could not persuade or lead ? You, oh mighty
Congregationalist! are right in saying that no at
tention should be paid to the blasphemous maun
derings of Italian prelates; but tell us, we ask
where is the difference in point of value between
your fulminations and theirs? Jerome was bu
the antetype of Jefferis. Or rather, Jbffehis it
but a bacterian Jerome.
4.
A Clean Bowl-out for the “ gyduoy Daily
Telegraph.”
In the middle of February last, when the Sydney
Daily Telegraph was still inflated to bursting-
point with Soudan glory, a volume called the
“Australian Portrait Gallery ” was published. As
this production surrounded things with a Soudan-
glory halo, and even possibly for other reasons
the D. T. gave it a splendid notice. But nearly
three months afterwards, when the glamour of
cornstalk militarism had become tarnished, it was
found out that tha Government had bought 500
copies of this “Portrait Gallery,” wheieupon the
D.T. waxed rageous. The two notices are a glori-
ous contrast. They are as follows: -
This (the italics are And this on the 12th
ours) was the opinion of May I 1
the paper on Feb. 16th.
“The Australian Por-
trait gallery.
i“ This is a noble result
of painstaking research
and picturesque ability—
at once a valuable addi-
tion to the historical re-
cords of the colony and a
handsome gilt-edged vo-
lume for the drawing-
room table. The lives
of 34 of the prominent
figures of two genera-
tions of colonists are set
before the reader, and
each biography is sup-
plemented by a litho-
graphic portrait from
the pencil of Mr. W.
Macleod. There is also
as an appendix, a con-
densed history of the
soudan expedition, and
;o complete the work, a
jopy of the Constitution
let. The biographies
ire written from a
tandard above that of
iarty politics. They
•eoord alike good and
>ad qualities of politi-
cians of every phase of
hought; and without
ntering into discussion
ipon the accuracy of
he criticisms freely dis-
'ersed over the entire
'olume, we may s«y
hat a rough and ready
mtice appears to have
een dealt out all round,
’he history here in so-
ition is the history of
ien s whose lives fringe
He horizon at which
nperial authority oom-
lencsd its retreat from
nr shores; and it will
a of double interest as
Bars go by in furnish-
tg what is presumably
i unbiassed account of
J w and by whom the
iriiest institutions of
'dal and political free-
were planted in
T he lives of
16 following gentle-
?> rc L “arced Sir
• S Bpbertson, Hon.
• B. Dailey, Sir Alex,
“art, sir Henry
irkes. Sir James Mar-
p’, Charles
ent worth (no doubt
f the„ special ediflea-
Htmocf t^, e P re ßent
stmaster-Ge n e r a 1 ),
‘ornas e. Mort, Bev. J.
Ba ng, D - D • Sir Ed-
laß-Thomson, Sir Chas.
wper, Archbis hop
Wing, Sir Alfred
Phen, Hon. William
eieay, Sir John Hay,
rt op » Barie r, Hon.
rton, Mr. G. R.Dibts,
Patrick Jennings,
V<>hn Macarthur,
• w -J* Triohett, the
n- Edmund Barton,
• JiMtioe Faucett, the
Sr J- S. Farnell, Mr.
th m E ° rste r. tome
I,®, later names in
list, it will be ob-
ved, are those of men
? have scarcely at-
*ed their political
® e * The selection in
n e +« ases 18 eertainiy
n to question, but it
be generally under-
ed nf he lß remem-
of whom the Go-
was com-
when the majo-
e°*. the biographies
6 issued, and also
*,\ a «
I On the motion for ad-
journment, two other
matters of some con-
siderable importance
cropped up. Mr. W
liam Clarke complained
that Government mone
had been spent in pu
chasing’ a publicatio
called “The Australia
Portrait Gallery.” Th
book in question was i
illustrated series of po
tical biographies, and:
to say the very least, j
most singular public
tion for a Ministry
identify itself with. B
i very suspicious ooinc:
lence the resources
JOth pen and j encil hav
)een exhausted in pre
lenting the portraits o
ihe men then in powe
n the most flatterin
colours. Other puhl
nen have been writte
t own with just as muc
nthusiasm as the part
n office have been writte,
ip. To purchase such
iook as this with publi
noney, and without th
anction of Parliament
res an act of which it i
ifticultto say whethe
anity or audacity isth
lore striking feature
t is one of the nations
ndertakings of the
tuart Government, ant
as helped to swell the
aflclt which has been
squeathed by that
[iuistry to the oolony
fhy, therefore, it was
ked last night, should
le present Governmeni
a held responsible ? No
>ason why, except that
le present Governmeni
asking for the money
pay for this piece of
iminal extravagance,
i this Government Mr.
ibbs is Colonial Secre-
ry, and in the Stuart
overnment he was
)lonial Treasurer,
•om the Treasurer’s
vance account that
oney came, and to re-
iburse the Treasury
r its advance its equi-
lent is now demanded.
p. Dibbs should be in-
rrogated about it. His
Ueagues should ask
m to make good this
>ney. He ha i charge
it when it was spent,
le country gave him
authority to advance
mey for the purchase
fulsome eulogies of the
tart party or stupid
sis on their opponents.
is against the
mtry’s interest t o
re these things circu-
-3d.”
likelv th° nd tiCe iS ln^eed a “ nasty Jar.” Very
largely U pon tjj!™ 8 given by the Stuart Ministry
°n the loth Feb recommendatiOD of the notice
the OovernmonVf E ° W , the D - T - savagely B i at e s
Z r thJs book which
80 lovely three short months ago.
Michael Davitt and Oxford.
i^Xts^oV^V 11 Bt ° re for the sensitive
Will h! 'f«° tor ? Unlversi ty- Some months
to pass before they will get over the
shock of having unwittingly slept one night und
the same college roof as Michael Davitt. 1
letter in the Oxford Review, forwarded to us:
few days ago, puts the case pathetically. Th
Davitt is, it is complained, “ an ex-convict, and
person of openly-expressed disloyalty.” Wei
after all, the world now knows that Davitt is anc
always was an honest man. He graduated in
larger university than Oxford. The man with
big heart who climbs step after step up the stai
of poverty, knows, when he comes to a breathin
place upon a landing, much more of the truths o
life than shaven pedants could ever teach him
Davitt did not sell his knowledge for money. 1
war the sort of knowledge that makes the weak
and downtrodden look up and fancy they behok
the dawn of a day of redemption reddening in thi
east. He gave th's knowledge away. He
gave himself, away too. He and his hearer
tried to hurry up the dawn. That wa
what made bim a convict. But he came
out without name or fame stained. No
leading man in literature thought his hand too
good to give to Davitt. A seat in the English
House of Commons was provided for him. It if
true that in a partisan sense of the term he is stil
disloyal. He insists upon having Ireland ruled by
an Irish Parliament. But in that sense Gladstone
also is disloyal. So are almost all Irishmen, ant
the greater part of Englishmen. So are very
many of the best students in Oxford itself. The
horizon is therefore gloomy to the sensitive par-
ties to whom loyalty, as they understand the
term, is the first of duties. But Oxford has a
habit of getting up gloomy horizons at great
periods. It was there Ring Edmund was mur-
dered. When William the Conqueror marched
up thejgates of Oxford were slapped in his face.
It was in Oxford that Cranmer, Ridley, and
Latimer were put to death for beiDg good Pro-
testants. The students of Oxford took up arms
against Henry 111. They made Cromwell, the
arch-revolutionist of his day, the rebel and regi-
cide, th:ir Chancellor. The loyalists of Oxford
should fortify themselves by i hinking over these
things. In such a home of political consistency
Michael Davitt may not alone sleep there again
but enter the gates and take his seat as Chancellor
at the head of the long hall.
Whfn a split comes in a theological camp, the
onlooking world has fun. Divines, as a rule, never
admit that anything they formerly said was wrong.
On the contrary, had they but one breath they
would spend it asseverating that never in their
whole individual or corporate existence had they
a single time missed the bull’s eye of abstract and
everlasting truth. Hence, when common sense
gets too much for some old cob-webbed dogma,
the divine’s retreat from the ancient orthodox
position would be ludicrously pitiable did he not
I preserve such an opera-bouffe majesty of car-
riage. This makes it simply laughable. Nothing
in the Christian system has been more authori-
tatively established than that the prayers of the
faithful could draw rain from the skies. O ver and
over again, year after year, and century after cen-
tury, this belief was acted upon, and a question
never rose within aDy fold of the Christian church
as to the revealed soundness of the practice. Out-
side, in the halls of science, doubt, however, began.
It waxed strong. It inoculated the clerical mind.
Divines set out in retreat. But did these re-
treating divines admit that they were run-
ning away from an discredited dogma? Not
at all. Bishop Mookhouse suspended the prayer
because, as he alleged, the people of Victoria
would not dig dams enough. Dean Macartney
stopped it because the Government were not
sending a sufficient number of diamond-drills
around the country. Others, who wanted to keep
on similar friendly terms with the exponents of
science, ran from the cob webbed old dogma with
excuses of a like kind. But so far in Australia no
retreat has been effected under a cover so ingeni-
ous in one sense, end, from the standpoint of a
bishop in the grand old faith before which half the
race has bent the knee, so utterly opera bouffish as
that of Dr. Stanton, Bishop of Northern Queens-
land. A couple of weeks ago, when cattle
were dying in the West and people were languish-
ing for water, some members of his fold appealed
to him to order the church prayer for rain to be
offered up, and holding science by his right hand
and his threadbare old creed by the other, this
episcopal refugee to the asylum of common sense
replied that ‘from the geographical condition of the
country sufficient rain-fall was an impossibility! ’
Why do these clerics not cut the prayer honestly
out of the Prayer Book, Bay it was put in there
when the populace believed a mitred man was
hand-in-glove with the Almighty, and that most
who now stand as teachers between the Seen and
Unseen are unprepar2d to perpetuate hollow and
farcioal imposition ? If not, why not keep on
praying as they used to do and curie science and
the sons of soienoe in the rotund terms of old ?
■ ♦
It must be a gorgeous thing to be an Agent-
General. If you are one you have chances of
dining with dukes, making merry with marquises,
and hobnobbing with royal highnesses. Mr.
Murray-Smith, the late Agent-General for Vic-
toria, has enjoyed these precious advantages to
the utmost. At the valedictory banquet given
him in London lately, a royal duke presided, and
another duke and several earls lent the lustre of
patrician presence to the proceedings. The riff-
raff of knights and oipolloi of C.M.G.’s who were
also there are not to be mentioned in the same
breath, though any one of them would be con-
sidered a personage at Potts Point. Granville
(of course) made a speech in which he suggested
that Australia should have its own military college
and “supply recruits to the scientific branches of
the army.” It is very clear that Plain Bill
has let us in for it. We are expected to
be always ready and eager to turn our plough-
shares into iieldpieces and rush to help Old Eng'
land in her hour of need. And, for these enthu-
siastic toadies, she will always be having hours of
need. If it amused them and did not hurt us we
should not care. But it does hurt us—to the ex-
tent that we are made ridiculous in the eyes of
Europe and the sensible portion of England. Our
German, French, and Italian fellow-colonists are
among the best citizens we have. How will they
like to have to contribute their shares of taxes for
the support of a contingent intended, perhaps, to
fight against their own oountrymen ? And what
other emigrants from Germany, France, or Italy
T„ we ?, XPe ?\ to come out to a country where
eir national identity is ignored whenever Old
England happens to get into a mess and has an
hour of need? What do they care for Old England
and her hours of need ? Not a farthing. They
esire to make homes for themselves, rear their
families in comfort and live at peace with all men
except, perhaps, absentee land-monopolists and
burglars. If they cannot do this in Australia they
will go elsewhere. By the way, although most of
the speeches made at the banquet turned upon the
subjeet of Australian loyalty, and several refer-
ences were made to the Contingent and its glori-
ous deeds, not a word was said about the Master
Spirit who organised and sent it forth upon its
noble mission of capricide. The name of Dalley
was never mentioned. How soon the memory of
great men passes away I How soon the cold world
forgets I But yesterday and the name of Dalley
made the Czar tremble in hid Imperial halls, and
Bismarck shudder in his shoes. Now-even if it
were bellowed through a coach-horn—it would
not frighten a goat. This is a cold, cold world I
— -+
The poets have often sung about the bells. They
have hung around them tender associations, they
have invested their brazen clamour with a glamour
to us inexplicable. Prout and Poe, and those
other sweet singers who chanted the praises of
campanology, never could have lived in the
vicinity of a Sydney church, or they would-cu:s-
ing instead of blessing—have poured out the vials
of their wrath on the heads of the bellringers and
every other church functionary up to the arch-
bishop. The ordinary “ ding, dong, dell, come to
churcb, or go to—bed,” is quite bad enough; but
when they proceed to dole out the “ Old Hundred,’,
or some other lively ditty with a lorg pause be-
tween each note, reminding you of the one-finger
tunes your big sister used to soothe you with in
your teething days, then it is that your troubles
come home to you. You are reading, or writing, or
trying to sleep, when these jarring reverberations
fall upon your brain, with a measured exactness
suggestive of the torture of the Chinese water-
tower-where, a drop of water falling from agr;at
height, at regular intervale, on the head of the
condemned, produces, first madness, then exhaus-
tion, and finally death. We are somewhat far
advanced in the first, and weekly approaching the
second stage. We long for the day when bell-
ringers shall be hanged and boiled down, their feet
made into glue, and their skins tanned under the
provisions of the New South Wales Dog Act.
Cardinal Moran's utterances on any topic what-
ever, would not receive any further attention, for
they merit none, than would those of any other
man seized in his opening manhood, crammed
with the special but useless learning of a by-
gone age, and overwhelmed with the impressive
ceremonial which antiquity has bequeathed, were
it not for his Kyardinal's hat. Had he remained
plain Father Moran and buried himself in the
work of an ordinary country priest he might have
gone on with his mole-like researches in Irish anti-
quities until possibly he had electrified the Vatican
by producing a good paying relic such as the
thigh-bone of St. Patrick, He would bave got the
Pope's blessing, some small promotion, and the
world would not be troubled with his deliverances
on the matters of science of which he has had
little time to become acquainted in the upward
scramble for a red cap. And now wisdom is sup-
posed to follow that piece of red rag. His last de-
liverance is widely printed wherein he says that
with almost the sole exception of Sir Isaac Newton
all the great discoveries have been made by
Catholics, or men who had been taught by Catho-
lics. Now,'any fool knows that till within the last
300 years or so everybody with any learning was
nominally Catholic, and the Cardinal might just as
well say that all the great discoveries were made
by men with two legs, for all his argument proves
as to the nursing of science by the church. And
his allusion to Sir Isaac may excuse us for re-
minding his adoring flock that it was mainly
through Voltaire and Madame du Chatelet’s
translations and expositions that Newton s dis-
coveries were brought before the benighted people
of the Continent. Voltaire was certainly brought
up a Catholic, and he taught Catholics. One of the
most significant lessons he taught was to treat
with derision the pretentions of mole-eyed and
ambitious prelates, whose strength lies, not in the
free support ©f intelligent hearers, but in dumb,
submissive ignorance.
+
It has become the fashion now in certain quarters
in England and Australia to make comparisons be-
tween Valentine Baker and Charles Dilke in
their capacity of morally broken-down gentlemen.
It is pointed out that the associate of the Prince or
Wales behaved “with fine instincts” when the
case came into court, whereas tbe man of the
people acted in what appeared to be the spirit of
pettifogging attorney. There is, we admit, para
doxical as it may appear, gentle manliness in crime
and there was a ray of chivalry in Baker’s be
haviour during the time Miss Dickenson’s evi
dence was under consideration. Until, however, the
whole of the Crawford case comes out (as it will i:
the Queen’s Proctor do his duty) it is premature tc
try to determine which of the fallen men is the
more gentlemanly. This we will presently men-
tion—just to keep the popular scales even—
Valentine Baker’s attempted assault on Miss
Dickenson was not an isolated turpitude. The
Prince’s associate wore a bad character in most of
tho garrison-towns he lived in. In Colombo he was
horsewhipped by a merchant named Wilson, and
he spent some time looked up in Wellicaddy Gaol
for being, on two occasions, unduly amorous. If
we are to compare the associate of royalty and
the associate of the people, let us do it right along
the line of published facts.
Albury, sitting asleep among her vine-tressed
hills, with her white feet in the clear broad river!
will one day awake and stand erect and be a great
city. From her situation alone, in the centre of a
fine agricultural district—the wines of which are,
even now, in infancy, held up to the light
and looked upon benignly by purple-beaked
epicures in remote corners of the world—and the
increment of population, this would slowly but
certainly come to pass. And when Australian
betTelT TANARUS, lrlßh H ° me Rule ' has to
a l“ lbury wlll be «>e meeting-place of
Thfln ™ nTh 8 a Victoria, and New South Wales.
™ e . n w _ ld the dutiea be abolished; then Ringwood,
of the Bridge, will find his office a sine-ure-wbic
‘!,f “”* ““f promi w™n
gaites will no longer be under the necessit
oles in rC A,h nR deirable - dutiable, art
cles in Albury, and swallowing them in orde
to pass the bridge unscathed and euchre the despo
lon their own side. We have frequently seen th
debased and furtive Victorian at his unpatrioti
manoeuvres. We have seen him, attired in th
iuins of a cabbage-tree hat, supported under h
nose by a red ribbon or a leathern strap, ride int
iS™ Y 6 have noted that he flat Proudly in h
saddle, and, with an ostentatious disregard of th
weather, generally wore no ether clothing than
shirt and a pair of trouseis. We have seen him
many hours afterwards return, disguised in a har
hat and exalted with alien rum, wearing thre
complete suits of sltp?, and trying to keep a gooc
grip on the pommel and look innocent at the
same time. Under the flag of Federated Aus
tralia these things will not be, and the peopl
over the river will gradually grow virtuou
again. The awaking may come at any momeny.
To-day there is excitement in the towD, and
clamour of bush voices in th© hotel bars. Grave
3ity fathers come upon you suddenly and lead you
nto bye-ways, and produce blocks of low-clas
road-metal, and ask you what you think of tha ,
or a specimen, and till you there’s lots more
vhere that came from, and swear you to secresy
ibout it, and carry on more like Bendigo men
han white people. There is good gold being got
n the reefs close to the town at last, and every in-
iication of more to come. For years and years
leople have rooted for gold cut hmong the grim
nils overlooking the river, but in a desultory
md half-hearted way. Gold has always been
ound in quantities almost payable, but there
sno mistake about it now. There is renewed
prosperity in the mining interest in the Bordet
!ity. From Hawkesbury, Splitters' Creek, and the
Slack Range the news is good. Who knows how
oon “ Nailean” shares mfly be bargained for under
'he Verandah ? Over all Australia a great mining
svival is taking place. It seems that as our
gricultural and pastoral prosperity fails, our
Lining prosperity increases. This is probably
ae of the worst years for farmers and squatters
lat New South Wales has ever seen, and it will
robably be famed for some of the finest gold and
lver discoveries yet made. The revelations of
ie diamond-drill may make Stawell anew
allarat—the splendid prospects of Lansell's deep
laft have made Sandhurst like an intoxicated
it-hill; Maldon is rolling in gold; .from Chiitern,
rllarat, Port Darwin, and Gympie the returns are
>od; the silver mine at Captain’s Flat, hear Quean.
iyan, is.a perfect Bonanza, as is also said to be that
'Out to be floated at Coen, in Queensland. And
Grafton they won’t listen to anything less than
)oz. of gold to the ton 1 Klmberley.may yet fur*
sh a goldfield that will support half the mining
ipulation of the world; but, alas! how many
indreds—perhaps thousand6-of poor devils will
) coflinless in those hot wastes—“wherethesouth
ind seldom wanders and the winters will not
jy ’’ before them ? The present rush is without
asen and is simply insane. Wifb the memories
Port Curtis and Port Darwin in their minds men
ght to stay where they can get Christian burial,
ir own country has good enough inducements
* those who seek to dig for gold or mine for
per, Heaven knows.
NOTICE.
The Kates oe Subschiptiow to “The BhehetIn”
are as follows : -
One year J34/— in advance
Half year 12/6 „
Quarter .. 6/6 „ „
Cheques, Drafts, and P.O. Orders, must be made
payable to J. M. HARDING, Managing Director
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
Postage-stamps of any Australian colony ao*
cepted for amounts under £1.
We read that “each N.8.W. blackfellow
now costs Government at least £6 a year, exclu-
sive of the cost of his annual blanket.” If ex-
penses go up this way and people set paid for
having been born aborigines, we shali have
Parkes’ disappoiated followers getting a blanket
apiece and starting business as blackfellows.
M. Papamiehalopoulos has been appointed
Premier of Greece. It is believed that this ap-
pointment will ensure peace. If a man with a
name like that can’t do it then is there no virtue
in syllables. And this news came just as we had
fitted out a special correspondent with a leather
shirt, a suit of tin armour, and an ecartd pack to
go to the expected seat of war! Cuss Papa-
Michalopoulosl-[Papa-Mick has declined the
honour. For this reiief, &o. -Ed. B ]
A Melbourne Argus soribe, “doing” an
infant asylum, made a most affecting discovery.
8he found that when a “mother arrives to see her
little one she rushes to the gate to welcome her
with as much eager affection as any lawfully-
begotten child could exhibit.” Oh, remarkable
phenomenon! That the child of a woman whose
misfortune it is to have loved too well should te
born with the same affectionate Instincts as the
offspring of “respectable” ladies who have sold
themsalvea to men they loathe for the sake ofa
position or a title I We know a good many “law-
fully-begotten” families in which any sign of
“ eager affection ” would be a positive outrage oh
their parentage. Inconsistent with their begetting.
la his noble “In Memoriam in the re-
collection of which let “Hands all Bound ” and the
Indo-Colontal ode be forgotten—Tennyson wrote
of—
“ That grand old name, a gentleman,
Defamed by every charlatan, .
And soiled by all ignoble use.”
The Goulburn Southern Argus, reporting the
overturning of Pooiey’s coach at Boro, says:—“On
the box were two gentlemen, and behind (outside)
were three others, Including two Chinamen.” Our
italics. A week or two ago wa meekly protested
against the association of moon-eyed and mal-
odorous Pagans with clean and Christian women
and children in our public conveyances. We pro-
test no longer. We apologise to tnose gentlemen,
and looking on the t outhern Argus paragraph
and on the Sydney Post Office carvings admit that
the Caucasian is played out.
“If spring poets were hens,” says an ex-
change, “even an editor eould afford to eat
eggs.” This is doubtful, if j spring' poets
were hens, they would send their lays to
those editors who do not record the fact
that the biggest stock ef Juvenile Clothing in
Australia is kept by oummoitield and Company,
2115 and 2!17 Hot-street, Sydney, who are pow show-
ing some pretty little suits at half-a-guiuea.*


Personal
I tems
f *Mr. Hugh George’s sudden death of heart-
disease was Indirectly due to exhaustion Induced
by the tedious railway journey from Sydney to
Melbourne.
“ Earl Shaftesbury has blown out his
brains in Regent-street.” This is satisfactory ai
showing that at least one member of the hereditary
legislature had some brains.
The departing David Buchanan has a final
fling at the opponents of the N.B.W. Divorce
Extension Bill. He wants to know why the clergy,
following up their liberal interpretation of Scrip-
ture, don’t sell all their goods and give to the poor.
Why, indeed ? But why doesn’t Dawvid.'who is
ultra-orthodox ?
General MTver hav-
ing failed to organise an
exploring party has de-
termined to work his way
Into New Guinea as an
ordinary tourist.
The letters which
form the words “ The
Right Honourable W. E.
Gladstone, Prime Minis-
ter,” can be anagramma-
tised so as to spell the
sentence, “ Get him,
wronged Erin, to estab-
lish Home Rule in part! ”
We don’t know why
the Sydney Echo should
make such a fuss about
the incident of a "piece
of blue paper being
thrown into the Queen’s
carriage by the man
Brown.” Victoria has a
good billet and needn’t be
afraid of writs.
The oldest foreign
resident in Fiji died the
other day, at the com-
paratively early age of
130. He was a Manilla
man named Autikoi, and
landed in Fiji, with two
companions, about the
year 1804. He stood by
Cakebau through the
many wars that lent a
lustre to the reign of that
spirited monarch. And
now he is dead. It is said
that he lied with his usual
ease and cheerfulness to
the last. The statement
of his age was given with
his last breath. He then
turned over and expired
to slow music.
During the hearing
of the celebrated “ Bryce
v. Rusden ” case the sub-
ject of Maori cannibalism
was alluded to by the
lawyers. Baron Huddles-
ton asked Sir John Gorst,
who defended Rusden,
whether he had ever
heard about a Mr. Thomp-
son, who in 1842 was sent
to N.Z. as a police magis-
trate, and who, if report
spoke truly, met with an
untimely fate. Sir John
replied in the negative,
and Baron Huddleston
explained that it was re-
ported at the time that
Mr. Thompson, who had
gone into a Maori district
to adjudicate on a Native
lawsuit, was, after the
trial was over, killed and
eaten by the parties to
the suit. He was very
thin. So is this story.
Mr. Charles Gillespie,
proprietor of the'.Kairori
Hotel, Wellington (N.Z),
had a narrow escape from
being massacred by the
Maories (when a lad of 15)
about 30 years ago. At
that time his father, his
elder brother, and him-
self, were working on a
farm in the Hutt district,
which was garrisoned by
soldiers, the natives being
then in a state of chronic
“rebellion” against the
Government. One day
Charles left his father
and brother in the hut,
preparing dinner, and
went a message for one
of the soldiers on duty in
the neighbourhood. He
was gone only a few
minutes. On his return,
he entered the dwelling,
and instead of finding his
dinner ready as he ex-
pected he was horrified to
see his father and brother
lying on the floor, welter-
ing in their blood, the
father quite dead, and the
brother able only to say
that the Maories had
tomahawked them, and
that he hoped he would
be kind to their mother,
who was then living in
Wellington, before he
also expired.
At the recent Brisbane encampment a
swell volunteer officer reported the sentry for
not having saluted him. The sentry explained
that he took the officer, who was in shirt-sleeves,
for a cook he knew.
Thadeus O’Kane reoently slated in his
Jiaper a Southport parson for borrowing a hat
rom him at the seaside resort, and forgetting to
return it. In a late issue of the Northern Miner
Thaly laments that he received the hat by post
With Is. lOd. to pay on it.
“Areladies allowed to view the gaol?”
asked a recently-appointed assistant hangman of
the governor of a certain big Australian prison.
" Sometimes,” replied the gaoler. “ Well, then,”
remarked the A.H., “ I suppose there’s no hob-
jecttons to my showin’ my daughter over the plaoe
next Wednesday.”
The Greek Minister, whose name is sending
the “ readers ” of the Sydney dailies to the mad-
house, is an Irishman, Greeoifled. Papamiohael-
opoulos is really nothing more than modern Greek
for Patrick Michael O'Pope The oulos at the end
is a corruption of alas—the Irish ochone. See what
it is to know languages!
Mr. W. H. Uren is to be the new Minister
oflMines in Victoria. W. H. is a Cornishman who
has had three or four dabs of whitewash from a
Yankee brush, is a great man in municipal matters,
and has been long connected with mining. He is a
jelly good fellow, and the choice has been largely
determined from the fact of his seat being certain
and his representing a large mining constituency.
An employer sought authority from the
Court at Cobargo to cancel his agreement with a
governess on the ground that her pronunciation
was defective. It does take a little time to learn
“ English how she Is spoke in Cobargo. As
Magistrate M’Donald said, “ I grawnt the request.
A teacher wha camna speak English with the
proper pronoonseashun has nae beezness to under-
tak the j uties.”
Once when Sir Garnet Wolseley asked
General Preston, an ex-Confederate, at a dinner
party at Montreal, if the South could not have
held out longer, he replied:—“ As a mere matter
of physical endurance, yes; but do you know, sir,
that in the four years of war through which wo
passed, the Seuth alone, with a few millions of
people, lost more men In battle than England did
in all its wars from William the Conqueror to
Queen Victoria 1”
Lord Carington received nine addresses
and replied to them upon the Clarence. Twenty
years hence we shall read: “Note from the diary
of a late Australian Governor. May, 1886: Through
the Clarence. Bored to death—addresses Told
them all fine districts: want developing. Loyalty
throne satisfactory. Want get back Sydney. Wired
back for cigars. Never come this way again.
Awful dreams, addresses, school children singing.
Wish I was dead.”
There is a bulky member of the N.S.W.
Parliament who is known to one half the commu-
nity as the possessor of somewhat saintly tenden-
What It WIH Coma To.
■ Pmuc Nor/cf;
J nereSy notify Tnytn^p^ of&z *y?
7?>e countiy. ers my e*rer«V-
er mJxeo!' tierny et c(eft
d/ency /// yr/y eeceeirntis of
Tfrousccmcte T%e tiatitince
/ %„ />nr 7%<Z
priarea- PSee* /S *>/" ,
Aurpofe of cfepap'Og e P
, &tx#es, j
<jones \
£/ rtutnn jfr, j
, /%e j
‘ wz< ;
' '•■ &<£ ; ' -j
c(oh<C\
/?7/7&e
SA ct re Ao/cte y~s
me.- ■ /fiat 7$ e. ~
mmß] atorcC a/?a<&
MM /OfO V?cC(i\
cies, and to the other half as a person who has the
impudence to stare like a wild beast at any decent
woman whom he sees walking by herself, and to
shadow little girls round dark corners. We refrain
from giving his name because we don’t like print-
ing stale news. Some day this social pestilence
will enact the part of corpse at a coroner’s inquest.
We are much afflicted to hear from a
London source that Henniker Heaton objects to
The Bulletin. He recently wrote to the Colonial
Institute expressing strong disapproval of the
paper, which he of course described as “scurrilous”
(the usual word, you know) and protested against
the presence of the file in the Institute. The
committee of course took no notice of Mr. Heaton’s
objections, but it is singular that the members
lately have failed te find the usual Bulletin in
its place.
Speaking of Sir Saul Samuel’s protest
against Henniker’s pretensions to set up as the
Grand Mogul of Australia, the Jernil’S London
correspondent says:—" Sir Baul hates Henniker in
a truly Hebraic fashion. Poor pigmy I Heaton i*
too high up the ladder to be affected by anything
he can do.” "In a truly Hebraic fashion!”
Humph! It would take a lot to make Sydney
people believe that Sir Samuel condescends to
hate Mr. Henniker Heaton on account of the lat-
ter’s Christianity.
Judge Noel, of Melbourne, the ablest
Judge who ever presided over the Victorian In-
solvency Court, is so ill that the Government have
appointed Judge Worthington to temporarily tike
his place. When Judge Noel was away on leave
of absence, two years ago, the Adonislan Judge
Quinlan was appointed to act as his locum tenens,
but owing, it is said, to the fact that many of the
decisions of that functionary were reversed on
appeal to the Supreme Ciurt, it was not thought
advisable to place bim over the Bankruptcy
Court again.
The late viear of St. Martin-in-the-Fields,
London, left £45,000, the bulk of which will go to
keep worthless relatives in a position they have
done nothing to earn. He fared well, slept well,
and possibly preached well, and sipped his crusty
port, and heard parish scandal for many a long
year, while hundreds of hungry people around
him crawled shivering through a famished and
hopeless existence. And such men as the vicar of
St. Mart-in-in-the-Fields exclaim on Sundays from
the pulpit: Dearly beloved brethren, " lay not up
for yourselves treasures on earth.” Of such is the
kingdom of ?
The death early last month of Dr. Trench,
Archbishop of Dublin, recalls a good old-crusted
well-known story “ originally ” told of the pre-
late, who was a hypochondriac, and was con-
stantly experiencing what he took to he premoni-
tions of paralysis. The last course had been
served at a grand banquet, when the Archbishop
agitatedly said to his oaughter: "I fear that I am
threatened with one of my bad attacks; I have
been pinching my knee for the last five minutes,
and I eannot feel the slightest sensation.” “ Make
your mind easy, your Grace,” rejoined a lady on
the other side of the table, “it was my knee you
have been pinching.”
The Queen—down, little fluttering heart!
—appears to have hit upon an ingenious device
for obtaining necessary rest (I) during drawing-
room receptions. A London high Tory paper says:
—" It used to be the upright position that fatigued
her so much and caused her to retire early. This
evil has now been remedied niy a means by which
her Majesty can rest during the function, and
from which she has found considerable relief.”
We would give worlds to be let into the secret
that lurks in this mysterious paragraph. Can It be
that an arm-ohatr or a sofa is concealed some-
where in the royal" improver ? ”
The Duke of Connaught, a son of Queen
Victoria, has been appointed a staff Major-General
to command a division of the Bengal army. This
promotion over the heads of older officers was
justly earned for distinguished services rendered
at the taking of Carthage, and for his valour sub-
sequently in beating back step by step the forces
of Marshal Boult in the Peninsular War. The
Duke’s exploits at the battle of the Boyne, and his
godlike valour in heading the Balaolava charge
are too recent to need comment. He is a brother
of the Duke of Edinburgh, who was once in Aus-
tralia, and under whose command Nelson won
what little distinction he ever gained.
We read in the Sydney D.T. that “ whilst
at Grafton, Lord Carington was introduced to an
old salt named Richard Paine, 8G years of age, who
fought under Nelson.” This affords yet another
convincing proof of the marvellous energy of the
British in times of war. As Mr. Dick Paine could
have barely reached his fifth year at the time
Nelson died at Trafalgar—lSO'S—it is no marvel that
England swept all before her when “ sucking ”
Admirals joined her navy at such a tender age.
Perhaps Mr. Richard will favour us with his
memoirs of the battle, and his comments thereon
The prominence given to old Dick’s statement
almost suggests the irreverent idea that editors of
daily papers need a course of elementary lessons in
history.
On the occasion of Judge Paul’s first visit
to Roma (Q) he was met and escorted into town
by a large number of the residents, some of whom,
with loyalty to long-established customs in such
cases, had pushed conviviality to the extreme
border of sobriety. One of their number cheer-
fully remarked to the judge : “I suppose we may
state that the notification of your visit was the
First Epistle of Paul to the Roma-ns?” “ Well ”
replied the Judge, “ had it come now, it would be
more properly called the First Epistle of Paul to
the Tight-UDS.” Which is one of the best speci-
mens extant of that most dismal of all
commodities, Australian forensic wit. It is 10
years since we heard a respectable joke made in
court, save by a contumacious witness; and we
don t remember ever having known a Supreme
Court nudge—barring the late Mr. Justice Fellows,
of Victoria-give expression to a notable plea-
saatrv.
Nine years ago a
fair-haired little boy
of about five summers
was brought by his father
to one of the leading
musicians in the Cabbage
Garden, and this gentle-
man was informed by the
hopeful parent that he
thought there was
something in his boy.”
Further explanations Jed
to the youngster being
treated to a trial gallop
® piano, and so well
did he shape that a public
exhibition of his remark-
able powers was arranged
Jor. At this exhibition
he played some half-
dozen pieces ; notably,
the “II Jdio Tesoro,”
from Don Giovanni, with
such exquisite taste and
marveUous correctness
that he was at once styled
the "Australian Mozart.”
Another innate ana sur-
prising faculty he dis-
played, when, standing
several yards from the
piano, and with his back
turned towards it, he cor-
rectly, and instantly
called out the names of
the notes in chords struck
by Mr. J. Summers and
Mr. JPulver. These gentle-
men tested him in every
form of progression, in-
version, &o„ and in. all
keys without finding a
single mistake in his
answers. As a finale, the
little fellow played a
lively strain of his own
composition in the key of
C ' an ,d by a progression
of flats conducted it
through a complete circle
of modulation back to
the key from which he
started. After this he
studied under the best
masters in Melbourne,
and in December last our
little wonder, Master
Ernest Hutohinson, was
sent to England at public
expense to compete for
the scholarship in the
Royal College of Music,
From a letter written by
him to Dr. Torrance we
learn that he lailed to se-
cure the first prize, but
under circumstances
which fully justified the
good opinion formed by
his friends, and which
should entitle him to at
least as hearty a welcome
on his return as we award
to a crack cricketer, or
oarsman. Three hundred
candidates competed for
the prize, and these were
reduced by examination
to six, the little Austra-
lian being one of them,
but he fell out in the
next round. Personally,
we do not hold a very
exalted opinion of these
examinations. The Duke
of Edinburgh, for ex-
ample, was passed with
ilying colours as an
R.A.M., and yet he can’t
play well enough to se-
cure an engagement in a
dog-and-monkey circus.
That all was not strictly
O.K. at the last exam,
seems possible, from the
fact that little Hutchin-
son complains that al-
though he was called
upon to play, modulate,
transpose, read at sight,
and tell by ear chords
struck, still he was nofe
asked a single question in
that most important
branch of all-harmony,
notwithstanding that
papers sent to Austra-
lia expressly said that
the work would in-
clude a harmony paper.
We sincerely trust little
Ernest will reach the top-
most rung of his profes-
sion, but at the satr e
time we are quite sure
it would b© i»r more
p rofltabie to him here to excel in the noble art of
Jowermg unfinished hencoops on the Association
Ground, or pulling a cedar plank on the Parra-
matta river.
An old and a new-world story of the ex-
periences of religious deputations. Hard Thurlow
once sa:d to a deputation of Dissenters: *• Gentle-
men, I am for the established religion, and if you
can oDly get your d— religion established, I will
support that, too.” It is related of a certain
N.S. W. knight that he had one morning in thB dim
Sometimeago received three deputations, and
thought there were no more to come, but in this
he erred, for a small, thin, meek, and exceedingly
pious little parson marched in at the head of
several more who looked like his younger breth-
ren. The statesman looked at them and greeted
them with: "And what the Sheol do you
want It was religious teaohing in State school a
that they wanted, but they scooted without
troubling to ask for it.
A London correspondent of the Sydney
Evening News writes to say that Captain Loftus,
who was gazetted Secretary to the Colonial Exhi-
bition Commission at a salary and allowances of
*BO a month, because he was the son of our late
lamented Augustus, “ cannot be found at his office
or at the Exhibition, but that his name figures
with strictest punctuality on the monthly pay-
sheet.” Which is probably a wicked libel, as the
truth is not always in the Evening News. But, even
were the allegation founded on fact, why should
these vulgah Australian fellahs enquiaw about
such twines when evewybody knows a man’s
addwesj may often be learnt at his club if they


•will only ask for it civilly and tip one of the
flunkeys ? What’s £BO a month to kick up such a
demnition bobbewy about ?
Mr. Edward Valentine Browne, who won
his action for libel against Melbourne Punch
some time ago, receiving £3OO and costs as a balm
for his wounded feelings, has just given a publica-
tion to the world which for sarcastic observations,
humour, and small capitals, takes the bronze
medal against all comers. The bulk of the brochure
is taken up with a series of very small comments,
in very large type, upon the conduct of all and
several who were in any way concerned with his
case. Mr. Carrington is quoted as saying that Mr.
Browne once “dressed as a baby at a fancy-dress
ball, and that he afterwards “had his head
shaved.’’ If E. V. B. will take our solemn advice
he will have his head shaved again, and will like-
wise put it under a pump, and also in a refrigera-
tor until his present mania for book-writing
evaporates Andthehumour ? Oh, yes, certainly;
that is contained in two words on the title-page—
“price sixpence.” The book is called "E. V.
Browne’s own Punch.” The name ruins its pros-
pects straight. Melbourne has hitherto just been
able to exist in spite of one Punch, but with two
going at once-whew I
Holy Adelaide is rich in “disclosures” just
now. Naughtiness appears to be quite epidemic
in the City of Saints. The latest debutante at the
police court is Mrs. Elizabeth Watson, who lately
played the role of Mrs. Crawford at another court,
with Mr. Kingston (ex Attorney-General) as the
local Sir Charles Dilke. In a word Mrs. Watson is
a divorced lady. But she is like the prodigal. She
wants to return home and be forgiven. It was
with this object in view that Mrs. Watson solicited
an mteiview with her husband the other day. She
pleaded—he remained obdurate. Poor Mrs. Watson
had come fully prepared for obduracy. After
putting the question “ will you take me baok—
once! twicel thrice!”—she landed hubby heavily
across the head with some stones tied up in a
handkerchief. As he still refused to take her once
again to his bosom, she broke her umbrella over
his front teeth. Hence the aggrieved lady’s
appearance in the dock. By the way, she further
threatens to shoot the unrelenting Watson with a
six-chambered revolver. Mr. Kingston gave her
the weapon, so she states, and taught her to bring
down a blow-fly at 30 paces. Revolver-nractice
must be a favourite pastime with the Kingston
family. The brother of the ex Attorney-General
once shot a cabman, just to keep his eye in.
It is not altogether an unalloyed joy to be
called Smith. Lord Carington will discover this
one of these days, or we are mistaken. At any
rajte, if be does not, it will not be the fault of a
young man of that name who galvanised Grenfell
and paralysed Young lately by announcing him-
self as his (Lord Carington’s) nephew, and giving a
champagne supper to the chief men of those loyal
townships. He was a splendid success while he
lasted. People intrigued to get him to drink with
them, and went home haloed with glory when they
had got him to accept an invitation to dinner. The
handsome daughters of the district lavished their
bewitching smiles upon him as he passed, and
their young men wished him dead every time.
Then the end came with a crash. The gay and
charming Bmith was discovered to be a very
hollow and disgusting sham after all. He had
showered a snowstorm of cheques upon the town,
all of which were found to be valueless. And the
townspeople had given him their good money for
them, not to mention that they had made asses of
themselves in other ways. Smith, of course,
vanished at the first sign of failing credit. The
looal paper facetiously observes that he went to
Sydney “probably to see his uncle.” His cheques
may now be bought by the pound at current rates
for waste paper. A large proportion of the in-
habitants of Grenfell and Young are now pro-
fessed Republicans and greet any reference to
rank with gloomy derision.
The Melbourne A»e recently published a
letter which was sent to Mr. Froude byaMr.De
Castella, a Victorian taxpayer, in re some juicy
little errors in " Ooeana.” It seems that the great
author was a guest of Mr. De Castella’s when
these colonies staggered under his weight, and
whilst the wine was in, possibly—we only say
possibly—mine host warmed to the occasion, and
electrified his guest wita interesting reminiscences
of Paris life in February, 1818. Mr. Froude snapped
up these iterrs, and when “Oceana” reached
Australia, M. De Castella was horrified to read how
his stories had been distorted; and fixed up as his
own personal experiences. Hear him wail:—“Ever
since I read your statements I have been haunted
by them. I have not been a detective-officer I I
have had nothing to do with the French police! I
did not fight in the streets in February ’4B! I did
notserve in Caussidiere s horde!” But worse, and
worse, “Oceana” thrilled the world with a state-
ment to the effect that, though, Madame Da Cas-
tella was moderately rich, she might have been just
rolling in riches had she pleased her friends by
marrying someone else, This was condemned
prevarication, and enough to make most men rip
the book beyond recognition, and prance about
knocking-out imaginary Froudes in two rounds.
M. De Castella writes for redress; probably he'd
as soon take it with a hoe-handle as not. Colonial
celebrities will henceforth bar;their doors against
old world book writers who visit them in the guise
of valetudinarians.
It is still a disputed question whether the
Marquis of Normanby intends taking one more
plunge into the sea of matrimony. If the harm
iess old gentleman has really centred his noble
a ? e n tionß u P° n a “colonial young lady” (who
shall be nameless, because we are not quite sure as
to which one it is) we shall offer no opposition to
the match. The Marquis is no longer young, cer-
tainly—but neither was Boucicault when he led
his golden-haired goddess to a Sydney altar. How-
ever, the Marquis has an advantage over Dion 8.,
inasmuch as he has buried his first wife. So, take
it altogether, we’re downright glad that the ex-
victorian Governor isn’t a Russian. Yes; that s
n° . we were wanting to arrive at. Under
tne Czar’s benevolont despotism noblemen and
gentlemen of a “certain age” are sternly pro-
hibited from tasting nuptial joys. In the opinion
tn , eir Imperial “papa” matrimony isn’t good
o. ? m ’ 1116 decree is rather rough upon such as
fn 6 ™ rtn ented by the “itohing of an old man's
love, and occasionally an aged Russian is carried
a*ay by a whirlwind of passion and persists in
getting married in spite of “ papa.” This hap-
pened the other day with an uxorious major of 80
JiJmmerj. The poor old boy was torn away from
IP® st( l3 of his bride and clapped into prison for
IPJ® e days by way of a cooler. It is whispered
{fat N ° rm anby sent the Russian Major a hearty
. condolence. The Marquis called to mind
rioticchorus in “Pinafore,” and reflected
mat He might have been a Ko-oshun.”
“What’s dripping for the maid should be
»f:E piD ‘ r /°r the mi-.sus,” is what Margaret Wilson,
in Bentley (Tas.) thought recently, and
n.v.aßed Is. and 13j. costs for entertaining that
Haml 011, action was brought by Mr. Norman
ln addition to his well-known in-
i” 1 .™ 60 the siller value of sugar appears also to
a discreet supervision over the butter
thP? y or is festive board. The evidence shows
a certain day Mawgie was tauld, ye ken,
°LI? Bc rape the butter so thin, as there were
thk"l? °°ming to be fattened up at the expense of
khoh™ oB^ dell J» k them - Coming into the
there ait the servants’ table—horror of
thnßo 1 !'^ 8 a Bm all pat of butter, with which
.IK!® hirelings were about to gorge them-
nutHr’i^eg^r<?leas of 80me chunks of highly
tinn UI i OUS .dripping more suitable to the sta-
eaiiL, 1 ? lif e to which tee Almighty had
and +i“ em * Mawgie said “go eat dreepin’ yersel,”
summons went out for insolence and
e A ce ’ Ihia lavish Tonald, we learn, is a
he’s in te Tasmanian Parliament and when
Custnw^ 0 ,? oubt * will be invaluable when the
He i a m +h dut ts < l n butter are under consideration,
Stp th® Proud offspring of Mr. D. Cameron,
the i earned immortal fame by opposing
siderw duties ? n tea and sugar, not con-
But hl g t? 6111 necessaries of life, but luxuries.
*ool uack* V w C hi te h l r ho abolition of the duty on
-to\h«*-’ *bich of course are a necessary of life
of gronn<r a « Don P!. dB ’ Ronald, senior, owns a bit
hatura? h«Tfu m^ hit ! g Jlito °°' OUU acres, and it is
ture. 81 “ e Bbou ld closely sorutinlse his expendi-
Political
Poits
Mirams of Victoria is preparing an exhaus-
tive reply to G. H. Reid’s recent freetrade
oration.
Mr. John Davies (in the N.B.W Assembly):
“the sooner we go to the country the better.”
What would we not do if Mr. John Davies would
but say “ some other country ’’—and act upon it!
In Portugal ballot-boxes for the reception
of votes are generally placed in churches between
the statues of two saints. Dan. O'Connor, although
a true son of the Church, generally looks out for
two good tough sinners to act as scrutineers.
One of the Anglican bishops in Ireland
writes:—” Home Rule would banish from Ireland
all that is good and intelligent in it”—meaning
no doubt that he and his handful of followers
would have to look out for better feeding grounds.
The Melbourne Age, which no failure in
its prophecies can daunt, asserts that “ unless the
Great Powers land an army in the Crimea as they
did in 1854, Russia, either singly or in league with
Franc , will seize the opportunity for invading
Turkish dominions once more.”
Touching the absurd N.S.W. Liquor Traffic
Commission, the only important point on which
the Government is divided now is whether it
would be better to use the members of the Com-
mission as a door-mat, or to put them on handles
and use them as offlce-mops. In either capacity
they would be of far greater use than they are at
present.
A DUDE’S DELIGHT.
HOSTESS: “I’M AFRAID YOU ARE NOT ENJOYING YOURSELF.”
MASHER: “I AM INDEED, THOUGH. MORE THAN A DOZEN GIRLS’ EYES ARE GLUED
ON ME.”
“ Mr. John Davies complains of the N.S.W.
Executive Commissioner to the Indo-Oolonial Ex-
hibition, Sir A. Stuart, and his son, receiving £3OOO
a year.” We don’t, though we don’t think poor
Sir Alick needs any pecuniary inducement to keep
him from accepting diamond rings from Spiers
and Pond, the caterers.
Henniker Heaton has a letter in the
Morning Post defending bis universal penny
postage scheme, for which 140 members of the
House of Commons voted, and to promote whioh
the wily Henniker is starting a league. “The
Posttraster-Gcneral,” remarks H.H., “calculated
the loss attendant on the carrying-out of my
Scheme at £360,000 a year. During Kowland Hill’s
agitation tne authorties calculated the loss at
£1,500,000 a year, The profit on the British Post-
Office to day is just £3.000,000 a year.”
The Westebn Grazier very sec sibly points
out that the united request of the colonies for free
admission of Australian wool to the (J. 8., will be
followed by a similar one from the mammoth
pastoralists of Bouth America. Already the gra-
ziers of the great Platte Valley are our greatest
rivals, and they have the advantage of distance to
bring their produce to the Eastern manufacturing
States. The Grazier thinks the concession asked
for by us if extended to South America will have
the effect of handicapping us more heavily than
now.
“ There is a sign of a revival of Nihilism in
Russia, and, by way of precaution, a decree has
been issued preventing the use of wreaths at
funerals It is said that these wreaths teaoh the
doctrines of the revolution.” Besides, it’s just as
well to get the nobility of Russia broken in to
being buried without wreaths. There may be a
vague profundity and general vastness about the
remains now and then that will make the decora-
ting with wreaths a bit puzzling and rather
widespread. Wreaths of smoke, though, may be
supplied at this class of funeral. These wreaths
also “ teaoh the doctrines of the revolution.”
A society of saints in Adelaide, oalled the
Vigilance Association, held a meeting lately to
consider “ how to free Parliament from scandalous
offenders against morality.” A number of clergy-
men were present, but no bank officials of pious
proclivities turned up. All were agreed that holy
men, strict pietist wa°hed-in-the-Fount gospel-
mongers, are the only fit and proper persons to
represent an enlightened community, and that the
career of each M.P. should be examined with a
microscope, the goats sorted from the sheep and
cast out; when the latter alone handle the reins of
Government, then for the millennium. The V.A.
is going to petition the Assembly to ej ret the vile
| and unregenerated, but the Assembly won’t gel
up and kick Itself out into the cold world, even
to make room for a spotless government, which
would legislate by inspiration. We advise this
useful society to turn its attention to the clergy.
Reynolds’ paper, the staunchest, and, in
tact, only radical journal in England, and which
has been one of Gladstone’s strongest backers, be-
gins to dread the absolute predominance of that
statesman, and writes vigorously against One man
Government. Re his proposal to buy out the
Irish landlords, it says:—“lf it were proposed to
present the Irish people with some millions of
pounds we could understand and sympathise with
such a proposal, but to give a single brass farthing
to the gang of robbers who have brought indelible
disgrace on the English name is beyond all human
en £urance. It is surely the robbed and not the
robber that is entitled to compensation, if com-
pensation there is to be.”
Vanity Fair’s view of the English poli-
tical situation is that “the astute Mr. Chamber-
• sees that his aged patron Gladstone is
visibly coming to an end, and who, besides, cannot
endure the airs that Mr. Morley gives himself as
a coming man, has withdrawn his protection, his
support, and himself from the Cabinet, and is now
endeavouring to make friends with the Mammon
of unrighteous Hartington, in the hope that the
Whigs may receive him into their houses. It is a
move quite worthy of Joseph, and made at an op-
portune moment; for, having got rid of Sir
Charles Dilke, Joseph, if he oan only trip up the
Grand Old Parliamentary Hand, would be, as he
imagines, in a masterly position as an ally of Lord
Hartington’s, next in dignity to that commanding
Marquis. In this position he reckons, no doubt,
that he would not have long to wait before he
succeeded to the leadership of the House of Com-
mons; for the Duke of Dovonshire being now 78
years of age, it will probably not be lorg before
Lord Hartington is himself removed to the Upper
House. That, no doubt, is the calculation.”
The following from an Amerioan corre-
spondent, appears in a London Tory paper of 3rd
April (five weeks, be it noted, before the Chicago
labour-riots reported here by cablegram the other
day):—“We are still in the throes of the big strike.
I believe that hard fighting between the labour
unions and the orderly citizens and capitalists is
merely a question of a year or two. The labour
unions threaten that, if they are locked out and
boycotted by the railway corporations and syndi-
cates, as is contemplated, they will plunder the
cities; and I see nothing whatever to prevent
them from doing so. They are far better men (so
far as fighting Igoes), and far better organised,
than the citizens and propertied classes, and these
latter have no army or volunteers and no police,
or rather the police belong: to the labour unions,
who elect them. In the meantime, everything is
rising in price, law and order are openly defied,
and the courts are simply scandalous. The next
civil war cannot be far off, and will probably end
in a strong military government.” So that is the
Tory foreeast of a struggle to the death between
Men and Money I
The N.S.W. Government want money
while the Sydney streets swarm with mangy dogs,
and while in almost every backyard in every big
town in the colony there is at least one yelping
cur which makes night hideous and tortures the
sick. The present systematically-evaded muni-
cipal half-crown registration fee is a mere farce.
Dogs, blind men’s dogs alone excepted, are of no
practical use in the centres of population; they
are distinctly “luxuries,” and people who own
them ought to be made pay for the privilege of
annoying thoir neighbours. First-class dogs kept
either for ornament or for sporting purposes,
should be subject to a tax of 20s. per annum, and
all un.ictnaed dogs should be so d by auction—
those which are umaleable should be summarily
destroyed. The police should be entrusted witn
the collection of licenses and should be given, not
merely (as at present) a capitation fee on vagrant
dogs captured and destroyed, but a larger reward
payable out of fines imposed upon the keepers of
unregistered dogs. Such a tax would yield a
revenue of many thousands a year and would
abate a growing and unendurable nuisance, the
only present remedy for which is the secret em-
ployment of strychnine. We commend the subject
to the Treasurer’s attention.
Sir G. W. DesVceux,late Governor of Fiji,
was, when he lived there, the best hated man
in those remarkable islands (which, by the way,
an old resident says, are drifting steadily down
towards Cape Horn.) A Fijian Junius wrote him
a valedictory letter, which was published in the
Fiji Times. We cull from it the following choice
flowers of diction:—
“In Demerara your name has a bitter savour. .
... on the reputation you left behind you at
St. Lucia it would not profit you to expatiate. It
is notorious that in F jlyour relations with the
community were the reverse of cordial. The
terms in which your published despatches were
couched resemble nothing so much as the vituper-
ation of a superior flshfag You have
been consistent in your disparagement of those
with whom you have been brought in contact, and
the latter have as consistently returned the com-
pliment. Have you the effrontery to assert that
it is they, not you, who aro in fault ? Go to! - you
know that you, and you only, are the culprit. I
hear you confess it as you read these lines,
ine blush of shame is mantling 1 on your velvet
y°ur hyaointhine noddle is bowed in
ft?™** 011 - be ™ r -? the truth.” Are there no
dungeons in inji no racks no thumb-
screws ? If such a production as the above
? n 5, Sydney paper the proprietors
would suddenly disappear from public view to
emerge no more till the final judgment. Fiji
must be a paradise for plain-speakiDg editors, At
the same time it may be as well to say that the
IfnffiwJrPw '^ ch rV e Quota was not published
until Sir G. W. Des Vceux had left Fiji for Europe.
On the whole, we believe if we had to choose be-
tween governing Fiji and selling peanuts in Syd-
ney we would plump for the peanuts. The
colonists of Fiji seem to be an exceedingly wry-
necked lot. They hated Sir Arthur Gordon, who
introduced a regime of justice to the native race,
detested Sir G. W. Des Vceux, who carried out
this polioy; and are disgusted with Mr. J. B.
Thurston, the present Acting-Governor, who
treads in the path of his predecessors. It was a
cruel blow to them when they were prevented
from annexing at their sweet will the lands of the
natives and making the latter work for them
®r they liked or not. We are not sorry
r jji is drifting’ down to Capo Horn. We can grow
sugar enough in Queensland to make all the rum
we require.
More glory for Henniker Heaton! He has
been interviewed by the Pall Mall Gazette
which publishes his views to the extent of a
column and a half. The first point we notioe is
that Great ’Enniker was “ much struck with the
average ability of the House of Commons.” Such
an opinion, from such an authority, must be in-
tensely gratifying to Gladstone, Chamberlain, and
Parnell, and if we could only get their opinion of
Henniker our joy would be more than complete.
But, perhaps, they have not time to notioe little
things. Henniker further told the Pall Mall
man that he‘‘felt quite at home in the House of
Commons. We have the same practice and proce-
dure in Australia. We quote May’s ‘Parliamen-
tary Practice’ just the same.” Please notice
the we. Anyone in England reading this
absurd speech would think that Henniker had
peon in the N.S.W. Assembly for years, whereas
the solemn faot is that when he did try to get a
seat for a Southern constituency, on the Radical
ticket, he was “ licked yes, licked. Then
Henniker proceeds further into the realms of
magniloquent romance in saying, “A year or two
ago I was sent to England by the people of Mauri-
tius to represent,” &o. This little island seems to
be a perfect mine of wealth for Henniker’s repu-
tation. It is quite recently that he related with
beooming embellishments his own gallant conduct
in, as he puts it, “ rescuing despatches;” now he
goes one better by relating how he was onee a sort
of plenipotentiary for the Mauritians. In another
mail or two, we expect to read an account of H.H’s.
exploits when emporer of the islands. Henniker
concludes the interview by remarking that he has
a lot of new ideas about various subjects and
place o , including Mauritius, we .'suppose, and ex-
plains that Fair Trade and the housing of the poor
were the questions which earned him his majority
of 1000 at Canterbury. Touching this latter state-
ment, W. H. 8. Aubrey, the Liberal candidate’at that
election, writes to the Pall Mall asserting that it
was the beating of the tom-tom clerical, and the
support of the liquor interest, that worked most
for the “ representative Australian.” Mr. Aubrey
says: “ The saturnalia that prevailed in the streets
from dusk on the polling-day until long after mid-
night was a disgrace to civilisation.” Which only
goes to show what ecstacy Englishmen feel at the
success of a ‘‘representative Australian.” And
the use of this title leads us to wonder whether the
theologians will not wish for another revision of
the Old Testament Scriptures so as to make it
read, ‘‘And I said in my haste that all men are-
representative Australians.”
Is Your Skin
covered with itching, scaly, pimply, and unsightly
humors, and torturing disfigurations which cover
you with shame and rob you of rest and strength ?
The Cuticura Resolvent, the new purifier, will
cleanse the system of acrid humors, cool the blood,
open the bowels, and render the perspiration pure
and un irritating, while the Cuticura and Cuticura
Soap, the great skin cures and beautiflers instantly
allay, itching, subdue inflammation, and clear the
skin and scalp of every evidence of disease.
The Divorce Extension Bill oooupies much
attention just now, and many are the disoussions
that arise thereon on all sid9s and in all classes,
i he engaged, the bride, the matron, the widew,
the bachelor, the rake, and, well— 4:' Why further
proceed. All are agreed that marriage is not com-
plete unless the home is furnished with sets for
breakfast, dinner, tea, and bedrooms, such as Bray
Bros., of 402 Qeorge-street, are noted for. Our
esteemed Lieutenant-Governor may possibly in-
troduce a clause to that effect.*
BEALE & COMPANY
City Show Booms,
386 and 613 GEORGE STREET,
13 CENTRAL MARKETS,
161 OXFORD STREET
AGENTS and TRAVELLERS In EVERY
COUNTRY TOWN.
Address Letters of Inquiry—
-371a Pltft-streef, Sydney.
THE LATEST TRIUMPH of SEWING MACHINE
MECHANICS,
The “BEALE'’
HIGH-ARM
PATENT BEWING MACHINES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
KfcrtEisSm Sewing Machine,
EEALE.
The “ Hapsburg” Planes.
SOLE IMPORTERS,
BEALE AND COMPANY.
THE “HAYDN” ORGANS
AND
HARMONIUMS.
Solo Importer,
BEALE AND COMPANY.
FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
and
FULL INFORMATION,
Address
ANY LOCAL AGENT OR TRAVELLER;
or,
BEALE & COMPANY
Sydney.


niHMATRE R OYAL.
Under the direction of „
'Messrs. Williamson, Gabnhb and Mubgrovb.
Lessee. Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L- Goodman.
Stage Manager Mr. H. H. Vincent.
ELEVENTH WEEK and Continued Success of
WILLIAMSON, GARNER, and MUSGROVE’S
ROYAL DRAMATIfc COMPANY.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, MAY 20,
and every evening until further notice,
at 8 o’clock precisely,
terminating at 10.40, will be acted, A. W. 1 inero s
famous farcial comedy,
THE MAGISTRATE
THE MAGISTRATE
THE MAGISTRATE.
Admission: Dress Circle. 55.; Stalls, 35.; and dur-
ing the dramatic season, Upper Circle, Is.
Tickets for all parts of the house at East way’s
Hotel. Box plan open at the Theatre dally from
10 till 5. No Free List.
T HB
ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
George-street, Haymarket.
Lessee and Director Mr. Frank Smith.
The Home of Minstrelsy and Mirth.
The Popular and Fashionable Resort.
TO-NIGHT, and every evening during the week,
THE ALHAMBRA VARIETY and SPECIALTY
UNION in their refined entertainment.
MINSTELSY, OLIO, and FARCE.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 3s; stalls, Is;
balcony, is.
Every Sunday Night. Grand Concert Spiritual,
at 7.30 o’clock.
A
OADHMY Of MUBIC.
Lessee F. E. Hiscocks.
Under the Management or
POLLOCK and CUN ARD
EVERVf EVENING, at 8 o’clock.
THE CRIMSON CIRCLE.
Our New Programme. A Legitimate Success.
OUR OLIO, comprising novelty, sensation, musical
sketches, and laughable farces, the whole
forming a most amusing and pleasant
evening’s entertainment.
f EXHIBITION BUILDING
ll THE JAPANESE VILLAGE.
FEIDAT. May 31st, GHAND PASH [ON ABLE
DAY, under the immediate patronage or
H. E. LORD CARRINGTON.
The only fashoinable Resort in Sydney.
JAPANESE AERIAL FLIGHT,
The Greatest Per formance Ever Witnessed.
JAPANESE ARTISANS
JAPANESE PERFORMERS
Japanese tea-house
JAPANESE TEMPLE LANTERNS &C.,
PATBK’S BAND.
The Most Complete and Novel Exhibition
ever brought to Australia,
Admission. Two Shillings : Children, half-price.
This admits to everything in the Village—no
second charge.
Sole Director, PEMBERTON W. WILLARD.
Business Manager, H. P. LYONS.
Tickets are for sale at. W. H. Paling s and Nichol-
son and Co.’s Music Warehouses, George-street.
IMPORTANT.—On Queen’s Birthday, May 34,
the Village will be open at 10 a m., 3 p.m., and 7 p.m.
inch FAMILY BELLRINGERS
(Organised 1867).
Manager Harry Lynch.
' SOUTHERN TOUR.
Burrowa—Friday and Saturday, May 31. 33
Crookwell— Monday and Tuesday, May 34, 3a
Marulan, Moss Vale. Bowral, Picton, Camden,
CaniDbelltown, Mittagong, Liverpool,
to follow.
Admission—4s. and 3i. Doors open 7 30, over-
ture at 8. JAMES BMITH,) Advance
H. E. BARNES, j Agents.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 & 24 CLARENCE STREET, BYDNEY*
FLEMINGS
RELIABLE
HBRISS.
FIRST GRADE,
STYLE,
QUALITY,
and
7INIIH,
USED by ALL the
Leading Citizens.
NOT HOW CHEAP,
BUT HOW GOOD I
fg
FLEMING’S
WAGGONS
and
Harness,
L Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
$ for all purposes.
Call andlnspeet.
D
O B
B Y N S’ H
Junee Junction.
A L L,
Built of Brick, Large and Commodious well
L'ghted, Complete Scenery, Centre of Town.
Write for particulars.
G. BOBBINS,
Proprietor.
FOLEY’S SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &o. For
terms, &e., spply to
H. M. CANSDELL,
Manager and Instructor.
r
V2L JJi
t
FLtMtNCS FOR KE
' > I W ho\S?4f\ £/*
r&f?CplS\
-- .. -.
I
k---T.jp cf-- v=*^ v
r —-«~
\
S'
v
«fc
T>V
I
*S
> A
T-'-
jT-
IJK
Boyal standard theatre,
|CABTLEREA6H-STREET,
Between Liverpool and Bathurst streels.
Lessee Mr. Frank Smith.
Under the Management of Mr. Dumpier.
Business Manager Mr. Fred. Gunther.
THIS THURSDAY EVENING. MAY 20,
THE PHANTOM SHIP.
FRIDAY, May 21,
OTHBLLO.
I AGO Mr. DAM PIER.
SATURDAY, May 22,
will he produced, with new scjnery and effects,
the dramatic version of the late Charles Dickens’
‘‘David Copperfleld,” entitled OUR EM’LY.
In preparation. “HIS NATURAL LIFE.”
Popular Prices—Dress Circ’.e, 35,, Stalls, 2s , Pit Is
Box Plan open at Nicholson’s Music Warehouse.
GA IBT hY THEATRE.
Leasee Mr. John Solomon
Business Manager. .. Mr. B. N. Jones.
FUN FUN
FUN on the BRISTOL,
Universal Verdiot—BETTEß THAN EVER.
Something to drive away dull care, and make you
happy.
Have you seen the WIDO vV’S IRIBH REEL ?
No 1 THEN DON'T MISS IT.
Manager for Mr. Sheridan Mr. W. Hughes.
Agent .. ••• ••• H. J. Samuel.
THE KEY. G. F. MACARTHUR.
A MEETING of the old Macquarie Fields and
the King School Bojs, past and present, will
be held at the Chamber of Commerce, Exchange,
Sydney, ON WEDNESDAY, the33rd JUNE NEX l',
at 3.30 o'clock, to arrange a demonstration to their
late Receptor, who, in that month, retires into
private life.
Contributions and expressions of opinion as to
the form the movement should take will be re-
ceived by any of the undersigned who rely on a
ready response to this notice.
E. P. RAMSAY. Museum, Sydney 1
J. ARTHUR DOWLING, Hunter- I
street. Sydney
RICHARD E. KEMP, M.A., Bt. I
Peters. Richmond 1-
E J. JENKINS, Medical Sunerin- |
tendent Prince Alfred Hospi- !
tal, Bydnev
JAS. A. BRODIE, Colonial Secre- I
tary’s Office, Bydney. J
Joint
Hon.
Secretaries
and
Treasurers.
mo co i
JL and
literary i
terms. “
mtry Journalists.—Leaders, Telegrams,
Bydney Letters, supplied by competent
nan of long experience, on moderate
Beta.” Bulletin Office.
McLEAN BROS. R/GG & CO.,
IROHMONBERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
J
o
Co
o
Sir
<&
ironmongers
12
5
X
o
V
o
3
REG?
*
S>
SPECIALITIES:
Davis’ Sewmg Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint,
Alba Carbon Light.
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
Gas Cooking StovesLeonis Fletcher’s, Jeans and Walker’s.
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &c., &C.
I]TSRIQI\ .
h Dcco^rioM
* Or 5
fryfisTif. ~ytmK)SK*N<S
SCW 5 CW
P
WM).
V/A //
■
H-
la-cJ
t vJ5
2S<
.. J 11
j%^rx A)ir a
LWB
CAM'PBELIi BROTHERS,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 GEORGE STREET (next to the Royal Hotel.)


SUNDRY SHOWS.
T JMA.TFI* ROYAL—" The Magistrate p. 8
Gaiety Theatre—" Pun on the Bristol ...
Alhambra—Minstrelsy, Olio, and Farce. ... „
Academy of Music.— The Crimson Circle
Royal Standard Theatre— “ The Phantom
Ship”
Exhibition Building -Japanese Village ..
“ Ten Nights in a Bar-room ” comprises
the joy now meted out to the frequenters of the
Sydney Olympic. The piece is patronised, as we
read in L’Entr’ Acte “by all the Temperance
societies in Sydney,” which makes us inclined to
believe .that temperance is not good biz. in this
sinful metropolis, for when we rolled up to see
the “ great moral drama,” there were about as
many people in the theatre as may be found in the
House when Dan O’Connor isorating; but there
were certainly more than would remain in a
Methodist church in the suburbs while a good
healthy dog-light was procseding in the next lot,
• • •
It may be a humiliating confession of our
wickedness, but we are pained to say after witness-
ing this great moral drama that we shall prefer in
future to confine our attention strictly to such as
are not moral. This, in spite of the fact that this
colossal temperanoe lesson requires a striking
mixture of characters widely separated as the
poles for its representation. There is, first of all,
the good-hearted but depraved Yank, Sampson
Twitcher, who never feels better than when he
has three inches of corn whisky in the vicinity of
his diaphragm; then there is Simon Slade, the
stony-hearted landlord, also depraved, who, in
spits of the hardness, seems to have a fancy for
filling his bar-room with free drinks. The bulk of
the customers are likewise depraved to an alarm-
ing extent, the one oasis of virtue in the wilder-
ness of depravity being Mr. Romaine, the philan-
thropist. He is no slouch at temperance reform.
He just cruises into the bar, loaded cram-full of
lofty platitudes and fierce denunciations which he
fires into the depraved ones. Of course thess
volleys have tho customary effect —they increase
the revenue of the nearest pub. And they have a
like effect upon the audience. As soon as the cur-
tain falls upon Mr. Romaine, the men in the house
desperately grab their hate, and depart with deliri-
ous haste, to toss sixpences into the till of some
adjacent bar. Stay, this fact may be of political
importance. Let the Government compel the pro-
duction of great temperance dramas at every
theatre in the city, and the consequent consump-
tion of liquor will wipe out the deficit in a week,
—a new way of liquidating the public debt. Why,
oh, why are we not the Premier?
* * *
It is only just to the interpreters of this
magnificent moral lesson to admit that th<?y strug-
gle under the burden of their business with a de-
termination that verges on the heroic. But their
reward is not and cannot be anything like com-
mensurate with their gigantic effort.
** * *
“The Phantom Bhip” still travels under
the Bydney Royal Standard but gives place on
Friday night to “ Othello,” to be followed on
Saturday by “ Our Emily,” a drama founded upon
Dickens’ “Divid Copparfield.” The patrons of
this theatre have enjoyed every comfort latterly—
they have never, (a tear here blots the slip,) been
crowded. The piece was deserving of better
houses than those which greeted it.
“The Widow O’Brien” has played to a
crowded circle, a sudorific gallery, and a plethoric
pit, during the week, and seems good for a pro-
tracted trip. Martyn Hagan is improving almost
considerably. It is hard work for an actor so
young as Martyn to represent a character so old
as Captain Cranbury, but he is gradually becom-
ing more able to bear bis weight of years. Sophie
Harris lands effusive applause in her whaok of
“Trovatore;” when she goes for a top note and
knooks it out triumphantly you see the deep ex-
pectancy of the gallery god?, and once we heard
the muttered tribute of admiration " Thunder
wouldn’t she be a rum ’unj to hawk bananas!”
Taken all through, the piece goes as merriiy as a
fat man falling down stairs, and the audiences are
as happy as they ever should be in the Gaiety.
#* * *
We do not forget Miss Emma Chambers.
Knowing “The Magistrate” would keep up a long
time at the Royal, we held over Miss Chambers as
an interesting item with which to wind up our
notice of the show. She plays the part of Pop-
ham, a housemaidish young person, and is assured,
on the strength of a story in Bow Bells, that the
love of Cis Farriogdon for her wilt never wane.
She makes a few snaps at a rival, Miss Marie
Brooke, who, in the character of a young lady
“ reduced to teaching music,” is also convinced of
the fixed nature of the young rake s affections.
Miss Chambers “snaps” in very harsh tones. A
pretty face and a harsh voice never go well toge-
ther. If the guttural emphasis must be there as
it is, a wrinkle or two about the mouth, a cast in
the ej e, and a piece broken off the end of the nose
would make the character a congruous entity.
• * *
Miss Watt-Tanner takes a benenflt to-
morrow (Friday) night. A new pieoe of light tex-
ture and brief dimensions will reveal her in her
most smiling manner. The piece is called
“ Withered Leaves.”
m <* * *
“La Fille de Madame Angot ” started her
career at the Sydney Opera House on Saturday
night, when the audience was such as managers
pray for-or, at least, would, if they ever prayed
for anything. And the audience throughout was
joyous to the very extremest verge of hilarity
Miss Grade Plaisted was of course la fille char
manic. Especially the charmante, for whether as
the ingenuous and naive little bride, the guest o:'
the intriguing Lange, or her furiouily jealous
rival, she managed to get right home on the
affections of the house, from the gildec
cire’e to the palpitating pit, every time
And Miss Lambert finds in her role quite sufficient
to make things hum all round when her business
i 3 undergoing performance, for the character of
Lange gives a lot of ohances in music and action
for the display of Lambertian ability. Miss Ella
Fenton is marvellously economical with her voloe,
for though there is very little of it she makes it go a
very long way, and her song descriptive of the
character of the late Mrs. Aogot is a deoided
bjom. The popularity of the chorus, too, helps to
make things pleasant, for the boys in the pit join
in, and this gives a sociable tone to the whole
affair.
* * *
Charles HardiDg is a vigorous Ange Pitou,
ejpeeialiy vigorous when he throws a boot (without
taking it off his foot too) after Pomponnet just as
the latter is preparing for his wedding. The
interpolated song by Delaney and Hinchy in the
third act is not likely to become very extensively
hackneyed, for it is not particularly brilliant
either as to words or music: that it reoeived an
effective enoore is due to the singer and not the
8 j j?* Pomponnet was atorned with considerable
additions by J. H. Souih, and Edwin Lester danced
gaily through his b: lness. Larivnudiere was ai
slow as a funeral-procession and just about half
as interesting. Monotony„was the conspicuous
feature of his performaooe, and gloom as
heavy as the Brisbane retainer of a N.3.W. Q.C.,
the immediate and natural result. Taken right
through Larivaudiere’s personation was one pro-
longed supplication of cabbage-stalks. Nor was
Louohard very muoh better. His humour consists
in the application of an admonitory forefinger to
a pensive nose, and the utterance of the eloquent
monosyllable “Hist!” This, we suppose, is about
asiunuyas be can be on his present screw. If
tnoy were to double his pay, he might probably
D»oorae funny enough, to merit an acknowledg-
ment,—in the form of well-matured eggs, and
Haymarket turnips,
« * *
Despite discouraging ciroumstanoes the
wcieutSydrey Aoaoemy is as Crimson as at the
urar,. Lem 'Merrick is a new arrival to the crimson
crowd. Her particular skill consists in keeping
herself inside a skipping rope. If Bhe only showed
half as much skill in keeping inside her clothes,
the attractiveness of her exhibition would becon-
flderably diminished. What we mean by this is
that it is impossible for a girl with a train to do
much dancing, and that if Lena wore long dresses
she would be less capable of showing her agility
to an ecstatic audience. Another new end moder-
ately startliag performance is that of Madlle.
Airic, who does some trapeze-balancing, which has
become as we are credibly informed by L’Entr
Acte the sensation of the day.” It is worth see-
ing, anyhow. We notice that Edith Wilson’s name
does not appear on the programme. Last time we
saw her among the Circle we were positively cer-
tain that she would catch her “ death of cold.”
We hope she hasn’t though. It is much too soon
for her. to put a clothes— we mean dose, to her
career.
*# # »
The fame of the Sydney Alhambra has
penetrated far into the back country, and bush-
men (who, from their appearance, one would
judge to be totally ignorant of the existence of
such an instrument as a razor) now come tearing
on horseback over the spinifex plains and dreary
wastes, and through the box forest and cotton-
bush country, lying between here and Sturt’s
Desert and the Paroo, with one object in view—to
witness “ the entire change of programme,” which
takes dace every Monday evening at “the home
of minstrelsy and mirth,” as the management
modestly call it. Wa don’t mean to say that bush-
men are the only patrons of the Alhambra, for all
classes, from the bon ton of Potts Point to the
person who earns a precarious livelihood by dead-
horse and cattle removing, trundle round there
and enjoy themselves. The most popular item of
the programme seems to be Matlock’s singing.
When he begins in his modulated tenor to query
ohallthey meet again? ’ the house becomes as
still as a churchyard at midnight, and the audience
gaze with awe-stricken faces at his chiselled brow,
and when he finishes the high-toned portion of the
audience batter the floor with their sticks and
umbrellas until the rails dance out, old men forget
themselves, young girls weep, and the gods shriek
and yell “ankore” until he gives a repetition.
Minnie Hope and Nina Tulloch appear in a Dutch
sketch; Lucy Frazer, Amy Rowe, and Ida Francis
each sing ballads, and look lovely, the last men-
young lady, particularly, having very little
difficulty with the second item, although she
doesn t exactly rival Patti in the first. Mr. Arthur
Reed is a very much deluded young man. He
fancies he can sing comic songs, but he can’t, for
the simple reason that the songs he chooses to
sing have nothing comic about th?m. Mr. Reed is
a disciple of the J. C. Neild school of humour.
Our readers can readily imagine how dreary he is.
Mr. Glendall does a skipping-rope dance, for
which he deservedly get 3 much applause. Miss
Arnetta Scasi, from the principal Continental
theatres, and Drury Lane, Dubbo, and Mr. Har-
rington, serio comic vocalist, make their appear-
anoe this week, for the first time at “ the home.”
** * *
Who shall decide when doctors disagree ?
This is what the three critics of three Sydney
dallies say regarding that unfortunate “Moon-
Ught sonata at Kowalski’s last concert. The
Herald:—“lt wss not in accordance with the
standard of the best interpreters of the great
master.” The Telegraph “ His interpretation
was a great achievement, and would alone be
sufficient to piece the artist in the ranks of the
foremost pianists o f the day.” And, last, but not
least, the Evening News (!)—“The sonata in C
sharp minor was not so good: but this may have
been owing to the heavy character of the music.
We are unable to regard the Moonlight sonata as
anything better than a school-exercise.” 111
•* * «
Mr. Dampier has been shocked, so we have
been informed. It appears that a young and am-
bitious actor ventured to give that gentleman
some new readings of “ Hamlet,” and suggested
new “ business.” “ For instance,” said the young
man, “ in the speech ‘ As by lot, God wot,’ Hamlet
should speak the words ‘As by lot,’ and then
stamp upon Gutldenstern’s toe, who jumps around
in pain, and ejsculates ‘Godl’ to which Hamlet
reprovingly asks ‘ Wot ?’ ” Mr. Dampier replied
that he would write to Henry Irving and ask his
opinion upon the point.
** * *
Mrs. Isaac Selby, better known as Miss
Tessie Chapman, has lectured at the Sydney
Theatre Royal. Mrs. Selby has not been a nun.
She has “escaped from the quagmire of Roman
Catholicism, but has net plunged into the morass
of any other ‘ ism,’ and is content to walk on the
firm ground pointed out by the finger post of rea-
son.” Theleoturesa was introduced to tne audience
by her husband. We don’t know what ‘ ism ’he
has escaped from—we imagine Methodism, from
the twang he has retained. We are convinced he
acts wisely in taking a back seat while the
“ missus ” takes the flute- Mrs. Selby is a young
Irish girl, with a pretty Irish face, a fair turn of
Irish wit, and a gorgeous Irish accent. Her sub-
ject was: “Why I left the Roman Catholic
Church.” The lady has In her favour not only
good looks but also a good address and a clear,
sweet voice. On the other hand, her lecture was
delivered somewhat after the manner of a lesson
got by heart, in which the loss of one word is suf-
ficient to snap the chain of memory. Her lecture
is chiefly made up of anecdotes strung together
by pertinent remarkp, most of which met the
approval of her huge audience. Some of her
stories are worthy or repetition. Twelve years
after the death of her mother she was taken to
task by a priest for permitting the good mother to
swelter in purgatory, He then demanded a good
round sum to be expended ia masses for her re-
lease. Not at all taken aback she coolly told him
that, as he had allowed her mother to remain there
I.’ years, she was now thoroughly acclimatised and
therefore unfitted to reside in a milder climate.
** * •
“lolanthe” has bad a three weeks’ re-
vival at Melbourne Royal. The cast was con-
siderably different from the original, and the
performances were rather different, too. Mr.
Thornton, as the new Lord Chancellor, struggled
hard to make us forget that Mr. Brough was
specially designed by Providence to play that
particular part. But we didn't forget. Miss Alice
Barnett, per contra, is the only Fairy Queen we
shall ever love. The character was made for her.
The Queen’s remark that she “ sees no objection
to stoutness—in moderation,” now possesses the
piquant flavour it lacked when Miss Trevelyan
reigned in Fairyland. That lady laboured under
the artistic disadvantage of not being stout. But,
with all, “lolanthe” has hardly been going with
the same go as of yore, and, on the22nd, “The
Sorcerer ” and “ Trial by Jury ” are to be put up.
They ought to go. “ The Sorcerer,” first produced
eight or nine years ago at the Opera Comique, gave
Gilbert and Bullivan the unique reputation which
has stuok to them ever since. It is a rather short,
but really funny, opera. Alas I for our departed
youth—how well we remember the first perform-
ance! The bishop who entertains a tender regard
for the pew-opener as “ a very plump and pleasing
person.” And the matter-of-fact Sorcerer, who
sells penny ourses done up in packets of a dozen
each, and recommends his clients to lay down their
love philtre “ia the wood.” Ah I - but, no matter.
Ou the 22nd we shall meet again these friends of
happier days.
** * «
Brian Darley, the good-looking Gilbert
Vaughan of “Called Back,” would appear to have
finally severed his connection with George Rig-
nold. Although handicapped by a chronic huski-
ness, Mr. Darley takes a lot of beating as the
genteel villain of melodrama. That was his usual
line while with Mr. R. He formed the dark back-
ground of wickednoss which threw Handsome
George's virtue into bold relief—and limelight.
Talking of separations, Mr. Henry Harwood flgnts
no longer under the banner of the Triumvirate.
He will appear in the Majeronis’ new comedy at
the Melbourne Bijou.
•* * *
The Celestials of Melbourne gave some
theatrical performances at the Exhibition last
week in aid of a hospital fund. The show was a huge
success. The public were kept in a pleasant state
ty as to who was acting and who wasn’t.
The Chinese tragedian excels in the difficult art r f
(assembling. His faoial expression gives no clue
to the workings of his mind. Henoe it was that
every man among the audience brought away his
own version of the plot. When we looked in they
appeared to be playing a compound of the
Magistrate and the “Merchant of Venice.”
ihere was no mistake about the properties, how-
We saw a banner, the pawning price of
which would keep us in affluence for the rest of
our dajs,
** * *
Pinero has turned out another comedy for
n'm t l doi ir Co ! u J ! * '-Theatre, which promises to rival
The Magistrate.” The new attraction is “The
schoolmistress,” and it contains a capital part for
John Clayton, the original Colonel Lukyn, and co-
lessee with Arthur Cecil of the theatre. Clayton,
by the way, married the eldest daughter of our
late youthful visitor, Dion Boucicault.
** * «
Peter Campbell, who now wolfs hash at
Parer Bros.’ Hotel, in Melbourne, is advertising a
lecture under the title of “Revelations, Exposures,
and Disclosures of the Mysteries and Miseries of
Melbourne Caol.” it would be an additional draw
if Mrs. P. C. were to take the chair.
#m * m
The chain-gang which perambulated
Brisbane in the interests of the drama of “JHis
Natural Life ’ was about the best ad. ever struck,
lhe prisoners and warder were admirably fixed
up, so much so that once while waiting on the
pathway a generous bushie went up to the warder,
, lookin £ Pityingly on the convicts, said:
Mister, would you mind letting these Door devils
have a drop of beer if I bring it ? ’ The warder
generously acceded to the request. He allowed
them to have a drink, and condescended to take a
pint himself. Leitch and Co. have proceeiedto
produce the drama at Adelaide under the regis of
•i i i amson and Co., who, if sufficiently impressed,
will lose no time in staging it in Sydney and Mel-
”9^eor£e Darrell, why did you never think
Natural Life ? ” We learn that 14 frenzied
a , re now at work with the idea of taking
the wind out of M’Mahon and Leitch’a sails.
** * *
A Queensland correspondent tells us that
at a certain theatre in his country, in the spinning-
wheel scene of “Faust” the ill-fated heroine is
discovered working a sewing machine It is
rumoured in Wellington (N.Z ) that W. G. and M.
have the lease of the new theatre in course
of erection there News to hand concern-
ing an infant prodigy, only 18 months old.
who is now appearing upon the London stage and
sings a song. This child it appears is the 14th off-
spring of a gunmaker, who seems to have been as
prolific as a Gatling itself From a N.Z. corre-
spondent we learn that the Riggs and M’Mahon
Dramatic Co. opened to a £203 noose at Abbott's
Theatre, Auckland; such being the largest re-
ceipts ever known there. A succession of crowded
audiences had obtained up to time of writing
Federal Minstrels a big boom ia Brisbane and
’lscocksis appy —Dramatised versions of the late
Marcus C.arke’s novel “ His Natural Life ” are
becoming plentiful. Does his widow obtain any
royalty upon these stage adaptations ? We hear
that Mr. Dampi9r i itends to behave honourably
and pay a royalty for his production, and we
trust others will follow suit and do the same
fquare thing by the widow and orphans of him
wno was faci’e princeps among Australian men of
letters—“ Hazel Kirke” is in rehearsal, and fol-
lows The Magistrate ”at the Sydney Royal
The Majeroni Co. will produce a new farcical
comedy at Melbourne Bijou Theatre, with
Harwood and Greville in the cast.’
The Lynch Family are still on the cam-
panoleglcal war-path, assaulting on their way
every township that looks fit to raise a £5O-note.
Had we not been born j :urnalists, we should like
to have been a Lynch Family. Burro wa sees them
at the end of the week, and Crook well awaits them
on the 24th—The Faust Family have been show-
ing to crowded houses at Charters Towers (Q)
They return to Rockhampton for the 24th....
Fryer s show is also doing North Queensland, and
is to open at Townsville on the 20th, leaving for
Batavia on the 23nd. Only a few members of the
company go East, all the others, including Boss
Fryer, returning to Sydney Kyrle Bellew has
written a play, “ Ever and Aye,” which will shortly
be given in London....lt is said that Lydia Thomp-
son’s lately deceased husband, who had been
separated from her for some years, has left her a
fortune of £2O 000... If report speaks truly then
there has been war in the operatic camp in Mel-
bourne. The new conductor has told some of the
vocalists that they cannot sing, and the new stage-
manager, following the Jead, has informed them
that they cannot act either. Such statements have
not been graciously accepted by the impugned
people, and ructions have reigned Pinero’s new
comedy, “The Schoolmistress,” now playing at the
Court Theatre, London, has scored a hit. It is re-
ported to be full of quaint creations, although
some critics allege that the fun fails after the 2nd
Act.
CORRESPONDENCE
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
vlume cannot expect to hone their com-
munication! noticed.]
“R.W. A.” : Tke W.A. Government geolo-
gist says that neither he nor any of his party had
ever seen a goldfield until they struck East Kim-
berley — “J. Samwell”: You needn’t use the
phrase “milk and water” as denoting weakTesp.
Nothing except oroton oil or prussio aoid is much
stronger than Sydney milk and water—“ R.J.R.”:
The writer signs himself “ 5.0. U.,” which ia pro-
bably a misprint for S.O.W—“J.LB.”: We had
never previously heard that aDy commission,
either in the form of money or of objects of art,
had been accepted, openly or secretly, by aDy
picture-gallery official. You had better write....
“Vulcan”: If you are a sound, smart, wtll-set-
up young man, not much over 10st., and can ride
well, you should apply to the Inspector-General
of Police. .."One who likes Justioe,” &o.: Your
hint came too late. Can you send us any news-
paper report of the proceedings? —" Cawlus ”
(Bungendore): Many thanks...." J.J.8.”: He is
probably suffering from what in Sydney is known
as the; 11 Co-operative” disease—a complaint which
necessitates the environment of seven whiskies
before breakfast “Oyster Johnnie’’....The
dominie must be a lovely hypochondriac; but the
story is too broad Henniker, like a
lot of other big men with little souls, wants to
join “that ghastiy procession who hope to
hobble down to posterity leaning on two
or three letters of the alphabet.”—“C.W.”:
(Cowra): Thanks. Tennyson, the poet, died
years ago : Baron Tennyson, however, con-
tinues to trade upon the fame of the departed
erenius. “Britons hold your own!” is just about
fit to rank with the Sladeneequestuff which hailed
the marriage of Beatie and Batt; or with that
bathetic anthem “ Hands all Round,” which, writ-
ten in 1853, was resurrected from the dustbin in
’Bl, after the poet had sung his last song. The
Tennyson who wrote for the people was a poet
and a genius; the Tennyson who writes for lords
i 3 only a crawling humbug “Calamus”: Send
the rest of your poems along. We have any quan-
tity of matches—“R.C.” (Kangaloon): Your
little ballad is a gratifying contribution to the
lyrics of our native land, Australia. The pulse of
a nation is felt in its songs: if these be pure and
bright the people themselves cannot be aught else
than heroically moral. But there is more than
purity in your ballad: there is pathos of a sublime
order, which does much to illumine the great
moral lesson it contains. We are much gratified
that you have chosen The Bulletin as your
Jacob’s-ladder to Fame. Publish it? Of course
we will, although you have failed to send on the
choru3. Here it is:—
That is all. Tell us, did you write this all yourself
or did Frauncis Habigle help you ?...." W.H.E.”
Too late for this issue. .."C.8.”: Thanhs. May use
as a sketch... “J, Watkins”: Please call on editor..
“ Squarer Will enquire into your trouble. The
difficulty is that the tax of timber licenses is a jus
oharge against those who use the timber; the mis
take is that not they but their workmen have to
pay it....“ R. 0. Lusoombe Do not see that pub
lioation would serve any useful purpose....“ r.b.”
No, we don’t give any information about Sanscrit
It is not that we don’t know, but if we began in
terpreting Sanscrit or Kalmuck people would be
always worrying us to do it....“A Mother”: You
are riled because the first prize at the baby-show
was never presented, although the judges decided
which was entitled to it. That's nothing. Down
in Sydney about 50 clubs played about 300 matche
for a trophy, and then found that the trophy was
not in existence, and never likely to be “Walter
S. Miller”: We, on the other hand, choose to be-
lieve, with John Boyle O'Reilly, that “formerly
men were afraid of the devil and the law; nov
they shun public opinion and temper their actions
because of that irresponsible cues who goes abou
with note-book in hand photographing the work
as it runs. No; newspaper gossip, while it may be
overdone, is the safety of our homes and institu-
tions, and in time what evil there is will cure itself.’
“N.P.W.”: Thanks; will probably publish....
“ G.H.R ” (Marrickville): Will endeavour to verify
the statements ...“Phoenix If we had docu-
mentary proof, such, for instance, as a copy of the
will, we might devote columns to denunciation of
the partite, but we cannot find the will, and really
have nothing to go upon. Can you supply us ? We
would vt ry much like to go into the matter if we
had any data to work upon. Write again ...
“8.A.5.”: We can’t tell you. So comfortably,
however, did Prince Albert feather his nest that
at his death, the royal family obtained a decree
from Parliament (Mr. Gladstone being a party to
it) forbidding the publication of his will; for
they feared that if the amount he had amasßed
became known, ugly questions would be asked as
to how he got it. It is believed that the Prince
Consort died worth £650.000....“ Y.Y.”: You are
thinking of Captain Semmes, of the Alabama. It
was Captain Waddell (afterwards master of a
steamer trading between ’Frisco and Sydney) who
commanded the Shenandoah, to the offloers of
which a ball was given at Melbourne. Waddell
sailed into the North Pacific, entered the Arctic
seas, and destroyed no end of commerce. The war
had been over nine months when he heard, from
an English vessel, that peace had been concluded
Most of his people begged of him to run the Shen-
andoah ashore, and let eaoh man look out for him-
self. This Captain Waddell refused to do, but set
sail for Liverpool, where he arrived in due time,
running the gauntlet of the U.S. navy for 30,000
miles. He surrendered to the Queen ©f England....
“Lying-in Hospital”: Too "tropical.” “C.R.”:
We don’t know the Rev. RobjohD, but from the
gentleman’s name we presume he is a missionary
to the Chinese... "Camera”: Don’t spoil good
paper by writing bosh which we have no time to
read. Dustbin...."Allora”: Glad to hear the
paper isn’t dead. Last issue looks as if it had been
hurried up whilst half awake by a dream that a
goat had got at the paste-bucket...." Working
Miner” (Rockhampton): Next week " C.B W.”:
An excellent item ....“W.M.” (Redfern) : Held"
over....“W. E. Jamison”: Lord Caringtontellsua
he would rather load one ton of coal with his own
hands and baok than listen to one address...." E.
C. Davis”: It is just as it iJ in Cooktown, where
the fan-tan and lottery men have been left undis-
turbed for years, because they pay £lO a year to
the hospital....“ M.G.”: Thanks. You will see we
have used your idea.... "Lyric” "How he Died,’’
as well as tne chief est and best of Mr. John Farrell’s
poems, will shortly be published, the process of
selection of the fittest being now nearly com-
pleted. We cannot send you a copy containing
poem named. You had better wait forthe book.
When A. G. Taylor arrived in Sydney he
immediately got something to eat and when
informed by a reporter of one of the dailies of the
profound interest taken in the Irish question he
said “never mind. Is the Mudgee Independent
enlarged?” On being informed that it was, he
sent back word to tbe, Orient to land his port-
manteau and slippers as he intended to remain in
Australia,
*' I ham a young yearo Bold
lor love I have Been in Snare
dost to the town of Beelmore
theaire lives a maden fare
She Was farer than diehanner Bride
and fre from irthly Pride
She was a lovely dam sell
lives By the tan yard Side.
I Stood in Mado tashon
and I ide her orl oer
I thowte She Was Som gloures
Bride desanden down b lo
o no I ain Bir I ham a country gurl
She made Beplide and daly
labers (or is it ‘ g:abera ’?) for my Brad down By
the tan yaurd Side.
her to Black Sparklin oyes
of Jet and her teth were ovlrc (ivory?)
While her are in golden
Rinlets fal ore her
Snoye Nek and the galent
glantes of her oyes Wold Save
a Ship from Rak—
fare well my agid Parnts
to you I ham Biden a duwe
I ham salen the Briney oashen
orl for the Sake of you
But if ever I Return a gen
that gurl will Make my Bnde
I Holt her in my arms love
down by the tan yaurd Side.”


PEPPER AND SALT.
Adelaide is happy in the possession of a
" Vigilance Association.” Its members constitute
the very cream of South Australian piety. Some
of them—such as Crooks, the bank manager, and
Walker, the Y.M.C.A. secretary—have immor-
talised themselves. Well, the Vigilance Associa-
tion held a meeting the other day “to consider
how to free Parliament from scandalous offenders
against morality.” The idea is to petition the
Assembly— don’t laugh I—to make a law preventing
scandalous offenders from sitting in the House,
We fear the Vigilants’ little joke will fall flat.
The Assembly—on the strength of recent dis-
closures—is far more likely to pass a “ Christian
Young Men’s Suppression Act,” with a special
clause providing for the extermination of curates.
Still, if the Vigilants be in earnest, we can suggest
to them—pass the banjo:—
It is about time that there was a Press
Censorship in N.S.W., if royalty is to he respected
any longer. For some time past we have regarded
the Yass Tribune with suspicion. That suspicion
has grown into a dread certainty. The paper is
disloyal. It dissembles no longer, but shouts this
out that the world may hear“ There is at large
at least one human unit who is non compos mentis.
He it is who solicited the Prince of Wales’ opinion
as to the ‘hundred best books.’ The idea of
existing Royalty criticising Genius is indeed
charming. Wo don’t suppose H.K.H. could—bar
metallicians-name a hundred books. That he
has not read the number in question is almost a
certainty. Now if it had been a question of who
were the hundred prettiest members of the demi
monde, Albert Edward might been have appealed
to with safety, being in such matters a connoisseur
par excellence."
A most appalling responsibility has been
thrown upon us. We have the authority of the
Geelong Times for announcing that at the opening
of the latest London show ‘‘Queen Victoria was
presented by the Prince to the representatives of
the Australian colonies.” Then we are to be sad-
dled with her! Part of the Imperial federation
scheme evidently. Quick—a lively air, please:—
We take this from the order issued by
Lieutenant-Colonel Trice, of the Victorian
Mounted Rifles. It refers to the examination of
probationary officers. '* Fertility of resource
when in difficulties will form part of the practical
examination.” There is scope for much ingenuity
here. We will make a few suggestions for the
benefit of the candidates:—
(1) When you come to this part of the examina-
tion paper, boldly call the examiner aside, and ask
him to tell you confidentially, as between man
and man, what the correct answers are. You
might then ask him for the loan of a fiver till the
next week.
(2.) If you cate to give illustrations of what you
think your fertility of resource would be when in
difficulties you might bear in mind the following
hints:—
Question (say): If, in time of war, one of your
men started for home what would you do with
him ?
Answer: Spare him, so that he might be com-
pany for me when I struck for home.
Question (say): What would you do if your
horse threw you while you were charging down
on the enemy’s square ?
Answer: Lie where I was till the trouble was
over.
Question (say): What, in your opinion, are the
most vital parts of an army ?
Answer: The bread-waggon and the beef-van.
Question (say): If you wLhedto lead the enemy
into a trap, what would you do ?
Answer: Leave the canteen unprotected.
These are only a few illustrations of what we
would coneider straight replies to questions con-
cerning our fertility of resource. But they may
answer the purpose for which they are intended
and that is all we care about. And now we will
take a drink.
• ■ ■
“ The Queen herself wrote the curious
paragraph in the Court Circular, in which the
Duchess of Connaught's confinement was de-
scribed as joyful tidings.”—London paper.
To guard our shores. We’re on for war.
That’s what we are yearnihg for.
Pay we must, and pay we Mil,
That Plain thohias and Plain Biil
May be hailed as peers with speed—
Antel pass the greed I
Let us quite forget cur debts
And send golden epaulettes
To each martial golden calf
Whose commands bid foemen laugh ;
Let us bind oUrselVes to stand
By blue-blooded loafers and
Royal misers feeble-kneed—
Antel pass the greed,
And they'll take all.
Justice Kerferd, of Victoria, is a shocking
example of the effects of political junketings.
For years, the ex-Attorney-General (the friend of
both sides) has been a prominent figure whenever
the lions fed. At official spreads and semi-official
picnics the courteous Kerferd bore himself as a
man must do who means holding ®n to a snug
billet. At the back scratching dinners which sig-
nalise the departure and arrival of brother toilers
to and from Yurrup, Mr. K. was usually to be
found in the flesh. Butnow.ahl now, a change
has come o’er the spirit of the Kerferdlan dream.
Dyspepsia has crept u pon the J ustice in the autumn
of his life. Only last week he had to decline an
invitation on the melancholy ground that “ his
health does not permit him to indulge in ban-
quets.” Ho has climbed the ladler of fame-but
at how great a costl
The other day some heartless person in-
serted the following advertisement in the London
Era:-"Wanted, ladies, 100 for ballet, 50 for
chorus. Only experienced persons need apply.
Good salaries and expenses when on tour, lo
commence immediately in London. Half salaries
rehearsing. Apply any day this week (except
Saturday), to Mr. Hawkins, 13 Cleveland-row, St.
James’.” The consequence was that on the fol-
lowing Monday large numbers of the ladies of the
ballet and female choristers were sesn wending
their way towards the residence of Sir Henry
Hawkins, the eminent judge, who lives at the
address in question. The neighbourhood was
thrown into a state of wonder and surprise; and
the procession of applicants past the windows of
the clubs in Pall-Mall excited much curiosity
among the inmates. It was not until Sir Henry
Hawkins’s butler had seen and dismissed several
hundreds of the shamefully-tricked fair oreatures
that the constantly-increasing crowd became fully
aware that the advt. was a cruel hoax. We don’t
see it stated that Sir Henry Hawkins complained
of being called upon by ballet-girls. It isn’t likely
he would, if we may judge from the trouble taken
by certain eminent ornaments of the Sydney Bench
to make the acquaintance of the ballot. E/en
judges arebut mortal, and some of them in Austra-
lia are very mortal indeed.
First wife : “ And so you say you have hit
upon a plan for keeping your husband at home
every night. How ever do you do it ? ’ Second
wife: “ Well, you see, I have hired a young and
handsome governess for the children, and just
after tea I get her to take the little ones into the
parlour where I leave the lot with my husband
while I go into another room, but never out of
hearing. The governess, being a novelty and very
attractive, Richard remains under the pretence of
amusing the youngsters, and starts telling the
governess fairy tales and lying to her ab out what
a big man he is in the oity, and carrying on just
the same as if he wasn’t the father of live children
and hadn’t a bald head and enough lumbago in his
back to kill a tiger. When 9 o’clock comes, I start
the governeas to bed, and, of course, it’s too late for
her old lunatic admirer to remember that he has an
engagement down town, and I have him all the rest
of the night to myself. Isn't it just grand ? ”
First wife (sadly): “ Well, yes, it appears to
act all right in your case, but it would never
do in mine.” Second Wife : “No ? Then
can’t you try some other plan?” First
Wife (despondingly) : ” Hardly. The only
plan I know to keep Fred, at home would be to
set up a bar in the parlour, and sit and shake for
drinks with him until 3 o’clock ia the morning.”
Second Wife: ” Dear me, Clara, I fear your case is
hopeloss, for if a smart stylish governess can’t
keep a man at home after dark, how on earth can
his wife expect to do so. Take a little SDlff of
* Florida.’ ” A
HOW TO DO IT.
Can a cove with a broomstick sweep backwards
the surges
That roll, day and night, o’er the shingle and
sand,
Singing ever the same sullen, sad, ceaseless dirges
For the loved and long-lost ones that ne’er shall
sight land
Till the day when the ocean yields up all who’re
sleeping
On its cold briny bed? No, he can’t-and we’re
sure
You’ll have just as much luck with this project of
keeping
Your Parliament pure.
They’ll get in there, somehow, there’s naught can
deter ’em—
These black sheep that bring the dark taint in
the fold:
People work for ’em, plump for ’em-seem to pre-
fer ’em:
For e’en as it was in the ages of old,
When King Solomon ruled, and King David, his
father
(Two lawgivers, they, who—we all must allow,
Took more than their share of life’s pleasures,—
yes, rather!)
Just so it is now.
0! grim champions of virtue, that rejoice o’er the
failing
Of weak “friends and brethren ” who fall by the
way—
Keep a watch on yourselves, for we read of your
nailing
The funds of the banks and the Y. M. C. A.
For your present crusade—it is mad, idiotic;
Would you ask men to round on each other’s
amoursl
Men, whose morals, maybe, are no whit more
chaotic
Than are yours.
0! children of light, with blaok coats and smug
faces—
Chill Christians, un-Christlike—now hear and
take heed;
From those kindred “ offenders,” who sit in high
places
And hump round the plate, let your churches be
freed,
Then, if you still dream of expelling each sly fox
That sits in the House, you must work out a plot
Like the one which, of yore, brought such trouble
on Guy Faux—
Blow up the lot!
* * *
“The Anglican Synod is now sitting in
Hobart. The want of sufficient funds was the
burden of the bishop’s address.”—Telegram to
daily paper.—
We need no blessed ghost, we wis,
To tell us that,
We know the burden always is
“ Pass round the hatl”
The sleek young curate learns it soon.
The phrase comes pat
At morning prayers or afternoon,
“Pass round the hatl”
Bush-preacher, bishop trained with skill,
Or parson fat,
The burden of their speech is still
“ Pass round the hat I”
Prom year to year men still remain,
Sit as they sat
For years, to hear the old refrain,
“Pass round the hatl”
What do we hear ? That God is good
And man a vat
Of rice, and (this is understood)
“ Pass round the hat 1 ”
We’re getting somewhat sick of each
Church-acrobat.
The same old tricks, the same old speech,
" Pass round the hat,”
Are palling on us, and, methinks—
But hang all that!
Life’s short enough—we’ll shake for drinks,
*’Pass round the hatl ”
ALASI SIR PATRICK.
A Queensland paper, referring to political
matters in N.S.W., speaks of "Mr. Jennings.”
This is too much. The thigh-bone and the muffled
drum, please.—
Alas, and this is the reward
Of patriotic labours past,
That you should be referred to as
Plain Mister JenniDgs at the last.
They know not of your fame, your rank—
These next-door neighbours—what a star
You’ve been, so you may judge from this
How small a great man, Pat, you are.
Ia your city, foul maligner, (by the way, ia Yass
not a city ?)
You may sit and pen whole TiiiBUNE-fulls of
similar mendacity,
But although upon your readers your audacity
may palm a lie,
It can’t on us—the Prince is of a literary family.
No judge of book?, you think I Wo think it’s like
your Yass stupidity;
Don’t you know the Prince has often read with
profit ana avidity
His mamma’s work, which tells in language plain
yet terse and pointed, with
The tears on every page, what poor Brown’s sore
legs were anointed with ?
Don’t you think the Prince must hold this little
book, so calmly beautiful,
As next the Source of England's Greatness, and, if
he is dutiful
As son and critic write “ best hundred volumes:—
the Divine; of it
One copy; mother’s Journal in the Highlands ;
ninety-nine of it ?
HIS EXCUSE.
WAITING WIFE: “Now you just thought
you’d sneak up-stairs with your shoes in
your hand so’s I wouldn’t know what time
you got home, but”
SURPRISED HUSRAND (interrupting): “No,
no, my dear; ye see I lost the tram, and the
walk home blistered my feet, so I had to take
’em off.”
MERCY!
This is more than we can bear—
The news has knocked us down;
Will they send her over here
With her sceptre and her crown?
Must this country find the brass
To support a tinsel throne?
We have come, alas I
To a pretty pass—
The Queen is all our own.
We would feign decline the gift
Of this awful incubus;
Oh I ’twas mean of Wales to shift
His most gracious Ma on us;
We had stood erect till now:
But the seeds of shame are sown—
We must learn, somehow,
To scrape and bow,
If the Queen is all our own.
Court morals, manners, dress
Seem to Abigail divine;
But, for our part, we confGSS
They arc scarcely in our line;
In the course of lleeting years
We quite grovel-proof have grown,
But sneers and jeers
Must change to “ cheers ”
The Queen is all our own.
This is the meaning of
“ Federation,” then, ’tis clear—
We have got to take the Sov.
And support her over here;
Oh! if it’s not too late,
Let our protest be made known—
That we’d rather wait
Ere we federate,
So, " Britons hold your own."
JOHN BULL ON THAT SUBJECT.
Joyful tidings! One more figure
Come to swell the lengthy list—
Boon to grab the people’s money
With that little dimpled fiat.
Joyful tidings 1 Tell us, theD, of
What do tidings ill consist ?
More than twenty little princes
And princesses, plump and fat,
At the present time are being
Trained to carry round the hat.
Must we hail with joy the advent
Of this newest royal brat I
Does the little mouth, just opened,
Eat the bread of honest toil ?
Does its father earn the wherewith-
al to make his kettle boil ?
Deuce a bit! the ducal dada
Merely scrambles for the spoil.
Joyful tidings! Jubilate!—
Let us grin and bear the blow,
One more little German princelet
Born to reap what Britons sow!
Oh I when comes the next arrival,
Head the awful message, “ Woe!”
TO PLAINER TOM.
It is known that Campbell feared to write
much after the publication of “The Pleasures of
Hope,” lest he might endanger the reputation won
for him by that fine poem. Tennyson has reached a
height of song that Campbell never dreamed of
aspiring to. There is probably nothing in the
whole range of ancient and modern verse more
exalted and inspired than the “ Passing of Arthur ”;
and “ Enoch Arden ” is the perfection of domestic
pathos. “ The Palace of Art ” and the “ Lotus
Eaters ” are jewels that should, “ upon the
stretched forefinger of all time, sparkle for
ever” as he has (rather awkwardly) written. Yet
this isolated Titan of song doesn’t seem to care
much for his reputation. The man who wrote
“Lady Clara Yere de Vere” and “Aylmer’s
Field,” the one a manful and daring, the other a
pathetic protest against Title, has debased his
genius by becoming a lord; the hand that
penned the great “In Memoriam ” has stooped
to perpetrate “ Hands all Round 1 ” And
his last outrage, the Indo - Colonial ode,
is simply a trumoet-toned appeal to tb 0
public for dead cats. Beshrew us if we have
a poet about the place who would for untold
rum put his name to such garbage. And the
Laureate gets an annual butt of wine and a
pension for this kind of thing I Now, just on the
off-chance of a drink from Tom Slattery when he
meets us, we will show you how we can write
international odes. Ths full-toned organ, please:
Ante! ante! In one yell
We announce that we will “ shell ”
Sons of sires who have been sent
In irons to this continent—
Sent as “ lags ” across the flood,
Sent far off and sent for good—
Sons of those who, at the first,
ToiliDg in a land accurst,
Won at length fair fortune’s meed—
Antol pass the greed I
Raise on high the warlike note,
Bow before the Soudan goat;
Let each in the general joy
Act like Manly’s Little Boy.
Let him “ give his little all ”
To speed the British cannon-ball;
Let each, from his hard-won hoards,
Stimulate the British swords.
Now is Britain’s hour of need—
A nte I pass the greed 1
We dwell in a land serene
Where wild war has never been,
Where its ruin should not come—
Let us, therefore, make things hum.
Let the tale be widely told
That we’ve sent Australian gold
So the dear old motherland
Yet may slay black Zulus and
Arabs fighting to be freed—
Antel pass the greed 1
First among us is Plain Bill,
Shall he not be plainer still ?
Our co-patriot Blattery, who
Shows us what we ought to do!
We’ve not parted in the past,
Brothers, let us “ part ” at last.
Fired with warlike ardour from
Our plain Bill-our plainer Tom;
We will make our pockets bloed—
Ante! pass the greed!
We’ve no cash at all to pay
Our own debts from day to day;
Still, if England cares to back
Bills for us, wo’ll pay our whack
We jabbed our pen into the ink—
gcant sound the midnight broke—
But wrote not, for we could not think
Of one poor joke l
We thought, as, on the mantelshelf,
The sleepy clock ticked on
‘‘Oh, would we were like you ourself,
Our tick is gone I”
This fancy was no novelty,
As you will all admit,
But in the House ’twould surely bo
Accounted Wit!
We sighed, ‘‘Ah I” to us what a mine
Of Puns might be revealed
If we could kneel at the same shrine
Where John Cash kneeled I
TheD, suddenly we were aware
Of one of stately guise
Who stood all queenlike by our chair -
From her great eyes
She raised Sham’s bandage, wh'la one hand,
Strong to smite Cant and Sin,
Grasped a great Sword. We knew her and
“ The Bulletin 1”
We cried. She answered, “ Unto me
Your musing stands revealed—
I cash you, as a Wit. Where’s he
Who would cash Neild?”
So vanished. Then at last we went
Right through the Press at once,
Pricked in the sides of our intont
To see those Puns.
At last we read them—all of them I
Our heart’s-blood stood congealed
Until we drowned deep in a dem—
—ijohn Cash Neild 1


“Handing ’em down to Posterity.”
In the N.S.W. Assembly Mr. W. Ciarke said be desired to bring noder the notice of the House certain information he had received from the Government in reply to a question
he had asked. The question he bad asked was-”I. What nnoiber of copies of a book called the 'A Australian Portrail Gallerv' was purchaser by this or peeviaq Governmental.
and by whose authorty? 2 What was the tolal amount, and from what fund was the money paid?” The answer be received was that 500 copies of this book bad been [?]
by the Stuart Government at a cost of £600. The book contained the portraits of a largo number of polltieat celebrities. Some of the skitebes were eulogistic, atheis were
scandalously libellons, whilst, on the other hand. it was pubhsbed to euloise the political [?] of some of our public men. It was a plece of extravagance which he thought
the Houen ought not to to tolerable, and the best thing would befor it to reluse to pay the money, and muke those gontlemen who had oven eulogized pay for it themselves, He asked
what had [?] of this “Portait Gallery?” [ An Ron. Member: Sent to Amsterdam.] At sny rate. the gentleman who authored the expenditure ought to be reprimandes by
the House. The expenditure of that £600 was typical of the extravagant waste of public money dieing [?]. (Hear, hear.) He thought it his duly to bring thie matter before the
House añd the country, so that they might know who was renpobsible for that waste of £600
sdf
jgu (j j; jjijj j i 1 Pfiffi i ll h immi! w
jnj i I Mji j Ijjjljm !in I ~ r
jl! Hffm/I Ii || llllllli illil lillllllllllllll
1111 |jj J 1 111 S(i ffjj Illii
I! ill i IIH
ra in | 1 IIIIIIIHIIIHIIIIIIHIIIIIII l: Wm
Hl|^Wll||ll
gl|plii||i
If
ll' jl JI J j I
I mu


Hugh Georgo.
The main points of this good man’s life have been
fairly and adequately set forth in the Australian
papers -when and where he was born, how he be-
gan life, how he achieved success, how, for five
and thirty years he was at once the figure-head
and main-spring of the biggest newspaper work in
Australia, all these things are found in the records
of the day. Nor has that one big episode—the im-
prisonment in the Victorian Parliament House-
been missed. All has been told, and well and
kindly told, for each recording scribe was the old
man’s friend. Nine out of 10, indeed, were under
direct personal obligation to him—the cherished
obligation which grows with years of kindly
counsel and sympathetic friendship and guldanoe
Hugh George was a big man. Any good pressman
is a big man, and the man who manages pressmen
aright is somewhat bigger perhaps at least in the
patience, taot, and self-control which are the
lubricants and governors of all the gear of
life. But, while acknowledging the ade-
quacy of the record already made, we feel
that there is something for us to say-
something that folks generally will care to hear,
and that will help them to remember the men they
knew, or to conjure ud the man all pressmen
loved, and all oitymen of Melbourne and Sydney
honoured and esteemed. We want to paint the
little men, dressed usually in grey, gray through-
out. His hair thick and close cropped, had
soarcely changed in colour through the past 10
years. We remember the hair and board always
of the same fine healthy grey. The eyes grey also,
though with a light of blue, like the flash of steel
when on occasion they did flash; and clothes al-
most always grey. A little man in grey, for he
was not more than 5ft. 6in. in height, but well and
strongly built, straight and square in body as in
mind. So all those who knew him remember him,
seated duriDg his Sydney career in the little room
on the first floor of the Herald office; his door
always open, his ear, heart, and understanding
also.
I remember in the winter of last year,
when half a dozen pressmen and “the old
man ” in the midst of us (for we never if we
could help it started without him) passed a
glorious time on Lake Narrabeen. It seems but
yesterday that pleasant calm grey day. The old man
in the stern rf the boat, suggesting quietly that it
might be better to take a man along because there
was an after-dinner time to be considered when
“exertion spoiled good conversation,” and oppos-
ing a certain proposal to climb up to a Trig-station
on the shore, he “ having arrived at a time cf life
when mountain heights wf ra matters upon which
it was always well to accept existing evidence.”
And how genial was he over an after-dinner glass
of wine I—how keen was his appreciation of every
little vein of humour that sparkled scross the
surface of common-place talk I EheuI ’Tis scarce
a year ago. But there is another time somewhat
farther lack when the old “ Vag.,” not in very
good heart just then, was quitting Sydney, and a
few of us agreed to give him a bit of a send-off.
Would Mr. George come ? Of course Mr. George
would come—wby on earth shouldn’t he come?
If it was anything to help one of the orait aloDg
we might know he would always come. And he
did come, satin the chair, and when the proper
time arrived got up to say just the pleasantest and
best things one man could s»y of another, to put
all the shining facts he knew together, and to give
the man himself such a picture of himself as must
needs stir him up like good old wine whenever he
thought about it.
One of the best pictures I have of Hugh
George is in connection with that little
dinner, one amongst many. ’Tis easy to
recall the Manly Beach trips of course,
the Saturday afternoons and Sunday morn-
ings, when the bothers of the work were
blown away. All travellers by those boats
must have known the little man in grey. But
there is just one other memory, and it is so recent
as to be almost sacred. It is indeed but of Wed-
nesday last, the day upon which Mr. George left
Sydney for Melbourne, that by one of those pecu-
liarly lortunate strokes of fate which come to us
all at times, I. the writer, walking up Bent street,
met Mr. George by the side gate of the Union
Club. And we stood beneath the shade of the
trees there and talked awhile. There was no
reason why we should have stood so. It was 10 to
one that we should have passed with a nod. But
he baited, stood over by the fence and said, “How
are you getting on?” And so we began to talk-
first of men, all the pressmen in the city. It need
not be said that he anew them all. Then df mat-
ters, Press matters, of course. He talked of the
Herald, and now it seems to me more as one who
reviews the past than with aDy large interest in
the future.—of the other daily papers of the city,
of this Bulletin, In wnicb, some years ago, he
had a considerable interest. He knew what they
all should do, he could make good guesses at what
they all would do. He predicted the future
of each, sketched out their proper and
legi i nate lines of develop 2 eat; showed the
bye-ways they would probably enter, and
the oertain loss and probable defeat they
would find. And alter a good half-hour thus he
spoke sorrowfully and briefly of himself. He was
not well—there was something about him he could
not understand—he would take a turn in Mel-
bourne. and might come-to amongst his old asso-
ciates, “ but if things do not change shortly—well,
it's all up.” 80 we parted, and two minutes later
I saw him turn into O'Connell-street and pass out
of my sight for ever. It seems strange to realise
it now, hard to understand that we are talking
about a man whose living human form has gone to
dust and ashes-who will be missed from his old
haunts here henceforth for ever. But, so it is.
Gone as we all must go, and, putting all customary
cant out of the road, gone in the best possible
way. He had said good-bye to us all in Sydney,
and he wanted to go down for one more look in
Melbourne. He had his look. Just one day to
shake a thousand friends by the hand, and then
that something he could not understand made it-
self very comprehensible and took him away
suddenly, aod without much shook or pain, to
all those other friends from whom he had been
parted for days, or weeks, or months or years.
It is not, as is very well known, our habit to dis-
cuss the spiritual aspect of any matter, but, going
out of the way for once we may say that Hugh
George, though not much of a PreBbyteriaD, was a
good deal of a Christian. He did not bother
churches much, though whenever a good church-
man stood out of the ruck and ahook away his
fetters he found the old blsnop amorgst the
preachers and teachers of the Press behind him.
The old man died in his club, living his useful and
genial life, ana earing very little for the things to
be. He would have died just the same In his bed
had it been his ill-luck to have had his life-thread
fretted away by weeks of painful illness. He had
fought a very good fight and covered a very fair
field of duty, and trained and disciplined for 64
years a good honest-workiDg soul. If it falls to
him to continue on in any otner style of existence
he won’t need to put back much, for the sort of
work be was mainly given to was what may fairly
be termed of righteousness-useful and accept-
able and rare in this world, and beyond doubt
welcome in any other.
“ Tell me your company and I’ll you who
you are.” We read that Parliamentary petitions
against Sir Alfred Stephen's Divorce Extension
[till are lying (which can be read in two wsys)
for signature at the Church Society's-rooms,
the rooms of the Young Men’s Christian Associa-
tion, the Church of England book depot, and the
Salvation Army barracks. The petition couldn’t
b 9 in better company. The members of the Ba'-
vation Army are In all countries good authorities
on the sanctity of the marriage laws.
Mrs. Sarah Paine, of Adams township,
who died a few days’ Bgo, had lived niuety-seveu
years, given birth to eleven children, and counted
among her descendants thirty live grandchildren,
eighty-one great grandchildren, and elevon great
great grandchildren, eacn one of whom were boyr,
and were fitted out in the wear-resisting suits from
Summerfield and Company, tie Groat Juvenile
Outfitters, 335 and 337 Pitt-street, Sydney, who
send their illustrated catalogue of styles post free
to ladies residing in the country.*
THE CORNSTALK IN LONDON.
ENGLISH GOSSIP. PROM “ THE BULLETIN’S”
AG ENT-GENERAL.
London, Bth April.
Dear Bulletin,—Sir Alexander Stuar
has “come to hand” at last. We have been
anxiously expecting him tor some time. Not,
mind you, that he is particularly required. That
£lOO a month and a trip to the old country is easily
earned. The backbone of the work which should
have been Sir Alick’s in connection with the pre-
paration of the N.S.W. court has been broken by
your indefatigable Agent-General, with the
valuable assistance of Mr. George C. Levey. I
may venture en passant to express the opinion
(probably it has been more ably expressed before)
that the appointment of Sir A. Bcuart as N.S.W.
Commissioner to the Indian and Colonial Exhibi-
tion was a piece of absurd extravagance (N.S.W.
can at present afford to be extravagant 1) and mis-
management—not to breathe the objectionable
word ‘‘jobbery.” The other and at present mere
financially stable colonies, with economic wisdom,
appointed their respective Agents-General to the
duties. Clever N.S.W., which must be singular in
everything since the Soudan fizzle, withheld its
confidence from Sir Saul Samuel, who (not to
draw a too close comparison which might be con-
sidered odious) is at any rate far from being the
least able of the Agents-General, and sent over a
worn-out paralysed statesman—l shou'd rather say
politician, whose reign of power has been more
disastrous than that of any other man within the
history of the colony.
# * *
Well, as 1 was saying when I interrupted
myself, we have been anxiously expecting the
missing link that has done so much lately to
strengthen the golden chams which bind the
colony to the motner country. I have often re-
marked that giddy young Australians en route to
England, riot America—medical students and the
like—almost invariably suffer "unavoidable de-
tention” in New York, and have been inclined to
suspect that the notorious gaiety of the American
capital has much to answer for in that respect.
But what are we to think of the case of an elderly
gentleman of remarkable appearance who has
been non est inventus for tome time ?
* * *
Our uneasiness while this “mysterious dis-
appearance” lasted has been painful to witness
and hear, but thank heaven! it is now over. The
great man has arrived, looking a little played-out
it is true, but sti.l with the unmistakable air of
K.C.MG. about him. I have been fortunate
enough to know Bir Alexander by sight (I could’nt
mistake him if we met at a dog fight!) since I was
an enfant terrible, the beloved of the “ tom-boy ”
schoolgirl, and the abhorred of the orchard owner,
but many of my acquaintances here have never
had the pleasure ot setting eyes on your com-
missioner, and I am daily pestered with requests for
an introduction. These requests I feel, as an Aus-
tralian, unwilling to comply with. Why, oh why, if
you m ust send a representative did you not pack off
that clever showy and effervescent Dailey or the
pompous and aristooratic Jennings? Burely you
might bave well spared at least Sir Patrick for
twelve months I
m * 9
Apropos to the arrival of Sir Alexander
Stuart, i msy mention that an impression is fast
gaining ground amongst English people that New
South Welshmen are below the average biped in
physical charms, and I have been to same pains to
point out (I should certainly be rewarded by the
colony with a purse of sovereigns or be recom-
menced for a C.M.G -ship) the erroneous estimate
formed by the observation and inspection of
persons who have certainly come from the ,
colonies, but who originally went, or were seDt (
there. Am I wrong in suggesting that Sir Alick
(par exemple) is indebted to Scotland for his birth
and to “ Heelanders ” for his beauty, while N.S.W.
can only claim tfce honour of having fos-
tered his geDius! in these arguments, lam
pJso able to point to our cricketers. Surely Bon-
nor is good-looking enough to answer all neces-
sary purposes, while Murdoch is quite too tran-
scendantiy lovely. Ted. Evans, it is true, will not
more than pass in a crowd, acdSpofforth is but so-
eo; but 30-so is good—very excellent good—with a
lump of leather in his fist, and the Englishmen in
the summer will be too busily engaged in the
effort of keeping their bails on to admit of a criti-
cal analysis of the features of either of those
heroes. When these arguments fail to convince I
have simply to assume a graceful pose and re-
mark : “ I am a born Australian, and so is my
friend Patchett Martin 1”
* • .9
Talking of the cricketers reminds me that
Alick Bannerman is left behind this time. Alick
is another of the famous Alicksl have had my
“ Umps ”on since my knickerbooker days. I re-
member, when he worked at Aloock’s Tannery,
watching him play with a local club of a Saturday
afternoon on that piese of unclaimed ground at
Enmore. Later on, if my memory is not as frail as
Tom Garrett’s supporters, Alickwasto theforeasa
storeman in the mercantile house of S. De Ltsea
and Co., in Barrack-street. His cricketing genius
afterwards pushed him up in the world, a place
was found for him—and one for Charlie, too—in
the Government Printing Office, and Alick be-
came, and has since remained, no end of aswe.l,
with, I have detected to my sorrow, a disinclina-
tion to be reminded of eaily associations, just as
if he was not as good a man when he tanned the
leather, as he is now that he wears the pointed
boots and the dog-skin gloves! The bitterness of
the world was again illustrated when I chanced
again to meet the diminutive but sturdy batsman
in Belfast, Ireland, in ’BO. Murdoch’s team had
oome there to play 18 of the North of Ireland C C.
I was staying in the neighbourhood with some
friends at the time. Do let me tell you the story
of the match. It's rather a good one. On
the verandah of the pavilion I sat next to
an exceedingly handsome old man (a par-
son), who, i.i the course of a conversation
we entered upon turned out to be a poet, an
enthusiastic lover of the national game and a
brother of the then living Charles Badham, one
of the best men N.S.W. ever possessed. While we
talked the match progressed, and to the ecstatic
delight of the local element the eighteen had
decidedly the best of it In the last Innings our
men haa to go to the wickets with a big score to
make up, and the task looked rather hopeless
against fair bowling and eig hteen active Olrishmen
to stop the ball. Odds were freely laid on the
N.I.C.C. and Mr. Badham’s son, a genuine North
Irish lad of 30, who sat on one side of me,
whispered in my ear an inclination to lay me four
to three, in crowns, on his countrymen. In the
same tone of voice I accepted. Murdoch and
Alick Bannerman went to the wiokets and pegged
away until the reouired number were registered
all but three or four. Then one of them retired,
Giffen went in, someone hit the ball to the
boundary, and 1 pocketed young Badham’s little
soy., which we managed to sink—it was a warm
day—before we parted, unobserved by the gentle
parson.
* * *
No larks at the old Tavistook in Covent
Garden for you this year, Alick my lad! But
work up you,r form, and come over and discuss a
chop with me in the Gaiety grill-room next
season.
* * *
I hurriedly mentioned the departure of
A. G. Taj lor last week. He was gone like a flash
of greased lightning. Within twelve hours of
the arrangements of the passage by Sir Saul, he
was on board with his wife and mother, and, I am
i lad to know, more comfortably quartered than
on the home journey. Stay! I am scarcely correct.
He is on his “come’ journey now. Australia is
home to the true Austra.ian. The native who
repudiates bis birth place and speaks of England
as " home ”is both a fraud and a fool. I regret
to say that I have met several of that “ Id-noy.”
I am glad Taylor is well started, tor he was utterly
miserable here. Whether he would bave been in
such a hurry to depart if he had been staying at
the “ Grand ” and parting hundreds instead of
I retting his heart out with empty pockets in Chob-
ham-road K., is a question we need |not discuss:
but don’t you think it a pity that his trip afforded
him a glimpse only of the seamiest side of London ?
For instance, for a young politician to have spent
months within a ’bus ride of the House of Com-
mons, and not to have spent an evening within its
walls, is rather a distressing reflection. Mr. and
Mrs. Taylor had but two outings while here—they
spent a day at the Albprt Palace (a new imitation
of the Crystal Palace at Battersea), and an evening
at Drury Lane Theatre. The West End and even
the parks, they saw nothing of, and they leave
utterly ignorant of the magnificence and oppres-
sive vastness of the world’s metropolis. We (the
adjective includes two or three Anglo-Australian
ink-slingers) were disappointed at Taylor’s sudden
departure, as we looked for the opportunity of
bidding him good-bye at some sort of a cheerful,
modest re-union we meditated fixing up. We
were obliged to content ourselves with wiring our
God speeds to Plymouth, from whence letters
arrived to-day, describing things as “All serene.”
* * *
Now let us gossip of the Murray-Smith
banquet. The committee—of which Sir Saul
Samuel was chairman—courteously sent me a
ticket. By the labouisof my confreres you havo
probably bad a full, true, and particular account
of the whole affair in the dailies, even to the key
of the hiccups which unfortunately seized the
Royal Duke, and the persistency with which our
mutual friend, Lord Rosebery, called for Irroy. I
may, therefore, confine my remarks to personal
adventures and impressions. I arrived on the
scene of action—the Freemasons’ Tavern—at the
same moment as Sir Alexander Stuart, and we
entered the reception rooms together. The
crowd had just commenced to strike a bee-
line for the banqueting-hall. What a lot
of them there were to be sure (over 300), and
such quiet, respectable, law-abiding looking per-
sons I Here and there I noticed a beetling brow,
and softly whispered to myself, “ Bt. Michael and
St. George;” and occasionally I caught a sunken
sinister eye, and knew that a hungry journalist
was enviously wondering where I have my linen
got up, or speculating as to whether the diamond
in my stud came from Brazil or Glasgow. Some
years since, when i was inspecting public buildings
in Sydney, the Houses of Parliament had a great
fascination for me, and I spent many hours in the
strangers’ galleries Well, the general appearance
of the visitors at the Murray-Smith banquet re-
minded me forcibly of the members of the Legisla-
tive Council. That should convey volumes of
close type to you. Nearly all the faces were familiar
to me, but I knew, very few of their owners. I
was fearfully nervous. I feared the Commander-
in-Chisf might overwhelm me by offering me his
suuff-box, or by mistaking me for Lord Rosebery.
The likeness between us is said to be remarkable.
I was also afraid to open my mouth lest I ad-
dressed some distinguished person in mistake for
a waiter, or vice versa. How absurdly incon-
venient it is, by the way, that the costume of
waiter and waited-upon should be so similar—
especially in these plutocratic days. I was nervous,
too, of being placed at table next to total strangers.
One never w hom one may meet in these
mixed assemblages. Fortune, however, was kind to
me. In the reception-room there were too many
aspirants for the )ionour of speaking to his Royal
Hlghnesp, or of even toucning the hem of his
garments, to admit of his seeing me and making
mistakes; I spoke to no one, and therefore made
no enemies, ann when we scrambled to table I
found to my delight and relief that I bad fallen
among friends and had escaped the fate of the
man who journeyed to Jericho. On my right was
A. Patchett Martir, and next him was placed his
“pardner” in the Anglo-Australian Agency
business, G. C. Levey, a C.M.G., it is true,
but is it not commonly said that “there
are good and bad of all sorts?” We, too,
—happy mortals!—were within a few yards
of the chair with its royal occupant, bathed
as it were in the effulgent radiance which, of
course, surrounds the Queen’s first cousin and a
grandnephew of that truly good and great man
George IY. It was appropriate in one way that
Messrs. Spiers and Pond, returned Victorians,
should Citer for the Murray-Smith banquet, but I
regret to say that the management was not suffi-
ciently patriotic to rise to the occasion. The
dinner was sufficiently elaborate and fairly eatable,
but it might have been much better, and the nig-
gardly spirit displayed towards the close, and when
the taliing and toasting began, was distressing.
Considering the difficulty,—almost the impossibi-
lity—of getting a bottle of champagne within hail,
the enthusiasm displayed was remarkable. At
one point it was a little tqo remarkable. When
your own Sir Saul—the only Sir Saul—rose to
reply to the toast of “ The Empire,'’ proposed in
an eloquent speech by Earl Granville, there were
noisy and prolonged cries for Lord Rosebery.
This was horribly bad taste and the worst of form,
but I fear that a knowledge of what is good form
and taste was not as general ia the company as
might havo been supposed, Sir Saul proceeded
with his speech, which was short and statistical.
Later on, Lord Rosebery, at the request of the
chairman, satisfied his too ardent admirers by a
few words big with Imperial Federation. It was
about this time that I began to lose all apprecia-
tion in the proceedings, especially as no “smokes”
were on the table, and I had left.my cigarette-case
at home.
Ever yours,
A. B. ORIGINAL.
BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
A fair attendance put in an appearance at
Canterbury Park meetiDg last Saturday, when the
ground k&ptuß its unenviable notoriety for acci-
dents, Pirate, Galatea, and Casket coming to grief
in the May handicap, the outcome of which was a
broken collarbone for John Gough. We have an
Animal s Protection Society which might well take
the jockeys under its wing, for youngsters in their
teens connected with raoing stables, have as a
rule little more to say in the matter of a
mount, than a horse put to work with a galled
shoulder has over his trouble. However, the equine
receives the protection of the law, whilst the
youngster, who should be still at his mother’s
apron-striDgs, is allowed to risk his life over a
dangerous course. But then its the "sport of
kings.” doncherknow. One prominent jockey, at
least, thought disoietion the better part of valour
on Saturday, and we dare say there were a good
many more who would have liked to follow his
example, had they been at their free will, or could
have afforded to be so fastidious in the matter of
their mounts. The Flying Handicap resulted in a
win for Fuse, well ridden by yourg Kelso, who
beat the favorite, Mackay, by a nose alter a great
struggle. Eucalyptus at 6 to 4 on made a win
of the Selling race from Sundial. Florenoe
started at even money for the May Handicap, and
leading into the straight appeared to have the race
well in hand, but Davis eased the mare down, and
Harris on Ellington dashing up on the inside,
caught him napping and snatched a victory by a
neck, Binalong third Sundial won the Prince of
Walts Stakes from Jack; and Fmrence partly
made up for her defeat in the May Handicap by
annexing the Ladies’ Bracelet from Terrapee.
» * *
The meeting between Backhouse and
Wulf, over the champion course on Saturday last,
resulted in a very easy victory for Wulf in the
stated time of 25min. Backhouse led at
the mile point, but his erratic steering spoiled
whatever show he had, and Wulf made a very
easy thing of it.
• * *
Nothing further has been done towards
a match between the rival champions of England
aud America. Bmith, the Englishman, wasts to
tight for £2OO aside in England, and Suilivan, the
Yankee, wishes the affair to come off on American
soil fur a stake ol from £lOOO to £2OOO aside, Smith
to receive £2OO expenses. Of the two trysting
grouuds we fancy the meeting would have the
tetter show of coming to a satisfactory conclusion
iu America As for fair play England, it was said
at tne time tbat Molmeux, the black, had Tom
Cribb across the ropes when the roughs smashed
his baud with a stick; then there was the Sayers
and Heenan fight with its blackguard termination,
and the other day th-3 English roughs did a smash-
lng-up at the Smith-Greenfield fight on Frenoh
soil. The British rough is a great believer in “ fair
play so long as his side is winning.
* * *
The first match of any moment for the
Gardiner football cup came off on Saturday after-
noon. between the newly formed Gordon club and
the Universitys, when the Gordons put the Uni-
veisity team through their facings, by four points
to nil. The Gordons are composed of renegades,
or, perhaps, we had better call them seceders from
the Wallaroo, Red fern, Balmain and St. Leonards
clubs, and that they form a strong team is evi-
denced by the fact that they beat the University
elub on its merits on Saturday last.
* * *
Brute-ball is a more appropriate term than
football in connection witn the match on Moore
Park, between the Albion and Redfern elubs.
Such a conglomeration of players and onlookers
was never yet seen, and no less than three pugilis-
tic encounters of various degrees of skilfulness
were gone through, while the rough-and-tumble
was in progress. During the afternoons looker-
on of the feminine persuasion became entangled
in the crowd, and a big display of embroidery was
the result.
• * *
On dit that an attempt will be made next
season by the senior clubs to promote a oup com-
petition and play all the matohes on the Domain
Ground.
* ■ *
The match between the Warwieks and
Belvideres has so far been conspicuous for.the bad
form shown by both sides with the bat. Warwicks
were all disposed of for 76, the only donble figures
being Hiddleston 12. Cottam 10, and Hume 18; and
the Belvideres lost three wickets for 21 runs. The
junior representatives in each team acquitted
themselves remarkably well, the form, confidence,
and patience exhibited by young Hume in this
his maiden effort, showing that we have not
yet heard the last of this youngster in the
cricketing world.
* * *
Contrary to expectation, the Wentworth
representatives totted up the highly-respectahle
soore of 162 tuds in their match against the
Osbornes for the M'Quade Cup. Their success was
mainly due to the excellent stand made by
Dickens and Busoher, the former running ud 49
before he was run out.
*. * *
i'he Australian eleven showed their weak
spot-batting-in their first match on English soil,
when they were beaten by Lord Sheffield's team
by eight wickets; but the cornstalks can scarcely
have yet lost their sea-legs. The excuse offered
by the Herald correspondent-“bad weather;
good fielding and bowling on the part of the. En-
glishmen —is about as good as saying the reason
Beach beat Hanlan was because the Canuck did
not row fast enough.
* • *
Foley’s Hall was packed on Saturday
? iece de f distance, as the Nooze
come off. owing to the absence
of Jack Hall, who did. not show up to administer
the gruelling which the redoubtable Fogarty was
in waiting to receive. Several well-contested
bouts were gone through before, in the absence
of Hall and Fogarty, the choicest morsel of the
evening came on in the shape of a Queensberry
contest, as arranged for endurance ” between
Pablo Frank and a San Franciscan, recently ar-
rived from the Pdoiflc Coast. Pablo has a big
lump the best of the American in avoirdupois,
and the American played into the big ’un’s hands
by rushiDg like a bull at his opponent, who either
met him with a smashing left-hander or a knock-
down crosi counter. The visitor is as plucky as
they make’em, for Foley had hard work to per!
suade him he had had enough, and we should like
to see him perform on something nearer his own
weight.
* ♦ ♦
The pugs across the herring pond have
been very busy stnoe we reoeived last exchanges.
First and foremost was the meeting of Jack
Dempsey, the “Nonpareil” of the prize ring as
a ,? d ? eoTge Le Blanch™
The Marine, with small gloves, to a finish.
Dempsey is the middle weight champion, and is a
Phenomena filter. He weighs 10it. 81b, in con-
dition, is 24 years of age. and has never been
beaten, having won no less than 27 battles and
drawn four. ,T The Marine ” weighed list, lib nn
the day of the lisrht, has done some first-rate work
in the riDg, and it wrs thought would have
a good show of putting Dempsey inlo his little cot!
They fought 13 rounds, and a N. Y. paper thus de-
scribes the finish of the contest:—“ Le Blanche is
JookiDg wretched. Both his eyes are swollen and
disc .loured. His cheek is open nearly ha?£wav
across. He seems desperate and disheartened
Dempsey sees it, and, dsshing upon him, delivers
two heavy body blows. One-a staggering stroke
-lands just above the heart. The Marine totters
but with an effort makes shift to close and fight at
short arm. ‘Break!’ Tlu-y are apart 9«min and
Le Blanche is fighting desperately. But what is
the matter with him ? His blows are wild and
swinging. His legs are unsteady. He is get-
ting groggy. Once he dashes his flat against
Dempsey’s neck, and then Dempsey plants a
sounding blow upon his face. Before it Le
Blanche totters and in a moment he is’ flat
upon his back. Dempsey draws back and
waits for him to rise. But the gory face is nnir
half lifted from the ground before he sinks baok
again. And then a painful sight is witnessed. Le
Blanche is fairly knocked out, but the game heart
of the plucky fellow struggles to sustain®
Again and again he tries to rise, sinks hack, turns
over and wriggles on the ground like a worm.
Time is almost up. Already the second is demand-
ing the battle, when the prostrate) man struggles
to bis feet, laises his hands in an of
offence, uplifts his battered visage and stag-
gers across the ring just as Dempsey springs for-
ward, and with a generous impulse, catches up
his vanquished foe and holds him in his arms ”
Tfce next best was the meet between Dick
Matthews, who recently whipped all Maoriland, and
Jack Brady, the Paciflo coast heavy-weight cham-
pion. Small gloves were used, and six rounds
were gone tnrough before Matthews sang a little
lullaby to Brady, and became heavy-weight cham-
pion of the Pacific coast.
* * *
It was in England, and they were discuss-
ing the visit of the Australians. Eater the Phan-
tom Punster. “ Great Scott I*• said he “ vou
should see Evans howl. Giffen a fiery wicket if
he doesn’t Blackham with Bruces, vou bet ne’ll
make some of ’em Tremble.” They flattened him
out with their heels at once.
* ♦ *
The news that Despot has been sold for
the Indian market should be glad tidings to the
noble army of backers. Ever since fhe
first favourite for the Melbourne Cup of
1883, and Loished somewhere behind his stable
companion Martini-Henry, he has been a veritable
flatoatoher. Times out of number hai the money
been planked down on Despot as though the race
was all over, bar shouting, yet he leaves Australia
a maiden. Somehow, the stable and the public
were never tired of finding excuses for their idol’s
defeat. When he fell—which wss frequently—it
was always taken for granted that he must have
pome in alone barring the accident. Only once or
twioe did this arch-deceiver show anything ap-
proaching good form, and then it wasn’t within
pounds of his trials. Taking Despot for ail in all,
we should think he was about the most expensive
animal that Mr. White ever owned.
It was thought that the picnic arranged
for last Saturday by the R.S.Y.G, to their Commo-
dorc,> Mr. James Fairfax, of the S.M. Herald.
would have been postponed out of respect for the
memory of Mr. Hugh George, the Herald’s
general manager, who died suddenly on Fridav
night. Reading between the lines of the Gover-
pors Reeling speech on the occasion it would seem
tfcat his Excellency was somewhat surprised to
find that some of Mr. George’s closest and moat
intimate friends could bring themselves to attend
a jovial qpienio almost before his unburled bodv
was cold, ’


The extravagantly high patent fees oharged
by the N.S.W. Government suggest that whatever
may be the mother of invention the Treasury is
the Uncle Shylook thereof.
, ~ , , „ ,
It was nowoeable that when the «&el-
bourne Presbyterian clergymen oolleotively
prayed for rain, the other day, hardly a mother s
In Sydney Botanical Gardens.
GRAVY BONES'S YOUNG MAN (loq.): “HA : SHE THINKS WE’RE AIDERONGS.”
son of them brought his umbrella. There is a lot
to think about in that fact.
A man i$ to be tried at Deniliquin for
false pretences. He brought to the local rabbit-
officer skins fixed up so that two were made to
appear as three. The dodge is one of a kind daily
practised by grog-watering, grog-making mer-
chants who sell pint and quart bottles which are
invariably under the nominal measure—three of
the nominal liquid pints aotually amounting to no
more than two standard ones. However, this ras-
cally rabbiter, who is a retailer with small profits,
needs putting down much more than the. other
fellow, who is usually a mau of muoh wealth and
influence and apewnolder; besides, be does it by
the cargo. We are glad to see the majesty of the
law vindicated in the case of this Deniliquin ruf-
fian, who seeks thus to despoil the Consolidated
Revenue,
The Shoalhaven Naws treat its readers to
a column and a half each issue of the diary of a
Mr. M’Arthur, which he kept on a voyage from
Sydney to Europe. It is full of stirring incidents
and picturesque detail: “ Tuesday, March 13.—Fine
morning, oapltal breakfast, strolled around the
deck and thought of nothing at all. When will
the dinner bell ring ? 12. Capital dinner, could
have wished the soup thicker. 5 p.m. Breeze
steady. Bell Will ring for tea shortly. Will note
in diary whether salads fresh. March 14 —Walk
on deck to get appetite. Breakfast, sausage and
onions, coffee decidedly weak ’’—and so oa. We
anxiously watch for the next instalment, as the
most minute particulars of a trio to Europe are
significant now. We hope to hear what B'snarck
gave Mac for breakfast, and whether he sjunded
him as to the views of Shoilhavea on the Euro-
pean outlook.
A certain Queensland hotelkeeper claims
to be lineally desseaded from a famous marshal of
the First Empire whose name he bears. An un-
believing oommereial traveller was up his way
lately, and, hearing the legend, promised to send
the man of whisky a portrait of hts distin-
guished progenitor. On getting back to Bydney
the “ drummer ” bought the engraving of Ohini-
quy, the pious French humbug who visited Aus-
tralia a few years ago, and mailed it on to this
well-connected friend ss that of the marshal. The
picture was duly framed and hung up in the pr -
vate room of the publicas, who took considerable
pride in pointing it out to especially privileged
customers as that of his immortal ancestor. Tf>>
trouble came in, however, when the local prien
wss shown ■* the pietur,” and asked byitsowr
whether he didn’t think it a magnificent port
The publican is how slightly better.


THIS WICKED WORLD.
A Maryborough (Q.) exchange writes :
‘ The Sydney Bulletin was admitted, not with-
out much clerical opposition, to the reading-room
of the School of Aris, and it is now monopolised
by the parsons, the laity being obliged to wait
around until the cloth have done with it.” Just
so. First abuse, then use, lastly monopolise.
That's always the way with the clergy.... A tra-
veller rode up to a hotel between Toowoomba and
Cambooya, and demanded a ‘‘whisky and soda”
from a verdant youth, who thereupon called out,
“Mother, where’s the baking soda; this gentle-
man wants some in his whisky 1”....The Victorian
Water Commissioners wondered why at the Pros-
pect (N.S W.) water-works, the earth of which the
dam is being made was not brought down by
steam on tramways instead of in 400 horse-carts.
From the D.T.’s overland passenger-list:
“ Mrs. Blank (2), Mrs. Aarons (3) ’’—and so on.
What is it—Mormonism ? What with our
erioketers, our Beach, our exhibition, and our
riflemen the Australian kangaroo will have a
lively time in England this year. It is,
however, hoped that somebody will sit on
Sladen and keep down his doggerel... ,W.
H. Neale, aged 84, who arrived at Port Adelaide
by the first passenger vessel, is dead Tenterfleld
Record raises a tocsin against Gladstone and his
Irish proposals. It is locally hoped that the
Record will reach England in time to strengthen
Salisbury's position. ...On dit that the King reef
at the new Croydon goldfield will go 50oz. One
thousand men on the field... The Burra corre-
spondent of the Kapunda (S.A.) Herald writes:—
“The country is in an awful state. I have seen
men who came down from the borders of Queer s-
land, and they were unable to find any work all
the way down. I hiard some of them say that
they offered their serviees for their tucker, but
were even refused that. No matter where you go
or whom you see that is in want of work, the cry is
poverty.” —A witness in a reoeHt oa»e heard be-
fore the Townsville bench was chewing a plug of
tobacco in the box and expectorating ad nauseam.
But what else can you expect in a country where
three Ja P. are run into the dock on one morn-
ing? — Dr. York, representing the atheists, and
Mr. Long, of Glasgow, a red-hot Calvinist, are
going to argue publicly at Brisbane, and divide the
gate-money.... The Rev. Mr. Cameron, of Victoria,
has be?n badly hurt by falling irom his horse. The
moke bucked—was too religious—wanted to
spread the gospel. At Charters Tow rs,
Queentor, and Millohester, there is much Sun-
day gambling. Th<ideuB O'Kane somewhat
inconsequentially exclaims that: ‘‘lf the parsons
and priests and justices turned to and provided
some innooent and healthy amusement for the
people on Sundays they would do some good
Now, with their infernal clangiog of bells and their
holy howling, they are enough to drive the
miners to cards or dice or any other recreation.’’
A turnip, weighing has been left at the
Adelong Argus. It has brmn placed close to the
editor's heart... From Vanity Fair (London):—
‘'lt is a piece of thoughtful kindness of Sir W.
Clarke, the Australian baronet, to have remitted
£250 to the Unemployed Fund. I noticed that one
of our greatest territorial dukes only gave £5
The Sydney Express publishes the Synodical
letter of the Bishops of the Plenary Council held
in 1885, together with the Pope s reply. It takes
up a solid column and a half of sturdy Latin,
which, we doubt not, will form a nourishing
change from the ricketty Eoglish to which its faith-
ful readers are accustomed Governor Loch had
thechoieeof wood or brick for the front of his
State-providod mansion at Macedon. He looked
up the mount, saw the residence of David Syme.
Esq., of the Age, and selected the cheaper ma-
terial-wood— Look at this, now, from one Bega
editor to another Query. What is the extent
of self-respect in a biped who is a big Jiar, and
knows he is?” Positive, big liar, comparative
Bega liar, we Buppise Tne apotheosis of
‘‘cheek” has some off at last. Victorian bank
employees are forming a Bankers’ Union. We
have always bBen of opinion that the protection
of their interests has been the principal business
of the bankers a’l along... .Professor Morris,
speaking to the Melbourne Shakespeare Society
the other night, referred to Shakespeare as “our
patron saint.” How the author of the “ Merry
Wives of Windsor” would guffaw if he heard
thatl This Shakespoarolatry is getting too ridi-
culous. “ Our pitron saint!’’ Poohl Attend
to this, ye young-lady readers or London
Journals, and be warned in time. A man was
arrested at Adelaide the other day, charged with
30 petty larcenies, varying in amount from 41. to
2i. 91. They chiefly assumed the shape of cheese.
His name was Arvii Hilarion Monckton. Carry us
out to die...‘‘Mr. Walker, of Kynipsey, has im-
ported one of tho latest and most improved
hearses. It has glass sides, and is surmounted by
heavy plumes, and is i splendid specimen of the
vehicular artist's work.”— Macleay Argus. ...
Auokland Star, speaking of the sentiments of
loyalty and patriotism cherished by colonists, says ;
“Tne Poet Liureate takes up the note in lines
that are worthy even of his great reputation.’,
Had the ode been sent to any fi r st class English o r
American periodical with somebody else's name
appended n would hava been pitahed our into the
mud.... An Auckland traveller scrib-
bled on the lly-leaf of a boarding-house Bible
“Less Bibles and better beds.”—Tenterfleld pro.
phesie3 downfall of Australian colonisation unless
the N S.W. and Queensland lines meet somewhere
near the Star office.... The "oity” of Christ-
churoh, N.Z , has 15,000 people—all rich, virtuous,
and early riserj. There are two teetotallers en-
rolled.... Since the opening of the gold-fields in
Ballarat 1023 tons of gold have been taken out,
worth £220.030,030.
• • *
Sir Charles Dilke has been socially boy-
cotted... Russia has gone 124 million pounds
behind in 14 years Teaoher: “ What’s the plural
of lady?” Boy: “Ladles, sir.” “Right; what’s
the plural of baby ?” “Twins, sir.” Blondin is
out of luck, and, needing money, wants to walk
over Niagara again. The authorities refuse unless
a net be Bpread beneath the rope. Blondln’s agent
demurs—says there would then be “ no money in
it.” Blondin is now 62... Bishop of Peterborough
wants to cut do vn bishops’ and vicars' screws and
give the ciirates a “show.” The other bishops
give him little support. Of suo£ is the kingdom of
Heaven....At a sitting of the Divorce Court.
London, Mr. Justice Butt fined 17 non attending
MARRIED FOR MONEY,
SHE: “DO YOU REALLY LOVE ME, HENRY, DEAR?”
HE: “THUNDER AND LIGHTNIXG! YES! HOW MANY TIMES HAVE I GOT TO TELL
YOU THAT?”
jurymen. They were mostly highly retpectable
men, and their wives had refused to permit them
visiting such a questionable place of entertainment
..Proctor, in lecturing recently the Pyramids,
A SAFETY APPLIANCE.
OBRIEN (from above): “ARE YEZ THERE, DIMPSEY?”
DIMPSEY: "OI AM.”
O'BRIEN: “RAPE YURE GRIP AN THE ROPE TILL 0I GET ME FUT AN THE PLANK
BEYANT!”
said that the pyramid of Ghlzsh was built 5000
years ago and took the labour of 100.000 men for
120 years. Their purpose was for burials and
1 astrological purposes. Astronomy they cared
little about, believing 1 that the planets could be
“ read.” He noted the idiotic prediction of a few
years ago when so many people were taught to
expect the end of the Christian dispensation in
1882 because the ilOQr of the grand gallery waslBB2
inches long. He said:-”The only characteristics
of that year which struck him were that larger
cannons were use! in bombardiog an Egyptian
fort than had ever boon used before, and that
more Eogiish bayonets wore employed in prodding
the Egyptians than had ever been the oase before."
A Lancet writer maintains that ohildren who
habitually go barefoot are almost exempt from
colds. The constant exercise of the uncovered
foot draws large supplies of blood to the extremi-
ties— In the Canadian Pacific railway, now being
built, England will have a splendid alternative
route for troops to India.... The old Duke of Marl-
borough’s favourite goblet has just been auc-
tioned. It holds three pints. No wonder John
Churchill could fight....lf the military force
of all Europe was drawn up in line, the
distance from right to left would be 6000 miles,
as the force world consist of 9.000,030 soldiers....
The world’s supply of gold from 1857 to 1881 was
£550,380 000, of which India imported during that
period £93,570.000. India thus took annually, not
for circulation, but for hoarding and for making
into ornaments (which are as much merchandise
as lead or iron) a sixth of the world’s total gold-
yield. in 1883-81 she consumed £4,750,000, or a
fourth of the whole yield. The gold-coinage of
Germany has from first to last absorbed only
£BO 000,0C0; that of the U. 3., only £33,000,003; that
of Italy, only £30,000,000.... A poor old lady applied
to the Thames (London) Police Court for the price
of a pair of men’s boots; she added she had an
“ eleven ” foot—one newspaper prints it “cloven.”
She stited that she was entitled to £125,000 “ lying
in Chancery.” She got the b00t5..... Spiritualistic
medium: ‘‘You now behold the spirit of Algernon
Snobbins. Do you recognise him?” Visitor: “I
do.” Sp ritualistic medium: “He does not seem
to recognise you.” Visitor: “ Oj, that’s because
I failed in business recently.’’... .The Eagiish na-
tion is growing polite. A murderer was re-
cently hanged in Liverpool, and the matter-
of-fact statement made by a conscientious re-
porter is that, “on acccunt of the unusual
severity of the weather on Tuesday morn-
ing, Thomas was hanged in his overcoat.”....
The London Lancet says many parsons, simply by
deep and rapid iahalationsof pure air, can become
as intoxicated on oxygen as if they had taken a
draught of alcoholic stimulants. Here’s a chance
for the Good Templar who sees a brother off by
the Newcastle boat and then comes home with his
watch dangling, his coat split up the back, and 14
different strata of mud plastered on his trousers
....Tt e richest American railroad man, the riches*
American merohant, and the richest American
planter, all died last year. Not one of the three
died in his bed. One dropped dead at his desk,
another in his hal l , and the other in the street ....
The blaokmailer has his uses, says the P. M.
Gazette. He ia a kind of premature and illegiti-
mate day of judgment “ Where would we bo
without woman?” asks a writer. We would be all
right; but the little pug dog—where would it be?
.... Cora Pearl, the Parisian mondaine of world-
wide notoriety, who has just died, and who knew
more of the pomps and vanities, and the male
crowned heads of this wicked world than any
woman of her time, was a daughter of Mr. Crouch,
the composer of “Kathleen Mavourneen.”.. .Law
is law. The English Lord Chancellor draws from
the state £lO,OOO a year, while Gladstone, who does
the heaviest of the work for 35 millions of people,
receives but half that amount.... Earl Redesdaie
is reported to have left no heir and the title is to
vanish unle-s the inevitable Australian boundary-
rider or bush-cook comes along. Country editors
will please attend to this at once.. .Says Reynolds
“ The British national war debt is £750,000,600. Of
thi' £30,000,000 were paid as interest on the war
debt bonds held by the middle classes A
universal boycott of the Chinese is meditated
in California by the white workmen
More ai istocracy on the stage! Among the com-
pany at Deacon’s Music Hall, London, is Lady
Hinton, who figures as “prem ere danseuse.”..
Mr. Gerald Massey is giving Sunday lectures at St.
George's Hall, London Rev. Talmage says:
"There is only one way ia which you can keep
your children home, and this is by making tho
home more attractive than any other plaoe.” Til's
maybe, but there are some disadvantages in fitting
the front parlour up as a public-house. ...Sir
Charles who hasn’t explained that little
divorce affair at all to the satisfaction of the Wes-
leyan papers, recently presided by invitation at a
meeting held in the Sunday-school room of the
Middle Row Wesleyan chapel. Around the walls
were scrolls, “ Welcome to our Sunday-school,”
and the Scriptural command and promise “Keep
my Commandments and live.” Charles intends to
keep up the latter part of it as long as possibie
Ella Wheeler Wiloox in her new novel modestly
remarks that “ God must be a woman.” History
in public schools. Teaoher: “In the event of a
king dying, who would reign?” Pupil: “The
queen.” Teacher; “And supposing the queen died,
who would reign then? ’ Pupil (whose parents
substitute whist for evening prayers): “On, I
s'pose either the ace, or the Jack, or tho ‘ ten.’ ”
Kemalnsof pious teaoher are swept up andoarried
out on a shovel.... A lady in Q reen Victoria’s ser-
vice, who made the mistake of wearing a cherry
ribbon during a recent term of court morning, has
been deprived of her position for two months....
Osoar Wilde, when in America, disparagingly re-
marked to a Mrs. Pendleton: “America has no
ruins and noted curiosities, you know.” Mrs. P.
retorted: “Tne ruins will come in time, and
as for the curiosities, we import them.”
A memorial to the Speaker of the Commons has
been signed by nearly 100 members (Henniker
isn’t one of ’em) prayiDg that the wearing of
court dres3 at the Speaker’s levies may no longer
be required — A firm of cigar-manufacturers who
have been underselling rivals explain that the
use of cheap tobaeoo in the mouth end of the
cigar is the secret of it all. They claim that the
smoker throws the cigar away before the fire has
reaoned the poor tobacco.... The latest craze in
America is to put the beat carpet on the ceiling,
thus doing away with the offensive injunction,
“Please wipe your boots.”.. .The young and ac-
complished wife of H. H. Champion, tne Socialist,
has died from the effects of anxiety over the trial
of her husband.
Premier ball-room decorators of New
South Wales. Sale and Dare, deoorators. Ball
and banquet rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and Qoral decorations, 60)4 Hunter-street
Sydney.*
“ Do you know, my pretty dear,” he be-
gan. “ Don’t call me your pretty dear,” she re-
torted. “I am entirely too lively to be a pretty
deer, for they belong to the stag-nation, you
know ” He heaved a heavy sigh, and proceeded to
remark that she ought to forgive him, as hi*
pants were not dear, as they were a pair of the
famous sixteen and sixpennies from Summertleld
and Company, merchant tailors, &S 5 and £37 Piit-
street, Sydney. *


Woman Tiems
A Roohester (Eng.) postmistress is oharged
with heavy embezzlement. Her defence is under-
stood to be a novel one. She is a somnambulist,
and says that she has secreted the missing articles
and money in her sleep, and now cannot find
them.
A lady (a perfect lady!) in Perth, W.A,
was reoently charged with throwing stones at her
husband. The lady replied that “it was a family
affair,” and was at once discharged without a stain
upon her character. The rights of women are
beginning to be recognised in Western Australia
at any rate.
“ Two women have fought a duel in
Prance,” says the Evening News. All right. Let
the sweet creatures work off their bad temper
among themselves and then we shan’t all be going
about with scratched faces and a dent in the back
of the head where the teapot took us when we
weren’t looking.
“ Can’t afford to marry ” is a common ex-
cuse, but a young lady of Tumberumba (rumbling
ground) got over that difficulty by forging a £l4
cheque, which the happy man duly invested. The
next difficulty will be harder to get over, and the
honeymoon will be rather eclipsed, as both are
awaiting the S.M.
It is easy to let a lady into a bath, but
terribly hard to get her out again. That at all
events is the oomplaint on the Queensland sea-
board. The devoted parties who keep the keys of
Sydney surburban wash-basins have had the same
iron enter their souls. At Rockhampton, when
the janitor considers a fair allowance of time has
elapied, he puts his mouth to the keyhole and yells
** A man I” If a fellow philosopher will only throw
a brick on the roof at the same time, all his
troubles will be over.
It will stop many a Sydney woman from
running to the Divorce Court when Sir Alfred’s Bill
becomes law, to inform them that Queen Victoria
will never, no never, allow a divorced woman to
appear at Court. Even though the divorced woman
re-marry with all legal pomp and ceremony, the
rule is insisted on. The secret of the Queen’s re-
morselessness in this regard seems to be that her
own mother-in-law —whom, of course, she hated—
was a divorced w Oman. Prince Albert’s mother
was divorced from his father in 1826, and was after-
wards re-married to Count Poelzig.
Cireumstauces alter oases. A certain
Bathurst alderman had a cook of the female per-
suasion. She was a capital servant and seemed to
have been born in a boiler and reared under a
kitchen dresser. A few days ago she “knocked her
mistress silly” by giving notice that she was about
to leave. And, on being asked the why and where-
fore, she replied that as her father had. just been
eleoted an alderman Bhe didn't think it would look
well for her to remain in service. Her father—or
rather her pa—is a butcher. And in all probability
a good butcher and a better oook have been sacri-
ficed in order that the former may enjoy the pri-
vilege of " discoorsing ” on drains and murdering
Her Majesty’s English on every possible occasion.
Thus spake, ex cathedra, Cardinal Mo -ran:
•‘The Catholio church has never yet, and never
shall permit or acknowledge divorce under any
pretext whatever.” Is that so ? If it is, what are
we to think of a par. from the Bone corre-
spondent of the London Times whioh says “The
Pope has granted the divorce of the step-daughter
of Minghetti, the ex-Prime Minister, with Count
Danhoff. The young lady will now marry with
Count Bulow, so well known in London sooiety.
Her mother was Miss Acton, who first married the
Prince Comporealle, and secondly Minghetti.
Fortunately for Mm©. Danhoff, her marriage took
place in a town where the deeree3 of the Council
of Trent have not been promulgated.” The
ohuroh, like the State, has evidently one law for
the rich and another for the poor.
The Melbourne" Lying-in Hospital, on be-
half of which Genevieve Ward organised a per-
formance of “Antigone ” (gratefully remembered
by all who didn’t witness it) has changed its name
High-toned patronesses—who rolled up in dozens
so soon as Lady Loch smiled upon the institution-
found the old title somewhat embarrassing, and
with a nioeness approximating nastiness the com-
mittee re-christened it “ The Women’s Hospital.”
Of course, it never was a men’s hospital—but we
are almost forgetting our point. The Women’s
Hospital bazaar is just now doing the best busi-
ness of any of the Melbourne shows. Raffles,
girls, and art unions (bazaars are rare shops for
Mart unions) are among the leading attractions.
Now we’ve got to it. ” Mr. Stratford Strettle has
presented two merino rams to be disposed of by
art union." Great Scott I If a merino ram is a
Work of art we shall expect to find prize bullooks
figuring in the catalogue at a jewellery sale.
There are, says the Pali/Mall, revelations
enough In the case of Cates v. Maxwell Heron, to
keep one’s moral conscience in a state of oatalepsy
or a week, if one only sees all that they signify
irst of all, as to tho profits of London fashionable
radespeoplo. A dress costing by.the books £Bl to
make,including materials, is charged £210; another,
tmi * £4i 83 ‘ is char g ed £1 70; for taking the
th D a dress, £2l. Second, as to the way
£*in m ° ney of rich Englishwomen Is spent—
the £ITO for two dresses, and £5O for painting
men ram ° f a < - !ourt dress. Third, as to where this
in n!J C ° mes from ’ 4,1 pald M dme, Mercier£l63
from 8 “I 1 at one tlme ” “ The flco 1 g Qt p ar%
lBtMn?u y huBb “nd, but the most of it at Ascot.”
therm, efun °tion of a Court now-a-days ?If so,
of r«v/!i r^ haS a further function also-the making
evolutionists. A fine state of things, when the
Queen is honoured in the West, by the obeisance of
ladies clothed with the proceeds of the racecourse,
and served in the East by sempstresses who pawn
their shawls to buy a Sunday dinner.
Simultaneously with the news of the Chicago
riots, word of an exciting disturbance at Castle-
maine (Vio) reached us. A fascinating amazon,
the Rev. Miss Helen Hart—the “girl-lecturess,” as
she styles herself—(she is a strong-minded female
who wears hand-made curls and was born some-
where about the fall of Babylon; waited on the
editor of the looal Leader with a whip up her
sleeve and resentment in her heart. When the
scribe came forth she asked him in strained and
agitated tones how he dared to, and not receiving
a satisfactory answer forthwith, produced the
cattle-persuader and proceeded to be a mother-in-
law to him. She gave that editor Helen blazes,
but before her hate was thoroughly expended the
ungallant wretch handed her a severe back fall,
completely wrecking a valuable improver. The
“ girl-lecturess ” climbed on to her feet again with
alacrity, and then gracefully withdrew, leaving
the whip as a souvenir. The whip goes to the
editor; it is said that weapons left in newspaper
offices under such circumstances are always con-
sidered editor’s perks.
The Profane City (Q.) Benevolent Societyis
one of the great evidences of advancing civilisa-
tion in the North. The committee consists of
about 10 ladies, four gentlemen, and one old
woman; and its object, as the name implies, is to
pick up fallen sinners, brush the dust off them,
and then hold on to keep them from falling down
again. The business does not always progress
very well, it is true, for the ladies are rather given
to talking all at once, and the chair-female has a
hard time of it; but she does her best, and a n
angel could do no more. Her husband is also a
member of the committee, but he seldom speaks
HARD TO PLEASE.
HE: “AH, THERE, MY DEARI IF I HAD MONEY I WOULD BUY THE WORLD FOR
YOU.”
SHE: “RVEN THEN I WOULD NOT BE HAPPY IF YOU WERE STILL TN IT.”
now, for whenever he gets up to address the
meeting his wife calls him to order, and
He consequently subsides. But as a charitable
organisation the society is a decided succe?s. No
wounded sufferer has to wait long by the wayside
in that town without a good Samaritan and an ass
coming along, though even there th 9 ass generally
comes first—possibly because mules are always
more plentiful than Samaritans. Sometimes the
two are combined, thus proviog that the ancient
fable of the oentaurs was not entirely devoid of
foundation. Even the two-pance is not wanting,
though the aforesaid benevolent society, less
fortunate than the individual mentioned inSorip.
ture, are not able to do their benevolence on
oredlt. Taking it all round, therefore, we can
only regard the institution as a credit to human-
ity, and we give it our best wishes—the only thing
which we can afford, in thesa hard limes, to dis-
pense gratis.
Miss Cleveland, the American president’s
sister, has just revived the famous old controversy
about se (Ucolletant In the following letter:—* 1 The
newspaper statements with regard to * my im-
modest dress and its influence in encouraging a
shocking scarcity of waist and sleeves in other
women's dress,' has been sent me several days,
with accompanying comments, but always anony-
mously, so that I have been unable to reply, had I
deemed an anonymous communication honest
enough to justify an honest response. That has
not always been the case. I approve an evening
dress which shows the neok and arms. I do not
approve of any dress which shows the bust. Be-
tween the neok and bust there is a linB always to
be drawn, and it is as clear to most frivolous society
women as to anatomists. This line need never be
passed, and a fasionable women's low-neck even-
ing dress need never be Immodest. If it is so, it is
because she prefers to be so. It is wholly false, so
far as I have observed, that a shocking scarcity of
waist and sleeves mark the gowns of society
women. This is sadly and painfully true of a few
sooiety women, and it is indeed shocking, nauseat-
ing, revolting, and deserving of the utmost
denunciation on the score of morality, beauty
health, and every other consideration which good
men should conspire to preserve and exact. There
is need of very few words on this subjpot and no
argument. Any American women can wear the
waist of her evening dress up to the lobes of her
ears if she likes. There is no queen to command
her appearance in low corsage. She can also con-
trive her dress that by the exposure of her person
all true social ethics and sesthetics as well are re-
volted. Batween the two there is an appropriate
and beautiful modest mean which all can, if they
will, follow.”
Gentle reader, is your life insured ? On
second thoughts, however, this it a foolish ques-
tion to put, because you really do not know
whether it is or not. In England it has leaked out
that the irrepressible insurance canvasser has
struck ou a new line and does quite a tidy busi-
ness by persuading persons to insure the lives of
others who will have no interest in the policies,
and no knowledge, in many cases, of their exist-
ence. Only the other day a man sought the advice
of one of the London police magistrate?, and made
a comolaint that his beloved wife had insured his
life, unknown to him at the time, for £3OO, and
that shortly after this she kicked him out of bed,
sethis night-shirt on fire, and fervently prayed
that he might be a corpse before morning. He
wanted to know if that was the correct thing for
a loving wife to do. His worship said it wasn’t,
because the wife who would raise her hand to
her husband was unworthy of the name of a Ber-
ritish woman, but, at the same time, however, he
was afraid the insurance business would hold good.
This is a terrible thought, and perhaps it would be
as well, before Sir Alfred's Bill is through, to add
a clause making insurance of this character suffi-
cient justification for a No. 1 divorce. It’s a fear-
ful thing to be mixing up with one’s fellow-crea-
tures in apparent love and friendship, and yet not
be able to say for certain that some of them are
not wishing that their breath was a pestilence to
str ke you dead, so that they could go home and
do the “ Continong ” with your insurance money.
Only last month a policy of Queen Victoria’s was
put up for sale by public auction, and which of us
can say that his or her life is not in the market—
perchance in the pawn-shop even now. Competi-
tion is so great that some companies will take
great risks, and there are many of our dearest
friends who would think no more of takiDg the
chances on our lives than they would in taking a
ticket for a Sheffield Handicap consultation.
OFFICEHOLDERS.
The offloe held by the ki neys Is one of im-
portance. They act as nature’s sluioe-way to carry
off the extra liquids from the system, and with
them the impurities, both those (hat are taken in-
to the stomach and those that arc formed in the
blood. Any clogging or inaction of these organs
is therefore important. Dr. Dell’s Bitters are
nature’s eltioient assistant in keeping the kidneys
in good working order, strengthening them, and
inducing healthy action. If you would get well
and keep well, tak? Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
Most everybody in the colonies has been
indulging in a self-satisfled feeling of pride over
the success of the Indiaa and Colonial Exhibition,
now being held in London; but one of our con-
temporaries bids us no longer remain in what may
be termed a blissful st*t iof ignoranoe Accord-
ing tj it, such adjectives as disorder, ordinary,
distppointing, and many more, might be ix-
changed for the adulatory ones used. Truth is
stated when we say no other establishment in the
colony keeps a more choice or better chosen stock
of China, ulass, and Earthenware, than is to be
found at Bray’s, in George.street, near the Joint
Stock Bank.*
USE
DH. SCOTT’S
Electric Appliances.
a
"THE GERM OF LIFE IS ELECTRICITY.”
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corsets & Belts
AN ENGINEER’S TESTIMONY.
Mr. Robert Moore, engineer of the s.s. Northum-
bria, who holds two certificates of competency,
and has been trading in this port for the past 25
years, sends us the following statement:—“About
seven or eight years ago I sprained my back in lift-
ing an anchor, and from that time until I came to
you for a Belt, I never was well. Excruciating
pains in the back and muscles used to attack me
with alarming p ?rsistency until really I could never
depend on freedom for a single day. Having tried
so many things ineffectually, you cannot wonder
that I purchased your Dr. Scott’s Electric Belt
with considerable misgiving, but I am happy to tell
you that since commencing to wear it I have been
entirely relieved and have not suffered from any
of my old symptoms since. lam now completely
cured, and there are scores of men in the coastal
trade to whom I have recommended it, who, from
personal experience, can speak as highly of it as
myself.
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC CORSET
For
HEALTH, COMFORT, AND BEAUTY.
IMPORTANT TO LADIES.
Mrs. Williams, of Millers-street, St. Leonards,
writes of these admirable curative appliances:
—“I cannot speak too highly of your Dr. Scott’s
Electric Corsets as a natural and scientific means
of relieving pain. For a very long period I suffered
from acute backache-one of the most distressing
complaints of our sex, but I am happy to Inform
you that since wearing your corset (Dr. Scott’s) I
have never once felt a relapse or a return of my old
symptoms. I consider them, indeed, invaluable,
and frankly and earnestly recommend them.
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC BELTS.
ALMOST MAGICAL.
Constable William Stapleton, of the Redfern
Pel* o6 Station, has experienced some of the benefits
of curative electricity in the form of Dr. Scott’s
the only genuine) Electric Belt. I suffered con-
siderably, says Mr. Stapleton, from muscular pains
in the back, caused through exposure and taking
cold in the execution of my duty during a heavy
rainstorm. You cannot imagine the amount of
pain and agony I suffered from this comparatively
trifling matter, and it became so bad that I was
obliged to consult our surgeon and obtain sick
leave. Neither the one or the other availed, how-
ever, and as a last resort I tried your Dr. Scott’s
Electric Belt. The effect was almost magieal. The
pain seemed to leave me instantly, and I have never
felt the slightest inconvenience from It. I have
recommended your Belt to scores of my friends
and amongst others to Mr. F. Cavener, the head
porter of the Railway Station, who used it with
equally successful results upon a child of his I
am well known in the foree, and if my published
recommendation is of any service to you you are
welcome to it.
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC CORSETS.
SPLENDID ARTICLES.
Mrs. Kirk, Bathurst, writes:-” I am highly re-
commending your Electric Corsets. The/ are
really splendid articles.'’ are
BETTER THAN REPRESENTED.
rm. n x-r Brooklyn, June 28,
Dr. Scott,—The Corsets I ordered six months ago
have worn splendidly, and have given satisfaction
every way. They are the best Corset I ever wore
aside from their electric qualities, which are Truly
marvellous. I suffered greatly from rheumatism
baek , and 11 mbs; but your Electric Corsets
presented 6 7 CUred “ e ' They are better than re-
Mrs. J. B. Babson.
RECOMMENDED.
n a, Byron Creek, Richmond Riv^r.
Gent emen,-Your Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset
and Belt came safely to hand. My wife finds very
great comfort through wearing your corset, and
T have not suffered from those paius in my back
that used to worry me so before. I recommend
your goods with earnest oonfidenoe.
Yours faithfully,
T. Lea hey.
MORE RELIEF.
THEY COME AND STILL THEY COME.
St. Joseph’s Convent.
Gentlemen, - Your Eteetri?*
pleased me very much, came duly to hand.
Truly yours,
Sister St. Joseph.
CURED OF DYSPEPSIA.
_ Niles, Mich., January 5 1885
Scott s Electric Corsets have cured’me "of
acute dyspepsia, from which I had suffered for
His Electric Hair Brush cures my
headache every time. y
Mrs. Wm. H. P ak.
WELL WORTH THE MONEY
i" Mr ?.\ CouB^lai h Oootamundra, writes, Februai*-
- 1 received the Electric Corsets safely, ann
tun highly pleased with them. They are wel?
worth the money. I have also much pleaseure i>.
mach^’ that 1 Jike y ° Ur Blectrlc Hair Brush very
These goods are sent out in a handsome box ao-
companied by a silver-plated compass” by which
the Electrio-Magnetic influence can be tested If
you cannot get them in your town, we will send
Snmh & n , d to port ,°r railway static in New
South Wales or Queensland, upon rtoeipt of Drioe
ls ’ 6d ’ added ; or wlll msil direct to
postage™ 88 UP ° n reoeipt of starcp to cover full
The prices are as foliows :
No. 1 Corset
No. 2 Corset
No 8 Corset
No. 5 Corset
Electrio Belts
h. d.
6 6
8 6
10 6
15 0
15 0
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION'
54MARGARET-BTREET, SYDNEY


SOCIALS
On Monday evening, the 17th inst., Mr. and
Mrs. C. J. Roberts, of Chatsworth, Potts Point,
gave a most charming and successful ball. The
guests, who numbered about 300, began to arrive
soon after 9 o’clock. Directly the gates were
entered one could not help being struck with the
beautiful appearance the whole scene presented
by moonlight. Mr. and Mrs. Roberts received
their ivisitors [at the entrance to the ballroom,
which apartment is really a delicious place: large
mirrors are suspended at short distances all round
the wall and reach from the ceiling to the
floor. The room was artistically ornamented with
lovely bouquets of flowers and ferns. The floor
was in perfect condition for dancing, the band
played in exquisite time at d most recherche refresh-
ments were to be obtained during the whole even-
ing. Mrs. Roberts wore a very handsome English
gown, the front composed of cream satin covered
with black Spanish lace, long train of black velvet
low bodice, diamond necklaee;and bracelets; Miss
Roberts, an extremely pretty frook of white satin
and tullei with lovely little white jet birds nestling
wherever they could find a place; two younger
sisters were also in white satin and tulle; Mrs. B.
Barton wore a handsome black net gown relieved
with scarlet; Mrs. Cohen, a stylish dress of white
satin with pearl trimmings; Mrs. J. M. Purves, a
beautiful dress of white moire trimmed with quan-
tities of white jet and clusters of golden-brown
feathers; Mrs. Henry Gullett, a handsome gown
of cream satin, front covered with jetted lace,
panels and facings of canary-coloured velvet, and
a spray of beautiful French flowers, ornamented,
one side, bodice cut deeolletd; Mrs. Charles
Hogg, a becoming gown of black satin and tulle,
trimmed with bunches of golden beads, V-shaped
bodice finished off with velvet; Miss Hogg (Mel-
bourne), an extremely pretty combination of pale
blue satis, white tulle, and silver tinsel, low bodice
with spray of pale pink roses on one side; Mrs.
Salway (Melbourne), cream satin covered with
black l«ce; Miss Wallis, a very pretty white tulle
skirt, V-shaped satin bodice, rich lace of black
velvet with a handsome horse-shoe clasp; Miss Met-
calfe, pink tulle and satin bodice; Miss B. Metcalfe,
pale-blue tulle; Mrs. Frisby, black costume; Mrs.
Carl Fiseher, handsome biack lace and satin dress,
with diamond ornaments. Miss Gilder, blue watered
silk, draped with glass beaded lace; Miss Maclean
looked stylish in a black dress; Mrs. Mair, black
lace over pale-pink satin; Miss Bthei Hill, pale
blue tulle and satin bodice ; Miss Annie Hill,
becoming frock of white'and satin lace; Mrs.
Andrew, blue silk, draped with cream lace: Miss
Backhouse, white dress of tulle aHd satin; Miss
Neil, cream silk skirt and black velvet bodice.
The above are only a few of the very many hand-
some and beautiful costumes which were worn.
Among the number of gentlemen present were
noticed Sir John Robertson, Sir John Hay, Sir
Edward Strickland, the Hon. B. Barton, the Hon.
H. Cohen, Mr. Goodebap, Mr. Purves, Capt. Har-
bord, Mr. Wellington,; Mr. | Harnett, Messrs.
Broadly, Onslow, Field, Hearson.of H M.tS. Nelson,
Capt. Hamilton, H.M.S- Nelson, Mr. Garbett, Mr.
Hogg. Mr. Gullett, Mr. Ogilvy, and many others.
• ■ ■
The bachelors of old Government House,
Parramatta, gave a very enjoyable ball last Mon-
day week. Although most of the rooms of the
old place are large, still they proved insufficient
to comfortably accommodate the large number of
guests invited.
The Ashfleld amateur athletio sports meet-
ing was held at the local recreation ground last
Saturday afternoon. The handsome new stand
was crowded with visitors, who seemed much in-
terested in the races. As yet the turf on the lawn
is rather too bald to make promenading
thereon an item of eDjoyment. The bicycle race
was the most interesting event, and not a little
excitement was shown by the ladies during the
competition for the ladles’ bracelet. Mr. Arthur
Fry met with a nasty accident on his homeward
journey. His bicycle collided with a horse, the
latter showing execrable taste in kioking and
damaging the ankle of a man who was down. The
iDjured man was shown every kindness, however,
by the rider of the horse, who had him conveyed
to his residence with the least possible delay.
* * *
The eldest daughter of Dr. Jefferis was
married last Wednesday week to Mr. Kent, the
organist of the Pitt-street Congregational Church
Amongst the presents to the bridal pair was a
house full of furniture given by the congregation.
Dr. Jefferis, in his lecture on Sunday night, said a
man should never marry until his household fur-
niture was paid for, but he seems to forget that it
doesn’t fall to every man’s lot to have a father-in-
law whose congregation of several hundred strong
are willing to provide the same Lares and Penates.
» • *
r The Woollahra private assembly gave
its second dance of the season last Thursday
night, which was attended by about 80 dancers.
* * *
Another Petersham social was given in the
local lown Hall, last Friday night, and was, as
usual, very ev joy able. Mr. Curnow always suc-
ceeds in making things very pleasant for every-
toody * * * *
SThe "junior pharmacists’ ball,fwhich was
held in‘West’s rooms, last Thursday night, was a
very pleasant affair. Mr. Fowl, the secretary, had
spread himself for this occasion, and was well re-
warded by seeing the result of his labours in the
enjoyment of the 100 dancers who were present.
Baumann catered in his usual style. Shapter’s
band attended, and dancing was kept up till 3 30.
* * *
E"A marriage has been arranged between
Miss Holroyd, daughter of Mr. Justice Holroyd, of
Melbourne, and Mr. O’Hara Wood, of Brisbane.
* * *
The eleventh annual ball of the Sydney
Mercantile Rowing Club will be held in the Town
Hall, on July 32nd.
* * *
On Monday afternoon, the 17th inst., Mrs.
Whitehead and Miss Salamon, of Upper William-
street, gave a most successful yachting party.
Among the guests were Mrs. and Miss S. A. Joseph
Mrs. Madden. Miss Hogg, and Miss B. Stephen,
Lord Capel, Colonel Bingham, and Baron de Tuyll.
Tea and refreshments were provided on board,
and a very enjoyable afternoon was spent.
* ♦ ♦
*The Admiral has issued invitations for
two balls at the Admiralty House, to be given on
25th inst. and the Ist of June.
* * *
The first of the St. Leonards private sub-
scription dances took place at the Masonio Hall,
St. Leonards, on Friday, May 14. About 150 guests
were present, including Admiral Tryon, Mr.
Pakenham, Major Mackenzie. Lieut. Kyngdon,
Mr. C. Rolleston and Mr. Docker. Mrs. Mac-
kenzie wore a handsome dress of cream brocade
and very beautiful lace, the oorsage trimmed in
the Puritan style, and fastened on one side by soft
p*nk roses; Mrs. Wilson’s beautiful costume of
olive-green merveilleux, deml-tram and bodice
over a petticoat of pink silk, which was entirely
covered with .cream lace, the oorsage being
finished with pink plumes, was much admired;
Miss Gore looked pretty in pale-blue net, and her
sister wore white silk and lace. Very becoming
d fosses of cream duchesse lace and satin were
worn by the Misses Hardie. Miss Austin looked
fresh in cream. A very stylish dress was composed
of rich brown brocade over a petticoat of coffee
lace looped up with brown rosettes at intervals.
A beautiful dress worn by a dark young lady was
of cream lace and sprays of red roses. Pink was
not very plentiful, but one tulle dress of tbai
shade deserves mention, as it suited the wearer
well. A ohio costume was of white tulle with
single loops of white satin ribbon. An atrocious
gown was of bright blue silk mixed with bright
maroon satin.
* * *
The Mayoress of Sydney held a reception
at the Town Hall on Thursday afternoon. The
vestibule was tastefully decorated with palms and
ferns and some beautiful dowers. The visitors,
who began to arrive about 3 o’clock, were re-
ceived by Miss Young and her father, the Mayor,
in a most cordial manner. Herr Patek’s band of
16 performers played some brilliant and beautiful
selections during the afternoon, which added con-
siderably to the pleasure of the visitors and the
success of the reception. At intervals in the
music refreshments were served which were
thoroughly appreciated. Miss Young’s costume
of crimson silk plush was generally admired; and
some extremely handsome dresses were worn by
the visitors, plush and velvet having the prefer-
ence. Amongst others, were notioed Mis. Gillies,
whose dress was in accord with her usual good
taste; Mrs. Windeyer, Lady Hay, Miss Mac-
Donald, Miss Gore, Mrs. Carl Fischer, and Mrs.
Andrew. After the reception a number of the
visitors went to an “At Home” at Government
House.
* * m
The captain and officers of H.M.B. Nelson
have issued invitations for an afternoon dance ®n
board for Thursday, 2Jth inst.
* * *
The dance given by the Misses Watt, of
Bynesbury, Woollahra, on Tuesday evening last,
was in every way a success, though the ball room
was inconveniently crowded.
• ■ •
One evening last week Mr. F. L. Sachs,
of Darlinghurst, entertained a few friends at one
of his well-known richerchi little dinner parties,
followed by a theatre-party.
* * *
Mrs. Alexander Campbell gave a moat
successful bail at the Town Hall on Friday even-
ing, the 14th inst., when about 500 guests were
present. The room was most tastefully decorated
with palms and wreaths and the walls draped
with flags and red and blue curtains. A stage was
erected at one end, where Patek's band performed
in brilliant and delightful style. The hostess wore
a beautiful black velvet and satin gown, with
cream lace cap; the Misses Campbell, in white
satin and tulle; Hon. Miss Harbord, black gauze,
white satin stripe, crimson poppies on her arms,
and also worn in .her hair; Mrs. Nott, black
velvet, with cream lace cap ; Miss Annie
ManDiog wore a dress of white satin and
tulle, with pearl pendants ; Mrs. S. A. Joseph,
handsome old gold satin gown, draped with
jetted tulle ; Miss Joseph, in champignon
satin with tablier of handsome beading ; Mrs.
Angus, in red, with red butterflies in her hair;
Miss Hogg (Melbourne), an extremely pretty dress
of sea-blue satin covered with white spotted
tulle; Miss Watt, in a becoming dress of canary
satin and tulle; Miss F. Watt, in white satin and
tulle; Miss Salomons, in white; the Misses Barley,
in perfectly fitting black frocks; Miss Fisken (Mel-
bourne), in cream merveilleuse; Mrs. WiUinson,
in salmon-coloured satin with cream lace cap; Mrs.
West, in a charming white corded silk; Miss Jen-
kins, in white, white wreath and necklace of pink
daisies; Miss Busby, in green net; Mrs. Merrivale,
in pale blue; Mrs. M’Namara, in pale blue silk;
Miss Simpson, very pretty in white, relieved with
pale blue; Miss Windeyer, a becoming dress of
pale pink; Lady Hay, in a black costume, with
cream lace capandpink ribbons; Mrs. Molesworth
Greene, sister of Mrs. Darley, in a black dress
trimmed with white lace; Miss Blanche Moreing,
very pretty white dress; Mrs. Hewly White was
attired in a white gown; Miss White, in steel-grey
satin and tulle.
« * *
The tennis tournament is over at last, and
“ sassiety ” went on Saturday to the grounds
to see the victors and the survivors of the awful
fray obtain their prizes from the hands of our
own “Queen of Beauty”—to quote a now his-
toric phrase. Before proceeding further let us
enter our protest agaicst the hideous dresses
worn by the lady players. With the exception
of Miss B. Metcalfe, who looked really charming
in white serge with blue trimmings, not a ten-
nisee (female for tenniser) was dressed with the
slightest attention to artistic adornment. Surely
a game that gives opportunity for so much grace
and pose of figure must readily lend iteelr to a
style of gown at once suitable and attractive.
Lady Carmgton was dressed in a dark-blue cos-
tume with white horizontal stripes; Hon. Mu a
Harbord, in dark-blue with white spots, a stylish
high black hat; Miss Herbert Lord, a lovely French
?rey costume of cashmere and satin, bonnet and
ur cape to match; Miss Madden (Melbourne) in a
black silk gown trimmed with cardinal satin; Miss
Wrench wore a magnificent seal-skin coat which
completely covered her dress; Miss J. M. Purves
bad on much yellow and blue canvas
costume; a Melbourne lady wore a striking gown
of maroon cashmere trimmed with rows of elec-
trio-blue velvet, bonnet and parasol to match;
Mrs, Charles Hogg in a becoming costume ot
golden-brown plush and canvas cloth, small brown
bonnet; Miss Weaver, dark-green trimmed with
old gold striped satin; Miss Cecil Griffiths, a hand-
some coat of dark-brown, alternate stripes of vel-
vet and satin, with maroon bonnet; the Misses
Watt dressed alike in stylish dark-blue frocks,
high black hats with scarlet bird in front; Mrs.
Kisby, dark-green costume; Miss Gilder, bright
maroon cashmere and satin; Miss Metcalfe, stylish
dress of golden-brown cashmere; Mrs. Robinson,
dark-blue serge dress, braided in the front. The
number of gentlemen present included Judge
Windeyer, Lord Capel, Col. Bingham, Baron de
Tuyll, Captain Terry, Mr. Calvert, and many more
well-known men.
* * m
Many laides present at the reception given
by the Mayoress of Sydney last Thursday must
have partaken of a very early luncheon, for as
soon as ever they could they made straight for the
refreshment-room. Who was the King that “hated
a woman with an appetite?”
* * *
We observe the following in The World
—;“Tho death of the beautiful young Lady
Capel, of [typhoid fever, at Monte Carlo, has oast a
gloom over the neighbourhood of Bristol, where
as Miss Harford, she was very popular. She leaves
two little children, one of whom Is heir presum-
tive to the title of his great grandfather Lord
Essex.”
When the oause of Lady Carington’s ab-
sence became known in Grafton, disappointment
gave place to a little flutter of sympathy and
interest, at least in the breasts of youßg matrons.
* * *
An item for men only. A Melbourne
tailor, the other day, sued George Smith for £5 10s.
for a!suit of clothes supplied. George refused to
pay, and in defence stated that the olothes were
so absurdly out as to be useless. He tried on the
coat in court, and with tears in his eyes pinohed
up a handful of collar showing a cavity beneath,
where you oould stuff a trues of hay. He showed
how the seam down the back made him appe ir to
have a twisted spine, and as for the fit around the
hips, words failed him to express his disgust at
having his shapely pelvis so caricatured. He
argued justly that the human frame divine
was not a olothes-sereen for careless tailors
to practise their diabolical arts on, and
fairly broke down when he appealed to the
magistrates for protection, and asked them to
“only just look at the way the fellow had out the
pockets, and say whether any man of his build and
natural fascination could excite anything but oon-
tempt from the fair sex and derision from bis
own.” The magistrates made Mr. Smith turn
round and round, and deciding that the tailor
must have thought he was rigging up a marlin
spike with a mainsail instead of turning out an
unexceptionable and hitherto irresistible masher,
gave a verdict for George, and made the man of
thread pay £1 Is. expenses. George has now
another coat, and goes forth conquering [and to
conquer.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Dance on board the Nelson, May 20.
Woollahra Private Assembly Sooial May 21.
Glebe Rowing Club Ball, Sydney Town
Hall June d.
It has been proposed in America to endow a Col.
lege for the education of wives for the world—
that is to say, ladies who wish to reside in Paris,
Rome, London, or even St. Petersburg, are to be
specially educated in the language, history, cos-
tumes, and cookery peculiar to the country in
which one intends to marry. And, further t
it is proposed to educate ladies for class mar-
riages—for instance, to become the wives of, say
doctors or of lawyers. The scheme is rather
good, but it would be rather tiresome, to say
the least of it, if a girl fixed upon her own
destiny as, say, a doctor’s wife, and went through
the necessary training for the position, and found
when she was quite ready that there was no doc-
tor forthcoming with a proposal of marriage.
Even if she took the precaution to become en-
gaged to a man of her favourite calling before
going to the trouble and expense of training
at the Wife College, the proverbial “slip between
the cup and the lip ” might occur which would
spoil all her plans.
Of the lunatic notions put forward by
country grovellers for the purpose of testifying
their loyalty, and contributing to the pleasure of
Lord Carington, that of getting up a buck-jump-
ing exhibition "lays over all” for phenomonal
stupidity. At Bathurst, a loyal subject named
Yeomans generously offered to lend a confirmed
“ buoker,” and a still more ardent admirer of vice-
regal greatness name! Paddy Smith offered to ride
him, in order that the cup of his lordship’s happi-
ness might be filled. The confirmed buoker, how-
ever, being of “ dimmyoratic ” tendencies, ob-
jected to being butchered to make a Roman holi-
day, and when the bowld Paddy mounted it was
found that there was no more “ buck ” in the horse
than there is in a dead cow. Tickling his ribs
merely made him sneeze, and when a blaekboy
cunningly<placed a Scotch thistle beneath his tail
the confirmed buoker pioked it out with his teeth,
and then laid down and began to fan himself with
it. Of course his lordship expressed himself as
being highly pleased with the performance, but
neither Paddy nor the blaekboy have ever been
seen to smile since. The Grafton people, how-
ever, went one better still by donating a
£3O buck-jumping prize, to be contested for
at their recent agricultural show. This
fared no better than the Bathurst exhibition.
The men were obliging enough, but the horje
proved to be the most intelligent animal again,
and burst up the business by falling over on his
rider, one M'Covey, who narrowly escaped being
killed. Lord Carington was so thoroughly delighted
with the Grafton performance, that he almost
went down upon his knees to beg the committee
not to do the thing again. How any sane man
who has the slighest acquaintance with horses
could agree to put up a £3O prize for the best
bucker is just a shade more than we can understand.
With proper handling, not more than one out of a
thousand horses will buck, and all that that one
is fit for is shooting. And yet this is the brute for
which the sapient Grafton show committee
offered a £3O prize, while th,e owner of the best,
tractable, saddle or harness horse had to content
himself with a plated pewter pot worth 30s. A
£3O fine inflicted on those who aided and abetted
the buck-jumping performance would suit the
case all over. Unlike the poet, the buck-jumper
is made, not born, and the sooner the “rough
rider,” as the bush horse-breaker is called, is
abolished the better. The people of Grafton
know this as well as we do, but it appears there is
nothing our country cousins will stop at
in their insane desire to coax an approving vice-
regal smile or nod. The next plaoe Lord
Carington visits should organise a cook-flght or a
dog or bull fight in his honour, or, better still,
might start the grand, intellectual old Cali-
fornian game of “ rooster-pulling.” The way it's
played is this: Each competitor, having paid his
entrance-fee. seats himself on a log of wood, with
his feet firmly planted against another log. He is
then handed a rooster, and, placing it head down-
wards between his knees, he seizes the legs of the
unfortunate fowl, and gives them a mighty jerk
upwards with all his force. If he succeeds in pull-
ing the legs of the bird clean from the body he
wins the pool, unless the other competitors are
equally lucky, in whioh case a fresh ooop of
roosters is procured. This, although not quite so
exciting as a buck-jumping exhibition, is far more
humane. The birds make no noise whatever,
being probably too absorbed in the interest of the
game to do so, and, besides, they can be served up
for the Governor’s banquet at night, and thereby
enable the reception committee to oopibine plea-
sure with profit, whereas a buck-jumper is a dead
loss from start to finish.
MARION MELROSE,
ACTRESS,
Died, aged 24.
Dead! and the seat of silence set
Forever on those jocund lips,
Where mirth and music seemed to fret
Wnen bade to cease their truant trips.
Quench’d like a ray from Btar that burns,
His upward course to zenith height;
As placidly he earthward turns
The beam anon cloud-wrapped from sight.
Dead! with the rose leaves in thy hair;
Dead 1 with them trampl’d underneath.
They feel impatient-and despair
When torn by rose-thorns bringeth death.
Goulburn.
s.
Anything you Require from Sydney
FORWARDED AT
COST TRICE.
NO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, forwarded free of all
Cha TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
jgii t. mtm a Ci.,
00 PITT STREET, SIDNEY, N.S.W.
JJRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
ANP
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY :
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
gs
Austrian chairs,
in
Great Variety.
BRADLEY,
NEWTON,
and
LAMB,
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably Up-
holstered, et all prices. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb,
W
Lamb.
ALL CABINETS, for Choioe China, &c,
iVERf ELEGANT. Bradley, Newton, and
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs; also elegantly finished in
Embroidery, Plush, &o. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O'Connell and
Spring streets.
CHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs.
Large choice. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
O’Connell-street.
TVRAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS,-
JLf A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
wr*c
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS,
for camping: out.
A cheap occasional bed.
Light, strong, and handy.
10/6)
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell-street.
BEDSTEADS.— All kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates,
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
dfg
RON SAFES
various sizes.
BRADLEY,
NEWTON,
and LAMB
n«»»tr jrXAJX OJB Ruurttuieeu guuuu
ouOtJ strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, In handsome
Case. Free at rail or wharves for cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb. _
Five pounds fifteen shillings bed-
room SUITES.—The Economic Bedroom
Suite, comprising wardrobe, washstand with towe
rail, dressing table and glass, and two chairs
The lot for £5 15s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB. ___
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods
and very handsome designs, with 7-fett
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
reoms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
T7IULL SUITES for DINING-ROOM-SIDB-
JD BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, aU to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-street.
TWININ'
M 9 sere
~„.G TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
sdf
IC B CHESTS,
all 81268, from 375.
BRADLEY NEWTON, and
LAMB.
Spring and O’Connell Streets.
si
UPRIGHT
IMPROVED
REFRIGERATORS,
various sizes, from 455. “
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
gjiASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in any
material.
SELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and restful,
a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
gs
CANVAS FOLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantial and %ht, suit-
able for shipboard and
the verandah.
BRADLEY, NEWTON*
and LAMB.
0
RAWING-ROOM CABINETS.—EarIy English,
and Chippendale designs.
OVERMANTEL MIRROKS, Handsome Fashion
able designs In Black and Gold, with Sid*
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut Wood, a* all
prices. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Fur-
niture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell sts.
dfg
PATENT SANITARY
SPIRAL SPRING or
ELASTIC WOVEN WIRE
MaTTRASSES.
T *1 ? nd 6 fe «t long. Rustle
JJ Cast-iron Standards, 16b. each. Bradley, New-
ton* and Lamb*
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS. 6xB,
BxB, 9 x 8,10 x 8,12 xB, at low prices Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb. O Connell and Sprf '
JL
\ MEBICAN PATENT
clothes
Each dryer gives 186 feet
of hanging space.
Very Cheap.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
WALNUT TBLEBCOPIO DINING TABLES,
with two flaps, stroagly made, only A 3 10*.


NEW SOUTH WALES
SENDS HER CONTINGENT
Of Volunteers to join the G-reat Army of
Grateful Men and. Women who have
Conquered Disease and Premature
Death with the Timely Aid of
Warner’s “ Sajfe” Remedies.
iiiiiiiil i
1
111 l
Mm
(WILLIAM BEACH.)
Deeble’s Hotel, Sydney, N.S.W.,
2nd March, 1886.
H. H. WARNER & CO.
Gentlemen.—Feeling unwell during
my training for the second contest
with Edward Hanlan, of Toronto, for
the Championship of the World, my
trainer purchased for me WARNER’S
SAFE CURE and SAFE PILLS, and I
was agreeably astonished at the Great
Benefit which followed their use.
Yours Truly and Gratefully,
am
Champion Sculler of the World.
The Dread Bright’s Disease Yields.
62 Dargiiarn Street, Lyxdhurst, Sydney,
10th March, 1886.—“ During the last eight
months of 1883 I was laid off work, being
unable to leave my bed. I suffered the
greatest agony with pains in my scrotum,
down the inside of my thighs, across my back,
up the spine, ending in fearful headaches ;
my water was thick and muddy, I could not
rest in bed, or sit or stand very long in any
position. I tried several doctors, who told
.me I was suffering from a severe form of
Bright’s disease ; one advised me to go to
the hospital, as I could not live more than
a few months, being so far gone, A friend of
mine sent me a cutting from an American
paper wherein I saw a cure for Bright’s
disease. lat once wrote to Mr. Warner in
America, who advised me to get a dozen
•Safe Cure from San Francisco. (The
medicine can now be obtained of any
chemist in Australasia); I did so, and took
ten bottles, and from that time to the
present I have had no pains or trouble-
some symptoms, and feel in every respect a
different man. I have gained thirty-five
pounds in weight, and work hard every day.
The Distressing Diseases of "Women.
Alfred Street, St. Leonards East,
North Shore, Sydney, N.S.W., Bth March,
1886.—“ About three years ago I suffered
greatly from disease of tho Liver and Kidneys,
and without actually suffering much pain, I
nevertheless felt a disinclination and
general unfitness to attend to my house-
hold duties. My symptoms were a dull,
heavy, painful feeling across my back and
loins, between my shoulders, accompanied
with severe headaches. At the time 1
commenced to take Warner’s Safe Cure 1
was suffering from Erysipelas in my foot,
which, however, after taking two bottles of
the Safe Cure, entirely disappeared. I have
now had seven bottles, and feel quite well.”
VILE WHISKY “BITTERS” WILL NEVER CURE KIDNEY DISEASES.
Unequalled, for Brain Workers.
Public School, Waterloo, Sydney, sth
March, 1886.—“ I have been a sufferer nine
or ten years, and during the early part of
.that time tried medicines from several
medical men of the highest reputation in
this colony, but with no permanent result.
I was told by one of the most eminent of
of them, whom I shall always remember with
gratitude for his unsellish advice, that no
medicine then known could cure me,
armthat drugs would only increase the evil
with greater rapidity. I therefore abstained
from their use, and wore as he directed, a
hydropathic bandage and paid strict attention
to diet, eating little animal food so as to
lighten the labour of the kidneys. The
disease, however, gradually increased as
evinced by the fixed dull heavy pain in the
loins, a burden almost unendurable, till my
attention was directed to the hints on diet,
etc., in the pamphlet surrounding a bottle of
Warner’s Safe Cure. These impressed
me so favourably that I decided to try the
medicine, and not without considerable fear
that I should suffer for my temerity. I
hazarded the trial of a bottP, the effects of
which were so satisfactory that I continued
their use till I had taken nearly eight bottles.
I now find myself free from the old too
familiar pain, and other symptoms indicate
a speedy recovery."
Sufferod for Eight Tears. ETo'w Well.
6 Dargiiam Street, Lyndhurst, Glebe,
Sydney, N.S.W.—3rd March, 1886.—“ It is
now more than eight years since I first
became afflicted with Kidney and Liver
complaint, but not until the last two years
have I been obliged to give up work. My
feelings were mostly a feeling of languor,
so great that I cannot express, with dizzi-
ness, and strange kind of mist floating before
my eyes. Being in a “ Lodge,” I had the
benefit of different doctors, but cannot say I
was much improved. Having got one of
Warner’s Safe Cure pamphlets, I studied it
with the result that I tried the medicine, and
can say with every satisfaction. Before I
finished the first bottle I felt I was improving
and have taken in all fourteen. I no longer
suffer pain, languor, or other unpleasant feel-
ings which is entirely due to the Safe
Cure and Safe Pills. My friends say lam
quite another man, and I feel such to be
the case, solely from the use of Warner’s
Safe Cure and Safe Pills.”
Colonial Svnnr Refinin'! Co ,
Pynn'ont, Sydney , A’ S. IF.
Safe Cure Permanently Cures Gravel.
Ermington, Parramatta Biver, Sydney,
N.S.W., 23rd March, 1883. —“For the last
twelve years I have been suffering from pains
in my back, spine and scrotum, down the inside
of my thighs, feeling so languid, and weak as
not to be able to work. I could not turn
over in bed, neither could I lay an hour w i t h o u t
vomiting, which gave me great pain, and
sometimes would pass a quantity of Gravel.
Since taking Warner’s Safe Cure, my pains
have nearly all left me. I can rest well
nights, and feel in good spirits. My urine
is natural, in fact I consider myself on the
road to complete recovery.
■Warner’s Safe Cure for Typhoid Fever.
48 Mount Street,Pyrmont, Sydney, N.S.W.
22nd March, 1886.—“ Having suffered from
Typhoid Fever for seven months, during
which time I had four relapses, it is need-
less to say how prostrated I was. I cannot
let the opportunity pass without letting you
know what a boon Warner’s Safe Cure was
to me, being safe, speedy, and certain. lam
now quite well, and enjoy a cricket match as
much as before my illness.
BEWARE!
Unprincipalled persons jealous of the suc-
cess of WARNER'S SAFE CURE, and utterly
unscrupulous as to the means employed to
compass their selfish ends, advertise in the
public prints that their nostrums will cure
Kidney and Liver Diseases. Such a result
ivas never heard or thought of until it ivas
believed money might be obtained by trading
on the fair name and fame of WARNER’S
SAFE CURE, Any person of intelligence
knows that Vile Whisky Bitters will not, never
has, nor ever can cure diseased Kidneys or
Liver. The raw liquor in these cheap de-
coctions acts as fire on the delicate tissues
of the inflamed and congested organs, and
makes their victim infinitely worse. Yet what
do these human vultures care? Nothing!
It is “your money and your life " with them.
There is but one known specific for Kidney,
Liver, and Urinary diseases, and that is
WARNER'S SAFE CURE. It has been sub-
jected to the most severe tests in three
continents, and incontestibly proved to be all
it is represented by hundreds of thousands
of grateful men and women, As you value
your health, shun all vile worthless Whisky
B ttcrs as you would so much poison.
WAITER'S SAFE REMEDIES
FOR SALE BY ALL CHEMISTS.
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
Her Majesty the Queen,
H.R.H. ih<s Prince of Wales.
H.M. the King of the Netherlands.
mm
»s
|\ V/ ™
H.I.M. the Czar of Russia.
Agents for New South Wales :
TRAPP & ELLES,
54 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
Intending Visitors to the Colonial Exhitition of
1886, should carefully preserve this notice.
“THE WONDER” COACH
Carried 1935 passengers last seasoo. Six horses to
be drivenup Holywell Hill, St. Albans.
Dr.Bumney (of ‘‘RIDGE’S FOOD" fame) is again
running his calebrated six hoise fctage Coach,
“THE WONDER,” between London and bt. Albane,
leaving Hatchett's Hotel, in Piccadilly, London,
every morning at 10 45, returning to Piccadilly at
6.15, p.m.
Ample time is aliowed at St Albans for lunch and
passengers to inspect the CATHVDRaL, which is
one of the FINEST and OLDEST IN TH K WORLD.
The trip is one of the most delightfui that can be
taken, and the price charged for the return fare
is fifteen shillings.
For Time Cards and other Particulars apply to
‘ WONDER ” Coach Office, Hatchett's Hotel, Pic-
cadilly, London, England.
RAW VASELINE.
A
ri*
FOR Softening and Preserving Horses’ Hoofs.
Kills parasites, and prevents their growth.
As a Leather Preservative it is invaluable—pre-
vents it eracking, and renders it waterproof.
From its anti-corrosive qualities, uneqalled as a
metal protector, and for keeping in perfect order
Firearms, Machines, &c. It is the sole material
used for the above purposes in the Austrian and
German armies. Sold by all Saddlers and Store-
keepers.
SOLE AGENTS:
BLACKBURN A CO ,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS’ IRONMONGERS,
12S York-street, Sydney.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, May 18, 1816
TENDER? for PUBLIC WORKS and SUP
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may he in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, If possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will he taken Into consideration un
less the terms of the notice are strictly oompUed
with.
The Government does not bind itself to aooei t
the lowest or any tender.
Uttar* of Works tnfi Supplies
Dates to whlck
Tenders can be
received at
this office
Construction of a 50-ton Iron
f Hopper Barge—Dredge Service
Additions Police BuildiDgs,
Gr.ulburn.
Additions Lighthouse. Po;t Ste-
phens.
Construction of a Bridge over
Bogrce Cre» k on road, Narra-
brl, via M tree to Mungindi
Erection of Statiomnaster’s
House, Ravenswortb, Great
Northern Railway.
Frection of Lockup at Dalton
Erection of Station Buildings,
Cattle yards, &c„ Queanbeyan
Tuesday.
May 35,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Bridge over Bredbo
River, road, Groulburn to
Cooma
Tuesday,
June 1,
at 11 o'clock.
Excavation, &c„ Screen Tank,
Pott’s Hill, Sydney Water
Supply
Supply and Erection of Frame-
work for Screen Tank, Pott’s
Hill, tydney Water Supply
Supply of Fitting's, &c,, Free
Public Library
Erection Stationmaster’s
Residence, ' *ut Maitland
Erection of > aiting-shed on
Down Platforn/, Summer Hill
Tyesday,
i June 8,
at 11 o’clock.
KivetlDg up, &c., 4% miles of
Pipes, and Erection of one
Aqueduot, Syd. Water Supply
Tuesday,
June 15,
at 11 o’clock.
Supply and i.<eilvery in jv e n—
castle of Piprs. i>r w B »er
Supply RetJcul -tien, Hunter
River DiGtriet.
Tuesday.
June ?2,
at 11 o'clock.
Wood Pavement, &c, Circular
Quay
Tuesday,
June 29,
at 11 o'clock.
W. J. LYNB.
IN the face of therapidincreaseinthevalueoflandaro
nndbrisbanewaterandnearapproachoftheopeningo
frailw fourci
aynoti
mesho
uldbel
ostin s
ecu rin
gafree
lioldal
lot m e
ntorm
odel fa
rrn int
his the
gard e
nofne
w sout
h wale
sforitr
equire
sno pr
ophett
oforte
11 that
a s soo
nasth
erailw
ay ope
ns eno
rmous
profits
wilber
ealised
by th
csewh
ohave
sufflci
entfor
esight
tosecu
rel an
dnowt
hatiti
satan
omina
lvalue
and at
nodist
ant da
tethep
ro due
tsof th
isdistr
ictwill
supp 1
ythelo
ngfelt
wanto
A
THRIFTY MAN will
never overlook an op-
portunity of promoting
his personal and family
interests, especially
when a trifiirg invest.
ment will enable him to lay the foun-
dation of a fortune, to be acquired
by judicious expenditure of a few
shillings monthly, and as it is an un-
SURE
doubted fact
that invest-
ment in land in
rising districts
is by far the
most profitable
fund into which infinitesimal pay-
ments can be put to ensure to the
small capitalist the foundation of a
FORTUNE
sure
it
there-
fore
b e -
hoves
all who are desirous of making small
beginnings with the main object of
great results to avail themselves of
the opportunity when it arises, and
without loss of time send for a copy
of the Farmers’ Settlers’ and In-
vestors’ Guide, which will be for-
warded free to any address on
application to Messrs.
BOYD & KING,
AUCTIONEERS,
96 PITT ST,, SYDNEY.
tyofsy
dney a
sthein
disput
able fa
ctstan
ds out
pre do
minan
tthato
neacre
ofgosf
ord ag
ric ult
ui alla
udiseq
ual to
five ac
resint
he cou
nt.vofc
umber
lan d i
h addi
tion to
whi eh
a hold
erliasa
magni
fi)c ent
pro pe
rty n e
arthec
oast a
nd int
he vici
nityof
a harb
ourwh
ichis d
esti ne
d to wit
nesssu
dh see
nesofb
usy lif
eas no
wmar
k thee
very d
ay life
of new
c astle
or syd
ney co
alt i m
bermineralandwateraretherewhatmorecan from the f
oundation of agreatin landandseaportcentre ?boy d andk
i ngauctioneerssydney.
Great eastern condiment company
are prepared to execute any order that
minbt be in lavour of them on most reasonable
terms.
To arrive—l6o Cases INDIAN CONDIMENTS,
consisting of Chutney, in various siz’S, in
well-known brands : Curry Powder, in tins
and bottles; Pickles and Indian Sauces.
Preserves, Jellies, Jams, Fish, and Tamarinds,
Curry anu Mulligatawney Pait?s, Bombay
Duck, &c.
Letters and orders to be addressed to the
manager,
31 and 33 HUNTER STREET.
uM'/mrnJl
lit I lillli'Hlttiiii l ft
A GUARANTEE with
each pipe for real
Meerschaum and
Amber.
Fire-proof Briars. Repairs, &o.
S. SO iENT&AL, Pipemaker,
1 Little Colllns-street, Cast, Melbourne,
Illustrated Catalogues on application,
A WUMUEKFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
kP
PATENT
LLS
PI
pf
■C*
£
sK
$
(§)
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling'
sensations, &c. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no Action, for they have
done it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For femal.es of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few dos'es of them carry oft' all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and‘bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEECHAM’S
PILLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the system. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these
Pills stand unrivalled ; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Beecham’s
Cough Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be
removed.
Ca' tiox.— The public are requested to notice thrb
the words “ Beecham’s Piles, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprieto-, ■T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. IM. and 2s. 9d.
each.—Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.D.—Full directions are given with each box,


±t: ■
% z -■
*a
w.mim
LIMITED,
356 George-streat,
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
PIANOS, OEBANB
and
MUSIC
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EAST TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed.!?
Catalogues & Prioeson Application.
H. H. PALING & Co.
856 Georire-street, Sydney.
The New Furniture and
Carpet Warehouse.
ks, lira Bus,, S Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
AT
Less than English Prices.
EIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
With three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING ROOMS,
At tlia Exceedingly Low Price of £5 15s
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER SUITES,
At Correspondiogly Low Prices.
Furniture for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY.
THE DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING-ROOM.
BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEADS,
in Great Variety.
JONES, LAWSON™ BROB., & CO.
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
D R RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Never Travel Without It-
Wanted in Every House.
m
COCKROACHES.ANp IS
AT THE SAME TIML CU(ft
HARMLESS TO BIRDS DOGS
FOWLS OROTHER^
ANIMALS 3ft Wa
w
V
C.V /C^
A ■
r t^>^VVi
Lv'
UPWARDS
Pbyall chemists;
AND STOREKEEPERS
WHOLESALE
mm
TTTTi
Wanted in Every Souse.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
WoodWorkmg and Saw-Mill Machinery.
H. P. GREGORY and CO.,
Are SOLE AGENTS for
j. A. FAY & CO., CINCINNATI
AND CARR 7 A L ARGE STOCK OF THEIR CELEBRATED MACHINES,
jgr EVERY REQUISITE FOR WOOD WORKING AND SAW-MILLING IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogues and Prises
Offices and Stores : \7 PITT STREET, Circular Quay, Sydney.
YANKEE DOODLE
DOOtyj:
8m&
So^ s
° /j t'.SON&
- ySY q n c
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
M ~annrs& e H fi nau possess the larpest Factory, Manufacture more
EliJlIIOilS Tobacco, and consume more American Leaf
tbanany v f actory hi B ir Koger. Champion. and Dlxaon’a Cut Tobaccos.
c__>
on
UNl«jCft FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguish Wilson’s Ame-
rican “Extra Toast ” BIBCUITB. For
biW'kfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and incomparible
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Stjbsm Btri*t. Bydwit.
Qiticura
5#
.Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
S'/
Scrofula on Neck
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING- HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Bcaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,.
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar;
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath'
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;-
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
1 Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
1 Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
> heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
► stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
> Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
j and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
| mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
, Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
. Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
. arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
[ table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
■ pure by the, Analytical Chemists of the State of
jsacbusefctfl.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 60 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cutiocra Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
JjlOR SALE BY THE UNDERSIGNED.
Japanese green blinds, an sizes
JAVA KAPOK, m small bales.
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS, all descriptions.
AMERICAN CHAIRS of every description-
SILVER PLATED BEDSTEADS, all sizes
BRASS BEDSTEADS and COTS, all sizes,
COTTON FLOCK, in bales, cheap.
WOOLLEN FLOCK, in bales.
CURLED HORSEHAIR and FEATHERS.
CEYLON FIBRE and NEW ZEALAND FLAX.
TOILET GLASSES, in assorted cases.
WOVE WIRE SPRING MATTRESSES.
FURNITURE FRAMES.
HAIR BEATINGS, VELVETS, and TAPESTRIES
UPHOLSTERERS’ TRIMMINGS.
IRON BEDSTEADS, very cheap.
MATTRESSES, PALLIASSES, BOLSTERS, and
PILLOWS.
J. LAWLER, 608, GEORGE STREET,
Faotory—No. 1,3,6, Union-lane. Telephone No. 66.
WILLIAM BULLARD’S GREAT SALE OF
MUSIC, STATIONERY, and FANCY
GOODS. Expiration of Lease, and Condemnation
of Premises. Continued Great Sale of Music,
Stationery Books, Fancy Goods, including the
most extraordinary collection of the choicest
Japanese Works of Arts, Plaques, Bowls, Cloisonni
Vases, &c„ the whole of which must be cleared
out. Discount 25 ner cent, reduction on the old
prices Music.—Thirty shillings worth of nr: sic at
the old prices can now be had for One Found. This
grand stock comprises, amongst other items,
Sheet Music, Songs, Solos, and Duets
Piano Pieces, Solos, and Duets, and all the newest
and most popular Dance Music
Church Music. Anthems, Psalters, Services, &o.
Part Music Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &e
Orchestral and Brass Band aiusic, in variety
Book Music-all the most popular works
BOOKS C( mprise every kina of Literature—Pre-
sentation Volumes, in prose and verse ; Books,
suitable for prizes for boys and girls; Nautical
W'orks, Books on Engineering and Surveying,
Dictionaries, &e ; and a choice library of Reli-
gious works, by wtandard authors.
JAPANESE BRONZES. Wall Hangings. Em-
broideries, Vasee, Plaques, Fans, Ash Trays,
and Tea Trays
PHOTO. ALBUMS in Plush, Morocco, Leather,
and Calf, profusely illustrated, all sizes, at
wonderfully low prices
ACCOUNT BOOKS, Ledgers, Day and Cash Books;
Prets Copying Books in '-very style and bind-
ing, or made to order
LETTER PAPER. Envelopes, the cheapest in
Sydney. Samples and prices may be obtained
on application.
HANDB vGS Purses, Card Cases, Photo. Frame®,
Of every kind and descriDtlen
ARTISTS' MATERIALS-Solid Sketch Blocks.
Drawing Copies, Paint Boxes, Mathematical
Instruments, &o.
Music Catalogues gratis on application.
Goods forwarded on receipt of money order or
postage stamps.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
842 GEORGE STREET.
A Blessing in every Family.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a eountry in the civilised world
whore the healing virtues of these grand medi-
cines have not been recognised by thousand# of
su fferere.
In all the ordinary ailments of humanity tbek
beneficent action is at once recognised.
Fullest directions are supplied for their use in
every disease.
IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London.
|3P“ Purchasers should look to the Label on the
Boxes and Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-
street, London, they are spurious.
Nervous debility cured— l> man-
hood restored without consulting a medical
man. A Medical Treatise by an eminent Fro fa
hospital physician and Parisian special's!, <*■ ntai -
ing a simple and positive self-cure, r t ■ fre
for six penny stamps. Address: HO- if, V u , 0
766, Sydney.
Fills
The Great Liver Remedy.
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
■lightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they osn be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys*
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
lmm ediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
MARSHALL'S
TONIC NERVINE
TRADE MARK—“TONIC NERVINE.”
A BAlTllf CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
rt roufl and General Debility, and all eomplalnta
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
&o. By its tonic and soothing effeots it at onoe
removes all craving for Aloohol. By Its richness
In phosphorous and other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE nour-
ishes and gives vigour te the whole system.
Price, is. 6<L, or !sa. a case- Sold everywhere.
Proprietors, f' ” -JHALL BROTHERS. Registered
Chemists, 104-5 Mark&t-st., Sydney. N.R.—All imi-
tations illegal. TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
MDE. DE NOUYELLEI’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E. Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street: W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge; Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
J. BUTTERFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
Street, Redfern.
Liaa-exi. Grloss
E
EDERAL COFFEE PALACE COMPANY,
LIMITED,
7 Collins-street West.
CAPITAL-100,000 Shares of £1 Each.
30,000 Shares are Still Under Offer,
64,000 having been Taken Up.
TEEMS of PAYMENT as follows:-
On application, Is per Share.
On Allotment (in one month) Is 6d per Bhare.
First Call, 3Dt July, 1886, 2s 6d per Share.
Second Call, 30th October, 1886.2? 6d per Share.
Third Call, 31st January, 1887,2 s 6d per Share.
Further calls, if required, at not lessthan three
months, intervals. If the whole number of shares
be issued, It is not expected that more than 13s 6d
per share will be called up.
A commission of 3d per share will be allowed to
all agents securing applications.
Six per cent, interest will he given upon all
sums paid in advance of the above dates.
JAMES MIRAMB, Secretary.
20th April, 1886.
tar THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED:,
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as fellows:—Sß VEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT.
aDd UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £soin the Savings Bank
launch, Pa j able ou Demand. Oifioes, 4 Park-st.
L V. WAREHAM, Manager.


Bray «£& 3Liolitner,
24 O’Connell-street, Sydney,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK DEALERS.
Complete Photographic Outfits, in great variety, from £3. Catalogues post free.
THE LAUST WORKS ANU PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOBKAPHY.
BOLE AGENTS for BAKER’S DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and RAPID in the Market,
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies.
sdf
The "LOUIS’*
VELVETEEN.
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes an'
Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact
for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
may be used we specially recommend
the “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of “ Louis.”
May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
send patterns
POST FREE OH
application.
v 4
*3S
TS
00
DOTS
T. WILLIAMS & CO.,
IMPORTERS OP
BRITISH & FOREIGN BOOTS 8c SHOES;
Also, Manufacturers of
The finest quality of Goodt in the above lines
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
S3OH
MALTINE.
MALTED BARLEY, WHEAT AND OATS.
The only Extract of Malt containing these three cereals.
One Bottle of Maltine is equal (in digestive power) to from 3 to 5 bottles
of any extract of Malt in the Market.
Digestive value 30 times its own weight.
“ Wheat and Oats are especially rich in muscular ancl fat producing
elements. —Liebeg. ’ ’
Maltine Will increase both the weight a*nd flesTi in most persons of thin habit.
Highly recommended for delicate females, weak and debilitated
children and infants, and for mothers whilst nursing.
Is very pal-atable and will be readily taken by the youngest child.
Maltine is invaluable in cases of Consumption, Wasting Diseases, Nervous
Debility, <fec., Indigestion, Constipation, and convalescence from Illness.
Prescribed and Recommended by all the leading Physicians and used in the largest
Hospitals. Analysed and approved by the most prominent Chemists of Europe.
Maltine with Pepsine and Pancreatine is the best remedy known
for Dyspepsia, Cholera Infantum, and all diseases resulting from imperfect
4 digestion. There are few cases that will not readily yield to this preparation.
Maltine with Hypophosphites is most valuable in cases of Consump-
tion, Rickets, softening of the Bones, and Neuralgia.
Malto Yerbine is the most effective remedy for Bronchitis, Coughs,
Colds, and difficult Expectoration.
Maltine with Cod Liver Oil, an agreeable and effective mode of adminis-
tering Cod Liver Oil.
Maltine with Iron and Quinine, or Iron, Quinine and Strych-
nine a most powerful and nutritive tonic for General Debility, &c.
Maltine with Phosphorus Compound is especially adapted for all
< overworked brains and those of sedentary habits, suffering from General
Lassitude.
Maltine with Alteratives is a remedy of the highest value in all depraved
conditions of the blood, Scrofula, &c.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIMITED, LONDON.
y frr «r fr'?'
(CONCENTRATED BEEF, WHEAT, AND MILK).
Containing 95 per cent, oi nutritious matter. There is nothing to equal
it as a flesh-former, fat and bone producer. Pleasant in odour
andtaste to the most delicate persons.
It is invaluable iu cases of Convalescence from all diseases, Pulmonary
affections, Fevers, Pneumonia, Weak Digestion, Gastritis, and all
Stomach Ailments, Dyspepsia, Diarrhma, Dysentery and all Intestinal
Diseases, Phthisis, Cholera Infantum, Marasmus, Vomiting in Pregnancy,
Sea Sickness, Diabetes, Excessive use of Alcoholic Stimulants, and in
debility: resulting from any cause.
Also a valuable adjunct in voyages and camp life. It will build up the system
after severe prostration.
It contains all of the valuable constituents of Beef, Wheat, and Milk.
Being in the form of a dry powder it will keep in any climate.
A few spoonfuls equal to a hearty meal, and being partially digested,
makes but little demand upon the digestive powers.
It possesses 60 times more nutritive substance than Beef Tea, Mutton
or Chicken Broth made in the ordinary manner.
One Ounce Of Beef Peptonoids contains more nourishment than five
pints of beef tea prepared from eighty ounces of beef.
It contains ten times more nutritive matter than Liebig’s Extract of Beef,
or similar productions.
Prescribed and recommended by all leading Physicians, and used in the
largest hospitals. Analysed and approved by the most eminent chemists in Europe.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
TEE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIM., LONDON.
PAUL LIEBE
UNLIKE OTHERS
DOES NOJ^a
m
pR
Rolchemists
INI0&200Z B 0T s
AGENT
C.A« I »Es,
ROWLANDS' MACASSAR OIL pre-
serves, strengthens, and beautifies the hair : it
contains no iead or mineral Ingredients, and can
now be also had in a golden colour, which is
especially suited for fair or golden-haired children
and persons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a most
cooling, healing, and refreshing wash for the face,
hands and arms, and is perfectly free from any
mineral or metallic admixtures; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &c.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE
produces immediately a perfect change in red or
grey hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a glossy and
permanent brown or black, which colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20 natton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bros.,
E. Prosser & CO., Sydney.
rr\HE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES:
64 PITT-STREET, and 538 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 675,000
This Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED BTATES OP AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
(Established 1860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &c., from the Southern
Colonies or New Zealand, may be made to Arthur
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
GENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES REPAIRED
AND CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Near Market-street.
CONTINUED SUCCESS
or
RILEY BROTHERS'
ORIGINAL
£[ mm BALES!
PACKED In CANVAS, and INSURED against
LOSS.
Carriage paid by mail all over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
The £5 Bale system has been in operation for 12
?ears, during which time we have despatched over
orty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe,
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
£& LADT’S BALE.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
f pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
of good longcloth, and
nicely trimmed. If de-
sired, other articles may
be ordered instead of
any of the above.
£1 MOURNING BALE.
25 yds. Blk. French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 doz. Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
GLOVBS.
On receipt of 3a. In
stamps, we send, post
free, a pair of 2 or 4-
button kid or silk Gloves
any size or colour, good
quality and fashionable.
For accouchements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Robe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of *5.
15s.
We send, carriage free,
a Lady’s New Accouche-
ment Belt for fifteen
shillings, or a pair of best
Nurßing Stays for ten
shillings.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials—Silks, Velvets, &c.—with
Brices, and full instruction for self-measurement,
’ applied to.
KILBY BROTHERS,
165 Oxford Street, Sydney.
Originators of the oelebrated 46 Bales of Drapery
WATCH
TJffi KIDpYg.
They are the most important secretory organs.
Into and through the Kidneys flow the waste fluids of
the body, containing poisonous matter taken out of
the system. If the Kidneys do not act properly this
matter is retained, the whole system becomes dis-
ordered, and the following symptoms will follow :
Headache, Weakness, Pain in the Small of back and
loins, flushes of heat, chills, with disordered stomach
and bowels. You can thoroughly protect the Kidneys
by Dr. Bell’s Bitters, and when any of these symptoms
manifest themselves you can quickly rid yourself of
them by this best of all medicines for the Kidneys—
Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
What is Dyspepsia?
Among the many symptoms of Dyspepsia or Indi-
gestion the most prominent are Variable appetite ;
faint, gnawing feeling at pit of the stomach, with un-
satisfied craving for food ; heartburn, feeling of
weight and wind in the stomach, bad breath, bad
taste in the mouth, low spirits, general prostration,
headache, and constipation. There is no form of
disease more prevalent than dyspepsia, and none so
peculiar to the high-living and rapid-eating Australian
people. Alcohol and tobacco produce Dyspepsia;
also bad air, rapid eating, &c. Dr. Bell’s Bitters will
cure the worst case by regulating the bowels and
toning up the digestive organs. Sold everywhere.
Note.—Any poor Person, or the manager of any
Hospital, Asylum, or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously, upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
BELL’S BITTERS
Manufacturing Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND, & AUSTRALIA.
o
BUTCHER, FEHON & CO., SYDNEY
AGENTS FOB
New South Wales & Queensland.
re only infallible remedy for
XERybi/sJiEBiLiTYf
| HERE are many men In this colony who are,
day by day, melancholy, miserable, and a
burden to themselves, through early indiscretion
or over-indulgence. It is to those that this adver-
tisement is addressed. Impotence drags its victim
in its unhappy train through years of suffering,
rendering bis existence a misery. He sees his
fellow beings hale, hearty, and vigorous—in the
full enjoyment of manhood’s greatest privilege -
and naturally becomes despondent, seeking soli-
tariness, and shunning society generally.
He is lured into trying some of the So-called
Remedies, but without avail, and imagines he
must go down to the grave a hopeless invalid. If
such be your calamity, know that your case can
be relieved and a Cure effected by a simple course
of this Invaluable Medicine, which will, in the
short space of Four Weeks, render you capable
of appreciating and Enloying Life.
This valuable remedy affords relief,and perma-
nently cures all who Buffer from Wasting and
Withering of the Nervous and Muscular Tissues,
Spermatorrhoea, and all Urinary Deposits, which
cause incapacity and degeneracy, total and partial
prostration, ana every other exhaustive derange-
ment of the system-regenerating ail the im-
portant elements of the human frame, and en-
abling man to fulfil his most sacred obligations.
The directions are very simple, and require no
restraint or hindrance from business. Pamphlets
enclosed in each case with testimonials.
In cases at 125., or four quantities in one, for 365.;
if by ooach, 2s. 6d. extra. City aDd suburbs free.
Agents for Sydney ;
Messrs. W. BARCLAY & CO.,
43 Goulburn Strbbt,
One door from George Street, South.
Parcels, packed securely, and free from obser-
vation, sent to any part of the colony on receipt
of Notes, Post Office Order, or Postage Stamps,
with the greatest promptitude.
MOULTON
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MtrOLTON’f
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and m
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cur*
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
Snown, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit)
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price Is. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor
LLS


Ned. Trickett Interviewed.
A Rockhampton correspondent sends us the fol-
lowing: A few days ago I attempted to Interview
the remains of Ned Trlekett, formerly the water
deity of Australia in general, and of New South
Wales in particular. Ned now keeps the Oxford
Arms, in East-street, where he leads a peacefu'
existence among the disembottled spirits of the
past; and thither I went to beard the alligator in
his den (it would spoil the metaphor to call him a
lion, as that animal is not partial to water). Ntd
has the reputation of being exceedingly unap-
proachable, and pressmen are his special detesta-
tion, so I did not anticipate much success, and I
got even lees than I looked for. Blessed are they
who expect nothing for they shall not be disap-
pointed. I found the ex-champion, as usual, in
his bar, where he lounges away the entire day,
making on an average about three remarks per
week; aud I opened our acquaintance with a brief
allusion to drinks. Ned’s response to my invita-
tion was monosyllabic, and consisted of the single
observation, “ H'm.” He did not chance to have
his mouth open at the moment, having, ap-
parently, closed it for the week (this was
on a Thursday morning), and nothiig short
of a great emergency seemed likely to
rouse him up. I ob-
served, too, tbat he con-
fined himself to sherry,
and seemed exceedingly
chary of sampling his own
blue-iuin. Evidently It
was useless to wait until
he turned the tap and let
his eloquence flow of his
own accord, so I opened
my business by asking
him lor a few details of
his own recent career,
and as the immediate re-
sult of my rashness our
nGW-born friendship, ce-
mented by sherry and
sbandy-gafl, was shat-
tered in an instant—
Like a clam on ’he sea
shore when high is the
tide
My host was prepared to
absorb and imbibe;
Like a clam when the tide
is distressingly Jow,
He shut up bis shell aDd
gave way to his wo-.
Ned’s woo was in regard
to things in general and
newspapers in particular,
and his deep rooted ani-
mosity was of a kind that,
if It only had scope for
action, would leave noth-
ing larger than a 3-m
quad to represent the
whole journalistic world
of Australia. He was not
loud or voluble, it is true,
but he was viciously
vindictive, and uttered
strange internal sounds
as if his gastric juices
held oaths in solution and
they were crystallizing
into oxide of blasphemy.
If he could have backed
up against an editor aud
kicked out with both
leet he would have done
it with sincere pleasure.
His grievance was based,
so iar 1 could learn, on
the occasional comments
which have appeared
since his eclipse, and Ned
is half inclined to give up
the hotel business and
spend his old r ge in pro
scouting actions lor libel
against those journals
which mention that he is
no longer champion. I
finished my long shandy,
therefore, and came
awaj, leaving him itill
making observations in
submarine language. 1
have been ill ever since
that interview, but I may
mention that 1 do not
ascribe my Bufferings to
Ned s beer, baviDg drunk
much woise compounds,
especially on one occa-
sion when snowed up in
a central Otago town-
ship and reduced to kero-
sene, afier having drunk
the bar dry. The local
census-taker to whom I
next applied could only
inform me tbat Ned was
an able- bodied male whit?
citizen, aged 35 years,
which facts I already knew. Prom information
gathered elsewhere, however, it is evident the
ex-champion’s career is quite finished. He has run
an hotel ever since his arrival at RockhamptoD, and
at one time made an occasional appearance on the
river, but has long since washed off his war-paint
His last challenge, and probably the laet he will
ever issue, was directed to some of the local oars-
men, Ned offering to pull a four-eared crew on
the Fitzroy, but the event did not come off, and
the once great sculler now never enters a boat.
He has apparently abjured spirits as well as blue
water, and like Mr, Venus, he floats his powerful
mind in tea, and runs his little boste ry in peace,
except when disturbed by his old enemy, the
Press. He baß seemingly become a fixture in this
town, and Rockhampton is certainly a good place
lor a man to grow old in if he wants to do it in a
hurry. It is also eminently suited for a man who
wishes to die, or to go mad, or to write poetry, or
to repent of his pass sins; but at the same time I
would be glad to see Ned Trickett in some more
congenial location, wherohe would find a little
amusement to fill in time till Gabriel comes along
aad blows his clarionet.
The Fxrnrss, the organ of the R. C. heir-
aroby iu.N.S.W,, says a dally newspaper in the
Trish R.C interests is contemplated in Sydney.
“It,” says The Express, “will te run on commercial
lines, but will always be prepared to defend our
holy religion a-, d rbe cause of fatherland whenever
necessary ; and, instead of allowing the garbled
Irish (?) news ins* rted in our dallies to pass as the
true state of matter* in the old land, a full supply
of reliable information will appear from day to
day Already ar-aigemerats are being made for
its early production.”
They know how to make the glory of God
pay in the ffice of the Australasian. Here's a
little remark from a late issue:—“ AH desirous of
aiding in the good work of continuing the publi-
cation of sermons are earnestly requested to for-
ward subs riptions.” This is fair average right-
eousness as the thing passes amongst us no r-aday s.
The Australasian won’t scatter the seed of
saving grace gratis— no, not when there are horse-
races divorce-suits to fill its scintillant
columns; but when the offerings of the good souls,
des'rous of shouldering the gospel-chariot along,
mount high enough, the pious editor gives his
readers half-an-hour of hysteria, from the fiery
Spurgeon mostly, and the recording angel puts it
down to him.
T LONDONERS
\
Wf\ MAP OF THE WORLD.
Another glorious victory! The enemy
defeated with great loss 1 Britain 3 hearts of oak
again triumphantl Nelson, Coliingwood, Drak°,
and Vernon liye again 1 By way of teaching the
impertinent niggers a lesson 25 helpless South Sea
islanders have jus; been killed, and probably twice
as many wounded, by a British man-of-war’s crew.
Why they were butchered is a matter of no con-
sideration whatever. In all probability not one
of these massacred natives had a hand in the
“murder” so bravely avouged, but it seemed de-
sirable to butcher som9ona, and accordingly those
defenceless wretches were shot down just to “ en-
courage tho others.” Leave 8 'gland almc when
there’s any nigger-worryiug to be done, but when
a Boar growls or an JHSigle screams, there’s no
place like the kennel
A Sydney suburban aldermau lias just
pronounced that all this doctors’ scare about the
danger arising from the “floovia” of bad drains
is “mere bosh.” Ho aas lived near one for the
past four years, and ho never had to call a doctor
into his house except on those joyous occasions
when his good lady thought proper to show cause
why assisted emigration should be abolished. This
aldormanio Solomon must be a near relation to the
man who deolared that he was cured of brouohitis
by sleeping in a damp bed in a room with a leaky
roof and two broken window panes; and got rid
of dyspepsia by adopting a liberal diet of curried
lobster, pork chops, orumpets dumplings, and
colonial beer. Yerily, we live and learn—at least,
s ;me of us do, and the rest of ui bluff the lunatic
asylum authorities by becoming aldermen. Syd-
neyites are used to the “civic” argument. “What
do you want baths for ?” asked the old-time
alderman—“ look at me, and I haven’t had a bath
for 20 years I”
The Scottish News, looking at the failure
of the Commercial Bank of 8.A., says that “the
whole of the colonies are rapidly nearing the mar-
gin of very troubled waters.” We presume that
the News has heard of the Commercial’s manager,
the Rev. Crooks, and his excessive piety, so
strangely like that of its own City of Glasgow
Bank directors. By the way, Australia, which
will In another generation be able to buy up Scot-
land, wonders when there will be an inroad into
the Land o’ Cakes of wealth producers. Three-
fourths of Scotland is now owned by a handful of
useless drone 3. Ths total acreage of Scotland is
18.946 694 One single nobleman owns 1,326,000
acres, and his wife 149,879. Another has 431,000
acres, a third 424,000, a fourth 378,000 Twelve pro-
prietors own one quarter of the whole acreage of
the country, 70 proprietors own one half. Nine-
tenths of Scotland belong to 1700 persons. Whilst
on the one hand there are these mammoth pro-
prietors, on the other we are told of crofters who
are starving, and who are evicted from their poor
holdings beciuse they cannot live and pay the
rent whioh is exacted from them. The Scottish
News, before extracting the mote from the Aus-
tralian eye, had better pull the beam out of its
own single optic and start a timber-yard.
ev. Jefforis warns people against cynic-
ism, and s vy <: —“ Young men had to come to him
with the gloomiest accounts religiously of some
of the great shops and warehouses in Sydney.
They say the Christian y >ung men could be
counted by twos and threes es against soorei and
hundreds of others absolutely irreligious.” So
long as the meek and godly youths don’t increase
iu numbers, especially m the banks, things will
perhaps continue to worry along much as they are
now. When tae number of salats in positions of
trust increases we shall have to pay too much for
the gaol vote. But perhaps we do the young men
an injustice. You see wo have just been reading
about Crooks, the pious thief, of Adelaide, also
about Walker, the defaulting secretary of the
Adelaide Young Men’s Christian Association. At
Hobart, in January, this exemplary young Walker
was loud in his denunciations against card and
billiard-playing; and at the same meeting he read
a paper, in which he said that the association
ought to guard young men from evil and vice.
Saint Walker, who, after all, seems to possess a
humorous turn, also urged the local society to
follow the example of the Adelaide Association in
the way it conducted Its business. Ah, yes, we
see Dr. Jefferis is right. Walker was a cynic as
well as a saint. Cynicism ruined him.
The Kapunda Herald, one of the ablest
exponents of the land-nationalisation theory in
Australia, thus puts the advantages of leasing as
against absolute sale of land:—"The selector
should remember that every shilling he pays In
rent is made by the whole c ommunity and goes
into the national exchequer to reduce, and even-
tually abolish, indirect taxation. The true rent of
land—that is, the annual value given to the land
by the general progress, leaving everything else to
the tenant, Is what the State will reserve to Itself;
while under the system of private landlordism,
which is creeping on us here and whioh is the c urse
of older countries, the true rent and whatever in
addition can be screwed out of the helplessness of
the tenant, will be paid to a class of sinecurists
who can live in Idleness and luxury while the
drudges of the country have to bear the brunt of
taxation.”
The following gives
an Interesting- glimpse of
what some people think
of their own responsi-
bility in tendering evi-
dence When Rusden, the
New Z aland 5000 pound-
er historian, was in the
box the counsel examin-
ing said, “Would you be
willing jour book should
go forth to the world
again as it now stands ?”
‘No.” “You admit It
contains gross. - libels
anout Mr. Bryce?” j“ I
admit there are certain
inaccuracies which would
have to be altered.”
" Wh u did you discover
j our statement* were un-
true?' •• Some time ago.”
“ Yet you come into
couit pleading justifica-
tion, and swearing that
the libbls were true in
substance and in fact?”
" I acted under legal ad-
vice”: that is to say, he
had sworn to certain
statements not according
to his own belief, but ac-
cording to what hi s
lawyer s told him. Js there
theu no ch ck on the
gentlemanly Christian
lawyers who persuade
people to commit per-
jury?
A Sydney gentleman
lets us make an extract
from a etter received by
him from a friend at
Collengu 1 e, a small place
south cf Wagga, which
will enable the public to
perceive at once that the
squatter is getting too
wealthy and should be
kicked out of this
country forthwith :
“The country about i 3 in
a really terrible state.
Men who have say 50,000
sheep are watching them
die in hundreds. Fifteen
hundred sheep sold near
Urtna, a few days ago,
brought 2s. 101. a head.
To make matters worse,
this is lambing-time, and
as soon as the lamb starts
to suck the ewe, the pair
are nearly sure to die. It
is horrible to see a ewe
lambing with about 20
crows watching her.
After waiting round a
while the crows aforesaid
hop down and oalmly
pick its eyes out and then
devour as much more of
it as they want. If a sheep
goes to the river, and
while getting a drink gets
bogged in the mud, in one
hour its eyes will be
‘removed’ by orowa. I
could walk along the
Murrumbidgee for one
mile and see 100 dead
sheep.”
Notice!—Keliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Hockings, 143 Pitt-street.
BEWARE!
Unprinoipalled persons, jealous of the sucoess of
Warner’s safe cure, and utterly unscrupulous as
to the means employed to compass their selfish
ends, advertise in the public prints that their
nostrums will cure Kidney and Liver Diseases.
Such a result was never heard or thought of until
it was believed money might be obtained by trad-
ing on the fair name and fame of Warner’s safe
oure. Any person of intelligence knows that Vile
Whisky Bitters will not, never has, nor ever can
cure diseased Kidneys or Liver. The raw liquor
in these cheap decoctions acts as fire on the delicate
tissus of the inflamed and congested organs, and
makes their victim infinitely worse. Yet what do
these human vultures care ? Nothing! It is ‘your
money and your life” with them. There is but
one known specific for Kiduey, L'ver, and Urinary
diseases and that is Warner's safe cure. It has
been subjected to the most severe testa in three
continents, and incontestibly proved to be all it is
represented by hundreds of thousands of grateful
men and women. As you value your health, shun
ail vile worthless Whisky Bitters as you would so
much poison.


MAH
favourite brat*
Arthi?, n he brewing with care from tc
U KB Of the nelehwit.ed firm 0
Sole Agents.
and
. invite inspection
vT°UrHV MAGNIP, CENT STOCK of
L H 4J>E PTh^o d r BOYy “ standard ••
Theft t «AT)e OTHING ' now open FOR THE
C o n G^da
J rt Mey ft j r e e SJJJ from our own sets of pat-
-8 Bu PervißU.n Utl « ully made and llnished
of our home buyer, and,
colL, n<l Workmo 6 SurpaBBed > if equalled, for
Stands. orktn anship by any house in the
p Tw ERD
"oh 45s * 50a ed Faney W C
v— OVERCOATS, extra
Wool or Italian Cloth, 355,
4h'^7 eit «B, ann 'ra 0, & n t Overcoats, in Meltons,
s. 4 J.00j > ana Fancy Worsteds, <27s Od, 35?,
LINED
COVERT
UlO® •
„ OVERCOATS.
SI ’AND S ’ 43a MtaSlLK; .s2s6d: ditto C
SAC SUITS, specially
55? e A ana Wr,i Q , Fancy Mixtures, Scotch
„M? a Worsteds, 33a Cl, 35 i, 435, 455. 50s.
” Two^h forw arded on application.
Twfed Coats, 15s 6d to 25, „
'S HuTroUBei B,’ lo J 6 d, 133~6d, 15j 6d,
Uft G, NEAs L CUT and FINISHED, for
VESTS, in LINEN or PIQUE,
F °^ r! 4U JA " CK:ET,forTBNNISor lounge,
oe »tiS E a L nd w r L t AGb O?SE PANTS, in NAVY
„ sfe’sDreE FLANNEL, 12s 6d
1 ?* Gow ns, in Feit, Celtic and
CJ9?.I Z tS. 3 . 0 ? to 63s
_ COATS, cut extra
Wan"'GUARANTEED THOtt-
r*. C rwi diPttGoF > well ventilated, in
c A 1 sn, °-- 8 ’ Alpacas, Fancy, Tweedf,
ii!>i‘lanr Cttt ic s W 09 m 639 . (lss ’ TO ’
T*feiS M ,SKP “ OOF COiT ' VEKY
Kui 1 IJVI4N * LIGHTEST COAT MADE.
Wfiln Can
Sps 8 h 8a >l 4 GaUo^ r Bid ing and Driving, all sizes
heet8 > Wfttf r 3 to mß tch Coats
ifi* a nd at «rproof Sheeting, Buggy Rugs.
8 JUVENILE CLOTHING.
fc^SßwSaa 0 ' Wiater Wear ’ Btyllstlly
m?,|hl4i 'Tito 8, nice warm Suit, 11s 6d
pj» OF W u tu 7, good Scotch Tweed, 14s 6d
Whiatig’ com P lete wi th Badge, Lan-
made of good Strong Blue
jN,TC] '> m ade of Black and Brown Vel-
Vi H4 .W Y N | N ITTED SUITS, in all sizes
Dolans b OOM SUITS, in pretty Black
so>B> ° v ERCOATS, with and without Capes,
9lh I~ )8 6(i to 21s
B feV’S» T !! SUixs, 21s, 255, and 30s.
f 1 1! Black Silk and Drab Shells, in all
cmn, d ELF.VTr,T 1 iS G latest shades.
FELT HATS.inthefollow-
&t «i anrt Fawna, New Browns,
t OVB HUv?r Navy Biuo
URES3 TRUNKS, all sizes,
and ot,._
PE APES and SHAW,
George-streec.
Sold by SHOE DEALERS, GROCERS and DRUGGISTS.
p ai2 E
MEDALS
ICshPSI
I&oJ
255. «<sonss
BQSTOjsf.
SSJOK.
*hl2S’ H?i :
*') lona
1876.
HAUTHAWAY'S
GLD RELIABLE
Peerless
Gloss.
A necessity in every
family. It blacks and
polishes Ladies’ and
Children’s Boots,
Shoes, Rubbers and
Satchels, without
brushing. Always
gives satisfaction.
Is conceded to be
“THE STANDARD.”
n HAWAY&SONS,
tongress Street, Boston.
MASS., u.a.A.
Kj/ACTURING hatters
e orge street
N ELY:
,
W ESTSHAPES.
l "e
Jkt
c
_ Wallace,
every description of
\j. p * Mercantile ant*
' , 'ON>^ c J' Stationery.
ikr,. ?*** mmltM Irr
Mall.
*■ UlUßua
‘*OKUB ST.. 4M «rna»T
GUINNESS’ EXTRA STOUT.
FIRST
QUALITY.
IIIIFs3!
V
L*ADt MAWS
BASS’ PALE ALE.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES :
W. BALCHIN, JOHNBTON & CO.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-st., Sydney.
80LE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION,
LONDON.
Hy Special Appointment,
m
m
.
fJIHE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER.
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY, EABE,
CONVENIENCE, ECONOMY.
BT THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER saves
labour, stationery, and time, writing much
taster than expert penmen, and condensing matter
to less than one-half the space occupied by peri
writing. Beautiful copies may be taken in the
usual manner in the letter-press. Merchants,
bankers, solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors,
re -orters, and all men of business should use the
type-writer, and save much valuable time.
Bold wholesale and retail by the sole agentSi
IMRAY and CO„
85 Clarence-street.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED by ACT or PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up CapltaL .......4300,00*
Reserve Fund ...4155,000
DraoTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird. Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.O.
C. Rolleeton, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors :
Jaa. Seroggle, Esq. I H. B. Cohen, Esq.
GiinißA.ii Makaoib:
W. A. A. Wilson.
Bk7r*taiit:
Hector Allen.
Bbakohbs ik Nsw South Waim :
Baymarket, Pyrmont, Redfem, Gosford, Nyngran,
Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonards, and
Newcastle.
Bbakoh ik QubiksiiAkd :
Brisbane.
Lokdok Bbakoh : 158 Lcadenhall-street.
Directors :
M ward Chapman, Kaq.
Sir Ban) Bamuel,K.C.M.G
Geo. P. Slade, Haq.
Geo. H. Alexander, Haq.
Managbr : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankbrs:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Plum
oial Agency Business on the most favourable terms
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo.
nd other produce shipped to England for sale.
To Weak, Nerveus Bt,valid* and other*
seeking Health, strength, and energy.
Dr. BICHABDS.JSibSfcI,
DESIRES to inform suff arris, of both sexes
that he has permanently established himself
iu Sydney, and may In future be consulted at his
rooms, No. 7 Bprmg-street, fr«*« of charge, by
sufferers of both sexes from Nervous and Phy-
sical Debility, Exhausted Vitality, Premature
Decay, Paine in tne Back, Head, or Chest, &c. t &c
I CURE EVERY CABE UNDERTAKEN.
When I say I Cure, I do not mean merely stop
them for a time and then have Ih*-m return again;
I mean a radical cure. 1 have made nervous ana
private diseases » life-long study, and can safely
warrant a cure in every case undertaken alter a
personal consultation,
Many persons, from the effects of youthful
imprudence, have brought ab< ut a state of weak-
ness that has reduced tne general system so much
as to induce almost every other disease, and lhe
real cause of this disease scarcely over being
suspected, they have beeu doctored fur every-
thing but ibe light one. Notwithstanding tne
many valuable remedies that medical -dence has
produced for the relief of this class of pa'ient,
none of the ordinary modes of treatment, effect a
cure. During my extensive hospital and piivate
practice in Eugiatd, I have diseovered new at d
concentrated remedies, and with the uae of my
extensive GaivaLio Appiiincrs, I am in a position
to guarantee a cure in every case undertaken.
Consultation costs nothing, and 1 will tell you at
once whatheryour case Is curable or not.
Dr. RICHARDS. M.R.C.S., Eng ,
No. 7 SPRING STREET (cff Pltt-strect North),
Sydney.
D JEt. BOYD,
POMEROY CHAMBERS. 39 CASI’LKREAGH-ST
(Upstairs),
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
Registered Physician of New Bouth Wales.
Office Hours:
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday, Wednesday;
and Saturday Evenings 7 to 9.
Deformitii.s. Nervous, and Female Diseases a
specialty.
Box 120 G.P.O,
gsd
Barry’s Tricoplierous.
Guaranteed to make the
ha r grow on bald heads, to
eradicate scurf and dan-
druff, and remove all im-
purities from the scalp. It
positively prevents the hair
from falling out or turning
gray, and in every case
makes it thick, soft, glossy,
and abundant.
BARRY’S
FLORIDA WATER.
The Original and the Best.
The only perfume in the
world that has received the
endorsement of a Govern-
ment. Put up in three sizes.
Bole Wholesale Agents:
S. Hoffnung and Co.
C. LOUGHNAN,
Importer, Manufacturer, & Wholesale Dealer In
TOBACCOS, CIGARS, CIGARETTES,
And TOBACCONISTS’ GOODS.
The Largest Stock of above in South Sydney to
seleot from.
Manufacturer of tbe undermentioned Registered
Cigarettes “ Lord Carrington,” “ Our Boys,”
‘‘Ail Nations.” “Prince Imperial,” “Our Girls,”
Boston Bride,” and our “ Soudan Boy.”
Tobaccos.—" Boston Navy,” “ Prince Imperial,”
“boudan Navy.”
Sole Agent for
PARNELL’B HOME RULE NAYY TOBACCO
A large supplv received in stock. Each plug a
reasonable week’s supply. Price 6d.
Warehouse and Stores :
639 and 714 GEORGE STREET,
HAY MARKET, SYDNEY.
MIiiREiLAS
STUDY XOONOMT
and
HaveyourUmbrella Frame*
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and mad*
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
Ml George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts
Parasols made to match cos
turn#* Kensira neatly exe
anted j
■b
EVERYBODY 1
SHOULD USB f
FEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IS MADE FBOM THE BEST WHEAT
in * Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
SSI George-street, Sydney.
MUSIC HATH CHARMS, &C.
The only house in Sydney
that makes a Speciality of
Musical Instruments.
Violins. Guitars, BaDjos, Futes, Accordions, Con-
certinas. and Strings for all Instruments.
Musical Instruments of all kinds Repaired.
FOOONOW SKI’S
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT WAREHOUSE,
705 George-strcet, Sydney
. dlHE AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIVESTOCK
X INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital *100,000.
Head Offioe: Melbourne.
Victorian Directors Thomas Learmonth, Esq-
Chairman; John L. Dow. Esq., M.L.A.; J. F
Levien, Esq., M.L.A.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs insured
against death.
Marine Risks accepted on Live Stock (covering
mortality); also on Merchandise and Hulls.
New South Wales Branch : 171 Castlereagh-street.
H. S. BADGERY, Managing Director.
H. M. HAMILTON, Manager.
&s & ,
j? 4
S* A*
k v
r*
VJr Jf' •*
V//
X & XX?’ X ♦\*®'«<
XX?X ~ >r *1?
VVXX "
X
Messrs. S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Agents.
DR. BRIGHT’S PHOSPHODYNE.
The only Reliable Re-uedy for Mental ana Physical
Depression, Nervous. Debility. Incapacity for
Study, Loss of Energy Sick Headache, Indigestion,
Female Complaints, Premature Decline, and la »
marvellous o-edicine for renovating impaired and
broken-down constitutions. It oper-tes on the
system without exciting care or thought un on the
individual a« to the process. It moves the lungs,
liver, b*ra i.kidney stomach, and intestines. with
. harmony, vigour, yet mlidnoas unparalleled in
i, e oi ~, ~orl 11. t i moat poweriul blood pu-ifler
of the uresent .hjiu by all r. homlstn.
Agents—Buiuo’ri Uao»
6. B. HODINI, Cunmaker,
BEGS to announce to hi*, patrons and the public
that he has received, i.y late arrivals, one of
the largest and best selections of
FIREARMB
seen in Sydney. The latest Improvements !In
Breach and Muzzle-loading Guns, Rifles, Revolvers,
&c. Agent ror the following celebrated London
Manutacturers : T. Purdy and Sons, John Rigby
and Co., Joseph Lang and Son, Chas. Osborne and
Co., T. bland and Son ; also, Bussey and Co., who
manufacture' all kilids of Sportsmen’s Require-
ments for the Held. A large assortment of other
celebrated makers’ stook on hand from Webey,
Riley, Scott, &o, and the best Continental and
American makers. A choice and complete stock
of Cutlery. Field and Marine Glasses, and Sports-
men’s Supplifs in general. Rspairs promptly
executed by skillful workmen, and all goods will
be faitnfuily guaranteed at
602 George-st., Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Inspection Invited. Price List on application
COMMERCIAL HOTEL
MITTAGONG.
'
First-class Accommodation for Commercials
PETER MU it piiy. Proprietor.
Good Table and Reasonable Terms.
J. MURPHY’S
Central Lqan and Discount
Offices,
CORNER OF KENT & LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite George-street.
Money Lent at the Lowest Rate of Interest
In this city.
Loans from Is. to £lOOO, at lOd. in the &
per Montn.
Loans on Goldand Silver Jewellery, Clothing, and
every description of Portable Property, granted
at n ates never before attempted in this Colony.
American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murphy’s Central Loan and Dis-
count Offices, corner of Kent and Liverpool streets
opposite George-street.
MEDICINE
Prepared from Pure Drugs and Chemicals by
qualified Chemists in the most scientific manner
to ensure the best action,
FOR NOTHING
is more essential to enable doctors to make quick
cures, therefore we only employ qualified assist-
ants with diplomas in our establishments, and
NEVER MIND
the temptation to employ the cheap labour of
apprentices and unqualified bands. By skill,
science, and
THE CASH
system, we are able to command an extensive
patronage and supply everything of the best
quality at the lowest prices.
T. JONES Se, CO., Dispensing Chemists,
53 Market st., between Pitt and George streets*
Branch Houses Crown-street Tram Terminus.
Surry Hills; and Suva, Fiji.
E P P S’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
MASON BROTHERS
fgs
df
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent Btraat,
Hare always In STodk, for SALS
to the TRADE and WHOLE.
BALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA.
AMD
EARTHBNWA K E,
WINES, BEERS, AJO) SPIRITS,
and (general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and BOV
Old Highland Whisky
J. BORIN and OO.’S
Cognac.
J.T.GA YEN’S
Schnapps and Genera.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Aie.
Dr. t h o
may be consulted on
Debility, Skin and Contagious A fleet lona,
Medical Establishment, 203, Ellzabeth-street
near Bathurst-street.
Hours : 9 till 10. daily.
Dr. Thomas is the only medical man advertlMino-
n Australia who haS passed the degrees of
lish Physician and Burgeon. Examinations SaM«l
—Licentiate of the Koyal College of Physicians.
London, 18«4; Member of the Royal CoTjen-iwul
Surgeons. London, 1869. y College of
M
JV>
Qu^^lcUß£for
rASTHMA,BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
AND ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS


TIIOS. GAUNT
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, and OPTICIAN, I
IA, BOURKR STREET, )
MELBOURNE. J
339 AND 341 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
gsdf
Manufacturer of Turret Clocks, Prize Cups, Optical and Surveying Instruments,
Gaunt’s Special Silver Hunting English Laver Watch, strong dust-proof cases, warranted a most correct ®|
timekeeper. Post free on receipt of P. 0.0. for 6 guineas. A select stock of Gold and Diamond Jei
PRICE LISTS FREE ON APPLICATION.
QUINA LAROCHE.!
FOR GENERAL DEBILITY AND NERVOUSNESS,
FOR INDIGESTION OR EXHAUSTION,
FOR FEVERS AND LOSS OF APPETITE,
OKI!**
ALL CONVALESCENTS,
At all Druggists and CbemlstSo
FRY’S
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
J.
FRYi I & SOXTS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
‘An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter .—Lancet.
J
VMy.
m&xmr/AvM,
m/A
W/&L
sks
m
m
X>H. O CONKFELjIi,
52 Castlereagh Street,
SYDITEY, 3ST.S.W.
A REGULAR GRADUATE in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S.W., whose
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all private cases, c h ron ic,
nervous, skin and special diseases,
DR. O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent by post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed ; where doubt
exists, it is frankly stated. Especial attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence,
producing some of the following effects Ne-
rvousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples on the Pace, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of Pleasure in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Pains in the Back, Stunted Development, &c., are
safe, and Symptom' list free, and by poat. leled succes& * Cures pel '
—in Diseases, Itching, Burning, Scaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptions
of evexy kind,, from whatever cause, promptly cured.
It is self-evident that; a physician paying particular attention to a class of cases attains great skill,
and physicians in regular practice all over the country knowing this, frequently recommend cases to
this oldest office in Australia, where every known appliance is resorted to, and the proved good
remedies of all ages and countries are used. On account of the great number of cases applying tbe
charges are kept low—often lower than is demanded by others. If you secure the skili, and get a
speedy and perfect life cure, that is the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free. Call on or
&ddresa ' DOCTOR J. O CONNELL, ~
52 Castlereaj£li Street (ground vlook), Sydney.
BUDGERE® |
BUDGEREE!
Trade
JSSk
ShU
gsdf
NO MORE FEVER- sllle r|
The BUDGEREE DISINFECTANT is the most wonderful iy Y-f
destroyer known. No household should be without it, as it
smells arising from closets, bad drains, &o. Sold at an pi'
Depot: JAS. C. STEEL, Bulfiatln-lano,
B
OBE R T BUTCHER h 0;0.
(Late William Lon?),
m~ WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
' m GEORGS STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders reoelve prompt attention.
AHHOOPtgj
Ki
lM mM-U
JB**
K. A. CtA
V
)>
EHE highest point of P ~, .
factureof ,
Gentlemen
aving been reached by ?,^ B t o^to^,
repared to supply ° ur r 0 t^ 0 A r
lade of any material! 0 as. t
rinoiple, „ J
nd as we use materials o*. * s igo ge
urability aud good v* lue
A. A. OEBNEf
13 HUNT®® b
syDN^^y*
Manufactory
i.iciffirj * a
R. C. }
r W
and MEN’*
Your patronage reP
255 PI TI
sc
SlTlala DOG ALB.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
T 5
E sparkling, Healthful, refreshing, and thirst-
■ quenching properties of this worid-renowned
hottllng of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter i
and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
ohoioest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
AT.T!L -which is to be obtained of all th« leading
ALE. which __ __
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—KElG WIN
HARBTON, Sole Agents.
and
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS
arrca 6kforb
xpfrighted.
umiACEZ and WHISKAS.
Boyd’e Beard Elixir did thin, and
f unit do 4f either bald head or
bate fate forces heavy Mous-
tache ln fnr*d2 to 4 toeelcn and never .
fail*, 2D .000 young men already
veear full bearde, having wed 1 t
iEFORS AFTER
yqpyrlQkted.
S pkt». tfo injury, eamly applied, eertmfa in offer, ti Fackett I*. 64.
each, 3 for 3a. Hd., post paid. sent under cover, free from observation.
fAddreee, Frank Dvugl**, Sole Agent, Box 730, G.P.0., Sydney,N.B. W‘
COOL ALT A WINES,
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX,
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 Greorge-street
(Beneath Pallng’a.)
B. ROWLARTDS,
LAI’S ROWLANDS Sc LEWIS, **of
Manufacturer of all kinds of Arated Wafers, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Wlo® r
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Caieutia Exhibition awarded the Only Go/o Medal foe /Erated and Mineral Waters; also , another Gold Medal for Liqueurs,
