

The
Bulletin
NEW SERIES
' MmL ,
TKk
mHCik
At 15 per cent, discount off list
prices.
At 25 per cent discount off list
prices.
he Queen The Favorite
°i Q' anoS^«T^ t " f favorites
5‘ v:- . N ' I _ A? ’ \ .- \' .’_
Q. Q .\\ .. > . § : 6
~ \ . sw xv ». , , I,
§§ \ \ | ' - E? x:
‘k {:7 \ \ $4 5» R t . ,. R:
5’ 4"“: R 5 § § ‘ § ' F ‘. :‘-
.V E; g r§ §\ \ § § \r (x as .3 {a
"m “WW \K‘. \ -'{<\<’¥\“\\ M & mum Wm Rx :‘
~‘—___,
3 ‘ ‘
\ a ‘ ~x; \ V. .§ \ \
“33:85
wx
tggé
THE BICCEST SUCCESS
PRESENT™"
GENTUftf
POSSIBLE
CASH PH ,CES
Tiberal Time Payment System
NICHOLSON’S CORNER. GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY. '
Yirri and one-fourth
marked price!
& CO., 325 George Street, Sydney.
o °d'Worki n g and Saw-Mill Machinery.
* 1 ' P. GREGORY and CO.,
' % A Are SOLE AG EN TS for
& CO., CINCINNATI
fiY EIty CAIUIF A LARGE STOCK OF THEIR CELEBRATED MACHINES.
Requisite for wood-working and saw-milling in stock.
gt
Send for Catalogues and Frizes.
ores : 17 PITT STREET, Circular Quay, Sydney.
POKhos * nos*” 4
ISSoa
amu
aiaooa
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
O'M
vS
SET
„ Coltpf toK „
— T c ° .—/
SOlHSfc Surinnif poiisesa the largest Factory, Manufacture-mor»
th« or ., To bacco, and consume more American Leaf
S- f)Ormr& ern hemisphere.
ud lb, conqueror, Sir Rogr«r, Champion, and Dlxson’s Cut Tohaceos.
Bray Liolitner,
24 O’Connell-street, Sydney,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK DEALERS.
■ .7
Complete Photographic Outfits, in great variety, from £3. Catalogues post fr««-
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
SOLS AGENTS for BAKER’S DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and RAPID in the Market.
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied ,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies.
OOTS
T. WILLIAMS & CO.,
IMPORTERS OF
BRITISH & FOREIGN BOOTS & SHOES;
Also, Manufacturers of
Tlie finest quality of Goods in th above lines
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
WOES
hoes


. jNIAL made
PROOF
35
7r
csss
PROOF
$
NETTING!
BRAND.
CHEAPER THAN IMPORTED.
■y MANUFACTURED BT
JOHN LYSAGHT, Limtd.,
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SIDNEY.
SCHWEITZER’S COCOATINA.
Anti-Dyspeptic or Cocoa Chocolate Powder.
GUARANTEED PURE SOLUABLE COCOA OF THE FINEST QUALITY, WITHOUT BUGAR OR
ADMIXTURE.
The Faculty pronounce it the “most nutritious, perfectly digestible beverage for Breakfast
Luncheon, or Supper;” and invaluable for Invslids and Young Children.
Being absolutely “ail Cocoa,” with the excess of fat extracted, is four times the strength of prepara-
tions thickened yet weakened with arrowroot, starch, &c., and in reality cheaper than such
mixtures, a teasp jonful to a breakfast cup costing less than one halfpenny.
COCOATINA is the best Cocoa for India and the Colonies, keeping for years in aU climates, being in
a concentrated form. Made instantaneously with boiling water, and palatable without milk.
Clltiiratetf for remarkable sustaining Properties. Specially adapted for early Break»
fasts. Adopted as a Medical Comfort in the Royal Navy.
Retailed by Chemists , Qrocers, &c., in Air-tight Tins, at Is. 6 d., 35., ss. 6d., &c.
Wholesale by the Sole Proprietors,
SCHWiITZEB & CO., 10 AD&U-BTREQT, STRAND, W.C., LONDON,
AND ALL WHOLESALE HOUSES.
Importer of Wines and Spirits,
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just completed extensive additions
to his WHOLESALE and RETAIL BOTTLE DEPARTMENT, which is now replete with
a well-assorted stock of the Best Brands of Wines and Spirits, personally selected
by the proprietor.
He can therefore confidently recommend the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, hopes to
merit the patronage, which has hitherto been so, liberally extended to him.
ENGLIBH ALES and STOUT, OF ALL BRANDS, Is. EACH PER QUART.
THE FINEBT BRANDS of WHISKIES, BRANDIEB, PORTS, SHERRIES, CLARETS, and CHAM-
PAGNES, at the Lowest Prices obtainable in Sydney.
A trial will convince you. Special Prices for Cases of the above.
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, all returns being
allowed for. I3F~ Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at the Railway
Station of any wharf in the city, or any country station, Free of Charge.
P. R. Larkin wishes to call your attention to his famous £3 Cases, containing the following:
3 Bottles BRANDY 3 Bottles WHISKY 7 Bottles LOWNDES’ RUM
1 Bottle JAMAICA RUM 1 Bottle WOLFB’B SCHNAPPS 1 Bottle OLD TOM
1 Bottle PORT WINE 1 Bottle SHERRYW^NE
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have
Siven perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instanoe. To prevent delay, please make Post Office
irders payable at tho Hay market Post Office.
Kindly Note the Address—
P. R. LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail W/ne & Spirit Merchant 6 Importer ,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL, George and Gipps Streets, Haymarkbt, Sydney.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 776 and 730 George-street, Sydney.
McLEAN BROS. BIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.,
%
o
Co
a
s
IRONMONGERS
512
H/
o
REG 1 ?
Q\or
SPECIALITIES:
Davis’gfiewjng Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint,
A lbo Carbon Light.
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
das Cooking StovesLeonls Fletcher’s, Jeans and Walker’s.
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &C.. &C.
J. MURPHY’S
Central Loan and Discount
Offices,
CORNER OF KENT & LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite George-street.
Money Lent at the Lowest Rate of Interest
In this city.
Loans from Is. to £lOOO, at lOd. in the £
per Month.
Loans on Gold and Silver Jewellery, Clothing, and
every description of Portable Property, granted
at Rates never before attempted in this Colony.
American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged,at J. Murphy’s Central Loan and Dis-
count Offices, corner of Kent and Liverpool streets
opposite George-street.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
MITTAG OH GE
Eirst-class Accommodation for Commercials
PETEK MURPHY, Proprietor.
Good Table find Reasonable Terms.
GUINNESS’ EXTEA BTOUT.
FIRST QUALITY.
11! *' >»
BASB’ PALE ALE.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES :
W. BALCHIN, JOHNSTON & CO.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-st., Sydney.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION,
LONDON,
By Special Appointment.
ÜBS, CHUB, ml ft
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. 0. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
m
MACHIN|BI
Importers of
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-T
RAILWAY AND OTHER CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULT
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, CO,
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES. &c.
MACHINERY^
i
m
mmM
* .
BAR, PLATE, SHEET, and HOOP IRON; GALVANISED CORRUGATED and
SHEET and PERFORATED ZINC : TINPLATES; PIG IRON and LEAD , Y^lJjD^akc^} 1
BRUBHWARF, FENCING WIRE, WOOLPACKS, SHEARING SUPPUES, jg,
MONGERY, ROLLED H GIRDERtf, PORT AULA, ifllm , and SBMI-WXSD SRAjpgl.
and HORIZONTAL BOILERS, STEAM and otbe, PUMPS, IATHIB,-gAgjSad ,V0 V *
SCREWING, and DRILLING MACHINES; STEAM HAMMER#, ENGINEERS
PATENT ROLiiEU SHAFTING, QUICKSILVER. t S t S ;
Sole Agents for PARMER, ROBEY, and BROWN’S CELEBRATED pI jLL
ENGINES ; READING IRON WORKS’ AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS and PAX
WM. TAYLOR and CO.’S Celebrated OILS and PAINTS.
|B“ Price List* and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, &
' “ • : gA T T°2§D BT »E STUEEW
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING
pLAI?i
Head Warehouse -
Iron an I Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London oac«
m GKtACBOHUROH
STAR & GARTER FAMILY ’
No. 104 KING STREET, BYDNEY.
mHIS Hotel is centrally situated, being close to Post and Telegraph B ° d
_B_ Superior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. Pirst-ciao
The most Comfortable and Commodious Private Bar in the city.
THE GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL,
Charlotte-place and Geokge-street.
K. HMIEY’S
1 DOZEN CASE
OF
A.S(3O3RT:e!ID
WINES, SPIRITS, and lALT LIQUORS,
DELIVERED ANY PART OF CITY FREE.
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer.
Order the ldoz. case as you please from the list of
low prices as under, viz. :
Robertson’s Walker or Royal Blend
Scotch Whiskies Is. per bottle.
Dunville’s Shamrock and Burke’s
Best brands Whisky or Brandy
from 20s. per gallon.
£3 CASE ALSO A SPECIALITY.
Marks’s Ale, Porter, and Lager Beer.
Certificate of merit of the first-class and silver medal
awarded at the Calcutta Exhibition, and patronised by bis
Excellency the Governor's household, 6d. per bottle. All
first-class Goods. One trial will prove the fact. Bottle De-
partment of the GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL, Corner
George-street and Charlotte-place. Orders by post solicited.
Mrs. Hanney attends personally on lady patrons.
DR. IiKIttET’S PHOSFHODYNE
The only Reliable Remedy for Mental ana Physical
Depression, Nervous, Debility, Incapacity for
Study, Less of Energy Sick Headache, Indigestion,
Female Complaints, Premature Decline, and is a
marvellous medicine lor renovating impaired and
broken-down conn citations. It operates on the
system without exciting care or thought ud on the
individual an to the process. It moves the rnnge,
liver, hea l.kuiuey stem,-.eh, and intestines, with
a harmony, vigour yet mildness unparalleled in
medicine, andti. 11 most powerful blood purifier
of the present. <s*v Bold by ail chemists.
4 Kr.r.Tnw Rroi
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
ﬁgmzﬂm 2% (2%
t
MACHINERY*
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE
WITH ALL
NEWEST DESIGNS
HIGHEST FINISH
V AT
LOWEST COST
cram* 5
A N ° „
JIICINE’'
l»* N
0*« S ‘
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS
ESTIMATED FOR
J
ROBERT COOPER
SOLE AGE!
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET.
22, KINS STR
rStE.%. be found in «■« "». 0%, f
LIFE,” for the speedy cure of - &(J< A , Qt S 1?
Lost Manhood, Despondency, geft i e d,
this book will be sint post fr *
pecny stamps. Address—
; ■"
IfMEImiL&S
:■>» *■'
0n
s g°*
Ut«S
IsfiV
aniial to $,
gpgs^


THE
BULLETIN
Vol 4—No. 167 New Serial.
SATURDAY, JULY 24, 1886.
ffrloe—6A.
The Coming struggle in England.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JULY 24, 188 G.
Mr. &ladstonh has appealed to the British
Constituencies, and has met with a respor se
that is unsatisfactory because incomplete
and indefinite. Tho verdict of the nation
was raked for, and only the uncertain voice
of a percentage of the national jurors was
vouchsafed in reply. Instead of a decision
there has been a postponement of the point
at issue; the oracle has spoken, but in such
unintelligible terms that the question is still
praotioally without an answer. Prejudice
has muffled the voice of the electors, and
suspicion has imported ax-biguity into the
reply. English prejudices have throughout
modern history been strong enough to
obscure the Irish cause. Interest alone
taught English territorial magnates, whether
Conservatives or Liberals, to regard the
Irish agitator as a disreputable and danger-
ous character. The English landlord hated
Irish Nationalists because the latter had no
consideration for the holders of Irish
estates; to sympathise with the agitator
was to deny the rights of property, and to
assist in the work of overturning the land
monopoly in England. At the present time
the land-owners in the United Kingdom
who fight on the side of Irish patriotism
must be aware that they are preparing the
way for a future and inevitable attack on
their own assumed right to monopolise the
revenue of the estates which they hold. The
question of Home Rule is personal to every
elector of Great Britain. If the Nationalists
ruled Ireland the exact value of title-deeds
would be among the first prints settled, and
a rupture of the land monopoly in that pro-
vince would be the precursor of a similar
rupture throughout the kingdom. Home
.Rule is a question of siil-owner and soil-
filler; of monopolists aod those who are
deprived of their natural inheritance; and
the intelligent English proprietor looks at it
m this light. The English labourer, on the
contrary, Las not yet been educated
to a true knowledge of the meaning
>d certain outoome of the struggle.
au *8 not as a companion in misery
* 'omrade iu arms that be regards the
and a o v ona list, but, confounding the Irish
Irish Nat. ge€ , n witll lhe cause cf which
whom he h. . only vague accounts from
he has heard prejudiced against it, he
eouroes usually common condemnation,
joins the two in a . l() pi m a hateful com-
ifor the Irishman is i — a foreigner, and
petitor for the daily or. . deprive him of
an interloper, who strives contemptible as
the miserable wage which,. wtlo wou id
it is, cannot be extended to a equivalent,
wish to give their labour as its T regar( j B
Instinctively the English labourt ne and
the Irish peasant or mechanic as a u t 0
this animosity is nurtured by Tori*. . a
whom the competition of Irish labour is ,
useful and profitable instrument of oppres-
sion, and to whom also the downfall of
landlordism in Ireland would be an index
of the fate of the English land system from
which they derive their stolen greatness and
their stolen wealth.
Thus it is that Gladstone has received so
little support iu Englaad itself. Speaking
generally, the landlords have opposed him
from a selfish but natural regard for their
own possessions, and the labouring classes
have also to an extent opposed him, on ao-
count of their prejudices, ignoranoe, and the
Tory influence treacherously working upon
these two attributes. The mass of English
voters have, as the great Premier last week
remarked, notyet learnt their lesson. Ireland
was educated under the merciless discipline
of misery ; Scotland “ slowly and painfully ”
underwent the same course of instruction;
Wales has also graduate d; but England is
still untaught. There, the power of
Toryism is grea‘er, beoause of the
ißfluenoe of the established Church which
as an organisation has forsaken its creed
to save its revenues, and pawns the
gospel for glory. There, too, all classes re-
gard the constitution and crown as creations
of their own. The kingdom is called by the
name of their own country ; it is thehenour
of their name that Irish, Welsh, and Scots
fight to maintain. Irishmen regard the
Empire as their oppressor, Scotchmen still
feel something of jealousy, and Welshmen
are only theoretically united to England.
These all look with at least a measure of in-
difference upon the English name and fame,
THE LATE M. JULIEN DECOURT.
but it is not so with the English themselves.
The glory of the Empire is a thing in which
''ey feel that they have a share, and as
L ! es put this Imperial glory at the top of
° T .‘ 'rogramme, it attracts the unreflecting
• t'h ''sistible force. Their attention being
T. 1 i the glitter of this bauble, En-
, , „ . . ve not yet set themselves to
g e question which concerns
understand th .
them most deep.’" J** majority of the
lower classes oppose* Home Buie, as we have
, d not comprehend its
seen, because thev d. . realise
real significance; yet as as they realise
the cause of agitation, the remedy which
Irish Nationalists seek to apT>ly m their own
land will be demanded, perhaps at the
bayonet’s point, by the oppressed multitudes
in m „
Admitting that the "election has not re-
suited as Mr. Gladstone would desire, it
must be still more unsatisfactory to the
Tories and Unionists. There were very
many reasons to justify the hope of a
triumphant Tory victory. Mr. Gladstone
was pledged to a scheme which had already
caused such men as John Bright, Joseph
Chambbrlain, Lord llartington, Goschbn,
and Sir Henrv James to break openly from
their party. On the eve of battle the two
sections of Liberals were bitterly opposed,
and in the actual contest the Union Liberals
acoeded to the hereditary enemy of their
country. Gladstone was attacked by the
Conservatives on his piinciples and his Bill,
his right to lead the Liberals or to grant
Home Rule was challenged by Cham-
berlain and Lord Hartington. The fight
was all along the line, and the result is that
the Unionists have suffered a significant
defeat, while the Tories bear nothing of
the spoils or advantages of viotory. Other
causes besides ths liberal dissensions
favoured the Tories to a very considerable
extent. The fact that they had no defined
Irish policy to defend, was strongly in their
favour. Had the “ twenty years’ of constant
coercion” policy been presented as the al-
ternative to Gladstonian Home Rule, the
utter overthrow of the Tories would have
been an absolute certainty. But this policy
was repudiated by the Marquis of Salis-
bury almost immediately after its promul-
gation by him, and thenceforth his followers
confined themselves to criticism and con-
demnation—always a safe and popular
course—while shrouding their own schemes
in an impenetrable fog of magniloquent
oratory, Toe Tories were also assisted by
the absolute indifference of a very large
seotion of Liberal voters. The Tory-hatched
cablegrams presented to the readers of
the Australian dailies admit that the
polling throughout the kingdom was
very light, and it is certain that Tory
votes were not less carefully recorded
than on former occasions, for all of
that party who were opposed to Home
Rule would work to defeat it, and even
those few who favoured it would probably
vote against their oonvictions on this point,
trusting to their own party to “ dish the
Whigs ” as soon as they acceeded to power.
The abstention from voting must certainly
have been on the Liberal side. Many up-
holders of that faith would probably be
still undecided regarding the policy, if
not opposed to it, and, therefore,
apathetio concerning the issue. Dazed
by the division of their own party,
they would refrain from assisting either
side. So many entirely new points of such
importance as to be of almost revolu-
tionary character are comprised in the
Home Rule Bill that it will yet be some
months before the average English eleotor
fully decides as to the usefulness of the
measure. The abolition of hereditary legis-
lation, decentralisation of administrative
power, and the overthrow of landlordism,
are all provided for in the Gladstonian
scheme of Home Rule. Every English-
man has Conservative instincts, heir-
looms of a baser and more super-
stitious age, which revolt against the
thought of fundamental reform. Even
Tbuth and Rk?k onus’ Newspaper, two typi«-
c&l Radical journals, assert sometimes that
“ Her Majesty has graciously consented ”
to go somewhere, when the .real meaning
is that “ the Queen, after a lot of barney,
reluctantly agreed to send the Tory cause
along ”by doing something. English Radi-
cals are so by persuasion of their reason,
but their instinct has not yet been brought
into subjection, and only by very slow de-
grees will the force of intellect dominate
the ghost of tradition in the matter of Home
Rule; and it is, we may safely presume, be-
cause of the incomplete consideration of
the measure that the Liberals are apathetio.
Their leader has gone too far in advance of
his supports; he halts to call the muster-
roll, and finds that only the fleetest portion
of his following are near enough to answer
to their names. He must wait for the
stragglers to come up, and then his army
will carry all before them. More fortunate
than their opponents, the Toiies had no
schism to rend their ranks; they were
thoroughly united, and had made every pre-
paration for the encounter. The Queen had
been drawn from her obstinate and selfish
retirement and shown to the people, just in
the same way that the relics of some grimy
old saint were shown to the crusading bands
of cut-throats before they were led against
the Saracens; the Prince of Wales was
trotted along with the appropriate banner of
colonial patronage; Battanbesg was sent
out of the kingdom,and appropriate bunkum
was broached on the theme of Imperial
Federation. All these things helped the
party, which also received some astitanee.
from that patronising body of political
bribers, the Primrose League, the members
of which, following the example of the
Duchess of Devonshire, who kissed a butoher
in order to gain a vote for her husband,
have stooped to every speoies of meanness
and cajolery in order to seduce voters from
their Liberal allegiance. Haughty dames
who, until quite recently—that is, up to the
time when Hodge obtained the franchise-
regarded the labourers on the ancestral
estate as worth but little less than the swine
which he feeds, were suddenly moved to an
absorbing interest in their condition, and the
labourers were beguiled accordingly. No pos*


sible means of popularising their cause was
left untriedby the Tories, and circumstances
adventitious and otherwise, werelall in their
favour, yet the party is in a minority, and
oan only govern by aid of the Hartington
set—a body of political janissaries who
would use the bowstring without hesitation
if their demands were not complied with.
If the Unionists and Tories should combine
they would be in a majority of 120, but
there is little ehanoe of prolonged continu-
ance in power for a party so constituted.
Many Unionists who refuse to help Mr.
Gladstone in granting Home Rule to Ire-
land would be still more unwilling to support
the Marquis of Salisbury in a policy of con-
tinued ooeroion.
* # *
Unsatisfactory to the Liberals, and dis-
appointing to the Tories, the appeal to the
country has been nothing short of a disaster
to Hartington and C&amberlain. The
former probably seceded from the Progres-
sive Liberals for the same reason that the
young Jew refused to be a Christian—be-
cause he had too much property to follow
the appeal of his conscience. As the Heir
Apparent to immense estates and a duke-
dom, the maintenance of land-monopoly
must be very dear to him. When, therefore,
this monopoly was distinctly menaced, and
hereditary titles endangered by the Home
Rule Bill, the Marquis allowed the shadow
of his future wealth and rank to obscure
his professed principles, and he showed his
true colours. It would be well if he would
permanently adhere to the Tories whom his
money and rank-weighted soul loves. Eng-
land would then know her enemies.
Now, suoh as he, are simply political pirates,
who sail under the Liberal flag, that they
may escape the destruction whioh would
otherwise come upon them. Millionaire
dukes will never assist the nation to re-
cover the national inheritance. Ambition
probably caused Mr. Chamberlain to break
from his allegiance with the Liberal
leader. He, like Henry V., tried on the
crown while its owner was living. Like that
prince, the act only obtained a severe re-
proof as its reward. Out of 92 followers
whom he took with him to the constituencies,
only 78 have come back. He aspired to the
leadership of the party, but the party in-
dignantly repudiated him. The Birmingham
caucus decided against his ambitious enter-
prise, and the eleotors followed suit. What-
ever his course may be in the future, his
chance of recovering his former prestige
can only depend upon the forgetfulness of
eleotors. He is for the present an unattrac-
tive figure in English politics. The Union
party is too incongruous in its elements to
obey any leader, and incapable even of hold-
ing together for long. Its policy is a mere
negation, and its name an unintended
sarcasm.
* * *
The one great result of the British elec-
tion is the formal adoption of, the Heme
Rule reforms by the Liberal party, and their
utter rejection by the Tories. To the
Liberals this demarcation of party lines will
be of inestimable value. Hitherto Liberalism
has appeared to the masses as a dry, cold
theory, founded upon political principles
whioh were interesting only to the
student; now it is instinct with life,
and abundant in promise of benefit in
action. Similarly the veil is torn from
Toryism, and it is seen to be, not an em-
bodiment of principles, to be discovered in
musty tomes of constitutional law and his-
tory, not a political cree,d of. divine dicta-
tion, but a gospel of man’s invention, propa-
gated to justify oppressipn, to sanctify
pillage and robbery, and to perpetuate need-
less wretchedness and misery. The owner-
ship of the land is the question of Irish
politics; the quarrel has now been imported
into British politics, and the Tories have
sided with the oppressors, while the Liberals
champion the cause of justice. The fight
for Home Rule is only the first skirmish in
the campaign. Toryism, land monopoly,
and oppression, are now clearly seen to be
inseparably united. Against this alliance,
Liberalism will contend, and with the cer-
tainty of achieving an ultimate victory. With
definite objects to accomplish, visible bene-
fits to wiD, and foes, equally familiar and
tyrannous to overthrow, the Liberals will see
that their political faith is not a theory, but a
life-work which brings an enduring and a
material reward. 01 the outcome of the strife
there can be no doubt. We have seen that
the Tories cannot now bold their own, and
every day must strengthen their rivals.
Gladstone’s threat to the Buke of West-
minster of destroying the peerage was no
empty boast. The peerage, lan dlordism,
and olass monopolies must all ultimately go
down, and with the dawn of a juster sociaL
system, men will look back in wonder that
suoh instruments of evil and oppression
ev'uld have endured so long.
The Death Penalty.
te’GtiANin has had a harvest of executions during
the last eig-jit or nine months. As many as five
unfortunate , culprits have been swung into eter-
nity on a sing ie morning. It is not surprising that
the gorge of a considerable portion of the public
Irises at this, i Sir Joseph Pease, member for
Durham, tablei’i accordingly, one night lately, in
the House of C ommons, a motion to abolish the
death penalty. Sixty-two members voted with
him, but the motion, and an amendment on it
almost equally condemnatory of the present prac-
tice, were lost. The result is not discouraging.
The opponents of capital punishment are increas-
ing. Those who think the gallows indispensable
are becoming harder up for plausible arguments.
• * *
The advocates of hanging are forced now to hold
almost wholly by the assertion that capital punish-
ment d6ters from the crimes for which it is in-
flicted. But, as Sir Joseph points out, that asser-
tion was long ago found to be erroneous as regards
many crimes. The Tudors, the Stuarts, and
the House of Brunswick, successively increased
the number of offences punishable with death. In
the reign of Henry VIII., 73 robbers were exe-
cuted. These executions were not followed by a
decrease in this form of crime. If not in this, it
was fair to infer that a decrease could not be
effected by the use of a similar means in other
forms. Such inference was actually drawn, and
crystallised into a principle of antagonism to
capital punishment. Offence after offence was re.
moved from the capital code, until in England
now one remains. The principle that has cut the
list down so far is still at work, land is more
strongly urged by reason and experience to work
on to the end than it was to make a beginning. In
New South Wales it has not made much more
than a beginning. The colonial statute-book has
still about a score of offences for which death
may be inflicted. But there are indications that a
change is near.
• * *
The amendment proposed by Mr. Howard Vin.
cent was to the effect that murder, the one
capital offence on the English Statute-book, should
be divided into three degrees, and that the death
penalty should be inflicted only for one of these.
This, it will be seen, is in intention a forward
move. It limits the punishment of death to cases
in which life has been taken wilfully and of malice
aforethought. There would be something gained,
as there is in some parts of America, if the distinc-
tion were adopted. Under it, “ the Manchester
Martyrs,” as the three Fenians who, in trying to
burst open the lock of a prison-van, shot a ser-
geant of police, are called, would not have been
executed. Under it, had it existed in Australia, the
youth Johns would not have been sentenced to
death for the Wantabadgery outrage. Where
death ensued there should be, before murder in
the capital sense could be substantiated, legal
proof that the prisoner premeditated it. The dis-
tinction is, however, a difficult one to handle.
Sentiment enters into it. That is why so much
uncertainty attaches to the issue of murder-
trials in the United States. Besides, the pub-
lic conscience refuses to accept the definition
If scientifically drawn. In infanticide all the
elements of premeditation are almost always pre-
sent. But the public conscience universally repro-
bates the infliction of the death penalty in such
cases. It is regrettable that Mr. Vincent did not
succeed in having three degrees of murder estab-
lished, for, hard as it is to point to marginal l lines
generally, there are cases in which, under the law
so amended, the hangman would be left with a
holiday.
* * *
Opponents of a change] in the law point to
some countries that, after formally abandoning
capital punishment, are found to have re-intro-
duced it. The reason given for the re-introduction
is that murders increased terribly from the time
the death-penalty was abandoned. If numerous
countries so aoted, and if the reason given be
valid, a serious argument against changing the
present law would be forthcoming. In the debate
in the House of Commons, Wurtemberg and Swit-
zerland are the only places named in this
connection. Certain States in America might,
we believe, be added. But these are not
enough. As regards the American States
there is an ebb and flow of opinion upon the sub-
ject, but statistics previously given by us show
that the abolitionist States as a whole escaped in-
crease of murders. Rhode Island escaped. Wis-
consin escaped. Michigan escaped. Wurtemberg
is a small plaoe, with a population not much
greater than that of New South Wales, and subject
to rapid changes of temperament, which is some-
times difficult to understand. Switzerland, how-
ever, commands attention. It abolished capital
punishment in 1874, and re-enacted it in 1879. It
was by popular acclaim the death-penalty was
brought back. The first thiDg to note is the short
time given to the experiment. Crime is some-
times epidemic. Such quick change in so grave a
matter creates doubt as to whether the abolition
of the law, or its re-enactment, was the conse-
quence of mature deliberation. It may be that
neither was. Switzerland is alive with the
spirit of human progress. It ia one of the
countries that, in the main, helps to drag
sluggish Europe along. It Is a refuge for
the expatriated by other lands. Fiery minds
flock to it. But it pays severe penalties in other
respects. It has an infamous liquor-system, and
is the most drunken country in the world. In
England, two persons out of every thousand die
from drink; in Switzerland, 3’89. Its movements
are plunges. In England, 33’1 per thousand die
violent deaths; in Switzerland, 38’3. In England,
two per thousand obtain divorces; in Switzerland,
5L In England, 67per million commit suicide; in
Switzerland, 303. It is but reasonable then, to re-
fuse to its proceeding of 1879'some of the authority
advocates for the retention of capital punishment
claim for it. But if we be held to it, then we point
to the same term of experiment in Wisconsin,
where murders did not increase; and to twice as
long in Rhode Island, and four times as long in
Michigan, in both of which the murder rate went
down.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Mineral Monopolies in England.
The English Conservative journals have long
since discovered that the only remedy for the
prevailing slackness of trade is a reduction in the
wages of workmen. The existing depression
affects all classes to a greater or less degree, and
is largely attributable to the fact that foreigners
are cutting Englishmen out of colonial and con-
tinental markets, and competing with them in the
mark ts of the United Kingdom Itself. To main-
tain their place in the contest Eaglish producers
must sell at a less rate than they have been ac-
customed to ask, and to effect this reduction Tory
authorities agree that the workmen must accept
the rates which were paid years ago. Capital,
they say, must be rewarded with full rates; labour
must curtail its demands. Less prejudiced minds
will be inclined to enquire why the whole burden
of the reduction [should fall upon the workman
instead of being divided pro rata amoDg those
who share in the price obtained for the product.
The in j ustice of expecting the workman to concede
enough of his wages to induce a revival of trade
may be readily seen from the circumstances of the
iron-produoing industry, now terribly depressed
in consequence of the Importation of continental
iron, which can be sold at 33. a ton less than that
of local manufacture. Of the cost of production
in England, six to ten pence go to the miner, and
six to seven shillings as royalty to the land-owner.
If the miner were to give his services for nothing,
foreign iron would still be 3|. cheaper than Eng-
lish, so that the folly of vaunting reduction of his
wage as a remedy is apparent. It is the mine-
owner who must make concession. He must
largely abate his present enormous charge for that
which he did not make and only claims to mono-
polise by favour of an unjust social system. That
this system is doomed is apparent from the tone
of a recent debate in the House of Commons,
where a motion affirming the need of radical
alteration in the system of mineral monopolies
was strongly supported and only withdrawn upon
promise of a bill dealing with the subject. The
very name of " royalty ” shows it to be a toll pay-
able to the State, and It is so paid all over the
Continent, where its amount in the case of iron is
from sd. to 9d. a ton. If the English iron-trade is
to be revived, these huge monopolies must be
overthrown; they never should have been per-
mitted, and will not be allowed to continue. Their
abolition will be facilitated by the certainty of
their depreciation; manufacturers will only pay
them as long as it is profitable to do so, and as it
is alleged that foreigners must certainly over-run
the home market as long as the present high
royalties are demanded, their depreciation is cer-
tain. A growing Badicalism will not be satisfied
until royalties are paid to the “ sovereign people.”
+
The Freetrade of Frankie
The meeting held last week in Sydney for the
purpose of finding some means of relief for the
existing depression in the iron-trade put the Free-
traders ia an awkward fix, Mr. Franki, an
alleged advocate of Freetrade, demanded Pro-
tection of the most direct kind. He asked that the
Government should " keep such work in the
colony as would give employment to the people in
it.” Anything straighter than this in the way of
Protection it is impossible to imagine. To have
the work done within the colony, Mr. Franki
admits would cost more. Therefore, the
difference between the home and foreign
cost is the amount which taxpayers will
hand over to protect the industry of known
Individuals. This development of Protection
contrasts badly with that effected by ad valorem
duties, for in the latter cases the individuals who
will benefit are usually unknown: the industries
to which encouragement is extended may not be
in existence. But in the present instance, the per-
sons are defined: the establishments to be subsi-
dised may be catalogued. Mr. Franki asks that
the community should pay to him and the ether
petitioners certain sums of money, that their dis-*
tress may be relieved. No consistent Freetrader
oould afford any encouragement whatever to such
a demand, for his creed asserts that men and
States should buy in the cheapest market wherever
that may be found. To eonoede or support Mr.
Franki’s request would be to deny the Free-
trade faith. Yet Sir Henry Parkes, and the
Yellow Pup which has lately raised such a howl
against 5 per cent, ad valorem duties, were there;
Mr. Abigail was there, se was J. Bi Nelld, who
wagged a meroiless jaw for nine hours to show
the] iniquity of a very mild dose of; Protection:
and most of those who disgraced themselves in the
stonewalling of the previous week were there
extending support to the demands of Mr. Franki.
( Their presence gives rise to ouriou9 reflections.
Are they, one may wonder, incapable of discern-
ing Protection under the present guise ? Or, on
the other hand, are [they all Protectionists who
vStonewalled ad valorem duties simply from
Orange bigotry? Was Freetrade with them
merely a convenient stick with which to
beat the Green Dog of their •" religious ”
delirium tremens ? And the Daily Telegraph
ialso advocates Protection of Franki; it admits
[that “the ironworkers of Sydney may have a
[special claim for consideration.” Therefore it
supports this special claim and tries to “sneak in
[Protection” under the guise of “special claims”
when for weeks it has howled against all and sun-
dry who would seek to pervert the alleged settled
policy of the country. Last week we told
the D.T. that there was no universal principle
involved in . the much-debated question of
fiscal policy. The D.T. apparently has profited
by that instruction, and now regards the question
as one of opportunism. But when so doiDg it
ought also to declare its conversion, and not try to
“ sneak in Protection” while pretending to adhere
to a universal principle of absolute Freetrade.
The Bulletin, having always supported Protec-
tion, is able to consistently advocate its applica-
tion to the present case. It is better that 10 per
cent* extra should be paid by the Government for
ironwork than [that the willing workers should
starve and the industries be crushed. But we
could wish that Mr. Franki and his men would
announce themselves as Protectionists; and could
also wish them a fuller knowledge of the political
dodges of such men as Abigail, Garrard, and
Neild, who hunt with the hounds of Freetrade
and run with the Protectionist hare. Consistent
advocacy of Protection cannot be expeoted from
men who are only consistent Orangemen.
Meanness In Excelsis.
We thought the political feats of legislators in
Sydney since the now celebrated Arab-killing ex-
pedition to the Soudan had demonstrated the
very furthest point which it was possible for even
political meanness to deseend. Victoria, however,
has furnished an instance whioh makes us forget
our captured goat and (urn our thoughts away
from the littlenesses of New South Wales to con -
template with scientific Interest the still mor
mioroscopic doings of the Government which
owns Duncan Gillies for its chief. The Govern-
ment of Victoria was lately defendant in a law
case inwhioh a poor devil, run out of the Civil
Service for asking to he allowed to do something
for his salary, sought the opinion of the Supreme
Court upon a disputed clause of one of the
latest pieces of scissors and paste manufac-
ture known as an Act of Parliament. The
Court gave judgment by a majority in
favour of Brownh, declaring that the Public
Service Commissioners—who seem to have been
created for the purpose of breeding discontent in
offiolal ranks—had no power to dispense with the
officer, he being one of those previously in the
Civil Service whose rights (precluding dismissal
except for miseonduct) were specially served by a
clause of Mr. Service’s Act. Browne had a
notion that he would shine in one branch of his
department, where his superior would not have
him. He also felt that he was utterly useless in
another position into whioh he was stowed
away like lumber; and, in a weak moment,
sought the "powerful” aid of a member
of Parliament. Hence the events which fol-
lowed. But we don’t fancy that, in their most
despondent ponderings on the cupsedness of the
human family, either Browne or the Australian
public, for one moment conceived it probable that
the triumphant but poor clerk would be compelled
by a rich Government to go to the Privy Coun-
cil, in order to force them to obey the law as in-
terpreted by the Supreme Court. We are told
that it is the unexpected that happens; and this un-
expected thing for Browne would have happened
assuredly had not the colleagues of the gentleman
who introduced copper gratuities into Echuoa
found it necessary to get the consent of the
Supreme Court to the prosecution of the appeal •
The Supreme Court did not allow the expensive
proceeding, and hence the Victorian Executive
has been saved by the narrowest of chances from
posing as the champion mean Government of the
Southern Hemisphere. The Victorians should
pray for a law that whenever a Government seeks
to make a clerk insolvent by dragging him into an
expensive appeal Ministers should personally bear
the costs. Such a provision, if it could be added
to the Statute-book, would slake for ever and ever
the thirst for appeals in suits of this description
to the Privy Counoil.
—4 ——
The British Elections.
Tiie oomplete returns of the recent election in the
United Kingdom are sadly significant. Leaving
that nondescript body, the Unionists, out of the
question (for they, although unwilling to go with
Gladstone and Home Buie, would certainly not
go with Salisbury and coercion), the English
constituencies by 383 to 135, declared themselves
favourable to the Conservative government of
Ireland by coercion. The other provinces —Scot*
! and, Wales, and Ireland—on the contrary, de-
cided in Gladstone’s favour by 118 to 33. Scot-
land and Wales alone, by 65 to 16, have demanded
that the chains shall be struck off, and Ire-
land made free, but the Conservative Eng-
lish decide to make the burden heavier
and the yoke more grievous. ItesiStanoe of
just demands, constitutionally urged, Inevitably
leads toidisoontent, culminating in rebellion, if the
demand be still unanswered. Opposition by the
Lords to the Beform Bill was sullenly withdrawn
only when the nation was on the threshold of
revolution. So it will be if continued resistance
is made to the concession of autonomy to Ireland.
England now has to deal not with that provinoe
alone, but with Scotland and Wales as well. And
finality to agitation can only be secured in one
way—by full concession. The demand for Home
Buie would have 'been stifled years ago if the
demand had not been just and reasonable, and it
cannot be stifled now. The voice of discontent
can only be silenced by removing the body from
which it issues. To attempt to control it will only
make the voice assume a higher tone. It speaks
now in the accents of law and order; it may, if met
by brute force, speak hereafter in the fleroeness
of disastrous anger.
NOTICE.
Thh Rates oe Subscription to " The bulletin
are as follows
One year 2ty-inadvan66
Half year 12/6 * „
Quarter.. .. ... .. 6/6 „
Cheques, Drafts, and P.O. Orders, must b 6 fnadd
; payable to J. M. HARDING, Managing’ Director
i to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
Postage-stamps of any Australian colony ac-
cepted for amounts under £l.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
The Bueletin will attend to all communications
of whatever character from near or distant cor-
respondents. The aim of the paper is to briDg to
light the good things of all sorts.
The'Editor will gladly consider suggestions for
illustrations, and will oarefuliy read, and acknow
ledge in the correspondence column, all contribu-
tions submitted—whether in the form of political
social, or other articies, verse, short tales or
sketches,, paragraphs, letters, or newspaper-clip-
pings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
Correspondents will please write on one side of
their paper only, and in forwarding newspapers,
will be good enough to mark the portions to which
they invite attention.
The Bulletin does not necessarily undertake any
liability in respect to MS., &c., forwarded. But the
Editor will, as a matter of courtesy, send back all
unsuitable contributions which are in the first
plaee accompanied by a properly-addressed and
stamped envelope.
The Bulletin will be glad to publish properly-
au-thenticated social items.
. * H ®P alls himself a sound L’ beral, yet he
a ? h oJE 16n ’ ’ B .®yB Vanity Fair of somebody
aTr>n} tn l, would be a good deal more reason-
S&i 8 «°CT 80n }? other paper to say of somebody:
else— He calls himself a Tory, and he is a snob,”-


. .oreVo"!
" V-
A native, who had taken : ‘ too much whitefellow’s
whisky,” awoke with such a'head on him the next morn-
ing that he joined the Salvation Army. It must have
been very bad whisky indeed.
r -_ R- H. Dl White, ~wEo is an
honorary commissioner for the New South
Wales Court, has just given a sitting to a
young American portrait painter, who has pro-
duced a really speaking likeness, which goes out
to Sydney on board the Austral,”
T////6 a "Gftect king' ///ceness it
oetrue /~o nature, as ft iS &
fa own fact ttuzt /tocidfe /todd/e 2>oddfi° /s no
y Sfecc&er
JlF#
Mr Combes, C.M.G., has teen
heard from. He writes that “At
the Colonial and Indian, Exhibition
he has been fightinig the battle of
technical education, and has been
using his best endeavours to bring
the affairs of the Art Society of New
South Wales before the
more important artcircles
in England ; i.e. he set
to work and sent in 29
oil and water-colours of]
his own.
J. Bull : ■* It's all right, I ’spose,
>and it’s all in the family, as you say,
only I can’t help wondering what the
deuce you do with all the money you
get from me.’
A. Chinaman in Melbourne has
taken to the law. That's one thing a '’is R wgjgr .»«.•& )
about the Chinese. They are not particular, but are willing o
do anything for a livelihood.
THI MEW N. S. W -LOAN
G.OM. "No use, Pat, we are only
making it worse The next time you have
an axe to.grind take it to somebody else.'
retires.)
THINGS IN GENERAL.


Personal
Items
Tdiopathio erysipelas is the malady with
which Mr. Dailey has lately been troubled.
«y\ “ Graham Berry has the wiokedest blue
eyes ever possessed by man,” says a leader of Mel-
bourne fashion. And yet the masher politician
is 62.
“ Better late than never ” is the comment
which follows every paragraph notion in the
English papers of the wedding of Patti and
Nicollni.
The Maoleay Herald publishes an absurd
rumour that Burdett Smith has left Eog’aud for
Australia, much disgusted at the coolness of his
reoeption in the official circles of the mother-
country.
The Prince of Wales and the wife-kicking
Duke of Marlborough have become “completely
fooonoiled.” A man is known by the oompany he
keeps. This latter reflection is rough on Marl-
borough.
The “Claimant” is
trying to raise the wind
by a lecturing tour in
America. The subject of
these lectures is “ English
injustice,” and the aver-
age attendance is some-
what small. Our old
friend is on the wrong
tack altogether. A s
claimant to the Tich-
borne baronetcy he is no
longer interesting, but as
a man who was brought
from 26 stone, to 9 stone,
by a steady course of
skilly and stonebreaking,
he is a grand physical
Study. He should lecture
on “ flow to reduce your
Bulk,” illustrated by dis-
solving views. There is
now only one thing left
for the Claimant to do—
and that is to turn right-
about-face and tell the
truth. A book detailing
exactly how he worked
up all his bogus evidence
and giving the whole
Btory of his relations with
the old original deceased
Sir Roger Tichborne
Should bring him thous-
sands from a publisher.
As a liar, the claimant has
been a lamentable fail-
ure.
Mrs. Harriet Stevens,
who stood her trial last
week on the charge of
poisoning and baking
John Plum in the Beech-
worth (Vic.) district,
must be a lady of truly
mercurial temperament.
Harriet had been six
months in gaol, and
might reasonably be ex-
pected to feel a little fati-
Sued on the afternoon of
er acquittal. It isn’t
every day in the year that
one slips out of a noose
and emerges from the
Valley of the Shadow into
everyday life. Such an
occasion is usually one of
mingled joy and sadness
to the person chiefly in-
terested, calculated to
promote a temporary
love of solitude. Mrs.
Stevens, however, seems
to be quite indifferent to
old tradition. She cele-
brated her safe issue out
of all her afflictions by
Bpending the evening at
a local show. After put-
ting on a clean collar, and
making herself tidy, Mrs.
Stevens skipped out to
see “ Queen’s Evidence.”
Whether she went in for
oranges and nuts between
acts is not mentioned.
We have so few
native-born artists, that
In the death of Mr. Robert
Dowling, Australia loses
one of her very few
painters who have
achieved any success
whatever outside the
limits of the colonies.
The late artist was chiefly
known by “ The Return
of the Sheik and his son
from Mecca,” now in
Melbourne Art Gallery.
At the time of his death
he was in his fifty-ninth
year.
Bertrand, the fashionable Sydney dentist
who murdered Mr. Kinder (the husband of his
lover, Mrs. Kinder), at North Shore, 2) year: ago,
Is to be released shortly. He is now about 47
years of age.
The last words of Lord Shaftesbury, who
committed suicide lately, were, “ I am no use to
anybody.” It is a pity that the only peor who
had ascertained this fact should have carried his
Information away with him.
It is alleged that the Grand Duke Michael
Cf Russia has purchased a water-colour sketch,
executed by Mr. Combes, C.M.G,, of Sydney. The
extent of Michael’s folly altogether depends upon
how much he gave for the picture.
The Duke of Westminster devoted his
Derby stake, won for him by Ormonde, to election
purposes—in the Conservative interest, of course.
He had better not be too liberal that way; he
might want the money and a fleet horse some day.
Sir Graham Berry, K.C.M.G., is reported
by the D.T. London correspondent, to have blos-
somed forth into a moat truculent Imperialist.
He now supports all the old British institutions
except the hereditary Chamber and the Estab-
lished Church. When they make him a baronet
he will go in for them, too.
According to the local Herald, Cardinal
Moran’s piece at the celebration of the “ Month’s
Mind”—a sort of after-thought burial over the
late Archbishop Goold—in St. Patrick’s Cathedral,
Melbourne, was a soul-wringing affair. His dreary
platitudes and monotonous cadence drove many
from the Cathedral. The discourse was moran
they could stand.
Graham Berry once told this story about
himself:—“When I first obtained a situation as a
shop-boy, the master somewhat abruptly enquired
my name. I hesitatingly said, • Sir, Graham Berry,
sir.’ ‘Oh, well, Sir Graham Berry,’he laughingly
said, ‘go and sweep out the back store.”’ Those
who heard the anecdote laughed at it as a good
j oke. Now they discern that that shopkeeper was
a prophet.
After the recent Tasmanian railway acci-
dent, by which the local Premier, Treasurer, and
Attorney-General were disabled, a suggestion was
made by the simple-minded Dean of Hobart that
a thanksgiving service should be held out of
gratitude for the sparing of such valuable lives.
No one seconded the proposition, so the thanks-
giving did not come off. Any logical person can
I see the inference.
A Melbourne coroner on the “rights of
woman” is an edifying spectacle. A brute at Rich-
mond kicked his wife to death, and the municipal
official sapiently remarked that “the injuries
were of too serious a nature to permit the sup-
position that they were meant’as mere chastise-
ment.” Apparently a Victorian mongrel may
kick his wife so long as he employs his boots for
chastisement only.
Mr. Ling Ah Moey, a child of the sun, has
received his indentures as articled clerk, and is
SIR PATRICK (loq.): "CONFOUND IT, HE'S PRETTY LOW DOWN, BUT I CAN’T BLOW HIM OUT!
now firmly established In the ofH3B of Messrs.
Cleverdon and Westley, of Melbourne. The bland
slant-eyed Celestial has been reviled and assaulted
for cheapening labour iu this promisng young
land. If he’ll only wale ia and cheapen law,
public feeling will be turned, and will rear a
monument to his memory, and call his name
blessed for evermore.
The London correspondent of a Sydney
daily traces the Queen’s “ bad luck,” including the
Russian war (?), the deaths of the Princo Consort,
Princess Alice, and John Brown, to the proprietor-
ship of the great Kohi-noor. Possibly the writer
imagines that, lacking the diamond, she would
have inherited immortality, not only for herself
hut also for her relations and favourites. It is a
pity that the writer did not inherit a set of black-
ing brushes and a good stand. He would have
had a chanae of earning an honest living at a con-
genial employment.
The magnificent Judge Quinlan was asked
to propose a resolution at the meeting held in St.
Patrick’s Cathedral, Melbourne, the other Sunday,
in connection with the perpetuation of the memory
of Archbishop Goold. The Judge, with his usual
readiness to oblige, rose up before the
whole assemblage, and, notwithstanding the
solemnity of (the occasion, said in slow,
measured tones, “ Ladles and gentlenaen, I have
great pleasure in proposing this toast. ’ His Honor
was evidently thinking of the preceding Saturday
night. Such is life 1
The latest Tory lie regarding Mr. Glad-
stone is that he is possessed by a mania for shop-
ping, his purchases being of a very remarkable
character. He thinks nothing, they say, of making
a clean sweep of all the half-naked photos, in a
great stationery establishment, and he buys
ladies’ underclothing on a scale which would suit
Solomon or Brigham Young rather than a sedate
English Premier. This lie appears in a Chinese
paper, so it is probably the work of some Mongol
member of the PritnrosS League, whose death will
ane day supply a long-felt want.
Bishop Selwyn onoe received into the
Christian faith Ihaka (Jaoob), a noted old can-
nibal and polygamist, and some years after, when
re-visitiDg the locality, asked after his welfare,
and on being told he still lived, announced his in-
tention to call upon him. This was a great
honour, and the old chief was duly impressed.
He summoned his followers and bade them prepare
a feast, and make all proper preparation for re-
ceiving the distinguished guest. “Give him, he
said, "a waihene ” (wife). “ But,” said his major
domo, "this Is a Tohunga” (chief priest). Then,
(rravely replied the old Christianised heathen,
"give him two.”
In pronouncing a panegyric on the late
Archbishop Goold, of Melbourne, Bev. -Father
Cahill likened him to St Patrick and to the
Saviour ; but Father Cahill did not give the points
o f resemblance between the defunct ecclesiastic
and Ireland’s fancy saint, neither can we remem-
ber any Here is the beautiful little reminiscence
illustrative of the archbishop’s Christlike qualities;
—" Once, while going to confirmation, ne travelled
over a rough and tedious road, and met several
persons who were leading a few of the children to
the church. The archbishop took the children
into his carriage, and thus helped them to church.
We cannot call to mind any record of the lowly
Nizarene taking little children Into his carriage.
Our religious education hasbsen sadly neglected.
Wo fear that the new deoorative Initials
which are being so abundantly lavished on some of
our old friends, the “ representative Australians
now in England, will prove to be the sources
of much trouble. We well remember when
Sir W. J. Clarke was created a baronet;
Bill knew no more what "bart.” meant than
he knew about the interior economy of a
chronometer; but he took the title all the same,
and he never disgraced it in the least. He made
one slight mistake, though. Shortly after the
royal favour shone upon him, aF.ying Squadron
Admiral (or something of the sort), whom he had
sumptuously entertained, called on him and left
him a P.P.C. card. Not being very well up in his
French, Bill delicately acknowledged the compli-
ment, and, to make sure of the roving sailor's
title, had a quiet look at the paste-hoard. He
then wrote on the envelope, “ Admiral 80-and-80,
P.P.C.”
There was never a man born yet who
hadn’t a weak spot In him somewhere. It would
be hard to find a rcore level-headed citizen than
the late Mr. J. P. Fallon, of Albury, was when in
the flesh, and yet it appears he hud a great am-
bition to masquerade in uniform at the Victorian
Vice-regal Court. What the uniform was, never
troubled him much, providing it was a uniform,
and so it came to pass in the end that he managed
to get himself appointed as Columbian Consul-
General. Everything was then arranged to gratify
his one little fad, when a circumstance over wbioh
he bad no control Btepped la and decisively burst
up all his little scheme. Even before he received
his commUsion, Death stepped in and bore him
along to another Court, where a small tinsel plate
is the only decoration. Owing to the usual oflioial
muddle and delay, however, his appointment to
the Consul-Generalship has just been gazetted,
and It reads strangely by tne side of his death
notice.
Dr. Youl, the Melbourne coroner, is a
gentleman on whom sorrows sit lightly—or, shall
we say, a gentleman who sits lightly on sorrows
In a word, he is a wag. Tnere are times, of course,
when a coroner feels in duty bound to restrain his
humour out of respect for the deceased “sub-
ject.” But when it falls to Dr. Youl's lot to sit on
a Are he warms to his work amazingly, and is ju«t
as funny as the job is long. Only last wsek he
threw off such a budget of witticisms of
these enquiries, that the jury nearly choked with
counterfeited glee. One witness said that a party
appeared to be thunderstruck ” on learning that
hie house was on fire. Swift as an arrow from a
bow came the genial coroner's repartee—“lt should
have been lightning-stricken.” There were many
other j ikes nearly as dazzling as this one, but life
is too short for us to give them all. That single
illustration is sufficient to show that the Mel-
bourne coroner is a man of infinite jest. We
cannot help thinking that, if a sixpenny edition of
“ Youl’s Humours ” were slipped into the shell of
every ladyand gentleman inquested, a Urge pro-
portion of them would take up their little beds.and
walk,
The Berlin War Office sent a oelebrated
general to meet the fantastical picture represent-
ing the Duke of Connaught waiting with
the Guards at the burlesque battle of Tel-
el-Kebir, whioh the Queen was so ill-advised
as to send to the Fine Arts Exhibition there.
The general's name was Derision—general
der'slon. Truth says that the work is, artisti-
cally, not even mediocre, while the subject is
grotesque to the last degree ; and Berlin is really
not the sort of place where people canbe“ho-
cussed” by such fairy tales as Lord Wolseley sent
home from Egypt for Her Majesty's delectation.
By the way, we notice Zthat the same nigger-
butcher, “ Lord" Wolseley, ha 9 had the calm
impudence to patronise that splendid regi-
ment the Black Watch:When in aotion
with the Royal Highlanders one need take no
trouble about the part of the field where they are
engaged, for I have always then realised that
what men could do they wduld aooomplieh.
Officers pnd men work together with an entire
and mutual confidence in one another that ensures
suooess. Whenever I go on active service I
always try to have tjiis splendid regiment with me,
because' I can rely upon it at all limes and under
all circumstances. Wherever I see the ted hackle
of the Black Watch I feel I hawe there not only
good friends, but also staunoh comrades who will
staad by one to the last.” What a beetling cliff of
cheek this cutter of black threats must have!
ft is told in The Life
of Abraham Lincoln that
when he was about to
perform any very solemn
duty he always read first
a chapter from—Artemus
Ward.
There is an old
woman named Agnes
Smith in the Melbourne
Benevolent Asylum. Ac-
cording to her own ac-
count Agnes is bound up,
so to speak, with the his*
tory of Victoria. She
claims to have assisted in
laying out Batman after
his death.
The Right Hon. W.
B. Dailey’s illness is said
to have been brought on
by nervous anxiety. As
a Privy Councillor, he
feels it his duty to advise
his august Sovereign to
abdicate right away, but
doesn’t know whether to
do it personally, or by
letter.
Peter Campbell is
rapidly dropping from
his high estate. Once
again has Peter toed the
line at a Melbourne court
on the old charge—
whisky. The Binoh deals
gently with him on these
occasions, possibly from
fellow feeling, but when
we think of the ex-mis-
sionary’s future we can-
not help but weep. His
long incarceration seems
to have crushed even the
old man’s pride in his
identity. Peter’s one-
time venerable leeks are
now dyed black.
The Princess Vic-
toria Mary of Teok (eld-
est daughter of the im-
pecunious Duke and his
18-Btone Duchess) has
been guilty of a sweetly
impulsive act of charity.
Having “come out” in
society, and being now
fairly launched on the
overstocked royal mar-
riage market, the pretty
Princess, (this one is really
jam) felt that the rattles,
dolls and Noah’s arks of
Infancy interested her no
more, go she sant them
all to a Hospital for
Children with a touching
little note, of which a
copy was duly supplied
to the press Far belt
from us to gibe at this
act of royal consideration,
but we can't help remem-
beilrg that papa and
mamma Teck must have
bought most of those
toys, and that the bills
muitbeßt‘ll owing.
In re dynamite, London Punch says “We
all must die, but it s best to die in piece—if pos-
sible in one piece.” We record this as the only
joke wo have met with during five years' diligent
study of our little London contemporary. It was
rumoured some time ago that Punch was to be
turned into a comic paper, but the assertion seems
to have been a malicious fabrication.
Maxwell, arrested in New Zealand for
murdering his travelling companion, Preller,
whom fie subsequently confessed he tai ‘‘acci-
dentally killed” by administering chloroform to
him for the purposes of an operation, is to be
banged—next Octoberl They certainly do hang
in a leisurely way in Yankeeland. A condemned
murderer who stews in his own gravy for three
months is likely to get off eventually on the
ground of madness.
A German engineer has propounded a
scheme for stretching an overhead cable across
the Atlantic, and slinging cars from one continent
to the other suspended from it. The line Is to be
kept in the air by means of fans worked by elec-
tricity, which will revolve with immense rapidity,
and thus overcome the force of gravitation. How
the trains are to be propelled is not yet apparent,
but perhaps the idea is to hang the tram on the
greaßed rope by a hook, then hoist up the Luro-
pean end, and let the affair slide.
Pasteur, of hydrophobic celebrity, bad an
il'ustrious forerunner in ladama 11., king of
Madagascar. That monarch, Dent on aisc iveriDg
hop bitters or some other universal cure, made a
mixture of all the poisons to be found in bis king-
dom, and then inoculated his ministers to see how
it would act. The art of inooulation a ® st . tha J
Mme in its infancy, and the system adopted * as
simply to make a hole in each statesman with a
spike and then pour in a bottleful of the com-
pound. A new Cabinet came into power shortly
afterwards.


PEPPER AND SALT.
Dark days have oome upon a oertain Mel-
bourne Churoh. The congregation are no longer
In a position to pay their minister his stipulated
wage; so with Christian promptitude he has
tendered his resignation to the Presbytery. This
gentleman—a Rev. J. A. Stuart—was engaged to
labour in the vineyard for a penny per diem, and
he doesn’t care for dispensing the blessed Word at
a lower-figure. Comedians may occasionally rub
along on half salaries (or no salaries at all), but
your conscientious parson throws up his engage-
ment if the treasury Isn’t up to expectations. The
plain, unvarnished tale of the Rev. J. A. Stuart
was particularly touohing. He said:—“l have
been paid very satisfactorily, but the whole diffi-
culty is a question of finance.” Alas, poor con-
gregation! If they lay not up for themselves
some treasures on earth, In order to set that
church humming again, their last state will be
worse than their first. Number 393 in tho book,
common metre:—
English literature has just been enriched
by the publication of another royal volume,
“The Cruise of the Bacohante.” This is tbe re-
vised diary of those dear little innocents, Albert
Victor and George of Wales, written during their
never-to-be-forgotten tour round the world. That
the whole book is an insult to humanity goes with
out saying. But onepasssge of Australian interest
deserves embalming as a sample of unblushing
impudence Squatters, with limited capital,
borrow money on the security of their station,
stock, or wool. If they go too far they get em-
barrassed, and the end of embarrassment here, as
in the old country and all the world over, is the
same.” If this should meet the eye of any squatter
who ever went “ nap ” on a sainfall whioh didn’t
come off, let us trust he won’t say anything “ dis-
loyal ” about the self-satisfied young prigs who
wrote It. We wouldn’t say anything “disloyal”
for the world. But we will sing an Interrogative
ditty;—
The people of Queensland are apparently
rather proud of their new flogger and hanger
and Issue periodical descriptions of his general
appearanoe and well-being. He is, according to
the latest report, “ a man of somewhat gentle,
manly appearanoe, and looks like a person who has
seen better days, while his face carries a look at
times whioh Is somewhat the reverse of one of
love towards mankind generally. At the same
time his features lack any expression of that
hideousne3S generally attributed to the genus
hangman.” No doubt the Queensland larrikins
appreciate the honour of being walloped by a gen-
tleman, but we cannot quite understand the allu-
jgion to " better days.” Mr. Wairr is now one o
the most prominent members of the Civil Service,
and though he may not have a seat in the Cabinet
he Is already about as well known as Mr. Griffith
himself, so his best days are just dawning. Some
slight excitement has been caused, we believe, In
well-informed oiroles, by the new official’s custom
of carrying an umbrella, the impression having
got about that he is In the habit of flogging his
patients with the gingham, but this rumour Is
entirely without foundation. In fact, to use up a
silk umbrella on the back of a bull-hide larrikin
would be a sinful extravagance of which no sen-
sible man oould bs guilty, and to judge from some
of tbe reports from Bananaland, if such a system
were adopted it would be neoessary for Mr. Wairr
to oarry a balloon-parachute, as no smaller
weapon would meet the emergenoy.
* . * *
Hamo Tfiornycroft, the London soulptor,
is at woi*k on a statue of General Gordon, late of
Khartoum, aud Mr. Murray Smith, who takes a
great interest in stone and wooden heads of all
kinds, has kindly forwarded a description of the
petrified hero. In his present condition, it appears,
he is habited in a long undress tunic, with a field-
glass slung over his shoulder, aud a far-away look
in his eyes. His left foot rests on a “disused
cannon,” while his right Is placed on top of the
vegetable-mould whioh forms the surface dressing
of this vale of tears. All this may be very satis-
factory to Murray Smith, but nobody else is likely
to get enthusiastic about it. General Gordon went
to the dark and goat-infested continent to jump
on an aotlve prophet, and the British taxpayer
found the money for the live meat soldier on that
occasion. Now he is requested to pay for a stone
warrior as well, who is treading on a cannon in-
stead of on a prophet, aud is expected to be
charmed with the far-away look in the rocky eyes
of his new graven Image. Surely this statue busi-
ness is getting about played out. If it goes on
much longer there won’t be room for live people
to walk about without jostling against all sorts of
quartz celebrities on stumpy pedestals.
A QUESTION OF FINANCE.
Poor sheep without a shepherd I Poor souls with
none to save!
With none to bring glad tidings of a life beyond
the grave;
Our bosom aohes with pity as we think of your
mischance—
But be patient, and remember ’tis a question of
finance.
If funds had been forthcoming for to purchase
corn and oil
Wherewith to cheer your shepherd in his daily
round of toil—
If some Christian had been willing some few hun-
dreds to advance,
You would not be left lamenting. ’Tls a question
of finance.
Though the Master of your pastor had not where
to lay His head,
Yet his servant (and all servants) must he nicely
housed and fed;
He oan’t get grub from ravens, like the Prophet
of romance, *
And to fix him up with comforts is a question of
finance.
Though the layman may need little, very little,
here below,
Yet ’tls money makes the Gospel (as It makes the
mare) to go;
And a parson is a puppet who is disinclined to
dance,
If the wires be not gilded. ’Tls a question of
finance.
So, bear up, friends and brethren, though your
road is rather rough,
You still may find salvation, if you’ll only find the
"stuff ”;
Then the eye of Christ’s diaolple will not look at
you askance—
Oh! the Church’s one foundation is that little word
" flnanoe.”
But, if so be it happens that you cannot raise the
gold
To engage another shepherd, you will never reach
the fold;
For at Heaven’s Gate St. Peter (with a disapprov-
ing glance)
Will refuse you, saying sadly—" ’Twas a question
of finance.”
(* For ravens read gipsies in revised scriptures.)
TO THOSE PRINCES.
Wbat is that end 1 We know a swell
Or two by duns much harassed,
Who seem to rub on pretty well
In life, although embarrassed ;
Some princes, as the whole world knows,
Drop coin at speculations—
Yet, does the British bank foreclose
And sell their lofty stations ?
Sweet twaddlers, guileless little youths
(In gilt-edged volumes jotting
A hoard of moral business truths
You gathered while globe-trottiDg),
Remember this—the man who toils
For riches e’en may lose ’em;
But he who grabs a people’s spoils
Quite nonchalantly “blues” ’em.
" The end the same /” The one comes down
To ruin and starvation,
The other—God preserve the Crown I
Comes dawn upon the nation.
The busy bees may go too far
And lose their store of honey,
But drones, like you and your papa,
Shall never want for money.
(To conclude with the National Anthem.)
Political
Points
When Sir John Robertson resigned, Muclgee
went to the Wall. ,
Judging by present appearances, J. P.
Abbott is likely to be leadibg a Protectionißt
Government in N.S.W. one of these days.
The Sydney Daily Telegraph has lost all
confidence in Mr. Barton as Speaker. He has not
lost confidence in the D.T. as a paper. He never
bad any.
Mr. See, M.P., says he ought not to be ex-
pected to find brains for Sir Henry Parkes. Cer-
tainly not; at least, not till he has supplied him-
self.
Bir Henry Parkes applauds Sir Graham
Berry’s consistent advocacy of Protection. Now,
who will step up and applaud Sir Henry for his
consistent advocacy of anything ?
Sir Henry Parkes says he “ always denies
himself everything that he likes.” That is only
half of it. He denies himself when anything of his
record that he doesn’t like Is quoted against him.
The Maoleay Argus says that a lot of
selections are taken up at the Kempsey Lands
Office at the inst'eration of dummymongers. It
avers that from 30 to 50 dummies have lately
selected.
“ One word more,” said Dan. O’Connor,
and he proceeded to say it. The “ one word ”
contained 3,967,218 syllables, and the strangers’
gallery solemnly filed out before he had got one
quarter through.
E. W. O’Sullivan, M.L.A., swore he would
pass the N.S.W. Customs Duties Bill, or keep the
House sitting till " Hell was frozen over.” His
next move Is for a tax on agricultural produce,
for which at least 65 members will vote.
Whatever Harold Stephen’s faults may be
he is a good Liberal. For over seven days Jhe
had been singing “The Marseillaise” and otherwise
girding himself for the Protectionist battle, but
when the crisis oame, he—simply went into a fit.
The Sydney Herald reporter gave Mr. J.
B. Neild a straight drive over that Goulburn Free-
trade speech. The oration was out down to a
dozen lines, and then aline inserted, alleging that
as Mr. Neild continued orating until atter 10 p.m„
other speakers were obliged to curtail their re-
marks 1
The cost to the State of educating children
In the public Bhools of N.S.W. is £6 12s. Id. per
year, calculated upon the average attendance.
This is a big slice of Socialism. The rate is £llos.
higher than that of any other colony, and more
ihan £3 above the average of English Board
sohools.
An English paper censures some of the
Commons for bringing tumblers of brandy and
soda into the House and drinking them from time
to time while addressing the chair. It is different
in the N.S.W. Assembly. Members often brffig in
a lot of brandy-and-soda with them, but not in a
tumbler. The member himself is generally the
tumbler.
The N.S.W. Opposition fiercely opposed
the appointment of T. M. Slattery as Chairman of
Committees— mainly, m it came out during the
debate, because he is of the R.C, faith! However,
Mr. Gould, who was “ run ” as the rival candidate,
was defeated by a large majority. Mr. Gould, it is
explained, was put up “ because his name smelt a
bit yellow.”
The children of J ohn Pilkington, London,
were wholly without food for two days. John
oould stand it no longer. He took a four-pound
fancy loaf from a baker’s barrow; he was followed
and arrested. Mr. Partridge, the magistrate, dis-
charged him, and called the attention of the re-
lieving officer to the case. Ninety years ago
John would have been transported.
The Bogaa is the most expensive electorate
i n N.S.W. At the general elections of ’BO, ’B3. and
’B5 it cost the country £956, £789, and £6BO for
the respective occasions. Against this must be
set the fact that Sir Patrick Jennings is a valuable
member. The total cost of a general election in
N.S.W. varies from £9009 to 1£13,000. And yet
there are plenty of members dear at any price.
In Regent-street, London, on the afternoon
of Primrose Day, a correspondent counted 308
men, women, and children who wore the Beacons-
fleld badge. Of this number, 185 were females, 14
were ooachmen, 13 footmen, 5 page boys, 3 blind
men, 1 a human sandwich, 1 a barrel-organ with
wheezy pug dog thrown in, 3 Celtic milkmaids.
About 30 were females with bleached hair and a
profusion of jewels.
Joseph Arch has failed, by 20 votes, to
secure a seat in the new House of Commons. In
his time Aroh has done good service for the Eng-
lish agricultural labourer, but of iate the old man
has figured as a beslaverer of the Priacelof Wales. A
sycophantic speeoh which he delivered at a recent
publio dinner is probably accountable for Joseph’s
defeat. The newly-franchised “ Hodge ” is be-
ginning to think for himself.
Mr. Jacob Garrard, the Orangeman, and
Mr. J. 8. Hawthorne, the Reotaabite, both repre-
sent the Democratic and Protectionist consti-
tuency of Balmain in the N.S.W. Legislature.
Both these gentlemen voted for the Customs
Duties Bill, but they act in concert with the
Free-trade-Parkes’ party against the Jennings’
Government. Possibly, at the next election, the
Balmainites, a large section of whom are agitating
for State encouragement to the colonial iron in-
dustry, will got stauncher Democrats to represent
them.
The N.S.W. Education and Survey depart-
ments have a new jsy stem of double-entry. It has
iust been found that they, with a pleasing spirit of
generosity, have both paid the same surveyors for
the same work. Very likely the surveyors didn't
notice the error, or if they did, simply regarded
the double payment as a sort of antioipatory
Queen’s Jubilee bonus. While the N.S.W. Go-
vernment pays twice over for work, and only re-
ceives a percentage of the money due for freight
and telegrams, it is no wonder that the Treasurer
rubs his scalp through his hair in a fierce struggle
to wipe out that million or so comprising the
national shortage.
Henry George, in an article on “Home
Rule and the Land Question,” written in April
last, says “ Grattan’s Parliament—a oorrupt
conclave of the ruling oligarchy, in whioh tbe
masses of the people had no representation—oould
no more be resuscitated ia Ireland to-day than
slavery could be re-established in America. An
Irish Parliament now must mean a Parliament in
which the landless, not the landlords, shall rule—a
Parliament which would at once address itself to
the task of abolishing landlordism. And while
nothing else than the full management of
their own affairs can satisfy the Irish demand,
any concession which falls short of that can only
increase the power of demanding more.”
Tbe cause of Irish liberty is going to the
dogs. The people of Ashburton (N.Z) have de-
clared against it, and established an “Irish
Patriotic Union ” for the preservation of the
Empire, so Mr. Parnell may consider that his sun
has set. Ashburton is one of the largest general
stores and beer-synagogues on the Canterbury
Plains, and if the policeman and the bar-keeper,
and the old woman who sells the gritty sugar and
the sticky lollies, have all resolved to save the
Empire, no doubt the Empire will ultimately be
saved. Perhaps, however, as the job is rather a
big one, it would be well to begin by saving that
part of the Queen’s dominions which is sticking on
to the roots of the local groggery, and when it
has been made quite secure, the Irish Patriotic
Union can look after the other items of the
Empire.
At the Cobar Appraisement Court the
squatters cried “ stinking fish” to their own hold-
ings to a fearful extent, and ran down the carry-
ing capacity of their runs to zero. But when the
local paper published only a part of their own
evidence, oh what a row there was I In the sub-
sequent issues the editor wisely gave tho court a
wide berth. “ Ruin us with the banks,” said one
irate sheopist, blaming the editor for publishing,
and not himself for swearing to, the evidence. One
pastoralist naively admitted that although he had
put 59.000 sheep on a run, the carrying oaoaoity of
which was only 30.000, it had been done to sell ;
29,000 un-fortunate animals died of starvation to
enable one two-legged brute to try and take
another biped in. These are the men who want re-
duction in rentals 1
A very humorous dozen of Sydney men
have formed themselves into an association to
check recklessness of expenditure by the Govern-
ment and put the colony straight in the matter of
revenue and several other things. Judging from
the mental calibre of these doughty reformers we
prophesy their possession in the very dim future
of power in the political world, just about equal
to that now possessed by Brickhiil’s Baby or the
little boy at Manly. Mr. G. N. Griffiths, who was
once member for East Sydney, takes a front place
in tho show. Mr. J. Armstrong, a man of much
weight and repute—for his weight—at the Bar,
and Mr. G. W. Tate, a butter-trade Demosthenes,
with several other men of equal importance, have
also their assistance to this magnificent move-
ment. Sir Patrick Jennings is unconcerned so
far, but Mr. Dibbs is said to be haunted by visions
of the outcome of this gigantic storm in a re-
markably small tea-cup.
■ Mr. Wall, tbe new Mudges (N.S.W.) mem-
ber, has given notice of a useful motion for the
6th August. Its effect will bs to make land-
owners, who obtain permission from the Crown to
work mines on their own ground, subject to the
same conditions as to labour as apply to other
mineral leases. Unless some such motion is
passed, the “right” which the State reserves to
minerals contained in any land of which the sur-
face has been alienated will be but a shadow.
Owners who obtain the right to mine on their
own lands under the present state of the law, will
be able to reserve the minerals indefinitely unless
direct provision is made to block the little game.
Mr. Wall promises to be an acquisition to the House.
The motion above-noted ia distinct from that also
in his name seeking to proclaim the whole colony
a mining area, so that lands taken up thereafter
may be subject to the conditions of the 45th sec-
tion of the 1884 Land Act, with respect to all
minerals as well as gold.
Mr. Abigail, M.P., claims oredit for expos-
ing the N.S.W. railway frauds. The country
accords him all due kudos, but the Bulletin
holds that this is also the time to gratefully re-
member the manful efforts made by Mr J. P.
Garvan, the present Minister of Justioe, to prevent
Mr. Wright (now charged with defrauding the
Government) from assuming office as N.S W.
Minister of Works at a time when he (Mr. W.)
was still head of the big railway-carrying firm of
Wright, Heaton and Co. Mr. Garvan then made
no personal imputation against Mr. Wright—he
merely contended that no man could fairly serve
two masters-(his firm and his country)—in cases
where the interests of the two might clash; that
no man could be a competent j udge in his o wn cause
—and that to put the most honourable of men into
a position where he might have to decide between
the claims of the State Treasury and of his own
breeches-pocket, would be to place an undue and
possibly breaking strain on human honesty. The
public should remember, also, that the S.M.
Herald vehemently opposed Mr. Garvan and up-
held the impudent position assumed by Mr. Wright’s
so-called friends on the occasion. All of which goes
to show that It is iavariably better to champion a
principle than to support an individual. Thb
Bulletin has no wish to prejudge the case of Mr.
Wright, but it contends that that ventlemen, whose
unimpeachable honesty was affirmed at a public
banquet where he was presented with plate which
he said he would hand down to his family as aa
heirloom, would now be enjoying a more peaceful
time had he never been Minister of Works
It is asserted that a private speouiotor has
offered to pay the NS.W. Government £lOOO ayear
for a lease of the Jenolaa Caves. This comes of
letting a Sydney mayor go round there on a visit
of inspection. His report on them in the Sydney
D.T. was funny enough to make a man pay £lOOO
a year just simply for the privilege of going there
to work out humorous items for Abigail’s pap=>r,
the Christian World. But the offer is really
worth consideration. “ Jerry ” Wilson now gets
£2OO a year for seeing that the caves don’t run
away, and as he holds a monopoly of accommoda-
tion, his billet should be as profitable as sheepsteal-
ing, and but little less lucrative than trucking wool.
It may be objected that if a mere speculator got
hold of the caves, he might run them for all they
and the visitors are worth, whereas Mr. Wilson
is famed for the pure philanthropy of his dealings
with tourists, but this objection can hardly oarry
any weight. Visitors to the caves should expeot
to be charged full rates, and it is not likely that a
private owner would fleece patrons, any more than
Jerry Wilson does at present.
It is astonishing what a big grip of the
butt-end ®f universal truth a N S.W. member gets
whemhe is boosted into the billet of Minister for
Lands. Mr. Copeland is no exception. Among his
more recent inspirations is the discovery that
leased land ought to be worth 6d. an acre at the
very least—no, lowest—we have no wish to compete
with J. B. Neild in the bad pun line—as it would
produoe £1 an acre if sold. There is a lot of trfith
in this proposition. The land ought to be worth
6d. an acre rent, but, unfortunately, it isn't. Then,
too, if sold, it would return £1 an acre, but, un-
luckily, no one will buy most of it at half that
rate. And, further, although it would produoe £1
ultimately, the present value of the purchase-
money would be very much less than that. Only
3s. is paid down by the selector, who then generally
gets three or four years’ intermission, at the end
of which time he pays the balance, with 4 per oent.
interest added, by yearly instalments. Mr. Cope-
land is about as smart as they make them for the
N.S.W. Assembly, but his genius broke.up when
he rose to the magnitude of this Crown lease
question.
The Melbourne Mbrald, which ia run by
an Irish gentleman who considers it good business
on all occasions to demonstrate his loyalty, loves a
lord about as dearly as any journal in Australia.
It has j ust been gushing over the, Duke of Cam-
bridge’s after-dinner oratory anent Imperial
federation. The dook, cjoncherknow, thinks that
federation is as necessary in peace as in war. and
is, in fact, “ one vast soheme of insurance/’ So
far as that goes, we quite agree with the dook. It
is a scheme of insurance, in which the colonies
would be required to pay the annual premium,
and when any serious claim was made upon the
Home ofiice it would probably be unable to come
up to the scratch. But we are forgetting about
the Herald. These opinions of the dook’s are
exceptionally valuable in the opinion of our little
contemporary, because “the Queen's cousin has
been a soldier from his boyhood, and is almost ex-
ceptionally military in his ideas and prejudices.”
Dear dook I Even his own mother wouldn’t re-
cognise him from such a description. The very
wildest stretch of imagination cannot picture the
fat rubicund commander-in-chief of the British
forces as a soldier. He onoe took a distant sniff at
gunpowder in the Crimea, and it so affected his
poor Anglo-German nerves that he returned home
immediately with a minute wound, which nobody
ever knew how he got. The Duke of Connaught
is a veritable fire-eater compared with his elderly
second oousin, and this latter’e “ exceptionally
military” ideas form the text for a Herald
leader. It is very sickening, but it is also rather
sad.
The working classes of N.S.W. are, as a
body, about the worßt educated people politically
in the colonies. Just now the iron trade ia in a
very depressed state, and hundreds of men are
badly in want of employment. Last week a meeting
of ironworkers was called in the Protestant Hall,
Sydney, to take some steps to relieve the distress
existing amongst them, and from the way they
acted it was quite evident that their distress had
not taught them the necessity of adopting a pro-
tective policy in order to keep foreign labour out
of the colony. The chairman (F. P. Franki) said
they wanted a 10 per cent, duty, aud then he spoke
disparagingly of Protection. Then another speaker
referred in complimentary terms to “Honest”
John Sutherland, M.P.; another mentioned Sir
.Henry Parkes’ name, which was received with
'cheers ; Jaoob Garrard, M.P., came forward and
met with a cordial reception; and little Abigail,
M.P„ was lustily cheered. One would have thought
that working men out of employment would have
known better. So long as they allow themselves to
be gulled in this manner so long will they remain in
their present state. What reason have they to
cheer Messrs. Sutherland, Garrard, and Abigail ?
The first-named legislator is a staunch. Free-
trader; Jacob Garrard is now acting in concert
with the Freetrade- cum- Parkes faotion to
oust a Government which is just now doing the
work of the Protectionists : and little Abigail
only recently voted against ad valorem duties in
the House, besides being the henchman of Sir
Henry Parkes—the statesman who fights against
Protection, payment of members, and every other
Democratic measure. The Sutherlands, Garrards,
and Abigails are the worst enemies the N.S.W.
tradesmen have got. Such politicians are wolves
in sheep's clothing. They have the words “work-
ing men ” always on their lips when making elec-
tion speeches, and by talking in this hi-falutin
style and promising everything they manage to
practise on the gullibility of the industrial classes
who return them to Parliament. If the working
classes allow themselves to be so easily bam-
boozled they have only themselves to blame for
their distress. It is time they were able to dis-
tinguish between their friends and their enemies.
N.S.W. TO SIR JOHN.
Jack Robertson, my jo, John,
When first we two did meet;
Your looks were dark and clustering,
Your voioe was clear and sweet;
Bat now your hair is white, John,
Your voice would shame a crow,
’Twas spoiled in fighting for my cause,
Jack Robertson, my jo.
Jack RobertsoD, my jo, John,
You’ve won some gallant fights;
You helped to gain for me, John,
My liberties and rights:
And though you’re old and crank, John,
I’m loth to let you go,
Some younger men were better spared,
Jack Robertson, my jo.
Tlie Winton (Queensland) Hekalb is ex-
cited over a remarkable find which has been made
in the remote West. A man who was engaged
sinking a well in that thirsty land has discovered,
at a depth of 350 ft„ three balls joined together, to
form a pawnbroker's sign, each being about Gin.
in circumference, of a crystalline appearance,
and made of some compound whioh is believed
to consist greatly of mundic and tin. No trace
either of a pawnbroker or a pledge-ticket was
discovered, so the balls stand alone in their
majestic simplicity as a relic of primeval life in
Australia. The most feasible explanation of the
mystery seems to be that the lost 10 tribes started
the mutual loan and discount business in
the Northern wilds, and took in all the ward-
robe of the original inhabitants, which may
account for the present unclothed state of
the aboriginal race. Some learned men, however,
reject this theory, and believe that the Israelites
on arriving in this oountry found it empty, and
gradually degenerated for want of anything to dis"
count until they returned to their original state of
savagery, and now do not even know how to draw
up a bill of sale, and are utterly unable to calcu-
late three months’ interest at 1100 per shent per
annum. A few of the tribes who resisted this
deterioration have apparently come further south,
and their descendants are now writing novels im
New South Wales, but the bulk of the chosen
people wander in the wilderness, annexing
chickens, drinking bad rum, accepting a Govern-
ment blanket annually, and utterly innocent of
any design for returning to their native land to
hunt the Hebrew kangaroo on Lebanon.


ROT A L.
T
HIA T R M
Williamson, Garner and Mtjsgrot*, Managers.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
FAREWELL PERFORMANCES of the
WILLIAMSON SEASON.
FIFTh"wEEK
of the
WILLIAMSONS. tt . ,_ anxr
MAGGIE MOORE and J. C. WILLIAMSON,
ANOTHER TRIUMPH
achieved by tbe production of the New bensa-
tional Drama, entitled the
SHADOWS OF A GREAT CITY.
Maggie Moore as Biddy Ronan.
Mr. Williamson as Jim Farron.
ONLY EIGHT MORE PERFORMANCES
can be given of _____
THE SHADOWS OF A GREAT CITY.
Business Manager for Mr. Williamson, Mr. Hughes.
Prices as usual. Box plan now open.
Royal standard theatre,
CASTLEREAOH-STREET,
Between Liverpool and Bathurst streets.
Lessee Mr. Frank Smith.
Manager for Mr. F. Smith... Mr. J. Grant.
Under the Management of Mr. Dampier.
Business Manager Mr. Fred. Gunther
A DISTINCT UNEQUIVOCAL TRIUMPH.
SEVENTH WEEK and LAST TWO NIGHTS of
FOR THE TERM OF HIS NATURAL LIFE.
Box Plan open at Nicholson’s George-street.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING,
The drama written expressly for Mr. Dampier by
Thomas Somers, Esq., and entitled,
FOR THE TERM OF HIS NATURAL LIFE,
Interpreted by
MR. DAMPIER
and his Dramatic Company.
SATURDAY NEXT, VOICES OF THE NIGHT.
G
AIK T Y
Lessee
Business Manager...
THEATRE
.. Mr. John Solomon
.. Mr. B. N. Jones.
ELEVENTH WEEK.
FUN FUN
FUN on the BRISTOL,
LAST WEEK OF ZEOLA and OHMY.
LAST NIGHTS of the BIG GUN.
Look out for AL A. Look out for ALA.
H. J. SAMUELL, Representative for Mr. John F.
Sheridan.
OADIMY Of MUSIC.
Proprietor and Manager.. F. B. Hiscooks.
Business Manager .. .. A. L. Cunard.
710 NIGHTS 710
of the veritable
HISCOCKB’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and SPECIALITY UNION.
THE EVER POPULAR
and
FASHIONABLE RESORT.
T
HR
ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager
Business and Stage Manager ..
Mr. Frank Smith.
Mr. E. Shipp.
The Home of Minstrelsy and Mirth.
iThe Popular and Fashionable Resort.
TO-NIGHT, and every evening during the week,
THE ALHAMBRA VARIETY and SPECIALTY
UNION in their refined entertainment.
MINSTELSY, OLIO, and FARCE.
Popular Prices; Orchestra chairs, 3s; stalls, Is;
balcony, Is.
Every Sunday Night, Grand Concert Spirltuel,
at 7.30 o’clock.
WJ. HOLLOWAY
• and
MISS ESSIE JENYNS,
supported by their especially selected Company,
in
** A Ring of Iron,” “A Mad Marriage,” “The
Broken Idol,” “Romeo and Juliet,” “Much Ad t
About Nothing,” “As You Like It,” See., &c.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE, JUNE 7th,
for Thirteen Weeks.
C
I T Y HA
(LATE THEATRE ROYAL).
MR. H. N. ABBOTT
Having Leased the above Building for a term of
years, has at great cost Remodelled, Redecor-
ated, and Transformed the entire
Auditorium into
A MAGNIFICENT HALL,
Capable of Accommodating 3000 Persons,
And can now be engaged for
BALLS, CONCBRTS, BAZAARS, AND ALL
ENTERTAINMENTS.
THE HALL CONTAINS A FLOOR FOR
DANCING, 70 x 60 FEE l’.
For Hire, apply
H. N. ABBOTT,
Opera House,
Auokland.
JQTNCH
Manager
FAMILY BELMRINGERS
(Organised 1867).
.. .. .. Harry Lynch,
NORTHERN TOUR.
Kemps ey, July 23, 24, 26.
Laurieton, Cundletown, Wingham, to follow.
Sydney Farewell Season, September and October.
Admission—4s., 3i.. and 2i. Doors open at 7.30,
Overture at 8.
JAMES SMITH,
H. E. BARNES,
| Agents.
THEATRE ROYAL,
I£fc«KHAMPTON,
THE above favourite house of Amusement has
just been thoroughly renovated, and is now
open to Travelling Companies.
For terms, &c., apply to
CHARLES NASH,
Proprietor.
Sydney Bicycle Club.
FIFTH Annual Intercolonial Amateur Cham-
pion
BICYCLE and TRICYCLE RACE MEETING.
Under the Patronage and Rules of the N.S.W.
'Cyclists’ Union.
To be held at the N.S.W. Cricket Association
Ground, Moore Park, Sydney, N.S.W.,
On SATURDAY, 14th AUGUST, 1886.
Programme.
1. One Mile Maiden Bicycle Handioap, to be ridden
on roadsters. Minimum weight, 351bs.
2. One Mile Open Bicyole Handicap
3. One Mile Invitation Soratch Bicycle Race
4. Ten Miles’ Bicycle Amateur Championship of
N.B.W.—The Gardiner Cup
5. Two Miles' Scratch Bicycle Race—The Millbrook
Challenge Cup
6. Three Miles’ Bicycle Handicap—The Ladies
Bracelets. Competitors Id this race must be
nominated by ladies
7. One Mile All Softools’ Bicycle Handicap
8. One Mile Tricycle Handicap
9. 440 yards’ Handioap Foot Race.
THREE PRIZES IN EACH EVENT.
All events open to all Amateurs.
Entries clos3 on Monday, 2nd August, at 9 o’clock
p.m„ With the hon. sec., 297 George-street, Sydney,
from whom entry forms may be obtained.
J. WILKES, Hon. Sec.
First annual cavalry tournament
and MILITARY SPORTS,
to be held at the
AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY’S GROUNDS,
Moore Park,
On SATURDAY, AUGUST 14th,
Under the distinguished patronage and presence
Right Hon. BARON CARRINGTON, P.0..G C.M G.
Commander-in-Chief, and Hon. Colonel
Cavalry Forces,
And by special permission of Major-General
Richardson, C.B.
17 EVENTS,
Including Cavalry J umping, Tilting at the Ring,
Tent-pegging, Siloing Lemons, Mounted and Dis-
mounted Combats, Sword and Lance Exeroises,
Musical Ride, &0., Artillery Gun Competition and
Wheel Races, Infantry Bayonet Competition,
Naval Cutlass Exercises, Foot Racing. &o.
Entries for all events close on the 30th July.
For full particulars apply to
The Secretaries Cavalry Sports Committee,
17 O’Connell-street, Sydney
010,000. £lO,OOO. —“ BARB’S ” GRAND CON-
-3w SULTATION on the MELBOURNE CUP,
to be run on the Flemington Racecourse, Mel-
bourne, in November, 1886. 20,000 Members at
10s. each, to be divided as follows The Highest
Prize is £2OOO, the Lowest £7 10s.
Prizes —lst horse, £2OOO ; 2nd horse, £lOOO ;
3rd horse, £6OO ; Starters (divided), £600; Non-
starters (divided), £9OO.
Cash Awards. —Ten Prizes at £lOO each;
Twenty Prizes at £5O each ; Thirty prizes at £25
each ; Forty prizes at £2O each ; Sixty prizes at
£lO each ; One Hundred £7 10s.
Each Ticket has seven chances, and can obtain
a Prize in each of the Seven Drawings, which re-
duces the odds to about six to one ; in fact, One
Ten Shillings Ticket could obtain seven Prizes.
Please send P.O. Orders when convenient, or Bank Notes.
Country Cheques must have One Shilling exchange added,
and marked correct by bank. Two stamps required for reply
and result. The drawing will take place under the super-
vision of a Committee of the Shareholders. All will be done
to ensure the entire satisfaction of Subscribers. Please send
early for Tickets and Register letters. Please address—
“ BARB,”
c. o. T. G. Green, Guildhall Hotel,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
M
O N U M E N T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on request.
J. CUNNINGHAM,
Margaret-street, Wynward-square, Sydney.
JU ERCANTILB ROWING CLUB
Eleventh Annual Bail,
under the patronage of the Worshipful the Mayor,
JOHN YOUNG, Esq.,
who, with the Lady Mayoress, has promised to be
present.
will be held in the
- TOWN HALL,
ON WEDNEBDAY, AUGUST 3.
Tickets, limited, are obtainable from the fol-
lowing members of the Committee Messrs.
W. R. Benson. J. Blackman, F. Boulton, R. E.
Brindley, F. J. Bull, H. R. Cox, E S. Deane, G.
Drees, K, Giitlnan, E. M. Haymett, F. R. Isler, F.
Ives, R. A. Keddie, J. Lord, W. J. Merriman, J.
Mannix, 8. H. Martin, T. Playfair, jun., G. Robert-
son, J. Smart, T. Stobo, F. Thorpe, J. Trimble,
C. H. Wilkinson, and J. Young.
W. A. BLACKSTONE, Hon. Secretary.
Telegraph Department.
FOLEY’S SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day In Boxing,
Gymnastios, Wrestling, Fencing, &o. For
terms, &e., apply to
H. M. CANSDELL,
Manager and Instructor.
LADIES OF SYDNEY.
XT behoves every thrifty housewife to
look to the future, in order if pos-
sible to
SAVE MONEY.
It is a well-known fact that a large in-
crease has occurred in the price of wool at
home, and it is only to be expected that
prices of Woollen Goods will be higher
next winter than they are this ; so that if
any of you will be requiring
NEW BLANKETS
next winter, how much better to buy them
now, and save the inevitable increase in
price.
Those who have bought blankets from
this winter know what excellent value we
have been giving, and we feel sure that if
you do so also you will never regret it.
OUR PRICE ARE—
Is. lid., ss. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. lid., Bs. 6d.,
10s. 6d., 12s. 6d., 14s. 6d., 15s. 6d.,
18s. 6d., 205., 255., 305., and
up to 50s, a pair,
HORDERN BROTHERS
(HORDERN’S JN HITT STREET),
211 PITT STEBBT,
A T
NOW ON.
GEORGE ROBERTSON
COMPANY’S,
361 George-Btreet,
AND
A SPECIAL SALE OF SURPLUS BTOCK OF
BOOKS,
AT GREATLY REDUCED PRICES.
The Selection offered ranges over every branch
of Literature, and comprises many Valuable,
Standard and Popular Works.
GEORGE ROBERTSON and COMPANY.
361 George-street.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, July 20, 1881!.
T*N?*RB for PUBLIC WOBKB and SUP-
. PWLKB.—TKNDBBS are Invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
oulars see Gov*rnmbnt Gazstts, a file of which
la kept at every Post Office in the oolony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, If possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly compiled
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender. y
mtun of Works snd SuppllM
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received at
this offloe.
Repairs, old Courthouse, Dar-
linghurst
Supply, &e., of Nine Iron Water
Tanks, Railways
Supply of Four Wrought Iron
Grippers. North Shore Tram-
way
Tuesday,
July Bf,
at XX o’clock,
Erection of Station Buildings,
Michelago.Goulburnto Cooma
Railway
Construction of 130-ton Hoppsr
Barge, Dredge Service
Cleaning Stock Waggons at
Fiemington (Homebush)
Tuesday,
August 3,
at 11 o’clock.
FenciDgr, &c , Police Buildings,
Cobborah
Erection of Ofßoes, Locomotive
Branch of Railways, Eveieigh
Erection of Stattonmaster’s
House, Blackheath, Great
Western Railway
Tuesday,
August 10,
at 11 o’clock.
Supply of 1,000,000 Wrought
Iron Spikes, Permanent Way
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Ballina
Tueslay,
August 31,
at 11 o'clock.
Supply of 176,000 Sleepers,
Kailway Forb«sto Wllcannia
Tuesday,
September 14,
at 11 o’clock.
W. J. LYNF.
THEATRICAL PRINTING.
'UST RECEIVED, per s.B. Mariposa. SHIP-
MENT of AMERICAN PICTORIALS, suit-
able for Variety. MiDstrel, Circus Shows. Also,
ot SPECIALITIES, including MiogetP, Giants,
Pat Women, Ventriloquism, Circassian WomaD,
Living Skeletons, Indians, Chinese, Japanete,
Poultry Shows, Irish Giris and Boys, &3.
J. J. MILLER,
Theatrical Printer,
73 Little Collirs-street, East,
D. MITCHELL & CO.,
WHOLESALE GROCERS,
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS, AND
GENERAL IMPORTERS,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WE issue a price list on the first of every
month, which is forwarded gratis to store-
keepers throughout the colony, and as we import
everything direct, we are enabled to give lowest
quotations. It will be found a useful guide for
people about to start in business, as stocks can be
made up from £5O and upwards. Our New Season
Teas, ex Killarney, can be strongly recommended
for strength and flavour, more especially especially
the PARAGON MIXTURE, in packets, already
so favourably known, and which is protected
from fraud by registration.
H
A Blessing in every Family.
OLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world
where the healing virtues of these grand medi-
cines have not been recognised by thousands of
sufferers.
In all the ordinary ailments of humanity their
beneficent action is at once recognised.
Fullest directions are supplied for their use In
every disease.
IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxeord-st., London.
Purchasers should look to the Label on the
Boxes and Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford.
Street, London, they are spurious.
STOREY, NOBLE & CO.,
AUCTIONEERS,
General Commission Agents, &c M
CORAKI, RICHMOND RIVER, N.S.W,
TO ILLUSTRATED NEWSPAPER
PROPRIETORS.
A WELL-KNOWN London Artist, an exhibitor
at the Royal Academy, wishes to meet with
an Engagement on a good Australian Illustrated
paper. References to London papers and publish-
ing firms.
Address, ARTIST, 11 Northumberland Terrace,
Regents Park Road, London, N.W., England.
ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS.
American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
Emom.
37 YORK STREET,
: SYDNEY.*
BFICIALLr IMFOBTXS JOB OITf OB COUNTRY USX.
THB OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY,
ja
LOWEST PRICES,
BUIDHUBUIS K
27 YORK 'STREET,
SYDNEY.
m~ BVBJRY VEHICLE GOAE4NTEED


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre ROTAi— ** Shadows of a Great
City” P. 8
Gaiety Theatre— “ Fun on the Bristol ”... ~
Alhambra— Minstrelsy, Olio, and Farce.... „
Royal Standard Theatre— “His Natural
Life ”
Academy of Music.— Federal Minstrels
Lynch Family of Bellringers—Northern Tour „
Mr. L. R. Sheweil’s “ Shadows of a Great
City” was the pieoe presented at the Sydney
Theatre Royal on Saturday last. Author and
drama are new to these latitudes, but are raid to
be well and favourably known in the land of the
Btars and Stripes. The great city referred to in
the title of the play is New York. The shadows
are the troubles which beset a mother and
daughter. The title does not fit closely. As in the
drama of "’The Crimes of Paris,” with which the
play has some features in common, it suggests
more than is realised. Annie Standish marries
against her father’s will. Her husband dies and
leaves her destitute. With her baby, she 1s sent to
a gaol hospital. Her father at last, dying, be-
queaths his wealth to her, and makes one George
Benson her guardian. She dies. BensoD, through
a pawnbroker and a gaol-bird, seeks to have the
baby destroyed. An honest fellow, Tom Cooper,
throws the gaol-bird into the bay and saves the
child. When the child grows up. Benson tries to
win her hand, but the honest fellow again inter-
poses and marries her. The gaol-bird informs on
the pawnbroker and Benson, and the pair of vil-
lains come in for their dessert.
* * *
Mit s Agnes Thomas played the dual part
of Annie and Helen Standisn. Her visit to the
Sawnbroker’s was g painful piece of acting. She
as great eyes for dying with, or looking unwell
with, or being destitute with. But it is one thing
to set about dying in the beginning of a drama,
before anyone has eome to care about the person,
and another to die at the end when everybody is
interested. Everyone is sorry when Antoinette,
in the play of that name, dies, but no one is sorry
for Vladimir. Wnile dying as Annie Standish, Miss
Thomas was, therefore, an irfliotion, necessary
for ulterior purposes, as dying no doubt always is,
but possessing no claim on any special sympathy.
Hence her work was hard. 11 was a relief for her
to arise again as the full-grown daughter of her
dead first part. Her cheeks were no w red and her
movements elastic. We have not seen Miss
Thomas every time she has appeared on the stage,
the last character we remember her taking
being that of Anne Chute in Bouoioault’s “Colleen
Bawn.” But then, as now, she looked to be a little
out of the atmosphere of her work. Her abilities
are manifest, but though she labours studiously,
she carries an appearance of disaisociation from
those around her.
* * *
Mr. Anson and Mr. Philip Book were the
villains. The one was Abe Nathan, a Jewish
pawnbroker, and the other George Benson, an
indigent and unscrupulous gambler. Both charac-
ters were well played, but neither was strong.
Mr. Beck was the weak copy of himself as the
Viscomte de Vismes, the part in whloh he first
appeared on his arrival in Sydney. Probably
Merritt made De Vismes like Sheweil’s Benson,
or vice versa. Only that Jim Farren was in part a
fool he might be called a villain also. This charac-
ter was taken by Mr. J. C. Williamson. Mr.
Williamson deserves to have great thiDgs ex-
pected from him. He possesses the enviable
privilege of having the choosing of his play and
the choosing of his part. More than average suc-
cess is therefore looked for. In this case the
result is not striking. While Jim Farren is a fool
he is amusing. Years of gaol life destroy the
folly but put nothing interesting instead. He
is in and out throughout the play, as the
instrument for clearing up difficulties, tut
as conceived or as acted he was hot worth
the / powder spent on him. Mias Maggie
Moore placed Biddy Ronan well in front. Fine
abilities were liberally given to the making-
up of-the talkative, audacious, aud kind-hearted
Ir!sh'*boathouse-woman. Something nearly real
wastoroduced. But it was far from being the size
of the actress. Miss Moore's best qualities were
not wanted in it.
* * •
There is a good deal of variety in this new
play. It abounds in incident. It developes some
navel situations. It allows the introduction of
an exquisite panoramic' 1 view cf the harbour of
Netf York. But it wants firm coherence. It is
destitute of vivid power. Little in it appeals to
the imagination. Little in it lays siege to the
emotions. It taps no new source of thought. It
directs to'no new line of speculation. It is a dra-
matic medioority splendidly staged and excellently
acted.
* * *
Owing to an unexpected combination of
circumstances, we arrived at the Sydney Princess
at an unusually early hour on Monday evening,
and were therefore compelled to seek amusement
in studying the drop-soene-a combination of
light and shade which was apparently painted by
a naked artist of considerable genius shortly
before the discavery of Australia. On the left
this gentleman has depicted G. A. Sala’s famous
London mjhsion and a large raw cabbage, while
the right is occupied by a quartz reer which looks
as if it woHld pay better than Kimberley. In the
middle distance appears the rising suburb of
Woolioomooloo, and the back ground is oc-
cupied by Mount Sinai and a blue ditch. A
group of figures lends animation to the scene.
Tne most prominent of the party is Balaam riding
a cab-horse, while Bir Henry Parkes, dressed in a
red waistcoat and with his trousers rolled up to his
knees, is coming up behind and asking for his vote
on the Orange ticket at next election. One or two
prominent members of the N.S.W. Opposition,
attired in Hebrew football costumes, are sitting
on the gable-end of a briok by the roadside, and a
thin Privy Councillor, covered with red dust, ob-
trusively exposes his legs at the rear of the gor-
geous caravan.
* * *
The performance of the Buffalo minstrels
was not an unusually long one, but we wished we
were dead several times before it was completed
This was solely owing to the witticisms of the cor-
ner men, most of their j okes being overgrown with
a literary fungus which betrayed their extreme
old age. As is usual with this company, the skele-
ton of the remote Moses was dug up and a shiny
nigger perched himself on the prophet’s tomb-
stone and defiled his grave with Boeotian puns
regard!’ g the hair which he wore in the wilder-
ness. The “Old Folks’ Jubilee,” too, was merely
the funeral of a decomposed comedy,(but the ting-
ing was good throughout, and served to show
thait life is not all bald-headed woe. Mr. Fred
Turner signalised his first appearance by giving
“A Light in the Window,” and his light was so
extensive that it might have been mistaken for
the eruption of a glazed volcano. Finally the
“Gaffers of the Gang” brought down the house,
and concluded an entertainment which for re al
amusement is decidedly better than getting drunk
and spending the night among devils and assorted
snakes in the lock-up.
** * *
“His Natural Life,” at the Sydney Royal
Standard, is shortly to die a natural deatb, and in
a few days the convicts will fold up their tents
and steal away. During the present week Gabbett
still continues to eat his fellow-creatures as be-
fore, but he is no doubt getting tired of a diet of
hashed Smith or stewed Jenkins, and will be glad
to put away his cannibal billy and return to the
habits of civilisation. So far, however, the pieoe
shows little sign of waning popularity, and the
only complaint we have yet heard came from
three diminutive dudelets in the dress-circle,
whese oombined brains seemed about equal to
those of one weak-minded bank-clerk. Each of
tire trio was pining away in the centre of
a lonely Sahara of collar, and they looked
out at the stage from the middle of this
linen wilderness like a sphinx with an em-
balmed eyeglass glaring aoross the Egyptian
sands. At last, however, a voice issued from
the centre of the starched desert, and said theffe
memorable words —“By Jove, these oonvict fel-
lahs are awful vulgab,” and with that the party
retired. It must be admitted, in justification of
ttfeir wrath, that such a piece as “ His Nature.
Life,” is rather rough on our leading aristocrats.
A family, which traces its origin from remote an-
tiquity, has generally a hereditary spectre of some
kind to roam through its ancestral halls, but a
banshee in yellow knee-breecheaffud striped stock-
ings, who remarks in hollow accents, “ A werry
good thing, teo,” or a goblin murderer, Who is tied
up in the cellar at midnight, and flogged by a spirit
warder armed with the ghost of a worn-out
“cat,’must be a very distressing piece of pro-
perty to own. Probably it was some such reflec-
tion as this which grieved the three collars, and
made them retire in sorrow.
* # * *
At Sydney Opera House “The Private
Secretary” continues to draw well, though that
persecuted man complains nightly that he js "so
awfully hungry.” His bath-bun is confiscated
with unfailing regularity by his imaginary uncle,
his bottle of milk is degenerating into butter and
slush, aHd he is biffed on the head whenever he
attempts to get a surreptitious bite at his stale
orange; so, it would appear that the lot of a secre-
tary in a good old English family is not a very
cheerful one. The only change worth noting is in
Mr. Sydney Gibson, who appears to get more
inebriated and more “ hambitious” every evening,
and there seems every probability that the un-
happy tailor will pass away to a better land amid a
halo of alligators and blue snakes, unless he're-
forms his ways. We would be muoh obliged to
Mr. Gibson, by trhe bye, if he would send a'long the
new suit we ordered from him a week ago; punc-
tuality in this matter will go a long way towards
redeeming his character for steadiness and so-
briety.
• * * #
The Federal Minstrels, at Sydney Aca-
demy, have not improved matters much by taking
off “Castor Oil,” but, on the other hand, there is a
certain gratification in noting that the picture of
N.B.W. dispensing porous-plasters to the Ly-ee-
Moon has also disappeared and will trouble the
sons of man no longer. The singing is as good as
usual, and the jokes are hardly bad enough to
lead a coroner’s jury to return a verdict of justifi-
able homicide, but the strongest point in the
entertainment is a burlesque on the society drama
“Clothilda.” This piece presents a striking re-
semblance to the “Corsican Brothers,” but the
twins have been slit down the back and only one
half of the pair is present. Clothiide, the heroine,
is an artless cow-nigger, who plays with the cat's-
tail (and makes the negro pussy yowl behind the
sdenes until an avalanche of Ethiopian sorrow
descends upon her and rends her innocent
heart asunder. She is engaged to Victor, a
sleek and shiny Afrioan, but just before her
wedding-day, an evil genius turns up in the shape
of a former husband, a vengeful black Italian,
with an episcopal hat and a tragio glare in Ms wall
eye, whom Clothiide had married while unuer the
controlling influence of drink. The scene of re-
crimination that ensues brings the heroine to
suoh a state of prostration th&t she has to be re-
vived with beer, and leads the servant with the
patched trousers to faint ssven times. Finally,
the lover and the husbaad meet with swords in
the midst of a snowstorm, and having taken off
eight coats and three waistcoats, they fight a duel,
which ends fatally for the former. The black
Italian afterwards kills bis wife and her sister, his
father-in-law, the two seconds, and the surgeon,
and stands about in a careless attitude, looking
at the pile of corpses, till an indignant Providence
throws a bit zing wooden thunderbolt at his head.
This weapon misses its mark, but the Corsican
twin gazes thoughtfully at it for five minutes,
and then, suddenly comprehending that it was
meant for him, dies standing, and is turned into a
pillar of blaoklng as a warning and an example to
nis fellow sinners.
* * * *
The Widow O’Brien, at Sydney Gaiety, is
fast attaining the age of a burlesque fossil, but
the good lady will continue to excite the laughter
of her friends even after she takes her place
among the petrified Irishwomen of the past. Her
18st. of solid brogue and beauty now receive ad-
ditional support from the presence of Mr. Dudley
Reid, the English cartoonist, and Mr. Arthur *
Gordon, a remarkably clever mimic, while one or
two comic sketches help to keep things moviDg.
Mr. Reid promises to be a favourite, being able to
draw anything from a buliock-dray down to an
inference or a cook on the shortest notice, and
he can make notes and amusing remarks at the
same time. Life] is too short to permit of
our doing full justioe to the entertainment, hut
unless prevented by sudden death we will endea-
vour to give Mr. Sheiidan’s company a more ex-
tended notice on some future occasion.
« • « *
The frescoed walls of Sydney Alhambra
i look down nightly on the teeming myriad forms
of human mould which gather within those pre-
cincts adorned with the Thespian art and sancti-
fied by song. This is our picturesque way of say-
ing that no matter how many Salvation Army
meetings or dog-fights may be going on outside,
the Alhambra is always well filled. The pro-
gramme is an olla podrida of all the sentiments
and emotions, terminating with a farce inlwhieh a
stage club, and something to sit Irpon, are con-
spicuously prominent, Millions in It,”
is the name of this morceaji, and, as Frank Smith
gazes upon the assembled chorus, he gratefully
murmurs the same thing of the theatre— 4 ' There’s
millionS’in it.”
* * * ®
Even without taking any notice of the
Sydney churches, there are lots of worse places of
amusement in the city than Cottier’s “ Pops” at
the Protestant Hall These are run with unfailing
regularity every Saturday and Monday sight, and
the show is such as to roll a buoyant billow of
blest oblivion over the soul-rending sorrows of a
wearying world. The cheapness of the tariff is
not the most notable feature of the entertainment,
and there is neither word nor gesture uttered or
expressed which would b:ing the blush ol buffeted
modesty to the cheek of the sensitive school-girl.
***
“A Mad Marriage,” written by Frank
Harvey, and now beiDg played at Brisbane by Mr.
W. J. Holloway's company, gets notices redolent
of oleomargarine from the local critics. Essie
Jenyns, Nita Steele, Alice Deorwyn, and Marian
Morris are all in the cast, so we with cynical sus-
picion attribute a lot of the eulogy to their ador-
able presence.
The result of the efforts of the Sydtiey
theatrical amateurs in the cause of the Ly-ee-Moon
fund was £ll3lls. 3d. After paying £2O for the
Gaiety Theatre, and £l5 to Mr. B. N. Jones for
supervising rehearsals, the net amount is £77113.
3d.
##*
Those talented performers who are Sum-
meifield young men in the daytime, but emerge
into the full glory of Devenport Minstrels upon
completion of the vespernal meal, slung a big
supply of their musical and histrionic stock upon
the stage-counter for public approval on Thurs-
day night. Things went on as though made to
order, and the business was nicely fitted to tie
performers. We always thought there was the
inspiration of heroism in kid gloves at Is. 9d., and
the pathos of poetry in pants.
***
Sir Henry Loch and the members of the
Ministry went to Melbourne Royal last week to
see “ His Natural Life.” This was a delicate mark
of respect for Lord Rosebery’s judgment in
literary matters. When he visited Australis,
Rosebery "took up ” the memory of poor Marcus
Clarke, and since then, the dead author has found
dozens of professing admirers in men who sneered
at him in life. Not but what there have been
members of Victorian Ministries with some ex-
cuse for tabooing “ His Natural Life,” and sena-
tors whom wild horses couldn’t drag to a repre-
sentation of the play. The work is altogether too
historical to please their families. It is only fairly
due to the Gilliea-Dsakin crowd to say that they
looked on the convict# without flinching, or turn-
ing a hair. Neither did(the Governor betray aay
symptoms of suppressed emotion. As for the
gallery boys, they had learned to love Gabbett like
a father.
# ■» * *
Mr. Walter Henry Wallace, the haeter—
just now of the Melbourne Opera House—appears
to be even better fun “ off than he iff on the
stage. The other night he was strolling quietly
home, about 3 30 a m., rehearsing a part in a minor
key, and emphasising the points with an umbrella.
This led to an altercation with a matter-of-fact
myrmidon of the law. The policeman said: “ Get
along home,” and then somebody fell down. It
was Wallace. With the dauntless courago of a
stage hero, he announced his intention of taking
the policeman’s number. “ Kill me if you will,”
says Wallace, " but that number shall yet be
mine.” Then the policeman walked off whistling
and the comedian set about hatching a scheme
for bringing the insulter of his honour to justioe.
Next night he went to the old spot in a disguised
voice, lured the policeman on to speak, identified
his accent, and took out a summons against him.
The peeler got 40s. for assault, and, take it alto-
gether, his fun was cheap at the price. One of
Wallace’s speeches at the watchhouse had a true
Shakesperian ring. “Dog, how darst thou stand
’twixt me and liberty ? ”
*m m m
A very successful oonoert was given on
Monday night in the Sydney Masonic Hall by
Adolph J. Friedman and other well-known artists.
Among the pieces rendered were “ De Provenza,”
“ Medje,” “ The Pilgrim,” Liszt’s 2nd Polonaise,
and a number of others.
***
Bert. Willison writes us from Batavia, as-
suring all whom it may concern that the Equesour-
rioulum is doing superfine business in those sun-
stricken regions. The company will return to
Sydney about Oct. 1, with several new animals,
including monkeys, tigers, and a band of Javanese
performers. The show, with its Sydney accessions,
will then be known as Fryer, Gayland, and Fitz-
gerald's Cirque, Museum, and Menagerie—which
name should alone be suifleient to captivate the
dollars of the million.
** * *
The “ Silver King” company are doing a
good business at Charters Towers (Q.), and Thady
O'Kane, of the Northern Miner, has taken the
opportunity to drive a long nail Into the drama
and hang one of his peculiar sermons thereon,
“ The ohief moral of the pieoe,” he says, "is that
a fellow should never get so tight as not to know
what he is doing,” and then Jater on he adds,
“ Foggon and the other sauftlebusters ought to go
and learn a lesson.” As Foggon is a gentleman who
makes his living by preaching and otherwise
knocking the perdition out of the scripture, this
is rather rough, and a little—j ust a little—personal
»9 • «
As chorus girls when they first appear in
the claesio attire are prone to aot upon a very
natural impulse and bend forward in a style which
has nothing of the piotureeque managers have
come to the rescue of art, and now the debutantes
are said to wear another very tight, strong, and ab-
breviated pair underneath the other ones. This is
called a “ booster ” and prevents distressed beauty
from appearirg in shape like unto an inebriated
note of interrogation. The idea was probably
suggested by the error of a young mother who
made her boy’s pants without any rearward slack,
and then had the gratification of seeing him
boosted over whenever he tried to pick up any-
thing.
** * *
Walter Reynolds is playing a pieoe of his
own. “A Mother’s Sin,” at the Alexandra,
Sheffield, Bag. It is taking very well, and the
critics says that as a literary production it is a cut
above the plays that are not quite so good as it is,
that is, the big majority of its olass.
•• • •
The Wanderers, comprising Messrs. George
M. Fox, Austin Power, and Miss Blanche Rivers,
were playing to moderate biz. at Batavia on June
llth. They go thence to India “ Mr. Tyrrell’s”
version of “ His Natural Life ” will shortly be
produced at London Adelphi — The only daughter
of the late Paul Bedford is destitute in London....
Mary Anderson visits England again in six months.
Alice Dunning Lingard (now known as “ Sister
Mary ” Lingard) is at last “ coining money,” and
was at latest at Brighton (Eng.) Theatre Royal
Miss Anderson, the beautiful, when she oompleted
her engagement lately in ’Frisco, found she had
netted £5200, making £4OO the first night. And yet
the idiot who wrote the plays she acted only made
£l2OO in 24 y ears 1... .Although Gilbert considered
“ Gretchen ” his masterpiece.it was a comparative
failure when first produced. It has been revived
lately by Miss Fortescue, in Ireland and the pro-
vinces, with unbounded success. “Gumboil’s”
old flame has also been playing Frou-frou in
“seven of the most glorious frocks ever seen on
the British stage.” Probably her sucoess is due
rather to her dressmaker and her “ breach of pro-
mise” notoriety than to the quality of her acting.
.... Professor C. Keimers, of tUe Zerbini Quartette,
denies that he is a spiritualist, but still confesses
to the possession of inspiration. “Deluded babes
of intellect” is his eloquent description of
spiritualists of the best known order.
On dit that it is intended to start a new
cricket club, in Sydney, which will include most
of the prominent members of the Carlton and
Warwick clubs.
The detectives, having been so far foiled
in their eiforts to root out the truth about the
North Harbour (N.S.W) mystery, Professor
Proud, thought-reader, is going to try what he can
do. At present we are inclined to back the
mystery for all we are worth.
There must have been something exquis-
itely touching about the performance at the
opening of the “ Colinderies,” if we may judge
from the reports in the “ loyal” English press.
The great feature of the ceremony, of course, was
Mrs V. Guelph, Defender of the Faith, who was
present in state, and to whom Wales handed an
address prepared for the occasion. Victoria, how-
ever, merely looked at the document and then
threw it back, telling her son to read the infernal
thing himself, or words to that effect, and Wales,
having caught the flying scroll in mid-air, read it
accordingly, in his usual gutteral Saxe-Coburg
English. Nobody male out numb of the preamble,
but it was understood to contain a brief resume of
Britain’s greatness, for several times when Wales
stopped to get his second wind the Queen was
heard to say ‘‘Them’s my sentiments. ’ Towards
the end, however, it appeared as if trouble was
likely to ensue, for the prince had put in a remark
about the Cappadocian pig-butcher who is now
supposed to be eating pork pies on the
steps of the throne up above and guarding the
sacred destines of the Empire, and at this point
the Queen remarked audibly that Brown would
have made much the better saint of the two.
Wales stopped reading with a kind of groan, and
told his mamma that saints did not wear kilts or
show off their legs as the Gillie used to do> to
which Her Majesty retorted sharply that she be-
lieved the most of them were so skinny about the
extremities that they dare not aopear in Highland
costume. In sheer despair the Prince then turned
to Lord Salisbury and asked if he could not bring
in a Bill in the Lords for the total abolition of
Brown. He did not object, be said, to the Queen
canonising Brown’s legs, but she would insist on
paying similar respect to the whole of his carcase.
Lord Salisbury diplomatically promised to think
over the matter, and Wales hurried through the
rest of the address to avoid further interruptior.
Then the Q ueen rose, and extending her arms
solemly feather-bedded herself on to the Prince
and looked over his shoulder after the manner of
a stage-embrace. Edward the 7th-that is to say,
Albert the First - tottered two or three times as
his mother came against him, and when Her
Majesty retired he was carried out insensible by
two dukes and the parish beadle, while the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury prayed in the background,
and the ceremony of openiDg the Colonial and
Indian Exhibition came to an end.
TJKADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMS
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
warehousemen,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS,
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY :
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
ﬂIWﬂW'mm'gﬁm‘i‘m V
yum 31$ 55.;- ,
,4» .‘.
3 ' 3
WW :1
I“ ‘ W
M '0“. ‘1
Umm '11 p 1,“!
”a". Ulﬂlor...lllmlllﬂlll' W
X*o PIANOFORTE,
dbOO guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable,
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brilliant
tone, in handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMI ORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Coiv
nell-strcet.
" ‘ ”W
.Al “kW.“
. ‘L. 3 ._ ﬂl‘wk
”J ...-:1 L. , “FT—+1;
‘L. - h 1‘ y“ "V
‘ p _ n
Austrian chairs
in Great VARIETY 3
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB,
Spring and O’Connell
streets. >,
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—a very complete
Assortment, just opened, many quite new
designs. !
FFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,'
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb.
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match,
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet,
WALNUT TELESCOPE DINING TABLES,
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
jig—iii".
1 ; ‘
.4365 [55m [in
W
l ‘ ‘ ”age,
11 L: a my”
,=~:€L
@‘IWLE; an
5“ gig-“12:...
Sideboards of modern
designs and various dimen-
sions, in OAK, MAHOGANY,
WALNUT, ASH, and CEDAR.
A large selection, at all
prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
TTTALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
W VERY ELEGANT. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
"IYTOVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
JAI SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O'Connell-street.
WALL-MIRRORS and BRACKETS, novelties
in Plush and Velvets, and in all Woods,
from ss. 6d. each.
Elegant Venetian mirrors, richly
enamelled, in colours. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
r-Y
Drawing room cabi-
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
DRAWING-ROOM FURNITURE.—The latest
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured Woods. Exquisite examples are now on
view in oilr Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Manufacturers, Spring and O’Connell streets.
'fit
ml.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed,
rooms. New designs, covered to order in
any material.
fab-5
V ‘
v. .' _- “2-.
“my“ L55??? '
Bedsteads, aii sizes,
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Importers,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDDING. —All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
-,.y‘ •
SPRING MATTRASSES
Woven Wire, best
make ; also, Spiral Springs*
Price, from 14s. each.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMBf


ONE PHASE OF PROTECTION. —THE PROTECTION OP THE POLICE.
“It is an open [?]ecret that, during the last few days, the N.S.W. Colonial Treasurer and ColeLial Secretary have both received letters, threatening their lives, from persons
who, by the tenor of their epistles, are Freetraders. That to the Colonial Secretary is a particularly wild production. The writer states, inter alia, that he is tired of his
life, but before he dies he intends to skill Mr. Dibbs.- Daily. Paper.


Woman Items
In the Park. He: “I hate walking out
without an object.” She; “Ohl as to that, I
seldom go out without my husband.”
Connoisseurs say that the deterioration in
the classio lines of Mrs. Langtry’s neck and shoul-
ders is one of the indirect results of tight lacing.
At a fashionable wedding.—Mr. B.: “Poor
Clara 1 What a pity she should sell herself to that
wheezy seventy-year-old skeleton.” Mrs. R. :
“ Oh, it’s not a sale, only a lease.”
A oertain colonial lady dropped a garter
while making her obeisance to the Princess of
Wales at the recent
Drawing-room. “It,”
says a correspondent,”
was a dainty article, em-
broidered with pale-blue
forget-me-nots on a pink
ground.”
“There’s a lady,” said
the office-boy, rushing in
to GubbiDS, “wants to
speak to you.” “Is she
good-looking?” asked
Gub. “Yessir.” Gub
straightened himself up
and went out. When he
returned, he said in a
voice of wrath: “ A nice
bloomin g judge of beauty
you are.” " But I didn’t
know whether she
mightn't be your wife.”
responded the menial.
“That’s exactly what she
dashed well Is.”
She was an elderly
widow, and although she
had not had much to do
with paisons in her life,
one was now attending
her bedside. After he had
been soothing her for
some time, she said :
“Fancy, in a few hours
I shall be in Lazarus’
bosom.” He of the black
coat corrected her mildly:
“In Abraham’s bosom,
you mean.” Whereupon
she replied : " Well, it
don’t much matter which
—if you had been a
widow for 15 years you
wouldn’t be so mighty
partickler.”
An English paper
puts it thus :—“ Before
her marriage Princess
Beatrioe was much more
constant in well-doing
than she is now. a distaste
for district-viti i g and
Other similar godly occu-
pations having appar-
ently followed upon a
life of counubiality. In-
deed, a general spirit of
inactivity has lately
gken hold of Her Royal
ighness, as those who
are nearest her can
testify. If w e were writ-
lag of any woman but a
member of the Royal
Family, we should un-
hesitatingly say Bhe was
fetting lazy. How lar
rince Henry is to blame
for this change we are
not in a position to say.
As Germans are credited
with calculating the
value of a wife by her
weight, he may have for-
bidden any excessive ac-
tivity, as beißg likely i o
reduce the Princess’s
bulk, and consequently
her worth in his eyes.”
The Queen reoently
approved of the follow-
ing drawing-room regu-
lation, among others, for
the guidance of ladies
about to be presented :
“ High square-cut gowns
cannot be considered ‘1 ull
#ress,’ and are net ad-
mitted at Court. In esses
of delicate health, her
Majesty is pleased to dis-
pense with the full regu-
lation, in which case
ladies must apply for her
Majesty's permission
through the Lord Cham-
berlain. This application
must always be accom-
panied by a medical cer-
tifleate.” If the Sovereign
were a male, we could
understand and condone
this compulsory strip-
ping. To men’s eyes un-
covered loveliness is
naturally not unpieasir g.
But a woman can have
no delight in viewing the
PB ®P B P Dd shoulders of
some hundreds of her
own sex. Is it possible that
her Majesty insists upon
me ladies baring them-
selves, solely that her
sons and sons-in-law wi o
a P a . r t°f her entourage on such occasions,
may least their eyes ?
Sir fcalmon Wilson, it would appear, now
consorts with hardly anyone lower in “ rank” than
a lord. How gorgeous is this announcement, from
a London paper“A very pretty dance was given
■ Laciy Wilson, at the family mansion
a h quar ®', Her ladyship was attired in
ore™-, rG se-pmk satin, trimmed with pink
> ornaments, diamonds. The Misses Wilson
in silk and Brussels net
, aGaG | a I Countess Howe wore grey
?nnhcP^? < vMu atll ?’ skirt edged with a wide
both colours, and the front trimmed
nf soft thG Ladies Cuizon, simple dresses
trimmed ™Sh Sl Wlth P ream ] ace insertion, and
™ rf 1D m 9 lre » Viscountess Galway's
w)tif poted of Pink and green brocade,
of gr< ; en velvet, the front draped with
crystal embioidered lace; Lady Sey-
whfch oEi rffd of , deep rose piok silk, over
satiii d i eßS * of .xr erj l pale P lnk broche
b«l uj t on aigrette of the deeoer sharia f ah-
-Bieikeitrimmedwn\ithieikeitrimmedwn\ithe f l of Car y sfort . blue
red flowers*- n n^ of PJ 16 Bame col °Ui- and
covered with Gold smid, pale pink tulle,
chenille hlnP «£* ld sprays and clusters of red
tess of Btrathm a d ved feather in the hair; Coun-
velvet ovot^d™J r H n Gf grey and black broche
steel • r id £ grey satin trimmed with
Mim n™ c . heBter l. pale blue tulle and satin;
whlte tulle and pearls; Mrs.
ostNcffi ■iKS?* JK 1 ® tpUe , trimmed’with
Howard of Glossop, pale grey tulle sprinkled with
crystal, and satin bodice trimmed to match; Lady
Robinson, pink and grey broche satin with revers
of pink satin, and trimmed with crystal; Miss
Hughes, white trimmed with snowdrops, and
white moire sash; Lady Muriel Stuart, pale blue
gauze; Mbs Chichester, torquolse-blue silk, with
garniture of pink flowers; Miss Robinson was
dressed in white.”
A Chainman’s grievance. “Dear Bul-
letin,—l am engaged in SydDey, by a Government
surveyor, ts chainmaD, at £1 per week and my
food. I find that the Government daily allow-
ance for each chain man is ss. 3d., Le., 365. 9d. per
week. Of this, I receive £1 in cash, and am
charged 16s. 9d. for food which, honestly speaking,
is not worth a cent more than 83. (it consists of
bread, meat, tea, and an alleged pudding thrown
in occasionally), so that we—l and the other man
in camp-conclude that our employer unjustly
makes out of us Bs. 9d. per week per man. It
seems to me, that even if our food be put down
at the extravagant value of 103. per week each,
we should be paid the balance between the total,
£1 10a., and the £1 16s. 9d. allowed by Govern-
ment. At the end of the month, blank voucheis
are handed us to sign; we sign for ss. 3d. per day,
but, as I have explained, only get in cash a frac-
tion over 3s. 10d. per day. Is this the fair thing—
and is it permitted by “ the office ? ” Is not our
employer “ haviDg ” either us pot r devils or the
Government of his bleeding country ?-Yours,
truly,—A Chainman.
Thanks in the Wrong Place.
(A Fact.)
DRUMMER SMITH (of Wolloomooloo): “YES, MY FRIENDS, I USED TO BE A GREAT DRUNKARD IT WAS NO GOOD ME FAKIN’ THE
PLEDGE. I BROKE IT DOZENS O’ TIMES. AT LAST, THANK GOD, ONE DAY WHEN I WAS VERY DRUNK, I SET ON TO A
POLICEMAN, AND NEAR KILLED HIM. THEN I GOT FIVE YEARS, AND WHEN I WAS IN GAOL I FOUND THE LORD.
HALLELUJAH!”
A good many Australians seem to be still
clinging desperately to the hope that “Wales” may,
after all, import his duty-free anatomy here next
year, and they are already growing loyal carrots
and Imperial beans to weave into triumphal arches
over his head. The Mayor of Adelaide is one of
the most earnest of those who await the tread of
the royal goloshes upon colonial soil, and he is still
frantically writing letters to similar officials all
over Australia asking them to get up an excite-
ment on the subject. Among others, he has
routed up the general storekeeper who greases the
municipal wheels at Rockhampton (Q.), and has
apparently convinced that misguided man that
H.R.H. will visit his dreary pumpkin-flat so that
it is necessary to prepare a welcome. Accordingly
the Council called upon the town-surveyor to
furnish plans, specifications, and estimates for a
“ burst of enthusiastic loyalty,” a “cordial recep-
tion,” and an “ expression of heartfelt devotion,”
respectively. The harassed official sent in his
figures at last meeting, and, after some discussion,
it was resolved to have the “burst” as being the
more elegant of the three, and it is now being pre-
pared accordingly.
At Cooktown (Q.), a dinner was recently
given in honour of the arrival of H.M. schooner
Lark. The hungry crowd formed themselves into
a mutual admiration society, and each one got up
to tell the rest what gallant heroes they aM were.
?5P ep i, however, informs us that the
guests, while thoroughly enjoying themselves
with the natural abandon of their class, never
outraged Me bounds of civility or propriety.” It
.‘Pat the general custom at a Cooktown
4 18 * or f verybody to get drunk, to bonnet
* rman ' T? ec k the furniture and gas fittings,
*£l* wo or three peaceful citizens on the plea
that they are Russian spies and, in short, to turn
Cooktown upside down and put a brick on top of
it, and then go home in wheelbarrows. But these
days must be passing away when a banquet has
gone off without anything being outraged.
It is very sad that the Sydney D.T. cannot
get a single political idol that is good for more
than a month's adoration, or a political demon to
denounce for more tban a like period, but such,
alas I is the lamentable fact. Pro ection was once
a thing which this delirious daily offered sacrifice
unto, but there came an end to this worship, and,
strangely enough, Protection grew ar d waxed
mighty as soon as the D T. lifted up an indignant
voice against it. And so with Sir Henry Parkes.
He has bf en alternately blasphemed and applauded,
and his popularity has waxed and waned just in
inverse ratio to the commendation of the King-
street oracle. Likewise the Speaker, Mr. Barton.
Only a very short time since the Telegraph cried
out, 1 Ecce Homo! behold the coming Premier I ’
But he didn’t come, he just stayed where he was.
And now the organ or hysterics has discovered
that the idol is a very bad lot, indeed, politically
speaking. He evinces, the Daily Shhiek asserts,
“a tendency to stietch and strain to breakffig-
point the powers of the House over individual
members and over minorities.” and by his late
action has closed his career as Speaker. That any
decision from the chair should have been against
the minority, which the D.T. ;now loves, is quite
sufficient to account for the jeremiad against Mr.
Barton. The present idols of the Telegraph are
the venerable but not much venerated Parkes, the
masher Neild with his everlasting “mag,” the
Ponetik Frawnsis, who is an Orangeman first and
anything that’s going afterwards, and the rest of
the senseless obstruction orators—these be the
D.T. gods now, and all who do not fall down and
worship them are to be utterly detroyed. We are
really sorry for the poor little paper. It has gone
so far as to call upon A. ft. Taylor to come and
help the oppressed minority, but AG. knows
better. His convictions are with the other side,
and he knows also that a single leader in favour
of any man, any cause, or any party, is quite
sufficient to blast any prospects of success that
there may previously have been. The political
death-warrant is signed when that ill-omened
paper breaks forth into praise of anything. If the
D.T. really wants to retain the bastard system of
Freetrade until lately in vogue here, it should
commend Sir Patrick and support Protection.
One leader on such lines would leave the Premier
with a sad and sorry following; a second would
squelch Protection utterly: and a third one, cover-
ing Sir Henry Parkes with abuse as with a gar-
ment, woqld bring him back to the Treasury
benches in triumph. Here is a magnificent oppor-
tunity for the Telegraph to exhibit its much-
vaunted patriotism. If our hint is taken. Sir
Patrick and the ad valorem duties will go down to
one common destruction.
THIS WICKED WORLD.
Thus Vanity Fair:—“Lord Binning,
Royal Horse Guards, was said lately to be likely
to proceed to Sydney to join the staff of Lord
Carington’s aides-de-camp. The ’ idea • has now
been abandoned, I believe.” Hallelujah!
“It seems,” says an English paper, “that
charm of fa«e and figure must no loDger
be sought among the aristocracy of the
land. Our duchesses (at least, many of them) are
parchment-skinned and beny, < r else loaded with
coarse, shaking fat; and numbers of the younger
women have complexions that have been early
spoilt by high feeding.” —Cipt. Geo. Warwiok
Hunt, who was one of those who rode into the
“ Valley of Death ” in the Balaclava charge, has
just got married in England! Mrs. Griffiths, of
Llanelly, Wales, who has just died, aged 103. had
smoked nearly all through her protracted life
Holloway, brother of defunot Pills and Ointment
Holloway, has been made a baronet “ because he
had a charitable brother.”... The House of Com-
mons is, we read, now-a days, sometimes "literally
driven from its legislation chamber by the poison-
ous mephitic atmosphere which prevails therein.”
Suggestive that this news should arrive ooinci-
dently with the return of a couple of Aus-
tralian Tories to “ the first club in the world.”
Ruskin’s patronage was reoently solicited for the
Church of England Funeral Reform Association.
He wrote to the secretary:-" Sir,—l entirely ap-
prove of the object of the Funeral Reform Asso-
elation, but if I could
step people from wasting
their money while they
wire alive, they might
bury themselves how
they lihed for aught I
care.- Faithfully j ours,
John Buskin.’. A
Fruitless Errand : Visit-
ing a neighbour’s orchard
and meeting a watch-dog
A lot of the Indians
at the Indo-Colonial Ex-
hibition havir g discov-
ered in a lumbei-yard a
gilded statue of •* Albert
the Good,” regularly
every morning repair to
it to perform “poojah”
- i.e., pray before it
Vanity Fair hears that
“ there will be another
Queen’s drawing - room
this year for the speeial
benefit of the colonists
now in England.” What
idiot ever thought for an
instant that the •* colon-
ists” would be satisfied
with one grovel per an-
num 1.... There is some-
thing delightfully simple,
if a little matter of fact,
about President Cleve-
land’s wedding invita-
tions. “lamto be mar-
ried on Wednesday even-
ing at 7 o'clock.” He
couldn't have been
briefer had he been going
to be hanged The
Prince of Wales, not con-
tent with publicly shak-
ing hands wilfc the dis-
solute Duke of ' Marl-
borough, is still doing his
level best to whitewash
Valentine Baker and
bring about his rein-
statement. And yet only
last week Parkes was ap-
plauded when at the
Orange meeting he spoke
of ** the British throne,
which was based, as it
now exists, on truth and
justice, and girded bv
an atmosphere of purity.”
Le us hold our Doses
A groom, married to a
rich lady, was in constant
trepidation of being ridi-
culed by the guests of his
new home. An Oxford
clergyman gave him this
adviee : “ Wear a black
aoat and bold your
tongue.”... .The mummy
of Baineses 11., has been
found in Egypt... At the
marriage of the Portu-
guese Crown Prince, the
bridegroom in his happi-
ness evidently did not
know whether he was on
his head or his heels, and
blunderingly got into the
bridal coach before his
newly - made wife, and
had to haul her in after
him... Louis Biel’s widow
has died of grief Mrs.
Bartlett, of poisoning-
case celebrity, has en-
tered a convent Kev.
Fleming has been boy-
cotted in Kerry. He was
compelled to procure
food from a distance of
60 miles, and the “ local
band” deliberately played
within 50 yards of the spot
where Mrs. Fleming lay
on her death-bed, and her
husband, subsequently,
was “compelled to send
40 miles for a coffin and
hearse, and was obliged
to remove her remains
into another county for
burial.” Mr. Fleming had
evicted a tenant Mrs.
Brown (indignantly):
“Get up again, Johnny,
and say your prayers ;
you must not go to bed
like a beast.” Little
Johnny (coiling himself
up comfortably in bed):
“That’s all right, then,
ma; it's only the beasts
that prey, you know.”
....Mrs. Langtry says that
after her approaching
American tour she will
really visit Australia
Madame Janausheck,who
visited Australia a few years ago, has come
to the conclusion that life is not worth
living without love. An American paper
alleges that she recently said: “ ‘ Some peeblessay
dot you can buy lofe with monee, und dot monee
will bring happiness. If I had married for lofe I
would now be a peasant’s wife buttering bread for
mine children, and would have been happy. In-
stead of dot I married a count und am an actress,
und I haf no happiness—only wanting dot I may
die.’ ” Kaiser Wilhelm is now breaking down
rapidly.... There has just died in’Frisco one Gor-
don Bonaparte, a son of the great Napoleon I. His
mother, an Englishwoman, was sent to the prison
at St. Helena as housekeeper to the Emperor, and
there the son in question was born. He re-
sembled his father in a remarkable degree The
other day at a charitable fancy fair in Paris, a
favourite actress bartered her kisses for solid
gold I The “ Dame aux Camellias” had, in fact, a
certain tariff for her merchandise. You could, for
instance, smack ber on either cheek for 10 louis,
or on both for 30 ; but 40 louis were exacted
from you for pressing your lips to hers
A London Professor announces that bitters do not
promote digestion. Thus do our cherished de-
lusions vanish. Possibly some other authority
will arise to deny that Sydney milk is wholesome,
or J. B. Neild beautiful—At Singapore, a few
months ago, Wong Ah Foo, who was suffering
through a mistake in the identity of some blan-
kets, put in the following original plea for mercy:
“I am a bad character. I ask your lordship to
give me a flogging and a short sentence that I may
go home to my father.” And yet the brute of a
judge refused to give him the flogging he was
longing for. £


depressing the Rising Sun.
FIRST SYDNEY EDITOR: "I SAY, WHAT ARE WE GOING TO DO TO KEEP THAT SUN FROM RISING? YOU KNOW WE BOTH SAID IT WOULD NEVER SHOW UP.”
SECOND SYDNEY EDITOR: “WELL, I DON’T SEE WHAT WE CAN DO, EXCEPT PILE LEADERS ON TO IT. CAN’T GET ANYTHING HEAVIER THAN THAT, YOU KNOW.”


A Bids sin is for Both.
OLD MAN PARKES (log): "BLESS YOU, MY CHILDREN!-I AM ON YOUR SIDE. IN THE HOUR OF NEED I WILL BE YOUR FRIEND."


"How Will it End?"
“ How Wiirit End ?” by Mr. I. Reginald Cohen,
of Sydney, is not one of those novels which are
likely to be rushed by an admiring public. It
possesses many beauties and many defects, but
the beauties are mostly in the binding, while the
defects are inside. We have met Mr. Cohen on at
least one previous occasion in connection with a
sinful waste of printer’s ink, and the interest
which he aroused was chiefiy on account of his
mysterious initial. Presumably it represents the
patriarchal name of Isaac, in which case the
owner has knocked off 80 per shent of the letters
—a very liberal discount. We have read “ How
Will it End ? ” through with all possible care, but
are still unable to answer the question contained
in the title. In real life amateur authorship
generally ends in a freeze-out, or in a renewal for
three months with the indorsements of two re-
spectable householders on the back, or in a writ
of fi. fa., but Mr. Cohen’s book has really no end
at all. The story promises, like one of Mr. Neild s
speeches, to fill up tt e realms of time and space
and hang its bloated tail over their narrow
borders into the shadowy abyss of eternity.
Half the novel, too, might appear appropriately
as the “ Musings of an Evangelical Clergyman,”
or the “ Stutterings of a Blighted Jebusite,” while
the other half might have been sized up under
some such title as the “ Sallow Murderer of Sheol-
blaze Flat.” Every five minutes or so the author
takes his characters by the lobe of the ear and
backs them against a fence in order that he may
apostrophise them in some such manner as this;
"Tremble, viper Melville, for you have over-
reached yourself;” or “Woman, how dare you
think of him ?”—a style of address that reminds us
painfully of the Chinaman’s invocation to the
ghost of a departed ancestor: “ Spirit of ihy hog-
eyed grandmother, look down on me.” But these
interpolations have at least one advantage, for, in
the intervals thus afforded, the limping, splay-
footed narrative sits down to get its second wind,
and wait until the policeman returns to bid it
“ Move on.”
• * *
In another sense, too, Mr. Cohen acts the
part of the “bobby” to perfection, for when things
grow dull and spiritless he seizes some unoffend-
ing character by the neck and the slack of the
pants and runs him violently into the story where
he is expected to lean up against the gas-stove
and talk the same kind of hide-bound dictionary
which distinguishes the rest of the asylum. The
unfortunate who has picked the dry bones of a
fortnight-old newspaper, and is actually reduced
by intelle etualfamine to read “ How Will it End ? ’>
must not be surprised, therefore, when the villain
says that “In the ventilation of a subject having
any tendency t® a silly ebullition of thought or
feeling I must express profound ignorance;’
this expression is merely a burlesque—or Cohen-
esq ue—on the ancient Latin phrase, “I don’t Gare a
tinker’s ouss.” There is a fearfui sameness, how-
ever, in the dialogue, and the author’s style
is apparently made up of 30 per cent. Miss
Braddon, and 70 per cent. Hop Bitters ad-
vertisement. The cultured gentleman in the
drawing-room talks Dr. Johnson, and the de-
praved ruffian, whom we encounter on “a dig-
gings,” talks Prophet Jeremiah, but the two are so
much alike that we are inclined to think at times
it was Jeremiah who wrote the dictionary, and the
snuffy doctor who was stoned to death in Egypt,
while both prophet and doctor have evidently
been edited by Mrs. Ilalaprop. “Shall I risk the
criminal’s den 1 ” demands one mueh married lady ;
"she leaned her two hands on her chin in#deep
sjudy,” says Mr. Cohen of another female,’ and if-
he had also added that she had a bad cold, and that
she drank a tub of hot water, and bathed her
head in gruel, the sentiment would have been
complete. “He must implicate himself from his
own danger as best he could ” prespats a really
choice specimen of blighted English; so do the
sentences “our future is wound up together,”
and “ he therefore propagated the rest of his Ife
to the cancelling of the wrong he had done.”
• • •
But, unluckily, the author is not content
with getting impaled upon one language only; he
must needs spike himself upon half-a-dozen, and
they stt so heavily on his stomach that the results
are likely to be Berious. Dog-Latin and mangy
French bulge outfin all directions, like fce shirts
protruding from an over-fed portmanteau, and
when we consider the amount of knowledge Mr.
Cohen must have contained before he penned
some of these foreign items we grow apprehensive
that he will one day split down the spine from the
pressure of internal lore. Surely not even Brick-
hill’s baby would imagine that the term bonvivant
meant “ a cultured man of the world,” or accuse
his oharaeters of indulging in frivolous " bandin-
age.” The latter term is, perhaps, Woolloo-
mooioo Freneh for a bandage or a bonnet-
box er something of the kind, but it is
no pant of any civilised language except
Cohenese. In his preface, the author easts a slur
upon Australian novelists, because they delineate
“ the manners, customs, and idiosyncrasies of
bushrangers, cattle-stealers, dummies, and the
■whole family of adventurers,” but he has himself
delineated nothing-not evenParkes’ yellow pup.
He also explains that he has abstained, for special
reasons, from giving any definite location to the
scenes described, but he does not add—as he well
might—that he has mashed geography into a pulp-
and sawn latitude and longitude asunder in this
attempt at concealment. lu-the opening chapters
the reader gets doubled up by a sudden collision
with “ one of the most successful merchants in
Australia,” and an allusion to Port Jackson leads
Mm to believe the scene is laid somewhere near
Durand’s Alley, Sydney. Later on, however, he
©ernes to a baronet’s widow who owns an ancestral
•aetle a few miles away, and this palatial structure
seems to suggest that England mußt be intended,
New York, too, seems rather close at hand,
which makes the eonfusion worse confounded,
and finally the discovery of “a diggings” not
far distant drives the distracted victim to con-
clude that be is somewhere in New Guinea or
Patagonia. The baronet, who formerly owned the
©astle afore-mentioned, met his death at the chase,
and before he started on the fatal morning he
promised to bring his wife “ many brushes and
tails of bunted foxes,” so he evidently lived in a
land where foxes go in droves and wear a tail at
one end and a brush at the other.
* * *
Mr. Cohen’s work is weak in grammar,
orthography, and half-a-dozen other things, but
the plot is by far the weakest thing of all. The
entire story is working up from the very outset
to one tremendous climax, but no climax ever
comes. The whole book is an attempt to crush a
single wicked man, and he dies of heart-disease
after all. He is tolerably healthy, too, up till the
last moment, but the author evidently feels he is
not equal to the task before him, so he hastily
explains that the villain has long been suf-
fering from an incurable complaint, and then
squelches him like a wet rag, and all
that is left is a corpse lying on a sofa,
and a belltopper perched on a chair. All
through the novel Mr. Cohen takes time by the big
toe instead of by the forelock. He drags men
into difficulties, or makes them turn pale and drop
on top of the furniture, and then explains in an
aside to the reader that it is because they have
committed bigamy or murder some Zyears ago.
Mysterious women jump out from mysterious
corners and prove to be long-lost wives who have
been married oftener than is good for their health,
and Fate is kept busy throwing rocks at one or
two people, but the reader never knows the reason
why till afterwards. A separate and independent
story is gummed on to the original cataleptio
narrative, but the only connection between the
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN CARE-CURSE
MRS. BROWN (to Bridget O’Hooligan, servant at Mrs. Jones's): “I LEAVE MY OWN CARD AND TWO OF MY HUSBAND’S
CARDS, AND ONE CARD FROM MY ELDEST SON, AND TWO FROM MY GRANDMOTHER, AND THREE FROM
MY SISTER-IN-LAW. PLEASE TELL MRS. JONES THAT I’M SORRY I CAN’T LEAVE THE BABY’S CARD,
BUT I’LL SEND IT AS SOON AS HE’S CHRISTENED.”
BRIDGET: “BEGORRA, IS THAT ALL?”
two appears to be that one of the characters
in the second tale is inquiring for the ad-
dress of one of the characters in the first ;
and at length the double-barrelled novel
winds up with a few touching remarks about
death, leaving four lovers still on the loose. The
book, however, presents one gratifying feature—
it is not bound in kangaroo-skin like many recent
publications, and we are glad to note this act of
forbearance, for we hate to see a kangaroe wasted.
* * *
We had almost forgotten to mention that
the book is .dedicated to the Hon. (hon. that is in
N.S.W.) Henry E. Cohen, “ with sentiments of re-
spect and esteem.” It must be admitted, how-
ever, that to dedicate suen a book is a remarkable
mode of showing respect and esteem, and that a
dedication to so prosaic a lawyer as Hon. Henry
E. Cohen is a still more remarkable way of ensur-
ing an extensive sale for the novel. The Town
and Country Journal, too, has come to the
front with a tolerably favourable critique, and
praise from such a quarter is enough to damn any
author.
* “ How Will ic End ? ” A novel, by I. Reginald
GaSien. author of “ Stanhope,” “ Loch Ard,” &e.;
part author ©f “Give it a Name/’ Sydney:
pBWABD R. Golb, Book Arcade.
Professor Tucker, of Melbourne, is intro-
ducing a bran-new way of pronouncing Latin,
and he means to show Julius Caesar how to speak
language. One great feature in the Pro-
fessor’s style seems to he the substitution of “ w ”
for “r ” and “ v,” so that we are led to imagine
Pompey and Cato must have suffered se merely from
cold in the head, which might account for them
talking that way. Probably the old Boman dude,
like the modern Australian one, used to come home
“ corned,” and kick up no end of a shindy at his
boaraing-house, and then at breakfast, in the
morning, he would crane his neck oyer his tall
Latin collar, and ask of his next neighbour, in clas-
sical language, “ Did you heah that awful “ wow”
last night ? ”
“An Aristocratic ” Newspaper.
“PIGGING IT IN ONE ROOM”
Vanity Fair, of 29th May, says “it is glad to see
that the Whig dukes, and! other territorial mag-
nates, are beginning to realise what fools they are.
Their rage against their former idol, Gladstone,
is Inexpressibly diverting. Hartington heads a
conspiracy to pulverise it; the Duke of Argyle
knocks it off its pedestal; and even Lord Derby
musters up courage to kick the wretched image
as it rolls in the dust.” The words italicised above
let the cat clean out of the bag, and announce in
a sufficiently direct way that the “ territorial mag-
nates ’’—the great titled landed proprietors—have,
in the opinion of the fashionable Tory weekly,
abandoned Gladstone because he proposed to
burst up in Ireland a selfish and tyrannical land-
monopoly, against which the English working-
ciasses have not yet commenced to kick in earnest.
Vanity Fair goes on to say :
“ There are still about 40 Liberal trimmers who
are dark horses, and may vote either way. Ask
the waverers whether it is worth while—unless a
very substantial price is offered them—to do in-
calculable mischief both to their country and
their Party merely to gratify the vanity of their
god-Gladstone— and such a god! a god with the
appearance of an escaped lunatic, the acoent of a
Lancashire labourer, the vituperative powers of
a washerwoman, and the temper of an incarnate
fiend—who, in the natural course of things, must
shortly pass away ? When my grandfather re-
tired to another world he left me some wonderful
’3i port—the best wine I have ever drunk. Alas! I
have finished it long ago, all except two botttes.; and
these lamheeping to cheer me up on the night when
Mr. Gladstone dies. I should be extremely re-
luotant t® be guilty of the indelicacy of hurrying
Mm from any purely selfish motive. My motives
for hurrying him are patriotic as well as selfish.
But there is no harm in my mentioning that
I hear that ’34 port is losing ite colour, and
that I should be exceedingly grateful to him
if he could make it convenient to supply
me with the opportunity of drinking it. . . .
The Lunatic Asylum is really on the job this time.
The Grand Old Gladstone’s Bill is pretty certain
to be beaten, and in that case the odds are two to
®ne that he will have te be carried out of the
House of Commons in a straight-waistcoat, if he
doesn’t expire on the spot in a fit of apoplexy
brought on by senile fury. Of the two alterna-
tives, I would sooner for his sake see him take to
apoplexy, that solution of his difficulties being
both inexpensive and effectual, and certain to
keep him quiet for good. But on the other hand
he would look very pretty in a cosy, comfortable
asylum, with his eighty hats all round him, and it
would be rather fun to go and poke buns at him
through the bars on the end of an umbrella.”
Further on, the Tory pimp, Bowles, in writing of
the Deceased Wife’s Sister Bill, says :
“ Prohibition of marriage with a deceased wife’s
sister is often a great hardship on the working
classes. If a working-man is left a widower with
a family, the duty of bringing up the children in
thousands of oases devolves upon their aunt; and
if, as often happens, they are all obliged to pig it
together in one room, the aunt and the widower
probably indulge in the inward and spiritual grace
of matrimony, even if they are debarred from its
outward and visible sign.”
" Compelled to pig it in one boom I” See how
tenderly, how humanely, this lofty aristocrat talks
of the misery of the workman whose wife is dead,
and who, perchance, is forced by the greedy in-
solence of the loafing privileged classes of Great
Britain to divide a stolen turnip or a parish loaf
with his starving children in the fireless room
wherein they shiver beside the pauper coffin of
their mother! IMr. Bowles, of Vanity Fair, Is, it
is plain, steeped to Ithe lips in the idea of j the
anoien regime that the poor should he fed on straw.
Vanity Fair writes just as wrote and talked the
“nobles” of the pre-Revolutionary epoch in
France; and one of these fine mornings, if all the
life and fire has not been squeezed out of the
British proletariat, they will arise in their naked,
hungry might, not merely to wreck drapers’shops
and sack restaurants, as on the last occasior, but
todecorate every spike of Hyde Park railings with
the head of a Bowles or a bishop. We trust that
the English Radical newspapers have told the
hungry men of London not to forget, when next
they assemble a hundred thousand strong, the
building wherein sits the writer who has con-
temptuously likened them, their mothers and
their sisters and children, to pigs.
The Princes’ Book!
A LITERABY FEAST FOR POTTS POINT AND
TOORAK!
The members of the German Boyal Family which
has managed to stick to the British throne for
half-a-dozen generations, and hopes to stick there
for half-a-dozen generations more, seem to have
an insatiable mania for the fame of authorship.
The Queen set the evil example by ladling out her
trashy maunderings about “Brown’s legs,” and
her touring generally; Princess Alice (who, poor
unfortunate woman, could write a tolerably de-
cent letter) was then enthusiastically trotted out;
Princess Louise followed suit; and in an exceed-
ingly retail manner, as becomes a moneygrubber,
the Duke of Edinburgh likewise poured a measure
of his Imperial soul over dreary pages. The latest
things in royal literature are the unconsequential
speeches of the epileptic Duke of Albany, edited
by the versatile Yio. herself, and the two volumes
written by the Princes who sanctified the colonies
by their presence in 1881, “carefully edited by
the Rev. J. N. Dalton,” who accompanied them on
their trip in the capaoity of clerical nurse-girl.
There are some eloquent passages in the
book which must probably be ascribed to
Daltonian editing a work which probably
includes the writing of all but the royal
signatures. Thus, in the pages descriptive of the
visit to the West Indies, we come across stuff like
this:—“We should be less than Englishmen, less
than men, if we did not feel a thrill of pride while
sailing here. The air, yet even in clearest blaze
of sunshine, seems full of ghosts—the ghosts of
gallant sailors and soldiers. Truly here ” and
then follows that wormeaten old quotation about
“spirits of our fathers ” bobbing up from every
wave—on this occasion possibly to wonder who the-
deuce that wooden-headed, stupid-looking young
sawney in gold lace, Albert Victor, could be!'
There is a lot of unintended sarcasm about that
opening sentence. Mr. Dalton evidently forgot
for the moment that the
royal writers were not
Englishmen, but Ger-
mans, and not men—only
priggish and precocious-
youngsters. Being, there-
fore, neither English nor
men, they probably did
not feel any thrill of
pride, and as the devoted
Dalton was at hand he
probably felt it for thena-
and then wrote—that is,
they wrote, accordingly..
On the same page, the
royal diarists drift into
conundrums concerning
the misgovernment of
the West Indies:—
“ Was it for this,” they
ask, ''that these seas
were reddened with the
blood of our own fore-
fathers year after year?
Did all those gallant
souls go down to Hades
in vain, and leave nothing
for the Englishman but
the sad and proud memo-
ry of their useless val-
our ?”
No, your Royal High-
nesses, it was not. These
•‘gallant souls went down
to Hades” (nice way
this of saying that they
died), because a bump-
tious old German bully
who then sat on the throne
of England was jealous of
the power of the French
and Spanish rulers, and
plunged the toilers of the
British nation into mourn-
ing and debt that he
might knock the stuffing out of his royal 11 rivals.
That is the answer to your Highnesses’ little conuD.
drums. Melbourne, according to these veracious
volumes, was founded in! 1837, and land then not
worth £1 an acre was sold in ’Bl for “ £5OO per
B quare foot.” This is news indeed. At this price
a block 20 feet by 100 would realise exactly
£1,000,000, and a 200 by 200 block would be worth
£20,000,000. This would seem to be scarcely cor-
rect, unless real*.property in Melbourne did an
immense boom when royalty was around. Perhaps
it did. The book contains some philosophical
disquisitions which do not seem to square with
what we know or should suspect of the princes.
These observations, referring to Hayti, may serve
as an instance
“ The theories of Liberty, Fraternity, and
Equality, a heaven-sent Gospel in themselves,
have, in the way they have here been applied and
carried out, turned a Paradise of God and ‘the
cradle of the new world ’ into an Augean stable
and a very hell upon earth.”
It would be interesting to know which of the two
wrote this; whether it was the fiddle-headed
museum specimen of German humanity who be-
lieves that he will one day rule England, or the
larky, good-natured boy, his brother, who, at the
time of the voyage, probably thought a pastry-
cook’s shop the very Nirvana of his aspirations.
Notwithstanding the peculiarities of the publica-
tion, which we may briefly describe as Daltonian
in sentiment, and Guelphie in literary style,
it is probable that every sucking C M.G. wifi
love them even as a Mahommedan adores the
Koran; other people less enthusiastic will toe in-
clined to consider that Mr. Dalton only half dia
his work—after editing the book as he has done he
should have edited it into the Thames, It would
I have sunk.


Ho Fear!
“Sir Henry Parkes attended the Orange demonstration and spoke thereat, but said he was not an Orangeman,— Summary in country paper,
ANONYMA ORANGEISM: “’ENRY, DEAR, WON'T YOU MABRY ME?”
SIRENREE: "NO MY GOOD WOMAN, I DON'T MIND WALKING WITH YOU IN THE DARK, BUT YOU’RE NOT GOOD ENOUGH TO BE SEEN WITH IN DAYLIGHT ”
POLICEMAN X.: “MOVE ON NOW, BOTH O' YEZ!”


SOCIALS
On Wednesday evening, 15th inst., Mrs.
Mitchell, of Eltham, Darling Point, Sydney, gave
a most successful dance to a company of about
2CO. The splendid ball-room was handsomely
decorated, and many beautiful dresses were dis-
played by the ladies. Eap p cial mention must be
made of the one worn by Mrs. Sahl, which was
composed of two shades of green velvet and satin,
the front and side panels being ornamented with
beautiful grey irrldescent beads. Among other
pretty dresses were those worn by Mrs. Forbes
Angus, Miss Joseph, Mrs. Fred. Orr, Miss Annie
Manning, the Misses Clara and Nellie Manning,
Miss Enid Maoarthur, Mis 3 Edith Gore, the Misses
Campbell, the Misses Mann, the Misses Cox, Mrs.
Tooth, and Miss B. Valliant. Amongst the gentF -
men present were noticed Lord Bertie, A.D O ,
Mr. Wallington. Captains Terry and sherriffe,
A’s.D.C., Mr. J. Allison, Mr. Foster, Mr. F.
Macdonald, Mr. Ash with, it. A., &3.
* * *
The Australian Club gave a dinner to the
Right Hon. W. B. Dailey, Q.C., on Tuesday, 12th
Inst, in order that they might testify their satis-
faction at the honour recently conferred upon
him. Since that night Mr. Dailey has been ex-
tremely unwell.
m * »
The wedding of Mr. Percy Davidson, C. 8.,
and Mies Smith, of Mildura, Bathurst, came til on
Wednesday, the 13th lost. Mr. Davidson is the son
of that old Virginia Commodore who gave so much
trouble to the Northerners in ’153.
* » *
Friends in N.S.W. and Queensland of Pro-
fessor W. H. Caldwell, the famous naturalist, will
be glad to hear that he has so far recovered his
health that he has been able to lecture at the
British Royal Society’s rooms, London Mr. Cald-
well is engaged to be married to Miss Watt, a well-
known Sydney lady.
* * *
On Friday evening, the 16th, the North
Shore Assemnly ball was held. The arrangements
were perfect, and a most enjoyable evening was
spent. Most of the dresses “-orn were both taste-
lul and costly. Dancing matrons and girls seemed
to prefer, however, the light muslins, gauzes, and
tubes now so much in vogue. Blaok and whits
costumes predominated.
* • *
At a banquet to commemorate the fourth
year of Buffaloism in N.S.W , held at the Caring ton
Hall, Castlfreagh-street, Sydney, and presided
over by Gra d Primo Hyam Hains.it was men-
tioned that the order numbered 7000 members in
N.S.W., and that upwards of £BOO, collected In small
fines during last year, had been distributed in
charity.
a e ■
On Thursday, 14th inst., Lord and Lady
Carington received, as they usually do on Thurs-
day in each week, a small party of friends. As
many eountty readers may feel seme interest in
these little gatherings.lt maybe well to state what
takes place. The chief amusement centres in lawn-
tennis, two ladies and two gentlemen playing in
each court. The Governor Is an enthusiastic
tennis-player, and takes part In many of the
games. His Exoeilency is usually dressed in flan-
nels, with striped flannel Eton cap, while his staff
are clad for out-of-door amusements. Tha game
of Badminton was also indulged in. It certainly
Is a “ thin ” performance, as it consists in knock-
ing a shuttle cook over a tape 10 feet from the
ground with the old familiar battledore. This did
not create much enthusiasm. A brilliant future
cannot be predicted for It in this country. It is an
Indian game, but will not acclimatise with us.
The Governor and Lady Cariogton make them-
selves thoroughly pleasant, and one sees at once
why they have already become the most popular
of all the oocu pants of Government House.
■ * *
Miss Daisy Marchfair, stepdaughter of Mr,
Elkington, Balmain, has consented te marry Dr.
Graham.
■ • •
The engagement is announced of Miss
Blanche Travers, eldest daughter of Mr. Roderick
'J ravers, of Melbourne, and Mr. Sydney Stephen,
t econd son of Mr. Frank Stephen, Balaclava, Mel-
bourne, and sister of Miss Beatrice Stephen, who
.s to marry Colonel Bjngham.
* • •
Miss Annie Croyton, of Alma-road, St.
Kilda, Melbourne, is to marry the Rev. R. Potter,
curate of All Saints’ Church, St. Kilda, son of the
Rev. Canon Potter.
* * *
On 12th inst. a social meeting was held in
Ihe Glebe Presbyterian Churcb, with the double
purpose of advancing the interests of the majority
fund of the Presbyterian Church, N.S.W., and
saying farewell to the Rev. Andrew Graham, who
is about to return to Scotland. There was a large
attendance, and, after tea in the school hall, Mr.
Alex. Edwards and Mr. John Young sang several
tcotch songs in fine style. We knew it would
come to this. It is evident John is fast going to
the degs since they made him a mayor.
* * *
Lord Bertie, A.D.C., is visiting Mr. Alli-
son’s station, near Canonbar, N.S.W.
* * *
On Thursday evening, 14th inst., Mrs.
Henry White, of Calingra, Ocean street, Wool-
lahra, entertained about 40 of their lady and gen-
tlemen friends at a pleasant dance.
* * *
The engagement is announced of Miss C.
Mullens, daughter of Mr. Joslah Mullens, to Dr.
fcly, barrister-at-law, Sydney.
* * *
It is rumoured that Lord Suffield will pay
his daughter, Lady Carington, a visit at the begin-
ning of next year, bringing with him his younger
daughter, who will remain with Lady Carington.
* * *
It was with groat regret that many heard
of the news of the attempted murder of Captain
Marx, of H.M.S. Swinger, at the Louisiade, Archi-
pelago, by a native. Captain Marx had lately
married a young Brisbane lady. While in Sydney
he was well known in society. It appears the
native tried to carve him In pieces, and was only
prevented by Captain Marx showing some reluct-
ance to the performance. We are glad to hear
that the captain is recovering, and likely soon to
be out of medieal hands, and—safe.
• • •
As has already been remarked, all the
gaiety of Sydney is run into a few weeks. The
consequence is, that duriog the past week, things
have been hopelessly dull, and “ society ” really
doing nothing.
* • *
More honours for the Queen. R. B. Smith
has had her presented to nim! Think of tdat.
After reading of the disgusting behaviour of the
toad-eating colonists who are disgracing us at
home, it is satisfactory to be able to place our
hands on one man who knows his place and keeps
it. While others are struggling to receive honours,
R. B. confers them. “It is more blessed,” &c.
• * *
On Saturday, 17th inst., Mr. King, of the
Double Bay riding school, gave Lord Carington
and a tolerably large company an exhibition of
the riding prowess of his pupils. The day was all
that It should not have been, and the rain much de-
tracted from the enjoyment of those who had come
to see the Governor—we mean the riding. Several
young equestriennes, among whom we observed
the Misses Barney, Miss Skarratt, and Miss Stephen
snowed how they had improved in the hands of
Mr. King. Wo do not know how well they rode
when they first started, but certainly they seemed
to sit their horses in good style, and though the
jumping inside the building was a failure, owing,
probably, to the fact that it was too dark for the
horses to see the jumps. Still, the out-door show
was good, exoept an absurd faroe in which the
ladies held long strips of ribbon and wound them
round a pole. This was the flattest part of the
show. “Sassiety ” dfd not,for a wonder, turn out;
consequently his Excellency had some time to him-
self, and was not pestered by the usual grovellers.
He was accompanied by Captain Terry and Cap-
tain Sherriife, As.D.C., the former of whom wore
some wonderful boots, which were the admiration
of the women and the despair of the men.
* * *
An engagement is announced between the
attractive Miss Edith Gore, eldest daughter of
Mrs. Roach, of Manly Beach, and Lieutenant
Thompson, of H.M.B. Miranda.
■ * *
The marriage is also announced to take
place very shortly of Miss Ali?e Maclean, daughter
of the late Dr. Maolean, of Alberto Terrace, and
Mr. Llewellyn Meredith (a member of the well-
known Tasmanian family of that name) now of
Viotoria.
* * *
The marriage of Dr. W. Edward Warren,
of Elizabeth-street, Hyde Park, Sydney, with Miss
Macready, took place quietly at the residence of
the Rev. Henry Macready, on the 14th inst. Dr.
and Mrs. Warren lelt Bydney by the express train
the same afternoon for Melbourne, where they in-
tend remaining for three weeks or a month.
* * v
Mr. and Mrs. Chadwick, of Arlington,
have issued invitations for a musical “ At Home,’*
for Tuesday, the 20th, in honour of the return of
their newly-married daughter, Mrs. Newbury.
* * »
The Balmain Rowing Club will hold their
annual ball on the evening of the 30th inst., when
Lord Caricgton, and the mayor and aldermen of
Balmain have promised their patronage.
• * *
Bouquets of flowers are no longer placed
on the side of the boaioe, but in front, where
they require to be arranged to tae figure.
* * *
The coming bonnet, it is said, will not in-
volve a sacrifice of animat life in securing its
Vegetable-gardens will take the place
of bird-skins on the head of the fashionable, and
the oriole and robiD, and red headed woodpecker
will give way to mushrooms, bananas, and itoma-
toes. This is at it should be. The lives of our
birds will be spared, and lovely women will look
lovelier than ever. We'd like to see a yellow-
faced woman wearing a banana.
* v »
Mr. Daniel Cooper (son of the absentee
N.B.W. baronet, Sir Daniel Cooper), who has, it is
cabled, just been married in England to Miss
Grant fiuttie, the daughter of the late Sir James
Grant Suttie, Bart., and the Lady Susan Grant
Suttle, lives in gorgeous style “at home” upon
his share of the huge revenues derived by his
family from their immense, cheaply-gotten, and
practically untaxed Australian lands. Not very
long ago we saw a series of photographs, the mere
takiDg of which must have cut a big hole in a £ICO
note, of Mr. Dan. Cooperand his Highland keepers
(about 15 in number) and his large eolleotion of
sporting doge. However, Mr. Cooper, unlike many
young Australians who have inherited money, is
not a mean man, and he has scores of friends who
sincerely wish him all possible happiness in his
married life.
* * *
On Wednesday, the 14th inst., Mrs. Thomas
Mort, of Green Oaks, Darlirg Point, gave a most
successful children's pieuic.
* * *
Mrs. Lewellyn Jones, of Elizabeth Bay, also
gave a children’s picnic, which was a thorough
success, on Thursday, the 15tb, to Bans Soucl.
* * *
The marriage is shortly to take place of
Mr. Cecil Bloxsome, of Ringer’s Valley, New
England, to Miss Eva Fenwick, daughter of Mr.
J. Fenwick, of Walcha, New England. Miss
Fenwick returned to Sydney with her mother last
week from Europe, where she has been on a visit
for two years.
* * *
The Messrs. Needs held one of their fort-
nightly meetings at the rooms, Nlthsdale.on Wed-
nesday eveniDg, the 14tb, when over 50 members,
with their lady friends, attended. The floor and
music, and a programme of 16 dances, were all
admirable. Light refreshments were served during
the eveniDg. Among the many pretty dresses,
the most noticeable were a handsome bodice of
crimson plush worn over a skirt composed of
white satin profusely trimmed with white lace. A
well-fitting and becoming dress was black Bpanlsh
lace draped over rose-coloured satin. A pale blue
crepe de chine, with bunches of moss roses and
green leaves placed about the Bkirt, was greatly
admired. A peculiar gown was cigar-coloured
cashmere with panels of golden-brown plush. A
white satin profusely beaded with clear-cut beads,
was a great success. Miss Anderson’s frock of
black Spanish lace, with pink plush bodioe, looked
very pretty. Miss Young wore a FrencU combina-
tion of grey satin profusely trimmed with pale
pink lace and clusters of grey and pink feathers.
* * *
Captain and Mrs. Osborne, who have been
on a lew months’ visit to Sydney, left by the Mari-
posa on Thursday, the 15tb, for London, where
they intend definitely to reside. A great number
of their friends were on board to see them off.
* * *
Fivedock (N.S.W.) has started a debating
society to grapple with the questions which para-
lyse the world at the present period. As ladies are
admitted to debate, it was natural that the bent of
their reflections should be followed in the selec-
tion of subjects, so the society first worried the
important theme, “Flirting, its user, methods, and
results.” Much valuable information was con-
tributed, and the feeling of the meeting seemed to
be that this institution should be revered with a
deep reverence, and the meeting made an early
adjournment to collect fuller information. “ The
Dress of Gentlemen,” was next discussed, and a
strong opinion expresses that “a tail-coat with-
out a crinny was an utter absurdity,” and that the
vest of the period was incomplete without a frill.
Fivedock bas thrown a tow-line to the van of pro-
gress this time, and Is likely to make itself the
very hub. of the social wheel unless the female
conspirators take to stonewalling. “ Are Bangs
Beautiful ?” will be the theme for an early Bitting,
and a soul-stirring discussion on spring bonnets
will subsequently eventuate.
mm*
Baron de Worms lately turned from a Jew
to be a Christian. So did his wife; and now he is
suing for a divorce on the ground of a very com-
mon Gentile aot haviDg been committed. Even
Worms wilt turn. The next time he does so, he
will turn in another direction.
* * *
A ball, the bare preparations for which are
spreading a two inch layer of refinement over the
Western districts of N.S.W., is to eventuate on
the 6th August. It is celebratory of the formation
of Our Boys Cricket Club, and is to be achieved at
that gay and gorgeous oity, Ironbarks. Pydney is
to be depleted of flowers to supply the decora-
tions, other than those which the mere presence
of the maidens of the West ensures.
* * *
“ Beltenebrosa” is the pseadonym of the
“Peeress'’ who contributes a fortnightly out-
pouring of literary slush, to the Town and
Country Journal. A horrid suspicion, has
possessed tne cultured readers of that periodi-
cal in Durand’s alley, who, taking the letters
anagram maticaliy, think that they have dis-
covered tae writer’s aaaie. When told that
the surname usually Is spelt differently, they
strive to account for the circumstance by saying,
“ Oh, you oan’t take no notioe o’ that. Tnere are
some Bennetts who can't spell alonss'de of a
gaffer in a ragged school.” But we really don t
think that Henniker would try to palm off a
Bennett as a peeress ; that would be too huge a
lark. At the same time, though, It seems not at
all unlikely that Henniker may some day manage
to pass off a Heaton as a peer, which would be
playing it still lower on England’s old nobility.
* * *
That aristocratio corps, the Lanoeahs, are,
we notice, playing “ the very doose ” with Sydney
sassiety. Thus, one reads in the suburban (New-
town) Independent, under the title “ Hymenial
(by and bye people will be spelling it “ High-
menial”) the following exquisite little yarn:—
*• On Wednesday evening, 14th inst., the mar-
riage of Mr. George Draper (of the firm of Tabrett
and Draper, timber merchants and builders, St.
Peters) to Miss Minnie Day, fourth daughter of
George Day, Esq., of Nambuoca River, and sister
of Mrs. Marcus Clark, took place at Viotorla
House, King-street, Newtown. The ceremony
was performed by the Rev. Mr. Troy, of the
Christian Church, Sydney. About 80 guests were
present, including the bride and bridegroom's
most intimate friends and acquaintances, and the
elite of Newtown. The new part of Victoria
House was converted into a dining-room fcO feet
lOng, and a table was erected in the centre, ex-
tending from end to end, and was beautifully and
tastefully laid out for the oooasion. The oaterlng
was entrusted to a local firm, and was carried out
satisfactorily. Mr. George Draper is one of the
oldest members of the Sydney Lanoers, and is also
one of the Governor s escort, Lord Oarington
being colonel of the regiment. In consideration
of these circumstances, Mrs. Clark sent an invita-
tion to Lord and Lady Carington to be present at
the ceremony. A reply was received from Lord
Carington, stating that they felt sorry at not being
able to accept the invitation owing to the pres-
sure of other impartant business, but wished the
oouDle every happiness in their future life. An
invitation had also been sent to Mr. Quong Tart,
who made a very courteous reply, stating that
owing to previously fixed engagements he was
unable to attend.” Yegodsl
* * *
Mr. and Mrs. T. Lakeman gave a delight-
ful dance to a company of about 150 in the Odd-
fellows’ Hall, Church-street, Waverley, on
Tuesday evening, the 13th. De Groen’s excellent
band, a large number of smart dresser, an elegant
supper, and the indefatigable efforts of the host
and hostess, all contributed to the perfect success
of one of the pleasantest balls ever held at
Waveriey. The hostess wore a magnifloent robe
of deep claret velvet trimmed with real Limerick
lt.ce, bodice cut low, sleeves short, and long train.
* * *
Thousands will join in sympathising with
Sir John Robertson in his hour of bereavement.
Just as he had retired from the toil and strife of
politics, his daughter, Mrs. Harry Gilliat, is taken
from him. The lady was beloved by a large circle
of acquaintances, for she possessed in a high
degree the many amiable qualities of her father.
As i 3 known, she died shortly after giving birth to
a child—the only one born to her in a married life
of 10 years’ duration. The child is alive and well.
* * m
Mr. R. S. Smythe has done the musioal
folk of Sydney a good turn in bringing over
the Z9rbini Quartette.” The first concert was
given in the Y.M.C.A. Hall, last Friday night, and
inclement though the weather was. nearly every
seat was taken for that evening. The Governor,
Lady Carington and suite, attended, and seemed
to enjoy the excellent music thoroughly. The
gem of the concert was, perhaps, Haydn’s quar-
tette in E flat Op. 64, which was given by the two
violins—viola and ’cello—with such precision and
musicianly skill, that at the termination the
players were greeted with thunders of applause,
and nothing would satisfy less than a repetition of
the last movement. Mr. J. H. Guenett, the
pianist of the oompaoy, is an unaffected par-
former. Of the nine refined class of artists, Miss
Cnristian, who was in capital voice, sang two
charming songs, one “To Chloe,” by Sterndale
Bennett, aDd the other, *' Far from my love,” by
tfavti. For the second the lady received an encore,
upon which she gave, “ Cans't thou believe,” most
expressively. Only six items were down on the
ftrogramme, but as each was almost a concert in
tself, the audience left more than satisfied with
this most delightful entertainment.
* * *
On Wednesday, 13th inst., a hunt was
held about Double Bay and Bondi, Mr. Edward
Terry having brought over his bounds from
Ryde. There was a large number of horsewomen
and men, and the object of the chase was the wily
red herring. That Bplendid creature was followed
with wild excitement by about 25 human beings
and 10 dogs, all thirsting for its blood. It was
wonderful how long that fish eluded the pur-
suers and dashed over the ground and among the
furze-bushes as though it had been at the game
all its life. One stout M.P., however, never really
gave it a chance. He stuck to the trail with the
tenacity of a shark, and had at last the satisfaction
of eating it. It is to be hoped that so glorious a
sport will not be allowed to die from want of suf-
ficient support—or herrings.
* * *
A laudable effort is being made to seoure a
“ drive ” about Sydney that shall compare favour-
ably with the fashionable “drives” of older
countries. It has been proposed that a start
should be made at Bourke'sstatue, thence through
the gate into Macquarie-street, down that street
and round to the beginning of the sea wall, near
Fort Macquarie. In order to avoid encroaching on
the Botanic Gardens, it was proposed to carry the
roadway outside of the sea wall by a light iron
platform to Mrs. Macquarie’s Chair, thenoe round
on reclaimed ground to Foley's baths, and by an
easy gradient into the present road, again diverg-
ing round the Art Gallery and across from thence
by the Technological Museum to starting-point.
Distance, about 3M miles. The ohief objects
of this movement are to encourage the use
of horses and vehicles, and to improve the
breed of carriage-horses, a clast of animal
in which New South Wales is itrangely defi-
cient. Lord Carißgtou has gone heartily into the
matter. His Exoellency also makes the useful
suggestion that the unemployed might be put to
worse uses than cutting long riding-tracks through
the Randwick and Botany watersheds. Ail must
agree that it is good policy to make Sydney at-
tractive. It may be said that all this seems very
like doing work at the cost of the country for one
class of the community, but this would be an ex-
tremely narrow view as the thing means trade
and labour all round.
* * v
The committee of the Sydney Mercantile
Rowing Club report huge progress in the way of
preparations for thtir annual ball. Already a big
majority of the tickets are sold, and these pass
ports to paradise are likely to become as scarce as
consistent freetraders, and as much prized as the
bright, fair bloom of the glowing cneek of bud-
ding beauty, before the plaintive wail of the
witching waltz weaves its potent spell.
* v *
“Mab,” whose clever work in the Bul-
letin has identified her with the social columns of
this paper, ceased contributing some weeks since.
It was thought at the time that Miss “ Mab” would
shortly resume her wonted efforts, but the antici-
pation has not been realised, in consequence of the
decision of that gifted lady to retire for the present
from active literary work.
* * *
At a recent Newtown (N.8.W.) wedding,
to which some very distinguished guest 3 had been
invited, the breakfast was given in a draper's shop.
Tne guests could therefore look from beauty
across the table to beautiful garments on the wail.
Next time a soft-goods man gets married we ex-
pect he will ticket everything, so as to make the
ad. cover the oost of the entertainment.
* * *
The Misses Lulu, Pauline, and Elise Joran,
three exceedingly clever pianists fram the United
States, will bo the next musical sensation in
Sydney. The young ladies are waiting until the
Mayor’s fancy hall and other fashionable witer-
talnments are over before making their debut.
* * *
The crowded audience at the Zerbini
Quartette Concert was noticeable for the absence
of the dead-head element. No Sydney musician
ever gives a concert—not even a benefit oonoert—
without having to send orders to so-called patrons
—people who mow their appreciation of high-class
music by never paying to hear it. The Melbourne
artistes did not believe in this sort of patronage**
and their audience meant money.
* * *
The Minister for Works must have a soul
for art, though we never before gave hkn credit
for it. But he proved it or something else by in-
viting the Z«rbini quartette concert party to a
picnic up Middle Harbour on Saturday, the lith
inst. Champagne luncheon was provided, and
that and the rest seemed to give satisfaction to all
who were “ in it.”
* * *
Though the late M. Julien Deoourt, Con-
sul for France in Sydney, was better known in his
consular office than in society, yet he will be
missed by many. His funeral was largely at-
tended, and the Count de fjouvieres followed the
custom of his country and delivered au oration at
the grave.
* * v
Miss Minnie Rosenthal, of Raphaelville,
South Kingston, grand-daughter of the late J. G.
Raphael. ip to be married to Mr. Edward Cohen,
of Double Bay.
The Golden Shore—Kimberley.
Irrigation Bill —that little account from
the pub.
A Rockhampton paper’s critique on an
opera performed by Seari lle and Harding's com-
pany concluded by calling its respeoted leader Mr.
Bcarehell.
Last week, in the dead of night, at.Nhill,
Vic., some dastard piled up combustibles about the
humble/cot of one Kane," and ignited same. Pro-
bably the Nailists wanted to raise Kane.
The Salvation Army now convey to the
public by means , 6f l "huge posters the information
that they believe irnhell. Their*belief isashared by
every <. ne who has beard a Salvation band.
A brilliant Queensland rag says the Irish
are not really patriotic because they get drunk on
St. Patrick's Day. Someveditoratget .the bulge on
Irish patriots up there by getting drunk every day.
Alioe township-(Q.) boasts of a new pub-
lican who can ltft*lsowt., his calmest
moments. It is understood that When excited he
will be capable of “chucking out” a drunken
elephant.
Jaw-Bone Neild spoke at Goulburn
(N.8.W.) on Wednesday night. On Friday a lunatic
was seen at Gerogery, on the Goulburn Hoad,
going South. He must have travelled to do the
distancedn that time. \
The Antarctic Exploration Committee ad-
vise the Victorian Government toioffer a substan-
tial bonus to thesflrst ship enteringitheir port with
a cargo of blubber. Ah 1 another incentive to the
Jingoes who struggle to entice “ Wales” Außtralia-
wards.
A “ journalist and swindler ” is lately re-
ported to have gone to Kimberley. There must be
some miatatce here If he was a journalist we
cannot believe him to have been a swindler, and if
a swindler it is impossible for him to have been a
journalist. Perhaps, however, they mean that ha
was employed on the religious papers.
A Russian professor at Melbourne offers
£35 for a ilea. He has a troupe of these domestic
animals whioh he has been exhibiting, and the
missing |indivi4ual—a highty-trained gentleman
flea of hlstrionie abilities-was accustomed to play
the leading business. Fears are entertained that
the star insect may have been squashed.
“A priest who refused to be sworn on the
Protestant Bible yesterday,” says a Melbourne
paper, “ when told he should, if he objected to the
ordinary Bible, bring one which satisfied his
scruples, replied he carried the Bible In hts head,
not In his pocket. Subsequentlyh Douay Bible
was produced, oh whioh he took the oath.” If the
offlolals of the oourt had been half as sharp as this
ready-witted priest, they would have sworn the
rev. father on a cheque-book.
The West Australian Land Company has
taken over Mr. Anthony Hordern's contracts for
the Albany-Beverley (W.A.) railway. Mr. Hor-
dern is to receive one-sixth of the land grant-
equal to 488.000 acres-and will be created a director
of the company for life. Whioh looks, prima facie,
like a very good thing for the keen and plucky
Mr. Anthony Hordern.
New South Wales seems to hold her place
in the confidence of investors, in spite of the
vagaries of her politicians. The success attendant
upon the floating of the recent £5,500,000 loan will
be a slice of luck to the Jennings’ Government,
although they may have some trouble to explain
why they put it on the market four months before
the date originally intended.
The Sydney D.T. says that “ Mr. Leonard
Courtney, M.P., and Mr. Arthur Locker, editor of
the Graphic, have been elected members of the
National Association of Journalists. Mr. Henniker
Heaton, M.P., has also joined.” N.B.—The first two
gentlemen were elected; we wonder how it is that
the third—our darling Henniker—apparently is
described as having only ‘ also joined.”
Lee and Maoalister, of Sydney, charged
with complicity in the alleged railway frauds, have
been committed for trial, bail being allowed.
Wright, Heaton and Co., and several of their em-
ployes, will be the next to face the beak on the
same aocmation. An impression is abroad that
the Frawncls Abigie has done something to
justify his political existence for once.
The Queen has resolved to re-admit
Madame Patti to the oourt concerts on account of
her marriage with Signor Nieolini. Some time
ago the great singer was excluded because she
was not married to that gentleman, but the cere-
mony since perfoimed Is held by her Majesty to
wipe out any previous Indiscretions. This rule,
however, does not apply to a lot of other people.
“ One man may embezzle a mnle, while another
may not hang his shirt on the fence.”
By cable we learn that A. B. Fenn, of the
New South Wales Rifle Team, at Wimbledon, car-
ried off the nice little plum of £350 In the contest
for the St. George's Challenge Vase. With this
exoeption, the colonials have done very poorly,
and have not shot up to the forcj shown by them
In their home practice. This failure may be due
to climatic Influence, defective light—or funk;
but we suppose the "time trial” is uo more to be
depended on in ritta shooting than in other classes
of sport.
The famous divoroe case of Crawford v.
Crawford and Dilke is being re-heard In London
with a view to giving the Chelsea baronet another
opportunity of divesting himself of raiment and
washing himself in public. The whole episode has
now acquired the odour peculiar to the moral and
physical skunk, but the society aristocrats of
Knglaud appear to like this gamey perfume, and
the Court Is second only to the “ Colinderies ” as a
publio resort. Judging from present appearances
Sir Charles Dilke wiil be j ust about seven shades
darker at the close of the proceedings than he is
at present, for though he has solemnly kissed the
infected Bible and sworn that he is as pure as
snowy mutton, he ad’mitted in cross-examination
that he had excised some awkward entries from
his diary and had split up the seventh command-
ment on previous occasions. The most dangerous
witness agatnßt him—the mysterious Fanny—is
still missing, aad appears likely to maintain a
prudent remoteness from the scene of trouble,
and in her absence It will probably bo rather diffi-
cult work to scrape off the spots which the Radical
leopard has so unfortunately contracted.


SUPPLEMENT TO "THE BULLETIN” SYDNEY, N.S.W,
W Look Out
lg|i
DURING THE /«■
Coras MONTI! /■




CORRESPONDENCE
tC orrupondenti who oive neither name nor nom-de-
Plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticcd.l
“ Viotor H.”: No, certainly not. A state-
ment may be calculated to bring a man int ocon-
tempt, and yet not be actionable. You might, for
instance, oall a man “a stonewaller” or "a
suburban alderman ” with impunity...." A.F.”
(Cobar); May use in another shape “ W.”: Even
if Mr. Parsons were responsible this is merely a
“clerical” error...." Pro Bono Publico”: Shall
be glad to have anything you know about it: you
need fear no liability in the matter...." P.M.”:
Your only way is to sue for delivery...." A.E J.”:
Thanks for cutting. We think Sir John Robert-
son fairly earned a grant. Remember, he legis-
lated in rougher, although perhaps soberer, times
than the present...." Port Melbourne”: On 18th
May, 1884. (8.) You can’t get over the fact that
when Sir James M'Culloch accepted a knighthood,
Berry made capital out of it in his harangues to
the working classes, and declared that no man
could take such a meretricious bauble and
be an earnest Democrat. When Sir Gra-
ham Berry returns to Victoria he will
pose as a respectable Liberal-Conservative
“J. J. Roberts”: Very well “ R.E.G.” (Christ-
church): Thanks. The fact that he comes from
the Adelaide Y.M.C.A. may* however, arouse a
prejudice against him in the minds of the irre-
verent and ungodly “James Ashe”: We don’t
remember any previous instance of Parkes attend-
ing an Orange gathering. The earnest Orangemen
—the conscientious fanatics, as contra-distin-
guished from the conscienceless political schemers
of the order—regard Parkes’ present attitude with
contemptuous loathing “ Moira”: We don’t see
how an unprincipled legislative ceduoer, or a mem-
ber of Parliament notorious for shadowing little
girls round dark corners-a man whose immorality
is so notorious that his glance directed at the face
Of any decent woman is an insult—can possibly
entertain any particular reverence for the sanctity
of the Bawbath....“ J.P.”: The difference so far
seems to consist in the fact that while in Victoria
all the snuffiers, ranters, hypocrites, whited
sepulchres, and blathering men of straw
travel on the Radical and Protectionist ticket
(which nevertheless has of late years in
the Cabbage Garden never lacked sinoere
and able advocates)', the N.S.W. snuffiers and
frauds nearly all array themselves on the side
Of Freetrade and “ holy-joeyism,” because they
think it much the stronger side. By-and-bya,
when Protection and something like a progressive
liberal policy shall] have been firmly Jnsta'led in
N.S.W., the Orangemen will change their
tune and “rat” with the utmost celerity
"Loyalty”: "Worship” is fair verse, but want-
ing in both force and elegance. With either it
Would be acceptable..,,“T. S.” Sandgate (Q):
Thanks: hint very welcome....." The Three
Balls Thanks for suggestion; we deal this week
with the work in question...." James Miller”:
No wonder your brother never receives it; the
Russian authorities have, for years, refused to
pass The Bulletin through the post. Its political
opinions are "too steep” for them...."R.R.”:
The only solid argument we have yet heard ad-
vanced against the legalisation in England of
marriage with a deceased wife’s sister, is that f
if such marriages were permitted, women would
go to the homes of their brothers-in-law and
make love to them, and by so doing bring about
proceedings in the Divorce Court, and ultimately
marry, or live with their sister’s husband In adul-
tery. This argument is on a par with the con-
tention that Britishers, unlike Germans, wouldn’t
respect the law if hanging and flogging were
abolished "Alfred 8. Stevens” (Melbourne):
Many thanks. However, we re-published the
verses months ago. Always glad to hear from
you "Thespis” (Maryborough, Q.): Thanks.
Has already been noticed “L.F.”: Thanks
“ J. 8.” (Forbes): If she said, “I love you, Joe,” it
must have been before you wrote that poetry —
"Hudson Shaw ”: Will possibly print “ Recon-
ciliation ”: Basket. Treatment not strong enough
for the subject. Metre fairly correct, save when
you use the double-ending words for your lines.
"J. Marshall” (Ravenswood): An ignorant,
ravenous quack, iwho’d swindle his own father,
and who doesn’t know erysipelas from epilepsy,
or paregoric from paralysis .."Jonas”: The "hectic
flush” of The Bulletin’s cover is caused by in-
creased circulation..." L oyal”: When the decision
of a Supreme Court Judge is upset on appeal, the
Judge isn’t deposed from the bench. Why should
Speaker Barton 1089 the Speakership on account
of one mistake ? The oily man capable of filing
Mr. Barton’s place is Sir Henry Parkes, and he
would not be likely to accept the post save as a
last resort "Fitzroy”: Yes; Dan. O'Connor
formerly abused Sir Henry Parkes with much
vehemence, and now supports him with equal
ardour. There are some men who would rush to
carry sulphur in Hades, for the sake of currying
favour with old Nick “J.P.”: Your theory is
worthy of consideration, but will not stand debate.
..." Dynamo ”: The reason why letters of introduc-
tion are always handed unsealed to the bearer is
this, that in ancient times, in N.S.W., when an
assigned servant was refractory, or his master or
mistress happened to be in bad humour, he or she
would give the servant a sealed letter, addressed
to the nearest J.P., running thus:—"The bearer,
J. Smith, has been cheeky to me to-day. Please
give him 250 lashes, and oblige John Bilkins ” (or
" Sarah Biikins,” as the case might bs). By-and-
bye convict servants got tired of walking 20 miles
only to got a flogging, and as they truculently re-
fused to present any letter of whioh they did not
know the conteLti, it became customary never to
give a man in N.S.W. a sealed letter of introduc-
tion. To gum-up such a letter is the worst insult
you can offer to a Potts Point patrician, and he in-
stinctively says “ Ooh! ” and rubs his back, even
if merely asked to post a letter "C.M.G.”:
Sketch held over until the case has been decided.
“M.8.L.H.” (Ashfleld): No fear “A.H.C.”:
Thanks. The verses extensively re-printed
already.. .“J. Bell”: They oan legally charge
you what they like—for, you see, you are not
bound to buy from them. They must, however,
be mean people if they extort from you at sea
ss. per pound for duty-free tobaoco “B.
Lang”: Will read verses. We have a photo, which
you may see...,'* Ambulator ”: Thanks. Veiy
good —“Constant Reader”: Impossible to obtain
the information you require. The rumour that
Parnell and his followers will ruin England’s oredit
and bring on insolvency, is simply a Tory lie faked
up for the eleotion “A Cobdenite”: Will deal
with your points next week.... “ Richmond River”.
Thanks. Wenotethe par.... “G.C.W.”: To pub’
lish your statements, which are no doubt perfectly
true, might cost several thousands “Not built
that way”: That little poem has been printed by
every paper in the States...." Jno. S.”; Will look
at the ode to your girl for next week.
Nudity.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Tbe youngster who saw his mamma dressed for a
ball and asked her where she was going to bathe
may have been an enfant terrible of a more than
usually pronounced character, but the boy had,
no doubt, sufficient reasons in his mother’s attire
to prompt him to the inquiry. Perhaps there was
never a time when bareness, accompanied or un-
accompanied by beauty, wr.s so extensively in
vogue with women as the present. Take photo-
graphy. When two fond parents take their first-
born—the finest child in the world, of course—to
the photo.-man, their joint production must
be stripped and laid in the half-she 1. It gener-
ally does not do to have the small box of
yells taken in his christening cloak, the gift of his
aunt. This would show the cloak, but it would
not display the child’s limbs. It is pardon-
able pride that prompts the action, we
admit. But we were just thinking the
other day how many children caught cold
or were given a disgust for art all through their
after-life by the cold half-shell and the awful
sound the portrait-man gives forth to engage
their attention. Then Miss Minx, aged 14, must
have her taper arms and neck taken, to be satisfied
with what the sun thinks of her. The professional
and stage beauty business hss naturally given an
impetus to naked photography. We do not
know what the British matron is beginning to
think of it. She may tolerate Mrs. Langtry’s and
Mary Anderson’s portraits in her drawing-room,
but the picture of the little girl round at the
theatre who shows her legs with more modesty
than the British matron’s daughter shows her face
and bosom would send the lady into hysterics if it
were found stuck up by her eon—destined for the
church—upon the chimney-piece when the bishop
came to visit. We do not object to graceful arms
and " animated busts ” being photographed, but
we think there is too much of it. That uncomfort-
able, irrascible old man, Thomas Carlyle, bade
those who had something good to say, out with it
in Heaven’s name I ” We say the same to women.
If a competent judge has assured you that your
bust and arms are really beautiful, out with them
on every fair occasion, and gladden the heart of
the men who look on you. But if your arm is a
wire, your neck a rope of wrinkles, and your
besom—well, not there—have pity on the world,
and leave them to padding and the imagina-
tion. The old Greeks worshipped beauty. When
Pbryne, at the Feast of Neptune, plunged into the
sea, she gave to Apelles and Praxiteles the idea of
their great works. The Venus de Medici, at
Florence,is, according to Thomson, “the statue
that enchants the world,’’ and, as Byron says, a
work where
“ The goddess loves in stone and fills
The air around with beauty.”
The love of the beautiful, if not stronger, is more
general now. Art flourishes, but fiesh is tri-
umphant. Soon, no one will care to write like the
imaginary Herr Teufelsdrockh a Philosophy of
Clothes. There will not be sufficient to write
about. But the stage is not wholly to blame, for
the example has been set by the dress-circle and
society. Have you never seen at any of the typi-
cal comic operas of the period, the elder Spriggs,
Mrs. Spriggs, and low-dressed daughters in the
dress-circle? Spriggs seizes the family opera-
glasses as soon as the ballet-girls come on in cos-
tume. He steals furtive glances through it until
his wife’s eye discovers his little game, and with a
nudge, which would almost break an elephant’s
rib, he is admonished not to look at “ those crea-
tures,” and the glass is taken away from him, con-
fiscated in a fashion, and given to the young ladies
who wish to stare at BilJgreeno. Oh, for a forty-
parson power to chant thy praises, nineteenth
century hypocrisy 1 But bareness, like the poor,
we now have always with us—from the picture
upon a little French matchbox to the advertise,
ment of moral soap, or of parcels sent all round
the world at a reasonable charge. Alfred Austin
wrote some hard things in his satire, “ The
Season.” He pretty well summed it up in one
part where he asked—
“ What can be man’s, the while ’tis woman’s part
To bare her bosom and to hide her heart? ’
Wolfe's Schnapps for liver and kidney com-
plaints.
Why 'will people dose themselves with
medicine when they have Wolfe’s Schnapps?
I HAD TRIED
Everything I had heard of m the East and West
for Salt Rbeum. My case was considered a very
bad one. My face, head, and some parts of my
bjdy were almost raw. Head covered with scabs
and sores. Suffering fearful. One very skilful
phjsioan said he would rather not treat it, and
some of them think now I am only cured tempor-
al ily. I think not, for I have not a particle of Salt
Rheum about me, and my case is considered
wonderful. Thanks to CtmctrßA Resolvent, the
new Blood Purifier, and Cuticura ana Cuticura
Soap, tne great skin Cures and Bsautifiers. _
Decatok, Mich. MRS. S. E. WHIPPLE.
It is a good thing to keep a bottle of Wolfe’s
Schnapps in the house.
Wolfe’s Schnapps the only genuine brand
of Schnapps in the world. Beware of imitation.
The MODERN ART FURNISHING
■W-A.X3XIHOUSB
OF
MS, LAWSI U i CO,
FOMBROT CHAMBERS, "
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
Between the Sydney Club and the New Athenmum Club.
These recently-erected magnificent pile of buildings have been fitted
UP BY
Jones, Lawson Bros, and Co.,
AS SHOWROOMS, FOR THE DISPLAY OF
ART FURNITURE
IN MODERN AND MEDIEVAL STYLES,
Suitable for Large or Small Buildings, and adapted to all tastes, the workmanship and finish of
every piece being of the highest order.
In the Carpet and Curtain Department,
he Quality of the Goods is Unsurpassable, the Designs Unique, and the Cost Reduced to a Minimum,
fts tne arrangements entered into by JONES, LAWSON HROS., and CO. with the Leading Manu-
facturers of Great Britain and the Continent are of such a nature that they are enabled to rffer
> Retail Customers the Choicest Productions at LESS THAN FORMER WHOLESALE PRICES.
In Cornice and Parterre Hangings,
ONES, LAWSON BROS., and CO. offer Novelties, of the Richest Description, at As roars singly
Low Fric-s, bringing these elegant Appointments within the reach of those hitherto precluded, by
reason of great cost ,from enjoying such Useful Adjuncts to Reception and Drawing Rooms.
Apartments have been specially fitted up in their extensive range of premises for the guidance of
those about to furnish, various styles being adopted, from which the most fastidious can select.
MAN lONS FURNISHED
the Shortest Notice, and in the Most Elaborate and Tasteful Manner, by contrast or otherwise, and
Dwellings of every description fitted up for the reception cf intending occupants.
Specialities : Carpets, Hangings, and Art Furniture.
Carriage and Public Entrance:
Warehouse and Stores: Hoskins PiaGO.
ON THE
Brickfield. Hill.
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Free oe Charge.
/(?
C D
O
rO
m
oO
u
<3
Nursing and Riding Stays.
Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPOON BUSKS),
2s. lid., 3s. 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4s. lid., ss. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., 9s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12s 6d
EDWAF.D HORDERN AND l OHS, 666 arid 668 Brickfield Hill.
N B.—Orders from ths Country will receive Immediate and careful attention.


TROUBLES OF AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHY.
SELECTOR: "HI THERE, WHAT ARE YOU DOING WITH MY COW?"
AMATEUR: "I WANT TO TAKE HER PHOTOGRAPH."
SELECTOR: "NO, I'LL SEE YOU DON'T. LAST MAN THAT TOOK ANYTHING FROM
HERE GOT THREE YEARS IN BERRIMA."
Marie Br'zirdl
True politeness and Sj 5 , 0^ .
often put to a severe test, and lately a heavy strain
■was put on a lady's stoik of these commodities of
social intercourse. He was .leaning his elbow on
the mantelpiece, engaged in pleasant converse,
with a lady rec iniog in an easy chair, when crash I
he swept oIT a very handsome piece of statuary,
vase, both very costly articles. The hostess
hastened to as.ure her discomfited gueit who
gasped out some rare apologies. After her KUtSt s
departure her grief was poured into the ear of
her husband, and the opinion expressed that he
was a clumsy fellow; then she said, nrxt ek I
want to get some new china and gla?s, and I shall
see if Bray Bros- cm supply anything nmilar.
They have some lovely thing).*
You really ought to drink Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Marie B.izirdl
A BTALB SBRMON.
A minister who, being very absent-minded,
wo lid preach the same sermon to his people
several times during the season, one of bis constant
heareis met him one day and addresstd him
" Doctor, the sermon you gave us this morning
having had several readings the past three months,
I move it now be passed, and eubsti ute the c*la-
brated ANHEIT3BR BUSCHISr. LOCI 8 LiGBR
BEER for a change.” Sensible to the last.
Scientific judges confess Wolfe's Schnapps
has no equal.
Marie Brieard 1
Wolfe's Schnapps taken three times a day
will make a different man of you.
The Great Northern Hotel, Charlotte-
place and George-strcet. i 3
cheapness, combine! with good quality,
motto is -Small profits and quick returns.
Butleb W. Obmonde, Private Enquiry
Agent, 313 George-street, undertakes all kinds of
confidential business, traces absconders, wife
deserters, and missing relatives ; procures copies
of certifisates and wills, at moderate rates. Col-
lector of rents and debts. Acts *s ageat generally
Letters written. The most absolute secrecy ob-
served. Note the address3l3 Georg6-Btieet,
second floor.*
Marießrizard!
Premier ball-room decorators ox New
South Wales. S*ie and Dare, decorators, ban
and banquet rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations, 00% Hunter-street
Sydney.*
THEIR NAME IS LEGION.
Legions of people have had their lives made
miserable by piles. Th s Painf ul difficulty *
induc’d and always aggravated by constipation.
Dr Btll's Bitters is the great rernedy for ai l
affections of this kind. It acts as agentle cathartic
promotes a healthy action of the bowels, E haM
soottes and heals the ii fl imed surfaces. ** d iS
cured hundreds of cases where all other .remediM
and applications have failed. Sold by all druggist?.
jiJUSOIV’S
indESTRUCTIBI
Eia
6d. and. 1/- per Bottle,
absolutely indelible.
■ WILL NOT INJURE THE FINEST FABRICS.
NO HEAT REQUIRED.
Sold oy Draper?, Chemist). B ft'ionera, Oilmen, Storekoepe s, Sc.,
DANIEL JUDSON & SON (LIMITED), Londun and New York.
Glticura
l.lS>
Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
Scrofula on r>cck-
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
Disfiguring humors, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, jfimpiy, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cdticttra Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticuha and Cutioura Soap, tee
great Skin Cures and Beautiflers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peouliar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cutioura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three dpses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Boalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
fat years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors ; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send ior our sixty-four page
“ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases. ’
Australian Consignees,
r. Towns & Co., Hew South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the ©beat Skin Cube (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and lesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Bemedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and A e w
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura SoAr, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soar, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared by the
|Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
ARTHUR MARTIN £ COMPANY
(Established 1860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
and (Commission agents.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &c„ from the Southern
Colonies or New Zealand, may be made to Arthur
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
Her Majesty the Queen p
H.R.H. ihe Prince of IVaies.
HM. the King |of the Netherlands .
m
lira
Agents lor New South Wales J
H.I.M. the Czar of Russia.
TRAPP & ELLES,
54 MARGARET STREET, BYDNEY.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic-
Doloreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary ! In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from thoec who have recovered through
its can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. A, ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
531 George-street, only.
C. LOUGHNAN,
Importer, Manufacturer, & Wholesale Dealer In
TOBACCOS, CIGARS, CIGARETTES,
And TOBACCONISTS’ GOODS.
The Largest Btock of above in South Sydney to
select from. ,
Manufacturer of the undermentioned Registered
Cigarettes “ Lord Carrington,’ Our BoyiL
“ All Nations.” “ Prince Imperial,” Our Girls,
Boston Bride,” and our " Soudan Boy.
Tobaccos —“ Boston Navy,” "Prince Imperial,”
"Soudan Navy.”
Sole Agent for
PARNELL’S HOME RULE NAVY TOBACCO.
A large supply received In stock. Bach plug a
reasonable week’s supply. Priee 6d.
Warehouse and Stores:
639 and 714 GEORGE STREET,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
71
3 RAH*
BE
TREATM ENTEBBE}
Dr E C West’s Nerve and Brain Treatment, a
maranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions,
Fits, Nervous Neuralgia, Headache, Nervous Prostration
laused by the use of alcohol or tobacco. Wakefulness,
Mental Depression, Softening of the Brain resulting ] li
insanity and leading to misery; decay ,_ and death, Premature
Old Age, Barrenness, Loss of -Power in either sex, Involun-
tary Losses and Spermatorrhoea caused by over-exertion of
the Drain, self-abuse or over-indulgence. Each box contains
one month's treatment. ss. a hex, or “* *?* S | IX
by mail prepaid on receipt of price. We Guarantee fcix
Boxes to Cure any Case. With each order reeeived by
us for six boxes, accompanied with 255., we will send the
purchaser our written guarantee to refund the. money if the
treatment does not effect a cure. Guarantees issued only by
JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
65 MARKET SEREET, SYDNEY,
Circular sent free on application.
£lOO Reward!
We will pay the above reward, for any case of liver com
nlaint, dyspepsia, sick headache, indigestion, constipation or
costiveness, we cannotcure with West’s Vegetable Liver
Pills, when the directions are strictly complied with. Rney
are purely vegetable, and never fail to give satisfaction'
Large boxes, containing 30 sugar-coated pills, Is. For sale
by all druggists. -Bewaae of counterfeits and imitations.
The genuine manufactured only bp
JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
65 Market-street Sydney, N.S.W.
Sent Prepaid by post on receipt of Is. per box in stamps.
w w w
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMFNT.
Infallible remedy for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
Gout, Sprains, Cuts, Burns, Scalds, Bruises, Headache,
Mumps, Hip Disease, White Swelling, Felons, Chilblains,
Whitlows, Chapped Hands, Frozen Feet, Bites of Insects,
Sore Throat, and all diseases requiring external application.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers.
Price, Is. and 2s. per Bottle.
JOHN C. WE6T & CO., Sole Proprietors,
SYDNEY, CHICAGO and
TORONTO.
GOOD NEWS FOR THE MUSIC
LOVING PUBLIC.
A BRANCH OF THE
MUSICAL IISTROXEIT
DIRECT SUPPLY ASSOCIATION
Is NOW OPEN at
674 GEORGE-BT., SIDNEY,
With the Largest Stock of Musioal Instruments in
the Southern Hemisphere,
AT LONDON PRICES, BO per cent, less than
Sydney prices,
Direct from the European manufacturers to
the Australian consumer.
4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 9/6. 12/6, 17/6, 21/-, 25/. 80/.
45/, to £2O.
Specialty : The German-Anglo, In wood box, 2V-
„ Ditto, superior, with steel notes, 3sr
O
ACCORDEONS s^SM*WSfSII
Specialty 1 tj.£?{&“”• Stm-
-10/6. 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Specialty: Old Copy Violin,with case, bow and
instruction book, 35/-.
CORNETS, - " l>#/ -
Specialties : The new “ Levy ” model,
with wa*er key £5 5 0
H The new " Reynolds” model,
with double water key .. 9 10 0
The new “ Reynolds" Echo-
attachment Cornet .. 12 10 0
From 1/6 to £lO.
About 100 varieties in stock.
Specialty : The 8-key Cocoa D Concert Flute,
with slide-head, in case, by
beet English maker SC/-
THE SYMPHONETTE!
In nickel silver, with six tunes, 30/-.
Extra tunes, 1/- each.
From 5/6 each to £lO.
The “ Walter Howard ” American Nickel Banjo.
£3 3s.
Kg” Brass and Drum and Fife Bands furnished
throughout. Negro Minstrel Troupes fitted out.
C arionets, Violin Strings and Fittings, Flageolets,
Drums, Guitars, flarmonicons, Tambourines,
and, in fact, an assortment of every class
of Musioal Instrument, from a
k’i&!j to iH Digit
All instruments acked and forwarded
to any part of the ciea.
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
MANAGES.


THE BURDEN OF A CONSCIENCE.
SIR HENRY: BOOH-OG-OGH! “I ALWAYS DID THINK MY RELIGIOUS PRINCIPLES
WOULD INTERFERE WITH MT SUCCESS IN POLITICS!”
Any day between 8 a.m. and 6 p.ao. the
dinner jets, vases, tea sets, statuary, washstand
sets, fancy glass, impoited by those princes in
their way of business, whose ibowrooars are at
file and 404 George-ttreet, may be inspeoted by the
public, §nd the proprietors, Messrs. Bray, will be
glad to afford Information in connection with the
exhibits*
Marie Briz&rd I
When buying Schnapps, be sure you
obtain the srennine Wolfe's Schnapps.
Dyspepsia, biliousness, nervousness and
miserableness all cured with Hop Bitters. Genuine
made by American Co. See
Marie Brizardl
Cararick’s Cod Liver Oil & Milk
PEPTOJHSED (DIGESTED.)
llignly recommended by the Medical Profession throughout the world as being
the best remedy for Cotighs, Colds, Bronchitis, Scrofula, Wasting
_ Diseases, Consumption, Getie#g,l Debility, over-taxed brains, &c., &c.
it will produce au immediate gam in flesh and strength.
Can be taken when all other forms of Cod Liver Oil are refused
It contains about equal parts of tl#Wt Norwegian Cod Liver Oil and concen-
trated fresh milk, both peptog'ised /digested).
Hie peptonised milk disguises the UnpLaiUnt taste and smell of the oil, and
1 “v, f lfca f sweet as cream; very palatable and most nourishing.
Invaluable for children, and will agree with the most delicate persons, causing
no_ return or unpleasantness.
One satisfy anyone of the great value of this new and unique pre-
The reconstructive or nutritive properties are five times greater than the
Both tSfn-1 I °J n^ T °^ h , er . Emulsion, hence it is much cheaper.
• ie Milk being digested, the whole will assimilate, whereas
in cod Laver Oil and other Emulsions (being undigested) only a small
proportion is of any value. It is the most uerfect Emulsion evar
made, and the only one of digested Cod Liver Oil and Milk
nalysed and recommended by the first Professors in Europe.
YVe also manufacture the above preparation combined with Hypophosphitea
Tu C .<.TT^i..„?° 1D BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIM., LONDON.
Carnrick’s Soluble Food for Infants, Invalids,
Md Aged Persons, is the most nutritious, palatable, and easily-digested Infant’s
£d°fift d: >® ont f in i ngtiftyper cent, of the solids of milk (digested),
and fifty per cent, of the finest wheat, eon verted into soluble form. V
A most perfect food. The nearest approach to Mother’s Milk ever made
231““°““” of &, bon“aua Searing
. tne Vital forces so necessary to health. °
pecmiiy in cases of Marasmus, Diarrhoea, and Cholera
Children 1 ’ W i here the is defective.
Umidren fed .upon cereals or cow’s milk alone very often remain weak, and
orderf ! r ° m B °S enin " of the bone8 > and when attacked by infantile lis-
imi t 0 reBiBt the inroads 0f dlseasa -
C SOLUBLE POOD" is invaluable for Invalids
■' fnmarl™ Persons (who cannot digest farinaceous food), as it is rich
.j and B £lt!f Vl and / aSll 7 • lges ? ed albumeuolds > thus increasing both flesh
Ttn»J a fc gt r h ’ and restoring the vital forces.
-' Whenbiofied in a powdered form, and will keep indefinitely.
b d d o ii, rr ® d f D °L th r ee mmutes it is ready for immediate use!
•^,¥ALTINE_I|A^FAC , mRING H !co!, S LIFTED, LONDON. I
THE
PAUL LIEBE
Richly J^EcoMHfNDd
BYT HE MEDICAL
jpACULTVL
%d^y o '
iiEßiti
NUTRITIOUS
RETAINED AND
DIGESTED WHEN All:
OTHER KINDS OF FOOD ARE i
REJECTED. AT ALL CHEMISTS IM |
~ 1061 20 02BOTTLES
0 ARNOLD BBRIOCES t
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO is the best, purest
and most fragrant preparation for the leeth.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; such
Howlands’ Odonto has always proved itself to be.
ROWLANDS BUKONIA is a beautifully
pure, debcste, and fragrant toilet rowder, and
nas lately been much improved. Each be* has
inside the lid a certificate of purity from Dr.
, Hedwood, Ph D, F.C.B , &e. Sold in three tints :
' white, rose, and cream.
ROWLAND*’ MACASSAR OIL can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 30 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elutot Bros.
E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
D" RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND-
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Bold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E. Prosser
and Co., Pitt-sfereet: W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge; Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spuriouß and worthless Imitations.
Noqe genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
JT. BUTTERFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
ttreet, Red fern.
Xjin.eEL (3-loss
Mile
The Great Lirer Remedy.
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
Slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys,
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
Imm edlate relief.
434 GE.RGE STREET.
0
|^j
' 0£
m is
x z
0 O
TRADE MARK—“TONIC NERVINE.”
46AJj JB, OKUtAIN, & SPEEDY CORE lor Her-
rous and General Debility, and all complaints
spring: from laex of nerve force, &e Neuralgia.
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, jJosa of
Vppetlto, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Jornplalnts, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of vital Power
k-o. By its tonic »ud soothing effects It at once
removes all craving for Alcohol. By Its rlohoegg
to phosphor “us ana other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE nour-
»»hej *nd gives vigour <9 she whole system
Price, 4j. 61. Sold everywhere. Prepared only bv
MARSHALL BROTHERS, Sydney, N S W •
Loadon, Eng.
TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
H
OLLOff AY’
PILLS
A ??7r^ f8ilI ? ? I pmed y in all Derangements of
the LIVER and esTOMACH, they may be used with
perfect confidence by young and old
Their world-wide fan e lor the last fifty years is
a guarantee of their efficacy. Thousands of testi-
monials, from princes to peasant-, attest their
marvellous virtues.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford st , London
ET* Purchasers should iooh to tfce Lahel on the
Boxes and Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-
street, London, they are spurious.
Dr. BELL’S BITTERS
NEVER KNOWN TO FAIL.
It CURBS where all other MEDICINES FAIL, as it
acts DIRECTLY and AT ONCE on the KIDNEYS,
LIVER, and BOWELS, restoring them to a healthy
action. It is a safe, sure, and speedy cure, and hun-
dreds have been cured by it, when Physicians and
friends had given them up to die.
IT IS BOTH A SAFE CURE AND A SPECIFIC.
It cures all Diseases of the Kidneys, Liver, Bladder,
and Urinary Organs, Dropsy, Gravel, Diabetes,
Bright’s Disease, Nervous Diseases, Excesses, Female
Weaknesses, Jaundice, Biliousness, Headache, Sour
Stomach, Dyspepsia, Constipation, Piles, Pains in the
Back, Loins, or Side, Retention or Non-retention of
Urine.
lIEED THE WAEITIITG.
Br not heeding the warnings of Nature, many persons
are laid up on a bed of siekness and suffering for weeks,
months, or years. There is hardly a disease that
attacks the system which is not preceded by symptoms.
Let these symptoms be attended to and the disease
will be nipped in the bud. Note the following..—
KIDNEY
DISEASE
/ Pain in Small of Back, Pain in
Loins, Flushes of Heat and Chills,
with Disordered Stomach, Bowels,
Headache, Weakness, &c. In fact,
Kidney Complaint appeal's in so
many different ways, it Is im-
I possible to name them all.
I Dr. Bell’s Bitters has cured some
lof the most stubborn fc*ms of
I Kidney Disease ; in fact, has never
\been used without good'effect.
DYSPEPSIA
! Variable Appetite, FaifltGnajving
Feeling at l’it'ef'Stomach, Bad Taste
in Die Mouth, Feeling of Weight and
Wind in the Stomach, Bad Breath,
Headache, and Constipation, Dr.
Bell’s B'itters will positively relieve
any of above symptoms, and cure
Dyspepsia.
Any one of the above symptems is not sufficient to
cause any alarm, and many persons do not pay any
attention to it until the symptoms multiply, and they
discover disease has made great inroads, and possibly
firmly established itself in the system.
Note. —Any poor Person, or the manager of any
Hospital, Asylum, or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Hitters gratuitously, upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Upspel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
Bell’s Bitters
Manufacturing Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND & AUSTRALIA.
' BUT6HEE, FEHMW3O., Sydney,
AGENTS FOR
New South Wales & Queensland.
PgBBKS!^
IStolfl
»
R
ESSENCE^IIFE
Tpfe only infallible remedy for
Xer/oi/s JjebiLijyT
THERE are many men In this colony who are,
day by day. melancholy, miserable, and a
burden to themselves, through early Indiscretion
or over-indulgence. It Is to those that this adver-
tisement Is addressed. Impotence drags Its victim
In its unhappy train through years of suffering,
rendering his existence a misery. Re sees his
fallow beings hale, hearty, and vigorous—in the
full enjoyment of manhood’s greatest privilege -
and naturally becomes despondent, seeking soli-
tariness, and shunniDg society generally.
He is lured into trylDg some of the So-called
Remedies, but without avail, and imagines he
mußt go down to the grave a hopelesi invalid. If
such be your calamity, know that your case can
bo relieved and a Cure effected by a simple course
of this Invaluable Medicine, which will, in the
short space of Four Weeks, render you capable
of appreciating and Enloying Lit .
This valuable remedy affords relief, and perma-
nently cures all who suffer from Wasting mid
Withering of the Nervous and Muscular Tissues,
Spermatorrhoea, and all Urinary Deposits, which
cause incapacity and degenoraey, total and partial
prostration, and every other exhaustive derange-
ment of the system-regenerating all the im-
portant elements of the human frame,, and en-
abling man to fulfil bis most sacred obligations.
The directions are very simple, and require no
restraint or hindrance from business. Pamphlets
enclosed in each case with testimonials.
In eases at or four quantities in one, for 365.;
if by coach, 2s. 6d. extra. City apd suburbs free.
Agents for Sydney:
Messrs. W. BARCLAY & CO.,
43 Goulburn Street,
One door from George Street, South.
Parcels, packed securely, and free from obser-
vation, sent to any pa-t of the colony on receipt
of Notes, Pf st Office Order, or Postage Stamps,
with the greatest promptitude.
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
Yhe best Ibowts remedy for RHEUM ATI? M,
f-XTRALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHAC/L,
Rains 9 BRiriSESj d scalp &c and
aken internally enree DIARRHOEA, Y.
CRAMPS, OOLIC’g andl *ll other s.utfcraa aches
md pains
4?3*ic© 9 12/ = Soldt Everywlieiv
6o E. MOULTON, son °rq? i; riR e '
MELBOUENL AND o . DNEY


Mabel.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Downcast eyes and looks demure,
Mabel, this I know,
You are always very sure
When ’tis better so;
Then your dress so simple is,
Soft and comme il faut;
I translate your smile to this—
It is better so.
I have seen your brown eyes flash,
Mabel, strangely bright;
Seen beneath your eyelid's lash
Scarcely mellow light;
Bather startling first it seemed,
What it meant I know:
’Twas not like the dreams he’d dreamed—
Was it better so ?
But a year ago it is,
Since your downcast eyes
Gave soft answers unto his—
Mabel, they were lies;
He was kingly, brave, and true,
What you were you know;
Scorn of him recoils on you—
And ’tis better so.
Basking in a mother’s smiles,
Gold enough, I trow,
To become you in your wiles
As the fashions go—
You will find some sunny day,
BeapiDg as you sow,
That the fates will have their way—
For you, better so.
Debts don’t outlaw, Mabel, dear,
Of this kind, you know;
And your notes of hand, I fear,
Would rate rather low;
Just a lien on yourself
Suits; ’tis not so slow;
Human hearts don’t count by pelf—
Even better so.
And sometime at rout and song
“ She is quite fand -
Been out, too, so very long,”
Cruel lips will say.
People, dear, do say such things
So malapropos;
Little bees have bitter stings—
Well, ’tis better so.
Is your power so very sweet—
Does it pay to win ?
Tares are never reckoned wheat,
Mabel, it is sin.
Be a woman as you may,
Let the siren go;
Shall I greet you thus some day ?
Far, far better so.
Horatio Gilbert Parker.
Sydney, July 19,1886.
Carmen ad Dianam.
(BY AN IMPECUNIOUS DEVOTEE.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Diana! white marvel of marble,
What wonder of mystical grace
Doth deck thee with charms as a vesture ?
With sweetness surpassing of face!
What dreamer’s fond visions begat thee ?
What visions of beautiful things ?
What longing—what ravishing rapture ?
No mortal's dull fancy-lent wings
To scale the far-faint empyrean,
And draw thee to earth from the skies ?
Prometheus— lighting thy marble
To life with the light of his eyes!
0, mystical, magical maiden I
Miraculous marvel of art!
We can’t solve these little conundrums,
But yours is our own little dart.
Chaste goddess of magical beauty,
White wonder of exquisite taste;
We’re in the same fix as yourself, dear—
We’re also exceedingly chased!
One hundred and twenty aborigines die in
N.S.W. annually.
J. B. Neild says “ he can’t And any such
verb as "stonewall” in the dictionary. We
strongly advise J.B. to look up the synonyms
for Jaw Bone.
AtDeniliquinonce an Irishman, arraigned
for stealing a bottle of whisky, sought, in a very
Hibernian manner, to throw cold water on the
charge by asserting that the whisk y was of an in-
ferior brand. Mr. Dailey,who was prosecuting,
remarked, however, that it was a well-known
principle in British law that when an Irishman
stole whisky it was always the best.
A correspondent, “Silex,” complains that
although there are 5000 persons at the Prospect
Waterworks, there is no resident medical prac-
titioner. Men die here unattended. A seene
of dying misery occurred here the other
day which discredits our common humanity.
Yet is there about £60 fortnightly retained
by the contractors as contribution to a sick
fund.” We publish these astounding state-
ments, not vouchiag for their accuracy, but
in the hope that should they unfortunately be
true, immediate action will be taken in the
matter.
A correspondent, writing to a Sydney
daily, suggests the erection of a hall for the ac-
commodation of those unfortunates who having
only the “ key of the street ” at night are com-
pelled to sleep on kerbstones and gutters. The
idea is worth a lot of support. A slice of the
Patriotic Fund would be well bestowed, but the
treasurers of that money are holding on to it, pos-
Bibly in anticipation of a war between Dubbo and
Bega. ________
Do not impose upon your customers by substi-
tuting an imitation for the reaJ Wolfe'B Schnapps.
Look for £1 orders in large bottles of Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Borne More “Peeress.”
The Town and Country Journal’s “ Peeress ”
now promises to prove rather a disreputable sham
after all. Last week she appears under the new
style of “The Daughter of a Peer,” and the
Jernil does not even say whether she is a legiti-
mate daughter or not. To pass her off on an un-
suspecting public as an actual peeress was cer-
tainly playing it rather low down on the bush
community, unless the paper which she ornaments
with the boDy end of her intellect is prepared to
prove that the son of a Queen is necessarily a
King, or that the offspring of the Town and
Country is necessarily a jackass. The bogus
peeress is still discoursing about “ Wales,” but
having left off writing in a semi-obscene manner,
she has degenerated into something like the sedi-
ment at the bottom of a sermon. Among other
valuable items, she gives two examples of the
British Heir Apparent's correspondence with
Lady Mordaunt, a subject which one would
imagine to be about as sore a one as his unpaid
tailor’s bill, and a little the more disagreeable of
the two to the daughter of a peer. In the more
interesting of the epistles H.R.H. drivels about
some long-forgotten period when he had measles,
or softening of the brains orjiomething of the
kind, and writes as follows! -
“My dear Lady Mordaunt,-I cannot tell you
how distressed 1 am to hear from your letter that
you have got the meas'es, and that I shall in con-
sequence not hare the pleasure of seeing you. 1
have had the measles myself a long time ago, and
I know what a tiresome complaint it is. I trust
you Will take great cafa of yourself, and have a
good doctor with you. Above all, I should not
read at all, and I suppose you will be forced to lay
up for a time. The weather is very favourable
for your illness, and wishing you a very speedy
recovery, believe me, yours most sinoerely,
ALBERT Edward.”
Ye gods I “To lay up! What a pity that the tutorial
eye of the reverend Dalton, under whose auspices
“ Wales’” sons have developed so great and unex-
pected a fund of literary expression, was not per-
mitted, in the Interests of the Queen’s English, to
wander over the platonic little epistle of the
future Defender of the Faitht "I have had the
measles myself a long time ago 1 ’ Great Scott 1 We
ask Baron Carington and the aristocracy of Potts
Point (some of whom have big sons and
daughters proficient in grammar) whether
the publication under the sign-manual of
the great and glorious Albert Edward of
such an awful example of muddled tenses
is calculated to advance the cause of Imperial
Federation—whether it is not; on the other hand,
calculated to incite Woolloomooloo to open rebel-
lion, and sow the seeds of sedition in the most
fashionable quarters of Woollahra. The “daughter
of a peer,” we observe, is still suffering a little from
the recollection that her brass fetich once dined
with Leon Gambetta, and it is very probable the
great French statesman, on his part, is even now
looking down—or up, as the case may be—at this
mortal earth, and vowing that he will never, never
do it again. Wales, according to the hired Town
and Country aristocrat, does not keep a diary,
which is one redeeming feature in his character,
but he seems to have “ kept” almost everything
else on which he could lay his hands, barring the
Ten Commandments. However, if he should pay
his long-looked-f or visit to Australia, the colonists
will have a better opportunity of judging his
value than is likely to be good for their loyalty,
and we can only express a hope, in conclusion,
that the next time the “ beeress ” dips the split-
end of her reputation in the ink-pot, with a view
to writing society news for export to this country,
she may find a more interesting, as well as a more
respectable subject for discussion.
A cordial the marvel and admiration of the
world — Wolfe's Schnapps-
Our bold Australian cricketers
Havo won new wreaths of fame,
And shown how truly they have learnt
Old Eoglaad’s premier game;
While Messrs. Summerfleld and Co.
All competition mock,
By selling off at half cost price,
A London bankrupt’s stock.*
Wolfe's Schnapps, certified by the medical pro-
fession as the purest spirit procurable.
A BIG BOOM 1 !
The Sale of the Bankrupt Btoek of Messrs.
Lormer, Phillips, and Nephew, clothiers and out-
fitters Cheanside, London, bought at a great dis-
count by &UMMEFFIELD and CO., has caused the
greatest sensation Sydney has ever known. The
Goods, in addition to being wonderfully cheap, are
of a high-class character, and we strongly recom-
mend our lady readers to satisfy themselves of the
bona fide character as early as possible. SCMMER-
FIELD and COMPANY, Merchant Tailors, 235 and
237, Pitt-street. Sydney.*
The only perfectly pure spirit procurable—
Wolfe's Schnapps.
fX\HB BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES :
64 PITT-STREET, and 638 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital...
Reserve Fund ..
£1,000,000
675,000
This Bank has Agents in all the Principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN. Acting-Manager.
f ATKINSON'S >
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Medals—
PARIS,Ib7B; CALCUTTA,IBBI,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson's Newest Perfumes
FAGKiEA & CYMBIMTJM
are of rare and peculiar fragrance, and being
registered can be obtained only of the
Inventors or their Agents.
ATKINSON’S QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the growth and
improving the appearance of the hair,
guaranteed perfectly harmless.
ATKINSON S FLORIDA WATER
an exceptionally tine perlunve for the hand-
kerchief, distilled from the choicest exotics.
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers —
J. & E. ATKINSON,
21, Old Bond Street, London.
w Trade Mark—“ White Rose” on“ Golden a
fck I d‘ re -" m
■'VT'ERVOUSNESS, LOSS of ENERGY and
J 3 STRENGTH.—A Gentleman, having tried m
vain every advertised remedy, and discovered a
simple means of cure, will he happy to forwaid
particulars to sufferers on receipt of stamped
directed envelope. „ _ ,
Address—“ Confidential,” G.P.0., Sydney.
WILLIAM FLEMING. 22 & 24 CLARENCE BTREET, SYDNEY
Fleming's
RELIABLE
BUEBIBS.
FIRST GRADE,
STYLE,
QUALITY
and
FINISH.
USED by ALL the
Leading Citizens.
NOT HOW CHEAP,
BUT HOW GOOD I
t
FLEMINGS
I WAGGONS
and
Harness,
Especially Imported]
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
■with Side Springs.
WAGGONS,
With Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Call andlnspeet.
ORGAN'S !
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
“ SMITH.”
BRUCE & MASSEY,'
PIANOS, OH, MUSIC.
197 Pitt-st , Sydney.
OFFORD & CO.’S HATS
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
Next to Koyal Hotel, and at 652 George Street.
nm
SIM
orivs
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label on every bottle
bears their Signature thus —
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SA UCE is genuine.
Ask_fr,t LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse and
Blackwell, London, drY., Cr’c. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
. ~
i Wholesale Agents : Montefiobe, Joseph & Co.; David Cohen & Co.* Sydney#
ţ
The "LOUIS”
' VELVETEEN;
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin- teal 1 Velvets at
four'times the plice. For Costumes and
Trimmings it is unequMfedy a-nd in fact
for all purposes in which! Silk Velvet
may be used we sjP&SSailly recommend
the “ LOUIS" VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of " Louis."
May be bad from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
ť
£ „«tV '
ŧ
GOT '*\
gjj i
lShoe Bazaar
252 a Georjfe £ t
late Peafe cuuP ffarc&urb SyDPJEV^
IbwN^OTS
y [bh^y
yi month '
*0
\
im
&
Tramway Land 3alb Rooms
Cfyatufoi*-
_> Street '
'1‘;:V_-V r
ff,
v‘- r . 'r" 1 -.
"’l i 3 =; V \—.z.: IE;
.3 . ;..«,-"\ A2; '5 ‘9 ‘x\
J :4: . ‘ ~-, ~‘» ~
- 9% 315 1:: _ - \‘\ :. ;:‘
3:; :2}??? , z,\ ~ _
‘i; ff}? ‘ .'0 ' 15:3 6
Elf: , 3 ..»'~’9/ 9? ~s'
:7 a 33,3. ‘2 i» , a ; ‘13: x a-
1,22% $46.. ..I~ ’ ‘~: ,5
, 7432‘" :
.74 a 27' 1:: \l_
AGUARANTEEwith
each pipe for real
Meerschaum and
Amber.
Fire-proof Briars. Bepairs, &o.
B. ROSENTHAL, Fipemakei,
1 Llitie Colllns-street, East, Melbourne.
Illustrated Catalogues on application
HE CLIMAX OP PERFECTION
MONTSERRAT
LIME FRUIT JUICE SAUCE.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
G
ENTLEMEN’B CLOTHES REPAIRS®
AND CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH ? L STREET,
Near Market-street.


“The intended Picnic to Sir John Robertson has been indefinitely postponed.” —Sydney
Daily Paper.
SIB JOHN: “CONFOUND TOUR PICNIC. DON’T YOU KNOW I’VE GIVEN UP POLITICS,
AND PICNICS ARE THE WORST PART OF POLITICS.”
Marie Brizard I
There is no recruiting medioine so prompt
and efficient as Wolfe’s Schnapps.
In Sydney Parliament, for three long days,
The fierce Freetraders line a stonewall stayed,
•Afld told how ad valorem duties would effect
The port, the country, and the country’s trade.
No wonder that their talk was like the winds
That o’er the western mountains whistling
sweep,—
They feared these duties would stop Summerfleld
From selling his cork tweeds so wondrous cheap.*
Render the system disease-proof by taking
Wolf’s Schnapps.
Remember that a little Hop Bitters saves
big Doctor’s bills, and cures when all else fails.
Dont take unless Am. Co.’s make. Read
Marie Brizard I
Wolfb’s Schnapps is sold by every respect-
able publiean. Accept no other.
Marie Brizardl
Don’t be put off with any fictitious brand.
Wolf e’s Schnapps is the genuine article.
The drought in hew South Wales to some
Has brought a world of woe,
But splendid pants are cheaply sold
By Summerfleld and Co.*
Marie Brizardl
A cheering cordial for the despondent.
Wolfe’s Schnapps,
Chairman suspended Mr. Shepherd for one
A suspension that will soon be put to test:
But everyone who wears and has tried them says
at once
That Summerfleld's suspenders are the best *
Marie Brlzard I
Always ask for Wolfe's Schnapps and take
no other article.
Marie Brizardl
The world-renow? »d tonic and stimulant
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPOSTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
OWING GEAR, Brass i Nlckal-platsd SHOP FRONTS,
.Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &o.
Brass and Bell Pounding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Ooppersmithing, BlaoksmithingJ
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Kleetric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every desenption.
BOULTON’S “PLUSH-OUT,’’ " VALVB.” & "PAN” CLOSETS, “ VACUUM ” WATER-WASTB
PKBYHNTEO&B, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Beaters, Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 A 8 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
_ Pull particulars and prioe on application.
■oobbrt bwtghbr * o;o.
(Lute William Look),
mr WINS AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
BAW VASELINE.
A
51
HORJSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, ITerse Clippers,
Collar Check and. Serge, 40 and 44 inches ;
Large assortment of Baggy Harness, Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s Saddles, Spurs, and all kinds of
■ Saddlers’ Ironmongery, &c.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
SADDLERS, AND SADDLERS
IRONMONGERS,
125 YORK ST., SYDNEY.
'I.HE NEW SOUTH WALES PKOPVRTV
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED^ 7
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
l iL W i nter ß st l 18 followsS EVEN PER CENT on
Axed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT
VARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
SBranch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
J« V, WAREHAM, Manager,
Narrow Escape.
** * BOCHESTEB, June J, 1883. “ Ten Years
ago I was attacked with the most Intense and
deathly pains in my back and —Kidneys
“ Extending to the end of my toes and to
my brain!
** Which made me delirious !
“From agony ! ! ! I
“ It took three men to hold me on my bed
at times !
“ The Doctors tried in vain to relieve me,
but to no purpose.
Morphine and other opiates 1
“Had no effect!
“ After two months I was given up to
die ! !!!
“ When my wife
heard a neighbour tell what Hop Bitters had
done for her , she at once got and gave me
some. The first dose eased my brain and
seamed to go hunting through my system
for the pain.
The second dose eased me so much that I slept
two hours. Something I had not done for two
months. Before I had used five bottles, I was well
and at work as hard as any man could, for over
three weeks; but I worked too hard for my
strength, and taken a hard oold, I was taken with
the most acute and painful rheumatism all through
my system that was ever known.
I called the doctors again, and after severs
weeks they left me a cripple on crutches for life!
as they said. I met a friend and told him my case
and he 3aid Hop Bitters had cured him and would*
cure me. I poohed at him, but he was so earnest
I was indueed to use them again.
In less than four weeks I threw away m v eru tohe«
and went to work lightly and kept on using thl
bitters for five weeks, until I became as we l as
since™ VlD<r ’ aDd have been 80 for 6lx years
It has also cured my wife, who had been
B V?k f ° r jeais ; and has kept her and my
chfidren wen and healthy with from two to
three bottles a year. There is no need to be
sick at all if these bitters are used.
J. J. Berk, Ex-Supervisor.
“S&SSS “iW Wl,e ' SiBter <
“ Can be made the picture of health I
* !$£ a few bottles of Hop Bitters !
Will you let them suffer 1111"
Prosecute the Swindlers !!
If when you call lor American Hon Bitters (see
green twig of Hops on the whitelabel and Dr Soule's
name blown in the bottle), the vendor hands out
anything but American Hop Bitte?s refuse it and
shun that vendor as you would a viper; and if he
fnr “, one y f ° r anything else indict him
n ft, rau , d and tn Ue * or damages for the
vtetidn’ and W 0 WiU PBy you Ilberal| y for the con-
Never Travel Without It-
Wanted in Bvery House*
mi
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS
ALtNOXIOUS INSECTS
FLEAS,FLIES BEETLES MOSQUITOES.
COCKROACHES.AF°HA c * AND IS
At THE SAMEI Tl M E QU itE
HARMLESS TO BI RDS DOGS
FOWLS OR OTHER'
t
is
immacmmwiozwl
germuaouana ....- . .
Wanted in Every House.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
CH
PATENT
LLS
PI
ay
&
$
4s
©
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
.Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushing's of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &o. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
done it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For femal.es of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few dosfes of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions., and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is rfo medicine to be found to equal BEECH AM’S
PILLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the system. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,’"’ and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengtlfen the whole musonlar system., restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These fire “FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &e., these
Pills stand unrivalled ; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints npefl only try Ong Box
to prove that they are the best ever ojfered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and ©ppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
gffiicted with the aboyp distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous eomplaiats. Lei any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Beecham’s
Cough Piles a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be
removed.
Caution.— The public are requested to notice that
the words “ Beecham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery,
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d.
each. —Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
are given with each box.
The New Furniture and
Carpet Warehouse.
jus:, Lins Eros,, & Co.,
39 CAB TLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
AT
Less than English Prices.
EIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
With three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING ROOMS,
At the Exceeding y Low Price of £5 15s
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER SUITES,
At Correspondingly Low Prices.
Furniture for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY.
THE DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING-ROOM.
BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEADB,
in Great Variety.
JONES, LAWSO¥~ BROS., & CO.
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
FREE BY POST, for six penny stamps, a
Medical Treatise, by that eminent French
Hospital Physican and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Man
hood, &c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address Parisian, P.O. Box 766, Sydney,
n
LIMITED,
356 Gearga-straet,
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
PIANOS, ORGANS
and
KUS I p
BEST MAKERS, LOWEST PRICES
BAST TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM,
Every Instrument Guaranteed,"]
Catalogues Sc Prices on Application,
W. H. PALING & Co
SSff Bcrte-street, ,ydti„.
BOOKS. BOOKS. BOOKS.
Bought, Sold, or Exchanged
9 000 VOLUMES New and Secondhand
r* t-S y'J 'J 'J Books always on view at
WILLIAM DYMOCK’S
BOOK ARCADE, 2OS PJTT STREET, SYDNEY.
Catalogues post free.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
BULLARD’B great sale or
MUSIC, STATIONERY, and FANCY
V> . Expiration of Lease, and Condemnation
of Premises. Continued Great Sale of Music
Stationery Books, Fancy Goods, including the
most extraordinary collection of the choicest
Japanese Works of Arts, Plaques, Bowls, Cloisonni
Vases, &c., the whole of which must be cleared
out. Discount S 5 ner cent, reduction on the old
?£<<*« Music.—Thirty shillings worth of m sic at
the old prices can now be had for One Pound This
™d stock comprises, amongst other items.
Sheet Music, Songs, Solos, and Duets
Piano Pieces, Solos, and Duets, and all the newest
and most popular Dance Music 81
Church Music. Anthems, Psalters, Services, &c.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety
Book Music—all the most popular works
BOOKS comprise every kind of Literature-Pre-
sentation Volumes, in prose and verse ; Books
suitable for prizes for boys and girls- Nantienf
W orks, Books on Engineering and Sufveydng
Dictionaries, &3.; and a choice library of Reli
gious works, by standard authors.
JAPANESE BRONZES, Wall Hangings Em-
broideries, Vases, Plaques, Fans, Ash Trays
and Tea Trays
PHOTO, ALBUMS in Plush, Morocco, Leather
and Calf, profusely illustrated, all sizes. at
wonderfully low prices
ACCOUNT BOOKS, Ledgers, Day and Cash Books;
Press Copying Books in every style and bind-
ing, or made to order
LETTER PAPER, Envelopes, the cheapest in
Sydney. Bamples and prices may be obtained
on application.
HANDBAGS, Purses, Card Cases, Photo. Frames
of every kind and description ’
ARTISTS' MATERIALS-Solid Sketch Blocks.
sssauw p “ nt bom ’’
Music Catalogues gratis on application.
Goods forwarded on receipt of money order nr
postage stamps.
WILLIAM BULLARD.
842 HEORQE STREET.


BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
In England the balance of strength in
cricket has been transferred with marvellous
rapidity from batting to bowling 1 . Hitherto
the cry has been that English bowliog WBB 'weak,
and that batsmen had it all their own way. this
year, however, the Bngll-h bowlers are asserting
their supremacy in an astounding fashion. me
wet season has'helped them, but this coes not al-
together account for the unprecedentedly low
rate of scoring. The advent of Spoffortn and
Co. in England has induced their best bowlers to
make a study of pitch and pace, with the result
that they are now able to take advantage ot a
difficult wicket when they get one. 1 eate and
Watson bowled unohangea through the two Aus-
tralian's innings at Manchester, the former cap-
turing 12 wickets for little more than 4 runs per
wicket, and the latter 7 wickets for less than 5
Pew parallels can be found for this in English
bowling ; and yet it in quite in keeping with their
form this season, as the week bef ire Peate took J
Sussex wickets for 21 runs, and Watson 7 Derby-
shire wickets for 15. English amateur bowlers are
little behind, as the performance of Messrs. Whitby
and Cochrane against “our boys’ at Oxford will
show. At one time, Spofforth’s figures of 15
wickets for 36 runs in a first-class match would
have scared every county club in England, but
now the Britishers are not so far beeied such per-
formances themselves.
* * *
In the second innings of the match Aus-
tralian Eleven v. Yorkshire (won by the Austra-
lians with six wickets to spare), Scott went in first
and carried out his bat for 67. In the final over he
scored three sixes and one tour, making a total of
22 runs for the over.
* * *
The following are the highest soores made
by each of the Australian jileven:-Jones, 151;
Scott, 123; Bruce, 106; Jarvis, 96 notout; Palmer,
94; Glffen, 78; Truruble, 56. not out; Garrett. 49,
not out; Bonnor, 49; Blackham, 43; M Ilwraitto,
39; Spoffortb, 37; Evans, 27.
* * ■
“Eairplay ” writes to The Bulletin, ask-
ing now it is that the always-attraotive list of
boxing eve'nts announced to come off at Foley's
rooms, Saturday after (Saturday, is rarely or .ever
adhered to. Our correspondent bluntly remarks
that Foley undertakes to supply a certain thing
for a certain amount, and should carry out his
oontract to the letter, falling which he should step
forward and give a full and satisfactory explana-
tion of his default. It is very evident that “ Fair-
play ’’ has never run a series o f boxing encounters,
or he would know what cattle “pugs.” are to deal
with. For instance, a couple of boxers are hilled
to appear on a certain evenlDg, and if they do
meet, the odds are they have fixed ud the event
beforehand, and either a light and elegant tap-
ping-match comes off, or one of them is
knocked out before the bout is half through,
according to agreement. We have seen a deal of
the game, and commend us to tne introduction by
the*MC. of “two friend?, gentlemen,” which is
usually followed by a right down slogging en-
counter. Foley’s Saturday night 3 are now an
institution attended by the Sydney public of all
classes from city aldermen and members of Par-
liament upward, and It is only under the Iron rule
of Larry, that our correspondent, who states him-
self to be a lover of the “noble art,” may hope to
nniov an orderly evening with the mittens. So
■far as the Jackson-Leas affair was concerned, the
writer was, to a certain extent, behind the scenes,
and he knows for a fact It was not till the after-
noon of the day they were hilled to appear that
Tackson’s backer had definitely stated that he
would not allow his protect to W, with the
nrosDect of a match with Lets, which, by the way,
has since been ratified. Intimation of this change
should certainly have been given to the audience
before the performance commenced, but, failing
JhVa Fnlev did the next best thing and himself
boxed with Peter Newton.
• * *
We would ask our correspondent if he was
•nresent at the match between MCarty and Smith
at Fnlev’s Hail on Friday last, where else he could
see sued a slashing encounter carried out without
a rowdy scene from the onlookers? Both men
have graduated from Jackson’s stable, and the en-
counter was one of the best seen here for many a
dav. Smith is a flae young fellow, but appeared
rather overdone in bis training, while M’Carty,
as usual looked the stayer which he must be to
withstand the heavy body punishment doled out
bv Smith, who Is a hard hitter. In the fourth
round Smith had his man beaten to a standstill,
hiit he threw away hjs opportunity, and the
minute’s spell pulled A’Cirtby tegether again.
After this it was anyone's fight until the eleventh
round, when M’Carty got in a lucky one on the
point of the jaw, which knocked smith “groggy.”
Snd M'Garty was declared the winner. Smith is a
youngster, not yet out of hi* teens, and pro-
mises great things for the future.
$ * *
Saturday was the last evening of the
fKTonrton Lees-Foley combination, when the chief
Attraction® as the meeting of Newton and Foley
in a fast and scientific three rounds Lincoln has
w a Ini nf his “ bingey,” and in his bout with
Pablo showed himselt auythiog but a pick-up at
the game. Peter Jaokson bustle 1 his clever pupil,
Ban Hickey, through three rounds, and litt'e
Pluto, the young gentleman of colour, as usual,
cave away a lot ot Bizi, but rendered a good
Recount of bimself. Tne little beggar is plucky
as a soldier-ant, and in confidence told us the other
dav he is only waiting for a chance to have a shy
nt* Peter Jackson, but he says it must be to a finish,
lees kept hifkind promis , to Mblloy, and knocked
him out, and th s usual stock performers made up
\the evening.
* * *
We hear Peter Sullivan and Joe Donnelly,
the celebrated boat builders, have dissolved part-
nership. Donnelly is keeping on the shed in
Woolloomooloo Bay, and at present has his hands
more than full in the light craft lne. He his
Ust finished a string-test gig for the Sycneys.
knd we understand, has an order from the same
club for a clinker outrigger four. The Glebes,
wWh have a leg-in for the Champagne Cup at ttu
Association Regatta, intend to make a big struggle
to win the Cup permanently, and with that view
have given Joe an order for a fou*. to be a
“linker ” in every sense of the word. The semor-
nftifn&r race on the Association programme will
bring into existence an entirely new style of craft
Port Tacksom, and we have heard that two of
the olubshave next thing to ordered boats from
‘‘old J 03.” » * *
The writer saw R. Matthews, the youngster
who is matched to row Gascoigne at the end or
the month, out in bis wager-boat, i.a Johnsons
Bav on iunday last, when he seemed to be getting
ffnnd pace out of his boat. Matthews was inclined
fo skim ?he water with his sou l-blades on the re-
„„d feather under water, but be may have
been new to the work in his craft. For his siz ?,
Matthew is a real good one, but It is feared ha
wifi nev W er be big enough to give him a chance of
rising to the top of his profession.
* * *
Reciprocity is not th<9 watchword of the
Boriinr rowing club. The Fydaejs are never be-
yond going lor a pot at other club regattas, but,
»s usual, they have not left an open race on their
programme for 21 it August.
• * *
The following Rugby footballers have
hPfin selected to clay a*ainst the Q leenslanders
on 24 h July:-Mess-8. G. Walker. J. Wood, P.
Ghanaian. C. Caird, A. M’Arthur. E. Cameron. C
SnhCrds H. Lee, L. Neill, A. Hale, F. Bayliss,
HnngerfordV J. O’Donnell. M. Webb, Carr:
emergencies—C. Cameron aid S. A. Tiley.
* ♦ *
It is a pity for both parlies that the
hiPpeMsts ana Lancers cannot come to an arrange-
ment over the clashing of thair meetings on 14th
August As matters now stand in the attraction
Knelt is Con. D vyer, the record-smasher, versus
Charley Carlngton, the Lanceah Masher, with a
shade of odds on the smasher, as Carlngton is not
going to perform, as was reported. The bicycle
event is an annual fixture, and was the first in the
field, In face of which the military men should
undoubtedly give way, more especially as the
Agricultural Ground may be obtained by them
almost any Saturday. We feel sure, if requested,
CariDgton would promise for another day, and not
spoil sport.
* * *
Metropolitan week will be a gala one for
the Sydney boxing fraternity, as both Jackson
and Lres, and the rival amateur champions of Vic-
toria and N.S.W. are set down for decision therein.
On public form Lees should beat Jackson, as the
Sydneyite was twice beaten by a man who was
defeated by Lees, but this line of comparisons is
not always a sure one to go by. Jackson, in our
opinion, is a much-improved man to when he
boxed Farnan, and should he goat Lees in the way
he boxed Dooley, he will take a lot of “ doing.”
m • •
The old Prince of Wales was run down
outside Sydney Heads by the Peterborough, on
Friday morning, owing to the jammiDg of her
rodder-chains. Before the one boat arrangement
came into vogue on the Parramatta, the Prince
was an identity on the champion course, in the
Tr ckett cum-Rush-cum-Laycock days, and with
or without the permission of the Marine Board,
she was In at the death with a greater certainty
than the pound a head boats. Two men went
under with her, but this was as nothing compared
to the men Tommy Waterhouse has talked to
death on her decks. We recollect on one occasion
Tommy, who in his day was no end of a bruiser,
getting into high argument with a man on board
over the merits of a couple of scullers The
stranger talked fight when Tommy shrilly re-
marked: “Do you know who I am ?’ “I'm
Tommy Waterhouse I.’ “ I wouldn't care,” calmly
replied the stranger, “If you were Thomas Pa*-
liament House, Rush is still the better scullti of
the two.” And Tommy collapsed.
* *— *
In Franc?, M. Bouy, the owner of the
celebrated mare Plaisanrerie has announced his
racing stud for sale. M. Bouy rrf used an offer of
£l3 0 0 from the Americans for Piaisanterie dur-
ing the winter months, but since then she has
broken down.
* * *
In the Rugby football field this season, the
two far and away best clubs have been the Gordon
and University, and we were naturally surprised,
when the composition of the N.S.W. representa-
tives came to light, to find that the two crack
clubs have only three men each in the team, while
the Wallaroos have four men and an emergenqy.
This may be all right, but on paper it seems to
want a lot of explaining. The Brisbane contingent
are expected to arrive about noon to-day (Thurs-
day). Their stay, inclusive of trips to Newcastle
and Maitland, will last about a fortnight, during
which period they will play thre9 matches in Syd-
ney, two Intercolonials, on 34th and 31st of this
month, and one against the Juniors on 2nd August.
The matches take place on the Association Ground,
and, 88 all “ club” matches on the dates mentioned
have been declared off by the Union, a big attend-
ance will no doubt show up on Saturday next.
* ♦ *
From the London Sporting Times “ A
most interesting event took place in Romano’s
tols week, when our shifter was Introduced by
Harry Lane to Mr. Barney Thompson, the cele-
brated Australian bookmaker. Fancy, whispered
the Conkster to the Roman, fancy the bliss of
taking the Antipodean knock! The utter joy of
going with the gloves for a man who has taken
his passage to Sydney, and must start before Mon-
day.” Alter all, there mightn’t be so very much
j oy for any man who west with the gloves for the
Barney Thompson, thinking that he had a “soft
thipg.”
■ 80
A little sentiment is mixed up with the
victory of The Last Request in the Victorian
Waterloo Cup. The dog lormerly belonged to the
late “ Tommy ” Dodd, SirW. J. Clarke’s trainer.
Tommy thought very highly of the son of Castor-
Mint, and before his death, expressed a strong
wish that it should be nominated for the big event.
Hence the dog’s name. That poor Tommy was
not at fault in his estimate of the young one’s
promise, is proved by results. Being a dark ’un,
outside odds were procurable about The Last Re-
quest on the night of the draw, and the “ stable ”
supported their pet to win some £lBOO at a very re-
munerative figure. Had the Sydney dog, Mon-
arque, pulled through, the “books ” would have
fared considerably worse than they did.
* 8 8
Lovers of the bat and ball may like to
know that Spofforth’s average, up to the time he
was disabled in the match against the Gentlemen
ot England, was 643 balls, 71 maiden overs, 221
runs, and 33 wickets, or nearly seven runs per
wicket.
* * *
Ocean, the winner of the Grand National
Hurdles at the V R.C. Grand National meeting on
Saturday, was such an outsider that when the
wire came through to Sydney, a rush was made
for the list, as very few knew there was such a
horse in the race. His pedigree is unknown, and
he star ed at 20 to 1. Game, at 3 to 1, won the
Grand National Bte°ple from Native; tne Maiden
Hurdles fell to Sir Luuncelot; Wiekliffewon the
Maiden Steeplechase; Problem turned up the
winner of the Selling Hurdles; and Gardenia
brought the meet to a close by winning the flat
race.
8 * *
A bookmaker, by no means a leviathan,
stated la a London Court of Justice, that his parn-
ings for the past year amounted to £18,125
“ Mostly Fools!”
• ■
The veteran Alfred Shaw seeing to have
lost very little of his old accuracy of pitch. Ia
the return match with Nottingham, ha took four
Australian wlcketß for 20 runs, not a bad per-
formance for a maa in his 45th year. Considering
how the standard of bowling has been improved
since Shaw first made his reputation, it can easily
be understood that he was formerly regarded as a
phenomenon. A good yarn is told of the first
occasion wbe l young Alf. Shaw essayed to lower
the pride ot youDg W. G. Grace. The bowl ?r had
openly exDressed his intention of getting the
rising champion's wicket in five overs. Alter an
hour 8 trying, somebody asked the Nottingham
maa " what he thought of Grace now.” "Well,”
said Shaw, “ I put the hall just where I pleases,
and that puts the ball just where he pleases.’
A volcano, supposed to be extinct, has
bien discovered in Tasman'a, and a Chinese mis-
sionary, accompanied by a few amateur scientists,
has started out to poke up the sleeping monster
wi h a pin and see if he is quite dead. Perhaps,
a'ter the recent experiences in New Zealand, they
would be wiser to iet the animal alone. In that
colony misguided men have been treading for 40
years on the curly tail of Nature, dropping bricks
down into geysers, boiling potat es in the hot
springs, and throwing extinct cats iato the silent
craters of Tuawera, and at last the outraged
goddess has humped a whole district into kingdom-
went as a warning to pseple who won’t leave her
a one.
The practical utility of the Victorian tor-
pedo-boats has now been satisfactorily proved.
All sorts of unkind remarks had been made about
tn-8 branch of the fleet. Captious critic 3 asserted
that even ia the p ping times of peace, with
noththg to ilirry thtm, the torppdo-cIH iers never
landed their dea ly missiles within haif-a-raile of
the object aimed at. It was insinuated, in fact,
that a Victorian torpedo couldn’t hit anything by
aiy chance. The captious critics, as usual, were
all wrong. While practising off Geelong, a torpedo
fired from one of the boats made a two-foot hole
io the hull of an aoj c?nt steam-launch, which —
oh I irony—was employed in fishing for another
lost torpedo. Considering that thsre were no
otner vessels in sight at the time, this must be re-
garded as a moat encouraging experiment. Only
one object to hit—and the torpedo made a bull s-
eye at the first attempt.
AUSTRALIANA.
The Albert goldfield was grieved when, on
June 30, Fred. Connors was laid to rest... AI2J4 Inch
centipede has been found in a navvy 8 swag at
Cooktown. ...A Hamilton (Vic) resident asserts
that, from personal knowledge, he can place a very
different complexion On the ease of the W.A.
blacks as stated by Rev* Mr. Gribble, concerning
whom, says the Hamilton Spectator, very sense-
tional rumours are in vogue—A man near Coon
amble thus advertises his movementsSkec-
daddliflg j for sale oheap, tools, grindstone, and
sundries. Persons indebted to me, pay up; vice
versa, send bi 115.... A teacher in N Z has suicided
through overwork. He bad quite forgotten the
commandment which says “ Thou shalt not do any
work.” At Mount Morgan gold-mine they
keep 40 men now to chuck out "jumpers”
and roll them down the hill "Wales”
is not coming to Australia, Hooray I
AU the policemen sent to Howlong, Murray River,
go mad.... The Day Dawn mine, Charters Towers
—a £6COO cake of gold from which is on view at
the Indo-Colonial Exhibition—yields regularly
over 1700 oz. gold per fortnight from, say 850 tom
of stone.... The colony of Victoria has only 14,000
riiles and 5000 revolvers available in case of in-
vasion. The Melbourne correspondent of the
Globe yells for "300,000 rifles of the best
pattern,” at the very lesst. The Cabbage-Gar-
deners think they’re the envy of the universe
In Charters Towers (Q.) they have found out a
new way to make the unhappy shareholder pay
up the calls on his wi'd-cat shares. They get an
order from the judge that everybody is to settle
up and then run in the defaulters for eontempt.
It comes much cheaper than suing them in the
Small Debts Court,'and is ever so much more effec-
tive A Maryborough (Q ) man advertises in the
local paper that he has married the "great grand-
daughter” of a baronet. The strain of aristocratic
virus is surely, as Pasteur would put it, somewhat
attenuated Mr. John Gill, M.L.A., happened to
be in a Tamworth hotel which caught fire last
week. Had Mr. Gill been as drunk as were a lot
of M.P.’s the other day he would now be dead
The " squattahs ” on the Darling have discovered
that it is not worth while to stop the shearing cn
account of a dispute re half-a-orown, and are now
paying £1 a hundred as before The champion
mean man turned up in Sydaey last week.
He committed suicide with a borrowed revolver
and a cartridge that was not paid for
At Port Macquarie Joseph Metyer, for stealing a
box of pills, has got two months More Grovel!
The Indo-Colonial Exhibition people are giving
“ Wales ” a piece of plate in recognition of "his
services.”..At Tamworth (N.S.W.) William Ander-
son, 10 year 3 of age, has got six months’ gaol for
libelling Clara Snape, aged 15 The popular
sentiment used to be, “ See that my grave's kept
green.” When Dr. Creed’s Cremation Bill passes
tW3 will be changed to "Oh, keep my ashes
bottled, dearest!” In England, the “ Union
Boot” is advertised, and the "Imperial Unity
Gas Stove.” We are not likely ever to use such
names in New South Wales. “ The Carlngton ”
is still the title for >verything,"from a hat to a
hash-house A Queens'and writer editorially re-
marks, “ We drank nearly 3 000,030 gallons of rum
last year.” He seems to have had his jubilee in
1885 Inhaling fumes of sulphur is said to cure a
crold. Whole heaps of Australian churchwardens
will not bejbothered with colds in another world,
if their own creed is true—Melbourne Punch, in
a picture alleged to represent the recent Tas-
manian fatal railway smash, shows a double line
of rails. Now, poor little Tasmania only possesses
a single line, and she barely supports that...." For
every mouth that is honestly fed, one pair of
hands must honestly work,” says the Sydney D.T*
Salaries must be low on the Telegraph if one
pair of hands is needed there to keep each mouth
going.... Rev. Charles Strong says he would except
parsons from the operation of the Early Closing
Act. Symes says all parsons will have to shut up>
sooner or later—Bourke (N.S.W.) people don’ 1
want a water supply. Of course not. They have
already got a brewery.
It is quite saddeniag to read of the de-
cease of Bell’s Lira in London on May 29th
last. Founded in 1823 Bell’s Life was for many
years the sporting paper of the world. Even after
the advent of the Sporting Lira, the old j lurnal
held its own fairly well under the editorship of
the late Mr. Dodd, but when the London Sports-
man became the leading authority on racing mat-
ters, Bell’s took a back seat altogether, and was
scarcely to be found anywhere but in the parlour
of old country taverns. The paper will always be
associated with the palmy days of prize-fighting
in the memories of old sportsmen. Whenever
dispute? arite as to the exaot age of the “ Bloom-
ing Chic Sen” when he fought his celebrated 93
rounds with the “ SmiliDg Badger,” the dispu-
tants will wipe away the silent tear as they re-
member that it is no longer possible to get an in-
fallible an?wer by writing to Bell's Life.
Dear Bulletin, —I am a medico residing
in the tropic;—North Queensland-amongit sugar
p ant era and Mongolians. The latter are in num-
ber double the European copulation; every plan-
tation has its China tovr. On reading your
paragraph in The Bulletin of June 26 about the
ex cation of the lepor, Wong Chong, in Brisbane
the remembrance of former teaching came to me.
When I was attending a great London hospital
Mr. Jonathan Hutohinson, the most eminentliving
authority on diseas :s of the skin, brought cases of
leprosy to the students for inspection. I recollect
one day in particular when three lepers were pre-
sent, all of whom had acquired th 9 disease abroa 1.
“Gentlemen,” said the great surgeon, “come
here, see and handle these lepers for yourselves.
Leprosy is not a centagioui disease, as was for-
merly taught. [Mr. Hutchinson referred to the
Mosaic law, no doubt ] Leprosy is a distinct disease
of the skin and lymphatics. ;it is a disease peculi .r
to people who are excessive fleh-eaters, and pai-
ticularly to those who have a morbid desire for
badly-cured fish. The disease is generally found
on the sea coasts—[again referring to sacred
teaching, for instance, the Sea of Galilee.] None
of you, gentlemen, need hesitate to become
urgeon to a leprosy hospital.” lam now satisfied
from experience that Chinese leprosy, anyhow, is
associated with Chinese fish-eating, and that it is
non-contagious, and but a m'rbid or perverted
growth of skin produced from imperfect or mal'
, nutrition.—Yours, &c., Pro Bono Publico.
"S
NOWFLAKE.” “SNOWFLAKE.
THE KEROSENE OF THE DAT,
from the Refinery of
LOMBARD, AYRES & CO., NEW YORK,
combines
BRILLIANT ILLUMINATION.
PERFECT PURITY,
THOROUGH CLEANLINESS,
ABSOLUTE SAFETY.
It 18
HIGHLY REFINED,
WATER WHITE,
NON-EXPLOSIYE.
Iftiles. FIRE TEST.
Has only to be used onee to establish a position
In every households
PURCHASERS SHOULD, AT THE SAME TIME,
ASK FOR THE WAMSUTTA WICK.
.JIHE WORLD’S PEACE.
The part played by the most insignifloant agents
in provoking a breach of the world’s peace Is nearly
always underrated. An underdone pork chop may
play old Harry with the peace of two mighty em-
pires, while a twinge of rheumatism or a colicky
baby can upset the “ Love in a Cottage ’’ businesp,
and introduce the very demon of discoid into a
pious family ia less time than it takes to draw the
cork of a St. Jacobs Oil bottle; and this marvellous
oil is a sure antidote to all the troubles, as shown
by the thousands of testimonials over the names
of live people, who will be happy at any time to
back up their statements by verbal assurances of
gratitude and faith.
i/kH, K
74-
AGAfNi
|J\HE WONDERFUL WATERBURY.
Claims an unbeaten record of success. It has
brought happiness to tens of thousands Testi-
monials to its worth are being constantly received
from grateful purchasers. Here are a few more
from Queensland :
I have seen some of the Waterbury Watches
about here and they are flrst-elass. They cannot
be beat.
John Wittmann,
Nanango.
All Waterbury Watohesreceivedin this neighbor-
hood are going splendidly.
Edwin Nelson Hampson,
North-street Toowoomba.
lam much pleased with my Waterbury Watch.-
A. F. Walkeb,
Gin Gin, Bundaberg.
Sir,—l have received the Waterbury Watoh all-
right. It is worth three or four times the money, -
being a splendid timekeeper.
Hart J. Joseph.
Seaforth, Burdekia, Townsville, late of Home-'
bush, Mackay.
Manager of Figaro,— I received the W. Watch
quite safe, and am wearing it, It keeps excellent
time. It has already secured you several new sub--
tcribers here.
G. Gaynor, Maryborough.
Manager Figaro,—l have received one of youF
Waterbury Watches, and am perfectly satisfied'
witn it. It keep 3 excellent time. A number of
my friends are going in for it, Please forward one'
to , Gayndah.
John George Moeller,
Mount Perry.
Sir,—l enclose, &c. This new arrangement will 1
save me 3 1. 6 j., aid will bring me additionally into
possession of a Waterbury, a watch I can recom-'
mend from personal knowledge.
Ludolf Wittenberg,
Toowoomba.
Manager Figaro,—l reoeived the Waterbury
watch all right, in a good cas9. I set it goiag, and
find it to be a splendid timekeeper. It has been
going since I got it, and has not lost a minute. I
think you wiil get a good few orders from here
n.w. All the boys are charmed thatlshowel it toV
William Colles,
Gymplev
These Watches can be obtained fromMessrs*
M'Lean Bros, and Rigg, George-street; Illsley.-
Uoubleday, and Co., Market-street; Capper Bros
West Maitland ; Mason Bros.; Fsldheim, Gotthelf
and Co.; Lazarus, Rosenfleld and Benjamin; L.
Saunders and Co.; T. Willis and Co., A. M‘Arthur
and Co., M'Gregor, Harris and Co., George street;
Plummer and Owen, George street; Myers and
Solomon, George street; Braby Bros., Castlereagh
street; and Walker, Lemon and Co.
WATERBURY WATCH COMPANY,
54, MARGARET-STREET,
SYDNEY.


ll-
D C man
br&ac
_ BnfiT «™«w care trom tee
Tn v» " UDUH * 82(1 therefore
*
l 1 *
,o &UteS D ICJBt oo^ani
A NOH D1PO!
A 3
Ko. 2 , "
Reyal Arcade,
they supply
f Coff l ee * Cocoa, *c„ wlte
<Qt re lreahmenta.
OM. "
* e «rt i j < °ramay bo left for delivers
the -
W&itita, recommended in puimc
Md fee Co. t Limited\
••• SI Harbour-strei
•• Wverpool-atreet
••• Mlttagon*.
ţ
?EMELX/S
*
superfine
WHEAT
C>7 1»ilt„l t „^ 1 , dmoBt approved
i'-'inr™.""?:..
mnery -
ANtL L ° W ’ and toe QUALITY
'0 » 0 JUtTMD TSeVgooD?
* u *°V^ oOa IIU,
- *®-*trt«t, Sydney.
ť
t
SINGER
and Cto.’s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap.
JOHN DAMS,
SYDNEY.
ŧ
--
JMSST /SQf/iSKS ISKF «SSi/
9jf
300
SHOES
■ft™
HAUTHAWAY’S
OLD DEUABLE '
Peerless
A necessity in every
family. It blacks and
polishes Ladies’ and
Children’s Boots,
Rubbers and
Satchels, without
brushing. Always
£ives satisfaction, j
NSjft s|?®- ,s conceded to bs
a (j STAtIB&RD.*’
y&soms,
Srcss Street, Boston.
mass., u.b.a.
°*bftrP G MATTERS
STREET
%fEsrs*xi*nt
SHAPES.
_>JJAllace,
»?• Lqte* 7 M BQrlmonot
ft " e Man fife and
sS&Ste
•ftfoT
riwlTtd fey
s#», ITimax
Th following goods
ARE VERY VALUARLE.
Dr. Jones’ Corn Paint, Is.
Asiatic Liniment, 2s.
That Modern Appetiser—The Australian Relish—la
A. Boyer’s Baking Powder (free from alum), 6d.
Page’s Custard Powder, 4 in box, Is.—makes two
quarts fine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linctus, for coughs, Is.
Clayton’s Nervine, for toothache and cold in the
gums, Is.
Dr. Barbarossa’s Cantharides and Russian Bear’s
Grease Oil, for covering bald patches and pro-
ducing whiskers, 2s. 6d.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAYS MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
177, 268 and 266 PITT STREET.
rfina REMINGTON TYPE- WRITER.
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY, KABE,
CONVENIENCE, ECONOMY.
mr THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER saves
labour, stationery, and rime, vrritiDg mucb
faster than export penmen, and condensing matter
to less than one-half the spaee occupied by pea
writing. Beautiful copies may be taken in the
usual manner in the letter-press. Merchants,
bankers, solicitors, clergymen, edito rs and authors,
reporters, and all men or business should use the
type-writer, and save much valuable time.
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY and CO-
-410 Kent-street.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1889.
INCORPORATED by ACT O* PARLIAMENT,IB73
Paid-up CapitaL .„...^.8300.001|
Reserve Fund. *155,000
Sir John
Mo
9P
George S.,'
MLC,
Hon. Philip
ey
C. Soileeton, Esq., O.M.
Chairman.
AtfoAonar
Jsa. Bcrogsrie. Usqf
H. *. Cohen. Baa.
iirSBOTSHAIi M4.KAOBBJ
F. A. A. Wilwrai
ombuhaky:
Hector Allen*
brahcem eh nhw South Wj
', Pyraa ont, Sedlem, —“*
ily, Parramatta, St..
Newcastle.
Bbanuie in Qumnslahd :
London Bbahc
Laadenhallnrtreet.
issued Shat . _
Baul Samuel,K.C.JK-G
Geo. P. SJade, Baa.
Geo. H. Alexander. Baa*
iovln<
The Matio
: of England
phis bank transacts all uuaial Banking andFinan
cl Agency Business on theimost favourablotermg
t Sills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo*
<i other produce shipped to Bog land for sale.
lo Weak, Nervous Invalids, and Others Seekirg
Health, Strength, and Energy.
DR. RICHARDS, |g±SW
DESIRES to inform .sufferers of both sexes that he
has permanently established himself in Sydney,
and may m future be consulted'at his rooms, No. 7
Spring Street, FREE OF CHARGE by sufferers of
both sexes from Nervous and Physical Debility, Ex-
hausted Vitality, Premature Decay, ‘Pains in the Back;
Head or Chest, &c., &c.
Z Cure every case undertakes..
When I say I Cure, I do not mean .merely stop them
for a time and then have them- return again ; I mean
a'radical cure, I have made nejrvou., arid'private dis-
eases a life-long study, and can safely warrant a cure
in every case undertaken after a personal consultation.
Many persons, from the effects of youthful impru-
dence, have brought about a state of weakness that has
reduced the general system so much as to induce al-
most every other disease, and, the real cause of this
disease scarcely ever being f 'suspected, they have been
doctored for everything but the right one. Notwith-
standing the many valuable remedies that medical sci-
ence has produced for th<t relief of this class of patient,
none of the ordinary modes of treatment effect a cure.
During my extensive hospital and private practice in
England, I have discovered new and concentrated re-
medies, and with the use of my extensive Galvanic
Appliances I am in a position to guarantee a cure in
every case undertaken,
Consultation costs nothing, and I will tell you at
once whether your case is curable or not.
DR. RICKARDS, M.R.C.S., ENG.,
No. 7 SPIKING- ST., (off Pitt-street north,)
SYDNEY.
T
MUSIC HATH CHARMS, &C.
HE ONLY HOUSE IN SYDNEY
that makes a Speciality of
luiical Instruments.
Violins, Guitars, Banjos, Futes. Accordions, Con-
certinas, and Strings for all Instruments.
Musical Instruments of all kinds Repaired.
FOCtONOWSKI'S
> MUSICAL INSTRUMENT WAREHOUSE,
705 George-street, Sydney
DB, BOYD,
POMEROY CHAMBERS, 39 CABTLBREAGH-ST
(Upstairs),
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
Registered Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours:
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. only,
Deformities, Nervous, and Female Disease! a
Specialty,
„ Box HO G.P.O.
ﬂ 1
[as
RBUTER’S LIFE SYRUP, No. 3.
A positive and radical cure for
every form of Scrofula, Syphilis
Scrofulous Sores, Affections of the
Skin and Scalp with loss of Hair
and all diseases of the Blood, Liver
and Kidneys. GUARANTEED to
purify, enrich, and vitalize the Blood
and restore and renovate the entire
system.
REUTER’S HEALING SOAP,
For the Bath, Toilet, Nursery an
the healing of skin diseases of
every kind and at every stage.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
S. Hoffnung & Co.
is M
SASUN 3 a
soya iivHsav^w
HI33IIVI3IJIIHV
ISSk
<3
NV
O
upPL
VI
V
EXTRACT
OF
SOAP
M
aV Jf
P *RRY Si Co‘
NEW
asm
THE MARSOAPIAL V/EW OF HIM J
'■A?A
88
£ *
Messrs. S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Agents.
G. B. ■ODIBI, Gunmaker,
BEGS to announce to his patrons and the publlo
that he has received, by late arrivals, one of
the largest and best selections of
FIREARMS
seen in Sydney. The latest improvements Tin
Breach and Muzzle- loading Guns, Rifles, Revolvers,
&c. Agent for the following celebrated London
Manufacturers : T. Purdy and Sons, John Rigby
and Co., Joseph Lang and Son. Chas. Osborne and
Co., T. Bland and Bon ; also, Bussey and Co., who
manufacture all kinds of Sportsmen’s Require-
ments for the field. A large assortment of other
celebrated makers’ stock on hand from Webey,
Riley, Scott, &c, and the best Continental and
American makers. A choice and complete stock
of Cutlery. Field and Marine Glasses, and Sports-
men’s Supplies in general. Repairs promptly
executed by skillful workmen, and all goods will
be faithfully guaranteed at
602 George-st., Brickfield Hilf, Sydney.
Ins pection Invited. K3T” Price List on application
ZE
Prepared from Pure Drugs and Chemicals by
qualified Chemists in the most scientific manner
to ensure the best action,
FOR NOTHING
is more essential to enable doctors to make quick
cures, therefore we only employ qualified assist-
ants with diploma i in our establishments, and
supply tverjthing of the best quality at
the lowest prices.
T. JONES & CO..
DISPENSING CHEMISTS,
53 Market st., between Pitt and George streets.
Branch Houses:—Crown-street Tram Terminus,
Sur<y Hills; and Suva, Fiji.
Anything you Require from Sydney
forwarded at
COST FRIGE.
fiO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, forwarded free of all
charges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
Jill T. Mints & Co.,
oo pit; street, bydney, n.s.w.
MANHOOD RESTORED I
A Clergyman having tried every known remedy
for the CURE of NERVOUS EXHAUSTION,
PREMATURE DECAY &.C., has at last dis-
covered a simple SELF-CURE, which, for the sake
of suffering hnmanity, he will send FREE the Pre-
scription which CURED him. Address with self-
addressed envelope- QR, £, A. CLARKE,
Box 292, G. P. 0., Sydney.
DR. THOMAS, of 203 Elizabetli-streot, be-
tween Park and Bathurst Strcots, lias)
passed the Royal College of Surgeons of England,
and is the Only medical man advertising in Aus-
tralia who has passed the Royal College of
Physicians of England.
Consult him fior the best and safest treatment
on nervous debility, skin, contagious, and blood
diseases.
1‘1???“$‘i‘i:*:.::i€% f“ 4. “”3“?“
‘ ‘1 N ca r1 AM
gut-”J" WIMAW}1W“lllWlﬂdﬂumnluﬁ'“ " L‘ F E R .
:uPHORBIA PL“ w .
a ‘ . O’ULF—N LN)“ 33;!“
‘4 ,- VGURE ea s K":
M HIMA.B'I cum , cu Hs ,«
m numu cues-.- nrnacnons gig
. " '. I: > ﬁREPARrJ) nun}: IV (3
Wm
IPvy*VY/>Y///A , t
II
*3
■■■■'■(■!■
DR. O COETNTELL,
52 Castlereagh Street,
SYiDjCTiEir, isr.s.-w.
REGULAR GRADUATE in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S.W., whose
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent curesinall private cases, chronic,
nervous, skin and special diseases,
DR. O CONNELL is tho oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent fey post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is frankly stated. Especial attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence,
producing some of the following effects:—Ner.
vousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples on the Pace, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of Pleasure in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
?epsia. Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
'ains in the Back, Stunted Development, &c., are
treated with unparalleled success. Cures per-
manent, safe, and private. Symptom list free, and medicines sent by post.
Skin Diseases, Itching, Burning, Scaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptions
of ove„ry kind, from whatever cause, promptly cured. - ,
It is self-evident that a physician paying particular attention to a class of cases attains great skill,l
and physicians in regular practice all over the country knowing this, frequently recommend cases to
this oldest offico in Australia, where every known appliance is resorted to, and the proved good
remedies of ail ages and countries are used. On ficcount of the great number of cases applying, the
charges arc kept low—often lower than is demanded by others. If you secure the skill, and get a I
speedy t>" S perfect life cure, that is the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free. Call oh or I
addroßa ■» DOCTOR J. O CONNELL,
53 CastlcrchgU Street (gkoun4> floor), Sydney.


THOS
WATCHMAKER,
9
JEWELLER, and OPTIC/AH,
1 A BOURKE STREET, 1
MELBOURNE. f
339 AND 341 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
h«a^o®B*
G aunt’s
Manufacturer of Turret Clocks, Prize Cups, Optical ansi Surveying instruments, ® c ‘
f and
Special Silver Hunting English Lover Watch, strong dust-proof cases, warranted a most cori-ec j
timekeeper. Post free on receipt of P. 0.0. for 6 guineas. A select stock of Gold and Diamond Jew
t3T PRICE LISTS FREE ON APPLICATION.
OALI^AQHAN,
Caterer and Confectioner,
654 GEORGE STREET.
tar WKDDINGB. BALLS. PICNICS, AND PARTIES A SPECIALITY.
107 Fitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECT*
MS- LUNCHEON Al D REFRES TMBNT ROHRS TOR LADTRS^RR
FRY’S
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
J. S. FEY & SOWS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.— Lancst.
MASON BROTHERS
{L—
'71
7“
1‘1“ 5;:1‘711‘11’ ‘
m“ 31‘
W
3w?
; mﬂﬂiiﬁukwli
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent Street,
Sydney,
Here always In BTOCK, for bat-*
to the TRADE and WHOLE.
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
GLASS, CHINA.
AMD
IABTEINWIS
WINES, BEERS, AMD SPIRITS
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SON
Old Highland Whisky
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Comae.
J. T. GA YEN’S
Schnapps and Genera,
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
UNDER THE PATRONAGE OF HI3 EXCEL-
LENCY LORD CARRINGTON.
SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
JUST ARRIVED, ex “ Massilliav” 13 Cases of
the
Finest Egyptian Cigarettes,
specially selected by Mr. NOAke on his tour to
Europe, and being a thorough connoisseur in
Cigarettes, he recommends them to his patrons as
being of the finest quality made.
Also, a large shipment of the world-renowned
“ filler’s,”
whose reputation is universally known by the
smokers of the first quality of cigarettes.
TO BE HAD ONLY AT
J. NOAKE’S ESTABLISHMENTS
320 and 446 Georgwb-st „
AND
Pall Mall, Hunteb-stbeet.
0
A
■r
CO
c^.l
CO
FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
1J Crispness distinguish Wilson’s Ame-
rican “ Extra Toast ” BISCUITS. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and incomparible
with coffee or,ssheese.
TURNER. 8t COi,
Sole Agents.
74 SUSSEX BTB»HT. r RYDW*T.
BUDGEREE!
Trade
•-A
Maul"
NO MORE FEVER;
t /
JM U JMiWAa « V rjo-silg,, a#
destroyer frQm clogetg? bad drainB , &c. Sold at a f p
Depot: JAS. C. STEEL, Bulletin-lane, *■
ma ' l ® S l
MUSIC SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HER
281 GEORGE STREET, STOREY,
Also, at London, mayenoe, Paris, and Brosse
labgsst stock in the
ot°
3T
BULL DOG ALB
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MBDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and
quenching properties of this worid-rcaiowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs offßurton
Beer tnay obtain their favourite beverage in the
.... . orderint
choicest possible condition by ordering BULLDOG
ALE, which is to be obtained of all tha leading
Wine and Spirit Merchanta-KEIGWTN"
HARSTON, Role Agents
and
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW-
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Melbourne &nd X*ondO'&*
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS
“ wcastaohor md whiskers. lEFoif
1Q
@Eg
Voiill’s Beard '.J'lixir did thin,
nil will do if. on either hold
'.cad tn ■ har t? .face- Forces
‘-’J Sfoust etrht- in front- 2 to
leks and timer fails .210,n0O 1 . . . ,
younanen yamrdy wear fall CopiJiHohled.
Copyrighted. en/mni/ wear jnu h'opjnnntea,
indirect lai pitcketl pktS t X oin J ur 'J> easily applied certain
Is - 3/or 3s. Cd. f pout paid, *n n t under
Address, Frank Dougins* tiole Agent,
t/y. m:
COOLALTA WINES,
SILVER MEDAL BOR, 'HEAUX.
CELLARS and BODBG '&»
354 Gt@o?g@-& tewfc
(Beneath Palingr'B.)
1
- JO
rfcCti 0 *
, p en t .
THE highest point o Vj
facture of >g 8# 1
GbntlemeN * ~y
having been reached > Cu st< L 0 Jo° s -d
prepared to supply rut 0 h * s «f .
made of any materia . jf
principle, pB.R?i ..jt ll
vet yp,
and aa we use materials o 9 i 6° i
durability and good A y
A. A. DEBHPLc
is bottb®.
it
ST
01$
tins and bottles ’ j a nis<
Preserves, J , f4 oi
Curry and Muiu»
Duck.&c. t 0 be
etters and orders >
““'“•si SB* 33 Br--"'®*
LATE ROWLANDS A LEWIS,
Naaolaotnror of all kinds of Xrated Waters,, Cordials, and Bitters, a ad Proprietor «»
BALLARA7A MELBOURNE, mud at
31 AND 33 HUNGER STREET, STIWBY.
' the Onty Gola>Medal for Grated land Mineral Waters; alea, another Sold Medal for Li
