

The Bulletin


ASK FOR COLONIAL-MADE
Wire
PROOF
PROOF
ONE^
Netting!
BRAND.
Cheaper than Imported.
MANUFACTURED BY
JOHN LYSAGHT, Limtd.,
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SYDNEY.
MoLEAN BROS., BIGG ft CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
1
o
VJ
o
<fc
S
IRONMONGERS
5
2
X
H/
o
REG- 1 ?
O'
<b
SPECIALITIES:
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
GAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &0., &c.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22>nd 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
FLEMING’S
RELIABLE
BUGGIES
FIRST GRADE
STYLE,
QUALITY,
and
FINISH.
Urns by All the
K—ding Citizens.
NOT HOW CHEAP,
BUT HJDW GOOD!
M
FLEMING’S
WAGGOHS
AND
Harness,
Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Rf« i v.
Call and Inspect
Hardman Bros.
if ii ii i i i i n ,i i inn m in i it miVm
ANUFACTURERf
S£?/
iMUl—l
SDiMIMSIKQIIB £ ilLPiiiAi ‘
Go id£/v Syrup/
AHO 1
Trcacu J,
RFfWFRS //
head office & factory. Newtown
Branch, George S.t Sydney
<£
=. i
C/~2
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguis Wilson’s Ame-
rican “Extra Toast” BISCUITS, For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and incompatible
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Sydney.
Anything you require from Sydney
FORWARDED AT
COST PRICE.
NO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, forwarded free of all
charges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.'
JOHN T. MIMES & CO.,
#0 F*T.T STREET, SYBVKY, K.S.W.
ZCcCbuiH's
baMperi r>*
<ll
3
'JJ*
7S
S 1
rriHs
REMINGTON
TYPE-WRITER
Saves labour, stationery, and time, writisg much faster
than i espert pen-men, and condensing matter to less than
one-halt the spaee occupied by pen writing. Beautiful
copies may be taken m the usual manner iu the letter-press
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agent 3-,
IMRAY & CO.,
&19 K©mt-Bt*eet.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO„
(J. A. ROBERTS, R. J. ALCOCK, G. C. CHALMERS, R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
IRON, HARDWARE, AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS
Importers of
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
RAILWAY and other CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS MINING,
CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDERS’ MATERIALS,
SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES. &e.
ROBERTS CHALMERS&C9
sfc
1
MACHINERY@®IRON YARD.
in i iiiiiiiiiiiiim
ll
SCI
BAR, PLATE, SHEET and HOOP IRON ; GALVANISED, CORRUGATED and PLAIN IRON;
SHEET and PERFORATED ZINC ; TINPLATES; PIG IRON and LEAD ; OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSHWARE ; FENCING WIRE, WOOLPACKS, SHEARING SUPPLIES, BUILDERS’ IRON
MONGERY, ROLLED H GIRDERS; PORTABLE, FIXED, and SEMI FIXED ENGINES, VERTICAL
and HORIZONTAL BOILERS, STEAM and other PUMPS, LATHES, PLANING, SHAPING,
SCREWING, and DRILLING MACHINES; STEAM HAMMERS; ENGINEERS BRASS FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLLED SHAFTING, QUICKSILVER, &c.
Sole Agents for FARMER, ROBEY, and BROWN’S CELEBRATED PORTABLE STEAM
ENGINES ; READING IRON WORKS’ AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS and PATENT PULLEYS j
WM. TAYLOR and CO.’S Celebrated OILS and PAINTS.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS,
Head Warehouse ■
Iron and Implement'Yard-
Bulk Stores - ■ *
CHALMERS, & CO.,
. 54 YORK STREET.
• HAY and ENGINE STREETS.
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR.
S'sriDisrE'sr-
London Office
- 85 GRACECHURCH STREET.
w
liU
MXSUI
TOBACCO WORKS.
S Y D N t Y.
0
<b
Vi
,1^
a' 1
1 ,d e ■<
$/**
Q'
sV
o
'S
r 5 y
OIXSON A SONS
CON
OIXSON A SONS
CONQUEROR
HKACnMC »
YANKEE DOODLB
OIXSON A SONS
SIRROGER
QlXSQfft A SONS fM ' c *
NAILROO
OIXSON A SONS
CHAMPION
OIXSON A SONS AAONMW PUIS 0» flfll
CUT . In Tim Pic«(tfißoji*>
R.C.R U BY. 0 RIENTAL MIXTUH
CIGARETTE GOLD LEAF. Ac jo
COOLALTA WINES
(SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX),
CELLARS and BODEGA.
854 GEORGE STREET
(Beneath Paling’s).
THE GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL,
Charlotte-place and George-street.
K. HAIIEY’S
1 DOZEN CASE
OF
ASSORTED
WINES, SPIRITS, and HALT LIQUORS,
DELIVERED ANY PART OF CITY FREE.
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer.
Order the ldoz. case as you please from the list of
low prices as under, viz. :
Robertson’s Walker or Royal Blend
Scotch Whiskies ... v ... 4s. per bottle.
Dunville’s Shamrock and Burke's
Best brands Whisky or Brandy
from 20s. per gallon.
£3 CASE ALSO A SPECIALITY.
Marks’s Alb, Porter, and Laser Bkbr.
Certificate of merit of the firist-class and silver medal
awarded at the Calcutta Exhibition, and patronised by his
Excellency the Governor’s household, 6d. per bottle. AH
first-class Goods. One trial will prove the fact. Bottle De-
partment of the GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL, Corner
George-street and Charlotte-place. Orders by post solicited.
Mrs. Hanney attends personally on lady patrons.
■csiec
<wi
•foie ( ){'
dfgd
MACHINERY.
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE STOCKS
WITH ALL
NEWEST DESICNS
HIGHEST FINISH
X AT
LOWEST COST!
CRANES
AND
HOISTING
ENGINES;
LAWN
MOWERS.
LOCOMOTIVES,TUGS, LAUNCHES, &6
estimated for complete.
ROBERT COOPER WEBSTER.
AGENT^a
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET.
Melbourne 5'
22, KING STREET,


The Bulletin
Vol. 7-No. 858.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1886.
Price., 6d.
Vogel’s Snore.
What is this ? This is an illustration for the prospectus of a company to be formed to acquire the right of Sir Julius Vogel’s snore : the idea being to telephonically lay
the snore aforesaid on to all N.Z. and Australian lighthouses as a fog-signal.


THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance.)
Per annum .. .. .. J6l Os. Od.
Hall-yearly 0 12s. Od.
Quarterly .. .. .. .. 0 6s. 6d.
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters payable
to
J. 11. HARDING,
tb whom all orders for the paper, advertisements, and remit-
tances should be addressed.
Postage-stamps of any Australian colony accepted for
amounts under £1
Tha Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
correspondence column all contributions submitted—whether
in the form of political, social, or other articles, verse, short
tiles or sketches, paragraphs, letters, or newspaper-clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly eofidential.
THE Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of such
MSS.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling in advance— whioh you may pay by Post Office
Order, One-pound Note, or stamps of any Australian colony
—yon can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Now, by special arrangements, we are enabled to make the
follewing offer, open to all subscribing direct to this offiee,
between September 1 and December 31, 1886.
Anyone sending the cash for six yearly subscriptions, will
be entitled to a bonus of twenty shillings. Postmasters and
o ther agents will understand that we will send £1 to anyone
forwarding us six prepaid yearly subscriptions.
This offer is net open to residents of Sydney. In that city
Che Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in
the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
fere.
IMPORTANT.
The publisher will consider it a favour if any reader
of The Bulletin will forward him the name and
address of any newsdealer who is not selling this paper.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1886.
Wanted—An. Expurgated Bible.
In an era of comparative refinement and
delicacy, when all else has been brought into
harmony with the spirit of the age, the Bible
alone, of all standard literature, stands pro-
minently forward as the evidence of a former
age of coarseness and lewdness. The period
from which the Protestant Bible dates—
from it a majority, including the pre-
sent writer, have been taught—is pre-
eminent in English history for indecency
of speech and licentiousness of marAers. A
Wealthy and leisured class had arisen and
become established in the nation, but they
lacked mental occupation. Their only tastes
were sensual and brutish ; culture was un-
thought of by the aristocracy as a class, and
politics—then consisting almost entirely of a
struggle of might against might—afforded
occupation only to a narrow minority. The
superfluous energy of the wealthy was,
therefore, for want of a better use, devoted
to sensuality and debauchery. Like their
Australian prototypes the ignorant and
purse-proud sons of coarse convict fathers—
the nobles under the Troon and Stuart
dynasties found their chief enjoyment in the
pursuit of vice, and their conversation was
mainly occupied in its recital. Elizabeth,
James L, and Charles 11. used language,
even upon State occasions, which would now
be prohibited in a pot-house, and the Court,
even under the “ Virgin Queen,” was
the scene of open and shameless breaches
of every canon _ of the moral code. The
l<jwer classes, steeped in ignorance and
dominated by superstition, were not slow to
imitate the vices of the Court,.the nobles,
and the clergy ; the infection of licentious-
ness, generated in the reeking atmosphere of
exclusive circles, permeated and poisonecL
the entire populace. The result of this
national depravity is seen in the literature of
the period. Shakespeare’s dramas are too
gross to be performed in the original text,
and wholesale expurgation is made in defer-
ance to modern refinement, yet he was
the cleanest writer of his century upon
any but severely philosophical or polemical
subjects. And little of the literature of the
16th and 17th centuries is popularly known,
the bulk of it having long since been laid
aside as indecent, while what remains
has been saved from oblivion only by
the aid of expurgation. Yet the Bible,
though bearing large evidence of the im-
morality of the age in which it was pro-
duced, has been subjected to no such friendly
treatment; as it was in the days of the
licentious Tudors and sensual Stuarts, so it
is in this 19th century, when even the men-
tion of Hell in newspaper columns is con-
sidered an outrage on the customs of the age.
* * *
It must be distinctly understood that we
do not here venture to affirm or deny the
pretensions of the Bible. The genuineness
of that volume is a question for each man to
settle for himself. We are not now con-
cerned with its authorship or its truth, but
Bimply with the language employed and
some of the stories it relates. Bishop Barry
in urging that the Freethinker should be ex-
pelled from Sydney School of Arts wrote :
“This is not a question of theology but a
question of decency similarly, it is in the
Interests of public decency alone that we
ask for the expurgation of the Bible. And
such a demand is within the clear rights of
journalism, for this is a question affecting
public morals and manners. Every week
from at least a dozen metropolitan pulpits,
clergymen who have never been in a theatre
howl for the purgation of a stage which they
condemn on hearsay evidence ; constantly
denunciations of racecourses are made by
men who have never seen what goes on
there, and if these demands for reform were
based upon good foundation of known fact
they could not be impeached on the grounds
of right ; so we, with full knowledge of
that concerning which we write, urge the
necessity for the removal of incitements to
immorality, and suggestions to vice, now
contained in the Bible.
* * *
It is strange that church people them-
selves have not long since effectively moved
in this matter. There is not at the present
time a greater obstacle to the influence of
Scripture teaching than the grossness with
which this teaching is surrounded. Parsons
urge men to read the Bible through and fol-
low its precepts. The anxious pupil in re-
ligion begins the study, and is almost imme-
diately confronted by a needless indecency
of language which would not be tolerated in
the Evening News. He finds the body of
revelation covered with a mantle of gross-
ness, and, disgusted and offended by the
terms employed and the scenes recorded, he
casts away the Bible for ever ; or, finding
that the obscure passages awaken his slum-
bering propensities to vice, he gloats over
these, and the last state of this man is worse,
far worse, than the first. Or, perhaps as an
earnest enquirer he goes to church in hopes of
profiting by the teaching he may there re-
ceive. He is interested, but unfortunately
happens to find that the reading of Scrip-
ture includes some tale too gross to be
admissible on the stage of the lowest music-
hall. Then he goes away and joins himself
to the great army of social pessimists, and
believing that morality is a lost quantity m
the world, betakes himself to such conduct
as best accords with that view. Similar
debasing effects are noticeable even with the
clergy/ In the Church of England but little
latitude is usually allowed as to the portions
of Scripture read, yet not infrequently this
latitude is used for the purpose of inflicting
corrupt passages, such as minister to pru-
riency and offend virtue, upon the congrega-
tion. Many ministers seem positively to
revel in the chapters most in need of expur-
gation, reading them with a boldness that
they dare not show for the purpose of using
language not one-tenth as coarse outside the
church walls. And to this continual dab-
bling with the indecent may largely be
attributed the frequency with which clergy-
men, despite their high professions and com-
parative freedom from temptation, break
through the sanctity of the marital contract.
Whether a similar influence holds sway over
the church-goers it is impossible to say posi-
tively, but it is unreasonable to assert that
no such influence is to be feared. It is
noticeable that every one of the nine Mount
Rennie convicts are returned as adherents of
various religions. Indecent publications in
the Sydney daily press are frequently alleged
as incitement to such outrages, but it is at
least equally probable that obscene Scripture
passages may have been the primary insti-
gators to evil.
* * *
It is not necessary to dilate at length upon
the various features of this subject. The
evil is too commonly known and lamented to
demand extended illustration. And it is
lamented most by the most sincere of
Christians. They can see that religion and
coarseness, piety and indecency, are not
allied, but at strife with one another; and
they also can perceive that it is disgraceful
that matter, which, on account of moral
repulsiveness, oannot be spoken on any
licensed stage, or published in the columns
of a sensation-mongering evening paper, can
still be exhibited in the book from which
Christian creeds are taken, and openly read
in any chureh to a congregation consisting
largely of chaste and modest matrons and
their innocent and sensitive daughters. The
man who takes ladies to any theatre in Syd-
ney may be reasonably certain that nothing
will be said to offend the most refined ear,
but the man who takes his sisters to church
may have to listen with them to indecent, ob-
scene, and immoral language. The anomaly
is shameful to Christians, but it will never
be remedied until the laity themselves
undertake the necessary reform. The vested
interests of the olergy are too great to
permit of their inaugurating a reform. Once
the ipse dixit of a parson, libertine and
scoundrel though he might be, was deemed
conclusive, but it is otherwise in the present
day. Daily the laity are making the church
more democratic, and grasping concessions
so long withheld by their clerical superiors,
and this concession of an expurgated Scrip-
ture must be the subject of determined
movement in the near future. Churchmen
must demand it in the interest of their creed
itself; those who do not belong to any
church will demand that the reform be made
for the sake of public morality and decency.
* * *
To bring this subject within the arena of
controversy is the first and most important
step towards the desired end. The result-
ing discussion must inevitably lead, although
by slow stages, to the necessary reform. But
in all discussion it must never be forgotten
that “ THIS IS NOT A QUESTION OF THEOLOGY
BUT A QUESTION OF DECENCY.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Boycott the Chinese!
It ia a melancholy fact that the Chinese are chiefly
supported in Australia by that class whom their
presence most injures, and threatens to degrade.
It is the labouring classes who make trade for the
Chinese labourers, whether these latter are furni-
ture makers, cabbage-growers, shop-keepers, or
fan-tan runners. The mean-looking, dirty little
shop of the Mongolian rarely attracts other cus-
tomers than those who have to earn their daily
food by daily labour : bereft of such patronage
the Chinese retail shops would close at once, the
gardens be deserted, the fan-tan tables forsaken,
and an immediate exodus to the Flowery Land
ensue. The Australian w'orkmen are nourishing a
power that, with the attainment of a little addi-
tional strength, will battle with them for their
very bread. Every sixpence spent is so much
assistance to the enemy. And, although the Aus-
tralian mechanic is, by dealing with them, simply
purchasing his own oppression, he can hardly be
blamed for his folly. To him the saving of six-
pence is an important consideration, and over-
powers ulterior considerations. Domestic is to
him of more moment than political eeonomy. And
the result of his purchase is not traceable to a par-
ticular effect. If he did not buy, others would
continue to do so, therefore he finds it hard to
deny himself the immediate advantage. If others
were willing to abstain he would likewise keep
away from the Chinese shops, and help to starve
the enemy out, but to renounce an advantage
which his fellow-workers readily take, seems a
senseless and quixotic proceeding. For this in-
creasing evil there is only one remedy. A “self-
denying ordinance,” or league must be formed
so that distinction may be made between
those w'ho are for the Chinese, and those
who are against them. In the United States,
as well as in various North Queensland towns,
action more or less severe has been taken in the
way suggested. The Chinese shops are watched
and purchasers registered on a “black list;” the
system is that same description of “boycott,”
which, adopted by trades-unions, has been the
means of elevating Labour from bondage to
liberty. The supporters of Chinese are considered
as “ blacklegs,” and social enemies to their united
fellows, and by this means the arms of the Mon-
golian Octopus are amputated. How necessary
action of this kind is in New South Wales the
records of each week,show. New shops are being
almost daily opened in Sydney and the country
towns, and Chinese labourers continually come to
closer quarters with their Australian competitors.
Once Chinese were only employed on stations as
cooks, and that very rarely, then they began to
compete in scrub-cutting, and ring-barking, next
a few boundary riders of the same nation were
employed, and now squads of Chinamen are being
taught how to shear so as to be ready for next
season. Similar advances are being made in very
riiany other departments of labour. Land has
been secured in Woolloomooloo for a Chinese
laundry, and oigar-making and boot-making are
shortly to be “ assisted ” by Chinese labour Only
a few days since when a lawn-tennis ground was
to be laid out in one of the Sydney suburbs a gang
of Chinamen were employed, although 2000 men
in Sydney alone are waiting wearily for any kind
of work. All these things, intrinsically un-
important, are portentous of evil. To provide
against the coming ill there is only one re-
medy—and we have no hesitation in calling it
by its ugliest name—there must be a “boycott”
of the Chinese, and of those who buy their goods
or their labour, or who work for therm, accept
them as tenants, or deal with them in any manner
whatsoever. This is the only way to purge the
land of the Mongolian plague.
♦
The Sydney City Elections.
Last week the oity of Sydney was called upon to
fill up the annual rotation vacancies in the civic
chamber. Eight aldermen were to be elected ; in
three of the wards the previously sitting represen-
tatives were returned unopposed ; and in four out
of the remaining five the old aldermen defeated
their opponents. The only new man sent into the
municipal den was Mr. Jeanneret, who contrived
to poll four votes over Alderman Moore. Ones
would suppose, therefore, that the inhabitants ofi
“ this great city,” as Sydney Town Hall orators are
delighted to call it, are perfectly satisfied with the
manner in which their affairs are conducted by
the municipal authorities. A more crushing de-
feat for the advocates of change of manage-
ment would be so nearly impossible that
we may consider this a complete rout. If
Mr. Moore had only whipped in five ad-
ditional rate-payers the whole crew of fumblers
and muddlers would have got back to the Council
Chamber without the loss of a man. And the
elections must be regarded as a practical endorse-
ment of the thefts, and scarcely less culpable
bungles, that have disgraced the city for years.
The game will now go on more merrily than ever.
The solitary representative of the reform party,
who just secured his election in Bourke Ward,
had better at once abandon all idea of cleaning
out the Augean stables, take a few easy lessons in
the art of polished brigandage, and be hail fellow
well met with the most conscienceless
of his brother aldermen. It is useless
kicking against the pricks, and this Mr. Jean-
neret will doubtless quickly discover. The cause
of this curious result is not hard to seek. In the
five wards where the elections were contested
9844 votes were polled, exclusive of in-
formal votes. Out of these the defeated
candidates scored 4212, so that practically
the issue was decided by 5632 votes, representing
probably less than a third of that number of rate-
payers. The Act of Parliament by virtue whereof
“ this great city” is governed by a mere handful
of persons—a large proportion of whom are not
even residents within the city boundaries —is one
of those measures Sir Henry Parkes is so puffed
up with pride at having been instrumental in pas-
sing. The effect of the law is simply to disfran-
chise seven-tenths of the occupiers, and to hand
the whole control of civic affairs over to the land-
lords. The people, therefore, need not feel dis-
graced in respect of last week’s performance. They
were powerless for any good purposes. The dis-
credit of the business rests with the wretched law
which disqualifies the real ratepayers from voting,
and with those great “Liberal” statesmen who
had to do with enacting that law. The only way
to attack the city council, clearly, is through the
Parliament. The late elections have performed
the signal service of proving this, and if the people
will only exert their power when the more im-
portant elections take place in such a manner that
“ Liberals ” of the Parkes kidney are effectually
brushed aside as impostors deserve to be, the
work of municipal reform will be made easy, for
no truly liberal assembly would tolerate for a
day a state of things in which the real ratepayers
of Sydney are incontinently cheated by the nohii-
nees of a set of grinding property-owners.
Poor Jefferis!
The Pitt-street Congregational Chapel hag been
running for no less than forty-six j ears, during
which time a great deal of noise has emanated
from its walls. The nuisance—for it must be an
infliction to many of the neighbours—has been
borne with for nigh half a century without a word
of complaint. Lately, concerts of sacred and
classical music have been performed in a not very
adjacent theatre on Sunday evenings, and the
horror and indignation of Dr. Jefferis and his
congregation thereat are unspeakable. Last week
Mr. Dibbs was interviewed on the subject, and
coolly requested to cancel the license of the offend*
ing theatre, on the ground that the sound of dis-
tant music interfered with the church service. Dr.
Jefferis explained that his church boasted no
fewer than 500 members, and for the sake of these
500 people he would have the Colonial Secretary
commit a distinct violation of the law in a direc-
tion affecting in a most arbitrary manner the
liberties of the whole body of the public. His-
tory repeats itself with remarkable precision
where religion is in the case. Less than a
century ago the Church of England was at'
tempting to shut up Nonconformist chapels
for reasons precisely similar to those advanced by
these Congregationalists for shutting up Sunday
evening concerts. They were an invasion of the
monopoly of the church to teach, preach, and
edify. But it is too late in the day for such
claims to be seriously considered. The Church
had to give way to the dissenters, and mow the
dissenters will have to give way to the theatres.
Many people who believe in no church desire some
rational and elevating recreation' on the Day of
Rest; and the time is fast approaching when they
will have it, let Dr. Jefferis and his Five Hun-
dred howl and whine as they choose. Nobody
wants to interfere with the Pitt-street chapel, but
everybody is concerned to restrain the members of
that organisation from interfering with the rights
and liberties of the rest of the community.
+
Contradictory Evidence.
When two witnesses flatly contradict each other
on oath as to certain simple facts, the Judge
frowns and informs them in severe tones that one
or the other must be guilty of perjury. And of
all offences in the world perjury is the most hate-
ful to judges, since it imperils and perverts the
administration of justice. Yet Sydney has been
recently affronted by the wrangling of two high
personages—one a Supreme Court Judge, and the
other ex-Chief Justice Salomons— giving two
radically different accounts of what transpired at
certain interviews, and each declaring the other’s
version to be “entirely without foundation.”
Even judicial functionaries, it appears, occa-
sionally resort to false statement when to
tell the plain truth would land them in
a difficulty. After this the Legislature ought
to lose no time in blotting out the crime of
perjury from the Statute Book, while the various
church bodies might fittingly deliberate as to the
propriety of eliminating the Ninth Commandment
from the Decalogue. For if judges fail igno-
minously to obey this law, spiritual and temporal,
clearly it is hopeless to expect much success on
the part of the common ruck of humanity, a*dit is
absurd and cruel to insist upon men being better
than they can be. The variance between Justice
Windeykr and Mr. Salomons is not over a mat-
ter of any complexity or subtlety. Mr. Salomons
asserts that Mr. Windeyer was “ insolent ” in
his mode of “ volunteering ” his disapprobation
of the former’s appointment to the Chief Justice-
ship, and that he persisted in adversely criticising
that appointment despite Mr. Salomons’ re-
peated efforts to stop him. Mr, Windeyer de-
clares this, version of the conversation in re-
ference to be “entirely without founda-
tion,” and asserts that Mr. Salomon’s
“ extorted ” an expression of opinion from
him, which he reluctantly gave. We shall
not attempt to decide who is the furthest from
the truth in this controversy. The whole business
is disgraceful beyond measure. Mr. Justice
Faucett’s candid and gentlemanly admission
that in his first letter to the Press he fell into an
important error of statement, contrasts strikingly
with the rigid adherence to their earlier accounts
by Messrs. Windeyer and Salomons, and is the
single redeeming feature in a pot and kettle game
that would be only contemptible if the disputants
were a pair of fish-fags, but, in view of the position
of the parties, clearly amounts to a scemdalwm,
magnatum.
4.
Mr. B. R. Wise a Convert to
Protection.
Months ago when all the pseudo-Freetrade news-
papers of Sydney “turned dog ” on their principles
and advocated Protection of the iron industry, we
assented that they would ever desert their fan-
tastic theories when put to a similar test. Now,
the most intelligent and keen of all New South
Wales Freetraders, Mr. B. R. Wise, has similarly-
given up all the points of his contention by urging
—while still posing as a Cobdenite —the useful-
ness of extending Protection to native industries.
He does not renounce his theories by advocating
tariff protection, but favours direct encourage-
ment by Government preference of local manu-
factures by bonus and reduced railway fares
and freights. The first plan is a species of protec-
tion which has some serious disadvantages. If,
as Mr. Wise suggests, the Government were to
prefer local tenderers for work paid for by loan
funds, this would be in many cases to restrict the
benefit of one firm and its employes, while the
extra cost would fall upon the whole community.
Thus, if railway engines were all ordered hence-
forth from colonial makers, Mort and Co., and
perhaps two other firms alone would benefit,
while the extra cost would fall upon all who are
liable for the interest on the loan. Under a
system of tariff-protection only those who buy the
taxed article are forced to feel the effect of the
duty. Even with these disadvantages we believe
that direct protection of this kind is desirable for
many important reasons, but under ordinary
circumstances a system which has more of
equity in its incidence must be infinitely pre-
ferable. Bonuses, which Mr. Wise urges as
another means of “ encouragement to native
industries,” are still more inequitable in operation.
Suppose for instance that the Government gra it a
bonus to A of so much per yard on all the tweed
he manufactures. Then A will be able to sell for
a price which will enable him to compete in cer-
tain lines; but though his customers may not ex-
ceed one in a thousand of the population the other
999 must pay their share of the bonus in taxes or
otherwise, in order that A and his customer may
profit. The resultant evil is obvious. Free-traders
constantly allege that the amount of duty to be
imposed on an article is the subject of “ lobbying,
log-rolling, and corruption,” and this although the
benefit may have to be divided amongst hundreds
of competing manufacturers. But under the
bonus system, where the benefit is personal, direct,
and definite, corruption must ensue as a natural
consequence of human depravity. The third
remedy proposed by Mr. Wise is a reduction of
the railway freights. On the grounds of equity


this has still less to recommend it. The railways
at present are a heavy tax—over £700,030
a year—on the community, of whom very
few are railway consignors. A reduction
of present freights would most probably
mean increased loss to be provided for by taxa-
tion : here again the whole community would
lose* in order that a few consignors and con-
sumers might benefit. With tariff protection the
result would be just the reverse. All the commu-
nity would profit by the imposition of duty, for all
would share in the benefit accruing from the
revenue produced, and only upon consumers of
the taxed article would the duty fall. None of
the expedients suggested by Mr. Wise can com-
pare either in efficacy or fairness with protection
through the Custom House. But, haring admitted*
that Protection in these three forms is a good
thing, he has done much to narrow the question
in dispute. The contention in future, as far as h
is concerned, will not be “Freetrade v. Protec
tion,” but “Protection by tariff v. Protection by
bonus.” As ho admits that competition may be
profitably limited, the only question now remain
ing can be as to the best methods of effecting tha
limitation.
+
Tiie Sydney Echo has solved the Mount Rennie
conundrum. The answer is given in these oracu
lar words : “Itis to be feared that for this de-
velopment of crime a section of the press is not
altogether free from blame .... A recent
divorce case introduced to the larrikin imagina-
tion the idea of community in crime. A strug-
gling section of the press has often become pros-
perous on filthy reports, and the result is that
there is a tendency to prefer impurity to cleanli-
ness.” Which last sentence is probably a lament
that the coppers of the public do not gravitate
towards the Echo coffers. One point is worth
consideration—lf indecent reports of divorce
suits induced larrikins to hold a carnival of crime,
Echo leaders must also have some effect on our
social state. For this effect we search the records
of lunacy, and find that 3203 insane persons were
medically treated during 1885, and that there are
now in confinement ;jG7 more insane persons than
there were ten years ago. But to come back to the
publication of indecent matter. Even the Echo
will acknowledge that this may have one or two
effects—it may either lessen crime or make it in-
crease. And the motives of publication may be
either personal gain in coppers, or national gain in
a higher morality. Motives of personal gain in
publication almost invariably lead to national loss
in the advance of evil. The Echo, in a style that
m»J load to mistake as to motives, attacks some
pival evening papers for publishing in the interests
pf their circulation indecent matter. The charge
piay be a perfectly just one, but a review of the-
subject does not lead to unlimited com-
mendation of the Echo. The latter has al-
ways been known as an ultra-respectable
paper: a down-the-harbour orgie it would only
describe generally as “improper,” or “not of a
morally elevating nature ” : to publish any details
or to show reasons for the excision of such an
ulcer would offend its very moral and sen.
sitive readers, and would even diminish the circu-
lation. Therefore it is the policy of the Echo to
overlook and by silence consent to the continuance
of social evils. Who ever heard of the Echo
risking the loss of one subscriber by exposing any
system of crime ? Maunderings over crimes that
have already been punished is the limit of its
moral agency. Admitting, then, that there is an
evening paper in Sydney that publishes literary
garbage and thus increases crime, the fact is still
apparent that another paper, the Echo, refrains
from checking rampant and continued crime by
refusing to visit it with fatal exposure. And the
policy pursued is in each case, accidentally or not,
that which is best calculated to sell the paper. Is
jit worse, then, to make money by urging the
publw pn to evil, than to grow rich by condoning
prime? Either course is selfish, immoral, and
Utterly wrong, and neither journal in adopting
the one has the shadow of justification in censur-
ing the other.
Hear this, oh Ecjio, hear this truth sublime—
He who condones foul .conduct shares the crime. j
—♦ I
“ New South Wales has now a definite duty to
perform to Mr. Darley,” says one Sydney daily,
and the Sydney Daily Telegraph, whilst
savagely attacking the Ministry for not retrench-
ing all round, urges that a substantial addition to
the Chief Justice’s salary should be made. Pre-
sumably this increase is required as a compensa
tion personal to Mr. Darley : it is thought that
the present salary is not sufficient for him, and
must, therefore, be augmented. This is a new
way of dealing with Chief Justices. The D.T,
probably desires to introduce a sort of sliding
acflle of pay, variation to be made according to the
of mental vigour that the Chief Justice
clept c/W g h/ir, an tee to the State. Mr. Dari ey,
f.or instance, Plight ftp priced at £5OOO, Mr. Justice
Faucett at £loqo, JJy,' Jpspicp Jjjnes at £l5OO,
Mr. Salomons who, according tp thp E. Np\vp,
“ lacks dignity,” at £lf),00, and Mr. Justice Win-
PEyER at (spy) £lO a week. But even with
adjustment on tjiese lines Mr. Darley would get
badly “ j,eft.” Sir Jajiks Martin was content to
receive £?50,0 a year, and no one will now venture
IP §ay that Mr. JJarlev will approach the de-
parted Cfript l n ability or exceed him in industry;
fir go, My. ftepLE y Qhpfil/l not g,et so much as
£350(9. He shpujd ftp ssLijjses Wfth (say) £2OOO.
Iff this bonus on the present galaxy ig prgp£ 'pe-
nalise Mr. Darley sacrificed part of his income,
it must at the same time be remembered that he
gained the assurance of a future pension and
obtained honours and dignities which cannot be
submitted to measurement by a money standard,
ff the Chief Justice be so lacking in patriotism as to
t-b/njf nothing ,of the honours his adopted country
ean bestow, py go liiean-spirited as to count as
worthless those 'reward 3 wtfi&b ffff PP t reducible
to hard coin, his appointment to pis ‘ppesppt bisb
position is the worst that could possibly have been
Bwfie. But we think better of hlm than this. Mr,
pAßjupy ig pot the huckster of talent that the daily
Papers i/ifcrcfftpilly assert him to be. A noble
avariqs pf bopour (S, Wp srp sure, not less present
with him than a necessary ,4pa(fp fof rrippey.
The perseverance of New South Wales Civil ser-
vants in searching for arguments against the
recent extension of hours is only equalled by the
utter absurdity of the arguments when found. We
have perused many reams of indignant trash,
alleged answers to previous articles, and had
despaired of finding anything p.ew, when the
screed of-a Post official proved that the d„ptb of stu-
pendous stupidity had not theretofore beenreached.
After trotting out all the bald-headed and dodder-
lug assertions that have been so wearily exhibited
i°r weeks past, he proceeds to display some
' facts ” which certainly have a breezy odour of
freshness and novelty about them. Let us 1 tran-
scribe a few bars of his bray :
Without doubt, both physically and morally, the length-
jyCd hours will affect the civil servants. You must admit
jnat the majority of our athletes are Civil servants. They
uave not sufficient time at their disposal to indulge in any
"port whatever,'and the result js our athletics will soon be-
oome extinct. . . . It is rumoured that there is a grea
tailing off m trade about the city this last week, which
attributed to the alteration in the hours of the service,
well is the ease—as I believe it is—what benefit will 1
twovernment and the colony derive from these lengthens
liours . You know it was the Civil servant’s hobby to panic
the town with his darling after four o’clock, and imreha
her fancy goods, &c , and in this way spend his easily-earn
I money, hmee the hour has been altered from four to five
is unable to perform this pleasant duty. The Government
trying to retrench, by making the service work longer, so
amongst lU i. a few - °f them < have caused a depressio
amongst shopkeepers m the town."
Moses lamenting the ruin of Nineveh (or was
Job ?) was not a sadder spectacle than this youn
man bewailing the ruin of athletics. But w
might urge that if the Civil Service athlete is
such a delicate young man that 7 b hours of quit
driving will do him physical injury, his perform
ances in the way of muscular effort arc not likel
to extend beyond competition for the cigarette
chewing championship and high-collar-wearing
cup. But our deepest sympathies are “on tap
when the decline of “block-bruising” is men
turned. We don’t pity the Civil servant whose
hobby it was to parade the town with his dar
ling, and purchase her fancy goods,” nor do we
even pity the shopkeeper, for we are painfully
aware of the fact that Government mashers have
not hitherto been considered the most reliable
I marks” by tailors and others, but we do pity
the darlings ” whom an unfeeling regulation has
thus brutally crushed. And we pity the habitues
ot the block, for much masculine beauty that for-
merly was visible between I and 5 p.m. is now
conspicuously not there. Nature usually ladles
out good looks to the man to whom she sternly
refuses brains, and thus it is that there is more
loveliness to the square inch among members of
Ihe Service than in any other offices in town.
We think our present correspondent must be
beautiful. He receives £152 per annum, and,
taking his letter as a sample of his mental force,
we are puzzled to know what on earth he receives
that sum for, if not as a tribute to his personal
loveliness.
The N.S.W. Drink Commission,
That line old Silurian fossil, the N.B.W. Dr
Commission, is still pounding along on its drear;
way, though no one knows and hardly any
• cares about its progress. At some long-forgot
glacial period of A ustrplia’s history a commi
of three teetotallers and three publicans was a
pointed, whose business it was to supply c
grams of the Niagaras of colonial beer,
geysers of other rubbish poured annually do
the cornstalk throat. This was considered
reasonable way of striking an average, for
three publicans would naturally regard their
leagues as dry-rot fanatics, while the teetotal!
were certain to set down the publicans as bowe
less wretches, belonging to a class most of wli
grew fat on swipes and delirium tremens. t
fortunately, however, two more teetotallers we
subsequently appointed; the publicans thereup
resigned, and the commissioners have, apparently
so far as useful results are concerned—suspend
everything except their salaries. How not to ru
any chance whatever of doing it, even by acciden
seems to have been their aim. The Govcmmen
analysts were specially examined as to the effec
of alcohol, just as if they had ever endured a ]
covery from three days of rum and orange snak
in a bush shanty ; the medical officers were co
suited as to the craving for drink, where
the testifier wanted was the thirsty digg
who has sat down on the sand ha
way between Kimberley and the other end of
parched and dusty nowhere, and howled on h
deity to open the windows of Heaven and ra
down anything from bottled porter to absinthe
the thirsty land ; and lastly the clergy—includii
even Bishop Barry— were called upon to giv
evidence hs to the best means of arresting drunken
ress, &c. Yet, unless a bishop has himself bee
arrested for drunkenness, he can know nothin
about this point, except at second-hand, and th
colony wants some more practical remedies tha
church and collection-plate ; and from his clerica
position he is no better qualified to give an un
biassed c pinion on drink than is a hyrena to sit i
a committee on frozen meat. An honoured cor
respondent of The Bulletin, who describes him
self as having been found hopelessly drunk on fiv
continents, and as having spent enough on experi
ments connected with, beginning with, and endin
with drink to swamp the whole commission
anxiously draws our attention to these points
and urges that the confirmed drunkards of the
community should be called in evidence, and also
that a drunken lawyer should be allowed to cross
examine when necessary. This would at leas
have the merit of allowing both sides of the case
to be heard, and would add a little interest to the
petrified show which has sunk so completely into
oblivion. As matters now stand, the inquiry is
being conducted by teetotallers who are pledgee
by their creed to bring in a whole-souled curse anc
cftjl it a rpport and therefore nobody will car„
twopenpe for tpepr or thp dopumpnt. Tpey are
relyjng solely op the evidence of men who
have never been drunk, or who dare not admit
it if they have been; and they are waiting
patiently till the public have forgotten their
existence, and then they will flop down a fore-
doomed, abandoned bullock-load of waste paper
on the table of the Assembly, and present 40 acres
of bill for fppir salaries and depart. Nobpdy paras
a straw fpr thpir ‘i lapours,” fop tfrpy have effec-
tually discounted ail public interest long ago.
Unless the Commissioners can strike some new
source of information they will acquire no know-
ledge that every intelligent colonist does not
already possess, and, as the Commission serves
merely as an outlet for expenditure, the best
thing that can be done by the Ministry is to stop
the salaries, discharge the five formalists wpp
Ijave sat so long and batcfied opt s'fi lit tip, and
send ap phgipe, with ip trucks, tp re-
move tfpeir accumulated records at the earliest
possible moment.
Apropos of the Mount Rennie case, there is
! room for a good deal of improvement in the method
pf gpttfugup evidence adopted by the police of
Sydney, in that instance a tot hi promiscuous
and seedy individuals of the larrikin stamp were
paraded before the victim and recognised by hor
with surprising facility. This was, of course, a
powerful compliment to the force. They went
fishing, necessarily rather at random, among a
population of 313,000 people, in search of a dozen
men whose names even the girl did not know, and
ihp )4entified the prisoners as fast as they were
run in. But, just to giyp arrested ppoplp in gpnpral
a shadow of a chance for their Hvest ft yould bp
as well in such cases to mix a few persons known
to be thoroughly above suspicion, with the gang,
and watch the result. The Judges, for instance,
are necessarily of spotless reputation, so they
might havp hpep dressed in shabby attire, and
passed along with the tost. This plan is com-
mended for the consideration of the Chief of
Police. f
CORRESPONDENCE
Weatfs'uh!!! :IL 13 trUe ’ as you S a y. that the
you will o a rpf n ePreSented t 0 tho left of the ‘™P- But if
that it is not H ° p ' h picture again you will see
is left-handed l’ vi b ' B , 13 a free countr y> and our artist
m k- Md poetic justifies him in
darn please?S Po “‘ ,f° r West to any direction he
1 * ,,, 41excin(Iriai ; Impossible for n» o»
s inct ° W t 0 d ° al witb the n) atter. If the lottery was
compel "the 7 ? Attorney ' < ’ lener al you could, we think,
the promoter to gi y e the promised prize, hut not un-
•■■• “ S. v ", "‘ e Virtues ’ bufc many defects,
a “ land hi v•' ,'„ ° U do not seenl to distinguish between
•wSI u Pr r ty4al -'’ nature and inc
deuce they are widely different. The Grub" - Thanks
:H “ "” i “ >” «»
s ■»- ™ «t,of cre r tsz ™
i„ It. »"*, »’>'■ MW
the main w our views seem to be correct in
w eSi im.7 H W : t,l c ° n< ' phaseof the question in
You write-I 5 S ° rry that wfl ca ™ot accept.
" /A’ 3 , rath er a difficult matter
( when a fellow's been out on a spree)
To be perfectly sure he's had enough,
Anotd treed a roa d which is very rough
On his homeward way to bed.” B
Of course it is, and—pass the Broadwood—
When a e man 'JSP 1 t a \ an,; disappointment
Tn ni a . ! t „ hlnks he can write verse)
To be purtly informed fat his poetry's stuff
And only just about good enough y ’
■> r r! f 3! m filllng a waste-paper basket,
and jT' ! [ (Noumea >: You don't send us the papers
and vie can t obtain them here....» Mumbo”: We have re’
ce.ved your gloomy poem. Your past life, it is plain con
ceahi a disappointment in love-or in literature « M
Malcolm : By what portion of the Bible, pray, do you 'as a
Christian, seek to maintain your alleged right to hang a man
who has committed rape?....“8.J.": Absurd, sfr Henry
Parkes has lost his power.... "Yours sincerely"; You S
neither name nor address....” Pistol Good « p pn■■
Good ghastly idea....“ J. Esdale“Rebels'""in Burmah
would he patriots” in Bulgaria “G. Neville”- Your
", S ° me length, for
nstanee. . N.S.F. . Will consider....” Due of the Unein-
P oyed ; In its present form your essay is unacceptable, but
notice of gome of its features may be taken....” Atlas ”■
Why do you write “comic” poetry when the undertakers'
are willing to employ you as a mute ? “The Squire”- Vm,
are a modest and philosophical young democrat with s'trong
Tory instincts. The very indefiniteness of your musings
militates against their value to a 20 shillings-to-the-i! uni
verse ... A Digger ” (Sofala); The babe and suoklin- bum
ness doesn't suit you, friend. The one point we can see in
your letter is that the Australian is degenerating and will
soon be far inferior to the Englishman. Well he hasn’t
begun to degenerate yet. The sturdy miners who plodded
over he dreary wastes of Kimberley under unspeakable
hardships; the stockmen who ride daily further than most
Englishmen would care to travel on horseback in a week •
the pioneers who have gradually penetrated almost every
part of this continent, and who are now overflowing into
New Guinea, have not up to date sunk even to the level of
the stupid, weak, bowed-down rustic who labours for next to
nothing a week on a English farm, or the toiler who works I
m a factory and who has already degenerated about as far -is
hecango. In fact,.the Australian ean degenerate f Qr about
1000 years before he reaches that pqiqt. We have studied
the two nations for a good many years and we know them
both. Jt ta|;es wore than climate to ma*e a race degene-
ratlJ Adonais We don’t quite see the drift of it Yon
give no hints as to the cause of Caroline's sadness as she sat
by the water under the willows. Had it anything to do with
next week s washing ? Or can it possibly have happened that
you had been reading your verses to her ? Ah, ha ! We have it
You had been reading some of your verses to her ! Trust in
us for a solution of poetical conundrums every time
Wideawake”: Yes, one day's sitting in the Mount Rennie
case was extended till 3.30 next morning. You are possibly
correct in believing that any ordinary j H ry would know s
much about the case as 12 bottles of chloroform by *hat
time. .. Kosmos ': A thoughtful essay, but not acceptable
in ylobo. We have for some time been collecting foreign in-
formation with a view of showing the necessity of one of the
reforms you favour....“ Constant Reader”f Yes w/ To
tb ;; lk * hat . the ei «ht-hour system would have been introduced
if the Civil servants had then been working 7§ hours per dav
and we think that with the present hours the Government
does give an ample wage for the Work its servants perform
Too much to many of them, including the Governor gold
and members of Drillk Commissions
A.BN. : Your poem opens with the line: “They sat
beneath the burning sun.” Of course they did-
when did anyone ever sit on top of the au a J
Lunatic ; You say you are a Civil 6m a,H. We congratu-
?jT°W‘iuU 3Uitedtoyfw Cental
t f w t nt fco know what herald
rpally thinks, read what the Echo says. The Echo «av«
“'CT MR" n WeU> the UkKALT> thiuks very little
d.d.m.b. : Contents of your letter noted “J.OB”-
We grieve for (E none, and will try to publish her anguish
Arnuies ': You write: “Having heard that you r
like all other papers, give (sic) the authors o| voeiosVume
praise for their poems, what woufd yo U give me for this
poem. Six months hard labour. J„ justification of the
wmdiedshness or tnat punishment wo quote a slab-to call it
verse would be to insult all verses that have ever been
penned -
“ i'„ r , 0 ! n . here to , Englan , d ,> thence all round that land,
Which once did sparkle with famous rowing handls' -
1 he spullers all round the world did he beat '
Amidst the English summer’s fiery heat.”
Beach has his good qualities, but if his existence is
to flood the epuntry with slush of this kind he
\ suppressed by Act of Parliament.
.... ..f[ay :£p subscribed £2§....“ J.R,"; The picture
given in thp 1. and C. Juukn A L of 6th Nov. as a represen-
tation of the match Australia v, England at Adelaide
th T e AND DRAMAn Tlii ,
* vn A pw ld ) ent -i of .{! ,e Eton :md Harrow Match ”
Soothe Svdne P v MAir°L? enry i, Ken^?' 11 was calmly stoleD
• ■ , * whose honestly enterprising nro-
P rTved rSWe “JF” th Yn eXpenS f- ° f lwvi, ? g H
vouv wit" aV Y v mahce can g!ve 30 points in 50 to
y ? ul , w k A.b. . Your poetry leads us to wonder
whether you have not omitted one of y 4U r initials
Oyster Johnnie ; Six prize freehold allotments found in o
irl' rk na a t! W ol[ongong i That's no sign that it was
hi* 4ny ordinary Woollooinooloo hash-enginee
generally carries at least one suqh allotment on her counten-
ance, .. Secularist : Your remarks noted. We are unoon-
soious of such a bias...." Paskal /. Blazer”: That class of
hteratuie is play,.d 0ut,,.,; Charles Wade ”: “ How do we
kt ' o, v •„ Well, we know it from the fact that, some years
ago, Sir Patrick Jennings wrote and published under his own
name a pamphlet advocating the creation of an Australian
£f?* ta^ oblhty -••• : Tlle “general staff of The
Bulletin are natives of Australia. One of the artists is
an American, the other is an Englishman....” A. G. A.”- As
we dispute about nine-tenths of your preniiscu, and sfi per
cent, of youj-conclusions, wp don’t fchipk e,thcr of printing
ioqr lpt),pr (jf oj a- t iswernjg It “.fjrnest Wilton”: Wi-11
1 ' t-offiipon Sense : You blame the unemployed
for loafing aliout Hyde Park waiting for the next meal,”
Lut what on earth could they do ? Your other remarks show
you to be ignorant of the undoubted fact that there are
immense numbers of men vainly looking for work in everv '
part of tke c010ny...." Saltator": Hav? condensed'
Hero : The papers have made a roi H take, Thay should
h a VP qaid rfiat ‘ the Gjuveynor \vqs jntrqddQed to Mr. Beach,”
a champion sculler being much morp Smpoitant than a mere
Governor— “ A. 8.5.,. “Ishmael,;' “Inquirer,” " J. 5.,” and
[ many others, will receiye attenti m next week.
BRIEF MENTION.
Windeyer.—Windier.
Llessed is the Meeks, for he shall possess
a ward.
I The chief injustice—the objection to
Salomons.
A house of ill-fame.—The N.S.W. Legis-
lative Assembly.
In Rockhampton silk stockings are worn
as gloves, and vice versa.
L\ cry time the Melbourne Presbytery
meets it discusses a «' burning » question-Hell.
A mason fell from a wall sixty feet high*
a( once ” amPt ° n PaPGI CallS thi3 “ Comin & d own
•John L ar ge married Vine White at Cooia*
mvmdra last week. May the vine flourish
‘ I have fourteen pains to the square
° ’ . Wrol l c a Lismore (N-S.W.) Alderman in his
Jilicial apology for absence from a meeting.
“ We’ll fight whilst there’s blood in our
Jodies, ’ says the valorous editor of the Victoria*
™ 1° VICTUATLER , By blood he probably
neans beer. 7
„ Iho man wbo introduced steel pens into
' mnee has just died.” The man who introduced
i °” g w but ,o,t a
Ah Won is the name of a convicted Sydney
lunese gambler. Ah Lost is the name of his
-h C rbimself mer ’ Wh ° " a WWte “ an When
Extract from the War Cry :—“ Happy
immy the saved drunkard, was so filled with
ra . e that he could hardly speak.” Humph 1
ratitude -or gin ? y 1
“ No doubt ma «y have come here to
Said a Melbourne Salvation captain When
!ntesMh Wltl !>, a Pmy<!r at a grand tea-and-tarfe
mtest the other night.
A Melbourne constable arrested a man for
; a ™ g three hats - an d charged him with insult-
=, behaviour. The insult must have been in-
aded for John Davies.
‘‘Joseph Symes has just lectured on the
ble at the bar of science.” We never saw a
)le at a bar, since the late lamented Peter Camp-
-1 left this vale of beers.
The Sydney barbers have now got Beach’s
ours painted on their poles. Our William is
• patron-samt oi the barbers-he goes in for a
an shave and a gaol-like crop.
Chinamen named Ing Hung was re,
ltly found drowned near In verell (N.S W ) Thi*
Wher apseis the old notion that . J taro
3e Hung can never be drowned.
Northern sheet gravely informs its
ders that the fire began at the widow side of
structure. They may not be aware that this
ie Rockhampton Order of Architecture.
1 writer in the Melbourne Herald says
■e is no word in the English language to de-
be a man who makes post-mortem examine
s. What is the matter with corpse-cutter?
*t the examination of pilots held in McU
rne lately, Pilot Seale made a statement to the
3t that “ The monotony of doing nothing
r trying.” How hard it must be on the poor
semen!
here was an animated discussion in one
tie Melbourne suburban Councils the other
Owing to a slight indisposition one of the
ncillors did not appear at the next meeting,
slight indisposition took the form of a black
hat much-ridiculed individual who asked
ge Stephenson what would happen if a cow
n the way of his train, is sniggering away to
ren oyer last week’s accident. In fanm we
his ** -
.tWdliSn L“ip p e , e ld di TtT s e ald S, W
: with wild fowl of all kinds. The discovers
is to have seen several bunyips on its blnkJ
ays they are large, hairy, harmless-looking
ures, not unlike Justices of the Peace. 8
elboume still keeps proudly in the van
1 P ob ? e -y an -° f Antipodean civilisation
ig the last quarter 3195 persons were brought
the Bea ch charged with various offences,
number does not include those who were
tC ii! n^ tlle - 20 suburbs surrounding Melbourne
g that period. Nearly all the genius in the
i City of the South is in gaol—or ought to be.
e inhabitants of what is known as the
Country, in Victoria, have been petitioning
oyernment for more Justices of the Peace
i is a rumour to the effect that is a deep plan
eventing a new outbreak of bushranging-
ig supposed that a man who is made a Jus-
E the Peace will not break the peace in a
. All the dangerous characters are to he
lated as J’s.P. t 0 be
re is a sentence from an article nr»
bsophy and Philosophers” in a latenmnir
Melbourne periodical “In foot
it Hegel's God, is as different
r Anselm’s God as ehilt i a L »
is a cheerful ring of familiarity “botuhto
which, no doubt i* * ouc tm ®
ider and the Deity’ at theto east
oss,damned. appcared is now dead-and,
s proposed to build the new Melbourne
e near the City Baths Sn
Sir


The Keferee
We drink to the health of William Beach
—and may he never keep a pub. ! May his anvil
never he a bar ! Still there rings in our ears the
funeral-bell of a man who, but a few years pre-
viously a fine sculler, physically degenerated
amidst his stock of rum-bottles until he sank into
the tomb. It is a miserable thing to see a great
athlete beoome a whisky-show—no more pitiable
sight is there on earth than that of the mighty
man of muscle, once an example to all men, who
has fallen from his high estate and become a pub-
lican with a seat in the City Council. There are a
good many hundreds of publicans in Sydney, and
just about two or throe of them are in athletic
health—and this because they are strong enough
to steadily resist all invitations to drink, thus
rising superior to the weaku esses of their cus-
tomers. Tiie Bulletin has a sincere regard for
Beach, and hopes to see him shoeing horses and
not stoking men with rum. The latter business
he can safely leave to those “ patriotic ” bosses of
whisky-mills who barnacle themselves on to every
shining light of aquatics. If, as has been pro-
posed, Beach is given a start in a big farriery
establishment in Sydney, he will in all probability
make a little fortune—even if he should prove to
be only half as good a farrier as he Is an oarsman.
* * *
If Beach is really the weight they credit
him with, 14 stone and a half, he will do well to
retire from active service, for to a man of his age
the work necessary for the reduction of 281bs. will
become every day more severe. When Tom
Cribb, of immortal memory, fought and defeated
the American black Molineux, Tom scaled 14st.
31b. He then led rather a merry life for some six
months, and when a second match was arranged
with Molineux Tom weighed something over Hist.
Captain Barclay took Cribb away to his estate in
Scotland, where Tom underwent his preparation,
and, stepping into the ring at 13st. 61b , Tom
polished off the black in workmanlike fashion.
Cribb at the time was 30 years of age—an age, by
the way, at which a man was supposed to be get-
ting past championship form in the good old days
of the P.R. —but he afterwards said he would
rather fight a couple of battles than go through
that preparation again. Captain Barclay, always
in athletic training, and looked upon as second to
none in England with the mittens, amateur or
professional, used to box Tom up a constitution
hill on ms ground, and Cribb told the yarn after-
wards that this was. the hardest part of his train-
ing at the commencement, for his cries of “ bellows
to mend” would have no offeet on the Captain,
who would continue to belt him unmercifully un-
til the top of the hill was reached.
* * *
All Sydney and its wife and its mother-in-
law turned out last week to welcome William
Beach on his arrival from England, and there
was excitement enough for a revolution. The
whole city seemed to bo flying the champion’s
colours, and a few enthusiastic individuals even
dressed themselves from head to foot in nigger
and jaundice tints. The harbour was covered
with boats, and though there was perhaps room
enough on the Quay to swing a cat, the process
would have been fatal to tho feline, for goodness
only know how many people were crowded there
—some say 10®.000, but we don’t believe it. Six
drags awaited the champion’s party, and when
Beach landed amid a whole city full of uproar,
the police had to take him in custody and convey
him to his vehicle, or he would certainly have
been squashed. Even as it- was, he was cor-
dially spanked on the back till he had no
wind left. The procession then made for
the Colonial Secretary’s Office, where the
Awful (short for the Awful Majesty of the Queen’s
representative) congratulated the successful
sculler, who grunted once or twice in response,
and thence the show struggled along to the Town
Hall. Here Jubilee Young had what will proba-
bly be his last slice of luck ; in his capacity as
municipal boss he made the first speech, and after
him came tho ex-hero, Plain Bill, and Sir Patrick
Jennings. Beach then upheaved himself and
responded, and the official aspect of the outburst
was at an end.
* * *
Jackson’s big ’un, Kiley, did not show up
to advantage in his spar with Nolan at Foley's
Athletic Hall on Saturday night. Kiley under-
took to knock Nolan out in six rounds, but, big as
he is, Kiley does not appear able to hit hard enough
to knock a hole in the .proverbial pound of butter,
and Nolan was all there when time was called.
Gorman and Smith, the lad who recently fought
M‘Carthy, had four ding-dorig rounds, there being
nothing to choose between the pair at the finish.
Fitzsimmons and Molloy had a light quick, set-to,
and a few other bouts made a fair night’s sport.
* * *
At Dooley and Seymour’s a start was made
in the competition for J. J. Alcock’s ten-guinea
prize. Burgess bested Donoghue in the first
round, when J. Fuller and Meadows had the three
best rounds of the show, the decision being in
favour of Fuller. Hansen persauded Murray to
cry ago after the first round, and B. Fuller beat
Gooley from start to finish. The deciding heats
will be boxed next Saturday night.
* * *
Mr. W. L. Murdoch has joined the East
Melbourne Club and may play with them against
the Englishmen. When asked if he would play
with Victoria in the Intercolonial match “ Billy ”
replied : “ No. I have learnt and played all my
cricket in and on behalf of N.S. Wales and I don’t
mind telling you that whenever she has an eleven
in th; field I wish them to win, no matter by whom
they are opposed.”
* * *
Young Fielder rode three successive win-
ners at Canterbury on Saturday—Peeress in the
Galloway Race, Sundial in the Selling, and Julia
in the Pony Race.
* * *
The Prince Alfred Y. 0. are queer people.
They first of all allow the Carina, a boat which
has donned racing colour’s previously, to start and
win a race for “ cruisers,” and they then pass a
resolution “ that for the future only boats com-
plying with the specific conditions of the race be
allowed to enter.” Great Scott ! This is tanta- j
mount to the Australian Jockey Club allowing a
four-year-old to start and come in first for the j
Derby, paying over the stakes, and then passing a
resolution that for the future only three-year-olds
should be allowed to enter.
* * ■»
The noblest row-man of them all—Billy
Beach.
* * *
The Melbourne Leader waxes wroth
over the proposed sailing of Sir W. J. Clarke’s
yacht, the Janet, against the Magic and Waitangi
in the one race, and there is a deal of truth in the
arguments brought forward. No truer yachtsmen
than the owners of the Magic and WaitaDgi can
the yachting world boast, but should either boat
get the Janet under her lee it is not human nature
that the skipper to windward will allow her to get
away so long as he can keep her there, and in the
meantime the third boat may be booming along
miles away. The Janet, of course, might have the
luck to be the yacht to get clear off, and leave
the Sydneyites to blanketing operations, but, in
any case, if it is to be for the “championship,”
would it not bo better for the Magic and Waitangi
to sail beforehand and the winner meet the
Janet ? Should the pair do so, there cannot be
much doubt, bar fluky winds and accidents, that
tho Magic will be the yacht pitted against the
Victorian crack.
* * *
Now that the Beach affair is over, is it not
time the Jaynil and Company commenced to work
up a reception for the Australian Eleven ?
N.B. —This is sarkasm.
* * *
“ Professor ” Miller many months since
gave forth that he had retired from active life in
the arena, but with the advent of the English and
American wrestlers the old warhorse has sniffed
ESTABLISHED USAGE.
EDITOR OF DAILY (to reporter) : MR. NIBBS, YOU SAY HERE THAT BROWN, THE
MURDERER, WAS ‘HANGED.’—THIS IS YOUR COPY, I BELIEVE? ’
NIBBS (with wholesome dread of the libel laws): “AND SO TIE WAS. I WAS AN EYE
WI I’NESS.”
ED. : “AN EYE WITNESS ! AND YET YOU MERELY SAY HE WAS HANGED, NOT
‘LAUNCHED INTO ETERNITY! MR. NIBBS, YOU HAD BETTER GET A
GOVERNMENT BILLET, YOU WILL NEVER MAKE A NEWSPAPER MAN,
YOUR STYLE IS TOO BALD !”
the battle from afar, and ho is now matched
against Tom Cannon in the Greeco-Roman style
for £lOO, the contest to come off in three weeks’
time. Grseco-Roman wrestling is about the nearest
approach to the gentle sport the Yankees term a
“ canine controversy” that we know of, and we
do not think it will ever become popular in Aus-
tralia. A meeting bet ween the rival “ pro-
fessors,” Miller and Jackson, with the mittens,
would draw more “ gate” than the whole series
of wrestling matches.
* * *
The Temora Jockey Club are out with
their programme for a two days’ meet on the 23rd
and 24th February. The principal events are the
Jockey Club Cup of 60 sovs., and the Town Plate
of 40 sovs.
* * *
Would it not be a good rule for the Bicycle
Union to insist upon our quasi-professionals riding
races upon machines other than those represented
by them—or their employers ?
* * *
The thoroughbred dies hard. Frank
Skurry Hewitt, rising 43, offers to run anyone in
the world, 40 years of age, five distances from 100
yards to a quarter, for £5OO aside. We fancy, by
the way, Frank Skurry was the first to have a
flutter with Malone in Sydney. Amongst a sport-
ing crowd, one evening, a then unknown young
gentlemen, from whose tongue the brogue ran as
water from a duck’s back, ventured the opinion
that he thought he could run 75 yards purty fasht.
Frank Hewitt was of a different opinion, and it
was not until Malone had beaten him for a small
stake that Hewitt was satisfied.
* * *
Mr. Johnny Deeble is described in the
London Pink’un as “ the gentleman that findeth
the oof when Beach embarketh in his wherry.”
* * *
Though Beach, as an orator, much im-
proved during his absence, he is still rather ill at
ease when orating. When replying to the toast
of his health, at the Oxford Hotel on Saturday
night, he nervously toyed with a sausage-roll al
the time.
* * *
The losses of a certain very well-known
Sydney bookmaker on the Melbourne Cup Meeting
were £14,685—£15,000 loss £l5 !
* -X- *
Business is very lively in the Melbourne
muscle market. Tom Cannon is to wrestle Miller
for the “ World's Championship,” Grroco Roman,
one-down-on - his-hands-and-knees-and-the-other-
one-sitting-on-his-back fashion. Jack Connor,
who vanquished the v r eteran Christol, is waiting
to have a go at the winner. Donald Dinnie is
about to shake the dew drops from his mane, and
wrestle more “ draws,” in every imaginable style.
And the mighty Sali has just arrived from Italy,
prepared to throw Miller with one arm, while he
licks Dinnie at weight-lifting with the other. Wo
shall have no end of matches shortly. Every
match will be followed by a grand complimentary
benefit to the loser at which everybody will assist.
It is to be hoped that the boss gladiator won’t
finish up by wrestling the rum-bottle, like poor
Whistler.
* # *
The Sydney Mail publishes as a Christ-
mas supplement a portrait of Baby Beach in a
dirty frock seated on a log as he appeared years
before he owned any sculls except the one on
which his frowsy hair was rooted. There are also
nine portraits of eminent Australian rowers, but
somehow they look painfully like those of the nine
who were convicted of the Mount Rennie out-
rage.
* * *
He was a philosophical and venerable old
gentleman with a decided thirst for information,
and as he strolled towards the crowd on the Cir-
cular Quay he innocently inquired, “ What are
you waiting for?” “ For Beach.” “Who’s
Beach?” When they had finished with him
his h/ ad was stowed away in his left armpit, and
his right ear was wedged down into the toe of his
left boot, The doctors think that what remains
] of him may live for some time unless erysipelas
j supervenes.
* * *
There was a ginger-headed youth in
Sydney who was studying for the Ministry, and
who looked as if a little horse-whipping would do
him good. He boarded with his mother, and held
himself up by his mean, lank, red hair for the
admiration of a pretty girl who had loDg been
| devoted to him and who thought him a hero.
: He was too poor to get married, he said, and the
girl is poor also, but she managed to save £1 out
of her scanty earnings and invested it in a sweep,
hoping against hope that something might turn
up to begin house-keeping on. Something did
: turn up, and in a pe-fect flutter of delight she put
j £4OO into the hands of the inci, 1- nt bible-whacker
and told him that all difficulties were now
smoothed away. And so they were next morning,
for the chunk of pious cold veal had departed,
and on top of the brush with which he was accus-
tomed to grind up his sacred scalp was a note
saying that as money won by gambling never
brought a blessing, he had gone off to expend it in
charity. He added that the church was his bride,
and we can only hope that when he marries her
the bride w ill habitually plant her cold ecclesias-
tical feet in the small of his back at midnight and
make him sit up with a snort. Almost thou per-
suadest me to join the Y.M.C.A.
* * *
The Sydney Echo says : “ Our country
cousins would be surprised to learn that out of the
crowds of horses that run at suburban meetings
near Sydney very few are started to win.” Ho,
ho ! let the Echo man take a horse up the country
and try to teach “our country cousins” a little
wrinkle in the way of in-and-out running. Man !
he’d find half of them knew enough to skin him.
Country cousins, indeed!
_ *
A sportive soul up North thinks that
Trickett may shortly come to tho front again and
wipe out Beach. Trickett is in excellent condi-
tion and can race seven mud barges and the float]
ing carcase of a dead horse all at once.
The A.J.O. Summer Meeting.
For the A. J.C. Summer Cup, to be run on Boxing
Day, the Caulfield Cup hero, Ben Bolt, is at the head
of the poll on paper, but wo fear he will occupy a
more humble position when the final numbers appear
on the black board. The trainer of the horse, Mr.
Kelly, was in Sydney a few days ago, which
favours the probability of the horse starting. On
her Melbourne running, Industry possesses not
the remotest show, but it is no secret that she was
all to pieces when down South. Mr. White holds
three nominations up to date—at the head whereof
is Volcano, who somewhat coincidently occu-
pies third position now in the handicap. At
first sight Bst. olbs. appears an immensity of
weight for a three year old running amongst older
horses, with lighter imposts. But Volcano’s
late two-year-old running and subsequent per-
formances as a three-year-old, both at ltandwick
and Flemington, fully entitle him to every ounce
of his burden. Let it bo assumed, too, just for
argument’s sake, that the Summer Cup is a Derby
race in which, of course, all the male competitors
would carry Bst, 101 b., and the marcs Bst. 51b.
apiece ; how many are there out of the lot that
would be able to pace half a mile with Volcano ?
The gi eat difference in the weights may bring him
back to some of them, and if the betting market be
any guide there is a prospect of Volcano being a
deserter on tho day, and the success, or otherwise,
of the blue and white being left to the care of Hex-
ham and Tamarisk. This item comes under thehead
of probabilities, which are at present difficult to
solve—very likely, at this date, the stable have
not tho price of a sandwich on any of their in-
tended representatives, if, indeed, they have
docided which is the Simon Pure of the trio. But
judging fjom appearances, and the maniacal
rush made after Mr. White’s nominations, two
courses only are open to Mr. W. : he either has to
accept 2 to 1 about his nags when he should at least
obtain 10 to 1, or start them unbacked for the
benefit of what is known as “ the long-suffering
public.” At present we incline strongly to the
chances of Volcano, Tom Brown, Pilot, Highland
Mary, Leichhardt, and Upper Cut, with an un-
limited amount of confidence in the first-named,
if, on the day, he should carry his master's money.
As a second string, Pilot is, perhaps, the most
reliable.
* * *
The excellent acceptances made for Tattersall’s
Club Cup and C-arington Stakes, together with
the numerous entries received for the minor
events to be decided at the two days’ race meeting
which commences at Randwick on New Year’s
Day under the auspices of Tatteroall’a Club, gives
promise of being the very best on record since
Secretary Perry has been in command of this
flourishing institution. With over 35 horses still
left in Tattersall's Club Cup, and just about 40 in
the Caiington Stakes, backers have a merry task
set them of spotting tie winning double, although
the business will be somewhat minimised by the
running for the S mmer Cup, which takes place a
week in advance of Tattersall’s meeting. In the
first-named event Arsenal’s name appears whore
it did the last time he ran in public—at the head
of the rest engaged in the contest —but whether
he is equal to repeating the performance with an
additional 221 b. on his back has yet to be proven.
The Melbourne Sportsman makes the cunning
assertion that Mr. Scarr evidently thought
Arsenal won tho Melbourne Cup “ with a lot up
his sleeve,” simply because he has risen him a
stone and eight pounds for the Randwick event.
If Vigilant’s brilliant idea be correct, it is beyond
doubt that tho Hon. James White must have had
both his sleeves stuffed, as little Hexham, who
was what Harrio Smith, of Victoria, would call
donkey-licked, with 6st. 51b., is risen to 7st. 41b.
for Tattersall's Cup. The Jewol is none too well
treated with BsL 101 b . and Dunlop has too strong
a mortgage on any Victorian event he may
“ spiel ” for to risk a visit to Sydney at present.
Should he, however, be amongst the starters and
goers for this race, two-thirds of these at present
left in (whose owners and trainers are beguiling
themselves with a belief that they have a lien on
the 500 so vs. and Gold Cup) might just as well
remain in their loose-boxes for all the possible
chance of success they each and all possess.
Ben Bolt has only a squeak with Bst. 81b., and
will be more at home in the Summer Cup should
he visit the scene of his former triumphs. Ring-
master’s name appears amongvt the list of con-
tented ones, but the writer’s dollars will not be
lost on him. Silver King is remarkably well
treated with 7st 618T7 and shall carry our coin
when the stable are on themselves. Hexham and
Pilot are both on the same mar k, and of tho pair
we prefer the latter. Then comes the untried one,
The Felon, a full brother to First Demon. We,
however, prefer performers, irrespective of
rumours that 3min. 31sec. will have to be broken
’to beat him. Lower down the list appear the
names of hor&o3 who have not a million to one
show of winning, albeit they all help to keep up a
field. We have a never-dyirg fondness for the
gentler sex, which extends even to horse-flesh. The
present is no exception to the rule, and despite all
warnings we shall roly on Tamarisk, Highland
Mary, and Sorella to champion us, notifying
even so early our preference for the first-named ;
and fora “saver,” we choose a 3 a Pilot nothing
loss than a Silver King or Myall King.
* * *
The Carington Stakes, with its 41 acceptors, will
be a nice little race for punters who have “ gone
wrong ” on the Summer Cup and Tattersall’s Cup,
to “ get right.” Benefited as they will be by wit-
nessing the rheumatic competitors in the two
above-named events, it may be comparatively easy
to make a recovery on this particular contest, for
we are loyal enough to prophesy that not any
of our racing men would insult Baron Carington
by running a horse “ watered ” in an event named
after him. Were we compelled to select three or
four at the present time we should ask for an
Upper Cut of Blue Blood from Highland Mary,
with the toast of Here’s Luck to Volcano and
Gozo as a fall back.
From the year 1849 to 1880, the A.S N
00. lost 16 ships by wreck.
The N.S.W. railway frauds cases arc
likely to ccme on for hearing on the Last Day.
The swearing-in of Chief Justice Darloy
was a great success. His Honor “looked inagni-
ficient” —so said all onlookers —and appeared in »
wig so gorgeous that everybody wonddred how it
could have been made to order in the time. I’ l
rcpljing to the congratulations of Mr. Want, on
behalf of the bar, Mr. Darley remarked that —
“ He need not say that Mr. Salomons, when to their great
regret he resigned the position to which it was his honouraw
ambition to attain, and for which he was so well fitted, wa
actuated by no other feeling but that which he conceived re
be his duty to the public.”
Mr. Justice Windeyer’s nose hero turned UP
visibly. It is pretty generally known that when
Mr. Darley waited upon Judge Windeyer to ex-
postulate with the latter in regard to his attitude
towards Mr. Salomons, some rather strong Words
passed between them, and as a result their social
relations are now considerably iced.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
ITitkatrk Boyau.— ' Mary Stuart." „ „
Acadbmy of Music.— Dr. Lynn ■ " '' 1
Alhambra Music Hall.—Minstrels
COUNTRY Tour : Stroud.—Lynch Family Bellringers . ! ”
Speed sparkling pen and in rhythmic
cadences, melodious as Is thy wont, tell such
things as shall glad the hearts of actors, thrill tho
palpitating bosom of lovely womanhood, and earn
for us acres of bouquets, oceans of smiles, and bot-
tles of ru—we mean garlands of everlasting fame.
Tell first—while in the dawn of thy diurnal
career, while space is like unto an abyss yawning
for copy, and before tho p. d. has commenced to
make the door creak as he howleth for the screed
that awaiteth him not—of the shows that are bright
and fragrant with the odour of genius, and then
afterwards when space has become crowded and
thy career is nearly run pour out the language of
wrath against autre shows !
* * *
We would like to write nice things always
if the theatres would permit us to do so ; it is so
much pleasanter to write Herald copy than
to write the stern sad truth ; nicer to speak of a
performance “ as a clearly-cut embodiment of the
part,” “ a histrionic triumph of the highest
order,” than to depart from the example of
Ananias, letter-writing judges, and land-agents, in
srder to exhibit truth without the conventional
sustle and paint. It is pleasanter in tho result,
too, for while daily paper critics walk into the
heatie botween a double row of obeisant atten-
lants, we are waited for with a club, and have
tlready learnt 22 dangerous and unconventional
nethods of going down the gorgeously- carpeted
fairs.
* * *
Of “Jim the Penman,” at Sydney Opera
louce, it would be untruthful to say anything much
hat was not pleasant. It is built on fine lines, and
ossesses immense engine-power of dramatic
orce. Different from tho flood of alleged come-
ies which have lately inundated Australia, and
rhich were so called because they were like
othing else in this world or tho next—unless, per-
aps, in a lower one—and not much like comedies
t that—Sir Charles Young's masterpiece is full of
umour, mainly of a satirical kind, which diverts,
ad dramatic action which entrances, the mind,
nd there is strong originality in almost every-
one and situation, not less than with the
laracters themselves. Jim the Penman is a very
'fined young man with a decided talent for copy-
g signatures. He shows to perfection what a
ally first-class forger is capable of doing when in.
11 work. Tho manipulation of orders for £140,000
not beyond his abilities, and the oopying of a
esoription not beneath them. The weak link in
0 drama is his openly forgiDg his wife’s name to
Jhequo while in a room full of his guests. Baron
irtfeld, his accomplice, in an artistic contrast
3 piece abounds with such contrasts—to Jim ;
scrupulous, designing, cynical, and cold-blooded,
seeins to have been mado for tho sole purpose
devastating a credulous and opulent universe,
iile Captain Redwood appears to have been
ilt for the express purpose of ultimately making
! Baron sit up in a rigid and painful manner,
iwood la not like the hoary presentment of a
ge deteotivo who wears scarlet whiskers, speaks
h a County Cork brogue, and hides in hollow
s i his business is perfect save when the author
h a temporary aberration of skill, makes him,
ile in the house of tho culprits be is tracking,
;her out all his suspicions and intentions, in a
>e oompared with which the resonant tones of
wid Buchanan eulogising a horse-thief to a
dgoe jury, are but as the love-whisper in the
t garden of a house wherein resides a stern
ent who takes nineteen in pegged bluchers,
quartette of female women are nicely ohosen,
comprise tho four most conspicuous types of
sty’s adornments. And their dresses, we are
■ibly informed, are “ o-o-o-h lovely.”
* * *
j is not possible to give unadulterated
so St. Maur for his version of “ Jim the
non.” His face responded admirably to every
ind of tho text, but his hands were in con-
d rebellion. Their method of expressing deep
ion was to waggle as though he were shaking
orge of duck-shot out of a small boy, and
action was in ludicrous contrast to the agita-
of his eyes and facial muscles. This defect
■> bis performance went more ounoes to
ound than anything we have ever seen him
ad that, we would modestly point out, Is as
las most men can ever expect in a lifetime
in so censorious a world as this. Mr.
>y parted with his own personality com-
y in order to assume that of Captain
ood—a character whioh he may fairly
P on the pedestal with that of the
m “ Betsy." Mr. Frank Cates would have
setter as Percival, if he had realised the
iat it was not as a piece of statuary alone
that he was expected to appear. Misfortunes in
America seem to have frozen Percival into a sort
of Bartholdi statue. Mr. H. H. Vincent need not
try to improve Baron Hartfeld : it is with hart-
,fni„ SinCCr i, tj ' tbftt WG mako this unqualified and
ihenomcnaljy complimentary assertion. Lord
Drehncourt, who has to cut out the running at the
Start b y proposuig to Agnes BaJston within live
minutes of the ascent of the ra- curtain, we mean,
j® "S'"?* 0 ? b / tho fact that Miss Brooks
isthesort ofg'rlthdtany fellow would propose
to on loss than five minutes’notice if ho thought
there was the ghost of a show of evoking anything
flehU« lndlgnat,on and contumely. D’Arcy Starf
flel 1 rs a sort of light skirmisher in the company,
m* 8 al thedrama tic nutriment that his
part contains.
* * *
Thomas appropriates about
per oent. of the total emotion dispensed bv the
dramatist, and is only slightly overpowered there-
0/. In the matTimomal-row scenes her attitude
is povyerfu 1 , every art of reproach and form of in-
dignation being wielded, except the flat-iron and
for°L°ot^ IC r’ i a ' ld v lheeo tbo Property man had
Mm a °J eaVS mn,ly ’ Buncombe anil
to Hva*w P 3 wcra run into the piece apparently
fulfil tleSrmlSon tone - chapB tone-and they
*# * #
Either Beach or the “ Marble Heart ” or
both comhlned sc° red a success at Sydney Gaiety
last Saturday, but we are inclined to think it was
S„ ( J 10 tragedy was spread over a period of
about 2000 years and lasted from 8 o’clock till
ODorfiVo but dllFin £ all that extensive
wIS h! y ra f odoao Btron g outburstof applause,
while the great sculler, as soon as ho reared him-
solf on end on the stage, evoked a series of wild
enthusiastic roars that were calculated to tear the
tho S ‘‘ Maihl°'n an B,rCet ’ The flrst act of
SSirnfaSS? » Heart , 18 Bnpposod to bo a dream
perpetrated by a sculptor ; it Is a combination of
Athenian art and meanness, Greek row and
Hellenic fervour, poetry, philosophy, splendour
S fh° g ' Th ° mn^nil!cent A Icibiadcs ap-
f mil PG ? nc ’ and ls as
a mean crawling, servile pup, a fawn-
ing, thin-logged, drinking, snivelling wretch whose
disreputable little petticoat is whirled in a mcan-
ingless way through the landscape of the vision
while Diogenes is pourtrayod as a small philoso-
pher who hasn t enough body to cover his intellect.
I he curtain tails, and the toot of the blow-pipe in
the orchestra covers the interval of 23 centuries
nnrt AhA IV f dCS conse< l aea ces of the sculptor’s
pork chop from, tho real story. Act 2 shows a
picnic at Fontainebleau, where a dozen butterflies
are humming round a fashionable siren. One of
S' rty - a Ump looeciy-built swell with an in-
flamed and blotchy grin, makes an original re-
mark ; it is “Ah! yea-ah-ha-yaw-yaw-
yaw yah oh -ah—yes thank yaw—yaw--yah.”
A journalist of groat waist diameter is tho most
f™“* «*>“■« I’M)', and he ie promUy
joined by a young sculptor with a strident, boom-
ing laugh ; this artist lives with his mother.
* * *
Ah might be expected, the sculptor falls in
love with the siren, and even while he is pounding
bricks in Ins studio her image haunts him. It is
in vain that his mother tries to persuade him to
faii in love with an orphan who has just come
nom nnikmg the horse—we should say the cow •
ho forms good resolutions in plenty, but
thej' all vanish at a letter from his charmer and
he departs with his hat held out straigh! before
i him his left foot going with a mighty thud in
front, bis right leg kicking out in a beetle-crushing
frenzy behind, and booming forth in a sledge-
hammer Hoar as he travels. “Oh ! Maroo Marco
my heart is dead to all but Marco now.” ’The re-’
suit of this devotion seems to surprise the march-
ing driveller, but it surprises nobody else Ho is
sold like a superannuated fowl by the lady of his
choice, and sinks down a mere limp crushed
trodden-on remnant of a maudlin ass’inadress
suit, -with hardly pluck and energy enough left to
drag about the load of his own boots. He hangs
round piteously, now sitting with his legs doubled
up and his head on the table, now dropping on a
sofa with his feet expanded and his wretched
grovelling skull hanging anyhow, while tho lady
heaps scorn upon him in the hope that he may at
last find enough leg bone to carry him back to his
mother and leave her in peace. And ultimately
even this miserable parody on a man rouses a
little; ho laughs—a mad laugh, and saying
with an abject groan that he doesn't oare he
starts for home. Ho finds on his arrival there
that his mother is dead, and then he does the onlv
sensible act of his life—he rolls over with his old
familiar yelp and dies in a dishevelled heap.
* * *
Raphael Duchatelet is described in the
bill of lading as “ a young sculptor,” and Mr
Sheridan somohow did not seem to answer this
description. In the prologue the same gentleman
took tho part of!Phidias, and looked the character
well, but as Baphael he got himself up with a
worn, heavy, haggard aspoct that put the sculptor
at a discount from tho very first. Moreover, the
dreary, monotonous deliverance which suited’ the
part of Louis XL so admirably, was woefully out
of place, and thanks chiefly to it the ardent young
lover became a solid block of drivel and stupidity.
Miss Davenport mado only a moderate success as
Maroo. Her aeting as tho heartless coquette was
at times excellent, but she engaged in a gallant
struggle with hor own features at those moments
when a play of ex-pression was wanted, and she
lost tho skirmish every time. If she had contented
herself with acting and abolished expression
altogether we are inclined to think the re-
sult would have been admirable. The othor
members of tho company pounded aloDg in a busi
ness-iike fashion though rather heavily, and the
three living statues—Aspasia, Lais, and Phrvne—
w r ere really excellent.
## # #
The “ Old Corporal ” was the hill at
Sydney Theatre Royal on Saturday and Monday
nights. Ihe house was as good as ever, but not
so full of people as we have seen it sometimes.
In the name part Signor Majeroni was an interest-
ing and picturesque study. His change from
youth to old ago was as complete as the conver-
sion of “ thorough’!and consistent Freetraders”
to “ advocates of a judicious system of Protec-
tion ” will be before next election in N.S.W., but
not so quickly made. It is a slow member who can’t
change his principles right through in lmin 35sec.
Ihe Old Corporal did not manage to import his
skill into the other characters, Miss Blanche
Lewis being the most conspicuous sinner. She
does not panoutwoll on the intense emotion racket,
and should not try ( o measure her genius by the'
yard-stick of thrill. We may be a little indefinite
here, but that is the fault of language. Our
mother-tongue resigns when called upon to criti-
cise Miss Lewis’ acting or to describe her peculiar
beauty. Mary Queen of Scots, that pious young
lady whose. beauty is not much more adored by
modern society than are the peculiar intricacies |
Sia h sTa/e O UIl BU 4t hiB i° rJr V wiH have her turn °
‘‘ Onlv IW ” n lrd !! y ’ bein » then replaced b
tw ™ i \ ? Comedy whoee ca3 t will includ
bat. melancholy fisherman, Mr. J R Greville
specially imported for the occasion. ' °
Dr. Lynn’s show is still booming at Sydney
h ®n ® W , P !° g amni ° includes among
tVio fK* i head, r^ollcy-IIlakiI)e ,
for coStaS^ ne r S0U11(l8 like an Rentier
and fn ?l bymachinery, the vanishing lady
“ko weH o e'veS C u,lr'“ r “ d “ s “™
“The. ‘-Black Flag,” a drama o£ un-
waveimg interest— that is to say, one act is about
as interesting as all the rest, and ah are as S
ingas each—runs for five consecutive nights at the
by that drn indar f P eat i?, t 0 bo foll °wed on Friday
f b h ytba draaia f ° f ‘oars “Fast Lynne.” Our visit to
c?rcum S tanco B IUS w° k Was preven tcd by avoidable
dav nkfm if' Wo * were S° in S down on Satur-
£ ko a saaas ass?
## # #
W e arc saddened to observe that Sydney
Alhambra is not keeping roilnement separated
which' formiVi* Wll h that nice discrimination
wmch formerly was the undeviating rule Or
mabitLnJ ’ n h f eaB ,he distinction used to bo
and 1, will 0 that ° nly refl nement showed up
and vulgarity was removed to (say) Potts Point
obtains ma n b °’ tbat wbi, ° the separation still
obtains, refinement is taking a rest in the
cool avenues of Durand’s Alloy, and only the other
thing permitted to pervade the biz. Yet, In spite
wl.nt n hlngB ftnd wc confesj we don’t know
what they are, or where, or even why— t lie au di-
S N e in 8 a U T,m hi n h<lSth ° N,S - W ’ deficit ’ and
Alms Nina Tulloch, on our last trip to Frank
Smiths paradise, scored her double encore as
f“ y n aS . ev f 5 and Warner and Fanning were
kept on the stage until they seemed to have taken
"o,r " ro "’ is “
## # #
We have seen as many shows as most peo
P °’ i r T d ' ,g '; sho '. VR to barmaid-exhibitions, but,
tnnth Jh 689 t 0 vI.M ,lg bufc a bruited experience in
tooth-shows. When premature decay overtakes
s b l Unba P py,no f I . ar w ® hav ® usually found persons
room 2 J? the obscurity of a dentist’s back-
loom, and there, by the aid of forceps, alOft.
leier, a lost, man, and as much cuss-language as
boon r°" d r a"f! lnbt - r ’ the genial masticator has
thv tlh !! /T?, ltS JaWy holn c and placed on
the table. But at tlie exhibition now going on at
Belmorc I ark, Sydney, all this is changed. There
in a tent capable of holding some 500 persons’
Professor W. 11. Hartley lets us see what a really
jolly thing it is to havoa tooth extracted. Aceoim
pamed by a friend, wo purchased a reserve-seat
for one shilling and were handed a mixture 1 hat
is to ma*ke our teeth tiio envy of the “block.” The
show began with music and some really good
tTafTed im 6 9tagebei,lg lbat highly-toned vehicle
that led the Beach procession the other day. After
as much music as a man wants who has the
jaw-aclie, the Professor took Ids stand on the
plank, and having fixed an electric-light on his
f ° reb l ad ’ declared ho was ready to remove
Si! o teetb P , of e .l e P' make > shape, and state of
i- rhen lbdawned upon us how it is that a
I dentist lives in luxury and dies rich. The poonle
to a man, woman, or child declared they wanted
something removed, and forming in line, the
tooth-drawing procession began. Up they went
all ages sexes, and sizes. Each patient was
m« a ri l i about ,:° stvonds. The Professor east
his hght down the cavity, gave a nod, smiled
touched something, and the tooth was ouL Any
attempt at an encore was-sternly repressed by the
patient, but there was no end to his satisfaction.
Wo learned for the first time what a variety there
l9 l nbuman mouths, how they are square, round
slhptio, or circular; some being as small as a
.eather-jacket s, and others as large as a Supreme
■n°l! rt J fn ge f * Every onj bad an explanation as
,o how the doctor did it, but most agreed it was
ry electricity. Wc asked the Professor to tell
md he promised he -would do so—when he died’
Then we left, and joining in the Haymarket revels
vere soon tearing wildly round on the untamed
vooden steeds t hat hang from the merry-go-round
' ith bars through their bowels.
*# # #
Mr. Rickards, after a long run at Sydney
Academy has moved his show to the Supreme
oar . U Business there has not been very good
-nd he has lost £25 and costs for the week. 'J he
-ew piece is based on a libel action, Nellie Wilson
who appears as Mrs. Phillips complaining that
Benjamin Leete used language regarding her that
no man should use even to a hog. Then the rest
of the company, which is a very strong one, take
to swearing, some asserting that the defendant is
an angel, ana others that he is a double-distilled
demon while the lawyer basely insinuates that lie
was collared some years ago by the boots at an hotel
while trying to slope without paying his bill, and
that he was ones arrested by a bailiff. Mr
Rickards, who appears as Benjamin Leete, a show-
man whose character seems to bo variously inter-
preted, next swear* that he never did anyihing as
how he shouldn t ought to have done, that he
didn t slope from the hotel, that he wasn’t collared
by the bailiff, that he bad paid his debts, tbat two
ladies of his company did not get drunk at Hobart,
and that the other side arc all telling lies Then
the jury find a verdict of £25 and costs. This
piece has now been withdrawn and won’t be re-
produced if Mr. Rickards can help it.
## # #
The Argus says that “ladies of all condi-
l;° aS ° f bfe ” thronged Melbourne Temperance
Hall on the occasion of the Escaped Nun’s first
local lecture. It also tells us that “none of the
audience left the building during the course of the
lecture, thus showing that nothing was said offen-
sive to decency, although it may have proved un-
palatable to many of the constables present on
duty, there is a distinct non sequitur here, if
“ llletin knows anything of human nature.
Had the Argus seen people going out in the
midst of the discourse it might have sworn that
the reason for their departure was that Adith’s
yarn W'asn’t spicy enough.
** * #
Mr. Locke Richardson, who carries the
works of Shakespeare about with him in his head
is doing grand business round Melbourne. He
favours town halls, and such like orthodox places
of resort. Pillars of sassiety who would rather
die than enter the polluted precincts of a “ theay-
ter.” prefer the American reciter to church socials
and find a four-shilling seat better value for their
money than a collection. Every now and then
Lady Loch expresses a “ desire ” for some special
play, and on these occasions a well shirt-fronted
and bare-shouldered mob pack the Town Hall
like sardines in a box. But Mr. Richardson is
something more than a fashionable entertainer.
I Ho is ablo to give life to Shakespeare’s characters,
and moulds his subjects into neat narrative shape.
Memory scarcely ever fails him, or, if it does, he
pops in a word with the easy assurance of a con
jurer. Talking of conjurors, Dr. Lynn can do a
little in the Immortal Bard line. The Doctor has
Hamlet ’ off by heart.
## # #
That member of Miss Minnie Palmer’s
company who wanted boiling down has beon duly
boiled down and his place is now filled by a gontlo-
man who deserves a far less horrible fate. “My
sweetheart ” comes along to Sydney immediately,
i though Melbourne bis. still keeps warm as ever,
.eorge Darrell’s thriller, “ The New Rush,” follows
liss P. at the Bijou. By the way, a son has been
>orn to the actor-author. We hope ho won’t
mte Australian dramas.
## * #
Mr. Philip Beck composed the pome that
at i - on the sta * e of Melbourne
hoatre Royal. 1 his is the pome :
i None of Mr. Beck’s “Crimes of Paris” were a
patch on this Melbourne enormity. And they
.rw., c s:r Kh 10 slvo wu, “" L >»■»• S
*# # #
Frank Clark and his Silk Stockings Com-
pany seem likely to stick at the Victoria Hall
Meibourne, until such time as the wide firmament
is rolled up like a scroll and variety shows have
alT'rmmfi 1 nt PaCe " Th ,® P r< « ra,lll ')c fetches ’em
all round. Ihere is a little burnt cork for the
boys sentimental ballads for the young men and
nemtT 8 ’ w? IOVPIy gS for thc more elderly gen-
tlemen Whenever Frank Clark spots one vacant
an the .? nt he an T no “ nces f ' r eBh ’tractions and fills
P the crevice. Living beauties are exchanged
he ne Vln p lng < * uckeys at t}ie shortest notice, if
he popular voice ever calls for dead divinities the
Management will set ’em up in lovely lZe-Xed
hrouds. As the reward of all this enterprise Mr
hnf k ( h ,IS ®?. c \ lred a regular paying following.’ All
hat the Victona now wants is marble-topped l
aMes veivet lounges, and a license to got di unk
n the premises. As a music-hall, firmly man
mrnne. W ° ° 9m ' SBeat Property in Mel
** * *
The unlucky Alexandra Theatre, Mel-
ourne shut up all of a suddint last week for the
mond time. The Marian Willis season terminated
it ha grand temporance drama which ran for two
mg weary nights. When it opened with “ Mad ”
'« darkly hinted at what the future n UAi h, •
.rtb Mr Martin Si,,»,«."CESSS
the big house and commences his Italian Oner a
impaign on the nth. “ u Trovatore ”isto be
ie pioneer production. Some reallv - n ; f ,v, De
rtists have been engaged, and if sassiety doeslte
Aether”the S^° uld . m ° ve aIon b r satisfactorily.
PUbIIC «" «** »
## # #
Mr. Harry St. Maur is going to run the
lelaide Academy of Music. “ 8 1 t,le
** # #
Venerablo George Coppin, presenting
h the triumvirate’s little cheque at Mai.
urnelheatre Boyal, compared “ Our William ”
Lord Nelson fighting the battle of Trafalgar.
!» 1C V e ™ ln ds us that we nevor sec our William
Murdoch without calling to mind Wellington
the plains of Waterloo. Yes and wtunV n
ink of it, Beach doesn’t go in much for histon?
d hardly relished the reference to Nelson. It wa
ly by a miracle that ho prevented himself from
iring out Nelson , Why, 1 backed him in
gland, and dropped my good greod.”
*# # #
The Woollahra clairvoyant has been de-
mced as a ‘ humbug” by Mrs. Chainey, a lady
ois herself a visionist and sperrit-dealcr in a
?e way of business. There is no doubt tw
9. Chainey has a grand, ghostly grip the
ole thing. She has opened a sort of Kinder-
•ton for mediums in Melbourne, and her fig.
d, the Professor, gives Sunday evening lor
bs at the Bijou Theatre. We accept then with
fldence Mrs. C.’s statement that no real cTair
ant weuid think of delivering up a murderer to
• J. , A ./ ea clairvoyant might have a
18 ion of the tragedy, but he or she would
ainly not split.” This is good news for
•derers, but it convinces us that the sperriL are
## # #
'he Lynch Family of Bellringers are doing
1 business in the N.S.W. country districts B
oncy were last heard of at Dungog, where the
houses were crowded and the thei,nometer so
high that the mercury had to climb out and sit on
top of the machine to wipe its glowing countZ
a nce...".lhe model Strasborg clock now hr,;,,,,
exhibited in Sydney is an interesting subject for
clockmakers and Christians, combining, as it does
wonderful mechanism and high moral sentiment.’
I , 9ho 7i? the Lllno , of day in every part of the
globe, the movements of the solar system, includ-
fh? °, C ] IPSeS f? d a ,, ]ot miscellaneous astronomy
the 12 apostles, tho Devil, the angels of life and
death,, a cherub with a sand-glass, the rooster
that crew twice, and a valuable collection of
Scriptural information. The apostles procosh
over the machine when Death strikes t
while the old Brahmapootra fowl on thn t * r ’
crow, „ Peter and Satan £
every quarter the cherub turns his glass to inti
mate that he is ready for another drink a,id a
dozen other things happen that we Immature
sent no time to describe Maw And!!! 1 pr , e '
£525 out of her recentDishtoZifT/’ B ' l9
K&iS Z
>f her. Subsequently he was inek«u
*ar g e of tanacy
one amateur gentlemen ” is the beastlv mean
onundrum which appeared on the proXime of
' r ® ent ®°ncort at Dunedin (N.Z.) What on
arth are amateur gentlemen,” and how In the
rrd f oubie s qw t c e o tSV hey crowd nine ° f them
Welcome to your friends once more.
Welcome from the distant shore ;
Great by deeds and great by fame,
Welcomo to thy homo again.
Modest manly was thy speech
Going forth the world to teach
That Australia’s worthy son
Meant to keep the bays hp won,
“ Wreathed with laurel leavos thy brow
Iruo to thy trust slill may’st thou ’
On the scroll of fame unfurled,
Write “ Beach, Champion of the World.”


Pepper And Salt
A correspondent of a certain Australian
paper, who was sent to the New Hebrides some
time ago, has been going about enveloped in a
cloud of gloom you could cut with a knife ever
since he returned. Once he was the leading spirit
of a convivial circle of journalists; now —alas,
now !—whenever he makes his appearance he is
like the skeleton at the Egyptian feast, the bailiff
at a family party. One by one the depressed
scribes get up and walk droopingly away till
he is left alone. Thus we found him on one occa-
sion lately, and the look of hopeless misery he cast
upon us made us ask him what his trouble was.
After some hesitation he consented to tell U 3.
“ It was in the island of ” (we forget its name
now) he began, mournfully emptying his pewter,
“ where the event occurred which cast a pall over
my destiny, and made my existence no better than
a prolonged undertakers’ picnic. I was staying
there for some days gathering material for descrip-
tive articles. The natives were very kind to 'me.
I had a native servant—an old woman—who used
to cook forme. She used to make up all kinds of
delicate little dishes. She was very fond of me.
I asked her why, once, and. she told me that I re-
minded her of a son she had lost. One day she
brought me something cooked in a piece of bamboo.
I asked her what it was. She laughed and said,
‘ No mind—you eat um —good.’ Then she split
the bamboo and emptied the contents into a tin
plate. I tasted the food —it was delicious. I never
stopped till I had finished the lot. ‘ You like um ? ’
she said, laughing again. ‘ Ha ! Ha ! Gettum
plenty more.’ I asked her again what it was.
‘ Piece small fellow boy,’ she answered, grinning
demoniacally. ‘ Good Heaven ! ’ I shrieked, ‘ then
I am a cannibal.’ I remembered no move, but when
the schooner called for me the captain told me he
found me trying to cure myself with salt
water, and said the natives told him I had been
doing this for several days. I may have brought
up that piece of boy or not, but whether or no, I
knew I was a cannibal all the same, and the hor-
rible part of it,” he concluded in a shuddering
whisper, “ is that I have hungered for human
flesh ever since. That’s why they all avoid me as
you see.” He rose up and went into the next
room to call for more liquor, and—we left by the
back way.
* *
Extract from Duncan Gillies’ guileless and
ungrammatical epistle to Sir Pat. :
11 For nome little time / have thought that your younger
sister Victoria might be able to aid you materially in your
effort to make your centennial commemoration worthy of
the occasion We propose to take advantage of
it, and when all your fetes are over—when your brilliant de-
monstrations in Sydney are brought to a close, your younger
sister will invite your visitors to come and see the Australian
world’s fair at our exhibition.”
I, we, your younger sister ! Now, by the shade of
Lindley Murray, what does the man mean ? Is
the exhibition his, theirs, or her’s 1 Sir Pat. hopes
to be in a position to reply in the course of a few
days. Heaven help him in his task. Will he
address the letter to Duncan, to them, or to his
blessed sister 1 Or will —but this is madness.
Oh, Duncan G., you seem to be
Of words a crazy twister—
The I and we they don’t agree
At all with Younger Sister ;
For, can’t you see, if We and She
Are merely Duncan Gil-lies,
Then She is He and you are three
And all a muddle still is.
• *
Henry Ward Beecher has been rubbing
some of the English parsons the wrong way on
the all-important “hell” question. His farewell
sermon at the London City Temple was attended
by some 2000 ministers and aspirants for holy
orders. Yet, in the presence of such a sulphurous
multitude, Beecher let go after this fashion : “If
a man believes in conscious torment of men in
hell, then if he ever smiles, or gets married, or
goes into convivial company with jest and joke,
he is a monster. (Sensation.) In regard to the
doctrine as taught by the barbaric theologians of
the middle ages, and as taught by the barbaric
denominations of to-day—it is not according to the
mind and will of the New Testament.” (Tumult.)
Then did the blood of the dissenters boil in their
redeemed veins as they rose and cried, “ It is
Biblical truth /” Yes, dear friends, and hell is
Biblical truth to which we intend to hang on like
a bull-pub to a beggar’s leg. We like Beecher,
and think he means well, but we can’t part with
our doctrine. We have been threatened with
everlasting fire for so many years that it has lost
its terrors, and we have begun to like the pros-
pect. Gently strike the gridiron with a red-hot
poker, while we admonish Henry Ward B. :
There is to be a Bible-burning episode in
Melbourne. The National Publishing Company of
N.S.W. have been exporting the Scriptures to
that colony, but as their sacred volume contains
the Revised Version, as well as that old one
with the piteous, smudgy grovel to King James
on the title-page, the consignment has been seized.
This is rough on rats, indeed. The Revised
Scripture, with perdition struck out and the lake
of fire drained off and converted into a demoniac
tennis-ground, proves to be the property, by copy-
right, of the Universities of Oxford and Cam-
bridge ; they alone have the right to issue the
true story of Jonah and his revised whale, and
people who don’t buy from them will have to be
content with the old, mean, vulgar whale of the
dark ages. The two colleges get a per-centage
out of Moses and Goliah and Ananias ; they charge
commission on Job and his boils, and exhibit the
old patriarch for the sake of the gate-money, like
a spotted hyena in a show ; and they hire out the
Israelites as if they were so many kanakas on a
Queensland plantation. It would be difficult to
imagine a grosser outrage than this, and the only
redeeming feature in the whole miserable affair is
that the new version is not wanted in Australia.
What is required for this country is a Bible with
250 perditions, each keeping up a temperature of
a billion degrees Fahrenheit, and in which eter-
nity is made twice as long as it was before, so that
the larrikin may have time to howl for a good
long spell in each.
* * *
A grievous wrong which is habitually per-
petrated on the white Australian in gaol has been
brought under our notice by Mr. Frederick Hay,
an ancient and spectacled gentleman who did us
the honour of visiting this office the other morn-
ing. Mr. Hay’s face illustrates the insult of which
he complains, for he has only a slight foam of
whisker round the shores of his countenance, and
his hair is cut very short. The hair, we may add,
has a tint of red, a peculiarity which, we imagine,
is redheaditary in the family. One night some
months ago Mr. Hay had “ about six drinks,” and
took a beer home in a bucket for his wife. That
lady swigged it off, and then her lord and master
gave her all his income except 9d., and went out
for another drink and a plug of tobacco. He had
the drink, and was going along thinking of things
in general, when he was “scruffed and run in ; ”
the charge was “drunk and disorderly, yer wor-
ship, and used bad language to a hossifer while
executin’ his dooty,” and in default of a fine Mr.
Hay went up for three months. He was then
handed over to the gaol-barber, who chopped
down his hair, scraped away the boundary
line which separated the desert of his jaw
from the wildnerne-s of his neck, and turned
him out into the exercise-yard where he was
laughed at by niggers and Chinamen who were
not cropped and shaved. Mr. Hay would have
called earlier to draw our attention to this dis-
crepancy ; but he goes to gaol regularly twice a
year for not sending his children to school, and he
had a little episode of this kind to work off on the
expiry of his three months. He arrived, how-
ever, last Monday, and a member of our staff
being told off to interview him—a man who is
kept in reserve for these jobs because he can look
so like a born fool: it comes natural to him to do
so —we learnt what he wanted to know. Mr. Hay
had a big bale of literature about him which he
had written to show how N.S.W. lands could be
sold all round at £5O an acre ; he said he had
shown this document to Parkes and Parkes had
said that he would have pushed the scheme
through if he had been 20 years younger, but life
was too short now, and the inventor was just
going to pay Sirenry another visit when he was
run in.
* # *
That irrepressible agnostic, Joseph Symes,
was sold the other day as effectually as ever cow
was sold by bailiff. He was delivering one of his fiery
lectures, and was in even better fighting condition
than usual—and Joseph at his worst is a whole
wild-beast-show at fighting. “ Let’s see this God
of yours,” screeched the lecturer, as he struck out
manfully with his best leg ; “ bring out this God.
I’ll give £5 to any man who’ll come along and
prove that he knows this God,” he continued with
a yelp like a lost soul with a cold, and then for
about half an hour he turned the grindstone of
wrath and whooped for someone to bring out a
deity to be smashed. When he had nearly
finished, a small, thin, meek-looking man with a
doubled-up aspect and a racecourse on top of his
mild little head, crawled up on the platform and
sniffed apologetically, while the great Jos. sized
him up and sniffed also with a whole whale-load
of derision. “ My friends,” piped the placid little
man solemnly in a voice like that of a croupy hen,
“ Mr. Symes has said he will give £5 to any man
who can prove that he knows God. Now, about
12 years ago I went to a lecture in a Wesleyan
chapel in a small manufacturing town in Lan-
cashire, and I heard a young man declaring that
he had found the Lord, and he poured forth a
stream of eloquence as he described how he knew
he was saved and what happiness he experienced.
My friends, that young man was Mr. Joseph
Symes. He knew the Lord then, and as he don’t
know him now, I presume that the Lord wasn’t
proud of his acquaintance and cut him dead. I
don’t know how Mr. Symes is to arrange about
that bet, but I think he’d better spend the money
in charity.” Then the small man gave a wheeze
and a groan and sat down.
* * *
The Pall Mall Gazette recently pub-
lished some interesting particulars about “The
Cycle as a War Steed.” According to all accounts
the tricycle is specially adapted to this business
and promises to knock the balloon quite out of
time. The P.M.G. says : “ Two of the great Con-
tinental Powers (Austria and France) have thus
practically shown that they recognise in the cycle
an invention capable of adding to the methods of
modern warfare, and with cycling making great
progress in Germany, it may safely be affirmed
that the time is near at hand when these machines
will be on military trial in the Fatherland.” Eng-
land will follow suit, and the war telegram of the
near future will tell how “ General Jones behaved
with great gallantry, having three triycles shot
from under him. The army is now busily repair-
ing the wounded machines.” —
Whenever anybody in Sydney wants to
play a practical joke, he chooses that venerable
nonagenarian Mr. Samuel Levey of the Oxford
Hotel as his victim, knowing that that gentle-
man’s vast panorama of brain will cause it to be
found out before it goes too far. Accordingly
when Mr. Levey got a letter the other day,
written on Government House paper, bearing the
official stamp, and signed “ E. W. Wallington,”
as secretary to H. E. Lord Carington, in which he
was requested to consult with His Excellency on
the reform of the N.S.W. civil service, he did not
shine his boots and proceed at once to hunt up
Lord Carington ; he showed the document instead
to Colonial Secretary Dibbs, and as that gentle-
man thought it was a sham and handed the j
forgery ov6r to the police, Mr, Levey hived up his i
buzzing store of knowledge till a better occasion.
In this respect he was more fortunate than an in-
telligent firm in Dunedin (N.Z.). Years ago a
legend on a one-storey wooden shop in Hanover-
street explained that Messrs. “ Rice, Hatton and
Rice, Wholesale Confectioners,” were crowded up
within,, and one day, when Lord Normanby visited
the town, the boss of the hut received a letter
setting forth that the Governor was coming down
to witness the process of boiling lollies and making
toffee out of the contents of the sugar-bucket. “ I
may mention,” said the writer in conclusion
“ that his Excellency is particularly fond of Turk-
ish Delight. It is a madness that runs in the
gubernatorial family.” That day the premises
were scrubbed as white as snow, and enough
Turkish Delight was boiled to make a camel ill
in all its nine stomachs at once, but the governor
came not, and at last a little Hebrew barrister
was consulted by the enraged firm and his verdict
convinced them that they had swamped their
whole stock of sugar in one leathery confection,
and all in vain.
* * *
Field Flowers Goe, the new Bishop of
Melbourne, only accepted the billet because
“earnest prayer” convinced him that “this was
a call from God which he was not at liberty to
disobey.” The dear old story! Doubtless Mr.
Goe persuaded himself and the ladies of his Lon-
don congregation that his mission in Australia
was “ ordained.” To tell him that F. F. Goe sug-
gested and guided the Loard’s policy in this matter
would be to insult him. Yet, as a matter of fact-
Mr. Goe can afford to speak the truth. He is a
fairly rich and liberal man, and has been in the
habit of devoting his yearly salary to the assist-
ance of struggling curates. He might well have
said that he had no money-making object in
entering the Church, but that, being in the Church
he was naturally open to become a Bishop, and
thereby make certain of a reserved seat in the
Kingdom. Instead of this he elected to follow
the old hypocritical custom, and defined the party
offer (Liberal or Conservative ministers respec-
tively arrange whom God shall elect) of a bishopric
as a Divine order. Pshaw! The Almighty
“called” some half-dozen men before Field
Flowers Goe, and all of them declined the job.
* * *
A writer in the Melbourne Herald,
i speaking of the condition of the morgue, says
| “ Everything in the room for the dead is utterly
forlorn and depressing. This ig not as it should
be. If there is anything a corpse likes more than
another it is an appearance of cheerfulness about
any place he is staying in. He doesn’t want any-
thing rollicking or riotous, but he does enjoy quiet
and unostentatious fun. We should say, there-
fore, that if the morgue were fitted up with a
billiard and one or two card-tables, a smoking-
room, and a bar —especially a bar —with a few
sporting prints on the walls, it would be a popular
place of resort with the corpses of the near future.
There is no reason because a man happens to be
dead that you should make the world gloomy for
him.
General Booth has raised the required
£5OOO and the Harmy is saved. The contributors
were eager and enthusiastic, and many of them
dropped into poetry that sounded like a cross
between a curse and a lunatic asylum. One poor
beggar, for example, sent his last sixpence—and
the General was mean enough to take it—accom-
panied by the following :
“ I never had any veal or ham,
A very little mutton or lamb,
I’ll do without my sugar and jam,
Or anything for ■ —.”
We always admire sincerity, and we reckon that
after all this that sad little ass will get the first
bite at the ham-bone in Heaven, and will pass it
on to the Archbishop of Canterbury when it ia
picked bare.
Even in art, dry bones, skeletons, and
slaughter are growing fashionable. The coming
artist of Europe is a great genius. Jan Van
Beers, a young Belgian, who, beginning with
wonderfully realistic pictures of beautiful nudity,
sprang into greatness by producing a picture re-
presenting the patriot, Van Arte veldt, lying
bound with ropes, dead, rotting, and mutilated
after his murder by the Flemings. He also struck
oil by a picture of a corpse holding up its own
bleeding head, and he has made a great third suc-
cess by a work now being exhibited at Paris. It
is hung in a dark corner of a saloon, and repre-
sents a skeleton draped in white. As the visitor
goes up two hollow notes are struck on a goDg,
there is a flash of green light, and then the
painted outrage bobs down by machinery, and
shows the visitor his or her face reflected in a
mirror held in its bony hand. At this stage of the
joke a lady generally faints, and has to be carried
out.
HOW TO CATCH AN ALLIGATOR.
The sportsman is here seen starting in quest of alliga-
tors, armed with a gun, a dog, a concertina, and a mind
conscious of rectitude. The use of the concertina will
appear later on.
Having discovered indubitable “ signs ” of alli-
gator near the brink of a river
He ties the dog to a neighboring tree and plays a sonata
upon the concertina—not so much to beguile the time as to
make the dog howl and thus attract alligators.
Naughty Ward Beecher,
Unorthodox preacher,
To rob your poor brother of bliss ;
They have such a yearning
To see us all burning
In a sulphur and brimstone abyss.
Hot torture eternal
In regions infernal
Is what they apportion to us ;
They’re waiting and willing
To watch us a-grilling—
And you go on talking, sir, thus.
What use their salvation
If certain damnation
Is not to be our wretched lot !
Their spiritual pleasure
Consists, in a measure,
In thinking that we’ll get it hot.
Naughty Ward Beecher,
We humbly beseech yer
Scoff not at their cherished desire—
Preach torture eternal
In regions infernal,
And don’t try to put out Hell fire.
Once mail-clad knights fought fearful fights
With lances and with axes —
Those barons bold in days of old
(Who never paid no taxes),
Did daring deeds on armoured steeds
Substantial sort of cattle ;
But customs change, now men arrange
Another plan of battle.
When helm and shield on bloody field
Gave place to something lighter,
And bayonets keen came on the scene,
And bullets smote the smiter —
Knights still, of course, preferred a horse
Wherewith to do their charging ;
On those ideas, it now appears,
We really are enlarging.
Next time we go to fight the foe
And decimate their forces,
We’ll go on wheels and show our heels
To everything like horses,
With sword in hand, .you understand,
O’er bodies dead and gory
Our knights will ride in all their pride
On tricycles to glory.


In this life it is the unexpected that always happens
—An alligator appears according to order, but from
an entirely unlooked-for quarter.
“ Don’t leave off on my account, I am very fond of
music, and musicians, 1 assure you,” remarked the
boss alligator.
A few other choice saurian spirits joined in the re-
past—The dog was reserved as a last course bv wav
of dessert.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
!llaiiy Rickards is tho son of a clergyman
Mr. Shepherd Smith, late general manacre
of the Bank of N.S.W., left £20,180.
Mr. Spring, late of the Monaro Mercury
has picked on Picton to start another paper.
A well-known Sydney reporter won £2OOO
over the Melbourne Cup. He is still alive.
r John L. Sullivan threatens us with a visit.
New South Wales will have a Premier at last.
A London paper estimates that GOO babies
have been named “Randolph Churchill” during
one month.
King George of Tonga is dying. It is
just about time. The missionaries have
‘ snavelled ” his kingdom.
Harry Adams, remarkable as the boy
saved from the Ly-ee-Moon, is a pupil at Newing-
Lon College, Sb&nmore, Sydney.
The Vagabond likes grouse. We never
knew a vagabond who disliked any sort of game
especially when it cost nothing.
That meddlesome Reverend who designed
the Adelaide Vigilance Society aas come to
Sydney to abide. His name is Turnbull.
Hall, the fashionable New Zealand
loisoner, sings while at work with the pick. His
nouth and countenance look awfully wicked since
le was shaved.
Sir Arthur Sullivan,” says the Referee,
‘ is the most popular composer in England, and
e has probably made more money by the art than
ny other man living or dead.”
The latest is that the fund raised for Miss
louston, lately tried with Hall for poisoning at
imaru, will total £lOOO, which will serve as a
owry at her approaching marriage.
The recent vacancy on the S.M. Herald
iitorial staff has, as usual, been filled by the ap-
ointment of a Congregational clergyman who
veth the flesh-pots of the journalistic Egypt.
It is proposed to form a company for the
irpose ot buying the right to telephonically con-
ict Sir Julius Vogel's nose or snore with the I
o»t dangerous parts of the New Zealand coast,
to. lay it on, so to speak, as an all-round and j
effectual foghorn which can always be depended
on to sound a note of warning on the darkest
night or during thick and foggy weather —gout,
Cabinet meetings, &c., permitting.
Judge Windeyer’s health, we now hear,
has of late been in a dangerous condition, From
time to time he has been reduced by overwork to
an almost fainting condition, and it is this which
has prompted him to take nine months’ rest.
Perhaps the oldest man in Australasia is
Mr. John Ross, who resides near the Bluff, New
Zealand. Ho was 31 years of age when Waterloo
was foughf, and is thus now 102 and is still hale
and hearty, many taking him to be only about 70.
“Lord Tennyson,” we read, “has got
another volume of poems in the press”—dedicated
to Beatrice’s infant, no doubt. The Laureate has
got to come up sharp to time with his drivel
whenever a squalling, sticky, royal babe enters
this vale of tears.
That pretentious person, Stuart Cumber-
land a showman ashamed of his business —is the
latest man who deems it his lieaven-born mission
to write about Australia. “ The Queen’s High-
way from Ocean to Ocean,” is the title chosen for
his forthcoming volume.
About, the oldest sculler in the world is an
Englishman—Dr. Furnival—who is aged 81, and
has won three races this season. At this rate
Beach may hold the championship for 10 years
s©t. Besides, Noah was 1300 years old when he
nrst devoted himself to aquatics.
The general opinion in New Zealand is
that the authorities are reluctant to follow the
limaru poisoning matter up, being anxious to
!*P. re the feelings of Sir John Hall and family,
tli v, 1 WOU M no doubt be' terribly lacerated by
ne hanging of such a near relative as the accused
uian.
Mr. David' Syme, of the Age, shortly
departs for Yurrup with his wife and a daughter,
ne trip i 8 only to last nine months or so, but
will be pi en ty 0 f time for David to get a
no • i • a ? rewar d for his newly-developed Ini-
Policy. Graham Berry will work that all
n ght.
In Henry {XX., of Reuss-Kreutz, not
S * nce le< * fco the altar the famous circus-
uer, Clotilda Loisset, in spite of all that his re-
n, ves could do to frustrate him. After the cere-
* Was over Hemy fell on the neck of his bride,
uln a quivering voice said: “My dear and
only Clotilda ! ” “ My dear Henry the Twentieth,”
she sobbed in reply. Henry is Prince over a terri-
mentaboUt a 9 big as a Sydne J r suburban allot-
Sir Charles Gavan Duffy has been blessed
with another Young Irclander. Charles Gavan,
who is seventy something, has been married threo
times, and is almost as remarkable a man as He
Cesseps, who, marrying when beyond three score
a nd ten, has since had born to him a dozen
children.
The Rockhampton (Q.) Argus —the penny
Balaam of a dog-kennel—curses Sir John Robert-
TwV 1 th ? tropical soda. The great Samuel
Q A ales ’ Y h .° now rules in Brisbane, denounced
Vn aS bei , ng , S° yorned by “ old fossils,’ and
Sir Johns reply leads the Northern luminmary to
say that His literary antics remind one of the
peculiarities of an ancient dandy who, toothless,
spindle-shanked, and decrepit, still blusters to
men and leers at ladies.” It also wants the old
veteran hung out to dry.”
A good many people still remember J. G
Griffin, the Rockhampton goldfields commissioner
viho murdered his two troopers and stolo tlio bank-
notos which they were escorting—a transaction
ror which he was afterwards hanged. Weil it
may be interesting to learn that the skull of the
I aforesaid J. G. Griffin mysteriously passed into the
possession of a certain N. S. W. member of Parlia-
ment, who has had it mounted in silver and
fumed into a card-basket.
Life, a London Tory organ, which is as
high-toned as a dog on top of a piano, reports that
the King of the Belgians was seen not long ago
shaking hands with a hotel-keeper at Baden
after which his majesty struck out on foot for the
railway station. This was the potentate who
used to go out at night with Parkes-“ Me and
the Ring was how Sirenry described the festive
pair—and we are sorry for tho sake of Parkes that
he doesn t keep up more style.
The “Rev. Dr. Keatinge ” has been
jetting at the Dublin peoplo. The naughty man
mfciated as curate in charge of a suburban
murch while the vicar was taking his annual
rest. He preached Canon Liddon’s sermons
sxtempore, and rescued souls in a style which
iroved him to be slopping over with the spirit.
hen the vicar returned and “sacked” Dr. Keatinge
he flock got up an indignation meeting and
tarted a subscription for the temporary shepherd.
Has! it seems that the Rev. Keatinge is one
Arthur 11. More ton, a convict of 30 years' stand
ing. His mania is to assume a surplice and read
somebody else s sermons. What a miserable bent
for a criminal nund !
Sadly and sorrowfully we clip this froi
the Melbourne Herald. It is one verse of
Welcome to Beach, and sheds new light uno
his doings in England— a 1
We Victorians well know how
Nobly you upheld that row
With ho«or and with merit, ]
Manly courage oft displayed,
Self reliance, ne’er dismayed,
Your children will inherit.
In the name of all that’s painful, what was th
row about ?
We regretfully record the death of Mr
Sapsford late architect to the City Corporation
It is said that Mr. Sapsford “ succumbed to phy
sieal prostration.” This, we fancy, is only anothe
way of recording the fact that an honourable and
sensitive gentleman was worried into his grave bv
a iot of swinish aldermen. It is well known that
Mr. Sapsford never recovered from the shock he
received at the time of his suspension and the
unnecessarily brutal and “privileged” abuse
heaped upon him by certain members of the
Counci while he was defenceless. Under this he
gradually sank and died. It is said that deceased
a th . e age of i0 ’ but we are inclined to
doubt the statement, as he had been in the ser
vice of the city for seven years.
The only L. L. Smith, who has returned
wl^w P ,i, a prcmd and ha PW doctor, has
earned that the people at the Admiralty office
know of L. L. Smith’s exertions in gettir’g gun-
boats for Victoria. He has enjoyed a twenty
minutes interview with President Cleveland, and
inim S .^ b f pi if eaddr , esBin case tlle president
shouldn tbe feeling well, young man. He has
discovered that the old conntry is a very one-
horse place compared with Victoria, and all the
while he has been keeping most superior society.
Speaking of his social successes L.L. said “ I
have hobnobbed with dukes, counts, and barons
and as for knighte, they were to be fallen across
all day Tong ” Lucky Smith ! It has never been
our lot to fall across a knight, but we have occa-
sionally tripped up over a dog. In those cases we
have generally kicked the dog. By the way on
one point the medicine-man is as silent as’the
grave. He doesn t tell us which members of the
Koyal family applied to him for advice and assis-
tance, nor what treatment he prescribed.
The vignerons of Sandhurst (Tie.) —cheer-
ful growers of the gladdening grape—are in
spasms of terror just now. Some 3-ears ago the
vine3-ards of Geelong were destroyed in the evic-
tion of that genial insect the phylloxera. Ever
since then the wine-growers of that district have
been moving heavea and earth, and the Vic-
torian Government, to obtain permission to re-
plant their vineyards; and the wine-growers of
Sandhurst have been using all their influence in
the same quarters to prevent the permission being
granted. Maddened at this, the Geelong vignerons
have threatened to bring up millions of the phyl-
loxera without muzz’es, and let them loose over
every vine3'ard within 50 miles of Bendigo, unless
the opposition is withdrawn, Since the expres-
sion of this threat every man within the radius
mentioned who has an old grape-vine growing
over his fowl-house has been sitting up all night
watching it, with a loaded shot-gun lying across
his knee, and a glare of incipient murder in his
eyes. The most fearful part of -the thing is its
inyster3 r . Nobody around Sandhurst knows what
a phylloxera is like. We hear—though we do not
put implicit confidence in the statement, as we
got it man on the staff of one of the opposi-
tion papers—that a Melbourne reporter, who had
gone up to Sandhurst to describe the Juvenile and
Industrial Exhibition held there lately, was ar-
rested on suspicion of being a phylloxera in dis-
guise. Perhaps the havoc he made fijeong the
wine? at the exhibition may have given rise to the
suspicion. Bi t there is nothing 10 prove that he
did. make any particular havoc among them. The
THIS WICKED
WORLD
w :£ h f, rit y in the Ly-ee-Moon case began
with the hon. sec. Where will it end ?. John
W C SW? PS t i ie w T Ina P agee Hotel - near Bourke
Edward Lll ley devoted himself to
dunking the nrom.ses dry. He did not succeed,
the disgu ®t he heaped up a lot of fuel on
the verandah and set it on fire. Then Leek
bin/.ed at him with a revolver, and now Lilley is
m the dismal tomb and Leek is in gaol. Of such,
C 2 UW J Mr ‘ JoEeph Bil] - superm-
tendent of a N./. Sunday-school, has been arrested
°? £ s °'' lou f. dairge in connection with some young
gnls attending the school Gold is said to have
been found within 100 miles of Cambridge Gulf
l wo kanakas at Maryborough (Q.) had a duel
with tomahawks. One was killed. The trouble
was a coloured gal.” At an inquest on a
Chinese flro-eater, Charters Towers (Q.), fl ve
boxes of Bell and Black’s matches were wasted in
swearing Celestial witnesses Mount Tarawcra
3 sitting up again “Kin ye tell me av the
landlord is the tinant of this house ?” is the query
which a Sydney “mimber av (he l'oorce” puts
wh-m ne wants to discover whether the occupier
ol a house is the owner.
* * *
William Holland, aged 105, who has just
died in Dublin, was a great smoker “Keen
wmfi i P ° W(lei ' ll d, ' y ” « a Piece of advice which one
would have thought it superfluous nowadays to
j address to the British seaman, yet, according to
I the Army and Navy Gazette, on board the
Hearty a quantity of water has percolated to the
magazine in consequence of imitation rivets
of rod lead having been used instead of tlie
genuine article Since June, 20 political con-
victs have escaped from Siberia. Either Siberia
is running over or there is a leak in the bottom of
it, for there was a time when only one prisoner
got away in 25 years, and anyone who tried to
escape, was generally blown up before he had
travelled a mile The population of France has
only increased about half-a-million during the past
five years Fraulein Haussmann, the aimless
lady artist, was married the other day at Nurem-
berg. She signed the marriage contract with her
feet, and the wedding-ring was placed on the
fourth toe of her right foot.
I wholei story— about the reporter—is probably no
more than a malicious canard. It seems that the
phylloxera is, in appearance, something like
lobster, only it has wings. It belongs to the bu
rowing class of animals, and is perhaps the on]
living thing (with the exception of the Queen
land country editor) which is never sober. It is
good judge of wine, though, and might make a
honest living as sampler in a cellar only for it
inseparable objection to leading a respectable life
it is of a gloomy and unsocial disposition, neve
setting cm up ” for a brother phylloxera whos
vine has been sucked dry. It is said that there i
no such marrow-freezing sight out of Hades—o
probably in it—as one of these infernal insects in
it of delirium tremens— which it appears, and
■ ery naturally they aro a good deal subject to
the devil could never have tried St. Anthony in
his shape or it would have been all over wit]
hat good old man. All this information we have
in the authority of the gentleman who told us tho
tory of the Melbourne reporter. Perhaps, as
able bUtl ° n t 0 natural histoI T> is equally unre
A romance of the sea. About a year
mco, a young lady of Dunedin (N.Z.) got married
~a y ° uth ! al Dutchman named Hoogklimmer.
fter the Hoogklimmer honeymoon the couple
ent to Melbourne and started love in a cottage
e. Ihe husband had a situation as bookkeeper’
nd all went well for some weeks until one morn-
g Hoogklimmer got up very early to go sea-
Ulnng, and did not return. His clotheS wore
und on the beach, and he was bolieved to have
Jen drowned. His young wife went into mourn-
g for him, and after alt aitempts to find any
aco of him had failed she left Melbourne and
ent back to her friends in Dunedin. After a
;ars widowhood, however, Mrs. Hoogklimmer
>t a telegram stating that her husband was alive
his mothers house in Holland. Various ac-
unts are current as to how he got there, but the
uo Bulletin version is this. Being an excel-
lt swimmer, Hoogklimmer started to race a
X. steamer to the Heads. When he got to the
pho was half a mile a winner, and our corre-
(indent who was on board the steamer states
at he then saw a white figure shoot up into the
■and then go down again head foremost into
e boiling surf. That we may take for granted
l .® , '? st Summer of Hoogklimmer on this Bide
the globe. From European papers now to hand
appears that he was found a few days after-
irds floating on a piece of timber, more dead
m alive, on the coast of Norway just outside
(he Maelstrom. If this be true, then there
little doubt that Mr. Hoogklimmer has made
discovery which will revolutionise the presen
system of navigation and render De Leseep
Panama Canal a useless and roundabout way o
reaching the old country. Our theory is that th
young Dutchman was shot through the 8000 mile
or so of the earth’s diameter by some passag
hitherto unknown to the geographical authorities
In all probability this subterranean passage com
municates with the Rip at one end and the Mae]
strom at the other. Bank officials and Sunday
school superintendents will be greatly interestec
in this new route to foreign parts. Mr. Beatty
of Greymouth (N.Z.) also seems to have been or
the same financial “ fake.” He got a tumour re
moved from his eye, and bought a pound of riee
for his mother, and than he vanished, like a quart
of rum inside a policeman. Nothing was left to
tell the tale except half a pound of rice scattered
on a bridge, and a hat floating in a river, but jusl
as the money was about to be paid over Mr.
Beatty turned up in Melbourne. He had got a
new hat and his eye was quite better.
The “Bohemian” of the Sydney Globe
seems to be wonderfully hard-up for useful facts.
His last article—“ Youth that Perishes and Age
that Schemes’’—tilled a column and a half with
too-too utterness about the morals of Sydney, and
this is the nearest approach to anything definite
in the lot: —
“Some day a wild crime is perpetrated by one of there
associated groups, and then grey-headed fathers and motheis
will come again upon the centre of the stage, and with out
stretohed arms will plead for their boys and girls. At prr-
sent they totter along and go down at the wings beside tl e
bps that carried oaths, and the hands that hrld pewters
The boys and girls quit the corners. They come to the front'
Is it native badness, is it wilful badness that actuates them?
Is it no,, rather they know not what ? Their eyes are asrlarp"
their arms are outstretched, their tongues are clanging the*
youth and al m2?' B S ya a .? d BIr J S they are indicated with
youth and liberty and independence. They catch hands
i>ydney I® ? round table which the heroics of juvenile license
and lasciviousness are enacted. Half imps, half devils, they
Of toe*beer. From the wings COB3e CUrsae
6 TvfrifJ 8, Ir , on . l , the wings come prayers of the
l ~ e boy 6 au ;' girls swirl and swear: and the beery
wai l dw a r l ° Udel A n< i d i lnd the anxious Parents despised. 'l'lie
1 C T S « conies from the wings, a last
w y M conies from the wings, the boys and girls whirl for the
® oen ff e °f the stage, lasciviously embracing
amid tobacco juice and profanity, and the curtain fells.”
The beauty of it all is that the article would
answer so many purposes. If it were King Milan,
for instance, who was tottering and swilling beer>
and the Servian troops who were hopping among
tobacco-juice, it would be the most luminous acl
count of the battle of Slivnitza th \t was ever
written,


Premier Gillies gets the Weatherguage of Premier Jennings.


y r \<m
jr A,
‘V **&;*£*****
*' J& *£~C y - &>■ oVofc^
- gg^ySr
yf “j%rf/%zy/zzzp
J?z//c/Z>zr
/'V iS
f e
, l,y
( *iHi.
./'/f n £’ 1
wHfc
S . \ //
’"lt
& i c *,u%
*i3PoZ*t&,
Things in General.


Society
As usual, Lady Carington received a
number of visitors on Thursday, the 2nd inst., at
Government House, Sydney. Since it was found
out that persons could go unasked without run-
ning the risk of being thrown out of the back door
by Die boys in plush, Lady Carington’s circle of
friends has extended, so that she now knows some
quite nice people in the whisky and other lines.
Their presence removes much of the stiff reserve
that formerly characterised gatherings at the
vice-ivgal mansion. There is an easy geniality
about the movements of the company which is
very winning. They plunge for the tea and cake
so naturally and unreservedly, ardform a pleasing
contrast to the proud souls of former days, who
waited until it was brought to them. The action
of one pleasant gentleman, who slipped a shilling
into the splendid butler's hand and a3ked him for
something “ stiff,” was a deliciously delicate hint
to his fair hostess that tea and coffee were not the
liquids yearned for in plebeian circles ; while the
fine fellow who lit his time-honoured pipe beneath
the spreading pine tree in the park, set an example
to the cigarette-whiffing dude, which completely
crumpled up that outcome of society manufacture.
No doubt her ladyship was among the first to
admit the many advantages of permitting the
self-invited to remain and cast by their presence a
charm over what had hitherto been a somewhat
slow and formal ceremonial.
* *
Poor naval officer ! It appears he came
to her and won .her to himself. She was fair and
very rich, while he was but a simple lieutenant.
Time sped, and it was arranged that the marriage
should take place in England. She went to
Europe and he was to follow when he had com-
pleted his period of service. After many months
he reached England and flew on the wings of the
Portsmouth express to London. To leap into a
“ growler ” and reach a grand hotel was the work
of a moment. He found her in, so was her papa,
so was her mamma. Up he flew with open arms,
when a kind of chill fell on him. “ r Did you not
get it ? ” asked mamma. “ Get what ? ” “ Her
letter she wrote breaking it off ; the letter must
have crossed you at sea.” “The cause?” he
asked, “ Well, in Sydney, young man, we were
good enough for you, but it don’t appear that in
England we’re good enough for your folk”—and so
he lost that £50,000.
* * * *
At the Beach reception, a certain surgeon,
equally well-known for his stalwart physical pro-
portions and his good nature, finding himself in
the crush, squared his elbows to save his chest
from being “stove in.” One of those elbows,
however, was forced by the weight of the surging
multitude against the chest of another and weaker
man, and presently the doctor heard something
crack. “Oh!” groaned the much-elbowed man.
“Crack!” again—and another rib went. “lam
dying! get a doctor !” said the broken-ribbed man
faintly. “ Ah, yes,” remarked the surgeon, ex-
amining his patient after a lane had been cleared
through the crowd, “ I am the nearest doctor.”
And he took the poor fellow home with him.
* * *
We have heard a good deal about Rose-
bery that has endeared him to us. When here he
showed hardly any contempt for the colonies,
which was most forbearing on his part, as he was
the victim to more sycophantic slobber than falls
to the lot of most men. This made us love him,
but when our only Peeress backs up our opinion
with a tale of unbounded audacity, we feel in-
clined to worship him next after Beach. Says the
lady:—
“ At Christchurch, Lord Rosebery was celebrated principally
f rr his habit of taking claret at breakfast instead of coffee or
tea. He was famous, too, in the football field, and on the
river. Yet of the gentler arts of courti r he was not alto-
gether innocent. Walking one dull day in the neighborhood
of Windsor he met the Queen, who recognised him, and
made a remark on the gloominess of tbe sky. ‘Madame,’
quoth Lord Rosebery, ‘ it is always fine where you are.’ The
Queen was so delighted that she mentioned l.ord Rosebery
to herself as a possible recipient of a Princess's hand. It is
whispered that Lord Rosebery was aware of the compliment
the Queen designed to pay him, and did not appreciate it. It
is no secret that the revenues attached to the Earldom of
Rosebery are not great—not, indeed, as large as the wants of
a man of their present owner's sporting and other proclivities
require. If, however, Lord Rosebery was a few thousands in
debt at tbe time of his marriage, so much the greater was the
luxury of possessing a wife with a few millions.”
* * *
When To Whiti, prophet, of New Zealand,
emerges from the jug of the tyrant, the chances
are that he will find his occupation gone. No
doubt he will return to his former haunts and
rear his long brown figure on end and bark as
before, but in his absence the Mormons have been
seeking converts among his dusky flock, and he is
likely to find himself at a discount. The glorious
prospect of having as many wives as they like ha 9
proved too much for the copper-kettle-coloured
tribes, and they are thinking of starting en masse
for Salt Lake. The society at this Paradise, by
the bye, must be getting rather mixed now, for
any horsey, doggy savage who can howl “ Long
live Brother Brigham Young !” is made welcome,
and the uglier and greasier he is the more eagerly
he goes on the grab for wives. It must be rather
depressing to the now female convert, though,
when a saint, who used to live on grubs and rum,
becomes a suitor for her hand.
* * *
A poor little nobleman has just got into
trouble. He is the eldest son of a British peer, and
is a small, sallow, flat-chested individual with a
melancholy smile that seemed to come all the way
from his liver, and he fell in love with a sweet
little woman who had two small words to say and
only one small article of attire to wear, in a bur-
lesque. The young lady scorned him, however,
because h® was poor, and it was only when he
turned up in sudden affluence and began spending
about £lOO a week in entertaining his charmer
that she agreed to be civil to him. Bub when his
fathf r, the haughty marquis, and his aristocratic
mother returned from a tour they didn’t smile to
any serious extent, for of all the peer’s wardrobe
nothirg remained but a two-year-old belltopper,
and the marchioness had absolutely nothing to
wear except a pair of stockings, 150 pawntickets,
and one earring. If they had remained away
only a month longer the house would probably
have been gutted, and nothing left except a
coronet and a poker.
The Marquis and Marchioness of Stafford,
with Viscount Tarbat, have been doing the Gipps-
land ranges. The distinguished tourists were
kind enough to approve of the Black Spur and
pronounced the ferns “ haw, splendid bai
■jawve 1”
* * *
Actresses will he interested to hear that
the old Marquis of Ailesbury has quietly popped
off in his 75th year. By his decease Dolly Tester,
ex-chorus lady at the London theatres, is entitled
to clap a coronet upon her snowy brow. She
married the disgusted old gentleman’s grandson
and heir, a while baok. Dolly has not been pre-
sented at court, but she will make a “slap-up”
marchioness. The new Marquis used to masquer-
ade as a costermonger.
* -* #
A Melbourne Baptist has written to the
Heraid, protesting against the encouragement
of religious dissipation at bazaars. He asks :
“ How can the Baptists of South Melbourne hold
up their principles as followers of the Lord to the
young people of the Sabbath-school after training
them for weeks to act as ‘ Living Draughts ?’ ”
Without exactly approving of bazaars (for which
it is impossible to find any authority in Holy Writ)
we must say that “ Living Draughts” is rather an
improving game for the young. The little hoys
and girls can learn a grand lesson from it. In the
first place it teaches them always to act on the
square. It teaches them that a black is as good as
a white on the human draught-board. It teaches
them to be always ready for the worst—one being
taken while the other one is left. It teaches
them that the Living Draught who misses an op-
portunity gets “huffed.” Finally it teaches them
that by boldly removing all obstacles In one’s path,
I or by sneaking quietly along in the side walks of
THE IDEA ! HE SWORE TO CHEKISH HER.
“ Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands . . . . for the husband is
the head of the wife.”
life, one can become a king and move whithersoever
he iisteth. Oh, yes ! we certainly believe in this
game. And what, may we ask, is the average
clergyman in his pulpit,but a Living Draught—of
the most soothing and' sleep-compelling descrip-
tion ?
* * *
“Dagonet,” in the llefer.ee, lately alludfecl
to a medical opinion that prison-diet and’exercise
were excellent things for a complete restoration
to health. A lady has taken him too literally,
with an appalling result. The lady’s husband will
explain ;
“ Dear Sir, —When you ware writeing about prison-diet
doing people so much good you did not know what, harm
you ware doing now my wife is a martcr to indigestion so
when she saw your paper on Sunday and as,she had tryed
ever thing else she said she would like to try prison diet so
on Tuesday haveing a very bad attack of indigestion she
went out and insulted the first policeman she : met and now
she is doing seven days with hard labour this will he a warn-
ing to you i hope to be carefull how you write as some people
believe all you say.—Yours, &c. I’.S.—l would have sined
my name but i have been disgrace enonght.
* * *
Away at Echuca (Vic.) a love-sick little,
lady, named Adelaide Pyser, has been telling fibs
about her age. She is youDg, is Adelaide, yet not
so young that she did not want to get married.
’Tis a disease which has been epidemic among the
darlings ever since Eve’s time, and Adelaide
merely fulfilled her womanly mission by catching
on to it. So she told a fib to the registrar,represent-
ing herself to be not so much a chicken as she
looked. Somebody exposed the pious fraud, and
the young bride stands committed for trial. She
will probably he let off with a blessing from the
jury and a wedding present from the Judge, but
in the meantime pretty (our heart tells us she
must be a daisy) Mrs. Adelaide Pyser is a blush-
ing object of sympathy. To prosecute a lady for
making a false declaration about her age ! Oh-
pass the banjo :
The coming man is obviously a woman,
but the Referee thinks she must give up being a
woman if she wants to score a success. Speaking
of female doctors, “ Dagonet ” says :
“ One of the first concessions that lady studtnts must
make if they wish to compete with the male sex is to put
aside all idea of the cares of maternity. . . . Those
young women who are ready to forego one of the chief duties
of their sex may, in the course of a generation or two, study
the ‘(ologies’ with impunity.”
Yes, in the course of a generation or two. But if
they are to give up the “cares of maternity,”
where in the name of Dibbs and all his angels is
that generation or two to come from ? Are we to
give np babies and import Chinamen instead ?
* * *
A petition for the taxation of bachelors
has been presented to the French Chamber of
Deputies. It alleges that there are half a mi’-
lion of these animals in Paris alone. Now,
Shaekell !
* * *
Life suggests that the “ tall black hat and
black mourning coat have destroyed the chivalrous
sentiment wliieh characterised our forefathers.
Our unsightly garments,” it goes on, “may be
held responsible for the recent development of
Socialistic theories whichare having such a baneful
effect on our politics, and this from the fact that by
dress the social distinctions of birth and ’educa-
tion are lost.” We never yet knew even a Tory
give himself away so cheaply as this ; the man
who wrote the above paragraph isn’t fit to edit a
tomato. The aristocracy are losing ground he
acknowledges, because they are no longer “dressed
up,” and as they can’t hold their own by intellect
or anything else of a useful kind, he goes on to
urge that they should revert to swords and wigs,
and other fixings appropriate to a purple monkey
climbing up a yellow stick.
* * *
The irrepressible Melbourne phrenologist
has turned out a little essay on Lady Carington
and the perfection of womanhood. They are
strangely mixed up together, it seems. Perfection
is Lady C. and Lady C, is perfection.' • According
to the sage it has taken three centuries to build
up the N.S.W. Governoress. The order for her
was given 300 years ago, and was faithfully exe-
cuted when Lady Carington came as a “ perfect
woman baby on this planet.’ All the while other
men and women have been sweating, and toiling,
and starving in order that the ancestors of this
■estimable lady might live a life of calm and cul-
tured ease. It was necessary that those ancestors
should “ lisp their French m the nursery,” enjoy
a musical training “ coeval with their growth,”
and, above all, “ never see anyone hurried.” If a
break had occurred in the ancestral programme
and anyone in the direct line had been hurried,
then the job of producing Lady C. must have been
commenced all over again. But it is absurd to
dwell upon such painful possibilities. Enough
that we have our perfect woman, and that —again
quoting the sublime snobologist—“ we thank the
old world for sending amongst us such persons.”
In dealing with the physical, apart from the in.
ward spiritual portion of Lady Carington’s perfect
womanhood, the essayist is bold even to rashness.
He says that one of the outward visible signs of
perfection is a “small and finely-moulded person
—a compact and harmonious structure not in any
way pinched or rigged out with absurd paddings.”
We will accept that declaration with childlike
faith. But when he says that “ Apollo’s bow is
perfectly formed in her firm, full, red lips,” we
must ask for a few minutes’ breathing-time.
* * *
Here is a picturesque-slab from “Dagonet”:—-
‘‘The papers, in spite of the silly season, have been excel-
lent reading of late. There are some gems hidden away in
odd corners. Did you read that Zolaesque incident com-
pressed into a paragraph of the young married woman at
Bournemouth who was found dead drunk in the churchyard
by the side of her little child’s grave? She had a bunch of
lovely Powers in her hand, which she had brought to lay
upon the mound above her dead little one’s resting-place.
And there she lay with the flowers clasped in her hand, dead
drunk. She was hauled before a magistrate, and she confessed
that she had taken gin-and-water to fortify herself. Can
you have a grimmer or a weirder incident than this? Gin
and flowers, dead babies and drunken mothers, a child’s
grave and a tipsy woman dragged from it by the police,
there is nothing in the “Assommoir” that equals or ap-
proaches this story from beautiful Bournemouth told in a
paragraph of four lines."
* * *
A Melbourne lady of doubtful antecedents
has been discarded by her husband because she
drives around in hansom cabs, and all that sort of
thing. The inevitable summons case came on,
and one of hubby’s witnesses stated that when he
sa v the lively lady returning from Williamstown
iaces “she looked very impudent arid had the
appearance of the majority of women who ride in
hansoms.” This is rather rough on the sex in
general. We have seen hundreds of ladies who
were not impudent riding in hansom cabs. Most
of them looked innocently happy, and had a
decided appearance of being encircled by a strong,
loving arm, and resting their little heads upon a
broad, affectionate shoulder.
* * *
There is a clergyman in the South of Eng-
land who is openly and obtrusively “going off his
chump”—if, indeed, he ever had a chump. He
can still read his old sermons pretty well, but
when off duty he drivels about with his jaw hang ,
ing, and gazes fishily at his surroundings, or leans
up against a wall and weeps. His parishioners
have stood this a good while, but at last they ap-
pealed to the bishop to get the harmless old im-
becile shifted from the pulpit into an asylum, and
the bishop looked up authorities to see how he
could manage it. This was his answer :
“I am afraid we can do nothing for you. If you have any
charge to raa ke against his moral character wo would deal
with it; but I regret to say that the mere fact that a mt n is
an idiot is no disqualification.”
* * *
“ We are not going to immortalise the
trumpery finery of every village belle,” writes a
Queensland editor who refuses to publish descrip-
tions of the dresses worn at a bush ball. “ Im-
mortalise ” is good.
* * *
In Western Victoria the other day a gover-
ness got married to a bullock-driver. The bride,
who looked charming, was attired in white and
was attended by six bridesmaids who wore blue,
and by six in pink. The oxen are getting a rest
while the honeymoon “ processes.”
* * *
It is alleged that Lord Bertie has fallen a
victim to Australian smiles.
* * #
In connection with the recent suicide in
Woolloomooloo, one witness said that the deceased
sat and listened to someone playing (he pianoforte
and immediately afterwards hanged himself ! We
shouldn’t wonder.
* * *
Thus the lady contributor of the Globe :
“ I am glad ladies have taken the sensible notion
into their heads lately to dress suitably for occa-
sions which demand a display of arms and necks.
For the theatre, high-neck dresses are positively
bad taste ; we need a weeding out of these some-
times, which proves a decided eye-sore to many in
the dress-circle.” People who aren’t “fashion-
able ” are now wondering what sort of an occasion
“ demands ” a display of necks and arms,
* * *
There was a lady on the Flemiugtoii lawn
last Cup day who has rather a spruce record.
There was once a widow, vegetating in the metro-
polis of the Cabbage Garden, very rich, rather old,
and she had a governess, very poor, rather young.
There was a nice young man who used to visit the
widow only to spoon la gouvtrnante, and now we
have all our dramatis persona. But the widow
fell in love with the nice young man, and sent for
him and told him that if he would lead her to the
altar she would pay him £3OOO at the end of three
years. Weil, the nice young man acquiesed. Be
wedded the lady. For three years he treated
her as she deserved. We delight in ambiguity.
A t the end of three years the cash was handed to
him, and the nice young man went away for a
little trip. The governess, who still remained
with the lady, now asked for three days’ absence
to “see her friend.” It was granted. Three
days rolled into four or five and no go
verness showed up. It was not possible, for she
had eloped with the nice young man overland to
Sydney! Our heroine (the lady) scented the
affair and came after them per express. But
alas ! she only learnt hours previously,
they h-vd departed on the San Francisco boat for
the land of Yankee Doodle.
* #
At a wedding in Sydney, recently, when it
came to the important ceremony of placing the
golden circlet on the bride’s fair hand, the unfor-
tunate groom groped and searched for the ring
everywhere—in his ears, up his glove, among his
hair, but without that success which he vainly
wished for. Matters were at a standstill, and a
grimy pew-opener, redolent of onions and
piety, suggested, in a hoarse whisper, the dcor-
key. But a fair bridesmaid, with a smothered
shriek, fell forward and unearthed the missing
trinket gracefully caught on the lace skirt of the
bride. In his flurry the groom must have held
the ring in readiness too soon, and in the exigen-
cies of “I will” let it fall from his nervous
fingers !
# * *
It was a cruel thing to do, but he was one
of the Government House “push,” and new to
Australia. When he arrived at a Western rail*
way station he was mot by several enthusiastic
loyalists who aspired to an introduction, to attain
which they grabbed his luggage, and having
cained ic to the drag awaited for the expected
honour. It came not, but just as the horses
started on their wild career, the Hon. Noodle,
Poor Adelaide Pyser, the darling deviser
Of a scheme to get “fixed” as regards her
affections,
Declared she was older than mother had told her,
And some cuss is raising some stupid objections.
But Adelaide Pyser, when wrinkled and wiser—
When a few of her bountiful tresses she’s shed-
ding—
Will make herself younger, then some scandal-
monger
Will mention her age on the day of the wedding.
Poor Adelaide Pyser ! We do sympathise er
With you in the hour of unmerited sorrow ;
For, certain as fate er, you’ll want to lose, later,
The years that you took so much trouble to
borrow.


with a lordly “heah, my men,” threw three six-
pences among the crowd. And they departed in
much shame and anger to drown their loyalty in
many “long-sleevers.”
* * *
M. Octave Desneux, of the new Paris
House Sydney, gave a most elegant French
dinner last week to about a dozen gentlemen.
Everything present was French except Bailey’s
frantic efforts to crack up Parkes and Republican-
ism at the same time. The praise of Sir ’Enry
was not in very good taste seeing that all the
pressmen present had not the D.T. disease.
* * *
“An Australian cockatoo was noticed in
Hyde Park yesterday. He had apparently just
escaped from captivity.”—London Paper. Which
of the “ representative Australians ” are they
girding at in this libellous style, we wonder ?
* * *
In the S.M. Herald of Monday, 22nd
November, 1880, we find the following choice
thing:—
" De Montfort-Bromley—Ward.—November 7, 1882,
»t Sydney, V. de Montfort-Bromley, late of 16th (Qucen’B)
Lancers, youngest son of the late E. E. S. G. de Montfort-
Bromley, of De Montfort Hall, Kent, England, grandson of
the late Edward Ford de Montfort-Bromley, M.D.R.V. (for-
merly Physician Extraordinary to the Duke of Sussex, and
subsequently Na*al Officer and Colonial Treasurer of Tas-
mania), and nephew of the late Earl of Montfort (Henry
Bromley), to Helena, fourth daughter of the late James
Maitland Ward, C.E., Cambridge, England."
Who shall exorcise from the S.M. ’Herald the
printer’s devil who makes the high and mighty
house of De Montfort-Bromley thus obtrude itself
upon our notice ? Of such arc the glories of Im-
perial Federation!
* •
Tailors will do well to turn their attention
towards Samoa, as honourable senators in that
land are now compelled by law to wear trousers.
Not even kilts are allowed. The fine for appear-
ing in Garden-of-Eden costume has been fixed at
£2O for the first offence.
* * *
An eminent Sydney firm, with a large con-
nection in the stick-up collar and baby-linen in-
terest, are coming out in full bloom on the subjeot
of a testimonial to Stanley of Mount Rennie
notoriety. As they put their insinuating little
scheme in the correspondence column of the
Sydney D.T. and fix their own suave little signa-
ture and the name of their “house” below, it
will serve as a good free “ad.,” and make things
agreeable all round. We are sorry to see Editor
Ward “ had ” in this fashion.
* * *
As Sydney sassiety does all its dancing in
the winter months, there is just now little for us
to record in social matters. The “ upper crust ”
haa mostly gone to the mountains, and left the
ancestral hall in possession of the hired girl and
constable ; consequently there are no dresses to
write of, few engagements, and no gaieties.
Sydney is dull beyond redemption. The bad times
have nothing to do with it, but the temperature
certainly has. There is a popular prejudice
against dancing in wet clothes and limp collars.
* * *
Judge and Mrs. Windeyer have made
arrangements to leave Sydney for a European
tour by the s.s. Rome which takes her departure
on Christmas Eve.
* * *
Miss Gilder has issued invitations for an
evening entertainment in which some of her
pupils take part in scenes from “ The Tempest,”
and “ Midsummer Night’s Dreams,” to take place
at Greenoaks, Darling Point, on the 9th inst.
* * *
Madame Charbonnet-Kellerman’s concert
eventuated on Saturday afternoon and Wednesday
evening last. As usual the proficiency of the
players pleased all people. “The Fairy Queen ”
quartette (Sydney Smith) was the only bungle on
the progamme of Saturday, and that was spoiled,
not because the players were incompetent, but be-
cause they were, overcome by nervousness. Mr.
Atkinson’s rendering of “ Because of Thee ” Was,
jor a wonder, not at all enjoyable,
4 OCLOCK TEA
H.M.S. Nelson, now at Tasmania, is expected to return to
Sydney before Christmas.
Mrs. H. M'Quade, of Bomera, Potts Point, has issued in-
vitations for a musical evening on Thursday, Deicmber 9.
Mr. and Mrs. John'Tait and Miss Tait returned from
Europe in the M.M. steamer Yarra,
Manly Wild Flower Show was worth more than a scent.
. It netted £933.
Mrs. Samuel Bennett, widow of the founder of Sydney
Evening News, died at her residence, Mundarrah Towers,
Coogee, on Sunday, sth inst.
Mr. and Mrs. S. A. Fullford gave a most enjoyable dance
at their residence, Norwood, Hurstville, on the 19th inst.
Invitations were out for 70, but about 65 attended.
The ball-room was splendidly ventilated and its floor perfec-
tion. Dancing was pursued until 3 a.m.
At Holy Trinity Church, Kew’ Melbourne, on the 25th of
last month, was celebrated the marriage of Dr. Herbert A.
Embling, second son of Dr. Enabling and Miss Honty, eldest
daughter of Mr. Herbert Henty, of Kew. The bride's robe
was of white merveilleux and satin with the cutomary wreath
and veil, and a lovely bouquet.
Madame Charbonnet-Kellermann gave a very successful
concert in the Protestant Hall on Wednesday evening, the
Ist Dec., when a very large number of th 3 Sydney fashion-
ables were present.
Mrs. J. M. Purves, Caprera, Elizabeth Bay, gave a large
dinner party at her residence on Thursday evening the 30th.
We don’t often drop into French, though
we can translate Avez-vous le canif demon
oncle” as well as any blood-thirsty burglar in
New Caledonia, but we were a little interested in
a remark in L’Oceanien reading as follows :
“Nous vo-yonE dans le Sydney Mornino Heralh uu
nub-leader daHs lequel on parle d’un ‘ Ticket-of-leave man’ cti
qui correspond en tous points aux homines qui sont, en
France, places sous la surveillance.”
There is an awful deficiency in French journalism
—they have built no word to express that light, airy,
mendacious slush designated a Herald sub-leader.
The above quotation reminds us, though remotely,
of the cry of Mark Twain’s friend when hailing an
Italian bath-woman in her native tongue : “Hi
Cospetto, corpo di bacco, Sacramento, Solferino
soap, you son of a gun ! ’
POLITICAL POINTS
Irish tenants are paying the rent —to
themselvos.
Parkes wants the native Australian vote.
He will have it—against him.
None of Lord Clanricarde’s tenants can
sell even a pig without paying toll to him.
Murray’s grammar in Ireland,
Bull, comparative Buller, and superlative Bullet.
Protectionist Victoria has a surplus of
£3,500,000; Frcetrade N.S.W. has a shortage of
almost as much.
A Protectionist morning newspaper, with
a strong proprietary, on real Democratic lines, is
mooted in Sydney.
Poland is the most thickly-populated part
of the Russian Empire. Is Ireland the most thickly
populated part of the British Empire ?
The Northern Territory people are hinting
at separation from South Australia. In any case,
separation must come tolerably soon.
The German army is to be increased by
41,000 men, the reason being that France is per-
sistently arching her back behind the Rhine.
Henry George was nonjinated for the New
York Mayoralty on the labour ticket. Journals
opposed to Freetrade supported him on this
account.
The Evening News shows signs of “ rat-
ting” to Protection, and the T. and C. Journal
has placed space at the disposal of the Protec-
tionist party.
“ St. Leonards is to have a sewerage
scheme. W ill it rid it of all the rubbish ?” says
the Even Nooze. Is this intended to be rough
on Sir ’Enery 1
Mr. Ballance is doing a little crusading
ala Sir Henry, in N.Z. He used to be Treasurer
over there in the time of that old warrior, Grey,
and when he had finished there was no balance
of any kind left.
The Charters Towers Chinese petition
that, “ although an Asiatic sun burnt on them,
they are free when they touch British soil." The
papers up there want to know what sort of a white
Chinaman wrote that.
Mr. B. I\. Wise, barrister, says he will
not enter the N.S. W. Parliament for at least three
years as he means to devpte that period to his
honourable profession. Time enough to enter a
dishonourable profession afterwards ?
The crowd that turned out to welcome
Beach was about twice as large as that which
hailed the return of the Soudan Contingent. But
then the one brought a pile of legal tender, while
the others only possessed their worn-out boots,
their glory, and the goat.
Sydney E. News is well-informed on Irish
affairs. It tells its readers that O'Brien and
Dillon, proprietors of the United Irishman, are
dodging the police. When was the United
Irishman started ? And there are four O’Briens
M.P.s, besides the editor of United Ireland.
It is cabled that “ A number of Arab con-
victs destined for New Caledonia have embarked
at Toulon.” There is here a deep and bloody con-
spiracy. These Arabs will by and bye escape.
They will make straight for N.S.W. for the pur-
pose of “taking it out” of Plain Bill and the
Soudan gang.
Great dissatisfaction exists among the
Ancient Britons at the dastardly attempt of the
T. and C. Jernjbl to change the name of N.S.W.
We ask Alfred whether he doesn't think 'twould
be better to make the name even a little more
Welsh : “ Lnew Ssouth Wjales.” The last word,
as everybody knows, is the plural of ,f Jog.”
It may not be generally known that even
Her Most Gracious Majesty's throne—or rathe
the best of her lot of thrones—is. stolen property
It used to belong to Runjeet Singh, the Lion o
Lahore, but Britain attacked him and took his
kingdom, and scarcely left him enough to buy
;camel’s hair pencil to paint himself with, when he
couldn’t buy clothes.
Insanity is largely on the increase in
Henniker Heaton’s constituency of Canterbury
and is spreading thence all over the county o
Kent. When the voters have unanimously become
lunatics and roost all day in long rows on the
asylum fence, and sit out in the damp grass al
night and bark at the moon, Henniker’s seat wil
be the safest in England.
The N.S.W. Government are reported
by the daily papers to be vigorously pursuing
their policy of retrenchment. Yet last week a
whole army of clerks in the Survey Department
received in each case a big cheque for “ back
pay,” which they had not the least idea was due
to them. Thus Ministers keep the word of pro-
mise to the ear and break it to the hope.
Some of the knowing individuals of
Europe now assert that Russia means to fight
with somebody in order to get an excuse for re-
pudiating her debt. The Berlin financiers have
been buying up the Muscovite bonds very fast of
late, and Germany stands to lose some £200,000,000
on the transaction. There will be wailing in the
land of Krout should this event come off.
It took four officers, videlicet, one major-
general, one major, and two captains, to inspect
the Nowra (N.S.W.) reserve-corps last Friday,
We are open to bet a whole hatter’s shop that the
strength of the “ army” inspected did not exceed
f 0 or 50 of all ranks. That the colony should on
such occasions have to pay the travelling expenses
from c- ' • "fa crowd of gilded hogus warriors,
mc '■. ..... aever smelt powder in their lives is
n•. ii.ii
Before the last war with Sen ia, Bulgaria
was not only clear of debt, but had a cash surplus
of £BOO,OO0 —more than half a year’s revenue.
The war oost £1,500,000 or thereabouts, most of
which had to be borrowed, so that the nation now
owes the Imperial Ottoman Bank something over
£600,000. This amount will be largely increased
within the next six months, as it is considered in-
expedient to collect taxes while Russian intrigues
are aiming at the annexation of the country.
Wales is turning to Home Rule as a relief
for her woes, as Ireland has long since done. With
an alien Church which, vampire-like, draws the
life-blood of the nation, and with lands owned by
absentees, the position of Wales has yearly become
more desperate, and her only means of deliver-
ance is thought to be legislative independence,
ihe movement has now become established and
Welshmen all the world over are to be appealed
to for the funds necessary for continued agitation.
The Sydney D.T. was 24 hours be-
hind in hearing of the appointment of Mr.
Darley as Chief Justice. Vengeance is sweet,
especially to the Jennings-Dibbs combination, and
they evidently send little items like this to their
own supporters only. When they get a little
more frantic they will go “one better,” and
instead of withholding news will load up the D.T.
with things that never happened, and make that
paper fly round as the cheapest Munc hausen in
N.S.W.
Mr. Duncan (Lillies, the Victorian Premier,
has proved himself a master of sarcasm by his
recent letter to Sir Patrick Jennings. When he
observes? “ When all your fetes are over— when
your brilliant demonstrations in Sydney are
brought to a close ” wo begin to reflect that
the memorable -copper given as a tip by Duncan
may have been merely a refined sarcasm of the
same order as the words which we have italicised.
Duncan must have worn the historic smile when
he penned that parent,hesis.
This is from a New York daily comment-
ing on Lord Lonsdale :
that a dissolute ftllow who leaves a wife at home while
he tags around the country at the heels of a variety actress,
the wife of another man, should be rt sponsible for i lie ap-
pointment of 40 clergymen to as many parishes—that he
should select the spiritual advisers of some 60,000 souls is so
flagrant an absurdity that I can but wonder at a social
system that makes it possible, and the temper of a people
who can submit to it.” It is an outrage to decency which no
amount of tradition can justify.”
It will be a terrible day for English “ aristocracy ”
when the people learn the reality of these and
similar truths.
“ The Cheshire hounds lately ” (says a
home paper) “had a remarkable run of 5a miles
across country after a smart young fox. It was
noticed that the huntsmen never came across a
corn field in all that long distance.” This circum-
stance fully explains the fearful destitution exist-
ing in England. The country is laid waste as a
breeding-ground for game, or as pleasure grounds,
parks, and domains for the idle aristocracy, and
the poor people who ought to be cultivating the
fields are crammed and crushed into the cities
where millions of them are living on the verge of
starvation.
The N.S.W. Executive is an “ amoozin’
little cuss ” like Artemus Ward’s kangaroo, and
Mr. Dibbs is the most “ amoozin’ ” part of the
cuss. He has, it is announced by all the dailies,
called for a return of the age, calling, birthplace,
and religion of each of the Mount Rennie con-
victs, and from it we learn that they were all
born in Australia, and that out of the nine five
are Roman Catholics, three Presbyterians, and
one an Episcopolian. This is perhaps interesting,
but if a man is to be hanged it does not matter
much what his religion may be, and if he is to be
flogged his creed is equally a matter of indif-
ference.
Of Mr. Warbon, who has been appointed
Attorney-General of West Australia, the Pall
Mall Gazette writes :
“No one has accused Mr. Warton of hiding great abilities
under his uncouth exterior; as a politician he was known for
nothing except an ineradicable passion for impeding public
business for the flimsiest of alleged reasons and to such an
extent that it is almost surprising his fellow M.P.’s did not
lynch him in their disgust; and now that the House of Com-
mons is at last relieved of his presence, this man, who simply
dared not face his own constituents at Bridport, is thrust
down the throats of the people of Western Australia.”
Which goes to prove that England’s passion for
making a human rubbish-heap of Australia is not
yet exhausted.
Q here is a little fun now and then even in
that holy house of hog wash, the South Australian
Parliament. The Speaker of the lower Chamber
has a bald, shiny head that looks as if it had been
anointed, and one night towards the end of last
session a reporter “accidentally” dropped the
contents of a bottle of ink on top of the awful
official's reflective scalp. In the same place, some
four years ago, when a member moved “That
this House do adjourn until to-morrow,” an
inebriated journalist yelled from the gallery: “I
move that this gory House do adiourn for 50
blooming years.” This sort of thing amuses the
pious politicians of Adelaide.
The chairman of the Sydney Chamber of
Commerce wants to know “ what protection has
done for America,” and then proceeds to explain
that it has “ swept her ships from off the face of
the ocean.” This, strange to say, is precisely what
free-trade has done for New South Wales. The
A.S.N. Company, the only important steamship
owners in this colony, are now in course of being
swallowed up by a lascar-employing concern
called the Britiah-India Company. The whole
intercolonial steam-ship traffic will soon be en-
tirely in the hands of Melbourne owners, so far as
colonial owners will be in it at all. Poor M’Millan !
Why doesn’t he stick to rags, and leave “Free-
trade Association papers ” to writers above the
standard of ledger-keepers and packing-room
checkers ?
Somebody— it is supposed by Russian in-
stigation-has, it is cabled, been trying to embezzle
King Milan, of Servia, but unluckily he did not
succeed. Milan could well be spared, for he is
the ugliest, meanest, gnarled little image in
Europe, and during the last war he dressed him-
self up in bullet-proof armour, and wheezed with
abject terror in a bullock-dray ten miles in the
rear of his army. He came to the throne because
he was the grand-nephew of Milosh Obrenovitcb, a
grllant old party who used to drive pigs before he
became a King. Milosh, in fact, was promoting
agility in a swine when a deputation summoned
him tb take command of the patriot army in 1815,
and as he could not afford in the then state of the
civil list to lose the brute, he and the crowd of
nobles drove it before them at a fearful bat till
they reached the camp. The difference between
the brave old rebel and his descendant is that one
came from the pigs and the other is going to the
dogs.
If there is another man on earth who can
aim at a great economic truth and make a worse
shot than Cardinal Manning, we would like to
make his acquaintance. The Cardinal figures out
a scheme by which every unemployed workman,
every penniless loafer and drunkard, every dotard,
pauper, and imbecile in the United Kingdom can
be shipped off to Australia, and yet both Britain
and Austral ?, bfcorie the richer for the trans-
action. The passage-money of the horde is to
be paid in advance, and the loans for this purpose
are to be secured by mortgage on the “ lands
granted or sold to the emigrants by the colonial
governments.” His Eminence is apparently under
the impression that Australians are actually
howling for a chance to give away their public
estate to every drunken vagrant who comes along,
and that when an individual who is fit for nothing
but to bask in the sun and serve as a beer adver-
tisement, is exported, we will convert him into a
landowner at sight and be thankful for the
privilege.
“ In spite of the many sickly attempts made
by weak-minded philanthropists to persaude us to
the contrary, the only way to govern Australia,
for a few more decades, at any rate, is by a plenti-
ful application of the cat and halter.” This re-
mark is quoted from the leading article in Harris’
Weekly, a Newcastle (N.S.W.) journal about the
size of a dishonoured cheque, which caters for
small boys by publishing stories of the Buffalo
Bill description, and from a note at the foot we
discovered that the bloodthirsty yell for dead
bodies has been cadged from Society, a Sydney
publication. There is something refreshing about
this second-hand yelp for slaughter. From all
that has been said and written during the last few
weeks, it is plain that there are in Australia thou-
sands of people who love blood with a big B, and
who would rather see crime doubled by the gallows
than halved by its abolition. Such peoplo will
never be satisfied until every Government cat
consists of nine miles of wire attached to a handle
made out of a telegraph-post.
From Judge Windeyer’s letter anent the
recent legal “row ”, :
" He (Mr. Salomons) said : ‘At all events you will do what
you can to assist me. There is some work I am not familiar
with —sentencing prisoners, and such matters.' He ri ferred to
some book of mine which he thought would help him, and
asked me if I would lend it to him. I said ‘ Certainly.’ "
Mr. Salomons must have his little joke ; even
when discussing his new appointment he could
not help having a shot at the renowned criminal
judge. He was not familiar with the work of
sentencing prisoners, so would seek instruction
from eminent authority on the subject. Despite
Mr. Salomons’ denial of Mr. Windeyer’H state-
ments we are very much tempted to believe that
this portion of the interview is correctly reported.
The keen satirical wit is just what might have
been expected from the Q.C., and the solemn way
in which the sarcasm is reported as a matter of
fact is much akin to what has been previously
noticed of the Judge’s more obtuse intellect. But
we would like to see that “ book.” If Mr. Justice
Windeyer, who, it is plain, must be utterly desti-
tute of humour, takes from its pages either hia
sentences or judicial orations, the sooner that book
has a millstone round its neck and is cast into the
sea the better will it be for his reputation as a
criminal judge.
Here is something for the N.S.W. Minis-
ter of Public Instruction to chew over :—
“ Editor BuLLETm.-Sir,—Now that Government is re-
trenching, I wish to Buggest a scheme by which many thou-
sands could be saved annually in connection with the De-
partment of Public Instruction. It is this. The law compels
children to attend school not less than 70 days every half-
year from the time they are 61, years of age till they are 14.
But why admit them before they are 6§ ? They do not learn
very much, they take up a lot of time that would be spent by
the teacher to much greater advantage with the elder
pupils, they tend to destroy school discipline, and their
health is impaired by being shut up all day in comparatively
impure air. These are but a few of a multitude of reasons I
could give why the children, for their own good, should not
be admitted to the schools before the age stated. But to re-
turn to retrenchment. You are well aware that teachers
are paid in accordance with the attendance. The school I
have charge of is of the seventh class, but if the pupils belew
the age of 6J years were not counted it would be a very
poor eighth class. Therefore, by excluding or not count
ing the infants, a saving of £‘M a year would
be ejected in my school alone, and I am quite
confident an equal, and in some cases a greater, amount
would be saved in nearly every school in the colony. We
have only to turn our attention to the large schools in the
metropolis and other large townB, and we will see that by
causing the parents to keep their babies at home, scores of
teachers could be dispensed with. You may think it strange
of me, a teacher, advocating the dismissal of teachers, but it
is for the good of my Vateilandldo it. Another waste of
public money is the employment of truant officers. They
might be requisite in very populous places, but out in the
country they do more harm than gpod. I speak from ex-
perience. Why can’t the police do their work ? The teacher
could furnish a list of defaulters to the police officers just as
easily as to a school attendance officer. And the parents
would be a hundred-fold more frightened of the police,
besides which they would think it more of a disgrace to be
summoned by them, and they would take care to send their
children to school more regularly. In my opinion, if the
country teachers were consulted, nine-tenths of them would
be in favour of the abolition of the school attendance
branch.—Yours truly, A Cornstalk Teacher. ’
Edith O’Gorman Auffray gave £31 11s.,
proceeds of a lecture, to the Lismore hospital. It
is to be hoped that, in the eternal fitness of things
it wasn’t all absorbed by the victims of her riots.
It is reported that the A.S.N. Company
are about to sell out its boats to the B.I.S.N. Com*
pany for £200,000; that the German armyis to be in-
creased by 41,000 men ; that the Czar has gone
mad and shot one of his personal attendants dead ;
that Bulgaria is going to the dogs ; and that the
Ameer of Afghanistan has already gone there. A
snake-story and a gigantic pumpkin are unavoid-
ably held over.
Sour are the uses of adversity. He bad
been a trusted employe for years, but had been
“sacked” by his boss, and had finally come to
Abrahams and Co. for work. “ I have been in
the same situation for 15 years,” he proudly said.
“ Stopped until you weren’t any darned use,” ob-
served the head of the firm, and then that aspirant,
with his 15 years’ character, was trundled down
the stairs by the sub-pro-vice-deputy-assistant
office boy’s chucker.
The latest snake-perjury. At Cootamun-
dra, N.S.W., a large, lead-coloured reptile was
slain, and on being opened it proved to contain 19
young ones. Inside one of the latter was one still
younger, and probably this process might have
been repeated until 70 times seven—490 small
snakes—but unhappily the investigation was
dropped at this point. The story is vouched for
by the Liberal, and the same paper has sighted
some oats 7ft. 3in. high. Hallelujah!
A queer little yarn from the land ruled by
Samuel the Mysterious. A Clermont (Q.) journalist
dined with a haughty-looking stranger, and hap-
pened to mention the N.S W. Chief Justiceship.
Instantly the imposing man fired up and cursed
Salomons and all his family right back to the
original ancestor who cracked nuts while swing-
ing head downwards by his tail ; he also said the
eminent lawyer didn’t know enough to pound
sand, and that a decent man wouldn’t allow' him-
self to be found dead within ten miles of him. It
was not till next day that the journalist found he
had been talking to Wright, Heaton, and Co.’s
manager, and then he suddenly understood the
whole thing.
Murder, regarded as one of the fine arts,
is not properly understood by Frenchmen. In
Algeria, recently, two Arabs were to be executed
for murder, one of them being condemned on the
testimony of his wife, w’ho looked on at the exe-
cution. She saw more than she bargained for.
The guillotine broke down after cutting her hus
band a good deal about the neck, and while the
Arab kicked and howled, the executioner hung on
frantically to the machine and tried to get another
chop. Then he got a saw and started to grind the
criminal in two, but the latter individual was suf-
fering from the jumps or something and would
not keep still. At last, however, a razor was em-
ployed, and the Arab’s head w r as hacked off.


The above is a faithful likeness of the man who
says that rheumatism is an invention of the devil.
He is a gentleman and a scholar ; speaks several
nguages, and has got the biggest foot in Aus-
tralia.
lie is very wealthy and good-looking; has
enty of friends, but his clothes don’t fit him.
He has completely used up every profane word
in the Colonial and other languages, still he is not
happy.
He says there is enough thoroughbred agony
and hellish torture in his foot to kill every sinner
in creation.
He has been a Member of Parliament, a Minister
of the Crown, and an Alderman, but does not re-
member having done anything to deserve his
Bufferings.
He has always been devout; and at one period
of his life a government contractor.
He has tried all the doctors and nearly every-
thing under the sun, but the villain still pursues
him.
He tells everybody that trying to cure rheu-
matism is like trying to shovel wind off the roof.
Or trying to get a sinecure in the Civil Service
without friends in the House, or marrying into a
high-toned family.
He says that rheumatism cannot be cured. His
grandfather told him so. And he thinks that
settles it.
He is sadly mistaken. It is a fact that a remedy
has been found which relieves and cures rheu-
matism, lust as sure as the sun shines in the
heavens. It is used extern ally. It conquers pain.
It goes right to the spot. It cures when every-
thing else has failed. It penetrates to the seat of
the disease. It is simple. It is safe. It is cer-
tain.
Mr. James Marlow, merchant tailor, 11, Flinders-
street East, Melbourne, was under medical treat-
ment for rheumatism for months at a time, and
suffered severely both in health and pseket. He
tried all sorts of remedies without obtaining relief,
until he got St Jacobs oil, when “ the first appli-
cation gave me instant relief, and I am thankful
to say that I have not experienced the slightest
symptom of pain ever since.
Edward Evans, formerly with Davey'and Moore,
London, was declared incurable at three hospitals.
He was nearly crazy from rheumatism. The
doctors said he must die. St. Jacobs Oil cured
him. He says: “It saved my life.” William
Beach, champion oarsman of the world, writes :
“ I gladly endorse St. Jacobs Oil. It conquers
pain.”
Maurice D. Benjamin, Esq., importer and whole-
sale merchant, late of Brisbane, Queensland,
writes“ I had my doubts at first of St. Jacobs
Oil eradicating rheumatism ; but as I have practi-
cally tested its efficacy, I can honestly state that
it has wonderful rheumatic healing qualities.”
Henry Ricketts, Westbury, Gloucestershire, was
pronounced incurable at Bath Hospital. His pains
were terrible. St. Jacobs Oil cured him. After
practical tests on invalids in hospitals and else-
where, St. Jacobs Oil was awarded six gold medals
in America, Australia, and India. It has cured
people who had been crippled from pain for over
BO years.
William Gitechink, a stoker, belonging to
11.1.M.5. Albatross, was compelled to remain in
Auckland when the Albatross sailed for Samoa,
on acoount of his dreadful sufferings from rheu-
matism. He says : —‘' I have now perfectly re-
covered, and it is entirely owing to the free appli-
cation of your wonderful remedy St. Jaoob3 Oil.
A CASH reward of £lOO will be paid by the
CHARLES A. YOGLER COMPANY, of BALTI-
MORE, MARYLAND, UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA, proprietors of St. Jacobs Oil, or by
their accredited local representatives, to any per-
son producing proof to the effect that the testi-
monials published by them in regard to St. Jacobs
Oil are not strictly genuine.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers every-
where.
Price, HALF-A-CROWN.
Wholesale Depot for New South Wales
ELLIOTT BROS, and CO., Limited,
SYDNEY.
A CIVIL SERVICE ELYSIUM.
DE JONFS (of the Lands): “I’VE JUST BEEN BEADING, DEAH BOY, ABOUT A
WONDERFUL INVENTION, A NEW WAR VESSEL THAT STEAMS NINE FEET
UNDER WATER AND ISN’T VISIBLE ON THE SURFACE.”
DE JUGGINS: “BAI JAWVE, OLD FELLAH, HOW JOLLY IT WOULD BE TO HAVE A
BILLET ON HER AND GET STUCK ON A ROCK UNDER WATER FOR SIX
MONTHS AND DRAW YOUR SCREW ALL THE TIME, AND THEN GET A
YEAR’S LEAVE ON FULL PAY!”
BREAKING 1} P.
On every hand we see evidences that winter is breaking up,
and willsoon have to yield to the advancing spiing. It is a
most important question to scientific men wnd c-mses the
general feeling of debility and lassitude so prevalent in this
region. While some regard it as the result of confinement
and inaction, others suppose it t.) be caused by the decay of
vegetable and animal debris which has accumulated during
the winter. What is especially needed at this time, however,
is something to overcome these influences, it is too late to
talk about the causes ; what is theeure? thousand of persons
all over the country who have givtn Dr. Bell's Bitters a
faithful trial an ready to testify that no other remedy is
equal to it for cleansiug the system, purifying the blood,
regulating tire bowels, and curing all kidney and liver
diseases. It is, in fact, the king of all medicines.
Cockroaches. Hugs, and all other insects
destroyed by Mitchell’s Insect powder. 6d., Is.,
Is. 6d. Itigney, 141 King-street.
Sheep-Farming in N.S.W.—Wool, which is the
staple production of the country, is according to
the latest statistics, being sent away in larger
quantities than ever, showing that sheop-farming
has considerable attractions. B ormcrly the pur-
suit was attended with a certain amount of risk,
and the great distance from the station that a
doctor could be found necessarily increased the
danger whon illness occured. The introduction of
Freeman’s Original Chlorodyne has dispelled this
alarm, as the slicep-fannors know this invaluable
remedy to be a compendious medicine chest in
itself, and a specific for all the diseases incidental
to their following. Insist upon having “Free-
man’s ” only. Trade mark, an elephant.—obtain-
able from aU chemists and storekeepers.
While Park os with Jennings, Uibbs wi'h Olarke,
And Smith with Lyne disputes,
All men agree that Summerfield
Makes splendid masher suits.
GLADSTONE.
Since the resignation of the Ministry we have it
on the strictest confidence that the above-named
statesman nightly retires to his study and drinks
two large bottles of that famous St. Louis Lager
Boer, by way of solace to his anguished mind and
lacerated ambition. This famous beverage was
the only American nectar that suited the palate
of the G.O.M. at the recent banquet given by him.
He has strongly recommended it to her Majesty.
Two millions short! That is the state
To which o’r funds are brought,
But SummerfieU’s bright summer suits
Are never cut too short.
Premier ball-room decorators of New South Wales. Sale
and Dare, decorators. Ball and banquet roams tastefully
decorated with flag and floral deoorations, 60J Hunter-street
Sydney.*
Certainly one of the most successful City Hotels, in respect
of first-class Wines, Spirits, &c., and with regard to Lun-
cheon, is Hanney’s Great Northern Hotel, Charlotte-place.
A first-class Luncheon is provided from 12 to 3, which is
patronised by the commercial men in this part of the city.
Just make one oall, and we are sure you will be satisfied.*
Wine !—Reliable Old Australian Wines, selected vintages,
for invalids, families, and connoisseurs. Only Sold by
Hockings, 143 Pitt-street.
A southern paper asks—“ Whom shall girls
marry?” Well, there are the young men who
languidly louDge around watering-place hotels,
wearing a singlo-barrelled eye-glass, and a pleni-
tude of shirt collar. Don’t, for goodness sake, let
the girls marry aDy of them. They had better re-
main siDgle until they can find a man who always
looks the pink of perfection in his splendid fitting
suit made to measure for £3. 3s. by Summerfiold
and Company, Merchant Tailors, 23a and 237,
Pitb-streefc, Sydney.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TiVIDORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF SPRING GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prices.
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS.
WHAT TO GIVE ! THERE S THE RUB.
THE VERY THING.
An Autophone costs but 30s. and is a joy for ever.
m
f 4
The Autophone is a wonderful little instrument
which, while it weighs less than three pounds has
the lungs of a full sized parlor organ, and executes
its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect. It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three
keys, and all the pai ts of most difficult music. On
it a child can correctly play, without instruction,
any of its music, which at present consists of ever
300 selections from hymns, oratorios, operas,
waltzes, polkas, marches, popular songs, &c. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, but also has wonderful power in exe-
cuting very lively pieces, SSf It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card holder for convenience
in singing. It is entirely well adapted for country
churches, Sunday schools, the family circle, and
also for dancing. The music is compact, and far
cheaper than that which is made for any organette.
The Autophone is like every other good thing, the
longer you havo it the better you like it, and as
new music is being published every week it has an
endless fund of amusement in it.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Three tunes given in with each instrument.
Additional tunes per last mail. Send for Cata-
logue. Extra music sent on receipt of price.
Sole Agents for Australia and Now Zealand :
ORIENTAL GOLD CO., No. 12 POMEROY
CHAMBERS, CASTLEREAGH-ST., SYDNEY.
OR A WATCH.
The Elgin National Watch Co.’s Watches are
the best in the world. Read this :
“ Elgin National Watch Co., Chicago,
“ Gentlemen, —It gives me pleasure to state
that the performance of the Watch manufactured
by you, and marked ‘B. W. Raymond No. 19,201,’
which I have carried in my pocket for a period of
six months, surpasses in excellence that of any of
the fine watches I have hitherto tested. It main-
tains its rate eTen better than a fine box chrono-
meter by Negus, belonging to this observatory.
I have intended, when I shall have leisure, to
make a complete test of the isochronism of the
balance for poise and temperature. So far as I
can judge by the performance of the watch, those
adjustments appear to be nearly perfect,
“ Permit me to congratulate you upon the
successful manufacture of watches which are
equal in performance to the pocket chronometers
by Jurgensen, Fordsham, and other celebrated
European makers.
“JAMES C. WATSON,
“Astronomer.
“ Observatory, Ann Arber.
January 28, 1870.”
Remember each and evory watch manufactured
by The Elgin Watch Company is a Patent Lever
with compensating-balance. No horizontal or other
inferior movements.
If three pounds is more than you can afford we
meet you by reducing the price of the case. We
can’t and won’t sell you a debased movement.
The Elgin Company does not make such things.
Not if. The Elgin Watch Company states. Ora
silver is a now white metal, manufactured and
controlled by ourselves exclusively. Theso cases
are to all appearance and in wearing qualities the
equal of silver.
Elgin National Watch Co.’s Keywinding
Patent Lever, in solid silver patent
dust-band eaie, with compensating
balance, patent pinion, 7 fine jewels,
open face
Same Watch in hunting case
Stem-winding (Keyless) Elgin N. W.
Co.’s compensating-balance, patent-
lever, open crystal face, in solid
silver dust-band case, with 11 fino
ruby j ewela, p' tent pinion, &c. ...
Same Watch, in hunting-case
Ladies superb gold lever watch mag-
nificently engraved hunting case ex-
quisite jewelled movement. No better
in the world
We have not space here for further detailed
quotations. We can, however, offer silver-cased
watches at ascending prices up to the finest in the
world at £4O 0 0
OR FOR A FEW SHILLINGS
ORIENTAL GOLD JEWELLERY.
£3 0
£3 10
£3 5
3 Id
£lO 0 0
ORIENTAL
Is the latest triumph of
Science. It Is a nohlo
GOLD
alloy, possessing tbe enact lustre, beauty
and endurance of sterling Gold. A logl-
tiraate use has been found for this noble metal, by
working it into Jewellery of the most exquisite de-
sips. Tlie Oriental: Gold Co.,
12 POMEROY CHAMBERS
OASTLEREAGH-ST., Sydney, has
largo consignments of those lovely goods, which they
sell at a fraction of the cost of Sterling Sold Jewellery.
No one can detect the difference. Send for a
Priced Catalogue, or for one of the fol-
lowing samples, all of Oriental Sold—
Jgrooches,ss.; Jewelled (Parisian
BrlHiantc) Brooch, 7s. 6d.; Gent’s
Albert, Vs. 6d.; Pair Earrings*
Plain 55., Jewelled,7s. 6d.; Locket
55.,-Jewelled, lOs.; Ladies’ Alberts
15s. JP.0.0. payable Oriental Q,old
Co.
grgi°We send these on approval. If they don’t
' please, return unlnjnred by the First
Mail, and we repay the cash, less postage.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD GO.
12 POMEROY CHAMBERS,
CASTLEREAGH STREET.
Parcels sent anywhere by post.


Populaire.’
OnTuesdaythe 7th inst.,atSydney Govern-
ment House, the new Australian comic opera
“ Populaire ” was performed in the presence of
the most artistic and fashionable audience that
could be gathered in Sydney. The plot of the
play borders on extreme simplicity, in fact there
is so little plot that, after two hours and a. half of
the closest attention, we were unable to discover
the general drift of the proceedings. The idea
that pervades the piece is the desire to satirize the
triumph and standing of muscle over brains.
We are not sure but that the muscles
win every time. The circumstances surrounding
this first production were all in its favour. There
was no upper gallery and spare store eggs to in-
terrupt the show, so the authors and actors had
things all their own way. H.E. and Lady Car-
ington had most kindly fitted up their ball-room
with a miniature stage that was very admiral 1 > in
its completeness. All that the hosts could do was
performed. When we have said that we have
said much. The audience might reasonably bo
supposed to be in the best of spirits, still the
sad fact remains that they never v ere once
moved to an approach to enthusiasm,for not in one
scene, nor in one song, did the guests forget their
weariness of spirit. The music, we have most
reluctantly to confess, never rose above the level
of ordinary composition, and had it not been for
somo half-dozen energetic and admirable book-
makers, nothing would have saved the piece from
utter prostration. A ballad sung by Clara (Miss
E. A. Foxall), in the third act, was perhaps the
most favourably received. But as it had pre-
viously boon published by Glen and Co.,
Melbourne, it was not exactly a novelty.
“ Populaire ” is formed a “ comic” opera, but be-
yond the genoral idea of satirising an athlete,
thoro is nothing humorous in the words, and the
situations are positively sepulchral in their
sombreness. Humour seems to have been studi-
ously omitted from the words, and was not
admitted on the stage for one moment. As one
of our fellow-sufferers—a man who is very much
before the public just now —remarked : “ Every-
thing should be left out except the intervals.” Of
the performers we have only to say that they had
a superhuman task to perform, and they carried!
t through very creditably. Mr. Hallewell was in
fine voice, and though not quite anyone’s idea of
an athlete, managed to support his part to e /cry-
one’s satisfaction. The Muriel of Miss Josephine
Deakin, and the Clara of Miss Foxall, were careful
studies, bar the words in the first-named lady’s
rendition. She went in for words of her own
and we did not blame her much. Mr. Monie as
Long Odds, and his associated bookmakers, carried
off the belt. Without them nothing could have
kept the audience in their seats. The scenery was
neat and appropriate, the steamers and wager-
boats being admirable and also of the same size.
We trust that in any future efforts the composer
and his author will be more successful.
With the consummation of the bargain
between the Queensland Shipping Co. and the
A.S.N. Co. for the purchase of the latter’s fleet,
‘'Sydney, the capital of a continent, one of the
great ports of the world, will no longer be the
headquarters of an intercolonial shipping com-
pany. Queensland, Victorian, South Australian,
and New Zealand boats will enter Port Jackson.”
This is from the Sydney D.T., and is, we presume,
intended as an argumont in favour of the N.S.W
Freetrado policy.
INCIPIENT BRIGHT’S DISEASE.
Islington, Newcastle, N.S.W., April 28,
1886. —After being brought very low with liver
and kidney disease, and after being under medical
treatment six months without recovery, I resolved
to give Warner’s safe cure a trial, and did so. At
the time I began its use I suffered greatly from
sharp cutting pains across my back, and around
my side, loss of memory, sickness at the stomach,
appotite capricious, urine filled with albumen,
etc I did not derive perceptible good from the
medicine until I had taken four bottles, after
which time my recovery was rapid and complete.
I took in all about 50 bottles.—THOMAS NOLAN.
NOT A FAILURE
BeNALLA, Victoria, June 4, 1886. —Having been
troubled with Kidney and Liver diseases, caused
through the change of residence, necessitated by
my professional life, more or less dnring tho last
five years. I was about six months since induced
to try Warner’s safe cure. After taking one bottle
with the safe pills thought I was cured ; however,
after a week, perceiving symptoms of relapse, I
again had recourse to the safe cure, and am now
in sound health. I have recommended Warner’s
safe cure to my friends suffering from similar
diseases, and am not aware of any case in which
it was fully and fairly tried it failed to give relief.
—FRED ISITT.
CONFIDENCE
Dalby, Q., August 10, 1886.—For the past 15
years I have been afflicted with inflammation of
the kidneys, often been laid up six weeks at a
time. All tho doctors and their medicine did not
do me as much good a 9 five bottles of Warner s
safe cure. I have every confidence in it. —Mrs.
JAS. CLARKE.
Important Business Change in
Sydney.
The people of Sydney have been awakened
daring the last lew days by the announcement of
an important business change, and this change is
in such harmony with common sense and the re-
quirements of the people that it must eventually
revolutionise this branch of trade. Messrs. A.
Finlayson and Company, the importers and manu-
facturers of the celebrated Standard brand of
clothing have followed the lead of some of the
great London merchants, and turned their ware-
house into a huge retail house of trade and retail
tailoring establishment. What is really meant is
this : This wealthy firm of merchants and manu-
facturers, while still carrying on their large im-
porting business, have resolved to deal direct
with the people. We know, of course, that
Messrs. Finlayson and Co. import and manufac-
ture clothing for retail houses in the city
and the country, and these retailers do
a great trade on the profit of 83 per
cent, or more which they get from tho people.
This firm, however, say they will deal with the
people themselves, and vastly increase their
bonuses by giving them this 83 per cent. Tills
thing must simply revolutionise tho clothing trade
of Sydney, and Mossis. Finlayson and Co. deserve
great credit for initiating the thing in Australia.
What has been stated refors to the ready-made
clothing, but the firm go further. Being whole-
sale manufacturers, they take up the tailoring as
was never previously attempted in this country.
A person may now go to this large warehouse,
York and Barrack streots, and, a.ftek selecting a
piece of tweed 38 per cent, less in fn-lce than
retail,can have his suit made to measure at manu-
facturers’ figures. Really this arrangement
means a come down in fashionable suits
to measuro of from £5 down to about
£2 15s. or £3 10s. People needn’t buy
their own material; they can bring it,
and the making-up and finishing will be found
to be at wholesale rates. For householders,
heads of families, artizans, clerks, anybody, in
faet, this new business of Messrs. Finlayson and
Co,’s must be a boon. The thing is an enormous
success in London. Nearly all the big houses now
do it. Why shouldn’t the innovation he a big hit
in Australia as well. The prices os quoted by
Messrs. Finlayson are simply extraordinary, and
w-ill show how people pay through the nose for
goods bought in the old retail stylo. Tho premisos
of the firm are worth inspection as showing great
preparedness for the work. There are various
xpansive well ventilated departments, for the
mlk stock, packing, show, and business rooms,
eady-made and order-cutting branches, coat de-
■artments, each showing great activity and vast
uitput. It’s needless to say that the new idea has
dready proved a big success,and Messrs. Finlayson
leserve every success for their pluck and enter-
rise. It may be noted *diat the firm have a city
ouse and show-rooms in King-street, next the
>aily Telegrapii, where samples and stylos may
e seen and orders left. r l his King-street shop is
vithout exception the handsomest and with re-
pect to material one of the best shop of the kind
n all Australia. *
Mr. John Osborne, who has started on
he Sydney Sunday lecture platform, last Sunday
night, at the New Masonic Hall, delivered the
first of his series on “ The Passing Away of
Theology.” There was an excellent attendance.
Two hundred and fifty tons of wire,-the
quantity required in the erection of a rabbit-proof
dividing fence across 180 miles of the Queensland
and JsT.S.W. border, has just been landed at Wil-
cannia. But, as a mat ter of fact, the rabbits are
already over the boundary-line !
Two Hobart solicitors appeared in court
the other day to explain why they had not
accounted for certain trust moneys, but as it
appeared they had paid up on proceedings being
taken against thorn, they got off with a repri-
mand. As there is not in these colonies one law
for the rich and another for the poor, wo would
suggest that every thief who finds ho is going to
bo proceeded against should square up promptly
and get off in like manner.
Though the white man may not
Fly him bow-wow in him pan
Alice samee Chineeman,
there i 3 a striking resemblance between the two
when they are led up to the triangles. At Bris-
bane, a day or two ago, a German named Leisner
had the honour of being flogged just before War
Yeh —even here the white man leads the way and
the degraded Mongol brings up the rear—and at
every cut of the lash he yelled “ Oh, Gcd !” Then
the Asiatic was tied up and the official started to
tear the skin off the wrotch's yellow hido, and ho
screeched also, lust like a European. But the
audience could not translate his howl, so the
sapient reporter put it down as “evidently a
Chinese oath.” There are 36 gods in tho Mongol
Pantheon, and probably War Yeh was calling on
them all at once, but vulgar prejudice kept the
little cholera-coloured man from getting the bene-
fit of the doubt even while being flayed alive.
A man broke out of the gaol at Tuinber-
umba eight years ago and was only caught the
other day. He was arrested not for escaping but
for carrying the gaol away with him and selling
it for firewood. He would have been still at large
if he had not unwisely written a letter to the
Albury paper refusing to be nominated as a Town
Councillor.
They were shearers in want of work, but
they wouldn't sign an agreement for 17s. Gd., and
rode away in much wrath, for the jumbuck-king
was full of anger and sarcasm. And after much
riding they came to another station whose owner
listened to their tale with much interest, but he
wanted not shearers. Nevertheless he treated
them with much kindness, and hiring the services
of a photographer he procured likenesses of them
in groups. And this did rejoice their vanity, but
as they journeyed down that river they got no
work, for the wool masters did watch for their
coming and treat them scornfully.
HKATRK ROYAL.
SIGNOR and SIGNORA MAJERONI
SIGNOR and SIGNORA MAJERONI
SIGNOR and SIGNORA MAJERONI.
TO-NIGHT AND TO-MORROW NIGHT.
Grand production of Schillers groat historical
play,
MARY STUART MARY STUART
MARY STUART MARY STUART
MARY STUART MARY STUART,
QUEEN OF SCOTS,
when
SIGNORA MAJERONI
will appear in her great impersonation of the
heautiful Queen of Scotland.
Prices as usual.
Saturday Next, December 11.
ONLY DUST.
JOE. BROWN, Manager.
N
N
Dr . l y
the famous
HUMOURIST and MAGICIAN,
of the
CRYSTAL PALACE and EGYPTIAN HALL,
appears
EVERY EVENING
in the
ACADEMY OF MUSIC.
FREQUENT CHANGE OF PROGRAMME.
Always concluding with
The Startling Illusion, •
THE VANISHING LADY!
which staggers everybody.
’ .'Usual prices. Plan of seats at Nicholson’s.
R. S. SMYTIIE, Manager.
Academy of music.
R Lessee ... ... .... Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. 11. Rickards.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock,
THE RICKARDS-LEETE COMPANY,
Mr. Harry Rickards and his powerful company of
London Speciality Artists.
Academy of Music,. Sydney, To Let at the con-
clusion of Mr. Rickard’s Season.
Academy of Music, Launceston, To Let from
Monday, January IG, for two weeks.
Treas. Mr. Sydney Hall. Gen. Man. Mr. P. Stuart
TRASBURG CLOCK.
APOLLO HALL,
Kidman’s-buildings, Market-street.
Commencing SATURDAY, December 4.
THE ONLY PERFECT MODEL of the
GREAT ASTRONOMICAL, MECHANICAL and
APOSTOLIC CLOCK OF STRASBURG
ever constructed.
Grand PROCESSION OF THE APOSTLES
every 15 minutes.
THE DENIAL OF PETER.
THE STEALTHY VISIT OF SATAN.
The Model is 12 feet high and 6 feet wide, being
one-fifth the size of the original, forming the most
marvellous and interesting Exhibition ever pre-
sented to the public of Sydney.
Admission Is. children fid.
C. JAMESON, Proprietor.
WM. GIFFETT, Agent.
V
Fire-proof Briars. Repairs, &c
A GUARANTEE with
each pipe for real
Meerschaum and Amber.
S. ROSENTHAL, Pipemaker,
1 LITTLE COLLINS STREET EAST, Melbourne,
Illustrated Catalogues on application.
AI HAMBRA MUSIC HALL
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp,
THE GREATEST SUCCESS OF THE DAY.
Deafening Applause meets our
Great Australian Comique,
Mr. W. B. WARNER.
Also, the American Dancers and Song and Dance
Artists,
The RILEY BROTHERS,
Songs of Minstrelsy and Mirth
EVERY EVENING.
Popular Prices: Orchestra Chairs, 25.; Stalls
Is. ; Balcony, 6d.
Grand Concert Spirituel Every Sunday Evening
at 7.30.
Lynch family bellringers,
(Organised, 1867.)
Manager Mr. Harry Lynch.
COUNTRY TOUR.
Stroud, Frid., Dec. 10 ; Bulla Delah, Dec. 11,
Copeland, Mon., Doc. 13 : Paree, Dec. 15 and 16.
Wingham, Dec. 17 and 18 ; Candle ton, Dec. 20.
Croke, Dec. 21 ; Coopernook, Dec. 22.
Lauriston, Macquarie, Kompsey, to follow.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, December 7, 1886.
Tenders for public works and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the lowing PL BLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars sea
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten-
ders are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at th is office.
Construction of Wharf at head
of Blackwattle Bay
Making new Cutting and Widen-
ing a portion of Yanko Creek
Supply and Delivery of Billet
Wood, Great Northern Lines,
during 1887
Lease of Right to advertise in
North Shore Tramways, 3
years, Ist Jauuary, 1887
Ditto ditto ditto, Sydney, ditto
ditto ditto
Alteration, &c., Telegraph De-
partment, General Post Office
Supply and Fitting in Compound
Engine and Boiler, Steamer
“ Aiax.”
Bridge, Muttama Creek, at
Muttama Railway Station
Supply of Axle Boxes—Railway
Department
Supply of Drain Pipes, Roads
Department, Southern Dis-
trict, during 1887.
Tuesdayr
December 14-fl-
at 11 o'olock,.
Erection of Court House and
Wardens’ Quarters, Silverton
Laying and Jointing about Five
Miles Piping—Sydney Water
Supply
Erection of New Court House,
Hay
Construction of Passenger Sta-
tion, Cootamundra
Refrigerating Appliances and
Alterations, Meat Market,
Darling Harbour
Lease of Spit Ferry, Middle
Harbor, for 1887
Tuesday,
December 21,.
at 11 o’clock..
Erection of Barracks, Naval
Station, Garden Island
No. 2 Contract : Bridge, Snowy
River, at Buckley’s Crossing
Post and Telegraph Office, Wee
Waa
Additions Post and Telegraph
Office, Mudgee
Construction of Earth Closets,
&c.. Railway Works, Eveleigh
Manufacture in Colony of 3 Lo-
comotive Boilers for G.S. &
W. Railways
Supply of Steel-wire Rope, North
Shore Cable Tramway
Tuesday,
December 28V
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
January i,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
January 11,
at 11 o’clock.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS
AMERICAN BUGGIES,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
umwzum
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY
SPECIALLY IMPORTED FOR CITY OR COUNTRY USE,
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM
STERLING QUALITY,
AT
Lowest Prices.
mm
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
EVERY VEHICLE GUARANTEEDr


THE AUSTRALIAN LOAN, DISCOUNT,
AND FINANCIAL COMPANY (Limited).
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO sterling.
RESERVE, £23,200 sterling.
SYDNEY
BANKING PREMISES.
Head Office:
CORNER YORK and MARKET STREETS.
Current accounts opened, drafts and bills negoti-
ated, and all kinds of usual banking business
transacted
DEPOSITS RECEIVED,
and interest allowed.
At Call, 5 Per Cent.
3 Months, Per Cent.
6 Months, 8 Per Cent.
12 Months, 8 g Per Cent.
Current Accounts: Interest allowed on daily
balance to credit. By Order of the Directors.
THE MERCANTILE BASK OF SYDNEY
(ESTABLISHED 1809).
Paid-up Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund, £155,000
Directors
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C.
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches : Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Gosford, Nyn-
gan, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonard’s, Newcastle
and Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
London Bankers: The National Provincial Bank oi
England.
M
(late of the Detective Force),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
42 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
CMifidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
divorce, libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
Kents and debts collected. From R. M. R.’s long experience
in the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
New Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
globe, he is in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
exp.=aiti..n and strictest secresy, and to faithfully and
prc aapt .y attend to all business entrusted to h care.
Flour! Flour! Flour!
LION FLOURMILLS,
KENT ST., SYDNEY.
Town Whites, Fine Seconds Flour,
Wheat Meal, Cones, Bran and Pol-
lard, always on hand. All made
from the very best wheat procurable,
and at the lowest prices.
HjIHE CLIMAX OF PERFECTION
MONTSERRAT
LIME FRUIT JUICE SAUCE.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
MEDICIITE
T. JONES & CO.,
PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMISTS
[By Examination, London).
Medicine, Perfumery, Toilet Articles, and
Druggists’ Sundries of the best quality
supplied at the lowest prices.
53 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY ;
CROWN STREET TRAM TERMINUS, SURREY
HILLS; and SUVA, FIJI.
Prescriptions Accurately Dispensed.
GENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES REPAIRED AND
CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET
Near Market-street.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic-
Doloreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary! In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
'I his Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
i,s agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
fl. A. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
631 George-stree t only.
mO WINEGROWERS AND OTHERS.
X G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE CASKS, 250 to 400 gallons ;
also,
Rum, Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS.
Hogsheads, Quarter-casks, Spirit Kegs, from 2
gallons and upwards.
COOPERAGE.
87 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market streets,
The royal polytechnic
OPEN DAILY
from 10 a.m. till 5 p.m., and from 7 till 10 p.m.
190 George-street opposite the markets.
A POPULAR PLACE OF AMUSEMENT.
A SCIENTIFIC AND MECHANICAL EXHI-
BITION.
Steam and Electro-magnetic Machines in motion, The
Fairy Grotto, Graphoscopes, Stereoscopes, Praxiniscopes, the
Pranista (the most wonderful Automatic Pianoforte player
in the world). V iews in all Countries, the Pastime Tables,
Children’s Corner for Games and Puzzles, Mechanical Figures,
the Peacock’s Parade, the Firemen Rescuing Life, the Bear
Pit, the engrarer at Work etching on glass, Curios, Fountains.
Refreshments of the most recherche kind, under the able
superintendence of Mr. Harrington of the Royal Con-
fectionery Co.
ADMISSION, ONE SHILLING; CHILDREN SIXPENCE.
QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS, N. AND C.
DIVISION,
Cairns and Herberton Railway—Section 2.
TENDERS are invited for the Construction of
the Second Section of the Cairns and Herber-
ton Railway—in length fifteen miles twenty chains
—in accordance with Plans, Sections, Drawings,
General Conditions, and Specifications, which may
be seen at the Offices of the Chief Engineer,
Cairns and Townsville, and at the Office of the
Commissioner for Railways, Crisbane, on and
after MONDAY, the 15th day of November,
1886, where also forms of Tender and other infor-
mation can be obtained.
Tenders, endorred “ Tender for Construction of
Seeond Section of Cairns and Herberton Rail-
way” must be deposited at the Office of the Com-
missioner for Railways, not later than Four o’clock
p.m. on FRIDAY, the 11 day of January, 1887.
The lowest or any Tender will not necessarily
be accepted.
WM. MILES,
Secretary for Public Works.
Railway Department,
Brisbane, Bth October, 1886.
Under tlic Patronage of Ills Excellency,
lord Carrington.
JOHI lOAKE,
TOBACCONIST,
HAS just landed 200 dozen well-assorted
STICKS from the principal manufactory in
Paris, and offers them to his patrons and the
general public at prices suitable to all.
GOLD, SILVER, and NICKEL MOUNTED,
in great variety, and even the most fastidious
cannot fail to be suited.
!'l i ivi
Establishments : 1
446 & 320 GEORGE STREET,
AND
PALL IVEAAILL,
33 Hunter-street, Sydney.
BEDDING I BEDDING! BEDDING I
The same old saying—You Can’t Beat Lawler g.
THERE YOU CAN GET a Hair Mattress, and
no better BOX SPRING MATTRESS was
ever made than those made by LAWLER.
It is literally a mass of spiral springs, heavily
webbed, and thoroughly upholstered in best curled
hair.
Note.— No wire mattress ever made affords
such refreshing rest or can be depended upon as
can the Box Spring Mattress turned out at
608 GEORGE STREE'
KAPOK, soft as Eider Down, at “LAWLER S.”
None but the celebrated “ Samarang’’-grown
Java Kapox stocked.
No second quality of Kapox at “ Lawler’s.”
Flock and Fibre Mattresses, ready for daily
delivery, at Lawler’s.
Wire Mattresses, all sizes, by all makers.
Palliasses, from best long-cut straw —three
qualities.
Purchasers will save money, and, in the end,
worry, by buying at
LAWLER’S 608 George-street, Sydney.
Thousands of people have tried
AND PROVED THAT
FATHER WOLFREY’S WORM POWDERS
are the best every way for children and adults.
Prepared only oy the undersigned. Price, 6d.
each; by post 7d. When ordering please state
age of patient.
EAMES’
HOREHOUND
AND
COLTSFOOT
SYRUP.
ri
The beat medi
cine for reliev-
ing eoughs,
colds, hoarse-
ness. &c. It has
a great sale in
Sydney. Price,
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d
per bottle.
EAMES’ ANTIBILIOUS PILLS.
Send for list of testimonials. Price, Is., Is. 6d.
and 2s. per box. By post 2d. extra.
The above may be procured through any chemist
or storekeeper, or direct from
W. D. EAMES, CHEMIST,
Apothecaries’ Hall,
14, OXFORD-STEEET, SYDNEY.
RUSTON PROCTOR & CO.’S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
“ TRIUMPH ” THRASHING MACHINES.
Simon’s Roller System of Flour Milling.
Sole Agents:
E. C. ELLIOTT & CO.,
647 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
E V SHOULD Y USE } PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
PLOUE!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
831 Geobqk stbebt, SydnkFi
DR, BELL’S
(KIDNEY AND LIVER)
B I T T E R S.
NEVER KNOWN TO FAIL.
CURES ALL DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS,
LIVER, BLADDER,
AND URINARY ORGANS, DROPSY,
GRAVEL, DIABETES, BRIGHT’S DISEASE,
PAINS IN THE BACK,
LOINS, OR SIDE, NERVOUS DISEASE,
RETENTION OR NON-RETENTION OF URINE.
By the use of this REMEDY the stomach and
bowels speedily regain their strength, and the Blood
is purified.
It is pronounced by hundreds of the best doctors to
be the ONLY CURE for all kinds of Kidney and Liver
Diseases.
It is purely vegetable, and cures when other medi.
cines fail.
It is prepared expressly for these diseases, and has
never been known to fail. One trial will convince
you of its value.
AFTER DINNER
Persons who suffer from Indigestion can arrest the
progress of that painful malady by the use of Dr.
Bell’s fitters, so composed that it will give tone to
the stomach, prevent heartburn, rouse the liver to
healthful action, invigorate the kidneys, and thus,
through the activity of these organs, promote the
natural movement of the stomach and bowels. Dr.
Bell s Bitters are so compounded that their action,
though mild, effectually produces the above results.
. a ' so > ' ll curing Constipation, remove the cause
of Biliousness, Liver Complaint, Kidney Diseases,
Rheumatism, and many other serious ailments.
Notb.—Any poor Person, or the manager of any
Hospital, Asylum or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
BELL’S BITTERS
Manufacturing Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND, & AUSTRALIA.
Butcher, Fehon 8c Co., Sydney,
AGENTS FOR
New South Wales & Queensland,
The New Furniture and Carpet
Warehouse
Jones, Lawson Bros, & Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
AT
.ESS THAN ENGLISH PRICES.
EIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
with three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
DINING ROOMS,
At the Exceedingly Low Price of £3 IBs.
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER SUITES,
At Correspondingly Low Prices.
FURNITURE for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY,
THE DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING-ROOM.
BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEADS,
in great variety.
Jones, Lawson Bros., and Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
T&*
£
manufacturer?
& IMPORTERS OF
HATS CAPS it
438 CEORCE'ST
3YDNEY^?
0/y>o3ite jLa^settirsy
(.4
E 1 El nsr IST E L L’T ’ S
HORSE & CATTLE BAZAAR
206 PITT STREET, and 149 CASTLEREAGH
STREET.
Branch Establishment: 68 Hunter Street.
W. GAELING
(PROPRIETOR),
Auctioneer & General Live Stock Agent
THE Liverv birsiness is the largest in Sydney,
and the Sale Yard the only one where gene-
ral sales are held of racing stock. High-class
horses disposed of privately and by auction. Busi-
ness connections with the principal stud and
breed owners in the colony. Correspondence
relative to state of market, and all matters re-
garding horses and cattle, personally attended to.
Best facilities for landing and shipping stock.
Insurance (including marine risk) effected on live
stock, rates for which can be obtained on applica-
tion.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
fgd
fg
dfg
dfg
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENW A RE
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
» q ORIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
». T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A, MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale,
FOLEY’S SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of tho
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day In Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &o. ‘For
terms, &c., apply to
L. FOLEY,
Manager and Instructor.
fJIHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES;
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE-STREET,
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve fund 675,000
The Bank has Agents in aH the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour*
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.
HIGH-CLASS PHOTOGRAPHY.
Messrs. CHa¥TmONT & Co.
BSG to thank their numerous clients for the
liberal patronage shown to them.
Their PHOTOGRAPHS receive the highest
praise, and are acknewledged to be beautiful and
artistic. Inspection is invited to the choice col-
lection of Portraiture now on exhibition in the
vestibule leading to their Studios in the Royal
Arcade.
MR. THOMAS CLEAVE,
who has had the honour of Photographing Her
Majesty Queen Victoria, TALH. Prince and
Princess of Wales, Prince Imperial, &c., &c., will
personally photograph each sitter.
Messrs. C. and Co. respectfully ask that ladies
desirous of sitting should make appointments in
the early part of the day.
grosvenoFgalleries,
Royal Arcade.
BOOKS. BOOKS. BOOKS.
Bought, Sold, or Exchanged
Q K AAA VOLUMES New and Secondhand
/OIIjVUU Books always on view at
WILLIAM DYMOGK’S
BOOK ARCADE, 208 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Catalogues post free.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
UDOIPHO WOLF ESSON £C° !a
w
17CREMUN
ftncy /r?^(9
' At/
/!/«/ <^?
' sCfa7l^~£*
ILLUSTRATION (in reduced size) of £1 Order to be found in the
J LARGE BOTTLES” OP WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.


RAW VASELINE.
A
*3
HORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
Collar Check and Serge, 40 and 44 inches ;
if rge assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladies’ and
Gentlemens Saddles, Spurs, and all kinds of
Saddlers Ironmongery, &c.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS, AND SADDLER!
IRONMONGERS,
125 YORK ST., SYDNEY.
C t.?' ,■
df
. v • , t
c. H. SMITH & SON,
Manufacturers and Importers
OP
HATS and CAPS,
302 GEORGE STREET, *
3 Doors South of Hunter-street.
m
<1
Wholesale manufacture!
"CONFECTIONER
George S N
Ma&ky,
JAMES STEDMAN
oTtAii worn,Kent s* nea« Ermine'S!
'lCxdJ+ity CoSm4 ou 4>omA,
Tpo"Qc* oh Smort£st nance.
m
SINGER
and Co. 's
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap
JOHN BANKS,
363 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
E
U
P
H
0
I
i
K
. T
uEENS LAND
- UB Ef-QR
! ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS. COUGHS
*■*4t 1 . PR£ PAREin (ini v nv
p
I
L
F
E
R
A
f ATKINSON’S >
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
f> agrance.
Tn nr.T. Gold Medals—
PARIS, 1878, CALCUTTA, 1881,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
GOLD MEDAL BOUQUET
ESS. BOUQUET
TREVOL
WOOD VIOLET
CHYPRE
and other well-known Fcrfumes are un-
equalled for tl.eir delightful and lasting odour
ATKINSON’S EAU DE TOIIETTE DE LONORES.
L' nsurpassed for refreshing and softening the
skin, dnd an exceedingly choice Perfume for
the Handkerchief, An entirely new article
prepared exclusively h\ the Inventors
0/ all Dealers, and o/ the Manufacturers —
J & E. ATKINSON,
21, Old Rond Street, London,
k Trade Mark—“ White Hose” on« Golden
Bn Lyre.”
"J
E.
■Hare
CORNILLON & CO., Wine and Spirit
Merchants, 22 Bridge street, Sydney
on Sale— ’
Mackies & Co. celebrated Whiskie
E. Remy Martin & Co.’s Centaur Brandy, in
bulk and cases
Vve. Martin and Fils Squirrel Brandy
Ca. Vincoladelnorte de Espana, Rioja Clarets,
Port, &c.
The unequalled A.V.H. Gin, See., &o.
SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED)
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
flvi°i W J Intereafc as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT on
ZrS slt3 for 12 m °nths; FIVE PER CENT
CEm^ PWARDS for shorter Periods; FIVE PER
sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
anch, Payable on demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
V, WARHEAM, Manager,
FURNITURE, CARPETS, & HUGS
BEDSTEADS and IBEZDZDIHSra-.
THE NEW FUKNITIJRE AND CARPET WAREHOUSE,
'FI
r, fxy/f W?/7 V v
'S CD •'■' °M v-lAv
. ’ <V VxV N) ~
o> V: ipVW:^
C- 4 3
o/4N ;
M -4
o.
iM! SV
' V-' -C” -
V Vii' i W '-TV"
luth
L?
>-.-/
VP
UI :
~'w
Wr
?±X
£J
?f*e
■■feo' #-CS °y .
- '’"“ r ‘ - Vt,i r J . O c***
ILb
SS !
‘ .rf
uvvr
-i.
;C',q-
S'
EmuaiHji
as
VA
I
I
if ss
Mi
; / - '
'W
THE GORDON - DINING-ROOM SUITE.
<JASTEEREAGH STREET,
E R HUNTEE
STREET
JONES, LAWSON BROS., & CO.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
NEAR HUNTER STREET.
fJIHURSDAY ISLAND SCHOOL OF ARTS.
Large and Commodious Hall and Stage; also
Handsome “Lipp” Piano.
For Particulars and Terms apply to
J. W. RAYMENT,
, Hon. Sec.
URING HATTER
OEORGE STREET
S
N
E.V
LC
NEWEST
HAPES
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
WVZ I mmir^
6? SHOE BHLEH3, SUCCESS gj 9SHSO3T&
gd
’ BAUTHAWATC
111 BEUSILi
Peerless
Gloss.
9 kcss %]li fa ffcry
(IfekcSstd
pcfisbi li&tf uj
Chiltrßß’t Bggt%
Stess, EsKsn ssj
erifisgi
brcsfelas. fllwayi
fifes otlifutbi,
sos Tor?.
VIKNNA.
rses.
1378. ii
tB7&
Is ssssedsd ta gg
Hi ITMMiI, 89
} s.Vi , £. u J HAW * Y * ao '««b
|@l A 239 Cenfros Street* Sastg^
MAPS,, VJLA
UMBRILLAS
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Havj your Umbrella Frames re-
covered, and your
I arasols re-llned and made equal
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets.
Jr; arasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly executed
XXT J O H N S O N
TT • COOPER, SURVEYOR,
F and.
LICENSED OAUGER
11 PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND
STREET, SYDNEY.
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces and Kegs, Tallow
S’F eW a /\ d second ‘ hand ■' al so, Wine and
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prices.
gauging in all its branches.
Monuments
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone.
tv* x , t on Railings.
Design and Estimates forwarded on requea
J. CUNNINGHAM,
Maboaekt-strbkt. Wynward squabs:, Sydney
health is wealth.
b^aIST
H fiRV
TREATM
FMT
mmm&m
liplitsStl
Quart the
JOHN C. WEST and CO.,
65 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Circular sent free on application.
<£loo Reward!
JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
65 Market-street Sydney, N.S.W.
Sent Prepaid by post on receipt of Is. per box in stamps.
w w w
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMENT.
«onf al • reme '\ y for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumbaro
Price Is, and 2s. per Bottle.
JOHN C. WEST & CO., Sole Proprietors.
SYDNEY, CHICAGO and
TORONTO,
ADj R Y, NEWTON, & LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
n a DTW ™ warehousemen,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
aTTr^S D T ? INGf manufacturers.
a P P TW O ROOMS and manufactory !
MURING and C’CONNELL STRHwa
F Vl xlk a S tHJ TKS for DINING-ROOM.-SIDE
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON TAm w
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS
Cma™ ° HAIRS ’ and DINING CHAIRS
am
N
Sideboards of modern
designs and various dimen
sions, in OAK, MAHOGANY
WALNUT, ASH, and CEDAR*
A large selection, at all
prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
TyiAWINQ-Rocw SUITES, Fashionable Tin
and Lamb! ’ &t ““ PrlCeS ’ Eradlc J r - Newton,
fg
£B5
PIANOFORTE,
guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brilliant
tone, in handsome ease.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMiOKrifiKS of PI AN OFORTF Kxr fu ir AC ,'
celebrated makers y the MOST
variety of desic-na • oi„„ , °oa,s. Immense
in Embridery, Plush finished
and LAMB, Furniture T^ A f DLE I,’ NiS WTON,
Spring Streets 6 Importors ’ O’Connell and
dfg
w
ALN U T FALI7
WKiTING°DKaf|™ S ™i 1 '
sstssssa^Sffi
ing Irays, Stationery Draw-
Tnl’ ? ev ° lvin » Portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Veka Outside DnftSS'S “dtfSj -la?
I'rfftv 7 .™ ov . able partitions to admit of enfant*
ng or diminishing the space when required I oek«
automatically. One of the most useful comma
OT OflW d Perfectly-plannedarticles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to
necessities of professional and businesq m 6
NeWt ° n ’ and L<Unb ’ °’ Connell Spring
ap
hs£
Drawing room cabi-
NETS, Early English and
'jnippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets,
Drawing-room occasionaiTchair^
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYI F 3
rn™, fro M i 2a , m. Br«dto. £2
df
c II E s T 3
J C E
all sizes,
From 275,
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
A HA^ S f °, r Parlour > Library, or Bed-
material. W d ° SignS CoVered to order
gs
UPRIGHT
ED
REFRIGERATORS,
various sizes,
371XCELSIOR
IMPRO'V
From 455.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
SELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH fnv
~ and MEDICAL MEN. ’
"R 0( ™ EAS Y CHAIRS, elegant and risL
t u VJL a BpecialtJr - Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O Connell-street.
dfg
EDDING.— All
BRADLEY, :
Bedsteads, a ii B i zea
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Importers,
U Connell and Spring Streets.
N a “wT P ON M and l7mi
sdf
CJPRUnu MATTRASSEf?
kj Woven W'ire, be»
make ; also, Spiral Sprint*
' ■ “ " Pri ce, from 14s. each,
BRADLEY. NEWTON and LAMB.
P -FraiSTras^^-l55Sr-taS
vy 13s. 6d. , Dining Tables, from 20s. • Kitchen
STo/T 278 - 6d V fom 12*1“
807 (VdL D nv^ rS ’- from 40s ' : Wardrobes, from
Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
WHK S ’ 10 ®‘ ’ clothes Houses, from 10s. 6d. j
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s,
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and la MR


Sir Patrick Jennings.—The “Leader” of his Party.


gs
&ALICYL
exyuisitey
£)ie£\j
t Wud
BY THE PROPRIE TOR,
dfg
sdfg
sdf
| TOOTH, PASTE
UfI RIVALLED EO/f ITS///ii SEPTIC
/Mo CLEAf/sif/O PROPERTIES.
T.B
MELHUISH , Pharmaceutical Chemist
134 William ST, S YDNEY^LI
DOTS
OOTS
T. WILLIAMS & CO.,
IMPORTERS OF
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Also Manufacturers of
The Finest Quality of Goods in the above Lines.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
SIOH
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
WANTED IN EVEKY HOUSE,
5S
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS,
ALL NOXIOUS INSECTS.
FLEAS.FUES. BEETLES MOSOUITOES.
AND IS
AT THE SAME TIMEOUITE
HARMLESSTO BIRDS DOGS.
V>\J Cf
'FOWLS OR OTHER ,
'ANIMALS m
'■K
••iluM-Z
gsd
fg
■
PbrALLCHEMISTf
AND STOREKEEPERS
WHOItSfIU !
FELTON* GRIM WAD fW-C®
-MELBOURNE—
WANTED IN EVERY*HOU SE
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
JUOSON'S
Vegetable Spirit Improved
sdf
These Stains being a Varnish and Stain combined, Require neither size nor
knotting before or after application.
“ Those Stain now who never Stained before,
And they who once have Stained now Stain the more.”
6d., Is,, 25., 4s. per bottle,
Sold bv Chemists, Stationers, Ironmongers, Oilmen,- Storekeepers, sc., se.
HENEY LANCABTEE
/ C/S TRR/VS
TA/jG/9 /**//)/S/J,*
0/7
CAL VA/V/SHTD
»
/ROW
AT AT A? CA
BODV
lit Ullllllllllllllllll
MOT WATER
I III? liiiiiiiiimn
ICYLINDERH
KINK
NOT AFFECTED
BY WEATHER
IUIRWN
imiJE TROUGH
UIKHIn /
• CANNOT be broken
t FOR MANY YEARS
engaged in the
Leading Workshops
of England,
Lately 5 years with
Hudson Bros,,
Manufacturer of
WROUGHT IRON
TANKS & CISTERNS,
of any size or shape,
for squatters, wool-
washers, and station-
owners.
Horse and Cattle
Troughs,
of every description,
wrought-iron pipes, s. s.
funnels, ventilators,
&c., &c.
Estimates cheerfully given.
Works:
: LISTS FURNISHED ON APPLICATION.
65 GEORGE STREET, WEST, near Railway Station.
OEGANS!
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
“SMITH.”
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
THE GREAT LITER REMEDY.
from Dandelion, and tree from the
particle of mercury or mineral substance,
. 6 the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
i so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
jtjroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
Perl P re P arat i on > an d the result of practical ex-
They overcome the worst form of
jj* ea ses of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys,
yet to hear that they have not afforded
'Mediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
BRUCE & MASSEY,
PIANOS,
ORGANS, MUSIC.
197 Pitt-st., Sydney.
MARSHALL'S
TONIC NERVINE!
LRK—“ TONIC NERA
ON, and SPEEDY CURE
ility, and all complaints that
_e, as Neuralgia, Toothache,
ss of Appetite, Female Disorders
nts, General Prostration, Impover
■ne, Loss of Vital Power, &c. I
™ ta it at once removes all
ness in phosphorous and ot
THE ORICINAL
VV^-tiAKI
WAUGHS
•STArNCB A
F IRST CLASS AWARD.
Otl |
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
A
;v
* . \
ISTHE BEST IN THE WORLD I!
RONE OTHER BUT ®
OL2S
tIAMJfACiOiED pyJames Channon
O (
StMbyAJI froctrttßtfttonknpers
« LO|V£.
MARSHALL BROf
DENTISTS
133 ELI ZABETH $T
Robert butcher & co,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Town Hall, Sydney.
<2T Country* Orders receive prompt attention.
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
(ESTABLISHED 1860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &c., from the Sotuhem
Colonies or New Zealand, may be made to Arthur
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
Her Majesty the Queen.
| H.R.H. the Prince of Wales.
H.M. THE KING ON THE NETHERLANDS.
m
H.I.M THE CZAR OP RUSSIA
Agents for New South Wales
TRAPP & ELLES,
54 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
D R RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
BR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
BIDDELL BROTHERS,
CONFECTIONERS,
505, 507, 507£ GEORGE STREET,
Every article in the trade. [Caterers supplied
with New Goods.
Acme Lozenges, most superior
Pachouli and Cachou Comfits, in 3d. boxes
Voice Jujubes
Finest Jam Sugar, in \ and lib tins
Sherbet and New Motto Kisses
Note. —Biddell’s London Mixtures are all of
regular quality.
PAPERHANGINGS
HIGH-CLASS DADOES, FRIEZES, and
DECORATIONS.
House Decorator and
Painter,
GLASS SILVERER, BEVELLER & EMBOSSER
Alex. Borthwick
Oil, Colour, and Glass Merchant,
281 ' George-street, Sydney.
LICHTNER AND CO.,
PHOTO-STOCK IMPORTERS,
24 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND 37 COLLINS STREET EAST, MELBOURNE.
n
V I ft
r*'
Finger on tlie trigger-line, keeping cool and steady,
No fussing round the camera, or firing till you’re
ready;
Train, or tram, or steamer, tricycle or bike,
There’s nothing now half fast enough, take which
one you like.
By the sad sea waves she photos while they moan;
Of love she never raves, but plays her hand alone l
Her camera the friend to help her fancy’s flight;
Her life is one long blend of beauty with delight,
PHOTOGRAPHIC OUTFITS,
Including all requisites for the amateur or the professional, can be had at
prices to suit all requirements.
tar Send for Catalogue, tat
“BOOKS.” Any Book You Want. “BOOKS.”
A.NQ-XJS & Robertson
118 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY. *
Large stock of new and second-hand Books. Price of any book on application. JBooka
mail to any part of AuetraKa, l«ooka Hot by


ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksraithing, Plumbing.
Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH,” “VALVE,” and “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Pan Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters,
Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS,'TAND9 MACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Price on Application.
WOOD WORKING AND SAW MILL MACHINERY.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Are SOLE AGENTS for
T. _A.. IF’a.sr ds Co., Ciricir^zcLSiti
And carry a Large Stock of their Celebrated Machines.
EVERY REQUISITE FOR WOOD-WORKING AND SAW-MILLING IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogues and Prices.
Offices and Stores: 17 PITT STREET, Circular Quay, Sydney.
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPIRITS,
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that fie has just completed extensive additions to his WHOLESALE and
RETAIL BOTTLE DEPARTMENT, which is now replete with a well-assorted Stock of the Best Brands of Wines'
and Spirits, personally selected by the proprietor.
He can therefore confidently recommend the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, hopes to merit the patronage
which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
ENGLISH ALES and STOUT, OF ALL BRANDS, ONE SHILLING EACH PER QUART.
THE FINEST BRANDS OF WHISKY, BRANDIES, PORTS, SHERRIES, CLARETS, and CHAMPAGNE, at the
Lowest Prices obtainable in Sydney.
itST A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU. SPECIAL PRICES FOR CASES OF THE ABOVE.
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, all returns being allowed for
Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at any Country Railway Station or wharf Free of
Charge.
P. R. Larkin wishes to call your attention to his famous £3 Cases, containing the following :
3 Bottles BRANDY
1 Bottle JAMAICA RUM
1 Bottle PORT WINE
3 Bottles WHISKY
l Bottle WOLFE'S SCHNAPPS
1 Bottle SHERRY WINE
Total 18.
7 Bottles LOWNDES’ RUM
1 Bottle OLD TOM
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best'quality, and have given perfect satis-
faction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, please make P. O. Order payable at th Haymarket Post Office.
KINDLY NOTE THE ADDRESS:
P, R. LARKIN, Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant and Importer,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL, GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS, HAYMAKET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 778 and 780 George-street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
3STEIW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
LLUEBTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
LEA &PERRINS SAUCE
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the on every bottle
bears their Signature thus —■
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask for LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors , Worcester; Crosse and
Blackwell , London , dry., d’-y. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
SAUC
SOW
jMikPtßßlig
Wholesale Agents! Montefiobe, Joseph & Co.; David Cohen & Co., Sydney.
J. M. ELLEROAMP,
GLOVER, HOSIER, AND MEN'S MERGER
AND IMPORTER OP
Ladies’ English and Foreign Boots and Shoes,
15 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BEST HOUSE IN THE COLONY FOB SHILLING 80A.RFS.
c _a_ l n. a. t
The Mercantile Tailoring Palace
Where you can get
A Pair of West of England Tweed Trousers (made to yorn measure) for
or a Sac Suit for 50/-. Fit Guaranteed.
AND MEASUREMENT FORMS BY POST. |*@»
722 George-street, Haymarket, Next Alhambra Music B^*
PEETTrIAU & obC
INDIA-RUBBER MERCHANTS,
IB ERSKINE STREET,
m GARDEN HOSE, ALL SIZES AND LENGTHS.
India-rubber Goods for Mechanical, Horticultural, Surgical, and general parpo 8 ®**
SPECIAL QUOTATIONS FOR QUANTITIES.
o
>:
gsdfgsdfg
1
OOT
, &
laZJM f j
252 a Gecrjfe S* ~!j
JPectfe cuuZ' Ifarcourl- SyDX&**
OFFORD & CO»*S HATfI
LIGHTEST, BEST, and CHEAPEST.
NEXT TO ROYAL HOTEL, and at 652 GEORGE STUB® 1 '
THE FOLLOWING GOODS
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Corn Paint, la
Asiatic Liniment, 2s
That Modern Appetiser, The Australian Relish, Is
A. Soyer’s Baking Powder, (free from alum) 6d.
Page’s Custard powder, 4 in Box, Is. —makes two
quarts fine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linctus, for coughs Is.
Clayton s Nervine tor toothache and cold in the
gums. Is.
Dr. Barbarossa’s Cantharides and Russian Bear’s
Grease Oil, for covering bald patches and pro
ducing whiskers. 2s. 6d.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE iMONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO..
177, 268 and 266 PITT STREET.
J. MURPHY ; S~
CENTRAL LOAN AND DISCOUNT
OFFICES,
CORNER OF KENT AND LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite George-street.
MONEY LENT AT THE LOWEST RATF OF INTEREST
IN THIS CITY,
Loans from Is. to £lOOO, at lOd. in the £
per month.
Loans on Gold and Silver Jewellery, Clothing,-
and every description of Portable Property,
granted at Rates never before attempted in this
Colony.
American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murphy’s Central Loan and Dis-
count Offices, corner of Kent and Liverpool
streets, opposite George-street.
Try POQONOWSKI
FOR
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS
The Largest Assortment in the Colonie
705 GEORGE STREET.
Send for Price List.
The fresh food and ice coi
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
No. 23 ROYAL ARCAD®
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, & o, >
light refreshments.
■gtf
At this Branch, orders may be left for
by their carts.
„ (flt
They have also taken over the Agenw
“ KOUMISS.” so highly recommended in
nary pomplaints.
FRESH FOOD AND ICE 00.,
Head Office
Stables
Factory
21
Mittagong. J,
Guinness’ Extra Stout*
FIRST QUALITY*
maP>;
BASS’ PALE ALB-
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COIOMAL AND INDIAN EXmßlT^’
LONDON,
By Special Appointment. (
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WAL®» ‘ n
W. BALCHIN, JOHNSTON & >
Commercial Chambers, Boud*street«»
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
FRYS MALTED COCOA!
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
"AN ORDINARY CUP CONTAINS MORE ACTIVE PROPERTIES OF MALT THAN A PINT OF THE BEST ALE OR PORTER." Lancbt.
E ROWLANDS,
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS.
Manufacturer of all kinds of -ZErated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Vigorine,
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 and 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the ONLY GOLD MEDAL for Pirated and Mineral Waters ; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs, Bitters, &c.
