

The Bulletin


ASK FOR COLONIAL-MADE
Wire
PROOF
\ _4
PROOF.
y CIN
ETTffIG!
BRAND.
Cheaper than Imported.
MANUFACTURED BY
JOHN LYSAGHT, Limtd.
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SYDNEY.
MoLEAN BROS., BIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY ME RCH AN TS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
o
<b
IRONMONGERS
512
<p
V
o
REG?
1
SPECIALITIES:
lavis’ Sewing-Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
GAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &c., &c.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 and 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
RELIABLE
BUGGIES
FIRST GRADE
STYLE,
QUALITY,
and
FINISH.
UfißD by All the
Leading Citizens*
NOT HOW CHEAP,
BUT HOW GOOD!
\
FLEMING’S
WAGGONS
AND
Harness,
Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
—n
Call and Inspect
Hardman Bros.
r >'
ft
iii)iiiiiiimininitmniiiiniiiiun'
ANUFACTURER&
iiiniiiinniimimHMiniHMuiiinim
tint uy/
sro
/<95«
hcao Office & factory. Newtown o Branch, George SB, Sydney
GoLarnSYM/Pj
Treacie
REE//VERS
J. M. ELLERCAMP,
GLOVER, HOSIER, AND MEN’S MERCER,
AND IMPORTER OF
Ladies’ English and Foreign Boots and Shoes,
15 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BFST HOUSE IN THE COLONY FOR SHILLING SCARFS.
<*u>
» 4rc
M ‘OARTHY <& CO.,
TOBACCO IwtßKOiai^.lSrTS,
669 George-street, Haymarket, Sydney.
Depot for all Cameron Bros, and Co.'s renowned Tobaccos.
Importers of Havanna and Manilla Cigars. A large and superior assortment
of Meerschaum, Briar, and Clay Pipes.
Sole agents for the celebrated Buffalo Tobaccos, Cigars, and Cigarettes.
Manufacturers of Nonpareil Cigarettes. , N.B. Trade parcels at Factory Prices.
0
as?
c i
on
£3£P!
XTNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
vJ Crispness distinguis Wilson’s Ame-
rican “Extra Toast” BISCUITS, For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and incomparible
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Sussex Street, Sydney.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS. & 00.,
(J. A. ROBERTS, R. J. ALCOCK, G. C. CHALMERS, R. O. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
IRON, HARDWARE, AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS 1
Importers of
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES WOOD- WORKING
RAILWAY and other CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS AU 1 ’
CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDERS' MATERIALS.
SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES. &c.
eSS W&Hm
BJai
mot* YAn/j- ■ -rrmniiiliiHiTl W* I ; Lb-Ji Til 1 1; i llElHlin
BAR, PLATE, SHEET and HOOP IRON ; GALVANISED, CORRUGATED and a n4
SHEET and PERFORATED ZINC ; TINPLATES; PIG IRON and LEAD ; OILS, P A ifi IRON
BRUSHWARE; FENCING WIRE, WOOLPACKS, SHEARING SUPPLIES, oAi
MONGERY, ROLLED H GIRDERS; PORTABLE, FIXED, and SEMI FIXED ENGINES,
and HORIZONTAL BOILERS, STEAM and other PUMPS, LATHES, PLANING,
SCREWING, and DRILLING MACHINES; STEAM HAMMERS; ENGINEERS’ BRASS FOUr>
PATENT ROLLED SHAFTING, QUICKSILVER, &c. ;
Sole Agents for FARMER, ROBEY, and BROWN’S CELEBRATED PORTABLE
ENGINES ; READING IRON WORKS’ AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS and PATENT.
WM. TAYLOR and CO.’S Celebrated OILS and PAINTS.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application. j
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
Head Warehouse .
Iron and Implement r Yard -
Bulk Stores- - ’
London Office
54 YORK STREET.
HAY and ENGINE STREETS. „„nTTH<
HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARB UU
S'STID3SrE-y_
85 GRACECHURCH STREET.
TOBACCO.
mm
m
DIXSON&SONS
TOBACCO WORKS
SYDNEY.
OIXSON A SONS
CONQUEROR
YANKEE DOODU
SIR ROGER**
QiXSQN A SONS rM 6
nailrod
champion**
OIXSON & SONS AROMATIC
CUT . In Tim Pscutli 8»«°,
R.C.RUBY. fc
CIGARETTE GOLD LEAF AC^
ax
M
OTS
ww
:*<
N
mm
Roo^
TrAMWA r l A/VO OAi
15
eE'i
JiUJiTET^
m
him thk great northern hotel.
Charlotte-place and (Jeoroe-street
K. HANNEY’S
1 DOZEN CASE
OK
assorted
WIKIS, SPIRITS, and MALT LIQUORS,
DELIVERED ANY PART OF CITY FREE.
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer.
Order the Idoz. case as you please from the list of
low prices as under, viz. :
Robertson’s W alker or Royal Blend
Scotch Whiskies Is. per bottle.
Dunville’s Shamrock and Burke's
XXX Irish Whiskies
Brian Boru Whisky...
Hennessy’s * Cognag
***
Square Gin
Jamaica Rum
Red Heart do _ -•
Flasks Brandy and Whiskies ... Is. 6d. & 2s. 6d.
English Ales and Stout, best brands Is,
or lls 6d. per dozen
Port Wine, for connoisseurs and
invalids 6s.
Port Wine and Sherry, from ... 2s.
Best brands Whisky or Brandy
from 20s. per gallon.
£3 CASE ALSO A SPECIALITY.
Marks's Ale, Porter, and Lager Beer.
Certificate of merit of the first-class and silver medal
awarded at the Calcutta Exhibition, and patronised by his
Excellency the Governor s household, bd. per bottle. All
first-class Goods. - One trial will prove the fact. Bottle De-
partment of the GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL, Corner
George-street and Charlotte-place. Orders by post solicited.
Mrs. Hanney attends personally on lady patrons.
M-ec/^
c.WtvNKS &
rV*
machinery.
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE STOCKS
WITH ALL
NEWEST DESICNS
HIGHEST FINISH
* AT
LOWEST COST!
CRAH £S
ANP
hoist"* 3
enoiK* 8 '
l aW h
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS
ESTIMATED FOR
-Taunches,^
COMPLETE^
ROBERT COOPER
■fe. SOLE AGENT
BST|5i
Sydney:
IN, PITT STREET.
US SHIM ‘zz


The Bulletin
Vol. 7-No. 353
SATURDAY, YOYEMBER 6, 1886.
Price., od.
“A Fellow Feeling Makes Us Wondrous Kind.”


THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 21 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
T2RMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance.)
Per annum .. .. ~ .. £1 OS. Od.
Half-yearly .. .. .. .. 0 12s. Cd.
Quarterly .. .. .. 0 6s. 6d.
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters payable
.1. M. HARDING,
' ) whom all orders for the paper, advertisements, and remit-
- nces should be addressed.
Postage-stamps of any Australian colony accepted for
a nounts under £1
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
correspondence column all contributions submitted—whether
1 i the form of political, social, or ether articles, verse, short
. des or sketches, paragraphs, letters, or newspaper-clippings.
U 1 communications will be regarded as strictly eofidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MHH. when the
iddress is specified and stamp* are enclosed. But we desire
hose sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
esponsible for the preservation or transmission of such
dSS.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
By-sending direct to The B u jJletin Offee twenty shiHings
sterling in advance —which you may pay by Post Office
Order,. One-pound Note, or stamps of any Australian colony
-you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
weelrfor a year.
Now, by special arrangements, we are enabled to make the
following offer, open to all subscribing direct to this office,
between September 1 and December 31, 1886.
Anyone sending the.cash for six yearly subscriptions, will
be entitled to a bonus of twenty shillings. Postmasters and
>ther /agents will understand that we will send £1 to anyone
forwarding us six prepaid yearly subscriptions.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is' entirely in
she hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
fere.
IMPORTANT.
The publisher will consider it a favour if any reader
of The Bulletin will forward him the name and
address of any newsdealer who is not selling this paper.
THE BULLETIN,
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1886.
Chinese Slaves in South Australia.
At the very time when Sir Graham Ber
and the other Iscariots of Australia a
lending their traitorous aid to an attempt
deliver Australian Independence up to t
“aristocracy ” of “Downing-street,” adang
which may rightly be described as terrible, me
aces not colonial prosperity alone, but thepe
sonal independence of every colonist. We ref
to the assisted immigration of Chinese in
South Australia for the purpose of construe;
ing the Pine Creek Railway and oth
Works. Tht expression “ assisted ” is strict
correct, for not only is the poll-tax remittee
in their favour, but work is also guaranteec
to them on arrival. No more disastro
blow to the individual liberty of Australiai
than this has ever been dealt by any Legi
lative Assembly. Urged by the prospect
a small saving in the cost of constructioi
the South Australian Ministry decided
sell the heritage of looal labourers for
paltry mess of Mongolian pottage—tl
amount of the saving thereby secured
Ancient Rome in her corrupt old ago ga\
gold to the barbarians to keep them froi
plundering the city. South Australia, mor
base and cowardly still, permits the Chines
barbarian to take away from colonial worl
men a share of their labour, and conse-
quently a measure of their independence, i
order that she may avoid the expenditure o
gome £60,000 of loan money. “Austral
for the Chinese,” is the motto of the Ministr
of South Australia.
* * *
Here it is useful to revert to the Imperia
Federation]'sts. Their excuse for pressin
on a consummation of their system is the suj
posed necessity for completing the defence c
Australia; but it is against England’s enemie
that the defence is to be made—Australia ha
no enemies of her own. Therefore the com
pletest defence against these enemies wouli
be permanently secured by separation o
Australia from England. National indepen
dence secured, though all Europe were a
war our shores need fear no assault, our ship
could sail in all waters, and goods be carried
safely to all ports ; as matters stand at pro
sent, England’s indulgence in hostilities wit!
any other power would render every Goloma
ship, all colonial goods, and all our towns
liable to seizure, and confiscation oi
destruction. With regard to this evil
greater than war, the Chinese invasion, Im
perial Federation would be worse thai
powerless, for if Australian politics were
again subordinated to Downing-street control
even the poll-tax now levied in the colonies
would have to be abandoned, as being op
posed to the spirit of English treatios witl
China. After separation from England, on
the contrary, a federated Australia could act
unitedly on the question ; ports could be ab-
solutely closed to the Chinese, and the whole-
sale importation of slave labour at once and
for ever rendered impossible of achievement
by any one of the colonies. Thus we may
gather from this brief digression that Aus-
tralia’s surest defence against all foreign
enemies, including the Chinese, is to be found
in independence and federation of her colonies ;
and that the present union with England
entails continual danger of assault and inva-
sion by foreigners—a dawg. r that woeld be
largely increased by the institution of any
system of Imperial Federation.
* * *
The evident evils arising from this new
departure in Australian railway construction,
appear in stronger relief when viewed in the
light of recent information concerning the
Chinese labourers. On this point the
straightly and strongly speaking North
Australian, published at Palmerston, gives
useful and reliable information. From its
recent issues we gather that (Chinese labour
is entirely controlled by local agents who
exercise an unlimited power over the men,
keeping them in a state of virtual slavery.-
Messrs Mlllar Bros., the contractors for
Pine Creek Kailway, when they required
labour called for tenders, and the agents
offered over 300 Chinese at wages ranging
from 3s. 4d. to 4s. (Id. per diem, and if the
latter figure were offered asserted their
ability to supply 1000 more within a fort-
night. The immediate response to Millar
Bros. demand proves how fierce a foe
menaces the Australian workman on his own
shores, and the extremely low wage required
proves that competition between Australian
freemen and Chines# slaves is utterly out of
the question. If the two clashes ever meet
in the labor market the Australians, despite
their higher skill and greater strength,
must immediately succumb. And further,
this low rate of pay foreshadows the
efforts that will ia future be made
to bring the two classes into such open
competition. The temptation to get
work done for, say 30 per cent, less than it
would cost if white men were employed,
will be too great to be resisted by capitalists;
any patriotism they may possess will not
avail to prevent the employment of these
slave-gangs wherever their labour is capable
of effecting a saving. There is no flight of
fancy or element of improbability in such
anticipation, for already the evil has been
productive of disastrous influence. While
unemployed men in thousands are demand-
ing work from the representatives of Govern-
ment in Adelaide, Melbourne, Brisbane, and
Sydney, Chinese slaves and labourers con-
tinue to obtain constant employment—
scrub-cutting, dam-sinking, and ring-bark-
ing in each of the colonies. The Australians
whom they displace find much difficulty in
getting other work ; the magnetic attraction
of the capital cities draws them thither ;
they arrive in the metropolis only to find
their quest more hopeless than in the dis-
tricts whence tney came ; starvation con-
fronts them, and then they accept one of
thre? alternatives—suicide, crime, or a com-
mission with the Unemployed. This is the
effect of the Chinese cheap labour in the
present. From its wholesale employment
under Government patronage at Pine Creek,
we are therefore warranted in the expecta-
tion that these evils will be enlarged and in-
tensified in the future.
* * *
It is not in the matter of wages alone that
Chinese labour is advantaged. There is be-
sides this the benefit which arises from a con-
centration of command ; the labour-agent
is, as far as direction of his men is concerned,
in himself, all that an Australian trade-
union attempts to be. It is for him to
decido the rate which his gangs shall receive,
and his decision is final. There is no
division of counsels similar to those which
occasionally hamper trade-unions: there are no
blacklegs ’ ’ who will accept less than the stated
rate, for Chinamen cannot singly in such
cases contract for their labour ; and there
can be no refusal of the men to accept the
wage decided upon by their all-powerful
agent. The Chinese labourers are like
“ dumb driven cattle ” : their will is that of
the agent, their pay such as lie chooses to
allow. And he seldom chooses to allow
much. In his capacity of agent, he keeps 5
per cent, of the wage earned, and then in
his business as storekeeper supplies the
workers with all that they require, deduct-
ing the amount from their pay vouchers.
The North Australian calculates from
data supplied by a local agent, that suppos-
ing the labourer to work 22 whole days in a
month, at the rate of 43. 61, for which he
should receive £4 195., this amount will
be reduced by agent’s charges, and cost of
supplies to £1 I Is., thus giving to each
man a net return of a fraction less than Is.
od. per diem. The important consequences
which these figures involve should be
sufficient reason for their quotation here.
They show the magnitude of the impending
danger, and the cruelty —a cruelty approach-
ing crime- of permitting the leprous pagan
to rob the Australian navvy of his heritage of
independence - bringing labour.
* * *
It must not be forgotten by Australian
electors that this employment of foreign
labour is a practical adoption of Free-trade
theories. The South Australian Govern-
ment, in preferring the labour of Chinese to
that of their own men, are simply acting
upon the Free-trade maxim that “ a nation
which wishes to become wealthy should
always buy in the cheapest market.” Al-
though this railv ay is not imported, the
labour by which it is built is so imported,
which comes to precisely the same thing in
the end. In cither case the money which it
costs goes to a foreign country, and the home
labourers are deprived of that employment
which is fheir only means of profit. In this
instance the colony acquires wealth in fixed
capital, at a less cost than if the labour
ne os a: ary to produce that wealth were
undertaken by local men. This is a con-
spicuous advantage according to the Free-
traders creed, yet who will dare to justify
tlio action of the Government which took
Mill for its mentor in this affair ? Will Mr.
B. R. Wise, who has written a pamphlet to
prove that Free-trade beneficially effects the
wage-earner, or will Mr.- Fulbford, to whom
Protection spells national riiiil, venture to
do so ? They will not. Free-tiridets on this
side Of the globe always forswear their
creed when put to so crucial a test a§ this.
John Young, Mayor of Sydney, from wliOni
perhaps it is unwise to expect any eCidbiice
of political intelligence, boldly declares
himself a Free-trader, yet urges the imposi-
tion of 20 per cent, ad valorem duties in
01'dcr that colonial industries may riot be
crushed out of existence; Arid the three
Free-trade dailies of Sydney are not more
consistent; they, after vehemently denounc-
ing Protection in any shape, without excep-
tion supported the request of the ironworkers
for 10 per cent, concession in Government
contracts. Nor are these authorities
singular in their abandonment upon oc-
casion of the creed of Cobden. John
Stuart Mill and Henry George, the two
great writers on Free-trade, have each
admitted tire whole matter in controversy by
declaring in their books written for the
express purpose of proving Free-trade
to be the only true national fiscal
policy, that under certain circumstances
Protection may be beneficial. With regard
to the instance under r.\ i w, a 1 the above-
mentione 1 authorities would certainly declare
Protection to be the preferable policy. Butthis
development of Free-trade only differs from
its every-day action in that the consequences
can be clearly traced and observed. If in
other matters it were possible, to demonstrate
the effect of Free-trade with equal clearness,
there would not be one advocate of the doc
trines of Cobden within the four corners of
Australia.
* * *
It is not over-estimating the importance of
this use of Chinese slave labour in South
Australia to say that it doubles the force of
all that we have hitherto written on the
Chinese question by lending additional terrors
to the evil apprehended, and gives twofold
weight to the demand for Protection. It is
necessary that compulsion should be brought
to bear, so that the avarice of individuals
may not bar national, progress—compulsion
in the form of Protection, and compulsion by
anti-Chinese legislation are both required.
If they are not promptly obtained, the work-
men and citizens of New South Wales, who
will all ultimately suffer by the Chinese in-
vasion, if it be allowed to continue, will only
have themselves to blame for the calamity.
The danger is now near enough to make
further procrastination a crime.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“The Voice of the Country.”
Two-thirds Orange howl, one-third Free-
trade hysteric, is about the composition of the
“voice of the country ” which in “packed’’(but
*ot crowded) town-halls in the suburbs calls upon
the Governor of New South Wales to dissolve
Parliament. Orangeism has too far fallen in
public estimation to venture the open agitation of
its cause, and Free-trade has been too roughly
handled by its opponents and too far discredited in
the minds of electors to retain one tithe of its
wonted power: therefore any parade of the
principles supposed to govern either creed is im-
possible, and recognising this fact Orangemen and
Free-traders stand behind the hedge of indignant
patriotism and open fire upon the hated
Goteminent. Analysing the composition and
reported conduct of these meetings, reported too by
an excessively friendly press, we get some exceed-
ingly curious results. At Paddington, for instance,
a gang of Orangemen were 'let into the hall by a
side-entrance before the front doors were opened, so
there is little reason for surprise that “ Mr. J. B.
Neild, who entered late in the evening, received
a splendid reception.” This late entry, by the
way, seems to be a favorite practice of his, and
the “ splendid reception ” is always ready for him ;
whether he receives any prior intimation concern-
ing the pent-up enthusiasm or not we do not care
to inquire. .Again, at the G’ebe the master of
ceremonies and principal speaker was Mr. W. H.
L. Bailey, who runs a paper .d'eged to be the
organ of some, presumably future, Neo-Liberal
party of which Sir Henry Parkes is to be the
leader. At Randwiek, where, according to the
ITT. report, “about 100 persons” were present,
the chief orator was that reverend youth, W. S.
Frackleton, who during his two years’ experi-
ence of the colony seems to have acquired much
political information of a sort; as he was one of
the most fervid speakers at the Boyne Water cele-
bration in Sydney this year, it is not surprising
that his oration at the Randwiek meeting con-
cluded with the opinion that Mr. Abigail and
Mr Neild, a couple of leading Orangemen, were
worthy of all praise. Another point which
discounts the “ voice of the country” is the un-
conscionable lies it utters on matters of detail.
It asserts, for instance, that Mr. Abbott has put
121 of his relatives into Government billets ; that
four of the Ministers and their families draw a
total of £120,000 as salary ; and that every free-
thinking man would applaud Carington if he
dissolved Parliament at once. And the same
“voice” lends itself strongly to larrikinism of a
revolutionary order. Through the bellicose
Bailey at the Glebe it calls upon electors to go in
a body to the Assembly and by sheer strength and
brute force prevent Sir Patrick Jennings and
his colleagues from entering the House ; it calls
upon all men to “rise en manse and drive this
‘brutal Ministry’ from office”; and it urges the
taxpayers not to pay a cent more until the present
Government is “ hurled from office.” Such false-
hood, malice, and venom would never be im-
ported into a just cause ; it is because the big
majority of the agitators are obliged to conceal
their real purpose and secretly acknowledge they
have no case that they are led into these excesses.
Yet the remedy they seek could only end in
the utter overthrow of their own cause. If
an appeal were now to be made to the
country, squatters, Protectionists, Romanists,
and publicans would be able to send the Jen-
nings crowd back with a triumphant ma-
jority. Orangeism and Free-trade alone would
work for Sir Henry Parkes ; and each of these
powers has suffered immersely by the advance of
Protectionism. Orangeism is not the power it
once was. Some of its former adherents are now
ProtefctiohistS before all thingB ; its numbers
been dim inisiied, and the Frackletons who rn
main cannot compensate the losses by an iner ( ;
vehemence. With its usual luck the i>mv
Telegraph, ih applauding this movement throws
in its lot with a crowd doomed to defeat ’ and u
will not be long before that journal of polit
screams longs to remount the Protection redos
it formerly occupied. Yet, while Con flemnins- t
faked “ voice of the Country ” we do not wish
say a word in praise Of the Jennings’ Cabin
They are; collectively, the wofst lot of apolinr
for niihisters that ever inflicted tlieir baleful n
scencb oil New South Wales ; blit in their unfitn
to goverh they would be exceeded by any
which ParkeS; at the present time, could gath
—
Meil in Stickram,.
A case of more significance than appears un
the surface was recently heard in the Meibom
District Court. Lieutenant G. C, Officer
her Majesty’s forces in Victoria, proceeded asrair
James M’Ghie for assault. The gallant office
it seems, was returning on horseback, in coffina
with one Major Fellowes, from a parade
Albert Park, when mischievous M‘Ghie and son
other men drove by in a spring-cart. Shock!
to mention, the dazzling appearance of these wa
like equestrians in no way impressed the occ
pants of the vehicle, for—complained this ou
raged officer—“ as they approached they shoutei
out, and defendant made a blow with a whin
Witness’s horse.” For this piece of horse-play IV
M‘Ghie was lined £5. That there was nothi
very exceptional about the conduct of these la
rikins in the spring-cart was admitted by com
plainant. He stated that “ officers whilst
uniform are frequently subjected to insults
Mark that ! In this year of grace 1886, whe
English Tory papers are gushing over the Souda
Contingent and the patriotic spirit of tl
colonies ; when Australian Tory papers a
clamouring for a scheme of Imperial Feder
tion which would assured’y involve a larg
increase in the local naval and military force
one of the glorious defenders of our unthreatenec
shores complains that officers in uniform are fr
quently subjected to insults. In the “ Last of tl
Barons” Bulwer Lytton tells us that, simu
taneously with the introduction of the art o;
printing into England, the old-fashioned tourn
ments began to excite ridicule and contemp
among the “ common people.” As their ideas ex
panded they came to regard many time-honoure
institutions in a new light. The spectacle of tw
men in armour lilting at one another with lor
poles provoked irreverent laughter, where for
merly it had aroused enthusiasm. The absur
pomp associated with a tourney lost its eharm
and the principal actors were greeted with mediae
val chaff’ by the shopkeepers and ’prentice
vvho turned ,out to see the fun. Many years o
civil strife had sickened honest toilers of warlik
pageant and senseless masquerade. It began t
dawn upon them that the gallant knight was
expensive, unproductive creature, whose greed
“glory” was inimical to the interests of the bus
multitude which provided the sinews of was
Four centuries have elapsed since the period
which Lytton wrote, and during those four cen
turies the meretricious splendour of militar
display has sobered down in accordance wit
the growing intelligence of the ages. War
have been waged, with reason and withou
reason, but meanwhile the popular enthu
siasm for the great game and its players ha
gradually lessened. Only gradually, for that ver
art of which Caxton was one of the first teachers
has lent its powerful aid to throw a glamour ove
the profession of arms, and so helped to hold i
check the civilisation it has advanced. Neverthe
less, the influence of Jingo journalism is not s
strong in this new country of ours, as to make
popinjay officer an object of popular admiration
The lessons of the American War of Independence
and that more recent struggle between North and
South have not been thrown away. We have
learned that men can gain glorious victories with
out being born and bred to the business and that
noble soldier in the time of war can make himsel
a useful member of society in the time of peace
Australia, which has now nothing to do with wars
or rumours of wars, will be ready with her George
Washington, or Ulysses Grant, if ever the
hour demands the man. Till then we want no
military spirit,” no twopenny ha’penny parades
no epaulettes and fal-de-rals. To the Australiai
who has to work for his living a gaudy lieutenant
on horseback is a farcical sham. We regard the
ancient type of warrior with his eternal maif.ia
swagger, with much the same contempt that oui
forefathers of Caxton’s day felt for the then old
fashioned jouster. The country .has recovered
from its Soudan hysteria, but has not yet paid the
bill for the black man’s blood. A handful of self-
seeking politicians, indeed, are howling for
Imperial Federation, and the privilege of helping
England to fight her battles. To the Biitish Tories
who regard the howlers as interpreters ol
Australian sentiment, we would point out that in
Victoria the most jingoistic of all the colonies—
officers in uniform are frequently subjected to
insults. So long as these “insults” take the
form of harmless chaff and irreverent laughter we
shall regard them as a healthy sign of the timef.
But we are sorry that the rowdy gentleman in a
spring-cart allowed his feelings to get the better
of his j udgment. He is undoubtedly sorry hin. -
self. Somebody’s influence was brought to betr
upon the emplovers of this man M’Ghie, and in
addition to a £5 fine he has got the “ sack ” from
a situation he had held for 14 years. Wo need
not add that the employers treated their old
servant with unreasonable harshness. it is
sufficient to say that the miserable Argus glorified
their conduct in a drivelling leader.
♦
The British Navy.
Tl or more than 650 years—ever sin< 6
Eustace the Monk and his sanguinary crew ol
Gallic pirates were wiped out in the Channel,
England has existed solely by virtue of her navjA
and but for her navy she would probably no longci'
appear on the maps as an independent nation.
On the Continent of Europe—despite the lies and
prevarications of historians—she has lost as many
battles as she has gained, and after many a
disastrous campaign in the Netherlands of which
hardly a mention is made by the majority of
writers, an English army has been glad to put
the sea between itself and a victorious enemy, and
thus escape destruction, which would otherwise
have been its fate. The defeat of the British navy
will mean the immediate invasion of Britain, and
the British navy is threatening to fall to pieces
through the dry-rot of corruption and villainous
jobbery, through the appointment of gilded “ high
born fools to high office and the employment of
loafing royal mongrels in positions where they are
about as useful as a Chinese idol in a synagogue.
I ho fleet now chiefly consists of cumbersome iron
leviathans,, many of which dare not put to sea;
the best ” and most expensive British ironclads
—things that cost a million pounds apiece—cannot
go four days without and are thus-


hardly fitted for a voyage out of sight of land ;
and their armaments are composed of monster
guns which the commanders are often ordered not
to fire except in the last emergency on account of
the- destructive burst which would almost inevi-
tably ensue. The supply of these weapons may
be said to be a monopoly in the hands of one English
firm, and every one of the useless monsters with
which the fleet is hampered has paid enough in tips,
bribery, and grease to plate itself with gold. The
firm is a limited liability concern, and in the list
of shareholders will be found the name of almost
every man directly or indirectly connected with
the na. y. The members of the Admiralty who
order these huge cracked cylinders and pay for
them at exorbitant rates with the nation’s money
almost without exception draw dividends out of
(his huge swindle ; so do a dozen Generals, and
half the officers of the Ordnance Department; so
does the Governor of Canada, who was formerly
Undersecretary of War, and the Inspector of the
’Gunpowder Factory, and the Superintendent of
tfie Royal Gun Factory, and the Director
of Artillery, and almost everybody down
to the Gold Stick 'in Wait ing and the
imposing flunkeys of Windsor Castle. Every one
of the rotten instruments of slaughter in which
the safety of the empire will one day depend is
passed by men all of whom know that, its rottenness
would enhance their profits, and in thi3 one depart-
ment atone enough corruption has bjen revealed
to swamp the boasted British navy when the long-
expected emergency arrives, and send it down be-
low tno waves which Britannia, according to the
picturesque old lie with which we are all familiar,
is said to ride. Imperial Federation, should it
ever bs accomplished, only means that Australian
money will go to prop up this great Imperial
fraud ; that we will help to pay for these ships
that cannot float, and these guns that are destruc-
tive, only to those that fire them; and that we
will have a partnership in the system whereby
Imperial officers with salaries of £2OO per annum
keep carriages,* and send their sons to college out
of the money they make by selling tlieir country.
The- British navy—wh'cli is visible because the
great part of it dare not leave harbour —and the
British army —which is invisible because it is
employed in a vain attempt to evict one poverty-
stricken Kerry farmer—are alike honeycombed
with corruption, fraud, incompetence, and royal
favouritism; and the best hope for the country in
the e , ent of war with such a power as France is
that'th'e fleet may keep alloat long enough to gain
time while a real army is being created, and then
may sink where much more costly lumber lias
gone to the bottom of the deep blue sea.
+ —-
Bigotry Dies Hard.
By the irony of circumstance Lord Randolph
Chctiu hill has been recently forced to take the
side of Liberalism in a controversy with the Scot-
tish Protestant Alliance, and were it not for the
supercilious impertinence varied only by caddish
insolence, of his letters,would make agoMappear-
ance in his new character. The appointment of a
Roman Catholic as Secretary of State is the hone
of contention. Tlis Alliance expressed their
objection to this appointment, urging that as
Romanists acknowledge a first allegiance to the
Pope, their constant aim must be the deliverance
of England over to Popery. Lord Churchill’s
replies are not worth quotation ; he had a splendid
chance of making a popular hit, but his conceit
urged him to the exhibition of his own smartness,
which is a very inferior article indeed. All the
argument was oil his side, had he but cared to
use it, These sectarian mummies who occupy
space in a world they cannot comprehend are pre-
vented by their bigotry from perceiving that the
temporal power of the churches has passed for
ever. When, as in the time of Queen Mary,
the prelates were powerful enough to order
that heresy should be considered a capital
offence, it was of much consequence what
faith a man held ; and when James 11. esteemed
a mass more highly than his crown it was also im-
portant that the king and his subjects should
kneel before the same altar. But those times have
finally passed. Two centuries ago tho Pope was
the. most potent man in Europe. What is he now ?
A mere puppet to all but two or three Catholic
nations, and from them even he cannot obtain
obedience. Religion of all the sects was then a
life-guide, and inspiration ; modern sectarian re-
ligion is a fashionable toy to be used to while
away an hour or two on Sunday. ’the religion
which makes for the elevation of main, is more
potent to-day than ever it has been ,in) the course
of English history, but the religion vvltich was
bolstered by the thumb screw, the rafclt, and the
scavenger’s daughter passed away, with the
Stuart dynasty. It is the want of knowledge of
this fact which prompted Protestant Alliance
mummies to object to a Roman Catholic Secretary
of State ; it is the same wilful ignorance or bigotry
of New South Wales electors which enables politi-
cal frauds, and forgers, who wear yellow sashes on
occasion, to disgrace this colony by their ap-
pearance in the Legislative Assembly,
♦
Is St, Jingo in England ?
English Tory journals, led by the Saturday
Review, have discovered that it really does not
matter to the Empire a solitary dump
whether Russia annexes Bulgaria or not, and
that it is quite an unimportant question whether
Turkey maintains its present insolvent indepen-
dence or falls a victim to the voracious appetite
of the Muscovite. The Imperial policy they say
lias been so altered by recent circumstances that
England need no longer attempt to defend India
a t the Balkans ; “ a little island or two in the
Mediterranean will throttle the Dardanelles and
the Bosphorus,” and, therefore, it would -be in-
advisable for English statesmen to worry about
the fate of Bulgaria. The Ministry, on the con-
frary, have, according to recent cablegrams,
decided to resurrect the skeleton of Jingoism,
and heat up a new crusade against Russia. This
variance between Tory journals and Tory states-
men i 3 capable of an easy and sufficient explana-
tion. The latter fire fresh from an electoral vic-
tory ; their party has with Unionists a strong
majority in the House. Disregarding the fact that
their triumph was won by racial jealousy and sec-
tarian bigotry, tho Tories consider that the majority
Wag one of party and policy, and therefore are firm
m the belief that foreign interference, always a
trump card in their play, is still beloved of the
People. . The journalists of the party, on the con-
trary, are not so misled by an exultation in which
they participate to a lesser extent. They know
that the despised proletariat, hitherto ready to
Cos pond eagerly to the battle-call, have gained a
d up - perception of the fact that foreign glory
means perpetuation of home misery; that the
enslavement of foreigners by the feats of British
arms has an indirect but strong and certain ten-
dency'to add new gyves to the slaves in English
mines and workshops ; in fine, that war is a thing
'Which"brings honors to nobles, and misery, desti-
tution, disease, and death, to the “ lower classes.”
*°ry journalists and Tory statesmen alike promul-
SMe what they deem to be a popular policy ; they
have felt the public pulse, and judge its beat with
widely different results. Who is right ? Let
Demos decide.
-4,
Slaves of the Desk.
The Civil servants of N.S.W. are now required to
devote an extra hour per diem to their official
duties, 5 p.m. being the time limiting their
labours. There is, so far as we can see, no reason
why this reform sho'uld not have been made years
ago, and we utterly refuse to sympathise with the
officers deprived of an hour of their wonted
leisure. The superfine gentlemen who now adorn
the public offices find plenty of time to write
Sydney correspondence and do lots of other out-
side work, and some of them are Council
clerks and aldermen. It may be remembered,
too, that when overtime was paid for at very high
rates in the Lands and. other departments, enor-
mous additions to salary were made by some of
the men who now aver that “ it is unfair to ask
them to slave till five.” The work of the average
Civil servant is about I be lightest and least trying
in the comm unity ; it is loss arduous than (bat of
a merchant’s office, less wearisome than that of a
haberdashery store. Yet even under the new con-
ditions the hours are shorter than in either of the
latter establishments. With lengthened hours
the number of Civil servants should certainly be
decreased, and if the decimation is done without
favouritism an immense advantage to the general
public must result.
The Old Story.
Mr. Stoddard W. G. Campbell, paying-teller
of the Bank .of Australasia, Melbourne, was so
popular and possessed of so many sterling quali-
ties, that all who knew him felt real sorrow at the
news that he was £2OOO short in his cash, and that
a warrant had been issued for his arrest. He is
“well-connected,” being a son of the much-
respected Dr. Campbell, and a .brother-in-law of
a noted Victorian Q.C. Campbell’s numerous
friends stood by him manfully, and paid the de-
ficiency, and as it is said that were he sent to gaol
the shock would probably kill his venerable
father, no one can much regret that the man who
is now ruined after an otherwise honorable career
of 20 years has escaped the prison-cell. But there
is another side . to' Campbeli/s ease. Had
his father worn moleskins instead of broadcloth,
would the offer of his friends to refund the money
have ensured the cancellation' of the warrant !
Mo3t emphatically no, there would have been a
howl about “compounding a felony.” The feel-
ings of the fathers of poor people aren’t worth
consideration by the rulc-rs of the land. Not so
very long ago in Sydney a girl who on the clearest
evidence wasshown to have been brutally out raged
was permitted to withdraw her evidence and pro-
ceed no further against her alleged violator, a man
closely related to one of our foremost citizens ;
the very same week, a woman who had been
beaten by her husband, a Redfern workman,
vainly pleaded at the police-court tp bo allowed to
withdraw the charge and go home with him in
peace. The magistrates were inexorable —they
sent the brutal workman to gaol for six months.
It is the old story. The offences of'Mr. S. W. G.
Campbell, curled and scented bank official, are
atoned for by his friends —the officials have mercy
on his poor old father. But there is no official
mercy for the miserable woman who, dying of
heart-disease, tramps through the Sydney rain
and mud, madly Seeking signatures for a petition
that the Governor will spare the- life of her low-
born son.
———-—♦
A HERALD'reporter, who has visited some of the
Chinese furniture-shops in Sydney and the
suburbs, declares in a lengthy article that about
500 Chinese are employed in cabinet-making at an
average wage of £2 a week and board. But the
evidence in support of this latter conclusion
hardly bears analysis. At some shops, for in-
stance, the pay is stated to be from 20s. to £2
per week,” at another from “ 245. to 3G?.,” in
another the rate for skilled labour is quoted as
being “ 30s. per week ; ” while at one factory the
men are said to make £3 per week. It is evident,
therefore, that if there is really so wide a variance
in the rates paid at the different shops, the men
employed must be hound to the separate estab-
lishments, else they would go elsewhere to secure
better pay. The computation of “ average
rates ” must be from the data given largely
assisted by fancy. And it must not be forgotten
that the men have to work 11 hours a day, in-
cluding Sundays and holidays, to make up this
alleged average,, and that the lodging given in
with the pay is not gorgeous, the Mongolian?,
as the Herald reporter says—
“ Sleeping in the queerest places—-under the rafters and in
odd conifers of the premises. Even in the better class of fac-
tories the sleeping rooms resembled the steerage of a ship,
with rows of bunks stretching from one side of a room to the
other, with narrow little aisles for turning.”
Their board is probably akin to their lodging.
Taking one thing with another, we can hardly
credit this average pay of £2 per week. The
Herald man, who has evidently little experience
of the moon-eyed man, has got most of his infor-
mation from the Chinese themselves, and seems
not to' have been aware of the fact that they
are of all liars the most consummate. They
would swear an affidavit on the alleged circula-
tion of the Evening News.
Mayor Young’s jubilee invoice for knives,
flower?, books, and assorted implements,
of grovel proves to be a large one, and
he wants the citizens of Sydney to pay it. This is
an agreeable surprise for the citizens. Even the
cups and saucers out of which the crowd of
jubilee sneaks drank their tea —and a good many
of them did drink their tea out of the saucers—
are not to be paid for out of John Young's
pocket ; neither does he mean to settle up for
that book, the “ Life of her Majesty,” which
was distributed so freely with J. Y.’s autograph
on the title page—a circumstance which led many
to think he had written it and made them chuck
the precious volume into the dust-heap ; nor does
he mean to square up for the new cushion on
which he sat, though that article has now gone
astray, and is being sat upon, we presume, by
some plebeian ; and, in short, a dozen items, from
champagne-openers down, Mr. John Young wishes
to debit to the citizens of Sydney, many of whom
were minus supper and bed on that cold
June night when the costly banquet was
being gushed over and the nominal host
was being praised for hi 3 lavishness with the
property of citizens. The great historic feed, it
appears, was not Mayor Young’s after
all. It was at least partly given by
the people, or it will he when the
accounts are dodged through the Council, which
will not he just yet. And further, partakers of
that historic feed are struck with acute anguish
on discovering that the volume which they threw
at a dog after getting home and which was picked
up in a broken-backed condition in the yard next
morning, was deserving of a better fate, for John
Young did not write it after all. With all these
revelations coming on them in a heap, it is no
wonder the Council described the Jubilee bill as
the “ highest piece of cheek ” ou record.
+
The Sydney Echo, when a question of
solid justice is involved, is a spectacle for the
gods. When anyone escapes hanging, that journal
wallows in woe, and when the sentence of a
criminal is commuted, the penn’orth of wailing
grief which issues from the Echo office is worth
remembering. The release of Patrick Hall who
had served only 20 months out of a 7 years’
sentence for horsestealing has again induced the
Echo to draw the plug from the sin and misery
barrel, and this is what comes out :
"In the case of the man Patrick Hall, the principle
was distinctly affirmed that if a criminal becomes danger-
ously ill, or if there is a probability that he may lose his
reason, he shall be given his freedom. Let it be remembered
that the sole cause why this twice-convicted offender, . .
.... was set at liberty before a third of his sentence had
been completed was because he was suffering from an attack
of illness which, it was believed, might produce serious
results either to his life or his reason. . The thing is so
outrageously unjust that it is hard to believe in its reality."
Just so. But there is another side to the question.
Patrick Hall was released because, in the
opinion of the Government medical authorites, he
was threatened with insanity through an injury
to his head inflicted by a fellow-convict who en-
deavoured with partial success to smash in his
skull with an iron bar. Hall was under a
sentence of 7 years’ confinement that he might do
no harm to others during that period, and the
Government, which locked him up, was bound
also to see that no one did harm to him. The State
failed, however, in its part of the compact, and
it was afterwards decided that Patrick Hall’s
apparently injured brain and weakened reason
might be fairly set off against the remaining 5
years of his sentence, a bargain which prima
facie was decidedly a bad one for the prisoner.
It is absurd to talk as the Echo does of an “ attack
of illness,” unless that, is the Echo’s now name for
a surgical injury resulting from a murderous
assault; and if it is so we shall be happy to hit
that journal over the head any day on its own
terms. An “ attack of illness” is not a criminal
offence yet, even in New South Wales.-
The cases of Williams v. Hall, Morgan
and party, promise to become a cause 'eelebre.
The plaintiff seems to be most determined in his
claims, and has now been granted appeal to
the Privy Council. The statement for presenta-
tion at that tribunal is being prepared by Mr.
Whitehead, solicitor of Rockhampton, who it will
be remembered introduced a new system of jump-
ing without possession, followed by bis advice
in this case. At the same time a select com-
mittee has been moved for in the Queensland
Assembly to make a f.ull investigation into the
original applications of Gordon upon which the
whole case, now involving millions of money,- is
based.
“ Pendragon,” in The Referee, sums up
Adelaide as “ a city of magnificent distances. It
is really : The distances are much more magnifi-
cent than the elope inspections.” He is astonished
at the number of banks in Adelaide, but does not
seem to have stayed there long enough to find out
all about the number of saints in gaol. “ Mel-
bourne,” he remarks, “is really what Adelaide
only pretends-to be. Wo have no finer street in
London than Collins-street, or rather the two
Coliins-streets (East and West), and few finer
buildings. Hero again banks ride roughshod
over everything. The number of banks suggests
a system the like of which is unknown in England
Bankers are very obliging, and will do work for
their clients, the suggestion of which would out-
rage a’joint-stock manager in London.”
The English Salvationists on 4th Septem-
ber started a week of self-denial with a view to
raising the wind and wiping off the debts of the
Harmy. The results are not yet to hand, but it
is announced that the General set the example by
giving up beef and lived on pigs’ trotters during
the fast. A prominent officer “ made a rise ”by
cutting the hair of another prominent officer and
gave the Gd. thus realised to the fund ; a family of
nine gave up everything they could think of, but
their thinking powers were not very extensive ;
one man denied himself an overcoat, and a square
headed Christian denied his wife a new jacket; a
foreigner gave up meat, eggs, butter, and sugar,
and Providence l ewarded him by sending another
man’s hen to lay oa his premises ; and, lastly, a
nigger sent a pair of boots. There is a light and
airy pathos about that shoeless nigger.
A Grafton Chinaman, Ah Smith, complains
re surveyors who are now laying out a railway
line in his district. They go right through every-
thing. If a house stands in their road so much
the worse for the house ; and Ah Smith, not being
acquainted with the ways of a civilised. Govern-
ment, is indignant. Ho says : —“ Bimeby me
workee alongside turnip, cabbagee—one, two,
(Tree fellow come along, drivum stick along cab-
bagee. Me say, ‘ You blighted letch, whaffor
you bleakee cabbagee belongum me ? ’ Him say,
‘Yon go jump in hellee.’ Bimeby, big feller
look through pipe. Bimeby he wave hand belongum
him, and two feller cut down olangc tlee bilongum
me. Me gettum welly angly ; me say, ‘Me
blingum_policeman. Whaffor you bleakum garden
belongum me ? ’ Him say, ‘ You go boilee head.’ ”
We tender our sympathy to Ah Smith.
Several mysterious robberies, in districts
where the moon-eyed Mongol predominates, sug-
gests the idea. that Chinese cheap burglary has
been introduced into Australia. The Asiatic house-
breaker does not come in at the window or the
door, like his clumsy white competitor, and he
leaves no more trace than a bird in the air. He is
simply armed with a short pole, which telescopes
out to any extent; t p this are attached a line and
hook, and by inserting the hideous combination at
an open top-3tory window he can gradually fish
away everything moveable. On a hot summer
night he can often make such a clearance that a
householder has to lie in bed all the next day for
want of pants, or for fear of losing his four-poster;
for John will patiently angle at a spare bedroom
until he reduces the furniture to a mattress. Bar-
ring a screwed-down stove there is nothing he can-
not embezzle with His telescopic fishing-rod.
“ Anonymous letter writing,” says a Vic-
torian writer, “is a growing evil in our colonial
press, and certain phases of it ought to he held up
-to public execration.. That man is no man who
cannot back up his charges with his name. What
mote damnatory social nyctalopy than to sneak
up the back stairs of a printing office with a letter
—or a society dagger, if you like —the perfection
of antistrophe, the shade of the inimical, the
apostrophe of truth, exhibiting the hatchings of
inanition, the vulgarity of innuendo, the animus of
profanity, the teaching of apocrypha, and which
throws mud like a gutter Arab, with no principles
of lex non scripta; entering the seat of judgment
with exsanguineous mien, via pons asinorum,
and quotes pars pro toto, and then pronounces
sentence ; but a Roman would have said of such,
‘ Punica fides ne sutor ultra crepidam.’ Pardon
my trespass.” “Damnatory nyctalopy ” is good.
CORRESPONDENCE
“ 0.0.” : Your friend’s photo. Reminds us of the
Boy Murderer in the Waxworks.. , Constant, Reader”
(Melb.) : We aren’t going to advertise a little'moribund rag
which is mad because it knows that 10,000 copies of .The
Bulletin aresold weekly in Victoria “ Supplement The
chief use of an evening paper is to advertise the weekly
issued from the same oKice. And the chief mission'"of j the
weekly paper is to puff the daily sheet. Their united work is,
of course, purely a dollar-raking 0ne....“ Ji.S.” (Melbouriie):
Too lengthy; we want the essence of the whole matter. In
your case the essence seems to have been omitted “Jus-
titia" : Your heroic lines met with a tragic and seemly fate.
They got burnt....“ J.11.8.”We did get something out of
your screed—a pin, which will most likely be inserted
“Reason” : True. May be able to utilise...." T. Campbell”:
The case may be interesting on the score of its brutality, but
we cannot deal with it...." Ronald” : "Where do prunes
come from ?” The grocery-stores chiefly, as far as our obser-
vation is a guide...." E.M.” (Quirindi): Didn't reach u 5....
“Prorogue Venerable j0ke...." Alice W.” (Manly): Whyte
Melville did not write "Guy Livingstone,” and we have never
before seen it stated that he did. George Lawrence was the
writer... .“U.S.A.”: The fact that a lot of church-people up
your way are exceedingly immoral is not so wonderful as to
be. worth special mention. A host of exceedingly religious
and irreligious people in Sydney are “built that way” t 00...
“ffred.”: Pair verse, but not up to mark this time
“ A.S.”: Your poem is just the kind that a fellow would like
to crib for the purpose of writing it in his best girl’s scrap-
book. .. “ Jestiee” (Grenfell): We would not insert it even
if you gave •£5,000,000 security to cover cost of subsequent
libel action. You may have all our sympathy, but not a line
of space...." X.Y.Z.”: Cuttings will be noticed... "T.H.H.”.
We noticed A. W. Bueknell’s letter in Maitland Mercuby,
and wished that clear-thinking straight-speaking men of hin
stamp were more plentiful “H.M.” (Casino): Very
pathetic, but equally coimnouplaoe " Shareholder": You
ask whether the electric light will ruin the Gas Companies
by lessening the demand for their product. Certainly not.
What has the consumption of ga s to do with the - gas-bills
It is the sort of meter that makes ttic dividends.. , ‘GJ.M. R.
It would probably lie a libel to call a*respectable citizen
member of Parliament.” It would expose ridioule
and contempt, anyhow..." Frondis ”: Your'verses are" “a' bit
off.”.. ."Fernlcaf": Hardly concrete enough for illustration.
Froude is pronounced “Frood,” and Bertie'calls himself
" Barty.” " N.E.G.” : Fair parodies, but**6f«no.’use a
this office...." J.C.H.” : Clever lines worthy of a better sub-
ject “ J.S." : Wenever do publish unless we see fit, there-
fore your kindly advice is somewhat superfluous*...". Hiram
Abiff”: Comment as suggested will appear shortly....
"Shearer ’’(Cobham Lakes, N.S.W.); Your point- is, tint
shearers who accept, and not sqiiatters who offer low wagee,
are responsible for the recent reductions. This is the-pold
story : the selfishness, or poverty, of the men assisting the
cupidity of the masters. The only remedy is that which has
already proved so efficient in other branches of the trade—
the men must unite. Otherwise they will'be conquered in
detachments " H.ICM.” : Thanks. Will probably work it
up....“ Stephen Column” :We have no space available • for
your c0py...." Navvy ” : The point you submit is a difficult
one. Sunday being a diea non it can hardly be legal to col-
lect rent on that day...." J.A.S.” : Not suitable. Your muse
just, touches our standard, but can’t grip it so as to hold 0n...,
“ P.J.H.,’ : We don’t admire Dilke—a man who sold.his
political creed to the Whigs and pawned his personal honour
with the devil... .“Marquis”: The Marquis of Salisbury’s
name is Robert Cecil, mid he succeeded to the title through
the death of his childless elder brother, who was blind...,
“ S. Joel” (Brisbane)*: Simply this—that someone asked in
your name a question which we didn’t feel inclined to
answer " J.8.L.” :On the contrary, we consider the
Queensland Supreme Court’s decision that Mr. Wilson’s
creditors were not entitled to attach the £2OOO slander-
damages recovered by him as an eminently fair one.' The
£2OOO, you see, was compensation for injuries entirely per-
sonal ; it belonged to his private character, not to his trade
or acquired capital. We fail to follow your idea that be-
cause a man owes money, his creditors should be allowed to
fi. fa. his immortal soul " William ” (Bourke-street S.):
Thanks. You sling ink well, and if. you don’t suffer from
dyspepsia, melancholia, jim-jams, marasmus, moon-blasting,
star-blasting, or the devil, please send along something better
than what you jibe at...." James Graves”: G. R. Bibbs
as a'member of the A.S.N. Co. directorate, did not vote for
the employment of Chinese. He voted against it, but was
over-ruled by a majority —“G.E.” : First-elasE "C.S.” :
Your yarn that “the men who carried round the banner
labelled. “ Bread or Work” in frojjit of the procession of
Sydney unemployed, all wore heavy gold watch-ch ains, is a.
pretty good joke. But, all the same, it’s a perjury.. .“Tip”: The
Evening News’assertion that it “ has a larger circulation
than that of the four other Sydney daily papers put together”
is purely imaginative— “ Wairoa ”:No ; the “ bulk ”of the
Sydney “ unemployed ” are not “loafers.” You could pick
several hundred workman-like navvies from their ranks
"Jason”: No, but about 200 years ago, in France, the
houses of criminals were painted orange " Moses " (Mel-
bourne) : Why can’t Dr. Joyce, of Melbourne, enjoy his
cigar and soothe his conscience by calling'’ it a “ burnt offer-
ing.”...." Sydney Town Hall": Any overfed bully
can emphasize his argument and threats by shaking his
huge fist in the face of a man whom he knows to be physi •
oally weaker than himself “ Kent ”: On all questions
concerning the life of Queen Victoria we must respectfully
refer you to the historian Woolcott, whose best address is
Town Hall, Sydney “ Nox” (Balmain): Start not again,
we beseech you, the uncertain bicycle of passion, which leads
only to busters and spills. Arise not in the glimmering azure
of morning to gaze on the opalescent sky, and the radiant
quintessence of interfulgent sunbeams, and the amethystine
blue of pearl-curling smoke floating like a translucent gossa-
mer —and all the rest of it. Drop writing verses and go oil
scraping the pigs’ feet for your master. Else will the dirge-
laden clouds drag their purple cu-ls in a thirsty threnody
over the clothes-line of your parched eminence...." J.P.M,”
(Richmond): Let ua see a sample “P. Ay.” (Mary-
borough, Q.): We would hear from you again. Please
send name and address “J.A.G.”: You write: “Would
you kindly tell me hue the brand is B bloning to.” No,
J.A.G., we can’t tell you who the brand B is belonging t 0..,.
"M. C. Isaacs ”: Good verse, but too exclusively 10ca1....
“ J.C.R.”: Par you send is of general interest "Doyley
Deloy ”: You have a good ear for metre, and should turn out
fair! work, but sample to hand isn’t strong enough for this
journal “W.A.P.”: Wanting in power. The subject
is so trite that he who deals with it must introduce
some novel ideas, or very strong argument... .“EB.”:
You remind us of the guileless Amurrikin citizen, who,
on being shown, in a Continental museum, an old rusty
blade, which he was assured was the identical knife with
which Charlotte Corday finished the blood-thirsty Marat,
innocently asked ' ‘ Whar’s the fork f"..... ‘ Elard ” : There is
a big difference. A gourmet is one who selects, for his re-
fined and cultured delectation, the most choice edible
delicacies of the season : whereas the gourmand is one
whose cast-iron stomach refuses nothing but broken bottles,
and who cares little for the quality of what he eats, pro-
viding the quantity is sufficient to load him to the ears.
Hogs are gourmands, and so are most aldermen "Wan-
derer” (Thargomindah): We will await your next con-
tribution with patient resignation “Hanniball" “C.H.
Givney,” " Charley,” " J.P.R.” (Dalton), "J. Slator” (Auck-
land), “ A.G. ” “ M.G."Constant Reader," “Economist,"
“ J.H.H.,” “ A.H.,” “Stockwhip,” and a host of others.
Awaiting consideration.


The Keferee
A big muster put in an appearance at
Foley’s Hall on Saturday night to witness Mr*
George Seale’s attempt to “ knock out Profes
sor M’Carthy in six rounds. M‘Carthy naturally
travelled on the defensive ticket, which made the
amateur’s task more difficult. In the third round
he had the “ Professor’’ knocked pretty well to a
standstill, but M’Carthy’s undeniable gameness car'
ried him through, and he mutely took his punish,
ment till ordered to shake hands at the termina-
tion of the sixth round. Had M’Carthy fought
as he generally does, making the play, the ama-
teur would have put him in his little cot for a
certainty, but M’Carthy, who is a powerfully-
built fellow, and a “ shifty” boxer, acted
merely on the defensive when he saw
he had no show at fighting the amateur.
Another good bout was the three rounds between
the little wonder Murphy and Jack Fuller.
Giving away some two stone and a corresponding
amount of reach. Murphy gave, and Fuller
received very extensive punishment. Murphy is
certainly a clever and effective boxer, and we
believe he could travel the world over and hold
his own against all comers at the weight. The
boxer with whom Molloy sparred had no show
with the clever Victorian. Molloy is a scientific
boxer of no mean order, and when in good
“nick” he will take a lot of beating from any,
not at the top of the pugilistic tree.
* *
The so-called challenge from the old-time
boxer, of rather fighter, Alf. Jackson, to his
namesake, Peter (the champion), is a farce.
‘‘Stonewall” is old enough to be Peter Jackson’s
father, and as to fighting with skin gloves, it is
not likely the “Professor” will chance a good
business and a lengthened sojourn in Darlinghurst
out of love of obliging the old gentleman, who
is now residing in Bourke.
* *
The Britishers have not left their form in
England. Their first match against 15 of
Adelaide proved an easy thing, Shrewsbury start-
ing the campaign with a level century.
* * *
Thirty Sydney players have been selected
to practice for the match against the Englishmen.
As many of them have not a million to one show,
they are only keeping good men out of their
practice.
* * *
At Double Bay Regatta, rowing men had
the day to themselves, as the wind was too light
to enable any of the sailing craft to finish their
races. Seale and Brett had an easy thing in the
senior double-sculls, which they won from crews
from the Sydney R.C. and Balmain R.C. The
Sydneys, as usual, were represented by a couple
of “midgets,” who, though wonderfully good at
their weight, have no show against two men of
such calibre as the Mercs, provided.
* * *
Said the Nooze in speaking of the Sydney
Driving Park Club Trotting meet“ Trotting, or
•pacing, as they call it in American, is a pastime
which promises to take a good hold on the Aus-
tralian people.” The Yankees don’t call trotting
“ pacing,” the latter being a distinct and faster
gait than the trot. Maud S., the “Queen of the
Turf,” has the fastest trot record of one mile in
2min. B:|sec., made in July, 1885, whilst the crack
American pacer Johnston has covered a mile in
2min. C.jsec.
* *
It is not to be supposed Tom Lees will
now pay his promised visit to America to whip
Sullivan. A Yankee sporting paper gives a por-
trait with ‘ ‘ Tom Lees ” printed under it, but things
have been a bit mixed. The portrait is an excel-
lent one—of Peter Newton.
* * *
For the fifth time in nine years that
keen, straightforward, and honourable Sydney
sportsman, Hon. James White, has won the
V.R.C. Derby. All through the winter months
Trident, the chestnut son of Robinson Crusoe and
Cocoanut, has been at the head of the betting
quotations, irrespective of reports that the speedy
Victorian, Volcano, was his master. The scene
on the hill, lawn, and fiat, as old Fred. Johnson
escorted Trident back to scale, almost beggars
description ; surging sections of excited humanity
were hustling one another in all directions, shout-
ing hurrahs, and waving handkerchiefs ; and
cheers were repeated vociferously when the
anxious “ all right” was pronounced by the
exacting clerk of scales. Then followed the cere-
mony of decorating the victor with the insignia at-
tached to the prize-money. This was performed
by one Harry Smith, a direct descendant of the
importer of the first donkey to Victoria. Harry
got through the ceremony faultlessly, but at all
future Derbies we hope to see this formality
entrusted to the Governor’s lady.
* * *
When Chesham rounded the turn for home
on Saturday last in the V.R.C. Derby with fully
a dozen lengths’ lead of Trident, the Hebrews
roared with dolight that “ der faverite vas be ton.”
Old Semites who hobbled along, book in hand,
assisted by a stick, forgot all about their gout and
danced nimbly; Joe Thompson endeavoured to
speak to Alf. Josephs on the subject, but could
only articulate, “ A1 —A1—Alf., he’s b —b—be —;
no he ain’t, be G—! ” ; the fairy-like tread of
Mo-jsey could be heard on the asphalt pro-
menade as he quietly mumbled to himself, “I’ve
got a skinner! ” and the Barnard family began to
get their settling-sheets ready. But ere the
last furlong post was roached Chesham was two
lengths behind Trident, and the Chosen Race wept
bitterly. The Gentile Sabbath saw shin of beef
substituted for roast turkey.
* * *
Twenty started for the Coburg Stakes at
Flemington on Saturday. Anticipating that per-
haps one out of the score would be “stiff,” the
stewards, with that shrewdness which appears to
characterise all race-stewards, determined to spot
the sinner. But nothing came of their black-
tracker manoeuvres, although on enquiry from the
jocks, it was discovered that no less than nine of
them finished fourth,
* * *
Mr. Andrew Town has a really wonderful
brood mare in old Atholine, who has thrown dur-
ing her career at the stud, two Maribyrnong
Plate winners, one second, and one third ; and
but for an unfortunate accident the record would
this day be three firsts and one third. During the
race for the rich prize on Saturday last, Lord Car-
ington’s filly, Esperance, when leading Hunting-
tower half a length, suddenly bolted towards the
abbatoirs taking the latter with her. Mr. Cooper’s
colt lost fully ten lengths by the mishap, yet at
the finish of the spurt was only beaten half a
head, and had the winning post been two strides
further ahead, he would have won. It may be
mentioned that the first of the Darebins (Hunting-
tower) made his appearance in public in this
race, and a creditable one it was too.
* * *
A dream took us to the Melbourne Cup,
not our own dream, no, our Innocent Slumbers
being merely golden visions of angels hovering
around and whispering “ Come away”—the angels
never whisper “ good things” or “ dead snips.” We
might dream away the remainder of our existence
without getting so much as the ghost of a straight
griffin, but we had heard about the miraculous
dream which changed the peaceful current of a
N.S.W. farmer’s life. That farmer dreamt that he
was again a boy at school, an apple-cheeked urchin
with pockets full of toffee and alley-taws, in front
of him was a black-board and over that black-
board was a crimson curtain ; an unseen agency
lifted the curtain, and written upon the board in
chalk, round-hand text, was “Trenton wins
the Melbourne Cup,” We don’t know how
many times the farmer dreamed that dream,
or what he took for supper, but we do know that
he converted all his property, some £7OO worth,
into hard cash, and planked down the pieces on
Trenton. Aft er disposing of his worldly possessions
in this unconventional way the farmer came to
Melbourne and haunted Trenton’s stable ; the
trainer even took an affectionate interest in the
man, and learned to read him as a kind of celestial
messenger bringing tidings of a great “cop.” A
dear friend of ours, perdition catch his soul,
knew the dreamer. He gave us the story with all
its alluring details. It fascinated us; the sublime
faith of this unhappy wretch who could risk his
all upon the New Zealand horse was shared by
ourselves, we determined to give half-a-sovereign a
show and take the consequences. We went to the Cup
by train, and many a true gallant spirit elected
to adopt the same means of conveyance. At first
it was our intention to take a ticket at one of the
little sentry-boxes erected under the post-office
piazzas, but the sight of an old gentleman being
hurled violently down the stone steps for trying
to anticipate his proper turn gave us pause.
We reckoned that our proper turn would come on
in about two hours’ time, so elected to secure our
brief at Spencer-street station. Even as early as
11.15 there was such a pushing and crushing and
a gnashing of teeth at that station as never was,
but we persevered, and after getting a ticket and
2s. short change we made for a doorway which
was’beseigcd by less of struggling humanity than
the others ; that was the entrance for ladies,
and gentlemen with ladies. The myrmidon
at the door challenged us. We were
equal to the emergency; kissing our hand to two
sweet things in canary and blue looming in the
distance, we said, “ With you in a minute, dar-
lings,” and passed through. There were only 19
people in the carriage that bore us to Flemington,
and barring a scarcity of air and a painful sensa-
tion of asphyxia, the journey was exceedingly
pleasant. Arrived at the scene of action it was
evident that the attraction of a stand on the
summit of the hill had drawn off a number of
people who have patronised the grand-stand in
other years. At 12 o’clock the latter edifice was
not so closely packed but what another one or two
might have found a seat. Still if not so full as a
C.M.G. after a banquet, it was full enough.
Taking a little preliminary canter along the
terrace we were struck by the airy fairy aspect of
the ladies. White dresses predominated—not rich
white dresses —no poems in Indian muslin and
lace, but just sensible “ cut-and-coroe-again” cos-
tumes, which would probably be in the wash-tub
on Wednesday, and come out all fresh and smiling
for Saturday’s Steeplechase. Many of the women
in white had nailed a bit of pale-blue ribbon to the
tops of their parasols, and were sporting the
favorite’s colors on the cheap. The gubernatorial
crowd had not arrived at this time ; as we wanted
to see them badly we waited at the end of the
Terrace with a beaming heart. Standing here,
we were struck by the generally shag-bag aspect
of the carriages rolling into the members’ reserve,
The same feature of the show saddened us last
year, but on this occasion the traps were shag-
baggyer than usual. A couple of drags, indifferently
horsed, stood out in bold relief against the back-
ground of seedy buggies and barbarous barouches.
His Excellency the Governor did not drive up to
the point where we awaited him. The vice-regal
equipage came dashing along the course in a kind
of imitation “ Ascot state,” and mounted troopers
cleared the way. It was very exciting ;we rushed
across the lawn in time to see Lady Carington step
daintily down from the box seat; her boots we
observed were number two, and she wore —attend
to this ladies —a sort of fawn-coloured dust cloak,
from beneath which peeped a pearl-coloured satin
costume, with some black bows on it. Maize was
on her bonnet, and in her hand a parasol. Lady
Loch smiled approvingly from a dress of a colour
known to the sex as heliotrope. It is a
horrible colour, and we hope we may not
look upon its like again more often than
can be helped. Three minutes were devoted
to grovel when the quality alighted from
their drag. When they marched across to the
lawn to the box reserved for the salt of the earth,
one man, probably lured by the V.R.C. authorities,
cried “ Hurrah ” in honor of Sir Henry Loch and
party, but as the popular enthusiasm was confined
to himself he dried up and seemed sorry he had
spoken. We were grieved to observe that Lord
Carington hardly looked so young and blooming
as in the old days when he was the pride and
ornament of many high-toned London resorts.
We had not previously seen his lordship since he
honored the equator by a crossing of it. It struck
us that he had come out to Australia for the sake
of his Queen and his constitution. Amid the pre-
vailing anxiety to get a glimpse of Carington the
two other governors passed unnoticed. Sir
William Robinson looked as well as eould be
expected, and the bachelor governor of Tas-
mania looked at the girls. We saw him
deliver himself of three vice-regal winks in
superior style. The Hurdle Race started the
agony, and was remarkable for the facts that the
favourite won and nothing fell over. We must
plead guilty to liking something to fall over, so
the race wearied us. Then there was the Rail-
way Handicap with nothing backed by the public
except Che3ham. If his Derby form meant any-
thing ;it meant that Chesliam must win. How-
ever, he did not. Then there was an hour and a
quarter’s interval while the lions fed. We had
brought down our little sandwich in our hat, so
we devoted a quiet half-hour to inspecting
Trenton. We found him standing like a lamb
in his clothes, decorated with a jaunty
sprig of yellow jessamine. Dream or no
dream, he is the most racing-like looking
quadruped that ever broke a backer. We
felt as confident as the other poor fellow, and
took the odds to the extent of another 10s. Theie
was time to do the lawn before the great event.
We did it. The gaudy grandeur of former days
has departed. Promenaders are fewer than they
used to was. A woman with three yards of satin
trailing behind her like a serpent in the wilder-
ness, likes to walk about: the same woman in a
short costume don’t like to walk about. Again
we say that the glory of Flemington lawn has de-
parted, and thereby hangs a tale. Signora
Majeroni looked fetching in olive green, and Mrs.
Donald Wallace appeared heavenly in light
slate and gold horse-shoes. The horse-shoes
were embroidered on her dress. There is
nothing else to say about the lawn except that
there were two Chinamen on it, for the first time
in the history of Victoria. The preliminary canter
for the Cup was a very tame affair. The weather
was hot, and few of the jockeys cared to put their
chargers along quicker than a tram-car. Trenton,
we particularly noticed, hardly moved out of a
walk ; for good looks he took the cake of the
ethers. Ben Bolt, Britisher, Malua, Silvermine,
and Arsenal seemed like giving their backers a
good run for their infatuation. The start was
punctual to time. A hoarse shout from the hill;
never so thronged as this year, a sobbing groan
from the stand, and a mixture of each from thy
flat announced that the trouble had commenced.
Silvermine led past the stand, and Recall kept
company. Neither of Mr; White’s trio sh owed
prominently until Hexham took up the runhing about
a mile from home. Meanwhile Grace Darl-
ing and St. John were bidding the field adieu
at the wrong end. Trenton lay right off until
approaching the final turn, and then thi hope of
the dreamer commenced to thread through his
horses. Arsenal and Silvermine showed most
prominently a quarter of a mile from home, then
came Trenton gaining inch by inch; Silver-
mine knocked under to the great horse, but
Arsenal had something in hand with his bare half
length victory. There was a momentary shout of
joy as Arsenal passed the post; a few misguided
creatures mistook his colours for those of lsonomy.
When the numbers went up there was much
gloom, the general public had lost, and a good
many bookmakers had lost. The few backers who
won big sums were speechless with pleasure.
Even in the awful moment of our personal disap-
pointment we found time to drop a tear for the
farmer who saw Belshazzar-like that fatal writing
on the blackboard. He must console himself by
remembering that if Trenton had won, he
himself would certainly have gone mad; as it
is, he can commit suicide. Taking a strell
in the paddock after the Cup, we observed
that Trenton had been liberally spurred, and was
bathed in sweat. Silvermine looked passing
warm too, but Trident was not nearly so knocked
about as after his Derby victory. The disgraced
favourite had hardly turned a hair. After
moralising over the vicissitudes of turf life,
we turned our back upon the seene, and joined a
party of crest-fallen fellow-colonists in a railway-
carriage. We compared notes on our misery ;
somebody said that only the Sydney people had
won. We enquii-ed if he thought Tiie Bulletin
had pulled off much. He gave a reassuring
answer, and we went home feeling more com-
fo: table.
* * *
The weakest bat in the Shaw-Shrewsbury
Eleven is Sherwin, the wicketkeeper. Since
Alfred Lyttelton lost his form the Englishmen
have never had a representative wicketkeeper
who could be relied upon for a deoent score. In
this respect Blackham and Jarvis stand head and
shoulders over such as Pilling, Sherwin, Hunter,
and Co.
* * #
Three of sculler Hanlan’s brothers died
of consumption ; one had his skull injured, be-
came insane, and committed suicide. The fifth is
just dead, and two are still living.
An official in a Sydney Building Society
quite recently annexed a few odd hundreds, but
as he was exceedingly well-connected he has been
williecampbelled, and no prosecution will ensuo.
“How He Died, and Other Poems,” is
the title of the volume which Messrs. Turner and
Henderson, of Sydney, are publishing for Mr. J.
Farrell. The book, which is eagerly looked for by
Mr. Farrell’s legion of admirers will be out before
Christmas.
The “ Escaped Nun ” has been grinding
her glorified pestle and mortar at Lismore
(N.S.W.) to a jubilee of uncertificated lunatics,
and has got a gorgeous free “ ad.” written in gore.
The whole town has been painted red, and as a
consequence “the Loard ” has got the glory, the
escaped female has got the cash, and the deluded
Orange and Catholic fools, who assembled to fight
over this specie-devouring lady, have got the
broken heads and the bruised nose 9 for their
share. It is hardly needful to say that the ’cute
lecturess has all the best of the bargain. For
many months she has been travelling Australia
on the ready-money stump, till people have begun
to grow weary of paying to hear her shady yarns,
and their thoughts have wandered to another
holy “escaped” individual who scooped the
Protestant pool some years ago, and then swamped
his pile by bucking against three aces and a pair
of kings ; but ju.it at this crisis in her fortunes
the frantic Catholics and Orangemen of Lismore
have started her in busines as a saintly martyr
and given her a new lease of prosperity. The
Romanists swore to stop the constant stream
of abuse levelled at their faith, and
a mob assembled “ with bludgeons under
their waiscoats,” according to a lynx-eyed Hehald
reporter, while the bruising Protestants also
gathered to shed their blood where they had
already shed their cash. “ Heavy riding-whips,
clubs, broken palings, horse-shoes, and revolvers ”
were flourished on all sides, and a horde of un-
sexed women banded themselves together to pro-
tect their beloved nun, prepared to sink their
womanhood and fight in the streets or anywhere
else as occasion required, on her behalf. And
amid all these seething passions the escaped indi-
vidual grabbed her cash-box and held her ground.
The suggestion that she should leave the town
was met with derision. There was a lecture to bo
delivered, and there was gate-money to be raked
In ; the wild excitement that she had aroused
ensured a good attendance, and it were better
that a score of people should be butchered
than that the lecture and the gate-money should
be sacrificed. The Protestant and Catholic clergy
of the district worked hard and ceaselessly in
their efforts to prevent bloodshed, but the woman
whose presence had roused the insensate mob to
madness declined to move her escaped anatomy
from the town, though Lismore was in a state of
siege and in all probability life depended on her
forbearance. Sensible Protestants have long ago
voted Miss O’Gorman an unspeakable nuisance,
and wish, for the sake of peace and decency, that
she were wheeling her Protestant barrow among
the saints above ; but, unluckily, so long as
Orangemen are willing to pay for her seedy
convent stories her absence is a blessing that is
past hoping for. By good fortune alone her per-
formance at Lismore has so far been unaccom-
panied by actual slaughter; it is hard to say if
such good fortune will occur again.
THE TIMARU POISONING CASE.
HALL (THE POISONER.)
MISS HOUSTON.
Thomas Hall, the Timaru (N.Z.) poisoner, is the son of a local J.P., and nephewof an Ex-Premier of
New Zealand. He is a rather good-looking fellow of about 33, and up to the time of his arrest
was quite a star of Timaru society, visiting at the most exclusive houses, and adorning the most
select circles. To him was recently married Miss Kate Cain, the charming 24-year-old daughter of
a Captain Cain, and in due time a child was born to them, Miss Margaret Houston, from the local
hospital, acting as nurse. Mrs. Hall was, however, so long in “ coming round ’ that Dr. MTntyre
became suspicious, and at last discovered that his patient was suffering from antimonial poisoning.
Hall and Miss Houston were immediately arrested. The proofs of his guilt were so strong that he
never had any hopes of acquittal, and was convicted and sentenced to imprisonment for life on
the 13th October, but Miss Houston was acquitted of all complicity, and a public testimonial in
her favour has been started by sympathisers. Abundant motive for the crime was discovered, for
Mrs. Hall’s life was insured for £6OOO, a sum that would have enabled him to hide a series of
forgeries with which he has since been charged. Since the proof of this attempted poison-
ing, the body of Captain Cain (the father-in-law), who died somewhat suddenly soon after the
wedding, has been raised, and the result of an examination of the stomach has been to raise Cain
against Hall, as antimony-poisoning is shown to have been the cause of death. A former partner
of Hall’s, Mr. S. H. Tate, who died under circumstances then taken as indicative of suicide, is also
to be exhumed for medical examination. The strangest part of the present case is Mrs. Hall’s re-
fusal to accept the evidence of her husband’s guilt. She still asserts his innocence, and expressed
such reluctance to appear against him that her evidence was dispensed with, and the crime
proved by means of other testimony,
A Veteran of the Press.
Mr. F. C. Brewer, sketched on another page of
this issue, stoops but little beneath the weight of
his sixty years. Born in 1826, he came to Sydney
eight years later, and after receiving such
education as his father in those years of famine
and disaster was able to bestow upon him became
an apprentice in the composing-room of the
Sydney Monitor. Since 1836 his years have been
spent in various newspaper offices, but the major
portion of his life has been devoted to the Sydney
Herald. Night-editor of that paper for fourteen
years, he has also been employed as operatic critic,
sub editor, editor of the Echo, and manager of
the Herald London office. He is still attached
to the staff of the latter paper, and seems likely
(despite a recent illness from which he has now
nearly recovered,) to wear literary harness for the
next twenty years.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Theatre Royal—“ The Sorcerer and Trial by Jury'" p. J 5
Alhambra Music Hall—Minstrelsy
Petersham, Botany, &c.—Lynch Family Bell
ringers , „
Academy of Music—“Spsons” „
New Opera House—" As You Like It”
The “Green Lanes of England” called
together a good house at Sydney Royal Standard
last Saturday, every kind of larrikin whom we
ever met being present, as well as a few new
animals who seemed to be fresh from the woods.
Two of these created a little amusement in the
dress circle, where they insisted on keeping their
felt hats on their wooden heads through the per-
formance, and when a brawny official sent the
headgear flying with a violent smack they called
him in an undertone. An
ancient baldhead, whose countenance was marked
by that speechless ferocity which characterises
the domestic hen, then took up the parable, and
we lost a whole dramatic murder in watching his
gyrations. The “Green Lanes of England,”
as we gather from the programme, is a
joint work, one of the authors having written
the ruffians in the big boots, while the other
penned the comic tailor ; as for (he remaining cha-
racters they are sloshed in anyhow. The principal
of these are Margaret Wheatstone, a gentlemanly
female in woman’s clothes ; her lover, a skunk
from the briny ocean, who passes as being vir-
tuous because he is such a miserable wallowing
cur that no one gives him credit for pluck enough
to be vicious ; and Gentleman George, the ragged
Deus ex Machina of the story, who always turns
up at the right moment. This latter is a truly
noble character when he is unsober; he is “ related
to a Jook.” and apropos of nothing in particular,
he recites the “ Charge of the Light Brigade ” in
the voice of a gin- soaked stentor.
* * *
The plot of the drama is the same old bald
sham that we have met so often. A confiding
woman has been betrayed by the skunk from the
ocean, and his heart being as small as his gloves
are large, he leaves her for five years to bear the
burden of her secret. His father, of course, is the
°ld pachyderm who has done duty in
f “I® such dramas already, and like all stage
nthor s of the bulgy English school he curses the
tserable broken-down girl when her sin is re-
csa, * ttn d easts her off. Her betrayer finds at this
wis that he cannot redress her wrong because he
as a wife already; he had been in the habit of getting
a i>:i ed occa3 l° n ally and had lost the run of things
ittle, but the author even yet sticks to his pur-
Xh* 6 , mft k' n K a hero out of this individual,
b 61 ; e _i« a murder somewhere about here,
In * s . the wrong woman who is assassinated.
yy k® third act things take a turn for the better.
e hnow they are coining round when we find a
chivalrous tramp musing in a winter storm, and
singing a plaintive ditty about—
“ The snow, the snow, the uggeley snow,"
and this tramp ultimately drags the chief sinner
to justice, and puts matters right. Nobody,
however, seems particularly grateful to him, and
so far as the drama reveals his fortunes he is left
in rags to complete his weird ballad about the
snow.
* * *
The part of Gentleman George suits Mr.
Dampier well. It is not a good character, but
it is the bett in the piece, and it was exceed-
ing!} well played : but we would ask what in the
name of the Irish Question has the “ Charge of the
Light Brigade” to do with the “Green Lanes
of England ’ ? Mr. Edmund Holloway was the
pachydermatous parent (with curse), and his
accent was awful; Mr. Stoneham was the mean
skunk from the sea, a character which he would
have made respectable if he could, but there was
no scope for anything of the kind. Mr. Leston
appeared as a dreario-comic tailor who had no
mortal business in the piece ; and Messrs. Booth-
man and Stark, as two roughs, looked so hideously
ruffianly that they must be set down as a success.
Lastly, Miss Dampier made a tolerable Margaret
Wheatstone. There is, of course, a good deal of
weeping in this p?rt; we have never seen Miss
Dampier in a dry character yet, and for our own
part we are getting a little tired of the “ distressed
female,” but the pit appreciate it, and if the dis
tressed female must be kept before the public, i
is satisfactory to see the work so well done.
'/V* -/V" 'TV* 'A'
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Mus-
grove carry their consideration for the public to
height that may justly be considered extreme
Knowing the discomfort that inevitably ?„rises
from crowded houses during this hot weather
they billed the “ Sorcerer ’ and “ Trial by Jury ’
for a fortnight, and the natural result was that
the extreme rarity of the audience in tho second
week caused a pleasant coolness to pervade the
house. “ Mascotte,” the final operatic production
of the season, is to follow on Saturday.
■7V* *7v' '7v
The Sydney Gaiety, under the auspices of
the Faust Family, is not alarmingly overpopu-
lated. And this is a matter for moderate regret,
for the present programme is variegated, and
vivacious. The least attractive item is a
“ sketch ” called “Poison.” This poison, intended
probably to kill, just fails to carry out the
intention because the audience get too much of
it, with the common result in such cases, that it
only makes them feel sick. A set-off to this
atrocity is the marble statuary which never fails
to take well and give pleasure to all. (This last a
neat little phrase evolved from our store of
originality). The microscopic Faust girls, infant
prodigies in their way, are a feature of the show,
and perform with phenomenal cleverness. We
are not fond of infant prodigies, hut our whole
heart, or at least all that is left of it, wells out
thesewards. Which is all the space the Gaiety
can have this week, for we must needs write of
autre chose,— which is French for “ other shows.”
#-Y- W- W- s
vv- W 'A'
“As You Like It,” at Sydney Opera
House,-is heralded by a dozen lines of commenda-
tory advertising, as if Shakespeare were a
liver pill, or a corn plaster, or a mixture (to be
well shook before took) which requires to be
puffed into the notice of a discriminating public.
The comedy is nightly greeted by crowded houses,
and Miss Jenyns as Rosalind has achieved another
success, though, perhaps, hardly so marked a one
as in the character of Parthenia. There is a con-
siderable lack of geography in this comedy, as in
many others which Shakespeare wrote, and it is
difficult to fix the location of Duke Frederick’s
dominions, though after a glance at this potentate
we conclude that it does not matter much
where he is quartered—any place is good enough
for him. That he is a usurper is quite evident,
for his accent is either Scotch or Irish, and he is
reigning somewhere on the continent of Europe
but that is a mere detail and it does not do to be
too darned particular. He rises in the air with
a hop, like a rooster about to crow, when he
banishes Rosalind from his court, and then to our
great relief this very ordinary Duke disappears
for a time from the scene. Miss Alice
Deorwyn makes a charming Celia, though she
suffers a little from comparison with the fair
Rosalind; and Mr. W. J. Holloway, as Orlando, also
suffers from something or other. He is at his best
when whittling a club in the third act, and pasting
up affectionate handbills in the forest; he is at his
worst after the wrestling scene, when he gets
festive on the strength of his victory and sets him-
self up as a work of art for the inspection of the
Duke, who looks at him like a virtuoso examining a
cracked Queen Anne tea-pot. Mr. A. Norman, as
the other Duke, is pretty good ; Mr. Charles
Holloway makes an excellent Touchstone, and
Mr. Hodson is bald. Mr. Vernon Reid was
engaged, according to the programme, “ to Give
Due Effect to the Vocal Music,” and he does it;
and lastly, Miss Essie Jenyns, as Rosalind, makes
good amends for all shortcomings. The scenery,
according to the hand-bill, is “ magnificent,” and
we never contradict a handbill when we can help
it, for the w'retched bill always gets the last word.
4 t CJ ~ #
Spoons has again dug up its remains
from the lonely tomb and placed itself on the
boards at Sydney Academy, where it sits in state
like a dried-up bullock on a dusty plain 100 miles
f rom the nearest watorholc. If this comedy were
played backwards with the middle left out and
the beginning turned upside-down it might even
now be made into a passable funeral, but no
milder measures could have any affect on it. It
is too thickly caked with stupidity to be made
into a sermon without hopelessly blasting the col-
lection ; it is too incoherent to be recited in Par-
liament by a stonewalling Parkesite and passed
off as a speech on the “ heducation hact; ” and it
can’t be used as a puff for a shin-plaster without
proving detrimental to business. We would say
more about it but we fear lest we might be be-
trayed into a just severity, so we will pause.
AE W- AE AE
A __ vv _ *7V -7V ■TV'
Sydney Alhambra started with a new
programme on Monday night, including a lot of
business of the usual kind and by the usual per-
formers. W. B. Warner and the Riley Brothers
are among the pillars of this dramatic edifice of
“ refinement without vulgarity.”
m, # # # #
The attendance at the sixth promenade
concert in Exhibition Building 611 Saturday night,
though not as large as the quality of the pro-
gramme demanded, was still sufficient to warrant
the belief that Sydney people are really acquiring
a civilised taste for melody. There even seems
to be some reason to doubt whether the nigger
minstrel is now, in popular estimation, the only
true exponent of the gospel of harmony. On this
occasion Miss Cowley landed a heap more laurels
to be put with the pile she has already acquired,
and Mons. Kowalski concussed the ivories with
Kowalskian effect. Mr. Hallewell and Mr. Searl
were there, and, as usual, all there.
Minnie Palmer will probably play only a
short season in Melbourne before making her
triumphal entry into Sydney. By the way, the
rumour of her marriage to Mr. Rogers turns out
to be too true. It is well that young Australia
should know the worst.
#AE AE AE
'TV" '7V VV
“ Human Nature ” is realising the trium-
virate’s fondest anticipations at Melbourne Royal.
Blood and thunder seemqd to have lost its attrac-
tive power at this house. Well-mounted and well
played “ drammers” have recently been received
with enthusiasm by empty benches. But lo ! one
touch of “Human Nature” makes the whole
town kirn, and business is likely to continue im-
mense until the mad infatuation of the populace
demands the production of a pantomime.
AE AE AE
"A* w w
Dr. Lynn, the world-renowned presto !-
dig-a-tater, opened his hanky-panky entertainment
in Melbourne last Saturday (30th). The doctor
has brought with him the latest sensation—a
vanishing Lady. A word about this phantom fair
one next week.
*AE AE AE
TV '/V* *7V*
• The Federal Minstrels and the Paynor
Brothers are tripping it merrily at St. George’s
Hall, Melbourne. Novelties for Cup week are
“Jim the Penman,” at the Bijou, and “ A Ruined
Life,” at the Alexandra. Messrs. Maltby and St.
Maur have proved an unexplainable frost.
AE AE AE AE
■7v“ '/v* 'A* Tv*
The following notice is stuck up at the
entrance of an American theatre :—“ No passes
given to deadheads. Do not take the trouble to
ask for them. In those days there were no passes
given. Search the Scriptures. ‘ Thou shalt not
pass ’ (Num. xx. 18). ‘ Suffer not a man to pass
(Judges iii. 28). ‘ None shall pass ’ (Isaiah xxxiv.
10). ‘ This generation shall not pass ’ (Mark xiii.
30). ‘ Though they roar, yet they cannot pass ’
(Jeremiah v. 22). ‘So he paid the faro thereof
and went’ (Jonah i. 3).”
AE AE AE AE
•7V* "Tv 'A* TV
Miss Carrie Swain, the clever young ac-
tress who recently concluded a 55 weeks’ tour
though the United States, arrived in Sydney by
the li.M.S.S. Australia last week. She has come
over just to sample the country, and has no finan-
cial intent regarding it Dr. Jefferis had a good
house on Sunday night for the third performance
of his “ Christian Socialism ” series. There are
few better gaugers of the public taste, and when
he runs anything it is certain to be a go. Change
of programme shortly The Lynch Family have
abandoned the roaring lion role for a time, and
returned to their lair. They want a rest ; so does
the Australian public, it can’t be always shilling
out to them. They open again next week though
in Botany and Petersham Miss Staunton, who
is reported by New Zealand critics to be chock full
of musical genius, was beneficiare at Abbott’s
Opera House, Auckland, on the 15th October. A
large attendance leads to the supposition that the
benefit was a profitable one. Miss Staunton longs
for other worlds to conquer, so is about to seek an
engagement on the Australian lyric stage
Wybert Reeve met with discouraging biz. during
his Auckland season, and has gone on to Napier
The Wyburd company, which includes John
L. Hall and “ Jimmy ” South, were to open at the
Opera House, Auckland, about the Ist November
with “His Natural Life.” The Criterion
Theatre, Sydney, will probably open on Boxing
night with “ Falka.” The stage is 58ft broad,
and sitting accommodation is provided for 1400
persons. Mr. John Solomon is sole owner.
BRIEF MENTION.
Up to the present date, the N.S.W. rail-
way Irauderies trouble has occupied 72 days. Tha
Deluge consumed only 40, but possibly tha
evidence in that case was more conclusive.
Rev. Browne, President of the Victorian.
Congregational Union, says that dolts and fools
aren’t wanted in Parliament. True, O Browne
But they don’t go there—they go to the pulpit. J 3
is the rogue who goes to Parliament.
In Temora, a miner was run in for singing
averse of “Rule Britannia,” and charged nex;
day with drunkenness. Evidence proved con
clusively that the man was sober. Probably th
officer thought a man must be drunk who declarec.
that “ Britons never shall be slaves.”
If the Christians of Sydney can stop tear
ing each other’s hair over a reredos for about fivo
minutes, they may be glad to learn that the Abys
sinian Church is going to unite with the orthodox
Russian Communion. This is about the same a
if Dr. JefFeris were to unite with the Mormons
and then the whole lot turn cannibals.
A Melbourne man suggests that the Pope
should be employed to conduct the irrigation
works on the Murray, because if he were to damn
that river one-fourth of the people at least woulc.
believe it was damned, while if Deakin dammed ii;
and a flood came nobody would believe in his dan:.
at all. There seems to be some reason in this.
“ Why don’t you lay your Sydney streets
out properly?” said a S.A. Mayor, as he wend
for his 72nd oyster, with just a squeeze of lemon,
during one of the recent Jubilistic socials. To
which the “Douglas” Young promptly replied.
“ Well, if our streets were as dead as yours, we’d,
have ‘ laid them out ’ and buried them ten yearn
ago.”
According to a recent N.S.W. Parlia-
mentary paper,it was Captain Cook who discovered.
Australia. We are glad to learn this fact, for we
fancied hitherto that it was Parkes, K.C.M.G.,
and that that was why he gave himself such,
confounded airs. If ’Enry did not discover
Australia we would like to know why he should,
elevate the horn of worldly pride as he does.
Speaking of the reredos in St. Andrew’s
Cathedral, the Evening News says: “Every
innovation does more harm by its novelty than it
does good by its utility.” This, we reckon, is
about the most comprehensive blast on record,
for everything was an innovation once, Alfred
among the rest. Only there wasn’t much novelty
about him, and he doesn’t seem to have done any
particular good by his utility if he has any.
At Shepparton (Vic.) they don’t do things
by halves. Recently, when the C.P.S made up his
mind to depart, they subscribed not less than
£7 15s. “as a slight recognition,” &c. A banquet
followed the presentation, and the guest, noticing
die tears of his entertainers, made the question of
irrigation a prominent feature of his speech. This
little affair rominds us of a similar ceremony in
N.S.W., when the benefleiare who received £2
12s. 6d., returned thanks in an eloquent oration
which closed with a plaintive enquiry as to
whether they “ couldn’t make it three quid.”
The two great Norfolk Island pines in
Sydney Botanic Gardens were transplanted to
their present location from Government Rouse,
Parramatta, in 1817—two years after the battle
of Waterloo.
The N.S.W. artillerymen are obviously
improving in their gun-practice. They can now
aim at the Pacific Ocean and yet escape hitting
the South Head lighthouse-keeper, and with a
little more experience it is expected they will be
able to hit the briny deep every time. Then the
Russian had better turn his thin end to our dogs
of war, and make himself as small a target as he
can, else he may be struck when he least expects
it. The South Head lightkeeper, by-the-bye, is
grumbling because a 141 b. shell just missed his
head. But then some men are never satisfied.
TRULY MARVELLOUS.
Cullinga, N S.W., Sept. 24, 1886.—1 have
suffered more or leiS with kidney and liver disease
over 25 years, and feel it my bounden duty to God
and man to testify to the value of Warner’s safe
cure and Warner’s safe pills. My urine used to
come from me six or eight times in the night, and
same during the day, especially in cold and change
able weather. I could not sleep for giddy head,
foggy signs before my eyes, a leeling like ice runn-
ing along the top of my head, great pain from the
kidneys and on each side of my stomach, urine
full of tube casts. About fifteen months ago I be-
came so bad 1 could not void my urine, followed
by severe vomiting, lasting from 6to 25 hours. I
became a mere skeleton. I had consultation and
doctored with three different physicians, which
resulted in doing me good for a short time, and
then the disease would return worse than before.
I then sent for the fourth doctor, and I feel I can-
not do him justice in giving him too much praise,
as he did his utmost to ease and cure me, and I
feel yet I have every confidence in him. He gave
me medicine which eased me for a short time, used
his instruments, but could not get any urine from
me, as there was none in my bladder. It never
came down from the kidneys. After being twenty-
six hours without voiding urine, I was put in a
hot bath, and the urine sweat out of me, and for
six or seven months I was relieved of the urine in
this way. At the end of this time I called in
another physician, equally as good as the former.
They held a consultation together, and said I had
Bright’s disease of the kidneys very bad. They
used the instruments, but to no purpose. They
gave me medicine which afforded temporary
relief; then I became worse than ever again. At
this time I was very weak, taking so many sweat-
ing baths, and one Saturday night a mist came
before my eyes, and I went off in a faint, and
thought my last moment in this world had come.
The following Monday a friend persuaded me to
try Warner’s safe cure. One dose stopped my
vomiting, and I have not vomited since, this be-
ing over eight months ago. After the sixth
bottle of Warner’s safe cure, I passed two gravel-
stones as large as two peas joined together, and a
large quantity of smaller ones came away the same
night. The urine was thick and glassy in appear-
ance. I have taken 32 bottles Warner’s safe cure,
and four bottles Warner’s safe pills, and I feel
better than I ever did in my life. I now weigh 12
stone, and my friends say I never looked so well.
I am 51 years of age, and I earnestly recommend
Warner’s safe cure and Warner’s safe pills to all
who are afflicted with diseases of kidneys and liver.
—JAMES BuXSELL. Cootamundra,
N.S.W.—I am familiar with the case of Mr.
Boxsell and vouch for the truthfulness of his testi-
monial, lam aware that he had been under
doctors for some time, who were treating him for
Bright’s disease of the kidneys. EDWD, C.
MOONEY,


Pepper And Salt
The Melbourne Benevolent Asylum is one
of t hose grand philanthropic institutions of which
t his country has reason to be proud. It is con-
ducted on thoroughly practical principles. The
committee meets once a week to receive applica-
tions for admission. Poor old creatures, of both
sexes, totter into the board-room and advance
their claims. When the committee happens to be
in a merry mood it “ chaffs ” the old ’uns—asks
ladies of JO whether they can sing, and gentlemen
of 100 whether they like dancing. Just as many
as are wanted to fill the vacancies are carefully
solected, and the remainder are told to “ run in
again next week.” As they arc frequently on
crutches this reference to “ running ” makes tears
of laughter trickle down the cheeks of the unsuc-
cessful applicants when they hobble off. Con-
sidering the limited accomodation of the Benevo-
lent Asylum, it has often been a matter for sur-
prised comment that so many boarders are taken
in during the year. Some die, of course (when
two pop off in one day they are apt to get slipped
into the wrong coffins, and buried in one another’s
graves—but no matter), still the mortality rate
doesn’t keep pace with the vacancies. An ex-
planation of this phenomenon was forthcoming
last week, when William Tickle was brought be-
fore the “ Bincli,” as a vagrant. It seems that
William, who is quite paralysed, left the Asylum
of his own accord. He had trouble enough to get
in, but after getting in William was seized with a
burning desire to get out. He states that he
would “ rather go to gaol a thousand times than
return to his old quarters.” The presumption is
that the people who do remain in this very Beno-
velent Asylum are so decrepid as to be unable to
make their escape.
* * *
Brisbane is a nice place. It is not, as scorn-
ful and ignorant Southerners are prone to believe,
a vile compound of mosquitoes, mangroves, 50 o.p.
rum, and profanity ; it lias all these things in
more than ample profusion, but they are miti-
gated by the influence of other less doubtful
blessings. Brisbane is a splendid place for hotel-
keepers, for the climate is an eternal bar to
teetotalism, and the public thirst is beyond
quart-measure. Yet, despite this perpetual thirst,
a clear majority of the inhabitants are usually
sober during the morning. The bay has many
peculiar advantages .except for navigation, the
adjacency of its surface to the bottom discount-
ing its value for such purposes. The river would
be a fine one if they could take it up and pull the
kinks out, and make it wider and put some water
KING KALAKAU. ACCORDING TO AUSTRALIAN POPULAR IDEA.
“ Mr. Creighton, a journalist, has been appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs to the King of the
Sandwich Islands.” S.M. ERALD.
MINISTER CREIGHTON (loq,): “HAVING ASSUMED OFFICE, I BEG TO REQUEST
THAT YOUR MAJESTY WILL INFORM ME WITH WHICH OF THE GREAT
POWERS IT IS YOUR ROYAL WISH THAT I SHOULD FIRST COMMUNICATE ?”
HIS MAJESTY (decisively) : “ YOU SEND LONGA KAWEENSLAND—ME WANT
BLENTY MORE RUM.”
in. . At present and always it is filled with mud,
which gets pretty thin on top, where they call it
water, and some of the residents wallow therein
unclothed. This exercise they call bathing, hut
its object is not clearly discernible. It cannot he
for pleasure, so is most probably a penance
undergone with retrospective reference to
past profanity. Brisbane could be easily de-
fended against any attack by sea. If a
hostile squadron were to approach, the easiest
way of keeping it from coming to the city would
be to send a Chinaman down with two buckets to
put the river into until the alien desperadoes had
departed. There are volunteers at Brisbane, and
sometimes they have sham-fights. They had one
lately. One army of 35 officers and 23 men con-
spired to attack the city, and about 70 other proud
patriots turned out for its defence. The invaders
landed between the patriots and the city, took two
pubs, by storm without meeting any resistance,
except when some of them suggested that it
should he recorded on the trustful slate ; then
they marched back to the camp of the brave and
somnolent defenders, and decimated them with
fearful slaughter and blank cartridges. And
when they got full of carnage, the implacable foes
swapped chewing-tobacco, and sat down to play
euchre till daybreak. Then they arose and
banged the inoffensive drum and squoze the
plaintive bagpipes through Queen-street at 6
o’clock in the morning until pious citizens arose
in wrath and cursed all Brisbane sham-fighters
back to the 62nd generation. Queensland
sham-fights are the genuine article, they
are all sham. Locally-grown colonial wine
is openly exposed for sale in Brisbane, hut the
citizens, naturally tenacious of life, rarely commit
suicide by this means. Business is very brisk
there just now—in the Insolvent Court, but there’s
not much doing otherwise, except in the matter of
paying fire insurance claims. Brisbancitos have no
artistic sense of the beauty of a real good fire ;
when it begins to look pretty, they turn on the
hoses and spoil it right away. Sydney firemen
have a nobler perception of the picturesque ; they
fuss around until the fire has about burnt out, and
then pump on it to make a siss. But still the
Brisbane method has some advantages.
* * ' *
“ A representative Australian ”, now in
London wanted to find out the secret of England’s
greatness, and, after looking vaiDly in the Bible,
he went down to the navy-yard at Portsmouth to
see if it was there. From what he saw he thinks
he is on the right track. A boatload of timber
was being discharged when he went in, and he
stopped to find out how it was that the British fleet
absorbed £11,000,000 a year, and seemed so little
good after all. A man with a high salary was
standing looking thoughtfully around. Two men
were working a crane, another man was bossing
a rope, three men were looking at the other man,
and the man with the high salary was looking at
the whole six. On hoard the timber-vessel a man
was catching the end of a rope and passing it on
to another man, who hitched it to a piece of wood
another man looked on, and still another highly-paid
official gazed around and glared at the represen-
tative Australian. Then one man passed the word
to the other man and the other man passed it to
the boss on shore, and the latter gave it to the six
men around him, and all the six shouted to the
engineer, and he set the engine going and hauled
the log off. The whole thing looked so like a
N. S.W. railway contract that the Australian
almost thought he was at home again until he
enquired, ana found to his amazement that not
one of the crowd was nephew to a Minister.
* * *
It is not often that a money-lender gets
left, especially when be has a hook nose and his
name is “Shamuels/ but one of the tribe has gut
left at Auckland (N.Z.) Three months ago a
well-connected new-chum of ancient pedigree was
dead-broke in that city, and he called on
Shamuels to raise money on his furniture. The
inspection was made on a Sunday, and the husky
pershentage man, after duly explaining that
money was tight—awfully tight—lent the required
£lOO. But when the first instalment fell due the
borrower made no sign, and after giving due
notice by letter, the man with the Bible name
went to take possession—and was kicked. The
individual who had received the cheque was not
at home—in fact, he had never been at home—he
had only showed off another man’s furniture -when
the other man was absent, and as this fact
dawned on Shamuels he did a polka through
sheer agony on the door step, and screamed, “ Gif
me my moneysb. T villhaf my moneysli.” Then
he was kicked again; then he yelled that “he
would not go without his moneysh.” Then he was
kicked a third time —into the gutter.
* * -x-
Thomas Walker, of Maori Creek, N.Z.,
cobbler, has made a terrible mess of a suicidal job
he undertook. His ambition was to become a
halved ethereal bootmaker up above, so he cut
his throat three times, and afterwards found to
his disgust that he was still alive. Next he made
three stabs in his chest, and not having got rid of
the vital spark even then he drove the knife into
his ribs—and still he survived. Then, hardly
knowing how to blot himself out, he put some
dynamite into a jam-pot. and stood on it while it
fizzled. As a result he nearly blew his feet off,
but yet he didn’t die. Lastly, he went fooling
round with a pistol, hut missed, though to an
ordinary observer it might seam that to hit such
a stupendous fool would he as easy -as hitting a
mountain at 10 paces ; the report also drew at-
tention, and .Philip Walker is at present in the
hospital where, to his own wild surprise, lie pro-
mises to recover. He now ranks as the prize ass
of N.Z., a position which was formerly held by a
lunatic who sat for half-an-hour on top of some
powder, dropping matches into it all the while
until at last the damp compound went off and
shot him into the air, scorched, frizzled, singed
and shrieking, but still not seriously injured. ’
* * *
The wail of a tortured soul comes from
Waikaia (N.Z.-). A selector residing in that breezy
dog-kennel writes to a Dunedin paper rc a recipe
for the cure of indigestion which appeared in its
agricultural columns. His letter contains about
half a column of ghastly details, and winds up by
saying that the final result was a considerable loss
in weight—the writer having gone down from 11
stone to six, and were it not for the hideous state
of prostration to which he is reduced he would
have come down and made the whole editorial
staff dine on the prescription. The aggrieved boss
of the Dunedin paper publishes the recipe in a
footnote. This is it:
11 Give a pint of raw linseed oil and one ounce of turnon
tine, and repeat twice a week for two weeks. Then give with
some cut feed and ground oats and com a tablespoonful
twice a day of the following mixture, viz.:—Four ounces of
powdered Peruvian bark, four ounces of ground ginger, two
ounces of powdered sulphate of iron, four ounces of carbon-
ate of soda, and eight ounces of salt,”
The mistake appears to have been that the pre-
scription was meant for a horse.
AS I LAYE A-DRYNKYNGE.
(AFTER INGOLDSBY.)
Written in the luncheon-reserve at Flemington.
As I laye a-drynkynge, a-drynkynge, a-drynkynge,
Merrie popped the corkes from the bottles of
champagne ;
Thpro came a maiden brighte,
Clad in navee blue and whyte,
And that maiden she was hyghte
Ethel Jane;
As I laye a-drynkynge, a-muddleing my biv.ine.
As 1 laye a-drynkynge, a-drynkynge, a-drynkynge,
Ethel Jane looked sad, and she pouted prettilee;
I asked the mayden why
Stood the teare drop in her eye ?
She murmured this replye—
“ Don’t you see,
As you lye a-drynkynge you’re not a-wooing
me.”
As I laye a-drynkynge, a-drynkynge, a-drynkynge,
Merrie popped the question from my willing
lippes;
She bent her daintie head
And her cheekes were rosy red,
As Bhe “muzzled” me and said
’Twixt the sippes—
“ As you lye a-drynkynge, oh, have you any
tippes?”
As I laye a-drynkynge, a-drynkynge, a-drynkynge,
Knowing was my nod as I squeezed Ethel’s
waist;
I told her of a “ cop ”
Just a moral for a “ shop ”
Twas the colt by Lolly pop
Out of Haste ;
But as Flay a-drynkynge, it wasn’t even placed.
As T laye a-drynkynge, a-drynkynge, a-drynkynge,
Merrie sang the blrde as it fluttered in the air ;
A “ maslier,” tall and lliin,
Told my darling what would win,
And I saw it canter in
With despair ;
As 1 lay a-drynkynge, he won her then and
there.
As I laye a-drynkynge, a-drynkynge, a-drynkynge,
Sadly sang my hearte as it sanke within my
breaste;
My little mayde was gone,
And my face was white and wan
As the downe upon the swan
’s swelling chest;
As I laye a-drynkynge my feeling were express’t,
“ Never venture, on a tippe
As you kiss a mayden’s lippe—
Let the girls and ’osses Rippe—
Give ’em best.”
A LAY OF ANCIENT NEW SOUTH WALES
(BY M'Gladrigan
the historian, who is believed
to have flourished about a.d. 2500.)
The member came with hasty step and anger-
furrowed brow,
And lifting high his lofty head, thus spake he ; -
“ Cravens! now
I come mine honour to defend. Lot Barkes and
all his crew
Advance and prove by direful blows what Beery-
boy can do.”
Scarce had he flung the challenge forth when
Swig-the-bottle came ;
His raven locks erectile rose above his cheeks of
flame,
His ruddy nose showed clear and bright upon that
summer morn
As shines the golden cirrus-cloud beneath the
rosy dawn.
One wrathful stride he forward took, then raised
his hand on high,
And smote the boastful Bcery-boy beneath the
dexter eye.
With one deep groan the hero fell full-length upon
the floor,
And the beery breath of Beery-boy perfumed the
air no more.
Just then there came a partisan who viewed his
comrade’s fall,
He burned to ’venge the shameful deed and raised
his party call,
And fast the members flocking came and girt
them for the fray,
Which lasted thence till near the close of that
most famous day.
Then shone the prowess of M'Fiend, then Boozy
swept the field,
And oft the iaw political in utter silence sealed ;
Then Hodman swayed the iron fist—a fist inspiring
awe,
That e’en to legislators, proud and haughty, gave
the law.
September’s slowly-sinking sun beheld the battle
close —
Beheld the bruised and blackened eye, beheld the
battered nose.
And many a woeful cry arose and many an oath,
I ween,
As patriots thought of what they were and what
they once had been.
In those brave days, ye moderns, the whisky ran
like rain,
Our sires were men—their likes, alas ! we ne’er
shall see again ;
My story is a true one —it hath a meaning, too,
If ye cannot see the moral, ye may read it till ye
do.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Field Flowers will Goe back to England
when there’s a better billet on hand.
We have at last found a use, the only use,
for the Prince of Wales. He has a birthday.
General M'lver is off to Europe, where we
will probably hear of him next as M‘lver the First,
Prince of Bulgaria.
According to the Wak Crv, one Salvation
Army ‘' officer ” has sold his last pair of trousers
and enclosed (he amount to the General.
Mr. E. H. Hargraves is again to the fore.
He wipes a long letter to the E. News defending
his claim to be regarded as the first discoverer of
gold in Australia.
Even in far Northern Queensland it
doesn’t look very well to -see a big drunken police
magistralo fighting with a little publican—and
getting the worst of the mill.
Sir Julius Vogel lias had a tumour re-
moved from the back of his head. The surgeons
think it was his honesty oozing from the inside of
the place where he kept if.
The Baroness de Rothschild, just deceased,
left ‘ a fortune of six million pounds sterling, and
a collection of jewellery which could not te
equated between London and Lahore.”
The most cautious parson extant lives in
Melbourne. He employs two one-armed men to
take up the collection. If you carry a plate in
your right hand you can’t dip into it with your
right hand.
The great W. L. Murdoch declined an in-
vitation to play for Victoria against Shaw’s Eng-
lish eleven. William appears to he devoting him-
self to the law. He only runs up long scores
i gainst his clients now.
A Greek archbishop is just now in the
hands of a band of brigands, and when they are
going out to rob or murder somebody they make
him pray for their success. He prays, too ; it is
much nicer than being kicked.
The Primrose League are collecting sub-
scriptions with a view to presenting to the Queen,
at her jubilee, a huge South African diamond
worth £250,000. The stone is “of a beautiful rich,
clear orange tint.” So, too, is the Primrose
League.
According to an American paper, the
once famous Monsignor Gapel, who converted the
Marquis of Bute and a score more of the British
aristocracy to Rome, was at latest rather low down;
he was acting as soda-water-ooikcr in a cordial
factory at Chicago for about two dollars a day.
The register of William Beach’s birth has
recently been turned up by some zealous fossicker.
It dates him back to the 6th September, 1850.
William always used to reckon that his record
only reached ’5l. It is rather rough on a man to
have a year put on to his age right off that way.
Some of the American papers are getting
madly profane because Beach refuses to row
Hanlan outside of Australia, and one San Fran
cisco journal prays that an Esquimaux champion
may arise who will refuse Beach a chance of re-
covering his laurels unless he goes te row at the
North Pole.
Another indecent outrage. The learned
and able Professor M‘Coy, of Melbourne, has been
created a C.M.G., and Sydney Evening News says
that “No man in the colonies better deserves the
distinction.” Poor wretch! Why, John Davies
is a C.M.G., and so is C. J. Roberts, who made his
money in a whisky-mill.
This Nazar ene article is from a fashionable
English paper : —“ The Archbishop of Canterbury
and Mrs. Benson left Addington last week for
Bamborough Castle, which they have taken for a
month.” We presume that “ Mr 3. Benson ” is •
Canterbury’s wife. We hope so, as English
sassiety is just now rather mixed.
In commerce and in art, says “ Dagonet,”
the Jewish race are pre-eminent. Take a hundred
of the most successful men of any period you
like, in finance, in painting, in music, on the stage,
and in journalism, and I should like to wager that
in sixty out of each hundred there is a distinct
trace of Jewish blood to be found.
A Melbourne man brought an action
against Dr. Rose (the coming co-respondent in a
spicy divorce suit) for careless treatment. He ad-
mitted to having been examined by nine well
known medical men, in addition to a batch of
minor lights at the hospital. The wonder is that
he lived to tell the tale. He got £5OO damages.
Lucky-digger Smyth, M.L.A. for Gympie
(Q.), says the working men are never satisfied, and
that trades’-unions are had things, ruining the
country. Digger Smith, M.L.A., turned ova'
£lO,OOO by one blow of his pick some years ago
and ever since then he has been shocked and
amazed at tire poor devils who howl for Bs. a daf
Some residents of Tenterfield are, we road
disloyally dissatisfied with Lord Caring ton a
appearance. They say they had thought he was
“ a tall, nohle-looking man, not a little whip per* ’
snapper with moustaches twisted up like a cow's
horns.” The Sydney Lanceahs should, be de-
spatched at once to punish sutfh seditious utter*
antes.
Sydney Evening News reports on the
authority of a German histologist that a man gets
a totally new brain every 60 days. We are giad^


to note, therefore, that in two months Alfred will
have a new brain, and we hope it will be much
better than the old one. But we have been so
often disappointed in this matter that we are be-
ginning to lose heart.
Berry, the English hangman, sports a
professional card bearing, it is reported, the
legend, “ Orders promptly executed.” Marwood,
his predecessor, also had a card on which were
engraved his name and the words ‘ Executioner,
Horncastle,” inside a mauve border. Berry, by
the bye, indignantly repudiates any connection
with a man of the same name in Victoria.
Cardinal Moran is getting himself disliked.
His Very latest is the inhibition of one of the most
popular of his clergy, a charming and cultured
man. The Cardinal refuses to assign any reason,
and the public, in whose estimation the “ silenced”
clergyman stands high, are utterly at a los3 to
imagine why so extreme a step has been taken.
The matter, it is said, has been “referred to
Rome.”
A little Melbourne rag, “written by old
women for old women,” is inexpressibly sorry for
“ poor Willie Campbell,” who robbed the Bank of
Australasia, and has been graciously permitted to
elude the vigilance of the law. If Willie is poor
he has only himself to blame. He collared some-
thing like £2OOO, and ought to have put the money
by. for a rainy day. But then these bank clerks
are so improvident.
There was a rush of medical men for the
post of chief examiner for the A.M.P. Society—a
comfortable appointment of £l2OO annually, lately
rendered vacant by the death of Dr. W. F.
Mackenzie. The successful man was Dr. J. C.
Cox, but many of the Society’s policy-holders,
without wishing in any way to reflect upon Dr.
Cox, consider that a gross injustice has been done
to the office by the non-selection of Dr. Garrett,
Dr, Mackenzie’s deputy.
Thfee Would-be suicides-=a loafer, a
miner, and a baker*poet—turned up in one day re-
cently at Charters Towers (Q.) The latter gentle-
man ascribed his conduct to overwork ; he had
to make bread, keep accounts, and write odes and
lyrics, but he did not mind niiich until the editor
df tile Northern Miner sent back a yeasty
cant ata, and told him to go ringbarking. Adverse
Criticism, he said, had snuffed out both him and
Keats, and he wanted to die.
Young Morey, who is well-connected in
Queensland,and who while a cashier in the Queens-
land Bank at Hughenden robbed the institution of
£2OO, was found guilty and was sentenced by
Judge Cooper to be imprisoned for nine months.
Immediately afterwards, a would-be pugilist built
of commoner clay, and convicted of feloniously
receiving a pinchbeck albert chain, was sentenced
by the same judge to s even years' gaol! Moral:
Perhaps Judge Cooper will supply the moral.
Lord Castlerosse, late hanger-on to Sir
Henry Loch, Governor of Victoria, is about to be
married to Miss Baring, a rich heiress, but as his
father, the Earl of Kenmare, couldn’t get in the
rint, the show will be a cheap one. His agent
tried hard to collect some money, but it was no
good. Things are getting so had in Ireland
that Another individual of the rent-grabbing
species—the Earl of Clanricarde’s agent—had to
go and meet his bride on the wedding-morn
guarded by a strong escort of policemen.
In the Timaru (N.Z.) poisoning case, the
prosecution vainly sought to show that undue
familiarity had existed between “Tom” (Hall)
and “Megrims” (Miss Houston); the only point
brought out in this direction was the possibly un-
truthful evidence of one of the servants, who
stated that Miss Houston somtimes went to Mr.
Hall to get him to lace her stays for her, at which
delicate operation the gentleman appears to have
been a dab hand. Beyond that, nothing approxi-
mating to naughtiness was shown to have oc-
curred.
Judging from the tone adopted by some of
the Sydney aldermen towards the City Engineer,
fine might imagine that Mr, Trevor Jones, instead
of being a man with a quarter of a century’s
honorable record, was a double-dyed villain just
convicted of robbing the dead. We don’t know
how Mr. Jones feels about it, but we’d rather be a
proscribed Anarchist’s one-eyed, three-legged,
half-starved, hydrophobiated bull-pup, than be
the servant of a body whose language was the
language of the filthy abattoirs and the brutal
pot-house.
The owners of the great Mount Morgan
job are now reaping the fruits of their victory at
law, and are selling up their opponents to recover
the amount of Sawmill Griffith’s bill for eloquence
expended. Their account against Richard Bond
alohe Animlnts to £4OO, and the other day they
aiictiened his jjrospectiis, consisting of one sixth
share in White’s Gold Mine ; a half share in the
attached water-right, and a sixth share in tfie
machinery, the latter amounting to a shovel, a
wheelbarrow and a pick-axe. The lot fetched
£1 13s. 6d.
That article published last Sunday must
have bitten into the very soul of Pastor Jefferis—
it is fair to presume, we suppose, that every man,
including Pastor Jefferis, has a soul. For that
godly personage to be reminded in the midst of
his flatulent blather about “Christian Socialism”
that Dr. Jefferis himself, as “ a good preacher,
is worth a large salary, which, as a remarkably
good man of business, he has increased by various
speculations, in which he has gained what other
people have lost ” —strikes us as being one of the
cruellest things on record.
VYc are sorely afraid that Field Flowers
Goe, Esq., Anglican bishop-elect of Melbourne, is
inclined to drivel. He lately said Let the
Christian teacher circulate among working people
such a book as “Tim Teddingten’s Dream,” and it
will put more sense into their heads about national
politics than all the electioneering speeches.”
“ Tim Te< dington’s Dream” and similar volumes
of calf-lieaded hogwash are Bishop Goe's idea of
the mental food appropriate for “working
people,” but if he is bringing a cargo of that so-t
of thing to Australia for the benefit of the work-
ing man, he'll be considerably astonished at the
reception his rubbish will receive.
Edmund Yates, of the World, cordially
detests the Prince of Wales, who worked hard
against him in the Lonsdale libel case—a good
turn which E.Y. has since repaid with- compound
interest added. Yates, however, is not yet satis-
fied, and he now wants to know how it is that
while distinguished servants of the British Crown
who honourably earn decorations from foreign poten-
tates, are strictly forbidden to wear them, the
British Royal Family are perpetually breaking
the law in'this matter. “ The Prince, who has
never heard a gun fired in warfare, who has never
saved a life, who has never done one single thing
to qualify himself in any way for the distinction
thrust upon him, is permitted to cover his manly
bosom with eagles and lions and lambs, with
crosses and stars, until an unknowing spectator
would take him either for Marshal Moltke or the
tiugiuaster at the Cirque d'Ete.’
POLITICAL
POINTS
Caulfield. sold again ! Targett will not
resign for Hartley.
It is said that Parkes, senior, will stand at
Redfern next election.
“ Graced with glory and garnished with a
Goat,” says the alliterative A. G. Taylor of the
Contingent.
Rumour says Tom Garrett would not be
unwilling to shed his Free-trade skin and become a
Protectionist leader.
The year 1888 will be the bi-cenfeenary of
the visit of Dampicr, the first Englishman who
landed on the continent of Australia.
Another good man going out. Dr. Tar-
rant is about to resign for Kiama. The dootor
can face a corpse, but he cannot represent the
Ghost.
Notwithstanding the affected indignation
of Frawncis Abigail at the accusation, it appears
that he really ha s five relations in the Civil
Service.
The Sydney D.T. howls hysterically for
Free-trade. The Evening News is also strongly
Free-trade —as yet. Which of these two journals
will “rat” first —that is the question.
According to a Queensland paper, things
are now so bad in Brisbane that “ every vacancy
is rushed by a few score of half-famished beings
who fight like wild beasts for precedence.”
Out of 650 unemployed relieved in Sydney
the pther day, only about 33, according to the
E. News, were Irish. English and Scotch were
present in swarms, but the “improvident Celt”
only made up 5 per cent, of the gathering.
Labouchere hears that there are papers
and correspondence at St. Petersburg, the publi-
cation of which would show Russia to have been
amply iustified in the policy she adopted toward
the Princelet (Alexander of Bulgaria) whom she
sent to Sofia seven years ago.
The N.S.W. Freetrade party, mad at the
Jennings 5 percent, ad valorems.are trying a knock
out. Jennings is the devil they know ; Abbott,
who may succeed Jennings, is the devil they don’t
know. If Jennings goes they’ll have to swallow
at least 10 per cent, ad valorem.
The statement is openly made by London
papers that Sir Redvers Buller has reported to his
official superiors that it is quite impossible for the
toil ants of Kerry to pay their rents; Reply to
questions as to the truth of statement has been
avoided by Ministers in the Commons.
Thomas Bracken, the well-known N.Z.
pressman, has been returned for Central Dunedin
by a crushing majority, scoring 501 votes against
the next man’s 255. He “ went the whole hog ”
on Protection with splendid results, while the
Free-trade man found only 80 supporters.
W. P. Crick is once more to the fore in
th e role of Caius Gracchus. He intends to de-
molish the whole of the squatters’ champions at
the forthcoming conference. Billy is a certain
starter for West Macquarie next time, and if
brains, cheek, and pugnacity go for aught, he
already holds a mortgage on the seat.
It is proposed by some London philan
thropist that the unemployed pddr of that city
should be brigaded and kept on hand to do odd
household job 3 as required at a charge of id. an
hour, and should wear a badge to show that they
are on hire —“on the job, in fact.” As a means
of gently starving men to death this plan has few
equals.
An English company which has bought a
N.Q. gold-mine for a huge sum proposes to work it
with Chinese labour only. The whites, however,
are beginning to “ say things,” so there is just a
chance that the company, after paying six figures
for their property, may find themselves merely
possessed of a big hole in the ground and a large
and prosperous boycott.
The paynidrit ctf church tithes in Wales
will soon be a thing of the pdst. Recent distraints
in several parishes, although supported by armies
of police have been only very moderately success-
ful, the feeling of spectators and bailiff’s alike
being bitterly opposed to the rank injustiqe of the
levy. The failure to collect tithes is the most cer-
tain step to Disestablishment.
At the meeting of Protectionist delegates
in Sydney last week, 50 persons were present, of
whom 22 were avowed Orangemen. In the N.S.W.
politics of the present day the Yellow Pup crowd
have to decide between King Billy and bread and
butter. The consequence is that Parkes and Free-
trade will be left out in the cold, and King Billy
will have his skull ground on the doorstep of the
Trades’ Hall.
It is said on good authority that the Quern
has offered a residence and a screw to Alexander
Battenberg, and was anxious to bring him over
immediately after he proved his pusillanimity in
Bulgaria, but her Ministers after much opposition
dissuaded her from doing so, lest her action should
be construed as a deliberate affront to Russia.
He had better go to England. The loyal Britisher
loveth German pensioners.
The more complete the isolation of France
the more danger there is that she may be brought,
at England’s expense, within the sphere of Bis-
marck’s influence, says Vanity Fair. The same
paper says that the' apparent determination of
the French to remain where they have planted
themselves in the New Hebrides is intended as a
protest against the violation of definite engage-
ments- entered- into hy England with regard to
Egypt.
“The Lord evicted His first tenant,” is
the latest Scriptural argument on behalf of the
Irish landlord. So He did, but He didn’t charge
Adam a rack-rent for a stony mountain-top
planted at an angle of 45 degrees to the horizon,
nor did He perpetrate a mean swindle by refusing
compensation for improvements. The serpent
was the only improvement in Eden, and-Gain
seems to have taken that with him when the
family left.
It is nice to be a Russian. Three Mus-
covite peasants who scoffed at an image at Kieff,
were first sentenced to 12 and 15 years’ hard labour
respectively, but their punishment was commuted
to banishment to the remotest parts of Siberia and
“loss of all civil rights.” Fancy an Australian
who grinned at the new cross in Sydney Anglican
Cathedral being straightway exiled to the South
Pole and left on top of an iceberg for the rest of
his natural life !
Michael Jones, of Orange, is a man who
thirsts for knowledge. He wants to know, you
know, if the Mr. W. H. Suttor, M.L.C., who
moved an amendment on the Forbesßorenore
railway proposition, is the same Mr. W. H. Suttor
who recently purchased a station from a Mr
Campbell, formerly owned by a Mr. Sloan, anc
which happens to be moighty adjacint, as Mr.
Jones remarks, to the line so warmly proposed by
the Hon. W. H. Suttor ?
English army and navy estimates have
grown from £17,000,000, the figure in 1817, to
£31,000,000 for the present year. Civil Service
Estimates and Consolidated Fund charges have
similarly increased from £6,401,000 to £19,771,000.
There is plenty of work for the Royal Commission
now at work enquiring into the accounts of the
several departments. As there are only four Lords
in the Commission it is barely possible that two oi
three small abuses may be reported.
The South Kensington Jubilee Institute
job is fast bursting up. South Australia has
backed out, and the Agents-General of the other
colonies refuse to do anything till they know how
the money is to be used. Sir Cunliffe Owen has
fled from the scene, finding there is no fat billet
going, and the other patriots who w r anted to be
perpetual commissioners at £lOOO a year each, are
turning dog on poor Wales, whom they have
dragged into their swindle. No man can be
patriotic for less than £lOOO a year.
Last week, at Balmain, a person named
Albert Elkington, whose namemay be remembered
in connection with a certain celebrated N.B.W.
Supeme Court action a few years back, is alleged
by the daily press to have said : —“ He had known
Mr. G. R. Dibbs—(groans)—all through his life-
time, and he was the same man in public as in pri
rate life. The man v.-as a pauper in heart, a
pauper in thought, a pauper in soul, and a pauper
in deed.” Mr. Albert Elkington is evidently not
a pauper in at least two things —cheek and
imagination.
Mudgee Taylor, M.L.A., lifts up his voice
in the wilderness and speaks thus of the Stuart
administration :
“ The expenditure o i the N.S.W. army and navy—whose
only conquests hitherto have been amoj the fair sex and the
Eth opian goats—was multiplied by three without one visible
atom of increase in its never-conspicuous eftieacy.”
We beg to second Mudgee. It took several
hundred N.S.W. warriors to annex that goat, and
these warriors have since been looking round for
some new goat to conquer, and not finding one
that looked small enough to be attacked they have
been mashing housemaids instead with very slight
success. The game is not worth the oandle.
As a specimen of clerical arrogance, Bishop
Hales’ condolence with the Maoris who lost their
all by the Rotorua earthquakes takes precedence
of all former deliverances. After assuring the
sufferers that his sympathy was on tap to their
order, and noticing the fact that they have lost
all they : possessed, he adds :
"It may % a question, however, whether means so easily
earned were really for their good; whether, in fact, we may
not read in this visitation the interpretation of a merciful
Father who would remove from them temptations to self-
indulgence s which had b'een too strong for them.
The Arctic coolness of this latter sentence proves
how strong in consoling power is the Christian re-
ligion. It, always enables the good, fat, well-paid
bishop to view with perfect equanimity the misfor-
tunes of all persons who are not subscribers to the
Stipend Fund.
The Defender of the Faith has been seen
purchasing a baby’s robe. It was put down
to Battcnberg’s account. Another chubby
little fist will ere long dive into the poeket of
poor old John Bull.
It is insinuated that the appointment of
Sir William Stawell as Lieutenant-Governor of
Victoria was intended as a personal slight to
Chief Justice Higinbotham, who is the Governor’s
legitimate “understudy.” The Justice’s en-
lightened views on the land question and his
advocacy of women’s rights, frightened Duncan
Gillies and his Cabinet. Duncan favoured th-3
home authorities with a glowing picture of what
might happen in the event of that radical Higin-
botham being called upon to boss Victoria pro
tern. The home authorities hearkened. So, to be
on the safe side, they appointed, as deputy ruler
of the colony, a gentleman who lately resigned
his seat upon the bench owing to mental and
bodily infirmity. The moral is easy ; Any cripple
will do to represent Royalty. But we Australians
have known that for nearly a century.
This from the Age “ Confiscating the
land is probably not possible anywhere ; but it
can hardly be dreamed of except by a half
educated or half-crazy man, in countries whei <•
the possessors of the soil constitute a very lari i,
part of the population.” Heigho ! How the spii >i
of the Age has changed since its chief lucky
owner became a large landed proprietor ! Tin u
was when the slippery journal advocated land
nationalisation as the true policy for a ne v
colony. Now it argues that such a blessed coi -
summation is not to be arrived at until all t) «
land has been grabbed and the possessors of tin
soil have become a very small part of the popula
tion. Then it will be “ possible ” for the down
trodden millions toarise in their wrath and demai (i
back the land which should never have been
parted with. It is a comfortable reflection for tl .■
Age that nothing of that sort can happen in Mi.
David Symo’s time.
Mr. E. Pulsford, of the N.S.W. Free-
trade Association, in trying to show that the in-
dustries of a country in which high wages ml.:
are not affected by competition with a low wage
country, actually has the audacit y to cite the pa
toral industry of Australia as proof of his argu-
ment. Mr. P. must surely know that the laboi.
employed i» the production of wool is less tha .
that required for any other species of wealth. Tl,.
squatter who pays a rent of £lO,OOO a year oft .
does not pay more than £lOOO a year in w»g<:.
The truth of this is so apparent as to lead k> «
suspicion of Mr. Puisford’s sincerity or sanity. I
he cannot argue from better premises than Ihes
he himself must esteem his cause lost. The wi.
argument for Free-trade will deceive no one. A> <1
it is noticeable that Free-trade has not been ah' •
to crush this industry,-as it has crushed the woolh v.
manufactures of N.S.W., simply because s@ lit ,
labour is employed therein. We wonder if A .
Pulsford is paid for producing these wonder! ,
arguments.
That organ of snuffle, the Queenslai > 1
Evangelical Standard, until recently run l v
the reverend father of Sir S. Griffith, inferc
tially accuses the unemployed of causing th( v
own present adversity by their past expenditm.,-
in public-houses and in “ tobacco and other need-
less indulgences.” Similarly, we might infoi in
the good men who run the Q.E.S. that if they
were to eschew such luxuries as tea, muffins, a; «i
gingerbeer, restricting themselves to a diet . c
corned beef and cold-water, they would not ) -
quire to be on an everlasting yearn for 1 3 -
eleemosynary threepennies of the faitlifi
Granted that some of the Brisbane unemploy, d
may have assimilated more canejuice than th. ~
respective physical organisations demanded, it s
still doubtful whether a gang of teetotallers woo! )
not be in an equally bad plight at present. Who i
reminds us of the Frenchmen who died with tl
conundrum on his lips : “ I have never smoked
my life, hut oh vare is the monnaie I have save
in seegars ? ”
The “ Siege of Saunder’s Fort,” Woodfoi d
(Ireland), where the tenants resisted eviction 1 y
throwing boiling water from the windows, ai «i
turning swarms of bees loose on their assailam .
has furnished a good text for coercive Torieb, b< t,
there are tome circumstanocs abeut the ca c
which even the most brazen of Tories prefers i .
suppress. The population of Woodford diminish, -i
—chiefly on account of evictions—from 14,000, i-.
1841, to 6000, in 1880, and is still declining. The - .,
are not five acres of tillage to be found in fix a
miles, for the tenant-farmers have been swept
away, and their farms turned into pastures, tha
the absentee landlord may make a few pound .
more per annum ; and a rental of £30,000 a year
goes to London, the owner never visiting or spend •
ing a penny: on his estates. He even forbids tl <-
erection of a church on his ground, and, in shor,
all he dees is to take half the entire produce r
the land, and give nothing whatever to the start -
ing people in return. Bees and boiling xx'ate.
seem very appropriate in such a case.
The voice of the Macjleay Herald is
heard in the wilderness regarding the alleged
perpetrators of the Mount Rennie outrage, and
this is what it says :
"They are. as we have already said, cowards at heart, for
they belong to the larrikin fraternity. Everyone of those
things who were implicated in the Moore Park outrage was
a larrikin—the oldest of them, the cabdriver, being probabl
the worst specimen of humanity that ever God permitted to
attain the age of 32.”
We can only suggest in a charitable spirit that
perhapg Heaven knew what it was about when it
permitted the cabman to attain the age of 32, and
also when it didn’t—up to this date—allow the
Argus to reach such an age by a long way, but
we quote our contemporary’s burst of eloquence to
show the admirable chance a mdn has for a fair
trial in N.S,W. The case is decided already;
hardly one Australian juryman could be found
who is not soaked with prejudice ; and it would
be necessary to change the venue to Gape Colony:
on one side, or Peru on the other before the
prisoners could hope for an unbiassed hearing.
Coal-miniug in Scotland seems to resemble
slavery just about as nearly as any: system yet
discovered. The rate of pay for hewing varies
from Bd. to Is. 2d. ton, and at this not more
than 2s. 6d. per day can be made —in fact, it is
stated that no miner has averaged as much as 10s.
per week during the past summer. Out of thi3
amount deductions for the doctor, tool-sharpening,
oil, and powder are made, and the balance, rarely
exceeding 10s., is paid to the miner for the sup-
port of himself and family. It is not strange that
these martyrs of a cursed system grow mutinous
and threaten fearful things. But while they drag
through a miserable existence it is pleasant to
know that the lestees of the mines continue to
make enormous profits, and are still enabled to
“ stimulate trade " by the consumption of cham-
pagne and the use of sealskin and velvet. And
the landowner is equally fortunate. He receWes
about 25 per cent, more for the ccal naturally
placed in those seams than the miners do for hew-
ing it out, and, therefore, he. too, xvaxes fat and
consumes the good things cf the eaith. How
much longer?
The Sydney E. News aspires to .make
and unmake Ministers at will. Once that paper
“turned dog” on a Government which would
not give a billet as Minister for Works to a cer-
tain played-out old gentleman who happened to
be a protege of Alfred's ; yet strange to say that
Government lasted nearly three years afterwards.
The other day Sir Alexander Stuart died, and
Mr. Henniker Heaton (brother-ia-law of the E.
News man. ging proprietor) wanted his post as
Executive Commissioner for N.S.W. Somebody
purporting to represent the News waited
upon the Colonial Secretary, demanding Mr.
Heaton’s immediate appointment to the position.
G. R. Dibbs nearly exploded with laughter at the
application, whereupon it was threatened that
the News would “ round ” upon the Ministry'.
“ Round and be ! ” said G. R. D. And
strange to say the News has rounded. The
News people have vainly tried to get the newly-
imposed duty on printing paper removed, as it
means to them over £lOOO a year, and altogether
there are various excellent reasons why the
Ministry should be cordially detested in Market-
street.


Topics of the Time,
! InDIGNATION-MeRTING ORATOR '
“ Fellow citizens, something ought
to be done.”—(Hear, hear 1)- —fßut
nothing ever is “ done. ’)
Mi. Moodv, the Evangelist,
regrets that he cannot come to
Australia, but he does the next
be>,t tiling, and sends us all a
blessing (by mail, post-paid, care
of the Y M.C.A.) “This is
highly satisfactory," quoth the
gentle shepherdess, “but will
not meet the two million deficit.”
North Shore Resident (to visitor
proudly) ; “ Such a view I » 1 VlSltoF «
Visjtor ; “ And each drainage f ”
J ~ , Tho ®*«ped Nuir^Tw]^
S;7 e criticism at Lismore in
the shape of sticks, whips, hur-!
•I s ’. horse-shoes, stones and ;
K IOUB eg F' E » Ca P«i!
a Ua escaped none. *
-Cr-j^^The “ Government" though gone into recess will
get very little'rest, as it is rumoured that relays of ministers, will.- -
be told off to keep an eye on “ Habigle„” and u hud out something about him, for
Heaven’s g ' • •
If the Mayor will dance
He must pay the piper.
! Sr-R Charles : “ Well, Wales, you will now go
to Australia, of course ? ”
Wales : “Why, no, I have no notion of it.”
Dilke “ What, after that magnificent scandal which
|js in all the papers about you ! Will you then decline to
grasp the opportunity it will give you for cementing wore
(firmly those bonds of love which bind the Mother:
Country to the colonies ?*’


What it is coming to in Australia. —(see Leader on page 4)
FUTURE PREMIER OF ANY COLONY : “NO MY MEN, I CAN’T GIVE YOU ANY EMPLOYMENT UNLESS YOU WILL WORK FOR THREE AND FOURPENCE[?]A DAY, AS
THE CHINAMEN DO AT PINE CREEK RAILWAY. BUT I CAN GIVE YOU EACH A TICKET FOR THE SOUP KITCHEN, AND MAY GET SOME OF YOU INTO THE
BENEVOLENT ASYLUM.”


Society
On Tuesday afternoon, 26th ult., a
Government House, Sydney, Lord and Lad
Carington gave a garden party in honour of th
Anglican Synod. The clergy of all sorts wer
strongly represented ; bishops seemed to he every
where, and Cardinal Moran in his gorgeous robe
was also present. To the irreverent, one of th
funniest sights in the world was to see how Hi
Eminence stalaed round with his hands crossec
upon his breast, “shadowed” by four of his
clergymen. During the afternoon the Fisk
Jubilee singers gave some of their sweetest selec
tions with very good effect, and in the interval
the artillery band discoursed sweet music, t
which the delighted guests kept time. Lady
Carington was charming in a royal blue silk, witi
old gold sash taken from the left shoulder righ
across the front of the skirt, bonnet cn suite
Many other effective costumes were shown. Mrs
Sydney Want wore a pretty white dress and hat
Mrs. G. B. Simpson appeared in handsome em
broidered brown velvet ; Mrs. Henry Cohen
stylish black dre?s, white hat ; Mrs. C. Hogg
cream crepe dress, with trimmings
cream and black hat ; Miss Essie Jennyns wore
' black and white stripes ; Mrs. Cecil Griffiths,
neat gown of pretty grey material, bonnet to
match- Crepe dresses in every colour, stripes
and checks, were most conspicuous.
* * *
Hon. Rupert Carington, brother of Lore
C., is expected in Sydney shortly. He intend
to spend Christmas at Government House.
* * *■
Lady Martin gave a very pleasant garden
party at her residence one day last week, which
was attended by a host of fashionables.
* * *
Lacly Loch's 46 usual ” Thursday afternoon
receptions come off about once in every ten weeks
On the odd nine occasions her lady oh ip has press
ing engagements in the country, which prevent
her from going through with the hand-shaking.
* * *
Many will deeply regret the death of Dr.
Le Gay Brereton, physician, of Sydney, a good
and large-hearted man, and a colonist of 30 years’
standing, during which he had built up for him-
self a reputation all might envy. It is as a poet
Dr. Breretou would chiefly nave wished to be re-
membered. He wrote much delicate and scholarly
verse, often displaying great grasp of mind and
sometimes much true poetic feeling ; but his lines,
the reflex of hij own gentle nature, taken all in
all lacked force and Are. He had been ill, and
had lived in retirement for years, calmly awaiting
the dratli he knew to be near at hand.
* * *
Sydney ladies are getting naughty.
Pretty little cigarette pockets now find a welcome
place in “ toney” tea gowns, and these little
pockets are always well-stocked with “Old
Judge,” or the aesthetic verbena-scented papelito.
P.S.—This is not an advt.
* * *
A young man belonging to a certain
“ highly respectable” Australian family (i.e., none
of his clan have, so far as is known, ever been con-
victed of anything very much worse than vio-
lently assaulting the police) lately took it into his
head to get married to a local governess, an ap-
parent! y simple -minded irl, reputedly impecunious,
whereupon his father forbade him the ancestral
mansion. [ln Scotland the ancestral mansion of
the family was an inverted boat on the banks of
the Clyde.] About a week after the marriage it
was discovered that the ci-devant govern ess was
entitled to £16,000 under the will of her lately-
deceased father, and that she had taken to teach-
ing merely to escape the attentions of a city
masher, who had been making her life miserable.
At latest it is reported that the old man is slowly
recovering.
* * *
Some of the “ distinguished colonists ” in
London are getting “dead-broke.” Many of them
are cabling for money, some telegraphing in a
lordly way, “'Send another £500,” and others
despatching such messages as “ Heaven’s sake,
£so—trouble.” Hundreds of men are out of work
now because the “representative Australians”
are forced to economise in this country for their
lavish use of hansoms in another, and, conse-
quently, are making one employe do the work of
two, and a few, at all events, when they come
back from Yurrup, will have little more than a
Parisian hat, a mortgage, and a distinguished
haspect to divide among their creditors.
* * *
An anecdote of a certain remarkable
pianist, who was in Australia lately. When on
ship-board, and en route for the Land of the
Golden Fleece, he would appear upon deck, and,
plumping himself down beside an American
heiress, who was one of his compagnons de voyage,
would exclaim : “ I have had such a lovely bath
this morning,” or “ It was too cold for a bath this
morning.” In the latter event the lady would
endeavor, we presume, to get to leeward of the
genius.
* * *
The hospitable and good-natured Mrs.
Malaprop, of “ the Point,” not long ago observed
to a visitor that a certain poor man ‘ ‘ had broken
his collar bone and fractured his ::kull—the doctors
all said it was a wonder he hadn’t sustained com-
passion of the brain.” Tho same Mrs. M., it is
stated, on the very best possible authority, i?
shortly going to have her drawing-room ceiling
“ fricasseed,” and she “ means at an early date to
give a big ball nolens volens.”
* * *
“ October 22, at Mittagong, by the Rev. F. O. Williams
Henry, youngest son of the late Henry Toose, of Burwood,
to Angelina, eldest daughter of Edward Boote, surgeon,
Moruya.” S.M. Herald, October 26.
No apter day could e’er be found
To knot young Hymen’s noose ;
The month e’en echos back the sound,
And comes in twos and twos.
Astonished verger, all agape,
The ceremony views,
As pretty lips their promise shape,
And Booty’s sighs nnimmr, “ Twos.”
The distant roll of civilisation’s drum is
heard at Bourke, N.S.W. In that torrid town
they have a club, and in that club is displayed a
notice bearing in paster-type the legend—
MEMBERS JiRE REQUESTED TO USE THE SPIT-
TOONS.”
* * *
“ Pendiagon ” devotes twenty lines in the
Referee to letting people know that he was in-
vited to dine at Government House, Sydney
Pooh! Why even Lord Bertie dines at Govern-
ament House, Sydney.
* * *
Another _ peer in embryo has landed
in good condition, and accorded his noble patron-
age to the Melbourne Cup. We refer to Yiscount
.Beerhurst, eldest son of the Earl of Coventry. A
taste for the turf runs in the family, and we
believe the Viscourthas been “trying to find’em.”
We tiust he did find’em. Sydney society may
have to wait for the Yiscount, as Sir Henry Loch
intends capturing him for a hade-de-kong, we
hear. The Sydney papers have a telegram that
his lordship is 21 years of age, and unmarried.”
.More couldn’t have been said in a whole column.
* * *
lijian society has been convulsed to its
very foundations by the death of its Albert
Edward, in the person of Ratu Joe, son of
Thakombau, late King of Fiii. The dusky prince
was at one time in Sydney, and a pupil at Newing
ton College. At that seat of learning he was
taught all that a prince should know, and learned
a few things he might have done better without.
It was hoped by both missionaries and loyalists
that the royal boy would get so imbued with the
influences of Christian civilisation that on his re-
turn to his native country he would give up eating
Gospel agents, and turn from the ways of his
fathers. It cannot be said that all these expecta-
tions were realised. True, ho gave up missionary
pie as he found mutton more to his taste, but he
got so confused as to the relative values of rum
and true religion that he took them in equal
quantities with the result that the former killed
A VETERAN PRESSMAN.
him in spite of thv latter. It was sincerely hoped
by all good parsons that Joe would equal any
European in social refinement and culture ; but the
courtly example of our R. B. Smith, and our only
P.C., somehow lost effect as the prince found him-
self once more amidst the banana-groves and
dusky virgins of his country. We are told that
his “ lapse to savage ways caused great grief to
the friends of the Polynesian.” No doubt. It
went far to show that money cannot be worse in-
vested than in trying to civilize tho body and
Christianise the soul of “ our dark brother.”
** * *
A new publication, Woman’s World, has
appeared in Melbourne. Its main object is alleged
to be “ the encouragement of the literary talent ”
known to be smouldering in the breasts of Mel-
bourne women of all ranks and sizes. Keeping
that object strictly in view, the proprietors offer
a series of prizes on a scale fixed by women for
women. And thus it is that the outside man, for
he has no part or lot in this production, arrives at
an opinion as to what, value a woman sets on
another woman’s words. The editress asks for
the best Australian serial story, not to exceed
ten chapters of 3000 words each, the prize to be
£5!” This is equal to the splendid rate of half-a-
crown per column for the “best” Australian tale.
Women of Melbourne are to leave their wash-tub
and hashmaking duties, neglect their babies and
buttons, spoil pens, ink, and paper in the eager
pursuit of fame and fabulous wealth! Twenty-
five words a penny ! That is what one woman
values another woman’s words at ! Does this in-
clude the “last” word that the gentler sex so
prize? We doubt it. We fancy that word is
beyond price. Twenty-five any other words only
a penny—but nothing less than the riches of Ind
could buy the whole total and exclusive right to
the “last word.”
* * *
Over a hundred ladies and gentlemen,
many of them well-known in Sydney “society,”
responded to the invitation of Captain T. D.
Shallard, of the R. M. S. Massilia, ,to a dance on
board, his ship on Wednesday evening, the 27th
ult. Tho affair was a great success.
The very recentmost fad in London and
American “ sassiety ” is the retention by ladies of
their maiden names after mairiage, in conjunction
with the names thrust upon them by that cere-
mony. All ladies of money-making celebrity
have caught on to the new idea, and some have
gone better still, by squelching their married
names altogether. With an actress, or any other
lady in a public business, or profession, her name
is as much a trade-mark as the XX is on Guin-
ness stout, or the bull’s head on the Durham
mustard bottles, and she doesn't mean any longer
to allow her husband to infringe her patent. Even
the society lady is beginning to struggle against
the bald-headed old custom which endorses the
absolute completeness with which the maiden dies
when the bride is born on the wedding day. Then
again, we have sympathised with Edwin Drood
when he received his first pretty invitation to tea
from the home of his soul’s adored, and couldn’t
say for certain whether the missive was written
by his fair enslaver with the azure eyes and the
golden curls, or by her fat old mamma, who had
the perplexing right to sign herself Angelina, just
as did her lonely daughter. It seems clear,
therefore, that ere long it will be the uni-
versal fashion for all married women to
pin both their surnames together by a
hyphen, even though this rule may occasionally
bring about such ludicrous compounds as Roote-
Hog, Wilde-Bull, Drinkwater-Anbuste, or such
startlers as Huut-Emdowne, and Donker-Von
Dahm. Apropos of this, it is curious how ex-
tremes meet. The custom which is now clamour-
ing for admission into good fashionable society
has always been the established rule amongst the
true peasantry of Ireland. The peasant’s wife in
the remote districts retains her maiden name to
the last. It has as much vitality as a cat or the
irrepressible Osman Digna, and even on the morn
when a woman fastens on to her sixth husband it
turns up as fresh as a daisy from Daisyville. And
there is a strange but true story of how a man’s
life was saved by this custom. It was at the
Castlebar Assizes. The' man was charged with
wilful murder, and his wife, who, of course, was
legally incompetent as a witness, was the only
person whose evidence could save him. In per-
fect good faith she came up to the court, gave her
maiden name, and her evidence was duly taken
without her connection with the prisoner being
suspected by any one in the court. She proved a
conclusive alibi for her husband, who was ac-
quitted by the jury without leaving the box, and
the real wrongdoer soon afterwards turned
up and was promptly hanged.
* * *
■ The odor of putrescent sea-weed, dead
dogs, rats, and cats, is so intolerable at Double
Bay that very often the inhabitants get up at mid-
night to see if the “Centennial” has begun by
Premier Jennings opening the Bondi sewer.
* * *
The Victorian Militia had an exciting time
lait week, mounting guard over Carington and
the other Govs, as they duly came to hand. Car-
ington—bless his kind heart!—thought they were
a magnificent body of troops, and was with diffi-
culty restrained from shaking hands all round.
* * *
Mr. Henniker Heaton, M.P., has a law-
suit on hand, and the sum of sixpence is at stake-
Henniixer hired a cab the other day in London and
drove three miles—he says it was a little les«
while the cabby says it was a little more—foi
which he paid Is. 6d., and as he declined to hand
over tiie other sixpence he is being sued. From
this we think Henniker 11. is getting demoralised
by mixing with dukes and the like. The repre
sentative Australian, at the beginning of his
English career, generally begins by being
rather lavish, and thinks he is apeing the manners
of the British aristocracy, till presently he flnds
that the higher classes” of Great Britain are
the meanest of skinflints, and then the colonist
also sets to work to be as mean as his soul will
allow, and he generally succeeds. But Henniker
has lots of coin, and surely he must har e felt a
little ashamed when he, remembering the old.
Australian days, tendered eighteenpence to a poor
man and a hungry horse as payment for a three-
mile journey, and noted the look of weary con-
tempt which the horse east on him as if swished
its gaunt and exhausted tail, and muttered, “Ah
another representative Australian. Two of ’em
in one day means no oats to-night.” Even a cab-
horse knows the hardened Australian now, and
sighs a horse-sigh when it sees him enter the
vehicle. Having heard all the evidence, the de-
cision of The Bulletin is that Henniker pay
cabman his little sixpence with £lO expenses, ant
“shout” for the horse.
* * *
A Frisco young man, escorting a lady hoi
from a dance, was shot on the doorstep by l
parent, who seemed displeased with the arrange-
ment. Local papers are very indignant about tie
affair. So they ought to be. It is awfully hard
on the girl that she should loss her best mash, lie-
cause her father happens to get angry. ’
* * *
Spoff'orth’s bride, we are told by tie
always reliable Mr. Charles Lett, is “ Mis 3 Cac •
man, daughter of a wealthy gentleman in the t
trade. The young 4 demoness ’ is said to be ver r
amiable, and is decidedly good-looking. She h
only one brother and a sister, so papa s weal 1
has not to be very widely distributed.”
* * *
The glittering lady who doubtless thoug it
she would be regarded as self-sacrificing wh
she gushingly, designated Lady Carington
Our Own Queen of Beauty,” now writes of a ce
tain newly-married Sydney girl as “Our Bride
The Bulletin ventures to publicly consider th ,
this umj of the posiessive plural with respec;
to a bride is not consonant with the customs o '
pelite society.
* \ * *•
On I.3th in3t. a cake and flower fair is ,<>
be held at Neutral Bay, the proceeds to go to tl
fund of the local church. “As You Like It ”
also to be performed in the open air. The novelt
of the entertainment will probably draw a larg 5
attendance.
* * *
On Tuesday, the 2Gth ult., at All Saints
Bathurst. Mr. George E. WeAthefill, manager 0
the A.J.S. Bank, Ashtield, was married by Re
alter Ellis to Miss Emily Greville, daughter 0 !
Mn William Greville, Bathurst. The Cathedra
was beautifully ‘decorated with lovely flowers ant
ferns, and was crowded with interested gues ;s
and spectators. The bride looked very pretty i
her handsome bridal attire.
* - * *
The Mordaunt case all over again ! Accorc -
ing to an E. News cable, much sdnsation has bee
caused in England by alleged disclosures in coi -
nection with the “ Swagger ” case in which Lady
Colin Campbell sues for a divorce from her hus •
band, a brother of the Marquis of Lome. Th
cablegram says
. Th* ease was heard in Camera, and in consequenee th
wildest rumours have been circulated as to the grounds fo
the action ana the counter-charges that have been made. i
is alleged that the Prince of Wales has been in constant con
mumcation with Lady Colin Campbell, and that correspo ■
dence of a very questionable character has taken plac
between the Prince and her Ladyship. The Prince of Wale
has denied the truth of the allegations. Hut the correspo] -
dence has not been produced. This has led to an indignan
demand on the part of one section of the press for the pro-
auction of the letters. The Queen, it is said, has displayed
unusual interest in the matter, and has commanded th S
Duke of Argyle to leave no stone unturned to discover th
letters that the Prince wrote to Indy Campbell, so that he
Majesty may satisfy herself as to their contents.
The story is an old one—it has fat years past been
known that when this divorce case did come or,
the Prince Of Wales, an official high up in th
London Fire Brigade, and possibly one or tw
other notable personages, would be selected as co
respondents. Lady Colin is the daughter of Blood
the noted brewer. Her husband married her
for her beauty ; she presumably married him for
his title, notwithstanding that she and her
mother were aware that he was an absolute phy
sical wreck. As Albert Edward belongs to
most virtuous race, and has always led an ex
tremely virtuous life—furthermore, as he is to
Defend the Faith one day, there need be no hesi-
tation in believing his version of the story, just as
we all believed what he teld us in the Mordaunt
case. It is of course a matter of certainty that
should Bertie’s letters—his grammar is horrid—
be discovered by the Dook, the latter will at once
hand them to the Queen, who will turn them over
to the Radical papers on the mens conscia red
principle, just to let people see what a good boy
her Albert Edward is.
* * *
Memo, received from an English eloping
couple : “ We’ve eloped. Forgive us if you can,
and if you can’t, what will you do about it ? ”
* * #
Lady Loch’s garden party at Melbourne
last Friday passed off with eclat. Fully 2000
were present, including a large number of Sydney
people. Four Governors were amongst the
visitors. Lady Loch wore a beautiful dress of the
new purple shade, relieved by touches of white
lace, small bonnet and parasol to correspond
Lady Carington looked charming in a well-fitting
electric blue silk gown, with old gold sash placed
over bodice and skirt, a pretty bonnet to match.
Hundreds of white dresses of every make and
fashion were displayed ; also a very large number
of the crepe material. Cotton frocks were in the
ascendant.
* * *
On Wednesday, 27th ult., Lord and Lady
Carington and suite left for Melbourne by express
train, where they will remain for the Cup and
numerous other gay doings.
* * #
H.M.S. Nelson s. to be recalled ‘ ‘ because
she is regarded as too large to be docked - on the
Australian station.” It has seemingly taken the
Admiralty a good many years to find out that fact.
Sydney Evening News is loose in bio-
graphy. A day or two ago it said, “ Sir Arthur
Guinness has sold his brewery to a company for
£6,000,000. Is he to be made a peer, too? ” Un-
happily for the success of this paragraph with the
small joke attached, Sir Arthur has no brewery,
and he i$ a peer already. He had the brewery
once, but he sold it to his brother for £1,000,600 in
gold, and the Queen was so staggered when she
heard of the transaction that she at once called
the owner of all this coin to the Upper House as
Baron Ardilaun. The baronetcy, which was the
first step to rank, was gained by Arthur’s father,
who at a cost of £150,000 restored St. Patrick’s
Cathedral, Dublin, and built some large schools
for the poor, and it is recorded that an American
visitor once stood on a commanding point where
the church, the schools, and the brewery were all
visible together, and, overawed by their magnifi-
cence, h? declared that Guinness was the only
man he knew “who ran salvation, education, and
damnation all at once.” It is worth noting, too,
that education and salvation together only made
Guinness a baronet ; it was the other thing that
made him a peer.


4 OCLOCK TEA
On Thursday last H.M.S. Miranda left Sydney on her
return voyage for England.
Miss Pedley has issued invitations for an At Home to be
held in the Y.M.C.A. Hall, Pitt-street, on Saturday, Nov. 6.
On Wednesday evening, 27th ult., the first social in con-
nection with the Sydney and Union Baseball Clubs was held
at Needs’ rooms.
Mr. Purves, Q.C. (Vic.), gave Mr. Attorney-General Want
a dinner at the Melbourne Athenioum Club last week. The
bar was fully represented.
Sydney Baseball Clubs gave a social at Needs’ Rooms on
the 27th ult. It was in every way a success. Mr. G. F.
Stuart, U.S., and Mr. J. B. Laing were the Ms O. . •
“LaSocieta del Buon Amore” held their third annual
ball at Leigh House, Sydney, on the 26th ult. Decorations,
company, the dresses, and supper were all en suite. Dancing
was reluctantly abandoned at daylight.
A cake and flower show, organised by Mrs. Thomas Mort,
. was held at Greenoaks, Darling Point, on Wednesday after-
noon, the 27th ult. The proceeds, which amounted to over
£5O, are to be devoted to the Melanesian Mission.
Surprise parties are the fashion just now, and the other
' night the members of the Botany Social Club surprised Mr.
and Mrs. John Walsh at their residence, Bunnerong, Botany.
The visitors took their own supper and spent a very pleasant
evening, dancing and singing until a late hour. -
Parramatta, not to be behind the age, has a Dramatic
" Club, and last week they played “ London Assurance,” in the
. Victoria Theatre, to the intense delight of their friends and
enemies. The local critic describes the acting as “perfect,"
but as no one has described the critic we are unable to statv
' the exact value of his opinion. After the performance the
actors and audience adjourned to the Masonic Hall, and
with the aid of the Cumberland Band danced off some of the
effects of Parramatta Assurance.
The Primate and Mrs. Bany issued invitations for a garden
li irty to be held at Bishopscourt on Saturday afternoon, the
31th, but unfortunately Mrs. Barry was too ill to appear,
and the Bishop had to receive the guests alone. The elergy,
with their families, were well represented. The weather
was most favourable, with the exception of a small shower
of rain which came on about 4 o’clock, and rather alarmed
the wearers of smart frocks. However, it soon passed- over,
and the visitors returned to their homes in comfort. The
party terminated about 6 o'clock
- Stepfathers and guardians of orphan
Sydney Lancers are hereby informed that, accord-
ing to last week’s cablegram, there is a favourable
opening for these heroes in the island of Skye
(Scotland), where a good deal of hard fighting is
going on. In Skye, as in Ireland, the curse of
middlemen and agents, rack-rents, evictions, ab-
senteeism, and all the rest of the dreary round of
Tory tyranny has been going on for years, till at
last the people have risen in real earnest, and the
royal father-in-law who owns the territory is left
at a discount. The people of the island are a war-
like crowd, and hard to subdue. During the
Peninsular war Skye contributed 19 generals and,
it is said, 45,000 men—a greater number than now
inhabit-the district—to the British Army. The
country was depopulated that the people might
fight the battles of England, and now the power
of England is being exerted to crush the last
remnant of this gallant race. The guirilla war
which is now going on, however, is damaging to
the uniform and the nose of the British military
swell. Stones, sticks and turnips are the weapons em-
ployed, and many a red-coated dude has been
surprised to hear a sudden squash and a thud,
and has afterwards discovered that it was caused
by him striking the ground with a brick on top of
him. Evictions have been mostly stopped and
rents suspended, the British army not being large
enough to do all the bailiff duty required of it,
hut still every now and then a widow is turned
out of her thatched cottage by means of a surprise
and a forced march of Her Majesty’s troops, who
then raise cheers in honour of their own bravery
The result of the movement is still doubtful, hut
similar insurrections are threatening in a dozen
different parts ’ of Scotland, and in Ross-shire, the
Marquis of Stafford has been beaten at the poll by
a crofter who now sits in the House of Commons
—an upheaval which in the opinion of the average
Tory is more ominous than a dozen risings like
tliat of Skye,
“Does Sir Patrick Jennings work very
hard in his office 2 ” asked a N.Z. man the other
day. “ Yes, indeed,” was the reply, “it takes
him eight hours’ hard work every day to make up
his own mind.”
From that exemplary journal, the Mel-
bourne Herald :—“ A Christian Gentleman with
good address (single preferred) wanted to fill a re-
munerative and permanent position ; good recom-
mendations indispensable ; cash security. In-
tegrity, P. 0., Parramatta.” Cash security—
Humph !
A Melbourne boy, William Fitzdamme,
has been throwing stones at an old gentleman
named Tom Smith. Tom collared the boy, and
demanded his name. “Fitzdamme,” said the
urchin. Murmuring “ Damme ! I’ll give you
Fitz !” the outraged Tom handed his young as-
sailant over to a copper.
The stock of the Day Dawn and Wyndham
block (floated in London a week or two ago for
£480,000) are now worth about a million on
THE WORM WILL TURN.
SYDNEY CIVIL SERVICE DUDE (to Soup-kitchen boss): “YOU SEE, THE NEW
REGULATIONS COMPEL US TO PUT IN AN EXTRA HOUR PER DAY. I FOR
ONE WON’T STAND IT, AND HAVE RESIGNED; AND WILL NOW TROUBLE
YOU FOR SOME OF YOUR NASTY SOUP.”
London ’Change. What is thought of the venture
at Charters Towers is shown by the fact that
some of the old shareholders took out their
interests in scrip instead of in coin.
“ A London expert says that the tobacco
exhibited by N.S.W. in the Coloneries is strong
and rank.” This gives The Bulletin an oppor-
tunity of remarking that it is almost absolutely
impossible to obtain in London a pipe-full of tobacco
which an Australian bushman would think worth
smoking. The Englishman smoke? “ birds eye,”
a horrid mixture composed apparently of chopped-
up lucerne, monkeys eyebrows, and cigar-stumps.
There are not a dozen shops in London where you
can buy American cake tobacco, and when you do
encounter real Virginian you find each individual
bit of it wrapped up in a separate duty-stamp,
W'hich, of course, utterly spoils the weed. The
price demanded is extortionate—alleged Barrett’s
twist, for instance, costs about, 14s. per lb. at any
of the tobaeco-shons in the West End. 7he corn-
stalk who visits England will find it worth his
while to carry with him some good American
tobacco and pay the duty thereon, as it takes a
civilised Australian about eighteen months to get
used to the dog-hair and oow-tail mixtures sold by
thenoble London tradesman at fonrponoe-halfpenny
an ounce.
THE OLD MAN’S CHOICE.
“ There are three things of beauty I have seen—
Three things beside which other beauties pale.
One is. a ship at sea beneath full sail,
When all her canvas draws, whose tall masts lean,
While in her cordage sings the rising gale.
“ The second is a field of waiving wheat,
Grown tall and bright, and golden in the sun.
A fair young woman is the other one,
Which ends the trio of my graces sweet
That with the full-rigged vessel was begun.”
With four-score winters battered, bent and gray,
So spoke this man passed far beyond life's prime,
Yet answered, with a wealth of nerve sublime,
Unto my query : Which is fairest, pray 5”
“ My son, give me the woman every time.”
BRUNETTE.
[A PICTURE.]
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When tree? in Spring
Are blossoming,
My lady wakes
From dreams whose light
Made dark days bright,
For their sweet sakes.
Yet in her eyes
A shadow lies,
Of bygone mirth ;
And still she seems
To walk in dreams,
And not on earth.
Some men may hold
That hair of gold
Is lovelier
Than darker sheen :
They have not seen
My lady’s hair.
Her eyes are bright,
Her bosom white
As the sea-foam
On sharp rocks sprayed ;
Her mouth is made
Of honeycomb.
And whoso seeks
In’ her dusk cheeks
May see love’s sign,
A blush that glows
Like a red rose
Beneath brown wine.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
Poppies.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
These are the flowers of sleep,
They nod in the heavy moon
Ere the brown shades eastward creep,
To a drowsy and dreamful tune,
These are the flowers of sleep.
Love’s lilies are passion-pale ;
But these on the sun-kissed flood
Of the corn that rolls breast-deep
Burn redder than drops of blood
On a dead king’s golden mail.
Heart’s dearest, I would that we
These blooms of forgetfulness
Might bind on our brows and steep
Our love in Lethe ere less
Grow its flames with thee or me.
When Time with his evil eye
The beautiful Love has slain,
There is nought to gain or keep
Thereafter and all is vain—
Should we wait to see Love die ?
Sweetheart, of the joys men reap
We have reaped : ’tis time to rest.
Why should we wake hut to weep 2
Sleep and forgetting is best—
These are the flowers of sleep.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
THIS WICKED
WORLD
“ Pendragon, ” of the Referee, says that
Sydney Harbour is “without doubt the biggest
and most beautiful in the whole World.” There
now Jamberoo (N.S.W.) has decided in favour
of cremation In the last “ sham-fight at Bri -
bane a warrior got excited and fired a blank
cartridge right in the face of one of the enemy.
Then the other man got excited also, and fired
back, and they had a pleasant little duel all to
themselves A Sydney photographer announces
the receipt of an order for 3,000,000 photos of
William Beach. Portraits of the returning Aus-
tralian team of alleged cricketers are not in
similar demand A couple of Melbourne clergy-
men, whose hells clang hideously, complain that
the rumbling of the trams spoils their devotions.
On the Other hand, the, tramway people declare
that the church-bells are driving them and tbeii
horses into Yarra Bend Asylum At Townsville
(Q ,) recently, a youth, aged nine year», “insisted’
on his mother giving him half a glass of raw
brandy, and as she probably feared the dissipated
babe would clean out the town she consented in
order to quiet him. He drank off the liquor, and
died in a few hours Sir William Clarke, Bart.,
! of Victoria, has given £lOOO towards the Jubilee
- Institute. William has all along been in the
I Jubilee business Sergeants Barron and Grimes
| are called “ Wimb’edon heroes ” by Brisbane
j papers, because they hit buds’-eyes lo the value of
I £2 each The shares of the “Mount Morgan
! West gold-mine” are quoted a f 100 jer cent, pre
! mium in the London market, and yet Queensland
! mining men declare unanimously that there never
was such a mine as West Mount Morgan Vic-
toria contemplates establishing a military college
and fears are entertained that she may send an
army to- conquer Woolloomooloo Wyndham
(the port to Kimberley “gold-field”) is on its last
legs, and probably will, ere long, come down to
one “pub.” and a store. It is likely to remain so
until the back country is opened up for pastoral
purposes.
* * *
Dilke is “about to re-enter political
life as the proprietor and editor of a
London daily newspaper.” A torpedo in
the shape of a kernel of corn has been invented
for the use of farmers. A bird picks it up and
gets the top of its head blown oil at once The
son of an American 8,030,090-dollar aristocrat has
married the elderly, ugly, divorced wife of a
rather disreputable mechanic. His father is said
to be rather excited ~ Rev. It. 11. Hadden, a
guardian of the city of London Union, says “ he
thinks that “in pwiaper establishments a great deal
took place at Christmas time which is quite out of
place. . . he doesn’t want to make the people happy
on Christmas Day, but every day he w'ould like to
make them profoundly and horribly miserable. He
hoped the wheel, and oakum s-hed would be kept
going.” One Frosuiek, of Norwich (Eng.) in-
sured the lives of his two boys for £ll apiece ; a
month afterwards they fell out of a boat and were
drowned. Frosdick kept his composure well until
he came to relate how he went to “ dror the
money,” and found that he had omitted to pay
the last weekly subscription, so that the policy had
lapsed. At this point he broke down and sobbvd...
It is alleged that bees will gather a greater weigl t
of honey from a clover crop, than cows fed upen
it will yield in butter and cheese... ... r lhe Chineie
Emperor’s new throne i 3 to have its foundation
and pedestal made of gold bricks, and the Sub-
Prefect of Soochow has sent to Pekin 3000 pieces
of gold, of the ordinary size of clay bricks, fer
this purpose. China is the place for a campaigr t
ln London, it is found that the majority of
the people who object to the regulation which
secures human beings from thv risk of hydro-
phobia are women "...The Volta, an English tor-
pedo boat, propelled by electricity, has travelled
at the rate of 14 knots per hour. The machinery
is absolutely noiseless A philosophical exchange
touches the bedrock of eternal truth by observing :
“ If every person were half as good as he expects
his neighbour to be, what a heavenly world w e
should have!” In England the other day a
woman died suddenly, and the doctor gave it as
his opinion that death had been caused by spasms
of the heart, induced by the explosive typhcoi s
pridueed within her by ginger beer Liszt's
funeral procession at Eayreuth was headed by tl.e
local fire-brigade. Some very vengeful parson
must have arranged thu Guinness’ brev; ery li;. s
been bought by a public company for £6,000,000.
There were applications for £121,000,000 worth of
shares.
The Rockhampton (Q.) Bulletin has
taken to summing up the Anarchist party. it
says an Anarchist is “ a man who has resolved to
go hack to first princ'p’es. He has not any prin-
ciples to go back to, hut he is resolved to go back
all the same.”
Advt. from Northern Star (Lismorc,
N.S.W.)“ Dur.can and Munro will sell by auc-
tion, on Saturday, 23rd October, at 2 o’clock, at
Clancy’s Star Hotel Sale Yards, North Lismore,
10 head of 3 and lf-yeai' old Store Bullocks , alt
milkers ; calves very quiet. A rare chance fo v
owners of artificial grass paddocks.” Duncan, ha’
ye got any workin’ cowi to sell 2
The cable informs us that Sir Saul Samuel,
who, having been in London for some years, should
know a little about the matter, openly opposes
“ Wales’ ” idea that the colonial Agencies-Gener&l
should be shifted from Victoria-street, West-
minster, to the proposed Imperial Jubilee Insti-
tute at South Kensington. Graham Berry, as
might have been expected, is on the Prince’s side,
and, as might also have been anticipated, “the
general consensus of opinion was in the direction
of executing the wishes of the Prince.”
A yarn from North Queensland :
Mac——, who owns a station on the lower Flin-
ders, is not a good bushman, and approaching the
head-station one night about 9 p.nt. he entered »
clump of gidya timber some quarter of a mile'
square, in which he circled till 3 a.m.—‘' ringing ’
in his own tracks —when he emerged at his own
verandah. In the morning, conversing at breal -
fast with his manager about some fencing proposed
to be done, he remarked, “ Talk about no timber
on the run—miles o’ gory gidya—miles o’ gory
gidya—riding thro’ it six ruddy hours last night—
My word ! ”
David Buchanan, who has just now nothing
to do but write to the Erglish newspapers, pro
tests in the Times against bung charged inconn -
tax while he is only a visitor in Ergland. This
little income-tax affair will serve as an admirable
corrective to the flatulent “loyalty ” of the
“ colonial gang,” who, if they h-d nothing to
grumble at, might absolutely burst with Im-
perialism. David is i roverbially cautious about
the bawbees, and if the Income-tax Commis-
sioners insist upon di agging out his saxpeiu es
we shall soon have him back in Australia in his
old barristerial role of saviour of the gentle cattle -
duffer and the enteri rising horse-thic f.
The Singleton (N.S.W.) assault case is
another nasty jar to the Sydney Press. When
first announced the “ outrage ” consisted of equal
parts of maidenly modesty and “lair kin
brutality,” but the evidenee discloses a very dif
ferent story. The prosecutrix is sworn to have
been addicted to drink. She owned that her code of
morality had not been a very strict one, and it
was further proved that she had been fined fer in-
decent exposure. These circumstances have a
tendency to lower her down from the lofty
pedestal on which she was placed by our gushing
contemps. There is, after all, nothing whatevi r
in this case to disprove the assertion thatavirtuous
and modest girl is as safe in N.S.W. as in any other
part of the world.
A curious human monstrosily has come to
light in France in the person of a Provencal of
thirty, named Simeon Aiguicr, who, thanks to
his peculiar system of muscles and nerves, can
transform himself in most wondrous fashion. At
one moment, assuming the rigidity of a statue,
his body may be struck sharply, the blows falling
as on a block of stone. At another he moves his
stomach from above and below and from right
to left into the form of a football, and projects it
forwards, which gived him the appearance of a
colossally stout personage. He then withdraws it
into the thorax opening like a cage, and the hollow
look of his body immediately reminds one of a
skeleton. Aiguier successfully imitates a man
subjected to the tortures of the rack, as also a
man hanging himself, and assumes a strikingly
cadaveric look. What most astonished the doctors
was the stoppage of the blood, now on the left and
now on the right side, which was effected by
muscular contraction.
Well-known in North Queensland is Louis
Severin, the present Mayor of Cairns. At one
time Louis resided in Cooktown. He lived near
the bank of a small creek at the front of the
town. One day he got a live turtle from some
beche-de-mer lisherB and chained him up in the
back yard with chain enough to allow him to go
into the water. And the following night was the
full moon, and Louis, who is a Frenchman, was
seated in his wigwam about 9 o’clock, meditating
over various mundane matters, when he was
roused from his reverie by a tremendous discharge
of musketry at the rear. Louis rushed out
brandishing an old sword used by one of his
ancestors at the capture of the Bastille, and found
all the Cooktown police force and a battalion of
citizens platoon-firing at the turtle, under the
belief that it was a crocodile of gigantic dimen-
sions. The turtle was an the water rising and
sinking alternately, and every time his back showed
on the surface it was saluted by a wild fusillade
from all points of the compass. Then Louis lifted
up his voice and expressed his opinions in four
languages, all of them unfit for publication and
the police and the citizen guerillas sneaked away
to the nearest hotels, and the turtle crawled out
on the shore without a scratch on him and wonj
dered what in thunder it was ail about. .


THE VERDICT OF TRUTH.
Fair Truth, who lives—so the legends say—
At the bottom of a well,
Came to the surface the other day
To search for facts as a goddess may,
When she has a doubt to quell.
She’d read all the advertising lore,
Touching diff rent kinds of beer,
And knew that some of the traders swore
And looked and felt uncommonly sore,
About one they’d cause to fear.
So she gather’d opinions all around
And put them all to test;
And none can question her judgment sound,
For the more she search’d the more she found
That Clausen’s Lager was best.
And the lovely eyes of the goddess gleam’d
As she spoke in her own good name :
Let this my verdict be x-ightly deem’d ;
Let the voice of Truth be well esteem d ;
Hand the “ Phoenix” brand to Fame.
Let it be Truth’s ; ’Tis the only one
That’s worthy my name to bear ;
Let Clausen's Lager henceforth be known
As the one that stands by itself alone ;
For, like Truth itself, ’tis rare.
CLAUSEN’S CHAMPAGNE LAGER.
THE AMERICAN PRIZE BEER.
Ia kept in all First-class Hotels everywhere, and
everybody drinks it.
It is the finest tonic that can be administered,
and is recommended to patients of weak constitu-
tions and nervous temperaments by the most pro-
minent physicians, in preference to all other
brands, as the purest and most wholesome
stimulant obtainable.
The following excerpts are from a mass of favor-
able testimony :
“THE BEST ON THE MARKET.”
Messrs. Lucas Bros., wine and spirit merchants,
of 16, Pitt-street, write: —“With great pleasure
we add our testimony to the merits and great
superiority of Clausen’s Lager Beer. We have
been supplying it wholesale to our customers all
over the colony for some time. It has given
them the greatest satisfaction, and we feel bound
to say it is the best Lager Beer that has yet been
placed on this market. The bottles have largo
contents, the beer is entirely free from sediment,
is clear, bright, and sparkling, and above all re-
freshes without producing drowsiness. We find
its well-deserved patronage daily increasing,”
“SUPERIOR TO EVERY OTHER BRAND.”
Mr. Fred W. Forster, of the Theatre Royal
Hotel, say.:. : —“Having had considerable ex-
perience in America, where Lager is considered
the national drink, I have much pleasure in inform-
ing you that I have found Clausen’s Champagne
Lager Beer superior to every other brand. I have
had it on sale here ever since its introduction, and
am pleased to state that it has given unqualified
satisfaction to my patrons, all of whom speak of
it in the highest terms, and prefer it to every other
for its brightness, flavor, and purity. From a trade
point of view I have never had a single breakage
to complain of, or a bottle in bad condition ; and
can honestly recommend it as a perfect Lager in
every respect. It is entirely free from sediment
and waste, and is undoubtedly the leading brand
in the market, and in my opinion will long remain
so.
“ IN EVERY WAY PLEASED WITH IT.”
Mr. Harry R. Boulton, of Pfahlert’s Hotel,
Wy n y ard -a q uar e, says : —“ I have much pleasure
in testifying to the excellence of Clausen’s Cham-
pagne Lager Beer, which I have handled since
taking the above hotel. lam in every way pleased
with it, and for freedom from sediment, and excel-
lence of flavor, I have every confidence in recom-
mending it to the trade and the public generally.”
“ENTIRE SATISFACTION.”
Mr. Danie’ Sullivan, of the Brisbane Cafe,
George-street, says Clausen’s Champagne
Lager Beer gives my patrons entire satisfaction.
For brightness, purity, and flavor I consider it un-
equalled, and every person seeking a light refresh-
ing drink, which will invigorate without intoxi-
cating, and refresh without promoting drowsiness,
should sample a bottle of Clausen’s Lager.”
“ GREAT SUPERIORITY.”
Mr. G. F. Baker, proprietor of the Pastoral
Hotel, Wagga, says “ I have great pleasure in
bearing testimony to the great superiority of Clau-
sen’s Lager Beer. My customers approve of it,
and rarely ask for any other brand.”
“ FAR EXCELS ANY BEER.”
Mr. Bryan Ferry, of the Advance Australia
Hotel, Newtown, Wagga, says—“l have great
pleasure indeed in testifying to the excellence of
Clausen’s Lager Beer. It is pronounced by all my
customers to far excel any beers of a like
character.”
“ THE FAVORITE BRAND.”
Mr. F. L. Richardson, of the Albion Hotel,
Forbes, says “ I have great pleasure in recom-
mending H. Clausen and Son’s brand of Lager
Beer. It is the favorite brand with my custo-
mers, and during hot months the demand for it is
large.”
“ EXCELLENT QUALITY AND PURITY.”
Mr. Charles Stock well, of the Freemasons’ Hotel,
Molong, says “I have much pleasure in testi-
fying to the excellent quality and purity of Clau-
sen’s Champagne Lager Beer. It has given great
satisfaction to the numerous customers visiting
my hotel.”
It can be obtained from Messrs. Mason
Bros., limited, Fesq and Co., Tooth and Co.,
Allt and Co., Burrows and Gleeson, S. Bennett
and Co., Lucas Bros., Cornellion and Co., R.
Butcher and Co., J. T. and J. Toohey and
Co., Tidswell, Wilson and A Thompson and Co.
C. Bath and Co., Cooper, Nathan, and Co., Darcy
and Co., A. Rowan and Co., Tucker and Co..
and Stewart and Co.
“THE DARNED APPARATUS THAT CAN’T LIE.”
YET HE SURPRISES HOUSEHOLDERS SOMETIMES, FOR ALL THAT.
HOW IT HAPPENED.
“I can never dine at home now,” said young
Mr. Parisgreen to a bachelor friend as he stepped
into a restaurant, “and I tell you this feeding-
outside business is keeping me mighty poor.”
“ And why not! You have a good cook; your
wife is an excellent housekeeper. I never got a
better dinner in my life than the time I sat down
at your hospitable table,” remarked the friend in
much wonderment. “I will tell you,” said the
exile, sadly. “About a week ago, in a moment
of mental aberration, I kissed the domestic who
carries the dishes to and from my hospitable table,
as you are pleased to term it.” “ Pooh, pooh, a
trivial occurrence,” said the friend, warmly ; “ a
very pretty girl, as I remember. I would have
kissed her myself, sir, without hesitation, had the
opportunity offered.” “No doubt, no doubt,” re-
plied the benedict, mournfully; ‘ ‘ but then you
don’t live in the house, you know. Now, ever
since I kissed that young person she labours under
the delusion that she owns me. When she brings
in the soup tureen she leans lovingly against the
chair and mashes me in the most reckless and
positive manner. When she hands me the carvers
she endeavours to squeeze my hand, and she
pauses at the door leading into the kitchen to
thrill me with a parting glance of unutterable
affection. And all this time, wTiile I am making
a pretext of enjoying my dinner, the cold perspira-
tion is running down my hack, for my wife has an
eye like a hawk for this sort of phenomena, and I
don’t know the moment she will drop on it and
denounce me. No, no; home and I must be
strangers until that young female is discharged,”
and the victim of a momentary folly ate his soup
in intense and affecting melancholy, and then ad-
journed to find consolation before the mirror,
viewing his perfect-fitting, stylish Scotch tweed
suit bought for £3 3s. from Summerfield and Com-
pany, the well-known Merchant Tailors, 235 and
237 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Wine !—Reliable Old Australian Wines, selected vintages,
for invalids, families, and connoisseurs. Only Sold by
Hockings, 143 Pitt-street.
Certainly one of the most successful City Hotels, in respect
of first-class Wines, Spirits, &c., and with regard to Lun-
cheon, is Hanney’s Great Northern Hotel, Charlotte-place.
A first-class Luncheon is provided from 12 to 3, which is
patronised by the commercial men in this part of the city.
Just make one call, and we are sure you will be satisfied.*
IYNCH FAMILY BELLRINGERS.
J (Organised, 1867.)
Manager Mr. Harry Lynch.
During next week the Company will re-visit
Petersham, Botany, Five Dock, Kogarali, &c.,
and shortly at Maitland, Newcastle, &c., &c.
JAMES SMITH )
H. F. BARNES /
Advance
Agents.
sdf
, r -
-.c, 1 -
•»<s* >l/’^
'To'v
ilipp
A Good Remedy for a Cold. —On going to bed
take a dose of Freeman’s Chlorodyne, either in
water or camphor mixture. The diaphoretic action
of this excellent remedy speedily produces a
general glow, followed by a free perspiration, dur-
ing which the pulse improves in character from a
feeble to a full, elastic one, a good night’s sleep is
obtained, and on waking in the morning the cold
will be found to have dissapeared. The certainty
of the action of Freeman’s Chlorodyne is very re-
markable in Ague ; it frequently prevents an
attack, or, failing this, reduces the violence of the
ague fit to a minimum. In many countries Free-
man’s Chlorodyne has entirely superseded the use
of Quinine, and in the tea gardens of India noth-
ing else is given for Ague and other forms of Fever.
Insist upon having “Freeman’s” only. Trade
mark, an Elephant.—obtainable from all chemists
and storekeepers.
Mittchell’s old established and reliable original
reform chemist shop, 141 King-street, was recently
purchased by A. A. Rigney, of Bega, who will
conduct both establishments on the standard prin-
ciples for which he is well known.
Premier ball-room decorators of New South Wales. Sale
and Dare, decorators. Ball and banquet ro -ms tastefully
decorated with flag and floral decorations, 60J Hunter-street
Sydney. *
TAKE WARNING:
At this season of the year when so many people become
subject to attacks of biliousness, kidney troubles, constipa-
tion and all the list of Doubles tint aris i from being housed
up, or that are brought on by c ids and exposure, it is the
part of prudence to take warning from the experience of
others and provide ourselves with the means of escape from
similar troubles: So wide is the fame of Dr. Bell's Bitters,
that great remedy for all kidney and liver trouble, that
almost everyone knows of its great virtue for such cases. It
should be kept in every household ready for an emergency.
GOLD MEDALS.
To refute the audacious statements made by
other brewers of American Lager Beer, who
advertise that they have taken first honors at
various world exhibitions, the Anheuser Buscli
Brewing Association of St. Louis, who alone took
first honors at Philadelphia, Paris, Amsterdam,
&c., See., have sent their gold medals and diplomas
for inspection by the Australian public. They
are now on view at our office, 111 Pitt-street.
BUTCHER, FEHON and CO.,
Sole Agents for St. Louis Lager Beer.
KW THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
J. V. WARHEAM, Manager.
COOLALTA WINES
(SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX),
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 GEORGE STREET
(Beneath Paling’^.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF SPRING GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prices.
Just recently the Elgin National Watch Co m-
pany, of Chicago, Illinois, has opened a branch
under the management of Mr. Donald Manson, ab
Elgin-buildings, a few doors from Pfahlert’s Hotel,
Wynyard-square, Sydney. Mr. Manson has been
appointed manager of the company for Australasia,
India, China, and Japan, and it is intended that
the company’s business with these countries shall
be conducted from the Sydney agency. The
watchmaking industry, as carried on by this com-
pany, has attained such vast proportions, and the
workmanship in each watch, even to the minutest
parts, is of such a mathematically accurate
character that some description of the works will
be of general interest. The cnmpany was or*
ganised and licensed as “ The Elgin National
Watch Company of Chicago, Illinois,” on Angust
27, 1861, with an authorised capital of 500,000
dollars, but by an Act amendatory of the charter,
and approved on January 28, 1869, the authorised
capital was increased to 2,000,000 dollars, the
present capital of the company, and, as an evidence
of the success of the enterprise, the reserve fund
now amounts to 1,200,000 dollars, which, together
with the capital, represents a sum total equal to
£610,000. The watch factory in the city of Elgin,
Illinois, is built of brick and stone on about 22
acres of land. Connected with the main building
are the engine and boiler houses, the former con-
taining! woBo-hcr3epower Brown’s engines, to wo k
separately, or together; and the latter eight pairs
of boilers. To provide in part for the accommoda-
tion of over 3000 of its employees, the company
has built a number of cottages : also a large
boarding-house, with rooms warmed by steam-
pipes, and lighted by gas, the dining-room being
fitted with seating accomodaiton for 500 persons,
whilst for their comfort a large parlour, is hung
with pictures and provided with musical instru-
ments, libraries, and the current papers and
magazines. So much for what may be termed the
social life of the establishment. Referring to the
factory itself, the buildings cover an area of ov<sr
5 acres of ground. The length of the benches
on which the operatives sit at work would, if
placed in a row, extend over 4 miles, and the
shafting over 4j miles. At the Elgin factory, for
certain kinds of work, female operatives are pre-
ferred, on acount of their greater delicacy and
rapidity of manipulation, and it should be added
that women get the same wages as men for doing
the same kind and amount of work. As to the
work connected with the manufacture of the
watches, the greatest pains are taken by the
Elgin Watch Company in perfecting the original
model. Every variety of design and appliance
that human ingenuity can devise is sought for :
and a retinue of special artists, draughtsmen, and
inventors is continually busy to make each part
and process as economical and accurate as possible.
The “Elgin watch” is composed of 175 different
pieces, comprising upwards of 3400 separate and
distinct mechanical operations in its manufacture.
The Elgin Company manufacture 65 grades of
watches, which vary in price fiom 50s. to £lOO
each. The movements or works are made from
the finest quality nickel, steel, and brass, and the
cases which cover the movements of gold or silver.
All grades of Elgin watches are made with com-
pensating balances, hence their accuracy as time-
keepers. The watches are made on the inter-
changeable principle, so that if one piece should
break it can be replaced by a new one, to be ob-
tained of any reliable watchmaker, or at the
branch office of the company. These Watches can
be changed from a silver to a gold case without
loss of time or danger of having the wbrks spoiled
by taking them to pieces to have a new case made
of two plates with the wheels, &c., between.
The nicety of work required calls for marvellously
perfect machinery in the manufacture, and in this
respect the screw-making machines are wonders
of this invention, doing their work silently with a
nicety of precision that is almost more than
human. Twenty of these automatic machines
make from four to five thousand screws per day,
exclusive of night work. To show the class of
workf we may state that from a roll of steel wire
costing the company five dollars, they can make
200,000 screws weighing only one pound and
worth 1500 dollars. The thread on the smallest
screw is so fine as to be almost microscopic, and
measurements have to be made by a fine-gauge
micrometer which will verify to within one two-
thousandth of a centimetre, that is to one-tenth
the thickness of a human hair.
After reading the foregoing, which we extract
from the S.M. Herald of October 30, the next
questions i-, of course, how is one to get an Elgin
Watch? In the meantime it will suffice to men-
tion that the Oriental Gold Co. having, after close
and long investigation, satisfied itself that the
Elgin is the best Watch in the world, and the
best value in all grades, has taken this line as a
specialty, and will henceforth handle no other
watch. This Company will post a sample Watch
of any grade or price to any address in the
colonies on its usual liberal terms. A Week’s trial
allowed. If not satisfied return the Watch un-
injured, and the money will be restored, less
postages. Not many quotations can be given this
week, but no one can go wrong in seizing this
single chance.
S 3 In order to introduce these watches, and open
up business, we offer THIS ONCE ONLY a
special advantage. We will fill all orders for a
single Watch which are sent to us, accompanied
by this coupon, before the end of the year. We
will not send more than one Watch to any person.
We will not send the Watch at the price unless
the coupon accompanies the order.
TO THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO., SYDNEY.
Picas© forward one Elgln|Co.’s Watch,
ore-silver case, for which 1 enclose 455.
This requires a word of explanation. Almost the
entire value here is centered in the movement of the
Watch. The case is the cheapest made. “ Ore-
silver ” is a new white metal, manufactured and
controlled exclusively by the Elgin Company, and
wears and looks equtPto sterling. We shall never
make this offer again. Without the Coupon the
price of the Watch is 50s. The Watch is in
hunting-case or open-faced crystal, as you may
prefer, stem-winding, and will last a life-time.
Further, if you don’t like it when you have had it
a week send it back, and your money shall be re-
turned, less postage. But you will like it. Next
week we will give a priced list of a number of
styles in sterling silver and gold cases.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.,
ESTABLISHED 1882.
George-street, Sydney.


ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS
AMERICAN BUGGIES,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
BJMimiM.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY
SPECIALLY IMPORTED FOR CITY OR COUNTRY USE.
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY,
AT
Lowest Prices.
mn w go
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
EVERY VEHICLE GUARANTEED.
Theatre roya
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrov
Lessee, Mr. Sam. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. G.
L. Goodman. Stage Manager, Mr. John Wallac
Doors open at 7.30 ; commence at 8 ;
carriages, 18.30.
WILLIAMSON, GARNER, and MUSGROVE
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
(now in the fifth year of its existence).
THE SORCERER and TRIAL BY JURY
will be repeated TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY)
and To-morrow Night (Friday).
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 6,
Grand re-production of Audran’s comic Opera,
LA MASCOTTE.
Prices—Dress Circle, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Upp
Circle, Is. Box Plan open at Theatre daily fro
10 till 5. Tickets for all parts at Eastway’s Hot
Alhambra music hal
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smit
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Ship
THE GREATEST SUCCESS OF THE DAY.
Deafening Applause meets our
Great Australian Comique,
Mr. W. B. WARNER.
Also, the American Dancers and Song and Dan
Artists,
The RILEY BROTHERS,
Songs of Minstrelsy and Mirth
EVERY EVENING.
Popular Priees: Orchestra Chairs, 2s. ; Stall
Is. ; Balcony, 6<L
Grand Concert Spirituel Every Sunday Evenin
at 7.30.
Academy of music
Lessee Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickard
EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock,
THE RICKARDS-LEETE COMPANY,
Mr. Harry Rickards and his powerful company
London Speciality Artists.
Academy of Music, Sydney, To Let at the cor
elusion of Mr. Rickard’s Season.
Academy of Music, Launceston, To Let fror
Monday, January 10, for two weeks.
Treas. Mr. Sydney Hall. Gen. Man. Mr. P. Stuai
THE ROYAL POLYTECHNI
OPEN DAILY
from 1.0 a.m. till 5 p.m., and from 7 till 10 p.m
490 George-street opposite the markets.
A POPULAR PLACE OF AMUSEMENT,
A SCIENTIFIC AND MECHANICAL EXHI
BITION.
Steam and Electro-magnetic Machines in motion, Th
Eairy Grotto, Graphosoopes, Stereoscopes, Praxiniscopes, th
yranista (the most wonderful Automatic Pianoforte playe
he world). Views in all Countries, the Pastime Tables
Umldren’s Corner for Games and Puzzles, Mechanical Figures
the Peacock’s Parade, the Firemen Rescuing Life, the Bea
”*t, the engraver at Work etching on glass, Curios, Fountains
Refreshments of the most recherche kind, under the abl
superintendence of Mr. Harrington of the Royal Con
fectionery Co.
ADMISSION, ONE SHILLING; CHILDREN SIXPENCE
RUSTON PROCTOR & CO.’S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
“TRIUMPH” THRASHING MACHINES.
Simon’s Roller System of Flour Milling.
Sole Agents:
E. C. ELLIOTT & CO.,
617 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS, N. AND C.
DIVISION,
and Herberton Railway—Section 2.
' I TENDERS are invited for the Construction of
«the Second Section of the Cairns and Herber-
Railway— in length fifteen miles twenty chains
in accordance with Plans, -ections, Drawings,
eneral Conditions, and Specifications, which may
e seen at the Offices of the Chief Engineer,
turns and Townsville, and at tßp Office of the
ommissioner for Railways, Cnsbane, on and
lssr' MONDAY, the 15th day of November,
where also forms of Tender and other infor-
mation can be obtained.
c, „ en ders, endor-red “ Tender for Construction of
Section of Cairns and Herberton Rail-
must be deposited at the Office of the Com-
aioner for Railways, not later than Four o’clock
'ml * RIDAY, the 14 day of January, 18S7.
accept'd 8 *" ° r r *' en<^cr w tU n °t necessarily
WM. MILES,
Rnim, Secretary for Public Works.
ail way Department,
Brisbane, Bth October, 1886.
E
Y
I>M. R I L
** * (late of the Detective Force),
Piivate Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
42 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
confidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
divorce- libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
carriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
Kents and debts collected. From R. M. R.’s long experience
in the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
New Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
globe.he is in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
fiiv:uiti.n and strictest secresy, and to faithfully and
rrontt v attend to all business entrusted to h care.
THE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY
(ESTABLISHED 1869).
Paid-up Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund, £155,000
Directors
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C.
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary :
Hector Allen.
Branches : Hay market, Pyrmont, Redfern, Goaford, Ny
gan, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonard’s, Newcastl
and Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
London Bankers: The National Provincial Bank
England.
Under the Patronage of His Excellency,
Lord Carrington.
joror ioake
TOBACCONIST,
HAS just landed 200 dozen well-assorte
STICKS from the principal manufactory i
Paris, and offers them to his patrons and th
general public at prices suitable to all.
GOLD, SILVER, and NICKEL MOUNTED,
in great variety, and even the most fastidiou
cannot fail to be suited.
Establishments :
446 & 320 GEORGE STREET
AND
PALL MALL,
33 Hunter-street, Sydney
BEDDING! BEDDING! BEDDING I
The same old saying—You Can’t Beat Lawler s
THERE YOU CAN GET a Hair Mattress, ant
no better BOX SPRING MATTRESS was
ever made than those made by LAWLER.
It is literally a mass of spiral springs, heavily
webbed, and thoroughly upholstered in best curled
hair.
Note.—No wire mattress ever made affords
such refreshing rest or can be depended upon as
can the Box Spring Mattress turned out at
608 GEORGE STREE
KAPOK, soft as Eider Down, at “LA WLER S.’
None but the celebrated “ Samarang’’-grown
Java Kapox stocked.
No second quality of Kapox at “ Lawler’s.”
Flock and Fibre Mattresses, ready for daily
delivery, at Lawler’s.
Wire Mattresses, all sizes, by all makers.
Palliasses, from best long-cut straw three
qualities.
Purchasers will save money, and, in the end,
worry, by buying at
LAWLER’S 008 George-street, Sydney,
Thousands of people have tried
AND PROVED THAT
FATHER WOLFREY’S WORM POWDERS
are the best every way for children and adults.
Prepared only oy the undersigned. Price, 6d.
each; by post 7d. When ordering please state
age of patient.
EAMES’
HOREHOUND
AND
COLTSFOOT
SYRUP.
W '
The best medi
cine for reliev-
ing coughs,
colds, hoarse-
ness. &c. It has
a great sale in
Sydney. Price,
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d
per bottle.
EAMES’ ANTIBILIOUS PILLS.
Send for list of testimonials. Price, Is., Is. 6d.,
and 2s. per box. By post 2d. extra.
The above may be procured through any chemist
or storekeeper, or direct from
W. D. EAMES, CHEMIST,
Apothecaries’ Hall,
14, OXFORD-STEEET, SYDNEY.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, November 2, 1886,
lENDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the lowing PL BLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten-
ders are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the low r est or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Erection of Pumper’s House,
Wilgiu, Great Western Rail-
way
Erection of Pumper’s House,
Byrock, Great Western Rail-
way
Erection of Shed, &c., Police
Barracks, Parramatta
Erection of Offices, Locomotive
Branch, Eveleigh
Wednesday,
November 10,
at 11 o’clock.
Additions, &c., Gaol at Dubbo
Purchase of Right to Collect
Ferry Dues during 1887
Construction of Bridge over
Aulderley Creek on road Ray-
mond Terrace to Stroud
Ironwork, Contract No. 23,
ney Sewerage
Annual Contracts, 1887.
Colonial Architect’s Department
Supply of Building Stone, Sydney
Gaol
Ditto ditto ditto, Parramatta
Gaol
Ditto ditto ditto, Maitland Gaol
Sweeping Chimneys, Victoria
Barracks and other Govern-
ment buildings, Sydney
Supply of Coffins for Govern-
ment Institutions in Police
District of Sydney and Glades-
ville Asylum
Emptying Privies at Victoria
Barracks and other Govern-
. ment buildings, Sydney
Winding, &c., Clocks, Govern-
ment buildings, Sydney
Supply of Furniture, Chairs,
Carpets, and Blinds for Public
Buildings
Masons’ and Paviors’ Work
Carpenters’ ditto -
Bricklayers’ ditto
Slaters’ ditto
Plasterers’ ditto
Painters’ and Glaziers’ ditto
Plumbers’ ditto
Blacksmiths’ ditto
Supply of Ironmongery
Roads Department.
Supply of Cement
Construction of Boats
Supply of Drain Pipes
Tuesday,
November 16,
at 11 o’clock.
Additions Lockup Gaol, West
Kempsey
Construction of Bridge oyer
Wilson’s Creek, Road Bexhill
to Tentenbar
Supply and Fittings in New Com-
pound Engine and Boiler on
beard steamer Ajax
Tuesday,
November 23,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Bridge in Ap-
proach to Mehi River Bridge
at Moree
Construction of a Covered Reser-
voir, Minmi
Construction of .Bridge over Yan-
ko Creek—road Yamma to
Colombo Railway Station
Tuesday,
November 30,
at 11 o’clock.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNK.
ECORNILLON & CO., Wine and Spirit
• Merchants, 22 Bridge street, Sydney,
Have on Sale—
Mackies & Co. celebrated Whiskie
E. Remy Martin & Co.’s Centaur Brandy, in
bulk and cases
Yve. Martin and Fils Squirrel Brandy
Ca. Vincola del norte do Espana, Rioja Clarets,
Port, &c.
The unequalled A.Y.H. Gin, &c., &c.
J
HOLLOWAY
and
MISS ESSIE JENYNS,
supported by their especially selected Company,
in
“A Ring of Iron,” “A Mad Marriage,” “The
Broken Idol,” “ Hamlet,” “ Romeo and Juliet,”
‘Much Ado About Nothing,” “As You Like It,"
&c., &c.
OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY, SEPTEMBER 11.
“ A RING OF IRON.”
To WINEGROWERS AND OTHERS.
G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
CASKS, 250 to 400 gallons ;
also,
Rum, Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS.
Hogsheads, Quarter-casks, Spirit, Kegs, from 2
gallons and upwards.
COOPERAGE.
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market streets.
G
ENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES REPAIRED AND
CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET
Near Market-street.
Flour! Flour! Flour!
LION FLOUR MILLS,
KENT ST., SYDNEY.
Town Whites, Fine Seconds Flour,
Wheat Meal, Cones, Bran and Pol-
lard, always on hand. All made
from the very best wheat procurable,
and at the lowest prices.
THE AUSTRALIAN LOAN, DISCOUNT-
AND FINANCIAL COMPANY (Limited).
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO sterling.
RESERVE, £23,200 sterling.
SYDNEY
BANKING PREMISES.
Head Office :
CORNER YORK and MARKET STREETS.
Current accounts opened, drafts and bills negoti
ated, and all kinds of usual banking business
transacted
DEPOSITS RECEIVED,
and interest allowed.
At Call, 5 Per Cent.
3 Months, Per Cent.
6 Months, 8 Per Cent.
12 Months, 8| Per Cent.
Current Accounts: Interest allowed on daily
balance to credit. By Order of the Directors.
T
HE CLIMAX OF PERFECTION.
MONTSERRAT
LIME FRUIT JUICE SAUCE.,
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
I^CEIDIC
Prepared from Pure Drugs and chemicals by,
qualified Chemists in the most scientific manner
to ensure the best action,
FOR NOTHING
is more essential to enable doctors to make quick
cures, therefore we only employ qualified assist-
ants with diplomas in our establishments, and
supply everything of the best quality at
the lowest prices.
T. JONES & CO.,
DISPENSING CHEMISTS.
53 Market-st between Pitt and George-streets.
Branch Houses Crown-street Tram Terminus,
Surry Hills : and Suva, Fiji
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic-
Doloreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary I In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIQ-HT.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. A, ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,.
631 George-atreet only.


WHAT
WILL convince you of the wonder-
ful curative properties combined in
------- Dr. Bell’s Bitters, if the remarkable
cures that have been effected by its use fail to impress
upon vour mind this repeatedly proven fact. Thous-
ands are using it, and all declare that
it is a medicine possessing all and
even more than we claim for it. My
friend, if you are sick, or in that condition that you
cannot call yourself either sick or well, go and get a
bottle of Dr. Bell’s Bitters, and realise yourself how
this medicine hits the
right spot, and puts all
the machinery of your
body into working order.
WILL
ONIANOD
One of our prominent business men said to us the
other day : “In the spring my wife got all run down
and could not eat anything ; passing a store I saw a
iot of Dr. Bell’s Bitters in the window, and I got a
bottle. After she had been taking it a week she had
a rousing appetite, and it did her a world of good.
She took three bottles, and it was the best investment
ever made.”
DO YOU KNOW
That the very best Blood Purifier and Spring Medi-
cine is Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
That it cures Biliousness, Indigestion, Dyspepsia,
Headache, and Kidney and Liver Complaints.
That it is a wonderful medicine for Restoring and
sharpening the Appetite.
That it cures Scrofula, Salt Rheum, Boils, Pimples,
or other Diseases of the Blood.
ff you suffer from any of these affections, try Dr.
Bell’s Bitters at once.
Dr. Bell’s Bitters as a Blood Purifier has no equal.
It tones the system, strengthens and invigorates,
giving new life.
The highest Medical Authorities pronounce it the
only known Specific for Kidney, Liver and Urinary
Diseases; that it has no equal as a BLOOD PURIFIER,
that it is the best safeguard against Contagious
Diseases, both acute and chronic, keeping the KID-
NEYS and LIVER —the great organs of the body—
in healthy condition, disease then being impossible.
Note.—Any poor Person, or the manager of any
Hospital, Asylum, or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
BELL’S BITTERS
Manufacturing: Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND, & AUSTRALIA.
■ o
BUTCHER, PEHOH & CO., Sydney,
AGENTS FOR
New South Walos & Queensland
The New Furniture and Carpet
Warehouse
Jones, Lawson Bros, & Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
AT
LESS THAN ENGLISH PRICES.
EIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
with three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING ROOMS,
At the Exceedingly Low Price of J 65 15s.
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER SUITES,
At Correspondingly Low Prices.
FURNITURE for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY,
THE DINING-ROOM,
THE' DRAWING-ROOM.
BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEADS,
in great variety.
Jones, Lawson Bros., and Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
'-^7
-
vi
T>,
manufacturers
& importers of
: lidiiLt.*
HATS CAPS&c
438 CEORCE ST
3VDNEV %
0/jposite Lassetterj '
J,
//
I^.
FE! nsosr E 3 LL Y 3 S
HORSE & CATTLE BAZAAR
206 PITT STREET, and 119 CASTLEREAGH
STREET.
Branch Establishment: 68 Hunter Street
W. GAELING
(PROPRIETOR),
Auctioneer & General Live Stock Agent
THE Liverv business is the largest in Sydney,
and the Sale Yard the only one where gene-
ral sales are held of racing stock. High-class
horses disposed of privately and by auction. Busi-
ness connections with the principal stud and
breed owners in the colony. Correspondence
relative to state of market, and all matters re-
garding horses and cattle, personally attended to.
Best facilities for landing and shipping stock.
Insurance (including marine risk) effected on live
stock, rates for which can be obtained on applica-
tion.
MASON BROTHERS,
nmrnf
I inm
[\itypuy|tli«4a
1 ill
Bg33gyp’
1 >f||< WW'
11 •idWfflffiW lls ''
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHE NW A R E
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
O and CO.’S
Cognac.
». T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
FOLEY’S SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, See. "For
terms, &c., apply to
I. FOLEY,
Manager and Instructor.
rjIHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES ;
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve fund 675,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
. F. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.
: : li
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO is the best, purest
and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depends in a' great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; such
Rowlands’ Odonto has always proved itself to be.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA is a beautifully pure,
delicate, and fragrant toilet powder, and has
lately been much improved. Each box has inside
the lid a certificate of purity from Dr. Redwood
PhD., F.C.S., &c. Sold in three tints; white,
rose, and cream.
ROWDANDS’ MACASSAR OIL can now ho also
had in a golden colour, which is especially suited
for fair or golden-haired children and persons.
Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Eiliot Bros.
E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
u D OLPHa=VrOLFE£SONtC?:
ft|fa G/firuy /(?y$
W/
V<7l/(7MS’
1 49^
t y/utfd <>•
'MIS'.
/■
17CKE
C \J^
ILLUSTRATION (in reduced size) of «£1 Order to be found in the
“LARGE BOTTLES” OF WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
QUOD FACIMUS VALDE FACIMUS
(What we do we do well.)
sd
YOUR PHOTO.-If you feel
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and withal
truthful photograph of yourself,
accept what is but well-meant
counsel, and at once pay a visit
to the vestibule leading to Gal-
leries in Sydney Arcade. There
you can inspect a choice collec-
tion of portraiture (the every-day
work of Creelman and Co.) the
excellence of which, we venture
to say, ought at once to determine
your choice in their favour, and
take away all doubt as to the
proper place to go to.
Prices: C.-D.-V., 15s. 5 Cabinets, 30s.
CREELMAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, Sydney Arcade.
WJ 6 H N S O N~
• COOPER, SURVEYOR,
and
LICENSED GAUGER,
11 PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND
STREET, SYDNEY.
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces and Kegs, Tallow
Casks, new and second-hand; also, Wine and
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prices.
GAIIGIMG IN ALL ITS BRANCHES.
C. H. SMITH & SON,
Manufacturers and Importers
or
HATS CAPS,
302 GEORGE STREET,
3 Doors South of Hunter-street.
Z CaJbirtjets
taken /r />
J/-,
' \
p/5
gr"
RO
'VILLI AM S
REMINGTON
TYPE-WRITER
rjiHE
Saves labour, stationery, and time, writing much faster
than expert pen-men, and condensing matter to less than
onedialf the space occupied by pen writing. Beautiful
copies may be taken in the usual manner in the letter-press
bold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY & CO.,
410 Rent-street.
VZYOZB CZXU
tola tqr SEE SEMES, (HR et RBRUTK
m
: u
BOSTON, 1369.
VIENNA- 1878.
BMIJLA., 137&
1 HAUTHAWArt
lit lEUULE
Gloss.
I necessity ia irery
family, it blacks aid
polishes Ladies’ tad
Children's Beit*
Shoes, Bubhers tad
Satchel;, vitfeeut
hrashlsg. Always
lives satisfaction.
Is conceded te it
‘tie timmr
C. L. H A UTM A WAY ft SONS,
111 A 233 Congress Street* Sestei*
MABg w UJB.A-
UMBRIILLAS
RE-COVERED,
ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames re-
covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made equal
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly executed
Anything you require from Sydney
FORWARDED AT
COST PRICE.
NO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, forwarded free of all
charges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
JOHN T. MIMES & CO,,
90 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, X.S.TV.
E
VERYBODY \
SHOULD USEJ
PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
PLO ■O'R!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved l
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD,
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
831 Georoe-street, Sydney,
Good News for the Music-loving Public,
A BRANCH OF THE
Musical Instrument Direct
Supply Association
Is NOW OPEN at
674 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY,
With the Largest Stock of Musical Instruments in
the Southern Hemisphere,
AT LONDON prices, 50 per cent, less
than Sydney prices,
Direct from the European manufacturers to
the Australian consumer.
4/6, S/6, 1/6, 9/6. 12/6. 11/6, 21/, 25/, 80/.
45/, to £2O.
Speciality : The German-Anglo, in wood box, 21/
„ Ditto, superior, with steel notes, 35-
©
ICOORDEONS
Speciality : The miniature Melodian, 21/-,
Ditto, oak, with steel notes, 42/-.
10/6.15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality : Old Copy Violin, with case, bow
instruction book, 35/-.
'COBHETS at *•'- “fc Sis. lw -“«■
Specialities: The new “Levy” model,
with water key £5 5
~ The new “Reynolds” model
with double water key... 9 10
The new “Reynolds” Echo-
attachment Cornet ... 12 10
FLUTES, from 1/6 to £lO.
Specialty : The 8-key Coeoa D Concert Flute,
with slide-head, in case, by
best English maker 50/
THE SYMPHONETTE!
In nietei! silver, with six tunes, 30/-.
Extra tunes, 1/- each.
From 5/6 each to £lO.
©fa® ** Walter Howard ” American Nickel Banjo,
£3 3s.
6®” IBcbiss and Drum and Fife Bands furnished
•Uh'rOTjghc’ut. Negro Minstrel Troupes fitted out.
CSa/riraiets,. Violin Strings and Fittings, Flageolets
©ttnuns, Guitars, Harmonicons, Tambourines,
>&ud, in fact, an assortment of every class
of Musical Instrument, from a
Jew’s Harp to a Church Organ.
MUSIC! MUSIC ! MUSIC!!
88@,J0®O Copies New and Popular Music, published
at 35., 45., and 55., sold at 9d. per copy.
WORTH OF
MUSIC FOR
£l.
»,Ah instruments carefully packed and forwarded
fid f any part of the colonies.
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
Manager.


RAW VASELINE.
A
m
HORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
Collar Check and Serge, 40 and 44 inches ;
Large assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s Saddles, Spurs, and ; all kinds of
Saddlers’ Ironmongery, &c.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS, AND SADDLERS
IRONMONGERS,
125 YORK ST, SYDNEY.
t* 5 * *"
f
fR £
0^
5 y
T. T. FODEN & CO.
INDIA RUBBER DEPOT,
20 ERSKINE STREET,
Sydney,
For Every Description ot
INDIA RUBBER GOODS.
HOLESALC
MANUFACTURII
4Zoft^prceSy
ONFECTIONER;f>WP
JANES STEDMAN
Steam works,Kent s r Erbkine $!
CoJw* OH' 4«W,
to an oka om s no me. st nonet.
j»*js
Coiimnv a 'imrrotC Omouu fy*/7trAlUMlk
(TV
SINGER
and Co.’s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap
JOHNDANKS,
363 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
E
IJ
P
H
Q
R
B
I
A
••••*
I
!ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
ANO ALL CHEST, AFHECTIONS
PREPARED 0N LV BY fX.
lngham,'?
Rock h a m ptojO
sdf
r ATKINSON’S >
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Medals—
PARIS.IB7B, CALCUTTA, ISBI,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson's celebrated
EAU DE COLOGNE,
is unequalled for its strength and delightful
fragrance. It far surpasses the numerous
compounds sold under the same name. |
ATKINSON'S OLD BROWN WINDSOR SOAP. 1
This world-renowned soap is superior to all
others for cleansing and soflening the skin.
It is strongly and beautifully perfumed and
very lasting m use. t
Of all Dealers, arid of the Manufacturers —
J. & E, ATKINSON,
21, Old Bond Street, London
.Trade Mark—“ White Rose" on“ Golden ,
h. Lyre." A
sd
AGUARANTEEwith
each pipe for real
Meerschaum and
Amber.
Fire •proof Briars. Repairs, &c.
S. ROSENTHAL, Pipemaker,
Mttle < ollins-street, East, Melbourne.
Illustrated Catalogues on applies tin*,
SPECIAL PRICES AT
THE ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
All Goods Marked in Plain Figures
We invite inspection of our large and well-assorted stock of all classes of Furniture, Crockery
Glassware, E.P. Ware Cutlery, Furnishing Drapery, &e.
Also,
OUR ENORMOUS STOCK OF BEDSTEADS,
AT
WONDERFUL
PRICES,
A
AT
WONDERFU]
3 PRICES.
THE £2 15s. BRASS MOUNTED HALF-TESTER BEDSTEADS, FULL SIZE, WITH EXTEND
ING FOOT RAIL. OTHER DESIGNS AT THE SAME PRICE.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 GEOBGE STEEET, SYDNEY
(Next the Royal Hotel).
/A
ft. H
m
\ !
Hi
«a.
a
>
k
4>
X/
Manufacturing hatter
GEORGE STREET
SYD N EY
rm-TrrcTrRSOTftWFHi
NEWESTSHAPES.
CO
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
BOOKS. BOOKS. BOOKS.
Bought, Sold, or Exchanged
) ft AAA VOLUMES New and Secondhand
vt/jUvv Books always on view at
WILLIAM DYMOCK’S
BOOK ARCADE, 208 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Catalogues post free.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
G. B. MODINI, Gunmaker,
Re'/'IO 4>n 1 1. • , '
-° iS patr ° ns J * nd the Public that he has
received by late nvals, one of the largest and best selections
. a , mi FIREARMS
seen in Sydney. The latest improvements in Breach and
Muzzle-loading Guns, Rifles, Revolver” &c Agent for the
following celebrated London Manufacturers : T Purdy and
Vw C ?" eph La "S and Son, Ohas.
Osborne and Co., T. Bland and Son; also Bussev and Co
tU°fiX A aU ki “, ds of S P?rtBnien’s Requirements for
tht held. A large assortment of other celebrated rankers’
stoek on hand from Webey, Riley, Scott, Ic and the besl
A eho ' c ® and complete
stosk of Cutlery. I leld and Marine Glasses, and sportsmen's
Supplies m general. Repairs promptly executed bv skilful
workmen, and all goods will be* faithfiSl/Saranteed at
602 GEORGE-ST., BRICKFIELD HILL,
SYDNEY.
Inspection Invited. tSST Priee List on application.
Mein Gott, dot ain’t a man, und tunnervetter,
you preak my glass, too. Yell, it’s too pad ;
but I got it insured in de
Mutual Plate Glass Insurance Co,
of Australasia, Limited,
Capital .... £25,000.
Head Office : 80a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The only Local and Mutual Company, and
the largest in Australasia.
Directors
Francis Abigail, M.L.A. | John Graham, Esq.
Jas. H. Walker, Esq. (Walker, Lemon & Co.
John J. Wood, Esq. (Sec. Hudson Bros., Lim.)
Wynn Roberts, Manager.
S®’ Plate Glass Fronts, Mirrors. &c, of all
descriptions, covered against risk of breakage,
at lowest-current rates.
JT 01 N U M E N T
'J- in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Bailings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on reques
a. curaufdHiM,
Marcaret-street, Wynward square, Sydney
HEALTH IS WEALTH.
H C
BRAJJ4
TREATMFNT
Dr. E. C. West’s Nerve and Brain Treatment,
guaranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions, Fit
iNervouM Neuralgia, Headache, Nervous Prostration, caused b
the use_ of alcohol or tobacco, Wakefulness, Mental Depression
bqttenmg of the Brain resulting in insanity and leading t
misery, decay, and death, Premature Old Age, caused b
over-exertion of the brain, or over-indulgence. Each bo
contains one month’s treatment. ss. a box, or six boxes fo
zos., sent by mail prepaid on receipt of price. We Guar
antee six BOXES to cdre any CASE. With each order rt
eeivedbyus for six boxes, accompanied with 255., we wi
send the purchaser our written guarantee to refund th
money if the treatment does not effect a cure. Guarantee
issued only by
JOHN C. WEST and CO.,
65 MABKET STBEET, SYDNEY.
Circular sent free on application.
<£loo Reward!
)-,) pay -^ e . al ? o , ve r , ewar 'l for any case of liver com
i*-not?L^J S c PepSla ’ Slc k.headache, indigestion, constipation oi
wstiveness, we cannot cure with West’s Vegetable Liver
■tills, When the directions are strictly complied with. They
T^i >W h ely vege * a . w ®> and never fail to give
Large boxes containing 30 sugar-coated pills Is. For sale by
™„?5 UgglStS ’ „ B ® war ® of counterfeits and imitations. The
genuine manufactured only by
JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
65 Mabket-stbeet Sydney, N.S.W.
Sent Prepaid by post on receipt of Is. per box in stamps.
"W w w
West's World’s Wonder,
OB FAMILY LINIMENT.
Infallible remedy for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
Vtout, oprams. Cuts, Burns, Scalds, Bruises, Headache,
Mumps, Hip Disease, White Swelling, Felons, Chilblains
Whitlows, Chapped Hands, Frozen Feet, Bites of Insects,
s°r? aP diseases requiring external application.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers.
Price Is, and 2s. per Bottle.
JOHN C. WEST Sc CO., Sole Proprietors.
SIDNEY, CHICAGO and
TORONT
B
RADuEY, NEWTON, & LAM
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS &nd MANUFACTORY:
SPRING and C’CONN ELL STREETS.
raft
i,: 1 ! • ■
O r *f PIANOFORTE,
guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brilliant
tone, in handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
Ml ORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
_ CELEBRATED MAKERS.
B
AGAJELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Con-
nell-street.
fs
Austrian chairs
in Great VARIETY.
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB,
• Spring and O’Connell
- streets.
BENI WOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment, just opened, many unite new
designs.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, New'
ton, and Lamb.
Full suites for dining-room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS
ARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
Cmatch.
D
W
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
ALNUT TELESCOPE DINING TABLES,
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
df
Sideboards of modern
designs and various dimen-
sions, in OAK, MAHOGANY,
WALNUT, ASH, and CEDAR.
A large selection, at all
prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
WALL CABINETS for
VERY ELEGANT,
and Lamb.
Choice China, &c.,
Bradley, Newton,
"VTOVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
-Ll SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
O’Connell-street. ’
WALL-MIRRORS and BRACKETS, novelties
in Plush and Velvets, and in all Woods
from ss. 6d. each. ’
Elegant venetian~mirror S , richly
enamelled, in colours. Bradley, Newton
and Lamb.
BS
Drawing room cabi
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs,
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
i
Furniture Warehousemen,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
Drawing-room furniture.—The latest
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
Manufacturers, Spring and O’Connell streets. ’
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs, covered to order in
any material.
V V
B BEDSTEADS, all sizes,
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and'
LAMB,
Importers,
Q Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowestTrates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
sf
SPRING MATTRASSES
Woven Wire, best
make; also, Spiral Springs
Price, from 14s. each.
BRADLEY, NEWTON and LAMB.


“Pomp and Poverty.” — A tooOdious Comparison.
The police have ordered that the London unemployed shall not be allowed to carry out their threat o f joining in the Lord Mayor’s procession.” — Daily News.


s
*j4/iexquisite
Xo ULj
BY THE PROPRIE TOR
Sbt
fiSAlfrCYt,
\TOOTHJ*ST£
Ufifin/fLLED FOf{ /TS/Zl/SE/T/C
firlD CLEA/sz/G PROPERTIES.
T,B,MELHUISH , Pharmaceutical
134 William ST, SYD Af £
OOTS
OOTS
T. WILLIAMS & CO.,
IMPORTERS OF
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Also Manufacturers of
The Finest Quality of Goods in the above Lines.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
S3O
SIOH
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
Ij
FLEAS,FLIES BEETLES MOSQUITOES
COCKROACHES. VrSM AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESS TO BI RDS
FOWLS OR OTHER^
ANIMALS
W.
c
6 aVjSi' AVi.
|
UPWARDS 1
|?yAU. CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS
WHOUS^It
FELTON* GRIMWADE/yX®!
-
WANTED IN EVEKY HOUSE
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware ot
the numerous? imitations.
JUDSON’S
ERFECT
URITY”
JUDSON’S “PERFECT PURITY” FILTERS
ARE THE ONLY RELIABLE FILTERS.
HIGHEST AWARDS —Diploma of Merit. Diploma of Honour and Silver
Medal, Inventions Exhibition, London, 1885,
CATALOGUES POST FREE.
DANIEL JUDSON & SON (LIMITED), London and New York.
HENKY LANCASTER,
//PGA'
G'A&Ti
******Ak
~ |
“ Y WEATHER I
jjE TROUGH^
*AHh
DT Be
BROKEN
/' G/jrre/rjvs‘
X /ta jsv/w
- CAL-VAr"*-^
C<OA*
ui mi mil 111
T WATER
kmimiiinni
YLINDER
; :i' ;
FOR MANY YEARS
engaged in the
Leading Workshops
of England,
Lately 5 years with
Hudson Bros,,
Manufacturer of
WROUGHT IRON
TANKS & CISTERNS,
of any size or shape,
for squatters, wool.
washers, and station*
owners.
Horse and Cattle
Troughs,
of every description,
wrought-iron pipes, s. s.
funnels, ventilators,
&c., &c.
Estimates cheerfully given.
REDUCED PRICE LISTS FURNISHED ON APPLICATION.
orks: 65 GEORGE STREET, WEST, near Railway Station.
OKGANS !
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
SMITH.
bruce & massey,
ipi^isros,
ORGANS, MUSIC.
197 Pitt-st., Sydney.
SHAM’S PILLS,
tBE great liter remedy.
.( t Br om Dandelion, and free from the
-jj,' r ticle of mercury or mineral substance,
>So S j' l;i^ar medicine of the nineteenth cen-
P le > yet most effective ; they • can be
r'V " r C:t a ec ? ln mended, being a carefully pre-
! r 'p lion . and the result of practical ex-
ey overcome the worst form of
® w i le Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
hear that they have not afforded
CtEORGK STREET.
MARSHALL'S
TCJNIC NERVINE
TRADE MARK-—" TONJU; .NERVINE."
A SAFE, CERTAIN, and SPEEDV CURE for Nervous
Kidney Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished Blood,
Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power, &c. By its tonic
and - soothing effects it at once removes all orating for
Alcohol. By its riehness in phosphorous and other.powerful
vitalising fleiudhts, MARSHALL'S TONIC N E R VINK nour-
ishes and gives vigor to the whole system. Price is 6d
Sold everywhere. MARSHALL BROTHERS, Sydney
N.S.W.: London, Eng. ’ y •*
TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
THE ORIGINAL
BAK INC
f D
'w a3Nivj.&e
nMQ
FIRST CLASS AWARD
OR
'■ ;'> /* .• r-v:
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
i
'WZ/cHf-.J
ISTHE BEST INTHE WORLD!!!
NONE OTHER BUT • I
dfs
kl ANUf* CTUftED BY JAMES CHANNON
Harbour S t Sydiut
Sold by All Crocers and Storekeepers
ART IFICIAL T E ETH
roiyiPLEiTESFT
V w „ ? tßB‘LO|y 7I
MARSHALL BRO?
DENT ISTS
133 ELIZABETH ST
Robert butcher & co.
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Town Hall, Sydney.
Orders receive prompt attention."®®
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
(ESTABLISHED I 860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
"> l tioneer for Brisbane.
" Any enquiry about Land, &c., from the Sotuhem
Colonies or New Zealand, may be made to Arthur
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
Her"*Majesty the I Queen.
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales.
H.M. THE KING ON THE NETHERLANDS.
EXtiAWV
Iff
QUA!
Reims
H.I.M THE CZAR OF RI
Agents for New South Wales
TRAPP & ELLES,
54 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
0 R RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS ANO INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduqed into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
EH. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
BIDDELL BKOTHERS,
CONFECTIONERS,
505, 507, 5071 GEORGE STREET,
Every article in the trade. [Caterers supplied
with New Goods.
Acme Lozenges, most superior
Pachouli and Cachou Comfits, in 3d. boxes
Voice Jujubes
Finest Jam Sugar, in \ and lib tins
Sherbet and New Motto Kisses
Note.—Biddell’s London Mixtures are all "of
regular quality.
PAPERHANGINGS
HIGH-CLASS DADOES, FRIEZES, and
DECORATIONS.
House Decorator and
Painter,
GLASS SILVERER, BEVELLER & EMBOSSER *
Alex. Borthwick
Oil, Colour, and Glass Merchant,
281 George-street, Sydney.
mku
■m
'".IV
I'y
J*©VM*
ffi
A “Ladies’ Camera” an angel’s face !
But she saw me stop, and she said with grace
Pray don’t linger, do not wait,
I’ve a Phantom Shutter and a “Baker Plate.”
PHOTOGRAPHIC OUTFITS,
Including all requisites for the amateur or the professional can behnd *1
prices to suit all requirements. d
LICHTNER AND CO.,
PHOTO-STOCK IMPORTERS,
24 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND 36 COLLINS STREET EAST, MELBOURNE.
AST Send for Catalogue. “BS&
“BOOKS.” Any Book You Want. “BOOKS.”
ANQ-US &~ROBERTSON
113 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY. *
Large stock ef new and second-hand Books. Price of any book on application. (Books seut hv
mail to any part of Australia. *


ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing, Plumbing,
Gasfltting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of erery description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH,” “VALVE,” and “PAN” CLOSETS. “VACUUM” WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents Tor Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Pan Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters,
Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS,TanIT9 MACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Price on Application.
WOOD WORKING AND SAW MILL MACHINERY.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Are SOLE AGENTS for
T. Co., Ci3n.ci3o.an.a,tl
And carry a Large Stock of their Celebrated Machines.
EVERY REQUISITE FOR WOOD-WORKING AND SAW-MILLING IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogues and Prices.
Offices and Stores : 17 PITT STREET, Circular Quay, Sydney.
-t—» TO -r A "nT-T*TT.T
-fcr - -LTw_ n 1 41, Ca 1.1 J iLrsi 7
IMPORTER OF WIKES & SPIRITS,
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just completed extensive additions to his WHOLESALE and
RETAIL BOTTLE DEPARTMENT, which is now replete with a well-assorted Stock of the Best Brands of Wines’
and Spirits, personally selected by the proprietor.
He can therefore confidently recommend the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, hopes to merit the patronage
which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
ENGLISH ALES and STOUT, OF ALL BRANDS, ONE SHILLING EACH PER QUART.
THE FINEST BRANDS OF WHISKY, BRANDIES, PORTS, SHERRIES, CLARETS, and CHAMPAGNE, at the
Lowest Priees obtainable in Sydney.
m" A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU. SPECIAL PRICES.FOR CASES OF THE ABOVE, -Sty
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, all returns being allowed for
Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at any Country Railway Station or wharf Free of
Charge. f
P. R. Larkin wishes to call y<sur attention to his famous £,3 Cases,- containing the following :
3 Bottles BRANDY
1 Bottle JAMAICA RUM
1 Bottle PORT WINE
3 Bottles WHISKY
l-Bottle WOLFE'S SCHNAPPS
1 Bottle SHERRY WINE
Total 18.
WNDES’ RUM
LD TOM
. »>e articles contained in P, R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have given perfect satis-
faction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, pleasejnake P. 0. Order payable at th Haymarket Post Office.
KINDLY NOTE THE ADDRESS :
P. R. LARKIN, Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merehant and Importer,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL, GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS, HAYMAKET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale and Single Bottleißepartments, 778 and 780 George-street, Sydney.
WALLACH
3
60 , CL&RIva q STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
LLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION*
WALLACH BROTHERS.
LEA & PERRIN S'SAUCE
MIC
k v;
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label on every bottle
bears their Signature thus —
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SA UCE is genuine.
and
ONTici-’frtre'fc; JoSEinf jfc (Jo.
f>Avin CotfEfJ Sc (6b... Sydney
Wholesale Agents
C. R YOUNG’S ’
COMMERCIAL HOTEL.
CrULGOXG.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION FOR TRAVELLERS.
O -A. IL Xj AT
The Mercantile Tailoring Palace.
Where you can get .
A Pair of West of England Tweed Trousers (made to your measure) f° r
or a Sac Suit for 50/-. Fit Guaranteed.
teT PATTERN AND MEASUREMENT FORMS BY POST. :
722 George-street, Haymarket, Next Alhambra Music
Ball-
PERDRIAU & CO.
INDIA-RUBBER MERCHANTS,
18 ERSKINE STREET’
.fer garden hose, all sizes and lengths, as:
India-rubber Goods for Mechanical, Horticultural, Surgical, and general p ur ?
SPECIAL .QUOTATIONS FOR QUANTITIES.
Vv
dfsdfsdf
JOOT
Bjioe
Ceor/e
W La/j; P’ HJ.c uiuL- //, [/•/•J ’irrt
s
LIGHTEST, BEST,- and CHEAPEST-,.
NEXT TO ROYAL HOTEL, and at «p 2 OEOR 6 E , S T K*®”
THE FOLLOWING GOOD
ARE VERY VA.L j*.
■
SIT FOOT AND BCE
(Limited),
have Opened a ..
1 >)'.
; Ju-.ov, Tni -Australian ;R§lish; Is
v,f «» i, rcwder/(free from alum)
: Custard powder, Tin Box, Is.—makes two
quarts line custard"
i'r. ' Thompson's Coltsfoot Linctus,. for coughs, Is.
Clayton’s Ner.vine, for toothache and cold in. the
-gums, is.
Dr. Barbardssa’s Cantharides and Russian Bear’s
Grease Oil, for covering bald patches and pro
ducing whiskers. 2s. 6d. .
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
'■ 177, 268 and 266 PITT STREET.
J. MURPHY'S
CENTRAL LOAN AND DISCOUNT
OFFICES, "
CORNER OF KENT AN© LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite George-street.
MONEY LENT AT THE LOWEST RATE OF INTEREST
IN THIS CITY
Loans from Is. to 4ft 000, at lOd. in the &
per month.
Loans on Gold and Silver Jewellery, Clothing,
and every description of Portable Property,
granted at Rates never before attempted in this
Colony.
American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murphy’s Central Loan and Dis-
count Unices, corner of Kent and Liverpool
streets,'opposite George-street.
Try POGONOWSKI
FOR
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS
The Lai'gest Assortment in the Colonie
705 GEORGE STREET
Send for Price List.
BRANCH DEPOT
CA#’
No. 23 ROYAL AH
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Coeoa,
r ' light refreshments* 1
~ f ot
At this Branch, orders may be I©#
by their carts. . ; -..iA' " 'Am
: ev/sf *
They.have also taken oyer, the
“ KOUMISS.” so highly recommend
nary complaints.
v: - • ... r
FRESH- FOOD mH'TGE P
■ SESSS
Head Office
Stables.
Factory
: Guinness’ Extra
, mmm
FIRST
BASS’ PALE
SOLE PURVEYORS 10
COLONIAL AND INDIAN C* H
LONDON, t>
By Special Appoint!** 61 **
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH fl ft/
W. BALBHIN, JOHNSTO^V
Commercial Chambers,
FRYS
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London,
“AN ORDINARY CUP CONTAINS MORE ACTIVE PROPERTIES OS' MA'LT THAN AT ElirtP OE-TTpE
****- -4 : * fc^-Xv-
SUP AI.K OR P’ORTERv” —Lanc-t:t.
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
Manufacturer of all kinds of Crated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Vigor# 0 '
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
/ 3 1 and S»r HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded |the ONLY GO LDJJME DAL for vErated and Mineral Waters; also,, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs, Ritters,
