

Ilf®,
22 & 24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
sdfg
FLEMING’S
WAGGONS
and
Harness,
Specially Importe
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs-
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
WAC GONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes
Call andlnspect
I* 3
6
9
V
M
voiui
K
S
:
Tramwa y Land Sals Rooms
tyfbAufaqw Cftandvt*.
f
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
OWING GEAR, Brass & Hickai-pfiafssf SHOP FRONTS,
.Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, fee.
Mgr Brass and Beil Pounding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blaeksmlthing
Plumbing, Gasfltting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
DOULTON’B ■‘FLUSH-OUT,” “VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Pan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON AOCORD MORES, Bil^asqaariaPlaca,Sydnoy.
Full particulars and price on application.
°..c* k >7 7
,r»
V
V» v
s
kl)
'X
OOT '
Shoe Bazaar
252 a George 3*
GeG- tale Peate eueoL- ffari&vurb SyDMJB¥
OEGANS !
SOLE .AGENTS FOB THE
“ SMITH.
NUKE a MASSEY,
im, hub, in.
197 FSit-st p Sydney.
The Bulletin
NEW SERIES
fg
and Saw-Mill Machinery.
*** GREGORY and CO.,
‘ 4.
Are SOLE AGENTS for
& CO., CINCINNATI
A LARGE
STOCK OF THEIR CELEBRATED MACHINES.
St
Ris QtJlsi TB for WOOD-WORKING AND SAW-MILLING IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogues and Prises.
'°res : 17 p|TT STREET, Circular Quay, Sydney.
iaayitiM*
ML 0 o
f
S'
j 5
siMil
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
®OlS§| Rwilniiw poßsess the largest Factory, Manufacture mori
OJyOalwjfß Tobacco, and consume more American Leal
hemisphere. _
U °LK, GONQUEBOE, Blr Bolter. Champion, and Liaison's Cut Tobacco*.
JBsro.-'y' «§& Hj iolitner,
24 Sydney,
photographic stock dealers.
Complete Photographic Outfits, iu great variety, from *S. Catalogues post free.
THE LATEST WORKS ALO PUBUSAIIOSS OH PHOTOSRAPHY.
BOLB AGENTB for BAKBB’B DEV PLATS, the most RELIABLE and RAPID In the Market,
Our Photographic preparations arc recognised as the most varied,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies.
OOTS
DOTS
T. WIU.IA»S & CO.,
IMPOKTEUB OF
BRITISH & FOREIGN BOOTS & SHOES;
Also, Manufacturers of
The finest quality of Goods in th above lines
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
S3OH


ASK FOB, COLONIAL MADE
WIRE
PROOF
PROOFS;
NETTING!
BRAND.
CHEAPER THAN IMPORTED.
MANUFACTURED BY
JOHN LYSAGHT, Limtd.,
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SYDNEY.
SCHWEITZER’S COCOATINA.
Anti-Dyspeptic or Cocoa Chocolate Powder.
GUARANTEED PURR SOLUABLE COCOA OF THE FINEST QUALITY, WITHOUT SUGAR OR
ADMIXTURE.
The faculty pronounce it the "most nutritious, perfectly digestible beverage for Breakfast
. , . Luncheon, or Supper;” and Invaluable for Invalids and Young Children.
Being absolutely all Cocoa,” with the excess of fat extracted, is four times the strength of prepara-
tions thickened yet weakened with arrowroot, starch, &c., and in reality cheaper than such
nnan . *jixtureB. a teaBji xmful to a breakfast cup costing less than one halfpenny.
COCOATINA is the best Cocoa for India and the Colonies, keeping for years in ail climates, being in
a concentrated form. Made instantaneously with boiling water, and palatable without milk.
CMthrated for remarkable sustaining Properties. Specially adapted for early Break-
fasts. Adopted as a Medical Comfort In the Royal Navy.
Retailed by Chemists, Grocers, &c., in Ain-tight Tins, at Is. 6 d„ 35., 6s. 6d„ <fcc.
Wholesale by the Sole Proprietors,
OOHWJXTZER ft CO., 10 ADAM-aTREBT, STitAND, W.C., LONDON,
AND ALL WHOLESALE HOUSES.
Importer of Wines and Spirits,
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just completed extensive additions
to his WHOLESALE and RETAIL BOTTLE DEPARTMENT, which is now replete with
a well-assorted stock of the Best Brands of Wines and Spirits, personally selected
by the proprietor.
He can therefore confidently recommend the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, hopes to
merit the patrenage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
ENGLISH ALES and BTOUT, OF ALL BRANDS, Is. EACH PER QUART.
THE FINEST BRANDS of WRIbKIES, BRANDIES, PORTS, SHERRIES, CLARETS, and CHAM-
PAGNES, at the Lowest Prices obtainable in Sydney.
A trial will convince you. Special Prices for Cases of the above.
Weeding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, all returns being
alleged for. Cases of Wines and Spirits,, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at the Railway
Station or any wharf in the city, or any country station, Free of Charge.
P. R, Larkin wishes to eall y our attention to his famous JB3 Cases, containing the following:
3 Bottles BRANDY
1 Bottle JAMAICA RUM
1 Bottle PORT WINE
3 Bottles WHISKY
1 Battle WOXjFK’S SCHNAPP3
1 Bottle SHERRY WfNE
TOTAL-18.
7 Bottles LOWNDES’ RDM
1 Bottle OLD TOM
The articles contained in P. R. L.’a Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have
rivenpertect satisfaction to purchasers ip every instanoe. To prevent delay, please make Post Office
Orders payable at the Haymarket Post Office.
Kindly Note the Address—
P. R. LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail Wme & Spirit Merchant £ Importer ,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL, George and Gipps Streets, Haymarkbt, Sydney.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 77t$ and 780 George-street, Sydney.
McLEAN BROS. RIGG & CO.
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
612 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
I
O .
O
m
6
,,*1»
:'"■: ■.
IRONMONGERS
o
3
t
*
' SPECIALITIES:
Davis’ Sewing Machine, sbestos Fire-proof Paint ,
Hbo Carbon Lght.
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
Gas Cooking stovesLeonls Fletcher’s, Jeans and Walker’s.
BKADFOhn * WASHING MACHINES, &C.. &C.
J. M. ELLEEOAMP,
GLOVER, HOSIER, AND MEN’S MERCER,
AND IMPORTER OF
Ladies’ English and Foreign Boots and Shoes,
16 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SHE BEST HOUSE IN THE COLONY FOR SHILLING SCARFS.
m
<6
o
*&eC
JVI Y dfc GO.,
TOBACCO as-EiEIEICH.A.IsrTS,
600 George-street, Haymarket, Sydney.
O' Depot for all Cameron Bros, and Co.’s renowned Tobaccos.
Importers of Havanna and Manilla Cigars. A large and superior assortment
of Meerschaum, Briar, and Clay Pipes.
Sole agents for the celebrated Buffalo Tobaccos, Cigars, and Cigarettes.
Manufacturers of Nonpareil Cigarettes. N. B. Trade parcels at Factory Prices.
STAR & GARTER FAMILY HOTEL
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY. 5
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, &
(J. A. ROBERTS, R. J. ALCOCK, G. C. CHALMERS, R. G. WATER* 3 -*
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
IRON, HARDWARE, AND MACHINERY MERCH^’
Importers of " rn ™
SHAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLB and JB
RAILWAY AND OTHER CONTRACTORS’
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING r ~ , umj a, v>v>
MATERIALS. SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES. &o,
-
HI
sC<
■
1 I ■
PUA.T'R, B&STIT. «cA HOOV mow ; OJkJLV.Min.BTSX> COaKUBATSD «mA PX.AuTN, mow
»no%i£toaiTra> tswc •. 'wspliA.tbs % pia mow ti*Aß 011& &ad
. a bin o buppuhb build biw won-
«lnm«i»,vonu£l£; sTOK£raromt»oxN|tß.
_ T m• k« QfYCT.'wnf STAILM. otia«» PXJtePB» I»A.TH.V&* PIiAHXwQ*
. »S^§V«'" \.\r£a«, »rmiLtiAtiuißß.t. iNuisnaats- buum toondut.
Sole Agents for FARMER. ROBEY, and BROWN’S CELEBRATED. S f
ENGINES ; READING IRON WORKS’ AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS and r-»
WM. TAYLOR and CO.’S Celebrated OILS and PAINTS.
WT Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application* . -
BOBEBTS, CHALMERS, & CU
Head Warehouse -
Iron and Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
SITDK’IS’Yi
8S SUkAOHOBUIWH
Loudon 0»m >
THE GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL,
C h Ait lotte-iT ace and Georg e-street.
K. HANNEY’S
1 DOZEN CASE
OF
ASSORTED
WINES, SPIRITS, and HALT LIQUORS,
DELIVERED ANY PART OF CITY FREE.
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer.
Order the ldoz. case as you please from the list of
low prices as under, viz. :
Robertson’s Walker or Royal Blend
Scotch Whiskies
Dunville’s Shamrock and Burke’s
XXX Irish Whiskies
Brian Boru Whisky...
Hennessy’s * Cognag
Square Gin
Jamaica Rum
Red Heart do
Flasks Brandy and Whiskies
English Ales and Stout, best brands Is.
or 11s Gd. por dozen
Port Wine, for connoisseurs and
invalids 6s.
Port Wine and Sherry, from ... 2s.
Best brands Whisky or Brandy
from 20s. per gallon.
£3 CASE ALSO A SPECIALITY.
Is. per bottle.
4s.
3s.
ss.
6s.
4s.
4 s.
4s.
Is. 6d. &2s. 6d.
Marks’s Ape. Porter, and Lager Beer.
Certificate of merit of the first-class ami silver medal
awarded at the Calcutta Exhibition, and patronised by his
Excellency the Governor’s household, 6d. per bottle. All
first-class Goods. One trial will prove the fact. Bottle De-
partment of the GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL, Corner
George-street and Charlotte-place. Orders by post solicited.
Mrs. Hanney attends personally on lady patrons.
sdf
gs
f* £
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
NIH 0 VIAJ
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE
stocks
newestd| icNS
HIGHEST FINISH
AT
LOWEST COST
nt>° ,
. A# 11
MO
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS,
ESTIMATED FOE
dfg
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET.
* *
t
«*
PRBSCSi^
: «V?
be found m ' * “4
LIFE,” for the speedy cure o & c ' la d. 1
Lost Manhood, te ti
this book will be sent P oS
penny stamps. Address-- c q jly
8. WABD *
out®®*
UMBRELLAS
RECOVERED;


THE BULLETIN
Vol 4 —No. 160 - New Striae.
SATURDAY, JUNE 5, 1886.
Ftloi—6d.
The Degradation of the New South Wales
Assembly.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JUNE 5, 1886.
The coarse, extravagant, and profane tirade
of abuse with which Sir John Robebtson
disgraced himself and degraded the House
in his attack last week upon Sir Henry
Parses, affords ample justification for his
desertion by the most devoted of his con-
stituents. Sir John has done good service
to the colony in times past, but tnis does not
now entitle him to belch blasphemy and the
argot of the pothouse in the highest represen-
tative Assembly in the land. The conduct
and language of Sir John during the present
session has occasionally been such as to
induce the charitable to hope that his facul-
ties were not at the moment under com-
plete control. No past servioes should be
allowed to excuse these present sins. If he
is not now a worthy representative, no con-
sideration of his power in time past should
induce electors to give him another oppor-
tunity of reflecting disgraoe upon them-
selves.
m * *
It would be unjust to Sir John Robertson
to specially allude to him in this manner
without referring to other members who
share with him the odium of lowering the
tone of our political institutions to their own
level. And in thus writiDg it must be
understood that we take a high standard as
that to which the representative Assembly
should attain. Men who are corrupt in
conduct, profane in speech, disreputable in
habit, necessarily degrade Parliament, but
so also, though not in the same degree, do
the political incapabies, and the fanatical
bigots who go in less to represent a com-
munity than to work injustice to the ad-
herents of a creed different to their own.
The Assembly should be composed of the
most patriotic, liberal-minded, sober,
talented, and reputable men of the com-
munity. All who are lacking in any one of
these attributes, consciously or not, degrade
the Assembly in which they sit. Demo-
cracy demands that the men who are the
most celebrated for virtue and ability
snould also take the foremost positions in
the councils of the State. To name or refer
to the representatives who are not counted
with the virtuous and reputable, would be
to wander inti a territory protected by the
artillery of an oppressive and vicious libel
Hw whioh is ages behind the institutions of
our country, but on the safe grounds of poli-
tical ability alone the utter unworthiness of
our representatives may be safely chal-
lenged.
* * *
Take first the acknowledged leaders of the
sections of the House. Of Sir John Robebt-
son and his drivelling inveotive, seasoned
only with profanity, we have already spoken.
Then there is Sir Henry Parses. Only a
few weeks ago he posed as the “ Liberal
leader,” and has since shown his right to the
title by opposing all the aspirations and
efforts of true Liberalism. He has publicly
commended the Legislative Council for op-
posing the majority of the people’s repre-
sentatives on the New Hebrides question
and he has pleaded their dissent from the
constitutionally-expressed will of the
people as a justification of the existence of
the Upper House on the present nominee
basis. He has supported the cause of Tory
jingoism by advocating the annexation of
these New Hebrides Islands; and when Pay-
ment of Members, “ the corollary of man-
hood suffrage” was submitted, he used all
his eloquence to prevent its adoption. And
further, when the introduction of Protec-
tion, undoubtedly the Liberal policy of this
country—for it favours local workmen and
capitalists rather than foreigners and their
Sydney agents, the importers, and aims at
the destruction of the monopoly now en-
joyed by the latter class—was advocated, he
used all his strength for the retention of
Freetrade. Yet with all this jingoism, and
conservatism, he still pretends to lead the
New South Wales Liberals; under such a
recreant chief it is no wonder that the
Parkesites as a party are politically con-
temptible.
* * *
Nor is the present Premier, Sir Patrick
Jennings, much more capable of exciting
admiration on the score of his official actions
and conduct. Two months ago he announced
a scheme of taxation which we commended
at the time, chiefly on account of its promi-
THE HON. JOHN DOUGLAS,
The New Guinea High Commissioner.
nent feature—the land-tax. Now, it is to be
assumed, from the ridiculously guarded
statements of Sir Patrick himself, that the
probability of levying this impost is some-
what remote: and it may also be gathered
from the same discreet utterances that the
Ministry are not particularly anxious that
this commendable proposal should be passed
into law. But the unfitness of the Premier
for his post is chiefly shown in the quaking
cowardice of his replies to questions in the
House. His ponderously feeble answers
to such interrogatories are extorted confes-
sions, or forced admissions, rather;than fear-
less and straightforward replies. His want
of statesmanly power is continually exhi-
bited in the cunning evasions he resorts to
on these occasions. Under his alleged guid-
ance the House follows the fancy of its
individual members; the Government
policy is a thing to be darkly guessed
at; business of public import drags
on in a wearisome fashion that is
pregnant with disaster to the colony;
and the Ministers themselves are rather
salaried administrators than guardians of
the State. Sir Alexander Stuart was
destitute of backbone. Sir Patrick Jen-
nings is, as far as politics are concerned,
destitute of everything save thews inertiev
which he would appear to possess to an
almost unlimited extent. Nor is the next in
the Ministerial ranks, Mr. G. R. Dibbs, much
higher in the political scale than his chief.
Like the fly in the amber, the puzzle about
him is how ho ever got into his present
position. A member of the Cabinet, which
went down beneath the accumulated weight
of dump-cars, barb-wire, railway diversions,
Standard paint, oyster beds, portrait gal-
leries, Soudan glory, and Martin’s brilliancy
in the land-agency business, it might have
been thought that a graoeful retirement
was all that remained to him. But his self-
ordered fate was very much otherwise. For
a few britf weeks he was Premier —admitted
in a Budget speech the deficiency he had
formerly dtnied—blamed Providence for
its existence—proposed to leave its extinc-
tion to the same agenoy—and, finding him-
scif supported by a mean majority of two,
was forced to leave to others the work of
redeeming the deficit. Then with the taint
of the unanswered imputations and unex-
plained errors of the Stoabt Ministry
still clinging to his reputation, he appears
as Colonial Secretary with colleagues
whose chief undertaking is to reverse the
policy of the two Cabinets with which
he has been so recently associated. Mr.
Dibbs of last year was a fierce champion of
Freetrade: the Dibbs of to-day is a strong
advocate of Protection. Then he was averse
to additional taxation: now he supports an
enormous income of taxation both direct and
indirect. Then the “Hand of Providence”
was trusted to supply the defioit: now Provi-
ence is elbowed out by a huge and compre-
hensive list of new and increased imposts.
From all these considerations it is clear that
Mr. Dibbs, has during the last few months,
become either a remarkable convert or a
shameless renegade; either he has found
political salvation or has sustained a lament-
able fall from grace. His conduct and pro-
fessions can hardly be free from suspicion,
whichever alternative is accepted. When
the conduct of the leaders is so open to
question and exposed to censure, there is
small reason for wonder that the majority
of less prominent members of the Assembly
should be of a class capable of adding but
little to its usefulness and reputation.
• * *
Government by men of mean attainments
or doubtful motives is inconsistent with all
the aims of intelligent Democracy. Under
a system of manhood suffrage the posts of
honour in the State should be as prizes to
be gained by conspicuous ability, or as
tributes to integrity and virtue. In New
South Wales this, assuredly, is not the case.
But it would be an error to blame the con-
struction of the engine of Government for
this unsatisfactory result of its working.
The fault is with the people, not with the
system; and despite the present degrada-
tion of the Assembly, we are convinced that
under any other mode of appointment of
representatives that could be devised, the
existing evils would be immeasurably inten-
sified. With all their faults, the members of
the Assembly are more worthy to be en-
trusted with power than are the members
of the Upper House. The D able vs, Mac-
kellabs, and Cbeeds of the Council are
associated with many men who only escape
contempt by reason of their insignificance
and political quiescence. As compared with
the Legislative Council, we consider the
Assembly entitled to admiration, but con-
trasted with what the people should make
it, the same Assembly in personnel and
conduct is open to the severest censure.
* * *
That “the Assembly is what the people
make it ” everyone knows who has ever at-
tended a public banquet in Sydney. The
two principal causes which permit of its
being made so badly in New South Wales
are: first, the absence of that interest which
should be taken in politics by the electors;
and, seoond, the operation of sectarian
bigotry and old-world “religious” hatred.
Take the former first. There is now in this
colony no important question upon which
men are divided. No solid party is striving
for reform; no agitation of importance is
being made concerning any single broad
question. Electors and members are distin-
guished by no party name and acknowledge
no political creed. There are the adherents
of the three leaders, in the House and in the
country, but men who follow any one of
these political prophets are bound to no
particular principles or doctrines. The con-
sequence of all this is that the electors
attach but little value to their votes, are
careless as to their representatives, and tak-
ing small interest in the course of politics
are comparatively ignorant of the claims
and public character of thoso who submit
themselves for eleytiou. Such political


apathy enables Mr. Garrett, saved from
expulsion from the House for his share
in the Miiburn Creek business by the
nai lowest of majorities, to obtain re-
elec lion for Camden; and allows Mr. E.
A. Baker, expelled by an almost unanimous
vote from the House, to again inflict his dis-
mal dronings upon Its members. And with
this lack of interest in matters of public
policy, there is also the tendency with
electors to subordinate affairs of State to
those which are of exclusively local con-
cern. In some electorates the ability of a
candidate to procure votes for an adequate
number of town-docks, and a sufficiency
of bridges :s more regarded than would be
the most conspicuous political talent and
•'tisonal integrity. This road-and-bridge
11 -eger imports into the House such men as
William Teece and C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.
A Local Government Bill is the only cure
for this latter evil; the former, the apathy
of electors, can only be removed by the
pressure of taxation, the result of circum-
stance, or the advent of some member who,
rising above the cowardly, time-serving
opportunism which at present controls the
Assembly, shall, guided by a deep knowledge
of principle, formulate a National policy
therefrom, and advocate it consistently.
Before such a man, the popularity-hunters
who now fill the House must certainly give
way. The man who can bring forward a
broad National programme on progressive
and thoroughly Democratic lines, will ele-
vate politic' from the gutters of localism
and Orange jid, and, by setting distinct
issues befe'e the electors, induce them to
take an active interest in the Assembly to
wh.ch they entrust the future of this com-
munity.
• • •
The se: ond main cause of the degradation
of the Assembly is “ the operation of sec-
tarian Ugotry and old-world religious
hatred.” The maintenance of the old feud
of some of our fanatical ancestors is respon-
sible for the eleotion and re-election of some
of the most insignificant and unworthy
members. There are constituencies in the
colony for which no Protestant can be re-
turned, and there are others where it would
be useless for a Romanist to venture. The
candidate of the dominant religion will
sucoeed in such electorates, although his
utter unfitness for membership may be
plainly demonstrable. Firm belief in the
the Kiama Ghost, and enthusiastic admira-
tion of Edith O’Gorman, and similar deities
is generally credited with the making of
such members as Mr. Henson, Colonel
Holborow, Dr. Wilkinson, and Dr. Ren-
Wick. We use the word “ members” ad-
visedly, for nothing short of regeneration
could transform them into capable politi-
cians. Of the representatives of Holy Water,
it must admitted that their .creed does not
seem to have utterly bereft them of brains*
and, in consequence of this fact, they com-
pare favourably with many of the men who
have been elected in this colony because a
Dutch King came over to England to assist
with a rebellion 200 years ago. As we have
previously pointed out, the overthrow of
Orange and Green influence will be effected
by the spread of education. Ignorance and
bigotry, the unlovely twin-sisters, will make
their exit together ; the sturdy and enlight-
ened intellect of the rising generation will
burst the bonds of fanaticism, and oherish
instead that true religion which is forgotten
in the heat of sectaiian warfare. The
Kiama Ghost will vanish before the white
light of knowledge, and a main cause of the
present degradation of the Assembly wnl
cease to operate when that historical ap-
parition finally disappears.
A Clog upon the Wheels
Speaking at St. Leonards on the subject of
"Franoe in the Pacific,” a few evenings ago, Sir
Henry Parkes said:
“ While the House of Representatives did not
represent the people, the Upper House did, for
the Upper House stepped in and sent their protest
SainsUhe acquisition of these islandsby France.'*
Which simply means that in this matter the Coun-
cil acted in direct opposition to the clearly ex-
pressed will of the Assembly. We should like to
know Sir Henry's grounds for the assertion that
the people of this colony are anxious to prevent
France from annexing and colonising with free-
men the New Hebrides Islands. We believe the
very opposite to be the case, and that the people
of this colony are quite sensible to the advantages
we would derive from commerce and communica-
tion with a prosperous French colony in the Pa-
cific. But this is, by the way. The real question
is whether the State is likely to be benefited or in-
jured by the interference of an irresponsible body
of men with the wishes of the people’s represen-
tatives in Parliament. Surely an Assembly whose
members have come from the constituencies with-
in the last year is more likely to understand and
correctly interpret the wishes of the people of
New South Wales in this or any other matter than
is a body of political Rip Van Winkles, the
majority of whose members represented public
opinion 30 years ago-if they ever represented it
at all. # * *
Even John Stuart Mill admits that Represen-
tative Government is based on the maxim that
the will of the people is the only legitimate source
of power— vox populi suprema lex- yet the only
merit claimed for our Bicameral System is that
the Upper House checks and controls that vox
populi ’’—acting as a safety break on the too rapid
and ill-considered legislation of the popular one.
That is in itself the enunciation of a distinct prin-
ciple—viz., that a Chamber elected by the manhood
of the country is incapable of transacting its own
business with due carefulness, and that its aots
require revision, correction, and limitation. Is
this a sound principle or an impudent assumption ?
* * *
It is a recognised maxim in political economy
that when two distinct principles directly contra-
dict one another one of them must be false—for,
in the words of Ingersoll, one truth fits in with
every other truth in the universe, and it is as
impossible for one sound principle to contradict
another as it is for two parallel straight lines to
meet. Therefore, when a thinking man finds in
the system he is examining that two assumptions
are inconsistent one'with the other, he must weigh
the evidence and eliminate whichever one he finds
to be false. Now, in the present political system
of New South Wales, we have two assumptions,
one denying the truth of the other. Firstly, we
have manhood suffrage, which implies the prin-
ciple that every sane man in the community has
an interest in its government and a voice in the
choosing of the men who shall make and ad-
minister its laws. That is one principle. The
other is that stated above—that the men elected
by the manhood of the colony are unfit to govern
it, and require another body of men to check and
control them. Now these two doctrines require
only to be stated side by side to show that they
do not fit one another, but contain between them
an absurdity. Either the manhood of the country
is capable of choosing representatives to intelli-
gently carry on its business or it is not. If
it is not, then the principle of manhood
suffrage is a farce, a fraud, and a danger. But if
we admit that our enfranchised manhood is suffi-
ciently intelligent to elect fit and proper repre-
sentatives to do its legislative work, then we must
regard any attempt to hamper the power or
thwart the will of the representative Chamber as
an impudent and treasonable curtailment of the
liberty and rights of the people.
• ’ •
It only requites & moment’s thought to prove to
any unprejudiced mind that there is not any
logical ground whereon to base a single argument
in favour of a second Chamber. If the will of the
people is to be the law, then one elective Chamber
which can never lose touch of the constituencies >
will better express that will than any other form
of Government. If the will of the people is not
fit to be the law of the land, then an absolute and
unhampered autocracy would be the most logical
and sensible system possible. Anything between
must necessarily be cumbersome, illogical, and
dangerous. Our ancestors, 800 years ago, in Eng-
land, tried the latter system; and we in this nine-
teenth century are not satisfied with the result.
Let us then give the other a trial. Autocracy has
died out in front of education; it is now time we
tried Democracy, not the crude, bastard system
we see in England and America, but pure Demo-
cracy, the unhampered will of the Sovereign
People. Let us sweep away all the old stumbling
blocks in the path. Why should an irresponsible
Chamber, containing all the petrified stupidity
and prejudice of a quarter of a century ago, clog
the wheels of our progress to-day ?
* * *
Whenever demand is made for the abolition of
the Second Chamber it Is always met with the
parrot cry: “ The system works well in England I”
We deny that the system works well in England;
and, further, we assert the system in England is
doomed-that the House of Lords which was
powerful enough to depose the Sixth Henry by
a single resolution is tottering to its fall. On the
sth of March last Mr. Labouchere’s motion for
its abolition was only defeated by 36 votes, and
Mr. Gladstone stated almost in as many words
that he opposed the motion only because his bandß
were so full with important reforms that he could
not at present undertake any more. He has since
given practical proof of his disapprobation of the
Bicameral System by proposing in his Home Buie
Bill that Ireland shall be governed by a single
Chamber. When the House of Lords, with all its
prestige, widespread influence, and clerical sup-
port, was only saved from annihilation by 36 votes
in a House of 400, and that only because the
Liberal leader was too busy to undertake the task
of its abolition, it can hardly be maintained that
“the system works well in England.” Truly the
division on Mr. Labouchere’s motion may be
justly considered “ the writing on the wall.”
* • *
It would be hard to point out any country on
earth which has made such rapid material, eocial
and political progress during the last decade as has
Greece—surrounded though she be with enemies
—under the government of a single Chamber,
elected under the system of universal suffrage.
Why, then, should we in this new land maintain an
old and effete political system which our brothers
in England are about to destroy, and which
England’s greatest statesman considers unworthy
of adoption in the new Democracy of Ireland ?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Another Uaniel.
John Wesley is dead, but before he went he was
much exercised in his mind about the Great Earth-
quake in Lisbon, and wrote a sermon on the
“cause and cure of earthquakes,” in which he
proved beyond the shadow of a doubt that the
remedy for earthquakes was for the Portuguese
to throw over the Catholic religion and its conse-
quent immorality, and to read the Bible in their
own native tongue. John’s theory on this subject
is now with many others scouted by even the
dullest of his preachers. But here comes the Rev.
Mebvyn Archdall, of Balmain, Sydney, with a
discourse to his Hook on “ Ireland: her Curse and
Cure.” From this jeremiad, which is carefully re-
ported by the daily press, we gather that her ourse
is the false view of God’s character taught by
Romanism; the imminent danger of the Episcopal
church losing revenues; and, above all, Ireland’s
ignorance of the Word of God, meaning thereby its
failure to read the Bible regularly,andin the Protes-
tant version. The cure (and hear this ye Davitts,
Parnells, &c., who got your youthful instruc-
tion in Protestant schools), is stern coercion, pro-
tection of Episcopal revenues, and above all, ship-
loads of Bibles in the original Irish 1 The rev. gentle-
man winds up by smugly begging Iho prayers and
alms of the Balmainiacs to succour their brethren
of the Irish church! From this Daniel come to
judgment, we learn also, that a movement which
has the support of four-fifths of the people in
Ireland,and some 80 or 90 of their members in the
Commons, in addition to Gladstone’s following
amongst the Liberals and Radicals, is really led by
a comparatively small but desperate minority. To
counteract the evils the Home Rulers complain
of, there is founded an Irish society which is
teaching a few thousands to read the Bible in
Irish. We need say nothing more of such
antediluvian rubbish, but merely point the thing
by an authentic story. In the early diggings-days
there was a clergyman of the Wesleyan persueslon
who was noted for his wealth. One of his lay
helpers had his tent burnt down, and lost tools,
clothes, money, and everything. He called on the
minister in hope of getting some assistance. The
holy man seemed deeply affeoted, and said, “ Bro-
ther, let us pray.” When he rose from his knees
he spoke a few words impressing the brother with
the necessity of resigning himself to the will of
God, and diligent perusal of the Scriptures. He
then presented him with a shilling reference Bible
and—wished him a very good afternoon. “ Good
afternoon, Ireland,” says Rev. Abchdall.
+
E. B. Holt.
E. B. Holt, has, at the age of 46 years, now passed
away from all good work or profitable service,
lost'to life, and use, and name, and fame, utterly
as if 6ft. beneath the sod. We can neither gloat
nor prose about this. We are quite as far from
that dull and heartless self-satisfaction which puts
the thing aside with a “ serves him right,” as from
the comment of the professional thief: 41 He made
a good swag, pity he didn’t clear with it before.”
The one is false and mean as the other is wrong.
This man’s life was on big lines. He not only
managed but made big institutions He was
high, broad, prominent amongst the biggest men
of these colonies. He stood upon the broad base
of flve-and-twenty years of good, strong, honest
life. He climbed for a space to the thin jagged
edge of fraud whereby some few reach the golden
land of wealth, and he fell headlong. Just ima-
gine the mind of the man when he threw that
hazard:—
“ The die rang sideways as it fell,
Rang cracked and thin,
Like a man’s laughter heard in hell,
Far down, Faustine.”
Lost all! The mind that managed ably and well,
as is admitted, financial matters of Australasian
breadth, concentrated now on the unravelling of
some threads of old rope, or the plaiting of some
strands of cabbage-tree palm! Is it not too ridicu-
lous? Is it in any sense compatible with the
dignity of nineteenth century civilisation? Were
not the ancients wiser who would have sent to
such a one the poison-bowl? But do we really pity
him? Of course we do. E. B. Holt has our sin-
cere pity, as the majority of his critics have our
profound contempt. Do we regard him as a chief
sinner in the community? No. It is another case
of those men upon whom the tower of Siloam fel.
We believe we could place our hands upon men
carrying round plates in churches, taking high
places in the Chamber of Commerce, bowing and
scraping at Government House, who to-day are 10
million times greater sinners, and meaner men
thanE. B. Holt ever was: whose whole lives are
hypocrisy who have harried the widow and
robbed the orphan in the ordinary way of busi-
ness—who under forged labels have sold bottled
poison for sound liquor—who, under pretence of
settling the people, have sold bogs and swamps
and fever-infected areas, and given tithe to
churches of the gains that were made by direct
compact with the meanest devil who ever wore
horns. We believe E. B. Holt in his cell to be a
better man than a thousand fellows in church
pews, and we read that statement of his in court
with profound sympathy and infinite regret, and
not a little respect for the able lawyer who read
and may have had a hand in composing it. We
are sorry for the man, and we are bitter perhaps
because we feel that he has chanced to topple over
while a hundred others, only superior to him in
humbug, craft and hypocrisy, get across to the
high land of respectable competency, and look
down sniggering, moralising, pitying as if they
themselves had been white from their birth.
+
Union and Association.
The New South Wales Civil Servioe Associa-
tion and the Railway Employees’ Association
have no connection whatever. So we learn
from the letters of Mr. author Josling,
hon. secretary to the Civil Service Associa-
tion. Mr. Josling need not have bothered him-
self to write about this, because no man in his
senses ever saw or suspected any more likeness
between the societies than between cotton-waste
and red tape. Members of the Railway Employes’
Association must work at least eight hours a day;
a big proportion of the members of the Civil Ser-
vioe Association “ loaf ” six. Members of the Civil
Service Association-Pah! There is no space for
any associations. What are they-trades’ unions
or social clubs ? One or the other they must be.
We have too much humbug and bunkum about
this Civil service, and feel pretty strongly that
the groundwork of the whole matter is a league-
ing together of professional "loafers” against
hard-working people. The Civil service is no trade,
is forced into no competition, thera are no leagued
employers against it, no overbearing mastership of
Capital prepared to cut and grind it down. Let it
be social as it will, industrious as it can, and if it
really does contemplate a union, let it set an
example to all other unions by filling up the one
broad field of opportunity which lies open before
it. Trades’ unions generally,have fought the boss,
necessarily, perhaps. Let the Civil service trades’
union fight the incompetency, indolence, waste,
and negligence which have made it a bye-word in
New South Wales and in the world, and we shall
be glad to give tiger to the three times three at
their fisrt celebration.
The 41 Echo” and Emily Webber.
Saturday’s Sydney Echo gives itself away over
the Emily Webber case. This is the unfortunate
girl whom Judge W indeyer sentenced to death
last Thursday for the murder of her illegitimate
ohild. The Echo’s arguments on the evidoncss of
weak maternal feeling said to havo been exhibited
by the girl, we pass by, merely observing that they
appear to us to begin badly and end worse. It is
the paper’s appeal for a commutation of the sen-
tence we dwell upon. We are, of course, in
favour of commutation. Indeed, we know
that the authorities dare not hang the girl—
that was known fully by the jury and by
everyone in court while the Judge’s formal
declaration of the legal message was yet in the
air. This is the first notable feature in the humani-
tarianism of the Echo. Where sentences were
likely to be carried out, the Echo went heartily
with law or remained impassive. When it finds
that the sentence will not be carried out, it hurries
up and pleads for mercy. Truly, Emily Webber
and Dr. Johnson are alike in the matter of
patrons, who wait to see a person safe before
lending a hand. It is in trying to justify itself,
however, that the paper goes back on its past life.
It says that subjective provocation is a far more
powerful impelling force than objective provoca-
tion, and whereas a person taking life under the
latter is guilty of manslaughter only, a person
swayed by the former influence should not be
made suffer the death penalty. After allowing for
certain differences in the meanings of terms, it
will be seen that the Echo virtually abandons the
defence of a law which claims a life for a life.
What we want, while the law is as it is, is to have
the mental state of the murderer—his suscepti-
bility to subjective provocation—made an object o.
scientific: inquiry, not of guesswork by a pracf
titioner whose University has not given him a
single qualification on suoh subjects. We would
prefer the abolition of capital punishment. If,
however, the law will authorise such an inquiry
into mental states as we suggest, and as the Sydney
Echo, if its article means anything, implies the
necessity for, there wi'l, we believe, be a well-
merited rest given to the gallows in New South
Wales.
The O’Sullivan stands in the deadly breach and
his naked weapon flashes forth. Let the foes of
liberty and progress tremble! The saviour of his
country sleeps not, and, one by one, he has set a
mark on the brows of hoary-headed old Wrongs
and Abuses, and their days are numbered. One
by one he disenthrals us from the iron m ?shes of
old tyrannies and sets us up square on our legs
again, a free people. He is going to “beard the
Douglas in his hall ” by asking the Minister of
Justice this awful question: “Is it a fact that in
the prisons of N.B.W. it is the practice to shave
off the beards and whiskers of men sentenced
to brief terms of imprisonment for drunkenness
and other trivial offences ?” He will have no tem_
porising, no “ dodging and paltering’’—that stern
query must be answered with “res” or “No,’
and on the k inister’s head be the consequence.
This is what we like. It is thus that the stately
march of legislation should go on, irrespective of
the tremors of those who sit in high places, and
order the whiskers which a man may “travel on” to
be swept away by a gaol barber, because he may
have taken a little wine for bis stomach’s sake—
at whose edict the beard which may have cost a
lifetime of earnest thought and sincere care shall
be razed because the owner of it has taken one
pint too much. We rejoice to see the statesman-
ship of the O’Sullivan develope, and we wait the
Minister’s reply with anxiety, as our own goatee
is becoming distinctly noticeable.
+
Waterloo is a Sydney suburb that is working for
a prominent place in the annals of Grace. Its
Christian tea-fights are numerous and edifying,
and when the cup that cheers has done its duty,
the mild-mannered men with IODg eyelashes and
white teeth who address the impressionable assem-
blage prove, as a general rule, that a person, es-
pecially if he be a parson, may become audaciously
bold on tea. A few nights ago there was a tea-
meeting in the Primitive Methodist church there,
whioh will serve to illustrate. The good men
were in the usual clerical state—deep, chronic
impeouniosity. The Rev. Bowe expatiated on the
topic, and without putting it as an absolute obli-
gation that each believer should pay a tenth of
his income into the church, made it clear that
much less gave.evidence of a weak sense of duty.
He worked in the “Bitter Cry of Outcast London ”
and the “ Maiden Tribute to Modern Babylon,” and
observed that we have both the Cry and the
Tribute in Melbourne and Sydney. That appeared
to be going away from the company’s pockets,
but he showed he was “there,” as true as the
needle to the North, He argued that these poor
people must be rescued, that the only means of
rescue is the gospel, that;th© church holds the gos-
pel, and that, therefore, contributions . That
iS logic. But take this sample of the deliverance
of Mr. T. P. Beeves, who presided over the
meeting :
“ The teaching of the Bible was that they should
give as God had prospered them—propo tionately,
conscientiously, and systematically. Those who
had prospered in iife, and who 10 years ago gave
£lO to God’s cause would not be giving conscien-
tiously if they gave £lO to-day. Bupposa a married
man without a family had an income of £5OO, he
ought to give one-fifth—that is £loo—to the
church. If he had a large family and heavy ex-
penses one-tenth would be sufficient. Again,
suppose a man had 40s a week coming in and had
also heavy expenses, the least he could give would be
4s. a week, but they must put it by every week, o r else
they would not have it when the collector came
around."
Tne italics in the last few lines are ours. We ask
this question—Can any reader supply us with an
extract from a speech of a wine, a whisky, or a
brandy-drinker that displays more innate conceit,
more cocksure self-complacency, or more bump-
tious audacity than is here presented ? And it was
all spoken off a stomach-full of teal
♦
The news that Beach, “the world’s aquatic
champion,” is appearing on the stage at London
music-halls will alarm his Australian followers. It
may be William drives up to the halls just as he
18 due for his “turn” and flees from temptation
immediately after the admiring audience h r s
gazed upon his manly proportions. But it may be
that he lingers to look upon the wine when it is
red, to accept the homage of second-class book-
makers and first-class “lumberers,” and, alas! to
listen to the seductive tones of the golden-haired
Circes. How many good athletes and true have
been touched by that fatal music-hall taint and
gone physioally wrong! Champions by the dozen
have had their little fling of flash notoriety and
flung away their futuro livelihood the while.


They leave their nerve and muscle at the music-
hall bar. Hanlan, certainly, has shown himself
at places of entertainment once in a way, but the
young Canuck was a man of the world before he
became a lion, while the matured blacksmith is
yet a greenhorn. Not the most intellectual of
greenhorns, either. Quite a different class
of man to Captain Matthsw Webb, who
accomplished the still unparalleled feat
of swimming across the Eoglish Channel.
Webb was a noble, intelligent fellow, but the
cipacity for hard work left him after a short
period of lionisirg in London. He became a kind
of fixture at the Aquarium, the fashionable haunt
of the demi-monde. The once adventurous mer-
chant-saptam took to exhibiting himself in a tank
and swimmirg farcical matches with a boy.
Morally and physically the good-looking “hero”
degenerated. At last, when the money raised for
him by the public was beginning to run short,
Webb began to see his folly. “I’m sick of the
Aquarium and everything else,” he told the
writer of this. Ha went to America, and, with
reckless indifference to the consequences, tried to
swim across Niagara Falls. He knew that his vital
strength was impaired, and that Captain Webb
was-in sporting parlance-” done,” but he had
pluck enough left to jump out of the rowing-boat
and get drowned. And these reminiscences of poor
Matthew Webb are not altogether irrelevant to
the subject of Beach and the London music-halls.
In a "Birthday” review of the Queen's OTth year
the Melbourne Herald is responsible for the fol
lowing bewildering bunkum: “An ugly feature
of the year was the Soc'alist riot in London, but
against that we may set off the unexampled and
most loyal Eight Hours’ Demonstration in Mel-
bourne.” Moses! By what tortuous course of
reasoning does the Herald arrive at the conclu-
sion that an “ eight hours’ ” procession is a coun-
termove to the London riots? The Australian
workingman in his annual " flare-up ” was merely
celebrating one small concession of Capital to
Labour, for which his English brother pleads in
vain. The moving spirit in the two demonstra-
tions was identically the same, and equally dis-
tasteful to the Tories of either country. Put the
so-called “loyalty” of the Australian working-
man to the test. Ship the Melbourne procession-
ists to London to-morrow, and within a month of
landing they would be denounced as revolutionists
by the ruling powers. They would clamour for
the work they couldn’t obtain, or, obtaining
work, they would agitate for fewer hours
and increased pay. Finding themselves in a
condition nearly approaching slavery, they would
kick against the Constitution which fostered here-
ditary rights at the expense of hereditary wrongs.
The Queen would be to them the nominal head of
a system of government under which they were
starving, and they would scarcely call upon God
to save her with the same enthusiasm as of yore.
In a word, they would be “ disloyal.” Lst, on the
other hand, the London Socialists fill the places
vacated by the Australians, give them good wages,
cheap food, and 16 hours for “ recreation and
rest,” and they would become at once most
"loyal” subjects. The loyalty of which the
Herald drivels is merely an expression of satis-
faction with existing institutions. The average
Australian workingman—knowing little and car-
ing little about domestic government at home—
lazily regards the Queen as an existing Eoglish
institution and cries, “ God save her!” If a mon-
a-chy were associated in his mind with royal job-
bery, birth privileges, iniquitous land laws, and
class legislation, the chances are that he would not
cry “ God save her.” But he might substitute a
word for “ save ’’—less loyal, but more emphatic.
“Fendragon.”
And what s the matter now ? So came the ques-
tion at early morning after a night of dream?.
Such dreams. Where had we been through tho
night? There were memories of company such
as never in the world foregathered before. Dukes
without end had been roiled in the mud there.
Bedford in his own “mud-salad,” Westminster
trodden under foot as a common creature. Far
off we had heard a solitary trumpet blow, and
within and without the Almesbury-house that
straDge scene had been once more enacted. Only
was it not the reigning Queen of England we had
seen grovelling as one seeking pardon? Di/es
had appeared to us again, and Lazarus—Lazarus
had grown to a multitude, and Dives was so fear-
fully like many men we had seen and heard about
—the men, indeed, folks call “swells.” Squadrons
had gone charging past. Whose colours did they
carry ? Was it the whistle and crack of whalebone
we had heard or the crash of the splintering
lances ? Over all had burned and blazed “ the
dragon of the great Pendragonship.” Let us get
out of the dream if we can.
The night before we had been sitting under the
verandah of the good old Sydney ian called Petty’s
and had talked with " Pendragon.” That was the
simple practical cause of all the dreamland
trouble. “ Pendragon ’’ of the Beeehee news-
paper. Some of you will remember him “ Pen-
dragon” had an unpleasant way of putting a
probe into Chauvinism, or any other sore or excres-
osnceupon an otherwise fair humanity and Aus-
tralia had, and perhaps has, a fairly large excres-
cence of that sort, and we felt the prick. We were
pricked in this fashion not only to our own uitt-
mate relief, but to an interest in the operator,
and so to a double profit. For “ Pendragon ”is
one of the plain-speaking and straight-writing men
Of the world.
Uader the verandah of the old inn. We are not
going to do any description, the artist will do all
that is necessary there next week. You will know
then how he looked. What did he say ?
We began on sport. It was a proper beginning.
“ Pendragon’has made sport, a sort of centre of
his literary work. He radiates from sport, and
he naturally fixed himself first on our sport. Our
racing. We will be just as short es possible in
putting down his clear opinions on our racing as
racing. Our flat racing wts good, but this seems
to me an important matter for sportsmen—“ you
must not pay any attention to time. There is no
official time taken in any English race. We don t
try to make the fastest two or three or one mile,
but be it honour or busimsj, our great jockeys
reckon all against them and ride to win. I think
we have better jockeys than you have, and possi-
bly better horses on the flat. But perhaps your
jockeys are good enough. Anyhow, don’t follow
us in jockey worship. In steeplechasing you beat
us. You ride—race I mean—at timber in a
fashion that is quite beyond us. I could hard y
believe it was real when I measured the
timber jumps here and the stone walls at
Flemington.” Accidents? “ Yes, you have had
accidents. I saw,one accident. I have examined
the scenes of others. I think I could tell how
those accidents occurred. I have said ycu run
fast. Your accidents always occur on curves
There should be no curve near (within four fur-
longs, I mean) the winning-post of any great race.
A good course must not be anything like a perl'eot
circle. Doesn’t matter what It is round the back,
but there must be tho long straight fora finish.
Also, your average fields are much larger than
ours.
h i e A ? “ 1 don ’ t know if there is anything
i wrong, but it seems to me that your training and
A?!?!. 11 ? 18 . Decu Jiar. In England you could not
nna a training-stable in a back lane, or see a couple
bo 1 9°k as much like rat-catchers as
auses, trying a horse and with a view to running
“A 1 ? m a bl £ race. Our trainers are all licensed
ab * if required, explain the running of
anything in their stable. The trainer, as the
2*’A 8 requi f ed e xplain. Generally the con-
trol of the sport is in the hands of big men.’' And
do they mn or cater for the public at all ?
. Af, ” did not seem to understand, but
he talked right on about what he had seen in Syd-
“^ ha ! i -V e might sea in England. “The
English sportsman ran to win always, no
rp qb A? f that. And he liked to win a good deal.
+«°AriP uke or dustman, if he ran horses, wanted
to win wagers as well as stakes.” But the public.
tb ® P.y b -f° on a racecourse for tne first
ia my life in Sydney You don’t find the
P aDl Ju on aQ y racecourse in Eogland The public
j Y 9 u pay your guinea at A* cot
or Doncaster, and what do you ge' ? A comfort-
mi® Pr?L Wlt f w^ e i ty j nd d£cemt surroundings ?
1?® F £}°°a ot al ® 3 does * and Eord Oarington
Samuel Salmon also, but you do not
flihV to aasoc i a te with roughs, possibly to
Aui „ w i th : h 8; J f you are not watchful you
tam]y . b9 -j obbBd by roughs. There is not
AfA < L e « OUr f e IF England where a man can buy as
for i an F> as . good sport for half a guinea
w B nffiorA n<i, Ti o u' facing is not a people’s sp*rt in
Ragland. It belongs to the privileged and the
dangerous classes. Going home from the Derby,
ffA n 5 home from any great meeting ? “ Yes, it’s a
a^oF^F- 81 would be a strange sight to an
ian ; you know what you would see ?
in ]uxur y , beggary iu rags. Swelldom
affable, courteous, fairly considerate; beggary
working every dodge to extort a penny. Then
aad children all beggars, and mostly
tnievea. ie you went amongst them you would
eertainly be robbed. Probably you would be left
by the wayside ” You think we are better off
P® re xu Yea . Ido think you are better off,” and
men, through many words, “Pendragon” said
with much clearness and force tnat he had never
conceived of a people generally so well off as the
people of New South Wales.
We talked of rich men. “ No, you have no men
d 9,8 °F r g / eat lords and merchant
princes. He spoke of some amongst them. B-.d
ford, Westminster, Rothschild, with incomes
or two and three hundred thousand a year,
dr fl wn chiefly from ground-rents. He did not lead
A 3 ji understand, any more than customary
?;F.?i e 8 A f ordinary English papers lead us to under-
stand, that these peoDle do much for those who
earn their money. Dives and Lazarus seemed
born again as he talked. The luxurious tree of
the aristocracy was shown with the rank
P* Vhfiiaoondage as its natural accompaniment, but
the husbandman and the labourer were outside.
We could no more find the Jive labourer in any
scene of sport than his dead progenitor who was
rotting for the enrichment of the trees which his
living labours might have planted. He did not
come ,to the front in any pictures of English life
* d / eal *y seemed to this cultured, well-
E ra Z el broadly experienced English writer an
unfamiliar thing to find him anywhere to the
tront here. That was the cause of all the dream-
ing, perhaps.
wh< Fj did h P ® ay about us ? Can’t remember
that he said much beyond what is here recorded
He promised to say a good deal in London. He
i,?ii e 8 se ® us a tf a iu shortly and see and say a
little more to us and of us. He did say he couldn’t
stand our trams, he did not think they would stand
them in any English, or European, or American
r to 4‘ th , e H ° UBe ” also, but as R.
B. Smith had left for England, he could not give
his opinion of the one thoroughly representative
Australian gentleman, and it seems now that there
was some injunction laid on the opinions ex-
pressed of others who spoke that night. We will
see if it was so when the Referee comes to hand
and possibly we may supplement this sketch of
wbat ‘‘ Pendragon ” said to us with extracts from
what he says to the people of England. There
will be no clash,for ’‘Pendragon” is always straight,
though some Australians may say not always sd-
preciative.
Queen Victoria.
Dear Bulletin, —Oblige me by passing on
to the sturdy Australians who are your readers a
few spoonsful of the pap-and-molasses upon which
the Sydney Morning Herald nourishes the
loyalty of these lauds. Now, shut your eyes and
open your mouths, and swallow this, from the
Birthday sub-leader:—
“ With the exception of the present Premier of
England there is probably not a person in the
empire who so thoroughly understands the prin-
ciples of the British Constitution. . . She has a
complete knowledge of her duties; and, although
they are onerous and complicated, she has shown
herself capable of performing them. And as she
is one of the first amongst the monarchs of
England in regard to intellectual fitness for the
position which she occupies, she is equal to the
best of them in respect of moral virtues. Her
Majesty is an ideal Englishwoman: she ii wise.
PiP re L sympathetic. She has never supposed
that her office gave her liberty to do what would
be unlawful or censurable in a woman of lower
degree. Rather, she has always felt that because
she is a sovereign she ought to be a model woman.
Ihe breath of calumny has never rested upon her
name, and the atmosphero of her palaces has
always been as pure as that of any home in Great
Britain, She is therefore reverenced wherever
the English language is spoken.”
There you are I Barring G ladstone, Queen Vic-
toria has studied more earnestly, and to better
purpose, the workings of the mighty engine by
which the empire is moved and governed, than
any other person whatever I She is the only
“ person ” whom the Grand Old Man can fitly con-
sult when he finds himself in a tight place I She is
the Grand Old Woman of the concern, whose
counsels have, no doubt, often held back the
nation from taking a rash step 11 In other words,
the authoress of some miserable books, made up
of such unrefined and childish twaddle as would
destrve the application of the avenging birch to
any schoolboy of 12 who would have enough lack
of sense to write them—books, the primary motif
of which seems to be an uncontrollable desire on
the part of the Queen of England to record with
her own hand the sayings and doings of a pheno-
menally surly and miraculously mediocre Scotch
flunkey with sore legs and a good deal of sccrn
for his betters, is second only to the great calm
statesman in knowledge and appreciation of the
laws by which statesmanship is curbed and
guarded.
* * *
She is equal to the best of them in respect of
moral virtues.” Equal to the best of the Normans,
Plantagenets, Tudors, Stuarts, and Dutehand Ger-
man mixtures who have sat on the throne of Eng-
land is good, but rather mild for the Sydney
Morning Herald on such anocoasion. Every
monarch, male or female, who ever ruled Eng-
land, had tens of thousands of unknown subjects
who were equal to them in this way—superior to
them in this way I hope. Is a thoroughly moral
and virtuous woman such a rarity in England to-
day that we are called upon to register our ad-
miration of the Qaeen because “the breath of
calumny has never rested upon her name?”
Surely not. Surely at the present moment there
are among the “worn noble spirits that break in
the world’s solemn shadows, down deep In life’s
valleys ’’-among the hosts of pallid weary women
“ whose Angers thin, push from them faintly
Want and Sin;” very, very many indeed whose
moral virtues are as conspicuous as Queen Vic-
toria’?, and more praiseworthy. Surely the
Herald will admit that in Hu ranks of these who
are b?rn to a life dedicated to the server of
others, among the fatei thralls of England, who,
looking forward from their cradles across a dreary
stretch of bitter unfruitful years see nothing
cheerful ahead but the respite of the grave, there
is virtue here and there. And this is not the virtue
that grows securely and serenely, fenced around
with the impe netrable environments that shield a
throne. Nothing like it. A virtue beset with sore
temptation always; a virtue that must plan and
contrive hourly to hold its life among surrourd-
ings that blight and bias!; a virtue that needs for-
ever to be on guard against its myriad foes- a
virtue higher and greater than they who are born
to the purple can know aught of. But the Herald
exults to think that the Queen of England is as
noticeable for moral virtues as the best of her pre-
decessors !
• •
“ Sympathetic ” ton. Well-yes. Oh, yes,
ympathetic, certainly. Has always stopped at the
sound of woe—and made a speech of condolence.
Tne Howards and Peabcdies and MonteAores were
also sympathetic, but their sympathy was often
expressed in the shape of current coin. The Queen
receives half a million or so yearly as salary. She
owns enormous properties, and a fortune of seve-
ral millions. She has a compact body of more or
less distant relatives, chi A/ of a German cast,
who also batten and fatten on England, and hold
positions which are s necure3 or travesties. With
these also the Queen is probably sympathetic.
With dumb animals ste has evinced her sympathy
by the gift of £lO to the Home for Sick and Indi-
gent Water Dogs or some such British
institution—with human suffering—with any-
thing that should awake a humane heart to its
depths she has evinced little that I know of.
Judging by the Herald s tao id, anyone not know-
ing the ways of royalty might think her Majesty
had obeyed the mandate of that Book which she
says is the Secret of England’s Greatness, and sold
all she had and given the proceeds to the poor. If
she ever practically sympathised with h<>r suffer-
ing subjects to any extent worthy of the Queen of
England, “the Aerce 1 ght which beats upon a
throne ” was turned down a bit at the time, or the
noble army of lickspittles who keep their eyes on
the doings of royalty would have chronicled it
and loved it, and told it over and over again to the
world. Will the Herald tell us when the Queen
rose her height,” and said: “I am the Queen of
England, ruler of the mightiest nation the sun
ever shone upon. I am greatest of all; the kings
of the earth do me reverence. I sway the sceptre
of authority over the most enlightened and
powerful and humane race of men that has yet
been. How can I be greater still ? Thus—l will
give one-half of my vast wealth to appease the
want and misery of my loyal subjects I I will do
this that they who come after may say, ‘ This was
a good woman,’ and that the cry of hungry
thousands may not arise in Merry England while
her Queen accumulates and hoards untold gold I ”
he Herald can’t do ifc. No one can. lam not
aware of any one action which Queen Victoria has
ever done that entitles her to be elevated as a
model of purity, or wisdom, or benevolence, or
anything in particular, except keeping to herself
and showing a certain amount of interest in her
own private affairs. She is Queen of England by
the accident of birth, as certain dolts and lunatics i
and scoundrels have occupied the same throne
before her, and may do so after her. The days
when a monarch was a personal power in England
thank God, are over, and so long as the people
wisely pick their elective representatives l , it does
not matter very much what the personal qualities
of the expensive automaton who gives the Royal
assent and ’reads the addresses may be, save as a
matter of example. And if the British nation had
moulded itself after its Royalty in the pait, what a
happy people it would be today! It is not by
means of sycophantic mu3h of the Herald sort
that loyalty is to be fed in these times. The
divinity that hedged kings cf the George
and Charles stamp has departed. We recog-
nise that the Queen has all the qualities necej-
sary for a nominal ruler, but we know the
Government of Great Britain would get along all
the tame if she had none of them. The people
who “reared, and AuDg the burthen of the second
James” would not take it kindly now if any of
their hereditary rulers were to try their old game-
and use spurs. While the monarchical system
lasts and we are well governed utder it we can be
loyal without the stimulus of idiotie claptrap. We
recognise in the Queen the nominal head of our
Government, but we deny that we know anything
about the woman personally to entitle her to be
above numbers of women all around us, or to call
for all this love and reverence ttut the Herald
slops over with,
Youxs, &0.,
F.
NOTICE.
The Rates oe Subscription lo “ The Bulletin”
are as follows
One year 24/-in advance
Half year 12/6 „ „
Quarter 6/3
Cheques, Drafts, and P.O. Orders, must be made
payable to J. M. HARDING, MaragiEg Director
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
Postage-statnps of any Australian colony ac-
cepted for amounts under £l.
Victorian Parliament met June 2 for the
dispatch of bu— of their opponents.
Graham Berry wires that there is a fly in
“' s , He bears the same name as tte
British hangman.
Sydney Figaro has apologised to the Port
JacKson S. N. Co. This proves that Figaro once
existed. It is live enough to libel people, anyhow.
Sir Henry Parkes is to be entertained at a
public breakfast at Stroud (N.S.W.), by the local
/ °«iniP ars ’''k© lldi June. The tickets, limited
be present° ffered &t U luw ra<e ‘ aud ladlc ® artJ to
CORRESPONPENCE
[Correspondent! who owe neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munication! noticed.]
“ iilus A. Brick” : You must have been
Titus A. Queensland J.P. to ask such a question.
“Con. O’Neill'’: Your luok may be vile, but
your poetry is incomparably more so “Laura
We could onJy describe your sonnet in strictly
Jack Robertsonian terms ..“J.M.” (Raymond
Terrace): Hem received too late for use “H.N.’’
Orange): Thanks. Have forwarded them to the
artist—"S.P.B ”: Thanks. Glad to hear from
you again....“ Camera”: Someone else took your
name, hence, etcetera. The answer of May 15
was meant for him. He does not date from within
miles of your locality, but for all that we cannot
show you his screed, for the W.P.B. is silent as the
glocmy grave —Your verse, by the way, is not
absolutely Byronical.. . .“Deadstone Parson”:
This is one slab from your poem:
“ They h to wed the tops in the hold’s dark gloom,
Ifley moved the lee-scuppers abaft,
1 ’ gain more room the flying iibboom
Was spliced to the keelson aft.”
To print the other 38 would squelch any paper....
“JM. ” You wrote that after drinking shandy-
gaff, did you ? Well, try some other stimulant
next time-arsenic, strychnine, or Warner’s safe
cure, or something....“Cesaandra”: Our little
basket has your little lyric....“ Unit”: Has never,
we believe, been produced in Sydney. We con-
sider the “Seven Ages” considerably ahead....
"Paddy O’Donohue”: It is a pity that you
should waste ink and spoil paper, for the purpose
of writing your alleged poetry.. ..“New Chum”:
Glad to hear from you...." Portrait Gallery:’’
You might .iust as well suggest issuing illustrated
biographies of the Pilgrim Fathers of Australia....
“ N.L.”: Please call on editor...." C.C.J.”: We
look unfavourably upon the proposal to establish
a branch of the A.M.P. Society in England. We
regard the idea as a little bit of unnecessary
Jingoism “ R.A.” : We apologise to the
patriarch Abraham for having made him, by a
slip of the pen, marry his son's wife. Everyone
who has a Bible has written to inform us of our
error, thereby adding to the poignant remorse we
already felt for haviDg caused so much confusion
and unhappiness in the Hebrew family. But we
are glad to find that the students of Holy Writ are
so numerous. We thank them one and all, espe-
cially the correspondent who is kind enough to
say, that Esau the mistake at once “ Miriam ”:
You don’t tell us whether the verses are humour-
ous, sentimental, or heroic. This was an oversight
on your pare. Come to think of it we don't be-
lieve they were either. Metre not good; nothing
in the subject to make the thing boom worth a
Post Office carving. Take these verse 3 about your
new bonnet as a simple:
“Insteal of the deep rich colour.
Oh I what do you think she put,
Bright yellow as yellow as eggs,
I could have kicked it out with m>y foot.
Do you thiak that I will wear it.
And make mjself a guy ?
I would rather burn or tear it,
It is enough to make one cry.”
You see, Miriam, the great heart of this Austra-
lian public won’t sympathise any with you be-
cause the milliner put election-egg-yellow on
your cadie instead of rich old gold. It won’t,
really. We hold its pulse and we know. But yeur
might try some other line. Kill a bushman, or
drover, or cattle-duffer, and write of his grave
under the wattle 3. That's what true Australian
poets do: it takes about five head of bushmen and
1000 acres of wattles a weak to keep one of them in
constant work..." J.Simpson ”: “ Anarchy ”is de-
rived from “ana,” back again, and ‘ archos,”
before the ark, which shows the antiquity of the
system. Noah doubt—but as you are probably a
Scotchman we decline to facetiate further...,
“ C,A.”: It was decided in the oase of Lord Lytton
v. Swan Sonnenschein and Co. (publishers) that
love-letters are (he property of the author, with
whom their copyright remains. You could, there-
fore institute proceedings agaimt anyone who
dares publish your yummy-yum missives
*' Loyalty”: Good; next issue “ W.H.M,”
(Bourke): Have handed it to artist...." J.W.D.”
Thanks for letter. “Plain” E:g!bh must seme
times contain very “ugly” facts ’“ Gamba-
sino”: One or two of your contributions held
over for illustration—“ Kimberley”: All good
pars. They appeared in The Bulletin some
three years ago. Send them to that little Brisbane
rag, which is edited by a file of this paper and a
large pair of soissors...." J. 8.5.”: Would perhaps
be comic if they contained either wit cr humour.
....“ O.B.”: Initials show fate of your MS.—“ ore
burnt.”...." E. Dyson”: Mislaid. Next week....
“P.M.” (Balmain): Sue him in the Small Debts
Court...." The Peripatetic Observer”: Humour
too minute ...“C.C.R.”: Why shouldn’t a widow
burnt-cork her face instead of wearing weeds ?
“J.P.K.”: Next week, perhaps " E F.A.”: Will
deal with next week—“ Kitten”: Many thanks;
Rather late to hand, however. Letter for you at
Post-office.
The Prince of Wales is getting fat. Yes
the fat of theiand.
Mr. Dan. O'Connor, M.L.A., issues a writ
for libel against the Sydney D.T. He only wants
£5OOO.
The running-up of the American flag at
Samoa only meant a temporary protectorate, and
was done with German and British sanction.
The banquet to Mr. P. B. Freehill, M.A.i
president of the fcydney Irish National League,
toad more of reason in it than the majority of such
banquets, fer Mr. Freehill is one who never
sneaked behind a curtain when an unpleasant
word awaited him. He is a clever and useful
public man, and has done much for the cause with
which his name is most intimateiy associated.


Persona
Items
We notice from the printed facsimile of a
letter written by Dr. Beaney, of Melbourne, as to
the merits of a certain brand of champagne, that
the doctor spells bouquet “boquet.
We presume that the Rev. W. Poole, who
was saved from the disastrous wreck of the
Ly-ee-Moon, is identical with the kindly old gen-
tleman who for many years was sub-editor of the
Melbourne Age.
On the night of his
great Irish speech Mr.
Gladstone wore the rose
and the shamrock in his
button-hole. Some at-
tribute the idea to Mrs.
Gladstone; others assert
it proceeded from the
fertile brain of Lord
Rosebery.
Mrs. Mortimer
Franklyn has won the
£654 (balance of money
settled upon her) which
she has been trying for.
Mortimer’s late employes,
who had hoped to get
their little lots out of this
are now plunged in
gloom, and wand e r
around Melbourne with
tongues absolutely
cracked with thirst.
Does anybody want
a good deal of husband ?
This question is asked
apropos to the fact that
Mr. Thomas Jennings,
who weighs 365 t., less
or more, and is, so far as
can be learned, the fattest
and best-natured man in
Australasia, authorises
The Bulletin to an-
nounce that he wants a
wife, who must be good-
looking and not under 40
years of age. Thomas,
who has a neat little
hostelry on theNewtown
Road, Hobart, has grown
tired of single-blessed-
ness and wishes to
espouse a zephyr whom
be can carry in his
pocket and hide in his
shoe. The would-be
bridegroom is a little
over 60 years of age, and
apparently possesses a
weath of affection and
sobriety.
The last Queen’s
Birthday Review at Mel-
bourne will ever live in
the memories of those
privileged to be present
(do you take this for a
daily paper ? Ed. B.]
His Excellency the Go-
vernor’s horse fell oyer.
His Excellency the Go-
vernor followed suit. The
hearts of civilian spec-
tators beat audibly. Even
the faces of the troops—
men inured to battle,
murder, and sud d e n
death from their infancy
—blanched with military
precision. The warriors
comprising tne bands
tearfully awaited a signal
to strike up the Dead
March in Saul, or Bound
for the Better Land. The
glittering staff seemed
troubled with a misgiv-
ing that vice-regal eti-
quette required them to
fall off their horses and
bite the dust. ’T was an
awful moment for all
parties. Even the very
sun hid his frighted face
behind a passing cloud
until his Excellency
picked himself up and re-
mounted. Then, then
Melbourne breathed
again, and joy became
general. Mothers fe 11
upon the necks of their
only sons, who, in turn,
passed on the embrace to
their best girls. . Esthers
kissed their daugbters-
or any other young
women that came handy.
Nurses held up crowipg
babes to see for them-
selves that their adored
Governor still lived and
had his being. .Happy
boys (who regarded the
tumble as part of the
day’s programme) cried
‘■do it agin, yer honor.
Yes, the scene will ever
live in the mem. [drop it.
—Ed. B.] But we cannot
draw this narrative to a
conclusion without call-
ing attention to the cause
of the Governor’s spill.
The cheering of the mul-
titude frightened his
horse. The moral is ob-
vious. If a Victorian
multitude have any re-
gard for their Governor,
consideration for hi s
horse, or respect for
themselves, they will re-
strain their dangerous
enthusiasm henceforth,
and for ever, amen.
Prince Albert Victor of Wales is likely to
make an ideal monaroh when his turn comes. At
a recent dinner in London the dear young man
broke down miserably over a short speech neatly
written out for him on a card. This is as it should
be A kin* with brains would never rest until he
had started a conspiracy to overturn the throne
and ordered himself out for instant execution.
Mr Austin Saqui. the Melbourne book-
maker, was so misguided as to put a police
Borireant in the box as his witness in the slander
case Police evidence is out of favour just now,
and the result of this move might have been anti-
cipated. Saqui was let in for £3OO and costs.
Somehow there seems a sympathetic link between
the ring and the foorce. Meiklejohn, the London
detective, who went wrong and got two years for
it, started a book as soon as his time was up.
The Duke of Cambridge, the Queen’s
cousin, gets, as Field-Marshal Commanding-in-
Chief, £4500 per annum; as Colonel of the Grena-
dier Guards, £2132 per annum; Ranger of Bt.
James’s, Green, and Hyde Parks, £2llO per an-
num- he draws, besides, £12,000 per annum from
the Consolidated Fund. And all this because he
rodo up to Lord Raglan in the Crimea, exclaiming,
With tears in his eyes; “My God I they areshoot-
ing at the Guards”—as if the latter were too
sacred to he shot at.
It pains us to hear that Tawhiao—for
whom we always entertained a humble esteem—
has at last almost been persuaded into taking a
seat in the Legislative Council of New Zealand.
He has refused this previously, in terms, we
believe, amounting to little less than scorn. But
now that he is growing into years, and has joined
the Blue Ribbon Army, the insidious Pakeha
thinks he can play it low down on the poor old
monarch and shelve him in dummy dignity
among the ancestral mummies of New Zealand.
We are sore and sorry to hear it—hut if he had
stuck to his liquor like a man this would never
have happened him. Tawhaio. M.L C.I Alas for the
good old days of cannibalism I
Mr. Robert Stout, the Premier of New
Zealand, has an order of knighthood coming out
to him (carriage paid) by the next mall. Mr. Stout
is a Freethinker of the freest kind. We shall now
look forward to hearing that Bradlaugh has been
made a baron, Joseph Symes an earl, and Ada
Campbell a countess. What have the churches to
say to this desecration of ancient titles ? There
was a good old time (as they would call it) when,
instead of receiving the flat of a sword on his
V oV 44-
nn«
it. vJ , I
*• V c \
X\\ f
Chiefly Allegorical:
A GLANCE AT THE PACIFIC, BY OUR JAPANESE ARTIST.
houlder and rising up Sir Robert Stout, the New
Zealand Premier would have received the edge of
it on his neck and never rise up again anything
until Gabriel called him. What a pity these good
old times have passed away! Is it not, Zachary
Barry and Kyardinal Moran ?
Miss Helen Hart, the lecturess, who re-
cently made herself famous by horsewhipping an
editor, Is a lady of considerably enterprising views.
She calls herself “ The Reverend Helen Hart ”
now, by the way. The other Sunday she paralysed
the congregation of a church In Cast'.emaine
(Vie.) by marching In and taking a front pew.
When the plate came round she calmly dropped in
a card on one side of which was the inscription,
“ The Reverend Helen Hart,” and on the other,
“ The woman slandered at the black office.” This
was her playful way of alluding to the establish-
ment of the poor editor she had horsewhipped. Mias
Hart has such a magnificent genius for advertis-
ing that we think it is a pity she wasted her time
in lecturing. She should engage herself as ad-
vance agent for a mule menagerie or a tom-oat
tournament.
Mr. Stuart Cumberland has only been six
years in the thought-reading line altogether, and
he talks already of shutting up shop and retiring
from show-business. Wo expect au invasion of
thought-readers, as a consequence. Manifestly
there is money in the “science.” We are not
by any means disposed to scoff at the feats of
Mr. Cumberland. Considered psychologically,
apart altogether from the demonstrations given,
there is an intelligible basis for such a power.
What makes us pause is that having put it into
shape Mr. Cumberland did not direct it to the
achievement of something better than he has so
far aimed at. His announcements have a sad
Cheap John look, his manner exhales repressed
showmanship, and his feats have all the click of
tricks. This is putting the infancy of a science in
very ragged long-clothes.
We thought we had done with him long
ago, hut it is not so. He has re-appeared again
with more indisputable proofs of his identity than
ever. And probably he, the only genuine Sir
Roger Tichborne, will keep on bobbing up in
every quarter of the globe wherever news is
scarce, and sensation has a distinct commercial
value. This time he is guaranteed by the editor
of the ’Frisco Argonaut. He has the tattoo
marks and lancet-marks which are known to have
adorned the epidermis of the real Sir Roger, and
his Abigailian eccentricities in the way of spelling
coincide exactly with those that attested the
originality of the long-lost baronet. He and his
claims will probably give the newspapers and
lawyers of England an all-the-year-round halle-
lujah picnic, similar to that vouchsafed to them
by Arthur Orton in times long past.
As Brisbane society is in something of a
flutter just now about its hangmaD, a little grati-
fication may be derived from knowing that Car-
lisle; in England, is in a “stir” on a similar sub-
ject. Such coincidences do occur. Mr. Berry, the
functionary who sees people “ off ” aoross the
water, completed a job one morning in Carlisle
gaol. In addition to a screw of £lO per head for
finishes, and half-price for reprieves, he takes
away as perquisites the dead man’s clothes and
the rope with which he suspends him. On this
occasion he rolled up the clothes, tied the rope
about them, and carrying the bundle into the
principal hotel in the town, planked it down on
the end of the table, and seated himself for break-
fast. The other breakfastars fled, and when
Berry was satisfied, he passed out among them in
the hail, informing them that he tvas a civil
officer worth £lOO year, and hoped to deal with
them one by one in the regular course of business.
The Rev. Arthur Gray stone, of Tankerton
Towers, Kent, died recently, leaving four millions
of money. Twenty-five years ago he was curate
of Clay Cross; then he held a similar post at Gains-
borough; subsequently he was a curate down In
Hampshire; then vicar of Sutton-on-Trent; next
rector of Cottered, and finally vicar of Burleigh.
Now, this burley vicar never held any highly re-
munerative ecclesiastical office. How, then, was his
money acquired ? Was It by unremitting atten-
tion to theological business ? Did he go round
with the hat himself ? Was it amassed by turf
speculation or on ’Change, or bequeathed to him
by his fat aunt, or some wealthy female par-
ishioners ? Doubtless, in the six villages, where
Mr. Graystone at various periods was spiritual
director, there were many filled to repletion with
the sincere milk of the word, while starving for
lack of bodily aliment. If he, while carefully at-
tending to their psychical wants, had devoted a
portion of his hoard to the alleviation of their
physical miseries, his two sons would not have
contributed so largely to the Exchequer by way
of legacy duty. If clergymen go on like this the
Bevisad Edition will require revision, as some
awkwardly worded and inconvenient passages
. still remain.
A member of the
Commons went into the
Parliamentary cloakroom
to get his overcoat. By
mistake he took down
Mr. Parnell’s eoat from
the rack and found—a
revolver in each pocket.
It is related of the
lately deceased Dr. For-
tescue, of Sydney, who
as a medico and as a man
of the world justly en-
joyed a popularity unri-
valled in Australasia, that
he trusted to his memory
alone and kept no notes
whatever of his patients’
cases. To such a length
indeed did he carry his
peculiar system that he
never even wrote up a
list of the patients whom
he had to visit from day
to day. With very tri-
fling exceptions this
unique plan worked satis-
factorily for many years.
One of the trifling excep-
tions, recorded by a mali-
cious brother medico,
was that the doctor once
went to visit a patient
who had been a week
dead.
The remains of F.
Fisher, the Bydney fire-
man who lost his life in the
burning at Leichhardt,
were carried to the
Waverley cemetery last
week, in what was con-
sidered worthy style.
That is, in the words of
an evening paper, “ the
fire engine made a fitting
hearse, and on It were l«Jd
the blood and eartl
stained clothing worn 7
deceased at’tiie time
wall crushed hits. Uue
engine was drapecKryith
Union-Jacks and
the gayness of the hunt-
ing being relieved tr
crape bows.” It was n
the fault of the dead r r
that those who tried'
him honour had e-
bizarre sense of '
ness of things, x-eople
talk of the want of bh
Australian novelist or
poet, but it will be hard
for either to imagine high
things in an atmosphere
where such “ blood and
earth-stained ” morbidity
can be exhibited without
offence to public taste.
We observed in the
Melbourne Age, the
other day, a paragraph to
the effect that the body
of a man had been found
floating in the Yarra, and
that in one of its pockets
a pawn-ticket had been
found, bearing the name
of “ Peter Campbell.
We were much cast down
over this for several
days. We thought w»
had lost our old friend.
You can judge, therefore,
of our surprise when we
met him the other night,
leading the laughter—at
the Minstrels! We were
glad at first but gloom
covered us like a garment
when we began to reflect
upon the matter subse-
quently. The thought
that struck us was this:
Whether is it better for a
minister of the gospel to
be found floating down
the Yarra, with peace on
his face, and a pawn-
ticket in his pocket, or
be discovered at a Min-
strel show regaling him-
self, by listening to god-
less songs and gazing de-
lightedly upon a row ot
feminine legs (yes, leg 8""
we must tell the shocking
truth whatever it costs;
encased in silk stocking B '
We know wbatKyardinal
Moran would say. Never-
theless Peter seemed to
enjoy himself amazingly*
We do not think that,
when he goes to Heaven
-as, of course, he will—
he will much affect tß©
society of the Cherubim*
You can think out the
reason for this at your
leisure.
Sir John Robertson, having said lately
that he couldn’t persuade his banker to believe
that he is rich now, one Queensland paper printed
the remark, putting, by mistake, “baker" f cr
“ banker.” Thereupon three or four other news-
papers In the up-country deliver themselves o
articles, comparing the self-abnegation of N*»*w
politicians with the greed and avarice of Queen
land ones. They dwell on the Spartan virtue or
Minister of the Crown—a man who, for a genero
tior, held the country in his hand— behag reduc _
to the necessity of telling his bakers bo .y the
again. This shows with what solemn visage' ,
conscientious compositor should stare at copj
even when it is reprint.
The memory of the Rev. D. Jones Ham
is revived by the publication in some
papers of a copy of verses found on his Doay »
death. It is only a little while since he died. * n _
world rolls so fast, however, that Heforo
dertaker’s bill Is paid, everyone, except the ner (
relative, forgets about the funeral. M®.
was one of the best preachers, and, to oui jfied
one of the frankest men in Melbourne. He » a
ttao status of his church in Collins-street; ° I{o
low to a high degree of public oatimati n
was indeed a politician to an extent,


caught the annexation lever, and, as we
judge, was altogether wrong on this head. But he
had a fine impulsive wilful way of being
wrong that, in our contact with him, made us far
prefer him to many people whose views we like
better. It may be remembered that he went to
New Zealand lately for his health, and died sud-
denly while there. He was an excellent musician,
vocal and instrumental, and composed some very
pretty airs. Devotional poetry is not specially in
our line, but the following verse out of the poem
in question contains so much of the man and so
much of the old religious spirit of abandon which
seems to be now almost dead that we are induced
to print it:—
“ I journey, on, not knowing;
I would not if I might;
I would rather walk in dark with God
Than walk alone in the light;
I would rather walk with Him by faith
Than walk alone by sight.”
This interesting item from the proceed-
ings in the House of Commons is from an English
exchange “ The only noteworthy incident in
connection with the catechising of Ministers was
supplied by the irrepressible Mr. Henniker
Heaton. Rising amid loud cries of ‘ Order,’ he
asked leave to put a question to the Under-Secre-
tary for the Colonies. Mr. Osborne Morgan, the
official in question, was sitting perdu at the ex-
treme end of the Treasury bench, which runs past
the Speaker’s chair. After a pause, the right hon.
gentleman came forth and remarked that he had
not received any notice of the question which the
hon. member proposed to put. Mr. Henniker
Heaton, however, still kept on bis legs, undis-
mayed by the shouts which were intended
to inform him, a new member, that he
was transgressing the rules of the House. Plung-
ing his hand Into his breast coat pocket, he pro-
duced a document; whereupon Mr Osborne
Morgan sat down. In deference to renewed cries
of ‘ Order,’ Mr. Henniker Heaton sat down, too,
but immediately rose again and essayed to read
his document. The Speaker intervened, and Mr.
Henniker Heaton, submitting himself to the feel-
ing of the House, once more resumed his seat.
The Speaker, evidently thinking that the incident
had closed, followed the hon. member’s example,
but Mr. Henniker Heaton had not finished. In-
stantly he was on his legs, again fumbling in his
pocket for more papers, but not being able to find
them, he finally subsided into his seat, amidst roars
of derisive laughter from all parts of the House.
Mr. Henniker Heaton is every day adding to his
parliamentary reputation.” Again the “repre-
sentative Australian” has made a representative
ass of himself: a work which most persons in
Australia will deem entirely supererogatory.
“The Sydney Corporation will celebrate
the Queen’s Jubilee by a grand banquet.”
If there is any great joy in being an old man,
and going 43 better than the Scriptural allowance
of three score and 10 years for the limit of a man’s
life, that joy is possessed by a hilarious old party
now living at Carrick, in Tasmania. He has just
rounded the milestone of 113 years of age without
turning a hair, and as fresh as paint. His story,
too, is rather curious in its way. He is the nephew
of Baron Jervis, Earl St. Vincent, a famous naval
commander and a dictatorial old personage when
be was alive, if all his venerable neohew says be
true. What that nephew says is that he ran away
from the ship commanded by his noble uncle
when that illustrious relative was out here with a
squadron at some period in the dark ages. He
stole away in a boat, did that errant nephew, and
landed on the shores of that healthy little island
of which he is now the prize antique. The
reason he gives for having run away is
that he was afraid of his uncle, as he
(the nephew) was the son of an elder
brother of Lord Jervis, and would in course of
time come into the family estates if his thoughtful
uncle did not previously maroon him or utilise
him for sharkbait. When he escaped he assumed
a false name, so that this terrible Turk of an uncle
never could find him, though he (the uncle)
chartered a shipload of secret agents to discover
his whereabouts. The people of Carrick are
naturally very proud of this old aristocrat. Let’s
see. When we get to be over 100, whose son or
nephew shall we state we are ? The son of the
Emneror of China? Scarcely. We are too hand-
some. Hah! The youDger brother of Sir Alex-
ander Stuart. Nobody will wish to dispute that
claim with us, and we shall drink votive shandygaff
and smoke eleemosynary tobacco to the end of our
days on the strength of it.
Poor old J. T. Fallon, Australia’s best-
known vigneron, has gone over at last, died in his
cot at Manly with the Sisters of Mercy about him,
and his friends and relatives, in deep affliction,
doubtless, at his bedside. The old man bad been
dead to any really useful life for years past. Hav-
ing warmed up the embers of the dying fire with
good Scotch whisky, helwould talk a bit. Upon
his own subject of vine-growing and wine-making
he could always talk; but the bulk of his life had
for the past four years been sleep, all sleep. He
would sit beneath the verandah of Cousens’ Hotel
and sleep till 10 at night, wake up then, moved by
some blind instinct, and feel his way home, get to
bed and sleep till morning. Sleep again on the
boat and pass a few drowsy hours amongst his old
associates in the city. It seemed a poor sort of a
die-out to those who knew the old man at his best,
for in active middle life he was one of the stoutest-
hearted speculators who ever made money in New
South Wales. Without any Government aid or
advertisement of exhibitions he took his wine to
Europe and made a name for it, introduced it to
London and Paris and cleared the way for that
great Australian wine trade which now seems to
be fairly begun. When the time comes for a fair
and full recognition of the men who have done best
work in laying the f ©undations of commercial Aus-
tralia “Old Fallon" will not be forgotten. His statue
will stand amongst the vines, and the ten thousand
successful vintners will drink to his immortal
memory, nor fear the curse of any more demented
beings house and home and.body and soul burned
up with bad liquor. There was never any poison
sold in the bottles packed in old Fallon’s stores,
whatever may have come from the establishment
of aristocratic merchants beneath his forged
labels. Would you like to know what sort of an
old fellow he was in his declining years ? The fol-
lowing little yarn may illuminate him for you:—
A Brummagem sort of fellow was talking in the
Steyne (Manly) one night. He was nearly a new
chum, and he was going to Albury. Old Fallon,
always kind, said—“ lam going myself in a week
or two; I shall be glad to introduce you.” Brum-
magem replied—” Quite superfluous, my dear sir,
the Mayor of Albury is a personal friend of mine.”
Under, his glasses and through all his feebleness
of years, the old man’s eyes twinkled—“As
you like, sir—as you like,” said he, “ let every
man do as he likes, but I do assure you when I get
there the Mayor of Albury will be a very small
man.”
Persons who work behind desks and work-
tables to them Wolfe’s Schnapps is recommended
Woman Items
The latest thing in England is a forth-
ball notable from the fact that all ladies
skirt; Dg i re( l uire< l to wear the divided
We read in a London paper that at a
recent “ rational dress meeting ” in London, Mrs.
Oscar Wilde “ wore cinnamon * trowsers.’ ”
American papers report the approaching
marriage of Mrs. Langtry and Freddie Gebhardt
as an established fact. But what about Mr. Lang-
try ? Has he made any arrangements to ensure
his early decease ?
At Belfast, Ireland, in the petticoats of a
woman suspected of sly-grog selling were found
36 bottles of porter and a quart of whisky. The
petticoats were made of coarse sacking, and con-
tained innumerable pockets all round them, with
material between each pocket in order to prevent
the bottles clinking.
The Townsville (Q.) small debts court has
had to decide a breach of promise case. Ellen
Donohue sued Edward Walsh for promising to
marry her, and then marrying another girl. When
Ellen asked Edward why he had not kept his
promise, he replied “Go and die.” Nellie got £3O
to soothe her wounded feelings.
The Ursa Major is the new name for the
most fashionable full dress worn by ladies. Ursa
Major means Great Bare. Which reminds us of
a calamity that greatly embarrassed a popular
song-and-dance artiste at a Sydney theatre a few
nights ago. In the midst of her song one half of
the garments suddenly fell off. You needn’t pre-
tend to be shocked at this,—it was only her neck-
lace that dropped.
He felt ill and melancholy and down in
the mouth, and he determined to reform and lead
a new life, and he commenced proceedings by
taking his wife to the theatre on a first night. And
a glow of virtue encircled him e’en as a halo, as he
sat in the back row of the stalls till the voice of
an intelligent pittite fell on his ear:-“ What a
chap he is for the fair sex! Got another new one
that I have never seen before with him till to-
night.”
Dumley was introduced to a young lady,
and after a remark about the weather, he said
gallantly—“ And have I really the pleasure of
meeting the beautiful Miss Smith, whose praises
are being sounded by everybody ? ” “ Oh, no,
Mr. Dumley,” the lady replied, “the beautiful
Miss Smith, to whom you refer, is a cousin of
mine.” “Oh that’s itl Well, I thought there
must be a mistake somewhere,” said the gallant
Dumley.
“ You have been convicted of an atrocious
act of bigamy,” remarked the Judge impressively,
while the prisoner glanced over his shoulder at
two stern-visaged women. “ Now,” continued his
Honor, “ I intend to give the severest penalty the
law allows.” Here the prisoner covered his face
and wept. “ I shall sentence you to seven years’
penal servitud e. What are you laughing at ? ” “I
thought,” smiled the prisoner through his tears,
you was a-going to turn me loose.”
In the heyday of her oareer, the notorious
Cora Pearl once took it into her head always to
appear in public with a little poodle dog dyed to
match the costume she was wearing. She was
seen, for instance, at the theatre in emerald green
velvet with a green little dog under her arm. But
one day she caused one of these unhappy little
beasts to be coloured with poisonous dye and the
creature died. The police took umbrage at this,
and that was an end of Mdlle. Cora’s many-coloured
poodle dogs.
Young ladies of rank, who have violated
duty and propriety by a runaway marriage are not
aliowed to appear at Court; at least, not for some
length of time afterwards. Only certain pro-
fessions are admitted at Court after the nobility
and squirearchy. The wives and daughters of the
clergy, of naval and military officers, of physicians,
and of barristers, have a right to presentation at
Court. These are aristocratic professions. The
wives and daughters of solicitors and general
practitioners are not entitled to presentation, nor
are the families of merchants, though wealth and
connection have proved a passport of late years.
Mrs. Leavitt, the' Yankee temperance
lecturess, records in a N.Q. paper her opinion that
“ a new national character is developing in Aus-
tralia as different from the English as our own,
and yet not the American character to any appre-
ciate extent.” The chief characteristics of the
Australian national character, according to the
lady, are a disposition to wait for Government to
do everything; and a strongly-marked tendency,
specially on the part of the young, “to look for
easy places—wealth, without working for it.”
Mary s judgment when boiled dowD amounts to
this—Australia is a place which wants to live on
borrowed money, and in which everyone is wait-
ing for a fat Government billet.
“ Theta,” writing in the S.M. Herald on
the Divorce Extension Bill, touches on new
ground. He does not object to divorce laws, but
denies to a man or woman, married under one
set of laws, the claim to a divorce on grounds es-
tablished bylaws afterwards put on the Statute
book. There is a serious moral sentiment in this
distinction. If a man marries, knowing that on
certain things arising he can obtain a divorce, and
that on no other grounds can he do so, he cannot
be admitted to act in a perfectly moral way if he
comes up under a new law and claims release on
one of the grounds which, at marriage, he knew
was not a ground for divorce. In other words, he
cannot morally enter into marriage under one law,
and seek to leave it under another.
Egerton (which is in Victoria) was the
scene of a grand pyrotechnic display lately. It
appears that a young man who had been engaged
to a girl up tlure eloped with himself to Mel-
bourne on the day when the weddiDg was to have
taken place. The indignant inhabitants immedi-
ately set to and made an effigy of him which,—
after every man in the town had had a kick at it,
and every woman a prod at it with a pitchfork—
they placed in a tar-barrel and burnt with demon-
strations of inhuman glee. This infantile fury is
very amusing in its way. It is interesting also as
a remnant of the savage sign-language of our an-
cestors. But for all that we have seen lovely
women by the score rather than marry whom we
would joyfully be burnt in effigy every day in the
year for the rest of our lives.
“ His temperature is very, very high,”
gravely said the doctor, shaking his head over the
sick boy; “ unless it goes down we can’t say how
bad he’ll be.” And, as night wore on, the child
seemed to grow more feverish, and tossed and
turned uneasily. “I will see,” said the baby
matron, “ for myself what my lad’s temperature
is,” and presently the prettiest feet in Sydney
carried a radiant little woman downstairs, who
burst out—“ He is all right, I have taken his tem-
perature, and it is not more than 27.” The fact
that, as a rule, doctors don’t employ a common or
garden thermometer for so scientific a process,
and the fact that the absence of any mercury from
a thermometer may possibly interfere with its
utility, might have been pointed out to her, but
there was no one present with sufficient pluck to
undeceive her.
Hooray! you can’t libel your wife! There
is in London a comic singer who calls himself
“The Great Vance.” Well, the other day this
great one having in a newspaper that
Emma Vance, his wife, was in no way related to
him, Emma made application to the Lord Mayor
for a summons for malicious libel, for she declared
the said advertisements were disparaging to her
reputation in that they suggested she had lived
with A. G. V. not as his wife, but as his mistress.
The Lord Mayor having declined to accede to the
lady’s request, she proceeded to seek justice in a
higher court. Accordingly, Mr. Justice Smith, in
the Court of Queen’s Bench, delivered judgment
in the matter, and decided that neither as the law
stood prior to the Married Women’s Property Act,
1870, nor as it had stood since, could a wife and
husband prosecute each other for personal libel.
Queen Victoria is thus described by a
London correspondent:—“ She is still healthy-
looking and evidently vigorous for her years, but
looks every day of her age. The lines about the
eyes and mouth are deep and many, and the hair
is very, very grey; but there remains the same
expressive smile that has had a charm even for
the Queen’s most virulent detractors. Her Majesty
was wearing a comfortable, capacious bonnet,
that we should set down as being an old favourite,
and one which she was unwilling to cast aside.
That it was black goes without saying. The
strings were tied in a huge bow underneath the
chin and fell upon the front of a loose spreading
dolman, which, like the bonnet, was evidently
another faithful old friend. Her hands were en-
cased in black kids, the buttons and button-holes
of which had with difficulty been persuaded to
unite about the plump, well-shaped wrists. As a
girl, the] Queen had the prettiest, most delicate
hands imaginable.”
Miss Mary Anderson received a very
“nasty jar” in Boston recently. She went to an
art institute to hear a lecture on painting, and
wore such a remarkable head-gear that it riled the
pupils,-girls of course,—so much that they mali-
ciously informed the superintendent that she was
an English model seeking employment. The mas-
ter thereupon walked over to where Mary sat and,
after inflicting upon her a critical stare that took
her in from top to toe, said:—“l guess you’ll do.”
“Sirl” demanded Miss Anderson, haughtily. “Do
you pose draped, or ?” “Sirl!” cried the in-
dignant actress, with increasing anger. “Come,
come,” said the professor; “don’t be impudent.
We can’t have that sort of thing over here. You
have a good face, and you look as if you had a
good figure. You can go into the nude or draped
class to-morrow, if you choose, at the regular
rates. Be round at 10 sharp.” The girl
students were maliciously jubilant at the
success of their little joke ; “ Our Mary’s ”
crimson face and terrible rage affording them the
liveliest satisfaction. As for the victim herself,
she turned about and shook the dust of the Art
Institute from off her number three shoes for
ever. When she patronises art lectures at the
Boston Institute again the Last Trump will be on
the point of sounding. It is astonishing what a
muss girls will make to revenge themselves on a
woman whose hat does not please them, and it is
still more wonderful to see how much they will
dare and do to procure a hat which does please.
Thunder I We often think that a woman won’t
wear a heavenly halo unless it has some “ per-
fectly lovely ” frilling and stuff over it. And our
heart sinks as we ask it, how will the sex endure
existence in a place where the fashion in haloes,
the only style of head-gear permitted, never
changes ?
A SYDNEY CHARACTER SKETCH:
Cheap Jack, who wanted to sell knives to
the departing Kimberley diggers on the
wharf.
How artfully he poultices his finger to
make people believe his knives would cut.
Judging from the number of wife-beating
cases which have come before N.S.W. courts of
late, it would seem that there is either a desire on
the part of the wallopers to prove the necessity
for the passing of the new Divorce Act, or else
these humorous husbands are determined to en-
joy their little amusement at any cost whatever.
Wife-whacking, by the way, is a very old, even if
it’s not a very honourable practice, for part of a
Babylonian inscription, which contains a lament
for the death of a warrior who went under B.C.
2000 years, says: “ The bow from the ground thou
dost not grasp; the wife whom thou hatest thou
dost not strike; thou art gone to the seat of the
god Irkalla.” From Bavarian records of the 14th
century it appears that it was the custom to allow
married couples to settle their little disputes by
means of conjugal duels in public. “For this
purpose,” says a faithful chronicler, “ the woman
must be so prepared that a sleeve of her
chemise extends a small ell beyond her hand
like a little bag; therein is placed a stone weighing
31b„ and she has nothing else on but her chemise.
Then the man maketh himself ready in a pit oppo-
site his wife. He is buried therein up to his girdle,
and one of his hands is bound at the elbow to his
side. A short stick is placed in his hand, and he is
able to turn round in the pit. At a given signal
the fight doth begin, and the party vanquished
has to submit to the other for a year.” That the
woman, in spite of her formidable “ gibber,” was
not always victorious is proved by a drawing in
the public library at G otha, which shows the man
the conqueror, as he has pulled his wife headfore-
most into the pit, where she appears with her hoels
in the air, while he welts away with his waddy
with all the vim of a Salvation Army drummer.
Even to-day, in Austria, the law is that the head
of a family is absolute master of his household,
and no one can prevent him from chastising
his wife, or hia children, if he deems the
punishment useful. Ladies would do well to fight
shy of Austrian lovers unless they are content to
take their gruel without a murmur.
An inoident tragio but common, yet
rendered noteworthy by some peculiar and de-
lightful features, occurred at Castle Bromwich,
near Birmingham, in March last. A girl named
Mary Ann Turner, who had been formerly em-
ployed as a dressmaker, loved a youth named
Bagnall, the son of a well-to-do briokmaker, and
a chorister in the church as well. Under the
usual time-honoured promise of marriage, Bag-
nall seduced the girl. One night as he was return-
ing from choir practice she met him, and appealed
to him for assistance. She explained that she had
no money, no work, and no bed to sleep upon, and I
threatened to kill herse’f. He merely hummed |
£|je ,P ox olo£y, and strolled home, leaving her in
hntt ne ’ following morning he sent a
si?i she had kept hor word about the
l? e husiness. She had. She was found drowned
!n,^,?i ond i ne &r the elder Bagnall’s house. Pre-
viously she had seen the father, but he refused to
give her shelter. At the inquest the father and
son were severely censured. Publio indignation
wa2I n a ed *v. a height that threatening letters
SfoHil 6 ?* the and the son found it ad-
I visable to decamp to Derby. On arriving* there.
! ™^ e « er ’ * e met .with anything but a flattering
his friends, and not having time
he left Castle Bromwich to possess himself
ha J^ U o “® ne y* had to tramp back to Birming-
nam, and thence to Castle Bromwich, arriving*
harn o lr wi de <- n time, and secreting himself in a
har®- Next day it was expected that an attack
made on Bagnall’s house, and police pre-
At leasfc 30.000 visited the
a hc ! od i n the course of the day, including
a contingent of roughs from Birmingham and
barney, in the afternoon they commenced throw-
stones, completely overpowering the police,
and demqhshed the brickyard and sheds belonging
to Bagman, senior. With the woodwork they made
tii» U ?n,^ on ®t r i, e ‘ After smashing the windows of
the house, they tore a portion of the roof off,
nnfl w?J« he hitohen, and pitched out all the food
a ®h kitchen utensils. A barrel of beer was rolled
t° the crowd. The poultry were caught and
hhled and thrown through the windows. Both of
the Bagnalls escaped. Before the crowd were dis-
Retsed the premises were in ruins. All honour to
o l S rou £hs, likewise to those of
o^.,t y ]v. I£ there were more roughs of that sort
about they would ao more to help along social
5255? ttmn any number of Acts administered by
E urple-faced libertines. We mourn even as Lord
Loftus might for the fate of the innocent poultry,
but accepting the evil with the good we cry,
“Honour to the roughs I”
The question of stage-kissing has again
cropped up. The last time that the beautiful
toll e £ e te pl^edJuliet in N.Y., says the
BUN, she had bidden Borneo a lingering farewell.
« n /L was burning away from the balcony, when a
sudden whim seemed to seize her, and, wheeling
about swiftly, she caught his face in both her
hands, and, leaning forward, gazed into his eyes.
The house was still as death. The audience,
already seriously wrought upon, and feeling
parched, arid, and uncouth, leaned forward ner-
vously. Two thousand eyes were riveted upon
the actress. There was a long wail; then she
siowly pressed her lips to Borneo’s, and seemed
lost.to everything around her. The people sat
like stones. A programme floated down from
tind fell athwart a woman’s bonnet, and she
did not raise her hand to remove it. A spinster
eeughed. Juliet raised her head slowly, and
glided away, looking back over her shoulders as
she disappeared with an expression that no man
who saw it will ever forget. There was a long
sflence, and then the play went on. But no one
paid the slightest attention to it. One by one the
peopie relaxed their strained and Intent
attitudes, and leaned back in their chairs. There
was no rustle or noise. The woman did not notice
the programme on her bonnet until the curtain
fell. Miss Mary Anderson played Juliet in N.Y.
when she returned from London recently, and in
the 4th act she kissed Borneo., As she approached
the event, the bald-headed man in the orchestra
who habitually dawdles with the bass-violin rose
from his seat and looked over the footlights.
Everybody knew this kiss was coming, and when
the actress leaned forward frigidly, and resolutely
placed her face in the immediate proximity of
Borneo s, the house was all attention. She leaned
back again. The deed had been done. The bald-
headed man in the orchestra sank back in his
chair, shivered a bit, and turned up his collar.
The lights flickered. An usher sneezed, and, tip-
toeing softly to the door, he put his hand across
the crack to see if he could And out where the
chilling draught came from. Then a howling
swell rose from his seat, blew upon his fingers, put
on a fur overcoat, went out wishing audibly that he
was dead. Another N.Y. paper is dissatisfied with
the manner of kissing adopted by Mary Anderson,
and suggests the following change“ Mary should
learn to kiss, and kiss according to Hoyle. Kiss
so that after the deal she would leave a royal flush
on the cheek of the kissed. If Mary would pay a
little more attention to kissing she could cultivate
an article that would cause the footlights to pale
with envy and make the stage-carpenter pound
his ear on his tool-chest with admiration. Bhe is
built right to kiss with stunning effect. Her lips
are full and red; her neck is swan-like; she could
approach a man from the rear, lean over his
shoulder, look down through his eyes into his
boots, glue her lips to his, draw in his breath, com-
press her lips for an instant, then suddenly part
them—biff I bang 1 and everybody would shut their
eyes and yell for somebody to turn the hose on
them. Until Mary goes into training to improve
the condition of her kiss there will be something
lacking in her acting that cannot be entirely
buried beneath the multitude of her charming
accomplishments.”
BEALE & COMPANY
City Show Rooms,
886 and 612 GEORGE STREET,
13 CENTRAL MARKETS,
161 OXFORD STREET
AGENTS and TRAVELLERS in EVERY
COUNTRY TOWN.
Address Letters of Inquiry—
-371a Pltt-stroet, Sydney.
THE LATEST TRIUMPH of SEWING MACHINE
MECHANICS,
The “BEALE",
HIGH-ARM
PATENT SEWING MACHINES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
Wcrtholm Sewing Machine.
BEALE.
The “Hapsburg” Pianos.
SOLE IMPORTERS,
BEALE AND COMPANY.
THE "HAYDN” ORGANS
AND
HARMONIUMS.
Sole Importers
BEALE AND COMPANY.
FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
and
FULL INFORMATION,
Address
ANY LOCAL AGENT OR TRAVELLER;
or,
BEALE & COMPANY
Sydney.


A L.
rwt H V A T B I ROT
' I Under tne direction of
Messrs. Williamson, G tiui«R and
Mr. d. Lazar. Treasurer, Gen. I- Goodman.
Stage Manager Mr. H. H. Vincent.
THIRTEENTH WEEK
'of iho
ROYAL DR ASIATIC COMPANY,
Tin moat powerful and popular Cor pi Dramatique
ever organised in Australia.
ANOTHER BRILLIANT SUCCESS.
This and Everv Evening until further notice,
at 8 precisely,
will be repeated Steele Mackaye s
BEAUTIFUL DOMESTIC DRAMA,
HAZitL KIRKE.
HAZEL K'RKB.
Admiaaion: Dreaa Circle.ss ; Stalls, 35.; and dur-
ing the dramatic season, Upper Cl ™ le * la ;,. , 8
Tickets for all ptrts of the house
Hotel. Box plan open at the Theatre daily from
10 tin 5. No Free List.
Royal standard theatre
CASTLEREAGH STREET.
r Between Liverpool and
the Management of Mr. D jmpler.
Buai n ea L Manager H T-
of the „ .... .
1 te Charles Dickens’ David Copperft9.d, entitled
OUREM'LY.
TSAN’L PEGGOTTY .. ••• Mr. DAMPIER,
supported by the full strength cf the most
popul. r combination of ai lists.
SATURD VY. JUNE 5,
“HIS NiiUdit 1.1 Fei.
Popular Pi ices—Dress CP e'e 3t,, Stab* 33,Pit. 18.
Box Plau open at Nicholson's Music Warehouse.
Gaiety theatre.
Aaee Mr. Joha Solomon
Business Manso-er .. Mr. B. N. Jones.
FUN FUN ,
FUN cniha BRISTOL,
Universal Verdict- BET IKK THAN EVER.
Something to drive away dull care, and make you
LOOK OUT for the GR«V' EVT SENSATION of
this ceniury, MO La. AjILV
IteyrtorMr.t.wtMM. -
T
HE
ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
George- street. Haymarkc„.
Propri tor -mr Mansce' ...
business and fattge Manager
Mr. Frank Bmith.
Mr E. Shipp.
The Horae of Minstrelsy and Mirth.
The Popular and Fashionable Resort.
TO-NIGHT, and every evening during the week,
THE ALHAMBRA VARIETY and SPECIALTY
UNION in their refined entertainment.
MINSTELSY, OLIO, and FARCE.
Popular Prices; Orchestra ohairs. 2s; stalls,ls;
balcony, Is.
Every Sunday Night. Grand Concert Spiritual,
at 7 30 o’clock.
0A D 1
rsee ...
M Y
OF MUSIC.
.. F. E. Hiscocks.
FX RAORDINARY ANNOUNCEMENT.
NEXT S ATURDAY, June 5,
The Keturn florae of tbe Favourites,
thk veritab e
HTSCOCK’S FEDERAL MINSTRELS
AND SPECIALITY UNION,
with mere New Fee s acd entirely New Business,
w jT U ii particulars in future Issues.
„ , X H T BI T T O N BJJILDING
|jj THS JAPANESE VILLAGE.
ANNOUNCEMENT EXTRAORDINARY.
Mr Wi'lird begs to announce to the general
mbl e that, in consequence of the Exhibition
fnilr. Dg being pre-engaged for an Industrial
rlhi rftte stay of the Japanese must necessarily
>e « b iaf one, and although in
TBE ZENITH OF SUCCESS,
Thousands visiting the Vil'age dally,
, p v, 9 determined upon miking the price of
admission
Ona Shilling,
i er le all to witness this Most Novel Extra-
oi nary Amalgamation of Theatrical and
Industrial Ircsngruities,
THE ARABIAN NIGHTS RE-DIVIVA.
h- irkets are for sale at W. H. Paling’s and Nichol-
n and Co.’s Music Warehouses, George-street.
Ij
Y NCH
Manager
FAMILY BELLRINGERS
(Organised 1867).
.. .. Harry Lynch.
SOUTHERN TOUR.
C mdvn— Thursday, June 3
tvmpbelltown— Friday. June 4
Liverpool— Saturday, June 5
Nowcv>tK Maitland, and Kempsey dietriots to
“ follow.
JAMES SMITH) Advance
H. E. BARNEB) Agents.
DO B B Y N S’ H A L li.
Junee Junction.
Built of Brick, Large and Commodious, well
Lighted, Complete Scenery, Centre of Town.
Write for particulars.
G. DOBBYNS,
Proprietor.
VICTORIA HALL, MELBOURNE-
Every Evening.
FRANK M. CLARK S
GREAT BENB ATIO N,
SILK STOCKINGS
and
SATIN CIRCLE.
The Greatest Success on Record.
Houses packed nightly from floor to ceiling-
Opening at ali times for first-class Variety snd
Speciality Artists.
H. FRIEDMAN, business Manager.
NOTICE is hereby given that a Special Meeting
of the Metropolitan Licensing Court will be
holden at the Central Police Office, Sydney, on
Tuesday, the 15th day of June next, for the pur-
pose of considering applications for Renewals o
Publican’s Licenses, and for the transaction of any
business that may be legally brought before the
said Court.
C. DELOHERY,
C.P.S.
Dated the 25th May, 1886.
THE REY. G. F. MACARTHUR.
A MEETING of the old Macquarie Fields and
the King School Boys, past and present, will
be held at the Chamber of Commerce, Exchange,
Svdnev ON WEDNESDAY, the 23rd JUNE NBXI,
at 3.30 o’clock, to arrange a demonstration to their
late Receptor, who, in that month, retires int
and expressions of opinion as to
the form the movement should take ff iL bß n rf 6 a
celved by any of the undersigned who rely on a
ready response to this notice.
E. P. RAMSAY. Museum, Sydney
J. ARTHUR DOWLING, Hunter-
street. Sydney
RICHARD E. KEMP, M.A., St.
Peters. Richmond . r
E J. JENKINS, Medical Superin- I
tendent Prince Alfred Hospi- I
tal, Sydney
JAS. A. BRODIE, Colonial Secre-
tary’s Office, Sydney. J
Joint
Hen.
Secretaries
and
Treasurers.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, June 1,1866.
TENDERS for PUBLIC W ORKS d SUP-
PLIES.— TENDERS are for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti
eulanfsee Government Gazette, a file of whfch
Is kept at every Post Office In the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when thetendexl
SiSSA Sl££XkSJß> BBSS
duties of the Board have terminated.
» n tender will be taken into consideration un-
leS thfteSnTof the notice are strictly complied
The Government does not bind itself to
.. i i. __
WILLIAM FLEMING,"
22 & 24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
FLEMNB’S
RELIABLE
first grade,
STYLE,
QUALITY,
and
finish.
USED by ALL the
Leading Citizens.
NOT HOW CHEAP,
BUT ROW GOOD I
gs
dfg
FLEMING’S
WAGGONS
and
Harness,
L Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
■with Side Springs.
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
WACGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Call andlusieet.
McLEAN BROS. RIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
So
o
s
IRONMONCERS
12
5
X
o
V
o
REG?
b
SPECIALITIES:
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint ,
A lb j Carbon Ught.
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
Gas Cooking: Stoves :-Leonis l ietcker s, Jeans and Walker’s.
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &C., &C.
ROWING
CLUB.
LE B E
SEVENTH ANNUAL BALL,
SYDNEY TOWN HALL,
FRIDAY, 4th JUNE, 1886.
evening dress.
Tickets may be had from the Committee.
H. R. COX, Hon. Sec , 103 Pitt-street.
F. C. WILLIAMS, Hon. Treaa., Cash Branch, G.P.O-
N
ORTH SHORE ROWING CLUB
FIFTH ANNUAL BALL.
LORD
Under the patronage of
CARRINGTON and the MAYOR OF
SYDNEY.
Will be held in
PROFESSOR WEST’S ROOMS,
Leigh House, Castlereagk-street,
on
FRIDAY EVENING, 11th JUNE, 1886.
Tickets: Ladies’, 123 61.: Gentlemen’s, 215.;
Double, 303.
May be had from members of the Club, aDy of the
principal shops, or from
H. H. ROBEY. Hon. Sec..
No. 11 Bridge street.
UINDER the patronage op his excel-
lency LORD CARRINGTON.
SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
JUST ARRIVED, ex
the
‘Massillia,” 12 Cases of
Finest Egyptian Cigarettes,
specially selected by Mr. Noake on his tour to
Europe, and being a thorough connoisseur in
Cigarettes, he recommences them to his patrons as
being of the finest quality made.
Also, a large shipment of the world-renowned
“ Spillar’s,”
whose reputation is universally known by the
smokers of the first quality of cigarettes.
TO BE HAD ONLY AT
J. NOAKL’B ESTABLISHMENTS,
320 and 446 Geome-st ,
AND
Pail Mall, Hunteb-stbeet.
FOLiTB SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &c. For
terms, &e., apply to
H. M. CANSDELL,
Manager and Instructor.
all the most
Silvern and Elegant
DESIGNS.
American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express,
Waggons.
SHIV IN.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.'
SPECIALLY IMPORTED FOB CITY OR COUNTRY USB.
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY,
AT
LOWEST PRICES.
umzuift to.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
I!
EVERY VEHICLE GUARANTEED


SUNDRY SHOWS.
TaiATß*ROYAL—"HazeLKirke ” P> °
Gaiety Theatre—*' Fun on the Bristol ...
Alhambra— Minstrelsy, Olio, and Farce... ..
Royal Standard Theatre-" Our Em’ly . »
Exhibition Building -Japanese Village .. ~
Academy of Music.- Federal Minstrels »
Owing to the indisposition of Miss Maggie
Knight. " Hazel Kirke,” did not go on the boards
of the Sydney Theatre Royal till Monday night.
The drama is a domestic one, and although it
comes to us from America, the scene and inci-
dents are of Lancashire, England. Mr. Steele
Mackaye, the author, mixes his pathos and humour
very evenly. His plot is not so ingenious as it is
daring. He makes Dunstan Kirke, a miller, pro-
mise to give his daughter Hazel in marriage to
Squire Rodney. He also makes Lady Travers dis-
pose of her son Arthur to an heiress In a similar
way. Then he brings Arthur and Hazel together.
That, it must be admitted, is a solid, substantial,
and from a playright’s point of view, a business-
like beginning. The young couple fly, and, as
they think, enter the bond* of matrimony. The
old question of Scotch marriages is here worked
up, and they afterwards learn that an Irish valet
had had them married " on the English side of the
Scotch border,” and that consequently all was
wrong. Sorrows fall thickly here. In the end,
however, it is discovered that it was on the Scotch
side of the Scotch border the rite was solemnised,
and peace returns to the miller’s home.
• * *
The play is of the lachrymose order, with
the usual light comedy oouple to brush away the
tears. Does it really happen in actual life that
clouds of domestic affliction are thus rifted with
sunny funnyisms ? When it is announced in the
family oircle that the old man’s heart is broken,
does a slim youth standing by rub his side pockets
and sigh that he too is broken? What is done
with him when he behaves so ? There is a good
deal of this sort of glitter on the sorrow of Hszel
Kirke. Some of it makes the possessors of flue
sensibilities laugh with one eye while they weep
with the other. Mr. Titheradge as Pittacus Green,
or Pea Green as he comes to be called, dealt out
feather-headed wit with an appearance of being
really interested in it. His citations from the
Bard of Avon were numerous, his own doggerel
abundant, and his puns plentiful. He spoke so
rapidly that all he said was not understood, but
the inaudible passages were made amends for by
the distinctness with which he observed that going
upon his knees was not a kneesy matter.
» * *
Miss Knight’s Hazel Kirke was carefully
and sympathetically acted. Three situations in
the performance required thoughtful work to
keep them from looking bald. Hazel s sort of
trouble always does run that risk. If the render-
ing of it does not hit the audience in the right
place, it misses altogether. Miss Knight laboured
to hold her line straight, and on a couple of occa-
sions was rewarded with well-merited applause.
Miss Watt-Tanner, as Lady Travers, was oppres-
sively realistic. Her face was too emaciated, too
deathlike, for so young a voice. Yet she worked
out an ideal with consistency.
* • •
The chief value of the drama, however, in
the eyes of many was that it gave Mr. Anson an
■opportunity to lay himself out in his best style.
Dunstan Kirke. the miller, was meant to be a
'Strong and self-willed man, with a severe con-
science and a tender heart. The words of the
drama do not outline the character with sufficient
■clearness. A sense of unreasonableness pervades
at. The miller’s strict adherence to the text of his
(solemnly-given promise, instead of shining out as
a triumph of duty over affection, is made fre-
Satly to look like mere pig-headedness. But
is Mr. Maokaye’s fault. Again, the strong
lines are too much deepened. The dramatist was
on to good ground ■wht n h© sniot© th© mill©r with
blindness and filled his memory with visions of
the old mill and the lost daughter, but he forces
the torture to drag. One becomes aware that he
has settled himself to bore for water. Apart from
these faults in the text, the character is a fine
one. Its conception justified the author in writing
a play around it. Mr. Anson could not help re-
flecting its weaknesses, but the way in which he
rose to the interpretation of its powerful elements
gave proof of splendid capacity and skill.
• * *
We do not anticipate that “ Hazel Kirke ”
will run a long time, and we therefore at once
point to Miss Emma Chambers’ Dolly Dutton as a
verv sprightly though somewhat incongruous
piece of work. The little lady will do harna to
someone yet. She marks her characters. Her
movements are staccato. Her vivacity is gusty.
Still she is very pleasing to the audience. Such a
Dolly can hardly be conceived as a member or a
miller’s family in a rural part of Lancashire. She
Is supposed to be the niece of the old oouple and
to share in the sorrow about Hazel. But, as repre-
sented by Miss Chambers, the picture is out of
drawing with country life. This feeling of incon-
gruity. however, she assaults and beats out oi
one’s head with her keen, bold, ready tongue, her
fighting hands, and her stamping feet. The audi-
ence succumbs as P. Green does.
* * * *
If Offenbach intended his Grand Duchess
for a broad burlesque, then the performance at the
Ivdney Opera House on Saturday night was a de-
cided success,*and Miss Grade Plaisted is a model
Grand Duchess of Gerolstein; but if he intended
It to be something a little higher, then thus praise
must be taken with a ton or t wo of salt. We have
mt lately been on intimate terms with any grand
l -messes, but we do not think any of those whom
dm - n ew in our paling youth, when we were a
we k. -ne page (and wore a sword, and sawdust
handsoi. *er our silk stockings—like Government
calves urn. «econgs ” on a ball night), used tc
House “aiu aß d use flat A’s in just the way
romp around weare quite sure that none of them
Grade does, and \tros round our swanlike neck
put their snowy . tickled us. But then Gracie
against our will am \& t ” where duchesses are as
comes from “ Amurn. ’d lace od a Sydney “ Lan-
plentiful as—well, as go. ought to know. Gracie
cah’s” uniform, and she to use her own words,
is a clever little actress, and, xcity and piquancy,
“ reel cute ” and full of viv. m overpoweringly
but she is not, well—ahem—», f®ng time since
brilliant musical genius. It is a >hj—he seemed
Harding has been in such grand fo. 'ouraged him
in good spirits—the packed house em suited
no doubt, and both the part and the n.
him from start to finish.
* * * K
Miss Lambert made a handsome peas e
girl, but we don’t know if peasant girls in i v
Grand Duchy of Gerolstein are usually so econo
mical with their clothing as their present repre-
sentative. But, be that as it may, we haven t
lately met any peasant girls who could sing that
"regulation” duet as she did. It would be hard
to find a more dignified, dapper, drivelling Prince
Paul than Mr. South. It is a pity he was not born
one of the Battenberg family, as he could then
have had a much better chance of being accept-
able to “ Her Highness.”
v * *
We cannot say we admire the shape of the
helmets worn by the army of Gerolstein.
Fritz must have been a very clover general to win
the battle while his soldiers were handicapped by
having to keep one hand employed all the time
holding on their hats—but perhaps they proved
useful to carry the commissariat- Mdlles. Iya ana
'Olga each got a well-deserved enoore for the
'pretty way they sang their love-letters—but, for
all that, if either of them had been our girl giving
away one of our love-lettera like that, we would
have considered it as a direct entreaty for a■ jaliey
of profanity and antiquated eggs and would have
responded liberally.
* * *■ *
By special invitation* on Saturday evening
last, we went to see »ja. Cumberland give his
“ farewell seance ” in (the New Masonic > Hau,
Sydney. Before passinr to his seance let s
have a look at Btuart. We find him middle
heighted, stout, rather Oscar Wildish about the
hair and shirt-front, be-diamonded about the
breast and fingers, wearing an evening dress suit
that fits like a Sydney Lancer’s uniform. The
girls say he’s a “ pretty ” man, and they ought to
knoAv. What he puts on besides his clothes is as
much “side” as a Sydney alderman. He’s very
languid at times, and one fancies he’s bound to
faint. But he doesn’t. Just as he’s going off he
throws himself into a chair and flils up with Botany
water, which revives him. His delivery of the
English language is not quite a success. There
are some words that would bother any man. Tney
floor Stuart. He has a tussle with them, it’s true,
and won’t loose his hold in a hurry. But the
words win every time. His “farewell” address
cannot be said to have been brilliant. Placing one
foot on a chair and wiping the dew-drops off his
face, he told us, in a voice broken with emotion,
that we must part. He seemed to feel the inevit-
able more than we did, for he said we were the
best audience he’d met, since h© had the Czar,
German William, G.0.M,, the President U.8.A..
and our old friend Wales, before him. He said we
had j ust as much intelligence as any of them—
especially Wales. Then we all applauded and felt
deeply moved at Stuart’s condescension.
* * *
The first act began by Cumberland asking
for well-known men to “ step up.” He asked for
mein capable of forming a rational idea. This at
once narrowed down the choice. At length same
mighty possessors of intellect stormed the plat-
form. They were Dr. Mackellar, M.L C., Tom
Slattery, Drs. Maclaurin and Marshall, Messrs.
Moore, Geddes, Harnett, and Goodehap.
* * *
The first “experiment” was tried with
Sergeant Harnett, who was asked to think of
something. It failed dismally. He could think of
nothing but Mudgee Taylor; as the choice was
restricted to objects in the room he was asked to
try again. At length he brought his great mind to
bear on Bruce Lowe’s overcoat. The idea was
original. Then Stuart came into the fun. He
was blindfolded in what seemed to be a charm-
ingly convenient manner, and, taking Harnett’s
hand, laid it on his head. It covered it. This was
eneugh. He rushed with the “ medium ” off the
platform, ahd made straight for Lowe. In a mo-
ment he had the coat. He dragged it away I And
then the applause I It was Wellington at Waterloo.
• a ■
Next Messrs. Goodehap, Moore, and Tom
Slattery go out with a pin. They prick each other
in the street. They re-enter, and behold Stuart
finds they have pricked each other on the hand
and ear I
* a *
Then follow other “ experiments” too tedi-
ous to mention, and then the reading of the
number on a bank-note comes off. This is as flat
a “ trick ”as we ever saw. Mr. Goodehap is found
to posstss a note. He shows it and a host of
friends rise to share it. But, no 1 Mr. Goodehap
and others read the numbers. Then they blind-
fold Stuart again and the game begins. Be has
previously divided the blackboard into six so-
called squares. He hit a square every time with
as much precision as if he could see under the
bandage. He then takes Goodchap’s hand and a
piece of chalk and holds them up to the board.
Then the audience held their breath. The great
thought - reader is at Lwork. And behold he
makes a figure like a very bad 6, then follow 55344.
The applause is immense, but the numbers are
wrong. At it again—lo9344-how about that ?
He’s right I And tnen the hero tells us what
agony it has been to him. How the first three
figures wouldn’t come. Just a similar thing hap-
pened when he did this “ experiment ” with Holkar
Ram Jam Nuggar at Bud-pore-doon. He com-
pared the Commissioner for Railways to the
above. The above will be glad when he hears
this.
* * *
the best thing of the night was the
"fall” between Messrs. Harnett and Moore. It
had not been mentioned in the programme, and
was therefore a relief from the dullness of the
“ play.” Harnett had to murder someone, so he
chose Moore out of the audience. Moore wasn’t
on. Harnett clutched him in his grasp. But
Moore came “the refractory member over him,”
and threw him among the chairs. “By soul of St.
Patrick,” cried the sergeant, and for the Moore
he went. They soon had a clear place all to them-
selves. The sergeant’s coat became a wreck, so
did Moore’s "gaugeous” shirt front; blood was
on the hand of Harnett—passion on the face of
Moore. It was altogether the best thing in the
show. Next time, perhaps, Mr. Moore will enter
into the spirit of the fun and not make a scene
that was little short of disgraceful. Let us close
at this. The show is dreary but very clever.
“ Farewell ” seances are to follow.
** # *
“ Madame Angot ” held the boards of the
Bydney Opera House till Saturday night, when it
gave place to the “ Grand Duchess.” On Thurs-
day there was a change of caste, the part of Mdlle.
Lange being taken by Mrs. Atkinson, who deserves
chunks of congratulation upon her debut in this
line of her profession. Her graceful acting was
something of .a surprise, for we are accustomed
to seeing stage novices either fly their arms about
like the floats of a ferry boat or else work as if
their knee-joints were affected with all the ail-
ments that St. Jacob’s Oil is warranted to cure.
Mrs. Atkinson’s voice is rich and musical, but she
will require some more study before it will attain
that crisp precision so essential in comic opera.
The duet in the drawing-room with Clairette was
well done on both sides. In the quarrel scene her
quiet dignity and well-bred sarcasm contrasted
strongly witn Miss Piaisted’s knock-out-in-three-
rounds business, and this is just the contrast evi-
dently intended by the author.
** * *
The “ Widow O’Brien” is still rampant at
the Sydney Gaiety. Her popularity is evergreen,
and when she twirls her little bicycle-propellers
in the reel she always strolls slap into the affec-
tions of the crowd. As this sort of show doesn’t
necessitate much strain on the cerebral tissue, it
ought to continue to enthuse the population.
AEola, the live cannon ball, will be fired for the
first on next Saturday night.
*m m *
The Sydney Alhambra has now been two
years under the management of Frank Smith, and
the public still continue to troop round there in
undiminished numbers. There are a lot of things
which tend to make the Alhambra popular. There
is the talent, the beauty, and the shapely locomo-
tives of the feminine portion, the classical features
of the masculines, and the variety of the business
I»,hioh is presented for the regalement of the
weblic. And then there is, too, the extreme origi-
Inalvty of the nigger minstrel jokes. We feel sure
iiiot OU9 of them is more than 3000 years 01.
<lsi,Bid permission of the author, Mr.
hiahylus, the well-known Dublin play-wright,
A!. students of the Sydney University are to pro-
the jtnat .versatile writer’s society play of
“°S. -aa-mma.” # # .
wfey districts will breathe freely
lhe c, u'®rby then the Lynch family marauders
next week, to Sydney. Splendid houses
will have i a t Moss Vale and MittagoDg in
met the fan eftr phrase! “inclemency ot the
spite of the h a 8 they have spoiled the Egyptians
weather,’ and four times within 12 months
of the latter p T o iaim to be about the boss-
they may iairh § un ny South.
plunderers of the ## #
_. . xr- ’imatic company in Went-
The amateur ar. ve the “ Ticket-of-Leave
worth prepared to t a go w jth a view of help-
Man” there some nign , fche procee( j B> The Rev.
ing local charities witn tJn g Sation on Sunday that
Father Long told hit! co, sustainment, and so as
they ought to attend t xjoned a church service
to leave them free he
that fell about the t e, ns gather Long a per-
nisedthis hindness by a. c , thet , hand, the Rev.
petual deadhead, church, de-
fames Barring, Qf tne
nounced the entertainment and urged his congre-
gation to stay away, and thus mark their disap-
proval of the godless stage. The amateurs met
this phase of the subject with as frank readiness
as the other. They, having as proceeds of previous
entertainments contributed £3O to the funds of the
Wesleyan church, wrote requesting its return.
They point out that if the stage be bad the money
raised on it should not be taken into the church.
They have not heard from Mr. BowriDg yet. but
unless we are much mistaken they will find their
“ point ” will not hold a thimbleful of water' to the
ecclesiastical mind.
• * * »
The whole of the wardrobe belonging to
the William Holloway Dramatic Co. was on board
of the ill-fated s.s. Ly-ee-Moon, and it was
Kismet itself that prevented the members them-
selves from sailing in her en route to Brisbane.
One young man named M'Gregor, who had just
relinquished a good position in Melbourne for go
upon the stage, embarked in that steamer to join
the company, and has met with an untimely death.
The brothers Holloway have sustained a severe
loss, for their wardrobes were very valuable.
• * * *
Rather thin and decidedly chilly houses
have resulted from the change of bill at Me -
bourne Royal. The “ Sorcerer ” and “ Trial by
Jury” are rendered in disappointing style. Dresses
and scenery are bright, the ehorus is good, and
the orchestra excellent, but the performances lack
spirit. Few of the principals fit into their parts,
and some of them are handicapped above their
abilities. This is sad, but true. The “ Sorcerer,”
as originally played by a specially selected com-
pany, created a f urore. The humour of the main
idea is undeniable. An ardent bridegroom,
moved by the best of intentions towards
the young men and maidens of his native
village, enters into negotiations with an old-estab-
lished firm of magicians (in St. Mary Ax) with a
view to promoting matrimony all round. The
head of the sorcery firm provides his misguided
client with a love philtre which is handed round
to the company in mugs, Sunday-school fashion.
They drink, and all want to get married within 13
hours. But, unfortunately, their affections get
mixed up badly. The haughty baronet developes
red-hot love for a pew-opener The blushing
bride, after a couple of nips of the all-powerful
philtre, throws herself upon the bosom of the first
man she meets. Things are set right in the
end by the kind self-sacriflee of the sorcerer.
He descends to those regions where the
fire burneth just as the curtain falls. Mr. Frank
Thornton is a little too mincing for a matter-of-
fact magician in a wholesale way of business.
His incantation antics with a metal teapot are
poor substitutes for the never-to-be-forgotten run
round of George Grossmith in the same scene.
Still Mr. Thornton scores. Never did Miss Nellie
Stewart look nicer than as the young bride. So
charmingly eccentric she is, too. At midnight of
the most eventful 34 hours of her life she roams
about the garden in a low-necked dress. Mr.
Woodfield is good as the bridegroom, and Mies
Alice Barnett has a fair part. There is something
wanting about Mr. Howard Vernon’s amorous
old baronet. The music was too much for him.
The Vicar of Mr. Denbigh Newton (first appearance
in opera), and the pew-opener of Miss Ida Osborne
are but pale ghosts of what they might be. Miss
O. misses the author’s idea altogether. The pew-
opener’s danghter looks sweeter than she siDgs.
One way and another what might have proved a
big success has turned out something so like a
failure that a change of programme is announced.
‘■Patience ” is about to make her re-appearance.
“ Only Dust,” the new comedy at Mel-
bourne Bijou, will hardly do much for the ex-
chequer. The plot is un-English and spun out.
Commonplace talk is supplied where bustling
action is needed. Atrocious sentiments on the
labour question are put into the mouth of one of
the chief characters. As the comedy is adapted
by Mr. Wybert Reeve from a translation by Signor
Majaroni, it is to be presumed that Count Fosco is
a Tory of the fine old crusted school, But, to tell
the truth, the doctrines preached in this comedy
gain few converts, judging from the aspect of the
auditorium. A very strong company does the
very best it can for ‘‘Only Dust,” but that is not
much. The comedy is not long for this world- We
fear its funeral will tase place at no distant date.
Earth to earth, ashes to ashes—dust to dust. Yes.
***
“ Wedded but not Wived ” is the name of
a play that has made a bit of a success in London.
’Tis a title which might well be toned down into
“ Courted but not Cuddled.”
Dr. York, the professional infldol, and
Long, evangelist man, have struck oil in Brisbane.
York lectures every Sunday night to crowded
audiences of unbelievers—on hell; and Long does
likewise before audiences who believe that a little
brimstone and sulphur is the proper thing—for
these infidels. As there is a possibility of their
respective '.shows palling on the public taste, they
have arranged a sort of platform duel—a debate
they call it—on the fertile subject of Christianity.
Long is a grey-headed old veteran, with the pro-
per pulpit twang, and made himself popular in
Glasgow by exhibiting a bogus priest—" Father
Widdop”—and getting him to expose the enormi-
ties of the Church of Rome; while York is a gab-
gifted American. The unco Quid and “the devil’s
children ” will probably be well represented, and
the two champions will reap a corresponding
harvest of filthy lucre.
* * *
A lot of scandal talked about Henry
Irving in his domestic relation is knocked on the
head by the fact that his two sons played in an
amateur performance of “ Uncle’s Will,” in which
Mrs. Irving also took part. Irving is very fond
of his boys, who have a good deal of the
picturesque appearance and mannerisms of their
fortunate father.
# # # #
He was the world-renowned Wizard of
the North, South, East, and West, and his pro-
fessional name was Professor Boko, maiden name
Bili Sharp. Business beiDg a trifle slack with his
legitimate trade (he was something in the hot
saveloy and korfee line), the professor secured the
services of a friend named Peter Chivy to act as
“ sprightly ” and assistant in general to him during
a starring conjuring tour through the country.
Peter was a most estimable man in every way
when sober, but the oldest pal he had never re-
membered having seen him once in that desirable
state. Having struck their first town, a pro-
gramme was readied up, and amongst other mar-
vellous feats to be performed was the antediluvian
trick of passing the half-crown. A properly-
marked coin having been secreted in Mr. Chivy 8
left-hand waistcoat pocket, that gentleman glode
into the hall and mixed with t tbe crowd of gaping
bushies. After the customary card tricks and
other biz had been successfully negotiated,
a half-crown was borrowed from a front-
seat “gent,” carefully marked, wrapped in
paper, and finally, apparently, rammed into and
shot out of a little cannon. “ Now,” said the pro-
fessor, “this is one of the very best experiments
in my ‘ reppeetwar.’ You will find the coin in the
left hand waistcoat pocket of that distinguished
looking gentleman sitting on the end of the fourth
seat from the door.” Hereupon Mr. Chivy rose,
fell up against three or four persons standing
round, steadied himself against a post, and then
smiiing an amiable drunken smile, he said, Shorl
li lai’s an’ gen’lemen. Shaf-crown isn’t there but
er shange is.” Then he hauled out a shilling, three
penn'orth of coppers and a sixpence, and explained
—“ I was jus’ short of a trifle, so I gor couple long
beers wisher friend out o’ Pr’feshr s half-bull.
Tricksh all ri’. Money’s ’counted for, now.
Shplenni’ trick.” That was the first and last night
of Professor Boko’s starring season.
* * * *
A representative of the Rev. Robert Spald-
ing, in an English “ Private Secretary ” Company,
has been the recipient of an amusing tribute. At
the end of one of the acts, there was gravely
i handed over the footlights a bouquet composed
1 entirely of Bath buns, arranged symmetrically on
wires, and graduating In size as they reached th 3
apex. From out the centre of the queer nosegay
appeared a soda-water bottle filled with milk, a
beverage to which the Rev. Robert is, as the
world knows, particularly partial,
** * *
ML-s Lillian Russell and her husband, Mr.
Edward Solomon, are reported as having entered
upon a big matrimonial row. She accuses him of
pawning everything down to the flat-irons, and of
restricting her to 10 dresses, while he himself
revels in 37 suits, He is reported as saying that
Lillian is “an impetuous person," and has been
carried off her head by an increase to her salary.
It is further stated that the Divorce Court will act
as laundry of the trouble. How sad I It seems
but yesterday that we threw our little bouquet at
Lillian’s feet, as we chronicled her wedding.
*« * *
The latest about Henry Braoy is that he
took a benefit at London Gaiety, on 28th April —
Miss Maud Montressor writes to tbe P. M. Gazett b
desiring that the Prince of Wales should visit tbe
Music Halls of London so as to popularise them.
Are you sarcastic, Miss Maud? Does your request
urge a new departure ? We see, though, that it
does, for Maud wishes him to take Mrs. Wales
Tom Buckley’s Comedy company gets notices
worth all the trials of a lifetime from the Western
(N.B. W.) papers. “ Fun in Ireland ”is the title of
tbe performance. Sunny Corner is to be next
visited A Bydney comedian somehow got inside
a church last Sunday. He says the leading man
did a lot too much gagging, and that the show is
not likely to take unless they put some comio busi-
ness and step-dancing into the performance—
There is trouble in Hobart, for the local News
and Mercury have each succeeded in proving
that its hated rival has criticised the delivery of a
song which was never given. The popular simile
among the perfesh now will be “as strong as tbe
imagination of a Hobart dramatic critic. I’— 1 ’ — Miss
Maggie Knight was very ill and unable to appear
in "The Magistrate” upon the final nights of its
performance in Sydney. Her part was under-
taken by Miss Marie Brooke, at very short notice
and that young lady ably sustained it.—
Thus nights may come, a Knight may go,
But the Brook(e) “ goes on ” for ever.
Adelaide Bowring (Mrs. J. B. Steele) is now
playing in London with Mrs. Lingard, and is a
great success Messrs. Edward Farley. Yemen
Reid, and Wm. Walshe have arrived fromCbma
after a two years’ season in the East, whither to ev
originally went with the Emilie Melville Ooera
Co. They will shortly be on the war-path
Willie Warner rode in a horse-race in Brisbane
lately. He came in seventh and would have oeen
eighth, but only seven started.
The Abbe Liszt, who was lionised to an
outrageous extent during his recent stay in Lon-
don, was a good stock subject for the newspapers.
Various rumours as to his mode of life having got
into circulation, one journal contradicting all
current reports, describes his habits in this style:—
“Liszt never goes to bed. Tor upwards of half a
century he has abjured sleep. He returns to
Westwood from ;the club at about 2 in the
morning. During the night he carefully reads and
replies to the numerous requests he receives for
his autograph. At 5 a.m. he rises and takes .n the
milk. He then rouses the senior house mail, and
arranges (a deux mains) and sets light to the
kitchen Are. At 6 a.m. he takes a walk in the
grounds, and then returns to awaken Mr. Walter
Bache. Mr. Bache immediately rises, and, nuddling
together what clothes he can find, k-:cps watch
over the early morning hens in the f o wl-house.
Liszt, it seems, insists upon an egg freih from the
bird, and to this the great pianist attributes his
perpetual youth. While his pupil is awaiting the
egg, Liszt prepares Mr. Walter Bache’s bath.
These preliminaries over, Liszt sits down at his
desk, and writes those “ glorious, sublime, inex-
pressible, and incomprehensible compositions’—
for further particulars of which see daily papers.”
©Now that the Indian and Colonial Exhibi-
tion is in full swing, antiquarians have begun to
grub round among the dry bones of the past on the
subject of industrial shows in general, and are try-
ing to find out who first started the idea. Several
learned societies, too, are exercising their wisdom-
teeth upon the question, so that a solution should
be arrived at shortly. The general idea has been
that the first display of the kind was held in Paris
in 1798, as a recreation for the sovereign people
in the intervals when the guillotine was under
repair: and the second by Napoleon in 1802. We
are now informed, however, that the idea is of
much more remote origin, the first exhibition
having been got up by Ahasuerus, or Artaxerxes,
King of Persia, in some remote age, before even
the Evening News was started, and when
antiquity was just about to begin. The fact
is stated upon the authority of the book
of Esther, which asserts that he “showed the
riches of his glorious kingdom and the honour of
his excellent majesty many days, even a hundred
and four score days.” On hunting up the history
of this remarkable prince, we learn, with extreme
gratification, that his real name was Ardeshir
Dirazdust, and that he was the son of Isfundear,
who, in his turn, had been spanked in his youth by
a father named Darab Gusbtap. Ardeshir Diraz-
dust has not been mentioned in any recent tele-
grams from Persia, and, in fact, he has been missing
for some time. A general impression prevails,
therefore, that he has gone up aloft, and now
wanders, dressed in a halo and a pair of light wings,
around the jasper sea. Besides inventing exhibi-
tions this monarch is credited by some writers with
having discovered a new and agreeable mode of exe-
cution, the victim being placed in a sort of open box
in a sunny spot,and smeared over with honey. When
this was done, ants, bees, wasps, and mosquitoes
would come round on business, and in the course
of a week or so they would generally succeed in
vindicating the majesty of the law. Another
brand new.tradition, however, declares that exhi-
bitions were invented long before this versatile
monarch was heard of, and even before the tjme
of Solomon. That much-married prince, alter
building his great doxology warehouse at Jeru-
salem, declared sadly that there was nothing
new under the sun; and this, according to
a latter-day Baptist lunatic, is good p oof
that he had exhausted the whole range
of invention, exhibitions among the rest. For
our own part we hardly think the evidence
sufficiently strong; and the assertion appears only
to corroborate our previous idea, that Solomon,
amid his large and well-assorted stock of Henrew
ignorance, did not possess enough practical infor-
mation to qualify him for inking the rollers in this
office. He did not even know the meaning of a
political crisis, and would not have recognised one
if it had been shown to him; he is expected of
having been married oftener than was good for
health; and his ideas on the subject of exhibitions
were probably about as valuable as those of Mrs.
Todgers on wooden legs. Even in his days “they
didn’t know everything down in Judee,” and they
were as little acquainted with industrial shows as
Hamlet was with Schleswig-Holstein. The real
originator of the movement was Noah, who got,
drunk and made an exhibition of himself; and
then the attendance wus very small, the whole
gorgeous procession consisting of a dead-head
named Ham. Exhibitions, as we understand
them, however, are a recent invention, and they
rank along with whisky, small-pox, and the Irish
difficulty, among the great triumphs of modern
civilisation.
The safest and surest of regulating tonics
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Notioe I— Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Hookings, 143 Pitt-street.
Joseph Cook says: “If 1 had a dog that
was addicted to smoking I would shoot hum.” No,
you wouldn’t, Joe. You would be runn;p«r around
trying to sell him to a museum; and, if you suc-
ceeded, you would send the proceeds ot la 3 sale to
Summerfield and Company, Merchant Tailors, 335
and 337 Pitt-street, Sydney, for a pair of »beir per-
fect fitting sixteen and sixpenny trousers t o order,
which are all the rage. That’s the kin 1 of a dog-
goned missionary you are, Joe. 5 "
Wolfe’s Schncvpps is a donor and pi eserya*
i tive of health.


PEPPER AMD SALT.
“Bundarra (N.8.W.) is at present without
a clergyman. A movement was made to procure
another in place of the former one who received
£3OO a year, raised by subscription. A gentleman
of the congregation moved that the office be let
by tender—he was sure plenty would do the work
for £SO per year, and the pickings to be got out of
it.”—Bundarra correspondent.
The loyal inhabitants of Australia may, in
future, read the telegrams about Gladstone’s wild
and wicked doings without trembling. They may
even, in future, smile at them and jeer openly at
the G.O.M. And why? Ah, there you are. It
took us to find out why. Let us tell you that there
is a sleepless eye on him—that ss from a watch-
tower, the astral intellect that edits the Tarren-
gower Times oversees him, and is ready to swoop
down on him, thunder-bearing and lightning-
pinioned, and blast him into everlasting oblivion
the moment he goes a step too far. Listen to this
haughty outburst—which we reprint from a leading
article that lately appeared in the journal we
allude to. “We are not in the least Republican;
we are as devoutedly (Tarrengower dialect)
loyal as any of our (same tongue) most
•gracious Majesty’s subjects, but we must put our
foot down calmly and thoroughly unmistakably
■upqu the Liberal theory of Eoklaud, which simply
means|deflllng thejproud name of John Bull.” How
is that, now? You may talk of your London
Times, but could it ever thunder In that fashion?
We just think not. It may interest our readers
to know that Tarrengower is a small played-out
mining township in Victoria. We were there once
and met this haughty editor. He shaved us.
We little dreamed then that he could wield the
Archimedean lever and put down his foot as he
can. But perhaps when he shaved us some of our
genius was left on the razor. This is indeed a
happy thought.
* * *
Disturbing items are constantly being
wired over from Adelaide. A rapid series of bank
robberies and embezz’ements has, however, steeled
our nerves, so we received the following without
flinching:— 11 At the military ball last night the
Governor danced the first set of quadrilles with
Mrs. Makio, their vis-a-vis being Brigadier-General
Owen and Miss Fiskin.” A verse, if we get six
months for it:—
Telegram from the Governor of Victoria
to His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales, May
24,1886:—“ The Government and colony of Victoria
sincerely thank your Royal Highness for your
great consideration in communicating the infor.
mation that Her Majesty had paid a long visit to
the Victorian court and had expressed herself
highly pleased with the exhibits and arrange-
ments.” Hallelujah! It appears to us that some
simple little form of prayer ought to accompany
messages like this. The office chaplain has kindly
prepared the following:—
Stephen George Samway Spicer hanged
himself in a shed at Bondi. No cause is assigned
for this rash deed. Deceased, however, was heard
to remark, “Oh dear! oh dear! I wish I had not
come to Australia.” With such a name as his we
wonder he ever lived at all.—
[The reader can find beauties innumerable in the
above poem by simply transposing the lines of
each verse. The reader can even transpose the
verses without in any way destroying the harmony
of the work, lhe author’s muse is singularly
flexible and adaptable.]
Scots wha hae and likewise his brother
Scot, Aleck Roy Macgregor, oh 1 This poetic burst
is on the following burst:—“At Nhill (Vic.) a
navvy known as Scottie Allan, his real name being
Alick Roy, undertook to drink six pints of beer in
saven minutes. He dranfc it in five and a-half
minutes, but soon after fell down insensible, never
recovered, and died the same night. At the in-
quest it transpired that deceased had drunk seven
pints in ten minutes, and three pints previously,
making ten pints of beer within one hour.”—
Thus “ R.T.D.’’ in the Goulburn Argus on
the subject of the Bungonia Look-out—the
Govett's Leap of those parts:—
“ Nobly Imposing bursts forth into view
All unexpected the chasm so dread,
With only one warning—the sky’s azure hue,
That stooping to earth tells of strange things
ahead.
Grandly majestic, before us, the scene
Displays all its beauties so varied and fine,
Ohl to describe them would need a wit keeD,
And, indeed, need a pen more poetic than mine."
Indeed 1 How many more times must we point
out to these Goulburn poets that the “ napping ”
hammer has a rhythm of its own; that out in the
country there are selections to be fenced; that no
earnest man need waste his time in New South
Wales? Once again:—
Frightfully lumpy your versa is, and too
Much contracted in some lines—in others too
spread.
Push this thing a bit further “R.T.D ,” and you
Will assuredly find there are strange things
ahead—
That’s if brickbats are strange—that’s unless you
have been
Writing verses before. Hearken this—we opine
Men, by hundreds, are whetting their yard-axes
keen
And exploring the Argus for more verse of
thine I
!3ays Reynolds’ Newspaper “ One
ousand three hundred and sixty-five pounds
is paid last week for a small drawing, “ The
Lies,” by Fred. Walker, at the Graham sale. The
3ture was hardly a foot square. Yet there are
Bn dying, and women doing that which makes
eir friends wish them dead, in this London city,
r want of mere dry bread. Unless the extreme
wealth and the extreme of poverty is reduced,
id a more rational method of life cultivated by
e rich, so that the poor shall be made a little less
)or, we shall see some very startling movements
England, and that before long.”
One recent Saturday, Mr. Richard Patter-
>n, a respectable cit zan of Wellington, N.Z., pur-
lased, at auction, a gin-case full of domestic
)wls. He soon had cause to regret his hen-
>rprise. After paying for the birds he put the
ise in a corner of the yard, where he thought it
ould be cafe till such time as he had finished his
ther business in town; and, of course, he forgot
II about it till he was at home in the suburbs late
t night sipping his gruel, previous to turning in.
.merciful man is merciful to his fowls, and so
[r. P. remembered with remorse that the poor
ipeds had had nothing to eat or drink since he
ought them, so he pulled on his boots, and, leav-
es his snoring wife, went away for his purchase,
[e found the case, and, hoisting it on his shoulder,
tarted to march home with it. The fowls,
wakened from their sleep, cackled wildly as ho
rent along, and an old rooster, which was of the
iarty, stretched his neck through the top of the
ase and crowed defiance to the midnight heavens
,nd the universe generally-game, though hungry,
o the last. The strange noise of cock-crowing
,'ong the streets at midnight woke up Detective
Campbell to a sense of duty. Hurriedly getting
nto his slippers he rushed to the street, soon over-
ruled Mr. Patterson, and asked him “ Where the
lickens he stole the chickens.” Mr. P. indignantly
lenied having stolen them, and said they were his
>wn property. The detective was rather non-
fiussed at this, and was about to take the man’s
vord for it and creep back po his Virtuous couch,
yhen the old rooster, who had been listening to
yhat was said, again stretched his lpng neck
larough the top of the case and loudly deciared on
lis solemn affidavit that it was an infamous
’ase of larceny, and he was there, in the bo?,
prepared to prove it. This bold declaration,
3f course, convinced the intelligent officer,
who straightway arrested Mr. Patterson, and
b jndled him neck and crop into a police-cell along
wfih the usual choice assortment of Saturday
night thieves, drunks, and rowdies. This was
rather rough on Mr. Patterson, but, as he was
only a poor working man, if he didn’t like it, he
could “ lump it.” Anyhow, there he had to re-
main all Saturday nig at, Sunday, and Sunday
nigiit, while his loving wife at home was working
herself into fever of aDxlety at his mysterious
disappearance. On Monday morning he was
brought before the “ Beak ” and remanded till
Tuesday, and on that day he appeared agaiD, and
was let oil with a caution, the only stain on his
character bsing the lateness of the hours he kept.
He tried to explain the matter to Mr. Wardell,
It.M., but that dignitary merely dropped the lid of
his eye over that organ for a brief second or two,
and then dryly remarked: That will do, Mr. Pat-
terson. We ” (there was a J.P. on the bench with
him)—“ we have been out late occasionally our-
selyes and know it cannot be avoided sometimes.
You are dispfyarged.”
OUR WARNING.
W e have, many a time, with our powerful pen
Written grave words of warning and counsel to
men,
We have shouted of dangers afar and anear
In a voice that oppressors have trembled to hear.
We have laboured to help every suffering man,
We have flouted eaoh hireling who, to the Sou-
dan,
Went to murder wild Arabs, and flaunt a red coat
Which, like Joseph’s, was dipped in the blood of a
goat.
When the Redmonds came here ours alone was the
voice
Which, in trumpet-tones, bade them go on and
rejoice;
While a hundred poor, dowering rags, at the time,
Sought to brand them as Phoenix Park agents of
crime.
We have busted up Clontarf, we’re happy to say,
And we’d cheerfully go through the same lot to-
day;
We have stuck like the Pompeiian guard to our
post
Nnappalled by the Seer of the Kiama Ghost.
We have waltzed in and floored with the greatest
of ease
Politicians unfaithful, untaught C.M.G.s;
We have made the way hard by keen Ridicule s
means
Fbt the land rings, Macquarie rings, sweeps, and
tontines.
We have scoffed at the Church of Christ’s mania
for coin
Neither Rome’s mighty Pope, nor the Pope of the
Boyne
Have we spared. We have shown the gilt “ pro-
perty” wings
On the shoulders of Orangemen, pontiffs, and
kings,
We have told all the world how the psera and the
drones
'Throw the thinkers and workers the cleanly-
picked bones;
We have told how the millions whose will ought
to rule
Rear the cross of the edicts of some royal fool.
For our down-trodden fellows we’ve done all the
good
In a number of ways that we possibly couid,
We have helped them as men against churches.
We burn
Now at last just to do the poor church a good turn.
We have warned our mad diggers to be in no haste
To the West, lest their bones rot on Kimberley’s
waste,
Rest the horror of dying of thirst in the bush
Be the whole of the fortune they’ll find at the
rush.
Now we fear that the paragraph quoted above
May excite all the workers for heavenly love—
Ah, what tortures and terrors may once more
begin
if a clerical rush to Bundarra sets in I
What we dread is that parsons, not counting the
cost
To themselves, will cry out, “ Precious souls may
be lost
In Bundarra, while here, hesitating, we stand,”
And with Bibles and tooth-brushes start overland.
What we fear is that bishops may hearken this
“ call ”
To Bundarra, and instantly throwing up all
For the Lord, sell their carriages right off and say
‘What a prospect of souls I This new diggings
will payl”
What we shudder to think is that young curates
may
Chuck the silk slippers, wrought them by fair
hands, away,
And in big boots stump after the heavenly “ push’
Who are hastening to " bottom ” on souls at the
rush.
What we specially dread is that vicars may sling
Their emoluments; trust to be ‘‘kept by the
king,”
Like the Harmy, and go to Bundarra in shoals,
Taking ‘‘fifty andpiokings” for sake of the souls!
So we beg our good pastors to keep on their hair
And attend our poor souls, not go scooting off
They might find when they got there and sank a
few holes
That the people were “duffers” and never had
souls.
They might never get there, they might die on the
way,
And remembering this we advise them to pray
Against every temptation to “ prospect ” for sin
Rest a clerical rush to Bundarra sets in I
As chronicle of beer that's small
The cake this par. is takin'—
What matters if he gave a ball
And danced with Mrs. Makin ?
Or if they had for vis-a-vis
The General and Miss Fiskiu--
A job, so far as we can see,
He ran but little risk in.
The itching of vice-regal nose
They’ll “ wire ” as tidings thrilling—
(To tell us every time it blows
Would hardly cost a shilling);
The state of a vice-regal corn
Might sell a “ last edition
Ah I would that we were nobly born
And filled a high position.
What joy to seethe news in type
That we were getting thinner,
Or smoked a silver-mounted pipe
(A meerschaum) after dinner.
But this is merely watting breath,
None care to learn our capers,
And nothing but “ A Sudden Death ”
Could get us in the papers.
* ok *
Royal Highness, good and great,
Portly pillar of the State,
Suffer us, on hended knee,
Thus to telegraph to thee;
Though it be but utter rot,
Gracious Prince, despise it not;
Butter laid on nice and thick
Never yet made monarch sick.
Royal Highness, good and great,
Grovel we must inculcate
In the minds of one and all,
Else would thrones in pieces fall;
Grovel—unadultered, pure—
Is glue that keeps a throne secure;
Pain we would, then, cable bosh
Just as long as it will “ wash.”
Amen.
Stephen Georgie Samway Spicer,
All your troubles now are over—
You will find the new plaoe nicer,
Henceforth you will live in clover.
Spicer Samway Georgie Stephen,
Other men have met with failure-’
Found their paths in life uneven—
When they landed in Australia.
Samway Stephen Spicer Georgie,
Why, though, seek a rope’s assistance
When, depressed by some long orgie,
You grew weary of existence ?
Georgie Spicer Stephen Sam way,
When we want to cut life shorter
We’il stick our head upon the tramway,
Or hold it underneath the water.
To the swankers of Nhill it was Seottie that spoke,
“ I will swill the six pints though my stomach be
broke,
If not in six minutes I'll do it in seven,
Or be done with this world and pass straight up to
heaven.
“ So fill up my pewter as fast as ye can,
For this bet I will win or I’ll die like a man.”
And the crowd plauked their money and waited
around
Till he drained his last drop and fell prone on the
ground.
“ Unbutton his collar, stand back, give him air,
Ho, Seottie, rouse up, monl”—but Scottie’s dull
stare
Showed he heeded no more the mad reveller’s cry,
But had drunk his last pint and had lain down to
die.
But weep not for Soottie, for in the dry ground
He’s far better off than the corpses around,
For while not a drop cornea to moisten their
joints,
Soottie starts the death journey blown up with ten
pints.
SENSIBLY DRUNK.
The other day, in Brisbane, a prisoner
pleaded as an exeuse for a theft that he was
“ sensibly ” drunk. An honest man at last. Pass
the baDjo till we serenade him in his lonely cell:—
Borne men go mad when they get drunk,
And knock thiDgs all about,
While others homeward seek the bunk,
And snora the shandies out;
Some lose their legs at once and lie
Where’er they rest each trunk—
This erring one alone can vie,
He “ sensibly ” got drunk.
He knew the gross amount of drinks
He and his mates did quaff;
Whilst he was cool they played high jinks,
And drank but shandy-gaff.
He saw them all still glbrious grow,
Yet sober as a monk,
He tossed his glass with “ here’s a go,”
And “ sensibly ’’ got drunk.
They shouted more and louder stilt,
And still our hero drank,
Long beers he seemed at ease to swill—
Could stand them like a tank.
At last he homeward wound his way
(To rest his mates had sunk),
Whilst they in blest oblivion lay,
He “sensibly ” was drunk.
And he was copped just in the act
Of stealing all he could,
And straight into the dock was packed,
For reasons sound and good.
He told the beak, though not in jest
(He never tried to funk),
That though he drank like all the rest
He “ sensibly ” got drunk.
Now you who go upon the spree
This tip is really true,
Drink gallons and you’ll sober be
Without a ribbon blue.
But let your drink—now once again
Old Nick away has shrunk—
Be naught but Queensland beer, and then
You'll “ sensibly ” get drunk.
BRIEF MENTION .
I A Local Option petition was largely signed
at Rockhampton lately. Et tu Rockhampton!
Suns might wane and systems perish, still we
would have believed that Rockhampton was true
to rum. But after this—Jehoshaphat I
“What we owe to our oysters” is the
headiDg of a short article in the Brisbane
Courier, We did not read that article. We knew
at once the title was a misprint, and that it should
have been “ What we owe to our Oyatermen.”
As showing the disastrous effects of the
present drought it may be mentioned that an
aboriginal woman on a certain mission station
who has borne three black children, recently gave
birth to one with a fair face and decidedly red
hair.
The Western Grazibr reports that seve-
ral residents have left Wilcannia for Wilcannia’s
good. Eight of these patriots are doing a pil-
grimage in prison. All innocent people
—nothing but a bit of a murder or horsestealing
or larceny. Yet we call N.S.W. a free country.
Wybert Reeve, the actah, has written a
poem to his dog, which poem is published in the
Australasian. In it he states that this dog was
the best friend he had, and many more things to
the same effect. And yet he sits down in cold
blood and writes a poem on him 1 This is human
gratitude!
The Evening News says: “ More than 3000
people in one province in Russia are employed in
making barrel-organs. When the fact becomes
generally known Russia will not have a friend in
|* h e world.” Perhaps not—but she will have few
mrs left. The barrel-organ is mightier than the
lyonet and deadlier than the dynamite-gun.
There is an enterprising constable iu Bun-
iberg (Q.) who is in the habit of disguising him-
lf as a blackfellow in order to convict sly grog-
llers. This is a convincing proof of how low the
jorigines of the colony have descended. When a
iliceman can be mistaken for a blackfellow then
is indeed time for the native race to die out.
The Grafton Argus, in a paragraph stat-
ig that the Queen has no surname, remarks with
gnity—“ A great many people have no sur-
imes.” This is quite possible-in Grafton. At
le same time we would have been better pleased
ith the accuracy of the sentence if it had run
lis way—A great many people have the wrong
irnames.
A Condamiae squatter’s son was in the
abit of goiog to the men's hut. One morning at
reakfast, at his pirents’ house, he exclaimed—
Why, they say grace at the men’s but, mammal ”
Do they ? ” said mamma, “ and what do they
ly?” “Ob,” replied the hopeful youth, ‘‘Jack
lid,‘Thank God for that snack—l suppose our
mngey boss calls it a feed 1 ’ ”
The East Loddon (Vic.) Shire Council had
curious account rendered them the other day.
t ran this way“ To hanging the Hon. D. Coutts,
1.61.” On enquiry, it was discovered that this
r as a claim for hanging a portrait of the gentle-
lan named in the council-room. Otherwise, we
hould say that the charge was dirt-cheap, as the
harges for hanging go now-a-days.
At a private interview with a certain dis-
iDguished N.S.W. statesman, Stewpot Bumber-
md, asked the statesman; to concentrate his
houghts on some deeply-interesting subject. The
professor ” immediately wrote the letter “ I ” on
he blackboard, and as Sir wrung his hand,
e said, “ make it three, six, and nine months at
per cent., and I’ll send round the interest
egularly.”
The “ Extermination of Rabbits ” question
3 being seriously considered in Tasmania. The
nost novel idea suggested is that prayer should
>e offered up to deliver the land from this plague.
:t would prove an interesting experiment to see
whether the prayers of the wealthy minority
vould be more efficacious than those of the poor
najority, to whom the rabbits have been an incal-
julable blessing—when stewed with onions.
A Wallsend (N.S.W.) coal-miner preserved
ill the coal dust he washed off himself in 13
months, and says it weighed 9Mlb. This was from
iis face and hands only. As tnere is no record of
lis washing his body, we presume he is saving
Himself (for next year when he will go out on
strike, open a coal-yard in Sydney, and allow dis-
satisfied housekeepers to come with their own
bag, and dig off him a load as they require it.
At the Y.M.C.A. Conference held in Hobart
last January, defaulting secretary Walker was the
representative “ good young man” from Adelaide.
He filled a prominent position in a photographic
group of pious samples from each of the colonies.
Professional Christians welcomed him to the
bosoms of their families, and he was entertained
even by members of the exclusive Society of
Friends, whose peaceful principles deprive them
now of the luxury of swearing at his hypocrisy.
He was a stranger and he took them in.
From the Wallsend Sun we learn there
has been a horrible murder in Berlin. Our con-
temp, does not appear to have heard by the last
mail of the murderous assault on an Esquimaux,
at the mouth of the Ooi River. He was detected
robbing a neighbour of his winter’s supply or
blubber, and was knocked on the head with the top
of an iceberg. When taken to his hut, he exhibited
symptoms of choking, and a piece of blubber 31bs.
weight was fouod embedded in his gullet, so
that it was with difficulty he could join in the
evening hymn.
Copy of voting circular addressed to the
members of the Australian Mutual Provident
Society:—" Are you in favour of the proposal of
the Board to establish a branch of the society in
London ? If you are in favour, strike out No. It
opposed to it, strike out Fes.” Was ever a simple
question put in a more absurd way ? Why was
not the plain reply, “ Yes,” or “ No,” asked for ?
Before the members of the Board are allowed to
take alternate trips to England at the expense of
the society, they should at least be able to ask a
simple question in an English manner.
Scene, Quean bey an; time, May 15th. Enter
two yokels, conversing. First Yokel: “So you
tell me you were working in the same cutting with
Anthony Emmet. How did you get on with him?
Second Yokel (enthusiastically): “Didn’t get on
at all. Look ’ere, if ever there was a reg’lar fraud
and a gory choke-bore liar and skunk on the sur-
face of God’s earth it's the same Emmet.” Third
Yokel (imported, who has just been escorting his
Imminence the Kyardinal into town, and conse-
quently feels good, overhearing the last remark):
“Phwat’s that yer sayin’ about Robert Immit?
Pnwat have you to say agin Oireland ? Ye gory
Prodestan rinigade, I’ll bate yer fiat English head
qffl” Alarums and excursions. Exeunt fighting.
Bishop Webber, of Queensland, w ni tje
glad to learn that missionary work is meeting
with much success in the Far East. To wit—it is
the custom for military officers on their arrival in
India to discharge their European attendants
and engage native servants. On a recent occasion
a major of a Madras cavalry regiment was engag-
ing a native servant, and amongst other questions
asked him: “ And, haw-aw, what caste are you ? ’
The reply was rich:—“ Oh, sahib, me massa caste
—me Christian caste; all the same, massa. Me berry
good man-me eat pork—drink—plenty drffik, me,
sahib— drunk, and swear like h—. Oh, yes,
sahib, me Christian caste—massa caste all the same
—berry good man me.” Who says that mission
money is spent in vain ?
The Mount Gambier (3. A.) paper tells a
story of a free-selector who was suddenly struck
dumb and as suddenly recovered the use of his
speech three months afterwards. It thinks this an
inexplicable thing. We oon’t. The man was i ro-
babiy struck dumb with astonishment wheD the
canvasser of that paper showed it him and ssked
for his subscription, and recovered the use of ms
speech when the collector came round at the end
of the quarter for the money due—the canvasser
having taken eilonce as consent and booked the


man as a subscriber. If he didn’t clutch his know-
ledge of the English language at the profane end
and use up the stored invective of three silent
months when that collector called, then we know
nothing of the nature of the free-seleetor.
Albert: “ Elvira, don't you think we can er—a— dispense with this
light ? I’ll put it out if you a— ”
Elvira, “Certainly, Albert, if you think it interferes with Christian
courtship, by all means extinguish it.
younszj.
Anxious MaMma : 11 Really, Mary Jane, I think 4 o’clock
Wtih6 monung .is rather overdoing it, even upon a Christian
fa / y £r&*zcs,
Jo */«+ Y ‘ r *y Uj ~' >
/Xju __ ~
< y j£fa /uL |
$1 fjPyh |
W '/^rl£ZT / " I
tm. -A % V/ \
She .“This being Sunday evening I
d,on t think it would be quite right for
rne to give my consent now At all
events you had better call to-morrow
and arrange the details ot our wedding ”
cupid's new tactics.
Sarah’s Young Man : “ Now then, Sarah, let me see how-much
you can remember of your shorter catechism. First, ‘Q. What is
your nufne t ' ’
Sarah “A. My name is Sarah Brown at present. But——”
*av •» j} 0 car ds.
S , i i r .11 11 Ii 1
Widower : Eileen, my dearegt, rs we have, resolved
to conduct our courtship henceforth on a Christian w
we can. of course, have no more Sunday drives to Sand’
nnghain But instead. 1 will take you. for a walk next
Sunday to the cemetery to shw you my late wif^
lIIIIIHii/iir^ OwNER 0F r,HE 80 - OT! U - B '° u,nd Beell pettCo
Jlllllllllllll unto your soul, youns man, and then come
back here and pay-youi addresses to my daughter in a
Christian manner. "
JJiiAVY Father : “Now, j>ehg@ 1 give my consent, 1 will ask you a
question, have you found salvation 't ”
Would-be son-in-law : 64 No, not exactly, but I have found a nugget at
Kimberley as big as your head ! ”
Heavy Father : “ Odds, Bodikins, but I like thy wit Take hei, me
boy, and bless you both Excuse the natural anxiety of a father
for the welfare of a beloved cliild ! ” — Curtain.
*' Henry Havisham, 1 ' she cried, bitterly, “ when
you began courting me in u ‘ Christian manner ’ you gavo
up your Lodge, and now that we are married, you wa%,fe
to go back to it. Now, i don’t intend to allow y o.± to
back-slide, if 1 know it."
The Possibilities of Christian Courtship.
SOME THOUGHTS SUGGESTED BY THE REV. MR. FRACKLETONS RECENT DISCOURSE IN SYDNEY ON THAT SUBJECT.
There is something in a name after all. A
town district in New Zealand was gazetted under
the name of Hakatere the other day. The inhabi-
tants held an indignation meeting and formally
petitioned against the name. It appears that
*• hakatere” is Maori for “poverty-stricken,’
They evidently believe In the saying that if one is
poor he need not proolaim the fact from his house-
top with a trumpet. They would probably like
their little district to be called Goloonda or Eldo-
rado. It is a pardonable desire and serves to show
how civilisation gets the bulge on untutored bar-
barism. The simple Maori called the place H ika-
tere because it was so. The edututed Caucasian
knows that he couldn’t borrow a cent or sell an
allotment under such a name, and consequently
he kicks against it. No wonder Tennyson said we
were among “The foremost ./Be* ot Time.”
The Cumberland Mercury tells of a horse
that climbed up a whole flight of stairs and got
into a hay-loft, then—after the whole population
of Parramatta that was not engaged in drinking
bear at the time had gathered round and given 530
different opinions as to how the animal was to be
got back—calmly backed down the stairs again
and went into his atall-to think out another
splendid legend for the Mercury, no doubt. But
what is that for ahorse to do, anyhow, when we
have seen a moke carrying one of the staff of that
journal on his back through the open streets and
never once attempting to buck him into a coffln-
faotory, nor pretending to be ashamed of him the
whole time ? We can tell you a horse that can act
in that way, and take a hoof at the machine, and
dash off an occasional leader on European affairs
as well, is worth a paddoekful of such brainless
acrobats ofanima'sas the horse that climbed v*.
tae stairs and backed down again.
“Celebrities at borne”—the Adelai’o,
Pietists in gaol.


Mr. Sala’s health has broken down in
IndiaJ
Members of the Australian Mutual Provi-
dent Bociety say their chief actuary is Black,
guarding their interests in London.
A Melbourne man is advertised to read a
paper on “ Common Clay—what is it ?” Well, our
notion of common clay is “ a dead pauper.”
“You are disgracing your position as
President,” yelled a Kiimore shire councillor to
the chairman at a late meeting. “Bunkum,’ re-
plied the latter, briefly. We should think so. As
if he could 1
A prominent Presbyterian in Melbourne
lately suggested that “ missionaries should be
obtained from Scotland to convert the members
•of the Presbytery.” Pooh I Moses and Elias and
all the prophets would jib on such a contract as
that even if they had all eteri ity to tarry it out in.
£Jow, this is what we call a rare aod
touching example of loyalty. Three mer, in
•drinking long life to her Majesty, got drunk in
Wilcannia on Queen’s B rtbday. And the whole
three of them lay down side by side in tne gutte r
outside the lock-up so that they should be handy
for arrest and give no trouble to the police In
their enthusiasm about thtir Queen they made
themselves antagonistic to her laws < nd loyally
went and laid themselves out for punishment
Such faith we have rarely found outside of Potls
Point.
This is sad. An aged clergyman wis found
burned to death in his bedroom at Linooln. It is
believed that be got out of bed duGng the Light in
order “to write poetry.” Some spark of geniup
Ignited the poor old man before he had time to
get through with the first verse. Poets, as a rule,
Durn well. The quantity of rum they absorb
makes t dangerous to hold lighted matches near
poets. Any nioe, fat bard makes a splendid Qu.en's
Birthday bonfire.
There is a movement afoot in the
Northern Territory to get Port Darwin made a
municipality. As nearly all the white men there
are Government servants, and, therefore, debarred
from civic offices, we don’t see how the town
council is going to be fixed up unless they make
a Timor pony mayor, a family circle of alligators
alcermen, and a goat town clerk. Acc uncil con-
stituted of such materials would probably set
quite as sensibly as councils in more civilised
places and certainly compel far more rtspe c\
For oriticism of the keen and marrow-
searching order you must go to the Narandera
Argus, or nowhere under this blue empyrean
Speaking of some songs from “Mauiana” which
were given at a concert there lat ■ y, it says:
“Romany is essentially a soprano tongue.” Where
did the Narandera dramatic cricket leatn that
Romany was a sopreno tongue? But this is a
foolish question. There is internal evidence of a
youth passed in Bchemia in every line be writes
He is probably the son of a duke and wes spirited
away by tbe gipsi. s in his infancy. They nrght
have allowed him to grow up a dukefer ail the
good they have done him.
BY FLOOD AND FIELD .
“ Neil Matterson is descending the ladde r of
Tame with a vergeance. Frcm Wili am Beech to
David Godwin is aterribie come-down, and should
prove sufficieit to damp the ardour of even such
a glutton in tie confidence-line as tte young
Clarence riverite. The party who backed the lad
In Australia were everretdy to ruppoit ibe watch
against performances, and under tbe clock they
thought they had a veritable flyer inMatterson;
but beyond beating Messenger, Matterson never
showed to much advantage as a performer, and,
as we have oiten stated in the columns of this
fiaper, given Hagar Peaice in condition, we be-
ieve “ Footy ” able to make a holy show of the
overrated Clarence fiiver man. Matterson is to
meet Godwin over the Thames course on Monday
next. A cable says it is regarded as very uniiki iy
that Beach will take part in the proposed sculling
match with Hanlan. Rots, and Teemer, in which
case it is probable that a contest will be arrarged
for a Bweep3takes between the three latter. Beach
will show his sense by toting in this wise, as three
Yankees to one Australian is rather too great a
risk, and William might be fouled- by accident, of
course-but these sort of things happen in the best
regulated families.
• * *
Sullivan, the bruiser, by all accounts,
seems to have his good points, and one is almost
unbounded generosity. It is said of him that a
young fellow he knew, being very ill, a beniflt
was got up for him, aEd Sullivan went to tbe
door and paid 100 dollars for admission; and, on
another occasion, seeing a poor woman crying in
the street, with some slicks of iurniture alongside
other, he enquired the cause ot her trouble, and
being told she was evicted for her rent, paid the
amount due and a month over and gave her 20
dollars to boot. He is also credited with giving
liberally to all the charitable institutions. At tbe
Sydney Cathedral sermon the other day in aid of
the Lithgow fund, the bit of Gospel-grinding
wrung the enormous sum of thirty pounds out ot
the fashionable listeners. He who gives fr ely
gives twice, and, according to this showing, Sully
the Bruiser will stand 100 to 1 better chance, when
the final rally comes off, than any of the fashion-
ables who aired their so-called charity—and finery
—at the Cathedral on Sunday week last. Here
endeth the first lesson 1
* * *
The Oxford and Cambridge eight-oared
race over the champion course on the Thames,
from Putney to Mortlake, must have been a grand
sight. Four miles and a furlong, without daylight
ever showing between the boats. How the light-
blue ribbons and handkerchiefs must have flut-
tered when Cambridge won 1 But one finer
struggle was ever made (on that river: that was
when the two Universities rowed a head heat.
* * *
Foley’s gymnasium was crowded again on
Saturday, when the published programme under-
went a change, but good sets-to tcok tho place of
the billed articles, and altogether a good night’s
sport was gone through. Donoghue has evidently
taken unto heart the good old maxim of he who
fights and runs away will live to fight another
day, as he did not face the music with Dooley.
Dooley had all the beet of Snow for three rounds,
when Snow melted away. M'Carty, who had the
best of the elder Fuller in a three-round bout,
showed well, and promises to make a brxer, for to
us he did not appear to be exhibiting all he
knew of the game. The excitable little Murphy
ding-donged with “ Dserfoot ” tiil the couple were
a pair of busted bruisers, and at tbe finish neither
retained the hitting power!to buit the other
Foley was on the card for a four round kacck-out
with Pablo Frank, but for some reason or other
Pablo couldn't exactly see it in the same light, and
a friendly set-to took the place of the knock-out.
However, it was doomed blood was to flow as
Pablo accidentally butted Foley on the forehead
and drew blood when tbe curtain was ruog down.
These well-conducted boxing matches are becom-
ing so popular that Foley has found it necessary
to provide more sittiDg room and he has had one
side of the ball fitted with subitautial tiers of
Beats. Foley has now a standing offer ot flue
guineas, on any or every Saturday evening, to at y
comer who cad withstand him for three rounds.
However, from present appearances, a team of
bullocks would he more efficacious than the fiver
in drawing a lamb to the slaughter.
* * *
The rain on Saturday was not sufficient to
damp the ardour of the footballers who brought
off their little bits of fun. The Gardiner Cup
matcb between the Gordons and Balmain Welling-
tons proved anything but a soft thing for tbe
Gordons, who won py two points, ana one of those
was a questionable one without a doubt. The
Well'ngtons made a flrst-olass show, although
forced down several times by their more weighty
opponents, A team from the Albion ranks re-
ceived a heavy drubbing at the hands of the
Wallaroos, with whom they played a drawn battle
a couple of weeks ago; while for the Junior Cuo
the Strathileids wiped out the Manly club by 7
points to 3.
• * *
The postponed Suburban (Sydney) Bicycle
Club Intercolonial meeting has been fixed to come
off on Saturday next, when some first-class racing
may be depended upon. Con. Dwyer is in first-
class trim, and should prove just about fast enough
to beat Wood and secure the mile championship.
9 « 9
The much-postponed Rosebill races were
at, length brought off on Saturday last in the pre-
sence of some 2000 spectators. Junius, at 6to 4 on.
won the Amateurs’ Cup from PalaMn ; the Lid es’
Raoe was appropriated by Bravo; Whitefoot won
the Cavalry Cup from Palavandera, the favourite,
Verdi, not runring into a place; the Old Boys’
Race was annexed by Seymour, and Rufus Dawes
had better luck than Marcus Clarke s hero when
he carried eff the Selling Stakes from Chance.
* ♦ *
It is something like 12 months au,o since
we first waxed enthusiastic over the nerve and
nous dispiayi d by the chorubimio light-weight
Gorry. Since then the little lad has liddenall
sorts of winners on all sorts of courses His via-
tory oa All Gold-a bit of stuff that only glitters
orctsionally—was a masterpiece of good judg-
ment We showed equally good judgment in first
sounding Gurry’s praises.
* * *.
The cabled result of the English Derby is
such a vindication of “form” as Australian
backers sigh for in vain The two first horses each
held unbeaten certificates at the end of last sea-
son. Ormond had run three times, the Bard 16
times. 0.-mond made bis first appearance this
tear in the Two Thousand Guineas, wbion he won.
He and the Bard met for the first time in the
Derby, a • d they ran first and second, the Duke of
Westminster's grand colt repeating the Guineas’
THB SYDNEY MAYORAL JUBILEE “FEED.”
Little John Young, he
A new idea sprung, he
Ordered a Jubilee pie—
He put in his thumb,
And pulled out a plum
In the form of a baronet-Cy.
[N.B.—We mean knighthood, but that wouldn’t rhyme.—En. B.]
coup. Such form as ;that speaks volumes for the
way in which the English cracks are handled by
their trainers. Ormond is the Duke of West-
minster’s third D ?rby winner within seven years,
his predecessors being Band Or and Shstover.
Tom Cannon would have the mount.
* * *
Another of those edifying scrambles
known as Gras co-Roman wrestling matches was
brought off in Melbourne last week. The contes-
tants were Graham end that most ill-starred
gladiator, Monsieur Victor. It terminated in
Victor s defeat and a general row. The unfor-
tunate conditions of this particular style of
wrestling, by which the underneath man is gene-
rally found to have rattier the best of the strug-
gle than otherwise, seem to breed general discon-
tent. By the way, there doesn’t appear to be
much money in the game j ust now. D maid Dtn-
nie and the “ Professor ” are both in Melbourne
“ resting” until the times are ripe for another
deadly struggle. Then they will fling themselves
once more into the breach, and the. result will be
honours divided.
# «I *
Melbourne “sports” were hugely inter-
ested In the slander case, Lie v. Saqui, trkd last
week. Mr. Lee is one of those sanguine indi-
viduals who back big event doubles. In June of
last year betook IcOO to 3 bets about piekiog the
winners of Melbourne Cup and V.R C Derby. Mr
Austin S qui was the recipient of his favours.
On of these doubles (comfort ye, O backers!) wa?
Nordenfeldt and Sheet Anchor, Ssqul endorsed
that wager on the block of the cheque wherewith
Lee paid him In his betting book, unbapnily, it
appeared as Newstiad and Sheet Anchor, Norden-
feldt being coupled with Silver King. Hence the
trouble. Lee applied for his £lOOO. Saqui repudi-
ated the wager. Lee sent round the blook oi the
cheque-book to Bowes’, and Saqui was so unwily
as to state openly that the writing was a forgery,
and he would have Lee arrested. The disappointed
backer promptly seized bis opportunity and
brought an action for slander. Ho didn’t got his
double, but he did get £3OO compensation for the
outrage on his feelings. Although the jury ac-
quitted Mr. Saqui of wilfully making a mistake in
his betting-book entry, the result of the trial was
somewhat, of a blow to the fraternity of metal-
icians. The learned Judge expressed a sort of
regret that he had never taken the trouble to
satisfy himself that his little investments were
correctly entered, ft pained him to think that in
the event of any of the judicial good! hmgs ooming
off, the wager might have been disputed. Even
if a man has fairly lost, it riles him to fancy that
under any circumstanoes he couldn’t have won.
But the verdict in this case proved that Mr. Lee did
absolutely lose his £lOOO through omitting to look
over Saqui's shoulder. If many more of these
little mistakes ooour, the long-suffering backers
will demand to certify their own bets with their
signatures. As matters stand at present, the
public have to accept, as infallible, entries which,
more often than not, they get no opportunity of
looking at.
* * *
The Newcastle lovers of the noble art
have a bit of a treat in store for them on June 7,
when Jack Hall and the local Charlie Dunn are to
meet at the Victoria Theatre in a Queensberry en-
counter, for £lOO. We saw Lawson make a first
c’ass show with Dunn one evening, and ai Hall
can make short work of Lawson, by comparison
Hull should have an easy task before him. This
line of arguing does not always come off, but in
this case we fancy Hall will prove an easy victor.
® • ®
The Berlin Rowing Club will send a boat
and a picked crew to the Thames this year.
* * *
G. Friedman, who won the recent Waratah
Sheffield on the 16 yards mark in 14mtn 3 10sec., is
only 18 years of age, and Is evidently of booming
volcanic origin, having been born at Mount Win-
gen, which is a sort of penny squib Vesuvius, near
Murrurundi, Friedman is the telegraph operator
there at present, but we believe that, in order to
save bloodshed, the authorities intend to appoint
him chief messenger in the Sydney ®ffice, bo that
the now maddened citizens may be enabled to re-
ceive their country telegrams during the same
month that they leave for their destinations.
* * *
The Brisbane cricketers have lately been
abusing each other in the local press relative to
some very shady transactions connected with the
defunct Cricket Association. Some most interest-
log facts have thus come to light, of which the
public had previously been kept in Ignorance.
One item of expenditure in the last balance-sheet
was £Buo for “ei tertaining ” the Australian
eleven. The eleven stayed only a few days in the
capital of Queensland, so that.somebody must have
made tho pace pretty hot.
* * *
As has already been stated, this year Mr,
Fairbairn, of Geelomr. rowed in the winning crew
in the English inter-University eights race. Last
year a young Tasmanian, a Corpus college man,
rowed with the Oxford crew.
» '• * e
An English lord, much addicted to bil-
liards, wrote to Roberts, the champion billiard-
player, at the beginning of April, asking for an
appointment to take lessons Roberts replied that
he was engaged at a guinea an hour every day
until the 26th of May.
Louisa Hart, the London proourets, has
been sentenced to five years’ imprisonment,
whereat she wept bitterly. No effort seems to
have been made to discover the “ respectable
elderly gentleman ” to whose vice she pandered.
As usual, the chief offender escapes. He is a
wealthy man, certainly, or else he couid not have
afforded such luxuries, and it is darkly hinted that
he holds a high position in the world. He is most
likely a churchwarden, or perhaps a judge. Mind,
we only say “perhaps.” Hs may possibly not be
either
Eaglish society is professing to be shocked
and amazed at recent exposures of card-sharping
at the best clubs. An “ example ” seems to have
been made of a certain Mr. Bertie Ricketts, and
for a while, no doubt, swell clubdom will choose
to assume that its honour is unimpeachable. We
find a London paper saying “card-sharping will
oertainly be a bold game after this last expose, and
we expect that its many votaries will give it up.”
B-o-s hi Nobody with any knowledge of the sub-
ject expects its votaries to do anything of the kind.
An ocoasional adventurer, like this Ricketts, may
be dropped upon with virtuous severity, but the
genuine high-toned, blue-blooded manipulator of
the “broads” knows that he has nothing to fear
no long ay he doesn’t “do it too openly,” or maim
his pigeons beyond recovery. There are noble-
men of high degree, habituts of the “best” clubs,
who have for years eked out a Blender income by
dint of their phenomenal ability to turn the king.
There are intimate friends of the Prince of Wale B
who have taken lessons in sleighbof-hand from
common card-sharpers. The rendezvous was the
back parlour of a shy London tavern, and two or
three times a week would plebean professors and
patrician pupils meet together for mutual improve-
ment. The latter doubtless imagined that their
identity was a secret from the men who initiated
them into the mysteries of stacking and dealing—
but it wasn’t. The story has leaked out, and must
have reached the ears of many of their fellow-
clubiter, without in any way impairing the social
standing of the parties implicated. Such as are
“ia the know” choose to hold their tongues,
even among thsmselves, so long as the swindling
is kept within reasonable bounds. Secure in their
own knowledge, it is enough for these old birds
that nobody attempts to salt their tails, and they
discreetly close their eyes to what goes on around
them. A fashionable clubman's “honour” is a
decidedly passive virtue. Bo plays square him-
self, and prefers to pretend that his noble friends
do the same. When any of them acquire the
reputation of beiDg lucky, he quietly avoids their
table—from a pious dread of any unpleasantness,
don’t you know. Everyone has heard the story of
a young greenhorn rushing to that prince among
card-playerp, the late George Payne, with the in-
formation that he had detected a nobleman cheat-
ing at ecarte. “What ought I to do ? ” en quired
the ingenuous youngster. “ Back his play,” said
George Payne. The old veteran considered that
the scandal attendant on exposing a trickster was
more of a nuisance than tha light-fingered gentle-
man himself. And thus it is that card-sharping
will still continue to flourish among the “best”
people—on polite sufferance.
Nothing vindicates our remarks concern-
ing the necessity for keeping ecclesiastical influ-
ence out of Melbourne University more forcibly
than the deoision lately arrived at by the govern-
ing body to give away the new professorship of
philosophy without open competition. Philosophy
is a subject that occupies sensitive ground. It
dare not be extruded wholly by a University at
the present day. But in as far as the University
desires to maintain existing opinions it acts warily
and admits only such elements as can disturb
nothing. This sentiment has operated in Mel-
bourne. If the Professorship had been thrown
open to competition, as any other ohair would
have beer, a disciple of some of the great philo-
sophers of Europe might have responded. It was
not unlikely that he might turn out as untract-
able on the matter of the higher speculations as
any of the masters under whom he studied. There-
fore, the course of making an appointment with-
out asking for applications was taken. No doubt
Dr. Laurie, on whom the choice fell, is a highly
competent man, but the lecture-chair which he
hss hitherto filled has established for him no com-
manding position in public estimation. Were
ecclesiastical influence absent, the appointment, it
tio < n ltala * wculd ave been submitted to competi-
The first witness we have heard of for
some time whose word has been taken as gospel
immediately, appeared in the Melbourne Licen-
sing Court the other day. In answer to a question
whether he drank or not, he replied promptly, “ I
don’t drink beer because I’ve vot a sore leg, and
I’ll show it to you now.” He was allowed to
stand down without showing it. And this reminds !
us. There is in this world a low class of men who
are never so proud as when they have a sore leg
and can go around showing it to their friends. Im
the trouble arises through an accident they are
all the more pleased. There is something dramatic
in an accident. But what a gaudy joy is theirs
when they are able to hirple out on crutches and
tell the story over and over again, adding colour
and incident to it each time, till at last it becomes;
a perfect and polished narrative. The nearest ap-
proach to happiness and contentment we have 1
met with in the course of our existence appeared!
before us in the shape of a man with a sore leg.
We had begun to form very poor opinion®
of the Kimberley district from the reports we saw
in the papers, but now we are re-assured. In a
letter to thejDubbo Dispatch, a gentleman lately
arrived from the Kimberley, says:—“ The Ord is a
beautiful river. . . For 50 miles or more, as
far as the tide goes up, it is infested with alligators,
but beyond tidal influence the river is full of cro-
oodiles.” This is just too charming. It convinces
us, for one thing, that no undertakers or grave-
diggers will be required over there for some time
to come. The correspondent then cheerfully re-
marks:—“The blacks in this part of the country
are cannibals, as they eat their own children, and,
no doubt, they would treat the white man the
same, but they are too wild to attack, as they run
like deer at the sight of him, but when they be-
come half civilised, they will be troublesome, no
doubt.” This is a consolation, anyhow. On the
whole, we are not ill-pleased that we allowed Carr
Boyd (who, by the way, is referred to as “Pot-
jostler ” in the Brisbane Courier) to sail without
us. There are plenty of alligators and crocodiles
and blackfellows in the world, but only one copy
of us.
Wolfe’s Schnapps has often been pirated,
but has never had a rival.
As an antidote to the consequence of late,
hours Wolfe’s Schnapps stands preeminent.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a most comprehensive,
preventive and remedy against ali diseases.
Thousands of physicians and analysts have
certified to the purity of Wolfe’s Schnapps,
No stimulant is more reliable than Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Bodily irregularities and weakness can be
remedied by Wolfe’s Schnapps.
All diseases requiring invigorative treat ]
ment are cured by Wolfe’s Schnapps.
As a strengthener of the weak Wolf’es-
Schnapps is absolutely matchless.
Have you lost your appetite ? Then take
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Something upon which we can rely-*'
Wolfe s Schnapps.


ft CS
K t
//r y/Jbtooftk ftea'SonJ.
[j/'ja /&*ncr>-e.c/ /fccots£/ /nfcn*£ y#
/ffo MlM£ atZZu^eC
■gszxf£&£-
<2s/r yiy/?7z „ ,J
* / *&**^*'* Jr
Jactf /ytznf's
OBJECTIONS TO PAYMENT OF MEMBERS IN NEW S[?]TH WALES AND THE MAN WHO CANT GO TO PARLIAMEN[?] BECAUSE MEMBERS ARE NOT PAID
Payment of Members We desp’s.
Poor greed of Pal[?]ry pell[?]
The man's an ldiot in our eyes
Who can't earn cash himself.
He feels the presage of an ev.l hour;
He knows his own [?]ne worth his honest power;
Fain would he he go bilah! the hope flits pant,
The “ res angusla do mi" holds him fast.


Political
Points
THE WAY IN WHICH MR. STUART CUMBERLAND “PROMOTES IMPERIAL
FEDERATION.”
Mr. Cumberland could read the thoughts of The Bulletin representative,
but did not care to announce them, for our gifted writer was formulating
his opinion of Mr. S. C. in a truly libellous fashion.
Lord Cowper said, at a Tory meeting in
London: “We have not destroyed Protestant
ascendancy in Ireland to put Catholic ascendancy
In Its place.”
On his journey to England from Sydney,
Bir Alexander Stuart visited Ottawa, and while
there was interviewed by a pressman who asked
him what the feeling was in N.S.W. concerning
Imperial Federation—to which he is reoorted to
have replied that “ the people there manifested no
enthusiasm about it, and that he was of opinion
that the idea was not altogether practicable.”
The Boston Pilot says that when, in 1877,
Gladstone visited Ireland, “ he went to the graves
of the grand fellows who had held life cheap if
liberty was to be had. They showed him Robert
Bmmet’s grave. Mr. Gladstone stood silent and
sad by the grave, the Irishmen of the party stand-
ing with bare heads, silently observing him. Then
he turned away without speaking and left the
place.”
The Referee thinks the Gladstonian Irish
scheme “ will never reach port. It will come to
grief on the rocks. It is a mastodon essay in revo-
lution: it is a courageous attempt to charm the
anaconda of lr*sn discontent to sleep with music
instead of drawing its fangs and burning its head.
... We were told that Mr. Gladstone in-
tended to sue for a divorce; instead of that he
only applied for a judioial separation.”
Said the Sydney D.T. when Sir Henry
lately spoke on its side:-“ It is the distinguishing
merit of Sir Henry Parke 3 that he for the iirst
I time in the debate made the House realise the
moral enormity of the act of political duplicity in
which it was in danger of becoming an accom-
plice while in a state of something like nightmare.
Fancy Bir H. on the “ Moral Enormity of Political
Duplioity, 2 vols., Edited and with an Introduction
by the JP.TI'’
Mr. J. C. Firth, of Auckland, has started a
practical test of the “ farms for the people ” Ques-
tion. Out of his large estate he has marked off 25
grass farms of 50 acres at the average cost to him-
self of the whole of his estate, £5 per acre. They are
in good grass and olover, and to applicants with-
out capital he advances enough for a cheap cot-
tage and for fencing, and will rent them milch
cows at 15s. per year. The title may be famed in
10 years or a longer term. Great interest is being
taken in the experiment in N.Z.
The state of the votes in the Commons
was calculated by a Tory organ, at the beginning
of April, to be as follows:-Gladstonians, ready to
vote for any Gladstonian measure whatever, 235;
Parnellites, ready to vote for this Gladstoni .n
measure, 86-321. Hartingtonians, ready to follow
Lord Hartington against this measure, 80; Cbam-
berlainites, ready to follow Mr Chamberlain against
this measure, 15; Tories, ready vote against any
Gladstonian measure whatever, 250-345. Probable
majority against the Gladstonian Irish pro-
posals, 24.
The Northern Miner will go in for Sepa-
ration in case it is found impracticable to put awav
the centralisation of all power in Brisbane, .’ays
Tbadeus-‘*Mr, Gr.ffith will have to choose be-
tween government by Great Toe from Brisbane,
or government by Home Rule- The former is a
proved failure, and the North is so sick of it that
it is partly willing to ‘take a leap in the dark
and risk everything rather than continue under it.
There is one thing on which the North is unani-
mous-there must be an end to the? present system
of centralisation in a Great Toe.”
Iu order to arrive at a true estimate of
Gladstone’s status as a political leader and states-
man we would advise the colonial politician to
contrast him with Parkes—who d lain be our
dictator. The one, an intellectual Saul among the
people, through sheer mental pre-eminence, gives
cohesiveness to an ill-assorted majority composed
of Whigs, Liberals, Home Rulers, and Radicals,
and thus is the true ruler of thiroy millions of peo-
ple. The other, a heaven-born statesman, has a
following of live, or thereabout', and rules none;
unless you reckon Frawncis Happigal as some-
body What a falling off is here I
Notwithstanding the very large number
of unemployed ad over the colonies, the Queens-
land Government still persist in bunging large
numbers of immigrants from the old country-
poor devils, many of them, who think that when
they once get to "Australy” t*eir troubles will
be over. Ia many cases they have to take isitua-
tions at as low or lower wages tban they could get
where they came from I'he cry of “no coolie
labour” decided the last geneial election In
Queensland. If indiscriminate Immigration is con-
tinued in that colony, the next election cry of the
working classes will probably be “ No more pauper
immigration!”
As we have been ioformed by ca\le, the
Socialists, Hyndman. Champion, Burns, and
Williams, were acquitted of sedition after a pro-
tracted trial which cost the four defendants over
£250 each. No other verdict could possibly have
been given, and it is not likely that such an in-
dictment will ever be drawn again in England.
The nearest precedent for such a trial wf s 94 years
old, and from the beginning toe case must have
teen looked upon as a huge farce. Of course, as
property had been destroyed the authorities wore
forced to try to convict somebody. The Soc al
Democrats have largely increased in numbers and
influence since the affair of what is called Mob
Monday. Even the Times is frequently obliged
now to descend from its pedestal to notice their
arguments.
“ Albertland” is the name that the North
Queensland Separationists have chosen for their
new colony-in case their movement is sue
cessful. We presume this is intended as a com-
pliment to the late Albert the Good. If so we con-
sider it as ab3urd as it is fulsome. The names of
this Dutch royal family of ours have bean icit
tered over the earth quite enough without that
addition to them. Why not give the new division
of Australia a sensible name?
Jimjimsland is net very poetic, but it would con-
vey bushels more of truth and meaning than the
other title. We hope the North Queenslanders
will give this name a calm and unrumexcited con-
sideration. If, however, they don’t like it, we
propose as an alternative, " Liberia failing the
adoption of which “ Longbeeria” would do.
Brisbane now lacks a political Irishman
of the fine old representative type— a man tit to
invent sticky epithets and launch into song or
sermon at a minute’s notice. Dr. O'Doherty i 3
away in England, the Hon. John Macrossan
among the diggers of the North preparing the
way for Separation, and the other day the Hon.
Patrick Parkins passed through Melbourne en
route for the home of bis sires. One day lately
there was a massive gathering up there, and the
only representative of the land of “ illcqulnce
that faced the meeting shook in hi* sleeves for a
quarter of an hour, articulated “Bedad ” twice,
and relapsed into obscurity with a tbud. Seeing
that even Welshmen have Griffith and Scotchmen
have MTtwralth to belt the tympanum of Banana-
land, there is cause for tears in this ignoble
spectacle.
We sec in the London papers a prospectus
of the “lii Loyal and Patriotic Association,” a
bg Tory oiganisation, designed “to form one
United Association for all Ireland for the pur-
poses of maintaining the Union existing between
Great Britain and Ireland, and upholding the
rights and liberties to which every Irishman is en-
titled under the laws aad Constitution of the
United Kingdom ” The joke is that nine-tenths of
the vloe-presidents are “ noble ’’-men; the remain-
ing tenth are all b,ronets and colonels. At the
foot of the prospectus we read-” The Irish Loyal
and Patriotic Union is in no sense a party or
landlords’ organisation. Its platform is open to
all.” The fact that the “ Union ” considers it abso-
lutely necessary to say that the show isn’t being
run in the landlords’ interest, speaks volumes.
But then the Jingoes never were conscious
humorists.
United Ireland alleges that Chamberlain
opposes Gladstone’s Irish proposals because he,
Joseph, some time ago, believing Gladstone was
about to follow the example of Elijah, and “ go up
higher,” squared his shoulders to receive the
dropped mantle. Joseph at this time had also
determined that his first appearance in the new
costume should be in the character of Solver of
the great Irish Enigma. Joseph metaphorically
strutted up and down in front of the looking-glass
and gesticulated and gave off speeches, in blank
verse and otherwise, with regard to Irish rights
and wrongs, and everything was ready for his
debut, as he imagined, when the G.O.M. suddenly
announced that, so far from taking a final benefit
and retiring from the boards, he proposed to star
during the season in the very character Joseph
had been rehearsing. Then began the bad feeling.
Joseph accented a minor role in the play with a
bad grace, and rehearsed all right with the excep-
tion of a few ruciiona with the stage-manager.
But on the eve of the first performance the black
dog on his back shook off its muzzle and developed
hydrophobia. Joseph, in stage parlance, “ threw
up his part ” during the final rehearsals, and he
threw it up on the ground that he didn’t think the
play was a good one. But the real reason of his
withdrawal from the cast was that he had written
himself a play on the same subject, in which he
was the hero and had all the “ fat,” and when he
becomes the manager of a show of his own he will
mount that piece and star in it himself. And this
is the true story of the retirement of the Birming-
ham tragedian from Mr. Gladstone’s company.
This nice little story—which we print more
particularly for the edification of our religious
readers-comes from the Western District of Vic-
toria. It appears that at a township down that
way there Is a thunder-
ing' fine preacher who,
though not a regularly
licensed Satan-smiter, is,
never the’ess a terrific
tant*lS3r of the eLemy
of mankind. Well, this
preacher happens, on
week-days, to be a dealer
in provisions - and nearly
as smar ; at dealing as at
preaching. But so great
became his fame at the
atter that, at incalculable
expense to their convic-
tions, the members of a
denomination different
from that to which he be-
longed, asked him to
come to their church and
stir their souls up at
morning and evening ser-
vice on a certain Sunday.
He agreed, and came in
the morning, and gave
p'easure to all, in ad-
dition to routing the
enemy of mankind with
great slaughter. Bat
when evening came, and
the church was li r , and
the crowded congrega-
tion ready, there was no
preacher. They waited
and they waited. The
young man at the har-
monium played alt the tunes he knew down to th«
“ Dead March.” The young women In the choi'
Fang till ttcy were green In the faces
And still eo butter-selling Boanerges came.
The congregation had, at last, to tile slowly awaj
and potter home through the dark with curses Id
their mouths where prayers should have been
The next day one of the elders met the preacher
in the street, and said reproachfully to him,
What was the matter with you last night?’
“ Matter ?” repeated the preacher, in a tone ol
slight astonishment, “nothing.” “Nothingl” ex-
claimed the other in a voice of still deeper re-
proach, “you were expected to preach in our
church last night.” “ iTes.” “And you didn’t
come?” “No—l didn't” (sternly). “And you
sent no substitute or explanation of any kind ?
“No” (with increasing sternness); “I went to
your churoh in the morning; I looked around me
but I saw no one there who dealt at my shop, and
I said to myself, * I’m not going to preach here
this evening.’ And I didn’t!” There, now I We
consider that a man of sound principles. If you
won’t buy my groceries you can go to Gehenna
for all the helping I'll give you to Heaven. What
sounder principle could you have than that ?
The following, from the great Official
Liberal London paper, the Daily News, Is a sign
of the times, and might be read in conjunction
with the recently-reported speech of that newly-
titled lickspittle, Lord Wolseley, on the Irish ques-
tion
Coercion or Conciliation.
Now ’ords and gents of birth and blocd
Rev train your fiery zeal;
Powder and shot's not all yye’ve got
A nation’s woe to heal*
If Ireland needs a friendly hand,
A brother’s honest shake,
Let’s hold it out with right good will,
And not for Fashion’s sake.
O, Ireland I our brave working men
Have forged no human chains;
Despotic Power was never theirs,
And runs not in their veins.
Theirs is the soul that scorns to stoop
To Insolence and Pride;
’liB their demand that through the earth
God’s Justice shall preside.
In all thy depth of bitter woe
That never heart can tell,
From Justioe thy relief must come,
And not from shot and shell.
’Tls not from noble dukes and lords
That Freedom ever comes;
There is no love twixt clashing swords,
Or peace in kettledrums.
Content’s a virtue strongly urged,
By" preachers duly fed;
And force will be a remedy
When bayonets are bread.
Let then official patriots curse
And tyrants cry aloud;
Let mighty dukes and lords coerc3
Tne I‘ghtning in the cloud.
Although a duke might make a law,
Resistance to forbid,
No duke with any ass’s j rw
Could do what Samson did.
’Tls not the foot that crushed the flower
Can ever make it grow;
’Tis not the grinding heel of Power
Can cure a nation’s woe.
’Tis honest heartfelt sympathy
That man to man unites,
The Social Plan requires for all
A brotherhood of righfs.
“His thirst for drink grew stronger, and
his respect for himself day by day became less.”
This is from the Sydney War Cry, but it could
have been from any journal or from any treatise,
even of a philosophical cast, published in recent
times. We want to mark what seems a grave
error in the expression. A drunkard’s respect for
himself does not, we are of opinion, day by day
become less. It is his disrepect for those about
him, if he ratiocinates at all on his relation to
society, that grows- Possibly he does not ratio-
cinate. but simply keeps on going down by a sort
of spirituous gravitation, till he reaches the ideal
state of lying prone at the bottom of a beer-vat.
But this mental state is, we contend, in no sense
one of disrepect for himself. It is disrepect for
the conditions with which his drunken mind is
surrounded. Not that we ought to know—we
have always been teetotallers.
SPOFF. COMPLAINS OF THE WEATHER
BEWARE
Unprincipalled persons, jealous of the success of
Warner’s safe cure, and utterly unscrupulous as
to the means employed to compass their selfish
ends, advertise in the public prints that their
nostrums will cure Kidney and Liver Diseases.
Buch a result was never heard or thought of until
it was believed money might be obtained by trad-
ing on tne fair name and fame of Warner’s safe
cure. Any person of intelligence knows that Vile
Whisky Bitters will not, never has, nor ever can
cure diseased Kidneys or Liver. The raw liquor
in theire cheap decoctions acts as fire on the delicate
tissus of the inflamed and congested organs, and
makes their victim infinitely worse. Yet what do
these human vultures care ? Nothing I It is ‘your
money and your life’’with them. There is but
one known specific for Kidney, Liver, and Urinary
diseases, and that is Warner’s safe cure. It has
been subjected to the most severe tests in three
continents, and incontestibly proved to be all it is
reprereited by hundreds of thousands of grateful
men and women. As you value your health, shun
all vile worthless Whisky Bitters as you would so
much poison.
If in need of a stimulant take Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
The wonderful cordial, Wolfe's Schnapps, will
drive away all physical ailments.


For Women Only.
Dr. Laura Morgan, the lady medico of
Melbourne, Is about to start a series of lectures to
ladies. We notice with satisfaction that one of
the subjects she proposes to treat is cooking.
There is sense in this—so much indeed that we are
encouraged to suggest to her a number of head-
ings under which she might discourse of matters
more vitally important to women than some other
subjeots she has ohosen. As a lady speaking to
ladies her words would have more weight than
anything a mao, were he Chrysostom or Dan.
O’Connor, could say on the question. Let us
think. Yes—
1. That the true destiny of a woman is to get
married.
3. That with this destiny in her eye she should
horoughly prepare herself physically and men-
tally for her future positions.
That (from the physical standpoint) she should
plenty of exercise, wear her dress as high in
►he neck as possible, and, on winter nights, insist
being made love to in a warm room. Nohus-
oand cares the price of two drinks for a wife sub-
ject to spasms or neuralgia.
4 That she should learn how to cook and practise it.
No husband likes to be doubled up by indigestion,
through eating theindiarubber pastry or cow-hide
fried chops of any woman, even if she happened
to be an improved edition of Venus Anadyomene
and filled to the chin with soulful poesy and
spiritual aspirations, besides being the favourite
daughter of the Princess of Pinchgut.
5. That, when married, she should not (unless
specially requested) sit up at night waiting for her
husband to return home. No man likes to be
watched. Neither should she question him as to
where he has been “till such an unearthly hour.”
If he chooses to offer her a gratuitous explanation
to the effect that he met some “ ole frensh,” or
“ had lor’-a-baok worksh do’sh sh’offloe,” let her
accept the explanation with the greatest appear-
ance of good faith. She need not believe it unless
she likes. If her husband happens to be a man of
humour she can make considerable fun—and per-
haps a new bonnet-out of him in the morning.
If he is not, she may probably acquire a blaok eye.
6. She must never be as clever es her husband-
that is, she must never let him think she is. This
is, with husbands, the unpardonable Bin.
7. Whenever he comes home in a condition of
chaos she should always have soft words and a
jarge glass of brandy-and-soda ready for him in
the morning.
8. If he takes it into his head (as the best of
husbands are liable to do at times) to paint the
town red and make a general wreck of his con-
stitution for several days, her duty is to exhaust
her invention in building him up again with beef
tea, weak brandy, champagne (if possible), pine
apples, grapes, ice, jellies, and whatever else his
fevered palate may require. She should watch
for the symptoms which indicate his tendency to
start on a “tear “(she will get to know them by
heart in time), and prepare for it. This she may do
by either rifling his pockets in the first night of
his rigadoon, or, if that fails, by taking in washing
or other work, so that she may be able to buy the
above-mentioned delicacies when he isleventually
laid on his back by the Liquor Fiend. It will also
be well for her to accumulate a stock of olothee
and jewellery while he is sober so that when he
does start on a spree he will not be compelled to
get off it prematurely through want of money.
9 When he is suffering a recovery she should
take care never to remind him of any of the jack-
asslshness he has been guilty of while he was
drinking. If she does ho will only wait till he gets
well again to go off on another rigadoon-seven
devils of times worse than the first.
10 She should on no consideration and under no
nrovocation whatever call in the assistance of her
mother-in-law. Many happy homes have been
wrecked by a wife’s want of sagacity in this
IGBpCCti . ,
Hiii she should never threaten to go home to her
mother unless she intends to go. There is usually
a front and back door to every house, and her
husband will not fail to sarcastically inform her of
this faot if she uses such a threat two or three
time without carrying it out.
13 She should always keep a supply of liquor in
the house for the entertainment of her husband
and such friends as he may choose to bring home
with him after the hotels are closed.
These are only a few suggestions which strike
us at present. We think, however, that they cover
a considerable part of the duties of a wife. We
might have added that she should always be a crown
to her husband, and frequently seven-and-sixpence
whenever he is dead-broke. But doubtless Dr.
Laura will, with her feminine keenness of appre-
hension, be able to improve and enlarge upon
them. We may mention that they are with us the
outcome of experience, and not mere evolutions
of internal consciousness. We have been married
ourselves before now and might still be exulting in
that gorgeous state if our wives had only been
taught these few golden rules before we married
them. Well, peace to the ashes of three of them!
The fourth calls regularly at the office for the lo
weekly shillings a tyrannical law compels us to
nav her. But there is no use in bucking against
the masculine intellect. Five of those shillings
and 10 others (profits of a mangle she is inning)
are paid by her every week into a neat little
society we are running-under an as-
building society that does not repay us
sumedname. But ev predecessors) made
made with her unspeakable cookery.
a for divorce says the woman in
the man •• that she did not love him;
that she heartily despised him and wished he was
that she near y f uner ai; she was
hfffh tempered? wctravagrnt, and refused to cook,
unless her husband Durchased one
W f a %nsA beautiful and stylish £3 33. suits, to
of those beaut de j: he Dame of summer-
Merchant Tailors, 235 and 337
Pitt- famous throughout the land.
She was quite right.
a tall muscular individual named Temper
with breaking the entire collection of
was charged w proper t y 0 f a boarding-house
K«where It appears Temper
Keeper Bros., 403 and 404 Qeorge-
fltree b t and was so impressed with. their grand dis-
i re . e l'ho?nnreturning to his lodgings and noticing
inferiority of his landlady 8 crockery utersiis
Droceeded to demolish them. He
Jot off%haflSe of 80.., and a promise to make
good This he did at once from the
beforenamed establishment.
THIS WICKED WORLD.
At Cairm they gave a banquet to Pre-
mier Griffith, who described the feed as “the
rowdiest and most disgraceful affair he had ever
been invited to attend.”— Captain J. W. Evans*
of the T.B.N. Co., has succeeded in making total
wreoks of two valuable steamers—Tasman and Esk
—in little more than two years. He is possibly
endeavouring to prove that the various reefs
marked on the chart are not mere myths but really
exist.... The Bathurst Wesleyan foreign mission
meeting was postponed owing to rain. Thus are
thousands of the woolly-headed Polynesians left a
fortnight longer in the darkness of night — Boga
is still keeping up the Queen’s birthday. It is
steeped in Imperialism. Even King Bambango-
long has his annual blanket embroidered on the
edge with the sign “V.R. and I.” wrought by
trim pink-nailed fingers Suggest’ve extract
from a private letter received in Sydney from
Perth, re the Kimberley gold-rush“ The people
here don't trouble much about the diggings.
Every boat takes about 30 or so for Derby, but
they are chiefly new arrivals from the other colo-
nies. Remember me to all the boys and tell none
to come here unless there is good gold struck
nearer the coast.".... It is said tnat when two San
Franciscans meet on the out-bound Honolulu
steamer they always address one another as
“shipmate.” In the same way when two men de-
parting from Bydney meet on a Vb risco-bound
vessel the first query is, “Hullo, how much did
you take?.... The report that the copy of a S.M
Herald leader fell on the head of a comp, and
brained him last week has been authoritatively
contradicted. We knew it was not true. They
are very careful in that office not to leave
such heavy things about....At the opening
of the Cairns railway the Queensland Premier had
no silver trowel, and, consequently, had to delve
away with a long-handed shovel.... Baron von
Bchleinitz, Governor of German New Guinea, and
baroness, and a lot of young von Schleioitzes
have arrived at Cooktown..... A Charters Towers
contribution to the science of sociology in North
CONSIDERATION.
AUGUSTUS: "NO, SHAWNT GO FURTHAH, ME DE-AH BOY SHALL JUST STAN
HERE AN HOUR OR SO, SO MANY GIRLS WOULD BE HOWIDDLY DISAPPOINTRED
IF THEY DIDN’T SEE ME. FOOLISH CWEATURES! BUT WE HAVE TO HUMOUR
THEIR LITTLE TENDERNESSES. DON’T YOU KNOW?”
Queensland:-" The miners are remarkably law-
abiding as a class, more so than any other
class. It is only parsons who indulge
the luxury of breaking the law here. ... Ano.d
salt, one “ Captain " Till, has discovered an island
of gold off the Queensland coast The papers up
there won’t believe it till each editor gets a nugget
to speculate in rum....Qundagai, Cumut, and
Adelong are furious because, although the railway
is finished up to the station, the Goverument de-
lays without explanation the taking over the line,
which, says the Tumut Times, is being, as far as
can be iudged now, run ia the interest of the om-
nipotent firm of Wright, Heaton, and Co , and no-
body seems responsible for the protection or lives
and property while the line is so used
F T.andH. P. Henty, of Melbourne, have issued
libel writs for £lO,OOO against the Age, Argus, and
Telegraph Adam Cleft, a Queensland abori-
ginal, has cleft his gin Lucy in a way never in-
tended in the marriage vo svs. He cleft her with
a tomahawk during a corroboree on St. Patrick s
night. Adam was celebrating the 1/th of Ireland.
Unless the CoußiEßhasbeen asleep, another Irish
crime" is now cabled to England..... The revenue
officers in Queensland are more than carrying out
their instructions. One was dismissed the other
day at Toowoomba. They do not try to detect
crime. They induce people to commit it, and then
haul them up.. ..A Queensland immigration agent
was asked in an English town if there were any
tigers and lions in Brisbane. Being satisfied on
that point he next asked him if there were any
savages there. The agent said there ww«, but
they were white and mostly meinbers of Parlia-
mnnt NZ. railways up to data have cost
£l3 738,000. Another loan of 50 000,000 should
make the whole system pay a portio i or the in-
terest A Buugendore correspondent writes that
since the rains the grass there is growing up green.
Coming up that wav to see how Home Rule is
sh<min«r likely The Evening News describes
the torpedo that was lost during the evolutions of
the Victorian Navy lately as rhe Murderous
Wanderer.” We should like to know now what
truculent epithet it has got;to spare for the travel-
ling reporter of the Jewnil.
* * *
In England, a country clergyman lately
disnensed with a sermon that his congregation
might hurry home and change their clothes, which
S many cases had been soaked by the ram. Two
weeks afterwards the clergyman hitnaelf died of a
cold! ...Perhaps the second biggest bell in the
world lfl that of Mingoon, Burmab, which weighs
90 tons. That of Moscow weighs Af°the
outcry is being raised about the inferiority ottne
English field artillery used in India to that with
which the Russian army is supplied.... Pa-
rnell is to be the new Viceroy of Irelaua,
according to Irish-American calculations.. y Tb ®
best way to stop a runaway cab-horse is to
step in front of it and exclaim in a voice sufficiently
loud for the maddened quadruped to hear, l
have engaged you by the hour, you ""
England’s annual tobacco-bill totals £13,500 OW. - • ■
Sherry and egg is what Mr. Gladstone tippled in
his great Home Rule speech..... 1 * iam very seedy,
said he to the doctor, against whom h© had run.
“ You don’t take sufficient exercise. tSufficieDt
exercise ?” snoited the ju3tly indignant one, it
fs X now five, and l have been playing Yankee grab
since one.’’. .Fond Wife: “ Did you bave pleasant
dreams last night, George? ’ George: “ Why do
you* ask ?” Wife: “ Becauee 1 noticed a pleasant
smile on your face as you el e pt.” George j : Yes,
I forgot for the time that I was married. .. . Miss
William? who married Lord Aylesford, ir&nkly
admitted atthe timVthat ‘Jid so only for his
tit’e After years of misery she decic ed qn cut-
ting’ the Gordian knot of hertrouble and wired her
r solve to h r husband th?n tiger-hunting in
India with the Prince of Wales, in theso brief sen-
tenees- “ I have tried to love you, and have failed,
lam goini away with Bandford.” His reply was
as emphatic as it was brief. *Go to H—•, was
the advice the wires returned to the lad /y.--“
said that Mrs. Langtry loves poodles and idolises
puppies. Life in Sydney would be just one
ftverlasting picnic for the lovely Lily. ....
A Paris paper asserts that the recant visit of the
Prince of Wales was for the b ?i I r ®^g
ing £50,000 from some one. It further alleges
that the Prince won £lO,OOO from Lord Dupplin at
Cannes by the agency of baccarat, and that the
aristocrat being unable to stump, made ahole
with a pistol-bullet in his aristocratic head. Which
interesting aneodotes see_n tp prove that America
has not a monopoly of fiction.... The U.sL Lon
gress has prohibited the labour of convicts or
aliens on any Government work. And In South
Australia Chinese are to be imported in thousands
to build a Government railway I.... Miss G. Damm
was married recently in Chicago. The event is of
world-wide significance, for the lady s name is
known wherever the English language is spoken...
A lady’s theatre hat which shuts up is advertised.
A woman who will also shut up, to accompany the
hat, is now badly wanted.... The Christian
Union says it knows of a man who has given up
his seat in a tram-car 59 times during the year to
ladies everyone of whom thanked him. it is truiy
deplorable C the absorbing love these
naners have for picturesque fiction..... A. man
wrot'J to Labouchere, M P •jr* 1 Y 7 x t he
Radica*. Does your definition of the term agree
with mine ? ‘ Radical’: Take away the letter®
‘ liar ’ and you are left with cad. A Radica ,
therefore is composed of a liar and a cad. ....it
having been romoured in Paris some time since
that Cora Pearl was dead, a reporter went to her
hotel to inciuire. Hearing the reason of his visit,
Cora) whotiadnot then risen, sent him a message
asserting the fact of her existence. aad a, card,
with the Scriptural reference, . M *rk v,j i„ orin ih ®
verse reads, “ The damsel is not dead but sleepeth.
A cvnical bachelor’s refiaction, “ Every bride is
beautiful. Then where in thunder do all the very
plain marrie l women come from ? ... One tentn
Sf the Panama Canal has now been eompleted at a
cost of £24.000.000 of money and th.ee years ot
time. This is about the biggest job ever under-
taken.. Another rich English clergy man has died,
leaving £120,000 to his poor— brother... . Does
death end all ? ” Alas, no; there is the monument-
subscription fund 54 per cent, of the children
porn i" Lima Peru are ‘illegitimate. The most
ftbient poverty prevails. The whole population Is
100 000, P but the P Bubscrlption S for, churches, con-
vents. &o, are enormous. Priests swarm every-
where.
Disfiguring Humors,
eyes, seal! head, dandruff, tnfwgfeor birth
hnmnrft and every SPCCIeS 01 ItCQingTf soaiy*
pimoly,’ scrofulous an f.
nf the skin and scalp, with loss of hair, areposi
tively cured by BBSOLvaNT iuter-
nally, and Cuticdka and Cuticuba Soap ex
ternaily, when all other methods fall.
If troubled with business cares and oyer-
work, indulge in Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Balmy sleep, good digestion, rich blood,
elastic step and cheerfulness in American Co. s
Hop Bitters. Read and believe
Wolfe's Schnapps, the purest, safest, and
best article of its kind in use. a
THE TURF .
[FOR THE NULLETIN.]
I sing the turf, of many a lay the theme,
The field of many a plot and artful scheme;
Bearing, of countless flying feet, the dint,
For blacklegs, sharpers, welshers. goldeu saint.
Here, he, who’d shine among his hook-nosed peers
Must—tis the custom—trudge the streets for years;
And havirg won his spurs by hawking fish,
His voice discordant as his friends can wish,
Cold-blooded as his finny friends, for gold
His every scruple unto Satan sold;
As scaly as the serpent who betrayed.
In Eden’s garden the too-trustful maid;
Enveloped by an ancient fish-like smell,
Blended with sniffs of sulphur from, Ah! well.
When he’s considered “ all round rather smart,”
He takes to Randwick and eschews the Mart.
Then decked in shiny hat and tailor suit,
With glossy, tightly-fitting, “ordered” boot,
A race-glass pendant from his ample chest,
A full-blown red rose rampant on his breast,
A good cigar stuck ’tween his pursy lips,
“ Cad ” graven on him to the finger tips,
Joining the brotherhood of “ do and done,”
He holds his book and yells his “two to one;”
Low down before him bow the long-lost tribes,
Still lower bend the weak-spined sporting scribes.
> ■ •
Look round, before you lies the well-planned
course,
Girt by the crowd, and guarded by the force;
Flap o’er your head, to every air unfurled,
The gorgeous standards of the Christian world—
In vain you look for that of famed Paul Jones,
Appropriate, surely, death’s head and crossed
bones;
Suoh downright declarations now don't pay,
Land-pirates move In less pretentious way.
Seek now the lawn and thread the careless crowd,
Some in their dress and gestures overloud—
A bar of music strikes upon the ear,
“ That band again,” you groan, “ what, even here i
By goes a banker, sowing his wild thyme,
With one eye on a more salubrious clime,
Like unto many a hard-mouthed, bead-strong colt.
Prepared is he at all times for a bolt.
There stands a youth who s eased his master s till,
Up to the ears In debt, yet hopeful still.
Intending to replace all on the morrow—
Now building Spanish Castles through this borrow.
There lounges he, whom sports niokname Fly-
On three hairs rakishly sits perched his hat—
Tight-trousered, from one eye he knowing peeps,
His monthly screw laid out in bets and sweeps.
• o ■
Tinkles the second bell, wakes, stir, and hum,
out from the saddling-yard, the horses come.
They take their opening canter up the straight;
While heavy bettors pant to know their fate.
Now picking out a horse, who, in your eyes,
Eclipses all for blood, condition, size, .
You'd baok him, but your Mentor says, What rot,
Jack Hooligan is up, you’d better not,
No stable-money’s on, I tell you straight.
Be merely starts to-day to get off weight.
Surprised; you question him, and forthwith flna
One-half the owners merely run to blind.
But now the horses reach the starting-post
At d stand arrayed in line a gallant host.
They’re off l false start, all curse the stupid starter
Who’d need the patience of an old-time martyr,
To give an even start, when ’tis designed
That certain horses must be left behind.
At length he gets them off amid much swearing
While nervous meu their scanty locks are tearing;
Sail swiftly by the stand the gallant troop,
Head close to head, and straining croup to croup;
The jackets bright, the caps, that top each head,
Bob, like a gorgeous, wind-stirred, tulip-bed;
They pass the Btand, and round the corner brush.
One trips and o’er him half-a-dozen crush;
“ Three horses down,-joy 1 but one jockey
’Tis Snipe, a horsemaE, young, and lar from
skilled,” . . .
Bah I one beginner never will be missed.
Wipe up his blood with a subscription-list;
On witn the race, let speed be unconfined,
The devil take the -lying, those behind;
Off on a hurdle bear the senseless clay,
Don’t let such trifles mar this cloudless day;
’Tis hut a jock, perobance a widow s son.
But generous “Jackson,” “Mo” wont see ner
With sprat, to catch a mackerel, they’ll angle
And raise enough to buy a patent mangle;
Gone is the mother’s pride, her only hope,
But fortunes lurk in washing-tubs and soap:
So bear the body to the dead-house near.
Off with your hats, boys, give a rousing ebeer
For the proud winner now returns to scale.
Shark's won a thousand, Flounder fears a jail;
No matter, few oan win, though many lose,
For one who smiles, a hundred have the blues.
Quiok cover that crushed face, that jacket gay,
He died to grace a Sydney holiday,
And Mr. Rub-em-down has In his booth
Room for another, short-lived, stunted youth.
* * *
Let pettifogging rascals fill our jails. _ ,
A racing man’s the pride of New South Wales,
Housed well and feasted on the best of cheer,
He's the mosquito who stings all tne year:
The siily flats, all blistered by his bites,
Thinks his hand-shake lor every 111 requites.
A truly noble pastime this, indeed.
Its object? “To improve the equine breed;
On every corner of the globe we call,
To furnish horses speedy, riders small:
Fame’s »ur reward, for it alone we strive
Thus buzz the racing drones in social hive.
* * *
The subject, gentle reader, groweth dry;
If you are wearied by it, so am I,
Parched is the turf and sere, that lacketh rain,
My clay is baked, to irrigate, I'm fain;
So here, I quit the turf and you together,
I fly to see a man about the weather-
GEOBGE BLACK
Sydney, May, 1886.
DOCTORS
Arc getting more and more into the habit of pre-
scribing' proprietary medicines in their practice,
esDecially that known as Dr. Bell’s (Kidney and
Liven Bitters for diseases of the kidneys, liver
and bladder. They know from experience that
is of more value in such diseases than any pre-
scription they can write.
Use American Co.’s Hop Bitters onoe snd
youwiil use no other medicine. Test it. Take no
other. Be sure and read
Don’t blame the man who opens his mouth
to put his foot in it. fle may have mouths to feed,
and is, therefore, justified in feeding one of them
as economically as possible. And, by the way,
please to bear in mind that the new winter
woollens just received Irom the best British mills
are now displayed at Summerfield and Company,
Merchant Tailors, 235 and 237 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Turning round King-street into George-
street, last week, my attention was attracted by a
crowd gazing into a crockery shop opposite the
Joint titock Bank. Waiting my turn for a peep I
wondered at the eagerness sbo *n by the onlookers,
for all I could see were a few cups, cLhes, and
lamps, and such-like things. Present y I got
nearer, and I then saw a silver centre piece with a
very large and handsome glass dish, on tae top of
which there was another glass nearly filled with
water, and some china juveniles almost nude
floating with impunity. Often things novel and
beautiful there arrest attention.*


SOCIAL
If you want to get on in “sassiety” ia
Sydney, you must have two names—that is, one be-
longing to you, and one tnat may or may not, just
as plants have. For instance, it your real name
ia unfortunately Smith, it’s no use running on
that tichet-you Imust *put something before
It. Somelpaople add their mother’s name, and
some their grandmother s, if they happen to Know
it. One man, who is very hard pushed, has run
his mother-in-law’s name into his own. Tnis is
playing it rather low. Others again (females) pre-
fix their husbands’titles, such as “Professor,” or
even “ General.” You can do a lot on the
“ General ” prefix—it wil get you into Potts Point
and Cos. against anything. There is a very decent
old warrior whese wife was dead-set to get into
society. She had nothing against her but her
name, and only that because there was not enough
of it. As Mrs. Brown sne was nowhere, but when
on her return from Europe she came out as Mrs.
Waverley Browne, nothing could exceed the
delight of the “circle.” She became the centre
thereof, and the only thing that bothers her now
is, that poor old Brown will forget that he has
two names and a final “ e,” and mixes thiDgs a
little
* * *
Tj e’s a story of an awfully good fellow
who s somewhere in the South, and fancies
that a itLOWledge of the British peerage is of more
importance than a faith in Holy Writ. If you
mention a lord in his hearing, he’s down on you
with his pedigree as though he (the nobleman)
were a horse. Overhearing one man say to
another, “By the way, old fellow, the Duke of
Derrlmut has arrived by the Oheron from home,”
he was not to Jbeicornered. “ I knew, you know,
that he was coming, for I received a letter last
week from his uncle, old Lord Lonsdale, to tell
me to look out for him.” One fellow looked at the
other fellow and then went off into the wildest
convulsions, and well they might, for the Duke
of Derriinuc was a prize bull, lately Imported.
* • *
We see it stated in the papers that Stuart
Cumberland wrote the “ Rabbi s Curse.” Before
we knew this we had read the book, and the
Rabbi’s curse was nothing to ours. We strongly
recommend Mr. Cumberland to confiae himself to
reading other people’s thoughts, and not writing
his own.
■ * *
We are glad to hear tint Mr. Ford, the
well-known senior clerk in the N S.vv. Public
Works Department, is up and about again. He
wants a change. No good killing off good men.
The Civil Service hasn’t too many; you can count
them all on a handful of thumbs.
* * *
We don’t often mention the Church, and
when we do we mention it with the respect it de-
serves. If we have any interest in the business it
is in the direction of preserving its moral purity.
Therefore we just wish to hint that society par-
sons may at times go a little too far in the direc-
tion of bringing people—young and pretty people
—within the fold. The ” gathereth-her-ohicken-
under-her-wing-dodge” may be overdone. This
little parable, with its comprehensive adaptability,
is commended to the attention of a very fashion-
able gentleman of the cloth, who nas already re-
ceived several hints on the subject. Hints are apt
to hurt-when they’re at the end of a stick.
* * *
A lady of Sydney gave a ball lately, and
recounting its triumphant success to a friend said,
“ Oh, I did enjoy myself. Me and my daughters
danced the ole nigot, and there was a eap of girls
sitting round the room and couldn't get a part-
ner.” “But,” said tne friend, severely, “if I had
been hostess I would have seen that my guests
had partners before I accepted one myself.”
“ Would yer ? I wouldn’t. I like to danea and so
do my girls.” Another fact.
♦ ♦ ♦
It is stated on high authority that the
Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty have sent
Admiral Tryon instructions that he is not to per-
mit any officers under his command to marry or
become engaged to be so I Since this order became
know, naval officers, as good investments, have
fallen not only below par—but also mar and her
daughters—and naturally. For these gallant tars
had heretofore a value far beyond themselves.
They were looked upon as specially reserved to be
the husbands and lovers of our “ million dollar ”
girls. It was to them the Daring Pointers and
others looked for blood and breeding. They were
expected to supply a want long felt in the direc-
tion of an ancestry, crests, mottoes, &c.
* * * -.-i
Ladies do not now wear so much of their
hair on the crown of the head as formerly. It is
getting too expensive.
* * *
Glad to hear that the gentlemen who
rushed the railway carriage at the Rosehiil races
lately, feel great regret and promise in future to
Reform.
* * *
The following rather ambiguous an-
nouncement appears in a London paper: “ Ladies’
bustles are now worn so large that seats are being
made to fit them. ’
* * »
Round bats are worn by all young people
wishing to look “ fetching.” There is nothing
more becoming; the flowers and dainty little bows
should bear the impress of art and taste.
* * *
They must think very little in England of
Prince Louis of Battenberg, for in a London
paper we read:—“Sir Samuel and Lady Wilson
have returned from Italy to Grosvenor Square.”
That’s good alone, but immediately below we find:
—“Prince and Princess Louis of Battenberg have
arrived at Osborne from the Continent.” Things
are changed—we don’t mean for Louis, but for
Sam. Not long ago, when he lived on his lot near
Horsham (Vic.), no one took the trouble to note
that he’d got home safely after a “ breezy night.”
Even the local never mentioned when he returned
from Melbourne. But, you see, Sam. was so much
“ one of ourselves,” they didn't notice him.
* * »
It is stated that the Duke of Marlborough
is about to be married to Mrs. Sartoris, an Ameri-
can lady of great personal attractions. This peer
is the polished ruffian who so Hogged his wife that
she got a divorce from him. That was when he
was a marquis. We have not heard whether Mrs.
Sartoris is good with the gloves. Perhaps her
mother's going to live with tne “ young couple.”
• • •
This is the high-toned style English society
papers sometimes write in: “Concurrently with
the first graceful flights of returning swallows
from the sunny south, the Queen and Court have
departed thither.” Which beats our “Bee”
with ,the “beautiful shimmer of the hansom-
cab lights that fell upon the sleeping water of our
bay ”
Lisbon is looking forward to a marriage
that some dukes and looal Wilsons are getting up.
But listen: “the public fountains are to run
wine, and the poor to be feasted.” There s a coun
try to live in—where wine runs, and the poor get
a feed—once in a century I
* * *
We are told that many New Yorkers to-
day pay their cooks as much as £1(0 afyear—£2o a
month is thought little of. And vet we complain
because our hired girl, who cleans the boots and
does all the rest, can't send up a French dinner on
Its. a w eek. We have not been r easonable.
* * *
The Amalgamated Licensed Victuallers’
Association of N.S.W. gave their first concert on
Thursday last, at Rainford’s Cambridge Club
Hotel. This is the first of the series of monthly
smoking conceits, Many causes, all beyond our
own control, but intimately connected with home
rule, prevented our attending. Bat a friend went
instead. We met him to-day. He told us he was
looking for a bat big enough to put his head into.
* * *
A lovely valse, and one that should be-
come a favourite, is “ L'Amazone," by Mrs.
Vaughan Williams. It is very tlegant and pretty.
* * *
So the Duke of Abereorn has been told-
off by his friend Wales to “ look after gentlemen
from the colonies.” We always thought the
police did that. But we were wrong; it’s the
business of dukes 1
* * #
Mr. Gladstone, like Dr. Johnson, makes a
use of the table-cloth not hitherto indulged in. He
goes in for being ** abstracted" at meal times. No
matter where he is he draws out a parcel and be-
gins making elaborate notes on the white cloth.
Ali the guests watch him. He holds in his hands
the destiny of an Empire I Not a soul dare crack
a nut or a joke. Presently the G.O.M. is heard to
mutter: “ Cut the best part of it down myself—
save labour.” Great Scott I it's his own little plan-
tation he is ruminating about!
* * *
Avery read able book is “The Bostonians,”
by Henry James. But, like James’ works, it re-
quires rather too careful reading to be altogether
enjoyable. You can’t wink or nod over a page of
it or you lose the thread of the whole business. As
a novel it will probably never be very popular,
but superior minds—like ours—will enjoy it. The
book is clever, humorous, pathetic, and even
beautiful. Buy it.
* * *
Admiral Tryon’s ball, which took place on
the 25th of May, was an unqualified success—the
chief attraction, however, being the garden de-
corations, which were simply beautiful and per-
fect. Tae new idea of lighting the grounds with
oil-lamps instead of the everlasting—though
most piotureque—Chinese lanterns, was a great
achievement, and proved a pleasant and ready
subject for people to converse on. The small oil
lamps were artistically and wonderfully arranged
in designs of anchors, crowns, and stars—the
whole effect of the ligating up was admirable.
Boats were provided at the man-o’-war steps from
half-past 8. Very fortunately the rain cleared off,
but the mist which followed was unusually heavy.
M&Dy young couples made the presence of the
mist an excuse for their absence from the ball-
room. On one end of the verandah the Nelson
band was stationed, and performed inspiring
music, worthy of the reputation they hope to
gain. Another part of the verandah was enclosed,
where a substantial and good supper table was
spread. On the lawn a marquee was erected, which
setmed a most attractive place, as it was always
well patronised. The inside was carpeted and
small tables arranged about, each one being pro-
vided with light and recherchA refreshments, and
prettily ornamented with flowers and ferns. One
wondered where all the lovely plants, flowers,
ferns, &c, came from, especially the camellias,
whicn were particularly abundant. About 200
guests were present-His Excellency and Lady
Oarington came en suite about 10 o’clock. Lady
Carington entered the room with Admiral Try on,
his Excellency bringing up the rear with the Hon.
Judith Harbord. Captain Terry, Captain Gas-
coigne, Mr. WallingtoD, and Lord Bertie were also
present, as also a number of naval officers. Her
ladyship was dressed in a very becoming way
black lace and white silk, bodice ornamented with
crimson velvet bows; her hair was arranged most
tastefully, a wreath of crimson poppies adorniDg
it. Miss Harbord looked pretty in a white tulle
and satin costume; Lady Manning was attired in
pale blue merveilleux with cream lace cap; Mrs.
Barton looked stylish in a well-made gown of
black and gold; Mrs. Robilliard, very fashionable
in a cream and black toilette; the Misses Darley
wore pretty gowns of black tulle with bodices of
striped velvet, which were particularly becoming
to the figure; Miss Mllly Cox wore a tasteful frock
of black lace over white silk. Black gowns of
every description were worn, owing, no doubt, to
the unsettled state of the weather.
* * *
An engagement is announced between
Miss Tempe Earquhar, of Woollahra, and Mr.
Howard Gibson, of Sydney.
* * *
People are sorry to hear that the Hon.
Judith Harbord, who since her arrival in Sydney,
bas been sc particularly amiable and pleasant, and
has become a general favourite in social circles, is
going to leave Sydney for London some time this
month.
* * *
The marriage of the Hon. Alioe Harbord,
sister of Lady CaringtoD, took place on the 15th
April, at tne chapel in Vere-jtreet, Cavendish-
square, London. The presents received by the
bridegroom and bride, were of great beauty and
value, and included a diamond spray given by
Lady Carington. The bridegroom was the Hon.
Charles W. Mills, M.P., eldest son of Lord Hitting-
dom.
* * *
The final match of the scratch pairs in the
lawn tennis tournament left victory on the side of
N.S.W., Miss B. Metcalfe and Mr. E. Wallington
defeating Miss Scott and Mr. Louis White of Mel-
bourne.
* * *
On Monday, the 24th ult., the anniversary
of H.M. birthday was celebrated by, amongst
other amusements, a meeting of tne Sidney Turf
Club at Randwick. The military band pertormed
pretty and suitable music during the intervals.
Lord and Lady Carington arrived at 3 o’clock.
Her ladyship was attired in a blue cloth dress with
white horizontal stripes, small black bonnet to
correspond. The Hon. Judith Harbord wmre a
brown dress and dark-brown plush jacket, high
hat; Miss Maccabe was stylish in a tailor-made
gown of black and white check; Miss Beatrice
Stephen was pretty in a mauve surah drees with
dark-blue trimmings; Mrs M’Quade wore a stylish
combination of dark and pale-blue, striped velvet
bonnet to match. Witn the vice-regal party came
the Governor of New Caledonia and Madame
Nouet, who was attired in a most remarkable
costume.
* • *
Rain prevented the amateur races from
coming off at Randwick last Friday. Bat the
young mashers who had come down to ride were
not to be “ done.” Taey could be sien at the Ex-
change and clubs in breeches and boots, and spurs
—telling everyone how they could ride-and
blowing I—you could hear them above the rain and
wind.
* * *
Listen to this bosh. An English Tory
journal says—“ It will give reflected pleasure to
thousands of people who have read Mrs. Oliphant’s
novels with pleasure and profit, to hear that she
was lately presented to the Qaeen at Windsor, and
offered her Majesty a copy of her last work, wbich
was graciously accepted. In return, the Q aeen
sent Mrs. Oiiphant a copy of “ More Leaves from
a Highland Journal.” Fmoy the mind of the
grovelling wretch who would fancy Mrs. Oli-
phant’s works would be in future more readable;
but it s always the case when people of true
genius lower themselves in the manner Mrs. Oii-
phant stems to have done.
jjc ?,*
The latest freak of American girls is
cigarette smoking, in which they op inly indulge
at supper, dinner, and luncheon parties, and on
almost every occasion without the slightest
apology. Cigarette-cases are now quite as essential
to a fashionable belle Americaine as smart lingerie
and tailor-made gowns.
* * *
A well-dressed gentleman presents a note
at the bank to be changed. The cashier tells him
it is a counterfeit. He smiles and takes another
from his pooket-book. “ Hold on, here is a good
one." Ttea he adds, with charming good-nature:
“Of course it does no harm to try, you know.”
This is a French joke; but they did things very
much this way in the Melbourne express a few
nights ago. There was a card-party in full blast,
and one of the players handed a £lO note to
another for change. - Five ones were returned as
the equivalent, but to this the first player strongly
demurred. “ Oh, a ten, was it ?” asked the other,
with gay nonchalance, as he threw over five more
singles; “I beg your pardon; must apologise for
the mtstake, really.” “Don’t trouble to apolo-
gise,’' wan the calm reply; “if that trick comes off
one time in 20 it pays you well enough.” And the
libellous insinuation was taken rather as a tribute
to the smart one’s financial genius than as an in-
sult to be washed out in belud.
* * *
The second of what promise to be very
enjoyable sooials was held in Bedfern Town Hall,
last Friday evening. Danciog began at 8 o’clock
to the strairs of good music, and was kept up with
great animation until midnight, at whioh time the
happy folks began to disperse.
* * *
This happened in one of the leaiing
drapery establishments of George-street last
week. An old dame waltzed into the shop, and
enquired for something to mend a gown with. She
was shewn some material and '.picked out a piece
that suited her down to the ground. On asking the
price of a yard of it she was told that it would be
6s lid., whereupon she uttered the astounding an-
nouncement that the dress which required the
patch only cost 2j 6d. when new!
* * *
At th© amataur meeting at Randwick,
among the many attractions offered to the public
was that of seeing Lord Bertie, A D.C., ride a race.
Bertie can claim to be the first real lord that ever
rode a race on Randwick—or, we believe, in Aus-
tralia. He’s not bad at lording, but when he
rides, he’s simply immense. When he left the
saddling paddock one could clearly see that the
horse thought he was In shaft?. After a time the
fiery stead got used to that, and started for the
winnino- post with the rest. The rest got there
first. This was rough on the horse, who certainly
felt he ought to have won. So he turned round,
and away he went back to the starting post. Now
came Bertie’s chance. He had the field clear, and
the eyes of brave men and lovely women were
upon him. The blood Of about two million an-
cestors rose within him. His veins were blue with
it. The horse sped madly on. It was do or die I
Th? noble steed and the noble-man felt as one. ft
was the touch of nature- The cry rose, “ The
horse wins—the lord wins!” and it did win—for, in
spite of an heroic effort worthy of the peer’s mail
clad ancestors, the horse went round the course
and came In amidst the shrieks and laughter
of all present.
* • *
The North Shore Rowing Club ball, which
is to be ht Id in West’s Rooms, on Friday, June
llth, promises to be a .grand success. It is under
the patronage of Lord Carlngton and the Mayor
of Sydney, and that, without taking into conside-
ration the circumstance that Mr. W. H. Robey is
honorary secretary, should be good for the sale of
a few hundred tiokets.
* ♦ *
The writer of this paragraph knew two
who went down in the,ill-fated Ly-ee-Moon; Mr. W.
JohDSton and Mr. O. G. Bradley. The first named,
a medical student, who suffered from a pulmonary
affeciiom, succumbed, poor fellow, to exposure,
and died on the wrqok: Mr. Bradley, who was for
a time attached to the commercial staff of The
Bulletin, appears to have been drowned. He
was a young American, the son of very wealthy
parents, and had been much about the world.
* * *
At the Queen’s Birthday levee, at Govern-
ment House, Sydney, the double cordon— not of
the legion of honour, but of Court-costumed at-
tendants—between whom visitors to Lord Caring-
ton had to pass, excited general wonder and admi-
ration, but Jed also to some confusion, on the part
of visitors unaccustomed to such a blaze of ele-
gance. One old gentleman of bucolic tendencies,
noted for his bonhommie and bluff aess, and love
of shouting poetical extracts, was quite bewil-
dered by the array. Habited in a frock coat of
the year of Adam, with the rest of his attire to
match—his known eccentricities having always
been tolerated even at Government House on
account of his sterling honesty—he seized an out-
stretched hand, and'exclaiming in his u>ual sten-
torian voice, “How are you, Governor?” shook
it heartily. It was the hand of Baron CariDgton s
bedizened flunkey in waiting.
i ,
Avery lovely ball dress of pink satin is
veiled with pink-strip ad gauze, and the low
bodice covered with a large Louis Seize flohu, fas-
tened by BeDgal roses. This is perfection for a
pretty, fair girl, not very broad nor very tall.
•' * *
HjTbe “ Mandalay ” is a very elaborately-
braided gown, which, at a wonderfully reasonable
price, has been prepared in no less than 15 shades
of French all-wool jersey cloths. The panel on
the left of the skirt is formed of a centre of ela-
borate braiding, bordered with flat folds of the
material The drapery is pointed in the front and
drawn up high on the rigbt side. The bodice has
a prettily-braided vest, with collars and cuffs to
correspond.
* - * *
Nithsdale has seldom held a more lively
assemblage than on Tuesday, the 25th ult., when
the Cinderella Club held their first dance of this
season. There were about 150 present, and invita-
tions were so well managed that there was (if any
difference) a majority of gentlemen. Natural
flowers were very much worn, and cream was
the most favoured tint Contrary to the usual
custom, the dancing extended over th 3 Cinderella
hour.
* * *
Men are going to have a good time at balls
in Hobart, this winter, if a certain aristocratic
example is taken as a precedent. A complimen-
tary ticket was forwarded to a gentleman for sslf
ana lady. He arrived at the festive scene escorting
six of the fair sex, greatly to the dismay of the
other girls, whose chanees of playing the part of
“wall-flowers” were thereby considerably in-
creased.
* * *
The tenacity with which a colonial
“ Honourable ” clings to bis title is only equalled
by a volunteer s affectiori for his rank. When the
marksmen who are to represent Tasmania at
Wimbledon, were preparing for their departure, a
green young officer—a “native ’’—had his luggage
labelled “ Lieut. ,’’ but was saved from beiDg
the laughing-stock of the team by a friend, who
advised him to forget his lieutenancy during the
voyage, lest awkward mistakes should occur. A
few yearj since, a volunteer “Major” visiting
England retained his rank throughout his travels,
and was by :hls fellow voyageis <s a real,
bona fide military officer. When enquiry revealed
tnefact that he was a tailor from Hobart, they
were t s much disgusted as if he had been “ Me j ir *
in the Salvation Army.
* * *
A breach of promise case, set down for
hearing this month in Sydney, should if proceeded
with, which is problematical, amuse tbe town.
The plaintiff, a particularly fair Israelite, wants
£SOOO as u balm for her wounded feelings; sfce
avers in her plaint that she was “ ready and will-
ing to marry the defendant’’—only the wicked
man went and married somebody else. Whioh is
generady the way when Angelina is unusually
anxious to faU into the marital embraces of the
Edwin on whom she has set her heart. She is not
the only gir', by a hundred or two who has been
ready and waling to marry “Billy,” who has ong
been the idol of the women and the envy of the
men.
* * *
Theregntfca ball, at Maryborough (Q.), on
the 24th May, was not an unmixed success There
were 50 gentlemen present, and only 24 ladies.
During the pauses in the music some of the
spinsters informed their partners that Miriam s
terpsichorean powers have been dreadfully over-
rated by the scribes of the period. A charming
study in p'nk was very like the belle.
(Continued on next page.)
B RADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB’
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY :
SPRING and O'CONNELL STREETS.
Full suites for dining-room.—side.
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, • COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. i m
fg
Sideboards of modern
designs and various dimen-
sions, in OAK, MAHOGANY,
WALNUT, ASH, and CEDAR.
A large selection, at all
prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITS}®', Fashionably Up
holstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
a
£* Q f? PIANOFORTE,
guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable,
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brilliant
tone, in handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &e. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell and
Spring Streets.
sdf
WALNUT FALL-
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, Ruler and Pen Racks,
and revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacle for
Stamps. Outside Drawers divided into campart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell and Spring
Streets.
CHIFFONIER WHATNOTS, effective designs.
Large choice. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
gsd
Drawing room cabi-
nets, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
Drawing-room occasional chairs.—
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s. 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
W[ ALN U T REVOLVING
BOOKSTANDS, 2,3, and 4-
tier —a desideratum for the Barris-
ter’s Chamber, Judicial Bench,
Library, Drawing-room, or even the
Bedroom. Very handy—especially
so for the Invalid Reader.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Ijl ASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
U rooms. New designs covered to order in
any material.
fg
R
EVOLVING SHOW
STANDS,
for the advantageous display of
fancy goods,
Light and Strong.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
s
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH, for
' INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
| > OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
lAj ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
sd
Bedsteads, an sizes,
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets,
BEDDING. —All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMR.
gdf
PATENT SANITARY
SPIRAL SPRING or
ELASTIC WOVEN WIRE
MATTRASSES.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 10s.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, fi’om 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3105.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d,;
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.


A disoussion is raging in the “
of the Canterbury (N.Z) Times as to Whether ft
man should be allowed to smoke In his own nouse
or be oompalled to walk out to a club or pubiUs
house. After returning from either we tmna ne
will please himself.
* Of- *
The long-talked of Albury bachelors’ ball
passed off with much eclat on Friday last,whic
Summation must have been very gratifying to
hoflta aftfir th.e “ wars and rumours or wars
SttSftrtSr weeks* ®The arrangements were
perfect-floor, music, and supper Buperb. ' There
costumes were worn, and three charmicgly Iresh
and pretty debutantes graced tne proceedings.
* * *
There is a lot of trouble about the Consuls
in Sydney. He of Bungaroohte wante the compfl-
ment of a free pass all over the N.S.W. lines, ana
it is riftrklv hinted that a war will follow tne re
fusal of this favour. Other troubles arise from
the fact that some of the consuls engage in trade,
and dabble in vulgar insurance business while
others do not; and this, we are told, is the reason
why there were vacant chairs at the consular
banquet last week.
* * *
The N.8.W. Thistle Club give a ball at the
S5“SS& T&SS.”iiSSi"S i»t
the way. It is stated that Mr. Gray, one of the
principal officers of the Sydney Soattish, who 1b
?ft. 6in. high, is gradually being measured for his
martial toggery.
* * *
So Colonel Craigie-Halket has turned up
. n London. He seems to have been in great form
at the recent N.Q. Separation meeting.
* * •
More A.D.C.s for the “suit.” We regret
to hoar /for his own sake and ours) that Mr.
all the A.D.C.s ?
* * *
Mr W. H. Brodribb, M.L.C., quietly
breathed his last on Miy 31. Some yeais ago,
when living at Buokhurst, Double Bay, he and
Mrs. Brodribb entertained largely, lneir weeaiy
dances were charming gatherings. Mr Brodribb
was a kind and genial host, a goed friend, ana a
generous man.
* * *
The Brisbane publio have the reputation
of being able to appreciate anything f good in the
musical line; andso they do, if they cm get it for
nothing. An excellent hand discourses delightful
music in a beautiful park there on Saturday after-
noons One Saturday recently several hundreds
of neople enjoyed these above-mentioned luxuries,
and @ the bandmaster thinking it an excellent
chance to test the generosity of tbese music
loving people, stuck up a collection-box m a con_
aninnnus Dlaoe. After blowing their instruments
inside out for a solid three bourB. the piayers in-
spected their money-box, with the intention or
Hividinff tliQ anoil. After removing upper
strata ot buttons, matches, and other articles, they
found the munificent sum of threepence.
* * *
Brown fricassee of rabbit. — Take a y° u °?
rabbit which has been cleaned and washed well,
cut it in pieces, put them in a cloth to dry, put a
bit of butter in a frying-pan and fry them, of a
light brown. Then trim them nicely; nut theml into
a stew-pan with a little light-brown sauoe; stew
them trently for half-an-hour. squeeze in a little
lemon-juice, and season it with pepper and salt
and a little cayenne. Every patriotic Australian
should eat rabbits and help the Act along.
***
The first of the St Kilda socials is to take
place at Balmain School of Arts, on Friday,> 4th.
lost .The Botany Social and Rinkiog Club com-
menced their season’s festivities last Friday even-
fancy ilresa ball in aid of the looal hospital fundi,
was held at Emmavilie on Queen s birtnight.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Dr. Sehwarsbach’s Ball, Need’s Rooms ... June 3.
Glebe Rowing Club Ball, Sydney Town
jj a ]| Jllll9 4*
First St. Kiida Social, iiiimain School of
J UQ6 4
North Shore R.C. Annual Ball, West's
Rooms June ii.
Wreck of the Ly-ce-Moon.
All Australia fey this time is ia possession
of the details of that terrible disas er whiohloat
the s.s Lv-ee-Moon to the A.S N. Co., and 70 use-
ful lives to the community. It is a sal story.
Sadder, too, because those who are saved ere
nearly all strong men and sailors who would stac d
the best chanco of surviving the terrible dangers
of the situation. Only one instance of
self-sacrificing gallantry is recorded, and that ha
for its hero Mr. Fotheringham, the third mate ot
the steamer, who seems to have been in charge
when the vessel struck. He risked his life to save
one woman, but the elements foiled the attempt.
It is not now to the purpose to attempt
to investigate the cause of- the calamity—
to say which offioer, if any, was liable
for the disaster. All that will b 9 proved
by the evidence in approaehing enquiries. But
there is one matter we may safely touch, and tha
is the homicidal blundering of the authorities
for it is telegraphed: “ There were no rockets or
life-saving apparatus except ropts at the iig' -
house.” So while every succeeding wave bore the
death-warrant of another victim, tte men on
Shore were for long prevented from achieving
what should have been, with ordinary appliances-
the easiest of tasks. When the history of the
wreok is written, this one feature, adding a
horror for which nothiDg in the elements was re
sponsible, must be prominently noticed.
Newest Invention.— Greatest Novelty.
THE Y s N patent
DIAGONAL seam
's^ssa^«asffs^'sw«ssa
comfort. Guaranteed wear.
CUUliwi u* _ , ,
, ValUf csavs-— A nbvel invention in Corsets admirably calculated to
£ the very disagreeable occurrence of split seams The cut is very
goocf and becoming, add may be adapted to any figure with advantage.
o j i. mafprifl
000. cillU. UCWUiiuoi * .- .
__ ~ ___ Ta . “ Corsets are a new departure. The material is
The OjjWSl a(1 the component parts being also arranged diagonally,
cut on thecrossanatne cop admirably modelled, exquisitely neat
the seams have no iney are Qf wort hless imitations,
and strong, and the workmanship all that could te i 6> ” itl oval.
E LwZelSl MiSl 1« Goto Mkdat., HIGHEST AWARD for Corsets, London
Ladies’ Outfitters in the United Kingdom and Colonies.
SI
kjTCRIeK ..
%> T)ecoXAT'ior)j..
"'lRos.e.wWotf
KH)
US-J 3
rr
m
wo/m*2j£
JSk
. jJ|
KOYA.L rURNISHING ARCADE,
426 GEORGE .STREET (neit.to the Royal Hotel.)
Prosecute the Swindlers !!
If when you call for American Hop Bitters
(see green t wig of Hops on the white label and
Dr. Soule's name blown in each bottle) the
vendor hands out anything but American
Hop Bitters, refuse it and shun that vendor
as you would a viper ; and if he has taken
your money for anything else indict him
for the fraud, and sue him for damages for
the swindle, and we will reward you liber-
ally for the cmviotion.
“ I Have Suffered.
With every disease imaginable for the last
three years. Our
Druggist, T. J. Anderson, reoommending
“Hop Bitters ” to me,
I used two bottles !
Am entirely cured and heartily recom-
mend Hop Bitters to every one.
J. D. Walker, Buckner, Mo.
„ the
greatest crimes againt the business ©f any
country and in many casts—
‘ Destructive of health and life !
It proves beyond a doubt the
“Superiority”— .
Of the article counterfeitea , . ,
As no inferior article is ever counterfeited
Proof ot this is found in the great number
in
“Australia, England, France, ~
“Germany, India, Belgium, Canada and the
counterfeits of the great remedy,
Whose name and merits are so well known
the world over that it is a
“Shining mark and favorite prey
“ For counterfeiters ! !!”
Beware of ail that does not have a green
cluster of hops on the white label.
Prosecute the Swindlers !!
t<> v,An vnu call for American Hop Bitters (see
nveen. twia of Hops on the white label and Dr Soule s
viotion.
ATKINSON’S pnu
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others forits lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Medals--
PATHS,IB7B; CALCUTTA,IBB4,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
ESSENCE OF WHITE ROSE
odour
Atkinson's celebrated
EAU DE COLOGNE,
Unsurpassed for its streng^h^tnddeUghtful
'’'SpoundVsoW 1 S the same name
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers-
J & E, ATKINSON,
04 Old Bond Street, London
Trade Mark-“ White Rose" 011“ Golden
I.yre
sd
4 GUARANTEE with
J\ each pipe for real
Meerschaum and
Amber.
Fire-proof Briars. Repairs, &c.
S. ROSENTHAL, Fipemaket,
1 Little Collins-street, East, Melbourne.
Illustrated Catalogues on application
iXtalWCo,^
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
commission
SAMS of HOBSW^^RsTamPcATTM
BUI jS?ssffl^sswaM»
TION YARDS.
Office— l7s CASTLERE A.GH STREET.
OUR VICTOR BICYCLE.
BENNETT * WOOD. 68 Klng-staeet.
-VOR VICTOR EXCELSIOR BICYCLE has ft chjMe ß HMrileß)ai\ 0 TbPfoltowiDg ?arts'are highly
I ftACK Forkß, E iptical Backbone, Detachable Handle and all back Forks Btcp, Cranks, and
: 'PKI°CEf , CO U MPLET a E -IS? 1 lOs!’ P ' Cat this advertisement out when^makingapplloajon^
3dals: PRICE, :=— '
and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
IPVIMG GEAR. Brass & Mickel-platoit SHOP PROMTS,
IIVI "7dx®“" “ d House Sanitary Ware, Pig and SBeet Lead, Spelter, *c
r Brass -*£*£?£&
. 3r?74Sf?SS». '‘VACUUM” WATBR-WABTB
BOULTON’S “FLUSH-OUT, van &o.
; o f e Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Am Propellers Exhaust Fan
9 Cowls. Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 848 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
irn ii Tvartinnlars and nriee on application.
fgďsfg
The LOUIS’
VELVETEEN.
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would rum real velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes and
• -If i*c tv
times tne piK;e. ~
VelvS 1
toS purposes in which Silk Velvet
may be used we specially recommend
the "LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of “ Louis.”
May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
'send patterns
POST FREE OH
application.
V.


.V
LIMITED,
356 George-stroat,
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
PIANOS, ORGANS
and
M U BJ C
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EAST TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues & Prices on Application.
W.H. PALING & Co.
BS6 George-street, Sydney.
The New Furniture and
Carpet Warehouse.
fa, Lira Ik, & Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
AT
Less than English Prices.
EIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
With three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING ROOMS,
At th« Exceedingly Low Price of £S 15s
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER SUITES,
At Correspondiogly Low Prices,
Furniture for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY,
THE DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING-ROOM.
I BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEADS,
in Great Variety.
JONES, LAWBON~ BROS., Sc GO.
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
D* RIDGE S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND-
Never Travel Without It.
Wanted in Svery House-
RUSES
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS,
ALL N OXIOUS
FLEAS, FLIES BEETLES MOSaU ITOES.
COCKROACHESSf:H£ c AND IS
AT TH£ SAME TIME QUITE
HARM LESS TO BIRDS DOGS,
FOWLS OROTHErJ
ANIMALS
3
0 s
I*
cl
dgf
df
vrn
m
Wanted in Eve ry Souse.
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
(Established 1860),
AUCTIONEER, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
tioneer lor Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &c.. from the Southern
Colonies or New Zealand, may be made to Arthur
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
ATora-lxa-m’s
Fills
The Great Liver Remedy.
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form cl
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys,
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
dgf
TRADE MARK-“TONIC NERVINE.”
ciiSR'TAIN, & BREEDY (JURIS tor Ner-
yous and General Debility, and all complaint*
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
&e. By ita tonic and soothing efifeots it at once
removes all craving for Alcohol. By its richness
in phosphorous ana other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, TONIC NERVINE nour-
ishes and gives vigour t* the whole system.
Price, ts. 6d., or 25a. a case. Sold everywhere.
Proprietors. MARSHALL BROTHERS. Registered
Chemists. 1016 Markht-st,, Sydney. N.B.—All imi-
tations illegal. TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
WILLIAM BULLARD’B GREAT SALE OF
MUSIC, STATIONERY, and FANCY
GOODS. Expiration of Leese, and Condemnation
of Premises. Continued Great Sale of Music,
Stationery Books, Fancy Goods, including the
most extraordinary collection of the choicest
Japanese Works of Arts, Plaques, Bowls, CloisoDni
Vases, &0,, the whole of which must be cleared
out. Discount 25 ner cent, reduction on the old
prices Music.—Thirty shillings worth of m sic at
the old prices can now be had for One Pound. This
grand stock comprises, amongst other items,
Sheet Music, Songs, Solos, and Duets
Piano Pieces, Solos, and Duets, and all the newest
and most popular Dance Music
Church Music. Anthems, Psalters, Servfces, &o.
Part Music. Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &o
Orchestral and Braes Band Music, in variety
Book Music-all the most popular works
BOOKS oemprise every kind of Literature—Pre-
sentation Volumes, in prose and verse ; Books,
suitable for prizes for boys and girls; Nautical
orks, Books on Engineering and Surveying,
Dictionaries, &o ; and a choice library of Reli-
gious works, by standard authors.
JAPANESE BRONZES. Wall Hangings. Em-
broideries. Vases, Plaques, Fans, Ash Trays,
and Tea Trays
PHOTO. ALBUMS in Plush, Morocco, Leather,
and Calf, profusely illustrated, all sizes, at
wonderfully low prices
ACCOUNT BOOKS, Ledgers, Day and Cash Books;
Press Copying Books in every style and bind-
ing, or made to order
LETTER PAPER. Envelopes, the cheapest in
Sydney. Samples and prices may be obtained
on application.
HANDBAGS. Purses, Card Cases, Photo. Frames,
of every kind and description
ARTISTS’ MATERIALS-Solid Sketch Blocks.
Drawing Copies, Paint Boxes, Mathematical
Instruments, &o.
Music Catalogues gratis on application.
Goods forwarded onreceipt of money order or
postage stamps.
WILLIAM BIILLARDp
842 GEORGE STREET.
A Blessing in every Family.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world
where the healing virtues of these grand medi-
cines have not been recognised by thousands of
sufferers.
In all the ordinary ailments of humanity their
beneficent action is at once recognised.
Fullest directions are supplied for their use in
every disease.
IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxfokd-bt., London.
Purchasers should look to the Label on the
Boxes and Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-
street, Loudon, they are spurious.
GOOD NEWS FOR THE MUBIC
LOVINGJHIBLIC.
A BRANCH OF THE
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
DIP EC T SUPPLY ASSOCIATION
ft NOW OPBN at
674 GEORGE-BT., SYDNEY,
With the Largest Stock of Musical Instruments in
the Southern Hem'spbere,
AT LONDON PRIC SS, SO per cent. less than
tydney prices,
Direct from the European manufacturers to
the Australian consumer.
4/«, 5/6, 1/6, 9/6, 12/6, l*/6, 21/-, 25/. 80/.
45/, to £2©.
Speciality: The German-Anglo, in wood box, 21/-
„ Ditto, superior, with steel notes, 35/*
■a
m
gM£HS!!
ACCORDIANB •*»/«. 10/6 12/6 15/, 17 6.
HUuUfiUlHIw, 21/-. *s'-, 30/-, 40/-, to £6
Sp°ciality : The m'niature Melodian, 21/-.
Ditto, oak, with steel notes, 42/-.
10/6. 15/-. 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O
Speciality: Old Copy Violin, with case, bow and
inetruction book, 35/-.
CORNETS, at 4# -' s ®7i , *®*
Specialities: Ihe new “Levy” model,
Ihe new “ Levy
with water key £5 5 0
The new “ Reynolds” model,
with double water key .. 910 0
The rew “ Reynolds" Echo-
attachment Cornet .. 12 10 0
Frem 1/6 to £lO.
About 100 varieties in s f cck.
Speciality: The 8 key Cocoa D Conceit Flute,
with slide-bead, ia erse, by
Le t English maker 60/-
THE SYHPHONETTE!
In nickel silver, with six tunes, 30/-.
Extra fuses, 1/- each.
From 5/6 each to £lO.
The “ Walter Howard” American Niokel Banjo-
£3 3s.
Brasa and Drum and F.fe Bands furnished
throughout. Nigger Minstrel Troupes fitted out.
Clarionets, Violin Strings and Fittings, PJegeolets,
Drums. Guitars, Harmonicons, Tambourine?,
and, in fact, an assortment of every cltss
of Musical Instrument, from a
Jn’sikjitgaMOrgu
MUSIC! MUSIC 1 MUSIC 1
200,000 cop!e3 New and Popular Mu#ic, published
at 3/-, 4/-, and 5/-, sold at 91. per copy.
£5 Worth of Music for £ll
Ail instruments carefully packed and forwarded
to any part of the colonies.
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
Manages.
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
Her Majesty the Queen,
H.R.H. ihs Prince of Wales.
H.M. the Krng of the Netherlands.
HI
iK
iiifi
mmiß
Agents for New South Wales
HJ.M. the Czar of Russia.
TRAPP & ELLES,
54 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
RAW VASELINE,
"'f:
Vit
A
TilOßSoftening and Preserving Horses’ Hoofs
Kills parasites, and prevents their growth.
As a Leather Preservative it is invaluable —pre-
vents it cracking, and renders it waterproof.
Jrroin its anti-corrosive qualities, uneqalled as a
metal protector, and for keeping in perfect order
Firearms. Machines, &o. It is the sole material
used for the above purposes in the Austrian and
German armies. Sold by all Saddlers and Store-
keepers.
SOLE AGENTS;
BLACKBURN A CO..
WHOLESALE SADDLERS’ IRONMONGERS,
12S Tork-street, Sydney.
•W THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED^
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT on
flx f^rSl?E o . B iJl for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT.
andUPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £6O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
J. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
PATENT
PILLS.
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headaehe, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &c. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
done it in thousands of cases. Every suffered ia
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For femafes of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few dos'es of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEECHAM’S
PILLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the system. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
al-1 ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
gffiicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints., Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Beecham’s
Cough Piles a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be
removed.
Caution-.— The public are requested to notice that
the words “ Beecham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they .are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. l|d. and 2s. 9d.
each.—Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
full directions are given with each box,


df
Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
Ho
m
Scrofula on Neck-.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old agp, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cutic-ura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,.
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Ski-n and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
tssacl
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
ENTLEMEN’B CLOTHES REPAIRED
AND CLEANED
AT
130 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Near Market-Btreet.
G
Nervous debility cured.—l maD-
hood restored without consulting a medical
man. A Medical Treatise by an eminent Era b
hospital physician and Parisian specialist, cental
ing a simple and positive self-cure, sent post free
for six penny stamps. Address: HOPE, P. 0., Box
766, Sydney.
MALTINE.
MALTED BARLEY, WHEAT AND OATS.
The only Extract of Malt containing these three cereals.
One Bottle of Maltine is equal (in digestive power) to from 3 to 5 bottles
of any extract of Malt in the Market.
Digestive value 80 times its own weight.
“Wheat and Oats are especially rich in muscular ancl fat producing
elements. —Liebeg.”
Maltine will increase both the weight a*nd f sh in most persons of thin habit.
Highly recommended for delicate fern les, weak and debilitated
children and infants, and for mot .ers whilst nursing.
Is very palatable and will be readily taken by the youngest child.
Maltine is invaluable in cases of Consumption, Wasting Diseases, Nervous
Debility, &c., Indigestion, Constipation, and convalescence from Illness.
Prescribed and Recommended by all the leading Physicians and used in the largest
Hospitals. Analysed and approved by the most prominent Chemists of Europe.
Maltine with Pepsine and Pancreatine is the best remedy known
for Dyspepsia, Cholera Infantum, and all diseases resulting from imperfect
® digestion. There are few cases that will not readily yield to this preparation.
Maltine with Hypophosphites is most valuable in cases of Consump-
tion, Rickets, 'Softening of the Bones, and Neuralgia.
Malto Yerbine is the most effective remedy for Bronchitis, Coughs,
Colds, and difficult Expectoration.
Maltine with Cod Liver Oil, an agreeable and effective mode of adminis-
tering Cod Liver Oil.
Maltine with Iron and Quinine, or Iron, Quinine and Strych-
nine a most powerful and nutritive tonic for General Debility, &c.
Maltine with Phosphorus Compound is especially adapted for all
overworked brains and those of sedentary habits, suffering from General
Lassitude.
Maltine with Alteratives is a remedy of the highest value in all depraved
conditions of the blood, Scrofula, &c,
SOLO BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIMITED, LONDON.
i
(CONCENTRATED BEEF, WHEAT, AND MILK).
Containing 95 per Cent, ol nutritious matter. There is nothing to equal
it as a flesh-former, fat and bone producer. Pleasant in odour
andtaste to the most delicate persons.
It is invaluable in eases of Convalescence from all diseases, Pulmonary
affections, Fevers, Pneumonia, Weak Digestion, Gastritis, and all
Stomach Ailments, Dyspepsia, Diarrhoea, Dysentery and all Intestinal
Diseases, Phthisis, Cholera Infantum, Marasmus, Vomiting in Pregnancy,
Sea Sickness, Diabetes, Excessive use of Alcoholic Stimulants, and in
debility resulting from any cause.
Also a valuable adjunct in voyages and camp life. It will build up the system
after severe prostration.
It contains all of the valuable constituents of Beef, Wheat, and Milk.
Being in the form of a dry powder it will keep in any climate.
A few spoonfuls equal to a hearty meal, and being partially digested,
makes but little demand upon the digestive powers.
It possesses 60 times more nutritive substance than Beef Tea, Mutton
or Chicken Broth made in the ordinary manner.
One ounce Of Beef Peptonoids contains more nourishment than five
pints of beef tea prepared from eighty ounces of beef.
It contains ten times more nutritive matter than Liebig’s Extract of Beef,
or similar productions.
' Prescribed and recommended by all leading Physicians, and used in the
largest hospitals. Analysed and approved by the most eminent chemists in Europe.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
TEE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIM., LONDON.
PAUL LIEBE
UNLIKE OTHERS
DOES NOT
w
w
tO*
dfg
INI0&200Z BOT s
WHOLESALE AGEMT
c^sTdne^s.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL pre-
serves, strengthens, and heautides the hair : it
contains no iead or mineral ingredients, and can
now he also had in a golden colour, which is
especially suited for fair or golden-haired children
and persons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a most
cooling, healing, and refreshing wash for the face,
hands and arms, and is perfectly free from any
mineral or metallic admixtures; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &e.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE
produces immediately a perfect change in red or
grey hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a glossy and
permanent brown or black, which colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bros.,
. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
QPHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND
SYDNEY BRANCHES:
64 PITT-STREET, and 638 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 676,000
This Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish t®
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. pei
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E. Prosser
and Co-, Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge: Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
J. BUTTERFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
Street, Redfern.
CONTINUED SUCCESS
or
RILEY BROTHERS’
ORIGINAL
£5
PACKED in and INSURED against
mr Carriage paid by mail all over the colonies
by Coach. Railway, or Steamer.
The £5 Bale system has been in operation for 12
years, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe,
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
AS LADY’S BALB.
8 Ladies’ Chemises
“pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
of good longcloth, and
nicely trimmed. If de-
sired, other articles may
be ordered instead of
any of the above.
£1 MOURNING BALE.
35 yds. Blk. French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 doz. Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
GLOVBB.
On receipt of 3s. in
stamps, we send, post
free, a pair of 2 or 4-
button kid or silk Gloves
any size or colour, good
quality and fashionable.
For accouchements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Robe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £5.
158.
We send, carriage free,
a Lady’s New Accouche-
ment Belt for fifteen
shillings, or a pair of best
Nursing Stays for ten
shillings.
DRESSMAKING,
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials-Silks, Velvets, &c.—with
instruction for self-measurement,
RILEY BKOTHBRB,
165 Oxford Street, Sydney.
Originators of the celebrated 45 Bales of Drapery
PROVIDENCE
Helps those who help themselves. Nature has provided
harwi foTlhe cure of 'hUinan 4 «4|«nentB, and 'medipal
sofenoo has discovered their healing pojvers, ana tht)
proper combinations neee'saafy to conquer
file result of those discoveries and oombmatrons Is—
Dr. BELL'S BITTERS.
For many years it has been tested in severe cases of
Kidney and liver Diseases, Mal£ri&,vDyspepsia, In-
digestion, Weakness, Lassitude, &e., and kivarfaljjy It
has given relief and cure. Thousands of testimonials
have been given, ‘ and is most popular where best
known. 1
DAILY AND HOURLY EVENTS.
.Head «o/»«.,The stomach is disordered. Cleanse
and - settle it with Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
Indigestion. —Start the Seeretions ol the Stomach
With Dr. Bell’s Bittess.
Jaundice.— Blood poisoned by Bile. Correot the
JJtVer by using'Dr. Bell’s Bittej^.
Doss of Appetite.—The Stomach is failing. First
Cleanse it; then tone*with Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
Torpidity.— lnaction of Liver. Start it tip with
fir. Bell's Bitters.
ifauooa— Reaotion of Bile. Correot Stomach and
Jgvei with fir. Kell’ B Bisters.
Malaria— Poison In the Blood, Purify by starting
this Liver with Dr- Bell’s Bitters.
Nervousness. —Deranged Stomach Function. Cor.
toot and. tone with Dr. Bell’s fitters.
Nioht Sweats. - Weakness. Strengthen and tons
the system With Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
edldne.
Ntoß.—Any poor Person, or the Manager of any
pital, Asylum, or Sid People’s v .obtain
fitters, gratuitously, upon written application’.to
its, accompanied by a certificate o; a Minister
iSpel, certifying that they are unable to pay
HELL'S BITTERS
Manufacturing Company,
XlftW VOBK, liONVOH, CAKADA,
, mw cbadanod a Australia,
BUTCHER, FEHON & CO., Sydney
ASBNTS FOR
H«w South Wales and Queensland.
Sfltieol®
ESSKNOEorLWEI
'pe ordy infaTlibfe remedy fcr
4> JjebiLijyT
THERE are many men in this colony who ara,
day by day, melancholy, miserable, and a
burden to themselves, through early indiscretion
or over-indulgence. It is to those that this adver-
tisement is addressed. Impotence drags its victim
in its unhappy train through years of suffering,
rendering his existence a misery. He sees hra
fellow beings hale, hearty, and vigorous—in the
full enjoyment of manhood’s greatest privilege -
and naturally becomes despondent, seeking soli-
tariness, and shunning society generally.
He is lured into trying some of the So-called
Remedies, but without avail, and imagines he
must go down to the grave a hopeless invalid. If
such be your calamity, know that your case can
be relieved and a Cure effected by a simple course
of this Invaluable Medicine, which will, in tie
short space of Four Weeks, render you capable
of appreciating and Enioying Lite.
This valuable remedy affords relief, and penma-
nently cures all who suffer from Wasting and
Withering of the Nervous and Muscular Tissues,
Spermatorrhoea, and all Urinary Deposits, which
cause incapacity and degeneracy, total and partial
prostration, and every other exhaustive derange-
ment of the system—regenerating all the im-
portant elements of the human frame, and en-
abling man to fulfil his most sacred obligations.
The directions are very simple, and require no
restraint or hindrance from business. Pamphlets
enclosed in each case with testimonials.
In cases at 125., or four quantities in one, for 365.;
if by coach, 2s. 6d. extra. City and suburbs free.
Agents for Sydney :
Messrs. W. BARCLAY & .CO.,
43 Goulburn Street,
One door from George Street, South.
Parcels, packed securely, and free from obser-
vation, sent to any part of the colony on receipt
of Notes, Post Office Order, or Postage Stamps,
with the greatest promptitude.
NOIILTONS
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTONS
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and ne
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Frwt-J.
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be,
Sold Everywhere, Price la. 3d.
0. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor,
PILLS


THE ANGELIC TOM.
This ia not about Tom Slattery. Tom wants no-
thing from us; for with the irresistible force of
liish genius he has already rounded the post of
this generation, and is tearing up the straight of
Immortality amid the plaudits of shouting pos
terity. We deal rather with a man of the time,
or rather with the life achievements of a man
whom Mr. Pecoi, of Rome, Italy, and others, com-
mend to the world as the true guide in a sceptical
age. Mr. Peoci has written a letter in Latin to Mr.
Moran, of Sydney, and other Australian bishops,
in reply to one which they sent, detailing the re-
sults of the Sydney Plenary Council of 1885. We
translate a passage which appears to have escaped
the eagle eye of the daily Press, every editor of
which is a dab at Latin. Mr. Pecci, it may be re-
marked, is an amiable scholarly old Italian gen-
tleman, who, a few years ago, was fallible, but
who has now, by the votes of a number of other
Italian gentlemen, been raised to a position of in-
fallibility, and sits at the head of a great church,
whose very existence is threatened by Pastor
Allen, Peter Campbell, and Mr. Picton. He says:
“ The resolution which we understand you have
adopted, of conforming the study of the sciences to
the system of St. Thomas Aquinas, is particularly
acceptable and grateful to us. So salutary, indeed,
and so well selected is the doctrine of this holy and
gifted man, that it seems impossible that the
Christian name could anywhere be more flourish-
ing than where there are great numbers who
have drawn deeply from the wisdom of the angelic
doctor.”
Now, Thomas, we’ll trouble you to turn over in
your grave for a moment. 1 homas was born about
1326 (660 years ago), in Italy, learnt to read and
write in a Benedictine monastery, was so sharp
that his teachers egged him on to study theology,
much against the wishes of his parents. At IT he
went to the University of Naples, where he bur.
rowed in such mouldy learning as he could dig
out of the Fathers, and when about 20 he was sent
to Cologne to benefit by the discourses of Albertus
Magnus, a mighty man in his day. Then he went
to Paris and peeled off for the dispute which
then agitated the world, and all but knocked
the earth out of its orbit—the question whither
the begging Friars should have the monopoly of
University teaohing, or whether others equally
learned, but not given to begging, should have a
show. Tom sided with the beggars, and male out
such a splendid case for them that his fame spread
over the world. His argument was not cabled to
Rome for the obvious reason that the church had
not yet turned its motherly attention to tele-
graphy, so Thomas was summoned to state his
case before the Pope. He made out so good a
claim for friars who prefer passing round the hat to
pulling a cross-cut saw or loading coal, that he
was thanked and blessed. Owing to the depression
of trade or a desire to have a dispute with the
English priests, he went to London at the age of
37 and entered a Dominican, convent instead of
joining the ranks of the unemployed. After eight
or nine years he started to attend a great oouncil
then being held in Lyons, but died on the way.
at the age of 48. In 28 years he wrote about 50
books which are preserved, and about 5000 pam-
phlets on the squabbles of th@ time. And then he
died. Now for Mr. Peeci's scientific guide and hi s
system. Tom knew absolutely nothing of the
construction of the universe, as it Is now known
to every schoolboy. He has not said a single new
thing or said an old one in a way that a tenth-rate
scientist or logician could not say better to-day.
His “ system ” of getting at truth was a system
of hair-splitting about word). He was what they
called a great philosopher in those days, but nowa-
days ho would figure as an intellectual contor-
tionist. He believed the earth was flat as a pancake
and could prove it from Scripture. He believed
in witchcraft, and was no mean louch at casting
out; devils. His whole fame now rests on his
faculty of microscopically minute investigations
into the puerile nonsense of his age, and the ar-
guments and fierce disquisitions which rent a
barbarous age are, like himself, long since gone
into oblivion. His “system," which Mr. Pecci
recommends, is the barrenest ever known. He
was learned in what every modern priest has
quietly unlearned, and if Mr. Pecci cm find no
other grounds for congratulating the clergy of
this country than that their scientific researches
are followed up on the system of the “ angelic ”
doctor, as the church calls him, it is not to be
wondered at if a man living in this age turns away
with contempt from the miserable maunderings
which some of the clergy dole out as science. For
the convenience of our readers who want to get
thoroughly imbued with this indispensable system
of study, we may mention that Tom’s works were
published in Venice in 28 vols. qto. in 1635-88 but
we have forgotten the name of the bookseller. It
wouldn’t matter, anyhow, as he has very likely
removed into more commodious premises by this
time.
Mr. Chas. H. Topham, so long connected
with the Town and Country Journal in the
capacity of travelling artist and correspondent,
has, we hear, deserted the ranks of j mrnalism and
gone into commerce, he and Mr. Walter Hope, of
Bonnyrigg, having started business In Pitt-street
as general merchants and commission agents.
The London and Colonial Engineering Co.,
for whom Messrs. D. and W. Robertson are the
Sydney agents, have just burst upon a waiting
world with a catalogue of machinery which is in
itself a marvel of gorgeousness. There is yet one
thing needful to the complete success of the pub-
lication. It should contain some sparkles of
humour. But, after all, it is, perhaps, better as it
is. Humour and an absorbing desire to meet the
world on a 20s. in the £ basis were ever incompati-
ble. iThe catalogue is a brilliant affair, anyhow.
The latest gallant exploit of the British
army has its locale in Burmah, where the Madras
cavalry recently charged four “ rebel" regiments,
butchering 60 of the enemy, wounding 20 more,
and capturing 13 prisoners, and all this without
having a single wounded man in their own ranks,
'lhis is variously described by the home papers as
“ a gallant charge," “ a brilliant skirmish," and a
“ gallant cavalry attaek.” “ Successful butchery
of helpless patriots ’’ would more nearly describe
the affair. There were only 60 of the lancers,
therefore they killed on the average one man
each. Such magnificent dacoit-sticking sport
could not have been obtained without the penalty
of some casualty, had the enemy not been com-
pletely helpless, and capable of being ridden down
with impunity. The colonel reports that the
cavalry “ behaved with much spirit,’’afact clearly
shown by the murder-list, for while these noble
warriors “ with much spirit ” and enjoyment
were prodding the life out of 60 of the other side,
they only wounded 20 and captured 13. And
“rebels,” too. How nicely the word fits I These
murdered savages were fighting against the in-
vaders of their country. How then were they
“ rebels ? ” But it was ever thus. Arabi Bey, the
Egyptian patriot, was a "rebel.” So were the
Soudanese, when “struggling, and rightly strug-
gling, to be free.”
When a Scotchman attempts a joke it is
apt to have serious consequences, as one found to
his cost in Tasmania lately. He, with his wife and
two small children, occupied a house in the most
lonely part of the Lake district, the next neigh-
bour being 10 miles distant One morning he left
home after telling his wife that he would be
detained by business for several days, and giving
her elaborate instructions concerning locks and
bars during his absence. Late that night the wife
was aroused by a terrific knocking at the door and
a strange voice roughly demanding admittance
This being refused, abusive la guage was used
and threats that drove the woman nearly frantic
with terror. Taking a loaded gun, she pointed it
in the direction of the voice and gave the besieger
three seconds to depart. Then he sad, “ Don't be a
fool, Jeannle; it is I—your husband.” She instantly
realised that he had disguised his voice to frighten
her, and determining to revenge herself, pre-
tended to doubt his identity aud refused to admit
him. After many ineffectual attempts to gala his
“ain fireside,” he was obliged to spend the night
in an outhouse without even a " wee drap ” of
Royal Blend, while a piercing wind nearly froze
the marrow in his bones. It was his first and last
practical joke. Which reminds us of a N.B.W
judge who, one night in the dim long ago, followed
the housema’d of an hotel downstairs and along
the hall, she letting him out by the back-door and
staying inside the house, to his intense disap-
pointment, herself. It was a beastly cold night,
and a robe-de-nuit is a poor protection against tne
westerly winds that rage in those parts. Besidis
it is an undignified dress for a judge to go roaming
around a country town with in search oi a night s
lodging.
The Father off N.S.W. Statesmanship:
HIS PRESENT POLITICAL ATTITUDE.
Make it a rule to drink Wolfe’s Schnapps. It cre-
ates no false appetite, but has an invigorating effect.
Premier ball-room decorators of New
South Wales. Sale and Dare, decorators. Ball
and banquet rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral deoorations, 6014 Hunter-street
Sydney.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps promotes assimilation of
the food.
The system is strengthened and the nerves toned
by the use of Wolfe’s Schnapps.
THE
GRAVE
OHEATING
HOW LIVES ARE SAVED.
ECHOES FROM PEOPLE
YOU KNOW.
LUMBAGO.
“ Carcoar.
“I bad been suffering from Lumbago for some
time, but found instant relief in wearing Dr.
Scott’s Electric Belt.
“JEREMIAH SMITH.”
RHEUMATISM.
“ 45 Harrington-strest,
“Sydney.
“ I suffered acutely from defective circulation
and severe rheumatic pains, following an attack of
rheumatic fever. Since wearing Dr. Scott’s Elec-
tric Belt, night and day, I am quite another man,
and honestly recommend them.
“SAML. RANKEN.”
TOOTACHE.
“ Burraga, N.S.W.
‘ I suffered considerably from toothache before I
used Dr. Scott’s Electric Tooth Brush, but have
never bad it once since.
“JOHN PASCOE.”
AN EDITRESS ON CORSETS.
“Silver Press, Sunny Corner.
“ Dr. Scott’s Electric Corsets fit moat admirably
and are most comfortable. The soothing influence
of the electricity is remarkable, and I strongly ad-
vise all ladies of literary taste to wear them.
“AGNES E. M’DONALD.”
ON THE CLARENCE
“ Uimarra.
“ Dr. Scott’s Electric Corsets give great satisfac-
tion.
“A. CUKREY.”
m
mM
NOTE.
The following names are selected from the 10,000
who have been pleased to record their gratitude
and confidence in the
CURATIVE
PROPERTIES
of
D*. SCOTT’S
ELECTRIC
APPLIANCES.
The original testimonials are on file at the offices
of this Association in
London, New York, and Sydney,
AUSTRALASIA.
Wm. Webb, Esq., Campbelltown Herald
J. Carter, Esq.. Surveyor, Narrabri
Carl Leo Poh, Invereil
W. Brown, Bourke
E. R. Shone, Esq., Architect, Walgett
W. J. Stewart, Esq., Conargo
Mr. Geo. Atkinson, Hay
T Goodwin, Esq., Essex House, Tanmangaroo
Mrs J. Hallam, Warialda
Mr. J S. Alexander, Bexhill, N.S.W.
Mrr. C Couglhan, Cootamundra
Mr. Geo. Dell, Reedy Flat, Adelong
R. R. Tnompson, Esq.. Walgett
Mr. J. w esterweller, Boggabri
Mrs Viles, Gulgong
Mr. T. Palmer, Orauge
™>r. V O’Gorman, Tarwong Station
Mr. E. Lorraine, Ironbarks
Mr. Wm. Mitchell, Bega
Mr. J. J. Pugh, Tambar Springs, Gunnedah
Jas. Doyle, Esq , Pitt-street
Mr. E Linton, Wee Waa
Mr. J. J. Pasooe, Ravenswood, Q.
Mrs M. C ’Ok, Nuvertire
Mr. W. M. Milner, Wafalabo, Gunnedah
Mr. Jno Hszlewood, Palmer Island
Mr. M Harnett, Nerang, Q.
Mr, T. H Hutton, Claredun, N.S.W.
Mr. Jaa. Brown, jun., Murray-street, Hamilton
Mr. Oswald lugham, North Junee
Mr. A. M Phail. Hay, N.S.W.
Mbs Clara BatteD, Dungaree
Mr. T. Pinder, Aramac Station, N.Q.
Mr. D. M'Donaid. Foxlove, Queanbeyan
Mr. W. D. Wright, auctioneer, Narrabri
Mr. J J. Markrow, Rockhampton, Q.
Mr. H Thomas, B N & W., Newcastle
Mr. Jno Heap, Goulburn
Mr. W. Newly n, Fort Gray, Wilcannia
Mr. Geo Barry, Moon bar. Jmdalbyne
Mrs. S. Jordan, Tabuiam, N.S.W.
Mr. N. Hinze, Peak Downs, N.Q,
Mr. T Cra*ford, Yero g ( reek, N.S W„ -
Mr. W. Csrberry, ? taames Park, Sock
Mr. T. D Green, Mt. Hone, N. 3 W.
Mr. A. Falconer, Junee J auction.
These goods ara sent out in a haudsome box, ac-
companied by a silver-plated compass, by which
the Electric-Magnetic influence can be tested. If
you cannot get them ia your town, we will send
either kind to any port or railway station in New
South Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d. added; or will mail direct to
aDy address upon receipt of stamps to cover post-
age.
The prices are as follows:
A Corsets 15/- B Corsets 10/8
C Corsets 8/6 D Corsets 6/6
Abdominal Corsets 15/- Nursing Corsets, 8/8
Electric Belt, ISA-
GENERAL APPLIANCES.
No. 1 Hair Brush ... 5/- so. 3 Hair Brugh ... 7/8
No. 8 Hair Brush ... a; i M o 4 H ir Brush ... H/6
No. 5 Hair Brush ... 13/d Fw:.a Uru k 18/6
Tooth Brush 8/0 Curlew... 2/6
Insoles 2/B,
All Chemists or Druggists, or direct post free,
one shilling extra.
Military Hair Brushes, Dr. Scott’s Electric, pair
in leather case, handsome goods, 30/- ier set. Post
free, £llBs. 6d.
Dr. Scott's Electric Horse Brush, for lameness
and stiffness In horses, £1 la. Post free, £l3s. 6d.
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION, 54
MAKGARET-STREET, SYDNEY. P.0.80x321.


T//
Mai
•It
*e«t faTourlte bran*
tob?, S>« bteiriS^ 4 great care from tae
!BBSS36rVbfemSMS
® S> , * 8H *PSL^ D Io * OOMPANI
**▼« Opened «
Br anoh dipot
**' 88 Royal Arcade,
MU* they supply
ftrir **• ~
by ‘s^ ch, °Mer.nu y be lett fO , dellTery
taken over the Agency for
in pulmo-
ood and fce Co '' Lm,ud '
•» U ** •••a Harbour-etreel
7 *“ Liverpool-atreet.
••• Mittagong.
Sa o®UBßf
**TRa BUPBKFINB
'SK® 3 s be -
VI C tO H T » NTBBI) VBRY GOOD.
- ‘«u„ 4 r Ji oua 0ua mill
__*n»#-atreet, Sydney.
WHBAT
moat approve!
ry.
i QUALITY
X
SINGER
and Co.’s
Bicycles
Am)
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap.
JOHN BANKS,
SYDNEY.
bj SHOE DEALERS, GROCERS ecJ
dfg
mmv
■ BLD IEIUBIE
Peerless
A necessity in every
It blacks and
polishes Ladies’ and
Children’s Boots,
£ toos, Bobbers and
Satchels, wit boot
brushing. Always
gives satisfaction j|
is conceded to fci
he Stamms
Coit5: WA Y & SONS,
S|r§fit, Bostoh
MASS., U.8.A.
|K"« S^
Fa cturing
: %j
hatters
* M | I
GE sy E street
r D N E1VT
V
t^i^ALLACE,
. / fl . ry of
Hercantilt and
m iram
Th following goods
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Com Paint, la.
Asiatlo Liniment, 3a.
That Modern Appetiser—The Australian Relish—la
A. Boyer’s Baking Powder (free from alum), 6d.
Page’s Custard Powder, 4 In box, Is.—makes two
quarts fine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linotus, for ooughs. Is.
Clayton’s Nervine, for toothache and cold In the
gums. Is.
Dr. Barbarossa’s Cantharides and Russian Bear’s
Grease Oil, for covering bald patches and pro-
ducing whiskers, 2s. 6d.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & C 0
177, 268 and 266 PITT STREET.
HE
R2MINGTON
TYPE-WRITER.
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY, EASE,
COKVBNESNCE, ECONOMY.
I W THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER saves
labour, stationery, and time, writing muob
faster than expert penmen,japd condensing matter
to less than one-half the spaee ocoupied by pen
writing. Beautiful copies may be taken m the
usual manner In the letter-press. Merchants,
bankers, solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors,
reporters, and ail men of business should use the
type-writer, and save much valuable time.
Bold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMKAY and 00«
410 Eent-street.
D. MITCHELL & CO.,
WHOLESALE GROCERS,
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS, AND
GENERAL IMPORTERS,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WE issue a price list on the first of every
month, which is forwarded gratis to store-
keepers throughout the colony, and as we import
everything direct, wc are enabled to give lowest
quotations. It will bo found a useful guide for
people about to start in business, as stocks can be
made up from £5O and upwards. Our New Season
Teas, ex Killarney, can be strongly recommended
for strength and flavour, more especially especially
the PARAGON MIXTURE, in packets, already
so favourably known, and which is protected
from fraud by registration.
STOREY, NOBLE & CO.,
AUCTIONEERS,
General Commission Agents, &c.,
CORAKI, RICHMOND RIVER N. S. W.
fo Weak, Nervous Invalids, and Others Seekirg
Health, Strength, and Energy.
DR. RICHARDS, |K£c o l“fa*
DESIRES to inform sufferers of both sexes that he
has permanently established himself in Sydney,
and may in future be consulted at hi* rooms, No. n
Spring SSceet, FREE OF CHARGE by sufferers of
both sexes from Nerveus and Physical Debility, Ex-
hausted Vitality, Premature Decay, Pains in the Back,
Head or Chest, &c., &c.
Z Cure every case undertaken.
When 1 say I Cure, I do not mean merely stop them
for a time and then have them return again : I mean
a radical cure, I have made nervous and private dis-
eases a life-long study, and can safely warrant a cure
m every case undertaken after a personal consultation.
Many persons, from the effects of youthful impru-
dence, have brought about a state of weakness that has
reduced the general system so much as to induce al-
most every other disease, and the real cause of this
disease scarcely ever being suspected, they have been
doctored for everything but the right one. Notwith-
standing the many valuable remedies that medical sci-
ence has produced for the relief of this class of patient,
none of the ordinary modes of treatment effect a cure.
During my extensive hospital and private practice in
England, I have discovered new and concentrated re-
medies, and with the use of my extensive Galvanic
Appliances I am in a position to guarantee a cure in
every case undertaken,
Consultation costs nothing, and I will tell yon at
once whether your case is curable or not.
DR. RICHARDS, M.R.C.S., ENC.,
JffO. *7 SPRING- ST., (off Pitt-street north,)
SYDNEY.
Try POGONOWSKI
FOR
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS
The Largest Assortment in the Colonic
705 GEORGE STREET.
Send for Price List.
DB. BOYD,
POMEROY CHAMBERS. 39 CABTLKREAGH-S1
(Upstairs),
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
Registered Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours: ,
10 aon. to 4 p.m. only.
Deformities Nervous, and Female Disease* a
Specialty,
BOX UO 6UP*O*
dfg
Barry’s Tri opherous.
Guaranteed to make the
ha grow on bald heads, to
eradicate scurf and dan-
druff, and remove all im-
purities from the scaip. It
positively prevents the hair
from falling out or turning
gray, and in every case
makes it thick, soft, glossy,
and abundant.
BARRY’S
FLORIDA WATER.
The Original and the Best.
The only perfume in the
world that has received the
endorsement of a Govern-
ment. JPut up in three sizes.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
S. Hoffmang and Co.
ARTIFICIALTEETH
rOMPLETESFT
V -?tR &Lolv e >l
u>?
a
MARSHALL BRO!
DENTISTS
133 ELIZABETH ST
roY..r,» ! wO
1
o
v 5 yVx&ip
C l o ts V 5O r
ir.
THE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY
(ESTABLISHED 1869).
Paid-up Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund, £156,000,
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C.
General Manager: I Secretary:
F. A. A. Wilson. I Hector Allon.
Branches : Haymarket, Pyrmont, Rodfem, Gogford, Nyn-
gan, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonard’s, Newcastle,
and Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
London Bankers: The National Provincial Bank of
England!
|\HB BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
* SYDNEY BRANCHES :
84 PITT-STREET, and 638 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund .. .. ». 636,000
This Bank has Agents In all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills colleoted on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.
dfgdf
df
v
Messrs. S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Agents.
HODINI. Punmaker,
BEGS to announce to his patrons and the public
that he has recpivpd, by late arrivals, one of
the largest and best selections of
FIREARMS
seen in Sydney. The latest improvements in
Breach and Muzzle-loading nuns, Rifles,
&c. Agent for the following celebrated London
Manufacturers : T Purdy and Sons, John Rigby
and Co, Joseph Lang aDd Son. Chas. Osborne and
Co., T Bland and Son ; also, Bussey and Co., who
manufacture all kinds of Sportsmen’s Require-
ments for the field. A large assortment of other
celebrated makers’ stock on hand from Webey,
Riley, Scott, &o, and the best Continental and
American makers. A choice and complete stock
of Cutlery. Field and Marine G lasses, and Sports-
men’s Supplies in general. Repairs promptly
executed by skillful workmen, and all goods will
be faithfully guaranteed at
602 Georgre-st., Brickfield Hilt, Sydney.
Inspection Invited. Price List on application
MEDICIWE
Prepared from Pure Drugs and Chemicals by
qualified Chemists in the scientific manner
to ensure the best action,
FOR N-OTHIUG
is more essential to enable doctors to make quick
cures, therefore we only employ qualified assist-
ants with diploma in our establishments, and
supply everything of the best quality at
the lowest prices.
T. JONES & CO..
DISPENIING CHEMISTS,
63 Market- st., between Pitt and George streets.
Branch Houses:—Crown-street Tram Terminus,
Surry Hills; and Suva. Fiji.
Anything you Require from Sydney
FORWARDED at
COST PRICE.
RO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, forwarded free of all
charges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
Jib T. Hints & Co.,
90 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.I.W.
MANHOOD RESTOREDi
A Clergyman having tried every known remed>
for the CURE of NERVOUS EXHAUSTION
PREMATURE. DECAY &C., has at last dis-
covered a simple SELF-CURE, which, for the sake
of suffering hnmanity, he will send FREE the Pre-
scription which CURED him. Address with self-
addressed envelope- QR. A. CLARKE,
Box 292, G. P. 0., Sydney.
DR. THOMAS, o£ 203 Elizabcth-street, be-
tween Park and Bathurst Streets, has
passed the Royal College of Surgeons of England,
and is the Only medical man advertising in Aus-
tralia who has passed the Royal College of
Physicians of England.
Consult him for the best and safest treatment
on nervous debility, skin, contagious, and blood
diseases.
Sg-'.Tae
SutENSLAND
i ASTHMA,CHI T IS, C OUGHS
] ?ng Z\ M 4
DR. O COlTIsrELD,
52 Cactlereagh Street,
IST.S.W.
A REGULAR GRADUATE in nil the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S.W., whose
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all private cases, Ch ron ic,
nervous, skin and special diseases,,
DR. O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent by post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is Lankly stated. Especial attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or lndiilgeqce,
producing some of the following effects: —Ner-
vousness, Debility, Dimness/ of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples on the Face, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of Pleasure in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Pains in the Back, Stunted Development, Ac., nre
treated with unparalleled succoss. Cures por-
Symptom list free, and medicines sent by post.
Skin Diseases, Itching, Burning, Scaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptions
of evqry kind, from whatever cause, promptly cured.
It is self-evident that a physician paying particular attention to a class of cases attains great skill,
and physicians in regular practice ail over the country knowing this, frequently recommend coses to
this oldest office in Australia, where every known appliance is resorted to, and the proved good
remedies of all ages and countries are used. On account of the groat number of oases applying, the
charges are kept low—often lower than is demanded by others. If you secure the skill, and get a
speedy i>'~ A perfect life dure, that is the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free. Call on or
adta ' DOCTOR JT. O CONNELL,
52 Castlereaifli Street (ground floor), Sydney,
SH
H
V^W//////j7J.Wii
V.f


THOS. GAUNT,
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, and OPTICIAN,
Manufacturer of Turret docks, Prize Cups, Optical and Surveying instruments, Ac-
count's Special Silver Hunting English Lever Watch, strong dust-proof cases, warranted a most correct and
timekeeper. Post free on receipt of P. 0.0. for 6 guineas. A select stock of Gold and Diamond Jewellery.
J3T PRICE LISTS FREE ON APPLICATION.
CALLAGHAN.
Caterer and Confectioner,
SP4 GEORGE STREET.
mr WEDDINGS. BALLB, PICNIC®, AND PAKTIBB A SPECIALITY.
107 Fitt-street, n
CATERER AND CONFECTION®®'
LUNCHEO"* **D FQOM9 FOR
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
J. S. FEY & SON'S, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“An ordinary Cup oontalns more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.—LakolT.
»
MASON BROTHERS
sdfgsdfgsdfgs
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent Street,
Sydney,
Mere always in STOCK, for BAU
to the TRADE and WHOLE*
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
GLASS. CHINA*
in
EARTHENWA 8 A
WINES, BEERS, Aim SPIRITS
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SON
Old Highland Whisky*
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac,
J. T. GA YEN’S
Schnapps and Genoa.
A. MELVIN and SONS'
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
UNDER THE PATRONAGE OF HIS EXCEL-
LENCY LORD CARRINGTON.
SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
JUST ARRIVED, ex "Maselllia,” 13 Cases of
the
Finest Egyptian Cigarettes,
specially selected by Mr. Noake on his tonr to
Europe, and being a thorough connoisseur in
Cigarettes, he reeommende them to his patrons as
being of the finest quality made.
Also, a large shipment of the world-renowned
“ Spiller’s,”
whose reputation is universally known by the
smokers of the first quality of cigarettes.
TO BE HAD ONLY AT
J. NOAKE’S EBT BUSHMENTS
320 and 446 George-st.,
AND
Pall Mall, Hunter-street.
ft
OO
c
60
JDO
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguish Wilson’s Ame-
rican “Extra Toast ’’BISCUITS. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and incomparible
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
T 4 Strssax Brai*r.' SYDmrr.
BUDGBREE ! BUDGEREE 11
Trade
CL.
Mark.
WO MORE FEVER. „
The BUDGEREE DISINFECTANT is the most wonderful Germ-KUi flll
destroyer known. No household should be without it, as j
y smells arising from closets, bad drams, &o. Sold at all chemi*
Depot: JAS. C. STEEL, Bullatin-lana, Lower r,, V>'
MDSIO SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO Hint MAJESTY THL «
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W-’
Alan, at London, Mayenoe, Paris, and Brussels.
r LA&GH T STOCK IN THE COl .o***
A
3
KtlXtli 800 ALH.
jriBBT AWAKD, GOLD MEDAL.
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
bottlmgor Bass Ait nave oDtamea ior Messrs,
ftobert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
3eer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
ohoieest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALB. which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—KElGWlN and
HARBTON, Sole Agents
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AM)
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WAHJLimm BROTHERS
AFTER BEFORS
Copyrighted,
iioustacho m wm Wrs.
Boyd* 8 Beard Elixir did this
| and will do it on either bald
head or bare face- forces
heavy Moustache in from ? to
4 weeks and never fails.? o,ooo *
-- - young men already wear full
beards , having used Ito 3 pkts. Ao injury, easily applied, certain
in effect. Packets, Is. Qd. each, 3 for 3*. (id., post paid, sent under
cover, free from observation. Address. Frank Douglas, Sole Agent,
linx rM. <}. P. 0., Syrh,' U . rf S. H'
tEFCma Aflfcrt
Copyrighted .
COOLALTA WINES.
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX,
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 George-street
(Beneath Paling'*.)
mHE highest point of perfection
X factureof StTTltf 8 „*<
Gentlemen s *r*Js»
having been reached by our ® el^g r g
prepared to supply our Cu6to Z 0 s
made of any material, cut on
principle, „„ rT SA S?
GUARANTEEING PBBFBCI $
COMFORT. be «t w
and as we use materials of the ▼ geC ur e '
durability and good value are a
debney * I'
13 HUNTER
A. A.
SYDNEY.
Manufactory
Great eastern condJ- ,
are prepared to J® 0 *
they may be favoured with, on , rn ilf!U s
To arrive—l6o Cases INDI^'
consisting of Chutney. qpxtZupZf.
all the well-known bran n( j f®j ftQgV
tins and bottles ; Plckle^, jfl jj.ac *
Preserves, Jellies. e y P& w
Curry and Mulligatawney to
Duck, &o. ftddr®**
Letters and orders to be
manager, T vTmtfß S 2*
31 and 33 HUNTED w
£3.
LATI ROWLANDS * LKWIS.
Raaolastarer of all kinds off JEratod Waters, Cordials, and "titters, and Proprietor off
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, iuMI at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. t
' the Only Goto Medal for /Era ted and Mineral Wafers; $/*#, another Gold Medal for Liqueur*,
