

BULLETIN
Vol 3 -No. 138-New Series.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 2, 1886.
7rloa~6d.
A Democratic View.
The Bulletin .
SATURDAY, JANUARY 2, 1886.
We look upon the appointment of Lord
Carington to the Governorship of New
South Wales as an unfortunate one. We
say so with the full knowledge that what is
vaguely known as “ public opinion ” is
directly opposed to us. It is scarcely neces-
sary to explain that our objection is based
entirely on public grounds. With his Lord-
ship personally we have no fault to find—a
fact which, no doubt, he will be very pleased
to hear. We know so little of him, and ar e
so unlikely to know muoh, that the idea of
personal like* or dislikes may be at once dis-
missed. By all accounts he is an English,
man of high rank, good report and breed
ing, fair presence, pleasing address, muoh
amiability, and large fortune. But it is just
because he possesses all these enviable gifts
and accomplishments that, paradoxical as it
seems, we wish he had not come among us
in the highest offioial capacity. For, over
colonists—especially prosperous ones—who
do not know what an aristocracy of birth
really means, who do not reooguise that
Australia’s true destiny is ultimately to go
alone, his presence will throw a glamour
whioh will prevent them from seeing that,
all the world over, old social distinctions are
giving place to new, old political faiths pass-
ing into the limbo of exploded fallacies.
This is the mischief. In growing Democra-
cies particularly, anything which fosters
the belief that distinction of any description
is the natural and just reward of the acci-
dent of birth is noxious. It was to teach
the vain men who judge of a person’s worth
by the crosses, stars, ribbons, or titles he
bears, that their day was past, in one part
of the world at least, that the famous Article
1, seotion9: “No titles of nobility shall be
granted by the Doited States; and no per-
son holding any offioe of profit or trust under
them shall, without the oonseutof Congress,
acoept of any title of any kind whatever from
King, Prince, or any foreign State,” was in-
serted in the American Constitution.
• • •
Without her commerce England would be
kt most but a third-rate Power, with a
population probably less than half that of
her present one. Barter is her very life. Yet
such are the prejudices engendered by oen-
turies of arrogance on the one band, and of
slavish submission on the other, that British
monarchs still, we believe, refuse to receive
“tradesmen.” They take their money, it is
true, and, with it, manage to make life fairly
enjoyable. Bat having seoured the money,
the ruler desires no further acquaintance
with the trader or his wife—unless, indeed,
the latter is fair, and the monarch masculine
and gallant. In fact, some lasting friend-
ships of all-round agreeableness, honourable
alike to both parties, have, before now, re-
sulted from such a combination of circum-
stances. Female rulers, too, have, in times
gone by, oome down from their serene
height to hearken to the voice of the
obarmer. As a rule, however, the ordinary
British monarch looked upon the ordinary
British merohant as a oreature too con-
temptible for recognition. The trader ac-
cepted the situation, and, shading his eyes
the while, looked up to the ruler as a being
of a different order—one entirely removed
from the passions and struggles of meaner
mortals. Nor was it the chief alone that the
average Briton reverenced. The aristocracy
oame in for a large share of homage. The
clever people composing this fortunate
class, aided by priests and lawyers, sue- j
ceded in persuading poor Bull that
monarchy and its handmaiden, aristocracy,
were ordained of God—that even in Heaven
there were angels and archangels, cherubs
and seraphs, although some slight disagree-
ment existed as to the precise duties apper-
taining to the different celestial orders. It
is only lately that it has begun to dawn on
the sturdy Anglo-Saxon that—
“ Aristocracy has epeatually ruined every
nation which has tolerated it, and there are many
signs that England is not to esoape the common
fate. Already we are notoriously behind the age
in many respects. . . . Our kings and peers—
they are both in the same boat—inherit power
over their fellows, not because they are wiser and
better than the multitude, but because they have,
or are supposed to have, a certain pedigree like a
prize ox or stallion. Englishmen are ruled, not
by rational but by animal succession; and,
strange to say, while all the world wonders and
M. HENRI KOWALSKI.
jeers, we go on pluming ourselves on this very
peculiar institution.”
* * *
It is because we would not have take
firm root in Australia, the feelings towards
throne and nobility entertained, even up to
the pr4toont, by vast masses of Englishmen,
that we regret Lord Cabington’s appoint-
ment. It may be said that there is little
danger of their doing so—that the roots of
Democracy have struck too deep into this
Southern soil to be readily disturbed. It is
pleasant to think so. It should always be
remembered, however, that no country m
the world has been cursed with more servile
annalists than England; that for centuries
this hireling brood have vied with each
| other in impiously attributing to a divine
I source institutions which were based on
fraud and cradled in rapine—institutions
which were slowly tapping the nation’s
vitality. The result is that the ordinary
colonist is apt to take them at their word.
He does not trouble his head to inquire
into the real facts of the case. He has not
to support fair-spoken ecclesiastics unless
he likes, nor see his hard-earned money go to
swell the vulgar pomp;of drones whose wifes
would not touch him, or his, with the handle
of their fans. He therefore imbibes a senti-
mental admiration for institutions whose
bright side only is presented to him. So,
when a representative of that class which
has done so much to make Englishmen
ridiculous in the world’s eyes comes to rule
him, our colonist is dazzled—forgetting that
an individual may be estimable while the
order to which he belongs is hurtful
and out of harmony with the times.
Then appears the yearning for marks of
distinction, social precedence, trumpeiy
titles and all the draff by means of
which insignifioant men endeavour to
secure a passing notoriety. There is little
doubt that, but for the admirable provision
in Article 1., Bection 9, of the American
Constitution to which we have referred,
there would not be a saloon-keeper in the
“Bowery,” or a “Mugwump” west of the
Rocky Mountains who would not be
plastered with stars and bandaged with
variegated ribbons, even if he had to go to
the Sandwich Islands to obtain them from
the monarch of that progressive people.
* * *
It is a uggestive fact that the journals
and the persons who were loudest in their
demonstrations of delight at Lord Caring-
ton’s appointment, were the very ones who,
at the beginning of the year, bubbled over
with enthusiasm at the prospect of being
accepted as apprentices in the butchering
line. The sense of freedom and of what is
humorously called “British fair-play”
possessed by those patriots was well shown
at t he preliminary meeting to discuss the Sou-
dan business. One confiding Sydney citizen,
it will be remembered, did not think that
the necessity for going some thousands of
miles to cut the throats of people with
whom you have had no quarrel, was to be
found in the New Testament. H© even
doubted whether such conduct was neces-
sary for salvation. He rose to say so, but
his speech is still unfinished. There was a
struggle, a whizz, a missing orator, and a
well-bred silence on the part of his sup-
porters, which showed that most men are
open to conviction if they are only pro-
perly approached. Suppose that the people
who, on that night, carried out the
resolution, and threw out the oppo-
sition, heard that Mr. Joseph Cham-
berlain instead of Lord Cabington
had been appointed to New South Wales, is
it doing them an injustice to suppose that
their transports would be less demonstra-
tive? Yet there oan be no question that,
politically, the member for Birmingham is
considerably the abler man, and that he is
quite as presentable, if not quite so rich. But
the fact of his being a plain “ Mister ” would
destroy bis chance of popularity among the
cultivated. Persons unworthy to unloose
the latchets of his shoes would delioately
allude to him as the “ Brummagem sorew-
maker,” good enough, perhaps, to shape the
destinies of an Empire, but not sufficiently
chic to give tone to Sydney society. It i 8
against this spirit we protest, and this is the
very spirit that is likely to, fungus-like
flourish under the Carington regime. In
this sense our previous Governor was pre-
ferable to our present one. He was with us,
it is true, but not of us. Advanced in years,
avoiding rather than seeking popularity,
and bred in a school which made no affecta-
tion of sympathy with Democracy—whioh
tolerated rather than loved it—his presence
did something at least to wean the people of
New youth Wales from that stupid social
idol dry to which his successor’s advent has
given a fresh fillip.
• * *
Still, it is the political side of the matter
that is the more important. At all the ban-
quets given to the British generals who
commanded in Egypt and the Soudan, the
guests, when returning thanks, invariably
referred to the services of the Colonial Con-
tingent, and having with fine irony praised
the discipline of the corps, congratulated
England on having tapped a new source of
food for powder—on having discovered
where to find men when she wanted them.
This was ominous. To show her gratitude
Britain gave us Lord Carington. Pos-
sessed of rank, youth, means and social
qualities such as none of his predecessors
owned, his influence would go far towards
reconciling the colony to the position she
will be expected to take in future brawls.
But if the soldiers who assured London
aldermen that the oelonies possessed large
reserves of men pining for glory only knew
the real state of the case, they would have
kept a discreet silence. If ever a land had
wnatis oalled a “manifest destiny” before
it, that land is Australia. Her destiny is to
become a powerful federated Republic, and
anything whioh tends to divert her atten-
tion from this obvious role is injurious. At
the reoent English elections, the contending
parties vied with each other in declaring
how dear the colonies were to them, and in
hinting at the prospeot of a comprehen-
sive 'scheme of Imperial federation. We
are of opinion that it is not -in this


direction Australia’s interests lie. We
believe any scheme having for its object
the strengthening of ties which must in the
nature of things beoome weaker as the years
go by, until at last they part altogether, to
be a step backwards. And it is just because
we entertain these views that the appoint-
ment of men like Lord Carington— men
belonging to a privileged class with which
Democracy has nothing in common—appears
to us injudicious. Instead of being reared
ia that stupid “personal loyalty” faith,
which, in older countries, is fast going down
before modern ideas, we would have young
Australians taught, not to keep their faces
so firmly set towards those little far-off
islands in the Northern seas, but to think of
their own great future, so that when the
inevitable separation comes, the parting
may leave no sting behind.
The Death Penalty
A correspondent finds fault with us for advo-
cating the abolition of capital punishment.
He has been thoughtful enoughito search for facts,
and the arguments he constructs on them in
favour of hanging people are not ths worst we
have met. But they are bad, for all that. He
notices that there has not been much bushranging
since the execution of Ned Kelly, and considers
that it ia to the execution the immunity is due.
Bushranging, as everybody knows, is a pursuit
that is possible in thinly populated countries only.
As settlement grows close it disappears from the
annals of crime. In the natural course of things
it will, therefore, pass away from the life of Aus-
tralia, as it has done from that of England. It is
not hanging that stops it. If hanging bushrangers
prevented bushranging [Ned Kelly would not
have been a bushranger. Numb9rs of bushrangers
were executed before him. Again, if there has
been a lull in the pursuit during the few years that
have succeeded the execution of Kelly, there
was also a lull during the few years that preceded
i\ It is, consequently, as reasonable to attribute
the immunity that preceded the Kelly outbreak
to the fact that Ned Kelly was not until the end
of that term hanged, as to attribute the present
immunity to the fact that at the beginning of
this term he was haDged.
* * *
Similarly it is argued that the execution of
Johns for attempt at murder has made attempts
at murder less frequent siice that date. The
execution of Johns is too recent to allow statis-
tics,, were they available, to be of any worth.
Crime of every sort ebbs and flows like the sea.
It ia not sensible to throw a stone into a receding
tide, and, on returning a little [later and finding
the tide still going out, to say it was the stone that
did It. A country’s character for vice or virtue is
to be estimated, like an Individual’s, not on its as-
pect for an hour or a day, but on its general as-
pect ever an extended space of time. Were it true,
however, that attempts at murder have actually
decreased, and will continue to decrease in number
Blnca the execution of Johns, it is as illegitimate
to infer that the decrease is due to the execution
as it is to infer that the cassation of an epidemic
of oholera is due to the death of the last victim of
the disease. In connection with this, our corres-
pondent reminds us that we said that the execu-
tion of Johns would lead to an alteration In the
liw. He says: “ Parliament has been sitting long
enough since then, but has ever a whisper of an
alteration in the Act been heard ? No, and never
will be.” That Is not the only duty Parliament
has neglected. For the rest, England has altered
her law in the direction we advocated when deal-
ing with Johns’ crime. Sooner or later, New
South Wales will becom9 as wise.
* * *
The infrequency of the infliction of the death
penalty in France causes our correspondent to
point to New Caledonia. He asks if we have read
ia the S. M. Herald the articles on the convicts
at present there. The point he brings out is that
several of these convicts have been guiltylof many
•murders. We do not trouble to look up the
Herald or its Noumea correspondent. On every
question having for its object the establishment
of any law of life higher than making money
respectably and keeping It religiously the Herald
will be found furnishing “facts” and “corres-
pondence ” to prove that things should stay as
they are. But, without prejudice, we give our
correspondent his point. A man, even many times
a murderer, Is for his country better alive than
hanged. What la New Caledonia that Botany Bay
was not ? Those sent here a hundred years ago
almost all merited death by the laws then on the
E iglish Statute Book. Their necks were spared,
and what result do we find ? England has been a
direct gainer. To go no farther back than "the
darkest hour of her need,” were not the grateful
descendants of those British recldivistes among
the first to offer their money and their lives to
sucoour the Motherland ? What evidence is there
that the descendants of the recidivlstes in New
Caledonia will be less mindful of France than the
descendants of those In Botany Bay are of Eng-
land? Franoe, then, is studying her interests
as a nation by confining, instead of execut-
ing, her criminals. Our correspondent points
to New Caledonia as a condemnation of the
infrequency of capital punishment In Franoe.
Our correspondent’s grandfather could have,
with the same reason, pointed to Botany Bay as a
condemnation of the infrequency of oapital
punishment in England. If the grandson will only
prove the grandfather wrong, which, we think, he
can easily do about Botany Bay, he will have
proved himself wrong about New Caledonia.
There are other reasons supporting the disincli-
nation to execute In France. One of these is
vital. It recognises that the actions of soolety are
examples to be imitated by the members. Mur-
dering a man for murder is, as we termed it some
time ago, society’s reciprocation of the murderer’s
sentiment. While society murders a man for
being its foe, there will be found a man to mur-
der another for being his foe. This principle, if
accepted fully, stops all execution, of course.
Presently in France it contributes an influence to
reduce executions to a small number. In any
case, France is doing better for herself and her
population by confining or deporting her crimi-
nals than by executing them.
* m m
Our correspondent says that in Switzerland
capital punishment was abolished with the result
that It was re-introduced “ in a very short time.’
That is true of many places. Some of the most
beneficial laws are wrecked because of people
noting their operation for only “a very short
time.” Forms of crime so often recur after irre-
gular intervals that in trying a new plan we can
never be sure that we are not experiencing abnor-
mal conditions. It is possible that the cancellation
of the death penalty in a country may be followed
by an immeiiate increase of crime. It is also pos-
sible for it to be followed by an absence of grave
offences. But if we limit our experiment to “a
very short time,” we are not justified in attribut-
ing to the cancellation either the increase or the
absence. While, however, evidence on the point
cannot be taken as conclusive, it possesses, especi-
ally if the period of experiment be not “ very
short,” cogency. We, therefore, offer the follow-
ing information given to John Bright when chair-
man of a commission which sat in England in
1867-8 on the subject of capital punishment.
The Governor of the State of Rhode Island
reported that the death penalty had been
abolished in his territory in 1852. From that date
until 1864 his evidence was that life had not be-
come less secure. Governor Lewis, of Wiscon-
sin, tendered a table covering the four years fol-
lowing abolition in his State. The number con-
fined for murder was in 1854, 6; in 1855, 9, including
the 6; in 1856, 12, including the 9; and in 1857,14,
including all. In Michigan the death penalty was
abolished in 1847, and the Governor of that State
supplied a table for the 17 succeeding years. It is
a very important table for those who want to
frankly deal with the question. We give it:—The
number of convictions for murder was, in 1847, 1;
1848, 3; 1849, 1; 1850, 0; 1851, 3; 1852, 1; 1853, 2;
1854, 4; 1855, 4; 1856, 3; 1857, 3; 1858, 3; 1859, 2, 1860,
3; 1861,1; 1862, 2; 1863 ,0; 1864, 2. We have not
claimed that the cancellation of the death penalty
will put an end to murder, hut we contend that
any candid man who [thinks over these figures
must cease to associate himself with those who
say that only for the hangman murderers would
desolate the land.
* * *
The last point we are found fault with for is
that we have not proposed any method of dealing
with murderers except that they shall not be
hanged. We demur to this complaint. It is true
that we have not devoted space to the detailed
description of any disciplinary system. Butin
every article dealing with the death penalty we
made it evident that we want murderers—real
murderers— held hard and fast in prison for life.
Frequently we have referred to the Maison Cen-
trale of Louvain. We may perhaps, sometime
print a description of that prison. The imprisoned
murderer of Louvain never sees a human face
except his keepers. Each cell has its yard. He is
solitary in his cell and solitary when taken out
for exercise. There is a library, and arrangements
exist which make him solitary when he goes there.
There is a chapel, and on Sundays the keeper
ushers him in and he walks to a compartment
which closes upon him alone. Each murderer can
see the service hut not one another. Work is com-
pulsory in six days of the week. It is twenty
years since this prison was founded and only two
cases of attempt at revolt have occurred.
We have held that murderers should be
subjected to a disciplinary system similar
to that which restrains homicidal lunatics.
Such systems exist in England at the pre-
sent time at Bethlehem and Broadmoor. These
lunatics spend their lives neither ia killing their
warders nor in killing one another. There are
over 400 of them in Broadmoor alone, and not
more than half-a-dozen murders have occurred In
the history of the establishment. In connection
with the record of these murders medical testi-
mony shows that insane murderers in confinement
are more unmanageable than sane murderers.
Before, however, time Is spent on details of prison
discipline, we want the people to see the stark evil
of capital punishment. Once they have opened
their eyes to that ghastly product of Indolent
ignorance and barbaric vengeance, they will be
easily taught the rest.
The Sydney Domain Regulations
Popular errors are proverbially hard to kill.
Give a lie a good start, and the difficulty of over-
taking It is far greater than many think. One of
these common errors which have a singularly
tough constitution is that Democracy ia a form of
Government where the people rule themselves for
their own benefit. This definition may he applic-
able to other countries possessing p opu’ar Institu-
tions, but, as far as New Boutb Wales is concerned,
it is directly opposed to fact. Shortly—unless
vigorous steps are taken to oppose recent edicts—
no place will exist in Sydney where citizens may
meet in the open air to vent their grievances or
ventilate their views on the passing events of the
day. It was not till the elections were over—till
representatives knew that a three years’ tenure of
political life lay before them—that new regula-
tions for the public parks and domains were pro-
mulgated. We have carefully perused these
orders, and are [per suaded that the person who
drew them up deserves to be known, if only for
the purpose of receiving some mark ©f public re-
cognition. New South Wales is not so over-
crowded with able men as to justify [her allowing
one of suoh exceptional talents to remain in ob-
scurity.
* « *
To begin with, no persons (sex is not men-
tioned) with the least leaning towards immorality
are to walk in the Domain. Whether they keep
the straight path or walk on the grass appears to
be Immaterial. They are not to go there at all.
This opens up some nice questions as to the pre-
cise amount of Immorality of which one can be
guilty without being liable to exclusion by an im-
maculate policeman or ranger. Would one lapse
from virtue necessitate your walking outside ?
Should suoh be the case it would be as well to close
the place altogether. For it would, in a great
measure, limit the use of this breezy upland to
babies In arms, whose backslidings had not begun*
and to aged persons of faltering gait [and, rheumy
eyes, whose peeoadllloes had long been forgotten.
It is not easy to guess what class of citizens or
citoyenne this rule was directed against—the deni-
zens of Woolloomooloo or of Darling Point
Under th 9 order, an occasional clergyman or a
member of Parliament might obtain admission.
But aldermen, journalists, Freethougbt lecturers,
members of the Salvation Army, and the great
bulk of the clergy would certainly have to climb
the fence. Then, again, no intoxicated person is
to walk there. As a rule, intoxicated people have
some difficulty in walking anywhere, and, proba-
bly, if left to themselves would prefer a gutter or
a door-step to any method of locomotion, however
pleasant. Besides, It Is expecting too much of the
ordinary citizen to suppose that he will always
limit himself to the exact amount of alcohol he
can carry through the Domain without spilling—
to imagine that he will avoid all public-houses en
route so that he may be entitled to take a short
cut through the public reserve, and not be
confined to zig-zagging the streets. It is a
well-known peculiarity of alcoholic beverages
that the more you partake of them the firmer
becomes your belief that it is sobriety, not intoxi-
cation, you are approaching. To keep the tipsy
public out of the Domain is simply flying In the
face of Nature. Why, it Is the first place for
which a person in this unhappy condition instinc-
tively makes, and it is doubtful whether a reserve
could be devoted to a better purpose than that of
restoring the mental and bodily balance of which
many of the worthiest citizens are sometimes
temporarily deprived.
* ■ *
But it is in the regulation regarding public meet-
ings that the serious absurdity lurks. Formerly It
was the custom to allow such gatherings without
let or hindrance. It was one of the sights of Syd-
ney to attend the Outer Domain on Sunday after-
noon and listen to the strange doctrines preached
from the tops of candle-boxes and depraved-look-
ing stools. In politics, every system, from Chinese
conservatism to Parisian communism, had its
advocates. The religious teachings ranged once
the wide extent of country on one side of which
Ingersole and Bradlaugh were entrenched,
while the disciples of Calvin and Knox stoutly
defended the other. And crowds passed good-
humouredly on, now stopping to hear some ortho,
dox undertaker grapple with the evolutionary
hypothesis and rout it with considerable slaugh-
ter; now to examine large coloured photographs
of the inside of a drunkard’s stomach. In one
afternoon we have heard more reflections csb*
on the Mosiae cosmogony and more destructive
criticism of the nebular theory of La Peace than
could be found in the library of the British
Museum. Still, there was no harm in all this. If
you did not wish to hear it you could pass on.
There was room and space for all. But no more of
these assemblages can be held if tb e new regula-
tions are to be carried out. One clause prohibits
all meetings which may lead to controversy or to
a breach of the peace. The ranger, a person who
possibly never got much beyond pot-hooks and
hangers, is to be the umpire. If meetings are to
be put down because they might lead to warmth,
then it will be necessary to prohibit all-even
those held for the purposes of prayer. Thero was
never yet a public meeting convened where each
speaker had not some opponents in the audience
—except in those cases where there was but one
orator and no listeners. It is stupid to expect any-
thing else—just as stupid as to hope that the
Frenchmen in a mixed crowd would agree with
the English speaker's account of the Battle of
Waterloo, or that the members of the Melbourne
Presbyterian Assembly would applaud Mr. Joseph
Symes when he lectured on Christianity.
* * *
Suppose we put it this way. There is a Jew in
our street. Under his window the Salvation Army
comes nightly to tell him that his ancestors
murdered the Son of God. He would be quite
justified in calling a policeman and saying, “ You
must disperse these people or I shall be obliged to
assault the bell-mouthed evangelist in charge.
I believe the Jesus of history to be an entirely
mythical person, and, even if he were real, and
suffered, it was only what he deseiv.?d for dip.
obeying the law—was, in fact, what he was sent
here for.” We contend that the right of the Jew
—seeing that he was in his own house, that they
were blocking up the public street, and that he
could not escape them without putting himself to
the inconvenience of leaving home—to get the
fanatics dispersed is far superior to that of any
number of dissentients at a public meeting—who
need not go there at all, or, having gone, can
leave without inconvenience—to get the meeting
forbidden. We are convinced that, unless the
people of Sydney look to it, their liberty In one
important direction, at all events, will be seriously
curtailed. Throughout all the colonies the growth
of police interference is assuming really alarming
proportions. At Melbourne, the other night, a
posse ot constables forced their way into an hotel,
passed through each bedroom and roused the
occupants up in their night dresses I For what
purpose? To see their marriage certificates!
The Victorians are ahead of us in everything.
We have not yet got so far as to oblige people to
keep their wedding lines under their pillows, hut
we are on the road.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The “Jernil” Grovels.
There is nothing new in that. It always does #
But this time the grovel is so abject that the
effort is worthy of passing contempt. This is a
sample of the literary slush, which (at the Sydney
Town Hall banquet) under the title of “Lord
Carington speaks” the Down and Gumtree
Jernie serves out for the delectation of colonial
snobbery
“Those who had the good fortune to hear him
were well pleased, not so specially with what was
said, as with the manner of saying, and the evident
tact which the new Governor has of leaving things
unsaid till he knows more about them.”
Probably till the Day of Judgment, or till gifted
newsmen know how to spell. To resume
“ But a man, in the face of Buch a greeting as
was given Lord Carington, who can stop after
giving utterance to the little piece he had set him
self to say, has self-control of no ordinary kind.
And he is able evidently to gauge the temper and
capacity of the people amonrst whom his lot is
cast. That the new Governor can speak is known,
and had he, in the flush ot pleasure, induced by an
eaj?er audience, {riven a taste of his quality as an
observer and a man of the world, the proceeding
would have been of the most natural kind.”
Why “ self-control of no ordinary kind ” ? If a
man learns off “ a little piece to say,” he usually
stops when he comes to the end of it without any
self-control whatever; like the diligent parson
who writeth his little sermon out, he atoppeth
when he comoth to the last page. And how do we
know that he is evidently able to gauge the
temper and capacity of the people? The citizens
went to the banquet to hear what an aristocratic
Englishman could say. They heard nothing but
the veriest commonplaces, such ss any literary
hack would supply at five shillings a side. We
admit that too much was expected by those who
went to hear his Excellency. Brains are not neces-
sary or usual components of the head of an aris-
tocrat. But the Jernil says, “ that he can speak
is known.” Of course he can, we heard him ask
for something—but if he has “ quality ” (how that
word seems to suit Yellowplush and Jeames)
“ as an observer and a man of the world,” he cer-
tainly showed wonderful ability in concealing all
evidences of its existence.
“But,” proceeds the Jernil, “the speech was
brief, and critics have to wait upon what he had
said. Truly, the spoken words of [a man are his
masters, and it is well when men in high places
can keep their tongues well under control.”
Gorgeous platitude! Admirable truism I Still, wo
would remind the Jernil that the tongue is an
index of the mind. We emphatically refuse to ac-
cept any high estimate of Lord Carington’s
quality as an observer and man of the world on
the mere ground that, at the Mayoral banquet, he,
after a certain point, didn’t open his mouth except
to put something into it. Briefly, the position is
this. Lord Carxngton had officially announced
that he would reserve his eloquenoe for the citi-
zens, and on that account refused to orate to depu-
tations. A display of his best powers was, there-
fore expected on the occasion of the banquet. In-
stead, however, of giving a specimen of cultured
oratory, Lord Carington, guided by his " evident
tact,” uttered what by no possible process of rea-
soning can be considered to rank above the com.
monplace. We are willing to give Lord Caring-
ton credit for “ his easy bonhomie,” “ cultured
manner,” “genial conduct,” “generous hospi-
tality,” and “ brilliant appointments,” but, in the
face of glaring evidence to the contrary, we are
unable to consider him “ an eloquent speaker ” or
a superlative tactician. Vice-regal speeches at
Sydney Town Hall have not usually been of a soul-
stirring character. Lord Augustus Loetus
made his debut there, and gracefully orated
of sewage. Lord Carington contents himself
with drought. There was nothing to effu-
sively commend in either effort. But in each
ease our Sydney contemporaries were due for a
grovel, so they (with the exception of the D.T.)
grovelled accordingly. A scene in a country town
occurs to us which is an exact parallel with this
proceeding. A selector had been doing a three
days’ spree, and having swamped his coin, the
pub. keeper sobered him up and started him on
the fourth morning with his face for home. The
“ cocky ” walked on till he came to the middle of
the town where three roads met.;There be stopped,
thought deeply for a couple of moments: then,
taking off his coat, he muttered with deep deter-
mination, “ Begorra, I must fight somebody before
I lave this I” And he did. Similarly with the
Jernil. It had the fixed idea that it must slobber
over someone. There was no more reason for the
fighting in the one case than for the slobbering in
the other, but a spirit of pugnacity in the first,
and fawning in the second instance, made a fight
and a elobber respectively a matter of necessity.
Had Carington said nothing whatever, the Jer-
nil would probably have gone into ecstacies
about his reserve; if he had spoken in Greek
about his culture; and if someone had mixed the
Vice-regal cups with the usual lamentable result,
the “loyal papers” would have shovelled out
barrow loads of literary mullook in praise of his
geniality. A s the grovelling had to be done, we
can only regret, for the sake of the Jernie as welj
as his Excellency, that a decently symmetrical
excuse for the necessary abasement was not
afforded.
+
Whisky—and Water.
Mr. Water-Jug Foster again poses before a
puzzled populace in connection with the political
character of Mr. Thomas Garrett. This time it
is because the latter politician wrote to him to
know whether it was true that he refused to Join
the Robertson Ministry because of Mr. Gar-
rett's inclusion therein. Mr. Foster’s letter is a
triumph of circumlocution. It begins with a
high falutin eulogy of the “ open manly boldness’’
of the talented Thomas, and, after much unneces-
sary verbiage, and in very complex terms, states
that one reason of the writer's refusal to accept
office under Sir John was the fact that he should
then have Mr. Garrett as a colleague. The posi.
tion in which Mr. Foster then stands is this: he
declines to sit in a Cabinet where Honest Tom has
a place, but, at the same time, is one of those who
by a narrow majority degraded the Chairmanship
of Committees to that olever man; and, further, l a
one of the men who voted for Mr. Garrett’s ex-
pulsion from the House over the Milbum Creek
business. By what process of laborious hair-
splitting can the senior member for Newtown
prove the consistency of his three decisions ? Can
he show that a man may be unfit to be a member
and jet qualified to act as Speaker of the
House ia Mr. Barton s absence ? Can he prove
that a man unfit for a member is yet
capablo of directing and restraining the proceed-
ings of members among whom, according to Mr.
Foster s vote on the question of expulsion, he is
not worthy to sit ? Further, Mr. Foster supports
Mr. Garrett for the important and honourable
post to w hich he has Just been elected, but refuses
to associate with him as a Minister. As a Minister,
he is liable to be deprived of his office at any time,
bat a Chairman of Committees cannot, with any
degree of decency, be deprived of his position by
vote, unless he commits some crime, political or
otherwise, durißg his tenancy. Mr. Foster
apparenily would have us believe that the past is
not to be regarded when a member is a candidate
fora chairmanship, but is of the utmost conse-
quence in the selection of a Minister. Undoubtedly
it is important that a Minister should have a clear
record, but this qualification is absolutely neces-
sary to a permanent officer of the Assembly. It


THB KATBS O» MUBBOBIF.CXOJS SO IMS BUIiIjBTIW
are—For ono year, Sis.; half-year, 13a. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. Bd.—ln advance.
Thb ADvaßSianra KAT2B are as. per inoh!
special positions In the paper 7s. Bd. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive
16 per cent. : For 62 consecutive insertions, 26 per
sent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Tbaili, ; for amounts
under JBI, postage stamps ef any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
Englishmen, Scotchmen, Irishmen, and Ameri-
cans all drink Wolfe's Schnapps.
Woman, in our hour of ease,
Uncertain, coy, and hard to please;
But certain to oe pleased when they
The goods of Summerfleld survey.*
MaoLaughlin’s Bodega, 3G6 George-street
near Hunter-street. Wines from the best vine
yards of Australia—by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Cold Luncheons, <&c.*
Brandies and Whisltioa are not at all as well
adapted for this climate as Wolfe’s Schnapps,
AMUSEMENT
FOR OLD
AND YOUNG
On receipt of the advertised price, any of the
following' Tricks will be seat by return post
THE DISAPPEARING CARD BOX.-A card
placed in the box instantly vanishes, and the box
is shown quite empty. Price Is., post free Is. 6d.
THE MAGIC CORK BOX.'-A capital multipli-
cation trick. Three corks are placed in the box,
which is seen by the audience to be quite empty.
The lid is placed on. and when removed there are
found six corks within. Price Is., post free Is. 6d
THE WIZARD OF THE NORTH'S CHANGING
CARDS.—These cards change instantly to other
cards, whilst held in the hand, in a most surprising
manner. Price Is., post free Is. 2d.
THE GREAT HAT AND DIE TRICK. A solid
die passes completely through the top of a gentle-
man’s hat and is found inside. Price la. (3d., .post
free 2s.
THE MARVEL CIGAR CASE.—The case ia
shown crammed full of line cigars, which instantly
vanish. Excellent trick. Beautifully made in
leather. Price 2a. 6d„ post free 3s.
THE MAGIC SNUFF BOX.—A moat excellent
trick. No opening can be discovered anywhere.
It leeks just like a solid piece of wood,' and no
person can possibly open it but the owner. Price
2a., post free 2s. 6d.
THE MAGICIAN’S PACK OF FORCING
CARDS.—No conjuror with card tricks can pro-
perly perform without them. The most astound-
ing trioks can be performed with them. Very
superior cards, 2s. od., post free 3s.
DEMON HANDKERCHlEF.—lndispensable to
every conjuror. Watches, rings, coins, and any
articles placed under this handkerchief, instautly
disappear, although the handkerchief is thoroughly
shaken and shown to the audience each time.
Price 2s. 6d., post free 3s.
THE MAGNETIC PACK OF FLYING CARDS.
Can he made to run up and down the arm or
body, and elongated in the air two or three feet
apart in the most beautiful regularity without one
of them falling. Very astounding. Price 2s. 6d ,
post free 3s.
THE MAGIC DIE AND HANDKERCHIEF. -
A solid wooden die is placed under the handker-
chief, and felt to he there by the audience, one of
whom may he allowed to hold it. The performer
exclaims, “ Presto I gone I ” and instantly takes
the handkerchief and shakes it to show the die has
vanished, and exhibits it thoroughly, whilst the
die itself is found inside a canister or any other
article. Price 2s. 6d„ post free 3s. 6d.
THE WONDERFUL JAPANESE DRAWER
BOX.-The performer sends round aprettyllgtie
box to the company, which they fill with ulSrg,
gloves, coins, &c. Directly the performer ti £as
it in his hands, without removing it from sight,
the articles instantly vanish, and the drawer ia
shown empty. Price Is. 6d., post free 2s.
THE MAGIC DISSOLVING PACK OF CARDS.
—A pack of playing cards are shown to the au-
dience and then placed into a case just large
enough to hold them. One of the audience iustaDtly
after this is done, opens the case, and finds it full
of sweets, and the cards vanished. Price Is. 6d.,
post free 2s.
THE MYSTERIOUS CANDLE AND BE-
WITCHED HANDKERCHIEF.—The performer
brings forward a candle out of a tight-fitting ease
and lights it. He then borrows a lady’s handker-
chief, burns it to ashes in the candle, and places
the ashes and eandle in the case again. The lady
is then called on to open the case, which is handed
to her. She does so, and finds her handkerchief
restored therein but the cand e entirely gone.
Very excellent trick. Price 28.61., post free 3s.
N.S.W. stamps taken at par, otaei colonies add
Id. to each Is.
Address all communications:
AUSTRALIAN MAGICAL DEPOT
BOX 641 G.P.O. 401 GEORGE-8T n SYDNEY.
Between King and Marxet Streets, opposite th#
Royal Hotel, and no other address.
C, W. ROBERTS
Slngla Bottle Department!
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNES,
Large BottJe, only 9s.
Brasil Bottle, , [UU 84.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOB INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
U. Bd. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
Ss ter Bottle
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BHAUMONT PORT,
is. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, 'Jotties, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest posslblo Prices.
GIN-IN FLASKS,
ls»9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke* Prize Medal Stand,
in stone bottles and square bottles,
laboxbt sin.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND XILLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
G. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Street*,
BTDKEY.
•eems that there is 'only one excuse which Mr.
Foster oan offer. He may say, “ after voting for
his expulsion, I could not sit with him as a
Minister.” But as Mr. Foster has already pro-
moted him to sit in a position superior to that of
any ordinary member of the House, such an ox-
planation would he scouted as a contemptible
evasion, worthy only of the seeming inconsistency
which it was meant to cloake.
Escape from School.
No pantomime— certainly none likely to be pro-
duced in Sydney—is half so entertaining as the
breakiDg-up of schools fer the holidays. The
praises awarded for success and the excuses ad-
vanced for failure are models of perspicuity and
subtlety. The principal of the Wollongong Gram-
mar School explained how much better the work
of this year was to that of last. He had then to
show how it was that, while all the pupils who
went up last year passed the University examina-
tion, but two meandered through this time. How
did he do it ? Hear him. “ He could only think
of two reasons. The first was that at the time of
the examination the excitement of the Parlia-
mentary elections was at its height, and the
pupils may not have been so settled as they should
have been.” We omit the other. It appears to us
that it was the examination not the election that
was the real settler. That a boy in Wollongong,
where political exoltement never gets so far as
sending a potato in the direction of an opponent,
should, because of an election, forget the multi-
plloation-table, confound Julius CLesar with an
anoient Briton, turn all the adverbs in a sentence
into prepositions and the conjunctions into any-
thing but proper nouns, state his conviction that
Waterloo was fought between the Yankees and
the Chinese, that Glasgow was an Irish town
whose chief industry was boycotting, and that
the genitive plural of homo was hominy
till the Scotch changed it to porridge*
or else commit any one of these or similar errors,
shows the interest our lads are beginning to take
in public affairs. But we must hasten on. At the
Petersham infants’ school there was a scene of
wild excitement. Referring to thi singing, a
morning journal says:—“Each number was well
reoeived, but the pupils fairly excelled themselves
in the vocal polka, which, both as regards the
articulation and vocalisation, was a really credit-
able production. Several pupils took part in dia-
logues during the afternoon.” As the great bulk
of the children had just turned four, the only sur-
prise Is how they were induced to forego their
“dialogues” and start the “polka.” It merely
shows what can be done with the wee ones if they
are only taken in hand promptly. By next
Christmas these precocious youngsters will be
satisfied with nothing short of opera bouffe. Then
there was the Bay-street Ragged School, Glebe.
Here there does not seem to have been any set
programme, but, after an abnormal appetite had
been developed in the little people by a three-
hours’ tournament of “racing for prizes, jumping
and other games,” the examination was brought
o a close by a sun ptuous tea, followed by a magic
lantern exhibition. Of all the modern aids to
digestion there is not one can equal a magic-lan-
tern. You unconsciously laugh the food into
chyle. Next to being a bush missionary we would
like to be a Glebe ragged boy on Christmas Eve-
The coat on our back might be a little behind the
times, but at least that of our stomach would foe
found as good as new.
"Our Glorious Constitution.”
When William Charles Wentworth cribbed
the New SouthWalos Constitution Act en bloc from
the Canadian statute book, he, and those who
worked with him, forgot to eliminate from It
some features which were objectionable by reason
of their obsoleteness and their total inapplica-
bility to our circumstances. Foremost among
these is the provision which requires that a
Minister on accepting office shall vacate his seat in
Parliament, and seek re-eleotion. The principle
was embodied in the English Constitution in the
time of Queen Anne, and was passed by the House
of Commons to act as a check on the power of the
Crown. It was intended, not for the expression
of the opinion of the constituency on the accept-
ance of office by their representative, but for the
absolute exclusion of redundant plaoemen; the
object Was loss of seat, not re-election. The state
of things which called the principle into existence
in England has absolutely ceased to exist there
since the accession of the present Sovereign, and
it never did exist in Australia. Why it was ever
introduced here is a mystery which was known
only to the illustrious dead, who palmed off our
Constitution Act as an original production. That
it has been perpetuated up to this time Is a fact
which reflects no credit on the Parliament ;
the idea of members seems to be that
it would be villainous sacrilege to lay hands on
anything which bears the impress of the name of
the great Wentworth. The principle is abso-
lutely indefensible on any ground of expediency;
in fact, the events of last week show with what
danger and disadvantage it is fraught to Parlia-
mentary govt rnment. It is generally understood
that the new Government will be in a considerable
minority whin they return to the House; yet,
owing to this obnoxious provision, they will be
able to hold peaceful possession of their offices
until the 27th January next. Meanwhile, of
c ourse, they draw the pay, and it is quite within
their power to commit the country to all sorts of
things. Their re-election by their constituents
will not stamp them, Individually or collectively,
as having the confidence of the people. The
people express their opinion through their repre.
sentatives iu Parliament, and a majority of them,
bo it is said, were quite prepared to condemn the
Government at the outset, but that extreme
course was not taken, as it was thought that it
would be unfair 1 1 attack the gentlemen who, by
the operation of law, had been compelled to
vacate their seats pending re-election. The prin-
ciple of re-election of Ministers is not embo-
bodied in the South Australian Constitution Act
and, certainly, no disadvantage has resulted from
its absence. The South Australian Assembly con
tains less than 50 members, yet the Ministries
formed there possess a far greater amount of
general intelligence, political sagacity, and admin-
istrative oapacity than is ever to be found in any
Ministry In New South Wales, where the Assembly
contains over 120 members. In South Australia
the usual rule is that each member of the Govern-
ment is a strong man in himself; here the rule is
to have either an imperious man at the head of a
lot of grovellers, or an indifferent man leading a
body of incapables—in one case a long head and a
long tail, in the ether case all tail. The difference
in favour of South Australia must be attributable
to the omission from the Constitution Act of the
Ministers’ re-election principle. A gentleman who
has to form a Government there is not limited in
his choice, as members are not hampered by any
consideration as to whether their failure to secure
a vote for a road or a bridge may induce their
constituents to reject them, notwithstanding that
the voice of the people generally may be most
distinctly in their favour. When the scrambling
for office of the old fogies of the New South
Wales political world is at an end we may expect
to have a reform of the law in this as well as in
other respects in which it is much required.
♦
An Aspiring Attorney.
The action taken by Mr. J. P. Abbott in the
New fiouth Wales Assembly, last week, when the
announcement of the formation of the Robert-
son Government was made, is a clear indication
that that gentleman is an aspirant for the honour
of Premier. In moving his amendment to the
motion recognising Sir John Robertson as
Premier, Mr. Abbott stated that he acted solely
on his own. responsibility. The statement was
quite unnecessary as far as those persons who are
watching the current of poiitical events are con-
cerned. The effect of the carrying of such an
amendment would have been that Mr. Abbott
would have been called upon to form a new
Government; but it may be asserted with safety
that not one of the many persons who have drawn
up a list of the names of the strong Government
which is to be in the near future, has placed Mr.
Joe Abbott at the top of his list; still it may be
assumed with equal confidence that in every
one of the lists his name is included. His
knowledge of the old and the new land
laws fits him specially for the position of
Minister of Lands, and his vigorous admin-
istration of the Lands Department during
the few weeks that he was in charge of 1 it has
gained for him a host of admirers throughout the
country. No wonder that, inflated with his recent
success and the profuse laudation of which he has
been the object, h.e should assume that he is the
right man to lead the young party, who are deter-
mined to assert themselves with a view to progres-
sive legislation. la this respect, however, he is
awfully mistaken. He is altogether too bucolic in
his style for such a position—that is, presuming
that we are to have a model as well as a strong
Government. It is evident that he has yot to learn
that it requires a different kind of strength to lead
and control a Parliament from that which is re-
quired to awaken lethargic departmental fossils to
the fact that they are a century behind the times.
The self-possession and bounce which a practising
attorney soon acquires may, when accompanied
by undoubted right and the power to enforce
obedience, accomplish the latter purpose; but it
is quite another thing when a mixed body of 120
men have to be dealt with. All are conceited to a
certain extent, some are ambitious, some are
jealous, some are deceitful- some ere afflicted with
the petulance of age, some are capricious, some
may be crapulous, and if they understood their
duty aright, all would be critical. The con-
trol of such a heterogeneous body requires
sound judgment, uncommon tact, and a good
temper. A leader of Parliament not possessed
of these qualities would very soon eut quite as
sorry a figure as would a “ colonial experiencer ’>
when, for the first time in his life, called upon to
manage a mob of wild cattle, one half of which
are quite averse to moving on and the other half
rushing madly off in the wrong direction. Suaviter
in modo, fortiter in re is the maxim of the success-
fill statesman, and it is because we think that Mr.
Abbott lacks the first quality that we are of
opinion that it would be a mistake for him, in his
own interest as well as that of the young party, to
push himself into the position of leader of it at
present. Further, it is questionable whether Mr.
Abbott has a sufficiently well-matured mind to
enable him to get a thorough grasp of the many
intric ate questions which must necessarily be con-
sidered by a Premier. It is only reasonable to
suppose that the old school of so-called statesmen,
who must be wiped out of political existence, will
die hard, and it behoves the new school to estab-
lish themselves firmly at the beginning by select-
ing the ablest of their number to ao t as leader.
A Trinity of Free-traders.
For the purpose of exposing the evils of Protec-
tion, the Sydney Daily Telegraph publishes ex-
tracts from speeches made during the late electoral
struggle in England by three prominent Free-
traders—Messrs. Chamberlain, Bright, and Sir
Charles Dilke. Some of the statements made,
especially by Mr. Chamberlain, show how
superior to common-sense an able man rises when
he gets a good grip of a fad. Illustrative of the
un-reason of Protection, the member for Birming-
iham says:—
“ He had received a letter from a Frenchman staf-
fing that at Lyons, Grenoble, and St. Etienne, 80,000
Breople were out of work. Statistics showed that
Tinder the protective system the silk and carpet
tirades were being ruined. . . . He was inclined
to say that, in consequence of Protection, we sent
more manufactures to protectionist countries
than they sent to us. ... In France and Ger-
many the wages of the working people, employed
in making the same kind of articles [screws], were
much less, and, in some cases, one half less than
they paid in this country. When he was in the
screw trade the firm with which he was connected
made screws by aid of an American invention.
The same kind of machines were sent to France,
G ermany, Russia, and every other country in the
w orld. . . . Every one of those countries put a
druty on screws from abroad, and were able to send
screws here without paying any duty at all. What
was the result ? At the time of which he was
speaking his firm sent screws to every other
country in the world, and no other country was
able to send such articles here.”
With its crushing war debt, and its ruinous mili-
tary and naval expenditure, there is no need to go
far afield to discover an adequate cause for French
stagnation. Mr. Chamberlain, as his hand was
in, might have said something about the hundreds
of thousands of those belonging to the iron, ship,
building, and agricultural industries who were out
of work in England. More than any other couniry.
France possesses the raw material for silk mamr
facture. If, with these advantages, that industry
cannot flourish under a protective tariff, how
would it be bettered by a free-trade one? If,
again, the result of protection in foreign countries
is that England sends them “ more goods than
they send to us,” why endeavour to alter that
pleasant state of affairs by persuading those
countries that Protection is but a device of Satan*
as one American clergyman delicately put it ? The
tradesman who is fast becoming rich owing to the
stupidity of his rivals in pursuing obsolete busi-
ness methods, should keep his success to himself,
and not enlighten them by exposing their igno-
rance. If it is advantageous for Britain that
France and America should remain protected
countries, then we contend that however fraternal
the effort may be, it is contrary to all the canons
of “ smart ” business to disturb them in their
fool’s paradise. If, with the same machinery*
Frenchmen, Germans, Americans, and Russians
cannot make as cheap screws as Englishmen, it
shows either that the foreign workmen
are very inferior, the British very superior,
or that England can obtain the raw ma-
terial for screws much cheaper that the
other countries. The latter is probably the real
cause. How Free-trade would remedy it is quite
beyond us. But when the vast coal and iron
fields of China are tapped, and the Chinese, with
their low wages and untiring industry, are able to
sell screws in Birmingnam at half the price ruling
there, it is possible that Mr. Chamberlain and his
logic will both go to the wall. We have always
held that there are countries in the world—notably
Great Britain - where, owing to position and
development, a Free-trade policy, or something
approximating to it, is clearly indicated. What we
deny is that such a policy is universally applicable
like a mathematical truth or a chemical experi-
ment-applicable alike to all nations in every stage
of development. It is by insisting on such applic-
ability that Free-trade apologists land themselves
in such illogical quagmires.
M. Henri Kowalski.
The eminent musician, whom the Philharmonic
Society of Sydney has been so fortunate as to
secure as conductor, and whose portrait we pre-
sent in our front page, was born in Paris in 1841.
From the age of six years Henri Kowalski com-
menced that career of distinction as a pianist and
composer which hts carried him to the high posi-
tion he occupies among the world s best musi-
cians. Few artists have travelled more widely
than M. Kowalski, and the biographical accounts
of his career which we find in the “ Dietionnaire
Yesperean,” and also in the “Biographe dea
Musiciens of Feti n ,” revised by Poogin, apprise
ua that he was in 1853 one of the Court
Musicians of Napoleon 111., becomicg some-
what later special pianist to the Emperor. After
having accomplished his studies at the piano under
the celebrated Marmontel, and of composition
under Reber and Carafa, M. Kowalski com-
menced a series of concert tours in Spain and Ger-
many, and in 1860 arrived in London, where the
criticisms of the Times, and of the Mornig Post
and other journals ascribed to him a place high
amongst the phalanx of virtuosi. During the
couple of months which he spent in London M.
Kowalski gave two concerts in St. James’ Hall,
and his talents were placed under requisition for
the grand musical soirees given by the Duchess of
Newcastle, Lady Spencer, Madame Bishoppsheim,
Baron Rothschild and other leaders of society.
From England, M. Kowalski proceeded to
America, where he passed most of his time from
the year 1870 to 1879, revisiting Paris three times
during that period. It was on the occasion of the
last return to his native capital that M. Kowalski,
in 1880, formed the resolution of visiting Australia.
He remained in this quart er of the world about a
year and a half, during whicn period he performed
in public not less than one hundred times. During
his residence in Melbourne he was called upon to
act as a member of the jury of the Exhibition, in
' which capacity he rendered valuable services in
the Fine Arts department. At this time
also M. Kowalski contributed a series of letters
upon Australia to the Figaro of Paris,
and prior to his departure :rom Victoria he
was, in testimony of the esteem and considera-
tion which he hao won, invited by the Marquis of
Normanby, the then Governor, to give a grand
gala-concert to welcome the two young English
Royal Princes. The Melbourne Liedertafel like-
wise testified their appreciation of his talents and
character by making him a presentation of a
magnificent gold watch wldoh had in the Exhibi-
tion carried off the highest award, a gold medal.
Subsequently returning- to France, M. Kowalski
superintended personally the flrs t production of an
opera of his own composition, in three acts, “ Gilies
de Bretagne,” apiece which ocoasiored in the Press
a very animated controversy. Later, he pro
duced at Brussels a comic opera in three acts,
again securing the most favourable comments
of the Press. In addition to these works,
Henri Kowalski is the author of more than a hun-
dred compositions for the piano, of which several
have achieved an immensa popularity, h>s
“Marche Hongrois,” for example, being discover-
able probably in the portfolio of almost every
pianist of any capacity throughout the civilised
world. His music is, in fact, universally popular
with the artistic, and is instinct with a pronounced
originality. The sojourn of Henri Kowalski in
the capital of N S.W. is much to the advantage of
the musical art in that city and colony, and his
presence may be accepted as a proof of the
attraction which the society and climate of the
sunny colony exercises on unprejudiced visitors.
His residence in this quarter of the globe is not.
however, altogether attributable to a preference
for these attracGons. Domestic circumstances
render him an exile from the probably more
kindred circles of Parisian life, and make him a
wanderer oppressed with troubles not of his own
creation, which he bears with fortitude and mag-
nanimity. Despite the form of his patronymic,
Kowalski, which seems to suggest a Polish or
Hungarian origin, M. Kowalski is a Breton of old
and distinguished race, the terminal “ ski" being
not unusual in that province of France. Accord-
ing to usage, M. Kowalski is entitled to assume
the title of Count, and the traditions of his mother’s
race claim a descent from the ancient kings of
Ireland. Although the recipient of no loss than
93 crosses and medals, M. Kowalski, with consis-
tent modesty, never wears a decoration.


Personal Items
Laboucliere, of Truth, is a teetotaller, but
a tremendous smoker.
J. E. Redmond has just passed his final
bar examination at Lincoln's Inn.
The celebrated Hobart Pasha, head of the
Turkish Navy, is bow Earl of Buckicgbamshire.
Sir John Robertson and Mr. G. R. Dibbs
have not yet “ made it up.” Sir John tendered an
apology to Mr. Dibbs at the Reform Club, but the
latter very properly observed that the apology
should be given where the offence was offered—in
Parliament.
"When the King of Portugal was in Eng-
land, Queen Victoria presented Edwin Landseer
to his Majesty as a painter whose works she had
been collecting. “ Ah, Sir Edwin,” exclaimed the
King*, delighted to make your acquaintance. I
was always very fond of beasts.”
A N.Y. paper says that “on the return
trip of the steamer that brought him to America,
Mr.Kyrle Bel,ew > the great English actor “(once
of Melbourne) “went back to his native London
with a bad black eye and a wholesome contempt
for the Institutions of this vulgah country.”
Firstly, he ran away with bank funds from
down South ; shortly afterwards was heard of in
Brisbane—he had gone out for a row, and the boat
was discovered, unoccupied by the gay defaulter.
A note was left by him confessing his identity,
owning up to his crime, and advising friends of
his suicide. And now he airily saunters up King-
street, Sydney.
Hon. G. B. Kerferd has been raised to the
Victorian Supreme Court Bench with a salary of
±3OOO per annum, and Mr. H. M. Chomley has been
made a County Court judare at £l5OO per annum.
For every one brief Mr. Kerferd has held-if, in-
deed, he ever held any—Mr. Chomley has held a
thousand. But Mr. Chomley was never Attorney-
Ge , t ?. e . ral , ? n , a Ministry that could perpetrate a
political job. If he had been, it would have made
a difference of £l5OO a year to him.
One good thing is told of the lately-de-
ceased Duke of Abercorn, the Irish Viceroy in the
administration of Earl Beaconefield. He once
allowed his name to appear on the directorate of
a public company which, like 80 per cent, of such
ventures, came to a disastrous end. The Duke
was not a wealthy man, but, feeling that his name
had drawn some of the innocents to their doom,
he voluntarily handed over £lO,OOO to be distri-
buted among the heaviest losers. Australians
know one Duke who will never follow the
example of His Grace of Abercorn.
Lady Loch, according to the Hobart
Mercury, Is extravagant. Nothing in the whole
wide world should tempt us to make such a mons-
trous assertion upon our own responsibility. It
sounds as much like rank blasphemy as a Salvation
Harmyprayer. The “gush” of the Melbourne
dailies over her ladyship’s tea-fights is extrava-
gant, If you like. Not that “ our reporters ” are
to blame. The outside public which subscribes
something like thirty or forty thousand a year
* or .y l6 support of the Lochs, expects a
little something in return. In default of any-
thing more tangible the public has to swallow
penny “ gush.”
From our London correspondent:—“Mr.
J?Combes, C.M.G.—please don’t omit the
C.M.G.—is preparing a paper on the early history
and progress of the colony of N.S.W., which he is
going to read for the edification of the members
of the Royal Colonial Institute. To-night the
same gentleman will, at a banquet of the Royal,
or some other society of Painters, reply to the
toast of honorary members. I know a man—an
art erttio—wht> met Mr * Combes at the Paris Ex-
hibition, and who, being no doubt an envious and
jealous person, asserts that Mr. Combes’ know-
ledge of art is limited to a proficiency in house-
painting. Twas ever thus. These haughty Eng-
lishmen will not take on even our greatest men.”
More grovel to vioe-royalty-this time by
Gifted Winter.” A ginger-bread pageant
like the prorogation of the Victorian Parliament
was bound to provide the dailies with oppor-
,?mi. es / or ffrovel. Said the Melbourne Herald :
The large attendance at the ceremony to-day
might doubtless be taken as no mean indication of
the respect and esteem in which Sir Henry and
Lady Looh are held I - ’ Great Scott I Is the crowd
which gathers round a Punch and Judy show sup-
posed to be doing homage to the man who plays
the drum? Why, we remember getting up at 6
o olook in the morning to enjoy a public execution
in London, but we certainly didn’t intend our
presence to be regarded as a tribute of “respect
and esteem ” to the poor devil who swung at eight
sharp. We went because he was involuntarily
performing for our benefit, sir Henry Looh was
performing for Victoria’s benefit, undoubtedly,
when he shut up Parliament shop. That’s why
the people went to see his show. It was dear at
gallery prices.
Sir Samuel Wilson, says rumour, is likely
to get the amorous young Earl Cairns for a son-
The would be suitable enough.
Miss Wilson’s papa rears sheep, and Cairns’ grand-
father dealt in tallow candles, and both families
are impregnated with suobbism. There is even
another point of affinity between them. The late
Lord Cairns sat on the wool saok for many years a
sack which is probably stuffed with some of Sir
Sammy’s pure merino. There appears to be little
fear of the ex- “ Gumboil ” returning to his old
love, Miss Fortescue, now that he has come into
the title. According to the terms of the ‘ gover-
nor’s ” will, his pious mother has power to cut off
her hopeful boy with a shilling if he doesn’t turn
himself off according to maternal instructions.
Miss Wilson now is quite an approved party, and
she may land the youtnful peer. If the gc od thing
does come off, it is to be hoped the lady will prove
magnanimous and hurl Fortescue a plump bouquet
the first time hubby takes a box for his forsaken
Circe s show.
The Italians have, at last, erected a me-
morial to their compatriot Cardinal Mezzofantl,
that wonderful Professor of Bologna, who spoke
German so that he deceived the Baroness Ulmen-
sheim, who spoke Welsh, Irish, Chinese, Zingari.
and Basque, and who, in all, was credited with the
mastery of some 135 languages and some 54 dia-
lects, a polygraphic knowledge which beats the
record of all the linguists who ever lived. It Is
not necessary, however, In such a case to borrow
from the marvellous. Fifty-six languages, as Mr.
Watts tells us, some years before his death, and a
possibility of from 60 to 70 later on, is surely
enough to content the most exigeant of wonder-
seekers. Mezzofanti was in his own person a re-
futation of the saying of Dr. Johnson, that “a
man who spoke several languages never said any-
thing worth hearing in any.” He astonished
Byron in his English, who called him “ a monster
of languages, the Briareus of parts of speech, a
walking polyglot, a universal Interpreter.” He
studied Welsh for but six weeks, and never spo&e
Cymru until he met a Welshman—Mr. Ellis, of the
British Museum—and then he spoke like a Taffv
who had never left the Principality.
Last week, as everyone knows, Mr. J. P.
Abbott, the N.B.W. Minister of Lands, went out of
office with his party. When Mr. Abbott was
Minister he, to facilitate business, ukased that the
public should on no aocount be allowed to inter-
view Lands officials until after 11 a.m.; and so
strlotly was this order enforoed'that when, a few
days before Mr. Abbott’s resignation, the door-
keeper permitted Mr. Butoher, M.L.A., to gain ac-
cess to the office at about a quarter to 11, the
janitor was informed by Mr. Abbott personally
that, did he again fail to act up to the letter of his
instructions, he would be instantly dismissed.
Well, two days after the Dibbs’ Ministry went out
of office, up walked Mr. Joseph Palmer Abbott to
the Lands office, at about half-past 10, saying he
wanted to see the Under-Secretary. But ‘“You
must not pass,’ was the stern reply of the frontior
sentinel.” The door-keeper, it is said, cynically
reminded Mr. Abbott that the ex-Minister was
now a mere member of the ordinary public. So
J.P. A. had to cool his heels outside until 11. Such
is life. Forgetfulness alone could have led to the
ex-Minister’s asking the jaDitor to contravene the
regulations; and should Mr. Abbott return to
the Department—which would be a good thing
for the colony—it is certain that the hall-porter
will have no cause to regret the stand he made
against the man who but the day before was
Minister for Lands.
The English Earl’s son, who was such a
nuisance in Sydney a little while ago, has baen
sampling the brew up country. He is now lan-
THE RULING PASSION.
PATIENT (who has just been informed her case is critical ): “DOCTOR, DOES THE HAIR GROW
AFTER DEATH?”
DOCTOR: “I BELIEVE IT DOES.”
PATIENT: “THANK GOODNESS! I SHALL LOOK AS WELL AS THE SMITH GIRLS ON
JUDGMENT DAY!”
guishing in a Northern lock-up. He is much
missed by the Expatriated Noblemen’s Piquet
Club. During his presidency they met nigbtly
under the Sydney Technological Museum. The
medium of speculation was usually tobacco, used
in the form of chews. Piquet being a game of
vicissitude, the rapidity with which the stakes
changed hands and mouths was exciting oven to
those who had faced the croupier at Monte Carlo.
We first mot this sprig of nobility in cold weather.
On our asking his opinion of our beautiful har-
bour he was pleased to express bis approval, but
added as a rider that it made the Domain con-
foundedly draughty. We failed to appreciate the
wit of this remark until we discovered where he
spent his evenings. We never met a man with a
finer appetite for drink; he was chiefly remark-
able for this and his “haw-haw” style, which
must have been very fetching with barmaids
and cooks. We nearly forgot another strong
point of his—his pertinacity. No one could
get rid of him under half-a-crown unless
they kicked him. Even then the relief was
only for a time. He used to be fired out of the
A HOME THRUST.
OLD BORE (late stayer): “YOU SIT UP PRETTY LATE HERE, DON’T YOU?”
YOUNG LADY: “OH, WHEN WE ARE OBLIGED TO!”
the bar-sweepings by the front door
rnoon; but the evening breeze always
wafted him in at the side door later on with the
scraps of paper.
-9? Charlie Lett, who, a few years ago, was
r most Beautiful man in Sydney, our
w corr , 6 spondent writes:—“ Fora good while
been in London. Everyone in Australia—
particuiariy every one in N.S.W.-knows Charlie
li® an s. l Charlie Lett knows everyone in Aus-
, Charlie is not the sort of man to allow
J®oP le to remain long in ignorance of his jexist-
V s £P U don ’t mind, belongs to the
ian Conservative ring. Having a
r?ho ** Possible that he need not toil, but
Charlie is not the man to be idle. He must be
bustling about in some way or other. I will give
tne ma,n sixpence who can name some active pur-
ln whioh Master Charles has not engaged
hn^J i .“!v. dl # riBr his eventful career. He now
hustles In the Conservative cause, is a staunch ad-
!^ P T ort ®. r of Heaton’s, somethin# of a
.journalist and London correr ion .lent (so 'tis said),
and I may add in your eai th. not ill-founded
suspicion that one of your evenin’ newspapers de-
pends, to a great extent, upon him for its cables.
His friends tell me that Charles is a member of
the Military Club in Albemarle-street, but they
must surely be mistaken. I have never heard
that he has been an officer in either the English,
the Australian, or the Salvation Army. But stay 1
Was not he also connected with the N.B. W. Soudan
Contingent ? There aro so many of the promoters
of that historic movement knocking round that
one loses count of them.”
A boat-party travelling down the Waikato
River in N. Z. during the native disturbances in
December, 1863, having reported to the officer in
command of the camp on the Maungatawhiri
Creek (the late Captain J. F. C. Hamilton of
H.M.S. Esk, who died, shot through the forehead,
at the disastrous attack on the Gate Pah), that the
dead body of a man was foul of a snag right in the
fairway of the river, one of the midshipmen of
the Naval Brigade was despatched with instruc-
tions to weight the corpse, and, after reading the
burial service, to sink it. The midshipman told off
for this duty was a hare-brained, high-spirited
fellow, whose dash and pluck compensated for his
somewhat mediocre technical knowledge and
ability. Upon arriving at the spot a lashiDg, with
weight attached, was passed round the corpse,
which was in a highly-advanced stage of decom-
position, to which must be attributed the contre
temps about to be related. All was prepared, the
bow oarsman, who had been steadying the body
with his boat-hook on the surface, had just let go
his hold, and poor H. (for he, too, has joined the
majority) standing bare-headed in the stern-sheets,
and feeling somewhat nervous in the new capacity
of sky-pilot, had arrived at the solemn words in
the burial service—“ We therefore commit his
body to the deep When the sea shall
give up its dead.” Suddenly he added (as the
corpse, which had disappeared, bobbed up from
beow)—“and, and blazes, there he is again!”
Thus ended H.’s first attempt at ministerial work.
The “Kerferd job,” by which the Vic-
torian Attorney-General was permitted to draw
up a bill authorising an additional Judgeship, and
then jump into the new billet thus created, has
provoked sundry savage snarls from the Mel-
bourne A(}e. “One lesson he has taught us,”
says the Radical journal, “and that is the danger
to which we are liable as long as the judicial
Bench may be used for faotious purposes, and
any incompetent Attorney-General may be
foisted upon it whom his party desire to
reward at other people's expense.” The Mel-
bourne Press seems to be attacking this appoint-
ment at the wrong end. If that veteran barnacle
of the State, Mr. Kerferd, be incompetent, his
Attorney-Generalship was the grand “ job.” Pre-
suming that another Judge is required In Vic-
toria (and in the natural course of things one
soon would be necessary), the A.G. should be
entitled to the refusal of the berth. As for the
judicial Bench being used for faotious purposes,
is there any more special jobbery connected with
that than with all other Government favours ?
Did a Liberal Ministry ever get a red-hot Coi s r-
tive appointed to a vacant bishopric, or vice versa f
No. Kerferd was Attorney-General for the
ooalition Ministry, and as such, is charitably pre-
sumed to be a shrewd, clever, upright man, dili-
gent and learned In the law. After permitting
him to pose in that character for years, it is too
late lor the dailies to cry “jobbery!'’ now that he
has been translated to the Bench. Besides, if
there were no Incompetent Judges, who would
attend to the wants of the poor prisoners ?
‘lt is a curious fact that a retired preacher
of Queaubeyan, N.S.W., has to this day a Bible in
his possession which was presented to him by a
number of boys who were in the habit of attend-
mg the Sunday-school over which he presided.
Among the names which were inscribed therein
are those of Benjamin Hall, John Gilbert, John
Dunn and Frank Gardiner, four of the greatest
desperadoes that ever roamed the bush of N.B.W.
On one occasion the same preacher was travelling
near the residence of Hall on a Sunday, when he
discovered Ben., Gilbert, and others, doing some
« nc i Reminding them of the sacred charaoter
of the day, the preacher was surprised to learn
that they did not know it was the Sabbath. They
referred the point to a lady who happened to live
in a homestead near, and on the statement of the
preacher being confirmed they immediately ceased
their work for the day. Within a few years of
this episode, Hall and Gilbert were the terrors of a
We wonder what is the moral of
this little story, so artlessly told by the Gundagai
Times. Is it that a boy who fences on the Sabbath
is bound to be shot or hanged in the long run ?
or is the tale intended to illustrate the wonderful
success ultimately attained by oountry youths
who attend a QueanbeyanSunday-school ?—or is it
that every boy who wants to live in history and
get a good par. in the newspapers long after he
has been riddled by police bullets should give a
Bible to his good, kind teacher ? We have, by the
way, some doubt as to whether the fascinating
narrative is altogether true, in face of the fact
that the accomplished Mr. Dunn was, as Dr.
Zachary Barry, of Sydney, would say, “ a Papist,”
and, therefore, not likely to attend the Sunday-
school with the other young gentlemen.
The U.S. President Cleveland “is a big
man,’ remarks sn American writer. “He must
weigh nearly 300 ! b., and a line drawn through the
centre of his stomach to the small of his back
would measure at least two feet. He is under six
feet tall, has a great width of shoulders, and his
flesh, unlike that of most fat men, is solid rather
than flabby. His arms are as big around as the garter
ot a ballet-dancer, and each of his legs would
make prime round steaks in the meat-market of a
cannibal. He has fat, puffy hands, which look
very soft as to their palms, and which, notwith-
standing the fact that they have pressed against
those of nearly 30,000 office-seekers, are still
clean and uncalloused. The dimensions of his
neck and head have been described ad nauseam .
His complexion is between that of a blonde
and a brunette, and his face pock-marked. It is
quite the thing, you knew, for the President to
nave had the small-pox. George Washington
passed through a siege of this kind before he got
to the Wiiite House, and Jackson was iikewise
afflicted. I suppose the marks on Cleveland’s face
came from the same cause. President Cleveland
dresses well. His usual suit is one of black broad-
cloth, with the coat double-breasted and tightly
buttoned about the body. He wears good boots,
and these always shine better than those of any of
his callers. His linen is always white, and he puts
on a new turn-over collar every day. His fa-
vourite necktie is one of black, very quiet and
modest in its tie. The President ties it himself,
and he does npt require the assistance of a valet
in making his toilet. He wears, you know, a
moustache, which is rather heavy and of a brown
colour. The rest of his face he shaves with his
own hands every morning. President Arthur had
his own barber come to the White House and
shave him. Arthur bought many suits of fine
clothes, and I suppose he used more while he was
in the White House than Cleveland will get away
with in a lifetime.”
A correspondent writes us“ In your last
issue you quote an extract from an American
paper referring to Underwood, the snake-bite
man. Your contemporary wrongly mentions
Underwood as a Queensland man who allowed the
poisonous adders of that country to bite him, and,
when fairly under the influence of the virus, he
would counteract the effects of the poison by
using an antidote which he only possessed: this
™n Be<^ e off ® red to the Government for
iAl.uoo. Underwood, twenty years ago, was a
familiar figure in the bar-rooms of Melbourne. He
generally carried a few snakes with him, and for
the amusement of the crowd would cause one of
the reptiles to bite him, usually on the forehead.
When the poison began to work and the poisoned
part to swell, he would apply the antidote, and
shortly walk away to exhibit elsewhere. He
offered Hie antidote to the Victorian Government'
for £5OOO. The offer was refused. Underwood,
while drunk one day, after being bitten failed to
apply the lotion, and within fifteen minutes he was
tuning his angelic harp in the sweet forevermore.
He gave no information concerning the compo-
nent parts of the antidote beyond stating that while
watching a snake and iguana fighting, he observed
the latter rush at intervals into the scrub and eat
something. .The ‘something’he discovered, and.
after patient experiment, successfully applied.
Probably the most singular suicide on record was
assisted, if not perpetrated, by Underwood. One
day an American gentleman drove up to the door
of his tenement, and asked for Underwood. He
asked if he could be operated upon and success-
fully treated. An affirmative reply decided him.
Underwood bit’ him with: a highly venomous
black snake. The gentleman at once darted out
to his haiisom, and left at top pace to catch a train.
He caught it. Engineer Death drove him at ex-
press pace to the golden gates of glory. At the
inquest Underwood pleaded innocence of partici-
pation, and was acquitted by an impartial jury of
his countrymen. The deceased was covered by
insurances. With Underwood’s death the secret
died.”
Dr. Beaney, M.L.C., the celebrated Mel-
bourne limb-remover, has returned from his trip
to Yurrup,” and been duly interviewed as to
his impressions of “ home.” There appears to be
j* g ’?, od de^ 1 of the George Augustus Sala about
the Beaneyian narrative. A whole column of the
Herald was devoted to the doctor’s dietary
diatribes. Furiously did he attack the culinary
®rra ngements aboard ship in these “impressions ”
of his. The French style of cooking is peculiarly
obnoxious to this thoroughpaced Briton. “I like
plain things, such as roast beef, boiled mutton,
and good floury potatoes, and was unable to get
anything of the kind,” said the poor doctor. That
was on the trip home, and the wonder is that he
ever saw the white cliffs of Albion at all, at all.
He “remained away from the table for nearly a
month.” Other people ate and drank and made
merry,.but the bold Beaney, like Achilles of old,
sulked—in his cabin. “ Biscuits and beer ’’-more
power to them I-were his only means of subsist-
ence during those awful four weeks, and they
kept him alive.” As the doctor is only a little
slimmer than the Claimant in his best days, he
didn’t quite fade away under the trying ordeal of
beer and biscuits toujours, but it is not surprising
to learn that he “ lose weight.” Even the cham-
pagne was too sweet for this medical George
Augustus. Had he been able to get a bottle of
dry flz. he would (so the Herald man gathered)
“have felt better.” But he couldn’t. Infact-to
out the story short, for it’s too thrilling to
dwell upon—the doctor was “nearly dead ” at
the conclusion of the voyage. That he didn’t
die, but went to Canterbury and consoled himself
for his past personal privations by feeding up
2000 old women, is now a matter of history. Still,
one of the distinguished traveller’s most interest-
ing “Impressions of Home” is undoubtedly this—
that he might have died before he got there. And
after he aid get there things were little improved*
There is too much of the“ mossoo” about English
hotels to please our Beaney. To tell you of all his
trials—how his stomach revolted against this and
his gorge rose in rebellion against the other-
would take too long, but we will just mention one
shockingly un-English pieoe of behaviour on the
part of an hotel manager. The dootor;asked for
calf s head and brain sauce, and the manager
lauafied. w e ner there was anything sinister
and suggest! v -< utthat laugh is a question we
must leave il people who have seen Mr.
Beaney to decide. We believe there was. But to
conclude these very entertaining “Impressions of
■ Home, let us at once tell you that you’ve had (he


BEALE & COMPANY
City Show Booms,
386 and 613 GEORGE STREET,
13 CENTRAL MARKETS,
161 OXFORD STREET
AGENTS and TRAVELLERS In EVERY
COUNTRY TOWN,
Address Letters of Inquiry—
-371a Pltt-street, Sydney.
THE LATEST TRIUMPH of SEWING MACE 1X A
MECHANICS,
The “BEALE",
HIGH-ARM
PATENT SEWING MACHINES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
Wertheim Sewing Machine,
BEALE.
The “ Hapsburg” Pianos.
SOLE IMPORTERS,
BEALE AND COMPANY.
THE “HAYDN” ORGANS
AND
HARMONIUMS.
Sole Importers
BEALE AMD COMPANY.
FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
and
FULL INFORMATION,
Address
ANY LOCAL AGENT OR TRAVELLER;
or,
BEALE & COMPANY
Sydney.
irist of ’em. A few remarks the good doctor had
to make about hospitals and taffies like that, but
it*is evident they left him with no vivid
iionfc” As GA.S. saw Australia, so did the
scarcely less rotund Beaney view Home, Sweet
Home. Through the fumes from old-crusted
bottles and the steam from saucepans.
The Viotorian Crown Law authorities
have met with a rough customer in Jos. Symes.
The other day a verdict was given to the thrown
against Jos. for having published his paper, the
Liberator, without registering
course the following missive reached defendant s
solicitor:—“Crown Solicitor’s Office, Melbourne,
9th Dee., 1885. Attorney-General v. Symes. Sir,
—I have the honour to inform you that the plain-
tiff’s costs of this action have this day been taxed
at £lOO 19s. sd. Please forward to me forthwith
that amount and also the amount of the verdict.
I have the honour to be, sir, your obedient servant,
J. Poole, for Crown Solicitor. W. Sievwnght.
Esq., Solicitor, Collins-street.” On receipt whereof
Symes wrote thus to the Attorney-GeneralSir,
—Your solicitor—l mean, our public solictor whom
we nay to do colonial work -sends me a demand
for payment of £126195. 5d., being the verdict of
£25 given against me by the jury in the Libera-
tor case, together with £lOO 19s. sd. costs 1 Don t
vou wish you may get it ? Let me tell you what
my estate is. In the first place. I do not own a
single penny’s worth of the Liberator. The
paper is not mine, never was; it belongs
to a limited liability company; and I am
no more its proprietor than you. I have no
share in that company and never had. My
own estate consists of an invalid wife; two dogs,
one cat, several fowls, about £2O to £3O worth of
furniture, and a few books. Besides that I have a
microscope and a telescope. You can come and
seize the furniture and fowls and the animals as
soon as you like-come yourself. You may be
surprised to learn that my house is so scantily
furnished. I will explain: When I started the
Liberator I suspected you of dishonesty. Per-
haps it was Providence, or it may hare been in-
stinct, or knowledge of human nature—l oannot
tell; but I said to myself, ‘Now, if I furnish a
house, the Attorney-General will rob me;’ and I
sa d to my wife, ‘ We’ll do with as little as possible,
so that the robber shall have nothing worth his
pains should he make a raid upon us.’ She ac-
quiesced, and so we did. Now, I do not know
what you will do. There is my carcase left; you
may have that if you like. I will not run away
with it, if you only let me know you want it. I
Shall most Jikely go to Sydney for three
weeks or so about the end of this year, unless
you intimate a wish for me to stay iu
Melbourne to retire to any private residence you
may have for my accommodation. If you give me
no such intimation, I shall leave Melbourre in
less than a fortnight, as above explained, and be
back again about the end of January. Now you
know what to do. I will not mince matters with
you. I shall not pay the money, do what you
may; nor shall I allow my friends to pay for
me. You prosecuted me for doing my duty and
trying to enlighten the people of these colonies
You know that I have committed no crime- If
it is the case that a man must be punished in Vic-
toria for doing what he is able to enlighten his
fellows and to improve their condition, be it so;
I’ll suffer. I shall not flinch from you in this case
any more than I did in the Hall of Science struggle.
As I beat you then, I’ll beat you now, if I have to
die for it. So I defy you to do your worst. The
Liberator shall flourish—with your approval or
connivance, if you choose—but in spite of you, if
you are criminal enough to resist. This
paper is a thousand times more powerful than you
and your fellow-tyrants. If you care to try issues
with it, do. I may say that l have no desire for
further litigation, or further fighting with you. I
never sought it. You forced it upon me. Drop it
as soon or as late as you like. I shall drop it when
you do, not earlier. I can readily forgive your
past crimes against liberty, if you repent and
amend your ways. But if you will persist in your
scandalous iniquity, do. I defy you now as I have
done before. Rob me, strip me of what little I
have. Send me to prison, if you are able; and we
shall see whioh will be in the better position when
the fight terminates. Of one thing lam certaio,
and that is, that this struggle between liberty and
brutal tyranny will never end except in yeur
withdrawal from your false position or in your
total and ignominious defeat. Ido not utter rash
threats, as you know.—Jos. Symes, Melbourne,
December 17, 1885. P.S.—l'll pay the money at the
resurrection, if you and your clerical masters care
to demand it then.”
• * *
Von Moltke is now in his 85th year, tall,
erect, with a sallow, beardless face, stony gray
eyes, and yellow hair. He walks through the
streets of Berlin slowly and noiselessly, un-
attended by even a single servant. Saluted by
every soldier he meets, he returns the courtesy,
but apparently without noticing to whom, and
everywhere he retains a cold, absorbed, mysteri-
ous manner Mrs. Mary Anne Booth, widow of
the late Lucius Junius Brutus Booth, the trage-
dian, and mother of Edwin Booth, died a few days
ago, aged 85. She was L. J. B. Booth’s second
wife, and was born in Reading, England. Her
family consisted of 10 children-Rosalie, Junius
grutus, Annie, Henry Byron, Mary Fredericks,
lizabeth, Edwin, Asia Sydney, John Wilkes (who
murdered President Lincoln), and Joseph Addison.
Mrs. Bancroft, the eminent English act-
ress, has ’verted to the Roman Catholic faith. ..
Great Britain is no longer in danger, and the army
is looking up. Both the Claimant’s sons have en-
listed Mr. Gladstone has a curious habit of
going to the theatre to shake off gloomy thoughts,
when it was announced that Gordon had been
killed, the G.O.M. went to the play. Prof. Fawcett
was his trusted friend and colleague, and Mr.
Fawoett died almost suddenly, after a very brief
illness; but on the evening after his death Mr.
Gladstone went to the theatre. Mr. Gladst one has
a strong aversion to churchyards. He absented
himself from Beaconsfleld’s funeral.
RThis is from Jos. Byrnes’ organ, the
Liberator, and refers to a well-known Italian
barrister practising in the South:— “An animal
named , probably a vertebrate of a low order,
specks unknown, genus doubtful, a barrister,
entered the court while I was last in the iron cage,
November 30th. It turned towards me without
looking me In the face, and smiled like an alligator
when swallowing- a favourite fish, and whispered
to Bomeone how pleased he should be to see a
halter round my neck. The animal is the special
favourite of certain Melbourne priests, who assert
that it bears the image of their god. I believe
them. It would not surprise me to find that the
nondescrint animal —— Is an incarnation of
Jehovah."
There has been for some time a lively cor-
respondence in the Tablet as to discipline in
Roman Catholic schools. Father Gurdon says:
“ What we are suffering from in these evil days is
general unwhippedness. What can be more im-
pressive, I might say majestic, than the cere-
monial of a traditional orthodox flogging? The
lifting of a raiment is almost a sacrament in itself.
Cut No. 1, I, curiously enough, generally felt
among my teeth as well as elsewhere. Cuts No. 3
and 3, as a rule, placed my soul among- the arch-
angels; I ceased to belong to earth. Cut No. 4,
this most important cut, forms the centrebit to
the whole transaction. All revolves round this
searching and soul-dividing stroke. It is generally
carried round ths dexter, or. to speak more cor-
rectly in heraldic language, the sinister side of the
shield. Its special office is to produce contrition.
Cuts No. 4 and 5 were the guardians of resolution,
that ensured perseverance for a time.” Cuts No.
6 to 49 were simply artistic efforts on the part of
the flosrger, woo endeavoured to produce the
* oughts and crosses ” of sincere contrition on the
carcase of the culprit. Father Gurdon would pro-
bably be more highly appreciated in Sydney and
Brisbane than anywhere else just at present. He
would find sympathisers with his teachings. The
suggestion that flogging can in any way be looked
upon as a sacrament is worthy of the lash-and-Jeg-
jron aristocracy of N.S.W.
CARING TONIANA.
There has been for ages past much learned
controversy about the origin of the Carrington
family. It is generally believed that Carringtons
were among the highest and mightiest in the land
during the Bibiioai era, but that the orthography
of the name has been mutilated in repeated trans-
lations of Holy Writ. Many Hebrew scholars stilj
hold by the theory that the wise son of David was
christened Carrington with two “ r’s.” An ancient
parchment, headed “Proverbs of Carrington,”
was undoubtedly discovered among the ruins of a
Jerusalem synagogue sometime during the second
century. The subsequent fate of this document is
unknown, but the proverbs have passed into
household words. A few of them are as follows:
1. The tongue of the toady licketh the rich man’s
shoe.
3. He that hath a eare for his horses shall rule
many men, yea, even at the uttermost parts of the
earth.
3. The companion of princes can do no foolish
thing.
4. Forget the shop wherein thy forefathers
amassed wealth.
5. A fifty-pound note covereth a multitude of
sins.
In spite of this discovery, however, translators
of the Scriptures have invariably spelt the name
of David’s son, SOLOMON, and have drawn atten-
tion to the differences of literary style between
these “ Proverbs of Carrington ” and those ac-
credited to the great King of Israel. The separate
identities of Solomon and Carrington, if not
clearly, are, at any rate, partially proved, and we
ourselves are by no means disposed to think that
the noble family now under notice is in direct
descent from the House of David.
* * *
That a Carrington held sway in Britain
during the regime of Julius Caesar is an undisputed
fact. At the period when the immortal Roman
landed on the island, the Druidical roads were in a
very imperfect state of repair, and the transit of
stores a matter of exceeding difficulty. Anxious
to penetrate Into the interior without loss of time,
Caesar issued a proclamation, conferring the
Governorship of the northern part of the Island
upon the warrior who should bear the heaviest
burden In a forced march. Among the stores piled
upon the beach was a twenty-hundredweight tank
of.corned beef, and one Ankius Pankius, a man of
immense stature, took this upon his back, and
bade Julius “lead on to victory.” To mark his
appreciation of the feat, Caesar, on the spot,
created Ankius Governor, under the style of
Baron “ Carry-a-ton,” subsequently perverted
into Carrington by the ignorant natives. This
Carrington developed gubernatorial abilities of no
mean order, which would have been transmitted
to his descendants if he had left any. Ankius,
however, is believed to have died without issue.
* * *
Mention of these early Carringtons is only
interesting as showing that the name was fre-
quently associated with mental and physical re-
nown. Genealogically they have nothing to do
with our essay. The present Carington family can
be traeed baok no further than the early Saxon
days. It is related of King Hengist's uncle that he
had a very beautiful daughter—
“ Rightte fayre she wor, and plumppe, and sprye,
Rightte inerrie wor her larffe;
Hntow her lippes wenne nun wor nighhe,
She rased ye harffe and harffe.”
So runs the quaint old ballad of Hengist’s favour-
ite minstrel. The “harffe and harffe” of the
period is believed to have been a beverage closely
resembling “stout and bitter” in its charactsris-
tics, and responsible for muon social dissension
among our Saxon ancestors. But to resume. This
lovely Princess was clandestinely wooed by a cer-
tain handsome young blacksmith who came over
with the invaders of Britain in attendance on the
horses of Horsa. Being a comely stripling, the
Princess, though at first scornful of his attentions,
finally came to reciprocate hlspassion, and beneath
the sacred mistletoe they plighted their troth.
When whispers of the engagement reached the
ears of Hengist, that chieftain forbade his cousin
to continue communication with her low-born
fiancA and ordered her to be placed under strict sur-
velllance. Love was not to be denied, however,
and the Intrepid blacksmith was discovered on
the evening of the Bratwurstkeit, or Sausage
Carnival (when her attendants were busy foisting),
in the very act of assisting the Princess over the
garden wall. For this offence he was flung into
a dungeon, and Anally brought before Hengist
and Horsa for trial. “So, Mr. Smith,” said Hon-
gjst, “you are still carrying jt onj” “yes, your
Majesty,” replied the brave-hearted lover, “ but I
tried to carry it off.” Struck with admiration at
the bold rejoinder, Hengist snatched a pike from
one of the attendant nobles, and commanded the
smith to kneel. Then, pricking him slightly with
the sharp-pointed weapon, Hengist cried “ Rise,
Baron Smith I and carry it on with our royal con-
sent and approval.” The nuptials of tha newly-
made Baron and his Princess were celebrated with
much pomp, and before the bridal party left the
vestry, the Baron craved permission to take out
his patent of nobility under the style of Baron
Carryingiton, dropping the name of Smith out of
consideration for the patrician prejudices of the
bride's family. Carryingiton left Issue (historians
differ as to the exact number, but 13 Is within the
mark), and his descendants, through a long succes-
sion of variegated monarchies, always contrived
to stand well with the reigning sovereigns. One
Godfrey lost the y from his name during the Wars
of the Roses, and became Carringiton, while
Eustace (the 93ad baron) was deprived of his
second r and also his second i by order of
Bloody Mary. Hence the name Carington.
There are few more honoured or more ancient,
as this little sketch has been written for
the specific purpose of proving. Even Sir
Samuel Wilson, with his direct line from Alfred
the Great, must play second fiddle to a pedigree
like this, while the Sir Somebody descended from
“Louis the Eighth of France” is a mere parvenu
in such company. Tennyson, It is true, has told us
that—
“ The grand old gardener and his wife
Smile at the claims of long descent.”
So they do, in the usual way. But you can bet
your last cent that the old couple don’t smile at a
pedigree dating back to Hengist and Horsa. No,
That's the sort of family-tree that Adam himself
might be proud to sit under to shake the
apples off.
So Mr. Edward Banian admits that he
has saved £15,000 out of his rowing earniDgs!
When Jaunts Henty saw Mortimer
Franklyn rattling up Collius-street the other day,
in a smart dogcart, ho thoughtfully remarked:—
“ Ah, well; it's due to the way of the ‘ world.’ ”
The Bendigo Advebtiser young man
praises a portrait of the late Dean Backhaus,
painted by Mrs. Thunder. But he is discriminating
in his praise, and, with the air of an artist who
knows that he is looked up to by a cultivated
public, adds: “The mouth is a little too hard."
Considering that the Reverend Dean died worth
six figures, the thought will obtrude that it was in
the direction of the pocket, not the mouth, that the
hardness lay.
He was lately from the bush. It was early
morning. Passing along Cumberland-street, Syd-
ney, he espied tho empty dirt-buckets, and gazing
long at a couple of kerosene-cans which em-
broidered the sidewalk, he observed, “I s’pose
them's what the people hang out Christmas-night
to see if Sandy Claus is cornin’.”
Writes a correspondent:—“ William Good-
acre, a representative of the Australian Widows’
Fund, died at Maryborough (Q.) last week of
typhoiL A 1 white ’ man gone home:—
“ Goodacrej thou hast gone where all men must,
The secret thou hast solved of life eternal;
Thy clay returned to earth -to kindred dust
Thy spirit moveth in realms supernal.
Immortal e'er before his glorious Maker,
Goodacre's clay is now in God’s good acre.”
Hon. James Service intends to retire from
the field of polUcs and go to Europe, as ho is in
failing health. Premier Service’s greatest ambi-
tion has al was s been to lead a strorg party from
the beginning to the end of a whole Parliament,
and a 3 he has now gratified that ambition he
thinks he cm afford to rest on his laurels. He
wi 1 probably accompany Chief-Secretary Berry
ou the trip home, and won’t they both give the
London giris a treat? Like Grah«m Berry, the
Hon. James is looking forward to a K.C M.G. ship,
but then the difficulty will be about “ Lady ” Ser-
vice. How’s ha to get over that ?
Hon. Duncan Gillies—” Da*, dy ” Duncan—
who is to be Premier of Victoria when the Miaistry
is reconstructed, has been milking the State cow
for very many years. In the early days of the
Ballarat diggings he was working as a miner, and
his fellow-labourers returned him to Parliament.
Before that the Liberal sent him to Melbourne as
a delegate to the Land Convention, organised by
thcs’* two pioneer land-reformers, Wilson Gray
and J J. Wais'i. Mr. Gillies at that time was in
sympathy with reformers, but he soon deserted
them, and went over to the side where there was
most money—the Conservative side, where he has
since remained. When he sought re-election for
Ballarat, be sustained a signal defeat at the hands
of Mr. C. E. Jones, but the iquatteis soon found
him a seat elsewhere, and he nas managed to get
a portfolio in almost every anti-Liberal Ministry
that hai been formed in Victoria during the past
30 years. He is a true type of tne professional
politician -whom the Conservatives are always
telling ua are created by the payment of members
system. It was Mr. Gillies who recently engineered
the Tramway Bill through Parliament for that
powerful body of monopolists, the Melbourne
Tramway Company. Apart from Mr. David
Gaunson, the Hon. Duncan is about as good a
debater as there is in the Legislature. He is a
bachelor, is a bit of a “ masher ” in his way, has
no particular trade or business, but has contrived
to make a very good and proflt business of
politics,
Ned.
Tell us a story, Ned-
One of the olden days—
One of the golden days,
When gold suns shone.
What if those days have fled ?
Bright ones may come again ;
Time to cave in, lad, when
Everything’s gone.
No, no more whisky now—
Something of Ballarat,
Bendigo, Lambing Flat,—
You’ve seen the lot.
What of Eureka row,
When Bern and Lalor bossed
Diggers that fought and lost ?
Humffray and Scott ?
When from ten thousand tents,
Under the “ Stars and Blue,”
Bronzed, bearded men and true
Eagerly pressed ?
Pride of two continents,
Joining in heart and hand,—
They were a plucky band—
Men at their best.
What of the old stockade,
Where Freedom’s flag floated,
Waiting the red-coated
Bloodhounds of kings ?
That mem’ry shouldn’t fade—
It was a iough romance—
Curses rest on the chance
Stiffened its wiDgs.
Come, old man, you were there,
Clean from the start of it,
Rig ht in the heart of it,
Fair luck and foul.
Golden hope, grim despair,
Both you’ve known, digger Ned,
Chasing each cry that led—
Drunk as an owl.
J. P.B.
The Agonising Itching and Burning
Of eczema or salt rheum Instantly relieved by a
warm bath with Cuticura Soap and a stogie
applicatio* of Cuticura, the great skin cure.
This repeated daily, with two or throe doses of
Cuticura Resolvent, the new blood purifier, to
keep the blood cool, the perspiration puro and un-
irritatiog, the boweJs open, the liver and kidneys
active, will speedily cure eczema,tetter, ring worm,
psoriasis, lichen, pruritus, scall head, dandruff, and
every species of itching, scaly, anddimpiy humors
of the scalp and skin, when the best physicians and
all known remedies fail.
MORE THAN A CURIOSITY.
“What is a curiosity, ma?” asked little
Kda. “ A curiosity is something that is very
strange, my child.’' “If pa brought you home a
dozen bottles of that celebrated Anheusen JBusch
BT. LOUIS L\GER BEER, would that be a
curiosity ? ” “ No, my child, that would be a
miracle.” Butcher, Fehon, & Co., Sole Agents.
11l Pitt-street, Sydney.*
“Doctors differ.” They do, but the ex-
ception proves the rule,—They all agree that
Wolfe's Schnapps is the best stimulant procur-
able.
Family and Christmas parties are not the
least attractions at this season of the year, and
what multitudinous means are used to make
places and humanity look bright and cheeriul.
The flower gardens, draper, poulterer, butcher,
grocer, and crookery and glass shops, are the first
sought to meet the wants. Without crockery and
glass—so beautifully got up as it is now—what
would you have to beautify your homes and
tables; and nowhere can you get better supplied
with these than at Bray Bros., 403 and 404 George-
street.*
The New York Daily Graphic of July 14th, 1884
contains illustrations of the Wolfe's Schnapps
establishment at Hamburg,


This Olympic
(late Old Masonic Hall, York-street).
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. M. L. Raphael.
Stage Manager .. .. Mr. D’Arcy Stanfield,
TO-NIGHT and Every Evening,
The Great Drury Lane Comic Chrißtmas
Pantomime,
MOTHER GOOSE.
MOTHE'r GOOSE.
MOTHER GOOSE
And the Enchanted Beauty,
including a Grand Transformation Scene,
and Harlequinade by superior artistes.
10 MECHANICAL CHANGES!
THE GORGEOUS and COSTLY COSTUMES!
TWENTY SPLENDID NEW SCENEBI
The great procession of 35 Handsome Ladies.
New and Novel Lime-light Effects.
All the newest and original music specially
arranged by Mr- G. Rivera Allpress.
Original and Unique Properties.
For further and full particulars of cist, &c., see
future advertisements and bills.
Special Engagement of Miss IDA OSBORNE,
from the Theatre Royal (by kind permission of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove).
Miss EMILY BEAUMONT, and many other
artistes, for this production.
Million Prices-Stalis, 35.; Farquette, 35.: Gallery,
ONE SHILLING. A few reserved seats at Nichol-
son’s, 4s. Box plan now open.
H. TREVOR AH, Business Manager.
Til ABATER ROYAL.
JL Under the management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrov*.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo.L. Goodman.
TO-NIGHT, at a quarter to 8,
The GRANDEST PANTOMIME
EVER PRODUCED IN SYDNEY.
An Entirely New Version of the Old Fairy Story,
CINDERELLA.
HER SISTERS, HER SORROWS,
and
HER LITTLE GLASS SLIPPER;
or,
THE FAIRY GODMOTHER
who wouldn’t let
THE BAD STEP-FATHER,
Admission : Dress Circle. 55.; Stalls, 35.; Family
Circle, 3s.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box plan open at the Theatre daily from
10 till 5. No Free List.
N
BW OPBSA HOUSB.
Under the Lesseeship and Management of
Messrs. E, MAJERONI and W. J. WILSON.
Immense Success
of
H. J. Byron’s modern drama,
BAFFLED
BAFFLED.
JOHN H. HALL in hig wonderful impersonation,
Signor Rambalini.
MAJERONI and WILSON’S DRAMATIC
COMPANY,
including Miss Maggie Knight, Miss Blanche Lewis,
Miss Emma Fisher, Miss Docy Mainwaring, Mr
John L. Hall, Mr. H. N. Douglas. Mr. E. W. Baker
Mr. Arthur Rodnev, Me. Harry Power, Mr. W. h’
Metcalfe, Mr. A. Davis, Mr. A. Maitland, Mr. s!
Stanley, &e., &c.
Prices as usual. Box plan at Nicholson’s Music
Warehouse, 335 George-streef. Day tickets at
Cole’s Book Arcade, George-street.
Carriages may be ordered for 10 40.
ACADEMY OF MUSIC.
foie Proprietor and Manager. F. E. Hisoooks,
RETURN HOME I RETURN HOME 1
of
HISCOCK'B FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and only Speciality Union.
TO-NIGHT, and Every Evening, the
BLACK PANTOMIME, ti AWLEQUIN.
BLACK “ HIDE ” SUSAN and her PLAIN BILL
Entirely New First Part, New Sonfs Refryus
&c ” anc J th e Greatest Musette!
First Part Itaale ever produced,
Gaiety theat k e .
Lessee Mr. John Holomon
Business Manager. .. Mr. B. N. Jones.
Re-opening of the DAMPIER SEASON.
Re-engagement of MISS MYRA KEMBLE.
A Most Astounding Success of the
CHRISTMAS PRODUCTION.
The Old Favourite, Mr. DAMPIER, received
a MOST HEARTY WELCOME.
This and Every Evening until further notice, the
Great Christmas Production,
THE CRICKET ON THE HEARTH,
A Fairy Tale of Home.
New Scenery by Kinchela.
Mechanical Effects by W. Renno.
Box Office, Nicholson and Co.
Manager for Mr. Dampier .. FRED. GUNTHER-
THE ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
George-street, Haymarket.
Lessee and Director Mr. Frank Smith.
TO-NIGHT. TO-NIGHT.
The Home of Minstrelsy and Mirth.
The Popular and Fashionable Resort.
IMMENSE SUCCESS. IMMENSE SUCCESS,
of the Alhambra Variety and Speciality Union In
their Refined Entertainment,
KING COCKATOO
KING COCKATOO
KING COCKATOO,
or
THE ENCHANTED ELEPHANT
THE ENCHANTED ELEPHANT.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 2s; stalls, Is;
balcony, Is.
Artists of acknowledged ability disengaged,
please communicate with Mr. Frank Smith.
Lynch family bellringers
(Organised 18671
Manager Harry Lynch.
NOW ON TOUR SOUTHERN DISTRICTS, N.S.W.
Moruya—Thursday and Friday, Slßt Doc., Ist Jan.
Bateman’s—Saturday, Sad January.
Nelligen—Monday, 4th January.
Milton—Wednesday, 6th, Thursday, 7th January.
Kuster’s
SACRED Sc CLASSICAL CONCERTS,
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING,
NEW OPERA HOUSE.
Doors open at 7 p.m., commence 7.80. For pro-
i gramme, see Saturday’s papers.
Scats—3 l., Is., 6d.
Conductor Herr Kttster.
fjjOO ACTORS, ACTRESSES, MANAGERS, &C.
THE THEATRICAL NEWSPAPER
BUREAU.
All the chief London Theatrioal Papers on sale,
including “ Stage,” “ Theatre,” “ Topical Times,’’
“Dramatie Review,” “Bat,” &c., at moderate
prices. Postage free to any address in Australia.
Write to Manager,
10 IMPERIAL CHAMBERS,
Bank Place, Collins-street, Melbourne.
MUSICAL INSTITUTE (opposite Gaiety Theatre).
BOYLE and CO ’S SINGING CLASSES
Re-open MONDAY, JANUARY 11.
SEPARATE Classes for beginners and advanced
pupils. Beginners’ Lessons 1 Operatic Cho-
ruses! Vocal Gymnastics! A good, solid school
of voioe cultivation and musical tuition. Tickets,
103. 6d. per quarter, at all music-sellers; or at
Institute on opening night. Two lessons a week,
Hundreds already enrolled.
TO MANAGERS, TRAVELLING COM-
PANIES, &o.
TO LET.—The CLIFTON PUBLIC HALL,
situated at Clifton. Daily communication
with Wollongong and Sydney.
Dimensions of Hall—7oft. x 20ft.
„ Stage—lift, x 25ft.
Scenery, Side Wings, and all such requisites.
W. MCLAREN,
Hon. See.
BUDGEREE! BUDGEREEI
NO MORE FEVKRS.
riIHE “BUDGEREE” DISINFECTANT!# the
H most wonderful germ-killer and fever-
destroyer known, and no household should be
without it, as it instantly kills all bad smells arising
from closets, bad drains, &o.
Sold at all chemists and grocers.
Depot:
JAMES C. STEEf,
Bulletin-lane,
Lower Pitt-street.
CARINGTON MEWS,
158 Phillip Street,
LIVERY, BAIT, and COMMISSION STABLES.
Wedding Orders punctually attended to.
Four-in-band Brakes, Landaus, Buggies, and
Saddle Horses on hire at the shortest notice.
J. BOOTH & CO.,
Proprietors.
Department of Publio Works,
Sydney, December 26,185fi.
TENDERS for PUBLIO WORKS and SUf
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may he in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, If possible, before the
duties of tho Board have terminated.
No tender wRI be taken Into consideration un-
less th® terms of the notioe are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to acoept
the lowest or any tender.
JACOB GARRARD.
JJ/J' ADAME WOODYEAR’S
ELECTRIC CIRCUS
AND
GREAT LONDON EQUESQUIRICULUM
CROWDED HOUSES
EVERY EVENING.
New London Show!
DARING RIDERS!
MARVELLOUS JAPANESE!
FUNNY CLOWNS!
AGILE ACROBATS
BELMORE PARK,
BELMORE PARK.
SATURDAY, JANUARY tan,
[at 2 p.EQ.,
GRAND MATINEE
FOR SCHOOLS AND FAMILIES.
ROBT, LOVE, Agent.
THE
ERINA TOWNSHIP,
GOSFORD.
Continuation Auction Sals,
ON THE GROUND,
NEW YEAft’S DAY,
and also
SATURDAY, JANUARY 2.
In consequence of the immense crowd, and the
lateness of the hour, the auction sale on Boxing
Day, after sale of the first £1960 worth of allot-
ments, had to be adjourned, and as a large number
of applicants were refused tickets, the auctioneers
have decided to continue the sale as above,
NEW YEAR’S DAY, and SATURDAY, JAN 2nd.
Two special favourite steamers—the Albatross
and Petrel—have been chartered, and will convey
intending purchasers on to the ground.
To keep the party select, a charge of 6s. will be
made for tickets, and the amount returned to
buyers.
Tickets will only be Issued to Adults.
There will be no overcrowding.
Barly application mußt be made for tickets.
WATER FRONTAGES
Water krontagee
Water Frontages.
ERINA TOWNSHIP
Erina Township
Erina Township.
ERINA TOWNSHIP MAIN ROAD FRONTAGES
Briua Township Main Road Frontages
Erina Township Main Road Frontages. ’
ERINA TOWNSHIP
Erina Township
Erina Township
ERINA TOWNSHIP
Erina Township
Erina Township
ERINA TOWNBHIP
Erma Township
Erina Township
ERINA TOWNSHIF
Erina Township
Erlaa Township
GARDEN PLOTS
Garden Plots
Garden Plots.
BLOCKS at the WHARI
Blocks at the Wharf.
Blocks at the Wharf.
COTTAGE 3 and LOTS.
Cottages and Lots
Cjttages and Lots.
BUSINESS SITES
Business Sites
Business Sites.
ERINA TOWNSHIP VILLA SITES.
The Best Soil for Vegetable and Fruit Growing
in the colonies.
A Fortune in Market Gardening and Poult rv
Farming in this DAtriot. 1 7
THE TERMS of SALE are-
-53. per Lot Deposit,
Balance,
ss. per Lot per Month.
NO INTEREST. TORRENS’ TITLE.
Parties wishing to start business will do well to
secure one of the bonus blooks for the erection of
store.
A large population is rushing to this district be-
fore the railway opens.
To prevent disappointment apply for tickets at
once. Office open till 7 p.m. this evenir g.
What the “Evening News’* reports of Gosford:—
" GOSFORD REQUIREMENTS.
“ The town of Gosford, which is now the capital,
so to soeak, of the wide Wollombi Electorate, is
making its demand for just consideration in the
matter of the public expenditure; and already
Mr. Scott, the new member, has won for the dis-
trict what ought long ago been granted. AmoDg
the items are £lOOO road, Gosford to Dora Creek;
£5OO. Murray’s Run to Wyong Creek; £2OO, Howe’s
Valley to the Sing!eton-road; £2OO for the Kio-
comber-road ; £lOO for Ouritnoah Creek-road •
£l5OO for wharf at Gosford (to be included in rail-
way vote); and £lOOO for the removal of Half
Tide Rocks, Brisbane Water bar. Mr. Suott htl
likewise pushed on to settlement the matter of
the public school l»nd grant. The Wollombi
Electorate being such an extensive one, it Is per-
haps, not surprising that Gosford and the district
was for a long period withouttnat representation
which it is now obtaining.’’
Don’t D jlay in Securing Allotments
at the
ERLNA TOWNSHIP.
All Loti Pegged md Ni mb red. Streets 66 fe?t
wid' 5 , auu marked out.
BOYD and KING,
Auctioneers,
96, Pftt-street,
CORRESPONDENCE
I Correspondent* who ctoe neither name nor nom-Cc~
plume cmmot expect to have their coni'
munieations noticed.!
tl J. P. T. Caulfield Sorry that we have
not space for your letter. Either you have
written vaguely or you have read previous
articles carelessly if you have not discovered
our justification for our opposition to the present
Cabinet. It is this: A Minister must be an admin-
istrator first, a legislator afterwards. We hold
that collectively the present Cabinet is not worthy
to be trusted with the administration; therefore its
members should not be allowed to retain the posi-
tions they now hold, whatever they may venture
to Ipromise in the way of legislation "Jack
Straw ” : It Is not straw but thistle that you want
“C.C.” (Newcastle) : Cannot touch it—
“CJ.”: Yes, the Duke of Cambridge (a Ger-
man) is Earl of Tipperary, but, as might
be expected, he never says a word about it—
“ Lambing Elat ”: Thanks for clipping and verses.
You ask why the Cornstalk who found and buried
the dead man shot the dog which was sitting by
the body. Because (this wasn’t stated in the
papers) poor Toby had been eating his master.
You mustn’t blame the trooper, and so your
verses go into the W.P.8...“ W. Carlton ” (Sydney):
Your letter is dealt with in present issue—
“Macaon”: Verses incomplete. The affair has
been dealt with by all the papers. Bourke-street,
Melbourne, is a very unlikely place to dig for
gold. But perhaps your lunatic hero may have
dropped some money there in years gone by—
many others knocked down large sums there.
Money is like character—not to be looked for
where it has been lost—“ Fiat Justitia”: The
treatment of prisoners, harshly or kindly, has but
little to do with the prevention of crime. Crimi-
nals seem to be imbued with the idea that their
particular crimes will not be discovered. Until the
secret of human action is discovered, people can
hope only for the partial suppression of crime, and
not for the ultimate conversion of criminals.. .
“H.8.D.” :Thanks....“J. Ward”:lf a lly which had
been feeding on a bullock that died with Cumber-
land disease bit a human being, the latter would
possibly be fatally poisoned. The boy you refer
to probably met his death in some such way
“H.J.” (Goulburn, N.S.W.) : He has been drunk
off and on.—chiefly on, ever since the last election
.. .“W.R.C.”: Will try to touch it up. ..
“ltoderic” : We don’t know much about fowls,
but suppose that if their back leathers are com-
ing off it must be because they sleep on their
backs on tho perch, instead of roosting in the
usual way .... “H.D.H”: Write to us again
when you have finished your Merry Christ-
mas. Or, better still, don’t write at all—
“ 8.W.” ; The stephauotis on your M.S. is very
nice, but you can’t write poetry— “J .S. Scru-
teor” : The S.M.H. had such an article. The war
against Burmah was waged, not for the benefit
of India, but that British manufacturers might
find a new outlet fof their goods —
“A Poet”: We have received your “Why do I
live?” Our answer is—Because you send your
contributions by mail instead of bringing them in
person to this office—“H. E. Austin We don’t
suppose it “ paid ” Mr. Stead. You seem to be one
of those people incapable of rising to an
eminence where they can do something that
“won’tpay." “Karl Marx”: Symes is not to
be further prosecuted. “ Try, try, try again,” is
apparently not the motto of the Victorian bigots.
They only tried Joseph twice—“J.S.”: Cannot
touch the holy apostle unless we have strong veri-
fication of the facts of the case—“M.S.” (in-
verell): Not nearly up to you former effort. No
addition could carry such a beginning along —
“J.D.”: The best of your sets of verses is tbis—
The youthful Vietoriaus are to be taught
history in the State schools, but an expurgated,
trimmed and glossed over sort of history that they
had far better be without. Nobody’s religious
feelings are to be shocked and every attention
paid to the sentiments .of all. Fancy what a
powerful grasp of the career of Old England
from when piratical Wjlliam the Conqueror took
it upon himself to govern her, down to the time
of our present great ruler, the juvenile student
will have when all great movements and colossal
rascalities are stripped of party feeling and reli-
gious frenzy.
The “heathen Chinee” has, since the days of
’49 in California and ’55 ia Australia, been more in-
timately associated with sluice-box robbing and
chicken annexation than with Christianity in any
one of its many varied aspects. Latterly, since
gold-mining as an industry has been legislated
nearly out of existence, and chickens have taken
to roostiDg in high and thin-limbed wattles, a few
other of the wall-eyed Pagans have " entered the
fold” on the off chance of picking up some new
wrinkle by which they may skin the lamb Bishop
Barry on Sunday dedicated a church at Botany,
and inducted Soo Hoo Ten, who is, we are bound
to admit, an enthusiastic and self-sacrificing
Christian, as spiritual overseer of his pig-tailed
Pagan professors of the true faith. We do not
know 800 personally, but we expect to meet him
occasionally parading, arm-in-arm, with the
Primate when, on Friday evenings, the catechist
calls to discuss the chances of securing souls on
the subsequent service. We may remark that all
the Primate s fowl-houses are provided with iron
doors, and his washing is taken in every night as
a precaution against the unconverted and ungodly.
We were once mates with a Christianised
Chow on CasMemaine. Our flour-bag was
never short. On gold or off gold ’twas all
the same to Joe. If we were off it, some-
one else was on, and Joe would visit their
boxes in tne dead of night. On Sundays he
J> reached in the Chinese camp, and alter the col-
ection we used to go t ) Ben Ho wicks and play the
• stuff ”up at euchre. Joe would have done well
and been a good Christian, but one night Dan
Desmond put a charge of duck ehot in his back,
and Joe went to seek the solution of the religious
conundrum for himself. If there is one animal
more than another calculated to induc3 our su-
preme, holy, sanctified admiration, it is a Christian-
ised Cninkey. He will smile with a secred senti-
mentality the while he goes through hisneighbour
for his watch chain, and after praying to Bishop
Barry’s “Joss ” for an hour he goes and prostrates
himself before his own Joss, while his joss-sticks
burn and his tapers flicker, and seeks forgiveness
for his heresies. Now, we are full up of this thing,
we are Christians, we go to church, fear Tod, ana
pay our water races; but if the almond-eyed, -.st-
ealing Confucian is to enter the fold with us wo
shall, unless Bishop Barry preaches a seven-storied
Purgatory and Paradise, with divisions for separ-
ate nationalities, he easily converted to the Hebrew
faith, for fwlauesiom into which no Chinkees need
©ppiy
Just now Melbourne and its suburbs are
in the fourth year of the land fever, and curious
are some of the stories of what it has brought
about. Here is a sample:—One Cox, two years
ago, or little more, was deprived of his lesseeship
of the Kensington racecourse, which the Govern-
ment wanted. He then got from one Feehon a
lease of 100 acres on the Bssendon Hoad, and there
started the Moonee Yalley Races. In his lease for
five years from Feehon is a clause giving him
right of purchase at £3OO per acre. Land sales of
subdivisions are so profitable that Mr. Cox has no
less than £7OO per acre offered to him by a land
jobbing syndicate, and can in that way net £50,000
profit.
At the recent Quarter Sessions at Goul-
burn (N.S.W.) an indecent assault case resulted in
a verdict of acquittal in accordance with the
Judge’s direction to the jury. The case appar-
ently was clear enough, but the forensio luminary
who acted as Crown Prosecutor forgot to tender
evidence with reference to the girl’s age, and
counsel for the prisoner did not draw his Honor’s
attention to the omission until the jury had re-
tired, when it was, of course, too late to supply
the deficiency. The prisoner was at once arrested
on another charge. The alleged assault was of so
revolting a nature—the prisoner and prosecutrix
being father and daughter—that Judge M'Farland
must have regretted the lamentable break-down
which prevented consideration of the evidence.
Crimes of this nature, in spite of the hallowed
influence of the gore-clotted “ cat,” are becoming
much too common in the N.S.W. country districts.
A pamphlet for book-agents has recently
been published by the owner of a “subscription ”
cookery-book. “ When the lady of the house
opens the door”—so begin the “Instructions to
Agents “ look her frankly in the face, and say,”
&c.; and “ when you have entered the house, still
looking her in the eye, you can say,” and so on.
This advice is evidently important, for without
it the agent might appear with a sheepish or hang-
dog air, in which cise success would of course be
hopeless; but what is to be done in case the door
is opened by some one else than “ the lady of the
house ’—by the small boy, for instance—the
agent is not told. But once in, and confronted by
the lady, the agent must politely “ point to a chair,
and say, ‘ Please sit down.’ Seat yourself beside
her, place your open book on her lap, and say,”
&c. These are among the general directions: we
have space to mention hardly any of those
adapted to special circumstances, which are,
indeed, too numerous for mention. “If
there happens to be a large chromo of
the Pope in the room,” the agent is advised
to “enlarge on the fish department,” though
why under these circumstances exclusively
we fail to see, since people who get along
without a large chromo of the Pope eat fish as
often, if not so regularly, as those who enjoy this
privilege. Of more general application is the
direction, “ Never, under any circumstances, per-
mit yourself to be drawn into an argument with a
customer.” If the lady replies to the agent’s in-
sinuating address that she “ has two (more or less)
oookery-books already,” he is in assure her that
ladies who have ten and thirteen (“ a fact ”) such
books buy his. If she is “ ‘afraid the recipes are not
good,’ about the best answer is to say that you
yourself have used it, and ,proved the recipes to be
good. There is no answer to this, except to accuse
you of lying.” If the lady remarks that she doesn’t
“ like the subscription plan of buying books,” the
agent is to assure her that “all the best class of
books are sold in that way now.” Finally, the
agent is cautioned against a little game which the
lady in her turn may try: “‘ I may see you again
when you are delivering, and possibly I may fake
a copy then.’ This is an attempt to get rid of
you.
OH, LOVE!
Is one’s love but an idle fancy,
A flower of a short sweet life,
Blooming human in Nell or Nancy,
The ideal one limns as wife.
Ah, no! love is a something sweeter,
Some holier bloom within,
Which blooms fairer and faster, fleeter
When her father holds the “ tin.”
But the flower of the young love withers,
And the roots die in his heart;
Very often the suitor “ slithers ”
When the maiden’s dad won’t part.


Oriental Sold.
Christmas Gifts!
CHRISTMAS GIFTS!
THE
ORIENTAL gold CO.
B
EG to draw attention to the SEDUCED
PRICES of their
iW Jmilsry!
OBSERVE PRICE LIST BELOW.
Ladies’ Handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, 10s, 15a.
17s 6d, and 30a eaeh
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 4a and 6s per pair
Ladies' Choice Necklets, 6s each
Ladies’ Choice Necklets, best American Plate, 90a
each
Ladies’ Elegant Bangles, 4s, 6s, and 10a per pair
Choice Lockets, 6s each
Handsome Gem Rings, la and 8s 6d eaeh
Wedding and Keeper Rings, in Solid Gold, 7s 6d
each
Ladies’ Handsome Lockets, 10s each
Ladies’ Elegant Cresses, 4s, ss, and 6s each
Ladies’ Brooch and Earring Seta, from 6s to 16s
Thimbles, warranted Sterling Silver, 3s 6d each
Gents’ O. G. Watches, Hunting, Open-Faced
Crystal Glass, and patent Keyless, 30a eaob,
warranted 3 years
Ladies’ (same as above.)
VST These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses *4 0 0
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
jewelled, and compensation balance ... *6 0 0
Rotherham’s celebrated English Patent
Levers M 10 8
Ditto ditto, compensation balance i. *6 0 0
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses.. .. *3 15 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance.. .. £4 16 0
A written vrarrantry for three years’ accurate
performance Is forwarded with eaeh watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph, £6 0
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
grade *6 0 0
Ditto, in hunting eases, compensated and
full jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket 8 10 0
We import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of AiiL the saving thus effected— about 36 per cent*
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £6
in moat Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £6 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £lO.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 4s
each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Rings, half round buckie
flat broad buckle, engraved, good luok rings
3s 6d each.
Gent’s richly chased engraved and plain Solitaire
and Link Suites, 3s, 4s, os, and 6s 6d per set.
Same as above, only harf sets, Is 6d, 3s, and 3s per
set.
Best American Patent spring Solitaire Suites,
6s per set.
Gent’s elegant Seals, 4s each.
Gent’s Elegant Compasses, 4s eaeh.
Gent’s Oriental Goid Alberts, 6s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold handsome Scarf Pius, Is,
6d, 3s, 3s 6d, 3s, 3s 6d, 4s, 4s Od, 6s, and 6s 6deao
Very best American Pencil Cases, 3s 6d each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Match Boxes, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Sovereign Purses, 4s each.
Riohiy engraved Bracelets, 6s each.
Handsome Bracelets, beautifully jewelled, Bs, 108,
13s, and 14s each.
Broooches, Brooches, Brooches, Is 6d, 38, 2a 6 i, 3s,
3s 6d, 4s, 4s 6d, ss, 6s 6d, 6s, 68 6d, 7s, 7s 6d, Bs, 8a
6d, 9s, 9s 6d, and 10s each.
PLEASE NOTE.
All goods will be sent post free, with the excep-
tion of the watches, orders for which must be ac-
companied with an extra amount of two and six-
pence to defray postage expenses. Send in your
orders early, as the goods must be sold, and no one
should miss this chance of procuring the beautifui
gems at less than cost price.
f4oxk ms Annniiiss :
The Oriental Gold Co.,
474 gaorgis Str&af,
OPPOSITE THE MARKET).
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Taavru* KOYal—"Cinderella • P* 8 -
a a titty Theatre—“ Cricket ou the Hearth „
Ojpbba House—*' Baffled ’’ .... .»
Alhambra—” King Cookatoo •*
Olympic— “ Mother Goose ”
ACADEMY OF Music-Federal Minstrels
There was crushing in the cirole, strug-
jfliutr in the stallP, and perspiration in the pit of
the Sydney Theatre Royal on Boxing night long
hefore the rag was reefed on the opening scene of
« rinderell a ” From the simoom swept selections
of Bourke, from the mangrove marshes and maize
Saddocks of Merimbula, hilarious rustics, large of
feet.kmdof voice, and gluttonous of encores,
had come, and the heated atmosphere was redo-
lent of gumtree, and perfumed with the odour of
the butter-mill and branding-iron. All the pas-
sages between the seats were thronged, and men
were Standing four or five deep at the back of the
cirele, therefore the opening night must have
been eminently satisfactory to the management.
» * *
In some respects it was equally pleasing to
the audience. Nellie Stewart, the Cinderella, won
continual encores for her vocalisation, and her
acting was equally popular, although her every
motion was eloquent of Yum-Tum, her partin
the “ Mikado.” As she appeared as Cinderella
during the 16 weeks' run of the pantomime in
Melbourne, she is thoroughly accustomed to the
business of the role. J. R. Greviile and John
Wallace were equally “ in it,” but Lance Lenton
hardly seemed to make as much out of Thisbe
as Harry Taylor did last year. Aggie Kel-
ton was a sucoess, and so was Docy Stewart
the ‘P-ince Peerless. But, taken as a whole,
“Cinderella "is not so fetching a performance as
when in Melbourne, and the odds are the Asso-
ciated Banks to a Nooze reporter s boots that its
present will not be equal to its former r un. Nearly
ail the scenery is identical with that used in the
former production, and there are many familiar
faces in the choir of symmetrical maidens, ihe
transformations arc brilliant and cleverly exe-
cuted, the neatest, though not the most gorgeous,
being that when Cinderella sheds her little wash-
ing-up dress, which sinks through the floor with
envy when it sees its place occupied by the glitter-
incr and gauzy ball costume. Then the kitchen
walls disappear without breaking a single plate or
milk-iug, for the sufficient reason that these latter
are painted on, and George Musgrove s little
cream pontes are driven on to the stage to convey
the not-less-beautiful-than-virtupus heroine to
the Prince’s ball. Of course, ss Cinderella is a
pantomime, there was a so-called boudoir
scene.” which, as usual, was weloomed by the
“ bushies” with tumultuous appreciation. Sydney
nnoDle are not so easily satisfied. These boudoir
scenes are very familiar to ail whose avocation
requires them to travel through the suburbs what
time Mabel and Amelia usually retire to give the
YOraclous mosquito its nocturnal picnic. The
only difference is that while on the stage a curtain
is drawn before the window, the suburban Venus
prefers to let the sott breezes enter, and take her
ohanoe of any “ nasty men passing at this time of
night.” Glorlnda and Thisbe must put some new
business into this scene if they wish to surprise
the suburbanites. The most pleasant surprise
would bo to out it out, but then a pantomime
without a boudoir soene would be like the Robert-
son Ministry without Dan O'Connor, or like a
speech by the same Dan without any mention of
the illustrious Wiilim Char-r-les Wintwortb, late
deceased. , * *
“Cinderella” has,been extensively localised.
We don’t know who did it, but when the perform-
ance closed on Saturday night a man with a club
asked us for Lewis Scott’s address. There was a
wild and gore-thirsty look in the man s eye, so we
told Mm Bondi, and started him off, hoping that
be might return stained with the gore of one or
two of our creditors iu that locality. W© don t
believe that Lewis Scott is guilty of the local
alleged bits, but such a p issage as this give 3 rise
to unpleasant suspicions. The Prince offerß
Ladida a mayoralty, and the latter replies:—
“No, I’d not care
To second* play—l want the lion s share
I will be Woolcott, you can be Mayor.
The Mayor he’d like to boss, go in with zest,
The Town Clerk makes the post a rare May rs
AnfPthis speech of Buttons also has a tendency
to cover the bard of curls and glasses with some
undeserved reproach and unmerited hatred:
“Well, just you wait a bit, Miss, and we 11 see.
If vou don’t go, I’ll let ’em have it hot,
And pitch the auction like a blooming shot.
My blooi wifi run me up so high that 111
Knoc v down each lot then just, like Mills and
Pile,”
As we have said, we don't believe the bard of
“Sunny New South Wales” wrote this. But we
think we can suggest the real author. Some
weeks ago, a long-haired, crooked-featured
youth with an aggressive squint crept
suspiciously into our sanctum. He held a
roll of manuscript which he asked us to read.
We read two pages. Then we threw the
pile at him and pointed to the door. Had he
delayed his retreat an Impetus would bay*? been
given to the coffin trade. Next day wesa w him at
a hash-house. He yelled to a waiter tor “’nother
plate of bakin an’ pertaters an’ cabbldge.” Then
we knew that bo was getting a full bead of Bteam
on for another literary effort Come to think of
it, Lewis Scott is not likely to have done the job
for the RoyaL # „
“ Cinderella ” is notably deficient in popu-
lar songs. “Other arrangements” was once new
so was Garden Honey’s hat—and “ Never be happy
again” does not come to us with any of its pristine
freshness—they are both sufficiently decayed to
give place to something less antique Another
noticeable weakness Is the harlequinade. Tilly
Lake dancss prettily, and Johani« Wallace is a
presentable clown, but there is a depressing lack
of “ go,” and there is not sufficient business of the
right kiDd to make things merry. An an ad. for
cheap tailors and enterprising publicans the harle-
quinade is a sucoess, but not otherwise.
»* * *
“ Baffled” is the Christmas bill at Sydney
Opera House. We think we have hint id that this
is not the brilliantest of Byron s dramas, nor yet
the most perfect in point of plot, out it is illu-
mined with ByroDio wit aud the shadow of a mys-
tery throws a background for the picture. Mr.
A.nson, we should have told you, having tirei of
sicoess, left the Ope a House alter the Governor s
visit, and is now, it is rumoured, hiding in some
dirK gully on the mountaius, for his nigh-piled
rich* s have made him an otj ,‘ct of much interest
to the unscrupulous men of this oity, so Mr. J L
Hall is now the sun around whom tne dependent
stars oir le. He is the Signor • qmbalino, chief
engineer of a veiling cirou*. H * hag a daughter
Ruth, who, impersonated by Maggie Kaigh , really
appears to be a very nice young lady. We have
only one fault to lind with her—she falls in love
with her father’s adapted son, a very fickle young
man, w nose singular beauty is never likely to be
a source of serious inoonveuience t j him, and who
moveß as though he had a stiff neck In the middle
of Ms back, and speaks in an equally inflexible
manner. This may be demanded by the exigen-
cies of the piece, if so, Mr H N. Douglas must bs
complimented upon his singularly successful dis-
play. in any case, the part was a most difficult
one to manage, as in some scenes lengthy aad
very awkward asides occur, which, by no means
of art, can be shorn of their mai appropriateness.
Miss Blanch Lewis is a deliciously hateful Ethel
Carlingford, and again Miss Docy Main waring
revels in a character of masculine muscularttj’,
but is more amusing than her busine s usu i iy
has permitted her to be heretofore ’’Baffled slides
along (we can't say "runs” every time-beslm s
the word is redolent of the Echo and News,) until
further notice.
The only Dumpier appeal s nightly at the
Gaiety in the ” Criuaet on the Hearth.” Tbs last
time we played cricket qu the hearth we set up
three empty caator-01l bottles and played for the
middle stump with our uncle’s watch. It wasa t
our uncle’s then; It la now- “Only two-ten on a
gold geneva, s’help me.’’ The Dampler combina-
tion is good, and we shall, contrary to newspaper
practice, retrain from insulting our readers by
detailing to them the plot (if any) of Dickens
story ( “familiar as household words. We shall
also, by Way of honosfc df'iticism, beelij at the
bottom of the ladder, and place Miss Katherine
Bussell prominently forward as a young lady
admirably adapted to the purpose of making much
ado about nothing. Her part had little in it, yet
“out of the Utile she made a Lot. ’ The revised
edition of the Old Testament will furnish the key
to our little jolie. She was nurse to Perryhyngle s
baby. When her present engagement terminates,
we shall secure her for ours. (Nurse we mean.)
Miss Myra Kemble's impersonation of Blind Bertha
was the most faithfully artistic performance we
have seen for some time. The gaze of her poor
blind eyes into nothingness reminded us so for-
cibly of the time when we sat with Charles
Dickens, senr., and debated whether a saveloy or a
Scotch pie were the better investment. ’Tis long
ago - a year or more—and yet ’tis but as yesterday.
The Scotch pie carried the day, but we didn't hold
it, and so, like the graceful Myra’s, our eyes gazed
on emptiness while our manly chest dilated under
pressure of the same luxurious fare. But we
are rich now. Etow pleasant it is to be rich.
Dam pier—hum 1 Well, we have known Dam pier 30
years, and if he cannot play any part now our
criticising availeth not. Therefore, Mr. Dsmpier,
we let you severely alone. Stoneham, Caesar, and
M'Kenzie were the “ whits.” They were two
fiddles and a flageolet. We left the bricks at
home, otherwise our appreciative offering would
have hurtled through the evening air. We re-
member J. Caesar- Julius—who was butchered to
make a Roman holiday—we were amongst the
“ push ” who “ came to bury Caesar, not to praise
him.” Why he was killed we cannot understand,
he had no penchant for the violin. Mits Julia
Merton was Mrs. Fielding, the mother of May
Fielding, a 12-year-old maiden, who—in the person
of Mies Saxon Feld—failed to appreciate the im-
portance of matrimony. Neither lady had any-
thing to do or say. They filled the parts of their
respective characters with much ability. Alf
Boothman was the Stranger He was a good
Stranger. Buch as we would have been proud to
meet at Randwick on Monday at the Booth-man.
This joke (do you see it ?) is copyright and will
be used in next year’s “ pant.” at the Royal.
Joe Stark was “ Dot’s father,” and for that offence
we forgive him. But Dot’s mother was younger than
the mother of Dot’s daughter should have been,
and when we see a 16-yearold maiden in partnership
with a bald-headed, wall-eyed, haujo-binjied,
bottle-bruising publican, we feel inclined to thin k
the “ aoparatus must lie.” Ed. Holloway was
John Peeryb ingle There is another Peerjibngle.
He writes for a Melbourne weekly. Ed. is the
better man, his fun is festive, the other man s fun
is funereal. Ach Himmel tread gently, ’tis a
Hollow way.
* * *
We love to see Miss Datnpier smile; her
smile is as an offering of peace and goodwill to
men. ’Tis gorgeous and exhaustive, hut when a
12st. “ slavey ” sits down on a two-months-of-age
child, the maternal sponsor of the same should
not indulge in hilarity. Otherwise Miss Dampier’s
representation of a union of Spring and December
was as near as it could be.
a w »
There was a baby in the piece— a baby
I chopped out of a back log with a tomahawk, and
! painted by a Red Indian. We could carve a better
baby left-hand. Russell rustled it round rccasion-
ally, and a live baby would have had its litile back
in its fist, in less than five minutes of her delicate
manipulation. Our baby couldn’t, stand it. We
are always being told to “mind its little back”
when we are on the paregoric parade jn the noon
of night. m m
There were some more people prowling
round occasionally during the progress of the
entertainment, hut they do not call for any
special mention. The cricket whistled several
times in the key of G. He was supposed to bring
happiness into the domestic circle. Well, may be,
but had any cricket warbled such misery at our
fireside every briok in the hearth had been
battered about this cheerful chirruper long ere
the climax arrived.
* * *
Kinchela provided the scenery. It was
good. Renno provided the Bnow and other
mechanical items. Some of the snow was cut up
Heralds and the balance flour. It was not beauti-
ful snow. It was erratic snow. It fell in flakes
through a closed window. S tow like that ought
to be prohibited under the Dog Registration Act.
It is savage and vicious snow. Let us know.
* * *
Wben our columns are less heavily charged
than at present, we will give all the plot of the
“ Cricket on the Hearth.” Just now we are
saving space for the Undertakers’ pic-nio.
*« * *
The Alhambra, Frank Smith’s Haymarket
Theatre, was without any vacant place* at 8 p.m.
Gardner and Shipp on the corners, Birringcon
interlocuter. In the first part, “Elsie of the Glen,
by W. Ryan, was probably the choicest item. After
which in point of sweetness came Amy Rowe’s
“Nourine, Mourine,” though to Millie Herbert's
seconds much of the music was owing. Lucy
Fraser’s “Only a Pansy Blossom,” was not given
in her best style, but the little lady is a decided
acquisition to the company. Matlock’s ‘ Sad Sea
Waves” was a capable effort, and Millie Herbert’s
“Sweet Violets” were to us as scented sunbeams,
sweet and soul inspiriting. We thought of flowers
and other things—beer for instance. We had the
beer afterwards.
Matlock “Longed to see the dear old
home,” and the audienee longed to see him again.
They did. Miss Grace Dacre danced, and suggested
that “The little children better hurry”; some-
where. The audience thought so too, aud G racie,
in response to their want of appreciation, hurried
off at the conclusion of her number. Grace would
sing better if she shut her nose and opened her
mouth. When she has learned to dance well she will
be a good dancer.
9 * *
“ King Cockatoo, or the Enchanted Ele-
phant,” an extravaugaoza by Leopold Jordan, is
not the worst of that author’s productions. There
is not much in the plot, which turns upon the
tyrannies of King Cockatoo,” who, finding some
gipsies slinging their billy on his selection, orders
them off. They move accordingly, and fall across
Prince Nibbleail (Minnie Hope) asleep in a foreat-
in the rain Millie Herbert and Barrington—the
gipsies—disclose to the Prine? the faet that the
King's temporal power is held only during As
possession of an enchanted elephant, which, with
the assistance of Princess Pretty Lips, Nibbleail
and the Gipsies subsequently capture, and tbe
Cockatoo’s selection is forfeited.
* * *
The King (Shipp) and his charming con-
sort (Gardner) have frequent disagreements as to
who shall rule the Royal roost, and on mob nc-
c»Bions His Majesty “bashes ” with a bladder.
With this article and Shipp’s English out of the
piece, much of the burlesque element would be
gone. Barrington (Bash-Bash, the Gipsy King) is
also a littie off in his pronunciation, aud speaks of
the “ haction of the im'emeats” with a careless
disregard of Lindley Murray, which makes one
wonder which hel-’e-ment, <-nd long to he*r him
telephone his reply from—some distance. If Joidm
emid teach the male members of the with
one exception, to “speak the speech plainly,” he
would benefit his work. Tie dresses and scenery
are good, the jokes and local allusions perceptible,
the Jadies charming,. Waiter Keen humorous,
and the ushers and orchestra satis!actory. King
Cockatoo ought to run 1 mg enough to recoup the
management for their spirited outlay in produc-
ing the piece.
«* * w
“ Mother Goose,” the Sydney Olympic
pantomime, s-ems likely to produce several auri-
ferous, ovarian tributes lor the mauagetaeoL
The dialogue of “ White-tye” is ofttn
whito-tye (don’t Bay that we can t wiim wtm-
mas puzzles), and most °f_th@_localisation has
been very cleverly effected. This bit, for in-
stance, is from King Knkolorum s musing on the
state of things a hundred years hence:
“ The ladies pr’aps by then will get cheap slaveys.
A hundred years hence—there 11 be no John
Davies.”
A fctfwl ffoin all round th& house Bhowed what
ecstaey there was in that sublime thought, bevo-
ral other couplet® proved also by their reception
that Mr. Duff had lodged very close to the hearts
of the people. Under other circumstances this
would be accounted indigestion.
« * *
With all this, although our mind is not
unconsciously influenced by any considerations
of professional rivalry, wo eannot look upon the
production in so favourable a light as our chari-
table feelings would desire The acefiery is not,
we might mildly bint, quite as beautiful as it
might be; and, from the narrowness of the stage,
it is seen too closely, and, further, it is frequently
seen-awry (there is a pun here somewhere), a ae-
feet that is becomiag less noticeable as the piece
proceeds With the very limited stage accommo-
dation which the Olympic stage affords, to g°
through a full-powered pantomime there, is like
playing cricket in the backyard of a suburban
villa, and the wonder is not that the management
have not done more, but that they have done so
much. Under the circumstances, the transforma-
tion scenes are not ecstatically sublime, and we
are inclined to think that it would be just as thril-
ling if the curtain were to fall and rise again in
the customary prosaic manner.
* * *
Of the characters, Miss Ida Osborne, vo-
cally, as well as dramatically, stands about two
octaves and a half above any of the others. Her
songs always earn a double encore, and her lines
h<g clearly given with the points its br tfht relief.
Dot Read and Eaith Wilson seem to have assimi-
lated improvement in pose and saltatory action
with their Christmas viands, and a more graceful
appearance is the necessary consequence Rose-
bud. on the contrary, appears, duriLg her 30 yeais
confinement in a dark and soiitary dungeon, to
have contracted a few new mannerisms of motion
and an undue desire of admiration from the
masheis with whom she naively declares herself
to be “so shy.” “ Her characterisation” is good as
they say in the provincial papers, but the ren-
dition somewhat too effusive. To say that Miss
Fanny Sarony sometimes forgot the exact tenor
of her lines is only a necessary consequence of
stating that she had. any to remember, but her
errors were not very aggressive, and her action
quite apropos. Fred. Dark (Bashful Fred.)
up beautifully as Carabossa, and trills with his
wonted energy, and D‘Arcy Stanfield is around
peg in a round hole as Kokolorum.
* * *
“Mother Goose” has several weak places,
and if the tomahawk wore used vigorously in
these the effect would be Considerably improved.
The “procession of centuries,” for instance, is not
effusively welcomed, and the subsequent dancing
is of a very mild order—a sort of SoUdaU goose-
step, with cat-on-hot-bricks variations. Added to
these the masher dance is a doubtful help to the
piece. The masher business was new when Sir
John Robertson was in the full bloom of vigorous
manhood. His recent speeches enable the intelli-
gent reader to guess that that period was not last
month.
* * *
One funny part of this Pantomime is the
song from behind tho wings of the sleeping
fairies, After indulging in a very good chorus
they are awakened by the enchanted wand and
come out for some more trilling. There is a girl
in the suburbs whom we have sometimes thought
a fairy, but if she sings in her sleep it is through
the medium of a ten-horse power fog-horn with a
strong nasal accent. The adoption of ‘Mother
Goose” in at least one way was a good move,—it
will tend to popularise the house, for, despite all
that we have said in criticism, the Pantomime is an
interesting and attractive performance. The
music is bright and well played by the hirsute
Alipr ss, the dresses are gorgeous enough to stand
the close scrutiny to which they are subjected, and
the dialogue rarely drags. A diversified harle-
quinade with Dot Read as Columbine rings down
the rag. Present indications sedm to point to the
probability .of a good run being achieved.
** * *
Then we went to the cirous—beg pardon,
equesquirioulum—where a crowded house had
assembled to witness the ground and lofty tua b -
ins, the riding, and the other items which make up
a good sawdust show. The genial Love smile io >
us in the entr tnce and bade us enter. We entered
iust as a youth c'sd in a s’esveleES coat and a black
eye was endeavouring to ride a cream-coiouieU
buck-jumping pony. Lorn! how sight re-
called old times, when we ran the mail past
Burke's grave on the Cooper. We always had
buckjumpers then. We were juat about to step
into the ring and try a fall with the creamy w‘ en
he was led out. The corde elastlque is another
name for tight-rope walking and daneng in this,
as in her other act, we have much pleasure in
throwing the figurative floral wreath at the feet or
Madame Leoni.
» * *
Victor Cooke and And. Herbert divided
the eucalyptus blossoms in the matter of iques-
trianism. The clowns wore original in some or
tbeir “ga/s,” and the ring masters were
apparently up to their business. Jack t oufiins in
his horsmanship displayed one feature, too o.ten
absent in ring performerß—affection for his borer.
He did not blame the nag for errors of judgment,
but sat down, and afterwards performed his feats
“with skill and dexterity.” For this, as for his
excellent riding, we award him honourable
mention. _ *
The equesquirioulum is sited in Belmore
Park, and our country cousins, of whom we saw
not a few in the tent, will probably drop in again
during the holidays to see the show so honestly
engineered by Bob Love.
** * *
At Liverpool-street, on Boxing Night, a
dodger was dashed into our hands by an
man who w; s evidently engaged in dodging the
tram-cars. Empson’s show, at toe Oddfellows
Hall, claimed our presence. We P. rac0 «ded
thither, and with some 30 or 40 other BtgbP.ee. s,
gazed on the ancient Empson, He was gicjt-
some years ago. Now, however - . pbarley
Holly gave a banjo solo, which received a triple
encore. Mr. J. S. Whitworth warbled Days oi
Old” in good style. Lottie Lefroy chirruped a
chaDt. and the Emp3ons gave their comic (fjPar-
lour E iteri.aiament, “The Naggletons. Then
Mrs, Empson sang “ Caller Herrin. We left after
that. We wiH go there again—when there is an
Oddfellows’ meeting.
« * * - v -
The Cottiers closed the doors of the Pro-
test ant Hall at 8 o'clock. There was then standing
room—outside. The brothers W. and H. Cottier
were on the corners, and Mr. Frank Walton lnter-
located. These were lour ladios on the stage,
who, at intervals, warbled dulcet music, and
ravished (judging by the applause) the ears or
the delighted audience. At this festive season of
cue year we are uot inclined to be hypercritical,
so shah dismiss the Cottiers by simply say mg t .ax
for genuine amusement and rollicking numour
they offers the best “ bob’s” worth in the city.
• * ~
The Hercules Amateur Dramatic Society
went through “Money” at the Sydney Olympic
la»t week to a swallow-tailed and effusively
banged audience- A demonstrative admirer (of
the performers, not the drams) confidentially in-
formed us that they wer** “ all amateurs. A very
hrief observat on was sufficient to satisfy us as .o
the melancholy truth of the statement. Ai we
have reason to believe that these gentlemen ama-
teurs are really very respectable fell jws, who pay
for their hash and washing with commendable
For contiauation of “ Sijn&ry ©feowsy* oeep&so !?■


PEPPER AND SALT.
People are becoming very Christmassy
this golden land. A Sydney undertaker decorate
the front of his establishment with Chinese ian
terns and eucalyptus branches on Christmas Eve
Had his factory worn the weeping willow or been
splashed with sprigs of rosemary, it would have
so to speak, emblematically represented th
truism that in the midst of life we are in debt. In
the mellow light of the lanterns could be seen th
outlines of the coffins intended to contain the
corpses of those who might shuffle off during the
gay and gladsome Christmastide. Artistically
scattered round in unstudied and picturesque
confusion were the tinselled trappings of the
dead. Pathos and bathos, fun and funereal gloom
suggestions of bazaars and burials, merry making
and mourning, gladness and grief. And yet the
Idea is but carrying out the old Scriptural injune-
tion, “Weep not.’’ Let us now carry it further
At joyous Christmastide each year let us illumin-
ate our family vaults and sepulchres, our little
lots, and lonely graves, let lanterns flicker and
fireworks flash, and while the soft music of the
Herman Band agitates the vesper air let us think
that the mighty dead are participating in our
seasonable enjoyments and the occupants of the
silent cemetery are with us in the delights of
Christmas illuminations and New Year’s joys,
aeo
Christmas in Australia was all the cry
when we asked the Press, with a big, big P (for its
Pressure, as everybody kaows), “ Now, what’s a
good thing to look at at Christmas?’’ “Jollity,
sir, peace and good-will to men ’’ said the Press-
“ Something light, sir, something light. Let politics
alone for a week or two. Never mind how the
world wags. Come some other time with yaur
final solution of all the troubles of the world.’*
We looked for the lightest thing in creation—the
state of political knowledge. Looked again for a
good antithesis—the remedies for social evils. Re-
volved, in fact, the whole sum of the lightnesses
of the world; and began to despair. We confess
to fumbling in a decayed exchequer that keeps
perennial lodging in our trousers pocket for some-
thing that would “lighten our souls we beseech
thee;’’ but a hollow voice came forth “ There can
be nothing lighter than this.” On this voice, we
tpake
Thu Bulletin bard who racks his weary
brain to turn out topical rhyme and wonders why
tt won’t come just when he wants it can And a oon-
floler In no less a personage than George R. Sims.
Writing in the Referee, as “Dagonet,” G.R,S. says
— l “ When some twelve months ago I began to
break down, or to break up, or whatever you like
to call the highly inconvenient process, the
faculty of writing rhyme suddenly left me. Up
to that period I had never experienced any d.ffi-
CUlty in ‘ knooking off ’ a bit of topical verse, a
Jingle, or a ballad. In fact, the rhyme came as
•asily as the prose—sometimes more easily. All at
once I experienced the greatest difficulty, and, as
doubtless Rfiffi-readers have noticed, it wag upon
rare occasions indeed, that, like Mr, Silas Wegg
I dropped into poetry. Now, that th® reparative
prooess has been fairly started, lam hoping that
the knack, or faculty, or whatever it should be
called, will return.” After that have a little con-
sideration for the too muoh maligned rhymster. ’
To take you at once into our fullest confidence, we
ourselves occasionally find our ideas turned off at
the main. Physical suffering condescends to at-
tack less lucky individuals than George It. Sims,
but an arbitrary editor insist? upon something or
another being squeezed out. The demon neuralgia
has his hand upon us now, but we must sing, and
for a much more modest stipend than the popular
London dramatist. Get us a littte laudanum and
pass down the banjo and we will make aa attempt
with
The following touching little Christmas
story is culled by us verbatim et litteratim from
the Wagga Stab—Three Star, this time, we sup-
pose At theonnflal meeting of the Church Mis-
sionary Cooiety of Victoria, on Tuesday, the
Bishop of Melbourne pre3idep, and, in his intro-
ductory remarks contenteuded that Victorian
Christians wera in duty bound to act fairly and
j ustly towards the few odorigiots who remained
out of the number whom the whites had dispos-
sessed, The future of China he said, presented
mary interesting- prodlems; and as now, through
the conquest of Burman, Englishmen had come
right up the conflner of that vast empire, they
should endeavour to cultivate friendly relations
with the Chinese, asd show them that the con-
sideration which, in accordance with the gospel of
Christ, should be extended to every son an
daughter of Adam.” There can be no doubt that
Father Christmas has arrived at Wagga, and
brought his demijohn with him. Well, boys, the
time oomes only once a year. If it came oftener
the Wagga Stab would be more interesting read-
ing than the puzzle-column of the Down ano
Gumtbee Jebnii,. Hicl
Ah, my Clara I Death is welcome; I’m content to
pass away:
That my words may warn the people is the final
prayer I pray;
Once again caress me; lam summoned now across
the Styx
To a land where greed and grovel shall not reign
in Eighty-six.
* ■ •
A prisoner’s appeal seldom meets with
such a hearty response as did the impassioned
prayer of Henry Barr to Mr. Justice Williams at
tne Melbourne Criminal Court. Henry had been
convicted of sheep-stealing when he put in his
little plea—“l want,” he faltered, “to be saved
from myself. I have been a villain since I was a
lad. Let me tell you this, your Honor, that a man
once in prison can’t keep out of it. I have thought
over this in my lonely cell, I have thought over it
while walking in the exercise-yard, I have thought
over it continually during the dreary hours of
my confinement, and I have asked myself ‘ Why is
this ? ’ Surely there must be something born in a
man.” A sufficiently touching address, that, to
melt even a Judge. Mr. Justice Williams was
visibly affected when ho passed sentence. It was
not only “ society” that Mr. Williams had to study >
but he also had to take into consideration the
“prisoner’s request to be saved from himself.”
That was the point. So the tender-hearted Justice
decided to save poor Henry Barr from himself
for just as long as the law permitted, viz., ten
years, the first four days in each month to be spent
in “solitary.” We are told that “the prisoner
made no demonstration on hearing the sentence
beyond opening his eyes a little wide.” His grati-
tude, probably, was too deep for words. Let us
hasten to offer our congratulations—
Tennyson’s new poem, “Vastness,” con-
tains some conundrums that should bring a blush
through the burnt oork on a minstrel corner-
man’s face. Take verse 12, for instance—
“ Spring and Summer and Autumn and Winter,
and all those old revolutions of earth,
All new-oid revolutions of Empire—change of
the tide—what is all of it worth ?”
Just put that one to a muddle-headed man, after
his sixth whisky, and see what he’ll make of it.
He’ll make fun of it, the drunken drivellerl and
tell you that a Spring and Summer which vary
their temperatures fifty degrees In a day aren’t
worth much. Then, here’s another—
“ What is it all, if we all of us end but in being our
own corpse-coffins at last,
Swallowed in Vastness, lost in Silenoe, drown’d
in the deeps of a meaningless Past ?”
We tried to stick-up an undertaker with that
tongh’un about “ being- our own corpse-coffins.”
He said it was “ d d cheeseparing rot.” We
mildly assented. “You might just as well talk 1
about being your own boof-butchers,” continued
the fuueval-purveyor, “aud try to ruin all honest
merchants at one blow.” We felt there was a deal
of sene© in the remark, and mad© up our mind to
leave “ Vastnesa ” to be solved by Dourlss Sladen
Now and then we get some poor devil into a dark
room and enquire:
“ What the philosophies, all the sciences, poesy
varying voices of prayer ?
All that is noblest, all that is basest, all that is
filthy with all that Is fair ? ”
Hut we always bolt before our friend has time to
borrow an axe. No, Tennyson’s puzzles are best
worked out ,by his brother peers. Perhaps Lore
Car , but no matter ! The water-rate man is a
the door, and what the philosophies will avail ui
in this hour of need, the Lord only knows,
• * *
One of the papers says Lord Carington is
Buffalo—“ Primo Lord Carington, R.A.0.8 J ’
which being Interpreted, means that he is a Sitting
ull of thelßoyal Antediluvian Order of Buffaloes
T^Buffa 10 w ni hereafter be a fashionable animal
and the blue bloods of the Sunny South will flook
to join the herd. Now we have a suggestion to
make. There i 3 nothing heroio, dignified, or pa-
!£ I 1 Otio n, abOut the Buir *l°—nothing Australian, no-
thing English. Give us an order which will have
a local habitation and a name. “ The Royal Reoent
or< * e , 1 ’ th ® Soudan Donkey.” There are Knights
and C.M.G.’s and M.’sP. at large who would gladly
jom such a brotherhood, and whose claims to the
highest offices in an assemblage of asses would be
acknowledged by the public on all occasions of
procession or display. The Donkey would, by right
of his distinguished and eventful career, take pre-
cedence of all the others. He would be Grand
worthy Historic Ass. A patriot could take the
next position-Worthy Chief William Buck Don-
key, after which would follow Associate Ass, Chief
Brayer, Deputy Jack Donkey, and so on. A Goat
would of course be necessary for initiatory cere,
monies, and, as according to precedent, one would
be sacrificed by each candidate, a new and profit-
able industry would sh:rlly be established. Eaoh
applicant for admission would brieg bis goat with
him, the Senior Ass would, at the conclusion of
the ceremony, assassinate it, and the brother
would then be one of them. Orders of merit
would of course be necessary. The first degree,
we would suggest, would be the Order of the Un-
mitigated Ass, the second the Order of the Thistle
Blossom, and the third the Royal Patriotic Jin-
goistic Order of the Glorified Goat. This latter to
be the pons asinorum, the stopping place of pride,
the acme of asinine ambition, carrying rights and
privileges beyond those of any other order. Eaoh
member who gained a goathood to be afterwards
recommended for a knighthood, and subsequently
sentenced to death at the heels of the G.W.H. Ass.
By this means heaven would be peopled with
patriots, who, to the music of their golden harps,
could warble lays of love and loyalty to the
“Dear Old Mother Country, in her hour of
neesd.”
“Polloe v. Henry Garraty, keeping geese.”
This is a Lismore (N. S. W.) item. Thank Heaven
we Jive in a free country. Henry was ordered hv
the Court to remove the geese within a fortnight
Henry, our address is Pitt-street, Sydney. *
We have been deoeived in the weeDine-
willow. We have always connected it with Brief
pictured it bending mournfully over tombs and’
sighing in the winds of night for the loved SSd
lost. But now we find that it is a large ingredient
° «»« manufacture of powder. What a crocodile
a tr w e j , T he crocodile is said to eat a man and
then shed tears over his untimely end. or weeD
over him and then eat him, we forget which and
this seems to us to be the pslioy of the weeninv
"Mow. ,y° learDt for fl st time-we Wt
know quite everything, though neai-ly—that It
o Cum Phnent part of powder from Mr. Ktaugh-
ton, a member of the Victorian Assonblv whn
wants the Government to encourage the growth
in the colony for bellicose purpose*. We are be-
to set tired ol being disillusionised in this
lashiou. But it never imposes upon us in future.
My Herbie Christmas.
God bless you merrie gentlemen,
May nothing you dismay,
I see you’re off with pocketsful,
With wives and sweethearts gay,
While I my learned leisure spend
In mending boots all day.
The man next door his carol singe,
And I keep time tap, tap;
He knows I’ve neither oake nor wine,
He doesn’t care a rap.
He sweetly tips the.ivory keys
While I sole leather slap.
0 merrily let the awl-box in
(Now, Joe, just drop that wax),
Pass me your damaged blucher, Fred,
(Thank God, I’ve finished Jack’s),
O merrily—(Lord, my pegs are done,
I’ve got to work with tacks).
Canaries twitter their joyful lay
On the next balcony;
My cat looks up with glaring eyes,
And yowls “ I’m starved 1” to me.
I pitch him a leather-paring, and
He chews it up with glee.
Fill high the golden goblet, boys,
With ruby-coloured wine;
With eighteenpenny tea I fill
This pannikin of mine.
Carve ye the buxom turkey well,
Whilst on I sardines dine.
Away with gloom, with care away:
This is your festive time
To dance, but on a three-legged stool
I merrily chant my rhyme,
And rap, and stitch, and wax and swear
My Christmas pantomime.
I see a lady fair pass by,
Attired in gorgeous silk;
To-morrow morn her husband says
He’ll summon me for milk.
Thank Heaven, she’s with a fluid drenched,
Familiar with that ilk!
Pour down, ye clouds, rejoice, my soul!
My rentman’s wife comes next,
With draggled skirts and much-splashed hose
I joy to see thee vext,
For I of all my chivalry
Completely am unsexed.
Awake, my soul, and with the sun
Don’t feel thyself too proud
To do thy little smile to-day
Behind a bank of cloud
That drops in fatness do wn upon
The festive Christmas crowd.
Cheer up, my soul, fair days will come
As any that have gone;
Sunshine and cloud have been the lot
Of every Adam’s son,
And will be, doubtless, till the race
Of Adam’s stock is run.
And now the midnight clock rings out
That Christmas Day is fled;
I oannot join the dazzling fair
Through mazy dances led:
The Governor hasn’t asked me out,
And—yes, I’ll go to bed.
THE WRETCHED RHYMSTER.
The Bulletin bard sits back in his chair
Surveying his pen and hii ink,
He tortures his brain, and he tears at his hair,
He moistens his lips with a drink,
In abortive attempts to make topical rhyme
Possessing the virtue called “go
Of all that he suffers in silence meantime,
How little, dear reader, you know!
His head may be swimming, and ready to split
His temples, like ours as we write—
But oh! he must finish his neat little “ bit ”
Before he retires for the night;
The trouble of turning a passable par,—
A verse that shall easily flow,
Which you pronounce “ good,” as you puff your
cigar-
How little, dear reader, you knowl
Be kind—drop a tear for The Bulletin bard,
Who aims to accomplish his best;
The funds may be low, and the times may bo hard
And cucumber lie on his chest;
Yet still he keeps rhyming, in spite of dull care,
Sore sickness, or heart-racking woe—
Of which, as you 101 l in your cosy arm-chair,
How little, dear reader, you know I
THE EVE OF “EIGHTY-SIX."
(By a Sydney Tennyson.)
Clara, come and kiss your William, press your lips
upon my brow,
For my sands of life are numbered, little time is
left me now;
Little time for sweet communion—aye, the end is
drawing: near:
Angrel-whispers wondrous warn me I shan’t see
another year.
Clara, troubled times are coming:, storm-clouds
gather overhead
Thathwill burst in rain of ruin when your William
will be dead;
I am speaking as a prophet, one who sees beyond
the tomb—
Sees the sickness of the city through the dark
post-mortem gloom.
I oan see fierce fires of passion springing up from
little sparks,
Dropped among the dreary dailies by the hand of
’Enery Parkeg—
Lo! the Senate scorned and scoffed at, spurned
and spat upon I see;
Folly flaunting feeble falsehood-wisdom where
it should notibe;
Ancient knights arrayed in armour that ’twere
well were laid aside,
Making war with words, nor heeding how their
jousts are jeered and “ guyed”—
Parties that are victors vanquished ere their
vaunting voices vain
Scarce have ceased the rong of triumph—gainers
lose and losers gain.
See of men a meretricious medly mixed, and there
among
Many in peculiar places-wrong in right and right
in wrong—
See their frowning foreheads furrow, see their
faces gleam and gloat
O’er the wretched recolloction of the Donkey and
the Goat.
In the cheerless future clouded, then shall be a
wail of woe
Wafted to the skies for wanton, wicked waste of
long ago:
Damned shall be the day when Dailey dazed a
dreaming people’s eyes—
Tempting them to talk in triumph of the deed
they now despise.
Clara, kiss me, come you closer, ere my sinking
sun is set,
Still another painful picture I must put before you
yet:
Put a picture of the future, meaner never man
could paint—
’Tis a city grimed with grovel, tainted with a
slavish taint.
’Tis a people, born to freedom, bending in
obeisance base—
Round the foolish throne of Fashion fighting for
a foremost place;
Yielding all their independence— heritage of
honoured years—
Truckling down to rank and riches, jq a
where aU are peere.
BARS TO BARR BEHIND THE BARS.
Henry Barr, Henry Barr,
Do you thankfully refiect
What a lucky dog you are ?
For they treated with respect
Your pleadings to be saved
From your own unhappy self,
And concluded that you craved
To be laid upon tfhe shelf—
Tra-la-la I Henry Barr, tra-la-la I
Henry Barr, Henry Barr,
You should surely be content—
What a lucky dog you are I
What a fortune-favoured gent!
Free from fancies and from fears
You can take a lengthened spell,
And watch the flight of years
From your cosy dungeon ceil—
Tra-la-la I Henry Barr, tra-la-la I
Henry Barr, Henry Barr,
Tho’ the days may often drag,
You’ll get victuals regu -Icur
(And they sometimes “ plant a swag ”);
Men outside may know distress,
But little need you care;
Oh, that Judge you ought to bless
For responding to your prayer—
Tra-la-la I Henry Barr, tra-la-la!
Henry Barr, Henry Barr,
Time presses, we must cease,
Let tho twang of our guitar
No more disturb your peace.
Farewell! and if for aye
Still for ever fare thee well!
For we may have passed away
’Ere you abdicate your oell—
Tra-la-la! Henry Barr, tra-la-la!
A PASTORAL,
IN THREE KEYS.
B Flat.
Andante eon sentimento.
Tight cord pants, cabbage-tree;
Blue silk sash—tassels three;
Huge red hands, ponderous feet,
Bushman walking, Oxford-street.
Open-mouthed, jeweller’s shop—
Lingers, Moses murmurs “Sthopl” ;
Drags him in—sits him down—
“ Vatch and chain—sheap! fl’ poun’.”
Open coat—gorgeous chain;
Brilliant ring, sparkling pane—
Cabbage-tree aslant his brow—
Tight cord pants swagger now.
B Sharp.
Allegro ma mon troppo.
Loud check suit, radiant tie,
Jostles bushman passing by:
“ Beg your pardon—have a drink ?”
Nearest pub.—glasses chink.
Friend of check-suit beckoned in,
Glorious fellow—heaps of tin—
Beams upon the cabbage-tree
Tight cord pants and tassels three.
Envoi.
D Natural.
Empty pockets, peaceful snore;
Tight cord pants upon the iloor;
Vanished watch and gorgeous chain—
Curious match-hox /—same old game.
Reminiscences of the Season
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Come round again! alack! the years
Fly all too fleetly o’er us ;
The hells now ringing in our ears,
In merry Christmas chorus,
Brings buried mem’ries from their biers
And old scenes fresh before us.
I call to mind another day
When Christmas winds blew colder,
And, skating on the ice with May,
I took my breath and told her
The love which bloomed to fade away
Ere we were twelve months older.
Gone is May, and gone is youth,
No sweethearts can I boast now ;
Boyhood’s hope, and trust, and truth
Are all forever lost now,
With many another maid, forsooth,
Who cometh as a ghost now.
There’s Kate, a sprig of mistletoe
Upholding to invite me.
And Topsy, tripping o’er the snow
With cousin Jack to spite me ;
Sweet syrens of the long ago,
Begone! for ye affright me.
Hence ! visions of that vanished time,
Recalling love’s light treason ;
Here summer in it’s sunny prime
Makes glad the Christmas season;
Instead of wintry snow and rime,
Gay blossoms hang the trees on.
Youth is dead—a written page, >
Its winters now are summers,
The part I played upon the stage
I yield to younger mummers ;
Love bids adieu to middle-age
And smiles upon new comers.
Youth’s bright dreams are fled for aye,
More sober joys efface them ;
I’ll find me other parts to play—
God grant I’ll not disgrace them,
For young and old have each their day,
liil youDg and old replace them.
Clang on then, bells, although the years
Fly all too fleetly o’er us,
Your chimes are welcome to our ears,
There’s music in your chorus;
Why weep wo unavailing tears—
Have none grown old before us?
Melbourne, December 2i.


BRIEF MENTION.
Dr. Jefferis objects to a theatre being
erected next door to his church. Why, his church
is “next door,” to a theatre even now.
A London Radical paper says that Queen
Victoria cannot spend her income. The announce-
ment is premature. We haven’t heard that she
has ever tried.
| It was rumoured last week that!
I Mudgee Taylor had gone to the Arc-f
| tic regions. It was too good to be!
| true. The report originated from!
| the fact of Mr. Taylor having ap-g
|peared on the streets of London!
i with an unusually heavy top-coat! 1
f The convicts of Victoria are to!
| he dressed in “ knickerbockers with |
| striped stockings.” This wibmeanj
| a great increase in criminal statis- ]
itics, as the costume is one that alii
I the dudes will take to amazingly, f
We promised-our family a picnic
on Christmas. We are'a man of
pur wora.
P? A curious Jewish ceremony of blessing a newly-discovered gold-mine took!
Iplace up country, last week. The Rabbi appeared in a very ancient costume J
fturned his face to the East and called upon Moses and Aaron to do the handsome®
jthing. The mine has already paid big money.
Lftf™ Coo f.' s Kum Bottle-Blue Ribbon Man: “tl
questlonable taste to such relics in a public!
»»• bome J
'A denizen.of Kempsey caught a monster flathead last
week at Arakoon m a most sportsmanlike . manner sitting
fbul la" °h 1 T r ° ck " ’’ A[l we can is, that if monster
nl in ff 1 W) upon , chairs on thc they can’t com-
plain it they are caught.
P" Art Gallery in the Domain was
t week. The only picture there
is the “Captive,” for which a dis-
ion of Lord Carington stood
t least, it is the only one men-
ewspaper reports of the opening.
I A North Shore M.P. has huilt a high brick wall all round a
I neighbour’s terraces, from the top of which wall a fine -view of
I the harbour may be obtained.
* I take it the Ws have it,” said the chairman of a nubhV
meetirg at Bt. Leonards, when a resolution was voted upon to
petition Government for a sewage system.
Pictorial Paragraphs.
“ What is this disease that is coming upon
us ?” asks a big heading in all the country papers.
We don’t know, but we suppose that it's the jim-
jams, as usual.
From the London War Cry:—“Major
Tucker will be at the Salvation Barracks, George-
street, Camberwell, attired in Indian costume,
with bare feet, all day on Sunday.”
A Far Northern paper says“ We are
sorry that Mrs. has this week been very ill of,
the prevailing complaint.” This is somewhat am-
biguous, but the editor doubtless meant well.
When we were up there the prevailing complaint
was Bum.
Advertisement from Melbourne paper
“Mr. and Mrs.” (Ikey Moses will do) "having
left off clothes of every description, they invite
thorough inspection by the public.”
“The Queenscliffe (Vic.) baths having silted
Up, even the local aldermen are not to be allowed
to use them in future.” Jt isn’t every corporation
which carries on its person enough mud to silt up
the sea.
Advertisement from the Western Daily
Mercury:—“ Wanted, a God-fearing lawyer, a
true son of light, to conduct a law case. Write
Box 93, Mercury office, Plymouth.” How can a
child of the Devil be a son of light ?
It was night. Husband and wife were
walking down the Manly pier bickering. Husband
says suddenly, “I’m sick of it all. I'm d—d if I
doa’t drown myself,” Wife replies calmly, “Do
dear; but give me your watch and that seven-and-
sixpenoe you have in your pocket first.” There
was no inquest.
The Bega Free Press says“ The Globe
is a new Sydney evening paper, it is a cut above
the usual evening filth issued in Sydney, and no
man need blush to bring it into his family.” The
Begar ought to be burned. Why, the Echo, and
if he doesn’t mean the Echo he ought to say so,
is written wholly by the clergy and other ladies,
and i§ taken in at all the refuges in the c'ty.
Says Thadeus O’Kane, of the Northern
Miner:—“ Not a forty-parson invocation could
fetch one drop of rain out of our brazen skies. A
plain parson could no more do it than a plain
turkey—a bishop would make more noise with
like result.”
We see by the Sydney morning journals
that “a meeting of residents of Botany has ap-
pointed a Progress Association to watch over the
interests of the suburbs.” There is probably no
connection between this determination and th 6
fact that the Chinese Christians at Botany hare
become numerous enough to require a Church for
themselves. Still, coming just at this season, when
poultry is In such request, it, no doubt, means
something.
The Tenterfield Star regrets that “owing
to unforeseen circumstances the Issue of Its
Christmas supplement Is delayed a week.” Brother
Pillar, have you ever read of an American gentle-
man named Washington who, In his early day*.
could not tell a story? Why not let the publio
into the secret. Tell them some of the boys were
“ on it,” but as you have them all locked up in
the composing-room this week, the sup. will come
forth, or the undertaker call.
“A juryman in a late case at Coota-
mundra, N.S.W., declared that he would never
have given In but he thought how lonely his young
wife would be without him if they were locked
up all night.” Love, we are told, “rules tb«
court, the camp, the grove,” It rules even the


Supreme Court This tender-hearted juryman no
doubt meant that he would feel more lonely if
looked up all night Iwith eleven other jurymen
than if Incarcerated with the one idol of his heart.
In Auoklaud. N.Z., lately, a young man
named Hlngstong was stung In the forehead by a
beo. In the evening, while walking with a friend, he
dropped down and shortly after expired. Verdict,
■•blood-poisoning, caused by the sting of a bee.”
The unfortunate young fellow’s name contained a
presage of his fate:—
Thine a most inglorious ending.
By a bumble-bee's sharp sting stung;
Ne’er you thought your heav’n-ward wending
Would thus be brought about, poor Hlngstong.
wit
ipll
Pf 1
Oat in the Cold.—Not in a Garrett, but very much Isolated.
“ Don’t have any fires going in the house
unless absolutely necessary. Uee cold foods, and
do without hot drinks.” This is a moan from
Wollongong. Let us give the writer more in-
formation on the subject. For instance: Shave
your head, and apply mustard blisters to the back
of your neck. Don’t, whatever you do, leave
your razors lying about loose; when you feel it
coming on, get some one to look them up for you.
Keep all precipices and ropes at a distanoe, and
then, probably, your life being spared, you won’t
see them again till next Christmas.
The pew-renters of St. James’ Church,
Sydney, havebe?n sitting in cinders and swathed
la eaok-ciQth for the tot At 1 p.m, on
Christmas Day Lord and Lady Carington attended
service there. As they were quite unexpected the
congregation did not number twenty. It was a
eruel blow, and the congregation felt it severely.
One thing, however, is certain. If only on the off
chance of another visit, no such meagre atten-
dance will be found in St. James’ for many a day.
As the Governor appears like Haroun A 1 Easchid
to turn up where least expected, an increase in
communicants and a rise in pow-rents are confi-
dently anticipated. At the same time, we entirely
discredit the rumours that Bishop Barry and his
Lordship have established a “ corner ” in pews,
and have bought in for the “rise.” This scanda-
lous story was probably set afloat by some
atrabilious secularist belonging to the Walker or
Bright mobs—the sort of person who would say
that Our Lady of Lourde3, or of Knock, appeared
in the slide of a magic-lantern before appearing
on the wall.
A painful rumour —happily unfounded, as
it afterwards appeared-spread through Sydney,
the other night. It was said that an accident of a
serious nature had happened to Cardinal Moran at
the “Soudan Encampment.” At this entertain-
ment, it will be remembered, a young lady of re-
tiring manners and good muscular development,
performs nightly on the trapeze. The other night,
as the Cardinal was passing under, the rope broke
and the artiste fell ©a his neck, This shews that
a man, even when devoted to religion, is never
secure from the advances of the fair sex. While
lookiDg for assault from below it oomes from
above. We, too, have had ladles fall upon our
neck, before now, but—not from a trapeze. This
should be a warning to people passing underneath
to keep their eye on the bar. But the affair, as we
said, turned out to be exaggerated. The per-
former fell, certainly, but she missed his Eminence,
who was already some yards away. It is a pity
that meddling persons can find nothing better to
do than circulate idle rumours which they might
know would cause pain.
TheN.S. W. Aborigines’ Protection Sooiety
. supplied the Yass niggers with the material for
making a plum pudding “to cheer their hearts on
Christmas Day.” Peter and Buteher undertook
to make the “duff.’ “You bin cboppem’ fat
Beter, me bin wash'em plums, un Pilly, you bin
fetohem big fella lot a wood.” So spoke Butcher,
and the camp was soon a scene of animation. The
duff was made [and dropped into a kerosene-tin
which, for the occasion, did duty as a boiler.
Beter, by instruction of Butcher, skimmed the
pot with his coolaman, aDd at the end of a couple
of hours the water was poured off. As it got
lower and lower the black-a-vised sous of the
forest gathered closer round the can, and when the
last drop of water was drained, and no duff fwas
visible, eucb a howl of disappointment went up as
haiaever before awakened the adjac.at sylvan
solitudes. The chef de cuisine had forgotten the
puddiug-bag, and the duff had been carefully
skimmed off the boiling water by Peter’s coolaman*
Inspector Brennan will superintend the making
of the next Christmas pudding himself.
The Sydney D.T. has at last come round
to the opinion that, in its own words, “ there are
more ways of killing a cat than by choking it with
butter.” There we differ. We’ve tried every
other plan, and are convinced that butter applied
in the manner suggested is the only never-failing
method yet discovered by science. But a good
deal depends upon the butter and not a little on
the cat. There is a genus of animal peculiar to
Wooiloomooloo upon which ordinary butter has Do
more effect than a barber's hair-restorer on a bald
patch. The oat simply eats it, retires to the top
o e the chimney to sleep off the effects, and then
si rolls back for another “pat.” But, then again,
there is a description of butter in use in a certain
Wynyard Square lodging house to which even this
breed would quickly succumb. Wo have seen
Stout, healthy-iooklDg mastiffs take one sniff at
this article and then wander morbidly through the
house for some obscure corner in which to die
decorously. At one time we were possessed of a
wild longing to see the animal that yielded this
commodity. But our ambition has changed.
Years have sobered us-not before it was time.
Now, we wouldn’t cross the street to see the cow
Oar only aim in life is to see the Wooiloomooloo
cat and the Wynyard Square butter brought into
j uxtaposition. They ought to beoome acq uainted,
and by the sacred beard of the Soudan Goat, they
aaall. J


Unsolicited testimonials from medicil gentlemen
testify to the merits of Wolfe s Schnapps.
Hero is Summer upon us, causing a mighty
thirst. Don’t fail to obtain your supi lr of Lemon-
ade, oeliZ :r. Sod r Water, Gingi-r Ale, Tonic, Potest
and LH,hi* Water (for Gout), of Calm ai>d Oerteh
JSrated Water and Cordial Menufaetureis,4o3 Pitt-
street- Delivered regularly in town and suburbs *
Experience teaches that Wolfe’s Schnapps
is more suited to the Colonies than either brandy
or whisky,
There are now about a thousand cases of
typhoid in Sydney and suburbs.
Lieutenant Immer Gosende and Of-Pum-
mel, who discovered the electrical tree in Ger-
man New Guinea are only realising m New
Guinea experiences familiar to several of the ex-
plorers of North Western Queensland. The Ger-
mans wrote advisedly that the cover of the tree
contained the electricity. This the Sydney D.T.
makes out to be the bark. We at one time en-
countered two North Queensland explorers com-
ing from the cover of a tree under which their
compasses and watches had not alone ceased to
act, but had actually disappeared, as for being
knocked down, the appearance of the men proved
that that had happened to them many times, and
that they had been roiled in the mud as well. It
was ascertained afterwards that there was a
shanty built against the tree. The D.T. in sub-
stituting for the deliberate word “cover” the
A Maitland man was iakmg a stroll, the
other day. thinking of just nothing at all,
when he inadvertently trod upon the tail
of a poisonous snake,
which at once sprang up, and bit him upon
the flDger.
He was at onoe placed upon horse-back, and hurried off to a dootor.
Who succeeded in extracting the snake, and
dressing the wounded finger.
Now it would appear that to treat a man successfully for snake-bite, it is a sine qua non that lira patient be kept
awake. To this purpose all Maitland turned out, and made things lively for the unfortunate victim.
As an extreme measure the Maitland brass band was called in, and “generously” (!) played the three tunes, which
they have learned, over and over again. Amid the crash of cymbals, the bra) ing of trombones, the grunting of tuba?,
and the thunder of big drums, the wretched man was heard to appeal to be allowed to die. But the band, having at
last found an auditor who couldn’t help himself, played on.
Strange to say, the victim recovered, in spite of
the band, but his reason has fled, and he has
taken to learning the cornet, without which in-
strument he now never ventures out. Similia
simiUbus curantur!
The Great Maitland Snaka-Bite Casa.
SIMILIA SIMLLIBUS CURANTUR.
word “bark” shows how incapable it is of intel-
ligently following the narratives of antipodean
explorers.
The “Carington” craze seems to have got
a much firmer hold on the N.B.W. public than the
cholera has ou the crew of the Dorucda. A
favourite hotel, in the Blue Mout tains, which,
erstwhile rejoiced in the name of the Great
Western, is now, wo hear, yclept the Carington.
Tnere arc just about three or four dozen Caring-
ton houses—halt of them barber’s shops - in Wool-
loomooloo, various Carington Halls and lodges in
Durand’s Alley and Kent street, inhabited by the
Kent-street warriors and Bussex-street militia.
Every second bush pub. is n ( w applying to be
known as the Oatington, and Carington “Ams”
and “ Clubs,” and “ Houses ” will soon be as com-
mon as Martian was after he rowed Beach, Lord
Ct'inffton will shortly supersede the Lord in the
estimation of our loyal oplonists, and to further
that desideratum, we have to note; Ice-cream van,
No. 242, formerly known as the “ Joy of Italy-I-
soream-One-penny,” will, after Ist proximo, be
entitled the “ CariDgton Freezer; ” the Mercantile
Owing Company will) assume the CariDgton
title; any ferryboat, without the Tenax in fide, will
after January 1, be boycotted. “ Caring ton-street,
“Carington Place,” “CariDgton Parade,” “Car-
ington Walk,” “Carington Drive,” may be ap-
cepted by the populace without adverse comment,
but the " Carington Full aud Plenty, all meals 6d.,
and the “Carington Monte de Piete, advances on
jewellery, &0., at lowest rates.” makes the thought-
ful citizen inclined to imagine the Carington
racket is getting worn thin. All the local Smiths
may be expected to petition for a change of name,
and Browns and Robinsons will follow suit. Tlm n
may we expect to see the Births oolumn of the
Daily Prevaricator embellished thus j— Smith.
—At her lodgings, Carington House, Carington-
street (late Yuromr-street), Carington (late Wool
loomooloo), the wife of Ebenezer Carington (late
Smith) of a son, to be called Carisgton Fitz-Car-
ington Garington date Smith).” Now let us change
the name of the colony to Caringtarla. Ihe latter
n»me won’t mean much, but it will be sbortc and
a deal prettier than ‘Now South Wales, - ’ which,
whenever we hear it, recalls the line—
“ Taffy was a Welshman, Taffy was a thief.”
N.B.W. was originally given its present name b°-
cause the first famllle* <■ ere mostly thieves. Yes,
Jet us have Carinctaria by all means.
The lower classes are not without, a
faculty for acid sarcasm. They do not ooin rew
words for their finest efforts. They simply lay
hold of a word or phrase, current among the higher
classes as an ex pression of admiration, and in vert its
signiflcaDoa. The practice is more prevalent than
anyone except a student of etymology wouid
think, and thesarcsomgoeesothorouvhlv 'hrough
tbe sub] set that it looks merely a blunder to tnose
on higher levels. A good instance occurs in the
examination of Eliza Armstrong’s father in the
Stead case:—“Your wife told me you had heard
all about the Palo Mall Gazette?— Yes, I heard
the ‘ chaps ’ at the top of the street reading it..
How long after the neighbours first began to talk ?
—I cannot tell you- I would not l sten to it. It
was too grand. (Laughter.) Mr. Justice Lopes:
What do you mean by grand? Witness: Beastly.
(Laughter.)”
The success of M. Pasteurs iu the treat-
ment of hydrophobia has put the people of Mail-
land, N.8.W., upon their mettle ; so, not to be
behind the time, they have introduced a new
method of curing snake-bite which—judging by
the result of the first case in which it was tried—
promises to open up a fresh field of usefulness for
itinerant musicians. The old method of treating
the bites of poisonous reptiles had many disadvan-
tages. It was to lop off the bitten member so that,
in places where venomous oreatures abounded, it
was customary for people having business in the
bush to bring a chopper or, at least, a carving
knife with them. The drawbacks to this system
are obvious. Indo d. casts have been knowu
where, the snakes being thick aud the traveller
unwary, he’s bad to part with all bit limbs aud a
portion of his trunk to save his life—had to go on,
in fact, dismembering himself UDtil nothing was
left for the ferocious thimrs to bite. But the
treatment adopted by Dr. tt. .1- Pierce, of Mait-
land, has rendered all th*se precautions unneces-
sary. On Tuesday last a-teamster named Michael
Dooley was bitten on the linger by a bbek snake.
Why this Protestant reptile, considering the lesson
taught his order many centuries ago in Ireland,
should have chosen a person named Mick Dooley
to vent his spite on is irrelevant, it might
have b9en out of revenge, and it might have
been through mistaking him for som 2 other citizen.
Mr. Dooley was at once conveyed to Dr. Pierce's
surgery, where— we quote the local paper—
“prompt steps where taken to relieve the unfor-
tunate man.” As the patient was kept walking
about for 12 hours, the “ prompt steps appear to
have been taken by himself Coma, however, was
rapidly clouding his faculties, till, as a last re-
source, the new treatment was brought into play.
It was the Maitland brass band. These ar ste,
although they have for but a short time practised
together, have already done more than a suc-
cession of hail-storms to keep people from block-
ing ud the footpaths. When Gooley heard they
were coming, he feebly moaned, What have i
done ? For God’s sake, let me die in peace! But,
nevertheless, they relentlessly ranged themselves
in a circle round the doomed man, and started
“ (Jarryowen.” In order to keep breath, in tho
sufferer these musicians manfully parted with
their own. The struggle was a severe one, and
might have been unsuccessful but for the vigour
of the professor who manipulated the trombone.
To him more than to any of the others the patient
owes hio life. Mick stood three blasts quietly, but
got up and assaulted him ou the fourth. Both are
now out of danger, but the artist is said to regret
that it wasn't he who whs bitten. Buoh is the Mait-
land treat rnenfc for suakv-hlte, and it only for its
possible eifeot in inducing Sydney Salvation Army
ba’dsand street organises to look for employ met t
in far-off. snateinfeßt-d districts, it will recom-
mend itself to metropolitan ratepayers.


Pofitical Points
In consequence of Riel’s execution, a
foweriul organisation has been formed among
'le r’ronch-Canadians to bring their province into
the Union, and enter the pale of American citizen-
ship.
We notice that Mr. Yarney Parkes, who
of late has been so obliging as to say all the
awkward tilings that Old Man Parkes thinks, is of
opinion that Mr. Thomas Garrett is not a person
Who Should hold office in a N.S.W. Government.
A JN\S.W. legislator got notice to attend a
meeting of the supporters of his party. At the
foot or the circular was the usual addendum,
1R.8.V.P. He never answered tho missive, and
le says, by way of exeuse, that he thought the
etters stood for “ Robert Smith, Vice-President.”
When the Queen’sg'son-in-law, the Mar-
ouis of Lome (who was rejected at last English
General Election), was addressing the electors at
Hampstead, he was greeted with cries of “Why
don’t you bring Loo with you?” “What have
you done with your hair?” and “How’s your
mother-in-iaw ?”
Says a correspondent of the China Mail :
—“Clear enough that the Chinese are going to
have railways; and the brutal despotism which the
English and French wield over the Chinese Empire
makes it exceedingly doubtful whether they will
be invited to participate in the work. It will
naturally go to Americans, if they care to under-
take it.
The Melbourne D.T. is not opposed to
labour candidates obtaining seats in the Victorian
Parliament, It thus steps ahead of the Age. But
it presently admonishes them “ not to represent
the interests of a class but of all classes.” That is
flat platitude. Think of John Murphy, the shoe-
maker, entering the House with the interests of
the millionaire, Mr. Francis Ormond, under his
wing! Wealthy men have always professed to
represent the interests of the workers, but they
have played the profession so low down that
every word of it is a hypocrisy.
Mr. Blaok, of Tarwin Station, South Qipps-
land, says oats are an effectual cure for rabbits
Once his station was infested with bunnies; he let
cats loose, and for 20 years not a rabbit has been
Been on his place. “as the rabbits become fewer,
the cats become hungrier, and look after the last
one. Some persons have asserted that cats had
been tried and been not a success, but they did
not add that in those cases, trapping, poisoning,
&o„ were going on at the same time and place;
of course killing off the cats, as they were the
fewest. And as a cat’s skin is much more valu-
able than dozens of rabbit skins, they are looked
after by the trappers.” It may be added that be-
fore the cats are let loose on a station, they should
be caged, pretty well starved for some days, and
then fed on live rabbits.
Dr. Beauey gave—we mean to say he was
given—a banquet at Melbourne Town Hali, the
other night, to celebrate his return to Victoria.
J. B. Patterson, the notorious Twelfth of July
man, was in the chair, and another noted "loyal-
ist” and pseudo-Radical, William Grey, Mayor of
Oollingwood, was among the speakers. In the
course of his post-prandial speech, Dr. Beaney ob-
served that “ there was no question that now was
the time for Home Rule in Ireland. The day was
not far distant when she would have it.” This
utterance fairly staggered Patterson and Co., who
were loud In their ejaculations of "Never! never!
never I” The Pattersons and Greys now declare
that before they again grace a banquet ball under
similar circumstances, they will take the precau-
tion beforehand to ascertain the guest’s opinion
on Home Rule for Ireland.
On the whole, the moribund Coalition
Ministry in Victoria have had a rather rosy time
of it. For three years they have led a servile,
dependent, cringing, and obsequious party; they
have nlacated their prominent proteges outside
the House with cosy billets and handsome
salaries; they have passed almost every measure
they launched in the Assembly; they received
support from an almost unanimous Press; they
drew their fat “screws” duriDg their term of
office; their Attorney-General (Mr. G. B Kerferd)
secured a Supreme Court Judgeship; their Chief
Seoretary (Mr. Graham Berry) comes in for
the Agent-Generalship; their Minister of Railways
(“ Dxudy ” Dunean Gillies) gets promoted to the
Premiership; their Solicitor-General (Mr. "Know-
nothing” Deakin) takes the place vacated by Mr.
Berry as leader of the “ Liberal ” section of the
Cabinet; and their sisters, cousins, uncles, and
aunts will doubtless be amply provided for in due
course.
Anyone interested in that class of litera-
ture commonly known as “Jesuitical” oannot do
better than closely and attentively peruse the
correspondence between Mr. Thomas Garrett,
M.L.A., and the eight politicians to whom he ap-
plied for a denial of the rumour that they had
refused office because It was proposed to include
him (Mr. Garrett) In the Robertson Ministry. No
better Illustration of the true character of Sir
Henry Parkes could possibly be found than his
smooth and plausible reply to Mr. Garrett, the
man whose non-expulsion from the Assembly a
year or two ago he characterised as “a red-hot
brand of shame” on the Parliament of the coun-
try. Mr. Garrett asked for eight replies and got
eight evasions. Several of Mr. Garrett’s corres-
pondents say that they weren’t aware at the time
that it was proposed to include him in the Ministry
Under these circumstances, the value of their
denials—which, as we have indicated, make inter-
esting reading—can readily be estimated.
Messrs. Slattery and Heydon are attor-
ney, and partners, in Sydney. But when they
take a hand in politics they play against one
another. Tom Slattery, the hon. member for Nagl -
ryaa, has but lately demonstrated his utter un-
fitness for the post of Minister for Justice m the
Dibbs’ Ministry. On his leaving that office, what
Is more natural than that Mr. Heydon should re-
ceive the seals of the Qepaitmeat from the hands
of his partner? This is a nice little family
arrangement, which the electors generally should
hail with fervid acclamation. If there was any-
thing save fame to be gleaned by honouraule
men in tbe field of politics, tho display of emotion
might be somewhat considerably otherwise. At
one timo it seemed as though the iirm of Pigotc
and Trickett was going to claim a perpetual lien
en one of the portfolios, but the senior partner
boosted up the arrangement by retiring from the
House altogether. By the way, some absurd
people have a ridiculous idea that Messrs. Hudson
Bros, always supply the Government of the day
with one Minister. This baseless rumour probably
owes its origin to the fact that on more than one
oooasion the firm named has been allowed to
obtain orders lor work or supplied without com-
petition by way of tender.
Some months ago we said that Chief Sec-
retary Berry, seeing that his popularity was
waning, would retire from the political arena and
go to England as Agent-General. We now And
that the wily Graham is going to take this
course, which is about the best thing he could do,
seeing that he can never again hope to lead the
Radical party in Victoria. Had Borry stuck to his
colours .right through ho would have had a life
lease of office, because in the Southern colony the
working- man is undoubtedly the strongest power
in the land. Berry, however, was too fond of the
loaves and fishes, and in order to make sure of the
emoluments of office, he scattered his Radicalism
to the winds, and coalesced with the Conserva-
tives whom he had been for years wildly denounc-
ing, and whom he once accused of having designs
on his precious life. Lately, the quondam Radical
chief has been coquetting witn the Salvation
Army and Rechabites in the hope that by so doing
he might regain some of his lost glory, but the
denunciations that have quite recently been
poured on him by the Melbourne Trades Hall
Council have shown him that his day in Victoria
is past, and he will now beat a retreat to the
Agent-General's office in London, and in due
course wnl be dubbed Sir Graham Berry,
although in days gone by he considered it not in
keeping with a Democratic sentiment for a
Democratic leader to accent a knighthood. But
then his recent associations have been intensely
Conservative and respectable, doncherknow, and
that makes all the difference.
Mr. Greville omitted from his diary one
important incident in the life of Queen Victoria.
QUALIFIED.
“ IT 'S BAD, WIL LIAM; WHY DIDN’T YOU GET INTO THE MINIBTEY? I’M ASSURED
THAT OLD ROBERTSON TOOK IN EVERY FOOL THAT WOULD CONSENT TO JOIN
HIM.
We mean her Majesty’s unreasonable conduct
towards Lady Flora Hastings. Prince Albert’s
dear little Vicky was jealous of this poor girl.
Her beauty and engaging ways won marked at-
Albert the Good.” In consequence
of this the Queen banished her from Court, and
report says that the Sovereign weat so far as to
slap Lady Flora n face before she left the Royal
presepce. Prince Albert received after this
episode many Caudte lectures, and the poor man
led anything but a happy life during the latter
part of his existence, as her Majesty was fre-
quently jealous of the ladies about the Court. Of
course, the Prince Consort did not oomplalu, as the
Queen was prime mover in giving him his various
sinecures, by which means he was enabled to
leave a sum behind him of not less than £600,000,
and which cannot amount to less than £1.000,000 at
the present moment. It is all very well, remarks
an English paper, “ for the sycophants about the
Court to assert that her Majesty is still mourning
for her late husband, but we take leave most re-
spectfully to doubt it, and make bold to say that
we believe the Queen is Sim ply • shirking Abra-
ham, for if her Majesty were inconsolable at the
loss of her husband all these years, she would have
A BIT OF EVOLUTION.
ratiied to a lay-sisterhood long ero this. Since the
death of that astute Scotchman, John Brown, the
Queen has appeared less in public than ever. Yet,
in spite of thi*, her Majesty and the Court cost tho
nation £15,000 a week, exclusive of the amount
her children receive out of the hard earnings of
the taxpayer.”
David Syrne, of the Melbourne Age, seems
to have “a big say ” in the making and unmiking
of Victorian Ministries. When the general elec-
tion, at the end of 1880. sent parties back to the
House pretty evenly divided, Graham Berry, in
order to obtain office, began to coquette with Sir
John O’shanassy, and had actually arranged to
form a Ministry which would give Sir John co-
equal powers whh himself, and include Sir Bryan
OvLoghlen as Attorney-General, when David Byrne
appeared upon the scene and intimated that any
allianoe between Berry and the Catholic
leader (Sir John) would cause the Age to “write
the Ministry out of oflioe.” Syrne a threat had
the desired tffeot. Mr. Berry discontinued nego-
tiations with Sir John O’Shauassy, and Sir Bryan
O’Logaluu declined to taka oifioo under a leader
Who would ftUovf himself to be “boased” by a
newspaper proprietor. The result was the forma-
tion of a weak Berry Ministry, which Sir Bryan
ousted from office, when forming this adminis-
tration, Berry completely overlooked the claims
to nffioe of his former faithful eolleagues, Messrs.
F. Locgmore and J. Woods, and his trusty little
henchman. Mr. Mirams. This was owing to the
fact that David Bymes had decreed that neither of
these three gentlemen should be made Cabinet
Ministers, although one of them—" Little ” Mirams
—has since managed to gain the good opinion of
David. We now find that in the reconstruction of
the Viotorian Ministry Mr. David Syme’s puppet,
Alfred Deakin, is to be made leader of the Liberal
seotion of the Cabinet, and doubtless any other
demands David may make will be promptly ac-
ceded to. It would not surprise us in the least to
learn that Ministerial places will also be alloted to
the other two Age scribes, Messrs. J. L. Dow and
Professor Pearson, and that David Byrne, his
brother, and his other male relations, will get
portfolios without office, and so beoome entitled
to always prefix Hon. to their names Then, when
that Government retires, the suoceedlDgione may
consist solely of the Syrces. and all the senior and
junior hacks on the staff of the Age.
Thus our London correspondent“ It is
probable that the celebration of the Queen’s
jubilee in June of next year will be on a very
grand and a very large soale. Notwithstanding all
that has been eaid and written to the contrary by
audacious and disloyal persons. Her Graeious
Majesty is immensely popular with the masses of
her subjects, who will, there can be no doubt, take
this golden opportunity of showing in a signal and
convincing manner their sinoere and hearty ap-
preciation of, and intense gratitude for, 50 years
of unselfish, and, in fact, self-sacrificing devotion
to the interests of the realm, and of her people at
J * r *e How basely ungrateful would be the
Eoglish, Irish, and Scotch—not to speak of the
populations of the various oolonies—were this
prognostication not realised I Thin* of tho pro-
verbial generosity of the Hanoverian Family which
displays itself so conspicuously in the case of the
present monarch 1 Reflect how,notwithstanding the
losses she has sustained in the untimely decease of
that noble, pious, and single-minded man, Albert
the Good ; that rugged, devoted, and self-sinking
friend gillie Brown, and many others of like ex-
cellence too numerous to mention. Her Majesty
has bravely dried her tears, afid stifling her only
too natural yearning for retirement, has eome
forth and moved among her sympathising sub-
jects, to the stlmulatlou and lasting benefit of
every trade and industry. Rumiuate how, when
the country was ia the throe* of a politioai crisis,
Our Sovereign Lady, being then in a distant part
of the kingdom-among, in faot, her loyal subjects
in Ireland—started immediately for the metro-
polis, travelling night and day until she reached
the scene of actiOD, saving jaded and anxious
statesmen the additional burden of a heavy
journey, and soothing the popular excitement as
oil soothes the troubled waters. Think, reflect,
ruminate, and ponder over these things, my dear
Bulletin, and those cynically-twisted lips may
regain thvir natural sweetness and softness of ex-
pression.”
Mr. Thomas Garrett has been very wroth
of late with the section of the Sydney Press which
has had the courage to remind him of oertain un-
pleasant incidents connected with his somewhat
remarkable political career, and he has been
equally annoyed by the asset tton that several
prominent members of the laio Opposition had re-
fused to join Sir John Robertson’s Government
because of the possibility of hie being included ia
it. With the frankness which so well becomes
him he says there is nothing clearer to a man
than his political character, and as he wished to
hare it recorded that his own was above reproach,
he wrote to several of the gentlemen who had re-
fused to join Sir John, asking them whether there
was any truth in the assertion referred to. A
natural thing for a man conscious of his own
rectitude to do, says the unsophisticated stranger,
who is ignorant of the ways of our politicians and
particularly of those of Mr. Garrett! Suppose the
assertion were tru*, what more likely than that a
polite “No” should be the answer to the friendly
inquiry, considering that the only person who
would be in a position to contradict it is the bosom
friend of the inquirer—a friend who sacrificed
office to save that friend from possible political
disgrace? But there was one case in which the
answer was “Yes.” That came from Mr. W. J.
Foster, who was Minister of Justice when the Mil-
burn Creek case was before Parliament, and who
was one of the minority of two who declared that,
in their opinion, Mr, Garrett had been guilty of
conduct unworthy of an M.P. No one can find
fault with Mr. Foster for his straightforwardness
in replying as he did to Mr. Garrett’s adroitly
worded communication; but we should like to
know how he can make that reply harmonise with
tds vote in favor of Mr. Garrett’s election as Chair-
man of Committees? Surely he does not wish it
to be understood that reasons which ought to
operate against the appointment of a member as a
Minister ought not to operate against his election
to the dignified position of Chairman of Com-
mittees and, as deputy-Speaker, the custodian of
the rights and privileges of the Assembly 1
The following, from Reynolds’, fits in ad-
mirably with the declarations recently made by
the English High Tory organs, that the whole
force of the Anglican Church would be employed
against the Radicals in the recent elections:—“The
ecclesiastical aristocracy are thundering ana-
themas against the people. The priests of the
so-called Churoh of England, every day and every-
where, are saying that the English democracy are
rude, ignorant, brutal, thieves, and immoral, for
wishing to disturb the relations between the
Church and the State. The ecclesiastical aris-
tocracy are showing themselves in their true
colours. They are simply frocked squires, only,
if anything, a little more malicious, as witness the
speech of the Bishop of Bath and Wells the other
day. The people can afford to laugh at their
clerical slanderers. They have long known them
to be wolves in sheep’s clothing, and now the
priests themselves are furnishing the proof.
Scarcely a day paeses but one of the State priests
Is charged by the police with seduction, drunken-
ness, or other gross immorality. Who can wonder?
The eons of the squirearchy and aristocracy, they
are only following the examples set them by their
esteemed fathers. . . . The origin of the Eng-
lish aristocracy is very well typified in their coats
of arms and heraldic designs. These were sup-
posed to show the most distinguishing charac-
teristics of the possessors and wearers. What do
we find ? The emblems of peace ? of intellect ? of
commerce? of concord? No; the designs of
robbers, murderers, pirates, eut-throats, tyrants,
oppressors, seducers. The lion roars to devour;
the tiger crouches to spring; the fox hides to
steal; thoßwordis uplifted to strike; the battle-
ments are raised to harass; the keys and chains
are there to bind. These are the symbols whiob
our robber aristocracy are proud to emblazon on
their carriages and in front of their mansions. It
is good. It reminds the people of the vengeance
due to those who are responsible for their degra-
dation and misery.”
The English Whigs or “moderate Liberals ”
are frauds, and the Marquess of Hartingtonis their
leader. Their sympathies are entirely aristocratic,
but they profess Liberalism on the hold-a-candle-
to-the-Devil principle. It can easily be understood
that no sympathy whatsoever really subsists be-
tween such a man as the bold revolutionist and
Republican, Joseph Chamberlain, and the flabby-
minded Marquess of Harrington-for how can the
latter, who is heir to the title and huge wealth of
his father, the Duke of Devonshire, love the Radi-
oals, who mean to kick out the Royal Family, dis-
establish the Church, abolish aristocratic titles,
and burst up the landowners ? Lord Randolph
Churchill (what a splendid Radical he would have
made had his father not been Duke of Marl-
borough!) thus walked round the “moderate
Liberals” in ihe person of Hartington:—“He has
opposed, feebly, it is true, but sulkily, almost
every single reform which the Liberal party
have ultimately carried. He continues to swal-
low doggedly, bit by bit, all the morsels of
the political programme which Mr. Chamberlain
ohucks at him (laughter), though the food is.
perhaps, the most revolting, the most nauseating,
that could possibly be supplied to any politician.
Ir you go to the Zoological Gardens on some par-
ticular day in the week you may have the good
fortune to observe the feeding of the boa con-
strictor, who is supplied with a great fat duck or
a rabbit. If you are lucky and patient, and if the
boa constrictor is hungry, you may be able to
trace the progress of the duck and the rabbit down
his throat, and all along the convolutions of his
body (laughter). Just in the same way, by meta-
phor and analogy, the English public can trace the
digestion and the deglutition by the Marquess of
Hartington of the various morsels of the Cnamber-
lam programme which from time to time are
handed to him (laughter); and the only difference
between the boa constrictor and the Marquess of
Hartington is this: that the boa constrictor enjoys
his food and thrives on It (Lughter), and Lord
Hartington loathes his food and it makes him sick
(laughter). But he continues painfully and labori-
ously to swallow it, for no other object than to
prolong his official career.” The days of the Whitrs
-of politicians of the Sir William M'Arthur typo-
are numbered in England. Tne “moderate
Liberals must now go over to their real friends,
the Tories, or go to the Devil. M’Arthur, M P..
the ingenious Australian, has gone to the Devil
The Radicals, at the Instigation of ChamberlaiD.
who is making the Liberals “swallow his duck
a 2 d J li i. rabl:,lfc all the time * ha ve kicked him out
of the Commons.
Concerning the case of Louis David Riel,
the London Echo wrote these manly words*—
The fate of Louis Riel, the leader of the Cana-
dian Rebellion, is still undecided. The date of his
execution has been delayed again and again—it
n o* B . t 2'. n< ' s Axed for Monday; but although no
official .intimation has been given, an uneasy im-
pression prevails that he will be hanged on that
day. This uneasiness Is not confined to the French
population of Canada, or to other sympathisers
with the half-breed leader. It extends to this
country, where those acquainted with the consti u-
“P 11 ., 0 * Caa adian soeiety foresee in the execution
of Kiel the renewal of bitter enmity between
English and rrench-speaking subjects of the
Dominion. It exists ia the United States, where
the indecision of the Dominion Government
has caused a revulsion of feeling in the
rebel leaders favour It exists even among
the ruling race in Canada, who know that
Riel, desperate and dangerous though he may
be. represented a living wrong, and who have
tired of their hate in the long period between
sentence and execution. This being so, we hope
tbe Dominion Government will temper justice
with mercy, and commute the sentence on Riel to
imprisonment for life. The Imperial Govern-
ment would not advise them to this course be-
cause, as Colonel Stanley said, ‘Canada has
managed the rebellion so well that she is the
nroper authority to deal with the rebel leader ’
President Cleveland would not give them his
counsel because it was bis custom to attend to
his own business, and lot other countries attend to
theirs. Ihe Canadian Government must decide
for themselves, and if, after so many delays and
respites, and after giving the rebel leader the
undoubted impression that his life was to ha
spared, they hang him, the example will he
profitless, simply showing how needlessly cruel
a Government, may be. It i 3 the glory of toe
Civil. War in America that, after tne last shot
was fired, there was no revenge. The hatchet
was buried, and all men returned quietly to
the business ot file. And yet there were a
dozen meu who, from the federal point of view
were far more culpable than Riel Is. The devasl
tation of the war, the ruin of cities and States, tbe
terrible charnel grounds might all have been
urged as justification fortho further shedding of
blood. But wish a magnanimity that >yjn com-


GOMPAGNONI GATERING GO., LIMITED,
PITT BTEBHT, SYDNEY. '
rilHB oldest and leading Catering Establishment In N.B.W. Caterers to His Worship the Mayor,
JL Municipal Counoil of Sydney, the A.J.C., City Club, &c., Ac.
The Dining Saloons for Ladies and Gentlemen are the Finest, Coollest, and loftiest In the oolony.
FIRST-CLASS MENU DAILY. Private Bar—Good Wine List.
BT GRILL ROOM now open. A Grill can be had at any time from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. (after the
Theatres. Select your own steak, Ac., and see it grilled in the room. This is one of the acquisitions
or the city, and a long-felt waut. Inspection invited. Club rooms of the Prince Alfred Yacht Clud
and City Club, upstairs. Si D. TOLLEMACME, General Manager.
Choice Presents
For Children!
For Adults!!
SUITABLE FOB EVENING PARTIES, OR FOR
INVALIDS.
Choice Perfumery, Is., Is. 6d„ 2s„ 2s. 6d.,and3s. 6d.
„ American (boxes) Confectionery, lOd.
„ French Crystalized Fruits, 3s. 6d. and up-
wards.
„ English Confeotionery, Is. fid. and 2s. fid.
„ „ Calfs-foot Jellies, variously flav-
oured, and plain, Is. fid., 2s.and 3s. each
„ Toilet articles for Ladles and Infants.
„ Amerioan Cashmere Soap, Is., and others,
fid., 9d., and Is. each.
„ French Soaps, fid. and Is.
„ English Soaps, 2d., 3d., Id., and fid.
„ Pear’s Soaps, fid., 3 for Is. Id.
And a thousand other articles of every-day con-
sumption, including the inimitable
AUSTRALIAN RELISH,
that modern appetiser, at Is.
Send for prlee-list (post free), and save money*
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
177, and 260 PITT STREET.
PEAUa’S
CHRISTMAS CARDS
AND
CHRISTMAS SATIN ART PRINTS.
ALXi STATIONERS.
Sole Agents, ROBERT JOLLEY & CO.
MELBOURNE and BYDNRY.
■A-Toraii-a ,jccL y a
The Great Liver Remedy.
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
■lightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ;so simple, yet most effective; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hoar that they have not afforded
Immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
to
tSt
“Mr. William Ball.-Dear Sir,—Allow me to say
that I find your ‘ Bloom of Peaches superior to
anything: of th© kind that I ever used before*
Yours truly, Emelib Melville.
“ Dear Sir,—l have never used anything equal to
your ‘ Bloom of Peaches.’— Maggie Moor*.
" Dear Sir,—l have the greatest pleasure in re-
commending Mr. Ball’s ‘ Bloom of Peaches and
‘Pett-Puder’ as Being invaluable.—Tours truly,
ALIO* K**B.” , „ . . .
To be obtainad of aU chemists,
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
“ PETT-PUDER,” a delicate and invisible
powder tor the face. Beautifully perfumed.
White, Pink, or Cream, to suit all complexions.
Price, 1/6 per box.
Manufactured only by
WILLIAM »AL L,
The “Professional” and pharmaceutical Chemist,
61 BOUKKE STREET, MELBOURNE. 1
Wholesale Agents for Sydney ;
Messrs. E. PROSSER & CO. ; Wholesale Chemists
T
HE AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIVE BTOCK
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital *lOO,OOO.
Head Office: Melbourne.
Victorian Directors :—Thomas Learmonth, Fsq_,
Chairman; John L. Dow. Esq., M.L.A.; J. E
Levien, Esq., M.L.A.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs Insured
against death.
Marine Risks accepted on Live Stock (covering
mortality); also on Merchandise and Hulls.
New South Wales Branoh: lU Castlereagh-street.
H. S. BADGERY, Managing Director.
H, M. HAMILTON, Manager.
TO FARMERS.
mHB CHEAP RAILWAY EXCURSION TRAINS
JL to GLEN INNBS during the next few weeks,
afford a favourable opportunity to inspect the
celebrated
FURRAGABAD FARMS,
ADJOINING GLEN INNES,
now fer Private Sale, on remarkably easy
terms.
Wonderfully rich and fertile soil.
Cleared and ready for the plough.
Permanently watered. Droughts unknown.
SMALL DEPOSITS, and LONG CREDIT.
The local manager on the estate will be pleased
to drive visitors over it, and give every informa-
tion respecting prices and terms.
JOHN W. DURSBUYY,
General Manager.
Offices: Corn Exchange, Hay market, Sydney.
m
WIMLIM.
LIMITED,
356 Goorge-sfreot,
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
PIANOS, ORGANS
and
MUSIC
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EAST TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues & Prices on Application.
W. H. PALING & Co.
3K6 Beorße-street, Sydney.
A Blessing in every Family.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT
There is not a eountry in the civilised world
where the healing virtues of these grand medi-
cines have not been recognised by thousands of
sufferers.
In all the ordinary ailments of humanity their
beneficent action is at once recognised.
Fullest directions are supplied for their use in
every disease.
IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London.
Purchasers should look to the Label on the
Boxes and Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-
street, London, they are spurious.
ARTiriCiALTFFTH
fOMFI-ETESFT
V -ftr. & loxjy K l
v* f
m
MARSHALL B^C!
DENTISTS
133
INTENDING VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
Should Carefully Preserve this Notice.
"THE WONDER” COACH
CARRIED 1935 PASSENGERS LAST PEA SO i>
Mr. P. J. Rumney, of “ RIDGE’S POOD” fame,
is still running his celebrated four-horse Stage
Coich, ‘“THE WONDBtt,” between London and
at. Albans, leaving Hatchett’s Hotel, in Piccadilly,
London, every morning at 10 45 returning to Pic-
cadilly at 5 45 p m.
Ample time is allowed at St. AlbaDS for lunch
and for passengers to inspect the CATHEDRAL,
which is on? of the FINEST and OLDEST IN THE
WORLD.
The trip is one of the most delightful that can
be taken, and the price charged for the re urn fare
is fifteen shillings.
For Time Cards and other particulars, apply to
“WONDER” Coach Offico, Hatchett’s Hotel,
Piccadilly, London, England.
ALL THE MOST
'Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS.
American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
ms co.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY,
ft- *
m
SPECIALLY IMPORTED FOR CITY OR COUNTRY USE.
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
STEELING QUALITY,
LOWEST PRICES.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
EVERY VEHICLE GUARANTEED
mand the admiration of centuries, the Northern
leaders threw the halter and the rifle aside, and
quietly set about the reconstruction of the Union.
We commend this great historical example to the
Canadian Government. Sir John Macdonald is
known to have said that a rupture between the
English and French speaking suojects of Canada
was sure to come, and that it might as well come
now. That is not the question. It is beyond dispute
that the half-breeds and the Indians have suffered
seriously at the hands of plundering land agents.
It is beyond dispute that promises were made to
them by the Canadian Government that were
never kept. No one denies that the movement
headed by Riel was more or less a national, or
rather tribal, movement, and that he represented
in his person the substantial grievances of those
who followed him. Massacre and murder must be
sternly put down in new countries: and the eight
Indian chiefs who were hanged for the Frog Lake
butchery rightly met their fate. But Riel’s move-
ments, futile and mistaken as they may have been,
were military movements. His motive was the
restoration of what he claimed to be native rights.
His act of rebellion, arid the murderous spirit he
aroused among the Indians, might have been held
to justify his execution, if it had been promptly
carried out. But to hang him now, after the delay
of weeks on weeks, during which he has been
buoyed up with the hope of life—after the bitter-
ness of the rebellion is passed—would be more
than cruel. It would be an ignoble act,”
Phil. Stuart is nearly as well known all
over Australasia as is Zulu Thompson. The Zulu
Is the bulkier man, and probably owns the show,
but Phil, has the >nicer moustache and has a good
deal to say in the show, too. Years ago, before
Phil, took to engineering dioramas and gracefully
Sosing before the curtain while he announces the
ates on which certain bldod-htaiaed historical
events happened, he lived in a Northern Queens-
land town. He had a companion there, one Charley
Black, and they had a friend named well,
A. W. J. Brown. Brown loved to gaze upon the
wine when it was red, and occasionally got over-
loaded; then Phil, and Charley would come to his
rescue. There used to be a tramway in the main
street, and on this a single hand truck was run for
fetching light parcels from the wharf. Brown
would be placed on the truck—it was a down
grade run to the wharf—and when he was fixed
right, the boys would give her a start. When she
brought up at the buffers Brown would dismount.
Then he would be gently led home, and about
2 or 3 a.m. they would visit him, lire revolvers,
and shout wildly, " Blacks, Brown; blacks I” He
would clutch his shooter, dart out of bed and join
them, and the hopeful couple would rush along
firing and shouting till the populace were
awakened. The boys would then quietly double
on Brown and go home, leaving him to ex-
plain matters, and in the morning calmly
assure him that he must have dreamt the
whole affair. Eventually they made a prac-
tice of watching BrowD, and when he went
to get a drink at any of the hotels, the truck was
drawn up alongside, and the moment he appeared
he was placed aboard and taken away. If he re-
monstrated he was informed this was for his own
good. Brown at length left the town. He could
not stand the boys, they made his life a burden.
They were too kind. “Ifl go out the door," ha
Observed to a friend, “those fellows are along
with that truck; it’s too much; I’ll have to
eave.” Which he did. Then the hoys used to
haunt the wharf when the steamers put in. If
any.passengers were getting off Phil, would at
once hasten to assist them (the males, of course).
The gang-plank was narrow; Phil would stand in
the middle of it, and mark time, and as it gently
oscillated, the passenger's stride! would beoome
uncertain. He would step suddenly where the
plank” was not, and pick himself and his luggage
out of the water below; while Phil., with most
unctuous benevolence, would hasten to assist
him, and complain that better means of transit
were not provided. Then he and Charley Invested
in a horse and dray. They purposed carting bulk
goods from the wharf. The first trip they made
was the last. The beast would not “ back” close
to the goods which were to be shifted.
Phil, walked up to his head, caught the
reins, and hit him in the nose. The
horse at once backed over the wharf and
was drowned. The dray was recovered at low
water, but Phil, was full up of this business. Oc-
casionally he did Dot have all the laughing. One
eveniDg he was going to a ball in military (hussar)
coßtumo. He called his black servant and desired
him to polish bis boots. Tommy walked off on his I
mission and met Black. “ Hallo, Tommy, where
you go?” “Oh, Mas’r Phil, been yabber long a
me, big fellow poliss’em this one.” “ All right:
come op, me bin show ’em you,” said Charley, and
getting a tin of grease, he instructed the darkey
to rub it in. He did, till the fat soaked through,
and remarking, “ By golly, I think this one
good poliss’em,” repaired to Mas’r Phil, with the
boots. Two seconds afterwards he left the room
with the speed of a telegram. Phil,, with a mur-
derous glare in his eye, a Colt's six-shot in his
hand, and clad in similar garments to those worn
by Adam prior to the fall, pursued him hotly, but
Tommy eeoaped. Tommy never thoroughly un-
derstood those two fellows. They would call him
“ Good boy, Tommy,” ** Fine fellow, Tommy,” “ I
think me bin gib it harf-olown, tbixpence, long a
you,” and when Tommy approached they would
tire their revolvers, and, with sudden anger and
much profanity, chase him from the place.
Tommy alwayß thought them a little “off.” But
Phil, is respectable now. He is also a good rider.
He's in South Africa [or this would not appear.—
Ed B.]
I prefer Wolfe’s Schnapps tb Brandy or Whisky
—lt is a more wholesome spirit.
For a few days longer, 4s. in the £ allowed
off all previous prices of the beautiful china,
glass, and earthenware, for which Bray Bros., of
402 and 404 George-street, are so noted. Cali and
see their stock.*
Matches.
In the glare and hum of the Sydney street,
Stands a tiny child in his shoeless feet,
And dull in the ears of passers-by,
Bings in monotono still the same old cry—
“ Matches.”
When the street is dull and the night is sped,
And we Christian folk are at home in bed ;
When the baby squeals at the noon of night,
Comes the cry as the old man seeks a light—
“ Matches.”
When liis big toe bangs on the bedroom chair.
And his heels tip up in the darkened air,
As he trips o’er the washstand’s wealth of delf,
Comes a harsh remark to his other self—
“ .Matches.”
And ’tis so in the world of man and maid,
As they wander darkling and half afraid ;
From each secret soul comes the sounding sigh,
And a soft and murmuring pleading cry—
“ Match us.”
But in brimstone dipped and in phosphorus,
In life as in light ’tis a toss for us ;
Let us match as we may (though some do well)
There’s a sad suggestive kind of smell,
When we find our mate oft we think of—
“ Matches,”


Wolfes Schnapps is the only genuine
SCHNAt’t'S—Avoid all counterfeits and imitations.
’T'ia s !veet to sit on a mossy hank.
Between two mossy boulders,
If you are but dressed in a Summorfleld suit,,
Which electrifies all beholders *
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a standard medicinal beye-
rage, and %
daughters has become the
“WfcSKM' ,
And it is right that each colonial girl should
know
That the, cheapest and the choicest of the pants
which boy a require
Are supplied by Messrs. Summerfleld and Co.*
JjinRNiTUR a e how rooms.
BRADLEY, KEWTOH. and LAMB,
. O Connell end Sprina' streets, Sydney.
.Jf I)ItNIT V tin, HATSTANDB, jMid
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
FURNITURE, CENTRE and SID*
jLi, TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES.
BBADINO and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, In EXQUISITE
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
ALL CABINET!?, for Choice China, &c«
■ «. YERY ELSG A NT, just received. Bradley.
Newton, and Lamb,
OVELTIES in BOUDOIR andBOW WINDOW
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
N
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Grt&t variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and Q”Connell streets, Sydney.
Eight-bound bedroom suites.—The
Economic Bedroom. Suite, comprising ward*
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The* lot for M. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and JLAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE,—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.:
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80s,:
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £3 105.; Clothes Horses, fromlos.6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets*
-«3S"CSg
l 7jc' s
-£?QK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
ff&Utl strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Case- Free at rail or wharves for cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB. __
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs; also elegantly finished in
Embroidery, Plush, &c.
WHATNOTS, effective designs,
\J just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
OConnell-street.
Enamelled and jewelled mirrors, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
0 Connell-street.
T\RAWING-ROOM
U A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prioes, from 12a 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and lnex-
pensiye. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80a the pair.
Full suites for dining-room-side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-Btreet.
INING TABLES, with patent extending
serew, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
D
[ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK OHAIK—
Patented.
-v
BEES
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It Is simple, yet Ingenious ip its
construction; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern asb—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when ft ided. Price 80s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
2s, 6d. extra.
S
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
for
Portable. Various
WTON, and LAMB.
BAGATELLE BOA
_ Sizes. BRADLE
Framework lor drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
fjIRAMEWORK for
JL: TUBE, Handsome and Massive, In Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VjS&Y BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS arid Materials for Upb,olss©j?g,
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, aai
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-stroets.
BEDSTEADS, ‘nickel-platedandblaokand brass
, new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
XyRDDIN&.-AIl deacripSonia at lowest rates.
Jjl BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell and Spring streets.
ABHSTANDS, with marble, from 2Ss. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
W
■ AWN and PARK SEATS 6 feet long. Itustii
XI Cast-iron Standards, 15s. each. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb.
ENT WOOD FURNII' ORE.—A~ve?y tiompleb
* m*** lew m wrtcM,'
SOCIALS
Not a little ouriosity was manifested con-
cerning the Sydney Liedertafel concerts given on
Tuesday and Wednesday last in the Protestant
Hall, when Mr. Delaney made his first bow to the
public a* conductor of the society. Herr Yogrich’s
successor waltzed on to his stand with confidence
on his brow, which was fully justified by the
finish and vim of the first chorus. It is plain to he
seen that he is quite at home as a driller of voices.
“ I with her, my darling,” was a particularly fiae
rendering, and “ Nazareth,” with orchestral ac-
companiment, was an excellent finish to the con-
cert. As for the orchestra, perhaps the least said
about it the better. In tbe “ Zauberflite” the dis-
cords at times from the “winds’ were something
quite too awful. Mrs. Armstrong, who appeared
iu a rich brocaded satin gown of a subdued amber
hue, sang charmingly, and was encored for each of
her songs. “ The bird that came in spring” suited
her clear round voice to perfection, and after a lot
of persuasion, she gave “Dear Heart,” one of
Mattel’s tenderest songs. The lady’s singing was
universally admire!, and lent muoh attraction to
an otherwise rather colourless concert. The first
motto ran thus:
“ You are thrioe weloome to our humble walls;
You do us honour, and we shall requite it.”
Nobody thought of objecting to the humble walls
of the Protestant Hall, but it’s very certain a
great many did object to tne filthy state of thB
gallery floor, which looked as if it had never made
acquaintance with a scrubbing-brush. Thi? is too
had, especially when lull dress Is necessary. A
white satin gown isn’t improved after resting for a
couple of hours on a floor ot dry mud. The
Liedertafel will have enough to do if they hold to
their motto and “requite” the ladies who were
unfortunate enough to occupy the gallery those
nights. It’s a positive fact that not a few gentle-
men were oonstrained to imitate Sir Walter
Raleigh by throwing their coats down to make
dirt proteotors for dainty whit? satin shoes and
snowy silk trains. It was noticed that these
chivalrous ones were mostly married men—they
knew right well that it would take more cash to
replaoe the slippers and train than the coat. Sorry
to spoil the romance for you, ladies, all the same.
* - «
It would be equally as absurd to try and
worry through Christmas without turkey and
plum puddiDg as without the “Messiah.” There
was not a little wisdom in thePbilnarmonic Society
fixing their performance for Christmas night, as
in consequence of there being no counter attrac-
tions—excepting the Churches, which don’t count
—the attendance was bound to be large. Alons.
Kowalski, the new conductor of the Society,
wields his baton with the ease and dignity of a
maestro, and has the chorus and orchestra well in
band already. By reason of the Soudan Fair still /
holding the boards in the body of the Exhibition
building, the conoert was held in the gallery,
where ag many of the audience as could obtain
Seats did so whilst the surplus had to content
themselves down below. To aver that upon this
night the “Messiah” was rendered better than it
has ever before been in Sydney, is but faint praise
indeed, for either chorus or orchestra has ever
been more or less disappointing in former
productions. On Friday night, however, the
mass of voices and effective orchestra did
splendid work, and the grand oratorio was,
with few exceptions, satisfactory from beginning
to end. About 20 or 30 boys gave material assist-
ance in the chorus “ For unto us,” their young
voices ringing out clear and sharp throughout.
Mr. Boyle is either unsuited for oratorio, or else
oratorio disagrees with him. He gave “ Comfort
ye” with too much jerk and abruptness, and bis
sweet voice was certainly not at its best in “ But
thou didst not leave." On the other hand, pere
Hallewell was simply in his element, and was
especially himseif In ” Why do the nations.” Mrs.
Armstrong sang the soprano solos deliciously, and
was much applauded. Miss Marie St. Clair was in
good voice, and did her share in her old conscien-
tious style. That the Philharmonic Society did a
wise thing in electing Mons. Kowalski as the con-
ductor is unquestionable, and no one can deny
that this, the nrst concert given by them under his
able guidance, was, all things considered, an un-
doubted success.
* * *
That cookery, excellent and economical,
can be taught in classes, is now beyond a doubt.
Over 100 young women, with a considerable
sprinkling of married Jadies, have been attending
ibe cookery classes of the Board of Technical
Iducatinn, Piit-blreet Arcade, Sydney, during the
’ear, of the classes were made
bout ten days ago, when the results were most
satisfactory. At the President’s dinner, when the
Benior or advanced clashes presented an elaoorate
and recherche menu for the members of the Board,
16 of whom attended, the set was very creditable.
Mr. Baumann acted as professional examiner of
tbe cookery, and with Messrs. Russell (Govern-
ment ABtronomer), chairman and President, Judge
Windeyer, Mr. Trickett, and other gentlemen, ex-
pressed satisfaction at the evidences they had
enjoyed of the capabilities of the cookery class,
and of the instructress, Mrs. Btory. The classes
will now have a rts% and after the vacations will
be resumed in all stages, from the elementary to
the advanced or professional oooking.
* * *
Mr. An4 row Fairfax whites, with respect
tflOUy re his singing at Mr* Halle well’s
concert, that our criticisms were not generous,
but strictly just, Mr. Fairfax’s voioe was affeoted
by fatigue due t> an attack of gout Of course we
report on an artist s eingiog as we hear it, not on
his singing considered in relation to his general
health, and, anyhow, we could not very weil send
round after a performance to ask particular
artists whether they were “feeling unwell last
night.” Mr. Fairfax has a fine voice and good
taste: he has also de bon gout.
SOCIAL FIXTTTRR
Lady Carington’s Reception December 3
The Cardinal appears to dislike the stage
and all ila b-longims. There is to be no more
music by theatrical? at St. Mary’s. People who, in
the pursuit of their profession, are obliged to
wear tights on Saturday night are not to be al-
io -ed to compound with th? Evil One by singing
psalcnß on Sunday. There might be some reason
for this if the artistes insisted ou appearing in the
nkotr }n (he characters they represented'during
tfo week-df tiluiebeara and his Intended victims,
Gwofi vaad her talented sister, Mephfatopheles,
YutnYum, and the serial lady who Warbles as the
trapeze sands her wiizziog through space, di-
verted the seriousness of the faithful by oomiog
before them i.i boras and spangles But, so far as
we k-o v, they evince no such desire And, even
if they did. we submit that the presence in the
choir of a person with a satirical mouth, a pair of
bulding horns, and a pronounced tail would ba
rather a i aid to devotion thin otherwise. Indeed,
it is not certain that one possessing those pecu-
liarities doe* not dw-11 ia the vicinity of churches,
although he. of c mrss, avoids observation and
seldom ventures ioSi-ie. The oddest part of the
affair, howevr, I« that the Bishop, who would
protect hi* lam J 3 from the influence of those \*ho
nr. ike a living .bj niiktty watting’ for their lost
uUe4»U4 to a weird aeoompaniment of fiddles, or
by giving melodious expression to the woes of
TravUta. D b ind t o the raffl-s, the bazaars, the
fortune-tellings, and the well-favoured trnpe-
zienne at tbe Soudan Encimpmeat. It is surely a
conducive t> purity to iiiteti to Mozart’s glorious
twelfth mass, though the performer* make as
living by their gifts, as to witness a young lady,
however virtuous, hanging by her fort, from a
horiz mtal b ir. Like “ grace, ’’ the wava’of
|lastfos are hard |b uudeistauu. ’ '
Wednesday, Dac. 30.
Dear Peg,—Tho perpetuation of old-world
Christmas customs at the Antipodes in this very
hot weather does not seem, after all, to be a very
sensible proceeding; so much is lost in adapting
them to their novel surroundings that what re-
mains is a sort of make-believe festivity, though
none the less vigorously observed. If people
would only recognise the law of the eternal fitness
of things, and make Yule-tide a moveable feast,
how much more delightful a June Christmas
would be than a December one I This year Christ-
mas Day was a happy exoeption to the usual
soorehing sunshine and sultry heat, for the morn-
ing broke wet and gloomy as well eould be, with a
strong southerly blowing. But the prospect of a
cool, fresh day. with abundance of falling rain to
purify Insanitary Sydney, was too great a boon to
be regarded other than as a most welcome Christ-
mas box. Since then everything looks so fresh and
sweet after its mighty bath, the days have been
quite worth living. There have been no lack of
amusements for holiday-seekers, while Boxing
Day has become a matter of extension from Satur-
day till Monday evening. The shops were opened
on Monday, but the Banks and Government offices
sported their oaks till Tuesday. If this mania for
holidays continues to increase at the present rate,
we shall begin to loon upon work-days as a
pleasant refuge from the oeaseless query, “ How
shall we spend this anniversary or that birthday?”
On Tuesday, December 23nd, Mrs. Barry held a
large “At Home,” at Bishopseourt, In honour of
Lord and Lady Oarington, who were naturally the
guests of tbe afternoon. It was, as usual, an ex-
©eediogly pleasant gathering, in spite of the large
clerical element, which has always a sobering
effect upon the most irrational. Why, it is bard to
say; unless the mysterious influence lies la the
curl of the wide-awake, or the Puritanical expres-
sion of the clerical coat as seen from behind. At
the entrance of the garden was a pretty arch ot
ferns with the inscription “ Welcome to Bisbops-
court” in white lettering on red ground. Here
the Bishop and Mrs. Barry received their guests,
who passed on to disperse about the garden and
find refreshments in a marquee on the lawn.
About four o’clock Lord and Lady Carington
arrived, accompanied by Miss Harbord, Lord
Bertie, Captain Gasooigne, Mr. Leigh, and Mr.
WalliDgton. They remained some time, making
acquaintance and talklog to people. Lady Caring-
ton wore a pale-pink striped silk muslin with black
bonnet trimmed with pale-pink lisse and a spray
of leaves. Miss Harbord wore a white embroidered
lawn, with yellow straw hat. With regard to
other people, there was a general effect of languid
cream or biscuit dresses, fading in the distance
into white, touched up with contrasting velvet of
soft or sombre tints. Mrs. Barry was in black.
Mrs. W. Cooper wore brown foulard with an odd
basket-plait pattern all over it. Mrs. George
Knox, ficelle China silk, richly embroidered in
brown, with bonnet to matoh. Miss Eaid Mao-
Arthur wore a pretty white China silk. The
guests numbered over 150, and included Sir Alfred
and Lady Stephen, Miss Stephen, Miss 8. A. Ste-
phen, Miss Ethel Stephen, Lady and Miss Martin,
Sir William and Lady Manning, Lady Hay, Mr. and
Mrs. E. Knox, the Misses Knox, Mrs. G. Knox, Mr.
and Mrs. W. Cooper, Mrs.tand Miss Wilkinson, Mr.
and Mrs. Henry Mort, Mr. and the Misses Watt.
Mrs. Mackay, Mrs. and Miss Mao Arthur, Mrs.
Walter Lamb, Miss Lamb, Mrs. and Miss Cbadwiek,
Mrs. iLaidley, Mr. and Mrs. G. F. Wise, Mr. and
Mrs. R. B. Wise, Mr. E. G. Ward, Dr. and Mrs.
Corlette, Bishop Marsden, Archdeacon Qhilde,
Canon and Mrs. Moreton, Rev. Mr. and Mrs G.
North-Ash, Rev, Mr. and Mrs. A. yf, Bain, Rev.
Mr. Fulton, Mr. and Mrs. o‘. Roileston, Miss Rolle-
stoi}.
It is quite a relief to turn to something that is
neither fashion nor frivol to talk about. Any-
thing else is so hard to arrive at here, ;so you can
quite understand how comparatively pleasant an
occupation it was to make our way to the new
Art Gallery on Wednesday morning, enduring
muggy heat and a trying ;north-easter that we
might be there in time to see it formally opened by
Lord Carington. You know the |new building is
also in the Domain, but on the rising ground over-
looking Woolloomoolo Bay, so it is rather a longer
walk to reach it and has not the Gardens to slip
Into so easily afterwards. .4 great deal has been
said of its ugliness, and some ' odium 1 has been
cast upon the authorities for permitting such an
eye-sore to be perpetuated, but this has onbr been
at the instance of a (ew impetuous mortals who
found it easier ttf jump at § conclusion than to go
round to inquire (ntp the cause why our few art
treasures should be enshrined within four square
bpick walls, unrelieved by either windows or ap-
parent roof. Now, these too apt tongues must
feel rather nonplussed to find this is but the nu-
cleus of a future five-domed building, destined one
day to rival the beauty of our destroyed Garden
Palace. Once ins'de this gaol-iike structure, its
forbidding exterior is forgotten in the pleasure of
finding one's picture friends at least In a con-
genial atmosphere. The gallery is planned with a
large central court, from which radiate parallel
galleries, entered by black archways. The ground-
work of the wall is a deep purple crimson, which
throws up the pictures admirably. As there Is
abundance of wall-space, there is no longer that
bewildering crowding of subjects and colours Into
the least possible spaoe, whion made an excursion
to the old building so exhausting a process.
Punctually at 12 the oentral doors opened to
admit Lord and Lady Carington, attended by Lord
Bertie, in uniform (by the way he is evidently the
“show” aide-de-camp, and either doesn’t like it,
or else considers a bored expression de rigueur on
such occasions), Sir Alfred Stephen, Mr. E. L.
Monteflore, Mr. Du Faur, Bir Patrick Jennings,
and Mr. Trickett, M L.A , who esooyted them to a
da{? in the oanfcre of the room, round
whioh sat o£ stood the privileged few tfbo had the
good fortune to be ticket-holders. I was surprised
t)lfnd how few had cared to avail themselves of
tbi* ! private view of the new ‘gallery—but art aid
literature are not sufficiently remunerative to be
of groat moment to the u>aj >rity of a colonial
community. After their Exoelienoies had taken
up position, and Lady Stephen, Lady Martin, and
Mrs. Barry had been invited to flit the vacant
seats on their left and right, Sir Alfred read an
address, which was nicely to the point. Lord
Carington replied in a few informal words, de-
claring the butldiDg open. Some more neea-sary
statements were made by Mr. Da Faiiy,
the secretary and trustee of the- gallery,
then I- ?rd and Lady C.irinsrtan proceeded -to in-
opect th© pictures. The “Captive,” by Millais,
flrrpciany claimed their attention, because of its
connection with bis Lordship’s family. Tne
original of the picture—a fair golden-haired girl
—is now a niece by marriage. Lady Carington
wa3 in the same gown and bonnet as she wore at
the Barrack? last week. It is a matter of real re-
joicing that good taste and simplicity should have
such an all-powerful advocate on their stde-nof
that Sydney ever could have apeußed of any
wilful extravagance in the an<ftoateri*rhf
its feminine eidthes— but cb recur e sins of omissifti
ak well as bf oom mission. Atnoug those present
wore S r Alfred anl fady Stephen, Mis* Stephen,
\ Lady tin, tho "Afmacs Afonin, Sir
nlngs, Sir Edward Strickland, the Bishop and Mrs.
Barry, Colonel Speedy, Miss Bl&xl&nd, the Misses
Monteflore Mrs. Broadribb. Mr. and Mrs. W. H.
Trickett, Professor and Mrs. Gurney, Judge
Wtndeyer, Judge and Miss Fawcett, Mr. J R.
Mitchell, Mr. and Mrs Giies, Mr. and Mrs. Harold
M Lean, Mr. K Fosbery, the Misses Fosbery, Mr. J.
J. Calvert, Mr. G F. Wise, Mr. and Mrs. Burdekin,
Mr. Purvis, Mr. G irran, Mrs. G Monteflore, Mrs.
Barton, Mrs. Clarke, Captain Hoekyn, Mr. Her-
mann (H.M.B. Myrmidon),', Dr. 0. S. Fort, Mr.
Tutnell (H.M.S. Miranda), Mrs. and Miss Pedley,
Mr. Harnett, and many more.
The marriage of Mr. Sheppard Laidley, eldest
son of Mr. William Laidley, Hillside, Edgecliff
Road, with Miss Ethel Moore, fourth daugnter of
Mr. David Moore, Charnwood, St. Kilaa, Mel-
bourne, is fixed to take place in that oity on Wed-
nesday, 6th January.
The marriage of Mr. Robert Browning, barrister
at law, Sydney, with Miss Beatrice Lamb, third
daughter of Mr. Edward Lamb. Edgecliff Road,
will take place about the end of January.
The marriage of Dr. Soott-Scirving with Mis?
Lucy Hester, second daughter of the late Dr.
Hester and late Nurse Hester, of Prince Alfred
Hospital, is fixed for an early date in January.
An engagement is announced between Mr.
Arthur K. Craddock, P. and O. Service, Sydney,
son of Major Craddock, Sussex Militia, England,
and Miss E iith Lord, second daughter of the late
Mr. Edward Lord, Neutral Bay.
An engagement Is also announced between Mr.
William Newbery, mathematical master, Sydney
Grammar School, with Miss Chadwick, elaesc
daughter of Mr. Robert Chadwick, Arlington,
Edgecliff Road.
The marriago of Mr. T. Riddle, Melbourne, with
Miss Consett Stephen, Cintra,.Potts Point, eldest
daughter of the late Consett Stephen, ana grand-
daughter of Sir Alfred Stephen, K.C.B.Cr.C., is
fixed to take place early in February.
CORRA LYNN.
Coffee Palaoe, George-street, 20th Decem-
ber. Editor Bulletin. Sir,—l have rend your
reply to my letter and must thank you for your
offer to give me space to state my view on oapital
punishment and dogging. You Btate In your
reply that I believe “ humanity is kept moderately
straight by no other means than the lash and the
noose.” In this I will not argue in support of the
drat, but leave the decision of whether I am right
or wrong in my view to the Assembly on the bill
introduced by Mr. Harold Stephen. The decision
of that bill to decide the question. As to capital
punishment, however, I will give you a few facts,
and would like to bear what you have to say to
them. You tell me that in Franoe capital punish-
ment is rarely I know it, and need only
point te fjew Caledonia as thq result, Have you
read in the Herald the articles on the oonviots at.
present there ? If you have, what do you dnd ?
That 3§ per oept. of them are murderers, and that
some ot them (many, in faot) have committed as
many as six and seven murders single-handed.
I know that In Switzerland some years ago
capital punishment was abolished. And what was
the result? That it had to be introduced again in
a very short time because of the increase in the
number of murders and other crimes of violence.
You seem who ly opposed to hanging a man, no
matter wnat he does. As far as I have read. I have
not discovered that you propose any method of
dealing with murderers except that they shan't be
hanged. You advocated the reprieve of Johns,
the doubly-convicted attempted murderer, and he
was hanged. Can you tell me of any attempted
murders or stabbi ig cases (which were becoming
vwry common at tne time he was exeouted) in
Sydney or the colony generally since. Another
circumstance I would point out to you is that the
Kelly gang broke out in 1878—oan you tell me how
many bushrangers followed, during the two years
they reigned; and how many have started since
Ned Kelly was executed? At 1h • time the efforts
were made to get Johns reprieved it was sta'ed
that he was to be the “last victim to the law” (?
for the crime ’or whioh he suffered. Par-
liament has been sitting long enough since
then, but has ever a whisper of an
alteration in tbe Act bten heard? No, nor
never will be. These facts for themselved.
Your space could ba, much better employed than
It is at pre<?Pnt’(in advocating the repeal of lavs
on winch thei country it agieed that they are for
its well-being and the cause of law and order) by
really doing something in the interests of your
country .instead of bringing it Into contempt as you
are doing by endeavouring to bolster up absurd
theories without bringing torward any principles
to support your arguments.—Yours, respectfully,
William Carlton. P.S.— I do not nhiok it worth,
while to say any more about the Tester ‘ijase,
except that the prisoner had a motryp for the’
crime—revenge-and if you wefe thoroughly ac-
quainted with the Idcis Of the case you would
know this. Yoqr statement proves that you know
little nb,ciut them— l mean the facts— W. C.
Farewell.
Should our gladness be tempered with sorrow,
Ab Time, ’neath Eternity's sway,
Gives a New Year to each one to morrow ?
But the Old Year is dying to-day.
Has the Old Year no right to our sadness,
No claim for the bright dayß he gave,
That we hail the new oomer with gladness,
Ere the old friend is laid in his grave ?
There were days in the old year's reeording,
Sad days to full many a heart,
But each memory fondly is hoarding,
Some fair scenes ia which joy had a part.
Some oases each heart holds the greenest,
Some hours charged with hope newly born,
Sure Old Time tempers wisely the keenest,
Sharpest wind, to the lamb which is shorn.
To each baek is the burden adjusted;
Each cross seemed, p'r’aps, heavy to bear,
In tbe Future had aching hearts trusted.
Each had lessened his burden of care.
Let us give to the Old Year, In sorrow,
One word of deep, heartfelt farewell.
And the New Year which greets us to-morrow;
Brighter days through its distance may tell.
December 30.
A.O.
Been through a Window.
Why starts that tear from her dark brown eye ?
Why pales the red of her damask oheek ?
Is't mine the cause of her grief to seek,
The cause of the tear and the deep sad sigh ?
She thinks of me. as she sits alone,
And weeps for my loveless, dreary life,
To-night I asked her to be my wife;
She owned my love in her sweetest tone;
Good angels guard thee, my own, my own.
1 should be near thee thy grief to share,
To bear tbe load which will weigh thee down.
I dread the dog and the old man s frown,
Or I’d Soott, what is scenting the evening air!
Oaions—she’s eating them—draw the blind,
I’ll Bkip nor leave me a trace behind.


Full many an aching- is sad,
With weary sickness sore—
But clothed in tweed irom Summerfleld>,
Maa yearns tor nothing more,*
My medic \1 experience sa'isfhs me that Wolfe a
Schnapps s an excellent stimulant.
The breezes cf spring have a voice to the bard,
And seem to give him thi 8 advice:
If you would win fame purchase Summeifleid’a
pants,
They re unequalled for style, fit, and price.’ *
There is no better ludgp for what Jg geod tbaq
Germans—They always drink W
Mb. Da Ooubot Bbowni (late Deputy*
Ohaira&n of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,”
“ Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “ Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Arbitrator, Adviser,
and Mining Titles Ag*nt, Beret ford Chambers,
52 CiBtlvroagh-street, Sydney.*
In oomeiuenoe of the immense number
of persons who were unable to obtain ticke.B lor
tae Erira Township sale,on Boxing Day, arrange-
inoats have been made to continue the sale on
New Tear’s Day, and Saturday, January 2ud, for
wh ch special steamers have been chartered, par-
ticulars of which will be found in our advertising
columns.*
Balmy zopl yra lig ( ly flitting,
Shade me with your azure wing,
On Parnass is’ summit sitting
Aid me, C,io, while I sing.
Aid me, so that I may teJi jh
Flowing statzls shod wath rhyme
That at Summeifield’s theyi’ire selling
Suva tnat tit you every time *
Wolfe s „chnapps is particularly free from
iiisil oil as it is well aged before being bottled..
punctuality, and reasonably aane upon all or-
dinary points, we are unwilling to give that
lengthy notice to their performance Which their
enemies, if they have any, would delight to peruse.
* * •
Rickards and his crowd left the Sydney
Academy of Music on Wednesday nighh Sard
Dec. (for woich kindly action we applaud them
more than for anything they have done during
their stay), and on Christmas five the rising of the
rag revealed the familiar semi-circle of ebon faces,
with the truthful Bent at one corner and the
beautiful Keenan at the other. _lhe whine pro-
gramme is new, and some of the jokes as huge as
the appointment of Dan. O’Cennor to the Post-
master-Generalship. On Boxing Night the original
and excessively moral drama of * Piain Bui ana
Black-hide Susan ” was put on, but space does not
permit of a description of this in the present issue.
And, by-the-way, just a little of Billy Warners
business is hardly consonant with the ethics ot
negro minstrelsy. His effort to put bis hand down
Sam Keenan’s throat, for instance, seems foreign
to the rest of the business, and his failure to do
what should be the easiest of efforts earns him the
just reproaches of the house.
We took advantage of the holidays to
visit the Sydney waxworks. The doors wece
thronged by a crowd of eager seekers for excite-
ment. Joining the “ push ”we passed through
the curtained doorway and found ourselves at
once in the presence of the authority for the
establishment of Christmas. The attraction on
the lower floor is the beautiful group of mothers
and ohildren seeking the blessing of the Saviour.
Walter Montgomery and William Bhakespeare
occupy the same floor. The giant musical-box and
the man who takes the chock-tickets are the only
other objects of interest on the lower flat. The
Royal family, the Kelly gang, and other plunderers
of the public are to be met with higher up; but
chief amongst the attractions afforded by the 160
figures which make up the show is Clara Crosble,
the heroine of a2l days’ outing in the bush. The
facts in connection with Clara’s disappearance are
known to the public, and may be learned more
fully from the litt'e lady herself, who, in answer to
questions, tells her story or such fragments of
it as the public may choose to know. She is a
pretty, engaging child, and we would wiliißgly
spend a like period in solitude, if sure of getting
out alive, to secure her youthful beauty ana
plumpness. But it may not be. It will be remem-
bered that Clara was accused of keeping alive on a
diet of “Army” hymns and freshwater. While
owning the water, the little one emphatically
denied the sustaining power of the hymns. In
answer to an enquiry, she stated that she didn t
know what she was singing.” “ Did you think, if
you used those hymns, anyone would come ?
“No,” with such an emphatic shake of the head
and curve of the lip as leads us to suppose that
the “ Kerristian ” crowd have made capital out of
her musical murmurs in the troubles of hungry
delirium.
* * *
* After viewing the bushrangers and out-
laws, the Phoenix Park murderers, and the Tich-
borne Claimant, we slid down the bannisters and
cleared.
m# * #
According to latest advices Adelina Patti
and her faithful Nicolini are to crown their long
years of happiness by getting legally married-
next June. To wait a few more months won t
make much odds to a couple who have already
freely exercised the virtue of patience. Beside: 1 ,
it would be indecorous to go rushing to the par-
son straight away. Patti, it is true, has been
fairly quit of the Marquis de Caux for some time
now, butNic. has only just procured a divorce
from his “missus.” There is arule of etiquette to be
observed in these r matters. When a man bids a
final adieu to the supposititious partner of his bed
and board, he is supposed to pause awhile before
making “ other arrangements.” So the diva and
her Nio. will not be duly qualified to fling the
fire-irons about until June next. On the U.l.
they may have already engaged in many a llitlr
skirmish. But such passages at arms lack the
deadly intensity attaching to wedded life. Loving
pairs are never really engaavd until they are
married.
New Year’s Eve.
A SEASONABLE SERMON.
The bells of the churches are chiming:
The knell of another old year;
With a merry, irregular rhyming
They lull him to sleep in hi® bier j
Ah 5 with that old year’s dissolution,
It may he that most of us mourn
The death of some good resolution
We made in the hour he was born.
You vowed to forsake vicious courses—
Race-courses you probably barred—
The practice of betting on horses
You made up your mind to discard
As the source of embarrassing troubles,
The mainspring of mischief and woe—
Yet still you are dabbling in “doubles,”
And reaping the sorrow they sow.
A hundred and one small expenses
You meant to indulge in no morfl—
On what puerile, petty pretences
Were broken the oaths you then swore ?
That night you were anxious and willing
To start the next morning to save.
But now you are pressed for a shilling,
And wishing yourself in your grave.
Rum, gin, and such poisonous lotions,
I4st year you resolved to abjure
In favour of innocent potions
Of water, well-filtered and pure;
From habits so hurtful to j?eyer
I® hard (oh, with feeling wo speak);
Your drinks have been stronger than pyiey—
’Tis only the flesh has been I Dealt.
The girls, yes, the girls so beguiling
(Which some of ’em are, we must own,
Most sweetly seductive and smiling)
You said you would leave ’em alone;
Would keep yourself free from flirtations
That tend but to worry and vex;
Now, how about present relations
•’Twixt you and the opposite sex?
Ah, alas I for vain pledges soon broken,
The small voice of conscience soon stilled—
For tender words thoughtlessly spoken,
For virtuous vows unfulfilled;
Folly, frailty, treachery, treason,
Cards, betting, dice, billiards and beer—
Renounce them once more (’tis the season,
’Tis the E re of another New Year.)
{The .hells of the chuches now chiming,
T&ey scoff us, and chide us, and scold,
A 3 with mepry, irregular rhyming
They ring out the year that is old;
And with thaA Gld Year’s dissolution
We doubt not, while most of lis ipourn
The death of some rash resolution^;,
AS many again will be born.
BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
Friday’s incessant rain presaged badly for
the Summer Meeting of the Australian Jockey
Club on the morrow, but the “ Jobnny-Knew-
RllB” in the weather line were badly at tault, tor
Saturday turned out a lovely day. Perfect
weather, the Drospect of a good day s sport, and
—last but not least—the presence of Carington and
party did the trick, and the attendance proved
the largest ever known on Randwick course.
Catoola, who started at 3 to 1, made a win of the
Hurdle race by three lengths from Student, Beau
Brummell third; and Pnilip Augustus, at even
money, appropriated the December Stakes by
three quarters of a length from Klngsgrove, who
defeated Blairgowrie by a neck for third place.
Nineteen saddled up for the Summer Cup, bt.
Lawrence naving the greatest call at 3 to 1, but by
the time the nomo turn was negotiated he was out
of the hunt, and Cerise and Blue coming away
from her field looked all over a winner, but a
hundred yards from home Tempe came through
with a rush, and, cutting the mare down, won
i?ith three lengths to the good, Ben Bolt third, a
length away from Cerise and Biue. Peter won
the Selling Plate; Trident beat Kathleen by a
length for the Christmas Gift, Crossfire a length
and a half away, third; Brigantine and Emi ine
raa a dead heat for the Two-year-old Plate; and
Sterling defeated King’s Own by half a length lor
the A.J C. Handicap, Recruit two lengths away,
totrd, in the run off for tne Two-year-old Plate
Brigantine defeated JtSmlline by a couple of feet
after a great set-to.
* • 8
The lads Bitton and Floyd met on Caul-
field Racecourse in a glove fight, on Wednesday
week last, when Bitton proved the viotor in 37
rounds. Nathan, who seconded Floyd, claimed a
foul at one portion of the fight, and then struck
at Hioken, who was picking up Bitton, but, with
the exception of this little turn-up, the affair came
to a finish in an orderly manner. In the middle of
the encounter a trooper rode up and ordered the
men to stop, but, beyond a little -‘clnff,” no atten-
tion was paid to the oommand, and the “ trap ’
very sensibly saw th«s sport to a finish, when he
annexed the gloves.
ONLY ONCE A YEAR!
YOUNG HUSBAND: “NOW, LOVE, WHICH WILL YOU HAVE-THE CHATELAINE
WATCH, THE BRACELETS, OH THE NECKLACE?"
YOUNG WIFE: “WE MUST AVOID UNNECESSARY EXPENSE, DEAR. I’M SURE IF YOU
BUY ALL THREE THE MAN WILL GIVE YOU A REDUCTION ON THEM. I'M
YOUR OWN BAYING, ECONOMICAL LITTLE WIFEY, AINTI?”
Fashionable item from an exchange;—
“Jem Mace has decided to return to Australia,
and will not visit America.’* Jem—who is now in
his fifty-fourth year—was considered by those
“who ought to know, you know,” the most
scientific pugilist the world has ever produced,
but in the bringing out line he has met with very
poor success, if we except our own chsmpion,
Larry Foley, whom he trained for his fight with
Hicken. We have no doubt Larry will confess he
had no idea there was so much in the game until
he dropped across Mace. Jem Mace’s first shy for
the championship was with Bam Hurst, to whom
he had to give away no less than sst. Hurst
proved merely a huge chopping-block for Mace,
who was returned the victor In eight rounds last-
ing 50 minutes. Mace then met and defeated Tom
King, whose gft. l£4in. and 13st. made him look big
enough to wafce a pioythful of lOsfc. 101 b. Jem.
King and Mace met for a'fgoona’tithe on ?3tn
November, 1863. In the 19 th round, Jem had gir gr
pretty well beaten, but m working into position
for a cross-counter with the right, which he, no
doubt, intended to make a finisher, he threw him-
self open, and King landed a terrific right-hander
on Mace f s left cheek. Jem came down all of a
heap, and although he struggled gamely for a
couple of rounds more, his friends were compelled
to throw up the sponge. The battle lasted 38
minutes.
* * *
An exciting conflict it must have been
between Miiler and Dinnie, at the Adelaide Oval
on Saturday last, when they met in a wrestling
mateh for “ £lOO aside and the ohampionshio.”
Miller won the Graeco-Roman, and Dinni© the
Seoteh style, and the affair was declared a draw.
Yery appropriate, too, for the affair drew some
4006 people together.
* * *
Hughenden (Queensland) raoes on Mon-
day, 38th December, were very successful. Fine
weather and'good attendances favoured the meet,
and the winners were as follows:—Maiden Plate-
Barmaid. Publican’s Purse: Crazy Jane. Hurdle::
Beeswing. Flying Handicap: Mendicant. Christ-
mas Handicap 1 ; Davis Beeswing. Hack Raoe,
Bam. '»
* ■ *
From England we leayn that Mr, Edvyard
Weathirby having resigned the position orcmdial
handicapper to the Jobkey Club,lt is now stated
on What professes to be authority that the Earl of
Westmoreland, a member of that august body, and
at one time a prominent owner of norses, but of
late a sort of agent and manager for other owners,
Is to accept the position, and become therefore a
paid racing ofliciah They have already a real live
Lord as a paid starter, and in face of the above
rumour, it is hard to predict what will be the end
of racing professionalism, now that its berths arc
coveted by lords who have lost their money on the
turf, and lords who never had any money to lose.
We shall not be surprised to hear from the sport-
ing papers that ‘'Lord Much on Isle of Worms,
cleverly defeated Archer s mount by a nose,” and
that ‘‘the owner of Isle of Worms, Mr. Thomas
Brown, ex-butcher, presentedlan extra ‘pony ’ to
his Lordship for his excellent riding.”
5> * *
The English billiardlsts W. J. Peall and W.
Mitchell re ently played a match of 15,000 up.
Early in the game it was evident that both players
were in splendid form. Breaks of over 1000
were made on six occasions— once by Mitchell and
five times by Peall. Although Peall did not quite
equal his score mad j at Cambridge in May, 1884,
wnen playing at We Rooms, he made me
unprecedented break of 1989; this he, however,
nearly equalled whea he, m most brilliant and
rapid fssaion made the astounding number of
1,922 (HO and 524 spots), thus getting to within 67 of
his previous lecord. Peall* failure in reaching
2 000 must have been provoking to the player, as
Mr. C. Howard bad offered to give £lOO to the first
of tue players making that number duriug the
week. Peall, who won the match by 5,365 points,
created a new record by making the wonderful
number ot 91 sacc eslve screw back shots.
* * *
The Rosehitl Racing Club meeting was
largely attended on Monday last. The beautiful
course and surroundings taae the public by storm,
and it only requires a line of rails to the ground
to ma’*e it run Randwick very close in point of
popularity. The ball was set rolling with the
Hurdle Race, for which Hector was started at 6 to
4 on, and he justified the confidence placed in him
by winning with a deal in hand from Uhlan, B au
Brummel, third. Kingston won the Selling Plate
from See Saw. KiDg?grove, at 3 tol ou, won he
Two-Year-Old Handicap from .>iy Lord, Brigan-
tine third. Peter appropriated the S e war Js‘ Cup
by three lengths from Rebus, King s O ru third;
L a umah defeated Phaon by a long head for the
Exchange Elate ; aqd Peter wound up the day e
abort witha clever win of the Reiter handicap
from Galatea, Casket, a length away, third.
* * *
The Melbourne Sportsman, which appears
to he the organ of Billy Farnan’s backers, has
lately published correspondence which would leae
the uninitiated to suppose that Far nan wanted to
tight the champion. It may interest the few
readers of the Melbourne sheet to know that at
600 miles away Farnan is better than Foley. At
close quarters we would back the undertaker who
does Farnan's work. Now, to set at rest once and
for ever this childish, silly Melbourne prattle, we
state that Larry Foley is champion of Australia.
Five hundred pounds, or any part of it, is at the
servioe of Farnan and Newton. Fo'ey will fight
bo‘h men, in one day, in e ring, for £lO3, and
lay each an additional £lOO on the fight. It
Farr an, Newton, or any other man wants
«, let him or them say so, and Foley
to accommodate them or him If they
'individually, or by Lackers, are only anxious to
fight through the dol'uipns of the Sj,’GPTSXIAN,
Foley hereby defines such warfare. Two hundred
pounds and Foley, champion, of Australia, are to
be found at The Bulletin office. It may interest
Farnan to know that not so very Jong ago lie
paid forfeit to Foley who, in the presence of a
crowded bar, told him that he never wanted
fight. Farnaa wants gate-money, and it : eems
hard our champion should ba compelled to put
up £lOO to light an outsider when Jack Su livan
can get a chopping block any day for a tenner.
Farnan, stand down, you can't fight Foley.
* * *
The junior intercolonial match was com-
menced on the Sydney Association Ground on
Satuidav las f , and came to a exclusion on Mon-
day. Victoria went to the wickets, and put t -
gether 142 runs. Ward, with 53, making the
highest score throughout the match. Sydt e>
were all disposed of for 91 runs in their Hist
effort. Melbourne ran together 111 ia their secon*'
ianing*, and the last Sydney wicket 1 ailing fur a
total of 158, of which Donnan am Sparkes mac e
96 between them, the match concluded in fivoui
of Victoria with 31 runs to spare.
V » , *, *
At the time of writing, the intercolonial
c icket match'looka very muob like a one-lnninge
victory f y tbo Metbourpians. Turner, who iu
practice showed the bigtfbrip of any of our moD,
kept up bla reputation as a " funker” of the first
water. Ferris also found the turf a bit too good
for him, and his bowling proved very harmless.
With regard to C. Bannerman’s exclusion in the
final picking, a Sydney dally said Charley waa so
i disgusted at being left out in the oold that he
started for Sydney by the next mail train after
the selection. “If you ask us,” Randwidk and
Rosehill may have had nearly as much to do with
Charley’s rapid exodus from the Cabbage Garden
metropolis as his “ disgust.” It was the unani-
mous opinion that he was not good enough.
v »
The news of the death of Nimblefoot,
winner of the Melbourne Cup of 1870, revives tbe
memory of the peculiar circumstances attending
his victory. His owner, who was at the time one
of the most popular men in Ballarat, was landlord
of the Craig’s Hotel, a keen sportsman and bold
backer. He dreamed that he had seen the Cup
run and nimblefoot winning. The jockey, he
noticed, wore a crape band on his sleeve. Me
mentioned the dream to a friend in his hotel, and
gave it as his opinion that JNimDlefoot would win
the Cup, but that prior to the race he would be
dead. A. bookmaker present offered £l,OOO to a
cigar on the uoubie, which was promptly taken.
Saortly before the day on which the Cup was to
be run Craig died. Nimblefoot won the Cup,
piloted by Watson, who wore a crape band on
his sleeve in respect to the memory of his em-
ployer. Half the amount of the bet was promptly
paid to the widow of the deceased.
Little Boy (after watobing the gentlemen
looking through the opera-glasses at the ballet):
“Mb, buy me one of those things to hide my
eyes.”
An American Mayor, haring offended a
powerful element of the population by his radioa 1
stand on the temperance question, received a
ghastly warning, a coffin being left at his door #
He promptly sold the coffin for thirteen dollars,
and turned the money into the treasury of the
local temperance society.
Cash was a little scarce in the Brown
household, and with a view of economising Brown
had obtained the loan ot a friend to carry his
box from the boat to his lodgings. “Hi,” said a
litttle Arab. “What is it,” asked Brown. “Cheaper
to move than pay the rent ain’t it?” And then
Brown skirmished round for a loose paving stone.
A society has reoently been started in
London for the suppression of mendicancy. It
has already succeeded in capturing 200,000 begging
letters written by professional beggars, and 60,000
of the scamps have been run flown by the police.
One of these fellows bad been making quite a
large income by carrying around with him a
tongue in a bottle of alcohol, which a label on the
bottle stated to be his own tongue, lost by a sur-
gical operation. An examination showed it to be
a sheep's tongue.
Some joker, apparently of the asinine
breed, has been giving his Wagga friends “a
Merry Christmas” by inducing them to swallow
pieces of the lily root, a delicacy that may be ob-
tained in most of the creeks down South. The
effect of the dose is unpleasant, a pain in the
“turn” and throat being the first sensation, and a
section from the biography of Jonah's whale
being the next event in the sequence. We would
like to see the practical joker who perpetrated
this bowlingly funny job,—would like to see him
when we have our little pickaxe bandy.
If politicians in N.S.W. desire to test their
popularity, they should attend the local panto*
mimes. The indication of popular estimation is
very clear, and in many oases not complimentary.
Mr J. C. weild might spend a very bad quarter of
an hour at any of tne theatres. No jest levelled at
i him is too brutal to escape hilarious applause, and
the Premier of yesterday, Mr. U-. K. Dibbs, and
Mr. J. P. Abbott, are in a similar position. But
a bit at 8tr Henry Parkes la received in most In-
stances with silent dissent. At the Tneatre Royal
on Boxing night, when every mention even or a
rame was met with loud applause, the allegation
that Sir Henry made promises and did not keep
them, was received in silence, which was eloquent
of the veteran's popularity. Sir Henry, In spite of
everything, is once more the Hoi of the masses.
Writes a correspondent: — “Let land-
jobbers look out for themselves. Money is
beginning to get tighter. The bank rate of
discount was last year in London three per
cent. only. It is now four per ceDt. Already the
Melbourne banks are effering six per oent. for
deposits. Tight money markets mean depression
in value of property. Six years ago, in Victoria,
money was very tight, and, as a consequenoe, it
was almost impossible to sell real estate at any-
thing like its value when money was plentiful.
Money, and nothing but money, is wanted when it
becomes scaroe, the best security is then flouted
unless it is a monetary one—twenty shillings in
silver being then wanted by the banks for the loan
of a sovereign. The four years of land racket
which Melbourne has been witnessing is about; « fe
think, to see tta end for sonde time‘to 'fiojpe. 1 ' TIB
tens'bf thousands of purchasers will have enough
to do, and more than enough for some of them, io
find money to meet the deferred instalment pay-
ments to which they have bound themselves.”
Lord Carington has desired us to intimate
that he does not belong to any more orders. Be
has now more addresses than he can hang, hot
intends, during the week, making arrangements
by which he can hang the presenting parties.
This procedure, his Excellency hopes, will abate
the nuisance. In addition to being Lord C , he is
“ Jack ” about addresses, anyway. How long, oh
Lord, how long—
| Mason, “Buff.,” and OldMlow,
Orders one and orders all,
Qarington (’tis welj tq jjnqg’j
Is out, in fnttfre. wbhn yotj oaip
Seek him, you will find him not,
He is in the cellar biding,
“Jack ” about such awful rot.
He’ll be glad when h meward riding,
Home In England, whicu ne loves,
How he II talk of custom native,
How they’ll laugh, those E g ish toffs,”
Telling how our would-be great live;
Are you democrats, ye mtn ?
Hanker not for Lord’s carressings,
F .irest words he gives you, then
Goes away and swears his bleesingr.


Wolfe’s Schnapps is now the most popu-
|®L.£ r . i °£ a ln the world. Avoid other so-called
oCIJ-NApPQ,
THIS WICKED WORLD.
It is a sign of the times that the mask of
Qeneral Booth is being extensively manufactured
for the London Christmas pantomimes. A short
time back the Harmy was a dangerous topic for
burlesque treatment. Thanks to recent revela-
tions and an outburst of common sense the veil
has been ruthlessly tom from the face of the pro-
phet. The Barnum who runs tea-towels and
salvation soap is no more sacred than the Barnum
who runs an elephant —Mr. Agnew, the great
picture-dealer, was a Radical candidate at last
English elections, and in a speech drew a sketch of
the relative achievements of the Liberal and Tory
party, winding up with: “Look on this picture
and on that.” At this a man in the hall, who had
listened impatiently to the catalogue of good and
evil, cried out, “None of your blooming shop,
talk politics.” —The lawsuit recently entered
against Mrs. Langtry was for shirts sup-
plied to her servants six years ago The
Prinoe of Wales has won 5 0 010 florins in a
gambling casino at B.ida-Pesth. On his last visit
he bagged 100,003 florins Red hair is the colour
of gold—l3-oifrot g01d... They were discussing
each other’s acquaintances, when one of them
said, “I suppose you know Doctor ?” "O
yes, I should think so—rather,” was the reply.
“We’re old pals; we once went to a funeral to-
gether.”. .. As the dogs ran up to the hare, and
picked her up together, the humaue man cried—
“ Poor puss, what a shame to kill her.” “ Shame
be hanged I” replied the Talepttcher, “think of
tke currant jelly.”....The Marquis of Lome has
patented an alleged Improvement in bicycles. We
should like to see the Marquis astride; but not in
kilts.... The Japanese say: “A man takes a drink,
then the drink takes a drink, and next the drink
takes the man.” Evidently the Japanese “have
been there.”....Prayer-books are now made with
Commercial extension. Opening of new markets. Great disembarkation of
European products.
COMMERCE “WONT GEE.”
Incapable of comprehending the beauties of European civilisation, the niggers
persist in opposing the obstacle of their inertia to the prosperity of the whites’
establishment. The brutes think they have no need ot us or of ours.
Ihe vigilant motber-coualry arranges that her new children shall be decentlv
clothed. J
The, next phase.
The March off Colonisation In New Guinea.
bouquet-holders on the outside. In a short time a
Bible will not be complete unless It has a plate-
glass mirror, with little compartments for hair-
pins, fsce-powder, and eau-de-cologne on the
back A professional boxe >n undertaker
Ward C. White, the mos" successful dairyman in
Wisconsin says: “ I always spoak to a cow as I do
toala«ly” It is also passible that he speaks to a
lady the same as he woul Ito a eo w; but the line
should be drawn somewhere... Carlotta Patti,
who was In Aus raliaa few years ago, has again
broken her leg—at Rime. Oarlotta must have
quite a lot of legs...RS VP has finally d'sap-
peared from wedding cards ia polite society. No
lady or gentleman, It is argued, can need to be
told to answer an invita’inn. Tae response
is sent as a matter of oiurse... When the prisoner
heard his sentence he was visibly moved—by two
policemen The Czar of all the Ruisias eats
only one meal a day ; and another curious
fact is that he always helps the dog first....
An English lawyer blasts of a reoent fee of £5OOO
for 14 days’ work. His client doesn’t boast now.
Queen Victoria speaks three languages well—
English, German, an 1 BroaiSoitch....Nightcaps
for infants are coming in again. There is a re-
vived fancy also for day caps; so if baby is to be
in the fashion he mu3t have his bald pate and pink
ears covered by a pretty sheath of embr fldery and
muslin Thomas Hood would have made a
Strange sequence to his lines, “ They went and
told the sextOD, And the sextin loll’d the bell, ’’
had he read of the sexton of Tonga Church, who
suicided the other day—ani made the church bell
toll three times by hanging himself to the bell-rope.
.The notion of health reformers is that mm is
naturally frugivorous, and that his only proper
diet is bread and fruit. Sima of the eitbusiastic
disciples of this system eat all their food raw, in-
cluding grain. The grape-cure, which has become
fO famous in parts ef Europe, as well as the fruit
Oures lu California, are but tbe outgrowth of this
| system. Its adherents claim that man never ate
animal food until the glacial age, when the want
of his natural nutriment drove him to meat....
Breaking in on the nursemaid's siesta. “ Oh I Jane,
come at once; we were playing and dropped baby
into the rain-water tank, and we’ve been fishing
for him for a quarter of an hour with a hookey
umbrella and some sponge cake on it, and he
won’t bite. Ohl do make haste, Jane.”....The
blue ribbon of the "most distinguished order of
the Garter ” was formerly worn round the neck,
but one of Charles ll.’s mistresses having, for a
whim, placed it across the breast of her be-
gartered bantling, the innovation was thought to
be so becoming that it was retain’d....When
Prince Alexander of Bulgaria tried for the hand
of the second daughter of th 9 German Crown
Prince, Bismarck said “No,” and added asaroas- |
tic remark about swans not mating with sparrows.
Which considerably riled Queen Victoria
.. .A Spanish Mayor has just decreed that all
articles of consumption found to be adulterated
or falsified in his town shall be confiscated and
distributed among the charitable institutions and
hospitals Dr. Fothergill says beef-tea has no
food value. Then beef-tea ought to go. No one will
pretend that it has any value as a beverage... Dr.
Adam Clark, who had a strong aversion to pork,
was called upon to say grace at a dinner where the
principal dish was a roast pig. He was reported to
have said : “ O Lord, if thou canst bless under the
Gospel what thou didst curse under the Law,
bless this pig.” —Prom an Amerioan exchange;
“An Augusta, Mline, lady has become locally noted
for possessing a head of hair that is nearly five
feet long.” This is extraordinary. If her head is
broad and thick in proportion to its length she
would be a fortune to a travelling circus. ...
A new maelstrom has been discovered off the
coast of Norway. As it makes more noise than a
Women’s Rights meeting, they are going to call it
the Femalestrom,...The Journal of Health
says “intense thirst is satisfied by wading in
water.” Here is an idea theatrical managers
should immediately act upon. Let them providea
pool of water in their respective houses of amuse-
ment for the benefit of young men whose intense
thirst drives them out between acts... A French
court-room was recently the soene of a very
realistic and sensational eff aot in the oourse of a
murder-trial. The murderer, who was the lover
of his victim’s wife, had used a gun, whioh he
rested aoross the woman s limbs, ia order to get
precise aim and so shoot the man, wh j lay beiide
her. The judge had the blood-stained bed brought
into court, and c impelled the prisoners, the mur-
derer and the wife, to assume the identioal posi-
tions which they occupied at the moment of the
murder as desorlbed by the male prisoner....
Mr. Stead was roughly used in prison until, by
Royal prerogative, he was granted the privileges
of a flrst-olass misdemeanant. They washed hlm»
“cropped” him, clothed him in yellow garb,
ticketed him, and, worst of all, put the regulation-
Bible in his cell. That Jast was a piece of refined
cruelty. Now, a few numbers of the “ Malden
Tribute of Modern Babylon” would have been nice
light reading for the persecuted gentleman A
t uthful m'ssionary (laysCmra Belle), who spent
10 years of his pious life in Japan, and learned
all about the people there, assures me that the
Jap women wear no under-clothes whatever—
neither petticoat nor eve a stockings under the
single outer garment—and the actresses in both
productions of the “ Mikado ” look as though they
obeyed the fashion.... During the oourse of an
1 quiry Into the death of a suicide at Ports-
mouth, E ig., one of the jurymen asked If he
mornt spoke. The coroner replied that he did
not tiink it. would add to the dignity of the court,
and the juror said if it was against the law he
wou d nut do so.
A Southern telegram states that a barber
has out his throat. He was probably trying to
shave himself. We have often feared the reck-
less way barbers handled their razors would
bring them Into some trouble.
Bourke, N.S.W., still keeps up its reputa-
tion. A man recently lost a squatter’s cheque for
£O5, and as he could not get a duplicate, he calmly
emptied the contents of a six-shooter into that
squatter, re-loaded the revolver, and passed him-
self into kingdom-come. He said if he could not
get his money the squatter should not enjoy it,
and, strange to relate, he kept his word.
Professor James Warren is announced as
the inventor of a new process of reducing ores by
the aid of electricity. While examining a piece
of gold-bearing quartz, the professor accidentally
let it fall into one of the dynamos, and to his sur-
prise the gold in the quartz had been melted and
had run to one side of the rock, forming a beauti-
ful button. He immediately instituted a series of
experiments, and succeeded in evolving a process
by which gold, silver, and copper can be instantly
smelted from concentrations by a powerful elec-
tric shock, almost equalling in Intensity a stroke of
lightning. The successful application of this pro-
cess to other ores, as lead and antimony, is also
expected.
Northern papers please note. A Missouri
editor compliments an Illinois brother in the fol -
lowing choice manner:—“ This alleged Democratic
editor is a liar, a traitor, and a base brute; a black-
mailer, who writes unparsable English; a wrecker
of virtue, a moral leper, a mass of corruption, a
sheep-killing dog, a hen-roost robber, a jackal, a
ghoul, a hyena, a bloodsucker, a hell-hound, a
devil Incarnate, a vampire, a lickspittle, a liar, a
tree-toad, a viper, a pestilential vapour, a mias-
matic poison, an upas shade, a sandbagger, a
slugger, a pirate, a petty thief; a cringing, crawl-
ing craven; ablowhard, a blackleg, a deadbeat, a
defaulter, an Ishmaelite, an outcast, a hypocrite,
an arch-fiend of perdition.”
A curious point, interesting to the Guards,
arose at the birth of the present Prince of Wales.
It had been the custom for the oflioer on guard at
St. James’s Palace to be promoted to a majority
when a Royal child was born. The guard was re-
lieved at 45 minutes after 10. At that hour the
new guard marched into the Palace yard, and
three minutes later the child was born. The
question arose which offloer was entitled to the
promotion. The officer of the fresh guard claimed
it because the relief marched in before the birth,
and the keys were delivered over to him; but the
other offioer claimed it because the sentries had
not been ohanged when the child was actually
horn; his men were still on guard, and he disputed
the fact of the delivery of the keys, arguing that
in all probability this had not occurred at the
moment of the birth. Although on enquiry there
was found no precedent for the promotion, it was
nevertheless given. The old guard got it.
From “ Thoughts and Theories,” an in-
teresting pamphlet, by “ Charles Junor," of St.
George, Queensland, we out the following in-
genious passage, which is worth chewing over:—
“ Passion, Affection, Esteem.
THE TRINITARIAN INGREDIENTS OF AN IDEAh
„ „ . . xl _ MARRIAGE.
Passion is the animal craving for the gratifica-
tion ot tne carnal wants. It is a matter of tem-
perament. Affection is the feeling of solicitude
tor the mental and material happiness of another,
suoh as a brother feels for a sister, a traveller for
a companion, an alien for a fellow-alien, a col-
legeman for a fellow-student, or a soldier for his
comrades. It springs from two persons having
shared oommon situations ia life which cause them
to regard themselves in the light of one common
being against the rest of the world, or it may be
the result of their having ideas in common, or
from personal services rendered, or from the bond
existing between two persons of wide disparities
of character, ‘ each, as it were, supplying to the
other the qualities which nature had denied him.’
Esteem. is the mental or instinotive acknowledg-
ment (or acquired by experience) of high capaci-
“* ’ 8 or effort. to excel in another in those points
which we know to b-> worthy of endeavour to
shiae in. This sentiment is quite different from
Respect. Esteem is the child of love—Respect is
that of hatred. Marriage is a subjeot on which
thousands of folios could be written without ren-
dering man any wiser in his ohdioe or woman in
acceptance. By the following diagram I have
hopes of being able to give a slight idea of
tne merits and demerits of divers marriages in
proportion to the different component sentiments
of Affection, and Esteem entertained to-
wards each other by husband and wife. As there
never were, nor ever will be, two precisely similar
marriages, this arbitrary arrangement must
necessarily, as must all others, be imperfect.
Kindly remember tneße five points with referenoe
® J the subjoined table, and when about to choose
a wife, gentlemen, run your eye down the first
? nd ,/ oa (ted!®* by reversing the prooess)
will obtain, if not any very valuable assistance, at
any rate a certain amount of amusement and
matter for speculation. 1, This table is drawn up
for young 1 people, chielly those in the prime of
life. 2. Hy Nothing I refer to Riches, Position,
etc. it. I am speaking only of marriages madl
between educated peoplo. 4. Passion by itself is
the most evanescent of the three ingredients, e
have combined it with esteem over the head of
love and esteem. By itself it is comparatively
valueless, but it is invaluable when combined with
esteem or love, or both. 5. The ideal marriage is
composed of perfect love on both sides. Perfect
love is composed of three attributes: Passion,
Affection, aod Esteem-.
Diagram of the 36 different permutations and
combinations of Passion, Affection, and Es-
teem, the component factors of Love, and
starting from the weakest compound to the
strongest one:—
„ , RECIPROCATED RY
1. Nothing Nothing
2. Passion
3. Affection .. „
4. Esteem „
5. Affection and Esteem „
6. Passion and Affection
7. Passion and Esteem „
8. Passion, Affection, and Esteem ... ~
9 ••• Passion
10 Affection „
IL. Esteem tj
12. Affection and Esteem „
13. Passion and Affection „
14. Passion and Esteem „
15. Passion, Affection, and Esteem ... „
16* Affection Affection
17. Esteem Jt
18. Affection and Esteem
19. Passion and Affection „
20. Passion and Esteem
31. Passion, Affection, and Esteem
23. Esteem . Esteem
23. Affection and Esteem
24. Passion and Affection „
25. Passion and Ksteem
26. Passion, Affection, and Esteem .. ’
27. Affection and Esteem .. Affection and Esteem
38. Passion and Affection ..
29. Passion and Eiteem
30. Passion, Affection, and Esteem,, ”
31. Passion and Affection .. Passion and Affection
32. Passion and Esteem
33. Passion, Affection, and Esteem „
34. Passion and Esteem .. Passion and Esteem
35. Passion, Affection, and Esteem „
36. Passion, Affection, and Esteem.. Passion, Affec
tion, and Esteem «
A QUESTION ANSWERED.
J,T n ?o/f »t r^ lly -°9 riCGded am onpr medical men that
j 8 18 faoßratfle. It is indeed a terrible
n!roh n ’ i®, n u d at ? y knowledge as to its relief and
Tho® l^! < ? uld - be ? 1 Y® n the Widest possible publicity.
The following letter from Hon. B. K. Bruce, ex-
.?! the United States Treasury, should
entitles itto ?^. tentlon the gentleman’s standing
To the Editor of the Herald.- Sir
‘‘Washington, d.C,. Aug. 10, 1885.—Some two
ye h a Q r * f I first underwent medical treatment for
d^ t nl!u )poBed was malaria, but which my phy.
as * incurahTe 8 S M^ ar + dia ™ tes ’ generally regarded
as incurable. My trouble was aggravated, no
t T he h ™ ental . work incident to my office of
2Ky .iuk h d eminent physicians of this city,
(bat whinh co y l< l me » holding me to strict
diet which diminished the quantity of sugar and
whor* B !, 3aa ii y fi isc h ar ged as well, butfl wish
T°wof when tl ! 0 fioetors pronounced me cured
I was really worse in body and mind than at any
«“° Bl °°2 Ihad been under their care. I ™
weak, suffering, spiritless, and almost without
hope, passing an immense quantity of water
nearly five quartz daily, of high speffiflc gravity
and was gradually losing flesh. Much alarmed I
tfm« rt f d h£i T a ii n ? r B i . Safo Uiabetes Cure. At that
L had i°®t f orty pounds of flesh. I began,
wiih?n o .’ to ake the medicine as direoted, and
within a week recognised a slight improvement.
nf b t B hn Q e ed me t? the mosfc exaot following
™,3h«, d l ® cfclocs, i £ nd °ow, at the end of three
months, I am another man. I have gained flesh
lost the pains that racked me, the discharge of
urine has been regulated, the sugar has dis-
appeared, I am improved in strength and spirits
moving about with ease, where formerly I could
nfttifri 1 ! nh OUt f* aIL , My fluids have resumed their
S, a h^rf a i+ h acte , r and appearance. The other day,
stepping into a street car at a crossing, i
1 — within, who eyed me up and down
* a *?« S nr I u ),d ?? d way, and then remarked :
«. w Senator, you are a well man ! ’
» • whJ; PF Gtty well,’ I answered.
did 11 ? he Questioned.
Earner’s Safe Diabetes Cure,’ I said.
.Hie doctor muttGred an incredulous renlv! T
have met fifty friends who have expressed astoni«h-
mentat m y continued i nprovement, knowing as
they did my protracted indisposition, and the g?eat
difficulty of a cure in this disease. *
u-n tt r, r, , “B. K. Bruce,
Ex-U.B, Senator and Ex-Register of U 8
Treasury.’ * '


GitiGura
c?\
fG>.
-Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
O'
Ho
V,2?
Scrofula on Neck.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING- HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians'; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
tier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, _ Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pare by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
; ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A
YANKEE DOODLE
'SSYDN
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
COUquerOR jj
DIX80N & SONS, Sydney,
possess the largest Factory, Manufacture more
Tobacco, and consume more American Leaf,
than nnv factory in the southern hemisphere.
PF"' YANKEE DOODLE, CONQUEROR, Bir Roger, Champion, and Dixson’s Cut Tobaccos.
ZDsurliao-gr ZElarToou-r Hotel,
HARBOUR STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite Railway Oates).
STEPHEN HOPKINS (Late of Wagga Wagga), Proprietor.
ESPECIAL ACCOMMODATION FOR COUNTRY VISITORS.
m
rvs
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL pre-
serves, strengthens, and beautifies the hair : it
contains no lead or mineral ingredients* a/>« can
now be also had in a golden colour, which is
especially suited for fair or golden-haired children
and persons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a most
cooling, healing, and refreshing wash ior the race,
hands and arms, and is perfectly free from any
mineral or metallic admixtures ; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &c.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRB
nroducns immediately a perfect change in red or
grey hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a glossy and
permanent brown or black, which colour neither
washiDg nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20 Batton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents-
E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
-Elliott Bros ,
s
ENT POST FREE FOR Is. STAMPS,
S@cinS Science.
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders, Chronic
Diseases, Impediments to Marriage, &e., How to
choose a partner for life so as to live happy, How
to Regain and Preserve your Health, &c.
Address—R. T. SELBY, M.H., Devonshire-street,
Surry Hills, Sydney.
JUHHOODi RESTORED I
A Clergyman having tried every known reined j
a fortheCUREofNERVOUSEXHAUS-
TION, PREMATURE DECAY, &C., tes at
Uwt discovered a simple SELF—GURE, which, ter
She take of sugaring humanity, he will send FH EE
Prescription which CURED him. , Address,
rHh self-ftdtossedet&mpedjnvelope— '
»t, E. A* CJL.AU.IKE, P.O, Box 329, Sydney,
gasgsiM 1
|HE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER.
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY, EASE,
CONVENIENCE, ECONOMY.
mr THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER saves
labour, stationery, and time, writing- much
faster than expert penmen, and condensing matter
to less than one-half the space occupied by pen
writing. Beautiful copies may be taken in the
usual manner in the letter-press. Merchants,
bankers, solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors,
reporters, and all men of business should use the
type-writer, and' save much valuable time.
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMKAY and CO.,
85 Clarence-street.
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
-> starched linen.
Sol <f oy'all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E.' Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge; Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
J. BUTTERFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
street, Redfern.
XjiELeaa. Q-loss
TO Country Journalists.—Leaders, Telegrams.
and Sydney Letters, supplied by competent
literary man of long experience, cm moderate
terms. “ Beta, 1 ' Bullbtif Office.
Never Travel Without it.
Wanted in Every House.
£
EFFECTUALLY DESTROY. 1
ALL NOXIQL'S INSECT!
FLEAS. FLIES. BEETLES MOSOUITOES,
COCKROACHES. WrS#. 1 * AMD IS
AT THE SAME TUIEOjjUiTE
HARMLESS TO BIRDS DOGS.
FOWLS OR OTHER
ANIMALS
£M'
Cl
asdasd
PwALL CHEMISTS
mb STOREKEEPERS
WHOLESALE
FELTON-GKIMWADE.UC?
Wanted in Every Honee*
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
T3sxe S-ULgrgries!
asdas
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THB
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Easfarn Buckboard Waggons.
tr best manufactured articles only kept in stock.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Marchanft & Importer,
S 2 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
. aid CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
, ui
Importers of
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
RAILWAY AND OTHER CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDERS’
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, &0.
BAB. FLATB, BHBBT,
and! HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PBIFO
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSH WARE
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACKB
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
CTf
vf 4
FORTA B h », FIXED
and SEMIFIXED «N=
GINKS
VERTICAL and HORI-
. ZONTAL BOILERS
f TEAM
. PUMPS
LATHES, PLANING,
SHAPING, SCREW-
-11 L N iV I " N V K “‘ Ul,a
and other
r STEAM
HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRASS
FOUNDRY
; PATEN T ROLLED
| SHAFTING
{ QUICKSILVER, A« s
ff" ptt.ee Lists and Catalogues furnisned oa application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.
Head Warehouse - -
Iron an I Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
- 54 YORK STREET,
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HARBOUR BTREET, DARLING HARBOUR,
Loudou csss ! . .a aaAOBoasBOM »ttuurr


Invigorate the system with Wolfe’s
Schnapps, the purest stimulant in the world.
A fretful mother and cross child indicates
SI health, requiring only American Co.’s Hop
itters to remove.
Wolfb’s Schnapps the greatest stimulant
and tonic in the world. Beware of imitations.
MANY a poor Bull'err.r who submits to the
burgeon’s kuif ■ because of malignant sores and
rdrofulous swellings, might be stved, sound and
whole, by taking Ayers Sarsaparilla. This
will purge out the corruptions whica pollute the
blood, and by which such compuinta are orginated
and led.
The most suitable invigorant, stimulant,
and protective is Wolfe s Schnapps. Obtain the
genuine Wolfe’s.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the most celebrated
tonic and stimulant of this or any age. Be certain
that you obtain Wolfe's.
HEAD IT ALL.
It may Sava your Life.
AMERICAN CO.’S
Hop Bitters
ARI
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buchu, Mandrake, and Dandelion
“ The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
•and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and in addition contain all the best
‘ and most eifective curative properties
• of all other bitters, being the greatest
1 Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
‘ and life and health restoring agent on
‘ earth.”
They »ive New Life and Vigour to the Agtd
and Intlrm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
4 Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
• irregularities of the Blood, Stomach,
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
• Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are invaluable, being
‘ highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
" without intoxicating.”
“No matter what your feelings or
• symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
• wait until you are sick, but if you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
‘ dreds have been saved by so doing, at
‘ a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
‘friends 8 offer, but use and urge them to
‘use the American Co.’s Hop Bitters.”
“Remember, these Hop Bitters are
‘no vile, drugged, drunken nostrum,
‘but the purest and best Medicine
‘ever made, and no person or family
• should be without it.”
0T See that the name Dr. Soule Is blown
In every bottle, none other genuine.
AUSTRALIAN MCTUAL PROVIDENT
SOCIETY,
BEAD OFFICE : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
DIVISION OF PROFITS.
INTENDING Policy-holders are reminded that
all policies effected before the 31st instant,
will share in the distribution of profits to be then
made.
RICHARD TEECE,
Actiog- Secretary.
J, TURNER ROBINSON & CO/t
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
MARKEl 1 OLOTIi HALL,
478 Geerga-straat,
Established H6l.
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
BTOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURER?!,
pg'” Fashionable- and First-class G ARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guaranteed.
QUOD FACIMUS VALUE FACIMUS.
(What we do we do well.)
dasd
TOUK PHOTO.-If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ac-
cept what is but well-meant
couusel, and pay first a visit to
the vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can inspect an
arrayof portraiture, not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co., which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost universal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as potosrraphers.
Prices-C-D-V.,; Cabinets' 30s. per dozen.
C&EEI.MAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, SYDNEY ARCADE.
w. WALKER and SONS,
LONDON and SYDNEY.
Catalogues
POST PBBI.
W. WALKER
and SONS
lure one of the
Largest
Stockholder*
and
Manufacture
of
■tfffc-elau
FURNITURE
In
■NOLAND.
m.
ammS
SYDNEY BRANCH j
Catalogues
POST PRBB.
ALL STOCK
In their
SYDNEY
■OVHI
la
Supplied
DZBBCT
trom their
London
Manufactory
end Lateit
London style*
GnxßANTiir,
81 CUREM6I STREET, VfYNYARD SQUARE
a
a
<—3
cr>
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpasse d
Crispness distinguish Wilson’s Ame-
rican “Extra Toast “BISCUITS. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and incomparible
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 StTRSBX Btrf
OFFORD & CO.’S HA
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
Next to Koyal Hotel, and at 652 George Street.
Jkirve dim. c false . c/” Metssler?
r?
p
C
#•
rf
PF
Pf
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUBIG in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &o.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &o.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &o.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues can be had gratis on applica-
tion.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &c., at lowest prices.
Printing.—lnvoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in paroels,
Jil upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags. Fans, &e.
Musio and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Christmas and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock,
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever invented. The Trypograph
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
whioh is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAHI~BULL^RII P
842 GEORGE STREET.
MADAME YAILLANT, Parisienne Dress-
maker, has the honor to notify that she
has left Messrs. Buckley and Nunn's, and started
a first-class Dressmaking, Corset, and Mantle
making Establishmevt with Madame Blise, of
138 Colllns-street Eas?f, Melbourne.
=
&
! V?
r-SVsi
3F
nh'jZi
SSULIm do a ALB.
FIRST AWAED, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling, healthful, refreshing and thirst-
quenching properties of this worid-renowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
ohoicest possible condition by ordering BULLDOG
ALE, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTELL & CO.,
Sole Agents.
Dr. THOMAS
may be consulted on
Nervous Debility, Skin and Contagious Affections.
Medical Establishment, 203, Elizabeth-street,
near Bathurst-sf reet.
Hours : 9 till 10 daily.
Dr. Thomas is the only medical man advertising
in Australia who has passed the degrees of an Eng-
lish Physician and Surgeon. Examinations passed
—Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians,
London, 18«4; Member of the Royal College of
Surgeons, London, 1859.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S
CELEBRATED
BISCUITS AID CASES, TREACLE AID GOLDEN SHOP,
Self-raising iErated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, Ike.
FOR SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE. «&£
I. & A. have obtained First Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney 1.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-4,
Sydney Agents s W. H. AFt I ELL A GO., 343 and 346 Kent-streei.
The Bell.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
(BY JOSEPH O'BRIEN.)
,s Mr. William Hudson his kindly pre-
sented a bell to tbe new church at the Prospect
Reservoir.”—Daily paper.
In Bight of Sunday-school when urchins lag
With footsteps dull,
And look as if they’d like tc “play the wag,’’—
Give it a pul\
The sound wi'.l cause the brats to pause and tkiak
It just as well
T 6 go to school and so avoid the brink,
The brink of
They’ve found a n< w name for it in our time—
I mean the hole
Where parsons yell and poets purr in rhyme—
The new name’s “ Sheol.”
Saint Peter, too, who stands at heaven's bar
To call the roll,
Will list and keep the golden gate ajar
For some poor soul
(Who, Starved on earth, still hoped fof better things
Beyond the skies)
To waltz iDSide and “ shake ” a pair of wings-
A harp likewise -
And bribe a saint to nail upon his head
A golden crown,
And fill his “ programme ” with Celestial bread
Well-baked, and drown
fils thirst in nectar, sparkling, cool, and clear-
Not like the rum
That turned—before ho went upon the bier—
Bin little '* turn.”
And as titne parses in those realms above
(Those realms sublime),
The neW-made saint will seize a trump and shore
(Just to kill time)
The big end through some fractu-e in the sky
And blow a blast
Will make tbe dead sit up and sbiv’ring cry,
“ Tbi3 thing can’t last.
“That new-fledged cherub’s putted with wind and
pride
Before the Throne.
Great Ccesarl if he got his lip inside
A slide trombone I
“ He’d fire a murderous, blood-curdling blare
Adown tbe track
Of Space, would make old Gabriel shift his chair
K’ght to the b'ck.
“This is the first time siace cur death that we’d
To growl or carp;
If he had sense, that ghost, he would indeed
Stick to bij harp.
“And if the fellow's not content to live
Almost a mute,
Tbe saint that owns the instruments should give—
Give him a flute.
•'lt makes sweet muttc, mallow, soft, and low,
And p’r’ap3 some day— .
Who know 3? God's good—when pr.ietning hi/d
blow
His meutta aw y.”
Ail this the skeletons would siy or think
It—artful knaves—
Then take their skulls atween their teeth and s’ink
Back to their graves.
fcfafrlage or ftln’ral, picnic, Are, or mass,
For birth or knell 1
To plant a friend beneath the verdant grass,
To summon infants to a Bible class,
Gr mark the hours as wearily they paf s,
If It won’t answer wilte me down an ass-
“Bht Since it's you, I’ll try another glass—
Just riDg the lot 11.”


A BOON TO THOUSANDS!
Manhood and Vigour of Youth
Restored in Four Weeks.®
M
Restores Manhood to the most shattered and debilitated «o*
Itkation from whatever cause arising. in FOUR WEEK®,
Failure is impossible if taken according to the printed di-
rections, which are very si®. pie, and rsqnire to restraint er
hindrance troeh business.
tV«s invaluable remedy affords relief, and permanently
sure! all who Suffer wasting and withering of the aervea and
e>s*s»iar tissues, Indigestion, Loss of Appetite, Disturbed
Sleep, Trembling Sensations, Disxiness, Spermatorrhoea, all
Urinary Deposits, which cause incapacity and degeneracy,
total and partial prostration, and every other exhaustive de
range meat of the system ; regenerating all tha important
tkmants of the human frame, and enabling man le folfil hit
nest sacred obligations.
In oases at its., or four quantities in one for jte.; If hy
teaeh, *e M. extra.
I
GO
fer strengthening the system, purifying th« Wood, regulating
the bowels, and removing all vitiated humour*, bilious and
Liver Complaints, Rheumatism, Gout, Scorbutic Affections,
Cwtivenetß. Skin Eruptions, and all diseases of th* aervsni
system. This nevsr-fkiling remedy affords at enee a n»
lease of life to the sickly and aged of botk sexes, imeartiu
a beautiful and clear complexion, a snre sign »f health,
strength, and vigour. Price, #*. |hy poet, si. eutn
AOBKTi tOU SYDNEY I
Messrs. W. BARCLAY & CO.,
, 4$ QOULBURX STREXT,
Qua Doom fxcm Gnoses Stssst Ism,
And may he had of stest Chemists. Q
P&rctit psehtd i»ourely and fro* from oblirvotltx, itxi to
Qytemland, Now Ztaland, or anu ptrt tf *k» Auttrmlkat
Qolsnltt, on roetlpt of Pott Offie* Qrior or itampo.
MOULTON'S
FRUIT
LT\ ER COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON'S
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures an,-, ne
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
ad BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
TIIE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit)
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be
Sold Everywhere, l*rice Is. 3d=
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor
ILLS
m
C
o
NERVINE
TRA.DE MARK-” TONIC NERVINE.”
4 SAJfJS, OiSKTAIN, & SPEEDY CURB ror Ner-
<3. vous and Goaeral Debility, and all complaints
chat spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
toothache. Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
'napSaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
&*j. By its tonic and soothing effects it at once
removes all craving for Alcohol. By its richness
in phosphorous ana other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL'S TONIC NERVINE nour-
ish and gives vigour to the whole system
r rice, 4s. 6d., or 255. a case Sold everywhere.
Proprietors, MARSH ALL BROTHERS, Registered
Chemists, 104 and 106 Market-street, near By a*
l '' 'X, Sydney, and 5 Pitt-street.
N.B.—All imitations Illegal. »*K» NO
»• , a
m
■■ %
ECONPMICALFIiRNITUR&M ECONOMICALFURNITURE
1#
tt«a Fm m
t /// -_)
IHE LARGEST AND ONLY LEGITIMATE
IME-PAYMENT FURNITURE WARE-
HOUSE IN THE COLONY.
365 PITT STREET.
AUl HEBE
ICHLV
’BITHEMEDICA!
JpACULTY,
iEBlu
M
■fO
ot
§
/ERV
NUTRITIOUS
RETAINED AND
DIGESTED WHEN ALL
OTHER KINDS OF FOOD ARE
REJECTED. AT ALL CHEMISTS IN
lOS* 20 ozBOTTLES
o ARNOLD 88RIDCE S T
AYER’S
Hair Vigor
restores, with the gloss and freshness ol
youth, faded or gray hair to a natural, rich
brown color, or deep black, as may be desired.
By its use light or red hair maybe darkened,
thin hair thickened, and baldness often,
though not always, cured.
It checks falling of the hair, and stimu-
lates a weak and sickly growth to vigor. It
prevents and cures scurf and dandruff, and
heals nearly every disease peculiar to the
scalp. As a Baffles’ Hair Dressing, the
Vigor is unequalled ; it contains neither oil
nor dye, renders the hair soft, glossy, and
silken in appearance, and imparts a delicate,
agreeable, and lasting perfume.
Mr. C. P. Bricher writes from Kirby, 0..
July 3, 1882 : “ Last fall my hair commenced
falling out, and in a short time l became
nearly bald. I used part of a bottle of
Ayer’s Hair Vigor, which stopped the fall-
ing of the hair, and started a new growth. I
have now a full head of hair growing vigor-
ously, and am convinced that but for the
use of your preparation I should have been
entirely bald.”
J. W. Bowen, proprietor of the McArthur
(Ohio) Enquirer , says : “Ayer’s Hair Vigor
is a most excellent preparation for the hair.
I speak of it from my own experience. Its
use promotes the grqwtli of new hair, and
makes it glossy and soft. The Vigor is also
a sure cure for dandruff. Not within my
knowledge has the preparation ever failed
to give entire satisfaction.”
Mr. Angus Fairbairn, leader of the
celebrated “ Fairbairn Family ” of Scottish
Vocalists, writes from Boston, Mass., Feb. 6,
1880: “Ever since my hair began to give sil-
very evidence of the change which fleeting
time procureth, I have used Ayer’s Hair
Vigor, and so have been able to maintain
an appearance of youthfulness a matter of
considerable consequence to ministers, ora-
tors, actors, and in fact every one who lives
in the eyes of the public.”
Mrs. O. A. Prescott, writing from 18 Elm
St., Charlestown, Mass., April 14, 1882, says :
“ Two years ago about two-thirds of my hair
came off. It thinned very rapidly, and I was
fast growing bald. On using Ayer’s Hair
Vigor the falling stopped and a new growth
commenced, and in about a month my head
was completely covered with short hair. It
has continued to grow, and is now as good as
before it fell. 1 regularly used but one bottle
of the Vigor, but now use it occasionally as
a dressing.”
We have hundreds of similar testimonials
to the efficacy of Ayer’s llair Vigor. It
needs but a trial to convince the most skepti-
cal of its value.
, PREPARED BY A
DrJ C.Ayer&Co.,Lowell,Mass.
Sold by all Druggists,
ELLIOTT BROS, and 8. HOFFNUNG & CO„
Wholesale Agents.
CONTINUED SUCCESS
OF
RILEY BROTHERS'
ORIGINAL
£5 DEAFER! DALES!
PACKED in CANVAS, and INSURED Rgainst
LOSS.
OT* Carriage paid by mail all over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
The £5 Bale system has been in operation for 12
years, during which time we have despatched over
'orty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
■iction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
'fid carriage arrangements quick ana safe,
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
£S LADY’S BALE
3 Ladles’ Chemises
pairs Drawers
l Night-gowns
t Ladies’ Camisoles
3 Ladles’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
>f good longcloth. and
ioely trimmed. If de-
sired, other articles may
e ordered instead of
■iuy of the above.
CS MOURNING BALE.
35 yds. Bib. French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 doz. Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
GLOVES.
On receipt of 3s. In
stamps, we send, post
free, a pair of 2 or 4-
button kid or silk Gloves
any size or colour, good
quality and fashionable.
For accouohements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Robe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £5.
15s
We send, carriage free,
a Lady’s New Accouche-
ment Belt for fifteen
shillings, or a pair of best
Nursing Stays for ten
shillings.
DREBSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials - Silks, Velvets, &c.—with
prices, and full instruction for self-measurement.
If applied to.
RILEY BROTHERS,
165 Oxford Street, Sydney.
Originators of the celebrated £5 Bales of Dra peri
CLEARANCE SALE. BONA FIDE.
J. LAWLER,
608 George-st., Sydney
(Established 1860).
FRONT PREMISES having BEEN CONDEMNED
the
WHOLE STOCK MUST BE CLEARED
AT A SACRIFICE.
SALE CAN ONLY LAST ONE MONTH.
NOTE-ONE MONTH ONLY.
BEDSTEADS
BEDDrNU
COTS
LAPSES
FURNITUUK
CHAIRS
BLANKETS
QUILTS
MUST
tee
CLEARED.
f
1
STOCK,
£l5 000.
I
MUST BE CLEARED
to admit ef
NEW PREMISES BEING ERECTED,
for which tenders have been called.
SALE CAN ONLY LAST ONE MONTH,
So Purchase Early,
BARGAINS I BARGAINS 1 BARGAINS 1
at
J. Lawler’s,
60S OHOaSS ST 3. EET, SYDNEY.
K™uld use \ PEMELUS
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IS MADE FBOM THE BEST WHEAT
a a Mill replete with the newest and moat approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
13 GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
881 George-street, Sydney.
UMBRELLA
fiTUDY ECONOMY
™ and
Lave your Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
£4l George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Giverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to matoh cos-
tumes Bcwaalrs naatly exe-
s’?*** f
jV NNUAL CHRISTMAS FRST IViL.
PE APES and SHAW
invite special attention to their large assortment of
FANCY ARTICLES, SUITABLE FOR
PKKSENTATiON.
They comprise almost
EVERY CONCEIVABLE ARTICLE OFLUXURY
PEAPES & SHAW’S
ELEGANT
ARTICLES
for
PRESENTATION.
Ladies’ Hand Bags, with
and without fittings
The largert stock of beau-
tiful Fans in the city
Scent Caskets, Boudoir
Nicnacs
Card Cases, in silver,
ivory, pearl, and Kus-
Sian leather
Purses, lijlemo. Tablets,
Pocket Books
Cabinet and Carte de-
Visite Screens
Photo. Cases, Photo.
Frames, Albums
Pocket Mirrors, Tourists'
Cases, Writing
Writing Desks
Fitted Dressing Cases,
and Bags, &o.
PICNIC LUNCHEON BASKETS,
all sizes.
HILdIgARDE,
the new game of cricket for ladies.
PARLOUR, FIELD, and LAWN GAMES,
in great variety.
PEAPES & SHAW'S
GRAND
ASSORTMENT
of
TOYS and GAMES.
f Lawn Tennis Sets, Cricket
ditto, Croquet ditto,
Ringolette, James th&
Janitor, Parlour Skit-
tles, Toys for the little
ones, Solitaires, Ger-
man Tactic?.
-{ Mechanical Toys, Horse",
Dogs, Cows, Sheep, bab-
bits, Monkeys, Rocking
Horses, &0., &c
Work Baskets, Work
Boxes, Combination
Boxes of Games, Com-
[ bination Boxes of Toj b.
DOLLS, DOLLS, DOLLS, LOVELY DOLLS.
BOY DOLLS, GIRL DOLLS, BABY DOLL®,
TALKING DOLLS, CRYING DOLL 9,
LAUGHING DOLLS, SLEEPING DOLLS.
JUST OPENED,
the
NEW CARINGTON SQUARE-SHAPED
PARASOLS.
COME AND SEE THEM.
They are the Fashionable Novelty of the Day I
324, 326, 328 George-rtreet.
sad
NERVOUS DEBILITY,
Lost Vitality, &C.--A simple and positive
means of Self-Cure, by an eminent
French Hospital Physician. Sent Free
Medico, P.O. Box 766. Sydney.
SOMETHIN’Gr NEW!
DR. SCOTT'S ELECTRIC HAIR CURLER
AND
TOOTH BRUSH.
Ladies or Gentlemen who wish to quickly and
fashionably dress, Crimp or curl the hair, beard
or moustache, by a new method, or to possess
sound, white teeth and rosy gums are invited
to read the brief but interesting descrip,
tion of these new inventions
Dr. SCOTT’S
Electric Appliances are now
sold and well known in
every part of the world
and are guaranteed
by the Pall Mall
Electric
Association.
GREAT
ANNOYANCE
has been caused
to all people using
tooth brushes by the
bristles coming out in
the mouth. The Pall
Mall Electric Associ-
ation now take pleasure
in introducing to the Aus-
tralian public a Tooth Brush, which they
guarantee free from this troublesome defect.
The bristles are inserted in the handle by a
patent process, which renders it simply
impossible to come out in use. In ad-
dition to this, the handle of the Brush is
made of a newly invented material perma-
nently charged with an electro-magnetic
current, which acts without any shock
immediately upon the nerves and tissues
of the teeth and gums. The act of
brushing causes this current to flow
into the nerve cells and roots of
the teeth, arid, like water poured
upon a, plant, it invigorates and
vitalizes every part, arresting
decay, building up and re-
storing the natural white-
ness of the enamel and
quickly producing
healthful, rosy-
coloured gums.
The handle is strong,
beautifully polished,
not air. c L ed by acids,
impervious
moisture, and free
from that un-
pleasant musty
odour exu-
ding from
wet bone
handles.
THE
PALL MALL
Electric
ASSOC I A T/O.V
Now offer to the Aus-
tralian public their new
Electric Hair, Beard &
/i Moustache Curler, it
is a handsome article, nickel-
plated, with an ebonized handle, and it
/ should occupy a place in the toilet of
every lady and gentleman in Australia.
By its aid, the hair, beard, or moustache
can be curled in any desired style in from
one to two minutes. For ladies, it produces
the “ Langtry Style,” the “ Patti Bang,” the
“Montague Curl,” and any other styles
desired by ladies wearing their hair in the
fashionable “loose and fluffy” mode.
Those who wear waves or other forms
of artificial hair will find this Electric-
Curler a very useful article. It does
not break off and ruin the hair,
like the ordinary crimping pro-
cess, and in wet or hot weather
it works as quickly as in cold.
For curling the Moustache
or Beard in a moment, it
has no equal, while it is
so simple in its opera-
tion that any one of
either sex can use it
successfully the first
time.
Directions
accompany
each Curler.
wm
London-, England.
Dr. Scott, New York.
Your “ Crimper and Curler'
works charmingly. Its effect
causes universal admiration.
They are most-simple to use. I
consider them worth a guinea apiece
to'those who devote much attention to
the ever-changing arrangement of the
Hair. L. LANGTRY.
Carlton Club, London, W.
Dr. Scott’s " Electric Curler” curls the Moustache
and Beard most perfectly. My wife uses them in
crimping her Hair with pleasing results. Col. D.W.O.
The Royal Dental Society of London testify in the strongest
terms as to the quick benefits following the use of Dr Scott's
Electric Tooth Brush, and many experts in dentistry declare it to
be the greatest invention in dental appliances since the manufactur
of artificial teeth.
Under Royal
and
Distinguished
Patronage.
Health ensured by using
Dr. Scott’s Beautiful Electric
Corsets, Belts, Electric Hair,
Flesh, and Tooth Brushes,
or Insoles.
£*EET
All Goods manufactured
by Dr. Scott bear this label.
BEWARE OP
■WORTHLESS
IMITATIONS*
Price, 2s. 6d. each, of all chemists and storekeepers; or the tno
direct, post free, for 7s.
Remittances oan be made by cheque, P. 0.0., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL ELECTKIC ASSOCIATION,
B 4 Margaret-streef, Sydney.
P.O. BOX, 321.


Wolfb's Schnapps is an agreeable remedy for
debility, biliousness, &c. Be sure you obtain
Wolfe's.
Notioe I—Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Hookings, 143 Pitt-street.
Young and feeble mothers with trail
children will both become strong by the use of
Hop Bitters. Use only genuine
To invigorate the system and rectify irregulari-
ties of the bowels, drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Custom House Hotel, Maryborough, Q.
Gentlemen,— One application of St. J cab’s Oil,
well rubbed In, cured me of a severe attack of
rheumatics In the right shoulder and arm. On a
former occasion an application of this imluable
oil cured me of a similar attack in the hand. I
know of many instances of cures being effected
by this remedy where othe.s have failed. One was
the case of a fireman on board ore of tho A.S.N.
Company's steamers on the Queensland Coast, who
got a severe strain in hio side through lifting a
eavy mass of coal. I bapppened to have a bottle
of st J scab's Oil in my portmanteau (in fact I
"never- travel without it), and got permiesion to
apply it, with the result that the man was able to
resume his work next day. You cm make any
use of this testimonial you please.—Yours truly,
J. J. PORT 818,
Queensland representative of Messrs. W.
Gardiner and Co., Sydney.
Woi.fjb’s Schnapps is a noble exception to
the spirits of tho day. Always ask for Wolfe'S.
EDI TINS A NEWS NONENTITY.
Noocooboolah! Pause, gentle reader, (for
we assume you are gentle), and pronounce it
softly. Nioe name, isn’t it? There's a beautiful
mellow ring about it, strongly suggestive of an
Italian harp, or a kerosene tin, to say nothing of
roast ’possum and blue gum. Just such a name ss
a nervous person would pronounce timidly, and
then run his tongue along the back of hi* teeth to
feel if they were all there. We struck this beauti-
ful town of the Far North one scorching day in the
middle of summer, when the thermometer stood
at 120’in the shade, and the dust lay ten inches
thick on the roads. On alighting at the station,
we hastily shouldered the family shoe-trunk—
which contained our other shirt and a suit of
clothes annexed in a fit of abstraction from a fel-
low-lodger’s room—and made for the nearest hotel.
Behind the bar stood a tall, thick-set man with a
red beard, a hook nose, and an elongated Irish
brogue, discussing a formidable beer. Bow-
ing to the gentleman with a royal grace,
we ventured to inquire if we could take
up our abode within the princely precincts of his
gorgeous hostelry. “I don’t take in no circus
agents,” was the withering response. “ Wo’re not
an agent for the circus,” we replied meekly, “ but
” “Don’t care, performers is all the same;
the last lot of circus jokers as was here done me
clean, and then oollared the other lodgers’ brushes
and eombs.” “You’re mistaken, sir,” we an-
swered; "we’re not in the circus line; we have
come to edit the Noooooboolah Nonentity,” here
we drew ourselves up to our full height—s r t lln.—
and looked as majestic as a Sydney J.P. who has
ust senteneed a “ v&g.” to three months’ without
the option. Had a very superior sample of the
finest dynamite suddenly exploded in the vicinity
of the landlord's whale-like ear, he oould not have
been more surprised. The effect was magical; he
slapped us on the back, begged pardon, and im-
mediately handed the offended party a stimulant
for his own especial use. This being duly appro-
priated, the rest of the day was spent in wildest
revelry. We talked politics with the publican,
played checkers with the cook, and drank brandy
with the barman—who, if we remember rightly,
helped the groom to usher us into the sleeping
apartment alioted to us at a later period. We
have a dim remembrance of hugging the said
groom, and attempting to kiss the chamber-maid,
who appropriated the candle from the next room,
but whether we succeeded in our ambitious and
laudable effort remains a profound mystery—at
least to us l
* * *
Noocooboolab, we found on looking round
next day, was a place of considerable Importance
—in the eyes of the inhabitants. It contained
two chemists’ shops, a court house whose propor-
tions were as limited as the brains of the local
magistrates who preside therein, a lock-up, a
fi mall staff of policemen, and a large number of
goats. The latter ate everything they came across i
and the former drank everything they could find
—except water—so honours were divided. A
vigilance committee also shed its light on the
town ; its principal luminaries being the local
undertaker and the barber, both of whom, if they
could have worked as hard as they talked, would
have realised immense fortunes in an incredibly
short space of time. The most striking feature in
the characters of the above-mentioned gentlemen
was an inordinate love of spirits, and a disposi-
tion to obtain liquor under any circumstances. As
a proof of this latter statement, and to show to
what length they would go, one of the luminaries
tried to borrow half-a-crown from us on the
second day after our arrival. It is needless to say
that the request was sternly refused, by letter,
accompanied with a polite intimation to the
offending person that our exchequer was not in a
fit state to be trifled with. Toe request being re-
peated, we had no alternative but to wipe the
offending party out odco and for ever. This was
done bv assuring the would-be creditor that we
had not entered Noocooboolah to distribute our
wealth, but by our intellectuality and literary
genius to shed a light, a lustre, and an illumination
upon the heterogeneous masses assembled in that
hitherto benighted district. This brilliant out-
burst, delivered with a force peculiar to ourselves,
“ Garden Honey,” and Dan. O’Connor, would have
been i withering in the extreme but for the fact
that the condition of our boot, to say nothing of
our hat, was calculated to spoil any oratorical
effect that might otherwise have been produced.
* • •
We the portals of the Noooooboo-
lah ■ i n tty office the day after our ar-
rival, round that everything was in a state
bordering on oonfusion. The staff (which con-
sisted of two comps, and a boy who bar served
three jears to the “ brick-maklDg ” and two
weeks to the printing) was out. ihe two first
mentioned were discussing the land laws and back-
block ium at the same time in the parlour of a
neighbouring pub., whilst the latter was deeply
engaged in a game of “ three-holes ” with a young
gentleman from an adj )inin* smithy. This was
not a promising begi ,ning, but we determined,
with a good nature for which we are justly noted,
not to find fault, but to try and win the erring
staff back to the paths of duty by kindness.
Accordingly,five minutes afterwards saw us with
two-thirds of the said staff comfortably tucked
under our arms making for the editorial sanctum.
By the aid of gentle persuasion, and bribery of an
uncorrupt nature, the comps, were Induced to
work, and the talented editor had the satisfaction
of seeiDg his masterly leader on "ourselves”
(carefully copied from a defunct contemporary,
and adopted) set up. They broke out at haif-hour
intervals that day, and as a natural consequence,
the paper, which was a weekly, came out
en Bunday morniDg, instead of Friday after-
noon. Of course this was a trifle, the only man
who resented the delay being the local auc-
tioneer, who, havieg become sufficiently sober to
hold a sale, had advertised one for Saturday,
which advertisement appeared 24 lours after the
event had transpired. This so upset the hammtr-
wielder that he rushed into the editorial chamber,
aDd attempted to kick the helasman of the Nonen-
tity, but aimiag a little low, he missed, and only
succeeded in demolishing a Peruvian ottoman—
a nail-can covered with a blanket—which, in his
oalm moments, he offered to pay for. Being
naturally of a forgiving disposition, and taking
into consideration that he was the only man in the
place that would lend money without security, we
refused to accept compensation for our wounded
honour or the dented ottoman. This exhibition
of Christian feeling so overcame the offender that,
with tears in his eyes, and his nand in his pocket,
he proposed the adjournment of the house, or
rather the staff, far 10 minutes. There being no
tremendous opposition, the staff adjourned by a
large majority.
* * *
After this, things ran with comparative
smoothness for a time, and, but for the periodical
visits of the lady who ran a time-paymeut iauc-
dry for our weekly bundle or the balance of the
little account—nothing (to quote the Surry Hills
man who grinds the foreign letter for the HOWL)
occurred to break the monotony of our peaceful
existence until we ventured, In an unlucky
moment, to start a "personal column.” This u
always a dangerous undertaking if the under-
ground passage leading from the office is blocked,
and the editor does not put on armour d la Ned
Kelly. We thought, after perusing the column in
question, that it would take; before the paper
was out an hour we were quite convinced it had
taken. This conclusion was arrived at by simply
observing an infuriated crowd gesticulating
wildly In front of the cilice, with the evident in-
tention of intei viewing the editor at his earliest
convenience—or rather inconvenience. The crowd
came in at last, headed by the grave-digger, to
whom the humourist had playfully alluded as a
third-rate corpse-concealer. Close upon his heels
followed the doctor, who felt a little sore at being
designated a perambulatiag whisky-keg-a name
suggested to the writer’s mind on observing the
muddled medico stow away a quantity of whisky
of a strength and quality much affected by Scotch-
men. At the first knock upon the oaken panel
we vacated the chair, and discreetly sought refuge
underneath the stretcher, thoughtfully supplied
by a generous proprietary for the use of incapa-
citated comps. During the remainder of that day
we were dead to the world, and when night came
we wandered forth with a soul chock-full of gloom,
which was only dispelled on learning, at a later
hour, that the aggrieved grave-digger and the de-
termined doctor had been locked up for thump-
“EQUALITY.”
BILKINS (his friend having been safely initiated): “GLAD YOU’RE IN, OLD FELLOW.
WANTED TO HAVE YOU HERE THIS LONG TIME. NOW, YOU’RE JUST AS
BIG A FOOL AS I AM. SHAKE!”
ing the only churchwarden the place oould boast
of, in mistake for our own unworthy selves.
•- * *
After this the “personal column ” was
dropped, and “Answers to Correspondents” sub-
stituted, a change which was much appreciated by
a certain class of subscribers—viz , those of an
enquiring turn of mind. Some of the questions
asked were what might be termed simple, others
were difficult. Some were calculated to bring an
editor’s gray hairs with “sorrow to the grave,”
and a few wers startling in their originality; but,
taken all through, the change was beneficial, and
the staff became positively hilarious. This ran
smoothly along till, In an unhappy moment, we
happened to give a lady a recipe for bug poison In
mistake for a sleeping powder, when the infuriated
family, including the husband, interviewed us
with rake nandles and a central fire breech-loader
all ready for use. After this little episode, which
was not calculated to gain for us that amount cf
popularity and respect generally eDjoyed by mest
wealthy country editors, the proprietary of the
Nonentity intimated to us that “ as we had failed
journalistically to rise superior to party trammels
and local influences, and as we bad not, as pro-
mised in the prospectus, gained for our oonsti-
MISTAKES WILL OCCUR.
"TELL ME, THOMAS, HOW MANY VOYAGES AROUND THE WOULD DID CAPTAIN COOK
MAKE?”
“THREE.”
“CORRECT. AND ON WHICH OF THESE VOYAGES WAS HE KILLED?”
tuents absolute political equality, free suffrage,
free thought, free religion, free luncheon, and the
largest amount of liberty compatible with social
order and safety, we were at perfect liberty to re
sign the steering gear of the Nonentity and sink
S to oblivion.” This was a crusher, and hopes of
iftlng the world from its centre by the brilliancy
of our literary effusions instantly vanished, the
shoe-trunk was once more hoisted, and, as we
slipped away in the midnight coach, we
solemnly registered a vow that we would go back
to the “ soap boiling,” and by the aid of Provi-
denoe, backed up by good wages, lead a respect-
able life from that time forth.
Writes our London correspondent, under
date 6th November Sir Samuel Wilson’s vene-
ration, respect, and adoration for the Great Dead
have been paraded before the public with consi-
derable freedom since he took Hughenden Manor-
His tenancy of that biitcrio residence has been
made use of to an enormous degree for the pur-
pose of social and political advertisement. Sir
Samuel studies in Beaconefleld’s study, dines in
Beaconefleld's dining-room, draws breath in Bea-
consfleld’s drawing-room, and, doubtless, does
generally in the various apartments of the Manor
many things which the former gr?at tenant—or
proprietor rather—did before him. He affects a
tender and reverent care of the place, the fact
really being that by the terms of the agreement
he is obliged to keßp and leave everything as he
found it. Now, not being a confirmed cynic, and
not being prone to view with a bleary and sar-
donic moral eye all human professions, I might
have been disposed to allow Sir Samuel all credit
for the sentiments he has so often given vent to
regarding the memory of Beaconsfleld. I might
have thought—had I given thought to the matter
at all, which I have not had time to—* this man
has been maligned and misunderstood. He is not
all money-grubber and self-seeker. Hidden away
in his heart, beyond the ken of the ordinary ob-
server, there is a touch of poetry and feeling. All
honour to his modesty for keeping it dark so
longT But a circumstance has just come to
light, the knowledge of which would have
been the means of rudely dls-lllusionising me
The affection which the Knight of Hughenden
cherishes for the shade of the dead statesman doe 3
not appear to extend beyond an observance of the
conditions under which he rents the Manor. The
peacocks are duly nourished and the primroses
cultivated. With regard to the latter, In years to
come, among the singular traditions of the great
family of De Wyllson will be one which will tell
how, in the year of grace 1883, Samuel De Wyllson
—spelt in that ago Wilson-the then head of the
house, on Primrose Day sent to his sovereign a
huge bunch of the yellow blossoms plucked with
his own hands from the beds at Hughendon, and
how, in acknowledgment of the graceful act. Her
Msjesty the Queen penned Sir Samuel a gracious
letter—to be produced whenever the touching
story is told. As, however, Sir Samuel now pro-
duces that letter for the edification of every caller.
I fear that his remote des jendants will receive it
in such an undecipherable condition that they may
be sceptical of its authenticity. Well, the circum-
stance which has disillusionised me is this. Adj*.
oent to the Manor Park there is a quiet churchyard
in which the bones of Beaoonsflold lie at rest,
or as reotfully as thf y could be expected to under
the cruel irony of fate which permits a Salmon
Wilson, with flatne-ooloured whiskers, to ensconce
himself in a chair which has borne the weight of
[ a Burke or a Disraeli. Of the tomb, a oorres-
pondent signing himself ‘Viator Ignotus,’ writes
to a daily paper that he was shocked to flnd.it in
a most dilapidated condition. ‘ The iron railway
surrounding it is rusty, and owing to the kerb
haviDg sunk, is broken and crooked; and the
wh le, so far from giving one the impression of
being the shrine where lie the venerated bones of
a great man, is dirty and neglected, and will soon
look positively ruinous.’ ‘Viator Ignotus’ goes
on to say that the place might be becomingly re-
paired at the cost of a few shillings. Being no
doubt a man of generous instincts, his few shil-
lings might perhaps be understood as three or
four pounds. Let us say that five pounds—the
magic \five-punnote ’—would do it. ‘Hi there I
you short, stout man, over the fence, feeding the
peacock—You that gave £3O 000 for a pair of
copper spurs. Here’s poor old Beac insfleld’s
grave stone tumbling to pieces. Can’t you sling
over a fiver to have it brightened up a bit ? What’s
that you say? It's no business of yours; you’re
no relation of his? Your agreement to keep
things in order says nothing about his tomb ? All
right, then; but, in the name of Beelzebub, the
god (f flies, ceaso making capital out of your
reverent affection for Great Dizzy’s shade, and
your tender care of his domicile I ”
The Otago (N.Z ) Witness writes “ A
esse of supposed sulfide took place at Henley,
where a farmer named Hodge is supposed to have
hanged himself.” it seems almost a pity that so
much supposition should attach to the fate of
Hodge. He is only an atlege’d corpse. If he hanged
himself, it is scarcely a case of supposed suicide,
and if someone else hanged him, the facts of his
last swing may never be made public. Let us
wail:—
Oh, Hodge,
Why dodge
The shaft which Death hurled;
Why leave
(We grieve)
A doubt of dying ?
Say are you dead,
Oh. Bodge buc lie,-
Or stiffly lying ?
Sure Truth has lied
When dead men frolic,
And leave in doubt a doubting world.
Your case is slightly " on the bias,”
Go, Hodge, and dwell with Ananias.
Miss Dash, of Brighton, England, whose
portrait we give below, is a lady of great senti-
ment and unbounded affection. On the 29th
March last, while walking with her mother by the
sad sea waves, she was accosted by a man who
said he had seen her before. She informed him
that it was a case of mistaken identity, but never-
theless consented to go for a drive with him dur-
ing the afternoon. He gave bis name as Captaia
M'Donald, and proposed that it should also be hers.
She consented, and they were married, spent a two
days’ honeymoon, and he then left abruptly to go
to tike command of his ship—all within one week
of their first meeting. He had said that he was a
sailor end 11 ploughed the briny.” but he (alas! for
man’s deceit! ulness) was only third mate of a meat-
stall and only ploughed the briny when he had to
grope for a piece of salt-horse. Yet he might
have been safe, although Miss Dish was his second
living bride, had he not tried to obtain a third
edition of Mrs. Malcolm (for that was his real
nime) and afterwards been detected at a garden
party. The j lry found him guilty of bigamy on a
second trial, and he was sentenced to seven years’
imprisonment. Miss Dash will in future be known
as Miss Blank, for no one can tell exactly who she
is now. And Malcolm will be left to ponder upon
the fact that matrimony, although a divine insti-
tution, may be very much overdone, and to con-
sider whether seven years’ hrrd labour is not
rather too much to pay for the pleasure
of four days’ spooning and two days’ mooning.
Some queer bits of evidence came out during the
trial. Miss Ddsh deposed: “ After we were married
he told mo that he had lalse teeth in front. He
said he lost four teeth through saviDg two ladies’
livts on board a vessel. The prisoner had wanted
to bo married ii a Highland costume.” When
Malcolm, in cross-examining prosecutrix, ob-
served : “Your mother knew you were going with
a comparative stranger?'’ she replied, ‘ I have
been used to baviog my own way for some time.”
ReDlying to the prisoner, Miss Dash’s mother said:
‘‘When you first met us you said you had just
come from Aut-tralia, and had been staying at
Brighton for a month. You had been jilted by a
lady whom you had afterwards seen silting at the
theatre wearing all the diamonds you had given
her (laughter), and you wanted to meet some nice
young Jady whom you could marry and take to
sea in a floating palace.” (Laughter.) Australia,
it is evident, is still the fai-ctf land of gold and
romance. Mr. Malcolm seems to have been, on
the whole, a very nice young maD. When he was
at Brighton he used to get drunk, yet in London
he “ was a staunch teetotaller, and was held up as a
model of temperance in the Meat Market. He
would not go into a public house even to get
coffee.” When a man is so excruciUingly pious
as all that, he is generally on the road to deserving
seven years or so.
