

The
Bulletin
NEW SERIES
t
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET ONLY, 7
0u THE ONLY UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS IN THE SUNNY SOUTH.
2*l a w ° nderful degree, supplying every want and meeting every requirement. We contribute something to enhance the natural
oiegance of the feminine form; we assist m a most economical fashion in mixing the Early Tea and the Late Coffee; and ii ' ” -
article to the household machinery.
in the Mincer represented we add a most useful
ţ
Tha Napoleon
Spirit Stove.
Stove 7d, Kettle 6d
Complete! Is Id.
TEA AND COFFEE
IN
HALF A MINUTE,
miN e.ussts
m
I
it
PERFECTED.
The A. H. and S.— 3 s. 3d.
The Emporium —4s Sid.
PALACE
COKSETS.
The Palace -Ss. lid.
The Haymarhct-os. 6(1.
w.
Sponge’s Enamelled Mincers,
JVn. 1, os. 6d. 2, l»s. 3, 13 s. 6(1.
THE PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET, IS CLOSE TO THE RAILWAY STATION.
Household Fixings of every kind arc best bought at THE PAL/VCE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET.
V=
1
; ■»
Weigh Everything,
including
THB CONSEQUENCES.
FiIRBANK’S
Champion Scales.
Will wyigh from %oz. to L ; lt) Is.
Price, l'Js. Gil.
71b
Y ’S OQUMTER SCALES.
of >v
8,4 s. 9cL; Mbs, 6s ; 281bs, 10s ;
561bs, 13s. 6d.
eight
«* 4lhs iFoivii <o }4oz , as. the Set.
Uh
Palace Granite
TOILET SET,
viz.:
1 each Jug-, Basin. Brush, and Soap Tray,
2 Chambers-7s. fid , complete.
A BEAUTIFUL CHOICE of TOILET
WAUL.
t< Prevention is better
than Care,”
and without implying anything
derogatory of Sydney water, wo
can strongly recommend
CHEAVIN’S
FILTERS.
ranwiuwiiii HHHW
I3sh«»
| £V 1
[, nf' 1 ''r dfl
mV r i 1
ti 11 1
, ,*>ijl!^^i»iimiitr;r»ri|iSiJM
§£SR
|lH|(!}lV l .l!Hi-
:
Our prices are lower than those of any other Sydney House.
00 0 1 2 2
17s. 21s. 80s. 425. 50s.
ju JJia 5 (J nails.
Larger sizes in proportion.
HIV.


ALLAN A. MARSHALL and 00.
IMPORTERS and HAHCPACTURKES of
CfVIMB BEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
■Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
HF* Brass and Bell Pounding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithinjf
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Eleotrio and Pneumatie Bell-11 ttiny
of every description.
BOULTON’S "PLUSH-OUT,” “VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, "VACUUM” WATBR-WABTE
PREVENTEKS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fas.
fowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmer&c.
nm mmsm vorks, sie giaequari® riace p sjrinnj?.
Full particulars and prioe on application.
u
•^freshing;
Genuine
Economical
Makers to the Queen
m
/!
m
f.t
..-i
■/*
24 O’Connell-street, Sydney,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK DEALERS
Complete Photographic Outfits, lu great variety, from £!• Catalogues post free.
THE LATEST WORKS ANO PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
BOLE AGENTS for BAKER’S DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and RAPID in the Market,
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies.
JLii ILi A^
Caterer and Confectioner,
654 GEORGE STREET.
VBT WEDDINGS, BALLS, PICNICS, AND PARTIEB A SPECIALITY.
MUSIC SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, lISJ,;
Also, at London, Mayencb, Paris, and Brussels.
IT LARGEST STO CK IN THE COLONIES
STAR & GARTER FAMILY HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
niIHIS Hotel la centrally situated, being close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre. Tramway, Ac
S Superior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class Wines and Spirits
The most Comfortable and Commodious Private Bar in the oity.
©
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
AND RRfBIUNMBNT ROOMS FOR LADISS AND G
. CH
, and CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCQCK, G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
f
Importers of
STS AM ENGINEB, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
RAILWAY AND OTHER CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDERS’
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, *O.
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PHRFO
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTB. and
BRUSHWARE
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACKB
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON
GERT
ROLLED H GIRDERS
BftftCßl
i
M-Mt
PORTABLE, FIX|S
and SEMI-FIXBD EN-
GINES
VERTICAL and HOB I '
ZONTAL BOILERS
TEAM
PUMPS
and 0tW J
LATHES, PLANING*
SHAPING, SCREW-
ING, and DRILLING
MACHINES
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRAB3
FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLL** 7
BHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, ft*
V Prise List* and Catalogues furnished on application*
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
Hoad Warehouse -
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
54 YORK STREET,
HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR
BITDMB’Y'i
London Offloa - - - - 8i GRACBOHUROH STBiJWPI
Alex. Borfhwick. «. s
WALLPAPER, PAINT, Ac. U,<lM '
2SI O-eorgre-st., 537-d.ne3?"«
OFFORD & CO.’S HAIS
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
fgf* Next to Eoyal Hotel, and at 652 George Street.
The FOLLOWING SOODS
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Corn Paint, la.
Asiatic L'niment, 2s.
That Modern Appetiser—The Australian Relish—ls
A. Soyer’s Baking Powder (free from alum), Cd.
Page’s Custard Powder, 4 in box, Is— mak9S two
quarts fine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linctus, for coughs, Is.
Clayt n’s Nervine, for toothache and cold in the
gums, Is.
Dr Barbarossa's Cinthtr.des and Rms'an Be r's
Grease Oil, for covering bald patcaes and pro-
ducing whiskers, 2j. 6d.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & GO.,
177 , 208 and 200 PIl'T STREET.
ART IFICIALTE ETH
/'AMPLETE - SCT •
ft? »->-01v £
V
m
cJ* v^»
IS
w*-
*re
riRSHAuIL BRO-,
DfNTIS -s 1
S 3? V L!2 ABi|TH:Si
aim
ť
MACHINERY.
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENCINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE STOCKS
. WITH ALL
NEWEST DESIGNS
HIGHEST FINISH
LOWEST COST!
CRANE 3
ANO
hoisting
ENGINE'
lawn
MOWERS'
LOCOMOTIVES,TUGS, LAUNCHES,
ESTIMATED FOR COMPLETE.
#o.
ROBERT COOPER WEBSTER;
SOLtJ'AGENT
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET.
Melbourne!
22, KING STRE £T '
Dr. t h o m
may be consulted on
Nervous Debility, Skin and Contagious An e t,
Medloal Establishment, 203, Elizabeth-str*
near Bathurst-street.
Hours: 9 till 10 daily.
Dr. Thomas is the only medical m*>~
in Australia who has passed the
lish Physician and Surgeon. **
—Licentiate of the Royal r
London, 18*’4; Member o'
Surgeons, London, 165°


THE
BULLETIN
Vol 3 -No. 145 -Naw Series.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1886.
rriot-ea.
Vain Promises and Empty Threats.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 20. 1886.
The Hon. Sam. Griffith, Premier of
Queensland, is so greatly concerned about
the New Hebrides that he has made a bold
attempt to beat the record of his great rival,
Sir Thomas M'llwraith, and has gone one
better than Soudan Dalley. Sir Thomas,
it will be remembered, was the Queensland
Premier who annexed New Guinea first and
consulted the Colonial Office after, and
whose action was, with some hesitation, re-
pudiated by the Imperial authorities. Mr.
Dalley, as some people may reeollect,
“saved England in her hour of need” by
sending troops to help in the Arab-patriot-
shooting. These troops arrived too late in
the season to participate in any of the prin-
cipal battues, but brought back a goat, and
were recruited by an additional donkey.
This interesting business, Mr. Dalley and
his friends are accustomed to refer to
as “ an expression of the loyalty of the
people of Australia.” The people of Austra-
ljf., however, have acquired an inconvenient
v triqk of laughiog whenever the explosion of
, their loyalty is mentioned, and never hear
, of th6 s affair or think of its projector with-
, out being reminded of the Soudan donkey.
NMr. Griffith, probably perceiving that the
Uoyalty of Australians, considered in the
light of a lolly-pop to be offered for the
suction of British title-dealers, is about
played ont,ihan<dles it in a different fashion.
Whereas Mr., Dalley used the article as
salt for the Imperial tail, Mr. Griffith
„ employs it as powder for his little gun.
- “ loyal sentiments qf Australians would
, be ftfiepted,” mutters M,r. Griffith in an
, cablegram to bis Agent-General, “by
any ap.tipn at a sacrifice of, or regardless of
, their, intergsts in the New
That isto.say that Australian loyalty is
i marketgjile cppimodity. Mr. Dalley can l
offer it, for honors and medals, and Mr.
.Griffith c.aq threaten ,its withdrawal un-
less ample considerations be forthcoming.
* * •
Gf the two, Mr. Griffith: is probably
nearer the truth. v Loyglty is a sentiment
which is on tap gratis so long as, it. costs
nothing, especially when bestowal of it
appearg calculated 1o benefit the donor.
But when interest is opposed to sentiment,
the result is generally similar to the in-
fluence which the appearance of poverty is
proverbially said to have upon love. When
the one enters the door, the other flies out at
the window. We believe with Mr. Griffith
that should the British authorities neglect
or injure the interests of Australia, the
colonists of these regions would be found to
have just as much spirit as under simi-
lar circumstances the colonists of North
America bad. In other words, that Mr.
Griffith is correct in threatening the
mother country with our disloyalty in the
event of our interests being sacrificed. But
inhere Mr. Griffith is absurdly wrong is in
Pretending that Australians regard any
action which the Imperial authorities
may take, or omit to take, with respect
M' the New Hebrides, as in any way
affecting their interests. The only section
°f the Australian public who care a snip of
the lingers are the Presbyterian parsons
ami their few sympathisers. The rev
gentlemen have a mission station or so on
the New Hebrides, and have abo preten-
sions to having swindled the natives into a
sale of territory for Bibles and iron hoops,
or similar honest value and full consider-
ation.
gas
The bulk of the Australian people are
•totally indifferent to New Hebrides.
And in such indifference they show their
sense. The future of Australia depends
upon the enterprise and energy expended
by Australians upon and within the mag-
nificent continent which they inhabit. Who-
ever, a hundred years hence, owns Aus-
tralia, must dominate the whole Pacific
Archipelago, no matter by whom the out-
lying groups be colonised. The thing is a
complete farce, and when Sam Griffith
cables to his Agent-General to inform the
Imperial authorities that a New Hebridean
matter can affect Australians to disloyalty,
he cables home a ridiculous lie.
a a ®
The fact appears to be that the colonists
of Australia have been equally misrepre-
sented by Mr. Dalley aftid by Mr. Griffith
to suit the respective designs of these two
THE EIGHT HON. TI C. E. CHILDERS.
persons As a people, we neither so
imbued with an effusive and uncalculating
loyalty to Great Britain as to w'sh to fling a
portion of our population to whatever part of
the Globe the British armies may be
directed, and to plunge recklessly into every
old-world contention which does not con-
cern these regions, nor are we so senseless,
so fractious, and so exacting, as to be ready
to abandon our affection for the mother
country unless her statesmen court quarrels
with any one of the Great Powers which
may feel a disposition to appropriate a
group of savage islands in mid-Paciflc,
nearer to their own colonies than to any
British possessions.
• a ■
The Australian people are, we believe,
cordially well affected to the mother country,
keenly appreciative of the consideration and
good-will repeatedly expressed and exhi-
bited towards them ; fully alive to the ad-
vantages of the Imperial connection under
existing conditions, and strong in the hope
that present relations may be long main-
tained, and, if possible, more closely
cemented. But they are, as a people, neither
wholly composed of sentimental enthusiasts,
nor of unreasoning fools. Among the most
reflective, ideas and convictions are
current, and are gaining ground, that
in the future the be3t method of pre-
serving unstrained and affectionate relations
may be analogous to the process which is
constantly going on in families. That is to
say, when th 9 young members of a family
arrive at maturity, and grow up to man’s
estate, they should set up for themselves,
and undertake the entire and independent
management of their own affairs. Such a
course]does not operate to alienate affection.
It most distinctly tends to avert clashings
and to preserve kindly feelings which would
otherwise be certainly endangered. This is
a subject which has been infinitely beclouded
and muddled by the self-interested flunkey-
ism of title-hunting humbugs on the one
hand, and the equally self-seeking provoca-
tions of popularity-hunters on the other.
Dalley laid at the feet of the throne a
loyalty which was of a spurious kind on the
one hand—tne mere heat of an enthusiasm
confined to the thoughtless and unrestrained
merely because it involved no real sacrifices;
Griffith now threatens with a “disloyalty”
just as unreal. Australians are not fools,
either way. They are neither loyal beyond
reason, nor will they be disloyal without
cause.
Lau[?] Ho!
Twenty years ago, Ben- Wade, one of the
senators for Ohio, stated, in the American
Senate, that, by the close of the century,
every acre of fair agricultural land in the
Union would be worth 50 dollars or £lO. It
is now considered that the estimate was
much under the mark. The Republic covers
an area of 3,150,000 square miles or over two
billions of acres. Let us take another low
estimate, and suppose that of this vast
domain but one fourth was fit for cultiva-
tion. Thus, in 14 years from the present,
the arable land of the United States, most
of which by that time will have passed into
private hands, will represent the enormous
sum of £5,000,000,000. At a dollar or four shil-
liDgs an acre per annum a public income of
£100,000,000 a year would flow from this
source alone; or, at a rental of 4 per cent, on
the gross value, £200,000,000 per annum.
This, be it remembered, is exclusive of the
amounts derivable from the leasing of town
and suburban lands. With criminal reck-
lessness the Americans have gone on alien-
ating their birthright-frittering away their
noble heritage—until, as Georoe remarks
“ Practically, there will soon cease to be auy.
.... It will be a very short time before all
that men can turn to use will have an owner.
.... Our advanea has reached the Pacific.
Further west we cannot go, and increasing popu-
lation can but expand north and south. North, it
is already filling up the valley of the Red TUver,
pressing into that of the Saskatchewan and pre-
empting Washington territory; south, it is cover-
ing Western Texas and taking up the arable
valleys of New Mexico and Arizona. . . . Yet
it becomes no easier for the masses of our people
to make a living. On the contrary, it becomes
harder. The gulf between the employed and the
employer is growing wider. As liveried carriages
appear, so do barefooted children.
• a ■
Let us turn to New South Wales. Here
the same blind policy—that of parting with
the fee-simple of the soil—that is now
causing such apprehension among thought-
ful Americans, is in full .swing. Owing to
the sparseness of the population in propor-
tion to the extent of territory, the gruesome
results have not yet begun to attract much
notice. But that they will become more
apparent as the years go by, and land alien-
ation marches hand-in-hand with increasing
population, is as certain as that the earth
spins round the sun. Present land-hunger
and future want stand to each other in the
relation of substance and shadow. The law
governing them is as inexorable as that of
long division. New South Wales has an area
of 196,000,000 acres. Of this, 7,000,000 were
alienated prior to 1861. Prom the latter
year up to the end of 1884, 17,000,000 acres
passed through into private hands, making
a total of 24.000,000, or about one-eighth of
the whole. There is little doubt that in the
area so disposed of will be found most of
the choice lots of the colony. Even now, the
selector has to go far afield before meeting
with unclaimed ground possessing perma-
nent water and promising soil. Still, his
difficulties are slight -in comparison with
those his children will meet. As fresh
mouths come to be reckoned by the million
instead of by the thousand, and as the value
of land advances with equal steps, the
foolishness of having enriched the few out
of the patrimony of the many, will cause
colonists of to-morrow to deplore the short-
sightedness of those of to-day. With the
example before them of the evils neces-
sarily resulting from allowing private
property in laud, it is humiliating to
think that the people look on apathetically
and give no sign. Suppose that, of the
total area of the colony, one-fourth was
suitable for agriculture—we make ad-
visedly a low estimate. At an annual ren-
tal of 4s. per acre £10,000,000 sterling a year
—when the whole was leased—would flow
into the Treasury, This income would grow


with the growth of population and conse-
quent advanco in land value. And if it be
said that many years would have to elapse
before lessees oould be found for the cul-
tivable soil, it should be remembered that
during these years the value of the ground
was not at a stand-still but growing apace.
Daily wo see private owners return from
long sojourns abroad to find the value of
their property doubled or quadrupled, not
through any efforts of theirs, but through
causes over’which they have no oontrol.
Similarly, unoccupied public lands would
increase in worth, thus enabling the State
—or, in other words, the people—to secure
the increment which, but for them, would
never have accrued. The public opinion
which recognises as lawful and just the claim
of the individual to appropriate the wealth
for which others toiled, and which but for
them would have no existence, is opposed
to reason and cannot last.
* • *
But it may last long enough to cause
grave* misohief, as in the case of America—
mist V 'tef which even in that country has not
yet 1 cached its acutest stage. For when no
more unclaimed laud is to be found be-
tween Rhode Island and San Francisco, and
no unoccupied continent to be discovered
farther west, questions which dull politi-
cians now affect to comider impractical and
U lopian will be forced to the front and de-
ni a id solution in tones which will not
look delay. That time is almost at hand.
T r re is no doubt that but for the posses-
k.i ) v an English-speaking people of the
vast terri-ory extending from the Gulf of
Mexico to the Arclic.circle’the English land
question would long since have been settled
in a manner not pleasant to dwell upon—a
manner more closely resembling the French
method of 1709 than the British of 1832.
The prairies relieved the pressure. It is as
well to remember, however, that new con-
tinents are not picked up every day, that
the supply appears to have run out, and that
some solution besides expatriation will
shortly be in demand. To return to New
South Wales. During over 70 years—from
the arrival of the first convict ships to 1861—
but 7,000,000 acres were alienated. During
the next 20 years twice that amount was
lost to the community. To say, therti'ore,
that as only one-eighth of the colony passed
into private hands during a century, there
is no need to hurry, is to mislead. As is
alleged of population, alienation increases
in geometrical progression. If suffered to
proceed unchecked, it is doubtful whether—
leaving out reserves—an acre of land
capable of profitable use would be owned by
the State by the time the country possessed
4,000,000 of people, some 40 years hence. This,
which many look upon with composure, we
regard with grave misgiving. When it is
borne in mind that in the western district of
Victoria are hundreds of square miles of
country for w hich the lucky owners obtain
a rental of from £5 to £lO an acre per
annum, and that in New Boutli Wales is to
be found land equally prolific, the magni-
tude of our folly will suggest itself. In
estimating the revenue derivable from
country lands, we have purposely kept
the figures low. It is when specula-
ting on the rentals paid in other
countries that the modest figures to
which we have limited ourselves assume
dimensions fairly bewildering. Before,
however, the views we have enunciated can
be reduced to practice, the idea that land
will not be judiciously used unless private
property in it is allowed, must be destroyed.
How such an opinion arose in face of so
many proofs of its unsoundness is curious.
Most of the land in the United Kingdom is
cultivated by tenants. Upon leased ground
most of the London buildings, and many of
the American ones, are built. In the centre
of San Francisco is a fine block of buildings,
the ground rent of which goes to a School
Fund, instead of into a landlord’s pockets.
In England large tracts of land, which, if
public property, would be under crop, are
idle through the owner’s caprice. In
America large tracts lie unused till the
pressure of population forces buyers to
give the fancy prices demanded by the
owners. What is it to the tenant whether
his rent is placed to the landlord’s credit or
finds its way into the coffers of the state ?
No' more grotesque error ever arose than
that of supposing that 'and would not be
made the most of unltss private property
in it was allowed.
* * *
SO far, wo have dealt with the country
alone. If town lands are considered the
impolicy of parting with the fee-simple be-
comes more obvious still. Take Sydney, for
instauce. Does amyone suppose that less
costly buildings would be found in its
streets or suburbs if instead of freeholds a
fixed ground rent for a certain number of
years had been tne rule? To suppose so
would be to consider the people altogether
different from those of London or New
York, where the most expensive houses
are erected on rented ground. In
fact, universal experience is agaiDst
the assumption that land, whether in
town or country, will only be turned to the
best account when exclusively possessed.
Is there a remedy, then, for. the state of
things which, in England, has resulted in v a
state of chronic discontent, sometimes ap-
proaching revolution—in America has
aggravated poverty and fomented troubles,
the end of which no man can foresee —and
in the colonies has led many to look on
private property in land as the social evil
which dwarfs all others by comparisons?
We know of but one. The stoppage of alien-
ation and the resumption of the land.
• • •
In England suoh a step is beset with diffi-
culties ; in the United States the difficulties,
although great, are much less than in Britain
—with us, the way is open and easy. This is
because of the comparatively small amount
of land alienated. Take Sydney for ex-
ample. So rapid has been its recent growth,
and so assured is its future, that had all the
freeholders within a radius of 10 miles from
the General Post-office been bought out 12
or 15 years ago, the advance in values sinoe
that time would not only have paid them a
fair interest on the price, but would have
cleared off the principal and left the ground
unencumbered public property once more.
As the people spread and new houses were
built, the annual excess of rents over in“
terest due on the purchase money would
have formed a sinking fund which, ju-
diciously invested from time to time, would
to-day meet all liabilities. Or, take the
Sydney of the present. It is probable that
within the radius we have mentioned a
quarter of a million of people would be
found. In 20 or 25 years that number will
be doubled. Government bonds bearing in-
terest at 4 per cent., and redeemable
long before the half-million of people
was reached could be safely issued to land-
owners. All this, of course, is on the as-
sumption that the majority of the com-
munity have been brought to see what
Mill, with characteristic acuteness, saw
years ago—that, by all the laws of reason
and justice, the unearned increment of land
belongs to the State. So long as people
think that a person has a perfect right to
let his land lie idle until public necessity
multiplies the price twenty-fold, then step
in and demand the augmented value caused
by the wants of others, so long will persons
residing in the eastern suburbs have an op-
portunity of contemplating barren sand-
hills, whose absent owner need take no heed
for the morrow, conscious that thousands
of men he never saw are mindful of his
business while minding their own. For the
sake of illustration, let us say that the price
of the area in question is £10,000,000. The
yearly interest to be paid on this would be
£400,000. Where should the sum be obtained ?
From the rents of the resumed lands.
How, then, pay off the principal when it
became due in 10 or 15 years ? By the fund
created by the constant increase of rents.
But, it may be objected, suppose rents do
not increase? As well might it be said,
“suppose population does not increase?”
Place a million of people in a fruitful terri-
tory capable of supporting sixty millions in
comfort, and they must increase unless
means are adopted to thwart Nature. Even
if, in consequence of the defeat of the mother
country, the colony passed under a foreign
flag, as Canada did over a century ago, the
growth of population would not be stayed.
And advance in rents must accompany such
growth. In England rural lands have a
downward tendency caused by the tenants
being unable to pay the enormous rents
demanded, and at the same time compete
with the vast grain-growing plains of
Western America. But it is certain that in
the New South Wales of four millions land
will be much dearer and rents much higher
than they are now. Until possession of the
soil is resumed and the right to private pro-
perty in it denied, the spectacle of indolent
men living on the industry of others—reap-
ing what they did not sow, and spending
what they did not earn—will continue.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Capital Punishment ia Switzerland.
A statemekt has gone the round of the papers
and has been repeated with marked persistency, to
the effect that capital punishment has been re-
stored in Switzerland—implying, of course, that a
trial of abolition had proved unsatisfactory. To
understand what has really taken place it must be
known that in 1874 a change in the Constitution
extended the Central Authority and destroyed
Cantonal independence. The Central Authority
abolished capital punishment throughout Switzer-
land. Chafing under the new Constitution, a de-
mand was made that each Canton should have the
right to enact its own laws relating to the punish-
ment of capital crimes. The question was put to
the vote whether the article of the Constitution
forbidding capital punishment should be rescinded
or not. To this question 195,000 voters answered
“Yes,” and 180,000 “No,” thus rescinding the
article by a majority of 15,000 in 375.000. “ It will
be observed,” said a Swiss correspondent of the
London Times at the time, “ how nearly equally
opinion is divided, and whatever weight ths
slender majority may have, it loses much
of its importance when certain circumstances
are taken into account which, with your per-
mission, I will proce ed briefly to mention. To begin
with, the largest cantons in Switzerland, Zurich
and Berne, have said ‘ No,’ and this has also been
the decision in most cases by large majorities of
cantons Bale, Neuchatel, Geneva, and Tessin, and
the cities of Frieburgh, Chur, Liestal, Olten
Aarau, St, Gall, Thun, and Luae?n. The altera-
tion of the QoiwfltsuUQn rdwived, most support' in
the country districts of the Catholic cantons and
in the Canton de Vaud. It is certain, however
that the Pays de Vaud has no intention to rein-
troduce the punishment of death. Why, them
has a large majority voted ‘Yes?’ To under-
stand this it must be remembered that a large
minority voted against the acceptance of the Con-
stitution of 1874 from a jealousy of the Extension
of Central Authority. . . . There Is little
doubt the vote given on Sunday was intended as
a protest in favour of cantonal independence. . . •
The position of affairs there is simply this: Each
canton has now the right to re-establish the death
penalty, but for the reason I have suggested it is
certain very few will do so.” Now that the truth
of the matter is published we sincerely trust that
w e shall read no more—in the colonial Press at
least-aboutthe ‘‘restoration of capital punish-
ment in Switzerland.”
«♦—
A New Evangelist.
Whether Christianity will be strengthened by the
advocacy of .Mr. David Buchanan, the Sydney
barrister, remains to be seen. So far, we are not
aware of his having brought forward any proofs
that were unknown to Hume, Gibbon, Voltaire,
Paine, Mill, or Buckle. Why those men, and
hosts of others equally able, refused to accept, as
true, the evidence that seems so convincing to
Mr. Buchanan can scarcely be answered by the
easy assumption that they were “ Bhallow blas-
phemers.” It is probable that the “essays on
Miracles,” and on “Liberty,” the “Decline and
Pall,” the voluminous works of M. Arouet, the
“Bights of Man,” and the “History of Civilisa-
tion,” will be read when this new apologist and
his works “ shall have faded into the infinite azure
of the past.” David sent his “ proofs ” to our
late Viceroy accompanied with an essay on
drunkenuess, and the answers of Lord Loetus are
literary curiosities. Inter alia his lordship says:—
“It is, I think, to be regretted that such free scope
is given to free thought. ... I believe, and
am convinced, that your able defence of Christi-
anity so lucidly and so powerfully argued, has
worked great good, and that many have been
thereby led to reflect and to halt on their down-
ward path of unbelief. ... It has ever been a
subject of regret to me since I arrived in the
colony, that in the education of the rising gener-
ation, there is no religious education enforced.”
His lordship might have remembered that in
Europe, for 1400 years, religion was not alone
taught, but enforced, in a manner to which he
probably would be the last to revert—that this
teaching was largely instrumental in giving
us 14 centuries of rapine and massacre, ending
with the French Bevolution. It was in the
States of the Church and of Southern Italy that
this method of instruction was brought to its
highest perfection, with the result that the pea-
sant who trembled before a wax Madonna would,
for a few coppers, rise from his knees to cut a
throat. And it had full swing in Mexico and South
America also with somewhat similar results. To
come nearer home, our own “Hodge” was for
generations taught that a straw bed, with garbage
for food, would end in sempiternal bliss. His
teachers somewhat inconsistently hoped for the
same future happiness while enjoying dainty fare
and beds of down here below. The consequence
was that if .the British rustic appears to no better
advantage in Heaven than on earth he will
llnd few to associate with him there. No
greater mistake was ever made than that of sup-
posing that religion—as ordinarily understood-
is at the root of morality. What becomes of such
a moral superstructure when the religious foun-
dation gives way? The morality that is not
robust enough to walk alone without conventional
religion for a crutch is a sickly thing at
Why, if Mr. Buchanan and Lord Loetus believed
what they would fain have others taught, they
would not be well-dressed and well-fed while so
many thousands of their countrymen were living
on offal and shivering in rags. So it is “ much to
be regretted that such free scope is given to free-
thought.” No doubt it is-from his lordship's
standpoint. For, when men come to be guided bi-
reason and by untrammelled thought, he and
his class will cease to usurp the places intended
by Nature for more gifted men,
♦
The London Riots.
The British Constitution is once more in danger.
Of all the impostures which have cursed the folly
of too credulous mankind few have been more
ridiculous than this same Constitution. Its pane-
gyrists invariably describe it as the highest em-
bodiment of political wisdom. They vaunt its
strength, and boast above ali its elasticity. Yet
these very persons are the first to show by their
actions that their laudation is insincere. On the
slightest appearance of any stress, they shriek
with apprehension for the Constitution, suspend
its application, and rely for effective use upon any
expedient that is handy, outside the Constitution.
The Constitution-, in fact, is treated like the
Sword of State. It looks splendid when carried
before the Sovereign on ceremonial occa-
sions, but when battles have to be fought
the rough - ground cutlass is the article
brought into requisition. So long as every section
of the British people are content to defer to
existing conditions, even if these impose upon
millions lives of hopeless wretchedness—the
Constitution is held aloft and hymned. But the
moment there are indications of a strong deter-
mination to expedite change more rapidly than
suits the convenience of the prosperous class, the
Constitution is either openly suspended or cun-
ningly violated. The Englishman’s liberties of
free speech, of free Press, of public meeting, are
rights which he is perpetually told to congratu-
late himself upon. They are, he is informed, in-
violable—and so they are so long as he turns them
to no seiious account. The Hyndmans and
Morris's, and Champions— the Bepublican ad-
vocates, and the Socialistic propagandists, are not
interfered with so long as they appear insignifi-
cant and impotent, and the fact is continually
referred to as illustrative of the genuine
and comprehensive liberty secured by the
British Constitution. But the moment there
is an appearance of real effects being pro-
duced by their teachings, they are harassed and
persecuted with a vigor and unscrupulousness
proportioned to tho extent of their influence.
The prosecution of the Socialist leaders in corm eo
tion -with the recent riot in London is not, it m ug |
be borne in mind, the commencement of the trou
ble. These propagandists were, during the recent
brief and accidental tenure of power by the Tories
hounded down by the police ; their open-air meet*
ings were dispersed on frivolous and transparently
specious pretexts, and municipal regulations
which were latent with regard to all other meet,
ings were enforced with vindictive and vexations
severity against them. Should they gain further
headway—and we know of no process better cal.
culatod to stimulate attentive consideration of
their principles than the prosecutions just ordered
-there would doubtless be repeated in England the
device ordinarily employed under like conditions
both there and in Ireland. The Habeas Corpus Act
would be suspended, and the British Constitution
of which that Act is an integral part, shelved until
circumstances would again permit it to be brought
out again to dazzle the eyes of fools with its
spurious lustre. It is perfectly obvious that not
one of the Socialist leaders was a participant in
the riots. Had they been, the tidings would have
been Hashed with triumphant alacrity to every
corner of the globe. They had delivered addresses.
Their genuine disciples and followers had, in the
London parks, been supplemented by the idle
crowd, which, owing to the universal distress
afflicting the operative class, is but too numerous
and by the ordinary rag-tag of a; great city!
and a demonstration was converted, first
into a riot, and then into a loot. Hynd-
man and his colleagues are to be prosecuted
for inciting the mob. A conviction should be
easy. Apart from all questions of mob outrage
there would be little difficulty in procuring coni
victions against St. Simon, Lassalle, Karl
Marx, and other leaders of Social Reform on their
mere published opinions. Their philosophy con-
demns legalised robbery of the worker. And the
robbers happen, also, to be the law-makers.
Naturally they have laws to protect themselves!
The lot of Hyndman and his associates is merely
that which all previous reformers have had to
face. The principles of Social Reform are dealt
with in the same spirit as were the principles of
the Anti-Corn Law League. Mr. John Morley,
now Chief Secretary for Ireland in Mr. Glad-
stone’s new Administration, drew the parallel in
ad vance,.in his “Life of Cobden,” thus:—
“ In England it is certain that the amazing vigour
and resolution of the League was regarded with
intense disfavour by great and important classes.
The League was thoroughly out of fashion. It
was regarded as violent, extreme, and not respect-
able. A year before, it had usually been described
as a selfish and contemptible faction. By the end
of 184:3 things had become more serious. The
notorious pamphleteer of the Quarterly Re-
view now denounced the League as the foulest and
most dangerous combination of recent times. The
Times spoke of Cobden, Bright, and their allies,
as ‘ capering mercenaries who go frisking about
the country;’ as authors of incendiary clap-trap;
as peripatetic orators pufiiing themselves into
easy popularity by Second-Hand arguments. They
were constantly accused of retarding their own
cause, and frightening away respectable people by
their violence. Violence, as usual, denoted nothing
more than that they knew their own minds, and
pressed their convictions as if they were in earnest.
In the early part of the autumn there had been a
furious turn-out of the operatives in the mills,
and later on in the season ricks had been burnt in
the midland and southern counties. The League,
in spite of the fact that its leaders were nearly all
mill-owners, or connected with manufactures, was
accused of promoting these outrages. There were
loud threats of criminal proceedings against the
obnoxious confederacy. It was rumoured on the
Manchester Exchange that the Government had
resolved to put down the League as an association
constituted against the law of the land. If neces-
sary, anew law would be made to enable them to
suppress a body so seditious. This heat in the
minds of the ruling class made them anxious at
almost any cost to destroy Cobden, who was now
openly recognised as the foremost personage ih
the detested organisation.”
4.
The Last Fizz,
The last Fizz of the Soudan fireworks entertain-
ment spluttered on Saturday last, when some 500
men, of whom the intelligent wore a shamefaced
air, re-assembled to be adorned with medals which
they, in common Iwith everyone present,
were conscious they had not won. This
episode was a most fitting conclusion to
an affair which commenced by a betrayal
of the Constitution of N.S.W. into participa-
tion in a cold-blooded expedition of slaughter
which has been condemned by the best and truest
Britons. The English emissary t o this colony, of
course, did no more than his duty in endeavour-
ing to invest with ecldt an affair, the ten
dency of which is to entaDgle our peace-
ful and industrial community in every
squabble at the ends of the earth, and to convert
our colony into a recruiting ground for British
Jingoes. The ruling caste in the Old Country are
always hard-up for soldiers when a war is under"
taken to suit their designs. Home-staying
Englishmen show every year a more profound
disinclination to enlist, and the reoruiting sergeant
finds his supply limited to the floating margins of
rattle-brains and chumps who fringe every
population. The most reliable and permanent
resource is still, however, the unfortunate c:aSJ
who find themselves jammed between the alterna-
tives of starvation or enlistment. It is conse-
quently of some importance to the Imperial
authorities to cajole and pet the colonists into
a proper spirit of self-sacrifice in this re-
spect. And it is of just equal importance to
colonists not to permit themselves to be hum-
bugged into any such folly. The man who
succeeds in making fools of them to that extent
Is always sure of the offer of a knighthood, but
the men who are befooled are sure of nothing—
not even of a fight to cool their blood by the
murder of poor naked patriots; not even of bread
when they return unharmed. It was
only the other day that a large number of
the men of the Contingent met at the Hyde
Park statue in Sydney to unite ia begging for em-
ployment. This, indeed, was the opportunity
to show how highly their services were esteemer*
and how genuine the sympathy with them. ,"4.
on that occasion no guard of honour was
to encircle them; Lord Carington did not tn»
make his appearance in Lancer uniform to sea*
each man by the hand; even Piain Bill Hall l
was urgently detained from presenting Pi l }
“succ-ur them in their hour of need. P°.- and
devils I They asked for bread, and were present 8
with a medal and butter.
The Trustees of the Sydney Free Library f who
stoutly refuse to Issue novels on. Sunday. ‘
order to stop the excessive use of prose 0


» are the cause of much mirth to some of
Actio*. con temporaries, and public sympathy
0 ur r Mr. Copeland if he persists in his
th0 obstinacy of these Sabbatical
8 ctlon ts gives way to popular indignation. It
ailtocr fatcical t0 a ppiy reason to the ponder-
<r0U <1 •dlculous repty Which the guileless Young
ously rl tQ jf ri Copeland. Thelalleged'reason
vouoi> 8a b ev ident herring-across-the-trail that
ffS * SU id he now only playing int0 the hands of the
it ff0U entlemen who appear to boss the library
pi° uS g tbat r eply seriously. At the same time
t° ta j actg rem ain—viz,: (1), That the Library was
t bese , n gundays by order of the House on the
0P enf \ of jd r . Hurley in 1878, and (2), That it is
ffl0t lofled as to two-thirds of the books required
n° ff ° der 0 f a few irresponsible trustees. These
w 01 ts w hioh Mr. Young has admitted. It
* re 1 t0 pe seen whether members will submit
reD this defiance of their will by a coterie of irre-
sponsible Sabbatarian strategists.
Inch}
per
per Inch.
Gratis or Subsobipiion to thi Bulutik
...-For one year, 24a.; half-year, 12a. Gd.;
faster. 6s.6d.-In advance.
TBI ADTJBMSuro rams are 5s. per 1
l 0 ' J7i positions In the paper 7s. Gd.
fPv paragraph advertisements 10s. per men.
Knimts are allowed on continuous advertise-
S ordered for periods, as follows :-On ad-
visements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
«nn« lOner cent.; For 26 consecutive insertions!
ffrfl cent.: For 62 consecutive insertions, 36 per
«mt No allowance can be made on advertise-
ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
®!2“ H Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
h* made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
nnier Sth postage stamps of any Australian
Oolanv may be sent, if more convenient.
Joseph Arch, M.P.
Joseph Abch, the labour representative in the
English House of Commons for Norfolk, is a man
to whom the term “ practical ” can be properly
applied. His election is chiefly owing to the
support of the Agricultural Labourers Union, an
organisation which he himself formed under very
great difficulties and dangers. This Union, which
had its small beginning in the village lof Well-
bourne “under a spreading chesjtnut-tree,” now
has branches all over England, and has already
done much to ameliorate the condition of
labourers throughout the kingdom. Mr. Arch
has learnt, by personal experience, the troubles
that afliict the class which he represents.
He is the son of a laborer, whose toil returned
him the munificent sum of Da. a week, which
amount was supplemented by the 3s. that his
mother was able to get for a week’s charriDg. The
boy Joseph had to go to work at a very early age,
but in spite of his incessant toil he managed to add
to the scanty teaching given to him by his mother
a stock of learning which enabled him to read and
then led him to study the cause of the oppression
of his class. His own wage as a laborer was 9s. a
week, and with this sum he had to provide for his
own wants and those of a small family.
Thought led to action, and in 1873, when he
was 50 years of age, undeterred by the
threats of the masters, he founded the Union with
which his name has subsequently been so closely
identified. As a speaker he is vigorous, clear, and
so fluent that even the best of shorthand writers
have considerable difficulty in keeping up with
him. His efforts have been of immense benefit to
the class whose cause he has championed.
K. C. E. Childers, M.P.
The Right Hon. Hugh Culling Eardley Childers is
the son of a Yorkshire clergyman, and was born
in 1827. When only 23 years of age he emigrated
to Victoria with his wife, and, being elected for
Portland, became very shortly afterwards a mem-
ber of the existing Government. In 1857 he re-
turned to England as Agent-General for Victoria,
and in 1860 was elected to the Commons for Ponte-
fract. He became First Lord of the Admiralty in
Gladstone’s Ministry of I860, but resigned on
account of ill-health in 1871. In 1872 he again be-
came Agent-General for Victoria, but when the
Liberals returned to power in 1888 he accepted
office, first as Secretary for War, and subsequently
as Chancellor of the Exchequer in Gladstone s
Ministry, which latter position he held until the
defeat of that party in 1885, Defeated for Ponte-
fract at the recent general election, he succeeded
m obtaining election at Edinburgh one of the
divisions of which town he now represents.
All Darlinghurst Sessions prisoners are
eharacteiised by the S.M. Herald as being either
"well-dressed” or “respectable-looking,” and
one of them— but read the report, or perhaps you
wouldn’t believe us:—“A respectably-dressed man
named Thomas Deassy was accused of having
committed, on December 21, at Blue Gum Mat, an
assault upon an elderly half-caste woman named
Charlotte Ashby. Mr. Levien appeared for the
defence. The evidence of the prosecutrix was so
that the j ury, without waiting for
urther evidence, returned a verdict of not guilty,
and the prisoner was discharged.” Pooh! what
nd of “porridge” is this they are serving out,
we wonder? The woman’s evidence appears to
ave satisfied the lower court that there was a
Vrirna facie case, and also the Attorney-General;
nt here, you see, after all the expense of the
Proceedings which have gone before the anxiety
% must have occasioned people for weeks ancl
weeks-pooh! the thing is ended like a burst
ubble. How, now, is this astounding result to be
accounted for ? Listen
LThe Mystical Solicitor.
No Daileys or Joe Lowes for us ;
We know, sirs, what we’ve seen ;
No silk gowns or forensic fuss—
Give us R. H. Levien.
He “ shoves ” it to the jury straight;
They like bold Harry’s way ;
You doubt it; ah, well, just you wait.
"Not guilty,” they all say.
Have Darley, then, and not Levien,
It will be for your tears;
A jury, sirs, of mournful mien
Will land you for ten years l
Hfs griffin straight they take as meant,
And likewise take his tip ;
He’ll bet tho man is innocent,
And let them hold the kip.
And this is what we’ve heard him say :—
' Things missing from some shelves I
What! blast a girl’s career for this—
It might have been yourselves.”
Ah, you may laugh—well, have your fling;
And you may even scoff ;
ht this is just the kind of thing
That gets the people off.
[?]
Sydney, Wednesday.
Dear Belle,- Of course the big event of the
week was the distribution of the Soudan medals,
which took place on Saturday last at the Agricul-
tural Grounds. It was a queer show, dear, and
we eked out not a little amusement during the
afternoon. Most of the Contingent men were in
their ordinary work-day clothes, and presented
anything but a soldierly appearance as they
sheepishly shambled up to the Governor upon
their names being called to receive their hard-
earnedjf?) rewards. Some of them put on an air
of importance which was truly ludicrous, whilst
others grinned from ear to ear with embarrassment
like overgrown school boys receiving their first
prizes for good conduct. The Governor looked
bored and handsome, as he shook hands with the
men and handed them their medals at the same
time, but he worried through the whole affair
with a patient good humour, and was only once
heard to urge the men to “ come quicker.” Some
of the funny men around the dais tried to per-
suade us that the band had been ordered
to play the “ Dead March ” in honour of
the poor little defunct goat, and that the
renowned donkey was to receive a medal also;
but you know, dear, men are always inclined to
become faeetious in order to relieve their feelings
during a proceeding fraught with monotony, and
JOSEPH ARCH, M.P.
in which they take no active part, so we forgave
them when we discovered that neither goat nor
donkey had any place in the programme. Nobody
seemed sorry when all the medals were distributed,
and Lady Cariugton, accompanied by Miss Har-
bord and Mr. Wallington, drove up in a carriage
and four, and at onGe alighted. It was a remark-
able fact that not one bit of enthusiasm was dis-
played until Lady Oarington (who came in riding
oostume), mounted a handsome charger, and,
accompanied by the Governor, inspected the
ranks. It was a pretty sight to see the prancing
steeds, with their riders in handsome uniforms,
stepping along to a nice march accompaniment
played excellently by the band. I always did
think a man looks his very best in a becoming
uniform astride a magnificent horse, and I had no
occasion to change my opinion on Saturday.
Dozens of glasses were levelled on one rider in
particular, with broad, square shoulders, a
long sweeping blonde moustache, and a fearless
eye, the tout ensemble making our very beau ideal
of a soldier. We all adored him, dear, and lam
sure he would have felt flattered had he been
aware of our wholesale admiration. We were all
rather surprised to find that Mr. Lambie (who,
you may remember, went with the Contingent as
correspondent to one of the papers, and got shot
in one of his limbs) received no medal. It seemed
to us that he had faced as many dangers as the
rest of the Crew, and yet he got no recognition.
But. at all events, I expect he fakes more pride in
in his bullet-wound scar than in all the medals in
the world. It is a good thing this Contingent
business is ended atflast, for, as you may well
imagine, we are all heartily tired of it.
Ned went to Mons. Kowalski's banquet in the
evening, which was tendered to that clever musi-
dhn by his many ardent admirers. It was held in
Baumann’s and, I hear, was excellently car-
ried ont. The menu was printed on pink-satin,
and was a work of art in itself, and I believe
Baumann quite excelled himself in the multitude
of choice dishes he provided for the company. I
believe there were about 60 gentlemen present
mostly foreigners, however, and the affair ter-
minated pleasantly at about midnight.
I am sorry to acknowledge it, but positively the -
total absence of gallantry, tv® common manners,
in some of our Sydney middle class men, is quite
appalling. Iwent into the Kailway Refreshment-
room one day last week in order to get a glass of
iced lemonade before the train started, but as I
was about to give my order to the serving girl a
big man reached over my shoulder and throwing
a silver piece on the counter demanded some
lemonade at once, as he had to catch his train. My
blood boiled a little, though, the day being hot,
I made a big effort to keep cool; but
when another and yet another man came
and took advantage of their superior height
and loud voices, and quite ignored the rule
of “first come first served,” I timidly sug-
gested to the girl that, as I too had the same
train to catch, it was only fair I should have my
share of attention, especially as I had waited so
long. I daresay you have often notioed, dear, that
these counter girls never see a lady customer as
long as some of the other sex require to be waited
upon, and I don’t blame them a bit, for I believe I
should do just the same, for “ ’tia our nature to,”
so I wasn’t at all surprised when this girl
in question demanded in a saucy voice,
“ What is it you want, then ? ” No, my
anger didn’t fall upon her one bit, but I
couldn’t help being deeply grieved to think
that just for the sake of remaining thirsty for
half-an-hour or so, or missing a train, they
oould so far forget themselves as to be both rude
and inconsiderate to one of the weaker sex. I
sincerely hope that these were just a chance lot,
and not fair specimens of Sydney manhood—or
woe to us in time of war or trouble if it is to such
as these we shall have to look to for protection!
But, after all, these poor apologies for men aren’t
worth a thought.
Do you believe in prophecies, ma cU6rie ? I con-
fess I used when a child to live in great dread of
the final smash-up of the world fixed by Mother
Shipton for 1881. The anticipation of the great
end isn’t pleasant when one is very young and
hasn’t had time to become a bit weary of life
consequent on the many bitter experiences we all
have to undergo, more or less, so when that
dreaded year came and went just the same as its
predecessors I lost all my faith in prophecies for
ever. It appears that Michel Notre-Dame, the
freat French astrologer, foretold that when Good
riday should fall on St. George’s Day, Easter on
St. Mark’s Day, and Corpus Christi on St. John’s
Day, then would be the end of everything. As it
is a fact that all these conditions will be fulfilled
this year, I suppose the believers in Notre Dame
will spend most of their time in prayer, and get
absolution for their sins all in'readiness, and at the
end of 1886 they will look as foolish as all weak-
minded people do who pay any attention to the
prophecies of man. Why, if our cleverest men
fail in their prognostications of the weather, how
is it possible they can foretell greater events ?
I have been puzzling my head for the past week
or two to guess why the magpieish combination
of black and white had obtained fashion’s appro-
val. The combination is, as I have no doubt you
have noticed, becoming only to a few, unless,
indeed, the blending is very artistic, besides which
it has such a half-mourning look. But a letter I
received yesterday from my devoted continental
correspondent explains all. She tells me that
black and white costumes are worn almost univer-
sally out of compliment to poor King Alfonso, and
thus we follow the fashion here, never dreaming
that there is a meaning attached to it. The nicest
gown of this description (Alfonso gown I call it) I
have seen here was at the Theatre Royal the other
night, and consisted of a rich black merveilleux
satin with bold facings of pure white velvet,
and long train of the same. The effect was lovely,
and I think it must have been an imported gown,
for I don’t believe there is a brain in Sydney big
enough or artistic enough to conceive such. And
talking of things artistic—not gowns, however,
this time—reminds me of a story which comes
from the backwoods of America. At a certain
art school (fancy an art school out in the Far
West), the students being very ambitious, in-
formed their master that they considered them-
selves capable of drawing the figure from the
antique. Accordingly, a few easts from some of
the famous models were sent for, and upon arrival
Clytie, Psyche, and the Apollo Belvidere were un-
packed, and gave the greatest satisfaction to the
students, but when the Venus of Milo, with her
arms broken off short, was placed before their ex-
pectant eyes, their anger knew no bounds. Their
indignation was so great that they actually took
an action for damages against the railway com-
pany for the disgusting carelessness of their
officials, who had broken the arms off one of their
best models. The story goes on to say that the art
school actually won the suit, and recovered heavy
damages. But this, dear, you must take with a
grain of salt, as most American “ yarns ” require it.
The cricket match played in the Domain last
Monday afternoon between the Press and Parlia-
ment was a particularly interesting affair to—
well, to the members o Press and Parliament and
their friends. By the time we arrived the Press
men were looking rather doleful in their antici-
pation of a beating, but hey seemed to pluck up a
little courage when they observed about a score of
laoies seat themselves in the visitors tent, and ap-
parently take an interest in the play. It pains me
much to own it, but 1 must confess that our literati
don’t shine at cricaet. Their fielding was. upon
this occasion exasperatingiy mufflsh, but perhaps
the dear fellows got cogitating about next day's
leading articles, so that whea a ball surprised them
they had to tear their thoughts from the “ Water
Suppiy,’’“Lambton Strike,” and the like, before
tJjeF realised the fact that they had made a most
misa - . ®ht, however, they were pretty
good humoured over it all, and it was quite a
rlcasant afternoon for all of us. We fell to wish-
-15? *5 y w 9 uld these sociable contests oftener
During the afternoon the ladies
- i Q vited into the * House ” grounds to partake
of refreshments whioh were laid out in a large
marquee. We left the Press still manfully trying
to make a decent soore, but heard later on that
Atlastwe are having “ Called’ Back ” at the
Theatre Royal, and every night, so far, has seen
a paca pd house. A whisper got abroad on Monday
that the Vice-regal party intended to patronise
the play that night, so all the ladies donned their
very best costumes for the occasion. The
rumour was quite correct, for, just before
the seoond act, the expected ones put in
an appearance, and it was quite funny to hear
the orchestra break off in the middle of a waltz, or
something, to play the National Anthem. Both
Lady Carmgton and Miss Harbord show very quiet
taste in their theatre or concert-room attire. This
night Lady Carington wore black grenadine and a
lovely cluster of pink roses on her corsage. Miss
Harbord, a cream dress made high to the neek and
elbow sleeves. Miss Kate Bishop wears a most
exquisite gown in one of the acts. It is simply a
pale-pink plush with a long train, the sole trim-
ming being loops of broad pink ribbons. With this
dress she wears a charming pink hat, and the
whole makes up a delicious picture,
Carington holds another reoeption to-day,
and if I don t go at onee and dress I shall as-
tosign mjgelff* behlnd ’ 00 1 wiU merel y stay just
Yours, as ever,
MAB.
Ellen vale, Townsville, Aug:. 18, 1885.
Gentlemen,— l have much pleasure in advising
you that I have used St. Jacob’s Oil in my family
for sore throat and rheumatic pains with great
success, and consider it one of the best remedies
ever put before the public. I have also used it
upon my poultry for croup and throat disorders,
and have always found it give immediate relief
I would recommend every poultry farmer to trv
it, and they will find that their coops, instead of
being: empty, wilt be filled with strong, healthy
poultry.—Yours faithfully, ’ y
C. WELLINGTON.
(Note.—A drench of from two to five drops 8t
Jacob’s Oil, diluted with warm water, is a really
simple, reliable, and harmless remedy for any in-
ternal disorders of poultry. We believe Mr. Wel-
lington s success has been almost phenomenal
whilst some of his neighbours have suffered verv
heavy losses.) J
The proprietor of Wolfe's Schnapps has
succeeded in making a spirit which is appreciated
by the whole world.
Kind friends think of us particularly at
wedding time. Thoughts spur us to action. Ac-
tions take the form of mementos, and these latter
assume various forms. Difficulty in the way of
selecting presents ministered to by seeking the
assistance of Bray Brothers, 402 and 404 George-
street. A more beautiful lot of goods, whether
for use or adornment, than their sets for dinner
breakfast, tea, dessert, or toilet, statuary, vases
and fancy glas3, it would be impossible to find in
the colony.*
Every year Wolfe’s Schnapps gains in
favour with a discerning public, while other
liquors are cast into oblivion.
C. W. ROBERTS
Slngla Battle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only M.
Small Bottle, , Its. 6d.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shilling* per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
I*. 6d« per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
Bs. per Bottle
SUM,
In Flash*, Bottles, and Imperial Quart#
▲t lowest possible Prices.
GIN—IN FLASKS,
ISq Bd, each,
The Key Brand, and Henhets Prize Medal Brand,
In stone bottles and souare bottles,
LARGfIST sin.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND IIILLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts,
C. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets,
aroasT.


Personal
Items
Saraham Berry is 62.
The Spalding-Airey Soudan enquiry: They
have found thB woman.
The best thing Sir J ohn Robertson can do
at the present political juncture is to fall seri-
ously sick.
“ In England, Sir Henry Parkes and Ten-
nyson were always together.” One touch of
poetry makes the whole world kin.
The universal opinion in Tasmania is that
the present Governor, one Strahan, an elderly
bachelor, has considerably lowered the tone of
Government House.
Mr. Brunton Stephens, the gifted author
of “ Convict Once,” is, we are told, now engaged
on an epic, entitled, “Convict on Several Occa-
sions to be dedicated to an illustrious Parliamen-
tary official up South.
London Society published a portrait of
Henniker Heaton with one number, and followed
it up with that of Longfellow in the next issue.
Both men have written a good deal of fiction.
Lod g f ello w—Longbo wf el lo w.
Dr. Bright, the eminent Tasmanian medico,
who, after 38 years’ hard work, goes to England
for a year's well-earned rest, is agreeably situated
in Hobart. On one side cf bis fine house is a
pub ,on the other a monumental mason’s. The
doctor’s enemies aver that people first go to the
rum shop, then to Dr. Brighc, and then to tte
monument man.
The news that Jo3h
Billings bas gone sloffc
ha 9 just been airi y wafl ed
along to the flourishing
town of Burrawang (N 9.
W.). Josh hadn’t many
sorrowing relatives over
there, but as he was a
“ brother pressman,” ihe
editor of the Burrawang
paper “alung him” an
obituary par, and risked
the information that be
“died respected by all
who knew him. Just
the same as if he bad
been a Heaton or a 'Wil-
son.
“They do things
better in Melbourne.”
Here’s one of them.
When the last Exhibition
was on, competition was
invited for tbe musical
setting of the prize can-
tata. The award fell to
M. Leon Caron. A month
or so after the decision
had been giveD, one cf
the tusefui competitors,
Mr. J. A. Delaney, called
round for his rejected
score, and, after con-
siderable delay, it wes ;
returned to him uith the ;
leaves uncut. Now we j
begin to have a hazy idea j
as to how it came to piss I
that that the crow poet
Meaden was first, and [
poor Kendall a bad ■
second.
The cahle tells us j
that Mr. Craw ford b as got
his divorce, but that Sir
Charles Dllke, who was
named by the petitioner
(on Mrs. Crawford’s con-
fession) as a co-respond-
ent, has been acquited.
So they “wouldnt be-
lieve the girl” again. We
will now proceed to give ?
an extract Horn an in-
variable summing up by jj
Judge Wilkinson, of
Sydney, in certain casts.
“And gentlemen, another
important question new
arises for your considera-
tion. What motive could
toe girl have had in in-
venting all this extra-
ordinary story ? . . .”
Sir Charles, unmindrul of
the excellent example of
the Prince ot Wales in
the Mordaunt case, de-
clined to go into the box,
and his character is in
some quarters regarded
as having by no means
been vindicated. Per-
haps Sir Charles was wise
in his generation. Wales,
to be believed, had only
lo swear.
“ Ex-Bushman ” writes to the Argus,
warning people against "bush missionaries, who
do no good, and are a disgrace to Christianity, if
not to humanity.” This cannot, anyhow, refer to
the Rev. Peter Campbell, who, we are sorry to
say, is still in gaol.
In the Hobart Museum there is an elabor-
ate coloured ploture of the Chinese hell, the lead-
ing Devil whereof has a face exactly line that of
Mr. J W. Inglis, M.L.A. To go to the Chinese hell
must be a terrible punishment.
The two Louis—Riel and Battenberg—
came into the world each without a shirt. One was
hanged from a rope, and the other from the neck
of a Princess. It is whispered that the living
Louis regrets that he wasn’t changed at nurse
with the other fellow.
- That well-known priest and scientist, the
Rev. Julian Tenison-Woods, says that two men
have confessed to him that they were guilty of
different murders for which Innocent men were
hanged. What weight have all the arguments for
the maintenance of capital punishment against
such a fact as this ?
A young man named Olive, who is very
beautiful indeed, is travelling round the Austra-
lasian colonies, working up Lady Churchill’s
“Primrose League.” Olive can make you a
member of it and thus enable you to show practical
sympathy with England’s aristocracy for the price
of ten glasses of rum—half-a-crown.
“ Sir William Des Voeux, late Governor of
Fiji, has been appointed Governor of Newfound-
land.”—Cablegram.
From sunstrokes to snow
Sir William will go—
We smiled at his billet when told of it;
First a tropical shore,
Then the chill Labrador—
Egad I quite the hot and the cold of it.
Some years ago. Scene—hall of one of
Government offices. Perspiring engineer hard at
work fixing gae-machine oi intricate mechanism.
Mushroom Minister comes down stair* with party
of friends and pauses near recumbent engineer.
M.M.: “Pah! what blanked smell I most offensive I
Workman, get finished and go I Never smelt such
a dam .” Here the engineer rose to his feet—
“l shall go,” he said, “when I have done this to
my satisfaction; and at 4 o’clock I shall lay the
words you have spoken on the table of the House.”
It was Jacob Garrard, M.L.A , now N. S.W. Minister
of Works.
The exceedingly Reverend Alick J. Dowie
has publicly resolved not to Contribute to the fund
for testimonialising Bishop Moorhouse because
James M. (we don t know whether to say Mel-
bourne or Manchester) promised once in the dim
P*st never to accept another billet when he’d done
with Melbourne. Alexander John says Dr. Moor-
“ 7’ 1 ® 6 is “ going home with a lie in bis hand to get
£4OOO a year. ’ £4OOO a year for one lie I Righteous
Mose3l how much have we earned ?
Henniker Heaton is now a Tory of Tories.
He is so blue-blooded that if you were to cut his
jugular by accident fluid indigo would spout out
with the force of the Yan Yean. But we remem-
ber that when Henniker first left Australia to
dabble in English politics he finessed with what
the S. M. Herald am Argus writers call “ Fenian-
iem,’ and was so proud of having been driven
round ia Ireland by Parnell that accounts of the
outing appeared in no end of colonial papers.
A correspondent of the Sydney Town and
Country Journal states that at the recent
summer meet of tbe T.T. Club, at Mowbray, Tas-
mania, “ His Excellency Sir George Cumine
Strahan, K C M.G , and Lady Strahan were pre-
sent each day iu the vice-regal box.” As Sir
George has always been regarded as the “most
eligible bachelor ” in Tasmania, this statement
must nave created a momentary shock to be taken
with the proverbial grain of salt. But if it be
true I!!
A certain lord, about whom much was
heard a few years is ago, is about to return to
England from one of the Australian colonies,
where he has been lying low “ waiting for it to
blow over.” A recent number of London Society
describes his lordship as “ a man whose faults
were entirely of the head, not the heart, and who
was‘nobody’s enemy but his own.’”
Fair words to plaster over
Caused something like a “ ruction.”
Extortion was the head’s slight fault;
The heart’s, of course, Seduction.
Mr. Justice Kerferd, the new Victorian
political judge, has got into hot water at his
maiden assizes. Three young men were found
guil'y of robbery in company, as the outcome of
"STILL SO GENTLY O'ER ME STEALING.
MEMORY WILL BRING BACK THE FEELING.”
what some of the locals (Maryborough) consider
to have been nothing more than a drunken spree.
Anyway, the jury recommended the three young
fellows to mercy on account of it “ being an ag-
gravated case on both sides.” In passing sentence
that judicial quality of mind for which Mr. Ker-
ferd is remarkable (Hide Mr. James Service’s speech
in defence of the “ job ’) peeped out. His Honor
discovered, by reference to his book, that the par-
ticular cffenca of these prisoners is punishable by
15 years. So he spilt it up among the three, and
gave them five jeara each. “ Oh, most just judge.”
- Shakespeare.
At the Bathurst (N.P.W.) Ass ; ze3 all the
principal prisoners defended by David
Buchanan, and he got them ail out of it. This is
the way they carry on in Court there. A woman
was prosecuting a town Lothario for breaking
into her house in her husband’s absence Now for
a piece of the report:—“ Witness here looked at
prisoner and smiled, shaking her head at him.
Mr. Buchanan accused her of winking at prisoner,
but amidst the laughter of the jury the witness
declared that she had only smilea at him.” And
later to David—“ I did not giia at the prisoner
just now, I simply smiled ; my reason lor so doing
is that he embed at me; I did not tell you just now
that I smiled because 1 knew he was guilty.” But
David didn’t ask many questions. He contented
himself with lolling back in his chair, ana keeping
fixed upon the witness a look of unutterable con-
tempt. This lice of defence was perfectly success-
ful. It broke down the witaess—and the ease, too.
The Boston Herald says that when
“ Cuny” Bellew was in America, lately, he was in-
troduced to Perugini, an actor whom he greeted
with much hauteur. In reply to a question,
Cumy said that he had only been once in the
States for a few hours, to which Perugini, riled at
the other's manner, replied, hastily: ” What on
earth is the use ot telling such stuff as that?
When you were a boy you and I travelled together
all over this country in the Holman Opera Com-
pany, and old Mrs. Holman used to give you your
bath, and spank you, and put you to bed just as
she did the rest of us. If you would cultivate a
better remembrance of old acquaintances these
embarrassing situations would not arise.” Mr.
Bdlew flushed and bit his lip, and Perugini turned
on his heel and walked away. This is most pro-
bably a lie, but there is plenty of evidence that
prosperity has bad its effect upon the histrionic
masher. He is not quite the same sort of man that
he was when he worried round Melbourne to col-
lect those thrilling tales commencing: “ Ye iter-
day a horse attached to a spring-cart,” &c. This
i 3 always the way. If Alfred’s reporters were to
accede to much wealth we don’t believe they
would ever recognise saveloy men or hot-pie pur-
veyors again.
Sir Frederick Leighton, President of the
Royal Academy, has received his baronetcy at the
suggestion of Lord Salisbury. It was a significant
ctre am stance that Gladstone passed over the
President when he recommended two Royal
academicians—Miflais and Watts—for the distinc-
tion last year. Perhaps the Grand Old Man is not
an admirer of excruciatingly high art; or, maybe,
he disapproved of Sir Frederick’s conduct i i the
notorious Belt business. Belt, it will be remem-
bered, is the sculptor whose genius is apparent to
everybody exespt a certain high-toned clique of
Academicians, of whom Sir F. is high priest. They
look down upon him as a man sprung from the
ranks, unversed in classical lore, and indifferent
to the graceful arrangement of a toga. Backed
up by this aesthetic “push,” an obscure sculptor
named Lawes grossly libelled Belt in his profes-
sional capacity. The Belt v. Lawes action fal-
lowed, and the former obtained a verdict for £5OOO
damages. Then it was that the Leighton division
played their trump card. They had found the
funds for Lawes during the trial, but when it was
concluded their man declared himself insolvent,
and poor Belt was let in for his own costs-some-
thing like £4OOO without getting a penny of his
verdict. If be was really a party to such a scurvy
trick, Sir Frederick Leighton ought to be created
C.M.G.
George Augustus Sala perpetrates a most
audacious joke In one of his "Golden Fleece”
Argus articles. Speaking of his limited capacity
for sight-seeing of the “beautiful landscape”
order, G.A s. writes:—“Providence created some
persons to hold a quart and others only a pint, and
I fear that I am able to contain not an Imperial,
but only a ‘ reputed pint ’ ” What a merry wag it
is! G.A.S. may only contain a pint at each sitting,
but, then—think of how often he sits I By the
way. speaking of the rubicuad Sala’s amiable
weakne3S for the cup that cheers, we have known
the apostle of Pommery and Heldsieck’s Dry
Monopole slake his patrician thirst with gin. We
remember drinking in his company—that’s to say,
we both stood in front of the same bar-at an old-
fashioned London hostelry. We each ordered
“three of unsweetened,” and we each tendered a
shilling ia payment. Simultaneously we swal-
lowed the poetry iospiring liquor. From that
point our lines of c induct diverged. Sala, like an
aristocrat, said to the barman, “D n the change
—keep it." We didn't. Ninepsnce was almost ai
much to us, in there days, as-it is now. That
incident, though, inspired us with a feeling of
reverence for tne great man. Toe journalist who
can affoi d shillings for threepenny “ goes ” of gin
and still pay his landlady, must be an industrious
fellow.
Under the heading of “ Christmas Carols ”
a Bourke (N S W.) pioer writes:—“The editor of
the 'limes, hke a sanguinary wolf, crei pa cut
behind us with a sword, reeking with sanguinary
gore of other victims, and, raising his blu Genr,
attunots to stab to tne hea t with his steel pen,
dipped in poisoned fluid, our little paper, we
smile grimly, and are ready." Scissors! what sort
of Christmas cheer have they in Bourke ?
A prominent Hobart official, well known
for his equally regular attendance at church and
the bar of the nearest pub. congratulated Mr.
Camera on the acquisition of much property in
the city. “ Well,” sa'd Mr IC , “ property is a good
investment, is it not?” “Good, yes; butitereia
one thing better—heavenly grace is better than
aDy earthly riches.” And his official superior says
that a conversati >n with him is as good as a u lass
of rum any cold morniDg.
Why did we forsake Masonry? Just be-
cause no one with a sense of humour couid stick
to tne craft. Many a time, in Melbourne, we bae
to be carried home oia door by a couple of sturdy
brethren from the Lonsdale-street Lodge. No—it
was not alcoaol. It was tne pro,tration resulting
from suppressed laughter. At last cur wite inter-
fered-said she enjoyed a good laugh hereeb, but
that n» m.ernal organs, however tough, cmld
stand ihe wear and tear of suoh constant mirth
without giving way, and that, until we insured
our life, the mad waggery of “Feint 18” would
have to be relinquished. All this comes back to
us on reading of the Masonic banquet given to
Lord Carington in Sydney the other night, There
were ladies in the gallery—relatives, no doubt, of
the “majestically tied” men before whose stub-
born assault beef, poultry, and vegetables
becoming mere memories of the past SornJ i
the ladies (we quote) gave the “ honours (Feint to
as heartily and as brotherly as the Masons k
neath.” This is ominous. It suggests that
wine which gladdened the hearts of some marri I
brethren loosened their tongues also. The a
which has so many feints already should nr >t k
entrusted with more. But it was Brother Carin
ton’s speech that flattened us out. He said-*?r
take the opportunity to express my great ninoL, 1
at seeing the galleries filled with the graoo o r ?
beauty of this great city. It shows how utf-nJi 4
wro ;g those are who tell us that Freemason y
is unpopular amongst the ladies. Their presen
here shows entirely the reverse.” This is tuy? 6
opposed to tue opinion of the late Mrs Can Sr y
who, it will he remembered, treated the S’
masonic body, from the Grand Master down to el
most awkward apprentice, with unseemly
tumely. But it was when Brother Carinaton
after alluding to the masoDic position held bv fh
Prince of Wales and his brotners, and to
that “ His Royal Highness the Prince of W«ioo- Ot
the Alpha Lodge, himself admitted his royal V Q
into masonry’’—went on, "Brethren, mav ?2 n
Freemasons of this great colony yet be united i
our lodges as we are uuitediu our loyalty to o n
Queen (applause), and ,in our grand creed fro™
which no one is excluded, provided he believe •
the glorious Architect of the heavens and
earth—(cheers)—and so long as he practices ;!! e
sacred duties of morality,” that we herL™
thoughtful. The “sacred duties of
Again we stood in the court where His Roili
Highness gave evidence in the “ Lady Mordaiinr»
erso, heard—it was on everybody’s tongue—hn
the promotion of “ morality ” was! the coming
King’s chief object in life (it was equally dear
his grand uncles, George and William), and
well he came out of the Stead business. Alas! ™
have known “ Worshipful Masters ” who, in huai 6
ness, would snatch the inside runniDg from thsi
dearest friend, or, in the language of the hEoki r
run a “stiff ’un”to jostle him out of the rail’
Aye. and others, high up in the mystic body w ’
we known to whom you ciuld not introduce vm,,
grown-up daughters with safety. No, Broth™.
Carington. If a man is not honourable and moral
simply because it is right so to be, no belief in tC
personality of a Great Architect of the universe-!
no possession of variegated aprons or high-sonns
ing titles will make him so. un “'
Upon the Sunday
after the arrival of the
members of tho Fedeial
Couseh at Hobart many
of the churches offered
special prayers on their
behalf. At the very time
bey were being prayedi
for the wicked Federal-
ists were having “ a good
time” at the Salmon
Ponds above New Nor-
folk, having left Hobart
early on that Sunday
Porning-on pleasure
bent. We know tbe case
ot a youDg man who is
being prayed for by a
number of pious old per-
sons on the ground that,
abhouffh he is & very
wicked young man, he is
too good for the Devil
to have.” Perhaps the
churches in Tasmania will
continue to offer prayeis
on behalf of Douglas,
Service, Berry, and Co.
on somewhat similar
grounds. The effort is
worth making, though
the chancts of success
are somewhat slender. At
any rate, “ pray on,
brothers.”
There has been
trouble in a Tasmanian
country district, where
the local Stipendiary
Magistrate, Coroner,
Chairman of the Court
of General Seseior s, Com-
missioner of the Supreme
Court, Deputy-Registrar
of Births, Deaths, and
Marriages, and the Lord
knows what else, was
summoned to show cause
why he should not be
called upon to support a
certain pledge of physical
affection which his wife’s
maid declared she had
borne to him after certain
complimentary remarks
to the effect that she was
“a pretty girl,” &c. On
the evidence of the de>
fendant and his wife the
case was dismissed. Tbe
inhabitants of the dis-
trict are evidently of
opinion that there has
been a miscarriage of
justice, for an attempt
has been made to burn
defendants fifigy, and
liberal subset iptibns have
been raised tor the girl
who brought the charge
ot seduction against him.
The official is connected
by marriage with a gen-
tleman holding a very
high offioial position in
Tasmania.
At the Stead sympathy meeting held in
Adelaide recently, the Rev. S. J. Prior owned, in
support'nar the Pali, Mall cause, that the charges
made against the “ Maiden Tribute ” could also be,
made against the Bible. Tlrs was received with'
deafening yells of "shame” from all the white*,
chokered fossils present, many of whom evidently
expected the earth to gape and swallow the vile,
blasphemer. When the tumult settled down,
several shrivelled-up divines declared that " they-
had felt it their duty to read tte Pall Mall,
Gazette disclosures, but they had done so with,
great, pain and shrinking.” Photos of these
worthy elders in the act of shrinking ought to selil
well.
The great Australian panaoea, the lash,
was administered to two prisoners at Pontridge,
Me,b , last week. ‘ They appoared in the tlugel-
mlo,'*/0?111 a( t' ir , e( l iQ the new garb that the penal
officials have selected as more comforta ie and
warm, says the local Herald. Jg is pleasing to
think that those men have warm, comfortable
togs, although they may not be able to wear them
for some time. Alter “taking his gruel,” the
hrst naan turned coolly to hangman Jocks and
salr*5 al r* „ 6 bands, old man, you've done your
duty. lae second offered to “ take another 50 on
t >p or his dose if he were given the option ot ad-
mit, is term g 10 to Judge Jeffries Holroyd. Tne
authorities withhold their consent for the present.
t, months ago, Charles Cripps, of
Bathurst (N S.W), invested a nolo i i a racing
sweep, drew ttie second horse, and awoke one fiD«
morning with a Jiirht heart and a heavy purse,
having scooped £5OO. This seemed to be such a
particularly sim t>ie, and yet profitable, style of
business that bo psned up on larger scale, but
someho w or another his good luck didn’t seem to
stick. He held on, ho ever, until his last cent,
went, and then he backed his brain against a re-
volver bullet and the bullet won In his pocket
was found a letter, which ran: Eglinton Well,
Jean wnen you receive thfs I shall be light and
wori hless c ay. Creeping things may revel in fbtif
sport, and put my clay to ferii’ise the soil.
dying wish, I ask you not to eLter into thehdy
bonds with Mr. - -. In c'osing 1 will say, wim
Dickens— It is hard to take to heart the lesson
that such deaths teach, yet none regret it.' Hoping
you will take this lesson to heart, I am the remain®
ot yours, sincerely, C. J. CripW*


g e ems that it was not an employee of
Lloy d and Collins, Sydney, who “ sneaked ” some
loves a few days since, and, as far as we can hear,
things are “ A 1 at Lloyds.” Our par. was a rat-
tling g° od ad ' for the lirm > tout rather a bad one
ug assistants. A morniDg paper was our in-
£“rnant m the matter, and the result of the error
(. another warning against putting one's trust in
the Sydney dailies.
* certain Tasmanian gentleman of
#ebr®w exlraciian is the personification of
The Calf and the Selfetor.
1 “Sorry to separate parent and offspring, but I must have money,” said
the selector.
2. To the market with me ? not if I can
help it,” said the calf.
3. “Peaceably, if lean.”
4. “ Forcibly, if I must.”
5. “ Comp, now ! ”
6. “No? Then take that.” “Bah!” remarked the calf,
T. “Now we’re off.”
8. “ Are we though ? ”
9. * * M ( )Mt r * * |
10. “Let me see, now! ”
11. “If we are ever to get the re ”
Iff. “Hullo, didu’tsee thatstone! ” i
13. “ [ say, dash it. Lead us off, somebody ! ”
14. “ Blfcss the guide post—dash
the bl—— mlDg calf.”
J “ Happy though*, go home fjr a cow-
belt! ”
16. “ Bah! me thinks you are my mother iu disguise ! ”
“Boo! lam your long lost mother-follow me.”
IT. “At last! ”
Whioh 1 J* 18 wife had a lon K Illness, during
qu etll . I “ er ,bhysl c i a a, experimenting as usual, fre-
Hlartft ®hanged the medicine, and the result was
e S3 Dhpo- eo,:ion °f bottles containing more or
greatnii h Afterwards a friend, hearing of the
011 the » * l his entailed, sympathised with him
Plied-‘>Th oE expensive doctor's staff. He re-
drank o i, ~^ a 8 not lost, you know, because I
lasted ’’ t?*' was l® ft - 80 that It would Dot be
sltosß+V conversion to Christianity cannot
Wther expel the “mo.”
an young M.P., and he had invited
B hburha« ia * friend dowu to his newly-reuted
rDan residence. “Why, this is capital, old
fellow,” said the guest, who had just been shown
over the place. “ When you’ve blasted out
enough rock to make a few flower beds at the
back, sunk another well, and had a couple of
decent-sized trees planted in front here, I nardly
know where there is a place I’d sooner live in.”
.. yea, „ Ba i d th ® bloated tenant, “it’s a neat crib, is
rtnot? The tram, there, quite handy for the
House (I speak to-night, that reminds me), and
then there 8 the splendid air — 99 “Are there nice
pe ,j P J? about here ?—but there are, of course,”
said the friend. “ CharmiDg,” returned the iegis-
laiive host, “ charming,—in faet, it was only the
other day—dear me! who can this boy be?’ The
boy unlatched the gate, and kicking hts way down
the 15ft. of tiled pathway, confronted the gentle-
man, “ Are you the boa 9 ?” he asked, at once fix-
ing the Member wilh his glittering eye. ‘’ I am,
my boy,” he replied, with a hollow affectation of
joviality. “Well, then,” said the youth, “my
master and misus next door ’as sent me in to say
as kindly let ’em kno w 1 f yer agoin’ to bile e abbage
with soda agin to-morrow, ’cause, if so. they in-
tends to take a holiday.” As the D.T. remarked
" The hon. member for Buagiebung was hardly
himself ” that night.
The following has turned up so often in
,?^^ x ? haDges * that affcer we have read ifc 50,000 or
00,000 times more, we will probably begin to get
a trifle interestedJ. T. Norris, of Ohio, the
detective does a trick, we are told, that ‘ probably
no other man in the world can imitate.’ He takes
a silver coin, usually a dollar, and places it on his
tongue between bis teeth. With his tongue he
strikes it against his teeth with the sound of a
telegraph instrument, the opening and closing of
the circuit being exactly imitated. Norris used
to be an operator, and by means of the coin can
telegraph words so distinctly that any telegrapher
can easily read the message. In this manner he
telegraphed 50 words a minute.—[The last sen-
tence contains a palpable lie, but no matter, avc
read the Noozn occasionally, and can stand it.']
Mr. Kon-is can also stand up before a telephone
and in this novel manner telegraph with his eye-
lids. The dots and dashes of the telegraphic
alphabet he indicates by more or less rapid open-
ing and shutting of the eyelids. In this manner
he can converse with an exoert without uttering
a sound.” Now that Mr. Norris has had his say,
however, we may observe that there are
three score men all over Australia who
can do the same thing—in fact, anyone with a good
ear for “ time” can learn the dollar trick in three
months, es it merely consists In distinguishing the
length of time occupied by the clicks. For in-
stance, the letter A n the Morse code consists of a
dot and a dash. This can be sounded on aDy musi-
cal instrument by playing a quaver and a crotchet,
and so on through the rest of the alphabet. We
have seen two Sydney men, not detectives either,
do a little item not mentioned[ia Norris’ repertoire.
Smith, a telegraphic expert, sat down to play
euchre with Jones, and careiully lost every gams,
until Brown, another lightning-jerker, came in,
and being a “mutual” friend, sat down near-
Jones to watch the play. After that Smith swept
the pool every time. Brown, having seen Jones*
hand, placed nis toes on Smith's foot, underneath
the table, and by a series of long and short pres»
sures telegraohed Jones’ords to Smith in such a
way as to dtfy detection. In this line we haven’t
much to learn from Ohio* that’s certain.
sss Wolfe's Schnapps
has no equal.
Insist upon having the genuine Schnapps
which bears the name “ Wom b's Schnapps ” on
the label.


A Tragic End.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As in her virtuous couch she’d lain,
The victim had been madly slain
By him, with jealousy inflamed,
Who, ere he proved, had harshly blamed.
Naught could appease his bitter rage,
Nor could her cries his grief assuage;
She now had learned, alasl too late,
’Tis but a step from love to hate.
The green-eyed monster blinked his eye,
Talked loudly of her perfidy;
Responsive to the monster’s Call,
He Immolated life and all.
When gazing on his fearful Work—
Her fissured breast, the bloody dirk—
What tortures did his heart-strings rack,
What would he give to bring her back ?
♦ ♦ , ♦ ♦
See now upon that awful Stoat
He stands, the dupe of his own rage,
Grazed at by all that motley Crowd-
Some bow their heads, some curse aloud.
The worn-out murderer longs for rest,
His head is bent upon his breast;
No mercenary coward he—
He killed her all tor jealousy.
The gods looked miitely from above,
With less of anger than of love;
They saw with other eyes, and so
Judged not like those who howled below.
Beside the drop a figure stands,
Grasping the rope between his hands,
Another, with an aspect grave,
Is seen just then his hand to Wave.
The rope is pulled, and all is o’er,
With heavy thud upon the floor,
’Mid shouts and gibes and loud cat-calls,
The act concludes— the drop scene palls.
HENRY O'DONNELL.
Adelaide.
The Bull "Dog at the Gate.
Ffe the hand of Time had scattered on these locks
the snows of years, . ,
When our life was merry, laughter hidden even in
its tears, *
I adored a gold-haired maiden, and each night I
For her coming, ■while the hull dog watched me
through the garden gate.
In one hand I carried carefully a bouquet, for
Jn the hull dog) an entioing piece of
But reciprocated my advances, stern as
But growled what might have been his thanks,
and guarded still the gate.
And so, In after years, I fbund in Life’s more
troublous toil, . ~ ~ , „ .
As he's striving to attain to Fortunes corn and
wine and oil s ...
From the politician, soldier, lawyer, author, artist,
Still stands to guard. Fame’s lautels—’tts the bull-
dog at the gate,
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS.
Palace Emporium,
Haymarket only.
SPONGE'S ENAMELLED MINCERS.
No. 1, 69. 6d.; 3,105; 3,135. 6d.
We make it our particular study to excel in sucli
K °° d only Universal Providers in Australia.
rjiHE
Lessee
ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
George-street, Haymarket.
iee and Director ... ••• Mr. Prank Smith.
The Home of Minstrelsy and Mirth.
The Popular and Fashionable Resort.
MINSTELSY, OLIO, and FARCE.
Popular Prioea: Orchestra chairs, 8s; stalls, Is;
balcony, la* ..
acknowledged ability disengaged,
wltll Mr. Fnmk Smith.
fHHBATRB ROYAL.
i Under the direction of
Messrs. Williamson. Garner and MuBGROVi.
Lessee. Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Gen. L- Goodman.
Acting Manager ... Mr. H. H. Vincent.
SPECIAL DRAMATIC SEASON.
Under the patronage of hie Excellency the
Governor,
BARON CARINGTON, K.C.M.G., P.C.
The established favourite,
Mr. GEORGE RIGNOLD
Mr. GEORGE RIGNOLD,
and
Miss KATE BISHOP
Miss KATE BISHOP,
in
CALLED BACK. CALLED BACK.
Admission : Dress Circle. 55.; Stalls, 35.; Family
Circle, 2s. „ . ,
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway s
Hotel. Box plan open at the Theatre daily from
10 till 5. No Free List.
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. John Solomon
Business Manager. .. Mr. B. N. Jones.
BRILLIANT SUCCESS.
UNCLE TOM’S CABIN
achieved the most positive success ever recorded.
THE ONLY JOHN F. SHERIDAN and Miss
MAY LIVINGSTONE
received a perfect ovation.
Mr. DAMPIER and Miss KEMBLE created an
IMMENSE SENSATION.
Manager for Mr. Dampier ....FRED. GUNTHER.
OADBMY OF MUSIC.
Sole Proprietor and Manager. .F. E. Hiscocks.
ERY EVENING, UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE.
AN UNDENIABLE SUCCESS,
by
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
in conjunction with a specially-selected Dramatic
Company, in their first production of the moral
and religious (specially written) drama of
UNCLE TOM’S CABIN,
witnessed each night by crowded and most
enthusiastic audiences.
Lynch family bellringers
(Organised 1807)
Manager Harry Lynch.
WESTERN TOUR will include Liverpool, Pen-
rith, Lithgow. Bathurst, Blayney, Orange, Molong,
Wellington, Dubbo, Parkes, Forbes, Grenfell,
Young, Cootamundra, Yass, Cowra, Carcoar*
Mudgee, Adelong, Tumut, &o, &?. .
JAMES SMITH, ) Joint
H. B. BARNES,) Agents.
SATURDAY NEXT
Closing-out Auction
of
Model Farms,
IN FROM ONE TO FIVE ACRE BLOCKS.
UPSET PRICE, £l5 PER ACRE.
THEBE Farms comprise the remaining portions
of the property known as
CIIERT3EY on ERINA.
situate I*4 mile by road from Gosford, and having
deep water frontage to the Erina River.
Farmers, Poultry Breeders, Gardeners, and
others desiring to secure some of the finest agri-
cultural land in the colonies, will do well to secure
a portion of this property, of which there area
few Blocks left. The fact of the vendors having
decided to close out the unsold portion, will enable
Land Buyers to secure bargains.
This being the
LAST SPECIAL SALE TRIP
to be run, those wishing to inspect this coming
district should avail themselves of it.
Special steamer ALBATROSS has been char-
tered, and will convey intending purchasers on to
the ground.
Th.e Overland Route will also run ; but as only
a limited number can be carried by this line,
places must be booked by Thursday next.
Send for pamphlets and particulars from
BOYD and KING,
AUCTIONEERS,
SKJ PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Early application must be made for tickets, a a
this is the Last Sale Trip to the MODEL F ARMS
T
|0 ACTORS, ACTRESSES, MANAGERS, &c.
THE THEATRICAL NEWSPAPER
. BUREAU.
All the chief London Theatrical Papers on sale,
including “ Stage,” “Theatre,” “Topical Times,”
“ Dramatic Review,” “ Bat,” &c,, at moderate
prices. Postage free to any address in Australia.
Write to Manager,
10 IMPERIAL CHAMBERS,
Bank Place, Collins-street, Melbourne.
FOLEY’S SYDNIY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET,
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &c. For
terms, &e„ apply to
H. M. CANSDELL,
Manager and Instructor.
ICTORIA RACING CLUB.
CHAMPION MEETING, 1866.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 37th.
Thursday, march 4th.
SATURDAY, MARCH 6th.
HOLIDAY EXCURSION FARES.
This will be the MOST IMPORTANT MEETING
ever yet held on the Fleinington Course. The
Entries are larger than ever.
H. BYRON MOORE,
Sec. Y.R.C.
Kg" THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED',
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT era
fixed deposits for 13 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
Nervous and debilitated sufferers.
—A medical treatise, showing how you may
be cured without consulting a medical man. With
valuable recipes for purifying the blood, removing
skin diseases, urinal affections, indigestion. &c.,
&c. Sent post free, for six penny stamps. Address
Medico, P. 0., Box 766, Sydney.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, February 16 1810.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are Invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to acoept
the lowest or any tender.
Katina of Work! and Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders can he
received [at
this office.
Additions to Post and Telegraph
Office, Botirke
Additions to Poet and Telegraph
Office, Sutton Forest
Station Buildings at Syde and
Eastwood, on the Homebusb
to Waratah Railway
Carting broken Blue Metal for
Roads Department until De-
cember 30,188 C
Tuesday,
February 23,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Rigging-House, Sail
Loft, &c,, Garden Island
Additions, &c , Post and Tele-
graph Office, Grafton
Repairs, PaintiDg, &c , Cape St.
George Lighthouse
Bridge over Bredbo River, road
Goulburn to Cooma
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Bowral
Supply of Harwood, Colonial
Pine, Oregon, Baltic, &0.,
Hunter River district, during
1886
Tuesday,
Maroh 3,
at 11 o’clock.
Excavation of a New Entrance
for Yanko Creek
SupDly of Suction Pipe, Hunter
River District Water Supply
Erection of Custom-house, Wil-
cannia
Additions to Sergeant’s Quart-
ers, Policeßarrackg^Qrafton^
Erection of Shed and Widening
Approach, South Woodburn
Wharf, Richmond River
Snpply and Erection of Barbed-
wire Fencing at Prospect
Reservoir .
Erection of Caretakers Cot-
tages at the Reservoirs, Hunt-
er River district Water Supply
Tuesday,
March 9,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
March 16,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday.
M«rch 33,
at 11 o’clock.
JACOB GARRARD.
jjlOR SALE BY THE UNDERSIGNED.
Japanese green blind 3, an sizes.
JAVA KAPOK, in small bales.
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS, all descriptions.
AMERICAN CII AIRS of every description.
SILVER PLATED BEDSTEADS, all sizes.
BRASS BEDSTEADS and COT 3, all sizes.
COTTON FLOCK, in bales, cheap.
WOOLLEN FLOCK, in bales.
CURLED HORSEHAIR and FEATHERS.
CEYLON FIBRE and NEW ZEALAND FLAX.
TOILET GLASSES, in assorted cases.
WOVE WIRE BPBING MATTRESSES.
FURNITURE FRAMES.
HAIR SEATING 3, VELVET 3 and TAPESTRTEq
UPHOLSTERERS’ TRIMMINGS.
IRON BEDSTEADS, very cheap.
MATTRESSES, PALLIASSE?, BOLSTERS, and
PILLOWS. UQ
J. LAWLER, 608, GEORGE STREET,
Factory—No. 1,3,5, Union-lane. Telephone No. 68
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
TO CONTRACTORS AND OTHERS.
THE Government of Western Australia i 3 pre.
pared to receive Tenders up to noon of
Thursday, Ist April, 1886, for the following works
Erection of a line of Telegraph—from Roebourne,
North West Coast, to Derby, Kimberley—
with iron poles. Distance, about 500 miles.
Specification may be seen on application at the
Office of the Commissioner of Works, Sydney,
New South Wales.
J. ARTHUR WRIGHT,
Director of Public Works and Commissioner
of Railways.
Department of Public Works,
Perth, Western Australia,
3rd February, 1886.
TO THE MEMBERS OF THE AUSTRALIAN
MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
Ladies and gentlemen,—i respectfully
Solicit your Votes and Interest as a Director
of your Society.
FREDK. LEE.
DEBILITATED MEN, and all suffering from
nervous exhaustion, premature decay, etc.,
etc., fully and permanently cured by the use ox
the medicines of the London Medical Company.
For many years those suffering from nervous de-
bility, shattered and debilitated constitutions, loss
of manhood, premature decay, and all the ills aris-
ing from early indiscretions, over indulgences,
over brain work, etc., etc., have sought in vain for
some remedy which would restore them to that
full vigour and perfect manhood which they have
been deprived of. Year after year they have
plaeed themselves under the care of some so-caliea
specialist, or some great remedy Gompany, ana
after months of their treatment, involving pounds
of expense, they awake to the sad but true fact
that they are not only no better in health, but tnat
perhaps years of hard earned savings have been
actually thrown away. For the last year or more
still another class of advertisers have come into
the field. Men who claim that they will send pre-
scriptions free to the afflicted public. But what
does the patient receive on sending ? Certainly a
prescription, but one that nobody but the adver-
tiser himself can fill, and for doing which he wants
so much money as the case may be. And thisi «
his prescription free. Some five years ago several
leading medical men in London knowing tne
impositions suffered by this class of patients, ana
understanding the reluctance always felt by tnew
for consulting regular practitioners, determ:men
to form a company and obtain some certain anu
safe cure which they could place before the puo-
lic. With this object in view, three years were
spent in the most careful study, and treatment m
all classes of these diseases all over Europe, ana
from tins vast experience they are now enabled w
give to the world, a medicine which is simply cer
tain in its effects, and will in every ease effect a
safe, sure, and speedy cure. For two years
company has been before the public in Lonaou.
and on the continent, and to-day they have many
thousand letters in which the writers state that m
their case a permanent cure has been effected, i
the United States where the company has ono
been established for a year, the same vronderi
success has been met with, and the directors m
certain that in coming before the many tbousan
of aiflieted in Australia, the same will be the ca ,
here. The medicine is packed in caskets, and p .
up in different grades and forms, to mee L hfl '
classes of cases, each casket containing two moniu
treatment (and under this time no case can be P
manently cured by any medicine in the wor •
Caskets are sent to patients free of charge on r
ceipt of prioe, which is JB2, securely sealed tr
observation, with full directions as to treatme.
and in every case with the distinct understand!
that where a permanent benefit is not derived
money will be cheerfully refunded. In order
patients are requested to give a full and disu
description of all their symptoms, so that we
be sure of sending the proper remedy. All IMJ*
are sacredly confideritial, and all orders should
sent by Post Office Order, registered letter,
bank draft, ad iressed to
MANAGER LONDON MEDICAL COMPANY.
Excelsior Chambers,
13 Eli/.abeth-street,
Melbourne,


SUNDRY SHOWS.
ROTAI —" Called Back "... P* 8
Gaiety Theatre—* 1 Uncle Tom s Cabin »
alham bra— Miustrelsy, Olio, and Fares.. ... ..
ACADEMY OE Music.—" Uncle Tom s Cabin „
The version of “ Called Back ” at the
Svdney Theatre Koval disagrees in so many
particulars with the story itseic as to be best en-
Fffvffd by those—if any such there be-who’venot
iead the latter. The general outline of the plot is
there, but many of the details are wanting,'or
their places supplied by others. We are far from
saying that stage requirements do not demanu
changes. There they are, at all events,
whether they’re wanted or not, and the reader
the dramaticsituations. novelstruc-
ture, and felicitous language of the story, is by no
means pleased to observe the changes made in all.
On the stage the Blind Vincent Vaughan
and the buxom Pauline March are lovers long
before the murdor. This is the first serious fafimg
nut between the two versions. It may be neces-
sarvand it mayn’t. W hether it is or not, it makes
assassination a poor affair compared
with the literary one. Young March (Mr. Vincent)
is put cosily out of the way by the deft
tion of Macari’s knife under his fifth rib. It was
ail the lad was fit for, and his decease evoked
neither surprise nor sorrow. You could see at a
glance that he was in everybody s way, and that
Mfe with such a youth having the run of the house
must end either in a felon’s cell or suimdo s grave.
Had Macari (Mr. Rignold) stopped here he would
have been deserving of praise as a public Benefac-
tnr—one who loved his kind sufficiently to relieve
it from the presence of a highly-objectionable
voung man. But the unfortunate profession-
that of a Russian spy—he had chosen, combined
with the fact of his love for Pauline, induced him
to wallow in dissimulation and crime. It is an
odd psychological circumstance that when a man
murders another it is often for the purpose of
marrying that other’s sister. But this method of
courtship is open to serious objections. If a law
could be introduced which allowed a person to
uut out of the world without unnecessary violence
the woman whose daughter he was about to marry
we believe that weddings would be m . uch “°*, e
common, and human happiness largely increased.
* * *
Still, even under the most favourable
circumstances, it Is probable that Macari would be
a scoundrel. You see he’s cut out tor one from
the first moment of his appearance. He is a
Russian spy, but his looks suggest that the details
of the Italian organ-grinding business are not
unknown to him—that he is just the sort of person
who would entice young Savoyards to London
and feast them sumptuously on stirrup- oil. He is
a hardened, scandalous villain whom the occupants
of the gallery receive with undisguised vindic-
tiveness. When struggling virtue at last comes to
the surface, and Macari meets a well-deserved
fate, expressions of ferocious satisfaction are
heard on all sides. Whether he was the Macari
that poor Conway conceived is quite another
thing. All we are justified in saying is that Mr.
Rignold has adopted a particular type of ruffian
and carries his idea consistently through to the
end ’ * * *
But his voice is unmelodious and occa-
sionally husky. While blind he was madly in love.
Whether his passion kept up to the same pitch
when his eyes were opened, it would be difficult to
say. Judged by appearances, Dr. Ceneri (Mr.
Meade) was about the last person one would sus-
peot of having the cause of Italy at heart. It was
when dying in Siberia that he appeared to best
advantage. The horrors of Asiatic exile, helped
out with the lash, had no effect on the audience.
This is not to he wondered at considering that
every little village in N.S. Wales has its whipping
Dost. Thuksto our governors, it would require
more than a cat-o’-nine-taiis to move a Sydney
crowd to commiseration. Miss Harwood was a
seductive Mary Vaughan whose little tenderness
towards Surgeon Kenyon cast a deep gloom over
several groups of young men in the gallery. Miss
Langueville was the conspirators landlady. The
first look at her showed why her lodgers were con-
spirators. They couldn’t be anything else.
* * *
It was Miss Bishop’s first Sydney appear-
ance, and she has no cause to complain of her
reception. She earned it. She has advantages
natural and acquired. Voice, figure, and face are
in her favour. Being winsome, buxom, and mad,
her success was assured. Long before she re-
covered her senses, half the married men in the
pit looked as if she was the only woman they
ever loved-in spite of her eccentricity-while
their wives glared at her with pitiless cruelty.
But it is not easy to see in her one capable of a
grande passion. Her fiancS Vaughan (Mr. Darley)
met the demand of the case so far as height and
figure are concerned.
* • * »
Mr. Dampier and company are playing
at the Sydney Gaiety Theatre a five-act comedy
which he calls “Uncle Toms Cabin. It is
not the story of American slave life, as told by
Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe, though in many of
its situations it is similar. The names of the lead-
ing characters —in fact, of all the characters are
the same as those specified in the story, but the
characters are different. The plot, with one or
two exceotions, is the same. The exceptions are
notably the absence of Cassy (Legree s mistress),
who, in the orthodox presentment of the work,
figures rather prominently. Topsy s songs and
dances are also conspicuous by their absence, and
the cotton-field scene, in which Legree weighs the
baskets, is also unpresented. Little Rva does not
sing the usual, “ Shall poor Uncle Tom be free,
nor is Legree disposed of in the fashion to which
we have been used. Variety is always charming,
and originality is delightful. Lovers of the legi-
timate may now see two * Uncle Tom s Cabins
in this city. Bach differs greatly from the other,
and both differ very much from Mrs. Stowes
story. # *
Sheridan makes the most o,f the part of
Marks, and has adhered closely to the letter of the
text in the matter of make-up. He forced himself
into the various situations, and gained the good-
will of the audience from the jump. He had a
chronic thirst on him, and his liberality when
drinking with his friends was a conspicuous
feature in the performance. He drank often, yet
never paid. He professed great anxiety to be
allowed 10 shout occasionally, but was more ready
to claim the privilege “next time, next time,
then," than to part on that present ocoasion.
Sheridan is a humorist, and his make-up as Marks
was a proof that he had exercised all his powers of
funning in costuming his character. He was a
lawyer, a sample of the pettifogging 1 , miserable
animal who, fo* a pint of beer, would swear either
way, and subsequently both, if necessary. He did
not appear the kind of lawyer from whom a
decant barrister would take a
thing about him was his coat-tail,, and the most
expansive his cheeks# He is the most entertain-
ing item iu the bid, and those who have seen
Sheridan in his other entertainment should see
him in this character. .
* * *
Miss Kemble was distressingly natural as
the wife ot George Harris, the fugitive slave,.and
throughout made the most of her part. Perhaps
her most attractive performance is crossing the
“ ice-path of peril,” and thus escaping, for a time,
the persecutions of Legreo and his kind y lol-
lowing. There is a Biondinesaue grace in the
Way she skips over the soating ice-fioes, whion
leads tip to the supposition that, as a ground and
ioffy tumbler, she would have been a success.
We expected to see her do a tumble when cross-
ing the river—the whole concern looked so very
shaky—hut she got over without accident. And
it she had fallen, the stage-oirpenter was on
the underground regions with’,a hammock, so she
would not have been hurt. She carries her child
with her all the time, and though a considerable
period elapses between the time she leaves home
and goes on the “wallaby” to Canada, and the
eventuation of the climax, she does not ap-
parently grow weary, nor does the youthful
Harris dirty his clothes to any noticeable extent.
* ■ *
The Topsy of May Livingstone differs
from any other Topsy we have seen. In her song
and dance, “ Wait till I get my silver slippers, she
leaves out the dance, and if she left out the song
also the item would be perfect. Miss Livingstone
is a young lady blessed with a! large amount of
self-control. In the last act she comes rushing on
to the soene at the moment when Uncle Tom is
lying dead, and liberates Eliza, scarcely bestowing
a glance on the corpse of the faithful old negro,
and when she shoots Tom Loker on board La
Belle Riviere ” she hops over the bleeding carcase
of the slave-dealer with an agility which would
present greater attractions on a tennis-lawn than
in a theatre.
* * *
Mr. Dampier represented George Harris
and was amateurish and heavy throughout the
piece. He played all along as if he was dissatisfied
with the situation, and was unreal and vaguely
conscious of his representative’s feelings, in the
last act he escapes to Canada by crossing a small
footbridge, leaving his boy on the American side.
There was no reason why he should have Jett the
boy, but he did so probably to afford Phineas
Fletcher (Harry Leston) a chance of rescuing him
from the hands of Marks by throwing the latter
gentleman over the cliffs into the •* boiling caul-
dron below.” He subsequently thins out the com-
bination by shooting Legree dead and wounding
Dan. Haley (Holloway), after which, folding his
faithful wife to his bosom, he waves his hand to
the corpses; while Phineas, from the opposite
bank of the river, waves the child of George and
Eliza as a trophy of victory. Where Phineas came
from was somewhat of a puzzle—he did not gam the
cliffs in view of the audience, but, bounding up
like a Jack in the Box at the opportune movement,
seized the child and pitched Marks into the atmos-
phere just in time to avert a catastrophe.
* * *
Uncle Tom was personified by 0. H. Lewis
(not the Lewis who originally played the character
with the Georgia Minstrels), and he presented the
character of the saintly nigger in such a manner
as not to unduly advance himself to the damage
of tee other characters in the piece.
• MS
Miss Hetty Sherwood’s Eva was an even
and interesting character, and the minor charac-
ters were generally well represented.
* * * m
“ A 1 at Lloyds ” did not have a very long
run at the Sydney Opera House, giving place on
Thursday to the “Ticket of Leave Mao,” which is to
be succeeded by Dion Boucicault’s “ Janet Pride,’
on Saturday, the 20th. It is probable that pros-
pects at this Theatre will become more joyous
with the presentation of this piece.
* * * *
Uncle Tom continues also to hold his nightly
lev<se at the Sydney Academy, and more people go
to seB him than resort to their obliging uncle of
the three gilded spheres after a devastating Derby
or a “ multy ” Metrop., and it goes without say-
ing that i hey derive infinitely more pleasure from
the visit. It is astonishing that a man can posi-
tively gush with goodness, as Uncle Tom does,
although only for two or three hours at a time,
and on the stage. We believe that Mr. Bent is a
most estimable man in private life, but with any-
one else in the character we should view the per-
formance with “ soorprise bordthering upon con-
sternation,” well knowing that a distressing re-
action must follow after such a wholesale
exhibition of high-pressure piety. If a man strolls
around with a holy thumb ia a well-worn S.P.G.
Bible for a few hours, a fall from grace usually
ensues which places four aces and a bower in the
apostle’s sleeve and sixteen whiskies in his little
tum-tum, for man on this sinful earth can rarely
attain more than an average amount of goodness.
You never saw a boy coming home from Sunday-
school who had not a keen eye to his neighbour’s
orchard, nor a girl returning from a Dorcas meet-
ing who did not look up to no end of larx, and it is
a well-established fact that the louder a “ Ranter ”
parson prays on the Wednesday night the less
sugar does his sand contain for the remainder of
the week. If we had to play Uncle Tom for even
one night in succession, someone's hen-rocst or
apple-yard would inevitably [And, probably,
does now, but this is not criticism.—Ed. B.] But,
as we have already remarked, Mr. Bent is not that
kind of man. We are told that his piety, like red
hair and ugliness, goes right to the bone.
* * *
Eliza manages the escape scene excru-
ciatingly well, imitating the motion which the
swaying ice would engender, while ever and anon
she rends the welkin with that little agonised
shriek which invariably exudes from lovely woman
when her life is immediately endangered, or she
sees a cockroach. Topsy earns piles of applause,
although all her witticisms are fine, old-crusted
conceits that have been in the wood and bottle
since the comet year. It is a case of semper eadem
with Miss Wiseman and the gags she uses. They
are always fresh and piquant, and she is that way
herself only more so.
* * *
It is not likely that the management will
imitate Legree and kill “Uncle Tom” for some
time to come. „ „ „
# # w *
As a rule, theatrical managers know how
to take care of themselves, but an incident which
occurred at Launceston (Tas.), the other day goes
to show that all forerunners of great men are not
up to ways that are dark. Mr. W. H. Manning
(acting business manager for Mr. W. J. Holloway),
who is making arrangements for opening the
newly-erected Academy of Music at Launceston
had occasion to leave home in search of an hotel.
Asking the nearest way, the person he addressed
offered to show him the road, and the two arrived
in due course. Mr. Manning “shouted,’ and
handing the barmaid half-a-sovereign, left for a
moment to speak to the landlord, who was sitting 1
in the parlour. On his return, he ashed for his
change, and was astounded to learn that his kind
friend had offered to take care of it for him, and
that the barmaid had paid it over. Of course, the
obliging guide had mizzled, and as no ad. has, yet
appeared in the “ missing friends ” column of the
local print, it may be taken for granted that both
parties have decided to wait until they meet in
the sweet by and t ye ” for an explanation of the
“mistake.” He was a stranger and they took
him in.
* * *
Mr. Alfred Cellier, who makes his first
appearance in an Australian orchestra on the 20th
(as conductor for “Mikado” at the Melbourne
Royal), has a long standing acquaintance with S'r
Arthur Sullivan’s musical methods. Mr. Cellier,
unless we are very much mistaken, wielded the
baton (dear old phrase!) at the Opera Comique
when the “Sorcerer” was originally produced.
* * * *
Minnie Palmer (“ My Sweetheart ”)* the
ever-smiling American artiste, is certainly coming
to Australia, although dates have not yet been
absolutely fixed. She still seems determined to
stick to “ My Sweetheart,” the play which was the
means of her first success. Minnie’s personal
charms are of a fascinating order, and she has a
gushingly joyous, iight-hearted, impulsive way
with her that has managed to earn a treasury of
wealth for herself and a small fortune for her
manager. Her diamonds are so many and valuable
that it is alleged a Nordenfeldt gun is always
qonpealed somewhere in the theatre for her pro-
tection.
« # * *
George Darrell must look to his laurels.
From the Melbourne Hebald we glean that Mr.
Locke, a member of the “ Barcelona Amateur
Dramatic Club ” has written something which
“clearly showed that in Melbourne may yet be
found a dramatist who can take rank with Messrs
Sims, Wills, Harman, &c.” Mr. Locke's play has
only been produced at a private performance as
yet, but the Herald correspondent fills us with a
mad longing to see “ Kate O’Shane” for ourselves
and judge of its merits. Who Harman is the Lord
only knows; but Sims and Wills are sufficiently
good test horses for any aspiring two-year-old
author. They are both well-tried performers,
who, in dramatic calibre, are as wide apart as the
Poles. If Mr. Locke can tako rank with each of
’em (leaving the mysterious Harman out of the
question), why, then George Darrell, as the Aus-
tralian dramatist, is completely annihilated. We
can imagine George turning out something equal
to “Romany Rye,” but we can't imagine nim
soaring to the height of “Charles 1.,” or “Jane
Shore ’’—except in his dreams.
CORRESPONDENCE
[Correspondent* who Qive neither name nor nom-de-
plums cannot expect to have their com-
municationi noticed.!
“C.C.”: (1) You can make him pay. (2)
What’s the use of advertising on a mirror placed
in a public street or anywhere else? Do you
think any man or woman notices what’s on a
mirror so long as he or she can look at the reflec-
tion therein of his or her own face ?—“ J. Robin-
son” (Newcastle): We have utilised your infor-
mation “Subscriber”: We notice the matter
elsewhere. You mention that the Soudan busi-
ness “ stinks in your ears ” Well, hold your nose
and you’ll hear no more of it—“ Walter Good-
win”: Received “J.W.” (Junee): (1) Your girl
looks very thin in the photo—so meagre
that if you lifted her up to kiss her you’d think
you were picking a bone. (2) No —“A True
Briton You are quite welcome to call Mr. Adye
Douglas a “ crank ” because he doesn’t agree with
you—a circumstance which, after reading your
abusive and witless letter, we are inclined to con-
sider one of the strongest evidences of his perfect
sanity. But you can’t explain away the fact that
Mr. D ouglas ioas then the Premier of Tasmania....
“Annie B.”: “If you would retain your beauty
and live long, never smile and never weep.” So
says the proverb. ...“Spondulix Wei), if we do
give you the name of a new Queensland town
occasionally you ought to be satisfied without
wanting the town itself... .“D.S.M D.”: Cannot
now find figures relating to the matter—“ Sub-
scriber”: The “little boy at Mudgee who wrote a
nice letter to his good grandmother in England
about our troops in the Soudan,” should be kept
in a cool place until he gets better—“ Swankey
The word is not long-sleever at all. It is properly
Zcuon-sleever— a name given to dippers of oolonial
beer because some of the early bishops of
New South Wales showed an intense appreciation
of the local brew in this wholesale form
“Index”: The area of Victoria is 87,884, of New
South Wales 309,175 square miles. In 1884 Victoria
had an average of 11 persons to the square mile,
New South Wales of only 3. In Western Australia
the population is only a little over 3 to each 100
square miles....“ Bachelor ”: It is a popular error
to suppose that there are more females than males
in Tasmania; the proportion is 88 of the former to
100 of the latter. In N.S.W. the numbers are 80
females to 100 ma1e3....“ Free Trade”: It is true
that in 1884 New South Wales gained 380 more
immigrants than Victoria in the same year, but
you must remember that 7598 immigrants to this
colony were brought out at the public ex-
pense.... “ 8.0. U.”: Declined with thanks....
“F. C. Sheehan”: Impossible to print your letter
anent a criticism of your poem in the Melbourne
Herald, especially as you say: “ The only point
which your critic raises worthy of argument at
all is my use of the word ‘ see ’ for hear in re-
ference to the laughter of the children. Is he not
aware that a person can be seen laughing—that is,
of course, as far as the action of the face is con-
cerned without reference to sound ? Ordinarily*
of course, it is more correot to say, * I heard them
laugh,’ but in this instance I wished to eonvey the
idea that the ‘ old stranger ’ was actually witness
of the scene.” This is right enough, but referring
to your lines you will notice that the word “ see "
was used with reference to loud laughter, thus
clearly indicating that he saw the sound. Your
abuse of the supposed writer is altogether foreign
to the issue, and, as you are vilifying the wrong
man, publication would not achieve your object...
“ J. W. Broughton” : The verses are graceful, but
there is no internal evidence of originality. There
are no buttercups in Australia—“F.T.” (New-
castle): Glad to hear from you....“Sappho’V
You say you can write better poetry than any
that has ever appeared in The Bulletin. Well,
why don’t you ?...“ J. R. Wrixon ”: It is of no use,
our comps, won’t set up your poem. They say
they might as well be on the Jernil if they have
to work on stuff like that ..“B.". (Sydney):
Rather too great a pressure of agony to the square
inch for ordinary purposes, but may perhaps use...
‘ A. S. Mdi”: He is not a registered practitioner,
therefore his assumption of the title leads to strong
suspicion of his bona Mes. Should advise you to
keep clear. Sydney is over-run with death-deal-
ing, black-mailing quacks...." E. Mace”: One
great—and perhaps the only—benefit to be derived
from joining an Orange Lodge is that when the
maddening whirl of an election time comes on you
don’t have to sit up half the night worrying the
hide off your soul to know which is the better man
to vote for. The Grand Master and his gang in-
vestigate the candidate’s character, and then
send round the “straight” tip to run 0n....
“TH.”: We forget the date. We hope Mr.
Farrell will yet publish his verses in book-form.
..“ J..8.M.” (Narracoorte, S.A): Yes; he hes
been here all the time... “C.R.”: You might
as well enquire how it is that so abnormal
a percentage of women are just now engaged in
poisoning men.. .“Charles Owen”: Nonsense.
Fifty years hence Parkes’ diary may be accepted
as a true chronicle of events and a faithful ex-
position of the thoughts, actions, motives, and
intrigues of the politicians of to-day. That is how
history is made. Fancy Parkes in judgment upon
the character of other men—particularly hia poli-
tical opponents 1.... “ J. M.”: Who in thunder was
mad enough to let you loose without a collar ? You
might send future scrawls to the Record, or the
Orange rag. .“Sam Griffith”: Will give you space
next week “Intermittent Supply”: We can't
call a man “ an Almighty thief aud scoundrel,”
although, as you say, he is only an alderman. Even
a C.M.G. can flourish a very big writ....*'Jaa-kass ”
(Melb.): Thanks.
It is admitted that no purer spirit is placed
before the public than Wolfe's Sqhnafes, Be
sure you obtain Wolfe’s.
Oriental Gold
Great Sacrifice!
Immense Reduction!
TUB
ORIENTAL GOLD GO.
BEG to draw attention to the REDUCED
PRICES of their
Magiikit Miry!
OBSERVE PRICE LIST BELOW.
Ladies’ Handsome Orlenta Gold Alberts, 10s, 158.
17s 6d, and 20s each
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 4s and 5s per pair
Ladies’ Choice Necklets, 5s each
Ladies’ Choice Necklets, best' American Plate, 20s
each
Ladies’ Elegant Bangles, 4s, 6s, and 10s per pair
Choice Lockets, 5s each
Handsome Gem Rings, 4s and 8s 6d each
Wedding and Keeper Rings, in Solid Gold, 7a fld
each
Ladies’ Handsome Lockets, 10s each
Ladies’ Elegant Crosses, 4s, ss, and 6s each
Ladies’ Brooch and Earring Sets, from 5s to 16s
Thimbles, warranted Sterling Silver, 3s 6d each
Gents’ 0. G. Watches, Hunting, Open-Faced
Crystal Glass, and patent Keyless, 30s each,
warranted 3 years
Ladies’ (same as above.)
13T These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; - the
movements are of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses .. .. ** .. 14 0 0
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
jewelled, and compensation balance .. 15 0 0
Rotherham’s celebrated English Patent
Levers .. . .. .. £4 10 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance .. £5 0 0
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses.. .. £2 15 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance.. .. £4 15 0
A written warrantry for three years’ acourate
performance is forwarded with each watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph, £5 0
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
grade £6 0 0
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
full jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket .. £8 10 0
We import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected—about 35 per cent*
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £8
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watohes would not
cost less than £8 to £lO.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 46
each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Rings, half round buckle
flat broad buckle, engraved, good luck rings
2s 6d each.
Gent’s richly chased engraved and plain Solitaire
and Link Suites, 3s, 4s, ss, and 6s fid per set.
Same as above, only half sets, Is Bd, 2s, and 3s pet
set.
Best American Patent Spring Solitaire Suited;
5s per set.
Gent's elegant Seals, 4s each.
Gent’s Elegant Compasses, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alberts, 6s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold handsome Scarf Pins, IS;
fid, 2s, 2s fid, 3s, 3s fid, 4s, 4s fid, ss, and 5s fid eao
Very best American Pencil Cases, 2s 6d each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Match Boxes, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Sovereign Purses, 4s each.
Richly engraved Bracelets, 6s each.
Handsome Bracelets, beautifully jewelled, Bs, 10#,-
13s, and 14s each.
Broooches, Brooches, Brooches, Is fid, 2s, 2s 01, 36,
3s fid, 4s, 4s fid, ss, 5s fid, 6s, fis fid, 78, 7s fid, Bs, 8s
fid, 9s, 9s 6d, and 10s each.
PLEASE NOTH.
All goods will be sent post free, with the excep-
tion of the watches, orders for which must be ac-
companied with an extra amount of two and
pence to defray postage expenses. Send in #ouf
orders early, as the goods must be sold, and no one
should miss this chance of procuring the beautifu 1
gems at less than cost price.
Noth thb Address ;
The Oriental Gold Co.,
474 Seorge Street,
OPPOSITE THE MARKETS*


BRIEF MENTION.
Germany wants some more—Samoa.
Dr. Creed, M.L.C., of Sydney, says that
the feminine of Devil is grass-widow.
The Parramatta Fekguson has a 1 ways
been a staunch and consistent supporter of sir
Henry Parkes. H ence its prosperity.
Repartee.— Lady, in dishabille (? disser-
bull) from balcony: “ You can leave two, baker.
Savage baker: “ So I will—next door.
At the Little Bethel Union.— “ Fine man,
Lord Carington. ain’t be?” said English Jack.
“Yes,” replied Scotch Jack— upstairs.
1 & 2. The two artists. 3. Rapture! 4. Disgust. 5. More rapture, 6. More disgust. 7. Repose. 8. Strategy. 9. Discovery. 10. Jubilation. 11. Revenge!
12. Assault. 13. Toby to the rercue. 14. Toby triumphant. 15. Retreat. 16 & 17. The end.
From a Sydney bankruptcy schedule,
A.D. 1887:—“ Causes of insolvency: Lord Caring-
ton.” N.B.—She would go to Government House.
Nathan Moses Lazarus is the name of one
of the Alderman elected for Queanbeyan. The
only other .1 ew in the aldormamc crowd is named
Michael Maloney.
In Sydney Domain. Swell pedestrian to
whip ol four-in band: “ Hullo, Chawles ~aw-come
into a fortune?” Chawles: "No; bringing out a
patent medicine.”
A Sydney weekly is about to blast its
readers with a new tale entitled, “No Gentleman.”
Wo presume the hero will be a man on the School
of Arts committee.
Lord Carington told the Sydney Lanoeahs
that a little “ chaff ” would do them no ham.
After seeing the parade on Saturday, we think he
must have meant their horses.
The Sydney Mail now comes out with a
green cover. The Bulletin is years younger
than the Hunter-street weekly and invariably
red. No wonder the old lady turns green.
A Gundagai man has capped the record by
producing some “Lin. s written onaStorm. He
should try next to write an epitaph on a ilash of
forked-lightning, or a soliloquy on a dose of small-
pox.
“ Well, and how did you like being a
Minister?” said Deabin when he met that exten-
sive cackler, Tom Slattery, in Melbourne. 1
liked the smell of it immensely,” was the some-
what gloomy reply.
Of 822 public houses in. Sydney and
metropolitan district the Inspector-General of
Police says that 629 carry on Sunoay-trading. And
yet when a man wants a drink on the Sabbath he
is sure to ft id the odd 193.
“ Well, hang it all, Dan. 1” blurted out an
applicant for a Postal appointment, “ you kuow
you—” when he was stopped. Tnen came the
rebuke of the century. ” Is it mo ye’re addrissin’,
sor, or is it the Minister ?’’
ACooktown publican refused to serve a
young man with a dunk on account of bis youth.
After the boy vaulted over the bar, and put the
landlord through in five minutes, the latter
admitted he was of age, and served him.
A Melbourne citizen, it is wired, has died
‘‘through inadvertently taking a dose of horse-
medicine, instead of rum.” There is qbviously a
mistake here. The newspaper man meant that
deceased took Melbourne rum instead of horse-
medicine.
The Sunday Times says:—“Three em-
ploys of the Globe and Sunday Times Com-
pany have been convicted of theft during the
past week.” This is the editor’s cunning little
way of letting the public know there is something
on the premises to steal.
Early caller in Newcastle, to female who
grudgingly opens the door: “ Can I see the aider-
man?’ Female: “No, you can’t.” E. C.: “Why
not, please ?” Female: “ ’Cause he s busy.” E C.:
“ May I enquire what he may be engaged upon at
this early hour ?” Females ‘‘He’s cleaning fi3*u”
Door.
In Woolloomooloo.—Lodger: ‘ I say milk-
man, I wish you’d leave my bill.” Milkman: “I
left your bill for uppards o’ 17 weeks sir; and as
you never took no notice, I stopped makln it out.
As you don’t pay nothin,’ you can’t expect to
have the milk and the bill too.”
Whenever “Old Jack” Robertsou, the
IST.B.W. Premier, speaks ia public, he “ thanks
God ” half a dozen times. When Dan. O’Connor,
the illoquent Postmaster-General, orates, he
" thanks God ” all the time. We are rather sick oi
the “ Thank God ” G overnment.
“ Come in and thry a drop of the oratur,
Ben O’Rourke; this is the furst toime I seen ye
sober for 15 years, and divil of a He about it I
“ Faix then I can’t come wid ye,” said O'Rourke.
“Why?” “ Bekase I’m the proopurty av the
Postmaster-General.” Makes off.
Dialogue (for Darling Point): “ You must
have been busy yesterday; it was understood in
town that your Excellency would see no one.”
"Quite true. It. took us the whole day to decide
about Chong Skongs special card of entree?”
“For which door, Lord Carington?” Goorool
“So you saw all the sights of Sydney, my
son,” said the fond mother to her son, who had
just returned to Hobnail Farm after a three days’
trip to the metropolis with his father. “ Yes
mother. First day we went and seen the museum •’
next day we went and seen Quong Tart. Then we
kim bark.”
As an example of the mastery of English
history acquired by Hindoo scholars in Govern-
ment schools a M adras pupil explains the “ Bill of
Rights” as an aot to “prevent a soldier from
visiting the married quarters.” Having served in
India we can honestly say that no law is so con-
stantly evaded.
The father and mother and all the family
have just entered the Ziolrgioal Gardens. “ Now.
boys and gals,” sayd pa, rubbing his hands— mr
he's as deep in it as the kids, mind youl— now,
boys and gals, which of ’em shall we go
first?’ “Qaong Tart, pleate daddy,'’ said me
baby but two; “comooD.”
It. is not often we hear of a corpse being
swindled, but such an event happened ou the»3ra
uit., on the railway line between flslcombe au“
fielding (N.Z ). A Maori woman got into the tram
at F. elding Put died before reaching her tartn >
destiistion. The guard, with commenoaoi
promptitude, at once collected her additional
215., at corpse rate.


a certain reverend gentleman of our ac-
.aintanco has, we see, gone off to his vicarage up
OP* h £sqo a year and no rent. When wo knew
JW* re ‘v. gentleman he appeared to entertain two
avfid beliefs. One was in the 39 articles, the
in the dictum that two oabbages never
ought to be more than lj^d.
ego that’s Clovelly, Sir John Robertson’s
is it ?” said a distinguished stranger to his
Mentor, peering through a gap in the crumbling
That Quarral Scene.
JOHN CASSIUS ROBERTSON: "BRUTUS, BAY NOT ME, I'LL NOT ENDURE IT; YOU FROGET YOURSELF TO HEDGE MEIN; I AM A SOLDIER I, OLDER IN PRACTICE,
ABLER THAN YOURSELF, TO MAKE CONDITION."
HENRY BRUTUS PARKES: "AWAY, SLIGHT MAN! MUST I STAND AND CROUCH UNDER YOUR TESTY HUMGUR? BY THE GODS, YOU SHALL DIGEST THE VENOM OF
YOU'RE SPLEEN THOUGH IT DO SPLIT YOU; FOR, FROM THIS DAY FORTH, I'LL USE YOU FOR MY MIRTH; YEA FOR MY IAUGHTER WHEN YOU ARE WASPISH!"
P&lipga. "i suppose the Etruscan terraces and
flowery landscapes are further back?” “In the
cack-yard, probably,” said the mentor, mystified.
«uw let’s go and see the Gap.”
The Wentworth Advocate says “ A
florae, the property of Mr. J. O'Neil, dropped dead
on Saturday last while in harness. ’ We knew the
news of Heydon’s resignation of the portfolio of
of Justice would cause some stir in
'’entworth, but we never dreamed it would kill a
flotso. What did it do, we wonder, at Yass ?
A man who was practising on the violin
near Moss Vale, N.S.W., was gored by a bull. He
was tossed so high that he waved his hand to the
man in the moon, and oame down eventually In a
district where his name was not on the electoral
roll. He lost his violin, and people in the vicinity
are proposing to present a testimonial to the bull.
A report is current in Sydney that when
the Progress Committee of a town in the Macleay
district wrote to Burdett Smith asking for a grant
of £3OO to beautify tho park, he replied saying
that it was unnecessary to spend the amount—he
would go and walk there occasionally. The
rumour is probably traceable to the admirers of
Mr. Smith’s opponent.
A man they called “Jack, the French-
man,” who arrived at Seymour (V.) one after-
noon, was found dead the next morning under a
tree. At the inquest it was discovered that he
had had two bottles of sodawater over-night.
When last seen alive ho was sitting under a tree in
a public-house yard, rubbing his stomach. No
wonder. Two bottles of colonial soda I
Postmaster-General O’Connor of N.B.W.
reports that females are unsuited for the Tele-
graph Department. He doesn’t say in what the
unsuitability consists. He doesn’t need to. The
system that put a female operator in possession of
the reasons that induced Miss A. to prolong her
stay in the country or Miss B. to run away with
the coaohman was sure to break down.
Do you know what caused that awful
summons to be taken out? It was this retort,
uttered, alas! within the hearing of the fair sex,
who had previously supposed the lashed one to be
a paladin; “ Yes! [with cutting emphasis] we have
both been soldiers—but with this difference: when
in the field I was engaging the enemy; when in
the field, you were looking after the jams.”
A tramp arrived at the Salvation Army
Barracks at Greta, N.S.W., at dinner time, and was
rogaied with a first-class “ tightener.” “ Ah,” ho
said, rising, when a pile-driver would not have
got any more down, “ I feel a different man now I”
Then picking up his swaa- he “shoved,” heedless
even of the hallelujah sisters who were shrilly
entreating him to take a header in the Fountain.
A Newcastle man brought his wife up for
being insane, the other day, but the bench dis-
missed the case. It seems that she refused to
believe be could be so unfortunate as to miss the
boat at Sydney five times running, and on dis-
covering a seventeen-button glove in the old
man's pocket, immediately caused the cuckoo
clock to be a thing of the past, and ventilated all
the front-room oleographs.
From the plan of the proposed Sydney
baths it seems that the intention is to have a
moveable floor to be laid over the bathing-well so
that rinking may be carried on at night. We
would warn members of Parliament and aldermen
that there is probably a dodge in this As soon as
they get a lot of those dignitaries on tbo floor you


may take our tip for it they’ll let go the ropes and
open the treacherous trap-door.
Dailey says it is love; not glory, which
fans the spark of chivalry. We presume Plain
William meaas self-love.
The ourang-outang has just arrived at
Sydney Zoological Gardens. It was at first
rumoured that ho was about to take the vacant
place in the N.S.W. Legislative Council.
The Hobart Mbrcury, a very solemn
paper indeed, jokes sometimes by accident. Thus,
in a leader, we read: “In the time of our grand-
fathers, as we need hardly remind our readers,
many offences wbieh are now considered as suffi-
ciently punished with a few years or a few month*
imprisonment, were capital charges.” The italics
are, of course, ours. i'he Mercury s “ need hardly
remind our readers,” is simply lovely.
A chart hangs in the Hobart Masonic Hall
representing an imaginary stream with many
tributaries, to show the rise and progress of
Masonry. An old gentleman who had just been
initiated to the mysterious rites of branding and
goat-riding, gazed admiringly at the picture and
remarked: “Ah! many’s the fish I’ve caught out
of that river.” And it took a deal of argument to
convince him that it was not the Thames.
The people of Bathurst, N.S.W. , are fast
attaining a literary turn of mind. A member has,
says the 8.F.P., given notice of the following re-
solution “ That the Bathurst Sentinel be placed
upon the table of the reading-room of the School
of Arts.” We shan’t be surprised after this to
hear of another literary member bringing forward
another that there be added to the library “ The
Life of Tom and Jerry,” by Mr. Bunions.
A writer in the Sydney D. T. says
“ Horse-exercise develops some of the best moral
faculties such as boldness, firmness, patience, de-
cision, kindness,'’ &o. Does it? We thought so
once, until one day a playful brute made us s t
with some emphasis on a stump 10 miles from
home. Before that ride our language would not
be out of place in a Sunday-school Now, it keeps
bullock-drivers agape with admiration and envy.
The Tasmanian Inspector of Fisheries re-
cently imported a coupie of English lobsters for
breeding purposes, at d forwarded them to a suit-
ably quiet spot in the country, with the informa-
tion that he would follow them next day. The
man to whom they were consigned misunderstood
the instructions and carefully boiled tie creatures
in readiness for the inspector's tea. Details of the
interview that followed have not been made
public.
More snakes. The Candelo (N.S.W.)
Union writes:—“Beware of snakes. One day
last week a child two years of age found in this
office a snake 14in. long, and as deadly as a death-
adder. The child, when discovered, wat dipping
the tail of the reptile in the ink bottle preparatory
to writing a leader on the necessity for Federa-
tion.” The snake was subsequently placed in a
bottle, and—hang it, we think he must have come
out of one first.
The man who runs the Hobart evening
paper is emphatically not a humourist. His
present office used to be a draper’s shop, and over
the door is still to be seen the rag-man's legend—
“ Economy House.” Which reminds us ot what
happened in Sydney. The Bank of New Zealand
took over the old premises of the a.M P. Society,
whose motto is “ Amicus certus in re incerta.” But
the bank hasn’t been so foolish as to be a certain
friend tc people in very uncertain things.
|. A N.B.W. country paper says “ The
eldest son of the Coburg tragedy went raving mad
after the funeral of his sister, and has been re-
manded to gaol. The eldest daughter became
very excited, and attempted to tear the bandages
off her wounded arm.” Now, it' they would give
us the name of the grandpa of the Wardell murder
and the sister-in-law of tne Bulgarian atrocities,
we will feel that it is to the country Press we
must look for definite information on such cases.
The North Shore Times and Manet
Press is a paper with a noble future. It teems
with information for people of all colours. The
editor speaks in a sad strain of a sale. Hear him:
—“ Nickle (sic.) plated alarm clocks were sold to
the highest bidder, who apparently intended get-
ting a few cheap lines, 3d. being the amount the
•locks were knocked down for.” We conclude
from this they also had to put a ha’porth of snuff
in the gold snuff-boxes to get the people to carry
them away.
Kiama is jubilant. “ Beach, the champion
oarsman of tne world, has signified his intention
of being present at their Exhibition.” Well, that’s
a good thing, now. Beach, by the way, has a
hundred times more of the “agreeable rattle”
about him than he had; and as soon as he has been
inducted into the mysteries of the more choir, he
will be quite the gentleman. Trickett was dis-
tressingly that way, too; and he possessed the
additional accomplishment of always pocketing
his table-napkin.
“ Portions o£ a swag, together with some
horse-ge*r and an unlighted fire are reported to
have been found,” &o. Thus writes a Sydney
evening paper.—
Softly, sweetly, we enquire—
What is an “ unlighted fire ? ”
’Tis enough to raise one’s ire,
Beading of “unlighted fire;’’
That editor should now aspire
To go where there’s a lighted fire.
At a recent meeting of the Gundagai Hos-
pital Committee, presided over by the venerable
Elwortby, the loca' editor, it was suddenly dis-
covered that 14 out of 79 subscribers had paid up
for the current year. On the chairman deciding
that only these 14 were qualified to vote and take
office, the venerable left the chair with great ex-
pedition, but, after some parley, he was hoisted
into it again, and adjourned the meeting for a
week. The Gentleman in the window of the hair-
dresser’s shop will probably preside on the next
occasion.
“ The forthcoming postal appointments
are expected to give ithe public general satisfac-
tion. Weli-known and tried officials have been
selected for duty in the far interior.”—B.C. paper.
A mon’h later. Lady sitting on benoh outside
Post-office in the haunted district of Gullibong,
waiting for the coach. Something tall, habited in
a long robe, suddenlv stands before her emitting
volumes of smoke from its mouth and nostrils.
Lady (distracted): “ It’s t*e bunyip I—help I * ake
all I have, but spare my life ” The apparition:
o Whisht! gjc away wid ye. It’s not the bunyip I
arn; it’s the new Poshtmashter.”
At Penrith, a man recently got a woman
“bound over” for threatening language. Her
defenoe was that she only asked him to “come in
and 868 his babies.” On his decliniog, the lady
pulled his whiskers, and raised a crowd, who
seemed in a general way to take the lady’s part.
How much better it is to live in a large town! The
whisker and baby racket is going on all over
Sydney, and yet you never hear anything about
it A bit of a “showing up” sometimes does not
do a Lothario—[expression quoted from Bveninq
News -Ed. B]-any harm. It gives him a hint for
the future to keep his whiskers under control.
James Hassell, of Narandera, cut his
throat, the other day. The newspapers supply us
with the puerile information that “no reason is
assigned for the deed ” If one had been assigned
the chances are that it wouldn't have been correct.
Some girl, or money transa tion, would have neen
lugged into the affair. Of course James had his
reason, a goon reason for his conduct. We pre-
sume that he wanted to cut his thi oat. Ask your
wife why she adopts »ome line of conduct that
doesn’t suit you. She'll say, “ Because 1 do." If
we could interrogate James at this moment as to
why he cut his throat, he would most )lkely mur-
mur: “ Because I did. And he’q be as un-
answerable as the missus is.
There is some talk in Melbourne of the
Victorian State school teachers “striking” be-
cause of the new regulations requiring a higher
standard of knowledge for the same screw. Any
unclean small boy without even the average intel-
ligence, will remark that that is an old game
peculiar to the dominie, and he, the small boy
aforesaid, will caress the fractured bosom of his
pants feelingly the while. Next to the “ holy
Roman ” of Irish parentage the teacher takes the
cakes for persistent agitation against the Vic-
torian Education Act. He is never without a
grievance; in fact, he has been “ raising Cane ” all
along the line- There is a little “goak” here
don't treat it like a stranger.
The fanciful absurdities gone through in
Australian courts of law in endeavouring to get
the bland Mongolian to grip an oath which will
bind his conscience to integrity is exemplified by
the story of a Victorian Judge. A particularly
child-like heathen was to be sworn, but his
theology did not seem to contain a ceremony of a
suitable nature. They tried him all round, be-
headed a moral rooster, and smashed crockery,
but the Ceie tial only grinned, and looked as if he
thought they were “having a lend of him.” Then
they iit a lucifer and held it for him to blow. He
surveyed it at first with a puzzled air; then the
li« ht of inspiration illuminated his countenance,
and, drawing a short black pipe from his pocket,
he lit it at the flame, and remarked that it was
good—” welly good.”
Fleas afford the legal luminaries in the
Melbourne Supreme Court more trouble than the
most taciturn and melon-headed of witnesses, all
the bounding ravagers of poor humanity who are
crowded out of the local bcardiag-houses drive
straight for the Tamp'e of Justice and make their
home there, and whe a there is acise of pith and
interest they invite their country friends down to
hear the lawyers distribute wild though hoary
jokes. It adds a piquant variety to the usual
court eloquence when the legal gentleman for the
defendant punctuates his oratory by wildly strain-
ing to seize a bloodsucker between his shoulders
and scrape another off his calf at the same time,
or when his Honor pauses in his summing-up to
scrape his shin-bone with his heel, and squeeze
a—joke ’twixt his thumb-nails.
A very touching display of affection and
gratitude on the part of an elephant occurred the
other day at Melbourne Zoo. An admiring citizen
waited on the bulky quadruped, armed with a
pound of lollies, and when he had fired the con-
fectionery into nis facial aperture that elephant
out of the fullness of his heart seized the man and
aoministered to him a hug, beside whici the
caress of a grizzly or of an affectionate young man
fades into insignificance. When the admiring
citizen got an opportunity he retired from the im-
mediate vicinity, and reposed under a tree. An
interested spectator remarked at the time how the
elephant must have loved him to treat him like
that, but the hugged one only groaned, and said
“Yes; it was nice for a man to know something
cared for him ” He then asked would he reach the
hospital quicker across the paddocks or round
by the road. Later on a doctor discovered three
fractured ribs and sundry other hurts about his
person. It is a peculiarity of this elephant that he
squeezes till he feels something break. He will be
getting hold of a Melbourne girl one of these
days and straining himself .
The Thargomindah Herald says it was
onoe in a large mining township with a population
of 3000, whose newspaper only had a circulation of
3001 Wonderful! We knew a mining oistrict
once, the population of which was over 4500, and
whose paper, the Miner, had only a circulation of
59. We were the editor, and we know that if we
took three half-crowns over the counter on pub-
lishing days there was joy in the office. Our
average, unless there was a great rush, was 43. (id.
We left that journal owing to a leader having ap-
peared in which the Mayor, a brother-ia-law of
the proprietor's, had been alluded to as a camel.
Having buttoned, on the day of dissolution, our
cheque in the pocket of our moles, we said to the
proprietor: “ Wait here a moment, sir. As we are
leaving, we wish to do so in an honourable man-
ner.” We then went over to the offioe and poured
all the long primer and brevier, &c., into one
pillow slip and rattled all the jobbing plant type
into another. “ There, sir,” we said to the proprie-
tor; “there is your type. When the new editor
comes, hand him these bags, and he will know
what to do with them. In the meanwhile, keep
them in a dry place." Then we saddled up and
made tracks.
It takes Mr. Frank Smith, lessee of certain
Sydney picnic grounds, to set up a true standard
of morality. At the coacluson of an alfresco en-
tertainment, the other day, the chairman said,
with pardonable pride, that he couldn’t feel more
puffed up than he did then, even if he had been
living on ginger beer and dried apples for a month.
The picnic was the greatest success ever scored
since the day that Helshazzar gave his birthday
party. Evervone had covered himself with glory,
and Mr. Smith “ had complimented him upon the
manner in which the festivities were conducted,
and remarked that one reason why he could look
upon the picnic with so much pleasure was that,
although there was such a numerous gathering,
he did not once have to call anyone to order for
using bad language.” When next the undertakers’
picnic takes place the facetious Smith will tell his
guests that the reason he considered that day the
proudest one of his life was because he didn’t see
a single corpse lying about during the whole of
the gay proceedings; no one had caved in the head
of a friend with the butt end of a “ pine-liner,” no
one had run away with another man’s wife, no one
had stolen the miniature tram and sold it for old
iron, no one had set fire to his premises, and
brained his cook, and no one had done anything to
excite a suspicion that he was a member of Parlia-
ment in disguise.
Many people will remember Mr. Cottrell,
the talented monologuist, whose clever entertain-
ment, “ Faces and Fancies,” given in conjunction
with the Caraudini Company, were so popular
many years ago, and how, when still in the zenith
of his fame, consumption laid him low. His
widow, formerly Miss Carandini, now contem-
plates marrying again, her choice being Sir Norman
Campbell, a scion of the Argyie family.
From the Melbourne Herald:— “Mr. T.
BrowD, of Fitzroy, writes:—* I think it is admitted
on all hands that the departure of Bishop Moor-
house from Victoria will be a serious loss, and
several friends have suggested to me the advisa-
bility of raising, by public subscription, the amount
of his extra salary, and thereby retaining him
permanently among us.’ ” Mr. T. Brown, of
Fitzroy, is a satirical genius and has evidently a
firm grip of the situation.
Something startling turns up every day in
Sydney. Now the Globe discovers that “ a smart
boy on a bicycle ” will bring the reports of “our
soecial reporter ” at the Hombush pales down to
King-street more quickly than the Telegraph IJ-:-
partment can run them through:—“ the gentle-
man who is entrusted with this duty dep sits his
last copy in the domebush telegraph-office, goes
to nis luncheon, returns here by train and tram,
and then has to wait about IQ minutes before the
telegram arrives.” ihere now, Postmaster-
General Daniel O'Connor, what d’ye think of that
now. at all, at all? Afther the blaze of glory ye
threw on Superintendent Cracknell, to think that
the spalpeen would serve ye such a dhirty trick!
“Goes to his luncheon,” is grand, superb, splen-
did, magnificent. A Press man having luncheon!
We are envious people.
A YOUNG MAN IN TROUBLE.
A Sydney young man recently sent a fervent note
to bis girl Ada, asking her to elope. The old man,
however, guarded her so carefully that she was
unable to do so. But she managed to console him
by sending him a few bottles of that celebrated
Anheusen Bu«ch ST. LOUIS L4GER BEER from
her father’s house, aad told him just how matters
stood.
WoiiFa’s Schnapps is sold by every respect-
able publican. Accept no other.
Emerson says:—“ A thing to be simple is
for it to be beautiful.” And lo‘s of people say a
thing of beauty is a joy for evepi Why not when
furnishing get such china, glass, and earthenware,
that can by its beauty bring to us joy, for we can
never get too much of it. Bray Bros., 402 and 404
George-street, are the joy-sellers *
Always ask for Wolfe's Schnapps and take
no other article,
SOCIAL
An interesting event, viz., a double red-
ding, took place last Wednesday week at Burwood.
The bridegrooms were Mr. F. M. Mills, of .Wood-
stock, Armidale; and Mr. Herbert M. Mills, the
eldest and youngest sons of the late Rev. Mark-
ham Mills, M D„ of Fawkenbam, Kent, England,
and grandson** of the late Archbishop Markham,
of York. The bride of Mr. F. M. Mills was Mrs. Jane
Hill, widow of the late Dr J. J. Hill, of Lambton,-
Newcastle, N.S.W.; the other fair bride being the
accomplished Miss Mary M Harris, second
daughter of the late Mr. William Harris, of
Knocklong, Ireland. The ceremony, which was
graced with musical honours, was performed
ny the incumbent of St. Luke's (the Rev.
Canon Moreton), assisted by a brother or the
bridegroom’s, the Rev. Charles M. Mills. A large
number of guests were present at the church and
at the sumptuous breakfast, which was provided
In Gunsler s best style. The festivities wound up
in the evening with a dance at Kingscote, Bur-
wood, the late residence of both of the brides, the
happy couples having sought the cooler and more
secluded regions of Mount Victoria.
* * *
On Wednesday, the 10th instant, Mr.
Charles Cox, only son of the late J. Cox, P.M . of
Forbes (N.S.W.), was married at St. Augustine s to
Miss Lottie, eldest daughter of Alderman Han-
cock, JP„ of Mertonville, Balmain. The bride
wore an exquisitely pure wmte silk gown with
long train, the front of the skirt being embellished
with rich white lace flounces caught up here and
there with orange blossom sprays. A most be-
coming orange blossom wreath encircled the head,
from which fell a long tulle veil embroidered with
white filoselle. The bridesmaids were four in
number —tbe Misses Hancock (2), Miss Stone, and
Miss Pines. Two wore pretty coral-pink dresses
and pink wreaths, and two pale blue with elaborate
white lace trimming, and carried magnificent
baskets of flowers. After the ceremony tne party
repair.- d to Mertonville and partook of the wedding
breakfast. Honeymoon—Sandringham.
* * v
During the recess of the Lynch Family in
town, Professor Stratham and Mr E. Crome
visited Wollongong, and gave an Organ Recital in
St. Michael’s Church. The church was thronged
in every part, over 400 persons being present—and
what was more, the collection—so the Rev.
Ewing informed the audience, was a remarkably
large one. Possibly the absence of aay prayers on
this occasion proved financially beneficial.
* * *
Very few smart costumes were to be seen
on the enclosure of Sydney Agricultural Grounds
on Saturday afternooD, upon the occasion of the
Siudan business, Lady Carington’s riding costume
Deing the only fetching article. Her ladyship’s
slight figure looked charming on horseback, and
her habit, which was very strait and short, was
of black cloth, the jacket rounded, and relieved
by white linen collar and cuffs, and just one little
pink rosebud stuck in a button-hole; a tall silk
hat rested on a neat coil of pretty brown
basket plaits, and the gloves worn were of white
undressed kd. Miss Harbord were cream silk
veiled with lace and a small peaked cream lace
bonnet ornate with a bunoh of deep pink rosebuds.
Miss Clara Manning was in pink, with sailor-shaped
hat trimmed with same colour; Miss Young, the
Mayoress, cream broche and lace, cream bonnet
and gloves; her sister, golden-brown satin and
brown straw bonnet touched with pink; Mrs.
Cohen, black broche dress, large white hat
trimmed with black velvet and white feathers;
Mrs. Purves was in a complete costume of a most
trying tint—between crushed strawberry and
faded red; Mrs. Phil. May—one of the beauties on
the ground, by the way—wore a perfectly-fitting
nut-brown satin dress, small round brown turban
hat, with brown feathers; Miss Montague, a
figured delaine, draped over cream canvas
cloth, small white hat bound and trimmed with
peacock blue velvet; Miss Stephens, cream can-
vas cloth touched witn ruby velvet, small bonnet
en suite: Mrs. Paget-Biyly, a handsome black
dress and bonnet; MiS3 Want, black dress and
bonnet, the latter relieved by a sensation of
orange ; Miss Barton, cream veiling dress;
a stylish-looking black canvas costume was worn
by a golden-haired lady, and a cream crepe drees
trimmed with multitudinous loops of very narrow
ribboD, a'l colours of the rainbow, was rather un-
common It may be that the handsome uniforms
of the officers caused the ladies' dresses to pale
almost into significance by comparison* but what-
ever the cause, cert'es the fair ssx made but a very
ordinary show for that day at least,
* * *
At last Mr. Critotiett Walker, Principal
Under-Secretary, has made up his mind to share
his joys and sorrows with another- Miss Heath-
cote, daughter of Captain Heathcote, RN., V.C.,
a charming young lady, Is the prize so long sought
for. .
* * *
Are Captain Terry and Miss Throckmor-
ton engaged ? That is the question.
* * *
Miss Gertrude Fischer leaves Sydney for a
Continental trip in March next.
# * *
M. Henri Kowalski, the eminent musician
and pianist was entwtainei at dinner by a
number of his friends and admirers at Bau-
mann's, Sydney, on Saturday night last Gver
sixty gentlemen, including nearly all the
principal amateu s and musical cognoscenti of
Sydney, sat down to a meal which wai exquisitely
served, and accompanied by wines of admirable
quality specially supplied by Renard anil Co. The
usual speeches were disposed of in less time than
usual, the chairman. Sir Patrick haying,
however, to exert his authority to prevent the
conventional ‘ olather” from trenching upon the
time designed to be allotted to music Once
arrived at this stage the evening w<*s passed in
unalloyed pleasure. Mr. Patek played a violin-
cello solo, a gentleman amateur Derformed a
violin concerto, and M K lwa'sk’, in response
to arient invitations sat down to the piano and
improvised a pot pqiirri of airs, eich haying a
distinct and different national significance. To-
wards the close of this fantasia, a mas si ve rendii pn
of “God Savetha Q icen ’ brought the company to
their feet, to be directly greeted with the noble
strains of the majestic “ Marseillaise "—that hymn
of liberty which stirs the hearts of lovers of free-
dom without distinction of nationality. The
company being essentially cosmopolitan, this in-
spiration had the happkst recipGon. The Consul
tor the French Ippublic, who was present, must
have been gratified by the enthusiasm with which
this air, at once so natior a! and so universal, was re-
ceived. This terminated the banquet, although a
few choice spirits remained behind some time
longer, indulging in mu3to of a lighter calibre.
* * *
Last Wednesday, Miss Geddes, daughter
oe Mr. John Geddes, of Botany, was married to
Mr. Walter Bradley, junr. The ceremony was
performed in the Presbyterian Church, Giebe
Point, by the Rev. Mr. Gardiner. Six bridesmaids
attended the fair bride, viz., Misses Florence,
Elith, and May Bradley, and the Misses Emjly,
Hetty, and Minnie Geddes, and were all attired in
pure white The breakfast was held in Needs
Room?, to which about 80guests sat down, and the
festivities were finished up by a ball in the evening.
Honeymoon at Melbourne. >
if * *
A few days previous to bis marriage, the
employdi of Messrs. Bradley, Newton, anu Lamb
assemoied at their warehouse in order to present
Mr. Walter with an addpsi eyprtssive of
their esteem, goodwill* and best wish ps for his
future happiness. A portrait qf himself in oils
and a handsome walnut cabinet accompanied tha
address, after which a sumptuous repast was
attacked and a most enjoyable afternoon spent.
jji ÜBNII VI ■ « HOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and SrniTwr streets, Sydney.
SHALL JTDKNITPRE. MATSTANDB,
JOL CHAIRS, LABOR ASSORTMENT.
IRNITURB, CENTRB and SIDI
- - BOOKCASES. SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOIJNOE CHAIRS. '
T IBRARY FURNITURE,
JJ TABLES.
Drawing-room suites, in rxquisitb
taate, the very latest fashion : well worthy ol
inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
ALL CABINETS for Choice China,
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Novelties in boudoir and bow window
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
EDROOM SUITES complete In various woodT
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney. '
71 IGIiT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.-Thi
li Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table an ;
glass, and two chairs. The lot for JSB. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB,. O’Connell-street.
EDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble tor
and tfle back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE
with swing glass attached*; PEDESTAL CUP.
BOARD, and 3 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and lAMB.
HEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from lQg.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 305.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.:
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80s ;
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Sideboards,
from E 3105.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets,
3
jOQRf PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
3Q OCf strong, and durable, Triohord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, In handsome
Case. Free at rail or wharves for cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
ASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
-1 > rooms. New designs covered to order In any
__ __
ROCKING EASY CHAIRB, elegant and restful,
a speciality. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O'Connell-street.
D Drawing-room cabinets.—Early English,
Anglo-Japanese, and Chippendale designs.
Just opened. BRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring & O'Connell sts.
RAWING-ROOM FURNITURE.—The latest
development of fashion. ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exqusite examples are now on
view In our Bhowrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Elegant novelties in bedroom for-
NIT ORE. full suites, in SATIN WOOD, ROSE-
WOOD, and other CHOICE WOODS, richly inlaid.
Will well repay inspection.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-st.
FOLDING-SCREENS (3 and 4 fold) for the Draw-
ing and DiniDg Rooms and Office. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
ARDEN SEATS, 20s: Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connel -street. __
T>ATTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES, 203.; and
Ihi large variety of Chairs, &c ; special designs,
extra quality. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring & O’Connell sts.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for clubs, restaurants,
smoking rooms, &c.
[ ELF-AD JUSTING HA M M OCK CHAIR—
Patented.
22
AWttl
•7:
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will oi
the occupant. It Is simple, yet ingenious in i»
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but m®®
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandan,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired*
The frames are of the best Eastern ash— strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when f( ided. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
2s. fid. extra. _______
FFICE FURMTDRE, WRITING TABLES
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, Newton
and Lamb.
IRON SAFES, various sizes. BRADLEY*
NEWTON, and LAMB, Spring & O’ Connell^
OPYING BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
WALL MIRRORS and BRACKETS—NoveIiI® 8
in plush and velvets and in all woods,
from 5/6. _
Elegant Venetian mirrors, richly
enamelled in colours. Bradley, Newton, ana
Lamb. _
OMMODE CHAIRS ; BIDETS, with PAN 5
Shaving Stands. Bradley, Newton, & Lam»
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
pulleys and cords, 6 x 8,6/6; 8x8,;9/-; 9 X °’
9/6; 10 x 8.10/6; 12 x 8, 14/6; 12 x 10,15/6. t a
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and frAMg^.
ICE CHESTB, with ARDS, all smes. froffl
275. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, Spring an®
Q’Cohnell streets. -
FURNIT CRE-TH E LARGEST STOCK IN TH®
COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAME*
Spring and O’Connell streets.
C


A LEGEND OF THE MURRAY.
A CAMP FIRE STORY.
, . . The boy was an old-fashioned little fellow,
intelligent beyond his years; the girl, a toddler,
the idol of his childish heart. He had spoken to
her mother anxiously many times, as if dreading
that this little sister would have to work and fret
through a dull, aimless lifetime; and gathering
from her words that there was a land of rest some-
where near the setting sun, he took her sentences
literally—one afternoon he got the child in the
boat, cut tne painter, and drifted down the
Murray. They were not missed till dark, and, of
course, the supposition was they had fallen in the
river, but the boat being gone convinced the
mother that the boy had left to seek the home of
rest for his baby sister. We found them next
night, the boat had caught in the branohes of a
wild apple tree, and the little things lay there
wrapped in the ’possum rug, and resting on a
fragrant couch of wattle blossom. They were
asleep iu each other’s arms. It was that sleep
which knows no awakening:
The Story.
My mother, your life seemeth dull and dreary,
Is never rest for the worn and weary ?
Will my sister, sweet, have this ceaseless sorrow,
Skatches at tho Kowalski Banquet.
ŧ
W”
Adwnfs
y/ano- G.ffl 0 f n facf
n t
T
' *
"‘N,
*
enmU' reeei
To sob to-day and be Sad to-morrow ?
Is there no place where the troubled breast
Is oalmed in a region of peaoe and rest ?
“Ycbl beyond the realm of the sunset golden,
Over the hills and the valleys olden,
Faraway from this world of tears and laughter*
In the distant land of the great Hereafter;
Beyond the gates of the golden west,
My child, is a region of endless rest.”
“See, the light on the waters beameth brightly.
Where tinted clouds o’er the stream float lightly*
Where the crimson and gold in the azure blending'*
And the sinking sun shows the day Is ending.
My sister, there, is the bright land blest,
The peaceful region of endless rest.”
“ The region where sorrow and woe come never*
Of playtime and love, and peace for ever,
Let us launch the boat on the fern-banked river
And sail where the western sunbeams quiver;
Each weary soul is a welcome guest
Who reaches the region of endless rest.
Let us seek, we two, for that land celestial,
And bid farewell to this world terrestrial.”
He fashioned a couch of the wattle’s blossom*
Wrapped her warm with skins of the ff&y
mi opossum,
Then launched the skiff from her ferny nest,
And pointed her bow to the golden west.
Soon the Murray, with murmuring lullaby,
With its sobbing soDg, closed each weary eye?
Ere the sun dipped twice through the western
portal
I hey passed to the home of souls Immortal*
And seraph-born® to the mansions blest,
Vwaked in the regions of endless rest.
-At Hergott (8. A.), a blackfellow went out
shooting and hurst his gun, shattering his hand.
Then, instead of tying up his wound, or going for
assistance, he set to work to hunt up the pieces of
that gun. The Hergott correspondent of the S. A.
Advertiser says there were just 43 pieces, and
the black found “ all, but one.”
Preaching reoently at Cairns (N. Q.)’
Bishop Stanton said that praying for rain out
West was to expect a stupendous and gigantic
miracle. After referring to the geographical
position of the country, he pointed out that it was
against the natural possibilities to expect rain
there, and to pray for it was absurd, as the thing
was simply a gigantlo impossibility. And as the
harmonium struck up the soul-inspiring strains of
“The Lord will provide,” the congregation paid
their threepences and filed out, with sorrow and
disappointment In their hearts.
Mr. Charles Henry Stebbins, who for some
years has waxed fat and kicked a deal on the pro-
ceeds of £8 cheques altered by him in value to
£BO, evidently hasn’t a very high opinion of the
N.B.W. police, for in writing to a Sydney friend
he said he intended soon to visit the city of the
Beautiful Harbour, make £SOO in a week or two,
and, like the hard-worked bishops, take a trip to
Europe. Charles Henry has now made up his
mind to stay in Australia a while longer.
A N.S.W. country paper says the best way
to kill a snake is to seize it firmly by the tail, and
then, drawing it quickly to you, crack it as you
would a stockwhip. In this way every joint in its
body will be broken, and if firmly held it is as
harmless as a stookwhip cracked in like manner.
Well, we have tried both, and would almost as
soon crack the snake as the whip. The latter is
dangerous enough, not only to the operator, but
to the neighbouring population. We essayed to
crack a 30-ft. whip once, and were extricated from
the coils just before we were strangled. After
reading the snake-cracking paragraph we
tried It, and, catching one about 4ft. long
by the tail, we gave him a shake, and he im-
mediately commenced spitting fire and brimstone,
and wasn’t disjointed worth a bronze penny.
We at once climbed a tree, and watched him till
he crawled Into a hole in the ground, after which
we climbed down and started to find the writer of
the par. We have not found him yet, but the
sight of the old familiar story brings hope to our
aching heart. When we sight the man we will
fetch along the snake, and, at the crowbar’s point,
oompel him to crack it. If he does, he will live;
if not, the bar will do its duty.
Here is an interesting par on the question
of woman’s alleged inferiority to man:-“If we
were asked what is to-day the great advantage
which man has over woman in the struggle for
existence, we should answer, without hesitation,
pockets. Pooket3 are the symbol of an orderly
mind, of logical powers, practical acquirements,
homogeneity. A bag—a woman’s bag, a shopping
bag—is the emblem of the kingdom of misrule.
The fact that he has conquered his pockets, so to
speak, testifies to the supremacy of man. If his
tailor demurred at putting them io, that useful
minion would find his occupation gone. But when
woman is told by her dressmaker that only one in-
accessible pocket is to be allowed her she supinely
submits and thereby proclaims her inferiority of
sex.” We won t try to add anything to this. It is
too apparent, too solemn, and too true to re-
quire any comment.
The forthcoming Victorian elections are
agitating snohocracy to a painful degree. A puny
Melbourne “ weekly ’ (and it is weakly), which has
no raison d'etre except to lickspittle Lady Loch,
and drivel about the “social world,” can hardly
find words to express its contempt for certain of
the Parliamentary candidates. Thus discourses the
twaddler-in-chief of this periodical—“ I was very
much amused the other day in glancing over the
list of names of candidates for seats in the new
Parliament. I And, for instance, that a former
lumper at the Sugar Works is aspiring to represent
Footacray.” The natural snobbism of this tea-
party chronicler revolts at the thought of any
level-headed working man entering the lists
aarainst softer-handed competitors. But * hero is a
special reason why this presuming lumper—Mr.
P. M. Salmon—should be abhorred in the sight of a
“society” beslaverer. Mr. Salmon is the thrice-
dyed villain-the reckless revolutionary caitiff-
who protested against the purchase of a summer
residence for Sir Henry Loch He described that
transaction «s a “job”; had the audacity to say
that if Sir Henry wasn't satisfied with the same
quarters as his predecessors it were better that he
should find a summer residence in some other
colony. Now, a sturdy Demoorat who ticks off Sir
Henry L ich and his lady in such a rough and
ready style is something to be shuddered at by
journalists who devote their greasy quills to the
apotheosis of the powers that be. This Mr.
Salmon’s crime consists less in being an ex-lumper
than in not being a snob.
At a recent meeting of the Sydney City
Council, Alderman Playfair said he was one of
those who voted for the dismissal of Mr. Sapsford,
the City Architect, over the illegal expenditure of
£7OOO, but, as Mr. Sapsford had a wife and family
depending on him, he would now vote for his
reinstatement. Alderman J. D. Youßg thought
that if this plan of reasoning was followed up a
man with two wives would have still further
claims on their consideration, whilst a Mormon
would be entitled to exercise greater power than
the Mayor and Corporation. We think that, in
course of time, our weakly dailies will treat us to
an occasional oar. in this style:—“More Police
Intolerance.—Numerous complaints having been
made of to the Postmaster-General respecting
the non-deli Very of letters containing money, a
detoctive was employed to secrete himself, and
keep the Post-Office c erks under surveilance. On
Tuesday morning one of the letter-carriers was
observed to thrust two letters up his sleeve, and
then start off on his rouuds. Tbe detective
at once followed, arrested the man in George-
street, found the letters, containing £lO each in
his pockets, and was about to escort his prisoner
to tae Ceotral, when tbe latter, shaking him off
indignantly, exclaimed * Unhand me. villain I
Do you not know who lam ? 1am84i63. Iffie
detective at once took from his pocket his official
list of citizens provided with legal certificates
enabl ng them to commit any crime, except wilful
murder, under tbe Domestic Privileges and
Family Relations Act, and turned to the number
mentioned. ‘What name? enquired the officer.
Timothy Filchitt,’ replied the insulted party.
•What family? * One wife and 14 children. Ail
correct, sir,’ returned the trembling detective,
‘ and 1 tr'St you will not take any further notiea
of my stupid error. I m new to this business, and
being a single man, I’m liable to 10 years im*
prisonment.’ ‘Very well,’ replied the kind-
hearted postman, as he walked off, but never let
it occur again. 1 ” [Things have come to a pretty
pass, indeed, when a respectable man, with such a
family as Mr. Filchitt has, should be subjected to
such an indignity as this. We demand a searching
enquiry at the hands of the Minister for Justioe.
Ex>. Daily Dead Wall.]
The Pilgrimage.
For many a year we wander over hill and dale and
mountain,
Yet for ever pressing onward till we’re weary,
worn, and old,
Searching for some spot elysian, where the poets’
crystal fountain
Sings its song of calm contentment in a valley
draped with gold.
Where the flowers bloom for ever lnlthe sun’s life-
giving kisses,
But never drooped ’neath thirsty skies nor felt
the winter’s chill;
Where smiling roses wreath no arbor where the
adder hisses,
And the future of our youthful dreams our later
days fulfil.
Then the purple tinge of morning thrilled our
careless hearts with pleasure,
And the sunbeams shooting downward with our
spirit shared their glow;
Then every bell and buttercup that blossomed was
a treasure
Iu those days that we have dreamt of In the
misty long ago.
The ropes of Sand that bound us then appeared so
deftly woven
That we noticed not each single grain the breezes
swept away,
Nor underneath the robe of beauty, silken-cased,
the cloven , . .
Hoof of Time that twined the garlands but to
gloat o’er their decay.
But joys of fife would pall upon the heart if they
for ever
Unbroken by a shadow shone in one eternal
glare,
And the bonds of love are strengthened in the
thought that they may sever,
And are hallowed in the memory of lives and
loves that were. _ „ „
J. P. B.
Wolfe’s Schnapps and water make the beet
and most agreeable drink in hot weather.
Recommended for hot climates —Wolfe’fl
Schnapps. _
Render the system disease-proof by taking
Wolf’s Schnapps.


PEPPER AND SALT.
How to put down crime is a problem
which need vex society no longer. A panacsa to
euro all wickedness has been discovered by a gen-
tleman concealing his virtuous identity from the
world under the initials “ J. NHis remedy, like
all truly great ideas, is simplicity itself. We quote
from “ J.N.’s ” letter to the Melbourne Hebald:
—“By report in the papers I see the prisons and
gaols of the colony are filled with criminals, and
no prospect of crime diminishing. I would re-
mark that as the Federal Council is now sitting,
one of the council should suggest the idea of
forming a Federal penal settlement in New
Guinea, where the worst class of criminals
could be sent. The climate there is very
unhealthy, and if criminals were sure of
being sent]it would be a great preventive of
heavy crimes. It is of no use to talk of human
feeling—[evidently I Ed. B.]— when dealing with
those that in many instances are worse than brute
beasts. If they knew they would be banished to
a country where fever is sure to prostrate them,
I am certain crimes now committed would be few
and far between.” “J. N.,” who gloats ever that
word “criminals,” with all the unctuousness of a
parson, has our warmest approval of his scheme.
The notorious Mr. Howard, who devoted a life-
time to the task of ameliorating the condition of
gaol inmates, was a well-meaniog but misguided
man. To preserve criminals—with a big, big C—
is to preserve crime. Dread of a journey to New
Guinea may not prevent bad men from doing bad
deeds as heretofore. But the climate will kill ’em
when they get there. Come hither J.N., and join
us in carolling
What’s the Mayor going to do. The eye
of the nation is upon him, and people are expect-
ant. No more hunks of beef carried on wheels,
we hope. That didn’t teach us anything. Tha,t
was to be seen 12 years ago at Simpson’s, in the
Strand. This luncheon was the only feed at which
we really missed our old friend the banquet duck.
We, however, lunched cheerily enough upon a
plate of sponge cakes, and a bottle of extremely
old medicine we mean madeira; while a young
lady next us, who appeared to develop a superior
amount of collar-bone, first eat Biunderbore’s
dinner off the joint, and then discussed her own
little luncheon of boiled mutton and capers, with
the turnips well laid on! When the thing was in
full swing, that rubicund butcher, ex-Mayor Play-
fair turned, with a groan, to Alderman Meebs.
“Meebs,” said he, in a low voice, “I should
never have dared to do this.” “Why?” en-
quired the other. “Because,” he said, hoarsely,
“ they’d have said I’d been taking stock; and that
these were the first of the alarming sacrifices.”
* ' >* *
It is stated that the Prince of Wales re-
cently won £50,000 at a gaming-house on the
Continent. The Queen is deeply pained at the
news, fearing he may contract gambling habits,
and— a change of luck:-
Good Wales, speech fails
To tell the pain we feel;
Great Scott, ’twas hot,
Your luck, who had the deal ?
To game is shame.
Your friends you will estrange.
The Queen, ’tis seen,
Dreads much your luck may change.
But still, we will
Not grumble at you, Al
And if you’re “ stiff ”
At any time, old pal,
Three cards, two “ pards.,”
A gin-case on the course,
A pug., a “ mug,”
And there you are, old horse.
* * m
The T; nterfield Stak in humorously re-
viewing the troubles of a school-teacher, quotes
the following paragraph from a N Z. school in-
pectoi’s report;—“The teacher is at present
living in a hut in the immediate vicinity of the
school. The hut was purchased by him for £l,
and he has expended on it the sum of £3 10s. in
procuring tongued and grooved timber for lining.
The necessary labour was performed by himself.
He had also made a very good swing for the chil-
dren, and an easel for the school. As he has
shown a disposition to make the best of thq oir-
oumstances, I beg to recommend that the com-
missioners refund the sum of £3 10s. expended by
him on the hut. If a new school is built, the hut
will be handy as a fowlhouse.” Brother Piller,
listen while we sing—
Hard by the present school-house stands a humpy,
old and mean,
Which, in its sere and yellow leaf, knows not the
living green;
Through cracks between its sheets of bark crawls
in the summer snake,
The glad gohanna, and such things, to keep the
“ school” awake;
The ’possum leaves his cosy nest and climbs adown
the tree,
To interview the master and obtain the rule of
three;
The bandicoot, right through the house, will lead
the porcupine,
To learn, beyond uncertainty, that three times
three are nine;
While from the sand, which floors the hut, the
lively little flea
Hops o'er the teacher’s snow-decked scalp, and
learns the verb “ to be ”;
The wombat leads the moa’s ghost to wake him
from his dream,
And ssk the teacher for the seuree of Old Thames’
limpid stream.
Dull children learn “ the rudiments ” through all
the we9ry day,
And one by one, before “the board,” their little
lessons say—
While he, the happy teacher there, the wisest*
best of men,
Lives in a place, just fit for fowls, which cost him
three pounds ten.
* ■ ■
For 12 years Carcoar Mary has entreated
those who do not get their paper regularly to com-
municate with the office; and it is a curious fact
that while she has never heard from a solitary
soul who did not get The Chronicle, she has
very frequently been communicated with by
people who did.
* * *
From the Evening News;—“lf Henry-
Blank does not return to me within one
month from this date I intend to get married
again. (Signed) Mary Blank.”—
Think of the time, dear Mary, when
He was the sweetest of all men;
How your heart jumped—glowed every sense
When you b©th met at Jones’s fence I
“ You’re just the girl for me,” he said;
“ You’re just the boy for me,” you blurt;
And then you cry, and hide your head
Upon your lover’s crimson shire.
Pause, Mary, pause; now, have a care,
We know all this ’causa we were there !
At supper-time that you should seek
To do us thus a cruel wrong I
Our coffee was so parlous weak,
And his was always brandy-strong!
And now—well, you take our advice,
And happy yet will be your lot—
The “ ad.” will fetch him in a trice,
J ust wait and see first what he's aot.
* * *
The Rev. Dowie has broken out in per-
spiration over the Bishop of Melbourne’s unfor-
tunate assurance that he would never, never,
never accept another appointment. Indignant
Dowie says the Bishop goes home “with a lie in
bis hands to get £4OOO a year. A true Disciple of
Christ would not leave one place where he was
receiving £lOOO a year for another place where he
would get£4oCoa year.” Pheughl The aggres-
sive faith hi aler is somewhat coarse. The Bul-
letin touched upon this matter in a more deli-
cate way. We merely insinuated that Dr". Moor-
house leaves us with an indisoreet speech on his
tongue. We have forgiven him. On that blissful
day when Dowie leaves us—ah, when I—we'll for -
get and forgive all his little indiscretions. As re-
gards the possible conduct of true disciples, we
must leave Dowie to hold his own opinion. We
have never run across one ourselves. The proba-
bility is that they hare gone the way of the dodo
and the mastodon. Let’us expostulate with Dowie.
Not that he will heed. We have expostulated too
often:—
At Dubbo recently, Dr. Gay captured a
burglar in hfs house at night. When the miscreant
was pinned, the following dialogue took place:—
DOC : “You dog, I’ve got you!” Bub.: “Oh
pardonney moi, m’sieu—iaissez-moi fuir.” Doc’,
(in French): “Yous allcz burgley mon maison.”
Bur. (piteously): “II me trompais—” Doc.:
“Trumpery, is it; that settles it. Come to the
lock up.” From one of the local
papers a few days later:—“ The prisoner was then
sentenced to six months’ hard labour, the P.M.
gracefully complimenting the dootor upon his
proficiency in the Gallic tongue.”
* * ¥
We see that the Victorians are going to
question Brett's claims as an amateur, he having
been elected one of the N.S.W. four. However,
let Brett bear up (he is not very likely, by the
way, to be much disconcerted I), and listen to the
following:—ln a crowded room a great military
man was dieorodited when he made a certain
statement as to his exploits. “PoohI” said one,
“ aide-de-oamp to Prince Durham I—why, there’s
no Prince Durham!” (Laughter) “No, no,
General; we can forgive a good deal, you know,”
cried aseoond; but Prince Durham is&leetle too
much.” Mixed chorus: “Now, you must own it
yourself, General—far too muoh; amusing enough,
but—.” Here the great military man rose to his
feet, and placing down a card in the centre of the
table, said, in a quiet voice, “ Prepare yourselves,
gentleman. You will have to fight that party to
morrow. Then he stalked calmly but. Immedi-
ately the G.M.M. had taken his departure, a rush
was made for the card. A moment afterwards a
hollow groan resounded through the assemblage.
Here is the card’s fac simile:—
: Le General Mark Guiverre, :
. Aiae-de-camp diplomatique,
De son altesse impdriale, :
Le Prince Jerome. :
—Palais Boy ale. :
So, you see, Brett, old fellow, there are others
doubted besides you. And think of the blood that
will flow 1 But you can afford to keep quiet. No-
body has any doubts about your bona tides as an
amateur really. No one, indeed.
* * *
“The steamer despatched by the pro-
prietor of the Auckland Star to search for the
new island, or stranded ship, or whatever it wae
that the captain of the Herald saw off Cape Van
Dieman, has returned, and the crew give it as
their opinion that the object was a stranded whale
harpooned by some Mao ries a fortnight ago. They
could not find either ship, whale, or island them-
selves.” . . . The Beverend S. Macfarlane, one
of the South Sea Island saints who guide the un-
sophisticated nigger to salvation or elsewhere, by
means of the “ Oil Beligion,” stated last week in
the Pitt-st. ( Sydney) Congregational Church, that
“he had purchased the island off New Guinea, on
which he has established a central mission station,
for 63. worth of hoop-iron.” And he also said
that the wages he paid to natives for clearing
ground on the island were six inches of hoop-iron
per man per day:—
A supernal glow suffused the breasts of holy men
and women,
When the captain of .the Herald and his live
veracious seamen
Told the world they found an island off the coast
of Cape Van Diemen.
Hands were rubbed sgainst side-pockets and pale
faces dry and weary
Cracked and split in queer contortions with the
effort to be cheery,
But the wriggling convolutions all in all were
ghastly dreary.
’Tis a fact that in the South Seas there is soarce an
island standing
But has had the sacred-tidings trick played on it,
preachers landing
Precious hauls of goods and chattels. Why, the
other night commanding
Bapt attention, the Macfarlane told the Sydney
people how he,
Bobed in grace, stalked through New Guinea, as
the apostolic Dowie
Does the pas along North Melbourne; and his
hearers must allow he
Knocked those natives with a vengeance. Why,
Voltaire, Bousseau, or Byron
Never made the faiths look grimmer that poor
human lives environ
Than did this barefaced apostle with his cargo of
hoop-iron!
There was little use in others going northward, so
this dryland,
Which the captain of the Herald found, looked
like a smiling island
For fresh missionary enterprise dropped from the
a zure sky land.
And the languishing apostles packed their trunks
with threads and laces,
With red ribbons and green beads to shake before
the wond’ring faces,
And resolved 6aoh one immediately to grab the
likely places.
But, alas I the news came after that the island off
Van Diemen
Was a skeleton exaggerated by the silly seamen—
Which has stopped the frantic facial work of these
good men and women.
* * *
At St. Peter’s Cathedral,'Armidale, Mr.
W. E. Hart was recently married to Miss Oliver.
With the peal of the joy bells still in our ears we
can call upon the muse to wish the young couple
the fullest felicity :
Friend Hart, we wish you every joy,
May Hymen’s bonds be silken fetters,
May trouble from your path deploy,
And every post bring monied letters;
And paddling in your own canoe
Adown life’s calmly flowing river,
She'll murmur, “ Oh, fond Hart, be true,”
And you’ll reply, ‘lam O-liver.”
* * »
Poor Batt. is crushed again, just as he
thought he was going to enjoy himSeif. He went
out hunting with the Guards’ dragnounds (sic),
and was taken home in the silent eve on a shutter-
Her Majesty, when the Prince had sufficiently re-
covered from the “cropper” to present himself
before her, told him that he must regard his hunt-
ing days as over. “ Oh, not altogether, mal ” en-
treated the Princess Beatrice. “ Madame, ze hunt
hi adore!” exclaimed her husband. “Oh, well,
it’s of no use, children,” returned the Queen pet-
tishly, “ I have made up my mind. We are not a
hunting family. The Prince Consort did not hunt.
Twice I permitted him to indulge in the pleasures
of the stag-chase. On each occasion poor Albert
started on horseback—on each ocoasion he was
brought home by rail. The second time, he agreed
with me, that we were not a hunting family.
Bertie, you know,” continued Her Majesty,
who appeared to have got the hang of her
subject, “ rarely huzts, and when he does
he by no means scores a success. I have even
heard that when hunting, his suite have nick,
named him' the ‘ belster.’ Grossly impertinent,
of course, but there’s the fact. And your hunting-
too, Henry, has been very expensive. You never
go out but you lose some portion of, or some orna-
ment to, your dress. Fifteen boys have brought
I home 15 different buttons from that German
uniform thing of yours. And Lady Luffiold re-
ports having had to reward each boy with a
shilling—until I declare, really,” cried Her Majesty,
much agitated, and breaking off at a tangent,
“ that what with a shilling here and a shilling
there, I really hardly know—” Her Majesty was
here interrupted by the entrance of the Lord
Chamberlain, who announced the immediate
apoearance of the Kail. At this moment the
Queen’s private band struck up the well-known
air (well known at Balmoral), “To the Haggis let
us Gang.” It is a song, by-the-way, of which the
first verse runs as follows:
“ To the Haggis, let us gang,
Eh, to cooltie con ye sen,
May ye nookit noose lang.
Avan gooloch an ye ken.
To the Haggis,” etc.
During the honeymoon, however, Princess Bee, by
way of perfecting Prince Henry’s education,
taught him the concluding stanza of the weird
lyric, which is to be sung with one foot on the
table, waving your claymore the while. Here you
are:—
“ Koieh be naft mine Collie, dear,
Druma voitch a bonnee sang;
Ordan room wi bannocks near
To the Haggis let us gang.
To the,” etc.
We have too deep a sense of what is due to
Royalty to further intrude upon Her Majesty’s
privacy.
* * *
The Hon. John Carr said at the Wesleyan
Conference in Adelaide that the Coburg tragedy
was distinctly traceable to the Pall Mall
Gazette's “ Maiden Tribute to Modern Babylon.”
Not so, Mr. Carr. The Gazette's article had just
as much to do with this as your speech had to do
with the abolition of the totalisator, A word with
you:—
So, Honest John,
You gaze upon
That article as having stamped on
Those maiden brows
(Your speech allows)
The brand of Cain for Mesdames Hampton.
But say not so,
For, Carr, we know
(it least the daily papers say it),
The girls were mad,
And so they had
Removed the child to calmly slay it.
No cause assigned
The vacant mind
Secured a reason prompt and Stead-y.
Blamed the Gazette,
But people yet
Think they were mighty mad already.
Now, John, attend,
We say, old friend,
You’ve struck (you understand) a “ blizzard.”
Just keep you dark,
Or some mad spark
May come some night and slit your gizzard.
JUBILATE.
Good bye to evil-doing,
A long farewell to crime ;
A social scheme is brewing
Which seem* to us sublime.
For a heaven- born invention
To abolish Eaughty men,
What need is there to mention
We have to thank J. N.?
The man who robs his neighbour,
Or frequently gets “ tight,”
Has hitherto done “ labour
And people thought that right I
But a genius has arisen
Who tells us, in a word,
That sending “ lags ” to prison
Is really too absurd.
He offers a suggestion—
It knocks us over quite—
Which puts the social question
In quite another light;
At present, says this party,
We put our rogues in gaols
And keep them hale and hearty—
That’s where our system fails.
The purport of the letter
Of Christianlike J. N.,
Is—” Surely ’twould be better
To send away such men—
The forger, goods-receiver,
Or larrikin—from hence,
To where they’d die of fever.”
(Now isn’t that immense !)
The region round Fly Kiver
Can now be turned to use—
With any robber’s iiver
'Twould play the very deuce ;
The climate is unhealthy,
(Poor Scratchley died, we know)
And fever, slow and stealthy,
Would lay the robber low.
Thus crimes would soon diminish—
They’d dwindle bit by bit—
For that climate warm would finish
The chaps who crimes commit.
A scheme with so much in it,
Fair trial we ought to give—
Let’s send J. N. this minute,
And see how long he’ll live.
AN EXTINCT RACE.
There may be priests who give no thought
To trifles such as “ screw,” sir;
But study of the cloth has taught
Us they, indeed, are few, sir.
Where does a “ true Disciple ” hide—
W ere can a fellow find him ?
We fear the last true D. has died
And left this tale behind him.
E'en if there lived some curate meek,
Who once refused a rise, sir—
No bishop could have been so weak,
So bashful, so unwise, sir;
They only gain such high reward
Who make it here their mission
To preach the gospel of the Lord
Prom a feather-bed position.
Wolfe's Schnapps taken three times a day-
will make a different man of you.
The greatest appetizer, stomach blood and liver
regulator on earth—. American Co.’s Hop Bitters
Look for and read
BEALE & COMPANY
City Show Rooms,
886 and 012 GEORGE STREET,
12 CENTRAL MARKETS,
161 OXFORD STREET
AGENTS and TRAVELLERS In EVER Y
COUNTRY TOWN.
Address Letters of Inquiry—
-371a Pltt-stroet, Sydney.
THE LATEST TRIUMPH of SEWING MACH IN B
MECHANICS,
The “ BEALE ”
HIGH-ARM
PATENT SEWING MACHINES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THB
Wertheim Sewing MachifiSp
The “Hapsburg” Pianos.
SOLE IMPORTERS,
BEALE ANDCOHPANY.
THE “HAYDN” ORGANS
AND
HARMONIUMS.
Sole Importers
BEALE AMD COMPAHY.
FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
and
FULL INFORMATION,
Address
ANY LOCAL AGENT OR TRAVELLER;
or,
BEALE & COMPANY
Sydney.
J, TURN EH ROBINSON & CO.'s
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-streef,
Established 1861,
HAS THB LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
. _ STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURER*.
I®“ Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect at
gaar&otned.


Ad Musophilem.
( Continued .)
me 3 some weak scion of that ruffian band
That Norman William led to English land,
«rho scanting pillage, left their dative France
/Their absence her moat fair inheritance),
And, slaying right and left With ruthless swords,
Became the founders of the Souse of Lords;
Borne languid grandsoa of some flighty dame,
Whose pranks had made all Su3Sex-street cry
“Shame”
/In High Life, titles ofotime3 pay the wretch
for conduct that, in Low, secures “three
stretch ’);
A jewelled trull, whose earliest marriage-ring,
Was from a groom, whose latesi from a king,
Some pale-cheesed heir of a lascivious age
With Kink and Scrofula dor heritage,
Descend to cross the “ deep dividing flood,”
And daze our prostrate worshipoars of Stood ?
Seize thou, MusophiLes, thy softest pen—
Make haste to shame this land of brown-faced
men;
Sprawl as he sprawls who Mecca’s shrine adores,
Not only knesl, but grovel on all-fours,
Declare this cripple from across th 9 sea
Well worthy of bis “ old nobility.”
Aitlict us sore with genealogy,
Confront us with his pre-hiatoric “ tree ”
(Not the financial one which he is up);
Show him, ’mid lesser guns, a perfect Krupp-
Spill all the slaver in thy soul amassed,
In servile slobberings uphold tng Caste -
Become his L ordship's shadow day by day,
His valet buttonhole-his cook waylay;
Tell ail thy class, to whom thy welcome words
Will sound more sweet than song of woodland
birds,
Who doss his clear-starching—what size in gloves
Hetakes-what tipple in his soul he loves.
Tell them iu tones that well might soften rocks
What shape his nightcaps are, what hue his
socks—
What e’er he sees of us, see with his eyes,
What e’er he says, proceed to crystallise
In verse; find statesmanship in his remarks
Applauding Dibb3 or highly praising Parkes.
Da all his movements bid the nations doat
And sing nis viraues with incessant tnroat,
Tay patrons wi 1 declare its note is clear,
Tnough men will wish it cut from ear to ear.
Are there, among us, those who pant to seize
The power to shape a nation's destinies;
Who hunger to pos3e33 more fruitful earth,
And strangle every Land Act at it 3 birth;
'6-ray, leathern miscreants, whose countless flocks
Have multiplied in peace on wild black-blocks—
Ex-cattle duffers, versed in changing brands,
And slily fattening stock on others’ lands;
Who, caring less for men than rams or bulls,
Have grown up smoke-dried, New South Wales
Moguls-
Whose soul’s pulse lowers with the riSB of bales,
And beats iu unison with London sale 3,
With lives devoted to no purpose higher
Than remedies for scab and Sampson wire;
These are the squatters, who, in days of old,
When sinewed seekers delved the earth for gold,
Saw surer fortune, won with smaller toil
Waiting upon the surface of the soil,
drew sheep and sold them at starvation figures,
So wrung the ounces from successful diggers;
These are the squatters, who, in later days,
Hold journa’ssubsidised to sing their praise;
Who, grown in station with succeeding years,
Ignore their early role of pioneers,
Hide every trace of Vandemonian growth,
Nor now affirm by their Colonial Oath.
Ape cultivation, and, in broadcloth ooats,
G o forth to canvass free-selectora’ votes
(Their foe3—the weary toiling slaves who strive
With grievous labour to remain alive,
Who darkly plot to plough, and sow, anl reap
On land that God created to run sheep),
Among them some, who, in the days of 11 lags ”
Wore far more mean attire than noncst rags,
Yet make pretence while laughing in their sleeve
To love the country that they dare not leave,
Or take their patriotism mixed with profit,
And, loving this fair land, love plenty of it.
Who wish to brook no Europeans who reek
In wild excesses on a pound a week;
But in the place of Sybarites, like tbese,
Acclimatise the meek and cheap Chinese—
Who hope to crush the tiller that they hate
By managing the tiller of the State;
Who, Kelly-like, encased in golden armour,
Strongly attack the undefended farmer,
And, by a pressure he well understands,
Compel him surely to put up his hands;
Whose fences, like the webs of some va3t spider,
(Spread their absorbing me3hes ever wider
’To grasp a boundary and save a rider;
'Who, knowiog grass is gold, as they amas3
IMore gold, expend it wildly in more grass-
Whose leagues of pasture (with the roads thrown
in) •
Make golden fleeces easy things to win.
Thin, ill-clad sinners on whom Fortune smiles:
Mean, grasping autocrats of some square miles
((Miles won in certain cases, and not rarely,
As many a record shows us, none too squarely);
In morals somewhat weak, in language strong,
Breadful in Queensland, mighty in Geelong—
Boss one of these announce a fixed intent
To serve his country in its Parliament ?
Sail in, Musophiles, with pliant quill,
Writhe at his feet and idolise your fill,
H erald the glory of this “ shepherd king.”
What though he wears old bluchers ti9d with
string ?
Tell us at once (and this you truly can)
That neither socks nor spelling make a man;
Discourse in words that roll In unetuousness
Of true ability’s true test —Success.
Itival in “ rot ” his most afflicted sheep,
Kow-tow before him in a sordid heap,
Proclaim his “hardiness ” —a certain card
To play, as pioneers are mostly hard.
Does his coarse speech make e’en Sir John’s cheek
blush ?
Call him “a rugged Tlmou of the bush;’’
Explain that, though his lioart may be a lamb’s,
As a backblocker he must have his "dams.”
Is he too miserly to clothe his limbs ?
Deolare that greatness always has its whims,
That men to wise economy inclined
Are the best rulers that a State can And;
Use all your strength your fellowmm to school
To abject, slavish reverence for Wool.
Then, should he through your help attain the goal,
And head—whose head should grace a pole—the
poll,
Take your reward, and rest your hide-bound
brain—
A Crown Land 3 Bailiffship may be your gain.
Do portly Polemics assail our eyes
Bedecked with Pharisee phylacteries ?
Good easy souls, who eat and drink and sl"ep,
And read His holy mandate, “ Peed my sheep,”
As “ Peed my shepherd”—men whose purple gills
Bespeak a share of eaah good thing that fills;
Bach of whom travels, without troubling why,
The road appointed tiioi to travel by,
Goes with precision through h:s daily work,
Mases Latin sound as if it came from Cork,
3ays reverently every needful mass,
And loves to gaz upon the br taming glass,
His time (given both to soul's and b ody’e needs)
Divided ’twixt his bottles and his beads;
Waose ample jowls, beneath his broa'-brimmed
hat.
Dimple with happiness and shake wiitt fat;
Who through a narmleas, dud existence pants,
And pities the deluded Protestants.
Or harder Hierophants, with brows austere,
Who wield the wand of superstitious fear,
And strive to win men to a better state
By telling of the Lord's eternal hate;
Harsh, thln-lippad monitors, with eyes of bale—
Stern Savonarolas of pigmy scale;
Dogmatic Daniel Dancers, wearing gyves
Of Avarice round cold, unlovely lives—
Lives of unfruitful days and bitter nights,
Shorn with the rancour of relentless rites;
Liv 63 cast - and in the name of Him who died
On Calvary's crossl-upon the pyre of Pride,
Which seek far les3 to follow Him than dower
His Church with arrogance of earthly power;
Ascetic tyrants who, with sunken cheek
From fierce denial, cannot yet be meek,
Who, having power, for sinners would excel
All horrors Dante has conceived of Hell.
Who, w.th fierce joy, would see the days return
When priests would chant while heretics would
burn;
Who, viewing mankind through some mouldy
tome,
Rebuild in dreamt the haughty strength of Rome;
Nor note how every system has its day—
Rises and glows awhile, and fades away;
Who claim to be the true interpreters
Of one sure Faith, which never shifts or errs.
And pent in solemn solitudes,—remote
From the true lives of men, hear some sweet note
Of Nature's voice of Change—some hint discern,
But stop their ears, and will not heed or learn.
Clinging in hope, that may be half despair,
To battered idols of the days that were,
Gray remnants of some cold and lampless shrine,
As to the ruin clings the feeding vine;
Who, next to God, assume supreme control
As His appointed stewards of the soul,
Yet manage, ’mid the press of holy cares,
To keep one eye on temporal affairs;
Who, scorning gold, yet wrest it from the poor
To gild a V.rgin—or adorn a door,
And preaching “ Money fathers many ills,”
Leave the curst thing to others—in their wills.
Do silken Bishops roll in broughams by
With fatted fluak’es gorgeous to the eye ?
Reformed Church magnates, keenly trained to
cope
With all the hellish doctrines of the Pope,
Great misters of one very useful art,
To live in plenty, while the people “ part”;
Despots of many a rich episcopate,
Where clinking “thrums” o’eiilow the ample
plate—
Benevolent old frogs, of kindly eye,
Well versed in all the ways of sophistry.
Who, like so many monarchs, wield their sway
O’er lesser lights, who tremble and obey—
Laborious curates, to sustain whose lives
Their scant emolument but scarce contrives—
Who hold in Llfe’sgame each an ace of spades;
Loved by the richer olass of antique maid*,
Courted by matrons, smiled on in the street
By fair “communicants,” divinely sweet,
Fawned on by bulky merchants,—to be brief,
Respectable and good beyond belief;
Who dwell ia palaces, and rest their heads
(Unlike the Son of Man) on feather beds,
Who, having each his little Bank account,
Blush not to read the Sarmoa on the Mount!
On business principles attend their fold,
Not as the first Disciples did of old,
And out of Satan take full many a fall
On—well, more equal terms than could Saint Paul.
Do unctuous Wesleyans, with shiny hair,
All round us congregate in angry prayer,
That all their brethren—Wesleyan lambs alone—
Receive acceptance at the Great White Throne ?
Exultant Chadbands, who, with upturned eyes,
Hand over to the worm that never dies
All Unbelievers, having naught to choose
Save Hell’s eternal flames, or—Wesley’s views;
Or strident members lay, who sweat and groan,
And give God’s word 3 a rather nasal tone.
Converted greengrocer*, who now entreat
For Grace, as erst for buyers in the street;
“Awakened ” burglars— very much awake,
Who gave their “jimmies” up for Heaven’s sake.
Who having picked all other looks, despair
Of picking Heaven’s, save by Wesley’s prayer;
God-fearing storekeepers who bow the knee
To God, and sell His creatures spurious tea,
Their Sabbath bellowlngs the conscience price
Of a week’s profit upon shameful rice.
Here we will take the liberty, for once,
To quote some bitter verse of Tennyson’s—
Keen, acid lines whioh very clearly tell
The poet knew the Methodist full well:—
“ With all his conscience and one eye askew,
So false, he partly cook himself tor true,
Whose pious fraud, when most his heart was dry.
Made wet the crafty crowsfoot round his eye,
Wno, never naming God except for gain,
So never took that’useful name in vain;
Made Him his catspaw, aad the Cross his tool,
And Christ the bait to trap his dupe and fool—
Nor deeds of gift, but gifts of grace ha forged,
A-?d, snake-like, slimed his victim ere he gorged;
And oft at Bible meetings, o’er the rest
Arising, did his holy, oily best,
Dropping the too rough H in hell or heaven,
To spread the Word by which himself had thriven,’’
Do Presbyterians, ever on the watch
Some erring brother of the cloth to catch,
In sounding Synods, met to spread the grace,
Ape many of the worldly feats of Mace;
Where each hi 3 neighbour-shepherds' failings
paints
In words unknown to gentlemen or saints,
Declares each other pastor's worship is
A lower braad of holiness than his,
Denies his godliness, gives him the lie,
Or even “ peels ” and belts him in the eye ?
Lean, leathern Calvins of a later day,
Who seem to curse the things for which they pray,
Who cry to all the world, “ O blindfold fools! ’
And seek to do God's work with Satan's tools;
D pur sullen bigots at whose tones depart
All light and j ayaunce from the human heart,
Who, seeing ii > were ablow an j Jambs at play,
And chi dren romping on the Sabbath Day,
BPa their stern Sips and turn their eyes away—
Who, if the Lord were Scotch and beard their
prayers,
Would have the world a place of tear? and tares,
Not seeking to bring Heaven for us bolow,
But trying how a touch of Flail would go.
Do sordid hypocrites and ribald rogues
Call Afferent wares from differing synogogues,
Proclaim the shortf sfc cuts to Heaven and tell
•The latest ,l wrinkle 3 ”in avcidirg Hal';
Like rival bookmakers, who, hot and hoarse,
Give you your choice upon the Randwick course,
Who do His wcrk and hump their cr< sses round
For Love ? No—for so much a weak and found,
Day-work apo3(liS of obicure sub-creeds;
Martyrs of tea-fights end alfresco feeds,
Of vest digestion, of appearance smooth,
Who “travel on the gaire” and spread Terewth;
Discordant swarms of sombre birds of prey,
Who well m’'ght fright the Evil One away
With anti-devilisms, that disagree
In all, save brotherly inharmony.
Thy voice, Musophiles, at once uplift,
Warn us of Modern Thought’s injurious drift,
In quavering couplets tell tbe doleful tale
Of how Agnoslics make themselves a Baal
To kneel ia worship to—not to the skies,
But to all Nature lift adoring eyes;
Warn Christians that ai one they must finite
And, strong in faith, fight out tbe good y fight,
Combat FrCethought which openly derides
Sure guidance and declines to pay sure guides;
Deplore the impiousness, no longer mute,
That dare 3 men’s direst sorrows to impute—
Not as the churches, in their palmier days,
Directed—to the lord s mysterious ways—
But to men’s selfishness, which dares to hold
That all these churches in the days of old
Were fetters forged by cuming artisans
To bind tbe sturdy limbs of Ignorance,
Which thinks (and says so loudly, which is worse)
That priestcraft has been mar kind's darkest curse,
A maze of mystic rites snd sorceries
Designed to bring the people to their knees;
Call on the world with this cre&d thirg to cope
That seeks to undermine man’s fairest hope,
Cry out in woe, “ Irreparable loss
If Atheist hatchet 3 should hew down the Cross,”
Sound all the scale of platitude and cant,
Ba now a P*pist tow a Protestant.
It matters nothing—have your platform broad
Affirm all creeds bow down before one God;
Say this with fervour, nor by inward laugh
Hint that the god may be the Golden Calf;
Show that R9vea'ed Religion leads the van
In all high schemes for elevating man,
And ever has done so, and then contrast
The holier present with the hardened past;
Of all the virtues show the fair increase
In modern London over ancient Greece;
Attiibute all things that are wise or good
Or glorious to the Courch's fatherhood,
And to the scoffing scientist who pries
Through Nature’s workshops with observirg eyes,
The sneeriDg sceptic who will net believe
The Serpent ever said a word to Eve,
Who, blind to his own utter wormbood—vain
Of his own knowledge labours to explain—
As natural effects or “ put-up ” sells—
The Church’s veiy latest mirae’es,
Who, bare-headed to Nature, stands and “guys,”
With hat undoffed, the Church’s Mysteries,
And, with a smile on his sardonic face,
Reduces them to a commercial base.
Be wholly merciless-in words that bite
Assail each Satan-hearted Heterociite.
Call them hard natpes, and do not fail to quote
The Saviour’s wordspbout the beam and mote;
Picturq with confidence the difipalgoal
That waits the inky sc ql of logersoll.
Be sure to terrify us once again
With stories of the death of Thomas Paine;
Tell how the Lord, as from a thousand throats,
Shall say to Darwin, Go among the goats,”
And Symes, of all audacity bereft,
Be sternly ordered off towards the left;
While Bright and Bradlaugh will be firmly jammed
Deep down amoDgst the vilest of tbe damned,
And the place occupied till then by Cain
Be heated up afresh for Chamberlain
(The peerless monster who incites the crowd
To have the Church of England disendowed).
Let all these things, Musophiles, have vent;
It is thy safest line of argument,
And truths like these thou only need’st assert,
And leave t e infidel to controvert;
The Church will bless thee—by whatever name
The Church is called—’twill bless thee all the same,
And prayers for thee ascend, most happy man,
la Scotch, in Latin, and in Wesleyan,
Thy name will be beloved by Christian men,
And large prosperity reward thy pen—
Though some Church pranks may move all Heaven
to mirth,
The Church ia strong to bless or curse—on earth.
Now is the winter of tne Counter-skipper’.*
discontent mace glorious by the sunny smiles oi
his fair customers, who baviag encouraged him i
tear do w< half hisshoprwotuly enquire if he “basn
got s metbing just a stmae lighter.’ md this «-
minus us that nooning cores the average bus.- an-
more than being compelled to go in to a milliner
snoo and stma as still as a stump while his wife i.
wtiding round in a sea of silks arm satins. He'
much ratherstsy out unthe pathway, and wait-
even if it was naif a mile to the next public housi
how different is tne case when ic is the patie
wife who is waiting whuethe husband is doing h
snooping. Nothing could ever tempt her to leave
the shop door, especially when her iord and mast r
(as he is facetiously called by some) hasapenefrant
for slipping round the corner, to “see a man” oris
inyesting his cash where he will get the best return
for his money, yiz.,Bummerfleldand C0.,-335 and 337
Pitt-street.*
Woman Items
At Maryborough, (Q ), a butcher has had
to pay £1 fi r Mssing a cu«tnmer. Tne girl didn't
want to prets the case, hut her mother mads her.
Mora): Always Mas the old woman first.
A Brisbane paper solemnly announces in
.reply to a correspondent, that by on,-: mb law a
man is not allowed to marry hit, wife’;; deceased
sister, wbat a fund of information these No them
papers must have, to be sure.
“ Marriage with a tinge of romance,says
an exchange, “ is what they caii it in Kansas when
the old mao rides after the couple, and adopts the
hat off the bridegroom’s head with an army car-
bine. j hey call it a romantic n arriage in Michigan
when a couple of the neighbours get the bride’s
father into a back room and tit on him to pre-
vent his interrupting and breaking up the wed-
diDg.” ’.these ate rum-antic marriages. We used
to call it a romantic marriage in Australia 20
years ago, when the groom dathed to the door
of the lady’s homestead station, and, stoopiDg
from the saddle, placed her before him, and
“got.” Then the old man rooted the boys up,
caught some hones, and with half-a-dozen blacks,
picked up the tracks of the runaway, and started
in pursuit, arriving at‘the next static n, 50 miles
away, just in time to see the J. P. kiss The bride.
Then tne old man and the groom had 22 rounds
in front of tne station, after which the health of
the bride was diunk in pint-pels of rum, and so
were inaugurated tome of our aristocratic
families.
They do these things better in Maitland.
In that bustling town live a Mr. Dutton and a
Miss Frances Rley. They live together, ’the
fact that they are unrr arried appears to give them
no uneasiness. Not being in “ society,” they
mate no pretence of conforming to ils edicts.
Still, Mr. Dutton has feelings with which it is not
safe to trifle. So. the other day, seei. g Miss R ley
engaged m some harmless familiarity' with a full-
grown man, he stepped to the front, and a m: rnent
afterwards Frances found h rselt standing on her
head with h*=r heels gyiaiing In space, For this
oroof of affection Mr. Dutton was secured by a
lynx-eyed peace-officer and brought Ute-a-tete
with the Mayor, when the following ensued:
M : “ Why don’t you get married, and then you
would have a right to prevent other men inter-
fering with her? ’ (Be might have added, -‘ And
can wallop Per whenever you’re low-tpirited and
want reo eation.”) D.: “ Well, after this is settled,
I shall not live in ihis fashion again with her.”
■vi.: - it you premise to many her we will
letyouoff.’’ D. (promptly): •* Iwilt.” M.: “ Web, if
you will bring the certificate to my office showing
that you have got married, I will give you a
weeding present ” After this singular courtship
we trust that Mr. Dutton will find no occasion to
retain his bride's affection by means similar to
those adopted to secure her maiden troth.
At a Timaru (N.Z.) boarding school break-
up, the Rev. Mr. Turnbull iectuied to an audience
of girls on a subject about which they had proba-
bly forgotten more than he ever knew. The Rev.
Sir Oracle observed“ Do not confine yourselves
too much, dtah young ladies, to the drawing-room
or the pianon, or fine crotchet-work, or crystc-
leum, or the like, but take an earnest part in the
duties of the household. The Scriptures teJl us
that Rebeccuh, although a young laoy of rank and
wealto, did not stay indoors soundiDg the timbrel,
or whatevah musical Instrument was in fashion in
Mesopotamiah, but was in the habit of going
to lhe well to draw the watah wanted
for her fathah's flocks and camels, and it
was whilst so employed that she met with
her future husband, who was the most
eligible young man in all the land.” Like
Tennyson'B heroine, tbegirls “spoke never a woid
ncr wept,” just then, but next day one of the in-
dignant maids wrote to tha local paper and went
for the reverend one in this way— ‘ 1 would re-
spec; fully remind our woitby Rev. Mr. Turnbull
tnat there are 500 girls in this town who would
willingly draw water for camels, or a iv other
beasts, and get up quite as ea ly as Rebecca
used, providing they could find another Isaac at
the pump as she cid. We consider Bathuel’s big
girl was very highly favoured in having such a
model tusband providtd lor Her. Iu these days
we have to use the best means at our command to
attract, and yet, even though we are ready to
do ail things, from playing Chopin down to coop-
ping wood, still, many of us get left, and fail to
secure a husband of any kind whatever. Read
Apelles to the Cobbler— “Ne sutor ultra
crepidam ’’—Laura T.
Now that society Is everywhere en-
deavouring to ciseuver new spheres for female
industry, it is rather discourag ng to be fold by
the N.S, W. Postmaster-General that the practice
of employing females as operators in the Tele-
graph Department has been discontinued, Mr.
Superintendent Craekutll most ungailantly de-
claring that ladies are not suited for the business.
t seems to us only toe other day, as it were, when
Sir Saul Samuel, then ex-P.ffG, Mr. Minister
Burns, P.M G , and this same Mr. Cracknel!, were
killing eae-h other over the quegtiop of 'who wap
the most deserving of the three to lay plaint'fo
tbe honor of being the first to introduce ladies
into the service. As operators in the head-office
at Sydney they were most decided failures, but
then so are many of the male operators also. The
Wheatstone automatic system was tried at the
same time, the ladies being employed as
“punchers,” and so carefully did they mtss up
the business that the Victorian Parliament passed
a motion imploring the N.S.W. Government to
call off its girls at once, or the whole of the
Cabbage Garden would speedily Le trans-
formed into one gigantic lunaiio asylum.
Accordingly, the “ Wheal stone s ” weie rele-
gated to ihe cel’ar, alter sumetbiog like
£6OOO had been wasted on the fad, §,nd the tajr
■ punchers ” were initiated intp tlie mysteries of
the Morse machine. In ibis line tuey were more
successful, and it is not correct to fay that females
are ULSuiied for managing small suburban or
country stations. Taking one example at hap-
hazard, we may mention that the telegraph mis-
cress at Rand wick has been working irom 12 to 14
Hours a day for some considerable time past, and
during her seven years service has conducted her
office in a way which many of our male tele-
g.aphists would do well to copy. Surely Mr,
does not dare say that ladies like this
are unsuited for the business? 'ihe greatest
objection that can be raised is that girls will man y
(four out of the six original eleitras married
gentlemtn. in tee service), aid, as a matter of
course, the services ofoa “relieving officer ” are
required with painful punctuality, in these
cays of assisted immigration this is but
a venial fault, however, and we require
something lar more grievous b.nore we acknow-
ledge that ladies arc unsound for tbe telegraph
vuy more than for tbe sewing-machine.
A cheering cordial for the dtepondent.
Wolfe's Schnapps,
Mb. Ob ooubot Bbowni (late Deputy
Jhairman of the Mining Board of New Sou'll
IVaiesi, Author of the “Miners’ Hand; Book,”
“aiming Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Arbitrator, Adviser,
lad Mining Titles Agent, Beresford Chambers,
53 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps.— lt has often been
pirated, but never had a rival,


THIS WICKED WORLD.
X young lady was recently wanted by the
Milparinka police. She was discovered disguised
as an old woman. What a lot of old women dis-
guised as girls are still at large.... Hon. W. Miles
says North Queenslanders are “ mad ” for separa-
tion. The Duke of Manchester favours the move-
ment. Rum.... Bishop Barry “contemplates” re-
signing the See of Sydney. Um—More Moorhouse
The Sydney Water-Famine.
F~/R ,5 T hfATpfi Co/*f/Yfj 5 5.' 0/Ft? R T JAW ft/c/Z
1/AfRE ASOfUABLE p£o PL £AS FOL-LCSARF - //erf pFE OR//Fq fro
&/V0 OF STATE ATo W/rP/F / M/i.£ SOF T/VE/tf FFRy
Poor S AFP /Fojv Tp/ETy are CRyz/uc, OUT Fo R A
pump ' "
I r >5 CfftKTir/'** To K# o "' \
7*HAT Trftf Bo TA*y 2/AW
/j Poti 77/ere /j /vo r**rf=&f
Pc/MP 7b 7A/cE tr TO C fr 7- & uT
-rtf A T /s A MERE DETA/L
‘y/rs.jrtD/ryot/
Cjr/y'S' '£< »f /-? V&ATP 7~//£~y /*'/£/. //ohtl
J3oft-£K AASO EArso J|4j 7V 2?f?/iSE /[fifth J,
Ji/sr £/*£ /W/
S/rs & pol pt*</$' Me (eifp
T t/AV'£‘ JSoVCftfT yoi7 A 3£Au-
T/r(/L SPo,VCj£ For
yac/R Bath '
///sstr# rw'/re/v'tf/s
ci £?A/ctf£Z7 ’Wy Do
% you rAU/UTMS br/Tt/T/Sf
Hot*L O w MOC££TO/~/} SPcr/U<j£
/rtffA' 77/j?/?£:/$ %^or-
I &/uo Cff ff trxrr# //v
all 77//$ Cjry TO
AV£~T / T / ”
‘//a i c.o f J3Po^> r fOTA Bad rf **°*J M//v£ „ fa/X
ZRu««- OMIYADODf: ArH£ -h.\
CfAL t*£ Fac-T THAT T **'
a «d you. rsee "*** THAT
Mutt CoL>-»*j
7^>
,rf(
w
-CWOVH'O TZSSOR Tones'
AH'# TVtffSEl) r//£ vSAT£R crF JVST AS T 3A 77^
;4XW^ZV‘"" r T l
•r/v? rAir/rf,
y.' /Y#
r Wr jvaj// / ,,
WtfA t 2>o I oryM
harbor Af/>.A«i > yv//y t r/jsß'fi yob#
Crnztvo ///}#£ 7F£/)60#roBB #Rot/_P
or 7Y/B /y#rßor - o/vr/, ? TV//RR
you Z>o /r uv#£/s yDAfRScr
CorrßßD or/r
\Fi*ar Bl Ob r/6<3c/>/ a/a/v
Bf? o TrtEE J//A L L W£ (f O f/Y fSEX E
Atfb TAkE A ?
2 / * rp £/rro - W/tt. . My /VES EiS -
jTTy, /Vp T Af/ laS/ue Co/VS EAST'S '
FoH(f£T7-/A / <f ///MSS/-*
//£ hare/tev ///s tortf/sTy.
JJ U 7 23 £/A/ ty A£/ T OA~ A C//S/yf/3 T
tf£T WA $ ABL.E' To fTTTARATS.
77V/T rtro Co/YfT/ A(fAff/
ATT&/? /Vo £/k<7 <7/C T/?0(/S /-£
z //A fr/?/C /
fl/v3apy
*7 Tr s J Po/^r
Or r Sf R /J Ti/RrfEj
u a .., ANDyot
//AWT DatAEP O'Coi/mt
taotios “ What is the name of that new waltz
of ’s, dear ?” “ Oh, what do you suppose it is ?
The Carlngton. of course.”....A child, two years’
old, was drowned in a tub, containing water, at
M-cdm a*dt,own. (f the tub had not contained
water >t is prob b'e the child would not h*ve hi-en
dm n<wi .... at - remedy for a co d ae -ffi i...j
A topaz, 4th. weight D being shown at the ftlxhi-
bitlon Building in Melbourne. It was found in a
Tasmanian tin mine, and is said to be the largest
in the world— >Ve have grown some great men
here lately—Howard Spenseley, Sam. Wilson,
Heaton, Dailey, and Dan. O’Connor, the last tie*
iceud&ut of cue &uo ms Who mj aext ?
Alf. Bennett, of course.... Mt. Gambler people
propose to shortly erect a monument to the me-
mory of Lindsay Gordon. The poet is buried in
the Brighton Cemetery, Melbourne Dr. Garran
has been pensioned off the S.M. Herald. A good
man gone. Bome of his colleagues should have
pen-shunned lang syne.
* * *
President Cleveland (U. 8.), has a horror of
Mormonism. And yet he hasn’t even ©ne wife
Singular he should hate them in the plural....
Jenny Lind owns up to 85 years. No living
operatic artist challenges her on this vantage
point.... The first man mentioned as beieg buried
in a coffin was Joseph, who resisted the bland,
ishments of Potiphar’s wife. He was previously
buried in a pit by his brethren.... John Bright
considers the present political situation in
u-ng ish the most critical since 1833 Young
men rr m the country vi itffig N»w York with
weil-onea p ckets hire professional pugilists to
protect th.-m when viewing the sights of the city
-f.J” “mice di» that in other cities- sometimes ..
iheodore Parker says K, gland is the paradise of
;" e r!Ch > the purgatory of the wise, and the hell of
the poor — The Irish Nationalists in America are
about to erect a monument to Pat O’Donnell in
uiasnevin Cemetery, Dublin. O’Donnell was
hanged m London for shooting Oarey, informer
ia the Phcsna Pari? murder
O’Brien, editor of United Ireland, sent a
cheque for £1035 at Christmas time for distribution
among the poor of Mallo sv. This is the surplus of
the amount presented to him to cover the ex-
penses of the trials with whioh his name Is asso-
ciated. .. Suicide, murder, and sudden death seem
to have been the leading features of Christmas in
England. One lamentable accident resulted In the
death of two of the nieces of the late Admiral
Pitz Roy. They had just finished dressing for a
bail, when a flaring candle ignited the dress of the
elder, and both became enveloped in the flames.
The younger girl died on Christmas morniag.
When a light dress catches fire In this way It la of
no use to wrap the wearer in ruga to extinguish
the flames. The only plan is to tear the dress down
from the shoulders Oscar Wilde, the erst pro-
fessional long-hair idiot, persists in keeping his
poll closely cropped now. People are beginning
to e-ms Mer him almost sensible, so of course he 1s
losing fame ...This is what a recently made
widow of 60 odd said when she was trying on her
new h ad gear:—“ There is only one fault I have
to find with these caps They're too becoming
they really are. I don’t think 1 ought to wear one.
If I do, some man Is sure to Insist upon having
me, and I haven’t the slightest intention of marry-
ing again at present, you know.” Please notice
the “ at present.” It would probably cover quite
34. hours, or possibly even a week.... P. T. Barnum,
tbe showman, of wed to complete the esonvation
of Pompeii within two years, on condition that
he was allowed to exhibit any article of excep-
tional interest through the States, The Italian
Government was not 0n... ;Trust a woman to get
round a difficulty. An antique and angular speci-
men of the female species went into a bookseller’s
to get a novel of the mofe spicy than choice kind,
and this is how she asked the man for it— *‘ I want,
please, an interesting novel of the kind that er--
well the kind that that wouldn't he exactly suitable
for a young girl to read ” “Oh. oartatnly,” said the
man; “ Miss Jones, get me a French novel for a
ladF of 35 ’ The order w*s meant to be sotto voce,
but although the customer heard it, there was a
look of illimitable expectation in in* eyes as she
sailed out triumphantly with her prize....“ Didn’t
bring any money this trip, didn’t yer,” said a
Californian bushranger to an exulting passenger,
“ then I guess I 11 have to pass > er through * dead-
head.’” And ten seconds later a revolver-bullet
was sent to look ior that passe nver s brains It
f und some.... fae value of rateable prooertyin
London has riseu from £37 544 000 to £30,370,000
during toe last five years. This set ms a very
small total, Why, when a 10 mite railway is
started through the virgin forest or N i.W the
claims by landowners for compensation often foot
up to more than that.
Wolfe's Schnapps the only genuine brand
of Sohnappsla t&e world, Beware of imitation#


BY FLOOD AND FIELD. flood and field .
« ffltn otion is scratched for the V.R.O. 1
ChamPk* 1, There will be a commotion there all
the same- * * *
match— N.S.W. Press y. Parliament—
hollow thiDg r > Parliament won the t- ss,
P rOV A d o the wickets, kept the Pressmen running
w / at hall all day, and then, when the local
tfWf.SS went in to bat, put them out in waltz
juuiuse match. Parliament, 303; Press,
fflUßEUwitowi.
rv Rj. Malone’s challenge to run any man
world has toean replied to by J. Gibson, of
io who offers the Australian £lOO expenses
ffflnan/race from 100 to 150 yards at Chicago.
t° r PP m a aide. This is about live weeks stale, yet
a riatelthe great sprinter has been as silent as a
shipf’’ He ought to have confidence.
1 -for it was only the other day he returned
t3o ’with the glory of having won the Kicku-
C nnfeoobS Handicap. We think it ought to be a
r 0 Aching as Malone will certainly have a show
S on the make” nearly all the time. The
oY’s 6 ought to be enough, unless T. M. is going to
e ?Sa°nnt, for a Dutch gallaote for hin self and
Se d , manned entirely by Professor Jacksons,
s ® ■
Like father, like son. Young Charlie
p vans aged 11 years, a son of our “ Ted. ’made
his debut as a cricketer in a match played between
two Penrith clubs-the Kenilworth and Pember-
ton-a few days ago. As soon as young Charlie
was sent in to bat, the Pemberton captain declined
m go on with the game, as he didn't care to lower
his dignity by playing with boys. He was told
that though a boy in age the youngster was a man
in the cricket-field, and this proved true-the lad
contributed 8, not out, and dropped the Pember-
ton hencoops in a style that proved him to be a
true chip of the old block.
6 ■ *
“A champion totalisator dividend was
mirl at Napier, N.Z , recently, where one investor
on a hack race received a return of £306 for £l.
This is the largest dividend paid since the intro-
duction of the totalisator.” So writes an evening
contemporary, and while we would not willingly
he accused of hasty condemnation of misleading
nnragraDhs, we must call the attention of our
contemporary to the fact that in 1881 a dividend
of something over £9OO was paid on D.O.D. at the
totalisator office in Adelaide. The circumstances
of the case were, however, peculiar. D.O.D. s
number appeared with the rest of the field, and a
nouni was placed on it by a fancier. While show-
ing the number 1 as invested on him, the clerk
allowed the horse’s number to slip out of sight,
and the publie supposing him to be scratched,
backed other fancies. D.O.D. romped borne, and
his lucky backer drew the total investment on
the race.
Tom Malone and Foley are likely to meet
in the ring. Not on the fight, you know, but on
the travel. Foley says if Malone will put on a
pair of boxing-gloves, he will undertake to catch
kim in a 24ft. ring. This is probably the first time
such a contest has been suggested, and the ksue
of such a meetlDg would be very doubtful. Tom
could no doubt get away, but Foley’s knowledge
of ring tactics would likely help him to win.
• 0*
The business push which characterises
Sydney people was prominently noticeable last
week, when we were shown a card sent by a local
undertaker to Foley and his coadjutor, Cansdell, at
the gymnasium, setting forth the charges for vari-
ous interments, and soliciting the patronage of
the athletes. Perhaps, in view of the number of
challenges at present afloat, the undertaker thinks
a monopoly of athletic undertaking would be
valuable.
* * *
The Prince Alfred Yacht Club first-class
race on Saturday last resolved itself into a match
between Mr. Milson’s Waitangi and Mr. Fitz-
hardinge’s Electra, the former conceding 6min. to
Mr. Fitzhardinge’s yawl. It was originally in-
tended to sail an outside course, but as the sea
proved too heavy to moor a boat off Curl Curl, it
was decided to substitute the Manly course. Mr.
Reks was in charge of the Electra; and Mr.
"Pros” Williams, so well known as a successful
open-boat sailor, handled the Waitangi. The
Electra was “ never In it.” and was beaten by Bmin.,
in addition to the 6mln. handicap. It is rather a
new experience to see the name of Fitzhardinge
bringing up the rear so consistently, and until the
yawl is altered In her rig Mr. Fitzhardinge cannot
hope to occupy any other place, for no handicap
in reason can bring the yachts together at the
finish of a race over the outside course.
* * *
On behalf of the fishermen of Port Jack-
son and Botany we appeal to the Pyrmont Re-
gatta Committee to place on their programme a
race for the toilers of the sea. The Admiral, Wild
George, and others are worthy of recognition, and
the race might well take the place of the “ mixed”
race. We do not wish to be considered “damp
blankets,” but, to our thinking, a racing boat is
no place for the gentler sex, even though the con-
test is confiued to pleasure suits. Some fair.one
will “ hang out ” too far some day in a blow, and
come to grief.
# # *
A “good sort ” of sportsman was William
Lowe, the unfortunate wno was “ found dead ” in
a Sydney suburb the other day. Lowe at one time
owned Lord Orville, Speculation, and Solicitor,
but he never made much at the game, and It was
not until Lord Orville felt into Kelso’s hands tbat
the horse showed the stuff he was made of. K»lso
won Tattersatl’s Cup and Handicap in one day
with Lord Orville, young Kelso, then known as
"The Dodger,” piloting him home in fast time.
* * *
The A.J.C. have advertised for a starter,
who will receive the fabulous sum of £l5O per
annum for his services, rt remains to be Been if
they can get a man to work “ square,” on such a
pittance. That they will get any number of appli-
cations for the post we doubt not. “A bit” to
nothing ontbe quiet from owners of favourites
would no doubt make up quite a decent screw, but
suspicious mortals such as the raoing public would
a shade sooner see the wealthy A.J.C. make the
billet worth keeping straight for.
* * *
Corporal Whistler, a younger brother of
Clarence Whistler, the wrestler who recently died
in Melbourne, was a member of the id-fated
Greely Arctic Expedition.
a- * »
Mr. A. Loder’s Orphan, winner of the
N J.C. and City Handicaps, at the recent Newcastle
races, was very appropriately named- When
handed the cup presented by J. H. White for the
first-named race, Mr. Loder said “ that he was
exceedingly pleased at hts win, as he had reared
and bred the winner. He had had great difficulty
with her, as her dam died when she was only three
days old, and consequently she had cost him a deal
of trouble and expense. It took tnree cows' milk
to rear her, and she became quite a pet,
o *
Messrs. Cox and Maitland, and Smith and
Darrell, of the Glebe Rowing Club, rowed off on
Saturday last to see which pair wan best qualified
to represent the club in the Junior Double Scull
race at the coming Pyrmont regatta. It was a
good race for a quarter of a mile, when Cox and
Maitland drew out a lead and won rather easily by
a couple of lengths.
* * *
New Bouth Wales’ outlook for the Inter-
colonial Eight-oar race is most promising. The
crew is a first-class one, Mr Merriman has borne
the expense of fitting up a practice boat, and the
Mercantile Club has donated £25 towards the ex-
pense of sending the crew to Melbourne. Mr. C.
Bro 3 has been elected captain and stroke of the
°rew, and Mr. George Brett has been chosen as
coach. So far as tuo latter selection is concerned
wo think a mistake has been made. George Brett
is the amateur oarsmen of a century, can fit up
a crew with any man, amateur or professional, in
the land, hut, good as he is, we doubt his ability to
row with and oiaoh an eight at one and the same
time.
* * *
An American journal, which “ skited ” to
a disgusting' extent about Haalan when the Cana-
dian was in the zenith of his glory, has now dis-
covered that Hanlan, though possessed of a good
turn of speed, was never a game oarsman, in m
more strokes, says this weathercock writer,
Trickett would have rowed him down on uhe
Thames, and in his last race with Teemer he was
thoroughly cowed before a quarter of a mile had
been covered. When John L. Sullivan is bea.en
the Yankees will, no doubt, plek bim to pieces in
the same manner, although they now laud him to
the skies.
» * *
On Wednesday evening the Gymnasium,
George-street, Sydney, was crowded to witness
some half-dozen merry turns-up Dooley s battle
with Wilson, which was to have been the item of
the evening, did not come off, Wilson being
absent. Lawson and Williams fougbt the four
liveliest rounds, in which the little darkey showed
the most foot—and band—though Williams fought
gamely right throi gh the battle. Smith and
Fuller followed, and the former got in some good
work, being very quick with his head and nands.
Bathgate, who is improving very much in the use
of his right hand, made a good fight with Nolan,
who, however, scored most points in a weli-
contested battle. The usual variations of the
programme were presented, including dumb-bell
swinging and singlestick exercise. On Saturday
evening the hall was again crowded, and as the
ring was pitched on the newly-erected stage, a
much better view of the sport was obtained.
There was some disappointment in the opening
items, as Bathgate, who should have met Liwsod,
was not to the fore. Cansdell gave an exhibition
of club swinging, after which Fuller and Anderson
sparred a merry three rounds, in which at the
finish the honours were easier than the hits. Atter
Lawson sparred a nice, showy fight with a friend,
Foley and Cansdell had a bout with the sticks, in
which the former warrior scored a win. Ihe
battle of the evening was between Dooley and
Nolan, four rounds, for a tenner, but Nolan was
satisfied very early in the game. In the opening
round the men fought warily, but Dooley getting
an opening led off with a heavy left hander, which
he followed quickly with the right, and dealt it
out so smartly that the rally ended with a knock
down. The second round was short though merrv,
and Nolan, who does not appear to be a glutton,
cried a crack, after the second visitation of the
long ’un’s left hand.
» * *
Bicycle men in the States have been fairly
slaughtering previous American records. A bicycle
race, 36 hours, between William M. Woodsideaud
T. W. Eck, undertaken mainly for the purpose of
beating record time at different distances, com-
menced at the Washington Roller-rink, Minne-
apolis, Minn., on an eight-lap track, December
at 8.15 p.m. Woodside’s machine came to grief,
and during the changing Eck got the lead and
rode 50 miles in 2b. 56m. 535., and 51 miles wee
put together by him in 3h. 495., which beat the
former record. Eck then temporarily retired, and
Woodside rode on, upsetting former records up to
and including 65 miles, ss follows: *53 miles, 3b.
6m. 545.; 53, 3b. 11m, 7s.;' 54, 3b. 15m. 165.; 55. 3h.
19m. 275.; 56,3 b. 23m. 335.; 57, 3b. 27m. 18s.; 58, 3h.
3lm. 215.; 59, 3h. 35m. 415.; 60, 3b. 39m. 435.; 61, 3a.
43m. 533.; 62, 3h. 48m, 5i.; 63, 3b. 52m. 205.; 64, 3b.
56m. 253.; 65, 4b. 12m. At this stage of tbe race he
was well ahead of the record, but stopped for a
few minutes, intending to go on and beat the 100-
mile figure, which he could easily have accom-
plished. His trainer made a mistake, however,
and did not call him, and the opportunity went
past. Seventy miles were covered in 4h. 38m. 3bs.
over six minutes behind former figures, and he did
not resume record-making ti l he had passed
Young’s limit, 257 miles, the farthest distance for
which any authentic record previously existed in
America for a consecutive hours race. Wood-
side rode 257 miles in 24h. 45m. 223., as against
Young’s 22n. 19m. 595. for the same distance, and
then he established the following new records:—
258 miles, 24h. 50m. 363.; 259 miles, 24b. 55m. 353.; 260
miles, 25b. 233.; 261 miles, 25b. 37m. 445.; 262 miles,
25h. 41m. 375.; 263 miles, 25h. 45m. 32j.; 264 miles,
25h. 50m. 155.; 265 miles, 25b. 54m. 32a.; 266 miles 880
yards, 25h. 59m. Bek stopped at miles.
* * *
Jack Burke and Mike Cleary met in a
genuine “ knock out,” at Chicago, on Bth Decem-
ber, when Burke proved the victor in Bmin. 30 ec
Both men weighed about list. lllb. At exactly 10
o’clock the men faced each other, sparred an
instant for an opening, and a moment later Cleary
went to grass from a terrific back-hander from
Burke’s left, which struck him square in the eye
and brought blood. The round finished with some
ineffectual attempts on Cleary s part to get in his
right on Burke’s face. The second round panned
out rather favourably for Cleary, who got in a
stinging counter with his left on Burke’s cheex.
He tapped him gently twice more, and the round
closed with some cautious sparring on both sides.
When the men stoed up for the third round
Burke’s pink and glowing skin showed in strange
contrast to the almost marble whiteness of Cleary’s
line face and physique. Burke’s whole aspect was
eloquent of vigour and confidence, yet Cleary,
pale and supple, looked well his match. Early in
this exciting bout Cleary got what later proved to
have been the blow that decided the contest.
Cleary forced the fighting at first, but Burke soon
crowded in on him impetuously, forced him
into his corner, hit him two rattling blows on his
face with his left, then parrying Cleary’s right
with his own right glove struck the New Yoraer
on the neck. Cleary staggered and seemed dazed
for a moment, then recovered himself with an
effort, and forced Burke desperately to the oppo-
site side of the ring It could be seen that Cleary
was breathing heavily, land shook slightly with
suppressed excitement; while Burke, perlectly
cool and collected, watched calmly for his chance.
It came, and quick aa a flash, his arm came round
and landed with terrific force on Cleary's jugular,
and he fell like a log. The blow caught him
fairly just beneath and behind his 13ft ear, and
knocked him senseless. “He’s killed him,” some
one muttered. The great crowd of spectators
were silent. Burke stepped up to his fallen adver-
sary, and, as Cleary did not move, but lay stretched
at full length, stooped over and shook him gently,
his face exhibiting genuine alarm. A little later
Cleary’s prostrate form showed signs of life, and
the crowd arose with wild cries of “ Burke I
Burke!” It seemed as though the platform
would be torn in pieces when the champion
climbed over the ropes and walked jauntily to his
dressing-room, every whit as steady as when he
came out. Cleary’s seconds picked him up and
assisted him to his room, where he revived in a
few minutes.’ After the contest the excitement
was intense, and Cleary stated that it was a chance
blow, “ one like I have landed many a time with
the same result.”
* * *
It is amusing the way the gladiators talk
fight and yet cannot come to terms. Lees, in Mel-
bourne, is offering all comers a “fiver” to face
him four rounds; Jackson will meet Lees, but not
in Melbourne; Dooley has an offer out to meet all
comers (bar Foley) In Sydney for £100; and Foley
and Newton are near to and yet so far from a
match. Of all these fighters Foley is the only
man who has shown ho means business, as his £5O
to bind the match with Newton is now in the
hands of J. D. Young. If the papers would insert
a challenge only upon the putting up of a sub-
stantial deposit we should have more fight and
less talk. Less talk, anyhow.
* * *
The Melbourne Club did well in not yield-
ing to the rush made by Harry Boyle's clique to
to have that player included in tbe Australian
Eleven. It is • a matter of opinion whether it
would not be advisable to send another man with
the team, more especially as “ the stuff ” is not
the sole consideration of the tour, but that man
should certainly be a batsman. If Macdonnell will
go, there should be no hesitation in including him.
The team is quite strong enough in the howling
department (Boyle’s only qualification). We can
dispense with the pictures tnis time, Harry.
• * *
The result of the Cup match between Sydney
University and Belvidere Cricket Clubs, in which
the latter soored a win by the first innings, shows
the absurdity of the rule laid down by the ground
committee, limiting the play to two naturdays,
and deciding the contest by the result of the first
innings in the event of the match not being
played out. That in this case the better team lost
there can be no doubt.
* * *
The Carltons and Warwicks start their
match for the Cup on Saturday, and probably the
beat game of the season will be the outcome, as
the teams are very evenly matched. As there is
not the ghost of a show of completing two innings
on two afternoons, the clubs should try and home
to some arrangement which would enable thorn
to play the game out.
* * *
The annual contest between Parliament
aud Press took place on the Domain on Monday
last, the orators giving the ink-slingers a very
bad time of it. The day’s play was pleasantly varied
by a very long’ adjouroment for lunch, when the
Vernon boys played.
It would seem that there is an epidemic
of husband-poisoning in Australia. The horrible
Maitland (N.S.W.) case is still fresh in the public
memory; a Victorian woman appears to have just
arsenieiaed her man, burnt his body, and appro-
printed his money; at Koma (Q ), the body or
Kobert Birkett, supposed to have been poisoned
by his wife in December, 1883, baa been exhumed.
Attempts were made to raise the coffin, but, being
rotten, they were unsuccessful, and the inexorable
law, in the person of Dr. Comyn, descended the
grave to secure the parts required by the analyst,
who, despite the long lapse of time, alter
all, succeed in circumstantially verifying the tale
of murder. Mrs. Birkett is publicly accused of
having had a hand in another attempt at murder.
It is plain that State regulations as to the sale of
poisons, more especially the volatile poisons, can-
not be made too stringent.
One result of the late Russian scare was
the establishment in N.S.W. of a iot of Volunteer
Reserve Corps. Some of them attended the apo-
theosis of Plain Bill, the Soudan medal distribu-
tion, last Saturday, in their martiaL attire and—
went home to resign. The crowd, not appreciating
the promptings which devoted them to
made cruel fun of their slop-made uniforms and
ridiculous equipments. Not content with doling
them out clothes which gave them the appear-
ance of undertakers’ men after a heavy drunk, the
“authorities” had not even taken the trouble to
adjust the clothes to the wearers. Men of sft. 6in.
marched past in uniforms that would have fitted
John Lucas; tall, portly men strutted in suits
which would have well become a slim telegraph
boy They carried antiquated, brass-mounted,
muzzie-loadiDg rifles, and wore rusiy-looking
belts apparently of pre-Crimean date. No wonder
the crowd roared, but —oh, yes, happy thought:
Unvarnished William must have suggested the
joke to turn the ridicule aside from the gallant
Goat and Donkey Brigade and the idiots who con-
ceived the fizzle.
From an Auckland paper (Sir Alexander
called at Auckland on nis way to England):—
“What an extraordihary-looking man this Sir
Alex. Stuart isl Looking at him, no one would
ever dream that he was a man who had attained
to political or any other desirable eminence. We
have one or two very rough-looking diamonds in
our own legislature, but the ugliest of them is a
marvel of beautv compared witn the ex-Premier
of New South Wales Were I a resident of that
country l should certainly be deeply grieved that
the eoloDy was not represented by a politician
who looked like a member of the human species.”
There, that s from New Zealand. Only wait till
the States are reached, and our American e«-
changes And our that Sir Mick is getting £lOO a
month to stop away from the colony.
We are extremely sorry to hear, on the
authority of a Sunday paper, that Mrs. Mary
«ladstane (Mrs. L. M. Bayl ss), whom old-time
play era will remember as a highly talented actress,
is in Sydney, in want.
The North Australian announces the
marriage of Mr. Joiiy (JoHy and Luxton) with
Miss Gay, daughter of Captain Gay. If there is
anything in names, this union should be a happy
one. The harp.—
Oh, happy day, that sunpy day.
When Jolly wed the fair Miss Gay;
We kiss the bride, in fancy say
We hope you’ll aye be Jolly, Gay.
A young couple were to have been mar-
ried in Cooktown (Q.) lately, but the match
was broken off througd a difference of opinion re
the furniture provided. He wanted to purchase a
cradle, and she insisted that they should Avait until
they got something in Cooktown. This seems
something very much like “ counting the
chickens,” &c.
Something About Skin Diseases.
What cures of blood and skin diseases, and scalp
affections with loss of hair, can compare with
those of the Hon. Wm. Taylor, Boston, State
Senator of Massachusetts; H. E. Carpent r, Hen-
derson, N. Y ; Alderman Tucker, Boston; Will,
McDonald, 3542 Dearborn Street, Chicago; F. H.
Drake, Esq., Detroit, and many others from in-
fancy to old age, details of which may be found in
future editions of this paper, and all of whioh
were Dr< mptly and permanently cured by the
CimcußA KEMBDIES? We will leave it to the
editor of this paper to say whether stronger
testimony has ever been published in favour of
any other medicine.
Why will people dose themselves with
medicine when they have Wolfe’s Schnapps?
Boyd and King call attention in another
page to the fact that the last special trip in con-
nection with the sale of their Model Harms at
Gosford will take place on Saturday next. Per-
sons who have not yet visited the spot should take
the opportunity of combining a very pleasant trip
with the prospect of making a profitable invest-
ment. *
It is a good thing to keep a bottle of Wolfe’s
Schnapps in the house.
GOMPA6NONI CATERING CD., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE oldest and leading Catering Establishment In N.S.W. Caterers to His Worship the Mayor,
Municipal Council of Sydney, the A.J.C., City Clubj&c., <kc.
The Dining Saloons for Ladies and Gentlemen are the Finest, Coollest, and loftiest in the oolony.
FIRST-CLASS MENU DAILY. Private Bar—Good Wine List.
ter GRILL ROOM now open. A Grill can be had at any time from 8 a.m. to 9 p.m. Select your
own steak, &c„ and see it grilled in the room. This is one of the acquisitions or theoity, end a long-
felt want. Inspection invited. «* • "• YOU, manager.
ON THE
Brlclcifield. Hill.
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Free oe Charge.
/e
C 0
o
FO
uO
WV
y
nursing and Riding Stays.
Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPOON BUSKS),
2s. lid., 3s. 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4s. lid., ss. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., 9s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12s 6d
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS, 666 and 668 Brickfield Hid
N.B.— Orders from the Country will re wive immediate and cmrefuH attention.


Political
Points
Many definitions have been given of the
height of impudence, Mr Dibcs pressing ih©
N.S. W, Colonial Treesurer for a statemem of his
plan to wipe off the deficit can bold its head up in
aDy company.
ANOTHER POEM BY BURNS.
The money where is it ?—to meet that deficit ?
Oh, tell me some method those "dibbs” to obtain,
Quite plain and explicit, so no one will miss it
JButalasl Wales's visit will break us again,
“We want political honesty now more
than anything else,” said Tom Garrett last week
when attacking Sir Henry Parkes. Of course,
Tom, that’s just what several of you want. It is
not stated whether Mr. Baker came In with his
melancholy “ Here I here 1”
An English paper, not usually given to the
publication of sensational news, predicts a war
between the Kaiser and the White Czar In the en-
suing spring. Of course, something must be done
to divert the attention of the Socialists and
Nihilists. Besides, such a war would kill a lot of
them off.
Mr. W. H. L, Bailey, editor of a Sydney
Sunday pap nr. is the happy recipient of a writ,
claiming £lO 000 damages for alleged libel of Mr.
W. Ferguson, M.L.A. Looking at the figure
stated, we are inclined to think that the member
over-estimates the injury suffered, and also the
ability of the editor to atone for his misdeeds.
Dr. Ross, M.L.A., wants to know what
Government intends doing to prevent Sydney cab
horses from slippiag in wet weather. It is cruel
to put the question when lha Government is
slipping itself. There are many ways or meeting
the difficulty Pei hips the nest would bs to keep
the horses at home till the weather cleared up.
Yells the Australasian : —“ How are new
townships to be formed, or old ones extended,
except tne Crown s lis the iand? The leasing
system may do for farms, but it won't answer in
towns.” This, in the face of the fact that some of
the finest buildings in English and American cities
are erected on leased lauds, shows how thoroughly
the Australasian young man has mastered the
subject.
Mr. W. Clarke, M.L.A., of N.S.W., con-
siders a property tax ‘the most monstrous pro-
posal to raise revenue that ins ever been pro-
pounded in aDy legislature in tne world.” Iu his
eyes it is monstrous to deduct £5O a year from the
income of him who derives £lO,OllO a year in rents
owing to the increase in iaua values, due to
pressure of population. So it is in ours—monstrous
that £5OOO a year instead of £;0 is not impounded.
We see that our beau sabreur of a Com-
gets a hundred a month for ex’s.
That’s just the sum Alfred paid his Commissioner
who went round the world in several days, lhe
amount, however, is not likely to be “ 100 much
glory ” lor Sir Alexander I We see, too, that young
GuBsy’s salary, with £1 sj. a day for travelling ex-
penses, amounts to over a thousand a year! Sul-
phur! There’s one thing, though, about Dibbs’
crowd—when they did undertake to send a man
along they did it, “ whoever suffered.”
The Melbourne Argus says of the English
political situation:—“A strong coalition of Con-
servatives. Churchmen, and Moderate Liberals is
what the Empire has most to hope for, and what
the situation may yet bring forth.” Tories,
Churchmen, and Moderate Liberals— CoiD, Canr,
and Cowardice. These be the things that are to
save the Empire! The Argus, we have lately
observed, is becoming quite a pious paper, and
trying to out-Joev the local D.T., the orgaa ef
Holy Jorydom. Verily a oeath-bed repentance.
TO SIR PATRICK JENNINGS
(OF THE FOURTH PARTY.)
Sir Pat, we own up straight you are
A lot of things we’d like to be;
Superior to most by far
Who legislate, these days, with thee;
But here the trouble comes ftis rough:
For troubles seldom come alon .)
Ot backbone some have not en ugh,
While you have miies too much—backbone.
That august personage, Sir George Strahan*
the Tasmanian Governor, was so incensed by the
"its.fierce ” of Mr. Service, the President of the
Federal Council, in reading an inaugural adoress
before the Council had been formally opened by
His RxceJLncy, that he peremptorily declined to
attend ;the Council’s sittings. He was waited on
by Mi ssrs. Douglas and Dodds, two members of.
the looai Ministry, who wagged their jaws for two
hours and a half ere they c uld induce the
"Queen’s representative ” to attend the po w-wow
Sir Henry Parke?, at Mr. Wise’s lecture,
stated that 75 000 peisms left Victoria in 1881'
against 53CQCf who entered, A Vieto i*n corre-
spondent bus w |cten to obserye that IjO 00Q ot the
75 000 left for tue cemetery, and a portion of the
balance were played-out politicians who had
sought admission to Victorian benevolent asylums,
but tailing to he returned male their way across
the border and re-entered Parliament as their only
refuge trom destitution. We are glad our corre-
spondent admits that none of the Jive peop.e
found their way across the Murray. He does not
remark upon the destination of the dead ones.
“ The absentee tax is the invention of the
jaundiced eye and the soured mind,” is the Aus-
tralasian s opioioo. That a person residing in
Londou and Wadmg througa seas ot mud in order
to leaoh a trumpery title suouio he ob iged to pay
a trifje out of his immense income towards toe
revenue of tho country that stupidly allows him
to live on the labours of ethers is gall to this ultra-
Tory orgaD. it is wnen reading suen swill that we
long for the speedy arrival of the time—now well
on the road—when those whose happiness appears
to depend on the amount of want around them
will have to pay f or their pleasure a price that will
astonish them.
“ February 7: Mary Evans, barque, from
Port Adelaide; 05 tons scrap iron.” That’s an
announcement made in the *• Imports ” column of
a morning paper, and is worth notice. New
Zealand has a flourishing young iron works at
OnehuDga making iron from native ores; the
Victorian Government has lately encouraged the
establishment of a Eew rolling-mills, by guaran-
teeing to take a certain number of tons ot pars,
&c , every year, and we , well, the other day,
a deputation came from the IssbanK Iron Works
to protest against an increase oi railway freight
from B*. a ton to Sydney to over £2 a ton. Oh,
yes I we are an enterprising people, we are
tbe sittings of the Federal Council
a ’cipher message received by the Tasmanian
Governor, and naviug to do with part of tbe
business in hand, ioui d its way into tne columns
of the Hobart Mercury before it was communi-
cated to the Council, f’ue President called atten-
tion to tne subject, and stated that the message
had not been forwarded to the Press by himself.
No explanation has yet been given as to how the
telegram found its way into the Mercury, but
the fact is that Mr. Treasurer Burgess happened
to make the remark in the presence of some re-
porters that he believed the Governor had re-
oeived a cypher message, the tenor of which was,
i&c.,&0.,&c. A “ chiel amang them ” took notes,
and the murder was out. Of course the other
papers represented at the Council were wroth at
the Mercury getting such information.
At the dinner given by the Tasmanian
Ministry to the members of the Federal Council
at Hobart recently, the toast of the Army and
Navy was omitted. After the remarks of Mr.
Douglas, the Democratic and plaia-speakiDg Tas-
manian Premier, as to the ultimate outcome of
f ederation and his previous expressions of opinion
as to the unwisdom of expending money on the
defences of Tasmania, the omission may be
easily accounted for. As representatives of the
Army and Navy—in the persons of Colonel Legge
and tie captains of the men of war lying in the
harbour—were present at the banquet, the omis-
*i >n of the toast cannot be regarded as an over-
sight.
in the name of the prophet—figs ! An
English paper reports tti t. driving tbro gh Wind-
sor a few weeks ago, the Queen observed a cab-
horse fall down On learning that the animal had
made its last journey, “ner Majesty caused an
intimation to be conveyed to the lamenting owner
that he should be presented with another horse
from the Royal stables.” Why, outside the Bee-
hive, at Sandhurst (Vic.), we've seeaa teamgter’s
her e fail dead, and before it could be got out of
the read a collection among the brokers caused
the owner to nait his team at the same place every
day ior a month on the off-chance of another
boast’s taking the blind staggers. How much did
her Majesty give to the Indian and Irish famine
funds ?
Sooner than be a British workman, Hux-
ley says that he’d prefer being a South Sea
Islander, any day. We believe him. But a man
like that would cause trouble anywhere. On an
equatorial coral rock of an acre’s extent this
iconoclastic professor might content himself—at
least until a missionary schooner appeared in the
oiling, when the prospect of having a Bible pre-
sented to him would arouse his worst passions.
But at Tonga you’d find him skipping about with
the head of the Wesleyan Church on a pole, while
in New Guinea he’d be discovered with a rechauffi
of German boatswain on the sideboard. Yes, he’d
better remain in England. The Southern hemi-
sphere has quite enough people like him on hand
already.
Another clergyman has been sending up a
soulful plea for the general election pending In
Victoria. He is the Rev. Mr. Lawrence, and he
wants holy men in the House. "In voting, people
should have regard to a man’s moral character,
and should vote regardless of his political creed.”
That’s passing good for a parson, say an unctuous
rauter of religious family comes forward support-
ing a wholesale Feetrade scheme, and he ia op-
posed by a sceptical sinner, whose father was
hanged, and who runs on the Protection racket—
you must plump lor the saved one, though you
love Protection like a brother. Politics are ot no
count in Parliament What the nation is really
sickening for are men who pay their pew-rent and
are spotless as the snow.
Reynolds’ Newspaper, which has a larger
circulation than any other journal in the world
and which contains the most forcible and fearless
articles tUat have, perhaps, ever appeared in a
newspaper, quotes with Its own endorsement a
recent article from The Bulletin, protesting
against the appointment of oroken-down diplo-
mats and favourites, whose lives have
been passed in despotically-ruled countri s, as
Governors of these colonies. “This,” says Rey-
nolds, ” is robust common sense, and in this way i
at nearfc the toiling population of England think
to a man.” We have never before ventured to
comment upon such compliments as this, but we
depart from the rule in the present instance to
show that even in England the force of our
articles is acknowledged by men who are in the
highest sense capable critics of argument and
literary expression. The judgment of our Aus-
tralian readers is endorsed in the world of thought
in England.
Just at present one district of N.B.W.
appears to be on the eve of a civil war, the casus
belli being the extension of the railroad to Bur-
ro wa. Galong, Binalong, and Bowning, are each
fully impressed with the idea that the proper
route is through their respective graveyards, but
as the fine has been already surveyed from the
firmer placs (famous in history as the home of
the great O’Nagie Ryan), it seems to have the
bulge on its rivals just at present. The Minister
for Works having been informed that this route
is far longer and more difficult to run than that
of Bowning, has stopped the works, however—a
proceeding which may lead to his wearing a
swelled head wnen the Galong champion Slattery,
M.L.A. returns. Whether a railway should go to
Burrowa at all is a matter of some doubt, as those
who know predict thadt will not return enough
to grease the carriage wheels. It is said that two
carriers have been aole to do all the trad between
Binalong and Burrowa for several years past,
and one of these is so ‘‘ full ” of the game now,
that he is willing to sell out for £lO. And yet this
is the place that is howling mad to have a railway.
From the Macleay Arhus :—“ Everyone
with the slightest knowledge of public affairs is
acquainted with the fact that Mr. K. Burdett
Smith, to give him his full title, is the laughing
stock of tne House, and his prosy platitudes and
Turveydrop style serve ouiy to amuse the mem-
bers. He has as much real influence in the House
as King Billy ot the Cloucurry has over the
destinies of the Christian religion.” This is very
c»uel. But not so much so as the final blast of
this village critic, for after alluding to articles
deprec ttory of Mr. Dangar which have appeared
in Sydney dailies, and which are alleged to have
been designed to influence the Elections and
Qualifications Committee, the village critic
savagely out majesticaliy observes:—“Mr. Smith,
if he had a spark of manliness ia his composition
would retrain from this miserable crying and
snivelling aui calmly await the decision of the
tribunal to which his case has been referred.”
This is rough on the Beautiful Burdett, but even
if we were to believe that his rugged manliness
had departed we would still be happy in knowing
that lrs loveliness will ever remain so long as there
is a pair of curiing tongs in the land.
The mud-slingiag sitting of the N.S W.
Assembly last week elicited the welcome informa-
tion that Sir Henry Parkes and January Davits
are not able or inclined to work together. The
one fear of the supporters of Sir Henry was that
his acceptance of office would involve accession ot
influence to the Orange and cold-waier bigots.
His wretched alliance .with the Davies, Roseby,
Lloyd, and Henson crowd burst up Sir Henry s
po*er once before, and a similar alliance would
ruin him now. The incidents leading up to tne
present rupture are in ketpiog witd the known
habits of the sinuous John. Sir Heury jocularly
asked him the reason of his sudden support of a
Ministry he had been previously opposing. Sir
John then annauoced to the House that Sir Henry
had tried to engineer a Government supporter.
There is a link wanting to complete—it is not
known who ingeniously perverted and distorted a
jocular remark into a subtle attempt to secure the
secession of a Government supporter. If John
Davies did not do this, he should assert the fact,
for in absence of evidence to the contrary strong
suspicion will rest upon him. John was careful to
explain that he has “nothing to expect from Sir
Henry, bo the severance of the friendship is of
little moment to him.” The inference is that John
only maintains political friendships with those
from whom ae has something to expect.
linitaiions of the genuine Wolfe's
Schnapps are more or less adulterated fiery com-
pounds. Therefore shun them.
Clergymen, Lawyers. Editors, Bankers and
Ladies need American Hop Bitters daily, for nerve
force. Read
Notioe!— Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Hockings, 143 Pitt-street.
The gates of all the marts of the world are
open to Wolfe’s Schnapps, beoause it is the
purest spirit known.
sm
A Derangement of the Liver
THE CAUSE OF DISEASE
IN THE
STOMACH,
KIDNEYS
—AND—
STSTEM.
Below will be found a brief summary of a Leoture upon the Liver, delivered before
the Electrio College of Medicine, by y
DR. J. HAYDOCK,
The Liver has been known as the great blood-maker and blood-purifier of the Circulation IVnm
icM'fe ? nd spongy structure it plays a most important part in the animal economy, as regards
assimilation and nutrition. Food taken in the mouth and acted upon by the digestive organs of thh
stomach is converted into Glucose and Peptone, and in these forms enters the Portal vein. He?e hv
tne action of the liver, these substances are converted into a form of sugar and pass out of the livaV
by a large vein, called the Hepatic vein, into the general circulation. The new material now formed
Bystem tW ° purposefl ’ viz - ; the maintenance of heat in the body and assisting in the cell growth of the
Dr. Murchison says, “ The composition of bile and its secretion is very complex. It is constants
b /j he I J v ® r » increasing suddenly before eating, gradually decreases as soon as the
?M telB « i,afled and feeding ceases.” Now, if this most important organ of the body becomes
torpid, or the passage of bile interfered with, emaciation and disease ensue. I note eight marked
peculiarities that now occur, and which we all know of maiaea
1. The patient complains of a feeling of weight and fullness of the stomach.
Distension of the bowels by wind.
Heartburn.
A feeling of weariness, pains in the limbs and great sleepiness after meals,
A bad taste in the mouth, especially in the morning, and furred tongue.
Constipation, with an occasional attack of diarrhoea.
Headache in front of head.
8. Depression of spirits and great melanoholy, with lassitude and a disposition to leave
everything for to-morrow.
°f the above symptoms go to show functional derangement of the liver; and now comes the
gmt Importance of any error made as to the condition of the patient. He should immediately pro-
vide himself with a LIVER STIMULANT, the most common form of which is a Pill Daily ex-
perience shows that this, when the PiJl is compounded properly, is the readiest mode of inciting* and
promoting the action of the Liver, and can be almost always relied on. I have devoted many years of
Su»fl l if^’op 8 « n nm y „ 0 o f w 011 0W b r e | ore “o know, to compounding a Pill that will act readily and system-
aticaliy as a Bilious Remedy. Ido not believe in great purgatives, and therefore have made a Pill,one
of which is an active and thorough dose. I hava called it * tm, one
Or. Kfaydock’s lew Liver Pill (Sugar Coated.)
One Pill is a Dose! One Pill is a Dose! One Pill is a Dose!
For all Diseases of the Kidneys, Dr. Haydock’s New Liver Pills are a perfect cure. One Pill
will satisfy the most sceptical.
For Female Diseases, Nervous Prostration, Weakness, General Lassitude, Want of Appetite, an
Bick Headache, Dr. Haydock’s New Liver Pills will be found an Effectual Remedy.
They are universal in their effects, and a cure oan almost always be guaranteed.
Each vial contains Twenty Pills—One Pill is a Dose. Price Twenty-Five Cents.
FOR SALE BY ALL DRUGGISTS.
Every Pill Is Sugar Coated. If your druggist does not keep them, we will mail them free to any ad-
dress on receipt of 2o cents. Five vials for $l.OO. BUY AT ONCE. DO NOT DELAY. *
C AUTI ON.-To secure th e genuine Haydock’s Pills, observe that the signature of J. H. Francis
Agent for the United States, is written on every dozen packages. Purchase none without this.
As Dr. Haydock’s Liver Pills are entirely different from the 213 kisds now in the market, any seep-
tic can have a sample bottle sent him free on receipt of his name and address.
HAYDOCK & CO., New York, U. S.
Carnrick’s Cod Liver OM
n . n PEPTOWISED (DIGESTED.)
liignly recommended by the Medical Profession throughout the world as being
the best remedy; for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, Scrofula, Wasting
Diseases, Consumption, General Debility, over-taxed brains, &c., &o.
it will produce an immediate gain in flesh and strength.
Can be taken when all other forms of Cod Liver Oil are refused.
It contains about equal parts of the best Norwegian Cod Liver Oil and concen-
trated fresh milk, both peptonised (digested).
The peptonised milk disguises the unpleasant taste and smell of the oil. and
raakes it as sweet as cream; very palatable and most nourishing.
Invaluable for children, and will agree with the most delicate persons, causing
no. return or unpleasantness.
On@ trial will satisfy anyone of tho great value of this new and unique pre-
paration,
The reconstructive or nutritive properties are five times greater than the
r? Other Emulsion, hence it is much cheaper.
Both the Oil and the Milk being digested, the whole will assimilate, whereas
v-oci Laver Oil and other Emulsions (being undigested) only a small
proportion is of any value. It is the most nerfect Emulsion ever
made and the only one of digested Cod Liver Oil and Milk.
Analysed and recommended by the first Professors in Europe.
We also manufacture the above preparation combined with Hypophosplntes
of Lime and Soda. SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO.. LIM, LONDON.
Carnrick’s Soluble Food for Infants, Invalids,
and Aged Persons, is the most nutritions, palatable, and easily-digested Infant’s
Food ever manufactured, containing fifty per cent, of thesolids of milk (digested)
and fifty per cent, of the finest wheat, converted into soluble form.
A most perfect food. The nearest approach to Mother’s Milk ever made
It is unequalled for the formation of fat, flesh, and bone, and increasing
the vital forces SO necessary to health.
Specially recommended in cases of Marasmus, Diarrhoea, and Cholera
Infantum, and where the digestion is defective.
Children fed upon cereals or cow’s milk alone very often remain weak, and
suffer from softening of the bones, and when attacked by infantile dia-
orders are unable to resist the inroads of disease.
CARNRICK’S SOLUBLE FOOD ” is invaluable for Invalids
and Aged Persons (who cannot digest farinaoeous food), as it is rich
in nutritive and easily-digested albumenoids, thus increasing both flesh
and strength, and restoring the vital foroes.
It is most convenient fcr use,being in a powdered form, and will keep indefinitely.
When boiled and stirred for three minutes it is ready for immediate use.
rrvr.-T-, „, „ SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS. t
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIMITED, LONDON.
fl
CO
(3
c_>
CO
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguish Wilson's Ame-
rican “ Extra Toast ” BISCUITS. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and inoomparible
with ooffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Bole Agents,
74 BUSSIX BTRBBT,„BTDNEY f


Glticura
JEczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
•v
*4'
Scrofula on Neck-
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING- HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic "Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
1 jtiss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticuba and Cutic-ura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath 1
with Cuticuba Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “How to Cura Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
r. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, _ Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
,ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared et the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
Mover Travel Without It.
Wanted in Every House.
KRHSW
EFFECTUALLY destroys
ALL N OXIOUS I NSECTS]
FLEAS. FU ES. BEETLES. MOSQU ITOES.I
COCKROACHES. AND is|
AT THE SAME TIMEQUITEI
HARMLESSTO BIRDS DOGsF
FOWLS OROTHER^’' 1
ANIMALS Mt
s
t
n
FELTON* GRIMWADE%LC^
Wanted in Every House-
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
AUHOODI RESTOREDI
A Clergyman having tried every known remedy
J forth* CU REof N ERVOUSEXHAUft
TION, PREMATURE DECAY, &0., h»e M
l»et discovered* simple SELF-CURE, wmch.fej
St# sake of stußering humanity, he will send FREE
Ike Prescription which CURED him. , Addreee,
eith self-addressed stamped envelope—
»r. E. A. CLARKE, T.O. Box 3N. Sydney.
,: ‘ 7‘3""
‘ “4W " _
Q REES“ m f
U!CDI>¥ SUOKOMT
O and
HaveyourU mbreila Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
§4l George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. BenalranMtlT exe
nM|
YANKEE DOODLE
t.
¥<m
so^ s
■SON
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
o o O V BO X
h 'mmmm
S
■U
BIXSGS9 ft SONS, Sydnejf,
lopsess the largest Factory, Manufacture more
Tobacco, and consume more American Leaf
tban any factory in the southern hemisphere.
KIF" YANKEE DOODLE, CONQUEROR, Sir Roger, Champion, and Dixson’s Cut Tobaccos.
JC j 3 £&
BUDGEREE!!
Trade
C '
Jxﬁ" A s.
w!
2:. ‘
.‘ 1 e
*‘V (41/ 'i"
"" A“;.E=e.-v ["1
- ‘ ~ x- r 1
' . - 5 \07 I“ 9- _.‘—-I
w ' I -' a (
m." ﬁ'r ‘
. ’ ‘ \
/ f ‘ . (1' if” I, ‘\\\y\ r
. ,1; ‘fs .,
”firm =5, m ‘5". -.
- ‘ V ’ SN /
>7 h.- i‘i, 39:;4
: .‘¢ ~— ‘—= .\ b“
5‘»- , ‘ " ‘3- " I A
:3 »_ > ’ _:. ’ , a? l\‘o
Mark,
KTO MOBE FEVEE.
The BUDGEREE DISINFECTANT is the most wonderful Germ-killer and Fever-
destroyer known. No household should be without it, as it instantly kills all bad
smells arising from closets, bad drains, &c. Sold at all chemists.
Ofipot: MS. G. STEEL, Bulletin-lane, Lower Pitt-sft.
'Jkbru: %lfc » iMetSjdef?
TMTILLIAM BULLABD has the Largest Btook
V w of MUSIG in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, Sea.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &e.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &e.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues can be had gratis on applica-
tion.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &c., at lowest prices.
Printing.—lnvoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Sans, &e.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Christmas and ether Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock,
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Cali and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever invented. The Trypograph
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off TO splendid copies
S«nd and obtain full particulars of working.
william bollard,
m GEORGE STREET.
JJOLLO WAY’S PILLS.
A never-failing remedy in all Derangements of
the LIVER end STOMACH, they may be used with
perfect confidence by young and old. .
Their world-wide fame for the last fifty years Is
a guarantee of their efficacy. Thousands of testi-
monials, from princes to peasant o , attest their
marvellous virtues.
Manufactured only at 18 New Oxford- st., London
pgr- Purchasers should look to the Label on the
Boxes and Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-
street, London, they are spurious.
2?Ills
The Great Liver Remedy.
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth oen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
Serienee. They overcome the worst form of
dseases Of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E.' Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge: Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
J. BUTTERFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
Street, Reclfern.
Linen G-losss
FREE
PfoESC&IRTIONS are to
be found in the “LIGHT AND
LlFE,’’forthe speedy cure of Nervous Debility,
Lost Manhood, Despondency, &c. A copy of
this book will be sent free, sealed. Address—
8. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy.
76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS.
Americau Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
10
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
i lf(u
X
A
SPECIALLY IMPORTED FOR CITY OR COUNTRY USE.
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY,
AT
LOWEST PRICES.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
w EVERY VEHICLE GUARANTEED


To the mechanical order, and to many
others who, being occupied in earning a liveli-
hood, find themselves debarred from attending the
curriculum of the University, the evening classes
of the Technical College attached to the
Sydney School of Arts are of incalculable
value. We have not a list of the c'asses
before us at this moment, but we have several
times gone carefully through one, and have always
risen from the perusal with a sense of satisfaction.
Not the least practical is the course presided over
by Mr. S. Herbert Cox, F.C S. “ Mines and
Minerals—a Guide for the Australian Miner,” of
which Mr. Cox and Mr. Felix Ratte, Mineralogist
to the Australian Museum, are the joint authors,
lies before us. This is probably the most
valuable contribution to technical informa-
tion in connection with Australian mining
which has ever issued from the Press,
and in these colonies, where fresh discoveries are
daily being made in districts previously regarded
only in relation to their grazing value, and where
the seleotor, the stock-rider, and the shepherd
trample under foot for years indications of untold
treasure, which thrust themselves upon their ob-
servation, and only utter ignorance of minerals
prevent them from recognising or profiting by,
such a volume should have a universal circulation.
It is written in plain language, and the text is
helped out with frequent outs. The work is ex-
cellently printed by John Woods and Co., Bridge-
street, and contains about 350 pages.
The most diverting—to non-members—of
the many Melbourne societies is that which has
kindly taken upon itself the task of expounding
the unexpressed ideas of Divine William. The
Shakespeare Society meets once a month to dis-
cuss “ papeis.” Now, there are many methods of
concooting papers on Shakespeare’s heroes and
heroines. The student can confine himself to dis-
cussing certain characters as superficially sketched
by the Bard; or he can, if ambitious, present them
in new aDd hitherto unsuspected capacities. At
the last Melbourne corroboree, for instance, a Mr.
Douglas upheld the view that Horatio had been
Hamlet’s tutor at Wittenberg University. This is
an interesting possibility which has escaped the
notice of everyone except Mr Douglas. Poor old
Shakespeare died without takmg it into considera-
tion at all. He was a man who left questions to be
decided by posterity, which, with a little extra ex-
penditure of ink, he might have settled himself—
once and for ever. Sometimes, perhaps, the Bard
“played light” with certain characters from
motives of modesty. He is possibly aghast
at finding that Dr. Wilson, Secretary of
the M.S.S.. has read a paper dissecting the
character of Cressida. It can’t be helped. Every-
thing Shakespearian must be dissected sooner or
later, and the gicMy Cressida comes in with the
rest. By the way, Cnarles DickeDS must have been
anticipating this Shakespeare Society when he
wrote “ Nicholas Nickleby.” There he introduces
us to a gentleman who bad immortalised nimself of
writing a pamphlet of 300 pages about the deceased
husband of Juliet’s nurse. We intend throwing
off just such another little work ourselves. Mr.
Douglass paper suggests to us “A Treatise on
Horatio: his official position at Wittenberg
University, and probable salary appertaining
thereto.” If it runs into many editions we may fol-
low on with “ Would Cressida have done the
Bloc*?”
More in sorrow than in anger we clip the
following from our august contemporary, the
Botany Mercury:— “ Tommy Ah Fook is a celes-
tial savant, who was recently uufortinate enough
to fall under the displeasure Land fist] of a young
gentleman of the genus hoodlum, who rejoices in
the soubriquet of Jimmy King, Consequently he
was reluctantly obliged to prefer a charge against
the aforesaid JK. for ‘salt and battery’ (stat.
3 and 4 Viet.). During the course of the
magisterial enquiry, James (by the grace of God)
chanced to remark that a sweet, girly-girly young
creature, named;Venetia de Montmorenci Jones,
occupied the proud position of the partner of his
joys and woes, his superior moiety, otherwise his
wife. He was about to pursue his interesting
theme and describe how he had wooed and won
the gentle maid, and how “she loved him for the
dangers he had passed,” when T.A.F , unable to
contain himself longer, commenced beating a
wild tattoo on tho floor with his heels as he
exclaimed in tne paroxysm of his passion: “ Netia
no wifee he!—sometime she pay talkee wifee me—
sometimes can makee find better man. Ah Sin,
makee talkee wifee he! Blenty time me thinkee
too muchee ’luniversal wifee! Too muohee wifee,
no can do! Me savee one day Chinaman come
’long, pay her cum-shaw—she no can belong
ploper pidgeon—.” “Will ycz kape sollencc in
the Coorte there beyant!” roared the Grecian
oflicial in charge, as he gracefully assisted Mr. Ah
Fook into Her Majesty s coupe, known to the
vulgar as the “Black Maria;” and, as the indig-
nant genius from the Flowery Kingdom curled
himself up under the seat, a fellow-passenger was
heard to remark with jeering cynicism, “Kiss,
but never tell!” [We believe “cum-shaw” is
Chinese for “present,” and are of opinion that the
above is a celestial plagearism of the Laureate’s
“Enoch Arden,” where “she said she would be
little wife to both.”—En. B.]
A N.Z. yarn“ It was in Maorilaud, at a
place called the ‘ Mohawka Valley,’ at the foot of
the lovely Te Tiakoura range. It was late at night
(winter time), tea was over, those (bushman) who
resorted to the inn were seated before the biggest
fire it has ever been my lot to see inside of a build-
ing. The landlord sat in the corner. In reply to
my inquiry, if I could have some supper, he said
yes, pats through the passage, across the yard,
into the dining-room. 1 took his advice, for he
did not attempt to show me. In the dark I felt
my way, but had not got far when I found my leg
fixed in a great hole in the floor, which well nigh
doubled me up. This over, I found the door,
stepped out or rather down on to a plank that led
from door to door, or, as it might be explained,
from the main building to the dining room. It
was ‘rainy, the plank slippery, and I fell over on the
back of a pig; the brute got up, and in doing so
pitched me into a large tub of water. The bath
finished, the dining-room door was reacbod, the
only light being a common tallow dip, well nigh
burnt out. On the table was the dirtiest cloth I
had seen, knives without handle?, forks witbeut
prongs, cups without handles, with pieces broken
off all round the tops, bread as flat as a pancake'
and hard as a bullet, a bone of mutton which I
swear had never been carved, for it bore the;
marks of some ones teeth, a plate full of potatoes,,
and a jug of cold tea. This was the spread I gtzedi
upon. I was hungry, oould I get better, perhaps
not, so I went for it. I required salt and pepper;,
on looking for such I spied two tin boxes upon
which I saw this label, ‘Flea Powder’—these con-
tained salt and pepper, respectively; but no, I was*
unable to acoept it, so got through the good things
as best I could. When flnjshed, and before! badi
a chance to say grace, the candle went out. What
a kettle o’ flsh, hut thinks I the same way I got in
so I’ll get out; I did so to my sorrow, for, in dodg-
ing across the yar", Mr. Dog made for me; this
hastened my speed considerably through the door
to the tap or pot room, with a dog holding fast to
the seat of my trousers. Faithful creature, how
affectionately I spoke to him; so did his owner, who
kind y kicked him under the bonemill. After this
little oit of fun was over, and being tired, I re-
quested to be shown to my bedroom. Bidding the
landlord good night I closed the door, pulled the
sheets off the bed, then turned in, put out the
light, but sleep I could not, the pillow was that
hard and lumpy, so that a thought struck me that
it would not be out of plaoe if I opened the pillow;
so I got a light, found my knife, and set to work
on the pillow. Tne cause of all this trouble soon
showed itself. I toon from the inside the legs of
several fowls, two heads, four wings, and a large
stone. This completed, I laid down again; yet no
Bleep; each t'me I dozed off sometning passed
over the bed. It was a cat after rats. At last I
did sleep; yet picture my astonishment in the
morning when I spied upen the chair beside my
bed the poor cat with seven dead rats in its charge.
What fun these poor creatures must have been
baviDg whilst I slept the sleep of the righteous.
Breakfast was something after the same order as
the supper, rough-and-i'eady. The whole of this
grand entertainment cost at the rate of 103. per
day. The owner cf the hotel, or whatever it was
called, came from the Land o’ Cakes, he was a
bachelor, had no female in or about the place, and
did all his own housework. I left for Turanga-
kama immediately after breakfast, where, fora
few days I was the guest of a savage (Maori), as
some folk call the natives, here the food was
wholesome, and shelter all that could be desired.
The savage studied cleanliness, the Sootchman
Godliness.”
QUOD FACIMUS VALDE FACIMUS.
(What we do we do well.)
/-"% 3 '
‘l‘r ““1"".‘71‘M'
“my 3‘” ‘- kﬁm/I ‘f
' \f‘ 7’ ‘ :4;
.1‘ , "'
.',\:“\ ‘
n. ., ’
Ifi‘i-éfik
‘ ,Cn‘” ‘ 's
e . ".33“ ‘ .4
F x. ~ ‘3‘
‘f \‘
TOUR PHOTO.—If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ac-
cept what is but well-meant
couusel, and pay first a visit to
the vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can inspect an
arrayof portraiture, not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co., which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost universal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Go hold quite a
unique position as potographers.
Prices—C-D-V.,; Cabinets* 30s. per dozen.
CREELMAN ft CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, SYDNEY ARCADB.
Sulpholine
Lotion.
THE CURE FOR SKIN DISEASES.
IN A FEW DAYS ERUPTIONS. PIMPLES,
BLOTCHES, ENTIRELY FADE AWAY.
BEAUTIFULLY FRAGRANT. PERFECTLF
HARM LESS. CURES OLD STANDING SKIN
DISEASES.
REMOVES EVERY KIND OF ERUPTION. SPOT,
OR BLEMISH, AND RENDERS THE SKIN
CLEAR, SMOOTH, bUPPLE, and HEALTHY.
Bottles 3s. 91, Sold everywhere. Made by J.
PEPPER & CO.
PEPPER’S
QUININE AND IRON
HEALTH, STRENGTH,
ENERGY,
TONIC
Great Bodily Strength, Great Nerve Strength
Great Mental Strength, Great Digestive
Strength,
Follows ths use of PEPPER’S QUININE AND
IRON TONIC.
Betties, lt> desas; larger bottles, doses.
Sold everywhere.
PEPPER’S
THE SAFEST
ANTIBILIOU3
TARAXACUM
MEDICINE.
AND
PQDOPHYLLIN.
A FLUID LIVER MEDICINE, without Mercury.
ttßjles, 12 doses. Sold everywhere.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
“ If you are suffering from poor health
‘or languishing on a bed of sickness,
‘ take cheer, for American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will cure you.
“If you are simply ailing, if you feel
‘weak and dispirited, without clearly
* knowing why, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will Revive you.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
‘ taxed yourself with your pastoral
‘ duties, or a Mother worn out with care
‘ and work, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will Restore you.
“If you are a man of business or
‘labourer weakened by the strain of
* your avery-day duties, or a man of let-
* ters, toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strenghten you.
“ If you are suffering from over eating
‘ordrinking, any indiscretion or dissi-
‘ pation, or are young and growing too
‘ fast, as is often the case, Am. Co.’s
Hop Bitters will relieve you.
“If you are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
‘ that your system needs cleansing, ton-
‘ ing, or stimulating, without intoxicat-
* ing, American Co.'s
Hop Bitters is what you need.
“If you are old, and your blood thin
‘ and impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
* unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Am. Hop Bitters will give you new Lifla
and Vigour.
“ HOP BITTERS, as made by the Ame-
‘ rican Co., is an elegant, healthy, and
‘ refreshing flavouring for sick-room
‘ drinks, impure water, etc., rendering
‘them harmless, and sweetening the
‘ mouth, and cleansing the stomach."
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
None genuine without a bunch of green hops
on white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown in
bottle. Shun all others as vile poisonous stuff.
WILLIAM BALL,
THE "PROFESSIONAL” AND PHARMACEU-
TICAL CHEMIST.
61 Bourke-street East, Melbourne.
THE Toilet and Theatrical Requisites, manu-
factured by W. Ball, are composed of the
purest ingredients, and are guaranteed not to
cause the least injury to the most delicate skin.
There are few ladies now, either in private life
or of the Theatrical Profession, who do not look
upon the
BLOOM OF PEACHES
(REGISTERED)
as the one article that is perfectly safe and satis-
factory to uso either for the
THEATRE, BALLROOM, OR PROMENADE.
£
m3D
% i
J
Our;Cupids Manufacturing Bloom op Peaches
“Dear Sir,—l consider your ‘make-up’ perfect,
and should never think of using anything else
while it is possible, to obtain it.—Yours truly,
Ed. Farley.”
The following ladies and gentlemen have also
written, speaking in the highest terms of these
Toilet Requisites Mesdames Louise Pomeroy,
Alice Deorwyne, Myra Kemble, Eva Davenport,
Roland Watt Phillips, etc., etc.; Messieurs George
Titheradge, George Rignold, Sheridan, Henry
Hodgson, W. J. Holloway, Fred. Marshall, Brian
Darley, Frank Cates, etc.
To be obtained of all Chemists.
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
Wholesale Agents, N.S.W.;
Messrs. PROSSER & CO., Sydney.
8
umm
LIMITED,
356 George-sireetp
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
FI&N O 1, ORGANS
and
MUSIC
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EAST TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues & Prices on Application.
W.H. PALING & Co,
356 George-street, Sydney.
8UX.il DO© ALU.
fIJRST AWARD, GOLD MBDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling, healthful, refreshing and thirst
quenching properties of this worid-renownet
R^wr) 0f + Bas8 J 4. le A have obtained for Messrs
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given ai
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burtoi
Wine and Spirit Merchants.
CATTELL &
Sole Agents.
Everybody >
should use \
FXjMXiXjI/3
EXTRA SUPERFINE
, 0 IT v IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
„ „ New Process Machinery.
The p BICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTOKIA FLOUE MI'LL,
8*1 «eor«e-8treet, Sydney.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL'S
BISCUITS All CASES, TREACLE AND BOLDER STRUT
Self-raising AErated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
FOR SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.
S, & A. have obtained First Awards allover ihe _ world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney 1.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-4,
Sydney Agents; ■. H. AREELL A CO., 343 asst! 340 Kant-straet.


Awarded Three
Prize Medals
for Superior
Workmanship.
A. B. PYKE,
Importer and Manufacturer of
high art furniture
AND
Appointments,
Brass, Iron, and mckle-iilated Bedsteads.
Woven, Wire, and other Mattresses.
Velvet-pile, Kidderminster, Tapestry, end Brus-
sels Carpets in Newest Colourings and Designs.
Blankets, Quilts, Hearth Rugs, Door Mats, Dinate.
Services, Chamber Ware. >
Kitchen Requisites, &c , &o.
The Only Address Is
365 and 365 a Pift-atreef,
BETWEEN
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY,
AWARDED THREE PRIZE MEDALS
FOR DURABILITY.
■ a
IN
f°l J R VlfEp
m
Ks
mmms
ESSKNCEofIIFE
ie only infallible remedy for
•A/efo/oi/s JjebiLijyT
THERE are many men in this colony who are,
day by day, melancholy, miserable, and a
burden to themselves, through early Indiscretion
or over-indulgence. It is to those that this adver-
tisement is addressed. Impotence drags its victim
in its unhappy train through years of suffering,
rendering Ins existence a misery. Tie fees his
fellow beings hate, hearty, and vigorous—in the
full enjoyment of manhood’s greatest privilege
and naturally becomes despondent, seeking soli-
tariness, and sbunning society generally.
He is lured into trying some of the So-called
Remedies, but without avail, and imagines he
must go down to the grave a hopeles * invalid. If
such be your calamity, know that your case can
be relieved and a Cure effeqted by a simple course
of this Invaluable Medicine, which will, in the
short space of Four Weeks, render ycu capable
of appreciating and Knioying Life.
This valuable remedy affords relief, aDd perma-
nently cures all who suffer from Wasting and
withering of the Nervous and Muscular
Spermatorrhoea, and all Urinary Deposits, which
cause incapacity and degeneracy, total and partial
prostration, and every other exhaustive derange-
ment of the system-regenerating all the im-
portant elements of the human fram-q and et-
rii?® 1 P? an fulfil fils most sacred obligations.
The directions are very simple, and require no
restraint or hindrance from business. Pamphlets
enclosed in each case with testimonials
in cases at 13s , or four quantities in one, for 363.:
üby coach, 3a. 6d. extra. City and suburbs free.
Agents for Sydney :
Messrs. W. BARCLAY & CO.,
43 Goulburn Street,
One door from George Street, South.
Parcels, packed sscurely, and free from obser
vanon, seiit to any part of the colony on receipi
I ?Lh'if es ’ Pest Office Order, or Postage Stamps
with the greatest promptitude.
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN,
c known remedy for RHEUMATISM.
RA?d L( L IA » headache toothacme
’ bru *SES ? lURNS. SCALD! & c and
i’n*M l^ ernally euros DIARRHCEA. DYSENTERY,
001,109 other Interns aches
32/ - Sold Every wtfcere t
5- E- MOULTON, sole PROPfx:3R„
AND 'oVIDNEY,
PAINT
MARSHALL 5
A.
iJA.DE MAKE— “ TONIC NERVINE.”
« OBTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE tor Ner-
that s«2n S a i ld General Debility, and all complaint*
Tootlmehf f ™m laek of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Apn e tft C J e ii> Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Comn]ain+,J e !n al ® Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Blood P»Wr,„?, Prostration, Impoverished
,£, m * atu 4 re Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
removes in ™ al< i soothing- effects it at once
in nhoimwH ° laY i E *f tor Alcohol, By its richness
mente MAo«lr a ?^°. ther Powerful vitalising ele-
«hera^ A J SHALL 8 TONIC NERVINE nour-
Price iz «J lvtiS Jiffour t» the whole system,
a oaa ® ® old everywhere,
Chem I rii^U B J4 LL BROT D«RE Registered
taCiiio l^, 6 Market st„ Sydney N.8.-All imt-
“Wuusi illegal, TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
PAUL LIEBE
UNLIKE OTHERS
0
fO*
PUIUHEHISTS
INI0&200Z BOT s
WHOLESALE AGENT
AYER’S
Cherry Pectoral.
No other complaints are so insidious in their
attack as those affecting the throat and lungs:
none so trifled with by the majority of suffer-
ers. The ordinary cough or cold, resulting
perhaps from a trifling or unconscious ex-
posure, is often hut the beginning of a fatal
sickness. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral lias
well proven its efficacy in a forty years’ fight
with throat and lung diseases, and should he
taken in all cases without delay.
A Terrible Cough Cured.
“In 18571 took a severe cold, which affected
my lungs. I had a terrible cough, and passed
night after night without sleep. The doctors
gave me up. T tried Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral, which relieved my lungs, induced
sleep, and afforded me the rest necessary
for the recovery of my strength. By the
continued use of the Pectoral a perma-
nent cure was effected. lam now 62 years
old, hale and hearty, and am satisfied your
Cherry Pectoral saved me.
Horace Fairbrother.”
Rockingham, Vt., July 15,1882.
Croup.—A Mother’s Tribute.
“While in the country last winter my little
hoy, three years old, was taken ill with croup;
it seemed as if lie would die from strangu-
lation. One of the family suggested the use
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, a bottle of
which was always kept in the house. This
was tried in small and frequent doses, and
to our delight in less than half an hour the
little patient was breathing easily. The doc-
tor said that the Cherry Pectoral had
saved my darling’s life. Can you wonder at
our gratitude ? Sincerely yours,
Mrs. Emma Gedney.”
159 West 128th St., New York, May 16, 1882.
“I have used Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
in my family for several years, and do not
hesitate to pronounce it the most effectual
remedy for coughs and colds we have ever
tried. A. J. Crane.”
Lake Crystal, Minn., March 13, 1882.
“ I suffered for eight years from Bronchitis,
and after trying many remedies with no suc-
cess, I was cured by the use of Ayer’s Cher-
ry Pectoral. Joseph Walden.”
Byhalia, Miss., April 5,1882.
“I cannot say enough in praise of Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral, believing as I do that
but for its use I should long since have died
from lung troubles. E. BrAGDON.”
Palestine, Texas, April 22, 1882.
No case of an affection of the throat or
lungs exists which cannot be greatly relieved
by the use of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
and it will always cure when the disease is
not already beyond the control of
PREPARED BY fe
Dr.ihC.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists,
ELLIOTT BftOS. and 8 HOEENUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
CONTINUED SUCCESS
OP
RILEY BROTHERS’
ORIGINAL
£5 MiPEEI CUES!
PACKED in CANVAS, and INSURED against
LOSS.
Carriage paid by mail all over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
The £5 Bale system has been in operation for 12
years, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe,
Prioe lists and patterns sent post free.
£5 LADY’S BALE,
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
3 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
of good longcloth. and
nicely trimmed. If de-
sired, other articles may
be ordered instead of
any of the above.
£ft MOURNING BALE.
35 yds. Blk. French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 doz. Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
GLOVES.
On receipt of 38. Id
stamps, we send, post
free, a pair of 3 or 4-
button kid or silk Gloves
any size or colour, good
quality and fashionable.
For aecouchements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant's Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Kobe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £5.
158.
We send, carriage free,
a Lady’s New Accouche-
ment Belt for fifteen
shillings, or a pair of best
Nursing Stays for ten
shillings.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of tho most fashion-
able dress materials-Silks, Velvets, &e.—with
S rices, and full instruction for self -measurement,
: applied to.
RILEY BROTHERS,
165 Oxford Street, Sydney.
Originators of the celebrated £5 Bales of Drapery
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO is the best, purest
and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depends ia a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficscious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non gritty tooth powder; such
Rowlands" Odonto has always proved itself to be.
ROWLANDS BUKONIA is a beautifully
pure, delicate, and fragrant toilet rowder, and
has lately been much improved. Bach box bas
inside the lid a certificate of purity from Dr.
Red wood, Ph D , F.C.S , &c. Sold in three tints :
white, rose, and cream.
ROWLAND&’ MACASSAR OIL can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
article?, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents- Elliot Bros.
E. Prosser & Co , Sydney.
BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES :
64 PITT-STREET, and 538 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 675,010
This Bank has A vents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA, and cm cffer special facilities for
dealing in Builion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial,
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be asceitseined on
application.
EDWARD B. HOLT. Manager.
G
ENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES
AND CLEANED
REPAIRED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Near Market-street.
BELTS
GURATI¥E
ELKCTBIC
HEALTH WITHOUT MEDICINE.
Is obtained speedily and permanent’y by adopting
the safe and never failing remedy of the new mode
of treatment by Electricity, as supplied to the
human system by weerirg the MAGNETfCAL
ELECT'IC APPLIANCE CO S genuine ELEC-
TRIC BELT, a restorer of impaired vitaliiy and
iailing health. Ic is an unvarying success in the
cure an ' alleviation of Rheumatism, Inoige stiOD,
Lumbpgo, Sciatica, Paralysis, Epilepsy, Constipa-
tion, Nervous Debility, and the numerous ailments
consequent upon living in a senr-tropical climate,
and the baneful effects of malaria, which alone
are caused by the deficiency or abstraction from
the body of the all-pervacing element of life-
electruity. Tnis mode of treatment is by far the
moat pei feet and successfu 1 method yet discovered
(combined with perfect safety) for supply ing to the
body the continuous f r imperceptible current of
electricity, without the aid of chain bands or use
of acid, thus giving no inconvenience to the
wearer. They are charged ready lor use, and re-
tain their full power tor a eoneiderabie period.
But to avoid any disappointment by their possible
Joss of ebctric power, and to keep the appliances
up to their original strength, we undertake to re-
charge ary of our appliances at the exiiration of
twelve months, free of cost. One ot the special
features of tins tna'ment is the electric cot set,
which is unsurpassed by its curative properiies in
all female complaints, and is of superior shape and
manufacture. Price, 103 and 15s.
GENT’S ELECTRIC BELTS are manufactured
expressly for tropical climates, of superior mate-
rial, in the shape of a riding belt, and ate very
durable. Price, 155.; special power, 20s In order-
ing size of waist outside first garment is required.
If mailed. 2s. extra. LuDg Invigorators for the
successful treatment of all lung complaints,
hitherto without the domain of Electric Agency,
price 20s. All who have a tendency to weak lungs
should adopt this treatment before it is too late.
The appliances are adapted for local as well as con-
stitutional treatment in tbe form of Knee Caps,
7s 6d, each ; Spine Bands, 10». Insoles—which are
invaluable for cold feet, defective circulation,
rheumatism—4s. 6d. per pair. Send size of boot,
or paper pattern of inside ; postage, Is. 6d. extra.
The public are warned against worthless imita-
tions of our goods, as the great success attending
the adoption of tais mode of treatment has in-
duced other people to attempt, by so-called cau-
tions and notices, to mislead tne public. Therefore
be careful to fee that all goods are marked
“ Msgnetical Electric Applisnce Co., London and
Sydney.” All correspondence treated with the
greatest dispatch. Cheques and PO. Orders to
be made payable to
E. S. KEELD A GO.,
158 Pitf-street,
SOLE PROPRLETOBS FOR AUSTRALIA.
TO Country Journalists.—Leaders, Telegrams,
and Sydney Letters, supplied by competent
literary man of long experience, on moderate
terms. “ Beta,” Bulletin Office.
ELECTRICITY.
SOMETHIHG- NEW!
DR. SCOTT'S ELECTRIC HAIR CDRLER
AND
TOOTH BRUSH.
Ladies or Gentlemen who wish to quickly *nd
fashionably dress, crimp or curl the hair, board
or moustache, by a new method, or to possess
sound, white teeth and*os.y gums are invited
to read the brief but interesting descrip-
tion of these new inventions
Dr. SCOTT’S
Electric Appliances are now
Bold and well known in
every part of the world
and are guaranteed
by the Pall Mall
Electric
Association.
25
I :
GREAT
ANNOYANCE
has been caused
to all people using
tooth brushes by the
bristles coming out in
the mouth. The Pall
Mall Electric Associ-
ation now take pleasure
in introducing to the Aus-
tralian public a Tooth Brush, which they
guarantee free from this troublesome defect.
The bristles are inserted in the handle by a
patent process, which renders it simply
impossible to come out in use. In ad-
dition to this, the handle of the Brush is
made of a newly invented material perma-
nently charged with an electro-magnetio
current, which acts without any shock
immediately upon the nervesand tissues
of the teeth and gums. The act of
brushing causes this current to flow
into the nerve cells and roots of
the teeth, and, like water poured
upon a plant, it invigorates and
vitalizes every part, arresting
decay, building up and re-
storing the natural white-
ness of the enamel and
quickly producing
healthful, rosy-
coloured gums.
The handle'is strong,
beautifully polished,
not affected by acids.,
impervious to
moisture, and
from that uir-
pleasant musty
odour exu-
ding from
wet bon®
handles.
THE
JILL MALL
Lectric
7A T/UxV
to the Aus-
c their new
r, Beard &
urler. it
icle, nickel-
plated, with an ebonized handle, and it
should occupy a place in the toilet of
every lady and gentleman in Australia.
By its aid, the hair, beard, or moustache
can be curled in any desired style in from
one to two minutes. For ladies, it produces
the “ Langtry Style,” the “ Patti Bang,” the
“Montague Curl,” and any other styles
desired by ladies wearing their hair in the
fashionable “ loose and fluffy” mode.
Those who wear waves or other forms
of artificial hair will find this Electrio
Curler a very useful article. It does
not break off and ruin the hair,
like the ordinary crimping pro-
cess, and in wet or hot weather
it works as quickly as in cold.
For curling the Moustache
or Beard in a moment, it
has no equal, while it is
so simple in its opera-
tion that any one of
either sex cam use it
successfully the first
time.
Directions
accompany
each Curler.
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Dr. ScorT, New York.
Your " Crimper and Curler'
works charmingly. Its effect
causes universal admiration.
They are most simple to use. I
consider them Worth a guinea apiece
to those who devote much attention to
the ever-changing arrangement of the
Hair. L. LANGTRY.
Carlton Club, London, W.
Dr. Scott's " Electric Curler" curls the Jloustache
and Beard most perfectly. My wife uses them in
crimping her Hair with pleasing results. Col. D.W.G,
The Royal Dental Society of London testify in the strongest
terms as to the quick benefits following the use of Dr Scott’s
Electric Tooth Brush, and many experts in dentistry declare it to
be the greatest invention in dental appliances since the manufacture
of artificial teeth.
Under Royal
and
Distinguished
Patronage.
Health ensured by using
Hr. Scott’s Beautiful Electric
Corsets, Belts, Electric Hair,
Flesh, and Tooth Brushes
or Insoles.
clEic
aw
m
£/?EEt
All Goods manufactured
toy Dr. Scott bear this label.
BEWAEE OH*
■WORTHLESS
IMITATIONS.
Price, 2s. 6d. each, of all chemists and storekeepers; or the two
direct, post free, for 7s.
Remittances can "be made by cheque, P. 0.0., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
64 Hargaret'Streat,® Sydney.
p.Q. BOX, 331.


NO TIME TO LOSE
AN ITEM FOR FATHERS.
’tv’HY, where on earth are you lugging your hoy
to, Mr. Muffies ?” said a friend, as that gentleman
passed, dragging a diminutive youth in the direc-
tion of Randwick. He was a stout man, and he
brought up immediately in a great heat. Motion-
ing his offspring to take a seat upon a door-step,
he shook hands sadly with his interlocutor.
“ Capers, old man,” he said, “ I’m afeared my
doom will he a hearly grave. I ain’t never ’ad no
eddication, and see what I done without it Why,”
lowering his voice, “ there’s ’ardly a ’ouse from
Chinkies’-lane to Bal iock’s-alley as don’t belong to
me. And there's tenants I Never ask for nothing ’;
110 complaints—’eavenly! Well, I sends this ere
boy to school—a blaek-jacket-and-turn-down-
collar school, if you please—with strict injunc-
tions to the master just to fix up his readin’and
ritin’, and put him so in the ’rithmetic line
as the multiplication tablets wouldn’t throw him
without a struggle.” “ Well, what then ?” inquired
Mr. Capers, “I’llshow you!” cried the father,
dragging at a paper. “This is his ‘ aniseeds’ vot they
sent from the school.” “ ‘ Analysis,’ faddy,” cor-
rected the boy. “Therel” cried Mr. Mufflas, fairly
dancing on tho pavement, “that’s him all over!
Told me at breakfast there was no such word as
* corfeo.’ ‘ You might as well say corfln,’ he said.
Well, Ido say ‘corftn.’ Oh, he’s the . But,
here! Listen. This is the —” “Analysis,” put
in the son.” “ Can’t you let your father speak ?”
cried Muffle 3; “let’s see, where—oh (reads),
5 Caractacus ’ (his mother done that!) ‘ Caractacus
Muffles, we find, takes an extraordinary interest
in the social an’ political history of his country.
Having developed much intelligence in his written
themes, and in his remarks upon this subject,
Special attention has been directed towards his
instruction in the art of Eaglish composition, and
he has been placed in the special elocution class.’
That,” said Mr. Muffles, wiping his face, “was
’ard to bear—very ’ard; but it was last nite
Wot done it. Me and a few gentleman-friends was
a-discussin’ the affairs of thB country in our own
■fray—mind you, our own, quiet, sober way-no
dashing off at targets—when my lord, here, ups
and says: ‘Gentlemen, you are all ten years
behind the age. Whoa the affairs of the
bountry have reached such an emphatic crisis
the present, the voice of the country
cries out for Strength. And what is the word
Synonymous with strength at the hour at
Wbieh I speak? Why—Parkesl’” “Terrible, in-
deed,” said Mr. Staples, “ but how do you propose
_—” “ i’ll tell you. So as neither the politicians,
nor Methodies, nor Freethoughtera, nor the Harmy,
Shall get hold of my hoy, I’m a goin’ to Mr.
Snaffles, at Randwick, there, to”’ (with a chuokle)
•’prentice him to the steeplechasing. Ha, ha!
Sorry to have kept you.” “ Not at all,” returned
Mr. Staples; “I had no objection whatever to
flaying the Wedding Guest to your Ancient
Mariner. Good morning.”
“What’s that he said, Curry asked the father,
fAintly. “Don’t you know, dad!” Then he
dreamily quoted—
“ ‘ As idle as a painted ship
Upon a painted ocean.’ ”
“Ila! come on,” said Mr. Muffles, again taking his
Son by the ear; “I see we have no time to lose.”
Adelaide (writes a correspondent), at one
time, as all Pressmen know, used to be facile prin-
teps in the matter of counter-lunches. These
luxuries have now becomo things of the past, all
through that fatal retrenchment among the Civil
Servants. Byron says “the Assyrian came down
like a wolf on the fold.” Perhaps he did, but
we'll go bail that Byron never saw a herd of un-
bmployed public “horflcers” come down on a
ttay of beef sandwiches, or he would have altered
the metaphor. “ Here, hang it all,” said a
Boniface, the other day, as he took one of the
burled darlings by the collar and ran him out,
“we can’t stand this, you know, for tuppence.”
The ejected one had got his molars fastened into
fully nine inohes of German sausage, and in vain
did the landlord try to rescue it. So now they
don’t have any more counter lunches in Adelaide,
hnd every pressman you meet about 11a.m. drops
hiS lower jaw and looks like a motherless foal.
It was a study to see the face of the proprietor of
an Adelaide paper, the other day, when he began
to feel a rumbling inside, and yelled out to the
office boy, for “the hother arf o’ that there meat
pie he left in the nail-can, yesterday. The office
boy. who had devoured it, presented himself at
the door, and said it had been thrown into the dust-
bin, and that he had seen the editor rooting around
there with his walking-stick. [We really can t be-
lieve this.—Ed. B.] The O. B. then fled, and when
his mother appeared at the den next morning, she
Said. “ Blest if she knew wot wos the matter with
Obadiab, but get ’im to go to the harfiss she could
Wot, no matter ’ow she tried.” The boy was posi-
tively afraid of being eaten. O, yes, Adelaide is
ever such a nice place.
There is, probably, no place in this Austral
isle where they make such a business of religion
as in South Australia-the ” colony of churches.”
In addition to the regular "Sunday shows, in
which parsons of all sects with glowing emotion
and hyper-fervid eloquence—
“ Oft proclaim with holy fire
The labourer’s worthy of his hire;
#hich seems to be the sum total of nineteenth
century Christianity, they have certain afterpieces
which are called " services of song. These are
dignified with such suggestive titles as Uncle
Tom’s Cabin,” "Billy Bray,’ ' Never touch It,
and other such fetching appellations. The climax
was capped, however, the other day, when they
out “ Robinson Crusoe ” on the boards of qne of
the Adelaide tabernacles. Just fancy singing to
the praise of the Almighty paraphrase on the
work of Defoe relating the ropeabie condition of
the lonely monarch when the man Friday brought
him a keg of horse-shoe nails instead of a hunk ot
salt-horse; or conceive the “ in-gathering of souls
which would result from chanting the ludicrous
failures of Friday to learn the English language.
But, never mind, the time-honoured sasser is
ever at the door. They have also "ober dar”
a “blind singing Evangelist,’ named Houston,
whom they play off when things don t seem to
boom in the other line. This unfortunate man is
carted about from Dan to Beersheba, and planted
down without ceremony on Glenelg Pier or
Blinman FiainS, when he forthwith begins to
warble about the “ Golden Shoan” without money
and without price, the elect carefully bagging the
coin, and thanking the Loard lor a blessed time
at Blinman,” or a “glorious gathering at Glenelg,
as the case may be. Such stress is laid on the fact
that Mr. Houston is blind, that you have only just
to scratch the surface of the thing to find that it is
all the show biz. If the Evangelist could Bee, he
wouldn’t be a draw, or more probably still, he
wouldn’t be there at all.
Old lady in soft goods shop : “I want
something nice for niy girls; something plain-
black and yaller, or red and green. Nothin’ flash
goes on to my girls.” The shopman, an utterly
aesthetic young fellow, is getting better.
There are 1.400,000,000 people in the world
of to-day. They could all be comfortably seated
in a paddock 20 miles square. Heaven won’t need
to be such a very large place, will it? But Sheol—
that’s where, if parsons say true, they’ll want the
territory.
Mr. Malcolm, alias Captain Macdonald, of
the Kaikoura and the Brighton biaamy case, will
find himself at liberty, in all senses, at the end of
his seven years’ sentence. Before he had been
five days in quod, his wife (No. 1) served him with
a citation in a divorce suit. Troubles never come
singly.
Mr. Charles Bradlaugh, now that he has
got his long-desired seat ia the House, is compli-
mented thereon in various ways An admirer
sends him the following New Year’s card:—
“ A merry Christmas ” seems a curious greeting
To one who holds our creed in small respect;
Still, it’s a wish there is no harm repeating
Now you are counted “ one of the elect.”
The Orient Steam Navigation Company
have j ust issued in a handsome octavo form a
capital handbook relating to ocean travel. The
present edition is a successor to a truly magnifi-
cent book publishod by tho Company, with identi-
cal purpose, some years ago—a volume too costly
for general diffusion. The work before us avoids
this drawback, and while it contains all the infor-
mation embodied in the larger edition, it gives it
in a handier form, while preserving the exquisite
illustrations by Maclure and Macdonald, London,
which embellished the earlier issue.
Women are making their mark—a point
or two higher with the progress of the times. A
Miss Prideaux has been lately elected by the Pad-
dington Green Hospital Committee to the post of
house surgeon. The lady so honoured is a
Bachelor of Medicine and a Bachelor of Surgery
of London University. There were no less than
19 candidates for the post, of whom half were
University men. A lady fills a similar office in one
of the Parisian hospitals. At St. Kilda (Melb.) we
read upon a brass plate, “ Dr. Laura Morgan,” of
whom we may yet hear of as a candidate at an
hospital election.
Australians “at home” sometimes find
their leisure a burden to them. An advertiser
wanting a secretary reports that of the many
hundred answers he received there came several
from “ retired Australians,” who offered their
services gratis for six hours a day, " occupation
being more an object than any pay.” It is not
everyone who can get into Parliament as Heaton
MODERN PROVERBS.
(BY OUR OWN JOSN BILLINGS)
THE PROVERB SEZ: “HONNER GRAI HARES;” WOT HEZ OLD ELISHA. DUN TO GIT
LEFT OUT IN THE KOLD? A MAN WHO HEZ NO HARE IS SURELI MORE DISARVIN
OF PITE THAN WUN WHO HEZ ENUF TO STUFF A SOPHY.
and Spensley have done, and Wilson is trying to
do, but we should have imagined that there were
bootblacktog corners vacant in some of the streets
or that the evening papers had an opening or two
for active runners—hard up for an occupation
and regardless of pay.
Rich Lord Fitz william has offered a re-
duction of 50 per cent, on last year’s Irish rents to
all tenants who pay ud before Marcn 25th. Some
of the grovellers will behold in this a noble proof
of his Lordship’s generosity. Other people,
though, will detect evidence of his mortal funk,
lest he shouldn’t get any rents at all. My Lord
Fitz william is not the man to make a present of
anything that he ever stood the least chance of
getting. He once, if we remember rightly, closed
his coal mines rather than accede to the very
modest demands of his labourers. Looked at from
a sensible point of viBw, a landlord condemns him-
self when he offers a reduction of 50 per cent, on
rents he has previously exacted.
The unfortunate iron industry of N,B. W.
seems likely to be a howling joke for the Eaglish
experts, to judge by a parcel of iron ore and pig
iron now on view at the Sydney Exchange Tnis
parcel is intended for the Colonial Exhibition, and
has received the usual allowance of “ skite ” from
the Sydney dailies. The D.T. declares that the
iron has been examined by “experts,” and pro-
nounced to be of excellent quali'y. The same
“experts” would likely have declared the bad
iron in Dibbs’ dump cars of excellent quality. At
all events, the pig iron in question is simply
what is known to ironworkers as " blazed ” pig.
Of the iron ore, one portion, the brown hema-
tite, is fairly good; the lees said of the others the
better.
Everything can be got in London—except
a platypus. Mr. Jamrach, of the St, George s-
road, can provide, to fanciers, every bird, beast,
reptile, and fish-not of the sea-serpent and bun-
yip order—except a platypus. This ornithorhyncus
will not stand a sea voyage, and its proper fool
has not as yet been discovered. “ There is,” a re-
turned Australian writes, “ a great show for any-
one who can give to London this Australian
novelty.” It would be the “lion” of the forth-
coming colonial exhibition there. Mr. Jamrach is
ready to take consignments in quantity, and give
fabulous prices for this combination of bird,
beast, and fish—delivered alive. A C.M.G.-ship at
least, and perhaps a knighthood, awaits the suc-
cessful exporter.
A rather extraordinary decision was given
at the Stockport (Eng) Court recently by Judge
Hughes. A professional pedestrian, named Peter
Bt. Leger, of Macclesfield, claimed the recovery of
a gold watch from Daniel Ward, of Handworth,
under the following circumstances:—The plaintiff
and the defendant’s son had competed in a walk-
ing match, of which the defendant was the judge.
The defendant decided in favour of his son, and
the plaintiff alleged that his son had walked one
lap short. The Judge decided to have the match
walked over again in his own presence during the
following month, and choose a gentleman in court
to assist him in judging. Judge Hughes may be a
bit of a p<?d , but th* odds are he is about as lit to
judge a walking match as professional walker St.
Leger would be to take his seat on the Bench.
No greater sign of the extent to which the
at one time well-patronized sport of “ the ring ”
has fallen in England could be found than in tne
amount of trash written in the English Press over
a so-called fight for the “Championship of Eng-
land and £200,” between one Smith and one Davis.
The whole affair lasted about seven minutes, and
no less than six rounds were fought during that
period, so that the actual time the men faced each
other could not have been much longer than one
round as fought under the more civilised Queens-
berry rules Smith woo, Davis proving a mere
chooping block, and Smitn has now been put up
by more than one paper as the host man in Eng-
land, and one rag even states its belief tbat Smith
is the best man E gland ever produced. Shades
of Cribb, Molineux, Belcher, Gully, and Gregson,
how oau you rest under such slander I It is enough
to send old Jem Mace across the briny to give the
“ oudacious ” Smith a hiding.
It is customary in Parkes, N.S.W., to give each
pupil a ticket to prove attendance, and these cards
have an illuminated text on them. Now, one of
the school marms has a brother who smokes
cigarettes and with each packet is presented a
small photo,, generally of an agreeably worldly
character—actresses, danseuses, and nidi. These
“ Little Beauties” as they are called, are works of
art, and the young lady had collected about 40,
which she put In her Sunday dress pocket. One
of the deacons, to improve the occasion, told the
children, “ Now, try to think for yourselves and
model your lives by what you see on these simple
tickets which Miss Blank will give you at the
door. I’ll explain, next Sunday, anything you
don’t understand on them.” It strikes us he’ll
have to discriminate between Ellen Terry, Kate
Vaughan, and Lily Langtry next week. He may
have a word or two to say on Conny Gilchrist and
the abnormal understanding of the so-called
“ Gyro-falcon.”
The Sydney Morning Herald last week
published the following paragraph
field.—Nominations for aldermen : Messrs. John
Strauss, David Moses, and Donald Henderson, for
Jared; Messrs. John Brown, and Edward Reeves,
for Whereat; Mr. William Crig, for Kilgour; and
Mr. David Eaglish, for Corney .” Tho Herald
should be commended for striving after original
ideas, and we accord the fullest respect which
youth should ever offer to age and imbecility; but
in such matters as the names of persons running
for office, truth should he the prime feature, and
fancy merely utilised as the gilt-edged framework
which sets off the sketch. The gentlemen nomi-
nated to fill the aldermanic vacancies at Tenter-
field were, in reality. Messrs John Strauss, David
Moses, Donald HendersoD, Jared John Brown,
Edward Reeves Whereat, William Craig Kilgour,
and David English Cooney. The subdivisions of
"Whereat,” “Jared,” “Kilgour,” and “Corney,”
exist only in the mind of tbeiHERALD man. They
are unknown in New England.
The “uncrowned king,” as his admirers
call Mr. Chailes Stuart Parnell, “naps it” pretty
hotly from the many who are not his admirers.
These are samples of the way they send polite
congratulations to him with the compliments of
the season. They assume, in compliment, an Irish
character.—
Many happy returns of the saison, Parnell;
Faix you’ve throttled the Whig and bamboozled
the Tory,
An’ whin all of them blagyards is fryin’ in—well,
I’ll not minshin the place—you’ll be reignin in
glory.
So gently, my sprig o’ shillaly, and don’t, by suc-
cess, be misled,
In dragging your coat to the Saxon; you might,
perhaps, meet with a knock,
For we’ve heard of another “uncrowned” one
thus pridefully losing his head.
And you, like that other Charles Stuart, might
bring yourself to a “ block I ”
King Ludwig of Bavaria is still carrying
on bis ingeniously lunatic performances. He
keeps carefully out of sight, but contrives to pro-
vide matter for more chroniques about his private
doings than any of the visible monarcbs of
Europe. King Ludwig s latest eccentricity is re-
markable even for him; he has been photo-
graphed. It came about in this wise. During one
of his solitary walks in the Bavarian Alps he en-
countered an unamiable ox, which barred the way
and refused to allow his Majesty to pass. For a
bovine subject to make himself so unpleasantly
conspicuous was not to be endured; wherefore
the king seized a plank which happened to be at
hand, and, placing himself in a position of attack,
as with a bayonet, he prepared to charge. Then,
of course, the surly ox sbeered off, and allowed
the king to pass; and his Invisibility was so
pleased with bis own exploit that he had himself
photographed in the attitude of charging. We
would like to see some of our colonial lawyers
photographed in the attitude of charging. What
a picture could be produced I The modesty of
Ludwig would be entirely and completely eclipsed.
American papers at times, in their striv-
ings after truth, get almost on to the verge of un-
complimentary remarks. The New York Dra-
matic News thus describes the staff of the Her ATT)
(not the S.M.H.):— s Anybody who knows any-
thing at all about the New York Herald knows
that it is at present conducted on what may be
called a basis of the strictest intemperance. That
is, every .one connected with it, ko matter in
what capacity or position, gets wildly and help-
lessly drunk as often as he possibly can without
doing permanent violence to his tenure of office.
The intellectual department of our esteemed con-
temporary has always got a head on it, so to speak.
When the managing editor returns to a brief inter-
val of sobriety, his junior next in rank proceeds
to get full as speedily and as thoroughly
as he can, and so on, from the top of tne ladder
so its lowest round, the long gamut of intoxication
has been completely run. 1 ' We feel the very
greatest pleasure in mentioning that in this country
at least, temperance, soberness, and truth are the
distinguishing characteristics of literary men, few
of whom get “thatway” unless some one else
pays for it. We have occasionally seen men on
the staff of small up-country papers who did
tamper with the enemy, but these men were looked
upon as literary outcasts who would even go the
length of pay tog for drink when they could not
obtain it otherwise. Such men are, happily, rare,
Bulloch Night, the Afghan jemedar, who
brought to Australi' in 1856 the camels used by
the ill-fated Burke and Wills’ party, and subse-
quently accompanied the MTntyre expedition in
1866, recently addressed a telegram to Baron Von
Mueller stating that he had discovered tne remains
of Leichhardt, the long-lost explorer—the L ving-
stone of our Australian wilderness. No further
information was given, and little fai’h is held in
the Afghan’s story, which, like that of Skuthorpe,
is looked upon as a lie. It may not he known to
our readers that a reward of £lOOO is still available
for the finder of Leichhardt’s remains, and this,
doubtless, excites the cupidity of those with whom
not even a dead hero’s memory is sacred. It is
apparently sacred enough to the colonial Govern-
ments, else long ere this Leichhardt had slept in
consecrated ground and;a four-storied monument
marked the fact that his deeds lived after him.
But:—
Sleep, Leichhardt, sleep,
Though but the savage knows
Thy resting place, in lonely forest wild;
Sleep long and deep;
Naught may mar thy repose
In winter drear, or Austral’s spring time
mild.
The wild flowers bloom—
The wonga’s whirring wing--
The curlews’ moan through all the lonely
night
Above thy tomb
Are requiems which a king,
The highest state, could never claim as right.
Adieu, brave heart I
Perchance forgot by men:
What matter so ? Thy life of care is past.
May better part
Be thine when Memory’s pen
Does justice to thy gallant name at last.
THE GERM THEORY
Probably no discovery in tbe bistory of discovery,
has beentraugnt with more beneficial result than
that which is popularly Known as the germ theory.
Kirchner, Schwa n, Hemholtz, Koch, Pasteur,
Budd, Huxley, Lister, Sanderson, Carpenter, Tyn-
dall, and Bastian have stmwn us that in the midst
of life, indeed, we are in death. The air we breathe,
the water we drink, teems with minute organisms
termed bacteria—active agents in the worn of
putrifaction. Huxley, in his course upon “ Dust
and Disease,” proved the organic origin of the
motes floating in London air, which are revealed
by their reflecting and scattering the light of a
beam of sunshine or electric light. When these
motes are burnt or intercepted, darkness is pro-
duced in the beam, the air being then rendered
optically pure. Germs, then, are never absent
from the conditions of our lives, unless under the
application of heat, or, in a minor degree, of fil-
tration. It is obvious, therefore, that it should
be our care to keep the air we breathe and tho
water we drink as free as possible from the con-
tamination of life germs, whose putrescent action
is the cause of disease. To do this it i9 incumbent
upon us to keep our dwellings and surroundings
free from those influences in which arise the
germs of disease. This however, is at all times
difficult to accomplish; and it is a curious circum-
stance, not as yet explained by scientific investiga-
tion, that disease is by no means the scourge only
of those who live amidst surroundings of filth and
squalor. On the contrary, it is often found that
epidemics are most severe in their action among
the well-to-do and refined classes of society. The
Jews of the Ghetto, and the denizens of St Giles,
were not those who suffered moat severely during
the periodical epidemics of cholera within the past
eighty years. Observing this, it is impossible to
escape the conclusion tnat the rude force of con-
stitution which enabled those people to resist the
influence of disease arose in their comparative
purity of blood. Hard fare and hard work are tho
natural conditions under which sound health is
secured, and the physiologic conclusion is that the
germ basis of disease is comparatively harmless in
its action upontfiose whose physical functions and
bodily systemare sound and healthy. This acknow-
ledged, we are compelled to me conclusion that
the first and most important factor in any system
of resistance to disease, resides in securing purity
of blood. That attained, all theorgansof the body
become healtny, and diseases which sMke down
the weak and feeble are powerless to harm those
who have restored to themselves the conditions of
a natural existence.
How to accomplish this end is, then, an all im-
portant question. But it is readily answered.
Science, while alert to trace the origin of disease,
is no less ceaseless in her efforts to discover pre-
ventives and curatives. And just as the skilful
farmer, by the application of those phosphates
which have been exhausted, restores to land weak-
ened by incessant croppings, the elements which
have been withdrawn from it, so the chemist
supplies those restorative agents which give back
to the human system the strength and force which
haxe been wasted. This fact is beautifully illus-
tratrated in Warner’s safe cure. In Europe and
America there are many thousands now alive who
owe this agreeable circumstance to the use of this
specific, when attacked with Typhoid and analog-
ous diseases. The direct influence of this renowned
medicine is upon the blood which is restored to its
original purity, and purged from all poisonous and
debilitating matter. Thus, in all conditions of mal-
aria, typhoid, scarlet fever, as well as when the
system is weakened by Bright’s disease, ordinary
kidney or urinary afiectlons, disorders of the liver
and so forth, a resort to Warner’s safe cure is al-
ways attended with good results. This is because
the blood is purified and fortified by the assimila-
tion of such restorative agents as nature has bene-
ficially provided. Iu view of the prevalence ot
Typhoid is these colonies at tbe present time, it is
necessary to impress upon the public intelligence
the brief facts we have referred toi Tq be armed
against the germs of disease it is necessary to purity
the blood; to do this it is only needful to do that
which we have indicated, and attend to those or-
dinary hygienic and sanitary rules which suggest
themselves to every thoughtful person.
The best internal disinfectant is Wolfe’s
Schnapps, the purest spirit known. Beware of
imitations.
“I have used Ayer’s Chebry Pectoral in
my family for several years, and do not hesitate
to pronounce it the most effectual remedy for
coughs and colds we have ever tried.— A. .f. Crane
Lake Crystal, Minn. March 18, 1882.
Here is Summer upon us, causing a mighty
thirst. Don’t fail to obtain your supply of Lemon-
ade, seltzer, Soda Water, Ginger Ale, Tonic, Potass
and Lithia Water (for Gout), of Dalm and Oertel,
AC rated Water and Cordial Manufacturers, 403 Pitt-
street. Delivered regularly in town and suburbs.' 1
Drink Wolfe’s Schnapps, the purest
stimulant in the world. Invaluable for the liver
and kidneys.


i!
MA«
ţ
frw a
Of Stout lu£ T 9 u T.-Thla favourite bran*
: ,?* the brew^* 4 great care from tne
of the celebrated firm of
Bole A rents.
special notice.
) : Ring The current month.
End
Paioß TO the Ah RIVAL
ARq B apt of
T °fiEn- DMN £HI P'tENTS, EXPECTED
h -‘E ON OR ABOUT THE lit of
li, March,
& SHAW
S&H the Balanca
i . of
J lr Sum mar Stock
at
.1 t .
Ipl R U( 101 s ia Trimmed MilHncry
duclic ns iu Uutiimmtd Straw
_j i^ UC(ions ia Children's Costumes
s *ns e u °dons iu i ace and Mus ia Cur-
PfC;gj
‘•Aij 1 U( -tior>B iu Summer D. ess Ma!e-
Ln Yh y ou • superior
rALLYM AHUfe'C 'URFD
CHILD REN S WBtK, NjNE-
v s nd SIXPENCE the TIECE
1 EACH.
Lss <Sies’ Umbrellas,
(ho
CHOICEST,
and
stock
CFIE 5 PEST
IN THE COLONIES.
326 r *" n " !
o2b Geohge-street.
s*» VASELINE.
A
'Lt U»fL t) araM(-? tl<l Preserving Horses’ Hoofs.
lS^erpJ teB > and prevents their growth.
h™th u® °rackir! eBer vative It is invaluable—pre-
an <l renders It waterproof.
qualities, uneqalled as a
o 1/141 MUBUB 111 LUU n.UDbI mu nuu
Sold by all Baddlers and btore-
ym^lAr*iL oLE AQE
Soi^ Eb URI
ItW^LEB
*o*-V.„tr e
s
HATTERS
G
mm
SHAPESS
m
i
t( .s; Wallace,
. eve *y description of
> La.:
Mercantile and
C / tationery.
H Mo * lt * 4 bI
*• Q *OKQ* §Th 1M BTDWIX
Foster s Bugle Brand.
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
l6 ' A
"' 5%: éﬁﬁﬁ
_§:‘ \Sggr’l
‘ :l 5:53
: "- of- - _..V :J
: '09:}:ka \‘ (..’:
5‘ _. - -{an 3:25,.
«31:31:24: L“ 2.;
:5 A, . - 3 ..‘w “3%,
43 ~ ’"ﬁ:\§h g1! EPA?
..‘ - ' ~ ..' . . _ v .1
I" ' B . "tr—T
5'9 a W5:
ET' -§. -, _ raga;
' “rig-ﬂ 543:?
‘ 0-7". ’32- ._.' 63"
%§§X 55" “9:?
”FL" ‘-. “3‘12!
I .r'f
;. _ -“ 5
{ap—
nr ■T¥ «a
Th« BMBT ale and STOUT In the Market
■OLD BT ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINI
MERCHANTS.
Wholesale Agents:
W. Balchin, Johnston & Co.,
Commercial Chambers,
BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
. ■
HE
REMINGTON
TYPE-WRITER.
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY, EASE,
CONVENIENCE, ECONOMY.
t3f~ THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER saves
labour, stationery, and time, writing much
faster than expert penmen, and condensing matter
to less than one-half the space occupied by pen
writing. Beautiful copies may be taken in the
usual manner in the letter-press. Merchants,
bankers, solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors,
reporters, and all men of business should use the
type-writer, and save much valuable time.
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY and CO.,
85 Clarcnce-street.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1889.
INCORPORATED bt ACT or PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital E300,00fl
Reserve Fund 1165,000
Directors :
The Hon. Blr John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chaim an.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.G.
George 8. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King. M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors :
J»s. Scroggie. Bsq.
H. B. Cohen, Esq.
GINIRAL Mawagbr;
F. A. A. Wilson.
BBORITART:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales :
Hay-market, Pyrmont, Redfern, Gosford, Nyngr n,
Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonards, and
Newcastle.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G
Geo. F. Slade, B*q.
Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of Bur land
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan
clal Agency Business on the most favourable terms
Bills discounted daily.
thiih negotiated and advances made against Woo.
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
D R RIDGES
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
EveryStorekeeper shouldgeta supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
J?' xDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
GOULET CHAMPAGNE.
OF UNRIVALLED PURITY AND
EXCELLENCE.
Thus characterised by one of the highest medioal
authorities“ Its qualities arc of a very high
order; it possesses a charming boquet, fruity and
pronounced; essentially a dry wine without attenu-
ation, and free from acidity: full and crisp."
TRAPP & ELLES,
6 Bridge Street, Sydney,
Agents for New South Wales.
D B. BOYD,
62 CASTLERE A G H-8TREET, 8YDNEY
(Upstairs),
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND 8URGERY,
Registered Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours:
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday, Wednesday;
and Saturday Evenings 7 to 9.
Deformities, Nervous, and Female Diseases a
Specialty,
G
m9
w -, a
. r k 5.1?
$4.“ (CM-r? :
WM"?
:1'9 3M 3
"I“ ‘u ,(.-3 "THY-L“ ‘
0%
Barry’s Tricopheroua.
Guaranteed to make the
ha rgrow on bald heads, to
eradicate scurf and dan-
druff, and remove all im-
purities from the scalp. It
positively prevents the hair
from falling out or turning
gray, and in every case
makes it thick, soft, glossy,
and abundant.
BARRY’S
FLORIDA WATER.
The Original and the Best.
The only perfume in the
world that has received the
endorsement of a Govern-
ment. Put up in three sizes.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
S. Hoffnung and Co.
\ USTEALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1873.
Capital—4loo,ooo with power to increase to 41,000,000
BONUSES—3O per cent, paid annually since 1873.
1 '
&
ff«ffl-Head Office*.
First Fire Society established In me ooiony on
the Mutual principle, giving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year. „ , , ,
Policy-hc’ ders are perfectly free by law from
; all liability
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates
WALTER CHURCH, Manager
Head Offices—PlTT and KING STREETS.
A. & G. HUENERBEIN,
ROYAL
PIANOFORTE
AND
Music Warehouse
318 GEORGE STREET.
Sole Agents for
John Brinsmoad & Son’s
Celebrated Pianos.
Pianos sold on terms to suit purchasers.
83?” THE LATEBT MUcIC AT HALF PRICE.
J. MURPHY’S
Central Loan and Discount
Offices,
CORNER OF KENT & LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite Georgc-etreet.
Money Lent at the Lowest Rate of Interest
In tins ciiy.
Loans from Is. to £lOOO, at lOd. in the £
per Month.
Loans on Goldand Silver Jewellery, Clothing, and
every description of Portable Property, gramed
at nates never before attempted in this Colony.
American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murphy's Central Loan and Dis-
count Offices, corner of Kent and Liverpool streets
opposite George-street.
THE ATJBTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIV B BTOCK
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital £lOO,OOO.
Head Office : Melbourne.
Victorian Directors Thomas Learmonth, Fsq.,
Chairman; John L. Dow. Esq., M.L.A.; J. F
Levien, Esq., M.L.A.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs Insured
against death.
Marine Risks accepted on Live Stock (oovering
mortality); also on Merchandise and Hulls.
New South Wales Branch : 171 Castlereagh-street.
H. S. BADGERY, Managing Director.
H. M. HAMILTON, Manager.
<v ,vV
X
0
J?'
v
**v*V „»°'
*>*♦*
.«»• .o,* . ' - „ .
Messrs. S. HOFFNTTNG & CO., Agents.
DR. BRIGHT’S PHOSPHODYNE
The only Reliable Remedy for Mental and Physical
Depression, Nervous. Debility. Incapacity for
Study, Loss of Energy Sick Headache, Indigestion,
Female Complaints, Premature Decline, and is a
marvellous medicine for renovating impaired and
broken-down constitutions. It operates on the
system without exciting care or thoußht upon the
individual as to the process. It moves the ludks,
liver, heart, kidney, stomach, and intestines, with
a harmony, vigour, yet mildness unparalleled in
medicine, and is the most powerful blood purifier
of the present day* Sold by all chemists.
Agents—KhWOn BROS.
e. b. ■oniai,
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a large and varied Stock of
FIREARMS,
manufactured by the most celebrated English
makers.
G. B. M further desires to apprise his customers
of the fact that he has been appointed AGENT for
the following - Firms:—JOHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
don; THOS. BLAND & SON., London; JOSEPH
LANG & SON, London ; CHAS. OSBORNE
CO., London.
G. B. M. is also AGENT for the eminent firm
BCTSSY & CO., London.
Game Bags, Gun Cases, Cartridge Belts, &c., and all
kinds of Sportsmen’s Requisites for the field.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
602 Georga.st.p Sydney,
Where Inspection la invited.
B FRESH FOOD AND ICE COMPANY
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
At
No. 23 Royal Arcado,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &0., with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency fo
“ KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo
nary complaints.
Fresh Food 4 Ice Co., Limited,
Hoad 08 21 Harbour-street
Stables Llverpool-street.
Factory Mittagong.
lew Cor -ral Dispensary,
*. tIKET STREET,
Two i ors frotil Evening News Office
ODposite Farmer’s).
T. JONES & CO.,
Pb. L\, M.P S., and'A.P.B., England
(LATE T. BLL’ a M.P.S.)
Prescriptiors prepa 1 > y qualified Chemists only,
at lilrouM
Branch Houses :
Crown Street. Tram terminus. Sydney,
and Suva »IJi.
Orders sent by pest promptly executed.
Medicines iorwaided (o any part of the colonies.
Pills, Powders, and Medicines (not liquid) cau
be Bent by post.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
MASON BROTHERS
"'ll
i'i
Iff
iiiWMfflSll!*
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent Street,
Sydney,
Hare always In STOCK, for SALK
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA.
AJTB
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, i ICD SPIRITS
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SON
Old Highland Whisky
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J.T.GAYEN’B
Schnapps and Genera.
A. MkLVtN and SONS’
Edinburg a Pale Ale.
Ingham’s
ftUPHOF^BIA^
||| A QuEENSIAND CuRE^I
I m Coughs,
Thomas Srfcn am;^
*“js*j.


UFA?
MAN
I^o
OP
IM^
soB
its.
c£ s
s^ c
T
in
o
v
u
m
WATCHES JEWELRY
Electro-Plats
iM'&a
\ V
BONA-FIDE REDUC
339 & 341 GEORGES" SYP
'mh
14 BoimfcCS'AE!Melbour
■ ? 'Wfe
t
z
J
A
FOR GENERAL DEBILITY AND NERVOUSNE33,
FOR INDIGESTION OR EXHAUSTION,
FOR FEVERS AND LOSS OF APPETITE,
ALL CONVALESCENTS, DRINK
At all Druggists and Chemists.
ASK TOUR GROCER FOR
COCO
J. s. FEY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney-
“An ordinary Cup contains more of the aotive properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.— Lancet.
$
■wm
•fij)
DH. O COOELL,
52 Castlereagh Street,
SYDUSY, UST.S.W.
A REGULAR GRADUATE in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Yictoria and N. S. W., whose
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all pr i vat e cases , chronic,
nervous, skin and special diseases,
DR, O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent by post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curablo cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is frankly stated. Especial attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility, '
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or indulgence,
producing some of the following effects:—Ner-
vousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples on the Pace, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of Pleasure in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Pains in the Back, Stunted Development, &c., are
treated with unparalleled success. Cures per-
manemt,"safe, and private. Symptom list free, and medicines sent by post.
Skin Diseases, Itching, Burning, Scaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptions
of evgr.Y kind, from whatever cause, promptly cured.
It is self-evident that a physician paying particular attention to a class of cases attains great skill,
and physicians in regular practice all over the country knowing this, frequently recommend cases to
this oldest office in Australia, wncro every known appliance is resorted to, and tlie proved good
remedies of all ages and countries are used. On account of the great number of cases applying the
charges are kept low—often lower than is demanded by others, if you secure the skill, and get a
speedy and perfect life cure, that is the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free. Call on or
address ' DOCTOR J. O CONNELL, ®
52 Castlcreagli Street (ground floor), Sydney.
saellafcle
PBOCURABLB ONLY AT THB _*|]
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPO* 1
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.^
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGON^
California and Eastern Buckbnard VagK
tor BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN fj,
WILLIAM FLEMING!, Marchant B/J
33 & 24 Olarenoe-street. Srdnev (nnw Pnttv’fi
B
OBSBT BUTCHER * O.U
(Late William Long).
mr WINB AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
684 GEORGE STREET.
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Oountrv Order* receive nroract attention.
GOOLALTA «
SILVER MEDAL B 1
CELLARS and BOD® 1
354 G-eorge^
(Beneath Palinß’ 8 "' -
HOLLIN6 & SPANGENBERG PIANOS.
ZEITZ LEIPZIG
(Piano Makers to the Imperial Court of Germany).
PRIZE MEDAILIRON-FRAMED OVER-
STRUNG PIANOFORTES.
This high-class Pianoforte combines the Latest
Improvements with Economy of Price, and can
be had on application to the appointed agency,
€r. J. WELLS,
I, Hunter Street. Sydney,
from whom mav be had prices and terms to meet
all demands. Also, all kinds of German makers,
Bords.
fSr THE STANDARD ORGANS,
at very low prices and terms.
G.J. WELLS,
1 friunter-streetp Sidney.
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS
AFTEA BEFORE
r;
Copyrighted.
iIOSSTACHS and wmsms.
Boyd's Beard Elixir did this, and
WiU do i* or* cither bald head or
bare f*c.e. Eorcea heavy Mans-
tacnc in f rom'Zto 4 weeks and never
fails, iv),000 young men already
wear full beards , having used 1 to
BEFOR3 AFTER
CopjriQhied.
Packets la. 6fii.
3 pkt,. No injury, easily applied , certain in effect, _
each, 3 for 3*. 6d.,post paid, 6ent under cover, free from observation •
'Addrest, Frank Douglaa, Sole Agent, Box 730, G.F.0., Sydney,N.S.W‘
P. KIEBY,
from the late Mr. Jambs Curtis,
°CT3a.d.erta,ls:er,
84 HVNTES * PHILLIP BTRSBTS.
FCNBURALS NBATLY BXHOUTBD.
N.B.— Mr. Kirby was In the employ of the
Curtis for sixteen (18)
Mr. Janies Curtis for sixteen
Manager for over ten (10) years.
years;
BLAKE’S IM
STEAM *XJr
H. P. GREGORY *
17 PITT ST
SYDNEY.
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOB
and have In Stock and to
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SERVICE
MINING PUMPS A
COMBINED AIR & CIRCULAR
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING P
SIND FOB FBICES AND hbb F '
CATALOGUES A
4
LATB ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
Manufacturer of all kinds of /Era ted Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Vlgorl**
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
81 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. §.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Go/o Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also, another Go/a Medal for Liqueurs , Bid er \
