

The Bulletin
NEW SERIES
f
asd
JL < 2 5 per cent. discount off Ist
p rices
t 25 per o nt discount oil Jisfc
price .
f he Queen- The Favorite
af£ iano j*dS^» f £ avor ites
1
f
■r
mo
asdf
THE BIGGEST SUCCESS
PResekTcehtubl.
liberal Time Payment System
NICHOLSON S CORNER, GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
At one-third and one-fourth
the marked price!
& CO., 325 George Street, Sydney.
u and Saw-Mill Machinery.
i ' GREGORY and CO.,
Are SOLE AGENTS for
& CO., CINCINNATI
°*SRf A
s LA ‘ Rge STOCK of their celebrated machines.
Tr for wood-working and saw-milling in stock.
®®ad for Catalogues and Prioes.
PITT STREET, Circular Quay, Sydney.
%
; | 7
igggj
rd
iwfi sous
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
CQiJqTje rOR „
-I- tobacco^
• Svrinaw possess the largest Factory, Manufacture more
>rnhemi* Tobacco, and consume more American Lieai
"WHS® ,* Sir Roger, Champion, and Diison’a Cut Tohaooos.
Bray XjJLol&tia.ear»
24 O’Connell-street, Sydney,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK DEALERS.
Complete Photographic Outfits, in *reat variety, from «». Catalogues post free.
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTO6RAPHY.
SOLE AGENTS for BAKER'S DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and RAPID In the Market,
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies
OOTS
OOTS
T. WHLIAM tk CO.,
IMPORTERS OF
BRITISH & FOREIGN BOOTS & SHOES;
Also, Manufacturers of
The finest quality of Goods in th above lines
278 and 412 George-si., Sydney.
S3OH


ASK POE, COLONIAL MADE
WIRE
i• . "
PROOF
$
PROOF
NETTING
CHEAPER THAN INPORTED.
■ f ... MANUFACTURED BY
JOHN LYSAGHT, Limtd.,
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SIDNEY.
SCHWEITZER’S COCOATINA.
Anti-Dyspeptic or Cocoa Chocolate Powder.
GUARANTEED PURE SOLUABLE COCOA OF THE FINEST QUALITY, WITHOUT SUGAR OR
: ADMIXTURE.
The Faculty pronounce It the “most nutritious, perfectly digestible beverage for Breakfast
Luncheon, or Supper;" and invaluable for Invalids and Young Children.
Being absolutely “all Cocoa,” with the excess of fat extracted, is four times the strength of prepara-
tions thickened yet weakened with arrowroot, starch, &c., and in reality cheaper than such
mixtures, a teasp jonful to a breakfast cup cosiing less than one halfpenny.
COCOATINA is the best Cocoa for India and the Colonies, keeping for years in aU climates, being in
a Concentrated form. Made instantaneously with boiling water, and palatable without milk.
Celebrated for remarkable sustaining Properties. Specially adapted for early Break-
fasts. Adopted as a Medical Comfort in the Royal Navy.
Retailed by Chemists, Grocers, &c.,~in Air-tight Tins, at Is. 6cZ., 35,, ss. Gd., Ac.
■j Wholesale by the Sole Proprietors,
SCHW. ITZHa & CO., 10 ADAM-BTREBT, STRAND, W.C., LONDON,
AND ALL WHOLESALE HOUSES.
P. R. LARKIN,
Importer of Wines and Spirits,
* Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just completed extensive additions
to his WHOLESALE and RETAIL BOTTLE DEP YRTMEN ', which is now replete with
a well-assorted stock of the Best Brands of Wines and Spirits, personally selected
, by the proprietor.
He can therefore confidently recommend the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, hopes to
merit the patronage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
ENGLISH ALES and STOUT, OF ALL BRANDS, Is. EACH PER QUART.
THE FINEST BRANDS cf WHISKIES, BRANDIES, POUTS, SHERRIBB, CLARETS, and CHAM-
‘•£. PAGNEB, at the Lowest Pric;s obtainable ia Sydney.
A trial will convince you. Special Prices for Cases of the above.
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, all returns being
allowed for. &T Cas sof Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at the Railway
Station or any wharf in the city, or any country station, Free of Charge.
P, R. Larkiu wishes to oall} our attention to bis famous JS3 Cases, containing the following:
3 Bottle* BKA>DY
1 Bottle JA.MA.IOA. RUM
J Bofctie FORT WINE
3 Bottles WHISKY
1 Bottle WOJLFK’S SCHNAPPS
1 Bottle SHERRY W'NE
TOTAL-18.
7 Bottles LOWNDES’ RUM
1 Bottle OLD TOM
(fuwt. .L-ot mo boat qut-.i*y, and Have
To prevent delay, please make Post Office
The articles contained in P. I. ... sA* : 'd Casesi are all
Sven perfect satisfaction to r\‘” ‘'Sr'"' ::v 3ry instance,
rdera payable at the Hayinarket Posa office.
Kindly Note the Address—
P, fL LARKIN, Wholesale A Retail Wine & Spirit Merchant A Importer §
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL, George and Gipps Streets, H atm arret, Sydney.
wt»oi . aio and Single Bottle Departments, 778 and 780 George-street, Sydney.
McLEAN BROS. R/OG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS, * «
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
o
<fl
o
IRONMONGERS
5
2
X
<P
<*/
o
%
REG?
*
£
>*,>
£**
SPECIALITIES:
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint,
A ibo Carbon Light.
ELECTRO-PLATED WARS, CUTLERY. TOOLS.
- Gas Cooking StoresLeonis Fletcher’s, Jeans and Walker’s.
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &C- &C.
asd
HP
S BOOT:
i
SYDNEY
EITHER FOR
EorQUALITYI
_ 0
CEORCE S
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
MXTTAGONa.
for Commercials
PETER MURPHY, Proprietor.
jptopd Table and BeWiiftble Terms,
GUINNESS’ EXTRA STOUT.
rIBSI QUALM Y.
II
*y
(riitfUM
m
iuuu<
w&t
m
m
IRV
U
lil(Hi>
imujijs
piiltifl
BiSs’ PALE ALE.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES :
W. BALGHIN, JOHNSTON & CO.,
Commercial Chambers, Hond-st., Sydney.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION,
LONDON,
By Speoial Appointment.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS, R. J. ALCOCK, G. C. CHALMERS, R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
IRON, HARDWARE, AND MACHINERY MERCHANT
Importers ol
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING
RAILWAY ArfD OTHER CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL USPtgjT
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDBR°
MATERIALS. SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, &o.
1
bris^i
Sole Agents for FARMER. ROBEY, and BROWN’S CELEBRATED g
ENGINES ; READING IRON WORKS’ AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS and FAX®
WM. TAYLOR and CO.’S Celebrated OILS and PAINTS.
WT Pn«« xaats ana catalogues rurmsaed on application.
BAR, RRATR, SHRRT. *na HOOP mON ; OAX.VANXSRD COB.RTIOA.TSD> and PDAIN IKON
BBWST anCL i*BBS ORATED ZINC ». TIN PTIATRB ; PIO IRON ana LXAJ) ; OILS, TAINTB. and
BROSVTW ARB, ISSOISG Witt*, TfOOLTACK.fi, aH.KA.RiNO 8B??LIKa ; BDTLOBRB' TRON-
KIONSSKY, 'RvVLLKD « nDSLDSBs, fOMABIii, , uni BKMI-TIXW) aK&INKS, VKHTTCAL
ana ftOR IOKTAL ROIBK&f, STM, AM »n« oto«, 'PTJ'MnPB, LATHIS, VLANINU, SHAPING,
Stn-A X>B.XA.X.TOO M A_CSIVNSSS - STttAM ViAMiAaM, *NUlN»*aa’ BRASo B'OUNDB.Y.
S? ATata’i: BiOßßau BHASTOSO, AiVl Voters s A. "V tttt, «k.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & C °”
Head Warehouse
Iron an I Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Olio* -
- 64 YORK STREET,
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HARBOUR STREET, DARIR* W
SYDNEY: n lTll^
Bi GRAOBOHUBOH
STAR & GARTER FAMILY H°
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
ig close to Post and Telegraph Offio®*
lines and Commercial Gentlemen, i* irst
ffIHIB Hotel Is centrally situated, beta]
JL Superior Accommodation for HuaL<» «
The most Comfortable and Commodious Private Bar in the city
THE GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL,
Charlotte-place and Georoe-street.
K. HAIIEY’S
1 DOZEN CASE
Of
assorted
WINES, SPIRITS, anil MALT LIQUORS,
DELIVERED ANY PART OF CITY FREE.
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer.
Order the ldoz. case as you ploase from the list of
low prices as under, viz. :
Robertson’s Walker or Royal Blend
Scotch Whiskies .... ... 4s. per bottle.
Dunville’s Shamrock and Burko’s
XXX Irish Whiskios ... ... 4s.
Brian Boru Whisky...
Hennessy’s * Cognag
.. 3s.
.. ss.
.. Os.
.. 4s.
.. 4s.
..4s.
Is. Gd. & 2s. Gd.
Square Gin
Jamaica Rum...
Red Heart d 0...
Flasks Brandy and Whiskies
English Ales and Stout, best brands Is'.
or 11s 6d. per dozen
Port Wine, for connoisseurs and
invalids ... ... ... ... Cs.
Port Wine and Sherry, from ~. 2s.
Best brands Whisky or Brandy
from 20s. pep gallon.
£3 CASE ALSO A SPECIALITY.
Marks’s Ale, Porter, and Lager Beer
Certificate of merit of the first-class ami silver meda
awarded at the Calcutta Exhibition, and patronised by hi
Excellency the Governor s household, (Id. per bottle. A]
iirst-cla.BB Goods. One trial will prove, the fact Bottle I)t
parti,lent of the GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL, Cfirne
George-street and Charlotte-place. Orders by post solicited
Mr,s. Hanney attends personally on lady patrons.
_ BRIGHT’S phosphobyne
The only Reliable Remedy for Mental andPhysiea
Depression, Nervous, Debility. Incapacity foi
Study, Loss of Energy Sick Headache, Indigestion
Female Complaints, Premature Decline, and la t
marvellous medicine for renovating impaired ant
broken-down constitutions. It operates on th<
system without exciting care or thought up on the
individual as to the process. It moves the lungs
liver, hea I,kidney stomach, and intestines, witt
™^SSS? ony * Y ROUr yet mildness unparalleled ir
medicine, andlj ;11 most powerful blood puriflei
of the present day Sold by all chemists.
Agents— Eluott Bbos.
0
MACHINE
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE STOCK
WITH ALL
NEWEST DESIGNS
lowestcost
cs* l,f ’
e kc«“
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS,
r(YR, L
O^ 1
■ESTIMATED
Sydney:
PITT STREET.
#*ngrf* r ’
king
~pb.es t
* ton ziZot*<?*%**
toe found - > y
LIFE,” for the speedy °* Aen ef> K e »ie d '
Lost Manhood, J*® B * flt free*
this book will be sent
11A1B UUUtv tjaa*
penny stamps. Address


TEH BULLETIN
Vol 4 -No. 165 -New Serin.
BATUBDAY, JULY 10, 1886.
Pilot—Od.
“The Right Honorable” W. B. Dailey.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JULY 10, 1886.
A n old acquaintance masquerades this week
in unaccustomed guise. “ Plain Bill,” late
of the Soudan, now figures as the “Right
Hon. William Bbde Dalley,” the only
member of Her Majesty’s Privy Council in
the Australian colonies. The alleged
honour thus conferred has been hailed with
a burst of maudlin enthusiasm from the
Australian daily press, and on all sides con-
gratulations have poured in upon him, the
Plain William of days gone by. The
unique nature of the distinction has been a
subject of ceaseless comment, and Mr. Dal-
ley is held up in marked contrast to the
whisky knights and the motley horde of
miserable C M.G.’s who loaf at every street-
corner in our Australian cities. To us it
certainly appears that in this respect, and
in this alone, the new Privy Councillor de-
serves the warmest felicitations. It is some-
thing to escape the badge of Sfc. Michael
and St. George, especially in these degener-
ate days when the spurs of knighthood
jingle behind the counter of the corner
grocery, the corner grog-shop, and the
corner loan-office, and the honour is won
by aldermanic gluttony instead of on the
battle-field. The Brummagem nobility of
Australasia is the vanguard of British
Jingoism, and the titles which its members
sport with so much oomplacency have, as a
rule, been conferred in order to confirm
their loyalty to the moth-eaten traditions
by which it is hoped to bind the man-
hood of the colonies for good and all
to the effete and decaying aristocracy
of Great Britain. The colonial knights
are almost without exception traitors
to the cause of Australian Democracy.
They have been bought, and the miserably
low price paid for them has marked the
contempt in which tney are held. But in
some few cases a barren distinction has been
offered in gratitude for favours gone by
rather than in payment for favours to
come, and this is Mr. Dalley’h case. The
unusual honour with which he has been
distinguished marks at once the greatoes i
of his services to Britain and the crushing
weight of the calamity he brought down
upon Australia. It is the “ Man of Soudan ”
whom the Sovere’gn delights to honour,
and the “ Man of Sedan ” whose title
sounds strangely like his—the man who
threw away a glorious empire in a single
summer day—never made a greater blunder
than that to which Mr. Dalle? owes his
elevation.
* * *
“Save me from my friends” are words
which the new Privy Councillor might
well use in his unaccustomed position. He
is in name a Liberal of the Liberals, and yet
the Globe, the journal which is supposed to
be the voioe of the Radical party in New
South Wales, sinks into abject Toryism, and
is forced to drag its idol down to its own
level, as it congratulates him upon the
distinction he has achieved.
“ He knows nothing,” it says, “ of Australian
interests when they clash with the projects or
necessities of the Empire. . . . Mr. Dalley
has throughout keen the councillor of the Em-
pire, and not the Australian politician. His posi-
tion is perfectly intelligible and eminently satis-
factory when compared with that of some other
statesmen who blow the trumpet of Imperialism
one day and twang the horn of local interests the
next, and stili make boast of a patriotic consis-
tency. The only possible logical positions are—
for CLesar or for self. Mr. Dalley goes for
CLesar, and obtains Cjesar’s reward. ”
Nothing could be truer than these words,
and no condemnation could be more crush-
ing either to the politiciau cr the patriot.
Yet this blighting anathema is meant as
praise. “He knows nothing of Australian
interests when they clash with the projeots
or necessities of the Empire,” and yet the
man of whom this is written is himself an
Australian, conspicuous among the trusted
representatives of the Australian people,
and the guardians of their honour and their
liberty. The proudest boast that can be
made on his behalf is that he has fanatically
sold his country, and done his best to make
a whole continent subservient to the tra-
ditions and prejudices of the Empire, the
instrument to be utilised in its unjust
quarrele, and the weapon with which it is
to enforce foreign tyranny aid prop up
brutalising despotism. Only the blind and
bigoted devotion whioh here masquerades
under the name of loyalty oould excuse in
MR. T. WILLMETT,
President of the North Queensland Separation League.
even the slightest degree the atrocious
wrong which Mr. Dallet committed when
he called upon free Australia to aid in
riveting fetters on the oppressed tribes of
the Upper Nile. And yet, strangely enough,
Australia glories in its shame, and glories
in the man whose blundering brought this
shame upon its head. Mr. Dalley went for
CLesar, and CLesar has thrown him his re-
ward as a bone is thrown to a dog. His
elevation is the result of an undertaking
which history will declare to have had but
one redeeming feature—the pitiful, degrad-
ing, contemptible failure, which saved a
national disgrace from becoming black
enough to be designated a national crime.
* * *
No one can doubt, however, that Impei’ial
selfishness has done well when it selected Mr.
Dallev for a rarely-cocftrred honour. In
the opinion of our British rulers every man
has his price, aud they naturally considered
that such a man as tbis would require some
higher reward than that generally dispensed
to colonial statesmen. For orce, however,
they were wrorig. Mr. Dallby’s whole
course of action we believe to have beeD-
the result of sincere conviction, and for that
reason we declare his politieal existence to
be a dire national calamity. If he could be
bought in the cause of Australian demo-
cracy, his brilliant talents would make even
his venal services wtll worth any price that
his colony could pay, but he is not for sale,
and the man who throws away his country’s
honour and interest for conscience sake is a
living disaster inflicted upon the land. He is
an Australian by birth, and yet he is more
thoroughly English Jingo than almost any
Englishman in the British Isles. Brought
up under an Imperial regime, he has breathed
jn, from his earliest youth, the worst form
of Toryism, like tbat bumptious autocrat,
Sir Jambs Martin, and many others who rank
among the shining lights of Australia. He
has learned t > worship the system of British
monarchy through viewing it from afar
off, where only its glitter is visible, and the
misery on which it is founded islost to sight.
His loyalty is widely different from lhe
ignorant, brutal Toryism which debases the
Legislative Council of New South Wales,
and while a grander, it is a terf ’g m re
disastrous sentiment. But his privu...
acter as a high-minded, generous man, a
cultivated gentleman, and a worthy patron
of literature, will have an effect in his new
position which would probably be alto-
gether inoompreheosible to the majority of
Englishmen. The simple fact that he bears
a title conferred by the Queen will, among
the ignorant, do much to lift these
“ honours ” from the mire of contempt
and public derision into which they had
hopelessly sunk. The mere circumstance of
titles being conferred on such men as
Graham Berry, the Radical renegade, and
Robert Stout, that strange compound cf
Liberalism, Toryism, blatant infidelity, and
noisy toetotalism, who is dragged as a cap-
tive at the chariot-wheels of his sturdy
Treasurer, to say nothing of many ap-
pointments [of a still more question-
able character, was beginning to open
the eyes of the colonists to the fact
that honours are distributed not to
those who have served Australasia well and
truly, but to such as promise to be pliant
instruments in the hands of the London
lords and princelings. The fact of Mr.
Dallev being named a Privy Councillor
marks no departure from this unvarying
rule, but the private character of the man
whom the Queen delights to honour, will
serve to make people think the tinsel bribes,
which are so profusely distributed, are
something else than a badge of degradation
after all. The aot is merely a part of the
unceasing, and so far very successful, Jingo
conspiracy, by which it is hoped that Aus_
tralian bone and sinew, to say nothing of
Australian wealth, may be utilised “in
time of need ” to prop up the ruined tyranny
of which Britain is already weary. Lord
Cabington’s appointment as Governor of
New South Wales is another item in the
same scheme, for the colony had become
disgusted with an almost unbroken suc-
cession of useless viceregal shadows, and it
was felt necessary, [by [way of reconciling
this nation to the chain, to send out some
one whose social qualities would make the
people forget the utter worthlessness of the
system of Imperial Government which he
represents. >
m • e
The new Privy Councillor has long sinoe
lost all claim—if he ever possessed any—to
rank as a representative Australian. The
man who bears such a title must be the
leader of the coming generation, not merely
the voice of that which is fast passing
away ; and the principles on which Mr.
Dalley’s whole career has been founded
are a sort of which even his contemporaries
are tired, and from which his successors will
turn with disgust. To the future Australian,
the political bigotry, which is now termed
loyalty, will be as incomprehensible as the
mysteries of Obi; its adherents will be
classed with the gallant fanatics who fought
to maintain intolerance and tyranny in the
days of the Stuarts. For the present, how-
ever, Australia is governed to a great extent
by men who are English either by birth or
sympathies—by the class who howl for the
throne and the “good cause” of the
Empire at municipal gorges and “loyal”
gatherings, and of these Mr. Dallev is an
advanced type. But the time is fast ap-
proachiog when there will be in the Aus-
tralian colonies 500 Australians to one
Briton, aad 1000 Republicans to one who
either cares for or sympathises with Im-
perial England. It is the dream of madmen
that this great continent, animated with
the strength and enthusiasm of youth, and
with resources sufficient to build up a dozen
mighty commonwealths, should consent to
be bound for ever to the festering corpse of
monarchy, and should obey for ever an
absent and invisible Sovereign who claims
its allegiance on tho score of traditions
wniun grew in dark ages at the remote
antipodes. Not even Mr. Dalley’s unques-
tioned ability, nor the ability of a hundred
such statesmen as he, could ever bring these
transplanted traditions to vigorous growth in


this land; and in times to come those who
read the history of the pitiful fiasco whioh
first brought the Right Honorable William
Bede Dalley to European fame will stand
amazed that suoh a man should have
proudly built his! reputation on the at-
tempted butohery of a few brave but badly-
armed Arab patriots in the Soudan.
* * * ..
Amid a multitude of weightier considera-
tions there is also a ludicrous side to the
new Privy Councillor’s sudden elevation.
Among the supporters of his policy the
fiction seems current that in his new posi-
tion he will bring his experience to bear
upon the concerns of the Empire and take a
noble position among British statesmen.
It is convenient, in this moment of tem-
porary elation, to forget that the Privy
Council is almost as obsolete and quite as
powerless as that of the famous Ten which
ruled in mediaeval Yenioe. Nearly a life-
time has elapsed since the Queen summoned
together the 200 white men who are sup-
posed to guide the destinies of Great and
Greater Britain, and even then they met
not to give advice but to listen to the an-
nouncement of Her Majesty’s set purpose,
and to bow in solemn acquiescence. Mr.
Dalley has been promoted to the rank of a
councillor who gives no counsel and who
would not be listened to if he did; he has
been “graciously” appointed to the billet of
a voice crying in the wilderness, with the
express understanding that he is not to cry
loud enough to be heard; and he has the
privilege at state ceremonies of walking in
front of Sir Judas Berry, and some distance
behind that respectable though rather
bloodthirsty nigger, the Shah of
who in his rank of a knight of the
Garter will elbow Mr. Dalley to the
rear. But while his position as a dead
Councillor is humiliating, to be a live one
would be utterly ruinous. It may be plea-
sant to imagine that the appointment has
been made because Her Majesty feels the
urgent necessity of having at least one
brainy adviser to prop up her throne; but
supposing that such were the case, Mr.
Dalley would require to bolster up the
reeling Empire by means of the Eastern
Extension Company’s cable, at an annual
cost which would utterly wreok his for-
tunes. The one chano© of greatness which
his position offers lies in the possibility that
some day a terrible catastrophe may sweep
off the Cabinet, the House of Commons, and
the balance of the Privy Council at one fell
swoop, and, in that oase, Victoria and
Dalley would between them run the
Imperial maohine until further orders.
But this contingency is, after all, rather
remote, and until it occurs the Right
Honorable W. B. Dalley will wield no
m»ore potent soeptre than did Plain Bill of
the Soudan.
* * *
On the whole, therefore, we are not jubi-
lant over Mr. Dalley’s elevation. W.e do
not for a moment suppose that the new
honour will make his Jingoism a shade more
pronounced —indeed, to do so would be
hardly possible—but the hope of suoh a
reward as he has obtained will buy venal
men body and soul to the unpatriotic party
whioh desires to sacrifice Australia on the
altar of Imperial Federation, and waste Aus-
tralian blood and wealth in the unjust
quarrels of England. Rather a thousand
times would we have seen the title which
Mr. Dalley now holds conferred on one of
the grovelling, whisky-selling, whisky-drink-
ing K.C.M.G.’s. Further, we would be among
the first to congratulate Charley Roberts
on his elevation to a dukedom, or the newly-
laurelled champion blatherskite on a pro-
spective marquieate, feeling fully convinced
that the honours on had been well be-
hutwe decline to felicitate William
Bede D-lley on having stooped to earn, or
stoopedto receive the title which has been
fastened’ike a badge of servitude round his
neck. He had two courses open to him,
and he deliberately chose the worse. It was
in hispower tc he one of the B reat leaders of
a party whioh would insist on the adoption
of a policy of and progress in Austra-
lia, and claim *>r us the right to abstain
from sheddingblood in unjust quarrels-a
right enjoyed by the great American Re-
public, the mightiest commonwealth the
world has ever seeD, whioh celebrated the
110th anniversary of its emancipation
from I imperial chains a few days ago—but
he preferred to be known as the man who
first aroused a spirit of;military aggression in
the colonies, and who taught the lesson that
glory was to be obtained by attacking the
feeble and the oppressed. He went for
Caesar, and truly he has gained Cesar’s
reward.
The Freedom of Contract.
Thus an out-spoken correspondent Your views
on the rights of labour question are altogether
wroni Every Labourer has the right of makiDg
a contract for his labour, and any unions made to
stoD him from doing this are opposed to the Con-
stitution, for Parliament itself cannot make a law
to take away from a man his freedom to make
any contract he likes.”
The mistake of our correspondent is a very
common one. It is frequently stated that no law
can prevent a man from doing as he likes with
his own, and that he has full liberty to make any
contract or agreement he chooses. But in reality
£his liberty is in complete subjection to the laws,
I tie State does restrain its exercise when pre-
ial to the public good. Thus a man has no
r to make a contract whioh shall prevent
ier from engaging in business, although the
• for consideration 'may wish to make such
reement. A limited restraint is all that can
lectually imposed. Thus, if A signs a bond
orting to restrain him from re-engaging in
less under a penalty payable to B, such a bond
out qualification as to place is void and woith-
Freedom to make such a contract does not
, for it is against the publio policy that men
Id be restrained from trading. Nor can a man
ain away his equity of redemption at the time
aking a mortgage, and any contract or agree-
t for that purpose is entirely void. A com-
er instance of the restriction of the liberty to
e a contract is noticed In the interposition of
law to prevent a person from purchasing
jr exoept between stated hours. The publi-
s freedom to contract with purchasers for the
of his goods is striotly limited by laws made
the general welfare of the community. The
is that this freedom of contract, like all other
rties, can only be exercised when It is not re-
cant to the policy of the State.
* * *
mehing the right of unions to interfere with
liberty of the individual, we would atsistour
ic by quoting the S.F. Argonaut in his favour
ollows:
The labour market, like all others, is governed
;he law of supply and demand. Capital should
be permitted to forestall it by any conspiracy,
Labour to interfere with it by any.organi-
on.”
each sentence here plausible words conceal
ual facts. It is presenting a false analogy to
ak of the labour “market.” A market is a
co where buyer and seller meet on equal terms
[ther is obliged to contract, and will only do so
m favourable terms. The value of commo-
ies in such a esse is regulated only by supply
1 demand, and the prices vary accordingly. But
bour and Capital are upon quite another foot
■« The workman is compelled to sell his ser-
ies, for he rarely has resources whioh enable
a to exist even for a short time in Idleness. The
ployer, on the contrary, can] look up his money
* years in any one of a thousand investments,
before he is able to dictate terms to those who
mid obtain employment. The price of labour is
?ulated by the cupidity of capitalists and the
cessities of the workman. Starvation pangt
rce the latter to accept starvation wages; and
e prospect of huge profits induces the capitalist
pay what are now regarded as high rates. The
-oalled “ labour-market ” is a meeting of thost
ro must sell with those who are free to buy oi
it as they choose. The one class is plainly inde
ndent; the other acts under the fierce compul
, n of necessity. And the greater the necessity
the worker, the more miserable and inadequati
the sum he willingly accepts. It is to the interest
erefore of the employers that the sellers ol
bour should be reduced to starvation, for everj
Ivance on the road to destitution means a corre-
ionding reduction in the wage demanded. Under
ich circumstances the agreement between tbt
irties is not a contract; it is a surrender of thi
eak and helpless to his inevitable conqueror,
nd when men relied upon this “ freedom of con-
•act” and fought Bingly.it was found that thos<
f their comrades who were destitute of resource!
mepted for their labour terms not in accorc
ith its productive value, but in proportion t(
leir own distress. The wage in this case was thei
lade the standard by which all labour of that
lass was measured, and the whole body of workei t
-ere brought down to the level of the mos;
estitute among them. It became apparem
ben that the vaunted freedom of contract
ras a delusion. Fair contracts can onlj
e made between parties equally independent
nd [until Labour is organised and federated, ii
pill never meet its present enemy but future ally
ipon equal terms. Labour must organise or b<
rushed. Capital already is, and always has beeD
irganised; the union of its members is effecte<
w their possession of money. No capitalis'
yould be generous enough to knowingly giv
nore to his workman than others of his class ar<
riving under similar conditions. That men ot
;he contrary are, or were formerly, s.parate units
s consequent upon the fact that the wage each ii
forced to accept must be measured by his owj
proxlmity;to starvation, not by the sum his more
fortunate fellows may be enabled to obtain
Capital is organised naturally, and until Labour 1
artificially consolidated, the freedom of its con-
tract with its present opponent will be similar b
that which Franoe enjoyed when, with her territory
In the possession of the Prussians, she contractee
to pay away her milliards to the conqueror.
* • ■
To return to our correspondent. He asserts tba
law cannot take away a man’s freedom to maki
any contraot he likes. It will probably be news ti
him to know that in mest parts of the Britisi
territory a workman is not permitted by an;
document or bond, to sell to his, employe
his right to sue for compensation if he i
ii-jured by negligence or fault 'of the master,
The law recognises that the weaker party must b
protected against his own necessitous condition
and just as it prevents a mortgagor from sur
rendering his rights of redemption, so also i
denies to a workman any freedom to contrac
away his right to claim compensation for injurie r
h e may receive in his ma ster’s service. The rea -
son of the interference is similar in each oase
Were the mortgagor or labourer, free to re
nounce bis right to redemption in the one case, 01
compensation in the other, his necessitous condi
tion would enable the other party to force him tc
do so. Until Labour is organised it will ever be
weaker than its federated antagonist— Capital.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Judas of Radicalism.
The Bulletin's cartoon on this hero does not
affect to praise Sir Graham Berry, K.C.M.G., hut
all who have followed the career of that exceed-
ingly clever politician will admit that the allusion
to a traitor who hanged himself 1850 years ago is a
perfectly just one. Sir Graham has yet to receive
36 other pieces of silver tinsel. These wi
he obtained upon introduction to “ Wales ; at
jingo meetings when he prophesies Imperial
I at gatherings of the holders and wor-
i of wealth ; and at sumptuous banquets
,y rich Tories and toadies. Even in his
•gradation, contempt for the man must be
l with pity for his fall. No Colonial poli-
ias ever had fairer assurance of a noble
Gbaham Berry, the Radical, held the
1 future of Victoria in the hollow of his
He could have laid the enduring foun-
of a magnificent Democracy ; he might
mured to all the rights for whioh he so
ltly pleaded when he was singled out as the
nt of Radicalism in Victoria. But with
oame the lust of Imperial honours: he won
tory only to betray the cause. Conservatism
s Cleopatra— he vanquished it in fight
be overoome by its allurements. Hence-
-3lr Graham Berry will be a prominent
in Australian politics, for his treachery does
Drive him of his undoubted talents, but he
oped from the high pedestal which he once
ed; he will be merely a toady among
■, a groveller among other grovellers-that Is
n of the prioe for which he has betrayed the
of National Greatness. He might have
i Washington —he is now only a shade
Heaton.
■ ♦
Nominee Meddlers.
legislative Councillors of New South Wales,
>ent upon demonstrating their worse than
aness as a part of the Constitution, never
n opportunity of proclaiming their senile
ility and political bigotry. If a spoke ean
tin the wheel of progress a majority of fos-
drivellers in the Council can be confidently
upon to do it; if a useful reform is desired
ominee Chamber stands ready to deny it
time. But during the last fortnight the
sillors, exhilarated by their mischievous suo-
-1 the past, have gone a step farther and com-
-1 political saorilege by interfering with a
ire, the Stamp Bi'l, imposing taxation. The
ah House of Lords, strong in the conscious-
)f hereditary power, would not dare to do
The principle affirmed in the 14th century,
he power of taxation is dependent upon re-
lation of the persons by whom the tax will
aid, is strictly regarded by the peers,
their own exclusive right over money
is most jealously guarded by the Com-
. The Lards may throw out, but may
alter or amend any measure imposing
ion. Yet, in spite of the example set by
English Lords, New South Wales councillors
e term of mischievousness is limited to the life
ch nominee, presumptuously dare to impose
;ion upon people whom they never repre-
id. And the action of the members of the
tentative chamber is but little less culpable,
saw their privilege trampled upon by nomi-
of the Alexander Campbell type, yet did
ing to resent this arrogant impertinence be-
laying the Bill aside and introducing
her in its place. They betrayed rank cowardice
i they should have ttood firmly on their
b. The amendments made by the Council
Id have been struck out, the Bill restored to its
nal form, and returned to its antiquated muti-
■s. Accepting the rebuff as they did, the mem-
of the Assembly have established a precedent
•h will be used against them when the inevit-
contest between nominees and representa-
-3 takes place. The incident is disgraceful to
l parties. The arrogance and apathy, inso-
e and cowardice displayed therein, compete
lly for the public contempt.
+
Vale, Von Mueller—Vale, Hayter !
: new regulations of the Victorian Civil Service
making a happy despatch in the cases of many
>ers whom Mr. Gillies’ benighted Govern-
it will never be able to replace. A number of
tlemen holding important positions are to be
eked ” at the close of 1886, on the ground that
j have attained the age of 60 year?, and among
m W e find with amazement the names of Baron
s Mueller, the Government Botanist, who, as a
ntist, is known all over the civilised world, and
H. H. Hayter, the famous Statist. With re-
d to the former, it is possible the rulers of Vio-
la, whose own botanical knowledge does not
end far beyond tomatoes and irrigated cab-
les, regard him simply as a bloated aristocrat
h a mania for vegetables, but it will probably
a few centuries before the services of another
ih man are placed at the colony’s disposal,
e vast stores of knowledge possessed by
i Baron would have gained him a high
iltion in any eountry in Europe, and there
might have become a centenarian if he
ased, without being displaced, but in Vic-
•ia he has been for years throwing his pearls
f ore — W ell, the animal is so well known that it
rot worth mentioning, As for Mr. Hayter, he
the only statist of note in Australis, and the
Acuity of replacing him is shown by the fact
it in New South Wales a similar officer was
aght for during several j ears without success,
-en now that Mr. Cogiilan has been ap-
inted he finds it necessary to consult
e gentleman whom Mr. Gillies is so
xious to get rid of, in order to gain an insight
to the work required in his new position. Un-
rtunately, however, the new rule does net seem
apply to Premiers, cormorants, governors, and
her officials who might be easier spared than Mr.
ayter or Baron Von Mueller, otherwise there
ight be some hope of sending Mr. Gillies him-
lf into private life one day to the great relief of
ie sorrowing nation.
Got ’em Again.
A fierce attack of Imperial jimjams still
(filets the majority of Australian newspapers and
oliticians. It became epidemic just before the
cudan coup, and, fomented by the gift of Im-
erial distinctions, titled Governors, and the flat-
sry of Jingoism, has now, we are certain, reached
s orisis. it is impossible for us to believe that
iord Carington, even with the aid of all his sec-
etaries, Gan officially utter anything more out-
ageous and absurd than his speech on the occa-
lon of the American celebration banquet, nor
an we believe that the Right Hon. W. B. Dalley
nil ever succeed in piling a future Pelion upon
he Os3a of Monday night. It was only to be ex-
ited that the Governer should judge upon
Ie evidence of an American crowd who
leered the Prince of Wales, and the added
s imony of State messages, that America is fer-
dly anxious for an alllanoe with England, for his
jry position and rank teach him to overlook the
[ought of a nation and interpret their sentiments
p the number of hats thrown in the air. Royalty
always assured of the devotion of the people,
id all evidence favourable or otherwise Is tor-
lrel to support that confidence. Carington
Bars that a few] Americans cheered “ Tummy”; he
includes, therefore, that the whole American
eople want “ Tummy” to reign over them. This is
ioyal reasoning, and therefore befits Carington.
md Dalley fol'owed in the same illogical,
motional style. With a comprehensive glance
rhich refused to be restrained by facts and the
lain deductions therefrom, he prophesied an early
mion of the two nations, England and America,
nd, taking a still higher flight, he added:—
“Upon the English-speaking peoples of the
rorld the duty will be cast sooner or later of
naintatning—nay, commanding—its peace, guard-
ng its liberties, and perpetuating lt» Institutions.
Cheers.) They comprise already 320 millions of
he people of the world under opr own empire,
md more than 60 millions of Americans.”
Phis is splendid balderdash. Love of freedom
irged the Pilgrim Fathers to emigrate and settle
n the States; the same sentiment lei to
;he rebellion by wbioh Independence was
won; and it is still the same cause which makes
Germans, Irishmen, Frenchmen, and Englishmen
lock to the Great Republic. The intelligent
Ameri.au imtlnctively looks to England as the
abode of national and class tyranny. He knows
that in the pursuit of Imperial glory the mo6t
brutal outrages have been perpetrated, and a heavy
burden of debt laid upon people who care
nothing for the honors of war and only desire
peace. And he turns to his own home, and re-
members that either he or his ancestors have come
there simply that they might be able to eijjy
freedom and the blessings of peace. Such
boons he would not exchange for oceans of
imperial glory. British glory means the butchery
of hapless patriots in the Soudan, Burmah,
and elsewhere: it includes the oppression of the
toiling millions of India. What classes of Ameri-
cans do our Imperial orators expect to yearn for
an alliance with England ? Are they ihe 10 millions
of negroes who know that their enfranchisement
was delayed by English money, arms, and doc-
trine; are they the 8 millions of Irish descent who
regard England with a hatred, whioh distance
modifies but cannot remove; are they the 13
millions who are of German and Dutch parentage;
or are they the native Americans who regard their
Republic as the hub of the universe? Which of
these would be will’ng to join with England to
help keep the universe in order?
NOTICE.
The Rates of Subscription to “The Bulletin”
are as follows
One year 24/- in advance
Half year 12/6 „ „
Quarter 6/6 „ „
Cheques, Drafts, and P.O. Orders, must be made
payable to J. M. HARDING, Managing Director,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
Postage-stamps of any Australian colony ac-
cepted for amounts under £l.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
The Bulletin will attend to all communications
of whatever character from near or distant cor-
respondents. The aim of the paper is to bring to
light the good things of all sorts.
The Editor will gladly oonsider suggestions for
illustrations, and will carefully read, and aokaow
lege in the correspondence column, all contribu-
tions submitted—whether in the form of political,
social, or other articles, verse, short tales cr
sketches, paragraphs, letters, or newspaper clip-
pings.
Correspondents will please write on one side c f
their paper only, and in forwarding newspapers,
will be good enough to mark the portions to whioh
they invite attention.
The Bulletin does not necessarily undertake any
liability in respect to M3.,&c., forwarded Butthe
Editor will, as a matter of courtesy, send back all
ucsuitable 1 contributions which are in the first
place accompanied by a properly-addressed and
sufficiently-stamped envelope.
The Bulletin will be glad to publish properly-
authenticated sooial items.
I Dan. O’Connor is to ba Postmaster-General
a the new Parkes Ministry.
Another bank soare in Adelaide. It
rose ftom a telegram received in Melbourne to
he tHect that one of theleeal managers had com-
nenced to teach Sunday-school.
“ Australians in London subscribing to
emvate Shakespeare’s tomb. Charity begins at
omb.”— Globe. The chatity of wealthy Austra-
‘ans generally begins at their own tombs.
At Bollock Island, N.S.W., a child was
lorn lately “with two faces and four arms."
iVbat a t me we shall have when, in fulfilment of
iis manifest destiny, he becomes a Minister of the
>own and is up to all his elbows in tho Treasury-
fiaest!
A Reuter’s message says that—“ The party
if Australian colonists visited Btratbford-on-
Avon, and were entertained by Mayor Bobson.”
Ye gods I No mention of Shakespeare. “To what
oaso urea may we cornel ’ A tourist party visits
Shakespeare’s hamlet, not to see the room where
William used to kick in long clothes, but to te
banqueted by Mayor Bobsonl
The death is announced at Sandhurst
(Vic) of Mr. Angus Mackay, a well-known mem-
ber of the Legislature of that colony, and formerly
Minister for Eduoation. Mr. Mackay was also par
proprietor of the Bendigo Advertiser, and bad
previously been connected with the N.B.W. Prf.ss-
His journalistic career commenced on the Atlas
in 1847, and he was also oonnected with the Empire,
the Daily Telegraph, and Kiverina Herald.
He was noted for having possessed one of the
largest assortments of political opinions on record,
and for having supported at different times almost
everything and everybody under the sun. But he
always maintained the opinions which were upper-
most in his mind for the moment, with vigour and
honesty, and energy, and his loss will be much felt
both in political and liteiary circles.
The election of a woman as a church-
warden is the latest advance the sex have made in
England. Some female churchwardens are re-
quired in those churches where half the religion
depends on the drapery of the sacramental table,
and the other half on the neoktie and cassock of
the man-milliner who runs the show.


>< The Foxes Have Their Holes.”
Chkistianity with comfort is the motto of ser-
vants of the Lord in thete enlightened days. If
no comfort-then no Christianity. We read in a
country exchange that “A clergyman of the
Church of England, who recently accepted the
cha r ge of a parish in the north-western part of
this colony (New South Wales), on arriving at his
new home, found that the parsonage consisted of
a two roomed slab building, most inconveniently
ventilated, while the scant verandah bore evidence
of its being a goat-camp. . . He very wisely
gave that parish best, shaking the dust from his
The Dead-heads’ Funeral.
TH E FREE LIST IS SAID TO BE ENTIRELY SUSPENDED, AUTHORISED PRESS ONLY EXCEPTED, AT SYDNEY THE ATRE[?]
fect within a day or two of his entering it.” He
did not, mark jou, stay to enquire whether it was
the churchwardens, and not goats, who had
camped in the verandah. Perhaps he was afraid
to discover that the churchwardens were goals
This is mere flippancy, however. What we wish
to point out is that when the manger-torn Eoun-
der of the Church, of which this fastidious
gentleman ij a minister, remarked that “Poxes
have their holer, and the birds of the air their
nests, but the Son of Man hath not where to
lay his head,” he would not have despised the
shelter of that Eame “two-roomed slab building”
at which His servant (what a wealth of aaicaem
lies in this phrase!) turned up bis reverend nose,
But then the religion He eame to preach had not
developed into a business in His days. Those who
espoused it were told to take up their cross-not
their cooklrg-stoves and grand pianos and Amerf-
can trunks-and follow Him. Such an invitation.
if addressed in these times to those who now re-
present themselves as his followers, wculd be
received either as the utterance of a harmless
lunatio or the joke of a low comedian of the
drollest type. Yet we wonder where Christianity
would now be if its promoters had been men of
thii kind. It might poscibJy have a paragraph
to itself in an ecclesiastical dictionary, but
it would have no living memory among men.
The Pauls, and Peters, and Timothys,
and Silases, and Judes, and Jameses, who built
it up and made of it an Ark of Refuge in the
shoreless ocean of unbelief—a celestial citadelim-
pregnable agairst the gods of gloom-did not
study their personal comfort much when they
went out preaching, or “shake the dust off their
feet ” when the only accommodation they could
obtain was a cow-shed, not to speak of a two-
rotmed slab building. They did not stipulate
whin they answered a "call” to some distant dis-
triet, that a “ parsonage ” fitted up with the latest
i improvements and adorned with Pompeiian pot-
tery and curtains of Syrian purple, also a
I well-filled larder and a cellar crammed with
Mas3io and Falernian should be ready for
them on their arrival. They asked no questions,
I but simply got up, put as much black bread
i and onions as it would hold into their wallet,
and-went. If they had to go by land they walked,
when nobody would give them a lift; if by water,
they went as stowaways, when nobody would give
them a free passage. This was the way in which
the Christian Church was built up. But, it may
be said, now that it is built up, even to the very
gilded erors on the steeple, there is no further
need of its ministers practising self-denial or de-
priving themselves of their little luxuries. Cer-
tainly there is not—as far as its ministers are con-
cerned. They have nothing to fear in the shape
of reproof from those above them. All—or nearly
all—are tarreiwith the same brush. The Lust of
Life is strong upon them, and not to be conquered.
There are some few noble exceptions—men who
have sacrificed rank and riches to work without
fame and without reward, save such as springs
from their own approving ccnsc'ence, in dismal
deserts or squalid slums -but they are far too few
to make our generalisation incorrect. Yet per-
haps these few are found sufficient to save the
Christian Church from beiDg swept away even as
were the Cities of the Plain-a Dead Bea of obli-
vion lying motionless over it for ever. But the
practice of some of the virtues they preaeh—
charity and self-deDial particularly-if not con-
sidered essential to clergymen in these times, is
most surely essential to the Church. It is already
totter’ng from steeple to basement, and unless
some great Architect arises to strengthen and
gradually renew it from the foundations, it will
some day fall in upon itself with a crash and bury
its fat priests and pompous hierarchs and sleek
psalm-singers under a cairn as big as the Birs
Nimroud. Of course we are speaking metaphori.
cally now. But the plain English of the affair is
that all these will have to go around one day and
hunt for their hash instead of being fed up like
prophets as they are at present. That day may be
far off—which causes us to say that the existing
race of dervishes need not live in slab-buildings or
do without their wine at dinner and their fresh
jsint every day with four or five kinds of entrees
and all the rest of their little comforts. The
church will last their time. But they are making
it exceedingly rough for tfecir successors.


Personal
Items
Queen Victoria “snores awfully.”
One of the Brisbane newspapers has on its
staff four opium-eaters.
The Prince of Wales positively declines to
edit “The Life of John Brown,” whioh is to be
published shortly.
One of the defendants charged with the
alleged N.S.W. railway frauds took to his bed on
eceiving the summons.
John Lucas, M.L.C., exceeds all other
Sydney men in tram-car politeness; for, when he
rises to accommodate the fair sex he always gives
Beats to two ladies.
The Emperor Wilhelm of Germany is 90
years old; Bismarck, 65; Von Moltke, 87. Just
about time for them to stop fooling with armies,
and think of celestial emigration.
H. R. Webbe, the well-known cricketer,
dropped dead while teaching a Sunday-school class,
in London. The tragedy can be accepted as a
warning against too much cricket, or too much
Sunday-school, just according to teste.
More glory. We see that Mr. P. B. Walker,
of the N.S.W. Telegraph Department, is in China
dubbed “Colonel” Walker. Who made him a
colonel? Plain Bill, it is claimed, “precipitated
Australia into a nation.” Yes, a nation of
colonels.
Lieutenant R. H. Owen sailed for Eogland
the other day to join the Imperial forces. Thus
are our finest specimens of manly beauty snatched
from us. Let us find consolation in the thought
that “Sandy’s” place as a representative N.S.
Welshman will be so quickly filled.
Mr. Hazard, who was killed by the vol-
canic eruption of Mount Tarawera, N.Z., was a
compositor on the staff of the Dunedin Daily
Times when Sir Julius Vogel was editor, and Mr.
B L Farjeon, the now celebrated novelist, was
manager of the paper. For the past eight years
Mr. Hazard had taugnt a Maori school at Tarawera.
£354 10a. was the amount owing to the
enlonv by Lord Augustus Loftus, late Governor of
N S W , at the time of his leaving for England.
As it was not much use levying on the vice-regal
hen-coops for the amount, the Minister “ wrote it
off ” These facts should scatter the popular im-
pression that poultry-raising is a profitable amuse-
ment.
The most philosophical man in these colo-
nies is an old Maori who took refuge in an empty
house during the eruption at Rotorua, and was
still there when the building was buried by the
mud. When dug out four days afterwards, he
swore at the rescue party and said he did not want
to be disturbed, and finally was carried away, tied
to a chair and kicking viciously.
A pair of bloods belonging to the R.C.
Bishop of Ballarat bolted the other day, and
bowled his Lordship out along the metal road,
breaking a bone or two, and sorely bruising his
holy person. It is always a consolation to the
poor journalist to know that he is not forced to
drive spirited horses, and jeopardise his beloved
neck, like a meek and lowly Bishop.
Dr. Kevin Izod O’Doherty, formerly a
member of the Queensland Legislature, and now
m 6 p for Meath in the British House of Commons,
eaysbe has already grown tired of the old world,
with its dreary ways and its worn-out prejudices.
He has resolved to resign his seat and come back
tn the land of the emu and the kangaroo, and
taste once more the sweets of good rum and true
elgion.
We notice that the scoundrel who edits
that standard British publication, “The States-
man’s Year-book,” printed under the nose of
Oiieen Victoria in Bedford-street, London, refuses
to Anglicise the name of Princess Beatrice’s hus-
hand? but calls him Heinrich, utterly ignores his
Oueen-conf erred title of Royal Highness, and
says he belongs to a family “ not possessed of much
private property and dependent almost entirely
upon the grant of the Civil List l
Bv far the bitterest, cleverest, and, in a
sense, truest thing ever said about Glad-
stone, who so of ten talks of “Divine Provi-
dence.” was said by Labouchere, as he came out
of the House of Commons one night, on discover-
ing he had been fooled by the Government allow-
ing film to promise in their name concessions they
uever Tntended to make. Said he: “That old fox
o(JflvHhas two aces up his sleeves. But I wouldn’t
S r that so much if he didn’t always want to
make you believe that God Almighty put them
there.”
The now historic nine-hours’ speech of
Mr Jaw-Bone Neild, of the N.B.W. Assembly,
though wonderful, is not unique. David Gaunson,
r,f Victoria, once talked for seven hours, an Irish
member of the Commons spouted for 11 hours,
Sid Leonard M’Clure, a member of the British-
Pniumbian Legislature (formerly a compositor
In Melbourne), wiped out all records by orating
tor 17 hours, at the end of which his mate arose,
and after “cutting out” the balance of the 21
hours intimated that he “ was prepared to go on
talking until the Angel Gabriel sounded the last
trump.”
It is a severe blow to Australian loyalty to
learn that the Prince of Wales is not ooming to
open the Jubilee Exhibition, after all. Every pre-
paration had been made, even down to the pur-
chase of a jubilee bucket, in case H.R.H. should
ho ill on the voyage, and now he proposes to send
one of his sons instead. In the end the choice will
Probably be between Battenberg and Prince
Christian -the party who always stays to luncheon
at Windsor—and from motives of humanity we
vote for the blighted Battenberg. He would feel
better if he could get away from his mother-in-
aw for a month or two.
Sir Charles Dilke has been more Turkish
in his mode of life than English. At his villa near
Tournay he has maintained a seraglio, with gems
from all quarters in its cluster of beauty. He has
alwavs bad a pronounced fancy for doing things
out of the ordinary way. On his first marriage
with Miss Shiel, a very handsome Irish girl, they
separated on the morning of the wedding at the
church door, the bride saying, jauntily, “ Good-
morning, Charlie. lam going shopping. We shall
meet at tea," and on her death, some year and a
half after, he subjected her remains to cremation,
a process not then in vogue.
The Protestant world affectionately re-
members that it owes a revelation to Leopold Von
Ranke the illustrious historian, news of whose
death was cabled to Australia a few weeks ago.
Half a century since it was fondly believed that
Protestantism was everywhere gaining on Catholi-
cism and that with the spread of enlightenment,
what Protestants regard as “The clouds of super-
stition” were blowing away. It was Von Ranke who
taught the world that the fact is the very reverse,
and that during the past 250 years Catholicism has
gained on Protestantism. At the middle of the
seventeenth century the Protestants probably out-
numbered the Catholics; to-day, the latter are
probably more numerous than the former by 20
per cent. Two hundred and fifty years ago the
peoples of France, Austria, Southern Germany,
Poland, Belgium, and Hungary bade fair to become
Protestant, and Protestantism had a fighting
chance in Spain and Italy. Now all these countries
are solidly Catholic, and there is no more chance
of winning them over to Protestantism than there
is of restoring the old Roman altars. It was the
announcement of this fact, with the remarkable
Ql WWWttius wW9& wwinttii fcr it, that
Inade Von Ranke famous when men now old were
?oung, and middle-aged men were unborn,
The other day Lord Rosebery paid at auc-
tion 370 guineas for a oommonplace-book in the
handwriting of Robert Burns; at the same sale
Sir Robert Jardine bought another such book for
310 guineas. The book was described in the cata-
logue as original MSS. by Burns; but it has since
been discovered that of 16 pieces of prose and
verse in one book four are merely copies, and in
the other, 11 pieces out of 17 were merely tran-
scribed by the poet for reference from the Scots’
and London magazines and other sources. Since
this disclosure the vendors and the purchasers
have come to an amicable arrangement as to the
value of the books, for even considered only as
specimens of Burns’ penmanship they are of con-
siderable value. Here, by the way, is a little
“ Bacchanalian ode ” after Burns, sent to us the
other day by Mr. George Black, of Sydney
Gin a chappie’s dour, unhappy,
Tired of fechtin’ care;
Yin wee drappie o’ the nappy,
Gars him loup and rair.
Ilka chappie taka his drappie,
Warkin’ folks are dry;
Gin a drappie mak ye happy,
“ Swig it off,” eay I.
Gin a body meet a body
Stottin drucken hame,
Need a body spier if toddy
Wambles in his wame.
Ilka fogie taks his cogie,
Ilka body's dry;
Tak your liquor, toom your bicker,
Nane the waur am I.
The blighted affeotions of the human inside
form an asset which it is very difficult for even a
lawyer to value. Those of Ann Eliza Coy, of Mel-
bourne, have been estimated by a jury at £lOO,
and, to all appearance, she got very good value*
Ann Eliza is a widow, aged about 50, and the man
who rent her trusting heart is a dipsomaniac
baker who has got past 60 milestones on the road
of life, and who is alleged to be subject at times to
visitations from snakes, blue devils, dogs with
yellow tails and green legs, tartan alligators
and other alcoholic annoyances. There was
HOW IT WASN’T.
J. B. NEILD: “COMING TO CHURCH, SIRENNEE?”
SIRENBEE: “YA-A-S, BUT SOMEHOW OR OTHER I HAVE A HEAD ON ME TO-DAY.
I’VE BEEN TRYING HARD, BUT I CANT PRAY WORTH A CENT.”
“Sir Hen[?]y Parkes was entertained at a Champagne Banquet at Orange on Saturday
night. He also attended divine service on Sunday Morning.”
nothiDg romantic about the proposal or the
attendant love-making. The baker had been
drinking rather freely from a brandy-flask, and he
simply thumped his charmer in the spine and
intimated he would be hanged if he did not marry
her. The matter was settled a few days later, and
the first privilege Mr. White enjoyed in his new
position as an engaged man was that of paying 7s.
in the £to the lady’s creditors. Then the baker s
daughter interposed, and told the fat enslaver that
her father had been discovered with the servant
girl on his knees, but the old gentleman repelled
the insinuation and expressed a hope that his hair,
would turn mouldy if it were true. His hair did
not turn mouldy, but on the 34th March, the day
when two fond hearts were to beat as one for the
first time, he was too ill to undergo the ceremony.
From this moment things went wrong, and the
glow of love froze to the consistency of Ice-cream.
The baker was summoned for an unexpected dress-
making bill, and a loan of £6 which the widow
negotiated with him lay heavily on his vitals By
the 13th June all was over, and when Mrs. Coy
demanded of the hoary swain some explanation
of his faithlessness, that snow-topped deceiver
finerely said It was owing to bad counsellors and
“snakes.” Perhaps it dawned on Mrs. Coy that
the snakes in question would be rather bad com-
pany in the event of the marriage ever being con-
summated, to say nothiDg of the yellow dog®, the
striped alligators, and the rest of the fanciful,
ever-changing menagerie in the amorous baker’s
head; at all events, she dried her tears on
finding that her intended held back, and
consoled her sorrowing heart by the issue
of a writ for £5OO. In the witnesr-box, how-
ever, the defendant said he was quite willing to
marry “the woman.” He was nearly always
drunk, but if she did not object to that, her baker
was all her But the plaintiff’s lawyer Inti-
mated that the time for such a settlement had
gone by, and Ann Eliza Coy would never again
pour forth her treasured affections at the feet of
an old snake-haunted lover, with an enlarged
liver, a husky voice, and a grown-up family- Ig
was for the jury to estimate the va'ue of what she
had lost, and the jury, after studying the ruins of
the baker, summed him up at £LiO. Possibly they
knew their own business, but the estimate seems
an extravagant one, and it is not a little strange
that a colony should be so deeply in debt when it
possesseafoafcers to the value ot probably £1.000,000
scattered like an unearned increment over its
territory.
BRIEF MENTION.
Evangelical item. Another Adelaide
bank-embezzler gone to gaol.
There has been a big railway accident in
Tasmania. The engine-driver (de mortuiB, <xo.),
“ had only had one drink.”
An anti-“ shouting ” society has been
established at Young. This is all that was needed
to make life not worth living there. It is the last
straw.
A polioeman was severely assaulted in
Little Bourke-street, Melbourne, by larrikins, a
few nights ago He has a clue. Policemen always
have. It is a bUck eye.
A correspondent states, for the benefit of
“ whalers,” that the ration now allowed to travel-
lers at one of the late Sir John O’Shanassy s
stations, is two —“ spudsl”
The editor of the Toowoomba Chronicle
(0 ) says there is a cabbage-head on view at his
office which weighs 27ib. What a curious man to
make suoh an exhibition of himself I
The S.M. Herald says Mr. Dailey’s “Right
honorable ”is not a title but an honour. We are
glad to find the Jingoes own at last that a knight-
hood is not an honour—but merely a title.
“James Hennessy, an aboriginal, has been
awarded a Humane Society's medal for saving a
colonist from drowning.” James Hennessy a
black 1 At last he has come out in his true colour.
After one of Dr. Grattan Guinness’s
meetings in Sydney a large number of good young
men donned the social-purity badge, a white rib-
bon. The badge will be much liked—by the police.
It can be seen a long way off.
The editor ofithe Port Denison (Q.) Times
say 8: -“The time for laughing at citizen soldiers
has gone past,” and then adds reflectively: “We
were a volunteer ourselves once*” Of c jurse the
time for laughing at them has gone past-since he
left.
A Sydney paper says that the reptiles
which are to be seen in the N.S.W. Court at the
Colonial Exhibition are likely to dissuade intend-
ing emigrants. Now, which of the “representa-
tive Australians ” are they covertly assaulting toy
this?
The Charters Towers (Q.) Herald wants
miners to rush Mount Morgan instead of starting
off to Kimberley; 50 toy 400 feet there is better
than two square leagues at the new rush with two
grains to ibe bag and two mules to carry it to
water.
Two criminals were recently guillotined
at Noumea, and a spectator publishes his solemn
davy that they opened their eyes and looked
round after their heads were cut off. This proves
that a dead French murderer is a more wide awake
person than a live Sydney poiicems n.
A cable in the E. News says that Swin-
burne has published a sensational poem represent-
ing “The Man of Words’’ (Gladstone) embracing
the “ Man of Blood” (Parnell). Bosh! The News
knows very well that the Man of Words is J. C.
Neild, and the Man of Blood is Dan O’Connor,
IMPAY.
A few days ago a tall spectacled German
was brought up at tlje Melbourne Police Court on
suspicion of insanity, the chief evidence against
him being that he had quartered himself on a man
named Brandt as “an uninvited guest.” We sup-
pose it would hardly do to apply thj same teat to a
colonial Governor.
“ Mr. E. G. Miller, manager ot the Bank of
New South Wales, Ararat, committed suicide
whilst labouring under temporary insanity. He
had been greatly depressed of late, but the bank's
accounts were found to be perfectly correct." That’s
it. Being out of the fashion, the poor man
thought he might as well he out of the world.
Councillor Rounsevell, of Adelaide, has
got himself disliked for saying that “all the
Corporation officers are liars.” Superfluous re-
marks like that are very irritating to the listeners.
The declaration made by our old friend, David, in
his haste, may be accepted without iteration—
especially as regards Corporation officers.
At Gisborne, N.Z., a shilling ad. appeared
in the local paper inviting young men who wished
to go to the goldfields to meet at the Wesleyan
Caurch. About 40 or 50 young men met accord-
ingly, but they found, ween the white-chokerist
who filled the chair had started the proceedings,
that it was not Kimberley but the Celestial gold-
fields they were invited to make a rush for. The
parson was successful so far in initiating a rush
but it was to the door, and thence to the nearest
nub. that the would-be miners flocked. Then they
opened on him.
The objectors to the establishment in Lon-
don of a branch of the A.M.P. Society give in sup-
port of their position the fact that “the late John
Smith, M.D„ was opposed to the scheme.” Another
evidence of the growing influence of a very re-
markable family. There was a crowned Smith in
Asia some 2500 years ago, and his descendants are
steadily wading through blood and sin towards
the throne which their great ancestor lost.
A young Maori footballer has kicked out
a novel idea. He proposes to form a team of
Maori and half-caste kickers to play against the
crack clubs of Auckland and other N.Z. towns, for
the purpose of raising funds to build a native
church in his district:—
To build a kirk he kicked a goal
And scrimmaged hard to save bis soul.
M I oanna oonderstand what ye can hev
till say to a Papist priest, or what the priest can
have to say to you,” said a Scotch elder to his
minister, after seeing the latter in conversation
with the Catholic clergyman. “ Weel, M'Tavish,”
said the minister, “ I’ll just tell you what I said to
the priest, and what the priest said to me. I said,
* How is your reverence to-day ? ’ and he said,
‘First rate, sonny, how are you?’ I said, I’ll
swop collections with you, and he said,‘No fear,
cocky; I know your flock too well.’ That was all
that passed, Mr. M'Tavish. Good afternoon.”
The feeling of intense irritation which has
been aroused in Queensland through the proceed-
ings of the French in the New Hebrides culmin-
ated recently at Maryborough in a desperate light
between a French and British champion. The
latter was fully three times the size of his
antagonist, but the plucky little Gaul felt that he
was maintaining the honour of his fatherland and
fought gamely to the last. Finally, being pinned
down, he fixed his teeth in his enemy s hind leg
and placed him hors de combat. We almost forgot
to mention that the winner was a white poodle
with a black spot on his nose.
A prisoner at Ayenel (Vic.), fell sick the
other day, and the local constable left the lock-up
door on chain so that the poor invalid might have
the benefit of the bracing breeze. The poor in-
valid braced himself, and passed through a spaoe
six inches wide, out into the cold world. They
have recaptured him, and stored him away in an
iron safe, taking care to fix a bar across the .key-
hole. We knew a man once, who, when serving a
long term in one of H.M.’b prisons, starved him-
self with the idea of eventually squeezing between
the bars. He essayed the experiment one fine
night, and was caught by his feet.
The life of a Chinese journalist is very
precarious. Wongtzi, a yellow scientific writer,
has been sentenced to lose his head because, in
one of his recent works, he mentioned the names
of several deceased emperors. All his family are
to lose their heads also. It seems that as soon as an
emperor is dead in that country the first job is to
forget him, and anybody who attempts to call him
to mind is liable to come to grief. The system is
worth adopting in other lands, and the only pity
seems to be that people cannot forget living
potentates as well as dead ones. It is about al
they are good for. In Australia, lots of the
aristocracy quite lose their heads over mere
lords and governors. We are glad the Prince of
Wales isn’t coming.
Mr. Field Barrett, of the Australian
Natives’ Association, has got himself into hot
water for stating that candidates were only re-
quired to be sons of the soil and “moderately
moral.” Sundry branches of this delectable asso-
ciation have moved, seconded, and carried unani-
mously that “strict morality” is essential to
membership. In these days of so-called Christian
disclosures it is almost unaccountable that an
otherwise harmless body of young men should
seek to introduce the element of “ strict morality”
into their midst. It can only result in an all-round
collaring of the cash and a general “bust.” Not
that the Australian Natives' Association would be
badly missed. If it attained any strength, we
should be inflicted with a counter demonstration
in the form of a New Chums’ League, or a Non-
Native Brotherhood.
The Bishop of Ballarat is supplying a long
felt want by delivering a course of lectures on the
Seven Dreams of Z johariah. For many years past
the people of Victoria have been literally howling
for information about Zachariah, and now they
are getting it. We have been induced to look up
the subject, and we find that Zachariah went to
bed after a heavy supper of Hebrew hash, and
dreamt, among other things, that he saw a “flying
roll,” which he interpreted to be a curse—a sort of
balloon curse, as it was floating in the air—and It
is on this roll that the bishop is now expatiating.
Our own opinion is that the document in question
was the North Queensland Separation petition, but
we will wait to near the orthodox explanation be-
fore we oommit either ourselves or Zachariah. The
Ballarat man with the mitre gets about JEIQCO a
year for expounding dead Jews, so, after all, the
affair is his business, not ours.
About the best free ad. on record appears
in a late issue of the Tenterfleld (N.8.W.) Record.
Little Brown, of Tenterfleld, son of big Brown, of
the same town, is home from school for a little
recreation, and has brought with him bis copy-
book, a map of Australia, and a drawing of some
cats. These productions have been exhibited by
the fond parent to the editor of the local journal,
and that gentleman devotes a good-sized local to
the subject. Young Brown will now swell round
that small settlement in the character of a youth
of “culchab,” and will probably develope as one
of the best prigs in the back-blocks. We have
seen several youths do the same on much Uss pro-
vocation, aud nothing but a course of judioious
and carefully-assorted caning, together with a
little exercise at chopping the family firewood on
cold mornings, saved them from acquiring artistic
tastes which might have lasted for the remainder
of their lives.
The Sydney D.T. editorially asserts that—
“ Speaking in a general way, we should say that
more uncompromising rectitude is shown by get-
ting up and leaving the church (before the ser-
mon), while the time-hallowed ecclesiastical con-
ventionalities are best preserved by maintaining
your seat and quietly slumbering there.” ArguiDg
on the same premises, the evident deduction is
that the apex of rectitude would consist in the
negative virtue of not going to church at all.
A yarn from the land of the Darling.
Dwellers in that region of goats, rum, and kerosene
tins, butchers, bakers, yea, even editors, and not
even forgetting solicitors, have their periodical
fits of painting the town red. During oae of these
periodical freaks of local industry an enterprising
resident hit upon the truly original and touchingly
beautiful thought that he had once upon a time
owned a cheeyild I His long-lost cheejild 1 and he
pined to caress it again. So he clutched his little
spade, laid in an assortment of red rum and white
Dookethandkerchiefs, hied him to the cemetery
and paddocked round for children. He prospected
a grave, put a shaft down, and panned up the re-
mains of some other man's child. Then the owner
of that other sepulchre appeared on the scene and
remonstrated with a brick.
Something is going wrong with the calcu-
lations of the Tory prophets with regard to Ire-
land. Instead of the brutal Catholic desolating
Ulster, it seems to be the frantic Orangeman who
is shedding fractured skulls over that part of the
habitable glob©. On the Ith June, 2000 Protestant
workmen attacked 100 Catholics employed at the
docks, and after savagely assailing them, drove
them into the water, where one was drowned.
Another “ religious ” item comes from Auckland.
A man named Caffrey, the master of a trading
cutter, the Sovereign of the Seas, shot Robert
Taylor and then put to sea. He was soon pur-
sued, and the usual long stern chase is now taking
place. The cause of the deed was that Taylor
broke off his daughter’s engagement with Caffrey
some time ago on account of the latter being a
Catholic. Rum and religion promise to keep the
police busy, but at the present moment religion


Holt’s Madness.
Edward Brown Holt, who passed lately
from a bank-manager’s parlour to a cell in Parra-
matta gaol, is reported to have gone out of his
mind. An official investigation into the matter is
now being made. It may be remembered that
the first year of Holt’s imprisonment was to
have been spent in solitary confinement, and
although he was not removed to Berrima, where
this class of punishment is usually inflicted, tbe
public were informed that he was to duly undergo
it in Parramatta gaol. Whether or not he be
actually mad, and whether, if mad, the insanity
has anything to do with the punishment he re-
ceived, we do not at present eaquire. But we ask
what was the use of giviDg a man like Holt 12
months’ solitary confinement ? What was the use
of giving him any solitary confinement at all?
Bteady work would appear to have been the
fitting thiEg for his condition of body. Bteady
work would also have been the healthiest
occupation for his mind. The worst use to which
a man can be turned Is to hang him. The next
bad use to make of him is to condemn him to com-
pulsory idleness of mind and body. The cost of
our prison establishments is very great. Last
year the labour of prisoners in N.S.W. amounted
to only £40,000. Out of 2563 prisoners only 1842
were employed. In New York, out of 3000 con-
victs, only 400 were unemployed. Two years ago
tbe prisons of New Vork were self-supporting,
and were it not for certain false Democratic
notions seizing on the Legislature they still would
be so. After deducting tne earnings from the ex-
penditure in San Quentin, each prisoner is found
to cost the State 25)4 cents per day.
* * *
When a man breaks the law enlightened
satisfaction is obtained by making him yield
compensation. If ho steals money from the
community Us four or five years in prison
should obviously he years of work. Prison dis-
cipline is, however, crammed with fads. As the
disciplinarians are mostly able men their fads
are the more dangerous. They turn them into
fixed principles, and bring every kind of subject
under them. Hence they make the community
whom a culprit defrauds support that oulprit
while he aits idle with his arms crossed in a cell.
Nor is the time he sits thus the only loss. About
every fortnight he has to be doctored up with
Stimulants. When he gets strong enough he is
sent back to sit idle with his arms crossed for
another term. That is called discipline. Econo-
mically, it is vioious. Personally, as regards the
prisoner, it is, administered thus, often calamit-
ous. There a man like Holt sits in bis white-
washed cell. No sound reaches through the thick
stone walls He has no space to walk about.
There is no work for him to do. There is neither
book nor paper to read. A pitcher of water
stands beside him. All the food he gets per
day is 16oz. of bread. Daylight crawls along. He
sits there staring. Night comes slowly down. He
sits there staring. Once in 24 hours he is taken
out. He hears an order which he interprets to
mean that he is to draw a canvas bag over his head.
The bag falls down to his shoulder. Small aper-
tures exist for seeiDg and breathing. Lo, he
marches—Holt marches—up and down, up and
down, or round and round—a ghastly speetacle of
what gaol faddists can make ofamanl What is
the use, we ask again, of turning a man into this
raree show for nobody to see? Would it not be
better for him, for us, for all, If he were kept at
good, hard, steady work ?
* * *
We are not here arguing for the complete
abolition of solitary confinement. In some cases
It may be of service. The Quakers, who were the
first to introduce it as a fixed element in prison
discipline, demonstrated its advantages. But they
set themselves, in their American settlements, to
observe its influences, and soon invented qualifi-
cations. There are violent and unruly minds that,
thrown back on themselves, may be able to recog-
nise in the silence of the cell that their existence
is running on false lines. Mr. Justice Williams, of
Victoria, defends solitary confinement on the score
of its salutary effects on hardened criminals. Holt
was not, at any rate in the disciplinary sense of the
term, a hardened criminal. But even with har-
dened criminals there should be no rule of fad.
The antecedents of the men should be taken into
account and the effects of the discipline on them
carefully noted. When, not long ago, certain
borough councils were granted prison labour, the
prison officials made a lengthened Btudy of the
antecedents and temperament of every convict
they let out to work. Why not show equal care
for a prisoner on his way to the silent cell ? A
hardened criminal, constitutionally lawless and
hostile to society, is not so very certain
to grow better by being forced to look in
upon himself for 30 days out of every 60,
or six months out of 12. That much is ad-
mitted on all hands. One may Improve, but
another may be liable to people the vacuity about
him with wild faces like his own; the silence about
him he is liable to fill with cries of desperation
and revenge. There can be little doubt that pre-
disposing causes to insanity are thus supplied.
There can be no doubt that if there be latent in-
sanity in the system, this sort of punishment de-
velopes it. While, then, admitting that, under
careful administration, solitary confinement may,
in certain cases, be employed with advantage, we
can discover no motive beyond a senseless attach-
ment to a routine of fad in committing Holt to
the silent cell. Give the man work, but in the
name of humanity, do not wantonly drive him
mad.
BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
Tall scoring was the order of the day on
Saturday in the Bydney football field. For the Gar-
diner Cup, the Goidons romped over theßedferns
on the Agricultural Ground scoring, by 28 points
to nil; and the University team beat Newtown on
the latter’s ground by 19 to nil. On the Association
ground, which was open for the first time this
season for inter-club matches, the Burwoods
knocked pieces off the Arfomas by 15 points to 6,
the feature of the game being the admirable place
kicking of Harris, of Burwood. Among the
Juniors, the Double Bays were on the warpath
again, and “did” Randwickby 4 points to nil; the
Larett-s beat the Manlys, and the Cammerays
were jubilant over the ttrashing they gave the
Marrowgates.
* * *
Champion Foley and Newton’s combina-
tion have come to terms, and something high class
in the boxing art may be looked forward to in the
series of entertaiments to come off in Foley’s
Hall, commencing next Saturday. The opening
night will icclude a set-to between the clever
Peter Newton and Lees, who recently de-
feated Farnan, and is said to be a much-
better man than when h9iast boxed before the
Sydney public. Several other good bouts are set
down lor decision, and Champion Foley, who, like
the old war-horse, sniffs the battle in the distance,
will “wind-up” with a friend.
* * *
We cannot compliment the Melbourne
Cricket Club upon its grab-all policy in competing
against Shaw and Lilly white In the bringiog out
of an English team to the colonies next season.
It was an open secret that the two English pro-
fessionals had such an objecs in view, and, con-
sidering the shabby way they were treated by the
Australian Eleven during thsir last venture, it
would only be a fair thing to give them a show in
a future attempt. No better or fairer sportsman
than Lillywhite exists, and it is to be hoped the
M.C.C. may reconsider their decision, more espe-
cially as overtures had already been made to some
of the leading players by Shaw and Company.
** * »
Colonial cricketers, as a body, admit that
our excellence in the game was mainly brought
about by the visits of the earlier Englisn Elevens,
but let a colonist even hint to a fair-play-lovmg
Britisher that we have repaid the favour by what
we Australians have shown them in our trips to
the old country, and he stands a fair show of
being wolfed without salt. Who has not noticed
the listless lazing feeling of professionals of old
compared with their brethren of the latter days ?
They used to remind us of old Charley Laurence’s
blacks, who, when they took a wicket, squatted on
the field until Charles set them goiDg again with
his foot. How the old boys who used to he com-
pletely nonplussed by slow Googlers, with the
least bit of stuff in them, must open their eyes
when they see Joey Palmer or Tom Garrett put in
a real fast one with a three or four inch work on
it. Before the advent of our boys in England,
Jem Lillywhite and old Sotherton, with their
sugar doodles, were the bosses of their day, but
neither of them would get a wicket now in a
month of Sundays. Let us hope to hear no more
of the oant, when we again drub the Britisher,
that he taught us all we know. The account is
squared.
* * *
The principal event on the recently issued
programme of the Sydney Bicycle Club annual
meeting is the 10 miles’ championship, which was
carried eff last year by C. R. Wood. This year
Wood will have to win it on his merits, if he wins
it at all, as his opponents will in all probability in-
clude Con Dwyer, the present champion at most
cistancr-s; F. H. Shackleford, the lace champion,
who has been taking a rest, and is going into train
ing for the event; Busst; “ English” Brown, and
other good riders from Melbourne; Tregonning,
the Adelaide champion; Langdown, the Maori-
lander, who is reported to have done some wonder-
ful times on inferior tracks on a CO-inch machine;
and Tasmania and Brisbane will also be repre-
sented. In addition to this race there is a mile
soratch invitation race, and the Millbrook Chal-
lenge Cup, two miles, and, as these are three
representative distances, the winner of the best
two may be looked upon as the amateur champion
of Australia.
* * *
The Sydney B.C. have received a big
knock, hotvever, in the fact that the Sydney
Lancers have fixed upon the same day, 14th
August, for their athletic meeting, and as their
intrepid Colonel has serious intentions, we under
stand, of competing in the tent-pegging, and per-
haps a couple of other events, the S.B.C. may bid
good-bye to the Bong ToDgers, who are sure to
rally round the gubernatorial Colonel and his
gallant “ Lancahs.” It is a pity the Lancers and
“ bike ” men cannot come to an understanding
with a view to a postponement on one side or the
other.
• * *
Wherever a drop of British blood flows,
good boxing, as long as It is well conducted, will
ever draw a big house, and Sydney nas proved no
exee: tion to the rule. Foley’s Saturday night’s en-
tertainment, at his Athletic Hall, are now an insti-
FANCY PORTRAIT OF THE FENIAN WHO THREATENED MR. CHAMBERLAIN.
“ Mr. Joseph Chamberlain and the Marquis of Hartington have been threatened by
the Fenians.” —Cable to S. M. Herald.
tutiOD, and the place was again packed oa
Saturday night. A wrestling match was on the
card, but it found smill favour with the audience,
who thought it slow work to see a man of Con-
nor’s calibre playing with a couple of men whom
he could have eaten in the time he allowed him-
self to throw them four times. Should Muldoon,
Acton, or other of the American wrestlers come
out, the Sydney public might acquire a taste for
the sport, but it would hardly be safe to try a
repetition of Connor’s show. The box of the night
was between Kelly and Fuller, who fought them-
selves to a standstill in four rounds. Kelly is a
determined, good-tempered boxer, whom we fancy
will develope into a good man should he improve
his infighting, which at present is wild and uncer-
tain. Pablo Frank and M’Carty made a poor Bhow
ot the plenty-action little-execution kind. Dooley
and Fogarty were billed for four rounds, the for-
mer undertaking to knock his opponent ou f , but
Fogarty did not put in an appearance, though the
doughty Michael was on the spot and eager for
the fray.
» * *
The following is the latest phase of the
John L. Sullivan-Jem Smith affair, as given by a
Yankee paper:—“lf the plans which have been
laid, and which the American champion is a party
to, are successfully carried out, John L. Sullivan
will fight James Smith, the British champion, in
England, inside of three months. The men are
anxious to meet. During his career, Sullivan has
made many influential friends, mtn who take
great interest in prizs-flghtiag, but who do not
wish to figure in connection with an affair of the
ring. Among these, it is said, is Albert Edward,
Prince of Wales. Two weeks ago three prominent
friends of the American champion sent a com-
munication to the Prince asking his intervention
in order that the men might fight without danger
of interference. Sullivan’s proposition is that he
shall go to England provided it can be guaranteed
that he can meet Bmith in a private room with
only 20 spectators, the stakes to be 10,000 dollars
aside. It is intended that five of the spectators
shall be Americans. The expectation is that the
Prince of Wales will affix his seal to the letter,
thus insuring fair play, and it is even believed that
he will be one of the spectators.” By the way,
John L. is once more reported to have entered
into an engagement to visit Australia, this time
under the management of Frank Lane, late a
member of John T. Raymond’s theatrical com-
pany. This rumour will, doubtless, turn out to be
no nearer the truth than those previously cir-
culated.
• • •
The erstwhile crack, Malua, has joined the
noble army of benedicts. He has gone to the stud.
The Australians have not done badly so
far in the English tour, as the following statistics
will show. Of the 14 matches contested they have
won six-against Oxford University, Gentlemen
of England, Derbyshire, Lancashire, Middlesex,
and Lord March’s team ; been beaten twice, by
Lord Sheffield's team and Surrey ; and have played
six drawn games with Nottingham, North of Eng-
land, Cambridge University, Gentlemen of Eng-
land, the Players, and C. J. Thornton’s team :
Match.
woo by
Scores.
Lord SheUieid'a Toata.
Lord Sheffield— 8 wfcte.
Winner# 105 and 01 for 2
wkts : losorn i* 5 and VO
Nottingham
Drawn
Aua. 300 and 12 ror 2 wkta.;
Notts 104
Surrey
Sumy- 3 wkta.
Winners 171 and K> for 7
wkta.; Aua. *2 ana 173
Or lord University
Australians- by 2n rune
Aua. *n and 89; losers 45
and :W
North of England
Drawn
Aua. .15 and 43; North 43
and 15 for 1 wat.
Gentlemen of England
Australians- 1 wkta.
Aua. 150 and t»i for 8 wkta.;
Irjaom, On and 136
Derbyshire
A ustraliana- 6 wkta.
Aua. 101 and 40 for S wkta.:
lost ra. 03 and lit
Cambridge University
Drawn
A us. 222 ar.d 320 lor 5 wkta.;
Cun’ bridge 143
Lancashire
A US.—innings and 12 runs
Aua. 146 ; Joaeis 48 and H7
Gentlemen ot England
Drawn
Aua. m ; Genii. 471 orid 105
The Player*
Drawn
Aua. 205 and 238 for 0 wkta.:
Player#, 334
Middlesex ..
Australians- 1 wkt.
Aus, 35t and 123 fort* wkta.;
losera, Sfit) anu 217
Lord March’s Team -
Australians- S wkta.
Aua. 173 and 31 tor 2 wkta.;
lexers 140 and 03
G. J. Thorntoa'8 Team
Drawn
Aua. 313 ; Thornton's 151
and 130 for 0 wkta.
For a year or more'Australian ’eyelists
have smiled a superior smile when told how Dan
Canary can climb on his bicycle in 75 different
ways. You can't stuff a Sydney youth who rides a
bicycle. No, sirl And when he reads about Dan
riding on the big wheel alone, he slowly closes
ODe eye as indicative of unbelief. But a greater
than Dan is even now in our midst, and our head
is spincing yet from watching his superb dex-
terity. W. 8. Maltby’s preliminary exhibition at
Botany proved that notone of the wildly impro-
bable feats credited to Canary and Kaufman is
impossible, for he did them all before our eyes in
Smith’s historic pavilion. Booth and Kingsley
were small apples to him. Lightly running
out his gleaming Rudge—a 48 inch, all-mckle
machine—he vaulted into the saddle, and
with arms folded on his chest, careered from
side to side with a wavy motion. Then, with-
out touching the handles, he slowed up and
stood motionlfsi, the wheals at an angle; next,
with a sudden jerk, he reversed the wheels to the
opposite angle. Throwing both legs over the
front he propelled the machine by the rim of the
wheel. He rode it in front of the handles, and
then turning round with face to rear he rode it
baokwards. Creucbing down on the small wheel,
he rode with the propelli ng leg inserted between
the large wheel and the bickbone. In the ordi-
nary position he w?nt twice round the building,
with the Bmall wheel sticking in the air behind,
like a new and enlarged kind of *' improver;”
then did the same backwards. He waltzed the
Rudge gracefully, and hejspun it round like a tee-
totum. He stood upright on the saddle, with one
foot on the handlebar. He lowered himself down
by the side of the machine and rode sitting on
one pedal. He threw down a handkerchief,
rode to it, stopped, picked it up, and
went on. Climbing down the spoke, he
laid the bicycle on its side, then turned it upside
down, mounted the pedals, pulled the machine up
from under him, and rode away. Up to this point
he had never touched the ground since first
mounting. Now, unscrewing the head and de-
taching the backbone with its little wheel, he
mounted from the pedals and rode the large wheel
alone with fork and handles, then let go the
handles and rode without them. Next, he took
the fork and handles off, mounted the wheel,
which was now divested of everything but pedals,
and guided it round with his hands on the rim.
Finally, lifting hands off, he rode without them.
Maltby’s show was a revelation to Sydney cyclists,
and it may furthermore be now announced that
Maltby dresses in black velvet tights, and that he
is so young that he hasn’t started whiskers yet.
■ *
A suit for £200 0 damages has been insti-
tuted against the Chicago Nbws by Charley
Mitchell, the English pugilist. Recently J. J.
M’Carthy, a oounty commissioner, sued that paper
for libel for saying that he had mistaken his call-
ing and should have been a pugilist, and Intimat-
ing that whenever he had a mill In a saloon some
one was robbed. M’Carthy was very angry at this,
and wanted to know the author of such a state-
ment, and the paper, a few days ago, in an
editorial, ironically stated that Charles Mitchell
was the authority for the statement, and Charles
is now going bald-headed for repair of his dam-
aged reputation.
* * *
Mitchell and Burke met in another of
their “draws” at Chicago on May 10, whensooo
people exchanged their dollars for a clever exhi-
bition of boxing. Matters were pretty even until
the ninth round, when Mitchell forced the fighting
from the start and landed blow after blow on
Burke’s ribs and face. Burke also got in several
hits but they were Jight. Mitchell was strong in
the tenth round and Burke was knocked against
the ropes at the very start. From that time on
Mitchell forced his opponent all over the ring.
Towards the end he got in a savage blow on
Burke’s face. The police then intervened, and the
exhibition was stopped, the referee deciding it a
draw, Blthough the audienoe howled its disap-
proval.
■ * *
By cable we learn Beach has at last some-
thing definite on hand, a sweepstakes of £2OO, with
£SOO added, having been fixed up for decision on
80th and 3lst August and Ist September. Beach
and Matterson have notified their intention of
entering for the stake, but Edward Hanlan cannot
be tempted out. He has declined to compete.
• * *
The It st of the races, one mile, between
the ex-amateurs, Yankee Myers and Britisher
George, came off at Madison-square Garden, New
York, on May 15. George went away with the
lead, and held it until the last turn was reached,
when running round the Englishman, Myers drew
level. Then ensued one of the most exciting
struggle? ever seen. Beth men turned on all
steam, running at top speed, shoulder to shoulder,
until 25 yards from the goal, when the American’s
phenomenal speed carried him to the fore, and
George's last desperate effort failing, Myers
landed the event by about sft. The time was
4min. 32 2-sseo .At a banquet tendered to the win-
ner, Myers, in reply to a toast dubbing him
“ Champion of the World,” said he could not con-
eider himself such until he had defeated Cum-
mings, of England, and T. M. Malone, of Sydney.
* * *
i The Referee has been informed that
William Beach, the champion sculler of the world,
was engaged by Mr. W. Riley, for the Cambridge
Music Hall. He was billed to appear there on the
34th of May. But we don’t know how William
oould amuse an audience, unless as an orator.
* * *
The eccentrioities of amateur joekeyship
provoked a scene at the last Caulfield Y.A.T.C.
meeting. There were four starters far the Vic-
toria Gold Cup, a two-mile steeplechase—gentle-
men riders. Slight odds were laid on Blackthorn
(ridden by Mr. W. Glasscock), 3 to 1 was taken
about Roulette (owner up), and at the last moment
some money was put &n the very moderate Fickle
(owned by Mr. G. Glasscock, and ridden by Mr. O.
Glasscock). The fourth horse was unmentioned
and unnoticed. On form the race was a match
between Blackthorn and Roulette, and so it
proved, until—by a most singular mischance, con-
sidering the experience of his rider—Blackthorn
galloped past the gap leading into the straight run
home, carrying Roulette with him. The latter’s
rider appeared quite innocent of the mistake he
had made until Mr. W. Glasscock suddenly turned
round and made for the right course. Meanwhile
the other Mr. Glasscock, on another Mr. Glass-
cock’s Fickle, had taken the proper turn and was
makiDg steadily for home. His brother brought
the favourite up hand over hand, but alas! Fickle
just won by a length. As for Roulette, he had been
put quite out of it by Blackthorn’s little mistake.
A hurricane of hootings greeted the brothers
Glasscock on returning to scale. The “demon-
stration” was mainly confined to the people on the
fiat, while the upper ten maintained an ominous
silence. An attempt to get up a counter-cheer
failed. Perhaps the outsiders were rash in jump-
ing to sinister conclusions. . Perhaps they attached
too much importance to the fact that Mr. W. G.
turned in his saddle when he was making the last
bend for home and carefully surveyed the position
of the field. Taken in conjunction with his sub-
sequent little mistake that minute survey was
somewhat unfortunate. The reporters of the
dairies are discreetly silent about it.
Even Sir Henry Parkes cannot resist the
prevailing infection. The Freetraders mu st argue
from facts, and as the facts, such as they desire,
are not obtainable, they, with the aid of brilliant
imagination, succeed in evolving them, Sir Henry
has, therefore, only followed the traditions of his
party in stating that " the coachmakers of N.S.W.
have beaten the American buggy-makers out of
the colony.” This is a magnificent Freetrade
“fact,” but is no more reliable than the Kiama
ghost for all that. The truth is that N.S.W.
buggies are, on the average, far inferior to those
of Victoria, and still more inferior to the American
importations. So far is this inferiority acknow-
ledged, that the few local manufacturers report
great depression in their trade at the present
time, induced by the excessive importations. This
is a specimen of “ Freetrade fact.”
One of the most fashionable of Australian
fads is the burial-ground fad. They have it worst,
perhaps, in Melbourne. The same people who
stroll complacently along by the side of foul,
open, drains have many sanitary misgivings about
living near graveyards. To the Londoner, accus-
tomed to see hundreds of tombstones, packed as
close as herrings, in the very busiest parts of the
metropolis, this Melbourne dread of the dead
must appear somewhat eccentric. When tne Vio-
torian Government granted permission for Arch-
bishop Goold to be put away in the vault of the
Roman Catholic Cathedral, people spoke sadly of
dangerous precedents and possible pestilences.
Great Scott! the English authorities have been
dropping corpses underneath old Westminster
Abbey, in a densely-populated locality, for cen-
turies past. Round about Bow Church, the
Mansion House, and the Guild Hall, there are
dozens of narrow streets containing sites of
churches, past and present. Each of these
churches did have, or still has, a little yard
attached to it, and every yard has received its full
complement of dear departed ones. When a
church gets very much in the way, it is
de-oonsecrated (a very touching ceremony I)
and pulled down. Then a magnificent monu-
ment is erected to the nameless dead ’uns
who slumber thereabouts in the shape of a
red brick six-storey warehouse. But all this reck-
less indifference to the abiding places of their
ancestors doesn’t prevent Londoners from enjoy-
ing a very healthy death-rate. What human
being stands a better chance of turning the cen-
tury than a placid Grosvener-square dowager?
Longevity is one of the privileges of an existence
in that favoured spot, flowing with milk and
money. Statistics might be quoted to prove the
statement. Yet, listen to this—Grosvenor-square
and Grosvenor-place are built on the very fields
wherein were deposited the victims of the great
plague of London I Tens of thousands of bones
are rotting in plague-pits under jolly old family
mansions. And what has been the result ? Largely
increased ground-rents have followed on this en-
richment of the soil. The Melbourne outcry
against the sanitary condition of graveyards has
little foundation in fact. So little, indeed, that we
are inclined to fancy that many occupants of the
local cemeteries are now occupying the healthiest
homes they ever had in their lives.
Marie Brizard I
Sustain the vigour and elasticity of the system
with the inestimable tonic Wolfe's Schnapps.
To Fat People.—Dr. Russell’s English
Cure for Corpulency, reduces from 5 to 7 pounds
weekly. Reduces from sto 7 pounds weekly. For
Corpulency. For Corpulency. English Cure,
English Cure. Br. Russell’s. Dr. Russell’s. In
cases at Reduced prices. Corpulency can be
Cured. Blliott Bros., and all Chemists.


Pijia [?] Christianity.
The latest " Christian” murder committed i"
Fiji says vary lit 1 le for th s surooss of missionary
enterprise in that group The difference between
the modern Bib'e assassination and the old-
fashioned heathen homicide, we may explain, is
that the converted niggsr tells lies afterwards,
and says he did not do it, while his unconverted
progenitor used to mash up his enemy as a matter
of business, and then return in triumph, and
point out to his friends the marks on the
chief end of his club, as something to he
proud of. Lately 11 men who were fondly eup-
piqpd to be shining lights in the seantily-claci
native church conspired against their chief, a so a
pet lamb in the mission flock, and by means ot
wrath and violence, combined with knobby sticks,
treachery, and hard bumping, they feloniously
converted the said lamb into mutton. their
tri il if appeared, the Ordinary F jian religion is a
kind of spiritual shandygaff, consisting of ent
part Bible and two parts fetish and timber-god,
and to the latter, wo presume, the crime maybe
ascibcd. The Pdyncsians attend church in the
morning, and how down to their own sandal wood
deity in the afternoon, their devotion to the latter
being much the more reliable sentiment of the
two. The eleven murderers of Buli Bureia.
the missionary merino already a'luded to,
wore led by a sorcerer, in whose power they
sem to have placed Implicit faith, and
whom they dared not disobey. These rr ve-
-1 itions open an unexpected prospect for gen-
tlemen of the white-choker fraternity whe
may be disengaged and on the outlook for a
stony field of labour, for there is evidently still
much room for the use of evangelical dynamite
jn blasting out the rocky superstitions which ft ran
the foundation of Fijian religion. Most people of
Australia fondly imagined that the wooden ged
had long sicca been split into post and rail fences,
and that the sorcerer of past times now passed the
plate and gathered intheoocoanuts of thefaithfu',
while the ex-canDibals of the congregation sarg
gomekird of caked dexoiogy, hut these latest
revelations have altQgetber spoiled this cheerlul
theory, and apparently we must raise another
scription for the souls of the heatheD, and start
1 he whole sacred j rb afresh.
i>*s»nnaent of Public Worn.
Sydney. July P, W 6
T3NDRR3 for PUBLIC WORCB aua 60
PLIES.—TENDERS are Invited for the fol
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full P'jrti
culars see Govbbnmhnt Gazbttb, a file of whler
Is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be In attendance when the tender#
are opened, and the name of the successfu
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before th#
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un
less the terms of the notice are strictly compile* 1
Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
W. Ji. LYNB.
ixtaiMHiiX
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
AUCTIONEERS, GENERAL COMMISSION
AGENTS.
SALE'S of HORSES and PEDIGREE BTOCK
hdd daily at the CITY HORSE .and CATTLE
BAZAAR (lately occupied by Mr. Kiss). Also, sales
of FAT STOCK at HOMEBGSH and C
CORPORA-
TION YARDS.
Office-175 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
!USsiß|iA&§
I Rg&mgsitdL
gTUDT BCONOMY
HaveyourTJ mbrella Frame*
re-covercd, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J, SULLIVAN'S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Idverpool and Bathurst St»
Parasols made to match cot
tunes Ttanair* neatly ay*
•«t»*
T
IHB FRRSH FOOD AND ICR COMP AN 5
(Limited)
have Opened a
BRANCH DBPOt
At
No. 23 Royal Arcade,
where they supply
Mllh, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Coooa, Sto„ with
light refreshments.
At this Branoh, orders may be left for deliyery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency fer
“KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulur -
nary complaints.
Frjsh Fold and fee Co., Limited ,
Heal Office.» ~ ~
Stabl?3 •* •••
Factory .. , •*
*1 Harbour-street
.. Liverpool-street.
•st Mittagong.
SKA T K B
c a ‘ A I R_L * 0 r A L -
illiamson, Gabnbr and Musoboti, Mara*, rs.
sace, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman
WILLIAMSOM BBASON.
THIKu WEEK.
Of the
WILLIAMSONS,
MAGGIE MOORS and J C. WILLIAMSON,
and
FAREWELL PERFORMANCES IN SYDNEY,
of
STRUCK OIL.
I >HN STOFF/L Mr. Williamson.
IZZIE STOFEL Miss Maggie Moore.
And the intensely amusing topical Farce the
CHINESE QUESTION.
The Williamsons in their orginal characters
I :sinesi Manager for Mr. Williamson, Mr. Hughes.
Prices as usual. Box nlan now open.
THEATRE
(late Olympic), Ycrk etre't.
Lessee T. Buckley
üb-Lessee and Proprietor ... Cnarles Hugo.
THE TRIUMPHAL FLAG
of
UNPRECEDENTED SUCCESS
still proudly waves at tha above Theatre, where
HUGO S BUFFALO MINSTRELS
and
CIRCLE OF ACCOMPLISHED LADIES
ire putting forward the Greatest and Beßt Pro-
grammes submitted to a Sydney audi nee.
THIS WEEK,
A GRAND NEW PROGRAMME.
Orchestra Stalls, 3?.; Centre Chairs, 3Gallery, 13.
Gallery entrance In Clarence street.
Ladies’ Cloak Rcoir. Ushers in attendance.
Free ’buses run every evening from 7 to 8 from
the intersection of Market and Elizabeth streets
d'rect to the Theatre. The public are cordially
invited to take advantage of the same.
HAROLD ASHTON, Business Manager.
Royal standard theatre,
Castlereash- street,
Between Liverpool and Bathurst streets.
Lessee Mr. Frank Smith.
Under the Management of Mr. Dampier.
Business Manager Mr. Fred. Gunther
A DISTINCT UNEQUIVOCAL triumph.
To Avoid Crush at Night, purchase Tickets during
the day at Cole’s Book Arcade.
Box Plan open at Nicholson’s Oeorge-street.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING,
The written expressly for Mr. Dampier by
Thomas S >mers, , ard entitled.
FOR 'taii xabM OF HIS NATURAL LIFE,
Interpreted bv
MR. DAMPIER
and his Dramatio Company.
Popular Prices—Dress Circle 33,, Stalls 2a., Pit Is.
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee Mr. John Solomon
Business Manager. . - Mr. B. N. Jones.
A PERFECT FURORE GREETS A3OLA,
The Beautiful Lady Athlet’, actually shet from
a Monster Gun 29 feet from the stage to the Dome
of the 1 heatre, and caught hand to hand by
OHMY
FUN FUN
FUN on the BRISTOL.
H. J. SAMUEL, Representative for Mr. John F,
Sheridan.
Or MUSIC.
Proprietor and Manager.. Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
TRIENNIAL TRIUMPH
of
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and SPECIALITY UNION.
FEDERATED FACTION OF FUN-FACTOBS.
FURNISHERS OF FROLICSOME FARRAGO
EBULLITIONS OF ECCENTRICITIES
EVERY EVENING.
ACADEMY OF MUSIC.
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING.
PROFESSOR S. 8. BALDWIN
In his Illustrated Lectures. There is no use in
attempting a description in a brief advertisement,
sufloc3.it to say that on last Sunday hundreds were
toned away.
Goon. Music I Good Singing ! Good Talking I
Admission—SlXPENCE and ONE SHILLING.
PROTESTANT HALL,
Castie.eßgh-street.
His Excellency has kincly tendered his patro-
nage for the Benefit of
MR. E. A. HART
(Happy Hours),
to take place WEDNESDAY, July 14th, when he
will be assisted hy over 30 performers (including
ladies and gentlemen), with the kind permission
of Mts.rs. Hiscocks, Hugo, and Frank Smith.
Popular Prices- 35.. 2s, Is.
Performance to commei ca at 8 o'clock.
APANESB VILLAGE.
EXHIBITION BUILDING.
LAST NIGHT BUT ONE
of this pre-eminently successful and Brobdignagiau
Collection of Industrial and Theatrical
Incongruities.
NOTICE—IN NINE WEEKS 178,425 people paid to
witness THE JAPANESE VILLAGE.
An undeniable fact of Unprecedented Parallel in
the Annals of Australian Amusements.
TMPORTANr.—It is with deep regret that Mr.
Willard announces the c gso of the season here;
but it is absolutely imperative that the Exhibition
Building is vacated b lore July 9, to allow of due
preparations for the Scientific Exhibition. As the
loss of time and cost of rebuilding are very great,
there is not the slightest possibility of
THE JAPANFSE VILLAGE
REVISITING SYDNEY.
REMEMBER
THE LAST 2 NIGHTS.
L
Y NCH
Manager
FAMILY BELLRINGERS
(Organised 1867).
Harry Lynch.
NORTHERN TOUR.
Copeland, Thursday, July 8
Tincnee, Friday, July 9
Taree. Saturday and Monday, July 10 12
Wingham, Tuesday and Wndresdav, July 13,14
Thursday acd Friday July 15 10
Port Macquarie, Saturday and Montsy, July 17,19
Kempsey, Tues., Wed , Tnura., July 20, *1, 22
GraftoD. Casino, Lismoie, &c , to fol.ow.
Sydney Farewell season, September and October.
Adansion— 4s ,3 *. and 2i. Uoorsopen at 7 30,
Orerture at 8
JAMES SMITH,) A „ pnt . H
H. E BAR'IBS, \ Agents.
F.Lit’a &YON Y GYMNASIUM,
Atnar of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &c. For
terms, &e., apply to .
H. M. CANSDELL,
Manager and Instructor.
rHB ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
George-atreet, Haymarket.
Proprl tor and Manager Mr. Frank 8m ith.
usiness and Stage Manager ... Mr. E. Shipp.
The Home of Minstrelsy and Mirth.
iThe Popular and Fashionable Resort.
rO-NIGHT, and every evening during the week,
THE ALHAMBRA VARIETY and SPECIALTY
UNION in their refined entertainment.
MINSTELSY, OLIO, and FARCE.
Popular Prioes: Orohestra chairs, 2s; stalls, Is;
o doony, Is.
Every Bunday Night, Grand Concert Spiritual,
at 7 30 o’clock.
Sydney Bicycle Club.
FIFTH Annual Intercolonial Amateur Coaffi-
pion
BICYCLE and TRICYCLE RACE MEETING.
Under (he Patronage and Rules of the N.S.W.
Cj c ists’ Union. *
To, be held at the N.S.W. Crickst Association
Ground, Moore Park, Sydney, N.S.W,
On SATURDAY, 14th AUGUST, 1880.
PfiOGRAMME.
1. One Mile Malden Bicycle Handicap, to be ridden
on roadsters. Minimum weight, 35.b5.
2. One Mile Open Bicycle Handicap
3 One Mi.o Invitation Scratch Bicjcle Race
4. Ten Miles’ Bicj e'e Amateur Championship of
N.^.W.—The OHrdiner Cup
5. Two Mileb’ Scratch Bicycle Race—The Millbrook
Challenge Cup „ , ,
0. Three Miles’ Bicycle Handicap—The Lades
Bracelets. Competitors in this raca mu6t be
nominated by ladies
7. One Mile All Schools' Bicycle Handicap
8 One Mile Tricycle Haudicap
!). 440 yards’ Handicap Foot Race.
THREE PRIZES IN EACH EVENT.
All events open to all Amateurs.
Entries e’esi on Monday. 2 id August, at 9 o’clock
p m., with the hon. sec., 297 George-street, Sydney,
from whom entry foims may be obtained.
J. WILKES. Hod. See.
THEATRE ROYAL,
Rockhampton.
THE above favourite house of Amusement has
just been thoroughly renovated, and is now
open to Travelling Companies.
For terms, &c., apply to
CHARLES NASH,
Proprietor.
D 0
B B Y N S' H
Junee Junction.
ALL,
Built of Brick, Large and Commodious, well
Lighted, Complete Scenery, Centre of Town.
Write for particulars.
6. DOBBYNS,
Proprietor.
w.
J. HOLLOWAY
and
MISS ESSIE JENYNS,
supported by their especially selected Company,
in
“A Ring of Iron,” “A Mad Marriage,” “The
Broken Idol,” “ Romeo and Juliet,” “Much Ad >
About Nothing,” “As You Like It,” &c., &c.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE, JUNE 7th,
for Thirteen Weeks.
ERCANTILE ROWING CLUB
Patron: Hia Excellency, RARON Carrington.
K.C.M.G . P C.;
President: The Hon. J. B. Watt, M.L.C.
The Committee of the above desire to intimate
that through the Mayor’p Ball having necessarily
been fixed for the 22ad instant, their
Eleventh Annual Ball,
under the patronage of the Worshipful the Mayor,
JOHN YOUNG, Esq.,
who, with the Lady Mayoress, has promised to be
present.
has been POSTPONED to, and will be held in the
TOWN HALL,
ON WEDNESDAY. AUGUST 3.
Tickets, limited, obtainable from members of
the committee Only.
R. A. KBDDIE, Hon. Treasurer.
W. A. BLaCKSTONE, Hon. Secretary.
Telerraph Department.
FEASTS and ENTERTAINMENTS to the In-
mates of the Destitute Asylums at Liverpool,
Parramatta, and Newington.
Any donations kindly forwarded to the hon.
Treasurer, care of Mr. Quong Tart, bydney Arcade,
will be thankfully received and duly acknow-
ledged.
June 22,1886.
ROBT. GUY,
A. C. HhWLETT,
j- Joint Secs.
J. MURPHY’S
Central Loan and Discount
Offices,
CORNER OF KENT & LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite George-street.
Money Lent at the Lowest Rate of Interest
in this City.
Loans from la. to £lOOO, at lOd. in the £
per Month.
Loan? on Gold and Silver Jcwellrry, Clothing, and
't-very description of Portable Property, granted
at nates never before attempted in this Colony.
American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
at J. Murphy’s Central Loan and Dis-
count Offices, corner of Kent andLi\ erpool streets
op josite George-streot.
HE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
BYDNEY BRANCHES:
*4 PITT-STREET, and 638 GEORGE-BTREET.
Paid-up Capital... ... .. £1,000,000
Reserve Fund .. .. ». 676,000
T’-Ms Bank has Agent* in ail the principal cities
fsrougbout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
».nd CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. 018 l (N Acilng-Manag' r.
UNDER THE PATRONAGE OF HIS EXCEL-
LENCY LORD CARRINGTON.
SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
JUST ARRIVED, ex “Maisillia,” 12 Casas of
the
Finest Egyptian Cigarettes,
specially selected by Mr. N.tAKE on his tour to
Europe, and being a thoxpugn connoisseur in
Cigarettes, he recommends them to his patrons as
being of the finest quality made.
Also, a large eh'pment of the world-renowned
“ piller’s,”
whose reputation is universally known by the
smokers of the first quality of cigarettes.
TO BE HAD ONLY AT
J. NOAKf/S EST BLISHMENTS
320 and 446 George-st ,
AND
Pall Mall, Hunter-street.
E
YRRYBODY
SHOULD USB
PEMELL'S
BXTRA SUPERFINE
FIjOBR
IT IS MADE FBOM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE Is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
SSI Georre-street, Sydney.
Great eastern condiment company
are prepared to execute aDy order that
they may he favoured with, on the most reasonable
terms.
To arrive—l6o Cases INDIAN CONDIMENTS,
consisting of Chutney, in various siz-*?. in
all the well-known brands: Curry Powder, in
tins and boitles ; Pickles and Indian Sauces.
Preserves, Jellies, Jams, Fish, aDd Tamarinds,
Curry ana Mulligatawney Pastes, Bombay
Duck, &c.
Letters and orders to be addressed to the
manager,
31 and 33 HUNTER STREET.
asd
363 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
SINGER
and Co.’s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap.
JOHN HANKS,
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
MASON BROTHERS
fas
df
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent SSsraat,
Sydney,
Here always In STOCK, for BALI
to the TRADE and WHOLE*
BALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
urn
■ ARTHHNWABE,
WINES, BEERS, Aim SPIRITS
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents-for
JOHN WALKER and SON
Old Highland Whisky j
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac,
J.T.GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Genera.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
Newest Invention’— Greatest Novelty.
TH£ Y & N
DIAGONAL
PATENT
BEAM
COESET,
Patented in England and on the Continent. Will not split in
the seams nor rear in the Fabric. Exquisite model. Perfect
comfort. Guaranteed wear.
Le Follet says:— A novel invention in Corsets admirably calculated to
prevent the very disagreeable occurrence of split seams. The cutis very
good and becoming, and may be adapted to any figure with advantage.”
The Queen says“ These Corsets are a new departure. The material is
cut on the cross, and the component parts being also arranged diagonally,
the seams have no strain. They are admirably modelled, exquisitely neat
and strong, and the workmanship all that could be desired." Caution. —Beware of worthless imitations.
Every genuine Y&N Corset is stamped “ Y & N Pathnt Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116,” in oval.
Gold Medal, N'.w Zealand Exhibition, 1882. Gold Medal, HIGHEST AWARD for Corsets, London
International Exhibition, 1884 _ .... . _ ,
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies' Outfitters in the United Kingdom and Colonies.
■


SUNDRY SHOWS
Theatre royal— I “StruokOil” p. 8
Gaiety Theatre— “ Fun on the Bristol”... „
Alhambra— Minstrelsy, Olio, and Farce „
Royal Standard Theatre -“His Natural
Life” .v:
Princess Theatre.— Hugo’s Buffalo Min-
Exhibition Building- Japanese village ..
academy of Music.—Federal Minstrels
Lynch Family of Bellringers—Northern Tour „
The “ Woman ia White,” at Sydney Opera
House, is a decided success, but its many devia-
tions from the text show that the usual difficulty
has b3oa experienced in turning a splendid novel
into a good drama. The existence of this difficulty
of course implies no censure on the playwright,
for the most brilliant writers for the stage oiten
find themselves heavi'y handicapped when they
essay to compress a lunatlc-originally issued in
three volumes—into the compass of four parts,
with a preliminary yell through a vestry window.
Even our friend George’s brilliant attempt to
turn Paul’s Epistle to toe Ephesians into an Aus-
tralian bush-drama, by inserting a gang of coiners
and a runaway bullock-dray, met with a very
limited success, and yet the abilities of George
and of Paul as apo9tles and comedians are un-
doubtedly of a very high order. The “ Woman in
White ” is announced, however, as the joint pro-
duction of Wilkie Collins and Wybert Reeve, and
possibly a few of its inequalities may be due to
the d fferenca in style of the two authors The
position of a oollaborateur is a thankless one at
the beat, but the difficulties of joint authorship
are often lessened by allowing the bigger man of
the pair to write the leading part s while the other
composts the dialogue for the character whose
dead body ii found lying in the middle of the
stage when the curtain rises for the ffsit act. As
this individual does not geaerally say much, any
divergeacts In the manner of writing are thus
rendered almost imperceptible.
♦ * *
Very few are unacquainted with the story
of the “ Woman in White.” The drama, however,
is constructed by maDgling up the original tale
with a circular saw, and then piecing together the
amputated fragments of the characters until they
become at times almost unrecognisable. Anne
Catherick appears in the first scene nursiDg a
Russia-leather pocket-book, which Sir Percival
Glyde takes from her and flings into Woolioo-
mooloo Bay. He then burglarises the parish church,
and, alter the fashion of most stage villains, he
tells the tale of his debts and bis wickedness to a
table and two hard-bottomed chairs, while the
window above his head yawns at the recital until
it threatens to dislocate the lower jaw of the sa;h.
Walter Hartwright sits on a damp tombstone out-
side while these events are in progress. Count
Fosoo appears Jater on and takes Anne Cathe-
rick to his motherly bosom, which is almost
as capacious as tbit of Abraham. The wily
Italian is dressed in the patriot flig of the
Southern States, cut bias and trimmed with
unfathomable wickedness, and he leads Sir Per-
cival Glyde on to murder and abduction and em-
bezzlement and other acts of discourtesy which
are highly reprehensible To right-minded men,
therefore, the Count is a disappointment. Con-
sidering the influence he exercises over the
baronet, he might be expected to heave that in-
dividual right over the jasper fence into Paradise,
but, instead, he turns the coat-tail of scorn on his
better self, and drags his companion to a watery
grave. Marion Halcombe, the sister of Lady
Glyde, stands nobly forward to protect that perse-
outed lady, but considering the men she has to
deal with, it would have been more to the point if
She had chased them with an axe into the neigh-
bouring hills. Walter Hartwright, a virtuous
drawing-master, aids her in this good work, but he
is not of much value. We have met with men of
his profession whose abilities were suoh that they
could draw anything from a crowded house to a
cat's-meat cart, but Walter can do neither. Retri-
bution, however, descends on the Count from an
unexpected quarter; avenging Fate throws a
half brick at him in the last act, and he sleeps
With his fathers under the shadow of a
packing-case in a furnished house in St. John’s
Wood. He is cool and collected, however, to the
last, and even when mortally wounded he looks
carefully around till he finds a favourable spot on
the dusty carpet where he can lie down and
shuffle off this mortal coil in peace. He had such
difficulty in discovering a soft place that we half
expected at one time he would be reduced to die
up against the wall, or to perish standing erect
amidst the Japanese bric-a-brac, but this sacrifice
of human dignity was fortunately averted.
* * *
Wybert Reeve gives a splendid rendering of
Fosoo, and the only fault that can be found is that
he does not die soon enough. The audience watch
his portly figure in the last act as he goes out to
“shoo” a tom-cat off the baok fence, and when
they hear two shots fired they naturally conclude
that he has hopped this terrestrial twig, and will
be seen no more. But after the rest of the charac-
ters have gathered together and conversed for a
short time on various important the
Count unexpectedly rises in the east, and, hanging
on to an onion-net in the doorway, looks around
with the saddened air of a man who has just
missed his tram. Then he comes in slowly,
takes a formal leave of his friends one by one,
and sits down dead on the Kidderminster carpet
to wa>t for the arrival of the undertaker. A little
more agility in dying would make Mr. Reeve’s
rendering as complete as could be desired. Miss
Myra Kemble, in the double character of Anne
Catherick and Laura Glyde, was almost faultless,
and in the very first act her hack hair took the audi-
ence by storm. Mr. Brian Darley, as Sir Percival
Glyde, showed that he possesses considerable
qualifications for being a villain, and we would
only remind him that it is better to be a successful
villain than an unsuccessful 'saint. We have tried
both and we know. Miss Emily Fitzroy presented
too many psrsonal attractions to answer the
novelist's description of Marion Haleomb, but she
was one of the most attractive features in the
Derformance; and when we mention, in conclusion,
that Mr. Hoyt wore a pair of light trousers, our
notioe of the drama is tolerably complete.
• * • *
The name of Hugo’s Buffalo Minstrels,
now playing at the Sydney Princess’s, is one which
recalls the mind to happy memories of a vanished
childhood. We wiped our eyes with the tail of the
programme as we thought of that long-past era
when we were accustomed to read Fenimore
Cooper and others of that ilk, and when our
greatest ambition was to be a Buffalo Bill or a
Noble Savage, or a DeerslaTer, and bunt the
bounding alligator or the ferocious boojum on the
nrairies of America. Hugo s buffalo, however, is
a peaceful animal, and its horn is reserved strictly
for musical purposes. It is diffleult to distinguish,
indeed, between the buffalo and the buffalo-
hunters but we remember, in the penny novels of
our youth, that the latter used to paint very ex-
tensively, and were spotted with all sorts of
colours Perhaps this forms the criterion on the
stage as well as in the wilderness.
* * •
The performance at the Princess is a con-
siderable improvement on the ordinary run of
minstrel entertainments. The jokes of the two
downtrodden Ethiopians who wield the bones and
the banjo had a certain charm, for they were all
either much older or much newer than the average.
The moat ancient dated from the time when David
was editing the Psalms, but it was well received all
the same. The dancing, too, was a good feature.
Mr. Hugo apparently knows the popularity
of human legs in such an entertainment,
and all the rhyme and melody which can
be extracted from 22 of them is made tolerably
conspicuous. Fred Garnett, the contortionist,
however, is the greatest favourite with the
audience, and his performance leads us to think
the lobster must be a nobler animal than is gener-
ally supposed, when a man who approaches so
nearly to its boneless condition evokes such unani-
mous applause. From our position it was difficult
at times to follow his antics, but so far as we could
see, he crawled twice down his own throat, head
foremost and came, out again at the back of bis
neck, and then varie'i the amusement by bringing
his foet over the top of his hair and tying bis legs
in a knot to take the place of a cravat. He also
walked on his spare rib and on other parts or his
anatomy, which were never meant to be walked
upon, and in other ways he showed a degree of
elasticity which more than equals that exhibited
by a tom-cat when a friend endeavours to extract
him from an ash-barrel by the tail.
* * *
The attendance was the best we have seen
at the Princess for a considerable time, and that
wilderness, which has so longibeen irrigated with
free passes only to bring forth a scanty crop of
deadheads, now promises to blossom once more.
But we oannot help thinkiDg the public will one
day grow tired of Ethiopians and long for a
change. Even the patient Moses, after 30 years ia
the wilderness, grew weary of manna, and when he
studied the menu at dinner one day he was over-
heard to say something to Aaron which sounded
like “ D—n that hash.’ For this reason we would
suggest as a startling novelty the Introduction of
a Chinese bones or some suoh variation, as a
change on the unvarying diet of hashed nigger
which has been so long endured by this long-
suffering generation.
» • m »
The Stofel family still hold the stage of
Sydney Royal. John and his daughter mingle
their laughter and tears, and the audience follows
their adventures with sj mpathy. The only stick—
if a sedate and stately lady will permit such a term
to be applied to her—in the Dutchman's household
is Miss Watt-Tanner’s Susan Stofel. Susan Is
John’s second wife and Lizzie’s stepmother. It is
lotelllgible that she may feel herself at some little
distance from the heart of the domestic life. It is
not, though, her duty to accept total exclusion.
Susan sits an apathetic onlooker while father and
daughter are interesting one another. Were she
only a visitor she would manifest more com-
munity of sentiment. Mies Watt-Tanner’s affected
isolation and frigid reserve are, perhaps, intended
to enhance, by contrast, the vivacity of Miss
Maggie Moore; but, if so, it is not good art which
destroys the natural life of one charaoter to secure
all eyes for another.
* * *
Possibly, also, an attempt to pourtray a
not uncommon type of step-mother has some-
thing to do with It. But the Stofel household was
not the place for this class of person. It is too
often a faot that the step-mother is an incubus on
the family-circle. The grown-up young people
look askance at her. They take her to be fllling
boots which, once empty, they want to stay empty
for ever. Her husband, when the family are
around, addresses her under a sense of timidity
and restraint. He Is effusive enough when the
coast is clear, but when his daughter with the
bangles is present, or when his hoodlum of a boy
with a faint smell of cigarette-smoke on bis
breath is about, he behaves with diplomatic cau-
tion and prudent reserve. In time this treatment
stamps a character on a young second wife.
However frank, ingenuous, and impulsively
affectionate she may naturally be, she Is
chilled into seclusion. The minx with the
bangles and the c'garettish hoodlum jookey
her to the outside of all family communion.
Hence she is often a stranger at her own fireside.
Externally she looks cold, because internally she
has been frozen. It is in such cases we like a
woman to call up her militant qualities. We like
to hear of her stepping boldly on to the centre of
the hearthstone some morning and informing the
cautious diplomatist that henceforth she will be
mistress of the whole cencern. It will, in the
long run, we think, be better for herself, better
for her timorous husband, and better for the
captious young people, if valorousiy she will do
this.
* ■ *
But such a step-mother cannotbe conjured
up in the household of John Stofel. An adequate
reason for the apathetic demureness of Miss Watt-
Tanner s Susan can, therefore, only be found in
the author’s conception of the character.
m # m m
At the Sydney Royal Standard, Rufus
Dawes and the other carefully-as3orted mur-
derers who make up the convict gang promise,
like the ancient Pharaohs, to live for ever. Since
the piece was first put on the boards. Captain
Frere has died more than 20 times, but he always
comes back from—well, the exact location is his
own look-out—in time to be cut off in his flower
once more. There is a worn spot on the boards
of the stage where he comes down with a thump
every night and gives up the ghost, and a crowd
still gathers regularly to witness the performance.
m m # m
A complimentary benefit to Mr. Hart, of
“ Happy Hours ” fame, i 3 announced in the Pro-
testant Hall, Sydney, to take place onl4thJuly,
previous to his departure on a visit to Europe.
The company on the occasion will consist of about
30 performers, many of whom belong to the com-
panies of Messrs. fii3eooks, Charle3 Hugo, Frank
Smith, and others, these gentlemen haviDg afl
kindly offered their co-operation on the oocasion.
* * *
It must, in justice to Mr. Alfred Dampier,
be stated that he has evidently never intended to
use for dramatic purposes the late Mr. Marcus
Ciarke's novel,” His Natural Life,” without taking
into consideration the moral claim of the author's
widow to a royalty. We have evidence that Mr.
Dampier has sent Mrs. Clarke a cheque for £l2,
representing a royalty of £1 per night for the first
twelve nights of the drama’s runinBydney; and
we are assured that Mr. Dampier only awaits Mrs.
Clarke’s acknowledgment of the amount named to
forward another cheque of similar proportions.
Considering that Mr. Dampier is not legally bound
to pay Mrs. Clarke a single penny, we are ef
opinion that he is acting in a most honorable and
liberal manner.
* * * *
Professor 8. 8. Baldwin, at the Sydney
Gaiety, is doing good business among the ungodly
Sabbath-breakers. Mnsie, singing, and an elo-
quence of which the Professor has a patent, con-
stitutes the attraction. But, after all, it is mourn-
ful to behold men paying their shillings for
diversion, when, consequent upon the keenness of
competition, they can obtain salvation for next to
nothing.
* * * *
We could only find time for a hasty glance
at the Gaiety one night this week, and we found
the Widow O'Brien in a truly distressing position.
She was suffering from an agony of sea sickness
on board the good ship Bristol, which was rolling
in a stiff breez9, and (we mention this with a
blush) Ehe was dressed mainly in a life belt, cut
low at the neck and rather short in the skirt.
Evidently she had just sprung from her couch,
and it is a matter for congratulation that in her
haste she was not reduced to attiring herself in a
coal-scuttle or some even worse article of apparel.
This is the first occasion when we have seen an
evening-dress life-belt in use, and, considering
that the fashionable style of the present day con-
sists in the absence of so many things once re-
garded as essentials in a lady’s dress, it occurred to
us that it mghtbe more generally adopted with
advantage. .
“ His Natural L'.fe ” (George Leitch ver-
sion) is crowding all parts, save the magic circle,
of the Melbourne Royal. Sundry little devices
were devoted to giving this gruesome trifle a good
send-off. A mysterious somebody sought to
legally restrain the Triumvirate from producing
this great work on copyright grounds. That
abortive law-suit will return a good deal more
than 60 per shent on the outlay. Tnen, as a special
lure for the gods, a cold-blooded police-inspector
“ ran in ” the perambulation convict supers, told
off for advertising purposes. There was genius in
this last stroke, and it has earned its due reward.
Each Melbourne larrikin drops in about three
t mes a week on an average to feast upon the
horrors of Port Arthur. The convicts, in a word,
are the marrow of the show. Some clever scenes
and magnificent impossibilities of plot go for
something, but the gentlemen in yellow bring the
money; dress circle, of course, excepted. A
little circumstance, which ocourred on the opening
night, may partly account for the lukewarm re-
ception accorded to “ His Natural Lire ” in this
quarter. The artless little daughter of one of
society’s brightest ornaments was looking at Gab-
bett and Co. with childlike interest. She waited
until there was a deathly silence in the house
before enquiring: “Is that how grandpa was
dressed when he got to Sydney? ”
•* * W
“A Scrap of Paper” constitutes the bill
at Melbourne Bijou. The art of manufacturing
natural complications out of nothing at all has
been brought to perfection by Victor Sardou.
“A Scrap of Paper,” even in its English garb,
strikes us as a masterpiece of iDgenious audacity.
A little more all-round audacity in the Bijou com-
pany would make it go 19 to the dozen. Signora
Majeroni plays the principal part as the author
meant it to be played. Mr. H. N. Douglas repre-
sents an eccentric globe-trotter in a style which is
certainly unconventional, and frequently funny.
One or two of the others are fairly good, and two
or three of them are rather otherwise Perhaps
too much versatility of genius is expected from
the company. The next production is “Marie
Antoinette ” Now, between airy French comedy
and sober historical drama there Is a great gulf
fixed.
* * *
A new concert company from America,
comprising three young lady pianistes (one of
whom is an admirable violinist), a prima donna,
and an Italian buffo, will shortly make their
appearance in Sydney.
** * *
The Zerbini Quartetfe Party, with their
director, Mr. T. H. Guenett, are going to give a
couple of chamber conoeris in Sydney, on the
line of the Melbourne Popular Concertp, the 73rd
of which was given last week. Lord and Lady
Cariogton will be present at the first concert,
which will be given in the Y.M.C. A. Hall-said to
be the best ball for music in the city.
** « «
Under the motto of “refinement without
vulgarity” the Sydney Alhambra rejoices in
audiences as crowded as those which rally up to a
street dog-fight, or a land-sale lunch. The
Coghlans, fathor and daughter, have lately filled a
fair section of the bill. Coghlan p ere knocks saw-
dust out of the Japanese bag-pipes, an alleged
musical instrument, which is pleasant enough for
a short spell, but when prolonged becometh as
distressing as a nine-hour oration by the Padding-
ton Apollo. It is just about a fair thing, though,
to say that Mr. Coghlan does not unduly prolong
the melody. Coghlan fille does the sand-smashing
b'z. in a thorough and conscientious manner.
* * *
Edith Wilson, the sisters Pullen, and the
other segments of the semi-circle earn their ap-
plause conscientiously; and Frank Smith, as he
beneficently gazes upon the enthusing crowd,
seems lost in contemplation of prospective glories,
comprising future empires or at least a C.M.G.-ship.
** * *
The Lynch Family are doing the usual
money-racing up at D ungog (tf.S. Wj That shows
the difference of bells: when they ring them,
people are empowered with the grateful florin
and the welcome robert, but when bells are rung
at Sydney churches, all men are moved to rise up
and cuss all persoascencerned in the performance.
Yet, after all, perhaps, ic would be much the same
if Harry Lynch ran a church. We advise him not
to do so, though. There is more respectability in
the line he now favours.
mm m m
J. R. Rogers, manager for Miss Minnie
Palmer, some time ago offered a reward for the
most original and effective means of advertising
his show, and has recently proved his own undeni-
able claim to the money. His last move shows
that he knows more about the art of obtaining
cheap ads. than anyone in the universe can teach
him. And he oarried out the Idea so cleverly, too.
He just sat down'and wrote this bloodthirsty note
to a member of the same company“ Mr. C
Arnold.—My contempt and hate for you is such
that only death can satiate. I feel that suoh curs
as you are unfit to live. Name a place and time
and let us go in a room, lock the door, and only
one can come out alive to tell the tale.—Your
enemy, J. R. Rogers.” Then, of course, Mr.
Arnold, with a deep respect for the laws of the
country, rushed off and laid an information
against the gore-seeking Rogers, and special pars,
went the round of the Press, and sub-leaders on this
attempt to revive duelling in England were in half
the London papers. Then the case was called in the
police court on Monday, and an adjournment
granted till Thursday, thus leaving the matter in
suspense for three more days. On Thursday
there was no defence offered by Mr. Rogers, and
his thirst for gore having apparently evaporated,
he meekly apologised and submitted to be bound
over to keep the peace. He even by hia counsel
went so far as to say that he had no intention of
fighting a duel, and as Mr. Arnold did not feel any
animoßity, the case was easily settled. This adver-
tisement by duel Is a magnificent idea, but it may
be considerably overdone. Mr. Rogers would do
well to bury his “ contempt and hate ” within the
bounds of his own bosom in future.
*■**
Scene from Mhcbeth, revised version
Macbeth: “There's blood upon thy face.” Mur-
derer, with his mind drifting miles away, and
perfectly unconscious oi what he is saying;
“ There is.” Macbeto, staggered for a moment as
to hew he shall proceed, asks suggestively : “ Is’t
Banquo's blood ?” Murderer, mechanically : “It
is.” Macbeth : “ Thou art the best o’ cut-throats.”
Murderer, interrupting : "1 am.” Macbeth, with
a groan : “ Yet he’s good that did the like for
Fleanoe.” Murderer, smiling idiotically : “He
Is.” Macbeth, now wildly spasmodic : “I’ll brain
you when I came off ;’* aloud and suggestive, as
before: “Is not Fieance ’scaped?” Murderer:
“ He is.” Macbeth : “Then comes my fit again.”
Murderer : “It does.” Macbeth, makiog a rush at
murderer: “You confounded beast, get out.”
Murderer, with a startled jump : “I will,” and he
did.
We have news of Mr. and Mrs. Charles
Turner (Annis Montague) from a U.S. upland,
backwoods town, where they intend recruiting
during the summer months. They are at present
connected with the Thomas Opera Company, sup-
ported by wealthy amateurs. The amount which
these stage-struck persons are willing to lose is
nearly exhausted, and as soon as the company is
broken up, and their engagement therefore dis-
solved, Mr. and Mrs. T. have resolved to visit
Australia again. Annis, the plump, is in good
voice, and Charles assarts that his vocal apparatus
was never in better condition than at present.
***
At the new circus in Paris the swimmiog-
bath is lit with electricity from below, so that the
audience who are in darxness see the aquatic feats
of the symmetrical sisters Johnson, as in a trans-
parency.
The wreck of the Cahors on the Queensland
coast almost a year ago has been well nigh for-
gotten, but ia recalling the subjeot it is hardly
needful to commence by mentioning that a sub-
scription was raised. Nobody was drowned on the
occasion in question, but money was wanted to
present a testimonial to the crew and oiflcers of
the rescuing steamer, and as this was a mere luxury
it is quite unnecessary to say that cheques came in
freely. They always do on such occasions. The
average Anglo-Saxon citizen cannot live without
getting up subscriptions for some purpose or
other, but through a kink in his intellect his
liberality is at its brightest when organising a com*
plimentaiy dinner to a dog whose hind leg has
been cut off by a circular saw, and he descends to
coppers in the ease of a widow with five small
children who wants a leg of mutton for the family
dinner. Hon. Pat. Perkins was one of the ship-
wrecked company, and he took the lead in “raising
the dust.” Having been wreoked so often
before, he knew, of course, exactly what
to do. A good share went to the captain
of the Burwah, who looked on from his
vessel’s deck three miles away, while his men
did the dangerous work of taking off the Cahors’
passengers, and then the liberality stopped. It
was resolved that the rescuing crew did not
deserve to share the spoil, as they bungled and
delayed a good deal over their work, and it has
been finally decided to get rid of the balance by
dividing it among those who were savel from a
watery grave. This idea possesses all the charm
of novelty. It marks a new departure when the
reward goes to the man who is dragged out of the
water, not to the man who did the dragging.
Perkins, it is proposed, shall have a gold
medal, because he got up the subscription;
an individual named Butters has been awarded
another because he helped Perkins to make a fuss
about the affair in the papers; and a third falls to
the share of a steerage hero for his agility in get-
ting into the rescuing boat. Smaller rewards, we
suppose, will be given to the man who lay down
and howled in the lee-scuppers, and the gentleman
who tried to start a hymn to keep up the spirits of
the passengers. Any surplus which remains after
all these items are settled is to go to the Ly-ee-
Moon fund, which, it is devoutly to be hopsd, will
not be administered on similar principles, else
Captain Webber will get the lot.
Hint for Mr. Dampier Make one of the
“ Natural Life ” convicts say that he does not care
to be hanged so early in the morning, as he feel®
the cold too much. Then the Rev. Meekin can
turn round and say, “ It will be hot enough for
you presently, my man.” It is an old joke, but
would take well, and, ia the words of Alfred,
“give pleasure to all.”
Wherever you go always ask and obtain the
celebrated Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Marie Brizard I
For Fat Persons.—Dr. F. C. Russell’s
Eaglish Care for Corpulency, Perfect y harmless
and healthful. Reduces from 5 to 7 pounds weekly.
In eises (double strength) at reduced prices.
Elliott Bros., and ail chemists.
The Turks and Greeks who wished to fight,
And nearly came to blows,
Have dropped their guns, and wired here
To Summerfield for clothes.*
Marie Brizard I
Wolfe’s Schnapps is imitated. May this
caution be serviceable Avoid all imitation®.
Just as great Gladstone nobly strives
To meet old Ireland’s needs,
So Summerfleld to meet our wants
Displays his winter tweeds.*
His Story.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“My name ?” (He was wizened and wrinkled and
grey,
And poverty-painted and old;
His dirt-armoured head on his blanket he lay,
And this is the tale that he told) i—
“ Well, boss,” (and he straightened his back bent
with years,
And his tangled hair waved in the breeze,
The wind whistled in through the caves of his ears
And the splits of his pants at the knees.
His “bluey” was coiled like a boarding-house
duff,
And his hilly-can stood at its side;
His jumper, worn through—the original stuff
Was cobbled with moleskin and hide.)
“ My name ” (and he drew forth a whip from the
swag,
And shook out the knots from the strands
That yet were unplaced) " Is Tommy the Lag
Then carefully spat on his hands.
The yarn seemed to hang, so I threw him a pltig,
And his eye brightened up in a trice;
Beatitude played round the sundowner’s mug,
And his Jaws went to work like a vyce.
Tobacco-juice trickled in drops from his chin
And fell on the hair of his breast,
It seemed to transport him from damper and sin
To a land of ineffable rest.
I thought it quite likely he'd chew for a week,
As he plainly took time by the year;
When, listlessly hooking the plug from his cheek
And inserting the same in his ear,
He motioned me near, with a jerk of his head*
To a seat at the foot of the tree—
A stringy-hark, all but a branch or two dead—
It was just suoh a ruin as he.
I waited, expecting to hear from the “ vag.”
Some old tale of our criminal scum;
But he just grunted out: “Yes, I’m Tommy the
Lag—
Can you lend me a ‘ boh ’ for a rum ?”
J.P.B
The Girl.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We wander on from day to day,
Where rugged bills are grim and grey—
No matter where our footsteps stray
A thousand rocks impede;
Aye, followed by relentless Fate,
Whose myrmidons inveterate.
With mandates at each turn await;
As ruled the ancient Mede. ,
No matter when or where we g&ie
With tired eyes, no cheering rays
Shine through the overhanging hasie
That all the scene enfolds;
The night comes od, the day is done;
The moments stalk past one by one,
We wonder if, beneath the sun,
The world one pleasure holds.
But when, as if some magic hand
The truant airs of summer fanned,
Bright sunshine breaks upon a land
Where br'boks of crystal purl;
And, lingering where their waters flow 1 ;
A smiling wreath of flowers blow
That seems to but, you then may know
We’ve dropped acrosi the girl.
J.P.B.


Parkes and the Yellow Dog.
H.S.W. ESQ.: “NO, HABRY, IT’S NO USB, I WON’T GIVE YOU ANOTHER BILLET TILL YOU GET RID OF THAT YELLOW CUR. HE WORRIED TOO MANY JUMBUCKS LIST TIME YOU WERE SHEPHERDING HERE.”
OLD HARRY: “ WELL, SIR, IT AIN’T MY FAULT, I CAN’T GET RID OF THE BRUTE. I’VE KICKED EIM, AND PELTED HIM WITH HOME RULE, BUT HE WILL KEEP ON A-FOLLERIN’ ME.”


Adelaide, the City of snuffle
The city of Adelaide is sufferirg from a rush of
morals to the head. The purified saints down
there have come to the conclusion that the poverty
and depression from which Sruth Australia suffers
have arisen through the dissipation of unregener-
ate clerks, and have been sent as a special judg-
ment for the sirs of bark-arittccrate and over-
blown Civil servants. Good men have attempted
a reformation by peaceful means, hut all
in vain. A Vigilance Society has been formed,
and its ranks have been mainly recruited
from among the prigs, the cads, the busybodies,
the snufflirg bypccrites, the wall-eyed Pharisees,
and the bilious, greasy saints of the community.
It is backed up by the various religious organisa-
tiOES which recruit the gaols and practically rule
the ciiy and the colony, and with their aid the
members have exacted a pledge from ihe majority
of employers to dismiss any servant whom the
VigilaLts may report to have been seen entering a
public-house or a gambling-hell, or ctherwise
doing what the saints think ireorsistent with
Christian conduct. No Vigilant need be long out
out of a billet, for he has only to hunt up the
man whose place he thinks would suit him,
get him reported, and insert himself in his
stead. Adelaide is suffering from a reign of
terror, ard hardly any clerks or warehousemen
now venture to tppear in the streets during the
evenings. Few men dare effend the meanest
skunk (we mean saint) wbo grerses the wheels of
this machine of monstrous tyranny, and the open
blackguards of the Vigilance Society live in a rosy
dream of free drutks, free lurches, and black-
mail, while ihe paltry coward pays c ff old scores,
which he dare not openly wipe out, by reportirg
the man who pulled his prying nrse In the long-
past days of cbildbocd. It is unsafe now to go
into a hotel for tinner, as the Vigilante at once
conclude the visitor is tent on surreptitious
whiskies, and it is still more dangerous to greet a
lady in the street, for the saints do not know a
lady when they see her and at oree set down the
case as one of wickedress and “mashirg.” For-
tunately, however, the members do not find their
life one of unalloyed bliss. Now and then they
make the mistake of tackling someone whore
position makes him indeperdent of their criti-
cism, and in such a ease the Vigilant discovers
that his lot ie a sorrowful one at the best.
Several have already teen kicked down-
stairs, or at least they have been kicked
while standing at the head of a staircase, and
afterwards fell down of their own accord, which
amounts to very much the same thing both to the
kicker ana ihe kickee. Others have been dropped
from windows or other high places; and a few,
while in pursuit of their avocations, have been
spanked with the cane of the urgodly, rr knocked
down among congenial garbage in the gutter,
and have afterwards taken their bruised and
miserable way homeward, singing drearily "Thy
rod and Tby staff they comfort me.” But in spite
of ihese acts of discourtesy, the sreiety assidu-
ously pokes its brass-tipped Dose into the haunts
of dissipstion, and SDiffs round after dark in the
entrance-hall of the gambling den, or the back
yard of the hotel, trying to scent out the decaying
carcase of moral depravity. Its ranks are filled
with the brothers and cousins and other near rela-
tives of the eclipsed angels who are now breaking
stores at Dry Creek Gaol, and a good lot of the
members labour incessantly in embezzling their
employers’ cafh by day and lying away other
men’s characters by night after a hBrd day’s fraud
is completed. No remedy has yet been discovered
for this atrocious tyranny, and unless the citizens
of .Adelaide organise a band of Mchawks to wallop
the Vigilance Society into pulp, it is hardly likely
a cure will spec dily be found.
Disloyal Sydney.
“Yobk Herald,” writirg in the B.M. Hebald,
complains bitterly ef the want of external loyalty
in Sydney. Among his grievances, he notes that
only one Cabinet Minister attended the review on
the Queen’s birthday, that the ltvde was a very
thin muster, that the members of the Government
did rot give dinners to celebrate the occasion,
that the city was not illuminated—“not even a
Brunswick Star” being visible—that the people
leave the theaties while the Natioi al Anthem is
being played, and that men do iot deff their hats
on band-days in the gardens. “I should like,” he
says, "to see such a thing cccur in Berlin or
Vienna; there all hats go <ff as if by an electric
shcck, and the menl.who refuse wculd in a few
seconds be interviewed by the secret police, who
are always present on such occasions.” The
author of this effensive piece of fluDkeyism is
seemingly desirous to see seme such systemintro-
duced iito N.S.W,, and does net comprehend that
he is two centuries behind the age. Possibly he
thinks himself so small and contemptible an
animal that he should grovel before a fellow-
mortal just because the latter wears “a Bruns-
wick Star,” and if so let him grovel, by ell means,
but he will do little geed by asking the people of
Australia to join him. Tbere are men who find
their true level in the sewers and in the mud,
and it is waste trouble to attempt to lift
them cut. But it is worth while for bare-headed
loyalists to remember that theroyalty of Britain is
only a golden calf which the people have setup,
and which they are now thinking of pulling down
again. The secret police of Berlin and Vienna
would be more profitably employed runnirg in
German swindlers and Austrian “drunks” than
huntirg up men who refuse to take off their hats
to a brass band and a national anthem, and the
Ministerial dinners, of which “York Herald”
speaks, would be given to the starving, homeless
poor rather than to rich celebrities, if loyalty
were a sentiment belonging to living humanity
instead of a mere specimen of brutal selfishness
and toadyism. The illuminations, the feasts, the
reviews, and the whole ceremonial of the Queen’s
Birthday in England mean additional taxation and
hurger and misery to the lower classes, and the
less we have of such loyalty in Australia the
better. “ York Herald” is a poor miserable crea-
ture, as David Buchanan would say; but what a
mean institution must be the newspaper which
allows him to waste its space 1
Let us Grovel !
THE “PEERESS” AND THE YDNEY PAPER.
The Town and Country Journal,, of Sydney,
is the proud possessor of “ A Peeress ’’ who
writes society news from London, and th's lady s
latest epistle is devoted to the Prince of Wales,
the elderly German boy who has waited so long
and ratiently for the reversion of the T mperal
bluchers. Tt e first impression left by a p rusal of
this article is that the peeress’s name is Jtffe ies.
She takes a back-stairs view of her royal subject,
atd deals chi< fly with the Prince’s debts, his
favourites, hi- presents of diamond latchkeys, and
other topics en wb'ch even anonymous peeres ee
do not generally dilate, and regarding which ever
an ordinary duke would, at any rate publicly, s ffe t
ignorance. “If the Prince is not young,” she
says, “has he not all the follies of youth?” And
then she quotes as follows:
“ There’s no bottem, rone,
In my vo’uptucusness; ycur wives, ycur
daughters,
Your matrons, and your ir aids cou'd not fill up
The cistern of my lust.”
The hind of peeress who drags in lines like these to
ornament her letter, we are ineiim d to think was
made for the express purposeot filling up a c stern
with a good deal of water on top of her— only
we would be sorry for the cistern. When Bob
Ingersoil said “an honest god’s the noblest work
of man,” he doubtless had this lady in view
and wanted particular’y to build up a deity
who would not be in any way responsible for
her existence. Those who would bow to a female
wbo thus knocks the bottom out ol Shakespeare
and drags the bard down to grovel at the feet of
Wales, would stoop to kiss the hand that washes
royal shirts, and wr uld try to preserve for a life-
time the mark of a kick received from the toot of
a Prince’s flunkey. But the peeress goes on from
bad to worse, and from worse to very worst. She
THE JEREMIAH OF THE N.S.W. UPPER HOUSE.
“The Hon. Mr. Piddington moved that the Cremation Bill be read that day six
months. Cremation was proposed now —by-and-bye cannibalism would be suggested.”
Daily Paper.
proceeds to relate tales of men who “ have seen
the Prince drive up alone in a hansom, to an im-
proper door, in an improper square, at an im-
proper hour; and whose tailor has stumbled at
dead of night upon H.K.H. lurking upon the
sartorial stairs—a pretty wife being, of course,
eD sconced somewhere in the plebian bower.” There
is something rather “ plebian,” by-the-bye, abcut
the peeress s spelling—but perhaps she is an im-
ported article from A ustralia. But we decline to be-
lieve thateven tbeaveraire British nobleman would
relate these things to a lady, though the British
costermonger might. Yet the peeress herselt teels
it necessary to draw the line somewhere. She in-
forms us that the prince was in the habit of giving
to his favorite ladies presents of diamond latch-
keys, and that the ladies in question wore these
gifts openly, though all knew them to be the
symbol of royal favour ; but she discreetly draws
the horse-cloth of silence over the rest of the
story, and merely wonders in conclusion that, “in
a luxurious age, virginal marriage on both sides is
not oitener tried for the mere sake of its luxury ”
Comment must stop here. The only wonder which
is likely to consume her readers is that a peeress
who has dived so deep into the recesses of human
depravity, and who returns from a shetl of
familiar wickedness to d:sh up a stock of as-
sorted stories, raked in from the borderland of
obscenity, in the columns of the Town and
Country, has not long since been kicked into
some region darker and deeper than the Yale of
Siddim. And yet this mass of unfathomable mush
and grovel is a Sydney journal’s idea of “ society
news.” The article which contains these items
ends with an essay on loyalty, and eulogises the
prince because he is “a typical Englishman,”
and no worse than many others. The
spectacle of such a prince, propped up by
such a peeress and in such a paper, is edifv-
ing. An Indian legend tells how the earth is sup-
ported by a tortoise, and the tortoise by a serpent,
while the serpent himself is supposed to dance
on his tail in thin ethereal vapour, but even the
position of the globe, precarious as it must be ac-
th-'s theory, is enviable compared with
rwL' ,f ‘ 5« | fs,” pillared by the Town and
country peeress.” And in one respect the
parallel is remarkably oloss, for both the barren
eartn and the barren Prince are supported by
r « ptl i rs ’ an<l in ea °h case the reputes seem to
afford a very ur csrtain pedestal.
THIS WICKED WORLD.
An Austra’ian (not a Sydney) lawyer has
sbot bimeef because he was accused of em-
brzz’emeDt. What an extraordinary man 1....
Tbe Queen bas so far bowed to press criti-
cism as to omit from the Court Circular all
mention of Battenberg’s daily doings Th© Ot-
*oman Government has discovered that the
“b?ll-topper” is undermining tbe foundations of
tfe empire, and bas ordered its discontinuance.
Brahma, tbe Hindoo God, is credited with these
words "I am the same to all mankind. They
who honestly worship other Gods, involuntarily wor-
ship me. lam he that partaketh of all worship, I
am the reward of worship.” This is exactly the
sort of Deity we have been seeking for a number
of years. The other ones all say we must worship
them or he cremated alive Mr. Froude con-
gratulates Australians on their Excellent English,
and wonders where they picked it up. Society
impudently observes that the gaol-schoolmasters
must be excellent tutors The eccentric Duke
of Brurswiek helped Louis Napoleon 111. to
escape from Ham prison, the Emperor writing in
marking: ink on a white sUk handkerchief an un-
dertaking to help the duke back into the pos-
session of his duchy. On the 22nd July, 1870, he
was for the last time reminded of the promises
sworn to and written on the handkerchief. He
answered thus :— 1 “ I have received your letter, and
find it impossible to comply with your demands.
I beg you to believe in my sentiments of
sincere amity.— Napoleon.” Six weeks later the
Emperor was a prisoner of the Germans
Gladstone is never allowed to read the criticisms
of his policy in the newspapers. So the admoni-
tory leaders of the Argus and Duncan Gillies’
speeches miss their mark after a 11.... Tradesmen in
Madagascar, who give short weight, are sent to
prison for a year. In Sydney, they rent houses at
Manly for the summer A French joke. Bur-
lesque actress: “ Have you any black silk tights ?”
“No, madam; but we have other colours.” 8.A.:
“I must have black. My husband died recently,
and I am wearing mourning.”....Marriage is a
confidence game, in which a clergyman plays the
part of “spieler.” The Walkers are numerous
in Australia. From the London Standard:—
“ Walker.—lf some member of the Walker family
bearing the following coat-of arms—field argent,
three annulets between nine cinquefoils sable-
will be kind enough to correspond with the sub-
scriber he will esteem it a great favour. The only
object is to trace the connecting link with an an-
cestress, who resided in Mansfield, Nottingham
county, nearly 200 years ago. Will someone please
answer this? Address F. Binford, P.O. Box 82,
Owensboro’, Kentucky, IT.S.A.”—On Primrose
Day the Conservative News Agency sent out to its
subscribers an illustration of "the great Earl
when an infant.” The future Beaconsfleld
is counting his fingers, and is seated on the
naked knee of an angel with towzled hair...-
The London Shelley Society are doing some
queer things under the gu'se of art. They
have produced the poet's loathsome play, ‘Th
Cenci,” before a crowd of gloating men an
women Streuss, of waltz celebri'y, has re-
nounced Roman Catholicism for Protestanism
The muoh-ph:to'd H. Maude Bransoombe (she is
a diminutive and insignificant person, after all)
has just married a fiddler A London paper
speaks of “ Her Grac'ous Majesty Victoria, Queen
of Great Britain, and up to now, of Ireland.”....
The Town and Gumtree Jernil says “a sure cure
for a cold in the heal is to stuff the nostrils with
becs-wax and starve the cold out.” Another sure
cure is to cut off the head and throw it away. The
latter remedy is just as certain, and much
pleasanter —The Queen now sits on a low chair in
receiving presentees. The monarch's alleged
position demands a more complete obeisance, and
one has to grovel properly—“to curtsey until one
actually squats on the ground.” "I lost my
daughter when she was only 16.” “What carrie
her off?” “The man who married her!”....
The Duke of Hamilton's only daughter will in-
herit £l4O fOO a year Prosper Merrimeehas been
so kind as to say of Gladstone, after three days’
personal acquaintance: “ He is made up of the
child, the man of the world, and the madman.”....
Myers, the Yankee runner, who has just beaten
George, the English champion, is not a teetotaller,
and when in England he considered that "fair,
honest ale” did him good If you find your
house afire, dip a handkerchief in water and tie it
over your mouth and nostrils. You can then
breathe freely, even in dense smoke When
Madame Albani sang " Home, sweet Home,” at the
Indo-Colonial opening, the Queen, forgetful of
time and place, sat with her head moving up and
down to the rhythm, while her lips moved as if
she were humming the melody. At the conclusion
of the song, she hastily rubbed her overflowing
eyes, and then began beating her hands together
in applause Why make such a fuss about King
Louis of Bavaria being bankrupt? exclaims an
English w iter. Are not nearly all the Royals of
Europe paupers, living on what they manage
to get out of the people.... Herr Most, the
notorious anarchist, abo it whom we have heard
so much by cable, has an eagle-like face
and is known as “ the man with the bird's head.”
lt is now proposed to cremate by electricity:
the body shrouded in asbestos sheets (and appa-
rently occupying the oosition of the filament in
an incandescent lamp) would be laid on fire-bricks,
the head and feet resting on copper plates at-
tached to the leads from huge dynamos. Upon
the current being passed through, it would be in-
stantly carbonised— The Bishop of Zululandis
puzzled to know what to do with those of his con-
verts who are living in polygamy. Bishop Colenso
refused to strictly apply to them the Christian
monogamic law, and the solution proposed by the
converted savage, who was willing to eat all his
wives but one, is inadmissible. There is one way
out of the d^eulty—the Church might leave off
converting polygamists At Bridport, Eng.,
the mother of an intending bride rushed into the
church, abused the bridegroom, and drove her
daughter from the building The Glasnevin
(Dublin) Cemetery Committee have allowed a
memorial-stone to be erected, bearing the inscrip-
tion, “ Died for Ireland,” in remembrance of
O’Donnell, who was hanged for killing In-
former Carey —The eldest son of the Duke
of Edinburgh is being educated with a view
to becoming an officer in the German army
The " Sussex giant,,” who weighed just about
what Tom Jennings, of Tasmania, weighs (38 stone
or so) has died of heart-disease, aged 36 Henry
George has now become his own publisher....
Patti and Nicolini were married at the French
Consulate, London, June 7th—Mr. Tuke, a well-
known philanthropist, has distributed 1500 tons of
seed among the famishing peasantry of the West
Coast of Ireland The winning average of the
greatest English jockey has come down this sea-
son. Up to the leaving of the mail, Archer had
won 27 races out of 108 mounts; C. Wood 25
out of 86; and G. Barrett 24 out of 128 The
thirsty Anarchists who raided a Chicago chemist’s
and drank wine of colcbicum in mistake for
sherry, died Says United Ireland:— “ The
landlords have been offered peace, comfort,
dignity, and a good round revenue. They
have, with incurable malignancy, repulsed the
offer. It will never be made again.” Prince
Victor Christian is being tried as wicket-keeper
for Oxford University eleven. If England wants
to get rid of the house of Hanover she will allow
the Royal family to keep wickets while Spofforth
bowls A deputation recently waited on a Welsh
Board of Guardians to represent the cruelty
shown to donkeys. The spokesman said they had
come to plead the cause of their “ fellow-crea-
tures—the asses outside the board-room.” A
disappointed maiden thus defines the human
race: “ Man, a conglomerate mass of hair, tobacco-
smoke, confusion, conceit, and boots. Woman,
the waiter, perforce on the aforesaid animal.”
A cheerful feature of the Edinburgh Exhibition
(opened the other day by Prince Albert Victor) is
a choice collection of assorted tombstones, which
has been accorded a position of suitable promin-
ence in the grounds The lately-deceased Lord
Redesdale was very like a butler. (By the way,
Lord Beaeonsfteld says somewhere that the House
of Peers resembles a gathering of butlers.) On
one occasion his lordship went personally to pay
his wine merchant’s bill. When it had been re-
ceipted, and he was about to leave, the clerk
handed him a £lO note. His lordship did not
understand this, and asked what the money was
for. “ Oh, that is what we always allow the
butler,” was the reply —The Queen is having
another dive at literary work. This time it is by
compiling a volume of the public speeches of the
late Duke of Albany. The work is worthy of the
worker A “gentleman of position” in London
has been committed for trial on a charge of crimi-
nally assaulting more than 20 young girls during
the last few months A London physician re-
ceived a fee of £5OOO for a visit paid to the wife of
an English peer then at Cannes. The lady re-
covered... Professor Bonelii, music teacher, of
’Frisco, severs the accessory tendons of the fourth
finger of any of his pupils who will submit to the
operation. This operation is said to give increased
strength and pliancy to the finger, and, besides
being painless, leaves no mark or scar The Czar
is going to bant... .A correspondent of Bociety
(London) suggests that foreigners arriving in
England should be taxed, "as is done in America
and Australia.” Our contemporary is evidently
edited by a Chinaman It is hard to believe that
there is a merciful Providence, after reading
about a recent occurrence at the Old Bailey, Lon-
don. It appears that the framework of the sun-
light in one of the legal courts fell, with a erasbj
upon the very benches usually occupied by cour-
se!. A paper naively states that “fatal conse-
quences must have resulted if the business had
been proceeding.” Yes, this is the distressing
part of the story. The court had risen.


THE RIGHT HON. W. B.
DALLEY.
APPOINTMENT AS PRIVY
COUNCILLOR.
(REUTER'S MESSAGE.')
London. Tuesday.—The Hon W
B. Dailey, of New South Wales, lias
been appointed a member of the Privy
Council in recognition of hi?- distin-
guished services.
She thought at first of sending
him a pair of slippers embroidered
by her own fair hands, or a pin-
Cdihion. but finally decided as
abov e.
This is Hor Majesty in the act of wondering what in
the world she can do for that dear old Plain Bill Dailey.
“ Now, look here, young man, if you have
brought me another recipe for the cure of
gout, you may just skip ”
Mr. Dailey •. “ Have you a costume for a privy councillor !”
Costumier (to gain time) “ Mit or initout de sh’pangles 1 11
His First “Advice” to Her Majesty.
c< Now, ma'am, I’d advise you first to kill Henniker Heaton ,
2nd, Don t laugh at any of Neild’s puns; and 3rd, Read Thu
Bulletin.
NO LONGER PLAIN BILL
-tfLUd
fi-'j (hu JL
(? (Ur fcjYu
0 '
Something like a “ bauble
His distinguished services ’’
Suggested Coat of Arms.
No Longer Plain Bill.


The Judas of Radicalism.
"SIR GRAHAM” FISTS FOUR OUT OF THE THIRTY PIECES OF SILVER.


Woman Ilems
The average servant-girl has an incurable
“ down on her ’uppers.”
Woman is not much of a philosopher, but
she is proverbially a clothes observer.
Men often boast that they are self-made ;
women never do. Modesty and false teeth and
hair often go together.
An English paper says the number of the
fhah’s wives has been “greatly exaggerated.”
Shah I That’s what all bigamists say.
“ Never marry a woman unless she is so rioh
that you would marry her if she were ugly, and so
handsome that you would marry her if she were
poor.”
Apropos of President Cleveland’s marriage
to Miss Folsom, a Yankee paper suggests thatthe
Senate should call for the documents leading up
to the lady’s appointment.
Federation is goiDg mad. Even the tailors
are at it, and federal trousers and shirts are adver-
tised. Probably the divided skirt will next appear
under the new style of the “federated petticoat.
The most comprehensive apology extant
is frcm the Adelaide Begjster : “I John
M'laurin do hereby apologise for anything that 1
said conceinirg Miss Monk, as it was without
foundation.”
A man in Auckland, N.Z., had a wife who
ran away from him with another man. Be gave
chase, and came up with ihe covple in time to
shoot at them. He shot his wife, woundirg her
seriously, but missed the mao. For this he may be
hanged ere of these fine mornings. His name is
Luny, and it fits him.
Bride: “ I must have your advice, doctor;
my husband gets the nightmare every night, and
frighters me to death.” Doctor: “You have gone
into housekeeping, I presume.” Bride: “Yes, we
were married last week.” Doctor: “And you
attend to the housekeeping duties yourself ? Well,
hire someone else to do the cooking.”
The Kyneton Guardian reports a wed-
ding, where out of six groomsmen not one
would venture to respond to the toast of “The
Bridesmaids.” A Miss Hookey came to the rescue
and delivered the necessary speech. It was a pity
Neild was not there to fill the hiatus with some
nine-hour observations about ad valorem duties.
A lady bookmaker, straDgely designated
“Copper Top,” plies her vocation at Silverton,
N.8.W., and is believed to make a good income by
means of the pencil. Her success shows that her
“top” is neither copper nerwood, aid by her guile-
less smile and seductive manner she generally
Eucceedsin doing a large trade at tolerably short
odds. And yet there are people even now who
tay that woman is a downtrodden creature.
A curious charge was brought at Hay
(N.S.W.)ihe other day sgairst a Chinamsn. He
was accused of concealing his wife in a brewery
with what purpose was not stated. The commen-
sense of the magistrates revolted sgainst this
ridiculous charge. If he had concealed himself in
the brewery they would have understood it. But
to conceal his wife 1 Not even a Chinaman would
te fcolißb enough to do that-unless he had a
heathenish desire to flavour the beer with her.
He was acquitted.
The Dames of certain of the British Prim-
rose Habitations have bound themselves by reso-
lution to eichew all foreign dress fabrics and con-
fine themse Ives entirely to English materials. Thus
it is a fair contest now between politics and
fashion—Beaconsfleld and Worth. We are ready
to bet our only ticket for the next service of song
that Conservative predilections won’t influence
worth Brickhiil’s Baby when a spring bonnet has
to be procured for one of the aristocratic dames.
A woman’s heart may incline to primrose politics,
but her whole soul is centred round a daisy of a
bonnet.
The custom of vitiiol-throwing still remains
fashionable in France. Madame Carpentier, we
read, flung half a pint of the acid in the face of
an obnoxious concierge. He lest an eye and a
large portkn of his nose, and his mouth will re-
main a ghastly gash for the remainder of his days.
The lady get five years’ imprisonment. They have
queer notions of justice, the se Gallic cousins of
ours. Never mind, the concierge has one eye left
wherewith to look upon la Joelle Carpentier roast-
ing before a slow fire in the Pit of Tophet If he
is permitted to baßte her with kerosene they will
at last be quits.
From the Avenel correspondent ot tne
Seymour (Vic.) Express “Cupid has been busy
at his miEchievous tricks in and around Avenel
lately, and no less than four happy couples are ex-
pected to sacrifice themselves on the altar of
Hymen before the merry month of June has been
lost in the prismatic hues of memory.” What is
your opinion of that now ? Is it not neat, and
elegant, and poetic? Isn’t there a sort of classic
ring about it suggesting white-robed processions
and flowers and flutes and the rest of the acces-
sories to ancient hymeneal high jinks ? And yet
the writer probably earns his living by scooting
round for kangaroo-scalps.
The latest from Ireland :—A lady, about to
dismiss her hack-car, went through the usual pan-
tomime necessary to find her pocket, it being in
the now fashionable part of her frock. As all
nautical men know, “a Btern chase is a long
chase,” and the jarvey’s patience became ex-
hausted. “ Begorra,” he said, “when your Lady-
ship’s honour has done scratching yourself, maybe
you will pay me me fare.” The foregoing story is
from that organ of the British aristocracy, Yanity
Fair, and so is this:— A well-known member of
society, who is noted for his deafness, was riding
in the Park the other <J ay on an old and favourite
mare. He was accoßted by a friend, who at first
failed to make him hear, liaising his voice, the
friend said, “Howls your wife?” “Allright,”
was the reply; “ feel her legs, they are as fresh as
the day I got her.”
Amid the hurry and rush on the deck of
the sinking steamer Oregon, at least one brave and
noble woman came to the front. The vessel was
settling down, the men were making for the boats
in a haste that threatened to change to panic, and
the cry of “women first I” which was raised by
the officers failed to shame them into anything
like chivalry. But the whole scene was changed
in a moment when one lady stepped out from the
crowd and said she was "in no hurry,” We can
only hope George Darrell will never, never come
across that woman. All honour to her, but we
don’t want to see her under the influence of
George’s genius transformed into the heroine of
an Australian bush-drama with a forger for a hus-
band, and then meet her again in the second act
on the deck of a burning steamer, and hear her
say she is “in no hurry” just as the treacherous
villain of the drama comes up to chuck her over-
board. George, we appeal to you as a man and a
brother to let that woman alone.
Our dear old friend and brother, J. A.
Dowie, has tsken up a new line. His faith-healing
business dropped away to nothing of late. Either
the faith or the healing wasn’t quite up to the
mark—perhaps both. Anyway, J. A. D. wanted a
new outlet lor his zeal, a lresh field for his labour.
He found it in the pub. Mrs. Dowie is toiling in
the same vineyard. She gees round to bars
Saturday nights, armed with the breastplate of
righteousness and a few tracts, and exhorts lost
ones to give up “hot scotches” and seek
only the water of life. When she arrives
at “thirdly and lastly” the landlord usually
slings her out. Boniface complains that Mrs. D.
never orders anything for herself. Put the wily
John Alexander intends to meet this difficulty in
a practical Christian way. He has warned mine
hosts that, in the future, his wife will call for such
refreshments as she may desire. She will drink
lemonade till she explodes if the Lord's work re-
quires such a gaseous self-sacrifioe. And observe
his awful threat: “In that case she and such
Christian men as may accompany her will make a
much longer stay than the brief visits they now
pay.” This is a black outlook for the trade. Two
hours of Mrs. Dowie and her Kerristian friends
means premature decay, insanity, and death fcr
any landlord who isn’t stone deaf.
Sir Stafford Northoote—now Lord Iddes-
leigh—was always a respectable old simpleton,
and of late he has degenerated into a driveller.
We read that, in an after-dinner speech, this super-
annuated Tory said “he could confirm, with the
fullest force, the words of Mr. Isaac Disraeli,
when ne declared that no one who was a husband
and father ought to bean author.” Bosh I Nobody
can paint such charming word-pictures of conjugal
happiness as the wretch who paints his missus
ADMIRATION, IE NOT ENVY.
Mrs. O’MULLIGAN (to Mrs. Muldowney): “ARRAH, NOW, HE’S A GREAT SHTATESMAN.
JUST LUK AT HIM I HE SHPOKE FOR NOINE HOURS !”
with the Are-irons. Nobody can write a love-story
until milliners’ bills and babies have knocked all
the romance out of him, or faithfully depict a
father’s love, until he has turned his only son out
of doors. Man or woman is only capable of hand-
ling skilfully the sweet subjects of love and wed-
dings when Buch things have become mere reminis-
cences to him or her. Young bachelors and
spinsters throw off hysterical gush when they get
on to the love racket, and are too much up in the
clouds to discuss everyday life and commonplace
realities in a practical way. It was no giggling
virgin who created Hetty Sorrell. Thackeray and
Dickens were middle-aged fathers before they
could analyse the boyish passions of Pendennis
and David Copperfleld. The most delicate shades
of human nature are only visible to a cynical eye,
and your true cynic is the much-married man or
the matured wife. We have spoken.
Romeike, that London genius who clears
about £IO,OCO a year by supplying statesmen and
others with newspaper-cuttings, has just turned
his attention to a new line of business. A few
weeks ago he was pestering half the professional
men of London by asking them to explain why it
was they were failures. Now he proposes to open
up a lucrative occuf>atioii for the aristocratic un-
employed by establishing an Escort Supply
Agency. His plan is to keep cavaliers “on tap,’
so to speak, for use, as required. Ladies who re-
quired an escort,could then go to this establishment
and choose a cavalier, just as they would go to
iivery-'tables to hire a horse. Prices according
to appearances and ancestry. Younger sons of
peers would not be allowed to go out at less than
£5 per diem, or £1 an hour. Next quality, “ super-
fines,” would be let for £2105., or 10s.; high toned
escorts, for £1 a day, or 2s. 6d. per hour, and ordi-
nary escorts for Is. 6d. an hour, with the usual large
trade discount on wholesale transactions. Decora-
tions in accordance with a fixed tariff. Escorts to
he dressed by the heat West-end tailors. All fares
and tickets to be at the coßt of the hirers. This
opens up an immense field of usefulness; and
what pleases us most is that it offers a premium
to manly beauty, which now will have a tangible
monetary reward. If editors are unappreciative,
the beauteous writer will easily And more re-
munerative employment. With becoming modesty
we thank heaven that we are now independent of
the Archimedean lever of the universe.
The “ Woman’s Rights” champions in Vic-
toria are preaching certain little doctrines which
ought to "go” uncommonly well among younger
members of both sexes. A lady, for instance,
spoke of the desirability of Edwin and Angelina
having their swim together in a quiet sort of way.
We fancy that aquatic gambols of this description
are a long-felt want. In our young days we wit-
nessed a swimming entertainment at Brill’s Baths,
Brighton (Eng.) One of the performers was a
young lady, fair to look upon and somewhat scan-
tily clad. She swam all round the hath (almost
within arm’s reach of the audience) with cme leg
out of the water, and we can honestly declare that
the pleasing feat will ever remain one of our most
dearly-cherished remembrances. In those primi-
tive times the daring thought of accompanying
that young lady on her journey was quite too ad-
vanced to be entertained. But now the subject
has been fairly broached we can find courage to
say that “swims together” would be very nice.
If Angelina went through the manoeuvre just re-
ferred to, Edwin’s matutinal plunge would possess
hitherto undreamt of attractions for him. We can
answer for Edwin, and as the ladies desire the
suffrage as a means of bringing about such charm-
ing social innovations, we would like to give ’em
ten votes apiece. What candidate on the hustings
could answer “no” when a brown-eyed, slender-
waistea electress enquired if he was “ in favour of
swims together ?” Ne’er a one. And, by the way,
we also call to mind—this also occurred in our
youth—the case of a young woman who. did go in
for one of these mixed swims, in the Thames. Itr
was touched upon in a comic song of the period—
“ Mary Dixon she bathed with 300 men. I ’*"'" ”
LOh, good gracious !” “
Poor Mary was “ run in” over the job. She was in
front of the age. The world was not ready for
her. In Australia, at the present moment, Miss
Dixon would be revered as an enlightened, prac-
tical advocate of Woman’s Rights. -
The custom of renting houses in flats is
spreading widely in England, and an enterprising
publisher, who wishes to he well ahead with the
Christmas trade, has prepared a card to meet the
times with the inscription, “ God bless our Flat.”
Rather a good speoimen of narrow-minded
Christianity. The front parlour below may depart
into outer darkness, and the third floor may be
consigned to Sheol, so long as the second storey
can manage to appropriate any Divine blessing
that may be going.
A tender-hearted lawyer is generally re-
garded as a novelty, and when such an individual
turns up he deserves a gratis advertisement.
Blanche Coulson, a young lady whose morals were
too large for her, was indicted in London in 1883
for stealing a ring from a Hindoo, and her charms
so worked upon the bar that they subscribed half-
a-crown each for her defence. Eventually she
was acquitted, and Mr. Woodgate, the tender-
hearted lawyer already mentioned, having heard
that she desired to reform and return home, gave
her his address, with an intimation that on calling
she would receive the money for her travelling
expenses. He did not see her afterwards, but the
sum was paid on his account, and there the matter
was supposed to end. But meanwhile the be-
wigged monster who sat on the Bench had heard
of the transaction and considered it necessary to
interfere. The accusation he made was not very
clear, but in an indignant letter on the subject he
charged the lawyer with immoral beaevolenee
coupled with Christian charity of a kind calculated
to promote a breach of the peace, or some equally
hazy offence, and sat upon him more heavily for
endeavouring to give a helping hand to this poor,
soiled, repentant Magdalen than he probably would
had he been the original cause other downfall. The
name of this legal luminary, we may mention, was
Peter Henry EdliD, not Dogberry or Barabbas, as
the reader might otherwise suppose. His letter
evoked a reply, in which the facts of the case were
fully stated, and, as the judge, in his maudlin
epistle, had threatened to call the attention of the
senior member of the bar mess to Mr. Woodgate’s
conduct, he was called upon to retract and apolo«
gise for that historic document. Bat his Honor
then took refuge in an attitude of masterly inac-
tivity. He did not proceed to call the attention of
the Bar to the young lawyer’s act of atrocious and
brutal benevolence, nor did he apologise for hav-
ng insulted him because he performed an act of
kindness which the judicial alligator on the bench
was unable to comprehend or appreciate. Finally,
after waiting three years for some kind of repara-
tion, the barrister resorted to an action for libel,
and Mr. Edlin, suddenly awaking to the fact that
he had acted under a misapprehension, ex-
pressed his regret, and retired with his forensic
tail between his legs. The importance of
this finale cannot be overrated. It has now
been established that a full-grown citizen in
England may give a penny to a blind beggar
or perform a similar act of kindness, with-
out a Judge having any right to call him bad
names on that account, unless, indeed the official
acts under a misapprehension, and should he so
act, he may be called upon to apologise at any
time within three years after the occurrence. It
also shows that a judge is not necessarily a gentle-
man, though it does not prove beyond question
that he is necessarily a hog, and it adds one more
to that long list of precedents which bristle up
like a forest of pines in that Valley of Desolation
called the English law.
Mr. Howard Vincent, who, the other day,
visited Australia with his rich wife, is now a mem-
ber of the Commons, and in opposing Sir Joseph
Pease's motion for the Abolition of Capital
Punishment, seems to have ventured upon some
remarkable statements. Hanging, he said, has
been found necessary in well-nigh every State in
every generation. Now, as a matter of fact, there
is hardly any state in Europe, save England, where
many criminals are sent to the scaffold. In France
death is still the penalty for murder in the first
degree; but the unwillingness of French juries to
convict is notorious, and very few are condemned
to death. In Prussia, again, although capital
punishment exists, and the sentence of death is
often passed, the only criminal executed in recent
years was Hodel, the man who fired at the Emperor
in 1878. The Emperor is known to have so
strong an objection to signing death-warrants,
that in passing the sentence of death the
Judges feel that they are doing no more
than recording it, and that it is certain to
be commuted. In Austria-Hungary death is the
penalty for premeditated murder; but of 816
cases in which guilty was found during the 10
years, 1870-9, only 16 were carried out. In Belgium
the penalty of death is retained ; but no execution
has taken place since the accession of the
King to the throne. In Russia the penalty of
death has been abolished for more than a century
for all cases except high treason, and the substi-
tuted punishment of the knout has been done
away with since 1863. In Denmark premeditated
murder is punished with death ; but no sentence
is considered definite until it has been confirmed
by the Supreme Court. It must then be taken
into consideration by the Council of Ministers, and
finally submitted to the King. Capital punish-
ment has not been inflicted in Denmark more than
once or twice since the year 1863. In Sweden
only one death sentence has been carried into
effect during the last 20 years. In Spain the
distinction is made between assassination and
homicide, and punishment by death, although
never abolished, has often been temporarily sus-
pended ; and the same may be said of Italy. In
the Netherlands the death penalty was abolished
many years ago. and the number of murders has
dropped to one-half. When, therefore, Mr. Vin-
cent replies that hanging is common throughout
Europe he says what he would find it difficult to
substantiate. The British races seem to like the
hanging and flogging system ; but is there after
all any evidence whatever that the hangman and
the flogger are public benefactors ? Tae idea that
hanging must be retained as an institution in Eng-
land and Australia simply involves the assertion
that British civilisation is a fraud—that the British
race is lower, meaner and more brutal than the
balance of civilised mankind.


PEPPER AMD SALT.
Strong in the “ God hears
and answers prayer,” 40 gentlemen and ladies met
together in the parlour of the Young Men’s Chris-
tian Association at Adelaide “ to join in earnest sup-
plication in regard to the temporal, social * and spiri-
tual condition of the colony.” Lucky colony 1 With
the hope of stirring up some Sydney people to
tnake us safe in the hereafter, we will sing a little
hymn of congratulation to our redeemed brethren.
Out of compliment to the ex-secretary of their
Y.M.C.A , suppose we call our hymn
There is a disposition on the part of
theatre audiences—especially those select portions
which sointillate in the dress-circle-to adopt a
high-toned indifference in the matter of applause.
Perhaps they are distrustful of their own emo-
tions, and fear that they might enthuse at the
wrong part. More likely a lurkiDg dread of ridi*
oule keeps them quiet. Anyway, the nobility and
gentry of these colonies will be grateful for a
little “ tip ”on this head. Know, then, that when
Madame Albani sang ‘‘Home, Sweet Home," at
the opening of the Colonial Exhibition, the Queen
(read this carefully) beat her hands together in
applause, bowing again and again to Madame,
and murmuring words of approbation.” In the
interests of tho perfesb, wo will sing a little—
RATHER I
Major-General Richardson has been making
a tour of inspection among the country volunteer
corps of N.S.W. “ He found great fault,” says a
rustic contemporary, “ with the Murrurundi corps
on the score of cleanliness.”
Why, Major-General Richardson,
We are surprised that you
For such a cause as this is should
Make such a phiilaloo.
We know that, when we once explalD,
You will regret, and rue it—
They wear their dirt as armour-plate,
And you can't hill them through it.
m a &
The incumbent of a church on the Blue
Mountains, N.S.W., appears to cut salvation
rather fine. He announces Bible classes for men
on Sundays at 3 p.m,, for women at the same hour*
and for ladies on Wednesdays. Apparently it
would not do in that parish for the women and
the ladie3 to get mixed, but the present system,
commendable as it may seem to thegalfer apostle,
must have some serious disadvantages. How is it
possible, for instance, to know when a woman
ceases to be a woman and becomes a lady,
or when a lady, who is not a woman,
sinks sufficiently in the social scale to become
one ? The line, of course, must be drawn
somewhere, but between the lower ranks
of the ladies and the upper strata of the women,
there must inevitably be heartburnings and
jealousies, and then what a delicate point it must
be to effect transfers from one class to the other.
The small ” storekeeperess” probably ranks merely
as a woman, but if her husband makes a luoky
speculation at Gympie or Sunny Corner she will, of
course, go up to the higher grade, and the sudden
rise may lead her to “ put on frills,” and make her-
self obnoxious* But imagine, If it be possible, the
feelings of the lady who attends as usual among
the silver-plated saints of the community on the
Wednesday after her husband has gone up Phillip-
street as far as the Insolvency court and is re-
quested to come on Sunday instead and take her
place with the women. Some good might be done
by establishing an intermediate class for females,
which, like purgatory, would form a half-way
station between the women who are not ladies
and the ladies who do not appear to be women*
but this would involve the episcopal doxology-
man in new difficulties. A clergyman who draws
such fine distinctions generally marks the line of
demarcation by taking off his hat to the ladies, and
merely nodding to the women, but how would
he salute the females so as to designate
their exact position ? A Christian smile might
perhaps answer the purpose, and, as there are dif-
ferent grades even among females, the smile
might be enlarged and stretched out at the
corners to any extent, provided the parson did
not turn himself outside in. We note with regret,
too, that there is no class for gentlemen at this
preoious parsonage. The women’s husbands seem
to come up to the scratch sufficiently to keep a
class going for men, but the male ladies are in the
background. As for the inoumberanoe (this is a
printer’s error—wo wrote incumbent), it is not
stated whether he is himself a man or a gentle-
man. Very likely he is—only a clergyman.
• * *
A country exohange, in speaking of Lord
Carington’s Mudgee wallaby-hunting exploits, re-
marks delightedly His Excellency became
readily familiar with quart-pot and tin-plate,
which he manipulated like a true bushman.”
This is a matter for national rejoicing. A tew
lines:—
One of the saddest obituary notices we
have yet seen is that which appears in the .Aaick-
land Herald on Edwin Bainbridge, who was
killed in the volcanic eruption at Rotorua <N.Z >
Nearly half a column is devoted to telling how he
nobly lost his life by staying to pray, Instead of
either running away like the more timid, or aiding
to save others as the braver of the residents—
both Maori and European—did; and finally the
writer sums up by saying:—“He'was a youth of
much promise thus lost to a world which j seeds
such men as he, and may need them more than
ever. A keen sportsman, a pood rider, and a devout
Christian, he has gone to the better land.” Perhaps
two-thirds of this crowning eulogy might have
been omitted with advantage. Why a keen sports-
man and a good rider should necessarily fetch the
Better Land is a puzzle. Wedon’t know for certain,
but it seems hardly probable tt at there is muoh
riding up there, and tho only chanoe appears to ba
that Balaam’s ass may have got inside the golden
gate, and the man who wrote this obituary notice
may be going, so as to make a pair. The whole
paragraph is strikingly, Jike a quotation from the
speech of a Federal officer, who perorated thus in
honour of those who fell during the American
civil war: “Comrades! we think of those who laid
down their lives in this glorious cause—not dead*
but at this moment before the Great White
Throne-er-er-er galloping round like the very
devil.”
* * *
An unparalleled affront was put upon
Governor Loch at the last Caulfield meeting.
Fortunately for the dignity of the Crown, the
incident passed unnoticed, even by tho lynx eyes;
of the Melbourne reporters. Fortify us with a.
“nobbier ” of neat brandy and we will endeavour'
to explain. The Gov. drove down to the course,,
accompanied by his little son, and attended by his
hade de kong. We love to adopt the regulation
Court Circular niceties in touching upon these
little matters. But to resume. Sir Henry, son,,
and satellite duly made their way to the grand-
stand, and the gubernatorial drag remained in the
enclosure. Actuated, probably, by a wild spirit of
Republicanism (or colonial beer), the Governor's l
orderly Heaven forgive him !—conceived the
daring soheme of mounting on top of that drag to
get a good view of the sport. The wretched man
was dangling his legs from the box-s Bat when the :
heagle heye of Sir ’Enry suddenly took in tho
situation. Our own blue orb was on the great-,
man at that awful moment. He appeared to reel l
with suppressed passioD, but by a supreme effort -:
of self-command he kept his noble legs. Presently
we observed his Excellency’s bloodless lips moving
convulsively in close proximity to the agitated
ear of his official myrmidon. In the twinkling of
an eye the hade de kong was alongside of the
drag, and in another twinkling the presumptuous
orderly was on terra firma, vainly endeavouring
to hide his diminished in his helmet. What
happened to the orderly on returning to quarters
we are unable to say for certain, but there are
grounds for presuming that he was torn limb
from limb and burled at four cross roads without
military honours. In a sense we are sorry for the
I man. He didn’t perhaps know that he was doing
anything so very out of the way in perching him-
self outside the drag and gazing down upon the
multitude. Loch’s orderlies have acquired a
haughty contempt for the multitude since
one of them sent a decent working man
to prison for jeering at him. Perhaps you
remember the circumstance. The bold warrior
was riding over Prince’s Bridge, Melbourne, when
the disgusted son of toil said, “ Who's this on
'orseback, putting on such a lot of side
That outspoken criticism was punished with a
shameful sentence of imprisonment. How subtle
and how wonderful are clas3 distinctions 1 The
orderly who c m sit on a working man isn’t per.
mitted to sit on His Excellency’s kerridge.
* ■ •
The obituary verses perpetrated by the
corpse poet of the Sydney Evening News are
rising to the dignity of a national catastrophe. A
few days ago he got a contract to muse over the
remains of Alfred Cain, who died 12 months ago,
and, in answer to the call, he hunted out six of his
best slop odes, and ran them in to comfort the
bereaved household. The sloppiest of the six
was as follows:
“ Poor Alfred gone I I saw him go;
I stood and heard him speak,
And when I heard his dying words
I thought my heart would break.”
Why did he not sit down to hear him speak ?
Moreover, it would greatly improve the rhyme if
the last two lines could be altered to read
He used to work when here below
“ For eighteen bob a week.”
We have also been in mourning for a dear friend
lately, an old and attached bookseller, who used to
call round regularly and ask us to subscribe for a
family bible complete in 12 parts, and on hearing
of his loss we at once hired the oflioe-boy to strike
his lyre in honour of the deceased. He has just
handed in the following maiden eifort, which we
will back against the Noose for any money that
may be wanted
We are weeping for our Daniel,
Who died last week at Stanwell,
Up in Queensland, where the kangaroo the wild
ba :ana chews.
He was aged 37,
And our hearts with grief are riven,
For he’s gone to rest with Abraham and all them
ancient Jews.
We would point out on behalf of the office-boy
that his lines contain a number of solid and valu-
able fact regarding the departed, which the
Nooze poet entirely omits. He explains briefly
and distinctly the name and age of the late book-
canvatssr, and the place and time of his death, and
finishes up by affording a clue to his present
whereabouts. He also expresses, with deep
pathos, the anguish we are suffering at his loss,
while the deep funereal gloom which might other-
wise grow painful in its intensity, is tenderly and
delioately shaded by the outline sketch of the
Queensland kangaroo chewing the banana in the
back-ground. The sympathising smile of the
uncultured marsupial shines out amid the gloom
like a brass-headed nail beaming in the roof of an
old hair trunk, and the whole verse is instinct with
the fervour of true poetry. If the Nooze could
hire a bard like this to write its half-crown obitu-
ary “ads.,” the death column might be made a
success.
WALKER!
South Australia’s sons were naughty,
Fraud was common through the land,
Till this faithful-feeliog forty
Took their comrades’ case in hand;
Christian men were sent to prison
(Think of Crooks’and Walker’s case 1)
But forty saviours have arisen
For this very favoured raco.
Sin may, like a shadow, darken
Other districts, it is true;
But the Lord will surely hearken
To these earnest, pleading few;
Satan (sometimes oalled the Devil)
Still may reign in distant parts—
Never more shall thought of evil
Sully South Australian hearts.
You, who might have grilled in Hades-
Tortured by Infernal Are—
Bless these gentlemen and ladles
When you twang the golden lyre;
Think, you might have found damnation—
Sweltered in sulphurous shade—
Save for prayer and supplication
Offered up in Adelaide.
When you chorus “Jubilate”
(As you will, without a doubi),
Don’t forget that p'erio party
Which has brought sour bliss abo.t;
As you fly around in glory,
Innocent of fleshly taintr,
Tell your friends the simple story
Of those forty faithful saints.
SONG TO THE ILENT CIBCLE.
Ye “ circle ” swells, who sit afrai 1
To mark your approbation,
Like other folks of lower grade
And greater animation,
Take heart 1 and clap your lily hands—
You never need be frightened—
'lis done, it seems, in other lands
By people more enlightened.
Her Gracious Majesty the Queen
(May Time new comforts bring her!)
Was—note the fact—distinctly seen
To clap a concert-singcr;
And, after suoh a gorgeous leftd,
’Twere only right and flt-o
That you should emphasise your breed
By doing ditto ditto.
We>e studied oft your languid style,
Observed (with stealthy snigger)
How e’en the spectre of a smile
You didn’t think “de rigger”!
In vain did prime donll sing
And mummers make mugs at you—
Applause you didn’t deem the thing,
BCj still as statues, sat you.
But now you've heard the latest news
We shall be seeing shortly,
A revolution in your viewj
On custcm3 that are courtly;
You’ll emulate is your applause
The gods ia all their glory;
You will, you will, you know you will—
TVs done by Queen Vietoree.
Yes, this is news to make us vain—
And who dares say ’tls not ?
That our Lord Governor should deign
To drink from a quart-pot—
To drink from a quart-pot, aud eke
To eat from a tin-plate—
Thank Heaven, that this news unique
Has not arrived too late I
To think that one whoso ways belong
To other spheres than these—
One who by lords and aides-de-camp
Is Berted bn bended knees—
Who eats ffonl golden dishes, with
Bright jewels set therein—
In fact, our very owH Lord Smith
Should condescend to tin I
Then rise and cheer while you can stand,'
Though demagogues may ffown»
This act has made us loyal, and—
We grovel to the Crown.
And when there comes in f uttife days’
Another hour of need
To England, shall we not, sirs, raise
More troops for her to bleed ?
You bet we will. And blazing on
Our banners you shall spot
These words: “Remember Carington,
The tin-plate and quart-pot.”
AUSTRALIANA.
A Mr. Bawler took a prominent part in a
Sydney concert last week.... The much-respected
Inspector Waters, of the Sydney Police, who died
suddenly last week, was one of the 50 men drafted
about 1852 from the London force for service in
N.B.W At Glen Innes, according to a local
paper, the two burning questions just now are the
Second Coming of the Lord, and the Joint Stock
Bakehouse. These items do not seem to have any
special connection, but they are bracketed to-
gether all the same.... The Queen, a “toney”
English paper, publishes a list of "Australian”
agents, and then adds, separately, those ; in
“Queensland.”.... Sydney E. News tells us how
they tried in America to cremate a man whose
head wouldn’t burn. He couldn’t have been an
ex-member of the Sydney Corporation
A witness in a Melbourne ass»ult case complains
that he was hit on the head with “ some nard sub-
stince,” Perhaps he expected to be brained with
the butt-end ot a pillow... Charles Christian, a
grandson of the Bounty mutineer, died in Norfolk
island on Queen’s Birthday.. .About 700 men are
now on the Croydon.... A large number of "dis-
tinguished Australians’’ were "commanded ’ Dy
Queen Victoria to lunch at Windsor Castle last Mon-
day. A private cablegram received on Tuesday
states that they have teen commanded not to
lunch there anv more J. G Cbippendall died
last week, aged 79. He entered the Government
service at the age of 19, and was the first
gaoler in Bathurst, which position he held
till about 15 years ago, when he retired. What a lot
of floggings the old man must have "assisted'’ at..
We read in a London paper that “among the many
celebrities assembled at a big reoeption given by
Mrs. Beerbohm at Clanricame Girdens, Miss Am y
Bherwin (‘the Tasmanian Nightingale’) delighted
her auditors with her cbarmiDg voice ; she is one
of the few ladies who look pretty whilst singing.”
A NZ contemporary complains bitterly be-
cause in a district which boasted two parsons and
a multitude of lay Christians no one couid ne
found to read the burial-service over a deceased
, gum-digger named Jackson. Pooh I Dead men
tell no tales, and dead Jacksons have no half-
crowns A Hobart man has celebrated his birth-
day in original style. When it arrived he loaded
himself up with strychnine and then departed to
inform his friends in the other world that he was
j ust 30 years old when he left this one. No more
morning papers for him. Happy man!
An Auckland Freethought paper calls on its
readers to pay up on the plea that “ He who giveth
to the poor lendeth to the Lord.” This looks like
the usual death-bed repentance An unpatriotic
N.Z. journal speaks of the lost glories of Kotoma-
hana H 8 “ a little one-horse display.”—Cruelty to
animals! The member for Maryborough (Q)
telegraphed to his constituents that he was thina-
ing of ooming to make a speech, and they wired
back telling him not to do it They had just
heard all about Jawbone Neild There is to be a
Post-oilice at Mossman's Bay, Sydney. We pre-
sume this means that the Daad Litter Department
will be shifted to that sweet retreat. None but a
ghost—and not a sober ghost at that —would go
there to look for letters The Saturday Keview
hasn’t killed Mr. James Inglis (“ Maori”), who has
in the press yet another boob, “ Our N Z. Cousins.”
. .Archdeao,n Allnutt. said bank-detaulter Greer
“ had a taint of insanity in his family.” He said,
“prisoner had been a member of his congrega-
tion; he had known him for six yea s as a con-
stant attenoant at his church, ana he was held in
high esteem by all classes in Portland.” Pretty
conclusive “Bacon,” writing in the Sydney
D.T., says that Shakespeare couldn’t have written
the plays attributed to him, as when young he
“possessed all those qualities which in the present
day constitute a dangerous larrikin. A youth like
Shakespeare would be a hero ia Woolloomooloo.”
A correspondent of a Sunny Corner journal
says he has traversed the United states. Mexico,
and Alaska, but he never saw a desert like “this
Western Australia humbug.”.... The Cairns (N.Q )
Town Council have been reduced to humping out
their furniture in the early dawn to dodge the
bum-bailiff. ...The man who wants to succeed
Sir T. M’llwraith as a member for Muigrave
(Q ). is a bush-lawyer, who owns a two-storey
pub, end spells horribly “horribeily.” An
undertaker ad vertices, "Why live and be miserable
when you can be buried comfortably for £3 10s. ? ”
Oa the other hand, why die and be miserable
when you can live in wealth by bting an
‘ Escaped Nun,” and passing the plate?
We don't see why anJAntarctic exploration com-
mittee should be formed in Sydney unless it be
shown that there is anyone at the South Tele who
can be killed to help England in her hour of need.
~..A.n old woman has been found dead inside a
cask in Sydney. Generally it happens the other
way about...." Extreme remedies ” were success-
fully resorted to at Melbourne hospital in the case
of Gustave Haozel, who drank a pint of rum and
a pint of beer for a wager. " Extreme remedies ”
in such cases generally consist of the application
to the drunk s feet oc electricity from a battery
which kills right away or makes the subject sit
up sober and swear Ballarat is at present the
Paradise of burglars. They have robbed a police-
man’s house while the policeman was at home and
in bed. It is rumoured that the Billarai burglars
are about to endow a church The Caires (N Q.)
boat-disaster, by which seven men lost their lives,
and four widows and lamiiies their means of sup-
port, seems to have arisen from tbs all-skippers-
aod-no-sailors system The Women’s Christian
Temperance Union of Adelaide have presented -
petition signed by 803 women praying the Attora
ney General to procure the retirement or expul-
sion of C. C. Kingston from the Legislature, on
account of his connection as co-respondent with
the recent Watson divorce case Bir Arthur
Palmer says “he landed in N.S.W. with £25, and
has never had a shilling given to bim since ” We
know several persons who landed with riot more
than 251. in their pocuets, and now they hold
some of;tbe snuggest positions in the land, though
they never had a copper given to them, either.
But they toolc all they could grab whenever a
chance occurred, and that accounts for the lacteal
fluid concealed in the amygdala theombroma —
Houghton Domain, whioh adjoins Sandringham,
the favourite residence of the Prince of Wales, is
advertised for sale. Now, which distingui bed
colonist is going to be registered as its owner ?....
Up North there’s a G.P.O. which ought to have
inscribed over its entrance, “The bourne from
whence no letter (with cash) ever returns,” .550
girls and 551 boys born ia Melbourne and suburbs
during May. Pretty even scoring....“ Why not,”
asks a Jingo party, writing to a London paper
“ have a Duke of Australia, a Marquis of Ontario,
or Duke of Sierra Leone?’’ Certainly. Why not?
Ora Duke of Pinchgut, an E*rl of Dungaree, and
a Marquis of Mud Fiat.
Australia to Americs Greeting!
THE GLORIOUS FOURTH.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
This is a jubilee, a day of joy 1
For freemen all;
This day did Liberty—that virgin coy—
At Freedom’s call,
Erect, o’er thraldom's grave, on blood-fat earth,
Her temple grand,
Whose glowing altar flames keep warm each hearth
Throughout your land.
This day did Tyranny retreat before
Virginian blades;
This glorious day meet, on your peaceful shore,
Eleven decades;
This day the haughty Norman’s claws were
clipped—
Disastrous dfty—
This day the bird of freedom’s shell was chipped;
Hail, glorious day!
Sprung from the self-same nook of sea-girt earth,
Of one stout race;
Just after you won Freedom was our birth;
We fill your place;
Our day to seek the upward path you trad,
Comes on us fast;
Nor need we armed walk, red-hand, rough-shod,
Those days are past;
Columbia fc ail 1 A sister sends you cheer,
And happy days;
May peace and plenty crown each generous year,
And mankind’s praise;
Thy health! Kepubllc great, with glory fraught,
Place these poor lays,
A tribute to the deeds your hands have wrought
Among your bays.
July 4 th, 1886.
GEO. BLACK.
BEWARE!
Unprincipled persons, Jealous of the success of
Warner’s safe cure, and utterly unscrupulous as
to the means employed to compass their selfish
ends, advertise in the public prints that their
nostrums will cure Kidney and Liver Diseases.
Such a result was never heard or thought of until
it was believed money might be obtained by trad-
ing on tne fair name and fame of Warner’s safe
cure. Any person of intelligence knows that Vile
Whisky Bitters will not, never has, nor ever can
cure diseased Kidneys or Liver. The raw liquor
in these cheap decoctions acts as fire on the delicate
tissus of the inflamed and congested organs, and
makes their victim infinitely worse. Yet what do
these human vultures care ? Nothing! It is ‘your
money and your life ” with them. There is but
one known specific for Kidney, Liver, and Urinary
diseases, and that is Warner’s safe cure. It has
been subjected to the most severe tests in three
continents, and incontestibly proved to be ail it is
represented by hundreds of thousands of grateful
men and women. As you value your health, shun
all vile worthless Whisky Bitters as you would so
much poison.
For Fat Persons.—Dr. F. C. Rus3elt's
English Cure for Corpulency, Perfectly harmless
ana healthful. Reduces from sto 7 pouuds weekly
In cases (double strength) at reduced prices. Elliott
Bros., and all chemists.


SOCIAL
A very enjoyable ball was held in Sydney
Town Hall on Monday evoaiag, to celebrate the
110th anniversary of the Declaration of American
Independence About 400 were present, and, as
admission for two people cost three guineas, the
committee had no reas m to be dissatisfied on the
score of attendance The general arrangements
were extremely good. The sup air was both sub-
stantial and elegant, recherche refreshments wf re
plentifully served during the evening; the pro-
grammes were most tasteful, and the music, by
Needs' band, was admirable, and played through a
programme of 30 dances. Tin vestibule was
decorated with ferns and pot-plants, and American
and Australian fl?gs were gracefully draped about
the walls. The places of rendezvous were well-
arrangad. Each bore the nama of an American
State or city printed in large letters on a con-
spicuous 11 ig. and at each of these rendezvous was
a gentleman who acted as master of ceremonies.
The ball was announced to take placa at niae
o'clock, and punctually at that time Lard and
Lady Carington arrive!, accompanied by Miss
Wbeelan, Mr, Wallington, P.S., Captain Sheriffs
and Lord Bertie, A.sD C. Th-y were received ny
Consul Griffin, and the baud struck up the
National Ancnem Tne first set of quadril es was
firmed by Lord Carlnvton and Mrs Cnipmau
vls-a vis to Consul Griffin and Lady Caring ton,
the sides being taken by tne Mayor and Miss K jhlo
and Mr. Kahlo with the Mayoress. The toilettes
worn by the ladies were of an extremely handsome
description. Am ingst the vis tors were the Bight
Hon. W. B. Dailey, Sir Patrick Jennings and Lady
Jeniiog3, Mr. and Mrs. C. J. Huberts, the Hon.
J. Fletcaer, Cady and the Misses Manning, G neral
Furlong, Captain Lake, RN., Mr. and rs. John
Purves Mr. and Miss Hogg, Mrs. Gullett, Mr. and
Mrs. Fischer, Miss Traill. Mrs Bures, Mrs. Moulton,
&o. Lady Carington wore a quiet and tasteful dress
of pale pink, with beautiful diamonds in her hair;
Mrs. Chipman, a lovely dreis of rich white satin,
relieved by primrose velvet; Miss Young, the
Mayoress of Sydney, a pretty pink dress; Miss
Kahlo, all white ; Mrs. M Quade looked cMc in a
costly white dresi composed of beautiful soft
figured siik and train oc terry velvet ; Miss C ara
Manning looked well in a pale-blue satin and tulle,
Miss Guilett wore an old gold satm, veiled with
nut-brown tulle, and an uncommon necklet of
minute rosary b°ads ; Miss Mai len, pal 3-blue satin,
Mrs. Ferrlday, old gold satin and rich black lace ;
Mrs. Andrews, purj white satin and pearls ;
Mrs. Coates, an elaborate gown of pale pink
and blue silk, with back draperies of pale
blue broche, pink aigrette in her hair; Mrs.
Fischer, handsome black lace dress, with a
spray ol natural flowers on the corsage; Mrs
Lakeman. pale-blue satin, trimmed with white
lac j ; Mrs. Moulton, a much-admired dress of
dull green velvet, with pale-green plumes tailing
over the right shoulder. Not a few ladles compli-
mented the Americans by shoving stars and
stripes somewhere about their costumes, one lady
having the p-etty flag painted on each end of her
sash, whilst Mrs Chipman showed her nationality
by her fan. The only drawbacks of the ball were
that there were few uniforms in the room, and
that the ladies cmslderably outnumbered the
gentlemen.
* *
Mr. Horatio Gilbert Parker’s first dramatic
and humorous recital was given at Sydney Town
Hall one evening last week, and, with the help of
Lord Carington, attracte I a large audience. As at
least some few peonle really went to hear Mr.
Parker, and not to stare at vice-royalty, it was too
bad that the gorgeous Ushers engaged dido t give
as many as th< y could a show—or rather a hear.
The ushers aforesaid teemed to delight m crowd-
incr everyone into the worst seats, declaring* the
■while that all the rest were occupied, despite the
point-blank contradiction afforded to their impu-
dent assertion by rows of vacant chairs in the best
part of the hall. People unavailingly made ear
trumpets of their hands, but even then Mr.
Parker’s elocution was almost utterly lost. Those
who were able to hear, however, were unanimous
in praising the entertainment-which, when it is
given again, should be carefully kept out of
Sydney Town Hall.
* * •
A Fancy Fair, in aid of Christ Church
organ fund, was held in the vestibule of Sydney
Town Hall, on last Thursday, Friday, and Satur-
day The Primate opened it on the first afternoon,
and with the help of the parishioners, the bazaar
has proved a great success. The stalls were
arranged '.about the vestibule, and were presided
over by Misses Garnsey and Greville, Misses Z illner,
Miss Knight, Mrs Buck, and the Misses Wilkinson.
The affair was a very pretty sight, and its attrac-
tions were much enhanoed by the fancy-dress cos-
tuoi6B worn by the stall-holders. The flower-girls
were especially irresi tible.
«, • 8
The Sydney Philharmonic Society gave
Kowalski’s “ Vercingetorix ” in the great hall of
tne University, on the evening of Thursday, July
1 The work has been performed in Sydney be-
fore. and will probably be heard again. The hall
was packed-even standing room’was tcarce-and
M Kowalski was gratified by the compliments of
Lord land Lady Carington at the finish of the con-
cert. Miss Saville looked nice in a ruby and pink
satin dress, and sang her solos as if she ha! really
made a htudy of them. Miss Mountcastle also
warbled sweetlv. but Mr. Halle well was hardly
himself. Mr. Vernon Keid, who seemed some-
what troubled about the curls on his alabaster
forehead, was in good voice; and the choruses
were fairly given. Amongst the orchestra, despite
the presence of many of the best performers,
thiogs were by no means perfect. The composi-
tion lB certainly worthy of better treatment, for,
as was evident to all musicians, it is really a very
fine work. Mons. Kowa’ski conducted, aDd Mr.
Kivers Alpress led the orciestra with his accus-
tomed ability.
* * *
On Wednesday, 30tfi ult, Miss Marian
Chadwick, eldest daughter of Mr. Robert Chad-
wick, of Arlington, ndgecliffe-road, Woollahra,
■was married, at A'l Saints' Woollahra, to Mr. N.
Newberry, of Sydney Grammar School. The
church was most beautifully and tastefully
decorated with green fo iage and rare flowers-tbe
work of some young lady friends ot the bride-
arid a lovely arch of flowers just at the entrance to
the transept was greatly admired. At two o clock
the bride entered the church leaning on her
father’s arm. She was followed by two small
r> iges and four bridesmaids, the bridegroom and
his best man, Mr. Whitfield, being ready to receive
them The Primate, assisted by the Revs. W.
Mort W. M'Arthur, and Mr. ReltcD, performed
the ceremony. The service was choral. The
bride's dress was composed of heavy white brci-
oided velvet and white satin, tbe bodice laced ia
iront and finished eff with pearl lace. Tne
usual long tulle veil and wreath of orange-
blossoms were worn on the head, with the
addition of a beautiful diamond and pearl
Din U the gift cf the bridegroom. The four
bridesmaids were attired exactly alike m
becoming and pretty frocks of white china silk,
with panels and waistcoats of heliotrope satin. The
small bonnets were soft white drawn tube, wiih
bunches ot heliotrope, and each young lady carried
a bouquet of heliotrope, maidenaair ferns, and
rosebuds. Miss B. Cruickshank was chief brides-
maid, the other three being Miss Nellie Manning,
Mi a L Busby, and Miss Armstrong. One of tne
fwo pages, was master Herbeit Chadwick,
dreaded in a fanciful costume of heavy blue vel-
vet with large white lace collar. The otter page
wore a handsome black velvet suit, as the bridal
nartv left the church, M ss Woolley played the
••Wedding March." The guests then adjourned
to Arlington, where refresa u. ents were served. The
wedding presents were numerous and handsome.
Tne guests, of whom there were many, ineludea the
Primate, Sir W. and Cady Manning and the Misses
Manning, the Rev. W. Macarthur aid Miss Mac-
arthur, the Hon. Alexander and Mrs. Campbell,
Mr., Mrs and the Miaaes Busby, the Rav. Mr. and
Mrs. North-Ash, the Rsv. Mr. and Mrs. Pain, Mr.
and Mrs. Jackson, Dr. and Mrs. Robertson, Dr.
and Mrs. Palmer, Mrs. Marks, Mr. and Mrs. Darley,
Mr. Weigal), &o. Mr. .and Mrs Newberry left for
their honeymoon to Moss Yale, amidst good
wishes, prettv slippers, and showers of rice. The
bride’s travelling-gown was navy-blue material,
braided with black, small black bonnet, with
scarlet feathers.
* * *
No luncheon was provided at Liverpool
races last Saturday, and thin was, of course, a great
disappointment and annoyance to those who had
gone without picnic baskets. It seems, though,
that nobody in particular was to blame for this
oversight which was due to some hitch in the
Ltoansiag Act. Tha weather was simplytperfect,
and the course in grand order. The ladies were
not numerously represented, but still some half-a-
dozen pretty dresses were to be noticed. A grey
plush overall, with large red buttons and rei cord,
was noticeable; and a pretty dre e w.s composed
of pale-blue frisi cloth, artistically draped at the
back, the front panel and vest being of bronze-
coloured velvet, small bonnet and parasol to
correspond. A handsome gown was royal-blue
plush trimmed with grey-feather binding, small
grey bonnet ornat9 with blus a id crimson velvet
bows.
* * *
Lady Rosebery’s first Reception at the
Foreign Office was a very brilliant tfftir. The
Prinoe and Princes of " ales and several other
members of the Royal Family were present, and
amongst a numerous contingent of leading colo-
nists and others colonially connected, were Sir
Hercules ltiblnsoD, Sir Saul and Lady Samuel, Sir
Daniel and Lady Cooper, Bir Arthur and Lady
Blyth, and Sir Charles.Tupper.
• •
The N.S.W. Colonial Secretary, accom-
panied by Lady Carington and Captain Sheriff,
A.D.C., and the Government health-oilicer, paid an
official visit to the Female Benevolent Asylum at
Newington one day last week.
* * *
The marriage of Dr. W. E WarreD, of
El zabeth-street, Sydney, with Miss Macready,
daughter of the Rev. Henry Macready, is to take
place quietly on the 14th inet. Honeymoon for
a month to Melbourne.
* * *
Mr. and M»s. Thomas Rober'son, of Mao-
cleay-street, Potts Poiat, have issued invitations
for a dinner party to be given on Friday eveniDg.
* * *
Mrs. Bowie Wilson has issued invitations
for private theatricals, to take place on Thursday
evening, the Bth, in the Council-chambers, Hunter s
Hill. The entertainment is anticipated with great
interest.
8 © r
The engagement is announced of Mr. Ver-
non Cotton, manager of the Bank of N.s.W.,
Scone, and eldest son of Mr. Henry Co'ton, of
Newcastle, N.8.W., to Ethel, second daughter of
Mr. Shepherd Bmith, general manager of the BaDk
of N.S W., Sydney.
* * *
The Hon. James and Mrs. Norton, of
Double Bay, have issued cards for a dance on the
evening of Wednesday the 7ch.
* * *
An engagement is announced between Mr.
E. Gale, of Lane Cove, and Miss Mgmey Melville,
of Tumut. *
* * *
H.M.S. Nelson leaves Farm Cove early
this week for a cruise of six or eight weeks’
duration.
* * *
The Freemasons of Bt. Leonards are ar-
ranging to have a large ball on the 29tb, at which
it is said Lord Carington has promised to be
present.
* * v
On the afternoon of Thursday, the Bth,
H.E. tLord Carington will present the medals
awarded in connection with the wreck of the
Ly-ee-moon.
•- » *
We read that at the recent marriage of the
head political secretary of the English Primrose
League, the bridesmaids, eight in number, carried
fans emblazoned with the diploma of primrose
dames, while the ornaments include l brooches of
pearl and primrose, the gifts of the bridegroom.
■» * *
The members of the Australian Club, who
wish to mark their pleasure of the distinction the
Queen has conferred on the Right Honorable W.
B. Dailey, are to banquet him. We fancy this will
be about the first banquet this gentleman will
have attended, and he wilt no doubt feel nervous
while delivering his after-dinner speech.
* * *
Lord and Lady Carington will be present
at the Bcrrima coursing-match, to be held on tbe
28 th insf.
• * *
Governor Cariogton’s visit to Newca tie
seems to have destroyed the harmony of that
peaceful community beyond recall. The procla-
mation of a public holiday docked the railway
employees and others of a day’s pay, and before
they had time to recover, a sec >nd day of rejoic-
ing was announced over tneadvent of the Queens-
land footballers, and another stoppage of work
and wages ensue i. The Newcastle men now hope
that foreign celebrities of all kinds will give their
town a wide berth, for a month or two at all
events, and “loyalty,'’ except among clerks who
suffer no deduction for holidays, is much below
par.
* * *
The popular Mr. George Darrell is, we hear,
once more a Benedict, he having been privately
married in N Z. some montbs ago to a member or
his company, Miss Christina Peacnley, whohas.now
retired from the stage.
* * *
The officers of ihe N.S.W. Colonial Secre-
tary's department have just made a hands me
presentati- n to the Principal Under Secretary, Mr
Critchett Walker, wh< se blrtbday anniversary
occurred last week, and who is about to be
married. Mr. Walker is one of the few men in this
world who can serve many masters and betray tne
confidence of none, and who, while ever the per-
sonification of courtesy, nevor says ' yes when
he means “no '’ The public are not surprised to
find such excellent relations existi-g between Mr.
Walker ana his brother officers.
• • •
An engagement between a charming ana
accomplished young lady from Brisbane and a
promising member of the West Camden Light
Horse, is reported.
* * *
Colonel Griffin's levee, which was held in
the U.S. consulate last M mday morning, was at-
tended by most of the notables ©f Sydney.
♦ ♦ *
In The Bulletin’s “Social” column this
week is described a “swagger” marriage that
took place in Sydney last ween. It is satisfec.ory
to find that here we understand how the knot
should be tied in style America is far behind us
in this as in other matters. For instance, tne
President of the U.S. of America, who rules some
50,003,000 folks, got married last month. This inci-
dent created some slight interest in social circle?,
and had been talked of as quite an event tor
several days previously. It dees not take much to
be an event in America. A Potts Point wedding
held in the States would keep the Union lively i«r
months beforehand. However, Mr. Cleveland got
mrrried to Miss Folsom Only 26 persons were pre-
sent at the wedding, and as they merely included
the great officers of the Government, they went
for to account in the Bhow. But the ladies
dresses did. There was a time when men eminent
for politics, literature, and art, were worth men-
tioning. But that sort of trash is over.
say Tennyson or Lowell—is nothicg compared to
his wife’s drees. That’s something to be proua
of. Any man might do "copy” like, ‘'ln
Memoriam,” or “the Biglow Papers, bat
where’s the man who can own a wife who can
show a dress that will make her the best-hated
woman in (he room ? You can count them all on
the toes of a wooden le«r. That’s the true test of
“ worth.” Pope, and he knew a thing or two,
distinctly tells as that —
“ Worth makes the man—the want of it the fellow;
The rest is all but leather or prunella.”
And so it ought to be. ’ The President, in this
case, is dismissed in one line; we are told he “ was
pale and nervous;” and then he takes a back
seat for the rest of the show, and makes way for
some 25 columns of matter descriptive of the
dresses wern.by Miss Folsom—her mamma, auntp,
and female hangers-on. We don’t understand
much about these things, but Miss Folsom
seems to have-worn enough clothes to have
thawed the North Pole had it been dressed in
them. The company, after the parson had done
his best, went to the supper-room, and while the
guests were eating, Mrs. C. slipped out and got
into travelling dress. “She allowed herself 40
minutes to make the change, but before that time
a trunk was brought downstairs, and she and Mr.
Cleveland followed, and with the whole company
running after them and throwing handfuls of rice
at them as they fled from the corridor. The bride
wove a travelling dress of dark-gray silk and camel
hair. A border of narrow white stripes half a
yard deep trimmed the skirt, and the draperies
were of the same fine Btripes. A long double-
breasted waistcoat, trimmed with cut-steel but-
tons, opened over a vest of white stripes, and a
square plaston of gray velvet fell from a high
rolling collar. With thiß she wore a large English
hat of gray straw, lined with gray velvet, and
trimmed with stiff rows of Plcot ribbon. Dark
gray undressed kid gloves went w.th the cos-
tumes.” The gifted reporter pursues the victims
1 1 their honeymoon-quarters, and tells all he can
about the place. But we do not care to lollow.
■ ■ •
It is rumoured that Admiral Tryon will
leave permanently for England in November.
The Admiral is so striot a disciplinarian that
large number of naval heroes, whose chief business
out here is heiress-hunting, won’t be sorry if he
leaves. The wish has possibly been father to the
rumour. + *
Mr. and Mrs T. Lakeman, of Annan,Botany
st eet, Waverley, have issued invitations for a
danc9 on 13th inst., at the Oddfellows’ Hall, Church
street.
* * *
Mr. and Mrs. Mitchell, of Etham, Darling
Point, have issued invitations for a dance, to take
place on Tuesday evening the 13th inst.
* * »
Lord Carington is to present the meials
to the brave fellows who distinguished them-
selves at the wreck of the Ly-ee-Moon, to day
(Thursday). The ceremony place at the Ex-
change, and is likely to draw a big crowd.
* * *
Last Thursday night the pupils of Mr.
Boyle’s singing class gave a very successful concert
in the Sydney Protestant Hall. The chorus num-
bered nearly 3 JO. i
* * *
The Sydney, D.T. tells us that at the
“Colonies” the Queen was presented to Captain
Loftus. Fancy her pride in being allowed to kits
young Gussy's hand I Tnere are moments when a
Queen has to be the very cream of life, and ours
certainly has her share.
* * *
If you would have a nice song let us re-
commend “ A Dream of Yore,” by Logi, which is
not only a pretty song, but a good valse, or O
Were Love” (word 3 by dear old Burns), whioh
latter is easy, and so may find admirers amongst
those who have sense enough not to try things
merely because they happen to he difficult.
# * *
Mr. Day has arrived, as trainer to the
horses of fI.E. Governor Carington. With
him comes Whiting, an English light-weight
jockey. We hope He will succeed in often oawy-
ing the purple and buff of his popular master to
the front.
* * *
The Rosehill races come off on the 10th
inst. It is quite time that the “fashion” was set
of going to this charming little course. True, it
will be less pleasant then than now, but the dol-
lars are wanted to make this or any other oou: 89
a complete suebess.
♦ * •
The Lady’s Pictorial (London) gives a
full-page illustration of the beautiful toilette
worn oy Mrs. Augustus Loftus at the Queen s
drawing room. The lady’s husband is the young*
gentleman who draws £lOOO a year from a most
grateful country as olerk to the late Sir A. Stuart.
* *. *
The Sydney Lancers are to give a tourna-
ment shortly I This sport chiefly consists in beiDg
knocked off your horse, and as the S.L. fall off
their noble chargers about six times each at a
review, they won’t find the thing very novel, ex-
cept that the prod in their 80-inch waists may dis-
compose them a little at first. But the thing will
take—we ourselves would go a good thousand
miles to see Corporal Jack “ witch the world with
noble horsemanship.”
* * *
His Worship Mayor Young is arranging to
give a large fancy dress hall on 21st July in honor
of Her Majesty’s jubilee. All the dresses are to ba
taken from the 15th century to 1830. This will give
Darling Point an opportunity of sporting the long-
laid-by armour of its forbears.
* * *
The ML.R.C. ball has been postponed to
Aug. 3, no prior date being available.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Masonic Lodge St. Andrew Social Re-
union and Dansante, West’* Rooms ... July 3
Mr. and Mrs. Lakeman s Sooial, Oidftl-
lows’ Hall, Woollahra Jufy
Owl Club’s Hypinx, Masonic Hall .... .... July 14
Eastern Suburbs A. A. Club Social, Niths-
(jglp j July Id.
The Mayor’s Fancy Dress Pall, Exhibition
Building ! July 23.
Mercantile Rowing Club Ball, Town Hall Aug 3.
Mayor Young is getting old.
The bakers in some parts of Victoria are
uniting to raise the price of bread. Some of these
days 11 will be a baaer s dozen instead of 13.
The Fourth of J uly turned up on a Sunday
this time, and, of course the flare*up tookpla.e
on the day following. Wonder If the Day of
Judgment will be similarly postponed should It
occur on a Sabbath ?
From S.M. Herald “ A.B.C.—Return
or write at once. All financial matters settled
satisfactorily.—Y.Z.” We presume that this signi-
fies that the old woman has once more squared his
beer-score.
A lot of papers object to the test question
put to each candidate tor membership of the Aus-
tralian Natives' Association: - Are you moderately
moral ? ” on the ground that “ moderately mora. I ,’
under the circumstances, leally means “mode-
rately immoral.” We, however, are glad to see
the Australian natives display evidences of cau-
tion- Immoderately moral men, like Crcots,
would so very often disgrace the Association by
getting into gaol.
An individual who calls himself “ Gerald
Finch-Hatton,” and who was for some t™® a
public nuisance in Sydney, appeared amongst the
drunkards at the Brisbane Police Court last Mon-
day. Gerald, who alleges that he is a sw of the
Eirl of winchilsea, once went into the office of the
N.B.W. Crown solicitor with his chest stiokirg out
and his Hatton. Mr. Williams steadily regarded his
illustrious visitor for a moment; then, clapping
on his own tile, said, "Now, sir, we are on an
equality—what can I do for you ? ”
RADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY :
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
fa
£• O K PIANOFORTE,
(VdO guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable,
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brilliant
tone, in handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O'Con-
nell-street.
sdf
.A.
USTRIAN CHAIRS
in Great VARIETY
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB,
Spring and O’Connell
streets.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment, just opened, many quite new
designs.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, See. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb.
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match.
D
\Y
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
ALNUT TELESCOPE DINING TABLES,
..with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
E 2
Sideboards of modern
designs and various dimen-
sions, in OAK, MAHOGANY,
WALNUT, ASH, and CEDAR.
A large selection, at all
prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
7"aLL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb-
■\rOVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
J3I SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’ Connell - street.
WALL-MIRRORS and BRACKETS, novelties
in Plush and Velvets, and in all Woods,
from ss. 6d. each.
VENETIAN MIRRORS, richly
■"i enamelled, in colours. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
asd
Drawing room cabi-
nets, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
Drawing-room furniture.—The latest
development of fashion, ROSEW OOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Manufacturers, Spring and O'Connell streets.
i, v}.y\S|g
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs, covered to order in
any material.
fas
Bedsteads, ail sizes,
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Importers,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMIL
df
BRADLEY,
SPRING MATTRASSES
Woven Wire, best
make; also, Spiral Springs.
Price, from 14s. each.
vwTON. and LAMB.


Are the Victorians desirous of a change
in their fiscal policy ? At the election held last
week for the representation of the Wellington
Province in the Legislative Counci], the Liberal
and Protectionist candidate, Mr. David Ham,
obtained a majority of 700 votes over the Conser-
vative and Freetrader, Mr. T. D. Wanliss. The
result is more than usually significant, as the elec-
tion was taken on the ratepayers' roll alone, man-
hood-suffrage voters having no voice in the
creation of the Viotorian upper House.
When Mr. William Clarke, M.L.A. for
Orange, found he was not included in the last
Dibbs Ministry, he endeavoured, after the re
assembling of the present Parliament in November
last, to form a new party. He soon discovered,
however, that he did not enjoy the unbounded
confidence of his fellow-members. He then ap-
pointed himself the leader of the “ hay and corn”
party, and tabled a motion in favour of putting a
tax on foreign produce, and he also told the
Government that the proper way to make
up the defloit was by means of ad valorem
duties. The same William Clarke who proposed
ad valorem duties and advooated Protection for
PAINTING A COW.
FLIFGENDE BLATTER.
the farming industry, voted against Protection for
the manufacturing industry at the first chance he
got, and he is now a member of the Free-trade-
cum-Parkes’ faction, fighting against the ad
valorem proposals of the Jennings Cabinet. The
Political trickster who has jumped about in
this shameless way ii now stumping the
country with Parkes in the hope that the
doughty Knight wilt make a Minister of him. If
the Liberals and Protectionists of OraDge will only
bury their sectarian feelings at the next election
and do their duty, they will send Mr. William
Clarke to a place where he will have ample time
to reflect on his inglorious Parliamentary career.
The latest reports from the Kimberley
dlstriot are about the worst yet received, but the
rush still continues unabated. A N.Z. digger
writes that he once joined a party who purposed
forming a settlemen t on the coast at Camden Har-
bour, between Cambridge Gulf and Derby, and 40
out of 130 men died in three months. It was then
midsummer, and the temperature stood at 140 iu
the shade for six hours daily. But ancient miners
are looking forward to a revival of the good old
blue-shirt days of Bendigo and Ballarat, and still
they go. Nor is it any wonder they want to
recall these bygone times. The sun shone
brighter then, the whisky was purer, the
Presbyterian Synod was meeker, and things
were happier all round. Sir Graham Berry
was running a small general store about that
period, and giving over-weight with the flour and
potatoes—at least people said so: Sir Henry Parkes
was selling jumping-jacks, tops, and yellow
wooden monkeys, and was a humble but respected
citizen; and Sir Julius Vogel was writing up
“ drunfcs,” dog-flghts, marriages of storekeepers
daughters, and other interesting items, in his
capacity as a very small man on a very small paper.
It is the memory of these things that is sending
the present generation to dig for gold and
K M.C G.-ships at Kimberley, but their prospects
seem hardly so bright as did those of their pro-
genitors.
Editors are fond of calling the Press the
pulpit of the present day. They also allude to it
as the " Pillar of Morality, and the Buttress of
Virtue.” But a Gippsland editor is an editor by
himself. He says what he thinks, and cares nothing
for the unwritten laws of literature For instance,
a girl living a Jong way from Warragul (Vlo.)
“ cleared out,’ from her foster-mother the other
night—through a bach-■window, too—and against
that foster-mother’s will came clattering on horse-
back into Warragul, and forthwith got married to
the galoot of her choice. Wb»t does the editor of
the Warragul Guardian say ? Does he don the
black rap of condemnation ? Does he hold her up
as a shocking example to other self-willed young
women, and prognosticate that she will have cause
to repsnt her headstrong act? Not he. He just
pats her on the back and crows about her through
a good part of a column, winding up with this
depraving sentence:— 11 Of course, our readers will
join with us in admiring the pluck of the young
lady, and so will her foster-mother in less than a
»cw g an editor who hasi no regard ferthe respon-
u airi v hiam o thn w h 1 nnsl and is a
spaisely-populated place, and henaturally favours
anything which will tend to increase the popula-
tion-which, of course means subforibers. He is,
re think, a very far-seeing man in this ease, how-
evwr*
The MODERN ARTFURNISHING
WAEE SIOTTSB
OP
Es, L
•?
V
POMEROY CHAMBERS,
CASTLERE AG H STREET, SYDNEY,
Between the Sydney Club and the New Athenaeum Club.
T
HESE RECENTLY-ERECTED MAGNIFICENT FILE OF BUILDINGS HAVE BEEN FITTED
UP BY
Jones, Lawson Bros., and Co.,
AS SHOWROOMS, FOR TSE DISPLAY OF
ART FURNITURE
IN MODERN AND MEDIEVAL STYLES,
Suitable for Large or Small Buildings, and adapted to all tastes, the workmanship and finish of
every piece being of the highest order.
In the Carpet and Curtain Department,
he Quality of the Goofs is Unsurpassable, the Designs Unique, and the Coat Reduced to a Minimum,
as the arrangements entered into by J 'NES, LAWHON hros., and ro. with the I.ecdirg Manu-
facturers r.f Great Britain and the Continent are of such a nature that they are enablrd to offer
Retail Customers the Choicest Productions at LESS THAN FORMER WHOLESALE PRICES.
In Cornice and Parterre Hangings,
ONES, LAWSON BROS, and CO. offer Noveltks, of the Richest Description, at Astonishingly
Low Pricis, bringing these elegant Appointments withm the reach of those hitherto precluded, by
reason of great cost ,trom enjoying such Useful Adjuncts to Reception and Drawing Rooms.
Apartments have been specially fitted up In their extensive range of premises for the guidance of
those about to furnish, various styles being adopted, from which the most fastidious can select.
MANSIONS FURNISHED
the Shortest Notice, and in the Most Elaborate and Tasteful Manner, by contract or otherwise, and
Dwellings of every description fitted up for the reception cf Intending occupants.
Specialities : Carpets, Hangings, and Art Furniture.
Carriage and Public Entrance: Castlereagh-streat-
Warehouse and Stores : Hoskins Place-
HORDERN'S
ON THB
Bxiclsifleld. 231111-
DUE STAY AND GDBSLT DEPARTMENT.
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Free oe Charge.
/c
C. D
V.V
!
M
•'O
uO
ft
n
a
11
Nursing and Riding Stays.
Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE. AND SPOON BUSKS),
2s. lid., 3s 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4s. lid., ss. 6d., 6a. 6d., 7s. Gd., Bs. 6d., 9a. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12s 6d
EDWAfD HORDES'I AND SONS, 666 and 668 Brickfield Hill.
N.B.— Orders from the Country will receive Immediate and careful attention.


NIBBLES VERSUS TIPPLES.
(A FISHING EXPERIENCE OF FOUR HOURS’ DURATION.)
THE JUDGE.
Ask for the celebrated Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Aooepfc nothing else under any consideration.
TIME IS MONEY.
Time and money will Ve saved by keeying Dr.
Bell’s Bitters in the house. It is an invaluable
reme ly for all disorders of the kidneyp, liver and
bowels, and for all diseases arising from obstruc-
tions of these organs Ithas cured many obstinate
oases after hundreds of pounds had been paid to
physicians without obtaining relief. It cures con-
stipation. piles, biliousness, and all kindred dis-
orders Keep it by you.
Butler W. Ormonde, Private Enquiry
Agent, 313 George-street, undertakes all kinds of
confidential business, traces absconders, wife
deserters, and missing relatives ; procures copies
of certifioates and wills, at moderate rates. Col-
ector of rents and debts Acts *s agent generally.
Letters written. The most absolute secrecy ob-
served. Note the address 313 George-street,
second floor.*
Fat People.— A new English Medicine,
healthful and harmless; reducfsfromsto7pounds
weight weekly. Dr. F. C. Ru'seU’s English Cure
for Corpulency, a Perfectly Harmless Medicine,
reducing Pat and curing Corpulency, acting
rpecially on the Liver and Kidneys, and meeting
with most wonderful success in England acd the
Coloniep. Must not be confounded with any of the
so-called Anti-fats. This Medicine i* packed in
oases »nd sold at reduced prices (double strength),
with compli te inftrucMons and directions. Send
for circular for Stout Persons. Elliott Bros., and
all chemists.
For the sake of your health accept only Wolfe's
Schnapps— lt is the only genuine Schnapps.
Wolfb’s Schnapps— lt stands [alone like
the one Alexander without a rival.
BM’LY AND THE M.P.
“ These are mine,” said an old gontleman, enter-
ing 0"e of the hotels near Circular Quay. “All
right,” said Emily, the barmaid. ‘‘Just be careful
not to charge me with them twice.” “That is
something I never do,” sa’d Emily. “You had
better not overcharge me, because I keep all the
drinks in my head.” “I k'ew that before you
ssoke. Are you a member of Parliament?” “Yes.”
“ Anyone can tell that .j nst by looking at you. If
all the members would stick to Anheuser Busc i
St. Louis Lager Beer and drink nothing else they
would have a clear head and do more business for
the country.”
Clergymen, Lawyers, Editors, Bankers
and Ladies need American Hop Bitters daily, for
nerve force. Read
The Great Northern Hotel, Charlotte-
place and George street, is unapproachable for
cheapness, combined with good quality. The
motto is—Small profits and quick returns.*
A THANKFUL MOTHER.
“ If the gratitude of a sensitive young girl,” writes
a thankful mother, "can afford you pleasure, you
have that of my daughter to its fullest extent.
She was our hope and pride, crushed to earth with
a disfiguring scrofulous skin humor, which has
been completely cured, atter endless doctoring
and great suffering, both in mind and body, by the
CuTictJßi Resolvent, internally, and the
Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the great skin
cuies and beautiflers, externally. Her skin is now
as soft, white, and beautiful as a baby’s.’,
Exercise and a judicious use of Wo'fe’e Schnapps
will keep you in the best of health.
asd
fasd
fa
sdf
asdf
FOR RENEWING PICTURE FRAMES, &c., &c.
FOR ARTISTIC DECORATION.
1/6 & 3/6 per bottle. Sold by Chemists, Stationers, Storekeepers, &c., &c.
DANIEL JUDSON & SON (LIMITED), London and Nov York.
asd
Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
1
Jor
Scrofula on Necfc.
PI M PLES to SC ROFU LA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, .Simply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cutic-ura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
dailyj with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
wifi speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Bcalpj when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored .Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors ; have had the best phy-
sicians ; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured pie, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
It. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretie, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared et the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
(Established 1800),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &c., from the Southern
Colonies or New Zealand, may he made to Arthur
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
Her Majesty the Queen,
H.R.H. ifi9 Prince of IVaies.
H.M. the King of the Netherlands.
fas
H.I.M. the Czar of Russia.
Agents for New South Wales j
TRAPP & ELLES,
54 MARBARET STREET, SYDNEY.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Ttc-
Doloreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTIIAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary ! In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, hut strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
531 George-street, only.
C. LOUGHNAN,
Importer, Manufacturer, & Wholesale Dealer in
TOBAGCOB, CIGARS, CIGARETTEB,
And TOBACCONISTS’ GOODS.
The Largest Stock of above in South Sydney to
select from.
Manufacturer of the undermentioned Registered
Cigarettes “ Lord Carrington,” “ Our Boys,”
‘‘All Nations.” “Prince imperial,” “Our Girls,”
Boston Bride,” and our “ Soudan Boy.”
Tobaccos— “ Boston Navy,” “Prince Imperial,”
“Soudan Navy.”
Sole Agent for
PARNELL’B HOME RULE NAVY TOBACCO.
A large supply received in stock. Each plug a
reasonable week’s supply. Price 6d.
Warehouse and Stores:
639 and 714 GEORGE STREET,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
Dr. E. C. West’s Nerve and Brain Treatment, a
guaranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions,
Fits, Nervous Neuralgia, Headache, Nervous Prostration
caused by the use of alcohol or tobacco. Wakefulness,
Mental Depression, Softening of the Brain resulting in
insanity and leading to misery, decay, and death, Premature
Old Age, Barrenness, Loss of Power in either sex, Involun-
tary Losses and Spermatorrhoea caused by over-exertion of
the brain, self-abuse or over-indulgence. Each box contains
one month’s treatment. ss. a,box, or six boxes for 255., sent
by mail prepaid on receipt of price. We Guarantee Six
Boxes to Cure any Case. With each order received by
us for six boxes, accompanied with 255., we will send the
purchaser our written guarantee to refund the money if the
treatment does not effect a cure. Guarantees issued only by
JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
65 MARKET SEREET, SYDNEY,
Circular sent free on application.
,£lOO Reward!
We will pay the above reward for any case of liver com
plaint, dyspepsia, sick headache, indigestion, constipation or
costiveness, we cannot cure with West’s Vegetable Liver
Pills, when the directions are strictly complied with. They
are purely vegetable, and never fail to give satisfaction'
Large boxes, containing 30 sugar-coated pills, Is. For sale
by all druggists. Beware of counterfeits and imitations.
The genuine manufactured only by
JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
65 Market-street Sydney, N.S.W.
Sent Prepaid by post on receipt of Is. per box in stamps.
■WWW
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMENT.
Infallible remedy for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
Gout, Sprains, Cuts, Burns, Scalds, Bruises, Headache,
Mumps, Hip Disease, White Swelling, Felons, Chilblains,
Whitlows, Chapped Hands, Frozen Feet, Bites of Insects,
Sore Throat, and all diseases requiring external application.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers.
Price, Is. and 2». per Bottle.
JOHN C. WEST & CO., Sole Proprietors,
SYDNEY. CHICAGO, and
TORONTO.
GOOD NEWS FOR THE MUSIC
LOVING PUBLIC.
A BRANCH OP THE
m
DIRECT SUPPLY ASSOCIATION
Is NOW OPEN at
674 GEORGE-BT., SYDNEY,
With the Large&t Stock of Musical Instruments in
the Southern Hemisphere,
AT LONDON PRICtfS, SO per cent, less than
Sydney prices,
Direct frcm the European manufacturers to
tne Australian consumer.
4/6, S/6, 7/0, »/«. 12/6, 17/0, 21/-, 25 ,80/.
45/, to £2O.
Specialty: The German-Anglo, in wood box, 21/-
„ Ditto, superior, with steel noteß, 35/*
ABCORDEONB
cpeoiatty : The miniature Melodian, 21/.
Ditto, oak, with steel notes, 42/-.
o
IW4B. 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to *2O.
Speciattr- Old Copy Violin, with case, bow and
Instruction book, 35/-.
BOKNETS, ** 4# - B »& - ,so/ -
sSpeolalties : The new “ Levy ” model,
with water key £5 5 0
„ The new “ Reynolds” model, _
with double water key .. 910 0
The new “Keynolcfs” Echo-
attachment Cornet .. 12 10 0
From 1/6 to £lO.
About 100 varieties in stock.
Sneolalty : The 8-key Cocoa D Concert Flute,
with slide-head, ia case, by
beat English maker «V*
THE! SYMPHONETTE!
In ni 'efeul't&ver, with six tunes, 30/-.
jEjetaa tunes, 1/- each.
i l
Fri im S/8 ‘edfc’n to £lO.
The " Walter Ho r<wd ” American Nickel Banjo.
£8 3s.
dr* Bras 3 and r rum and Fife Bands furnished
throughout. Neg ro Minstrel Troupes fitted out.
Clarionets. Violin Strin«rs aDd Fittings, Blsgeolets,
Drums. Guitars. I flaruaonksons, Tambourines,
and, in fact, s ** assortment of every c.s»s
of Music at Instrument, from a
ta’slrp to aMiJr jm
All instruments earetuliy packed and forwarded
to aay part of the je*il®nies.
LQUIIf SIMONSEN,
MANAGER.


THE CRITICS OF BISMARCK.
PROPRIETOR OF BILLYRAMBIJA RECORDER (to editor, canvasser, comp., accountant, and
steam-power) "WELL BLOGGS WHAT'S THE LEADER TO BE THIS WEEK?"
E.C.C.A. AND S.P. “I HARDLY KNOW YET. SEE WE ROUSED UP SUBSCIBERS
LAST AND SLATED GLADSTONE THE WEEK APORE ; I S’POSE WE’LL HAVE TO
FALL BACK ON BISHAHCK AND THE HEASTERN QUESTION—UNLESS THAT
CIRCUS COMES IN TIME.”
A problem: why people drink any other spirit
when, they can obtain Wolfe s Schnapps.
To Fat People-Dr, Russell’s English
Care for Corpulency, redness from o to 7 pounds
weekly. Reduc ?s from sto 7pounds weefely. For
Corpulency. For Corpulency. Eaglish Cure, Dr.
Russell’s. Eaglish Cure, Dr. Russell s. In c»neB at
Reduced Prices., Corpulency oan be Cured. Elliott
Bros., and all chemists.
Amerioan Co.’s Hop Bitters has restored
to sobriety and health perfect wrecks from in-
temperance. Peruse all
Premier ball-room deoorators of New
South Wales. Sale and Dare, decorators. Ball
and banquet rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral, decorations, oO>4 Hunter-street
Sydney.*
Why do you drink Wolfe’s Schnapps? Because
I know from experience it does me good.
It used to be customary to send judges for
the High Courts of Calcutta out from England, and,
of course, they knew no Hindostani. One of them
was instructing an interpreter to tell a murderer
(atmut to be condemned) “to make bis peace with
God, that he was found by a jury guilty of a crime
amje detestable to white and black men, that no
hone of mercy csuld be held out, &c., &<h, and
mav the Lord* have mercy on his soul. Tbis is
what the interpreter said: “Sano Boor. nundara
toriir fansi ho^^f&• ,, —(** Listen, pi?* on the loth there
will be hanging.’’) The judge remarked that the
vernacular was a very comprehensive language.
Marie Brizardl
Re-establish and restore the body by the per-
sistent use of Wolfe's Schnapps.
Marie Brizardl
A generous use of Wolfe's Schnapps will impar-
strength and invigorate tbe body.
WILLIAM FLEMING.
22 & U CLARENCE STREET, BYDNIY
FLEMINS’S
RELIABLE
mm.
FIRST GRADE,
STYLE,
DUALITY,
and
FINISH.
USED by ALL the
Leading Citizens.
NOT HOW CHEAP,
BUT HOW GOOD I
*
m
FLEMING’S
WAGGONS
and
Harness,
[Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Call andlnspeet.
df
A GUARANTEE with
each pipe for real
Meerschaum and
Amber.
Fire-proof Briars. BepairSi &o.
S. B.OBENTJIAL, Pipemakei,
1 Liltle Collins-strect, East, Melbourne.
Illustrated Catalogues on application
rpHE CLIMAX OF PERFECTION!
MONTSERRAT
LIME FRUIT JUICE SAUCE.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
ENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES REPAIRED
AND CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Near Market-street.
, ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
v fragrance.
Three Gold Medals—
PAMS,IB7B; CALCUTTA, 1881,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson's Newest Perfumes
FAGIUEA & CY-MEIDIUM
I are of rare and peculiar fragrance, ana being
i registered can be obtained only of the
1 6 Inventors or their Agents.
ATKINSON’S
CELEBRATED EATJ DECOLOGNE
• is unequalled for its strength and acligntiui
J odour. It far surpasses the numerous com-
pounds sold under the same name
ATKINSON S FLORIDA WATER
an exceptionally fine pci lume foi the nana
i kerchief, distilled from the choicest exotics.
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacture* s
1 1 J. * E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Pond Street, London.
. Trade Mark-“ White ltose” on “ Golden
Lyre."
IVTERVOUSNESS, LOSS of ENERGY and
l\ STRENGTH.—A Gentleman, having tried in
vain every advertised remedy, and discovered a
simple means of cure, will bo happy to forward
particulars to sufferers on receipt of stamped
directed envelope. „ ” M
Address— “ Confidential, G.l .0., Sydney.
ORaAITS !
bole agents eor the
“ SMITH.”
BRUCE'4 MASSEY,
nuns, dm, mic.
197 PUt-st .'^Sydney.
OFFORD & CO.’S HATS
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
Next to Eoyal Hotel, and at 652 George Street.
CE
SAUCB
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Perrins
have to request \that Purchasers see that the Label on every bottle
bears their Signature thus —■
ivithout which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask foi LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester■; Crosseand
Blackwell, London, frc., drV. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the IP or Id.
Wholesale Agents : Montefiore, Joseph & Co.; David Cohen & Co., Sydney.
asd
The "LOUIS’*
'* VELVETEEN.
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes and
Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact
for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
may be used we specially recommend
the “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of “ Louis.”
May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
send patterns
POST free on
application.
immy
all the most
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS.
American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
Ml MEMO.
27 YORK STREET,
'.SYDHST.'
iU
SPECIALLY IMPORTED FOR CITY OR COUNTRY USB.
the old established
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
STERLING QUALITY,
A 1
LOWEST PRICES.
MOV CQ
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
0T EYBJ&r YEHIOLB GCAJBiNTBBD


AN EXCUSABLE MISTAKE.
Natural Mistake of Mr. Jones at the Pidture Gallery.
FLIEGENDE BLATTER
An entirely new fashion was set at a
recent marriage, the wedding-breakfast having
been given at the home which had been furnished
for the couple. After the wedding-
breakfast the company drove off to the house of
the bride’s parents, leaving the happy pair you
know.
Ask your medical attendant w|jat*he thinks of
Wolfe’B Schnapps as a tonic and stimulant.
Marie Brizardl
Call for Wolfe’s Schnapps. It is the only
genuine brand. Be certain you get Wolfe’s.
Love is the greatest of human affections
and ij fraquently tfce sequenca of friendihlp, and
the sequence of Love is matrimony, and the ac-
companiment of matrimony is home-making, and
home-making is a-Piste 1 by Bray Bros , the earth-
enware, china and glass people, whose goods
ornament many bright and happy homes ia the
colony. 1 heir address is four hundred and two
and fiur hundred and four George-street.*
By the use of that admirable stimulant, Wdlfe’s
Schnapps, your lives will be lengthened.
The Evening News’ London correspondent
telegraphs that “ Gladstone’s lryalty Is brglnning
to bo doubted by many who have hitherto sup-
ported him.” For our own part, we have sus-
pected bis “ loyalty” all along. We always thought
the Grand Old Man was much too independent a
character to grovel at the feet of Battenberg s
mother-in-law, or to worship at the shrine of tte
departed John Brown.
Marie Brlzardl
Wolfe'B Schnapps is the best remedial agent-
known throughout the world.
Dear lore, sweet sings the evening breeze,
(Still Summer field is selling,)
And whispers to the trembling trees ;
(Suits in their fit excelling.)
A gentle peace pervades the grove,
(Those suits you ought to try them!)
The very song-birds sing of love.
(To see them is to buy them.)
Dear love, 5 our eyes are stars to me,
Tin ir shade of blue the deepest
(Just go to Summerfield for pants.
If you would get the cheapest.)
The Blue Ribbon Army have pirated the colourof
Wolfe'B Schnapps Trade Mark.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
OWING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
.Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, fee.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blaoksmithing,
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
BOULTON’S "FLUSH-OUT,” "VALVB.” & “PAN” CLOSBTS, "VACUUM” WATBR-WASTE
PBEVBNTBBS, &o.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, Ac.
BOH ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 8 Macquarie Places, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application.
B
obbbt bdtohbb & 0.0
(Late William Long),
gp- WINK AND SPIRIT MERCHANT
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
RAW VASELINE.
m.
A
m
HORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
Collar Check and Serge, 40 and 44 inches ;
Large assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladies’ and
Gentiemen’s Saddles, Spurs, and all kinds of
Saddlers’ Ironmongery, &c.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS, AND SADDLERS
IRONMONGERS,
125 YORK ST., SYDNEY.
wr >rHE NEW SOUTH LBS PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED.,
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows: S r VKN PER CENTon
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT.
andOT WARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT on sums from £1 to £soin the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
J. V. WAHEHAM, Manager.
Narrow Escape.
** * Rochester, June 1, 1882. “ Ten Years
ago 1 was attacked with tne most Intense and
deathly paisa In my back &nd—Kidney*
“ Extending to the end ef my toes and to
my brain !
“ Which made me delirious!
“From agony ! ! ! !
“ It took three men to hold me on my bed
at times !
“The Dectors tried in vain to relieve me,
but to no purpose.
Morphine and other opiates !
“ Had no effect!
“ After two months I was given up to
die ! ! ! !
“ Wnen my wife
heard a neighbour tell what Hop Bitters had
done for her . she at once got and gave me
some. The first dose eased my brain and
seamed to go huatiDg through my system
for the pain.
The second dose eased me so much that I slept
two hours Sometbiog I had not done for two
months. Before I bad used five bottles, I was well
and at wrxk as hard as any man oouJd, for over
three weeks; but I worked too hard for my
st.engtb, ana taken a bard coll, I was taken with
the most acute and painful rheumatism all through
my system that was ever known.
“I called the doctors again, and after severa,
wepks they left me a cripple cn crutebei for lltel
as they said. I met a Iriend and told him my case,
and he 3aid Hop Bitters had cured him and would
cure me. I coohed at him, but he was so earnest
1 was induced to use them again.
In less than four weeks I threw away my crutches
aDd went to work lightly and ki pt on using the
Dittera for five weeks, until I became as we 1 as
any man living, and have been so for six years
sioce.
It has also cured my wife, who had been
sick for years; and has kept her and my
children well and healthy with from two to
three bottles a year. There is no need to be
sick at all if Uese bitters are used.
J. J. Beek, Ex-Supervisor.
“ That poor invalid wife, Sister, Mother,
“ Or daughter ! ! ! !
“ Can be made the picture of health !
with a few bottles of Hop Bitters !
“ Will you let them suffer!!!!”
Prosecute the Swindlers !!
If when you call fc r American Hop Bitters (see
green twig of Hops on the white label and Dr. Soule's
name bhwn in the bottle ) the vendor hands cut
anything but American Hop Bitters refuse it and
shun that vendor as you would a viper; and if he
has taken your money for anything else indict him
fortbelraud and sue him tor damages for the
swindle, and we will pay you liberally for the con-
viction.
Never Travel Without It:
Wanted in Every House.
fasd
FLEAS. FLIES. BEETLES
COCKROACHES.VrSA 1 : AND
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESSTO BIRDS
FOWLS OR OTHER S®'
ANIMALS .3#
12 ' '
IS
m
A
P
fa
SOL'D
TINS'
PbyAUCHEIVIISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS
WHOLESALE |
FELTON<GRIMWADE.ttC°
MELBOURNE
Wanted in Every House.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
ctU
VP
4?
PATENT
a
puls
sK
£
Are admitted by thou-
sands, to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such .as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headaehe, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &c. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
done it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
they will he acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For femal.es of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few dos'es of them carry off all gross humours,
open, all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEECHAM’S
PILES for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the system. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to seund and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &e., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
gfflicted with the above distressing and, when u-eg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Beecham’s
Cough Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time he
removed.
Caution". —The public are requested to notice that
the words “ Beecham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. lid- and 2s. 9d.
each. —Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
The New Furniture and
Carpet Warehouse.
Joses, Lina Ins., s Co.,
39 CABTLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
AT
Less than English Prices.
BIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
With three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING ROOMS,
At the Exceeding.y Low Price of £5 15s.
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER BUITES,
At Correspondingly Low Prices.
Furniture for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY.
THE DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING-ROOM.
BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEADS,
in Great Variety.
JONES, LAWSON BROS., & CO.
39 CASTLEREAGH BTRERT,
FREE BY POST, for six penny stamps, a
Medical Treatise, by that eminent French
Hospital Physican and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Man
hood, &c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address Parisian, P.O, Box 766, Sydney,
.
LIMITED,
356 Goorgo-otreot,
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
PIANOS, OBQANB
and
XUB I 0
best makers, lowest prices
EASY TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed.^
Catalogues & Prices on Applloation.
W. H. PALING & Co.
SS6 BeorgC'itreet, Sydney.
BOOKS. BOOKS. BOOKS.
Bought, Sold, or Exchanged
AAA VOLUMES New and Secondhand
OjUUU Books always on view at
WILLIAM DYMOCK’S
BOOK ARCADE, 208 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Catalogues post free.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
WILLIAM BULLARD'S GREAT SALE OF
MUsIO, (STATIONERY, and FANCY
GOODS. Expiration of Lease, and Condemnation
of Premises. Continued Great Sale of Music,
Stationery Books, Fancy Goods, including the
most extraordinary collection of the choicest
Japanese Works of Arts, Plaques, Bowls, Cloisonni
Vases, &c., the whole of which must be cleared
out. Discount 25 ver cent, reduction on the old
prices Music.—Thirty shillings worth of m' sio at
the old prices can now be had for One Pound. This
grand stock comprises, amongst otner items,
Sheet Music, SoDgs, Solos, and Duets
Piano Pieces, Solos, and Duets, and all the newest
and most popular Dance Music
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &o.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Braes Band Music, in variety
Book Music-all the most popular works
BOOKS comprise every kind of Literature—Pre-
sentation Volumes, in prose and verse ; Books,
suitable for prizes for boys and girls; Nautical
Works, Books on Engineering and Surveying,
Dictionaries, &e.; and a ehoice library of Reli-
gious works, by standard authors.
JAPANESE BRONZES, Wall Hangings. Em-
broideries, Vases, Plaques, Fans, Ash Trays,
And Tgs Trays
PHOTO. ALBUMS in Plush, Morocco, Leather,
and Calf, profusely illustrated, all sizes, at
wonderfully low prices
ACCOUNT BOOKS, Ledgers, Day and Cash Books;
Press Copying Books in every style and bind-
ing, or made to order
LETIuR PAPER, Envelopes, the cheapest in
Sydney. Samples and prices may be obtained
on application.
HANDBAGS, Purses, Card Cases, Photo. Frames,
of every kind and description
ARTISTS’ MATERIALS-Solid Sketch Blocks,
Drawing Copies, Paint Boxes, Mathematical
Instruments, &c.
Music Catalogues gratis on application.
Goods forwarded on receipt of money order or
postage stamps.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
843 GEORGE STREET.


THE HONEY-MOONERS.
HE: "NO, MY DARLING, NOTHING BUT DEATH CAN SEPARATE US"
SHE: "NO. LOVE. NOTHING BU[?] DEATH-THAT IS UNLESS THEY PASSTHAT HORRID
DIVORCE BILL.”
Marie Brizard!
Wolfe'B Schnapps Is an article of superior merit,
therefor© ask for it, and accept nothing* else.
Some take their pleasure o'er their pipe,
Some love the wine-cup’s ruddy glow;
But all who’d highest joys partake.
Earth’s very ohiefest joy would know,
Should see the champion cutter wield
The shears for Messrs. Summcrfleld.*
Many ladies are reluctant about buying
the best of crockery because of the alleged care-
lessness of their helps, and not a few Sydney
ladies insist on their best glass and china being
washed in their presence in the dining-room.
Some very beautiful sets for banquets, tea, dinner
or socialities are now to be had at Messrs. Bray
Bros , the renowned earthenware and china im-
porters, 402 and 404 George-street.*
Marie BrizardJ
Marie Brlzard l
The cures consummated by Wolfe s Schnapps
tell their own story and plead tneir own cause.
“ We want the land,” great Parnell cries,
“ We want Home Rule to boot;
“And next you'll want,” said Summe. held,
“ A tiptop winter suit.”*
Use your intelligence and buy only Wolfe s
Schnapps.
How to IGet Thin.-Remedy Perfectly
Healthful an 3 Harmless. Dr. F;C. Russel) « English
_ it LIU JLLttJ UUCCD. xy*. x • * _
Cure for Gorpu'ency, reducesfromji TO
week'y. To
/or Fat "People.’ For Fat People. In
cases at reduced prices. Elliott Bros., and all
chemists.
Wolfe's Schnapps has been 40 years before the
publio.
Marie Brizard!
c» r
s
- i
sdf
asd
' r
shoe Bazaar
Ceorg eS t J)
late PeaJ:e anPL flgrcvurb SYDMEV _
Carnrick’s Cod Liver Oil & Milk
PEPTONISED (DIGESTED.) ..
Highly recommended by the Medical Profession throughout the world as being
the best remedy for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, Scrofula, Wasting
Diseases, Consumption, General Debility, over-taxed brains, &c., &c.
It will produce an immediate gain in flesh and* strength.
Can be taken when all other forms of Cod Liver Oil are refused.
It contains about equal parts of tho best Norwegian Cod Liver Oil and concen-
trated fresh rpilk, both peptonised (digested).
The peptonised milk disguises the unpleasant taste and smell of the oil,, and
makes it as sweet as cream; very palatable and most nourishing.
Invaluable for children, and will agree with the most delicate persons, causing
no return or unpleasantness.
One trial will satisfy anyone of the great value of this new and unique pre-
paration. • _ . ,
The reconstructive or nutritive properties are five times greater than the
plain oil or anv other Emulsion, hence it is much cheaper.
Both the Oil and the Milk being digested, the whole will assimilate, whereas
in Cod Liver Oil and other Emulsions (being undigested) only a small
proportion is of any value. It is the most nerfect Emulsion ever
made, and the only one of digested Cod Liver Oil and Milk.
Analysed and recommended by the first Professors in Europe.
We also manufacture the above preparation combined with Hypophosphites
of Lime and Soda. SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIM., LONDON.
Important to Mothers&Nurses
Carnrick’s Soluble Food for Infants, Invalids,
and Aged Persons, is the most nutritious, palatable, and easily-digested Infant’s
Food ever manufactured, containing fifty per cent, of the solids of milk (digested),
and fifty per cent, of the finest wheat, converted into soluble form.
A most perfect food. The nearest approach to Mother’s Milk ever made.
It is unequalled for the formation of fat, flesh, and bone, ana increasing
the vital forces so necessary to health.
Specially recommended in cases of Marasmus, Diarrhoea, and Cholera
Infantum, and where the digestion is defective.
Children fed upon cereals or cow’s milk alone very often remain weak, and
suffer from softening of the bones, and when attacked by infantile dis-
orders are unable to resist the inroads of disease.
“CARNRICK’S SOLUBLE FOOD” is invaluable for Invalids
and Aged Persons (who cannot digest farinaceous food), as it is rich
in nutritive and easily-digested albumenoids, thus increasing both flesh
and strength, and restoring the vital forces.
It is most convenient for use,being in a powdered form, and will keep indefinitely.
When boiled and stirred for three minutes it is ready for immediate use.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS. 4.
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING- CO., LIMITED, LONDON.
PAUL LIEBE
MICHLY j^KOMMEWM
BYTHEMEDICAI
-
rf#i
!ul
fasd
•ffi
ns
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO is the best, purest
and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious tor polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; such
Rowlands' Odonto has always proved itself to be.
ROWLANDS BUKONIA is a beautifully
pure, del'cate, and fragrai t toilet l owder, and
has lately been much improved. Bach box has
inside the lid a certificate of purity from Dr.
Redwood, Ph D , F.O.S , &o. Sold in three tints .
white, rose, and cream.
ROWLAND*’ MACASSAR OIL can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden hairud children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
article®, of 30 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents—Elliot Bros
E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
D R RIDGE’S
FOOD
for INFANTS and INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
BR RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
T.ONPQN, ENGLAND.
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it w urn
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
Dacket Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E. Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge: Comet Co , Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
J. BUTTJBRFIEIiD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
Street, Redfern.
T.in G-I©SS
i^'bzals.arci’s
Fills
The Great Liver Remedy.
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from th«
Slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can te
thoroughly recommended, being a
pared preparation, and the result Practical er
Thflv overcome the worst iorm oi
diseases of the Ziver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys
Itave yet to hear that they have not afforded
(mm ediate relief.
434 GE RGE STREET.
fa
TRADE MARK-“ TONIC NERVINE.”
AbaFßj UKKTAIN, & SPEEDY OORKior Ner-
tous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
By its tonic soothing effects it at once
removes all craving for Alcohol. By its riohness
In phospnorous ana other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL'S TONIC NBRVINB nour-
and gives vigour the whole u/Ptem.
price, 4s. 6a., or 255. a casa Bold everywhere.
Proprietors. MARSHALL PEQTMJRfc. Registered
Chemists, 104-6 Marß.et-st., Bydney. NJl.—All imi-
tations illegal. TA&B NO SUBSTITUTE.
H
OLLO W A Y
PILLS.
A never-falling remedy in all Derangements of
the LIVER and STOMACH, they may be used with
perfect confidence by young and old.
Their world-wide fame for the last fifty years is
a guarantee of their efficacy. Thousands of testi-
monials, from princes to peasant®, attest their
marvellous virtues.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford st., London
kw- purchasers should loot to the Label on the
Boxes and Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-
street, London, they are spurious.
Kidney or Liver disease of some sort.
them.
*w k w SS? „f ill. * IEK W
=*■ s"? a sr
incurable. ,
are so difficult to cuie.
n>- RFLL'S (Kidney and I.iver Bitters) is a Speciflo
class of disorders.
J Sfflf
°'7*'
known to fail.
USE IT AT ONCE.
SoW by all Druggy and Dealeri in Patmt Mcdl '
NOTE.— Any poor Penn.",“„bS
for medicine.
BELL'S BITTERS
MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND & AUSTRALIA.
BOTCHER, FEHON 4 CO., SYDNEY
AGENTS FOR
New South Wales and Queensland.
He only infallible remedy for
i /ERybl/sJJEBILIJYT
THERE are many men in this colony who are,
day by day, melancholy, miserable, and a
burden to themselves, through early indiscretion
or over-indulgence. It is to those that this adver-
tisement is addressed. Impotence drags its victim
in its unhappy train through years of suffering,
rendering his existence a misery, he sees his
fellow beings hale, hearty, and vigorous—in the
full enjoyment of manhood’s greatest privilege -
and naturally becomes despondent, seeking soli-
tariness, and shunning society generally.
He is lured into trying some of the So-cauea
Remedies, but without avail, and imagines he
must go down to the grave a hopeles’ invalid. If
such be your calamity, know that your case can
berelievedand a Cure effected by a simple course
of this Invaluable 9l*dicine, which will, in the
short space of Four Weeks, render you capable
of appreciating and Enloylng Lilt'.
This valuable remedy affords relichand perma-
nently cures all who suffer from Wasting and
Withering of the Nervous and Muscular Tissues,
Spermatorrhoea, and all Urinary Deposits. which
cause incapacity and degeneracy, total and Partial
prostration, and every other exhaustive derange-
ment of the system-regenerating all the im-
portant elements of the human frame, and en-
abling man to fulfil bis most sacred obligations
The directions are very simple, and
restraint or hindrance from business. Pamphlets
enclosed in each case with testimonials-
In cases at 125., or four quantities in one, for 80S.,
if by coach, 2s. 6d. extra. City and suburbs free.
Agents for Sydney :
Messrs. W. BARCLAY & CO.,
43 Gotjlburn Street,
One door from George Street, South.
Parcels, packed securely, and free from obser-
vation, sent to any part of the colony on receipt
of Notes, P, st Office Order, or Postage Stamps,
with the greatest promptitude.
MOULTON S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN,
vn* best Iboto remedy for RHEUMATISM,
J. URALCfIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHAC 11,
RAINS- BRUISES a ’URNS- SCALD I, &c- and
aiken internally enree DIARRHCEA, n'ffSEfcA.,,*!! Y,
JRAMPSj €Q7JU g anffi all other mtbrns aches
ind pains-
Price, 2/- ioM Everywhere.
0. E. MOULTON,, sole propx-or,
MELBOUSNIi o'". DNEY,


Political
Points
Mulhall, in his book “ Progress of the
■World,” says America has added £1(35,000 000 to its
wealth annually duriog the last 35 years.
On dit that General Boulauger, French
War Minister, meditates overthrowing the Ite-
public and installing Comte de Paris as king.
IT Jaw-Bone Neild says that some of the
colonial beer is “ of very questionable quality and
does much harm.” Yes, it makes men talk a lot.
The Speaker of the N.S.W. Assembly has
ruled that the words “ political schemer ” are not
in order. Whole heaps of members now will miss
their proper designation.
BFA Sydney M.L.A. declared last week that
he had heard more nonsense during the debate on
the Customs Bill than he had listened to in all his
life before. Why, certainly. J. C. Neild spoke
for nine hours.
Labouchere. in commenting upon the use-
lessness of the English nobilitv in general, and of
most of the Knights of the Garter in particular,
p'easanily draws attention to the decoration of
Lord Fife, a thistle worn upon the bosom, and asks
if the earl has ever done as much service to the
world as a costermonger’s jackass.
Parkes’ unqualified support of Home Rule,
and his statement to the effect that he’s only
afraid Gladstone’s scheme doesn’t go far enough,
is described in the Sydney E. News as “ a diabolical
bid for political patronage.” And yet Parkes is
allowed to remain at the head of the spineless
band of miserables who form the now decimated
Orange faction in the NS. vV. Assembiy. Verily
the Orangemen like to be kicked and spat upon I
This epigram is from London Punch:—
“ LUCDS A NON LUCENDO.
“Loyal ? Nay, Ulster, you, for very shame,
Should cede your long monopoly of that name.
Loyal to whom—to what I To power, to pelf,
To place, to privilege, in a word, to self.
They who assume, absorb, control, eßjoy all,
Must find it vastly pleasant to be “ loyal.”
In the N.BW. Assembly last week, Mr.
Dibbs rose to order because Dan. O Connor had
been speaking for 20 minutes and had not touched
the subject. This was really very foolish of Mr.
Dibbs. No one who knows Dan. ever expects him
to touch the subject at all. How can he lower
himself to ad valorem duties while Dimasthinaise
is a character in history '( Mr. Dibbs is too ab-
surdly commercial to be a critic of “ orathry.”
The London Times, it is oabled, charac-
terises Gladstone’s election addresses in Scotland
as “senile.” Recently, when the G.O.M. was run-
ning the Irish Coercion Bill through the Com-
mons, the Thunderer described the People's Wil-
liam as “a man of extraordinary mental energy
for his years.” To paraphrase an old couplet:—
“ The Times cares not how great you be
If with the Times you don’t agree.”
The recent victory of the N.S.W. Govern-
ment over the ad valorem trouble seems to have
knocked several of the enemy even sillier than
they were before the battle. The “Jay nil” one,
for instance, declared that if he thought he would
have ever lived to see such a disastrous day he
would have died a hundred years ago; and Jaw-
bone Neild complains that “the Government have
a Bilent majority to support it, who, like dumb
sheep, applaud everything their leaders say or do.”
At the N.S.W. Burns Club’s last meeting,
a pleasant old gentleman named Telfer related
how in the early political days of Sydney “a man
who was a candidate for Parliament had a re-
quisition drawn up in his favor which, on exami-
nation, was found to contain the names from the
tombstones in the neighbouring churchyard.’’ No w-
a-days the people who lie under and are lied over
by tombstones don’t draw up Parliamentary re-
quisitions. But they vote at Parliamentary
elections.
The Melbourne Advocate thinks it is in-
advisable to allude by name to members of Parlia-
ment in the House, and points out that if an hon.
gentleman is simply described as the individual
who “was found guilty by a select committee of
taking money when a member and a Minister,” it
would answer all purposes. Unfortunately the
description is almost as vague as that of ‘ John
Jones, of Wales.” Even if people spoke of “ the
hon. member who was drunk last night,” or the
“gentleman who was kicked,” misunderstandings
might arise.
The believers in hereditary legislators
Would find their theory rudely jarred by a con-
templation of the two Parkes—father and Bon, in
the N.S.W. Assembly. The father a strong, fluent,
and vigorous speaker; the son a stammering,
illogical, and tiresome twaddler; the father a
statesman, the son a political duffer. There is as
much difference between them ss there is between
Brickhill's Baby and Professor Miller. Genius of
whatever kind is very seldom a heritage It is a
pity, though, that geniuses cannot transmit that
to their sons— they can seldom bequeath anythmg
else.
Newspapers all the world over are report
fug with considerable gusto how Herr Moet, the
German-American Socialist, was brought into
oourt “ handcuffed to a thief.” We have not the
honour of Herr Most's acquaintance, but as his
grievances seem mostly of a political character,
wo suspend judgment on him till the Millennium.
Apropos of the thief and handcuffs, by the bye, we
invested 63. the other day in an old copy of the
Beersheba Times, which was for sale at the Tract
Society's premises, and we came across an item
there about someone who was crucified some time
ago between two thieves. You can't judge a man
by the company he keeps under compulsion.
In an English suit, wherein the plaintiff,
Dr Pankhurst, claimed damages against a news
paper which published the report of an election
speech reflecting upon his character, Justice
Grantham, in summing up, said :—“The jury
would remember that they were not dealing with
the publication of a newspap?r in days when there
was ample time to carefully scrutinise every line
that appeared in it. It could not be said that the
publication of the full report of the speech could
do harm, because it had enabled Dr. Pankhurst to
know exactly what had been said, and gave him
an opportunity of denying it if he had thought
flt to do so ” Thus is the English libel law
ameliorated by common sense. We could do with
a Judge Grantham in N.S.W.
The policy o i the Jennings Government is
becoming a matter of considerable moment to our
Victorian friends. Of the two leading Melbourne
papers, the protectionist Age is in an especially
delicate position, whereas the Akgus can afford to
air its c nsistency by denouncing “those half-
hearted politicians who are justifying ad valorem
duties ” That these denunciations are genuine
can be inferred from the following extracts from
a recent paragraph in the same paper:-“ The im-
position of 5 per cent, ad valorem duties by the
N S W Parliament is very seriously affecting the
trade of Victoria with that colony in reference to
goods and boots and shoes. • . It is also
found that the N.S.W. merchants are now so
favourably handicapped that In several instances
Victorian merchants have had to withdraw tra-
vellers from the Riverina and outlying districts.”
Hence these Argus tears. It is a true Federal
grief, too. The “leading journal” bewails those
ad valorem duties on behalf both of N.S.W. and
Victoria. Especially the latter.
We hear that the seat for Canterbury in
the Commons, now held by Mr. Henniker HeatOD,
was offered to several other ambitious gentlemen,
who refused to accept it on account of a certain
just cause and impediment. In other words, their
means—c r their lavishness—were not equal to their
aspirations. It appears that the previous two or
three Conservative candidates who contested the
scat were unable to pay the reckoning, and the
consequence was a very heavy list of debts. The
story goes that at the late general election Canter-
bury was a certain Conservative seat if the pa> ty’s
debts were paid up, aed that the local Tory
authorities showed, in the first place at all events,
a strong disposition to stall off all candidates who
were not prepared to do the handsome thing—
which was a matter of £4OOO. Among those who
refused the tempting offer was Mr. Richards, the
barrister, who twice unsuccessfully opposed Brad-
laugh. Mr. Heaton was ultimately selected and
all his Australian friends can hope is that his
abilities were considered to be of so high an order
as to obviate the necessity of his “ parting.”
The aristocratic contempt which the
Sydney dailies and their appendant weeklies have
for the claims of labour is consistently shown in
their articles dealing with the so-called “shearers’
strike.” To call the existing difficulty with re-
gard to shearing a “strike” is in itself an injus-
tice. The men have not thrown up their work
nor have they broken any agreement. They have
simply refused to enter upon a contract to do
work at a less sum than they have in other years
received. At Dunlop station, where the strike is
said to have begun, the men had not started work.
They came prepared to shear for a certain price,
and when a less price was named in the agreement
they refused to sign. That was the extent of the
alleged “ strike.” We do not propose to deal with
the peoullar equities of the question beyond point-
ing out that the excuse of the squatters for mak-
ing the reductions was that wool had fallen, and
that the men should bear a portion of the loss of
profit, and that, wool having risen, the loss has
already decreased. Therefore, the squatters now
can hardly claim to get the resulting profit of the
rise out of the wool as well as out of the shearers.
They cannot expect to fleece the men and Bheep
together.
Thus Vanity Fair “In all probability
the Government will fall to obtain from the
House of Commons a renewal of the Arms Act in
Ireland. The Radicals have always been against
it ; the 86 Irish members will of course vote
against it; and these will now be reinforoed by
the Ulster Members, who, with their English and
Scotch sympathisers, will probably bring a
hundred votes. In view of this Act lapsing, many
inquiries are beiDg made at Birmingham and else-
where as to a quick delivery of rifles and other
arms. Every man and boy in the North of Ire-
land will be armed at once. Inquiries are also
being made for Gatling and Nordenfeldt guns,
and the Orange Party are preparing to torpedo all
their harbours as a protection against Gladstone’s
and Parnell’s gunboats, which may come North in
quest of taxes and rent which the boys of Ulster
will never pay to Parnell’s Parliament. The gar-
rison of Belfast is now composed of Scotch
soldiers, who certainly will not sympathise with
the Rapparees from the South. Lively times are
comiDg.” This'kind of brag seldom precedes any-
thing solid. It is very easy to advertise for 20,000
Eoflelds, but it requires a much higher heroism to
raise the money to pay for them.
“ Lord ” Wolseley has, it seems, not denied
that he said he would resign his commission to
lead the Ulster Orangemen; his disclaimer was
only to the effect that he had not publicly said
such a thing. Truth says it’s time Wolseley
should withdraw into private life—"he is just the
sort of tool whom a Court or a Conservative
Ministry would use for a coup-d’etat, and with his
swagger, his poor military performances, and his
greed to be rewarded for them, he always reminds
me of one of Napoleon’s coup d’ Hat generals. He
may be a safe man as regards our enemies, but he
is by no means a safe man as regards our civil
liberties.” Truth also prints a sarcastic review of
Wolseley's military achievements“ How humor-
ous, with its bit of pathos, too, is the scene at
Balmoral on the afternoon of Tel-el-Kebir, as de-
picted in your Queen’s * More Leaves.’ To the
Royal Family, palpitating with suspense, comes
Wolseley’s ruggedly truthful telegram. telliDg
how Arabi’s position was ‘most bravely stormed
by the Guards and Line,’ and how the Duke of
Connaught- [N.B.—Connaught never was in action
at all.— Ed. B]-‘behaved admirably, leading his
brigade to the attack.’ The women embrace, with
tears of pride and thankfulness. The retainers
gather around a table set with ‘ whisky and
glasses.’ Then the sublimated gillie steps from
behind his mistress’s chair and bellows for ‘ Three
cheers for the Duke of Connaught, the Hero of
Te!-el-Kebir 1’ To have produced this scene, even
at the expense of the derision of a nation and an
army,mustsurely be Wolseley’sproudest trophy.”
“ Anglo-Australian,” writing to the Syd-
ney E. News, evidently from an Orange lodge,
warns those concerned in the recent big Sydney
Home Rule meeting to repress their jubilation,
and tells them to remember that the success of
the affair was due to the “clemency” of the
OraDgemenand Co., who stayed away on the occa-
sion. “ Anglo-Australian ” then carefully pro-
ceeds to let the yellow cat out of the bag by
shrieking; “ Has anyone ever giveD it a thought
of what an Irish Parliament means? Why, it
means Roman Catholic ascendancy in Ireland!”
From an Australian standpoint, the Protestant
ascendancy system in Ireland, after a pretty long
trial, doesn’t seem to have been a wonderful suc-
cess. “Anglo-Australian's” threats as to what
Orangeism will da in the future don’t amount to
much. When the Irish agrarian question comes
to be settled up, as it must ultimately be, with a
strong Radical hand, the so-called loyalists of
Ulster won’t fight—they won’t even try to fight.
Those same “Loyalists,” when the Disestablish-
ment of the Irish Church Bill was brought in,
were, in the event of its passing, to rise in rebel-
lion and kick the Queen’s crown into the Boyne,
and generally smash all before them. Well, the
Church was disestablished, and those loud-
mouthed warriors did not even “ line a ditch,” nor
did they attempt to kick Her Majesty’s Crown.
They were quiet as lambs, and it will be just the
same when Home Rule comes along. Perhaps it
will be as well to remind people of the exact state
of the Ulster representation in the Parliament
just dissolved. Thirty-three members: IT Nation-
alists and 16 Conservatives. M‘Cartby was de-
feated in Derry City by 29 votes, and Mr. Sexton,
another Home Ruler, in West Belfast, by 36. If
we leave out Belfast and Derry, we find that rural
Ulßter returned to Parliament IT Nationalists and
11 Conservatives. These facts should be borne in
mind by those who blather about “Loyal Ulster.”
The municipalities of Melbourne and
suburbs are jumping at every convenient oppor-
tunity of overridißg the Factories and Shops
Act. This provided for the early closing of most
places of business, and was created in the special
interest of the feeble-bodied women and feeble-
minded men, co-classified as " drapers’ assistants.”
By accident, or design, the a.ct was loosely drawn
up. To th® municipalities is granted the power of
extending the hours of drudgery, upon the appli-
cation of a majority of shopkeepers in any par-
f ticular line. Perhaps it would be impossible to
spot any individual man more inimical to en-
lightened social legislation than the average coun-
cillor. A full council meeting, in fact, may be
described as the apotheosis of money-grubbiDg
and slave-driving. The very few broad-minded
oltizens who do aspire to what are satirically
termed “ civic honours,” usually get chivied out
of the charming circle by their gibing, jobbing
colleagues. In the hands of these petty despots,
then, it is not surprising that the Victorian Fac-
tories and Shops Act promises to become
a dead letter, unless the faint-hearted em-
ployees who make the money combine to
coerce the full-bodied gentlemen who spend it. In
the city of Melbourne proper the early-closing
clause was promptly suspended on the petition of
what claimed to be a majority of the master
drapers and clothiers. The councillors rubbed
their oily palms together, and granted permission
to these kindred spirits to keep open as long as
they liked on five days of the week and half as
long again on Saturdays. The majority,' cackled
the Argus, were groaning under the yoke of this
hateful Kadi cal act. However, a careful enquiry
into the matter has disclosed the faot that the
petition—eagerly accepted as an excuse for over-
working a few hundred men and girls—was not
signed by a majority of the employers. Something
less than 30 per cent- of them appended their names,
and of these names live were the creation of some
body’s brain. The worthy Mayor and his paunchy
satellites are now busily devising some means of
wriggling out of the present difficulty. With the
help of the Daity and the Argus they intend to
crush the aspiring shop-assistints, kerhum what
ma-a-y.
CORRESPONDENCE
[Qorrupondenti vsho aive neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munication! noticed. 1
“J. Bimp3on”t The old story—“ Agree
with your girl’s father In politics, and with her
mother in religion.”.... “ C. De Lissa”: “He is a
poor miserable creature. He whimpered for a
knighthood. The Mayor of Liverpool was
knighted the other day on account of having
brought a plum-bun or a seed-cake, or something,
to Princess Beatrice when she got married....
“D.A.”: Accepted, but held over "James
M’Laughlin ” (Armidale): It is true, as you say,
that “John Bright is against Home Rule.” But
his opinion is now worth nothing. His brain is
wrecked. We lately read in a Tory paper—Vanity
Pair, if we mistake not-that he had “ sadly lost
nerve-power of recent years,” and that “the
ordeal of addressing the House was too much
for him.” We don’t set any value on the
opinion of a man’s Remains, or on the poli-
tical views entertained by his corps a
“J.Farrell” (Burwood): Vide cartoon “Charles
Ashton”: It’s all very fine for you and all the
rest of the old mariners to boast that you sailed
your orafts in the good old days when lighthouses
were almost unknown on the Australian coasts,
and yet never lost a single life. But were you,
during the'said good old days, ever compelled to
work and tally cargo all day and steam all night ?
And did you, on arrival in port, after being with-
out sleep for a day and a night, often find that,
instead of being allowed a few hours’ muoh-
needed rest, you were, without notice, transferred
to a vessel with steam up and told that you would
have to either start right away in her or else risk
your hardly-earned chance of promotion—to say
nothing of forfeiting your billet altogether ?....
"J.W.”: We don’t know any certain cure for
corpulency. You might, however, try a diet of
vinegar and flies, or go to gaol as a vagrant for
three months...." C. Mackay ”: We don’t see why,
merely because the present dock isn’t big enough
to accommodate all the inebriates brought before
Sydney Central Court, some of the drunks should
be subjected to the indignity of being put into the
body of the court among the lawyers. Write to
the Attorney-General “ R.W.C.” : Thanks.
Lord Carington, we understand, is thoroughly
disgusted at the unseemly squabbling which has
taken place over the payment of his reception
expenses at various towns he has lately visited,
and he now wishes it to be known that he will de-
cline all invitations to banquets at the various up-
country cities of N.S.W. unless a receipt in full
from the caterer be in each case put upon his
plate before he begins to play his knife and fork.
“Dosey”: Thanks “ R.R.” : Bailey had
better send Sala at the same time that copy of the
Sunday News which contained a “full report of
the Cootamundra ecclesiastical seduction case’
Horrible revelations I ” “ W.O'C.”: Held over...
“ H.F.W.”: Excellent verse, but subject-matter
weak. Try to grip the butt-end of something
more important....“L. Rodway Correct verse
but commonplace....." Subscriber ” : We don’t
care a solitary dump who it was who paid so much
attention to a new love during the trial trip of the
Cumberoona....“Ceoil Poole”: Declined. MS.
returned by post " J.DR.” : Your emotion
transcends your metre “R. Murray”: You ask
if we know a way of telling rotten eggs. Telling
them what ? Perhaps you mean can we discover
when they are rotten. Rather, we stood for Par-
liament once "Danelow”: Thanks for cutting.
"ME.”: Now why could not you have left
that Ly-ee-Mooa bell alone? “Althea”: We
threw your comic sketch into the sea, and it
sank like a plummet " Subscriber ” (Auck-
land): The "loyalty” slush of the local Evening
Star is matched in Australia by oceans of similar
bosh “S.E.A.”: Held over. Will probably be
printed in an altered form "J.C.”: Thanks
“M. Marsden”: Thanks. We join with you in
heartily congratulating the Evening News upon
the cowardly way in which it has trimmed and
fenced upon the Irish question. We suppose,
however, that it has had to hedge on this
subject ou-. of deference to the political preju-
dices of Mr. Heaton, M.P. It wouldn’t look wel l
to see a man sitting on the Tory benches in the
Commons if you knew he was extensively partici-
pating in the profits of a straight-going Radical
paper “Dyn.” (Grafton): Next week "L
Guy”: Thanks. Wnat you say is true as gospel,
but to print it would cost £500,000,000 “T.A.C.”
(Middle Adelong) : Will consider "Tom Stan-
ley”: Glad to hear from you. Will deal with
matter...,." Constant Reader” (Charters Towers):
You’d better enquire in Rockhampton concerning
the exploits of Mr. Onflow Knight “A.J.S.”
(Glebe) : Some of them seem as stale as mummies,
but will look at them again “J.F.A”: Thanks.
Held over “ J, Reddan ”: Must stand over for a
week....!” W.R.R.”: Your poetry at 18 is not Al.
Try again at 28; or 81 “Thespis” (Mary-
borough): Thanks.
Marie Brizardl
JpUNCTUALITY THE SOUL OF BUSINESS
TIME ! TIME ! ! TIME II !
THE WONDERFUL WATERBURY;
or, the
CORRECT TIME FOR 133. 6d.
FACTS FOR
MERCHANTS, BANKERS. BUSINESS MEN
CLERKS, ARTISANS MINERS, BUSHMEN,
EVERYBODY.
nv>
tIL
|WATEI\BURX
SrlS FlfclfrflGAlM
The triumph of mechanical skill in the watch-
makers art has just received itslpremier exemplifl
cation by the new series of Waterbury watchee
which arrived by the Mariposa on Thursday last
During the past decade immense strides have beer
made in the direction of cheapening the cost o
horologlcal instruments of all discretions, al
though in a great many cases at the sacrifice Oi
their accuracy; but the idea of a really reliable
and durable watch for the mi lion, at a price withic
the reach of all, originated with and has been per-
fected by the Waterbury Watch Company, the
practical outcome of whese researches is shown in
their present improved "E” series of watches—
the fourth which th-3 development of modern
science, and their indomitable enterpise has let
them to i-sue within the past seven years. It if
not many years since the dream of a handsome
reliable watch which would record the flight oi
time with unerring accuracy, and which would at
1 time be obtainable for the comparatively
trifling sum of thirteen shillings and sixpence
would have been laughed at as thoroughly im-
practicable and U opian ; but to-day it is no
stretch of imagination but a solid imperishable
fact that the Waterbury ” has become synony-
th ® whole habitable world, with re-
liability, strength, and beauty, and a prime incen-
tive to punctuality in commercial, professional,
scholastic, and social life. In these high pressure
times, when the attention of thousands of think-
ing men is directed toward shortening the hours of
labour, and when the keenness of home and
foreign competition renders it of the utmost im-
portance to secure the greatest output of work
within the recognised hours of business, the pos-
session of a thoroughly reliable timekeeper en-
tirely ceases to be a fad, a convenience, or a badge
of respectibillty, but an absolute essential to suc-
cess. The man who misses his trains, trams, or
steamers; who neglects his appointments, or loses
track of his minutes; who regulates his actions
by a faulty, erratic watoh, soon finds himself left
out of the ride of prosperity, and never comes
within 000-ee of his successful ne'ghbor, the only
secret of whose success Is that he carries a Water-
bury, and lives “ on time.”
In an action for necessaries in the Supreme
Court of Great Briiain, it was long ago decided
that a gold watch was not a necessity.—A Water-
bury, price thirteen and sixpence, always shows
the correct time, which is after all the great de-
sideratum of a watcb, and a hundred guinea
jewelled movement cannot possibly do more,
although it often fails to do even that.
The clerk, the assistant, theartizan, the miner,
or the laborer, who is habitually late, soon gets
into bad repute, loses employment, or at least de-
stroys his chance of promotion; and the thread-
bare exouses, “ Didn’t know the time,” or “ Watch
was wrong,” are no longer tenable, seeing that the
value of a week’s lost time is frequently sufficient
to buy a Waterbury. Every man, womaa, and
child who desires to avoid or get rid of the annoy-
ance, uncertainty, and discomfort of carrying a
watch they cannot entirely depeod upon, should
purchase a Waterbury, even if they have to dis-
card their much more expensive but faithless ap-
pendages, as many of our bankers, merchants,
railway and Government officials, inspectors of
police, and railway contractors have already done.
Remember that the Waterbury is a keyless, stem
watcb, unequalled anywhere for accuracy and
reliability, and for the strength and beauty of its
finish; price, thirteen shillings and sixpence. In
this connection it may be well to utter a note of
warning. Although we aro producing 1000 watches
per day, or
313,003 WATCHES
a year, we have been so far totally unable
to keep pace with the demand, as the entire
absence of stock and cessation of advertis-
ing for the past three months amply testify;
and this circumstance has induced unscrupul-
ous imitators to flood the market with de-
cidedly inferior watches, which have been
offered as Waterburys, at much lower prims to
court sales- The reputation of the genuine
Waterbury is world-wide, and buyers should be-
ware of any watch offerei them by interested but
unfortunate dealers at any other than the regular
advertised price as a Waterbary, or Equal or
Nearly Equal to one.
These Watches can be obtained from:—Messrs
M‘Leaa Bros, and Rigg, George-street; Ilisley.
Doubleday, and Co., Market-street; Capper Bros ,
West Maitland ; Mason Bros.; Feldneim, Gotthelt
and Co.; L&zarus, Rosenfleld and Benjamin; L.
Saunders and Co.; T. Willis and Co., A. M'Artnur
and Co., M’Gregor, Harris and Co . George street ;
Plummer and Owen, George street ; Myers ana
Solomon, George street; Braby Bros., Castlereagl
street; and Walker, Lemon and Co.
WATERBURY WATCH COMPANY,
51, MARGARET-BTREET,
SYDNEY.
JpiIRE AND FURY.
Fire may mean the last wax match which has
wriggled away amongst the fluff into the farthest
corner of the lonely traveller s vest pocket, and on
which his sole dependence Is placed to get the pot
of tea he hankers after when his day’s journey is
done. Or it may mean the “ d sastrous confla-
gration ” caused ny the “devouring element” so
familiar to the readers of the daily papers. But
when the owner of the property comes home and
discovers that everythitg he had in the world has
bean burned to cinoeis, except a red-haired baby
and a three-legged dog. he sits down on the newest
heap of cold ashes and remembers that he might
have avoided the whole tribulation had he used
Snowflake” Oil instead of the low-test rubbish
he bought at auction, because it went cheap. Then
comes fit No. 3, accompaaied by verbal tornadoes
and acrobatic performances on hi a hat. That is
fury—the natural result of his own folly.
The wonderful “ Snowflake” Kerosene can now
be obtained from any of the following wholesale
or retail merchants :
Me srs. M’LBAN BRO 3. and RIGG
MASON BROS . Limited
M'GRBGOtt, HARRIS and CO.
G GORGE G RIFFITHS and CO.
T. W. KA.DT and SON
D. COHEN and CO.
POTTS and PAUL
HOLDSWORTH and CO.
E. BOTCHER.


Mar
y f M^®^T Thlß bran
+h &reat care from ta
iffil 2* the celebrated firm o
Dublla, and thereto*
SARSTON •▼erywho?-
—_BoteAgents L
Ss^fS^^'^roTK 0 * 1 ?
S^gaH^^'JSw&NSi
; t thfe beauti°n?n our own sets of pat
>r*JSST’toon of d.fr u* d ® t“ d daisbe J
‘made 11 ££ fioVh,
’ 9 C^ oann ot b6 S nl OUr homp buyer, an
, ST >i fs (l or kmadshin w ed ’ if equalled, 1,
p by auy house in tl
'^^ edF *ncy wf , OVE 4tCOATS, ext
S&M- y Wool or Italian Cloth, 31
ur x taiiHn Olotn* oi:
< w ercoat8 ’ in Molton
»- ftUCy W ™teds, 37s <*,33
am j 'Wl> d t , ' " <Jibteas, aid ea, ot
| r^4s C 42 b WithSXLK rl V F IGO ATS. LINE
flu’ll u- ’ 52s 6d: ditto COVEE
rV iu ai5 F an BAC SUITS, special
»«r Wolfe. Mixtures, Scot
'jfillLp u d8 ’ 32j 6d > 355, 435, 455, 51
SS: >etd Q eS : odats e K°fi application,
Vsf* 001 ana finished, I
.VE3IB'8 ' *“ ™KN or PIQU
.'Sit® l !. CKBT ’ ,m DENNIS ot LOUNC
pWHit F R pr 3 f NT PANT=I , in NA’V
Hh 13s 0d
®’S'r , ? S JtiS, Ce ‘“ c a
f a i l »vS , ,yiotk.AV 01 ’- wi
ii tKppif 60s, 5&, «o Alpacaa *
featw „ N ' li °Utest
COAT, YJ
COAT MA
all
*»* V «*»S s 3a.W’s T f r^r eeting ’ BuK «y R
MM Heae at CLOT H
K ■ Wear.styl
mßde of * ood Strong
»s%£V*' £ *“ Sf «
W 8 Ov*i,„ UITS > in pretty
t&’lw R 5.
fsSJS 55 *-^
«KS|iXlsi'te«in. r BM? l,e “
bdnks '‘“ blz '
, Btre et. W’ PEAPES, and S
"" Qeorge-strei
HAUTHAWAY’S
old RELIABLE
Peerless
fete*
.NJy
N a .
A necessity in e
fa n»ily. It blacks
polishes Ladies’
Children’s Boi
Shoes, Rubbers
Satchels, wit I
brushing. Alw
gives satisfaction,
??®9. Is conceded
STAHDAi
lJJrcss Street, liostf
mass., i
SffA/ £r //£jU£/rs; ££OCjE/?S s/rJ amme/srs.
Moßi
m
GE Oft
street
tM’
SHAPES
m
:-‘A
'£R
new
ESf
V ** de *ortDtlon nf
:v ?• Lnrir aMtmat
c > »*. ff ei'cantile and
r * c * lT * l *»
** W. um a roars r
The FOLLOWING GOODS
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Corn Paint, Is.
Asiatic Liniment, 2s.
That Modem Appetiser—The Australian Relish—ls
A. Boyer’s Baking Powder (free from alum), 6d.
Page’s Custard Powder, 4 in box, Is.—makes two
quarts fine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linotus, for eoughs, Is.
Clayton’s Nervine, for toothache and cold in the
gums, Is.
Dr. Barbarossa’s Cantharides and Russian Bear’s
Grease Oil, for covering bald patches and pro-
ducing whiskers, 2s. 61.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL Sc GO.,
177, 268 and 266 PITT STREET.
gIHE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER.
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY, EABE,
CONVENIENCE, ECONOMY.
taer the remington type-writer save*
labour, stationery, and time, writing much
faster than export penmen, and condensing mattei
to less than one-half the spaee occupied by pec
writing. Beautiful copies may be taken in the
usual manner in the letter-press. Merchants,
bankers, solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors,
reeorters, and all men of business should use the
type-writer, and save much valuable time.
Bold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY and CO.,
410 Kent-strfet.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1889.
N CORPORATE!) BT ACT Ol- PARLIAMENT, 1875
Paid-up Capital. A300.0W
Reserve Fund *166,000
Dubotors:
The Hon. Sir John .Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort. M.L.C.
George 8. Oalrd, Esq.
Hbn. Philip Gidley King, MJLO.
0. RoHeston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jm. B«roffffl«. Hsq.
H. K. Cohen, &gq.
tMinnuii
». A. A.
Ma.wagib
Wilson.
SBOBKABT-:
Hector Alien.
Branohm in N*w South Walk :
nymarket, Pyrraont, Kedfern, Goa ford, Nynjran,
Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonards, and
Newcastle.
Branch in Quhnsland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-Street.
DIRNOTORfI:
f
Geo. P. Slade, Baq.
Geo. H. Alexander, Baq.
uagbr : Geo. ]
Lokdow JBankkw:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Jinan
al Agency Business on the most favourable terms
Bills discounted daily.
Rills negotiated and advanoes made against Woo*
id other produce shipped to England for sale.
to Weak, Nervous Invalids, and Others Seekirg
Health, Strength, 2nd Energy.
DR. RICHARDS,
I M.A. Oxon,
M.R.C.S., Eng.
DESIRES to inform sufferers of both sexes that he
has permanently established himself in Sydney,
and_ may in future be consulted at his rooms, No.
Spring Street, FREE OF CHARGE by sufferers of
both sexes from Nervous and Physical Debility, Ex-
halted Vitality, Premature Decay, Pains in the Back,
Head or Chest, &c., &c.
I Cure ovory case undertaken.
When 1 say I Cure, I do hot mean merely stop them
for a time and then have them return again ; I mean
a radical, cure, I have made nervous and private dis-
eases a life-long study, arid can safely warrant a cure
in every case undertaken after a personal consultation.
Many persons, from the effects of youthful impru-
dence, have brought about a state of weakness that has
reduced the general system so much as to induce al-
most every other disease, and the real cause of this
disease scarcely ever being suspected, they have been
doctored for everything but the right one. Notwith-
standing the many valuable remedies that medical sci-
ence has produced for the relief of this class of patient,
none of the ordinary modes of treatment effect a cure.
During my extensive hospital and private practice in
England, I have discovered new and concentrated re-
medies, and with the use of my extensive Galvanic
Ai’PLiANdEs I am in a position to guarantee a cure in
every ease undertaken,
Consultation costs nothing, and I will tell you atf
once whether your case is curable or not.
DR. RICHARDS, M.R.C.S., ENC.,
No. *7 SPRING- ST., (off Pitt-sCcet north,)
SYDNEY.
T
MUSIC HATH CHARMS, &C.
HE ONIV HO IT SR IN SYDNEY
that makes a Speciality of
Ussslcal instruments.
Vio irs. Guitars, Banjos, Futes, AcoordioDS, Con-
oe»tlD88 and ttrii gs for al) Instruments.
Musical Instruments of all kinds Repaired.
FGOONOWSKI’g
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT WAREHOUSE,
"05 George-street, Sydney*
DR. BOYD,
POMEROY CHAMBERS, 39 CASTLEREAGH-8T
(Upstairs),
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
Registered Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours:
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. only,
Deformities, Nervous, and Female Disease! a
„ „ „ „ Specialty.
B9Z DO G.P.O.
asdf
REUTER’S LIFE SYRUP, No. 2.
A positive and radical cure for
every form of Scrofula, Syphilis
Scrofulous Sores, Affections of the
Skin and Scalp with loss of Hair
and all diseases of the Blood, Liver
and Kidneys. GUARANTEED to
purify, enrich, and vitalize the Blood
and restore and renovate the entire
system.
REUTER’S HEALING SOAP,
For the Bath, Toilet, Nursery an
the healing of skin diseases of
every kind and at every stage.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
S. Hoffnung & Co.
ART! riCIALTEETH
Complete SFT
MARSHALL BRO!
DENTISTS
3 ELI Z A BETH ST
o
4*
IF
-A
vV
V 5
PARRY & G*
MEW EXTRACT
BHHHHB ' of
&r
jw'
THE MARSOAPIAL V/EW OF HIM /
I
A*'
X
lV
<x
o'
,/v
>
<0
O
_*> *y
*■ *v Jr *
»°°VVVV v
Meters. S. HOFFNUNG & CO. t Agents.
asdf
G. B. BBODINI, Gunmaksr,
BEGS to announce to his patrons and the public
that he has received, by late arrivals, one of
the largest and best selections of
FIREARMS
seen in Sydney. The latest improvements Till
Breach and Muzzle-loading Guns, Rifles, Revolvers*
&c. Agent for the following celebrated London
Manufacturers : T. Purdy and Sons, John Rigby
and Co., Joseph Lang and Bon. Cbas. Osborne atad
Co., T. Bland and Son ; also, Bussey and Co., who
manufacture all kinds of Sportsmen’s Require-
ments for the field. A large assortment of other
celebrated makers’ stock on band from Webey,
Ri ey, Scott, &c, and the best Contlbeotal and
American makers. A choice and complete stock
of Cutlery. Field and Marine Glasses, and Sports-
men's Supplits in general. Repairs promptly
executed by skillful workmen, and all goods Will
be faithfully guaranteed at
602 Gcorge-st., Brickfield Hilt, Sydney.
In pection Invited. Price List on application
Prepared from Pure Drugs and Chemicals by
q uahfled Chemists in the most scientific manner
to ensure the best action,
FOR NOTHING
ts more essential to enable doctors to make quick
cures, therefoie we only employ qualified assiit-
ants with diploma 1 in our establishments, and
supply everything of the best quality at
the lowest prices.
T. JONES & CO..
UISPENIUHG CHEMISTS,
53 Market st., between Pitt and George streets.
Branch Houses:—Crown-street Tram Terminus,
Surry Hills; and Suva, Fiji.
Anything you Require from Sydney
FORWARDED AT
COST FRIGE.
NO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, forwarded free of all
charges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
Job T. Mints Ci Ci„
90 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.YF.
MANHOOD RESTORED 1
A Clergyman having tried every known remedy
for the CURE of NERVOUS EXHAUSTION,
PREMATURE DECAY &C., has at last dis-
covered a simple SELF-CURE, which, fojr the sake
of suffering hnmanity, he will send FREE the Pre-
scription which CURED him. Address*' WHh self-
addressed envelope— DR. E. A. CLARKE,
Box 292, G. P. 0., Sydney. '
DR. THOMAS, of 203 Elizabcflnstfwjt, be-
■'tween Park and Bathurst Streets, has
passed the RoyaL.Collegc of Surgeons olf Ragland,
and is the Only medical man advertising in Aus-
tralia who has panned' the Royal Colikqe of
Physicians of Enoland. • - ; ■ ■
Consult him for the best and safest treatment
on rervous debility, skin, contagious, and blood
di.-i sos. P 1,
The
QU ,v^ts^|cU Dr . E 1P r
ES
j ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
iJs
AND ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
_ PREPARED ONLY BY
Thomas Ingham,
■lr-ve R O C K H A M PTQI
I
*>v
mmmmm
mi
</f.i
WA
mm
y..;-
m
awa
";' •
m
DR. O COErKTEDD,
52 Castlercagh Street,
SYDUEY, 3YT.S.W.
A REGULAR GRADUATE in all the brail elms
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S.W.,whose
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per.
manent cures in all private cases, ch ronlc,
nervous, skin and special diseases,
DR. O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is inc'on-
veniont to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent by post everyv, here, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is f ankly stated. Especial attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Mervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscret ion, Excess, or Indulgence,
producing some of the following effects:—Ner-
voir::cs», Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples on the Face, Aversion to Sooietj’
of Keaiij?;;, Want of F'easure in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Hoad t.che, Restlessness, Loss .of Spirits,■'
I’alns in the Back, Stunted Development, &c., are
treated with unparalleled success. Cures per-
manent, safe, and private. Symptom list free, and medicines sent by post.
Skin Diseases, Itching, Burning, Scaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptions
of evQry kina,, from whatever cause, promptly cured.
speedy j>- “V perfect'Jif® oure, that is the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free. Call on or'
addins DOCTOR J. O CONNELL,
53 Castlerefft&U Street (ssouhj fw), Syduey^i


THOS. GAUNT
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, and OPTICIAH,
u-JHaWT' I 339 AND 341 GiORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
) NBAB ®£o p f«S ,Si
Manufacturer off Turret Ciocks, Prize Cups, Optical ansi Surveying Instruments, Sc-
aunt’s Special Silver Hunting English Lever Hatch, strong dust-proof cases, warranted a most correct and R®
timekeeper. Post free on receipt of P. 0.0. for 6 guineas. A select stock of Gold and Diamond Jewellery.
PRICE LISTS FREE ON APPLICATION.
ALLAGHAN.
Caterer and Confectioner,
694 GEOR6E STREET.
nr WBDDINGB. BALLS. PICNICS, AND PABTIEB A SPECIALITY.
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTION &
HMKNT HOOKS *OK
unr** a*" »"“2
FRY’S
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
J. S. FRY & SON'S, Bristol, London, and Sydney-
“An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.— Lancst.
00 R VICTOR BICYCLE.
BENNETT & WOOD,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Our VICTOR EXCELSIOR BICYCLE
has Ball-bearings to both wheels, Hollow
Front and Back Forks, Eliptical Backbone,
Detachable Handle-bar. The following parts
arc highly plated : —Spokes, hub, head, part
of backbone, and all back forks, step, cranks,
and pedals.
PRICE, COMPLETE,
£l7 10s.
A Largo Stock of
“ RUDGE ” BICYCLES
AND SAFETIES ON HAND.
ROADSTERS, SEMI-RACERS & RACERS.
The largest assortment of every make
in the colonies.
BICYCLES (new) from £6 10s.
Repairs by Coventry Experts.
Send for Illustrated Price List. '
Cut this acWertisement out when making application.
tr.
A-
eo
£X2>
if fNIQUK FLA VU UK and unsurpassed
<U Crispness distinguish Wilson’s Ame-
rican “Extra Toast “BISCUITS. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and incomparlble
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
w Srrssßx Stows*. Sydctmt.
—-—- —5H™ | <
BUDGEREB ! BUDGEREE
Trade
asd
fas
df
Marl*-
KTO MORE FEVER-
***&$**
nf
smells arising iroiu uiubcub, u» u _-
Depot: JAS. C. STEEL, Bulletin-lone, Lo*® r
— jjg Qtll
MUSIC SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJEST gtf <|
281 GEORGE STREET, STOREY, •*■*'
Also, at London, Mayence, Paris, and Brussels.
—————— j ‘
LABOBST STOCK IN TEE CO 1*0 9
■or
BULL DO© ALB.
FIRST AWARD, GO&D MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
ingot Bass Ale nave oDtamea tor Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Caloutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALB, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—KElGWlN and
HARSTON, Sole Agents.
WALLACH BROS.'
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS
asdfasdfsegharywthalery4hkert
AFTcn OEForiE KCUSta'CAO Old WniSkors. #6F0nJi afyeo
Boyd's Bcanl J'.lixir did this
nid will do it on either bald
head or bar:: face- Forces
heavy A [oust ache in from 2 to
4 weeks and never f&Qs , 20>000 1
young men already wear fall
•beards, having used 1 to # pkts. jVo injury, easily applied, certain
in effect. Packets , Is. Gd, each , 3 for . Gd .. post paid, sent, under
cover, free, from obit rvation, Address, Frank Doftiri i-ole Agent,
Box G P.O., Sydney. *' "
V?
CopyriQhted.
COOL ALT A WINES,
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX,
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 Qeorge-street
(Beneath Palinsr'a.)
perfect! 00 W
t»e !
•e
THE highest point of
factureof
Gentlemen’s
jveS. **$
having been reached by *
prepared to supply our Cust°
made of any material, cut o
principle, „ai^
and as we use materials of til0 0
durability and good value are
iurability and good value are ft
»• »• debhevJ*
13 HUNTER 8i
Manufactory
A,
SYDNEY- '
If*
R. C. MESS/T^hO^
FASHION ABL 6 > V * '
and MEN’ * fSrfy
Sup p lies_C^othhag^^vWch,^f^ g g^ii^
Ua lityof^al n cfey 8 ff
Your patronage repeot' u „ g JS
255 PITT
XL
LATE ROWLANDS A LEWIS,
Hwltwlww ol all kinds of Wratad Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Vlso' 1 "*
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, fund at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded tha Only 00/a Medal for /Crated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs,
