

THE BULLETIN
Vol 4 -No. 170 New Series.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 14, 1886.
Price—sa.
Australia versus Civilisation.
The Bulletmk
SATURDAY, AUGUST 14. 1886.
The Moloch of the New South Wales crimi-
nal law was defrauded of a couple of victims
the other day. A policeman lit a match one
midnight in a Sydney park, and with the
aid of its flickering light beheld, as he
solemnly swore, two ruffians in the act of
outraging the laws of eternal decency. He
blew out the match, flung it from him,
seized and ran the malefactors in. The
magistrates before whom the case came
sent the men to the Woolloomooloo lookup
for 48 hours’ confinement and 15 lashes each.
Within a few minutes of the following noon-
day, however, just as the spattered triangles
were ready, just as the hulking criminals
were drawing their torn shirts over their
bullet-shaped heads, just as the gaol-warder,
drawing the knotted thongs between his
fingers, stepped forward to earn his 4s. 3d.
per back, a police-superintendent rushed in,
and, interpreting a minute written by the
Minister for Justice, ordered the flogging to
be remitted. The hulking louts, grinning,
drew the torn shirts down again over their
grimy, seamy backs, and the warder, drop-
ping the “ oat ” by his side, meditated, as
the twin visions, the Siamese 4s. 3d.’s, floated
off into the inaccessible infinite azure, on
the fallacy of human expectations, A
dreariness, as of the sudden shutting-up of
a monster circus, fell on the yard of the
Woolloomooloo lockup. The triangles for-
lorn, derelict, were gibbered through by
the noonday breeze.
♦ • *
Mr. Garvan, the Minister in question, may
or may not be opposed on principle to the
employment of the lash. If he ia not so op-
posed to it at present, we hope he soon will
be. Until, however, he chooses to make
known his sentiments on the general ques-
tion, his secret is his own. What we recog-
nise is that this particular cheating of the
flogger was a good thing. What we hope is
that every case sent forward for the lash,
will, while the law is as i • is, present features
which will justify the Minister in remitting
the sentence. There is no room for dubious
utterance on this point. Let the law
be reformed, and this signmark of bar-
barity swept away, and the dirty fools
of feeble intellects, sick fancies, and
foul appetites can be driven, without pro-
test, under magistrate and Minister, to
prison-cell and prison-workshop. But while
the law stands as it is, we want either magis-
trates who will leave inoperative the elaus< s
which confer power to treat men as brutes,
or a Minister who will make inoperative the
brutalising decisions of magistrates.
* * *
Since the amendment of the Criminal Law
in 1883, whipping has been going on freely
over New South Wales. Between July of
that year, and December last, 47 backs were
sent to the triangles. In some
50 lashes were ordered in one dose, while in
others three doses of 35 lashes each were
given. Of these 47 cases, 40 were in some
respects connected with the crime of in-
decency. What good has there been achieved
by all this flogging ? Has there been any-
thing more done than adding 47 cicatrised
backs to the host of flayed New South
Welshmen that stand pinioned before the
mental gaza of the wondering historian?
In the New South Wales Parliamentary
paper on flogging, compiled lately at the in-
stance of Mr. Harold Stephen, M.L.A., 15
criminals are set down for the triangles for
the year 1885, while from July, the date
the new whipping-law came into operation,
till the end of 18;3, only three were thus sent.
The inference is that floggahle offences were
more than tioice as numerous in 1885 than
they were in 1883. It is true that in 1884 they
were nearly twice as numerous as in 1835,
but that only makes the year succeeding
that of the amended law, four times as bad
as the one in which it came into operation.
The period covered by the return of which
we speak is, we admit, too brief to
admit of a strong argument against
flogging being drawn from the records
but, little or much, its evidence is in that
direction. In Victoria, complete flogging
statistics are available for 10 years. In 1874,
11 persons were flogged, and in 1884, 17.
This is confirmation of the view that the
more the lash is used the more it will want
to be used. When in 1880'only five went to
the triangles it was thought that the bad
blood was nearly drawn off; but in 1881 the
MR. W. CURNOW
(Editor of the SYDNEY MORNING HERALD).
top score was again reached, and it stood so
at the end of the period. Tte experience of
the flogging A ct in England is still more con-
clusive. The statistics are that in the five
years succeeding the Act of 18(53 the offences
made floggable increased 30 per cent. They
were 1480 for the five years ending with 186)1,
and 1910 for the five years ending with 1868,
Such experiences preach duties.
* * *
With, however, the mass of savagery that
underlies colonial legislation a humane re-
form of law is difficult. Ghosts of old dead
culprit-tamers arise and swing the ropes
with which they used to rule. They draw
through shadowy fingers the shtaves of
thongs that blistered the backs of the crimi-
nals who cleared thegum trees from thes treets
of Sydney. The inflexible and inexorable
spirits of these oil captains of chaingangs
and handlers of human devils meet the
criminal-law reformer at every turn. In the
midst of his argument in favour of a larger
measure of sympathy for, and a more
liberal recognition of the sacredness and
nobility of the meanest and most wretched
life that stirs in the form of man, he is
forced to pause. Pulsing through the veins
of his audience is the old fell spirit. He re-
cognises it in the averted glance and the
stripped teeth. The gallows and triangles
were the shibboleth of power in the past,
the gallows and triangles are the sacrament
of power to-day. The divine sentiment of
human compassion for a fallen brother, the
divine impulse to give the criminal another
and another and another chance; the human
hope that rings and rings of better days
even while the wretch goes down and down;
the human love that calls and calls and will
not be comforted until it has made him
hear—all these fall flat; all these lose effi-
cacy, potency, vitality, in presence of the
resuscitated spirit of the old chain-gang
captains pointing to the blood-stained tri-
angles and the rows of bleached skulls on
the weather-worn gallows-beam.
* * ♦
To flog a man is to kill him morally and
socially. His cicatrised back and cicatrised
name can never be healed. The weals and
welts may grow less livid, but they will be
always traceable from shoulders to waist.
The disgrace and degradation will never be
wiped off his name. Is it becoming, is it
just, is it tolerable that the power to effect
this total ruin of a man should be entrusted
to a policeman and a couple of obscure
magistrates, elevated to the Bench to please
Heaven knows whom ? The order with
which Mr. Q Aryan interfered was made by
two magistrates on the testimony of one
policeman. Dr. Wakley, one of the pro-
prietors of the London Lancet, and a mem-
ber of the Imperial Parliament, declared in
the House of Commons on one occasion that
even a few lashes may amount to a sentence
of death. No medical man can know what
seeds of disease lie latent in the human body.
If, however, there be any, it is recognised
that the application of irritants may put
them in course of action. Dr. Wakley cited
a case in which death followed flogging, and
gave it as his opinion, and as that of the
medical profession in England generally,
that when a man of nervous temperament
is flogged, some fatal disease is almost in-
variably produced. Is it fitting [that this
power should be left in the bands of an ig-
norant policeman and two magistrates of
uncertain leanings ? If the lash is to be
maintained, should not its employment be
reserved for the consideration of a jury
directed by a Judge sitting in the highest
tribunal of the land ? Should not this sen-
tence of social, moral, and possibly physical
death be made to require the assent of the
Executive and the Governor’s warrant ?
m • •
Only that policeman nature is what it is a
cry for at least this amount of restriction
would have long ago gone up. Dives dines
at his club. His head steams with the fumes
of Roederer, Chateau Margaux, and Amon-
tillado. He sends home his carriage and
takes his way through the park on
foot. Somewhere in the darkness a police-
man strikes a match, and observes what he
calls a breach of decency Will Dives be
soruffed, dragged to the lockup, thrust into
the dock, and sent to be flogged ? On the
other hand, Hodge, who, under the impres-
sion that he was imbibing rare old Irish
whisky or fine old mild Glenlivet, filled
himself up with heeltaps quickened with
vitriol and pyroxylic spirit, also takes his
way through the park. The policeman
strikes a match and obtains a similar reve-
lation. Hodge is caught by the neck,
di agged to the lockup, brought before the
court, and driven summarily to the triangles.
Had one rich man been treated thus in
New South Wales a cry would have gone
up on behalf of his social position
and on behalf of his moral nature ; on
behalf of his wife who with a flogged hus-
band at her side would find it uncomfort-
able to act longer as the leading member of
a fashionable committee, and on behalf of
his group of daughters, now rising to
womanhood, whose after-lives would be
darkened by the shadow of a father with
his back bared to the noonday sun, twisting,
writhing, kicking, screaming, while the
whip fell and the gaolers jeered. Nor would
they cry stop till such an exhibition would
be made for ever impossible on the oath of a
policeman, and the authority of one or two
magistrates. The policeman-mind prevents
this. It takes it that Divas cannot, unless
he is insane, be a brute, but that Hodge is
naturally one. Hence it is only Hodge,
whose social position and whose wife and
children are of no fashionable concern, that
we see tied by the wrists in our gaol-yards.
But even though all this were changed, and
rich and poor alike were brought under the
lash, and though the sentence were made
subject to Executive approval, we would
still denounce it. France, America, Ger-
many, Denmark, Italy, have abolished it.
Even Russia has thrown away the knout.
"Why should the legislation of Australia be
longer disgraced by the barbarous [instru-
ment ?' Why should the people be longer
degraded by it ?
♦ • ♦
Magistrates who will not exercise the
brutal power given to them by the present


law, and Ministers who will forbid it to be
exercised, come to the reformer’s assistance.
With such administrators the tables of the
crimson code are broken. The magistrates
of Scotland refused for 40 years to act
upon a flogging law. They were told by
people the whiteness of whose souls had all
gone into their cravats, that having taken
office under the law, they were morally
bound to carry the law out. The admoni-
tion was pressed home by those who, having
for a time ground their souls into starch for
their neckties, considered it more lucrative
to start grinding them into arrowroot for
the journalistic market. But the stolid
Scotch magistrates stood still. For 40 years
they did not once put their power to flog in
motion. Then, in 1862, the law was for-
mally abolished. Alison, the historian,
writing while the law was still on the
Statute Book, but justifying the atti-
tude of the magistrates, says “ There appear
many reasons amply sufficient to vindicate
a change in the law, in the altered Draper
and increased humanity of the times, and
the experienced inefficiency of corporal
pains, except in cases of juvenile offenders ,
to answer the ends of justice.” A reform of
the Criminal Law of New South Wales will
come. There is a healthy impulse towards
personal, and away from traditional, ideas
at work in the community. But recent
thought induces the belief that desuetude
will precede abolition; that magistrates will
grow up who will refuse to be the
mechanical tools of brutal legislation, and
that Ministers of the Crown will arise who,
if such tools exist, will have the courage,
the humanity, and the wisdom to deprive
the Moloch of Barbarism of his feast of
flesh and blood.
Primroses and Brimstone.
•‘THE Dames of the Primrose League will make a
house-to-house canvass against Mr. Gladstone.”
So runs the record of the time whose results have
been briefly ticked across to us by telegraph. The
Dames of the Primrose League did make a ho us 3-
to houses canvass one may now say, and more, the
dames of the Primrose League had a decided suc-
cess. And was there nobody in England to speak
eut and declare that the business was not of prim-
roses but of brimstone? Really it seems not. Dime
Mesalina Shrewsbury and Dame Faustine
Marlborough (not she who was dishonoured and
kicked, but the female thing who willingly took
her place with all risks), and all their associates
and tails, whispered and flattered, pleaded and
persuaded, lied and slandered, through the length
and breadth of the kingdom, and not without
effect. What did it mean ? Something like this.
The Shrewsbury woman, wearing the soiled
rose of glorious womanhood, with one or two
sweet slips of English girls, who Indeed were pol-
luted by the touch of her. garments or the taint of
her breath, drove down to the village in the fair
June evening, when Job the ploughman, and
Luke the hedger, and Tom the milkman, were
smoking on the public-house bench, or, better, on
the village green. They descended from the car-
riage and sat on the bench; close to the corduroy
and the smock-frock, close to the smell of the
stable and the cowshed, close to the deadened yet
hungry perceptions and passions, close to the men
who had never before been nearer the ladies of the
land, than a wood and water Glbeonlte of Palesllae
to the sanctuary of the tabernacle, close, pres-
Bingly close, with strange lights in their eyes and
pleading pressures in their soft, white, fragrant
hands, and with lies in every look and gesture,
and slanders in every word. That is a part of the
business. Quite a different thing, is is not, from
the old Lady Bountiful blanket and beef and jelly
and wine business ? A thing requiring cleverness,
tact, and—education, for Its successful perform,
ance.
* ♦ ♦
And it does not stop with the village clods.
Jerky, the collier, has a vote, too. Jerry, who
kicked his wife to death, just slowly enough to
escape the halter; Jerry, who starved his infant
in order that “ta bull-pup” might be full ;fed.
Jerry must be approached and induced to say,
“Dom the owd ’oodchopper; I’ll chop his ’ed
mysin’.” Faustine Marlborough or another
will deal with him. He has only to feel about him
for a moment the unfamiliar presence of rare-
white flesh to be drunker than he ever was with
gin, and to be absolutely fit for the work for
which he is wanted.
* * *
They were all made drunk and lit so; all
seduced, besotted, betrayed. And was there no
voice to warn them ? None, it is to be feared
coming out of a man with as clear a perception ot
the truth, and as fierce a scorn of all the con-
veniences of society, as Elijah in his bearskin, or
the Baptist in his camei’s-hair, strong with the
locusts and wild honey, the free air, and the God s
spirit of the wilderness. What should such an one
have said in England in that most deadly month
of the most memorable year England has ever
known ?
• • 8 .
The first word which occurs to any free and
clear-minded man, viewing the matter in this
remote distance, is: “ What does it mean ?” What
does it mean? he should ask the clod of the
village, and the churl of the pits, and whea
answer had been made “ Oi doan knaw,” he should
have began to explain. It means, in the first place,
that they want something from you; and, in the
second, that they understand the necessity of giv-
ing something in return. And what is it ? What
is it, both ways ? Their want is your curse and
vote against Gladstone. They will give you for it
—What? Somewhat more than prophetic power
might be required, perhaps, to sum up all that has
been given. And, indeed, it is not neces-
sary to go farther than the old Lady Bountiful
baskets, the Delilah courtesy, and the familiar
gestures before mentioned. What do they mean ?
Is your face still blank, ploughman Luke, or is the
warmth of that new sensation still in your blood ?
Are you still conscious, Jerky, of a something
that somehow seemed more to be desired than
health and victory to the bull-pup ? It is this—
that you have been bought and sold, bribed and
betrayed by about one ten-thousandth part of
your own. The harlots’ lights in those radiant
eyes, how they burned for you I And you forget
that to kindle those fires your sisters, your wives,
your little children, your women of ten genera-
tions have pined sad-eyed and joyless, and poor in
hut, and hovel, and workfleld, and workhouse ?
And the rose of pink beneath the ivory skin, did
it seem to bud and bloom for your poor sake ? And
the dainty foot; did it just a little display itself for
your mute delight ? And the shapely limbs and the
wonderful bodies, were they draped and displayed
for the solace and sweetening of your poor and
morbid lives ? Poor, poor men, so terribly true to
your masculine nature—did it ever occur to you,
that the flesh and blood which came to you
tempting, had been fertilised and perfected by all
the labours and sufferings of your own; that
wretched little children in factories, in mines, in
ferries, had, age after age, been crippled, stunted'
tortured, deformed; that youths and maidens,
weak and frail, had been killed out; strong men
cramped into the similitude of Cyclops; women
rendered unfit for healthful child-bearing by the
labours performed for these luxurious flash-
growths which came down to you as gracious
Primrose dames ? Your sweat, your sorrow, your
flesh, your blood, your rightful joys, your reason-
able liberties filched or taken, ground down and
distilled in the aristocratic mill to provide these
beautiful blossoms, that Intoxicating essence, that
matchless grace and glorious beauty of which you
were permitted a momentary glimpse ?
♦■* ■ . *
You did not see it then ; you could not see.
You were blind as any other drunken men to their
own follies. And you think now, do you that it
was the beginning of the great change, that
there really was something genuine in it I
You dare to hope, to dream, to Imagine—
God save you man. They would tie you up and
flog you. They would torture you as Louis
tortured Ravaillac, as Czir Peter his son, as
Gentle James the swart Spaniard who sought to
hasten his departure to the bourne of all departed
kings. If you attempted to give the ghost of
expression to the thought and the desire they bred
in you, the aristocratic world should ring with
the tale of your infamous presumption and with
clamour for the scourging out of your bestial
propensities. They showed you the shadow of
your own, and for the satisfaction of a momentary
glimpse of that shadow, you sold yourselves and
your birthright and the truest and staunchest
friend your generation has known. Set up a howl
at the blazing windows of the hall, when you
recognise it. Gnash your teeth as the mud of the
carriage wheels is flung in your face-take
to yourselves the added bitterness the fop
and fool of the aristocratic world knows
when the woman he Imagines he has
lured and meshed, shakes him away with a
single peal of mocking laughter and sates her own
poor pride with the knowledge of his Infinite
chagrin and shame. That is your payment, your
punishment, your doom. Well for you if you can
take the lesson it should teach.
* * *
But, dames and damozels of the Primrose or the
Brimstone League, Hermione or Mesalina,
Imogen or Faustina, have a care. You have
lost more than you have won in this matter.
The soil and the stain is not hid by the blush of
triumph or the robes of the festival. And do you
not see the danger? Do you not, can you not,
will you not remember, that Foulon's taunt, “Let
them eat grass,” had passed and was almost for-
gotten when the pretty princess laughed in
their faces and made her little joke, “They
clamour for bread, was there ever seen such an
unreasonable people, can’t they be content with
cake?” the round white necks beneath the
guillotine, and the noyades of Nantes very shortly
followed.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Last Knell.
Louis Kiel s widow is dying: of a broken heart.”
N.Y. Herald, May 19th.
“ Louis Kiel’s widow is dead.”
N.Y. Herald, May 37th.
The New York Herald, not the S.M. Herald.
The winning of a couple of 40s. prizas, the presen.
tation of a couple of emu-eggs to the Queen, the
news that Eosisto, dispensing chemist of Rich-
mond (Yic.), and Commissioner in London, re-
luctantly accepted a C.MG. These are S.M.
Herald telegraphic items, but the fate of the
widow of the murdered patriot of Canada is not of
such importance as to justify the expenditure of
a half-sovereign. We have to journey to New
York to find that the widow of Lours Kiel was
not a squaw who would speedily console herself, to
hear that. She had within her so much of tender
and true humanity and constant wifehood that
the horrid jar which snapped her husband’s
vertebrae, broke her own heart-strings. The kindly
Sisters of the Sacred Heart nursed her and supplied
all her little wants; helped her to die in peace, but
could not save her. And what a useless piece of
savagedoxn it was that hanging of Lours Kiel I No
other nation or Government In the world would
have been guilty of it. It is not necessary here to
repeat the sad story of the futile rebellion, the
rising against what appeared to the half-breed
settlers as a treacherous breach of contract. It
was crushed out as easily as a schoolboy rising in
Cork is crushed by the buckshot of the
armed constabulary, and Lours Riel was taken,
and brought down to the city for trial!
His wife followed down all the dreary river
Journey. And she waited through all the tedious
process of the law. She saw the splendour of the
courts, she listened bewildered to the jargon of
the law terms. It seemed so calm, so merciful, so
free of ail passion and brutality, that she could
not imagine its ending in that hideous crime of
the gallows. Nor could she see that bitter brutal
faction, that “ loyal Orange ” bate, which had said,
“ Biel shall hang because he is a Catholic, and the
Catholic party have avowed their Intent to save
him.” The poor woman did not know the signifi-
cance of banners and sashes in the streets, and
meetings in halls with close-shut well-watched
doors. How should she know that those well-
dressed, highly-civilised people werfe clamouring
for her husband’s blood? She watched and
watched. She saw him pass from court to prison,
from prison to court, she heard that an appeal had
gone to England, that the case would be submitted
to the Queen, and her hope grew large then, for she
could not believe that any woman would desire her
husband’s blood. But the message came back
that it was according to law that Riel should
hang. He was guilty of treason, and by law the
authorities in Canada could hang, draw, and
quarter him if it so pleased them. It did so please
them. It was the necessity of the party in power
to glut the “ Orange ire.” So a day came when
that black beam, that hideous bar-sinister of Eng-
land’s escutcheon, was run out across the hatch of
heaven above the gaol-yard. The wife waited
without. She did not see her patriot husband
bound and blindfolded, made hideous as any victim
prepared for Obi’s sacrifice. But she heard the
clanging of the prison bell, she felt the bang, bang
of the iron clapper as blow upon blow on heart
and brain, she saw the eager witnesses of the
murder pass in, and the black-vested sisters hurry
out. She heard at last the clang of the bolt, the
thud of the falling body, and saw the black flag up
as a raving wrong against the sky. And then—.
What need we say what then ? What need of seek-
ing to probe or fathom or understand those mys-
terious depths of sacred sorrow? The telegrams
tell us all: " Louis Riel’s widow is dying of a
broken heart. Louis Riel’s widow is dead.”
+
“ Recommended to Mercy!”
The man who first pourtrayed Justice as a blind
female with a sword on one side, came much
nearer to the eternal truth than he himself was
probably aware. Justice is blind—hopelessly blind,
and the doings’of this ophthalmic goddess
tralia are fast becoming a national disgrace. There
is one law for the rich and another for the poor,
and for some unexplained reason there is ten times
more law for the poor than for the rich. In Syd-
ney, very recently, a baker's man embezzled the
sum of twenty-four shillings and eightpence—no
very remarkable circumstance in a country where
bank and railway officials embezzle thousands,
and professing Christians misappropriate the rest.
He was tried and found guilty, but recommended
to mercy, and, in the face of this recommendation,
Judge Docker sentenced him to three yean.
Perhaps this is Judge Docker’s idea of mercy; if
he had administered pure undiluted justice he
might have spread the repayment of that
twenty-four shillings and eightpence over
ten years of hard labour, and if his aim
had been to make an example of this wicked
baker the sentence would possibly have made a
large gap in the century. The Judge is a pro-
minent member of the Anglican Synod, and we
must always go to parsonical circles in order to
get a good grip alike of law and mercy. Recom-
mended to mercy, yet sent to gaol for three years
for appropriating a miserable one pound four-and-
eightpence 1 Twelve months’ labour, disgrace, and
abject misery for each eight shillings; one month
of prison-garb and prison fare for every separate
eightpence which went to make up the paltry
total; six days set apart for convict toil, and one
day—perhaps the worst of all—for the study of
convict Christianity, and for the perusal of that
Bible which says "Hath not God chosen the
poor,” for each twopence; 84 hours for stealing
one penny; 21 hours in gaol for a farthing. The
exigencies of the British mint make it impossible
to carry the calculation further; it would be
necessary to resort to Portuguese or Chinese coin-
age to find a piece of money which would repre-
sent the value of one hour’s imprisonment ac-
cording to the merciful (but just) Judge Docker.
On this point the people of Lisbon and
Pekin have shown themselves wiser than we.
They probably foresaw to what vile uses
their laws would one day be devoted, and they
arranged their monetary systems so as to give a
Judge the opportunity of figuring out his atro"
clous sentences on a logical and arithmetical basis.
But if Judge Docker’s system were applied to
the rich and “respectable” classes, the whole
hymn-gang of New South Wales would expect to
see the stars in their courses stop to protest
against such infamy. If, when Holt was brought
up for sentence, some judicial Draco had thus
calculated his punishment on the fly-leaf of his
intellect, forgetting for the moment that he was
dealing with a popular banker, not an unknown
baker, his term would have extended to about
3300 years, and yet the half of Holt’s crime was
not revealed, and he had neither poverty nor
powerful temptation to plead as an excuse. More-
over, mild as his sentence was, he has every pros-
pect of receiving still further consideration; a
merciful insanity has come to his relief, but no
one hears anything about the insanity of a con-
victed baker. Bakers are not allowed to become
deranged so long as there are stones to break and
oakum to pick, and probably a mad baker works
as hard while in gaol as a sane one and proves
quite as useful. Berner’s case, when placed along-
side that of Holt, presents another shining
example of New South Wales justice. He was a
man of no particular importanee; he was suffer-
ing from a permanent injury which handicapped
him terribly In the battle of life; he was a weak
man driven to crime by the pressure of embar-
rassment; and the total amount of his misappro-
priations was only one-fourth of what was alleged
against the pet banker, and probably not one-
tenth of the banker’s actual defalcations. His sen-
tence on Holt s basis should have been one year’s
imprisonment; calculated as .the baker’s punish-
ment was it should have amounted to 833 years;
but Berner was lower in the social scale than the
one and higher than the other, so an adjust-
ment was made, and he was sent to expiate his
crime by passing 10 years in prison In the face of
these things will anyone dare to assert that there
is not one scale of punishment for the rich and
another for the poor? Liw is the relentless
enemy of everyone who belongs to the humbler
class; it regards the workman who goes astray
under pressure of poverty as a depraved ruffian,
while the social aristocrat, who falls thre gh
sheer greed and extravagance, is treated as one
who is more to be pitied than blamed. Recom-
mended to mercy I What would the baker’s sen-
tence have been if not tempered by that recom-
mendation ? Of course we know the argument
that a man’s crime is in such in ances to be
measured more by the extent of the trust be be*
trays than by the amount he steals. But can any
sophist reconcile on that ground the font years’
sentence passed on banker Holt, who stole thou-
sands, and the three years (carrying with it solitary
confinement in Berrima) accorded to the miser-
able baker who erred once, was recommended to
mercy, and whose crime involved but five and
twenty shillings ?
4
Squatter* and Shearer*.
We owe a word to the squatters and the shearers
Just now. There Is strife amongst them about
wages. Shearers generally want £1 a hundred,
squatters offer 17s. 61. A few figures will
show how these rates would work. Take
four or five big stations In various dis-
tricts—Beemeny and Dunlop, Darling; Groon-
gal, Murrumbldgee; Brookong, Murrumbidgee.
They should shear, In a fair season, about
100.000,150,000,200,000,235,000 respectively, and pay,
at £1 a hundred, £lOOO, £l5OO. £2OOO, £2390 to their
shearers. Their wool at present rates should be
worth £30,000 on every 100,000 sheep. Cutting
down the shearers 2s 61. per hundred, they would
save £135 out of every £20,000. That Is the sum
they fight about, the sum they expect to save by
fighting their workmen. We do not propose to
ask If it is worth while, or to point out the risks
incurred by delay, grass-seeds, fall in price, Hoods
up, or rivers down, but just to set out the other
side and let the two sets of figures speak. A first-
class shearer leaving Monaro, say on the Ist of J une,
may, with good luck and good arrangements, start
on a north of the Darling station on July lit; may
with five weeks good shearing out out 3000 in that
shed, may get another 3000 on the Lachlan, another
on the Murrumbldgee, and 1500, say, In a small
shed on the mountains about the beginning of
December—lo,soo altogether, for which, at £1 a
hundred, he will get £lO5. A good cheque, but he
has some expenses. He has to keep himself all the
time. It is a popular error that the squatter keeps
him. First-class shearers pay their way from the day
they start. Their expenses ar e aboutl3?. 61. per week
for rations, with 2?. 6J. per week for the cook, 15i.
in a 11—26 weeks at 15?,, £l9los. Then shears, oil, and
stone (the squatter supplies these, but charges for
them), would amount on the 10,500 sheep to about
£2los. (This brings expenses up to £22, and this
sum allows nothing for tobacco or rum. (It is the
highly moral shearer we are sketching.) £32 from
£lO5 leaves £B3. £B3 a first-class shearer may earn
in six months by travelling 2000 miles, for which
he will require two good horses, with turn-
out, worth not less than £lO. £B3 he may
take home if he gets £1 a hundred, but if he is
docked 3s. 6d. a hundred he will have but £6917s
6d. I for the deduction of the 2a. 6d. means a re-
duction on his total earnings of £l3 2a. 6d. That’s
it. We will make proportion of it. As £lB 2a. 6d.
is to £lO5, so is (or is not) £125 to £20,000. On his
£30,000 worth of wool the squatter saves £125 on
his half-year's work; the shearer loses £l3 2?. 6d.
It is only to be added that the shearer we have
imagined here must have served an apprentice-
ship of at least four years, must be free of vice as
of weakness, must have no misfortunes, suffer no
delay by flood or drought, and not lose more than
a week by wet weather. Must, Indeed, be a good
man all through, and have good luck all through'
to earn £lO5 in six months working 10 hours a day,’
and it would be very safe to assert that there is
not a shearer in Australia who can say that be has
done it three years out of six.
4
Carington and his Carriage.
“ This blank nonsense about Lord CabxnotOn’s
carriage.” That is the way it is put, your Excel-
lency, and not by some bilious malcontent or
would-be sycophant querulous under the smart of
a well-merited snub, but by good men who fling
the paper, making record of such stuff, aside, and
roar for morning coffee or afternoon whisky to
wash the nausea away. “This blank nonsense,’*
they say, and they mean it. “ His Excellency sent
his carriage to convey the damaged footballer to
hospital, and on the morrow his Excellency jour-
neyed out to the hospital to see how the damaged
footballer fared.” Thus is it hashed up as news by
the “ great dallies,” and the mob shout, “ God
bless the good Governor 1” Does your Excellency
love to hear the mob shout thus ? And are the
loan of the carriage and the trip to the hospital*
the fees paid for that shout ? Is it practical sym-
pathy, straightforward, open-hearted good nature,
or is it mob-worship, your Excellency 7 That is
the plain and the ugly question we must put. The
affair of the carriage now. Was it necessary ? If the
man’s bones were badly broken he would have
been much more comfortable upon a mattrassin
one of those fruit-carts which usually hang about
the gate, and if it was only a cracked collar-bone
he would have been better bestowed in a hansom
with his head against a mate’s shoulder. Your
carriage was not built for an ambulance, your
Excellency, and the poor devil would be fretted
and fldgetty, too, with fear that he might damage
the upholstery. No, it was not practical sympa-
thy at all; it lacked reasonable excuse. Then the
visit to the hospital on the Sunday morning. It
was to see a football-player, a rough-and-ready
fellow who had a hundred friends and acquain-
tances to leave cards and messages, and drop in
for aya rn. Was there anything in his case to call
for such a departure from ordinary routine?
If the goodn efs of your Excellency’s nature
caused an overflow of sympathy on that particular
morning, was the footballer the proper or the only
object to claim it ? Ah I tender-hearted Excellency,
with much balm of sympathy to bestow, had
you asked doctor or nurse on that morning
what more severe cases your presence might
have cheered, they surely would have led you to
some couches of agony, to some extremities of
distress, whose paramount claims would not have
left many smiles or words for a footballer,
troubled more probably wi h disciplined appetite
than broken bone Perhaps, however, it was just
a simple big schoolboy sort of desire which moved
you to canter out, and if so, why should we be so
prompt and pert in criticism ? Pert it would be.
and rude, and quite unnecessary to make any
comment on a visit of that sort; but our com,
mont only follows the pompous record of the
“ Great Dailies.” If one mate visits another, it is
not a " news of the day ” affair, and your Excel-
(Continued on page 9.)


“ Gladstone Pomatum " is the name now
applied to the mixture which the Grand Old Man
uses as Internal refreshment during his speeches,
and a patent for its manufacture has been applied
for. It anyone could And out what kind of a re-
viver Nelld, M.P., uses, what a trade might be
done in ** Jawbone grease I”
A London telegram reports that a mer-
chant named Cook has obtained a divorce from his
THE TWO CHANCELLORS: A CONTRAST.
"Lord Randolph Churchill has taken office as Chancellor of the Exchequer."— Cablegram.
wife on the ground of her adultery wilh the Eev.
Mr. Finlay, organising secretary of the Colonial
and Continental Church Society. The reverend
gospel-sharp has been also let iu for £lOOO, Hal-
lelujah! This Is the sort of man we entrust with
money for the redemption of the perishing
heathen.
“ A determined effort is, it is cabled, to
be made to crush the Burmese dacoits.” “ Daooit ”
(robber, bushranger) is a neat word to pin on the
breast of every Burman who objects to the
“ snavelllng ” of his country by the philanthropic
Jan 8001. “Daooit” is an improvement on
“ rebel,” the term which was found so useful in
the Egyptian business.
The dissolute Duke of Marlborough has
had the great Blenheim art collection auctioned,
for £350,000.
Down at Ararat (Yio.) some wags have
been playing upon the pet local weakness.
Ararat’s chief industry Is Its gaol. Once in a way
a man is hanged there, and the inhabitants
have naturally acquired a marked taste for
the gruesome and the gory. But of late
flings had been quiet in the town. Months
came and went with uneventful monotony,
and the people pottered through their dally
avocations, oppressed by a Weary sense of
unsatisfied longings. Just as they were thinking
of drawing lots to decide who should kill his
mother, the long-looked-for excitement was forth-
coming. An engine-driver steamed into Ararat
station with news of the right sort. He had run
over a body a little way down the line. A
small commission of investigation was des-
patched to the scene of horror and shortly
returned with the glad tidings that frag-
ments of an adult female were scattered
about the engine - track. Then there was
hurrying to and fro. A stretcher was procured,
and the whole population of Ararat volunteered
its sympathetic aid. Away they hurried to the
banquet of blood. A hundred hands were gather-
ing up the mangled fragments of the adult female,
when someone drew attention to a small rivulet
of sawdust trickling from the corpse s right leg.
As it wasn’t worth while putting' a rag torso on
the stretcher, Ararat returned home empty
handed. In the words of the oldest inhabitant,
“ it was a cruel joke.”
Until the mail brings a detailed report, the
miserable collapse of Australia in the match
against Kent will remain a riddle. The Kent team
must have developed extraordinary;bowling talent
this season if it can dispose of “ Our Boys,” on
their merits, for; T 9 runs. But at latest advlees
there wag no new Kent trundler In the fle d
Christopher son and Wootton having the bes
average. We can only elevate our eyebrows and
wonder what it all means.
The Australian, published at Windsor,
N.S.W., thus announces the succession of the
editorial eldest son to the paternal chair:—"Our
gubernatorial kinsman is now recuperating his
impaired energies.”


Iq the N.B.W. Legislative Council atten-
tion Is being drawn to the state of Dirlinghurst
gaol, which la about as crowded as the Jubilee
bingeyof a Sydney alderman. It—the gaol, not the
blngey—now contains 817 prisoners, and in a I'rre
number of cells it is reported that as many as five
prisoners are confined. The police courts are
equally wanting in accommodation, for at Res-
- where the dock is built to hold seven crdin-
ary-sized drunks and one wife-beater, do less than
18 were seen recently trying to get in at once,
when the Sydney D.T. mentions things like these
at Melbourne it sets them down to protection, m
Sydney, we presume, they must be due to iree
trade or else to mere demoralising cussednesa.
Personal
Items
Alphonsus Joseph M'Donnell, eldest son
of the Hon. M. A. M’Donnell. and brother of Mr.
Percy M’Donnell, the accomplished batsman, has
been killed at Melbourne through being taken to
the hospital.
“Lieutenant Knox has been gazetted to
the post of Captain of Lancers.’’ How many
captains, colonels, and generals are there among
this select and glittering squadron of Sydney
swells and soft goodsmen ?
“ From the reputation this lady has
achieved,” says a N.S.W. country newspaper, re-
ferring to the Escaped Nun, “ we have no doubt
she will have a large audience.” We suppose this
is meant for a compliment ?
It seems that all the “Castle”—or sus-
pected Tory-bishops in Ireland are to be foisted
on the colonies. Dr. Donnelly, whose chances of a
diocese in Ireland are very slight owing to his
antl-Natlonal views, is rumoured as the possible
li.C. Archbishop of Melbourne.
In a divorce case on
the topis in Melbourne a
legislator will star in the
role of co-respondent.
The injured husband may
be vaguely described as
“ a local J.P.”
A distinction with a
difference. Of two mem-
bers of a late N.S.W.
Government, one is Bight
Honorable and the other
is alleged to be Wright
dishonorable.
Poet Sladen says
Home Rule has only a
few sympathisers in Vic-
toria. The Victorian
Home Rulers are nearly
as numerous as the people
who suddenly get very
ill when they see even the'
outside of one of Sladen’E'
books.
Mr. F. W. Ward 1 ,
editor of the Sydney D.T. s
temporarily exhausted
by his efforts in slanging
the Protectionists, has
fone South for a holiday,
f Mr. Ward only stays in
Victoria long enough he
will come hack a believer
in the fiscal heresy which
is so firmly rooted in the-
South.
The Sultan of Tur-
key sent £30,000 as wed-
ding present to President
Cleveland, and the gift
was declined. Abdul-
Hamid, son of Abdul-
Medjid, Padishah, Com-
mander of the Faithful,
Khalif of Bagdad, Boss
Mahommedan of the
whole Barth, &c. (ten
yards of hereditary Otto-
man slush are unavoid-
ably held over), please
send that present this
way, and it won’t he re-
fused again. By the way,
the only Mahommedan
potentate who has an
agent in Sydney is the
Shah of Persia; he Is re-
presented—breathe it not
in good Moslem circles!—
by a scion of a well-
known and much - re-
spected family who breed
most excellent swine I
Sir James Martin,.
Chief Justice of N.8.W.,
indignant at a member of
Parliament having offi-
cially asked for some in-
formation respecting the
Supreme Court, has writ-
ten a minute contemptu-
ously alluding to the
member in question as
“ a person,” and pro-
claiming that the judges
don’t intend to he “ cate-
chised.” We suppose it
is now altogether too
late to teach this arro-
gant, not to say cocky,
individual—we mean the
C.J.—that after all he is
the paid servant of the
public, that he started
life as an attorney’s clerk,
and that he is paid the
excellent salary of £TO a
week to do his work and
keep civil. We hope that
when next the estimates
are under consideration,
the “ person” will, break-
ing through the usual
custom of the House,
propose that twopence—
for manners—he added to
Sir James Martin’s salary®
Surprise was expressed in England that
the Queen didn’t send one of her everlasting
Indian shawls to President Cleveland’s bride. It
appears the old lady was duly warned that the
First Gentleman in America would accept no
sops from royalties. If the shawl had gone, her
Majesty would have been debited with carriage
each way.
Mr. Howard Spensley, who formerly was
Attorney-General of Victoria, and who, prior to
his defeat at the late general election, sat for
Finsbury in the Radical interest, has, it is cabled,
embarked for Australia. Mr. Spensley has many
friends who will be glad to see him. He is pro-
bably only coming with the idea of Improving his
health, which has long been bad.
The London Telegraph avers “that
General Wolseley considers Mr. Gladstone a
traitor, and has refused to have any social inter-
course with him. The General will not even sit at
the same table with him.’* But for all that the
world will treasure the name of Gladstone when
that of the General who failed to reach Khartoum
is as dead as the heroic Soudan goat.
Mr. Leopold Yates, the Sydney Stipen-
diary, who with Mr. Abbott, 8.M., figured last
week in connection with the now historic flogging
sentence, is, we believe, chairman of the Jewish
Philanthropic Society. Mr. Yates’ flogging pro-
clivities may not be unconnected with his love of
the Mosaic code, which is a very excellent code, if
you overlook the castigation business.
Plymouth White, who died in the States
a few weeks ago, wasjuat about the boss swindler
of the universe. His first exploit was the sale of a
cart-load of sand for £lOO,OOO as gold-dust, and
afterwards, while in prison, he succeeded In
swindling the sheriff himself out of £4ooo—an
achievement which gives him the undoubted ear-
mark of genius. Altogether, hla swindles realized
over £300,000. He was a polygamist, and was
generally taken for a parson.
Joe Bosisto, dispensing chemist, of Rich-
mond. Melbourne, yielded to “ pressure ” from
“high quarters.” and consented—bless him I—to
become a C M.G. President Cleveland refused a
most costly wedding-present from the Sultan of
Turkey, on the ground that acceptance would be
a violation of the spirit of the Constitution. Ah 1
what a difference there is in constitutions!
Writes the London correspondent of the
Age:—“ Her Majesty possesses an excellent appe-
tite, and is very careful in her choice of food.”—
’Tis not because of Nihilists,
She's careful of her grub;
’Tis not because that dynamite’s
The cause of this 'ere rub,
Tho’ Wales's appetite is gone,
Her Majesty can eat
Six times a day now, since she heard
Of Gladstone’s late defeat.
An old Maori, who, in addition to possess-
ing a knowledge of the Scriptures, and a strong
belief in the omnipotence of tho Deity, was not
altogether unversed in “ways that are dark and
tricks that are vain” through long Intercourse
with tourist unregenerates, fell on his knees in
abject terror during the height of the recent N.Z.
eruption-cum-earthquake business, and addressed
himself to the Almighty thus squarely:—" O Lord,
if you’ll only bring me safely through this fix. I’ll
give you a pound, and to show that it’s a straight
affair, Morgan (pointing to the native interpreter
who, together with a number of other natives,
was crouched in the corner of a “ whare ” at
Taupo,linearly 30 miles from the active volcanoes)
shall hold it /"
An Empty Plate?—Never!
Why shouldn’t something be put on the plate to be presented to the Prince of Wales “in acknowledgment of his services to the
colonies?”
“Lady Munro,” a well-known alleged
member of the upper circles, has been run in at
Melbourne for prigging books from a hawker.
This lady—we presume we must so describe her—
claims to he sister to Lady Mordauut, the friend of
“ Wales,” and to Lady Dudley, but unhappily she
has wasted her ancestral patrimony by rash specu-
lations in long beers, and has come out a loser
through holding gin for a rise at inopportune
moments. Lady Dudley, we understand, intends
visiting Australia shortly, and it will be a sad cir-
cumstance should she arrive and find sister Eliza
in gaol. Perhaps she may succeed, however, la
baling out the last-named vessel of wrath, and
then we trust she may send her home to take her
proper station in “ sassiety.”
It seems that little Howard Vincent, our
recent globe-trotting visitor, was sent to Dublin
by the last Tory Government on a secret mission
to the Parnellltes. Since this very shady business
has been thrown in the teeth of Salisbury and Ca.
Vincent has been Instructed to swear that he was
“acting for himself alone” in Dublin. Nobody
aecepts the statement, of course. Howard Vin-
cent is one of the most inflated little political
frauds who ever drivelled Imperial platitudes,
but even he would scarcely have the impudence
to open negotiations with Parnell on his own hook.
For a parallel case to that we should have to
imagine Hennlker Heaton trying to arrange a
private settlement of the Eastern Question wi:.h
the Russian Chancellor. And this Howard Vincent
is a self-constituted “ champion ” of these colonies.
Preserve us from our friends 1
M. Ismael, the French singer, dropped into
the Touiouse theatre, a few weeks back, to hear
his past and present wives warble in “ Faust.” The
only woman he ever loved played Marguerite—the
other woman he ever loved represented Siebel.
Paris papers made much of the taot that M.
Ismael 'applauded both of his wives with impar-
tiality. Pourquoi non ? Does hoc the Sultan re-
quire that honours should be shown to the lady at
whom he has once flung the royal handkerchief?
Genius holds liberal views on affairs of the heart.
After the poet Shelley had “broken off” with his
first wife and started housekeeping with Mary
Godwin, he wanted his lawyer to arrange for Mrs.
Shelley to return to her husband's dovecot as a
sort of friend of the family. Members of “ Shelley
Societies’’ (they are organising one In Melbourne)
will behold in M. Ishmael a true artist and a man
of soul.
Another aristocratic divorce case is in
progress In London. Lady Colin Campbell some
time ago obtained a decree nisi against her hus-
band, the brother of Lome, and brother-in-law of
Princess Beatrice, and now that gentleman seeks
to protect the noble name which has descended to
him from many generations of Highland cattle-
stealers, by entering a cross action against his
wife, whom he charges with adultery. The noble-
man lumps together as co-respondents Captain
Shaw, of the London Fire Brigade, General
Butler, Lady Campbell’s physician, and “ Wales’ ”
friend, the Duke of Marlborough, who was just
creeping hack into ostensible decency when this
avalanche of rorrow fell upon him. Meanwhile
Lady Campbell is amusing herself by writing a
fashionable novel which will probably make a
good many of her alleged friends wish they had
never been born, or that they had died in in-
fancy.
The Earl of Lonsdale promises to leave his
little footprints on the sands of “society.” He
first came prominently before the public in con-
nection with an action against Edmund Yates, of
the World. Poor old Tates served four months’
imprisonment for publishing a paragraph reflect-
ing on this immaculate nobleman’s “ character.
Since then Lonsdale has vindicated the said
“ character” to the best o f his limited abilities. A
while back he had a rough-and-tumble with Sir
George Chetwynd in Hyde Park, the subject of
difference being our old photographic friend, Mrs.
Langtry, Now he is in a disgraceful mess through
Don Juanising with another married celebrity,
Violet Cameron. English upper-class morality
must be at a low ebb whan such a man as this can
pose as an injured innocent in a law court ana
swear away the liberty of a distinguished literary
man. The present noble peer tumbled into his
title by a fluke. The late Earl or Lonsdale was a
fellow of magnificent physique, who brought him-
self to a terrible death through debauchery, before
he had time to bequeath his vices to a male child.
It is a matter of history that he had to be care-
fully shaken up by his best man during the mar-
riage ceremony, to prevent him from falling into
a drunken stupor. But of such is the House of
Lords, ‘
The photographs of Violet Cameron are
selling freely on the strength of the Sydney
Evening Nooze's sploy narrative. ’Twas a sad
sad story. We knew Violet when she was very
young, and very Innocent, and always went to and
from the theatre under mamma’s escort Violet
first appeared in •’antomime as a child-performer,
and a charming young maiden she was. Later on
she was promoted to opera boufle, and began to
put away childish things. But it was a long while
before giddy rumours were whispered about Miss
Cameron. Mamma still “ went everywhere ” with
her, and people prognosticated a grand match for
Violet as the reward of so much maternal care.
As a matter of fact, we believe that the Earl of
Durham was nearly brought up to the scratch
once. However, It didn’t come off, and Durham
married a young lady who developed symptoms
of Insanity on her wedding day, and is now put-
ting in her time in a lunatic asylum. (He sued for
a divorce unsuccessfully, it may be remembered).
After the Earl Durham episode, Violet began to
despair of sporting a coronet, and some 12 months
back she entered the married state as a plain
Madame de Bensaude. Evidently, though, the
fair young matron has acquired a pronounced
taste for aristocracy; hence her husband’s ejection
from his own wife’s apartment by my Lord of
Lonsdale. The poet who described the violet as a
modest little flower couldn’t have been thinking
of Miss Cameron in her present frame of mind.
By the way, Lonsdale’s friend, Edmund Yates,
of the W orijP, Is just about the bitterest
writer who lives in England to-day. If he
now elects—as, being a Jew, he probably will—
to take his revenge, all we can say is, Heaven have
mercy upon the Earl of Lonsdale! If the facts
be as alleged, Tates will make it a crime for any
decent woman to be seen in the same park with
“ lordship.”
The Australian
cricketers’ cup of bitter-
ness has at last been filled
to overflowing. They are
being licked by the coun-
ties and they have been
entertained at lunch by
Henniker Heaton.
“ China recognises
the recent establishment
of British rule in the
Kingdom of Burmah.”
Certainly. How in the
name of the pig-tailed
Confucius could they
help recognising it ?
Lord Harris, of
cricketing celebrity, has
been appointed British
Under-Secretary for War.
If he isn’t more civil to
Bismarck and the Czar
than he was to profes-
sional bowlers, hotel
waiters, and other “ com-
mon people” in Australia,
he will be getting his
head punched.
“What a lovely
woman I” was the excla-
mation of Judge Kerferd,
of Victoria, upon passing
a noted beauty, when
walking down Murray-
street, Hobart, with
Graham Berry, a few
months ago. “Whatan
excellent judge I’’ said
the lady, wnen her sensi-
tive ear caught the flat-
tering decree of the erst-
while friend of C. E,
Jones.
Sexton, the brilliant
Irishman, says Randolph
Churchill “ has the man-
ners of a street-arab and
the morals of a welaher.”
The best Churchill’s ad-
mirers can do is to say
of him as Sydney Smith
said of Jeffrey: “ Look at
my little friend, he hasn’t
body enough to cover his
mind decently with; his
intellect is indecently ex-
posed.”
The Canterbury
Times is publishing the
autobiography of that in-
famous and ever-to-be
execrated wretch, Rich-
ard Burgess, the Maun-
gatapu arch-murderer.
The Maungatapu gang
were hanged Just twenty
years ago. Burgess, who
was a canting rufflan-on
the gallows he kissed the
rope and “welcomed It
as a prelude to Heaven ”
—says he never knew
who his father was ; his
mother was a lady’s maid
to the iamlly of Lord
Gro venor. “Whilethere,
1 take it, she fell a victim
to the blandishments of
some one connected with
the Horse Guards. I be-
lieve I was the fruit of
her betrayal, by a wretch
worse than myself.ln that
he neglected her in alter
life.” Yes, very likely
indeed -Mr. Burgess was
a high-Tory on his father s
side, and felt anlrresia-
tlble impulse to rob some-
body. Blood will tell. If
he hadn’t been left-
handed and bad come In
for the family title he
might now be a pro-
nounced Imperial Fed-
eration^—he might even
be Governor of an Aus-
tralian colony, or on the
committee of the Carlton
Club.
Sir Thomas 11‘Ilwraith knows exactly how
many spikes the different Western Queensland
saltbush burrs have. Those with the three long
ones are the worst, as they are armed at all points,
and drive a little further in than the rest, tir
Thomas was up paying l a visit to his Cork station,
and in going over the property had occasion to
camp out. During the night he found it necessary
to get up, and stepping from his blankets, pfaced
upon the ground one of bis bare feet, which was
immediately bristling with burrs. He then rushed
the other out to save himself, when it shared a
similar fate. He had to sit down, when still another
portion of his body was also put to the torture.
Th® rest of the party were by this time thoroughly
aroused by Sir Thomas and his ucparliamentsry
expressions, and by the aid of firesticss ana
matches relieved him in a great measure ox ms
torture, or the cause of it. Sir Thomas careiuliy
puts on his boots now t efore leaving me b.ankeis
when camping out west.
TO DILKE.
Oh! Charley, we’re afraid
That your career is o’er.
That In the British Parliament
You will be found no more.
Like many others who
Are loafing thereabout,
You’ll have to leave old England s shores.
Or else she’ll kick you out.
But take you heart of grace;
We offer you a line
In which, with your attainments, to
Politically shine.
To South Australia go;
There certainly you may
(You’re .lust the very sort they like)
Become an M.H.A.


la a church down South a devotee came
to mass rather late. His seat was occupied. After
a great deal of argument, which didn’t move the
“ bould invader,” he wound up by sating: “Now
loot, I pay 15j, a quarter for that sate, au’ you
better vacate it m’ not be loaflu’ in the house of
God.”
BRIEF MEN TION.
A tax scorned by Abigail—Syntax.
Holy Adelaide has revised the Ten Com-
mandments—by leaving the “ not ” out.
K.C.M.Q. —“ Kolonial Convicts Made Gen-
tlemen.” That Is the interpretation in High Tory
circles.
Near Wagga (N.8.W.), some derisive spirit
has inscribed on a gum-tree the blighting initials
C.M.G. The tree is now pining miserably away.
Twenty-live mules have been shipped to
Sydney. They will probably enter the Legislative
Council in the interests of Imperial Federation.
A stranger, looking at a certain N.B.W.
coasting steamboat, wonders what en earth makes
her lop-sided. A passage on same shows him
that the grog-bar is located on the low side.
The site on which Auckland city (N.Z.)
now stands was originally purchased from the
Maoris for 50 sovereigns, 50 pairs of blankets. 50
pairs trousers, 30 shirt*, six kegs tobacco, and 30
hatchets.
The original air of “ We don’t want to
fight, but by Jingo If we do.” Is“ Judge me, O
Lord,” from Mozart’s “Twelfth Mass. If the
grand old composer but knew I
A writer in a Kiama paper asks “ What
hss Sir Henry done for Kiama?” Made it immor-
tal, of course, as the scene of a great ghost story.
Who’d ev»r have heard of Kiama If it hadn t been
for that ?
“ Man is more ignorant than he thinks,
and knows more than he is aware of,” says a
learned pundit in the Cooma (N.B.W) paper. The
first statement is probably autobiography, the
second a desperate hope.
An attempt is made to float a company in
Melbourne for the purpose of supplying Passover
cakes to the Jewish community throughout vic-
toria. The new venture will probably be termed
the Israel Victuals Company. Limited.
The stone-pillars at the new R.C. Church,
Wagga, “ have been found unfit for the structure,
and will have to be removed.*' We suppose they’ll
he sent to Dry Creek Gaol, Adelaide. That’s where
most of the rotten pillars of the church go nowa-
days.
The Melbourne Herald evidently sends
its most impressionable young ladies to “ do ”
inquests. One of the witnesses at a recent hospital
inquiry is described as *a “ desirable-looking
youth.’ ’ There is wondrous femininity about that
phrase.
“ Did you take down the prisoner’s name
when you arrested him ?’’ Mr. Yates, D.S.M., asked
of a gallant constable the other morning at Sydney
Central Police Court. “No, your wordchlp,” re-
plied Bob, “I took himself and his name to the
station altogether.”
Lesson on gravitation.—Teacher: “Now,
hoys, you have all heard of Sir Isaac Newton and
the reason he assigned for the apple falling to the
ground. Can you tell me the reason ? Johnny
Pippin (whose father has an orchard): Yes, sir-
flying foxes, sir I”
A Sydney paper this week publishes a
scientific item headed “A Fossil Trunk.” We had
not time to read it through, but we understand it
is a description of the Imperial Federal Council as
it will appear 100 years hence when the head and
legs have decayed away.
The Lancet announces the discovery of a
new form of insanity, “Mania Concionahunda.”
The symptoms are an insatiable desire to address
public meetings, and a burning conviction that
the patient is destined to be the political saviour
of his age. For instance, John Ooncionabundaoious
Nelld Caulfield Knapp.
“The Archbishop of Canterbury and Mrs.
Benson will have garden parties at Lambeth
Palace on Saturdays, the 36th of June, and the 10th
of July, from four to seven o’clock.” This re-
minds ua of something—yes. the garden of Qeth-
semaEc. But there isn’t much Qethsemane about
His Grace of Canterbury.
We have received from Mr. Rowney, Bris-
bane, a fat pamphlet containing a full account of
the debates on Christianity between H. A. Long
and Dr. York, in that city. As far as we can see
from the speeches, York says Long doesn’t tell the
truth, and knows It, and Long says York la
another. Then v e presume they divide the gate-
money, and that is the Long and the York of the
whole affair.
A Narrator! policeman suicided, and the
i ury verdicted temporary insanity, ridering thusiy:
—“That this jury are of opinion that if the de-
ceased had an assistant to help him with his duties,
he would not have committed the rash act.” This
is a very roundabout way of getting an extra
pollct man, and it is a distinct, though indirect,
vote of censure upon the road-and-bridge abilities
of tbe local M.P.
A Wollongong (N.S.W.) paper reports that
some antique judicial mummy in that town
has sentenced a man to pay sa. fine or sit in the
stocks for two hours because he performed some
“ unnecessary ” work on Sunday. The local
Dogberry la acting, it appears, on an old law
enacted shortly after the days of Pompey, but as
the prisoner does not possess ss. and there are no
stocks the ukase is likely to miss fire.
Near the Laura River (Q.), the blacks have
killed and partly eaten two Chinese. Even a
Chinaman is of some use in this world. He feeds
the Australian nigger, and the nigger robs the
white mar, and the white man shoots the nigger—
well, In some way or other the Mongol seems to
keep the Providential machine going, but we have
no time to think it out.
At Evandale, Tasmania, a sexton who had
been requested to demolish the local parson's
dog performed the work by knocking the animal’s
head against a stump and then burying it alive
along with a poor man whom ke was planting out.
He was fined 335. We are glad to hear, however,
that he put the dog uppermost. Dogs generally
get up a lot earlier than men, and it would have
been mighty awkward had the dead gentleman
been compelled to arise before his time on the day
ot general awakening simply because a darned
clergyman’s pup, thoroughly saturated with
orthodoxy, was in a hurry to obey orders.
A little six-year-old witness was examined
on oath in a Melbourne court last week. The
question as to whether young hopeful was well
posted up in the nature of oaths afforded Judge
Cope an opportunity of airing his Solomon-like
grip of the law. Smiling pleasantly at the little
urchin In the box, the Judge enquired “ where he
expected to go if he told a lie.” “ Into the fire,”
said the witness. His Honor accepted the artless
explanation as being in every way satisfactory.
Evidently it is the first duty of a happy Australian
child to learn as much as he can about hell.
The aborigines of South Australia are in
a bad, bad way. The Harmy has got hold of them
and the work of conversion la being carried on
with much vigour. Corroborees are giving place
to holinets meetings and knee-drills. The boo-
merang has been laid aside for the cymbals. The
nullah is .commonly used as a drum-stick. The
dark-eyed lubra wears a blue poke bonnet. There
is. In fact, what the War Cry calls “a great
spread of evangelisation” among these poor
blacks, which must Inevitably result in their
speedy extermination. The prime mover In this
blessed work is a certain “Hadjutant” Lindsay,
Known to the hoard’s new children as “White
fellow Allelujah.”
Here’s another lift we, the chosen race,
are giving to our black brother as we trudge along
to the ! and where there is no black nor yellow,
but where everyone is as white as a clean-boiled
shirt and plays on a harp that keeps itself in
strings. The Western Champion (Q.) says that it
has been found necessary to legislate there to
prevent opium-trading with the aborigines, some
squatters having been in the habit of paying
them by supplying them with “ refuse ” opium,
the result being that many of these poor devils
have died through its over use.
From a keen and prolonged scrutiny of
the up-oountry press, we learn that the Cooma
Express has not been regularly delivered at Jin-
dabyne; that the road from Cooma to Bobundarah
is in a dangerous condition; that Hewitson, of
Wambrook, has lost 700 sheep; that Mr. Dwyer’s
horse bolted down the streets of Gunnedah and
narrowly escaped smashing Into a shoo window;
and to finish the catalogue of horrors, the Sydney
Globe has been robbing a poor woman, it having
bagged numerous paragraphs from the editress of
the Sunny Corner paper. It gives us a feeling of
almost unearthly thankfulness that we can stay
here in Sydney and dream away the happy days
unruffled by the raging of the frantic tumults of a
rural life. With the sole exception that the Even-
ing News still comes out, everything around
breathes tranquillity. But we can’t have every-
thing in this world.
The S. A. Legislative Assembly have—O
Snuffle I—appointed a special commission to draw
up the prayer for the opening of the Jubilee
Exhibition, and these gentlemen, after deep
research and much consideration, sent in a quire
of ethereal slush with a large amen banging down
at the end. This was solemnly read out in the
House and then the members shook their heads.
Most of them were distinctly of opinion that
something much better than that would be ex-
pected from Adelaide, and one even remarked
in an undertone that the fellow who put in the
paragraph about “ miserable sinners ” didn’t know
enough to be trusted with the job of combing his
own hair. Then a vote was taken and by a
majority of six votes the obnoxious document was
put into the stove. The commission are now at
work building up a really high-toned prayer with
just a little humility round the brim, and a touch
of kangaroo pathos on top, and after it is delivered
the affair will probably be published in three
volumes as a history of Christianity in South
Australia.
Mrs. Jopling, the well-known fashionable
English portrait-painter, is coming to Sydney—
possibly to limn rich people who can’t face truth
as doled out by the photographer. She is the
daughter of Mr. T, 8. Goode, a civil engineer who
died early, leaving his widow with nine young
children. The present Mrs. Jopling took early to
art, but, thwarted rather than encouraged by her
father, she renounced the pencil for the pen,
“ and at 15 wrote a thrilling love story which made
its appearance in the columns of the Family
Hbrald of those days.” From writing love
stories the transition to loving and being loved
was rapid. The girl-writer was engaged when In
short frocks; at the age of 17 she became the bride
MRS. JOPLING.
of Mr. Frank Homer, private secretary to Baron
Nathaniel de Rothschild in Paris, and again taking
up art, returned, after studying in Paris, to Lon-
don, where, in 1869, she had a woodcut printed in
Punch, then under the direction of Mark Lemon,
her uncle by marriage. Since then she has made
rapid strides in her profession. A year after the
death of her flrst husband she was wooed and won
by a second husband. This time art married art,
and Mrs. Romer, the successful painter in oils, be-
came Mrs J. Middleton Jopling, the wife of the
weli-known water-colour painter, whose death
not so very long ago has made Mrs. Jopling a
widow for the second time. Mrs. Jopling is pas-
sionately fond of riding and of dancing, is a very
good musician, a sweet singer, a writer of charm-
ing verses, and an accomplished amateur actress.
She enacted an astonishing and audacious imper-
sonation a few years ago. Her figure is graceful,
slender, and svelte, her face so much like the
famous violinist Sarasate that they might be taken
for sister and brother, and they have often been
told of their resemblance. One night Herr
Joachim and his wife gave a dinner-party, and a
reception afterwards, agreeing to announce to
their guests that Sarasate, although he had been
abroad, would be in London and at their house
that night. Immediately after dinner Mrs. Jopling
retired, disguised herself, and came down amongst
the guests as Senor Sarasate; and so well did she
enact her role that Patti, Miss Zimmerman, and
Indeed all the musical celebrities of the day, quite
believed that the great violinist was in their pre-
sence.
At Beaumaris (North Wales) the Anglican
clergyman dees not adopt the apostolic plan of
hiring a Judas to carry the bag; he is his own
Iscariot, and takes every possible care of the
funds A few weeks ago the collection scuttle
was passed round in the usual manner, and when
it came back it was, unhappily, almost as bald as
when it started. The reverend gentlemen looked
thoughtfully into it for a few moments, and then,
grabbing the offering, he started up the pulpit.
There he deliberately counted the amount, ealiln
over the threepenny bits and other small coin, an-
nounced the total, and expatiated on the prepon-
derance of copper, a circumstance which was
chufly owing to the meanness of “that batch
over there.” Finally he made some remarks that
sounded like an intimation that he would give up
gospei and take to glass-blowing or some other
decent employment, and cut his sacred stick,
leaving the congregation to disperse without a
sermon. It seems hardly likely that pay
In advance again at Beaumaris.
According to Mr. Gillies’ budget speech,
£BOOO has been placed on the Victorian estimates
to provide vermin-proof fencing. However, he
aid not gay whether or not any of It would be
placed around Parliament Houses, Melbourne,
The Numurkah (Yio.) Herald, in a recent
issue, told Its perspiring readers that “the inability
of Chinamen to pronounce the letters ‘ v ’ and ‘ r ’
sometimes leads to amusing blunders.” This is, no
doubt, by way of editorial apology for the comical
errors that have lately appeared in its leading
columns.
The Sydney Tribune continues to run its
customary infant-column with a vigour that
would do credit to an Orange riot or a country
cattle show. Every week there appear about a
dozen specimens of correspondence written by
babies, twins, and other unavoidable evils, with
interesting comments by the editor of the whoop-
ing-cough department at the end of each, and it
is really heartrending to contemplate the crop of
juvenile liars which the Tribune is thus rearing
in N.S.W. Among the best of its recent efforts is
the following, written by a youth whose Dutch
name sounds like a distant explosion in a cup and
saucer warehouse Dear Mr. Editor,—l hope
you will print this letter. My pa is agent for your
paper. We had 15 cats once, but they all died, but
three. I have 10 sisters. We have a post-office. I
am nine years old. The vermin are eating our
barley. I go to school. I am in the first class. I
saw a wallaby on Wednesday and I nearly knocked
him down with a cob of corn. One of our cows
fell over a log and broke her collar-bone. We
have two clocks, and one strikes 37 sometimes.—l
remain, yours truly.” A youth nine years of age,
with 10 sisters, 13 dead cats, three live ditto, and a
clock that strikes 37, is a credit to the country. If
the Tribune man will try the simple experiment
of multiplying the sisters by the dead cate, then
add on the insane clock, and divide by Ananias
and Baron Munchausen, he will get a result that
will be worth publishing in his next issue.
The Melbourne Age is beginning to run
its Sydney contemporaries very close in poetising
over Victorian deaders. To judge from some re-
cent productions it has engaged a new dancing
dervish, and the wild Mohammedan is now on the
full hop, musing over broken legs and miscel-
laneous fatalities. He is a cultured poet, too, and
is capable of expressing a whole emotion on the
brief end of a brick, as will be seen by the follow-
ing sample;—
“ To part with dear Hugh was a trial severe.
Although he is better in yonder bright sphere;
Our loss is his gain, he’s an angel above:
He drinks perfect bliss at the fountain of love.
Oh, may our dear son be a link in that chain,
That will bind us to Heaven till we meet him
again.”
The remark about drinking is a little awkward,
for it seems to suggest that the gone-before is
beering up along with Lazarus, but otherwise the
sentiment is rather a neat one. We, therefore,
handed it over to our metrical washerwoman, and
requested that she would start the poetic cowbell
in a slccllar strain, and she, accordingly, sent in
the following written on a starched dicky:—
“ Evil fortune has o’ertaken Samuel Alexander
Brown,
And the Samuel Brown aforesaid to the grave
has travelled down,
In the land where spirits wander roams the
ghost of Alexander;
And no earthly cares or sorrows evermore shall
rouse his dander.
Gone to gnaw celestial victuals midst celestial
beer and skittles,
Gone to wear a harp and crown,
Hicjacet Alexander Brown.”
The poetess wished also to append a coupie of lines
in which she explained that—
“ He crossed the Styx so murky
While swallerln’ of a turkey,”
Brown having died suddenly from a rush of bone
to the windpipe while devouring a large jubilee
fowl. The verdict of tde coroner's jury was
simply “stuffooation,” and it might possibly have
bean advisable to mention that circumstance in
the epitaph, but, after mature deliberation, we
resolved not to bring the fact too prominently
forward for fear of hurting the feelings of sorrow-
ing relatives. One or two words In the original
manuscript, unfortunately, were almost Illegible,
the inspiration of the authoress having carried her
right over a row of buttons that extended down
the centre of the dickey, and, therefore, a little of
the poetic fervour has been unavoidably sacrificed,
but, nevertheless, we place the production before
the public as a true example of what a corpse-
opera ought to be.
CORRESPONDENCE
[Correspondent* who aive neither name nor nont-de-
Vlwne cannot expect to have their eon-
km nicationi noticed .l
Sketch received. We don’t
know the “ personage,” and from the look of him
we strongly suspect that the less known of him
the better “Nabob”: Very good “Bogan
Cocky”: Thanks. Write again.... “ Leaflet”: Tour
“burning thoughts” have been duly burnt....
“Spinifex”: May be true as gospel, but silence is
golden with such matter under present law
“A.J.W.”: Will gratefully use a couple of your
pars—“ Vice-regal Petitioner We regret that
there is no tangible ground upon which wo can
venture to publish your MS. The facts stated are
doubtless true, but it is impossible for any [news-
paper to endoise them as you desire. Your friends
had better prepare a petition “Bushman”
(Eohuoa): Have already discussed the question in
our leading columns “ Poetical Liar”; You may
be the latter, but we would hesitate to erealt you
with the adjective. Not acceptable this time
"Cato Devenish” (Vic.); Good item but poetical
attachment spoils Its eifect. Will re-write
“5.8.”: No, Sydney has no shoe-blacks’ brigade.
..." Loyalty ” (Castlemaine): Next issue “ U.S
Club ” (Adelaide): Thanks for clipping...." R.A.”;
If you do, the undertaker will call for orders....
“Cayenne” (Lismore): Thanks “ R.J.S.”: The
Orange and Reehabite votes in N.SW. are pretty
well the same thing.... “ A.A.R.”: Arrived too late
for treatment “ G. Plummer ”: Will obtain the
figures..“U.B.A.”;Thanks. The balance, however,
wouldn’t buy the pawn-ticket of a Soudan medal.
.. “ Justice”: The fact that a man marries under an
assumed name does not Invalidate the contract.
A man’s name is whatever he likes to call himself.
You can’t convict T. Brown of perjury if he
swears his name to be T. Jones “T.T.F.”;
Thanks. We don’t mean to further advertise this
Jacob man—“S.S.B.”; We did make something
out of it. We made a fire ..."Illawarra”: No,
there is no monopoly of stores granted to railway-
contractors. If they choose to establish stores of
their own, no clause in their contract, expressly or
by implication, directs or enables them to present
with a richly-embroidered sack any men who may
prefer to deal with other stores “B.B.’’(St.
Leonards): We are much obliged for the photo ....
“A.S.J.": A lot of the Australians are “loyal”
to the British Crown because it’s a long way off.
The people who live in Rome don’t think much of
the Pope ; the most devoted Romanists are those
who live furthest from the Eternal City.....“ Se-
aman”; See issue of 31st July. Will probably revert
to the matter as soon as a new phase is developed,
....“Puck”: Same old thing. You kissed your
girl, did you ? We really dont’t value the poetry
unless you can send along the kiss with it...
“ J.H.W.”; Good item spoilt by bad writing ...
“WH.” (Burwood): “Timeo Danaos et dona
ferentes.” This little observation, “I fear the
Greeks even when they bear gifts,” would apply
equally well to the Jews.... “R, K.” (Oooma); As to
the story of two animals existing which are oats in
front and rabbits behind, our own opinion is that
either the front half of each brute is telling a tre-
mendous fib or else the back half is a forgery. An
eminent naturalist says that “ Even when the in-
dividuals of different species are capable of pro-
ducing a hybrid offspring, their union is not
voluntary,” and if you care to build an opinion of
your own on that foundation, it is at your ser-
vice. ...“B. Perry, jun.”: Impossible to afford
necessary space for such matter “Dog-
wood ”: We don’t quite understand what
you mean by saying that Martha’s silk robe-de-
nuit among the gooseberry bushes would tickle
our artists, but we will look at the passage
“Victim”: Will go into the trouble during next
month. You will be held harmless...." Water
Swivel ”: Handed to artist “ T.M.”: Will con-
sider *' Samuel French Yes, the law against
fortune-telling would cover such a case as you
suggest. There is, however, considerable doubt
as to the power of enforcing that particular
enactment, so much so that your bet may fairly be
0ff.... “ James Eastwood ”: Conspiracy to defraud
s not a felony but a misdemeanour. In the
N B.W. railway conspiracy cases the jury will be
discharged on the evening of every day over which
the trial extends “The Banjo”: Please call on
editor “Towers Gaffer”: Are you an abori-
ginal, a Chinaman, or simply what Parkcs calls
a yahoo? “P. A. M.“: Subject stale, verse
mediocre. Basket T.M.”: Thanks. Next week...
“J.H.M.” (Byora): Thanks, but we have a whole
heap of ill-used niggers on hand j ust now, and we
want to get through with them before we attack
anymore. Will probably use later on “Armi-
dale”: Who on earth is “ Brother Francis ?”
“U.M.”; Thanks "R.A.”: They only flog in
one American state—Delaware, which is.’a Jim-
Crow place, not much bigger than a Texan cattle-
ranche “T.M.R.” (Townsville): Thanks for the
tombstone and inscription. When the man dies,
send him along “R.W.”: Orange vote com-
paratively harmless now. More than half the
influential Orangemen are Protectionists, so
Parkes is being waddled with his own big stick
" G.W.”: Glad to hear your views on the subject.
“C.W.H.”: Your MS. got torn somehow, and
then it dropped into a basket....“ Subscriber”
(Bourke): Will Insert.


T
William sow, Gabnmr and Musgbovi, Managers.
Lessee, Mi; S. Lazar. Treasurer. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager, Mr. W. Seagrave.
LAST 3 NIGHTS
LAST 3 NIuHCS
of the grand spectacular Drama,
by arrangement with M'MAHON and LBITCH,
THE PEARL DIVERS.
THE PEARL DIVERS.
Adapted and arranged for representation by
MR GEORGE LEITCH,
and a powerful oast of the members of the
ROYAL DRAMATIC COMPANY.
Prices as usual: 5 i., 35., Is.
Tickets for all parts of the hruse at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box plan open at Theatre daily, from 10
to 5. Telephone No. 114.
HBATRB R 0 T A L
B W
OPERA
HOUSE.
w
Lessees ... Messrs. E. Majeroni and W. J. Wilson.
Under the management of
* Messrs. Williamson, Lamer, and Musgrove.
THE CANDIDATE _
Unanimously Elected to the Premier Position in
the Estimation of Sydney Playgoers.
A Radical Member with strong Conservative
Opinions.
3ad WEEK of the CANDIDATE.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING, AUGUST 13,
Mr. HARRY SAINT MAUR.
and the
ROYAL COMEDY COMPANY,
in the brilliant Criterion Comedy,
THE CANDIDATE,
written by Justin M‘Car thy, M.P.
Assistant Stage Patterson.
Business Manager for W,, G , and M.-Mr. W.
Hug he 8.
Royal standard theatre-
CABTLBREAOH-BTBEET,
Between Liverpool and Bathurst streets.
Lessee Mr. Frank Smith.
Manager for Mr. E. Smith... Mr. J. Grant.
Under the Managementof Mr - D * m^f *• ,
Business Mana^ r ABT Ni G HT^'
VOICES OF THE NIGHT
TO I FRIDAY I MORROW,
GRAND FASHIONABLE NIGHT,
Shakespeare’s comedy in 5 acts,
THE MERCHANT OF y ENICK
Shylock .. .. •• Mr. DAMPLER.
SATURDAY EVENING
FOR THE TERM OF V HIS NATURAL LIFE.
‘•AND A VERY GOOD THING, TOO.”
PRINCESS THEATRI
(late Olympic), York-street.
Lessee and Proprietor Cnarles Hugo,
SEVENTH WEEK
of
HUGO’S BUFFALO MINSTRELS
at d
CIRCLE OF ACCOMPLISHED LADIES.
London Popular Prices.
Orchestra Stalls, 3j; Centre Chairs, Is; Gallery, 0d
Grand Change of Programme Weekly.
HAROLD ASHTON, Business Manager.
Gr
T T
A 1 B
Lease© • • •
Business Manager.
HBAT K B .
, Mr. John Solomon
, Mr. B. N. Jones.
ANOTHER CHANGE OF BILL
POSITIVELY LAST NIGHTS of
JOHN F. SHERIDAN,
The Original WIDOW O BRIEN.
In the Famous MUSICAL COMEDY,
FUN ON THE BRISTOL.
Representative for Mr. John F. Sheridan,
H, J. SAMUBLL.
OADBM7 OP
M U 8 I 0.
Proprietor and Manager.. F. B. Hiscocks.
Business Manager .. .. A. L. Cunard.
733 NIGHTS 733
of the Veritable
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
in conjunction with the
RAYNOR BROTHERS,
the Eccentric
COMEDIANS and MUSICAL ARTISTES.
Reserved seats at Nicholson’s, cor. King & Geo. sts.
T
HB ALHAMBRA MUSIC
George-atreet, Haymarket.
HALL
Proprietor and Manager ...
Business and Stage Manager
Mr. Frank Smith.
Mr. E. Shipp.
The MATTHEWS’ 3ad WEEK,
in their Amusing Entertainment, including their
original comic Bellringing and Marvellous
Electric Bats.
THE BLONDIN DONKEY, 3ad WEEK.
UNPRECEDENTED ENTHUSIASM.
In conjunction therewith our usual Circle of
Entertainers will Appear Every Evening.
Our Tickets held by the public will please present
as early as possible.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 2s; stalls,ls;
balcony. 6d.
Every Sunday Night, Grand Concert Splrltnel,
at 7.30 o’clock.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), a Complimentary
Benefit for the Wiaow of Mr. Robert Simpson,
Silled at Croydon station.
T7IARLEYS ENGLISH OPERA COMPANY.
NEW MASONIC HALL,
Castlereag h-street.
TO-NIGBT,
“LE3 CLOCHKB DB CORNBVILLE,”
one of the most pronounced successes.
“LBS CLOOHES DE CORNB VILLB.”
Every Gem of the Opera encored.
“LEB CLOCHES DB CORNEYILLE.”
MARQUIS... Mr. FARLEY,
Suppoited by a full and complete cast.
Specially Selected and Trained Chorus.
Powerful and Efficient Orchestra.
Conductor
Leader
Mons. Leon Caron
Mons. De Willcmoff.
LES CLOCHES DB CORNEFILLE.
Prices, 55., 3/.. 35., aud Is. Plan of reserved
(55.) seats at A. Huenerbeln and Corbett's, George-
street.
Doors open at 7 30 p.m. ; overture at 8 precisely.
Carriages may be ordered for 11 p.m.
FRANK STUART.
Business Manager.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 14,
“THE BOHEMIAN GIRL.”
“THE BOHEMIAN GIRL.”
M
18SES
JORAN'S
FAREWELL.
TO-NIGHT-Y.M.C.A. HALL,
LAST APPEARANCE
of the
MARVELLOUS LULA, PAULINE, and ELISB,
and of the Gifted Vocalist,
MADAME CHRISTIAN.
First Appearance of the charming Soprano,
MDLLB. ALDINI.
ss. and 33. 6d. as the Hall will be crowded,
Tickets should be purchased beforehand.
R. S. SMYTHB.
SCIENTIFIC AND MECHANICAL
EXHIBITION,
Under the distinguished patronage
of
HIS EXCELLENCY THE GOVERNOR
and
LADY CARRINGTON.
NOW OPEN TO THE PUBLIC DAILY,
at the
EXHIBITION BUILDING,
PRINCE ALFRED PARK,
from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.,
and In the evening from 7 to 10.
THE EXHIBITION
comprises
Various kinds of Machinery in motion,
Ships’ Models.
Bleetrical and Scientific Appliances.
Drawings, Photographs, &o.
A FIRST-CLASS BAND IN ATTEND INCE.
Botany and Waterloo Trams stop at C ates.
Admission—Adults, Is. School children under 14
in charge of adults will be admitted iree.
Catalogues may be purchased In the Building.
Refreshment Rooms under the supervision of the
COMPAGNONI CATERING CU.
GUSTAVE FISCHER.
Honorary Secretary.
Lynch family bellringers
(Organised 1867).
Manager
WILL
Harry Lynch*
SHORTLY
REAPPEAR
in
See future announcements.
SYDNEY.
JAME 3 SMITH I A _ ent .
H. B. BARNES J Agents *
T
HOU G H T
(Stuart Cumberland’s Rival)
READING.
PROF. T. PROUD’S
EXTRAORDINARY ILLUSTRATION OP
DIVINING UNUTTBRKD THOUGHTS.
Western Tour.-Return Visit.
SCHOOL OF ARTS, COVVRA,
THURSDAY, 13th August.
Forbes, Cudal, Orange, &c , to follow.
I do everything done by Stuart Cumberland in
Sydney.
/■ \HE WORLD-RENOWNED FAUST FAMILY,
| and HERR YONDER MEHDKN,
now on their first tour through the Australian
colonies.
Thursday 13th, St. Mary’s.
Friday, 13tb, Liverpool.
Saturday, 14th, Camden,
Clifton, Buili, and Wollongong to follow.
Manager, E FAUST.
Agent R. BERNARD.
M
IBS ANNBTTA SCASI open to Engagements
on 16th.
Address letters, care of Mr. Fxank Smith,
Alhambra, or 368 Elizabeth-street.
First annual cavalry tottrnament
and MILITARY SPORTS,
to be hold at the
AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY'S GROUNDS,
Moore Park.
On SATURDAY. AUGUST 11th,
Under the distinguished patronage and presence
Of the
Right Hon. BARON CARRINGTON. P.C..G C.M G.
Commander-In-Chief, and Hon. Colonel
Cavalry Forces,
And by special permission of Major-General
Richardson, C.B.
17 EVENTS,
Including Cavalry J umping. Tilting at the Ring,
Tent-pegging, Slicing Lemons, Mounted and Dis-
mounted Combats, Sword and Lance Exercises,
Musical Ride, &0., Artillery Gun Competition and
Wheel Races, Infantry Bayonet Competition,
Naval Cutlass Exercises, F-ot Racing, &e.
Admission to Grounds ONE SHILLING; Grand
Stand, 2s. 6d. Horsemen and vehicles at usual rates.
For tickets and general information, apply at
the Cavalry offices, 8 Bllgh-stieet.
SATURDAY, 11th AUGUST, 1886.
Sydney Bicycle Club.
Under the patronage and In the presence of
HIS EXCELLENCY LORD CARRINGTON.
FIFTH Annual Intercolonial Amateur Cham-
pion
BICYCLE and TRICYCLE RACE MEETING.
Will beheld at the
ASSOCIATION GROUND, MOORE PARK,
On SATURDAY NEXT, 11th AUGUST, 1886.
The Ton mile Amateur Championship of New
South Wales, which the Governor is going
specially to witness.
The Two-mile Scratch Rgce
The One-mile Invitation Scratch Race
Six other Grand Events
SPLENDID ENTRIES.
Come and sae all the N. S. Wales Records broken.
NAVAL BRIGADE BAND specially engaged.
Special Tram Arrangements First Race 130 pm.
Admission, Is.; Grand Stand, Is 61. extra.
SATURDAY”Ith AUGUST.
SYDNEY BICYCLE CLUB.
J. WILKES, Hon. See.
WOOLLOOMOOLOO BAY ROWING CLUB
BALL.
Patron : His Excelen"y the Governor*
President: G. N. Griffiths, Eeq.
The First Annual Ball
In connection with this Club will be held in the
VESTIBULE OF THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
On WEDNESDAY EVENING, 18th AUGUST,
In the presence of His Worship tho Mayor of
Sydney, and the Lady Mayoress, who have
kindly consented to be present.
Tickets may he had of the following Committee ;
F. M‘Donald,37 Darllnghurst road; R, J Sheridan
Railway Department; J. B Myers. King-street;
Thos. Punch, Market and Elizabeth street'; H
Chapman, william-street; Thos. Keary, William-
street; Jno. Finnlgan. Railway Department; Wm
Morgan, “ Herald ” office.
FRANK. M'DONALD, 1 rr r , n 'Troaaiii.ora
H. CHAPMAN, j Hon. Treasurers.
B. J. SHERIDAN, Hon. Sec.
W J. HOLLOWAY
• and
MISS ESSIE JENYNS,
supported by their especially selected Company,
in
“A Ring of Iron,” “A Mad Marriage,” “The
Broken Idol,” “ Romeo and Juliet,” “Much Adi
About Nothing,” “As You Like It,” &c., &c.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE, JUNE 7th,
for Thirteen Weeks.
THEATRE ROYAL,
R®«khampton.
THE above favourite house of Amusement has
just been thoroughly renovated, and is now
open to Travelling Companies.
For terms, &c., apply to
CHARLES NASH,
Proprietor.
T> M . RILEY
(late of the Detective Force),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
73 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds Of
confidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
divorce, libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
Kents and debts collected. From R. M. R.’s long experience
in the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
New Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
globe, he is in a position to conduct all inquiries. with caution
expedition, and strictest secresy, and to faithfully and
promptly attend to all business entrusted to his care.
Horatio Gilbert Parker
(OP CANADA),
THE EMINENT POET. LITTERATEUR, and
SHAKESPEAREAN RECITER,
WILL give a series of popular Friday Even-
ing
RECITALS AND LECTURES,
in the elegant Hall of the Y.M.C.A.,
corner Pitt and Bathurst streets, Sydney,
beginning
FRIDAY EVENING, AUGUST 13,
and for three succeeding Friday evenings,
as follows
Friday Evening, August 13,
DICKENS’ CHRISTMAS CAROL.
Friday Evening, August 30,
JULIUS CJE IAR.
Friday Evening, August 37,
LECTURE ; HUMOURISTS OF AMERICA.
Friday Evening, September 3,
OTHELLO or HAMLET.
Box plan and tickets at Paing’s, George-street.
Reserved Seat Tickets for the course, 10j.
Single Tickets, 3j. and 2s,
FOLLY'S SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, Bco, For
terms, &o„ apply to
H. M. CANSDBLL,
Manager and Instructor.
i>«p«mnenc of Public Wonts.
S/dney. August 10, 1888.
Tender., for public works ana sup-
PLIES.-TENDERS are Invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Gov»bnmkwt Gazittb, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly compiled
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Mature of Works ana Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received at
this office
W. J, LTNB.
ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS.
American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
liiiisig.
Z 1 YORK STREET,
; SYDNEY.*
IFIGIALL7 UtPORTIS fOR CITY OB COUNTRY m
THB OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
r
(T
STERLING QUALITY.
LOWEST PRICES.
minim cs
27JT0RK: STREET,
SYDNEY,
nr* BYJLKT VEHICLE QWABJ N J'JS BX>


Marie Brizard 1
Recommended for hot climates—-Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Butler W. Ormonde, Private Enquiry
Agent, 313 George-street, undertakes all kinds of
confidential business, traces absconders, wife
deserters, and missing relatives ; procures copies
of certificates and wills, at moderate rates. Col-
lector of rents and debts. Acts as agent generally
Letters written. The most absolute secrecy ob-
served. Note the address:—3l3 George-street,
second floor.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps and water make the best
and most agreeable drink in hot weather.
Marie Brizardl
NEW SOUTH WALES
Sends her contingent of Volunteers to join
tne Great Army of Grateful Men and
Women who have conquered Disease
and Premature Death with the
timely aid of Warner’s “SAFE”
Remedies.
THE DREAD BRIGHT’S DISEASE YIELDS,
63 Dargharn Street, Lyndhubst, Sydney,
loth March, 1886 —“During'the last eight months
of 1883 I was laid off work, being unable to leave
my bed. I suffered the greatest agony with pains
in my scrotum, down the inside of my thighs,
across my back, up the spine, ending in fearful
headaches ; my water was thick and muddy, I
could not rest in bed, or sit or stand very long in
any position. I tried several doctors, who told me
I was suffering from a severe form of BRIGHT’S
DISEASE ; one advised me to go to the hospital,
as I could not live more than a few months, being
so far gone. A friend of mine sent me a cutting
from an American paper wherein I saw a cure for
BRIGHTS DISEASE. I at once wrote to Mr.
Warner in America, who advised me to get a
dozen Safe Cure from San Francisco. (The medi-
cine can now be obtained of any chemist in Aus-
tralasia); I did so, and took ton bottles, and from
that time to the present I have had no pains or
troublesome symptoms, and feel in every respect
a different man, I have gained thirty-five pounds
in weight, and work hard every day.
THE DISTRESSING DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Alfred Street, St. Leonards East, noi
Shore, Sydney, N.S. W., Bth March, 1886.—“Abv,
three years ago 1 suffered greatly from disease j
the Liver and Kidneys, and without act
suffering much pain, I nevertheless felt a
clinatlon and general unfitness to attend
household duties. My symptoms were a
heavy, painful feeling across my back and
between my shoulders, accompanied with fevero
headaches. At the time I commenced take
Warner s Safe Cube I was suffering Ery-
sipelas in my foot, which, however, aft«§ faking
two bottles of the Safe Cure, entirely
I have now had seven bottles, and feel well,”
I^2
V
J Jt >
UNEQUALLED FOR BRAIN
Fustic School,Waterloo, March
1888.— " I hive been a sufferer igjm am ten years
and duriog the early part of medi
cines from several medical vm* the highesi
reputation in this colony, but wtti£io permanem
result. 1 was told by one of the most eminent ol
them, whom I shall always remember with
gratitude for his unselfish advice, thatnomedicim
then known could cure me, and that drugs wouh
only increase the evil with greater rapidity,
i heretore attained from their use, and wore as hi
directed, a hydropathic bandage and paid strict
attention to diet, eating little animal food so as t(
Ighten the labour of the kidneys. The disease
however, increase 1 as evinced by the fixed dul
heavy pain in the loirs, a burden almost unen
dur«o o. till my atie.it ion was directed to the hintf
on diet, etc , in the pamphlet surrounding a bottle
of WARNER s 'AFE Cur ßj These Impressed me sc
favouraply that I decided to try the medicine, anc
not without considerable fear that I should suffei
for mv temerity. I hazarded the trial of a bottle
the eft sets of which were s o s tisfaotory that 1
continued their use till I had taken nearly eight
bottles. I now And myself free from the old toe
familiar pain, and other symptoms indicate s
speedy recovery.” °
SUFFERED FOR EIGHT YEARS. NOW WELL,
6 Daroham Street, Lyndhurst, Glebe.
Sydney, N.S.W.-3rd March, 1886.-“ It is now
more than eight years since I first became afflicted
with Kidney and Liver complaint, but not until
tne Jast two years have I been obJi&ed to give up
work. My feelings were mostly a feeling of
languor, so great that I cannot express, with
dizziness, and strange kind of mist floating before
m /., e 1 e8 - Be ' n * iQ » “ Lodge,” I had the benefit
of different doctors, but cannot say I was much
improved. Having got one of Warner’s Safe
Cure pamphlets, I studied it with the result that
I tned the midciae, and can say with every
sstiifaetion. Before I finished the first bottle I
felt I was improving and have taken In all
fourteen. Ino longer suffer pain, langour. or
other unpleasant feelings which is entirely due to
the Safe Cure and (*afb Pills. My friends say I
am quits another man, and I feel such to be the
case, soleiv from the usj of Warner s Safe Cube
and Safe Pills.”
ColoniaUSugar Refining Co.,
Pyrmont, Sydney, N.S.I
SAFE CURB PERMANENTLY CURBS GRAVE
Ebmington, Parramatta River, Sydne’
N.S.W., 23rd March, 1888.-“ For the last tweh
years I have been suffering frem pains in my bac
spine and scrotum, do #n the inside of my thigh
feeling so languid and weak as not to be able t
work. 1 could not turn over in bed, neither coul
I lay an hour without vomiting, which gave m
great pain, and sometimes would pass a quantit
of Gravel. Since taking Warner s Safe Cure, m
pains have nearly all left me. 1 can rest well night
and feel in good spirits. My urine is natural, i
fact I consider myself on the road to oompiet
recovery.
WARNER’S SAFE CURE FOR TYPHOID FEVER.
48 Mount Street, Pyrmont, Sydney, N.S.W
Sffld March, 1886.—“ Having suffered from Typhoid
Fever for seven months, during which time I had
tour relapses, it is needless to say how prostrated
I was. I cannot let the opportunity pass without
letting you know what a boon Warner’s Safe
cube was to me, being safe, speedy, and certain.
I am now quite well, and enjoy a cricket match as
much as before my illness.
lenoy either went out there as that sick man’s
mate, or as the representative of the Queen,
at the Governor of New South Wales. The former
supposition is set aside by the subsequent
announcement, and thus we are forced to deal
with the latter. Your Excellency uses guber-
natorial carriage, gubernatorial position, and
gubernatorial scribe to pay superfluous compli-
ments to a young man who has no possible need
of them, because through that young man lies
your road to a cheap popularity. It looks very
nasty when written bold like that; it is not the
sort of thing you are accustomed to. There Is
doubtless an unfamiliar ring about it to your Ex-
cellency’s ears, but do not Imagine that It comes
out of any sour and stupid jealousy, or spleen or
spite. We are free to acknowledge what is best
perhaps termed the "niosnees ’ of your little court.
We like to see your accurate and elegant appoint-
ments in the streets and parks. *We are conscious of
a pleasant and wholesome sensation when we meet
her ladyship, dainty In furs and soft-stuffs, with
the children, whose frocks are pretty and simple
as their looks. That sort of thing goes by like a
gleam of sunshine or the scent of a delicate and
sweet exotic. And when, after her ladyship comes,
the old Potts-pointer, redolent of Patchouly and
radiant with rouge, her overdressed girls and
cheeky brats around her, the contrast is so exqui-
sitely piquant that the smile becomes a deep and
hearty—if an inward—laugh, and our acquiesence
in your presence here is complete. We love all
things beautiful, graceful, honourable, courteous,
chivalrous, kind, and our little difficulty is that
we cannot class that “ blank nonsense ” about the
carriage and footballer under either of those
heads.
Would Gladstone Come to Australia?
Mb. Gladstone, It Is cabled, taaa decided to allow
himself the holiday of which he is so sorely in
need. It Is thought that he will go to Ireland,
where his recent labours should ensure to him a
magnificent reception. But in Ireland he will
have no real rest, and no sufficient change either
of sky or surroundings to recuperate his exhausted
energies. He must go farther if he would gain
mental and physical strength. He should place
half the globe between his mind and its cares if he
desires relaxation. New lands and new people
would be his best inspiration and stimulant, and of
all the, to him,new lands,there seem none more suit-
able for'the purposes of his holiday than Australla-
He would doubtless like to learn something of the
Australians, for he has learnt nothing of them
from the hysterical Jingoism of Dalley, the
systematic and determined grovelling of colonists
who wish to barter their profits on tallow for a
title, nor from the Fboudes and Salas who have
by their writings conspicuously displayed their
own entire ignorance of Australian life and senti-
ment. From none of these things is it possible
for Gladstone to have learnt anything of this
continent: to acquire such knowledge he must see
us with his own eyes, and those eyes will be clear
and keen. It is natural, too, that he should
feel curiosity concerning the thought of Aus-
tralians Howard Vincent has recently stated In
the English papers that we, of these colonies, adore
the very name of Disraeli and hate Gladstone.
He might like to j edge of these things for himself,
for it must be incomprehensible to him that fierce
Toryism can grow under so free a sky as ours.
There are also many things to be learnt in the
colonies by anyone who would deal with the
problems whose solution now agitates the United
Kingdom so deeply. Here we have no Peerage,
no Established Church, and no Poor Laws, yet the
people seem to get along very well without any
of these things. It is not a bold thing to say that
if Gladstone should come out and spend a few
weeks on this continent he would return a fiercer
Liberal than ever. As to his welcome, that need
not be in doubt. Princes and peers have
come, and have expressed real gratification
at their reception, yet the heart of the
people has never gone out to them ; but
to the Great Liberal there would be accorded
such a demonstration as no Prince need ever hope
for. The Prince is merely the figure-head of the
ship of State, and never very handsome at that;
but the Premier is he upon whose skill the welfare
of passengers: and crew depends. And Australian
people are keen enough to know and recognise
the greater power. There is one primary difficulty
about the despatch of an Invitation to Gladstone
—who is to send it. Is Dalley, the little oracle of
Tory-Jingoism, to be the leading man here ? Is
the Liberal traitor Pabkes— or that pure old Tory.
Sir James Martin— to voice the people’s wish?
Or shall Dan. O’Connor, C. J. Roberts, C M.Q.,
Mayor Young the Magnificent, or John Davies,
move in the matter ? No, none of these are fit to
be mentioned in this connection. Let an invita-
tion be sent from the paople, and if Gladstone is
able to respond, he will be welcomed by the people
in every part and corner of this continent of Aus-
tralia.
NOTICE.
The Rates or Subscription to “ The Bulletin’;
are as follows
One year .. 34/- In advance
Half year 12/6 „ „
Quarter 6/6 „ „
Cheques, Drafts, and P.O. Orders, must be made
payable to J. M. HARDING, Managing Director!
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
Postage-stamps of any Australian colony ac-
cepted for amounts under £1.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
The Bulletin will attend to all communications
of whatever character from near or distant cor-
respondents. The aim of the paper is to bring to
light the good things of all sorts.
The Editor will gladly consider suggestions for
illustrations, and will carefully read, and acknow-
ledge in the correspondence column, all contribu-
tions submitted—whether in the form of political,
social, or other articles, verse, short tales or
sketches, paragraphs, letters, or newspaper-clip-
pings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
Correspondents will please write on one side of
their paper only, and in forwarding newspapers,
will be good enough to mark the portions to which
they invite attention.
The Bulletin does not necessarily undertake any
liability in respect to MS., &c.. forwarded. But the
Editor will, as a matter of courtesy, send back all
unsuitable contributions which are in the first
place accompanied by a properly-addressed and
stamped envelope.
The Bulletin n ill be glad to publish properly-
authenticated social items.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre ROYAL “ The Pearl Divers” p, 8,
Gaiety Theatre—“ Fun on Bristol”.... „
New Opera House—” Th.i Caniidate ”
Princess Theatre-Huso's Buffalo Minstrels „
Vlham bra -Mlustrelsy, Olio, and Farce. „
Royal Standard Theatre—” Voices of the
Night”
Academy oe Music. Federal Minstrels „
New Masonic Hall-Farley’s Opera C 0.... „
Lynch Family of Balirirurers-- Northern Tour „
Mr. E. Farley’s opera company opened at
New Masonic Hall, Sydney, on Saturday, with
Les Cloches de Cornevllle,” and were welcomed
by a very good audience. During the last few
weeks opera has been conspicuous by its absence,
and probably a good many playgoers have had
time to grow weary of the loud-mouthed gymnas-
tic maniacs who have been tearing the drama into
gory carpet-rags, and running their performances
by the aid of a scene-shifter and a painted men-
agerie. Even a well-worn favourite comes as a
welcome relief at such a time, and “ Les Cloches de
Cornevllle ” furnish an entertainment of which
the public will not soon grow weary. The date
of the story appears to be before eye-glasses,
mashers, and six-shooters were Invented, and
accordingly we are saved the infection of a Nor-
man dude leaning up against a Japanese vase, and
defying a dozen bony pirates to come on and be
smashed into bloater-paste. The actors, too, do
not throw out their legs in the tragic stride of the
old stage villain; and from lunatic asylums,
screaming women, detectives, shipwrecks, and
10ft. sausages which vainly attempt to pass for
snakes, a merciful Providence has delivered us.
• • •
Mr. E. Farley, as the Marquis, was.of course,
a great success. He sang well, as he always does;
ho made love well, either through long practice
or because making love Is one of his hereditary
accomplishments; and, at a time when aristocrats
are getting very much out of date, ho played the
part of the nobleman with a grace that might
have stayed the current of ancient eggs at a Bir-
mingham election. Miss Florence Seymour made
her first appearance in Sydney in the character of
Germaine, and she played her part so prettily and
sang so sweetly that we devoutly hope her first
appearance may be far from her last. Miss Kate
Lovell,as S9rpolette,was exceedingly good, though
on the whole we are Inclined to give the prefer-
ence to Germaine; and Mr. W. Walshe, as Grenl-
cheux, sang exceedingly well and acted as little as
he could possibly help. Gobo (Mr. Scott) was an
amusing individual, dressed in garments of fear-
ful and unspeakable tightness, and his business
was to drag the municipal government of Corne-
vllle—consisting of one bald-headed, corpulent
individual in a red nightgown through its diffi-
culties. He succeeded in doing it, and the man
who could drag such a corporation through must
be an artiste of no mean order. As for Gaspard
and the Bailie, we sincerely wished we had bee n
dead before we saw them, and we certainly will be
dead before we go to see them again.
• ♦ ♦
The third act had rather an abbreviated
appearance, and a good deal of work which falls
to the lot of Gaspard and the Bailie sesma to have
been cut out, possibly as a charitable concession to
these individuals. Grenicheux’s suit of armour
was about seven sizes too small for him, and his
anatomy bulged out in all directions, like the riba
of a fat hog breaking through the treacherous
walls of a very small pigstye; and a word of praise
must be given to an individual in shirt sleeves
who made himself obtrusively conspicuous in the
wing. He did not appear to have any connection
with the performance, and from his gyrations he
seemed to be carrying bricks, but his garb did not
harmoniie with the scene on the stage. But, as a
whole, “Les Cloches de Corneviile” was a pro-
nounced success, and the energy and ability of the
leading characters were equal to covering a much
greater multitude of sins. Encores were fre-
quent, ana one of the ladies seemed in danger of
oelng knocked down by an ill-directed bouquet
thrown by some wall-eyed admirer. The next
time the. gentleman wishes to offer a graceful
compliment of this kind it would be well it he
would hire a Chinaman to deliver it for him.
Chinamen are cheap, and in his case one might
prove very serviceable.
** * *
“ Nap ” at the Sydney Gaiety having died
an unnatural death amid a frantic scrimmage of
very short kilts, ” Fun on the Bristol” has again
been presented, while another novelty is in pre-
paration. The Widow is now appearing for
“positively the last nights,” her career being
announced to close on Friday. In the advertise-
ment of the concluding performance, we observe
that Lord Carlngtou and Mrs. O’Brien have got
mixed together in someway or other; it is des-
cribed as a “command night,” from which we
presume that either his Excellency has commanded
the widow to give one more entertainment for his
benefit, or the widow has commanded her
Majesty’s representative to be present on this
occasion, or else look out for squalls. The latter
seems the more probable theory of the two, for if
it came to an argument between the baron and
the relict of Peter Maoallister, we would go bald
headed for the relict, and back her with our last
cent.
«* * »
“Voices of the Night” continue to draw
crowded houses at Sydney Royal Standard. Ac-
cording to the advertisement, this piece ” touches
every chord in the human heart,” but this Is un-
derstating the case—it not only touches them
but it saws them through, and withers them up as
completely as if the organ of sentiment and circu-
lation to which they are attached were afflicted
with potato-blight. On Friday, however, the
husky murmur of these voices is to die away, and
“ The Merchant of Venice” will be produced.
Then the dude will fold away his revolver with his
other pants, and beat his eye-glass into a Hebrew
nose, and his lisp into a Hebrew snuffle, and learn
the art of milking cows no more. We have our-
selves a deep regard for the ill-used shent-per-
shenter, and will hail him as an agreeable relief
after Charts Moonee Ponds.
** * *
In our notice of “ The Candidate,” at
Sydney Opera House, last week, we were com-
pelled to dismiss two ladles, who deserved better
treatment, with very scant ceremony. One of
these is Mrs. Sophronia Martlett—kno *n in private
life as Miss Annie Taylor—a strong minded female
who devotes herself to keeping her husband from
falling asleep, and as he was awake at the moment
of going to press, her efforts are not altogether in
vain. Miss Pattie Brown, as Lady Clarissa Old-
acre, has little to do, and does it very well. Amos
Martlett (Mr. D’Arcy Stanfield) is a bifurcated note
of interrogation with an apology on top, and the
hair seems to be falling off the top of the apology.
He is a peaceful little man, as meek as an English
curate, who ekes out his salary by plg-fetding,
and about as thin as an English pig which has to
depend for its mid-day meal on the aforesaid
curate. He spends most of his tima in a state of
hibernation, but even while asleen be adds a good
deal to the entertainment. Mr. F. Cates deserves
a better part than that of Captain Hazlefoot, but
he makes the most of it, and when circumstances
require him to lean up against the wall and say
nothing he leans and is silent accordingly. “ The
Candidate” promises to have a good run, and
certainly it merits success.
** « *
The mechanism which serves the needs of
the “Pearl Divers,”in Sydney Theatre Royal, might
be used for far more sensational purposes. The
submarine world is full of wonders. The way the
water glistens; the way it breaks, like the break-
ing of glass, around the ears of a person sinking;
the strange tinkling music, melodious but all dis-
jointed, that simmers overhead and below, im-
part sensations that, if ever experienced, survive.
* * #
We may claim that we possess subaqueous
experience. We have been to the bottom of
Cook’s River. One day, not long ago, we were
tying a fishing-line to the farthest-out branch of a
tree that had fallen half-way across those shining
waters. We meant to catch flathead. While we
made our knot, the side of the boat dipped, and
we suddenly departed. Quite distinctly we saw
the water strike submerged objects, and glisten
and glitter as it broke and shot back. Quite dis-
tinctly we heard the flop flop of the heavy volumes
of wave in the distance. It seemed as if they were
falling forward. There were a slss of gently-
escaping steam, a twitter much like a linnet s,
when a ripple ran round a forking tree-stem; a
general sense of musical murmur, and a silvery
shadowy line of grey-white life as a fin sped hur-
rledly by. The waters around were mirrors.
Above and on each side were shadows looking
at us.
* * *
It is strange that anyone with water near,
ane wanting to commit suicide, should try to do it
otherwise than by putting his hands la his pockets
and Jumping in. The feat is painless, musical,
spectacular, and enterprising. Nothing demon-
strates so clearly that there is a hole in a man s
skull as to And him Ignoring this plan and setting
down on the side of an iron bedstead to eat a
packet of rat-poison.
«• * *
So long as good, strong agricultural
melody and wit of rectangular build hold a front
seat in the human heart, so long will the Sydney
Alhambra resound with the fierce acclaim of esta-
cised humanity and its proprietor flourish as a blue-
gum tree. Last week Mies Amy Rowe lilted up
her voice to promise with much energy that she
would “ await her lover’s return;” if he has not
come back by this time it must be that he has got
into Darllnghurst over something, for an ordinary
man would get over anything if he knew Amy
was waiting on the other side. Miss Florence
Schuler is a comparatively recent importation,
and If her voice was brought under the ad valorem
schedule on her arrival the revenue should now
show a gratifying total. Miss Nina Tulloch, in her
business, is as interesting as a Georgestreet carv-
ing and quite twice as pretty, and the sisters
Pullen succeed in pullen off an encore and a nur-
sery garden of camellias every time. The gloomi-
ness of the Jawbonlan pun must be taken as an in-
dication of the admiration which is beyond tbe
power of expression.
New arrivals among the men are the
Matthews brothers, who were reared in a land
where backbones are not, and where the supple
monkey appears as a club-footed and clumsy
brute compared to the suppler man. Another
new-comer, Mr. George Lee, we desire to con-
gratulate upon his first appearance; we would
congratulate the audience still more it it were also
his last. He is too absent-minded, and absent-
voiced, ever to rival Sims Reeves. As one of the
Othellos he does just a little to atone for his sing-
ing, but still it is evident that another branch of
art would suit him better. As a representation of
—say, Captain Moonlight, or Albert the Good, in a
Waxworks Show, he might make a hit. Under
present circumstances it is the audience who will
want to make a hit—with a brick, or something.
** * *
Madame Boema bias departed; Madame
Christian remains in Sydney. In tue outward
passenger-list the former vocalist appeared as
“ Maltalne Beaumart.” Such is fame I
** * ®
Hugo’s Buffalo Minstrels at Sydney Prin-
cess’ have laid up a stock of new jokes, wnich im-
prove the entertainment considerably, and they
have also got some good songs which do not seem
to date from the days of T/glath-Pileser. “ Big
aim Dempsey, the funny storyteller,” pays about
10s. in the £ on his obligations to the public, for he
is big though not particularly funny. MBs Verne’s
songs are well sung and well received, but unless
that young lady looks to her laurels Mies Cleve-
land will leave her behind. The quartette horn-
pipe by four young ladies is also a very attractive
feature, and the contortionist continues to show
how a man of energy may get through this wicked
world without bones. ‘‘Blinks and Jinks” sup-
plies an amusing item for the conclusion, and if
someone would accidenta'ly murder the“Squee-
dunk Warrior” and bury him as unostentatiously
as possible there would be very little to complain
of. We have no grudge against the gentleman in
question on account of his being a warrior. 0 <
the contrary, we object to him merely because he
Isa Squeedunk delu ion, and if he would give up
seeking the bubble reputation at the mouth of the
commissariat-waggon and take to the prayer-
meeting business Instead, one more stumbling
block would be removed from the path of fallen
humanity.
ft * * *
The naan who would go to the Sydney
Academy in search of solitude and silence would
go to Rockhampton in search of a cool climate,
and sit at the feet of Jawbone Neild to learn
wisdom. The programme is a chuckle in the first
items, a guffaw in subsequent ones, and a yell
after the appearance of the Raynor Brothers.
We have seen a prize-fight, a spelling-bee, a tee-
total lecture, and a cloud of loveliness, pillared by
startlingly crimson stockings upon that stage, but
none of these were half as interesting as tne Ray-
nor Brothers. And as the more familiar business
of the company keeps up to high-water mark, the
great heart of the people beats with rippling and
tremulant intensity within the four walls of the
Br-cademy.
m» * «
R. S. Smythe is still the chief concert
manager in Australia, The two Zerblni Quartette
concerts in Sydney, and the two concerts of
the Misses Joran, all under his management,
are the four best paying high-class musical
entertainments that have been given In Sydney
for a very long time. Artistes on the plat-
form, and £s. d. in front. Amateurs and
deadheads—and they always go together in the
eyes of the “much-travelled’’—are the abomina-
tion of desolation, The Misses Joran have made a
splendid opening In Sydney, and Melbourne is
already looking out for Pauline and Elise. Nearly
every seat has been secured for their last concert
to night (Thursday). They must come back, and
soon, otherwise they will have to wear long frocks.
* * tt
The Lynch Family are getting very near
to Sydney as we writs. Raymond Terrace (N.8.W.)
subscribed royally to the treasury, as did nearly
every other town visited in the North, and now
tne company intend returning to Sydney on our
day of publication to start a bank.
A JOKE ON THE JUDGE.
A. Queensland Judge, who is tho perfection of
dignity on the Bench, swore In a witness, rather
frivolous looking female. “ What is your name?”
“Happy Ann.” “Where do you reside?” asked
the Judge. The witness giggled and replied,
“ What’s the use of me telling you where I live,
you wouldn’t call on me anyhow—would you,
Judge?” “Oh yes, I would, if you could offer
any inducement.” “Oh, thank you. Judge; indeed
I can. I know your weakness.” As she was leav-
ing the court she tipped the wink and said, “will
the famous St. Louis Lager Beer be any induce-
ment?” The Judge adjourned the court and
joined Happy Ann.


Political
Points
Labouohera’a election for Northampton
only cost him £3O.
Gladstone and Parnell respectively will
continue to lead the British Liberals and the Irish
party.
The Scotch petition in favour of Irish
Home Rule was signed by 106,894 Scotchman, It
was a mile and a quarter long and weighed 247ibs.
Undertaker Melville, M.P., says he wants
to punch the Sydney D.T. editor. We wonder
whether Ninian buries punched editors free of
charge ?
There are over 23,000 Civil servants in
N.S.W, This means about one to every 46 of the
population; and one drone to every ten of the
breadwinners.
“The Grand Old Miscreant,” is what
Vanity Faia now calls Gladstone. That is the
tone adopted by the Sydney dailies In re Protection,
which nevertheless refuses to be billed out.
“ Cannibalistic,” not “ Calvinisticguffaw,”
was the O’Sullivan’s description of the laugh of
Inglis. This correction puts the Sydney D.T. clear
away from the chance of faking up another
popery-and-protection plot.
Mr. Creer, M.P., says the teetotal members
of N.B.W. can be distinguished by their superior
steadiness when the division-bell rings. Some of
them can also be distinguished by the fact of their
having insolvency certificates.
Rival politicians and rival newspaper men
who hitherto have been backbiting one another in
Charters Towers, joined hands and smoked the
pipe of peace lit by the great O’Kane on the occa-
sion of the Home Rule meeting there.
There has been a motion before the 8. A.
Parliament to reduce the Governor’s salary to
£4OOO. There is not now a Governor in Australia
who is worth anything like £4OOO to anybody but
the snobs who hang round every vice-regal resi-
dence. ’
In March, 1884, Mr. L. F. Hey don, lectur-
ing underthe title “The Inevitable Policy of the
Future,” prophesied that within five years
N.B.W. would be Protectionist. That was only
two years and a halt ago, and already the colony
is just about half-way round.
Under, the new N.s.W. parcels post system
one can send to Great Britain a parcel not exceed-
ing 3lb. for 23. Bat the postage on a parcel the
same weight to any Sydney suburb costs 103, Bd.
The difference, we nippose, has been made in the
interests of '‘lmperial Federation.”
Reuter’s cabled yarn that the Nihilists
“dswe/i as some of the Irish party, are arrangiog a
dynamite conspiracy against England,” is on the
face of it a Tory lie, manufactured to discredit the
Home Rule movement. When will the Australian
dniiiew cease to’ stuff their readers with such
Blush ?
The Daily News describes Mr. Edward
Stanhope’s appointment as Secretary of State for
the Colonies as “ a monstrous one.” Mr. Stanhope
Is a nobody—he is merely one of the vast army of
Tory mediocrities whose bald heads you see shining
through the club windows of Piccadilly. But then
“anything Is good enough for Botany Bay.”
Free-tradein N.S.W. is doomed, and yet
all tbe dailies except one are howling down Pro-
tection I Is the press a “ power ”in the ordinarily-
accepted sense, or are its tactics like that of the
pig-driver who purposely heads his swioe for the
direction opposite to that in which he wants them
to go?
The reference made by the Sydney D.T.
last Friday to the N.S.W. Ministry’s “ marked and
ostentatious indifference to every matter which
appeals to the patriotic sentiments of Australians,”
is evidently a covert attack on the Government
for not having rushed forward to grovel in com-
rratiy with the promoters of the testimonial to
“Wales.”
Mr, Dow is tbe Pooh-Bah of the Victorian
Government. He is Minister of Agiiculture,
Minister! of Lands, and Minister of Mines On
Tuesdays, Mr. Dow keeps his eye fixed on Land
and Agricultural questions—on Thursdays only he
reserves all bis energies for mining matters. The
rest of the week is devoted to readylcg himself
for fresh billets.
Lord Tennyson, Professor Huxley, Pro-
fessor Tyndall, and Herbert Spencer unite with the
enemies of Home Rule. Most of these gentlemen
were equally zealous In tbe work of helnlng
Governor Byre to escape the gallows he had richly
earned by his murderous tyrannies in Jamaica.
Several of them were equally zealous In the de-
fence of the slaveholders’ rebellion.
The Queensland'Government organ, tbe
Brisbane Telegraph, tells “Sir” Sam. Griffith
that his recently-acquired knighthood confers no
honour upon him, and that “ he ought not to touch
it. It la not sufficiently distinctive, ncrsufllelectly
great. It will help to obscure the name which Mr.
Griffith Is making for himself.” In other words,
we suppose the price of the Telegraph’s demo-
cracy Is an earldom.
“Melville, M.P., who is an undertaker,
last night wished to tax even the bread * we, as
merchants, traders, and customers consiyne.’ He
ahouldnot be anxious in the Interests of his clients.
They have no trouble about bread.” Which
pleasantry (from a Sydney daily) is evidently
founded cn tbe old London story of tne under-
taker who wanted to drive his hearse nast the
cabman. " Don’t get excited, Mister,” said Jehu—
your fare ain’t in no hurry.”
Mr. Chamberlain says that he has arranged
with Lord Carnarvon ss to the lines on which
autonomy is to be granted to Ireland—so it would
appear that either the Tories intend to back out
of their position or else the Birmingham screw-
maker is lying. He was about to say something
more, but just then the crowd rushed the plat-
form, and the next thing that was seen was a pal-
lid Radical retiring at express speed through the
back door. <
Mr. Williamson wants to know whether
Mr, J. B. Nelld reserved to himself a special car-
riage on a recent journey from Newcastle (N.S.W )
to some Northern town. Our sympathies are with
Mr. Nelld. If “ Tommy ” Williamson had made a
compound double-condensed star-brand political
ass of himself he would rather tiavel In a horse-
box by himself than with rational beings in a Pull-
man car It is impossible to blame Jawbone, any-
how. Newcastle people are not very particular as
to their travelling companions, but they have
their feelings.
In an article published in the Dunedin
Echo, a Freetbought paper, in 1883, tbe then
editor, Mr. (now Sir Robert) Stout, thussweepiagly
condemns the acquisition of Brummagem titles
by colonial statesmen:-“No, we don’t require
titles. They may in certain stages of development
stimulate men to deeds of heroism, but as the race
gets better educated these spurs to greatness will
prove unnecessary—nay, even harmful. Letua
hope, then, that at next session of Parliament
something will be done to prevent titular dtstiao-
tlons being bestowed in the colonies.” Evidently
Sir Robert Stout’s education is still la an un-
finished state, judging by his readiness to grab a
title when it wss dangled in front of him.
Mr, F. M. Darley, in the Legislative
Counci', Is doing work of a useful kind, by scari-
fying that, close corporation known as the Per-
manent Force of New South Wales. He says it
requires “ immediate reorganisation.” That is a
very mild way of putting it. At present, ihe
main object ofj voting the military tstimates
appears to be to enable the multitudinous colonels
and "msjaws” to star at night in uniform at
Government House; to monopolise at official and
private dances those gold-lace-hunting heiresses
ViV us^-ovel
(jlUclnon
feV'l V«TS
Vor V\l£ Y" 01 \
Wince
“SPEAK UP, JIMMY!”
“Sir James Martin, the N.S.W. Chief Justice, has promised to undertake supervision
of the fund locally raised in aid of a testimonial to the Prince of Wales.”— Daily
Payer.
who are not already in the clutches of the men of
blue coats and brass buttons; and to waste
Government foolscap by writing nasty letters to
one another in tne daytime. For bickering and
blackguarding one another within the barracks,
the ossifers of New South Wales can give points
to any body of military farceurs ana gold-lace and
goose-step bummers in the universe, but as a
defence against an invading force, they would be
about as useful as a Revised Version at a cock-
fight. In the Soudan the artillery force was abso-
lutely useless, according to the emasculated evi-
dence at that nicely-arranged Spaldirg-Alrey
"enquiry.” N.S.W. is paying pretty dearly for
Its military whistle. The easiest way to settle up
affairs on a good working basis would be to pre-
sent every man in the military crowd with an
artistically-constructed sack, start fresh alto-
gether, and then, perhaps, take on a few of the
present members of the force as soon as the
arrangements for future operations were decided
upon. We make Mr. Barley a present of this sug-
gestion.
The Bulletin draws the special attention
of Sir Patrick Jennings and his colleagues to the
case of despatching-offloer Stone, win is disabled
for life through spinal injuries received while tra-
velling, in the execution ef his duty, in the N.S. W.
mall-train which was wrecked at Ccotamuadra.
Stone’s eyesight is failing, as a lesult of his mis-
hap, and now that blindness has become all but
inevitable, Offioer.Scone’B usefulness in this world
is practically ended. If this terrible disaster had
befallen him in the employment of a private firm,
he could probably have exacted heavy pecuniary
compensation in the law-courts; as a public
eiaplojd he enjoys no such right, and is placed at
i tre idercy of the Government, which, Tub Bul-
letin cairns, represents a community that is dis-
posed to be even more than just to the public
servant whoso life is wrecked on such an occasion.
The wife of Officer fctone seems broken down by
trouble, and states that now there ia no longer any
prospect of their former servant being of any
further value to them, the authorities have simply
stopped the half-pay hitherto allowed her husband,
and left his family so utterly destitute that they are
unable to pay for private medical assistance; they
have had to part with all their little property, and
are on the verge of destitution. If the facts are
as alleged, then we are sure they have only to be
brought under the notice of the Ministry to ensure
the case of the injured man being promptly and
favourably considered. We commend the subject
to the attention of railway employes in general.
Now that the Samoan “ difficulty ” seems
to be about over, a good many people would like
to know who are the Government and who are the
rebels la that part of the world. The German,
American, and Euglish Consuls have been sending
long despatches about the Insurrection, but so far
as the evidence goes the King, Ministry, and Par-
liament consist of one pumpkin-eating nigger
with a paper collar and a brass helmet, and the
rest of the people are insurgents. The Govern-
ment gets up in the morning and washes itself in
a gourd, and then gives audience to the represen-
tatives of Foreign Powers, and on the strength of
those negotiations a lot of men-of-war have been
prowling about for months to see that some
tyrannical foreigner or overbearing Kanaka did
not overset the Constitution, In the outside
world, however, the Impression is growing up
that a Constitution consisting of one coloured
man, with a striped shirt and a chew of tobacco,
is not worth all this bother. Even if the Govern-
ment is overset, it merely involves’turning one
nigger upside down, and a Sydney larrikin
could stand the whole Samoan Civil Service
on its head and wipe the floor with it.
Then, by reversing the capsized potentate-
turning him end for end, wool uppermost—the
monarchy would be “re-established on a firm
basis, ’ and the consuls and naval captains could
meet together and banquet on tomatoes in honour
of the nappy event. For some reason or other
Britain has taken up the cause of “King"
Maliloi, and “loyalty” finds a new vent in the
Pacific by keeping this donkey on his large feet
and watching lest Lis troublesome subjects should
knock him over. However, the Samoan Joke Is
getting too absurd, and probaby ere long some-
one will kick this naked Government In the rear
and tell it to “git.” Then the world will be con-
vulsed with the spectacle of the three estates of
the realm clearing a wire fence with a yell in one
act, and scooting away across a banana-patch on a
stogie pair of legs to hide in the bush. “ Uneasy
lies the head that wears a crown ’
A magnificent elephant-story comes from
Sultanpore (India). An elephant residing there
thought he would like a holiday, so he lifted his
rider with his trunk, threw him up to such a
height that the poor nigger began to see stars, and
tried to step on him when he came down, but for-
tunately ftiled to find him. Then he leaned
against on old man, while the old man leaned
against a wall, and his friends came along and
buried him. Next the animal went into a house
taking the whole front of the building in with
him, and stepped softly on top of a happy family.
In death they were not divided, for nobody could
tell where the pulp of one ended, and the squashed
wreck of another began. He met a pony and a
bullock, and he knocked the bullock into the pony
and the pony into the bullock until it was impos-
sible to tell which beast the horns belonged to,
and he sat right down on several individuals while
he scratched the top of his back with his hind leg,
and before he got up their spirits were looking
down from the Golden City. He travelled ail
round the district, taking short cuts through
various kinds of valuable property, pulling down
chimneys, breaking taxpayers off at the waist, and
having a royal time, and then he went back and
tried to get in by the window of his old home.
Here, however, he met a worthy foe In the shape
of three tame elephants with Hindoo riders, who
ran him down after an active scrimmage, and fled
a string round his leg to keep him quiet for the
future.
A PARLIAMENTARY PORTRAIT.
GRAB-ALL GAB-IT, ESQ, M.L.A, C.M.G.
A bumptious beast of braes and braggart bounce;
Of gas a hide-full, and of brains an ounce;
Whose only gift la never-ending “ gab; ”
Whose constant aim and policy is “ grab; ’
Whose diction, spelling, tell no taka of school;
Whose favourite epithets are “knave” and
“fool; ”
Whose price but varies with his varying reads;
His game to magnify the breach of creed<;
Who prates about the “ Sawbatb,” yet wilt swig
Enough that day to swamp an eight-oar gig;
Snob, toady, crawler to the rich and great;
A scorner of the starveling at his gate.
Electtdchiefly by the workman's vote.
Once in, he spurned his footstool, turned his coat,
And trimmed his sails to catch tbe tickle bre -ze;
His garb, now yellow, an! then Home Rn e frieze.
A dead-head hanger-on at plcnioo. dinners;
A saint ’mong priests: anarcb-ttind among sin-
ners,
Without one principle, save love for self;
Mammon his deity; his war-cry “ Pell; ’■
He scbffs at censure; slcries ia his shame,
Tbe C.M.Q. that gilds his worthless name;
Tears spotless reputations limb from llmi,;
Nor scares who sinks, so Jong as he can swim.
AUSTRALIANA.
The ’Frisco mail, which left N.Z. a week
after the Tarawera eruption, carried 764 tons of
newspapers. Two-thirds of this consisted of vol-
cano. The rest was chiefly advertisements and
abuse of J. A. Fronde.. .Rev. Peter Maopherson,
M.A., of the Royal Society of N.S.W., and a noted
authority on Australian anthropology.ls dead... The
Maoris now only number 41,433 -decrease of 2541
since last census 1.... Mr. James Mills, manager of
the Union Steamship Company, Dunedin, has
divorced his wife, with costs against her friend.
She skipped to Sydney.... The stockman had given
the black-boy some carraway-cake. The nigger
ate, and his face assumed a perplexed look.
“ What I’’ he asked, “ baal you like Tm oake,
Tommy ? ” “ Baal mine like ’im that fellow,” re-
plied Tommy; “ too much grass-seed sit down .
Queensland has 873 policemen, Including 196 black
troopers —Victoria has under hops 806 acres
yielding 3501 cwt; 383 people are growing tobaooo
on 1866 acres, yielding 13,734 owt. There are 1133
vine-growers on an area of 9775 acres; of the
grapes grown thereon 158,354 cwt. were last year
used for making wine, producing 1,003,817 gallons
and 3875 gallons of brandy. Some 39,651 cwt. of
grapes were otherwise disposed 0f... The liquida-
tors of the Commercial Bank of South Austra-
lia have commenced the payment of a dividend to
the creditors of 13s. 61. in the £. Any difference
between the amount ultimately paid in this
world and 30). in the £ will be made good
by Crooks and Co. when they get to Heaven
Queensland National Bank dividend, 15 per cent.
....Land in Collins-street, Melbourne, auctioned
at £llB3 per f00t....T0e people of Cooktown (Q.)
r. quested the Premier to appoint a Chinaman as a
member of the detective force, but Sir Sawmill
Griffith declined. ..Pat Perkins, of Queensland,
ia, it is said, to be made a K.C.M G. They will be
soon more common, and less respectable, than
•J.P.’s.... King Bob has taken all the charity and
all the courtliness of ihe Maoleay to Yurrup, a
local bank sending down 11 shillings to the Ly-ee-
Moon Fund. How much is that for the manager
and the messenger?....Mr. N. Healy, of Coota-
mundra, Is to lecture on Henry Kendall,
shortly, the proceeds to be devoted to the
education of the dead poet’s 50n....
is a great sporting country. The “ paid ”
secretary of Its chief racing-club gets £1 a week.
Land at Bullock Island is going up since the
name was altered to Caricgton A northern
(N.S.W.) town clerk has been sentenced to five
years for stealing £lOOO. He is thus earning £3OO
a year while In ga01... .At Mount Lyell, Tasmania,
the holders of a 50-aore mining lease have driven
37 ft. into a deposit, largely impregnated with
manganese, without reaching the opposite wall I
Several assays gave 164, 187, and SlSoz.gold to the
ton. The prospectors intend getting half a
ton treated in Melbourne. No wonder.
The annual liquor bill of Melbourne and its
suburbs is estimated at about £3 000.000, and that
of the whole colony at about £5,000,000. a sum not
far short of the total amount that is expended on
the ordinary articles of food At Doherly and
MTeau’s prospecting area, Cloncurry, N.Q., a
very rich leader, Sin. wide, is turning out speci-
mens wholesale. The leader is said to be “nearly
all pure gold 1”....The £23 deposit of Colonel
Wlndle St. Hill, a successful Tasmanian Parlia
mentary candidate, has been attached by his
trustee in bankruptcy Adamstown wants a
new lockup. But they never had an old one, the
sole constable having to cart his prisoners to
Hamilton, leaving the town at the mercy of stray
goats and vagrant d ga A goat-proprietor
writes to the Kyneton GuAHDiAN:-Sir.—“ Can
you, or any of your numerous readers, kindly in-
form me whether a goat tied to a fence ia
a goat at large or not? The local nuisance
inspector swore that the goat was at large....
The town council of Maryborough (Q ), who are
past praying for, have set their inspector of nui-
sances at the local Harmy Practising in the
streets with rifles and revolvers is the chief diver-
sion at Port Darwin... The Wanganui Herald
urges the N.Z. Government to have the neighbour-
hood of the eruptions scientifically examined, as
the inhabitants are anxious for their safety. They
might as well appoint a committee to explore the
bottom of the Atlantic.... Eight policemen and
two reporters are prospecting the Waitakerei
ranges in the endeavour to capture Caffrey and
Fean, the Barrier murderers. They missed their
men by arriving half an hour too late at a farmer s
bouse It is decided to increase the capital of
the Bank of N.S.W. from £1,000,000 to £1,250.000....
A N.Z. woman recently added to the population a
child “ which epoke clearly within an hour of its
birth.” Of course it was a girl.... Tho Biogera
NS W.) diamond-mine,floated some time ago ia
Melbourne, “ ia now valued at £400,000.
Tae great Kimberley nugget proves to be
one of those things which look best at a distance
Ic weighed 281 b. when we heard of it, and was s i I
growing; but a eleser inspection reveals 18iz of
gold, 10 iz of dirt, and 26 b. 4oz, of atrocious lies
The man who got 800 iz. of the precious metal ig
also diminishing a little. At Derby he has only
lOOoz, and at Kimberley itself he will probibly
have a clay-pipe an i a Soudan goat-medal. Even
the field is g ttiag small, it having shrunk to nine
gullies planted pro m'souous-llke in the middle of
a desert, and the whole thing looks as the Kim.
berley of a few weeks age, might be expected to
look after being passed through the loflloe of a
V. official assignee.
Dear Bulletin,—My relations with Royalty
(I don't want to mention them) are of such a
nature that I am bound to stand by them. Ido
not believe that “ Wales” or “Edinburgh” wil*
come to open the Jubilee Exhibition at Adelaide
W. will be looking out for Vic’s expected abdi-
cation, and E. s summary of colonial experience
will blight his safety in Australia So many garbled
versions of his description of our island are given
that I must let you have it in full:—" They robbed
me in Adeiaiae, they mobbed me in Melbourne,
they popped me in Sydney; but, direst of all, in
Queensland they took me to Jondaryan and made
me eat damper.” Connaught man come, and 1
hope he will. When in the artilkry he was shep-
hetdedby MajorE phinstoneand Lieut.Picard, and
consequently learned no vice, except the little
peccaatiloes invariably hatched in his brother
subalterns’ rooms, If allowed free choice of bear-
leaders he will certainly fix upon yours in socsula,
—Scotty the w.


Woman Items
THE KANGAROO HUNTER.
“ Grace before meat,” as the girl said
■when she tightened up her stay-laces.
At North Shore, Sydney, a lady has given
birth to triplets—‘‘two line boys and a girl.” All
are doing well—except tbe old man
A country exchange states that “when a
gentleman and lady are walking upon the street,
the lady should walk Inside the gentleman.”
Doctor; “Yes, Madam, I think you are
overworked.” Patient; “But do look at my
tongue.” Doctor (meditatively) : “ Yes, over-
worked as I thought,’
Our girls will soon have to go in ror pro-
tection. A London agercy is about to "supply
wives to settlers In Australia from all parts of
Europe,” This seems too much of a good thing
At the Police Court.—Woman, pleading
for her husband, charged with correcting her with
a poker: "Ob, sir, he wasn’t always that way.
There was a happy time when he only struck me
With his fist! ’
i “ That yourg Bilkins is irrepressible,” ex-
claimed old Hot box, referring to Maud’s young
man; “he positively won’t be sat down upon.”
Oh, yes, he will,” put In .little 'Willie; ‘ ask my
Bister Maud If he won’t.”
At the opera.—" What a lot ~- p married
people th°re are here to-night I” “ How can you
tell they are married ?” “ Don’t you see ? the men
don’t do any talking, and there’s hardly a corsage-
bouquet among the women.”
In one species of spider the female is 300
times largt r thin the male. It is unnecessary to
say .‘hat the husbatd never attempts to go to bed
with his boots on, nor does he kits the eight-legged
Blavey behind the dcor when his wife is at home.
“Are you enjoying yoursefl 7 asKeualady
of a little miss at a fashionable children's party.
“Very much indeed, thanks.” "and will your
papa and mamma come later?” "Oh, dear.no;
papa and mamma and I don’t belong to the same
set.” _ _
“Strange suicide of a tat” is the last
carnivorous sensation in London. Pull particulars
are not to hand, but it is understood that the
animal wrote an affectionate note to the Thr mas
Pussy on the adjoining roof, and then tied a brick
to its tall, and rushed down a steep place into the
Bea, ______
* The French lady-duellist, who™ teaches
fencing, says that she “ wishes the injured woman
to be able to run her wrong-doer through the
heart.” Pooh I Women always commence business
now by stabbing men to the hoart. It’s when
Adonis’ heart-wound begins to heal that Venus’
trouble begins.
The Queen “has at last consented to have a
telephone put on at Windsor Castle, to connect with
the mansions of her married children.” The
motherly old lady found it too slow waiting for a
messenger, Now she will shout into the micro-
phone, “Hello,hello, hell—Yes, I’m here! Did yon
say ‘ a boy?’ All right, 111 be over in the morning.’*
In the case of Taylor, who recently kicked
his wife to death at Melbourne, the jury found a
verdict of manslaughter only, because "the
murderer and his victim were both intoxicated.” In
future a Victorian who wants to get rid of the
partner of his life will simply make her drunk,
get drunk himself, pound away with hla hobnalle,
and trust to the jury.
British court ceremonial requires that
when a Queen is crowned all the “ lords, spb itua
and temporal.” should kiss her on the left cheek
There are 600 of them altogether, and most of
them drink, while not a few cf them eat onions as
well. Victoria, when her turn came about 50
years ago, entered an energetic protest on these
and other grounds, and this part of the show was
left out.
The Anglican Bishop of Grafton and Ar-
midale, urging the formation of sisterhoods in his
church, says;—“We, who know the whole of
Rome’s system and teaching, cannot see what is
going on in the middle and upper classes’ educa-
tion In our towns, and not be alarmed at the use
made by our people of the convent schools.” And
still some clergymen are found to take the chair
at Edith O Gorman’s meetings, where she holds
forth on the enormities of the system his lordship
wishes to introduce.
This is how the matter stands in ’Frisco.
Says a Iccal paper:—“When the M’Donald-Mish
trial shall have concluded, it will afford the text
for some observations upon the Inconvenience of
race prejudices. To permit familiar intercourse
between young people whose religious opinions
forbid them to marry, is a question of social im-
portance, and it may be well to consider the pro-
priety of endeavouring to destroy any of t v e
restraints and barriers of prejudice between
Jewish and Christian families, if Cnrlstian maidens
are to continue to be exposed to the amorous and
criminal approaches of Jewish libertines. The
natural relations and the result of Innocent inter-
course between the sexes leads to honourable
marriage. Il Jewish parents shall permit their
sons to pursue their amours emong Christian
circles, at the same time forbidding them, under
penalty of religious and social ex-eommunicatlon,
to marry, it will not be surprising if Christian
fathers, bfothers, and husbands should endeavour
to arrest their advances by what the law calls
murder.”
The visit of the “Escaped Nun” has
elicited from the Hawkesbury editor the ques-
tion (in a leading article) “ Why do parents send
their children to Convent schools, and thus run
the risk of damnation to the souls of their off-
spring ? ” Possibly they do it In order that the
young ladies may afterwards escape and go lec-
turing, Instead of taking to domestic service, or
some other honest employment where there is no
gate-money to divide; we really can’t say. The
Hawkesbury journalist “knows from good report
that Reman Catholic Convents are hell upon
earth,” though how a small country scribe should
know, while still alive, so much about hell, it is
difficult to guess. Then, after plastering sulphur
on to the fiery cross for nearly a column, the
Hawkesbury editor-man winds .up—" The time
has come when those who do not wish to see the
power of the Papacy restored to the same state as
in the days of bloody Queen Mary, when the faggot
and the stake did their work, to band themselves
together to subvert it I ” This country editor-man
is a Janus-faced person after all, or he would not
dare thus to pervert Evangelical history, and en-
deavour to snow that in the days of Queen Mary
the faggot and the stake banded themselves to-
gether to subvert the Papacy.
At Richmond (Vic.), a widow with six
children, from nine months to twelve years old,
was summoned recently because the two eldest
did not attend the State school. She said they
worked during the day and attended evening-
class, and that their earnings, along with her own,
enabled the family to live in a state of semi-star-
vation, her husband’s death having lelt them
absolutely penniless. The magistrate listened to
this pathetic tale and then sentenced her to pay
SBa. or do H days in gaol, and yet no one rose up to
cowhide him. The poor woman, as it happened,
had never possessed 80s. In one lot for many
months, and, of course, must go to prison, and as
her six children are not included in the sentence,
they may starve in the streets until the fortnight
of Government skilly has expired. If the woman
had been a Papuan islander with a few grease-
spots for her sole attire and with a fish-bone stuck
through her nose, it would have been consider-
ably better for her. In that case some missionary
would have come along with a lot of old tea-chests
hound up to form a native Bible, and set to work
teaching tier about civilisation and Mrs. Potlphar,
and probably a home would have been found for
her. However, as things stand, the requirements
of alleged Christianity are met by SOs. or 14 days.
It is not altogether novel and startling to
hear of a bridegroom vanishing from the view o f
the bride-to-be or her relatives—not altogether,
mark you, because It is a course of conduct,
which, although, no doubt, reprehensible, finds a
great amount of secret sympathy in the breasts of
a great many married men. But to hear of a bride
eloping from her Intended husband is a very
different thing—a mare of quite another hue, in
fact. Yet this same thing occurred in the South
5 Gets upon his hind legs and wonders
what noise that was.
1 The Kangaroo lies To the grass and
takes a snooze.
8 Kangaroo says It's about time to
travel.
2 A savage comes that way with his
spear
3 The sun shines in his face and causes
him to sneeze.
4 Awakened by the noise the Kangaroo
stretches himself
6 Supported by his tail, he looks all
around.
7 The savage goes for him with the
spear.
14 The Kangaroo is lord of ail he sur-
veys.
15 He lies down and resumes his snooze.
MORAL.—Hunters can't always catch what they are after. — Fliegende Blatter.
Australian township of Terowie not long ago.
The pair to be yoked together were Poles. Yoking
between poles is not uncommon. [Pooh I— Ed. B.]
The wine and the cakes and the flowers and
tbe ring and all other festive accessories of the
sad (excuse us, gentle reader, we have been there
ourselves) ceremony had been purchased by the
proud, blushing bridegroom. The bridesmaids,
too, were ready, and rosy as the morn. But the
bride was not to he found. There was no mystery
about her ease, however—no Jcase of Ginevra and
the self-locking Saratoga trunk. She had simply
eloped to the hills with her mother. The local
paper says that “ great sympathy is felt with the
bridegroom.” We are willing to wager that all of
the sympathy that was genuine came from the
single men of the place. How should they know
better, poor things ? But they will learn in time.
The idea of a girl eloping with her mother I Why
it is enough to make a Greenland idol—the gloom-
iest of idols—laugh. The deserted bridegroom will
soon get over his trouble, or we are much mis-
taken In the nature of man.
He prepares to jump
10 Astonished savage has a distant view.
11 When Kangaroo alights the savage is
tar away.
12 But he makes an effort to overtake
Kangaroo. It is hot pursuit.
13 He succumbs.
Justice Webb, of Victoria, has got a case
m hand which threatens shortly to leave him bald.
The late Henry Sutton, It appears, made his will in
1883 and died in 1884, having been married in the
interval to a lady named Lena Wark. One party,
of course, contend that the will is rendered in-
valid by the marriage, while the other side declare
the ceremony to be a fraud, Sutton, according to
the evidence, was married on four different occa-
sions to as many different ladles, and the fourth
performance is denounced as illegal because the
third wife still survives. On the other hand, how-
ever, it is asserted that the third marriage was
pull and void because at the time it was contracted
the first wife was alive; but this was met by the
statement that the first marriage was a sham, as
the original Mrs. Sutton’s previous husband was
then in the land of the living. If the claim
of the first wife to her second husband can be
made good, then the third wife and her first
husband are out of the running, and the fourth
wife scoops the pool; but If the first wife’s first
husband can be produced then the third wife
drives the shebang and bounces the fourth wife
out of the bigamous caboose. The appearance
of the original wife’s first husband will make the
will good, and his absence will send that document
into the waste-paper basket, unless the second wife,
who is not yet mentioned, and who is supposed to
be playing a lone hand in Canaan, should turn
up with three or four more husbands and a
wooden-legged uncle, and upset the whole apple-
cart into the Styx. Every witnets who appeared
made the affair worse, and at last the Judge in
despair banged his head against the wall and ad-
journed for three months. He made a remark as
he was leaving the court, which was not distinctly
audible to the reporters, but it was understood to
embody eleven and a half original curses.
Ladies, listen to this. At a meeting of the
ladies’ branch of the Melbourne Health Society,
the other day, Miss Blphinstone Dick gave a
lecture upon “ Clothlffg,” In which she quoted
from an eminent medical authority the following
♦oS a uo- s l i pon tteht-laclng: —“ This dreadful prac-
V®® ,‘’ as done more than war, pestilence, and
towar ds the physical deterioration of
civilised man. More than this, it is doing more
race , to-day than intemperance in all
its horrid forms. What do you think of that
?^L B^ re . et a ogcls of our homes ? We believe you
P n or J y o£ tt. And well you may, for it
ne l °, f I° D k tyranny. Ever since
marriage was instituted, unhappy husbands have
p . a when returning from a little natural recrea-
tion with their fellows, to sit sometimes on their
doorsteps for hours In the biting air of the winter-
dawn because they dare not ring the bell for fear
W£^e you, and sometimes have been com-
pelled to court a slumber, full of dismal and fore-
bocing dreams, in tbe woodshed or the washhouse,
all because of your aversion to a little drop of
liquor. But the worm will turn at last. You have
nad your day of power, and, to give you
your due * you did not neglect to use
U'-.., Now it is our turn. Every husband
with any sense will copy out this sen-
tence— Tight lacing is doing more injury to
our race to-day than intemperar ce in all his horrid
terms’—and have It printed in large letters, and
trained, and hung up in his bedroom. Then he
w Jd manage to get the natural measurement of hla
wite s waist, and after tr at the size of it with her
corsets on (he can easily do this by pretending to
embrace her, as he used to do in the honeymoon
time) and then get a tape measure with the in ches
marked on it and indicate thereon the size of her
natural and artificial waist. He may then go out
with a light heart to tbe club or the circus or
wherever he pleases and come hiecuping home in
the gray of morning and kick the door in if it is
not opened like lightning. No more need then to
sit shivering on the step, or risk breaking his neck
by climbing over the back-gate. If bis wife says
anything, or even “ looks sour” at him, he h%s only
to produce the tape measure and point at the
framed Inscription on the wall. That will fix her
if she have the faintest notion of logic. If not—
well, he had better help her to lace herself an bach
or two tighter until she gradually cuts herself in
two. Then he can take another wife who has been
educated in the views of the Health Society.
The Unhappy Homestead Lessee.
Dear Bulletin,— l am an applicant for a N.B. W.
homestead lease, and judging that my case, from
the very commonness of its features, may be of
some public Interest, I will, with your permission,
a round unvarnished tale deliver. Twelve months
sgo 1 and a, friend of mine determined to take up
homestead leases in the Lachlan district. We
knew nothing of the country, so gave an expert
to act as guide, engaged horses and trap,
and exp ored the country tetween the Lachlan
and Darling rivers. Squatters eyed us askance,
were rarely civil, and never obliging. They re-
garded us as the first of a host of malignant lessees;
would give us no information; didn’t know their
own boundaries; didn’t know leasehold from re-
s^?i ed a^ea— d idn’t, like Poor Joe, ‘ know nothink.’
Although we didn’t lose our tempers, used the
politest of language, and wore the affable smile of
Lord Carington, ail our inquiries met the same
answer—in iffect, 'Goto SheoL’ This sounded harsh,
at the time, though we have since regretted not
having done so. But we contented ourselves with
a colourable imitation,’and went to Hay. There
we vainly sought Information at the Lands Office-
Iu e .^? ps had POt drived; all the clerks knew was
that Hay w*s dusty, and it would be a devil of a
season for mosquitoes. Then my friend went onto
Sydney, secured a map, and found that the land
we wanted was not available. We made another
excursion, found land we thought would suit,
lodged application and deposit of one penny
per acre. No opposition ; safely throngh
the first stage ; must now wait for tne
Board to sit. So we go home to put things
T n < i rd^T ex P®° aeB °f this trip, £56; deposit at
Lands Office, £44; in all, £lOO. We sell out of our
former business, square things up, and sit down to
wait for the Board. We waited six months, then
appeared and got application confirmed. We now
had to wait for survey. Although the plan of the
division of the run had been followed, re-survey-
ing was essential. We wished to take existing
lines to save delay, and sent a deputation to the
Minister for Lands, who replied that re-surveying
must be gone through. So the coat of this appli-
cation to the Court-£lO at least-is wasted, and
we are no nearer to Lour land than we
were six months before. Wa begin to weary
of this enduring torment of wasteful walt-
ing. and to ponder lovingly on Sheol aa
a better sort of thing. Well, we waited
six months or so more, and got seven days’ notice
to attend the Land Court re improvements. We
went to Hay had no time to go and look at the
fencing and tank we would have to pay for, but
were told it would make no difference, as the sur-
vey or valued for selector. We got his figures, and
found that he put an old boundary-fence down at
*2B per mile, our valuation of it being about
£lO. We found that the squatter’s price was £3O
per mile, and saw it would be hopeless to go into
court with the only man who could eive evidence
in our favour, opposed to our view. We offered the
squatter £l6 per mile, and he took It. We settled
all the improvements with the squatter, being
afraid to go into Jaw over the matter. The rent
the Board has fixed at one shilling per shot p—in
other words, the valuators say my leasehold will
carry one sheep to five acres, and I have to pay
twopence-halfpenny per acre per annum in ad-
vance. Everyone who knows the district says no
one can pay more than sixpence per sheep. They
put the figures thus;—To fence and improve a ten
thousand acre block it will take £l5OO, the Interest
on which at 8 per cent is £l3O. As the improve-
ments belong to the Crown, you must have a sink-
ing fund; 4 per cent wi.l work it cut in about 17
years. That is an additional £6O. It will cost
one shilheg per head per sheep for rabbit-tax.
marsupial-tax, and stock protection tax- this
on 3000 sheep is another £100; the rent is £lO4, but
as it is payable in advance, it means £ll3, or a
total yearly charge of £293- 4s. per sheep. If these
flgui es are correct—and I have it on good author!; y
that they are—the Government will get no rent
from any intending selector, as we will all have lo
throw up the leaseholds, believing the first loss to
be the best. I have wasted a year of time, and
£l5O of money, trying to get a homestead lease
My boys are anxious to go on the isnd, and are
willing young fellows who are not afraid
or work, but I am not going: to lead
them to certain defeat. I would now ne
glad to get £lO back for my £l5O, and
w y n luciJi ln Victoria or Queensland. The
N.b.W. Government pretend that they are anxious
to settle people on the land, but the experience
herein set down makes it appear as if they sought
to drive them away into other colonies. Else why
the weary circumlocution; why the cobwebs of
red tape; why the delay, and the evasion, and the
muddle? Why the piling of expense upon ex!
pense, and difficulty on difficulty, in the path of
the selector? Why the re-survey, when we take
the old lines after all? The re-survey costs
per mile. Why the fixing of high rents if not to
block the selector ? Mr. Copeland said a lease had
been let at Corowa at fourpence per acre, which
he seemed to thiuk fair. The land so leased would
carry a sheep to the acre, and is comparatively
close to a railway. We aie 100 miles from a rail-
way in a naturally waterless country, and are
asked to pay three times as much, and 100 times fin-
eluding interest and other charges) as much as the
squatter pail before us I
“ Tours in hopelessness,
“A HOMESTEAD LESSEE.”
V AB ‘ is th e case, the explanation
only aggravated the original offence.” This £
from the B News, and referslto Mr. Gar van
historic flogging statement. It would! Ooweve7
be much more true in re any K. News explanation
Dear Bullbtin,— Sir—Me and mv mat*’
have been employed lately in breaking in goarmna
(is that spelling right ?), and have about tIS welL
grown fellows who Will answer to their names and
go up a tree at mght and eatch the possums on
their rposts, always bringing their game tom! 8 Do
you think the Minister of Mines wßmd employ us
to catch rabbits, as our pets will jrb down hotea
and fetch ’em up ?—Yours truly, Bogan Cooky


: ijn I
r 1
Ufj j
Mj
1 1 W\A
mm
lilfe*
jk
Bursting up Free-Trade In Mew South Wales.
PERSPIRING PROTECTIONIST (to Mr. J. P. Abbott): “NOW THEN, JOE, JUST TAKE OFF YOUR COAT AND BEAR A HAND HERE.”
ABBOTT(cautiously):“OH. YES, ALL RIGHT. DIRECTLY. YOU GET O’SULLIVAN AND HEYDON TO FIX IT PROPERLY. AND THEN I’LL SPLIT UP THE FREE-TRADE LOG
FOR YOU."


hj
kfj
Twin Terrors; or, John Bull’s Nightmare.—Anotlier Cable Lie.
“London, Tuesday.—It is reported that some of the extreme Irish have coalesced with a number of Nihilists, and that they are conspiring to carry on a dynamite war with England.”


THIS WICKED WORLD.
The Earl of Shrewsbury has just put on
London streets 100 hansoms, horsed by 350 chest-
nuts all purchased by himself, and many of which
he has broken to harness. The few vagrant
aristocrats who come to Australia never keep
cabs. But they pretty often cheat oabmen —At
the Paris Salon is seen a bronze statue of General
Chanzy, bearing on its base the soldier’s famous
remark, “Let any French generals who desire the
marshal's baton go seek it at the other side of the
Rhine.”..lf,” once asked Bob Ingersoll of an
old nigger woman, “men are made out of dust,
what is done in wet weather when there is no
dust?” She replied; “Oh, dey make infidels and
such truck when dere’s nothing but mud handy.”
....There Is a yarn of Pauline Bonaparte, after
giving sittings to Canova, being asked by a lady if
she did not feel uncomfortable in her nude state
Pauline, who was noted for her beauty and the
excessive smallness of her ears, replied, “ No, not
at all; the room was beautifully warm.” An
4-rlzonan bar-keeper has a tame rattlesnake,
named “Tootsy,” in a whisky bottle behind the
counter, and whenever a man, who has taken too
much, demands a drink, Jimmy planks down the
snake’s bottle before him. “ Tootsy” knows his
cue, and, rising from the bottle, rattles his alarm.
The scared inebriate swears off at once for
Six months. Can’t we Import “ Tootsy ” for
the N.S.W, Parliamentary Refreshment Rooms
An absent-minded clergyman forgot what he was
about in the middle of a prayer ard sat down.
In a moment he arose, and, pointing to the
amazed congregation, said : “Ohl by the way,
amen.”.. Jerome Napoleon, upon hearing tne
result of .the voteexpellingtbeprinces,exclaimed:
“1 shall soon return to save those who have pro-
scribed me from being guillotined by their friends
of to-day.” The Bavarian king, who has just
suicided, was betrothed to Princess Sophie, fisfer
of the present Empress of Austria. The princess
was of a gay nature, and it was discovered that
she had been guilty of a liaseon with a handsome
photographer cf Munich. Thereupon the king
dissolved the engagement. The name of the photo-
grapher is found on most of the photographic re-
productions of modern paintings sold in this coun-
try — Earl Kenmare, late Lord Chamberlain, has
had to move from Belgrave-square to Tlte-street,
Chelsea, in consequence of his rack-rents being
reduced Physician (with his ear to patient s
chest): “There is a curious swelling over the
region of the heart, sir, which must be reduced at
once,” Patient (anxiously): “That ‘swelling’ la
my pocket-book, doctor. Please don’t reduce it
too much.”... Gilbert and Sullivan’s next play
will be "The Khedive,’’and after that, we sup-
pose, the “C.M.G.” or tbe “Jawbone.”....The
great French painter, Meissonler, is in desperate
trouble. He has more debts than riches, his hand
has lost Its firmness, and he has quarrelled with
the great dealer who used to buy his pictures...
The only chance a tramp in England now has Is
to get bitten by a dog and sent by the aid of some
scientific body over to Paris to be treated by
Pasteur. The unbitten vagrant has no show of
relief ..When applied to lately for a subscription
In aid of a debt-burdened Methodist cbapel. Bus-
kin wrote“ Don’t buy things you can’t pay for I
And of all manner of debtors, pious people build-
ing churches they can't pay for, are the moat de-
testable nonsense to me. Can’t you preach and
pray behind the hedges—or in a sandpit- or a
coal-hole—first ? And of all manner of churches
thus idiotically built, iron churches are the
damnabiest to me. And of all the sects of be-
lievers In any ruling spirit—Hindoos, Turks,
Feather Idolaters, and Mumbo Jumbo Log and
Fire Worshippers—who want churches, your
modern English Evangelical sect is the most
absurd, and entirely objectionable and undur-
able to mel”.. .John L. Sullivan will write a
book It seems that only the English language is
left to go into the ring with him. From all we
have heard about John, the English language will
win A batch of London flunkeys have teen
charged with assaulting the police. Jeames de la
Pluche regards “bobby” as his natural enemy.
Cookie is at the bottom of the trouble....A whole
parish in Wales is on a strike for a reduction of 10
per cent, in the tithes. The Vicar offers to come
down 5 per cent,, but this has been rejected by the
parishioners. Of such is the kingdom of Heaven!
The New York world boasts of a Chinese re-
porter—Wong Ching Foo. He is 33 years of age,
and has been in the States since 1873 In Labra-
dor, owing to the intense cold, 3500 Indians and
Esquimaux have perished. The ice-crop is a good
one this year... The Anglican parsons are mort-
gaging the British national glebe lands; so that
when disestablishment and dlsendowment take
place, the people will find that in addition to the
compensation which will be claimed by the clergy,
mortgages to the extent of several millions sterling
will have to be met Finch, alleged perpetrator
of the sensational Kentish Town (London) murder,
is a relative of the Earl whose family name he
bears... Archibald Forbes’ bride is described as
exceptionally beautiful and accomplished
Hobart Pasha died of heart-disease; his last words
were “ Let my grave b© in Turkey.” At his dying
bed there were but two—his young widow and an
old .Scotch servant . The Empress Eugenie has
visited the Indo-Colonlal Bxhlbfiion and has been
much charmed by Burdett Smith It now seems
to be pretty generally believed that King Ludwig
of Bavaria did not commit suicide, but was
murdered “by order,”... “Yourliver iscertainly
out of order,” said the doctor. “ How many
glasses of beer do you take per day ?” " Well, I
don't know, Doctor, sometimes twenty or
thirty, and sometimes quite a 10t.”...1f you want
to know how easily somo men can lie,
just ask a chemist to oblige you with a postage-
stamp without previously buying sc met ding else.
Thackeray used to delight in telling how a
waiter at a public dinner was overheard telling
another, “Thata the great Mr. Thackeray,’Vto
which the brother waiter replied, “ Lor’bless us,
and ’go’s ’e?’ Dr. Holmes is said to tell, with
equal gusto, how, when once on a lecturing visit
to a provincial town in Massachusetts, he found
that an old school-mate was a sfovedealer there,
and thought he would look him up. Off he set
with a friend, and found the stove man, who, when
asked if he had been at the school in question, said
that he had. Asked if he remembered a boy named
Holmes, said he did not. Askjd if he had heard
the name since, said he had not. Under these
circumstances, the whilom boy Holmes left
his old schoolfellow to his stoves without
further comment or Inquiry “Did yeu ever
see the prisoner at the bar?” “Oh, yes,
that’s where I got acquainted with him.”....
The three daughters ot the Princess of Wales
have given up talking in public to their mother,
who is now hopelessly deaf. As the Princess of
Wales is just about the only member of the Royal
family for whom any real admiration is generally
felt, people will be sorry to hear this.... The latest
match reported to have been airanged at the office
of Queen Victoiia’s Royal Matrimonial Agency is
that of Prince Henry of Prussia and pretty Prm-
eess Irene of Hesse, Both of these young people
are her grandchildren, and as the supply of princes
la running short it is hoped the scheme won’t
miss fire. If the Royal family continues to increase
at its present late, it will be necessary to pass a
lew princesses on to the Emir of Bokhara or the
Sultan of Johoiq, as it wouki be infra dij for
them to become old maids Bismarck Is unhappy
because his doctor wants him to shut down on
beer-dtinking —The Panama Canal Co. are on the
market again for a loan of £231X0,000. The Canal
must be more expensive to run than New South
Wales.... In order to assuage the anger of his con-
stituents. a member of the Commons said that he
had asked several hundred questions since his re-
turn to Parliament. Dpon this one of the unwashed,
takings black pipe from his mouth, shouted out:
“What a ignorant oid you must be I”
Mrs. Langtry, when lately seen driving with her
lather, wore a curious shade of red-brown; a
Swiss belt with long points, gracefully curved be-
neath the bust, was over the bodice, and this
style, trying as it Is in general, was very be-
coming to her figure. .Her hat wps high
An Arab, who was dredging for something in the
upper part of the Red tea, reports having brought
up the wheel of Pharaoh’s bicycle. It was covered
with oysters, and from their Hebrew flavour a
number of scientists have come to the conclusion
that the wheel is a genuine relic of the time when
the shent per shent man left Egypt....lt was the
habit of Leopold von Ranke, the lately-deceased
great Prussian historian, to work from 10 in the
morning till two, to return to bis desk again at
nine, and work till one in the morning. He lived
to be 91 ... He saw a good looking woman dron her
glove from the carriage-window just as the train
from the station. He rushed forward,
grabbed the glove, as he supposed, and racing
alongside the car, handed the fair one a banana
skin, which he had picked up by mistake
Madame Christine Nilsson has married the Comte
de Miranda—not, however, the Count Miranda who
swindled the Sydney banker Marie Corelli
author of that curious book, "A Romance of Two
worlds,” is described as ‘‘a weird-looking little
person, with fair tumbled hair and large eyes, who
appeared to have been interrupted in the middle
of her toilet and have come out in her dressing-
gown. When seen by the writer she had on a
long, straight swan-white, sbroud-like garment
with a loose plait falling from the shoulder At
the entrance of a Pesth restaurant is posted a
notice:— Gentlemen are requested to abstain
from kissing the waitresses on the stairs, as this is
a fruitful source of breakage and impedes the
service. ....Commas are sadly wanted In the offices
°f fome Paris newspapers. Thus:—” Raoul lo< ked
at the beautiful girl. He admired her teeth and her
hair black as ebony, her nose and her lips of bright
red. ...it has betn clearly shown that Columbus
was born in Corsica.... The mortality from fever
and heat-apoplexy among the young English sol-
diers at Assouan continues to be terrible. Some
times there are 10 deaths in one day The most
extravagantly-dressed of monarcbs is an African
potentate whose wives dip him into a barrel of
paim-oil and then powder him all over w ! th gold-
dust.....Just after Patti had been married to
JNicolinl the health of the newly-wedded pair was
proposed by Mr. Spalding, who by a curious coln-
oi was man ” Marquis de Caux
at Madame Pattis first marriage.... Old Kaiser
Wilhelm la a most pitiable wreck, and there is
some fear he will not see his 90*h birthday. Yet he
will insist upon wearing his stiff uniform when be
r. e i™. be i(c! ln v, Tt is a fac t that Earl
Cairns ( Gumboil ’) has broken with Miss
Y„ raiat -- A P? ila<? elphian lady named Mercer
has bequeathed an estate and £2O 000 “to pro-
vide a home for twelve -aged and disabled Pres-
byterian ministers who do not use tobacco.”
....Germany has 200,000 vagabonds, swindlers
and thieves—a very small proportion. There
are nearly as many in NS W. without count-
ing any in lunatic asylums, the Assembly, or
even the legal profession.. .The editor of a
Mormon paper in Salt Lake is in gaol for support-
ing four wives, and a San Frencisco editor begs
him to inform the profession how he supports four
on one paper.” We should think it could be easily
done—that is, “on paper.”.... Advt. from Birming-
ham Daily Post;— “Personal.—An officer’s son, in
serious position from his liabilities, seeks, on
merits of the case, some friendly hand to relieve
him <Sf his awful anxiety. India, care of, &c ”
A man arrested in Ireland while “ moonlighting,’
had in his pocket an official promise of a Govern-
ment billet—“ All But” is the title of a new
novel. The hero is not, as some might infer, the
Soudan goat.... In Paris, a clerk mortally stabbed
a man who had seduced his wife, and he has been
ordered to pay £l2O damages on the ground that
it makes one taxpayer less... “Clothes lent for
funerals” is the announcement of an enterprising
Cockney tog-merchant.... 0 uida's last story, “Don
Gesnalda,” discusses this uncomfortable question
—what ought a priest to do who sees one of his
flock sentenced for murder—on the very flim-
siest evidence—knowing all the while through
the confessional who was really the criminal
A carnivorous beast in the London Zoo
has died through eating Australian tinned
meat. Probably it ate the tin as we11....0ne of
President Lincoln’s neatest strokes of humour was
his treatment of Lord Hartington, when his lord-
ship had been wearing a Confederate b«dge, and
had just been presented to the President of the
Broken Bubble. Mr. Lincoln persisted in calling
him Mr. “ Partington.”... The latest conundrum at
the London clubs concerns Miss Fortescue, to
whom Lord Garmoyle paid £IO,COO for not mairy-
ing her. This is it: “What is the most expensive
kind of oil?” “Garmoyle. Because it costs £lO,OOO
per ga1.”... .A Lulu mother-in-law always dodges
out of sight when she sees her son-in-law ap-
proaching. It is different in Australia. With us it
is the son-in-law who does the dodging Eiiza
Armstrong’s parents want £BOOO from the Pall
Mall. “ More than we made out of it ourselves, ”
growl the proprietors .The new-born King of
Siam has been christened George Washington
Albert Edward or John Brown was not good
enough.
A Melbourne amateur geologist has written
to the Age stating that, in his opinion, “earth-
quakes may in future be averted by science. We
would snbterraneously like to know how. The
only feasible way we can think of would be -now
that Mr. Jennings, of Hobart, is dead—for the
Victorian Government whenever a cataclysm of
this kind is approaching, to make John Lucas an
offer to go over and sit upon the chief fissure.
“Do good by stealth,” as the parson
said when he stole the, sermon.
The shearers have struck on Beeswing,
Barwon Blver, for £1 a hundred. Squatters want
to wy 17s. 6d. The difference in a 100,000 station
is £125 and the difference between a good season
and a bad one Is not less than £35 000. This Is the
way squatters offer thanks to Heaven. But do
they forget that the tall grass will be dry bye-and-
bye, and that old story of Bell and Black ? It is
not a matter of £135 when the shearers begin to
strike in earnest.
Our Hobart correspondent writes thus:—
Although sorry to have reduced Mr. Packer to the
necessity of “blowing his own trumpet”—as it
were- I cannot retract my statement re the Packer
festival, but think it due to you to state that the
par. in question was not merely my own individual
opinion of the entertainment, but that of the
majority of the audience, many of whom are fully
£™ pet£ J? t t 0 iQ the matter. I am not
an’S&sasasr a-s
So“Vl°‘Sae ! df' ,a ° a “ e “ VIOUa Tll “““‘°"
A valuable scientific item. “By a Japanese
process, seaweed is made Into paper so strong and
glass B ' b ® UBe J 88 a substitute for
?i aB? A - “Obably the time is not far distant when
Auatrahan working-man will take home his
beer in a copy of the Town and Country or fell
his boy to fetch In a S.M. Herald fulf of water.
According to the Northern Miner, the
King of Croydon mine, Croydon (Q.), is now turn-
ing out stone that gives 460 z. to the ton. A wager
ma £ e that a man with a dolly could
u G2 r of S ol * l at this mine in two hours,
and though the proceedings were interrupted by
a free flgnt and the dolly was upset, were
?®tually realised. The Caledonian claim has 1000
grasp, the Iguana much the same quantity
minoa* o ir as .high as 7oz. Adczonother
“*««« at TT , wltb *ood prospects, and the
field Seems to be at least 16 miles in extent. And
yet, in spite of such wealth close at hand, people
t 0 t 0 the howling wilderness of Kim-
-8 “Ply because distance lends enchantment
the|opnT ieW ’ aQd the view ’ 88 yet * haa not re Pa?d
Three or four years ago a certain man fel
ill down country. He came to Sydney for better
medical treatment, was met at the station by an
a .?- d drivea to his lodgings prepara-
tory to Placing him with his friends. He became
so lil that he could not be removed. His friends
did not turn up, and the boarding-house keeper
Xop Th a fl o e 2 of 8 dy * n * man to his
fhi d T™ compelled to send him to
\ be , ver P ooi . Asylum, where he subsequently
died, Previous to that, another acquaintance, with
precious little money, visited him in theasylumand
did many little things, and finally, when he was
dead, bundled up his letters and posted them to
his relations One of these relations was in a first-
rate position in a neighbouring colony while the
fellow who had attended the dead man was over
head and ears in debt and out of employment
He got a tolerably cool letter of thanks from
the brother, and the day after the epistle
came to hand, the postman knocked, and
t a -7 aade ? a ° d ® d 9P a Packet It was about all he
had, but he paid it. In it was a nice funeral-
wreath, with a request that he would place it on
the grave of their dear departed brother V» h«
30 or 40 f^leg nC he e ni(l f( th a pilKrima^e on foot of
30 or 40 miles, he did the next best thing. He
handed the wreath to a certain paragrapher who
wears it as a smoking-cap to this day when he
wants to be exoruclaunglV funny. *
Sydney charity, to j udge from some recent-
disclosures, seem to be merely a muddy sentiment
at the bottom of the cup of sorrow. At Newington,
a lean and hungry Providence offers a home to
the aged and infirm, but a Chinese Joss-skeleton
couldhardly (according to the old women whoenjoy
the blessing) have done the job on a meaner scale,
Cry bread and tea, they say, constitute the break-
last, the beverage being flavoured by a glimpse of
a cow in a distant paddock la lieu of milk, and the
dinner consists chiefly of hot greasy water and the
vision of a potato—a mess which passes for soup
in this charitable region. Severs! cows and pigs
frisk over the outer landscape, but though they
belong to the institution the Inmates get no benefit
»n om Cleanliness is strictly observed, women
70 or 80 years of age being compelled to bathe in
cold water regularly, and dress in an open yard.
There are. It is further alleged, no fires In the
wards even in winter, but there is plenty of Sorlp-
-8 ® good substitute, and when poor
old shivering women read about a place where
there la no charity, but where the stove is always
kept going and perspiring flenda shovel on the
coals through all eternity they feel that a spell
there would do them good. They have had enough
eharlty In this world to last them till the bottom
ot the hereafter drops out, ana would like for a
change to fall back on some kind of virtue that is
not founded on the stub of a stale loaf and the
refuse of a tea-meeting slush-bucket.
The Orange Lodge at Sandhurst (Vic.)
seems to be as mixed as a plate ot boarding-house
hash with a baby ’s shoe at the bottom of the con-
glomeration. The Orange agony Is ra f ber weak
in that golden region, end those who have de-
voted themselves to propping up the remains of
the immortal William sre reduced to getting
recruits wherever they can. Giles Chump, just
arrived from tre study of bacon and “turrauts”
In some English agricultural village, and Quanko
Sambo, of the Gaboon River, are equally welcome
and a big buck nigger is one of the great features
of the “Glorious 13th.” This uncultured sou of
Ham looks well In the procession, though, un-
fortunately, he is filled with the idea that
the asthmatic Bill whom he Is celebrating
was some kind of “ ouganga ” or “ gree-
gree man,” who once worshipped a rag baby,
or acted as secretary to a bone fe ish In
Aahantee. But he wears the regulation cholera-
coloured scarf, and tries to look as like an ebony
Irishman as possible. Behind his inky carcase
marches an Individual who looks, somewhat like
Job’s atrlarc hal turkey—an old German repro-
bate of the sauer-kraut persuasion, who thinks he
is celebrating something in connection with the
Bismarck-ridden potentate of the “ Vaterland ”
and Ah Chung brings up the rear with a vague
Idea that his religious observance may fetch down
rain. The latter is one of tbeloudf st in his denun-
ciations of Parnell, whom he evidently takes to
be a Tai-plng rebel, and the caravan is unanim-
ously convinced that Home Ru'e must be squashed
or the Empire will be lost, and the price ot beer
will go up. This combination is termed by gum-
headed Orange journalists “the voice of a free
and Proteftant people,” and in combination with
other similar voices In different parts of the
world. It makes up the Lutheran roar which passes
for boiling patriotism in Ulster.
One more pious dog-howl comes this week
from holy Adelaide,where the Goddess of Immortal
ennffla is still on the jump, and seems likely to con-
tinue so. A man named Thomas advertises for hard-
praying Christians to offer up petitions “ that the
attempt to Introduce the totallsator may end in
ignominious failure,” and, accordingly the
chokenst brotherhood are sailing in with a view
to grabbing the automatic bookmaker by the hair
and tipping him over into Gehenna. The South
Australian Christian is never happy unless he is
running the whole Government oh bis own celes-
tial hook, and when things go wrong wltn him he
bangs on to the night-bell at the golden gate, and
rouses up all the saints in order to explain his
grievance. Meanwhile, a wearied Providence has
to sit up for 3f hours at a stretch and drink strong
coffee to keep awake, and tie a wet towel round
its providential head, so as to be always ready
when things go askew at unspeakable Adelaide,
the city ot saints-in-gaol. The totalisator, how-
ever, is a machine which ought to be highly accep-
table to the gushing tabernacle crowd, as it deala
a heavy blow to the wicked Jewbh bookmakers,
and many depraved layers of odds who were
hound direct for that region where the Beast and
the False Prophet are mixed up together, may be
forced to adopt some honest employment through
its agency. But instead of expressing bis gratifi-
cation at the passing of the measure, Mr. Thomi s
tears his coat right off and addresses himself f o
Canaan in some such inspiriting formula as tip:
He does not explain, however, in what particul! r
way he looks tor relief. Possibly he wants the
advocates of the Totalisator Bill to be se zed witti
bronchitis, as a warning to the next Parliament.
ol !,® x ppts that the hand of the Governor will
wither like a last year’s carrot when he attempts
to sign the document; or, possibly he hopes that
the solid surface of this planet may split asunder
and the accursed machine juet when the
last sinner has laid his shirt upon the favourite.
Truly the ways of the Adelaide horse-snuffle gang
are past finding out. They will play the immoral
game of seven-up on a Sunday, provided each
is marked with a tall Scripture curse; they
bet on a race between a devil and a Bible, so
long as the Bib.e has the inside running on a down
grade; and they will offer up somebody else’s
* sin-offering; but they will not look at a
totalisator unless it la run for the purpose of
clearing off a church debt, and then they call it a
wlth'a^lessirfg 1, and Bhove tha swindle through
Pride goeth before destruction, and a
pefore a Policeman. Riches, too,
11 ’ are a broken reed, which as
soon as a man leans upon it goes up a tree, and
n ? unto ltBelf wings it flies away. These moral
reflections are suggested by a mishap which re-
TnwJr ß °?n U i rr .^ t 0 a party of musicians at Charters
/ lhey were strangers In the land, and
Vh tetv tiw thelr en kagements they fell
t0 v, the ? ol <* fever which so often attacks
invlv e tho^ U i Il <- ln au rlferous region. Aceord-
i y u e . nte s e mto an agreement with the
1I f b ? bltan by which they were allowed to
morn ni fl° r “ dajS ia h ' B Claim, &nd next
Sxthi he nompany set to work. The
® bad b . ad some previous mining experl-
unanimously appointed as mine and
manager, underground overseer, engineer,
kp«nJ^. r 'h e ir° r 5 , bea i B 9 fllled the position of store-
nh,e,nb-r’/?»eiilf placed , la charge of a stale loaf, a
. cd oa a 11- c £ eeB f,• and sundry bottles of beer, and
to , ai t f lis 110 discharged the onerous
?K® fBecret^i e # ai manager, and auditor to
i? 0 p ? y *^ ood fortune attended them from
6 9utset, and day alter day gold was turned up
thous* l the senior inhaoitant had
?^® r^ ade 1310I 310 ! 0 t dan wages on the property, and
from dawn to dark the b.istered syndicate tolled
tiombone man was nearly
fa 1 ot earth, the big drum
oi!uLeln abi t. d * for ? time through being ac-
cidentally hit in his parchment stomach by
aoi ( f°i npan iP n l i shovel, and the fiddle wore him-
be 86 euied only the shadow of a dead
f uere was no wild rush to the locality,
*Yu*iu 8 as ? et d °wn as being merely a proof
u® mcabitants were above the attractions of
earthly dross, and were laying up treasure some-
where else than in the Union Bank. At last, how-
?7 or, 0 r, the secretary was taken ill, and from the
moment of his retirement the good fortune
ceased, so it was finally resolved to realise on the
gold m hand—about £6OO per man—and proceed
A local jeweller, who appeared to be
suffering at the moment from a bad oeugh, offered
?? r tho iot ' fe ut this was indignantly
s®fu 8 . ed ' and fbe party decided to sell the precious
7 Townsville. The events that ensued
o (sieuiated to make even a Bulgarian angel
• syndicate entered the bank staggering
fu| lr Precious load, and with live happy
B ““. e .l andpne suppressed grin, they dumped the
wemth on the counter and invited the overdraft
man to speculate, which he offered to do at one
p ?£° y i )er U°und. Copper scraps, he blandly ex-
plained, were quoted at a discount, and tha market
ior Drass tilings was weak—very weak. The syndi-
oateare now inquiring if it is generally known
uiac extensive brass deposits exist at Charters
At Melbourne Morgue.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Oh, morgue, oh dark and dank and dismal place,
Kefuge fer those who fall In life's rough race;
’Mid weeds and moss that fringe thy horrid walls,
Toe rat (fell rodent!) o’er thine Inmates crawls.
Thine Inmates? Aye-for Death in forms most
drear
Provides thy stony beds with guests who fear
The ills of life no more. E’en now we pondering
gpze
On one who did not covet length of days;
Who—scorning old-wives’ tales of torments dire,
Of worm perennial and of unquenched lire,
For those who won’t support me “ office ” holy—
Bade good-Dye to the world—Quel drole! He
Lies here untroubled. True, that cheerless slab
Is Hyperborean cold. “If like a crab
He could go backward,” doubtless he’d complain
’Twas freezing. But ’tls naught, and ne’er again
Or cold or heat or tricks of fortune flighty
Shall move him. Weary-brained the tcedium vifce
For him too much has proved—poor storm-tossed
wight,
He sleeps in friendly and unbroken night.
There let us leave hlm—and the morgue’s dark
door
Shall close upon us, we will swear, no more
If we're consulted. So, farewell, grim shed,
If more we visit thee, it shall be—dead I
A. W. C.
NECESSITY THE MOTHER OF INVENTION.
MIKE: “BRIDGET, MR DEAR, WHERE’S ME NEW PANTS?”
BRIDGET: “OCH, NIVIR MOIND THIM; WEAR YER OULD WONS-IT’S AN ILLIGANT
CURTAIN WE HAVE NOW, THE ENVY OF THER NAYBURS.” ILL IGANT
—The JUDGE.


SMgMl Bftj
ff
TSl&ttdi h*tfbe&M> cJiatig e dTo
r#/s' H tfhh r t ani **
■:
llpJtr fya hfd pa?
frov*f€6f His B/cttkpcy:
,Jpoßr\H(i Tarty (4«U
)>t:ep tfjocke.d out of fiiui-.
ff o LoK Iw Jo
%rip<f op
Grri^te
TcrrldjO
CL&id c/o.c£y aAe. -
c-rtstrtXitit' <*■
/aL OPf/W/VQ Cf/?£/*WM/eS
&/ Mx# r/UuT £ &bLs
J&ic/&A%XAtO &*, fa-
Scs Olc/ &y c£&t<£- &j2a£a J
&hM
(3S(?~A*s Q/<9?k^/ k
#svp,
yu
2p9Rfl|
; r ; ::;
nfg
hfj
ghjk
CAmE
Bill you tol
<&&
j *<s£ lMa* Vw bat
fye )?«. Cans t C>fpe
,VI S IW lt6.ti«'9 To A. 4o<f-
fybttye S&me,
111 ii 1 ii#
hi i ujJW # I piiiiillp ft i i
If V I HP
1111
JDoL or tW£ /Voiy.r^
"Caringtonlans."


Scene: Melbourne—outside the hospital.
Dratoa'is Persorse: Policeman and wounded man.
Policeman: “ Fwhat's the matter wld yez ? ”
Wounded Man: “ W. 11, I slipped on an orange-
peel a >d grazed my elbow aga'hst the kerb.”
Policeman: “ Ye’ll have to go to the hospital.' 1
W.M. (faintly Indicating In which pookat his
purse Is): ‘&Tako all there Is In it—and carry me to
the morguuat once I”
The State, a London Conservative paper,
prophesies financial calamities for New Zoa>an(},
and asserts that investors in her stocks have made
a bad bargain.
Twenty-two Victorian gold-mines, with
only £947 749 paid-up capital, have paid £5,749 383.
Theßmdand Albion Consols divided £1,108.846,
the Long Tunnel £1,000.800.
The North of Ireland Orangemen, it is
cabled, threaten to slaughter the police who are
keeping them in order. It will be found that the/
will slaughter nobody. The whole crowd have
travelled for a couple pf hundred years on one
skirmish which was wen by a crowd of Dutchmen,
and it’s time they gave up all a rest.
The college erected out of the profits of
Holloway’s pills cost £BOp.OCO, and Is most elabor-
ately and elegantly fitted. There should be a big
college built out of St/ Jacob’s oil some day. This
remedy is more popular than aver the delicacies
of Holloway were, and, Thb Bulletin thinks, a lot
more elficacious. Its immense sale, and the testi-
mony of those* who have tried it both afford in-
contestible evidence of Its value.
A schooner has reached Port Darwin with
75 disgusted diggers on their way back from Kim-
berley. They report that 800 men are on the
ground, though it is doubtful if any are making
waves The latest attempt to bolster up the din
frlct is by finding ** Indications” of diamotds 80
miles inland from Cambridge Gulf, but unfortu-
nately these arc not always to be relied uron.
Oalya day or two ago we cams upon a free fight
in the street, and fancied we saw ” indications” of
a policeman, but we afterwards had reason to be-
lieve th j officer was at least a dozen miles away.
BALM FOR A SORB HEART.
Having teen troubled for many years with the
tetter, and ipjnt many a hard-earned dollar, I was
given a trial of the Cuticuba Remedies, and,
thank God, my hands are well. I never had any-
thing to do me good ilk) that. Sometimes my
hea t was sore, thinking I would have to give up
altogether with my sore hands and having a small
family to take care of; but, oh! thank God, my
bands are wed, so I again leturn thanks. ELIZ A-
BETH BUCKLBY, Littleton, N. H.
Wolfe's Schnapps possess all th erequisijtes
of a family medicine.
A glass of Wolfe's Schnapps at bed time
will give you a sound night’s rest.
Marie Brlzard 1
Wolfe’s Schnapps. Only those who never
used the genuine article aro imposed upon.
The success of Wolfe's Schnapps in these
Colonies has been unparalleled.
Mario Brlzard 1
Wolfe’s Schnapps.—lt has often been
irated, but never had a rival.
ECORNILLON & CO., Wine and Spirit
• Merchants, 22 Bridse street, Sydney,
Have on Sale —
Mackies & Co. celebrated Whiskies
E. Remy Martin & Co.’s Centaur Brandy, in
bulk and cases
Vve. Martin and Fils Squirrel Brandy
Ca. Yiucola del norte de Espana, Rioja Clarets,
Port, Sec.
The unequalled A.Y.H. Gin, &c., &c.
t' c
g
Qi-P
et
pO 5 ' /prJ l' nC
o<l^ A
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL, ROCKHAMPTON.
above Hall is now the most completely-
-1 furnished and popular place of amusement
north of Brisbane. The Faust Family, MacMahon
and Leitch’s Dramatic Company,'and Searelle and
Harding’s Opera Company have just concluded
most successful seasons ; also return visits in this
Mr. Jas. MacMahon (MacMahon and Leitch)
says ;—“ The Hall is admirably appointed ;is a
model of neatness and cleanliness, and we have
experienced less trouble in staging our plays
(‘ Silver King,’ ‘Lights o’ Landau,’ &c.) than in
any other place since we left‘Brisbane.”
Hall.
-§ETARY.
ScfiboT of Arts.
B RADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE:
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS;,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY:
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
njg
jf« Q pT
guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable,
Trichord, full Compasa
Celeste Pedal, brilliant,
tone, in handsome case..
Free at rail or wharves fon
cash only,
Bradley, Newton, andi
Lamb,
IMI ORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOS'P
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various,
sizes. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Con-
nell-sti’eet.
hj
Austrian chairs;
in Great VARIETY 1
BRADLEY, NEWTON,,
and LAMB,
Spring and O’Connell
streets.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE. —A very completes
Assortment, just opened, many quite new
designs.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES*
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb.
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
WALNUT TELESCOPE DINING TABLES,
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
:j :
Sideboards of modem
designs and various dimen-
sions, in OAK, MAHOGANY,
WALNUT, ASH, and CEDAR.
A large selection, at all
prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
CABINETS.for Choice China, &c.,
▼ T VERY ELEGANT. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
NOVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW• WINDOAV
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’ConiiGll-street.
ALL-MIRRORS and BRACKETS, novelties
in Plush and Velvets, and in all Woods,
from ss. 6d. each.
LEGANT VENETIAN MIRRORS, richly
enamelled, in colours. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
B
■SB
0
Drawing room cabi-
nets, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
furniture —The latest
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Manufacturers, Spring and O’Connell streets.
EASfcY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs, covered to order in
any material. *
fg
T>EDSTEADS, all sizes,
JL> Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Importers,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDDING. —All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY,.NEWTON, and LAMB.
yhnjf
SPRING MATTRASSES
i Woven Wire, hesfc
make ; also, Spiral Springs
Price, from Us- each.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
SOCIALS
The long-delayed, muoh-talked-of Mer-
cantile Bowing Club ball came off on Tuesday
evening, 3rd August, in the Sydney Town Hah.
Precautions had been taken not to dispose 91 too
many tickets and not more than 300 visitors
assembled. The decorations were good arad ap-
propriate. Need's string band supplied excellent
music, and Baumann satisfactory refreshments.
Mayor Young had specially given his patronage,
and, with the Mayoress, arrived punctually. As
they entfered the rbom the Mayoress, on behalf of
the committee, waS presented with a Very bentlii-
£dl bouquet which was composed of pil e white
camellias, maiden-hair ferns, dud jeonsblcuotls in
the centre were the letter M.R C.” arranged
most wonderfully with violets. The bouquet;
which was constructed by Mr. Sear), measured fully
a foot and a half In diameter, and was a subject
of general admiration. The vestibule presented a
happy and pretty scene. There were no great
novelties In the ladies’ dresses, although many
were In extremely good taste. The Mayoress
wore a becoming dress of pale-pink silk, draped
with white gauze and hangings of pink ribbons.
Two young ladies had chosen bright scarlet frocks,
which were rather confusing in the distance. A
conspicuous and elegant dress was made entirely
of clouds of heliotrope tulle, arranged over the
same-coloured satin. A dark girl was most suc-
cessful In pale-pink satin, covered with pick tulle;
a pink aigrette was worn in the hair a married
lady looked very stylish In a rich white brocaded
silk, profusely ornamented with white lace. A
pale-blue satin was gracefully made, and was
displayed to advantage by a tall, fair girl. A
black tulle and satin dress, with clusters of pale-
pink and white flowers arranged about the skirt
and bodice, was generally admired. Also, a black
net, with quantities of silver flower and leaves
» * »
A court martial, presided over by Capt.
Lake, was held on board H M. 3. “ Nelson” on the
6th Inst. There were three prisoners “ up,” who
all pleaded guilty. In conformity with recent
civil precedents, they received the full nenalty of
the law, their sentences varying from 500 *ears in
Irons to the “ last trump” in solitary corflaemeat
—to be under the supervision oi the police at the
expiration of their sentences The prisoners
thanked the court for the lenient view it had taken
of their offences, and went away grateful that
thev had been tried by court-martial Instead of by
District Court.
* * ♦
Since Sydney Frauderies closed, the
Engineers have had their show, which Is likely to
prove almost as attractive, opened by Governor
Carlngton. The ceremony took place on Saturday
at the old Exhibition Building. As usual, H.K.
was punctual, an?, also as usual, he was bored by
the inevitable stupid addrtss. At its close some-
one awoke the Governor, who, starting up, made
the usual reply. He can now do it in his sleep, and
there was little necessity to arouse him from his
•• refresher.” However, he went on with the old
game, and called for three cheers for the Queen,
by whose exertions the Exhibition had btea got
together, and to whom great credit was due.
Then the thirsty party adjourned to the refresh-
ment-room and drank success to anything they
could think ot as long as the champagne lasted.
When that diffusive stimulant gave out there was
a general falling off in effusive “loyalty,” and the
“ distinguished visitors” left the building.
f' The juvenile ball to be given by the Mayor
and Miss Young, of Sydney, la announced to take
place on the 23th Inst. Tne costumes are to be
either plain or fancy—a fact which will delight
many mothers.
♦ ♦ *
Mr. George Kiss, of Rand wick, has issued
InvitatiOLS lor a dance to be given on the 18th inst.
• * *
Dr. and Mrs. Garrett have issued invita-
tions for a charade party, to be given at their re-
sidence on Wednesday evening, the Ilth. The
entertainment 1* to be an exhibition of w»x works,
followed by tableaux.
* * *
The last of the series of Bb. Leonards’ pri-
vate assemblies for the current season will cake
place in the Masonic Hall, Walker-street, on Fri-
day, August 13th.
« • •
Mrs. Q. Morton Russell, of Pelham Hall,
Woollahra, gave a very successful dance at her
residence on Monday evening, August 9th.
• * *
H.M.S. Miranda left the harbour on Fri-
day, the 6th inst, for Suva, Fiji, where she s to
embark the High Commissioner, Mr. J. G. Thurs-
ton, and proceed thence to Samoa, via Tonga.
In all probability this is her last cruise cn the
Australian station.
A lot of people who attended the Jubilee
ball want to know whether Mayor Young wishes
to pay for their photos, in fancy dress—whether
they are to “ part ” themselves, or send the Hitle
bill to the coming baronet at Sydney Town Hall?
Pending a solution of thii conundrum, a consider-
able number of Mayor Young’s late guests arc
keeping away from the cameras of George-street.
■ • •
Sydney “Society” was quite convulsed
when it heard that the “ dear ” princes were to be
turned out of Franco by the vulgar Republicans.
“What next?” It asked. It will know someday
when, alter a course of “ Imperial Federation,” it
has a few princes of its own to be “banished “ to
the New Hebrides, or Kerguelen Land.
• « «
A very enjoyable gathering of the Sydney
Social Club took Place at Leigh House, on Tues-
day evening, the 3rd Inst. The programme (con-
sisting of 18 dances, including two extras) occu-
pied the attention of fully 50 couples, until mid-
night, music being supplied by Messrs. Herman
and Schapter.
* 9 *
The Sheriff of N.S. W. is at the head of the
movement to give a return ball, “ plain and fancy ”
—to Mayor Young. We don't like to see tne
Sheriff approaching the Mayor with an invitation
whlcn may be mistaken for a death-warrant,
w ♦ •
Lord Carington always plays tennis in his
Etonian colours. Many ladles ask what he has on,
but they admit that he looks nice, and quite dis-
turbs them.
* ♦ *
At 21 years of age died Lieutenant Man-
ning, of the N.B.W. Volunteer Force. He got a chill
at the late encampment and never recovered. H:s
funeral, which was largely attended, took place
on the 2nd inst.
♦ ♦ *
We understand that Captain Terry’s mar-
riage with Miss Laura Throckmorton is to take
place early in September.
* * *
Mr. and Mrs. Speers, of San Talmo, Sum-
mer Hill, entertained a party of ab )Ut 40 young
people on Wednesday evening, 4th inst. Dancing
was the programme, and was heartily enjoyed and
kept up until an early hour on Thursday morning.
The hostess and many of her lady guests wore
handsome and becoming toilettes, which were
chiefly composed of different-coloured satin
covered with tulle, the bail dress which is at
present almost universally worn.
* * *
Fortunately the maximum amount suh-
scribafals by those of snobbish nroclivities to
“ Wales’ ” testimonial is limited to £2 2s. This is to
prevent writers on TUe Bulletin from buying
titles by planking a month’s back pay. Thus are
we nipped 1’ the bud.
* « 9
On Monday evening. 2nd ult., M. Henri
Kowalski entertained, at his rtsldence, Hezslmere,
Edgecilffe-road, a number of Ms friends at a most
delightful musical party. The talented host
charmed his friends by playing many times him-
self. The vocalists were Madame Christian, Mrs.
M’Arthur, Mrs. F. Cape, and Mr. Vernon Held.
• * *
The marriage of Dr. W. Williamson with
Miss Lelnlus Is to take place at St. Luke’s Church,
Burwood, on Thursday, the 13th Inst, at 3 o’clock.
* * tr
A pair of too, too virtuous young lovers
went to Melbourne Bijou one night last week.
The Majeronls were playing their great scene in
“Fedora.” Signor M. was telling the story of his
wife’s Infidelity. Be told It with so much feeling
that the chaste young turtle doves la the stalls
rose from their seats and carried their blushing
faces out of the theatre. ’Twas a disgusting
assumption of goodness. Suffice It to say that if
i ho scene had been open to exception we should
have walked out blushing. But no. We stayed It
out, and cried “ angoofe ” when the curtain fell.
• * *
A Yiotorian-born Judge is going to be
married again.
® ® «
lord Carington at last shows signs of
belt g rather “full-up.” When Mr. Quong Tart
waited upon him the other day In re further enter-
tainments at the N.S.W. charitable institutions,
his Excellency enthusiastically said “It was his
Intention to attend one of these affairs every
year " Which was, we consider, tolerably neat.
It left Quong no room to expostulate; he could
only convey his thanks.
» v v
At Bundaberg (Q.), a “ Citizens’ Bali” was
held recently, and the local paper, edited, it Is un-
derstood, by a kangaroo, makes the hair-raising
comment that “The bearing of the gentlemen
present was most gentlemanly.’’
* * •
The N.S.W. “ first families ” will soon have
to suspend diplomatic relations with France. In
Paris ihrre Is published Le Figabo, a ruffianly
paper, which, on the 18th June last, wrote thus;
“ Comprenant que Lord Kosebery ne consentiralt
pus a abroger cette malh-ureuse convention de
1878 par laqueJe la France et I’Angleterre prirent
Tengagemenfc de ne pas aunexer i'archlpel dea
Nauveiles-HBbrides, cmpendance naturelie de la
Nouvelle-CalBdonle, M. de Freyclnet s’ecgagea a
assurer la liberty du commerce dans cet aronlpel
a ne pas y envoyer de ce qui effarouchait
la pudibond&rie des descendants des convicts de
Botany Bay, . . . Quant aux deux cent mllle
icsuiaires des Nouvelles Hebrides, tomtits sous le
joug des misaionnaires presbytddens, 11s nous
paraiseent d'autant molns Interessants qu'ils habi-
tant un pays que les nsidents de Noumea ou
d’anciens conv 'cts auslralxens peuvent seals envier .”
The fuss made in certain quarters la N.S.W. about
the proposed deportation of convicts to the South
Sea Islaads has alwajs seemed rather like a
satire on the pedigreed section of the N.S.W.
aristocracy.
* 0 9
On their honeymoon, President Cleveland
and his wife bet jok themselves to a retired cot-
tage, but even then they escaped not the search-
ing eye of the American reporter. The poor
President la thus dealt with;—"lt was soon after
10 o’clock the next morning when the President
made his first appearance out of doors. He then
came on the verandah, leaning his ample stomach
against the railing, and looking dreamily off on
the beautiful hills. The President was smoking a
sentimental morning cigar at the time, and stood
for some moments, looking the picture of a nice,
well-fed, happy man. His bride joined him after
a time, and the two stood side by side, close to-
gether.” How they were dressed, and what they
ate is also described. Every cigar smoked Is duly
chronicle!, and how cosily they sat together dur-
ing the afternoon drive is also jotted down. Then
the reporter, who must have been hall-starved
with watching, winds up:-" Nobody visited them
during the evening, and they sat oy the home-
-1 ke hearth the picture of conjugal felicity. Lights
were burning in the upper bedroom windows dur-
ing all the evening, but the parlour lights went
out at aocut 10 o clock, and the upper wintow
lighis a few minutes afterwards. Then all was
dark and still save the plaintive notes ef the
mountain birds cooing to their mates, and telling
tnem that the President of the United States and
his bride were sleeping.” Who would be a Presi-
dent and get married after this ?
* * *
The Masonic ball under the English Con-
stitution will take place in the Sydney Exhibition
Building on September 38 H.B. and Lady Caring-
ton are bound over to appear.
* ♦ *
Few people get handsome gold watches
and chains more deservingly than Mr. W. Wilkins,
ohlof messenger of the Customs fer the past 38
years. He has been a good, faithful servant to the
public, and letires witn honour.
* * *
Tis said that something very like a free
fight took place in the ward-room of a man-of-
war in Australian waters, recently. You see,
sailors are not the “ brothers ” the people on shore
fancy.
• » «
Lady Carington has sent £3 to the mother
of the North Shore “ triplets,” but we do not hear
that H.E. sent anythiog to the father. H.B. does
not usually neglect the poor and suffering.
«s • *
On the 7th Inst. Mr. Gehde’s organ-recital
came off in the large hall of the Sydney Univer-
sity. Though the audience was limited the con-
cert was la every way a success, Mr. Gehde
receiving considerable applause,
* * *
Bis Excellency and Lady Carington visited
6t. Vincent's Hospital on the 6ta Inst. The wards
were beautifully decorated with 11) vers, a bou-
quet being given to L idy Carington oy one of tne
female patients. Thera were aDouc 95 patients in
the hospital, and Lord and Lady Carington spoke
to each a word of encouragement. They also
complimented thesist -rs on the manner in which
the institution was kept.
♦ » ♦
On Tuesday ev ning, the 3rd inst., Ad-
miral Tryon gave a dinner party at his residence,
Admiralty Home, North Shore. The guests in-
cluded Captain Lake, H M.S. Nelson; Commander
Hooke, H.M.S. Miranda; Colonel Bingham, Colonel
Plowden, Mr. Oakes, Lieutenants Arnold and
Keynolds (Nelson), Lieutsna it lufncll (diranda),
Mr. Pakeuham, and Mr. Panssy.
♦ ♦ *
On Wednesday, 4th instant, the marriage
of Miss Maitby and Mr. Hume took place at Bal-
main. The church was full of guests and
others interested spectators. The Key. Mr.
Archdall officiated at the ceremony. The bride
was attired In a travelling dress of a rich blue
cashmere, elaborately trimmed with the same
coloured velvet, and also wore a small becoming
white bonnet, with bows of dark blue velvet.
There weie not any brides daids in attendance.
After the wedding, the party adjourned to Hamp-
ton Cottage, the residence of the bride’s mother,
where recherche refreshments were prepared;
the couple then left for Chowder
Bay, where the honeymoon is to be spaat.
Amongst the guests were noticed Mrs. Hume,
Miss Horton, the two Misses Kennedy, Mr,
Medcalfe, &c.
WWW
Lieutenant Arnold, late of H.M.S. Nelson,
took bis departure en route for England by the
express train for Melbourne on Friday afternoon,
Mr. Arnold commanded the Naval Artillery
Volunteers some time ago, and a number of the
members of that corps who were attached to him
met at the Redfern station to hid him adieu, and
also to present him with a handsome travelling
bag. Lieutenant-Commander Lee, N A.Y., made
the presentation, and expressed the regret he and
the other m.mbers of the corps felt at Lieutenant
Arnold’s departure from the colony. On Mr.
Arnold’s arrival In London he will be married to
Miss Cray, daughter of Mr. S. W. Gray, of Ellston,
Wooilahra, Svdney.
♦ * ♦
An engagement is announced between Dr.
Morrison, resident surgeon of the Ballarat Hos-
nitai. and Miss Lillie Mann, fourth daughter of
Mr. Samuel Mann, solicitor, Ballarat.
»_ • •
Mr. H. H. Dayman, of the Bank of Aus-
tralasia, Petersham, was banqueted at Snudden’s
rooms on Fr'duy evening and a purse of 60 sove-
reigns, together with unlimited jam was put on his
little plate by way of dessert. A good spread was
suitably treated, and various enjoyments and
speeches (notice the distinction) followed.
♦ ♦ ♦
The Hungarian Fair is at present one of
the rages of London. Among the assistants is
Mrs. Augustus Ljftus.
» »
A very enjoyable gathering of the Sydney
Social C.ub too* plaoe at Leigh House on Tuesday
evening, 3rd Inst. The programme, consisting
°f (lncluding two extras), occupied the
attention of fully 60 couples until midnight. Musio
was supplied by Mestrs. Herman and Sohapter.
* * •
A very successful Masonic ball was given
in Bungendore on Wednesday, the 4th of August.
The hall was beautifully decorated with ferns and
flags, and the supper was provided la excellent
style. About 130 people were present, and dancing
continued till an early hour in the morning.
The great bicycle-meeting and the N. W.B.
cavalry tournament vie for public favour this
Saturday afternoon.
• jf •
The date fixed for the children’s plain and
fancy dress ball, to be given by the Mayor and
MayorefS of Sydney, is the 25 h of August.
♦ f *
The Bt. Leonards private subscription
dance will be held this month on the 18th Inst., at
the Masonic Hall.


“Yielding to Pressure."
“Mr. Joseph Boslsto has, in deference to the solicitations of the Prince of Wales, consented Is be invested with, the-Order [? ] St. Georgs."


ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
(Established 1860),
auctioneers, valuators, house, land
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, <fec.. from the Southern
Colonies or New Zealand, may be made to Arthub
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
btrebt, Hrlabane.
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
Her iiajasly thn puo«n,
H.R.H. ih§ Prince c >f Waies.
King |of the Netherlands .
Agents lor JNwrv ooum Wales ;
HJ.M. the Czar of Russia.
TRAPP & ELLES,
54 MARBAHET SIRttT, SYDMLY.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic-
Doloreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary! In Bottles, Is., 2s. Gd., os., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not 'only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to bo the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
531 George-street, only.
Flour! Flour! Flour!
LION FLOURMILLS
KENT ST., SYDNEY.
Town Whites, Fine Seconds Flour,
Wheat Meal, Cones, Bran and Pol-
lard, always on hand. All made
from the very best wheat procurable,
aiid at the lowest prices.
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
BRARA
NERV
TREATMENT
Dr. E. C. West’s Nerve and Brain Treatment, a
guaranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions,
Kits, Nervous Neuralgia, Headache, Nervous Prostration
caused hy the use of alcohol or tobacco. Wakefulness,
Mental Depression, Softening of the Brain resulting in
insanity and leading to misery, decay, and death, Premature
Old Age, Barrenness, Loss of Power in either sex, Involun-
tary Losses and Spermatorrhoea caused by over-exertion of
the brain, self-abuse or over-indulgence. Each box contains
one month’s treatment. ss. a box, or six boxes for 255., sent
hy mail prepaid on receipt of price. We Guarantee Six
Boxes to Cure any Case. With each order received by
us for six boxes, accompanied with 255., we will send the
purchaser our written guarantee to refund the money if the
treatment does not effect a cure. Guarantees issued only by
JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
65 MARKET SEEEET, SYDNEY,
Circular sent free on application.
£lOO Reward!
We will pay the above reward for any case of liver com
plaint, dyspepsia, sick headache, indigestion, constipation or
eostiveness, we cannot cure with West's Vegetable Liver
Pills, when the directions are strictly complied with. They
are purely vegetable, and never fail to give satisfaction
I,arge boxes, containing 30 sugar-coated pills, Is. For sale
by all druggists. Beware of counterfeits and imitations.
The genuine manufactured only by
JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
65 Market-street Sydney, N.S.W.
Sent Prepaid by post on receipt of Is. per box in stamps.
WWW
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMFNT.
Infallible remedy for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
Gout Sprains, Cuts, Burns, Scalds, Bruises, Headache,
Mumps Hip Disease, White Swelling, Felons, Chilblains,
Whitlows, -Chapped Hands, Frozen Feet, Bites of Insects,
Sore Throat, and all diseases requiring external application.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers.
Price, Is, and 2s. tee Bottle.
JOHN G. WEST & 00.» Sole Proprietors,
iYDNEY; CHICAGO and
TORONTO,
hjfghnj
fghjf
ghj
&EFFECT
6d. per Bottle.
ARE THE BEST
Sold by Chemists, Stationers, Storekeepers
Oilmen, &c.
/ BECAUSE THEY ARE LIQUID I
WILL NOT SPOIL ANYTHING I I
NO BOTHER-NO MESS ! ! !
DANIEL JUDSON & SOX (LIMITED), London and New York.
Marie Brizard I
When the lamp of life burns low, use
Wolfe’s Schnapps. It will give you a new life.
The editor of £a Morman paper in Salt
Lake is in gaol for supporting four wives, and a
San Francisco editor “ begs him to Inform the
profession how he supports four on one paper.’
We should think it could be easily done—that is*
“ on paper.” A great many apparently imposiible
feats are accomplished on paper by people who
wear these stylish suits, cut by experienced and
well-known men, at the biggest and best tailoring
establishment in Sydney, which, it is notnecessary
to adif is that of Summerfleld and Company, 335
and 237 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Thousands have recovered robust health
by taking Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Marie Brizard I
Beware of inferior spirit being passed on
you as the genuine Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Many minds are always craving for sensa-
tion, and when any mystery remains unsolved it
always seems as though they had been robbed of
its right of “ knowing, you know.” What would
otherwise be only a nine days' wonder, bides itself
for a little, but it is not forgotten. There is a
readiness to grasp at any item that leads to the
end they have been disappointed in “gaining.”
What a mystery to us is how the beautiful things
in Bray Bros.’, 402 and 404, George-street, are con-
ceived, and by whom.*
About the best thing you can take is
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Why do American Hop Bitters cure so
much? Because they give gnod digestion, rich
blood and nealtby action of all the organs.
fgnhj
\AV
Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form, of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
i
Jbr
Scrofula on Neck.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, xdrnpiy, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseaaea of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Internally, and Cuticura and Cutioura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautiflers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
E. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cube (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticuka, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pare by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
drus’eists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 60 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents, Cbticura Seat-
ing Soap, 15 cents; CracUEA Efflßotyssix, $l.OO
per bottie.
Potter Drug i _ _ , _ tostos, IT.S. A.
GOOD NEWS FOR THE MUSIC
LOVING PUBLIC.
A BRANCH OF THE
MUSICAL lISTEUMEIT
DIRECT SUPPLY ASSOCIATION
Is NOW OPEN at
674 GEORGE-BT., SYDNEY,
With the Largest Stock of Musical Instruments In
the Southern Hemisphere,
AT LONDON PRICES, so per cent, less than
Sydney prices.
Direct from the European manufacturers to
the Australian consumer.
4/», 5/6, 7/6, 9/6. 12/6, 17/6, 21/-, *5/. 60/.
45/, to £2O.
Specialty: The German-Anglo, In wood box, 21/-
~ Ditto, superior, with steel notes, 35/-
Q
ACCQRDEQNS **?/»♦ io/e 12/6.15/, 17/6.
Huuunucimo 21/-. *5/., so/-, 40/-, to Me
Specialty ; The miniature Melodian, 31/-.
Ditto, oak, with steel notes, 42/-.
10/6. 15/-, 20/-. 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speoiaty: Old Copy Violin, with case, bow
instruction book, 35/-.
CORNETS,
40/-, 50/-, 75/-, 105/-, 130/-
to £lB.
Specialties: Tae new “Levy” model,
with water key £5 5 0
„ The new “Reynolds” model,
with double water key .. 9 10 0
The new “Reynolds”Echo-
attachment Cornet .. 13 10 0
FLUTES, from 1/6 to £lO.
Specialty : The 8-key Cocoa D Concert Mute,
with elide-head, la case, by
beet English maker 50/-
v-.„
THE &TKfPHOMETTEI
In nickel silver, with six tunes, 80/-.
Extra l- each.
From 5/6 each to £lO.
The “ Walter Howard ” American Nickel Banjo.
£3 3s.
(gr* Brass and Drum and Fife Bands furnished
throughout. Negro Minstrel Troupes fitted out.
C'arionets, Violin Strings and Fittings, Flageolets,
Drums. Guitars, Harmonicons, Tambourines,
and, in fact, an assortment of every class
of Musical Instrument, from a
Jn’slarflttUOrgu
MUSIC ! MUSIC 1 ! MUSIC ! I I
200,000 Conies New and Popular Music, published
at 3j , 4s, and 5s , sold at 91. per copy.
WORTH OF
MUSIC FOB
All instruments careful acked and forwarded
to any part of the cies.
Lmm mmmmu,
MANAGES.
“IS THERE ROOM FOR MARY THERE?”
“There were 15 prisoners before the Redfern Police Court yesterday, and there is only
dock accommodation for eight.”— Sydney D.T.


PAUL LiEBE
UNLIKE OTHERS
m
\iv
it
C 0
m
ROW
ALCHEMISTS
INIO&200Z BOT :
WHOLESALE AGENT
. AR NOIDBBR,o CESf
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL pre-
serves, strengthens, and beautifies the hair: It
contains no lead or mineral ingredients, and can
now he also had In a golden colour, which is
especially suited for fair or golden-haired children
and persons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ EALTDOR Is a most
cooling, healing, and refreshing wash for the face,
hands and arms, and is perfectly free from any
mineral or metallic admixtures; It disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &o.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TTRB
produces immediately a perfect change In red or
grey hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a glossy and
permanent brown or black, which colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bros.,
B. Prossbb & Co., Sydney.
D* - RIDGE'S
FOOD
for INFANTS aho INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
MDE. DE NOUVELLEI’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E.' Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge: Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of sprrlous and worthless Imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
J. BUTTERFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
Street, Redfern.
Linen G-loss
apm»
The Great Liver Remedy.
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
■lightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
Serlence. They overcome the worst form cf
ilseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
Immediate relief.
484 GEORGE STREET.
MARSHALL'S
TONIC NERVINE
TRADE MARK—“ TONIC NERVINE.”
ABAfB, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CORE lor Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaint!
that spring: from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
By its tonlo and soothing effects it at once
removes all craving for Alcohol. By its richness
in phosphorous anc other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE nour-
lehes and gives vigour t 0 the whole system
Price, 4s. 63. Sold everywhere. Prepared only by
MARSHALL BROTHERS, Sydney, N. S, W. ;
London, Eng.
TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
H
OLLO W AY’S PILLS
A never-failing remedy its all Derangements of
tne LIVER and STOMACH, they may be used with
perfect confidence by young and old.
Their world-wide fame for the last fifty years is
a guarantee of their efficacy. Thousands of testi-
monials, from princes to peasants, attest their
marvellous virtues.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford bt., London
0T Purchasers should look to the Label on the
Boxes and Pots. If the address Is not 533 Oxford-
gtreet, London, they are spurious.
MALTINE.
MALTED BARLEY, WHEAT AND OATS.
The only Extract of Malt containing these three cereals.
One Bottle of Maltine is equal (in digestive power) to from 3 to 5 bottles
of any extract of Malt in the Market.
Digestive value 30 times its own weight.
“ Wheat and Oats are especially rich in muscular and fat producing
elements.—Liebeg.”
Maltine Will increase both the weight a"nd fl sh in most persons of thin habit.
Highly recommended for delicate fern des, weak and debilitated
children and infants, and for mot 1 „ers whilst nursing.
Is very palatable and will be readily taken by the youngest child.
Maltine is invaluable in cases of Consumption, Wasting Diseases, Nervous
Debility, &c., Indigestion, Constipation, and convalescence from Illness.
Prescribed and Recommended by all the leading Physicians and used in the largest
Hospitals. Analysed and approved by the most prominent Chemists of Europe.
Maltine with Pepsine and Pancreatine is the best remedy known
for Dyspepsia, Cholera Infantum, and all diseases resulting from imperfect
digestion. There are few cases that will not readily yield to this preparation.
Maltine with Hypophosphites is most valuable in cases of Consump-
tion, Rickets, Softening of the Bones, and Neuralgia.
Malto Yerbine is the most effective remedy for Bronchitis, Coughs,
Colds, and difficult Expectoration.
Maltine with Cod Liver Oil, an agreeable and effective mode of adminis-
tering Cod Liver Oil.
Maltine with Iron and Quinine, or Iron, Quinine and Strych-
nine a most powerful and nutritive tonic for General Debility, &c.
Maltine with Phosphorus Compound is especially adapted for all
overworked brains and those of sedentary habits, suffering from General
Lsssitude.
Maltine with Alteratives is a remedy of the highest val re in all depraved
conditions of the blood, Scrofula, Ac.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIMITED, LONDON.
Marie Brizardl
Wolfe's Schnapps is known and appreciated
throughout the colonies.
The protoplasm of life has occupied many
of the best thinkers and writers, and the world has
been enriched by their efforts. Life a" d Provi-
dence’s ways are mysteries and unaolvable.
Another mystery is how the beautiful glass and
china goods which is shown at Bray Bros., 403 and
404 George-street, are created, and by whom ?
They seem to be the work of more than mortal
artists.*
Wolfe's Schnapps for the overstrained
nerves.
Now they say that the sting of a bee will
cure rheumatism. It certainly has a tendency to
make a man forget rheumatism for a time. Under
the Impression of an A 1 bee in good working order
men have been known to howl for death, but their
wives always howl to be taken to Summerfleld and
Company, the Great Juvenile Outfitters, 335 and
237, Pitt-street, Sydney, to buy the boys the cele-
brated wear-resisting suits at half a guinea, all of
which are specially manufactured by their London
House.*
Marie BrJzard 1
(CONCENTRATED BEEF, WHEAT, AND MILK).
Containing 95 per Gent, oi nutritious matter. There is nothing to equal
it as a flesh-former, fat and bone producer. Pleasant in odour
andtaste to the most delicate persons.
It is invaluable in cases of Convalescence from all diseases, Pulmonary
affections, Fevers, Pneumonia, Weak Digestion, Gastritis, and all
Stomach Ailments, Dyspepsia, Diarrhoea, Dysentery and all Intestinal
Diseases, Phthisis, Cholera Infantum, Marasmus, Vomiting in Pregnancy,
Sea Sickness, Diabetes, Excessive use of Alcoholic Stimulants, and in
debility resulting from any cause.
Also a valuable adjunct in voyages and camp life. It will build up the system
after severe prostration.
It contains all of the valuable constituents of Beef, Wheat, and Milk.
Being in the form of a dry powder it will keep in any climate.
A few snoonfuls equal to a hearty meal, and being partially digested,
makes but little demand upon the digestive powers.
It possesses 60 times more nutritive substance than Beef Tea, Mutton
of Chicken Broth made in. the ordinary manner.
Gne ounce Of Beef Peptonoids contains more nourishment than five
pints of beef tea prepared from eighty ounces of beef.
It contains ten times more nutritive matter than Liebig’s Extract of Beef,
or similar productions.
' Prescribed and recommended by all leading Physicians, and used in the
.argest hospitals. Analysed and approved by the most eminent chemists in Europe.
SOLD 3Y ALL CHEMISTS.
TEE MALTINEMANUFA CTO RING LONDON.
WATCH
JFPE KIDNEYS.
They are the most important secretory organs.
Into and through the Kidneys flow the waste fluids of
the body, containing poisonous matter taken out of
the system. If the Kidneys do not act properly this
matter is retained, the whole system becomes dis-
ordered, and the following symptoms will follow :
Headache, Weakness, Pain in the Small of back and
loins, flushes of heat, chills, with disordered stomach
and bowels. You can thoroughly protect the Kidneys
by Dr. Bell’s Bitters, and when any of these symptoms
manifest themselves you can quickly rid yourself of
them by this best of all medicines for the Kidneyss—
Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
What is Dyspepsia?
Among the many symptoms of Dyspepsia or Indi-
gestion the most prominent are; —Variable appetite ;
faint, gnawing feeling at pit of the stomach, with un-
satisfied craving for food; heartburn, feeling of
weight and wind in the stomach, bad breath, bad
taste in the mouth, low spirits, general prostration,
headache, and constipation. There is no form of
disease more prevalent than dyspepsia, and none so
peculiar to the high-livingand rapid-eating Australian
people. Alcohol and tobacco produce Dyspepsia;
also bad air, rapid eating, &c. Dr. Bell’s Bitters will
cure the worst case by regulating the bowels and
toning up the digestive organs. Sold everywhere.
Note.—Any poor Person, or the manager of any
Hospital, Asylum, or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously, upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
—* —
BELL’S BITTERS
Manufacturing Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND, & AUSTRALIA.
o—
BUTOHEB, FEHONACO., SYDNEY
AGENTS FOB
New South Wales & Queensland,
Thousands of people have tried
AND PROVED THAT
FATHER WOLFREY’S WORM POWDERS
are the best every way for children and adults.
Prepared only by the undersigned. Price, 6d.
each; by post 7d. When ordering please state
age of patient.
EAMES’
HOREHOUND
AND
COLTSFOOT
SYRUP.
fgnhjf
The best raedi
Cine for reliev
ing coughs,
colds, hoarse-
ness. &c. It has
a great sale in
Sydney. Price,
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d
per bottle.
EAMES’ ANTIBILIOUS PILLS,
Send for list of testimonials. Price, Is., Is. 6d.,
and 2s. per box. By post 2d. extra.
The above may be procured through any chemist
or storekeeper, or direct from
W. D. EAMES, CHEMIST,
Apothecaries’ Hall,
11, OXFORD-STEEET, SYDNEY.
£lO,OOO. £10,000.—“ BARB’S ” GRAND CON*
SULTATION on the MELBOURNE CUP,
to be run on the Fleraington Racecourse, Mel-
bourne, in November, 1886. 20,000 Members at
10s. each, to be divided as follows : —The Highest
Prize is £2OOO, the Lowest £7 10s.
Prizes —lst horse, £2000; 2nd horse, £1000;
3rd horse, £6OO ; Starters (divided), £6OO ; Non-
starters (divided), £9OO.
Cash Awards. —Ten Prizes at £lOO each;
Twenty Prizes at £5O each ; Thirty prizes at £25
each ; Forty prizes at £2O each ; Sixty prizes at
£lO each ; One Hundred £7 10s.
Each Ticket has-seven'chances, and can obtain
a Prize in each of the Seven Drawings, which re-
duces the odds to about six to one ; in fact, One
Ten Shillings Ticket could obtain seven Prizes.
Please send P.O. Orders when convenient, or Bank Notes.
Country Cheques must have One Shilling exchange added,
and marked correct by bank. Two stamps required for reply
and result. The drawing will take place under the 1 super-
vision of a Committee of the Shareholders. All will be done
to ensure the entire satisfaction of Subscribers. Please send
early for Tickets and Register letters. Please address—
“ BARB,”
c. o. T. G. Green, Guildhall Hotel,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
M
0 N U M E N T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on request.
.J. ( IWIM.IIUI.
Mabgabet-street, Wynward-squabb, Sydney.
S
.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Medals—
PARIS, lfc7B; CALCUTTA, 1881, _
for pre eminent excellence of quality.
SPRING FLOWERS'
JOCKEY CLUB
HELIOTROPE
JASMIN
BLAGNOLIA
Atkinson’s renowned
ENGLISH LAVENDER WATER
nnd other well-known Perfumes are un-
equalled for their delightful and lasting odour
ATKINSON’S ORIENTAL TOOTH PASTE.
Unrivalled for cleansing, beautifying, and
preserving the Teeth and Gums.
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers— |
J & E ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Stre*t, London.
Trade Mark—“ White Kosc'' on“ Golden j
fc* Ls ' re -” jS
•VTERVOUSNESS, LOSS of ENERGY and
STRENGTH.—A Gentleman, having tried in
vain every advertised remedy, and discovered a
simple means of cure, will be happy to forward
particulars to sufferers on receipt of stamped
directed envelope.
Address—“ Confidential,” G.P.0., Sydney,
A MILK REFORM,—WATERING THE COW.
“Henry Sharp is to be found at the All Nations Hotel, Bullock Island. Be sure
and call when over there. Bum and milk fresh from the cow every morning at 6 a.m.
—Newcastle (N.S. W.) paper.


v
*
S’ '
&
i
•2>
as. -
<&§»■>. ’x-A,
•'■■« -■-" \\> ■'? vT
■'' |,: -i A ■ n ~\-
v \
The man blows his whistle, the dog wags his tail,
The shutter’s released, the lons cannot fail :
No matter what subject, it’s there on the glass—•
A maiden, an angel, a dude, or an ass.
FhGtogmphic sets, including all requisites for the learner, the student or
the professional, can be had at prices to suit requirements from
LICHTNER AND 00.,
GENERAL PHOTO-STOCK IMPORTERS,
WW 24 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY, [Ca „
$
XH
>
k
!
4-
Mein Gott, dot ain’t a man, und tunnervetter
you preak my glass, too. Yell, it’s too pad
but I got it insured in de
Mutual Plate Glass Insurance Co.
of Australasia, Limited.
Capital .... £85,000.
Head Office ; 80a PITT STREET, SYDNEY
The only Local and Mutual Company, and
the largest in Australasia.
Directors :
Francis Abigail, M.L.A. [ John Graham, Esq.
Jas. H. Walker, Esq. (Walker, Lenon & Co.
John J. Wood, Esq. (Sec. Hudson Bros., Lim.)
Wynn Roberts, Manager.
Plato Glass Fronts, Mirrors, &c., of all
descriptions covered against risk of breakage,
at lowest current rates.
&
W«-Y«cc
M'OARTHY & CO.,
TOBACCO
669 George-street, Haymarket, Sydney.
S3T- Depot for all Cameron Bros, and Co.’s renowned Tobaccos.
Importers of Havanna and Manilla Cigars. A large and superior assortment
of Meerschaum, Briar, and Clay Pipes.
Sole agents for the celebrated Buffalo Tobaccos, Cigars, and Cigarettes
Manufacturers of Nonpareil Cigarettes. N. B. Trade parcels at Factory Prices'
SPECIAL PRICES AT
THE ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
All Goods Marked in Plain Figures.
We invite inspection of our large and well-assorted stock of all classes of Furniture, Crockery,
Glassware, E.P. Ware, Cutlery, Furnishing Drapery, &c.
Also,
G OUR ENORMOUS STOCK OP BEDSTEADS,
AT
WONDERFUL
PRICES.
0
AT
WONDERFUL
PRICES.
£2 15s. BRASS MOUNTED HALF-TESTER BEDSTEADS, FULL SIZE, WITH EXTEND-
ING FOOT RAIL. OTHER DESIGNS AT THE SAME PRICE.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Next tho Royal Hotel),
WILLIAM FLEMING. 22 & 24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
FLEH INS’S
RBXJABLB
imui.
FIRST GRADE,
STYLE,
[QUALITY
and
FINISH.
USED by ALL the
Leading Citizens.
NOT HOW CHEAP,
BUT HOW GOOD I
*
I
%
FLEMINS’S
WAGGONS
and
Harness,
[Specially Importe*.
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Call andlnepcet.
OHO-AM'S !
SOLE AGENTS FOB THE ‘2
“SMITH."
BRUCE & MASSEY,
F,
197 Pltf-st, Sydney.
OFFORD & CO.’S HAIS
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
Next to Royal Hotel, and at 652 George Street.
mo.
wh j-ors
15 1-Jps
ov
0
&
V
0°
Tramway /.and Sale Room
' . Street rt
LEA & PERRI NS'SAUCE
SAUC
rrim s .
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrins
have to request 'that Purchasers see that the Label on every bottle
bears their Signature thus —
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is gemline.
LE r £, af f li PRRRINS Sauce, and see Name on Wrap-her, Label, Bottle and
stopper Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse and
mackwell, London , dr’s., 6y. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Wholesale Agents : Montefiore, Joseph & Co.; David Cohen & Co., Sydney.
ghj
The "LOUIS’*
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the CSenoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes and “
Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact
for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
may be used we specially recommend
the “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of “ Louis."
May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
send patterns
POST FREE OH
application.
St
Tm
UL vW" ‘
«•* $>
fghnj
>5
GOT
Ba
Shoe
AAR
252 a
George
PecUe
Sydpjsv
lale
aruP fftxrci9iLrl>
"Sumam
AGU A R A.NTEE with
eacb olpe for real
M e e r s c ja am and
Fire-proof Briars. Repairs, &o.
S. ROSENTHAL, Pipemakeiv
1 Llitle Colllns-strcet, East, Melbourne.
Illustrated Catalogues on application
rjIHE CLIMAX OF PERFECTION
MONTSERRAT
LIME FRUIT JUICE SAUCE.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
GENTLEMEN’S CLOTHEiS REPAIIiD
AND CLEANED
AT
139 CABTLEREAGH&.STRBBT,
Near Market-street.


Wolfe's Schnapps has become the mos
popular drink throughout the Colonies.
Marie Brizardl
Certainly one of the most successful City Hotels, in respect
Of first-class Wines, Spirits, &c., and with regard to Lun-
cheon, is Hanney’s Great Northern Hotel, Charlotte-place.
A first-class Luncheon is provided from 12 to 3, which is
patronised by the commercial men in this part of the city.
Just make one call, and we are sure you will be satisfied.*
Wolfe's' Schnapps cheers the mind and
body.
A LAME BiCK IS A TORMENT.
It is usually ascribed either to a strain or to
rheumatism. Nine times out of ten it is kidney
disease. Be wise in time, take Dr. Bell’s (Kidney
and Liver) Bitters for your lame back and avoid
the dangers of which it is the warning.
The public should be careful they are not
Imposed upon with imitations of Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Kidney complaint, one of th® mostoommon
and yet most neglected diseases of this country,
can be readily cured by the use of Hop Bitters.
Be sure and get American Co.’s make. See
People are loud in their praise of the merits
of Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Marie Brizard 1
Wolfe’s Schnapps taken before meals is a
wonderful appetizer. Try it.
Mittchell’s old established and reliable original
seform chemist shop, 141 King-street, was recently
purchased by A. A. Kigncy, of Bega, who will
conduct both establishments on the standard prin-
ciples for which ho is well known.
It is much better not to drink at all if you
cannot obtain the genuine Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Mario B'izsrdl „ ,
Consult Dr. Boyd, Pomeroy Chamber*, 39 Castlereagh
street (upstairs), Graduate in Medicine and Surgery, Regis-
tered Physician of New South Wales. Office hours ; 10 a.m,
to 4 p.m. Paralysis, deformities, nervous, and female
diseases a speciality. Box 120 G.P.O.*
When the vital system has been weakened
—use Wolfe’s Schnapps to renovate It.
Premier ball-room decorators of New
South Wales. Sale and Dare, decorators. Ball
and banquet rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations, fJOHi Hunter-street
Sydney.*
Marie Brizard 1
J. M. ELLEROAMP,
GLOVER, HOSIER, AND MEN’S MERCER,
AND IMPORTER OF
Ladies’ English and Foreign Boots and Shoes,
15 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BEST HOUSE IN THE COLONY FOR SHILLING SCARFS.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DPVINB (BEAR, Brass A Nleksl-platsd SHOP FRONTS,
.Hydrant*, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, Ac.
tr Braes and Bell Pounding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Ooppersmithhig, Blackemithing,
Plumbing, Qasfltting, Tank and Girder Building, Eleetrio and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
BOULTON’S "fLUBH-OUT," "VALVB.” A "PAN” CLOSETS, "VACUUM” WATUR-WABTI
PRBYBNTKBS, &e.
So/e Agents for ferity Bros. Patent An* Propellers, Exhaust Pan
Cowls, BUS Fires, Heaters, Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 A 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Pull particulars and price on application. -
Bo bmt butoiib * o;o,
(L«te William Long),
MT WIN! AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
BM GEORGE STREET,
OPPOBITI THI TOWN HALL, BTDNIT
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
RAW YASELIXE.
A
HORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
Collar Check and Serge, 10 and H inches ;
Large assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s Saddles, Spurs, and all kinds of
Saddlers’ Ironmongery, &c.
'BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS, AND SADDLERS
IRONMONGERS,
125 YORK ST., SYDNEY.
SOUTH WALKS PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED ,
Capital, £lOO.OOO.
ARow Interest as follows :-S EVEN PER CENT on
and l°L 12 months; FIVE PER CENT.
rpMin „„ ARI)S - for shorter periods; FIVE PER
BraneL°pf from £I to £5O in the Savings Bank
wench, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
J. V. WAREHAM. Manager.
Listen to Your Wife.
The Manchester Guardian, June Bth, 1883, says :
At one of the
“ Windows
Looking On the woodland ways ! With clumps
of rhododendrons and, great masses of May
blossoms ! ! ! “ There was an interesting group.
It included one who had been a “Cotton spinner,”
but was now so
Paralysed ! ! !
That he coifld only bgar to lie in a reclining
position.
This retell to my ease. ~
I was first Attacked twelve years ago with
“ Locomote-r Ataxy”
(A paralytic difftsKse of nerve fibre rarely ever cured)
and was foT sCVcwil years barsly able to get about.
And for the last Five years not able to attend to
my business, although
Many things have bees dope for me.
The last experiment behig nerve stretching.
Two years ago I was voted into the
Home for InetlraMos ! Near Manchester, in May,
1882.
lamno “ Advocate ” ! “ For anything in the
shape of patent ” Medicines ?
And made many objections to my dear wife’s
constant urging to t»y Hop Bitters, but finally to
pacify her —
Consented ! !
I had not qitite finished the first bottle when I
felt a change come over me. This was Saturday,
November 3rd. Qa Sunday morning I felt so
strong I said to my room companions, “ I was sure
I could
“ Walk !
So started across the floor and back.
I hardly knew how to contain mysdlf, I was all over the
house. lam gaining stnpngth each day, and can walk quite
safe without any
‘‘Stick!"
Or Support.
I am now at my »wn house, and hope soon to he able to
earn my own living again. I have been a member of the
Manchester
“ Royal Exchange '
For nearly thirty years, and was most heartily congratulated
on going in the room cm Thp»day last. Very gratefully
yours. John Blackburn
Manchester, (Eng.) Dec. 24, 1883,
Two years later am perfectly well.
Prosecute the Swindlers I !
If when you call for American Hop Bitters ( see green tmig
of Hops On the white label emdfDr. Soule’s name blown in the
bottleJ. the vendor haixk out anything but American Hop
Bitters, refuse it and sfmn that vendor as you would a viper;
and if he has taken your money for ivniMki/ig Use Indict him •
for the fraud and sue him for *lamageHor the swindle, and*
v e will pay you liberally for the'co'hvibtion.
Never Travel Without It;
Wanted in Eve ry House.
nfgh
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS
ALL NOXIOUS INSECTS
FLEAS, FLIES. BEETLES MOSCtU ITO ES.
COCKROACHES, AND IS
trtsim CTtM rwjitr
HARMLESS TO BI RDS DOGS
FOWLS OR,OTHERJK
jfghj
yutu
m
FELTON-GRIMWAOEV.C?
-—Melbourne
Wanted in Every House-
Ask for KRUSE'S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
c .\u
PATENT
LLS
P
05
$
.Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushing's of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness.seurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &e. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
done it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few dos'es of- them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEEGHAM’S
PILLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the systesa. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
moat important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of- health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &e., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Beecham’s
Cough Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be
removed.
Cautioh. — The public are requested to notice that
the words “ Beecham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.,
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St, Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. l|d. and 2s. 9d.
each. —Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B. —|ffill directions are given with each box.
Tha New Furniture end
Carpet Warehousa.
ki, Lmi Ins., I Is.,
39 CA8TLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
'AT
Less than English Prices.
EIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
With three spare leaves, In
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING ROOMS,
At the Exceeding y Low Price of £5 15s
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER SUITES,
At Correspondingly Low Prices,
Furniture for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY.
1HS DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING-ROOM.
BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEADS,
In Great Variety.
JONES, LAWSOF” BROS., & GO.
39 CASTLEBEAGH STREET,
FREE B POST, for six penny stamps, a
Medical Treatise, by that eminent French
Hospital Physican and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Man
hood, &c., &g., without consulting a medical man.
Address Parisian, P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
•-* V
Cf'* .
«*>• .
ji -. i-
'r
V,' _ ..
4?
w.miaco.
LIMITED,
356 Goorge-strast,
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
PIANOS, ORGANS
and
MUSIC
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
BAST TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM,
Eyery Instrument Guaranteed.®
Catalogues & Prices on Application.
W. H. PALING & Co
SS6 George-street, Sydney.
•0} T[}dniojcl sjgp.iQ XjqunoQ
•89Jj qsod sanSoi'B^'BQ
'ahngas ‘xaaaxs xxid sos ‘aavoav 3100 a
S(M3OIMAO HHVmiM
qv AV9TA no sTpavip sjfoog
puuqpuoosg pun Aiojst gaimOA UUU 6
poSampxg; uo ‘ppg ‘iqgnojp
sxooe sxooa a sxooa
WILLIAM BULLARD’S GREAT SALE Of
MUSIC. STATIONERY, and FANCV
GOuDS. Expiration of Lease, and Condemnation
of Premises. Continued Great Sale of Musio,
Stationery Books, fancy Goods, including the
most extraordinary collection of the choicest
Japanese Works of Arts, Plaques, Bowls, Cloisonni
Vases, &0., the whole of which must be cleared
out. Discount 25 ner cent, reduction on the old
prices Music.—Thirty shillings worth of nr-sic at
the old prices can now be had for One Pound. This
grand stock comprises, amongst other items,
Sheet Music, Songs, Solos, and Duets
Piano Pieces, Solos, and Duets, and all the newest
and most popular Dance Music
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &o.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Braes Band Music, in variety
Book Music-all the most popular works
BOOKS comprise every kind of Literature—Pre-
sentation Volumes, in prose and verse ; Books,
suitable for prizes for boys a d gir's; Nautical
V orks, Books on Engineering an Surveying,
Dictionaries, &c ; ano a eboieo library of Reli-
gious work«, by standard authors
JAPANESE BRONZES, Wall Hangings. Em-
broideries, Vases, Plaques, Pans, Ash Trays,
&i3cl Trays
PHOTO ALBUMS in Plush, Morocco, Leather,
and Calf, profusely Illustrated, all sizes, at
wonderfully low prices
ACCOUNT BOOKS, Ledgers, Day andCashßooksj
Press Copying Books in every style and bind-
ing, or made to order
LETT kR PAPER. Envelopes, the cheapest in
Sydney. Samples and prices may be obtained
on application.
HANDBAGS Purses, Card Cases, Photo, frames,
of every kind and description
ARTISTS MATERIALS-Solid Sketch Blocks,
Drawing Copies, Paint Boxes, Mathematica,
Instruments, &o.
Music Catalogues gratis on application.
Goods forwarded on receipt of money order or
postage stamps.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
M 2 GKOItO E STREET.
The Old-Fashioned Trousers Stretcher.


TONE-THROWING AT REDPERN.
“Johann Pumpernickel I ”
Yah, dat vhas me.”
‘Well, you are charged with throwing stones at,
and[wounding, John Elliott, tne driver of a baker’s
cart. How do you plead ? ”
“ Yhell, I likes do dell you ell about id. You see,
I vhas dree ya-s in dis country und —”
“Never mind, about that. Why did you throw
stones at the baker’s c rt ? ’
“Vhell. I goes mit mineself up Clcveland-streed,
und I hafs mine dog along mit a rope, und dat drifer
he comes along und he sings at me some songs
aboudt Kysar doan’ you like to buy some dogs, and
d n ►'e lotfi like every dings ? ’
“ Rut is your name Kystr ?’•
‘Neln. Only he muses sbokcs mit me, und I
do ■an’ like it some more, und 1 drow sle'.n at him.”
Weil, you mustn’t take the law into your own
bands in this country, Mr. Pumpernickel. The
plaintiff is Severely bruisad through you knocking
him out of the cart, and the best part of a bottle of
St Jacobs Oil had to be rubbed into him before he
could get home. Youwil have to pay for that
and a cab, and in addition you will be lined £3, or
one month.”
“Dat vas sem? more shokes on me. I doan’ haf
no diea pound. I gifs you den shillin’next week,
und de next dime 1 goes along mit my dog, und
somebody says Kyser, I ”
“That will do, Mr. Pumpernickel; the carriage
will be rourd tor you directly. Call the next
0189.”
LW A Y
THE
SAME.
Reading up for I onora, or learning how to pull,
Riving on a station, growing beef or wool,
Keeping your apnr iatments, or looking fora wife,
Ihe Waterbury Watch Is the surest guide in life.
Down In a diving bell, or up la a balloon,
Gathering the octopus, or shooting at the moon,
Praaching in the pulpit, or riding in a race,
The Waterbury Watch is never out of place.
It is sold for’ 13s. 63. by all Storekeepers and'
Dealers throughout the Colony.
WATERBURY WATCH CO.,
54 Margaret-street,
Sydney.
KiulfTfiCAW
An Editorial opinion of the Waterbary Watoh
from a leading Qneecs'and journal According to
a leading London paper, the Waterbury Watch la
making a complete revolution in the lower strata
of metropolitan society. At all times a great deal
is being done, and a great deal more is being said,
about the reformation of the Cockney thief, and
considering how much material there la to work
Upon in the British capita', the city missionary
could hardly ask for a more promising field of
labour. But In spite of ail exertions, the results
achieved have been very small. At Salvation
Array meetings, the “ convsrted pickpocket ” is a
great institution, but this whitewashed gentleman
ta genera!y a fraud, who “fakes” all sorts of
sinful little games during the day, and relates flc-
tltleos spiritual experiences at night, varying the
amusement, perhaps, on Sundays by joining a Sal-
v ?il o s, proCe ?, sl P n ' wpere he marches in triumph
with Happy Sally on onetile and Hallelujah Jane
on the other. Very often, indeed, this individual’s
sudden repentance is marred by his tendency to
“nickthe tickers” of his new associates, when
they possess any, which is not very often. There
is something in the pursuits of a pickpocket which
appears to exercise a fascination over the fol-
lowers of that profession and their regeneration—
so long as there are watches to be stolen—is a
difficult task. Watches, it is hardly neceesary to
mention, are their chief source of livelihood. A
man’s purse is often difficult of access, for the
very sufficient reasons that there are half a douen
different pockets where it may be concealed, that
it may be in none of the said pockets after all, and
that he may not have a purse, while even if it be
secured it is not unlikely to prove empty. The
watch, therefore, is the pickpokefs great reliance
iQ LondoDy and tb© Waterbury, it appears, is ruin-
ing the trade. Poverty is getting to be universal,
and consequently this very humble timekeeper is
becoming common among all classes, from the
Irish peer, who cannot collect bis rents until Par-
nell be dead, down to the clay-hooted, but once
prosperous farmer from Stoke Pogis or Chump,
ford. According to one Indignant swell mobsman,
a case bas been known where, out of 57 watches
appropriated, nearly four dozen were of the Britan-
nia metal description, and a run of such ill-fortune
means positive ruin. J ike Abrahams, of Caper-
naum and Uoundsdltch, who buys up miscellane-
ous properties, offers about four shillings a dozen
for these useful but despised horologes, anl in-
sists on a baker’s dozen at that, and consequently
“Ply Bill,” “Brummagem Charley,” and "Plash
Dick,” together with the rest of the noble army
of martyrs so well known at the old Bailey, are
almost reduced to adopting the paths of honesty
through sheer pressure of misfortune. Whether
the reformation will prove permanent or not is a
neint yet to be settled, but if one of the principal
London newspapers is to be believed, the Water-
bury promises to run the Salvation Army, the
Blue Ribbon Society, and a number of other or-
ganisations very close as an instrument for pro-
moting human regeneration.—Rockhampton Bul-
letin 1
*\HB PURE AND BEAUTIFUL
JL “SNOWFLAKE”
THE CHAMPION BRAND OP KEROSENE
direct from the
REFINERY of LOMBARD, AYBE3, gnd CO,
NEW YUKK.
Burnt in a clean lamp, with a “Wamsutta”
vies, there is no other light which cm compare
with it for boupebok and general use.
IT IS 150 DEGREES FIRE TEST, THEREFORE
ABSOLUCitLY SAFE ; AND ONCE USBu WILL
MAIN! V ITS POSITION aGAINST ALL
OTHER BRANDS,
Itcan be obtained from Messrs. W. S. Friend and
Co.. Mason Bros, Limited, E. Kirchner and Co.,
M’Gregor, Harris, and Co., George Griffith aad
Co.,T. Vf.'E dy anl Son D, Conen and Co., Potts,
and Paul, Holds worth and Co,. F. Butcher,
Holdsworth, Macpherson, & Co., Walter, Lemon
and Co., M’Leao, Bros, and Rigg. and W. Tlllock
& Go., D. Mitchell and Go , Allt and Co., and John
Barlow and Co..
BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
On Saturday next, 14th August, the Sydney
fifayole Club will hold, on the Association Cricket
(Ground, their fifth annual Intercolonial cham-
pionship race meeting, which is looked upon by
Bike people ps the event of the year. Toe chief
item, the lOmues championship, at present held
by C. R. Wood, on paper looks a certainty for the
demon Dwyer, the champion of Victoria, who wi
be opposed by A. B Browne. J. H H. Busst,
Stewart, J S. Foulßes, C. R. Wood, W H. Ballar
and F. C Evans. The same man compete for tle
one and two miles scratch races, and, given a fine
day, the records should have a bit of a knockl
about.
* * ♦
Unfortunately for themselves, the Lanee
have picked upon the same day for their meeting,
to coble off on the ad j fining Agricultural Grounc.
Thjnvs looked remarkably blue tor the Blcyo
Pep le when the rumour went forth that t
Governor was going to compete at the Lanee
show, and that the latter.would have a monopoly
the gubernatorial parly, but the rumour prover
without foundation, and we understand that Lore
Carington has now promised to witness the prlno -
pal events at the Association Ground. The bicyc
people have the sympathy of the public, as t le
Lancers jumped the date fixed upon so long ago
by the Sydney B.C , and taking into consideratio
the superior accommodation at the Aesooiatio
Ground in the way of stand and lawn, we fane/
me Bikes have a long way the better show for t i
larger attendance.
* ♦ ♦
We hear from Melbourne that the foothal
field has sacrificed another victim, in the person o ’
O’Brien, who died last week through injuries r
ceived in the match Seymour and Avenei. Dalle
was “Right Hon.’d ” and there was a big fusi ov
the danger “ our boys’’ran In their deadly assau
<-i he Suakim Canteen, a d yet we would rath
rough out half-a-dozen Soudan campaigns than
season on the average football field.
* * *
A Yankee paper says there is somethin
attractive about Sullivan’s style despite bis toug
ness and haughty contempt for the rules of Bn
Hah grammar In an interview with a newspep
man the mighty slugger Is reported to have de
vered himself of the following in re his fight wi
Charley Mitchell:— ■* What makes my heart ache
said the mignty slugger, looking me very hard :n
the eye, ”isd' way d’ public goes on about da ;
little mill. Did I bes’ Mitchell, or d’n I ? I don
him brown an-’ licked ’im till d’ perliee stopped
fight. Whad den ? Every udder chump In d’hu
country goes on making remarks ’bout Mltche
doin’ me up. Whad s the bes’ test of a straigh
fighter ?—the hull uv th’ gate money to go to 1 1’
winner, ain’t dat so ? If a man is sure he kin wl
won’ he fight fur d’ hull prize and take d’ chancef
on all or nothin’? TJv course. Well, 111 fight any ma
in d world on de xi conditions. I don’t care whad
his colour, or his size, or his we)ght-I’il give hi
every advantage and fight fur d’ hull receipts er
blank. ¥in yo’ find a man on de face ot d' cart r
that’ll do the same wid me ? Nix. The man do
live wha! ’ll take d’ chances.” Here the ctmmpio
leaned back and stared harder yet. His argu
ment was conclusive and he knew it. After
short pause he shook his big hand to emphasiz
his words, and continued Mitchell’s a gooc
man an’ a plucky one, but y’ kin betcher your lit
he don’ come here an’ spar me, the winners t
take d’ null gate-money. Not be. He gits his per
centage win or lose In d’ match, on July fl/f, o
else he won' come. An’ yit he has d’ nerve to g
on talkin’ ’bout my bein’ afraid uv him I It make
me sore In my heart, dat’s what It does ” Pa
Bheedy, Sullivan’s manager, is stated to be the oni
man who has any Influence over the champion
Sheedy is a gambler by occupation, and the story
goes that Sullivan once made a feint to strik
Sheedy curing the one and only dispute they ev<r
had. As the champion drew back his fist, th
smooth-faced and unemotional gambler leane
forward until nis face was within half a foot
that of the,angry pugilist. “I don’t fight than
way, John, ’ he said, quietly. “When L make u
my mind to fight you, you’re gone You know
me. I never ruu a bluff, but this is a fair warning
and tne only one you’ll ever receive.” Sullivan
looked Into the ea:m, gray eye ot the man aboun
whom so many stories of extraordinary nerve anc
quickness are recorded, ana dropped his hand.
♦ * ♦
An English paper says Unusual in
terest is being aroused this year by the la wn-tenni s
championship meeting. A young fetool-girl ha
been discovered who is expected to vanquish th
lady champion, and a determined set Is to be mad
against Mr. Renshaw, who for years has held hi
own against all comers at Wfinbledon. Hlthert
bis twin brother and Mr. Lawford alone hav
dared to enter the lists against Urn; butamal
player haa also been discovered who has run
through the ranks of minor players with metenn
rapidity, and is expected to lower the colours o
the hltnerto unconquered champion.”
p * «
Beach in his practice does not find the
Thames quite such a clear course for rowing a
his old love, the Parramatta. Oa June 20, he
collided with a skiff, and on the following aay b
was just warned in time to avoid a crash in o a
boat moored in mid-stream.
* * «
On June IS, Archer and Wood, the crack
English jockeys, had each scored 55winsouto
lb 6 and 155 mounts respectively.
* * *
The benefit to Professor Jackson, which
came off at Foley’s Athletic Hal 1 , on Saturday
night, drew a big attendance, and turned out by
far the test night s boxing yet seen at this popular
temple ot the noble art. Light spars between
such “ monsters of the art ” as tne respective pro-
leasionai and ■ mat* Ur champions (Lawrence Foley
and Mr. George S»ale), Newton and Lees, and
” Professor ’ Jackson and a pupil, necessarily fur-
nish displays of a high order, of the slogging con-
tests, what promised to he best fight of the ulgnt,
between Fogarty and Smith—the lad who recently
fought M’Cartby, was brought to an early ter-
mination. We never saw Fogarty fight to such
advantage. His ducking was good, and in the
( seeond round ha brought Smith down with a
.craahing right-hander oa the point of the jaw.
Fogarty Is not loved by the crowd, but to give the
,devil his due, his “duck,” had it been done by a
■favourite, would have been cheered to th" echo,
looked upon as a clever p'ece of boxing,
but the crowd and the rtferee thought fit
to look upon it as bugging, and upon the latter
giving a caution in this respect, Fogarty did the
correct thing in quietly taking off the gloves and
leaving the stage. Molioy gave away a lot of
reach and weight in meeting O’Donnell, but
although the long ’un took the lead in the two first
rounds, Molioy put in some good work towards
the finish. Hickey appeared a bit "off colour,”
and did not show his usual cleverness in his “go”
with M’Carty, who had the best of four rounds.
Paddy Moran went for Kelly on the knock-out
Srlncip'e, but he rather overdid It, as, although he
ad the call in toe second round, he fell weak, and
Kelly would have had a good show of besting him
had not the last round been a remarkably short
three minutes. Meadows does not as a rule go in
for ding-dong work, but having a mere stripling
In front of him on Saturday, he thougbt it sate to
change nls tactics. Another such exaibition and
Meadows will “get hims-df dissikod.”
♦ * *
Aline track, la”ge attendance, and. good
entries promised well for Sidney Driving Park
Club trotdng race*, on Saturday last, at the Agr -
cultural Ground, but the management, or rataer
want ot it, went a long way to spoil the after-
noon’s sport. Koe’s number went upas winner of
the Pony Race, but Gadfly w iseveutually dtCiared
the winner, and complications arose between
layers and baek-rs. The club shoula frame a first
past the post rule, or fly a "correct” flug, as at
tcandwick. Brin came in first for the opening
heat of the Grand Distance Handicap, but the joy
ufti3 many followers was but short lived for—
an occ ( r in j ustice to Ireland —thejudgeo iscovered,
fitter cotsideration, ihatt’ie hoitt; had g ne round
once too often, and Dollie was declared the win
ner. Gentle Annie, a beautiful little black mar
from \ iotorla, won the second heat; and Tommy
a mere handful, with 500ydg. start, finished aheac
of the grand actioned Huon for the third heat
The final between Tommy, Gentle Annie, an
.Dollie resulted la a win for Tommy, who wa
splendidly ridden by the Gross-country rider, Jame
Gardiner with the exception of one, all the race
were won in the saddle, which would appear tc
suit the track better than the harness.
* ♦ *
The Gordon Football Club have been
beaten at last, the conquerors of the hitherto in
ylncibles turning up In the Balmains, who mus
tered an exceedingly strong team and just won
by nve points to four. The game was somewhat
rough and not particularly open or fast, the
placers trusting more to brute strength than
to science. The result of this match leaves Uni-
versity In the van for the Gardiner Challenge Cup
as they have only been defeated once and are now
ahead of the Gordons as regards points. It is to be
hoped, however, that arrangements may be now
made for a return match between the two crack
clubs, as the game would create no end of interest
to lovers of the game.
* * *
It was a bit of a “ throw in ” for the
“ next best ” when Myers and George, the respec-
tive champion American and English peds., took
to the professional cinder path, and we now see
the English amateur. Snook, has followed in their
footsteps, and has had the honour of being put
scratch in a professional mile handicap in the
North of England. George made a nice
little lump of gate-money out of the Cummings
engagement. His trip to America meant a jolly
holiday, and about £5OO profit for running tnree
races, and he has, says an American paper, been
offered and has accepted a good berth with some
wnolesale chemists in the States,
♦ * *
The London Referee thus holds forth on
English and Australian cricketing expeditions :
—“ One of the first undertaken as an English spe-
culation caused 111-feeling and dissension among
members of Its team which are not forgotten hy
survivors Both on this and the other side of the
equator the cooperations accounts were chal-
lenged, and the challenges were never accepted.
Later, Australian betting men became mixed up
in a professional eleven’s matches, and, though
THE COCOA-NUT RELIGION.
MISSIONARY: “O, JACKY, IS THAT ALL YOU’VE BROUGHT? HOW CAN YOU
EXPECT THE LORD TO LOVE YOU FOR ONE LITTLE COCOA-NUT?"
the charges of attempting to sell a great game
were hushed up. they were never satisfactorily
met or disproved. The latest tour s history is one
of a prolonged squabble, in which—to use plain
English—our side tried to outwit Murdoch's, with
tho result that good sportsmen were disgusted
with both lots, and the wrangl-rs over cutting up
expected plunder couldn’t get the plunder to cut
up.”
• * *
Under Association rules, anlnterprovincial
match was played on Sydney Association Ground
on Saturday, between teams irom the Metropolitan
ana Northern districts, and resulted in a win for
the former by 7 goats 13 behmds to 1 goal 5 behlnds.
The Northeuers were weakened by the absence of
some Wa'lsend men, who refused to take part In
the match.
* * *
More complications in the rowing world.
The cable now tells us that Wallace Ross, who
could not be backed against Hanlan or I eemer
for a shilling, has now been matched to row Wil-
liam Beach for £5OO a-side, the race to take place
after the International Sweepstakes. The loss of
prestige can ed bv the easy defeat of the other
colonial scullers has, no doubt, had a deal to Co
with the matching of Gaudaur and Ross against
the champion, but wa do not fancy the Yankees
will had the overrating extends to Beach, at least
so far as Wallace Ross is concerned.
* • m
Beach’s prospects are certainly not im-
proved by the face taat Hanlan’s latest conqueror,
Teemer, has been donkey-licked by Gaudaur. Ac-
cording to all accounts, Teemer tried all he knew
in this last match, and was beaten by a quarter of
a mile over a tine* mile course. Taking collateral
Ji .eS: Gaudaur could give Hanlan something like
half a mile over the same distance. The Canadian’s
sudden collapse has got professional sculling form
into a tangle, which only a meeting between
Gaudaur and Beach can unravel.
* ♦ ♦
The Yi toria Racing Club has been in
existence 23 year-, and has paid £318,000 for the
encouragement of horae-racing. Last y=ar £65 009
whs taken at Flemington, and the net profits were
£30,000.
* • •
Finney has easily defeated Beckwith in a
500-j ards swim for what was virtually the oham-
pion S h ! p of England. After this It is to be hoped
trat young Beckwith's pretensions to pose as a
phenomenon are finally disposed of. Ever since
he was a mere child “ Willie ’’ has been puffed and
advertised by his worthy father until the public
had come to accept him as a great swimmer. He
never was anything of the sort, nor does It at all
follow that Finney is In very grand form. The
Victorians fancy that young Kenny could polish
eff the pair of them.
* * *
His Excellency Governor Carington has
become patron of the Sydney Bicycle Club.
A correspondent, dating from one,of the
I camps on a section of railway now In course of
construction la N.B, W., writes: Dear Bulletin:—
“A great injustice to « lot of us working men Is
the practice of subletting which Is extensively
practised on this line. It very generally happens
that the sub contractor cannot make wages out of
t e Job and he “chucks It up,” and then the poor
men have to take whatever the contractor chooses
to give them in lieu of their proper wages. Now I
think that in justice to the working man this
practice of subletting ought to be abolished by the
Minister of Works, or the contractor held liable
for the men’s wages in case tne sub-contractor
should happen to go insolvent-or, as the saying
is, forget to square up before he leaves the job.
As your paper la not afraid to speak for the under
dog, I hope that you will do this long-suffering
class the favour of publisnlng the above few facts
to let the public know w hat tho working men have
to suffer.—Yours, &o„ Young Tirowen.
William J. Hirlsford, upon whose evidence
as approver Liddiard was executed for murder at
Grafton, has just been sentenced to two years’
imprisonment for writing what Judge Murray
described as “ one of the most disgusting threaten-
ing letters he had ever read.” It will be remem-
bered that Liddiard, even while the rope was
round his neck, persisted In stating that Hirlsford
alone nad committed the murder. There is an
awkward suspicion as to the possibility of Hirls-
ford’s having piled perjury on to the top of his
other crimes. His was choice evidence to hang
another man upon, anyhow.
a. public holiday appears to rank second
only to the purchase of a War Gry as an un-
profitable speculation. At Tumut (N.d.W.) two
you opr men made me of an occasion set ana t
recently for a local drunk to pro out for a drive,
and on the way they endeavoured to cross a river
in their vehicle. The attempt was so unsuccessful
that they were compelled to undress and swim to
the horses’ headr, and, finally, to cut away the
harness. As the result the buggy at once
oaosized and drifted down tho stream, while
the pants and other luggage disappeared as com-
pletely as Moses when the light went out, leaving
two caked youths and a pair of wet horses as the
sole survlvorsof the original procession. After some
debate one of the nude unfortunates gallantly
volunteered to ride to the nearest station to look
for relief, and bis expedition resulted in his pro-
curing “an old trouser and coat.” “A trouser,”
unluckily is a garment seldom worn la the colo-
nies but presumably tho other one of the pair
had been worn away by friction against the gritty
walls of time. He then rode into town where he
procured a suit (or his companion, who had mean-
while been shivering in a modified costume on the
river-bank, and out of regard for propriety we
can only hope that he concealed the other leg dur-
ing his journey behind the shadow of his solitary
pant, otherwise vexatious results may arise, not
utterly unconnected with the glorious N,B.W
Flogging Act.
Tha inspection of the Australian riflemen
by the Duke of Cambridge must have been a soul-
stirring display. There were five of them, and the
Commander-in-Chlef, we understand, gave a
whole day to the job. The first two hours were
devoted to insnecting Grime?, who had won the
40). prize, H.R.H. commencing by taking the rear
elevation and working from the boots upwards.
At first he went in for performing the task very
minutely, but when dinner-time came and he had
only finished reviewing the patient nearly up to
the waist, he grew a little tired and inspected the
rest of Grimes in about half an hour. After a
substantial dinner the work was resumed, and
three more men were inspected by i o clock, but
fatigue, Induced by prolonged exertion, then ren-
dered the military fossil almost incapable of pro-
ceeding. Accordingly ho adjourned home and
reviewed the last rifleman by means of an opera-
glass, the Australian forces being afterwards com-
plimented through the telephone upon their
excellent appearance. A large concourse of people
were present aad manifested great Interest m the
spectacle.
