

sd
At 15 per cent, discount oif list
prices.
At 25 per cent discount off list
prices.
[he Queen i The Favoriie
favorites j
fgs
df
gsd
fg
sdf
g
ITHE BIGGEST SUCCESS
W»*L
lo« st (jsr'n"**
Liberal Time Payment Sgstem
HICHOLSOrUC"
NICHOLSON S CORNER. GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
At one-tliird and one-fourth
the marked price!
Colson & CO., 325 George Street, Sydney.
The
Bulletin
NEW SERIES
Wm&HiL
®Qd+\A/
0r K ing and Saw-Mill Machinery.
' F *‘ GREGORY and CO.,
Are SOLE AGENTS for
& CO., CINCINNATI
*** JtEnr LARGB STOCK OF THEIR CELEBRAT7 fl> MACHINES.
{W FOR WOOD-WORKING AND SAW -MILLING IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogues and Prices.
»>re,. 17 PITT STREET. Cir cular Quay, Sydney.
E doodle
gnesaßg
4
'
? v ?Nfic SOU s
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
= '»
•ciV^39^4^4r o
m
TOMBAC C O , it
LB,
VOM6BB the largest Factory, Muaufacttuea 'ore
Tobacco, and oonsume more It saf
(here.
>OR, sir Borer, Champion, and Dlxaon’a Out Tobacco*.
24 O’Connell-street, Sydney,
PHOTOORAPHIC STOCK DEALEI
**•
Complete Photographic Outfits, in great variety, from 413. Cataiopues post
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
SO LB AGENTS foe BAKER’S DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and RAPID In the Market,
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies.
OOTS
OOTS
T. WILLIAMS * CO.,
IMPO_iTfeRS OP
BRITI8H.& FOREIGN BOOTB & SHOES;
Also, Manufacturers of
TV' fin 'at quality of Goods in th above lines
27b and 412 George-st., Sydney.
MOE.S
hoes


ASK FOR COLONIAL MADE
WIRE
PROOF
PROOF
NETTING
BRAND.
CHEAPER THAN IMPORTED.
MANUFACTURED BY
JOHN LYSAGHT, Llmtd.,
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SYDNEY.
SCHWEITZER’S COCOATINA.
Anti-Dyspeptic or Cocoa Chocolate Powder.
GUARANTEED PURE SOLUABLE COCOA OF THE FINEST QUALITY, WITHOUT SUGAR OR
ADMIXT U RE.
The Faculty pronounce it the “most nutritious, perfectly digestible beverage for Breakfast
Luncheon, or Supper and invaluable for Invalids and Young Children.
Being absolutely “ all Cocoa,” with the excess of fat extracted, is four times the strength of prepara-
tions thickened yet weakened with arrowroot, starch, &c., and in reality cheaper than such
mixtures, a teasp jonful to a breakfast cup costing less than one halfpenny.
COCOATINA is the best Cocoa for India and the Colonies, keeping for years in all climates, being in
a concentrated form. Made instantaneously with boiling wat~r, and palatable without mi'k.
Celebrated for remarkable sustaining Properties. Specially adapted for early Break-
fasts. Adopted as a Medical Comfort in the Iloyal Navy.
Retailed by Chemists, Grocers, &c., in Air-tight Tins, at is. 6 d., 3s, ss. 6<t., &c.
Wholesale by the SolB Proprietors,
SCHWHIZES. & CO., 10 ADASS-STKEBT, STRAND, W.C., LONDON,
AND ALL WHOLESALE HOUSES.
Importer of Wines and Spirits,
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just completed extensive additions
to his WHOLESALE and RETAIL BOTTLE DEPVRTMEN which is now replete with
a well-assorted stock of the Best Brands of Wines and Spirits, personally selected
by the proprietor.
He can therefore confidently recommend the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, hopes to
merit the patronage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
ENGLISH ALES and STOUT, OF ALL BRANDB, Is. EACH PER QUART.
THE FINEST BRANDS of WHISKIES, BRANDIES, PORTS, SHERRIES, CLARETS, and CHAM-
PAGNES, at the Lowest Prioes obtainable in Sydney.
A trial will convince you. Special Prices for Cases of the above.
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, all returns being
allowed for. Casts of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at the Railway
Station or any wharf in the city, or any country station, Free of Charge.
P. R. Larkin wishes to oall y our attention to his famous JE3 Cases, containing the following:
3 Bottles BRANDY 3 Bottles WHISKY 7 Bottles LOWNDES’ RUM
1 Bottle JAMAICA RUM 1 Bottle WOLFE’S SCHNAPPB 1 Bottle OLD TOM
1 Bottle PORT WINE 1 Bottle SHERRY W<NE
TOTAL —10.
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have
given perfeot satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, please make Post Office
rders payable at the Haymarket Post Office.
Kindly Note the Address—
P, R. LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail Wine & Spirit Merchant & Importer,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL, George and Gipps Streets, HaymabkbT, Sydney.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 773 and 730 George-street, Syduey.
McLEAN BROS. RIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
4
O
Co
o
<0
6
IRONMONGERS
5
MR
c*
H/
c>
3
REG?
<fc
b
SPECIALITIES i ' i
Dam’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint,
Aibo Carbon Light
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, 3 CUTLERY, TOOLS.
Gas Caaking Staves Leemis Fletcher’s, Jeans and Walker’s.
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &C., &C.
J. MURPHY S
Central Loan and Discount
Offices,
CORNER OF KENT & LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite George-street.
Mute; Lent at the Lowest Rate of Interest
in this City.
Loans from Is. to .£lOOO, at lOd. in the £
, v per Month.
' Loans on Gold and Silver Jewellery, Clothing, and
every description of Portable Property, granted
at Bates never before attempted in this Colony.
’American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murphy’s Central Loan and Dip-
count Offices, corner of Kent and Liverpool streets
opposite George-street.
GOMMERGIAL HOTEL,
MITTAaONGk
EHpst-elass Accommodation for Commercials
PETER MURPHY, Proprietor.
f, i flood Table and ItfawaaMo Temit
GUINNESS’ EXTEA STOUT.
FIKST
QUALITY.
BA.SB’ PALE ALE.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES :
W. BALCHIN, JOHNSTON & CO.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-st, Sydney
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION,
LONDON,
Special AppQiatment.
■ITS, hhuibS| ail It,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOOK. G. 0. CHALMERS. S. G. WATKINS-)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
, and mi
Importers of rwiNBK?
BTBAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS* TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD- WORKING MALh® s
RAILWAY AND OTHER CONTRACTORS' PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMn*
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDKKo
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, Ac.
am
IRON
ilfll
mmm
mm
tinmrn
PLAIN fjja
BRUSH WARE, IPBNCING Wlß*i WOOLPACKB, SHRARIINI* »un-w®' «^StnBP.
MONGER Y, ROLLED H GIRDERS, PORTABLE, fIIKU , and SBMI-FJ XMD'Wm**
and HORIZONTAL BOILERS, STEAM and othei PUMPS, LATHES, j, 0 1JN^
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
SHEET and PERFORATED
BRUSHWARB, FENCING
Mia nuJi'iiUßTAii ttuxijJßMP, aISSM ana nine/ rumro, hkasc
SCREWING, and DRILLING MACHINEB; STEAM HAMMER?, ENGINEERS M
PATENT ROlaiiEO SHAFTING, QUICKSILVER. tjTABLE ■
Sole Agents for FARMER, ROBEY, and BROWN’S CELEBRATED P tJLL* '
ENGINES ; READING IRON WORKS’ AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS and PAX*"
WM. TAYLOR and CO.’S Celebrated OILS and PAINTS.
Wf~ Price Lists and Catalogues rumisbed on application.
ROBERTS,
Head Warehouse -
Iron ani Implement Yard -
Balk Stores -
CO»9
- «* oFolrk”street, ' r ,-
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HAY AND JUJNLHOIJ!i .
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING a-*-
Bfi GRAOEOHURGH
London Ofto*
lid
STAR & GARTER FAMILY
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
HIS Hotel is centrally situated, being dose to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatxf | Deoftn d^
. Superior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. I irst-ciaw*
e most Comfortable and Commodious Private Bar in the city.
THE GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL*
Charlotte-place and George-street.
K. HAIIEY’S
1 DOZEN CASE
OF
ASSORTED
WINES, SPIRITS, and MALT LIQUORS,
DELIVERED ANY PART OP CITY PREE k
Carriage free by Rail or Stpambr,,
Order the ltidz. base fts you p.lbdso fr'oirh the list of
IbW jorichs As under, viz. :
Robbrtson’s Walker or Royal Blend
Scotch Whiskies ... ... Is. per bottle.
Dunville’s Shamrock and Burke’s
English Ales and Stout, best brands Is.
or 11s 6d. per dozen
Port Wine, for connoisseurs and
invalids 6s.
Port Wine and Sherry, from ... 2s.
Best brands Whisky or Brandy
from 20s. per gallon.
£3 CASE ALSO A SPECIALITY.
Marks’s ALe, Porter, And Lager Beer.
Certificate of merit of the first-class and silver medal
awarded at the Calcutta Exhibition, and patronised by his
Excellency the Governor’s household, 6d. per bottle. All
first-class Goods. One trial will prove the fact. Bottle De-
partment of the GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL, Corner’
George-street and Charlotte-place. Orders by post solicited.
Mrs. Hanney attends personally on lady patrons.
DB. BRIGHT'S PHOSFHODYHE
The only Reliable Remedy for Mental aha Physical
Depression, Nervous, Debility, Incapacity for
Study, Loss of Energy Sick Headache, Indigestion,
Female Complaints, Pro-mature Decline, and is a
marvellous medicine for renovating impaired and
broken-down constitutions. It oper»tes on the
Bystem without exciting care or thought Un on the
individual a.-, to the process. It moves the lungs,
liver, l, kidney stomach, and intestines, with
a harmony, vigour yet miidn6ss unparailoled in
medicine, andU; 11 moat powerful blood purifier
of the present day Bold by ail chemists.
* <rotll«_HT. T . TrWT RttO«
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
iC o c o A
c4ec
40-444
gsdfd
MACHINERY:
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE STOCKS
WITH ALL
NEWEST DESIGNS
HIGHEST FINISH
\ AT
LOWEST
CR
aH* s
a nu
eN C|N^ S '
lA
HO*"*
UUNOH^
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS, -
ESTIMATED FOR J
fh
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET.
® c TstßE£ t -
-22, KINO S’ 11
IFiEE
PBEBCBIg
the
- ,s „oP y
be found in
LIFE,” for the speedy cure ox &;C> A
Lost Manhood, »es{s«ndency> " 6 e^ d ’
this book will be sent post Ire ’
penny stamps. Address—
S. WARD & CO -’cf-
m?s?
(if
3* !
3 lVB lssfy2&
fJW
ip* 2
gy:
. ey pool , (50 *0
fSBolS «e»^* P
nefl.


THE
BULLETIN
Vol 4 -No. 166 -Now Sorleo.
SATURDAY, JULY 17, 1886.
Frioi—B4,
The Imperial Canaway.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JULY 17, 1886.
Impbrial Federation, in the near future, will
be the main question of Australasian politic?.
Upon its decision mighty issues depend,
for the future of these colonies will be in-
volved in its adoption or rejection. Aus-
tralians must soon be called upon to decide
whether they will range themselves under
an Imperial banner, or, on the other hand,
lay the foundations of’a lusty Confederation
of the South. Already Imperialism is actively
working to secure these colonies as recruits
for her forces. Such Governors as Lord
Carington and Sir H. B. Loch are the re-
cruiting-sergeants of the Empire; they
appear in a gorgeous Imperial guise calcu-
lated to arouse a hankering for glory attain-
able by active service under the same Sove-
reign ; and the Queen’s shilling in the shape
of Privy Council honours, which are not
titles, and titles such as knighthoods and
C.M.G.-ships, which are not honours, are will-
ingly given to those persons whose sympa-
thies it is deemed necessary to secure. Rose-
bery wires anhysterical “ W ell-done! ” Wales
shakes hands with wealthy Australian tal-
low-smelters, pig-butchers, and whiskey-
sellers; the Queen invites the same distin-
guished visitors to lunch; and an append-
age to royalty, in tho shape ot a prince or
a pensioner, is to come out to open the
Adelaide Exhibition—all for the cause of
Imperialism. There is a conspiracy to seize
Australia as a captive to increase the vainly-
foreshadowed triumphs of a gigantic and
aggressive British Empire. Dazzled by the
glitter of imagined glories, there are many
men in Australia who do not hesitate to
act as traitors to the land they inhabit by
joining in the conspiracy. To this end Mr.
Dalley sent forth a handful of hireling
nigger-butchers ; post-prandial orators act
as frothy special-pleaders for Imperiafism
Jingo editors spread their epileptic frenzy
over leaders remarkable only for bathos and
empty boastings ; Slatterys make ridi-
culous and high-flown orations in the House
to which Abigails give grateful applause—
and Mr. A. P. Can away writes a 49-page
pamphlet on “Our Fathers and our Im-
perial Rights.”
m 9 •
Were it not for the rapidly-increasing im-
portance of the question of Imperial Union,
this brochure by Mr. Cana way would be
sufficiently noticed by a two-line paragraph,
for it contains many grave inaccuracies,
very little of argument, and is indefinite
even beyond the generality of deliverances
on the same subject; but it is the theme,
not its eluoidator, which demands notice.
We must weigh the plaintiff’s case, however
contemptible the utterance of the advcoate
may appear. The pamphlet is divided in
accordance with its title, and may be most
easily treated in the same’ manner. Mr.
Canaway takes much trouble in discuss-
ing the genealogy of Britons to prove that
the inhabitants of the United Kingdom,
whom he calls “Inner British,” are of the
same speech and descent, whether residing in
England, Ireland, or Scotland. This is either
a commonplace fact, or a manifest error,
according to the interpretation which it is
made to bear. If this means that tne 'same
elements are to be traoed in each pro-
vince, the statement is true enough,
but of no tangible importance; if, how-
ever, it be taken to indicate that
the elements are present in anything
like corresponding proportions, evident and
well-known facts array themselves in oppo-
sition to the assumption. Yet this argu-
ment, worthless as it must bs in either
case, is held to justify the abolition of the
Irish Parliament. “The Union,” says our
author, “was in fine carried and was ac-
cepted because seasonably expressive of the
high political truth of the unity of the
British people; and the truth then so
solemnly put on record cannot now by any
vulgar (!) expedients of agitation be brought
into serious dispute.” There is a fine old
Tory flavour about this blast. It matters not
that the truth was put on record by bribery,
corruption, treachery, and trickery of the
grossest kind. Truth, according to Tory
ideas, is never more effective than when
driven in with the bayonet, or gilded with a
bribe; and it is gratifying to know that this
corrupt union cannot be brought into “ seri-
ous dispute ” by the “ vulgah ” agitation of
a Gladstone. Such being the case, we
THE LATE REV. JAMES FULLERTON, LL.B.
must believe that the general election, as
well as all the reported debates in the House
of Commons over the Home Rule Bill, did
not really occur at all. They are mere
myths of a sensation-mongering Press.
* * *
Besides decreeing that Home Rule cannot
be granted to Ireland because its people are
the same by speech and descent as the other
British, Mr. Canaway extends his argument
to this Continent and endeavours to make it
prove the necessity of our Imperial Union
with the other parts of the Empire. “The
Australian,” he says, “is the Briton
thoroughbred.” A mind inclined to levity
might naturally enquire here whether a
tinge of the, Mongolian blood, a dash of the
Teutonic strain, and a soupcon of the French
is necessary to the creation of a “Briton
thoroughbred,” but we are not now con-
cerned with such unimportant points. We
do not venture to remind Mr. Canaway
that British blood has in the mass
been much mixed on this continent. It is
easier to grant his premises and to investi-
gate the extraordinary conclusion he obtains
therefrom, which is thus stated:—“The
most pregnant incident of a people’s oneness
is its competency to be politically united
into one State, a thing achieved, as afore-
said, by the Germans and Italians. There-
fore the British people is, in theory, oapable
of Union into one State.” The “Union”
instanced is worthy of the argument. The
Italians and Germans never were one people
in any sense of the word. They differed in
descent, speech, interests, habits, customs,
and feature, and were never politically
united at any period of their history. They
were certainly at one time nominally under
one tyrant, whioh may be the high Tory idea
of political union, but for all practical pur-
poses were still separate nations. The one
link which bound them was oppression by the
stronger nation. When the weaker people
were enabled to shake off the yoke they
gladly did so, although at a heavy cost,
“ The accession of Konrad,” says an ency-
clopaedic writer, “ was the signal for various
tumultous risings of the Italians against
their German rulers, who had become the
object of general detestation.” This refers
to that sanctifkd political union .tie Ger-
mans and Italians so eloquently described
by our gifted Imperialist, and eulogised in-
ferentially as a model for Australians. Yet
the instance is fairly suitable for applioa-
tion to the present subject. The oneness of
the Biitish and ourselve* which really does
not exist, would cause, by its absence, simi»
lar detestation if such a political union were
formed. Queen Victobia would, like
Otho 1., be the monarch ruling over the
two peoples, and the weaker nation, Aus-
tralia, would meekly and loyally endure
the yoke of Imperial oppression—until we
were able to throw it off.
* * a
Dazzled by supposed glories of ancestry
always a source of boastful pride to a l*ory,
Mr. CanaWay refuses to admit any other
reason for political union, and asserts union
to be absolutely necessary to those, where-
ever situate, who use the same speech and
are of the same desoent. Our contention la
directly opposed to these assumptions. We
hold community of interest and aim to bd
the one indispensable condition of political
union. If, for instance, all Sootohmen were
Radicals, all Irishmen Liberals, and all En-
glishmen Tories, separation or conquest
would be the certain result. Similarly a dose
union of England and Australia would prd-
duce, sooner or later, disastrous consequences.
Both in aim and interest Australians differ
from inhabitants of the United Kingdom.
In these Colonies there are a very large
number—a very large proportion, even—of
Republicans; besides these, many of the best
citizens have oome out, or their fathers have
come out to escape the keen miseries of star-
vation ; and a large proportion have emis
grated to escape the class tyranny of older
lands. How would any of these per-
sons, nearly all of whom have gained
prosperity and influence beneath a freer
sky, meet any attempt to again fasten Upon
them the rule which they abhor ? It Is not
necessarily the Australian natives who arb
most truly patriotic to their Australian
liberties. Many Englishmen Who have only
recently arrived would be amdng the fore-
most to protest against any infringement
of the liberties they now enjoy by means
of any system of Imperial Union. He is the
truest Australian who loves Australian privi-
leges best. On these grounds Thb Bulletin
denounced that monument of political snob-
bery, the “ Australian Natives’ Association.’*
Australians [approve themselves, suoh by
their devotion to our own national liberties
and rights. The resident of any of these
colonies whose heart is set upon that Egyp-
tian flesh-pot—lmperial glory—is a foreigner
and a traitor, although he may be a native
of the soil. No possible incident of union
could bring our interest-born national
thoughts into harmony with those prevail-
ing in England; and no advantage gained
could in any way atone for the loss of rights
of [legislation and liberties assured under
our respective Parliaments. Australian
progress will not submit to be bound by the
chains of an alien Toryism. Colonial Con-
servatives are more pliant and progressive
than: English] Radicals ; Colonial Councils,
despite all their vices, more Liberal than
the English Commons; to yoke the two
nations would be to couple the horse and
the ox in the same team. Each ham-
pering the operations, and, ohaflng at the
methods of the other, would endure the
companionship only so loDg as the tackling
was strong enough to hold them together
* * *
Imperialists of the Cana way type do not
seem to consider, and will not deign to dis-
cuss, the solid sacrifices Australia must make
in order to obtain this wreath of Imperial
glory. Political union of the whole Empire
would necessitate, in the first place, assimi-
lation of tariffs, and this alone is an almost
prohibitive requirement. If Victoria has to
choose between Protection and Imperial
union, she will almost certainly retain the
former; and when the inhabitants of any
of the Colonies have to elect between Home
and Foreign Rule, they will, upon being


confronted with the undisguised alterna-
tives, unhesitatingly deoline to sell their
existing freedom. We have once been eman-
cipated from Downing-street bondage. Our
liberty is too dear to be now bartered away at
the bidding Of Imperial Jingoes. Britain hav-
ing once released us, can never again bind us
with the old ohains. it is not at present neces-
sary that Australia should win absolute in.
dependence, but it Is impossible that this
Continent can again be brought into sub-
jection. “ Our Imperial Rights,” according
to the seoond portion of Mr. Canaway’s
pamphlet, would seem to oonsist chiefly of a
right, which we may assert at our pleasure,
of taking part in old-world squabbles and
obtaining glory thereby. Such “ rights,” of
inestimable value from a Tory point of view,
possess no oharms for those who admire the
nobler triumphs of peace, the victories in
the work of national redemption. After
carefully reading that part of Mr. Cana-
way’s book dealing, in magniloquent but
distressingly vague descriptions, with these
“ Imperial Rights,” we Are still inclined to
believe that, measured by his description,
they are not worth as much as would have
purchased a mid-day meal for the Soudan
goat.
•• / *
America, according to this author, is a
fearful example which Australia would do
well to avoid. “ Th~ niggardliness of
Nature” he says, “forbids Australia to
follow the United States. If she follows
their pulioy (which God avert!) (sic), she
cannot have their growth; and if she ambi-
tions (sic) an equal growth, she must not
follow their policy.” And this is his idea of
the Americans:—
“At the beginning of their national life, and in
pursuance of their policy, they abdicated the
rights of British tneD, and slighted the bond of
descent and speech: they took up with the rights
of man—LHow wrong I—Ed. B]—and relied on the
bond of material interest. The policy has still its
last word to say; the resources and area of the
territory have hitherto sufficed for all the popula-
tion ; the hour of strain and distress has yet to
corqe. But even now (if facts and authorities
sp>”aK±rue) there is such a want of aim and aspira-
tion pervading their national life as denies to the
Americans the true exaltation of greatness. If
imagination were here in place, one might com-
pare them to some disorbed star which, blazing and
splendidly refulgent though it gleam, yet, having
onoe, m disdain of the slow and majestic wheeling
of its native-appointed system, shot out of it to
take the trackless void, now circles through the
firmament, all restless and unpurposed, joyless and
alone.”
This, as a sample of Imperial twaddle, is
really very flue. There is also a haughty
disregard of realities about it, together
with a fide touch of romance, which is cal-
culated to enhanoe the cause of Imperialists
very considerably. But even with these
beauties Mr. Can away is to be commended
for having—possibly from sheer thoughtless-
ness-loaded his soaring fanoies with just a
few grains of truth. It is true, for instance,
that America took up with the rights of
man—rights which England’s! ruling classes
have continuously outraged; it is true,
also, that Amerioa’s hour of strain and dis-
tress has yet to oome, while England’s
period of misery has already spread itself
over a full oentury; and it is also a fact
that the American star is “blazing and
splendidly refulgent,” while that of Eng-
land is rapidly and surely declining. But,
admitting these truths, we* take strong ex-
ception to the remainder of the passage.
The inference which Mr. Canaway wishes
us to draw is that the exaltation of national
greatness ca,n only be achieved by drawing
inspiration from Imperial Britain. This is
Toryism in excelsis. We believe that Eng-
land has aohieved a large measure of great-
ness, hut to assert that she has a divine
monopoly of that oommodity is to contra-
dict all the faots of the world’s history.
* * *
t Mr. Canaway is an M.A. of Oxford, he
may, therefore, be supposed to know some-
thing of England, but his knowledge of
Australia seems to oonsist mainly of miscon-
ceptions. Of this Continent he writes :
“ She is without water. Nature has left heT dry
and unrefreshed -a sun-struck soil too drouth y for
the farmer s husbandry. . . . Her Govern-
ments have given railways (nine-tenths built with
borrowed eapital), but the limit of public credit
looms visible ahead, and the oountry remains un-
watered as before and pastoral perforoe. A
pastoral population must be scattered, therefore
small, and therefore needing few to manufacture
for it. Industrial pursuits for the mass of the
population are not seriously to be yet thought of
in Australia; climate apart, its home market must
readily be glutted, and a foreign market cannot
be found. The only question is grass or oorn,
sheep or men; and because sheep cannot uphold a
State, Australia’s path of progress is to water.”
We quote this in full, in order to show
what ignorance of the country in which he
lives, a man assisted by his preconceptions
may acquire. Where is there mention here of
the almost untouched mineral deposits of
Australia—what of the huge stores of iron,
coal, gold, tin, copper, and other minerals,
discovered and undiscovered ? Not suited
for the farmer’s husbandry ? How then are
the shiploads of exported wheat obtained ?
TUe whole passage is eloquent of ignorance.
Mr. Canaway unintentionally admits that
he knows nothing of Australia, and every
page of his book snows that he regards Im-
perial glory as the one thing to be desired
by this Australian nation. Thus the mental
forces which he brings to bear upon the
question of Australia’s destiny, are ignor-
ance of Australian natural resources and
condition, aud sentiments and aspirations
alike foreign to this Continent. He is not
an Australian, although, for aught we know,
he may be native-born. Under these cir-
cumstances, his inflated exhortation to Aus-
tralians may be mildly described as an
imoertinence. Ah Chung Fat, the Mongo-
lian, might, with equal propriety, advocate
a union of Australia and Cnina, and mignt,
if he could not find anything better, use all
the arguments of the pamphlet with equal—
certainly not less —effect. As a special-
pleader for Imperialism, Mr. Canaway is
not a sucoess; as a writer for and adviser of
Australians in national matters he must he
accounted a dismal failure.
A Side-Light on the Present British
General Election.
Land Monopoly.—How Long will it Last ?
Wb reprint below an article by Adam Badeau, of
New York, describing; the condition of Scotland,
the most nobility*rid den country in the world.
Mr. Gladstone is reported by reoent cablegrams to
have remarked, in the oourse of a speech delivered
during the late British general election, that
Scotland and Ireland had done their duty and had
stood by him, for they had learnt their lesson ; it
was now for England slowly and painfully to
learn hers. With the instruction in national
misery suggestively sketohed in this article, it
seems improbable that Scotland will take long in
attaining the standard of political education ne-
cessary for the emancipation of her pauper mil-
lions. Old traditions and superstitions have long
availed to enslave those who should be free, but
it is certain that oppression will not be able now
for long to postpone the advance of freedom. The
following, according to Badeau, is the condition of
the masses under the rule of the British arls-
tocraoy:—
“ Scotland is the paradise of the peers. The
county of Sutherland contains 1,299,253 aores, of
which the Duke of Sutherland owns 1,176,343. The
population of the countv is 34,317 souls. Six other
potentates hold over 100,00(1 acres among them,
leaving exactly 5295 acres for the remaining 24,310
inhabitants. There are, however, only 85 of these
with more than an acre apiece.
“ Among the other great proprietors in Scotland
are the Duchess of Sutherland, who owns an estate
of 149,000 acres in her own right, and the Earl of
Fife, who has one of 140,000, another of 72,000; and
another of 40 GOO. The Duke of Richmond has one
of 155,000, and another of 69.000; the Earl of Sea-
field (the head of the Grants), one of 93,000, one of
48,000, and one of 16,000; the Earl of Breadalbane
owns 193,000 and 179,000 acres; the Duke of Hamil-
ton. 102,000 and 45 000; the Duke of Buccleugb,
253,000, 104,000, and 60,000. The Duke of Argyll is
comparatively poor; he Owns only 168,000 aores,
while the Queen’s estate of Balmoral is a modest
little property of 25,000 acres. In Inverness-shire
20 men own 2,000,000 aores among them, and in
Aberdeenshire 23 ‘lords and gentlemen ’ own more
than half the county, though the population is
244,000. The greater part of all this territory is
devoted to the sports of the aristocracy, for whom
Sootland is only one great playground.
“ Three-fourths of these noble landlords inherit
their estates either from grasping robbers of the
Norman ‘.type or Cromwellian conquest, or from
women who sold their beauty and their virtue to
kings or panders, or from politicians of the stamp
of Aaron Burr or Alderman Jaehne. Walpole and
Pitt were the most lavish distributors of coronets
England ever had, and one of these notoriously
bought with money and titles the very Irish
Union which is certain soon to be dissolved, while
the other was the author of the famous maxim in
English politics; ‘ Every man has bis price.’
“ The great landowners themselves seldom cul-
tivate more than a little piece of soil, sufficient for
the requirements of a single establishment. The
arable and pasture land of the k ngdom is let
out to 1,160,000 tenant farmers, 70 per cent, of
whom hold less than 50 acres each, 12 per cent,
between 50 and 100 acres, and only 18 per cent,
more than 100 acres apiece. In all the kingdom
only 600 farms exceed 1000 acres in extent. Many
of the farmers are little better off than their own
labourers, but in the aggregate they employ a
capital of £400,000,000. With the labourers they
constitute one-tenth of the working population of
the country.
" The labourers have no capital but the furniture
of their dwellings, unless the strength of their
bodies and the hard experience of toil may be*
considered capital. Their wages are insufficient to
maintain them, and the consequence is there are
a million of paupers to be supported by the State.
They have, of oourse, no independence, but are
in reality serfs of the soil. They rarely leave the
parish in which they were born; until recently, if
they did so, they forfeited the right to relief
when destitute, or to the almshouse, which every
peasant looks to as the end of his iabourious life.
They never save; they have insufficient food; in
many parts of the country their stature is dwarfish,
their gait slow and sluggish, like their minds.
They have no education; theirjonly pleasure is
drink. Above all, they have no possibility of bet-
tering themselves. But it is upon their poverty,
degradation, and misery, that the grandeur and
luxury of the aristocracy are founded. One is the
direct cause of the other.
In ',lBBO, the average wages of the agricultural
labourer, the man who worked the two thousand
million aores of land, and produced the three hun-
dred and thirty millions of revenue, was 14s. a
week. Out of this he had to pay his rent to the
earl or the duke, which was 2s. Bread was Hi. a
pound, meat L9l, and butter Is. 81. So his 2s. a
day would not buy many pounds of meat or
butter, if the family was large. For there were
shoes to be got for all, clothes, fuel, lights as well
as food, all out of 14s. a week, and in sight of the
castle of my lord, who was rich solely because the
hind was poor.
“ The ordinary cottage of the English labourer
has but two rooms, and when the married man has
a family of nearly or quite grown sons and
daughters they often all sleep in one room, and
not unfrequentiy in the same bed. The great
majority of cottages are wretohedly built, often
on ivery unhealthy sites, miserably small, very
low, badly drained, and they scarcely ever have a
cellar or a space under the roof above the room on
the lower floor. They are fit abodes for a pea-
santry pauperised and demoralised by the utter
helplessness of their condition.
“ The first summer that I spent in England I
visited two splendid mansions in the south whose
owners were earls. One of these showed me a
hail in his castle that was restored in the time of
Henry V., and the other was of the family of that
Count Robert of Paris who sat for awhile on the
throne of Constantinople. Both of these nobles
were personally estimable, and even religious
men, who undoubtedly supposed they were doing
their duty in that state of life to which it had
pleased God to call them. I knew of exalted and
beautiful traits in the character of each that
would extort the admiration of honourable men
everywhere.
“ While I was visiting them, I attended the
meetings of the British Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science, held in a neighbouring
town. Large parties went in each day from the
palatial and luxurious abodes of the nobility, to be
present at the sessions, at which the earl presided,
and nearly a .'score of high-placed proprietors at-
tended what interested me most of all, the sittings
of the Department of Political and Social
Economy. The magnates were engaged for
several days discussing the condition of the Eng-
lish poor. I heard viscounts and baronets and
bishops and earls lamenting the misery and de-
pravity, the poverty and low wages of the
wretches who lived on their estates. I heard them
admit that in their part of the country a shilling a
day was often the wages of a strong, healthy man,
who had a wife and six or seven children to sup
port, out of which, 1 heard them say, at least a
snilling a week was deducted for rent. I heard
that whole families occupied a single bedroom, I
heard of the ignorance and stolidity often the
brutality, of the English peasants, of whom there
are several millions.
‘•Not ail are in this extreme condition, but all
are degraded and demoralised ; and I have heard
English noblemen declare that, as a class, they are
more brutish—that was the word—than any other
peasantry in the world. The worst things I have
told are neither exceptional nor rare. I went
back to' the stately halls, where 40 or 50 guests
were feasted each night off of silver, and where
the very servants were ten times better fed and
clad and housed than the best of the lower class
outside ; where the poor crowded around the
charitable kitchen g ate, literally glad to feed on
the qpumbs that fell from the rich man’s table ; ,
and I wondered what would be the end—and how
long it would be deferred—of the aristocracy of
England 1 ”
How long will it last? It will last until the
despised and oppressed labourers learn that they
have rights, and power to enforce them. Then
the end will come perhaps in fire and blood, per-
haps by radical Parliamentary reform—and tnen
the freed British serf will wonder why he endured
bondage so long, and patiently.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Blockheads’ Blockade.
Anything more senseless or disgraceful to the
responsible parties than the stonewalling last week
in the New South Wales Assembly cannot be found
upon the past records of that nuver too dignified
Assembly. The degrading struggle began without
reason, continued without decency, culminated in
rowdyism, and concluded in cant. From first to
last the proceedings were destitute of anything
that can be applauded. The course of conduct
varied only from bad to outrageous, from vile to
viler still. Upon the Opposition the odium of the
affair must be cast. Their aim was hopeless from
the first ; they could not hope to prevail,
and endurance in obstruction only betrayed
their malignity. The desperation of the strug-
gle, and the bitterness with which it was
carried on, cannot be accounted for by any of the
stated grounds of obstruction. No question of
principle was involved, the liberties of the people
were not In any way endangered, nor was the
legislation proposed, such as to evoke any con-
siderable interest on the part of the public. As a
matter of fact, the question, outside the House
and the daily newspaper offices, is looked upon
with Indifference by the very large majority of
those whom its decision will affect, and members
are fully aware of this fact. Had the Issue been
comprised in the question of ad valorem dutieß
alone, the debate might have been finished
within 13 hours. But bigotry brought Its weight
to bear upon the question. Orangemen have long
viewed with impotent anger the Catholio represen-
tation In the Cabinet. They burned with silent
hate when the ooooanut-oil contingent were
baulked in their New Hebrides scheme by the
moderate action of Sir Patrick Jennings, and
they hoped to secure a revenge for that rebuff by
getting the Freetraders to join with them in a
wild attempt at humiliating a Government
which they were utterly unable to defeat.
The Kiama Ghost has been again raised, the
Yellow Dog has howled with all his vicious energy,
but the degradation of the House generally has
been the only result. With the approach of the
13ch of July, the bigots determined to distinguish
themselves somehow. The red-rag of Catholicism
was on the Treasury Benches, and at it the Orange
Bull charged, but only to retire with broken horns
and bleeding face. If Sir Patrick Jennings had
ever within our knowledge,during his Premiership,
showed that his religion Interfered with his duty
to the country, we would unhesitatingly Impeach
him of the political crime. But we know of no sin
of this nature, and, therefore, congratulate him
upon his victory of last week, and only regret
that he showed so little of grace In its accomplish-
ment. His excuse must be that, insulted by the
insolence of his opponents, he was moved to assert
his victory more strongly than he would other-
wise have done.
" Bats!”
“ The worst rogue makes the holiest saint,” sod
similarly the fiercest of all Freetraders Is the
renegade Protectionist, There was a time—and
not so very long ago, either—when the Sydney
Daily Telegraph whined piteously for protec-
tion of native Industries, but slnoe It forsook that
policy no journal has more hysterically howled for
Freetrade. From the tenor and tone of its leaders,
and the venom with which It attacks all who
favour the proposed Increases of the New Sou th
Wales Custom Duties, it would seem that the
D.T. regards consistent Freetrade as the one
essential of National salvation. No epithets
are too abusive for those who favour t T ae
ad valorem duties, and no sin possible *£o* those
who delay their Imposition. Even Sir'HENitY
Parkes, who, but a short time back was freely
anathematised, has worked out his political r e-
demption in the eyes of this frenzlgd dally; and
even poor littl9 Abigail longer despised
and abused. The Daily Teleg-ra*p h, which “ ro-
grets,” too, that it “has hitherto under-rated” Jaw-
bone Neild; is the only Sydney paper which' bis
ventured to disgrace itself by applauding ttoe
stupid, aimless, and brutal exhibition of Pa r-
liamentary larriklnism of 'last week, and th«e
members of the Opposition, who were responsible
; for it. If any principle were involved, we might
be able to discover a reason for this editorial
fury, but it Is impossible to pretend that
this Is the Protection is a questisn
not of principle, but of circumstance. We have
supported Protection because it is calculated,
when judiciously applied, to give an impetus to the
progress of the country; if, however, the circum-
stances of New South Wales were such as to
render Freetrade the more beneficial policy, we
would advocate its adoption without doing .vio-
lence to any guiding principle of national politics.
But even supposing that there were a principle
involved, it has been already affirmed by the Im-
position of duties which the Telegraph appar-
ently desires to bo maintained. Sugar-growers are
amply protected under the existing tariff, so are
brewers, baeon-curers, kerosene-oil distillers,
and-thousands of other operatives. If Sydney
were an absolutely free port there might be some
sense in the fury 'of the renegade D.T., but the
duties now sought.to only add slightly
to the burden of taxation already, borne, by the
consumer, aud give the manufacturer a little
more encouragement thin he has recently re-
ceived. To object to the new duties, while
favouring the retention of those already collected*
and stating the ohjection'to be one of “ principle,’
is the baldest inconsistency. And if it be hypo-
critically answered that the present dutiea are only
incidentally protective, and were imposed for
revenue purposes, the evident reply is the
same qualities adhere to the new schedules, over
which so much fuss is being made. Some oftha
proposed tolls will not give the slightest en-
couragement to local industries. This is free y
admitted. Would the D.T., then support such
and oppose only those which oonfera benefit upon
manufacturers and their hands ? To do so would
be more reasonable than to join them all together In
one common condemnation. To say that the
country has not had a chance of deolding this ques-
tion, and Is opposed to ad valorem duties, is an airy
item of romance. At last election 37 more or less
pronounced Protectionists were returned, and as
many more asserted themselves favourable to the
encouragement of local Industries. And it is cer-
tain that every elector wishes to see the debts of
the country paid. After muoh consideration of
the question, we cannot discover why the Tele-
graph should go “ on the rampage ” with suoh
vehement energy. The " blockheads’ blockade ”
we account for by the operation of blind bigotry
and fanatioal fury. Surely the Telegraph has
not also allied Itself with the “Kiama Ghost ”
party ?
+
Parkes and the Yellow Pup.
The Orangemen of New South Wales must be
about the meanest and most servile'set of men that
ever owned hearts wherewith to hate. They
raised Sir Henry Parkes up a few months ago
from the very dust, and made him to be a leader
of their party In the Assembly. Grateful for the
favour, he immediately retorted by dragging the
party through the mud of humiliation, publioly
approving of Home Rule, which the Orangemen
abhor, and was only prevented from attending
the meeting commending Gladstone’s policy, by
the intervention of Divine Providence, assisted, as
it is said, by Frawncis Habigle. Then, when
the Revs. Madgwick, Barnier, FRac!kleton )
Barry, Oram, and other fervent firebrands held
their annual meeting for the promotion of sec-
tarian hatred, he lounged In with a nonchalant
air, and when called upon to speak, professed
ignorance of the aims of Orangemen, refused to
become one of them, and showed his utter oon-
tempt for the whole proceedings by Insolent chaff
and sarcasm hidden only by the thinnest of veils;
and yet they will continue to support him. He
has kicked the Yellow Pup; he has thrown Home
Rule stones at it; he is asked to acknowledge his
ownership of it, and he flatly declines. Poverty-
stricken for want of power, it Is afflicted with the
mange of public contempt, and, although the ap-
proving words of Parkes would act as an oint-
ment to remove the affliction, Parkes refuses to
apply that remedy. He will not even allow
It [to be registered in his name, so for want
of a license it sneaks through the town
liable at any time to be “ run in ” by the police of
public opinion, and boiled down in the cauldron
of contumely. Yet, with all this, PaAKes does not
refuse to sustain his political importance by trea-
suring up the bones, in the Bhape of the votes of
Foster, NeilD, and Co., whleh the despised
Yellow Pup is able to steal. From a careful re-
view of the position of both parties, we are
inclined to consider that the dog is adapted to the
master, and the master a suitable owner for the
dog. They have many points in common, and In
their present attitudes are about equally worthy
of admiration, as far as political conduct is con-
cerned.
♦—
Cui Bono?
Whether the persons indicted for alleged frauds
in oonneotion with the railways of New South
Wales are guilty or not, Is relatively a small ques-
tion beside that which conoerns the Innooence or
otherwise of Government offiolals who permitted
the Department to remain at the mercy of con-
signors and carriers of goods. It has been stated,
without contradiction so far, that there has never
been any check upon the weights of goods, suoh as
wool, forwarded from country stations. The
weight and freight were left, It Is said, to the
person loading the bales or parcels. Suoh being
the ease, It falls upon the officials to explain
who was the fool @r knave who knowingly per-
mitted such a state of things to continue. It may
be that the Inferior clerks were responsible, or
the blame may even rest with high offiolals.
Knowing that such opportunities for fraud
existed, the public will'believe that frauds were
at one time or another consummated. Not, per-
haps, by the parties now accused, who may all be
Innocent as the day, but certainly by some per-
sons. And believing that, the enquiry will be,
“Cuibono? To whom were these universal con-
fidence arrangements on the railway, a profitable
thing ? ”
NOTICE.
Thb Rates of Subscription to “The Bulletin"
are as follows
One year 34/- In advance
Half year 12/6 „
Quarter 6/6 „ „
Cheques, Drafts, and P.O. Orders, must be made
payable to J. M. HARDING. Managing Director (
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
Postage-stamps of any Australian colony ac-
cepted for amounts under £l.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
The Bulletin win attend to all communications
of whatever character from near or distant cor-
respondents. The aim of the paper is to bring to
light the g<sbd things of all sorts.
The'Editor will gladly coEsider suggestions for
.'illustrations, and will carefully read, and acknow
lego in the correspondence column, all contribu-
tions submitted—whether in the form of politics
social, or other articles, verse, short tales or
sketches*, paragraphs, letters, or newspaper-clip-
pings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
Correspondents will please write on one side of
their paper only, and in forwarding newspapers,
will be good enough to mark the portions to which
they invite attention.
The Eulletin does not necessarily undertake any
liability in respect to MB.,&c„ forwarded. Butthe
Eli tor will, as,a matter of courtesy, send back all
ur suitable contributions which are in the first
place accompanied by a properly-addressed and
sufficiently-stamped envelope.
The Bulletin will be glad to publish properly-
thenticated social items.


THE PRINCE OF WALES.
A surviving member of the 'Press— to whose presence
in the gallery, during the late Parliamentary riots, “ at-
tention ” was called—thinks the “ attention ” of the
Sergeant at Arms was anything but delicate,
“So far as I am personally concerned,” said Mr. Darley in
the course of debate on the Cremation Bill, “ It matters little
what becomes of my body after I am dead.”
HE MAY VISIT AUSTRALIA I
(OUR SPECIAL MESSAGE.) ™
London, Thursday.—The efforts to
induce tlie Prince of Wales to visit
Australia have not yet ceased. Several
private representations have been made
to his Royal Highness to induce him to
make the tour; but it has been ascer-
tained that it is impossible for him to
be absent from London during the sea-
son, so that he could not he in Adelaide
to open the Jubilee Exliibition next
year.
It is remotely possible, however, that
he may, if necessary arrangements can
he made, embark for Australia in the
autumn of 1887.
The Mayor is going to have some
of the best dressed people, who at-
tend his forthcoming ball, photo-
graphed, and send an album contain-
ing their likenesses to Her Majesty
the Queen.
London,: Friday.—The formal investi-
ture of the order 3 of St. Michael and
St. George aDd others recently oonterred
on ft number of distinguished colonists
is to tfek® place at Osborne shortly in
the presence of her Maiesty the Queen.
That is just as soon
as the Brummagem
brass founders iwho
have been working
day and night
lately) can turn
the “ orders ” out.
Doubtless recent copies of “Hansard” had A
something to do with the change in /\
H.R.H.’s plans. He is ,
known to be fond of ex- 1 / /
citement. 11 |/ y
THE PUBLIC LIBRARY, s' /
A visit to the Free Public Library will convince any
reasoning being that the new wing will not be finished
too soon. On'each'of the tables piles of hats may be
seen, while numbers of readers, unable apparently to
find any other places to hang up their hats except on
the ground, keep them on their heads. The most that
can be done by any ordinary individual is to take a book
from the shelves, squeeze himself into a comer and be
satisfied.
- .. ' -i
The Geographical Society Intend to explore
the Antarctic regions. What they expect to find
there other than polar bears, seals, and icebergs,
nobody seems to know.
Illustrated Incidents.


Personal
Items
They are now trying to make out in Ade-
laide that the Imprisoned saint, Crooks, is insane.
The Town and Count by Journal loses
the servioes of Mr. Angus Mackay at the end of
this month.
At St. Kilda, Melb., last week, a lady
named Hogg marrietrone Richard Onyons. From
Hogg to Onyons 1
Only one policeman in Australia wears an
eyeglass while on duty. He has charge of the
Melbourne gaol-van.
Mr. Julien Deoourt, Consul for France at
Sydney, who died last Sunday from brain-paralysis,
was a nephew of Guizot, the historian.
The Comte de Paris says that “ when the
decisive hour comes he will.be ready.” Princes
always are when there is a chance of stealing
something.
When Isidor Lissner, M L. A. for Charters
Towers, was asked at a reoent meeting why he had
supported MTlwraith, he replied, “Because I
loved the man.”
“ Not a Ministry has ruled over Victoria
during the last 10 years which has not contained
at least one (in most cases more) notorious adul-
terer in its ranks.”—Globe.
Mr. Berner, oharged with some small
N.B.W. railway-fund embezzlements, is so unfor-
tunate as to have only one hand. Other railway
manipulators have two hands each, and so are
better able to scoop.
Mr. Abbott asks how many cubio feet of
air are allowed to reporters in the N.S.W. Assem-
bly. Mr. Abbott likes the pressmen. A week or
so ago he wanted to know how many cubic inches
of whisky had been sent up to them.
People have been wondering why Mr. A.
G. Taylor was not to the fore in the recent brawls
in the N.S.W. Parliament. The celebrated Mudgee
Taylor, who is now a strong Protectionist, is better
engaged. He is writing a new work on Consti-
tutional Law.
Mr. Joseph Abbott, M.L.A., has issued a
libel-writ against the Gunnedah (N.S.W.) Adver-
tiser The poor editor-man says he doesn t know
what it’s for. We suppose he has been applying to
Joseph some opprobrious epithet—calling him a
lawyer, perhaps.
Montagu Williams, the eminent English
barrister, has successfully undergone, at Berlin,
an operation for which he pays 1000 guineas. As
the other eminent lawyer—Mr. John Williams, of
Sydney—once remarked, “Such fees are generally
paid by the executors.”
“ Lord Oarington visited Moss Vale on
Friday, and camped in the bush at night,” reports
the Burrowa Times. We have since heard from
another source that it is intended to cut out the
tuft of grass he sat on during the silent watohes,
and reverentially present it to the Museum.
Let whoso will upon the primrose doat,
It is a flower insipid—none of ours—
It smells no sweeter stuck in Bevill’s coat,
Whose insipidity doth match the flower’s;
But whose proportions, truly far from meagre,
Scarce suit the Oscar Wildish Primrose Leaguer.
Father Damen, the apostle to the lepers,
who are exiled at Molonai, one of the Sandwioh
Islands, has at last contracted the disease. For
years he has laboured among these outcasts, re-
nouncing all worldly possessions for their sake,
and now is called upon to sacrifice life itself. No
nobler name than that of this Roman Catholio
priest is on the roll of heroes.
We draw a favorable inference from the
fact that “ Our Boys” were cavalierly treated at
the Grand Hotel, London. On returning from
their Nottingham trip, the manager of the
"Grand" gave the Australian Elevem the cold-
shoulder, and said he was full up in the meantime.
Swelling with outraged dignity, Mr. Wardilt con-
ducted his precious charges to their old home at
the Tavistock. Evidently Soott and 'Company are
keeping commendably sober—hence the trouble.
A councillor of Prahran (Melb.) takes the
cake ” for calm belief in the immensity of his
own little municipal world. At last week’s
council meetiDg this genius shook his addled pate
and deprecated further discussions about the
borough loan, lest they should “ prejudice it upon
the London Stock Exchange.” As a specimen of
inflated foolishness that suggestion would he bad
to beat. Yet the speaker is only a fair represen-
tative of his class—the Prince of Wales' colonial
admirers.
It was lately announced in the papers
that Baron Yon Mueller was to retire from the
Victorian public service in consequence of his
having reached the age of 60. We are, however,
now glad to hear that the end of the accomplished
Baron’s official career has not yet come, and that
he will be allowed by the authorities to proceed
with his work from year to year while he remains
fit to do so. That he may long continue in harness
Is the wish of thousands of scientific friends scat-
tered all over the world.
j. Hingston (“ J.H.” of the Argus) was, at
latest dates, blockaded in Greece, employing his
time in knocking out “copy ” descriptive of that
classic land. He goes thence to Turkey, and ex-
pects to be able to furnish some interesting infor-
mation about that great loan land. “ J.H.” Bends
•us this information on a Greek postcard. A less
economical man would have used a sixpenny
stamp. It is J.H.’s boast that he can travel round
the earth with no luggage beyond two pairs of
socks and a tooth-brush.
“ Billy” Murdoch made his debut as soli-
citor in the Melbourne County Court last week.
He appeared-happy augury—on behalf of his
father-in-law. Mr. J. B. Watson, in a “ right-of-
way ” suit- It was on the first day of the England
v Australia match at Manchester, and perhaps
the bold William’s thoughts were far, far away.
In imagination, maybe, he was scoring 1000, not
out and accepting the congratulations of the
nobility and gentry. The plaudits of the multi-
tude very likely were ringing—but, anyway, he
lost that county court case for his client.
Oue of the numerous church-reporters of
that “good” paper, theS.A. Advertiser, stated
that a local clergyman, in preaehlng the funeral-
sermon of the late Dean Russell, “chose for the
basis of his discourse the 3rd verse of the 20th
chanter of Revelation.” Now it happens that that
verse reads in this way—“ And cast him into the
bottomless pit, and shut him up, and set a seal
UDon him, that he should deceive the nations no
more, till the thousand years should be fulfilled,
and after that he must be loosed a little season.”
There seems to be a mistake somewhere here-
abouts.
It is now cabled that “ the Duke of Con-
naught is being urged to visit Australia and open
tbe Adelaide exhibition.” In regard to this matter
the exhibition-promoters are holding a sort of
Royal Dutch auction. First they vainly tried the
Prince of Wales ; presently they went down on
their marrow-bones to Connaught, the hero who
so gallantly “ held the guards in reserve” at the
battue of T fi-el-Kebir, while the other troops were
slaughtering the miserable Egyptians. The Ade-
laide exhibition people are getting very low.
They’ll ultimately have to be satisfied with the
latest royal baby, sent out in charge of a monthly-
nurse.
Mr. Curtis Reid, the well-known Victorian
erieketer and cricketing writer is dead, “He was
the chronicler of the babyhood of Australian
oricket, and lived to witness the attainment of its
manhood and its championship. As a lad he was
among the first of the overlanders, and bore the
rough and tumble of station life on the Murray,
before Beechworth was a village. He was one
of those essentially, honest, good-natured, true
men, whose lives, despite all care, seem always
rippled with a perennial smile, and his last
thoughts were of a new newspaper venture,
which would have brought him profit, but the
accomplishment of which the Great Reaper pro-
hibited.”
H. A. Long, of the firm of Long and York,
whose Deity-cwm-Devil show has been raking in
secular half-crowns and holy sixpences, up North,
is unfortunate when he resorts to anecdote. He
told recently how he went once to lecture at a
London Hall of Science, and there found eight
infidels. He prosed away to this small congrega-
tion until one weary worshipper yelled out: “For
God’s sake, give us an argument.” Long quoted
this as proving that even so-called atheists believe
in a Deity in their hearts. But most men would
rather have let the illustration go to the distant
land of Shinar, or further still, than acknowledge
that in all London they could only muster an
audience of eight.
The Bat, a London paper, mildly sizes up
the Australian people thus, after its editor had
met half-a-dozen of them at a theatrical supper,
THE SUNDAY NEWSMAN.
“He who supports not a N.S.W. Centenary Exhibition, is a traitor to his country.
There, now!”
and all got drunk together. “Personally,” he
says, “I have no affection for colonists. Either
they are descended from convicts, and inherit
their manners, or else they emigrated from the
mother country because they were no good here;
but, to their credit, let me admit that, with one
exception, they made themselves unobjectionable
on Thursday night.” The Bat is evidently an
authority on the manners and customs of convicts.
Perhaps it never dawns on this scribe that people
leave England now-a-days, not because they are
no good there, but because the mother country,
Victoria, John Brown, Wales, and all the rest are
about played out.
Thomas Ramon, a Melbourne cabby of
patriarchal aspect, was summoned last week for
leaving his charger uncared lor with nothing but
its infirmities to prevent it from dashing off and
committing slaughter in the streets. At first it
seemed as if Thomas would have to live apart
from his family for a week or two, till someone
told the .Bench that many years ago he was an
orderly—a Governor's orderly— think of tbatl
Then the “ loyal ” Bench uprose and tearfully dis-
missed Thomas with a blessing, because of bis
former distinguished services to the State, and
now he is justly at liberty, if he pleases, to drive
on both Sides of the road at once, gallop over
crossings, tear a constable’s uniform, and drink
on Sundays. A movement is on foot amongst
Adelaide aldermen to get him over to open the
forthcoming Exhibition.
The Queen has taken a private box for the
Italian opera-season In London. If she patronises
a performance the worthy lady will he disappointed
to find how things have altered since she was last
inside a theatre. Then a ballet always followed
the Opera, and the Queen stayed to see it through.
A passion for inspecting as much of her fellow-
creatures as possible seems to be implanted in the
royal bosom. In the old times it was said that the
young Queen never took her glasses off the lovely
dansemes. In these latter days the matured
monarch has developed a positive mania for see-
ing all women in short sleeves and low bodices,
while, as regards the opposite sex, a short kilt is
the surest passport to Royal favour. The only
pathetic passages in “ Leaves from my Diary” are
those relating to “ poor Brown’s logs.”
Charles Bush, the eminent English sport-
ing man who took Trickett under his wing when
the latter rowed Sadler, is dead. The boat in
which Trickett rowed his first race for the
championship was the “ Charles Bush.” Mr. Bush,
well remembered as “ the clean-shaved man in the
white hat,” was at one time a most successful
bookmaker, and 20 years ago must have been
pocketing £IO,COO a year; but he made the mistake
of leaving his legitimate groove, and so met
adversity half way. His purse was always open,
and he never knew how to refuse a sponger
asking for a loan, nor had any man of his means
ever so many pensioners living upon him. They
ate up his substance, and it may fairly be said
that a better or more kind-hearted man was never
known in connection with the betting-riDg.
While Maxwell (arrested at Auckland,
N.Z.), the cold-blooded and convicted murderer of
his travelling-companion, Preller, was on trial for
his life at St. Louis, he ‘‘masbei the women in the
court all the time.” We read that “ even when the
trunk was brought in (tho same reeking, ghastly
receptacle that had contained Preller’s body) for
identification—while Manioc, a porter, described
the appearance of Preller’s body, the manner in
which he was startled when the right leg of the
corpse flew up as the trunk lid was thrown open,
the attitude of the head crowded into one corner
and the frightful discoloration of the remains—
even while Manion was reciting all this horrible
story, Maxwell’s attention was given to a peaceful
and somewhat charming little lady in blue who
sat at one side with her cloak thrown back over
her shoulders and wore a hat that came near ob-
scuring her eyes.
“Lord Carington,” says theKapunda (9. A )
Hehal"-, * 'is understood to be—not at all to his
discredit—the original of that delectable song
4 Champagne Charlie.’ The story goes that he was
away down in the lower counties hunting with his
bosom iriend the Prince of Wales, and that they
were accompanied by a well-known musical com-
poser whom the prince delighted ia at that time.
Carington was a cheerful bon vivant, and his
familiar title In that august company was ‘ Charlie.’
In the course of luncheon he remarked, jocularly,
tilting a glass, ‘Champagne Charlie is my name,’
and the composer immortalised the words. It
was Lord Carington, too, who, not without provo-
cation, horsewhipped Grenville Murray, the bitter
writer of * Society in London,’ and one of the first
proprietors of the World. Lord Carington has
the reputation of being a genial, kindly soul-not
at all a bad fellow, for a lord.”
A N.Z. country butcher, one day, lately,,
was wrestling with his books in the endeavour to
ascertain how much poverty he had accumulated
during the year. “ Hang It,” he said, “ I never
sausage a muddle as I’ve got into with them
Aggers. They don’t seem to chop up right, any-
how.” Then he scratched his head with bis mag-
num bonum, and perplexedly stood in his shop-
door. Presently he saw a stranger approach, and,
in bis despair, he asked him if he " knowed
a ything about Aggers.” The stranger said he
did a little, and enquired how he could help him.
The butcher explained, and the two went into the
back shop and tackled the difficulty. In a short
time the stranger discovered where the mis-steaks
were, and soon had the balance-sheet ready for
the butcher's banker’s inspection—showing, of
course, a handsome surplus. Greatly relieved, the
butcher asked the stranger how muoh he was in
his debt. “ Oh, nothing,” was the reply. “ 1 have
often a difficulty with figures myself. Good day.”
The stranger departed, and just as he went out a
neighbour dropped in. “ Who is that?” asked
the butcher, pointing to the departing financier.
“ Oh, that's Major Atkinson, our late Colonial
Treasurer,” replied the neighbour, “ and a boss
hand at figures, too, you bet.”
Miss Maud Branscombe, a young lady
whose face is familiar to us in the photographers’
windows, got married the other day to the man
who plays the piano for her pettifogging show
round the English provincial towns. We observe
that the London paragraph has been seized upon
by Australian papefs, wherein Maud Branscombe
is described as “the celebrated beauty.” They
got that idea from the imported photographs.
Many, many, many years ago we remember being
deluded in the same way by those fraudulent pic-
tures. Maud Branscombe clinging to a cross,
with her back hair all over the place, seemed the
realisation of our young dreams of feminine love-
liness. She was depicted in a hundred other posi-
tions, and looked paralysing in every one of them.
We might have gone on worshipping Maud till
now if we hadn’t seen her in the flesh and in the
street. Ah, what a day of disenchantment was
that I The spirituelle phiz, of the shop windows
was puny and insipid, and as for her figure—well,
you might put the whole lot of Miss Branscombe
into a lunch-tin. She’s something less than petite.
It pains us to make these disclosures, for we know
that Maud has many adorers all over Australasia.
We have seen ardent youths gazing at her laic (or
rather, unfair) presentment in a George-otreet
show-case with the same misguided delight that
we experienced about the time they were born.
But as a hard, bitter lesson to the drivelling dailies
we feel it our duty to take an affidavit that Maud
Branscombe is not a “celebrated beauty.” No
C.M.G.’s tombstone ever lied with more unblush-
ing effrontery than that young woman’s übiqui-
tous photo.
The Prince of Wales ba3 been taken in
hand by a Melbourne “phrenologist.” This
“phrenologist” contributed columns of dreary
platitudes to the Herald about public characters
and their bumps. He tells admiring readers that
James Service is in his (the phrenologist’s) estima-
tion suited for bossing a Government and develop-
ing Imperial Federation—that Graham Berry was
cut out for an Agent-General and knighthood—
and that Peter Lalor has the exact cranium re-
quired to qualify a man for the position of Speaker.
Now that ne has used up all tne local Btars, this
artful magician is about to grind out fresh
columns about European Royalties. Just at this
juncture he felt Australia was panting to hear
about the Prince of Wales. So the oracle has
spoken. Having bought a large full-face photo-
graph of Bertie, and passed his hand carefully
over the bumps at the back of the royal head, the
phrenologist has come to the conclusion that this
Prince is not “strictly moral.” Nevertheless, we
are not to think badly of Bertie. And in order
that we may not be led astray by wieked, idle
tales, this delectable twaddler gives his readers a
valuable hint. With superior scorn, he asks—** In
estimating the character of our Prince, have we
to accept the statement of the Court journals, or
go to the Press of the gutter ? Have we to ques-
tion the Court Circular ? ” No, enlightened
critic, a thousand times no ! The Court Circular
shall be our Bible in matters appertaining to
Royalty. We will treasure up the blessed truths
written therein, and learn to reverence our
Princes and Princesses as we used to reverence
our God. We repent of past transgressions in ac-
cepting such gutter literature as Thackeray’s
“Four Georges.” In order to estimate the
character of George IV., we will look up the Court
journals of his period.
A GOOD JOKE.
A certain public school teaoher, in his endeavours
to confound the miDds of the children entrusted
to his care, set before tnem the following: compli-
cated example: Said this wise teaoher: I hold in
my hand a bottle of Anheuser Busch St. Louis
Lager Beer. I give one-quarter to Sam, one-
quarter to Tom, and take half myself. What will
remain ? Speak out loud, said the teacher. The
bottle! shouted a keen, blue-eyed kid.
MERITED PRAISE.
The universal praise bestowed upon Dr. Ball's
Bitters as an invaluable remedy for all disorders
of the kidneys, liver and bowels, is well merited.
Its virtues are univerally known, and its Gures are
reported on all sides. Many obstinate cases have
succumbed to it after they had been given up by
the doctors, and a thorough treatment will never
fail to cure. Sold by all druggists.*
Marie ? .zard!
Makeifa rule to drink Wolfe’s Schnapps- It ° re *
ates no false appetite, but has an invigoratingleffect.
Don’t use stimulants, but nature’s brain
and nerve foad—Hop Bitters. Beware of all
except made by American Co. See
For Fat Persons.—Dr. F. 0. Russell’s
English Cure for Corpulency, Perfectly harmless
and healthful. Reduoes from 5 to 7 pounds weekly.
In cases (double strength) at reduced prices.
Elliott Bros,, and all chemists.
SOCIALITIES, ’B6, Is. (post Is, 3d.), now ready
150 illustrations. The brightest, largest, and
cheapest work ever published. All previous edi-
tions excelled. All booksellers. Alex. M’Kinley
and Co„ Sydney.
After dinner is the time to ask a favour,
patronage, support, or what not. If the asked
one has had a good dinner, depend upon it he is
pliable, but if that dinner has been served upon
such a set as is supplied by Bray Bros., of four
hundred and two and four hundred and four
George-streef, why he ought to be as soft as
wax. The inner-man has been satisfied, and his
eye has been pleased by the chaste patterns aDd
designs placed before him, that he will be readyrto
accede to any request. This surely is worcn
knowing.*
Butler W. Ormonde, Private Enquiry
Agent, 313 George-street, undertakes all kinds of
confidential business, traces absconders, wife
deserters, and missing relatives ; procures copies
of certificates and wills, at moderate rates. Col-
lector of rents and debts. Acts «s agent generally.
Letters written. The most absolute secrecy ob-
served. Note the address3l3 George-street,
second floor.*
Have you lost your appetite ? Then take
"Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Marie Brizardl
SOCIALITIES, ’B6, Is. (post Is. 3d), now ready:
150 wood-euts. The book for maiden, rea sh , ei j
young and old. All booksellers. Alex. M’Eimey
and Co., Sydney.


Political
Points
Justin M‘Carthy has again been narrowly
defeated—by three votes. Just-ln—j ust out.
Parkes is not oomiDg baek to power in
N.S.W. Were we inclined to worship the rising
sun, we’d likely fall upon our knees to Abbott.
So the lines have been defined in N.S.W.
It’s to be Orangelsm and Free-trade against Inde-
pendence and Proti otion. We’ll back Protection.
During the “blockheads’ blockade” in
the N.B.W. Assembly, Parkes, Neild, and Co ,
stood like a stonewall—and showed about equal
sense.
On dlt that Mr. W. S. Targett, M L. A. for
Lithgow, will shortly resign his teat in the N.S W.
Assembly and serve his country in a Government
billet.
“Freetrade,” says Sir Saul Samuel, “is a
condition precedent to Imperial Federation.” All
the Australias are gradually becoming Protec-
tionist.
The office of Attorney-General must be
regarded as a bonne bouche by the law sharks in
Tasmania. No Jess than nine lawyers are candi-
dates in the forthcoming general election.
“ A Protestant Home Rule League has
been started in Belfast to support Mr. Gladstone.”
Bo that the Irish Question is not altogether one of
religion, as the L.O.L. would have us believe.
G. H. Reid refuses to debate the question
of Protection v. Freetrade, at Orange, because of
the bad feeling which will arise. That’s so. The
Freetraders always do feel bad after such debates.
Antonio Bergensteiner admitted last week
tn a Sydney Police Court that he was an unoerti-
Qcated insolvent, We have not yet heard what
constituency he intends to represent in the next
N.S.W. Parliament?
Sir Henry Parkes said in the Assembly
last Saturday night that he cared little for Mr.
Ninian Melville’s opinion. The member for Nor-
thumberland replied that many people cared less
for Sir Henry’s signature.
During the obscene orgies indulged in by
the N.S.W. Assembly last week, Mr. F. Gibbts
twice occupied the Speaker’s chair until someone
pulled him out. This was exceedingly irregular.
Fred. Gibbes is no speaker.
The fee paid to warders who swing the
cat in N.S.W. gaols is £3loi.—for eaoh case. Thus
the rate varies Hccording to sentence from 2s. to
4s. 2d a lash. Flogging is a good thing for the
lashers, but what of the lashee ?
Mr. J. P. Abbott, perhaps the most master-
ful man in the N.B.W. Assembly, will shortly
make a strong Protectionist speech. But Mr.
Abbott is a lawyer, and will never make a Radical
leader—especially as he’s a Conservative.
Though the Government of the day care-
fully suppressed the fact, it is now known that
over £250,000 worth of property belonging to the
NSW. Lands and Mining Department was con-
sumed in the burniDg of the Sydney Garden
Palace.
The Yiotorian Council has spent three
weeks debating over the address in reply. It
would save a great deal of valuable time if the
House would simply acknowledge his Excellency’s
speech by “ shouting ” a long beer and then get to
business.
An arithmetical fiend in N.Z. has ascer-
tained, after much calculation, that it would have
taken a man with a shovel about 1,000,000 years
to move the slush thrown out by Mount Tara-
wera, and that at 61. per ton the job would have
cost £150,000,000. The volcano did it gratis, and
saved the country this vast expenditure, and yet
people do not seem to be jubilant.
Hon. G. R. Dibbs, N.S.W. Colonial Secre-
tary, denies the report that there is a “split” in
the Cabinet. Things are a bit unsettled, but uo
one will “split.” Mr. Dibbs has been a member
of eaoh of the last three Governments in N.B.W.
While such a system prevails, it will be impossible
to get a Government which will honestly review
the delinquencies of its predecessors.
In the Victorian Legislative Assembly,
recently, a number of members opposed tne
second readipg of a Bill to extend the liability of
employers for injuries sustained by their work-
men, and stated frankly that they objected be-
cause the measure would be “injurious to capital.”
Statesmen of the good old Tory pattern seem to
give themselves away gratis when they start
assigning reasons.
Russia, seeing England in domes tio trouble,
has further abrogated the treaty resultant from
the Crimeau war, by declaring that Batoum, on
l the Black Sea, is no longer a free port. Russia is
I like the blaokfellow who stalks the emu : she
always takes one step when tae bird has its head
on the ground. Possibly, however, the present
move is au Imperialistic one, directed at the
Democratic Gladstone.
That feeble personage, Mr. C. J. Roberts,
M.P., U.M.G., &0., voted in favour of the ad valorem
proposals of the N.S.W. Ministry a few weeks ago.
Sinoe tuen he has accompanied Sir Henry Parkes
on his tour through the country where Brickhili's
Baby waslborn, and he is now voting with Parkes
against the Ministry. Has the C. H.G. been
“ nobbled” by the promise of a portfolio ? If we
have a Ministry with an O’Connor why not one
with a Roberts ?
The other day we heard that Mr. Henniker
Heaton, M.P., had been elected to the Carlton
Club. We now read iu Vanity Fair, an organ of
the political party of whicn the Carlton Club is
representative, that the club contains ‘ social
parasites, gin-distillers, drapers, furniture-dealers,
usurers, and other wealthy nonentities without
number—but not a single editor or proprietor of
any newspaper ” In which category, then, is Mr.
Henniker Heaton included ?
The Kapunda Herald goes straight and
strong for the abolition of distress for rent. The
question is worth a lot of attention. There is
really no reason why a landlord should be specially
assisted in recovering a debt to the prejudice and
loss of tradesmen and other ereditors. Progressive
Australia must investigate carefully the justice
of claims allowed under the system of law im-
ported to this continent from the old-world. Few
legal rights have less of justice than this one of
seizing chattels in satisfaction of rent.
A German newspaper, with a name like a
cough and a sneeze, announces that the betrothal
ofPnnce Oscar of Sydney to the Princess Louise,
eldest daughter of Wales, will soon take place, but
there are still difficulties in the wgy. The Swedish
Reichstag, once so full of slushy “ loyalty,” re-
fuse to vote a pension to the young prince. They
say the King, regarded as an article of furniture,
is not so had, ana they don’t mind paying for him,
hut the prince had better go into the crab and
oy trade, and try to make an honest living
r vacant, and then he can apply
for the billet and live ou the nation.
There is a big lump of justice underlying
the idea put forward by a valued correspondent I
who writes to The Bulletin thus: —“ The State
should make every man work—say, from the age
of 18 to 30. Why should all the hard and dirty
physical labour fall on the class least able to work
hard ?—the uneducated and under-fed ? If it be
necessary (but it is not) that the labour should be
done by one class, surely the fittest class is that of
the well-fed, the strong, and the educated—that is,
the sons and daughters of the wealthy.” This
bold reformer was born about 500 years too soon,
but he has got down to the bed-rock of the social
difficulty for all that.
Thus Thadeus O’Kane, of Jthe Northern
Miner (than whom, let us remark, political R.C.
priests have no more unoomoromising opponent):
“ The parson-ridden Press of Australia is jubilant
over the defeat of Mr. Gladstone's Irish Home
Rule Bill. The Sydney Morning Herald lifts
its sanctimonious voice in exultation. The Bris
bane Courier and the Telegraph, under parson
inspiration, re-echo the cry of Protestant Ascen-
dancy. The Church is in danger, and down with
Popery. The Rockhampton Bulletin joins in
the holy howl, and the Charters Towers Herald
closes the dingo chorus with William Doonan and
the Charters Towers Orangemen.”
“Dear Bulletin,— Have a look at this.
Up the Paroo way the shearers and the rouse-
abouts are striking—feed is getting plentiful, the
rivers are navigable, wool has gone up, and the
men want the old prices. The masters won’t give
it, so the men go ‘ out.’ To counteract this, the
masters wire to the Immigration Depot, Sydney—
‘ Send up 150 unemployed.’ These men come to
Bourke free by raii (at least some have come to
my knowledge). When there they are found to be
starving—no blankets, no billies, no food. These
are provided by a paternal Government in order
to enable M'Caughey, of Toorale, to fight his
recalcitrant hands. Is this ‘ jonnick ?'—Yours
truly, 0.K.”
The Sydney Globe has published a leader
on Parkes’ Freetrade speech at Orange, and
headed it “ Dotage or Lies ?” We have read the
article carefully, and are quite unable to say
which Is the correct title. Perhaps the lies are a
trifle ahead, but it is a very close race. Following
this, however, appeared a sub-leader, also devotee
to Henry, which let the poor old man down with
an unlooked-for compliment. “He leads,” said
the Globe, “not because his ‘ragged regiment’
like or trust him, but because they are ragged—
because he is strong and they are weak—because
he always was and ever will be the very devil to
deceive.” Yet he has apparently not sucoeeded in
deceiving the Globe, so he must he a very second-
rate devil after all.
“ What shall we say of the Idle Aristoo-
raoy, the owners of the soil of England, whose
recognised function is that of handsomely con-
suming the rents of England, and as an agreeable
amusement (if the purchase-money and other con-
veniences serve) dilietanteing in Parliament and
Quarter Sessions for England? We will say
mournfully, in the presence of Heaven and Earth
—that we stand speechless, stupid, and know not
what to say I That a class of men entitled to live
sumptuously on the mfarrow of the earth; per-
mitted simply, nay, entreated, and as yet en-
treated in vain, to do nothing at all in return,
was never heretofore seen on the faoe of this
planet.” Thomas Carlyle, quoted for the benefit
of the Australian Primrose Leaguers.
The story goes that a oertain Sydney
stipendiary, finding he would be detained by pub-
lic business in the city all night-telegraphed to the
sergeant in his suburb asking that the police
might keep an eye on his (the; magistrate’s) resi-
dence. The Telegraph Department having refused
to take paper money for the “ wire,” and pass it
on as 0.H.M.5., the magistrate brought the case
before the reigning Postmaster-General, who
sided with the permanent head of the department,
and declared the money must be paid. But the
magistrate held out for 18 months, when a second
P.M.G. came into power, and then, fringing the
matter up again “ on principle,” the department
was deprived of the two shillings in dispute,
whereupon the saving Solon went his way re-
joicing.
Mr. Blaine, of the U.S. A. Senate, sums up
the system of Irish Government in one sentence,
thus: “In a Parliament 0fi.058 members, Great
Britain has 553 and Ireland 105, and except with the
consent of that Parliament Ireland cannot organise
a gas company, or a horse railroad company, a
ferry over a stream, or do the slightest thing that
implies legislative powers.” This is the system
whiGh the bogus Ulster army—now mustering
75,000 dummy privates with half-a-dczen missing
noblemen to lead them-is Dledged to support.
And Tories, Orangemen, and all kinds of miscel-
laneous fossils would have us believe that they are
prepared to steep their cotton umbrellas -we
mean their flashing swords, the umbrella was a
clerical error-in blood to make this tyranny
eternal.
Dear Bulletin,—Near Louth, on the Dar-
ling, a meeting was called to express disapproval
of the N.S.W. Land Act. The squatters knew
better than to put one of their own members into
the chair, but to give the affair an air of bona
JldeB they induced a good-natured buliocky to
take the whip. After the spouting had been done,
chiefly by a local statien-manager, the charioteer
was told to put the motion. He promptly said:
“ I beg to propose that this meeting approves of
the Land Aot.” A deafening shout carried the
motion, although Mr. C— was tugging and pinching
at the chair, and trying to reverse the proposal.
There's nothing like whisky; but when the stage-
management omit a rehearsal they are asses.—
Yours, Hiram Abiff. P.S.—The meeting wap,
however, reported in the locals as desired by the
promoters.
Mr. Wall, junior member for Mudgee, has
given notice of motion to declare the whole
colony of N.S.W. a mininvarea, so that any portion
alienated since May, 1880, may be resumed by
Government upon payment to the owner of the
amount of the suriace value of the land and the
improvements thereon. Mr. Wall is going for a
sound priooipie in a blundering way. He is trying
to model justice with a pickaxe. Hia mot on,
if carried, will bs necessarily futile; and even
if the reform were attempted on his lines, the
State would gain only the very sma lest possible
benefit. The claims tor compensation would eat
up all the benefit to be gained by the resumption.
If Mr. Wall goes straight for mining on private
property, and State royalty on all minerals, he
will get a large amount of independent supoort,
but his present resolution wiil only hinder the re-
form it is meant to favour.
Mr. N. Healy, writing to the Cootamundra
paper, points out that the S M. Herald, which all
along hae pretended to look with suspicion and
alarm on Gladstone’s Irish policy, and tried to
show that the Sydney feeling was not a representa-
tive one has,|ln a leading article on the annual cele-
bration of the American “ Day of Independence,”
the following words of rejoicing at the event
commemorated on the fourth of July“ We join
in the celebration ot the day, not because it re-
minds us of the humiliating defeat of British
armies, or the loss of splendid territories to the
Empire of which we form a part, but because it sym-
bolises and embodies a long-continued and at last
successful struggle for the rights of self-govern-
ment.’’ The Herald is one of that numerous
class of papers that never worships anything but
success, and always barks for the uppermost dog.
Like the average Australian daily, it teaches
people to adore Garibaldi and Kossuth, but
solemnly warns all hands to take no interest in
Ireland, and to look askance on anyone who speaks
well of Parnell. That, too, is the tme even of the
Age, whioh has turned Judas with Berry.
Cablegram from the Australian Tory-
directed daily Pre»s :—“ London, Tuesday.—A
large mob of Catholics assembled in the streets of
Dunlin at midnigat and attacked a club of Or&Dge
workmen. Tae occupants of the building fired
upon their sssailants, killing one and wounding
36. Beventy-five Of.-ngeme i have been arrested.”
Italics ours. How glibly tne cable correspondent
talks of the R.C. mob! “ Mob” as contra-distin-
guisaed from “ crowd ” is an opprobrious epii.net:
you speak of a “ mob ’ of aggressive ruffians—of
a “ crowd ” of respectable, orderly, law-abiaing
citizens. Equally neat is the iDgenuous cable’s
statement that the Orangemen in tne “ club” were
workmen ’’—inference: nice,clean, respectable,
good, pious, toiling Christian fathers of families,
who had assembled after a day’s labour not to
plan and plot and scheme and promote sedition
and religious discord—oh, no I - and who were sud-
denly attacked by a howling drove of bloodthirs'y
fanatics whom they, the dove-like innocent crea-
JnL res ’ never > never done anything to offead.
ice cablemao is generally a liar. We’ve ready to
make a sporting declaration that when the full
tacts come out it will be seen that the Orangemen
(how did the Orangemen get arms while the Arms’
Aot continued in force ?) are a deal more cul-
pable than the other side.
On behalf of the Victorian Irrigation Bill,
an enthusiastic M.L.A. said that if the Govern-
ment proposals were carried out thoroughly “ the
l*od„ymue of the oniony would be increased from
£50,060 000 to £100,000,000 during the next 20 years.”
He meant the land value of the landowners, all of
whom might follow the load of Sir Samuel Wilson
and devote the unearned increment to the service
of a condescending aristocracy. It is idle to talk
about increasing the land-value of an Australian
colony when any English syndicate might buy up
that land at its present prioe, hold it for the speci-
fied 20 years, and then sell it again in the London
market at cent, per cent, profit; and, even if there
be no absentee landlords, it is a precious small
consolation for the people to know that a success-
ful irrigation scheme will merely aggrandise (in
the main) the noble army of capitalists and create
a race of drones. It is computed that the carrying
through of Mr. Deakin’s schemes will involve an
expenditure of four millions. That is to say, the
people have to find four millions for a risky ex-
periment. If it fails the people lose their money.
If it suoceeds the landowners reap the benefit.
They and their families immediately renounce
labour and probably take themselves toYurrup.
No. Without Land Nationalisation all the Irriga-
tion Bills in the world will fail to improve the
condition of the humble toilers and moilers on the
soil which is enriched.
Perhaps comparatively few are aware of
the extent of the scandalous corruption resorted
to, to effect the union of Ireland with Great
Britain 86 years ago. Here is a small selection
from the loDg list of those whose votes were pur-
t ha«ed :—J. Bingham, created Lord Clanmorris ;
£BOOO for two seals, and £l5 00J compensation for
Tuam ; had first offered himself for sale to the
anti-Unionists. Joseph H. Blake, created Lord
Wailscourt. Sir J. G. Blackwood, created Lord
Dufferin. Sir John de Biakquiere, created Lord
de Blaquitre, with offices and pensions. Lord
Boyle, son of Lord Shannon ; father and son re-
ceived each £15,000 for their boroughs. Charles
H. Coote, created Lord Castlecoote, with a regi-
mental patronage in Queen’s County, and £7500 .in
cash. James Cuff, his father made Lord Tyrawley.
Lord Fitzgerald, a pension and a peerage. Luke
Fox, made a J udge of Common Pleas. William
Fortescue, a pension of £3OOO a year. J. G albraith,
a baronetage. Richard Hare, made Lord En-
nismore, with patronage. Colonel B. Henniker,
a regiment and £3500 a y.mr for his seat.
Hon. J. Hutchinson made Lord Hutohinson and a
General. Hugh Howard made Postmaster-General.
William Handcock, an extraordinary instance.
He made and sang songs against the union in 1798,
and made and sang songs for it in 1800, for which
he was made Lord Castlemaine—a title of peculiar
infamy, having been] given by Charles 11. to one
Palmer for the debauching of his wife. W. G.
Joscelyn, promotion in the army, and bis brother
made Bishop of Lismore. William Johnstone,
according to the statement made by him, returned
to Parliament by Lord Castlereagh to put an end
to P, “a judaoship.” Right Hon. H. Langrishe,
£15,000 for his patronage of Knocktopher and a
Commissionership of Revenue. T. Lingray, £l5OO
and a Commissionership of Stamps. J. Longfleld
made Lord Longfleld. Lord Loftus, £30.000 for
boroughs and made an English marquis. H.
D. Massey, £4OOO in cash. Right Hon. Lodge
Morris, made a peer. Sir R. Mussgrove made
Receiver of Customs, with £l2OO a year.
James M'Cleland, made Baron of Exchequer. Sir
W. G. Newcomen, a peerage for his wife, &o.
H. F. Prattle made Lord Dunaily. Sir Richard
Quin made a peer. The Hon. H. Sheffingtom made
clerk of Paper Offices at the Castle with £7500 for
his patronage. H. M. Sandford made Lord Mount
Sandford. John Stewart made Attorney-General
and a baronet, Hon. B. Stratford, £7500 as half
oomoensation for Baltinglass. Hon. J. Stratford,
£7500 for the other half of Baltinglass and pay-
master of foreign troops, with £l3OO a year. Right
Hoa. J. Toler, a peerage and Chief Justiceship.
Hon. R. Trench made a peer and ambassador. This
is a mere fragment of a list of 140 persons thus
brought up. Amongst the most prominent pick-
ings were those of Lord Shannon for his patronage
in the Commons, £45,000; the Marquis of Ely,
£45.000; Lord Clanmorris, £45,000; Lord Belvi-
dere, £45,000 ; 'Sir Henry Langrishe, £45,000.
Then follows a long and frightful list of lawyers
who sold their influence in the Irish Parliament—a
solemn warning against the admission of too many
lawyers to Parliament. We may select a few of
the imost lavishly-paid :—Mr- Charles Osborne
made Judge of King’s Bench, £3300; Mr. St. John
Daly, ditto, £3300; Mr. Williams made Baron of
Exchequer, £3303; Mr. M'Leland, ditto, £3300; Mr.
Robert Johnson made Judge of Common Pleas,
£3390; Mr. William Johnson, ditto, £3300; Mr.
Torrens, ditto. £3300; Mr. Vandeleur made Judge
of Queen’s Bench, £3300: Mr. Charles Ormsby
Counsel to Commissioners Value, £5000; Mr. Henry
Dean Grady, ditto, £5000; Mr Jemison as Com-
missioner for distributing a million and a half of
compensation money, £1203. “ The price of a
single vote was £BOOO in money, or an appointment
to an office of £2OOO a year. Some got both for their
votes, and no less than 20 peerages, 10 bishoprics,
and six puisne judgeships were tne prices of votes
for the union, disclosing the astounding fact that
£1,275,000 have been paid in purchase of Irish
borougns, and more than £l,OOO 000 expended in
bribes.” Comment would be superfluous!
Iu the grand old days of public executions,
when a halo of ghastly glory surrounded the
“ gent ” upon the gallows, many a man was thereby
incited to make a short cut to distinction by mur-
dering his missus. It seems that the dainty dishes
of horrors sarved up in penn’orths by the Nooze
have a similar tendency. Anyway, we read of a
Melbourne man. Peter Gray, telling his helpmate
that ‘ the Herald would sell more because of
what he would d > for her than when the Kellys
were captured.” Finally he did do something for
the lady, and the Herald duly chronicled the
“ 'orrible assorlt.” If that man’s lot had been cast
in Sydney, he would have sought the bubble re-
putation in the blood-curdling columns of the
Nooze And without wishing to disparage the
little Melbourne organ, we must gently insinuate
that Peter Gray carried his missus’s gore to the
wrong market.
A London paper utters sobs of anguish
over the case of a poor old man who appeared at
Southwark Police Court with bis little dog in his
arms, and who in default of paying a fine was sent
to prison because he had not taken out a license,
though he pleaded with tears that he had always
paid it hitherto, and that his little dog had been
his friend for 18 years. Before the day was over
more than 30 ladies and gentlemen, some of
them titled,” had called at the Police Court to
“ shell out the damage,” one of the latter also
fetching the dog and taking out the lioense. All
through the next few days, too, remittances to
liquidate the fin 9 kept pouring in from all parts of
the country until the ancient mongrel had re-
ceived almost his weight in gold. It may occur to
s jme that as dogs usually die before they are 14,
aa adult pup, aged 18 years, is rather a doubtful
rarity, but perhaps the old man put on eight or
nine years to increase the effect. Bat the striking
point is that men with helpless children are daily
sent to prison without the public contributing a
cent for the little ones, and that, after all, the rush
of benevolence was not evoked on behalf of the
unfortunate man, but for the sake of the mangy
beast. If the case had been reversed, and the dog
had appeared with the man in his arms, it is ques-
tionable if the result would have been so satis-
factory, unless, indeed, the novelty of the affair
had aroused the generous nation to come to the
rescue. After all it is better to be a toothless cur
than a hungry man just now in England.
AUSTRALIANA.
Short-sighted N.S.W, convicts “ are to be
allowed to wear speotaoles of the regulation pat-
tern.” The brutal authorities object to eye-
glasses In gaol.... The poet Meaden, who composes
Homeric odes while selling stockings and reels off
delicious lyrics while customers are cheapening
stay-laces, has won a 100-guinea prize offered for
the best essay on Australian Social and Commer-
cial Development From Melbourne Age:—
“ Lady having nice pony carriage would lend
same, or drive out lady, gentleman occasionally.
Moderate, Age Offioe.” “ Moderately moral,” we
suppose A half-holiday movement has been
started at Cooma, N.S.W.. but the shopkeepers re-
tort by declaring that their assistants have holiday
all day long, and their cash customers have
eDjoyed al2 months’ spell At Bega, N.S.W.,
a white man has got six months’ imprison-
ment for throwing a clod at a Chinaman. The
only redeeming feature is that he hit him
It is reckoned there are in N.B.W. 2,500,000 kan-
garoos, 2,300,000 wallabies, and 20,000 native dogs.
855,676 kangaroos, 506.372 wallabies, and 8178 native
dogs were destroyed last year; 63,117 sheep, value
£25,868, were killed last year by native dogs, and
69,715 sheep, value £29,658, by tame dogs
The bogus N.B.W. “Patriotic” Fund has
£31,023 at its credit.... Sir Judas Berry is no-
where so well summed up as by a French
editor in New Caledonia, who simply describes
him as “ one Graham Barry, who is behaving
himself like the devil in a basin of holy water.”...
Things seem to be bad in the Honolulu Parliament.
A Minister protests against the copper-coloured
nobles of the land coming into the House while
hopelessly drunk—ln consequence of the an-
nouncement that Mr. R. Hoddle D. White, one of
its members, has lunched with the Queen at
Windsor, Sydney Gun Club meditates raising its
subscription. ..The Sydney brickmasters have
struck, and locked out their men. The masters are
trying to make the public believe that they have
closed their yards because of intimidation of non-
union labour by Unionists. ...“A London writer:
“ I cannot congratulate Mr. Holl on his portrait
of Lord Carington in this year’s Academy. I have
always considered Lord Carington a very hand-
some man; but Mr. Holl has given him, in
anticipation, perhaps, of the effects of an Austra-
lian climate, a regular brickdust complexion
“ Thadeus O'Kane” supports the party in posses-
sion at Mount Morgan. He says the M’llwraith
crowd would tell any lie to “ even-up” with Grif-
fith The Long Tunnel Gold-mining Company
at Walhalla, Vic., has paid its 188th dividend (£$
per share), making the total amount paid in divi-
dends £1,000,800. This is the first Australian mine
which has publioly declared £1,000,000 paid in
dividends Brough Smith, the Gibbon of the
Blackfellows, lecturing at Sandhurst, said “ The
blaokfellow has the oorrelative faculty. He can
put this and that together and make sense out of
apparently nothing.” This make us yearn to meet
the aboriginal who can put. Fonetik Abigail and
Jawbone Neild together and make sense out of
them The Balvation Army oaptain at Bast
Maitland reports Our fortnight-old baby said,
‘I am very happy. I have been a great drunkard,
but I never was so happy in my life as I am now.’ ”
What a dissipated infant The “ state-cardage”
which the other day conveyed Hon. Judith Har-
bord and her brother from the Semaphore to Ade-
laide was at one end of the train, and exactly at
the other was a truck-load of pigs. “I consider,’*
remarks an impudent Adelaide writer, “that the
Harbords are entitled to an apology, and the pigs,
too.no doubt have their feelings about the matterl”
They certainly did grunt tremendously.” The
Orangemen held footraces in many places on 12th
July. No one is surprised at finding them getting
ready to run Dry a at, alias the Count de Beau-
mont, who told the Age all about the Russian
intentions, has been arrested in Melbourne “ over
a cheque.” —Total Queensland gold yield in 1885
was 310,9410 z.— an increase of 3!370z. over 1881.
Gympie field fell off 21,2000 z., but the Northern
goldfields increased 31,500oz—Dr. M’Masters, sur-
geon-superintendent of the immigrant steamer
Port Victor, now at Sydney, was doctor of
the s.s. Oregon when she foundered at sea.
He was also on board the R.M.S. Austral
when she went down in Sydney harbour
Harry Ballars, the veteran black pugilist, is now
over 70 years old, and in the Melbourne Benevo.
lent Asylum....A now hopelessly insolvent Mel"
bourne brewer admitted last week having received
£11,580 in June last as his share of his deceased
fatner’s business, and losing it all on the turf....
It is alleged that the Sheriff of N.S. W. has promised
Bourkea bran-new courthouse-no leas...'. James
Bull, a Belfast (Vio ) youth, has been killed by being
struck on the temple by the lash of a stockwhip..
Eight hundred niggers have died in three montb g
in one dirty New Guinea native t0wn....1n a few
months there wiil bs rail communication between
Brisbane and Adelaide—l67o miles The cham-
pion overlanders of all time are the brothers
M’Donald, of Goulburn, who, three years ago,
started from N.S.W. with 1000 cattle en route tor
their run on the Margaret and Fitzroy Rivers, and
have j ust arrived at their destination, after
traversing Queensland, the Guif country, and
Northern Territory The Sydney dailies print
full lists of the most trivial accidents dealt with at
the hospitals. So and so had a fishbone in his
finger, so and so had a slight epileptic fit. What
does the public want with fishbones and epilepsy y
The Bourke Watchman reports that “Ernest
Maguire, a juvenile orange-shaker,” has been in
trouble. We presume this youth’s religion is
some branch of the ordinary Shaker creed, like
that of the Banana Baptists or the Melon Metho-
dists... It is said that a N.S. W. stone waller is going
to proceed against the Sydney Mail for libel. We
have not heard his grounds of action but suppose
that they published his portrait.. The ne w Queens-
land flogger and hangman “is a man of abofit 45.
who wears a ‘hard-hitter’ hat, carries an um-
brella, and ‘ looks as if he had seen better days.’ ”..
The organist of a Queensland Church has resigned
on the ground of "incompatibility of choir.”.
An Italian deputation named O’Brien interviewed
the Victorian Chief Secretary lately on the subject
of irrigation, and informed him “ if the aistrict he
lived in did hot get water very soon, all the people
would go, and if they did, there would be nobody
left at all.”
SUCIAIiITIiSd, 86, lj. (puBE 13. 3d.), now ready,
150 illustrations. The brightest, largest, and
cheapest work ever published. AH previous edi-
tions excelled. All booksellers. Alex. M’Kinley
and Co.j Sydney.


I The “ evil spirit of the Cabinet ” is what
hey call G. R. Dibbs, in the N.S.W. Assembly.
Mr. Foster, M.L.A., says the House was
‘like a gaol;” during the blockheads’ blockade,
yes, it was, like part of a gaol—the lunatlo ward.
Nearly £3OO collected at the meeting in
Sydney on Tuesday night, in support of the Home
Rule movement and Mr. Parnell.
The N.S.W. Legislative Assembly has been
distinguishing itself lately. Its members have
been sitting all day and all night for half a
week at a stretch, aocusing each of ‘ drunken-
ness,” " oowardloe,” and “ blackguardism, an
ringing changes on the words, “ coward, ar, M
“ dastard,” “ ruffian,” " hound,” “ swine, cur,
“puppy,” and the adjectives usually appendant
(in the sooiety of bullockies) to those terms. The
people who are so unfortunate as to live on the
other side of the street in which the Assembly-
chamber is situated, have been deprived of sleep
by the noise of the obsoene brawling in the legisla-
tive pothouse. “Healer in pigs!” shrieked one
senator; “high-handed villainy!” gasped another;
•incapable tyrants and crawling d “®,,
cuped a third; “miserablescoundrels! yelped a
fourth; and so on. The Government side of
the House is ruled by brute animal propensities,
remarked the hoary-beaded Sir Henry Parkes;
and if the statements of a number of hon. mem-
bers are to be believed, a stiff percentage of the
august assembly was drunk- quite drunk. Fina y,
the House (hie) adjourned because (hie) it didna
wwh to dene (hie) crate the Sawbath! Amen.
Aldermen Rounsevell, of Adelaide, who
’ ately called the whole of the looal Civic officers
“liars,” has, it is telegraphed, “withdrawn any
objectionable remarks made, and regrets that
any offence was taken as none was intended.
It is well for this guileless Rounsevell man, who
calls people liars and then says he didn’t think
they would be offended, that he lives in the holy
and snuffling city of Adelaide instead of among
the cowboys of the Arizonan wilds. Even if Wil-
liam Rounsevell, who adds insult to injury by
expressing surprise that any man should feel
annoyed at being called a liar-even if Wil-
liam Rounsevell applied such an epithet to a
Woolloomooloo larrikin or a Chinamans bully
from Little Bourke-street, there might be
trouble, culminating in an undertaker’s knock st
the front door. If all the Adelaideans are thus
easily satisfied in the matter of apologies, it is
plain that the getting of the whoie population into
Irani for some meanness of a wookbisb ur
Walkerian description is only a matter of time.
Tinf rAftilv after all we have heard lately about
the dofigs of the population of Adelaide, we
ehoiild be really muoh surprised to find any citi-
zen respected in looal religious circles ‘‘.cut up
rusty "when labelled “ liar ” with lour adjectives
in front of it.
In Melbourne, reoently, a young woman
who had read about Neild and Parkes, and who
wished, like them, to climb the dizzy pinnacle of
fame, struck an ingenious method of becoming a
nubile character. She went out at night to a
lnrißiv sDoton the St. Kilda-road, and there scat-
tered half-a-dozen buttons, a shattered parasol,
and a bracelet on the ground, tore her dress,
nunched herself on the chest and ribs until Bhe
was covered with bruises, spilt a quantity of acid
over her wardrobe, and finally lay down, and
shrieked. When assistance arrived, and the pros-
trate female was hoisted into such a position that
her spine once more pointed towards the glitter-
-55? firmament, she explained that she had been
assaulted by four men who had since left. But,
somehow or other, suspicion was aroused, and at
fast she confessed that she had been playing a lone
hand in the whole performance. If she had not
thus let the cat out of the portmanteau, however,
the chances are about even that some unfortunate
would have been flogged over the affair,
on many, no doubt, have been in the psst
under similar circumstances. Ladies of this
class must have a little amusement at times,
and as they cannot distinguish themselves by
speaking for nine hours, or trying to poke out the
eve of a lighthouse with the beak of a coasting
Meamerfor backing themselves to wheel a pump-
kin in a handbarrow from Normanton to Mel-
bourne. they must seek their hair iness by the
means in their power. And there is, we pre-
sume, a certain holy .joy to be derived from doing
a tom-cat solo in a ditch at midnight.
The death of Mr. T. R. Hogg, of Sydney
('once of the firm of Royle and Hogg), who com-
mitted suicide on Saturday last, removed a far
better man than the average of those who take
this sudden method of ending all earthly troubles.
Mr Hogg had been suffering from intense mental
depression? owing to financial difficulties, and nc
ose can doubt thlt he was utterly irresponsible at
time of his death. At the funeral the officiat-
iag e’ergyman made a speech whioh contained at
epee a striking appeal that the memory of the dead
shouid beheflfsacred, and a tacit reproof of the
Christian bigotry whioh covers the name of a sui-
cide with opprobrium. Before the last prayer, Mr.
Baber said that as his action might be eba longed by
many he desired to state that, as he considered the
Xsad act of their departed friend to be due to a
sudden collapse of an overwrought brain and done
without intent to effect a crime, he felt j ustifled in
committing him into the hands of God. His life
had been a good one, his family relations of the
most affectionate character, and nothing but the
sudden giving way of his mental balance could
nave induced his Melancholy act. To the tender
sympathies of all he commended the poor broken-
hearted widow and little orphans. The scene while
Mr Baber made these remarks was most affecting.
Beautiful wreaths of flowers covered the ooffin,
and flowers were lovingly thrown into the grave
qo the large company of mourners departed. The
man who g would utter such words as these is un-
doubtedly vastly in advance of the majority of his
brethren so far as charity and other Christian
virtues are concerned, but such an apology
enuld hardly be needed exoept in a land where
there istomuch church and so little religion as in
New South Wales. It is the almost invariable
custom of cornstalk holiness to assume that the
Almighty views the rash aot of the suicide from
thesame standpoint as a bumptious eoroner and a
brutish publio-house jury, and that the final sal-
vation of the victim depends upon the verdict of
“temporary insanity.” But too few are prepared
to make allowance for the mental anguish which
leads an honourable man to seek death in order
to escape from troubles that would have no weight
whatever with the whitewashed hypocrite, and in
the minds of whole droves of prominent church-
men. the haloed swindler who goes to jail, has a
better chance hereafter than his brother who
urefers a leap in the dark to facing worldly diffi-
culties and temptations whioh might prove too
muoh for his powers of resistance. Mr. Baber s
words oontain a reproof to the stony-hearted mul-
titude who judge the suicide unheard, but he
m£ht wellhave* gone further, and have told his
hirers that many who thus condemn the dead
are a thousand times worse than be.
Mr. W. J. Triokett has resigned the posi-
tion of Chairman of Committees in the N.S.W.
Assembly. He had heard that Jaw Bone Neild
was pre t aring another speech.
Mr. .Foster, in the N.S.W. Assembly, Tues-
loomplained that not sufficient chance of dis-
jlng the Customs Bill had been allowed. Yet
Id had spoken for nine hours, and the others,
ether blathered away for three days at a
itoh. The House pretty soon gets tired of Mr-
iter discussing anything.
L dreary debate on a motion of adjourn
nt constituted the business of the N.S.W.
sembly on Tuesday night. The Opposition
ide a tremendous effort to clear themselves of
s stigma of obstruction, and worked off a lot of
uffle about the desecration of the Sawbath in
viewing the conduct of the Ministry. Mr. Lloyd
3 k the opportunity of denying that he was ever
illed out of church on Sunday to arrange about
jargo of flour-the yarn he said originated in the
king remark of a friend. This is a new idea,
bels of that kind usually emanate from an
Lemy.
The inquiry into the alleged N.S.W. rail*
ay frauds is likely to bring some very interest-
g information to light, besides that already
jtained. Messrs. Lee and Macalister, of Bourke,
•e charged with having made a profit of £3BO on
ie carriage of 4000 bales of last s eason’s dip. The
sfence seems to be that their way of working
as sanctioned by the Department. It is not pro-
able that the prosecution will bring up any more
vidence than is absolutely necessary for their
urpose; but it is certain that nothing short of a
evolution in the present system of railway
aanagement will satisfy the public.
The following item is calculated to induce
he average churchman to flop in silent, prayerful
torror. At Invercargill (N.Z.) there was recently
i heavy fall of snow, and the heathen Buddhists,
vho were making their usual rounds in the
mbbage business, were considerably pelted. Gee
3ung—or some such name—was one of the suf-
’erers, and having more pluck than the average
Mongol, he laid down his baskets and prepared to
3harge. Before he had time to spit on his hands,
aowever, the Bishop came along-a real live
Bishop made out of meat-and, after exhorting
dee to exercise the virtue of meekness, he turned
to remonstrate with the boys. Then followed an
episode whioh is calculated to make men
think the Bishop trade is about pUyed out,
for these sinful little imps actually snowballed the
boss shepherd and drove him away. We close this
ohreniole with all the outward symptoms of deep
and heartfelt grief.
Up to the time of our writing, the Foley-
cum-Newton-Lees combination have held two
shows at Foley’s gymnasium, Sydney.bofore large
and orderly audiences. The principal event of
the two evenings was the meeting of our cham-
pion, Foley, and Peter Newton ln three rounds on
Monday night. We had grave doubts a 3 to whethcr
Foley, with his present want of kip, wouin
show up with his old-time cleverness, but our
fears were soon dispelled on that score, as the
champion got all over Newton, acffi showed that
he has not forgotten the tricks of the trade put
into him by that “ master of the art, Gipsy Mace-
Lees and Newton’s set-to was of tne One, two,
three, four, you lead with the left, Ij counter on
the jaw,” something after the style of the stage-
cutlass combat, but there was nothing of tricky,
clever fighting about it, although the sounding
flip-flops of the open gloves take with the audience,
who mistake the sounders for heavy hds. Lees
box with Pablo Frank, if such it may be called, was
very so so, Lees holding out his f a ® 9 to be hit at,
shouting to Pablo to hit hard, and bad Foley 8
vroteat had the pluck of a mosquito, he would
have swung his right, which he is well able to do,
5Sd put ifr Lee* into his little cot “Flash”
business does not take with the Public, as the
hisses so freely bestowed clearly showed; and, by
the way, we are glad to see little Murphy has
dropped a lot of his hanky-panky. His bout with
Fuller on the Saturday evening was one of the best
features of the show. A stranger to ze > a lad of
Murphy’s poor physique stand in front of a man
of Fuller’s massive build would feel inclined to
cry “take him away,” but Murphy is well able to
take care of himself, and in besting Fuller showed
that cleverness and hard-hitting will soon bring , a
man down to his weight. Next Saturday night is
the concluding, and should prove the best show
of the season, as the odds are the bruisers will
“go ” for one another on the “ reputation racket.
Wolfe's Schnapps promotes assimilation of
the food.
How to Get Thin.— Remedy Perfectly
Healthful and Harmless. Dr. F. C. Russell’s English
Cure for Corpulenoy, reduces from 5 to 7 pounds
weekly. For Fat People. For Fat People. In
cases at reduced prices. Elliott Bros., and all
chemists.
If troubled with business oares and over-
work, Indulge in Wolfe’s Schnapps.
■Thousands of physicians and analysts have
certified to the purity of Wolfe’s Schnapps,
Marie Brizard I
For Fat Persons.—Dr. F. C. Russell’s
English Cure for Corpulency, Perfectly harmless
and healthful. Reduces from sto 7 pouads weekly.
In cases (double strength) at reduoed prices. Elliott
Bros., and all chemists.
Persons who work behind desks and work-
tables to them Wolfe’s Schnapps is recommended
SOCIALITIES, 'B6. H. (post Is. 35.) now ready.
150 illustrations. Have you seen the editions for
’B3. *B4. and 85 ? Then you will be sure to buy the
present worn! All booksellers. Alex. M Kinley
and Co., Sydney.
The system is strengthened and the nerves toned
by the use of Wolfe’s Schnapps.
H*A T B B
R O T A L.
Williamsok, GJIRNBB and MUSGBOTB, Managers.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
WILLIAMSON SEASON.
FOURTH WEEK
of the
WILLIAMSONS,
MAGGIE MOORE and J. C. WILLIAMSON,
and
FAREWELL PERFORMANCES IN SYDNEY,
of
STRUCK OIL.
JOHN BTOFEL Mr. Williamson.
LIZZIE STOFEL Miss Maggie Moore.
And the intensely amusing topical Farce the
CHINESE QOESTION.
The Williamsons in their original characters.
Business Manager for Mr. Williamson, Mr. Hughes.
Prices as usual. Box plan now open.
Royal standard theatre,
Castlereagh-street,
Between Liverpool and Bathurst streets.
Lessee Mr. Frank Smith.
Manager for Mr. F. Smith... Mr. J. Grant.
Under the Management of Mr. Dampier.
Business Manager Mr. Fred. Gunther
A DISTINCT UNEQUIVOCAL TRIUMPH.
SIXTH WEEK and LABT NIGHTS of
FOR THE TERM OF HIS NATURAL LIFE.
Box Plan open at Nicholson’s George-street.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING,
The drama written expressly for Mr. Dampier by
Taomas Somers, Esq., and entitled,
FOR THE TERM OF HIS NATURAL LIFE,
Interpreted by
MR. DAMPIER
and his Dramatic Company.
In preparation, VOICES OF THE NIGHT.
AI B T-Y T .; H Mrf
Business Manager.. VVrEETS MQLA*'
The^eautifuF^a^^Athtete^^ti^l^sjjj^fr olll
a Monster Gun 29 feet from hand by D
of the Theatre, and caught hand to hand hy
OHM x •
FUN FUN
FUN on the BRISTOL, _
a t SAMUEL, Representative for Mr. John i).
“■’ Sheridan.
A
OADIMY OF MUSIC.
and Manager.. F. B. Hisooeks.
Business Manager .. .. A. L. Cunard.
117th WEEK 117th
of the veritable
HISCOCKB’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and SPECIALITY UNION.
Entire change of Programme on
SATURDAY NEXT, „
when New Specialities will be produced for the
first time in this country.
T
HB
ALHAMBRA MUSIC
George-street, Haymarket.
HALL.
Proprietor and Manager
tail
Mr. Frank Smith.
Mr. E. Shipp.
Business and Stage Manager
The Home of Minstrelsy and Mirth.
,The Popular find Fashionable Resort.
TO-NIGHT, and every evening during the week,
THB ALHAMBRA VARIETY and SPECIALTY
UNION in their refined entertainment.
MINBTBLSY, OLIO, and FARCE.
Popular Prioes: Orchestra chairs, 2s; stalls, Is;
balcony, is.
Every Sunday Night, Grand Concert Spiritual,
at 7.30 o’elook.
YNOHJ, FAMILY
(Organised 1867)
BELLRINGERS
167).
Manager .. » •• Harry Lynch.
NORTHERN TOUR.
Port Macq’uarief and Monday, July 17,19
SKSf’cSS;; SEaSffiSWw. • •
Sydney Farewell Season, September and October.
Admission—4s., 35.. and 21. Boors open at 7.30,
O verture at 8.
h a e e !len t b1:(
THEATRE ROYAL,
®W«KHAMPTON.
THE above favourite house of Amusement has
just been thoroughly renovated, and is now
open to Travelling Companies.
For terms, &c., apply to
CHARLES NASH,
Proprietor.
WJ, HOLLOWAY
# and
MISS ESSIE JENYNS,
supported by their especially selected Company,
in
“A Ring of Iron,” “A Mad Marriage,” “The
Broken Idol,” “ Romeo and Juliet, JVlnch Ad t
About Nothing,” “As Yon Like It,” &c., &c.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE, JUNE 7th,
for Thirteen Weeks.
E
Sydney Bicycle Club.
[IFTH Annual Intercolonial Amateur Cham-
pion
BICYCLE and TRICYCLE RACE MEETING.
Under the Patronage and Rules of the N.S.W.
'Cyclists’ Union.
To he held at the N.S.W. Cricket Association
Ground, Moore Park, Sydney, N.S.W.,
On SATURDAY, 14th AUGUST, 1886.
Programme.
1. One Mile Maiden Bicycle Handicap, to be ridden
on roadsters. Minimum weight, 351bs.
2. One Mile Open Bicycle Handicap
3. One Mile Invitation Scratch Bicycle Raoe
4. Ten Miles’ Bicycle Amateur Championship of
N.S.W.—The Gardiner Cup
5. Two Miles’ Scratch Bicycle Race—The Millbrook
Challenge Cup „ ,
6. Three Miles’ Bicycle Handicap—The Ladles
Bracelets. Competitors Id this race must be
nominated by ladies
7. One Mile All Sohools’ Bicycle Handicap
8. One Mile Tricycle Handicap
9. 440 yards’ Handicap Foot Race.
THREE PRIZES IN EACH EVENT.
All events open to all Amateurs.
Entries close on Monday, 2nd August, at 9 o’clock
p.m., with the hon. sec., 297 George-street, Sydney,
from whom entry forms may be obtained.
J. WILKES, Hon. See.
ZERBINI QUARTETTE CONCERT.
(Messrs. Weston, Curtis, Zerbini, Reimers.)
Director Mr. T. H. Guenett.
Vocalist;
MADAME CHRISTIAN, R.A.M.
FRIDAY, JULY 16.
Under the patronage and presence of
His Excellency the GOVERNOR and LADY CAR-
LINGTON, aHdof the Premier and Members of
the Ministry.
The Concert will be given in the
Y.M.C. A. Hall,
on aeeount of its excellent aooustic properties.
Plan of seats now open at Nioholson’s. Reserved
Cnairs, ss; Gallery, 2s 6d. Commence at 8. Pro-
gramme on Thursday.
“ R. S. SMYTHE.
mHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
J SYDNEY BRANCHES:
64 PITT-STREET, and 538 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital...
Reserve Fund ..
£1,000,000
675,000
This Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.
FOLEY’S a SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
TNSTRUCTION sriven every day in Bozin*,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &c. For
terms, <fcc., apply to
H. M. CANSDELL,
Manager and Instructor.
m
ERCANTILE ROWING CLUB.
itron: His Excellency, Baron Carrington,
KC.M.G.. P C.;
President: The Hon. J. B. Watt, ML C.
The Committee of the above desire to intimate
that through the Mayor’s Ball having necessarily
been fixed for the 22nd instant, their
Eleventh Annual Ball,
under the patronage of the Worshipful the Mayor,
JOHN YOUNG, Esq.,
who, with the Lady Mayoress, has promised to be
present.
has been POSTPONED to, and will be held in the
TOWN HALL,
ON WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 3.
Tickets, limited, obtainable from members of
the committee Only.
R. A. KEDDIE, Hon- Treasurer.
W. A. BLACKSTONE, Hon. Secretary.
Telegraph Department.
IRBT ANNUAL CAVALRY TOURNAMENT
and MILITARY SPORTS,
to be held at the
AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY’S GROUNDS,
Moore Park,
On SATURDAY, AUGUST IiTH,
Under the distinguished patronage and presenoe
of the
Right Hon. BARON CARRINGTON, P.C..G C.M G
Commander-tn-Chief, and Hon. Colonel
Cavalry Forces.
And by special permission of Major-General
Richardson, C.B.
17 EVENTS,
Including Cavalry Jumping, lilting at the Ring,
Tent-pegging, Slicing Lemons, Mounted and Dis-
mounted Combats, Sword and Lance Exercises,
Musioal Ride, &0., Artillery Gun Competition and
Wheel Races, Infantry Bayonet Competition,
Naval Cutlass Exercises, Foot Racing. &c.
Entries for all events close on the 30th July.
For full particulars apply to
The Secretaries Cavalry Sports Committee,
17 O’Conn ell-street, Sydney
Eyhrybody i
SHOULD IJSBI
PEMET iX/S
extra superfine
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Min replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE la VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
IS GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
SSI George-street, Sydney.
gh
SINGER
and Go,’s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap.
JOHN DANKS,
363 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THB FRESH FOOD AND ICB OOMPANI
(Limited)
have Opened a
BRANCH DBPOT
AM
No. 23 Royal Arcade,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, Ac., with
light refreshments.
At this Br&noh, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Age Hoy for
" KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo-
nary complaints.
Fresh Food and fee Co., Limited,
Head Offloe.
Stables
Factory
•as
81 Harbour-street
Llverpool-atreet
Mlttagong.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, July 13, 18£6.
TBNDBRS for PUBLIC WORKS and SUP-
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Govbrnmsnt Gazbttb, a file of whies
Is kept at every Post Offloe in the colony.
Tenderers may be In attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, If possible, before tne
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken Into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
W The Government does not bind itself to aocept
the lowest or any tender.
Matur* of Worm and SuppUaa
Bates to irfcieli
Tenders can be
received *t
this offloe.
Ereetion of Pest and Telegraph
Office, Wee Waa
Erection of Stable, &o„ Po'ice
Buildings, Jerilderle
Additions, &c , Police Quarters,
Inverell
Station Master a House, Wara-
tah, Great Northern Railway
Piers for Aqueducts near Guild-
ford, Sydney Water Bupply
Supply of Overcoats for Rail-
way Guards,
Tuesday,
July 30, .
at 11 o’clock,
Repairs, old Courthouse, Dar-
linghurst
Tuesday)
July 27,
at, 11 o’clock.”
Erection of Station Buildings,
Michelago.Goulburnto Cooma
Rftilw&y
Construction of 130-ton Hopper
Barge, Dredge Servioe
Tuesday.
August 3,
at 11 o'clock"
Erection of Lock-up and Polio©
Barraoks, Uraila
Tuesday, i-
August 10.
at n o’olock.
w. J. I- YNB *


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre ROYAL—" Struck Oil” P. 8
Gaiety Theatre—” Pun on the Bristol ”... •>
Alhambra—Minstrelsy, Olio, and Faroe „
Royal Standard Theatre—” His Natural
Life ” „
Academy of Music. Federal Minstrels „
Lynch Family of Bellringers—Northern Tour „
The “Private Secretary” now occupies
the boards at Sydney Opera House, Mr. Frank
Thomton filling the part of that boneless, guile-
less curat?, Rev. Robert Spalding. So long as this
olerioal gentleman keeps sober, the success of the
piece seems certain, and we note with satisfaction
that he manifests no desire to pass the blowing
fowl—we mean the flowing bowl. His favourite
drink is the fruit of the cow, and as a precaution
against hunger he oarries in his pocket a fusty
orange and a dog-eared bath-bun. But, though
intensely amusing on the stage, we are positive
the world never did, and never will, produce such
a ourate. He has a complexion like that of the
white Soudan goat (now In Heaven). His whole
gable-end is whitewashed over with a touching,
soulful innooence that would charm a 10 per oenr.
rebate out of a bill-broking Canaanite; he is dadoed
three feet deep with simplicity and candour, and
literally steeped in sacred ignorance. In the
matter of meekness and patience, the patriaroh
who scraped himself with a broken saucer in the
land of Uz, was not a circumstanoe to him, and
unless Job is prepared to trump with his boils, Mr.
Spalding must win the trick. He is the image of
a gruel-fed clergyman, originally brought up on
the feeding-bottle, and he nas evidently never re-
covered from that early regimen.
■ ■ a
In strong contrast to the curate is Uncle
Cattermole, a mutton-headed thunderstorm, with
a shook of disorganised thatch, whose great desire
is that his nephew should “go it.” The young
man, however, has no ambition in that way, but
under pressure he makes a beginning by backing
a frlend’slbill—discounted by Jenkins-refusing to
pay his tailor, and “sassing ” his landlady. Find-
ing that stronger measures are required, he starts
for the country, where he intends to raise a crop
of irrigated vice, and in his absenoe his stormy
uncle falls upon the pap-reared ourate by mistake,
and makes that worthy man shake in his goloshes.
The way in which the parson throws his chances
away at this juncture, is simply maddening. We
ourselves were once encountered by an uncle who
mistook us for his long lost nephew. He was a
pawnbroker by profession, and was tearfully, sor-
rowfully drunk, but we improved the shining
hour by borrowing 30s. on our Waterbury, and
then embraced our new-found relative and left.
Mr. Spalding has a good show to borrow at least
£5OO from his temporary uncle, but he neglects
the opportunity until the mistake is discovered.
During the Interval, however, the curate's suffer-
ings are terrible. He is served with writs by a
misguided tailor; he is mistaken for a spiritualistic
medium, and when he asks for a ham sandwich
is supposed to be communing with the ghost of
departed pork; he is hidden under a table and
biffed on the heal with a prayer-book when he
tries to crawl out; he is crowded into a box and
sat upon, and when in despair he folds his martial
antimacassar around him and tries to sleep he is
taken for a spectre. When at last it is ascertained
that all this anguish is caused by the nephew's
frenzied determination to ” go it,” the uncle’s joy
knows no bounds, and he is last seen settling the
tailor's bill and acting tJie part of a beneficent
Providence as well as his enlarged liver will permit.
* * *
When Mr. Thornton starts to be a fool he
does it to perfection. The curate with the
goloshes and the bath-bun, as delineated by him,
i the most oolossal ass whom we have yet seen,
and every time Mr. Thornton acts the part he dis-
closes new and undreamt of capabilities for being
an ass which would have made the Soudan animal
die of envy. Mr. Harwood, as Uncle Cattermole,
is equally good. His favourite greeting of “ How’b
tout liver” strikes us as a remarkable instance of
refined courtesy, and his loud voioe is engaged in
a constant struggle to make itself heard above the
din of his still louder waistcoat. Among the other
performers, Mr. Palmer, as an inebriated but
«»hambitious" tailor, is about the best, though the
ladles also acquit themselves very well. It is a
cause for sincere thankfulness that there is
neither a dude nor a lap-dog in the piece, for pub-
lic interest in both these animals has long since
been worn down to a stump ; neither is there the
usual wioked man who folds his arms on the roof
of his chest and asks in hollow tones “ Is this to
be 1 ” nor the good man who squashes the aforesaid
sinner In the last aot like an over-ripe tomato.
And when we consider how many modern come-
dies are built chiefly on a superstructure of dude,
dog and tomato, it becomes easy to acoount for
the’evergreen popularity of ” The Private Secre-
tary ” Mr. Wm. A. Jenkins, too, displays his cus-
tomary ability as business manager, and any credit
not otherwise appropriated may be set down to
his acoount. „ _ „
#* * *
The Federal Minstrels at Sydney Academy
have adorned t?c»- programme with a number of
new items, soma very good, and others—well, the
less said about them the better. The sketch,
« Mary’s heard the News,” belongs decidedly to
the latter class, while the allegorical tableau repre-
senting N.S.W. dispensing succour to the survivors
of the Ly-ee-Moon disaster, holds a sort of middle
position. The colony iB depicted in the customary
Btyle-as an attractive young woman dressed in a
horse-blanket and a mosquito-curtain, a mode of
attire which seems rather cool in winter weather.
Possibly, however, she wraps a door-mat round her
shoulders when she does the block. We had a
little difficulty in making out some of the details
of the soene, but, as far as we could discover,
N.B.W. was standing up on a kitchen-table and
handing a pork-pi© to th© Ly>©B-Moon. Th©
exigencies of space made it necessary to sketch
the ship as about six times the size of the colony;
but, as the former was wrecked on but a small
fragment of N.8.W., this is probably a mere
poetic—or rather upholstery —license.
9 * *
The best and most successful feature of
the entertainment, however, is the burlesque,
«• struck Castor Oil,” an amusing parody on John
Stofel and his family, at the Royal. John is repre-
sented as a Dutch nigger, from Balmain; while
his wife is French, and his daughter (Air. Law-
ton) is terribly Irish. The head of the household
is a poor oobbler, who is striving hard to rear his
family on a pittance of £lOOO a year, and '.it is,
therefore, not surprising that he should fall into
the toils of Sneakin Fatter, a sleek Salvationist,
who wants to evade service in the police force.
He finally agrees to act as the latter's substitute,
and accepts his lOUfor3i. 61. (without endorse-
ment) which precious document he conceals by
leaving it on the hearth, and placing a dish-cover
on top. Bhortly after John joins the force, an
alarm is given that some larrikins are stoning a
yellow cat in Woolloomooloo, and in the riot that
ensues, the Dutch ” peeler ’’ receives injuries that
terminate in insanity. For 16 years he wan-
ders round Paddington and Woollahra with a
porous-plaster on his head, and indulges in the
pleasant dream that he is Jawbone Netid, and once
spoke for nine hours in the Assembly. Finally,
bewever, he is cured by a corn-doctor, and then,
hidden behind a towel-rack in his old cottage, he
listens to the exposition of the Salvationist's
villainy, until by the recovery and production of
the I O.U. for 3s. 61. he cover that wicked man
with well-merited disgrace.
** * *
The only new thing to announce about
” Struck Oil ” this weex is that it will be with-
drawn on Friday (to-morrow) night from the
Royal. The run has been a fine one. Mr. Wil-
liamson puts on no airs in oonssquenee of the suc-
cess, although it is understood that, in addition
to the talent he throws into the personation of
John Stofel, the quantity of genius he spread Over
the rest of the drama while it was being got read?
for the stage was more than considerable, Sam
Smith, the Californian miner, brought, it may
he remembered, the manuscript of " The
Heed, or Five Ferirs Away,” to Williamson
when he was at San Francisco. That MS.)
waa the basis. of “ Struck Oil." Foof Sam,
he retired with the wealth the yoUng actor
gave him. His after proceedings do not appear to
have risen to the dignity of history. In the
meantime, Clay Greene and the actor set to On
Sam’s germ and polished off the first two'acts of
the present play, and then the third act, whioh is
certainly the best, waa written by the actor solus.
It is John Cassius Williamson who tells these
things, and the stylus of our old friend Garnet
Waloh vouches for their veracity. In any case,
vale "Struck Oil I’* On Saturday night will be
produced “The Shadows of a Great City. Mr.
Shewell is the writer, and it has been fitted for
Sensational stage use by Mr. Joseph Jefferson.
** * «
Mr. tfoiia Brien Widow O’Sheridan has
added a few new attractions to his entertainment
at Sydney Gaiety. A number of new songs apppar
in the programme—or at least old ones white-
washed and brushed up, and they are really better
than the new. A prominent feature is supplied
by Mr. Gordon, who gives life-like Imitations of
several well-known actors. We would like to
furnish this gentleman with a valuable hint. We
had the pleasure, some years ago, of seeing one of
the characters whom he represented, inan entirely
novel role, whioh ended in his bruising a China-
man, pounding a policeman, and doing about ilo
worth of damage to a shop-window, and if Mr.
Gordon could put this episode on the stage,
it would certainly be a great attraction.
** * *
The new name seems to be a masootte to
the Sydney Princess Theatre, for the Buffaloes
always have good bis. on. Whllo there is sb muoh
change in the entertainment there need not be any
in the attendance, and if the attendance does not
change there is always sure to be plenty of ohange
in the treasury. Not content with walking, the
"ghost” at this establishment come up to the
scratch in waltz time on treasury-day. A new
programme introduced on Monday night helps
things to bubble along.
** * *
L'artiste n'a potyt de pays, or, to put it
another way, the’ 1 artiste is always at home. Of
political or physical geography he is profoundly
ignorant. The world is his oyster. He is the
biggest missionary of them all. Australian or even
Imperial Federation to him are questions c f no
import; intercolonial jealousies he cannot under-
stand ; he alone speaks the universal language, i t
is not surprising, therefore, that the Zerbini Quar-
tette concert, to be given on Friday evening, will
attract a crowded and fashionable attendance.
The audienoe, moreover, will be thoroughly re-
presentative, extending from Lord and Lady Car-
ington down to the smallest amateur fiddler, who
Will spend his last half-crown to go into the gallery
to hear the stringed quartettesof the great masters
rendered, as until now they have never been per-
formed in Australia. J. B. Zerbini, of the Monday
Popular Concerts, in Bt. James's Hall, London, will
be there ; Christian Reimers, violoncellist, and
spiritualist, himself possessed with the spirit of
Piatti, will perform on the king of instruments,
Beethoven, Mozart, Haydn, looking on from
Reimers’ “ distant heaven.” The vocalist will be
Madame Christian; the musical director and solo
pianist, Mr. T. H. Guenett; and the manager is
our old friend R. S. Smythe, who comes to us once
again with magnificent surroundings. As it is an-
nounced that the Hon. the Premier and the
Ministers are to be present at the Zerbiui Quartette
Concert, there must be no stonewalling next Fri-
day evening.
ft * ft ft
Miss Pattie Browne, who previously ap-
S eared in Sydney, in the " Queen’s Favourite,”
as just acoepted an engagement from Messrs.
Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove, and proceeds
to beautify the Sydney Theatre Royal stage, on
the 31st July. * # *
The May Family gave a successful concert
last Wednesday night in the Protestant Hall in aid
of the Ly-ee-Moon Fund.
** m »
Melbourne Opera House, after a week’s
interregnum, has re-opened under the old manage-
ment of Rtgnold and Allison. The attraction i 3
Miss Emllie Melville as Falka. Everybody has
seen “ Falka,” but nobody had seen the bewitch-
ing prints donna since Bhe departed for India’s
coral strand (and was stranded) two years ago.
Very melting stories had been whispered about
her altered aspect and impaired bronchial tubes.
It was even said that the lady had bidden a sad
adieu to the operatic stage, and that—like Coreze,
in “ Moths our nightingale would siDg no more.
Under these circumstances it was only to be ex-
pected that the reappearance of Mies Emelie would
fetch ’em. It did fetch ’em, and they will probably
continue to be fetched for some time to come.
The enchantress (our vocabulary will be exhausted
in a minute) has come back again, bringing her
sheaves with her and a few over. We don’t know
exaotly what that means. It is intended for jam.
Not quite as of old does Miss Melville sing,
but her voice can be trusted to come round
soon with a little coaxing. Such a divinity,
who can sing a bird off a tree, should
find no difficulty in coaxing anything round;
and not quite as of old does Miss Melville look.
No, there s the rub. Before that ill-starred Indian
trip, she looked a full 25. Now she isn’t a day
more than 18 and a half. The ravages of sickness
have taken somewhat from the roundness of her
cheek, but left her younger than ever. We
would ourselves willingly go through 13 fevers
on such delightful terms. But it’s impossible to
let off all our frenzy in mundane prose. We must
borrow Apollo’s lyre for one moment.
When, Emilie, thy fairy face-
illumined with its mystic grace—
Went with thee to another plsce,
Across the cruel main;
We languished—oh I a weary while;
Our day was dree, existence vile—
Now, ’neath the sunshine of thy smile,
We siog our songs again.
There are certain other changes in the “ Falka ”
cast, and takiog them in the lump, they are by no
means for the worse. The opera is running with
every whit as much go as ever.
* • ft *
The Faust Family are "somersaulting”
at Newcastle, and the local press is apparently
suffering from an attack of open-mouthed wonder.
. ..Mr. J. H- Deorwyn is, we are sorry to hear,
suffering from brain-paralysis A lady in the
dress-circle of Melbourne Royal fainted—splendid
ad. for the management—during a performance of
‘ His Natural Life.” She said she thought they
had killed Titheradge. Suoh a thought is sufficient
to make any girl faint right away.
The Sydney D.T. says:—“ The body of a
man, name unknown, was found dead in a pad-
dock at Alexandria yesterday.” It is always well
to be explioit, else people might have thought it
was only a stonewalling politician lying about
drunk.
Professor Anderson Stuart, M.D., is giving
instructive lectures to women on nursing and
other useful subjects. We mention this in the
hope—a vain, one possibly—that some society
females will for a moment forget their figures and
dresses and abominations of fashions generally,
and go and learn something that may make them
less utterly useless when, for some inscrutable
reason. Divine Providence makes mothers of them,
Instead of turning them Into sausage-meat.
The Victorian Legislature is now busy on
a bill concerning corpses, skeletons, and similar
cheerful subjscts. It appears that the Anatomy
Act has hitherto made it compulsory to bury ail
‘'subjects” within six weeks, and as a result the
Medical School has at times been rushed with
“ deaders,” while no w and then the professors could
not get anybody to cut-up for love or money. The
new measure gives them power to lay up the de-
parted in brine until wanted, and a vault is to be
constructed for the safe keeping of earned mur-
derers and piokled vagrants.
The Broken-hill smelters yielded last week
43 9160 Z silver.
“ The celebrated Sir Julius, of New Zea-
land, has been imported by Mr. James Robinson.
ofKiama. Now \thia Julius is a pig.” The other
Sir Julius isn’t. He is a Jewish gentleman.
The number of deaths occasioned by the
late volcanic eruption at Mount Tarawera is now
reported to be 111. It is thus evident that a hill
with a hole at the top can do more damage than
fifty Soudan Contingents.
Sir W. J. Clarke, we read, is showing in
Melbourne “ a canary whioh can utter 28 different
words.” The canary is now learning two more
words: “ Your lordship.”
All over the Western division of N.S.W.
the squatters are dismally howling about the times
and cutting down the wages of the rouseabouts
and the shearers, The reason of their dyspeptic
moaning, however, will be more dearly under-
stood that a good season is distinctly seen ap-
proaching, rain has been general and is still con-
tinuing, while the rivers are navigable again, and
it is anticipated the banks will take the earliest
opportunity of realising their long-standing ad-
vances and at the first chance kick the present
holders out. The squatters of the West are howl-
ing because a good season is coming. Poor devils I
In its New Guinea news thel Sydney D.T.
says:—“ Nicholas Minister, a notorious character,
half beche-de-mer fisherman and half buccaneer,
against whom a charge of robbery and piracy on
the high seas was lodged by Mr. Kissack, Captain
Thomson's partner at Teste, as well as of kidnap-
ping native women, has been required by the
High Commissioner to proceed to Oooktown and
meet his accusers there.” The SM. Herald of
the same date says that “ Mr. Nicholas, the minister
against whom charges of robbery on the high
seas,” Seo. We can hardly suppose that either Mr.
Nicholas, the minister, or Mr. Minister, the half
buccaneer, will accept the invitation to proceed to
Cboktown, but if he should do so there is room for
a profitable libel action somewhere. It is an
atrocious slander to describe a pirate as a person.
Last Sunday week something like £5OO
was raised in the Catholic churches of Sydney and
suburbs in aid of the fund called “ Peter’s Pence.’
1 he usual “ poor mouth ” petitions were put for-
ward by the pulpiteers, who drew heartrending
pictures of the poverty-stricken condition of the
present Pope, who, if one-half we heard were true,
would be the champion “ broker ”of the day. As
a matter of fact, however, Papa Leo XIII. is not
exactly on his pontifical “uppers” yet, for, in
addition to his many other little perks, he
draws the A.P&& EclesiasUoo, or ecclesiastical pat-
rimony, of £129.000 per annual from the Italian
Government. Each of the Cardinals has an annual
State allowance of £l2OO a year also, and this, with
the pickings derived from their respective offices,
enables them to keep the wolf from the door. We
doubt if the original Twelve ever held 500 pence
between them at any time— except when Judas
Iscariot clutched the 30 pieces of silver.
Bishop Linton, of Riverina, will be earning
a very full share of the pious hatred of his brother
clerics if he continues to act as he is reported to
have done lately. Wh n visiting at Silverton he
is said to have invited the resident clergy of each
denomination to take a hand in converting the
unregenerate miner. The affair came off in the
music-hall attached to one of the local hotels, and
all the clerics of the town were present except
the R.C. priest, who was unavoidably absent.
The Bishop's chaplain started business by reading
prayers, the Presbyterian minister followed with
the lessons, and then the Wesleyans and Bible
Christians had a show, the Bishop himself preach-
ing the sermon, It would make a hard-shell Angli-
can howl to hear of such clerical depravity, but
Bishop Linton did much worse than that. He-
listen ye bigoted ones of all denominations he
divided the collection, which was a very large one,
with his clerical brethren. If suoh things continue
to be done, there may as well net be any strife at
all between the different denominations, and as the
essence of modern piety consists in the consign-
ment of all the members of other sects to ever-
lasting hell, Bishop Linton must be regarded as a
mischievous heretic who would sacrifice his church
to the Gospel. And further, on going home from
that service the Riverina prelate is said actually to
have tried to assist a poor drunkard who was
lying in the gutter. Such conduct is unclerieal.
Dr. Linton should, like the Levite, have passed by
on the other side, and only have noticed the
drunkard for the sake of working in the old gags
about an awful example.
William Ewart Gladstone,
The “Grand Old Man.”
Serene and Steadfast at Seventy-seven.
Serene and strong the grand old statesman stands,
His foes defying;
Upon the people of the British lands
Wisely relying.
They tell us that the man is old and gray;
So are the mountains
Whose bald heads glisten with the silver spray
Of crystal fountains.
Dark clouds about the mountain-top may swim,
While peals the thunder;
But there it stands—a great, and gaunt, and grim
Eternal wonder.
The People's William knows his people well—
Yes, somewhat better
Than they can know themselves; so, truth to tell,
He’s not their debtor.
His domination fears no factions fight
Or coalition,
But hews its way with steady axe, in spite
Of opposition.
Though old in battles, on his sheathless brand
No stain of rust is;
With good old words he sways an anoient land—
Freedom and Justice.
If in need of a stimulant take Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
SOCIALITIES, ’£6, 18. (post Is. 31.) now ready.
150 illustrations. Have you seen the editions lor
’83, 84, and '85 ? Tnen you will be sure to buy the
present work I All booksellers. Alex. M Kinley
and Co., Sydney.
Marie Brizard i
KISMET.
Dark care sat on the merchant’s brow,
His step was sad and slow,
In agonising pain he paced
His study to an fro.
No words escaped his trembling lips,
But many a sigh and groan
Betrayed the bitter grief he felt
To see his hopes o’erthrown.
His lifework haa been all undone
By one disastrous blow—
A bankrupt he, his stock bought up
By Summerfleld and Co.
’Twas bought for less than half its cost,
And seDt out here by mail.
To be sold cheap by Summerfleld,
At their great bankrupt sale.*
Wolfe's Schnapps has often been pirated,
but has never had a rival.
B
ADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY :
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
Full suites for dining-room.—side*
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, aU
to match.
CHP
lHj
Sideboards of modern
designs and various dimerii
sions, in OAK, MAHOGANY,
WALNUT, ASII, and CEDAR,
A large selection, at all
pricos.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and.
LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.,
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably Up*.
holstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton*
and Lamb.
13
o K PIANOFORTE,
guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable,
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brilliant,
tone, in handsome ease.
Free at rail or wharves foff
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMI OUTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Injmense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &c. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell and
Spring Streets.
dfg
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vai’i
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell and Spring
Streets.
HIFFONIER WHATNOTS, effective
Large choice. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
TE
r~r~Yi
Drawing room cabi.
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
DRAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s. 6cl. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
hdf
WrALNUT REVOLVING
BOOKSTANDS, 2,3, and L
tier —a desideratum for the Barris
ter’s Chamber, Judicial Bench
Library, Drawing-room, or even the
Bedroom. Very handy—especially
so for the Invalid Reader.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, New designs covered to order in
any material. '
gh
Revolving show
STANDS,
for the advantageous display of
Woollens,
Grocers’ Samples, or
Fancy Goods.
Everything is well exhibited,
and any single article can be
conveniently handled without
disturbing another.
■ Bradley, Newton, add Lamb.
SELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH, for
INVALIDS and-MEDICAL MEN.
OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
dfgh
Bedsteads, ail sizes,
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Importers,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
—* —— '
df
SPRING MATTRASSES
Woven Wire, best
make; also, Spiral Springs.
Price, from 14s. each.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6A.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 10s.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3105.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.;
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
BRADLEY, NEWTON and T LAMB.


One Virtue Left.
SIRENREE (soliloquises): "YES, ‘REMEMBER THE SABBATH DAY TO KEEP IT HOLY THAT’S ABOUT THE ONLY COMMANDMENT LEFT NOW FOR MY CROWD TO
TRAVEL UPON.”


A Magnificent Goldfield.
THE NEW AUSTRALIAN ELDORADO.
Advices from Kimberley, Western Australia,
grow more and more confusing. We hear:—(l).
“There are nuggets there as large as hen’s eggs”;
(2). “ There are no eggs there”; (3). "There is only
one hen on the goldfield”; (4). "There are twice
as many hens as nuggets.” Wnat, in the name of
the Federal Council, are we to believe? Then
again, we see, in the Silver Age, reports tele-
graphed by two trustworthy experts dispatched
specially to examine the field: -"Latest news says
first patches washed out. No field found.— David
Collie.” “No fresh news from diggings, no gold
having been brought in during the last four
weeks. Strongly advise people not to come. I
positively assert that the
whole field has not pro-
duced 9000z.—1. J. K.
Conn.” These latter
statements have at least
the merit of being the
result of a careful ex-
amination made by prac-
tical men who have
neither land nor cattle to
sell, stores to dispose of
at famine prices, broken-
down spavined horses to
trade off in exchange for
the shekels of confiding
greenhorns, nor “ valu-
able ” mining properties
—consisting of a hole in
the ground and a melan-
choly windlass with a
greenhide bucket hang-
ing from a rotten rope—
to float off into limited
liability swindles. But,
depressing as these re-
ports are, Mr. Conn’s
later advices are even
worse. He landed at
Derby en route for the
goldfield—that is to say,
he was put ashore on a
mudbank, and waded
through a mile and a-half
of swamp before reach-
ing the town. The tide
at this place has a rise
and fall of 38 feet, which
makes the shipping busi-
ness decidedly precari-
ous. Derby he found to
consist of a few wooden
buildings, chiefly stores
and hotels. It is sur-
rounded by bottle-trees—
a species which only
seems to flourish near
pestilential swamps—and
the temperature averages
100’ in the shade. And the
goldfield itself is non eat;
prospectors who go to
this fever-den “will re-
quire to find not only the
gold, but the field for
themselves ” The region
was evidently designed
by a far-seeing Provi-
dence as a receptacle for
bank - defaulters and
Y.M.C.A swindlers, but
an obstinate and pig-
headed generation per-
sists in calling it a mine
of wealth, and acts ac-
cordingly. Ordnary pru-
dence should have led the
prospectors to send at
least one valueless so-
ealled “ Christian ” on
ahead to test the climate,
but they neglected this
precaution, and many
good white men are likely
to find their graves at
Kimberley in oon s e-
quence. Out of one party
of 110 men, 30 died in
North-west Australia in a
year.
The little island of
Arran is to have a float-
ing kirk moored in Lam-
lash Bay. Any soul that
seeks to be saved will
have to be pulled on
board from the shore in
a small boat, when the
hells chime at tne kirk’s
masthead. The United
Presbyterians are going
to—practically as well as
figuratively—float this
novel gospel show. Ser-
vice will, no doubt, be
conducted every Sunday
in nautical style. The
parson will preach from
the rigging in fine
weather, and a slush-
bucket will be passed
round in lieu of a plate.
The harmonium, or the
baßjo, or whatever musi-
cal instrument may be in
use, can be conveniently
placed aft of the pulpit
bulkhead, and the kirk
session will bale out the
chureh every Saturday,
so as to make it dry and
.comfortable. They can’t
pray on terra Urma be-
cause the sole proprietor
of the island disapproves
of the denomination. The
proprietor of Arran is his
Grace the Duke of Hamil-
ton. United Presby-
terians may not be the
most lovable sect under
the sun, but the mon-
strous injustice of the
treatment to which they
are subjected is none the
IeBS apparent. The
brawny Dook of Hamil-
ton is a beauty to have
the supreme sovereignty
over saints or snivellers.
In gospel matters his
tastes must be especially
superior. The career of
this lord of the soil has
been one long chapter of
folly. As a young man
he embarassed himself
by losses on the turf,
but got out of the hands
of the Jevs through
the accidental discovery
of a flaw in the deed of
entail which gave him
unrestricted ownership
over every acre, stone,
and stick of the Hamil-
ton possessions. (This
discovery has since been
turned to good account. Something like a quarter
of a million was realised by the sale of the Hamilton
Palace pictures and library some three years ago).
CocK-flghting and “ scrapping ” are the chief ducal
dissipations. Let us give him his due—he fights
well, and used to fight often. Perhaps he has
sobered do wn since his marriage. The Duchess of
Hamilton—daughter of a large landed proprietor
in Queensland, his Grace of Manchester—is well
suited to her lord. She was being shown round
Hamilton’s sporting retreat at Newmarket just
prior to her marriage, when the advisability of
pulling down some old barns was mooted. “ Don’t
puli them down,” said the blushing bride-elect,
“I like a day s ratting just as much as the Duke.”
The cQaraeter of the man might have been judged
from his selection of a wife, quite apart from his
public exhibitions of brainless vulgarity. Two
more little family reminiscences. The father of
this present Duke of Hamilton was not so happily
wedded as his son. His own footman was a too
successful rival of hi s. The late Duke of Hamil-
ton was escorting a demimondaine down some
stairs at the Palais ttoyal when he fell and broke his
neck. His Grace was drunk at the time. Only a
short time previously he had insured his life for au
immense sum just by way of a j )ke. It isn’t
necessary to dive any deeper into the pedigree of
the man who f orbids a certain church to be erected
on tbe Isle of Arran. If he were the mo3t worthy
creature that breathed, that chance circum-
stance would in no wav lessen the iniquity of his
position as seignior. As we have pointed out, the
Hamiltons are of a kidney with the Nawcastles, of
wnom we treated the other week. What matters?
These things are part of the Eaglish soclalsyst9m.
Yirtue in ducal families detracts from their great-
ness rather than otherwise. Observe. Hamilton
After the Service.
PRIMATE BARRY: “D-D FUNNY, ISN’T IT?”
“Darned.”— ED. B.
is a peer of England, Scotland, and Prance. When
this ignorant low-lived son of a debauched father
and disgraced mother married a young woman
who adores ratting, cannon were fi ed in three
countries in celebration of tha glorious event.
Such are the people who are maintained by the
Primrose League.
The members of the N.S.W. Drink Com-
mission consist of grog-men and teetotal faddists,
and are on the whole a queer lot of people. The
first question put the other day to Dr Maurice
O’Connor, who, as medical officer of Darlmghurst
prison, has an unrivalled experience in the treat-
ment of alcoholism, was: "Doesat the human
brain consist of phosphorised fat? ”
It requires real genius to introduce soul-
stirring humour into a municipal bye-law re the
disposal of defunct goats, but the Newcastle
(N.S.W.) Council have managed to do it. In that
town “any person who shall cast any rubbish,
dead animal or animals, with the intent of drowning,
into any public water-course,” is liable to a line,
but apparently he may throw in dead animals to
any extant, provided he does not wish in so doing
to asphyxiate the departed over again. But
a still choicer item appears in the building regula-
tions If any person iu Newcastle starts to erect
a building without giving due notice, he may “be
summoned before any justice of the peace who
sh»il be liable ” for a daily penalty varying from £2
to £lO until the law is complied with. It must be
ruinous to be a J.P. in Newcastle, since any one of
the fraternity may be let in for paying £7O a week
because some vindictive citizen chooses to break
the law. Surely there cannot be another place on
the face of this earth where an offender is hauled
up and then the presiding beak has to pay the fine. 1
It all reminds us of Wouter van Twiller, the
Knickerbocker magistrate who, when two persons
came before him with a dispute as to acoounts,
always ordered that all the aooount-books in the
case should be put together and then divided
equally between the parties, and that the constable
should pay the costs.
Rats are plentiful already at the alleged
Kimberley goldfield. This decides us; we are off
because we know we can get good soup there.
Tweoty odd years ago we landed at Dunedin en
route for the diggings, and stayed at a restaurant
infested with diggers and crowded with rats. The
soup at that establishment was delicious. It was
chicken-soup every day—so at least we judged
from the nice little bones we found on our plate.
One morning we got up earlier than usual, owing
to loss of sleep caused by the resident rodents
having a quadrille party all night in our bedroom
We strolled into the backyard, and what do you
think we saw ? Four-and-twenty big rats lying in
a row, with their heads cut off. They were laid
out on a clean plank alongside the slush-drain, and
their blood was flowing down the channel to the
bay. They had all been eaught in traps, as was
evident by their bruised and broken limbs. We
pondered long and wonderingly on what might be
the meaning of this cut-throat exhibition, but gra-
dually we worked out tbe problem and under-
stood the mystery. That day we sat in the crowded
dining-room, with a plate of untasted soup and a
clean spoon before us, and watched with eager
curiosity the hungry miners devour the liquid,
and, like Oliver Twist, ask for more. In the
afternoon we rolled up our swag and started for
the Dunstan. Since then we have never been able
to look a rat’s tail in the tip without blushing.
Messrs. Crooks and
Wilson, the Adelaide bank
cherubim, are having the
path of sorrow strewn
with roses for their
special benefit. In some
civilised countries that
we know of this preoious
pair would have been
started oif long ago to
chum in with the repent-
ant thief—or more pro-
bably with the other
thief who did not repent.
In Mexico, for instanoe,
they would probably
have been requested to
climb a tree by their
necks, or at least have
been sentenced to work
in prison until their de-
falcations were made up
—a nasty way these
Aztecs have of turning
the east wind on the
shorn financier. But they
do things differently in
Australia. Crooks and
Wilson have been ad-
judged bankrupts, but by
continually adjourning
the insolvency proceed-
ings it is rendered neces-
sary to keep them i.i
comfortable quarter*
close at hand, instead of
sending them to pound
blue-metal at the Stock-
ade. The former was
recently visited by a holy
“• pal,” who was desirous
of administering spiritual
—or perhaps spirituous-
comfort to the prisoner,
and the much-anointed
swindler informed hia
friend that he had not
been so happy or so fre i
from mental worry for
years. A few of his vic-
tims are now in the lunt-
tic asylum, but that does
not interfere at all with
his tranquil enjoyment.
The convicted gospel-
shark in South Australia
appears to live in the
odour of sanctity and
stewed oysters, washed ■
down with hock aDd
over-proof holiness. Yet
these, according to many
of our church friends,
are the sort of men they
boil down in the gildeu
hereafter to make in'o
potted angel or corned
seraphim.
There are evidently
a number of religion 1
men in Sydney who hav .•
no appreciation of th
dignity of art, if we may
judge by the following
in the S.M. Herald:—
“ Applications to paint a
three-quarter-sized por-
trait of the Kev. G. r.
Macarthur are invitee,
and will be received b>
the undersigned on < r
before the 13th Ju 1 >
next.—J. A. Dowling, 11
Hunter-street.” Frol -
ably the Vandal who in-
serted this item among
the tenders for hous< -
painting, paper-hanging.
and the like, had no idi a
of the sacrilege he wts
committing, but we
grieve to find there io
one living beiDg who
would thus biff the god-
dess of genius and i -
spiration on the nose by
means of a three-anc-
sixpenny advertisement.
The man who would send
in his tender for white-
washing three-quartei s
of a parson is unworthy
of the name of an artfi t.
Besides, there are many
difficulties to be con-
sidered, and thoße frienos
who have fixed their de-
sires so ardently on the
possession of a painted
clergyman have appar-
ently overlooked them
They do not give the r. i-
mensions of the uj-
painted shepherd, so it is
impossible to tender lor
him by the square fom;
nor do they mention ho*'
many coats of colour he
is to receive, or whether
they wish t* have him
varnished, grained, d.s-
tempered, frescoed, nr
treated with a strict re-
gard to aerial perspective.
Nothing is said either
about finishing him off
with a dado moulding,
but as that does not coma
within the soope of tne
painter and decorator,
the point may be dis-
missed without furtner
comment. Probably the
intention is that the
reverend gentleman
should be tendered lor
at so much a quarter, as
if he were mutton, but
unfortunately there Is no
standard price for paint-
ing a hind-quarter of
lamb, so the problem re-
mains as unsolvable as
before.
One of the Maoleay (N.S.W.) papers has a
natural gift of apology, which other journals only
acquire by long practice. Having alluded t > a
rival as “a senile apology for a newspaper” it now
repents and explains that it did not mean to say
such a thing. It only wished to point out that t tie
paper in question was “not a newspaper at all but
merely a second-hand placard.” Friends will
please accept this intimation. He then alludes te
the hostile editor as a “ miserable forlorn relation
of the Tasmanian Devil;” “ au impertinent larri-
kin who is afraid of his own flapdoodle;” and “an
individual who is so deficient in brains as to be
unable to write a coherent handbill for a hawker.”
As this is an apology we would be glad to know
what the original libel was like.
The satest and surest of regulating tonics
Wolfe’s Schnapps.


“ Under instructions from Messrs.
Pavitt, Croke, R«.«ssa and Ford—under
the same inspiration which doubtless
prompted his memorable action in the
New Hebrides matter —Sir Patrick Jen-
nings explained bis devotion to the union
between Great Britain and Ireland, and
the need for a sentiment, of nationality in
the latter place.’*- Melbourne AKGUfi.
Editor Maddon's Picture of tho “Foreign Policy” of Now South Wales.


“Representative” Australians.
“TRUE PATRIOTS WE; FOR, BE IT UNDERSTOOD,
WE LEFT AUSTRALIA FOR AUSTRALIA’S GOOD.”
GEORGE BARRINGTON (Revised).
“Sir Samuel Wilson has been returned for Portsmouth, and Mr. Henniker Heaton for Canterbur y-both in the Tory interest ."-Cablegrams.


The Pillory for the Saints.
I The pillory has died, and the cat-o’-nine-tails has
survived in N.S.W., but no one seems to know the
reason why. The former was regarded as a valu-
able mode of moral suaßion by the collective w s-
dom of England two centuries ago, and it was
frequently used in those days as a means of con-
veying enlightenment to the minds even of the
upper classes; while the cat, which also flourished
in the dark ages, served chiefly to admonish t e
mediaeval larrikin, and appealed to the finer in-
stincts of the early English pickpocket or horse-
thief. But of late years the range of punishment
has been greatly narrowed almost all over the
world, and as a result* it frequently happens that
offences are committed for which the cnmina
codes provide no adequate penalty. The Otto-
mans, in bygone times, evolved an ingenious mode
of execution by which the transgressor was cut off
across the waist, and his upper and more sinful,
end kept alive afterwards for about 15 minutes by
being fixed on a plate of red-hot iron ; the ancient
Persians wiped out the particularly atrocious
criminal by smothering him slowly with ashes, or
having him eaten alive by flies-a process which
sometimes spread over a week or more ; the Ser-
vians have broken murderers on the wheel even
within the last 30 years ; but all these processes
have vanished along with the pillory, and are used
no more. But as a deterrent or curative mode of
punishment, the pillory has much to recommend
it which these other systems lacked. Even the
Turkish device alluded to could not compare with
it for experience proved it to be impossible to
create a moral reformation in a man’s stomach
when detached from his legs, or to lead his legs to
repentance apart from his “ uppers.” The pillory
in its mildest form meant punishment by disgrace
and exposure, and for that reason it was suited to
a class who cannot be adequately punished
by any system now in vogue. Solitary con-
finement is the great weapon of the law at the
present day, and the case of Edward Holt
Bhows, in a striking manner, how brutal and
useless it is when applied indiscriminately
Like flogging, it is, in many cases, used for the
purpose of “ bringing prisoners to their senses,”
and it has driven Holt out of his, a result which
the “ barbarous ” pillory might never have ac-
complished. The latter instrument has no rival
as a punishment for the fraudulent insolvent, and
the smug saint—for such men as Crooks, the Ade-
laide bank-hypocrite, and his reptile coadjutor
Wilson; for Walker, late of the Adelaide Young
Men’s Christian Association, and all the rest of the
holy tribe who rob in the name of the God of
Israel. It would have been found admirably suited
too, for the Calvinistic saints who “ managed ”
• he'city of Glasgow Bank, and who plundered the
widow and the orphan during the six days of the
week while they snuffled prayers and doxology on
the seventh; and even Holt, who apparently has
never pretended to holiness, might show his 18*
carat crown of martyrdom in it to more advantage
than in his lonely cell at Parramatta. To the
pious swindler of the present day it is often
actual relief to hide himself in a prison until his
crime is forgotten, and the mere punishment of
confinement is far less to be dreaded than that of
exposure, with an enraged crowd to look on and
heap curses and execrations, to say nothing of
mud and rotten eggs, upon one’s dishonoured head.
The 13 months “ solitary ” which is attached to so
many sentences shows clearly that imprisonment
alone is not efficacious, and yet in such cases as
that of Holt this “humane” dodge proves at once
barbarous and useless. The pillory, too, would
suit both the fraudulent banker and the Woolloo-
mooloo larrikin; it would have almost equal
terrors for the street ruffian and the pious Gospe
thief. Or if it were deemed absolutely necessary
to make a distinction between the two classes, we
might reach the degraded man through his feel-
ings by means of exposure, and the degraded
beast through his hide by means of the lash; but
80 long as the oat survives it is utterly illo-
gioal and absurd that the pillory should be
abolished. It stood in beauty side by side
with the triangles in the early days of N.8.W., and
in the pages of Barrington, the English pick-
pocket and Australian historian, we read how
criminals were placed in it with their ears nailed
to the cross-beams prior to being sent to serve
their country at Norfolk Island or YanDieman’s
Land. There are no lack of ears to-day that
deserve to be nailed to the self-same place and the
nails to fasten them there are not wanting. If the
triangles and the gallows and solitary confinement
are to survive in these colonies and if the coming
generation is to grow up beneath their grateful
shade, as the Jews did under the fig-tree and the
vine, then the pillory is wanted to make the
system complete. The enormously-increasing
tribe of canting stealers shows that no penalty
lias been yet devised which will keep the
saints of Australia in the narrow path, and
it might be well to consider if, in their
treatment of unclean holiness, our ancestors
■were not, after all, wiser than we. if brutal
punishments are to survive, let us use them dis-
criminatingly. Let us, if you will, have solitary
confinement and low diet for the savage un-
manageable ruffian who kicks the gaol-warder;
but do not let us send a man with a broken body
and a broken mind and a long sentence, to mutter
curses in a dark cell. Let us, by way of ex-
periment, put into the pillory the next saint
whom we catch robbing in the name of the Lord.
The only pretext for putting a non-refractory
prisoner into solitary confinement is that it “ gives
bim time to think;” but we’re ready to bet that
Saint Crooks or Saint Walker would be able to
think more wholesomely in the pillory under a
shower of old eggs in five minutes than he would
think in solitary confinement in 10 years.
Haw!.—The Primrose League.
I4FE in this world would be apt to degenerate into
dreariness were it not often relieved by a con-
templation of the egregious folly and littleness of
meagre minds. Tne men, therefore, who act the
clown’s part on the stage of life are frequently
unconscious and unintentional benefactors of
their lellows. Ergo, the Rev. Canon Kemmis,
“Vieah” of St. Mark’s, Darling Point, Sydney;
Mr. F. Bevill, M.A., and the Rev. W. A. Glasson
are* all public benefactors, for they are helping
to plant in Sydney a “ Habitation” of the Primrose
League. It is not definitely stated 'whence the
yearn emanated to cause a demand for the kind of
thing which the aesthetic and eloquent *' vicah,”
the uuoesthetic and portly schoolmaster, and the
enthusiastic Glasson are flinging around in so reck-
less a manner. The Conservative Association of
Mutual Marmaladers, otherwise known as the
Primrose League, in England, is a species of ma-
terialised hysteric, an incorporated snuffle, a
crysta'lised scream. It is a frill clandestinely
pinned on the coat-tail of politics, and has as much
to do with their course as a High Church vicar’s
biretta with everlasting salvation—as much, hut
certainly not more. Men of thought and action
view its proceedings with derisive contempt; the
very party which it aspires to uphold spurns
it with scorn. The League aspires to sustain
the Constitution with a scent-bottle; to repel the
people with a primrose and a faint cough. And at
the foundation of the organization, if there can
be any foundation to a castle of straw, there is in
England unlimited snobbery and unbounded
affectation. Lady Moneygrubber, whose husband
made a huge fortune by faking army-contracts,
joins because she will then be able to sit at the
elbow of the Countess of Cadshire; and Bridget
O’Hoolagan, cook to the aforesaid Moneygrubber,
pays her five shillings that she may be in “ the
society wid the missus”; and Mary Ann the nurse-
maid pays the same amount that she may be “in
the same society wid Biddy the ugly ould cook,”
and thus the League manages to increase its mem-
bership. It is mainly an institution of snobs, run
by help of the snobs’ servant-girls. But there is
an odour of refinement about it; and just as the
disinfectant sprinkled in a reeking gutter over-
powers for a time the native effluvium of the
noisome mass, so the aroma of “gentility ” strives
to neutralise the offensiveness of the elements
over which it is spread. Ladies of wealth and
position, tithe-fattened parsons who follow the
meek and lowly One in a coach and four, and
would-be aristocrats, who have just emerged from
a pawn-office, or butter-packing shop, are the
prominent members, and the sinews of war are
drawn from cads in the kitchen, and patriots in
pluih. The Mutual Marmaladers affect titles.
“ Knights ” and “ dames ” are created at a cost of
something like five shillings; other dignities
are granted at fixed rates, and these en-
noblements all help to enrich the League’s
Treasury, in the same way that the baronetcies
which James I. sold, supplied him with the means
of gratifying his royal whims. But it is time to
come to the Sydney imitation of this gorgeous
wen on the neck of fl unkeydom. From a printed
circular we learn that this choice exotic brought
out from England by the Imperial Osborn to be
planted in Australia, “ will contemplate no concern
with local party politics.” The terms of this de-
claration are not exactly clear, for it is difficult to
understand how the League can “ contemplate ” a
“concern” with anything, but we presume that
this is the expression of an intention to avoid dis-
cussion of local politics. The League is entirely
foreign, and its business is equally so. All that it
asks of Australia is a sufficiency of flunkeys to
keep it going and pay the expenses of the show.
We do not for a moment doubt that these latter
will he forthcoming. Tne League in Australia, as
in England, will be an asylum for the socially
destitute. In the future, every Potts Point aris-
tocrat whose grandmather or grandfather was a
oonvict ; every rich young lady whose father
achieved opulence by means of a lucrative con-
nection with sly grog-selling; every man or
woman whose reputation is clouded by recent pro-
ceedings in the Divorce Court; in fine, every
wealthy snob who for any reason finds himself or
herself unable to obtain admission to “sassiety,’’
will join this League in the hope of making it a
stepping-stone to the mansions of the fashionable.
After all, Mr. J. L. Osborn, the missionary of Eng-
lish political aestheticism, knew what he was about.
He brought out the banner, trusting to
Sydney to supply flunkeys enough to march
after it, and he will not be disappointed.
The aims of the League are stated with a wide
generality that means anything or nothing, with a
strong bias.in favour of the latter. In religious
matters “all bigotry and intolerance,” are to be
avoided. But how, oh Reverends Kemmis and
Glasson, can you belong to suoh an organisation ?
Do not your Articles and your creeds affirm that all
persons who worship not, or believe not, in
accordance therewith, without doubt shall perish
everlastingly ? How then can you—prof essing doo-
trines which pull the Anglican up to Heaven with
one hand and push all other worshippers down to
Sheol with the other-adhere to your own faith,
and be aught else than bigoted and intolerant ?
Either you are not Anglicans, or else you are-
well, you can guess the other alternative. But
the League is to “ endeavour to grapple success-
fully with the atheism of the present day.”
“ Grapple successfully ” with it ? In other words,
the crowd of brainless dolts and doltesses
whose flve-shillingses are now to be raked
in, are about to bolt a door with a
boiled carrot, and stop a whirlwind with
pageantry and primroses. The concluding para-
graph of this gorgeous oircular deserves quota-
tion in full. It runs thus :
“In secular matters, the Primrose League ad-
vocates the maintenance of the Constitution, tne
Imperial ascendency of England in the Councils ot
Europe, and the guarantee to every man of his own
property."
In their fervid desire for the maintenance of the
Constitution, the leaguers are intensely Conserva-
tive, but they have a bold Radicalism in their
spelling. When, we would ask, did “ ascendancy ”
first acquire an “e” in the penultimate ? In the
last-named object, the securing of his own pro-
perty to everyone, we are heartily with the Prim-
rose people, if they really intend what the words
mean. Land, the property of the people, has been
for too long monopolised in England by the
wealthy, and usually corrupt few. The present
English system enables one man to grab a
whole county, worth millions, and out of the
revenue derived therefrom he pays a few fawn-
ing, loafing Anglican parsons to swear that he
shuts out the many from their just inheritance
by force of an inalienable because divine right.
If Mr. Osborne and his colleagues aspire
to break down the national system which results
in the direct and impious robbery of the toiling
millions, The Bulletin is with them; but we do
not suppose that they have any such intention.
I Their very Conservatism is a guarantee that they
mean to take no steps towards dethroning
the vast category of ancient abuses, or re-
pressing the crimes, of the English social
system. These cultured clerics and b augbty
aristocrats of Potts Point possibly admire the
laws which in England enable a vicah who is
also a J.P. to sentence a man to six months for
staying hunger’s pangs by taking a hare in the
grounds of the land-monopoliser by whom this
vicar was appointed, and on whom he also lives-
These aristocratic political farceurs possibly love
the national system which deprives millions of the
opportunity of earning an honest living, and the
meets the theft of a green turnip with a sentence
of six months’ hard labour. These are social
conditions and incidents which the British Conser-
vatives form Primrose Leagues to sustain, and
these are the national cancers they would seek to
inflict upon Australia. For one reason we are
glad to notice that a Primrose Habitation has been
started in Sydney. It must necessarily be a para-
dise for snobs, a nirvana for wealthy flunkeys
and by scanning the list of members we shall be
able the more easily to identify the representatives
of these two classes. It would be too much to say
that none who do not belong to either order will
be " knights” and “ dames,” but those who are not
snobs or flunkeys will be almost bereft of congenial
companions when they sit with a crowd of their
fellow members.
A Moslem Grievance.
Religious equality appears to be rather at a dis-
count in Victoria, and a small handful of Mel-
bourne Mohammedans are sitting down sadly to
inquire of each other, in various Asiatic lan-
guages, if things are really what they seam or if
visions are about. A few days ago these pilgrim
strangers desired to celebrate the feast of “Id,
and applied in due form to a Government official
for permission to assemble in one of the public
parks. Tnis the hon. Jaok-in-office contemp-
tuously declined to grant, and, consequently, the
observances had to be performed on a piece of
waste land on the St. KUda Road, to the Rreat
entertainment of a crowd of deranged larrikins,
who watched the proceedings. Why the Moslem
should be treated with so much less consideration
than the Salvationist does not exactly appear.
The former is a peaceful citizen, who expects to
have 72 wives when he goss to Heaven; the latter
is a very noisy one, whose great aim appears to be
to bang on 72 big drums while here on earth. The
religion of the followers of the Prophet is a very
quiet and unassuming one, while that of their
rivals is composed mainly of banjo, collec-
tion - plate* hallelujah, and hell-flre. The
Mohammedan prays five times a day, but
he does not hail his deity as if the latter were
perched on the main-royal in a howling north-east
gale, while he is trying to make himself audible
from underneath six feather beds at the bottom of
the hold. In fact he very often satisfies himself
with merely writing his devotions on a sheet of
foolscap, anl then carries the dog-eared prayer
about in his pocket for weeks afterwards until it
is impregnated with the odour of sanctity and
long-cut Turkish. He does not lie awake on his
stomach all night either, trying by the aid of a
tallow candle to devise some new form of cussed-
ness by which he will next day persuade a whole
suburb that a murderer, a lunatic, and five hydro-
phobic dogs are on the loose, when after all it is
only one bilious sinner trying to repent; nor does
he perform scriptural sand-jigs on the boards of his
third-floor-backbedroom.or put his head out of the
window in the small hours of the morning to
hail the passing policeman and enquire if
he has found the Lord. He does not empty halle-
lujah slops from his window either, on the heads
of unoffending passers-by, as one Salvationist re-
cently did, and then explain at the police-court
that he was praying at the time, and was conse-
quently not accountable for his aetlons; nor has
he a divine mission which leads him to play wild
Oriental jokes on unfortunate invalids, by strik-
ing up his tuneful jawbone beneath their win-
dows. Yet his rivals with the big drum and the
war whoop do all these things; and in addition,
I they publish a newspaper, and scalp the bleeding
ipectre of Dr. Watts, by producing in its columns
original “ poems ” which, for sentiment and feel-
ing, compare very badly with a mortgage deed or
an Insolvency Act, and no one seems to interfere
much with their proceedings. The Salvationists
warfare with the devil may, of course, be very in-
teresting to the combatants, but in a fight where
both sides seem about equally respectable we pre-
fer to howl for the dog that is undermost; and
moreover, it appears absurd to spend so much
effort to wipe out the flre-and-brimstone man,
if he is to leave the Salvation Army behind
to carry on his business. The Moslems have
a devil also, but he is a quiet and playful
animal with only one horn and a short
tail, and he does not seem to have that bad habit
of stirring up sinners with a red-hot fork which
marks his Christian brother, so it is quite unne-
cessary to get up military demonstrations against
him. For the present, however, it appears that
the peaceful Asiatics must take a back seat, for
the men with the Bible and the banjo seem to have
both the law and the profits on their side. This
state of things, however, cannot last for ever.
Christian morals have sunk so low in Australia
that nothing short of wholesale conversion to a
new faith can redeem the character of the colo-
nists, and having sampled a large number of care-
fully bottled creeds, we unhesitatingly pronounce
that of the Prophet to be the best. In the
seven-storied Moslem hell, the basement floor
—where the heating apparatus is kept—is spe-
cially reserved for hypocrites, and a religion
which plants gentlemen of that class in the imme-
diate vicinity of the stoke-hole is peculiarly
adapted to this country. Moreover, the Young
Men’s Mohammedan Association does not turn out
an annual crop of swindlers as does its Christian
prototype; nor do Mohammedan larrikins loaf at
every street-corner, and send forth their playful
howl and oath to the breeze; the followers ot the
A.rab sage are not picked up drunk from tne
gutter and run in by orthodox policemen; and
there is something in his creed wnieh keeps the
Moslem from snuffling piety abroad and pounding
his wife at home We are glad to observe, there-
fore, that the Faithful at Melbourne are about to
import a Moiiah from India with a view to ~
ing their doctrines, and if we can help the holy
man in the work of introducing some kind of real
religion for the first time into Australia, our
services are entirely at his disposal.
THIS WICKED WORLD.
They have nicknamed the Pall MAJi
Gazette the “ Small. Gal Gazette —The Grand
Duke Vladimir, of Russia, visits England to see
whether he will do as a husband for Princess
Louise of Wales. ...At an aristocratic concert at
Westminster, Madame Albani threatened twice to
stop singing unless the Dukes and Duchesses
would cease talking and behave themselves..—
Duke of Edinburgh, with an eye to business, con-
siders the future Dutch Queen, who is heiress to
many millions, the most eligible match in Europe
for his only son The Spanish Commission says
the Panama Canal cannot be opened before 1893;
it will take £35 000,003 more to finish it.... The
State, a London Tory rag, impudently says:—
“ We cannot too strongly impress upon the public
the fact that the great bulk of the Gladstone
Government are men with few private resources.”
...A movement is on foot to reform gentlemen’s
evening dress. They are going to leave their shirts
at home and out the sleeves out of their coats..—
Sunday-school teacher (to Ah Sin, laundryman);
“ What are the wages of sin ? ” Ah Sin: “ Thlee
and sixpence a dozen; no payee.no washee”....
The last days of King Louis of Bavaria were spent
drinking brandy and abusing the one privileged
being allowed to enter the kingly presenoe. This
psor valet, even, was not allowed to look on the
royal face. He was to prostrate himself at full
length, with his face to the door, and receive the
royal commands in that graceful attitude—An
American obituary:—“ George H. Butler, who
has just died, was a brave man and a bril-
liant iournalist. He bore up courageously,
notwithstanding the fact that he was the
nephew of hts uncle Ben, and it !really was
not that that killed him—it was the whisky
The music of the “Marseillaise,” it has been
found, is a part of an old German mass, set by
Rouget de l’lsle to a quicker tempo. It is alia
matter of quickness or slowness of tempo whether
a melody sounds martial or ecclesiastically edify-
ing. A Sydney organist the other Sunday played
the congregation oat to “The Wind that Shakes
the Bariev’’—ground out slowly....An article in
the Provincial Medical Journal deals with
hydrophobia, and tends to prove that a vapour-
bath is a certain cure. One doctor who tried the
vapour-batn w»o successful with 80 persons who
had been bitten by mad animals, and never lost a
single case ic is to arouse plebeian enthusiasm
and dimage Gladstone that Queen Victoria has
lately been on the stump.... ifrom Liverpool
Echo, 10 th May:—"Canon Bardsley, late rector of
St. Ann’s, Manchester, died early this morning
No hopes of his recovery are entertained.”..—
“Have you heard that Lady X. is dangerously
ill ” “No ; she was, but she is now dangerously
we11.”....A Montreal judge has decided that-
Michael Angelo’s “Night” and “ Morning” are in-
decently nude statues. Michael was a devout
Catholic, one of the most religious men of his time,
and the statues condemned by the Montreal Dog-
berry have stood for centuries in a Christian
church Oliver Wendell Holmes, the “Auto-
crat of the Breakfast-Table, now visiting
England, is described as “ a pleasant little
man, with white hair, a clean-shaven face,
neatly-cut features, and a graceful .and winning
manner, easy and good-humoured.”....Sarah
Bernhardt is writing a comedy for Mrs. Bor-
nard-Beere to piay in. Sarah has tried her hand
at acting, aeronautics, journalism, painting, soulp-
ing, languages, and ether trades too numerous to
mention The Nationalists satirically advertise
in a Tipperary paper for 100,000 rotten eggs to
repel the “ advanee of 33,000 Orangemen with
rifles.”....The Pall Mall Gazette gives fresh
currency to the story that Beaoonsfleld, on his
death-bed, sent for a Jesuit, and was received into
the bosom of .the Roman Catholic Church A
poet oompares death to winter. He will possibly
think it more like summer when he gets there..—
Tight dresses, tight pants, and tight coats have
entirely gone out of fashion. Tight man haven’t,
however. ...Reynolds says, re the rejection by
the Lords of the Deceased Wife's Sister Bill, that
it is a gross calumny on Englishwomen at large to
accuse them of imitating the immoralities of the
relatives and associates of the bish jps....Tho
name “Tory” is said to be derived from an Irish
word meaning “one who hunts after plunder.
A Conservative is one who holds onto the plunder
after he has got it.... The Prince of Wales is a pro-
nounced martinet in sooial etiquette, and insists
upon Prince Henry of Battenberg being kept back
in his proper place on all stat 9 occasions. Poor
Battenberg’s place is anywhere where there is a
hard chair and a draught.
We read in all tde country papers of th«
latest luxury, a bed with machinery attached, to
take the rouirh edge off early rising. An eleotrio
apparatus rings a peal of bells, lights a candle,
takes off the sleeper’s night-cap-if he years
none, it takes away a handful of hair instead
then it prepares a cup of coffee, plays a tune oa
the piano, and finally lifts him out on the floor.
All that is now wanted is a patent re vers l bleb aefc-
action attachment to grab Jawbone Neild and
put him to bed at 10 o elock every night during
the session.
a terrible skin disease.
T have tried for eleven years to have mv wife
cured of a terrible skin disease. The CcrTioaßA
Remedies (Cuticura. resolvent, the new blood
Ser later naliy, and CuriOtJßA the great skin
cure, and CtrriCcrßA Soap, an exquisite skmb® au :
tifter externally) have done in six weeks what L
havetried for eleven years to have done. Yo u shall
have the Darttcuiars as soon as I caa give them to
vmi and m we are so well known in this part of
the country, it will benefit you. and the remrtjg
will cure all who use them. CHaS. H. Whiifl.
Maysville, Ky.
Marie Brizard I
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a donor and preserva-
tive of health. w ..
To Fat People.—A. new English Medicine,
specially on the liiver and Kidneys, and meeting
with most wonderful success in Ragland and the
Colonies. Must not be confounded with an y the
so-called Anti-fats. This Medicine is packed in
cmbs and sold at reduced prices (dou lie strength),
with complete instructions and directions, aend
for circular for Stout Persons. Elliott Bros., ana
all chemists. -
Something upon which we can reiy—
Wolfe’s Schnapps.


PEPPER AND SALT.
THE HEATHEN AT SILVERTON.
We take the following extract from the
lately-issued report of that valuable body the
N.S.W. Bible Sooiety. It is just delicious. Voila:—
“Your committee have always recognised the
obligation which rests upon them to promote
Bibxe circulation in Australia and to see that the
heathen at our own doors are provided with the
Word of Life. Under this conviotion they have
contributed the sum of £3O for colportage at SU*
verton, a mining township 800 miles from Sydney.
• • . For six months the colporteur worked at
this place.” For six months, and was not thrown
down a shaft or ground to grease in a mill! Well,
miners are getting to be confoundedly humane,
not to say turnip-hearted, compared with what
they were in the good .old times. Yet perhaps
they are right. Yes, they are when we come to
think of it. A few stanzas—
AmoDg the noble instinots implanted by
Providence in the human breast few are more
striking: in their grandeur, or more deeply im-
pressive in their results, than that which leads a
white man to kick a Chinaman whenever the
opportunity and the Chinaman present themselves.
The action marks the revolt of reason, intellect,
energy, civilisation and hob-nailed boots against
opium and barbarism; it denotes in a striking
manner the supremacy of the great Anglo-Saxon
raoe; it stimulates trade by repressing Mongo;
competition: and as it furnishes the only adequate
check against the irruption of the Asiatic hordes*
it is a custom whioh deserves the support of all
true patriots. The effect on the kioked party, also,
is very gratifying, for a Chinanan who has been
kicked is worth at least two who have not. These
considerations, however, appear not to be fully
appreciated by the Tamworth magistrates. At
that town, a few days ago, Jimmy Chingj sued
Alfred Thomson for damaging his weather-"feye,
and, further, sticking a pin in that part of his
anatomy which faces the east when he turns his
face to the setting sun, while engaged in knee-
drill at the Salvation Army. Jimmy, it appears,
was kneeling in the ring, when the defendant, who
was trying to shove himself in near the throne
of grace, used the pinas a means of making him sit
up. Ching then remarked “Me don’t want devils,
me want Saivasha,” but while he was finish-
ing this edifying sentiment he was stonewalled
in the eye. According to the defence, however,
Thomson was peacefully standing his umbrella
up against the ark of the covenant when the
Chinaman endeavoured to buck him out of the
oirole, and it must be acknowledged that the spec-
tacle of a yellow man ejecting a Caucasian is one
which is calculated to rend the Empire asunder.
Ching seems to have been considerably shaken up
in the struggle whioh ensued, and at last, with his
hat gone and his pigtail flying in the wind, he
turned his attention to a man named Bible, with the
apparent intention of kicking the Apoorypha out
of him, and knocking his evangelical remains
into the middle of Abraham’s bosom. Why the
P.M. should have seen fit to fine the defendant 40a.
and costs under such circumstances, it is difficult
to understand, especially when we remember that,
according to old established custom, it is the privi-
lege of every European to kick a Chinaman when-
ever he can get a square run at him. Possibly there
were other circumstances involved which were not
reported, but to judge by the evidence given in
the local paper, it seems as if the ends of justice
would have been best served by ordering the
Mongol to be officially kicked by the Clerk of
Petty Sessions, and then run out by the senior
oonstable, after which the case might very well
have been dismissed.
« • •
The looal option poll at Rockhampton
(Q.) has ended in a triumph for those who love to
gaze on the frothing porter and fill high the bowj
with shandygaff. The righteous men of the land
rolled up in all their force, but they were very
few, while the rest of the community rose like one
drunkard to demolish them,
And their numbers were lika the omnivorou
horde
That sweeps off the food from the free-luncbeon
board.
All that fateful day the grog-blossomed noses
glowed like red ill-omened meteors round the
polling-booth, and reflected a baleful light as the
sun of the tropics darted down its rays on each
crimson beak. Blotchy citizens, dirty, ragged citi-
zens,malodorous citizens,all were there. The distant
bushman galvanised his steed into new life, and gal-
loped in to strike for freedom; the publican and
the sinner voted straight for the same cause; so did
the local brewer, and the policeman, and the
corner loafer, and the habitual drunk, and the
man who uses obscene language, and the party
who sleeps on the hotel verandah, and the man
with no legs, and the other man with no visible
means of support, till the 10 just citizens of Rock-
hampton retired in despair. And now a beery
jubilee is in progress in that dreary town on the
Fflzroy River, the fountains of the great deep are
broken up, and it promises tj ra.n whi.ky for 40
days and 49 nights, while the hard-shell loafers
join in the chorus, “ Let soioe droppiDgg fall on
me.”
We thought that none were left, and yet
You mu stbe Christians true;
There’s nothing Btigginsish, we bet,
Or hollow about you-
Wby, with that sleek colporteur cuss,
We would have wiped the floors
If his society called m
"The heathen at their doors."
Why, when it comes to sending round
The hat to help distress,
Who flings free-handedly his pound,
Or shilling, more or less,
Just as he “ holds ” it, with fine phlegm,
Smug saints whose psalm upsoars ?
Not much. You bet your life, not them—
The heathen at their doors.
Yet, men of Silverton, you’re right
To spare that colporteur—
He doesn’t carry on from spite,
No doubt the man is poor;
And you can treat with laughter, too,
The old blue-mouldy bores
With mole-eyed souis, who misnamed you
“ The heathen at our doors."
BRIEF MENTION .
“ You are turning this place into a bear-
garden!” ejaculated one lawyer to another In
Melbourne County Court. ‘‘Then you’ll feel
quite at home ” said the other fellow.
“ No shearer need apply only upon these
terms,” Is the haughty declaration of the Darling
squatters, who are trying to worn a boycott on the
wool-lifters. We hope no shearers won’t apply
except only upon these terms.
A crowd of diggers who sailed for Kim-
berley from Melbourne a week or so ago sang a
number of Bankey’s hymns as they were wafted
by the soft nor’-easter a-down the fragrant Yarra.
They are going out there to pray for rain pro-
bably.
Melbourne Punch, in growling over the
final result of the libel case Browne v Punch,
says that “the law Is to be amended so that such
an Injustice shall not occur again ; it if* practi-
cally admitted by the Government that Gannon
are alike victims of the law.” Now
Ned Kelly was a viotim of the law.
A great Salvation Army sensation was
B ? me time ago by the appearance of a
‘ Hallelujah Donkey Rider,” who led the saored
band at Brompton (8. A.) as a pious burlesque on
the entry into Jerusalem. The representation, so
far as the donkey was concerned, was a deolded
suoocss, but the man was a dead failure.
A N.Z. journal propounds the following
hideous connundrum:— ‘‘Mhslng Friends.—Five
pounds reward will be paid to any person that will
give Information of the whereabouts, dead or
alive, of Patrick Keogh. Last heard of in Baligar,
county Galway, Ireland. Address, &o.” If the
heading had been “Missing Fiends” it might
possibly have hit Patrick’s case a little better.
The Paris Counoil of Health has reported
io favour of the expulsion of all dairy cows from
that olty, as town-kept cows are found to be a pro-
lific source of pulmonary consumption. It would
be cruel to make such a report in Sydney, where
the dairymen, by long and praiseworthy attention
to business, have raised a valuable breed of cows
that will only drink out of cesspools.
At the Bourke (N.S.W.) police court, the
solicitor for the defence in a stolen watch case en-
deavoured to make capital out of the alleged lact
that one of the witnesses kept a disreputable
house. "Now, what sort of a place do you keep ?”
said he. “ Well, you orter know—you’ve bin there
orfen enuff,” said she. “ Silence in the coort,”
cried the mighty gaoler, and the limb of the law
relaxed.
A worthy old Melbourne gentleman gave
a dinner at the Fitzroy Town Hall to commemo-
rate the fortieth anniversary of his wedding day.
Carried away by his feelings the elderly oonnu-
bialist said that “ if he was 40 years younger he
would marry again.” We oan quite believe him.
Forty years ago we would have lived in the
Mahommedan style if we hadn’t been located in a
Christian country.
3|The St. Kilda ,Adv jbrtiser says “ H.R.H.
the Prince of Wales may bo assured that the in-
vitation to visit the colonies emanates from and
,is a loyal and respectful desire of the Australian
at large.” The Australian "at large I” Toere is
evidently a lingering idea in the alleged mind of
our contemporary that Alnerc E iward might pos-
sibly suspect that the invitation came from the
Australian in gaol.
Five bishops died in England last year,
leaving property to an aggregate value of £290,000
The average apostle of ancient Galilee, when his
pockets were searched by the coroner, was found
to carry all his worldly goods about with him, and
they generally consisted of a clay pipe, a plug of
tobacco, and a letter from his wife asking him to
come home at once as the baby was very ill. The
world hss improved.
A lecture on phrenology, physiology, love,
courtship, and marriage, was recently announced
at Bega by a gentleman who calls himself “the
original hook-agent,” but it proved a woeful
failure. The stage was rushed, and a dead pussy
occupied a prominent and unauthorised position
on the programme, while the air was filled with
the subtle perfume known as otto of cat. “The
original book-agent ” left.
The Age’s ewn correspondent cabled the
thrilling tidings that he “ narrowly escaped
destruction” from the re-eruptions at Rotoma-
hana. Ah I the Almighty makes no distinction oi
personp. If the Age man had fallen upon his
knees in prayer like that misguided tourist, Mr.
Bainbridge, he would probably have come to a
similar end. But we guess he took more practical
means to escape destruction.
The Burro wa (N.B. W.) Times fills the best
part of a recent issue with the Hovell’s Creek
fbost. Weowned a ghost ourselves once, but we
on’t brag so muoh about it as the Burro wa people
do. Our spectre, however, was a very valuable
one, for it was aooustomed to make midnight ex-
cursions into neighbouring houses and briag out
plate, watches, and other artioles, and it declared
a dividend with unfailing regularity every quarter.
It is now doing 13 months’ “solitary” deeply re-
gretted by its shareholders.
We adore originality. Here is the very
latest idea—from a Maryborough (Queensland;
paper—a birth-notice and an obituary-notice com-
bined :-“ Birth. Blank.-On the 3rd July, at her
residence, Kent-street, the wife of James Blank,
farrier, &0., of a son, still-born.
Babes thither caught from womb and breast,
Claimed highest praise above the rest,.
Because they found that happy shore
They never sought or saw before.
They can boast of at least ore genuine
Primrose Dame at Hamilton (Vic.) She is in the
grub-eaten-apple business, and she announces by
advertisement that sae Thanks the nobility and
surrounding district for their kind patronage, also
the working olase.” The duke in the back lane
and the marquis in the shanty up the right-of-
way, have always, it appears, given this lady the
most generous enoouragement, and she a so sup-
plies cabbages andbeaDSfor the banquet in tne
ancestral halls of the dust-nobleman, the looal
char-lady, and the earl who keeps the pawnshop
up the road. We are glad to find that these
haughty aristocrats are lending their support to
honest Industry.
What good fellows Jackaroos are when
they are not otherwise! Up the Darling there is a
swell oolonial- xperiencer, who is not only short-
sighted but apparently, even with the aid of an
eyeglass, can t tell one horse from another. As a
joke the rcmseabout groom pasted a paper on this
gentleman's pony, and this was the legend: “I am
Minnie Warren (her name). Don’t yer no me.”
When he had looked all round the yard and failed
to find her the groom pointed her out. Mr. Jno.
A. Roo was riled, but laughed. End of act L That
the manager ct ied the groom and said:
Tom; you must get Mr. Roo's horse cleaned and
saddled every morning and hung up iu front of
the verandah. ’ They laugh best who laugh last.
A ease of oruelby to animals (assaulting
the £P llce) was tried lately in the south-east of
N.S.W. After it was settled, oneBootus, a foreigner
from Caledonia, remarked, •* They did not produce
the coat.” “Fwat khote? ’ said the bould Pbcoal-
man who was plaintiff. “ Weil,” said “ I’ve
Seen 18 cases in thia town, and you have always
brought out a very disreputable old tunic as evi-
dency, You used to keep it iu the lock-up veran-
c ah, but I suppose it s worn out. You owe it 18
! times iS. 61. Let s see. £l5 153 ” Scotty was run
in that night and out ot the town next day.
Apropos of this, Scotty was staggering home to
the bridge hotel (foson de parler for his camp
under the bridge), when he fell into the arms of
the P.M. and a widow-publican. “Beg pardon,”
* waQ t to call your attention to the
fact that 1 m sober. I might be rua iD, so 111 call
you two as evidence/' He was not interfered with
that night.
Sue 1 ALiriJSS, 'B6, 13. (post la. oi), now ready.
IjU wood-cuts. Toe book for maiden, masher,
young and old. All booksellers. Ale*. M'Klnloy
and Co.. Sydney,
BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
“Ted” Evans again came off in the Not-
tlngham match, an 1 until particulars are received
from headquarters we shall remain in mystery as
to why he was left out of the test matoh. Speak-
ing of Evans' bowling in the Surrey match, an
English paper says:—"The Australians fairly
earned their reputation for doing big things at
the finish of a matoh. Special praise may be given
to Evans He bowled all through the Surrey
innings from the Gasworks wioket, and it would
be scarcely an exaggeration to say that in his 41
overs there were not half-a-dozen bad balls. He
has as accurate a pitch as even Alfred Shaw in his
best days. His bowliog on Saturday was some
compensation for the unavoidable loss of Spof-
forth's services.” There are rumours that the
Australian Eleven is not quite such a hanpy
family as it might be, and reported heavy wag rs
as to the number of wickets taken by respeotiv
bowlers do not tend to strengthen ih« confidence
of the Australian public in their representatives.
Allowing Evans was fit and willing to play, it is
the general opinion of the cricketing public that
he should have been included in the best Austra-
lian eleven now available in England.
* * *
But a moderate attendance put in an ap-
pearance at the Bydney Association Ground on
Saturday, when N.S.W. met and defeated Victoria
in football under British Association rules. The
game is all leg play, and should prove a great im-
provement upon the Rugby game at schools, on
account of its comparative gentleness, but we do
not think it is likely to find much favour amongst
the present generation of Sydney footballers,
whatever it may do in the future.
m * *
Under Rugby rules the Gordons added
another to their already long list of victories, by
defeating Burwood by 5 points to nil. They have
improved muoh in their play, and are now, with-
out doubt, a really fine team; and as matters
stand, are top of the list for the Gardiner Cup,
with every probability of becoming the holders
at the end of the season. Their record is a slash-
ing one—not a club succeeding in “doing ” them—
and included in their score is a win against the
University early in the season. Unfortunately no
return match is on the card between these cracks,
but as each is most anxious for another brush, it
is to be hoped some arrangement may be arrived
at by which to give them a second trial. The
’Varsity record is far from a bad on*?, their only
defeat being at the hands, or rather feet, of the
Gordons, and should they again meet their victors,
we are amongst the many who believe the students
would now just about put the Gordons through
their facings.
* * *
The betting public were sadly at fault at
Rosehill on Saturday last. Of the five first
favourites only one, Recruit, managed to run into
a place, and Jack Thompson laid 40 to 1 about
Upper Cut, the winner of the Flying Stakes.
* * *
We have received a copy of the programme
of the Civalry Tournament, fixed for August 14th,
and if the sports be in keeping with the get-up ui
the.card they should not prove “small beer ” King-
tilting, lemon-splitting, Turk s head oleaving, and
wrestling, all on horseback, are not the least in-
teresting items on the card.
* * *
The Rosehill Race Club had a good attend-
ance, fine weather, and the Governor at their
meeting on Saturday last. Commodore won the
Hurdle Race by a length from The Drummer,
Cymbal third. Upper Cut “ did ” Sprculatioa by a
short head in the Flying Btakes, Kathleen third.
Hatter won the Steeplechase from Kangaroo,
Moonlight, a long way away, third. The aelling
Race fell to Murrurundi; and Folly won the July
Handicap from Brown and Hose and Happy
Thought, who ran a dead heat for second place.
» * •
We can safely commend to the notice of
racing men, H. Oxenham’s “ Handicap Compara-
tive Table.” It treats of the Hawkesbury County
Purse, Hawkeshury Handicap, Metropolitan
Stakes, and Caulfield and Melbourne Cups, giving
the weights, age, and breeding of each animal
engaged.
a • *
On dit that when the balance-sheet in con-
nection with the visit of the Queensland Inter-
colonial team to Sydney last month is made up,
the N.B.W. Football Association will find itself in
the mud to the tune of about £lOO.
a * *
The team selected to represent “ All Eng-
land” in the Manchester match included a larger
proportion of professional players than any pre-
vious combination eleven. As we remarked a few
weeks ago, the amateurs (so called) are no longer
the cream of Eoglish cricketing talent, ana it
would even seem that the somewhat unpalatable
truth has at last dawned upon the big-wigs who
choose "All England” teams. At the present
moment there is not a single gentleman-bowler
whose form is anything approaching that of the
best professionals, and it will be observed that in
the match under notice neither Grace nor Steel
was credited with a wicket. For the matter of
that, Peate seems to have failed with the ball, and
was consequently a mere passenger in the boat, a
very different class of tail-man to Spoffortb, who
rattled up 20 (not out) when seven of the cracks
htd been previously disposed of for a grand total
of 19. A bowler like Peate is a terrible weakness
to a team if the ground doesn’t exactly suit his
pitch. Massie used to say that a batsman could
want nothing better than to play the Yorksnire-
man on a dry wicket. It was through plaoing too
reliance on Peate’s bowling, and omitting to
include some of the more reliable trundlers, that
the Emrlisnmen got such a fearful leataer-hunting
at tne Oval in 1884. After ihe Manchester success
we shall be interested to see whether the Maryle-
fcone Club people will endeavour to improve upon
that eleven for the matches at Lord s aid the Oval.
If they make any substituti ns beyond, say Barnes
for Peate, we shall exp-ct to find the Australians
in front at the finish.
* * *
George, the ex-amateur English ped., has
been d«cisively beaten bv Myers, in America.
They ran three events of 1000, 1320 and 1760>ds,
and the Yankee idol won tbs lot. The track
chosen was all in favour of a sprinter like Myers,
it being only a furlong round, giving no more
tnan 60yds. straight-running on each side. George,
with his long stride, was naturally handicapped
considerably iu having to make 8 laps for his
favourite mile; nevertheless he was only beaten
by 3yds. According to reports, there was won-
derful interest taken in the mile-race, one writer
statiDg that the women in the boxes “waved
everything they had.” If this is correct, what a
scene the ladies’ dressing-room must have pre-
sented prior to the struggle I
* * *
Newstead, dow a gelding, was sold the
other day for 175 guineas. Ai.out this time last
year, when be was backed at a very short price for
the Y.R.C. Derby, and deemed capable or carrying
off the Melbourne Cup into the bargain, Newer,ead
certainly have fetched 2000 guineas. This
must be a melancholy reflection lor the creditors
or the insolvent estate on whose behalf the horse
was put up for sale.
* at a
I A Victorian M.L A. has written a wrath-
ful letter in reply to 16 applications tor donations
to local football clubs. Says the irate senator:
' 1 am perfectly willing to give a handsome
donation to eacn and ail of the football clubs in
my electoral district upon one condition, viz,
that every member of each club having so much
physical energy to spare will give an assurance
that, before joining in the sporr, they had at-
tended to every domestic requirement, such as
chopping wood, digging the garden, and trim-
ming up their places of abode. Then, and not
till then, should they be entitled to kick to their
hearts’ content.” Misguided man! Has he not
learned that the passion for kicking something
is implanted iu every Australian breast ? It is a
taste which must be catered for at any cost. Only
the other day a Melbourne man, ordiDarily'mild-
mannered and affectionate, was overcome by the
athletic frenzy in the still small hours of the
night. There was wood to be chopped and a
garden to be dug—but wat of that! He wanted
football. And, as there was no leather plaything
handy, he took a drop kiok at his wife, and landed
her safely between the goal posts of eternity.
* * *
Even if it is strictly correct that W. GL
Grace demands a fee of £l5OO for making a trip to
Australia, no one is likely to blame him for stand-
ing out for his pound of flesh. The Doctor is now
is his fortieth year, and must shortly renounce
the bat for the stethoscope once and for all.
While the nameof Grace is still a charm to conjure
with, the holder is quite justified in getting the
best price obtainable for his property. Moreov r,
W.G's medical practice is worth something <. w,
and it won’t ne worth ho much if all bis • d
patients are allowed to cure thermelves whil he
is playing cricket over ia Australia. So, 'ukr- it
altogether, the veteran “champ" n” can scarcely
be expected to accept less than £l5OO for his picnic.
Whether the Melbourne Club can be expected to
pay it, is quite another matter.
« * *
The Referee remarks that champion-
sculler Beach has done well to exhibit himself for
pay at the London music-halls before rowing any
races. “ Because, you see, on the strength of his
two victories over Hanlan, he has a high commer-
cial or Commercial-street value. But if he did
not happen to win when he does race, what wculd
be his worth for a few turns per night at the Lon-
don Palaces ? Not enough to pay the hire of the
brougham, without which no well-regulated
music-hall star of the mildest effu'genoe is half
complete.”
The West Australian Nigger.
Rev. J. D. Gribble, Churoh of England mis-
sionary in Western Australia, is at least a little bit
like a real primitive Christian, so, of course, local
society has begun to kick him and spit upon him.
For years aud years the treatment dealt out by
the so-called Christian Government and settlers
and judges and juries of Western Australia has
cried aloud for vengeance. The law and the
settlers have relentlessly hanged and flogged
and murdered and enslaved the blaoks. The police
have shot aboriginal men and women and children
like native dogs for small offences against the
sacred rights of property. The blacks are hunted
down in the wilds like emus or kangaroos, and
driven off to be kept in bondage as labourers in
the pearl-shelling industry, and when taey abscond
they are, for breaking "agreements” into which
they have compulsorily entered, and the provisions
whereof they never understood, sent to gaol at
Rottnest Island-a fever-den from which few
blacks ever return. In some cases they are sen-
tenced to a period in irons, coupled neck to neck
and chained to gum-trees day after day aid week
after week. Mr. Gribble tells of a case in which
seven natives were chained to each other and to a
cartwheel, and were then flogged with a stock-
whip until the blood was flowing in streams from
their naked backs. The same kind of treatment
is inflicted for other offences, such as stealing
rations or killing sheep, which they are frequently
driven to by hunger, in consequence of the white
men having taken possession of their oountry and
driven away their game. Hundreds of native
girls and women are captured ior the worst pur-
poses. The Government of the country is in the
hands of a few families, and there is no hope for
the blacks. The settlers interested in the perpetu-
ation of this murder and slavery system boyc jtted
Mr. Gribble when he tried to establish a mission
station until he couldn't get a bit to eat r and when
Hon. Alex, Forrest kindly offered help they boy-
cotted Mr. Forrest's station also. Mr. Gribble is a
kindly, well-meaning man, but he is kioking
against the pricks. He is living in a practical age in
which the priest and the deacon go up to the Temple
but once a week—to rake in the collection. “Feed my
sheep ” now means turn out the nigger so that the
white man’s pedigree-jumbucks may be pastured
on the land of the aboriginal. It also means form a
Potts Point or Toorak branch of the Primrose
League, in order that hungry old women may be
sent to gaol, in England, for stealing raw vege-
tables from the rich landlord hard by. Our advice
to Pastor Gribble is not to make a fool of himself
We, of the Eastern colonies, have cleared off the
blackfellows so thoroughly, and made them so
scarce, that whenever a stray drunken nigger
vagrant dies now-a-days, half-a-dozen surgeons
struggle to get his skull for some museum or
other. By the alchemy of greei we have changed
the blood of the blackfellow into the gold we
jingle in our pockets, and any man who, like Mr*
Gribble, comes to the churches in the East-
churches whose bishops but the other day lifted
up their voices and asked God to bless the murder
of Arabs in the Soudan—for help for the yet un-
slaughtered blackfellows in the West, is only
gnawing a tile.
Marie Brizardl
As a strengthener of the weak Wolfe’s
Bchnapps is absolutely matohless.
Robustaod blooming health in Hop Bitters,
(Americaa Co ’b) and no family can afford to be
without them Bead
SOCIALITIES, ’BB, Is. (pest Is. 3d.), now ready
150 wood-cuts The book for maiden, masher,
young and old. All booksellers. Alex. M’Kinley
and Co., Sydney.
The Great Northern Hotel, Charlotte-
place and George-street, is unapproachable for
cheapness, c mbined with good quality. The
motto is-Small profits and quick returns.*
To Fat People.—Dr. Bussell’s English
Cure for Corpulency, reduces from 5 to 7 pounds
weekly. Reduces from sto 7 pounds weekly. For
Corpulency. For Corpulency. English Cure,
English Cure. Dr. Russell’s Dr. Russell s In
cases at Reduced prices. Corpulency can be
Cured. Elliott Bros., and all Chemists.
Marie Brizard I
Bodily irregularities and weakness can bt
remedied by Wolfe's Schnapps.
The poverty display our colony makts at
Exhibition In London is generally known, and tne
wonder is why we are so far below our neighbours
in our show. Raw material we have in abund-
ance, and the means to convert it into merchant-
able articles, but while we could do exceedingly
above what we have, the work of the potter in the
colony is very far below the beautiful specimens
that reach us through the efforts of Bray Bros
the china and glass people, whose windows In
Georgestreet always have such a fascinating
effect on passers.*
SOCIALITIES, 'B6, Is. (post If. 31.), now ready,
150 illustrations. The brightest, largest, and
cheapest work ever published. All previous edi-
tions excelled. All booksellers. Alex, M'JKinley
and Co., Sydaey.
Marie Briaard I
All diseases requiring invigorative treat-
ment are cured by Wolf6’s Schnapps.


SOCIALS
i Judge and the Misses Josephson enter-
tained a very large number of people at a fanoy
dress ball in Sydney Town Hall ontbe evening of
7th July. Nearly all the gursts appeared in ex-
tremely handsome fanoy oostumes, and the event
Will long be remembered as a most delightful suc-
cess. The hall was tastefully deoorated. Herr
Patels’* band supplied excellect music, and the
arrangements were la every way perfect. About
kilns o'clock the room was crowded, and then
there wore to be seen kings, cooks, postmen,
huntsmen, cavaliers, jockeys, Turks, &a„ begging
for the programmes of queens, duehtfises, village-
maids, gleaners, flsh-w.lves, shepherdesses, milk-
maids, until .the of the band warned
them tfa&t the was beginning. Amongst
those assembled w are the Mayor and Mis 3 Young,
jhady Hay*, Lady and the Mieses Manning, the Hon.
S’. B. Suutor, Mr. and Mrs. Mort, Mr. E. W. Wal-
IJpSton, Captain Sheriffe, Captain Terry, Lord
■.Bertie, Captain Brooke (H M.S. Opal), Mr. Stuart,
R.N. Miss Jcsephson wore a handsome black
costume, with patches and powder ; her sister was
a great suooess as “Portia”; Miss Annie Man-
ning, ingeniously costumed as “ Kabbit-giri,”
was the admiration of all present; Miss Aus-
tin, as a “ Masher Postman,” was “as nice as you
ihake them”; Mrs. Cohen was an extremely pretty
little “ Cupid ”; and Mrs. Purves looked very hand-
some as the “Grand Duchess of Gerolstein”; Mrs.
Henry White's artistio and original choice of
“Truth ’* was immensely admired; and Mies Simp-
Son looked very charming as “ Stars and Stripes ” {
MiBB Throckmorton, as “Lady TeaSSle,” wore a hand-
some dress; Miss Cruiokshank’s Fishwife attire
suited her to perfection; Mrs. Moiteflore looked
very well as a Turkish lady; and Mr. Monteflore,
as a Chinaman, was an acknowledged success;
Mr. Fred Orr did not fail in impersonating a noble
Frenchman; Mr. Sachs was conspicuous and ad-
mired as Goehr de Lion; Mr. Ernest Cox looked a
thorouga jockey; and Mr. Bernard Wise, an appe-
tising cook; Mr J. Allison aspired to @lr Walter
Raleigh; Sir Edward Strickland was a great sue
cess as an English foihunter; Captain Sheriff
looked capital in a hunting costume, and Mr.
Charles Billyard was a very good, French marquis.
There were a number of other very handsome
and appropriate characters!
« e ■
At the hinth raoe-meeting, held at Rose-
hill, last Saturday, the ladies presented a very
fashionable appearance, and showed to advantage
on the well-kept lawn some tasteful and handsome
toilettes. Dark serges and tailor-made dresses
were chiefly chosen, and hats were most predomi-
nant, very few bonnets being worn.
* * *
Bome new features are discernible in
the make of ladies’ dresses at present, especially
Short Costumes, either for day or evening wear.
The plain, full skirts are IteSs lull than they were,
hnd the two sides of the bodice are seldom, if ever,
trimihed alike. An extremely pretty example is
to hav*3 fib underskirt of dark velvet edged with a
Jktee-inch-wide border of gold and silk passemen-
terie, and for that to be brought up the side in two
rows, as if the skirt opened there, and then the
surah or foulard that forms the tbfllce and upper
drapery can be gracefully arranged over it in
points. The newest evening drefeses are exceed-
ingly fascinating—bhb in pale mauve, or helio-
trope, is a succession of three materials laid over
each other. First there is a pale silk underskirt
clotted with pendants of silver beads; over this is
h skirt of white lace embroidered with silver, and
over this again a deeper shade of poult de scie.
* * ■
The Woollahra Private Asstmbly held
their usual fortnightly meeting in the New Odd-
fellows’ Hall, GreeD-ttreet, Woollahra, on Wed-
nesday evening, the 7 ih lest. There was a fairly
good attendance, notwithstanding the unpromis-
ing appearance of the weather, and the music,
supper, &o, were well arranged by a good com-
mittee. Danciog was kept up until nearly 12
o'clock, and a thoroughly enjoyable evening was
spent by all present. The dresses worn by the
young ludltß on this occasion were certainly not
above the average, and would not bear close criti-
cism. This was, no doubt, owing to the wet
weather,
* * +
On July Gtb, Mr; and Mrs. Fuliford enter-
tained nearly 200 guests at a ball to celebrate the
bomp.etion of their new mansion at Hurstville.
In the first part of the evening the large ball-room
was given up to about 70 children, who all ap-
peared in beautiful fancy costumes, the most
noticeable being: Miss Fuliford, as “Queen Anne,’
in a brocaded satin petticoat, crimson satin and
black velvet bodice, with panier trimmed with
gold braid, jewelled crown and sceptre; Miss M.
Fuliford, “ Lady Jane Grey,” a beautiful costume;
Master Fuliford, “Prince Charles,” crimson velvet
doublet with slashed sleeves and cream satin
breeches; Master H. Button, a perfect Hamlet;
Master George Long, a beautifully-dressed Pirate
KiDg; Mr. M. Long, a very effective dress of a
Greek Elder; M. A. Creagh, “ Domine Samson”;
Master GannoD, “Bunthorne”; C. Taylor, a
“Masher”; Miss Kenall, " Harvest”; Missßibby,
a most fascinating Duchets of Devonshire;
Miss Ruby Christian, a most fairy-like Butter-
fly; Miss Bsatriee Tory, “Ruth,” of the “Pirate?,” a
taking dress; Miss Saunders, a charming " Winter”;
Miss Christian, “Kate Greenaway”; Mits Bessie
Button, “Roman Shell Girl.” There were also
numerous Fish Wives, Red Riding Hoods, &0., &c.
The adults, who were all in plain evening dress,
wound up the ball, and alter a most enjoyable
time, numerous carriages provided by the amiable
host and hostess conveyed the guests to their
various homes.
* * *
H.M.S. Nelson is now at Brisbane. An
officer writes to say that the Brisbane girls lined
the shore waiting for them.
* * *
H.M.S. Opal, commanded by Captain
Brooke, left Sydney on Thursday, July Bth. she
is bound for the New Hebrides, where she will re-
main for some weeks.
* * *
His Excellency and Lady Carington issued
invitations for an “ At Home ” at Government
House on Wednesday evening, 14th last., but
in consequence of the death or Lady Stephen, a
postponement to the 29th July has been notified.
On the 14ch July, Mr. and Mrs, Mitchell, of
Eltham, Darling Point, are having a dance at their
residence.
* • *
Mayor Young is about to make— doubtless
unknowingly- a great bid for honours. As a rule,
when a man goes for a baronetcy, he makes at
least a pretence of personal merit. He claims to
have done something, from paying the debts of an
impecunious Governor to sending other people to
bleed and rot for him in the Soudan. But John
knows better. He’s going to play four aces, and
clear the board. At the fancy-dress ball he is
giving, he is going to spot the best-looking and
best-dressed of his guests, and, having pnoto-
graphed them, present them to the Queen 1 The
plan has all the merit of simplicity.
* * »
A musical event, from which much was ex-
pected, took place in Hobart on sthinst., when a
“Packer” festival was held, the entertainment
consisting entirely of the compositions of the
local musician, Mr. F. A. Packer. Very little en-
thusiasm was shown, and the general effect was
disappointing, as the dirge-ike melancholy and
sameness always noticeable in Mr. Packer’s songs
were intensified by the rendering of so many ia
succession The composer’s instrumental items
pianoforte solos—have all a monotonous musical-
box effect, and are extremely irritating to a critical
audience. Quantity, not quality, seems to have
been Mr. Packer’s motto, and, judging from hiß
compositions, he appears to have taken a morbid
delight in misery. The originators of the festival
guarded against possible failure by securing the
services of the. most popular amateur vocalists,
and to their efforts may mainly be asoribed its
partial success, • i
* * «
A number of gentlemen met last week to
consider the advisableness of giving a St. Vin-
cent's Hospital ball—Mr Hughes in the chair.
Messrs. Brady and M'Cirthy were elected secre-
taries. It was finally arranged that a piain-dress
ball should be held in the Exhibition Building on
September 22, These are, perhaps, the most popu-
lar of all the annual Sydney balls. We hope to
see a large muster.
• • •
At the late 4th of July ball at Sydney, a
leading citizen found he was to dance with Lady
Carington. There was no getting out of it for
either party, so the g«ntl6man went into training.
He took long dancing-lessons, and perspired much
—partly from fatigue, but chiefly from appre-
hension After a week’s terrible study, he called
in his friends-chiefly female—and gave them a
full-dress rehearsal; they hypocritically said “ he’d
do.” When the awful night came, the leading
citizen walked into the room, and in the course of
the evening took the floor with her ladyship.
Then the fun began—but not for the gentlemaa,
who found that the lessons were simply money
out of pocket. No man ever looked more relieved
when the music ceased and ended his agony.
• m *
The N.S.W. cavalry tournament, spoken
of last week, is really to come off on August 14.
Lord Carington is to take a part, but we have it
on good authority that his part will be that of a
spectator. Ours will be, too. We were not so far
wrong when we spoke of tne “spills” these wild
hussars indulge io, as only the other day a gallant
major fell off his horse at Moore Park. He did not
oare. It was a minor aot in the drama.
An ek-meatWendor, who is taking a pro-
minent part in establishing a branch of the Prim-
rose League in a certain Australian city, says that
the main object of the Association is to prevent
Radicals and tradesmen from getting into society.
By the way* the League’s great trouble will be to
get primroses—but the difficulty is to be sur-
mounted by young ladies of the “upper-crust ”
rearing the little plants in pots and then sending
to members the bunches they gather with their
own dainty fingers. How Beaconsfleld must laugh
in his wings at the hideous snobbery of the whole
business 1
e • «
Miss Fortescue (Gumboil’s) “is coming to
Australia in the Spiing.” Young Cairns, who
now makes laws for the British Empire, is said to
deeply regret his loss. No doubt—his loss—his
£lO,OOO.
•t- * *
This extraordinary item of news appears
in a Melbourne paper. “Lady Carington* who
was out at the hunt last week, looking very much
out of condition, has since changed hands and is
now under the care of Mr. W. A. Filgate, who will
soon effect an improvement in her appearance.”
Her ladyship may be a little out of condition,
what with receptions and municipal addresses and
other tribulations, but respect for vice-royaity
will not allow us to admit that anyone oould effect
an improvement in her present appearance.
Either W. A. Filgate is a lucky, lucky dawg, or
else the above is a horsey paragraph.
On Friday evening, the dfcb, Mb. and Mrs.
Thomas Robertson, of Fotts Point, entertained a
small number of their friends at a most recherchi
dinner party, music following.
* * *
There are numerous enquiries as to the
whereabouts of a certain “lord,” who leoentiy
visited these colonies, got into “ the very best
society, my dear’’—and had ’em all on toast. His
alleged lordship, whose name was good enough
for anything, and whose authenticity was never
for an instant doubted, was most successful in
worming himself into the confidence of a variety
of old ladies with marriageable daughters, aad he
was especially clever in paying his addresses-a
man must live somehow, doncherknow—to the
proprietresses of “ hash-horses.” Gone like a
beautiful dream I Next, please! Another titled
gentleman travelling in the interests of Imperial
Federation!
* *
The next time the Queen wants to spoil a
good man she should he advised to select Mr.
QuongTart. Mr. Tart Is always doing good. Tnat
he is oenevolent and useful, no doubt reduces his
chances of getting a baronetcy, and that he con-
fines his charitable acts to feeling quietly the
poor and needy, or treating asylum children by
the hundred, is dead against him. Still, the time
may come when he will see the error of his ways,
and, leaving the path of charity, take to the high
road o f grovelling. However, so long as he remains
unimbued with European notions, and carries
she same honest benevolent heart, he must expect
to remain cn the strict Q.T. without a handle to
his name. ,
* * *
England stands a chance of getting a new
poet in Stanley Weall, if she will omy refrain from
making him a Peer until he is 60—she may then de-
grade him as she likes. In “ Babylon Bound
there is a great deal of real poetry as far removed
from commonplace verse as Tennyson the Com-
moner is from Tennyson the Peer. The songs in
the volume are admirable, and very siDgable—the
rhythms strong, rough, and flowing. Stanley Wea 1
should make a name if he keeps out of the literary
“seta” into which the London book-world is now
divided.
* * *
Some Tasmanian ladies—tired, probably,
of twirling their thumbs and crying “Heigh, ho 1
for a husband ” —have had a sudden fit ot loyalty,
which takes the form of a presentation to the
Princess of Wales. This consists of a hand-painted
screen—now on view in Hobart. It is a particu-
larly commonplace piece of furniture, wretchedly
painted, (badly arranged, and evidently a home-
made affair altogether. Unnatural-looking groups
of the berries indigenous to Tasmania, clemat s
nearly devoid of leaves, and fish decidedly out ot
water, are the objects depleted thereon the back
finished off with ordinary wall-paper, cracked ana
torn in many places, and tne whole surmounted
with ugly little excrescences covered with gold
paint. According to the opinion of most ladies
with average good taste, a bonfire would be a
more suitable destination for this mocstrosity
than Sandringham, but the donors are satisfied,
and it is to be forwarded—“ From the ladles of
Tasmania.”
* * *
Our old friend, R. S. Smythe, bas brought
witn him a good strmg quartette that is to astonish
Sydney. lord and xaay Carington will be pre-
sent at the first concert to he held on Friday lotn
inst. R. S has not forgotten our little weaknesses.
We love musio-but we simply worsnip The place
where his Excallenoy dwelieih-or resteth—and so
do all our neighbours. Messrs. Weston, Curtis, zer-
bini, and Reimers are the quartette.
« * *
A lock-out is reported from Petersham,
Sydney. A family much respected in the suburb,
went to churcb on Sunday eveniog last, Alonzo
the first-born taking charge of the front door key.
After service he saw Amelia home and thought-
lessly accepted an invitation from Amelia s papa
to stay there all night. The remaining members
of his family failing to force a shutter <or get down
the parlour chimney, spent the night in the airy
aad commodious wash-nouse.
* * *
Burwood (N.8.W.) was haloed with en-
thusiasm on Wednesday, 7th inst., when MRS
A ice Maude Beaumont, fourth daughter of Mr.
W. Beaumont, said “I will,” to that always in-
teresting question—propounded on this occasion
in St. Luke's Church, Concord, by Canon Moreton,
assisted by Dean Bromby, Mr. Walter L. Taylor,
son of the late Hamlet Taylor, being the other
party primarily interested. The native rugged-
-1 ness of the church-walls was masked by neatly-
disposed festoons of flowers and evergreens, and
the organ-rail was resplendent with a floral medal-
lion and fitting motto. The church was well filled
with visitors, who came in spite of thetreachery or
the weather, and the aggressive adhesiveness of
Burwood mud. The bride, who entered with
her father was more than usually charming in her
cream Gros Royal robe heavily trimmed with laoe
and pearl, and carried a magnificent bouquet of
white camellias and the customary orange-bio*,
a ims. Her train-bearers were Messrs. Albert and
Colin Beaumont, who wore navy-blue velvet suits
Of the bridesmaids, two, Miss LouDe and Miss
Jane Beaumont, wore pale-blue merveilleux with
cream lace trimmings and caps to match; Miss
Emma Beaumont and Miss Leila Taylor, the latter
a sister of the bridegroom, cream merveilleux
with pearl lace trimmings and caps; and Miss
Margaret and Miss Isabel Beaumont, pink nun s
vetliDg trimmed with satin. Each of the
bridesmaids oarried bouquets harmonising in
colour with the prevailing shade of her cos-
tume. Breakfast at Arthursleigb, the resi-
dence of the bride, followed, the impor-
tant toast being submitted by Canon Moreton.
Katoomba was chosen for the honeymoon.
The wedding presents formed au imposing
array and evoked a great deal or admira-
tion. The festivities concluded with a ball
attended by nearly 300 guests. The arrangements
were excellent, and the floor as near perfection as
oan be attained in this world of woe and waltz ng.
The ball-room, specia'ly built for its purpose, and
very handsomely fitted, opened on to enclosed
verandahs, lighted with the usual Chinese lan-
terns, with a refreshment-room conveniently
placed at one end. Including extras, 39 dances
were on the programme, and the milkman was on
his matutinal round before the musio of the
twinkling feet was silenced. Among the ladies
present at the breakfast or ball were the Misses
Buokland (Melbourne), in navy-blue and brown
cashmere, trimmed with plush ; Mrs. Hamlet
Taylor, in blaok merveilleux; Mrs. Beaumont, grey
satin, trimmed with ruby velvet; Miss Taylor,
ruby cashmere; Mrs. Bmith, brawn satin, trimmed
with laoe ; Mrs. Devlin, cardinal satin, with hand-
some train; Miss Hill, pale blue satin, oream
colored lace ; the Misses Hunter, very stylish cos-
tumes of blue and pink satin ; Miss Crossing, a
cream colored costume, with cardinal sash ; and
Mi?s Maiden, in pink satin. Much of thejoyous-
ntss of the proceedings was resultant upon the
hospitable energy of tha Misses Beaumont. The
Compagnoni Catering Company provided hand-
somely, and Mr. Ernest Needs was equally efficient
in his role of M.C. A
Yet another “oourt-martial” on account
of a member of that high-toned corps, the Sydney
Lanceahs. The Billy affectations of thia mucn-
tlngelled company of opulent and pretentious Im-
perialistic swashbucklers have, in the past, af-
forded muoh joy to the brainless females who wor-
ship utitleshed swords, and bow down before uni-
forms that have never been spattered by anything
than beer and gravy. The rest of the community
are alike amused and disgusted at eternally
hearing that a set of overfed carpet-war-
riors are squabbling amongst themselves like
a pack of tea-drinking old women. If the
Lanceahs must quarrel, let them quarrel like
genuine oavalrymen. The authorities of New
Caledonia, which is within a few days' steam,
would put no unreasonable obstacle in the way of
a combat to the death. The Messageries steamers
are very pleasant to travel by, and we dare say
the company would refund half the price of the
return-ticket takea by the warrior who got killed
—or they would undertake to bring back to
Sydney the coffin containing his remains. A dead
Lanceah wouldn’t eat very much on the road,
anyway. + , «,
The late railway smash in Tasmania has
come very near to depriving that colony of its
most important luminaries. Almost every pro-
fession seems to be represented amoßg the injured.
The Church has been bumped in the bead and
badly shaken, the Press has several broken ribs
and two or three of its legs damaged, the Law Is
covered with bruises, and one or two other pro-
fessions are lying ia the hospital and spitting
blood. Parliament, too, appears to have been
considerably illused, and the Cabinet has been
knocked about to such a degree that it is fesred
the Government will have to be conducted
on crutches for a few weeks, at all events. The
moral of all ihis is, that in future, when the
Ministry wants to travel, it had better be taken to
pieces and sent forward in detachments. To risk
the Premier, Treasurer, and Attorney-General in
the same train, was clearly a case of putting too
many baskets on top of one egg.
* * *
It has been pretty definitely ascertained
that the prospective bridegroom iu a rather swell
wedding, fixed to eventuate in a few weeks, has
a wife alive in England.
* * *
A projected May and December marriage,
announced In the papers some months ago, has
baan broken off. There’s many a slip, &3.
* * *
There is still a possibility of Mr. Tylecote,
of wicfcet-keeping celebrity, marrying tne eldest
daughter of Sir W. J. Clarke, of Victoria.
* * *
Serious complaints are made by the judges
and barristers, whosa business is In Melbourne
Supreme Court, about the hardness of the seats
provided for their use. We sympathise with them
sincerely. In fact, we go further. We think that,
in a civilised age like the present, the ridiculous
old notions about dignity beiDg incompatible with
ease and comfort should be knocked on their
hoary heads. They are merely relics of barbarism
—a species of Draconio tradition which compels
them to be clothed with majesty and mystery, as
with an overcoat. But we think the time has
arrived when all that sort of nonsense—wigs and
gowns included—should be done away with. We
would oven fit the dock up with arm-ohairs and
spittoons, so that the poor prisoners might have
a little comfort before they—to use a novel ex-
pression— are consigned to durance vile. The
people who have the arranging of these matters
should think of this. They may be prisoners them-
selves one day. You can never tell what may
happen in these times.
* * *
The newly-formed Randwiok Glee Club
and Instrumental Sooiety gave their first concert
at the local Town Hall on the evening of the Bth.
Professor Hughes conducted, and, for the first
performance, the concert was very creditable
For the sake of variety, the National Anthem was
dispensed with, and the Society propose giviDg
Locke’s Macbeth ” next conoert.
* * *
Last Friday night a high-class musical
recital was given by the Misses Lula, Pauline, and
Blica Joran, Signora Ardini, and Signora Lenciont,
In Messrs. Paling s Rooms, Sydney. The artists
have just arrived from San Francisco, and by their
entertainment made a very favourable impression
on the Sydney publio.
* * *
Mayor Young will open the Poultry Ex-
hibition at Prince Alfred Park to-day (Thursday).
* * *
Miss Isabel Ross was on the 3rd inst. mar-
ried to Mr. Charles Clarence Gale, solicitor, of
Moss Vale. The ceremony was performed at the
Congregational Church, Burwood, and on Monday
last Mr. and Mrs. Gale held an “ At Home ” at
KinDley, Burwood, the residence of the bride’s
mother, which was very numerously attended.
* » •
The “ Mandalay March ” by A. Leslie, is a
pleasing composition, and can be purchased either
at Paling's or Huenerbein’s, George-street.
* * *
The silver spoons of Melbourne have got a
shook within the last few days that they will not
soon recover. A philanthropist with a turn for
practical joking has established a home for female
ex-convicts in the fashianable suburb of South
Yarra, and these women now do repentanoe and
laundry work under the very windows of the Vic-
torian aristocracy, A movement is also op foot
to found a refuge for homeless women in East
Melbourne, another high-toned suburb, where
gentlemen put on clean “dickeys” twice a week and
wear their cuffs round their necks, hut here the
upper circles have risen like one baronet and
swear they will have none of it.
* * * .
On Tuesday, the 6th July, Miss Minnie
Longfleld, of Donnybrook, Botany, was married
at St. Matthew s Church, Botany, to Mr. Robert
T. Stephene, of Botany. The bride, who was
handsomely dressed in whit 9, was attended by
four pages and two maids.
* , , ■ ■
Mr. Alletori, of Btanmore, gavfe. a yefy
pleasant dance last Friday night.
• ■ ■
Lord Carington presented the medals to
the Ly-ee-Moon heroes, on behalf of the National
Shipwreck Society, last Thursday afternoon at the
Exchange. The large hall was packed by enthu-
siastic admirers of bravery. After the presenta-
tion was over the reoipients were besieged by
ladies, who begged to be allowed to handle the
trophies and to shake hands with the fearless fel-
lows who had so well earned their distinctions.
• * *
The Botany Sooial and Rinking Club held
another of their pleasant socials last Thursday
night, at Sir John Banks’ pavilion.
* . * *
Lord Carington was advertised to shed
the glory of his presence at the Sydney Japanese
Village, last Thursday night, but he disappointed
the poor Japs. His rxcellenoy so rarely breaks
his appointments, that it is hardly fair to eatoh
him up when he does; at the same time, had he
but known what a comfortable easy chair had
been provided for him, and what pains the
Japanese women-folk had taken to make them-
selves look “real fasoinatlng,” he would have
thought twice before he decided to sit over the
nursery fire reading the last number of This Bun-
iiimN, that night.- Yes, indeed.
* * *
The Government House sooial, whioh was
to have eventuated last Tuesday evening, was
postponed till the 27th inst. in respect to the
mimory of Lady Stephen, who died at her resi-
dence, College-street, last Monday.
* • *
The Sydney Liedertafel give their next
concert next Tuesday evening in the Exhibition
Building.
* * *
Mr. Patrick White, M.A., of State school
No. 391, Melbourne, was last week presented with
a valuable service of plate (on the subscription-
list for whioh were some Sydney names) by his
oolleagues and old pupils on the oocasion of his
retirement from the public service. Mr. White, in
acknowledging the gift, remarked that he hoped
that he had done the Btate some service by bring-
ing up many of its sons In a path creditable to
themselves and satisfactory to his own humble
exertions. Wherever he looked throughout the
length and breadth of Australia, he found ac-
quaintances, most of whom, he was proud to say,
were successfully established in life, while others
had still to achieve the position achieved by their
seniors. He could not but regret parting from a
field of labour with which he had been so long and
busily engaged, but the regret was alleviated by
the kind and thoughtful recognition of his many
friends, as evinced by their handsome testimonial.
» » *
The tiokets for the Brisbane Liedertafel
are something quite gorgeous—deep-rosa colour
and gold lettering.
* * *
On 7th inst. the first ball, under the aus-
ploes of the Amalgamated Lioensed Victuallers’
Association of N.S.W., was held in the New
Masonic Hall, Sydney. The hall was handsomely
decorated for the occasion, and the rich and hand-
some dresses of the ladies made a brilliant and
very successful picture. About 400 were pre-
sent, so that the room was comfortably filled for
dancing. Noticeable among the many elegant
dresses was a very lovely pale-blue crepe de
otaine, showered over.with clear-cut beads whieh
gave one the idea of numberless diamonds cling-
ing to the skirt, the decelette bodice fitted to per-
fection, and was finished off with white silver
flowers and leaves; a white satin draped in a very
graeeful way, a crushed strawberry satin and net,
a brown satin veiled and draped with golden
brown net, and a pale-green silk profusely
trimmed with handsome white lace, were all ad-
mired.
80CIA.L FIXTURES.
First Social Drapers Association, Caring-
ton Hall
Ninth Annual Esbibitlonof N.S.W.Poul-
try, Pigeon, and Canary Society, Ex-
hibition Building July
Eastern Suburbs Amateur Athletic Club
Social, Nithsdale • • • • •
Sydney Liedertafel Conoert, Exhibition
Building
The Mayor's Fancy Dress Bail, Exhibition
Building
Mercantile Rowing Club Ball, Town Hall
July 15.
15,16,17.
July 16.
July 20.
July 22.
Aug. 3.
Meat is sixpence a pound, and drinks are
sixpence eaoh at Derby (Kimberley). There can’t
be much gold on a new field where you pay as
much for a pound of meat as for a drink.
Wolfe's Schnapps is a most comprehensive
preventive and remedy against all diseases.
To Fat People.—Dr, Russell’s English
Cure for Corpulency, reduces from 5 to 7 pounds
weekly. Reduces from sto 7 pounds weekly. For
Corpulenoy. For Corpulency. English Cure, Dr.
Russell’s. English Cure, Dr. Russell’s. In cases at
Reduced Prices.', Corpulency can be Cured. Elliott
Bros., and all chemists.
Marie Brizard I
’B6, 1«. (post Is. 3i), now ready.
150 illustrations. Tne brightest, largest,: and
cheapest work ever published. Ali previous edi-
tions excelled. All booksellers. Alex. M'Kinley
and Co., Bydney.
The wonderful cordial, Wolfe's Schnapps, will
drive away all physical ailments.
A SYDNEY WAIF.
Deep brown and sunken eyes, that showed a gleam
Of wit, or even genius, in his face!
Despite the crusting grime of many davs,
Some line that spoke of bsauty you might trace.
Hi* c'othe* consisted most of rags and holes,
His hat was crownless, and bereft of brim;
His whole appearance was a catalogue
Of trial, trouble, and starvation grim!
Poor little chap I He had no lpt or share
In anything which makes it joy to live;
He wao an exile from the world, and it
Gave nothing to him, and csuld notning give.
He had not heard of science, and knew nought
Of those great powers which in the world pre*
Vflil 5
Nor had he heard of Summerfteld and Co,
And their enormous Bankrupt Bargain Sale.
He had not heard that Messrs. Summerfleld
Had bought a London bankrupt’s stock so cheap,
That they can sell at prices sure to make
Each other draper in his envy weep.*
Wolfe's Schnapps, the purest, safest, and
best article of its kind in use.
SOCIALITIES, ’B6, Is. (post Is. 33.) now ready.
150 illustrations. Have you seen the editions for
’B3, ’B4, and ’B5 ? Then you will be sure to buy the
present work! All booksellers. Alex. M'Kinley
and Co., Sydney.
Premier ball-room decorators of New
South Wales. Sale and Dare, decorators. Bali
and banquet rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations, 60>$ Hunter-street
Sydney.*
Marie Brizard I
As an antidote to the consequence of late
hours Wolfe’fl Schnapps stands preeminent,


REGISTERED UNDER THE COMPANIES’ ACT. 1874.
PROSPECTUS
OP
tee idu uni, non, mi fh cmnir,
X.IMITSD.
Capital . 1100,000 Starling, In 100,000 Shares off £1 each.
CALLS-—One Shilling per Share upon Application ; One Shilling on Allotment, and the balance, if required, in One Shilling
Calls at intervals of one month.
JOHN KIDD, Esq., M.P. for Camden.
J. F. MARTIN, Esq., A.M. Inst., Civil Engineer, Sydney.
JOHN H. NATHAN, Esq., Merohant, Sydney.
P, J. FARRELL, Esq., Merohant, Sydney.
G. B. THOMAS, Esq., Solioitor, Sydney.
ARNOLD MATHEY, Esq., Merohant, Hunter-street.
JOHN YANN, Esq. (Vann, Barrington & Co ), Engineers and Iron Founders, Sydney.
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORY-
FRANCIS ABIG AIL, Esq., M.P. for West Sydney.
H. P. PaLSER. Esq.. Merchant, Sydney.
Dr. G. H. MONTEITH, F.1t.C.8., Sydney.
H. C. ROBERTS, Esq., Gentleman, Sydney.
JOHN BCOTT, Esq, Wholesale Stationer, Sydney.
C. 8. GILLETT, Esq. (Gillett, Frere3, B jrdeaux, & Reims), Sydney.
A. MURRAY, Esq. (A. Murray & Co.), Tea Merchant, Sjdney.
Temporary Office - -32 KING STREET ARCADE.
Secretary—R. M. CALL AN AN, late Manager of the Bank of Australasia.
Solicitor-—J. M. CURTIS, Esq., Phillip-street, Sydney. Auditors—Messrs. CHAB. KENT and Gr. A. BUCK, Pitt-street,
Bankers—LONDON CHARTERED BANK.
The Share List will close on the 20tli July, a large number of shares having been already absorbed. Shares will be allotted in
order of application.
Applications for Shares to be addressed to the Sydney Offices of the Company, 32 King-street Arcade.
Cheques and Post Office Orders to be crossed to the Company’s Bankers, THE LONDON CHARTERED BAftiK, Sydney.
This Company is formed for the purpose otoonduoting a commercial loan business upon
mercantile principles by making cash advanoes and guarantees to Merchants, Traders,
and private persons, upon the seourity of Bills of Lading, Storage and Bond Certificates,
Deeds Shares in Banks and publio Companies, Bills of Sale, Government and Municipal
securities, &o.; also discounting Trade Bills and advances upon any adequate security.
The suooess attending this class of business by all Loan Offices and Companies is well
known, suffioe to say that investments in a Company of this kind are a certainty, and the
Company can secure such profits as will ensure good, if not large dividends for its share-
holders, without resorting to the usurious rates charged by private Loan Offices, and in
so doing the Direotors anticipate that the Company will be amply compensated by largely
increased business.
It will not be out of place to refer to the prosperity attained by other Companies of a
kindred character—viz., the Mercantile Finance, Guarantee and Agency Ctimpany,
Limited, upon whose shares only 255. is paid up, is now selling at 325., having paid 10 per
cent last dividend, and oarryingconsiderable sum to reserve; the Trustee, Executor, and
Agency Company, Limited, whose shares are only £l paid up, are now worth 545. 6d., or
over 150 per cent, (one hundred and fifty per oent.) premium ; and the Union Mortgage and
Agency Company, Limited, of Australia (also £1 paid up), is now worth3ts. (vide Stock and
Share iteports). All these Companies, in addition to paying good dividends, have also con-
siderable sums in reserve. The success thus pointed out is almost unprecedented, ren-
dering further comment superfluous.
The Company’s advances will only be made by the Direotors upon ample and taugible
securities of a commercial oharaoter, after proper valuation by the Company’s valuers.
They will not act as Pawnbrokers, as it is desirable that the Company should attain such
tone as to make it a favourite medium with commercial men. The advanoes will also be
at short call, usually one to four months, or repayable by instalments.
The Company will also reoeive money on deposit at market rates of interest.
Business of the Company,
By its Incorporation, this Company will be enabled to transaot business that the Banks
cannot entertain, being contrary to their Charters, although of a muoh safer and more
profitable character 1 , and this Company will make no advances whatever without ample
security and fair profits. In addition to this they will a'so transaot ordinary banking
business for such Merchants or Traders who have only limited or no banking accom-
modation.
It will thus be seen that there is ample scope for the Company’s operations, and, in fact
the necessity of a respectable Company for this class of business has long been recognised
in commercial circles.
It is also desirable to point out that Bbares in this Company are not a speculation but an
investment through which surplus funds oan be profitaoly employed to the best advantage
with ample security, so that large or small sums of money can be depended upon to return
far larger percentages of profits than any bank will pay for deposits. In addition to whioh
the Company’s stock will no doubt almost immediately be at premium, so that money
invested in snares will not be locked up, but will be available whenever required. J
The Company can also advance money to its members, when required, upon Shares held
by them.
It being desirable that the Company’s proprietary should inolude all classes in the
community, no more than 21)00 shares will be issued to any single person. The Calls are
also made at suoh a rate as to enable this result to be attained.
A large number of shares having already been applied for, the balanoe are now offered
to the public, whioh will be alloted in the order applied for, until the share-list is com-
plete.
The General Meetings of the Company will be held half-yearly, when balance-sheets will
be submitted and the dividends declared.
In placing the balanoe of shares of this Company on the market, the Directors submit
with every confidence that it is equal to any now before the publio as a safe and nrofttahifi
investment, suitable for all classes in the community, 1
Share List Closes on tho 20th July.
Intending Shareholders will please forward this to the Sydney Offices of the Company, 32 King-street Arcade.
Application for Shares,
TO THE DIRECTORS OF
THE AUSTRALIAN LOAN, DISCOUNT, AND FINANCIAL COMPANY, LIMITED,
SYDNEY.
GENTLEMEN,
Herewith please find enclosed the sum of £ : : , being deposit of One Shilling ((Is.) per Share on Shares in the AUSTRALIAN LOAN,
DISCOUNT, and FINANCIAL COMPANY, LIMITED. I request you to allot me that or any less number of Shares, subject to the Company’s registered Memorandum and Articles
of Association, to which I hereby subscribe, and request my name being attached thereto; and I agree to accept the same, and to pay cabs thereoD, and request my name being
placed upon the Register of Members for the number of Shares allotted to me,
Name in full
Address.
Profession (if any)
Date.


#-t]T6RIQT\
J» . D€CQ J P v AflOl),g
! 6- '
A'kti sTig s K i
u
r
■£& '? <£*i ~ji ' f~‘ I M
ES 4
.. <• _ 5?./
J? ,•-'*
&•«%
;V:
.*! V '.t
w
8»
SB
; i?P -
.:-. ■
C
, J - < "'„ •-
¥8
3V-.
<f V
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
ROYAL FXJRNSfeHIRG ARCADE,
426 GEORGE STREET (next to the Royal Hotel.)
fgh
dfgh
dfg
£
hdfgh
Fop Renewing Ebonized Cabinets,
Desks, Workboxes, &c.
For Reviving Plates, Knobs, Locks, &c. 1
For Renewing Carriage Lamps.
For Painting Picture Frames, &c., &c.
1/- and 2/6 per Bottle. Sold by Chemists, Stationers, Storekeepers, &c., &c.
DANIEL JUDSON & SON (LIMITED), London and Ntw York.
dfg
Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE SURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
k\\
m
Bcrofula on Neck
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsoni' Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseaaes of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cutichtra Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautiflers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Coticura Soap and a single application of
Cutioura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puii-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Bipod
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
! $1.05; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared rt the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
(Established 1800),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon Is the Government Auc-
tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &0.. from the Southern
Colonies or New Zealand, may be made to Arthur
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
Her Majesty the Quean,
H.R.H. ihe Prince of tVaies.
H.M. the King of the Netherlands ,
hdf
H.I.M. the Czar of Russia.
Agents tor W«w joutn Wales:
TRAPP & ELLES,
54 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic-
Doloreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary! In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to bo the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H, A, ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
531 George-street, only.
C. LOUGHNAN,
Importer, Manufacturer, & Wholesale Dealer In
TOBACCOS, CIGARS, CIGARETTES,
And TOBACCONISTS’ GOODS.
The Largest Stock of above in South Sydney to
select from.
Manufacturer of the undermentioned Registered
Cigarettes " Lord Carrington,” “ Our Boys,”
“ All Nations.” “ Prince Imperial,” “ Our Girls,”
Boston Bride,” and our •* Soudan Boy.”
Tobaccos.—” Boston Navy,” “Prince Imperial,”
"Soudan Navy.”
Sole Agent for
PARNELL’B HOME RULE NAVY TOBACCO.
A large supply received in stock. Each plug a
reasonable week’s supply. Priee 6d.
Warehouse and Stores :
639 and 714 GEORGE STREET,
HAYMARKET, BYDNEY.
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
3RAJJI
NERV
A*
TREATMENT-^
Dr. E. C. West’s Nerve and Brain Treatment, a
fuaranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions,
'its, Nervous Neuralgia, Headache, Nervous Prostration
caused by the use of alcohol or tobacco, Wakefulness,
Mental Depression, Softening of the Brain resulting in
insanity and leading to misery, decay, and death, Premature
Old Age, Barrenness, Loss of Power in either sex, Involun-
tary Losses and Spermatorrhoea caused by over-exertion of
the brain, self-abuse or over-indulgence. Each box contains
one month's treatment. ss. a box, or six boxes for 255., sent
by mail prepaid on receipt of price. We Guarantee Six
Boxes to Cure any Case. With each order received by
us for six boxes, accompanied with 255., we will send the
purchaser our written guarantee to refund the money if the
treatment does not effect a cure. Guarantees issued only by
JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
65 MARKET SEREET, SYDNEY,
Circular sent free on application.
,£lOO Reward!
We will pay the above reward for any case of liver com
plaint, dyspepsia, sick headache, indigestion, constipation or
costiveness, we cannot cure with West’s Vegetable Liver
Pills, when the directions are strictly complied with. They
are' purely vegetable, and never fail to give satisfaction'
Large boxes, containing 30 sugar-coated pills, Is. For sale
by -all druggists. Beware of counterfeits and imitations.
The genuine manufactured only by
JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
65 Market-street Sydney, N.S.W.
Sent Prepaid by post on receipt of Is. per box in stamps.
w w w
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMFNT.
Infallible remedy for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
Gout, Sprains, Cuts, Burns, Scalds, Braises, Headache,
Mumps, Hip Disease, White Swelling, Felons, Chilblains,
Whitlows, Chapped Hands, Frozen Feet, Bites of Insects,
Sore Throat, and all diseases requiring external application.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers.
Price, Is. and 2s. per Bottle.
JOHN C. WEST & CO., Sole Proprietors,
SYDNEY, CHICAGO, and
TORONTO.
GOOD NEWS FOR THE MUSIC
LOVING PUBLIC.
A BRANCH OF THE
MUSICAL lISTEUMEUT
DIRECT SUPPLY ASSOCIATION
Is NOW OPEN at
674 GEORGKE-BT., SYDNEY,
With the Largest Stock of Musical Instruments in
the Southern Hemisphere,
AT LONDON PRICfIS, SO per cent, less than
Sydney prices,
Direct from the European manufacturers to
the Australian consumer.
4/fl, S/6, 7/6, 9/6, 12/6, 17/6, 21/-, 25/. 30/.
45/, to £2O.
Specialty: The German-Anglo, in wood box, 21/-
„ Ditto, superior, with steel notes, 35/-
:
ACCORDEONS
tpecialty : The miniature Melodian, 21/-.
Ditto, oak, with steel notes, 42/-.
10/6. IS/-. 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Specialty: Old Copy Violin, with case, bow and
instruction book, 35/-.
CORNETS, “ 4# -' 13 “-
Specialties : The new “ Levy ” model,
with water key £5 5 0
„ The new “ Reynolds” model,
with double water key .. 9 10 0
The new “ Reynolds" Echo-
attachment Cornet .. 12 10 0
From 1/6 to £lO.
About 100 varieties in stock.
Specialty : The 8-key Cocoa D Concert Flute,
with slide-head, in case, by
best English maker 80/*
THE SYRSPHONETTE!
In nickel silver, with six tunes, 30/-.
Extra tur.es, 1/- each.
From 5/6 each to £lO.
The “Walter Howard” American Nickel BaDjo.
£3 3s.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands furnished
throughout. Negro Minstrel Troupes fitted out.
Clarionets, Violin Strings and Fittings, Msgeolets,
Drums, Guitars, Harmonicons, Tambourines,
and, in fact, an assortment of every class
of Musical Instrument, from a
Jei’siHirituUllp
All instruments carefully packed and forwarded
to any part of the colonies.
lquis mmmmw,
MANAGES,


/
\
3tg
A POETLY JINGO.
The Chairman of the Sydney Primrose League.
WILLIAM FLEMING
22 & 24 CLARENCE STREET, SYONfcY
fleminss
RELIABLE
BOSSIES.
FIRST GRADE,
STYLE,
QUALITY,
and
FINISH.
USED by ALL the
Leading Citisens.
NOT HOW CHEAf,
BUT HOW GOOD 1
t
FLEMINGS
WAGGONS
and
Harness,
[Specially Imported'
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
With Bide Springs.
WAGGONB,
With Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Call and Inspect.
S
AGUARANTEEwith
each pipe for real
Meerschaum and
Amfer.
Fire-proof Briars. Repairs &o.
S. ROSENTHAL, Pipemakei,
1 Llitle Collins-street, East, Melbourne.
Illustrated Catalogues on application
FJI HE CLIMAX OF FFkFKC TIONj
MONTSERRAT
LIME [FRUIT JUICE SAUCE.
3
EZ? [ SOLD t EYERY WHERE.
GENTLEMEN’B clothes repaired
AND CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Near Market-street.
r ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
i Three Gold Medals—
PARIS,IB7B; CALCUTTA. 1884,
for pre eminent excellence of quality,
f ESSENCE OF WHITE ROSE
FRANGIPANNE I YLANG YLANG
I STEPHANOTIS lOPAPaNAX
I and other well-known Perfumes are un-
I equalled lor thuir delightful and lasting odour
Atkinson’s celebrated
EATJ DE COLOGNE.
Unsurpassed for its strength and delightful
fragrance. It is far superior to the numerous
compounds sold under the same name.
Of all Dealers , and of the Manufacturers ~-
J A E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London
Trade Mark—““White Rose” on“ Golden
ERVOUSNESS, LOSS of ENERGY and
STRENGTH.—A Gentleman, having tried in
vain every advertised remedy, and discovered a
simple means of cure, "will he happy to forward
particulars to sufferers on receipt of stamped
directed envelope. . _
Address —“ Confidential,” G.P.0., Sydney.
ORGANS! j
SOLE AGENTS FOB THE
“ SMITH.”
BRUCE a MASSEY,
FIDS, gum MUSIC.
197 Pi&t-sf
OFFORD & CO.’S HAIS
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
Next to Royal Hotel, and at 652 George Street.
ghdf
SAUCF
il4iip£if®Ns
?£S£ES7EMIK'»!S!
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label on every bottle
bears their Signature thus —
£ Os
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask for LEA and PERRINS 1 Sauce,-arid see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
Stopper. Wholesale and for Expor tbv the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse and
Blackwell, London, Sfc. , <Wc.; and bv Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World,
Wholesale Agents : Montefiore, Joseph & Co.; David Cohen & Co., Sydney.
gh
The "LOUIS’*
. VELVETEEN,
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, While the peculiar arrangements resulting i n the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes and
Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact
for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
may be used we specially recommend
the “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of " Louis,”
May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
send patterns
POST FREE OD
application-
dfgh
dfg
ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS.
.American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
27 YOftK STREET,
: SYDNEY,.
Vww
wa
MM
1 1
UlUfflDII
SPECIALLY HIPOBTID FOB CITY OB COUNTRY USB,
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
a—
STERLING QUALITY.
▲i
LOWEST PRICES;.
m«mi& b
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
Bar EVERY VEHICLE GUABi NTEEjj


S 5
A PROFESSIONAL VIEW.
Ist. PRO : “ SAT, DID YOU HEAR THAT TOT TIE VILLIERS HAD FOUR RIBS, A LEU, AND
AN ARM BROKEN BY A COACH-ACCIDENT.”
Sad. Pro. : “RATHER; ISN'T BHE A DAISY AT ADVERTISING? SHE’LL GET A LAW-
SUIT AGAINST THE DOCTOR, ANOTHER AGAINST THE COACH-OWNER, AND
WHOLE HEAPS OF PARS. IT’S JUST A FORTUNE TO HER.”
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DIVING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
.Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, fee.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing. Blaoksmlthlng,
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
DOULTON’B "FLUSH-OUT," "VALVE.” & “PAN” CLOSETS, "VACUUM” WATEB-WASTI
PREVENTERS, fee.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and prioe on application.
BO BE K T BUTCHER * C.O
(Late William Loner),
gr WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT.
68i GEORGE STREET,
OPPOBITI THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Ordera receive prompt attention.
RAW VASELINE.
/'7>
/
U
TTORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
|~| Collar Check and Serge, 40 and 44 inches ;
Large assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s Saddles, Spurs, and all kinds of
Saddlers’ Ironmongery, &c.
BLACKBURN & C 0„
WHOLESALE SADDLERS, AND SADDLERS
IRONMONGERS,
125 YORK ST., SYDNEY.
tar THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED:,
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as fellows:—SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
'CENT on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
J. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
Narrow Escape.
** * Rochester, June 1, 1882. “ Ten Tears
ago I was attacked with the most Intense and
deathly pains in my back and —Kidneys
“ Extending to the end ef my toes and to
my hrain !
“ Which made me delirious !
“From agony ! ! ! !
“ It took three men to hold me on my bed
at times !
“ The Doctors tried in vain to relieve me,
but to no purpose.
Morphine and other opiates !
“Had no effect!
“ After two months I was given up to
die !!! !
“ When my wife
heard a neighbour tell what Hop Bitters had
done for her , she at once got and gave me
some. The first dose eased my brain and
seemed to go hunting through my system
for the pain.
The second dose eased me so much that I slept
two hours. Something I had not done for two
months. Before I had used five bottles, I was well
and at work as hard as any man could, for over
three weeks; but I worked too hard for my
strength, and taken a hard cold, I was taken with
the most acute and painful rheumatism all through
my system that was ever known.
“ I called the doctors again, and. after severa,
weeks they left me a cripple on oruiches for lifej
as they said. I met a friend and told him my case,
and he 3aid Hop Bitters had cured him and would
cure me. I poohed at him, but he was so earnest
I was induced to use them again.
In less than four weeks I threw away my crutches
and went to work lightly and kept on using the
bitters for five weefes, until I became as well as
any man living, and have been so for six years
since.
It has also oured my wife, who had been
sick for years; and has kept her and my
children well and healthy with from two to
three bottles a year. There is no need to be
sick at all if these hitters are used.
J. J. Berk, Ex-Supervisor.
“ That poor invalid wife, Sister, Mother,
“Or daughter !! ! !
“ Can he made the picture of health l
with a few bottles of Hop Bitters J
“ Will you let them suffer!!! f*
Prosecute the Swindlers X !
If when you call for American Hop Bitters (see
green twig of Hops on the white label and Dr. Soule’s
name blown in the bottle), the vendor hands out
anything but American Hop Bitters refuse it and
shun that vendor as you would a viper; and if he
has taken your money for anything else indiot him
for the fraud and sue him tor damages for the
swindle, and we will pay you liberally for the con-
viction.
Never Travel Without It:
Wanted in Every House.
hdf
gh
FLEAS. FLIES. BEETLES MOSQU ITOES
COCKROACHES.^SA i : AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESS TO BIRDS DOGS
FOWLS OR OTHER
dfg
<*■ X o
/V x*
sd
FELTON-CRIMWADEV.C?
- MELBOURNE
Wanted in Every House.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
PATENT
PILLS.
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind arid pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of beat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, coStive-
ness,scurvy, blotch&SOii
the skin,disturbed Sleep;
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &e. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
done it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, ana
they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For femal.es of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few dosfes of Ihym carry off all gross humours,
open all obstruction®, and bring about all that is
required. No femjale should be without them. There
is no medicine to be .found to equal BEECHAM’S
PILLS for removing akny obstruction or irregularity
of the system. If taken according to the directions
given with each bax theyvwiil soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robutfit health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion anti all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to “work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
; strengthen the whole imisorflar system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring hack the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical .energy of the human
frame. These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &e., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
: any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the hast ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest, They
■ speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
1 They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Beecham’s
‘Cough Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be
removed.
j Cautioh.— The public are requested to notice that
the words “ Beecham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d.
'each. —Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
| N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
The New Furniture and
Carnet Warehouse.
s&am
hi, Imi In:,, & Co.,
39 CAS TLERE AGU STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
‘AT
Loss than English Prices.
BIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
With three spare leaves, In
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING ROOMS,
At tha Exceedingly Low Price of £5 IBs.
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER BUITES,
At Correspondingly Low Prices.
Furniture for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY.
THE DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING-ROOM
i BLACK AND BRABS BEDSTEADS,
In Great Variety.
JONES, LAWSON BROS,, St CO.
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
FREE BY POST, for six penny stamps, a
Medical Treatise, by that eminent French
Hospital Physican and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Man
hood, &c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address Parisian, P.O. Box 766, Sydney,
s
umm
LIMITED,
356 Csorgo-stria^
Have the
LARGEST AND BBEtf
SELECTED STOCK
of
PIANOS, ORGANS’
and
MUSIC
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EASY TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
■very Instrument Guaranteed.!
Catalogues & Prices on Application.
W. H. PALING a Co.
SB6 Seorge-street, Sydney.
’O') sjopio At?unoQ
'3OJJ 'jsod sonSopADQ
*i3Nais ‘xaanxs xxih sob ‘aavonv xooh
S.SOOHAa KYITOAV
AV9IA uo R}[oog
pireqpuooog pun gSjtfTIOA Ul/U JO
poSumpxg; jo ‘ppg ‘qqSnog
'Shoor - saooa ‘ssoos
WILLIAM BULLARD’B GREAT SALE OF
MUSIC, STATIONERY, and FANCY
GOODS. Expiration of Lease, and Condemnation
of Premises. Continued Great Sale of Mosie,
Stationery Books, Fancy Goods, including the
most extraordinary collection of the choicest
Japanese Works of Arts, Plaques, Bowls, CleisoDni
Vases, &c., the whole of which must be cleared
out. Discount 36 Der cent, reduction on the old
prices. Music.—Thirty shillings worth of music at
the old prioes can now be had for One Pound. This
grand stock comprises, amoDgst other items,
Sheet Music, Songs, Solos, and Duets
Piano Pieces, Solos, and Duets, and all the newest'
and most popular Dance Music
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &c.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &o.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety
Book Music—all the most popular works
BOOKS comprise every kind of Literature—Pre-
sentation Volumes, in prose and verse ; Books,-
suitable for prizes for boys and girls; Nautical
Works, Books on Engineering and Surveying,
Dictionaries, &e.; and a choice library of Rell- -
gious works, by standard authors. „
JAPANESE BRONZES, Wall Hangings. Em-
broideries, Vases, Plaques, Fans, Ash Trays, -
and Tea Trays
PHOTO. ALBUMS in Plush, Morocco, Leather,
and Calf, profusely illustrated, all sizes, at
wonderfully low prices
ACCOUNT BOOKS, Ledgers, Day and Cash Books;
Press Copying Books in every style and bind-
ing, or made to order
LETTER PAPER, Envelopes, the cheapest in
Sydney. Samples and prices may be obtained
on application.
HANDBAGS, Purses, Card Cases, Photo. Frames,
of every kind and description
ARTISTS’ MATERIALB-Solid Sketch Blocks,
Drawing Copies, Paint Boxes, Mathematical
Instruments, &c.
Music Catalogues gratis on application.
Goods forwarded on receipt of money order 01
postage stamps.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
M 2 GEORGE STREET.


TWO WAYS OF LOOKING AT IT.
DE FERE: "BY JOVE, Kn, THERE'S A SPLENDID WAIST.”
FITZ.-BROWN (who is married): “YES, BE GLAD TO GET HOME AND TAKE IT OFF
WON’T SHE?”
X? )->■
* '
c*
V' -
dfg
GOT '
& 'oyzt-O
Shoe Bazaar
25 h George S * *-’>
Lale Peaie ancL ffai'courh SYDJfJEY
MALTINE.
MALTED BARLEY, WHEAT AND OATS.
The only Extract of Malt containing these three cereals.’
One Bottle of Maltine is equal (in digestive power) to from 3 tO 5 bottles
of any extract of Malt in the Market.
Digestive value 30 times its own weight.
“Wheat and Oats are especially rich in muscular ancl fat producing
elements. —Liebeg.”
Maltine Will increase both the weight atad fl. sh in most persons of thin habit.
Highly recommended for delicate fern ales, weak and debilitated
children and infants, and for mothers whilst nursing.
Is very palatable and will be readily taken by the youngest child.
Maltine is invaluable in cases of Consumption, Wasting Diseases, Nervous |
Debility, <fcc., Indigestion, Constipation, and convalescence from Illness.
Prescribed and Recommended by all the leading Physicians and used in the largest
Hospitals. Analysed and approved by the most prominent Chemists of Europe.
Maltine with Pepsine and Pancreatine is the best remedy known
for Dyspepsia, Cholera Infantum, and all diseases resulting from imperfect
digestion. There are fewcases that will not readily yield to this preparation.
Maltine with Hypophosphites is most valuable in cases of Consump-
tion, Rickets, Softening of the Bones, and Neuralgia.
Malto Yerbine is the most effective remedy for Bronchitis, Coughs,
Colds, and difficult Expectoration.
Maltine With Cod Liver Oil, an agreeable and effective mode of adminis-
tering Cod Livor Oil.
Maltine with Iron and Quinine, or Iron, Quinine and Strych-
nine a most powerful and nutritive tonic for General Debility, &c.
Maltine with Phpsphorus Compound is especially adapted for all
overworked brains and those of sedentary habits, suffering from General
Lassitude.
Maltine with Alteratives is a remedy of the highest value in all depraved
conditions of the blood, Scrofula, &c.
SOLO BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIMITED, LONDON.
(CONCENTRATED BEEF, WHEAT, AND MILK).
Containing 95 per Cent, oi nutritious matter. There is nothing to equal
it as a flesh-former, fat and bone producer. Pleasant in odour
andtaste to the most delicate persons.
It is invaluable in cases of Convalescence from all diseases, Pulmonary
affections, Fevers, Pneumonia, Weak Digestion, Gastritis, and ail
Stomach Ailments, Dyspepsia, Diarrhoea, Dysentery and all Intestinal
Diseases, Phthisis, Cholera Infantum, Marasmus, Vomiting in Pregnancy,
Sea Sickness, Diabetes, Excessive use of Alcoholic Stimulants, and in
debility resulting from any cause.
Also a valuable adjunct in voyages and camp life. It will build up the system
after severe prostration.
It contains all of the valuable constituents of Beef, Wheat, and Milk.
Pemg in the form of a dry powder it will keep m any climate.
A few spoonfuls equal to a hearty meal, and being partially digested,
makes but little demand upon the digestive powers.
it possesses 60 times more nutritive substance than Beef Tea, Mutton
or Chicken Broth made in. the ordinary manner.
One ounce of Beef Peptonoids contains more nourishment than five
pints of beef tea prepared from eighty ounces of beef,
contains ten times more nutritive matter than Liebig’s Extract of Beef
or similar productions.
Inro rt BCri^f d i an * d recor nmended by all leading Physicians, and used in the
largest Hospitals. Analysed and approved by the most eminent chemists in Europe.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
TEE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIM., LONDON.
PAUL LIEBE
UNLIKE OTHERS.
DOES NOT^^
ffM*
l H
W
m
FROM
ALCHEMISTS
INI0&200Z BDT S
WHOLESALE AGENT
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL pre-
serves, strengthens, and beautifies the hair: it
contains no lead or mineral ingredients, and can
now be also had in a golden colour, which is
especially suited for fair or golden-haired children
and persons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a most
cooling, healing, and refreshing wash for the face,
hands and arms, and is perfectly free from any
mineral or metallic admixtures; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &o.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE
produeps immediately a perfect change in red or
grey hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a glossy and
permanent brown or black, which colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 80 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bros
E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
D* RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
MDE. DE NDUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that It is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and E. Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge; Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless Imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
J. BUTTERFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
•treet, Redfern.
Linen. Q-less
•^’bra.lb.a.aaa.’s
Fills
The Great Liver Remedy.
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
Slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form c 1
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
Imm edlate relief.
484 GEORGE STREET.
r
TRADE MARK—“TONTC NERVINE.”
ABaJTB, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE ior Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia!
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power
See. By its tonic and soothing effects It at onoe
removes all craving for Alcohol. By Its richness
In phosphorsus and other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE nour-
ishes and gives vigour ta the whole system.
Price, is. 6d., or 85s. a case. Sold everywhere
Proprietors. MARSHALL BROTHERS. Registered
Chemists, 104-6 Market-st., Sydney. N.B -All imi
Nations illegal. TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE
A Blessing in every Family.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT
There is not a eountry in the civilised world*
wnere the healmg virtues of these grand medi-
cines have not been recognised by thousands of
sufforßrs
In all the ordinary ailments* of humanity their
beneficent action is at once recognised
Fullest directions are supplied for their use in
every disease.
IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxeord-bt., London
Purchasers should look to the Label on the
Boxes and Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-
street, London, they are spurious.
PROVIDENCE
Helpsthose who help themselves. Nature hasprovlded
herb* for the cure of human ailments, and medical
soienoe has discovered their healing powers, and the
proper combinations necessary to conquer disease.
The result of these discoveries and combinations is—
Dr. BELL’S BITTERS.
For many years it has been tested in severe cases of
Kidney and Liver Diseases, Malaria, Dyspepsia, In-
digestion, Weakness, Lassitude, iie., and invariably it
has given relief and cure. Thousands of testimonials
have been given, and is most popular where best
known.
DAILY AND HOURLY EVENTS.
HeadacJie.— The stomach is disordered. Cleanse
and settle it with Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
Indigestion. —Start the Secretions of the Stomach
with Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
Jaundice . —Blood poisoned by Bile. Correct the
liver by using Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
loss of Appetite.—The Stomach is failing. First
oleanse is; then tone with Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
Torpidity.— lnaction of Liver. Start it up with
Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
Nausea.— Reaction of Bile. Correct Stomaoh and
liver with Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
Malaria.— Poison in the Blood. Purify by starting
the Liver with Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
Nervousness;— Deranged Stomach Function. Cor.
reot and tone with Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
Night Sweats.— Weakness. Strengthen and tone
the system with Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
Nor*.—Any poor Person, or the Manager of any
Hospital, Asylum, or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously, upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
BELL’S BITTERS
Manufacturing Company,
HEW FOBS, LONBOIf, CANADA,
HBW ZEALAND & AUSTRALIA.
BUTCHER, FEHON & CO., Sydney
AGHNTS FOB
Vow South Wales and Queensland*
he only infallible remedy for
J)ebiLijyT
THERE are many men In this oolony who are,
day by day, melancholy, miserable, and a
burden to themselves, through early indiscretion
or over-indulgence. It is to those that this adver-
tisement is addressed. Impotence drags its victim
in its unhappy train through years of suffering,
rendering his existence a misery. He sees his
fellow beings Bale, hearty, and vigorous—in the
full enjoyment of manhood’s greatest privilege—
and naturally becomes despondent, seeking soli-
tariness, and shunning society generally.
He is lured into trying some of the So-called
Remedies, but without avail, and imagines he
must go down to the grave a hopeless invalid. If
such be your calamity, know that your case oan
be relieved and a Cure effected by a simple course
of this Invaluable Medicine, which will, in the
short space of Four Weeks, render you capable
of appreciating and Enloying Lit '.
This valuable remedy affords relief, and perma-
nently cures all who suffer from Wasting and
Withering of the Nervous and Museular Tissues,
Spermatorrhoea, and all Urinary Deposits, which
cause incapacity and degeneracy, total and partial
prostration, and every other exhaustive derange-
ment of the system—regenerating all the im-
portant elements of the human frame, and en-
abling man to fulfil his most sacred obligations.
The directions are very simple, and require no
restraint or hindrance from business. Pamphlets
enclosed in each case with testimonials.
In cases at 125., or four quantities in one, for 30s. J
if by coach, 2s. 6d. extra. City and suburbs free.
Agents for Sydney:
Messrs. W. BARCLAY &'CO.,
43 Goulburn Street,
One door from George Street, South.
Parcels, packed securely, and free from obser-
vation, sent to any part of the colony on receipt
of Notes, Pest Office Order, or Postage Stamps,
with the greatest promptitude.
MOULTON’S
tFt?t I J’ L AF T P o ® cured by MOULTON'S
£RUii. PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and na
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
JBILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit).
I hey are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, I»riee Is. 3d,
0. E, MOULTON, Sole Proprietor,
PIUS


Woman Items
A Ballarat lady, a great grandmother and
73 years of age, is about to marry a min of 58. We
wonder what’s his little game ?
At a recent wedding at Bethnal-green,
England, the friends of the “ happy couple ” per-
manently blinded the bridegroom by throwing
rice into his eyes. He was led away to an in-
firmary.
Advertisement from an Adelaide paper:—
‘l,Eilen Peters, contradict the false statement
about my son (John) being married. Any further
proceedings will be taken.—E. Peters, Yatala,
June 26,1836 ”
A “ BULLETINIC ” BACHELOR’3 REPLY.
“ It is not meet that man should live alone’’—
a Bible par—
“lt is not meat,but drink, and that, you know,
is better far.”
The English papers are growing excited
because a dootor has slit open a young lady’s
stomach and successfully removed therefrom a
mass of hair weighing about a pound. The young
lady probably slept with her mouth open, and her
back hair drifted down her throat during the
silent watches of the night.
A couple who should be industriously
engaged in preparing to meet their Maker are
petitioning for a judicial separation in Melbourne.
Their united ages tot up to 141, If the judge is
not smarter than ordinary getting in his decision,
it is feared old Death will take the law into his
own hands.
Advt. from the London Morning Post
"A gentleman, well connected, desires immediate
pecuniary assistance from a lady or gentleman to
enaole him to realise an inoome of £3003 a year;
very haudsome remuneration for prompt help. If
a lady assists it may lea i to a very advantageous
social ad vane ament. Address, ‘Matri’ (8237), 19
Wellington-street, Strand.”
“There will be a merry laugh, and some-
thing of pity too, between the women and men
(note, not men and women) of the future, perhaps
during their swim or game of cricket together—
when they talk of the kangaroo-footed, waist-
distorted, hobbling monstrosities custom and
fashion are making on the women of the present
day.” That is a slab of Mrs Dugdale’s sentiments-
Mrs. D. is the Melbourne lady who lately gained
notice by her fierce denunciations of that pleasant
* trifle, the kiss.
A London journalist puts in a plea for those
“ladies" who crowded toe court to stare at Ade-
laide Bartlett (lately accused of poisoning), as if
she were some fresh-eaugnt monstrosity, instead
ot being merely a sister in distress. He contends;
that they attended from motives of humanity, and
points out that “the presence of other women
would ne a grateful and acceptable face to a
woman prisoner, who would otherwise have been
exposed to the eyes of men alone,” Tnis idea did
not strike ns before, but we are deeply impressed
by its truth, and we can fanoy the feelings of the
unhappy creature in the dock witn oniy men
around her. Her loneliness in such circumstances
could only he equalled by that of .the early Chris-
tian, who, after weeks and montns of solitary con-
finement, was sentenced to ha thrown to the
tiger, and looked forward joyfully to the prospect
of that quadruped’s companionship to break the
monotony of life. But when he was turned into
the arena, the tiger was not there, and he died of
the disappointment. Perhaps Adelaide Bartlett
would have died too, if she had been left in that
courthouse without even a tiger to keep her
company.
A Melbourne Divorce-Court decisioa
strikingly shows what may happen in Victoria to
an unprotected male. Twenty-eight years ago
Mik« O Connor, then aged 23, took to himself a
wife of 15, and lived with her for three months,
at the end of which time he discovered she had
faults. The principal ground of complaint was
that her temper was worse than that of a cock-
alligator, and the remaras which she made to her
husband when any household difficulties arose,
were composed mainly of flying furniture, so that
Michael constantly found himself called upon to
camp out on the shortest notice. Three months
of married life were followed by six of separation,
and then the unhappy O’Connor made a second
attempt at domestio happiness. What happened
on this occasion is not accurately stated, hut
apparently his home was stirred by a perpetual
struggle between the Powers of Evil and what
the poetic native of Asia terms the Spirit of
Connubial Joy, with the invariable result that the
spirit would emerge from the side-door with his
mouth in his hand and three broken legs. Finally,
in 1860, the peaceful home of O'Connor burst up
for good, and six years later the grass-widow
took a fiendish revenge on a man named
Walters by marrying him. Since then O’Con-
iior seems to have waited in the hope
that a runaway bullock or a falling chimney
might set him free, but for 20 years the lady with
the two husbands has dodged all kinds of disaster,
and whenever avenging Fate threw a dirt at her
she bobbed down audit struck some one standing
bemud instead. 4t l»at .d.iuh*el O Oouuoi: took
reiugu iu the D.vuroa Court, oul/ to bs told inau
he baa waited t o long to have any claim to re-
dress, and ne aow wanders about blighted, like a
-flower eut off in ns bloom, waiting for tbe lime
when he wtu crawi up tbe golden spout to a iaaa
Where there are no mure marriages.
, SOCI vLICTES, 86, la. (post la. 3d.), now ready.
450 wooa-cuts. l'he Dook for maiden, masher,
young-and old All tookaellers. Alex. M’Kinley
and Cj., Sydney,
CORRESPONDECE
IVorretpondenta yon give rmther name nor nom-de-
plums cannot expect to have their com-
munication! noticed. 1
“ J. B”—-(Heaven only knows what the rest of
your name is—it reads like" Borndrunk”): Please
send a printed slip explaining why you don’t write
legibly...." George Howson”: It wasnotDllkethe
Radical who was beaten at Chelsea election; it was
Dilkethe “masher.” No ; Henry 111.
reigned 56 years, and George 111. nearly 60 years.
....“J. Jones” (Newcastle): The first amusing one
of the kind we have seen. The author would be cap-
able of writing out a mortgage in metre...." Yor s”:
Archer has never been in Australia “Dyn”:
Both item 3 tropioally libellous “ T.W.8.” (St.
Kilda): Thanks "W. Darling”: Thanks. The
League will be joined by “ all the servile and silly
crew that regard it as the summit of human hap-
piness to grovel.” “James Ram”: The
total yield of gold from the Charters Towers
field last year was 130,0850 z “Japonica”
(Rookwood) : Afraid you’ll never write any
poetry which is not of the Town and Kun-
try Jernel order. Tell us, do you really
live at Rookwood, or are you buried in the big
local cemetery ? You write:—
“ The rolling of the ship sickened some;
Their dinners went to feed the fishes;
Aod then they rushed down below,
And used basins, buckets, and dishes.
" I do not say that all were sick.
Those only who were green,
Who had not been to sea before—
And wondered at every soene.”
There are only a few hopeful signs in your case.
You write a good hand, you tell us you are
married, you punctuate your verses fairly, and
you are evidently a close student of human
nature. That statement of yours as to the people
who were green being sick, evidences the
possession of Dickensesque powers of observation.
However, we don’t much fancy “ cork ” as a rhyme
to “talk,” whioh is only pronounced “tork”
by C.M.G.’s “J.J.”: A blustrous prig
" J.J.” (Brisbane): Judging from your exquisite
notion of the outward proprieties of life, you must
be an undertaker....“ Laurie Frost”: Thanks.
Held over—“Wango”: As he was a one-armed
man, we don’t think a woman was at the bottom
of it...." J.R.W.”: It isn’t that the Evening News
people are so strongly anti-Protectionist. What
they don’t like about the Jennings Government is
the income-tax proposal, which bites into all the
big newspaper proprietaries....“Btuptd ” (Bin-
gera): Parkes. A pretty fair likeness, isn’t it ?....
“Tumberumba You appear te forget that the
shooting of Wolfe points another moral besides
the very obvious one that nobody should be too
ready with his pistol. The other moral is this: A
midnight brass band, backed up by a lot of howl-
ing idiots, is as fatal to many a sick person as a
prod in the ribs with a seven-inch bowie-knife
would be. If Wolfe’s deplorable death perman
ently impresses this moral upon whatever mind
may be possessed by the yelping, half-drunken
wretches who don’t care how many sick men and
women they yowl into the grave, Wolfe will not
have left this world altogether in vain “ Robert
Sheridan, jun. (Roma, Q.): You give us too big a
task. Read Justin M’Carthy’s “ History of Our
Own Times.”—“J.R.”: Your letter makes us
wonder whether she originally entered a convent
with a view to passing the plate round at Orange
meetings for the remainder of her natural life.
(2) During the Crimean war in 1854, and the
Indian mutiny in 1857, Ulster was appealed to to
send out a body of some two or three thousand
men—a couple of regiments out of all their hun-
dreds of thousands—but not a corporal’s guard
volunteered from all the Orange lodges
“J.A.R.”: Wit doesn’t consist of bad spelling.
Nothing humorous in your article “Rough”:
Glad to hear from you again. Will see what can
be done with your play —“E.BT.”: You don’t
tell us where jour dead friend lived
"Loyalty”: Idea not strong enough...." John
Miller” (Fiji): You assert‘hat our correspondent
" Planter,” in issue of May 15, was entirely wrong
in his assertions that there are thousands of men
women, and boys who can read, write, and cypher,
and that the self-denying labours of the Wesleyan
clergy have worked wonders in the Islands. All
this we accept as your evidence on the subject,
but, apart from the fact that it conflicts with the
balance of personal testimony, we cannot under-
stand why Wesleyanlsm, the curse of Tonga,
should give such opposite results in Fiji. Perhap s
all the good parsons have gone there and left us
only the others....“M.G.”: Thanks. Gladjto get
your letter—“E.B.T.”: Same old joke. We pub.
lished it six years ago, and it has come up regu-
larly about six times a month ever since. It has
been run on to John Lucas 109 times, so that he
should how have a very large stock of ladies’
handkerchiefs..., “ D. Aitken ”: No; we don’t re*
member. MS. returned with the usual editorial
blessing..,." W.H.G.” (Quirindl): Have often heard
the story before, but as M‘G is dead while
J.B.N. is very much alive indeed, we don’t meddle
with your straight 1ibe1...."J.R.E.”: Very ac-
ceptable. Will usB.."Mon Rspos”: Many thanks.
We use the item, but of course cannot comment.
...."James White”: Most Orange parsons care
more for the crown of gold than they do for the
crown of thorns ....“Our Country”: We reprinj
the anicle marked Thanks.
Marie Brizard!
No stimulant is more reliable than Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
SOCIALITIES. 86, Is. (post Is. 31.), now ready.
160 i/lustrations, The brightest, largest, and
cbeapest work ever published. All previous edi-
tions excelled. All booksellers. Alex. M'Kinley
and Co., Sydney.
Marie Brizard!
The Twelfth of July.
In consequence of William of Orange having once
ridden a horse considerably out of drawing, and
pointed with what looks to tbe uninitiated like a
poker in a south-easterly direction, a large body of
well-dressed men and women assembled at the
Japanese Village (Sydney Exhibition Building) on
Sunday afternoon last to do him reverence and
listen to good healthy reminiscences of men burnt
at the stake, and women slowly drowned. Ther c
was a stroi g programme, and several well-known
fulminators were advertised, so that the pay-
ing public might be assured of hearing some-
thing specially hot in the way of “loud-
iunged anti-oabylonianisms ” and warnings
against the damnable errors of Rome, and the de
testable doctrines of Catholicism. Several promi-
nent bigots adorned the platform with »h 8 Deati-
tude of their approving mugs, and the transparen-
cies of the Queen and the Princess of Wales,
which did duty long ago at the Town Hall gorge,
were put on view as an additional attraction. But
it was a gloomy affair, after all, and we saw whole
hosts of good Protestants pass between the two
outstretched collection plates at the door with an
expression of mingled derision and pity. There
was an almost pathetic straining for effect all
through. Every hymn was given out by a sepa-
rate clergyman—no one performed twioe—and
thus the: numerical strength of those who still
openly lend themselves to the L O L was demon-
strated. Possibly, for the same reason that, long
ngo, in a beleaguered town when the bread ran
low, the besieged threw their last loaves over the
wall, to show that they yet “felt good.” A more
sorry sight ;than the lot of It no eye has looked
upon, and more saltleis and pitiably inane
balderdash than the ad dress ss no oar has yet
listened to—unless the wearer of it was
in the House wber Neild, L O L., was doing
a nine hours’ canter at saving his country. Sin-
gularly enough, of all those who took a fall out of
Rome on this occasion, Mr. Soper was the least
soporific. Mr. Soper has mistaken his vocation.
He is really a great humourist, at present dis-
guised as a Baptist parson, and would be received
with open arms as chaplain for the staff of this
journal. He showed this quality notably when he
told the congregation that he knew a lot of them
would like him to cut his address short
because they couldn’t hear it from where
they sat. He also convulsed the intelligent por-
tion of his audience—that is, two people laughed
—by saying that he wouldn’t trust any priest or
Pope or bishop of Rome with his old umbrella let
alone his soul, and alluded to the said priests,
bishops, or Popes as these “ fellows”—a graoeful
pleasantry much appreciated by a swivel eyed
man, afflioted with warts, in the front row.; There
was really nothing else of vital oonsequence said,
and the general publio sallied forth wnn the fixed
co victioa that all the infernal machinations of
Rome will be unavailing to stem the tide of
triumphant Urangelsm.
Sprightly work, this. The Chioago record,
“15 minutes for divorce,” has never been broken,
and now a Chioago coroner has made the cham-
pion record for work in his particular line. A
Chicago man died on an express train 65 miles from
home. The conductor telegraphed ahead for the
coroner, who met the train 15 miles from the city,
impanelled the jury from among the passengers,
and obtained a verdict in accordance with the
facts, all at the rate of 40 miles an hour. After
this, he made out a death-oertifleate and a burial-
permit, and stuck them in the dead man's hat,
kissed away the widow’s tears, oourted her, entered
into a solemn engagement to marry her next day,
and then swung himself off the train at the out-
skirts of the city, to hold an inquest on the body
of a plate-layer the train had just run over. Now,
we’d like to see our coroner come up to that.
Especially in the part where the widow-hugging
episode came in.
Swan wick, a Cairns (N.Q) lawyer, has
lately been studying the manners and customs of
the smiling alligator. The gentleman—we mean
the lawyer—after a botanising expedition, found
himself belated in a dense mangrove swamp with
the tide rapidly rising. He had to take refuge for
some hours in a tree, while six-and-eightpenny
saurians came along every now and then to seek
legal advioa. Some giant alligators lathed their
taiis against the tree, and tried to bring it and the
lawyer down together; and accompanying these
monsters would com* baby crocodiles, with their
half-grown brothers and sister*, who all opened
their j*ws and yearningly appealed to Swanwiok
for a nind-quarter of lawyer. At last the ‘‘land-
shark ” saw tne tide dtscend, and when the alliga-
tors, who evidently knew nothing of stonewalling
—never having been in the N B.W. Parliament—
“ cleared,” Swanwiok mournfully went home.
Mr. A. P. Canaway, a rising light of the
N.S.W. Bar, has published a pamphlet on “ Our
Fathers and Imperial Rights.” We are not abso-
lutely charmed with the production, for Mr.
Canaway’s method of drawing utterly irrational
and absurd conclusions from wholly imaginary
facts does not seem to be in accordance with the
practice of standard writers. But what we do ad-
mire are the resources of the author’s vocabulary,
and the wide range of meaning which he proves
various words to possesj. Thus, for instance,
we find that a nation is capable of “demean-
ing” itself as “a race called to the mas-
tery;’’ but a subsequent fusion did not become
‘ absolutely total," and when “ the predispos-
ing conditions were uncounteracted , separation
became easy.” British territory, we are glad to
find, subserves “a noblest use," from which it is
apparent that there are several "noblest uses ”
The Act of Settlement, he says, royalised the
House of Brunswick; but long before that “nobles
privately forayed and maraudered on one another s
lands;” but these nobles and others, before the
British people ha i gained “ their present soaring
posture,” were " shined on by the old flag." This
last is a noble expreision— ‘ glowered at by a dish-
olout” is about the nearest imitation we could
make on a short notice—but it opens up a bright
vista of forcible figures for future use. “ Frowned
on by a ragged tie,” “illumined by cuffs just
returned from the Chinese laundry,” "lighted
by the glare of his soleless boot,” and similar
expressions may now be confidently looked for
since Mr. Canaway’s genius has led the wav to
their adoption. Further, we read that men were
“ plucked together by their very heart-strings,” a
phrase which would seem to refer to the fate of
unfortunate candidates at University exams.
These and many other novelties of composition
make Mr. Canaway’s book almost interesting at
times; and, as such seeming irregularities emanate
from one who proclaims himself on the title-page
of his pamphlet, a “ B.A. Oxon. and Barrlster-at-
Law,” we are forced to believe that they are not
only allowable but even admirable, because cor-
rect. Some allowance must be made for this
author, as his subject is a very difficult one to
handle from the side which he seleots. He has a
bad client, and cannot be expected to make a good
lf we are correctly informed, Mr. Canaway’s
first client under the Criminal Law was an old
black gin at Uraua, who was accused of setting fire
to a bundle of decayed sheepskins, but acquitted
on the plea of insanity. Ana now his first client
under political law is Imperial Union. Tnere :s a
lot of fitness here so mew here.
SOCIALIITE3, 'B6, Is. (post Is. 31.), now ready.
150 wood-outs. The book for maiden, masher,
young and old. Ail booksellers. Alex. M‘Kinley
and Uo., Sydney,
QBJECTIONABLE ADVERTISING.
Many people complain, and with justice, that
they are the daily victims of an imposition -which
is simply becoming an unbearable nuisance: and
to guard against it necessitates a constant mental
tension, an unceasing vigilance, in the exercise of
whiohlifeisshornof half its pleasures. References
to texts and words of mysterous meaning are now
in everyday use, as channels whereby to impress
on men’s minds the value of some article of mer-
chandise; and the services of artist aud author are
alike utilised to introduce or maintain the pro-
minence of some nostrum which has nothing else
but its advertised merits to recommend it. Facts
and fancies are mixed and dished up in this way
until many people are really almost afraid to read
even the most attractively headed artiole, for fear
of being outraged in this manner at the end of it.
And there are wounds which no patent medicine
or chance prescription will heal, but any pain or
annoyance, any bruise or sore place, can be in-
stantly relieved, in common with almost every
other ailment, by the intelligent use of St. Jacobs
Oil, the best curative and conqueror of pain the
world ever knew.
WATEI\BURX.
v—y
AtrAfM
g-15 !
QpHE WONDERFUL WATERBURY,
_ THE CORRECT TIME FOR 13s. 6d.
The Principal of the College of Science and Arts*
Glasgow,
PROF. JAMIESON, A.M., INST. C.E., F.R.S.E,
writes:—
“ Five weeks ago I got from you a Waterbury
Watoh, and having been previously annoyed by
my lever watch stopping and keeping bad time
whenever I went near dynamo machines, I in-
serted the Waterbury Watch between the magnetic
poles of a ten horse-power dynamo. Of course,
the watch instantly stopped, but on being started
again I regulated it only twice within two days*
and have found that for one whole month it did
not vary two minutes from correot Greenwich
time. I now prefer it to my former and much
more expensive wateh, and consider it an excellent
timekeeper.”
The Watchmaker, Lond., Deo., 188>.—“The
Waterbur* has been designed and is guaranteed
to give a maximum of resulis in timekeeping
at a minimum of cost.”
Manchester Examiner, Dec. 22 —‘‘The Water-
bury is a splendid timekeeper, we have sub-
jected it to tests few watches can endure.”
Manchester Courier, Dee. 22.—“ An experience
of a Waterbury for over two months enables
us to say that they are admirable time-
keepers.”
Manchester City News, Nov. 21.—“ We have
tested, it is an excellent timekeeper, is keyless,
and goes 28 hours with once winding up.”
Glasgow Herald, Dec. 9.—“ It is a substantial
piece of workmanship, and a good time-
keeper.”
Glasgow Citizen, Deo. 9.—“ Of first-class work-
mans nip, and a good timekeeper.”
These Watches can be obtained from:-Messrs
M'Lean Bros, and Rigg, George-street; Ulsley.
Doubieday, and Co., Market-street; Capper Bros ,
West Maitland ; Mason Bros.; Feldneim, Gotthelt
and Co.; Lazarus, Rosenfleld and Benjamin ; L.
Saunders and Co.; T. Willis and Co., A. M‘Arthur
and Co., M'Gregor, Harris and Co.. George street;
Plummer and Owen, George street; Myers and
Solomon. George street; Braby Bros., Castlereagh
street; and Walker, Lemon and Co.
WATERBURY WATCH COMPANY,
M, MARGAR BT-BTREET,
SYDNEY.
OF THE GREATEST IMPORTANCE TO
LADIES.
Fireproof Dresses—So much attention has
been directed to deaths from burning, that it may
be well if we indicate in general terms the
methods by which fabrics can be rendered incom-
bustible. 'There are many chemicals employed for
this purpose, the most popular, perhaps, being
tungstate of soda. It is comparatively inexpen-
sive, and by the outlay of a couple of shillings the
dresses of the whole household may be protected
from fire. To three parts of good dry starch add
one part of tungstate of soda, and use the starch
In the ordinary way. Should the material not re-
quire starching, dissolve lib. of tungstate of soda
in two gallons of water, well saturate the fabric,
and then let it dry. It will not effect in any way
even the most delicate colour, and ironing does
not interfere with the effioacy of the process.
Mu9Un so treated may be held in the flame of a
candle or gas-lamp without catching fire, so that,
although the part in contact with the flame may
be charred, or even destroyed, there is no danger
of its spreading. This recipe may be relied on, in
fact, there is only one in the world that can be
called superior to it. That is to use Snowflake
Kerosene, and so obviate all danger of fire. It is
pure, clean, brilliant, water-white, has no smell,
and Is absolutely safe. No fear of explosion or
ignition. Home comfort and security assured by
its use.
The Wonderful Snowfl ike Kerosene, the safest,
purest ami best oil for all purposes except salad
dressing, can be obtained from any of the follow-
ing wholesale or retail merchant*Messrs.
M'Gregor, Harris, and Co., George wrlfflth and Co,,
T W. Eady an r 8 in, D. Cohen and Co., Potts and
Paul, Holdsworth and Co., F. Hutcber, Holdsworth,
Macpherson, Co., Walser, Lemon and Co., M Lean
Bros, and Rigg. ana Mason Bros, J-d. _


4
y/.
DC MAM
•II
Btou?^^9T JT -—Thiß favourite brane
nf Y ALLUS iRTUunw U*** l *^
Jnh” Q^ r ewK d -Wrt- h great oare from tne
ena -s’! S* The celebrated firm of
iltaiwi Dublin, and therefore
J,^°° ,1ir *‘’ • Terjwhor# '
Sole Agents.
A a,nd QtX A Xrr
s «((’S f JTHEik mY ]&***'* invite inspection
»nvTOtJTHa> MA^NIFIC ENT STOCK of
SE 4ql^ a QE crnTD d r>? OYV “ STANDARD ”
now open FOR THE
t? he^ B are 0 hS!,!!?, 111 our own sets of pat-
J»are s^ 6 Bu Pervis£n Uti £ ul,y made and flobhed
c ttt, o t Su re, of our home buyer, and,
nn* Workmo 6 8 4 r Pa«sed, if equalled, for
fi« les by any house in the
AKd
.Tweed
S ! «3. Rn i, i ancy W oolor Italian* ciothTssll
OVERCOATS, extra
wm Sn; vt;t ea, and ’m cl * UI Overcoats in Meltons,
' d d F Cy Worsteds, 37s 6d, 355,
s .&i Ci?S D P Jith OVERCOATS. LTNED
WM2s “ 8lL &. 53s 6d: ditto COVERT
Wl JttJ 1 ’ .
VS aoished B AC SUITS, specially
■,£,*> and wJ. n i Fancy Mixtures, Bcotch
AW? w °rateds, 33; 61, 35;, 435, 455, 50s,
NiMn’ T We e p(?tf 01 )y ar(3ed on application.
Twees tv° Coata - 159 6d fo 35 s
hair Irouaeis . 10s6d, 13s 61, 15s 3d,
rSRQTn\WELL COT and FINISHED, f. r
. vests, in linen or pique,
J A "CKBIT ’ for TENNIS or LOUNGE,
SSI®4wHTTE R^r S3E p ANTs, in NAVY
-r Dresßj., E PEANNEL, 13s 6d
T%o?o e 6(iB f?r. Go 7 nB ’ in Pelt, Celtic and
Sr.'S® WT&SR3osto63s
WJ 1 »effi E P p POOF COATS, cut extra
W. Tweefis,
aH; 6d e ATERPROOF coat, very
Vi an, lightest coat made,
—° and Driving, all sizes
Wate!! to match Coats
. Proof Sheeting, Buggy Rugs.
’S JUVENILE CLOTHING.
r tf imthed or Wiater Wear ’ atyllshly
L, 6n+s^, to 8, nice warm Suit, 11s6d
8 P« w^Aß°i’ gO V Scotch Tweed, 14s 6d
Com Plete with Badge, Lan
OR,
made of good Strong Blue
Qlade °f Black and Brown Vel-
in all sizes
OM SUITS, in pretty Black
to”?
m 8 Uh Biani U i s ’ 3ls - 35s - aud 30a -
R °h Silk and TlrnH Rholla
T*Ok HATS, in the f ollow-
likWi!^ 9 a> New Brown8 ’
K n H I;>Ue S 3 TRUNKS, all sizes.
PE APES and SHAW,
George-street.
• HAUTHAWAY’S
OLD DELUBIE *
Peerless
PJa,
"THE ST4KDARD."
® - Css Street, Boston*
A necessity in even
family. It blacks anc
polishes Ladies’ anc
Children’s Boots,
Shoes, Rubbers anc
Satchels, with oul
bashing. Always
gives satisfaction, j
Is conceded to be
MASS., U.B.A.
gsdfg
%
ring
M HATTERS
STREET
*v
D
N
%
EIV
S
0
Rsf
shapes
ALL ACE,
tqiy of
V\Jc> ». and
sags?-
*• s{» tot?,* I *** r«««lT«« *y
1
w®» w irj>*ir
The FOLLOWING GOODS
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Com Faint. Is.
Asiatic Liniment, 2s.
That Modern Appetiser—The Australian Relish—ls
A. Soyer’s Baking Powder (free from alum), 6d.
Page’s Custard Powder, 4 in box, Is.—makes two
quarts fine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linctus, for coughs, Is.
Clayton’s Nervine, for toothache and cold in the
gums, Is.
Dr. Barbarossa’s Cantharides and Russian Bear’s
Crease Oil, for covering bald patches and pro-
ducing whiskers, 2s. 6d.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND SAVE MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL Sc CO.,
177, 268 and 266 PITT STREET.
HE
REMINGTON
TYPE-WRITER
ITS AD Y ANT AGES OVER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY, EASE,
CONVENIENCE, ECONOMY.
&F- THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER saves
labour, stationery, and time, writing much
taster than expert penmen, and condensing matter
to less than one-half the spaee occupied by pen
vriting. Beautiful copies may be taken in the
;sual manner in the letter-press. Merchants,
ankers, solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors,
-e >orters, and all men of business should use the
type-writer, and save much valuable time.
Bold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY and CO„
410 Kent-street.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1889.
&&ORPORATBD BY ACT OX PARLIAMENT,IB73
Paid-up Capital. ..........£300,000
Reserve Fund £165,000
DmiOTOßfl:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.CtM.B* Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.G.
George 8, Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley fang, MAO,
0. RoHoefcon, Esq., C.M.O.
Auditors:
Jss. Seroggle, Esq. I H. B. Cohen, Beq,
dXNgRAL MAWAORB: I
F. A. A. Wilson.
Sborbtabt:
Hector Allen,
branches in Nbw South Wauu :
arke
Bourke,
!»ymarket, Pyrmont, Redfem, Gosford, Nyngan,
i, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonards, and
Newcastle.
Branch in Quhnsland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 168 Leadenhailnitreet,
Diriotors: ■?>'
dward Chapman, Esq. I Geo. P. Slade, Esq.
r Baul Sarauel,K.C.M.G I Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manaobr : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankbrr:
The National Provincial Bank of England
this bank transacts all usual Banking and Flnan
A Agency Business on the most favourable termfl
3111 s dlsoounted daily.
Kills negotiated and advances made against Woo*
d other produoe shipped to Ibiglandser sale.
lo Weak, Nervous Invalids, and Others Seekirg
Health, Strength, and Energy.
DR. RICHARDS, |
DESIRES to inform sufferers of both sexes that he
lids permanently established himself in Sydney,
and may id future he consulted ?t hi* rooms, No. 7
Spring Street, FREE OF CHARGE by sufferers of
both sexes from Nervous arid Physical Debility, Ex-
hausted Vitality, Premature Decay, Pains in the Back,
Head or Chest, &c., &c.
I Cure every case undertaken.
When I say I Cure, I do not mean merely stop them
for a time and then have them return again ; I mean
a radical cure, I have made nervous and private dis-
eases a life-long study, and can safely warrant a cure
in every case undertaken after a personal consultation.
Many persons, from the effects of youthful impru-
dence, have brought about a state of weakness that has
reduced the general system so much as to induce al-
most every other disease, and the real cause of this
disease scarcely ever being suspected, they have been
doctored for everything but the right one. Notwith-
standing the many valuable remedies that medical sci-
ence has produced for the relief of this class of patient,
none of the ordinary modes of treatment effect a cure.
During my extensive hospital and private practice in
England, I have discovered new and concentrated re- ■
medies, and with the use of my extensive Galvanic
Appliances I am in a position to guarantee a cure in
every case undertaken,
Consultation costs nothing, and I will tell you at
once whether your case is curable or not.
DR. RICHARDS, M.R.C.S., ENG.,
No. *7 SPUING- ST., (off Pitt-street north,)
SYDNEY.
MUSIC HATH CHARMS, &C.
THE ONLY HOUSE IN SYDNEY
that makes a Speciality of
musical Instruments.
VicliDS, Guitars, Bapjos, Futes. Accordions, Con-
certinas, andStriDgs for all Instruments.
Musical Instruments of all kinds Repaired.
PCGONOW SKI’S
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT WAREHOUSE,
70S George-atreet, Sydney
D I*. BOY D,
POMEROY CHAMBERS, 39 CASTLEREAGH-ST
(Upstairs),
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
Registered Physician of New South Wales.
Offioe Hours:
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. only,
Deformities, Nervous, and Female Diseases a
Specialty,
Box 1*) G.P.O,
sd
REUTER’S LIFE SYRUP, No. 2.
A positive and radical cure for
every form of Scrofula, Syphilis
Scrofulous Sores, Affections of the
Skin and Scalp with loss of Hair
and all diseases of the Blood, Liver
and Kidneys. GUARANTEED to
purify, enrich, and vitalize the Blood
and restore and renovate the entire
system.
REUTER’S HEALING SOAP,
For the Bath, Toilet, Nursery an
the healing l of skin diseases of
every kind and at every stage.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
S. Hoffnung & Co.
ART IFICIALT C ETH
"/A
MARSHALL BRO:
DENTISTS
133 ELIZABETH ST
v«so^y
&
,e M
o
O
3
if
VnAr
\>
PARRY* Gs
XTRACT
OF
SOAP
1*
THE MARSOAP!AL V/EW OF HIM :
ms?
#r
EC
SI
-
,VV”
fg
y*
r>V>
° «*■
v v
Messrs. S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Agents.
G. B. MODINIp Gunmakerp
BEGS to announce to his patrons and the publie
that he has received, by late arrivals, one of
the largest and best selections of
FIREARMS
seen in Sydney. The latest improvements Tin
Breach and Muzzle-loading Guns, Rides, Revolvers#
&c. Agent for the following celebrated London
Manufacturers : T. Purdy and Sons, John Rigby
and Co., Joseph Lang and Son. Cbas. Osborne and
Co., T. Bland and Son ; also, Bussey and Co., who
manufacture all kinds of Sportsmen’s Require-
ments for the held. A large assortment of other
celebrated mskfrs’ stock on hand from Webey,
Ri'ey. PCott, &o, and the best Continental and
Amer'can makers A choice and complete stock
of Cutlery. Field and Marine Glasses, and Sports-
men s Suppli's in general. R pairs promptly
executed by skillful workmen, and all goods will
be faitnfully guaranteed at
602 Georgc-st., Brickfield Hil 1 , Sydney.
In. pcction Invited. Price List on application
medicikti:
from Pure Drugs and Chemicals by
q ua I, fled Chemists In th e most scientific manner
to ensure the beet action,
for aroTHXssra
is more essential to enable doctors to make quick
cures, therefore we only employ qualified assist-
ants with diplomat in our establishments, and
supply everything of the best quality at
the lowest prices.
T. JONES & CO..
DISPENSING CHEMISTS,
53 Yahkei st., between Pitt and George streets,
B anch Houses:—Crown-street Tram Terminus*
Suny Hills; and Suva, Fiji.
Anything you Require from Sydney
forwarded at
COST PRICE.
NO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, forwarded free of all
charges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
Jill T. Mints & Go.,
90 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
MANHOOD RESTORED!
A Clergyman having tried every known remedy
for the CURE of NERVOUS EXHAUSTION,
PREMATURE DECAY &C., has at last dis-
covered a simple SELF-CURE, which, for the sake
of suffering hnmarrity, he will send FREE the Pre-
scription which CURED him. Address with self-
addressed envelope— DR. E. A. CLARKE,
Box 292, G. P. 0., Sydney.
DR. THOMAS, of 203 Elizabcth-street, be*
tween Park and Bathurst Streets, haS-
passed the Royal College of Surgeons of England,
and is the Only medical man advertising in Aus*
tralia who has passed the Royal College ob»
Physicians of England.
, Consult him for the best and safest treatment;
on nervous debility, skin, contagious, and blootj
diseases.
m
ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
AND ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
%
HKL rAHLU ONI
MAS I N
GH A M
OCKHAM PTON.
■
DH. O CONKTELL,
52 Castlereagh Street,
syidintent, zlst.s.w.
A REGULAR GRADUATE in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S.W., whose
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all private cases, chronic,
nervous, skin and special diseases,
DR. O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit tho city for treatment, medicine
can bo sent by post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is frankly stated. Especial attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence,
producing some of the following effects: —Ner-
vousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples on the Pace, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of Pleasure in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Pains in the Back, Stunted Development, &c., are
treated with unparalleled success. Cures per-
manent, safe, and private. Symptom list free, and medicines sent by post.
Skin Diseases, Itching, Burning, Scaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptions
of every kind, from whatever cause, promptly cured.
It is self-evident that a physician paying particular attention to a class of cases attains great skill, 1
and physicians in regular practice ail over the country knowing this, frequently recommend cases to
this oldest office in Australia, where every known appliance is resorted to, and the proved good
remedies of all ages and countries are used. On account of the great number of cases applying, the
charges are kept low—often lower than is demanded by others. If you secure the skill, and get a
speedy a"'t perfect life o<W, that is the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free. Call on oj
_ DOCTOR J. O CONNELL,
J 53 C tsUtJreiisU Htreet (urocno fi.qok), .‘Sjrtlaej-*
v !
m
m
m
&
w m
jgm
m
Wh
■ .'• ■'•' N''-'
li :* .
mmz


THOS.
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, and OPTICIAN,
Bo mßo™R T ' i 339 AND 341 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
{ NEARLY OPgg®
Manufacturer of Turret Clocks, Prize Cups, Optical and Surveying Instruments, Ac.
Gaunt’s Special Silver Hunting English Lever Watch, strong dust-proof cases, warranted a most correct and IlEl
timekeeper. Post free on receipt of P. 0.0. for 6 guineas. A select stock of Gold and Diamond Jewellery.
r-3r PRICE LISTS FREE ON APPLICATION.
CALLAGHAN
Caterer and Confectioner,
684 GEORGE STREET.
WEDDINGS. BALLS. PICNICS, AND PARTIBB A SPECIALITY.
107 Fitt-street, \rVVI,
CATERER AND CONFECTION^
LTTNCHEO V AND REERES HMJNT ROOMS 1-OR
ASK TOIJR GROCER FOR
FRY’S MALTED
J - S. PRY & SOUS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.—LahOM.
MASON BROTHERS
lIP
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent Street,
Sydney,
■ere alwaysin stock, for SALI
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALB BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA.
AMD
IiBTHINTAKI
WINES, BEERS, Aim SPIRITS
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SON
Old Highland Whisky;
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J.T.GAYBN’S
Schnapps and Genera.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Bdinburgk Pale Ale.
UNDER THE PATRONAGE OF HI3 EXCEL-
LENCY LORD CARRINGTON.
SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
JUST ARRIVED, ex “ Massillia,” 12 Cases of
the
Finest Egyptian Cigarettes,
specially selected by Mr. Noake on his tour to
Europe, and being a thorough connoisseur in
Cigarettes, he recommends them to his patrons as
being of the finest quality made.
Also, a large shipment of the world-renowned
“ Spiller’s,”
whose reputation is universally known by the
smokers of the first quality of cigarettes.
TO BE HAD ONLY AT
J. NOAKE’S EST BLISHMENTS
320 and 446 Georgke-st ,
AND
Pall Mall, Hunter-street.
0
<&
UJ
on
£3O
UNIQtTB FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguish Wilson’s Ame-
rican “Extra Toast ” BIBCUITB. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and incomparible
With coffee or cheese.
TURNBR ft CO.,
Bole Agents,
74 Sussax Stout, stout.
BUDGEREE ! BUDGER®® 11
Trade
£***V
EU
esrm^c
jjarK-
KTO MORE FEVER- #
?he BUDGEREE DISINFECTANT is the most wonderful Geri» .
destroyer known. No household should he without it, as it insra"
smells arising from closets, had drains, &c. Sold at all ou am
Donat: JAS. C. STEEL, Bulletln-lano, Lo*
00*
■
MUSIC SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, *<*'
Also, at London, Mayencb, Paris, and Brussels.
ST LARGEST STOCK IN THE CO h O
?
a
BULL DOG ALB.
tIEST AWARD, GOLD MBDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
ft iHE sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thinft-
JL quenching properties of this worid-renowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their 'favourite beverage In the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALE, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Splrlt Merchants.-KEIGWIN and
HARSTON, Bole Agents.
WALLACH BROS.'
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS
Copyrighted,
afteb oefqre Monstacho and Whiskers.
lloyd's Beard Elixir dill this,
and mill do it. on either bald
head or bore fare. Forces
heavy Moustache in front 2 to
4 weeks anil never fails. 20,000
. , , . young men already wear full
beards haviwj used 1 to l! pkts. No injury, easily applied, certain
t/l effect. Packets, Is. (5 d. each, it for. 3s. (id., post paid, sent under
f,v m ' Frank ' ,,ouelns ’ Soie
BfF0n£ AFTtn
Copyrighted.
COOLALTA WINES
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX,
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 Gteorge-street
(Beneath Pallnsr’g.)
HE highest point of
perf e °
iion :
facture of
Gentlemen 9
f^.A
T
•
-JJV
having heen reached hy
prepared to supply ° ur J g t& 0 .tf?
made of any material, cu ,<$ p
principle, 3 j, r
and as we use materials of * g [ g o ool ' ,/(
durability and good |<yPj
A. A. DEBNE* 81
13 hunter ”
..
GREAT
are prepared to - o pth
they may be favoured with'
terms.
To arrive— lCO Cases IP
tins and bottles ; fr
Preserves, JelHeS,
Curry ana Mulin' 8,
Duck, &c. j, e 00
Letters and orders to
manager,
31 and 33
Htritf®*
LATB ROWLANDS & LBWIB,
Wanofactnror of aH kinds of Crated Waters, Cordials, and Sitters, and Prspriater of
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
* the Only Goto Medal to /Erated and Mineral aha, another Gold Medal fee Liqueurs*
tt.
