

The
Bulletin
NEW SERIES
uytuyt
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET ONLY, 7
THE ONLY UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS IN THE SUNNY SOUTH.
Ul ’ Btock
ele^aucJo 1 ? 1 thSS an ? <' om Prebensiye in a wonderful degree, supplying every want and meeting every requirement. We contribute something to enhance the natural
the feminine form ; we assist in a most economical fashion in mixing the Early Tea and the Lace Coffee; and in the Mincer represented wo add a most useful
article to the household machinery.
dfg
Thi Napoleon
Spirit Stove.
Stove 7d, Kettle 6d
Complete, Is Id.
TEA AND COFFEE
IN
HALF A MINUTE.
hd
PALACE
CORSETS.
The Palace -3s. lid.
The Haymarket-Ss. ltd.
/
Sponge’s Enamelled Mincers,
K». 1,6 s. 6d. 2,10 s. 8,13 s fid,
THE PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET, 18 CLOSE TO THE RAILWAY STATION.
Household Fixings of every kind are best bought at THE PAL4.CE EMPOHITJM, HAYMARIvET.
fgh
Weigh Everything,
including:
THE CONSEQUENCES.
FAIRBANKS
Champion Scales.
Will weigh from %cz. cO 1.-ohos.
Pr? Ids. fld
. * ' S COUNTER scaled.
61l 8h ftv.
lt>8 > 4*. 9d.j 1-411. <is; 281bs, 10s ;
5 61bs, 13s. Stt.
Set
*
s > 4lUs
t« U9Z , 2s. tl«e Set.
paw*
cv
Falaeo Granite
TOIX-BT SET,
viz :
1 each J" r Basin. Brush, and Fosp Tray,
SC hers-7* 6d , complete.
ABE TIFUL CHOICE of TOILET
WARE.
“ Prevention is better
than Cure,”
and without implying anything
derogatory of Syaney water, we
can strongly recommend
CHEAVIN’S
FILTERS.
m "■ v
improved PATENT\
"13 IfCCAL>SUr CLtANIKt
APIO WATER FIUtEN
cun.M^Sif
i "ill
Our prices are lower than those of any other Sydney House,
no 0 1 2. "
■- —30 s. 42t. 50s.
J7s.
IK
2Ls.
&9-
‘>K 3 K
career sizes in proportion
A 1
C <talls.
x v
mm Hordern & Sons
\cb Emporium, Haymarket only.


ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
OWING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &o.
@T Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
DOULTON’S "FLUSH-OUT,” “VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application.
Genuine
Economical
1 1 t-conomicai
Cocoa
Makers to the Queen
kfi
T
tf sg-
J.JM
• ■» v.
'"‘.f
Wu
&a
$24
Bray «§& 3L» iclitner,
24 O’Connell-street, Sydney,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK DEALERS.
Complete Photographic Outfits, In great variety, from £3. Catalogues post free.
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
'{}>
80LE AGENTS for BAKER'S DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and RAPID in the Market
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied ,
best , and Cheapest in the colonies,
Li
Caterer and Confectioner,
654 GEORGE STREET.
WEDDINGB. BALLS, PICNICS, AND PARTIES A SPECIALITY.
MUSIC SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N S.W.;
Also, at London, Mayence, Paris, and Brussels.
IT LAEGEET STOCK Tn THE COLO 31HS
STAR & GARTER FAMILY HOTEL.
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
nHHIS Hotel Is centrally situated, being close to Post and Telegraph Offloe, Theatre, Tramway, kc
I Superior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class Wines and Spirit?
fhe most Comfortable and Commodious Private Bar in the city.
107 Fitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
mr LUNCHEON AND REFRESHMENT BOOMS FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.
HERTS, Haim ul CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMBRB. R. G. WATKINP.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
n, man, d mmi im
Importers of
TOOM and requisites, wood-working machines^
RAHWAY AND OTHER CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS. COACHBUILDBRS’
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, Ac.
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED OORRIJ.
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTB. and
BRUSHWARB
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACKS
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
-1
r*~T
H*LMC
if I 1
s
r <3
PORTABLE. n*s.
and BBMI-FlX*®
GUNKS
VERTTCAL and HORI-
ZONTAL boilers
TEAM and
PUMPS
LATHES. PLAN®
SHAPING, 80??$
: ING, and DRILLS
MACHINES
BTBAM HAMMER 8
ENGINEERS’ B» A0S
FOUNDRY
r tV
PATENT BOLL*
SHAFTING
QUICKBILTBR. *°*
I WT Price Lists and Catalogues furnished oa application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
Head Warehouse -
Iron an I Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
64 YORK STREET,
HAY AND ENGINE STREETS, A
HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOU*
SYDNEY
London Offtoo - - -W QRAC*CH URCH HTSim
Alex. Borthwick. «.
WALLPAPER, PAINT, &c. U " 5
2SI S3rd.ne3^
OFFORD & CO.’S HAIS
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
%@T Next to Royal Hotel, and at 652 George Street. .
The FOLLOWING GOODS
ARE VERY VALUABLE.
Dr. Jones’ Corn Paint, Is.
I
Asiatic Liniment, 23.
That Modern Appetiser—The Australi an Relish—ls
A. Boyer’s Baking Powder (free from alum), 6d.
PBge’s Custard Powder, i in box, Is.-—makes two
quarts fine custard
Dr. Thompson’s Coltsfoot Linotus, for coughs, Is.
Clayton’s Nervine, for toothache and oold in the
gums. la.
Dr. Barbarosea’s Canth r'des and Russian Bear’s
Grease Oil, for covering bald patcaes and pro-
ducing whiskers, 2 . 61.
APPLY FOR LIST, AND S. B MONEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
177, 208 and 200 PirT ST Its ET.
HM
:
L
m
ipletesft
mh am
t. r ••-’ A
m
:cV
■■ 1
13
ALL BROf
ISTS
BETH ST
o--m
dfg
MACHINERY.
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES?
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE STOCKS
WITH ALL '
NEWEST DESIGNS
HIGHEST FINISH
AT
LOWEST COST!
A* 9 .
hois tI
enci^'
la*"
mow^ s ;
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS,
ESTIMATED FOR C
3 O
OBERT COOPER
SOLE 2ft.
Sydney
111, PITT STREET.
Mclbourn^
22, KINC ST& '
Di!. T H O # V
may be consulted on
Nervous )ebillty, Skin and (lontBgiou*;f m 6 *
Medina; Establishment, 208 Elizsbfct D
near Bathurst-st rett.
Tours: 9 till 10 daily-
Dr. Thomas ig the only medical ™an # f $
in Australia ?bo has passed the degree* u
Ifcja Physicia. (i d Surgeon. Examin®
Licentiate of the Royal College of
London, 1864; Tiber of the itoy fti
Surp-eons, Load'':. 1869,
Co.


THE
BULLETIN
Vol 3 —No. 146 - New Series.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1886.
rrioi-Sd.
Mostly Fools
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1886.
"Bbe mastery of man over the animals is
.scarcely more remarkable than that thein-
tfluence exerted by the few over the multi-
tude. It has often been remarked that if
■brutes could reason the spectacle of the
■comparatively weak human biped lording it
■over horses and oxen, elephants and camels
would swiftly disappear. Yet the labours
iimposed upon beasts of burden are really
<of small moment when contrasted with the
•exactions, travail, and sufferings to which
tthe masses of mankind are subjected by a
mere handful of their fellows. The most
extraordinary among the many strange
features of this condition of affairs is that
a multitude of the victims of the system do
not merely emulate the docility of the
Drutes, but actually cling to theii servitude
and permit themselves to be made the will-
ing tools of their oppressors in repressing
any movement among their fellow-suf-
ferers to ameliorate their common lot. The
spectacle of a myriad of human beings
clanking their chains with a pretence of
enjoyment, and lending their aid to destroy
or joining in a chorus of abuse against any
individuals who may attempt or offer to
alleviate their conditions, is one of the most
mysterious problems of ; existence. This ex-
traordinary phenomenon has engaged the
attention of philosophers in all ages; but
of late years has received increasing notice.
As yet, however, no explanation of the pre-
valence of the conditions has been offered
Which promises a genuine and permanent
amelioration, and which has received the
sanction of universal acceptance. When an
explanation of that nature shall receive
such acceptance the hour of radical change
will have struck upon the clock of the
Ages.
BE©
In order that the situation may be clearly
Understood,'.illustration will be convenient.
We may, therefore, instance, as an ex-
ample, the related subjects of war and
glory. During the preparations for the
recent struggle between the Servian King
and the Prince of Bulgaria, the repug-
nance existing among the subjects of
the first-mentioned monarch to face the
miseries of a campaiga, were accentuated
hy the prevalence of a desperate expedient
tfi’self-mutilation among the men dragged
from civil pursuits to join the army. In
ordinary conversation, when a person de-
sires to emphasise in the strongest degree
the repugnance which he feels with respect
to any course of action, it is common for
him to express his feelings in the phrase
that he would “sooner cut off his right
hand ” than submit to this or that. The un-
happy Berviau, dragged by the summons of
the military authorities from his plough,
vineyard, and from the arms of his sweet-
heart, or the bosom of bis family, actually
.parried this sentiment into practice. He
<ci!t off such part of his right hand as was
-essential to the management of a weapon.
Yhis frightful expedient did not save him.
It merely hastened and insured his doom,
and heaped upon his devoted head the
additional outrage of infamy to his memory.
Most readers will be able to recall an item
So recent as the cablegrams which conveyed
the information respecting this practice
among Servian conscripts, and few will
have failed to notice the unanimity with
■Which journalists lent themselves to the
process of inculcating that the making of
sacrifices to escape the horrors of a cam-
paign was despicable and infamous. It has
fc been by the inculcation and diffusion of just
such sentiments that the sense of mankind
has been repressed, distorted, and bewil-
dered. All the civilised world has been in
this fashion taught and trained to believe
that a readiness to “leave all and follow ”
not Christ, but the War-Devil, is a trait
necessary to complete nobility of character.
« e m
This we regard as a fearful perversion of
the functions of the journalist—the really
potent teacher and preacher of the age.
Without going so far as to allege that wars
would cease, we do pronounce without
reservation that were journalists through-
out the world uniformly to dwell upon the
true morality of nations, and to encourage
the masses to work for their real prosperity,
there would be an immense abatement of
that scourge of the human race. The practice
ME. J. P. GARVAN, M.P.
at present is to hocuss the people with
drams of “glory,” and to take advantage of
them while under the influence of the
delirium occasioned by that stimulant, to
hurry them to their undoing, and often to
their death. A Social system which enables
the fortunate or knowing ones to so organise
affairs that the fruits of the labours of the
many accumulate in the hands of the few—
that the toiler is barely able to retain
sufficient of what he creates by his labour
to keep the breath of life in his body, while
the schemer and his heirs are corrupted by
unearned superfluity—requires that the
senses of the masses shall be undermined by
some such expedient.
* * *
It is almost inconceivable that the millions
should tamely acquiesce in a system which
permits the idle to dominate the industrious,
and which countenances an arrogance treat-
ing labour as a disgrace and honouring sheer
loafing as a dignity. Yet such is to-day the
universally accepted standard of social
thought. To be usefully employed in in-
dustrial occupations is a bar to social dis-
tinction. To consume without producing
is to secure deference and consideration.
To organise successful massacres is the
surest road to high rank. Whereas by de-
voting one’s life to the alleviation of disease,
scarcely one man in a million may procure
the fag end of a titular distinction;
* * *
Yet the ssntiment of equity is innate in
every bosom. Men fret at what they call
fate, and nevertheless help, often with
every appearance of exaltation, to mutually
forge each other’s fetters. In the feudal days,
when a great noble had so pillaged his own
dependents that they were utterly devoid
of means of subsistance, they marched
cheerfully under his banner to help him
to pillage their neighbours, and to reduce
these to the same extremity of suffering.
When the English colonists in America rose in
resistance to legalised spoliation and tribute,
not only did the yokel from the plough in
the old country—although himself ground
down by similar exactions to the very dust-
shoulder the musket with unthinking
alacrity, and march forth with his bosom
swelling with spurious “loyalty” to stake
his very life in the endeavour to bring his
brother across the Atlantic back to
the yoke of plundering authority, but
entire strangers were brought into the
contention, and made to stake their
lives and risk all the agonies of a death of
lingering torture on the field of battle, in
order that crazy George 111. of England
might rob American cultivators of a big
quart out of every bushel of corn they gar-
nered by the sweat of their brow. Miserable
Gormans were actually sold by their extor-
tioners to the English King, at per head*
The Duke of Hesse-Cassel furnished regi-
ments of his subjects for about £3 per head,
who were shipped off to repress the growth
of freedom. Prior to this the Guelps had
used their continental connections against
the English themselves, against the Scotch,
and against the Irish. There were permanent
conventions with the Dutch and Hanoverians
to furnish contingents of troops to quell any
attempt of Englishmen to expel the Queles
in favour of the Stuarts. When the Duke
of Cumberland, fresh from his disgrace at
Fontenoy, marched to Inverness to do battle
with the Jacobites, under Charles Edward
Stuart, he led more Hanoverians and Hes-
sians than he did British troops to the
slaughter at Culloden. When, after centuries
of the bitterest oppression, during which
every right of nature had been denied to the
miserable commoners of France, that nation
rose against its tyrants, and, with savage
reaction upon savagery, swept into undis-
tinguishable destruction king and courtier'
priest and courtesan, the kings of the earth
were able to marshall myriads of men, all
just about as imfamously oppressed and
wronged as the French had been, to endea-
vour to extirpate the sentiment of equality
and to restore the old evil order. When, a
little later, the first Napoleon strove to
substitute a single tyrant for a multitude,
and aimed at reintroducing the old Roman
Empire of the West, after devasting a coun-
try he enrolled its ruined inhabitants in his
legions, and used Baxons to scourge Bava-
rians, Poles to slaughter Spaniards—ltalians,
Spaniards, Poles, Saxons, Swiss—a hetero-
geneous mass of dull-witted animals, to prop
his throne and each to quell and slaughter
the other. Thus likewise in Hindostan the
British oonquered India ohiefly with Sepoy
troops. To-day she transports natives of
the Himalayan foothills to crush national
aspirations among Egyptian serfs. The
white Czar uses the life’s blood of the con*
quered Finn, Cossack, and Circassian, to
enslave the Tartar; and to bring the climax
home to ourselves, there were not lacking
Australians to volunteer to lay down their
lives with the object of crushing the manly
aspirations of love of country and of liberty
among Arabs, thousands of miles away.
“ Oh, fools! mostly fools,” as true Thomas
—not the Rymer of Ercildoune, but he of
Chelsea—exclaimed. Erery slave forging
fetters for his brothers and delivering them
bound hand and foot to the oppressor;
Consider what it all means. When the
“great” Frederic led his Prussians to
war, what had any man in the ranks to
gain ? Exposure, toil, wounds, long-drawn
torture, freezing on the bloody field after
the battle, death, or an old age of penury.
Soldiers do not save for their declining
years. They sow the face of the world with
blood and tears, but they harvest nothing
themselves. Frederic’s “greatness was
due to his greed to wrench a province from
the ruler of Austria, The provocation
was that that ruler was young, and a
woman. The inducement was that he, and
not she, might extort plunder from the
people of that unhappy Silesia. The interest
of the combatants on each side—these cheer-
iDg, saluting, drumming and fifing brave
brainless fools who did the fighting and
took the suffering was—what? To turn
round, each army on its gracious sovereign
and distinguished commanders, and shoot
these wild beasts down—then, shaking
hands all round, to beat their swords


into ploughshares, their spears into
pruning-hooks, and set to work to cultivate
the ground, and live and love and laugh
with children around them, and no Divine-
right plunderer to strip their granaries and
their vineyards to support him in pride and
harlotry. The moral is universal. The in-
dividual has no interest in war. “ Glory
is a mockery used to intoxicate men, and,
like wine, to “steal their brains away.
Honour is not an hysterical emotion. It is a
noble principle of common life, which for-
bids, among other crimes, an upright and
intelligent man from taking part in a quarrel
not personal to himself, and not occasioned
by some breach of a distinct moral principle.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Coalitions.
lisr Victoria and in New South Wales, parties
having expended themselves for a time, Coalition
Ministries are the rrsource of politicians destitute
of determinate principles. This would appear to
demonstrate a happy condition w ere the circum-
stances of these colonies in real correspondence
with the inanition of political representatives.
That is to say, were there really no principles the
application of which would tend to the present
improvement and future prosperity of these
Communities, it would he a matter for rejoicing
that such harmony among members of Par'ia-
tnent that the best men from the elect of the
people could come together to form a Cabinet.
But no person would be venturesome enough to
pretend that the affairs of these colonies are
being administered on lines which require no
remodelling. There is scope enough for the
genius of the reformer-only there are no
reformers. In New South Wales, the efforts
to form a combination have, so far, not
only failed to indicate a general disposi-
tion among leading politicians to adopt a unifor-
mity of principle, but they have, on the contrary,
exposed an inclination all round to abandon what-
ever principles the individuals have hitherto pre-
tended to be actuated by; In one of the gravest
Crises of the history of the colony, instead of call-
ing in the strongest man, the intriguers for office
accommodate their ambitions by attaching them-
selves to Sir Patrick Jennings -a gentleman
Who owes any prominence he has attained in
political Circles chiefly to his possession of ample
means, and to his having the constant support of
the Roman Catholic vote. The reason for his
election to lead the late Opposition, again, has,
obviously enough, no relation to the measure of
his abilities as compared with that of other mem-
bers of the Legislative Assembly. It is undis-
guisedly founded upon the amiability of his dis-
position, and the genial equableness of his
temperament. Now, to select a leader for these
qualities—admirable as they are—is undoubtedly a
tremendous mistake at a period of exceptional
difficulty. Besides, the Coalition under Sir
Patrick's patronage is not a fusion of potent
parties, combining and exhausting all the con-
stituent forces of the Assembly. It is the mere
accidental aggregation of the atoms of several
wreoked administrations, and these atoms never
had distinctiveness of repulsion sufficient to indi-
cate that by a reversal of the poles they will
henceforth possess a powerful cohesion. Such a
coalition can, in all likelihood, have but one good
influence on the politics of New South Wales. Its
existence may serve to create a real Opposition of
genuine solidarity, out of which, ere loDg,
a really stable Government may be formed.
♦
North Shore Consciences.
That was a gratifying meeting which took place
at the North Shore, Sydney, on Monday last, to
urge the immediate construction of a railway
to intersect North Shore land-owners’ property.
Several speakers announced themselves as in-
terested in the project, and it wtfl stated that quite
a proportion were prepared to transfer to tho
State the slices of their land requisite for the rail-
way, without charge-let alone compensation. We
rejoice to observe this. It affords evidence that
the public conscience Is awakening, and that a
fierce reference to “ the rights of property ” is no
longer regarded as ample; justification for a
plan of public plunder. Sir Henry Parkes also
lightly touched upon the same topic. He could not
see why, in view of the great enhancement to the
value of all adjacent property occasioned by the
construction of a railway, land-owners should
demand compensation. No more do we. Indeed,
we go further, and we predict that, before many
years shall have passed, a Government valuator
Will inspect all lands Which a proposed railway
would affect, in order to:e3timate not only how
much would require in equity to be paid to
owners of small holdings which the lines would
absorb altogether or cut into useless fractions,
but also what should be contributed to the Btate
by owners of large traots, in consideration of the
Increase of values to be effected by the expendi-
ture’ of public moneys in rendering these localities
accessible.
♦—
“Her Hour of Need.”
A cablegram says“ It is hoped in England that
the colonies will contribute to the relief of the
unemployed in England.” Here is an obvious
chance for Plain Bill Dalley to emerge from his
boiler, or whatever recess has lately served to hide
him. Here we have “ the Mother Country in her
hour of Need,” Billy. Up and be doing 1
William. But no 5 the U nornamental One main-
tains silence. He keeps the stopper in his blather-
bladder. There’s no glory in this business.
There’s no slaughter. There’s no soft soap any-
where hanging on to it to be blown into prismatic-
hued bubbles, or frothed up into a declamatory
lather. No vain fools’ noble blood surges up in
gorgeous emulation at the mere prospect of
making an un-noted sacrifice of some personal
comfort, indulgence, or luxury, in order to be able
to help snatch from misery and destitution an un-
interesting lot of squalid English people.
Had it been to help murder a parcel of
patriotic Arabs now, there would have been
no lack of enthusiasm. Plain Bill would have
been transfigured—a glorious, if podgy, spectacle
smashing the Constitution with a valour only
limited by the fact that there is no way of punish-
ing people who shatter a trifle of that kind,
although a fellow who wilfully cracks a window
pane can be sent to gaol. Oh, yes I There would
have been a pretty splutter. The Little Boy at
Manly and the old woman at Government House
would simultaneously have been inspired with the
idea of writing a letter to the noble and spirited
originator of the Patriotic Fund, and the former
would have looked among his toys for his little
cheque-book and have sat down and squared his
elbows and followed his pen with his prehensile
tongue while he laboriously wrote out in his
very best “ half text,” his order to pay Dalley or
bearer the sum of £5O-out of his pocket-money.
He would have cheerfully deprived himself of a
diamond-mounted top and a set of exquisitely
carved alley-tors to assist in so inspiring a busi-
ness. The old party at Government House would
also have, at any sacrifice, contributed his—
patronage. But for the relief of the mere starv-
ing unemployed! Faugh I What do they mean
with intruding their vulgar distresses between
the wind and our Jingoes’ somewhat recent gen-
tility ? What business is it of ours, anyhow ? We
didn’t unemploy these sufferers. Besides, haven’t
they been making a disturbance, breaking club
windows, looting jewellers’ shops, and thus for-
feiting any claim whatever to consideration ?
They should have starved in decent silence and in
well-regulated order.
♦
The Sydney "Echo” and Eoman
Catholicism.
As an example of the little progress made by
Roman Catholicism in England, the Sydney Echo
cites the fact that but three “ Romans’’—two of
them Irish—were returned for English consti-
tuencies at the last election. We think that the
circumstance points rather to the bigotry of
Englishmen than in aDy other direction. In Ire-
land, where about 83 per Gent of the people follow
Rome, a Protestant has* if anything, a better
chance of election than a Catholic. The fact
noticed by the Echo has a significance far deeper
than is attributed to it by that journal. A
conquering people always hold the conquered
in a certain contempt, just as converts look
with contempt on the faith they have for-
saken. The Norman canaille looked super-
ciliously on the Anglo-Saxons they subdued.
They viewed with equal scorn the Irish Celts they
subsequently conquered. After Jena the Parisians
estimated one Frenchman to be equal to two or
three Prussians just as, to the present day, one
Englishman is considered a match for a large
number of foreigners. After Sedan and Metz
each Uhlan thought himself fit for a company of
“red-breeches.” If the Maoris had offered no
greater resistance than the aborigines of Australia
to colonial land-grabbers no native representa-
tives would be found in Wellington (N Z.) to-day.
The Englishman has proved himself a sturdy con-
queror and an admirable colonist. Indeed, in
the latter capacity it is doubtful whether
he has ever been equalled among the world’s
ruling races. But in one thing he is entirely de-
ficient—the art of conciliating those whom he sub-
dues. This, perhaps, is not so much Bull’s fault
as the fault of the ruling classes who, for cen-
turies, denied him knowledge while cultivating
his prejudices. Now that a suffrage but one re-
move from universal has toppled the “ upper ”
classes from the elevation they so long usurped
and disgraced, the political tutelage of the Eng-
lishman may be said to have ended. It will, of
course, take time and training to bring the
ordinary Briton in line with the advanced
doctrines of to-day. And this brings us back
to the small number of Catholics returned
for English constituencies. It is not to the
absence of candidates of that creed, nor to their
ineligibility that the fact is due. It is to the pre-
judices engendered by centuries of class govern-
ment. We are no lovers of Rome or of her teach-
ings. But we trust the day is at hand when the
fact of a man’s believing in one God or three, or
none at all—in the superiority of faith over works*
or in the conviction that yearly confession is
necessary for salvation—will be kept severely out
of sight by an enlightened democracy, and that a
person’s fitness or unfitness to make laws will not
depend upon the meridian under which he hap-
pened to be born, or the faith he imbibed with his
mother’s milk.
Savings and Savings Banks.
The Savings Bank of New South Wales has pub-
lished its annual statement, and reports an in-
crease of 2855 in the number of depositors, and of
£129.397 in the amount of deposits since December,
1884. This has been the signal for some of the
Sydney daily papers to break out with the con-
ventional babble of congratulation. The Echo
and the S.M. Herald, for example, bleat forth
the supposed truism—for, if any opinion were not
apparently stamped with the warrant-mark of
antiquity, the Echo would shrink from adventur-
ing it—that “ one of the most important indices to
the thrift and prosperity of the middle classes in
our community is furnished by the annual state-
ments of the accounts of the Savings Banks of
New South Wales. The statements for the past
year have just been published, and show a most
gratifying result.” If the Echo could rise in the
scale of intelligence to the altitude of independent
thought, it might not be so cock-sure that increased
deposits in savings banks, separately considered,
are conclusive evidence of an augmentation of
thrift and prosperity among the depositors. The
fact that persons are able to make deposits is
gratifying, unquestionably. It shows that there
is a large body of people whose labour returns
them more than sufficient for maintenance. But
the fact that people do make deposits, is another
affair altogether. That may be interpreted in
many ways. Except squandering money, there is
probably no more useless way of disposing of it
than placing it in the Savings Bank, because there
is no investment which gives such paltry returns.
The increase in the number of depositors, and in
the amount of the deposits may just as fairly be
taken to signify that times are commercially bad,
and that persons find it increasingly difficult to get
profitable investment for small capital, as that it
indicates an increase of thrift. It may be thrift—
-1 but it may also—and looking at all the surround-
ing conditions more probably is—be due to a re-
striction of opportunities of advantageous use.
One thing, however, may be hoped, and that is—
that of the moneys lodged in the New South
Wales Savings Bank to be available for the larger
capitalists, who are the borrowers —some con-
siderable proportion has been withheld from that
disastrous form of investment the purchase of
slices of land, sold by forestalled to uninstructed
people of small means, who are caught by the
allurements of long terms, and the instalment
system of payment—unconscious that these are
the baits which conceal a snare of monstrous
prices.
4
A Glimmer of Reason.
Political leaders seem sometimes to have a
glimmering perception of the best economical
policy which can be followed in a new country.
The last Minister for Lands in Victoria had
plans prepared, showing all the unsold and un-
appropriated Crown lands within 20 miles of Mel-
bourne, and has left a memorandum recommend-
ing that these be permanently reserved as an en-
dowment for educational purposes. That is to
say, this Minister recommended that a portion of
the land should continue nationalized, the
rents to be devoted to a particular branch of the
national expenditure. If this be a good thing in
detail, why should it not be a good thing in whole-
sale ? Por example, why not permanently reserve
another tract of unalienated lands as an endow-
ment for the administration of Justice; a third
tract as an endowment for the construction and
maintenance of Public Works; yet another tract
as an endowment for National defence; another
as an endowment for encouragement of manufac-
tures, for Parliamentary expenses, and so forth.
By such reservations, it is quite clear, the cost of
every department of administration, and every
commercial or municipal requirement could be
defrayed. Then there would be no necesssity for
taxes 1 But all this depends upon the "if” we
started with, i e , if this reservation will really
serve as a full ample endowment for education, as
proposed by the Minister. That depends simply
upon the quantity and quality and situ-
ation of the land proposed to be nationalised.
Experience and induction are equally favourable. I
To quote a few instances. The Bishopric of Syd-
ney is maintained almost exclusively by a compa-
ratively small "endowment” of Glebe lands, in
what is now a suburb of the city. Sir Daniel
Cooper derives his vast income almost en-
tirely from an " endowment ” of land made
to him in the form of a grant. If the
colony of N.S.W. had retained these few
thousand acres, it might now have been draw-
ing the revenues which go into the pocket of an
absentee. About one building in every five of the
splendid structures which have, within the past
half-dozen years, replaced in the city of Sydney
the shabby premises of past days, is erected at a J
tenant’s cost upon leased land. The State
might just as well have remained land-
lord all the time. If, instead of jangling
in trumpery disputation as to which clique shall
have the chance of attaining power and exhibit-
ing in elevated positions the wretched idealess
plight of its members, local politicians would re-
solve that no more land shall be alienated, but
every remaining acre " reserved as an endow-
ment” for public purposes, deficits would soon
cease to trouble, and Treasurers’ temptations and
troubles would be connected with their super-
abundance of revenue.
Eoyil Tithes.
The degree of a man’s charity can be exactly
measured, and it is the only virtue which can be
reduced to strictly mathematical figures. By
charity, is meant in this sense, money gifts—be.
cause money is practically a fixed unit for all
material values whatever. A money gift, to come
under the head of charity, should bear exactly
proportion to all surplus moneys or property
which are beyond the reasonable necessities of the
class in which a man lives. When anyone has
made reasonable, and even liberal allowance, for
the claims which a certain style of lifenecessitates t
all else is surplus, and the question of what pro-
portion of that shall go the way of charity
and what reserved for the luxury that every
one naturally craves is a Bimple thing. Sup-
pose a man earns £3 a week and is a labourer-
Suppose, further, he can live quite up to his idea
of comfort on £2 10s., then the question is, if he
gives Is. out of the remaining ten in charity, is he
doing as much as is expected of him ? We main-
tain that in proportion to what the wealthy give
he overdoes his portion of charity to an enormous
extent. And this enables us to estimate two re-
cent charitable gifts (repayments without interest
they ought to be called) £5OO from the Queen and
£250 from the Prince of Wales towards the relief
of the unemployed. Fancy it 1 London now no
longer a mere city, but for wealth and population
and influence in the world—the great commercial
centre, the purse-holder of the world, the maker
or unmaker of national credits—wielder of a
mightier power than was ever held by any of the
great nations—London, at this bitter seacon, with
its tens of thousands of thousands, clamouring for
food in the slushy streets and its hundred thou-
sand shivering for shelter, and unable to do any-
thing but wrap their rags around them and die—
the London poor to be helped by £'7so out of a
household that can annually lay by half a million
that they will never need—a million drawn in great
part from the stragglings of those poor dumb
creatures. Their tithe of that should have been
£lOO,OOO on the spot, and nothing less than some
such royal duty—we will not call it charity will
at no remote date afford a check to the avalanche
begotten of wretchedness which all men who
have eyes can see approaching.
The Trustees of the New South Wales Public
Library have “ passed a resolution that in future
there be no restriction to the class of books issued ”
on Sundays. At least. Mr. Young informed Mr.
Copeland so last week. What generous persona
the trustees must be ; positively slopping over,
w© should think, with the milk of human kind-
ness. They not on'y decide to do as Parliament
has ordered them, but they positively go to the
unnecessary trouble of passing a resolution to
accentuate their obedience. There is not only
generosity in their action, but downright strategy.
Had they merely torn down the offensive
notices, and gone back on their original
ukase, which is clearly beyond their powers,
it might have been thought that they had
been coerced by Mr. Copeland and The Bul-
letin ; now they have the honour of retreat-
ing from their invasion of the rights of the people
with drums beating and banners flying. A fort-
night ago it was darkly rumoured that the trustees
intended to shut up the lendiog branch on Sunday
altogether. Prudence has evidently forced them
to face the inevitable. The flrst answer to Mr.
Copeland, as much as this last one, shows that in
the public interest the trustees want a little watch-
ing, and we are not sorry that our articles in this
connection have led the trustees to a truer esti-
mate of their position and powers.
Sir John Robertson, when called upon by
by Sir Patrick Jennings in re the formation of a
Ministry, only consented to act with Sir Patrick
on condition that Mr. Garvan, the mover of the
resolution which wrecked the late Robertson-
O’Connor Ministry, was not to be included in the
new team. Consequently, Mr. Garvan was not
waited upon by Sir Patrick Jennings. Sir John’s
hostility to Mr. Garvan appears to arise mainly
from the fact that the condition of parties, at the
time of the passing the vote of want of confi-
dence, was such that probably no one but Mr.
Garvan could have successfully submitted such a
resolution to the House. Mr. Garvan, who seems
all along to have been opposed to the coalition
idea, now goes into Opposition.
The New South Wales Assembly, on Tues-
day night, presented a curious spectacle. The de-
feated Premier moved the adjournment till 7 p.m.
on that night to allow the leader of the Opposition
to form a Government, the coming Premier re-
maining significantly silent. It was only the in-
tervention of the speaker which changed the
motion to an ordinary one of adjournment, and
gave Sir Patrick 24 hours more to collect his ill-
assorted team. Mr. Abbott did not add to his re-
putation by his short speech, in the course of
which he broached the extraordinary doctrine
that as there were no party-lines in the House
members could join any leader who might come
to the front. There is precious little adherence to
principle in any part of the Houße, but it is impos-
sible to follow out Mr. Abbott’s doctrine and con-
sider, say, the Radical O’Sullivan a suitable col-
league for the Conservative Abbott, or the Pro-
tectionist Melville for the Freetrade Burns. Pos-
sibly Mr. Abbott asserted the doctrine for his own
particular benefit. His position with regard to
the Robertson Ministry has been so curiously in-
consistent that it was worth while to adopt any
theory to account for it. He it was who tried to
oust Sir John Robertson before the late Cabinet
had appeared as a Ministry on the Treasury
benches. Next we find the aspiring Abbott
coquetting* with the leaders of the Coalition, in
which several of Sir John’s Cabinet were to be re-
tained.
Thi Rates of Subscription to Thb bulletin
are—For one year, 345.; half-year, 13a. 6d.;
quarter, 6a. 6d.—ln advance.
Thb Advertising Rates are 6a. per lneh!
special poaltiona In the paper 7a. 6d. per
Inch. Paragraph advertisements 10a. per Inch,
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows:—On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions!
16 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 25 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under 41, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
C. W. ROBERTS
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only 9s.
Small Bottle, , lU. 8<?,
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOB INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
is. 6d. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
Is. per Bottle
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN—'IN FLASKS,
ls«9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henkeis Prize Medal Brand,
in stone bottles and square bottles,
LARGMST BIZB.
IRISH AKD SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MALLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
C. W. ROBERTS
Quorjjß and Market Streets*
ITDNiT.


What is Socialism?
This is a question which has lain in our
ind for many years. We do not yet feel our-
m, B competent to fully elucidate it. Socialism
has an extensive literature of its own. Its prin-
ciples, as we understand them, are co-tempora-
eous with organised and recorded thought. They
n e discoverable in the social laws of Moses as re-
in the Hebrew Scriptures, recognisable in
the philosophy of Plato, prominent in the moral
ode of Jesus of Nazareth, scattered through the
idealisings of Moro; and, later, glimmer amidst
the works of the French Encyclopaedists; and, in
modern times, find strong and coherent expres-
sion in the works of St. Simon in France, Lassalle
and Karl Marx in Germany, and, still more
recently, in pamphlets and brochures by Hyndman,
Morris. Campbell, and a rapidly increasing host of
other writers in England. Our list is. doubtless,
as incomplete as our knowledge. Henry George,
however, is not a Socialist, although the designa.
tion has constantly been flung at him as a term of
obloquy. In a recent English publication, we ob-
serve, a Socialist writer remarks: “I object to
Henry George, not because he is a Socialist, but
beoauee he is not a Socialist.” The objection to
r e orge seems to be that he halts on the threshold
nf necessary reform, and, while offering a genuine
remedy for some of the evils of existing society in
his plan for national appropriation of all land
rentals, he errs in insisting that his remedy is a
nanacea- a cure for all social evils. The thorough-
going Socialist contends that, while George’s
remedy for the evils of landlordism is effectual for
those evils, there remain unhealthy relations be-
fh Capital and Labour which would still disor-
«r me entire body politic, even were the cancer
ot laa d-monopoly extirpated.
• ■ ■
6 heartily wish that more competent and
nnrL e .i u , lly informed teachers than ourselves would
thß a take the dutyof informing the public what
jnnaning and significance of this growing
thST^ ociali8 m- a re. But during all the years
stninH bave ourselves awaited and expected in-
Wfl Ho on through the medium of the local press,
inl3. received worse than none. We have read
own sneers and scoffs, which even our
ahins p 2 rfcct acquaintance with the subject en-
ai[ a Q r R 8 Perceive were not justified. In short,
with +1 “ ave been employed to disgust readers
kennin 1 8 name of Socialism, while sedulously
say iw iL lem ignorant of what Socialists have to
wjfWif themselves. A superficial acquaintance
brief ldeas of St. Simon, learned from sundry
Btudv.iy 3 i!? aries in English magazines: a frequent
Testamn * 6 laws of Moses, embodied in the Old
of thn“n7., ; . and a constant and appreciative study
in the Principles of Jesus of Nazareth, as recorded
oentiv o w Testament, have been, until very re-
altor, a* apart from reflections original to ourselves,
tone nf u fi entirc field of information. With the
anentii; Continental Socialism we are, conse-
been «>’ 8ll ffhtly acquainted, but we have
recent Pains to procure some of the most
craev Plications* by the English Social Demo-
te BihiP is from their contents, combined with
for this article We propose to draw our materials
first place, then, we will explain
as well as we can what all the trouble is about.
People naturally want to know how there came
to be Socialism and Socialists at all: what their
complaint is, and what their objects. Briefly, the
complaint is that the existing organisation of
society is all wrong; that it is antagonistic to
natural laws; that it is an organised anarchy
maintained by force and fraud; that it combines
the maximum of human suffering with the mini-
mum of true personal advantage. In more exact
terms, the Socialists’ contention is that the in-
equalities of condition—of wealth and poverty-
created and maintained by existing legalised sys-
tems, are contrary to natural justice. Wealth, as
the exceptional advantage of individuals, they
sharply affirm is maintained solely by “The Bob-
bery of the Poor.
* • •
This is the subject of Mr. Campbell’s essay.
He finds his text among the Proverbs of Salomon,
“ Rob not the poor because he is poor.” This, Mr.
Campbell remarks, seems, on the surface, a very
extraordinary exhortation. Men are told not to
rob those who have nothing to be robbed of, and
they are apparently tempted to do so by this very
fact that there is something to rob. Mr Campbell
proceeds methodically. First, he demonstrates
that there are poor in England whose penury
seems irreconcilable with the idea that they have
not suffered foul play. He reviews the conven-
tional explanations of the existence of the des-
perately poor. “ The poor are drinkers,” say the
Temperance people, “and so from temperance
platforms the people are told by the rich and well-
to-do . . . that they must really reform their
habits, and not leave their foul and desolate abodes
for the gin-shop with its glittering attractions.”
Again, they are thriftless. The grim satire of the
Earl of Derby, who enjoys an income exceeding
£170,000 a year, telling the poor of England, in a
speech at the Mansion-house, that it is tneir duty,
everyone of them, to live within their means and
lay by something every year, "as he, by much
restraint and self-denial, we are to suppose, con-
Successor to tho Thrown.—A Regular Circus.
SIR PAT.: “HOLD ON HARD, BOYS. MEBBE I'LL MANAGE.”
trives to do,” is pointed out. Next, the country
is over-populated I So cry the Malthusians and the
advocates for emigration.
“ Perhaps,” writes Mr. Campbell, “ no one sur-
passes in insolence these two kinds of reformers.
Neither have the faintest idea, or apparent desire
\o obtain the faintest idea, of what number of
people the land of England can maintain, under the
conditions laid down by the Almighty Maker of
them and it. Get rid,” he cries, “of every super-
fluous person in the land, by all means; but, per-
haps, before you talk any more about that, you
will have the goodness to And out and settle who
the superfluous person is.”
And he indicates pretty clearly that the super-
fluous person is more likely the idle non-producer
than the producer and worker. Again: “ The poor
must be better housed,” cry another class. “ The
State must take the matter in hmd end provide
them with fit accommodation at the lowest pos-
sible rent.” Of course, if land and wealth esoape
thtir due proportion of taxation, this remedy
would simply burden the rather poor with the
cost of accommodation for the very poor. But
Mr. Campbell simply remarks:—
“ Very well. But will any one kindly inform me
what he thinks should be ‘the lowest possible
rent ’ a woman earning sixpence a day, or a man
one shilling and fivepence, can be expected to
pay ?”
Brushing aside these futilities, the writer cries,
“ What is the root of the matter then ? ” and
answers—
“ What but this : As a people we have forgotten
God. We have forgotten what Justice means.t
We have made and passed laws, not as to us
seemed just, but as seemed expedient. We have
sought, dealing man with man, not the just thing,
but simply the gainful. And as a net result and
outcome of it all, our laws and the aocepted con-
stitution of society are such that there is going on
throughout the length and breadth of the land, in
thousands of the subtlest and cunningest of ways,
unchecked, unheeded—nay, applauded and ap-
proved of-that which the Hebrew sage of old
warned his fellow-man against—the robbery of
the poor by the rich, simply because they are
poor”
Next comes the demonstration. What have the
poor to be robbed of ? is an obvious inquiry at this
stage. The reply is, in effect, they have their pro-
perty. The property of the poor ? Nonsense I
A definition is required. What, then, is property,
if the poor are among the propertied classes ? Mr.
Campbell professes to discover that economists
have not yet provided a definition, and proposes
one of his own. Property, he holds, is that which
is proper to a thing, part and parcel of that thing,
and which cannot be dissociated from it without
it being destroyed in its distinctive nature. This
seems exact. We talk thus of the properties of a
magnet, of oxygen, of steel, and so forth. With
respect to a man, the term is evidently inapplic-
able to anything external to his own being.
“A man’s property, in its simplest meaning, is all
that rests within his own frame, all the powers of
body and mind which by nature are his. These
are all that a man can call ‘ his own,’ to which no
one but the Almighty Giver can have a prior
claim.”
This being “ private property,” what are its rights
and what is “common property?” Access to
such things and opportunities as are necessary for
the sustaining and renewing of soul and body.
That is the definition of natural rights, and of
common property. Nothing very monstrous, so
far.
* * *
Here, then, we have exact propositions.
Personal property is what belongs to each man’s
body and mind. Common property is what Nature
has provided of material things which are neces-
sary for the sustaining of life. The natural rights
of man are simply the rights of access to
these material things—in other words, the right
of living. Hence, the right of living being equal in
all men, the right of access to the material things
which are necessary for the maintenance of life is
equal to all. If this be admitted, then is private
property in land condemned, since land is one of
the material things which have in them the life-
maintaining faculty, just as air and water have.
This is, in tact, Henry George’s main conclusion,
arrived at by a distinct line of argument.
• * •
But now comes a fresh departure. Sup-
posing the right of man to have access to material
things and to produce from them by his labour,
articles of use, were not denied him, George
holds that all would be well. The Socialists dis-
pute this. They say men might still be robbed
of their labour. They declare that men are so
robbed. And they assert that it is to denial of
their common rights and to robbery of their
labour that the hopeless poverty of the many is
jointly attributable. Here, therefore, we arrive
at the conflict between Labour and Capital which
Henry George regards as inessential, the poli-
tical economists of the old school as unavoid-
able, and the Socialists as criminal. At this point
we resume our quotations from Mr. Campbell:—
“ These conditions being thus recognised, a man
is entitled, by duly exercising his powers upon any
portion of this common property, to produce any
commodity or natural wealth in a form ready for
use. ... If another man desires a similar com-
modity, let him go to the common-wealth and pro-
duce it for himself; or, what is the same thing,
let him ask the other to change it for its due
equivalent.”
That due equivalent will be some other article
upon whioh an equal amount of labour has been
expended—the “ natural ” value being common to
both. This is honest exchange. No one is the
gainer over the other. No man can become
richer than another only to the extent that he is
more labourious, more apt, or more thrifty.
Such persons will have, rightly, more claims than
others upon the general wealth, because embodied
in that wealth is more of their labour, or more of
the fruits of their personal property, their
abilities.
• ■ •
Now, as Capital is simply stored-up Labour,
under these conditions the industrious, thrifty,
and able would be the capitalists of society. But
no one would be much richer than another. That
is, considering a simple state of society. But in-
vention steps in. A machine is conceived and
constructed which can, with one man’s guidance,
produce what ten men’s labour was previously re-
quired to produoe. This machine & (say) an im-
proved kind of loom for the spinning of cotton
shirting. The community has hitherto had all its
wants supplied by ten men who have been paid in
proportion to their labour. The machine in
the hands of one man produces all that
is required; and, as only one man is to
be maintained, the product can be ex-
changed at a cheaper rate. The other nine
spinners are starved out. The one man receives
nearly as much as heretofore had been paid to ten.
Cheapness creating demand, he erects a second
machine, and offers wages to one of the nine to
work it. As there are nine men anxious to get
the occupation, they bid against one another, and
he who offers to take the smallest proportion of
his true labour value gets the post. The machine
owner now has two looms at work, equal to twenty
men's labour, and expends only his own labour
and half the value of his hired assistant’s. He
pockets the other half as part of his gain. He has
thus robbed the poor because he is poor. But
his success excites rivalry. Other machines
f,re made, and competition between capital-
ats sets in. Society, then, is for .the first
time distinctly benefited by some saving
effected of the cheapness of production being all
lowed to purchasers. Meanwhile, a starvation
class is being created among the displaced weavers.
Want and hunger have begun their ravages. They
are followed by envy, recklessness, negligence at
work, thieving, despair. Bociety begins to require
gaols, police, and slave-drivers styled overseers.
And all this they have to pay for. Against their
gain by cheapness of production has to be set-off
their loss by demoralization and misery in their
midst.
* * *
Despite our most strenuous efforts to con-
dense, we are but half way—if even so far-
through our subject. We have not yet answered
the question which appears at the head of this
article. Nor can we hope to even approximately
do justice to the exposition with the space just
now at our disposal. At this stage* therefore, wo
will break off, deferring until our next issue the
further elucidation of the extremely interesting
problems under consideration.
**trn ■
gary of monthly magazine, Is. “A Sum-
iWcliiinJPrin e ipi eB 0 f socialism,” by H. M.
the Pf»n?® n £ Wi'bam Morris. “ The Robbery of
Christian r, a t?y W. H. P. Campbell, Is. “The
orga u 7rffu oci a allBt ,” monthly, Id. “Justice,” the
“hbUshoa “Petal Democracy, weekly paper, Id.
ed by Beeves, Fleet-street, London, E.C.
tMr. Campbell has this footnote;—“Nay, we deny
its existence. The Saturday Review (No. 17) In-
forms us that there is no such thins; as a man’s
‘natural rights’; which is simply saying that
there is no suoh thing as natural justioe. Our
Saturday Reviewer would resent, we presume,
being called an Atheist.’*
A mild stimulant* a gentle tonic— Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Another instance showing the cnmmeroial
development of Sydney is found in the new firm
of Jones, Lawson Brothers, and Co., who have
taken the large buildings, Pomeroy-chambers, in
Castlereagh-street, where they begin operations
with a large and well-assorted stock of furniture,
carpets, and the general run of household require-
ments. Mr. L. Jones, late of Messrs. David Jones
and Co., gives his personal attention to the carpet
and window decorations, and Mr. J. R. Lawson,
late of the firm of James Lawson and Sons, will
undertake the cabinet department. Moreover, the
firm have secured the services of Mr. R. H. Brown,
for many years with Messrs, Lassetter and Co.,
Limited, to take charge of the bedstead and house-
hold ironmongery department. The combined
experience of practical men like these augurs well
for the success of one of the strongest “ teams ”
in the city.*
Do not impose upon your customers by substi-
tuting an imitation for the real Wolfe's Schnapps .


Personal
Items
Mr. Grist, the Melbourne scenic artisS has
been knocked down by a tramcar and seriously in-
jured. Grist to the mill with a vengeance.
According to the World, the Queen has
definitely and Anally decided that the Duke or
Connaught is in future to be employe! only in
England. Except in case o: invasion, we presume.
Hosts of people, inside and outside of the
sporting world, will regret to hear that Mr. Ed ward
l>e. Crown Prosecutor at Sydney, has again been
compelled by ill-health to take a year a leave ot
absence.
“London. Thursday.—Tn consequence ot
unpleasantness that has arisen over the divorce
case, Sir Charles and Lady Dilke have *°
visit the Australian cilcnies. Exactly. Any-
thing is good enough for the Australian colonies.
The most recent of American papers is
called The Smiths. It Is devoted entirely to the
Smith family—news of them, their marriages,
births, deaths, &o. The doings of Lord Canngton
will probably have a prominent place, unless tne
editor regards him as a traitor to the came.
Miss Ada Ward, the
actress, though [she
hooked her passage in the
John Elder, postponed
her visit to Australia at
the last moment. Ada,
we hear, is engaged to be
married to young Pears,
Eon of Pears, the big soap
man.
In reply to a letter
from the Salvation
Harmy major in com-
mand, desiring the ex-
pression of an opinion
as to that body, Mr.
David BuchanaD, the
eminent Sydney barris-
ter, is reported to have
replied as follows:-" Sir,
—I sympathise heartily
with every movement of
your organisation that
does not take place un-
derneath my wihdow.
Thus Vanity Fair
on Canon Duckworth :
“ He is a witty man, and
an excellent diner-out,
full of clever sayings
and amusing anecdotes.
When at Oxford, the
voung women admired
him, the middle-aged
women adored him, and
all the old women wanted
to have him for theif
son-in-law.’ Whether,
w ith such accomplish-
ments he would have
thrown in his lot with
the Galilean eighteen
hundred years MO* be-
fore the age of State
churches ; or whether,
having done so, he would
not have ruined all by
taking advantage of the
“Last Supper to tell a
funny story, is what we
would like to know. It
is probable that even the
Master’s presence would
net have prevented this
mad wag (whom, by the
way, the Princess Louise
wanted to marry) from
chaffing the assembled
company.
We have been glanc-
ing through Brigadier
General M’lver’s book,
“Rivals for Supremacy
in the Pacific, ’’ end have
found it, as we expected,
a great lark. The gallant
General has reproduced
all his interviews with
reporters, even the Even-
ing News one. which
concludes as follows:
“The General, with a
lurking (sic) smile under
(sic) his rigid counten-
ance, returned the com-
pliment, and again dived
into the mass of papers
which lay before him.
The General also pub-
lishes a letter from Justin
M’CaTthy, in which he
says:—" lam glad to hear
that you are going to give
an account of some of
your wonderful experi-
ences to Australian audi-
ence. I envy the audi-
ences" . • We wonder
whether the author of
“ Dear Lady Disdain
knew at the time he
wrote that note that the
gallant General reads it
all out of a book with
fierce and terrible deter-
mination ? We don t be-
lieve he did I
Mrs Campbell Praed, the Australian
authoress, whose very risqut Queensland novel,
“ Policy and PassioD,” created so much uncom-
fr>rtahleness in certain colonial circles a year or
two aim is out again with a story, “The Head
Station,” which, according to Vanity Fair, is the
best and cleverest of her literary efforts.
The sun now revolves around Henniker
Heaton, M.P., and his word is law in the Milky
Way and in the Magellan clouds. From Society
anndon) —“Mr. Henniker Heaton, M.P., has
Peen staying at Cimiez, Nioe, recently, for his
health, which has been very indifferent, but he is
now better, and has returned to London.
Tt is related that a certain N.S.W. legis-
lator got angry with Harry L ivien, the legal de-
fender of injured innocence once, and triad to
bv asking—“ Is there any criminal so
so abandoned, and so utterly despicable, that
you would Sot accept his money and defend him.”
X -W e ii i don't know, exactly, said the gifted
Henry, “ what have they caught you at now ?
The insinuation made in the Sydney D. T.
that a certain well-known man about to wn is boot
on matrimony is, we should think, utterly ground-
less When last we saw the gentleman he seemed
tn us making up his raiad to a bachelor career,
linking out for some homely old woman who
would darn his socks, and see that his shirts were
S When wo saw him he was contemplating
the chorus girls at the Olympic pantomime.
Tn the London Times of sth January we
s say.?!i ssapassya? sj
Change only a translation from a living lan-
SSSreinto a dead one. “ Faber’’being theLatm
Qmith “as every school-boy knows.” What a
it would cause in Sydney were Burdett
return w Mr. Burdett Faberl
The mighty Marshal Yon Moltke is
serlouslv ill. He is in his 80th year, for he was
born i n 1800. That, by tb e way. was also the birth-
year ot the venerable Dr.. George Bannett, of
Sydney, whose name as a raturalist is better
known in Europe than in N.S W., and who, though
he, 50 years ago, wrote a book on Australia. l3 io-
day the happy owner of a cheerfulness and intel-
ligence and an interest in life which may well be
the envy of many a man half a century his junior.
Rothschild—the Paris one-is preparing
for the Commu' e. He has spent £lOOO on putting
bis bouse into a state of complete defence. Jbe
windows have been barred, the shutters armour-
plated, and all the entrances have been so barri-
caded that by the barring of a single gate the
whole becomes unassailable by the strongest mob.
A large number of iron strong boxes stand m
readiness to receive the oil paintings and other
valuables, so that they can be stowed out oi
harm’s way on the least alarm. Tho Bastille was
mpregnable, wasn't It?
Scene : The Protestant Standard office:
Rev. Zichary Birry discovered sitting at his table
reading tho merning paper. Clenches his hand in
his hair, and mutters fiercely—' So Bradlaugh is
coming out to pay us a visit 1 The intern .
Bov!’ Boy enters. “Put some more gall in that
ink-pot, and see that no one is allowed in her© [or
another two hours.” (Softly to himself) I must
compile some new curses, the old ones have lost
ail their vigour.”’ (Gloomily)— lhey have no
more effect on unbelievers than pea-nuts on tne
hide of a rhinoceros.” Is left compiling.
A young gentleman who went home
from Sydney some years ago to qualify himself as
a surgeon and physician. aDdtook them— M.K.C.a.
Eugland,” and “ L R.C.P. Edinburgh ’’—got into a
scrape in Ballarat the other day. The magistrate
asked him what he was. and he replied as above.
Asked to produce his diploma, he replied that it
THE LATE W. H. VANDERBILT
[The Richest Man in the (next) World.]
was in the possession of a bootblaek with whom
he had left it for safe keeping.” This was dis-
covered to be true. The local papers affect to be
surprised at his leaving so valuable a document in
the hands of a bootblack. We are not. No doubt
he thought the bootblack the only honest man m
Ballarat.
Mr. R. M. Horsfall, one of the first who
formed the staff of the Central Australian
(Bourke, N.S.W.), died ia the Bourke hospital the
other day. He lived among country papers,
although for some short time he gave Sydney a
trial. A typographical associate gives him the
following professional send-off wherein all the
jokes are carefully italicised: -
He took his stand upon the rule there was
no justification to fudge work, and while
making ready to snow first for m,
would give clean proof that his chase was
to rise to perfecting point.
His companionship was no half-title, nor
lightly cast-off, and wbi.e we thus
advert to, regis'er, and pass an apostrophe
upon tne good colour of his life,
let us hope his last bed is soft, and that
his soul, having passed the moke up
of this body, may fly to that. fountain where
the devil never can get in.
The name of Waldock is one which, in
Australia, is intertwined with good sporting
memories and recoil €cfcion3 of gallant deeds or
horsemanship. Thomas Waldock, a groom, loved
Kate Hickey, a servant employed by Mr. Walter
Lamb, of Sydney. He took to drink and she dis-
missed him. Whereupon he waited on her, bade
her a “long farewell,” stepped back, put a pistol
to his mouth, and shot himself dead. Upon him
were found three photographs (two of them like-
nesses of his sweetheart), two pawn-tickets, a
prayer-book, and other things—reminding one of
the watch and other trifles found in Jack
Wortley’s pocket—'*things which women who had
loved him had Riven him”-" when the Poor youth
fell with Diego’s bullet in bis heart. Alas, Toin
Waldoek 1 How is it that the pawn-ticket is ever
the corollary of Love!
Anecdotes of Bishop Moorhouse are
cropping up in the Melbourne papers now that
that free and fiery prelate is about to -leave the
colony. Here is one:—The Bishop was Bbn*{?
somewhere by rail, and in the same carriage with
him was a gentleman who liked (in the manner of
St. Paul) to be all things to all men. He therefore
talked to his lordship In a strain very bign
flown morality. The conversation turned to the
practice of giving railway officials t'P 3 ’ . Ar®
gentleman condemned it in v«ry vigorous
“ Wei), Mr. ’ remarked the Bishop, if the Go-
vernment do not provide me with civil servant t>
I take good care to provide them for myself.
The gentleman who liked to be all thins£_ to
men relapsed, on hearing thil the
santry, into gloom such as can only he seen in the
frontseats of a minstrel show.
An A merican paper (the Milwaukee Sun)
says;—“The late Mr. Swan, of Newcastle, N.8.W.,
was the strongest manofhlsday. In addition to
carrying about his own lveight ot 35 stone, ne
could lift a heavier weight than
living. His residence was half-way between the
coal-mines and the town, aud whenever a h *-*L rt
laden with coal stuck in the road and the horses
were unable to extricate it, Sampson Swan, as t e
miners styled him, was sent fcr. He would dis-
mount from his bicycle (I), lift the cart with ease,
and frequently, when the horses broke down
under their loads, in some of which cases they
would die of fatigue, Swan would put the eart on
his back and carry it into town witnout letting h:s
pipe go out. For these services Mr. Swan was
very well paid, and being a man of steady habits,
amassed a considerable fortune before his de-
mise.’' Now, we have known Newcastle neigh-
bourhood for a good many years, hut we have
been unable to discover Mr. Swan or anyone
acquainted with him. We begin to have a painful
feeling doubt ou this subject. But we did once
meet a strong man in the peison of a Victorian
storeman, Jame 3 Harris, who was able to carry on
his back a hale of 100 Dundee woolpaeks (101 b.
each, besides the canvas covering and the hoop-
iron binding around them) a distance of 30 yards.
The Melbourne Argus is occasionally
almost humorous in its attacks on Its bete noir—
Socialism. Thus, in referring to the ringleader—
-88 it calls him—of the recent riots in London, it
says :—“Mr. H. M. Hyndman is a well-to-do gen-
tleman, with a reputation as a gourmand. One of
his nearest relatives is at present confined in a
lunatic asylum.” Now, if Mr. Hyndman, instead
of being a prominent Socialist, had been a rabid
Conservative, we venture to say [this statement
about lunacy in his family would never have been
alluded to in the softest whisper, and it stead ot
being called a gourmand he would have been
described by the more delicate term gourmet.
Which side a man takes makes all the difference.
We venture also to fay that, if instead of posing
ai a True Bluo Tory, Mr. Henniker Heaton had
chosen the manly part, and stood up ai a Libera l ,
the Tory papers at home, instead of referring to
him. as a “ distinguished colonist who traced his
ancestry baok to the”-De Battleaxe Burgoos, or
whoever they were—would have alluded to him as
a person born in the old-time penal colony of New
South Wales, believed to be descended from con-
vict ancestry, and bearing every mark of it in his
psrsonal appearance.” He would, in fact, have
got off lightly if they had not hinted that ha was
suspected of cattle-stealing and other crimes of an
even more infamous character.” It. is a curious
world.
Sir Samuel Wilson occupies the manor-
house of the late Lord Beaconsfleld. For whom is
reserved the distinction of reclining in the late
carriages, controlling the late fiery steeds, and
napping in the late arm-ehalra of that quick-witted
American, Mr. Mortimer Franklyn.the e nterprising
proprietor of the Federal Australian, Vio-
torian Review, and erst of the Melbourne
Evening Would, which brought down Mr.llenty
with a crash after he had spent tecs of thousands'?
Mortimer Franklyn, who landed in Australia a few
years ago unknown, and, so to speak, sans a cent,
n&s been a “ wonder ”in his time. He has started
newspapers, been supported by baronets and our
»oldest families,” and been driven about while
canvassing for ads. by a gorgeous ilunkey, who,
while waiting for his illustrious master, crossed
his arms in a way which smacked more strongly of
the ancien regime than anything we ever saw out of
the Fanbourg St. Germain. This is how it reads:—
“ LiabiliMes, £20,014: 83. 1?.; estimated assets,
£2B 085178., giving a nominal surplus of £2071 Bi.
114 Of the debts, £7551 are secured on
real estate in St. Kuda and Melbourne,
£l2 387 17a. on personal property, and the
balance of £6067 is not secured. As to the
assets, the estimated value of the real property is
£10,700. The personal property, including the
plant and goodwill of the Federal Australian
and the Victorian Review, and 2450 shares in R.
Goldsbrough and Co., Limited, is valued at
£14.638 17?. ’ Running our ej e over it all in the
catalogue, we think of Ford’s lines:—
“ Glories of human greatness are but [pleasing
dreams,
And shadows soon decaying—”
“ What a World it is!” But, after all, from one
standpoint, Mortimer is a lucky man. One
Greathead got a verdict for libel damages against
the Federal on the very day on which the pro-
prietor filed his schedule. Insolvency in Vi Aoria
completely releases the defendant in a libel action
from liability. Under the N.S.W. law, Franklyn
wouldn’t have been protected by his insolvency.
He would, in default of paying the amount of
verdict and costs, have had to go to gaol for a
year.
That distinguished
politician and journalist,
William Henry Loquat
Bailey, is dead in favour
of North Queensland
Separation. When it be-
comes an accomplished
fact, W. H. L. will likely
be rewarded with the post
of Caw Beadle.
“In the Supreme
Court of Queensland, Ec-
clesiastical Jurisdiction,
in the Will of Mesumbab,
late of Bundaberg, in the
colony of Queensland,
Polynesian labourer, de-
ceased. Notice is hereby
triven that after the ex-
piration of fourteen days
from date of the publi.
cation hereof in the
Queensland Govern-
ment Gazette, applica-
tion will be made to the
said Honourable Court
that probate of the Will
of the abovenamed Mes-
umbah, deceased, may be
granted to Tommy
Bokarra, of Bundaberg,
aforesaid, labourer, the
sole executor named in
the said Will. Dated this
9th day of February,
ad. 1886. Robert H.
Dyball, Bourbon-street,
Bundaberg. proctor for
said executor. Town
agents—Foxton and Car-
dew, solicitors, &c., Bris-
bane.” The foregoing,
from a Bundaberg paper,
will at once convince the
most sceptical persons of
the high state of civilisa-
tion attained by the
kanaka labourer in
Queensland.
Hon. Peter I alor,
Sptakerof the Victorian
Assembly, has twice re-
fused a knighthood. Hon.
James Service, the retir-
ing Premier of Victoria,
has once refused a
knighthood. We are not
surprised at Mr. Peter
Lalor s refusal of this
cheap bauble, because he
has always been a sound
democrat. He was one
of the miners who were
hunted at the diggings
in the early days of the
goldfields in the Southern
colony, and was among
those who were shot
down at the Eureka
Stockade, near Ballarat,
and the hon. gentleman
lost his arm in the con-
flict with the authorities,
who for a time set a price
on his head. Ex-Premier
Service never had any of
Mr. Lalor's experiences,
but neither aie we sur-
prised at that politician’s
refusal of a knighthood,
because there would be a
difficulty about “ Lady ”
Service. There is no
such difficulty in Peter
Lalor's way. That gentle-
man has long held the
opinion that democrats
should not accept titular
honours.
One member, at least, will not seek re-
election for the new Parliament in Tasmania. He
will be missed, for in debate he was a fearless and
independent member. But he violated a rule of
“Society’’—which runs thusly: “Sin not; but if
you sin do not get found out on pain of ostracism ”
—and “ Society " has made it hot for him. So he
will seek oblivion in a colony larger than that
which saw the meetiegot: the first Federal Couuci’.
A paper remarks “ that His Excellency
Lord Cartngton is gradually getting his hands
too full.” As a matter of fact, no ordinary pair of
hands could stand the wear and tear o! this con-
tinual shaking. One thing certa'n: His Excellency
will have given the affectionate grip business
best for a while, or at once order out a glover’s
clump. The Prince of Wales is kept pretty busy,
too, sometimes, when he’s out, but fi.R.H. takes
mighty good care only to shake hands with his
hat.
The Marchioness of Westmeath has just
been fined in Hammersmith Police Court 3s. 6d.
for being drunk and disorderly. It is almost un-
necessary to state that the Marchioness was with-
out either money or position in society, otherwise
she would either have got drunk in her own man-
sion and rolled about her own grounds, or have
been shepherded in her carriage by attentive
menials. Had she by any chance fallen into the
clutches of the law, seven or eight distinguished
phjsicians would have been in attendance to
swear that her ladyship was a sufferer from a form
of complaint with a fine long Latin name, and that
one of the effects of the malady was to make her
faoe red and her breath smell of drink. It is only
the other day, in fact, that a lady who did some
wholesale shoplifting in London was extricated by
medical testimony of that kind; and in Paris
almost simultaneously a lady tried shoplifting
lately and pleaded irresponsibility on the ground
that the idea of theft was “ suggested ” to her by a
malignant person with magnetic influence over
her. Dr. Charcot and two other eminent doctors


wore sailed in and gave the magistrate such con-
vincing evidence of the possibility of hypnotic
anffcestions that the lady was acquitted and re-
moved to the Salpetriere Hospital, where Dr.
Charcot intends to experiment on her. Of
nonrse when a poor starving wretch of a woman
meals a loaf, or gets tipsy on gin, there is no
F. hvnotic suggestion ” Buch a one is simply
debited with low thieving propensities or drunken
hahits. The Marchioness of Westmeath, is now,
Semite her tinsel title, a wretched, friendless
waif, and that explains why she was fined 3i. 6d
Tier history is a queer one. She was a girl of
mean extraction, but endowed with great par-
«nnal beauty, singularly pleasing manners, and a
winning address. The Marquis of Westmeath,
then a widower of 63 years of age, having recently
lost his first wife, a daughter of the Marquis of
Salisbury, saw the humble beauty of 19, and
married her in 1855 The usual May and December
consequence ensued. The Marquis’ estate was
small, and his income was straitened for a person
of his rank, but he made a liberal settlement on his
wife and was very generous to her family.
In 1860, Lady Westmeath went to Dieppe, where
she made the acquaintance of Mr. George Edward
Chapman, son of the then British Consul at that
nort, and became intimate with him. The follow-
ing year she lived with Mr. Chapman as his wife at
Matlock, in Derbyshire. When she returned to
her husband's home in London, she continued her
intimacy with Mr. Chapman. Lord Westmeath’s
eyes were opened to his wife’s infidelity by her
Ladyship’s maid, who betrayed the guilty pair and
trave Lord Westmeath a letter addressed by his
wife to her lover. This letter, which was signed
“ Cbickie,” spoke of the old husband ss “Fidget ”
and contained many endearing terms for Mr.
Chapman. A jury estimated the loss of the lady as
worth £5OO, and a divorce was granted The Mar-
ti uis re-married, and so did the quasi-Marchioness,
to a young ne’er-do-well. The cause of her arrest
was her appearance in High-street, Nottiag Hill,
drunk and flourishing a Bhillelah, which in Court
she called her wand.
Physiognomical indications are by no
means infallible. Hon. James Service, the ex-
Victorian Premier, is an able man, yet his face
affords a remarkable illustration of the atavistic
peculiarity, indicating a reversion to the monkey
type. James can shitt his eyebrows and wag his
ears most beautifuily, and he shifts and wags them
accordingly. Apart from the few alleged human®
so highly gifted in this direction, the monkeys and
the donkeysjare the only creatures that can wobble
their eyebrows in an exactly similar manner.
Darwin observes that in the animals mentioned
the slightest variations in the position of tbe ears
serve to express in the plainest manner variatior s
in their states of mind. While Mr. Service occu-
pied the chair as President of the late Federal
Council at Hobart, he, of course, could not orally
take part in the debates. But aurieularly he was
most eloquent. His ears, which are, of course, a
bit nearer to his brain than is his tongue, afforded
all the time a marvellously accurate index of his
mental condition from moment to moment. One
minute you’d see them standing straight up, the
fide of each constituting as awful a precipice as
that of the “ Organ Pipes” on Mount Wellington;
in a second or two a wave of feeling, which stole
fleetly around the convolutions of his brain would
lower his auricular appendages to, in sporting
parlance, half-cock, a position wherefrom they
would, as he listened to the orator in possession of
the floor, he modified from time to time by cur-
rents of pleasurable or painful sensation-currents
which toyed or dallied with the controlling mus-
cles of his head-flaps as the zephyrs toy with the
strings of an ASoiian harp or the stringy leaves of
the mournful she-oak. As the president of this
memorable Imperial Federation Chivoo— for that,
after all, was what it was turned into by Sam.
Griffith—was thus atavistically gifted, how regret-
able is the oversight which found novice-chair for
the Soudan donkey, the proper representative on
such an occasion of the great colony of N.8.W.1
“All the carnivora,’’ says Darwin, “tight with their
canine teeth, and all, so far as I have observed,
draw back their ears when feeling savage.” The
moral of this latter sentence will he obvious to
those whom the H onourable James Service meets
while “ doing Yurrup.”
Memo, for N.S.W. Attorney-General. Writes
a Northern correspondent:—Dear Bulletin.—
** Nothing new under the sun,” said the wise man
thousands of years ago, and in this rapid age when
we who "live ” have “done ” everything from the
“Mikado” to a circus in the back country, have
seen Beaoh, Hanlan, and other aquatic celebrities
displaying square feet of bare pelt, and exciting
among the fair sex the musole worship that dates
A FRAGMENT.
AT THESE CRUEL WORDS ARABELLA PAUSED AND WEPT UPON HIS BOSOM.
back to the days of the Gladiatorial arena—when
we have done Flemington and Randwiek, have
seen Miller paste Foley, and gazed with delight! on
the gastronomic feats of Mr. Blbby, the por-
ridge-eater, and these thiDgs have no longer the
power to rouse within us either interest or ad-
miration, then, indeed, do we And in our own
hearts the echo of those words The man who, in
these times, can invent a new sensation is a public
OVER A CUP OF TEA.
MBS. GRINDERSON: “DO YOU KNOW, MRS. SNIPPER, TOM AND I HAD SUCH A DE-
LIGHTFUL DRIVE. WE WENT TO GLADESVILLE. TO VISIT THE ASYLUM. IT
WAS LOVELY. AND (with great animation) OH, MBS. SNIPPER, YOU OUGHT TO GO
THERE! ”
MRS. SNIPPER: “CHARMING, IT MUST BE. AND I WONDER HOW, ONCE YOU GOT IN
THERE, YOU COULD EVER HAVE GOT AWAY!”
benefactor. All honour to those, therefore,
whose luminous brains evolved the happy idea of
utilising the thrilling incidents and prurient details
of a criminal ciurfc for the ediiioation and enjoy-
ment of a pleasure-seeking public. We have
all wept over the wrongs and sufferings of the
incooent in melo-drama, and rejoiced at the ulti-
mate discomfiture of vice and triumph of virtue;
but we have gone aw ay with a» uueaU?fled feelipg
that the thing was only acted and not real, and
because we knew that in all probability the
pretty heroine of the piece and the heavy villain
were then supping side by side on tripe and
onions. We were tired of this simulating of the
passions; we longed for something real. We got
it. Ten months had elapsed since the finding of
the dead body of a man in a far Northern river
of N.S.W. Tremendous interest was felt at
the time, from the mystery which enveloped the
whole affair. When found, the face was so de-
composed as to be past recognition. No one was
missing. Who, then, could tell in what direction
to seek the murderer when the victim and, o f
course, the motive were totally unknown ? Hun-
dreds of theories were propounded, hut nothing
had been discovered, and the mystery was gradu-
ally and reluctantly relegated to the undiscover-
ablos. The town had resumed its normal quiet-
ness, when like a thunderclap came the news
that the murderer was discovered and arrested.
Here, then, was the grand opportunity, and
luckily, the master-mind to grasp it. A remand
for a week was applied for and granted. This
gave everyone time to hear of the case, and the
management time to make their preparations.
The prisoner was to be tried on Tuesday, and on
Monday it was made known that every accom-
modation would be provided for the public, that
as the courthouse was email, couit would beheld
outside, so that all might see and hear the case
tried. Accordingly on Monday morning a large
sail was borrowed and converted into an awning
to shelter the stalls and pit, while chairs were re-
served for ladies on the verandah beside the
Bench. Towards 10 o'clock some hundreds of
people had assembled. Much satisfaction was ex-
pressed at the consideration that had been shown
for their comfort, and, soon after, the show com-
menced. Then our cup of joy was full. To sit
there, sheltered from tie rays of the burn-
ing sun, a nice light breeze blowing off
the river, and creating a musical ripple
at our very feet, and then and there
to gaze our fill on a real, live murderer. A man
whose hands bad (it was alleged, anyhow) been wet
with warm human blood, who had chopped the
back of a man s head into pulp with a tomahawk,
and afterwards put the body in a bag, tied a bag of
heavy stone 3 to one leg, and, a la Nicholis and
Lester, thrown 1 h 3 whole into the river, and all be-
cause he’d caught the man kissing his wife or some-
thing. This was what we had sighed for. What
pleasure, too, to look at and listen to the accom-
plice who saw the deed committed, standing in the
witness-box giviDg all the horrible details of the
c ime. Oh, it was glorious! There were a number
of ladles present, and how they relished all the
particulsmTof the little domestic deputes, the hus-
band's jealousy, the endearing epithets born of
suspicior, how that suspicion became a certainty
by But there is a good deal I cannot repeat, yet
to the credit of the ladies be it recorded, they
would not allow aDy false delicacy to prevent
their enjoyment to the full of the treat that had
been so generously provided for them. Perhaps
the most delightfully thrilling scene was when
the wife (who had been arrested that morning
as accessory after the murder) was first brought
forward, hysterically crjing and shrieking, pro-
testing before God her innocence one moment,
and praying !or her two children the next. It was
better than even Pomeroy or Dargon, and only
for tbe hippy cor esption of an open-air trial, not
more than one-fifth of the people could have en-
joyed the spectacle. Too much, therefore, cannot
be said in favour of the idea and its promoters.
Everything passed off without a hitch during the*
two days the trial lasted, tbe only subject for re-
gret being in the fact tin t the prisoners could only
be c mmitted, for there is no doubt that could
they have been found guilty, and hanged on the
spot, every one would have been much better
pleased, and it would have made a splendid closing
scene to so refined and elevating an entertain-
ment.
This seems rather a lame and impotent
conclusion to what promised to be a lively elope-
ment. A young fellow at Orange, named Billy
Freeman (well off) cleared out with Alice Taylor,
one of whose misfortunes was to be under 16.
Billy was, of course, “pinched” promptly, and to
get out of the trouble married the girl on the
morning of the trial. The bride was much
cheered by the people on leaving, and it
was remarked that the groom appeared to bear
the happiness thus suddenly thrust upon him with
much serenity and composure.
A curious argument is attributed to Dr.
L iwellin, of Melbourne Hospital. As an example
of the evil effects following the segregation of
patients suffering from different complaints, he is
reported to have said that there were now attend-
ing the Melbourne Hospital students " who had
not tbe faintest idea as to what erysipelas was,”
now that the erysipelas patients had been removed
to a separate building. Further, that students
were not afforded the same facilities for instruc-
tion) in special wards or hospitals that they en-
joyed in a general ward or a large hospital.” Up
to} this we always laboured under the idea that
it was for the cure of the sick that such institu-
tions; were established, and that aggregation or
segregation should be followed solely with a view to
give patients a chance for their lives. But we live
and learn. If greater facilities are afforded the stu-
dents by sandwiching erysipelas patients between
fever ones why—sandwich them. The mortality
will increase, but that is tbe sufferers’ business.
To classify inmates and so oblige young saw-
boneses to leave the scarlet-fever ward if they
wish to study the symptomotology of measles is
outrageous.
Nellie M. (St. Leonards) asks for a simple
way to crochet a round-table cover. This query
was evidently intended for the Sydney Town and
Country Jernil, wh'ch gives some very lively
reading in this business every week, although
most of the tales lack plot-, and are just a trifle too
indelicate. It's a long time now since we thumbed
theth ead and needle, Nellie, but as near as we
can recollect you should work nine stitches,
turn back, two stitches in third bar, half
right and left, three chain, B to Qfth, ch. t
K takes P, and Castles. Then make eignt chain,
and fasten to X P 7th. loop, and turn back, keeping
the red in baulk; carefully remove every particle
of fat and garnish with half an ounge of delirium
tremens au natural, work two stitches, andante
pizzicato, white to play and mate in three stitches,
straddle your partner's blind, simmer gently for
half an hour, and finish off with small caps or non-
pareil. That’s our advice, Nellie.
Here is an ingenious denouement“ A
few days later Mr Phillip Looseley received the
following epistle from his uncle, the peer:— 1 Sir,—
You have behaved like a scoundrel. You have
betrayed a trusting girl by a most rascally and
despicable trick. There is but one atonement in
your power. You must marry Miss Greener
within a fortnight, or I will disinherit you —Your
uncle, Norroway.’ Mr. Looseley smiled sardoni-
cally as he read this laconic epistle, and, after due
deliberation, he answered it thus:—‘My Lord,—l
beg to acknowledge your letter of the —th inst.
I .entirely demur to the statement contained
therein, and I must respectfully decline to accept
your suggestion that I should marry Miss Greener.
I am sorry that you should have thought fit to
enforce your behests by a threat. It may have
escaped your memory that it is not in
your power to prevent my succeeding in
course of time to the family title and estates pro>-
vided that I outlive you-a contingency which I
cannot help regarding as more than proba-
ble—Your obedient nephew, Philip Looseley.’
But Mr. Looseley's satisfaction was somewhat
Bhort-lived Just a fortnight later he received a
triangular paefcet, tied up with whit 9 ribbon, and
a note to the following effect:— ‘ Dear Sir,—l beg
to inform you that 1 yesterday married Miss
Greener. You will thus perceive that your pro-
spect of succeeding to the family title and estates
is not quite so certain as you appear to imagine.
It will, nowever, doubtless be a profound consola-
iion to you to rf fleet that, in any case, either you
or your son must succeed to the position I now
hold.—Sincerely yours, Norroway.’ Of course,
everyone said that Lord Norroway was mad; but
he, at all events, succeeded in disinheriting his
nephew, for the child was a son, and Mr. Looseley
realised somewhat too late that, for oncB in a way,
he had been a trifle too clever.”
What cm Cuticura do for baby ?
Everything that is purifying, beautifying, and
irritative tor the skin and scalp the Cuticura
Remedies will do. Nothing in medicine so agree-
able, so speedy, and so wholesome. Guaranteed
absolutely Dure and safe by the analytical chem-
ists of the State of Massachusetts, whose certifi-
cates accompany every package. For cleansing
the skin and scalp of birth humors, allaying
itching, coating, and inflammation, for curing the
first symtoms of eozetns, psoriasis, milk crust, and
other inherited shin diseases, Cuticura, the great
Briq cure, and Cuticura Soap an exquisite skin
oeautifler, are infallible.
There is no calculating- what the human frame
oao bear, fortified by tfae celebrated Wolfe's
bchnappts,
Vitalize your enfeebled system and live; there
is health and Strength to every bottle id Wolfe/8
Schnapps,


The Explorers.
They travelled over deserts lone,
Seeking the land unknown.
They died upon the burning sand.
The world for them may roll around—
Or cease, they reck not—they have found
The Unknown Land.
V.J.D.
We read that the broken-hearted young
woman who jumped off the Clifton suspension
bridge (the highest in England), and escaped
almost unhurt, reoeived three offers of marriage
while in the hospital. Very likely, those suitors
were circus proprietors, and each wanted a wife
whom he could load into a cannon and fire against
a brick-wall for the delectation of a large and
discriminating audience.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS.
Palace Emporium,
Haymarket only.
SPONGE’S ENAMELLED MINCERS.
No. 1, 63. 6d.; 2,105; 3,13 fl. 6d.
We make it our particular study to excel in such
goods.
Only Universal Providers in Australia.
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee Mr. John Bolomon
Business Manager. .. Mr. B. N. Jones.
19th WEEK of the DAMPIER SEASON.
BRDLIANT SUCCESS.
UNCLE TOM’S CABIN
achieved the most positive success ever recorded.
THE ONLY JOHN P. SHERTDAN and Miss
MAY LIVINGSTONE.
Mr. DAMPIER and Mies KEMBLE created an
IMMENSE SENSATION.
Manager for Mr. Dampier .. ..FRED. GUNTHER.
OADBMY OP MUSIC.
THE PALACE of the MONARCHS of MIRTH and
MINSTRELSY.
Bole Proprietor and Manager .. F. E. Hiscocks.
80th WEEK 80th.
Another Splendid Success with pure Minstrelsy.
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and Speciality Union.
SATURDAY NEXT. BORLESQUE.
UNCLE TOM’S CABIN (re-painted).
For Vacant Dates, apply F. E. Hiscocks.
THE ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
George-street, Haymarket.
Lessee and Director Mr. Frank Smith.
The Home of Minstrelsy and Mirth.
The Popular and Fashionable Resort.
TO-NIGHT, and every evening during the week,
the Alhambra Variety and Speciality Union in
their Refined Entertainment,
MINSTELSY, OLIO, and FARCE.
Popular Prioes: Orchestra chairs, 2s; stalls, Is;
balcony, Is.
Artists of acknowledged ability disengaged,
please communicate with Mr. Frank Smith.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED;,
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as followsS EVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UP WARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
TO THE MEMBERS OF THE AUSTRALIAN
MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
T ADIES AND GENTLEMEN,—I respectfully
1 A Solicit your Votes and Interest as a Director
of your Society. „ „
. FREDK. LEE.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, February 23, 18E6.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of whlob
Is kept at every Post Offloe in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to aocept
the lowest or any tender.
JACOB GARRARD,
mHBATRB ROYAL.
JL Under the direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Gabnkb and Musgbovi.
Lessee. Mr. 8. La Bar. Treasurer, Geo.L Goodman.
Acting Manager ... Mr. H. H. Vincent.
SPECIAL DRAMATIC SEASON.
Under the patronage of hie Excellency the
Governor,
BARON CARINGTON, K.C.M.G., P.C.
The established favourite,
Mr. GEORGE RIGNOLD
Mr. GEORGE RIGNOLD,
and
Miss KATE BISHOP
Miss KATE BIBHOP,
in
CALLED BACK. CALLED BACK.
Admission : Dress Circle. 55.; Stalls, 35.; Family
Circle, 3s.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box plan open at the Theatre daily from
10 tin 5. No Free List.
w
ANTED A SITUATION
N. GOVERNESS,
in Catholic family, by a young girl. Address,
"Governess,” office of this paper.
FREE
PRESCRIPTIONS are to
be found in the “LIGHT AND
LIFE,” for the speedy cure of Nervous Debility,
Lost Manhood, Despondency, &c. A copy of
this hook will be sent free, sealed. Address—
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy.
76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
WESTER* AUSTRALIA..
TO CONTRACTORS AND OTHERS.
THE Government of Western Australia is pre-
pared to receive Tenders up to noon of
Thursday, Ist April, 1888, for the following works:
Erection of a line of Telegraph—from Roebourne,
North West Coast, to Derby, Kimberley—
with iron poles. Distance, about 500 miles.
Specification may be seen on application at the
Office of the Commissioner of Works, Sydney,
New South Wales.
J. ARTHUR WRIGHT,
Director of Public Works and Commissioner
of Railways.
Department of Public Work?,
Perth, Western Australia,
3rd February, 1886.
Jobes, Lawson Ins,, & Co.,
Cabinet Makers, Upholsters,
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN,
POMEROY-CHAMBERS, 39 CASTLEREAGH-
Street, Near Hunter-street, Sydney.
A Large and varied stock of
Furniture, Carpets, Floorcloths,
Bedsteads, and Household Ironmongery
which are direct importations, and bought for
cash in the best English and Continental markets
by Mr. J. R. Lawson, who has recently returned
from Europe, and are marked in plain figures at
the lowest possible Cash Prices.
UPHOLSTERERS’ TRIMMINGS, &C ,
TAPESTRIES and CRETONNES.
The CARPET AND WINDOW DECORATION
will be under the management of Mr. L. Jones,
late of Messrs. David Jones and Co.
The CABINET DEPARTMENT will be under-
taken by Mr. J. R. Lawson, late of the firm of
James Lawson and Sons.
MESSRS.
JONES, LAWSON BROS., & CO.
FOME H.OY-CHAMBBK.3,
CASTLERE AGH-STRE ST,
Near Hunter-street.
DEBILITATED MEN, and all suffering from
nervous exhaustion, premature decay, etc.,
etc., fully and permanently cured by the use of
the medicines of the London Medical Company.
For many years those suffering from nervous de-
bility, shattered and debilitated constitutions, loss
of manhood, premature decay, and all the ills aris-
ing from early indiscretions, over indulgences,
over brain work, etc , etc., have sought in vain for
some remedy which would restore them to that
full vigour and perfect manhood whioh they have
been deprived of. Year after year they have
placed themselves under the care of some so-called
specialist, or some great remedy company, and
after months of their treatment, involving pounds
of expense, they awake to the sad but true fact
that they are not only no better in health, but that
perhaps years of hard earned savings have been
actually thrown away. For the last year or more
still another class of advertisers have come into
the field. Men who claim that they will send pre-
scriptions free to the afflicted public. Rut what
does the patient receive on sending ? Certainly a
prescription, but one that nobody but the adver-
tiser himself can fill, and for doing which he wants
so much money as the case may be And this is
his prescription free. Some five years ago several
leading medical men in London knowing the
impositions suffered by this class of patients, and
understanding the reluctance always felt by them
for consulting regular practitioners, determined
to form a company and obtain some certain and
safe cure which they could place before the pub-
lic. With this object in view, three years were
spent in the most careful study, and treatment of
all classes of these diseases all over Europe, and
from this vast experience they are now enabled to
give to the world, a medicine which is simply cer-
tain in its effects, and will in every case effect a
safe, sure, and speedy cure. For two years the
company has been before the public in London,
and on the continent, and to-day they have many
thousand letters in which the writers state that in
their case a permanent cure has been effected. In
the United States where the company has only
been established for a year, the same wonderful
success has been met with, and the directors feel
certain that in coming before the many thousands
of afflicted in Australia, the same will be the case
here. The medicine is packed in caskets, and put
up in different grades and forms, to meet all
classes of cases, each casket containing two months’
treatment (and under this time no case can be per-
manently cured by aDy medicine in the world)
Caskets are sent to patients free of charge on re-
ceipt of price, which is £2, securely sealed from
observation, with full directions as to treatment,
i and in every case with the distinct understanding,
that where a permanent benefit is not derived the
money will be cheerfully refunded. In ordering,
patients are requested to give a full and distinct
description of all their symptoms, so that we can
be sure of sending the proper remedy. All letters
are sacredly confidential, and all orders should be
sent by Post Office Order, registered letter, or
bank draft, adireseed to
MANAGER LONDON MEDICAL COMPANY,
Excelsior Chambers,
13 Elizabeth-street,
Melbourne.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
22 & 24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
FLEMINGS
RELIABLE
FIRST GRADE,
STYLE,
QUALITY,
and
FINISH.
USED by ALL the
leading Citizens.
NOT HOW CHEAP,
BUT HOW GOOD!
i
FLEMING’S
WAGGONS
and
Harness
[Specially Imported
to suit
colonial
REQUIR SMENTS
WAGGONS,
wiihSide Springs,
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
W AtGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Call and Inspect
MALTINE.
MALTED BARLEY, WHEAT AND OATS.
The only Extract of Malt containing these three cereals.
One Bottle of Maltine is equal (in digestive power) to from 3 to 5 bottles
of any extract of Malt in the Market.
Digestive value 30 times its own weight.
“ Wheat and Oats are especially rich in muscular and fat producing
elemen ts. —Liebeg. ’ ’
Maltine will increase both the weight a*nd flesh in most persons of thin habit.
Highly recommended for delicate females, weak and debilitated
children and infants, and for mothers whilst nursing.
Is very palatable and will be readily taken by the youngest child.
Maltine is invaluable in cases of Consumption, Wasting Diseases, Nervous
Debility, &c., Indigestion, Constipation, and convalescence from Illness.
Prescribed and Recommended by all the leading Physicians and used in the largest
Hospitals. Analysed and approved by the most prominent Chemists of Europe.
Maltine with Pepsine and Pancreatine is the best remedy known
for Dyspepsia, Cholera Infantum, and all diseases resulting from imperfect
digestion. There are fewcases that will not readily yield to this preparation.
Maltine with Hypophosphites is most valuable in cases of Consump-
tion, Rickets, Softening of the Bones, and Neuralgia.
Malto Yerbine is the most effective remedy for Bronchitis, Coughs,
Colds, and difficult Expectoration.
Maltine with Cod Liver Oil, an agreeable and effective mode of adminis-
tering Cod Liver Oil.
Maltine with Iron and Quinine, or Iron, Quinine and Strych-
nine a most powerful and nutritive tonic for General Debility, &c.
Maltine with Phosphorus Compound is especially adapted for all
overworked brains and those of sedentary habits, suffering from General
Lassitude.
Maltine with Alteratives is a remedy of the highest value in all depraved
conditions of the blood, Scrofula, &o.
SOLO BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIMITED, LONDON.
(CONCENTRATED BEEF, WHEAT, AND MILK).
Containing 95 per cent. oi nutritious matter. There is nothing to equal
it as a flesh-former, fat and bone producer. Pleasant in odour
andtaste to the most delicate persons.
It is invaluable in cases of Convalescence from all diseases, Pulmonary
affections, Fevers, Pneumonia, Weak Digestion, Gastritis, and all
Stomach Ailments, Dyspepsia, Diarrhoea, Dysentery and all Intestinal
Diseases, Phthisis, Cholera Infantum, Marasmus, Vomiting in Pregnancy,
Sea Sickness, Diabetes, Excessive use of Alcoholic Stimulants, and in
debility resulting from any .cause.
Also a valuable adjunct in voyages and camp life. It will build up the system
after severe prostration.
It contains all of the valuable constituents of Beef. Wheat) and Milk.
Being in the form of a dry powder it will keep in any climate.
A few spoonfuls equal to a hearty meal, and being partially digested,
makes but little demand upon the digestive powers.
It possesses 60 times more nutritive substance than Beef Tea. Mutton
or Chicken Broth made in the ordinary manner.
One ounce of Beef Peptonoids contains more nourishment than five
pints of beef tea prepared from eighty ounces of beef.
It contains ten times more nutritive matter than Liebig’s Extract of Beef,
or similar productions.
Prescribed and recommended by all leading Physicians, and used in the
largest hospitals. Analysed and approved by the most eminent chemists in Europe.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
TEE MALTINE MANUFACTURING CO., LIM., LONDON.
mo ACTORS, ACTRESSES, MANAGERS, &o.
THE THEATRICAL NEWSPAPER
BUREAU.
All the chief London Theatrical Papers on sale,
including •’Stage,” “Theatre.” “Topical Times,”
“Dramatic Review,” “Bat,” &c., at moderate
prices. Postage free to any address in Australia.
Write to Manager,
10 IMPERIAL CHAMBERS,
Bank Place, Collins-street, Melbourne.
Lynch family bellringers
Manager Harry Lynch.
WESTERN TOUR, commenced Wednesday, 24th
February, will include Liverpool, Penrith. Lith-
gow, Bathurst, Blayney, Orange, Dubbo, Welling-
ton, Mudgee, Cowra, Carcoar, Parkes, Forbes,
Grenfell, Young, Gundagai, Adelong, Wagva,
Junee, Yass, Cootamundra, Crookwell, &c., &c.
Prices as usual.
JAMES SMITH,)
H. K. BA-RNEM
Advance
Agents.
IN THE PRES \
CROWN LANDS AND LABOUR.
THE POLICY OF THE NEXT LAND BILL.
ALIENATION, THE CORSE of the COUNTRY.
A Pamphlet on the Land Question,
BY
DAVID M MYER?, B.A.
To he had of all leading booksellers.
Price Sixpence,
FOUVB SYDNiY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HOESE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION triven every day in Boxing
Gymnastics, Wrestling', Fencing, Sc c. for
terms, &c., spply to
H. M. CANS DELL,
Manager and Instructor.
CHAMPION MEETING, iB6O.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 37th.
THURSDAY, MARCH 4th.
SATURDAY, MARCH 6th.
HOLIDAY EXCURSION FARES.
This will be the MOST IMPORTANT MEETING
ever yet held on the Flemitgton Course. The
Entries are larger than ever.
H. BYRON MOORE.
Sec. V.B-C.
N
EKYOITS and DEBILITATED SOFF*KB* S
—A nnd cal treatise, sbowiDg how y cU Jpiili
be cured without consulting a medics 1 man. n
valuable recipe s for purifying the blood, ino \ c „
skin diseases, uriDal affections, indigestion. « '
&c. Sent, post free for six penny etamps- AQO
Medico, P. 0,, Box 166, Sydney.


CORRESPONDECE
ICorretpondents who oive neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munication t noticed .1
“0. Paton As you say, the Jews almost
always dress their little boys in sailor suits. That
ia to discourage them from becoming sailors when
they grow up. However, very little discourage-
ment usually appears necessary...."M. Jack-
son”: If you expectorate freely (or at all) while
smoking, leave off using tobacco. The abnormal
activity of the salivary glands is the precursor of
retching, which, in its turn, precedes vomiting —
“Elizabeth Bay”: Parliament will very likely
have a deal to say concerning Colonel Spalding,...
“Indignant” writes : "Is it ttue that the S.A.
authorities offered the Government two batteries
of Hallelujah Lasses to accompany the Contingent
to the Soudan, on condition that the Biloela girls
should be permitted to do the garrison service in
the meantime ?”—Yes ;it is quite true “D.C.”:
Letter an I paper equally acceptable
It may have been a strange affair, but not
half so straDge as the metre of your
V erse “ Dyspepsium ”: If you always write
that way when you are ill, we hope you
Will get ’em again as soon as possible
"R.P.”: Policemen wear gloves because they
have to handle larrikins “A. Muston”: The
point is that an 11 independent ” man is often sc-
called because he is dependent on his rich wife
“ C.C.” (Brisbane): It was held over for illustra-
tion...." Coach ”: No, “PoetcTnascitur non fit"
does not mean " the poet creates but does not
make.” The literal translation is " a poet is not
fit to be born.” It was written by a man who had
read something of Douglas B. V. X. Y. Z. Bladen's.
..." Jac-Kass ”: We don't whether you are seven,
as you say, or 17. Your conceit points to the greater
age, your humour to the more infantile period....
“H.0.D.”: Overlooked last issue... "Cuthbert”:
Thanks for the yarn, anyhow "Fagia”:
Funny and forcible but we musn’t
“ j.S.”(Armidale): Thanks—“ T. 8.”: The reason,
dew sir, why we spell His Excellency's name with
one "r” is that we thus save an “ r.” By the way,
how can you spell “ Smith ” with two " r's ?” If
you say any more we’ll rpell Carington phoaeti-
cally with a preliminary "K.”... "L.S J.”: The
name of "Dr.” Tucker does not appear on the
N.S.W. Medical List “A. Jamieson”: Good
looks do not a racehoise make "Abigail’s
Friend”: Your Parliamentary platform is admir-
able. But you might just as well go to the coun.
try with a proposal that no one should be “ run
in” for anything; that all policemen executing
their duty should be hit in the eye; that all
police stations should be granted spirit licenses,
and that the Supreme Court judges should be
sent to gaol during the vacation.. .“ J.J.”: N 0....
“Wager”: The amount of the French National
Debt now exceeds that of Eogland by several
million pounds sterling —“ Charles Marks”:
Nonsense. The opinion of the average doctor on
such a subject isn't worth a cent. No doctor
can with certainty pronounce as to the sanity
of a criminal. For example: A youth was con-
victed in Tasmania a year or two ago of murder
committed in a fit of rage. The doctors said
he was sane, and he was executed accordingly
At the post mortem it was found that the criminal’s
skull-cap was almost perforated by one of the
mott deadly and widespread diseases known to
humanity. Not a word about this has ever
appeared in the papers. When you super-add the
fact that there can often be seen, even under the
microscope, no indication whatever of disease in
the brain of a man who, during his lifetime, had
for many years undoubtedly been insane, what can
one think of the value of doctors’ evidence as to
sanity in the case of a man sentenced to death?....
“ Citizen Soldier ”: The fact of the officer referred
to having paid you £5 only for the article men-
tioned, and afterwards charged the Government
£lO, is no doubt a matter which should be
thoroughly exposed, but as N.S.W. judicial affairs
stand at present, no one, except young Vander-
bilt, could afford to do the ftate that service.
Beaumarchais evidently had our lovely libel laws
in his mind’s eye when he made the censor in the
“ Marriage of Figaro ” say—" Provided you do not
speak in your writings either of the Government,
of religion, of politics, of office-holders, of respect,
able corporations, of the opera, of the other
theatres, or of anybody who is connected with
anything, you can print freely everything—
under the inspection of two or three censors....
"Cricketer”: Your suggestion that if Boyle be
selected as the fourteenth man in the cricket
team which is going to England, it will be a
Boyle over,” is beneath contempt. Besides, you
don't know what you are talking about.. .
"Tyro”: Yes. When you ask if when sending
contributions to us you should write only on one
side of tlia paper. You can if you please. It is ail
he same to the dustman "Xanthos”: What is
°ur opinion of your poem ? Well, to be candid,
af ter. reading it we regretted having written
against solitary confinement. You may guess what
°ur opinion is from this "Curious”: Yes. An
entry of “ Chinamen’s B mes ”„is a common thing
jn the Custom-house, though there is no duty on
em. We think this is a mistake. Import duties
are charged upon Chinamen, then why not export
Upon their remains? We suggest this as a
source of income to the new Treasurer
Pmin Bill ”; Yes. There will shortly be a Minis-
er of War— the Soudan donkey. He does know
otnething about war, anyhow " One who means
: Bjlff fellow I sweet Ancient Pistol I So one
ft y when you are in town you will call upon us
Bee what we mean by sneering in the way we
°' df you are a single man, come If not, stay
J 6r 3youara. Wc are truculent enough, but we
* ye 8-U left soup scrupl.s against making
widows and orphanf. Get your head shaved
“ N.G.” (Etheridge Itiver, N.Q.): We have read
your manuscript, and have been hiccuping ever
since. You are evidently under the impression
that this paper is published in a brewery, and that
the editorial office is a vat “Paolo Macari”:
Thanks. Will consider “A.J.S.”: We don’t
see why Mr. H. E. Cohen should be formally
allowed to retain the title of Honorable within
the colony of N.S.W. 1 Henry, so far as we have
heard, has always been regarded as perfectly
straightforward in all his business transactions...
“A.J.S.”: We are quite sure it would “take”—
take us to the Supreme Court to be legally burgled
of about £lO.OOO “Cuthbert Greer,” “X.Y.,”
and several others: Will read for next week
“Styx”: Sub Judiee “Vox”: Will work it up.
THIS WICKED WORLD.
When a King of Spain dies some one calls
in his ear three times. On the back-blocks, when
an editor dies, they don’t call in his ear, they just
uncork a bottle of whisky in the rcotn. If he
can’t sit up then, they borrow a bullock-dray and
trundle him out to the cemetery straight A
newly-arrived Britisher lately put up at a Woolloo-
mooloo hash-foundry, and on the second day of
his sojourn complained to the landlady that there
was a black hair in the butter. “ Well, really Mr.
De Montagu,” she replied soothingly, “ I am
sorry yonr laste does not incline to the brunette,
but I don’t see that I should keep a light-
haired cook just to suit your fancy.” Her
difficulty was that Chinamen do not usually
affect the blonde style of beauty “What
is the origin of motion ?” asks a N.S.W.
back-blocks illuminator. As far as our observa-
tion goes, we think that the words, “Come and
have a drink,” are the chief origin of motion up
there.. .We read that the income of the Salvation
Army in South Australia last year amounted to
We read it, but don't believe it Pro-
bable S.A. wheat yield this year, 5,161,668 bushels.
Hearses ana nersesi
A certain Fydney under-
taker is connected with the
turf in two ways-under
and over. He buries dead
men and he keeps about 10
racehorses, ore of which a
little while since not un-
naturally ran a “dead heat” with a
moke beloDgirg to a well-known and
very successful patron of the turf, who,
upon being ohallerged to run off the
heat for £lOOO, declined the proffered
honour. We are deeply interested at
present in speculating whether or not
the decayed Rosinantes of this sporting
undertaker are, when they have gone
through their scarlet and silk days,
blacked up and started upon a career
of crape and weepers in the shafts of
hearses. If so, how mournful must be
their reflections and how bitter their
envy as they seethe ’bus horses start for
Randwick upon Cup Day! And does
the undertaker’s jockey, when he has
passed his prime and grown too fat to
be amenable to Turkish baths and stable-
yard sweats, dtff the radiant colours which concealed from the public eye the death’s head
and cross-bones of his festive master, and spend the rest of his earthly pilgrimage pulling a
stipendiarily sorrowful visage upon a hearse, and meditating upon the vanity of all things
mundane ?
Estimated available surplus, 36,000 tons, or 283,000
tons less than last year. ...Five hundred pounds*
worth of railway sleepers, the property of Fish-
burn and Morton, contractors, were burned mali-
ciously between Young and Cowra. A reward is
offered and “ police and trackers are out.” They
mostly are—a long way out Melbourne tram
cables are wearing out very fast. Friction over
the rough pulley wheels is the cause. The wheels
are to be changed The Newcastle Herald airily
calls attention to a slight error it committed in a
par. in the preceding issue. " For abolished,” says
the editor, smiling, “ please read established.”
“ Rien que ga!’ —Jurors confined pending the
conclusion of murder oases in Victoria are allowed
a certain amount of liquor. Ten out of twelve
jurors at a reoent trial were teetotallers. Did the
other two whack the whole puncheon ?
• • »
A weary world—at the club : De Jones
yawns and stretches himsGlf. Van Brown: "Tired,
dear boy?” De Jones :“ Aw—beastly,” Van
B : “Up late, eh?” De J.: “ Naw. Been think-
ing.” It appears to he reckoned a crime in
England to persist in trying to serve lhe Queen.
William Toole, a young man from Hull, was
handed over to the Windsor police for returning
to Windsor, and repeating an application for em-
ployment “General” Booth has announced
that he “ wants £30,000 this year.” In the Leip-
sic Journal a shoemaker, Julinck, announces
the birth of his (and wife's) 39th child ‘’Some-
thing in theleather," prooably... According to the
latest judicial and criminal statistics the numteruf
suicides among Irishmen is fewer than among
Scotchmen or Englishmen. What fools the Irish
would be to hurry out of a world in which there
is s > much whisky ! A learned c mnsel, address-
ing a jury for his client, charged with stealing,
said sne was a kleptomani >c. “Of course,
your Honor knows what that is-a form of men
tal disease.” " Oh, yes,” said the Judge,
“ and I am sent down here to cure it.”
It is said that the young Empress of Cnina is very
modern and European in her ideas, astonLhlng
the natives by adopting thB English style, and also
by fortifying her body by muscular exercises.
Boxing is one of the arts of her Majesty's preii
lection A vegetarian society is to be formed in
Melbourne. To use up their surplus cabbages, we
presume Jews take very much interest in
everything but fighting. And yet Prince Alex-
a- de‘r, of Bulgaria, has in bis army a battalion <>f
500 Hebrews.. .In the British ermv, for re«tlv
17,5.0 avUiy SvkUere, then-a-p i*bout 10.300
horses—George Willoughby Hemans, son of Mrs.
Hemane, the poetess, died in December last, in
London, aged 72. It was a childish question of
Mr. George Hemans. which gave birth to the lines,
“The Better Land.” Mr. Hemans had survived
his mother just half a century The Pope has
converted all his Christmas presents for some years
past into money, and given the proceeds, amount-
ing to half a million francs, to the Propaganda—
Edmund Yates, of the World, has entirely lost the
sight of the left eye, and although the right eye,
per contra, has better vision than ever, it is feared
that the strain upon it may eventually impair that
also—A Canadian alderman has justflusd apaper
for publishing a speech which he did not deliver.
If a Sydney paper printed some of the speeches
which local aldermen do deliver, the Government
would prosecute the proprietors for obscenity —
“ I guess, ma,” said young Bobby, at the breakfast
table, “that Mr. Eeatherly finds it rather ex-
pensive calling on Clara.” “What do you mean
by that, young man ?” interposed his sister, with
asperity. “I don’t mean nothing by it,” replied
Bobby, doggedly ; only I heard him tell you, in
the hall last night, that every time he called on
you he broke the crystal of his watch.” The dig-
nity of a Sovereign isn’t worth £1 sterling. The
Queen’s bounty, reduced to £2, has been for-
warded to a woman at Peterborough for bringing
three children into the world at a birth. They all
died ; hence the modification of Her Majesty’s
gratification, and the reduction of £l. This will
impress upon ultra-patriotic females the wis-
dom of using every endeavour to keep
life in their offspring, at any rate till
they have clutched the three golden sovereigns
According to latest returns there are but com-
paratively few genuine Scotchmen now in the
British army. It would seem, indeed, that pretty
near all the Highlanders that are not required for
the tobacconnists’shop3, are monopolised for the
personal service ef Her Majesty “Bless me I”
be said, looking at the clock, it’s after 11. How
time flies! I had no idea it was so late.” “It’s
better late than never,” she said, hiding a yawn...
This is an American description of our gay and
festive kangaroo:—An unconventional kind of
animal which in shape is farther than any other
from being the square of its base. It is assisted in
jumping by its tail (which makes very good soup)
and when it has happened to alight on the sur-
prised Australian it is usually observable that his
skin is unbuttoned from the neck down-
ward, and he carries his bowels in his arms
“ The Life and Letters of John Brown ” are to be
published by Sampson Low—not Queen Victoria’s
John Brown, but the “ Liberator of Kansas and
the Martyr of Virginia.” People were surprised
to hear that among the presents to Mr. Gladstone
on his birthday was a bust of Lord Beaoonsfield,
given by Mr. Herbert Gladstone.. Lord Brougham,
who has just passed away at the age of 90 odd. is
not the first nonagenarian of his family. His
elder brother, Henry, the vers-tile Lord Chan-
cellor, was just 90 when he died; their mother
completed her 90th year, and eDjoyed all her
faculties to the last It is not often that three
members of odb family live jointly 270 years
Mr. Henry W, Lucy, the novelist, is now editor of
tue London Daily News The Birmingham
police have found that the “non-alcoholic and
unfermented” wines drunk by the local teeto-
tallers contain 17 per cent, alcohol A lady ad-
vertises in a London paper:—" Wanted a husband
at once, for a daughter of Champion Sooty; he
must be pfitfe-bred and in London. Terms; a
puppy.” Amm named Maxwell was arrested
in Auckland, N.Z., for murdering a companion to
recover the amount for which he was insured.
They managed that sort of racket better in South
Australia a few yea; s ago. When they insured a
risk he was generally on the high road to HeaveD,
and occasionally in the excitement of the moment
they insured a stiff ’un. But they got bowled out
at length.
Now, may the Fates preserve us from ever
being mixed up in a murder case. It was the mis-
fortune of one Frank Howarth to be employed as
man-servant in the establishment of Mr. Beach,
farmer, of Pettavel (Vic) B9ach was shot dead
one night under mysterious circumstances. Both
Mrs. Beach and the man Howarth were put on
their trial for the “ Pettavel tragedy,” but were
discharged. There was in fact, not sufficient
evidence to connect them with the crime. After
the trial Howarth married and settled down in
the neighbourhood of Pettavel, while Mrs. Beach
lived on quietly in the old house. The crime was
well-nigh forgotten by the public, when there
erme a new and energetic Superintendent of
Police to Geelong, who conceived the idea of
covering himself with glory by re-arresting
Howarth and Mrs. Beach on the old charge.
He arrested those two country people in the
dead of night. All hours of the day were
at the policeman's disposal, but he preferred
taking the "prisoners” from their beds. The
magistrates before whom this second charge was
made discharged the suspects without waiting to
hear their defence. Howarth naturally enough
brought an action against of the
law. Heaven knows why—his suit was unsuccess-
ful. And now the miserable wretch is to stand
one more trial. For perjury. He swore he was
handcuffed after he was taken from his bed, and
he wasn't handcuffed.
II asked ior to driuk gall Wolfe ts Schnapps.
Oriental Gold.
Great Sacrifice!
Immense Reduction!
THB
ORIENTAL GOLD GO.
BEG to draw attention to the REDUCED
PRICES of their
IMceit Jtnlltry!
OBSERVE PRICE LIST BELOW.
Ladies’ Handsome Orienta Gold Alberts, 10s, 15s,
17s 6d, and 20s each
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 4s and 5s per pair
Ladies’ Choice Neoklets, 5s each
Ladies’ Choice Necklets, best American Plate, 209
each
Ladies’ Elegant Bangles, 4s, 6s, and 10s per pair
Choice Lockets, 5s each
Handsome Gem Rings, 4s and 8s 6d each
Wedding and Keeper Rings, in Solid Gold, 7s fid
each
Ladies’ Handsome Lookets, 10s each
Ladies’ Elegant Crosses, 4s, ss, and fis each
Ladies’ Brooch and Earring Sets, from 5s to 16s
Thimbles, warranted Sterling Silver, 3s 6d eaGh
Gents’ O. G. Watches, Hunting, Open-Faced
Crystal Glass, and patent Keyless, 30s each (
warranted 3 years
Ladies’ (same as above,)
ttW~ These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses .. .. .. .. £4 0 0
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
jewelled, and compensation balance .. 15 0 0
Rotherham’s celebrated English Patent
Levers .. £4 10 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance ..£5OO
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses.. .. £2 15 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance.. .. £4 15 0
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with each watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph, £5 0
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
grade £6 0 0
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
full jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket .. £8 10 0
We import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected—about 35 per oent.
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £i> watches would not
cost less than £8 to £lO.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 4s
each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Rings, half round buckle
flat broad buckle, engraved, good luck rings
2s fid each.
Gent’s richly chased engraved and plain Solitaire
and Link Suites, 3s, 4s, ss, and fis fid per set.
Same as above, only half sets, Is fid, 2s, and 3s per
set.
Best American Patent Spring Solitaire Suites,
5s per set.
Gent's elegant Seals, 4s each.
Gent’s Elegant Compasses, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alberts, fis each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold handsome Scarf Pins, Is,
fid, 2s, 2s fid, 3s, 3s fid, 4s, 4s fid, ss, and 5s fid eao
Very best American Pencil Cases, 2s fid each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Match Boxes, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Sovereign Purses, 4s each.
Richly engraved Bracelets, fis each.
Handsome Bracelets, beautifully jewelled, Bs, 10a,
13s, and 14s each.
Broooches, Brooches, Brooches, Is fid, 2s, 2s 61, 3s,
3S fid, 4s, 4s fid, ss, 5s fid, fis, 6s fid, 7S, 7s fid, Bs, 8s
fid, 9s, 9s fid, and 10s each.
PLEASE NOTE.
All goods will be sent post free, with the excep-
tion of the watches, orders for which must be ac-
companied with an extra amount of two and six-
pence to defray postage expenses. Bend in your
orders early, as the goods must be sold, and no one
should miss this chance of procuring the beautifu 1
gems at less than cost price.
Noth thb Address :
The Oriental Gold Co.,
474 George Street,
OPPOSITE THE MARKETS,


PEPPER AND SALT.
Listen to some of the humour of “Angles,”
of the Australasian. He is writing of the late
riots:—“ Regent street sacked, the club windows
smashed, and innocent passengers assailed because
they rode in carriages are contingencies which
even the red-hot Radical of Australia would not
regard with satisfaction. (Why the mischief was
|/«
/"HE Of-^ H or uvCLt 7pm.
A< fhtf /
VE A VtKl Ly
UNCLE
Tom
the Bank of England spared ?) . . . Of course,
Mr. Gladstone, with his hatchet, was in the thick
of the riot, and, doubtless, picked the pockets of
Lord Salisbury.” From the very largo amount of
this distressing kind of “copy ” that sees print an-
nually there must certainly be a demand for it«
Mr. F. M. Darley, Q.C. professed a partiality for
this sort of literature, considering it to be “ whole-
some fun—an expression that is now historic. The
learned gentleman did not apparently take time
to consider that all fun must be wholesome fun;
since did a joke become unwholesome there
would at once cease to be any “ fun ” in it. To |
return, however, to “ Angles,” he had the
reputation once of being able to set the table
in a roar. His little bush yarns “took well,” let
us tell you, all ending, as they did, in italicised
lines, such as "with the aid of his shoe he had been
| trying half the morning to ram his big toe through
a five shilling-piece.’’ That made “him” late for
the wedding, and told of a practical joke. There
is not, however, a joke of any kind in
now; ” but faeetious correspondents occasionally
ring in on him, as having “taken place at the
station,” a number of pastoral fossils which he
gravely reproduces in the Australasian. Truth
copied one of these not long ago, as a specimen
of the humour peculiar to the Australian colonies,
but the paper was hardly distributed before the
Thespian Tips.—Stage Glimpses in Sydney.
item was claimed by a man up North—probably a
descendant of Ham. The fact is we are tired of
f 'Angles ’ and his snug little column. He is a good
fellow, and his “ Talk on Change ” is a good thing*
But one may have too much of a good thing.
Suppose he alter the titte to “ Talk Unchanged.”
* * *
There, you see! After it’s all over, who is
the only party that has a splendid suggestion
ready as to how to employ the whole of the N.S.W.
“ patriotic ” fund ? We are I You see, the meet-
ings are all played out now. When they were iu
their prime, why it took ten or twelve old pot-
terers, headed by “ Umbrella Smith,” to vote a
heart-broken aunt a ten-pound lolly-shop. A
young girl said one day that she had just walked
in from her brother’s grave. This touched a com-
mittee-man, and he got one of his brethren to
move that the applicant be granted 12a. 6d. She
dropped a tear of gratitude on the ohange, and
then went back to the boys who were holding a
little “school” in Mungo’s alley It was funny,
too, on another day, to see a bloated warrior take
delivery of a soda-water machine, and, slipping
send his head right through the whole concern.'
By about the time; “Cupid” said " Tra-la-la-100
to the fund, things were unsettled. For instance
when on private was started with #2O and a
Dutch clock there were murmurs; it being whis.
pered about that the lucky warrior was the
favourite nephew of a committee-man’s cook.
Well, there you are I The fund being now in »
moribund condition as regards the KhakeeS
“What should now be done with it?” This, f
should be employed to finish the rebuilding Sydney
hospital I A work that of excellence and charity
Oh, yes ; we will shake hands with you wi
pleasure, but we are not taking anything J u
now.


MORE MEDALS, OR, GLORY V. GRUB.
A tale I tell, a song I sing, of Solon Ctcsar Pluck,
Whose gorgeous dreams but travestied his cruel
daily luck ;
pursued by fate, (preyed ion by care, h’s was a
mournful lot,
Cursed were his basket and hia store, his pannikin
and pot.
50 work found he, none would employ this poor
unhappy lad,
Whose boots and hat were grinning at the ragged
clothes he had:
Who lived on scraps he pilfered from the swill
cans of the pubs,
Despite the filthy taste and smell, and scullions’
jeering snubs.
If dry o’erhead and underfoot, within the drear
Dom'ain
He had a fav’rita sleeping place; if damp or
threat’ning rain,
Some building going up he sought, where in
the shaving shed,
From dark till dawn he slumbered on, of all his
troubles rid.
And so the days rolled on until the clarion of, war
Was sounded by Plain Bill, who then was autocrat
and Czar,
The heart of Solon Cesar Pluck so swelled within
his breast,
It burst the only button off which bound him in
his vest.
Enlisted then, well-fed, his dreams were now of
high martial fame,
Of Arab chiefs beheaded, of Arab [steeds made
tame,
Of lovely ladies’ lustrous eyes, which beamed
through gauzy veils,
And looked with favour unconcealed on Pluck of
New South Wales.
Alas 1 those dreams were vain, for he, instead of
shedding gore,
With pick and shovel daily up the Nubian desert
tore ;
Instead of captivating hearts, he chased high-
smelling goats,
And never saw a desert steed worth feeding
upon cats.
h
) \\ /V"" " #pr
ALLCDjjLfiCK
/Jet 3/
I]aJlosack. «
J A!auleJ)£uick-
/ /7aU) <£l UE ,
Returning home with heart elate, he cried, “No
laurels twine
My brows; no scalp-lock, trophy, nor Soudan goat
is mine,
ut sill my bravery was great, I did not lack the
will
Some easy billet will, I know, be found me by
Plain Bill I”.
He landed in the rain, took ill, soon all his pay wa3
spent,
Nor did the “ Patriotic” Fund disburse him one red
cent;
And now, enfeebled by disease, he no employment
found,
No first-floor lodgings his, they still were on the
oold, cold ground.
Bat then a tale cheered his poor heart, of medals
coming out,
He strained his feeble lungs to give what proved
his final shout;
“A medal mine, of gold!” he cried, “I’ll quickly
put it in
The charge of ‘ Mo,’ my uncle, for I sadly want
some tin.
“I’ll have a feed, a long, deep drink, once morel 11
sleep in bed;
I’ll have a bath, a shave, I’ll paint the blooming
city red ;
Once more I’ll walk well-dressed and clean, the
busy haunts of men,
My bad luck gone, I’m sure to get a decent billet
then.”
The loDged-for day arrives, and now to where the
“ Guvnor ” stands,
Limps slowly one, whose rags are held together
with his bands ;
His hollow cheeks and sunken eyes, each fleshlcss,
bony limb,
Bear evidence Sham “ loyalty ” has been the death
of him.
The medal his, he falters, his white cheeks flush,
then pale,
Fades out the joy-glint trim his eyes, his lips emit
a wail;
“This medal mine,” he stammers out, “ this paltry
thing of lead,
‘I can't pop this, for me no food no clothes, no
drinks, no bed 1”
He falling back expired, and thus was cut off
Private Pluck,
Who longed to be a hero, but had most infernal
luck.
Who, fooled, betrayed and moneyless, cried long
and loud for bread,
But bread was dear, and so he got a medal in its
stead.
* * *
Journalism in Melbourne is to some people
nearly as lucrative as stevedoring. Three members
of the new Victorian Ministry have been writers
for the Age— viz., Mr. Deakin, Chief Secretary
and Minister of Water Supply; Professor Pear-
son, Minister of Education; Mr. Dow, Minister
of Lands and Agriculture. In addition to
these are about a dozen journalistic candi-
dates for M.L.A -ship, most of whom seem
to have a good ohance of being elected. With
such a galaxy of talent as this a Parliamentary
organ might be started to supply a long-felt want
—the want of members to have their speeches
reported in full—each member to write out his
own oration with whatever comments he chose to
make. We should then, probably, be gladdened by
reading something like this:—" You might have
heard a pin drop when that second Pitt the younger,
the ever-eloquent Chief Secretary, rose to, &c.:’
" Profound silence fell upon the House when the
quick-witted and able Attorney-General got up in
his place to, &c.:’ “ The House was hushed. There
was a pause of delighted expectancy. Then sil-
very-soft as the notes of a lover’s lute in lands of
old romance, the clear, sweet accents of a deli-
cately-modulated voioe thrilled through the
charmed Assembly. It was the voice of that bril-
liant and polished scholar, the Minister of Educa-
tion, &o.” ‘‘But what is this we hear? Whose
voice is it that; peals through the building and
wakes the solemn echoes? Whose but that of the
genial and much-travelled Minister of Lands and
Agriculture—gifted alike to use the flowing pen
and voice the flowing phrase-the true and original
writer of the [article on the Great Sharon Case,
none others genuine, &c.” We do wish they would
adopt lour suggestion. If they do we are free to
maintain they willjproduce the funniest paper in
the world.
* * *
The following gay and airy advertisement
appeared in the Melbourne Age a short time ago :
“I, Thomas Clinch, will not be responsible for my
debts.—Thomas Clinch.” There it is, short and
sweet. There is no beating about the bush with
Mr. Clinch. He goes straight to the point and in
ten words wipes out all his obligations to the
human race and starts once more a free man able
to “look the whole world in the face” quite as
well as, and we daresay a good deal better than,
the Village B'aoksmith. Mr. Clinch, your hand!
we admire you. Would we could imitate you.
But, alas! Conscience make cowards of a small
minority of us, and, as yet, we belong to that
Ignoble few. We do not despair, however, of being
able to break with them one of these days and
bask In the balmy atmosphere of irresponsibility
whioh surrounds you. Some day we may make a
present of our conscience to a member of Parlia-
ment. A conscience of any kind—even ours—
wifi be a curiosity to him. Its workings will be a
source of as much unfailing wonder to him as
those of a watch are said to be to the untutored
savage. In the meantime, here are four lines for
you, Mr. Clinch.—
Their debts to pay while others pinch,
From yours you are a festive flincher;
Your creditors are settled, Clinch,
For you have given them a clincher.
T' is was pretty straight, and all in a
whisper, as the eloquent and learned member was
about to depart. “ I do not really think, my lord,
it wouli be advisable to further extend the radius
of your affability’s sunshine—” “ You don’t, eh ?”
said Lord CaringtoD, pulling his moustache. “I
do not, my lord! These people—oh, capital people
—capital!— are just the least bit impressionable.
You cannot begin drawing In the horns of courtesy
too soon. If not, your Excellency will live to see
the Royal Guest ushered In by John Davies and
Maohowlem, M.L.A., on the dais, with a comb in
one hand and a quart of lavender water in the
other, ready for any emergency.
M , *
“From personal observation,” remarked
Lord Carington, at Sydney Hospital meeting, “ he
was able to testify to the kind and skilful treat-
ment of the nurses.” There is something touch-
in this kindly bid to please us, and we are really
grateful, but,‘[sentimentality apart, we ask what
ho could have personally observed in the treat-
ment of the nurses, when, on his entrance to a
ward, on the day he skipped through the place,
those unfortunate young women were ranged up,
near to the door, like soldiers, and were kept at
’tention till his Excellency had departed. If he
had come, in disguise, a few minutes before (there
would be some difficulty, we apprehend, in dis-
guising his Excellency’s legs) the noble lord might
possibly have seen something. For, perhaps, up
to the last minute the nurses were hard at it tying
up refractory jaws with invisible tape, end
muffling death-rattles. It is very pleasant. To
finish up the par. we have only to assure Lord
Carington that since he has gained the hearts of
the people (and ours), an ordinary knife witl do.
He need not mind, in future, laying on the “jam ”
with a paling.
* * *
“Her Majesty the Queen has subscribed
£5OO to the relief of the unemployed in London.”
* * a
“ Now, boys,” said Lord Carington, sum-
moning his four aides about him, on receipt of Sir
John Robertson’s communication, “ what do you
think about the dissolution ? ” The four aides-de-
camp turned eight reproachful eyes upon their
chief, and a long silence was broken by Lord
Bertie saying, hysterically: “We thought you
knew us better! ‘ Think,’ indeed.” And the ill-
used quatrain filed off into the bungalow; but
they have received such a shock that it was as
much as they could do (they said) to open the
side-board.
The world is going round, and no mistake.
Hero’s the Peak Downs Telegram (N.Q.) incor-
porating itself with the Copperfield Miner;
and, now if you please, they have “ Nick-nacks,”
by Peter Palings, who takes for his motto, “ I am
the very pink of courtesy,” and immediately
plunges into the relation of a story, of which the
following is an extract:—‘“l say, who the D —l
is there?’ ‘lam.’ ‘Who the h 1 are you?’
‘My name is (the C.T. mentioned his name).’ ‘Do
you know that's my room.’ ‘ls it’(calmly). ‘lf
you will not come out I will pull you out.’ ‘ Come
and try it.’ ‘Will you open the d—d door?’
‘ No.’ ‘ I’ll pull your d 1 no3e when T get in,’ ”
&c. At the time we shed the refulgent light of our
genius on the Miner there were no “ Nick-nacks”
about it, nor any Peter either, but there [were any
Job’s quantity of palings. We knew the Miner
wouldn’t last long after we left, and are glad it
didn’t. A copy of that journal, edited by our
successor, came into our hands in Brisbane, and —
well, it’s not to run the man down—we’d be the
last to—but of all the audacity I Not only a leader
on the “ Burning Political Questions of the Hour,’>
but a war telegram, which was set up in small
ype and squeezed in under an ad. relating to sar-
dines, and which ran—” Information i 3 to hand
that in a battle on the Kloptic plateau, the Grand
Duke Murphy’s Army has been completely routed
by that of Solomon Bosher.”
The passengers of the wrecked steamer
Murray arrived at Sydney by the Rosedale the
other day, and were hearty in health, but melan-
choly in mind. And when they read later that
” Only a portion of the passengers’ luggage has
been recovered,” they merely murmured :—“By
whom, we wonder ?”
“ A woman is a good deal like an accor-
dion,” says a French writer. “You can draw her
out all right, but the music begins when you [try
to shut her up.”
She went to the priest“ Sure, Fay ther,”
she said, “I’m in the court, ana they’ve got two
liars against me, and I’ve only got one. Can ye
find me another ? ”
At the first blush, it would seem as if the
Lithgow Colliery Disaster Relief Committee were
an ass. We read :—" Nearly £lOO had been sub-
scribed, but it was not considered advisable to
publish the names of the aonois until more sub-
scriptions had been received.” Now, if they were
to publish the list, and head it, “ Under the patron-
age of Lord Carington,” the money would roll in.
No, now we come to think, that is not so certain.
It is a collection for charity, not for a “ Patriotic
Fund,” and there are no titles or other glittering
aids to liberality hanging on to it.
Alderman Long became Mayor of Penrith,
N.S.W . the other day. she occasion fetched a lot
of autobiography out of him. Here are a few modest
little bits that the Press should reach out for
without coughing. Mayor Long, after telling his
audience that he is 50 years of age and a native of
the colony, said that “ he awed his education to
the Press of the colony, and considered that great
credit was due to tbeir teachings.” He, no doubt,
slapped his exosnsive bosom at the close of this
period. Then he smiled around, and added: “He had
had many differences with the local Press, but he
hoped that it would prove better and be of more
enlightenment in the future,” First the Press
teacnes Alderman Long. Now Alderman Long
wants to teach the Press. That’s always the way.
Following the example of Mr. Joseph
Zaehnsdoif, who lately bound two Elzevir editions
in human skin, anotner London binder has exe-
cuted an order to encase a copy of Hans Holbien’s
“Dance of Death” in the same ghastly integu-
ment, certainly a very appropriate covering for
this work. These arc not the only instances, how-
ever, in which the casing of the “ human form
divine ” has been utilised. In the library at Mex-
borough House, near Methley, Yorkshire, there
were formerly two books, Sir John Cheek's “ Hurt
of Sedition ” and Braithwait’s “ Areadian Prin-
cess,” both hound in the prepared skin of Mary
Bateman, “the Yorkshire witch,” who was exe-
cuted early in the beginning of this century for
murder, but these were among those which dis-
appeared during the cataloguing of the library
for sale, when one of the iormer Earls of Mex-
borough was in difficulties, Yet another instance,
la Paris a small book was shown by a dealer, who
solemnly avowed it was bound in a portion of the
skin of the notorious Louvet de Couvray, and
which he valued at 1000 francs, and for authentica-
tion of which he produced a long pedigree.
A HEINE OF PLENTY.
Ye unemployed of London town
(Eight hundred thousand strong),
Although ye have of late been “ down,”
Your woes did not last long;
Relief from an undreamt-of source
Comes through a Royal flunkey—
Eureka I we refer, of course,
To Queen Victoria’s “ monkey.”
’Tis nearly half a“ brown” apiece
(A real, right Royal gift);
The cries of outcast London cease,
The clouds of trouble lift,
Ye unemployed, take courage, and,
Of death be no more funky,
For plenty reigns throughout the land—
Thanks to your monarch’s “ monkey.”
At last has the Millennium come
To bless the British Isles—
The voice of each complainer’s dumb—
His frowns are smoothed to smiles;
Those blankets he can now take out
That long lay pledged with “ nunky,”
And all this change is brought about
By Queen Victoria’s “monkey.”
CONCERNING A TYPICAL SYDNEY “IN
MEMORIAM,”
In loving remembrance of William, the
beloved son of , who died suddenly February
—, 1882. Dead, but not forgotten.
Pale death could scarcely find another
So true a son-so fond a brother ;
In all his actions he was kind,
Has left the loved ones all behind.”
After you with the cymbals:
Dear Willie, though we knew you not,
When on this earth you roamed awhile,
We will not have you quite forgot,
We’ll send you up a rhyme, old file.
“Suddint” you died ; we sympathise
Most heartily, old man, with you ;
But now you’re up in Paradise,
We’ll show your death was all a “ do.”
Yes, Willie, much we sympathise ;
You couldn’t stand their rhymes, we know,
So in despair you sought the skies,
Where poets very seldom go,
A proof, Will, that you killed yourself
(You had a calm far-seeing mind),
For when you soared from earthly pelf
You left the poets all behind.
Your plan is one we’re tempted oft
To follow ; but, though steeped in gore
Of pjets, ere we go aloft,
We want to kill a hundred more I
ANOTHER DISAPPOINTMENT.
“It has been resolved to present an ad-
dress and purse of sovereigns to the Dean of
Sydney on the occasion of his departure for
Europe.”
We never thought you’d take it, Dean;
We said you would refuse it Hat;
We cried, “ Gold will his soul demeanl”
As they passed round the holy hat.
You'll say, we thought, “ I know of
A hungered and in miserie—
Poor ragged souls bereft of heso—
They want the money more than me
We thought you, noble Dean, cried—” I
Will shatter one discordant rule ”
And while we thought (this with a sigh)
Oh, Noble Dean, you scooped the pool.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Ta «Atrb ROT AT, Called B ick " p. 8
Gaiety Theatre—” Uncle Tom's Cabin „
Alhambra—Minstrelsy. Olio, and Farce „
Academy op Music.—Minstrelsy „
“Janet Pride” is now the bill at the
Sydney Opera House, and judging from the way
an expectant public rolled up on the first niirbt, it
is a bill which will be amply receipted. O ily a
couple of dozen seats in the circle awaited our
choice on Saturday night, and of these several
were taken by late-comers. “Janet Pride’’was
written by Dion Boucicault, but wo risk a libel
action in making the statement At what period
of his life the drama was concocted, we are not
able to say, but he probably penned it at times —
aay, when going: to the funeral of a friend, or
waiting at the station for a mother-in-law—when
he was unusually depressed, and not quite himselt,
fur it hardly shows his hand in a single lineor char-
acter. Certainly, it was written before he came to
Australia, for the business relating to this part of
the g obe is worked up in a style mat would com-
mend itself to the habitues of a London theatre—
and to them alone.
« * *
Miss Ellen Beaufort gets nearly all the
terragic business. In the pro*ogue she is dis-
covered waiting for her husband, who is painting
the town red with the assistance of a few kinlred
spirits and a bowl of uunch. Her (and his) child is
coiled up in a cr»d e in the room, and being
afflicted with low lever, stands a fair show of
floating away to the delicious by-and-bye if a pre-
scription whicn the doctor writes with oneflourish
of his pencil is not made up and administered that
night. As the husband has collared every stiver
in the house for the purpose of carmiaating the
city, Janet Pride (Mis* Beaufort) does not see how
she is to satisfy the rapacio”B druggist, so she
bundles the babe off to me F iuud ing hospital,
and then falls liteles3 at the feet of her
husband, who is returning from a caie. full
of melody and milk punch. Miss Beaufort s
fall here is a flue piece of work. She grips her
little No 5 hands above her head-pieGe, and then,
with a shriek that has all the tender pathos of the
curlew's lugubrious song and the melancholy of a
dingo’s nocturne, she describes the segment of a
circle which has her little beaters for Its centres
The whole house applauded the feat, and it was
not because they thought that was the conclusion
of the piece either—it was sheer aomiration of her
histrionic gymnastics. Miss Beauiort was worth
watching throughout, especially in the somnam-
bulistic scene. where she wanders in, attired in a
bewitching robe-de-nuit of marvellous construc-
tion; but Janet Pride is a diffioult part to plav,for
the business in the last act—the trial scene-can
hardly be made anything but mock heroic, even
by a Terry or a Bernhardt. Miss Beaufort is a lady
whom nature intended to wear an expansive
smile—her features era specially constructed for
It. Strictly Bpeaking, she is not absolutely op-
pressed with a marvellous beauty, but still she
might be considered beautiful by some persons,
if she were a little otherwise than as sbe is at
present.
» * ■
A large amount of the weight of the piece,
and the heaviest part of it, too, falls upon H. N.
Douglas, the Richard Pride. He is better in this
that) in aDy former role we have seen him take. Ia
the first act, when he tikes the part of a drunken
maD, he Is better than he has ever appeared when
pourtraymg virtue and sobriety (probably he has
attended asuburban municipal council and studied
from life), and although In the prologue he hung
almogt as lovingly o# to the final syllable of his
words as a defeated Treasurer in N.B.W. hangs on
to the dibbs of office, be improved as tbe piece
progressed, until finally he parted with tbe word-
sound as gaily as a politician parts with ail his
principles (if he happens to have any) when he
sees a chance of chipping in with a Coalition
Cabinet, “ Pride goeth nefore a fall.” Richard of
that ilk goes before and alter and ail round a series
of moiai collapses. From his own confession in the
nroiogue we gather that he was a good boy until
he secured a good voice, but as his vocal powers
increased his virtue suffered, and he went from
ginger beer and rectitude to champagne and
robbery, upon which tmbezzlement and for-
gery supervened. (There is a moral in all
this which we must stop right here to
gouge out, —Young man ; Never have a good
voice, it will drag you to Darlinghurst—be like
amateur singers at suburban concern). Bsc»ping
to Francr, Pride collarses a rain, he carouses at *
cald ia a Parisian sere* t (being probably impelled
to this excess by noticing that the stupid shop-
keepers announce their calling in the English
language), and being captured, is sent out to
Australia for a2O years’ stretch. His worst ex-
cesses are committed in the Murrumbidgee dis-
trict, where he constructs a coo-ee out of the com-
bined tones of the raopoke and native bear, grips
his loaded lifle by the muzzle, states how his mare
Kate “ showed tne troopers her forelegs,” when
they chased him, and soliloquises in a part of the
bush which is distinctly sprinkled with the
Parisian snow of a former act. His costume in
this scene is absolutely faultless. He wears heavy
top-boots, dark trousers, and a Salvation Army
shirt,, Tnese garments, with a scariet silk hand-
kerchief, we have always regarded as peculiar to
bushrangers—and members of suburban fire
brigades. In the succeeding scenes. Mr. Douglas
manages to sink his own identity and climb up to
quite a high ridge above tbe level of mediocrity.
* * *
Mr. Burford did strong and consistent
work as Bernard, and his make-up was excellent.
Rodney handled a three-cornered part with more
than accustomed skill, and submitted to the in-
sertion of a bowie-knife into his digestive organs
with pious resignation and becoming fortitude.
Johnny Hall (somehow wo always leave him to
the last, this is because we know that there is no
fear of forgetting him) amused the bouse mightily,
and as there is but little assistance afforded him by
the piece, his success is distinctly creditable to
him. During the oourt scene he makes a des-
perate effort t“ go off tue stage, but is dragged
hack by the officer. This undue officiousness on
the part of the peeler earned for aim our un-
changeable haired. Man’s Inhumanity to man
makes hundreds of theatre-goers mourn.
* • *
“Janet Pride” must have been written
very lo.ig 1 go. Several dramas, teste “ Wages of
Bin,” “ Woman of the People.” “The New Mag-
dalen,” have apparently borrowed extensively
from it. It spite of this, we bedeve that this
drama will he a popular production. An Austra-
lian play, by a colonial author, is to follow.
*• • •
The Sydney Royal has been crowded from
Saturday night. Miss Kate Bishop, as Pauline,
appropriates the puddiog of the current piece,
“Called Back.” She I alls in love in the most natural
manner, and through a tolerably long lifetime of
trouble retains her youtn and beauty unimpaired.
She goes prettily mad, too, after the murder
of her brother. Not the ripping, tearing kind of
lunatic to which we are used, does she become,
but a gentle, mild-mannered imbecile. She obeys
her husband without answering him, and never
fights for the last word. Miss Bishop's actiog
throughout was charming, and in the last scene
her ability was unquestionably apparent. If she
were really a Bishop hers would be the church
militant here on earth. She goes through sorrow
and suffering in a wholesale way with occasional
job lots thrown in, but comes up sending at the
Hnish, eager and anxious for another round with
the grim knocker-out Adversity.
* n *
Dr. Cenari was represented by Mr. J. A.
Meade. Anyone could tell in the first part he was
a doctor-be looked like one~a horse-doctc.
In the last act he has a bad time. After being left
for dead in the snow, he is borne in by a couple of
soldiers and flogged. This does him good, and he
gets well enougn to attest Paulines innocence,
hut dies just as he is about to disclose the name of
Anthony’s murderer. I>ns, and half h's secret
wi(,A Ljax, WeiyyuldLko to hsye
Rignold really murdered Anthony, because If he
had we meet as strangers In the future, George
and ourselves. Cenaridies splendidly—it is the best
thing he does—and the last.
* * *
George Rignold, as Maoari, the spy, was
unlike any spy we have ever seen, His forehead
was no higher than an infant's instep, and his
make-up more [like that of a bank-elerk than a
betrayer of trust, though in that point he re-
sembled one perhaps more strongly than else-
where. He is one of those villains (Macari,
not Rignold) for whom the average man would
wait with a shot gun and put away in the calm and
silent waterhole when he had introduced two
fingers of buckshot into his abdomen at four or
five paces. He betrays his fellow-coDspirators,
lies about Pauline, and areneral'y acts as it villainy
claimed him for her own. All through the presen-
tation Rignold differs from King Henry, and we
are glad to note that the piay is not so “ ’andsome
Georeish” ea most of hia perlormances are. He
was inc ined to allow tne audience to see that
th-ra are some other characters in the piece, and
tne public are consequently thauklul. His acting
throughout was faultless
* * *
Mr. Briaa Darley as Gilbert, the lover of
Pauline, improv s uoon acquaintance. He is, as
our cabman put it—“ r he bl ni joker wot marries
the loony gei.” vir D irley is not as bright as a
ray of sun* bine floating in a sea of glass, but
pamstakiag and careful'.nough. He’ll get better
tfiian bye.
* * *
The pieoe is splendidly staged, and the
details of coLStruction and mounting are entirely
satisfa story.
** * *
Until we saw “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin ” at
the Gaiety we never knew why Liacola was
assassinated. No high-spirited people could let a
mau live who liberated such a mob. Upon the
actors themselves, too, the play must have a de-
moralising tendency. We noticed this particu-
larly la the cases ot a young nigger in moleskin
pauts aDd odd braces, and of a coloured Jad with
an aggressive-locking patch extending from the
lumbar vertebite to tne termination of the spinal
column. Tne former, during the first few
nights of the Play, kept a good deal in the
hack-ground, busying himself picking cottoo,
wtn an occasional “ break-down ” to work
off his supeilluity of animal spirits. But
of late he has begun to deveiope a dangerous
* mbit ion to work his way to the front, jump into
th-> air and yell in a mauuer that makes us thank-
ful that negro slavery was never introduced into
Australia. It is sad to mark the gradual adoption
of boisterous eccentricities of tms young person
and speculate on wnat it mu-t inevitably lead to.
In the interests of the lad himself we would sug-
gest that when next he treats the audience to a
howl of more tfaaa savage ferocity M. Degree
should coune on with a seasoned eow-hiae and
establish something like order. Par better this
thin provoke the audience to take the matter in
hand.
* * m
But the case of the boy is sadder still.
He is a lad of 10 or 11. We had hopes of him at
first. But when we saw him the other night turn
his elbows out and aifect a blasi swagger in a plan-
tation walk-round, the gloomiest forebodings
possessed us B-ought up like that, there's no
knowing where the poor child’s instincts will lead
him. He may become a corner-man, or take up
the concertina. He might even deveiope into a
policeman, or—the thought is gloomy—into a
newspaper reporter, if his aspirations are thus
suffered to run wild. Toe authorities who are
supposed to see that a cheek is put on such crimi-
nal tendencies should look to it. We were glad to
observe that a little bit of “spread-eagleism” in-
troduced into the piece met with a cold reception.
It was where the runaway slave, George Harris
(Mr. Dampier). alluded to Canada as the “couutry
governed oy Victoria, England's Queen, where no
slave is to bs found.” Any desire to applaud this
noble sentiment was promptly squelched by a
Celtio-lookiag mariner m the gallery sardonically
Bquirting a cascade of tjbacco-juice into the pit,
and cyuically remarking, “ Well, I’m ”
* * *
The slave-martyr, Uncle Tom (Mr. Lewis),
sang, and his perlorinance explained at once why
his master sold him cli°ap, on condition that he
Bhouid be removed as far down the Mississippi as
possible. Tom’s belief in the literal truth of
Scripture should he a lesson to other Toms who
try to foist tneir shallow scepticism on a discern-
ing public. He was unversea in modern exegesis,
and was fortunately dead long before Bradmugh
had left off teethinv. Miracles were Toms
stro-g point—that of Daniel and the lions being
his favourite one It never occurred to him that
the lions were merely keeping Daniel for the next
day, beiDg already surreited with Jew pawn-
brokers, given to tDem es pledges by the King.
But it was when on board the steamer, this long-
suffering coloured man had a good cnauco, by tell-
ing a thunaping lie, of saving tne flying Etizi, and
yet preferred to tell the truth, tuat you recog-
nised how nigger nature has changed since his
day. At last you go full of himself aad his psalm-
siuging, and regretted that it wasn’t he, and Dot
Daniel, who had to interview the beasts. The
chief characteristics of Miss Livington’s Topsy is
its originality. The same may be said of Mr
Sheridan's lawyer Marks. Misi Kemble’s resolve
to save her child, at all hazards, showed the
strength of the maternal instinct, a _d was received
with favour by all the actual ana prospective
mothers in the pit. The piece continues to draw
good houses.
** * *
The Federal Minstrels have agaia faoed
the Sydney footlights, and with so much legitimate
and other drama floating round, are more warmly
welcomed than ever. The Academy, the “ Home
of Minstrelsy and Mircn,” is crowded nightly.
Rent and Moynham still rattle the rib piece i, and
KeeDau ani Warner attend to the hide. Tail is
our tunny way of saying one couple batter the
boues while tne opposition tatter the tambos.
* * *
The opening item oa Saturday was the
overture. Porter, who lsgradually getting stouter,
gave a floe rendering of the martia air, “ i’ll C >n-
quer or Die.” After hearing this we thought
Porter would make a good soldier, and subse-
quently tried to coax him into j hniog tbe bydney
L-mceahe, but he explained mat h. had all the
flgnt knocked out of nim long ago in a deadly
encounter with a crawfish, and now he is only mar-
tial on the st ge; off it, he is quieter nan a frozm
ghost. Sam Keenan chirruped “Ohl Mlissa, ’ and
the burden ot his song, of course, appeared to be
his anxiety to kiss ner.
* * *
Beaumont Read warbled “ The Little
Newsboy ”in his own pathetic manner. If Read
had as much to do with little newsboys as we have
he would find the pathos didn t fit the character.
The only thing pathetic about a Sydney newsboy
is bis trousers. Tney gontraly appear to be in
mourning for something gone before, and the
part in front seeks vainly to hide its sorrow for
that which is gone behind. But there is always
one sound point about a newsboy—he has never a
hole in his pocket nor in his socks Nature gave him
both, and it is wonderful to notice tne easy way
one can carry a quid in his mouth. No, Beaumont,
you must “ let up ” on the pathe-ie newsboy and
write a aeng about the genuine article.
* * *
Willie Warner musically alluded to the
fBct that a lady triend of his—. Miss Fogarty—had
destroyed several of ner friends by inviting them
to partake of portion of btr Oonstmas eako. Ah,
WUJiel if you really bad eaten Christmas cake id
auy quantity -tons, hundred-weights, pounds or i r ,
as we did at Yule-tide, you would uot have been
comic, old fellow. No, not comic, dead—that’s
what you would have had the matter with you.
Why, we found a pieoa of our own last week at
home, and suspected it to be a specimen in
geology, a kind of pliocene formation. We took
it to the T. ANn C. Jernil, office to have it assayed,
fthd ftiMira we got th*t; sort pi
was not suitable for growing cucumbers. The
asaaver bad pounded it in a mortar and “tested"
it. If he had only tasted it. Ah I
* * *
Amery’s sonorous voice filled the hall
with the music of “A Hundred Fathoms Deep.”
His lungs must be about that depth; he gets
down so low that the man who wrestles with the
big fiddle, has to go down on
his Knees to find the note. We’ve often been
down on our knees to find a sixpence. The quar-
tette chorus in this item was the most musical
feature in the bill.
* * *
The “ Maid and the Magpie ” was Bent’s
contribution to the first part of the programme.
There is a sort of plot in this melody. A sailor
and a farmer are mixed up with the maiden and
the magpie to such an extent that a coalition be-
tween the parties appears imminent, but the
magpie by betraying her mistress’ love for the
sailor leads the farmer to shoot him. the maiden
immediately stabs herself with a crochet-need’e,
the farmer jumps into the well and spoils the
water by dying in the hole, the cat eats the mag-
pie, and the jig is up. This may not be the correct
version of the Diece, but, like “Uncle Tom's
Cabin,” it is an adaptation.
* * *
Dunbar, by special request, gave “Kil-
larney,” a number which suits his rich voice re-
markably well. We have been in Killarney—
strange to say we never heard tne soLg there,
though we have seen the Emerald hills and wind
ing bavs. and the angels who fold their wings and
r» st. They hide the wings though and rest on a
blackthorn stick, which they use occasionally for
batin’ bailiffs.
* * *
The specialty acts were good, and the
corner jokes mostly fresh. One or two, however,
have been kept too long. Joseph took them when
he went down into Egypt to entertain Phaorah
with, and while in gaol he told them to the chief
butler and baker, and one df these gentlemen im-
mediately prayed to be hanged. We will not pray
that way, but if that Harriet Beecher’s toe-gag is
given t gain we shall go out and bay a little gun,
and—but no matt-ab.
*« • m
“ We’ve been to Sydney Alhambra, Frank
Smith’s, you know the thing.” [Once more you
want to work on us the minstrel kind of thing
Why not at once an organ get, a monkey, and
parade ; ’Ps not to sing unmusical, bv us that you
ere paid.—Eu.B ] [But, sir.] [No buts, just give
the show, what saw you, and wnat not; leave out
the dead folks, and, you know, why ante-up the
plot.] The plot, great Scott. I’m dumb: here
goes, and since you are unmusical, why hold your
hat for prose. The first part of the programme
was the overture—(lt mostly is.—Ed. B.)— but the
band under Charley'Austin calls for a special line;
then Barrington out Barrington-ed himself, he
ought to put the C between him and the first
letter of the alphabet Miss Williams warbled
sweetly, "Leave Me not in Anger.” Not us; it
was soda we wanted. Wesley mentioned in gentle
tenor —“ The Moon is out to-night, Love.” Funny
a fellow never sings “ 'the Love is out to-night,
Moon ”; not he, because the dog is out also. Billy
Hugo followingly appeared. Bill he can’t warbleise
to any great extent, but he is a champion bone-
shaker. Lor’, what a velocipede he would have
been—or, what a poorhouse undertaker—he can
rattle ’em. Miss Lucy Fraser, with a song about
a bad dream she once heard; Hetty Croucher,
with a hornpipe; and Nina Tulloch.as Captain La-
di-dah, helped things along Miss Hope was in-
disposed, but Matlock filled her place; and a duet
by Miss Rowe and Mr. Farley, and a comio song
by Mr. Jackson, filled the best bill the Alhambra
has given amongst its many good ones.
** * *
The Western tour of the Lynch family
began o i Wednesday night, when Liverpool was
operated upon. Penrith and all other Western
towns that are able to rais s a fifty-pound note are
to be treated to “ Lynch law ” during this trip.
** * *
Dan. Barry and company continue to
supply the Norther" papers with matter for the
leading columns. Whenever he visits a town the
usual chat about Bismarck’s policy is omitted, and
the excellencies of the Barry company are de-
tailed in leaded minion under the soul inspiring
sentence, “ Magna veritas,” &o. Dan. is doing ex-
cellent business. having made a special boom at
Tam worth and Armidale.
** * •
“ Dark Days ” is running its third week at
the Melbourne Bijou. This drama is the joint
work of Hugh Conway and Comyns Carr. Since
the death of the former, Mr. Carr has announced
to the world that the popular novelette, “Dark
Days,” was merely the child of the drama, and
quite an after-thought of its Jucky author. Whe-
tuer the world would have beeD favoured with
this statement if poor Fargus hadn’t fallen a
victim to Italian drainage Is open to doubt. He
can’t contradict his coliaborateur’s assertion be-
cause he is dead, but to our way of thinking the
drama presents evidence of being adapted from a
book aiready written. Such names as Baggie
Morton, Drummond, Edward Sleight, and Charlie
Punter appear on the playbill. The dialogue of
the drama furnishes no clue to the identity of
these people. Evidently, then, the public were
presumed to be already acquainted with Baggie
and Co. when the drama was concocted. Again,
the first scene is “Mr. North’s house in London.”
There is only a Dr. North and Mrs. N.in the drama.
Finally, the lengthy dialogues in which the first
three acts abound are strongly suggestive of adap-
tation. A glance through the novel would enable
us to form a more decided opinion upon the merits
of Mr. Oomycs Carr's claim. But we never read
novels. Our studies are confiaed to the two B’s—
Bible and Bulletin.
* * *
The plot of Hugh Conway’s book is pro-
bably lamiliar to the majority of our readers, so
it is not necessary to give more than an outline of
the drama. This is divided into five acts. The
first act gives us a love-making scene between
Percy Pendand and Ethel Btabourne, and ditto
between Dr. North and Phillippia Lafarge, in
which the lady announces her secret marriage
with Sir Mervyu Ferrand as the curtain falls. The
second act contains the interview between Sir
Mervyu and the tout William Evans with the sub-
stqueut scene in which the naughty baronet
springs the news of his former marriage upon
Phillippia and her medical admirer. The third,
and most dramatic act, is devoted to the baronet’s
visit to Dr. North’s house, and his murder by
Evans. A feeble fourth act transpires in tevilie,
and a still feebler fifth introduces us to the in-
terior of the Assize Court, at Tewnham, wherein
William Evans, after standing a good even money
chaoce ot being acquitted, wantonly “gives him-
self away ” in an altogether impossible fit of funk
Tnis Courthouse scene flavours strongly of the
ridiculous. Tne general public only mustered to
the extent of six or seven the night we looked in.
The curtained doorway led immtdiatirly into a
bleak country road, from which we inferred
that the witnesses waited their turns on the
nearest milestone. As lor the jury, no wily
prisoner, like Evans, would have let one of
them pass unchallenged. Twelve more blood-
thirsty-looking fellows neyer voted away another’s
life.
* * *
Mr. Titheradge was uniformly good as Sir
Mervyn Ferrano, so good that we were nn-
fe gnedly sorry to lose him in the third act. Mr.
Fiemming was equally successlul as Dr. North
Sir Mervyn's sneering reference to the doctor’s
“ frank and open face ” was understandable.
There is something open about Mr. Flemming's
countenance. Tap way in which he brushed baok
his hair would inspire confidence in the breast of
a ladies’ school nustrers If Mr. F. is only half as
honest as he looks be will go to “ Fweet Beulah-
land’’—wherever that may oe. The William Evans
of Mr. Bobert Brough prove'" him to be a versatile
actor. Nothing of the Lord Chancellor was visible
about this Newmarket tout. Mr. Brough s action
spake eloquently of his calling, and if some of his
tyeye mofp suggeAivpof melodrama
than the stable that only goes to prove tw
Hu&h c ° n way wasn’t a “ horsey ” man *
real Evans, instead of talking about “hnw
ing strong cards in his hand” (antiquat fl ;
figure of speech that it is) would boast nf
having “a bit up his sleeve.” The notion 0 f »
racecourse rough believing in *’ avenging spirits
too, is simply preposterous, and Mr. Brough barX
succeeded in preventing his terrified lligbt batnil
white-robed Phillippia from being openlv
ridiculed. In spite of these disadvantages, though
the performance is one to be remembered Mr
Oates was quite at his best in the easy character nf
Percy Portland, and Miss Boucicault scored simi-
larly as Ethel Brabourne. Miss Maggie Kni»hf
played Phillippia Lafarge in very uneven style
At times she showed genuine power, but far inn
frequently her accent was faulty, and posturing
ungraceful. Mr. Biuelcault appeared in the las?
act on y, as counsel for the prisoner. He didn +
work very ardently for his client, but as that foni
subsequently “ ’fessed,” his blood wasn t upon thi
barrister’s head. However, the next time we
tried for murder we shan’t give Dion fl's the iob of
defending us. J uut
* ~ * *
“Dark Days” is splendidly mounted, bar-
ring the Assiae Court, and should draw another
two or three weeks, for the Beoond and third acts
has strength enough to suppoxt the rest of the
olay. By the way, in the second act appear three
friends of Sir Mervyn Ferrand, whom we imagines
to be Baggie Mortan and Charlie Punter and some
body else. Those gentlemen we shall never forget'
They possessed a grace and beauty whioh we n«d’
hitherto believed to be inseparable from the
figures on tailors’ fashion cards.
** * *
Miss Lottie Montal and M. Poussard ap-
pear to have been so overcome by the “triumphant
success” of “ MadameL’Archiduc,” tbattheyhave
deserted the Melbourne Opera House. MissMontal
is seriously indisposed, and Monsieur no longer
wields the baton. A Miss Ethel Harcourt took the
? lac . e ,.°f the “star” during “Madame L’Archi-
duc a last days Miss Harcourt did nothing in
particular, but did it very well and looked very
nice. ‘Boooaccio,” which has just been put
up, should thrive a lot better than Offenbach’s
failure.
** * *
At latest Alice Dunning Lingard was tour-
ing the English provinces with Wilson Barrettand
Clement &cott s new drama, “ Sister Mary,”
** * •
Irving’s representation of “ Faust,” at
London Lyceum, is a very giddy affair indeed. In
the whole course of her highly succes<ful theatri-
cal career Miss Ellen Terry has probably never
perpetrated so grave an error as she is guilty of
when, as Marguerite in “ Faust,” she takes off her
dress in sight of the wondering audienee, and goes
gaily In search of her nightgown robed only in
virtue and her petticoat, etcetera. Miss Terry, in
loose flowing garments, has been properly re-
garded as the High Priestess of the osithetes for a
considerable period, and bo long as she clung to
ample and indefinite robes her position was secure-
the instant, however, that she stepped out of her
dress and stood before people, a large framed,
rather angular woman, with unpleasantly red
arms, it was all over. One remembered that she
was a widow and a mother—one recalled anything
and everything, rather than that she was supposed
to personify Goethe's modest little maiden of
barely 16 summers. To see so much-photographed
a Jady eventually retire from the stage in odo
pettiooat without having taken off her stockings,
was dreadful to the gallery and the bald-heads of
the stalls. No wonder Alfred Bennett disgustedly
left a land where such things could be.
Sir Henry Parkes on the Coalition
“ The leader of the Opposition and the Premier of
the retiring Ministry which won’t retire are trying
to form a combination which is to be a Govern-
ment.”
Mr. Harold Stephen, junior member for
Cooma (N.S.W.), is suffering from a severe attack
of neuralgia following upon an abscess in the ear,
which prevented him for some weeks from attend-
ing to his Parliamentary duties. It is feared that
his malady will impair his hearing.
This accounts for the cow- juice in the
cocoa-nut. Ever since the finale to the Soudan
farce was played, we have been kicking ourselves
to discover why so many of our Khakee heroes of
the Nanny-goat Campaign troubled to turn up
and receive their useless bits of nickel. It has
now leaked out, however, that a rumour was in-
dustriously circulated amoDg the warriois bold to
the effeot that the Governor's speech would run as
follows:—“Citizens ! Soldiers 1 and Heroes Un-
conquered I Bismillah Khan du haukal eben,
which is Soudan slang for ‘Put it there—how
goes it I’ Since the Egyptian war, medals have no
longer been distributed amongst the soldiers
brave of Eogland. JYour unexampled gallantry on
the bloody fields of not only Suakim, Berber,
and Wadyhaitanhalfa but also Moore Park, North
Shore, and Parrama-taTi, however, cry aloud for
recognition, and it is, therefore, my pleasing duty
now to present you with what I am sure your true
hearts will value more than any medal or decora-
tion I can and that is a ticket for a square
meal at the “Fiying scud,” and a good old quart
of “tangle.” No wonder the men gaped at their
pewter dumps with ill-concealed contempt and
walked off with looks on their bronzed brows that
would take the sour even out of a green lemon.
" ■ 1
HOLD ON TO PROOF.
Proof is a difficult principle to get at. Lawyers,
©f oourse, know how to manufacture it, but then
they are specialties in the art of proving black to
be white, and vice versa; and c,«n so throw dust into
witnesses’ eyes that tnose unhappy people are
speedily afflicted with color blindness. Again, that
I which is proof to one man is not to another. Men
and women, then, are susceptible to proof very
much ia proportion to tne influence of their pre-
judices. However, there are some matteis which
are superior to all question or doubt. Take for
example Mr. Joseph Hanltin’s testimony to the
efficacy of Warner s Safe. Cure. Here is evidence
whmh cannot be weakened; proof which cannot
be gainsaid. Mr. Rankin who is a weli known
resident on Farreli-street, P rt Melbourne, states
that he has oeeo sick with liver andkiduey troubles
lor tbe past seven months, aad that duriug that
time he had treatment from not lees than nine
doctors. He got so bad at last that he was recom-
mended to go to the hospital. “ I was as much as
told,” writes Mr. Rankm, “ that my case was incur-
able.” * * * During my sickness, I took all kinds of
remedies, buc never found relief until I tried
Warner s Safe Cure and Safe Pills. At that time I
could scarcely walk across a room. Before I had
finished two bottles I felt a new man, and now,
persisting ia the treatment, have so far recovered
that I contemplate gettiog back to work very
shortly. In my ease I can honestly declare that I
have been brought back from the grave by War-
ners Safe Cure.” This is the kina of proof that
knocks ever doubt and annihilates scepticism.
When a man has been almost literally snatched out
of the very jaws of death itself, it would be very
difficult to pr*>ve to him tbac the agent of b)S
rascue was other than infallible. Mr. Rankin, ther,
holds on to proof, which, in his case, is certaimy
irrefutab e And, iodted, tbe proof which is illut-
trated in the c untortabie fact teat, but for its ex-
istence, the subject of its operation would, in ail
probability, have none, is perha s as sound ard
soHoi-Butial evidence aa ever confounded sophist or
casuist.
The most popular beverage in the colonies—
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Amongst the wedding presents of Princess
Marie of Orleans were two Sevres Bowis which
wouid fetch £lOOO any day at Cnristie's, in London.
Bowls in glass aud Cnina in lndisiribable colour*,
shapes, and patterns, very suitable lor presents or
for use, are always kept in stock by Bray Bros., of
402 and 401 George-street, Sydney. Call and inspect
them. *
§ee that you, obtain Wolfe’s Schnapps,


The Cat Again!
When William Lewis received seven of
the 15 strokes owing to him by the flogger in the
Newcastle (N.8.W.) Gaol on Wednesday week, Dr,
Harris, seeing that the man might die, interposed.
bad him unstrapped, and ordered him to be led
away. It wa9 for indecency the ciiminal was sen-
tenced During the past year offences of this
class have, despite—perhaps, thanks to-the
(logger, been growing in number inN.S.W. What-
ever the lash is good for, Its usefulness cannot be
Tho Widow’s Mile.
“Her Majesty the Queen has contributed £500 (!) to the fund for the relief of the unemployed.”— (Recent cablegram.)
“Queen Victoria is the richest woman in Europe. Her accumulated savings are known to exceed live millions[?]ing.”(!)- (English paper.)
proved by a study of this branch of criminal his-
tory. it will be against several sound prin-
ciples of mental science if its usefulness
here is ever proved. Such offences are the out-
come of weak brains and of diseased imaginations
The idea of meeting physical violence by physical
violence is specious, but unsound. To apply phy-
sical violence for the repression of offences which
originate, nine times out of ten, in cerebral weak-
ness, is not reasonable. This misuse of instruments
is characteristic of British communities. As a
notion, the British are behind in psychological
science. They cannot see fine hut well-marked
shades of difference As in their diet, they want
something solid, like roast beef, so in their treat-
ment of criminals of all sorts they want some-
thing * they o&u feel with their eyes shut
—a halter or a cat o’ nine tails. The Latin mind is
different. It is to Latin influences the humanisa-
tion of the British criminal code is due. Every
offence used to be met physically. For one thing,
the nose went. For another, the ears. For
another, the eyes were plucked out, or the upper
lip torn off, or the scalp cut away. When Con-
stantine ascended the throne, he ordered these
penalties to be put down as the cruelties of British
barbarians. He was not a model himself, but with
the eye of his race he saw disproportion, un-
suitableness, inconsequence in the British system
of punishment. That system has bepn tem-
pered from time to time, but still starts
from the old base. Imprisonment, restraint,
compulsory industrial occupation in conflne-
ment, do not satisfy the genius [of the Austral'an
offshoot ©f the British family. To feel that it is
PunishiDg vice it must see drops drawn and skin
flying. It begins with that. That in turn breeds
purblindness as to when, if ever, these drastic re-
medies may he applied. Hence we have such
cases as the one we take for a text ’Those, we
repeat who would flog the brutal and calculateg
garotter, have a plausible though rotten argu-
ment on their side. Those who would flog a set
of depraved drivelling half-imbecile wretches
who bear on their countenances evidences of their
broken brains ought to Introduce the oat to the
lunatic asylums to keep refractory patients In
order. Is it of anyus9 directing the attention of
the apologists for flogging to the fact that the
House of CommooSs a few months since, empbati-
cally refused—and at a time, too, when the nation
was writhiDg in the agonies of the Stead case—to
sanction flogging for offences against decency ?
Bliss unspeakable! Melbourne Punch is
about to be enlarged. Wee unutterable! The
Melbourne Bulletin, which prigged our Dame,
and brought upon it literary disgrace, is to
be swallowed up by the new paper. But
we cherish a wild hope that some of the
brightest features of the last-mentioned pro-
duction will be retailed by Punch. We trust
such questions as “ Who is the fair girl that
meets the butterman on Tuesday nights ? ” wiil
not be permitted to drop into oblivion. Even an
extra supply of Punch's fine old crusted jokes
and cuts (that are line misshapen ghosts of Du
Maurier’s efforts for the London original) would
not console us for the less of those thrilling pro-
ductions of the Victorian scullery-maids.
“In France, the oxen that work in the
fields are regularly sung to as an encouragement
to exertion, and no peasant has the slightest
doubt that the animals listen to him with
pleasure.” They sintf to our dxen as well in this
country, though whether the “animals listen to
it v ith pleasure ” or not we can’t quite say. Ail
we know is that whenever the proprietor happens
to place himself within a convenient distance of
any of the team, be stands a ten to one chance of
haying a hole punched in him by“Bawley»” and>
subsequently, a hoist in the direction of the
nearest township by Brandy and Strawberry. You
can get bullock-drivers, we see, for 6i. per day
now. These are men, who, with tea in the bullock
country at 3f. per lb , and sea-wted tobacco at 1
a plug, may be considered to hold life alarmingly
cheep
Fiat Justitia! f\nd spare no expense. It
is with feelings of the most sincere satisfaction,
and of gratitude to our upright, and patriotic
rulers as well, that we record the Tact that a rich
hut unscrupulous speculator was flogged »t, New-
castle on Thursday last for claiming £2O 000 com-
pensation from Government for land resumed for
railway purposes by the State, the said land having
been proved to be a orth not more than £5. This
is one of the many public acts which proclaim to
the world with trumpet tongues that our sense of
justice overcomes all other considerations, and
that fraud and chicanery can never gain a footing
in this glorious land of ours. [This, sub rosa. The
above isa lie. We wrote it to give foreigners a
pleasant impression of the country, but we ate
half afraid it is too tough to be swallowed by any
nation except the Esquimaux and Irish. The
man who wasskeiped was a wretched little sailor
who drsuk himse'f into the belief that he was
Adam beiore the Fall, and that every woman be
met was either bis missus, or the hired girl. He
was poor, and decidedly unfashionable. — El). E.J
Buy Wolfe's Schnapps by the bottle,


BRIEF MENTION.
A “Full ” House.—After the refreshment
hour.
“ You are a blasted old liar.” Expression
copied from report of recent proceedings of Ade-
laide City Council.
A man named Fuller was lost in the bush
near Maryborough (Q.) some short time ago. How
disgusted he must have been with his name!
Dan. O’Connor, the N.S.W. ex-Postmaster-
General, should take; heart. At bazaar,
at Berlin, the Crown Prince appeared as a pork-
buteher.
In Sweden the Government runs the
drinking-shops. In N.S.W. the drinking-shops
run the Government. Every country has its pecu-
liar customs.
The Sydney Echo prints articles styled
“ Parliament in Session,” by a Beetle. What
sort of a beetle now ? Some parts of the Echo
seem to be provided by a hum-bug.
On the third application of the Bathurst
Racing Club, Dan. Mayne, the ex-secretary, sent
back the balance of the club’s property. It was a
colonial sofa, and a milk-bill.
Father Huggard, according to the Globe,
is one of the defendants in an abduction case (of
the conventual order) at Bourke, N.S.W. Hug-
gard I That sounds like business.
The Sydney Globe declared when it
started that it did not intend to run in the old
newspaper grooves at all. Yet, alas! now we And
it telling usl that Mies Hetty Croucher's medley
dance took well.”
In a powerful leader the Narandera
Argus works off— 44 In the course of nature the
call becomes a cow.” Certainly; in moat cases.
But editing a country paper has a tendency to ar-
rest development.
At a meeting of the Melbourne Hospital
authorities it was stated that one patient out of
every six succumbs to the hospitality of that
deadly institution. Sicks may go in, you see, but
only five come out.
“ I say, major,” said the adjutant, writ-
ing in a book— 41 what shall I enter them two
buckets that was give to the flarmy by Mr. Grog-
son last night ? ” “ Plate for the officers’ quar-
ters,” was the immediate reply.
The most startling piece of information
in “ Wood’s Almanac for 1686 ” is that which pro-
claims that ash Wednesday will fall this year on
Tnursday, March lltb. We hope we may never
die till we see this prediction verified.
ON THE ROCKS.
“ Climb up,” the maiden cried; “ climb up I
Fear not, ’twill hold, each sturdy rock!”
With foot and paw he climbed and saw
A face that would have stopped a clock.
First missionary’s daughter: “Andyour
father died at the foreign mission, you say ? lam
sincerely sorry to learn it. Did his death result
from natural causes?” Becond missionary’s
daughter: “Yes, they ate father on the 4th of
September.”
A Melbourne lecturer on scientific subjects
was asked by a Herald reporter if he did not
think the tragedy at Coburg was due to religion.
•’No,” replied the lecturer, “ decidedly not, for to
he truly religious is to be well-balanced.” So it
.8-well balanced at the bank.
According to the Sydney Globe the un-
employed of th© Contingent have constituted that
journal their organ. It is a pleasing thing, now,
to see a young and struggling newspaper gra-
dually, but surely, working its way up to the
realms of Affluence and Prosperity.
A Melbourne paper, serious almost to
ghastliness as a general thing, in referring to
Bishop Moorhouse’s address, descriptive of the
late bush fires in the Heytesbury district, says—
“ Bishop Moorhouse was in his element with the
fire.” Humph! He would be a curious Bishop if
he wasn’t.
In Queensland all cattle-brands are re-
gistered “By thunder, it puzzles me,” said old
Spinifex of the Mucki— 44 that person says that
Shakespeare is a greater man than ever Jim
Tyson was, but may I never see a hoof again if I
can find his brand on the register. Wonder where
his oountry is ? ”
A newly-born child was discovered in the
Hay public park, and the Sydney Evening News
darkly hints— 44 the police believe they have a clue
to the mother.” We believe they have. And to
the father, also. But rural policemen are not suoh
fools as to follow a trail that might land them out-
side a churchwarden’s door.
At Orange (N.S.W.), the case of George
Beaver, a little boy, charged on remand with
maliciously setting fire to a fence, was again
brought before the Court. It was eventually ad-
journed for a month, to afford the desperate
prisoner a show of, in that time, becoming dis-
tinctly visible to the naked eye.
We see, by cable, that the London munici-
pality is making arrangements for the reception
of the Colonial Exhibition Commissioners, and
others. This is ominous I We almost wish, now,
that we hadn’t Thunder I “arrangements!”
. . . This tall cabling is irritating when we know
that a few soothing words and a biscuit
The Peak Downs Telegram says “We
have received the first number of the Journal
op the National agricultural and Indus-
trial Association op Queensland, We wish
our new contemporary every success, and trust
that it will be the 4 missing link ’it speaks of.” If
the paper isn’t, the editor is nearly sure to.
There’s a poet among a firm of Sydney
auctioneers with two Smiths in it. Here’s some
of his fiae frenzy:
“ And scatters the breeze to cool down the day,
When from the hot town you emerge.”
What troubles us about this is that we are afraid
of killing the wrong Smith.
We read in The Lady, a very high-toned
English periodical:— 44 Lady Stephen's sociabilities
at the Melbourne Government House continue to
he very popular and largely attended, and the
maids and matrons of N.S.W. in their pretty sum-
mer dresses throng the saloons and enjoy them-
selves immensely.” Exactly. All London believes
that N.S.W. is the capital of Melbourne.
Family man to Sydney Club man (who is
foaming on the side walk): “Ab, never mind, Jor-
roefes, our troubles will soon bo over Why, I’ve
had no water in my house for five days ” “ Your
water, be slammed I” cried the clubman. “Think
how I am suffering. (Faintly). The ice-cart is
nearly an hour late.” Lis supported inside in a
s mi-unconscious state by two club waiters.
We have just heard that Dean Cowper. of
Sydney, is off for a trip to Europe. We shall be
extremely sorry to lose the very reverend gentle-
man, conscious as we have been all along, of his
support and approval. The Dean, however, may
rely uoon getting it regularly, wherever he is.
We will not desert him. A catskin wrapper will,
however, denote the termination of subscription.
The incapable inebriate found blocking
the highways of Melbourne, in future, on Sun-
days. will be fined twice the usual amount. They
won’t let the working-man go to the Library, or to
the Picture Gallery, or to the Museum, on Sun-
days; nor will they let him get Sabbatically drunk
at a reasonable rate. They are gradually sneaking
on him with a lasso of legislation at th© end of
which he must, in course of time, be dragged to
church.
We have it from the ’Frisco Wasp that
“ a very clever English writer sojourning in our
midst deoided to deliver a lecture on 4 Literary
Life in London.’ He didn’t desire any newspaper
assistance, he said, as he wished the lecture to be
a BUCCBSS on its own merits.” The lecturer waited
till 1) for his audience, but only four persons turned
up, who, on being accosted, owned to being tramps
who had looked in for a warm, What iatrigues
us about this is the “ very clever English writer.”
It couldn't be Frank Warden, could it ? It might.
He’s been out three weeks now, and he’s a fiyer.
Another anecdote of the cross-eyed
heathen. At Armidale, N.S.W., a Chinese shep-
herd, whose flock was counted weekly, was found
each week to be one short. At last, John’s master,
thinkmg the ocourrence was too regular to be
accidental, asked his Mongolian vassal to account
for it in some way. The reply of the son of Con-
fucius was worthy of Ah Sin—or of Hayter, the
Victorian Government Statist:—“ You see, one
HER MEASURE.
MB. AARON SHEMARBONEE ISAACS (to Mrs. Isaacs) ; “VY, REBECCA, VAT ARE YOU
A DOIN’ OF?”
E REBECCA: “VY, AARON, I’M A MEASURIN’ CLOTH-FROM MY RIGHT HAND TO THE
END OF MY NOSE IS A YARD.”
MR. ISAACS: “HOLY ABRAHAMSH! ONLY VUN YARD TO THE END OF YOUR NOSHE,
REBECCA? VAT A MEASURE TO BUY BY!”
tousan’ man, one die every week; one tousan’
sheep allee same die every week.” “ Well, John,”
remarked the boss, 44 one more week you die—
allee same sheep. You countim too good for me.”
“Edward Bowen,” says the Bligh
Watchman, “the old man who was found on
Weinteriga, lodging iu a hollow log and living on
pigweed, was again brought up,” and the P.M.
promised to get him an order for the Benevolent
Asylum-an undertaking which was very far from
“ exoiting raptures on part of the old gentleman.”
We have seen the Benevolent Asylum, and would
AN IMPROVER.
YOU SEE, MISS, THAT THERE’S A SECRET DRAWER ON TOP, FOR BILLETS-DOUX.
THIS SAVES THE BODICE, YOU KNOW.
sooner live there than in a hollow log if the pig-
weed were very nasty.
“ Bixty to forty on the field,” bawled the
bookmaker. “Done, I’ll take it of you,” answered
a certain gentleman who calls himself Mr. Adol-
phus Neville, or something. “No bet,” replied
the bookmaker. “How do you mean no bet, sir; you
publicly offered it?” said Mr. Adolphus Neville.
“I know I did,” quoth the bookie: “but I don’t
want to bet with you.” “ Why not ? ” enquired
Mr. Neville, "Am I not as good as you ? ”
“Yes,” screamed the metallician, “better—very
much better; but go and bet with your aqua's. ”
The Bega (N.S.W.) Gazette is evidently
under the impression that the Bega repre*entative
is going to have giddy times in London. Listen:—
“ Mr. Gowing.—We hear that this gentleman leaves
for England on Tuesday. He will take with him
credentials from our Bega Society to the Exhibi-
tion Commission, and will thus have a sort of
official entree.” If this ambassador knew as much
as we do of what is to be his lot in London, he
would not be Govying.
Says a rural exchange:—“A disgraceful
soene occurred at the Melbourne cemetery on
Monday, the authorities having placed the wrong
coffin in a grave. A distressing scene ensued
among the mourners.” Nothing so tends to shake
one’s faith in human nature as the reflection that
you’ve been howJiag over the wrong corpse. To
think that the sods you imagined were keeping
your mother-in-law under were superimposed on
a stranger is maddeniug.
The Wesleyan Spectator in a recent
issue wax as wrath because “ Liberal Wesleyans ”
and “Methodists of 2) years standing” occasion-
ally write to the dailies, challenging the decisions
of their pastors and spiritual masters at their con-
ferences. Give ear to its little whine: —“Our
private detective has had orders more than once
to enquire into the relations in which the gentle-
men stand to the church with which they olaim
such affinity.” Mighty Caesar, 44 Our private de-
tective 1” Not satisfied withjthat moral policeman
Satan the First, the unctuous Wesleyan editor has
his own intelligent sergeant and zealous and
efficient constable.
Fancy, the special correspondent of the
S.M. Herald recently arrived at Grafton (on tour)
when thero was not a soul to welcome him.
Betrayed some four hours afterwards at the hntoi
by his appetite, a feeble effort was made to
him that reception to which the gentlemanin
view of his literary attainments alone, wt>s suroi
entitled. So “ wine was then ordered in,” and e y
give a cachet to the proceedings, a boy
promptly attached to the schoolhouse bell-mnl 9
and ore'ered to toll the scholastic bell until *,,,1’
time as, lit by wax candles in old silver candelahr
the distinguished journalist sought the crackfoiir
poster of the caravanserai. ur ’
There is a man in Coilingwood (Vi o \
who doesn’t seem to have had a good time since hi
has been married:—“ Kerwin v. Kerwin, in wliinh
a husband complained of his wife for assault- but
although outside the court, the man-beater would
not appear. Mrs. K. was a terrible woman whiio
on the drink; she nigh choked an old woman and
when the husband interfered she tore a lum’n nt
bis whiskers out. Kerwiu said he bad been ten
years married to the woman, and he never had a
moment’s peace since, during which time she hud
been in all the lock-ups round Melbourne.” Didn’t
he have some peace when hia very much better
half was in the lock-up ? We’d like to learn Mr*
K.’s opinion in re the proposed bacheloi-tax.
A Mr. Robert Dickens, speaking at the
Hospital Conference in Melbourne, said that “Even
if the mean and miserable wretches whom God
had prospered, would not give of their substance
to the poor, it was their own less.” So it is, so it
is, dear frieDds: tut unfortunately the matter
ends there. Everyone is aware that it shall profit
a man nothing if he gain the whole world and lose
his own soul. But, then, nobody else makes anv
thing by the transaction. The recipient of true
charity glories—or shall glory—in the thought that
the giver is laying up for himself treasures in
Heaven. Yet a hungry suppliant derives poor
satisfaction from the reflection that a stingv
C.M.G. is accumulating a big pile, a big, blazing
pile, in Sheol. B
The controversy re Sydney cabmen in the
D T. is assuming a humorous phase. One writer
states his experience of a cabman, who seemed
everything that was civil, obliging, and genteel-
the man, evidently who would help you out when
you stopped at a pub., and help you in when you
were ready to start for the next corner. The
alleged existence of the courteous cabman is, how-
ever, received with derision by a victim who sar-
castically remarks:—“No doubt 4 J.H.Y.’ has
fouDd one of the lusi naturce himself (ought he
not in simple Christian charity to give his num-
ber.”). No, no I You can write in jeneomiaatio
terms of your brother through the Press, if you
please; but you cannot go so far as to give his
number.
The Launceston correspondent of the
Tasmanian News is responsible for the following
telegram:—“The body of John Armstrong, a
labourer, about 45 years of age, was found floating
by the Queen’s Wharf yesterday 112th met.) after-
noon. it had been in the water 10 days. Deceased
was unmarried and had no children.” What are
we to understand from the concluding paragraph
of this “wire?” Are we to conclude that the
fact of an unmarried man dying in Launceston,
and leaving no children is such an unusual event
that when it does occur it is deserving of special
notice? We leave "our own correspondent” to
answer the question. John Armstrong must have
felt lonely under the circumstances described, and
probably suicided In consequence.
The Sydney Evening Nuisance informs
the public as an Item of public news, that a police-
man, belonging to pious Parramatta, has obtained
14 days’ leave of absence, which 44 he is spending
with his old friends in the Ulawarra district.” This
is a kind of new departure. “Mr. Terence O’Toole,
who drives No. 67 nocturnal vehicle, belonging to
Messrs. Slingslush and Co., has obtained a week’s
leave of absence, which he is spending with his
old friends in Woolloomooloo; “ “Mr. William
Pipes, who has for many years efficiently acted as
a turncock under the Corporation, having obtained
10 days’ leave of absence, intends to spend the
time with his old friends at Miller’s Point.” We
will certainly have something like the above in
our Market-street pennorth (?) before long.
At Government House, Sydney. In the
smoking-room.—Elaborate Englishman (who came
out when he was six, and haviDg rather over-dined,
wanted to chip in with astory):—“ I can-aw—tell
you f ’lers—aw—rather ’mawkable thiDg, told me
by Lord—aw—Potleek. When he ’rived first thing
he did was—aw-’gage cab—” Captain Terry: ‘‘Very
nice little story, indeed. Thank you.” El. Eng.:
“ Wait a moment. Whom do you think he recog-
nised in the cabman ?” Capt. T.: “Your brother, of
course, old man,—but you had a deuced broad
hint not to finish it.” Collapse of E aborate
Englishman, who shortly afterwards takes his de-
pirture without joining the ladies, and is mightily
pleased as hs stands, lighting a cigar under the
gaily-lighted windows, to catch the following
snatches of dialogue:-“ It was Lord Potleek that"
—laughter—“and then Terry, there, Lady—”
—laughter— 4; his face ”—sereams of laughter.—
“ but when Gascoigne—great merriment -“prob’iy
gone to drown himself’’—prolonged hilarity.
An advertisement in the Central Aus-
tralian (Bourke, N.S W.) lets us know that "a
regiment of Wolfe’s Schnapps” would unquestion-
ably give Sara Bernhardt embonpoint. Well, we
once did see a regiment of Wolfe's Schnapps—iu
Brisbane, and it was being drilled by a champagne
bottle, in an hotel bedroom occupied by a new
chum, the nephew of a wealthy English Duke.
The new chum, not long before, had come in for a
lot of money, and the usual result followed. When
he set out f« r the station on the Barcoo, he took
with him a 400-gallon tank of rum, and made the
whole country side drunk while the liquor lasted.
When we saw him in thr hotel bedroom he had
“got’em again,” and was under the impression
that schnapps bottles were men belonging to
his regiment, and that the champagne dead marine
was a subordinate officer of his. Anyhow, he was,
in his capacity as colonel, giving instructions to
the champagne-bottle officer, to whom his com-
mands were communicated by the hoots of the
establishment—who had been placed on guard by
the landlord at the urgent request of the best local
medical authority on “ the D.T.’s.”
A CELEBRATE J SURGEON’S EXPERIENCE.
Sandgate, Brisbane, August 9, 1885.
Gentlemen, My wife had a severe attack of
Rheumatism, which flitted from joint to joint, for
more than a week, when a friend (in my absence
from home) reoommended Bt. Jacob’s Oil, and
after two or three applications according to the
instructions given, she found herself, much to her
surprise and delight, entirely free from pain, and
new always keeps a bottle oi the Oil in the house,
I am, sir.
Yours faithfully,
M. T. GIRDLES TONE,
M.R.aS, Eng., L.A.C., Lond.
Americans Co.’s Hop Bitters has restored to
sobriety and health perfect wrecks from intem-
perance. Peruse all
The only perfectly pure spirit procurable—
Wolfe's Schnapps.
Mb. Db (Jcu sot Bbqwnb (late Deputf
Chairman of the Mining Board of New Sou'd}
Wales), Author of the “Miners’ Handy Book,
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guido,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Arbitrator, Adviser,
and Mining Titles Agent, Beresford Chambers,
52 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.*
A oordial the marvel and admiration of the
world—lYol/e's Schnapp s.
Here is Summerjipon us, causing a mighty
thi -at. Don’t fail to obtain your supply of Lemon-
ade, Seltzer, Sodi Water, Ginger Ale, Tonic, Potass
and Lithia Water (for Gout), of Dalm and Oertel,
.Erated Water and Cordial Manufacturers, 403 Pitt-
street. Delivered regularly in town and suburbs
T Volfe's Schnapps would not bave stood tbe test
of nearly a half century were it not ft meet i»upe*
rior article,


"TOWN AND COUNTRY” POESY.
T , is written from Puddledock by William
onrt nublished in Sydney Town and Country
itisa poementitled “Australia,” and
J° U aw- trom its intrinsic merit—is interesting as
"Ratine the channel which Australian poesy ia
out for itself. It is probable that the
B< L°iamal characteristics of a country have a good
physical mouldlng . the shape which its im-
de i oHve literature takes. Thus, by a careful
nf a nation s poetry, it is as easy to tell the
features of the country that gave
L ia to tell the size and idiosyncrasies of
mammal whose front tooth—
."nnnfid under a growing glacier during the early
Tertiary period-hasjust com® to light. And now
for the poem:—
Australia.
„ When our first navigators arrived on the coast,
And into this land made entry,
Enw could have believed that a nation almost
Would grow up here in le3S than a oentury.
«The beginnings were so-so, tha materials un-
sound,
And a great many drawbacks occur d;
Rat in time, perseverance and energy found
That their efforts would bring their reward.”
The real strength of 1 his school of poetry lies in the
fact that it not alone satisfies the requirements of
rhvthm hut conveys some sound information as
well In this it has a marked superiority over the
half incoherent babble of Shelley and Swinburne.
Indeed the high-sounding but obscure phrase-
ology of the latter quickly pal s upon the ear.
You get tired of sugary phrases, meaning nothing,
and long for some plain facts such as Mr. Gay
the new-not the old original Gay—keeps in
stock:—
“With kind and fair dealing, and justice and
truth,
We can rule all the peoples around;
While our free institutions and schools for our
youth
Prove our national life to be sound.
“But, alas I there are cliques who are doing their
best
Our sweet freedom and rights to uproot;
But with strong self-respect we will drive back
each pest
To their own den of dark disrepute.
Religious, social, and political cliqueism is clearly
repugnant to the author’s frank nature. It may
appear arbitrary and cruel to confine it to its
“own den of dark disrepute,” but measures that
at first seem harsh are often the most meroiful in
the;end. To the timid and chicken-hearted, Mr.
Gay's method iruy seem unnecessarily severe, but
it is quite time that those professional plotters
who are constantly scheming “ our rights to up-
root,” should be sept in their places. The two
following verses we take to bo well-recognised
truths, expressed with pardonable scorn:—
“The blackest of deeds are committed oftimes
By the so-called respectably-connected,
Who, by bribes and foul influence, hush up their
crimes,
And too many escape undetected.
“There are numbers in life who look down with a
sneer
On the hard-handed toilers bes'.de them,
Who, if they had their due, would descend to a
sphere
Where they’d find even freedom denied them.”
It is now freely admitted that the curse of N.S.W.
is the number of " so-called respectably-con-
nected ” idlers who stick at nothing in endeavour-
ing to corceii their crimes by throwing the lynx-
eyed officers of justice off the track. Until such
gentry are as “ well-connected ” as their fathers
were —an iron-bar between four—the colony
will be no place for an industrious workingman.
In this thoughtful poem there are nine more
verses, w© would gladly give all, if only to show
that the reproach of not having mastered the
capabilities of metre as a vehicle for firmly-held
opinions can no longer be laid at Australian doors
—but space forbids. It is a hopeful sign of the
times, however, when a high-class paper like the
Town and Country Journal encourages and
pays for (?j talent such as Mr. Gay, of Puddledock,
possesses. We look forward with pleasant antici-
pation for his next effort, and, if the rising bard
will pardon a friendly hint, would suggest that
other periodica s gladlv publish polished verse
like his. A truly remarkable po em, by Mr. Hay-
ter, the well-known Melbourne Statist, appeared
some months ago ia the Victorian Review, a
magazine which, under the able guidance of Mr.
Mortimer Franklyn, has done much to enable
miners’ huts to defy sudden changes of tempera-
ture. Possessing a highly-trained ear, Mr. Franklyn
is a little fastidious, as [may be guessed by his
having once nearly rejected one of Mr. Douglas
Bladen's poems. But Mr. Gay must not be dis-
heartened. From what we know of Mr. Franklyn,
we are justified ia believing that, if tried with a
poem approaching in merit the one under review,
a place would be found for it in the magazine. We
trust Mr. Gay wifi try.
(N.B.—Bearing in mind the opening remarks of
this critique, it is suggested that Mr. Gay lives
down a well.— EL B.)
An American paper stakes its reputation
for veracity on this Robertsonianly romaot'c
statement:— ‘ A California wind-storm recently
blew all tae water out of a river, leaving the
river-bed so dry that it has sine® warped into a
mountain.” That s not much of a lie, after all.
In Now Guinea the natives carted away a whole
range of mountains because it happened to be
named after a person they disliked, and it is feared
that they will also fail to acoount for several of
the rivers which Captain Everill discovered on his
last'expedition. This is a serious matter. The cap-
tain should have brought the rivers back with
him.
This is what it has come to. The Mel-
bourne scavengers arc now on strike. They want
leas hours and more pay. The contractors are
much surprised and even hurt at th's. They state,
m touching terms that they have treated the men
almost as if they were their own relations. They
have taken them to their bosoms and caressed and
Pampered them, and now they turn and bite the
hands that fed them. It is very sad. But there is
a limit to human endurance, and the scavengeis
nave gone beyond that of the good kind contrac-
tors that were like fathers to them. Justly in-
cessed at their ingratitude the contractors have
refused to listen to their demands, and have ad-
vertised for men in the daily papers. They ex-
press confident belief in being able to get shoals
cf men who wifi be glad to do the work. Perhaps
they are right. Bourke-street is stiff with pros,
out of employment, just now. Astanzi:—
Hoi wiiters for the paper.
Who are out of luck and lucre.
Hoi broken clerk, and draper,
Who have lost your all at euchre,
A fortune waits you fairl
So cjme along and caper
With the shovel and tne scrap9r,
And be a soavengairel
This is a specimen stanza If the contractors think
that a song on tnis pattern, set to soirited music-
say a lively wall z tune—would flre the bosoms of
the unemployed to chase the lingering hours away
in cleaning the gutters, we can let them have two
more etaDzas with a rollicking chorus, on condition
that they a low us to nominate, say three, blighted
geniuses of our acquaintance as foremen of the
new gang. It they should think well of this pro-
posal we would suggest that it would be well, in
order to keep the men from losing interest in their
employment and preserve its pristine glamour, to
have a musical box fixed in front of each cart to
Pmy inspiriting airs, to which the men might sing
merrily as they shovelled up the Blush. The
■scavenger’s cart, the centre of as much interest as
the German Band, and the sound of the mud-
turtle would be heard in the land. There is a
Kalizoic beauty about this idea which quite en* I
ohauts us as we think of it.
SAVAGE LIFE IN THE SOUTH
SEAS.
The Key, George Brown’s Experience ?s
a Ladies’ Mai-I.
“It was frequently the case, that natives
living within a few miles of each other, did not
understand one word of (he language of their
neighbours. They were completely naked, and
the ladies’ wardrobe consisted of a fig-leaf on a
tree half-a-mile away. The lecturer related a
number of interesting anecdotes regarding the
early days of the mission. On 3 of the mo:t
amusing was somewhat to the following effect:
His great desire was to get the ladies of the con-
gregation to dress, and on one occasion he went
to the chief's wife and endeavoured to persuade
her to set a good example. She promised to array
herself, and the missionary gave her a dress.
Imagine his horror when she came to the meeting
with the garment simply tied round the neck I The
next time he made an attempt in that direction be
sacrificed himself and acted as lady’s maid.”— The
Rev. George Brown's lecture on “ Savage Life in the
South Sea Islands ,” Auckland Evening Star.
It was a missionary man,
A goodly pious Wesleyan,
Who thought that he a brand new plan
Somehow had hit on,
To save the frizzy-headed nigs,
With hair like Monsieur W(gz9H’s wigs,
Who live on infants and fat pigs,
At wild New Britain.
“WHICH SHOCKED THIS PIOUS PARSON SO!”
Whose natives wear no scanty clout,
Their sleek blaok buttocks round about,
And even fig-leaves go without-
Naked as when horn’d;
Exoept suoh flg-leavo3 as you may
See growing half-a-mile away,
So light and simple their array—
Beauty unadorn’d.
Which shocke 1 th's pious parson so,
That he determined he would go
With s'lks, Bat96D, and calico
Cut for all figures;
With petticoats, and gowns, and aha vis -
Pullbacks and dolmans, veils and falls,
And hold a set of fancy halls
Among those niggers.
And so each shsp he patronises;
And, at tremendous sacrifices,
Buys goods at less than wholesale prior s;
His destination—
With many bales of merchandise,
And Godly tracts and hymns likewise
“HE FIXED HIS EYES UPON HIS BOOK.”
Before the favou ng gale he Hies—
The mission station.
And when he landed on the shore
And told them of the gifts in store,
Although they understood no more
Than babes and sucklings,
They sent up suoh a joyous shout
They yelled and rolled, and danced about.
And lolled their tongues quite inside out,
With gutt’ral chucklings.
They cried out, “Golly, Massa Brown,
You give um plenty white gin’s gown,
Um plenty sing and kneel um down,
And read um Bibles.
No more um white man sailor prig
Um eat um yams and sucking pig,
And cut um swell in Christian rig,
And burn um idols.”
And then a nude, black maid drew near,
With outstretched hand and amorous leer,
Which made poor Brown feel awful queer,
And hide his blushes
Before her dark, dilating eyes,
He h: Id the strange and tempting prize
And clutching it with joyous cries,
Away she rushes.
And all the plump, black Papuan belles,
Stout matrons, piccaninnies, swells,
Surrounded him with heathen yells,
And strange grimaces.
One chieftain “ boned ” a quilted skirt,
Each lubra grabbed a cotton shirt,
And one—a most notorious flirt—
A pair of braces!
And when the Sabbath D ly returned,
The soul of Brown impatient yearned,
To see how his dear pets had iearned
The art of dressing.
And when the hour arrived for prayers,
He mounted up the pulpit stairs,
To watch their fashionable airs.
And give his blessing.
When—horror I through the open doors,
The King of all the blackamoors,
With wives and concubines in scores,
And maids of honour;
Likewise the Queen, came trooDing in
With mincing gait and shark-like grin,
And frizzled hair and well-oiled skin,
And nothing on her I
A gorgeous dress she wore en train,
Of which she seemed exceeding vain,
And gazed around with proud disdain,
And air aesthetic;
And strutted gaily up t he aisle,
Exclaiming: “ Golly, Use de style.”
Shp gave the minister a smile,
Sweet and pathetic.
The King around his neck he wore
The order of the Pinafore;
And every Royal counsellor
Was decorated
With garter round his forehead placed;
Each maid of honour with great taste,
Who wore the breeches round her waiit,
Looked quite elated.
But as for Brown! so shocked was he,
This sad ungodly sight to see,
He skipped the Psalms and Litanee,
To cut it shorter;
He fixed his eyes upon his book,
No wand’ring glance around he took
Lest upon beauties he might look
He didn’t oughter.
Half of the sermon he forgot,
The offertory went to pot,
He lost of cowrie shells a lot
To fill his purse all;
The benediction he pronounced,
And quickly from the pulpit bounced,
An outside meeting he announced,
A drees rehearsal.
With solemn face he took his stand,
A brand-new chemise in his hand,
And in a voice of stern command
And indignation,
With modestly-averted eyes,
The garment on the Queen be ties
Amidst a murmur of surprise
And admiration.
The King, with royal grace and mien,
Gazed on the interesting scene—
Tbe robing of his favourite Queen,
And downright chuckled,
And said—“ Dis nigger’s welly glad.
You takes urn now for wus or bad,
By golly 1 Massa Brown, you’s hid,
Ole hoss, you’re buckled.”
Dat am de custom oh de blacks
Dem niggers knows I spokes de facks,
Um wants no R’yal Marriage Acks,
Or sich white trashes.
You takes de ole gal in dat rig,
Dat am de will ob dis 'ere nig,
Or else we stews um like um pig—
And hash to hashes.
The Queensland Government, when sup-
pressing its slave trade, established a Court of Com-
pensation to make good any losses occasioned by
the return of islanders to their homes. Of course,
a f eip of claims have been sent in, and it seems
likely that the cost of tha “ return of the kid-
napped ’’expedition will be pretty nearly as high
as that of the idiotic N.S.W. goat-napping ditto.
It seems that the price of eboDyskin is a rather
variable one, for while the Colonial Sugar Com-
pany claim £6BOl for 92 returned islanders, or
£73 183. 3d. each, the Queensland Sugar Company
want £Bl for one Digger only. The easiest way
would have been to fix a price per pound for black
fl sh and blood, and “ compensate ” according to
we ght. In this way aDy amount of trouble
might have been saved.
This interesting little correction is from
the Melb. Herald:— “ln the announcement un-
der the head of the Soc’al Circle, of tbe marriage
of Miss ObbUson, it was incorrectly stated that
Mr. George Yaughan, of the Loch Vennacbar,
was the bridegroom. The fortunate man was Mr.
George Waghorn, of the Loch Sheil. The
bride was given away by her mother, and
not by Mrs. Mather, as stated.” We fancy the
next meetiag of Mr. George Vaughan and the
blushing bride will be rather an awkward one.
A 3 for the Herald reporter, we believe he is 10
days out and still goiDg.
Last week, Mr. Henry M'Quade, ex-
M.L.A., of Sydney, was sued by one Scott for
£167 6s. on account for fireworks supplied to de-
fendant, who did not appear personally. It was
alleged that the prices were exorbitant. Plaintiff
said that he took down the order in writing, and
djfendant was aware of the price to be charged
when the order was given. Judgment was given
for the full amount.—
Dr. John Quick, LL.D., who has been
elected two or three timts to represent Sandhurst
iq the v ictoriaa Assembly, has shown his adber?
tnce to Liberalism to be stronger than his desire
for oiHoe and its emoluments. He refused to
blindly follow the late Coalition Government in
the Parliament 'hat has just been dissolved in Vic-
toria, and when it was proposed to continue the
Coalition under different leaders he denounced
the proposal as loudly ss did Professor Pearson,
The leaders of the new Coalition Government
afterwards offered a portfolio to Dr. Quick, as well
as one to Mr. Pearson. But the former declined
and the latter accepted it. We think the youDg
barrister was right. No true Liberal should ever
coalesce with Conservatives, and particularly
under a Conservative leader when the Liberals are
in a vast majority throughout the country. Had
Dr. Quick joined the hybrid team that has
just been formed in the Southern colony, he
would have virtually committed political sui-
cide. He is a Democrat of the advanced type
and will yet be able to render useful work to tbe
Radical Party- He has brought out a capital book
in favour of.land nationalisation, waieh system he
thoroughly believes in ; he has written letters to
the press in condemnation of the brutal system of
flogging : he is an able exponent of the principles
of protection and payment of members, and has
always given an intelligent vote in favour of pro-
gressive measures. The way in wnieh he has
climbed the ladder augurs well for his future. Ten
years ago he was working hart carting quartz to
Kochs Pioneer Crushing works, near Sandhurst,
and was driving the engine at various claims.
Afterwards be j lined the staff of the A ge, and was
head-reporter on that newspaper at the time he
was iaduced to stand fortfce Assembly. He has
since c rried off high honours at the University,
a d has married the daughier of a riuh Benaigo
miner. His re election to the next Parliament is
considered to be a certainty, as he resides in the
city he represents, and receives the eupport of his
fel ow-count'yarn, ihe Victorian natives.
CRUEL.
It seems, ye gods, but yesterday
There was a mighty night parade,
And there went, surging down the Bay,
The cognomen of H, M'Quade.
Black darkness reigned; then there was light;
When suddenly there was displayed
By magic— tw«s a wondrous sight I
The name, in flre, of H. M'Quade.
The rockets shed their golden glow
(Off went the hungers-" who’s afraid ?”j
AH this to music soft and slow,
To glorify the great M'Quade I
Ah, 'twas a great and glorious day;
Yet from a dream he now does start;
For all that glory in the Bay—
That incense he has got to part.
Wolfe's Schnapps,- certified by the medical pro-
fession as the purtst spirit procurable.


SOCIAL
A gloriously mild afternoon tempted a
great number to attend Lady Carington's fourth
reception at wovarnment Sous*, Sydney, last
Wednesday afternoon-indeed the crowd wss so
, at " move on ” was a matter of no small
dimoulty. As usual, the Governor and Lady
it ar - ln ? to n received on the verandah, and did
their best to mase each individual believe that
they were really and truly glad to see them. If
a loot of weariness did overspread Lady CariDg-
ton s face during a short pause in the arrivals, it
was quid'sly and heroically dijpeiled by the
Sweetest of smiles when fresh names were an-
nounced. as for the ladies’ costumes there seems
just now to be an uncomfortable hesitancy be-
tween summer and early autumn attire, a Sort of
compromise between the two seasons as it were;
lor instance, occas oaally one would see a sum-
mery dress and a tie ivy headgear, and vice versa.
At the same time there were many consistent
costumes and scores of very handsome ones.
Lady Carington wore a soft white Otdaa sik,
small gauze bonnet, with pink rosebuds, long
suede glove?, and white parasol; Miss Harbord,
black and nvoite strioed silk dress, Dlack straw
witch-shaped hat trimmed with cream laceand pi ok
flowers; Mrs. Purvey a snuff coloured canvas dress
relieved by panels of exquhite electric blue
brocade—a striking and bappy combination; Miss
Gerty 1 ischer, a charmiDg uress of crimson, par-
tially veiled with ricn biscuit Jace flounces, cream
ace bonnet, touched with crimson; the Misses
rteid, black satin dresses; Mrs. McPhillamy, a very
handsome black costume, the front of bodice and
SKWt elaborately embroidered in jet; Mi is Halloran,
whits lawn dress, with small white bonnet iritnmed
with marguerites; Mrs Atkinson, brown canvas
costume and becoming bonnet; Madame Keller-
mann, white lawD, trimmed with embroidery and
blue satin ribbons, small white lace tippet and
bonnet en suite; Mrs. Belisario, rich black lace
dress and mantle, small black bonnet, relieved by
rose pink flowers; Miss Millie Thompson, a pretty
cream tambour muslin dress, with becoming Jace
bonnet to match; the Misses Atherton, peculiarly
plain but girlish-looking blue cotton costumes,
made with the new sleeves puffed above the elbow,
then tight to the wrists; Mrs. Paget-Bayly, a rich
black dress, relieved by a beautiful cluster of
purple convolvuli worn on the corsage; Mrs
Cohen, black dress, and large white bat
turned up with black velvet and trimmed
with white plumes ; Miss Lake, peach-
coloured silk dress, black-headed lace tippet
B ? ia » net bonDefc ornate with flowers; Miss
Madeline Lake, a similar dress and pure white
tulle bonnet; Mrs. flarrie Wood, pink dresn
trimmed with white lace; Miss Tessie Throck-
morton, pale blue and white striped crepe cloth,
and light bonnet; Mrs. Gullett, a beautiful cos-
tume of amber satin veiled with biack Spanish
laca, small high black bonnet and amber silk
neckerchief; Mrs .Addison, a stylish-looking black
and white costume; Mrs. Foreman, a tasteful
dress in fawn colour showered with brown.tufts;
Miss Harper, paie heliotrope silk and white lace;
Mrs, Sydney Want, pure white. A really gorge ">us
gown was a sky-blue broche adorned with cord,
tasse s, and most unheard-of furbelows; hat of
white net the front brim of which was turned up
in most peculiar manner and fastened to the
high crown. The effect was startling. The re-
freshment tables in the ballroom were well patro-
nised during the afternoon, and the Artillery
Band discoursed music of unusual excellence.
* * *
A happy little affair which had been talked
of forg#me time in Cootamundra eventuated on
Monday morning, the loth iast., when Mr. H A.
O’Donnell, solicitor, linked nis fortunes with
those of Mies Hettie Bccleston, youngest daughter
of the late H. I. Eeoieston, of Coonghoombula
Station, Monaro. The bride was prettily and
tastefully dressed, and was given away by her
cousin, Mr. N. A. Byrne, J.P., of Cootamundra,
whilst the last offices for the baehelordom of the
groom were entrusted to Mr. J. M. Grosvenor
accountant of the local branch of the City Bank.
The sister of the bridegroom Ailed the part of
bridesmaid-in-chief. Alter entertaining their
guests at Keira, their future home, the wedded
pair left by train for Wagga Wagga.
*
The suburbs on the Illawarra railway line
prove attractive to Sydneyites in more ways than
inland sales. Arnciiffe, bn the afternoon of the
li'tb, was the scene of a double event in tne
shape of the marriages of the Misses Gavina F. and
Margaret T., daughters of Mr. Alex. M. Fell. J P„
the well-known oil manufacturer, to Mr. William
Napier, of Sydney, and Mr. Ernest C. Carter, of
Melbourne, respectively. The ceremonies were
performed at Meryton, the residence of the brides’
parents, by the Rev. M. Vale, of Newcastle, and
the Rev. Mr. Paten, of Petersham, the Misses Fell
and Ogden acting as bridesmaids to Miss Fell, and
Misdes Kidd and Addie Fell doing like service for
Miss Maggie. The dresses of the brides were of
c earn Sitin with the usual bridal wreaths,
bouquets, &c. At th 9 breakfast, tne toas's were
rece.vad with all the more enthusiasm on account
of there being few. and amid an unstinted shower
of rice and old leather, the happy quartette took
their departure for tne Mountains. A goodly
number of friends from Sydney and suburbs
arrived by train in time for the ball, which was
given at Meryton in the evening.
• * 9
On Thursday evening, the llth instant,
the memhe sof the O. B Society, Brawarrina, en-
tertained Mr. S. Graham, accountant of the Com-
mercial Bank (prior to nis departure, in conse-
quence of his promotion to head office), to a dance.
Why these good people should choose this method
of showing their good feeling to Mr. Graham, is a
mystery. Fancy dancing with the thermometer
registering 100' in the shade!
* * *
The marriage of Miss Eleanor Suttor,
of Wyagdon, Bathurst, and Mr. W. Browne,
manager of the Commercial .Bank, Maitland, will
take place early in April.
* * *
Recently at Perth ( W.A.), the marriage of
Mr. J, C. H. James, Commissioner of Land Titles
for Western Australia, late of the Oxford Circuit,
with Miss Rebecca C. Clifton, eldest daughter of
Mr. Charles W. Clifton, Registrar-General, created
some little excitement. Tne wedding took place
at 3 o’clock, the Right Rev. W. W. Parry, D.D ,
Bishop of officiating. The bride wore a
artes of creatr satiu and lace, long plain train, and
tull ) veil, the two bridesmaids wore costumes of
blush-pink, with coffep-lace hats turned up with
cardinal velvet, coffee-lcce and blush-pink
f ;athers, shoes, hose, and gloves to match. The
bridegroom was attended by the Hon. J icelyne
Amhurst and Mr R B. Burnside. The nouoymoon
was spent at Guildford.
* * *
It is quite true that Miss Laura Throck-
morton is engaged to Captain Terry, A.D.C. It is
also rumoured that her sister has promised her
hand to k gentleman residing at Vaucluse. Stilt
more and more ?
• ■ •
An extremely simple and quiet wedding
took place at St. James’ Cathedral, Victoria, ac
2.30 o’clock on the 8 h or February, between Miss
.agues Monaghan, only daughter of Mr. James
Monaghan, of Sydney, N.S W, and Mr. Charles
Browne, of Meloourne. 'J he* bride who was given
away by her father, wore an exceedingly pretty
dress of white embroidered musnn with straw
bonnet trimmed with white and white feather
aigrette tioped with gold. A number of very
handsome presents were received, amongst which
were two very valuable gifts, one from Messrs.
Rosenthal, Aronsoo, and Co., in whose firm the
bridegroom has long been, and one from his fellow
employes. The honeymoon was spent at Lome.
Browne’s travelling costume was a beauti-
fully fitting, tailor-made gown of grey with toque
to match.
* * *
It was a delicious balmy night when the
first moonlight concert was held at Ashfleld tte-
creation Ground, and over 300 people) attended,
-ine volunteer band played, and a party of gentle-
men sang glees, but toe cone irt per se, was not a
pretentious one, and the caarm of the evening
was the novelty and freedom of the affair, where
everybody smoked or chatted about the trim
grounds in the quiet moonlight. Not a breath
of wind stirred, and everyone regretted that some
ladies voices were not enrolled in the list of
singers, as the perfect stillness was favourable to
sound, and the oand could be plainly heard over a
mile away. In the members’ pavilion billiards
were played, while all round the ground—where
little parties sat on the seats and “talked soft’
lanterns were suspended. Tae stand was also
lively with coloured lanterns-to say nothing of
popping corks, and the whole scene verged on the
romantic. Lots of ladies were present, and if the
marriage rate doesn’t rise in Ashfleld it will be
funny to us.
* * *
Dr. W. A. West, of Derby House, Glebe
f'oint, said jjgood-bye to his; uachelorhood Jast
Wednesday weeir, when he espoused Misi Taylor,
ot Terrible Vale. The bonny bride wore a dress
cr cream silk, trimmed with rich lace, aud was
givea away by her brother. Alter the breakfast,
most of the company amused themselves at lawn-
tennis and cricket, and the newly-wedded pair
took their departure at 5 o'clock. A dance was
given in the evening, which lasted till daybreak.
* * v
A quiet wedding took place at St. John’s,
Dirlingburst, on the 19th inst., when Miss May,
tmrddaughter of Mr. E. J. Acker, was married to
Mr. W. A. Gardiner, eldest son of J. A. Gardiner,
Goboleou, Wellington. The bridal gown was of
handsome Ivory satin and duchesse lace, and the
four bridesmaids, who were sisters of the bride
and bridegroom, wore pretty white lace dresses
and carnea horse-shoe bouquets. Honeymoon at
Melbourne.
• * *
Last Thursday evening a pleasant enter-
tainment was given in tne Morpeth School of
Arts, by the local Dramatic and Minstrel Com-
pany, the proceeds being in aid of the Institution.
* * *
Harry Leston, the well-known comedian,
was married on the 17th iDst., to Miss Florence
Rouse, third daughter of Mr. Henry Rouse, of
KouseviUe, Red Head. The bride wore a nice
white Japanese silk dress, trimmed with white
silk embroidery, and was attended by three brides-
maids. A musical entertainment was given in the
evening at the residence of the bride’s uncle, after
which the happy pair left Newcastle for Sydney.
Sydney, Wednesday.
My Dhar Belle,—Just as I expected, the
Londoners are dreadfully shocked at the news of
poor Mrs. Sala’s sudden death out here amongst
us. I well remember the last time I saw her. It
was at the house of a mutual friend, where we had
met to partake of high tea and spend the evening.
I fancy I see her no w, as she reclined on an easy
chair and chatted so pleasantly to us all. Of
course you are aware she was handsome, and
knew how to dress, too. How proudly she spoke
of her home in Mecklenburgh Square, London,
and how little she ever dreamed then that she
would never see it again 1 She told us that
sne was quite pleased with us colonials ;
in fact, she thought us nearly as nice as
Americans. The nearly wasn't very palatable to
us, you may be sure, but as sae evidently
meant_ it as very high praise, indeed,
we did our best to take it as such.
Quite content with ;the way me world used her,
proud of her home, and perfectly satisfied that her
husband had no peer, no wonder the amiable lady
so well preserved her good looks. Poor Mr. Salal
I wonder who will pour out his tea for him now.
for you know, dear, he is as fond of that innocent
beverage as Dr. Johnson used to be —six cups at a
meal being quite moderate in his eyes. Ah, well,
I suppose nothing but time will soften his grief,
but at all events he has our very deepest
sympathy.
There has really been nothing doing this week,
with the exception of a few dinner parties and
the reception. Perhaps you will not be sorry to
hear that there is a retorm now in progress re-
lating to dinners. Instead of the numberless
courses hitherto deemed indispensable, leaders of
society permit four plats only, isow, won’t
this be much nicer ? I consider it absolutely sin-
ful to spend nearly two hours at a time eating
and drinking, and ir’s not only the waste of time I
object to, but one would need to possess the
digestive powers of an ostrich to stand—say three
ot these elaborate dinners a week with impunity.
Then, again, have you never experienced what a
dreadful punishment it is to be placed next to a
man wno hasn’t two ideas in his bead, and who, at
the same time, is so oppressively attentive
that life during that dinner is one big tiresome
burthen. As I have been a martyr to this bore-
dom more than once I am able to speak feelingly
on the subject, and must confess that I, for my
part, hail with joy and gladness the dinner of four
courses instead ot eight-which means a saving of
nearly a whole hour.
I have simply nothing to tell you about the last
reception, excepting that the male element was
prt-tty strong, and that ladies’ dress-sleeves were
worn so iisnt that one lady’s elbow actually burst
through. Ic wasn’t a pretty soft wnite dimpled
elbow, else it mightn’t have mattered so much. A
red bocy elbow isn’t by any means an attractive-
looking article, aud I should advise ladies possess-
ing such to get their dressmakers to allow them
more elbow room ia their sleeves. Talking of re-
ceptions. I mmt not forget to tell you that a few
of our leading sno os here are doing tneir best to
persuade Lady Carington to receive only a chosen
few on her reception days, aad we were all won-
dering where the line is to be drawn. I should
fancy this “ sifting-out” business will be rather a
trouolesome job, and if too much “ niceness "
is shown in the selection e am afraid
very little ©f toe pure stuff will remain,
and it is not at all unlikely that the;e arrogant
o n s who are so fearful of contamination with
“vulgar peopie who earn their living honestly”
win be tta mstlves left out in the cold. Perhaps
Lady Cirlngton will Suowa preierenee for ladies
of gentle and honourable descent (even should
their banking accounts amount to very little), and
not devote nerself exclusively to the "first
families” of JN.ri.W. Such fastidiousness on
the part of Lady Carington will surely
tell against these kusy bodies, who will,
no doubt, wish they had been content to let mat-
ters rest. By the way, several of these injured
ones gave themselves away entirely by absenting
themselves from the last reception, but it was
comforting to see that their non-appearance failed
to make Lady Carlngton the least hit unhappy.
Professor Bulteau, who gave a lecture last night
at Newtown, doesn’t believe in women beiDg too
learned. He remarks that nearly all women of
literary note look worn, sad, and tired. He
avers that the female brain is unequal to
the strain, and it is simply ambition which
tempts a woman to go for University
honours and the like. In his own experience
young ladies who have worked during the term
with far more patience and industry than any man,
have been so utterly prostrated at the end of the
period that they have been simply iucipable of
anything further and have been compelled to give
up the light for a time, if not for good, their poor
brains being completely over-taxed. He does not
say that women should be brought up as ignorant
tools—far from it, for what sort of companions
would they make in that case for husbands or
brothers? But he does say that the University
cramming, so far as females are concerned, is a
mistake. Wei), now, that s all right. As long as
we are convinced that it is really out of concern
for our welfare that the men object to our intrud-
ing on their ground, I am certain we shall not feel
so bad about it. It is only when they say a girl
must be wanting in modesty because she pores
over books that are only fit for themselv s. that
we suspect their objection to learned women is
only the result of jealousy Jest she proves her-
self their equal in brain-power. But it just
shows how we are apt to misjudge men’s
motives—bless their dear hearts! Fancy our
being so angry with them all this time be-
cause they wanted to exclude us from their Uni-
versities when their chief motive in so doing was
their concern lest we should become old, worn
and ugly—not to say ill-tempered—betore our
time. It makes me think that they do really
care for us a little bit—or, can it be that they prefer
well-ordered households and weli-cooked dinners
to wives who are continually writing essays, and
can’t tell a grilled chop from a fried one? For
my part, dear, although I may admire, I nearly
always fear a blue-stocking, they are amongst the
most aggreseive things I know, and I generally
eontiive to give them a wide berth, but, of course,
that’s probably due to my incapacity to compre-
hend their learned talk. Yes, I think I can say I
agree with Professor Bulteau that too much learn-
ing for the ordinary woman is a mistake, unless, of
course, she possess the powers of a George band,
Madame de Stael, or a George Eliot.
Are you glad to hear that the old fashioned
two-buttoned glove is being favoured again ? I
should have received the news with joy had I taken
my dear prudent cousin’s advice some time back
and bought up a few dozens of these articles which
have been selling here in all the shops for next to
nothing, ever siuce the Sara Bernhardt glove same
in. I thought I knew best and fancied the long
glove would live as long as I should, but it just
shows you what a foolish, improvident creature
your humble servant is. However, we shall be
compelled to wear Jinen cuffs again now, and that
I really like, for it gives such a nice finish to one’s
dress, doesn't it ?
Ever yours,
MAB.
Mr. J. P. Garvan has for the fourth time
succeeded in smashing a Ministry. The Parkes,
Stuart, Dibbs, and Robertson Caoinets have all
been shattered by his motions. Garvan, the
Cabinet-breaker.
Te Sydney Echo, a pious little paper
which is quite an authority on theological mat-
ters, thinks the people of St. John's Church, Tam-
worth, a stiff-necked race because they wouldn t
stand up when Bishop Turner came into church.
Certainly not, why should they ? What’s the use
of people paying rent for sittings” in a church
if tney can’t Bit down in them ? Besides, if stand-
ing up is a kind of mark of respect to a bishop
they’d have to stand on the seats for an arch-
bishop, while nothing but stilts would do when a
cardinal came along.
Alcohol is not the only foreign body used
by frail humanity to procure an exemption, even
temporary, from the ills that flesh is heir to.
Chloral has had its day and its victims. Cocaine
is the new anaesthetic, and it lulls into a fool s para-
dise without, however, producing sleep. But it
has its drawbacks. At night the cocainist ‘‘sees
snakes,” hobgoblins, djins, ghosts, and demons,
who come in through keyholes, down chimneys
under doors.
Only fancy what N.B.W. will suffer if the
jaynil Dan. loses his “Victoria Cross of public
life.” The Evening News says that the arrange-
ments made for an earlier delivery of letters in
Sydney will most probably fall through if Dan.
‘ retires from the administration of the Postal
Department.” If any arrangements have been
made we suppose the next man in can see them
carried out; and if he doesn’t, won’t Dan be able to
do a war dance on the flure of the House, and teli
us all about them ? Anyway the News has struck
a new line in advertising a man’s claims to be a
Minister of the Crown.
Startling indeed are the tidings which are
flashed along from time to time to Sydney by
those intellectual giants in the country, who eke
out a precarious existence by combining the sister
arts of half-soleing and heeling, and corresponding
for the Evening News. Seriously, 'twas but the
other day we were paralysed to hear through the
telegraphic medium of that valuable “Jernel’
that tne bellman at Tamworth had a lit, and to-
day wo are knocked silly with admiration for the
Mudgee genius who wires—“ Mr. Robert Cohen
died on Monday. Tne deceased was of the Jewish
persuasion.” This, of course, will put the Tinpot
Swamp Reuter on his mettle, and we fully expect
to find our next garfish speculation wrapped in a
Nooze which says Patrick O Rourke com-
mitted suicide by swallowing a glass of undiluted
water to-day. Deceased was supposed to be of
Irish extraction, and there is no foundation for
the rumour that he was a scion of the Bourbon
family. The person named Quong Soong Bee,
who was found camped near a fence minus bis
head on Tuesday last, proves to have been a
Chinaman, and suspicion rests on one Hans
Schlausenheimerfrundenpouf, wholis believed to
be a German.”
At the Sydney Metropolitan Quarter Ses-
sions Court, on the 17th inst., Mr.T. to. Williamson,
attorney for a prisoner, was examining a witness
as to the nature of an oath, when his Honor
Judge Forbes interjected. “ Wbat nonsense,” and
the following conversation ensued:—“Mr. Wil-
liamson: ‘Surely, your Honor, I can ask the wit-
ness whether she Knows where she will go to when
she dies if she tells a lie?’ His Honor: ‘Do you
Know?' Mr. Williamson: *Oh 1 well.’ His Honor:
‘ 1 don't think you do, or any one else.’ Mr. Wil-
liamson: ‘But the law allows us to anticipate.’
His Honor: * You would be satisfied, I suppose, if
the child said, “If I tell the truth I shall go to
heaven, and if I tell a lie I shall go to hell.” ’ Mr.
Williamson: ‘ Yes.’ His Honor: ‘lt is all clap-trap
—absurd.’ The attorney abandoned the question.’
Judicial friend, Forbes,
Your late judgment absorbs ’
Us in deep and profound meditation;
May we now enquire
What’s the lot of the liar
And his last and right-through destination?
We anticipate
By the law, that his fate
Will be hot in the sultry for ever ;
His case, then, the worst
And his main trouble thirst,
When he crosses the brimstone-banked river.
But you, legal light,
On this point set us right
And, of course, you, learned brother, should
know—there
We’ll argue no more,
From the evergreen shore
You can wire us his fate whe© you go there.
The original genuine article-* Wolfe’s Schnapps.
■ HOW ROOMS.
Jgl DBNIIUII
BRADLEY, NEWTON. tad LAMB.
O Connell tad Spr l streets, Sydney.
H
FURNITUKi*, HATSTANDb, ITS
ASSORTMENT. *
CHAIRS, LARGE
T IBRARY FURNIT ORE, CENTRE
Jj TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES
READING and LOUNGE CHAtRS. Ki3 >
Drawing-room suites, m
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice ObingT
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley
Newton, and Lamb. *
Novelties in boudoir and bow window"
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various* woods
and very handsome design®, with 7-fmi
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for sinvie
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
IGI IGMT-PO UND BEDROOM
JD4 Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dress! ag table am-t
glass, and two chairs. The lot for MS. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
EDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early Ens-jjsh
Designs) .—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble to
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TAB
CHEAP FURNITURE,—Pine Tables, from IQs
6d.; Dining TablesL from 305.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 375. 6d.; Washstands from 13s. 6d •
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80s’’
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Sideboards’
from £3105.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets
—— strong, and durable, Trichord full
impass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Case. Free at rail or wharves for cash only,
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also In Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs; also elegantly finished in
Embroidery, Plush, &c.
FHHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
O Connell-str eet.
NAMELLED and JEWELLED MIRRORS, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
elegant BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell-street.
RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES,
ces, from 13s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
I)
Prioi
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
penslve, Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
OILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
"CIULL SUITES for DINING-ROOM —SIDE-
Jj BOARD, DINNER WAGGON. TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAINS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-street.
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 30 feet.
D
[ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR—
Patented.
SB*
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It Is simple, yet ingenious In Its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when ft ided. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing In canvas. If required,
3s. 6d. extra.
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH for
‘ INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
AGATELLB BOARDS, Portable. Variovfl
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
S
B
IRAMEWORJf for DRAWING-ROOM SUITE!
’ ~~~ * 1 ‘ ” "HAIRS.—A very exten
iendale c Early English
—, „—— can be upholstered ii
any materials to meet the taste and requirement!
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
XiIRAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI
TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak
F 1 and OCCASION AL~CHAIRS.—A very exten'
sive assortment in Chippt * ’ -
and other designs, which t
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and bras
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Laml
BEDDING. —All descriptions at lowest rates
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con
aell and Spring streets.
ABHSTANDB, with marble, from 355. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
AWN and PARK SEATS 6 feet long. Rustii
_l Cast-iron Standards, 15s. each. Bradley. New
>n, and Lamb.
B
W
k
B
ENT WOOD FURNIT URE.—A very csomplstl
AMQrtmsnt; bait maki. ion oat p riots,


Woman Items
a medical journal says that, from WBO to
out of 35 (che total number) of women physi-
cians in England, eight were placed in lunatic
asylums. Wonder how these embryo lunatics in-
fluenced the death rates I
THE HOT SYDNEY SUMMER.
We loved a girl in winter time,
Her name was Angelina Glayde;
We cannot love her now, for she’s
T >o economically made.
This is some of what the Sydney Free
thinkers demand:—“We demand full religious,
nnlitical, and social liberty for woman, that she
Jnav become tbe emancipated companion of man.
We shall never support this; at least, not till the
price of arnica goes down.
She wasn’t young, although she had the
skittishness of youth, and she was trying t > maeli
a vouthful squatter, whose puny figure compared
uisftdvantageously with her magnificent physique,
as displayed to full advantage six nights a week
before tne footlights. “You know,’' She archly
said "everybody pets and coddles me. You can t
imagine how much my parents made of me. ’ I
don’t know about that,” he replied, meditatively;
ii T should say about fourteen it one seven was the
figure ” And if she can do him an ill turn one of
these days it’s a million to a pinch of snuff on the
grey mare.
An English fashion paper says:—“The
bustle is coming to the front more rapidly than
ever” This is so. In any of the quieter streets
about Sydney you will constantly see two or three
girls stop and look all around to see that no one
much is about, then they lean oaraiols up against
the wall and take turns in fixing one another s
bustle—pulling it straight and tying it fres*, and
maybe tucking in a long tape that has been trailing
all down tne street. Then, when everything has
been reefed in nicely and the whole concern put
dead aft, you will see the girls give a little self-
approving shake and start off to do the block
again. Oh, yes, bustles are coming to the front in
spite of all the appliances that have been invented
to anchor them in the proper locality.
Lady Randolph Churchill is young and
pretty, and the Baroness Burdett Coutts is old
and ugly. Lady Randolph »as recently canvass-
ing for the Baroness Burdett-Coutts’ husband,
whose maiden name was Mr. Ashmead Bartlett,
and she met at dinner an influential Westminster
elector. Tnis gentleman was susceptible,-and had
ia recollection such generous beauties of old
time as Georgiana, Duchess of Devonshire, who
kissed the butcher to get his vote. “You must
vote for Mr. Burdett-Coutts,” said Lady Randolph
Churchill. “ Well,” he replied, with a worshipping
glanoe, “I can’t promise; but if I were treated as
voters used to be treated oy the canvassers in the
old days, I should possibly give in.” “ Oh, thank
you so much,” cried his fair and ready inter-
locutor; “I will let the Baroness know at once.”
In hussia, says Madame Greville, women
are not regarded as equals. Tbe peasant expects
his wife to plough, to harvest, to work like a beast
of burden. This would be comparatively nothing
if they were well treated and loved. Thei r husbands
do love them, but in a peculiar fashion. For the
first two or three days after tbe wedding thin gs go
on very well, lhat is, while families are exchang-
ing their visits. After that, the husband hea’s his
wife. And if he does not beat her, she thinks it is
because he does not rove her. Once, when I was
there, a girl who had been married only 10 days
came to me with her mother, and begged me to use
my influence with the newly-made husband. They
wanted me to make him beat the girl, according to
her situation as a wife. It was a long time before
I understood the reason. I found that it was
founded on jealousy. If a husband is not jealous,
he does not beat his wife; and if he is not jealous,
he does not love her.
Mrs. Langtry, at the recent private view
of the Grosvenor Gallery, looked charming, as,
indeed, she ever does. One thing about her which
always “fetches” one ij her brightness. She Is
always laughing, and her smile is like sunshiae, it
positively breathes happiness. To some morbid
souls it is probably aggressively bright; but, as a
general rule, her brightness must be more than
half her charm, because her beauty, whioh is
wonderful, would not account for all her popu-
larity, or for the intense pleasure which it gives
one just to see her. She wore a vtr/ 'magnificent
mantle of sealskin trimmed with otter, covering
her from head to foot. Her hat was of gold em-
broidery on brown, and was trimmed with sable.
It was a toque, high, but not too high. Her hair
was simply tied behind, and allowed to fall in the
Prettiest, simplest way imaginable. She dresses
herself very perfectly; in a style sufficiently
original to be characteristic, and yet never with a
shade of anything like ostentation.
A Bill giving the franchise to women has,
the cable tells us, passed its second reading in the
House of C munoDS Which reminds one that the
reason why the Viotorian Parliament gives so much
attention to the wrongs of barmaids, and the dis-
comforts of factory girls, &r., is that thinking
people in the colony see that they are rapidly
approaching a time when women will rule the
position. For while there are in N S.W. 100,415
marriageable men to 84 370 marriageable women,
there are in Victoria only 99 867 marriageable men
to 119,378 marriageable women. Or, while there
are ia Victoria to every 10 000 single men 11,054
single women among whom they may chc se,
there are to that number of single men in N.S.W.
only 8390 single women, in Queensland only 6158
and in Western Australia only 5575, or nearly two
men to each woman. The Victorian Government
statist says that women would appear to hwe a
Bmaller chance of getting marijel in Vlctoriathan
in any other Australasian colony. A 8 dney paper
anticipates that when women shall have become
• bosses” of the politicU situetlon, a Reform Bill
will be introduced to deprive men of tha fran-
chise.
Mr. E R. Cole, of George-street, Sydney,
has published a neat and most acceptable shilling
volume of “sensational” tales by the late Ma cus
Clarke.
A public apology appeared in a Limericlc
Paper the other day, signed “ Michael Barry, his
Mark.” iu the presence of the “ honorary secre-
tary,” of the local branch of the National League,
expressing his deep regret ior hating recently in-
advertently carried to the railway station a bag
belonging to the agent of Lord Dunraven.
“ Pro Be no Publico,” a correspondent of
the Sydney D.T , saysj—“ The vibration caused by
travelling over wood-blocks in a vehicle is irritat-
ing, and is, as my doctor informs me, most in-
jurious to the nervous system and spinal column,
and if continued for any lergth of time would, no
doubt, bring on paralysis Since WiHiam-stree*-,
for instance, has been psved the co stant driving
®ver them has shook mj nerves terribly.” Dearboy,
It has alsosfroon: your grammar. B d grammar,
preceding complete aphasia, is one ot the strongest
indications of approaching paralysis. We strongly
recommend Kirbv, wfro givertises in The Bul-
letin, for new plumes, proper palls, and moderate
charges.
Wolfe’s Schnapps stimulates the liver.
BY FLOOD AND FIELD .
Friend Larry, the ring e’en in these cul-
tured days bas some one to warble a line in its
praise. What matter though Heonau and Sayers
be dead, and Lang ham's game spirit to Heaven has
lied-the grit that waved proudly the ‘‘birds
vye”of yore, is still in our country as their’sto
the fore. So let us step into the 16-foot ring, and
bang on your knocker the song we would sing.
Shall we chirrup a line in the praise of Bob Fee, or
tell how Long Sandy “ done ” Billy Magee ? Shall
we call old Tom Curran to step to tho front, and
tell us how Bellars with him bore the brunt of a
long fist encounter (no gloves in thoss days) I Aye,
Larry, since then “ pugs.” have altered their
ways: no fights now as then for a fiver aside when
into the air flew skid, gristle, and hide. No four
hours’ bold struggle to see who was best, but
three minutes’ fightiDg and one minute's rest
But what sort, old pal, why thus chirrup in song
the deeds of the game ’uns, the clever and strong ?
Mat. Hardy, M'Laren, Joe KitcheD, that push,
those “ goats” hid their light in a gooseberry bush,
but you, game as gljc’rine, fronting us stano,
and as you can licit us, wny, Lawrence, your hand!
But singing is dry work, and, Larry, suppose we
jerk up the metre and drop into prose. On Satur-
day night, at Foley s Gymnasium, George-street,
Sydney, there was a “ critical audience ” (see
daily papers) towitnessthekaocking-out matches,
t he spectators were a cutured (not agrieuitured)
lot, and enjoyed the Olympian games as much, if
dot more so, than had each indivdual onlooker
been thare and shown how dexterously (joae) and
deftly he could guard his front. We felt that way,
but Law, our front - [W 11 you kindly tell us what
happened on Saturday night— Bd. fi] The draw
of the evening was a match between Seale and
the Bogan champion. We were on the Bogan
years ago, when a glass of water was worth a
shilling, and a glass of (excised, no duty) worth a
sovereign’s tenure of a crown, and we know any
man who wants to be champion of the Bogan can
be so. Tnere were only two waiting when we
lbf t, and the other had got bald-headed, waiting for
a chance to “ cop” the “companionship.” We are
glad he left first, else we had got the belt, and tne
belting which he got on Saturday night. But—
the opening struggle was between Prof. H. M.
Cansdell and a pair of Indian clubs, in which the
former had decidedly the best of a well-contested
battle. Fuller and Smith (late Carington)—but
fat Fuller’s earth was too good lor the
Lord’s Kingdom, and when the four rounds were
finished the Lord’s namesake had gone all to pieces
—the Smith was as myth. Nolan and Mackay
fought a good show fight. No one was hurt
except Cansdell (Nolan trod on his toe), and when
they retired M Kenna and Magnus had a turn-up—
a sort of turn up and let us fight, you know—a
salad encounter in which neither had tbe best of
it, thouirh both men had the advantage at the
finish. [Of retiring without the ambulance he
means.—Bd B] Then followed the fight of the
evening. Seale, a fair-haired, hazel-eyed youth
with a melancholy expression and a long reach,
met the Bogan champion. The man from the
Bogan, who had lived on locusts and wild honey,
whale’s blubber and shark’s teeth, and chewed the
ears off native dogs for fun, was “ on the worry,”
but tbe native was “on the shot" r.” The shoul-
der is the ticket, after all—it carries weight. Seale
had two shoulders and two arms, and thrice armed
for-
Thrice is he armed who hath his quarrel j ust,
But put up gilt on him whose left nand's “fust.”
After Jack Thompson announced the winner the
audience retired, and will not hold their cheek
tickets good at Foley’s till next Saturday night.
Till then, boys, allons.
• * *
The high northerly wind on Saturday last
raised an even worse dust storm than usual on the
road to the Canterbury (Sydney) Race Club meet-
ing. We have before pointed out the mistake
made by the committee in starting the first raca
at half-past 1 o’clock, and we believe a big im-
provement could be made in the attendance by
starting the sport at an hour which would give the
general public a chance of reaching the ground in
time for the beginning. Young Kelso, on Elling-
ton in the February Handicap, had his first mount
since his unfortunate accident in George-street.
The Opeoing Handicap set the ball roiling, a d
was won by Leumeah, Speculation half a length
away Eecond, Surry third. Sawdust started
favourite for the Selling Race, at 5 to 4, but she
was compelled to play second fiddle to At ista, who
won in a canter by 10 lengths Leumeah made a
second win in the February Handicap, which she
secured with a length to the good from Roobie.
Activity won the Sapling Stakes by a lengtn from
Mia Mia; and a day’s good racing was brought to
a close by Kingston appropriating the Welter
Handicap from Roobie by half a length. Amongst
th? jockeys, Fielder and English divided the cake
by a couple of wins each.
.* * *
Since last writing, a change has come o’er
the constitution of the N.S.W. Eight-oar crew,
the ever-popuiar M.R.C. man, Mr. S. H. Martin
haviag finally decided that business matters will
preolude him from taking a thwart—or perhaps,
in these days of sliding scats, we would be more
correct in sayiog a seat in the boat. This will
prove a great knock to the crew, as Mr Martin >s
one of the best oarsmen N.S.W. can produce. By
some means a rumour was started in the city list
week that Mr. Webster would take his place, but
we can safely say there is no truth in the report
At the time of writing, we cannot hear anything
definite as to who tbe eighth man will be, but in ali
probability Mr. J. A. Brodie will take the vacant
place—and very properly, too, for his performance
with an oar have shown him worthy of inclusion
in any crew, l’he crew last week, with Mr.
Martin, did a spin in good form, and they are
booked for practice this week, but unfortunately
too late for notice in this Usue.
* * *
The proposed meeting between Foley and
Newton has “gone burg,’ and this is the la&t that
will be heard about the affair—at least, so far as th's
journal is concerned. Foley has now given way
in every point, with the exception of promi.-iog
not to hurt his opponent, and Newton has shown
he is nottoba drawn. Newton has made a point
of Foley declining to sign tbe articles and forward
them to Melbourne, hut Foley "put up” the
money with J. D. Young, and the “sugar ’ is tbe
binding point about these matches, for without it
the article! are not worth the paper they are
written on. The old-time saying amougst sports-
men of ’* put up, or shut up,” is expressive, if not
elegant, and we strong y commend it to Mr New-
ton’s notice. If the Melbournian meant business,
Foley’s offer of £lOO to Newton it the Victorian
proved victorious, or £5O even in the event of
Newton's defeat, would have been fairly snapped
up. Hereendeth the Foley-Newton controversy.
* * *
Those dashing and venturtsome sports-
men, the Sydney Association Lawn-Tennis team,
paid Newcastle a visit on Saturday last, when they
engaged a local team in the deadly B‘rife. The
game was of an unusually rough and brutal
character, but the Sydney mm were not to be
denied, and won by 16 sets to 4. a -id 104 games to
go. So far the banks have not issued «n order to
tie effect that lawn-tennis players injured during
play will not be kept in the Infirmary at the
banks’ expanse, as was recently given forth in the
case of the footballers, but after Saturday s reck-
less play v e should not be surprised to hear sor e
suoh course had bean adopted.
* * *
Last week when we gave it as our opinion
that no handicap in reason would bring the Electra
on an equality with the Waitangi, we little
thought we shou d so soon have to eat our words.
For tne rate for a 1 yachts in connection with the
Prince Allred Yacht Ciub, sailed over a couise
from the French buoy at Neutral Bay, round the
R.S.Y.S. buoy at Manly, round thark Island, Fort
Denison, L’gbt-ship, Sow and Pigs, Shark Is and,
and back to Hagboat off Fort Macquarie, the fol-
lowing yachts put in an appearance:-The Wai-
tangai, 21 tons, Mr, A. G. Milson, scratch; Sirocco,
10 tons, Mr. E. W. Knox, 9m. 14?.; Electra, 21 tons,
Mr. J. F. Fitzhardinge, 10m. 385.; Assegai, 6 tons,
Mr. G.F, Murnin, 16m. 205.; Tritonia, 4 tons, Mr.
Mr. F. Ward, 22m. 44s ; Ruby, C tons, Mr. A.
A. Griffiths, 25m. The handicap was by the
new Sail-area classification, which, by the way,
does not appear to iind favour with the yacht
owners. The race was virtually between he
Waitangiaud Electra, as the other yachts one by
one carried away or drooped out or the race. A
regui.r nlack-un from the northward stood the
Plectra in good stead with her small sails, and she
led round shark Islaad the second time, but in the
run home the Waitangi passed and finished
ssec. ahead of the yawl, whicn tastes the prize on
time allowance.
m * *
The smaller fry were hard at it also on
Baturday. The Balmain Sailing Club had a handi-
cap for half-deckers, 20ft. and 22ft. Tne race
proved particularly lively, as the Triton and
Elaino capsized, the Clytie tilled up to the thwarts,
and the Buttercup throwing up the sponge, left
the Nereus and Genesta to fight it out to the bitter
end. The little clipper Nereus had to allow the
Genesta half a minute, but the last named took the
lead from the start, and out-sailing her rival, won
bysomeSmin. The Genesta is George Ellis’last
creation, to the order of Mr. Cameron, and on
Saturday last was steered to her victory by her
builder, who may be congratulated upon showing
the way to the hitherto invincible Nereus. Mr.
Cameron has, no doubt, named his little clipper
alter the yacht which recently went over from
England to dj battle in America Genesta is the
scientific na ne for the common broom piant. Mr
Cameron ii evidently tired of the seas sweeping
over his old love, the Sophia, and is going to try
and sweep the seas with his 20-footer, He has
begun well.
¥ * *
A big crowd put in an attendance at the
Agricultural Ground on Saturday last, wbe.-:
Malone and O’Brien met lor £lO3 and the cham-
pionship over three distances—half-mile, 1000yds.,
three-quarters of a mile. Malone won the first
two events and the match with the greatest ease
in 2min., and 2min. 24sec. respectively. O’Brien
was unable to extend the winner. We understand
the committee of the ground have not quite agreed
with their secretary in the holding of a pro-
fessional race meeting on the grouad. This is
rather rough on the secretary, who has worked
like a nigger to put some money in the hands of
the society. In England agricultural grounds are
much favoured by pedestrians, and we cannot see
what objection can hold against foot-racing if
carried out under proper management. As the
Botany track is now prepared and in good order,
it is probable the committee will have no need to
discuss the question. We cannot compliment the
managers of Saturday's sport on their arrange-
ments.
♦ * *
The proposed races between the English
and American runners, George and Smith, are
“ off.” Myers states he is unwilliDg to give up
either his amateur standing, or his membership in
the Manhattan Athletic Club Amateurs’ lines
do not fall in pleasant places when ihey change
their status to that of professional. George re-
ceived a good drubbing in his line; and Robinson,
who was amateur champion boxer of the Olympic
Club, ’Frisco, made his debut as a pro., and re-
ceived a drubbing from Joan L. Sullivan at one
and the same time.
cs»* 6H &
“ Blood will tell.” Young Hammer Lane,
a nephew of the celebrated pugilist of that name,
recently fought Jack Dodd with the ” raw’uns.”
near Birmingham. “ Hammer " proved his sob-
riquet was no misnomer, as he smashed two of
Dodd's ribs with a right-hander after fighting 61
minutes.
• • ■
From the N.Y. Herald “ The yacht
Galatea’s challenge for the ‘ America ’ Cup having
been accepted, Mr. Edward Burgess, of Boston,
the designer of Puritan, has made arrangements
for the building of a new yacht for General Payne,
whica, it is expecte , will be the defender of the
cup. Her modelling is something like that of
the Puritan, but she is to be finer at entrance.
Her beam will bs 22 3-10 ft.—the same as the Puri-
tan-and she will also have the same measurement
outside. Her ballast will be about 27 tons. Her
length over all will be 98ft, and on tne water line,
85ft. The depth of her hold is to be 9ft., and her
draught 83 10ft.—the same as the Puritan’s. The
work of construction begins at once. Lawiey and
sons, of Boston, are building her.” We are afraid
ttatrd is too much chivalry about the Englishmen
for them ever to annex tne “Cup.” bir Richard
SuttoD, of Genesta fame, allowed the Yankees to
take a point of him without appeal and was well
drubbed for bis pains. It Will be remembered the
Puritan was on her wrong leg and tried to cross
the Genesta, when the latter poked her snout
through the Yankee s maiasail. The Genesta
could have ruu her down for her bit of pointing,
but the chivalrous Baronet kept her away and ran
under the Puritan’s stern.
9 • »
The most noticeable feature of the junior
cup match between the Osbornes and Eastern
Suburbs was the excellent fielding of Nicholson
and the wieket-keeping of Wales for the former
club. Walts' performance on baturday was along
way ahead of anything we have been shown by
our flrst-clas3 men behind the sticks.
* • ■
The light skiff handicap for “ Smith’s
trophy ” duly came off on Saturday last, and was
won oy T. Power, 151 b.: R. Matthews, 151 b., second.
Matthews, who is quite a lad, butrows remarkably
well, is the youngster who had the temerity to
tackle Messenger and Pearce at the last Balmain
regatta.
* * *
It was common property in Yankee and
Australian papers that Mr. Laidley had made a
contract with John Teemer to row Beach. It is
necessary to say there is no truth in the statement.
* * *
We should like to see the N.Y. (U.S.) Crib
Club definition of an amateur boxer. A reesnt
account in the N.Y. Clipper of an amateur box-
ing match at the club winds up with “ The bat
was then passed round for the loser, and netted a
nice little sum.”
* ■ *
Rumour has it tuat the Sydney Amateur
Boxiog Club Is not in quite a satisfactory state so
far as the matter of filthy lucre is concerned. In
fac\ the garret near the sky where the club used
to hold its little reunions has been cloied for some
time, and rumour also has it that a prominent
member had a very narrow escape of being locked
in with the paraphernalia and weighing machine
(the latter kindly lent by a too confiding member)
when tae landlord foreclosed. However, the
S.A.CB. are not to be bowed down by trifles of
this sort, and a big plunge will be made early next
month with the object of continuing the club s
miserable existence, Foley, ever to the fore in
athlet c affairs, has kindly lent his hall for the
occasion, when an entertainment consisting of
boxing and general athletics will be gone through.
* * *
Messrs. Shaw and Shrewsbury recently
issued the following letter respecting a statement
made in an evening contemporary in re the Aus-
tralian team:—“lt is asserted, fortunately on
doubtful authority, that members of the Sbaw-
Shrewsbury company will demand a minimum fee
of £2O per man for taking part in the England or
Players of England matches; and there is talk of
their requiring to rank as sharers with the pro-
prietors of the ground and the Australians. Will
you allow us to state that we have heard nothing
of such a demand, and do not for one moment
think that aDy of the members of our tea a desire
anything of the kind. On the contrary, the know-
ledge that the Melbourne Club are the promoters
ot the Australian team coming over is sufficient to
warrant them a hearty reception from all classes
of cricketers, whether amateur or professional.
For ourselves and James Liilywhite, we shall be
only too glad ot the opportunity, it only in a small
degree, to repay them for the very kind and
generous treatment we received at their hands
when in Australia.”
* * *
Mr. William Blaikie, the author of the
well-known book on how to get strong, has re-
cently been emphasiDg the need of an even and
systematic athletic ceveiopment. He observes
that rowers are apt to be all chest, and no leg.
Mr. Blaikie must be of the old fixed-seat school,
and behind the age. It is very evident he knows
nothing of the working of a sliding-seat.
* -i *>
Thus a London sporting paper on a couple
of Cabbage Gardeners:—“Mr. L. L. bmith, who
has nominated an Australian horse for the Eclipse
Stakes at Sandown, is a son of the well-known
amusement caterer, E. T. Bmitb, once oommander-
in-ohief at Drury Lane. L. L. Smith, in Melbourne,
is an advertising doctor, and dispenses remedies
in a style similar to that ot the late Joe La Mert,
in England. Mr. ‘Joe’ Thompson, over whom
ttiere was such a gush made by certain uninitiated
writers on the sporting press in England when he
visited us irom Victoria, at one time in Mel-
b urne managed a dancing rendezvous not quite
so quietly organised as Bignell s Argyll Booms
were wont to be: but then distance pr babiy
lends .enchantment to the prestige of colonial
visitors.”
* * *
S teeplechasing appears to be a more profit-
able game in France tnan in England, Australia, or
America, for Iu 1885 Baron Finot won upwards of
£20.00(1 In stakes, whereas the Due de Castries, who
heads the list of winning owners on tne flat, has
won lets than £15,000. most of wtich was picaed up
in small amounts, principally at meetings in the
south of France.
* * *
Jack Dempsey, known in the States as the
“ NonpsrD,*’ bas offered to fight the Englishman
Charles Mitchell, lor £5OO, witn or without gloves’,
* * *
Lees and Farnan have put up £5O each for
a match to come off in about six or seven weeks.
Farnan ought to nave been contented with his
last adventure with Lees, but, no doubt, hopes on
this occasion to turn the tables. Laes is also
anxious to meet O’Brien for a stake of £2OO. All
the men are at present in Melbourne.
* * *
The three and four-round fat glove fights,
which find such favour amongst colonial and
American pugs., do not. as a rule, obtain to any
great extent in Eogland, the home of the game of
knuckles. On January 4, Johnny Perkins and
Tom Smith, a par of “Brummagem buttons,”
fought a two-hours’ draw of 47 rounds. Smith had
one of his jaws broken, and Perkins fought from
the 10th round with a fractured arm. The police
interfered early in the game, and the men re-
treateo, leaving the battle-field, ropes, and stakes
to the peace-makers. Subsequently, they pitched
another ring, and fought the battle to a finish as
above, neither man being able to answer the time-
keeper’s call.
Insist upon having Wolfe's Schnapps.
Premier ba'l-room decorators of New
South Wales. Sale and Dare, decorators. Ball
and banquet rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations, Hunter-street
Sydney.*
There are many things in a house that
may rightly be called redundances, and there are
others that are indispensable. These latter com-
prise wares dealt ia by specialists and those widely-
known caterers of woras of art in earthenware,
china and glass, Bray Bros., of George-street,
claim a large share in supplying these neceEsary
art’cle?. D-awing-room. dining-room, kitchen,
and bedrooms each require special crockery and
glass. *
Wolfe's Schnapps for liver and kidney com-
plaints.
Now is the winter of the Counter-skipper’s
discontent made glorious by the sunny smiles of
his fair cu tomers who haviog encouraged him to
tear down half bis shop sweetly enquire if he ‘hasn’t
g>t somethin? just a shade lighter.’ And this re-
minds us that nothing bores the average husband
more than being comptlled t© go into a milliner's
shop and stand *s still as a stump while his wife is
wading round in a sea of silks »nd satins. He’d
much rather stay out on the pathway, and wait—
even it it was half a mile to the next public house.
How different is the case when it is the pa iant
wife who is waiting while the husband is doing the
shopping. Nothing could ever tempt her to leave
the shop door, especially when her lord and master
(as he is facetiously called by eom°) hss a penchant
for slipping rou.jd the corner to “ see a man'' or Is
investing his cash where he wi 1 get the best return
for hk money, viz , Summertield and Co., 235 and
237 Pitt-Etreet.*
Wolfe's Schnapps is an unequalled brain medi-
cine, imparting healthful vigour to that sensitive
organ.
GOMPASNUNI CATERING GO., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY. * *
THE oldest and leading Catering Establishment In N.B.W. Caterers to His Worship the Mayor,
Municipal Council of Syd ey, the A.J.C., City Club, «c., &o.
The Din ms: Saloons for Ladies and Gentlemen are the Finest, Coollest, and loftiest in the colony.
FIRST-CLASS MENU DAILY. Private Bar-Good Wine List.
0T GRILL ROOM now open. A Grill can be had at any time from 8 a.m„ to 9 p.m. Select your
own steak,&c., and see it grilled in the room. This is one of the acquisitions ci t.ne city, tnd a long-
felt w»‘ t Inspection invited. J. B. YOU, Manager.
SCHWEITZER’S COCOAT I XA.
Anti-Dyspeptic or Cocoa Chocolate Powder.
GUARANTEED PURE SOLUABLE COCOA OF THE FINEST QUALITY, WITHOUT SUGAR OR
ADMIXTURE.
The Faculty pronounce it the “most nutritious, perfectly digeslible beverage for Breakfast
Luncheon , or Supper and invaluable for Invalids and Y»»iig Children.
Being absolutely *' ail Cocoa,” with the excess of fat extracted, is four times the strength of prepara-
tions thickened jet weakened with arrowroot, starch, &c. t and in reality cheaper than such
mixture, a teaspoonful to a breakfast c ip costing les3 than one halfpenny.
COCOATINA is the test Coe >a for India and the Colonies keeping for years in all climates, being In
a concentrated fi rm. Made instantaneously with boning water, and palatable without milk.
Celebrated for remarkable sustaining Properties- Specially adapted for early Break-
fasts. Adopted as a Medical Comfort in the lloyai Navy.
Retailed hy Chemists, Grocers, &c., in Air-tight Tins, at Is. Cut., 35., ss. 6c?., &c.
Wholesale by the Sole Proprietors,
SGHWBIfZER & CO. f 10 ADAM STREET, STRAXD, W.C., LONDON,
AND ALL WHOLESALE HOUSES,


Political
Points
General election in Victoria, March sth.
It is stated that the Welsh farmers are
about to start a Land League on similar lines to
the Irish one. Ca ira!
David Gaunson, in the course of his elec-
tion speech at South Melbourne the other night,
asked: “ Why should the Public Library and the
public-house be shut on Sunday to satisfy a pack
of howling dervishes ? ”
A writer in Vanity- Fair says '“ Only
lately I heard an old and rich person orating. He
said that no crime against Christianity had been
committed by the Liberals, because the slaugh-
tered Soudanese were heathens.”
A syndicate of representatives of three
German Banks, supporte 1 by the largest firms in
London, will leave shortly for China, to negotiate
for the concession of a loan of 35 millions sterling
for providing China with armaments and railway.
[SIMPLE SUBSTITUTES.
Tom Slatt’ry has resigned—good boyl
Loo Ileydon, too, they say— our troubles!
Bring gulch a basin and a boy,
And soon he’ll blow you two more bubbles.
The electoral law in Switzerland is a
miracle of simplicity. Every male Switzer of 20
years and upwards has the right to vote, paupers,
wards, bankrupts, and criminals alone excepted;
and every one under the age of 65 is obliged to do
so under penalty of a fine.
There is not a single Roman Catholic in
the new Victorian Ministry, nor was there one in
the last Coalition Ministry. The reason of this is
that the No-Popery cry was raised in the southern
colony some three years ago, when the Roman
Catholics were signally defeated.
If you want to make Tom Slattery, M.P.,
so riled that he will do a dance de ferociti on any
public side-walk, you have no need ;to assault
him, or to compliment him upon his brilliant
career as Minister of Justice. You have only got
to ask him which way his Eminence is going to
vote.
f The power of boycotting. Mr. Kavanagh,
of Borris House, formerly Conservative member
for Carlow in the Commons, has a rent-roll of over
£15,C00 a year, but can’t get a penny of his rent
paid, and Mrs. Kavanagh has been obliged to dis-
pose of her London house in order to obtain funds
to clothe and support the family !
So exasperated are the French throughout
Canada at the execution of Riel, and at his right-
hand man, Jackson, an English Canadian Protes-
tant, being allowed to escape from prison, that
they have called upon the whole of their represen-
tatives at Ottawa to combine for the overthrow of
Sir John A. Macdonald’s Government.
Writes “An Ulster Man” to a London
Jingo print ‘ The moment that an Irish Par-
liament is erected into being, the people of Ulster
will take up arm . They will not submit to be the
subjects of a despised race, the slaves of a despised
religion. Perhaps, after they have armed them-
selves, they will wait to be attacked. Perhaps
they will not. They have no apprehensions as to
the result.”
The Bishop of Peterborough, writing in
the Contemporary on “ Oaths,” reasons against
the retention of any oaths except those a 1 minis-
tered in courts of law, or upon affidavits or other
legal processes. He would not pass an Atheists’
Parliamentary Relief Bill, and thereby give such
persons an exceptional right to affirm, but he
would place all members of the Legislature on the
same level of plain and simple declaration or
promise.
“ Save us from our friends!” Of Imperial
Federation, the organ of the Imperial Federation
League, the first number of which was published
in London on Ist January, Vanity Fair, a high
Tory organ, says :—“lt is a most ingenuous dis-
play of an organised insanity which appears to be
taking hold of all the British populations. But it
contains one proposal of sound good sense which
would really promote unity. It is that the postage
of letters to and from every part of the empire
should be reduced to one penny.” “Organised
insanity I” We thank thee for those words.
The cable news of the projected attaok by
the Great Powers upon the Greek fleet reminds
us that Greece, in default of Bulgaria, is now put
forward as a pawn in the game which Russia is
playing. The following barefaced avowal was
published in the Nqvo Vremy4, most probably
with the sanction of the Czar:—“ The policy of
Russia throughout the Balkan Question is directed
towards preparing for the decisive moment of the
final partition of Turkey, and Russia remain! oi
the watch in order to prevent a coalition of her
enemies.” Unless, too, Prince Bismarck were in
the plot, Russia would » ot speak so opeoly about
the final partition of Turkey.
The new Coalition Ministry in Victoria
contains an equal number of “ Liberals ” and Con-
servatives. Premier Gillies is a professional
politician, Chief-Secretary Qeakin |is a bru-fliss
barrister, Mr. J. L. Dow, a journalist; Ej J
WrixoD, a rich barrister; W. F. Walker, a bonded
warehouseman; John Nimmo, anj engineer; Jis
Lorimer, M,LC, a rq erc hant; C. H. Pearson (an
ex-University professor), journalist, known in
England by his “ History of England in the Middle
Ages; lienry Cuthbert, M L C., a successful Bil-
Jarat solicitor; John James is a local preacher q,‘nd
retired blacksmith; Postmaster-General, F. T.
DBrbam, is a member of the large biscuit manufac-
turing firm of Swallow and Ariel.
The reoent wharf laborers’ strike is pic-
turesquely dealt with by a Bydney correspondent
in the Noumea L’lndependant. He does not go
with the men. He runs through their system of
organisation, of affiliation, of federation, and
shows how, when the men like, they can make
victims of the masters. He calls the principle
boycottism, and alleges that it has only to be
pushed a little farther in Australia, when to the
shipmaster who refuses the demands of the
labourer, the butcher will refuse meat, the baker
bread, the grocer tea, and the priest benediction.
“ Kn Europe,” says this well-informed person,
“nous disioas: ‘Cos pauvres ouvrie's! Ici tout a
change de face ;lon peut dire: Paqvres patrons I et
pauvrefl m&itres! ’” And yet, L’inpependant is
Ultra-Democratic, and even at times Radical.
Mr. J. F. Dorington has lately been made
a baronet of England by the Conservative party,
“ becauee he was an UDSUccesslul candidate at last
election.” This Is very funny. Heredltarv titles,
such as baronet, descend, on the presumption
(notoriously false, by the way), that descendants
will inherit the capacity of the first holder. There-
fore it may be assumed tfi .t bjs honor was made
hereditary bi-cause it was hoped that all Mr, D.’s
descendants would be unsuccessful candidates
for Parliament. Which shows that the Conserva-
tives have an unflattering though not unjust esti-
mate of the thick-headedness of some of their
devotees. Following this precedent, Sir
Salmon Wilson may now be created a peer, as his
attempt to get Into Parliament was such a lament-
able failure. With N.S.W. a different practice is
followed. Here they don’t make men Cs.M.G.
because they have failed to get into Parliament,
but because they have failed to do any good for
anyone but themselves after they have been
elected.
Hon. H. J. Wrixon, the Attorney-General
of the new Victorian Government, is a namby-
pamby politician, and a man who indulges in
platitudes. The facetious David Gaunßon terms
him "the lady member.” Mr. Wrixon was once
Attorney-General in Sir JiS- M Culloch s Adminis-
tration, and although a good lawyer he is not a
particularly useful senator. Hardly any measure
ever pleases him, and he has a habit of finding
fault with almost everything. He is an able man
but rather narrow-minded on many questions, and
has the reputation of being honest and sincere.
Mr. Wrixon has nearly always voted with the
Conservative party, but that is probably owing to
the fact that he is a son-in-iaw of that wealthy and
ancient old Tory, the Hon. Henry Miller, of Mel-
bourne, better known as “ Money ” Miller.
If affairs continue as they now threaten
in Great Britain and Ireland, nothing will ap-
parently be left for the Government to do except
to go to war with the people. The Government
of Great Britain warring against the British
people would be a splendid spectacle. Not only
do the Irish refuse to pay rack-rents and the
Scotch crofters pass resolutions to resist by force
any body of police who might be sent to help pro-
cess-servers, but the Welsh farmers have also
determined to demand a reduction of rents. The
inhabitants Jof the London slums will be next to
move, we expect, and the Dukes of Westminster
and Bedford will be graciously offering a reduc-
tion of 10 per cent to tenants who pay 3s. 6d. per
week for one dirty roem to accommodate seven
souls or so. One of these days the London sans-
culottes will catch the Dukes of Westminster and
Bedford and their respective wives and children,
and will put each family into one of their own
unventilated rooms, and shut the door for half an
hour. When the doors are re opened the West-
minster and Bedford titles will pass to distant re-
lat vea.
The British army contractor and his
superiors are as big scoundrels to-day as they
were 30 years ago. Here, from an English Tory
paper “It is not pleasant reading, this testing of
bayonets at Aldershot. The specials in the Soudan
told sad tales about the bayonets—how they broke
short, twisted, proved soft ; in other words,
neither weapons of offence or defence. For in one
instance, that of 223 out of 600 bayonets of the Ist
Battalion Lancaster Regiment to be found totally
unfit for service, and 168 to be soft and defective
out of 700 belonging to the Ist gcaforth High-
landers, argues something wrong somewhere. The
old 33rd, the Duke of Wellington’s Own, one of
the three regiments without facings, was in still
worse case. Not a bayonet was good : 50
‘broke,’3oo are described as ‘soft,’ and all set down
as ‘bad.’ No marvel, then, with cartridges that
‘jammed’ and bayonets that* broke,’ our casualties
were heavy in the Soudan.’’ German bayonets
don't bend. Vanity Pair writes:—“ With bayo-
nets of superior pewter; with musket ‘ejectors’
that won't eject; and with real jam in the way of
machine guns, it seems undeniable that several
people who are alive and presumably enjoying
themselves, require hanging.” [Are these the
weapons with wnich the grand old mother-country
armed the N.S.W Goat-slayers ?—Ed. B ]
The goody-goody element is pretty strong
in the new Victorian Government. The Com-
missioner of Public Works (John Nimmo)
is an intensely pious man, and an energetic
temperance apostle. The Commissioner of
Customs (Wm. Froggatt Walker) is a protege
of that religious organ, the Melbourne D.T.,
a disciple of the Salvation Army, a bigotted
teetotal advocate, and has always bitterly and
strenuously opposed the movement for the open-
ing of the museums and libraries on Sundays.
M. H. Davies (who holds a portfolio with-
out office, as his seat is not very safe) is
also a ranter and devil-dodger, although he
is a lawyer. He objects to the opening
of libraries and museums, and to the running of
Sunday trains, but he is only a Sabbatarian in the
sense that Cappadocians and Cretans were liars,
for it is not long since he headed a deputation to
the Victorian Railway Commissioners to get
Sunday trains run to the aristocratic suburb of
Malvern, where he owns property. Mr. Davies,
however, would never entertain the idea of
running Sunday excursion trains to the chief
centres of the colony for the benefit of the work-
ing classes. He would hold up his hands in holy
hoiror at any such suggestion. It is only men of
the Nimmo, Walker, and Davies psalm-singing
and Orange stamp, who succeed in getting into the
Legislature down south now-a-days.
John James, who has just take the port-
folio of Mines in the Victorian Coalition Govern-
ment, is a blacksmith by trade, and lives in
Ballarat East, which he has represented for about
15 years. He is a Wesleyan local-preacher, and
has bes-n a follower of the Berry-Smith party from
the beginning, but not the sort of follower always
convenient to those gentlemen, John having a
will of his own, and not choosing to duck under in
everything. On one occas on a caucus was held in
which Johu rose and objected to the domineering
of Major (now Colonel) Smith, remarking that
there was too much Major for his stomach. Upon
this the wrathful warrior threatened to throw
this non-fighting Methodist through the window,
which roused the old Adam in John’s sledge-
hammer arm. He felt the biceps, and found
they were not yet soft, and advanced in
the form of a hollow square, and-the
warrior—well, the warrior changed the subject.
He was Chairman of Committees for three years;
is a teetotaller, but had his revenge for it by iear •-
ing to smoke at 45. He.is an honourable, capable,
good-tempered man, popular amongst the
miners, and familiar with their wants. Hi-?
appointment, however, will not be relished by the
Colonel, who, with J B. Patterson and others, are
iayiDg around for a chance to have a slap at any-
thing that will give them the leading place they
had in the Berry regime. We wish John luck of
his £lsol} a year, and are sure that where there is
work to be done he will go at it hammer and
tongs.
Theebaw is deposed, his territory is
annexed, and the British flag waves over
one more conquered race. England has dili-
gently prepared the way for her last bit of terri-
torial aggrandisement for years by representing
Theebaw as a brandy and blood thirsty ruffian of
the deepest dye. fn years to com® a man will
qnsa and make a book, and the book will be
written to prove that Theebaw was a grossly-
maligned individual, who shuddered if a fly
knocked its head against a window-pane, and who
never drank anything stronger than water
flavoured with a peppermint lozenge. All the
wicked sovereigns and bloodthirsty tyrants of the
past have, one by one, been proved to have been
angels upon earth. Herod was so devoted to
caiidren that he would play “ mulberry bush ’’
with ragged little boys and girls in the public
streets. Nero, instead of fiddling while Rome was
burning, was rushing about with hand-grenades
endeavouring to put the flames out, and rescuing’
a cat and her kittens from a top storey at the risk
of his life. King Richard 111. had taken buns and
sugar-candy to his nephews jn the Tower, when
they fell upon him and tried to throw him down
on tfle bed and smother him with a pillow. Nana
Sahio wj'S so shocked when he heard what had
been done at Cawnpore that he fled from India
leaving his treasure behind him, and died a
Scripture-reader. 'these are lacts which iat-*
writers have proved beyond dispu'e, and bet( re
the year 2000 we shall know poor Thtebaw in hi,
true character of a inartjr, persecuted and
slandered by the covetous white men whose greet v
eyes had fastened on his fruitful lands,
the cruell-st eonsequenoe of the N.S.W,
Coalition is that the Postal Department shall know
Dan. O Connor no mere. Hardiy had he learned
how to wear "the Victoria of public life”
before it was rudely snatched from him and given
to a man who never meotiors the glories of
Ancient Greece and Rome, and is only ordinarily
reverent to the "Mimory of William Char-r-r lea
Wintworth. mutantur. But one short
month since, the adulations of the effusive Yeung
who managed to ladle out praise to the guest of
the eveping and to himself in just about equal
quantities, were ringing through the corridors of
the Town Hall, and the exalted Dan., in reply, said
everything in praise of himself that the host
had forgotton to mention. And now the prize
has passed from bis grasp, and the bald
fact remains that the model Minister who
could “talk a hurricane”; the Minister who
mastered the details of his office down to the rat
question within the spaoe of one fortnight is not
considered good enough for a place in the coali-
tion. The coalition must be overflowing with blt-
terne?s for the only “ orathor” in the Assembly.
What use for Sir John to tell h's la*e colleague
that Plain Bill has been taken onto do the skiting?
Plain Bill naver says anything of Wentworth and
those nations of antiquity. In th 9 expulsion of
Dan. from office the only pleasure can be to the
public generally. Dan. goes out, and we have bis
banquet pledge—in vino veritas -thrt be will take
care that the Po-stil Department is administered in
future by a capable man. Can it be—surely not -
but yet it might, that he refused office under the
coalition, in order to carry out thi3 pledge ? If so
he has developed a new virtue—the virtue of
modesty.
HE’S NEVER SPOKEV SINCE.
The great Dan. at the banquet stood,
Last Jan. the twenty-third,
And made a grand oration, such
As ne’er before was hearl:
With bitter scathing ire ny
He made the Pressmeßjwince,
But—thankfully we note;the fact—
He’s never spoken since.
He deftly skipped from Ancient Greece
To modern pork and lard,
And told what trustful friends he met
When times with him were hard;
His periods were neatly turned,
His action was “ imminse,”
But thanks to all our patron saints,
He’s never spoken since.
He sat within the Senate Hall,
When fierce word-conflicts raged,
But not a single “ spache ” of his
The Pressman’s pen engaged.'
’Tis rumoured that his chief had said,
That Dan.’s great “ eloquince ”
Would “ bust the Ministry to bits
He’s never spoken since.
No more shall Post officials quake
Beneath Dan.’s searching eye—
No more shall lightning-dodgers bend,
When he walks proudly by.
He’s worn the bright Victoria Cross
Of public life; but—plain
Enough it is to all but Dan—
He never will again.
TO SPIRIT MERCHANTS AND THE PUBLIC
GENERALLY.
When buying ST. LOUIS LAGER BEER be sure
that you get the original article, on each bottle of
which is a label with the trade mark—eagle resting
on crossbar of letter A, Sole agents in Australasia,
Butcher, Fehon, and Co, 111, Pitt street.
“ A good name is better than precious ointment.”
Wolfe’s Schnapps possesses a good name won by
merit.
BEALE & COMPANY
City Show Rooms,
386 and 612 GEORGE STREET,
12 CENTRAL MARKETS,
I§l OXFORD STREET
AGENTS and TRAVELLERS in EVERY
COUNTRY TOWN.
Address Letters of Inquiry—
-371a Pltt-straet, Sydney.
THE LATEST TRIUMPH of SEWING MACHINE
The “ BEALE ”
HIGH-ARM
PATENT SEWING MACHINES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
Wertheim Sawing Machine,
BEALE.
Tha “Hapsburg” Planes.
SOLE IMPORTERS,
BEALE AND^CO— PANY.
THE “HAYDN” ORGANS
AND
HARMONIUMS.
Sole Importers
BEALE AMD CO—PAWY.
FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
and
FULL INFORMATION,
Address
ANY LOCAL AGENT OR TRAVELLER;
or,
BEALE & COMPANY
Sydney.
m
&
IS>
A Derangement of the Liver
THE CAUSE OF DISEASE
IN THB
STOMACH,
KIDNEYS
—AND—
WEEV OTTS
S^STEZLvdI.
theKKS, u e e|e'SM e aSrb”” ary ° t aLe ° tUr “ UP ° , ‘ “ UTered betore
DR. J. HAYDOCK,
r has been known as the great blood-maker and blood-purifier of the Circulation. From
and spongy structure, it plays a most Important part in the animal economy, as regards
nutrition. Pood takeninthe mouth and acted upon by the digestive organs of the
converted into Glucose and Peptone, and In these forms enters the Portal vehif Here by
h^o B^ 011 liver,these substances are eonverted into a form of sugar and pass out of the liver
a<vrxr«i?+™^f* n ’ ca ec * Hepatic vein, into the general circulation. The new material now formed
Bystem* W ° purpoBes ’ 5 the maintenance of heat in the body and assisting in the cell growth of the
Murchison says, “ The composition of bile and its secretion is very complex. It is consta *ti v,_
c - Tet ®£ « y i he I ] v ® r > and » increasing suddenly before eating, gradually decreases as soon awlie
?M te n^?>, tlBfled and feeding ceases.” Now, if this most important organ of the body be
iPJV}?,’ P* th .e passage of bile interfered with, emaciation and disease ensue. I note eight narked
peculiarities that now occur, and which we all know of c rjwkeft
1. The patient oomplains of a feeling of weight and fullness of the stomach.
2. Distension of the bowels by wind.
Heartburn.
A feeling of weariness, pains in the limbs and great sleepiness after meals,
A bad taste in the mouth, especially in the morning, and furred tongue.
Constipation, with an occasional attack of diarrhoea.
Headaohe in front of head.
DeP e?erythiig S fo r r to-morrow! melanoholy ’ with laBsitude and a disposition to leave
All of the above symptoms go to chow functional derangement of the liver: and now comes the
great importance ® f anyenorniade as to the condition of the patient. He shouldimmediatSvoro-
wit .£ • MV** STIMULANT, the moat common form of which is a Pm. Daily ex-
Srnmn?fnt h thI 8 onf?«™ the Pll j ls °o“P°unded properly, is the readiest mode of inciting and
promoting the action of the Liver, and can be almost always relied on. I have devoted manv vears of
“7 as ““y of y° u now before me know, to compounding a Pill that will act readite and svstem-
aticaliy as a Bilious Remedy. Ido not believe in great purgatives, and therefore have made a phi nn«
of which is an active and thorough dose. I have called it ave maae a PlU * ono
Or. Haydock’s Now Liver Pill (Sugar Coated.)
One Pill is a Dose! One Pill is a Dose! One Pill is a Dose!
For all Diseases of the Kidneys, Dr. Haydook’s New Liver Pills are a perfect oure.
Will satisfy the most sceptical.
One Pill
For Female Diseases, Nervous Prostration, Weakness, General Lassitude, Want of Annetlto an
Sick Headache, Dr. Haydock’s New Liver Pilk will be found an Effectual Remedy. Ppetlte * an
They are universal In their effeots, and a oure can almost always be guaranteed.
Each vial oontains Twenty Pills—One Pill is a Dose. Prioe Twenty-Five Cents.
FOB SALE BT ALL DbUGGISTS.
Every Pill is Sugar Coated. If your druggist does not keep them, we will mall them free to anv ad.
dress on receipt of 35 cents. Five vials for $l.OO. BUT AT ONCE. DO NOT DELAY. ayaa
, CAUTION.—To secure the genuine Haydock’s Pills, observe tbatthe signature of J h Francis
Agent for the United States, is written on every dozen packages. Purchase none without this.
As Dr. Haydock’s Liver Pills are entirely different from the 213 kinds now in the market aiw
tic can have a sample bottle sent him free on receipt of his name and address. ’ y Hoep "
HAYDOCK & CO., New York, U. S.
6.
cj
cm
U N r£?) UiS FIj £;VOU:R ana unsurpassed
Crispness distinguish Wilson's Ame-
rican “Extra Toast “BISCUITS. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert
nothing equals them. Delicious "with
B HP erb wl * h wlne * and incomparable
with coffee or cheese. p u
TURNER Sc CO.,
Bole Agents,
W BUSSJUC BTR*BT,tBTDNKT,


dfg
-
S ! 1
Eczema on Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
n
Scrofula on Neck»
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cutic-ura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been pbliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00 ; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
Move* Travel Without It.
■Wanted, in Every House.
E
RBSES
EFFECTUALLY D ESTROYsI
ALLNOXIOUS imsFctr^
FLEAS. FLIES. BEETLES MOSCtU ITOESj
COCKROACHES. AND IS
AT - THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESSTO BIRDS DOG!
FOWLS OROTHER
ANIMALS
$
&
hd
1 :
|^Fm^wAß,os
PbyAU CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS
WHOLESALE
FELTON* GRIMWADE'W.C°|
MELBOURNE 1
Wanted in Every Souse.
Ask for KRCJSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Reware of
the numerous imitations.
JAMHOOPt RESTORED 1
• A Clergyman harinr tried #rery known rated)
forth. CUR E °fp3ERVOUSEXHAU»
u. - v * ■uwgjuig Amiuatuitjf uo vrui pn _____
S?. Ascription which CURED him. , Addram
ln *£. stamped envelope— 3
“ r * ®5* A. CLARKE, F.O. Box MS. Sydney.
UMHftB. LLAS
■J
UTUDT BCONOMT
O and
HaveyourlTmbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and mud*
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
£4l George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly axe
YANKEE DOODLE
DoBjj||
O/ *SON & SO^ S
== 'is§>' o n Ei~£==
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
• :j ~ ~ •» ■' —V;
Sada
t .JgjjL- .
COIiQUESdR JJ
&■ - 70 B .7—,
OIJCgOfS & SONS, Sydney,
than any factory in the southern hemisphere.
poetess the largest Factory, Manufacture more
Tobacco, and consume more American Leaf
YANKEE DOODLE, CONQUEROR, Sir Roger, Champion, and Dixson’s Cut Tobaccos.
JjlOR SALE BY THE UNDERSIGNED.
Japanese green blinds, ail sizes
JAVA KAPOK, in small bales.
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS, all descriptions.
AMERICAN CHAIRS of every description
SILVER PLATED BEDSTEADS, all sizes
BRASS BEDSTEADsTand COTS, all sizes.
COTTON FLOCK, in bales, cheap.
WOOLLEN FLOCK, in bales.
CURLED HORSEHAIR and FEATHERS.
CEYLON FIBRE and NEW ZEALAND FLAX.
TOILET GLASSES, in assorted cases.
WOVE WIRE SPRING MATTRESSES.
FURNITURE FRAMES.
HAIR SEATING 3, VELVETS, and TAPESTRIES
UPHOLSTERERS’ TRIMMINGS.
IRON BEDSTEADS, very cheap.
MATTRESSES, PALLIASSES, BOLSTERS, and
PILLOWS.
J. LAWLER, 608, GEORGE STREET,
Factory—No. 1,3,5, Union-lane. Telephoae No. 06.
(A/ime iflyc > ■t/'.JfeLsstcn
& ■
V
rm
\\T ILLIAM BTTLLABD has the Largest Stock
fV of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, Ao.
Churoh Music, Anthems, Psalters. Services, Ac.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, Ao.
Orchestral and Brass Band Musio, in variety.
New catalogues can be had gratis on applica-
tion.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, Ac., at lowest prices.
Printing.—lnvoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in paroels,
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Pans, Ac.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Christmas and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock,
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most important Copying
pograph
Instruments ever invented, The Trypograp_
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
Bond and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
842 GEORGE STREET.
H
OILOWAI’S PILL
A never-failing remedy in all Derangements of
the LIVER and STOMACH, they may be used with
perfect confidence by young and old.
Their world-wide fame for the last fifty years is
a guarantee of their efficacy. Thousands of testi-
monials, from princes to peasants, attest their
marvellous virtues.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London
Purchasers should look to the Label on the
Boxes and Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-
street, London, they are spurious.
Sulpholine
Lotion,
THE CURE FOR SKIN DISEASES /
In a few days Eruptions, Pimples, IBlotches entirely
fade away. Beautifully fragrant. Perfectly harm-
less* Cures old-standing Skin Diseases. Astonish-
ing results follow. It removes every kind of
Eruption, Spot, or Blemish, and renders the nwg
clear, smooth, supple, and healthy. Sulpholine
Lotion is sold by most Chemists. Bottles, 2s. 94
each. Made only by J. PEPPER and Co.* Leaden
PEPPER’S
QUININE & IRON
HEALTH.
STRENGTH.
ENERGY.
GREAT BODILY STRENGTH I
GBISAT NERVE STRENGTH 1
GREAT MENTAL STRENGTH I
TONIC
GREAT DIGESTIVE STRENGTH follows the use
°f PEPPER’S QUININE and IRON TONIC. It
promotes appetite, dispels languor, depression'.
&c.. Is a remedy for Neuralgia, Chest affections!
ana wasting diseases. Bottles, 16 doses (new size)!
larger bottles, 33 doses. Sold everywhere. Insist
on having Pepper’s. Made solely by J. PEPPER
& Co.. London. Specially suitable for the colonies.
X-iOc3s:3rer’s
SULPHUR
HAIR RESTORER
THE BEST. THE SAFEST. THE CHEAPEST.
Restores the Colour in a few applications*
Large Bottles, Is. od. Made in London.
-A-"brala.a,m.’s
The Great Liyer Remedy*
Pr&Pared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral subsianehi
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth ,c*a*
tnry ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pr*.
par ?jL prepa £ atlon * th® result of"pVacti oa 1' ei
perience. They overcome the worst form ol
?- eadan ?K#a®/»
434 GEORGE STREET.
MDE. BE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it u un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
md A,rMt
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations
bearing the name and address
None genuine unless
of the only maker,
J. BUTTERFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth!
Street, Redfern.
G-los®
ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS.
■American Buggies,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
SPECIALLY IMPORTED FOB CITY OR COUNTRY USE,
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM.
sterling Quality,
LOWEST PRICES,
27 YORK STREET,
STDNET.
tf* EVERT VEHICLE G CAKANRCEH


In the Future.
PITT STREET, BYDNEY, TIME, 145 P.M.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When oenturies have come and fled,
Arid in accord with Nature’s strange
And wondrous law of utter change,
This city once so great is dead;
When briek has given place to stone,
And stone has crumbled into dust;
When gaud’s have gone to moth and rust,
Which now might deck a monarch’s threne;
Then learned men, whose pleasures lie
•In solving secrets of the past,
Will hover round and stop at last
Beside a spot I now desory,
And try, but always try in vain,
With doubt and vague uneasiness,
A certain subtle greasiness
Which spreads around them, to explain.
•Oh 1 were I there by Holy Rood,
At once I’d settle their debate,
And prove it to them clear and straight,
’Twas there mine old-time hash-house stood.
DYSPEPSIUM G. BILE.
The New York Times follows the dead
millionaire, Vanderbilt, to his costly tomb with a
curious calculation of what might be done with
his fortune of 300,000,100 of silver dollars; for
instance, put lengthwise, they would stretch 4073
miles; piled on each other, they would reach a
height of 355 miles; laid flat upon the ground, they
would cover 60 acres; their weight in ma s would .
be 7160 tens, requiring 358 cars for transportation;.
in dollar bills, laid lengthwise, they would reach
nearly around the earth; made into a book, it
would be 13 miles thick; spread upon the ground,
they would cover 746 acres. All of which, from
the Times’ point of view, seems marvellous. But
when considered from other points of vision
M 00,000,000 is but an insignificant pot of dust; and
when compared with other and more useful
things, cuts but a contemptible figure in this
world’s affairs, and no figure at all in that other
life where such treasures never reach. All the
gold of the world is estimated at $6,4(0,000,000, and,
if pure and east into a solid mass, its dimensions
would form a cube the sides of which would not
exceed 26 feet and three quarters of an inch, it
could be placed in an ordinary room or two. If
the Vanderbilt millions had been cast into a solid
cup of gold, we could have put it into our coal-bip.
The heart beats 70 times per minute, or 3,577 204,000
in the 70 years allotted for the life of millionaires,
and all Vanderbilt's money could not have pur-
chased a single heart-beat- The human lUDgs are
in that time inflated 690,526 800 times, and if Van-
derbilthad bad the breath kicked out of him by a
forty-dollar mule, all his wealth could not have
purchased a single respiration. Antony had
squandered £175 000,000, and at the time of the
assassination of Caesar was in debt £3,500,000. The
present population of the earth is 1 424,00 000.
Vanderbilt’s wealth divided among them would
have furnished seven cents apieee. The area of
the earth’s surface is 197,000,000 of square miles.
Vanderbilt’s wealth would have placed but one
dollar on each mile. A single valuable gem—sap-
nhire— weighing a little over six ounces, is valued
at over £3,000,000. All the money of the Vander-
bilt estate would not equal a pure diamond that
might be worn upon the bosom of the most
worthless woman that ever Jived. The total
bonded debt of the civilised world is £15,000.000 000.
Add the debts of India, China, and Jap in,
and it is increased another thousand millions.
The national debt of tbe United States is about
£360 000 000, and it can ali be printed upon one
bond with coupons attached, at a cost not exceed-,
in* to oents, and of an intrinsic value not worth a
nickel Two hundred millions is a large amount
in dollars, and gives great power to the living man
who controls it, but when ne dies does not furnish
an obolus under his dumb, dead tongue to pay
Charon to ferry him across the Styx to the shadows
f that other world where wealth is dross. Van-
derhilt lived and died, and left the world no better
for his existence. Around his memory linger
hninev traditions, anecdotes of his avarice, and an
utter want of human sympathy. His wealth has
purchased for him the gratitude of no poor and
unfortunate ones. His mansiocs on Fifth Avenue
will in time be turned into palaces ot merchandise.
His body, watched and guarded till it shall have no
commercial value, will fill a space in its sarco-
ShSruf and the richest man in the world will be
forgotten by all but his heirs, and only remem-
hercd by them for the money he left them. AVhat
aood this rich man might have done with his vast
accumulations had he been possessed of
Onerous emotions, and not been consumed
with r the vain ambition of founding a family
in which iDthere shall be found a soldier, scholar,
or gentleman, ever a hero, statesman, or philan-
thropist, he will be ashamed of the stock upon
which he has been grafted. We can suggest ever
m many uses to wnicta the Vanderbilt two taun-
Srcd millions of dollars might have been appre-
ciated that would have increased his length of
dayaTpromoted the happiness of the social circle
which be was the head, contributed to the
measure «f multitudes of his fellow-creatures,
mSSe U the wcrid better, left to him an honorable
luace in the Verld’a memory, inscribed his name
among those who loved his fellowmon, carried
mm Sy across the valley of the shadow of
Siath and of all the gelden stools he could have
hSdoMOf the most comfortable, of all the golden
hornahla would have been attuned to the sweetest
ffin and of all the halos shining about the heads
Mrcle the great white throne his would have
heen the one most brilliant.
we read in a contemporary that “The Sy- |
ney Scottish Rifles are rapidly increasing in numbers
owing to the inspiriting strains from the pipers.”
It may be true. There may be people so consti-
tuted, but we cannot refrain from quoting ia this
conjunction a paragraph from an old letter which
we received from a friend in England shortly after
the Ashantee war. He refers to the reception of
the Black Watch at Southampton on their return,
and says The loeal poet of the place was pre-
sent, and read a poem on ‘ Music,’ composed for
the occasion, in which occurred the following:—
. . . ‘ The Ashantees fled dismayed
When Scotland’s bagpipes thro’ their forests
played.'
And as he (the local poet) was a McO wen, he could
not have been joking.”
A paragraph in a Melbourne paper states
that ‘‘considerable excitement is felt in Tallan-
gatla, atownship 25 miles from Wodonga, conse-
quent on the reports which have been received
that a wild man in a nude condition with his body
covered with long hair, has been seen on the Koe-
tong Ranges. It is asserted by several persons
that they saw the man as described sitting be_
tween two fires, and that when observed ho made
off into the scrub, uttering loud yells.” Poor fel-
low 1 This is what too much but no matter*
These Jernel canvassers are much too enterpris-
ing. They should coniine themselves to this side
of the Murray. People on this side are more ac
customed to them, and are not so easily frightened
when they make their appearance suddenly. AVe
hope that Alfred, who, we see, has just returned
from Europe, will not be angry with us for giving
him this friendly hint. It is done Simply in a
spirit of pure good nature.
Men who “go down to the sea in ships are
gay dogs.” 86 far as some of the officers of the mer-
cantile marine are concerned, the little stretch of
water between Australia and England is a verit-
able Salt Lake. Erom time to time we have heard
through the medium of the divorce courts a deal
about the doings at sea of amorous captains and
their frivolous assistants; but a complete record,
extenuating nothing, of life on a certain very
popular and fashionable ooean-liner trading be-
tween Port Jackson and London docks, would
make each particular hair of the moral public
stand on end. If even a little of what is said can
be believed, the officers of that ship are flies in the
matrimonial ointment of one or two of the richest
men in Australia, whoso better halves-no wonder
—have grown very fond of voyaging by sea, and
“ travel ” very much faster than any steamer. We
are reminded of all this by the shocking dis-
closures last week in the case of the unfortunate
girl Marion Williamson, who, on the voyage be-
tween Townsville and Normanton, in a coasting
steamer,threw herself overboard and was drowned.
The girl was travelling as a steerage passenger,
and was seen to fall overboard by another pas-
senger, who instantly gave the alarm. The boats-
wain, it is alleged, interposed : “ Don’t make a
noise about it; hold your tongue.” The chief
mate, on being asked to stop the ship by a pas-
senger, is stated to have said : *■ No, l won’t; it’s
too late now.” The captain received information
of the circumstance, and instantly stopped and
made a search which, however, proved fruitless.
The lady passenger who occupied the same berth
as deceased stated that the girl frequented the
second engineer's cabin, and was with that officer
some time before her disappearance. The Queens-
land Attorney-General, in a minute upon the
depositions taken at an enquiry, regrets that he
cannot reach the second engineer by the criminal
law, and thinks that, if the evidence of the wit-
nesses is credible, others of the officers should be
prosecuted. This story of cold-blooded man-
slaughter is so horrible as to be almost beyond
belief.
Tf vou drink wine, drink the best. If you drink
- • drink Wolfe’s, wbicn is the only genuine
J, TURNER ROBINSON & cu.'c
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 Georga-straat,
Established 1861,
HAS THI LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guaranteed.
qtjod facimus valde facimus.
. (What we do we do well.)
Vs. I ?.*
, 43
ss*.
TOUR PHOTO.-If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ac-
cept what is but well-meant
couusel, and pay first a visit to
the vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can inspect an
arrayof portraiture, not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Oreelman and Co., which
for artistic .execution and elegant
finish, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost universal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies 0. and Co hold quite a
unique position as potographers.
Prices—C-D-V.,; Cabinets* 30s. per dozen.
CREELMAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, SYDNEY ARCADE.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
“ If you are suffering from poor health
‘or languishing on a bed of sickness,
* take cheer, for American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will cure you.
“ If you are simply ailing, if you feel
‘ weak and dispirited, without clearly
‘ knowing why, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will Revive you.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
* taxed yourself with your pastoral
‘ duties, or a Mother worn out with care
‘ and work, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will Restore you.
“If you are a man of business or
‘labourer weakened by the strain of
* your avery-day duties, or a man of let-
* ters, toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strenghten you.
“ If you are suffering from over eating
‘ordrinking, any indiscretion or dissi-
‘ pation, or are young and growing too
* fast, as is often the case, Am. Co.’s
Hop Bitters will relieve you.
“If you are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
* that your system needs cleansing, ton-
* ing, or stimulating, without ifftoxicat-
* ing, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters is what you need.
“If you are old, and your blood thin
‘ and impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
‘unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Am. Hop Bitters will give you new Life
and Vigour.
“ HOP BITTERS, as made by the Ame-
* rican Co., is an elegant, healthy, and
‘ refreshing flavouring for sick-room
‘ drinks, impure water, etc., rendering
‘them harmless, and sweetening the
‘ mouth, and cleansing the stomach.”
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with Hop Bitters,
"And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
None genuine without a bunch of green bops
on white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown in
bottle. Shun all others as vile poisonous stuff.
I,
V
“ Mr. William Ball.-Dear Sir,—Allow me to say
that I find your ‘ Bloom of Peaches * superior to
anything of the kind that I ever used before. —
Yours truly, Emelie Melville.”
“ Dear Sir,—l have never used anything equal to
your‘Bloom of Peaches.’ — Maggie Moorb.”
“ Dear Sir,—l have the greatest pleasure in re-
commending Mr. Ball’s ‘ Bloom of Peaches ’ and
‘Fett-Puder’ as being invaluable.—Yours truly,
Alice Bees.”
To be obtained of all chemists,
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
«FETT-PUDER,’* a delicate and invisible
powder for the face. Beautifully perfumed.
White, Pink, or Cream, to suit all complexions.
Price, 1/6 per box.
Manufactured only by
WILLIAM BALL,
The “ Professional ” and Pharmaceutical Chemist,
61 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale Agents for Sydney ;
Messrs. E. PROSSER & CO. t Wholesale Chemist!
c.
LIMITED,
356 Gearge-stroet,
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
PIANOS, ORGANS
and
MUSIC
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EAST TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues & Prices on Application.
W. H. PALING & Co.
356 George-street, Sydney.
3T
BULL DOG ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thirst*
Quenching properties of this wond-renowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their. favourite beverage blithe
ALE, which is to°be obtained^o?*Sf the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTELL A C 0«
Sole Agents.
Evjp
Sh
VJSKYBODY (
OULD USB f
FEMELL'S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
FLO TTIS
IT IS MADE FBOM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MlLli
831 (fieor are-street. Sydney.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROOERB AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S
CELEEE^TSD
BISCUITS AID CASES, TREACLE ABB SOLOES SHE
Self-raising /Erated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
FOR SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE,
g, & A, have obtained First Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney 1.E., 1880; Special Gold Media
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-4,
■. m ameli a. bo.. mb Stant-strew*.


Awprded Three
"prize Medals
mi
for Superior
Workmanship.
A. B. PIKE,
Importer and Manufacturer of
high art furniture
AND
Appointments,
Brass* Iron, and Nickle-plated Bedsteads.
Woven, Wire, and other Mattresses.
Velvet- pile, Kidderminster, Tapestry, nnd Brus-
sels Carpets in Newest ColouriDgs and Designs.
niankets, Quilts, Hearth Rugs, Door Mats, Dinner
Services, Chamber Ware.
Kitchen Requisites, &o , &c.
The Only Address is
355 smd 365 a Pitt-&treet,
BETWEEN
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
AWARDED THREE PRIZE MEDALS
FOR DURABILITY.
«¥*
aoi Apauiaj aiqinßj.u| ajuo a
30N3SS1
, iam»
SflHo3Hii
si
?^3M
aaao
unoj ni
nr HERE are many men in this colony who are,
'n day by day, melancholy, miserable, and a
burden to themselves, through early indiscretion
or over-indulgence. It is to those that this adver-
tisement is addressed. Impotence drags its victim
in its unhappy train through years of suffering,
rendering bis existence a misery. He sees his
fellow beings hale, hearty, and vigorous—in the
full enjoyment of manhood’s greatest privilege -
and naturally becomes despondent, seeking soli-
tariness, and shunning society generally.
He is lured into trying some of the So-called
Remedies, but without avail, and imagines be
must go down to the grave a hopelf si invalid. If
such be your calamity, know that your case can
be relieved and a Cure effected by a simple course
of this Invaluable Medicine, which will, in the
short space of Four Weeks, render you capable
of appreciating and Enioying Life.
This valuable remedy affords relief, and perma-
nently cures all who suffer from Wasting and
Withering of the Nervous and Muscular Tissues,
Spermatorrhoea, and all Urinary Deposits, which
ckuse inoapicity and degeceracy, total and partial
prostration, and every other exhaustive derange-
ment of the system-regenerating all the im-
portant elements of the human frame, and en-
abling man to fulfil his mcst sacred obligations.
The directions are very simple, and require no
restraint or hindrance from business. 1 amphlets
enclosed in each case with testimonials.
In cases at 13s , or four quantities in one, for 365.;
if by coach, 3s. 6d. extra. City and suburbs free.
Agents for Sydney :
Messrs. W. BARCLAY & CO.,
43 Goulbcrn Street,
One door from George Street, South,
Parcels, packed securely, and free from obser-
vation, sent to any part of the colony on receipt
of Notes, Pest Office Order, or Postage Stamps,
with the greatest promptitude.
MOULTON’S
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON'S
PRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and nc
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit).
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, I*riee Ib. 3d-
C. E, MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILL
MARSHALL'S
TONIC NERVINE
TRADE MARK-" TONIC NERVINE.”
A BaiTß, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE lor Ner-
A voufl and General Debility, and all complaint!
that spring from lack of nerve foroe, as Neuralgia
Toothaohe, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
Ac. By its tonic and soothing effects it at once
removes all craving for Alcohol. By its richness
in phosphorous and other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALLS TONIC NERVINE nour-
ishes and gives vigour ta the whole system.
Price, is. fld., or 265. a case- Sold everywhere.
Proprietors. HA RSHALL BROTHERS Registered
Chemists. 101 6 Mariret-st., Sydney. N.B.— All imi-
tations Illegal. TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
fgh
df
gh
dfg
hd
Very'
WwgNtnftiTtous
■WESTED WHEN ALL
HERKINDSOFFOOO are
fgh
ESH
AYER’S
Hair Vigor
restores, 'with, the gloss and freshness of
youth, faded or gray hair to a natural, rich
brown color, or deep black, as maybe desired.
By its use light or red hair maybe darkened,
thin hair thickened, and baldness often,
though not always, cured.
It checks falling of the hair, and stimu-
lates a weak and sickly growth to vigor. It
prevents and cures scurf and dandruff, and
heals nearly every disease peculiar to the
scalp. As a Ladies’ Hair Dressing, the
Vigor is unequalled ; it contains neither oil
nor dye, renders the hair soft, glossy, and
silken in appearance, and imparts a delicate,
agreeable, and lasting perfume.
Mr C. P. Bricher writes from Kirby, 0..
July 3, 1882 : “ Last fall my hair commenced
falling out, and in a short time 1 became
nearly bald. I used part of a bottle of
AYER’S Hair Vigor, which stopped the fall-
ing of the hair, and started a new growth. I
have now a fail head of hair■growingvigO£
ously, and am convinced that but tor tne
use of your preparation I should have been
entirely’bald.” '
j w. Bowen, proprietor of the McArthur
(Ohio) Enquirer , says : “ Ayer’s Hair Vigor
is a most excellent preparation fox the ban.
I speak of it from my own experience. Its
use promotes the growth of new hail, and
makes it glossy and soH- Lbc J iGOR is also
a sure cure for dandruff. Lot within my
knowledge lias the preparation ever tailed
to give entire satisfaction.” ,
Mr. Angus Fairbairn, leader of the
celebrated “ Fairbairn Family of Scottish
Vocalists, writes from Boston, Mass., Eeb. b,
1880 : ‘‘Ever since my hair began to give sil-
very evidence of the change which fleeting
time procureth, I have used Ayer s Hair
Vigor, and so have been able to maintain
an appearance of youthfulness—a, matter ot
considerable consequence to ministers, ora-
tors, actors, and in fact every one who lives
in the eyes of the public.”
Mrs. O. A. Prescott, writing from 18 Elm
St., Charlestown, Mass., April 14, 1882, says :
« Xwo years ago about two-tliirds of my hair
came off. It thinned very rapidly, and I was
fast growing bald. On using Ayer s Hair
Vigor the falling stopped and a new growth
commenced, and in about a month my head
was completely covered with short hair. It
lias continued to grow, and is now as good as
before it fell. I regularly used but one bottle
of the Vigor, but now use it occasionally as
a dressing.”
We have hundreds of similar testimonials
to the efficacy of Ayer’s Hair Vigor. It
needs but a trial to convince the most skepti-
cal of its value.
prepared by
Dr. J C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists,
ELLIOTT BBOS. and 8. HOFFNWNG ft CO.
Wholesale Agents.
CONTINUED SUCCESS
or
RILEY BROTHERS’
ORIGINAL
PACKED in and INSURED against
or Carriage paid by mail all over the colonlet
DyCoaoh, Railway, or Steamer.
The £5 Bale system has been in operation for 1<!
vears during which time we have despatched over
forty’thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
fa The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe,
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
£& LADY’S BALK.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
of good longcloth, and
nicely trimmed. If de-
sired, other articles may
bo ordered instead of
any of the above.
4SK MOURNING BALE.
25 yds. Blk. French Twill
3 yaTds Black Crape
1 doz. Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
GLOVES.
On receipt of 3s. In
stamps, we send, post
free, a pair of 3 or 4-
button kid or silk Glove s
any size or colour, good
quality and fashionable
For accouchements, vrt
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Kobe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £6.
IBs.
We send, carriage free,
a Lady’s New Accouche-
ment Belt for fifteen
shillings, or a pair of best
Nursing Stays for ten
shillings.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
he happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able materials-Silks, Velvets, &c.-with
prices, and full instruction for self-measurement,
If applied to.
RILEY BROTHERS,
165 Oxford Street, Sydney.
Originators! of t!?e celebrated £5 Bales ol Era per y
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL pre-
serves, strengthens, and beautifies the hair . it
contains no lead or mineral ingredients, and can
now be also had in a golden colour, which is
especially suited for fair or golden-haired children
and persons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a most
cooling, healing, and refreshing wash for the face,
hands and arms, and is perfectly free from any
mineral or metallic admixtures ; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &c.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TTBB
produces immediately a perfect change in red or
grey hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a glossy and
permanent brown or black. which colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask aDy dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents—Elliott Bros ,
I e. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
f| HE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES:
64 PITT- STREET, and 538 GEORGE-BTREET.
Paid-up Capital...
Reserve Fund ...
£1,000,000
675,000
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
EDWARD B. HOLT. Manager.
G
ENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES REPAIRED
AND CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Near Market-street.
CURATIVE •
ELKCTKic ELECTRICITY.
HEALTH WITHOUT MEDICINE.
Ib obtained speedily and permanently by adopting
the safe and never-failing remedy of the new mod©
of treatment by Electricity, as suppdiedjto the
human system by wearing the MAGNET ICAL
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO. S genuineELEC-
TBIC BELT, a restorer of impaired vitality and
failiDg health. It is an unvarying success id th©
cure and alleviation of Rheumatism, Indigestion,
Lumbago, Bciatica, Paralysis, Epilepsy, Constipa-
tion, Nervous Debility, and the numerous ailments ,
consequent upon living in a semi-tropical^
and the baneful effects of malaria, which alpne
are caused by the deficiency or abstra.otibn from,
the body of the all-pervading element of iue-
electrieity. This mode of treatment id by far the
most perfect and successful method yet discovered
(combined with perfect safety) for supplying to the
bodv the continuous or imperceptible current or
electricity, without the aid of chain bands or us©
of acid, thus giving no inconvenience to the
wearer. They are charged ready for use, and re-
t.ain their full power for a considerable period.
But to avoid any disappointment by possible
loss of electric power, and to keep the appliances
up to their original strength, we undertake to r®j
charge any of our appliances at the ejKPrrafeoh
twelve months, free of cost. One of the special
features of this treatment is the
which is unsurpassed by its curative properties in
all female complaints, and is of superior shape and
manufacture. Price, 10s. and 15s.
GENT’S ELECTRIC BELTS are manufactured
exDresslv for tropical climates, of superior mat©*
rial, in the shape of a riding belt, and are very
durable. Prioe, iss.; special power, 30s. In order-
ing size of waist outside first garment
If mailed, 3s. extra. Lung Invigorators for th*
successful treatment of all
hitherto without the domain of ElectrhJ Agency
nrice 30s. All who have a tendency to weak lungs
should adopt this treatment before it is tpo late.
The appliances are adapted for local as well as con-
stitutional treatment in the P*
7s 6d each : Spine Bands, 10s. Insoles —which ar*
invaluable for cold feet, defective circulation,
rheumatism—4s. 6d. per pair. Send rize of boot,
or paper pattern of inside ; postage, Is. 6d. extra.
The public are warned against worthless imita-
tions of our goods, as the great success attending
the adoption of this mode of treatment has in-
duced other people to attempt, by so-called oau-
tions and notices, to mislead the public- Therefor*
be careful to see that all goods are marked
“ Magnetical Electric Appliance Co* London and
Sydney.” All correspondence treated with the
greatest dispatch. Cheques and P.O. Orders t©
be made payable to
E. 8. NEILD & CO
158 Pltt-street,
SOLE PROPRIETORS EOR AUSTRALIA.
mo Country Journalists.—Leaders, Telegrams*
'land Sydney Letters, supplied by competent
literary man of long experience, on moderate
l •« Rata *» Tlttt.t/etin Office.
SOMETHINGS- NEW!
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC HAIR CURLER
AND
TOOTH BRUSH.
Ladies or Gentlemen who wish to quickly and
fashionably dress, crimp or curl the hair, beard
or moustache, by a new method, or to possess
sound, white teeth and rosy gums are invited
to read the brief but interesting descrip,
tion of these new inventions
Dr. SCOTT’S
Electric Appliances are now
sold and well known in
every part of the world
and are guaranteed
by the Pall Wall
Electric
Association.
it
GREAT
ANNOYANCE
has been caused
to all people using
tooth brushes by the
bristles coming out in
the mouth. The Pall
Mall Electric Associ
ation now take pleasure
in introducing to the Aus- ....
tralian public a Tooth Brush, which they
guarantee free from this troublesome defect.
The bristles are inserted in the handle by a
patent process, which renders it simply
impossible to come out in use. In ad-
dition to this, the handle of the Brush is
made of a newly invented material perma-
nently charged with an electro-magnetio
current, which acts without any shock
immediately upon the nerv.es and tissues
of the teeth and gums. The act of
brushing causes this current to flow
into the nerve cells and roots of
the teeth, and, like water poured
upon a plant, it invigorates and
vitalizes every part, arresting
decay, building up and re-
storing the natural white-
ness of the enamel and
quickly producing
healthful, rosy-
coloured gums.
The handle is strong,
beautifully polished,
not affeeted bV acids,
impervious to
moisture, and free
from that un-
pleasant musty
odour exu-
ding from
wet bone
handles.
THB
FALL MALL
Electric
ASSOC I A TIUN'
Now offer to the Aus-
tralian public their new
Electric Hair, Beard &
Moustache Curler. It
is a handsome article, nickel-
plated, with an ebonizcd handle, and it
should occupy a place in the toilet of
every lady and gentleman in Australia.
Bv its aid, the hair, beard, or moustache
can be curled in any desired style m from
one to. two minutes. For
the “ Langtry Style,” the I att ’_ ,
“Montague Curl,” and any other styles
desired by ladies wearing their hair 10 tns
fashionable “loose and flufly >«ode.
Those who wear waves or other forms
of artificial hair will ()pd this Electrio
Curler a very useful article. It does
not break off and ruin the hair,
like the ordinary crimping pro-
cess, and in wet or hot weather
it works as quickly as ui cold.
For curling the Moustache
or Beard in a moment, it
has no equal, while it is
so simple in its opera-
tion that any one of
either sex earn use It
successfully the first
time- •
Directions
accompany
each Curler.
Loa mnc, England,
Dr. Scott, New York.
Your “ Crimper and Curler 1
works charmingly. Its effect
causes universal admiration.
They are most simple to use. 1
consider them worth a guinea apiece
to those who devote much attention to
the ever-changing arrangement of the
Hair, L. LANGTRY.
Carlton Club, London, W.
Db. Scott’s " Electric Curler” curls the Moustache
and Beard most perfectly. My wife uses them in
crimping her Hair with pleasing results. Col. D.W.G,
The Royal Dental Society of London testify in the strongest
terms as to the. quick benefits following the use of Dr. Scott’s
Electric Tooth Brush, and many experts in dentistry declare it to
be the greatest invention in dental appliances since the manufacture
of artificial teeth.
Under Royal
and
Health ensured by using
Hr. Scott’s Beautiful Electric
Corsets, Belts, Electric Hair,
Flesh, and Tooth Brushes,
or Insoles.
SiniP
ft
r^EEt
Distinguished
Patronage.
All Goods manufactured
by Dr. Scott bear this label;
BEWARE OP
WORTHLESS '
IMITATIONS*
wire 2s. 6d. each, of all chemists and storekeepers; or the two
direct, post free, for 7s.
Remittances can be made by cheque, F. 0.0., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
54 i9r|arit-itrait f ! Sydnpy.
p.o, BOX. 331.


SLADENESQUE.
We were looking oyer the latest—it would
be fantastic folly to say the last—volume of poems
from the ever-liowiog: lyric spout of Sladen, the
great N.B.W. poet, the Bard of the Rabbit-drive,
the other day. There is in it a large amount of
ihat paralysing quality which Mr. Dariey, Q.C.,
Once described as "wholesome fun." Here, for
instance, is a specimen. Mr. Sladen entitles it,
"The Sigh of the Shouter.” This is how the
“Shouter ” sighs
Give me the wealth I have squandered in “ shout-
ing,”
Scattered in sixpences, paid by the pound,
Ladled out glibly—no grudging or doubting,
Never a thought of the use to be found.
Where are the hours that I wasted so gaily,
Drinking and laughing in front of the bar—
Hours that I spent in mere indolence dally.
Heedless of how it my future might mar ?
Gone, as the sun of the summer has vanished ;
Woe with the winter in hurrying in,
Woe for the waste that can never be banished,
Gone is the glitter, but stayeth the sin.
We wonder how much Mr. Sladen knows of
" shouting ” to mourn over its consequences so
melodiously. Not muoh, we reckon. A man who
is so generous of his rhymes as he is is rarely gener-
ous with anything else. We do not, however,
doubt that he has “shouted” occasionally, and,
therefore, speaks from experience. If so it must
have been for deadbeats who had to be bribed
with beer to listen to his poems. Thunder, what a
lot of money it must have cost him, and how
drunk he must have made his audiences 1 But we
don’t suppose there is anything in this theory
even. Mr. Sladen is the kind of man who evolves
from internal consciousness. He could as easily
identify himself with the internal consciousness
of a tank or a boiler and evolve a soliloquy from
either as a country editor could evolve several
new kinds of snakes and a week in the hospital
out of a keg of rum. It is only fair, howevef,
that we should give him something in return for
having borrowed his poem. Hereunder there is a
companion lyric, which he is at liberty to print
with it in his next edition if he chooses. Let’s see,
tea.
The Sigh or the Spogteii.
Give ifle the time I have squandered in spouting
Dredge-loads of drivelling I Give me the time
I have siring away, flung away* wasted in clouting
My asinine skull for abortions of rhyme I
Where are the lyrics and ode 1 1 have written—
Clenching my teeth in the dead of the night—
ftecklessly printed, and as one mad-dog bitten,
Reckless of whom he may kill with his bite ?
Cdne, as the bray of an ass when he brayeth;
Dead as the corpse in the hurrying hearse;
Gone, and I know it, but with me still stayetb*
As slck’nlng as ever, my vomit of verse.
Hem 1 we think that will do very nicely as a com
panion poem to Mr. Sladen’s. We would suggest*
if he should see his way to uso it, that he should
have it printed on the page opposite his own
poem. It will give a certain amount of variety to
Hhe volume. But we have not Vet done with this
bntranoing work. Mr. Sladen has some lines about
“The Roet,” which begin as under;—
The Poet.
Poet wi-iting, feels nor heat nor cold,
Nor thirst, nor hunger, as he doth unfold,
While his rich mind is open from its hoard,
The gorgeous pageantry with which it’s stored,
Winter or summer outside matters not!
Well, there may be such poets, but we have never
met them. We have met some who may not have
£elt hunger when writing* but the poet has yet to
be constructed by a special miracle who does not
feel thirst. Many a poet we have seen—and a very
good poet at that—whe has been as proud as a
policeman when he has had a tank to himself to
live in and a certainty of ninepence a day to spend
in corned beef and rum. Yet none of these have
eter informed us that they disregarded " heat or
bold, or thirst Or hunger,” in their finest frenzies.
No, Mr.' Sladen, it is one thing to write of these
things in Turkey slippers and a Persian dressing-
gown with a Coal fire in winter and an ice-chest in
Summer, three meals a day “ reg’ler,” and a cellar-
ful of bottled beer and whisky, and another thing
to write of them when they are all around you.
it some day, and see. If the experience does
not kill you it will, perhaps, improve your verse
and save you from killing others. We wish you
good night and better dreams than you have given
us many a time.
All London dogs have now to wear
muzzles. But they have not been long In eduoa«-
ting themselves up to the situation. They wear
their muzzles loose round their necks, and directly
they see a policeman coming they put their nose
lhto them and muzzle themselves.
Alluding to the baby’s well-known habit
Of putting in its mouth everything within reach,
a Sydney journal says “ When they grow older
they quickly learn to distinguish sweetcakes from
bread, or beer from water.’" We re convinced that
the writer of the above would distinguish the
liquids at a tender age, and that the present inter-
mittent water supply causes him no incon-
venience.
A dock labourer was charged at the
Hreenwich police court (F,og), with haviDg ill-
treated a cat and assaulted tne police. He was
fondling the cat outside the Centurion Hotel,
Deptford, and took it into the hotel. Subsequently
he returned to the sidewalk, and remarked the
kitten’s leg was broken. He then bit its head off
and kicked the remains into the gutter. It re-
quired four policemen to take the prisoner to the
lock-up, and he stated en route that he could bite
a child’s head off as easily as a cat’s. He wss
sentenced to three months’ imprisonment. And
yet We send missionaries to Borneo, and soldiers
to thB Soudan. Let us, brethren, send a few
Chinese converts to England on a revival racket.
The Sydney Fbeeman’s Joubnal says that
—“The sanctuary of St. Ann, in Canada, was
Visited last year by 64,000 persons. The miracles
wrought at this shrine are accepted to be many
and great.’’ In the matter of miracles, Australia
has a real grievance. We don’t know a siDgle
place Horn Cape York to Hobart where a person
could go with a fair chance of seeing anything
out of the common; wbi:e there’s scarcely a vil-
lage in Italy, Spain, or Ireland, where any Sunday-
*ohool child, after a full moal, can’t go into
the woods and see the Virgin perched on the
branch of a tree. We’ve been to Knook, and have
seen the whole heavenly choir pass one by one on
the church gable before us. More would have
passed, but that the slides ran out. In German
Alsace last year there was a well where Bt. Peter
appeared and opened business for the cure of
bunions at 10 f rancs a head. But M. Bismarck sent
a file of Prussian soldiers, and the saint gave up—
couldn’t stand the opposition. Dreadful down
that man Bismarck has on miracles,
ART.
liike humour, it, too, is many-
rolficklno^mWhll6B6^ 11 laughI augh for hours over tne
thfi l P«irin in the funny column of
Smnt wttwL T £ e Eu r«Pean. thoroughly
tnnJna Ba Ziu „i*A the Mongolian’s monosyllabic
will glance down the same column of
a ? d «*ooyer in it nothing but
eae s ° with Art. The Japan-
! rSdn sl J e ?t and absorbed before
! with S?Ja r o e & en r tatlon * a i. of bizarre gods and turn
bifnro ®hiowi. m the masterpieces of Raphael
Thua G ft the European stands entranced.
falA in edu °ated to admire the
be can h k * rt to?,^a^+ ct th ® true < just as in literature
Tac^ Q Hhnn™!i?» t J :o J? ref « er the “Adventures of
Row t 0 the “Vicar of Wakefield.”
SSZFW 1 ' th® n * we should be to those Sydney
hw^bT?Af Un i d £ unted by the hard, money-grub-
itv^dn^ffuf+aS CBof an uns y“Pathetic oommun-
wtt’h J their power to inoculate the public
W“h true conceptions of the beautiful-with
rmo-rn ideal 1 Among those who thus
A ev pt® their lives to change the
circus to f atloQ for Pjaater-oasts and
reverence for “black and
wnite or sketohes in pen-and-ink no name stands
Australian °I f ’ jGt Sl ier Batson. Where-
f,oK^xP 8t r ali A n art is mentioned, his name rises
wffnMoi 1 the lips. There was at onetime a
wlhh-spread opinion that the Post-office carvings
notice 6 fmm reiiefs,” which have att?lcted such
fs said f J orelfrn viBl tors, and have, it
the Sa ‘'sV(?nor ,d Q t D , e ,7 departure known as
the Sydney School were from drawings
dragon-fly with a hand-net, especially when there’s
a railway to be crossed with an express train turn-
ing the corner. The knowledge acquired by pur-
suing at the same time science, spiders, and safety
is seldom forgotten. It was found, however, that
as the club s youthful members of both sexes in-
creased, the insects were neglected while the mar-
riage rate went up. A young man and a young
woman who start the day with following flies,
generally end it by following each other. Thus
the Society, launched in the interests of science,
ended in augmenting the census. When the pro-
moters of the club found that the rarest descrip-
spouse and looked coldly on the fleshly foibles of
youth. Similarly the modest maideo, blushingly
sketching 1 some primitively-costumed children
dabbling in the pool before her, finds her nearest
olass-mate a middle-aged, smug-looking man,
whose appearance suggested that his allegiance
was unequally divided between art and alcohol.
* * *
Better, however, than the sketching
“ parties ” is Mr. Watson’s latest idea of what
might be called a “ pictorial charade.” Some
suggestive word, for instance, is hit upon. A few
days afterwards the members met, and, taking
their places at their easels, embody with brush or
pencil their conceptions of the particular word
decided upon. For inst mce, suppose the word to
be “ civilisation.'’ One amateur might draw a
bustling street, another a powerful fleet, a third a
crowded senate, while a fourth—a person, say, of
sacerdotal bias—might typify his idea of civilisa-
tion by a Salvation Army or a Sydney School of Arts
meeting just when a committee-man has been
called a “ liar.” All this must be done in presenoe
of the whole club, no preliminary wora being
allowed, in order that (we quote from a morning
journal) “it shall accustom the artist to a bold
and speedy execution rather than a laboriously
studied one.” So far as some artists are concerned
we have no dount that the Sydney public would
gladly welcome their “bold and speedy execu-
tion”—perform it, in fact. It was some' days ago
that the first trial of this description of art culti-
vation took place. The motif was the word ” .Re-
pose” kindly suggested by Lady Carington, whom
Mr. Watson has secured as patroness. Some
tearful humourjsts (teste Mr. Dailey) have affected
to see in it a touch of satire. There's is no deny-
ing that, as a verb, it might be taken to mean
" keep quiet” or “ shut up,” but it is almost cer-
tain that, as a common noun, it was placed
upon the market. Be that as it may, the
Buggestiveness of the word is apparent. It
offers, too, an immense scope for piotorial
representation. For instance, what would he
repose to one man would be turmoil to another.
After a day’s hard manual labour, a person has
been known to court rest by practising a s ide
trombone. A well-aimed brick, handed to him
through the window by an unmusical neighbour,
gave nim and the street the needful repose.
Oddly enough, not only Mr. Watson’s pupils, but
their master himself, gave, in various ways, of
course, treej. water, and women as their ideas of
quiescence—the very three things that have never
tion of butterfly could sit undisturbed all day on
a fence a lew leet from the young scientists, or
crawl over them without fear of capture, they
saw that it was only by people turned 50 that
Australian entomology could be placed in a satis-
factory position. To return to Mr. Watson. The
sketching' parties inaugurated by him have already
done good work. O wing to a system of unobtrusive
tact, the dangers to which the Melbourne Oub
succumbed were avoided. Young artists of ardent
temperaments found, on raising their eyes from
their easels, that their nearest neighbour was a
mature lady who, wedded to art, was true to her
been known to be quiet. Mr. Watson, we are told,
dashed off a pretty view of Narrabeen lakes, with
lofty trees in the foreground.” Then there were
a ‘ sanded shore,” a ** belt of trees,” a piece of
river scenery,” a “ female at a casement,” and a
girl resting upon a marble terrace.” All the
pieces have been sent to Lady Cariugton tor in-
spection. If a cursory glance at them does not
induce a long and dreamless sleep, it is because her
ladyship’s system defies narcotics.
* * *
But we have it on the Lest authority that
other conceptions, besides those of trees, water,
and females, were embodied by members of the
class. We have seen some of those sketches, and
are somewhat surorised that they have passed
unnoticed by the Press. There was Mr. A.’s work,
made by Mr. Watflon. This we can neither
contradict nor affirm as the artist’s modesty
has kept him reticent, and his silence on
the subject, however to be regretted, is at least
deserving of respect. But at the unfortunately
too rare exhibitions of colonial skill we have seen
some of his works, and do not hesitate to say
that, even in Rome, they would challenge atten-
tion—if only for their bold defiance of those con-
ventional trammels by means of which common-
place men stupidly endeavour to drag their more
gifted fellows down to their own dull level. In-
deed, it is not too much to say that the surprise
expressed by good judges at some of Mr. Watson’s
works, was obviously sincere. We have heard
Sydney art critics—people whose natural tastes
had been educated by constant visits to every gal-
lery from Parramatta to Dubbo—unselfishly re-
gret that, for his own sake, and for the credit of
the colony, Mr. Watson had chosen Australia in-
stead of Italy for the field of his labours.
* * *
Still, it is not of Mr. Watson as an artist,
£ u t as a teacher, that we would sp'rak. It is en-
tirely through him that a new method for com-
bining amusement with instruction bids fair to
be established amongst us. He is the promoter of
sketching parties. These parties resemble in
some features the meetings of the Melbourne
Field Naturalists’ Club. The members of the
latter, it will be remembered, combine exercise
with entomology by going once a week towards
Brighton, Dandenong, and Williamstown in search
of beetles, butterflies, and other coleopterous or
papilionaceous insects. An elderly gentleman, of
good anterior development, or a mature maiden
in spectacles, seldom appears to greater ad-
vantage than when pursuing a new description of
for instance. It represented a policeman on a
doorstep at 3 a.m., and we do not remember to
have seen a more perfect picture of repose. The
empty whisky bottle beside him, and the half-
smoked stumns of cigars around, were singularly
in keeping. Then there was Miss B.’« sketch. Her
id ea of perfect rest; was a Government office at i,
a- m * Mr. C.’s conception was different Vi
took the Botany dam with numerous animal*
floating on the surface as his subject, Butner.
iiaps tne idea which of ail others conveyed th«
truest understanding of the motif was that of
Master D—, Mr. Watson’s favourite pupu it
was simple, too, consisting of a window inside of
which appeared a row of coffins. On a sign-board
over was:— " u#rQ
T. MOULD,
Undertaker.
“Not dead but gone before.”
We have said enough to show that a promising
future is before Mr. Watson’s pupils. If the
person who invents a new pleasure deserves web
ot his country, how much more deserving of
approbation is he who links that pleasure with
instrueuoq? We shall conclude by suggesting a
motif for some future occasion. The word is
suggestive and readily lends
itself to diversity of treatment. Some of the more
volatile of the pupils, it is true, might, through
sheer mischief and a desire to appear smart, re-
present their teacher, but, even if tney do, no one
will more readily join in the laugh than Mr. Wat-
son himself—except the public.
As an example of pre-natal influences in
shaping the habits, we are requested to mention
Strings fa ° fc that nearly aU the children born
during 1880 in the neighbourhood of the railway
Sydney to Parramatta have developed an
odd taste for whistling. Even some of the wee
ones, unlucky enough to come into the world with
hare-lips—a conformation of mouth which makes
the practice trying to themselves and their
hearers-sit up and whistle when pressed bv
hunger, as well as subsequently wheD, filled to
overflowing, they desire a vent for their infantile
jocularity. The cause is assigned to the constant
ft ® e .°t American whistles by the locomotives on
that line. So strong has the tencency become
that many newly-mariied couples have left and
gone towards Botany to give their possible off-
spring a chance of escaping such a doubtful
accomplishment. Prom a psychological stand-
point, the tact we have stated may be instructive,
u 1 doubtful whether citizens yet unborn
should have their musical pre-dispositions moulded
after a particular pattern just to show the genius
of ‘ ft® American people in the matter of railway
wnisties.
In the days of gold,
The days of old,
Crosier of wood
And bishop of gold I
Now we have changed
That law so good.
To crosier of gold
And bishop of wood.
The Canadian physicist, Wiggins, tried his
hand on American storms while Astronomer
Kussell, of Sydney, wrestled wi h Australian ones.
Ih • prognostication of both failed. The Canadian
day that was to up-end the Bunker Hill monu-
ment and shift the Mississippi was the calmest one
known for years oa the North American conti ent.
The gale that was to blow a tunnel through Mount
Kosciusko and raise white horses on the B itany
dam, was lost in the bush near Wagga. A few
years ago Proctor warned us in the Victorian
Review (Mortimer Franklyn’s powerful organ)
about a “ menacing comet" which was to reduce
the earth to a condition analogous to that of an
Irish street after a country fair. But the comet,
having an appointment to keep in reducing the
satellites of Orion to chaos, put off its visit to us
for some osons. The lastest scientific discovery
comes to us from Italy, where an astronomer has
round that the planet Mars is peopled by intelli-
gent beings whose chief occupation appears to
consist in making signs to attract the attention of
the people on earth. Whether they succeed in
80 . w ill depend a good deal on the character
of the signs they make. If they could hit upon
some symbol to show that eleemosynary counter-
lunches and free beer could be had for the asking,
pointing out at the same time the handiest way of
reaching that remote globe, what a number of
openings would be left in the ranks of free-born
Australian citizens!
“ Mount Best,
“Bowral, N.S.W.,
•' 18th December, 1885.
“My i)far Mr. Ives
“ l am writing this to congratulate you and your
family upon your arrival in these sunny lands,
and to express the hope that as ..he Australian
manager of H. ft. Warner and Co/s safe remedies*
you may meet with the success that their merits
so richly deserve.
“Asa public man, who has had to do with large
masses of people, and I trust enjoyed their con-
fi donee, my endorsement and testimonial have
frequently been solicited for remedies of various
kinds, but I have always and firmly refused,
though doubtless some were of real worth.
” However, in the case of H. H. Warner's Safe
Cure, knowing personally the honourable charac-
ter of the llrm, and the intrinsic value of the
medicine, and believing that 1 shall be conferring
a great bemfit on many sufferers, I am willing
that you shall make whatever use of my expe-
rience and testimonial that you may see fir,
“ Early in the year 1880,1 had a severe attack of
illness, caused by liver complaint and general
debility, produced by my mental and platform
labours, and I thought that my work as a tempe*
ranee reformer was at an end.
*-‘l4* 1 * ad Put into my hand a
bottle of Warner a Sate Cpre, and began at once
its use, experiencing relief from the start, and was
speedily restored to my usual health, and con-
tmued so until, in the year 1883, when, in the
midst of a world of work in England, I was again
prostrated by my old enemy. I made application
at once for a case of the Safe Cure, and was sup-
plied from the London branch of the house, and
experienced the same results as at first, I have
since kept the remedy in the house, but I am
thankful to say have hid no occasion to use it.
Again wishing you everything that is good
and kind, I am, faithfully yourp,
„ TV, A* T T=. “ft. T. BOOTH.
•TohnM. Ive?, Esq, ’
Look for £1 orders in large bottles of Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Don’t me stimulants, but nature’s brain and
Der J e K foo £ —H '? p fitters. Beware of all except
made by American 00. See *
.„, No * ti i 3e '-Reliable Old Australian Wines,
r?i?^ a e^X! nt S? e^’i^ or invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Hockings, 148 Pitt-street.
t ‘A W A hite Ri P r > W ’ T ’» October 21, 1888.-Dr.
J. c, Ayer and "'o. Gentlemen,—My wife suffered
ov<rzO years with rheumatism in her bipa and
°i J^ e ? ding y°ur a manic she positively
hor ltV ‘sha t ho t + y i? ur f SARS^PARILIiA woui d cure
her. She has taken four bottles, and is now as
well as ever she was in her life. 1 feel it my duty
to send you my sincere thanks.—C.Engeloen


4
MARKUS
•If
IV Stout.—This farourite brant
N of SJH* selected with great care from tut
A «h Ul o?, < L breir l n E B of the celebrated Arm of
'Mothers*?? 8 hod 00., Dublin, and therefore
T° be procured ererrwhor*.
sole Arena.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
J) ,r fUNG THE CURRENT MONTH,
and
*‘RIOR TO THE ARRIVAL
15 ATIT UMNr SHIPMENTS, EXPECTED
U EE BE3E ON OR ABOUT THE Ist of
MARCH,
1 ‘ APES & SHAW
Sell the Balance
'heir Summer Stock
at
Reduced Prices.
y Prt | A R' duelior sin Trimmed Millinery
* Reductions in Untrimmed Straw
e ' ial deductions in Children’s Costumes
Inductions in Lace and Muslin Cur-
p ’auis
r(<! t, { Inductions in Summer Dress Mate-
-1 <ais
, EADTRS SHOULD TRY OUa SUPERIOR
p n Q CLOrxi3 i SPECIALLY MANUFACTURED
j 1 EerURS’ AND CBILDREN S WEAR, NINE-
irV^ SRIl ‘ snd SIXPENCE the PIECE
° lll Y YARD 3 EACH.
defies’ Umbrellas,
** Vr.GEs ”, the
CHOICEST,
and
CHEAPEST
STOCK IN THE COLONIES.
PBPESIi SHIW,
Dr, , *
32G, 328 George-street.
w *
RAM VASELINE.
m
A
h (l and Preserving Horses’ Hoofs.
f R a i Us . Parasites, and prevents their growth,
y.'tts Preservative it is invaluable—pre-
frortj Y, cracking, and renders it waterproof.
[ r at H j ,’ s anti-corrosive qualities, uneqallea as a
e ir, av prctector, and for keeping in perfect order
L’Sbd f® 8 * Machines, &c. It is the sole material
u enn ~r the above purposes in the Austrian and
tte her? armi ®B. Sold by all Saddlers and Store-
SOLE AGENTS :
fUCKBURIi & CO.p
’ 'SALE SADDLERS’ IRONMONGERS,
Tork-street, Sydney.
manufacturing hatters
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
-ttoPBRTERSTTF AU TH Er
NEWEST SHAPES.
w.
M. WALLACE,
Lit mporteir of every description of
e Kiture, Law, Mercantile and
Jw Fancy Stationery.
1 aa< WaiMhm rmITM by
Mail.
AROADI, GIORGI w«
IN BYDNIY
Foster’s Bugle Brand.
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
1
:&
jtfASS FJJUJI JILM
The BUT ALB and STOUT in the Market
■OLD BT ALL STOBBKBBPBBB AND WIN*
MBBOHANTg.
Wholesale Agents:
W. Balchln, Johnston & Co.,
Commercial Chambers,
BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
mHE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER.
ITS ADVANTAGES OYER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY, EASE,
CONVENIENCE, ECONOMY,
tar- THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER saves
labour, stationery, and time, writing much
faster than expert penmen, and condensing matter
to less than one-half the space occupied by pen
writing. Beautiful copies may be taken in the
usual manner in the letter-press. Merchants,
bankers, solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors,
reoorters, and all men of business should use the
type-writer, and save much valuable time.
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY and CO„
86 Clarence-street.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT Of PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital *300,00#
Reserve Fund £155,000
DlRlOTORfl:
1.G.M.G., Chaim an.
M.L.O.
Auditors :
The Hon. Sir John Hay/I
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird. Es
Hon. Philip Gidley
0. ttol'iwHtoit, Esq., C.M.i
Jts. Soroffffie, Bsq.
H. H. Oohen, Esq.
Gbnxbal Makagbb:
F. A. A. Wilson.
SICfRWTABT:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfem. Gosford, Nyngr* n,
Bourke, Manly. Parramatta, St. Leonards, and
Newcastle.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G
Geo. P. Slade, Baq*
Geo. H. Alexander, Baq.
■b : fcteo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankxrs :
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Flnan
olal Agency Business on the most favourable terms
Bills discounted dally.
Bills negotiated and advanoes made against Woo.
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
D"'RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
„ v , Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it./
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
GOULET CHAMPAGNE.
OP UNRIVALLED PURITY AND
EXCELLENCE.
Thus characterised by one of the highest medloal
authorities “ Its qualities are of a very high
order; it possesses a charming boquet, fruity and
pronounced ; essentially a dry wine without attenu-
ation, and free from acidity: full and crisp”
TRAPP $T ELLES,
6 Bridge Street, ‘Sydney,
Agents for New South Wales.
DK. BOYD,
52 CASTLEREAGH-STREET, SYDNEY
(Upstairs),
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
Registered Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours:
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday, Wednesday;
and Saturday Evenings 7 to 9.
Deformities, Nervous, and Female Diseases
Specialty,
dfgh
Barry’s Tricopherous.
Guaranteed to make the
ha r grow on hald heads, to
eradicate scurf and dan-
druff, and remove all im-
purities from the scalp. It
positively prevents the hair
from falling out or turning
gray, and in every case
makes it thick, soft, glossy,
and abundant.
BARRY’S
FLORIDA WATER.
The Original and the Best.
Tne only perfume in the
world that has received the
endorsement of a Govern-
ment. Put up in three sizes.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
8. Hoffnung and Co.
USTRALIAN MUTUAL EIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1872.
per C6nt. paid annually since 1873.
A
Capital—Jlloo,i
f ■)••■■■ .
••r
o**® Head Offices.
First Fire Society established la me colony on
the Mutual principle, Riving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year.
Policy-he ders are perfectly free by law from
all liability
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates
WALTER CHURCH, Manager
Head Offices—PlTT and KING STREETS.
A. ft G. HUENERBEIN,
ROYAL
PIANOFORTE
AND
Music Warehouse,
818 6EORGE STREET.
Sole Agents for
John Brinsmaad & Son’s
Celebrated Pianos.
Pianos sold on terms to suit purchasers.
tW THE LATEST MUSIC AT HALF PRICE.
J. MURPHY’S
Central Loan and Discount
Offices,
CORNER OF KENT & LIVERPOOL STREETS,
lippcsl George-street.
Money Lent at the esfc ii&te of Interest
In tlm city.
Loans from Is. to £lOOO, at 10d. in the £
per Month.
Loans on Gold and Silver Jewellery, Clothing, and
every description of Portable Property, granted
at t ates never before attempted in this Colony.
American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murphy's Central Lsan and Dis-
count Offioes, corner of Kent and Liverpool streets
opposite George-street.
THE AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIVE STOCK
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital ... £lOO,OOO.
Head Office: Melbourne.
Victorian Directors Thomas Learmonth, Fsq.,
Chairman; John L. Dowi Esq., M.L.A.; J. F
! Levien, Esq., M.L.A.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs Insured
against death.
Marine Risks accepted on Live Stock (oovering
mortality); also on Merchandise and Hulls.
New South Wales Branch: ITI Castlereagh-street.
H. 8. PAdGERY, Managing Director.
H. M. HAMILTON, Manager.
4s&slk
€
$
*
A
-#
Or o'??
/W
**Vv°'**°V
V>
vV v
<r \> *
Messrs. S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Agents.
DR. BRIGHT'S PHOSPHODYNE
The only Reliable Remedy for Mental and Physical
Depression, Nervous, Debility, Incapacity for
Study, Loss of Energy Sick Headache, Indigestion,
Female Complaints, Premature Decline, and is a
marvellous medicine for renovating impaired and
broken down constitutions. It operates on the
system without exciting care or thought upon the
individual a*' to the process. It moves the lungs,
liver, h«c -fr, kidney, stomach, and intestines, with
a harmony, vlgcir, yet mildness unparalleled in
medicine, and is the most powerful blood purifier
of the present day Bold by all chemists.
5 -utS-BmOTT Bbos,
vuoDirii,
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a large and varied Stock of
FIREARMS,
manufactured by the most celebrated English
Bi&kcrSt
G. B. M, further desires to apprise his customer*
of the fact that he has been appointed AGENT foi
the following Firms.'—JOHN RIGBY & CO.,
_.. , . iahi Lon-
don: THOS. BLAND & SON., London: JOSEPH
LANG & SON, London; CHAS. OSBORNE
CO., London.
G. B. M. is also AGENT for the eminent linn
BCBSY & CO., London.
Game Bags, Gun Cases, Cartridge Belts, &c., and all
M . n “®L of Sportsmen’s Requisites for the field.
Faithfully Guaranteed at
All Goods will be
802 George.st., Sydney
Where Inspection is Invited.
THE FRESH FOOD AND ICE 001" S AN?
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
Af
Mo. 23 Royal Arcade,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &o„ with
light refreshments.
At this Branoh, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agonoy to
“KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pplmo
nary complaints.
Fresh Food &
Head Office.. ..
Stables
Factory
fee Co., Limited,
.. m 31 Harbour-stree*
MS .. Liverpool-atreet.
.. ... Mlttagong.
New Central Dispensary,
53 MARKET STREET,
vwo doors from Evening News Office
(Opposite Farmer’s).
T. JONES & CO.,
Ph. C., M.P.S., and A.P.S., England
(LATE T. ELLIS, M.P.S.)
Prescriptions prepared by qualified Chemists only
at Reform Pricer.
Branch Houses:
Crown Street, Tram Terminus, Sydney,
and Suva, riji.
Orders sent by post promptly
Medicines forwarded to any part o
Pills, Powders, and Medicines (not
be sent by pddt.
ted.
.. ; can
E P P, S ’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCO A
MASON BROTHERS
■ - Pi
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent Street,
Sydney,
Here always in STOCK, for SALS
to the TRADE and WHOLE
BALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AMD
EARTHBN WARE,
WINES, BEERS, AMD SPIRITS
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SON
Old Highland Whisky
J. BORIN and OO.’B
Cognac.
J.T.GA YEN’S
Schnapps and Genera.
A. MELVINand SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
jSSB* AH V* MJ M.IWJ S
'"UPHOF^BIA^
Queensland Cure
\<
Asthma,*Brcnchttis A
* Coughs, * 1
3^ WJ1 [t.re»
rry, PRCfAfftO'ONUV BY VJ J
Thomas Ingham W
Rockhampton
übqmju
,h.*i
tdiak


M
m
f£R
nR
IMP
SOP
cE s
Sue
WATCHES JEWELRY
£ L E C T RO- P LATr
fcCjSS*
1
A
BONA-FIDE REDUCTION
a 34i GeorgeS t Sydney
_ -V AND AT
14 B O URKE S T , EtM EL BO UR N E
/
z
A
l
£
FOR GENERAL DEBILITY AND NERVOUSNESS,
FOR INDIGESTION OR EXHAUSTION.
FOR FEVERS AND LOSS OF APPETITE,
ALL CONVALESCENTS, _
At all Druffßlits and Chemist*.
dbikki* 1
DSINK
drink J* 1
DRINK IT I
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
s
COCOA
i
FEY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.—Lanobt.
m
WS
:
DR. O CONNELL,
52 Casfiereagh Street,
SYIDILTZE-Sr, UST.S.W.
A REGULAR GRADUATE in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N. S. W., whose
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all private cases, chronic,
nervous, skin and special diseases,
DR. O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion, costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent by post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is frankly stated. Especial attention to i
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence,
producing some of the following effects:—Ner-
vousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples on the Face, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of Pleasure in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Pains in the Back, Stunted Development, &c., are
treated with unparalleled success. Cures per-
manent, “Sal'S, and private. Symptom list free, and medicines sent by post.
Skin Diseases, Itching, Burning, Scaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptlon'3
of evqry kind, from whatever cause, promptly oured.
It is self-evident that a physician paying particular attention to a class of cases attains great skill,'
and physicians in regular practice all over the country knowing this, frequently recommend cases to
this oldest office in Australia, where every known appliance is resorted to, and the proved good
remedies of all ages and countries are used. On account of the great number of "cases applying, the
charges are kept low—often lower than is demanded by others. If you secure the skill, and get a
speedy and perfect life cure, that is the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free. Call on or
* ddress DOCTOR JT. O CONNELL,
52 Castlereagh Street (ground floor), Sydney.
BUDGEREE! BUDGEREE!!
Trade
iS
o.
'‘m,
CMzfi
Es
1C
-• *
■\v
Mark.
2TO MORE FEVER.
The BUDGEREE DISINFECTANT is the most wonderful Germ-killer and
destroyer known. No household should be without it, as it instantly kills all v°
smells arising from closets, bad drains, &c. Sold at all'chemists. '
Depot: JAS. C. STEEL, Bullefln-lana, Lower Pitt-s 1 '
■OOBEBTjBUTOHEiR * 0.0.
v (Late William Long).
mr WINS AND SPIRIT MB aOHANT,
584 GKORGB BTRBBTV
OPPOSITI THB TOWN HALL. BKDNIY
Country Orders receive prompt,attent ion.
COOLALTA WINES)
SILVER MED All .pORDEAUA*
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 Q-eorge-strc^
(Beneath Paling’s.)
IISTMESTS!
HOLLIhG & SPANOENBEFG PIANOS.
ZEITZ LEIPZIG
(Piano Makers to the Imperial Court of Germany).
PR'ZE OVER-
STRUNG PIANOFORTES.
This high-class Pianoforte combines the Latest
Improvements with Economy of Price, and can
be had on application to the appointed agency,
G. J. WELLS,
1, Hunter Strßet, Sydney,
from whom mav be had prices and terms to meet
ali demands. Also, all kinds of German makers,
Birds.
THE STANDARD ORGANS,
at very low prices and terms.
0 . J a W E LL.S,
l Hunter-street, S|rfnsy.
LACH BROS.
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND /
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION
WALLACH BROTHERS
AFTeil BEFORE
hted. '
MQEuTACEE and WHIGEE3S.
Boyd's Beard F.llxirdid this, and
1 tffill do i 4 on cither bald head or
bars /ace. Forest heavy Mohs.
tacne in from 2 to 4 weeks and never ,
/a Us, 21)BOO young men already
- - - toear full beards, having used 1 to
3 pkts. No injury, easily applied, tertain in effect.
each, 3 for 3s. Oil., post paid . cover, free from observation.
'Address, Frank Douglas, Sole Agfnt, Box 730,0.P.0., Sydney,N.S. W-
IEFOna AFTETt
Copyrighted
Packets la. 6d
p. Kirby,
* ,om te Mr. Jamis Cobtis,
.ertsQcer,
■4 BtmrS A & PHILLIP ITKESTB.
FUNKS/ tLS NBATLY HXHGUTID.
N.B.—Mr.
Mr. James
Manager for
firby was in the employ of the
.urtis for sixteen (16) y
for sixteen
over ten (10) years.
yean;
BLAKE'S IHPRO* s
STEAM PUMP^
H. P. GREGORY & dll'
17 PITT STREET'
SYDNEY,
ARB SOLE AGENTS FOR TUB
A SO
iY*
and have In Stock and to antr***
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SERVICE PUM? S
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR & CIRCULATING
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING PUMPS
BBND FOR PRICKS AND ALL PABTIC
01^
CATALOGUES FORWARDED
V#**
TJT „ Hnw •
LATE ROWLANDS f f LEWIS>
Manufacturer ® f ail ratsd Waters, Corsf j a g s and gutters, and Proprietor of Vigorlao,
BALLARAT, MELBf ) TT pvTf OTlr , „ +
31 AND 33 HUNTED/STREET, SYDNEY.
Ca/cutta Exhibition awarded the Only Go/o Medal for /Erated and /Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs, Bitters, & c
