

The Bulletin
Vol. 7-No. 35 1.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1886.
Price,, 6d,
Jl IWX
pop Hm
f
The New Joan of Arc.


THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 PITT-STKEKT, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Terms to subscribers
(Payable in Advance.)
Per annum ~ .. ~ .. £1 Os. Od.
Half-yearly ~ .. ~ ~ 0 12s. Od.
Quarterly .. ~ ~ .. 0 6s. fid.
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters payable
to
J. M. HARDING,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements, and remit-
tances should he addressed.
Postage-stamps of any Australian colony accepted for
Amounts under £1
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
correspondence column all contributions submitted—whether
in the form of political, social, or other articles, verse, short
tales or sketches, paragraphs, letters, or newspaper-clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly cofldential.
Thf. Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible fdr the preservation or transmission of such
MSS.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling in advance— which you may pay by Post Office
Order, One-pound Note, or stamps of any Australian colony
—you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
Week for a year.
Now, by special arrangements, we are enabled to make the
following offer, open to all subscribing direct to this office,
between September 1 and December 31, 1886.
Anyone sending the cash for six yearly subscriptions, will
be entitled to a bonus of twenty shillings. Postmasters and
other agents will understand that we will send £1 to anyone
forwarding us six prepaid yearly subscriptions.
This offer is nst open to residents of Sydney. In that city
THe Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in
the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
ere.
IMPORTANT.
tile publisher will consider it a favour if any reader
df The Bulletin will forward him the name and
address Of any newsdealer who is not selling this paper.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1886.
The Progress of Protection.
When, among a number of people of equal
intelligence and equal means for ascertain-
ing the truth, all but one agree in pursuing
a certain route, the inference is that it is the
best road. When, in addition, it is seen
that the person who has struck out a path
for himself frequently pauses on the way as
if dubious whether, after all, he is on the
tight track, the inference is proportionately
strengthened. This is a fair illustration of
the position of the world’s leading com-
munities regarding the rival theories of
Free-trade and Protection. But this is not
all. For the sake of argument it may be
admitted that the route chosen by the odd
person is best adapted for him. Still it by
no means follows that it is equally suitable
for the others. Alone among the nations
England pursues a certain fiscal policy.
Even she does not adopt it in its entirety, as
at the present moment a large portion of her
immense revenue is obtained through the
Oustom-house. To vehemently insist then
that she only is right and all the others
iyrong is surely the height of unreason.
Yet this is precisely the argumentative plan
embraced by those clever people who possess
the useful faculty of seeing so much farther
than their neighbours. The same argu-
ments that led Coßden and his school to per-
ceive in unrestricted barter the true high way to
national prosperity are accessible to the law-
makers of France, Germany, Italy, Austria,
and America. If the latter have rejected
them, or but accepted them with important
modifications, it is merely idle to assign such
rejection or qualified acceptance to stupidity.
The cause lies deeper.
* * *
In his wonderful fragment “ The History
pf Civilisation in England,” Buckle adopts
in their entirety the teachings of Smith,
Ricardo and the more recent economists.
He regards them as axiomatic and evinces
some impatience, not free from contempt,
towards those unfortunate enough to betray
symptoms of disagreement. By means of
a singularly felicitous style ho carries the
reader along till the writer’s assertions
assume all the semblance of demonstrations.
But it should not be forgotten that if he
made a mistake in one particular he was
quite as likely to make it in another. And
no greater blunder was ever made by a first-
class writer than his when, after the Great
Exhibition of 1851, and even after the
declaration of war against Russia in 1854, he
asserted that hostilities between advanced
nations were things of the past. To show
that the invasion of the Crimea did not
affect his dictum he pointed out that the
peace was broken by the two most backward
countries in Europe—Russia and Turkey.
The inference of course was that more
enlightened nations would know better.
Since the appearance of his views the fairest
lands in both hemispheres have been ravaged
by war—war not between barbarians, but
between nations in the van of civilisation.
This singular unhappiness in his prognostica-
tion in one direction should make us care-
ful how we receive his opinions in another.
The fact is, he, like many before and since,
started with a theory to uphold, marshalled
in ingenious array the facts in favour of his
hypothesis and with discreet silence passed
over those opposed to it. This method has
its advantages, but sincerity is not one of
them. Yet it is the plan that of all others
finds most favour in the eyes of rabid free-
traders.
* * *
Take an instance. That Mill was one of
the most powerful writers on the Free-trade
side none will deny. But having admitted
in his principles of political economy that
under certain circumstances a young country
might be Justified in imposing import duties,
he was never forgiven by Coburn. The
latter on his death-bed said that the harm
done to the cause by this one admission out-
weighed all the good to be found in the
remainder of the work. To the Manchester
evangelist the question of the truth or falsity
of the statement was of little moment. He
judged it by the standard, not of accuracy,
but of expediency. 11 was not—was such an
admission due ? but was it wise ?
* * *
What are the peculiar characteristics of
the two systems ? These : Free-trade teaches
you to rely upon others ; Protection to de-
pend upon yourself. It is impossible for a
nation, just as it is for an individual, to
depend entirely on itself unless it embraces
every variety of climate and soil. If the
people in Tasmania require pine-apples they
must either get them from abroad or grow
them at ruinous expense in hot-houses. So
far, then, as pine-apples are concerned, the
Tasmanians are forced to depend upon
others. But suppose they have thick seams
of coal and broad lodes of iron running
through their island, is there any real neces-
sity why their pumps should come from
England and their ploughs from Belgium ?
The Free-traders say there is. Thay say,
‘ ‘ While you are making bad ploughs and
charging a high price for them, you might be
earning a greater wage at some calling for
which your island is naturally fitted, while
the workmen of England and Belgium sup-
ply you with iron-work at a lower figure
than you can supply yourselves. The benefit
would thus be mutual. You would get cheap
goods and they cheap material. This is the
great lesson of Free-trade. It seems simple
and reasonable enough, does it not ? But
bring it closer, examine it more carefully,
follow it, and sec where it will land you.
* * *
If the whole world consisted of one
homogeneous nation—like England or France
—speaking the same language, obeying the
same laws, and governed from the same
centre ; if there were no such things as
national likes or dislikes, and men were in-
different as to -whether they resided within
the Asiatic circle or within the tropics, a
good deal might be said in favour of the
doctrine of untrammelled trade. But such
is not the case, and we must deal with man
as he is, not as he might be. It would be far
better if arbitration not arms were the ulti-
mate appeal of nations; but the country
which acted on this idea and spiked its can-
non might find itself in a very unpleasant
position. The interest that men take in
their fellows depends largely on distance.
A few years ago some millions of people were
swept away by a famine in India. Those
who have experienced hunger themselves or
seen its effect upon others know what this
means. But the terrible visitation caused
less concern in Australia than a telegram
reporting a fall of rain on the Darling. The
appearance of one thousand unemployed in
our streets is of more moment to us than the
news that a hundred thousand are out of
work in Belgium. Whether it is right that
men should feel more elated by the pros-
perity or depressed by the misfortunes of
their own country than with the success or
failure of other lands is beside the question.
Let us accept the fact and see what lesson it
teaches.
* * *
If each nation followed the pursuits, for
which it was specially adapted, and those
alone, England would be a pastoral and agri-
cultural country of six or eight millions of
people. Her coal and iron deposits are in-
significant compared with those of China
where beds exist thousands of square miles
in extent. To the Englishman who set
about building a furnace the economists
would say, “leave that to the Chinese, where
labour is so cheap and nature so prodigal.
You can never meet the Mongolian in the
world’s markets. Stick to your spade and
shepherd’s crook.” The consequence would
be that the world’s argosies would be found
riding in the Yang-tse-kiang v not in the
Thames. The same with America. To her
England says ‘ ‘ Go west and grow wheat.
Send me your grain and I shall pay you in
manufactures. You have great mineral
lodes, it isjtrue, but the rate of wages is too
high for you to work them advantageously.”
The American answer is “ We cannot all be
wheat growers. Somebf us are-not adapted
for it—it is uncongenial to others. We want
diversity of employment for our people's© as
to be complete in ourselves and give every
one a chance to follow whatever calling he
wishes. You may have to defend yourself
against a European coalition, have your
waters invaded by hostile cruisers, and your
trade with us interrupted or destroyed. You,
when it suited you, threw away the protec-
tive crutch on which you had leant for cen-
turies. When our time comes we may do
the same. By protecting our industries we
know we have to pay higher for many
articles, but we are prepared to do so in view
of the future. To buy cheaply and sell dearly
is an important maxim, but there are others
more important .still. ”
* * *
Such werovthe considerations that led the
Americans to adopt a protective policy in
the face of the economists’ abstractions.
They are precisely those that prompted
Canada and Victoria to follow in their foot-
steps and that have now secured such a firm
footing in New South Wales as to make
inevitable a change of fiscal policy in the
immediate future. The stupid misstate-
ment that protectionists are swayed by self-
ishness and ignorance are too obviously un-
true to deserve serious refutation. The
means for obtaining information on the
subject is open to them just as well as to
their opponents. If they reject the teach-
ings of Smith and his school it is through no
crassness of disposition, no inability to
follow and comprehend the argument from
start to finish. Some of the leaders among
those opposed to free-trade readily admit
that under certain circumstances the latter
system is clearly indicated, while there
are circumstances under which it is
quite as clearly inapplicable. The cardinal
error made by the advocates of unrestricted
commerce is to be found in the assertion
that their code is of universal application
like a geometrical axiom—that it is equally
adapted for societies in all stages of develop-
ment. “Do not coddle your industries,”
they say complacently ; “ let them grow
naturally ” —and, having said so, they com-
fortably consider that all objections have
been answered. But they might have gone
a step further and pointed out where things
were to be found which did not require
“coddling” at some period of their exist-
ence. A time may come when, owing to the
organisation of labour, consequent on the
growth of the Socialistic idea, all restrictions
on exchange may be removed—a time when
men will no longer be obliged to toil
and sweat for a pittance just enough to
keep life in them. But it is not yet,
nor is it in sight. To-day we have but to
look through our office windows to see, in a
fruitful country capable of supporting forty
or fifty times the number of its present in-
habitants, a couple of thousand able-bodied
men marching through the streets of the
capital seeking employment. If, as our op-
ponents say, Free-trade did not cause this,
our reply is that it did not prevent it. Of
this we are assured — the absorption of all
our surplus labour and of much more besides
would follow quickly on the imposition of a
stiff tariff. It has done so in Canada ;it has
done so in Victoria, and so it will do in New
South Wales when those who have to trust
to labour for their bread are sufficiently ad-
vanced and organised to recognise the fact
that, in national as in family affairs, charity
begins at home.
Sir James Martin—Late Chief Justice
of New South Wales.
With the harness of office on his back, with brain
iihrested from recent legal labours but dwelling
still on the task of the morrow, with hands still
blessing against the Sisyphus-stone of judicial
' duties, Sir James Martin finished his life-strug-
gle. It is but a few days since he told the jury in
the Wrigiit-Heaton case that ho would take care
that the trial before him should not last so long as it
did in the inferior court, and -now the trial is in-
complete though the judge has departed ! The
death of the man was suchas befitted his character
and the tenor of his life. A feebler will would
have accepted the warnings of repeated illness ; a
weaker mind would have shrunk from a conflict
whose termination was certain and apparent. But
it was not in him to turn aside because of dangers
that lined his path. Throughout his life opposi-
tion to his pre-determined course was but a stimu-
lant to his energy; so in the last days when
disease opposed his intent, he battled with this new
adversary and was overthrown. His imagination
could not contemplate an old age of well-pen-
sioned indolence. Dum vivimus vivamus was the
motto which controlled and limited his life.
* *
Mentally he was without question a great man
and a strong man. As a lawyer, capable of
occupying a place amongst the most re-
nowned in the Old JWorld ; as a writer, when not
overborne by passion, worthy of comparison with
the most skilled ; and as a statesman, in the fore-
most rank of those whose names are recorded in
the annals of the Parliaments wherein he figured.
His faults were chiefly those which resulted from
the consciousness of his brain-power and the
brilliancy of his career. Strong in the belief of
the inferiority of other minds, his determination
overlapped his prudence, developing into obsti-
nacy; and, reassured by continued success he became
contemptuous in habit, and abusive in language.
Ambition under these influenees assumed abnor-
mal proportions, and dominated his middle life.
In spite of many difficulties he had successively
become a lawyer, a member of Parliament, a
Minister, a barrister, a Premier, and Chief Jus-
tice ; yet th%sum of these honours did not satisfy
him, and in aspiring to the Lieutenant-Governor-
ship he'experienced the most signal reverse in the
history of his career. He doubtless considered,
and with Strong reason, that, as Chief Justice, the
honour when conferred should have been his, but
this fact jsjsmall palliationof his peremptory de-
mand for the appointment! In this, as in many
other hases,,his ; ambition urged Jiim to seize as a
trophy, rather than wait anchreceive as a gift, the
honour which his talents had’fairly earned.
* * *
As his’faults were chiefly the result of his rapid
advancement in life, so his, were mainly
attributable to the ''accident of birth. In his
early life the population of New South, Whiles was
composed*, entirely of two-classes—the convicts
and the-men who had been sent out to rule them.
The thirds element, immigrants unconnected with
either of the former classes, was inconsiderable, and
even upon theseWiatter a modicum of suspicion
rested, for a convict colony is not generally the
resort of men who are free tef choose their place of
habitation. Under these circumstances it is not
strange that the official section who could boast
of y ancestry and prove by record their? reason for
emigrating, shrank with aversion from the re-
mainder of the community, and sneeringly as-
serted that no good thing could come out of this
Nazareth of convictism. The free were con-
founded in the estimation of these haughty patri-
cians with the bondmen, the innocent with the
guilty, and were joined in a common condemna-
tion. Thence arose the desire of the patricians to
monopolise all power in the Council and the law
courts. When, therefore, Mr. Martin began to
make a reputation for himself as a lawyer, the
ruling class sneered at him as an upstart; whei
he, in defiance of the prevailing prejudice, aspirei
to and won a seat in the Council, they used all their
power for his expulsion. Ultimately he triumphed
but the opposition which he as a novus harm
encountered had transformed him into a fierce
Tory. To clear himself of the stigma attaching to
the lower class he had to make common cause
with the patricians. And to this course there
were other incentives, for in a community where
half the population wore prisoners it was almosl
impossible to realise that all men had equa;
rights, or that everyone should have a voice in the
government of the country. Thus it was that
Mr. Martin, with all the instincts of an ad
vaneed Liberal, became a zealous and uncompro-
mising Tory. He was a fierce opponent of univer
sal suffrage, and a strong advocate for the reten-
tion of a property qualification for legislative re
presentatives, although, strangely enough, he
himself went into the Council on a bogus qualifl
cation, extended to him by a political patron, but
disallowed by the select committee appointed to
report on his election. By him also the Treason
Felony Act, which made refusal to drink the
Queen’s health a misdemeanor punishable with
two years’ imprisonment, was placed upon the
Statute Book of New South Wales. No ex-
citement of the time can excuse the in-
famy of this Act; it was the direct out-
come of the tyranny of an era of convict-
ism—an era whose influences still avail to leave
upon the criminal code of this colony, the shame-
ful signs of primitive savagery. A Tory in the
House, Sir James was a Tory on the Bench as far
as he could be such without departing by a hair’s-
breadth from the letter of the law. An intense
veneration for all constituted authority, and an ex-
treme reverence for all time-honored usages, were
noticeable in many of his most luminous deliver-
ances, and great lawyer as he was, he would have
achieved yet higher reputation and honour if his
Conservatism had been less pronounced,
* * *
Yet with all this his mental powers and gener-
ous sympathies moved him to plan and legislate
for the benefit of the lower classes. Onc-half of
the Democratic formu 1 a had his full assent; he
believed in “Government of the people for the
people,” but never by the people. He would give
them all social rights possible, but strove to with-
hold the political power inherent in universal
suffrage and the ballot-box, by which those rights
could be maintained. The method of governing
the masses which he favoured was a species of
benevolent despotism. Like all men who re-
fuse to entrust power to the masses, he over-
estimated their vindictiveness, and to such an ex-
tent was this error carried that at one time he
retained the Naval Brigade to defend his own
house against some visionary attack.
* * *
Now that the great man has fallen, it is plea-
santer to contemplate his robustness of character
than his weaknesses. To review his attacks upon
Sir George Gipps and Sir Charles Fitzroy,
whom he assailed in language which for bitter-
ness and vehemence can only be compared with
the Ciceronian orations against Catiline ;to
dwell upon the impassioned eloquence of his early
days in Parliament, and to notice the bold avowal
which explained his alliance with Sir Charles
Cowper. This is an extract from his article on
Sir George Gipps :
“To level all social distinctions, and reduce to the same
degradation, the educated and the ignorant, the elegant and
the vulgar, the honest and the dishonest, the moral and the
depraved. ... To accomplish this, he invited to partake
of his and his lady’s hospitality, people of all classes and
every grade of immorality, and insulted such persons of
social consequence and refined habits as he persuaded to
visit him, by admitting to the same room with them, persons
of whom Cicero's description of Cati vine’s associates
presents a strictly accurate idea—or if it does not exactly cor-
respond, it is only because it falls short in comprehensiveness
—because the associates of the abandoned and profligate
Romap were more respectable than those of His Excellency
Sir George Gipps
And of Sir Charles Fitzroy he also wrote in the
Atlas thus;—
"Sir George Gipps, with all his faults, drew some dis-
tinction, however flimsy it may have been—but Sir Charles
Fitzroy draws none. Nobody is too low—nobody is too
ignorant—nobody is too degraded for his most familiar in-
tercourse. The most shameless prostitution—the most aban-
doned profligacy—the most notorious immorality—oppose no
barrier against admission to his house. He recognises no
beauty in virtue—no deformity in vice: but treats them both
with an equal share of his regard. He introduces the one to
the society of the other, and does his utmost to degrade it by
the unaccustomed and repulsive contact. The most irre-
proachable he has invited to meet the most abandoned. In
short, he has commenced a career which, unless it be at once
checked by the powerful voice of public opinion, will upset
the morality and decorum of the land !”
In explaining the reason of his alliance with Sir
Charles Cowper, he did not scruple to say
“ Now, from the circumstances to which I have called at-
tention, it will be manifest to everybody that the hon. mem-
ber (Mr. Cowper) and I did not meet together in that way
because our past conduct showed that we had anv strong
political feelings, or because our past conduct showed that
wc had any personal regard for each otl er, but it was because-
—and I do not see any reason why I should not state the-
exact truth—we felt ourselves indispensable to each other,,
because he could not form his Government without me, and.
because I could not succeed in putting that Government out,
of office which I thougnt ought not to be there, except by
co-operation with him. That was the reason. It was from
so communion of principle ; it was from no feelings of
personal regard, but because of the necessities of our opposi-
tion—because he could not carry out the views he desired
without my aid, nor I mine without his. That was the
origin of our co-operation.”
In these days of Parliamentary degradation, when
a policy of sneak seems to rule the House, it is re-
freshing to read so straightforward a declaration.
Even in those former days such hluntness was in-
compatible with lengthened continuance in power.
Sir James was too much a statesman and too little
a politician to enjoy the success in matters of
legislation, which his erst rival, Sir Henry
Parkes, achieved.
* * *
In his latter days Sir James Martin was a
nominal adherent of the Anglican faith, but his
mental view was too extensive to be limited by
the lines of any simple creed, and his penetration
too great for the sophistries of dogmatic religion.
* * #
A journalist, lawyer, statesman, and judge, Sir
James Martin’s reputation will endure through
long ages of Australian history. Few men have
ever attained so exalted a position in the face of
such difficulties ; few have crowded more labour
into the limits of 66 years ; and fewer still have
ever mixed less of error with so much that is ad-
mirable. His temperament was suited to the
days in which he lived ; his acuteness, vigour
and determination were of a character suited to
all time.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Frawncis Habigle and Guido Fau^<
A “political” item from the Sydney D,T. of last
Friday:—
" A concert is to be held in the Protestant Hall thW
evening under the auspices of the Loyal Orange Institution
of N.S.W. to celebrate the anniversary of the discovery of
the Guy Fawkes plot. Mr F, Abigail M.P., will occupy


the chair, and addresses will be delivered by the Rev. Dr.
Gilchrist (president) and the Rev. J. Barnibb."
What, in tho name of the Escaped Nun, has Aus-
tralia to do with the Gunpowder Plot, and what
do this Habigle man and his two yapping parsons
hope to gain by the cowardly, contemptible,
wormy meanness of hitting a man who has been
down for 280 years ? According to Habigle’s
own creed, poor “Fawkes” has put in nearly
throe centuries in perdition already, and is being
prodded with red-hot spikes at the very moment
when the little parliamentary ferret is indulging
in indecent glee at his misery ; yet Frawncis does
not seem to comprehend the skunkishness implied
in the advertisement which announces that he is
about to rejoice publicly that another man has
been damned. Even a leprous Chinaman’s mon-
grel will not bite at the remains of a man who
has been dead 300 years, still less will he coun-
tenance the insertion of an advertisement in the
papers calling t ogether all the other pups of the
neighbourhood to join iri such a hideous feast:
hut perhaps that is because he is tho mangy satel-
lite of a yellow idolater, and not an Grange member
of Parliament. Even the most bigoted of Papists does
not hurst out annually to celebrate the day when
his ancestors burned Granmer, yet Cranmer
was a turncoat, a pandar to the vilest of English
kings, a murderer, insomuch as he burned Papists
for their faith when he became himself a pious
time-server and a coward, which Fawkes doesn’t
seem to have been. And, lastly, the whole gun-
powder plot, even if it happened but yesterday,
had no more to do with Australia or Australians
than had Judas Iscariot, and we have no time
to waste in holding sprees over foreign atrocities.
According to Parkes’ pronouncement last week,
the colonies are to be governed by colonists and
for colonists, and this dictum hardly agrees with
the policy of holding high carnival over dead-and-
gone brutalities perpetrated three centuries ago
and 16,000 miles’away. But if Habigle must take
the chair over this ancient outrage, and his two
parsons must join him in provoking dissensions
among alleged Christians, and gloating over the
failure of a plot the actors in which were urged
by the threat of atrocious persecution, at least let
them spell the name of their victim correctly, and
not add an outrage in orthography to their other
sins. Surely two reverends and a political boot-
maker can muster enough lore among them for
that.
4
A New Buttress to the House of
G-uelph.
The world does move. Vanity Fair, that kid-
glove and lavender-water organ of English
Toryism, has just discovered that the Royal
family of England are foreigner's ; that most of
their ancestors were Germans, and that they are
even now more familiar with the German than
English language ; and that in consequence of
these things Queen Victoria and her descendants
have little or no power in the State, and only
secure a strictly limited amount of respect. This
Tory writer proceeds to show that the most recent
ancestor of British blood whom the Royal family
can claim is Sophia, Electress of Hanover, grand-
daughter of James 1., whose grandmother was
daughter of Henry VII. For the last 300 years,
then, Royalty has been free from the infusion of
aught but German blood, and—
“ Since the y came over to England to assume the Throne,
every one of their alliances (with the sole exception of that
issueless one with Lord Lome) has been made with a
toreigner, and usually with a German."
For all these evils Vanity Fair has a
potent remedy. Albert Victor, that coffin-
headed young nincompoop whose father is the
Prince of Wales, must, according to this Tory
oracle, marry “ an honorable English lady of honor-
able lineage.” To this proposal there is the prclimi-
niinary objection that an honorable lady might pos-
sibly ref me to marry a typical member of the Royal
Family. Besides the brutal story of Mrs. Fitz-
herbert’s shame, consequent upon her marriage
with George IV., there are more recent records
which show that future Defenders of the Faith
have an unfortunate tendency towards tho Divorce
Court, very distressing to honourable ladies who
are unfortunate enough to be married to them.
R Albert Victor could claim reputable ances-
tors, his own inanity and boorishness would be
enough to disgust honourable English ladies, but
as to his own personal deficiencies are added the
social crimes of his ancestors, he can scarcely
be regarded as eligible save by those
adies who desire only an establishment,
put the expedient is not so absurd as the object it
is intended to effect. Such a marriage, Vanity
i air asserts, would “ restore to the Royal family
tuller confidence and a greater authority in the
realm :
mm fnd would enable the friends of the Crown to work, the
the V ° w hh the more confidence of success, towards
SoveS- .desirable consummation of restoring to the
kingly'office due authority wlli °h properly belongs to the
is Toryism with a vengeance. By “ the duo
offi ,I’ity which properly belongs to the kingly
.|‘ Uce „ is Probably meant the “royal preroga-
ss abolished by the Reform Act, the Habeas
ern P ?u Acfc ’ Petition °f Rights, and the ceaseless
*7“ of Popular authority. The resurrection of
c i Prerogatives ”is a work not of Conserva-
®, “ut of Retrogression. That the nation
n . ul “ willingly part with the liberties it has ac-
bifhp 18 im P° ssible ; that it should do so at the
n I .p C : lng of a Prince who has not ability enough to
hnn'- ei u f display of his own stupidity and
orishness is utterly inconceivable.
CORRESPONDENCE
yo Ur lctor " : Your pen-name is well-chosen. By
gra) f PoBt ' ry y °u make yourself victor over all the rules of
cency apedin Si metre, and the combined dictates of de-
ooui, . g °° 4taste > common sense... .“Arthur G.”: You
Case n Wr^e to our standard even if you stood on a gin-
t(le Your verse rips up all metre and stands
Bay thT 111 mUSe ° n her haloed head We don’t
news at men are hypocrites and humbugs, but if any
e^hibV Per S6t * tso^to n °tice all the prominent and public
one wVr ° f - hy P° orisy - that paper would have to be a big
Q n an r a daily * ssue ' ’• ■“ Nathaniel Gogywhomp Screed
Parso ** 10atdon- ‘Stockwhip We could not refer to a
in jj- n aa Bugaboo Mormon, even if he were as profuse
Isaacs I^ atril bonial aspirations as King Solomon "M. C
been s' Ir 80 > hut such commonplace philosophy has
“ Q Ue °“ eH Philosophised that it is now decidedly stale
fle,l j * n Matsey ”; A French or German doctor, if quali-
fy! 1S OWn country > may practise in England without
a any examination ; but a qualified English doctor
has not similar privileges in France or Germany, This
English professional freetrade system works well—for the
foreigners... .“ Veritas ” ; You say this is the lirst time you
have written. We wish you had said the last time you in-
tended to write “ Adonais ” ; “Monarchy” unsuitable.
Other verses may be altered and published....“ Senex ” :
Will endeavour to find space for your really excellent lines
“A. H.” (Walcha): Regret is useless, so is your poem of
that name : the other very much stronger. Have written to
you, addressing as above....“ Amen ” Mr. Phil May has it...,
“ North Shore ” ; But we don’t see why they should have
cheered a man who is one of the most notorious and dis-
orderly drunkards in the Assembly...." F. J.” (Melbourne) :
If the committee can get a starter who is able to despatch
his horses without using bad language, so much the better!
if not, they should keep the starter who swears.... “Bargee”:
We have read it. But haven’t you noticed how “indecent
assaults ” have increased since the sensational newspapers -
Sydney D.T. and so on-began to find food for the imagina-
tion of hysterical women?... .“American Citizen ’’: Adver-
tise foryour friend in the Lea deb and Eveninc Hera i.d
“J.8.H.”: Thanks. Send’em along “ W.R ” Too hot
.... “ Racy ”; No, it was Miss Jawbone O’Gorman.. “ Vacuus
Viator”: Much obliged...." J. Bailey”: There were other
elboU y naon Cup r)a >’- For instance, there was
the Y.M.O.A. picnic “ J.D.”: Sketches promising, but too
crude....“ T. Reid" (Newtown); Please call on editor...
“ B.B." : The missionaries have only succeeded in “convert-
mg” Indian natives of the very lowest castes—obsequious
niggers who gain what is called social position by abandon-
ing their own religion. The missionary produces no effect on
the average Brahmin.Camera” : For the sake of the fire
of your lines we will try to repair their faults.. “Horse-
whip”; You say The Bulletin should publicly apologise
for its “ Slaves of the Desk ” article. You are right. The
Bulletin does apologise, regretting that the term, “super-
line gentlemen,” was unreservedly applied to the oluoials at
the Lands Office. The phrase was, we freely admit wholly
without justification....“T. Hawley”;-No. It cannot be
said that Mahomet conquered nine-tenths of the world nor
even that proportion of the then known world “Demo-
crat” (not the sweep man); Exact figures as to relative cost
of governing England and America not obtainable, but there
can be no comparison between the two. In the States, the
President is paid ,£lO,OOO a year; in England, Royalty costs
with perks, over .£500,000, The cost of the American army
and navy is not one-tenth of thv.t paid in England Pay-
ment of members is law in Victoria. Cannot say whether
such works are obtainable; write to any bookseller for cata-
logue. ... “ Sockdolloger ” : Too sultry “J.8.J.”; Hon.
Finch-Hatton denies that it was he who was prosecuted for
drunkenness at Tenterfield-avers that he has never been at
Tenterfield in his life “ Bushman”; Missionary article
interesting but too lengthy. Will try to condense.,.. “J. n.
Ralph”: Yon have all our sympathy, but we cannot take up
the case. The only way to force the Government to action
would be by ventilation of the matter in Parliament
“ C.J.D.” (Parkes): Too stale. Why not send a description
of some of last year’s social events “ F.8.C.”; How can
we explain it before we understand it ourselves ? Your com-
pliments are as an eruption of piety in a wilderness of sin
and slander....“ E.S.W.”; An article on the subject already
in type Yours et Mr. (Tasmania) : Write to the*
Prothonotary of the Supreme Court...." W.A.R.” :We
shall be glad to have from you short independent paragraphs
...." Kiangi”: You should read Collins, Lang, Flanagan’s
histories, Phillip’s voyage, Mudie’s “ Felonry of N.S.W ,”
Commissioner, Bigge’s report, and Therry’s “ Reminiscences’”
These books can only be bought at tremendous prices : you
will have to avail yourself of the Victorian or the N S W
Public Library...." R. W. Burton”: You needn’t worry
about the Imperial Federation fad, which is dying a miserable
death.,..“P.P.J.”: You may be right, but you should
thank the gods that N.S.W. has at last been split into two
sections on a purely political question—Free-trade v Pro-
jection. So long as the fight lasts it will act as an anti-
dote to corruption and sectarianism “Anglican” (Parra-
matta): No, the Australian Anglican bishops have no righ
to the title “Lord,” neither have they any status in the
British House of Peers. They use the term freely, but it is
merely a distinction conferred on themselves by themselves
The same thing is done by young swells from home who live
at the best colonial ho'tels, drink champagne, quarrel with
the billiard-marker, chuck the barmaid under the chin, auc
then go away leaving the bill unpaid....“ George Ranken”:
We cannot see that our statement that lecturers were ob-
tained andsentforth to agitate for compensation for squatters'
improvements, carries any aspersion of the lecturers. We
are aware that you have addressed meetings in your capacity
as a member of the Association, and not as a “bribed or
hired” lecturer “ A Manager ” ; Cannot say where Bert
Willison can be found....“ W.J.”; We don’t care a dump
whether the Euabalong giant is going to retire, and it does
not concern us a fraction that there is a lady with blue eyes
at Mount Hope.
The Priest and the Cardinal.
There is at present a very pretty feud between
Cardinal Moran (who is a “secular” priest) and
the Rector of St. John s College, Sydney a
distinguished member of the Benedictine
Order. The head and front of the Rector’s offend-
ing would appear to be that he wa? elected to his
office before the Cardinal had arrived in Aus-
tralia to recommend to the Fellows a nominee of
his own. It will be remembered that the rector-
ship became vacant by the resignation of Dr.
Gillett upon the death of Archbishop Vaughan.
It of course could not be expected that there
should be no head to the college till the vacancy
in the Archiepiscopal See of Sydney was tilled,
as Rome seems always slow and deliberate in
making high appointments. The Fellows, there-
fore, proceeded to elect a new Rector, and so
fearful were they of offending that he was only
elected for a year—a step which it is now
thought w r as not strictly legal. The rector
chosen was Dr. Barry, who had the express
approval of Dr. Sheridan, the then Administrator
of the Diocese. At the end of the year it was
known that many of the Fellows wished to re-
elect Dr. Barry, who had given complete satisfac-
tion. To check-mate them, the Cardinal with-
drew his “faculties ” (this, we think, is the term)
from Dr. Barry—in fact, would not allow him to
officiate as a priest in his diocese—prohibited him
from saying Mass even in his own college. This
is a punishment inflicted occasionally on priests
who have given grave public scandal by their dis-
orderly life, but why it has been brought to bear
upon Dr, Barry, a cultured and honourable gentle-
man, who is held in the highest esteem even by
his Protestant clerical brethren, has not been
stated and perhaps may never be known. Dr.
Barry appealed to Rome, with what result we
have not heard ; though we doubt not that it
would be very hard for him to obtain justice even
in the “Eternal City” against the whole influ-
ence of an Archbishop who had just been created
a Cardinal. It is very easy to talk about the
anxiety of the Pope to deal out impartialjustice, but
how is the case to be accurately estimated, when
represented on one side by a Cardinal in person
on the other by the written statement of a more
priest? We are informed that many of the lay -
Fellows, at least, are determined to stand by Dr.
Barry, for they are well acquainted with
his many virtues, and to resist tyranny, when
exercised even by an authority which,’ when
actuated by justice and moderation, they look up
to with the utmost veneration. Severe pressure
will probably be brought to bear on both Dr.
Barry, who from his position is of course liable to
it, and on the most pliant of the fellows, with the
result that a man of unblemished character may
be sacrificed to save any seeming humiliation to a
“ prince of the church.” The cardinal appears to be
“making the most” of his newly-acquired authority,
regardless of the fact that it is extremely probable
that lie only got the red hat by, in sporting phrase.
Lie • merest of flukes.” The I’ope, it is generally
believed, wanted to give him the archbishopric of
llublin, and with that view ordered him to Rome.
Rut before Dr. Moran reached Romo, the authori-
ties of the Vatican found that the Irish National-
ists wouldn t take him at any price. The Pope’s
people were therefore compelled to send him back
to Sydney ; but as they could not very well bring
a man from the .other end of the world without
assigning a reason for it, they made the best of a
bad job by making Dr. Moran into a full-fledged
cardinal. And a very pretty cardinal he seems
to be.
MARCUSCLARKIANA.
After all, Marcus Clarke’s family are no
to get the £lOOO grant proposed and approve!
. " weeks back. The motion has been negative!
m committee of the Victorian Logislati
Assembly by a majority of three, and it is u
likely that anything more will bo heard
the matter. The Assembly probably cn
si acred that. Marcus Clarke’s memory was sm
ciently honoured when they decided that 1
family ought to have the £lOOO. They recognise!
his services to the country in a sentimental sens
and let it rest at that. Looking over the divisio
list, it seems that the pietists of the House d
played their proverbial Christian charity
voting against the grant. There is nothing ver
surprising about that. Such men have a cordi
hatred for any class of talent which soars abo
the talent for money-grubbing, and a satirist
shams is their especial aversion. But it seem
like a cruel Jest when we find that the only mem
ber of the Ministry who voted “No” was Dunca
Lillies', Premier. A sense of shame should ha\
compelled him to take the- same side as his co
leagues. For years this gentleman of medioc
parts has waxed fat upon the public money. I
has done nothing, said nothing, that will be r
membered to his honour by posterity. All th
the outside world knows of Duncan Gillies is tha
he is a successful place-hunter, who is alleged
have once given a penny to a hotel-servant, an
for these services the State has rewarded him s
well that he grudges a paltry £lOOO to the fami
of a ten-times brighter man, who was a publ
ser \ ant in the true acceptation of the word,
would bo unkind to refer to any more of the o
ponents of this grant. There are members
Parliament who strongly disapprove of Marci
Clarke s great work—for painful family reasons.
* * *
Clarke’s mother, it is tolerably certain, was
Jewess. But still he didn’t like the Chosen People
I here was an uproar in Melbourne one year whei
describing the lawn-scene at the Cup, he wrote i
the Argus “In the corner were to be seen th
Women of Solyma, resplendent with jewels and
the gaudiness of their attire. They were strikin
figures, being greasy as to their hair, pulpy as t
their lips, and heavy as to their hbses—and lo
the air was darkened by the shadows of the nose
of the daughters of Judah.”
* * *
Which reminds us that Clarke, in writing abou
Melbourne money-lenders in The Bulletin, re
marked on the frequency with which Hebrew
were made J’sP. in Victoria, and the regularit;
w ith which they attended at the Melbourne Polic
Court to take part in deciding cases wherein “ th
Brethren” were concerned Let a poor devi
of a Civil servant dispute a pawnbroker’s accoun
for a pledged waistcoat, and the Bench will look
like Pelican Island in the breeding season, b;
reason of the multitude of beaks hanging over the
railings.”
* * *
At Clarke’s marriage, the late Mr. B. F. Kane
then Secretary of the Victorian Education Depart-
ment, acted as best man. It was characteristic
of the gifted author that he, after the nuptia
knot was tied, left his bride in the charge of her
parents while he went in search of lodgings for
his “ better half.”
* * *
Oliver Wendell Holmes, on receiving, in 1872,
Clarke’s story, “ Pretty Dick,” wrote :—I felt as
much like crying over the fate of * Pretty Dick
as I did when I was a child and read ‘ Babes in
the W ood. I did cry then. I will not say whether
I cried over 4 Pretty Dick ’ or not.”
* * *
“Borrowing,’ wrote Clarke, “may be reduced
to a science, or elevated to an art. Borrowing an
umbrella is a science ; borrowing half-a-crown is
an art. The man who begins with an umbrella
may get to half-a-crown or even five shillings.”
* * *
Distrust the men who make bargains. They
are a disgrace to humanity. No one ever saw a
dog swap a bone with another dog.
* * *
I got a gentleman from Palestine once to back
a bill for me, and when he got the cash he said it
was disgraceful to see a young man arhuinin’ his
familesh, s’elp him—and kept the money. When I
expostulated, he said he would give me a good
cigar. An agreeable fellow, but loose in his
morals. *
* * *
Men who tell you that you ought to go into
Parliament are usually pretty safe. You can bor-
row from them easily.
* *
Life assurance offices are pit falls ; they make
a man run up five flights of stairs, and then punch
him in the stomach before they will lend him a
five-pound note. It’s not worth the trouble ; be-
sides, they are unlucky.
* * «
Cordials, as a general rule, are worse than
liquor; there’s more brandy in them. A tee-
totaller who has been drinking Balm of Gilead is
a terrible sight, more especially when he sits in
the gutter and holds the lamp-posts steady.
* * *
Business Men are the cream of the social
bowl in their own estimation. The stone-pillars
which, according to the Arabic legend, hold the
earth up. There never was, or can be, anything
to equal them. You may be the best fellow in the
world, the sole support of an aged mother or the
protector of a whole boarding-schoolful of orphan
sisters. You may work like a horse and give all
your goods to feed the poor, but if you are not a
business man you are as sounding brass or a tinkling
cymbal. To be a business man is a special gift—a
sort of inherent virtue, like a cast in the eye. If
you are a business man you will succeed in busi-
ness—that is to say, you will be a good husband,
a fond father, a conscientious Christian, always
vote with the Government, and when you die you
will go straight to Heaven. If you are a business
man people will shout for you and your friends
will give you prayer books with gilt-edges.
* *
Advice as to promoting bazaars “Ladies
prefer the clergy—their presence casts a
halo of propriety around the most flagrant
flirtation. If no clergyman can be obtained—
an accident, however, which is very remote, as
they always nil up their spare time with works of
Christian benevolence-try a military man. Sol-
diers are parsons in the rough.”
* * *
i'i ieudship is like mining; sometimes you drop
imo a good thing, but the majority of places arc
a utters, When you get a friend worth working
stick to him like grim death. Friendship is delu-
siye, like a threepenny drink. Bouncer was a
, OvT-mnrp’ 0 vT- mn rp’ f, nd when 1 was going to be mar-
iied to Miss Tallow, with a fortune of £50,000
Bouncer said; “Introduce me, old fellow, as
your fnend ! ’ I did, and in six weeks he mar-
ned the lady. My only consolation was that her
lather became insolvent before the end of the year.
Ihe gods are just.
*- * *
Don’t lend a friend your horse, or your ox, or
your ass, or anything else that is yours. I lent
poor Dick Suable a trotting pony I had, and he
SiT notes ; w hen I charged him
with the theft he burst into tears and said : 44 It
was all your fault. What did you lend it for i
Vo you expect that a man who has lived five
years in Xcw South Wales is an icicle ? ”
* ‘ * *
It is astonishing how many friends a man will
have when he is rich. I saw a big dog with a
sheep-paunch dining in a gutter to-day, and four
httle dogs seated round with their noses in the air.
When he moved from the street they followed him
respectfully sniffing.
* * *
1 ncles arc of two kinds—good and bad. 1
never heard of a medium uncle. They know no
medium between the benevolent half-sovereign of
boyhoods happy hours and the amputative
shilling of scapegrace notoriety. Sometimes they
are absolute villains, and have no sympathy with
babes, whether in the woods, in bulk, or in bottle.
* * *
Aunts are good. 1 like gold-spectacled maiden
ones best, the dear old ladies who have whi'-c
hair, and ask you, “ Which would you rather do,
smg a hymn or have an orange,” and when
you say “ sing a hymn, aunt,” give you two
oranges.
* * *
Mothcrs-in-law are ladies who have daughters.
A mother-m-law may be considered as the beard
on the matrimonial oyster.
* * *
Australians have varied and curious notiohs
concerning bows. One gentleman dislocate! his
cervical vertebral, ard grin?. Another winks his
eye, and protrudes his chin with an air that inti-
mates, “ Ah, I see you ! Back again! 1 know
all about it. How did you like the oakum-pick-
ing ? -
* * *
the Australasian will be a square-headed,
masterful man with full temples, plenty of beard,
a keen eye, a stern and yet sensual mouth. His
teeth will be bad, and his lungs good. He will
suffer from liver-disease and become prema-
turely bald; average duration of life in the un-
married, fifty-nine : in the married, sixty-five and
a decimal. In another hundred years the average
Australasian will be a tall, coarse, strong-jawed
pushing, talented man, excelling in swimming and
horsemanship. His religion will bo a form of
Presbyterianism, his national policy a Democracy
tempered by the rate of exchange. His wife will
be a thin, narrow woman, very fond of dress and
idleness, oaring little for her children, but without
sufficient brain-power to sin with zest. In five
hundred years unless recruited from foreign
nations the breed will be wholly extinct ; but ir
that five hundred years it will have changed the
face of nature and swallowed up all our contem-
porary civilisation.
* * ♦
The mission of the modern Hebrew is to in-
vade society and conquer it as the English did
India, this is to be done in n thousand ways—by
lending money, by giving dinners, by marrying a
fashionable wife, by making speeches, by assum-
ing Christianity, by becoming a friend of a cardinal,
by conspiring against the Holy Sec. There are a
thousand ways laid down in the Beaconsfleldian
sccreta monita. If the sacred name of Cohen
prove inconvenient, change it for Colquhoun. If
the restrictions of Mosaic dietics are disagreeable
to your friends, breed choice Berkshires and be-
come partner in a Frankfort sausage factory.
The Triumph of Civilisation.
On the outskirts of a great city,
A street of fashionable mansions well withdrawn
from all the noise and bustle ;
And in the street —the only figure there—in the
middle of _ the road, in the bitter wind-
Eed-nosed, thin-shawled, with ancles bare and old
boots—
A woman bent and haggard, croaking a dismal
song.
And the great windows stare upon her wretched*
ness, and stare across the road upon each
other,
With big full eyes ;
■But not a door is opened, not a face is seen.
Nor form of life down all the dreary street,
To certify the existence of humanity—
Other than hers. • • • ■
Judge Cooper, of Queensland, thinks that
speculators, miners, sharebrokers, and such,
should not be regarded as fit persons tp testify in
a court of law, and should transact their business
in a strait-waistcoat. He said recently that
“ Lunatics who deal in shares would believe anything—
speculating m shares is nothing but gambling, and all gamb-
lers are more or less lunatics.”
His Honour, we believe, is a soured and embittered
stock exchange bull, and the old memories cling to
him. He never made a pile out of 14 gone bungs ”
or any other stock ; he never bit a double on a
Cup, or scooped the pool at Nap, or held a full
hand at poker; he never even fixed his affections
on a young gazelle but that gazelle went back on
him, and he now takes it out in cursing the whole
speculative brotherhood.
Some strange tales are told conceruirm the
campaign of the zealous O’Gorman Bridget
we mean Edith of that ilk. One Ananias
asseverates that a J.P. who loved the yellow
sash borrowed a “liver” from a Romanist
of the same town to enable him to go a journey
for the purpose of bringing Edith and discord into
that village. And yet another rumour asserts
nvrwn ß 'P' P 1 ’ 16^ 8 love to hear of the advent of
tor revenues increase wondrously
when her sweet voice calls for fire and brimstone
against the ‘ iniquitous system which her—lasted
her young life. If the Anglicans now want to
get level on the exposure business, they should
start an “escaped churchwarden” on the R.O.
[ warpath.


BILIOUS SUFFERERS READ.
Waterloo, No. 25 Botany Road (Sydney), July
31, 1886.—1 was taken Tory ill with biliousness
and enlargement of the liver. The doctor, to-
gether with other remedies, did me no good. I
was advised to try Warner’s safe cure, and War-
ners safe pills. The first dose gave relief, and
now, I thank God, 1 can say I am entirely cured,
and shall always recommend Warner’s safe cure
to like sufferers. —SAMUEL PEARSON
INDIGESTION,
Waterloo, No. 25Botany Road (Sydney), July
31, 1880. —For over twenty years I have suffered
from indigestion. During that time I havo tried
many different medicines, but never found any-
thing to compare with Warner s safe pills. I can
highly recommend them, for I think they are the
best in the world. —MRS. SAMUEL PEARSON.
AN INTERNAL TARAWERA.
Carlton, 146 Elgin St., Yict., Nov. 11, 1885.
I have been under physician’s care off and on for
the past seven years, but have gradually grown
worse. My symptoms were violent pains across
the small of my back, a crushing weight in the pit
of stomach, sick headache ; also what seemed to
be an internal gathering, which would increase in
size for three months, then break, and I would
begin to spit blood. I took twenty bottles of
Warner’s safe cure, with the safe pills, and can
now testify to the curative merits of Warner’s
safe cure.—SAMUEL PHILPOT.
BEST IN THE WORLD.
St. Kilda, Viet, 178 High St, Nov. 28, 1885.
My experience is that Warner’s safe cure is the
best medicine for the kidney and liver diseases in
the world. —Mrs. E. PRESTON.
The Referee
We cannot see much work in Australia for
Jack Dempsey, the famous unbeaten American
middle-weight champion, who has won 37 battles
against the best men in the world. Dempsey,
who weighs lOst. 101 b., is expected here shortly
and will he ready to give 181 b. to anyone who
likes to meet him.
* * *
The N.S.W. ’Cycling Union have decided
by 32 votes to 11 that the “Maker’s Amateur,”
the Agent, and the whole “bilin”’ of doubtfuls
shall continue to rank as bona fide amateurs.
The fact of a man making a living out of the re-
pair of boats would damn him in amateur rowing
circles, but the wheelmen cannot see matters in
the same light. However, if the bicyclists
are content to promote races with the object of
giving the maker’s amateur prizes and a chance
of advertising his machine, we don’t see why
there should be any lamentations about it.
* * *
“I never made a wager above half-a-
crown on a bicycle race,” said one of the few
bona fide amateurs at the recent shivoo of the
Union. “ That’s not true,” replied a quasi-pro-
fessional, “ for you mad® and won a wager of a
pound with me on one occasion.” “ Well, I
scarcely counted that," said the amateur, "for
you forgot to pay me.”
* * *
Anyone on the look-out for a real “ old-
man spree ” cannot do better than kick up a dis-
turbance at one of Frank Smith’s assemblies at
Botany, the historic spot where “ no two gentle-
men are now allowed to dance together.” There
were six M.C.s at the Prince of Wales’ Birthday
dance, those eminent, pugilists, “Professor”
Jackson (the champion) and Mr. Mick Dooley,
heading the list. As well might a man wrestle
through the cogs of a corn-sheller, as
through the grip of these two personages, who,
between them, tot up the respectable score of
some 26st. in weight and 12ft. 6in. in height.
* * *
That little wonder Murphy was at it a gain
at Foley’s rooms, on Saturday night. Murphy is
a tailor, of which tradesmen, it is said, it takes
nine to make a man. Despite the proverb, and
although only weighing some Bst. 41b., he proved
a better man than the ’Frisco 12-stoner, M’Caull,
who had undertaken to knock our little 'un out in
four rounds. Murphy reversed matters by per-
sauding the Murkan that enough was as good as a
feast before two rounds had been fought. The
Usual stock sets-to were gone through and the
wind up was between Burgess and Nelson, who
Were billed to Aght “ to a Anish.” The men were
very evenly matched, and although they in turn
looked pretty well knocked out, they punched on
gamely till the thirteenth round when, by mutual
consent a “ draw ” was proclaimed. Nelson
“ palmed ” his man repeatedly, for which unfair-
ness ought to have been cautioned by the referee,
and upon a repetition of the offence the Aght
should have been awarded to Burgess.
* * *
“ Pendragon’s ” second letter dated Syd-
ney, deals at considerable length with Australian
horse-racing, dwelling especially on the facts that
Antipodean races are always run from the word
“go,” and are, therefore, usually done in faster
time than in England ; and that, contrary to Eng-
lish custom, horses are never run in plates. Re-
ferring again to steeplechasing at Randwick, he
says
“Just as the riders make the best of their way home in
the fi it races, so is the same system pursued in the steeple-
chases. The way in which men and horses gallop at their
fences—and such fences '—makes an Englishman hold his
breath in apprehension until he sees them get safely over.
.... The practice of steadying a horse at a jump of any
sort is entirely unknown in this the birth and abiding place
of the real rough-rider. ... I never fully realised what
was meant by a horse taking a fence four feet and a half
in his stride until I reached the antipodes.”
But with all this he is not charmed with Austra-
lian steeplechasing : a sight of the Casualty-room
with all its ghastly-suggestive appliances seems to
have made him consider that sport may be carried
too far even when witnessed by “ the beautifully-
dressed ladies and elegant gentlemen who crowd
the stands and lawn at Flemington,” and if he
had been on that course last Saturday when those
exquisite and admirable personages cheered with
delight when Game, ridden by the gallant Corri-
gan, fell with his 13st. 51bs. burden in the bigrace,
his impressions as to the comparative brutality of
the amusement would have received heaps of con-
Armation.
* . * 4
It is stated in the Yankee press that
Malone, of Sydney, wants to run a series of races
with Myers and George. Malone beat Myers in
the 100 yards at the English champion meeting in
1881.
* * *
Lord Carington’s English jockey, Whiting,
Seems to have rather discounted the chances of
his mount, Esperance, and those of M. Cooper’s
colt, Huntingtower, in a race of the Arst day of
the V.R.C. meeting. His Excellency should have
put Lord Bertie up—that’s the man who can ride.
* * *
The Referee writing of a recent boat-
race, remarks that “Beach’s old-fashioned mug
bore the do-or-die seriousness appropriate to great
occasions.”
* * *
We are sorry to read that that most popu-
lar of cricketers, Mr. “ Ted” Evans, “ is clearly
done for as a willow-wielder through some affec-
tion of the knees.” Evans complains bitterly of
the treatment extended to him during the English
tour,
* * *
A Melbourne grocer accepted £5O to £2
lOs. about William Tell for the CaulAeld Cup.
By the Arst post on the Monday after the race
bookie received an invoice worded thus: —“To
groceries supplied, £2 Bs. 9d. Herewith please
And the sum of 15d. in stamps being balance in
your favour re William Tell wager;” On counting
the stamps, the metallician discovered that his
client was “ light weight ” to the amount of two-
pence, and it remained for his better half to
balance accounts by directing his attention to the
fact that the missing stamp was placed outside
the envelope.
* # *
Says the London Entr' Acte: —“ If Beach
could be ‘ got at’ and bought, I daresay there
would be a good chance of the two men (B. and
Hanlan) meeting once more on the Parramatta,
but I am happy to believe that this operation is
not possible.”
* * *
A “ firm ” who took 20 chances in Tatter-
sail’s £lO,OOO sweep on Melbourne Cup are not
quite in accord with the promoter in the matter
of drawing the numbers and the horses. On look
ing at the result-slip it will be noticed that only 14
numbers are drawn in each 1000. There were 140
odd entries for the Cup, and the way the sweep
was drawn must have been: Numbers from one
to 1000 placedji the barrel, and when 14 numbers
had been driwn, fresh marbles, 1001 to 2001, 14
more drawn, and so on to the end of the tenth
thousand. The “ Arm’s ” numbers were all in the
second thousand, so that they only had 14 dips in
the lucky bag for their 20 “ quid.”
* * *
After a long newspaper discussion English
turf experts have decided that, if the colour of a
horse counts for anything, the chestnuts are the
best for “ foot,” but, for staying powers, nothing
beats a brown, or a dark bay with black points.
Apropos to this we may mention that the Mel-
bourne Derby was never won by a chestnut horse
until Trident pulled it off, and with the exception
of Glencoe, no chestnut horse has ever yet secured
the Melbourne Cup. But we hardly think there
is much in this. We have seen good horses of all
colours—except green. We never knew a green
horse yet that was At for anything but Arewood.
* * *
This is a specimen of sporting writing
from the Age : “ The result of the running in the
Oaks was somewhat remarkable, as every starter
in the race gained a situation, which would have
been somewhat hard on the books, had the race
been of sufficient importance to have produced
place betting." Apart from the maniacal notion
of “ place betting ” for a four-horse race, the Age
genius is mistaken in supposing that, under any
circumstances, bookmakers would suffer by two
“THE LEVITE PASSED HIM BY.”
“The Levite beat Hogmanay by a long nose.” —Melbourne Sporting Paper.
horses running a tie for third shop. Place bets
would be divided, as in the case of an ordinary
dead heat.
* * *
A £5 investment on each of Gorry’s mounts
at last week’s Elsternwick meeting brought a
proAt of £7O to £lOO, according to the industry of
the backer. The lad had three mounts —all of
wins, at good prices.
«■ * *
Lord Carington’s two-year-olds cut a ridi-
culous Agure at Flemington owing to lack of con-
dition. Nevertheless they are shapely cattle, and
with good luck may take their own part in the big
events of next year.
* * *
The “books.” had an uncommonly bad
Oaks day at the V.R.C. meeting. All seven win-
ners were well backed, and four of them —Hor-
tense, Trenton, Epicurean, and The Nun —were
strong public favourites. By the way, it was
noticeable throughout the meeting that certain
professionals made a practice of “ saving ” horses
against which they might have laid plenty of
money Their fancies didn’t happen to come off,
and sarve ’em right. When a bookie becomes an
indirect backer he deserves to come to the same
grief as his misguided clients.
. * * *
Mr. George Watson, the Y.R.C, starter,
whose praises are sounded with such sickening
monotony by the Melbourne papers, has been re-
sponsible for a lot of recent seemingly erratic
form. In the Nursery Handicap at CaulAeld,
Hortense, getting many lengths the worst of a
wretchedly bad start, was beaten a short head by
Lady Lovell. That defeat caused the South Aus-
tralian Ally to be comparatively discarded for the
Maribyrnong Plate, in which she proved that the
CaulAeld race was a real “ moral” for her had the
Aeld been despatched on anything like even terms.
For the seven-furlong Selling Race on Derby Day
the start was so execrably bad that three or four
horses never had a 1000 to 1 chance of winning.
In these short scrambles the send-off is of para-
mount importance, yet the too-beslavered Mr.
Watson frequently gives the signal at a particu-
larly unhappy moment. After any amount of
ordering, and Aning, and Annicking, the climax is
a straggling start. It is particularly noticeable
that for important long-distance events, where
there is least objection for a scrupulous toeing of
the line, the V.R.C. autocrat of the Aag takes a
wearisome delight in arranging and re-arranging
Ms Aeld. Then the Melbourne papers gush about
their “ Prince of Starters,” and Mr. Watson is
happy. His serious mistakes in minor events pass
unnoticed.
* « *
“ Say, old man, we’re one short : won’t
your brother play for us ? “My brother ? Why
he’s blind and deaf 1” “ Oh, well ; p’raps he
wouldn’t mind umpiring for us, then ? ” And he
didn’t turn out much worse than the man at the
other end after all.
* * *
The Referee has lifted up its potent voice
against the wearying system of four-ball overs.
Says the Ref. ; “When you come to look at it,
does it not seem ridiculous that about one-half
the working time allotted for play should be frit-
tered away in marchonging and allonging from
post to post. The waits are as long as the scenes.”
It has long been evident to all but cricket cranks
that the four-ball over was instituted purely in
the interests of “ gate,” and it is also evident that
the policy is beginning to defeat its own object.
For several seasons past the public have chafed
more and more at the fooling which goes on in
Arst-class matches. The adjournments for re
freshments, the meanderings of batsmen round the
wickets when they ought to he taking their strike,
and, above all, the continual shifting of the Aeld,
are accountable for the lack of interest taken in
cricket nowadays. The outside public is the goose
that lays the golden eggs. Feed it well with
quantities of quick, lively play and it will continue
to lay. Messrs. Shaw and Shrewsbury might take
the hint. We can’t expect a return to the old six-
ball overs right away, but we can, at any rate,
pray that such sweetness as modern cricket con-
tains be not too long drawn out.
* * -5f
Tom Hales, with his win of throe out of
Ave races on the Aat, was the human hero of the
concluding day of the Y.R.C. meeting. Of the
equines, Volcano at 3 to 1 on for the Mares’ Pro-
duce Stakes put his backers at their ease from the
start, as he went away with the lead, and cantered
home an easy winner from Lord William. Casuist
won the Flemington Stakes from Oceana ; and the
12 to 1 chance Bravo rather upset the punters by
defeating Britisher for the V.R.C. Handicap.
Game, with the crusher of 13tL 51b., was made
warm goods for the Steeplechase, but the favourite
came to grief, and the winner turned up in Lady
Ashton. Trenton started favourite for the Can-
terbury Cup, but he had to play second Addle to
Trident, who won after a great race in the mar-
vellous time of smin. 25|sec. Lord Wilton had
the call for the Free Handicap, but once in the
straight Hales took Hogmanay to the front, and
defeated the favourite rather easily by a length.
* * *
The stand made by the Victorian cricketers
against the English Eleven comes as a pleasant
surprise to those who feared that no local eleven
would be able to stand against Lohmann and his
peers. “Tommy” Horan’s 117 not out shows
that the veteran is pretty well able to teach the
boys a thing or two yet; and Houston and
M‘Shane, who each topped the three-score, de-
serve heaps of kudos for that performance.
* ♦
Recent developments make it pretty evi-
dent that the three-year-old form of this
season is but moderate, and that Trident,
however good he may be, is merely the
champion of a bad lot. In the Melbourne Stakes
Lord William, Cross Are and Co. showed them-
selves quite unable to cope with Isonomy, and that
old stager Boolka, at weight for age. Chesham,
who ran so forward in the Derby, was ignomin-
iqusly beaten for speed by a lot of common handi-
cap horses in the Hailway Stakes. In the Mel-
bourne Cup no three year old save Trident ever
Aattered his supporters. Even the latter received
261b5., and a 7lbs. beating from Trenton, while
Sheet Anchor, carrying the crusher of 9st. 91bs.,
showed his heels to the rest of the youngsters.
Thus over all distances it is plain that the veterans
can more than hold their own, A lot has been
written about Trident being a better horse than
Martini-Henry at the same age. We are inclined
to doubt it. When Martini won the Melbourne
Cup he might have been conAdently backed to
beat any horse in Australia, at 2 libs , over any
distance from six furlongs to two miles. What a
good three year old can do has been illustrated by
Ormonde, the present English champion. Or-
monde’s owner would match him against any horse
breathing at a stone. Again, such juveniles as
Foxhall and St. Gatien have won the biggest of
the Newmarket handicaps, carrying nearly top
weights. All things considered, it is surprising
that Arsenal was so little backed by Victorians
for the big event. Mr. Gannon made no secret of
the fact that the son of Powder had done a phe-
nomenal gallop over the Cup course between 3
and I o’clock on Sunday morning, when the touts
were slumbering in their little beds. The story
was fairly current among racing men on the Tues-
day morning, but somehow the Cabbage gardeners
got it into their heads that Arsenal was a common
horse, because Mr. Pearson had parted with him.
Perhaps there was another cause for prejudice.
The Herald tipster plumped for Arsenal. And—
queer coincidence—so, by the way, did the Even-
ing News prophet.
* * *
Fred. Archer, the famous jockey, has shot
himself dead with a revolver, while suffering from
acute pneumonia. His personal estate, it is said
is worth a quarter of a million.
Among 60 families evicted at Carraroe,,
Galway, not one curse, tear, or prayer for mercy
was given forth.
Sydney E. News is at last paying some
regard to “ the eternal Atness ” of things; The-
day after Parkes’ St. Leonards speech it had a re-
cipe for “ warming up cold meat.”
“ Satan has many ingenious ways of neu-
tralising the good work of the churches,” says the
Christian World. Yes, indeed, but he beat his
best record when he set up the religious news-
paper.
Two impoited donkeys have of late been
frequently advertised in the S.M. Herald for sale
but no one seems to hanker after them. Now we
know why “Wales” declines to visit Australia.
He fancies the market is glutted.
Mr. Lewellyn Jones, the well-known
amateur tenor, has taken the initial steps neces-
sary to the formation of a Philharmonic Society
for the delectation of the cultured ones at Waver-
ley and Woollahra, Present indications prophetic
of success.
From theS.M. Herald : — “Wanted, with-
out delay, respectable unmarried Woman, to wet-
nurse baby, milk must be only few weeks old. Z., Mil-
ler’s Point Post-oAice.” O, Mr. Fairfax ! Here's a
text far Pastor Jefferis from his favourite organ of
“ public opinion.”
Lord Carington may be a very nice young
man in his own little way. but that does not ex*
cuse the snobbery of the N.S.W. railway authori-
ties in delaying all passenger traAic so that the -
vice-regal special may come through. \V hy on
earth cannot he travel in one of the ordinary
trains ? We are certain that he is not such a snob
as to wish to do otherwise.
The Rev. Mr. Dowie spoke at Melbourne
on Sunday last both in sorrow and in anger on the
subject of the Cup. He called it “ The Cup of
Devils.” He probably meant blue devils. He
also said that Ihe four Governors had come to
Melbourne “ when all the rascality of the colonies
was gathered together.” This does seem a little
hard upon the Governors, but Mr. Dowie is no
man to mince his words when the cause of
terewtk is at stake.
Mr. Henry Copeland, the dyspeptic N. S. W.
Minister for Lands, is in one sense a public bene-
factor. Aware that the public during the recess
will miss the displays of idiocy which in session
are afforded by the Macquarie-street crowd, he
has made an exhibition of the same character on
his own account by appointing two officers of the
Lands Department to enquire into the working of
that chaotic institution and report, “without
showing favouritism or antipathies,” on the con-
duct of the entire staff! The scheme is too shallow
for anything but derision. If Mr. Cepeland wished
to announce himself an incapable administrator
by thus proving his own ignorance of the De-
partment over which he nominally presides, he
could not have chosen a more effective method
than this : nor could ho by any other means have
shown more clearly that it is his desire to continue
in his ignorance. Messrs. Fitzgerald and Houston
may be admirably Atted for their staff duties, but
as a board of enquiry they must under any cir
cumstance be an expensive and mischievous
delusion.
Mr. “ Joe ” Abbott, who has at last openly
declared for Protection (he says that “after care-
fully studying the question he has come to the con
elusion that a protective tariff is necessary for-
N.S.W., as she is being hemmed in on every side,,
and her people are suffering through excessive im
portations’), is announced to preside at the greaty
Protectionist Demonstration in Sydney on Satur
day. It really was about time for Mr. Abbott
to publicly commit himself to some certain line of
politics. Probably he would have been less coquettish
if it were not for the fact that the Protectionists
must take him when he elects to go over, not be-
cause they particularly love or admire him, but
simply because (Mr. Heydon having apparently
elected to stand aside) there does not seem to be
anyone else Who can possibly lead the party. For
the Jennings crowd to champion the cause openly
would simply be to invite their own destruction.
They have so strongly and foolishly asserted their
devotion toFree-trade, that their possible ability to
lie is insufficient to get them out of the coming Ax.
When the Protectionists have a chance to assert
themselves at the ballot-box they may possibly
appoint Mr. Abbott as their general, but this will
be faute de mieux; he is the only eligible man
and they may have to take him.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
lieatrb Royal—" La Mascotte" nl5
lhambra Music Hall— Minstrelsy
lademy of Musio-Hirry Rickards “On Guard”.'.’ ” ”
odfellows’ Hall, Newtown—Lynch Family ” ”
.Bellringers
The well-worn “ Mascotte,” with its flood
puns, is now on the bill of fare at Sydney
3yal. The heroine, as everybody knows, is a
mng lady who is remarkable for carrying luck
aerever she goes, and apropos of this we may
mark in passing that Dibbs is not a mascotte,
liiie Abigail, who thinks he is one, has made a
werful mistake, and Sir Patrick is a mascotte
rned upside down and with the engine reversed,
te date of the story is very uncertain, but it ob-
jti sly belongs to that period when a blind dys-
ptic with a wooden leg could wheel a barrow
ross three Italian kingdoms in a day’s
n. Consequently Mr. William Elton, as
it tottering old party, the Duka of
jmbiuo, bosses a very small territory, and has
mty of time for looking after details. Ho makes
! Duke an exceedingly amusing little despot,
her unsteady on the legs, restless as a drunken
akoy, conceited, abjectly superstitious, and
rays eager to poke his aged though child-
nose into other people’s business. There is
bay-horse-coloured blush on the end of the
3. too, which leads us to believe that the
entate to whom it belongs is given to drinking
own health frequently. His singing is very
)d, and even the puns improve when he utters
m. Mr. H. Benham takes the part of Rocco, a
stupid, and despondent farmer, whose strabis-
ssed vision leads him to miss his mark when
nig to do homage, and kiss the Duke on the
1 part of his head, just where a small saucer
ms to have been turned upside down on top of
. In the second act he is transformed into a
re shiny flunkey, and in the third he appears
;uised in a spiked beard and whiskers, and
son a bit of gas-pipe. He toots in a very
inal manner. Mr. Woodfleld is not remark-
s as Prince Frittelini, and Mr. Howard Vernon
cos a decidedly good Pippo. Miss Nellie
vart as the Mascotte looks very attractive,
her duet with Pippo is excellent, while Miss
Osborne as Fiametta takes the rest of the
mrs. A number of other individuals stand
id and help on the show, and the melodious
; of the orchestra deserves a word of praise.
## * *
On Guard ” was produced at Sydney
lemy last Saturday, that being the “ first
action in Australia.” According to the bill
a “ Vaudeville,” and, as we are always
ting after knowledge, we are glad to acquire
piece of information, but we would never
! known it if we had not been told. There
27 characters in the piece, such names as
uraps,” “ Turniptops,” and “ Worzell ”
ling out conspicuously ; they try to be musical,
t is impossible to swing a cat in any part of
licce without the spiky end of the animal
ling on to an alleged comic song. Most of
orformers wriggle while they are singing,
-hat adds action to the “ Vaudeville ” and
■a it gee. The author of “On Guard” has
ut his name to it, but it was “ written ex
ly for Mr. Rickards,” and that gentleman
1 to hive confoundedly bad luck in the sort
ngs that are written for him. However, we
no wish to be hypercritical, so we will merely
i conclusion that if we were in search of
ement we would prefer a dog fight that had
struck by lightning, or a Chinese sermon
irod at midnight in a damp cemetery, or a
dth an ancient egg at an Aunt Sally, or any-
of the kind to another look atjj“ On Guard.”
a dead policeman is a rollicking object in
u-ison to it.
vV.
"TV 'A' 'A' 'TV
lambra has gone in for a novelty in the
f minstrel business by running a Hunt Club,
1 who have viewed this latter aver that it
vo 1 libs, and a beating over its own course
thing else in the samo line in Sydney. The
' fact that there is not nor ever has been
n £ in the same lino in Sydney should not be
as dilution of the general praise. Mr. Chas.
iK makes his comic songs and specialty
83 a decided go, and the Groat Oof Bird
round the precincts of the theatre, noctur-
rewarding the enterprise of the grateful
with richly auriferous eggs. This latter is
Vootyped way of saying that the concern
ao a municipal contract, a railway fraud,
mds office forgery.
-21 A. <l*
'TV “TV 'A' 'TV*
Sydney Gaiety the Faust Family are
'sing in a variety of attitudes, and, os the
ses are pretty good, they may, for aught
i W to the contrary, continue to pose until
lay. There is nothing in their performance
ran bring a blush to the cheek of modesty—
mark was originally composed by a curate
ed yoiing—and their entertainment may,
o, claim to rank as a refreshing oasis in
lort of life—another strikingly original ob-
'n anc l deserves a certain amount of
accordingly.
** # *
agricultural hanky-panky,the “Green
j. mgland ” is doing its second week at
oyal Standard, and the whoop of the ex-
not the bottomless one, but the other—
o the public appreciation. There is
particular to notice about the piece except
waihng-comic tailor has improved a little;
11 110 mortal business in the piece,
getting more amusing than at first, and
ushes at his aspirates like a steeplechas-
ing bull charging a gate he always raises a laugh.
Mr. Dampier as Gentleman George, shakes a loose
and ragged log with his wonted success, though we
would back Coonan’s charge of £2 U s. 6d. against
his C harge of the Light Brigade ” any day. It
is delivered in a voice that is as soft as a brick
and as tender as an alligator, and when we heard
it first it made us feel as if somebody had poured
an ice-cream down our spine, “ Little Jim,”
which follows it draws tears from the eyes of a
dissipated heifer named “ Bill,” but he has the
weeping all to himself. “ Louis XL” is to follow
when the “ Green Lanes ” are used up.
** * *
Shakespeare s exquisite pastoral poem
As \ou Like It (this is the only correct and
iccognised way of starting a notice of this show —
ride evening and morning papers) is pretty much
as the public like it at Sydney Opera House. We
mean, of course, as far as Miss Essie Jenyns is
concerned ; if she could play all the parts and take
a hand with the orchestra there is not the
slightest doubt as to the certain popularity of the
representation. Much interest is nightly evinced
in the character of the fawn, admirably played by
an animal that seems to bo a compound structure
half Boodle’s bull pup, and half Soudan goat. This
is really one of the best-played parts in the whole
piece despite the fawntastic attitude the animal
assumes. The scenery lays over anything ever
before seen at Sydney Opera House ; it is pretty as
Brickhill s Baby, and considerably newer.
■fc # # #
Williamson, Gamer, and Co. have got
hold of a really powerful play in “ Jim the Pen-
! man ,” the story of a handsome, fascinating,
wicked good fellow,” who wins fortune and
fame by sheer force of genius for copying other
peoples’ signatures. It was only put up for a
week at the Melbourne Bijou, but this short pre-
iminary canter gave promise of grand gallops
later on. As Jim, Mr. St. Maur is immense. To
the very life he represents the Nature’s nobleman
who has played the wrong game. One of the
victimised members of the ring paid the actor the
compliment of hinting that “he might be the
who forged them queer notes.” “ Jim the
Penman has gone to Adelaide, a city where his
tricks that are vain should be followed with
unusual interest.
Dr. Lynn has been ill-advised in opening
his conjuring show at the Freemasons’ Hall, Mel
bourne. The building is altogether out of the
way, and business is accordingly shy. In his
own line there are none better than the genial
doctor. His latest European novelty, the
“ Vanishing Lady,” is decidedly tricky. A news-
paper is spread upon the floor, a chair is put on
tl e newspaper, and a lady is put on the chair.
The doctor envelopes lady and chair in a black
shroud, he lifts it off the empty chair, and the
vanished lady quietly walks on from the side. It
is an excellent trick, but easy of imitation. We
shall probably have other vanishing ladies before
I)r, Lynn has had the chance of catching on. In
appearance the wizard is a cross between G. A.
Sala and Professor Semple.
** * *
George Darrell, judging from an Argu.s
sketch, bearing his revered signature, respects
himself more as an author than as an actor.
George says : “It would open the eyes of not a
few of the critics were they enabled to witness the
mysteries and machinery of the first production
of a new play. Viewing from the front, the spec-
tator invariably awards his praise for a successful
performance to the actor and actress. ‘ How ad-
mirably So-and-so played such and such a part!
What a splendid piece of business he or she did in
that great scene ! ’ True enough, but in 19 cases
out of 20 the author had written in his MS. that
splendid piece of business, and the stage manager
had exp'ained it to the artist interpreting the
part.” In expressing a certain amount of con
f
Vl 1
d
“TURNED UP,” AT THE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
I tempt for star ” performances, George is only
echoing the sentiments of his brother versatile
genius, Dion Boucicault. But we think he gives
the critics credit for more innocence than they can
lay claim to. _ A ( very slight acquaintance with
tw th Pr ° feSSlon sufflces to prove to anyone
that the average actor is incapable of saying or
doing anything smart that has not been taught
elS( r. The actor ’ s art is the art
of faithfully interpreting another fellow’s ideas—
of saying another fellow’s good things so as to
convey the impression that they are coming out of
his oww head. At times, certainly, an actor
gags his part. He gags it with little bits that
he purloins from other parts, or with flash witti-
cisms picked up at street-corners. Nevertheless
there are many different ways of sucking other
people s brains, and certain actors suck with more
intelligence than others. It is not a dramatic
iritm s busmess to be continually pointing out
.hat the ordinary player merely says and does
vhat is set down for him. We know it. Even
is we know that George is alone responsible for
he splendid pieces of business” which he perpe-
rates as the heroes of his own dramas.
#* # #
A sea-serpent has been observed cruising
a fc j e , Hu ? SOn River ’ and Barnum has offered
0,000 dols. for the illustrious monster dead or
live. Two officers of a warship, who saw the
armmt, have made affidavits to their statements
concerning him. Similar affidavits have been
made often enough, but nevertheless the uncap-
tured serpent—or serpents—will remain a stand-
ing jest to newspaper writers. London journalists
m (who ridiculed the stories of octopi,
until they saw a miserable specimen at the West-
minster Aquarium) make very merry at the ex-
The conß equence is that
w uy old salts decline to have the monsters brought
under their notice. Some years ago a graphic
description of the serpent ” was given by the
crew and passengers of a sailing vessel. The cap-
tain alone knew nothing about it. He had locked
himself in his cabin immediately upon hearing
that his old marine acquaintance was in view.
When some of the passengers shouted to him to
come out and see for himself the wise mariner
merely said that he “ wasn’t going to make jokes
for a-lot of darned landsmen,” and advised his
friends to shut their eyes and hold their tongues,
the increduhty of ignoramuses as to the existence
ot these creatures seems remarkable when we re-
member that the Diggest reputed serpent is a
paltry marvel compared with a well-grown whale.
*# * #
Why “ Human Nature,” the “ great Drury
Lane success,” now running at Melbourne Royal
was called “Human Nature,” is not exactly clear
1 erhaps on account of the eccentric behaviour o 1
its characters. If we accept Shakespeare’s declara
tion that this is a mad world, then there is some
thing essentially human about this play. But th
question is not worth considering on. People are
crowding to the Royal to see folding scenery, des
perate battles, excited supers laid on regardless o
expense, and—above all—the most moving spec
taclo that has ever been put before the Australian
public. This is the return of the British troops
from their murderous career in Egypt. By an
artful scenic arrangement the returned warrion
appear to be marching through dense crowds of
creatures of our imagination. Right in the fore
ground is a mob of real live boys, fighting push
mg, and howling round the Trafalgar Square lions.
, a , s S ene which knocks George Rignold the
r irth s triumphal entry into London into a cocked
nat. It moves the ladies in the gallery to wave
their handkerchiefs, the gentlemen in the pit to
expectorate with glee, and the audience, gener-
ally, to sit up. There has been a lot of money
spent upon the mounting of “ Human Nature ”
the Triumvirate have freely cast their bread
upon the waters. But it will assuredly come
back to them after many nights. There are about
30 characters required to set off the scenery of
this play, Titheradge is the military hero and
rides about on a good-looking and docile chargor
Herbert Flemming, Greville, and Philip Beck are
villains in various departments of life. Mr. Beck
• 3 ft n ® s P e °j al monster. Originally an officer
in tne Khedive's service, he takes command of
the boudan Arabs, and—mark this ! teaches them
not to throw themselves upon British bayonets.
This artfulness on the part of the “ traitor” was
bitterly execrated by a gallant British colonel,
who found the Arab blood supply running short.
G. VV. Anson carries off what honours there are
as a comic lawyer’s clerk. His words are few—
his business speaks eloquently. Among the ladies
Misses Maggie Knight and Jenny Watt-Tanner
icpiesent virtue and the other thing respectively.
Miss Knight is called upon to do some most ridi-
culous tricks on account of her cheeild, but she
does them very well. Asa kind of “ poor Joe,”
little Miss Bella Russell plays out-and-out well.
Although a half-starved waif, with no flesh on
his bones, this Joe (or Dick rather) gets some nice
littlfe bits of fat in his part. We found ourselves
nearly weeping for the kid once or twice. Which
reminds that “Human Nature” is not so mis-
named after all. With a hundred absurdities of
plot and impossible incidents are mixed up pas-
sages which appeal to the sympathies in a rough
and ready way. On the night of our visit an
enthusiastic god shouted out “ Good ! ” from time
to time. And every time he cried “ good ! ” we
murmured ditto ”in a melodious mezzo-soprano
peculiarly our own.
i n Saturday last, at the Melbourne Biiou.
Miss Minnie Palmer and Cos. gave the 1590th per!
™“ ce . of M y Sweetheart.” To criticise a
1590th performance in other than honeyed words
° ne ’ s head against the solid stone-
wall of fact. Miss Palmer brought with her a
genume reputation ; yet upon an Australian
■- rGad f Prepared to take an impression,
f Palraer failed to make a very deep one on the
night of her debiit. The personal charm of the
actress, her dainty quainty costume, and pheno-
menal stockings compel admiration. She dances
with grace. She sings with expression, and her
voice is sufficiently powerful for a small theatre,
nut costumes, stockings, songs, and dances only
icighten the absurdity of the three-act molo-
Iramatic farce written to show them off.
is siaimers apparel is inconsistent with
he character she plays. Supposed to be a rustic
man 'ying age, she iooks like a 12-year.
'ld child at a fancy-dress ball. And when she
las a fancy to dance in the garden, day is in-
tan tly turned into night in order that
loonbeams may fall athwart the dancer’s white
ress. It is difficult to regard “My Sweetheart’
xcept as a pretty variety performer. The sup*
ortis good enough with an exception. The ex-
eption is about good enough to chop up for fire-
wood. We have a notion that Miss Palmer was
ot seen at her best on the opening night,
** * *
Minnie Palmer is described as “ a pretty
ossy-haired little creature, with blue eyes and
cheeks and babyish looks,” and is “hardlv
gger than a child of 10.” She is accompanied
~ er husband, who, according to the same
> rde , r ’ *® alao her manager,” but we have
nibts on this score. It is so very seldom the hus-
, 18 mmiager, and we guess this flossy little
igel will soon be managing him The spark
!V^r laS u f lf d from the once bright and clever
d ii/r Ma o Shal ’ Who had long been mentally dead.
...Mr. Spong, a clever young English scene-
inter, who seems to be possessed of forensic aa
311 as of artistic genius, gets £IOOO a year from
ilhamson and Cos. to come to Australia... Misa
ane de Grey was at latest playing at the Grand.
lagto ° Mr - Alfred Cellier, now in Sydney,
•ote the music of “Dorothy,” a comedy-opera
nch, according to the papers, is going to be a
’ sacc ess at London Gaiety. It contains a
run ting chorus and dance, which are likely to
mse enthusiasm.”,.,,.,G. Gould (son of Jay G.
and heir to 00 millions) has married Miss Edith
ngdon, a beautiful young actress, at whom
Vales > r when he saw her, couldn’t help making
The mouth of our ancient friend Emily
dene is again inspiring American humorists,
irs have rolled away since first they saw it and
’e amazed at its generous proportions, but they
we never forgotten it, and when they beheld ifc
o more, the other week, in full working order
* s , ied themselves in concocting another
ffi of brutal personalities. Women’s mouths
e all along received undue attention from the
uart American journalist. Kate Field was
ken of once as wearing “ her store teeth.”
s is a society item, but it has got out of place*
ehow. Mr. Harry Lynch, of the Bellringers,
xactly eight years, to the very day, younger
n the Prince of Wales. We decline to sav
r much more virtuous and beautiful he is than
future Defender of the Faith A circus-
’ormer,who stole the venerated name of Aligns.
Loftus and some other things besides, has just
i rewarded with a month’s gaol at Rich.
‘d, Vic. His performance in prison
probably have a longer run than it has
had before The Sydney D.T. says that
lonable crowds are eager to see Rosalind
ed ‘as only Miss Essie Jenyns can play it.”
no one much is eager to read theatrical gush,
ten as only critics of the D.T. stamp can
3 it.
The real over-pressure—tight lacing.
Mr. Jack Want, the N. S. W. Attorney-
General, won £5000 ox* so over over Arsenal’s Cun
victory.
The N.S.W. Parliament has at Goulbur
found an apologist who says it only contains s
hopeless boozers.
Miss Florence Marryatt says that th
proper way to treat men is to “sit on them
Don t our trousers bag at the knees enoug i
already ?
Governor Carington was robbed of hi
scarf-pin by a Melbourne Imperial Federationis;
last week. This is the most flagrant case of pro
fessional discourtesy on record.
It is cabled that “ the Hon. Finch-Hatto
writes to the Times and charges Sir Samue
Griffith with endeavouring to damage the golc -
mining industry of Queensland.” The Hon
Finch-Hatton had better subside. The gold-min
he floated didn’t much benefit the mining industr
of Queensland.
Mr. Thomas Garrett, M.L.A., says that
like conscious criminals, the N.S.W. Governmen
dare not stand their trial. Thomas says what is par-
tially true. It isn’t that the Government are s
afraid of 1‘arkes, Thomas’ accuser in the Milbur
Creek case, as that they know they haven’t s
well-packed a iury as the Parliamentary one whic i
let Thomas off when he was wrongfully accuse!
of fraud.
Still more N.S.W. state frauds ! Some o
the crown lands officials, it is said, have bee
calmly selling land without the knowledge of the
Government, and Mr. Wilby Morton Ollivier ( t
partner in the firm of H. H. Brown (M.P.), an/
Co., land agents), who is already under coinmitta
for alleged fraud, has been again arrested—foi
forgery of titles. If all that is stated be true
Mr. Ollivier has “gone to war with a light heart.’
According to Mr. B E. Wise, the N.S.W.
Protectionists have so retrograded tha:
the Freetraders will at next general election have
a majority variously estimated at five to one to
five to two. The more enthusiastic of the Pro-
tectionists, on the other hand, calculate upon se-
curing at least 70 seats out of 122. It is a signifi-
cant fact that there are in the present House 65
members ready to vote for a stiff tax on imported
I farm produce. And yet Mr. Wise says Protection
has made no progress !
Mr. T. Garrett, M.L.A., of Milburn Creek
notoriety, says he is “a free-trader”— ahem
“ in principle,” but—amusing qualification !—
“ Heremii ded his hearersthat he had voted for the taxes or,
kerosene, sugar, beer, maize, and wines. Andlfa
were necessary to adopt specific duties, or any other duty
whatever (if revenue charged could alter it), to develop and
promote the industries of the country, and the
ment of the people, then he would not hesitate to (toit-if
the case were made out. ... If we rmilH 11
people to make an industry profitable, ha thought he would
not allow his adherence to Freetrado to stand in the wav
■■ "e could see no wisdom in wildly choosing theory'
although sound in itself, if it was practically destructive to
those whom they were bound to consider first." 1
Good Heavens ! Mr. Pulsford, are you listening ?
Is this the kind of politician who is to reuresent
the N.S.W. Freetrade Association at the next
general election ?


Pepper
and
Salt
To temperance lecturers in search of a
moral we would suggest that Arsenal s victory in
i he Melbourne Cup supplies an excellent one.
.’hat animal left Sydney on Thursday with a tank
,,f cold water and some oats—thoughtfully pro-
vided by his owners, who didn’t wish to expose him
to the risks attendant on a change of diet- and on
. he ensuing Tuesday he won the great race from
i crowd of heavily-backed and artistically-trained
competitors. Arsenal, however, being only a
horse, was sensible enough to load a strictly tem-
perate life before he started on his journey. Had
■ ie quartered himself at Petty’s Hotel, as a man
would have done, and swallowed heavy cham-
i ague dinners and late suppers, and squatted in
the hilliard-room smoking strong cigars and sip-
ping whisky and maraschino, and laughing a
horse-laugh at the inane jokes going round : had
he played nap. till 2 a.m. and poker till daylight,
and yelled unceasingly in horse language for
brandy and soda, and started for Melbourne with
his countenance stuck out of the carriage-window
singing “ We won’t go home till morning,’ and
.ushed out for beer and sandwiches at every
station, and finally had a regular Bourke-street
debauch on Monday night and came on the course
with a hiccup and a fearful horse head on him in
, ] ie morning, his chance would have been pain-
fully small. If any clerical gentleman wants to
point a moral and adorn a tale here is his oppor-
l unity.
The historical monkey who painted his
tail sky-blue is not a circumstance compared to
the Melbourne Argus when it gets on tho subject
of “Homoculture.” This science, which was re-
cently founded in England by Sir George Campbell,
is designed for the improvement of the human
race by judicious breeding, and the Argus, after-
viewing it all round, gives a half-hearted approval
to Sir George’s delirious fad, and bestows on it its
second-best blessing. In the golden future, when
homoculture is fully established, men and women
are to marry solely with a view to perpetuating
some particularly muscular breed of mankind.
The lady whose ancestors came in with the Con-
queror, if she be slender and undersized, will then
stand no chance in spite of beauty, intellect, or
any other attractive qualities, against Sarah
Jones, bred by John Jones from Jane Tomkins by
old Tomkins, always provided old Tomkins was at
least 18 hands high, and the strain hnd been care-
fully kept up; and on the same irciple the
N.S.W. politician would be c. with the
stentorian fish-fag in order to propagate a race of
burly chuckers-out with a taste for politics, thiev-
ing, and yelling. Such things as affection and sent i-
ment Sir George Campbell and the Argus appar-
ently think entirely out of place, as long as a breed
of turnip-headed giants is carefully maintained,
and when the human race is sufficiently educated
in the new theory it will load Shakespeare
with contempt because he did not mate the
slender and delicate Juliet with a bullock-puncher
In order to import weight and muscle into a family
where these attributes were much wanting, and
I natch Romeo with a 15-stone German frau to
one down his too fiery temperament. Similarly,
ho Argus might ho crossed with the Sunday
\ t ews to the advantage of both papers, in order
,o mitigate drought on the one hand and drivel on
he other, and at the same time to perpetuate a
Valuable strain of solid lying which might other-
wise deteriorate; and the average N.S.W. Minister
might hybridise with a gas-meter with the same
and in view. Should homocnlture become the
religion of the future it will have a great mission
before it in propagating an obstinate and wooden-
headed race, and the “driven bullocks” of the
N.S.W. Legislature, after a few generations of
tliis'mode of culture, will attain an elephantine
size and ferocity which will involve serious
danger to the lives and well-being of the colonists.
For, unhappily, the system applies to muscle
rather than to intellect ;it can perpetuate bone
and bullying of which the country has already
more than enough, but its effect when brain is
wanted are not likely to be in any way gratifying.
HOME.SWELT HOME
Cwitrt oKs)
fyuMjpr
AN INCIDENT OF THE MELBOURNE CUP.
The tS.A. jubilee ode is now to hand, and
Lho author thereof oxalteth his horn, for
he has beaten 121 competitors. The ode
is in the usual style of Australian sheop-shearing
poetry ; it is a solomno-gay production with a
horrid wail for a chorus, and the rhymes remind
us in places of Noah's famous effort when he tried
to make Ham rhyme with Shorn and had to call
his second son Sham to keep up the inspiration.
The first verso, however, goes pretty smoothly
thus: —
“ Queenly and fair, with eager, earnest eyes
Ilndimmed by sorrow, Young Australia stands
Set in the summer sea, ’neath summer skies ;
And to the Motherland holds outstretched hands.”
Unfortunately, however, there is no mention of
the jubilee in the whole affair, and though this
verse is the best it does not explain how Australia
“ stands sot,” which seems an awkward attitude.
The other 124 productions were put in the Jubilee
waste-paper basket, but an extract from one of
them has been rescued and a S.A. paper vouches
for its accuracy. Here it is :
“ We beat them all in corn and wine,
And cereal pursuits;
In products of the loom and mine,
In buggies and in boots.
Chorus —Jump for joy at our jubilee,
Jig and jingle jollily,
Joyful jingoes all are we
Shout for South Australi-ee.”
We give our vote for this last “pome,” and
though the brag in the fourth line may bo a glaring
perversion of the truth it is a better production
than the picture of Australia standing set in the
sea and holding out her bankrupt claw to
England.
* * *
A new clerical relaxation has been started
in England, something rather bettor than a tea-
meeting, but not quite so good as a picnic with a
kittenish curate to take the lead in a game of kiss-
in-the-ring. You get a lot of old boots and put
them on a temporary platform, get a lot of friends
together, and then put a clergyman up among the
boots. The rev. party then starts to read some-
thing from the prayer-book, with one eye on the
crowd and the other on the holy volume, while in
default of any more eyes he keeps the back of his
head fixed on the boots. The duty of the shepherd
is to shy a boot at each individual who fails to do
the responses properly, and an active pastor will
sometimes have as many as three bluchers and a
slipper whizzing through the air at once. As.the
game goes on of course the excitement becomes
intense, and it*generally ends in an all-round
romp ; a broken-backed prayer-book flies to the
ceiling, the air is full of boots, everybody kisses
everybody else, and the sacred function finally
winds up with tea and buns. This sort of thing
is reckoned to be healthy exercise.
I Now that the “Escaped Nun” has got
over her little difficulty at Lismore, N.S.W., her
friends and foes have had time to estimate the
cost of their Christian spree. Among other things
they have been drawing up a list of the weapons
used to break civilised heads in the name of Him
of Nazareth, and so far the list includes 287 blud-
geons, clubs, and brain-destroying knobsticks of a
similar description, 210 horse-whips, 87 pieces of
paling, of which 19 were jagged and 24 had
long nails sticking out, 64 feet of gaspipe,
19 time-payment table-legs, 4 pokers, 2
revolvers for blowing the insides out of Catholics,
3 dinner-knives to he jabbed into Protestants, 1
leather strap, 1 stocking with abible inside to give
it weight, the leg-bone of a horse, 319 pieces of
jagged crockery, a lamp-post, 1 skull with a sec-
tarian sneer on the jaw, 15 umbrellas, of which 9
had been borrowed from parsons, while the tenth
looked very like one a Cardinal used to carry, a
rope with a brick and the Gospel according to St.
Mark tied to the end, a pulpit-rail, a baptismal
font, a fragment of a grave-stone, on which ap-
peared something about “ brotherly love, ’ a de-
canter and a beer-pump. The returns are not yet
quite complete.
* * *
The following is from that inane paper the
Sydney Echo, which on Saturday last actually,
and in all seriousness, devoted its leading article
to showing that servants should not be brought
into the drawing-room and treated as members of
the family lest they should steal the jam :
“If anyone thinks that hi pointing out this danger we are
hard on ‘ Mary,’ we would advise him to take lodgings and
buy a pot of jam—apricot jam is the best. There is some-
thing comic in the gradual disappearance of that pot or jam
which your consch nee tells you that you are J 1 0", citing.
The gradual steps vary in such a way as to afford a dub dan t
materials for observation.. At first the jam disappears
slowly—very slowly. Towards the middle of the pot the
land-marks are less obvious. Tne check upon temptation is
less appallinglv clear. But presently the treacherous depths
dry up, and the spoon or finger begins to bump against the
shallows. At last the bottom is reached, and then comes
the innocent observation, ‘ Please, sir, you have eaten all
your'jam/ ”
We always did think the Echo staff lived on‘bread
and jam, that viand being cheaper now-a-days
than locusts and wild honey ; but still they need
not fill up the leader with tales about their victuals.
They are always doing something of this kind,
and that is why a respectable man, when he finds
himself alone with the Echo in a desert, makes a
point of prancing upon that journal and cursing
the editor.
* * *
Some of the brave defenders of N.S.W.
are so short of clothes that if an enemy landed to-
morrow the former would have to fight in the
breezy costume of the South Sea" Island warrior.
The Sydney Permanent Artillery braves, for in-
stance, have not yet received the clothing which
should have been served out at the beginning of
the year, and the consequence is t hat some of
them are in the predicament of Adam before the
Fall. A few days ago one of the gunners ap-
peared on parade with the proper uniform cap and
coat but a pair of soogee-bag pants of the common
civilian cut and build. He was sternly told by the
officer in command that if ever again he showed
up in such an unseemly rig he would he blown
from the cannon’s mouth or have his tobacco
stopped, or be visited with some other fearful
punishment. When the next parade was ealled,
the unfortunate warrior with the scarecrow cos-
tume felt that he was in a considerable fix. He
knew that if he did not attend he would be “•run
in,” at the very least, and if he did attend in his
former rig ho "onl 1 served the same, so be-
took a sheet oil the bed, wrapped it round his
manly form, and stepped out boldly to his place in
the ranks. In spite of all his efforts to please,
however, he was marched off and treated to a
night in the guard-room. Next morning he was
hauled along before the gallant Colonel, who let
him off with a full-sized caution. Now he sees
nothing for it but to blacken his legs and paint
red stripes down the sides, and the time seems to
be close at hand when the Colonel can truthfully
say with Falstaff, “ There’s but a shirt and a half
in all my company ; and the half-shirt is two
napkins tacked together.”
AFTER THE CUP.
(THAT TIP.)
The day broke fair and the wind blew light
And the world was early up—
The world of Melbourne and miles around
Was all astir and all wore bound
To see the Melbourne Cup.
And none was more knowing than he who writes,
“ You put your money on ”
i Vnd then he whispered a name between)
' i'was the tip of the Sydney Bullyteen
And the name was Little John !!
Then the author of this most doleful dirge,
As fly as fly could be,
Put fifty pounds of his money on
L ’aa Bulletin horse called Little John ;
“ Now, right you are,” quoth he.
And I looked deep down in his rolling eyes
And saw them dance with joy ;
“You deserve a sip
Tor that splendid tip,”
And he murmured, “ Irroy.”
Then I joined the thousands and laughed with
glee
And felt inclined to sing,
And my heart out ran
To that Bulletin man,
For I’d bust the blooming ring.
My mind was lost in these guileless thoughts
When sudA*nly rose a cry—
“They’re off.” “They’ve started!” and I could
sec
Through the balmy air’s transparency
The great Cup horses fly.
Trenton! Bohemian ! Sivermino !—
Lord ! how they seemed to rush ;
And the thousands of men how pale were they,
Twas make or mar on the Cup that day—
I could feel the awful hush.
Bravo now draws a length away,
But I kept my eyes fixed on
The horse that I knew was bound to win —
1 felt that no other horse was “ in ”
That race but Little John !
They’re round again, and then the shouts,-
As the horses reach the straight,
Were like the roar of men gone mad
With every passion good or bad
Of hope—and fear and hate.
’Tis Trident! Trenton ! but my trained ear
Could catch no sound that told
Of the grand long rush when spur and whip,
\nd .of course the infallible Bulletin tip
Would fill my purse wit h gold.
Then an ominous sound of a name that before
Had greeted no car at all,
Rose from the crowd—and the name was not
The one that I from that scribe had got,
But simply Arsenal!
lie won—I sought through the maddening crowd
That man, but they said he’d flown
Precisely as Arsenal passed the post
For a distant part of the Arctic coast
By special telephone.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
“Lord Cairns is engaged to be married.”
What, again!
“ A political mud-lark ” is what Reynolds’
newspaper playfully calls Sir Arthur Hodgson.
A wicked Newcastle paper says Jubilee
Young has become fat during his term of office.
Henniker Heaton has lost his case against
the cabman whom he tried to beat out of sixpence.
The friends of Judge Windeyer have not
been inactive re the vacant N.S.W. Chief Justice-
ship.
The Earl of Dalkeith, who met his death
by a gun-accident in Scotland just before the mail
left, was heir to £250,000 a year.
A London paper says the Queen is so fond
of Henry of Battenberg, that if he wanted the top
I brick off the chimney she would have it displaced
and gilded for presentation to him.
The Melbourne Herald speaks of Dean
Hook as being the father of practical joking. This
is one of the little blunders peculiar to evening
journals. Theodore Hook was the joker, and the
Dean (Walter Farquhar Hook) was an exception-
ally sanctimonious sermoniscr.
The Australasian states that a respected
Anglican bishop who was being entertained at a
country parsonage recently, left the house with
some very unchristian remarks and took refuge in
a hotel, all because he found a peaceful mamma
cat and six kittens in his bedroom.
Sir Saul Samuel’s resignation has not yet
come off. In spite of half-a-dozen rumours about
his retirement the stout old warrior is still at his
post, and the “representative Australians” who
want to see a more pliant individual occupying
his place are sitting despondently on some duke’s
doorstep.
Some of the local papers have been gush-
ing over the fact that Sir Robert Stout, the N.Z.
Premier, condescended to look after a kit of pota-
toes for a poor boy in Dunedin lately while the
urchin went a message. Strange to say nobody
has noticed the remarkable instance of trustful-
ness displayed by the boy.
It is announced that “ Sir Samuel Griffith
has been asked to help the British public to dis-
tinguish the genuine Queensland mines from the
false.” Sir Sawmill only wishes to goodness he
could, but he thinks the best mines to invest in
are those whose owners pay him a good fee to
defend the case when their claims are jumped.
Ben Bolt’s backers for the Melbourne Cup
were ready prepared with rosettes of the to-be-
winning colours. When Ben cantered in half-a-
dozen lengths in front of everything else (which
he didn’t) the triumphant backers were to flash
out the rosettes. As things eventuated they
kept a discreet silence about the intended demon-
stration.
Sir William Fox, the N. Z. apostle of tem-
perance, has been sat upon. He called on
Tawhiao, the Maori King, and that potentate re-
plied that he was not at home, and candidly ex-
plained his reason. He said that temperance men
ate twice as much as drinking sinners, and in
addition they generally borrowed money before
they left.
This is how a Rockhampton paper prints a
libellous letter
“ Sir,—Mr. (understood) has been in (understood) for the
past 10 years. After he came out of (understood) he ran
away with another man’s (understood). He was (understood)
three times. When the constituents learn all those cirouni
stances (understood) they’ll surely not elect Mr. (understood)
to a seat in the Council,” &c.
The Princess of Wales so pardonably prides
herself upon retaining a youthful appearance that
she must find her mother a severe trial. Yes, the
Queen o! Denmark gets older every year, and per-
sisted in celebrating her 69th birthday on Septem-
ber 7th. This is rough on the Princess. What is
the use of getting Time to stand still for you while
yon have to plead guilty to being the first child or
a septuagenarian mamma ?
At the opening of the Barker Memorial
Chapter House, the other day, the Bishop of
Sydney remarked that the building had been
raised in “ grateful remembrance of one who was
a long and faithful servant of Godin this diocese.
Now, as the late Bishop stood about 6ft. 6in. in
his socks, we are ready to admit that this state-
ment of Bishop Barry’s has more, foundation than
ordinary clerical assertions.
The news that Mr. Frank Harris has been
appointed editor of the Fortnightly Review
comes as a startler to those who happen to know
Mr. Harris. He was even considered dull enough to
edit the Evening News, a little daily sheet sub-
sidised by the Tories. A colonial who goes to
England prepared to worship the ruling powers,
literary or political,thereof, is speedily disillusioned
when he bumps against an ’Arris.
The dulcet-voiced layers of the odds were
“ had” with any number of forged “ tenners” at
Elemington races. There was wailing among the
tribe of Benjamin on discovering that they nad
been the chosen people for the “clever ones’ ” at-
tentions. And there were curses, loud and deep,
when it was found that the dailies had put the
guileless public on their guard and spoilt the
chance of passing the “ flash Tins” on in the usual
way of business 19
The Queen was recently presented by th e
citizens of Glasgow with an umbrella, the handle
of which consisted of a ball of line gold. Its size
is not stated, but if it is intended to cover tn®
whole family it must consist of a circus-tent Axed
on a telegraph-pole, and two middle-sized whales
must have been ransacked to supply the ribs.
Even then we fear Battenberg would have w
stand on the suburbs of the crowd with the drip-
pings from the umbrella-top running down his
spine.
Lord Lonsdale, treasurer and traveling
companion to Miss Violet ('aileron (whose hus-
band he kicked out the other day), has locked ou-
the miners at his Whitehaven.collieries, owing \
their refusing to agree to an unfair reduction i
their weekly wage. Thus the , u r workers un
the earth and their wives and children are -O "
loft to starve, while Lord Lonsdale, the debauch
patron of a multitude of church-livings, carne
on his expensive spec, as a showman, and induig
in his whim of chaperoning an opora-bouffe & Ul •


Among the visitors just now in Sydney is
Hon. Howard Spensley, formerly Attorney-Gene-
ral for Victoria, and afterwards member for Fins-
bury in the British House of Commons. Mr.
Spensley contested the seat again at last general
election, but was defeated by only five votes, a
result really owing to the over-confidence of his
friends. Mr. Spensley was an ardent supporter
of Mr. Gladstone, and is a “ representative Aus-
tralian " d£ a very different tppe from these who
lisiially drink and dine at high-toned sprees across
tile water.
What N.S.W. wants above all things else
to-clay is a Phrliandent composed of men who have
no relatives of any description in existence. Only
the other day the managing comuiittee of the Tert-
terfleld railway demonstration invited a certain
member to attend the opening ceremony, and
here’s the reply that was sent
H p fa , sir*,—! am pleased to aoknowledje the receipt of
von r kind invitation to the banquet and ball to be holden at
Tenteriield on the sth October 1886, and shall endeavour to
be present; and if you could send invitations tojny son and
brother, you will extremely oblige.—Yom 3 truly, J M ,
Ksq.,M.P.”
“ Who really did send away the N.S.W.
Contingent to the Soudan is the question now
asked all over London ? ” writes a Bulletin cor-
respondent. “ Every M.L.A., past, present, or to
come, now being feted by an admiring crowd of
colonial- worshippers in London and the Provinces,
claim to have been the really moving spirit, while
poor ‘ Plain Bill’s ’ name is not even mentioned.
On one occasion it was really beautiful to hear a
‘ legislator of N.S.W. of 17 years standing’ (for
thus he described himself when answering an in-
vitation), fix his Cupid-like gaze on his inquiring
audience and cover himself with Contingentglory,
as he smiled over his buttoned-up frock-coat.”
Dr. Bevan, the shepherd imported to tend
the Melbourne flock of the late D, Jones Hamer,
was escorted by a “ host of sympathising friends”
to the boat which bore him from old England.
The worthy object of commiseration was leaving
home, friends and country to jump into a billet
worth £llOO a year. But he didn’t go of his own
accord, dear friends. No, the Loard told him to
accept the rise of screw and he meekly obeyed.
Betide the sympathy of his English friends. In
the shale Why hll Melbourne, we jit With Dr. Moot-
house when the Loard called hirii across thh seas
to a fatter bishopric. Heigho ! If Dr. Bevan re-
members that Providence ordains all these things
for the best he will endeavour to bear up as he
pockets his first quarterly eheque.
Hall, the N.Z. wife-poisoner, has
fairly eclipsed all previous artists in that
line by the daring and diabolical ingenuity
6f Ms trims. When his victim was re-
duced by the poison he had giveh her to
such a condition of weakness that she
was unable to take any nourishment
by mouth, and the doctors ordered an in-
jection of brandy to sustain the feeble
flicker of life still remaining, this extra-
ordinary monster actually poisoned the
brandy supplied for the purpose. Fortu-
nately, the appearance of the liquor,
after being drugged, excited the suspicions
8f the nurse, and the injection was not
liven; This was the aflt Of Vil-
lainy which led to his immediate arrest;
as the police having failed to lay an in-
formation, Doctor MTntyre took the re-
sponsibility on himself, and so saved his
patient’s life.
Another eminent Smith has just
been heard of, only this one’s name is
SbHmithler., tye in a Pasha and was long
ago thought to be ilea,d, bht It now ap*
pears that all this time he has been hold-
ing out with a garrison of 3000 Egyp-
tians at Wadyly, 800 miles south of
Khartoum. Moreover, he has not been
keeping a pathetic diary, or telegraphing
to the British authorities that he trusts
in God but must have an army sent to
his assistance at once, or getting Aus-
tralian contingents despatched to look
for him ; he has simply been holding
Sn like a grim and dogged Smith to a
far Worse plage than Khartoum; ahd after
thi-ee years Of this gatUty iiin he
sends a me sage in which he asks for
victuals and nothing more.
“What strikes the Frenchmen as
so ridiculous,” says Truth, “is not only
the regularity with which the chief witness
against Dilke (Mrs. Crawford) kept a
diary, but the theory that a selfish, self-
seeking, sly, prudent, cautious, ambitious
Isolitical man, who is in the habit of weigh-
hg his words and guarding his lips,
should he SO, gratuitously, so feadly,
Bq thitabuiolisiy (ill thb. spflbfe of time in
which he had to talk) communicative
about damning sins and offences.” Public
opinion about the Dilke case is, it is plain,
fast coming round.
George Washington was summoned
in the R.M. Court, Wellington (N.Z.), the
other day, for a little debt he owed. We
always guessed George would get into
some little trouble like this before he
shuffled off. A boy who started by
being too good to tell a lie was bound to
get hard-up in his old age. By the bye,
George must now be getting well up in
years.
General Kaulbars, the newly-
appointed Russian Agent at Sofia, whose
name now constantly crops up in cable-
grams, is described as “ one of the most
able emissaries of Russia—suave in
manner, but reticent in conversation,
firm and resolute in purpose, with the
frigid determination indispensable in a
man charged with a delicate and
dangerous duty. He unites to these
qualities the enthusiastic belief in the
mission of his race that characterises
men midway between civilisation and bar-
barism. ’
At the coronation of his glorious Majesty
George IV , when the boiled oil was poured over
bis Teutonic locks until he looked like a tallow-
candle guttering in a doorway, the Archbishop
enjoined him to be a father to the people, and
George said he would—as much as possible. As
a result of this virtuous resolve, Caroline Guelph
- one of the ladies to whom he was a father —ap-
plied the other day to the Camberwell Board of
Guardians for relief. She said she was cousin to
Gie Queen, but, as George had left her no assets
except a bar-sinister—an article which no pawn
broker would negotiate—she was utterly desti-
tute. She declined to go to the workhouse, and
she produced evidence in support of her state-
ments, she was allowed somewhere about half-a-
crown a week. If George had not had such a
loose way of being a father to the people this poor
Wo. lady might have been Queen of England to-day
instead of being destitute at the age of 70.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Eight oftheN.S.W, Cabinet are said to
be in favoUr of declaring openly for Protection.
Hon. G. R. Dibbs is about to sue Mr.
Albert Elkington for alleged slanders Uttered at a
recent public meeting. Mr. Elkington says he
will be glad to meet Mr. Dibbs in court.
The standard of manners in the British
Parliament is not improving. “Liar,” “rebel,”
“gaol-bird,” “renegade,”and “scurrilous wretch”
are a few of the terms used in a recent sitting.
British patriotism again. The Burmese
troops, who have been making so much trouble,
buy their rifles from a British Arm in Calcutta
and get them smuggled through the Rangoon
Custom House.
The New Hebrides difficulty has been
Neither France nor Britain is to land
troops on the island, and the French troops already
landed are to stay. There is nothing like a Tory
Government for a spirited foreign policy.
“ By all means,” the Prince of Wales is
reported to have said, “ let the residuum come to
the Exhibition in their thousands ; but don’t let
them come on any day when lam there.” Similar
speeches were made on the eve of the French Re-
volution.
King Gongumhana, who lives somewhere
in Southern Africa, has, according to recent
cables, revolted against the horde of Portuguese
thieves and slave-dealers who boss his native
land. Congurn seems to be a plucky pagan, so we
vtish hind every sUc'csdS.
Vanity Fair saiys ilieti the deports from
all points at which the German Army m’anceuVres
have been going on represent it to be in a state
df
— |
d
fd
f
dfd
f
mm
“An excellent portrait of Sir Henry Parkes has been painted by a Chinese artist."
—Sydney Daily Paper.
of equipment and organisation almost without
parallel. Tbuth alleges that the French army is
much worse than in 1870.
Sir Charles Lilley, of Queensland, has
also got a jubilee image to set up. The colony
has no university, and he wishes to establish one
next year, and name the seat of learning after an
old German lady whose whole education would
not stock an infant school.
Mr. Francis Abigail, M.P. for West
Sydney, denies that he has five relatives in the
Civil Service. As this statement has been so
much affirmed and so often, it is possible that
some one may have visited the Zoo and based his
information on what he saw there.
That most disgraceful and iniquitous job,
the appointment of the debilitated Sir William
Stawell to the Lieutenant-Governorship of Vic-
toria, is saddled by Duncan Gillies on to Sir
Henry Loch. According to Duncan it was the
autocratic Governor who recommended that the
worked-out ex-Chief Justice should be appointed
[ over the head of that robust Radical, Judge
Higinbotham. The wily Premier did no thing except
smile his historic smile in approval.
Mr. Ballance, Minister of Lands in New
Zealand, recently spoke in favour of expropriating
lands in the hands of private holders, as it is re-
quired for agricultural purposes. He proposes
that the price to be paid shall be the property-tax
valuation plus 10 per cent., and that the Govern-
ment shall assist the purchasers by lending
them three-fourths of the purchase-money at 5
per cent, interval. It Is somewhat doubtful
whether this speech was not made solely for the
purpose of helping the property-tax along by in-
creasing the amount of valuation.
Lord Dunraven has let the cat out of the
bag. He says that Imperial Federation is ‘ 1 the
only way to obviate great increases on the British
army and navy.” Of course that means that the
colonies, when the union is accomplished, must
also keep up an army and navy, and, reversing
Biglow’s doctrine, learn that “ eppy-lants are the
best sign of a saint,” for in these days of the
golden future almost everybody in Australia will
be a Government butcher and have to stand about
in a uniform with his sword in one hand and a
1.0. U. for his salary in the other.
Vanity Fair expresses an earnest hope
that the New Hebrides question may soon be
settled lest some gore-hunting Australian should
run Britain into war over this miserable little
group. When Graham Berry read this item we
are prepared to bet that ho cocked his hat back at
an acuter angle and struck out with his stately
legs in the direction of Downing-street to issue
another solemn warning to the Colonial Secretary.
Even the flunkeys there are mad at the sight of
Graham now, and announce him simply by saying
“ ’Ere’s that blarsted Horsetraylian again.”
“ The invasion of England in 1890,” is the
title of a book recently published in London. It
is an imitation of the “ Battle of Dorking,” and
seems likely to arouse equal, if not greater, in-
terest. The author supposes that early in 1890
the Germans annex Holland almost without re-
sistance ; England then with her wonted voracity
sends expeditions away to annex the Dutch colo-
nies. Germany makes a demand for the restora-
tion of the colonies, which England refuses, and
thereupon Germany by skilful tactics transports
an army to Essex and in three weeks compels
England to sue for peace, which is granted on
conditldH that the colonies are to be restored and
a huge indemnity paid. It is significant that the
Jingo papers, reviewing this romance, assert that
it is only improbable in its over-estimation of
England’s power of self-defence.
Federation again. A Canadian gentle-
man has evolved from the depths of his brainq-
meter an overwhelming idea—the federation of the
Empire. He is trying to float “ The New British
Empire Company, Limited,” with a capital of
£2 000,000, for the purpose of buying up Palestine,
and when that country has been acquired he
wants to build there the capital of the federated
empire, thus sinking London into a second-rate
city. He asserts that Isaiah said Jerusalem was
to be the capital of the whole earth, but we have
looked up the passage, and we find that Isaiah
knew a great deal better than to promise to take
any shares.
The recent decisions in Sydney Supreme
Court in the case of Chisholm v. Cole will set a lot
of people searching against titles. Ihc land, 100
acres, of which Chisholm was possessor, had been
offered to a Mr. Klnghom about 50 years ago tor
lease at a rental of £lO per annum. He occupies
the land, but would sign no documents admittin
his tenancy, and paid no rent. He was a Crow
tenant-at-will, as all subsequent holders hav
been, and Cole, discovering this fact, selected 50
acres thereon. His title to this selection has ias
been confirmed by the Full Court, and as other
selections have been made by other men, out o:
tae same area, Mr. Chisholm stands a certair
show of being badly left.
One of the most gruesome sights under
heaven was the spectacle seen last Wednesday
morning at the ton of King-street, Sydney, wher
hve or six hundred unemployed men, most of them
wot to the skin, stood outside the gates of the Im-
migration Depot or under the dripping trees of the
Dark. One could enter heartily into the feelings
of the half -dozen poor devils, several of them
sti ong and decent-looking workmen, bronzed and
bearded, who took refuge from tho pitiless tropi
cal down-pour in the verandah of a coffin-
makers shop, and whiled away the time, wishing,
probably, that they were snugly stowed under-
ground in a good dry box.
“Ten Thousand Miles for Pick ami
Shovel” is the caption of an article in the Pali.
Mall Gazette descriptive of an interview with
Mr. John Norton, the Australian labour delegate.
The article gives some facts about the unemployed
in Australian capitals, and shows how industry in
N.S.W. is strangled by importation of foreign
goods. The following par. shows that, with Mr.
Norton’s assistance, the P.M.G. has got a good
grip on the question with which it deals
w oV,? de f Pf es ? nt conditions, to send skilled labour into
JN.b. W., tor instance, is at once an injustice inflicted on tho
artisan class of Australia and upon those of this country who
are induced to immigrate thither. The very ship that con-
veys the immigrant takes out the manufactured article which
he should be employed in manufacturing himself. Then if
by chance an opportunity of employment offers he will pro-
bably hnd himself driven out of the market by the Chinese
who m several important trades have supplanted the Euro-'
pean, as, for instance, in the joinery, cabinet-making, ancli
furniture trao.es, which the Chinese are able to monopolies-
owing to the long hours th;y work and the low wages they-
are willing to accept.
Lower down we road :
“ Tho Press of Sydney, Mr. Norton declares, is in no way
representative of public opinion—always excepting The
Bulletin and anew journal named the Globe, which, he
assures us, can safely be accepted as representative of work-.
mg-class feeling.”
When this little excerpt is read by the other
Sydney papers, their rage against Mr. Norton will
be immeasureable as the ocean.
The present N.S.W. Government
is regarded with suspicion by the Civil
servants, and will lose the service vote—
if only in consequence of the increase in
the official hours of work. Parkes may
after all run with Reid for East Sydney
when the general election comes on.
This relates to a time when mem-
bers of the N.S.W. Parliament were a
good deal more moral than they are now.
At that period, when antiquity was still
cutting its front tooth, there was a
legislator who used to “get tight,” and
his constituents called him to account
at a public meeting. The thirsty man
turned up, and, after a severe address
from the chairman, he rose and com-
menced : “ First of all," he said, “ I
must confess that I never charged any
man 70 per cent, for the loan of £6O ” [the
chairman turned red and took a glass of
water]. '* Secondly, I never was arrested
for cattle-duffing during the whole course
of my life ” [Two of the chief promoters
of the meeting left]. “ Thirdly, I must
admit I never was caught travelling round
with another man’s wife’ [four respectable
gentlemen skipped to see who was calling
them], “ Fourthly, I never salted a claim
or ptlt my name to a bogus mining pros-
pectus, or went insolvent” [here the door-
way was blocked by people going out]
“ Fifthly, I never sold sand for sugar
[l7 left to catch a tram], “ or gave Itcwt,
of coal for a ton” [l2 more started],
“or Here Mr. Kagmag rose, and
said that after the very satisfactory ex-
planation of their indefatigable member
he would move a vote of confidence, and
this being carried the remnant of the
meeting still assembled dispersed.
In Berlin, out of a population of
1,200,000, more than 150,000 people are
receiving public charity. In 1870, 10 per
cent, of the citizens lived in cellars, and
25 per cent, in crowded apartments and
things are now much worse than they
were then. Divorces equal 15 per cent,
of the marriages solemnised, and “many
of the working men favour community of
wives.” Out of 18,000 funerals last year,
30,000 were performed without any re-
ligious ceremony whatever —in many
cases probably because the mourners were
without the means to pay a clergyman.
Amid all this misery it is not surprising
to learn that Berlin is the head-quarters
of Socialism, and when the Emperor dies
many expect a convulsion. William is
now in his second childhood, and dodders
about unconscious of the sorrows around
him. He insists on being lifted out of
bed in the morning and dressed in his uni-
form-boot?, spurs, helmet, and all —and
then he sits at the window and crows
with babyish glee as his soldiers go past.
Now and then he wakes up and insists on
walking about as if he were a sportive
young chicken of only 70 or 75 years, and
he has epileptically fallen over everything
in the palace in the course of these at-
tempts. But he is monarch still, and
bosses all the suffering millions of Ger-
many, though his brain is so far gone
that he hardly knows Bismarck from a
bumble-bee.
The subject of divorce has cropped up
again, and the voice of the Australian Anglican
Synod is heard like the bray of a great ass in a
stupid land. The Rev. Mr. Langley, who appar-
ently knows all the women in the community,
says that 99 out of every 100 of them would vote
against the new measure, and Archdeacon King
assorts that “law could no more make divorce
right or legal than it could make murder legal.”
But somehow or other the law that was given to
Moses—we presume, by the bye, that these clerics
believe in Moses—made divorce not only legal but
very cheap as well for a good many centuries.
N.B. —There wore no archdeacons in these days
and no Anglican Church and no Synod.
The Sydney Echo chronicles the birth at
the Zoo of “a couple of puma pups,” and thus
shows conclusively that zoology is not its strong
point. The man who would allude to the progeny
of a big cat as “pups” is capable of writing up
the birth of a prince under the heading ‘ 1 another
royal kitten.”


V
\
*t)
%
c? -b
df
The Chinese Petition.
PLAYED-OUT WHITEMAN: “QUITE RIGHT, JOHN, IT’S FREETRADE THAT LETS YOU STAY HERE JUST NOW. WHEN PROTECTION REALLY COMES ALONG
YOU'LL BE CLEARED OUT."


O,K to**
r
fe
/ —• fafinHct-#
I L
v( i' r D
Xd.Atf *
Qjyr
,e
/
A
/
9
C - "If urouk
(dVi LeMe/“ m, ' , y m y *>*
kei , ')d^ /y/ ' f s, y al i ■ °" l y r y a f ra,r/
fiti/e too/>7c/ for CO c/~ y- r-
S
I
d
11
#77 7&' Aju^lT-
tZtuT- eaZZh^ t &c/Z £*7
) tea&yytTc y,
//l[j!s ydb*- > -tkaeip+it&r*-
/ky/777 /&*-
- x
■c*! ■ i*]
7 'his tesc fatfyecd
Frauds] fas
occupied an*
Saonadfy. /anf fync-'Jj
fcu/er Ccurr-' / tSfcucC
fa/c C&cc d /«5 Cut'Ffyvff
CO t)v /R/a>. COUtC" . __
C///? <s T/j/vti /y7fft t //v d
'2u/ man p,vines & : n ' u '
£ere y*u &s* Ss*<«*
7?.z a urn erf fo r
J/r Tfa/yFJ.
( 3 name Vajfue/y
<*'?***'**; „
y/ -v * ? #o /ft ore. <*oes ~p{Tant,
,r " e & o "'* natO To c/o a /#/- "
Av <?(W -c-
’*vsv
Mi
'.S’ sB*
Wanted. —A Chief Justice. Apply, with Testimonials, at Supreme Court, Sydney.


Society
Soon nothing will be left to remind us of
the Melbourne Cup but a few inquests on the
“ found drowneds,” and a case more or less of
“till-lifting.” The Unco guid made a more de-
termined stand than usual against the wicked
thing, with the result that the number on the
course was greater than ever. This year ar-
rangements on the course were as near perfection
as possible, the huge show being carried on with-
out a single hitch. The catering for the immense
mob was perfectly wonderful, and contrasted
strongly with the poor arrangements we have
grown accustomed to see at Rand wick. The lawn
was, as usual, densely crowded, and indeed it will
soon have to be enlarged, for though many thou-
sands of spectators kept their seats throughout
the day, still a sufficient number walked about to
make the operation a difficult one. The principal
feature of the Cup dresses this year was their
simplicity. Nearly every second woman one
met wore white lawn, trimmed and done
up in different ways. Amongst the most admired
were a white china silk, beautifully embroidered
with floss silk in wide rows round the bottom of
the full skirt, which was arranged in graceful
pleats ; the short pointed bodice, fitting to perfec-
tion, was without any ornamentation : a small
white silk and tulle bonnet and square white
parasol, with low and long ends of white ribbon.
A heavy white silk, with white pearl passemen-
terie, although rather hall-roomy, was exceedingly
handsome. A lovely frock was of the finest white
embroidery, the whole skirt being a mass of work,
and over this was worn a loose crimson velvet
jacket, and the bonnet, of crimson, dark blue and
gold embroidery, was most stylish and effective.
Some of the simple whites were very fetching, too,
especially as in many cases the wearer was young
and pretty, with a perfect figure. There is no
doubt about the figures of our Melbourne rivals
looking extremely well, but then we wonder how
much is due to the dressmaker ? A large
number of white dresses were improved by
the addition of black velvet bands and cuffs
and collars, and in many cases long wide
sashes were seen of every imaginable colour.
A perfectly plain white gros grain silk with wide
ruche round the hem was worn with good effect
by a young girl with a perfect figure. A hand-
some brown plush with embossed yellow leaves ;
an electric-blue with chains of twisted gold
thread for trimming ; a heliotrope satin with wide
black velvet bands ; and a cream surah beautifully
draped with spotted gauze and fine lace were all
very much admired. Lady Loch’s gown was ex-
tremely handsome, composed of rich plum-
coloured silk of two shades ; the under-skirt was
pale-yellow silk with stripes of the two shades of
velvet; a lovely bonnet to correspond. Lady
Carington looked charming in white silk which
was trimmed plentifully with crossed bands of
black velvet; a small white bonnet and white
lace parasol. The Governor’s box was profusely
decorated with beautiful flowers of every descrip-
tion.
* * *
“ The steam tramways of Sydney are a
hideous nuisance, made still more hideous by a
thickheaded, obstinate, and arrogant system of
administration.”—“Pendragon,” in the Referee.
* * *
A prominent Australian Queen’s Counsel,
who has an income of thousands a year, takes the
bun for exalted meanness. He sends out his office
boy daily for twopenn’orth of biscuits and a bottle
of lemonade, and when the thin youth returns
with the aerated wash and the provender he
counts the biscuits to see that none have been
eaten en route. Then he sounds the depths of the
bottle to make sure that he has got good measure,
and being satisfied on this point he absorbs the
festive fluid in short and well-advised sips to
make it last as long as possible.
* * *
A Victorian teacher who married one of
his big pupils has just got out of a rather queer
fix. The young lady’s parents were resolved she
should pass her final examination before her mar-
riage, while the ardent whipper of the rising
generation objected to this delay. At length a
compromise was effected, and the wedding came
off, but the event was to be kept secret until the
bride had left school. Under these circumstances
the teacher made stupendous efforts to crowd her
with dates and facts and historic murders in order
to finish her education as quickly as possible,
while the wife, who detested study, resisted
vigorously and learned nothing, • Then the peda-
gogue got mad and “ kept her in, and made her
stand in a corner, and invented a dozen new
punishments to meet the case, and at last when
she broke out into open rebellion and his dignity
was fast going to the dogs, he caned her in the
presence of the whole school. This was his last
despairing effort, however: it took him a fort-
night to heal the breach, and though the pair are
now living happily together, she learns grammar
and geography no more.
* * *
Mr. Salomons, Q.C., thinks of taking a
trip to China.
* * *
Overheard on the Summerhill station. He
(indicating an advertisement setting forth the
past glories of the Pink Terraces) : “ All that is
gone now.” She (very reflectively) : “ I suppose
they were rows of houses painted pink !” Verba-
tim,
** . *
Mr. P. W. Hutton, bookseller, of Tiraaru,
N.Z., is an innocent if ever there was one. When
giving evidence in the Hall poisoning case he said
the deceased had used language in his shop re-
specting the fair sex which he (witness) could not
repeat, because it would bo a contempt of court.
On being pressed and finally ordered by the Court
to repeat the words, the old fellow fairly gasped
for breath, and holding his open palm to his face
to divert the awful words from reaching the ears
of the ladies present , he whispered across te the
Judge : “He said, your Honor, he said, my lord—
I’m ashamed to repeat his words—but what he
said was this : * Damn the Ladies !’ ” Wicked,
wicked Hall, no wonder he was found guilty of
giving poison to his wife.
* * *
John Adams, of London, is the champion
Ch;eky man. He was standing against a lamp-
post with a “ pal ” when a lady offered the pair a
job. She wished them to kick up a row at the
wedding of an Italian named Geannazi and paid
sixpence on account, in addition to which she
furnished a shilling to be expended in purchasing
the decaying fruit of the unhealthy English hen
with which the bride and bridegroom were to be
pelted. Accordingly the pair and a crowd of
friends threw chaff, and deceased poultry, and
dogs whereof the vital spark had departed, and
fragments of a horse which had given up the
horse ghost, and other zoological remains, over the
happy couple : they also squashed the bride’s
bouquet and knocked her against the bridegroom,
while the bridegroom Was knocked against the
wall, and inside the church an assemblage
vaguely described as “ neighbours and friends,”
hissed and quoted Scripture. In fact, they all
did a good day’s work, and in the evening John
and his “ pal ” went to their lady employer to re-
ceive the balance of their wages. But that
deceitful female declined to pay, and then John
Adams went to the bridegroom, and asked him to
settle their little account for the rotten eggs, and
curses, and dead hens, and the hind leg of a
decaying horse which the y had thrown at him
and his wife. And the slimy Italian actually re-
fused to honour the bill.
* * *
Overheard in a tram-car. Well-dressed
item: “ Lady Carington’s father is an earl, isn’t
he ? What is he Earl of ?” Ditto ditto ditto, No.
2 : “ Why, my dear, he is the Earl of Harbord, of
course. Miss Harbord was Lady Carington’s
sister! ”
* * *
The S.M. Herald seems to have sent a
painfully solemn gusher to report the Melbourne
Cup meeting. He pays a hang-dog compliment to
the assemblage by saying that “just such a crowd
J/
#7
A REAL HARDSHIP.
SNOBKINS, of the “ Lands," (who is kept in till 5 p .m., to Jobkins of the Treasury who gets
away at 4 p.m.): “UNTIDY WHAT THE JOOCE DO I CARE IF I AM UNTIDY;
DON’T GET AWAY NOW TILL ALL THE MASHING IS OVER ON THE BLOCK.”
as this turned out to see Caesar'S booty in the forum,
and slew Riensi, and cheered the knightly Be
Conroy, or condemned Savonarola to an ignomi-
nious death," and then he starts the following
sermon, while the simple book-makers were play-
ing strange arithmetical larks around him, and
howling in his saintly ear “ Two to one, bar one,”
and the crowd of lost sinners were guzzling among
the fleshpots at the beer-tent :
“Among the exquisite colours of some tastefully and ele-
gantly dressed ladies you can detect the faneiful richness of
some Heine yaillards of a lawless court, there are golden-
haired Helens, and brows as thoughtful as that of Marcus
Aurelius. There are facos faithless, bitter, and beautiful.
Most of them, no doubt, were here last year, but since last
November stainless lives have been smirched with slander or
stained with shame, light hearts have grown heavy,
fair cheeks have been covered with care and
pearl-powdor, and words have been spoken that a life-
time cannot recall, links broken that eternity cannot reunite.
Sin and sorrow never again to he uprooted. But what do
they wear? Who are brave in beautiful goods to-day ? They
burn the old and raise the phoenix of the new. What do the
thousands care ? Some idol has fallen : some hero of the
hour gone down in clouds of dishonour."
We won’t go any further, for the smell of the
clergyman rises up like a burnt-offering in the
midst of the land. It isn’t a good lino to send a
curate to report a moke-race.
* *■ *
A bigamy case, in which a rather high-
toned schoolmaster figures, is expected to be be-
fore the courts shortly.
* * *
It was at a recent social gathering at
Roma (Q ). A gentleman strolling with his inna-
morata in the “moonlit garden” bethought him
that this was a tip-top opportunity to propose.
Being very much in love and a shade romantic he
went down, amorously, upon his knees, while the
lady— nunquam non parata —lent an (appar-
ently) shy ear to his avowal. But as the tender
tale unfolded, an ominous cracking sound was
heard to startle the stilly air. The lover halted,
I stammered, and wildly struggled to his feet —the
lady comprehended and fled. They had split
quite a long way at the knees!
* * *
The latest taradiddle about Minnie Palmer
is that since going upon the stage she has received
36 offers of marriage from eligible men—among
them being two real live lords. This is a free ad.
* * *
The Mayor .of Newcastle (N.S.W.) has
striick for the rights df mail, and it was about
time, for nlan has very few rights left. He was
riding in an oninibus when the driver admitted a
woman and a baby to the already crowded
vehicle, and when his Washup declined to be sat
upon, the jehu tried to get up a cheap reputation
for gallantry by ordering him out. The driver
was fined 3s. for over-zeal.
♦ # *
It is stated on most excellent authority
that a certain very popular and talented j oung
lady has made up her mind to marry the ohief
mate of the vessel in which she lately voyaged
from England The lucky man is the
son of an officer of high rank in H.M. Navy.
* * *
According to London Figaro, “ the
modern servant does not fulfil the obligations she
undertakes. She does not oven conform to the
standard of eye-service. If she tries to please
men, she is not a woman-pleaser. She may have
smiles for her master, hut she is saucy to her
mistress. She demands all sorts of liberties. She
is not satisfied with plain food. She objects to
get up in the morning before half-past seven. She
kicks at caps. She requires rest after lunch, and
objects to being disturbed while she is dressing
for dinner. She cannot abide being rebuked, and
will not suffer herself to be taught. When she
marries some miserable area-sneak, she longs
with all her heart for the comfortable home she
u-ed to have, the meals she was wont to enjoy,
the leisure she was permitted. The truth is that
in these days a good servant is worth her weight
in gold. The difficulty is to secure one,”
* * *
The naval and military ball given in Mel-
bourne Town Hall by the officers of the defence
forces on Friday, 2t)th ult., was a great success,
the verdict being that never before had such a
dance take place in Melbourne. Lord Carington
and Captain Purves were in the Sydney Lanceah’s
uniform. Lady Loch wore a beautiful shade of
shrimp-pink merveilleux. Lady Carington was
exquisite in pale-blue tulle and soft crepe ; her
diamonds, a tiara of large stones, and a triple
circlet around her neck, also bracelets, earrings,
and dress ornaments were magnificent.
* * *
Abigail (M.P.’s) gunpowder plot concert
in Sydiiey Protestant Hall was a thin and dreary
affair. .Somebody danced the Highland fling, as
an appropriate method of jumping on a man who
was slaughtered without any particular trial, and
another individual sang “Beach’s Welcome
Home;” What in the name of thunder our Wil-
liam has to do with Abigail’s one-horse concert in
A flat was not explained.
* ■».' a
The J übilee to be held next year in Lon-
don promises to be a ghastly fizzle. Nobody living
has had any experience of jubilees, and the only
precedent to go on is that of George 111. ; his
jubilee was celebrated by shoving the hoary block-
head in a madhouse and leaving him there, but
there seems to be a prejudice against this method
in high quarters, A London paper says :
“ The only thing that is settled is that there is to he a
copious distribution of honours, ami there Will he a large a<J-
dition to the list of baronets and knights. Prince Christian
and “ Beatrice” of Battenberg are to be made peers. Prince
Albert Victor will also be made a duke. I hope the country
will not be required to pay the fees for these Royal dignities,
as was the case when the Queen’s sons were given peerages.”
Poor Bat. To be called “ Prince Beatrice,” and
made a peer when he has hardly got a shirt with
which to maintain his dignity.
* * *
After a ghastly struggle, Mayor Young—•
Jubileb Young -has induced the city of
td pay his Queen’s Jubilee banqiiet bill in fdll. It
irichided £250 for illuminations, £lO7 ior glagses,
£271 for cutlery, £l3O for building pdntrids and
wine-cellars, £62 for hags, and a lot of other
items, making a grand total of £1679, and through
much humiliation the jubilee man—the same
Vandal who wanted the Fish River Caves up-
holstered and whitewashed—has got all this added
to the overdraft, and has docked a shilling a day
off the corporation labourers —by way, possibly,
of squaring the account. It will soon be needful,
however, to dock a shilling more, as a man has to be
paid £3 a week for polishing up the spoons, &c.
Aocording to Jubilee Young his mass of crockery
is to last for about 100 years, and thus obviate a
lot of expense, but by the end of the century it
will have cost £15,000 for polishing, which is
a slight offset to its value to the council. There is
also a cook at £3 or £4 a week, so it is evident that
Sydney civic entertainments in future are to exhi-
bit some features of elegance as compared with
the old style of “ham sandwiches and passing
round the black bottle.” The Boss of the Gorge
caved in, however, on the History of her Majesty
and paid for it himself, but he did not, as sug-
gested, tack a list of the falsified accounts of
the corporation and other swindles, to the title
page, and send it “ home.” He did not fancy,
perhaps, that ths Queen cared for that sort of
reading.
* * *
“ How did you like Essie Jenyns as
Rosalind?” asked one female theatre-goer of
another the day after the premiere of “As You
Like It.” “ Charming ! Delightful I You did not
stay to the end?” “No; had to catch our
boat.” “ Ah! you loat the best. She was
qtlite perfect ; baffle out fts a bride in s nth 4
lovely dress—white; of coursb.” “And Her dct-
ihg ? ” “I tell yoil site looked faultless. What
you lost to be sure ! A perfectly new dress; not
a crease in it: ” The moral is obvious.
* * *
A walking dress for the Boulevards of a
lady of great wealth is creating a sensation in
Paris. It is composed of cream-coloured velvet
—over it, a loose robe of new lace; into which
diamonds are wovfih. The whole cOstuihe gliitini
with ten thousand rays of light. What a rebuke
for poverty!
* * *
Barrister (to timid young woman): “ Have
you ever appeared as a witness in a suit before?”
Young woman (blushing): “ Y-yes, sir, of course.”
Barrister : “ Please state to the jury what suit it
Was.” Young woman (with more confidence): “It
was a nun’s veiling* shirred down the front and
trimmed With a lovbly blue. With hat tp tnatch —!'
Judge (rapping violently’) i “ Order in tile Court i”
* # *
Mrs. Busby gave a very pleasant dance on
Tuesday evening, the 3rd, at her residence, Red-
leaf, Rose Bay. The garden and lawn were a
delightful resort after the heat of the ball-room,
which was too crowded to allow dancing to be
thoroughly enjoyed.
*■. * *
it jAteticfilcielighii Seizes somd pel-sons wheii
they hear that “ the colonies are becoming so
much better known at home than they used to be.”
Possibly the attention given to us is a little pre-
mature or possibly reports are inaccurate. Still
it is good for us to know that we are not escaping
notice from our British betters. The following
little item shows how much the keen eye of
England is upon us :
“ I hav just had a long letter from Gertrude, out in Sidney.
The great event of the day out there is the Mayor's jubilee
fancy ball. The fashionable hairdresser, who rejoices in the
appropriate name of Wigsell, has hired out 200 wigs, at ttvb
guineas apiece, What a Windfall for Wigftell ! The stotit
lady of a Sydney butchsr, despite her adipose tidsue and fief
sixty summers, went as Mary, Queen of Scots, A baker's
wife was retired as Katherine of Ard.gon Bile
unconseipUs (J* iv Hd )h f %He. j-’epi e sented, and was suspected of
calling her prototype Catherine of Tar-agon at least once
during the evening. The word wai more familiar to her than
the name of the Spanish province. Gertrude tells me, too,
that the receptions at Government House are regarded as
creamy jokes. Two servants and S“veral barmaids rave been
there. The guests on one occasion made such a raid upon
the refreshments, that late comers found bare tables, and
raged accordingly. Society in Sydney must be a curious
omnium-gatherum.
Now we certainly do not k»uw who Gertrude is,
but she is undoubtedly valuable to the “ 014
Country ” as a popular educators
* *
At 4 CerUi.il hoiisd, ndfc ixldny niiles ffdni
Double Bdy, a dinner party was given last week.
The occasion was to celebrate the winning of the
Melbourne Cup, by a popular favourite. Emblems
indicative of the noble steed were placed on the
table ; champagne was brought from the cellar in
dray-loads, and a glorious night was anticipated.
The proud hostess waited for the guests, and the
“ wire ” that was to proclaim the victory. The
former came,and so did a telegram—bringing with
it gloom.
* * *
In “ Humming Bee’s ” report of the Mel-
bourne Cup, we find among the description of the
dresses and last on the list the following little
item “ One Sydney lady wore a lovely rich
brocade combined with salmon-pink satin covered
with silk guipure.” We fancy we know the touch
of that vanished hand, but others not so discern-
ing may speculate as to who this modest Sydney
1 ady can be.
* * *
The Sydney Club has put up its shutters,
and retired from active business. Circumstances
over which, See., were too many for it. However,
according to all accounts, it is likely to be
“ ph«enixed.”
* * *
In Sydney they don’t call her the old
man’s darling.” The Hon, Mr. ’ s “ward”
sounds ever so much better.
* * ♦
This specimen of haughty slush is from the
Sydney Evening News :
‘‘For various reasons, the people of the colonies have
little knowledge of the real ways and manners of the English
aristocracy. The notions of the average colonist with regard
to an English ‘Lord’ are peculiar and incorrect. The
colonist has heard chiefly, if not only, of the doings of the
black sheep of the class. Perhaps he has come across con-
damnations of the House of as an assemblage of
bigoted incapables, and has hence formed a conclusion un-
favourable to the intellectual power of the members of the
Second Estate. In our columns of to-morrow will eora-
mence a story which has for its foundation incidents that
are well authenticated by experience in London society of
the most exclusive kind. ‘ The Barren Title’ is the history of
a nobleman’s struggles with the world, and a most interesting
reoountal of tfie behavior of an English aristocrat in unex
ected circumstances.”
We have not had time to study the “ Barren
Title," but we presume the “unexpected oircum-


stances” arose when the husband came home and
found the peer hidden in the wardrobe. We will
endeavour to have a glance at Alfred’s tale of the
** nobleman s struggles,” and the “ most interest-
ing recountal” of his behaviour whde being
Jsicked.
* * *
Two guineas is being offered by the T. and
C. Journal for the most appropriate name for
New South Wales. Alfred appears to have grown
dissatisfied with the early christening, and wants
the baptismal ceremony performed afresh. The
name, says our distinguished literary friend, is
not appropriate. It is strange how great minds
frequently arrive at the same conclusion. Just
66 years ago, one Charles Lamb was struck with
that same idea; but instead of planking £2 2s. for an
outside suggestion, ho went into the business him-
self. In a little review on the first volume of
poems ever published in Australia, the gifted
“ Klia ” wonders whether the author is a friend of
his own, who long previously went to “ ad-
minister tedious justice in inauspicious unliterary
Thiefland,” adding “ an elegant periphrasis for
the Bay.” By the way, Elia accuses the writer of
literary thefts, and adds ; “The author must be
some unfortunate wight sent on his travels for
plagiarisms of a more serious complexion.”
* * *
They say that at Spofforth’s wedding the
bridesmaids nearly came to scratches over best
man Bonnor. On an interesting occasion like
that such a fine figure of a man as gigantic George
would be certain to set the little spinster hearts a
fluttering. His every point had its special clique
of admirers, and on the subiect of his understand-
ings the girls were unanimous. They called them
“ loves of legs.”
*■ * «
A bright and amorous youtli was James
Gillespie, of Christchurch (N.Z.). At the mature
age of 20 he concluded that it was necessary that
he should marry. He had secured the girl indis-
pensable to such a ceremony, and the trilling cir-
cumstance that ho had no money did not debar
him from duly investing the town with the glow-
ing hue of the setting sun. On the night before
the day fixed for the affair he invited his friends
to a ball in honour of his departure from the
realms of bachelordom, and drove gaily down with
his fiancee to the Town Hall to meet his guests.
Some little difficulty arose through the mercenary
conduct of the cabman, who wanted his fare, but
ultimately accepted a promise instead. Supper
was provided by a confectioner named Cowley,
who only received the order at 10 p.m., and was
content to wait till next morning for his money.
He is still waiting. Next morning the cabby
called for his coin, but the bridegroom persuaded
him to earn more wealth (in promises) by driving
the wedding-party in search of a parson,
and when that official was found the
bridegroom, to pay the usual fee, borrowed £1 los.
from cabby, directing the latter to call at an office
in the city, which Gillespie asserted his father
owned, for payment. But the whole scheme up-
ended itself. The parson would not perform the
ceremony because both parties were under age ;
the alleged father coul •! not be found, and the
cabby’s fare was equally undiscoverable; Mr.
Cowled grew riled that Gillespie should have a
“ bully ” old time at his expense ; and a flock of
other creditors raised their little voices. Then a
poftcenym, a warrant, and a beak, edged them-
selves in between Gillespie and his bride-elect,
and love’s young dream was “bust ” into as
many pieces as a Cabinet Minister’s conscience. At
latest dates the enterprising bridegroom was re-
manded for enquiry as to his character, while the
bride was badly mashed on “ another gentleman.”
* * *
The Marquis and Marchioness of Stafford
and Lord Tarbet are passengers on board R.M.S.
Shannon, bound for Sydney. They, of course, are
bo be guests at Government House.
* * *
The Argus is trying to “ queer the pitch ”
of Shrewsbury’s eleven with some characteristic
drivel. That horgan of the hupper suckles says
that “on the question of the greater popularity
of a good mixed team, as compared with the
eleven just arrir'ed in Australia, there can be
little room for difference of opinion.” Bosh!
What the dickens decs the public care about any
artificial distinction between amateur and profes-
sional 1 The crowd which will draw best in Aus-
tralia is the one which is least likely to get beaten.
At the present time it would be impossible to pick
any English team containing nine amateurs that
would stand a 6 to I show with our present visi-
tors. The Argus evidently considers that the
second-rate cricket of a lord or an honorable is
more “ popular ” than the first-class performance
of a professional. We shall soon have it suggest-
ing that the Melbourne Cup ought to be made a
gentleman riders’ race.
* * *
According to English letters, old John
Tait is in the best of health and spirits, and his
well-known kindly smile has made many an enter-
tainment given in honour of the colonists go all the
more merrily. •
* ♦
H.M.S. Thalia left Sydney on the 4th
inst. with the time-expired crews of the Opal and
Raven. The vessel was surrounded with boats,
and the cheering as she left her moorings was im-
mense. The time-honoured custom of throwing a
live cock >;om her masthead was kept up, to the
satisfaction of thecrewand the astonishment of the
cock. The bird was picked up alive and wet by the
boats of H.M.S. Rapid, on board of which vessel
it will be kept as long as possible. Friends of the
departing officers accompanied the Thalia to the
Heads in launches and yachts, and only returned
when the ladies on board held out visible signals
of distress.
* * *
The proverbial beauty of the rosy-cheeked
daughters of Tasmania failed to flutter the well-
seasoned heart of Sir George Strachan. Unmar-
ried he came five years ago. Unmarried ho de-
parted for England by last week’s P. and O.
steamer. His very last bit of colonial experience
was backing Malua for the Cup.
* * *
Mrs. Andrew Garran, Strathmore, Glebe
Point, has issued cards for an evening party on
13th inst,
* * *
Rumour says that the Caringtons’ visit to
Melbourne didn’t turn out to be a success at all, at
all. At Flemington his lordship and his
lady strolled about together and kept them-
selves to themselves pretty considerably. The
gubernatorial crowd appeared to bore the Baron be-
yond measure. Truth to tell, the four Excellen-
cies were an ill-assorted quartette. Par ex-~::,ple,
what can there be in common between s h men
as Bertie’s ex-boon companion and the L„.adrum
composer of “Unfurl the FI';?” Nothing. Yet
Carington and Robinson d i .ed at the Fame table
and herded together in tkp same privr* e boxes, at
theatres and races, for a full week, U, regarded
C. as a “hah-hah” swell, destitute of soul. C.
was all the while in a mortal funk lest R. might
want to rattle off his newest composition on the
pianoforte.
♦ *
The once festive Mr. Hector Wilson, of
Woodlands station, Victoria, has, it seems,
espoused Madame Eugenie Legrand, who in
America lately got a divorce from her husband,
Mr. Kyrle (Harold Dominic) Bellew, the actor, to
whom she was married many years ago in Mel-
bourne.
* * * *
The Red Gauntlet, the line yacht brought
to Sydney by the rich but ill-fated Mr. Balfour,
and sold after the latter’s death to a Melbourne
gentleman, was formerly owned by Mr. Langtry,
who years ago took the “ Jersey Lily” away in it
for their honeymoon.
* * *
The very latest from “ Hingerland” :—ln ban-
queting hall, garden party, or ball, “ Burdett”
still holds his sway. But he can’t impress the
English noblesse. Because he ain’t built that way.
* * *
We observe an announcement of the
“ marriage of Miss Service, daughter of Hon.
James Service, ex-Prcmier of Victoria, with Mr.
Frederick Thoneman, of Brighton-road, son of
the late Mr. Emil Thoneman, Consul for Japan in
THE LATE SIR JAMES MARTIN, CHIEF JUSTICE OF N.S.W.
(Reproduced from the SYDNEY QUARTERLY MAGAZINE.)
Melbourne.” That’s the sassiety way of working
the thing up. From a business point of view, the
daughter of Mr. James Service (of Service and
Co., wine, spirit, and grocery dealers), married
the son of Mr. Emil Thoneman (of Lange and
Thoneman, also wine, spirit, and grocery dealers).
* * *
The cost of Lady Carington’s Oaks day
costume must have been well covered by a £5
note. Cool and “natty,” it pointed a moral and
adorned a tale for many suffering husbands of ex-
pensive wives. One after another they paraded
thair heavily brocaded “ old women ” in front of
the Governor’s box, and said : “ Now, why can’t
you dress like Lady C. ? That’s my notion of
style, that is.”
4 OCLOCK
TEA
Miss Pedley has issued cards for an “At Home” in Sydney
Y.M.O.A. Hall.
Mrs. Henry White's dance at Calingra, Ocean-street,
Woollahra, on Thursday evening, the 4th, was a great
success.
Mrs. Edward Wrench gave a large dinner party at her
residence, Caradou, Woollahra, on Thursday evening the
4th inst.
Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Wise gave a small and pleasant
dinner party at their residence, Macleay-street, Potts Point,
on Thursday evening, 4th inst.
Mrs. Frances Paul, of North Shore, Sydney, is to receive
the bronze medal of the Royal Society of Australia for her
gallantrydn saving a lady from drowning.
The last of the Monaro winter dances was held on the 3rd
inst. at Cooma. Contrary to the usual rule concerning “last
of the season ” dances, the dresses were in most cases new
and brilliant.
A return ball was given to Mr. A, P. West by his pupils on
3rd inst. Some 60 couples were present. Music by Summers,
catering by Messrs. Callaghan. Many ladies were most
tastefully dressed.
Mr. and Mrs. -idem of Addison Road, Petersham, gave
a dance at their residence on Wednesday, 3rd inst.; between
40 and 59 were present. Most of the young ladies wore
cream and were pretty
“ Best on record ” was the verdict passed on the bachelors'
ball at Walcha. Dancing was kept up for eight solid hours.
We don’t wish to discount the ball by remembering that it
was only the best on record at Walcha.
A double engagement at Potts Point is announced, that of
Miss Charlotte Maccabe, eldestda >ghter of Mr. F. P. Macoabe,
to Mr. Donald MTntyre. The younger sister of the above-
named lady to Dr. Jenkins, of Orielton, Woollahra.
Ploi" viid fancy-dress ball in preparation at Nithsdale for
the 3rd Deo, This shows how fond Australians are of
dancing. The man who seeks for pleasure in dancing in
December would look for the beauty of holiness in a bar-
room at Bourke.
Forbes (N.S.W.) Fiowor Show proves that the cultivation
of the beautiful is extending in that district. The display
would have been a credit to any of Sydney’s suburbs, and
the attendance was immense. The customary Sunday-
school landed the resulting oof.
The return ball given by the benedicts of Sunny Corner
(NS.W.)tothe bachelors of that locality is described as a
success of the most colossal order. It should have been so,
for the hosts on this occasion were fifteen months in return
flutterln ( j“ne, I “r t ’ the bachelors havin » ha<l little
The Sydney Herald only allows the Hon Rupert
Oarmgton one _ r ’ to his surname, yet will persist in snell-
wlaine witil tbe double consonant Why
- have no doubt someone will explain that
Caungton and Carrington are two utterly different words.
The Village Festival at Neutral Bay (N.S.W ), on the 13th
Moor Th‘ POSS6BS some . ne , w and peculiar
tim t T‘‘'As I Vnn r T°^ a^f 1 n .‘“eludes a pastoral representa-
tiqn or As You Like It, in which Mr, Alfred Damnier
Miss Lily Dampier, and Mr. George Labertouohe will show ’
The opening of the season of the “Redmyre Union Recrea-
2oTand 0 300 d np o o°mp P aCB ° n Sah ’ rday ' J the Btb ult. Between
and 300 people were present, and some good games of
tennis were played. During the afternoon tea with dainty
tvf erVed tL y the lady members of the club. Unfor-
innately the weather was anything but pleasant. The heat
n aS p 01 ? ly i relle ' r a teen >i«g shower, which caused a
general stampede to the verandahs. Mrs. Frazer wore a
brown canvas costume, small black lace mantle, brown
ponl lle nnU lfc ?,.^ r h n - Ze be iTf es - M' BB . Frazer looked deliciously
cool and fiesh in white embroidered muslin, with sin i 1
bonnet. Pink was pretty plentiful, also white. The “Fisk
Jubilee singers were present as guests, and the hand of the
Volunteer 2nd Regiment Infantry played on the lawn.
fen* Julius Yon Haast, wlio lias liggh so
greatly honored of late by Queen Victoria, is
Curator of the Museum at Christchurch, N,Z.,
and has an office close to the local Art Gallery.’
One day several ladies were inspecting the nude
figures of the ancient gods and goddesses around
and, forgetful of the fact that even Museum walls
have ears, one of the fair critics (a shapely Dune-
din belle) observed: “Well, now, I don’t see that
there was anything so particularly divine about
Venus, after all. Look at her waist! A Yhy it’s a
washerwoman’s. And her foot is a perfect hoof.
I’m quite sure some of us have figures every bit
as perfect as that —at least I know I have, for
one.” Just then a hoarse guttural noise was
heard in the adioining apartment, and someone
chuckled aloud : “Yell, now, I doan beleef von
vordt of dot, my tearmadame—not von vordt .’
Whereupon the ladies left.
“ Who was she?” is the conundrum
posted over a recent tale in the Sydney Globe
We don’t know, but if the question refers to th
authoress of the romance we suspect that she wa
a goat.
T wo hundred thousand laws have been jmssec
in France since the revolution, but the whole lo ,
put together are not enough to keep the countr
from owing £1,000,000,000 and not having th
slightest idea how to pay any of it.
The Warwick (Q.) School of Arts com
mittee has decided, by five votes to four, to eeas
subscribing to The Bulletin and London Truth
The Bulletin is delighted to find itself ostracise!
in such good company. Further, the commercia
benefit derived by the proprietors a of newspape
through its expulsion from a place where it is
read “on the cheap ” is too obvious to call for
comment.
The old fiddle-headed dynamite yarn is
now going round at Lismoro, N.S.AY. The Rev.
Mr. Currey—curry is a good orange colour, by the
way—says two letters were delivered at his
house addressed to the “ escaped” collection plate
female, which proved to contain powder ant
dynamite. We presume the quantity which coulc
travel in a letter must have been meant for a
sample—of curry powder, perhaps. Some othoi
epistles were received in which the writer threat-
ened to burn down Mr. Currcy’s house, but we
guess it’s insured.
The following advertisement is from the
Guardian, an English paper :
.“ A curate of 30 years will be grateful for clothing. Has
six girls, ages from live to twenty: four boys from eight to
eighteen, destitute of clothes and education.”
The English curate—poor devil—is about the
only man who can afford to obey the Scriptural
injunction and “ take no thought for the morrow.”
With a family of ten and a miserable pittance of
18s. a week or thereabouts, ho might as well take
thought for some date in the far-off period com-
monly designated B.C. The result would be
exactly the same.
Richard Howard, a shining light of the
Melbourne “ Try Excelsior Class,” has written a
splendid ballad warning his young friends against
pitch-and-toss. He says :
“ And now, my lads, I really hope
You all will take my advice,
Just stop that game of pitch-and-toss
And you’ll escape a terrible vice.
Now, I know that many of you lads
To my advice will say, “I am sure,”
But you can’t deny, ’though you've played for years,
You are still very poor.
As a moral teacher, alas, we are sorry to find that
the whispered Richard is no better than the rest of
’em. Since wooing the Muse he has been sentenced
to three months as a constant associate of thieves
and ladies of indifferent repute. There is a
Nemesis that waits on rhyme like that.
THIS
WICKED
WORLD
Separation Soap” is advertised Ijy a
North Queensland manufacturer A Cooktown
journal has published a list of nearly a hundred
victims of the New Guinea niggers London
Like satirically reviews the prospectus of the
Etheridge Gold Field Mining Company.”
Snake-skin is said to be susceptible of a high de-
gree of finish, and is coming into use for book-
binding. There will be another fulfilment of
prophecy when the seed of the woman bruises the
head of the serpent in order to make him up into
Bibles In a N.Q. police-court, two solicitors
differed on some point of law, and one laid £o to
£1 that his version was correct. The J. It, who
was made stakeholder, promptly confiscated the
coin by lining one of the Devil’s disciples £5 and
the other .VI for contempt of Court A South
Melbourne idiot basked himself to drink a bottle
of brandy. He put away the pizon and immedi-
ately “ dropped speechless on the floor.” But
worse remains behind. They applied a stomach
pump and the beast “ recovered.” He has since
died.
j * *
The present Lord Ellenborough, according
to a London paper, began to marry before he was
20 and has done it four times. He is not identi-
fied with anything in particular, except a beauti-
ful suit of dress clothes.” The son of a clergy-
man was delivering a valedictory when, in pulling
out his haudkefehief, he brought to light a play-
ing card. Hello ! he exclaimed, “ I’ve got on my
fathers coat.” On apiece of waste land near
I frames embankment, London, 250 persons were
lately discovered at midnight sleeping as best they
could on this the only part of the accessible world
that they could oven for one night quietly occupy.
What the sufferings of half-starved, badly-clothed
men must be in such a climate none but them-
selves can know. Several had tried to wrap their
limbs in old newspapers, and one man was using
the remnant of a circus-poster as a coverlet. Even
this poor lodging is now to be denied them, the
police having decided to hunt them away—to the
near rh ei, and death, perhaps... Cockroach-tourn-
aments cause much excitement in the Chinese
quarter at San Francisco. One Quong, a cockroach
trainer, is accused of having scooped the pool
at a recent meeting by drugging some of
the fighters. As a national pastime? cockroach-
lighting is admirably suited for Chinamen
Her Majesty has elected to bear the entire cost of
the forthcoming domestic drama at Windsor
Castle ; the elaborate layette, heavy physicians
fees, and nurses’ wages, as well as a thousand and
one petty expenses, all being provided by the
august lady who grows prouder every fresh time
she is made a grandmother Duck eggs which
had been preserved for 10 years were eaten at an
American wedding l breakfast. Elections must be
scarce in that country At Worcester (Eng.),
an obstinate jury was brought to reason two
months ago by placing a dish of beefsteak and
onions outside the door. The odour penetrated
the room, and the hungry though conscientious
“good men and true” caved in, reported the
prisoner Guilty, and made off in search oi
su PP er An American girl at Gastein recently
stopped Bismarck on the street and asked him for
a button from his coat, as a souvenir. The economi-
cal Chancellor replied that he had just enough but-
tons to hold his clothes together, and the diffident
Republican damsel had to be content with the
knowledge that she had talked with the autocrat...
A pair of guns have just been specially made by a
London firm for Prince Henry of Battenberg. Up
to the time the mail left, Henry had not succeeded
in shooting a single gamekeeper At Birming-
ham, Noakes, Salvation Army Captain, was
charged with deserting his wife and family.
When arrested he said he had been serving the
Lord, and while he was doing that somebody else
must look after his wife and children, as he had
no time for such matters. One month’s gaol
Reynolds’ Newspaper expresses some liking for
Prince Alexander because “he, at least, has tried
to gain his own living,” unlike Henry v. ho njarried
a girl with a fortune, and thinks that Alec, may
possibly be able to earn £1 a week in England if
he is industrious It is asserted that Germany
is going to make a stupendous effort and get
together 5,617,000 fighting men for her
arm y Among English working men three-
fifths are now out of employment More Im-
perial grab. An expedition is proceeding from
Mandalay to seize the Burmese ruby mines and
otherwise to prig in the name of Her Most
Gracious Majesty Henry George was defeated
for the position of Mayor of New York, though
he obtained 67,000 votes.
Mr. J. J. Lough, the Sydney architect
who disappeared so mysteriously the other night
from the s.s. Namoi, suffered from heart-disease
and so may have fainted and fallen overboard.
■lt was “Sacrament Sawbath ” in the
little Highland Kirk, and as the worshippers were
proceeding in solemn file M'ltchie trod heavily on
M Scratches sore heel. And with a fierce glare
the latter hissed out: “If [ wasna gangin’ to
meet the Lord, I d gie ye a dawb in the mooth.”
Two members of the N.S.W. Assembly
had an awkward experience between Kiama and
Jamberoo the other day. Their buggy o ver«e(
and one of the members found himself with the
wreck of his gaudy chariot piled on top of
him His frend, a well-known surgeon
calmly proceeded to lake the bearings of
the scene, and after a little consideration relived
to drag the \itt m out in a north-north-west direc-
tion, when he was aroused by a wail V “Oh
get me out ; my leg’s broken, I know it is I f ce l
the blood running down !” 1 hen the ’ medico
made a jump, and hauled him from be
neath the rums, when (ho log proved to ho
quite sound, and the “blood” nothing but the
juice of a squashed orange which the legislator
had happened 1 o hare in his pocket. The surgeon
now thinks of writing a paper on mind and matter


HOW IT HAPPENED.
“I can never dine at home now,” said young
Mr. Parisgreen to a bachelor friend as he stepped
into a restaurant, “and I tell you this feeding-
outside business is keeping me mighty poor.”
“And why not! You have a good cook; your
wife is an excellent housekeeper. I never got a
better dinner in my life than the time I sat down
at your hospitable table,” remarked the friend in
much wonderment. “I will tell you,” said the
exile, sadly. “About a week ago, in a moment
of mental aberration, T kissed the domestic who
carries the dishes to and from my hospitable table,
a? you are ple -.sed to term it.” “ Pooh, pooh, a
trivial occurrence,” said the friend, warmly; “a
very pretty girl, as I remember. I would have
kissed her myself, sir, without hesitation, had the
opportunity ottered.” “ No doubt, no doubt,” re-
plied the benedict, mournfully; “but then you
don’t live in the house, you know. Now, ever
since I kissed that young person she labours under
the delusion that she owns me. When she brings
in the soup tureen she loans lovingly against the
chair and mashes mo in the most reckless and
positive manner. When she hands me the carvers
she endeavours to squeeze my hand, and she
pauses at the door leading into the kitchen to
thrill me with a parting glance of unutterable
affection. And all this time, while I am making
a pretext of enjoying my dinner, the cold perspira-
tion is running down my back, for my wife has an
eye like a hawk for this sort of phenomena, and I
don’t know the moment she will drop on it and
denounce me. No, no; home and I must be
strangers until that young female is discharged,”
and the victim of a momentary folly ate his soup
in intense and affecting melancholy, and then ad-
journed to find consolation before the mirror,
viewing his perfect-fitting, stylish Scotch tweed
suit bought for £3 3s. from Summerfield and Com-
pany, the well-known Merchant Tailors, 235 and
237 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Certainly one of the most successful City Hotels, in respect
of first-class Wines, Spirits, &c., and with regard to Lun-
cheon, is Han ney’ 3 Great Northern Hotel, Charlotte-place.
A first-class Luncheon is provided from 12 to 3, which is
patronised by the commercial men in this part of the city.
Just make one call, and we are sure you will be satisfied.*
A Coincidence worth Noting. —On referring
to the Army Medical Reports, it will be found
that the principal miasmatic diseases prevailing in
Victoria are identical with those which prevail in
India, where Freeman’s Chlorodyne was introduced
in 18 50. Used throughout the whole of the
Indian Empire with unexampled success since that
period in the treatment and cure of Fever, Rheu-
matism, Sore Throat, Dysentery, Diarrhoea, Con-
tinued Fever and many other Diseases, it is easy
to understand why the Colonists of Victoria en-
tertain such a highly favourable opinion of it, and
regard Freeman’s Chlorodyne as the most valuable
household remedy extant for the treatment of the
above indigenous maladies. In India 150 agencies
are established. Insist upon having “ Freeman’s ”
only. 'I rade mark, an Elephant.—obtainable from
all chemists and storekeepers.
Mittchell’s old established and reliable original
reform chemist shop, 141 King-street, was recently
purchased by A. A. Rigney, of Bega, who will
conduct both establishments on the standard prin-
ciples for which he is well known.
Premier ball-room decorators of New South Wales. Sale
and Dare, decorators. Bail and banquet ro. ms tastefully
decorated with flag and floral decorations, 60i Hunter-street
Sydney. *
SOLID COMFORT,
Everyone likes to take solid comfort and it may be enjoyed
by everyone who keei s Dr. Bell's Bitters .in the hous; and
takes a few doses at the first symptoms of an attack of
malaria, rheumatism, biliousness, jaundice or any affection
of the l.ver, kidneys or bowels. It. is a purely vegitable com-
pound of roots, leaves and berries known to have special
value in kidney troubles. Added to these are remedies act-
ing directly oo the liv. r and bowels. It removes the cause
of disease and fortifies the system against new attacks.
GOLD MEDALS.
To refute the audacious statements made by
other brewers of American Lager Beer, who
advertise that they have taken first honors at
various world exhibitions, the Anheuser Busch
Brewing Association of St. Louis, who alone took
flrvt honors at Philadelphia, Paris, Amsterdam,
&c., &c., have sent their gold medals and diplomas
for inspection by the Australian public. They
are now on view at onr office, 111 Pibt-street.
BUTCHER, FEHON and CO.,
Sole Agents for St. Louis Lager Beer.
Wine ! —Reliable Old Australian Wines, selected vintages,
for invalids, families, and connoisseurs. Only Sold by
Hockings, 143 Pitt-street.
W. J
HOLLOWAY
and
MISS ESSIE JENYNS,
supported by their especially selected Company,
in
“ A Ring of Iron,” “ A Mad Marriage,” “ The
Broken Idol,” “Hamlet,” “Romeo and Juliet,”
‘ Much Ado About Nothing,” “ As You Like It,”
&c., &c.
OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY, SEPTEMBER 11.
“ A RING OF IRON.”
TO WINEGROWERS AND OTHERS.
G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE CASKS, 250 to 100 gallons ;
also,
Rum, Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS.
Hogsheads, Quarter-casks, Spirit Keg l !, from 2
gallons and upwards.
COOPERAGE.
387 KENT STREET, and 171 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market streets.
JYNCH FAMILY BELLRINGERS
_J (Organised, 1867.)
Manager Mr. Harry Lynch.
To-night (Thursday), Nov. 11-rrOddfellows Hall,
Newtown.
To-morrow (Friday), Nov. [l2—Oddfellows Hall,
Kogarah.
Next week at Petersham, Botany, &c.
JAMES SMITH \
H. E. BARNES /
Advance
Agents.
GENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES REPAIRED AND
CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET
Near Market-street.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF SPRING GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prices.
“ Algernon, love, the doctor says that I
absolutely require a little change. I was forced,
to tell him that you were always just run out of
it, whenever I asked you for any, and that it was
week s since you had given me a shilling. Then h
said I must need a great deal of change. Ain’t
you ashamed now ? ” But he was’nt. Not one
bit.
The prettiest girl in Sydney is named
Letter, We never before yearned to be a lerter
press.
“ How does the new girl strike you ? ’
asked a Sydney man at dinner lately. “She
hasn’t struck me yet, ’ answered his wife, meekly,
“ But she has done almost everything else.”
“1 don’t know about your religious
novels,” said the Rev. Jofferis, “ the Bible’s good
enough for me.” “Yes,” replied Mr. Joseph
Symes, “ but are you good enough for the Bible 1”
“Elgin National Watch Company, Chicago.
“Dear Sir,—This company has purchased and
put in the hands of its engineers eighty (80) Elgin
Watches, which have given excellent satisfaction
and proved to be very reliable timekeepers. In
addition to these, quite a number of Elgin
Watches have been purchased by officers and em-
ployees of this company, all of whom have been
well pleased with the efficiency and regularity of
the watches manufactured by the Elgin National
Watch Co.—Respect fully,
“ EDWARD H. WILLIAMS, M.D.
“ General Superintendent,
“ Pennsylvania R.R. Co.”
In accordance with our promise we give a priced
list of Elgin Watches this week. We wish to re-
mark, in the first place, that there is not a cheap-
jack Watch among them. The Elgin Co.’s factory
covers acres of ground, and cost hundreds of thou-
sands of pounds to establish the place with its
costly plant. It would a’ 1 , pay to create an estab-
lishment of this description to turn out bogus
articles. The name of the Elgin Company is on
every one of the million watches it has turned
out, a direct guarantee and responsibility. If the
Watches are good, that advertisement secures a
constantly growing demand. Unsatisfactory
Watches thus spread abroad would have told their
own story, and lefc the Company with their fac-
tory and plant idle on their hands—a dead loss of
a million sterling.
KSTEach Watch is an advertising agent for the
Company. A genuine good arfcle at a reasonable
price.
Observe that we sell no silvercased Watch at a
less figure than Three / omids. We can’t do it.
The movement, commonly called the works, is too
good to permit of it. If we were dealing in
Brummagem Watches, made in the WeA of
England, and sold to any de iler who chose to clap
his name on them, we could sell a sort of thing for
half the money, and the biggest part of the first
cost would 1 c the silver of the case.
Remember, each and every Watch manufac-
tured by the Elgin Watch Co. is a Patent Silver,
with Compensating Balance. Wcsellnohorzontal
or other inferior movementi.
If Throe Pounds is more than you can afford,
we meet you by reducing the price of the case— we
can t and wen t ;vll you a debased movement.
The Elgin Company docs not make such things,
Thua, then, our cheapest line, and wo guarantee
it as good as any English Lever you can get any-
where for seven guineas, is :
Gentleman’s, Elgin Patent Silver Key-
winder with 7 jewel?, patent
safety pini m, compemal ing balance
in patent dust-band ca.e of ore-
silver, chrystal-pla f e open face £2 0 0
Gentleman’s ditto, ditto, in hunting
ca *> ... £2 10 0
Note—The Elgin National Watch Co..
states : ’* Ore-silver is a new white
metal, manufactured and controlled
by ourselves exclusively. These
c i Co are, to all appearances and
i n wearing qualities, the equal of
silver.
Elgin Nationa 1 Watch Co.’s Key winding
Pa’ent Lever, in solid silver patent
dust-band case, with compensating
balance, patent pinion, 7 llnojewels,
open face ... ... ... £3 q q
Same Watch in hunting case ... £3 to 0
Stem-winding (Keyless) Elgin N. W.
Co.’s compensating-ba'ancc. patent-
lever, open enseal f ce, in solid
silver dust-band ca o, with II fine
ruby jewob, pa’em p nion, &c. ... £3 5 0
Same Watch, in hunting case 3 lo 0
INTERCHANG3ABLE SERIES.
/te, All the movements of the Watches in this
series are interchangeable both as regards cases
and parts with any other of our cases. It often
happens that a comparatively low-pric-d watch
performs so well that t,h e wearer is loth to lay it
aside, although dreams* ances enable and render
it desirable for him to carry a costlier and hand-
somer watch. In such case we will be able to
change an open-faced watch of this series for a
hunting-case, or from a silver-case to a gold ono
without any injury to the movement.
Elgin N. Watch Co.’s Interchangeable
Three-quarG-r-pla* c, keyless solid
silver dust-band open face case,
Patent Lever Wa'ih, two pairs fine
ruby jewels, patent pinion, com-
pensating balance, &c 10 0
Same watch —hunting case I 10 0
Interchangeable Patent Lever, Elgin N.
W. Co.’s, three-quarter plate stem-
winding keyless, three-quarter plate,
patent pinion, compensating ba-
lance, 3 pairs extra jewels, and pa-
tent regulator, in solid silver patent
dust-band open face case 5 5 0
Same watch—hunting case a 15 0
We have not space here for further detailed
quotations. A\ e can, however, offer silver-cased
watches at ascending prices up to the following,
which is the finest in the world
Elgin National Watch Co.’s 16size three-
quarter plate, stem-winding, Inter-
changeable, watch ; fine nickel
movement, first quality, with 21
extra fine ruby jewels in raised
gold settings, patent safety pinion,
compensating balance, patent mi-
crometer regulator, brequet hair
spring, exquisitely finished through-
out, and accuratelyadjusted to heat,
cold, isochronism and position ... £4O 0 0
Prices of Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Gold Watches
in a future advertisement.
POMEROY CHAMBERS,
CASTLEREAGH STREET.
THAT ACCOUNTS FOR IT.
Your skin is clear and your eye is bright,
Your step is firm and strong,
Yet they tell me you’re out almost every night,
That you rarely come home till the morning light,
And you’re drinking all day long.
Now, tell me, my son, can this be true,
For I grieve to hear it said,
And it’s hard to believe such a story of you,
Though I’ve done it myself till all was blue,
And it nearly killed me dead.
Yes, my step is firm and fairly strong,
My eyes and skin are clear ;
You are singing both ends of a foolish song,
I’m never out late, and I couldn’t go wrong,
For I drink only CLAUSEN’S BEER
THE LEADING BRAND
THIS SEASON
CLAUSEN’S CHAMPAGNE LAGER BEER.
Backed by
THE DECISIONS OF EXPERTS,
THE APPROVAL OF THE MEDICAL
PROFESSION.
THE GREAT PUBLIC DEMAND,
AND BY THE VERDICT OF TRUTH
CLAUSEN’S CHAMPAGNE LAGER BEER
Maintains its bright color and effervescence, and
is free from sediment for an unlimited length of
time.
As a beverage for the convalescent, and for
those whose digestion is impaired, it has no equal.
EVERYBODY HAS A GOOD WORD FOR IT.
IT IS SO PURE,
SO INVIGORATING,
SUCH A SPLENDID TONIC.
A MILLION BABIES RACING.
THEY DROP OUT YEAR BY YEAR, AND
ONLY ONE LIVES PAST THE CENTURY
MARK.
Any man who would read Australian statistics
for fun would study the Parliamentry records of
the past session for the purpose of improving his
moral tone. The Philadelphia, News ha" put
some statistical information under the above
heading in such a grimly humorous form that its
perusal is a real pleasure, whilst the moral deri-
able therefrom is worth more than years of the
best medical attendance.
Thus the News : —
“If one could see 1,000,000 babies start on a race,
and could follow them through life, this is about
what he would see :
“ Nearly 150,000 of them would drop out of the
ranks by the end of the first year.
“Twelve months later the number would be
still further thinned by the deduction of 53,000
more.
“Twenty-two thousand would follow at the end
of the third year. They would throw up the
sponge by twos and threes until the end of the
forty-fifth year, when it would ho found that in the
intervening period something like 500,000 had left
the track
“Sixty years would see 370,000 grey-healed
men still cheerfully pegging away.
“ At the end of eighty years the competitors in
this great ‘go-as-you-please would number97,000,
but they would bs getting moire shaky and ‘dot
e ich lap.
“ At the end of ninty five seasons only 223
w'ould be left in the final ‘ ties,’ while the winner
would be led into his retiring-room, a solitary
wreck, at the age of 108.”
Of the 379,000 who get past the sixty-mile post,
everyone drinks a fair proportion of Clausen’s
Lvger Beer, but mixed with other and less
innocent blandishments. The 97,000 only realize
it as a wonderful aid to longevity too late to bo of
use to all of them. The 223 survivors at tho age
of ninty-flve have for many years given up every
liquid sustenance but Clausen’s Champagne Lager ;
and the last man—wrecked at the green old total
of 108—might have been alive now had he laid in
a sufficient stock to tide him over a temporary
bare market caused by the enormous demand for
THE WORLD'S PRIZE BEER,
CLAUSEN’S BEER IS SOLD
by Messrs. Mason Bros., limited, Fesq and Co.,
Tooth and Co., Allt and Co., Burrows and Gleeson,
S. Bennett and Co., Lucas Bros., Corncllion and
Co., R. Butcher and Co., J. T. and J. Toohey and
Co., Tidswell, Wilson and A Thompson and Co.
C. Bath and Co., Cooper, Nathan, and Co., Darcy
and Co., A. Rowan and Co., Tucker and Co.,
and Stewart and Co.
It is also kept in all first-class hotels in the city
and suburbs, and throughout the colonics.
THE VERDICT OF TRUTH.
Fair Truth, who lives—so the legends say—
At the bottom of a well,
Came to the surface the other day
To search for facts as a goddess may,
When she has a doubt to quell.
She'd read all the advertising loro,
Touching diffront kinds of beer,
And knew that some of the traders swore
And looked and felt uncommonly sore,
About one they'd cause to fear.
So she gather’d opinions all around
And put them all to test;
And none can question her j udgment sound,
For the more she search’d the more she found
That Clausen’s Lager was best.
And the lovely eyes of the goddess gleam’d
As she spoke in her own good name :
Let this my verdict bo rightly deem’d ;
Let the voice of Truth be well esteem d ;
Hand the “ Phoenix” brand to Fame.
Let it be Truth’s ; ’Tis the only one
That’s worthy my name to bear ;
Let Clausen's Lager henceforth be known
As the one that stands by itself alone ;
For, like Truth itself, ’tis rare.
Here is a yarn of the Ballarat diggings, some
26 years ago, when rum and revelry ran riot, and
the pious “K.G.” (Cousin Jack) sought the seclusion
of the tangled scrub, and offered up his frantic de-
votions in a mia-mia, and gathered up the collection
in a sardine-tin. Foremost amongst the Evangelical
clay-punchers who laboured to plant the seeds of
saving grace in the hearts of their worldly fellow-
diggers, was one Aleck. Smith. Alexander had
been “ plunged in the fountain,” and would foot it
twelve miles or more under a sun which might
blister the neck of a camel, to wrestle with a prayer
or two at an open-air Gospel-meeting. He was most
extravagant with soap and water, and often enough
came out in two clean shirts during the course of a
month. This, coupled with his psalm-singing,
earned him much contempt, and he came to be re-
garded as a miserable duffer, good weight, by the
clay-smirched veterans who observed the Sabbath
whereon to pugilistically settle any little differences
which might crop up during the week, and consume
pestiferous liquors, and fill the camp with carousal
and weird profanity. Smythesdale was panning off
rich, and spirits were high, both animal and bottled.
One Sunday afternoon, when A. Smith had started
for Ballarat to bear a hand in a revival meeting, an aged and dissipated lubra, who had been prowling
round the shanties on the look-out for tumbacker and rum, was found, drunk as a boiled owl, sleeping
peacefully behind a bark and canvas hostel. Several miners, sick of the monotony of rum and a
fight, then more rum and another fight, took the dusky child of Nature and bore her gently to the
tent of Smith. They laid her upon Alexander’s little bed, and tucked his clean blankets around her,
then left her peacefully slumbering to await the coming of Smith. He came at dusk laden with
grace, and entered his tent trilling a hymn. He had removed his go-to-meeting coat and hat before
he observed the coloured matron nestling upon hn virtuous couch ; then his under-jaw dropped upon
his chest, and he gazed dumbfounded. A guileless miner poked his head in at the tent-flap, pre-
sumedly to enquire the news ; he stopped short, looked reproachfully at -smith, and wont away.
Another gaunt digger strolled up, glanced in, sighed heavily, and passed on. He was followed by a
third, who cut short a curt request for the loan of a piece of soap, to groan sadly and fade away.
Then Alexander was heard to bellow, and presently he lugged out the comatose nig., and wrathfully
cast her from him. He brought forth his b'ankets and male a bonfire oh them, then went out into
the forest seeking peace. The finger of scorn was pointed at him for many, many days, and ho waxed
thin and pale, and found no rest, till he went for fresh fields and diggings new,


ALL THE MOST
Modern and Elegant
DESIGNS
AMERICAN BUGGIES,
Carriages,
Harness and Express
Waggons.
iwomm
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY
SPECIALLY IMPORTED FOR CITY OR COUNTRY USE.
THE OLD ESTABLISHED
American Carriage
EMPORIUM,
STERLING QUALITY,
AT
Lowest Prices.
mnnco
27 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
EVERY VEHICLE GUARANTEED.
Theatre royal.
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. Sam. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. G.
L. Goodman. Stage Manager, Mr. John Wallace.
Doors open at 7.30 ; commence at 7.15 5
carriages, 12.30.
WILLIAMSON, GARNER, and MUSGROYB’S
ROY AT. COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
(now in the fifth year of its existence).
LA MASCOTTE,
LA MASCOTTE,
A GREATER SUCCESS THAN EVER. •
A GREATER SUCCESS THAN EVER.
Prices—Dress Circle, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Upper
Circle, Is. Box Plan open at Theatre daily from
10 till D. Tickets for all parts at Eastway’s Hotel.
Alhambra music hall,
George-street, Hayxnarket.
Propwetor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp.
THE GREATEST SUCCESS OF THE DAY.
Deafening Applause meets our
Great Australian Comique,
Mr. W. B. WARNER.
Also, the American Dancers and Pong and Dance
The RILEY'BROTHERS,
Songs of Minstrelsy and Mirth
EVERY EVENING.
Popular Prices: Orchestra Chairs, 25.; Stalls
Is. ; Balcony, 6d.
Grsmd Concert Spirituol Every Sunday Evening
at 7.30.
ACADEMY OF MUSIC.
A Lessee ... Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. TL Rickards.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock,
THE RICKARDS-LEETE COMPANY,
Mr. Harry Rickards and his powerful company of
London Speciality Artists,
Academy of Music, Sydney, To Let at the con-
clusion of Mr. Rickard's Season.
Academy of Music, Launceston, To Let from
Monday, January 10, for two weeks.
Treas. Mr. Sydney Hall. Gen. Man. Mr. P. Stuart
The royal polytechnic
OPEN DAILY
from 1.0 a.m. till 5 p.m., and from 7 till 10 p.m.
190 George-street opposite the markets.
A POPULAR PLACE OF AMUSEMENT.
A SCIENTIFIC AND MECHANICAL EXHI-
BITION.
Steam and Electro-magnetic Machines in motion, The
Fairy Grotto, Graphoscopes, Stereoscopes, Praxiniscopes, the
Pranista (the most wonderful Automatic Pianoforte player
in the world). Views in all Countries, the Pastime Tables,
Children’s Corner for Games and Puzzles, Mechanical Figures,
the Peacock’s Parade, the Firemen Rescuing Life, the Bear
Pit, the engraver at Work etching on glass, Curios, Fountains.
Refreshments of the most recherche kind, under the able
superintendence of Mr. Harrington of the Royal Con-
fectionery Co.
ADMISSION, ONE SHILLING; CHILDREN SIXPENCE.
RUSTON PROCTOR & CO?S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
“TRIUMPH” THRASHING MACHINES.
Simon’s Roller System op Flour Milling.
Sole Agents:
E. C. ELLIOTT & CO.,
547 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS, N. AND C.
DIVISION,
Cairns and Herberton Railway Section 2.
TENDERS are invited for the Construction of
the Second Section of the Cairns and Hcrher-
ton Railway—in length fifteen miles twenty chains
in accordance with Plans, Sections, Drawings,
* Oeneral Conditions, and Specifications, which may
be seen at the Offices of the Chief Engineer,
Cairns and Townsville, and at the Office of the
Commissioner for Railways, Crisbane, on and
after MONDAY, the 15th day of November,
1886, where also forms of Tender and other infor-
- inatian can he obtained.
, Tenders, endowed “ Tender for Construction of
' Second Section of Cairns and Herberton Rail-
way” must be deposited at the Office of the Com-
| misgioner for Railways, not later than Four o’clock
5 P-m. on FRIDAY, the 11 day of January, 18S7.
, The lowest or any Tender will not necessarily
' be accepted.
WM. MILES,
, Secretary for Public Works.
Railway Department,
Brisbane, Bth October, 1886.
J » M. RILEY
(late of the Detective Force),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
42 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
conlidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
divorce- libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
■Damage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
Kents and debts collected. From B. M. R.’s long experience
in the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
New Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
globe, he is in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
pspcCiiti-n and strictest secresy, and to faithfully and
orompt ,y attend to all business entrusted to h care.
THE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY
(ESTABLISHED 1869).
Paid-up Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund, £155,000
Directors
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C,
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C.
General Manager: i Secretary:
F. A. A. Wilson. | Hector Allen.
Branches : Uayraarket, Pyrmont, Eedfem, Gosford, Nyn-
gan, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonard’s, Newcastle
and Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
London Bankers: The National Provincial Bank of
England.
Under flic Patronage of Ills Excellency,
Lord Carrington.
JOHN NOAKE,
TOBAGCONTIST,
HAS just landed 200 dozen • well-assorted
STICKS from the principal manufactory in
Paris, and offers them to his patrons and the
general public at prices suitable to all.
GOLD, SILVER, and NICKEL MOUNTED,
in great variety, and even the most fastidious
cannot fail to be suited.
Establishments :
446 & 320 GEORGE STREET,
AND
PALL JVCaVIAIIIi.,
33 Hunter-street, Sydney.
BEDDING! BEDDING! BEDDING!
The same old saying—You Can’t Beat Lawler s.
THERE YOU CAN GET a Hair Mattress, and
no better BOX SPRING MATTRESS was
ever made than those made by LAWLER.
It is literally a mass of spiral springs, heavily
webbed, and thoroughly upholstered in best curled
hair.
Note. —No wire mattress ever made affords
such refreshing rest or can be depended upon as
can the Box Spring Mattress turned out at
608 GEORGE STREE'
KAPOK, soft as Eider Down, at “LAWLER S.’
None hut the celebrated “ Samarang’’-grown
Java Kapox stocked.
No second quality of Kapox at “Lawler’s.”
Flock and Fibre Mattresses, ready for daily
delivery, at Lawler’s.
Wire Mattresses, all sizes, by all makers.
Palliasses, from best long-cut straw —three
qualities.
Purchasers will save money, and, in the end,
worry, by buying at
LAWLER’S 608 George-street, Sydney.
Thousands of people have tried
AND PROVED THAT
FATHER WOLFREY’S WORM POWDERS
arc the best every way for children and adults.
Prepared only oy the undersigned. Price, 6d.
each; by post 7d. When ordering please state
age of patient.
EAMES’
HOREHOUND
AND
COLTSFOOT
SYRUP.
**•
The best medi
cine for reliev-
ing coughs,
colds, hoarse-
ness. &c. It has
a great sale in
Sydney. Price,
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d
per bottle.
EAMES’ ANTIBILIOUS PILLS.
Send for list of testimonials. Price, Is., Is. 6d.,
and 2s. per box. By post 2d. extra.
The above may be procured through any chemist
or storekeeper, or direct from
W. D. BAMES, CHEMIST,
Apothecaries’ Hall,
14, OXFORD-STEEBT, SYDNEY.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, November 2, 1886.
RENDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and
i. SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the lowing PL BLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten-
ders are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Additions, &c., Gaol at Dubbo
Purchase of Right to Collect
Ferry Dues during 1887
Construction of Bridge over
Aulderlcy Creek on road Ray-
mond Terrace to Stroud
Ironwork, Contract No. 23, Syd-
ney Sewerage
Annual Contracts, 1887.
Colonial Architect’s Department
Supply of Building Stone, Sydney
Gaol
Ditto ditto ditto, Parramatta
Gaol
Ditto ditto ditto, Maitland Gaol
Sweeping Chimneys, Victoria
Barracks and other Govern-
ment buildings, Sydney
Supply of Coffins for Govern-
ment Institutions in Police
District of Sydney and Glades-
ville Asylum
Emptying Privies at Victoria
Barracks and other Govern-
ment buildings, Sydney
Winding, &c., Clocks, Govern-
ment buildings, Sydney
Supply of Furniture, Chairs,
Carpets, and Blinds for Public
Buildings
Masons’ and Paviors’ Work
Carpenters’ ditto
Bricklayers’ ditto
Slaters’ ditto
Plasterers’ ditto
Painters’ and Glaziers’ ditto
Plumbers’ ditto
Blacksmiths’ ditto
Supply of Ironmongery
Roads Department,
Supply of Cement
Construction of Boats
Supply pf Drain Pipes
Tuesday,
November 16,
at 11 o’clock.
Additions Lockup Gaol, West
Kempsey
Construction of Bridge over
Wilson’s Creek, Road Bexhill
to Tentenbar
Supply and Fittings in New Com-
pound Engine and Boiler on
board steamer Ajax
Supply and delivery either into
trucks at Newcastle Station
or Honeysuckle Point, coal for
Great Northern Railway dur-
ing 1887.
Washing Linen for Railway De-
partment.
Erection of Pumper’s House at
Bourke, Great Western Rail-
way
Construction of Goods Shed and
Landing Stage at East Tam-
worth
Supply of Stores and Convey-
ance of Coal Harbours and
River Branch (See special no-
tice in Government Gazette.)
Erection of Bridge over Martin’s
Gully, Main North Road, near
Armidale
Erection of Central Fire Brigade
Station, Sydney
Supply of Coal to Railway De-
pots, Goulburn and Harden,
during 1887
Supply of Newcastle Coal to
Trucks, Darling Harbour, for
use on Great Western Rail-
ways during 1887.
Tuesday,
November 23,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Bridge in Ap-
proach to Mehi River Bridge
at Moree
Construction of Covered service
Reservoir, Minrai
Construction of Bridge overYan-
ko Creek —road Yamma to
Colomb Station
Constructio i of Over-bridge,
Guinea-si..eet, Albury
Tuesday,
November 30,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction and Erection of j Tuesday,
Wrought Iron Elevated Ser- I December 7,
vice Tank at Newcastle, con- j at 11 o’clock,
tract 19, Hunter River Dis- |l
trict Water Supply
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
Flour! Flour! Flour!
LION FLOURMILLS,
KENT ST., SYDNEY.
Town Whites, Fine Seconds Flour,
Wheat Meal, Cones, Bran and Pol-
lard, always on hand. All made
from the very best wheat procurable,
and at the lowest prices.
THE AUSTRALIAN LOAN, DISCOUNT,
AND FINANCIAL COMPANY (Limited).
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO sterling.
RESERVE, £23,200 sterling.
SYDNEY
BANKING PREMISES.
Head Otiice ;
CORNER YORK and MARKET STREETS.
Current accounts opened, drafts and bills negotU
ated, and all kinds of usual banking business
transacted
DEPOSITS RECEIVED,
and interest allowed.
At Call, 5 Per Cent.
3 Months, Per Cent.
6 Months, 8 Per Cent.
12 Months, 8i Per Cent.
Current Accounts: Interest allowed on daily
balance to credit. By Order of the Directors.
fJIHE CLIMAX OF PERFECTION
MONTSERRAT
LIME FRUIT JUICE SAUCE.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
JMIEJJDXOZZTE:
Prepared from Pure Drugs and chemicals by
qualified Chemists in the most scientific manner
to ensure the best action,
FOR NOTHIN G
is more essential to enable doctors to make quick
cures, therefore we only employ qualified assist'
ants with diplomas in our establishments, and
supply everything of the best quality at
the lowest prices,
T. JONES & CO.,
DISPENSING CHEMISTS.
53 Market-st between Pitt and George-strcet's*
Branch Houses Orown-street Tram Terminus,
Surry Hills ; and Suva, Fiji
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afliicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic-
Doloreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary 1 In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55,, and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to he the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE, Pharmacaiitical Chemist,
531 Georgre-atreet only.


WATCH
KIDJ'JEYg.
They are the most important secretory organs.
Into and through the Kidneys flow the waste fluids of
the body, containing poisonous matter taken out of
the system. If the Kidneys do not act properly this
matter is retained, the whole system becomes dis-
ordered, and the following symptoms will follow
Headache Weakness, Pain in the Small of hack and
Pushes of heat, chills, with disordered stomach
and bowels. You can thoroughly protect the Kidneys
by Dr. Bell s Bitters, and when any of these symptoms
manifest themselves you can quickly rid yourself of
them, by this best of all medicines for the Kidneys—
Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
What is Dyspepsia?
Among the many symptoms of Dyspepsia or Indi-
gestion the most prominent are Variable appetite •
faint, gnawing feeling at pit of the stomach, with un-
satisfied craving for food; heartburn, feelino- of
weight and wind in the stomach, bad breath, bad
taste in the mouth, low spirits, general prostration,
headache, and constipation. There is no form of
disease more prevalent than dyspepsia, and none so
peculiar to the high-living and rapid-eating Australian
people. Alcohol and tobacco produce Dyspepsia •
also bad air, rapid eating, &c. Dr. Bell’s Bitters will
cure the worst ease by regulating the bowels and
toning up the digestive organs. Sold everywhere
Note.-—Any poor Person, or the manager of any
Hospital, Asylum or Old People’s Home, may obtain
S® liters gratuitously upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
for medicine ’ ° ymg that they are unable to W
BELL’S BITTERS
Manufacturing Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND, & AUSTRALIA.
o
BUTCHER, EE HON & CO., SYDNEY
AGENTS FOB
New South Wales & Queensland.
The New Furniture and Carpet
W arehou.se
Jones, Lawson Lros, & Go.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
AT
LESS THAN ENGLISH PRICES.
EIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
with, three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING ROOMS,
At the Exceedingly Low Price of £5 15s.
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER SUITES,
At Correspondingly Low Prices.
FURNITURE for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY,
THE DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING-ROOM.
BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEADS,
in great variety.
Jones, Lawson Bros., and Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
d
£
a
fd
fd
MANUFACTURERS
& importers of
HATS CAPS it
438 CEORCE 7r
3VDNEV 1
Oppose te jLassetCers
$
or
is
FEIST ISJ-ELLY’S
HORSE & CATTLE BAZAAR
206 PITT STREET, and 119 CASTLEREAGH
STREET.
Branch Establishment: 68 Hunter Street.
W. GARLING
(PROPRIETOR),
Auctioneer & General Live Stock Agent
THE Liverv business is the largest in Sydney,
and the Sale Yard the only one where gene-
ral sales are held of racing stock. High-class
horses disposed of privately and by auction. Busi-
ness connections with the principal stud and
breed owners in the colony. Correspondence
relative to state of market, and all matters re-
garding horses and cattle, personally attended to.
Best facilities for landing and shipping stock.
Insurance (including marine risk) effected on live
stock, rates for which can be obtained on applica-
tion.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
EXBII
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
BARTHENW A R E
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
U «ORIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
«. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
FOLEY’S SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &o. [For
terms, &c., apply to
L. FOLEY,
Manager and Instructor.
rjIHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND,
SYDNEY BRANCHES;
61 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve fund 675,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
. F. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.
ROWLANDS MACASSAR OIL
strengthens, and beautifies the hair: it contains
no lead or mineral ingredients, and can now be
also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and
persons. Four sizes,
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a most cooling,
and refreshing wash for the face, hands and arms,
and is perfectly free from any mineral of metallic
admixtures; it disperses freckles, tan, prickly heat,
redness, pimples, &c.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE produces
immediately a perfect change in red or grey hair,
whiskers and eyebrows, to a glossy and permanent
brown or black, which colour neither washing nor
perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bros.,
E. Prosser & Co., Sydnev
BiiMfwaMMMiiiKilffW
17CREMUN
c /S^<9
yiaifez&e,y'J/tw
•V
T
*l&?/
C(fcb
'r.
ILLUSTRATION (in reduced size) of £1 Order to bo found in the
«LARGE BOTTLES ” OF WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
HIGH-CLASS PHOTOGRAPHY.
Messrs. CHARLEMONT & Co.
BBG to thank their numerous clients for the
liberal patronage shown to them.
Their PHOTOGRAPHS receive the highest
praise, and are acknowledged to be beautiful and
artistic. Inspection is invited to the choice col-
lection of Portraiture now on exhibition in the
vestibule leading to their Studios in the Royal
Arcade.
MR. THOMAS CLEAVE,
who has had the honour of Photographing Her
Majesty Queen Victoria, T.R.H. Prince and
Princess of Wales, Prince Imperial, &c., &c., will
personally photograph each sitter.
Messrs. C. and Co. respectfully ask that ladies
desirous of sitting should make appointments in
the early part of the day.
grosvenoTgalleries,
Royal Arcade.
WJ O H N S O N~
• COOPER, SURVEYOR,
and
LICENSED GAUGER,
11 PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND
STREET, SYDNEY.
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces and Kegs, Tallow
Casks, new and second-hand; also, Wine and
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prices.
tAII.I\<. m ALL ITS BRANCHES. __
C. H. SMITH & SON’,
Manufacturers and Importers
OF
HATS and CLAFS,
302 GEORGE STREET,
3 Doors South of Hunter-street.
Z Caltineks
taken ft
f
pi o
-Al- ,'if7B
S'
fJIHE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER
Saves labour, stationery, and time, writing much faster
than expert pen-men, and condensing matter to less than
one-half the space occupied by pen writing. Beautiful
copies may be taken in the usual manner in the letter-press
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY & CO.,
110 Kent-street.
tinaffin f» traaa 'simna aims <« ran
df
inn muti BAUTHAWAfI
ILB EELL&BLE
Peerless
Gloss.
I iscsssily Is irerj
family. It blacfcs ud
polishes Ladies' and
Children's Beet*
Shoes, Enhhers sad
Satchels, ail fecal
Crashing. Ilvayi
glres satisfaction.
Boston, fS69. fa conceded te sc ■
Kg£J» ilil'THE SIMBm-
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS.
11l 4 233 Gongroai Street Coatea
MASS.. U.B.A
UfMBRCLLAS
RECOVERED;
t.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames re-
covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made equal
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Bepairs neatly executed
Anything yon repire from Sydney
FORWARDED AT
COST PRICE.
NO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods of any description, forwarded free of all
charges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
JOHN T. MINNES & CO.,
90 PITT STREET, SIDNEY, Jf.S.IT.
Everybody \I)rM T? T T’Q
SHOULD USE/ 1 Ju IVJL Jj Li L io
EXTRA SUPERFINE
PLOT7B!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD,
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
831 Gkorge-strkkt, Sydney,
Good News for the lusic-lomg Public.
A BRANCH OF THE
Musical Instrument Direct
Supply Association
Is NOW OPEN at
674 GEOKGE-ST., SYDNEY,
With the Largest Stock of Musical Instruments in
the Southern Hemisphere,
AT LONDON prices, 50 per cent. lesB
than Sydney prices,
Direct from the European manufacturers td
the Australian consumer.
4/6, B/6, 7/6, 9/6. 12/6, 17/6, 21/, *5/, 80/
48/, to £2O.
Speciality : The German-Anglo, in wood box, 21/-
~ Ditto, superior, with steel notes, 35-
rWi mr
: mi
• >
o
c
o^6
ms
ACCORDEONS
st 7/6,10/6 13/6.15/, 17/6.
21/-. SB/-, 80/-, 40/-, to £6
Speciality : The miniature Melodian, 21/-,
Ditto, oak, with steel notes, 42/-.
10/6.15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to *2O.
Speciality : Old Copy Violin, with case, bow
instruction book, 35/-.
CORNETS
at 40/>
50/-, 15/-. 105/-, 130/-
to *lB.
Specialities : The new “Levy” model,
with water key £5 5 0
„ The new “Reynolds” model
with double water key... 910
The new “Reynolds” Echo-
attachment Cornet ... 12 10
FLUTES, from 1/6 to £lO.
Specialty : The 8-key Cocoa D Concert Flute,
with slide-head, in case, by
best English maker 50/
THE SYMPHONETTE!
In nickel silver, with six tunes, 30/-.
Extra tunes, 1/- each.
From 5/6 each to £lO,
The •' Walter Howard” American Nickel Banjo,
£3 3s.
O' Brass and Drum and Fife Bands furnished
throughout, Negro Minstrel Troupes fitted out.
Clarionets, Violin Strings and Fittings, Flageolets
Drums, Guitars, Harmonicons, Tambourines,
and, in fact, an assortment of every class
of Musical Instrument, from a
Jew’s Harp to a Church Organ.
MUSIC 1 MUSIC I MUSIC!!
200,000 Copies New and Popular Music, published
at 35., Is., and 55., sold at 9d. per copy.
£5
WORTH OF
MUSIC FOR
£l.
All instruments carefully packed and forwarded
to any part of the colonies.
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
Manages,


RAW VASELINE.
m.
A
HORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horae Glippers,
Collar Check and Serge, 40 and 44 inches ;
Large assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s Saddles, Spurs, all kinds of
Saddlers’ Ironmongery, &c.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
VFiOLESALE SADDLERS, AND SADDLERS
IRONMONGERS,
125 YORK ST., SYDNEY.
Vv-
df
,f«c£
mr* V el
» O^V*' -'■*■
T. EODEN & 00,
INDIA RUBBER DEPOT,
20 ERSKINE STREET,
Sydney,
For Every Description ot
INDIA RUBBER GOODS.
d
Wholesale manufacturing!
fd
CONFECTIONER
4ZOO*vracS' ,
JAMES STEDMAN
Steam works,Kent s t ncajj £rbkine 5!
"ICsAJ+uq CaJus
to emotn on short sst mane*.
-rooHmy 4 i„,rraa amt***
fd
SINGER
and Oo.’s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap
JOHN HANKS,
363 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
H
f
d
f
ASTHMA. §¥o¥CHmS'..COUGH|
df
~PtJtfPAKXD' ONLVBY (.
Thomas Ingham.
OjJ
R
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Thre;e Gold Medals—
PARIS, 1878; CALCUTTA,IBB4,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
SPRING FLOWERS
JOCKEY CLUB
HELIOTROPE
JASMIN
MAGNOLIA
Atkinson’s renowned
ENGLISH LAVENDER WATER
and other well-known Perfumes are un-
equalled for their delightful and lasting odour
ATKINSON’S ORIENTAL TOOTH PASTE.
Unrivalled for cleansing, beautifying, and
preserving the Teeth and Gums.
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers—
J & E ATKINSON,
H, Old Uond Stikit, Lokdon.
. Trade Mark— “"White Kose” on“ Golden
Lyre."
df
AGUARANTEEwith
each pipe for real
Meerschaum and
Amber.
Fire-proof Briars. Repairs, &c.
. S. ROSENTHAL, Pipemaker.
1 Little Collins-street, East, Melbourne.
Illustrated Catalogues on application,
FURNITURE, CARPETS, & RUGS,
BEDSTEADS .A. IST ID BEDDING.
THE NEW FURNITURE AND CARPET WAREHOUSE,
w <1 VD ’ ,qK £ r °
J bno 0;?h\o* S^o:;<^
U- V-- ■
, rj tA/,
LLLS
(F?
f -■ '• c
tOr-
s_i_i_
T c’
0 /I
(s>
51
y,\
'-
sss
SSSs
< .'. J?; cn'".
C-/TP I lt\ol
■ilhrrr-.
:~
i
THE GORDON DINING-ROOM SUITE.
39 C ASTLERE AGIH STREET,
IST IE .A. R HUNTER STREET.
JONES, LAWSON BROS., & CO.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
NEAR HUNTER STREET.
ts- THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows: —SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on demand. i Park-st.
J. V. WARHEAM, -Manager.
SOJHTCASTL£ SOIVSi
MANUFACTURING HATTERS.]
GEORGE STREET
S YDN EY
I’fC.
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE,
WILLIAM DYMOGK’S
BOOK ARCADE, 208 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Catalogues post free.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
25,000
VOLUMES New and Secondhand
Books always on view at
BOOKS. BOOKS. BOOKS.
Bought, Sold, or Exchanged
G. B. MODINI, Gunmaker,
Begs to announce to his patrons and the public that he has
received by late arrivals, one of the largest and beat selections
of
FIREARMS
seen in Sydney. The latest improvements in Breach and
Muzzle-loading Guns, Rifles, Revolvers, &c. Agent for the
following celebrated London Manufacturers : T. Purdy and
Sons, John Rigby and Co., Joseph Lang and Son, Chas.
Osborne and Co., T. Bland and Son; also Bussey and Co.,
who manufacture all kinds of Sportsmen’s Requirements for
tht field. A large assortment of other celebrated makers’
stock on hand from Webey, Riley, Scott, &0., and the best
Continental and American makers. A choice and complete
stock of Cutlery. Field and Marine Glasses, and sportsmen’s
Supplies in general. Repairs promptly executed by skilful
workmen, and all goods will be faithfully guaranteed at
602 GEORGE-ST., BRICKFIELD HILL,
SYDNEY.
Inspection Invited. tW Price List on application.
ECORNILLON & CO., Wine and Spirit
• Merchants, 22 Bridge street, Sydney,
Hare on Sale —
Mackies & Co. celebrated Whiskie
E. Remy Martin & Co.’s Centaur Brandy, in
bulk and cases
Yve. Martin and Fils Squirrel Brandy
Ca. Vincola del norte de Espana, Rioja Clarets,
Port, &c.
The unequalled A.V.H. Gin, &c., See.
ONUMENTS
Marciarst-street, Wynward-square, Sydney
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iran Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on reques
j. cimotiiiAM,
HEALTH IS WEALTH.
Nerve,
d
s
SRAUi
TREATMENT
Dr. E, 0. West's Nerve and Brain Treatment, a
guaranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions, Fits,
Nervous Neuralgia, Headache, Nervous Prostration, caused by
the use of alcohol or tobacco, Wakefulness, Mental Depression,
Softening of the Brain resulting in insanity and leading to
misery, decay, and death, Premature Old Age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain, or over-indulgence. Each box
contains one month’s treatment. ss. a box, or six boxes for
255., sent by mail prepaid on receipt of price. We Guar-
antee six boxes t? cure ANY gase. With each order re-
ceived by us for six boxes, accompanied with 255., we will
send the purchaser our written guarantee to refund the
money if the treatment does not effect a cure. Guarantees
issued only by
JOHN C. WEST AND CO.,
65 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Circular sent free on application.
.£lOO Reward!
We will pay the above reward for any case of liver com
plaint, dyspepsia, sick headache, indigestion, constipation or
costiveness, we cannot cure with West's Vegetable Liver
Pills, when the directions are strictly complied with. They
are purely vegetable, and never fail to give satisfaction.
Large boxes containing 30 sugar-coated pills Is. For sale by
all druggists. Beware of counterfeits and imitations. The
genuine manufactured only by
JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
65 Market-street Sydney, N.S.W.
Sent Prepaid by post on receipt of Is. per box in stamps.
w w w
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMENT.
Infallible remedy for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
Gout, Sprains, Outs, Burns, Scalds, Bruises, Headache,
Mumps, Hip Disease, White Swelling, Felons, Chilblains
Whitlows, Chapped Hands, Frozen Feet, Bites of Insects,
Sore Throat and all diseases requiring external application.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers.
Price Is, and 2s. per Bottle.
JOHN C. WEST & CO., Sole Proprietors.
SYDNEY, CHICAGO and
TORONTO.
B
RADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY!
SPRING and C’CON NELL STREETS.
fd
Full suites for dining-room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
ARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
Cmatch.
f
Sideboards of modern
designs and various dimen
sions, in OAK, MAHOGANY,
WALNUT, ASH, and CEDAR.
A large selection, at all
prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably Up-
holstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
d
£35
PIANOFORTE,
guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brilliant
tone, in handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMI OUTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Wood?, Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &o. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell and
Spring Streets.
fd
WALNUT FALL.
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell and Spring
Streets.
CHIFFONIER WHATNOTS, effective designs.
Large choice. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
fd
Drawing room cabi
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
0 Connell and Spring Streets.
Drawing-room occasional chairs.—
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s. 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
f
JCE CHESTS,
all sizes,
From 27 s.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and
LAMB.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed -
rooms. New designs covered to order in.
any'material.
d
E
XCELSIOR UPRIGHT'
IMPROVED
REFRIGERATORS,
various sizes,
Prom 15s.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair and couch for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
Rocking easy chairs, ei^^T^dl^
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
fd
Bedsteads, aii sizes.
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and*
LAMB,
Importers,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
rates <1
fd
SPRING MATTRASSES
Woven Wire, best
make ; also, Spiral Springs
Price, from 11s. each.
BRADLEY, NEWTON and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.-Pine “Tables,
13s. 6d. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3105.; Clothes Hoises. from 10s. 6d.j
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 90s.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,


“ A Challenge to ‘ The Bulletin,’ ”
“ George PaToN,” who dates from Bris-
bane, sends us an abusive letter enclosing the
following cleverly-written article clipped from an
American paper. George offers to “bet his
boots ” that The Bulletin dares not reprint his
gorgeous specimen of mixed American truth, lies,
and humour, for fear of offending the “ so-called
Irish patriotic party,” which it has always consis-
tently supported. In reply, we are proud to be
able to inform him that The Bulletin is just
about the only secular journal in Australia that
dare accept his challenge. The original Yankee
who wrote the article seems to have but one real
ground of complaint—that the clever, persevering,
and aggressive Irishman, transplanted into an
atmosphere of freedom, is beating him on his own
ground. If the Hibernian party boss and the
Hibernian policeman, to say nothing of the
Hibernian congressman and senator, can manage
to govern America, as they seem to be doing, by
sheer force of energy, they ought certainly to be
;l)i,
a
A Victim.
“ It rash a skinner, s’whelp me ! ”
On the Wrong Side.
An Unhappy Horseman.
Thumb nail Scotches.
At the Governor’s Ball.
“ Pretty as a Picture.”
Thumb-nail Sketches, by Tom Roberts.
qualified to rule their own country. We will now
permit the hard-hitting funny man from the
prairies to go ahead in his ow n mendacious style :
“ The history of Ireland fi onl about the eleventh
century lias been a most unhappy one. Ireland
has been for centuries the theatre of more disas-
trous events than have occurred in any country
;of civilization. Insurrections, treasons, conspira-
cies, civil wars, famines, have followed each other
in quick succession. Ireland had at one time eight
millions of inhabitants. It has had anarchy, chaos,
and confusion of every kind. It has been ruled
by priests, political leaders, patriots, Protestants,
Catholics, by secret societies, by military leaders,
by the English Parliament, and by Home Parlia-
ments. There is no device of Government it has
not tried and failed under. There have been no
experiments of reform that have been permanent
or that have succeeded. Whether England treated
Ireland brutally or generously seemed to
make no difference in its condition ; there has
never been a party of government in Ireland that
did not end in quarrel and bloodshed, and never a
body of politicians that was not filled with traitors,
spies, and informers. Religion has always been
and is now, and will continue to be, the cause of
dissensions. The Church of Rome and its priests
hate always been the underlying cause of Ire-
land’s troubles. The fact seems indisputable that
Ireland is incapable of self government, and the
Irish are deficient in qualities that are essential to
orderly and permanent rule. The Irish have never
learned the necessity of submitting to law. They
have never understood that the minority should
submit to the majority ; they are a ttu-bulent,
restless, discontented, law-violating, riotous, and
disorderly element wherever they have been
found. They arc the same in America
as in their native land. These remarks
apply to the uneducated and uncultured
of the Celtic race, and to none other.
That the Celtic Irish have good qualities no one
will deny; they are loyal to their church, and in
their way they love their native land ; they are
brave, generous, enthusiastic, and when subdued.
civilised, cultivated, and brought under the sub-
jection of the law, make good citizens ; under dis-
cipline and good leadership they make good
soldiers ; they are like fire —good servants, but
dangerous masters. In America, if they could not
vote, if Ihcy had not been admitted to citizenship,
there would be no more desirable or valuable peo-
ple to do the work of the country. But, as a rule,
when given office or allowed to have a voice in the
administration of government, they are a sorry
lot; they all want office ; they are natural-born
party bosses ; they all want to get into the police
force ; they are an ungrateful lot, though they are
good talkers ; they are ignorant, priest-ridden, and
bigoted to a degree. This last remark is applicable
* o the original importation ; the first-born genera-
tion from the boys is an immense improvement
upon the ‘ ould stock ’; boys educated at our
public schools are all bright; the fact is, they are
too bright. The son of a hod-carrier when he
leaves school will not carry a hod, the daughter
of an Irish wash-woman won’t wash, the child of
Irish servants won't go out to service. Then why,
in the name of common sense, won’t they let
Chinese and Africans do the work that they won’t
do ? All the boys want to become politicians, and
they do. All the girls want to be ladies, and they
are. If by any chance an Irish boy escape? getting
into an office, or becoming a lawyer’s clerk, or
securing a chance to tend bar, they make most
excellent business men ; and if they escape these
perils in early life, and do not have the misfortun e
to be educated in a parochial school, and
their parents have not enough money to
send them to a Jesuit college, they make mag-
nificent American citizens, and upon all
questions except political and religious ones
are level-headed and sensible. The Irish—
we mean the Celtic Irish —are born tyrants.
This trait of character is national, it is inborn, it
is universal ; it is observable from the Bridget
who cooks in the kitchen to the meanest political
blackguard who hangs about the gin-mill. Give
these Irishmen power, and they will abuse it ;
they are vain and arrogant braggarts to all be
neath them ; they are the veriest of flunkies to all
above them. The Irish are all eloquent, but there
is no argument so powerful to persuade and so
convincing with them as the shillalah. Knock
one of them down, and he .uses to shako hands
and congratulate the victor. If (he Irishman
knocks his opponent down, ho kicks him in the
face and bites off an ear. They arc brave like
coyotes, they prefer to go in gangs and in the
night. The bark of the coyote is more dangerous
than the bite. There is nothing the ignorant Celt
so much loves as to yawp. Balaam’s ass and
Samson’s jaw-bone were both Irish. In order to
yawp they form societies. The history of Ireland
for the last 200 years has been a history of secret
organisations which live till some informer peaches
upon them, when they are broken up and scat-
tered by the police. Ireland would have been an
independent nation half-a-dozen times within the
period alluded to if it had not been for the Irish
police. Irishmen make good policemen, espe-
cially when called upon to quell an Irish riot, for
if there is anything in the world that an Irishman
likes to do next to talking it is to fight, and if there
is anybody in the world whose head he delights to
break it is that of another Irishman. As most
riots are caused by the Irish, it follows that no
American city ought to have a police force not
in part composed of Milesians. The Irish a o
never anarchists s rarely socialists, and we must
do them the justice to admit that they would
rather acquire property honestly and openly than
acquire it in the cowardly and dishonest manner
of the agrarian. They won’t pay rent if they can
avoid it; they won’t surrender the premises if
they can prevent it. If the Irish could secure a
Parliament on Dublin Green, it will be worse than
the Grattan Parliament; that was Protestant—
corrupt and rotten as it could be ; it was brilliant,
eloquent, and profligate. The next Parliament, if
the Irish ever get it—which we hope they won’t—
will be Catholic. It will be brilliant, eloqueip,
and prof! gate ; it will be corrupt, as was its Pro
testant predecessor, and, like that, it will sellout
to England whenever England wants it bad enough
to pay the coin. For the benefit of those Irish-
men who have read ( his article so far, we append
Wolfe Tone’s opinion of the Grattan Parliament.
It is also our opinion of the Grattan Parliament;
it is our opinion of the Parnell Parliament;
it is our opinion of all Irish Parliaments-Pro-
test ant and Catholic—that can be chosen from
this generation of Irishmen. Wolfe Tone said:
“ I have now seen the Parliament of Ireland, the
Parliament of England, the Congress of the
United States, the Corps Lcgislatif of France, and
the Convention Batave ; I have likewise seen our
Volunteer Convention of 1783. and the General
Convention of Catholics in 1793 so that I have
seen in the way of deliberate assemblies as many
I believe, as most men—and of all these I have
mentioned, beyond all comparison, the most
shamelessly profligate and abandoned by all sense
of virtue, principle, or even common decency,
was the legislature of my own unfortunate
country. The scoundrels ! I lose my temper
every time I think of them.” So do we. And
that is what is the matter.”
