

The Bulletin
m
CURING THE MOUTH OF JUNE,
. AT THE
TOl FMISM IMIDL
To f,
10 ,s tock-taking purposes, and reduce our enormous open stock to something
like a come-at-able size, we are determined to hold
■ like s
' great
k
STOCK TAKING SALE!
|!|!tot & •
“tg thtF- to a^ow fictitious discounts, or make apparent Enormous Seductions by
Bt(jf Prices and then reducing, but we are going carefully through our Enormous
ck > and RE-MARKING EVERYTHING IN PLAIN FIGURES at the
LOWEST REMUNERATIVE PRICES!
1 \
Stocks: CorLSists of all Classes cf
Bedsteads, Crockery, Glassware, leasehold Ironmongery,
P \V
s atisfy the wants of everybody. Come Early. Do not delay your , purchases.
THIS IS A GENUINE BONA-FIDE SALE.
1
4.UPEELL BROTHERS.
PYAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
S"STIDINr
ITE2IT BOTAL HOTEL.
3T


MoLEAJt BSG&, BIGG 4k CO.,
IROKM ONQERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
612 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.’
#-
*
f .
o
6
IRONMONGERS
512 X
. !rEG9!
m ■& jA
c>
SPECIALITIES I
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
OAS COOKING STOVES i—LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS ft WALKER’S
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, fcC., &C,
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 and 24 Clarence-st.,
Sydney.
FLEMING’S
KBiIAJSLB
BUGGIES
warn BRADS
■nu, :
IQALIIX,
W by AXXthe
SMfllag OHIMI.
■H bow franc ap
W! HOW GOODS
...
1
FLEMING’S
WABBOHS
AND
Harness,
Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS]
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Cam. and Inspkot
%
$
-ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES k PRICES POST FRE£~
.W.H.PALING&G™"
356 GEORGE ST SYDNEY.
FiaNo, Organ f Music Importers.
largest stockand greatest Variety in Australia - giving bhe
bublijUhe Widest pes&itfle choice.- PIAIWS from £Ao, ORGANS from £l2-
* PAYMENT BY MONTHLY INSTALMENTS TO SUIT ALL CUSTOMERS
PALING PALI fit G it &
PAYMENT
TKVHffi it C«
&
O
t*
9
dfg
OOT
dr
WOE IJaZAAM
252 a. George £ *
Late JPeaXt artcL EarxxHtrl Sys. JflQT'
OFFORD 8t CO.’S HATS
LIGHTEST, BEST, and CHEAPEST.
KBIT TO ROYAL HOTEL, and at 662 GEORGE STREET
2
SINGER
and Co.’s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap
JOHNMNKS,
818 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PT.ATF, SHEET, and ORNAMENTAL
(WINDOW GLASS
White Lead, Oils, Colours, Varnishes, &c.
Paperhangings, Dadoes, Friezes, &c.
Mouldings, Backboards, and Toilet Glasses
Overmantels, Silveringjmd Bevelling/
ifSmWf
lteassmbast, nr;
281 GEORGE STREET.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The A. G. Co. are selling
khe above goods at a large discount from usual
prices, being the stock taken over from Mr. A.
BortUvriek.
n«fui*ie will have prompt attention.
REMINGTON
HE
TYPE-WRITER
Saves labour, stationery, and time, writing much faster
than expert pen-men, and condensing matter te less than
one-half the space occupied by pen writing. Beautiful
copies may be taken in the usual manner in the letter-press
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY & CO.,
AlO Kent-streeb.
ZCaiuiets
p/j?
s
yA i
dfg
A/VO
WAUI
f’fflivfps
mud Office & factory, wevytowh
BRANCH.
“BOOKS.”
AJSTGTJS
Any Book You Want.
80 ;
11* MARKET STREET,
Large stock of-*ew[and second-hand Books. Price of any book on »PP <^P
mail to any part of Ans lia.
TS
00 TS
T. WILLIAMS & CO.,
IMPORTERS OP
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes .
Also Manufacturers of
The Finest Quality of Goods in the above UN® 8 *
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney-
Ho‘*
of*
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY.
“ NAIU' 0 '
"“c'haw£!J
Qdfln * Mf*
CUT.^JjJ)
gXHUBf.OF}^.'
MINING EXCHANGE i HOTEL,
GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
Thk Centrai 'Hotel. Sitting Room.
“ Rendezvous for all parties engaged in mining
business.
H. G. BAILES, Proprietor.
WJ O H N S O N
• COOPER. SURVEYOR,
and
LICENSED GAUGER
11 PHILLIP STREET, and at CTjfiVK'l.A'M,'
STREET, SYDNEY,
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces and Keg?- Ta. Vow
Casks, new and second-hand j also, Wiia» and
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prices.
GAUGING IN ALU ITS BKiKCBKI,,
TO WINEGROWERS AND GT.BETO
G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALS
WINE CASKS, 250 to 400 gallons ;
tL- •also,
Run, Sno ”y and Whisky PUNCBECi 8
H 'Quarter casks, Spirlb Kegs on
oral ons and upwards
COOPERAGE. gf&TW J*
87 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET
Between King and Market streets.
Om.R i l a
(late of the Detective Force),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
I*3 HOYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY,
Absoonders and wife deserters traced, and all kind* of
ttrafidential Inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
livorce. libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
debts collected. From R. M. R.’s long experience
In the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
wew Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
{lore^ he is in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
JipsuraLK ana strictest seoresy, and to faithfully and
|..«p y attend to all business entrusted to h care
THE GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL,
Charlotte-place and Georqe-street.
K. HANNEY’S
± DOZEN OABE
OF ASSORTED
WINES, SPIRITS, and MAIT LIQUORS,
'DELIVERED ANY PART OP CITY FREE
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer. Order the ldoz case as
you please from the list of low prices as under, viz.
Robertson’s, Walker or Roval Blend Scotch Whiskies 4s 6d
Dunvtlle’s Shamrock and Burke’s XXX Irißh do 4s 6d"
Brian Boru Whisky .... gg' g,.'
Hennessy’s"Cognac .. .. ” ” sb ; g^'
Square Gin - 6d
Jamaica Rum .. .. .. .. .. 4s 6d"
Rea Heart do. .. .. .' ” 4s" 6d
Flasks Brandy and Whiskies .. 2s and 2s 6d
English Ales and Stout, best brands Is. or 11s. 6d per dozen"
Port Wine, for connoisseurs and invalids 6s
Port Wine and Sherry from .. ’’ 2s
Best brands Whisky or Brandy from 20s. per gallon.
£3 CASE ALSO A SPECIALITY.
Superior ACCOMMODATION for Travellers. Ever*
attention afforded to Visitors from the country. The Dining
rooms are conducted under the supervision of Mrs. Hanney,
late of Wellington (N.Z.), which will he a guarantee that her
Guests will receive every attention. The Best Brands of
Wines, Spirits, and Beers always on hand. New Zealand
papers kept on file."
rjlHjK OL I MAX OF PERFECTION
MONTSERRAT
LIME FRUIT JUICE SAUCE.
\ „
[BOLD EVERYWHERE,
GRAND
ORIA G^cos\
jum^ r ' iu ' o ,ivoo w t r#Vrf
A PRI Eof £25
_A_ of the Mechanics ttegr^/
Competitors who ca oU toi tb mo^a/,
THnirlish words ou No »p 6 J
Competitors who can u tof t % ul .- ,| r
modern English words °„
in “Victoria QW** '
in “ Victoria Guß,J p' n »nie 0
geographical or P r °^ e ice 10
letter to be used mP eti t
'in Victoria. ComP velo pe, torl^^
•* i” in Victoria.
Df words in a sea '! (lcr or ( e3 se^ (
postal note money order, ftd dr *
sostal note money . g9i
die value of two shdh
iersigned. s " ch Tr Mai 88 ®
5 o’clock p.m. on Her m
_ . JX
S3SSTr.-.'« wy»
me, 1887, and ,® p _ nlll ittee ° f b ii9l> ( fl-'
resence of the Co jp e PppAi.t//
ime of the winner w 1 V> c 7
alasian.
e Mechanics’ Institu
High-class Dentist**
St
tte
g, LOW
t*
1 K
0
-ill
133 EL! Z 4
-
i i .iin"—- . aC te» jj,
Teeth dai^V/ ^; /'
m
erf
CH^
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
df
f,
if
LOCOMOTIVES,
estimate 17
m
Sydney:
HI. PITT BTIK eT -
r/
Detigo*


The Bulletin
g
SATURDAY, JUYE 11, 1887.
Price., Od.
“Another Such Victory and We Are Undote!”
RINGNOSR WISE (log.) : "BUT. LOR, YOU OUGRT TO HAVE SEEN T'OTHER DOG!


THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHED ONCE A ITEEK,
AT 84 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable In Advance, only).
Per annum - - - -£1 Os. Od.
Half-yearly - - - - O 12s. Od
Quarterly - - - - O 6s. 6d
Ail money orders, oheques, and registered letters
payable to
J. M. HARDING,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed,
NOTICE.
By Bending direct to The Bulletin Offioe twenty shillings
•terling—which you may pay by Post Offioe Order, One-
pound Note, or stamps of any Australian oolony- you oan
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is net open to residents of Sydney. In that oity
The Bulletin is not delivered by mall, but is entirely in
the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to Inter-
fere.
Recent political events, and the tenor of letters
published in the N.S.W. country press, render
the announcement necessary that Mr. John
Haynes, M.L.A. for Mudgee, has no longer any
connection whatsoever, either commercial or
literary, with The Bulletin.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, JUNE 11, 1887.
Ireland and Rome.
Owing to circumstances which will readily sug-
gest themselves it is unwise to place too much
faith in European telegrams to Australian
journals, particularly when thf.se messages
deal with Irish affairs. To free one’s self
entirely from national and religious bias is
no easy matter. The astute transmitters of
cable news know this, and they know also
that the great bulk of the Australian people
are either British Protestants or their
descendants. The sons inherit in a mild
form some of their fathers’ prejudices, while
the fathers, having left their native land at
a time when British opinion upon matters
Hibernian was much less advanced than it is
to-day, brought with them to their now
home those warped views so common in
Great Britain a generation ago. It is diffi-
cult for conquerors to avoid harbouring a
certain amount of contempt for the people
they have subdued, especially when the
conquered do not take kindly to the ways of
their masters. The Saxons reduced the
Romanised Britons to slavery, and were
themselves in turn converted into serfs by
the predatory Normans. So it comes that
even in our own day the average English-
man looks upon his fellow-subject on the
other side of St. George’s Channel as a
crotchety, sleeveless fellow, fond of airing
trumpery wrongs—an erratic and mischiev-
ous being whom it is necessary to keep in
order with a firm hand. And so it happens
that nearly all the telegrams bearing on this
eccentric creature and his droll demands to
be allowed to manage his business in his own
way become twisted and untrustworthy.
The dress may be Esau’s yet the voice is
uncommonly like Jacob’s.
• * *
But, some days ago, a message came half
round the world to say that the Irish Col-
lege at Rome had warned the Vatican against
Mr. Parnell and his works. On the
face of it this news is probable. Rome,
which has just ordered masses to be
said in all the Romanist churches of
England on Jubilee Day, is a huge
semi-religious, semi-political organisation un-
compromisingly Conservative. She does not
believe in revolution or rebellion, in political
or religious disturbance. She has not yet
reconciled herself to the great French up-
heaval of a century ago that treated her and
her claims with such easy disdain. No
doubt she sounds a note of warning occasion-
ally, even in our own time, but it has not the
fine, menacingly insolent ring of old. It is
timid, and half apologetic. Down into the
scientific arena, too, she sometimes trips to
sound a truce, but the combatants receive
her advice with jaunty mockery, and even go
so far as to suggest to her the prudence of
confining her counsels to women of both
sexes, for whose understandings they are
best adapted. It is, therefore, extremely
probable that a college whose professors are
ecclesiastics devoted to the Vatican, would
see in the movement directed by Mr. Par-
nell a step, not in the direction of political
freedom alone, but of mental freedom as
well. For in these days the nation that has
reached liberty’s goal, having succeeded in
one direction, quickly turns its thoughts into
other channels. It begins by challenging
the justice of human laws ; it ends by asking
unpleasant questions about so-called divine
ones. The wise priests who teach the beau-
ties of unquestioning faith within sight of
St. Peter’s are aware of this. To them
national aspirations are of small account
when opposed, or likely to be opposed, to
clerical domination. So, as we have said, it
is probable, on the face of it, that the Irish
College has warned the Pope and his ad-
visers that Mr. Parnell is employed in the
by no means difficult task of converting his
countrymen into rebels.
There will never be much hope for Ireland
until she either breaks with Rome or, if it
is too late in the day to look for such a con-
summation, until, while accepting the latter’s
theology she repudiates her politics.
Scattered throughout the world to-day are
Irishmen with Celtic, Danish, Saxon, and
Norman blood in their veins—men who,
brought up at English, Nonconformist and
Catholic altars, have little in common but
the desire to see their native land prosperous
—whose heartfelt wish is that Ireland should
brook no Roman interference in state affairs.
They know by bitter experience that the
bedizened old men who crowd round the
Pope as with bizarre humility he washes the
feet of twelve maccaronically-malodorous
penitents are much better pleased to hear
that Paddy Murphy or Mick Doolan con-
fesses regularly and pays his Easter dues
promptly than that he is bent on having
Home Rule and three sq uare meals a day. They
know too that until the breach we speak of
occurs Irish freedom will remain an idle
dream. Protestants would very naturally
resent being governed by people, however
good, who feared to take a step without con-
sulting a foreign priest. Impressed though
we are with the intrinsic justice of Ireland’s
claims we would be disposed to doubt
whether the country was really ripe for self-
government were we not assured that the
Catholics as a body would quickly repudiate
the arrogant interference of the Irish College.
Upon the religious aspects of the question
we do not care to enter. Indeed we do not
set up as an authority on sacerdotal matters,
as, owing to an unhappy obliquity of re-
verential vision, we have an ill-regulated
tendency to consider Pope, Primate, and
Presbyter as so many rowers in the same
boat, or as a trinity of highly meritorious
persons who are at present a little behind
the times. It is with the political side we
deal. And we say with confidence that,
viewed from such a standpoint, Ireland has
always found in Rome a true stepmother.
Over seven hundred years ago Henry 11.,
the first of the Plantagenets, discovered that
the much smaller island “ was commodious
to him,” and that it would be well “to
enlarge the bounds of the Church, to plant
virtue among them [the Irish] and to increase
the Christian religion.” Oddly enough, the
reigning Pope was of the same way of think-
ing, possibly owing to the fact that the
Irish contributions to Peter’s Pence were
some years in arrears. Whether it is
Peter’s Pence or rent, the Celt always seems
to be behind-hand. It is singular that when
princes or popes desire lands that do not
belong to them, their desires are always
prompted by motives of religion and virtue.
It is to civilise the natives, not to aggrandise
themselves, they aim. But it is open to
argument whether the best way to make a
man good and happy is to begin by robbing
him. One thing is certain—the Plantagenet
and the Pontiff who took the turbulent Irish
in hand in order ‘‘ to plant virtue among
them ” by means of Norman freebooters,
must have had a very fine sense of humour.
Confidence, it is said, is a plant of slow
growth, and in Ireland’s case it has been
peculiarly tardy. All down the centuries
she has lain helplessly between the English
hammer and the Roman anvil. The priest,
not the soldier, has been her worst foe. Her
struggles for freedom have been rendered
abortive, and even ridiculous, by this para-
lysing influence, fearful lest by sanctioning
temporal rebellion the way might be made
easy for spiritual. In ’9B it was not alone
the failure of the French to land in time or
in force that resulted in the massacre of
Vinegar Hill, and its ghastly sequel of the
gallows and the triangles. It was the failure
of all but a few of the Eastern counties to
rise that enabled the Government of the
day to triumph so easily, and that failure
was mainly attributable to Rome’s fear that
successful Irish rebels would too carefully
copy their French prototypes. From ’B9 to
93, and, indeed, up to 1814, the seven-
hilled city received so many shocks from
those naughty Frenchmen that she set her
face as firmly against revolutions amongst
men as she did against the revolution of the
earth a couple of centuries before. Again,
when Catholic emancipation came to the front
she was far more solicitous that her Hibernian
children should remain devout believers
than that they should become freemen, and,
perhaps, inoculated with the virus of change
Once more, in ’4B, it was solely through her
influence that the Democratic wave that was
sweeping Continental Kaisers, Kings, and
priests before it spent itself in Ireland in a
poor little cabbage-garden ripple. Even
after ’4B, when the unfortunate island, ac-
cording to Gavan Dufey, was stretched like
a corpse on a dissecting-table, a large mea-
sure of relief might have been won for the
starving cotters, but for the wet blanket
thrown on the tenant-right movement by
the reactionary Pio Nono and his faithful
henchman, Paul Cullen.
Without presuming, then, to offer an
opinion regarding the faith that is best
adapted for training men to perform on
celestial shawms and timbrels, we shall con-
fine ourselves to the assertion that, so far as
Irish freedom is concerned, it would have
been far better for her people had they
flouted Rome three centuries ago like their
English, Scotch, and Welsh neighbours.
Heaven might possess fewer Irish saints,
but at least their earthly pilgrimage would
have been happier. Every now and then
able men arise to tell us in choicely moulded
sentences that the Celt is superstitious by
nature, and that his mental constitution is
not sufficiently robust to expel the poison of
sacerdotalism from his system. In view,
however, of the fact that the Welsh,
who are far more Celtic than the
Irish, sit at the feet of shepherds whose
sermons would shake up the supreme
Pontiff if he heard and understood them,
from both of which contingencies he is hap-
pily saved, and of the additional fact that
only about half the German-speaking Teutons
are of the reformed faith, this theoiy of
Celtic inferiority may be laid aside. What is
really certain is that a Protestant Ireland
would be a self-governed Ireland, just as a
Catholic Ireland will be when the people get
a firm grip of O’Connell’s maxim : “As
much religion as you like from Rome, but
no politics.’’ We therefore welcome the
new’s concerning the Irish College and its
action. We do so, not with the vain hope
that such action will result in causing a
religious breach between Rome and Dublin.
Indeed, it is not certain that we would feel
much interest in learning that the Celts of
Connaught had turned Methodists in a body
and were making Shannon’s banks rever-
berate with the No. 3 collection of hjmns.
We welcome it because it may tend to teach
men struggling to be free that when the
priest steps out of his proper and useful call-
ing of frightening women and preaching
what few men believe, he should be politely
but firmly requested to stand aside.
The Rented Cafe and Bar.
TnE unutterable misery of the gaols, madhouses,
hospitals, and asylums presents only a fraction of
the evils created, nourished, and perfected by in
temperate indulgence in alcoholic liquors.
The march of Democracy is impeded by alcohol,
which blunts the feelings until men are incapable
brutes, which saps independence until men are
cringing curs, and which stifles the higher aspira-
tions of human nature aiming at that broad
brotherhood signifying justice, goodwill, and
equal rights. The alcoholic problem will be at-
tacked in the future with the determination of
assigning it to its proper place. Its proper place is
not at every street-coiner and in every conspicuous
public position where the weakness of human nature
may be assailed. The ‘ ‘ cate ” is the chief of
charmers, and the private-bar comes next; in
fact, they are synonymous so far as their relation
consists in bringing a baneful influence into play.
Do not the greedy proprietors of many of these places
secure the most bewitching barmaids to bring to
bear all the blandishments of brazen beauty upon
the weakest of men ? Do they not in many in-
stances sub-let their dens of iniquity at ex-
tortionate rentals to low women, and compel
them to purchase their mixtures, which must
again be doctored in order to yield a profit to the
sub-lessees ? Do not these sub-lessees, after their
decoctions have chaimed and obfuscated, pluck
the pigeons ? Are not many of these sub-lessees
Jezebels undisguised, and to all intents and pur
poses the cream of the demi-monde l A well-
known city hotel-keeper was so barefaced
that he actually advertised recently for “good-
looking barmaids" upon opening a new “hotel !”
The abominations of the Sydney city cafes of a
few years ago were of such a flagrantly demoralis-
ing character that they were dealt withby the police
authorities. The Inspectors waged a vigor-
ous and apparently successful crusade against
them ; but most of the harpies who ran them
betook themselves to fresh fields and pastures
new, and the remaining few continued their
nefarious trade under the garb of temperance
cates, where grog was sold on the sly and where
prostitution and debauchery flaunted itself in an
offensive form under the very eyes of the police.
The old style of cate as carried on under the then
Licensing Act, was a drinking-saloon and ren-
dezvous for the dissolute of both sexes, who,
under the influence of bad grog, carried on their
orgies far into the night, making Pitt, King, and
Castlereagh-streets hideous with their blasphemy
and drunken brawls. An ill-lit room, the
feetid atmosphere of which reeked with tobacco
smoke and the fumes of alcohol ; a bar and a
piand at one end—drunken men and women gesti-
culating wildly—demoniacal laughter following
coarse jokes, low comic and pot house songs, the
lower and filthier the better, yelled out to the ac-
companiment of the hurdy-gurdy, which was
generally played by a broken-down and boozy
musician. Such was the “cate ” of old.
A new class of cate, which is rapidly spreading
—we refer 10 the rented one—has recently sprung
into existence, and is of a more dangerous charac-
ter than the old one above described, because
carried on under a gloss of respectability in re-
putedly decent hotels, usually under the name of
“ Private Bar.” The present rented cafe, or rented
private bar, is elaborately fitted up with mirrors,
chandeliers, elegantly designed bar-counters and
shelves, marble-topped tables, luxurious seats,
and every other thing calculated to please the
more refined sinner. The Bacchanalian beauty
who presides over this whited sepulchre is
not the employd of the publican ; she rents the
bar from him ; and in some well-known instances
as much as ten and even fifteen pounds per week
are paid in advance 1 Beyond supplying the
liquor the publican has no control over the sub-
lessee nor her assistants, who live away from the
hotel. Can anyone believe that the barmaid can
buy her liquor from the publican, pay waitresses,
and a weekly rent of ten or fifteen pounds—and
conduct a legitimate business? Her silks and
surroundings, her jewellery and display, all evi-
dence that she does make it pay I How ? She
has a regular connection, who buzz around her
morning, noon, and night like flies around a
treacle-cask; she has a smile and welcome for
them all- a lewd joke for the flash youth, a blast l
repartee for the middle-aged masher, a doubtful
story for the used-up roue, and her charms are for
those who plank down the most coin. Who are
her customers ? Bank clerks, Civil servants, mer-
chants, squatters, lawyers, military men, kid-
gloved and curled darlings of clubs. But surely
the police, too, must be among her admirers.
The present New South Wales Licensing Act,
which was the outcome of the colossal wisdom of
a Parses, a Henson, a Habigale, and others of
that ilk, was at the time regarded by temperance
reformers as a great improvement on the old state
of things. Abominations more baneful, more
dangerous, and more insidious, have sprung into
existence, and there are others to which we will
refer on another occasion. Did the framers of the
Act contemplate its flagrant evasion by the sub-
letting of bars to feed the insatiate greed of some
of the more unscrupulous and grasping publicans ?
After the evils of the old cafes had been forced
upon the attention of the authorities it was sud-
denly discovered that there was a clause in the
Act which gave them the legal power to suppress
them. Is there no clause in the present Act to
suppress the rented cate and rented private bar of
to-day ? If there is, we call upon the police
authorities to enforce the law ; if not, we demand
that the Government shall at once, in the interests
of decency, amend the Act and extirpate this
social cancer.
English Peers and Coloured
Laboui ers.
When the Duke of Manchester was in Aus-
tralia he delivered himself of sundry opinions
adverse to the policy of Queensland in respect of
the coloured labour question. He was impressed
with the idea that a vast amount of British
capital would he attracted towards the develop-
ment of the sugar industry in the North if the in-
troduction of Indian coolie labour were allowed.
He could not understand the reluctance of the in-
habitants of Queensland to permit an influx of
Asiatics hound in quasi-slavery, out of whose toil
a rare profit would be realised by those who were
ready with the needful capital; and he prognosti-
cated a speedy return to reason on the part of the
electors of Queensland, when at once they would
perceive the wisdom of importing coolies and mak-
ing a good thing out of it. Other English peers, who
for various reasons have visited the colonies, have
taken up more or less overtly the same
point of view. It always seemed to these
exalted beings quite funny that the Euro-
pean population of tropical and sub-tropical
Australia should entertain an objection to a
cataclysm of niggers. And now we have a brand-
new “lord” steaming about in his own yacht—
with a “literary” and “pushing” wife, who
employs a secretary to dress up her inane diary—
and it goes without saying that this newest adden-
dum to “ the most august assembly in the world”
has a lot to say as to how we Australians should
utilise our own territory.
Brassey, unfortunately for himself, struck
Adelaide before he got far on his Australian tour.
The people of the city of churches and defaulters
dearly love a lord, and especially a talkative lord.
He is interviewed by reporters at the Semaphore,
and his words taken down and telegraphed to
every newspaper in Australia, before he puts his
foot on shore ; and thereafter is dragged round to
various places at which he can be successfully
pumped and made to orate touching the exact
mode in which the Australian people should man-
age their affairs. Brassey was taken to
numerous meetings in Adelaide, and at
one of these he felt inspired to teach
the colonies an easy lesson as regards the
policy of utilising cheap Oriental labour. To his
remarkably keen perception, unspeakable blessings
were visible as a certain outcome of employing
niggers and Chinamen in the northern regions of
this continent. These people could be imported
in enormous numbers, and could be made to work
very hard on miraculously low wages. British
capital would then flow in to reap a ric h harvest
out of this abundance of low-co3t labour ; glorious
affluence would burst upon the land; and the
Anglo Saxons—what there were of them—would
be steeped in supermundane happiness. The
“loyal” and holy folk of Adelaide were, of course,
mightily pleased with the Brassey doctrines. The
immediate audience consisted of a few successful
merchants, a handful of squatters, and one or two
high-class Civil servants. These gentry voted the
whole question as settled beyond all cavil by the
oracular judgment pronounced by the recently
“ ennobled ” visitor. For was he not a millionaire
“ lord,” and had not his lady written (with the
aid of a cultured secretary) the “Voyage of the
Sunbeam 1 ” Nevertheless, we imagine the Euro-
pean people settled in the northern parts of Aus-
tralia ought still to enioy the right to exclude the
trash proposed to be thrust upon them. Brassey
may be a valuable authority on some matters —we
remember to have read an essay of his, in which
he proved to a demonstration that poor shepherds
are, on the whole, happier, or at least ought to be,
than rich lords or retired railway-contractors.
Possibly he was on the right track there—but, not-
withstanding his proud position in the world of
intellect, we don’t think his declarations on the


subject of Oriental labour will shift the public
opinion of Australia thereon to any appreciable
extent.
The main ground on which this new “lord”
based his contention was to the effoc t that the
development of tropical regions by niggers or
Chinamen would furnish markets for Anglo-Saxons
liviog in temperate climates. If he had been ad-
dressing an audience of Manchester cotton-spin-
ners, Leeds shoddy-converters, and Brummagen
button-makers, no doubt this argument would
have been enthusiastically applauded, and very
naturally so. Even if he had been speaking to the
successful Jews, lucky speculators, impoverished
earls on the outlook for chances to lead their
names for good consideration to syndicate-con-
tractors, dissipated young dukes and oleaginous
ecclesiastics, of which heterogeneous material “ the
most august assembly in the world,” is for the
most part composed, the listening ears
would have drunk in his words with de-
light, But we Australians do not feel
in the least inclined to approve of a scheme the
only merit whereof oonsists in its furnishing in
posse a new market for British manufactures ;
and moreover wo have long since fully made up
our minds on the subject in question. This mat-
ter has been decided apart from any considera-
tion as to what the results measured in money
may be. The development of tropical Australia
by free white labour may prove a tedious and not
particularly wealth-producing process; yet that
alone is how the end is to be achieved. British
capitalists thirsting for profitable investments
mey chafe under the ordeal of losing a most
promising locale for their operations ; but that
will not affect the course of action that Aus-
tralia has determined upon, The people will
not tolerate the introduction of inferior races into
Australia under any pretence whatever. Brassey
may considerthisexcessively wrong-headed and im-
provident of the gifts of Nature, but that cannot
well be helped. Tne die is cast, and this noble
geutleman is too late with his advice. Within
our territorial boundaries Protection is our policy,
not Fro 3trade.
Thera are not wanting reasons of potency and
weight for the decision that has been made. In
the fir3t plaoe the colonists of the far north have
ample grounds for the boiief that they oan per-
form the iob they have undertaken without the
assistance Lord Brassey is so anxious they
should employ. The climate, though hot, is far
from unhealthy. Away from the thick jungles
and low-lying river banks Europeans labour quite
as hard as Hindoo coolies, yet are by no means
inconvenienced or oppressed by malaria or heat.
What Asiatic could be induced to toil like a North
Queensland miner? Yet the death-rate of Char-
ters Towers—the chief centre of gold-mining in
North Queensland—is far lower than in the
suburbs of Sydney. Those engaged in pastoral
pursuits are also remarkably healthy ; while even
residents on the lower reaches of such rivers as
the Burdekin, the Herbert, and the Norman are
not seriously affected by the olimate. It is true
that the sugar planters have argued with great
eloquenoe and untiring industry that white labour
is useh ss in the cane-field. But the sugar planters
are interested witnesses. They don’t want white
labour, because they have fixed their hearts
upon having the cheap labour of Hindoos or
Malays or Kanakas. They see, or fancy they can
see, a gain in employing blackfellows at a third of
the Co3t of white labour, and accordingly have
evolved quite a genius for inventing reasons for
holding that white labour in the cultivation of
sugar is impossible. Well the most the Queens-
anders will do is to allow a regulated introduc-
tion of kanakas for the sole purpose of employ-
ment in tropical agriculture, on the condition that
the men are returned to their homes after three
years’ service. For the rest, Queenslanders and
Southerners say, Perish the sugar industry ! By.
and-bye, however, when the colonies are united,
and when they have shaken off the Brasseys and
the Caringtons and all the rest of the “lords’’
and all the wretched drivellers who suffer under
the nightmare of what is euphemistically called
“political economy,” they will simply ask the
question of the sugar planters what it really costs
to produce sugar with the bone and sinews and
blood that alone they will tolerate ; and whatever
that cost is the colonies will bear it, and a fair
profit to the planters in addition. Australia is
bent on developing the sugar industry of the
North, but she means to do it in her own way, in
her own time, and with her own sons.
* * *
For —and here we com 3 to the underlying
stratum of the whole business—it is perceived
with the clearness of instinct that an extensive
influx of people of inferior races must of necessity
operate to deteriorate our own race—must, in the
long run, reduce us to a nation of mongrels, sub-
missive to the tyrannous sway of absentee
plutocrats. And the instinctive aversion of Aus-
tralians to be contaminated with Asiatics is justi-
fied on an appeal to reason and to faots. The
track of the coolie is marked everywhere by
bright-burning beacon-lights, warning us against
him as a plague and a curse. He brings nothing
with him when he comes, save a loin-cloth ; and
leaves nothing behind him when he goes save
leprosy, blood-stigma, and an example of servile
obedience, not to Law, nor to the dicta of natural
justice, but to whatsoever despotism of adequate
power chances to be at work. A handful of bully-
ing white nigger-drivers, with the mass of the
people ground down foi the sake of pandering to
the insatiable greed of capitalists luxuriating in
“ more temperate climates,” and steaming about
in “their own yachts ’ is invariably the state o
things following in the wake of Brassey s
• < Oriental labour. ” The people of A ustralia don’t
propose to incur the risk of having such a condi-
tion in their country. They are not over-sorupu-
lous as to who comes in to assist in the great
work of building up a nation, provided the in-
comers are of Caucasian blood. They are pre-
pared even to bear, for a season, with the con-
descensions of the Brasskvs, and sich. They
have thrown the gates wide open to all save nig-
gers and Chinamen. Against these they have
erected a barrier whioh they mean to maintain,
the opinions of itinerant lords to the contrary
notwithstanding.
The South Sydney Election.
Mr. B. R. Wise has won what he calls “ a
glorious victory for the cause of Freetrade.” A
big electorate was raked from end to end for the
Pro-trade Free-tection voters, and Parkes, Abi-
gail, and half-a-dozen more shining lights
came down to tout on the New South Wales
Attorney-General's behalf. When a similar de-
monstration was made at Mudgee on behalf of the
Protectionist party, the intruders were denounced
by Haynes, M.L A., as jackals, political mur-
derers, and hedge-assassins, but Haynes also
turned up on this occasion to act as jackal and
assassin to a Freetrade young man in bad com-
pany, and threw the influence of his polished
eloquence into the scale. The election, too, was
pressed through in such indecent haste that the
Protection candidate was only allowed three days
in which to canvass the district, and by these and
other devices Mr. Wise secured a shadowy
majority of 40 votes out of a total of nearly 5200
recorded. A result like this reminds us somehow
of another success of which we have rea 1. The
owner of the winning animal was wheeling his
particular bull-pup home in a barrow, and, like
Mr. Wise, he was boasting of the “ glorious vic-
tory ” he had won, His fighting mongrel couldn’t
walk home because it had two front legs and one
ear chawed off and its larynx eaten out. It was
a dilapidated animal of this kind that Mr. Wise
wheeled homo from the battle-field on Saturday
night. # «
The last general election was won upon false
pretences. Parkes’ political promissory notes are
already being dishonoured. He has only managed
to renew the South Sydney one by paying interest
at the rate of Waxman per shent. For probably
the last time he has managed to dodge the reckon-
ing for which a betrayed colony is clamouring.
Every available engine of political and sectarian
malice was called into requisition; the non-
producing civil servants in the Government
offices were granted a holiday with full pay in the
knowledge that most of them would doubtless
vote the Government ticket; while the men at the
National Park who, as proletariats and produ-
cers, were certain to vote for the cause of local in-
dustry, were bluffed off from attending the poll
by the intimation that their absence would involve
deprivation of wages ; the Orangemen were sum-
moned by advertisement to vote the freetrade
ticket, and Abigail and Co. were busy as usual
in hunting up unreasoning fanatics and bidding
them remember that their religion was in danger.
The shade of Dutch William stalked through the
slums of South Sydney, and while the disciples of
the dead-and-gone monarch were appealing to the
meanest and narrowest of human passions the
Freetraders mendaciously accused their opponents
of having lioen the first to import the sectarian
element into the contest. “ The famishing hawks
of Protection and Popery,” according to the Sydney
D.T., rallied up in support of Protection, and all
through the contest language of this kind was
employed by the Parkss faction in the hope of
rousing the dregs of the people to acts of fury and
lawlessness. The attempt was happily crowned
with little success, but Mr. Wise ha 3 good reason
to be ashamed of the falsehood and brutal bigotry
with which a few of his supporters endeavoured
to prop his cause. The example of Victoria has
long since proved that Protection rests on no
creed and requires no sectarian support. In Mel-
bourne the Orange and the Roman vote are
equally solid in the national cause, and such men
as J. B. Patterson —than whom there is no
fiercer Orangeman under heaven or over sheol—
sit side by side with enthusiastic “Papists "and
sink religious differences in their desire to pro.
mote the advancement' of the colony they are
privileged to serve.
• » *
But if Mr. Wise’s su portera were indiscreet,
he was himself almost equally so. In the hour of
his triumph he gave away both himself and his
party in one sentence. “ The cause of the manu-
facturers has been defeated," he cried, as if un-
conscious that this is also of necessity the cause
of every man who not merely wants cheap goods
but wants work to earn the money wherewith to
buy them, and who cannot find employment in
unloadingnigger-manned ships at Sydney wharves.
So little does the Attorney-General know of
economic problems that even his manful adver-
sary’s position as a “discriminating Protec jonist”
was beyond his narrow comprehension. Probably
had he himself been defined as a “ discrimi-
nating Freetrader’’—as anybody attached
to the Parkes Ministry must neoessarily
be—he would have repudiated the designation
with scorn and plumed himself on the faot that he
went the whole indiscriminate animal—in short
that he had no discrimination at all. Yet
the Freetrader, pure and simple, if such
a being does anywhere exist, must be pre-
pared to vote for free trade in law and in China-
men and in coloured labour from the South Seas
ns well as in foreign silks and luxuries, and even
Wise dare not, for the sake of his reputation and
his seat, go so far as this. With a contemptuous
sneer he classified the “discriminating Protec-
tionist” and the discriminating burglar in one and
[ the same category. His opponent might have
eompleted the parallel by de3oribing the Attorney-
General himself as a diseriminating gentleman who
carried his principles only so far as they did not
injure 4 his own pocket.
The Sydney D.T. professes to imagine that the
result of the South Sydney election will be to
make the Government go straight, and if it is
possible to teach a crab to keep a direct line, it is
just possible that his narrow escape from an actual
defeat may lead even Parkes to abandon jobbery
and keep at least a few of his many promises
But this negative result seems to be about all that
is hoped for from Mr. Wise’s election. The New
South Wales Assembly is already too much over-
run with lawyers, and the lawyer is the natural
enemy of the people. The return of one more
addition to the ranks of the political vultures and
cormorants, who already muster so strongly in the
New South Wales Legislature, is not a victory to
be grateful for. Outside his profession, Mr. Wise
is chiefly known as a man who onoe ran a mile in
very fast time at an English University, his slen-
der figure not offering much resistance to the wind.
His political mind being built on the same meagre
scale as his body, offers little resistance to argu-
ment, and a very small surface for attack but his
speed of foot will serve him well in the coming
Freeirade stampode. It is j ust about a mile from
South Sydney to the East Sydney polling-place—
the only spot in the colony at which, within (say)
the next three years, a candidate of the young
Attorney-General’s opinions is at all likely to be
elected.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Don’t Nail His Ears to the Pump!”
During the time the Redmond Brothers were
vainly striving to plead the cause of Ireland be-
fore the bar of public opinion in Australia—were
striving to conduct a peaceful and constitutional
agitation amongst the citizens of one part of the
British Empire in favour of those of another,
they were dogged unrelentingly by the Australian
daily pres 3 with a cry that they were firebrands
endeavouring to sow amongst the people of these
lands seeds of the strife and dissensions of Great
Britain and Ireland, Ignorant and fanatic men
were mildly cautioned not to put the Irish advo-
cates under the pump ; but day after day it was
plainly hinted that some such treatment was
richly deserved. The hints were taken, and thus
men, whose sole fault was that they hid come to
crave under the tegis and within the spirit
and letter of the vaunted British Constitution, the
practical help and sympathy of their fellow
countrymen residing in this portion of the Queen s
dominions for the cause of their brethren in
another portion, were fieroely abused; were
threatened with violence ; were denied the use of
almost every public hall, and were in every pos
sible way debarred the right of free speech. Time
rolled on, and with it a change took place in the
public mind. Men who had formerly thought it
fashionable to abuse Ireland and all her deeds,
began to speak the name of Home Rule without
a curse, while faint-hearted sympathisers sought
to proclaim their sentiments on the house-tops. It
was no longer a question of hiding behind the
scenes. The daily press took the cue. It always
sides with the strong. Leading articles came
forth inquiring why Ireland should not have the
same right to a I’arliament of her own as any of
the many other portions of the Empire
whieh enjoyed that privelege. But the tide
has ebbed again. There is no longer a
prospect of Gladstone being immediately
invested with the sceptre of power. He and his
are under the fierce ban of all that represents the
wealth, fashion, and rank of Britain, and hence
the miserable plutocracy of Australia ever faith-
ful to the worship of that which is pleasing to the
royal and aristocratic coteries of Britain have
inoe more begun to move, in the representatives
of their opinions, against the cause 0 f Ireland.
Hence it is that we tee the Sydney daily Press
floating under a thin veil over the outrages in-
dicted on an Irish leader by bands of brutal
bigots in Canada. Had OBrien gone to that
colony to tell the people there that they should
spend their substance in jubilating over the fact
that a respectable old lady had reigned for 50
years ; had he gone to ask them to strengthen the
sway of a faineant court and aristocracy ; had he
gone to agitate for the extension of the privileges
of the English State Church to Canada ; had he
gone to ask the Canadians to give up the best
prerogatives of their native Parliament to that of
Westminister; had he gone to induce the Cana-
dians to spend their blood and treasure in riveting
the yoke of England on Burmah ; or had he, in
short, gone to preach any doctrine of Toryism, and
to advocate any mingling of Canada in old world
questions bound up with the fate of caste and
privilege, he would have been received
with triumphal honours by aristocrat, plutoc at,
and make-believe democrat. But he did not. He
went in the name of a people to tell to the free-
men of the West the tale of the wrongs of an out-
raged land, and to claim their assistance as fellow-
subjects of the same Empire, in the struggle which
is being waged against great odds of the poor
against the rich, of right against might, of
Liberalism against Toryism, and of liberty of
speech and honestly representative government
against brute force and coercion. This is where-
fore O'Brien was stoned, and not as our daily
Press falsely asserts, because his only mission was to
induce Canada to mix herself up in old world
feuds. Let those who doubt behold the reception
of your gilded calf, “Lord” Brassey, who comes to
these free and peaceful lands to preach Imperialism
and to laud the spirit whereby Australian blood
and treasure would be lavished in support of causes
with which the Australian Republic would have
nought to do. Then turn and behold a lonely man
vainly pleading apeople's cause surrounded by howl-
ing mobs of infuriated bigots, hounded on, no doubt,
by such a Press a 3 oura to a spirit of murder.
“ Do not put him under the pump,” and stones
for the man who pleads the inherent right of men
o be governed for themselves and by i hemselves ,
“ Our Distinguished Visitor” and banquets and
picnics to him who comes as the missionary of
Caste and Imperialism.
The Glorified Heaton.
There are many men in Sydney, and perhaps
many more in the remote back-blocks, who re-
member that supernal news-agent Mr. J. Henni
ker Heaton, who has now achieved distinction as
brother in law to a big Sydney newspaper concern
But Henniker is a man who is not content with
so modest a niche in the Joss-house of lame I He
learned enough while concocting sanguinary Sydney
tram pars, to fully appreciate the almost incalcul*
able benefits of extensive advertising. He] went
to England. He got somebody to discover a
genealogy tracing his descent back to a Lord
Heton, who was famous for Heaven knows what
—besides being a lord. Ho gave a cheque to the
cause of furthering Home Rule for Ireland. He
radiated as a Tory member of the House of Commons.
Still the insatiable Henniker rested not. He
began to pull the wires; to work the cable; to re-
furbish the ocean-postage vagaries of the defunct
Eunu Burritt— of whom, to do him all possible
justice, he perhaps had never heard. With his
modicum of brain-power he manages to carve out
a place and a status for himself. He becomes a
Somebody. The glittering gilded peasant, erst-
while of ErcildouDe, Victoria, and now of Hughen-
den, England, facetiously yclept “ Sir Salmon,” is
still a nobody. The introduction of salmon ovee into
Australia, the building of a Wilson Hall—
Haul would do as well —in connection with the Mel-
bourne University, his residence in tbe historic
mansion sanctified by its associa ion with the
Primrose Quack, his membership of the House of
Commons, notwithstanding, “ Sir Salmon ”
Wilson remains a Nobody, while Mr. J.
Henniker Heaton ealmly, but by no means
unostentatiously proceeds to clamber up the
rooster-perch of glory in the enraptuied gaze of
awe-stricken Europe. In a current number of the
Pall Mall Gazette appears an advertisement in
which is loudly trumpeted the fact that the P.M.
Budget is rendered seductive and attractive by
contributions from Mr. W. E. Gladstone, the
Archbishop of Dublin (Dr. R. C. Trench), Sir
George Trevelyan, Bart., Mr. Frederic Har-
rison, Mr. Andrew Lang, Mr. Michael Davitt,
and—whisper it not within cooey of the Down
and Gumtree Jernil office—Mr, Henniker
Heaton ! Now it will ever remain a dark and
dreadful mystery how Henniker ever got
into such dazzling, not to say famous, company. The
first Greek layman of his age, the G 0. M., the
Trench of philology and word-craft, the Trevel-
yan who achieved European reputation with
his “Life of Macaulay,” the Harrison who
wrestles so ably with Matthew Arnold and
who figures as the exponent of Positivism in this
present century, the Lang whose light artistic
touch has justly entitled him to the designation of
the graceful essayist and lyric poet of the ultra-
refinement of to-day, the Davitt whose masculine
and nervous English has thrown the garb of
literary expression over the vulgar details of
commonplace prison life, and —Mr. Henniker
Heaton, of the Djwn and Gumtree Jernil!
How in thunder does he do it? Simply by employ-
ing to the best advantage the small portiun of
brains with which he is endowed. By a little
native cleverness the despised Sydney slaughter-
paragraph scribe is able to be advertised in an ex-
tensively-circulated English paper in the same
breath with the ablest writers and strongest
thinkers of a highly cultivated nation, famed alike'
for high thought and elegant expression. And
yet they in England affect to despise the colonies!
Bah ! There must be something in colonial ex-
perience which the Britisher has made no allow-
ance for.
A Level-headed Merchant.
Here is an extract from a letter addressed to Mr.
T. Williams, chairman of the Paddington Pro-
tection League, by a level-headed Sydney mer-
chant, Mr. Jas. A. Roberts :
“ As you know, I am thoroughly in accord with
the views of the League, and hold that until we
get protection on such articles as can be made in
the colony, many men mus; remain unemployed,
factories be idle, and trade dull. Sydney just now
is the commercial cesspit of Europe and America.
“ Rubbish can be shot heie ” should be written as
a sign, from North to South Head. What a cry
there would be if our prison labour were brought
into competition with our free labour ; and yet
our Freetrade friends rub their hands with glee to
see imported buggies, &c. (made no doubt by
prison labour in America), sold in the auction-
rooms at prices a Sydney manufacturer could not
buy the raw material for here. It is to the in-
terests of merchants to support Protection—if they
only knew it. The more people employed and money
circulated, the better for them. It is just as easy
to import the raw material to supply factories
here, as to import the manufacturrd article. Your
speakers cannot too strongly expose the Freetrade
fallacy that Protection (eventually) increaies the
costof goods. If it does, why is flour, andwhyareaff
the necessaries of life, cheaper in Melbourne than
in Sydney? Are not nine out of ten of all the
artizans of Melbourne owners of their little cot
tage, instead of tenants, as here ? Even supposing
wages per day were not so high (which I dispute),
is it not far better for the working man to have
shorter hours, and regular work from beginning
to end of the year, than as here —at work one
week, and idle the next ? However, Mr. Wise,
and the rest of the Freetraders, may just as well
do as other women have done —try to stop the
tide, as stop the march or Protection. Manhood
suffrage and Protection go hand in hand, and the
eyes of the people are be mg rapidly opened. The
results of debate i in the various Chambers of
Commerce at home, where a motion advocating
a protective policy was only lost by one vote or
so, tells its own tale.—Yours truly, Jas. A,
Roberts. —Sydney, 4th May.
The Barrister’s G-reed.
Water-jug Foster’s candid statement that his
family would be “ seriously inconvenienced ” by
his remaining in office in the New South Wales
Government at a salary of £ISOO a year was the
text of a leader which appeared in the S.M.
Herald the other day. It is evident that the
article in question was written by a fledgling bar-
rister or by a briefless one wro has plenty of time
to write nonsense. It is unreasonable to suppose
that any one of the divines of the Hehald staff—
notwithstanding that they have had so stiff a
course of training in writing up Conservative
ideas —would commit himself to such arrant stu-
pidity. The contention that the Attorney-General
is underpaid at £ISOO a year is one which could
emanate only from the mind of an individual who
is instinctively tainted with the professional idea
that a barrister is the only person in the com-
munity who should be paid handsomely for doing
nothing. The duties of the Attorney-General are
merely nominal—the successive holders of the
office have taken good care that this should be the
case. The office in n. way interferes with the
private practice isf the holder of it ; on the con-
trary, it must have a tendency to improve his
position, as he comes in for a large amount of
gratuitous advertising as an offset to the fact that
he is restricted to the acceptance of only
leading briefs. If the Attorney-General were
to perform the duties which are supposed to
attach to the office, perhaps he would not be over-
paid at £ISOO a year ; but, of oourse, that would,
depend on his statu- at the Bar. How often does
the Attorney-General appear to conduct an im-
portant case for the Crown ? He may occisionally
appear in his official character at a country
assize, but his appearance there usually signifies


that he has a “,fat” brief 1 on the civil side.
Under the existing arrangement the Attorney-
General is simply an ornamental head of a depart-
ment The whole of the routine legal work of
the Government is done bv the Crown Solicitor
and his staff, and the important court work in
which the Government is interested is done by the
modest Mr. Salomons, whose “honorarium”
amounts to between £2OOO and £3OOO a year.
Practically the Attorney-General draws £ISOO a
year for answering a few questions in Parliament
and making an occasional speech, yet notwith-
standing this he always figures as an uncom-
promising opponent of the principle of payment of
members. To bolster up its weak case the Herald
referred to the fact that the Attorney-General of
England is the recipent of a salary of £7OOO a
year—more than that received by any other
cabinet minister. To argue from this fact that
the Attorney-General in Sydney ought to receive
a larger salary than any other member of the
Government is as reasonable as it would be to
contend that the Governor ought to receive as
much pay as the Queen gets. The writer of the
article in question is attempting to draw an
analogy bet ween the positions of the Attorneys-
General of England and New South Wales dis-
plays his ignorance of the nature of the duties of
the former as compared with those of the latter.
For a long time past the Herald has been preach-
ing retrenchment in the cost of Government, but,
of course, it would be radically wrong to think of
applying such a doctrine to any one conned ed
with the fat-feds profession. There would be
sound sense in abolishing the office of Attorney-
General, or in dispensing with Mr. Salomons’
services as legal adviser to the Grown and com-
pelling the Attorney-General to do the work.
The Sydney Jubilee Knight-Mayor.
There is a municipal proposal on the Sydney
Corporation carpet to cram the vacant craws of
all the little foodless children in the metropolitan
area in honour of the 54,750 meals—at the rate of
three per diem —that Her Gracious has stowed
away since her accession to England's grand,
glorious, worm-eaten throne. Sydney’s respectable
Knight-Mayor rose to the occasion and squatted
down on the combined chest of concrete alder-
manic grovel in a manner worthy of the genius of
the architect of a £5 bale of miscellaneous millinery.
Sir Alban (“ as is to be ”) J. Riley grew quite
pathetic, and his voice tore its way through a
solid stratum of splenic sorrow as he alluded to
the niggardliness of the City Council in allowing
only £250 to revive that historical rum-bottle with
its legendary rush light in the clock-tower of the
Town Hall, which proved suoh a brilliant success
from an illuminatory point of view last year, and
which brought to its orignator, “ Sir ” John
Young, his “ knight’s” well-earned reward. The
Mayor very properly remarked that so good an
opportunity for improving the occasion upon the
minds of “babes and sucklings” should not be
lost. This celebration, he considered, was an
“ event of such importance that it might lie Im-
pressed upon the minds of the young especially.”
Right again Mr.—we beg pardon—Sir Alban,
nothing like teaching the young idea how to—
grovel- The “Juvenile Jubilee Ball” did the
thing for the small fry of the upper “succles,”
and a charity gorge to the youngsters of the mere
proletariat will do the thing for them. Even in
Sydney—the capital of that glorious freetrade
colony of New South Wales—there are a lot of
children of the poor who never get a square feed.
Their wretched fathers grubbing scrub or bush
lands at ss. a day, have little to divide amongst a
large family, and thus these unfortunate little
wretches are early taught that fawning and feed-
ing, gorge and grovel, are convertible terms. But
Sydney’s Knight-Mayor is not going to stop at
this :
“ He might Bay that he himself intended to give good
cheer to the inmates of a number of charitable institutions,
so that they might be able in some way to participate in the
general rejoicing, and he thought it would be a good thing if
the citizens of Sydney entertained the children, as through
them they would get at the parents. His idea wsb to
assemble all the school and other children of the city at a
gathering in the Prince Alfred Park, to last, say, from 9.30
a.m. to 2 p.m., to have them sing the National Anthem,
leaving ample time for those who wished it to witness the
illuminations.”
Oh ! yes, by all means let them sing the National
Anthem, and “ God Preserve the Empress,” and
all that sort of Tommv rot. 1 hen let the poor
little brats go to the Town Hall and view the
illuminations —the ill-painted daub of the fat lady
in the gold crown and red velvet robes, and the
tawny-bearded Prince with his broad purple face,
oh, yes ! let them learn early to associate Queens
and Princes with something to eat —no doubt it is
as near the mark as truth can hope to get. The
Mayor next remarked :
■ ‘ He wished it to be understood that when he took the
lrigh position of Mayor he knew that it would be the Jubilee
year, and therefore for him an expensive one. He was not a
rich man, nor didjie wish to squander what he had ; but he
wanted the < ity to be properly represented, and he did not
think the citizens at this, a great national festival, desired
that their Mayor should bear the brunt of the expense. He
had called them together to get from them an expression of
opinion, and he thought on such occasions that something
should be done for the benefit of the poor and aged and to
impress the celebration upon the minds of the rising genera-
tion He reckoned that £SBO would suffice to entertain
lo.UOU children, and he knew that outside monetary aid he
could get help in kind from a large number of ladies and
gentlemen. ’’
We take Sir Alban’s word for it. No doubt he
thoroughly knew what he was about, Tnis year
will probably be very expensive to the Mayor,
but then you see it is only a delegate to the Im-
perial Conference who can get a K.C.M.G.-ship
for nothing. Why should not the “ city fathers”
bear the brunt of the expense ? If they, or the
majority of them, have made up their alleged
minds that they will only be perfectly happy by
doing a £250 bale of grovel to a elderly lady whom
they have never seen, and whose footman would
probably spurn them with a patricianly menial
sneer, let them do it at their own co3t! Of course,
we thought that the Mayor knew the value of
ribbon better than he apparently does, but that is
his look-out. At all events, if he wants to buy
ribbon wholesale he must be prepared to pay the
wholesale price for it. There are, however, a
number of people who will not see the Mayor
“left.” One benevolent party wrote “ Put me
down for what you like ! ” It would be interest-
ing to know what some of the donors to the
Knight-Mayor charity gorge wrote to the collecting
committee of the Bulli Colliery Disaster Fund !
The Mayor’s notion of pauper juvenile jubilee hap-
piness is a bag containing fruit, lollies, and
whisper it not in the precincts of the Conventicle
—Jubilee buns ! After the youngsters tire suffi-
ciently inliated, they will probably be filled up
with Imperial ginger-beer, and will then feel so
full that they will not he hungry until the next
Jubilee—which will celebrate the first fifty years
of the Republic of the Australian Federated States
Union. But the “boss” proposal in this connec-
tion, like a postscript to a lady’s letter, comes in
at the close. Let us seal the darling little crea-
tures’ triumphal entry into the region of grovel
and flummery with the presentation of a “ Jubilee”
medal; they are very cheap, costing only £6 per
thousand. The idea is a good one, but we have a
better! Why go to the expense of buying
“ Jubilee ” medals f A branding-iron is cheaper.
MR. W. H. TRISTAN.
Editor of the Seymour (Vic.) Express.
The sign of the golden calf neatly burnt into the
forehead, or into the region of the epigastrium,
would keep them in constant and life-long re
membrance of the event.
“ High-Principled” Foster.
Last month W. J. Foster resigned his portfolio
in the New South Wales Cabinet on the groun
that Premier Parkes’ regard fm u-uild'ulness wa.
not up to his standard. He averred that Parkes
had given him a distinct promise that he should
have a judgeship whenever one was vacant, and
the non-fulfilment of this promise when the oppor-
tunity occurred he viewed as involving a for-
feiture of hi 9 confidence. So far, so good. The
public, ourselves included, were not unnaturally
delighted to observe such an admirable exhi-
bibition of high principle and independence.
Foster evidently could not for a moment asso-
ciate himself with a man capable of deviating a
hair's-breadth from the truth. He stated in the
Assembly that, Washington like, he never told a
lie, and his nature would not permit of his
having anything whatsoever to do with one guilty
of such an offence—not even if the salvat’on of
his dear country depended on the connection.
The country might go to the devil, but his exalted
sense of that which alone shames the devil must
not be impaired. This was most hopeful ; and
we began to think we had all along wronged
Foster in writing him down a man with righteous-
ness on his lip 3 and self-seeking in his heart. We
rejoiced muoh over the saving of a supposed lost
soul. But we whistled in our glee too soon.
Foster, it now appears, resigned the Attorney-
Generalship, not, as we were led to believe, be-
cause his fine nature abhorred prevarication, but
because he didn’t get the billet he coveted. On
Tuesday week Foster went to the New Masonic
Hall, and strongly advocated the claims of Wise
on the electors of South Sydney, his contention
reßtiDg on the fact that Wise had joined the
Ministry of Parkes, who, he declared, was “ the
only man capable of controlling the destinies of
the country with adx antage.” Interrupted by an
elector, who asked " What about the judgeship? ’
Foster answered that that was a private affair
which had nothing to do with his duty to the
community. He was in duty bound to support
Parkes, since Parkes was the one man able to
save the colony from wreck. Now, Mr. Half-Judge
Foster, permit us to say that you stand before the
country in about the paltriest and most contemptible
character possible for a public man to assume,
You are convicted out of your own mouth of being
a selfish place-hunter ; and no more. You had no
sooner got into office as Attorney-General than
you began to haggle and bargain with Parkes
about a judgeship. Parkes no doubt made you a
promise of the first x acancy, and he broke it —for
reasons of importance to him, which you ought
to have respected, if, that is, you thought him
“ the only man capable of controlling the destinies
of the country.’ But you abandoned the Ministry
on the ground that you could no longer
have, confidence in Parkes, whom you charged
with one of the vilest of offences. Then,
alter the elapse of a week or so, you
discover that another judgeship is about to be
created, and forthwith you avow the belief that
the man unfit to be associated with by so
pure-minded a creature as yourself in May is the
only salvation for the country in June ! Yet you
are to be a Judge 1 You, sir, who stand convicted
of unparalleled self-seeking and tergiversation,
aspire to crawl from the ignoblest seat in the
court of public opinion to the highest seat in the
court of Justice; and probably your aspiration
will be gratified, for, luckily for you, such is the
depravity of politics under your ‘ ‘ only man
capable of controlling the destinies of the country"
that, if his temporary convenience is subserved
by appointing you lo the bench, appointed you
will be.
♦
The Federated Chinaman, A tain.
The Parkes Administration, which has already
cast in its lot with many strange adherents, now
bids for tlie support.of the Chinaman. A Mongol
trader at Wentworth lately crossed the South
Australian border, but, declining to pay the poll-
tax on the ground that he had already been levied
upon in New South Wales, he was arrested and
sent to prison. Burns, however, has resolved
to get this Asiatic out or swim in gore on his be-
half, and he further proposes that an arrangement
should be arrived at on federal principles, by
which a Chinaman, after paying the duty levied
on his villainous yellow face at the port of land-
ing, should be free of all the other colonies of the
Australian group. In other words, he desires
that, in the event of a new and profitable gold-
field being discovered in New South Wales,
every facility ih< u'd be given to every
Mongol, from the Gulf to the u termost point
of Van Dieman’s Land, to flock thither
and take possession of the new-found wealth.
The Chinamen, like the angels, goes flying light
in the matter of baggage : he has no home to
bleat up, no wife or children to provide for, no
ties.' and no encumbrances ; he is only a dirty yel-
low phantom gliding from place to place, and
though he never ptospects for new mineral do-
posits but waits patiently to reap the reward of
other men’s enterprise, these invaluable qualities
generally enable him to keep ahead of the great
mass of white Australian diggers. When a dispute
arises in any part of this continent between the
opposing forces of capital and labour his locomo-
tive character again brings him to the front, and
he is promptly on the spot to undersell his
white competitors in any and every branch
of employment. Occasionally, however, this
unclean bird of passage is stopped at the
frontier and hampered in his mission by a
difficulty regarding the poll-tax. but Burns
hopes shortly to remove this disability and make
his heathen pro;egi- as free as air. The people of
New South Wales, however, are hardly likely to
sympa'hise with this view of the case. The
Chioaman, they consider, should be taxed for his
yellow face, and for the evil qualities of which it
is the symbol, and they are not inclined to enter
into sentimental questions regarding the rights ef
citizenship. Moreover, New South Wales has
stood aloof from the Australian Federation, and
thus denied her own sons any privileges which it
might have conferred, and in view of this it seems
strange that there should be such anxiety to
federate for the benefit of the Chinaman. In
common decency Parkes and Burns might look
after the white man first.
MR. THOMAS STILL,
Editor of the Jamieson (Vic.) CHRONICLE.
A Jubilee Crime.
A new crime, styled “ unhorsing a trooper," has
made its appearance in New South Wales, in
honour, evidently, of her Gracious Majesty's, &c.,
&c. On Queen’s Birthday, Governor Carington
thought lit to celebrate the occasion with a review
of the “ forces,” and, of course, the Sydney Light
Horse were to the fore as an escort of his Excel-
lency. The troop of cavalry in question present a
very brave appearance to the eye, but unfor-
tunately these warriors and their steeds have a
tendency to part company on the slightest pro-
vocation, and very often on no provocation
at all. An Oxford-street grocer, unaware of
this peculiarit y of Sydney Light Horsemanship,
ventured with his cart within six yards of a
trooper, whereupon the animal ridden by the
latter reared, and the trooper fell off. occasioning
no little delight to the “ civilian ” spectators as
he, with all his gorgeous millinery, rolled in the
mud. For being indirectly the cause of this mis-
hap the grocer was last week adjudged guilty of
an offence meriting a fine of £5 and costs, with the
option of a month in prison 1 The functionary who
inflicted this penalty was not one of the “ great un
paid,” but a hireling of the Government— one of
the stipendiary magistrates created by Parkes as a
means towards the millennium. Why was this
grocer so heavily fined and given so severe an
option ? He certainly had as much right to the
street as the inexpert horseman whose absurd
uniform was besmirched. In one sense he had
more. He was pursuing an honest calling for the
support of his family, whereas the ridiculous
person who was masquerading as a horse-soldier
was fulfilling no such admirable mission. Fur-
thermore, the evidence went to show that the
grocer had full control over the horse he drove,
while the trooper, on his part, could not manage
his war-animal more conveniently than a castj
away in mid-ocean can manage a whale. If any’
body ought to have been mulct, it was the
trooper, or Carington himself —the former for
getting outside of a horse on any excuse ; the
latter for taking such a tagrag and bobtail set of
Johnny Gilpins up the street with him as the—
aw, “ Lanceahs.” However we are glad Vic-
toria’s Jubilee has been commemorated by the
addition of a new and unheard-of offence to the
category of crimes punishable by fine and im-
prisonment.
Until last week the Victorians were happy in the
belief that they had found an out-and-out object
of worship in Frederick Maskell, the self-
sacrificing driver of their Brighton “ express.”
The “hero Gordon" was fairly worn threadbare,
and “our gallant Maskell" was a godsend to
the gushers who use dead men for advertising
purposes. They wrote loDg letters to the dailies,
pointing out that Maskell braved death rather
than lose his grip of the brake—that he knew
what would be the awful results of so doing, and
“died that others might live.” Every parson in
the colony preached about “ the engine-driver who
passed away while doing his duty ” —who refused
to leave his brake, aware that everything de-
pended on his holding tight. It is am ungracious
thing, perhaps, to throw cold water on the ser-
vice <f) which poor Maskell did in the moment of
need, but when it comes <as it has) to holding him
up as a contrast to many drivers who have
“jumped” before a collision, justice demands
that the situation should be understood. The
situation was understood by experts all along, but
it was not for experts to write to papers and ex-
plain what was bound to come out at the coroner's
enquiry. The Westinghouse brake is applied by
one quick turn of a handle, and it then acts of
itself. A professional witness at the enquiry
stated, in answer to Mr. Purves, that there was
nothing to prevent Maskell jumping for his life
after he had turned the handle to which he so un-
fortunately held on. It is no disparagement to
Maskell’s pluck to say that the eulogised” death
grip ” is to be deplored, and it is only fair to
assume that he died because he hadn t time to
think of jumping. In the case of the stoker,
M'Nab, bracketed with Maskell as a hero, there
is every reason to suppose that he lost his presence
of mind, for he had no raison d’etre on the engine
when a collision was seen to be inevitable. The
gushers have commenced to hunt after a new
fetish, so, as a live hero is better than a dead
hero, it may suit them to canonise one of the lal ely
maligned engine-drivers—one who has turned on
the make and jumped, all within three or four
seconds. (It is now slated, by the guard of the
Brighton express, that poor Maskell never put
on his brake at all.]
Henry Hart Lazarus, charged with putting
Harrison and Attwood's signature to a promis-
sory note for £375, was remanded on bail at
Sydney Water Police Court last week. His bail
amounted to £2OO, leaving a balance of £175 as a
slight inducement to skedaddle. In a case of
stealing a small article, the bail is sometimes
fixed at several times the value. The stipendiary
magistrate who fixed the bail for Lazarus appears
to possess a greater consideration for respecta
bility than fer justice.
Bishop Goe. you do not strike us favourably.
What do you want in the Melbourne University
Council ? In what respects have you proved your
erudition, apart from Church matters, to be up to
the standard which people have a right to expect?
Why, in the Church itself you are behind your
predecessor as much as a fossil man is behind a
live lawyer. We want all the new learning for
these new countries, not the obsolete system of
middle ages gentility, and certainly we have no
desire to see Australian Universities ruled by the
religious element. There is more than enough
old fogeyism on hand already, and quite a surplus
of theological classicism. What the Universities
do require is a better supply of guides who take
an interest in science proper and know where to
look for the best ex pounders of it. And do you
profess to have that qualification !
The affluent Shepherd J eeperis, of Sydney, lias
been discoursing on the topic “ How to be Merry
and Wise,” and a poor devil of a sceptic who is
out of work and who is crowded up with his sick
wife and hungry children in a one-roomed shanty
in Camperdown writes to the Sydney D.T. asking
for a little further information on the point. As
the pastor has a fair salary (about £l2OO a year)
and is a. disciple of One who never kept a' red
cent, he has no doubt gone out with a, £lO-note
and explained the matter to the man on the lee
shore. If he has failed to do so, however, the
hungry one might apply to Jefferis’ next door
neighbour, the theatre and public-house sinner.
He may get less heavenly gas there, but, on the
whole, he will have an excellent show of getting
help from John Solomon, bookmaker and show-
man.
Gaunson and Purves, shining lights of the Senate
and the Bar, have been letting off t heir larrikinism
at the Melbourne Railway-smash inquest. It is
THE JUBILEE “BULLETIN.”
TO NEWS AGENTS AND THE PUBLIC.
rno keep pace with the times, The Bulletin will Jubilate in a specially gorgeous issue
I bearing date June 18, 1887. A Mammoth Edition will be printed, but in view of the
extensive demand which has already set in, agents are requested to forward their orders early.
Agents at a distance will please wire.
The Bulletin, The Bulletin,
The Journalistic Javelin,
The paper all the humour’s in,
The paper every rumour’s in,
The paper to inspire a grin,
The Bulletin, The Bulletin,


the proud boast of both these firebrands that they
are “ born natives,” but if all natives were bom
their way the race would pretty soon be broken
up into little bits. That these two men—possess-
ing plenty of perverted tslent—claim to be types
of YouDg Australia would set us seriously think-
ing, but for one reassuring circumstance. They
strike one rathei as secondhand types of that
coarse Old Australia which is fast wearing out.
A recent cable to Sydney from London states
that “rabbit-skin stocks are not equal to trade
requirements. Prices are 3d. higher for all sorts.”
Here is a fresh fiscal illustration for the Free-
traders. Rabbits can easily be raised, even the
expense of boundary-riding avoided, and no labour
is required to shepherd them. There is a foreign
demand for this particular sort of colonial-raised
raw material, and the only cost incurred is in
shooting and skinning the rabbits. The whole
colony of New South Wales might be profitably
laid down as a rabbit-run and managed by a
bunny syndicate and a small battalion of the army
of the “ unemployed” utilised at 3s. 9d. a day as
rabbit-catchers. Look at the enormous advantage
which would accrue to the colony. The industry
which requires a wage expenditure of only 2s. out
of every £l-worth of material produced, must be
over so much more beneficial to the community
that one expending in wages 10s. of every Hi-
worth produced. In fact, the industry which
could be run for 6d. in the £ would simply top the
catalogue
Sydney H.T. is the first to “ turn dog ” on Free-
trade and the importing monopolists. It says :
” We are not among those who deny that any good can
come out of the Protectionist Nazareth. We admit that
under given circumstances strong arguments might be ad-
vanced in favour of the theory of Protection and against that
■o-f Freetrade, as there might be, for instance, in favour of
the American or German forms of constitutional govern-
ment a- contrasted with the English constitution.”
The D.T. might kindly explain the “ given cir-
cumstances ” under which it will be prepared to
recognise the strength of Protectionist argument.
Perhaps a long Government advertisement from a
Protectionist Ministry is what the gospel-ridden
sheet is driving at. “ We are not among those who
deny that any good can come out of the Protec-
tionist Nazareth ! ” Holy Moses! Freetrade
Secretary Pui.skord just listen to them now /"
The present New South Wales Freetrade cry is—
- ‘ You Protectionists want to put out Parkes.
Suppose you do defeat him, where are the Pro-
tectionists with whom you could occupy the Trea-
sury benches ?” Well, the answer is so easy that
The Bulletin at once proceeds to forecast the
Protectionist Government of the near future
Premier, Sir H. Parkes, who was a Protectionist
when it suited him. Treasurer, Cocky Burns,
with his tobacco, bacon, and butter protective
duties. Attorney-General, Rinqnose Wise, with
Jhis “ bounties ”to colonial industries. Minister
of Mines, Frawncis Habiole, who in Feb., 1884,
declared that Protection had never raised prices
■anywhere, and was the one thing needful in New
South Wales. As we have forgiven him the £25
he lost to us, we--will now say nothing offensive
about it. Minister for Works, Sutherland, with
.his handsome “encouragement” to the locomotive
industry. Minister of Education Garrett, with
his “red-hot, burning brand of shame, which can
merer be effaced,” and his able advocacy of Pro-
tection at Camden less than a year ago. Minister
for Jus’ice, " Ginger ” Clarke, with his hay-and-
•corn duties. Postmaster-General, Roberts, also
•of the hay-and-corn party. Tiger Inglis, unfor-
tunately, might have to go, but the rest of the
Protectionist Ministry are all there, aud when a
Protectionist majority sits in the House they will
have merely to say, * Parkes, old man, go
ahead,” and the organ will grind cheerily away
to the new tune without any trouble worth speak-
dug of.
The outrage business is getting used up in Sydney.
It was started by sweet young girls in ringlets
and smiles, and loose principles, each of whom
wore a tall hat with a bird-corpse in the front,
and who, even when they were bowled out, could
retire gracefully after weeping a bucketful and
snuffle out of Court with a white handkerohief
applied to one eye. Then they would either go
into a convent, or into the escaped nun business,
•or else would dart round the corner and swing on a
.gate with a dozen larrikins and pour out blas-
,phemy. Nobody ever thought of giving them ten
years for perjury and conspiracy, and for a short
while the industry was a really good one. But
unhappily it is being destroyed by shock-headed,
snuffy old women with dirty boots and no front
iteeth who have one leg in the grave and another
in the gin-shop, and these ladies are bringing an
■important branch of the legal profession into ridi-
■cule. MaryLanigan, who was last week on the job,
is over 60 years of age, and has done Ihree sentences
for drunkenness. She “ took two glasses of bier ”
■the other evening, and about 1 a.m. she went on
a piece of waste ground near Kent-street, Sydney,
ibut “why she did so she can’t tell.” While she
was there two wicked men came along They
■were committed for trial, but the oase burst uo—
for a wonder.
Mr. W. H- Tristan.
The attached sketch is the best shot we can make
.at the features of Mr. W. H. Tristan, editor of
The Seymour (Vic.) Express. Mr. Tristan was
horn in Ireland, in June, 1856. He studied for
some time the mysteries oi physic and pills, but
thinking better of it he ceased to insult the human
ibody and took to the nobler profession of journal-
,ism. He served in almost every department of
the Dublin Morning and Evening Mail, but
after attaining the position of managing publisher
he was compelled to retire owiDg to ill-health,
,and in 1879 he sailed for Victoria, A few months
.after arrival he took charge of the Seymour Ex-
press, which he has since run on Democratic lines
to the discomfiture of many hoary local shams of
various sizes, and under his management this
■paper has now become a considerable power in
North-eastern Victoria. Considering his journal-
ilstic success, it is a matter for congratulation that
iMr. Tristan gave medicine best.
Mr. Thomas Still.
Ur Thomas Still, of the Jamieson (Vic.)
Chronicle, of whom front plan and elevation are
annexed, was born in London, and sailed for Mel-
bourne in 1866 His career in the colony has been
■entirely connected with the Press, and he has
been engaged on various journals at Daylesford,
Creswick, and another place with an undeci-
pherable name ending with “ Creek.” In 1878
■he became proprietor of the Jamieson Chronicle
which he still runs. He is located in a painfully
(perpendicular part of the country the present
writer was once lost there at midnight in winter
with a lame horse and only 18s. 7d. cash in the
world, and speaks with authority ; but Jamieson
is looking up, notwithstanding this disadvantages,
and the Chronicle is doing its best to give it a
.lift.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Criterion Theatre.—“ The Tomboy” p. 15.
Alhambra Music Hall—Minstrelsy ~
Theatre Royal—“ Little Jack Shepiard" i
Opera House—” Pert and her Stepmother ”
Y.M.C.A. Hall. —Mr. Locke Richardson
Exhibition Building.—Roller Skating Rink
From an aggressive remark which was
thrown at our head lately by a member of the
theatrical profession we were led to believe that
if we slated him in this page he would pound our
dust, and this brutal hint leads us to offer the
folio wing suggestion : On the next occasion when
any party of tragedians desire satisfaction at our
hands we would greatly prefer if the young ladies
of the company—say six of them —would come
and lay the matter before us. In deference to a
barbarous and degrading custom, this branch of
the business has generally been done by a walking
gentleman with a leg of mutton fist and a ruined
character, and we don’t like it. The Bulletin
critic has had his apology executed several time 3
this way, and it didn’t look natural on any single
occasion, and therefore he would prefer to have it
done the other way next time for a charge. If
the ladies of the stage will kindly adopt this sug-
gestion it will do more to promote good feeling
than if they cast him down the stair unto
seventy times seven.
## * #
We conferred the honour of our presence
on Minnie Palmer at Sydney Opera House, and
she evidently felt better when she heard that we
were there. We fixed “Pert” with our eye from
first to last, and the simple story went with re-
markable smoothness in consequence. As the
heroine, Minnie has an awful lot to bear,
but the sympathy expressed on our speaking
countenance kepi her up. Her father an old
military swell with more chest than brains —has
long since lost his wife, and his little daughter
makes it her duty to see that, he gets his gruel
rcg’lar ; but the old man never knows when he is
well off, and he goes out and marries sixpenn’orth
of female carthorse on the sly. Poor Port’s step-
mother proves to be a hard, buttoned-up female,
with a brassy nose at one end and a kick at the
other : she is hollow and snuffling, and filled with
corkcd-up venom, and m en when her utterances
appear to be the outpourings of a simple soul they
conceal canker-worms and scorpions She gathers
distorted facts with an ear like a ship’s
trumpet, and stores up animosity in her
fiat bosom, and when she thinks she is
alone she whistles lying paragraphs through her
1 CWt« At %Tp^ E iv°ft L oK lljc
fIRSf ?E(\fORMAKCt of'UTTLC J\c(
He * AiK Ho wa/ <o WtAK'OARBitS!
LprfoorT Cor\f^S-
A CONNOISSEUR OF LEG-IRONS.
nose. In a very few months this bony
cbarmer tramps Pert’s domestic happiness int >
the earth, but when she attempts to appropriate
that young lady’s diamonds, and int imates to her
lover —a hard-working youug man named - mall
that he is to consider himself a bounced out
journalist, the step-daughter rebels and puffs over
the horizon into obscurity. When the third act
closes, however, Pert is married, her second
hand mother is in full flight with a detective
pounding along in pursuit,, aud the heroine is
resting her tired and fuzzy little head once more
Oil her parent’s shirt collar. Minnie Palmer, as
Pet, is as near perfection as any reasonable
person wants, and her lightness and activity out-
shine even that Arab who folded his tent and
quietly stole away, and make him seem a brawl-
ing, clumsy absquatulator of the stupidest de-
scription. Mr R. A. Roberts officiates as an
awfully nice lover, and Miss Ada Murray, the
obnoxious stepmother, is as delicate of touch as a
runaway horse treading on a blind beggar.
Messrs Lester and Innam and Miss Grey are the
other strong points of the company, and our
prophetic soul warms over the scenery and
fixings.
ft- H it -)t
Another “ Jack Sheppard,” a prose felon
this time has arisen at Sydney Royal Standard,
and ’orses’ ’oofs are freely mingled with 'liman
brains in the course of the story. The drama is
about as mean as a naked Hottentot, and as a
work of art it is inferior to a pound of grease tied
up in a bath towel, but it is full of mysterious
stamping villains, who sniff haughtily through
noses of the hookiest dcs’i'iption, and it is adorned
with gory cryptograms worked in human bones.
Slouching pirates, each with a frog in his throat,
tread remorselessly on the feelings of poor widows,
and with a demoniacal glare drag orphans t) the
gallows; brutal, unfeeling highwaymen titter up
chimneys and yelp through broken windows ; and
a torrid skunk named Wild pervades the tale and
fills it with tears. He looks vicious enough in his
uncooked state, and would probably appear worse
if he were boiled. The hero is a banged and
torn apprentice with the voice of a cock-and-hen
club, who warbles in gaol, and when the warder in-
terferes seizes that official and bangs his bead against
the stone floor. He seems to be a born criminal
and spends all his time in sliddering to the gallows
despite the efforts of a tramp with a broken
heart, who tries vainly to reclaim him from vice.
In early life he receives many severe reproofs
with a hoard, but they only serve to harden his
conscience, and it is gratifying to note that he
comes to a bad end. This sort of fun seems to
amuse the patrons of the Standard, and on Satur-
clay the building was densely crowded in every
part by an excited multitude, who amused them-
selves before the rise of the curtain by shooting
rubbish at the orchestra. They cheered every-
body—Jack, the booted pirates, the drivelling
Jacobite Kneebone, and the tramp with the
broken heart, who, we forgot to meniion, was a
lady. Mr. H. C. Sidney, who had the misfortune
to be connected with the piece, gave a good repre-
sentation of a beastly character, and Miss Alice
Norton was strikingly attractive in the only part
we would not desire to see cut out. The rest of
the caste appeared to be oblivious to their own
misery.
## * #
The action of Miss Carrie Swain in return-
ing to “The Tomboy,” at Sydney Criterion, makes
it our painful duty to prospect for that lady’s
golden scalp. The piece will no doubt be a suc-
cess—everything that Carrie touches is that, more
or less —but we would ask her politely, yet firmly,
if she takes us for a heathen, or a dog, or a
wooden god, or any other of the beasts that
perish, that she should play such games upon our
spiritual corns. From the “Miner’s Daughter”
to the “ Tomboy” is a fall that is calculated to
squash the wickedness out of a Hebrew money-
lender named Hezekiah, and the change from the
Colorado judge to that spavined bondsman and
bald thiog of wickedness named Robert Cobb is
too—too much Carrie’s lover, too, is an obnoxious
feature. He obviously does his best to resemble
the “ chickaleary bloke” who haunts remote race-
courses, but tha author has given him an imbecile
jaw which he is unable to shake off, and he de
generates into a of 'nfamous stupidity. We
might say more on tli.j subj jot, but we are afraid
of being betriyed into making remarks which
would sound like harshness, or even disapproval,
& o wc will stc p here.
## # #
Cogill’s Minstrels still occupy Sydney
Gaiety, and their vocal brickbats and other at-
tractions kee,i the house remarkably full. This
long run of success makes it quite unnecessary
for Mr. Johnny Solomon to put up with sass from
anyone.
## # #
Alfred Lawton’s minstrels at Sydney
Academy opened on a damp evening in the
presence of a depressed-looking house. The city
is now suffering from altogether too much awful
nigger, and it wants a rest. Alf, as usual, is a
host, but the rest of his company are not, and the
programme is short and thin. On June 11 the old
favourite, Edward Farley, will be once more to
the front with a new English opera company, and
if the Academy ever means to fill it should do so
on this occasion. Knight Aston’s well-remem-
bered tenor will join in the row, and a lot
of other sweet melodists of note will be of the
party, while Mr. Farley’s own voice has been
greased by a little well-earned repose.
** * *
“ Little Jack Sheppard ” at Sydney Royal
has got a firm hold of the public taste, and lots of
people who don't know enough to drive a pig out
of the front yard now go about pointing out to
uncertificated insolvents and crumbling human
ruins the latent beauties of this musical leg-show.
The merits of the opera are such that we would
gladly go through it in detail, and knock each
separate item senseless with criticism, but space
unfortunately forbids.
#* * *
Mr. Locke Richardson will continue his
successful career at Sydney Y.M.C.A. Hall on
Friday by reciting the history of “ Henry 1V.,” a
respectable English monarch who had fits and
whose son got drunk.
## # *
Mr. Arthur Vivian and his dramatic com-
pany have been playing this week at the Theatre
of Varieties, Newtown. Business has been pretty
good in this suburban palace for once.
## # #
A musical entertainment was given to the
old women of the Newington (Sydney) Asylum the
other day. and the S.M Heraid says that “ the
singing of ‘ Sweet Spirit, Hear my Prayer,’ and
‘ Steer my Bark for Erin’s Isle,’ by an inmate
suffering from rheumatism, was especially good.”
We never suspected before that rheumatics de-
veloped the musical faculty, though they generally
do make people sing out; but now we know how
it happened that Mrs. Henry Battenberg has
become a musical composer. The Herald’s
Paris correspondent says that “ the Princess
Beatrice is decidedly rheumatic There is
clearly a connection between rheumatics and
chromatics.
it -)t it
Comedies is “ out ” and dramas is “in ”
among Melbourne boys who like a good play after
school hours. Hot and strong, with tears, is
what they are enquiring after in the capital of
the colony privileged to bear her Majesty's
gracious name. Sparkling mirth, and a nice froth
on it, is allowef to stand un'il it gets flat. In tin
spring a young man’s fancy lightly turns to
thoughts of comic opera, but in the winter of his
discontent he walks moodily into the stalls and
shrieks for belud. Anyway, “A Night Off” is
only doing moderately at the Princess’s, instead
of making a little fortune for the illustrious Trio.
There is enough good acting ia this to spread over
three ordinary performances. The fun is fast,
stage management up to Dick —whoev- r he was,
and the company is all prizes and no blanks wordi
mentioning. Yet things are quiet. Now, when
Anson, Titheradge, Maltby, and Hans Phillips all
revolve in the same orbit, along with Misses Watt-
Tanner, Agnes Thomas, Annie Taylor, and minor
satellites, without clubbing together a satisfactory
power of attraction—comedies must be “out,"
clean out. The Triumvirate understand this.
They have taken the ‘ ‘ knock ” —in a sentimental
way—and intend giving “ Blow for Blow," “ Two
Orphans,” and many other things, to an ungrate-
ful public, j ust to see how the ungrateful public
likes it.
#* * *
Any number of dram-mers are being
poured down Melbourne’s fiery throat. George
Kignold (if we call him “ Mr.” the gallery talent
guy us for a “ blooming toff”) finished up
“ Youth” at the Opera House with a lot in hand,
and now the Boueicaults are trying “ Arrah-na-
Pogue." Mr. Phil Day, the rogue ! courts the
fair “ Pogue.” If he has also caught the brogue
a notice to that effect shall be posted in these
columns next week. Then there’s “ Alone in
London ” at the Royal drawing like a dentist in
its fourth week, but bound to be shelved on
Saturday for the sake of the wicked “ World."
Also there is “Wanda” at the Bijou. This is
drama—but sassiety drama, showing the Maje-
ronis at their best, playing papa and mamma to
some very hot goods jin the in'ant-prodigy way,
and furthermore including a giddy countess, a
bare-legged heathen, and a stuffed golden eagle.
Yet failing somcwhal becauso it touches tho
hearts only of superior people like Sir nenry Loch,
who senl for Mr. Leitch Walker, yes, sent for him
bai .1 ove land congratulated him upon the success
of his play 7. “ Wanda” is an effective bit of stage
work, and, if it ran on human lines, would run a
very long time. But the nimble shilling seats
present a wide expanse of emptiness. A thrilling
climax to a grand scene is received with only
moderate erit husiasm by an audience which doesn’t
believe in slinging a man out because his mother
wasn’t a duchess, if somebody downed him with
a brick because his mother was a duchess tho
idea would catch on. To continue, they say that
when the golden eagle (“Ouida” is a whale for
golden eagles —they fly around in her novels as
cheap as hedge sparrows) has finished its engage-
ment, Sigaor Majeroni will put up “Corsican
Brothers.”
** * *
A small rift in these dark clouds of drama
is made by the Alexandra Opera Company. This
was only a very small rift at first, but the new
bill, “Cloches dc Corneville” may widen it and
light things up a bit.
Sir Henry Loch and the rest of Victoria
will receive Miss Amy Sherwin at Melbourne
Town Hall on Saturday (11th.)
#* * #
Here are some encore verses respectfully
suggested for the consideration of the Brough-
Boucicault-Little-Jack-Shoppard combination
“ And our gells go to court with all cheek as is
Introdo 'Ced to the Queen by the way.
No ‘ menchewon’ of court aud the Keakeses
Wot shipped uu to Botany Bay.
11 But old England’s cold freezes our marrer tight,
We sez yerls, lords, and dooks we can’t stay ;
Bo they makes each bushranger a barrer night
Calls ’em barons of Botany Bay.
" Ba our good-byes we makes rich believe us is
The 'ardest of all things to say,
And our cards they calls ‘ Tickets of-Leaveises ’
When returning to Botany Bay.”
** * *
At Adelaide, “Human Nature” has followed
“ Harbour Lights," and there have been crowded
houses. Messrs. Vincent, Philip Beck, W. Seton,
and Misses Isabel Morris andJLouise Davenport
play the principal parts. Mr. Beck, who in Mel-
bourne and during the first week in Adelaide, ap-
peared in the fourth act of this piece with his
" bare understandings,” has been prevailed upon
to wear “ fleshings.” Philip’s limbs are not too
graceful even when they are bare. “Silver
King” succeeds “Human Nature.” Wybert
Reeve follows.
** * *
Grattan Riggs, with his Sydney company,
started on Saturday for a tour through Queensland.
He will sustain all the roles in which he
has appeared in Sydney. Charles M‘Mahon,
as in the past, pilots the trip Miss Essie
Jenyns is playing Portia at Brisbane in away that
leads to columns of rapture in the local papers....
The Lynch Family of Bellringers are playing to
crowded audiences in Auckland (N.Z.). They leave
in August for Frisco The Italian Opera Com-
pany is now smoothing the savage beasts at Bris-
bane with “ Lucia ” and other emollients
Neither Grisi nor Lind ever got more than £6O for
a single night’s singing. Patti’s highest fee was
£lOOO per night in 'Frisco. In Mexico she took
£3BOO at one concert Like St. Patrick’3 Society
and the Hibernian Society (Melb ), the Phi lharmonic
Society and the Liedertafels of the Victorian
capital have “got their hair off” about preced-
ence at a Jubilee concert! Genevieve Ward
and W. H. Vernon were, at latest, appearing in
New York in farewell performances More un-
adulterated despair ! Mrs. Langtry is not coming
to Australia after all, haviDg signed a IODg N. Y.
engagement commencing September Dion Bou-
cicault, senior, enters into an American engage-
ment next August that will extend until the 9th
of June, 1888 A report has been circulated by
American papers and copied Into the London
Referee to the effect that Mr. William Elton
recently died in Melbourne. Luckily Mr. Elton
wasn’t buried, and his corpse is doing leading
comic business in “Harbour Lights,”... G. B.
Allen, the husband of Alice May, the operatic
vocalist, is ba-k in Melbourne, after 12 years
absence. He says he wants pupils. Alice, where
arc thou ! About 130 guineas has been collected
as a testimonial for Mr. George Darrell, and as we
write a benefit performance is fixei for Saturday,
the 11th inst H. J. Samuel', the theatrical
agent, was last week married in Sydney to Miss
Goodman, The Italian Opera Company are
playing to crowded houses at Brisbane, the
singers being as attractive, the costumes as poor
and the scenery and properties as shaky as ever.
Alfred Cellier’s “Dorothy” is rapidly ap-
proaching its two hundredth night in London, and
is a magnificent success. There is a new and
beautifully dressed ballet, and “ the finest quar-
tette of singers ever heard in comic opera.”
The Lynch Family Bellringers had a grand time
in Auckland, The Earl of Aberdeen patronised
the show, and after the family had rung their
bells the noble earl wrung their hands There
now 1 After that they frisked away to 'Frisco
like giants refreshed with —but the earl is a tee-
total er Tho brijht little Min Mvg»ie Kuigbt
who has nut been well, leaves Australii for
America per Mariposa for six months’ rest.


Pepper
Salt
A revolutionary English judge who evi-
dently doesn’t care tuppence for the dignity of the
law has resolved that a witness need not neces-
sarily take off his glove before taking the infected
book in his hand and swearing to tell the terewth
and nothing but the terewth. Also, if he has no
hands he will no longer, we presume, be impera-
tively required to take off his boot when he is
about to seize the scripture in his toe-nail, and
kiss it by putting his leg over his shoulder, and if
he is minus both arms and legs we understand he
may be sworn either lying on his front or his
back, or he may make a solemn affirmation as a
Christian in a wheelbarrow. It is almost too Boon
yet to estimate the full value of this concession,
but strangely enough the British theologian is
already lifting up his vocal cartwheel in protest.
One parson especially declares that the idea of
swearing in gloves is an insult to the Almighty,
and bitterly accuses the law of climbing on the
bunions of the church and interfering in matters
of a heavenly description. He has nothing at all
to say about the brutal and degrading habit of
testifying in pants, or perjuring in tight boots, or
perverting the truth in a collar that nearly takes
off the ears of the witness every time he attempts
to speak, neither does he see anything wrong in
the spectacle of a lovely nine-quart female pre-
varicating in a three-pint corset and a hat with
the corpse of a bird perched in front ; but for a
witness to kiss the book with his paw wrapped up
in a rat-skin he regards as absolute sacrilege.
For all other things he cares not one cent, but on
this point he is solid. Yet perhaps as this good
man wants so little here below it might be as
well after all to give way to him. He doesn’t ask
that the testifier should take his coat off and go
Into the matter in his shirt-sleeves as if he were
heaving coals, and he is not particular about him
ripping the porous plaster off his back, or re-
moving his glass eye and glowering at the bench
with the socket. Even now, in some barbarous
lands, a witness has to appear with nothing at all
on above the waist, but the English pietist, has
not got so far as that yet. He is woefully lax in
some things though he is very tight in others,
and this important point has been seriously
neglected (N.B.—Part of the above is meant to
be taken for sarcasm.)
The Melbourne Public Library scandal
smelt so rank of late that an active and intelli-
gent constable was deputed to sniff around the
Temple of Learning and report progress. As the
honour of the “foorce” is not involved in this
scandal, the constable’s report may be accepted as
closely approximating the honest truth.. He says
that most of the habitues of the Library are
“ dirty, frowsy men,” who fall asleep within 15
minute’s of arrival, some of them removing their
boots and socks previous to entering the lists for a
snoring tournament. Now it is vain to struggle
against the soporific influence of certain literature,
and we could forgive the drowsiness of a huoem-
ployed who tackled Allison’s History of Europe
with his boots on. We cannot drop a veil on this
report before mentioning chat the books in Mel-
bourne Library are chiefly used —as the Herald
modestly expresses it —“ as execution-blocks on
which to destroy vermin.” Pass the harp—
Trial by proxy is one of the latest phases
of Sydney justice. A few nights ago a certain
city bank clerk, having filled himself up to the
chin with fighting-rum, proceeded-to make the
Welkin ring, and a disgustingly officious policeman
having objected to this, the gay and festive re-
veller made the bobby’s ears ring as well. A
night in a dungeon was then the banker's lot, but
next morning a well-known solicitor confidentially
informed the Beach that Mr. Ds Lsger, who was
absent, was indisposed—had a head on him, in
fact—but he would represent him and plead
guilty. Forty shillings was then reoorded and
paid, and the affair worked so well that it bid
fair to become one of our most popular institu -
tions. It may be beneficial in the way of expe <
diting police-oourt business, and perhaps open
up yet another opportunity for the honest lawyer
to add to his modest hoard as well. For example.
Mr. Blackstone Bluebag, instead of taking his
clients’ cases separately, will simply bob up serenely
and say : “ Yer Wuship, this morning I re-
present 14 drunks, seven ‘ languages,’ two
assaults, and five riotous conducts ; what’s the
lowest you’ll do the lot for?” “ Make it even
money, yer Wuship," the lawyer will plead.
“ Say 20 notes and end the trouble.” “ Right you
are ” will be his ‘ Wuship’s ’ reply, and so 28 cases
will only occupy as many seconds, and Mr. Black-
stone Bluebag, having previously drawn £5O for
his services, will retire well satisfied with his
morning's work and the new style of dispensing
justice. The whole court business of the City of
the Beautiful Harbour and suburbs can then be
got through by one magistrate, and the retrench-
ment of the Civil Service will be complete.
A certain North Queensland —that locale.
will do as well as any other —Inspector of
Police is as particular about the personal
appearance of his men as he is careless of
the slovenly show he presents himself. He
is credited with even looking into his con-
stabulary's mouths to see if they have regularly
sandpapered their teeth, and yet it is currently
believed that his own face has never touched
water since be was baptised.- A loose button on a
ST. JOHN REDIVIVUS.
A Chinese Young Men’s Christian Association has been started in Sydney.
After a week’s membership, the Chinese Christian young man developes wings.
Little picture in the corner shows where he gets the wings.
policeman’s coat means an inevitable fine, but the
Inspector’s clothes are not unfrequently held
together by pieces of twine and lemonade-wire,
and nis general appearance is that of a “sun-
downer” out of luck. A few days ago this
worthy was out after a cattle duffer, with a
smart, spruce constable riding by his side, when a
selector, who happened to know the policeman,
bade nim “good day,” and then, pointing to the
disreputable-looking official with him, enquired,
“ What are you runnin’ th’ ole joker in fur, Jim?
Seems a hang-dog lookin’ old wretch, don’t he ?
If I were you, bust me if I wouldn’t capsize him
into the next creek an’ make the beggar wash the
mud off hiseelf.” “Jim” agreed that it was a
fine day, but he didn’t seem to catch the rest of
his friend s remarks.
» * *
4 little while back an itinerant and im-
poverished company of mummers engaged a
certain Meehanics’ Hall, to surprise the potato-
breeders and butter-punchers of the half-
dead hamlet with a realistic rendering of some
appalling tragedy, in which there are a murder
and seven promiscuous assaults. They played the
first night to an enthusiastic but small audience,
so small in fact that the gifted management could
not spare enough out of the gate money to supply
one square meal of pork and potatoes for the
troupe, but the troupe had “ been there ” before,
so they merely swore an oath or two and hungered.
During the forenoon of the next day, the hero of
the tragedy, who was supposed to have been gored
with a pig-knife by a hairy bandit in the play, was
sitting in the hall (the company hoarded under
the stage), figuring out how to make ninepence
buy a dinner and two beers, when there came in
at the door an unkempt, ragged-headed urchin,
carefully bearing before him a large bowl of some-
thing steaming and savory : ‘' Please, sir,” he
said, “ me mother sent me wid this for the poor
beggar as was shtabbed lasht noight; and how is he
gettin’ on, plase ?” The mummer gaped for a
moment, then the situation struck him like a
runaway horse. That bowl contained about a
quart of chicken broth with the chicken in it. and
as he tremblingly clutched the basin, and his
mouth leaked like a crushed orange, the tragedian
said : “ He’s getting on nicely, thanks, tell your
mother. Call again for the basiD. This will do
him a world of good 1" and three seconds later
the poor beggar who was stabbed was energetically
folding his person round that chicken and juice,
like a heavy cloud round a harvest-moon.
• * *
This is a touching story. There is a blind
man in Melbourne who makes his living by read-
ing a finger-Bible at one of the street comers.
One day a gentleman not unconnected with the
religious Press happened to be standing beside
him, a fact rf which the blind man was not aware
Scarcely any people were passing, and none of
them dropped anything into the hat. The blind
man read aloud page after page until he came to
the passage beginning, “ Then the Lord said unto
Moses." Here he paused for encouragement,
which was not forthcoming, then added, in an
undertone of disgust, “ This is d slow.”
At a recent meeting of the Cobar Council,
Alderman Hogan, bedad, shtruck th’ flure, and
moved ; “ That a special sum of money, not ex-
ceeding £5O, be passed for executing the ofliee of
Mayor for 1877.” “Executing” is good, and in
some cases we know of the money could not be
better spent.
A boy more or less doesn’t make much
difference in busy London. Exactly a year ago a
house fell down in the Blackfriars-road, and it
wa n’t until the other day that somebody tumbled
across the body of a boy buried among the broken
bricks. For 12 long months his poor mother had
been mildly marvelling why the young rascal
didn’t come home to tea.
Here is a terrible warning for Bishop
Moorhouse. A youth of 19 died sud-
denly in Sydney last week owing to his inability
to digest great masses of food. He perished, in
face, from a rush of leg-of-mutton, vegetables,
custard tvnd dessert to the stomach. His brother-
in-law declared that the poor youth was of strictly
temperate habits, though he had literally eaten him -
self into eternity, but the angel of death was
evidently of a different opinion, and it smote him
on top of his dinner and carried him away. Two
other persons have since died in Sydney of sheer
over-eating.
Great shades of philosophers, sages,
Poets, writers of fiction, who feed
The minds of mankind through the ages
With works it costs nothing to read,
Shall your books fall of wisdom eternal
Be handled by chaps minus socks ?
Shall they put them to purpose infernal
By using the pages as “blocks”
For the swift execution of insects,
The mention of which makes us “ creep?’
Cannot somebody collar these suspeots
And bundle ’em out in a heap ?
A Library free to the masses
Is a boon that the world cannot beat,
We abhor all distinction of classes—
Among such as are wholesome and sweet.
When a loafer, though frowsy and dirty,
Plumps down in a neighbouring chair,
Then the keen scented scholar gets shirty
And bolts—for a breath of fresh air ;
O 1 ’tis rough, when you really determine
To study some master of prose,
And a vagrant despatches his vermin
On “ Milton,” right under your nose.
Enough 1 ’Tis a subject unpleasant;
The moral is patent, we ween—
A peer is the same as a peasant,
So long as they’re both of ’em clean ;
' Tis not on a question of “breeding”
This nuisance requires to be squashed—
Let a loafer, e’en, go in for reading
At that Library —after he’s washed.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mewing is the name of a Brisbane aider-
man.
Beach, the N.S.W. aquatic champion, has
eight children.
Parkcs is suffering from a cold. A keen
frost is setting in.
They are saying giddy things about the
Chinese Commissioners in Melbourne.
An Irishman whose name is Jenkins
always calls himself “ Jennings.” Yah !
It is rumoured that Mr. T. P. O’Connor
M.P., is to be editor of the London Daily News'
The German Crown Prince's malady is
said by a French medical paper to be laryngeal
cancer.
Sydney D.T. says Bismarck (who is very
i 1!) is 62. Ashe was born in 181 r he mutt bo
nearer 72.
The Chinese Commissioners have of
course, been appointed honorary members of the
Melbourne Club
Mr. T. N. Pugh, the popular acting leader
of the A nous (Melb.) staff, has been spending a
holiday in Sydney.
The Queen weighs fourteen stone two, and
stands sft. 2in. How will Jubilee statue measure-
ments tally with these unfortunate figures t
Sydney Corporation is commencing to cele
brate the Jubilee. At a recent meeting one
Alderman called another an “ unmitigated liar."
Sir Psalmyell Griffith went to the Opera
at Milan on Sunday night. And the deuce of it is
that the Queensland papers now know all about it.
In the Gribble libel action a son of the
rev. plaintiff flatly contradicted some of his
father’s statements as to the natives being ill-
used.
It is complained that the Professors at
Sydney University have each to eke out an exist-
ence on a miserable pittance of from £l2OO to £l7OO
a year.
A brother of Lord Lonsdale has been sent
to gaol for a month for horse whipping a cre-
ditor to whom he owed 15s. 9d. “ Our old no
bility !”
An Argus writer says that a certain
bishop’s mouth looks better in nature than in a
photograph. Which shows that photography is not
yet perfect.
The Queen of Hawaii is in London for the
Jubilee. This will no doubt mean baronetcies for
Consul-General Smith, of Sydney, and Consul
Oakley, or Melbourne.
It wasn’t drink, anyhow', that drove poor
William Madden, the young Melbourne solicitorl
to blow his brains out. His favourite refresh-
ment was soda and milk.
A member of the Melbourne Shakespeare
Society is goiDg to prove that Hamlet was Irish
and a Home Ruler ; also that the girl who loved
the eccentric prince spelt her name O Phelia.
Adelaide is excited over two old fogies
there who were alive at George the Third’s
jubilee. That’s nothing. Sydney Asylums can
trot out old men who landed with Captain Cook.
The late Mr. Parkes has, they say, fallen
a victim to the very principles he carried out in
his own bank—one or two efficient heads, and a
lot °f jum° r clerks who are supposed to know
their duty.
The notorious “ Dr. Bonnefin,” doing a
stiff sentence for swindling, earned honorable
mention at Pentridge last week by preventing one
lifer from jabbing another “ lifer ”in the skull
with a chisel. Whether the “ doctor’s ” pluck
benefited the community is a question which
could only be threshed out in a lengthy pamphlet,
I icvention of Crimes among Criminals” is a
good subject for a lecture.
Peter Lalor, the Speaker of
Victorian Assembly, will shortly retire
on a pension of £lOOO a year The
doughty old veteran has fallen into the
sere and yellow leaf, and little remains
about his presence to remind one of the
part he played in the Eureka Stockade
exc f P M, tbe em Pty coat-sleeve.
I weak and ill as he was during nearly
the whole of last session, Mr. Lalor never
forgot the dignity of the chair. “ 1 will
not dispute your ruling now, sir, because
you are ill, said Mr. M Lellan during a
fierce debate. “ I am well enough still
to keep the hon. member in order ” re-
„fJAoineVhl ?! d ' rarrior fiercely, and the
Do' 6 °f Ararat subsided. Lalor will probably be
succeeded by Mr. Davies, of St. Kilda.
Appropriately enough, Mr. Lamb took the
chair at the dinner given in Sydney to celebrate
the invention of an Egyptian shearing—we mean
sheep-shearing-machine by Mr. Fred. Woleeley
Sir Garnet s brother.
n American scientist has just asserted
that a great collection of hair about the mouth
impairs the intellect. We suppose it's too late to
ask Parkes to act in a way that would disprove
this statement.— Globe
After publishing a polite description of the.
ailments of the Duchess of Cumberland (culled
from an English paper), the Maryborough (Q )
Chronicle adds the footnote-*' In other wo ds
she is as mad as a hatter.”
Mr. G. E. Rennie, a brilliant young Syd-
ney student, son of the N.S.W. Audi or-uen.ml
has carried off theTuse and Bruce medals and the
Atchison scholarship at London University, and
thus ranks as the best man of his year.
of those legal luminaries,
Stephen, Holroyd, and Williams for cane
bottomed chairs has grown upon them in their
maturer years. As boys they each acknowledged
all a boy s abhorrence for a caned seat.
Attorney Gaunson and Purves Q.C. in
handygnps at the Windsor inquest. Her Majesty's
when S< T : ?° U r ® a DUck « uard . and 111 kick you
when 1 get you outside.” Her Majesty's ex-
Mimster : You re a ruffian and a bally.”
viinwrm ? Lei « h ’ late edltor of the Charle-
piirnivi IMBS ’ as Just j° ined the staff of
Eternity. An overdose of chlorodyne helped him
to the vacancy, and m his pocket was found a
sufeide tatlDg thaC bad debtS had forced him to
Mr. Edmond S. Parkes, killed in the
Melbourne railway smash, has left real and per-
eBt^ am ° Untin f, t 0 £I,J ’ 000 - He has also
left ten children equally interested in the hand-
some compensation ” which the Victorian Go
vemment must inevitably shell <- jU


I r Robert Stout, the N.Z. Premier, is,
.be his name, a teetotaller. Visiting a war-
at Wellington not long since, the captain
red wine for his guest. “ I don’t drink wine."
Sir Wobert. “Ah," answered the old captain
ing his hands, “ you are one of my sort.
■ard, please bring the brandy.”
here were two reasons for Prince Albert
;or's expatriation to Gibraltar : one was his
tuaiion for Lady Randolph Church 11: the
ir, his penchant for tne Princess Mary of
{ who, being the prettiest princess of the
lph family, is consequently unpopular with Her
cious and the Princers of Wales.
,fc a recent Freethought debate in Mel-
rne, Mrs. Ballou suggested that that prosaic
erialist, Jos. Byrnes, might, after death, come
is an onion. Snould the lady-lecturers of Mel-
me all depart this life soon and re-appear in
next state of existence as cows, we shall be
jver content to live on steak and onions.
'here are now 408 princes in Europe, of
im 35 belong to the principality of Lippe,
•re there are only 16,000 souls to role over,
via, on the other hand, has but two princes,
l of whom are descended from a courageous
pig-jobber, and if the pig-jobber could rise
n his grave he would be ashamed to own them.
'his is how we get glory in the London
ss
rhe committee of the Exhibition, among whom are Lord
man, Sir Barrow Kllis, K.C.5.1., Sir Julian Goldsmid,
Holman Hunt, M. Ernest Renan, Lord Rothschild,
m Ferdinand de Rotthchild, M,P., Sir Saul Samuel,
M’G , C. 8., Sir Albert Sarsoon, K.C.5.1., Sir John
on, M.P., Lord and Lady Wynford and many others
id for their interests in matters of historical importance.
Che will of th*e late Mr. E. S. Parkes,
pector of the Bauk of Australasia, and who
i killed in the recent Brighton (Melb. I railway
ident, has been sworn at £15,570. His family
re refused to accept £26,000 compensation on
score that the amount is The
nmandment is altered, and now reads: “ Value
ir father,” &c.
Poor Peter Lalor, the Victorian Speaker,
) had much domestic trouble lately. His only
1 grealy-loved daughter, after a very brief
Tried life, died quite recently, and now the
saker—whose own health is thoroughly broken
vn—has lost his wife. Mr. Lalor’s only sur-
■ing child is a young medical man practising at
chrnond (Melb.).
The Argus thus describes the constituents
t>>e Scots Church congregation Tall, grey-
ided, red-faced prosperous men, who stand, if
reasonably, by the things wherein they were
>d; the thin-lipped, narrow-eyed, bushy-
med ancients, who would debate with St.
ter as to the proper method of announcing a
eeas“d M'Pherson.”
Marcus Clarke once nominated a very
obbish person for election as a member of the
irick Club. As it was well known I hat Clarke
proughly disliked his protege there were en-
iries as to why he had consented to become
onsor for him. “ Oh,” replied Clarke cheer-
lly—“ it pleases him to be put up, and it will
atify me to pill him.”
The old French aristocracy has lest its
ief. The Duke La Rochefoucauld-Daudouville,
ad of the houses Montmorency, Talleyrand-
jrigord, Mortemart, &c., died in Cannes last
onth, in the 70th year of his age, of long-stand-
g heart-disease. By his marriage with Mdlle.
i Colbert he had three sons, but he lost them one
ter the other* We are one of them.
“ Oh, that men,” &c. Mr. Cameron,
ho was propped up with a few pillows and a
■utch or two while giving his experiences of the
[elbourne railway accident to a sympathising
iry was subsequently discovered by some of the
irymen holding a glass to his mouth in front of
bar. As a bona fide injured passenger, Cameron
ill get good damages, but he “blewed” a bigslice
! them in that one rash refresher.
A certain N.Z. politician is said to be about
le heaviest eater in all Australasia. In his younger
ays his dinner consisted of a two hours wading
irough all kinds of victuals, and though he is
ow in the sere and yellow leaf he can still make
lings look pretty gaunt at a banquet. On one
ccasion, twenty years ago, a bill of £3O for
ne month’s solid refreshment was dumped down
a his table and he did not even look surprised.
English cadgers for the Jubilee Imperia.
nstitute lose no opportunity, however shameful,
o add to the funds of that frost. ihe managers
f a football festival, held ostensibly for the benefit
f the charities, were “ induced to divert the
iroceeds into the coffers of the Imperial Institute,
'his is characterised by one London paper as
‘ robbery of the worst kind, robbery of widows,
he orphans, and the sick.” The Prince of Wales
.ttended the match conditionally on the Institute
getting the gate-money !
Editor Bulletin. —Sir, — Docherty, the
amous coachdriver, was engaged a few days
igo driving a six-horse coach into Albury
rom a town some distance off. A race-
neeting had been held at the place and t e
•oach was full of as savory a set of gamblers and
otalisator-conductors aa could possibly be drawn
ogether. The spielers wanted excitement, and
me of their number said to the driver, “ Are you
Docherty ?—blow me, why I’d drive better than
tqu myself !” This was followed by several other
taunts which were all taken in good part by
Docherty, who kept his horses at a steady pace. At
length one of the spielers wished to exhibit his
style of driving, and asked Docherty to get off the
box. Docherty seemed annoyed, and said: Well,
as you all evidently want to see some driving 111
show yon. Now, stick to your seats! -at the
same time tying the reins in a knot and throwing
them on the backs of the polers. Then he burst
forth into a stream of awful imprecations yaps,
yells, shrieks, shouts, howls &c (such as we hear
at a Parliamentary debate), and with the aid of
plenty lashing the horses were soon dashing along
at a terrible pace —Docherty being able to guide
them with his whip alone. The precious push
on board were at once utterly paralysed with
terror. Then, when their blood began again to
circulate, they started yelling with fear, and be-
seeching Docherty to pull up as the wheels grazed
a stump or log, or slid past some awful rut. Afcer
going at this pace for about two miles-those in-
side having epeatedly tried to splinter the frame-
work of the vehicle with their skulls- Uooherty
reached down, caught the reins and pulled up his
foaming team. On lookiDg into the coach the in-
mates were found to be in a queer state. Borne
had black eyes, others were suffering the loss of a
tooth or two, some were crying, and others in a
condition of dead faint, while all had their intel-
lectual-looking crania more or less enlarged. Ihe
rest of the journey to Albury was negooiated at a
funereal pace, or somewhat faster than a Sydney
tram.—BJ.J. (History repeats itself. One
Macdougall, erstwhile of Rockhampton, performed
this exploit years ago. —Ed. B.J
POLITICAL
POINTS
I Wise ? —Not much.
A Wise man —Salomons.
Foster favours Freetrade, but not in
N.S W. judgeships.
Wise is a discriminating Freetrader. But
not very discriminating.
A tenant in Sligo, Ireland, chained him-
self to a rock to avoid eviction.
The French declined to accept a War
Minister Saussier than Boulanger.
Seventy-five Chinkies left Sydney by one
steamer last week for Tasmanian mines.
The “ Stout Ministry” (N.Z.) has proved
too weak to stand. It’s “ head” was frothy.
Salomons supports Wise, Wise supports
the Government, and the Government supports
both.
The Mackay (Q.) Standard advocates &
boycott of Brisbane in consequence of the refueal
of Separation.
From the Bega (N.S.W.) Standard : “ A
hundred to one. The state of Protection v. Free-
trade in this district!
Many people who don’t believe in monarchy
think a holiday celebration for every member of
the Royal family would suit.
Emigration has not been blocked a day too
soon recorded 481 deaths and 1085
births in' April. And this with 5000 unem-
The only exhibits of bacon and hams that
were shown in the recent Sydney Metropolitan
Exhibition came from Ballarat (Vic.) and Christ-
church (N Z.) Hooray for Freetrade I
The N.S.W. Attorney-General says the
p ar kes Government really mean to introduce a
THE NEW MEMBER FOR MUDGEE.
(Photo, by Smith)
property-tax. It was precisely that proposal that
wrecked the Francis Government in Victoria.
By shelving the tobacco-tax
B. Rirgnose Wise receives
A vantage his opponent lacks
Gets in through forty thieves.
Gov. -Loch’s Jubilee cablegram to the
Queen contained 26 words. The reply of Her
Gracious made 13 words, just half as much. From
this we argue that H. G.M. must have paid for it
herself.
The Bundaberg (Q.) Star apologises to
its readers for publishing Tennyson’s Jubilee hog-
wash. It merely inflicted it to show how low a
poet may fall. For a man who sells himself,
whether to queen or devil, it feels nothing but
contempt.
The great Fitzgibbon, Town Clerk of Mel-
bourne and Corporation Trumpeter*in*Chief, says
that the Victorian Legislative Assembly
high among the Parliaments of the world. It
does smell a bit strong.
The spirited foreign policy of Cooktown,
(Q ) as evinced by her expeditions to Ne v Guinea,
has lost that enterprising town 100 inhabitants,
in nine years. Most of them have helped to
fatten New Guinea chiefs.
At the French War Office, one of the
clerks has been detected betraying secrets to the
German military attache. As a set-ofi to this,
several German officials have been arrested for
selling fortress-plans to France.
Parkes says that u one of the first of his
reforms will be to give the ladies the privilege of
entering the House.” Pooh ! hasn’t he done it
already ? Aren’t Alfred Allen and C. J.
Roberts, and all the rest of them, there now ?
Since Rev. Dr. Charles Strong has began
to advocate Irish Home Rule, a number of his
staunchest adherents have withdrawn their sub-
scriptions from the “ Australian Church.’, “Ye
canna sairve twa maisters —God and the bawbees.
The Australian A gents-General are going
to “ co operate ” in illuminating their offices on
Jubilee day. That is to say they will loyally
“ co-op.” on their own account, and then “ coo
the expenses out of the revenue of the various
colonies.
The “ loyal ” thirteen of Sydney Municipal
Council had a bitter fight with the disloyal eight
to get &la o of the citizens' money voted for
Jubilee gas, one audacious alderman (Playfair)
being “in favour of the Mayor paying for the
illuminations out of his own pocket.” We quite
agree with Playfair. It does seem a trifle lop-
lided that the citizens should spend their good red
old merely to let a pushing draper write three
itters after his name.
The contributions at all the Catholic
hurdles in the Tinited States have decreased
mce Ur. M'Glynn's suspension. His late
arishinners refuse to contribute save with tickets
n whieh are printed the words “Good fir 10
ents when Dr. M'Glynn returns.” Whacalovely
eke !
The .Advertiser, published at West Mel-
lourne, announces that it. is going to illuminate
in Jubilee night with a farthing candle stuck in
in onion From this it will be seen that a feeling
»f intense devotion to our gracious queen pervades
he bosom of even the humblest among her sub-
ects
Mr. Wise kindly offers to pay £25 to a
Sydney charity provided anyone can Bhow any
iromise of his which has not been fulfilled. W ise
iught to be aware that after Abigail s failure to
lay up his £25 nobody accepts sporting offers
'rom any of Parkes’ followers unless the money is
put up.
The Victorian Board of Health is now re-
juiring that the doors of all new public buildings
shall open outward. This plan is recommended
io Colonial Architect Barnet, of N.S.W., who
should at once give every facility for the kicking
put of the majority of the members of the present
Parliament.
An Anti-Chinese League, 350 strong, has
been formed in Bundaberg. Market gardeners
are starting operations, and there will soon be an
ample supply of wholesome vegetables grown by
white met. The boycott will be brought to bear
on all who directly or indirectly deal with the
yellow skins.
A Bega paper protests against. The
Bulletin’s Jubilee proposal that Parkes be sent
there. It says that Jamberoo can have him if it
likes, failing which Bega would accept him as
raw material and send back to Sydney in the
form of bacon. Which we humbly decline. We
never had a taste for thick-skinned pork.
Information wanted : Did Parkes promise
Wise a judgeship when that young man was green
enough to become his Attorney-General, and if he
didn’t why didn’t he, seeing that promises are so
cheap ? Secondly : did wise think he was likely
to get it: Thirdly : will he carry on like the hero
of a twopenny Indian romance when the. occasion
comes and Parkes slithers out of his promise, or
w’ill he take the disappointment lying quiet like
a lamb ? Information on the points will be thank-
fully received.
Minister for Justice
Clarke has dropped on
“some important (acts
hitherto unknown,” which
promise to overset a lot of
the Crown evidence in the
Mount Rennie case. This
is a cheerful prospect for
the four lads who are
already hanged and dead
and buried. It is also a
nice satire on Judge Win-
deyer, who adjourned the
trial of eleven men in order
that he might dine at Go-
vernment House, Sydney.
It is also a beautiful satire
on that dunder -headed
weakling, Lord Carington,
and on public opinion in
N.S.W., and on the daily
I’ress, and on Judge Win-
deyer’s sleeping jury, and
on the parsons, who as a
body would do nothing in
the way of a dvocating the
claims of mercy. Apropos ,
we now commence to under-
stand why it is that the
rebellious French work-
man props up the soi-
clisant Christian clergy-
man against the wall and
says “Fire!”
Way back in the “ good old days ” of 1854
the S.M. Herald spoke of Parkesas" a promising
politician,” and “ hoped that his latter career
would be moulded on his present one.” Parkes is
still on the “ promising” job, but when he keeps
a promise our almanac-editors note the fact down
under the heading of “ Remarkable Events.”
Mr. Garrett has just said in the N.S.W.
Assembly that, in his experience as an M.P. for 25
years, the only persons who have improperly used
their Parliamentary positions to further their pri-
vate interests have been wealthy men —no poor
man ever did such a thing. Let’s seel Tom Garrett
and Betsy Baker have always been reputed to be
poor men 1
There are still between 80 and 100 men
and boys (formerly employees of the company) out
of work at Bulli. The company states that those
assisting others to take action for compensation
on account of the disaster will not be employed,
but the men say that if all the old hands are
taken on, instead of strangers, not one action for
compensation will be prosecuted.
Colonel King-Harman, the newly-ap-
pointed Under-Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant
of Ireland, is a large property-owner in the island,
whose rents were recently reduced 50 per cent, by
the Government commissioners. By pitchforking
King-Harman into such a billet the Tories are
only carry ing ont their policy of first exciting
“ outrages ” in order that they be suppressed by
military force.
G. W. Mayhew writes to the Bundaberg
(Q.) Star
‘•One fact of more than ordinary interest ia that, within a
few years, we have Bent away no less than six Chinese
lepers, and one died in quarantine here One, I may say,
while affected with the disease, was em P‘<V ed **
nurse at the houße of a civil servant here, and was brought
iu daily contact with his employer a little children.
Not any leprous cabbagee on our little plate to day,
thank you.
A Home Rule member the order day read
in the Commons a letter written many years ago
by a Tory swell, Capt. W. Vernon, to Lord
Donegal, asking for a billet for his nephew in the
Irish Civil Service. The letter happily defined
the qualifications necessa-y for a Government
office in that unhappy country. "He (the
nephew),” wrote Capt. Vernon, “is well qualified
for anything-"
According to Mr. G. W. Mayhew, editor
of the North Australian, the Chinese m Pal-
merston now take the functions of tailors, bakers,
carpenters, jewellers, bootmakers, timber mer-
chants, storekeepers, laundrymen, greengrocers,
boarding-house keepers, and cordial-makers, in
addition to being miners, storekeepers, land
peculators, &c. Verily there is a wide field for
Captain Boycott in the Northern Territory o
Australia.
Crimes bills are wanted for Wales and
Scotland now. The latest is that the Joneses,
Williamses, and Lewises are kicking up a sniady
about the collection of Church titnes,
and after tbe manner of the O’Raft'ertys, Ryans*
and Hooligans across the Channel, an army of
2000 Davys marched against the police and \ re-
vented the officers of the law from executing
“ distress” warrants.
Parson Jefferis, in a recent lecture, asked
his audience ‘ To think of N.SW. without Lord
Caring ton !” Tnink, again, of a state y snip bear-
ing a wooden figurehead. It is lopped off. Who
but a parson would be so silly as to assert she
wouldn’t reach her destination without it ? Par-
sons who talk such bosh are merely the parasites
of Princes. One Lord is not enough for them.
They bow down before every lord.
One of the calamities of political economy
is that it has always been written up either by
rich men, or the friends of rich men, or those who
have been -well paid to keep the game alive.
Another is that it has been developed from id al,
and not from actual conditions. A third is that
it has often drawn inferences from temporary cir-
cumstances, not from permanent motives. And a
fourth is that, as a rule, those who understand it
least are generally the first to rise up and have
the most to say about it.
Even the Rockhampton (Q.) Argus, the
most one-horse organ of Grifflthian stupidity ever
run by a lost soul in a back-yard of a tenth-rate
town, is waking up. Itstatesthat “nothing on earth
can be surer than that the flood-tide of political
thought has set in towards Protection from every
quarter of the civilised globe,’’ and we back this
as the noblest sentiment we have seen in the
Argus since that day, years ago, when the poor
editor—may the heavene be his bed ! —suicided on
top of his own unread proofs.
General Wong Yong Ho and his suite are
now in the Cabbage Garden—a most suitable
place for his petticoated dignity to find himself.
The almond-eyed ambassadors profess themselves
delighted with Sydney and our Queen of Beauty,
and declare that there is no place they have visited
w here the Chinese are in a more favourable condi-
tion. Yes! your serene complacencies ! Our good
Sir Henry Parkes saw to that long ago. It’s only
the white-skinned Australian mechanic who finds
things dead against him in N. S. W.
Mud J. Haynes, M.P., absolutely threw
himself away in one act iu the N.S.W. Assembly
last woek. He said that during the few days that
he had been a member he had received no loss
than 200 letters, nine-tenths of which indicated
that if he were to do certain things he would be
paid. He assumed that the outside public be-
lieved that every member was get-at-able in the
same way—but no other member acknowledged
that he was held in such low estimation as to be
ITered 200 bribes in less than a month.
Ex- Attorney-General Foster, the crushed
etim of Parkes’ vanishing-wig trick, when
leaking at Mr. Wise’s meeting, observed that
his confidence in Sir Henry Parkes had not
minished in any way.” From this we gather
Lat a seventh judge is shortly to be appointed
id that Foster has got the promise in writing
iis time. Apropos, Foster said, the other day,
lat he had no confidence in Parkes. Now he
iys his confidence in 1 ’arkes hasn’t diminished.
?e s’pose not. You can’t take nothing from
othing.
During the recent discussion in the House
E Lords on the Law of Evidence Amendment
ill, Lord Denman “ got his dander riz.” With a
itch at his shirt-collar and a wave of his jewelled
and, he thundered forth to the sleepy hereditary
iw-makers around
“ Noble lords may sneer at me, and do their best to snub
le, but it is too much when they make a practice of con-
imptuously turning their backs upon me wheuever I rise to
leak, and I feel greatly inclined to apply the end of my
oot to the nearest part of their persons."
i’hich made the old nobility snort and sit up
uddenly.
An item for the pauperised working men
f N.S.W to ponder over I The Chinese Com-
lissioners were entertained at a picnic down the
arbour on the invitation of the Chamber of Com-
lerce, but the whole of this expense was not
orne by that body. By order of Treasurer Burns
he Government steamer Ajax was brought down
rom Newcastle for the occasion, at an expense of
!401 This amount has not been paid to the
iovernment, and no demand is to be made for it.
Vho will say now that the Calico Jimmies don’t
‘ boss ” the country 2
During Yietoria’s glorious reign 1,225,000
leople have died from starvation in various parts
if the Empire ; 3,668 000 have been evicted in
reland and left to die in the ditches and on the
lillsides from “natural causes’’—deaths from ex-
losure don’t count among the cases of starvation ;
ind 4,186,000 have emigrated from the same
:ountry, and been glad to get away from the sway
if her Gracious’ benign sceptre. Last year 2000
leople died from huDger in England alone, but
Victoria kept right on with her dinner and her
>ank-account and took no notice of the awkward
lireu instance.
Mr. Wise, Attorney-General for N.S.W.,
;ives himself away like a cheap drink. He re-
;rets. he says, that the Government were com-
jelled to retain the protective duties on bacon and
lairy produce for the sake of revenue. Now, the
Freetraders always assert that protective duties
ion’t give revenue, and in proof of this Burns,
when reducing the tax on candles from ljd. to Id ,
ooasted that he would increase the Treasury re-
ceipts by the reduction. Consequently, if the
iuties on bacon, &c., are protective, they can’t
have been retained to produce revenue, for there
is no revenue to be got from them, and if they are
not protective, then why doe 3 Wise regret, &c. 2
Whence these tears, and what’s the matter with
Wise?
From an English paper of June 22tid :
“The Hon. Julian E. Salomons, Q C,, who a short time
ago resigned the office of Lord Chief Justice of New South
Wales, has now been apno-nted to the Legislative Council of
that colony, vice Sir Henry Parkes, who will act as the re-
presentative of the Government in the Upper house I ’’
That English paper is woefully behind with its
facts. It has seemingly not even heard of Bid-
ding: on’s appointment as poundkeeeper at Jam-
beroo, and is quite unaware that Jack Want has
got the billet of matron at Newington Asylum.
And what is worse, it is so utterly steeped in
ignorance that it knows nothing about how
Foster resigned the Attorney-Generalship because
Sir James Martin threw a big dynamite bomb at
him on the occasion of a Cabinet meeting, and
how he skipped downstairs calling out that he
had lost all confidence in the Ministry and didn’t
think Parke 3 fit even to be secretary to a monthly
nurse. The blindness of the English press is
simply appalling.


77?* 7-1 /*? -
T'er/or _ cZ ?7 e v'<2->~ cJro/a
_sQ
JZ?3'
if /i Sore/
eftd 5 /?l &■*c?<r? 7
(2* J
' /rrc „ ’
re/ *^
VP
(%>*■
flsr
'w’J
►W' ’IJ,
¥\ *t 4
n/o-f*'&/s» Su>*ATS
-OZ/-',/ /e
S r 5) unit otf.. —
ig ,
\m^ >r Y y (
d/Z. a/- /s A
To S//ytZ -& rt / '»S<?tjl
O' /-\ rf . jtZ(
\ /S
J
■/
V. a T* 4
ifef-SB&
- - -v e '*><»-£.
fet„, e T - •£,'
. fk
/ /re /j u&/f~ Cl?}c ? /. r/e,cj —'^
/£.J£2£'X* y *t'*
/-*- £ -zzztjx: - *“
Covfi- rojyou nces
4/sn /& <r< J A e
/5 ipo fu. >7O u. (/S)
2 So
/j ~/o 4 4 - I
rr/ /o S/7*f/u. ,lc:{ £i <///?<£
tDc*. i-<Jr*o6e iei/tyb I
-y ‘-'" £/ - i /'f’ettya Tf'a./- jse
refurrp be <«4. ~ j *./. ~Ss *r,
'7t> ora /-r<- t
Gumboil Cairns’ Adventures in New Guinea.
“Farl Cairns is in Sydney, on his way to England, having grown tired of New Guinea.”— Daily Paper.


South Sydney’s Burden.
“This is indeed a great vietory for Freetrade. Again has South Sydney taken upon herself the burden of the country’s adversity! ”—Ringnose
Wise, M.P., returning thanks to the South Sydney electors.


Society
Bishop Barry, of Sydney, is to preach a
“ Jubilee Sermon ”at Cambridge—or rather has
preached it by now. Is the purpose of a sermon
religion ? and if so what part of his religion is the
Queen, and what relation does she bear to the
essentials of salvation ? We should like to know,
because otherwise we might think that the pro-
fession of religion was being made a tool for the
practice of toadyism, and perhaps the futherance
of aspirations which a temporal monarch can
give more readily, perhaps, than one whose king-
dom is not of the earth.
When a man marries a woman, O my
children, he commonly makes her his wife. But
when an Admiral trots several yards of white
satin up an Episcopalian aisle he transforms it
into his “ lady.” At least so declares our worthy
S.M. Herald, for in a recent guest-list it states :
“ Among them being Mrs. Fairfax (the Admi-
ral's lady.”)
* * *
Temuka(N.Z.) proposes to celebrate the
Jub. by hanging the local Js.P. by the neck
until they are dead. This idea was originated by a
party named Badman, who adds that free educa-
tion only leads to larrikinism and time-payment
pianos.
# * *
The marriage of Mr. Gordon Stewart, son
of the late Mayor of Melbourne, to Miss Galbraith,
of Kew, Melbourne, is arranged for June 15th.
* # *
The Sunbeam is getting to have quite a
history. While en route for Australia, and just
off Goa, the secretary (Mr. Frank White) com-
mitted suicide by jumping overboard. He left a
packet of letters addressed to Lady Braasey, and
in a brief note he bade farewell to her ladyship,
and asked her to forgive him for making this re-
turn for all her kindness to him, and asked her to
throw all his things overboard, stating that he
was so ill that he could not bear it any longer—
that he was almost mad. He signed himself,
“ Yours most gratefully, Frank White." Mr.
White was comiDg to Australia to fulfil an en-
gagement on the staff of the Melbourne Argus.
He has a brother settled out here. What a tre-
mendous advertisement this would be if the
Brasseys w r ere travelling professionally. But
hold I Perhaps they are.
In Sydney, not so very long ago, a lady—
the wife (certificated) of a medico—became en-
raged at his frequent visits to another seraph
residing in one of the suburbs. Her jealousy was
not allowed to cool, for an anonymous correspon-
dent kept her well-informed as to the number and
length of his visits to the unorthodox charmer.
One day when the lady's inner consciousness in-
formed her that her husband was straying from
the path of virtue, she set out to view the resi-
dence of the guilty one, to judge, from the ex-
terior, if her surmise was correct or not. Sure
enough there was her husband’s t ap stationed
outsiae ! In a moment my lady mounted the
steps and knocked at the door. A servant opened
it. “ Can I see your mistress 1” “No mum, she’s
out” “She is not! She is in, and my husband
is with her.” So saying, the lady thrust the ser-
vant aside, find rushed upstairs to the drawing-
room. There an obstacle awaited her —the door
was locked I Nothing daunted, however, she
sallied out into the yard, seized an axe, went back
upstairs, split tbe door into smithereens, and
dragged her recalcitrant better-half out of the
house by his masculine equivalent to feminine
back-hair. This, however, did not satisfy her.
She rested not until she had removed her husband
beyond the reach of the temptress, and took him
over to Brisbane, bag and baggage. Like the
Princess of Trebizonde, “ She was a wife, and no
mistake! ”
* * *
A new ground for divorce. The consti-
tuent parts of the human frame are said to be
changed every seven years. Consequently after
that time the man and woman who were married
are gone and the present man and woman were
not married at all. Therefore they should either
be married over again or divided. Sir Alfied
Stephen will please make a note of this.
The Germans are indeed “the Chinese of
Europe.” Here is a piece of bitter truth from
London Punch :
“ Young MUller—from Hamburg—accompanies the Miss
Goldmores m some of Rubinstein’s lovely duets, to the envy
and disgust of Brown, Jones, and Robinson. N.B.—Young
Miiller can also speak six JaDguagep, live on a pound a week,
work 18 hours out of the 24, and do without a holiday.”
The English send their boys to Eton, instead of
educating them to take a position in life. Their
boys play whilst other nations are taught.
No Australian servant-girl ever brings her
trunks at once to the home at which she has ac-
cepted a “billet.” On first arriving she is accom-
panied only by a small bundle —consisting chiefly,
it is believed, of rouge, rice-powder, patchouly, a
hare’s foot, and a “make-up” box. The big
boxes follow if she approves of th“ place- i.e. if
they will let her out every night until eleven and
not make a fuss when she bangs her hair and
wears two birds of Paradise and a turkey in her
hat. Those cats, the mistresses, now make it
part of the contract, when they engage a servant,
that the latter shall at once bring all her belong-
ings.
In the stalls of a Sydney theatre the other
night a fair one remarked to her male companion :
“ That's a nice young man (one of the actors), but
he has ugly legs.” The N.Y.M.’s nice little wife
happened to be sitting right alorgside the F.O.
ana heard the critique.
Charles Kdward Stuart, who says he is a
direct descendant of James 11., was run in the
other day at Auckland (N. Z.) lie was drunk and
looked as if a horse had “fetched him a wipe
under the ear.” From a numbsr of subscription-
lists found upon him it was ascertained that hs
had been badly mangled in a railway accident
and blown up in a powder factory. He had also
fallen from the mizzen-top of a ship at sea, he had
got a leg broken through being run down while in
an open beat, he suffered from fits, and had been
washed out while farming at Hawke's Bay. He
had tumbled down a sbaf l -, and he had been split
by a circular-saw. Under these circumstances
the new Pretender was sent to gaol for six months
to give him time to heal.
The Chinese Commissioners when in Mel-
bourne'visited the Bijou Theatre to see “ Mixed,"
in which Phil Gay figured as that grotesque scare-
crow, Bosco Blithers. Phil’s Bosco is a funny
character, if a man contains as much sense of
humour as a green frog Bo3Co’s grin, his com-
plexion, and paralytic limp, will dive into him
and reach it up; but those stolid Chinamen
sat the play out like plaster casts of their
own gods. Never one grin split a Celestial head.
A look of cold reserve, mingled with perplexity,
sat upon their faces, and the Chow dude 3 iu dres3
suits who attended them looked sad enough to die.
“ Mixed” will be described in their official report
under the head of religious observance.
The ladies who write socioty news for
the Melbourne papers don’t understand any
language except plain English—and perhaps
Irish. At a conversazione recently the gues’-s
talked French, Italian, and German to them for
two hours out of pure malice, and they only
answered by a nod and a painful smile all that
time.
The city of Sandhurst (Vic.) proposes to
jubilate by presenting the school children with a
medal value 1 Jd. One side of this work of art is
to bear a plan and elevation of the queen’s organ
A SKETCH AT THE LEVEE.
The man with the sword is the Consul. The youth with the rum is the Island
Monarch wham the Consul represents at Sydney.
of thought, and the Mayor, Mr. Patrick Hayes,
begorra is to have his name on the other. This
is the first time Hayes has had a Jubilee, be
jaber?.
* * *
It has been resolved that when the elite of
Brisbane roll up to vibrate Sir Anthony Mus-
grave’s paw, the aldermen must come at the tail of
the procession, the bar and the horse-marines
going first. When the attempt was made to
shunt the city men to the rear, however, they got
into a state of frenzy, and went off without wait-
ing to shake.
Melbourne will soon break out in a rash
of jubilee illuminations. Some publicans have
begun already with a portrait of the Queen in
their bar windows, which makes Her Gracious
Majesty appear in an advanced stage of intoxica-
tion This is the notion which is naturally asjo-
ciated in the publican mind with keeping up any-
thing, from a funeral to ajubiles. We suppose
this is the only way they have of embodying the
idea of the Queen being Glorious.
* * *
They are now saying in Sydney that if you
are a young man and marry one of the richest of
heiresses, it is just as well to see that she gets her
dowry in bank-deposit receipts if not in absolute
bullion.
A statue of the Queen has been ordered
for the pedestal in King-street, Sydney. Its price
is to be £3OOO, and the sculptor is Mr. Boehm,
When they get her Gracious in bronze, and set her
up on the long-vacant stone, they’ll have to make
her turn her back either on th@ Insolvency Court,
or on St. James’s Church, or on Hunt's Hotel, oron
the statue of Albert the Gooi. What will they
d) 1 Our idea is that she sheild face the Insal-
veicy Cou-t aid givo a side lsok at th 9 ho el.
“ Masherini” is the name given in England
to the baby-faced boys, varying in age from ten to
fourteen, who, tricked out with jewellery and
111 wers, last year made themselves the iaughing-
stocks of all their elders, save, perhaps, a dozen
foolish parents. It was indescribably ludicrous
to se3 these little nuisances, “got up” iu the
most approve!, only exaggerated “masher” or
(/ommcicx style —pointed varnished boots, eig o tee o ■
penny buttonholes, sticks, and hats (“ toppers”)
of Hardwickian glo3Sines3, “doing the Park”
with all the aplom') of men.
This dialogue is vouched for. Little Boy
(who has bsea reminded to say his prayers or he
won’t go to live with the angels) : “ M 1, do the
angels have wings ?” Ma, “ Yes, dear.” Little
Boy : “ Like Mrs Ray’s rooster ? ’
* * *
Now-a-days it is not so good a spec, to
marry the squatter’s daughter as it is to marry
the bank’s daughter.
Terrible have been the social results in
Sydney of a certain private company’s gigantic
call.
Hard up to connect the land of sugar and
rum with Her Gracious, the Anglican Bishop and
clergy of Brisbane, in their jubilee address,
grovel about a visit “not many years ago” from
“ two princes of your Majesty's royal house”—
two brainless youths, by the way, who, professing
to write a book about their travels, stole the best
part of it without acknowledgment from Charles
Kingsley. It will also, they say, “be a source of
satisfaction to your Majesty to recall the fact that
the appointment of William Grant Broughton to
be B'shop of Australia fifty years ago almost
synchronises with the period when your Maiesty
began your happy reign." As Vic. was not out of
her teens when the Rev. Broughton started to
cultivate this howling wilderness of a vineyard, it
is scarcely feasible that H.M.’s memory will recall
the “almost” synchronism.
* * *
At Tarnagulla (Yio.) the Jubilee is to be
celebrated by burning a dead cow, or, as the resi-
dents prefer to call it, roasting a bullock whole,
by way of a burnt sacrifice to the divinity which
doth hedge a quesn. The phrase, “pre-eminence in
beef,” appears to have touched their hearts, and
they think this is a good way to show it.
Melbourne Argus ha 3 at last let us into
the secret of its notions of Respectability. Writ-
ing of the decease of an unlucky suicide, it says :
“He wa3 widely-known and highly-respected in North
Fitzroy—being a prominent member of the local bowling-
club.”
No doubt the Argus, in this Jubilee year, looks
with favourable eye upon the game of bowls be-
cause there’s so much stooping about it.
One of the Hobart prisoners, who was
forced to Jubilate by being discharged from his
comfortable quarters in honour of the great occa-
sion, has registered a protest against Govern-
mental tyranny by stealing a side of bacon and
going back to gaol.
The Argus has a wire from Sydney stat-
ing that at a meeting of R.C's., held in St. Mary’s,
it was decided to complete the northern portion of
that Cathedral as a memorial of th • Queen's
Jubilee (!). The only speaker who even referred
to the aforesaid Jubilee, according to the re-
ports in the dailiep, wa3 the loyal and warlike
Dailey. What Cardinal Moran did say was that
the completion of the north portion of the church
would be a fitting celebrat'on of the centenary of
the colony. But the Argus must lug the Jubilee
in every where. Tue next thing that Evans and
H idden will propose is that the Pope should can*
nonize Queen Victoria in her lifetime.
The Jubilee racket has stopped getting
worse in Australia ; it is at its worst. There
is an illuminator who exhibits a very
effective pic ure displaying any amount of grovel.
In the centre thereof Victoria “by the grace/’
&c., sits upon the throne, a pair of her sons by
the grace, &c., stand by her, and the clouds are
opeuing above to enable the Deity to descend in
the form of a dove aud sit upon her head in the
shape of a cloven tongue of fire, whilst behind her
extends the German ho3t of her sisters and her
cousins and her aunts. The figure of Britannia
stands near by. Britannia is a vulgar creature
most unfashionable dressed Beneath the feet of
the throne there is a multitude, apparently iu the
act of worshipp ng her Majesty, and it (the mul-
titude) comprises sample individuals representing
the various nationalities she (Vic.) grace of &c’s
it over. They are all vulgar, most inelegantly
attired in next to nothing at all, probably having
pawned their “duds ” to subscribe to the Jubilee
Fund. But the Grace, &c., herself, and her
sisters and her cousins and her aunts, are dressed
in all that luxury and magaific nee can p-ovido.
The whole picture has evidently been suggested
by “ The Day of Judgment,” and Vic has been
“ jokered ” in in place of the Almighty ; the Ger-
man Host represents the ange's and tho saved,
whilst the various nations are the lost or —
damned.
Tho Miss Duffy who is about to become a
nun is Miss Susan Gavan Duffy, eldest daughter
of Sir Charles Gavan Duffy. Mias Duffy joins a
religious community at Ballarat. Miss D was
educated at Upton Hall Convent, Cheshire, Eng-
land. She has two younger sisters.
At the Consular dinner in Sydney, E. O.
Smith, the Cannibal Islands man, presided, such
great Powers as Russia, Italy, and Germany being
passed over, and France made to play second
fiddle to the Cannibal Islands by being put in the
“ vice ” chair. But the greatest international out-
rage of all was the exclusion of Mr. H. M. Wood-
house, the representative of that luxurious bar-
barian, the Shah of Persia, from the list of
speakers. The Cannibal Islands is the great “ com-
ing ” power of the world just now.
To estimate J ubilee gush at its miserable
value one must walk along Swanston-street, Mel-
bourne. Right across some large corner premises
is fixed a Jubilee arrangement of gas worked into
the following device :
v (Royal R
Crown).
That is “ loyalty ” pure and simple, dear friends.
Snook’s idea had better be adopted at Government
House and the Town Hall. “ The Governor’s
Grovel at Public Expense ” and “ Mr. Mayor's
Hysterics charged to the Rates” would look well
in transparencies stuck under a gas portrait of her
Gracious in the act of closing her left eye.
A Maryborough (Q.) editor suggests as one
way of celebrating the Jubilee that the town band
be driven to a lonely place and made play “ God
Save the Queen ” all day. It would be impossible
to do this with Sydney bandp. There are too many
pubs, on the roads. 0
Lovely woman appears able to take her
own part down South. A little while ago an
elderly official in a country district kissed a young
lady, not related to him, against her will; so
much to her disgust, that, seizing a pair of scis-
sors, she severed a large portion of his long grey
whiskers, of which he was inordinately proud,
reducing him to the painful necessity of complet-
ing the shearing process, and inventing a lie for
his wife’s benefit. Just lately, a man residing
near Hobart offended his hired girl while she was
carrying a vessel containing kerosene. She in-
stantly threw the liquid over him, and, as he had
a lighted candle in his hand, the result was a big
blaze which burnt him terribly about the face and
neck, and has left him in imminent danger of
losing his sight.
The wife of a Victorian parson died, and
the .bereaved widower resolved to erect a monu-
ment of Tasmanian stone to her memory, as the
Tight Little Island was the deceased lady’s birth-
place. He accordingly crossed Bass’s Straits in
search of freestone and oblivion, and latest ac-
counts seem to prove that he found both, for it is
said that he returned to Australia with a tomb-
stone—and a new wife.
* * *
Wi Pere, a Maori member, speaking in
N Z. Parliament against the Woman’s Franchise
Bill, remarked “ if beautiful women have seats
in the House they will play the very deuce with
those who, like myself, have susceptible hearts.”
Another member declared : —“That if a lady sat
next to him he should feel bound to accompany
her into whatever lobby she went. All she would
have to say would be ‘ Come this way, John,’ and
John would go teat way.” Imagine a charming
girl inviting a certain Minister into the same
lobby with her!
A sad case of loyalty under a cloud cropped
up at Melbourne County Court. A masher
1“ financial agent, ’ proceeded against for a £64
debt, was described as a man of ttanding, because
“he was at the Governor’s levee the other day.”
After all it isn’t remarkable that stone-brokers
should want to pay respect to a sovereign. Beer-
thirst was a great man at those levees until he got
knocked out.
N.S.W. country postmen are now provided
with a whistle. The calling out of the postmen
-generally brings the lady-help to the door with a
jug to take in the milk.
* * *
A male thing on two legs who practises
medicine near Melbourne narrowly escaped
an expose the other day. A married lady, in-
duced to consult him about a trifling facial
affection, was gravely told that she must appear
in the costume of Eve before the Fa 1 to admit of
a proper diagnosis of her case. After a critical
Tne lovely Rose Fairy Lamps and the wonderful Candle-
sticks hive been the theme of conversation in many homes
the past week. Bray Bros’. China Shops is where they are
9nly obtainable.*
The representation of wealth and refined taste is obvious
in the Brac-i-Biac appointments of a house, and many a
beautiful piece of furniture is spoiled by being in bad com-
pany. Choose well and wisely your services for Dinner, Tea,
or Toilet at the best place, which is Bray Bros., in George-
street.*
The most Artist ; c Costumes at the recent Balls were de-
signe d at Mrs. McCathie’s, King-street.
The best selection of Boots and Shoes to be had in S«dney,
and at a reasonable price, fur less than London or Paris, is
at Hust's Boot EmDorium, 408 George-street, corner of
Sydney Arcade. Point toes foi fashion, low heels for com-
fort ; to suit young or old, in fact, to suit everybody. Come
and see for yourself.*


a J Nto come ddered dupe the dear doctor
awi° n , Mean l, n , next week for further ex -
iimoh 8e " her hu^hl < nH ht l^ atieut c 0 aultedsome-
ll'°uble i u >. t n<i , tlus time—and '.here was
lu mat suburb.
• -■»»-\
o,". a , L «Ai.. ft ~;; 1 a series of - dD-uosurt* 1
a Motion Ltfa 111168 tesp ctmg the
gripoN Ool olie of young girls
than Mr cf*’ wa ° has a far rirm ' r
"to n ,, e of ®' ead, ihinks he can ex-
these " from th« °f procuring girls
w «ie^*n en 'tribute “labouring colonies. If
Wlotti dlsclosurea come off, some
W“»ai, like th« most representative”
SlaUfJ 16 scenes of fallows, homeward fly to
Stjs graoi oush J I , d th ‘ ,ir youth and kiss her
fcl* 6 o< f layS the memorial
<N»e b w ard wing of Melbourne
lfeve B * ®‘’*Pit-*i. r. e - r hadyshtp’s pardon!
her °Pea j u £g„ n t 3 19 months b.noe Gene-
nugone ” s j 10w fur this same wing with
to aN lriQ ty CnuTl c^er ' dignitaries
Nit Ht the S Kew (Meib.), on Juue 1,
n Wm J ' (d aughSr between Miss Maud
S 5 WuLt the dear old Dean, and
IlNth ’N°aVano«* m BiS h°P CO3, Dean
pbey had » hap Py yon no-' an dtwosupernumeraries
Si t}i B°rie 8 ° rie to aR S - cou Ple as tightly as if
SanN 6td oor k!l 8t / ars <>®ce and eubeci-
]*H the P h N ' w eddin/ n fo J a2O carat gold rin g-
Siftg i m N e £roorn wu nd , a P ret ty bride. Very
et6 Btm g U eni le cou , k ed pretty, too—but the
N s >°ns nothing 011 these in ‘
, At a, m *
p ara 01l i°° r ak (]yr„ 1K . .
Nn a N esse d hi a ’ cbur ch the officiating
kadj e ’ 'd lndi( S ” congregation as “Men,
H." and gentlem Pn He ought to have said,
* ’ and savages in the free
vNtte , ao • *
e P Lord
SiStaan the monL h T! 8 yot -” uis also
Portrait of b u* 8y peer has ordered
t'Mei' s UPblv vr° b himself in gas for the
A , * OWn g as from a meter
2S’wor Wi - dOW ° f the Duke of
in? d i« |,'., w kich we b ymg ® ir Henry Loch for
tonN PooiN llc y no hesitation insay-
-5 Promise her. Annie
ft? ty NN wi dow' Vlt w° Ut makin g suitable
C 4 v^tenff W® don’t know what
Vh ufc We do n 8 for his Widow when
kiffHouAPtovisinn tlow that he failed to
Wb>Nt 6h °ld when N the me mbers of his
atm? -Admiraf <, duty ” recently called
ShiN and sail for Malta.
I * u tati c a tie/ 1168 ’ gentle Annie will be
Ndy n asylum.
“at horn." on
liNyahip is d J ue sday, the 28th, at
h, * ae Oc casion C COu rse, eagerly looking
jAflej'.
is at work again.
in Day ” in fcbe SM-
feo^^^in e tk”o B > , eceiwM bilee march by Gu « lielmo
f ii hinS *So key 0 f a ropy. It contains two
68 ‘ fivi? being r „’. an d fi ' B > n B flat—and has
' ll fact 1 -’ IkuaVt 5 ’ bar * ab l e for a superabund-
re «s„ ‘ movement is preceded
Nil} ’ But 8 * accent on the first beat,
hcen’m? a^’ t the name of the
V 3 Of N ;i „ pri uted ? If not, would
B °ttK. comnofiN 111 the Herald’s des-
%tCyr But «n 0n ’ t 0 call it “The
m, » °Ur helov Prl nyway ’ who is the P er "
■ CojjP® St r, * a monarc h to “ march ?”
i^S?s^Snuf eg ° ( Melb ’) 01d
chair 1 * 18 time. 1 new men to their
tn IfPhlin r . a hd \Valto at Moloney is to
S >aU t u Ll hrarSn ° r M.L A , Dr.
A KaQd ßr. M’lnerney, B L ,
% 1 hom n°hey-M I contingent, con-
N >V ne y. Ift;’ a “ d C - D- O’Halloran
!? how tlid the dinn« e Sod> dity ” and the
Nsf I ' llls , wh lriUc h m ler an .d the diners last
L the Oo N fr ee ® cordiality will they do
* PParty i 1 accepted Masons are
%X, is a litti *
NNb A ,; T’ l ap(lk a r , ( \t 11 atlce even in the
ft iSiN CherS 2 -)’ Ah Key an d Ah
JSr5 W’ and w h w° man - Ah Chow was
iN in f ne m °onlight night
Hot , Ca, Uo UTin JU ? pi " g Ah Chow ’ 8
tth' li ' o ii^ a ' ge 'i-na d the arm ° U - hlm witb stealthy
% tir ll ®y by „ 'T'tb which he receives
CS>'btk olle uow a , fl dead,y blow from a
i a tbe ho Spi auguwhes in gaol, the
U *hau Pa yiug },,■ ’ while a third wall-
„ A % ' 8 res Pects to the gentle
r ft H.hooN Alelboft tbo OE sa y s that
<v?kr] e, ( l i'L,, g 0 t Public Library take
SSS hi> c iarke 8l l ep - olle day ’ loilg
'K^ o °tb \ v .that th« Was librarian, it was
his bom® WaS a mail in fche
halted Wirh t3 i. od * Marcus went
Sn'ht k't th etJ . hit of Q hr . the weary stranger :
’hi-kiu OoG, >i S clves,’' i lB t. lan gentlemen thus
\ 8 tt ' l fi tam n „. Bir, ’ replied the man
. Je W '' th f r a Christian nor a
jA f- Per fI Q , An d so he was. Now
Xbjhiely _ South.
fr ° m a London Society
the new silk gowns,
|he ski., ,, K km silk,” and are an
re in ark V ‘*,'-y light and flexible,
ISta nce way, and when
Wi|hlm, ®> the A Style ’ Sive3 the charming
.>‘s for the “ skm-
* \\b * hereby v’ 11110 garb of primeval
\ \ . 1 pan end to our misery
>SN V Ha, *
"I'ry'O'ooy o ail<> y, of Sydney,
b he bahv ,° nour °f the lady over
y - hnen sellers yearn, he
grew vicious, and proposed that those who ob-
jected to the mil i little embezzle should walk nut.
As a rule it is the minority that does the walking,
but when Mr. Riley is on the Jub with only
three aldermen out of twen f y-/our to help him, it
seems quite right tha 200 people should skip and
leave 20 to carry all before tnem m h -cause of
grovel The old old story of tne solitary jury-
man again. “ EUven more obstinate men I never
see’d in all me life !”
* * *
The Queen (London) under the heading of
“ The Upper Ten Thousand and Its Doings,” re-
cords the fact that Mr. J. H. Young has been
elected to the N.S.W. Speakership. This is about
the greatest rise the egg and butter market has
experienced since Bo’ any Bay was started. We
wonder whether the other Queen has yet heard of
Mr. Young’s election.
* * *
There was a little social event in NZ.
last week which started with a cuddle and
ended—alas ! —with a cowhide. Mr. Osarey, com-
mission agent (advances made on consignments
and all business transacted with promptitude),
was out "pursuing his calling when a tall male
blonde called on Mrs. Osarey and t ook her in his
arms. They squeezed each other, and Sarah
.Tan*-, who had her eye at the key-hole, saw them
do it and went down stairs and told Heliza Ann,
the next door girl, over the back fence. The
visitor and Mrs. Osarey afterwards had lunch
together and they called each other “ love.” Also
“ducky” Then Sarah Jane took to bursting in
A CENSOR OF THE PRESS.
RAILWAY PASSENGER (to newsboy): “HI, BOY! GIVE ME THE HERALD.”
NEWSBOY: “CAN’T SIR. A’INT GOT IT.”
R.P.: “HAVEN’T GOT IT? WHY DON’T YOU CARRY THE HERALD?”
N.B.: “CAN’T SIR AIN’T STRONG ENOUGH.”
every now and then with something or other that
- she had forgotten to put on the table, and the
guilty couple ordered her downstairs —not, how-
ever, before she had ascertained that they were
going to the opera together and meant to start
before Osarey came home. Then Sarah Jane went
out and told Heliza Ann that she would inform
master about that brazen baggage ; though honly
a ’umble servink the daughter of pore but honest
parinks she ’oped she knowed her dooty too well
to negleck it. She did tell Osarey, and the com-
mission-agent in his emotion capsized three chairs
and a vase while she was explaining ’ow she saw
them a-kissing as they sat on the sofa, and though
honly a ’umble servink the daughter of pore but
honest, See. That night Mrs. Osarey and the
stranger sat conspicuously in a box at the opera-
house, and Osarey and a cow-hide had a place in the
circle. He got close to them as they came out and
heard something about “ a few oysters,” and then
he waited hungrily outside a restaurant while the
abandoned pair consumed kisses and fish within.
They emerged and took a cab, and there being no
other handy Auckland was electrified by seeing
the legs of a stout elderly gentleman twinkling
behind the hired vehicle as he puflM wearily on
to what he meant should be a soene of gore. At
his own door they got out. and then aa they went
up the steps and rang the bell Osarey collared the
stranger and dragged him backward and swung
the cowhide aloft. Heliza Ann was watching
from the next window, and a ’umble servink, the
daughter of pore but honest parinks, was tittering
audibly. But at this moment Mrs. Osarey intro-
duced the stranger as her brother, and Osarey
suddenly recognising him lifted him out of the
gutter and penitently scraped him down and
apologised. But unhappily Sarah Jane and H*liza
Ann keep telling the story with variations,
and N.Z. is now a very hot place for at least
one respectable commi?sion-agent.
• * *
Sir Alban Riley, K.0.M.G., Lord Mayor
of Sydney, is ker-rushed again. He called a meet-
ing in Sydney Town Hall to consider the question
of a Jubilee bun-gorge for the loyal children,
and the meeting resolved almost unanimously
that the Sunday-school currant-bun should not
grace the occasion. The great scheme was kicked
into a shapeless mass, and the proceedings ended
with tears. The Sydney D.T. kindly point*
out that the Republican portion of the audience
went on puffeckly hawful and “ were permitted
to do this by ihe circumstance that those who
sympathised with the action of the Mayor were
almost unanimous in staying away,” but this
seems a rather knock-kneed explanation at the
best. Either nobody worth speaking of eared a
cent, ab ut the great project for the extension of
stomach-ache among ihe coming genera i n, or
else the washed ■ ut butlo' al majorit y sympathised
so lit le that they “couldn’i be bothered.” A
hand of devoted subjects, who roll up once
in 50 t ears to tes ify in a g od cause by sitting for
an hour on a bench are ha diy w >rth counting
The “loyalists’ of Syds ey are evidently d video into
three classes: she lawyers drapers. and whisky-
sellers woo expect t he made KC. '.G.’s; he
Governor, who is a class by himseJ , a. d 1 mg may
he continue so; and the great mass of mon-
archists who loaf at home and say, “Haw, yes
s'pose somebody ought to do something for the old
lady on an occasion lDe this.” Apathy of this
kind is enough to damn a very much better cause
than that of Victoria and her depart'd Brown,
and it has shrivelled up Mayor Riley’s feeble
attempt to edit a slop-and-dumpling burst at tne
pubhc expense before the weak minded project
had time even to get on its feet.
* * *
The mother-in-law difficulty has been
lately disturbing the Capetown (South Africa)
Supreme Court. Having made a comfortable
home, a gentleman named Tiffany decided t >
fetch out his best girl from England and make
her happy. The young lady got ready and sailed,
taking with her, besides other things, her mother
They were welcomed by the expectant b ide-
groom, who commended his future wife for her
dutiful conduct in fetching along her female
parent. As soon as the knot vas tied, however,
the bride coolly informed her husband that she
had not the remotest intention of living with him
as his wife, but had simply married him as a
bread winner for herself and her mother. With
a malediction on women in general, he applied to
the law for restitution of conjugal rights, and
subsequently for a decree nisi. When the Judge
asked him if anyone had accompanied his wife on
her voyage, he replied in a bitterly sarcastic
tone, “ Rather.”
The Sydney children’s demonstration on
June 21 is to be a soft-goods jubilee. All the girls
are to wear a sash with the obnoxious word on it
in big capitals, and a lot of obtrusive loyalists
from York street, Sydney, are anxious to supply
20,000 symbolic rags at a reasonable profit. All
millinery.
*. * *
The evangelical Bishop Goe, of Mel-
bourne, neither drinks, smokes, nor keeps a bull-
dog, and the pup-sty in the back yard at BDhops-
court is now empty. Dr. Moorhouse used to sidle
out to the back door with a pipe in his hand and
“sool” his quarrelsome mongrel on to unoffend-
ing strange dogs, and then, if the sacerdotal brute
was g 'tting the worst of it, he would steal behind
the other animal and hand him over the fence by
the tail. But these innocent recreations are a
thing of the past. Even choral services are more
than poor Bloomsbury Goe can endure.
* # *
A pretty letter with a Jubilee <adge for
its end and aim and a signature of “ Lily Carring-
ton ” at the tail is now going round the N.S.W.
press. It contains a nice allusion to “ a Sovereign
who has always been sympathetic with distress,”
and in virtue of this poor Mayor Riley has once
more been bounced into calling a public meeting,
and is again steering the to tering collection-hat
down the dim vista of emptiness and sorrow. But
we fear it will come back with nothing in it this
time—all along of that unlucky remark abont the
Queen’s “sympathy.” The people of N.S.W,
have come down at last to cold prose. They want
food and boots, so that mere sympathy falls flat,
and moreover they only get that after they are
dead, and even t hen only if they are blown up and
leave a lot of widows and orphans behind them.
And what’s the good of sympathy to a corpse ?
Those who, like Lady Carington, belong to the
aristocracy, may he privileged to know and to ad-
mire the benevolent spirit of Queen Victoria ; hut
it is somewhat unfortunate that the stupendous
benevolence attributed by certain interested per-
sons to Her Majesty is not within the cognisance
of ordinary people. Anyhow, we forgive Mayor
Riley. A letter from Her Excellency commencing
“My dear Mr. < aynr,” and winding up “ Yours
very sincerely, Lily Carington.” is enough to
enchain the h: art of ar y re iied draper. It
might even convert us from Republicanism.
* ’ * *
IT* v Gracious Majesty’s representatives in
the cdenies meet with unpleasant rebuffs now
arid ih«n In he course of a lice, ihe other day,
one o thei'* i x *■! on !• s waited i o toss a furry,
and he -ailed loudly to the retry-man, who e
movements were somewhat deliberate. Hs Excel-
lency then he an to raise hi-* voice, which brought
the horny-handed one along ‘ What the
are you shorning for? ’ asked the man. “Do you
know to whom you are t.lking?” replied the
Governor. " No, and lam if I care,” came
the answer ; and it took ail the illustrious person-
sonage’s powers of persuasion to get the man to
take him across. The ferryman noiv l-nows who
his passenger was. He has g t ‘ ihe sack ” V\ hich
incident recalls an advent ure that befell a certain
Governor of Vic o ia in the gold-fever days “Do
you know who I am? asked HE of a bullock -
pui cher who had blocked the way of toe guber-
natorial gig. Do you know that I am Governor
?’ “Oh you're the Governor are you?
Well, then, old man, you’ve got a (blanked) good
billet, and mind you stick to it!”
* * *
Mr. and Mrs Alfred Bem-ett entertained
a larae number of adult and juveni e guests at
NTithsdale on Friday evening last. Most of the
younger visitoro were in fancy costume, and the
majority turned up as dukes and kings. As a
rule they looked better than the average duke and
the ordinary king of everyday life. This state-
ment is meant as a compliment.
* * *
The annual Volunteer ball was held at
Narrabri, N.S.W., on the 24th May. The ama-
teur soldiers appeared in full uniform and the
ladies, we arc informed, were much better
clothed than on previous occasions.
* # *
On Thursday last Chief Justice and Lady
Darley entertained Lord and Lady Carington at
dint or,
■* * *
On Wednesday, Ist June, the Hon. H. E.
and Mrs. Cohen entertained over 50 guests at
Lansdowne, Darlinghurst.
* * *
That fashionable annual event, the School of
Industry ball, was held on May 31st at Sydney
Exhibition building, Prince Alfred Park. The
hall was beautifully decorated with ferns, palms,
evergreens, Chinese lanterns, and flags. Lady
Carington was attired in pink gauze and silk
diamond ornaments. Lady Darley wore a cos-
tume of black velvet trimmed with white lace ;
Lady Manning appeared in pale-blue brocade;
Lady Robertson in black.
* * *
When lady Brassey visited Adelaide she
asked that the children at the local State schools
should be granted a week’s holiday in honour of
the occasion. Apropos, we only wish to remark
what a tail our cat has got, to be sure !
At Christ Church, Newcastle, N.S.W.,
was celebrated the marriage of Miss Ethel Har-
court, the well known operatic artiste, daughter of
Mr. D. Vernon Harcourt, Melbourne, and Mr.
Herbert Justin M'Carthy, of Sydney.
* * *
Adelaide Exhibition arrangements are
being varnished over with the surface piety for
which that New Jerusalem is so famous. It is
understood that bar-waitresses are required to
produce references of the “highest character”
before they can hope to be engaged for this moral
Jubilee show. Personal attractions—as partaking
too much of the Fiesh and the Devil —find little
favour with the caterer. The angular Hebe who
brings a hymn-book is preferred to the touching
young thing in bangs and a big bustle. “ Morals’
are still in great demand at Adelaide, the Grooks
and Walker frauds notwithstanding. Well, it’s
all right. So long as the management keeps a
.sharp eye on the tills there is no objection to the
barmaids hanging up Scripture texts above the
bottles.
* * *
It is quite the correct thing now, when
one doesn’t know enough people to fill a
large room, to ask the visiters to bring some of
their friends. But it isn’t correct for the visitors
to take advantage of this as a cheap means of
entertaining a wealthy uncle from the country
who carries a large red pockethandkerchief and
suffers from a perpetual cold.
* * *
At St. Mary’s Cathedral, Sydney, on Wed-
nesday last, was solemnised the marriage of Miss
Riley, sister of the Mayor, to Mr O'Neill, bank
manager at Granville. A large number of visitox-s
were present. The bride was attired in the ortho-
dox white satin; and the six bridesmaids anpeared
in white merveilleux An elaborate wedding-
break ast was given at Tulloona, Burwood, and,
notwithstanding the heavy rain, everything went
off successfully.
* * *
According to the cable, Bishop Barry,
late of Sydney (for we don’t suppose he will come
back to tnis part of the vineyard any more), has
set himself upas a redable authority <n drink,
and has. at a ladies' meeting in London, described
the people of N S W., e pecially the upper classes,
as much more given to liquor than those of Great
Britain. We are now at liberty to presume that
his lordship, disguised as a waiter, has dropped
into private rooms at fashionable Sydney restau-
rants from time to time and there surprised stout
creatures in velvet and lace as they refreshed
themselves with brandy and buns after the
fatigues of shopping ; also that he ha - -*, disguised
as a reporter, sat. in the pit of the theatre and
watched Sarah and her young man as they im-
bibed gin surreptitiously out of a pork-pie. We
are qui e sure the Bishop would never trade off
facts got at second-hand.
“ 1 like cold weather,” she said — “ there’s
no danger of perspiration taking the powder off
your face when you’re hugging.”
Mormon residences are evidently not built
to accommodate the growing necessities of Mor-
mon families. In a three-roomed house in Ogden,
Utah, lives Wm. Bingham, two wives, 20 children,
five married sons with t heir wives and 20 children,
and two hired men in the attic.
There is stdl living at Chatteris, Eng., an
old lady who was orn on St. Valentine’s Day, one
hundred years ago—a year before » aptain Arthur
Phillip landed with his little colony of felons on
Dawes’ Point. The old lady’s great-grandson is
ten years’ old, and her children, grandchildren,
See., number one hundred.
0 draw testh a ® *° a
optic) e^^le Spectacles, properly
St «hL«; Ofc*. sb. per pair. Pebbles,
‘‘V* dt) . kina J? and Hunter,Spectacle
n S-street (fi, a6 floor.) “ : ~>-
Sipht
The combination of ingredients used in making Rowley’s
Cough Emulsion is such as to render t the best-known
remedy in the world for Goughs, Golds, Asthma, or Bron-
ohßis. Itcanbe obtained direct' froraW. M. Rowley, I 'Chemist,
Bourke-street, Fast Melbourne. Price 2s. fid. per bottle, and
from all chemists.*
Dr. Frederick Ware, having returned from an extended
tour of the Continent and America, Brings with him all tnat
is new in Dentistry. Dr. Ware has Resumed Practice, and
may be consulted at Kidman's BuMdings, corner Woorge and
Market streetß. Take Rift.*


Referee
The six-round encounter between Dooley
and O’Donnell, at Sydney, was a rattling and even
affair, neither man claiming any advantage at the
finish.
« • *
It is expected that Heame, the New Zea-
land champion, will represent his colony in the
Deeble big sculling matches on the Parramatta in
January next.
Steel-bladed oars are the latest thing in
aquatics. They are said to be lighter, truer, and
stronger than spruce.
Mr. George Hope, a returned Tasmanian,
says that horses of the calibre of the Stockwells,
Maluas, Blink Bonnys. Sheet, Anchors, and Assy-
rians are not to be seen on English racecourses.
* * *
Hanlan says that despite his defeat by
Gaudaur the other day, he will carry out his en-
gagement with Beach. Should he do so, he will
be pretty sure to carry away some Australian
dollars with him, win or lose. Hanlan and Bay-
cock’s row on the Nepean was a financial failure
to everybody except the principals, but then that
was such a palpable “ hippodrome I ” They are
endeavouring to galvanise Ned Tricket, now at
Rockhampton, Into rowing once more : and a late
cable states that Hanlan and Gaudaur are to pull
again shortly, Hanlan being dissatisfied with his
late defeat.
At Sydney Suburban Bicycle Sports
last Saturday Con Dwyer won the three-mile race
from Bennett on bhe post, but it looked as if
Bennett eased up, and that Dwyer was victor on
sufferance only. At the previous meeting Bennett
had won two events, so Dwyer's win necessitated
the running off of the ten miles, which proved an
easy victory for Bennett. It is to be hoped ws
have now seen the last of Bennett and Dwyer on
the Amateur racing track, for they have blasted
for the present a pastime which promised a short
time since to take a big hold of sport loving Aus-
tralia. Jenkins, who won the three miles' club
championship on Saturday is a “heeler,” and may
do much for Australian bicycling.
The six days’, six hours a day, bicycle
contest in Melbourne was won by Wood with 534
miles 3 laps, Wyburd being runner up with 534
miles 2 laps. At 444 miles Wood was one lap
ahead, and he kept the same advantage till the
finish.
» * *
Mr. Stephen Fairbairn, a native of N.S.W.,
now at Cambridge, will make one of his Univer-
sity’s eight to go to America and row Harvard.
Perkins, the English scu'ler, sails for Aus-
tralia in the Iberia. The ship that took away the
Soudan Contingent should waft him to glory here.
Perhaps George's expressed opinion of Beach may
have improved a little since he was on the Parra-
matta four years ago.
As the Judge wouldn’t certify to costs in
the Head v. A.J.C. libel action, the plaintiff’s
victory was just one farthing better than the
defendant’s defeat.
* *
Weather permitting, the Sydney Grand
National meeting will come off on Saturday. The
results may be : Flying Handicap, Blairgowrie ;
Winter Stakes, Invader or Lancer; Grand National
Hurdle race, Glenduart or Goodwood; Grand
National Steeplechase, Studley.
About £2OO, says no less an authority than
Mr. John Mayo, would drain Randwick race-
course. Then these annoying postponements would
cease to trouble the public., and owners would be
at rest.
Jacob Gaudaur is 29, stands 6ft. Oijin.,
weighs 12st, 21b. in condition, and, says Beach,
“ looks more like a banker than a sculler.”
A story is going the rounds that no less
than seven jockeys were engaged to ride a certain
horse in the Sydney Royal Stakes. We always
thought Centaur and hiß rider were conglomerated.
In Melbourne, last week, they plugged up
bookmaker Saqui's latchkey-hole, and while
he was fumbling about it at 2 a.m. they knocked
him over the head. He cried out and the
thieves ran away. He had £5OO settling-night
money in his pocket.
The Prince of Wales has already got him-
self into trouble on the English turf. His horse
Hohenlinden won a steeplechase, but was pro-
tested against on account of his having been
wrongfully described. Well, of course, tbe loyal
stewards, after a slight investigation, came out
cap in hand to the noble owner and besought his
royal forgiveness, begging him to take the stakes
and forget the slight contretemps ? Not at all.
They disqualified Hohenlinden and awarded the
stakes to the second horse !
* - *
Tom Cannon swore in court that Connor
“ wrestled with a vim and determination he had
never met with before.” It was all along of the
two glasses of grog on which Connor completed
his training. No vim ordinaire —something
“stiff,” very “stiff." A joke is buried there-
about, if you like to dig for it.
* * #
The recent Grteco-Roman wrestle between
■Cannon and Connor at Melbourne Exhibition
■building, followed by a heavy wash of dirty linen
in the police court, has provided “sports ” with a
•congenial topic of conversation. As six thousand
men (and a few women) paid their money to wit-
ness the deadly struggle, it may fairly be de-
scribed as a matter of some public interest —
worthy or otherwise. Connor, a hitherto un-
beaten man, recently met Cannon at the Alex-
andra Theatre, Melbourne, and made a holy show
of him. Anyone seeing the two men perform on
that occasion was forced to the conclusion that it
was 10 to 1 on the winner. Cannon was the
heavier of the pair, but his heaviness appeared to
be his weakness. The wrestlers met again—as it
is their business to do as long as the public roll
up—and this time the stakes were increased and
the agony piled up in true business-like style.
For this second encounter Connor, the hitherto
unbeaten, gained first fall in 12 minutes. He was
all over and around Cannon as before. Yet, in the
face of this remarkable evidence of superiority
following upon his victory at the Alexandra, cer-
tain “books” were anxious to lay even money
that Connor didn’t win ! Any child knows, or had
better know at once, that when two men or two
horses, of presumedly equal ability, are matched,
the exact odds are 3 to 1 against either man or
either horse winning twice in succession, as Can-
non then had to do in order to pull off this event.
Say, for instance, that Jones and Brown have
wres'led 12 falls at various times, winning 6 falls
each. If they are then matched to wrestle two
successive falls on the square , bookmakers could
afford to lay 5 to 2 against both Jones and Brown
for the double fall. An even money chance of a
“ draw ’’ would be the bookmaker’s justification.
Therefore, in this case, Cannon’s professional ad-
mirers must have been born fools unless they
“ knew something.” Perhaps they did. Anyway
MURRAY RIVER LAW.
WOOLYARRA J.P. (with knightly condescension): “MORNIN. MISTER CLARK ANYTHIN)
AFORE THE COURT THIS MORNIN’?”
CLERK: “YES, YOUR WORSHIP. A CASE OF REGINA VERSUS BROWN.”
J.P.: “FETCH UP THE CASE.”
CLERK: “CALL JOHN BRJWN.” (Brown is located in position by a red-headed policeman.)
J.P.: LOOK SHARP THUR. WHERE'S THE PLAINTIFF?"
CLERK: “REGINA IS THE PLAINTIFF. YOUR WORSHIP.”
J.P.: “THEN WHY THE DIVIL DON'T YOU CALL REGINA?"
CLERK: “REGINA, YOUR WORSHIP, IS A LEGAL FICTION.”
J.P.: “A WHAT?"
CLERK: “A LEGAL FICTION, YOUR WORSHIP. I'P MEANS VICTORIA.”
J.P.: “EH! WHAT? ALL VICTORIA AGIN ONE MAN. ILL BE NO PARTY TO SUCH
INJUSTICE. I DISMISS THE CASE.”
CLERK: “BUT, YOUR WORSHIP, VICTORIA SIGNIFIES THE QUEEN AND CROWN,
NOT THE COLONY."
J P.: “THEN WHY THE JAMBEROO DIDN’T YER SAY SO AFORE?”
(Court Adjourned.)
... „
their confidence was rewarded, for Cannon won
the next two falls and the match. The sequel is
nrettv well known Harrv Dunn a “ Coomber-
pretty well Known. Harry Dunn a Goomoer
land style ’performer, twitted Connor with ar-
ranging his match. There was a row between
Connor and his trainer, Graham, leading to police
court relations. Grab Am swore that Connor grew
careless in his training shortly before the match,
and so conducted himself on the occasion of the
deadly struggle as to convince Graham that the
M r„i f 1 Hlll Hntmo se if wasn’t sold
game was sold. But suppose it wasn t so
What a noble sport is wrestling, when even the
trainer of the “ champion ” doesn’t think his man
is trying, and another “champion” boasts that he
crnt a hit nut of the harnev I What an imnrovine
p f *, ’ f _ t-rava-oga
performance for 6000 people to patronise and 6ef
'upon! The same day that Graham 'blew on
this famous struggle. Peter Newton, another
otKiotn moa f aaaanlHnff n
renowned athlete, was fined for assaulting a
Essrcssi-'iss
n gentry P drag sport through the dirt.
* * *
We don’t want to teach our grandmothers
to suck eggs, but the only way to time footraces
is from the flash of the pistol, and not from its
report.
According to the “Vagabond,” an Eng-
lish visitor at Randwick reckoned up N.S.W.
racing as “a cut-throat game between owners
i and bookmakers as to which shall pocket the
money of the public.” The new chum had evi-
dently been “ had ” with a succession of stiff-’uns
belonging to owners whom the breath of suspicion
never, &c., &e.
» • *
Melbourne footballers are now distin-
guished by numbers stuck on their manly breasts
corresponding with numbers on the k’rect card.
It is pleasant to hear the girls shout, “ No. 6 is
down and No. 9is stamping on him.” Just like
steeplechasing, only much more so.
* * •
The old question, “ What’s an amateur?”
has again cropped up—this time in Melbourne.
The too frequent answer is, “ Anything but a
gentleman.”
* # *
It is said that the owner of Roquefort gave
the well-known English “ amateur,” E. P. Wil-
son, £5OO ten days before the Grand National
Steeplechase, not to ride anything in the mean-
time for fear of accidents. Roquefort, with 12st.
81b., was well up until the very finish, when he
swerved in the straight, and, fouling a post, went
down. What sort of an “ amateur ? ”
If it is true that Hanlan really intends
sailing for Australia “in spite of his defeat by
Gaudaur,” a certain amount of suspicion attaches
to the recent match. Hanlan’s backers are gener-
ally credited with knowing how many beans make
five, and it is incredible that they would send
their man to face what would be, on paper, certain
disgrace We have to remember that Gaudaur
will probably accompany Hanlan to Australia.
The two men have one common interest —to make
as much money as possible by their adventure.
And if Hanlan has regained his old form he could
have no object in letting the cat out of the bag by
defeating his friend. Gaudaur is a trial horse
who has already raced Beach to a standstill. If
the American stable backs Hanlan in earnest for
the Nepean race, he must be dangerous —very.
Nearly every racing club wants to jubilate
on the 21st prox. Inevitable consequence : Clash-
ing and frosts Big betting gone bung. What
would they say now if a big wager like Miller,
Jones, and O’Brien s (in 1882) —£50,000 to £250
against Navigator for the V.R.C. Derby and
Gudarz for the Melbourne Cup—were laid ? Navi
gator won and Gudarz ran third Glenduart,
the Moruya farm-horse, who astonished everyone
by the way he took his jumps and the bad way he
was steered at Randwick last Autumn meeting,
has returned to Sydney with plenty of Melbourne
polish on. Glenduart is certain to start first
favourite for Tatt.’s Grand National Hurdle race
next Saturday Football going ahead in Vic-
toria. Two other colony teams visited already.
Heaps of interest taken in the Botany
(N.S.W.) Sheffield. Ashworth, Cummings, Ken-
nedy, and half-a-dozen others each backed by
their respective “ stables ” to win The
Amurkan papers explode with ecstacy over the
shipment of Australian horses by the Alameda.
Explain, Mister Myers, please. By the way, that
gentleman has remarked to a Melbourne sporting
writer that the Victorian horses were not
malformed, and that Flemington is the
greatest racecourse on earth. Humph !
Ashworth favourite for the Botany (N.S.W.)
Sheffield at 10’s (tkn) ; L. E. Myers is down to 30
to 1 (off) All the Randwick training tracks
have been closed for the past week Why didn’t
the band play the Dead March while the bicycle
races were crawling along at the Sydney A. C.
Ground last Saturday? Carington winner,
Moxley, ran rings round the black sprinter,
Kingsmill, at Brisbane —£50 aside The invin-
cible Gordons were beaten on the Sydney Agri-
cultural Grounds by the Rosedale football team.
Great excitement for sixpence Melbourne Cup,
2500 sovB. this year. Srdney Great- Metropolitan
Stafces sticks at its paltry 500 sovs. Not enough
to run straight for in the face of the Cup Mr.
Alcock, A.J.C. time keeper, resigned. Cause
will probably be stated hereafter.
CORRESPONDENCE
Ilia Bulletin will return all unsuitable MSS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of such
MSS.
“ R.W.M.” (Brisbane) : Very well done ; but
tell us, why did you ever do it ?....“ George Forbes’’
(Bega) : Thanks !.. .“ Senex”: Will consider your
“ hint.”. ...** Como" : A company in which a shareholder
holds unpaid shares has the same remedy that any other
creditor would have They can sell him up for the equity of
redemption, and after paying auctioneer’s eis., legal costs,
&c., apply the residue to the liquidation of his debt; should
there be any sum left it would be then given to the debtor by
the company. They can sue, and if they obtain a judgment
can issue a writ capias ad satisfaciendum if he has capital, or
if in a situation they can garnishee his employer....“ FR" :
There can be no agreement of lease without an assigned
date : the fundamental basis of a lease is the definition of a
period ; “ a year or two ” cannot be considered as evidence
in relation to a lease “M. Kirwan ” Your contention for
& plebiscite is utterly untenable when you admit personal
reasons for electing a candidate. If you are a protectionist
and vote for a freetrader because you like him personally
you disfranchise yourself and cannot reasonably grumble if
you are governed by a freetrade policy. Measures, not
men, is the true principle of political representation. (2.
The suggestion has already been made in these columns....
“ J.S.” : Next week, perhaps “W. Read” : Your only
remedy lies with the members themselves ; you must show
them that their true interests are in co-operating ; you can
employ no measure of coercion or retaliation “Bernard
Elston”: “ Sad was her groaning” savours of the farm-yard
with a vaccine heroine “ P. W. Nicholson ” (East Bun
daberg): See leader of last r week on Federation v. Disinte
gration....“ Z. Watson” (Deniliquin): Thark you very
much !....“ Whistler” (Forbes): Will read...." Random
(Newtown) : What are you driving at? “ Rowdy Fijian":
Not surprised ; have a whole cityful of grovel nearer home
“ Oyster Johnnie ” : Oh !...." C.R.8.” (Petersham) :
Should like an interpretation of your hieroglyphic “ screed.'
“John Brown” (Darlinghurst) : Will read “Adam
Phoole” Will read “ Republican ” : Thinks “ Kurra-
gong " : Will one day fend you the desired shadows. But
publish them—never “ P. B. Coglin”: But why, if your
colony elects a Governor, should his election be “ con.
firmed by the Queen?”...." An Irishman but not a
Patriot ” : Thanks. If you fancy you’re strong
enough to boycott The Bulletin, go ahead
“ Short Slip ” (Telegraph Point) : We don’t wish to hurt
your feelings, but we wouldn’t like to be found dead in the
street with your item in our pocket. It would lead to un-
pleasant reflections regarding the brains of our corpse....
“Dempsey " (Terrick-Terrick) : Thanks for item....
“ L.L.8.” : While men continue to settle quarrels by force
of arms, woman cannot hope to be recognised as “ in every
way man’s equa1."....“ Argus": Right you are....
“ C.M.G." : Costs Much Gr0ve1....“ M.M S.” : Not much,
considering that Justice Kay called the Mount Morgan
West affair “ a most atrocious fraud.”....“ S.M.R.” [Leich
hardt): Quite the contrary. Competition from the Bombay
cotton mills is driving Manchester goods out of the India
and East African markets..“ The Devil’s Broke” : Thanks..
“St. Giles”: Will print your letter as soon as possible.
Meanwhile, we may tell you that you are wrong in your sur-
mises as to the authorship of the article io question, which
happens to have been written by a man born and bred in
England, and who graduated at an English University....
“ W.W.”: If a mangled bank-superintendent means over
£26,000 damages, what would be the cost of a mashed engine-
driver? Give the answer in half-pence “Celt": If you
are a good shorthand writer and are otherwise well-educated,
you can always get a living. Shorthand is indispensable to the
reporter. ...“Working Man”: We don’t want The Bulletin
to be read free at any Mechanics’ Institute. The clergy,
bless them, are doing us a great service ..“A Robinson”:
Will publish your letter “Charles M.” (Adelaide): Many
thanks “Racobite”: Write again “Emu Jam” (Queens
land): There was such a lean, heartbroken look about your
items that we felt compelled to hustle them into the stove
“E.A.” (Wallsend): Thanks. Notat present “E.L.D.”:
Good idea “ Reader No, it is not usual. Banks, when
they accept .documents for safe-keeping, undertake no re-
sponsibility "Deutscber’’ (Sydney): You are much too
subsequent. The “ad." you send us is three months’old,
and we published the joke long before you were out of bed.
“Subscriber” (Numurkah): Thanks, but why not cut
out article and enclose it instead of sending paper under
separate cover ? In the present state of the Post-office it is
even betting that we never get it “ 8.5.8.”: She can’t
write poetry, bvt she hits the nail on the head every time—
“ She lives by you, not you bv her, so she should be so
grateful,
That you have let her reign so long, and filled her every
plateful
With m-rcies great, and honours bright, and treasures truly
stateful.”
We thoroughly agree that it is Vic.’s turn to “ shout.”
“ S.S.”: A purple nudity in pink slippers “Martin J.":
Yes, Muller did confess that he murdered Briggs. There is
no doubt whatever about it.... “ Scalp Hunter We really
must decline to advise you.. ." Gingham”: A beautiful
idea....“ “ Mechanic': No. Abigail didn’t pay us the £25.
“DonaldS.": Your verses are all good, but, n >t being
topical are held over indefinitely. Please call when in town.
„.."JA.” (Paddington): Yes Mr. Johnson, Hu*»ter-
street. Sydney....“ Heavy Weight Carrier”: Will enquire
“The Stranger”: Next week, probably “ Chas.
A. H." : May shortly avail ourselves of your offer.
The tobacco interest of South Sydney,
which was on the verge of being crushed out of
sight by Sir 'Enry’s excise duties, somehow voted
solid on Saturday last for Wise and Parkes.
Rumour has it that the tobacco manufacturers
received intimation that the duties would be
abandoned if Wise were returned—not otherwise,
and the Government are rather more than sus-
pected of having given away £25 000 a year
revenue to secure the Attorney General s return,


BRIEF MENTION.
Pastoral Rents—Pew charges.
The Jubilee rain—Seven days’ wet.
A Crimes Act—lmperial Federation.
A German Band—The Royal Family.
Ominous ! Ringnose Wise got in by
.forty.
Tasmanians are agitating for whale fishing
in the Antarctic Ocean. The whaling trade is
now confined to the Murrumbidgee.
The daily papers tell us of prisoners being
“ fully committed for trial.” But we never hear
of any criminal being partially committed.
A Rockhampton sheet, writing about the
local celebration of the Queen’s Birthday, says :
“ The Volunteers then fired a fou de joie.” Bou
is good.
Dunolly (Vic.) has not yet taken any steps
to provide for the celebration of the Jubilee.
Dunolly is evidently ahead of some of the other
townships.
A carrier at Blackall (Q.) hanged himself
with a bullock whip. No cause is assigned, but
it was probably the failure of his professional
vocabulary.
Everything finds its proper place at last.
The Melbourne Daily Telegraph is now used to
line coffins. Corpses buried in these are guaranteed
never to wake.
At Redfern (Sydney) Court, Bacchus was
fined 20s. or seven days’ for drunkenness. This
old toper should have got twelve months as an
habitual inebriate.
The Arawa (N.Z.) Maoris have written
home to the Queen to ask her to present them
with a church-bell 7ft. high and 24ft. in circum-
ference. They probably wish they may get it.
“You whistled 1 ” said Mr. Purves to the
driver of the train that was smashed at Windsor
the other day. “ Yea.” “ How long was the
whistle ” “ About five yards long,” was the
petrifying reply. And yet they talk about a future
life I
It is rumoured that the Mayor of Mel-
bourne has received three advance copies of that
Jubilee Testament, in all of which Her Gracious
has written a text with her own hand. The rest
of the edition will have the brand of Cain affixed
by the lithographic process.
From a report of a bush concert in the
Queanbeyan Age: “The schoolboys then gave
their masterpiece, ‘ Drink, Puppy, Drink !’ and
showed that they had been well schooled by
Father .” What does this ambiguous dog
mean? Schooled by example, or precept?
These head lines are from one recent issue of
Sydney E. News
‘ Blown to Ribbons,’ 1 Lost her Sails,’ ‘ The Bondi Sewer,'
A Painful Case,' ‘Sydney Hospital,’ ‘Alleged Case of
Garrotting,’ 1 Buggy Accident,’ ‘ Fire in 1 Hebe ’ 1 Sudden
Heath in the Glebe,’ ‘ Loss of the Nightingale,’ ‘ Bulli Relief
Fund,' ‘O’Brien Mobbed,’ ‘Obituary,’ ‘A False Rumour,'
’ The Gag,’ ‘ Horrible Fatality,’ ‘ A Bad Spill,’ ‘Deadly De-
pression of Spirits,’ ‘The Mount Rennie Criminals,’ ‘ Railway
Accidents,’ ‘ A Boy Hurt,’ and * Cab Spill.’
Here is a savoury list embracing everything calcu-
lated to make an ordinary human squirm. It
ranges from sevagc to dynamite, from shipwreck
to murder in the first degree.
Thomas Purdy, a “respectable” resident of
Forster (N.S.W.), has been sentenced to eight
months’ gaol for criminal assault on a little girl.
As some New South Wales judges we know of
would have given him 15 years and two floggings,
we have come to the conclusion that the squint-
eyed female who manipulates the scales of justice
is getting to be less and less reliable every hour.
One day she is a zephyr alleviated with balm of
Gilead, and the next she is a perfect gorilla and
will pound your skull with a brick for merely
looking at her.
More disloyalty ! At the largely-attended
and thoroughly representative biennial meeting
of delegates of that influential and respectable
body the Grand United Order of Oddfellows, held
in Sydney last week, a motion to the effect that a
congratulatory address should be sent to
Queen Victoria had to be withdrawn because of
the strenuous and almost unanimous way in which
it was opposed. The daily papers didn’t say
much about this appalling fact.
A NEW DISCOVERY
Hoffman’s Eucalyptol (mixture and injection) positively
cures all urinal and kidney complaints and discharges,
inflammation, grave l , lumbago (pains in the hack), &c.
Purely vegetable, contains no balsam (pai a) or sandal wood
All principal druggists and storekeepers. Price 2s. 6d. and
3s. 6d. Take no substitute.
Theatre royal.
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr, Sam Lazar.
EVERY EVENING at 8 o’clock.
LITTLE JACK SHEPPARD
LITTLE JACK SHEPPARD
LITTLE JACK SHEPPARD
Prices, ss. 3s. and Is.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway's Hotel.
LOCKE RICHARDSON.
“ Takes rank with sdch artists as Brandram
and Clifford Harrison, if he does not surpass
them "—Sydney Morning Herald.
“ In the very first rank amongst the actors of
the Any."—Daily Telegraph.
FRIDAY NIGHT, JUNE 10th.
HENRY IV.
iViONDAY AFTERNOON, JUNE 13th.
A MATINEE PERFORMANCE
(by special request),
THE CHRISTMAS CAROL.
WEDNESDAY, 15th.
SHERIDANS BRILLIANT COMEDY,
THE RIVALS.
Y M C A HALL— Prices 4s. 3s. 2s. Family ticket
for six £l. Manager, L. J. LOHR,
WONDERS! WONDERS! WONDERS!
WONDERS OF THE WORLD ! !
MARVELLOUS Wonders of the whole World
is a vast Museum of all that is marvellous
and wonderful in the earth, sea, air, and skies.
Unparalleled opportunity for making money fast.
Free on Application, circulars and full par-
JONES, 611 George st., Sydney.
c
RITERION
THEATRE
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
THIS EVENING, and Until Further Notice,
MISS CARRIE SWAIN
MISS CARRIE SWAIN
will repeat her unexcelled impersonation of
} SWAIN
f THE TOMBOY
\ THE TOMBOY,
CARRIE
received last night by her admirers with unfeigned
DELIGHT.
FAREWELL PERFORMANCE
of the
BRIGHTEST STAR in the THEATRICAL
FIRMAMENT.
Admission—ss., 3s , 25., Is.
Box plan at Nicholson’s.
MONTY BROWN,
Business Manager.
Alhambra music hall
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp.
Minstrel Shows come and go, but we go on
for ever.
OUR THIRD YEAR. OUR THIRD YEAR.
HANG OUT OUR BANNERS ON THE
OUTWARD WALLS.
THE CRY IS STILL THEY COME,
WE READ OUR HISTORY IN A NATION’S
PRAISE.
Orchestra Chairs, 2s ; Stalls, Is; Balcony, 6d.
Grand Sacred and Classical Concert every
SUNDAY EVENING, at 7.30.
EW OPERA HOUSE
Under the Management of Mr. B. N. Jones.
Brief Farewell Season of the World Famed
MINNIE PALMER.
MINNIE PALMER.
PERT and Her Stepmother PERT
PERT and Her Stepmother PERT.
By Arrangement with Mr. CHAS. M‘M\HON.
A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL.
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, ip you miss Foley’s you
HAVE NOT SEEN THE CITY.
Department of Public Works,
Bydney, June 7, 1887.
Tenders for public works ana
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the following PU BLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-offlce in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten
ders are opened, and the name of the successfu
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notioe are strictly complied with
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
dfg
JOHN SUTHERLAND.
BARB'S” GRAND CONSULTATION on the
JUBILEE HANDICAP, run May 21st,
1887. 6000 members, each 10s. First horse, £1000;
2nd, £300; 3rd. £2OO. Starters, £200; Non-starters,
£3OO, divided amongst them. Cash Awards—
-5 at £5O, 10 at £25, 20 at £lO, 20 at £5, 80 at
£2 10s. each. Early application is requested, a'd
please register letters to ensure safe delivery, and
enclose two stamped addressed envelopes for
reply and result. “ BARB,” care of T. G. Green,
Guildhall Hotel, Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
Melbome Cup, 1887,n0w open, 20,000 subscribers
each 20s. First horse £lO,OOO,
gYDNEY EXHIBITION BUILDING.
THE COLUMBIA ELITE
ROLLER SKATING RINK.
Open Afternoon and Evening to the Ladies,
Gentlemen, and Young People of Sydney as a first-
class POPULAR AMUSEMENT, where good
order and decorum are rigidly enforced,
The largest Amusement Palace in the world de-
voted exclusively to SKATING.
2000 Pairs of the Finest American Skates, and an
acre of the most beautiful skating surface,
are at the disposal of lovers of this
FASCINATING AMERICAN SPORT.
Mr. H. J. WALLACE, the Premier Roller Skater
of America, has been engaged, and will appear
every evening in a graceful and elegant perform-
ance of Artistic Skating.
ADMISSION—ONE SHILLING.
THEATRE ROYAL,
ROCKHAMPTON.
THE above is the only Licensed House in
Rockhampton for holding Theatrical or
other Entertainments, and can be engaged for
any term upon application to
CHARLES NASH,
Lessee.
THE AUSTRALIAN
LOAN, DISCOUNT AND FINAN-
CIAL COMPANY,
Limited.
ffij
1
Mill
mm
■
HEAD OFFICE =
CORNER OF MARKET AND YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
INCORPORATED, JUNE, 1886.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO STERLING.
RESERVE, £3J ,661 4s. STERLING.
THE AUSTRALIAN LOAN, DISCOUNT AND FINAN-
CIAL COMPANY, Limited,
transact all usual Banking Business. Current Accounts
opened, Drafts issued, Bills Discounted, and Advance upon
all kinds of Commercial Securities.
OVERDRAFTS GRANTED AGAINST DEPOSITS
OF DEEDS.
Deposits Received
Interest Allowed
At Call, 41 per cent.
3 Months, 6 per cent.
6 Months, 7 per cent.
12 Months, 8 per cent.
WITH BONUS ADDITIONS TO DEPOSITS OP
SIX AND TWELVE MONTHS.
f Depositors can arrange to withdraw the whole or portion
of their deposits, without notice, and will be allowed current
interest for the period of deposit.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
H. M'NAMARA,
SECRETARY.
DR. RICHARDS, {I
To Weak, Nervous Invalids, and others
seeking Health and Strength.
M.A., Oxon.
M.R.0.5., England,
DESIRES to publicly announce that he has
permanently established himself in Sydney,
and may in future be consulted at his rooms, No.
7 Spring Street, FREE OF CHARGE, by that
increasingly large class of sufferers whose nervous
complaints can only be competently dealt with by
an experienced specialist. I Cure every case un-
dertaken. When I say I cure, I do not merely
stop them for a time and then have them return
again, I mean a radical cure. I have made those
ailments, which are the result of negligence, a
,ife-long study, and can safely warrant a cure
after personal consultation. Carelessness in many
cases has brought about a state of weakness that
has reduced the general system so much as to in-
duce almost every other disease, and the real
cause of this scarely ever being suspected, people
have been doctored for everything but the right
one. Notwithstanding the many valuable remedies
that medical science has produced for the relief of
this class of patients, none of the ordinary modes
of treatment effect a cure. During my extensive
hospital and private practice in England, I have
discovered new and concentrated remedies, and
with the ÜBe of my extensive Galvanic Appliances,
am in a position to guarantee a cure in every case
undertaken. Consultation costs nothing, and I
will tell you at once whether your case is curable
or not,
DR. RICHARDS, M.R.0.5., England,
7 SPRING STREET (off Pitt-st., Sydney.
GUT THIS OUT
and keep it for reference, and
REMEMBER
that the Only Address of the
mm lISTEUMEIT
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION
is
674 George Street, 674
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
Eight doors from Goulburn-street,
Where you can see the
Largest, Finest, and most Superb Assortment of
all kinds of Musical Instruments and Fittings
ever seen in the Southern Hemisphere,
From a JEW’S HARP to a CHURCH ORGAN,
Direct om the European manufacturers to
the Australian consumer.
Sole Agents in Australia tor
SIGNOK ZAMPANANI’S
Celebrated Roman Violin Strings,
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/6
5/- and 5/6 per set.
Also, every description of Strings for the Viola,
Cello, Double Bass, Banjo Guitar, Harp Zither,
Mandoline, ,‘Kolian Harp, &c., &c.
10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality: Tyrolese Violin, with case, bow, and
instruction book, 35/-.
~ Italian Violin, with case (lock and key),
Bow, Tutor, and extra set of
strings, £2 10s.
~ French Violin, with extra finished
oase, full mounted how. Tutor,
2 extra set of strings and fittings
£4 10s.
4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-,
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Speciality : Steel noted Bosewood Concertina
in box with key... ... ... 35/-
, Splendid Organ-toned Concertina,
in box with key 21/-
7IA
ACCORDEONS, at 7/6, 10/6, 12/6. 15/-, 17/6, 21/-,
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, to £6.
Speciality : Miniature Accordeon, double bellows,
strong tone, 21/-
~ Ditto, oak wood, patent steel notes,
42/-
~ The “Jubilee” Accordeon, patent
broad reeds, in wood box, complete
35/.
BANJOS—S/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/6, 15/, up to £l2 12s.
FLUTES—I/6, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 10/, up to £lO
CORNETS—4O/, 45/, 50/, up to £l2 12s.
Brass and Dnim and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT.
All kinds of Instruments skilfully repaired
at moderate charges.
All instruments carefully packed and forwarded
to any part of the oolonies.
Orders promptly attended to.
P. O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
674 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,


THE CHELMBFORD CASE.
The Chelmsford Essex News, the leading paper
of Essex, says
“The family of Mr. George Lester, who have
resided in Marriage’s-squarc, Chelmsford, for
twenty-three years, have just met with a thrilling
experience. The particulars of the event are so
remarkable that they have created quite a sensa-
tion in the neighborhood. The facts as be-
low have been duly vended by us, and are of such
general interest that they should be made public
everywhere, inasmuch as there are no doubt
thousands of families who can profit by the in
telligence thus conveyed.
“About eighteen months ago the son of Mr.
Lester, a youth of seventeen, was attacked with a
peculiar and painful ailment of his ankles and
muscles, which so disabled him that he was obliged
to stop working at his trade- that of a baker.
He was placed under the treatment of a ski ful
physician, and notwithstanding every attention,
he received no benefit, but speedily grew worse.
His condition hecame so alarming that further
medical aid was called in, but he still failed to
obtain relief. The malady of the youth had now
assumed such a violent form that his condition
was pitiable. He had completely lost the use of
his ankles, and was unable to walk. It was only
with the aid of crutches that he could move ab Ait
at all, and even then not without experiencing
the most intense pain. In the language of his
parents, he was completely crippled. He wae
then sent to one of the leading London hospitals,
but there also his suffering were not in the
slightest relieved. He had now been crippled for
nearly a year, and every treatment having utterly
failed, he and his parents were almost in despair.
Having read in the 'Jhelmsford paper of some
remarkable cures wrought by a remedy recently
introduced for the cure of pain, the young man
was led, as a last resort, to make a trial of one
bottle of the same. To use his own words, he was
greatly relieved after having applied the article
but once, and he was able to walk without his
crutches in ten days from the time he purchased
the first bottle. After using three bottles he was,
strange as it may seem, actually able to resume
his work, and is now free from pain, and leading
his former active life. His cure seemed almost
miraculous to all those who are familiar with his
long, agonising sufferings and his previous help-
less condition; and St. Jacobs oil was the only
remedy he used.
“ When a representative of this paper called on
Lester, in ordtr to see for himself what this
magical remedy had clone for him, the yourg man
could scarcely find words with which to express
his gratitude at his recovery. He remarked that
St. Jacobs oil had transformed him from agony
and misery to joy.”
The Proprietors of St. Jacobs oil are sincere
and positive in all they allege in regard to its
virtues and have offered large rewards for proof,
showing that any testsmonials published by them
are not genuine.
In Spain, if a poor man’s child dies and
he has no money for burial expenses, he simply
hangs the corpse on a hook out- ide the cemetery
gate, aad goes off home. The Spaniards are a
charitable race, and presently someone pays the
necessary fee to get the remains out of sight.
The latest alligator story from Port
Douglas (N.Q.) A gentleman was riding through
his land, which borders the river, when he saw a
huge alligator in mid stream but a considerable
distance further down. Having no gun he
wheeled his horse round and pushed homewards,
and after he had gone some distance turned to
have a look, when, to bis horror, he saw the
monster coming through the water like a dart in
his direction. In making off in hot haste his
horse came a cropper, and when the rider
eci ambled to his feet he was considerably relieved
A SYLPH’S MALICE.
FAT WOMAN: “IS THERE ANY ROOM INSIDE!"
THIN WOMAN: “YK-E-S. THERE’S A LITTLE ROOM—ROOM FOR ONE, I THINK.”
I to find the alligator scuttling into the river. The
tracks on the muddy ground showed that the
alligator had get within fifteen feet of the horse
and rider when the former fell, and appeared so
like some monster prepared to do battle that the
cowardly saurian turned and fled.
Clipped from a Sydney daily : —“ A fur-
nished single room to let, suit a gentleman, with
every convenience. — Stanley-street, Hyde
Park.” :—
We hastened (being homeless) for that chamber
to apply,
But the landlady, with cold hauteur, just fixed us
with her eye:
“• You have not gas laid on throughout— you are
not kalsomined !
You haven’t an electric belt,” said she, with smil
unkind—
“ Win re's your asphalt? Your patent stove ?
Come, now, me quickly tell 1 ”
We vanished out into the night with a despairing
yell.
The other night, Mickey Mulligan, a farm-
labourer up country, dropped in to see his old
“towny,” Dan. O Driscoll, who has 120 acres of
good land. Mick, while sitting at the blazing
fire, having a pull at the pipe, cast a covetous oye
on some of his neighbour Dan’s goods—to wit, a
dish of nice-looking prints of butter, which Mis-
tress O’Driscoll had just turned off. When Mick
found the coast clear, he dropped three or four
prints into his caubeen, which he placed on his
head, and he was found pulling away at the
dhudeen in a thoughtful manner and gazing at the
blazing logs, when the O Driscoll’s returned to the
kitchen. Mick had, however, been spotted when
he laid larcenous hands on his neighbour s pro-
perty. Knowing that butter (like Mick himself,
when he has been over to see Pat Hegarty, at he
Shannon and Shamrock) is often in the “ melting
mood,” especially wheu in close proximity to 3cw r t.
of blazing firewood, Mick thought “he’d be afther
I goin’.” “ Begorra,” says Dan, “ you’re not goin’
to do anything o’ the sort. You’re goin' to have a
dhrop o’ sperrits and wait for tay.” Michael rose
to go. Like the pig in Lover’s song, he was
“onaisey in his mind,’ but he was pulled down
into his seat again by the “ iaynial Dan,” who
cried out, “ Pull nearer the fire and roast yer
shins, Mick. It’s moighty cowld the night.” And
suiting the action to the word he lifted Mick and
his chair into alarmiDg proximity to the blazing
logs Mick looked helpless. Presently he began to
mop his Iforehead withaied “grinder." He re-
peated the operation several times. “ Take off
your hat, man!” says Dan, and he pulled the dirty
bit of headgear off Michael’s pate, when, lo and
behold ! several prints of the best Wollongong, in
an advanced stage of liquefaction, were discovered
on Murphy's polished skull. . . Michael got a
new pair of pants the next day, and “ strained
relations” exist between Daniel O’Driscoll and
himself.
3T>r. SCOTT’S
ELECTRIC CORSET.
These goods are sent out in a handsome box,
accompanied by a silver-plated compass, by which
the Electro-Magnetic influence can be tested. If
you cannot get them in your town, we will send
either kind to any port or railway station in New
South Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named with Is 6d. added ; or will mail direct to
any address upon receipt of stamp to cover full
postage. The prices are as follows :
s. d. | 8. d.
No. 1 Corset ... 6 6 No. 2 Corset ... 8 6
No. 3 Corset ... 10 6 I No. 5 Corset ... 15 6
ELECTRIC BELTS
For pains in the Loins, Lumbago, and weak backs,
nothing compares to the magic support of an
Electric Belt. Price 155., post free 18.
We will send by mail on receipt of the price
named, with one shilling added, either size of this
beautiful Brush, post paid to any part of N.S.W.
or Queensland ; or request your nearest druggist
or fancy store to obtain one for you, and be sure
Dr. Scott’s name is on the box. Money returned
if not as represented.
Remittances should be made payable to PALL
MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION, 56 Margaret-
street, Sydney ! P. 0., Box., 221
fpO OWh ERS OF WATERBURY’S.
The invaluable Waterbury would not be the
cheapest watch in the world if it could not be
repaired at a low cost. But if anything goes
wrong with it the owner has only to take or send
it to the offices ef the Waterbury Watch Company,
at 56, Margaret-street, where it can be repaired
at a cost according to its requirements, but in no
case exceeding 2s. 6d. unless by mutual censent.
The cost of transmission by post or pat cel delivery
on wati hes sent from the old country must be pre-
paid, and a sufficient amount to cover return
charges and cost of repair forwarded at the same
time. If sent in the box in which the Waterbury
is sold, the postage fee (including registration) is
2s. eaoh way.
HEALTH
EuCAWCE
Children starving to death on account of their
inability to digest food, will find a most marvellous food and
remedy in Scoit s Emulsion or Pure Cod Liver Oil
with Hvpophosphites. Very palatable and easily di-
gested. Read the following testimonial: “ I have prescribed
‘ Scott s 1 mulsion ’ in cases of children suffering from
wasting and mal-nutrition, and can report most favorably of
its good effect; It has been in each case taken most readily.
W. Perkins, M R C.S.,
Medical Supt., Burleigh Hospital, Eng.
Large and small bottleß at all Chemists.”
Tattersall’s Monster Consultation, Winter Stakes, run
June 4, and the Jubilee Handicap, run June 21; each
2000 subs., 20s. now open and filling rapidly. Apply
Tattersall. care <3. Adams, Pitt-street.'
One ef the best managed and cleanest hotels in Sydney is
the Great Northern, corner Charlntte Place and George
street. Having been thoroughly renovated, Travellers will
find it the cosiest place in Sydney. The shilling lunchenn
there is immense ’
ACCIDENT IN THE TRAM.
“Oh dear! If you will believe it,” said a
blushing and pretty barmaid who was iust return-
ing from the Coogee baths. The tram stopped
suddenly, and threw the blushing girl into the lap
of a commercial traveller who had the presence of
mind to hold on to her a few minutes. His face
lit up like an electric light. But the girl’s didnt;
the dear little creature excused herself, and said
she was sorry for landing so suddenly. The
traveller drew himself up to a smiling point, and
expressed his willingness that she could do it
again. You should have see the elastic smile on
Nellie’s face, and the bloom of youth stealing
through those bright eyes, which were as full of
mischief as her little bar is of the famous St.
Louis Lager Beer.*
Balsam of Virginian Prunes a most effectual remedy
for the Coughs, Colds, Croup, Asthma, Influenza, Hoarseness
Bronchitis. Shortness of Breath, Ae. Bignev, lato Mitchell,
King-street. 1 '
NOTICK !—Beware ef ymmg Wine. DriDk only Hookings
high class seleited eld vintages, fer invalids. 13 Pitt-
street. *
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF WINTER GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Price*.
SEA SARPINT YARN THI
Built of the best seasoned and choice picked
CEDAR it measures 6ft in width, stands imposing
in height, with a high shelf back, the UPPER
PARI’ of which is fitted with a plate of best sil-
vered glass running the full width. Thtee draw-
ers in frieze and three enclosed cupboards with
open racess space below cupboards. Poiished in a
first class manner and having all' be appearance of
Spanish mahogany, it is fit for a HUXEL or MAN-
SION.
AND WHATISIT. WHAT IS IT. WHAT IS IT.
Well, its i hat WO ' DEuFUL SIDEBOARD which
is having so remarkable a sale at £8 10s. It s
LAWLER’S, remenber : so call and look at it;
YOU’LL SWE , R lIS VALUE AT 15 NOTES.
There’s a lady lives next door to me, and it’s a
treat to see her these cold mornings. There she is.
MERRY AS A LARK, with a face the picture of
health and lips of the cherriest red. She sings
like a thrush, and why 3
WHY! WHY! WHY? TELL US WHY? TELL
US WHY? Why, it’s because she enjoysanice
night's rest upon the most delightful bed that
mortal being ever slept upon—ONE of Lawler’s
JAVA KAPOK Mattresses a r 10s.
Let poor folks remenber we have them at 30s. also.
We know a miserly old codger about 85 who got
hold of a sweet piece of RIB about 22, and he
WOULD bringker up after his own fashion; so he
trotted her off to a auction sale, and QUILP-like,
made a bid for one of the COMMONEST-looking
bedsteads that ever entered an auction room AND
THAT’S SAYING A DEAL. However, HE liked
it; IT WAS CHEAP.
Ha was hale and hearty the night he fixed it
up. He threw himself down npon it, and WHAT
DO YOU THINK?
WHAT DO YOU THINK 1 WHAT DO YOU
THINK? WHAT DO YOU THINK? BROKE
THE BEDSTEAD, PERHAPS? Aye, and more so
laugh, ye furnishing demons, laugh. He broke
himself, and now limp 3 round after sweet 22 with
a dot - and - carry - one sort of tread that he never
would have had had he have gone to LAWLER'S
and bought ONE of his EXTRA TH.CK-PuST
HEAVY ANGLE IRON BEDSTEAD at 42s 6d.
A fellow we know vouches for the TRUTH of
this STORY. 0-.ce upon a time an elderly, thrice
WIDOWED widow, whose PURCE was INTACT
if her BEAUTY was not—got hold of robustlump,
anew chum, who came out here for MONEY
and NOTHING TO DO, and, who found botd.
BUT AiTaOHED TO A WIDOW. Notkiug loth
—for he was one of triplets limit elf. he went for
the TRIO, widow, money, and nought todo Now
she THE OLD BUT ANXIOUS ONE, had used to
cry forairmoreairandndiculed the ideaof cui tains.
Now as the tale goes, she went to bed as woman, whe-
ther maid, married or widow will do. Of course,
soon followed “ George,” But as bad lack would
have it, ‘‘George," who was an agricultural
educated sort of young man, had barely got into
his FIRST nightmare when he imagined himself
buying a horse whose age he was determining by
ITS TEETH ; and groping about he had got his
hand to the LATEjjwidow’s mouth, when, horror
of horrors, he awoke; and there in the light of
the moon —the dear, pale, steadfast and silvery
moon, was “ George’s ” present possession. ’Twas
enough—one look, no more. He dressed, collared
all that was portable, and cleared to FURTHER
enlarge his acquaintance with mummies and
kindred ancient relics.
THAT WIDOW, who patiently awaits the pass-
ing of the new Divorce Bill, swears by all that’s
serenely blue that it all happened because she had
not got
WHAT?
WHAT? WHAT? WHAT?
WHAT was it the WIDOW HAD NOT GOT ?
Why, CURTAINS at Lawler’s to have shaded
her from the light of the moon.
Handsome sets from 455.
EDGAR ALLAN POE it was who told us the
story.
A sullen, sulky, ill-tempered but conoeited
fellow, who was always on the growl, didn’t like
his diggings, was a heart-scald to his landlady,
and who never was satisfied unless a half dozen
courses were regularly prepared for him in change
for 20s. board money, with washing included, was
found to be SO DISPOSED simply because of a
oorn on his foot and a tin tack in his boot.
The landlady could not afford to let him leave,
so she coaxed him into conversation one night,
with the result that she felt his feet —no, his
boots. The mystery was solved. In less than a
week thereafter he was the life and soul of the
house ; increased his board money by 55.: swore
his landlady was a trump; gave the Chinaman
cook his old boots —the boots t hat had been all the
trouble, and all because,
BECAUSE, BECAUSE, BECAUSE,
Because he was sensible and went and bought his
boots at LAWLER’S, where boots that never breed
corns and tintacks are unknown.
Mrs. Brown’s boy, “ Willie,” the terror of the
neighborhood—the boy who shook his father’s
tobacoo and bartered it for marbles, who took the
crow out of the next-door’s rooster with a well-
directed brick, who shot crackers under Martin
Phelane’s milk-cart, and sang out “Hurroo” as he
introduced Martin to a lampost; who ridiculed
the idea of Tommy W illiams goiDg to a barber
whilst he was about, so bor.owed a scissors,
bunsed the threepence, and didn t leave a hair on
his head; who brought ‘‘Harry Robson’s” big
bull-dog round on Sunday when all was quiet and
the Joneses at church, so that the Joneses' cat
could have a quiet, a religions and a full, square
struggle; who went for the supper beer, took a
swig on the way, and made good the deficiency
with water; who never felt happy unless the
knees of his knickers were out; who would lave
been a credit to Australia if he had been allowed
to go on as he wanted; and who would have gone
on as he wanted were it not that LAWLER’S
Emporium had been mentioned to his mother as a
place where
BOYS’ TROUSERS NEVER WORE OUT.
Off they hauled him to
608 GEORGE-STREET,
The Main Entrance to
LAWLER’S,
And having fitted him out with LAWLER’S
Boys’ Indestructibles, he now stands a RE-
FORMED mortal, objecting to the wicked ways of
he boys of his police-neglected neighborhood.


xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
XXX XXX X XXX X XX X XXXXX X X X XX X X X
XX XX
XX Plena* ‘*r you Uiis In XX
XX The IRmletin. XX
XX XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
WK WILL .HKLL 10 YOU 10.000 XX
XX
ARTICLES DURING THIS SEASON XX
AT SUCK REASONABLE RATES
TUAT Wic WILL ECLIPaE ALL
PB&VI0U8 KITKURTS.
A ri*u.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
HORDERN* BROTHERS.
211, PtU-KUMIt.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
X X X X X X X XX X X X X X X X XX XXX XAXXXN
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
CH4
PATENT
LLS
PI
&
4r«
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &c. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for thev have
done "it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills; and
they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEECHAM’S
PILES for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the system. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are ‘‘FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society ; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAMS MAGIC COUGH PILLS
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Beecham’s
Cough Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be
removed.
Caution.— The public are requested to notice that
the words “ Beecham’s Pills, Sb. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the .proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. lj|d. and 2s. 9d.
each. —Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B.- -Full directions are given with each box.
Everybody \
SHOULD USE/
PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
PLOTJK!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest andmostapproved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
lg GUARANTEED VERY GOOD,
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
RBI Gkodoe-stheet. Sydnby.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY'
PARIS, 1*78; CALCUTTA, 1881,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson’s Newest Perfumes
FAGRJEA & CYMBIDIUM
ire or rare and peculiar fragrance, ana being
registered can be obtained only of the
Inventors or their Agents.
ATKINSON'S QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the raowth and
improving the appearance o( the hair,
guaranteed perfectly ham less
ATKINSON S FLORIDA VTATER
wceptionally fine pcrtume foi the hand-
kerchief, distilled from the choice t exotics.
0/ all Dealers , and of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
21, Old Bond Street, London.
Trade Mark—“ White Rose" on“ Golden
k Lyre.” A
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
BBISBANE.
THE above has been known for some years as
being the oldest family and squatting hotel
in Queensland. There is a large drawing-room
exclusively for ladies, without extra charge.
Amongst other additions- lift and fire-proof stair-
case, invaluable acquisition to hotels. First-class
Chef, can cater in a very superior style. Electric
bells every room. Suite of rooms for families.
Hot and oold baths every floor. Large banqueting
room. Sample room.
.0. H, DANIELLS, Eropriotor]
A SOVEREIGN RIMEDY
.0 a)l Affic'ced with Rheumatic Gout Tic-
Dcioreux, Aching Pains in thi Limbs
Face, cr Head.
W hy antter those excruciating Fains when one
bottle of
HR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No chsnge in diet
necessary 1 In Pottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CUES i O . .BLIGHT
ROSE'S CELEBBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy foi Bad
Eyes. It uju only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
I.S agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufaotureo,
Prepared by the Sole Propriefcc»i
fl, A. BOSE, Pharmaceutical Ok. mist,
53 only
Commercial Hotel, Gympie, Queensland,
THE above is one of the oldest Family and
Squatting Hotels in the oolony. Prices
reasonable. Sample Room.
Superior accommodation. Hot and Cold Baths.
Mrs. W. COMPIGNE, Proprietress.
“LIGHTHOUSE BRAND,”
Manufactured by the
LONDON PORTLAND CEMENT COMPANY,
LIMITED,
Successors to the original Firms of
J. G. GOoTLING and Co,, and GOSTLING and Co.,
LIMITED.
And the SOLE PROPRIETORS
Of Their “ Marks,”
D. F. WATSON, 51 Chancery lane, Melbourne
Sole Agent.
GRAND HOTEL,
BUNDABERG.
Under New Management.
FINEST SAMPLE ROOM IN THE COLONY.
PLUNGE AND SHOWER BATHS.
Good Stabling, and Loose Boxes for Race Horses.
DRAWING-ROOM FOR LADIES.
Having engaged a first-claes chef, I am enabled
to cater for the public in a first-class style.
ALF. P^THOMAS,
Proprietor.
S. F. PRIDDY & CO.
Having purchased Bankrupt Stock of
AT
ONE THIRD OF USUAL COST,
are now retailing them
BELOW ENGLISH COST.
Special Lines :
English Zephyr Felts, at 7/6
usually 9/- to 12/6
Do, Do. Do. at 5/6
Usually 7/6 to 9/-
At our two Establishments,
438 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Lassetter’s,
AND
662 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL.
ticura
3*
'S
Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form, of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
§§o
m
Borofula on I\eck*
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsom Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, dimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Disease of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
tier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Boap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston. TT.B.A.
T. SILBEEBEEa ds CO.,
32 MARKET STREET, Corner of Clarence Street, Sydney.
IMPORTERS OF THE FAMOUS SILBERBERG SEWING MACHINES, and the DURKOPP
WHITE MACHINES, the best and cheapest in the market.
Agents wanted throughout the eolonies.
DOLPHOWOLIES
bON
&C
17 CREWIN'
W^mbur o
msxos) Qot*ze'
x?S Jze' / a&cetq/£
7 sy & V ff
fD
,; Ml ILLUSTRATION (In reduced alee) 3f j6l Order to be found In the
‘ LARGE BOTTLES" OF WOLFES SOHNAPP&
JJRADjRY, NBWI9N, fc LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and O'CONNELL BTREETS
d
d*e> » PIANOFORTE,
dbOO guaranteed
Bound, strong, and durable
Triohord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, bril ant
tone, In handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves (or
cash only,
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Oon-
nell-street.
lot
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s 6d.
Bradley, Newton, & lamb.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—a very complete
Assortment, just opened, many quite new
designs.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, NeW'
ton, and Land*.
Full suites for dining room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, ell
to match.
D
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
ALNUT TELESCOPE DINING TABLES,
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
w
fg
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS
in
GREAT VARIETY.
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB,
Spring & O'Connell sts.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.
VERY ELEGANT. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
~\T OVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
_LI SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
& Connell-street.
WALL-MIRRORS and BRACKETS, novelties
in Plush and Velvets, and in all Woods,
from ss. 6d. each.
Elegant Venetian mirrors, richly
enamelled, in colours. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
df
Drawing room cabi
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
FußHmwa Warehousemen,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
Drawing-room furniture.—The latest
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOSaNY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Manufacturers, Spring and O’Connell streets.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS. —Handsome,
fashionable designs in black and gold, with
side shelves; also, in oak and walnut wood, at
all prises. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and o’@onnell
streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs oovered to order In
any material.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
gd
Bedsteads, »u sizes
Niokel-plated and Blaok
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding,—All descriptions at
lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and;
LAMB,
Importers,
O'Connell and Spring Streets,
f
SPRING MATTRASSEP
Woven Wire, bei
make; alao, Spiral Sprint ■
Price, from lie. eaoh,
BRADLEY, NEWTON and LAUB


“A Generous Offer.”
FAT CAPITALIST: “NOW, DON’T GO AND SUE THE COMPANY: YOU’LL GET NOTHING BY IT. I’LL DO MY BEST TO PERSUADE THEM TO LET BY GONES BE BY-GONES.”
WIDOW: “AND YOU WILL LET MY DEAD HUSBAND COUNT AMONG THE BYGONES, I SUPPOSE?”


*& LOVELY SKIN,
sasswa- - !
- * a ll T”'v smooth and delicate neck, face, hands and arms canbes f be obtained
on the fiirin ? n< * cosmetics and cheap soaps, which, not being allowed t©
Kin Cann °t possibly have any good effect on it, and by using
KpwlandA’
Kalgdor
Xposedfo the hca?, and refreshing preparation for the face, hands and arms of all
IS’ sunburn atin£o °* summer or the cold and damp of winter; it eradicates freckles,
water, removes nimni redness an d. r °ughness of the skin caused by cold winds or the use of hard
.mS. SnoM., • yunpies. Snots. rlisr*r»lr»vafvir»r»c nPiilHlaina a/r&am a inflsvmmnt/irm
bm r ’ ren >oves niml>i re<lness ar “d r °ughness of the skin caused by cold winds or
~u ™ s, scalds infill;, j 3 ’ B P°ts. discolorations, chilblains, eczema, etc., relievos inflammation,
pleasant. (Jn n ti a,aet * ®yes, and renders a chapped and rough skin delightfully smooth and
f! s Warranted from? a * ter having will find it allays all irritation and tenderness of the skin;
n of the mnrf j i? ra . 4n >' lead or mineral ingredients, can be used with impunity on the
si „ . delicate lady or child,
Ue 2s. 3d., 4s. 6d. and Bs. 6d. per bottle ; bottles of half the usual
••HR L .A|pS’ MACASSAR OIL
DnU/i . c °lf»ir for fair-haired people.
1 ODONTO
vp, < ' a, ' 4 ek the breath. Ask a
n Resale 1 na c^ea b- wort.hle&K uuuxtuimiß.
Retail Agents— Eialiott Bros., and E. Prosser tc Co., Sydney.
i promotes the growth of the hair, and
whitens the teeth, prevents decay, and gives a
ywhere for ROWLANDS’ articles, of 20, Hatton
■^"xXdU.AJwfiS’s
HAST POWDER
THE °NLY perfect substitute for yeast.
Al) . TEA-CAKEB, PASTRY, &c..
WHOLESOME, AND DIGESTIBLE,
WHEN MADE WITH
Australian Toast Powder.
F°a the TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THEjiSA,
b ®ware of worthless^imitations.
AT 6d - THB HALF pound.
L AJN OABTEE,
CA LVA/V
COS?
Oat
•''nr
WD>
6Ct
Uilllll
01
■
f r
Ntf-
m
YLINDER
■ ROUqi^
! An
“ROKE N
FOR MANYfYEARS
engaged in the
Leabing Workshops
OF BNCtLAITS,
Lately 5 years with
Hudson Bros,,
Manufacturer of
WROUGHT IRON
TANKS & CISTERNS,
of any size or shape,
for squatters, wool-
washers, and station-
owners.
Horse and Cattle
Troughs,
of every description,
wrought-iron pipes, s. s.
funnels, ventilators, ,
&c., fco.
Eatimatea cheerfully given.
„ Rik >UCED PRICE lists furnished on application.
STREET, WEST, near Railway Station.
'©)
SALBCYU
1 •Cmmrn
* tP »?.r*?TO».
»,T
)Toojm y mT£
(JfJntymo /zvf rrs/t/i/smic
/f/o CL£Af/sij/6 ffiOPEAT/fS.
Pharmaceutical Chemist
«4Wuuam SJ S YD/V£Y'S(j
Lin?' 5®! IIonrl
SS|LOUR MILLS,
•t T ” SYDNEY *
l ?^ ,& &]^ eal > te Co? ne Secon dB Flour,
IS ou t 8 ’ Braa ar >d Pol.
*tm? Vet ybeßt-^v d ‘ All made
lowest Y lleafc Procurable,
B|J Prices,
o m ridged
tF@OD
mIFMSaniWALIDS
Has gw. anormeus sale In 'England,
asM If now feeing lntrod'©®<3& Into the.
ColonleSc
■S verf'Storekeeper should goto, supply,
»>* »w®?y wise mother will @@rtainl
US® It a
" s* mnam's royal fooidmills
LONDON,, TENGLAMBn *
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches :
64 PITT-STREKT, and 538 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve fund : 628,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNIThD STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Conamer
cial and Travellers Letters of hw
gUDrafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
TIB MERCANTILE BANE 0? SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 1869}.
Paid-up Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund, £160,000
Directors - *3S>
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman,
Hon. Henry Morb, M.L.C.
George S. Gaird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rohes ton, Esq., C.M.C.
Qknkral Manaomr. :
F. A. A. Wllmb.
&BCKXTARY
Hector Alton.
Bjiakokss: Kaaaiarkst, Pjtrmont, Re&fern. Go*far4, Nyt>
1 Pariamatta, St, lieonard'i, Nawoaatl* an
London Branch : 58 .Le&denhall-atteat,
I**«>MiJPAinMRS Tha National Prorindal Bank o»
Insult
ZZZ3EZZZZ
a.a.debney & c°
m
13 HUNTER STREET,SYDNEY. f
SHIRT MAKERS?
fIftWTCACT ll&SOliis
‘ MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
S
eiv:
Y
N
MPORTfRS OFAU THE
FEWEST SHAPES
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
•a v
s
TUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frame* re-
covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and mads equa
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets
Parasols made t« match cos
tomes. Benairs neatly executed
OR I
Cl
N A
DAK INC
*0
\V^
° oI4L *
OBTAINED A
FIRST CLASS AW ARB
O.F \
HIGHEST DEGREE Of MERIT
f V ¥
A
' 'it.
■'T'f
ISTHE BEST INTHE WORLD!!
NONE OTHER BUT
WA U G H’S
RECE IVEDTHE INTf rnaticnal
PRIZE MEDAL
Manufactured by James Chanmon
Harbour S t SYonev’
Soldby All Crocers and Storekeepers
RUSTON PROCTOR & CO.’S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
•‘TRIUMPH” THRASHING MACmNBflk
Simon's Roller System of Flour Milling
Sole Agents i
E. C. ELLIOTT & CO.,
64V KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
s
jr
ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
AND ALL CHEST AFRECTIOMS
Tk
I
A
WHAT IS YOUR HOBBY ?
Most people have one of
some sort. If you don’t hap-
pen to have one, or if you
have been indulging in one
which returns but a poor sat.
isfaotion for your outlay, get
rid of it as soon as possible.
Better be without than keep a
bad one ! If you have a taste
for Art: if you want a remu-
nerative hobby try Photo-
graphy.
Instruments and materials
are not the costly toys they
were.
Anyone can learn*it
one can profit by it.< M-,I E“J
•A
m
£2
s"Jg
v
The cost of every requidt®
lAI I M
for a beginner is so low, it will
surprise you..
Satisfy yourself by a rid!
to our
WHOLESALE
PHOTOGRAPHIC
WAREHOUSE.
LICHTNER AND CO.,
24 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
Largest House for Photographic Supplies
in the Southern Hemisphere
SE3JSTX3 FOR OUR IST El CAT AL OQ-TJB.
Special Notice We hare now our new Enlarging Departmenl in work, and shall b« pleased t m
send price lists upon application to the trade only,
® UAL BEIT IB LASI All
250 PITT STREET.
\ i received at best Current Rates, 6 per cent, being allowed for moneys at Call.
°* this Society has increased fourfold in two years. Shareholders receive 14 per cent, per annum dividend.
JAMES A. TODD, Maistaobr.


skivvy e/5/y^
ROYAL PoWOEi
2^
sSfisouimY
■’i
r V
M
POWDER
Absolutely Pure.
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without tha aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable ! and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as <-aused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
the Royal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains full
strength in any climate, any length of time. : En-
dorsed by the United State* Government Chemists,
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government, Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Baking
Powder Co., 10(5 Wall street, New U.S.A,
13 "KS» T _ A 13 TZ" TTVT
JB. ■> JEw« *,
IMPORTER,
Family Wine and Spirit Merchant.
PICNIC and WEDDING PARTIES supplied with the Choicest Brands of WINES, SPIRITS,
and BEERS at the most Reasonable Prices, ALL RETURNS BEING ALLOWED FOR.
Notwithstanding the Heavy Customs Imposts, P. R, L. still sells the Best Glass of RUM
BRANDY, or WHISKY IN THE CITY FOR THREEPENCE
The SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT is stocked with all the Leading Brands of WINES*
SPIRITS, Sco., whieh are sold by the SINGLE BOTTLE AT WHOLESALE PRICE Lj
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL,
778 & 780 GEORGE STREET, SOUTH,
SYSITE7.
WALLACH BROS.
P
ISTESW
FURNITURE
YORK STREET,
WAREHOUSES,
WYNYARD SQUARE,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
I ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH
0
CHEAP and
GEM t'RATE YOUR 0^
KSELBY &
SPIIS iDER Ga» 0,1 B
AND
mm: LIGHTS cwcru*
One to twenty-four eaadl« n'>^ r f ’ 6i13 s t
Guaranteed to produce M
complications. In use m ™
f.ocirA in TLnQrlanCi B»HU 0
complications. In use in mjrelandb ave
teen towns in Ka S la^ s “fd of coaU» 8 -
"T r'W'ffO
NOW FIRST * |
Testimonials from 80 ' 1 ®” 4
Oorporatlomim^| ffale9 . ■
FULL INSTRUCTIONS* 113 ®*
See stock of
See stocs u*
D. KEEIEY®
PRICE LIST-
# 5
1 Branch Brass Bracket Lamp--
With Globe or Shade extra
2 Branch Brass Hanging LamP^
With Globes or Shades .
2 Branch Brass Table Lame ' tra
With Globes or Shades e p
1 Branch Brass Table Read* txtm y,.
With Globe or Shade extra
Outside Lamp for Hotel, Store. .
Hector .. •• . **Tiftinp
Hall Stained Glass Hanging L a “[ tb
Ordinary Street Lamp, < lfc tea
Spreader Burner.. • ■ j a paW*”- ~
1 Branch Bracket Lamp, Tin . • • f( , r o@B
With Globe or Shade itB ble IO J f#
Kerosene Lamp, Tin • J ap §{-“ ar
Mines, Wool washes. Sugar * no to" ,
or Chimneys, one burner, ea> . * (
Candles .. • • ' OD e b«rB e ' ' 1
Naptha L • rap, Tin Japanned, ov ~ t
21 Spe m Candles -j
Each burner gives a 24
can - e regulated trow 01/KMf*
Gas Oil per gallon, »P oa ages of 8» d
Naptha per gallon,
A LIBBRAL[DffIg®tB&
RemitUng® U
Address all communications
branch) to C. «•
By carrying out instructions e ffccW t „
with each lamp, insurance can fey
>y applying either in P er . s “" oca Pitt; 8 jh;lS
ILACK, Insurance B/oker, BUA^ eB t.J»
nsurance Co , 79 Collins-street,
ft
=rr- i :
' ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
FRY’S MALTED
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
AM ORDINARY OUP OONTAINB HORN ACTIVE „
THAN A PINT OP THE BEST ALE OK PORTE"
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & 0O„
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, <teo.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Arc Metal Work, Copperoml thing, Blaoksmithing, Plumbing,
Gasfltfcing, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and, PneumadoßeU-flttinjk ofaYQiff
BOULTON’S “ FLUSIf,” " VALVE," and n PAN" Y®§tTtJM ” #«HKP
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &0.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan Cowls, Gas Fires, Beaters,
Warm ears, <t«.
BON ACCORD WORKS,TaMT9 MACQUARJE-PLACE
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Prior on Application.
Custom House Hotel,
BUNDABERG.
First-class Accommodation for Squatters, Com
mercial Travellers, a d others.
' SSM' Private Suites for Families, ‘tsi
Plunge and ~hower Bath, billiards.
Buggy meets every steamer.
HARRY McCANN, Proprietor.
“NORTHUMBERLAND HOTEL, Gympie.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
WINES AND SPIRITS OF THE CHOICEST
BRANDS.
J. F. E. STEWART, Pioprietor.
0. h. smTthJ^
Manufacturers
Of
t [ATS an f
302 GEOR^ B
3 Doors So*** oi
o °a OA?
CONSULT Dr. fIUS
safest treatment ef
Skin Diseases. The Doctor
at the Royal College of
College of Surgeons, B ® B
Rooms, 203 KHzabeth^t^ 6
Oaily.
E. ROWLANDS,
11TE KOWIMDS A LEWIS, '
DERATED WATER and CORDIAL MANUFACTURER,
Has aa^Ov-'iS 7L uC NEW
CQ] i s of
BURTS & LITTLE HAT
D^LRL.I7Srd
LEA &PERRINS SAUCE
SAUC
tt^rtnsK(j?£
PORBIIIS
In /consequence #/ Imitations of THE WORCES t'ERSBIRM
SAUCE which are calculated b deceive the Public., Leo. and
have to request that Purchasers m that the Label on twerp bottte
bears their Signature thm—
without which m httit of the original WQRCESTERSHIMM
SA UCE'is genuine.
Ask for LB A and PERRINS" Sami:, and sag Name <m Wmpmtfy Label, JSottls <m&
Stopper Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse meed
Blackwell, London, ; mnd by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the WwM,
fTO
’Wholesale Agents i Monthutiokk, Joseph ft Co.) David Cohen & Co., Sydney.
m THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows: —SEVEN PER CENT on
Axed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5l ia the Savings Bank
Branch. Payable on demand. Offices, i Park-sfc
THOS. HOLBERNEfiS, Acting Manager,
FREE
PRESC R.IPTIONB are to
be found in the “LIGHT AND
LIFE,” for the speedy cure of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, & c. A copy of this
book trill be sent free, sealed. Address—
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
<?5
gd
>f* c i
'V* •*«
m
STt-
PARI) NOSKI,
705 orcOß fE-St’.,
SYDNEY.
CONCERTINAS
ACCORDEONS
VIOLINS, &o.
Strings sent by Post
705 GEORGE STREET .
HOtESALC MANUFACTORU
JANES STEDMAN
St CAM $ t NCAA UtffttMf o?
%Ca2*++**o pH' 4>A**d,
nr o*oo# _ m SMOfrrtsr matte*i.
as^.^.as^atf.^!s»^K?sflPsferisgis
povtrmy 4 StnrrqtC 4mm*m*
Guinness’
(jU>
FIRST
fgdfgdfgd
i r*
BASS’ PAj.' * *>/
SOLE PU H ** **
COJLOinA * A *L>>y|*
By U
AGENTS IN ftS^V/
W. BALCHIN
G«mmerc)x< *i»>3iin*» 1
‘ *ih/
034 7to^
Opposite th® J; iv e P*
«T Country Orders rece
f “ Technical College Laboratory, Sydney, 30th
October, 1886. —The Syphon JSrated Water Com-
pany.- Gentlemen, —Having seen the process of
Crated Water manufacture carried en by you,
and having examined analytically your product,
i I can hear wisaew; •> its purity, and thorough
I saturation with oarhonie aeid g.M>, Chemical
I analysis shews that your system of water pUrM
I sationis as near peifsctio* as dan be.—l remain,
V yours trulr WiMt. A. Dmom JEf.I.C., F.C.S.”
15 CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
PRESERVE
yOU#
The Water made by oUr h0 o«
i throw”
families at each meal
and should be adopted
and refreshing beverage*
