

The Bulletin
9
(EEG-ISTB^ED.)
Is a Warranted CURAS for all Diseases arising from
or
i
// Chemists and Storekeepers in


sd
%
W.H.PALING &G llM '
356 GEORGE,ST SYDNEY.
, UflesUtecy nd |reatesffifoet u stqisjra r ftv.tn | the
pabiiCJttie wTdeimpossible m £12'
* PAYMEtff 8V rfONtHIV {W*STAtMEifTS TOStflT hIL CUSTOMERS
?AYAUGHC> PAUvG&G PULING St 0>
Hakdman Bros
nffiTifl
aamauii^iMimmiiiuaiaiggn
fesro.
/ass {(
' CoimmSt**?
Trcacic
ftff/nfps
fs
Mad Office * Fact off y. ncwtowh
BRANCH. C£ORC£ ST SYQN£Y
THB AUSTRALIAN
LOAN, DISCOUNT AND FINAN-
CIAL COMPANY,
Limited.
1
TTTHAD OFIFICEI s
CORNER OF MARKET AND YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
INCORPORATED. JUNE, 1888.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO STERLING.
RESERVE, £31,661 4b. STERLING.
AUSTRALIAN LOAN, DISCOUN AND FINAN-
& DIAL COMPANY, Limited,
tranaaot all usual Banking Business. Current Accounts
Opened. Drafts issued, Bills Discounted, and Advance upon
Ml kinds of Commercial Securities.
OVERDRAFTS “GRANTED AGAINST DEPOSITS
OP DEEDS.
Deposits Received
AND
Interest Allowed
At Call, 4i per cent.
3 Months, 6 per cent.
0 Months, 7 per cent.
12 Months, 8 per cent.
WITH BONUS ADDITIONS TO DEPOSITS OP
SIX AND TWELVE MONTHS.
Depositors can arrange to withdraw the whole or portion
Of their deposits, without notice, and will be allowed current
bite rest for the period of deposit.
BY ORDER OP THE BOARD OP DIRECTORS.
H. M'NAMARA,
SECRETARY.
CAUTION.
THE UNITED HORSE-SHOE & NAIL CO., Lmd.
C" —r USTOMERS of the United Horse Shoe aud
Nail Company are cautioned against pur-
chasing a spurious nail, made in imitation of the
“Glohe” nails, and which are exported from
Germany.
The uftiia in question are made of inferior metal,
and are not bo well finished as those of The United
Horse-shoe and Nail Company, Limited.
All boxes of The United Company are branded
U.H-S. and N. Co., and customers should take
care that they get the boxes so marked.
By order.
R. S. HAZKON, Secretary.
116 Cannon-etreet, London, E.C.,
June, 1887.
w
ILLS’ HOTEL, Maokay, Queensland.
EDMUND DUNNOCK, Proprietor.
Travellers and Families will find the old well-
biown reputation maintained.
riMPERIAL HOTEL, TOWNSVILLE.
Proprietress, SARAH EATON,
late of Muswellbrook and Rockhampton.
MT Firsb-olass Family and Commercial Hotel.
Masonic hotel, east-street, Rock-
hampton.-t. MURPHY, Proprietor.
Wayside Gleanings The “Western Cham-
pion” says i “ I can recommend the Rockhampton
Masonic to my western friends."
LEICHHARDT HOTEL,
ROCKHAMPTON.
Proprietress—Mrs. J. GIBBS,
(Late Of Westport.)
Palace Family Hotel,
Corner of Stanley and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
First-Class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments.
Admitted the coolest and best ventilat'd
house in the city. /
DAVID LYONS, Proprietor.
JgIXCELSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated corner of Gill and Church-streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
TO WINEGROWERS AND OTHER?;
G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE CASKS, 350 to 400 gallons j
Rum Sherry and Whisky FUNCBKOf &
Hogsheads, Quarter casks, Spirib Kegs, iron:
ga ons and upwards.
COOPERAGE.
8f KENT ‘STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET
Between King and Market streets.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To at'. Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tic-
Doloreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs
Face, or Head.
Why Buffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary I In Bottles, la., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIQHT
ROSE’S CELEBBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Beßt and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be Been. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to.be the Bafeßt and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Bole Proprietor,
1. i. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
681 Qeorge-etreet only.
Please Do Not Bead This!!
IT DOES NOT CONCERN YOU.
THERE is NO excuse for any person of either
sex suffering from those unsightly disfigure-
ments of the Face, Neck, or Skin, caused by
Pimples, Freckles, Moles, Warts, or any other
kind of skin disease, if they will only listen to a
few words of timely advice, and sit down at once
and write a full, clear, and explicit statement of
their case, enclosing twopenny stamps, when
they will receive a candid reply as to the length
of time that will be required to effect a cure, fee,
&0., &0. Superfluous Hair removed quickly and
painlessly. Red noses restored to normal colour.
All communications held strictly sacred and con-
fidential. Address Edward T. Hubbell,
Dermatologist, Box 852, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
DR. O’CONNELL has removed to Edgar
House, No. 8 Bligh-street. Dr. O’Connell
does not need to advertise at all. His patients,
grateful for their cure and restored health and
vitality, and thankful for the sympathy shown to
them, and also the moderation of the charges,
advise their friends to consult and be cured.
Consultation (by person or letter) free.
Dr, J. O’CONNELL,
Edgar House
Corner Bligh and Hunter streets,
SYDNEY.
GBD. GBD. GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRaND
BRIAR PIPES,
Still maintains its Prestige and stands pre-eminent among
the hosts of other brands as
THE BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforce the Law against
all persons Imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & 00.
231, OLARENOE-STREET.
aBD.
Wehay 6 Large Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
WHOLKALH ONLY. EegUl " BWpmBnte oomtn <‘
DIXSONaSONS
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY.
3
is
$ '4
t jyjtiffJs 1
| .* y *« ais §
daiTUVN
w v ««•< ® smw>&
rwooa *«8 XL
aoMinfcNoo
IvCOZfcTZESZ’S
NEW ZEAIAND
HERBAL REVERIES.
TF.STIMOXIAIS
Prom the Soudan Contingent Hospita’
Corps; also from eminent Doctors and
Students from Sydney Hospital,
TAWHIAG
MONK’S
PILE MIXTURE.
2b. 6d. per Bottle.
Ask for it and take no substitute
It is an invaluable cure. See testimonials.
MONK’S
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhose Mixture,
A positive care. Sold by all Chemists.
2s. 6d. per bottle.
MONK’S
NEURALGIA MIXTUPE,
2s. 6d. per bottle,
Sole Agents:
MATHEY, NATHAN & 00.,
201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY ; ■
AND
44 Little Collins Street East, \ Melbourne.
MINING EXCHANGE HOTEL 7
Gi'MPUC. QUEENSLAND.
The Central Hotel. Private Sitting Room.
Rendezvous for all parties engaged in mining
business.
H. G. BAILES, Proprietor,
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
FIRST-CLASS Accommodation for Commer-
cial Gentlemen and Families. Private sitting
rooms without extra charge. Plunge and Shower
Bath. Billiards (Alcook’s). First-class chef.
Charges strictly moderate. Wines and spirits of
the best brands, Man meets every steamer,
HANRAN, Junr., Proprietor.
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
Contracting Carriers,
FORWARDING AGENTS,
Head Office; Townsville, N. Queensland.
G. S. CURTIS,
Auctioneer & Real Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
MR. BOLTON (of the firm of Lowry and
Bolton) wishes to Inform the numerous
friends of the Firm and the travelling public that
he has gone to Mount Morgan to take charge of
the SUNBURST HOTEL, which Will henceforth
be oarried on under his personal supervision.
Sunburst Hotel, Mount Morgan, centrally situated,
and facing the celebrated Mountain. Persons visit-
ing the celebrated Mountain will find every comfort
and convenience to greet them on their arrival.
BILLIARD TABLE AND PIANO ON THE
PREMISES, also STABLING for the accommoda-
tion of Thirty Horses, and a good PADDOCK
within five minutes’ walk of the Hotel. Coaches
DAILY FROM AND TO ROCKHAMPTON.
Note the Address—
MICHAEL BOLTON
(Of the Firm of Lowry & Bolton),
SUNBURST HOTEL.
MOUNT MORGAN.
REMINGTON
TYPE-WRITER
***Wonei*i *nd time, writing mooli faster
lettor-tniM
wholesale and retail bf the sole agents,
IMRAY ft 00.,
410 Kentwteeet.
df
sd
KIAWJ/FAtTU «£RS4jj
lr IMPORTERS OF
HATS CAPS&t
”
438CE0RCE ST
B YDNBVf
&
$
GRAND
BUNDABO» a
Under New Man*
““—" .j rfgK
FINEST SAMPLE ROOM *
PLUNGE AND SHOW® 8
Good Stabling, and Loose Box'# **
Race*
DRAWING-ROOM **" _.ri9*
]
Having engaged a fl ” fc ' < f£st-ol# s '
bo cater for the publio In a
ALF. P. T ]
JUSTON PKOCJOK &C °
PORTABLE ENGiNE^
IBLE jjjS,
TRACTION ENO^JJ^
“ TRIUMPH ” THRASHI
— ’
limon's Bolder System^
e. o. eSS& »,&
It KENT STR®®J><>
Si GREAT
L HA
1 DO
ms, SPIRITS, aM
mo o ojuuiix*^^
Boru Whisky
assy's * Oognao
II 11
e Gin
ioa Rum
leart do.
» Brandy and "Thesi
ah Ales and Stout, b io'
Wine, for connoisseurs
Wine and Sherry from , rnt o
3rands Whisky or Brai
£3 CASE
erior ACCOMMO
.1 _ ar\ f.n VIS
is.*'
H
# M
-1*
vy
f a
n affordea w * ■»* the be M *■
re conducted > /
Wellington (N.Z-t twD tic,m /
will receive every “ lvfa yS 0“ /
Spirits, and Beers
cept on file.
/V/.
V -
MACHIN
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENCINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
C|UU.
large
A/M
NEWEST DE
HIGHESi
lowest
fs
locomotives,
estimated v
df
Sydney:
■I, PITT ST MET*
sd


The Bulletin
Vol. B—No. 393
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1887.
Price. 6d.
The Rabbit Trouble.—The Present Situation.


“THE BULLETIN”
(PRdPRiEI'ORS * BULLETIN NEWSPAPER COi,
Limited.)
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
’At 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only).
Ter Annihn ... ... ... £1 Os. Od.
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12s. Od.
Quarterly ... ... ••• 0 Os. Gd.
Cheques, Drafts, dc., and all Business Communications to be
addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director,
'literary communications to be addressed to J. F. Archibald.
notice.
My sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
Sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One-pound
Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you can have The
Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for a year.
iThis offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that city
TRe Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in the
hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to interfere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1887.
South Australian Legislative
Progress.
In many important respects South Austra-
lia must be regarded as the leading colony of
the Australasian group. She is almost in-
variably ahead of her neighbours in the
adoption of new and improved methods, and
has actually invented several by no means
insignificant departures in the field of
gPvernment and legislation. It was South
Australia that cut the Gordian knot in refer-
ence to the currency difficulty so pregnant
•with evil whilst the gold fever was raging,
by setting up an illicit mint and coining gold ■
pieces for the convenience of exchange. It
was South Australia that demonstrated the
inherent oneness of these communities by
showing that a Supreme Court judgment
Bigned in any of the colonies can be made to
operate in the others with facility.
It was South Australia that discovered
the circumstance that property in land is
capable of being conveyed from one owner to
another in the same way as property in
ships, and invented for the benefit of Aus-
tralia the Tobkens’ laws. It was South Aus-
tralia that, by persistent hammering away
with the Deceased Wives Sisters’ question,
beat the fact into what the Downing-street
folks are pleased to call their brains that an
autonomous dependency has as much
right to make its own marriage laws as it has
to regulate any other matter of domestic
policy. And it was mainly owing to the in-
domitable pluck and enterprise of South
Australia that these colonies so quickly ob-
tained telegraphic communication with the
rest of the world, and realised the magical
blessing of knowing to-day all the important
happenings which affect mankind of yester-
day. Nor is this much more than a few of
the most conspicuous instances wherein the
colony named has proved herself to be
filled with the afflatus of progress in a pre-
eminent degree. There is no need to dive
Into history for examples. At whatever
time one chooses to observe the events cur-
rent at Adelaide he is confronted with the
evidences of that bold, dashing, radical
spirit, the dread of Conservatives, and the
only solid basis of the optimist’s view of the
fate of humani f y. Recently, for instance,
the South Australian Assembly was calmly
deliberating a motion to the effect: “ That
a dutiful and loyal address be forwarded to
her Majesty the Queen, praying htr Majesty
to allow the Constitution of the colony to be
so amended as to give its people the privilege
of electing their own Governor.” It is true
that the motion met the fate of all great
proposals on a first time of asking legisla-
torial assent. It was rejected, but the fact
of its having been carefully debated without
any show of indignation on the part of even
the K C.M.G. confraternity indicates pretty
plainly that sooner or later the South Aus-
tralians will lead the van in throwing off the
absurd and useless not to say c angerous and
demoralising connection between Downing-
street and the self-governing colonies.
* * *
And at the same time that the Parliament
at Adelaide was discussing this significant
proposal, it had also under consideration a
Bill, the object of which was to cast into the
limbo of exploded systems the law of Dis-
traint these communities have inherited
from the mother country. This measure
must be written down as the most promising
that has ever come before an Australian
Legislature. In England and Ireland the
law of distraint, and in Scotland the law of
hypothec, have been unanimously condemned
by all persons outside the classes directly
interested in the maintenance of those
wretched relics of feudalism and government
by landlords. But in the United Kingdom
the day when these antique and monstrously
unjust laws shall be swept away Seems still
below the horizon of practical politics. "The
“landed gentry” are yet supreme in the
House of Oommons, while in the other
Chamber they practically compose the whole
House. Hence it is that, although the
masses of the people and all the realb
Liberal leaders and exponents of Though
have long since come to the conclusion that
the laws in question are in the nature of
national curse, the miserable heritage be
queathed by the dark ages, and bolstered up
during the even worse age of the House
of Hanover, is preserved in all its
pristine vigour as a means of steep
iig the bulk of the nation in poverty
and misery, for the sake of augment-
ing the happiness of “the upper ten thou-
sand.” Australia has adopted the iniquitous
law in her customary uncritical spirit. It
has never been felt in these countries as an
oppression in the same degree as in Britain.
Landlordism has not yet settled itself as a
blasting entity on the land. Nevertheless
it is a growing force, which needs to be com-
bated and crushed even in its infancy.
Thanks to the infamous policy by virtue of
which nearly all the best land in all the
more thickly populated colonies has boen
alienated in enormous blocks, the day is fast
approaching when the Australian people
will be slaving for the support in luxury ‘of
a handful of landlords, for the most part
absentees, and unless the law of 'distraint be
abrogated, the position 1 of the people will be
no better than that of the people of Ireland.
In New South Wales, at' the present time,
it is‘well-nigh impossible for a settler to
secure a decent area of larid suitable for agri-
culture. ■ Hundreds of thousands of acres in
single blocks 1 are ifiofiopolised by men or
jlhunce c mpanies, and it needs no prescience
;to foretell that in the near future these vast
'tracts will be cut up into tenant farms, the
lion’s share of the produce of the national in-
dustry being gobbled up by the proprietors,
by virtue ot the law instituted and conserved
in that behalf. It is not a moment too soon
to be thinking of abolishing this unspeak-
ably bad law. We congiatu ate South Aus-
tralia on being first in the field. She lias
failed, so far, to achieve a success. Already,
even there, landlordism is a factor iu the
world of politics, and the actual and pros-
pective owners of broad acres were united
in a solid phalanx to secure the defeat of
the projected reform. But Mr. Glynn, who
fathered the measure, declares he will not
rest till he has gained the victory, which
surely it is not taking a too optimist view to
say is inevitable, since the cause is obviously
and demonstrably just and in accord with
the teachings of all political economy worthy
of the name. The ultimate adoption of Mr.
Glynn’s bill may, we think, be looked for-
ward to with great confidence.
The main reason for making a clean sweep
of the English law in this respect is, of
coarse, to prevent agrarian troubles in the
future. But, as The Bulletin has hereto-
fore pointed out, there exists already a very
tangible motive for engaging in the work of
reform. The mere householder ia Aus-
tralia has a grievance in urgent need of re-
dress. He stands to-day in a worse position
than the householder in England. The
lawyer hirelings of the landlords have
brought against him, among other
machinery of oppression, an enactment
of that royal felon, George 11., who, accord-
ing to the law of England, ought to have
been hanged a few days after he came to the
Throne. He burnt his father’s Will, and
thus defrauded inumerable legatees—then a
capital offence. The Act of this George
and his crew of subservient legislators, ho sv-
ever, though inoperative in England, has re-
cently been put in force with rigour in Aus-
tralia, especially in New South Wales. The
Act is the old Scotch law of hypothec in an
intensified form, with sternly retributive
measures of punition against him who vio-
lates the principle that a landlord must be
paid first, let whomsoever suffer. Many a
good man is rotting in durance vile to-day
for infringing this beautiful artifice of a royal
thief and his lickspittling underlings. The
consequences to individual tenants are ter-
rible, yet the effect in the point of view of
the public at large is scarcely less deplorable.
By the means yielded in profusion
by the law, landlords in towns are enabled to
squeeze rents out of the people vastly in
excess of the real value of the tenements
occupied by the unfortunate victims. And
in the end the people have to pay the piper.
A shopkeeper who has to see the end of the
week approaching before he can perceive the
wherewithal to satisfy his landlord, has, of
course, to levy high prices on his customers ;
and the workmen and clerks who have to
pay exorbitant rents for, at best, miserable
accommodation, must needs obtain high
wages in order to keep the wolf from their
door. Hence the cost of living is artificially
enhanced in the interest solely of plutocracy.
Yet the people sit down under this mon-
strous state of things, simply grumbling, but
not moving in the direction of obtaining
redress.
• ' * *
The move made in South Australia,
though for the present it has failed, should
certainly engage the interest of the people
throughout this continent. It affords
another proof that the colonists down there
have a firm grip of the true principles of
Liberalism, and appreciate the direction
Liberal measures should take. In Sydney
or Melbourne, in Wellington or Brisbane or
Hobart, a proposal to make such a funda-
mental alteration of the law, as is involved
in Mr. Glynn’s scheme, would be in sorry
case from the start. It would be scouted
by all the “ prominent ” public men.
Parkes, for example, would discover that
Oliver Cromwell, William Pitt, and
Peel had never expressed any approval of
such a measure, and hence would oppose it
with success. The gentlemen of the long
robe would also be to the forefront to stifle
an aspiration inimical to their professional
interests and their acquired belief that
the law as it is is the embodiment
of truth and justice. But they seem to have
a better class of public men at Adelaide ;
and the manner of the rejection of Mr.
Glynn’s Bill the other day was by no means
without its promise of a lucid interval very
soon. The Bill was kindly received, on the
whole, and although there was a great deal
too much of the “ what is, is right ” argu-
ment, still the thing was dealt with as gently
as such a strange bantling could be expected,
and with a half-promise to look closer into
the matter hereafter. South Australia should
persevere with this projected reform. There is
active public opinion there in favour of it;
and the people of the moat enterprising
colony of the group—in a legislative point
of view,, at ajl events—should assure them
1 1 elves tlqat ip taking the lead in abolishing a
i wholly bad law they are acting in accord
witb a senti,ment of all enlightened Austra-
lians, though unfortunately not a sentiment
!at the present time from which much iu the
way of political force can be derived.
“Merrie” England.
The illustrated papers, reeking with adulation
and royal-toe beslobberment, and brimming over
with the sentimental caste-reverence which passes
current in the servants’ quarters, are just to hand.
To turn over their pages one might almost imagine
that nothing had happened in England for a few
months past but the delirious junketing of a
nation of lunatics because one sovereiga, instead
of three, had ruled with the usual regal eye to the
millions (of money) for the past 50 years. Nothing
but glory and glare and glitter and gloss and
gladness! No gloom or gluttony, or mad-
ness or misery l All mirth and magnificence.
But the splendid dream is shattered! Before the
high-careering chargers and fat, degraded flun-
keys that prance and caracole through the pages
of the Graphic, with a Queen at their heels, could
travel across the Atlantic with their cumbrous
state carriage, Morse’s electric steed had flashed
on even moss-covered Tory minds the news of a
royal purse-gripper’s behaviour in reference to the
charitable women of Govan. In the light of that
iconoclastic telegram the illustrated paper breath-
ing naught but incense and adulation, and scatter-
ing skilfully-drawn and beautifully-eDgraved pic-
tures as roses in the queenly path, appears only as
a gruesome and ghastly satire —the work of some
malignant foe.
* * *
Passing by the hideous caricatures in the Police
Gazette —which should make poor old Thomas
Bewick, the father of wood-engraving, turn in
his narrow cell—giving another side of the Jubilee
craze ; women fainting round a statue, boys fall-
ing from lamp-posts and roadside trees, men
suffering from sunstroke, and police ambulance
corps, &c.—we turn to the provincial press of
England, and almost the first item upon which the
eye lights in the Oban Times narrates the painful
history of a young woman who was found by the
police “ weeping over the dead body of her aged
mother, and whom they forced to deliver to them
for payment of rates, the sum of 10s.” This was
all that she, like the “ obolary Jew,” had in the
world of junketings and jubilees, and it had been
given to her in charity to purchase a coffin for her
dead mother. But rates must be paid, for land-
lords must live, and the system which culminates
in a regal jubilee must continue to flourish on the
soil of that “ Merrie England,” famed alike in
history and in song, which has for some centuries
been watered and made friable by the tears of
widows and orphans. In a locality known by the
sombre and sinister name of Gray’s, which con-
tains a struggling proletariat of over three thou-
sand wretched beings, who have long out-lingered
even that proverbial last straw, the most appalling
poverty is the rule, and ordinary ability to make
even the most miserable of poor livings the ex-
ception. While fiends in the guise of women were
quadrangling the universe and fossicking into the
hidden crypts of Cocytus in search of a dole from
the meanest pauper to lay at the feet of the
meanest monarch, some crack braioed philan-
thropists were exploring the poverty stricken rat-
holes of Gray’s with quite another object. They
published the result of their investigations in a
newspaper and opened to the public gaze a
“ Bleeding-heart Yard ” never yet depicted by
painter’s brush or novelist’s pen—unless we except
the pen of that wonderful photographer of social
misery, Emile Zola.
* * *
The verbal cartoon is a graphic one, and one,
moreover, steeped in the grimmest wretchednesp.
Alleys are threaded ankle-deep in slush and stag-
nant abomination. In every ingle is the little
heap of putrid and typhoidal filth. Few of the
wretched Yahoos who linger out an existence in
these fever-smitten slums had their nakedness
hidden by the rags that rotted on their
skin. Most of them had stomachs guiltless of
food for 21 hours’ past, and many rummaged in
the gutters and garbage heaps for water-soddened
crusts and the refuse of cookery. In the morn-
ing long lines of care-worn men with their poor
pinched faces, and their backs bent as though be-
neath the weight of an invisible burden, defiled
to the dock with hunger in their eyes, to look
wistfully for work. In the evening they came
back more careworn, more wistful, more bent,
hungrier and raggatSer than ever. In squalid den
after squalid den—disgracing the sacred appella-
tion of “ home ” —visited in the course of a single
day, the little naked spawn of the poor huddled
over the hearth where fire was not, with their
shrunken withered flogers locked on thoir empty
stomachs to suppress the gnawing pains of hunger.
Neither father, mother, nor shivering babies had
broken fast for 20 hours—and were not likely to
do so until evening, if then. The rooms we e de-
void of chairs or tables, and the bed consisted of
a heap of rags thrown on the floor in a corner.
The furniture had been pawned to buy food. In
one absolutely bare hovel six infants, like so
many ricketty-shickerry steps in the human foot-
ladder—born to be trodden upon and kicked by
the iron-shod hoof of civilised despotism-caddied
each othar for warmth, with their celd blue feet
and chicken-shrivelled flesh trembling in the win-
ter wind that blustered through a broken case-
ment. The eldest was not more than twelve. In
another room, a little less wretched inappearance,
an old man and his daughter dragged out a life ofl
semi-starvation on ss. a week, Is. 3d. of which
was confiscated by the soulless wretch who called
himself their landlord, for the rent of the alleged
room. That they had even this paltry means of
livelihood was owing to an accident. The girl had
somehow learnt to mend umbrellas. In another
loathsome crib the occupants were beyond the aid
of the physician—they were dying of starvation
and induced phthisis. There was not a morsel of
food in the place. This circumscribed hole was
not so large [as a family vault. But it served
the purpose of one admirably. A widow and her.
five children lived-or died—and slept in it. The>
children were little Yahoos, naked nearly, and the
skin served to keep their bones together. While
the visitor was there one bunch of infantine
ossification was sent out with 2d. which had bean
donated on the occasion. With this pittance some
scraps of animal refuse, it oould hardly be called
meat, were bought, which the poor wretch began
to cook for her starving progeny. Numberless
scenes such as these are described. The above is
but a fraction of the horrible wretchedness which
emphasises in so peculiar a manner the glories of
the year of Jubilee. Bafore quitting this subjeot
it ip interesting to note that a landlord who draws
from these miserable creatures something like
£2500 a year in rents, recently sent £5 to alleviate
the distress of 3000 paupers trembling on the
brink of the Tophet of slow starvation.
* * *
That London pvper which must be gall andf
wormwood to the Croesuses of the Modern Baby
amongst many instances of terrible poverty, re -
cords the suicide of a man who failed to obtain
employment—a common lot in “Merrie” EngJand.
The poor devil left behind him this letter :
“ Almighty Father, Thou who koowest the privations they
have endured’’—(referring to his two eiaterS)—“ help, I em-
plore Thee. Help my poor unfortunate sister*. Alleviate
their sufferings and console them in their distress; and, a&
Thou judgest, I humbly pray Thee to deal mercifully with,
me—a miserable, despairing suicide. Jesus receive my
erring soul.”
The jury returned a verdict of “suicide by taking
poison while in a state of mental derangement."
The finding of any intelligent jury would have
been corollarled by the addition of tho words
“ induced by a permanently empty stomach ” But
then they do not trouble over-much about empty
stomachs in “Merrie ’ England—when the stom-
achs belong to the canaille. In this year of
glorious Jubilee the sick poor get Jubilee treat-
ment also. A poor wretch with a broken leg
spent a whole day in agony before a doctor ven •
tured near him to set it. Then the hospital authoj
rities gave him a pair of crutches and told him to
leave the place as they had no bed for
him. He was likewise told that he must pay 2».
for his crutches, but he had not a farthing, and
they took them away from him, and left him help-
less and alone. But word had been sent to a poor
woman—his wife's aunt—who had no money
either, but she had a wedding-ring, and this she
pawned to pay for the crutches for her distant
relative. Another poor wretch, who could get no
work, was charged at a polioe court with attempt-
ing to cojnmit suicide. The doctor who examined
him deposed that he was dying of starvation. Two
miserable paupers were charged bafore a bench of
clergymen with the heinous crime of begging On
one was found a crust of mouldy bread ; on the
other a penny. They received fourteen days.
These are some of the glories of b >ing poor in
“Merrie" England in this Jubilee year of Her
Gracious Majesty Victoria by the Grace of God!
defender of the faith and absorber of many mill
lions. Are all men our brethren, or are there;
naught but liars among the “ Established ’ minis -
ters of God ?
The Apotheosis of Sport.
We have, of late, seriously taken into consider*'
tion whether we shall give up literature and
devote ourselves to cricket and football, or not. If
thingß do not soon begin to brighten up, we
shall decide to renounce literature. It is clear to
us that the man who works ‘ ‘ on his muscle ” haa
a greater chance of obtaining fame and fortune
and the respect of men (not to mention the love of
women) in Australia than the man who works*
with his head. It is also clear to us that this ten'
dency to apotheosise athletes of all kinds is on the
increase. We have therefore half concluded to
put out our little plate for a share of this gold
and glory. Next season will probably gee us
challenging Beach, or backing ourselves in five
styles against Miller.
* * *
Any disinterested person who marks the attend'
ance at cricket matches and football matches-
(whether they are held in one of the colonial capi'
tals or at Cow Plat) will see that Australian
man wants but little here below in the quality of


hi 3 amusements. We knrw that this statement
will be regarded as blasphemy by a vast number
of people who take more interest in the bowliDg
and batting averages of the English and Austra-
lian Eleven, or the result of a wrestling match
betwixt Cannon and Connor, than in the fate of
Empires or the triumphs of thought. At the
game time it is true. We may be an intellectual
race—a sort of Antipodean Greeks—in time, but
we have not shown many figns of it yet. Per-
haps we are only keeping dark till we have got all
our steam up.
• * *
We will here put a question to the atmosphere
at large—lf the passion tor outdoor sports con-
tinues to increase as it is doing what will be the
result in another fifty years, supposing no social
or national cataclysm should occur during that
period to turn the public mind to the considera-
tion of graver things ? We will hazard a reply—
which may be taken with a ton of salt, or not,
according to the palate of the reader.
Sport will become a religion, dogmatic
and despotic, as all thorough religions
have been and must bo. It will have its Inqui-
sitors who will condemn all heretics and scoffers,
if not to the stake at least to the shovel, which
they will be compelled to use in digging graves
for the rest of the community. No man in these
days will be allowed to become a Minister of the
Crown who has not carried out his bat—we be-
lieve that is the phrase—for a “ century,” and no
councillor eligible for the Mayorship who cannot
show that he has kicked a dozsn goals,
or several dozen men, during the season.
A candidate for a seat on the Judicial
Bench will have to kick more goals and carry out
his bat for more runs than either Minister or
Mayor before he is made a Judge, that office con-
veying greater responsibility. We would like to
give here a forecast in outline of the indignant
leading article which will appear in a newspaper
of the time when a barrister who is not able to
show the requisite athletic record is created a
Judge, but it would look too much like taking the
bread out of the mouth of some unborn brother
of the pen. There will be a Chair of Cricket in
the University anda Chair of Football, and, perhaps,
one of Bowling for students with weakly or in-
firm constitutions. The Chancellor will be —bar-
ring, perhaps, the Bishop and the Premier—the
most famous cricketer and footballer of his day.
If that Victorian statesman, Mr. Jack Gardiner,
of CarltOD, were living then he would most proba-
bly be Premier of his colony—or, perhaps, Presi-
dent of the Australian Republic, and, conse-
quently, Umpire-in-Chief of all the clubs on this
side of Creation. Then we shall have the Mil-
lennium of Athleticism, when footballers who come
td grief upon the stricken field will be canonised,
and, after death, worshipped as martyrs. We
have no time to write any more now, as we have
to go out and look at some sculls and boxing-
gloves and bats and stumps and things.
Freetrade a Failure.
There is a comprehensive condemnation of Free-
trade in the past history and present condition of
New South Wales. Advocates of that policy are
fond of basing their arguments upon data derived
from foreign sources, conveniently forgetting the
million. differences between other countries and
our own—differences so vast as to make compari-
son foolishness, and contrast absurd. And, by
way of digression, it is worthy of note that the
majority of our Freetraders are Englishmen who
emigrated thence afcer they had attained to adult
age. If “ Freetrade England” is such a Paradise
it is a wonder that Messrs. Parkics, Wise, and
Pulsford, the bottle-holders of the party, didn’t
stay there, instead of coming to Australia as re-
presentatives of the code of Cockney politics.
And if Freetrade made England an undesirable
place for them to remain in, it is strange that
they should wish to rivet the same system on this
country which has done nothing to deserve such
an infliction. It is natural that the Freetraders
we have named, and those who are like them,
should apply their arguments chiefly to the land
whence they came, for it is quite in accord with
“blasted Britisher” sentiment to regard those
islands of the Old World as the political hub of
the universe, and the sole repository of political
science; but to Australians not filled with the
same sentiment, a study of the results of Free-
trade in our own count ry is likely to be produc-
tive of more advantage, and to be fraught with
deeper interest.
* * *
Never had a policy fairer opportunity than Free-
trade in New South Wales during the last 20 years.
Fertile territory, abundant minerals, and industri-
ous and—according to their lights —enterprising
people—these were the guarantors of progress, and
as if these were not sufficient, the work of national
development was assisted by huge subsidies from
abroad. English capitalists, unable to find profit-
able investments in their own market, have sent
million after million out here for investment, the
lavish State expenditure having given an appear-
ance of wondrous prosperity to the community,
and thus made it attractive to those in search of
new fields for financial operations. And beyon'd
the influx of private capital there have been the
enormous loans contracted and spent by the State.
Since 1876 no less than £29,274,730 has been bor-
r°wed by successive Governments, and of that
Bam £23,589,687 has in the last decade been spent.
Ihen, too, the extravagant conversion of the
national land capital into cash has led to large
emulation of money, and promotion of enterprise,
fhe proceeds of land-sales, without reckoning the
amount received for land-occupation during the
decade, amount to £17,904.667, and yet this acoes-
-81011 °f revenue has-not been sufficient for prodigal
“'misters, for the surplus of £3,540,000 in 1876
had changed to a deficit of £2,568,000 by the end
of 1886. Adding the totals of loan monies, and land
sales, to the surplus and deficit, as above stated, a
total for these four items of £17,531,351 is shown ;
to that extent was the Treasury during 1876-86,
assisted by increment of purely adventitious
character. The land is now lost to the State for
ever, the surplus has become a debt, and on ac-
count of the loans £1,676,000 is now yearly re
quired for interest. When it is discovered tha
the average population during the decade wa
only 810,610 the impetus resulting from the ex
penditure of the above sum is made manifest
This sum represents an average of £5 17s. 2d. per
year for every man, woman, and child in the com
munity; or supposing that the able-bodied pro
ducers in the community are one-fifth of the whole,
the subsidy would amount to £29 sa. lOd. per year
for each such one during the years from 1877-86
inclusive. With such substantial and enormous
foreign aids to prosperity the period mentioned
should have been one of unprecedented progress,
and as the expenditure has not decreased up tc
date, phenomenal briskness and soundness should
characterise the commerce and business of the
community.
* * *
That such is not the case is too evident a fact to
need assertion. The terrible depression of the
present, and the gloomy outlook for the future,
will be admitted by the most rabid of Freetraders.
It is stated upon good authority that the landlords
of 4500 houses in Sydney suburbs seek vainly for
tenants ; capitalists vainly seek investment for
their profitless thousands; manufacturers generally
find that all the markets overflow, and that their
goods are without demand ; and tens of thousands
of labourers spend in vain search for employment
the time which should be spent in the creation of
national wealth. So greatly has the purchasing
power of the community decreased that during the
first half of this year imports have decreased by
more than £2,500,000, and so firmly has depression
settled on the colony that, land revenue apart, the
State income for last quarter is less by £16,000
than that of the same quarter of the previous
year. In 1886, the net earniogs of the railways
were less than they were in 1881 when there were
only 995 miles open 88 against 1890 at present 1
and only £11,778,819 had been expended in con-
struction as against £24,079,555 in 1886. Other
proofs of depression—such, for instance, as the
present price of Hudson Bros’, shares—it is
superfluous to quote. Admittedly the present
time is, in a commercial sense, the most disastrous
ever experienced by the community, and every
probability seems to favour the view that even
yet the worst phase of this national calamity has
still to be experienced.
• * *
The striking contrast between the extraordinary
inducements to prosperity in recent years and the
intensity of the present depression, give emphatic
denial to those who boast the virtues of a Free-
trade policy. The stipendiary Pulsford and his
sect are continually saying what prosperity Free-
trade must bring, and promising the prosperity
that it is to bring in the future ; but beholding
the disaster wrought by that policy in the past—
in spite of the adventitious stimulus given to
enterprise in the manner above described—and
the depression of the present time, the value of
such arguments and such promises may be accu-
rately estimated. If Freetrade could not succeed
as the national policy in the past, it is certain
beyond peradventure that it cannot possibly suc-
ceed here in the future. The Freetraders must
explain the failure of their policy in the past
before they can claim audience for the romantic
promises of the benefits to be obtained by a con-
tinuance of their system of Destruction of Colonial
Industries.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Commercial Freedom.”
Concerning the elongated howl of Freetrade
raised by the advocates of that policy the most
remarkable fact is the utter absurdity of the ap-
peal. “ Freetrade ”in any sense whatever is a
thing which the boldest Parkesite does not ven-
ture to hope for, and does not desire to obtain.
How trade—and we would for the sake of sim-
plicity restrain our view to that curled darling of,
Cobdenism, foreign trade—can possibly be free
when 25 per cent, of the revenue of the country
is derived from Customs duties, is a question
which never has been and never can be answered.
It was the proud boast of the supremely self-
satisfied Burns when introducing his Budget pro-
posals that only £50,000 less would be collected
at the Customs under his tariff than under the
‘ Protective ” tariff of the former Ministry, and
yet he and his crowd say that they have to use
their own cant phrase “ vindicated the cause of
commercial freedom." There is a lot of matter
for thought on this point. From the deliverances
of the land-jobbing Cobdens now in power it
would seem that the whole difference between
“ free ” and “restrictive” trade is as £50,000 in
£2,000,000. Taking the figures as they stand it
would certainly appear to the average intellect
that Burns and Co. have so far given an instal-
ment of 2is per cent, of (foreign) commercial
freedom. Yet this is all they mean or desire
to give. The other 97| per cent, of (foreign)
trade restriction may, according to their
creed be re-instated without interfering with the
much-vaunted boon of (foreign) commercial free-
dom. “Freetrade” in New South Wales is the
shallowest pretence ever imposed upon the public
mind. Upwards of two-and a-half millions must
necsssarily be produced as revenue by Customs
and Excise restrictions of trade. The whole ques-
tion at issue is as to whether this money shall he
raised by a tariff which burdens, or by a tariff
which benefits the community. Henry George
has given a deserved slating in his book “ Protec-
tion and Freetrade,” to “Revenue Tariff” men of
the Burns cwm-PARKES stamp. He clearly
proves that Customs duties imposed “ for revenue
only ” are the worst of all taxes, as they restrict
commerce without benefiting anyone in the com-
munity except a few importing monopolists. As
the revenue must be obtained for this community
by restriction of trade, the whole question i 3 as to
whether such restriction shall be baneful or bene-
flcial to those upon whom the tax ultimately falls.
Therefore it is a public fraud for politicians to
boast themselves -“ Freetraders” simply because
their aim is to levy an indispensable tax in a dis-
astrous and oppressive manner.
4.
Irish Land Nationalisation.
The day of a cast-iron political economy is
dead.” Men are already beginning to recognise
that in the United Kingdom, as in old Judea, the
land should be the property of the State, and that
its rental, though based on a more moderate com-
putation than that now prevailing, should defray
all expenses of Government and render taxation,
as now understood, a thing of the dead and buried
past. Michael Davitt, the moat advanced and
far-seeing of the Irish Nationalists, has learned
this lesson, and he points out that the Irish party
has hitherto failed because its programme rests on
too narrow a basis. Instead of abolishing indivi-
dual landlordism it merely aims at dividing the
soil of Ireland among 600,000 in place of 6000 pro-
prietors ; the original evil will be lessened but not
destroyed, and the whole circu.t of woes will
have to be traversed by posterity until at last the
true principles of land reform are recognised and
adopted. Brotherhood, an Irish paper pub-
lished in County Derry, the great stronghold of
Irish Toryism, sums up the situation thus:
“Our Irish Nationalist M P ’s, with all their eloquence
and vehemence, have not succeeded in protecting themselves
and their country from a ‘Coercion-for-ever’ Bill! Ireland
is really to be placed, for who knows how long, under the
thumb of the Landlords' party ! Whence this humiliating
failure ? There are not a few who think it is due to the
selfishness of the Irish Nationalist agitation. Irish M P.’s
have been perpetually harping upon Irish wrongs and Irish
woes, as if there were no wrongs or wops elsewhere than in
Ireland, until people across the Channel have grown sick of
the very name of Ireland. If they had had larger hearts; if
they had embraced the toiling poor of Great Britain in their
sympathy as well as their fellow-irishmen ; if they had never
spoken of Irish wrongs without speaking also of the injustice
under which well-nigh everywhere the masses suffer through
the appropriation of the land and all other means of produc-
tion by the 1 classes if they had protested, not only against
Irish rack-renting landlords, but agai> st the principle of
landlordism itself wherever found, as being essentially un-
just, because it empowers some to live in idleness upon the
fruits of others' industry ; if they had shown themselves the
champions not merely of an oppressed section—-the tenant
farmers—of one little nation, but of all under the rule of the
Imperial Parliament that are crushed under the burden of
privileged classes which produce nothing and consume much;
they would by this time have had the masses of Great Britain
to a man on their side, and the aristocracy—far from being
able to get a Coercion Bill passed—would have been humbly
pleading, liat in hand, to be let down as gently as might be
deemed consistent with the general interests.”
Lord Salisbury, however, has evidently recog-
nised the new danger thatis looming ahead, and it i
already hinted that next session will see the in-
troduction of a Land Purchase measure which is
to create a racy of peasant proprietors in Ireland.
Doubtless he thinks it best te offer this half loaf
of concession before more is demanded off him.
At present Michael Davitt is the only man in
Mr. Parnell’s following who wishes to organise
the Irish party as a body having for its object the
abolition of landlordism throughout the British
Empire, but if his views should be adopted by his
colleagues, the Nationalists will gain the support
of all the toiling millions in that vast dominion
on which the sun never sets, and their cause,
instead of being merely that of one little island in
the Atlantic, will be that of humanity at large.
Atpresent £70,000,000 are levied annually as landed
rent in the United Kingdom alone, and an incal-
culable amount in other parts of the Empire, and
the astute Salisbury recognises that all this may
shortly be at stake. The Irish Coercion Bill is
the barbaric device by which the Tory Premier
has hitherto endeavoured to stifle the beginning
of a systematic attack on this monstrous
monopoly, and tbe whispered promise of a Land
Purchase measure in the future shows that coer-
cion has already been found wanting. But
bayonets and lying promises, when pitted
against the cause of Land Nationalisation, are
feebler than Mrs. Partington’s household
implement against the surf of the Atlantic, and
when at length the broom drops from Salisbury’s
wearied hand he will find the waves rolling on as
fiercely as of old. The history of the Tory party
has been, like the tale of an Austrian campaign,
one of ceaseless retreat, but the Tory of to-day
fondly imagines that he still stands where his
ancestors stood, and when the last day of aristo-
cracy arrives, the last of the Conservatives will
be found at his post fighting against the rising sea
of Democracy with the same old broom which has
seen so much service in the past. But the result
is a foregone conclusion. The narrowness of Par-
nell’s programme may retard the coming of land
nationalisation for a few years, but the tide which
for 200 years has kept the British Tory in per-
petual motion backwards, is rising as steadily as
of old.
♦
It has been the common custom in England and
the colonies, as the etiquette of the legal profes-
sion, not to mention an attorney by name when he
was “ pulled ” to the Full Court for pocketing a
client’s money, or for some other peccadillo.
The records of the court referred to the erring
attorney as “He one," &c. This queer-
looking description, when amplified, meant “ lie
Ebenezer Squeezem, Esquire, one of the gentle-
men attorneys of this honorable court.” During
the arguments of counsel he was referred to as
“ this gentleman,” and if a poor ignorant reporter
went, for example, to Firebrace, the genial
Prothonotary at Melbourne, for the name of the
offender —well, it would be a caution to see the
result 1 Now, when John Smith comes before the
court for picking pockets in a slightly different
way from the attorney, his full name, age, coun-
try, religion, the name of the ship he came out
from England in, and whether he was then a
‘ ‘ lag ” or a free immigrant are all at the disposal
of the Press and public. Why a distinction
should be made in the case of the offending
Squeezem is not clear, except that he
is one of the Devil’s own children, and
comes up for a paternal rebuke—to receive
“ censure ” or “ pay the costs,” which latter, in
the language of the Artful Dodger, “ he can do
on his head.” There seems a disposition in Eng-
land just now, however, to do away with all that
misplaced and unmerited delicacy exhibited
towards roguish lawyers. In the Court of Queen’s
Bench the other day an attorney was up for ap-
propriating money belonging to a client. Reid,
Q.C , who appeared for the Law Institute, said
that “ in order to protect the Press he gave the
name and address of the attorney ” in the docu-
ments. Mr. Justice Stephen said: “I quite
agree that the name of this man should be pub-
lished—Henry Saunders, Wolverhampton.”
(Laughter).
4
A correspondent suggests, in re the proposed rail-
way line from MoloDg to Parkes, that the land
flanking the surveyed route—one mile in breadth
on either side—which has already been reserved
from selection and from sale till the completion of
the railway, be made the subject of an experi-
ment in the application of Henry George’s land
theories. Let this reserved area be subdivided
according to the necessity of ■ the case, and these
subdivisions leased at their present value for (say)
a term of ten years, at the expiration of which
term the leasees should have the flrst offer of a re-
allotment. The second leasing would, of
be at an increased rental, the railway being then
completed and adding greatly to the value of the
ground. In this manner a railway line such as
that under discussion could be constructed at a
merely nominal cost to the country and at the
same time afford fixity of tenure to the lessees,
and after the debt incurred through constructing
the line had been paid off an abundant source o:
revenue to the State would be established. Her
is a chance for Parses to show what he
made of.
♦
The Irish correspondents of English and colonia
journals seem to be actuated in their selection o
news by a common maxim“ Unless we cs
send something infernal against the Irish peopl
we had better send nothing at all.” The Argu
and the Age, which agree upon nothing else, ar
unanimous in their anti-Irish policy. The Argu
is, perhaps, the more venomous of the two. I
recently—when reviewing a work written by one
of the Irish Nationalist members of the House o:
Commons—denounced the author and all hi
confreres as “disloyal felons,” and stated tha
the cause of all their “wickedness” arose from
the fact ‘ 1 that they had not been brought up i:
English schools of thought and morals.” Thi
was, no doubt, the Argus’ quiet, satirical way o
alluding to the plunder and profligacy character
istic of English rule in Ireland ; to that history o
crime vide Hume— unequalled in any other coun
try; to the past fashionable prostitution whici
obtained in the Court at Dublin; to that famec
pension-list o’er-burdened with the names of the
mistresses of offioial profligates; to Elizabeth
Yilliers —the lady friend of William of Orange
who was granted an estate in Ireland valued a
£120,000; to the Duchess of Kendal and the
Countess of Darlington—the platonic fancies o
George 1.-who bad each £5OOO per annum ; to
Lady Walsingham— left-handed daughter of thi
Duchess ol Kendal—who enjoyed a pension o
£l5OO a year; to Lady Walmoden —one of the
Dutch mistresses of George ll.—who cut a capei
on an Irish pension of £3OOO a year ; to the Dublin
Castle gentlemen who sinned very recently, anc
but truly the Argus is dreadfully waggish ii
its own sly way.
+
The S. M. Herald reprints with snivelling
unction the abject grovel ladled out by the Times
anent the laying of the foundation stone of the
notorious imperial—(small i, please, printer)—in
stitute by her Majesty. “ The ceremony was per
formed,” says the Herald, “ amid great splen
dour.” Ach Oott! the writer must have a soul
as big as a pea-nut, and a sense of the magniflcenl
co-equal with that of a fetich-worshipping
Paynim. Then follows a lot of nauseous verbal
toad-slime, as viscid as they make it. Oriental
imagery is laid under contribution, and the account
of the regal shivoo is absolutely blistered with
rubies and diamonds and precious stones. Tapes-
tries, Indian mats, and Persian shawls, sheen anc
rustle down the column or so of print in dazzling
and bewildering profusion. Then we get a
luscious slobbery chunk of right royal spume about
“ a pretty design of red roses formed into the
letters V.R.1.” Oh, shade of Lancaster, why
red ? Is it because the Queen is also an empress
and empires being founded in blood, does the red
rose typify a government by those who have
drenched the pure white flower of the common-
wealth in the crimson ebbing life of a slain free-
dom? We drop the account right here. The
drivel grows more sickening as it proceeds. When
we’re called upon to choose between Monarchy
and whisky, we’ll take whisky.
The acquittal by a Melbourne jury of Michael
Quinlan, who was charged with the wilful mur-
der of his wife, Mary Jane Quinlan, at Hotham,
on the 3rd inst., adds another to the long list ol
practical arguments which can be adduced against
capital punishment. Had the penalty for murder
been the most lengthened term of imprisonment,
aggravated by the most rigid scheme of gaol dis-
cipline, we have no hesitation whatever in saying
that Quinlan would have been found guilty by
almost any jury in Australia. The evidence
leaves very little room for doubt. On the morn-
ing of the 30th ult., Quinlan rose at half-past five
o clock, and sent an adopted boy, named Patront,
for rum. The lad, after returning with the liquor,’
was doing some work in the yard, and spoke to a
friend who happened to be passing. Quinlan,
who was a passionate, vindictive man, thinking
that Patroni was neglecting his work, called him
in and commenced beating him, when Mrs.
Quinlan, who had been saying her prayers in the
bedroom, interfered. The husband, baulked of
wreaking his spite on the boy, then turned upon
his wife, whom he knocked down and struck with
a whip. In the struggle which ensued a revolver
was fired, the ball penetrating Mrs. Quinlan’s
groin and inflicting a fatal wound. Under what
circumstances the pistol was fired no living being
except Quinlan himself, can tell. Mrs. Quinlan,
in her dying depositions, after receiving the last
rites of her church, swore that her husband had
deliberately shot her; the boy Patroni was in the
yard, and did not see the shot fired ; while Quin-
lan says that the pistol went off accidently in the
struggle. Of course, legally speaking, Quinlan
was either guilty of wilful murder or nothing, and
the jury, luckily for him, have taken the most
merciful view. Can any reasonable man believe
that if these twelve men had not had the gallows
looming before their mental vision Michael
Quinlan, the homicide, would now be walking
the streets of Melbourne a free man ?
+
Editor Bulletin. Sir,—A former resident in
Sydney, I receive your paper every month, and
am glad you still fearlessly wage the anti-humbug
war. It is a contrast indeed from Sydney with
its trade at a standstill, its government at a dead-
lock, its appalling debt, its few manufactories
closing, and its land vainly offered at a few shil*
lings a week, to this thriving and, though only
two years old, already giant young city, with
its vigorous life, its vastly growing commerce,
its enormous development, and cash payments
amounting to thousands of pounds a day. Why
this difference ? Already we have buildings
almost as fine as any in Sydney, though the city
has but 14,000 people ; wharves are being built,
railroads and tramways constructed in all direc-
tions, immense business houses erected, and splen.
did and tasteful villas going up by scores. Pro-
perty on the average doubles in value every few
months, and the “boom” is far surpassing any-
thing in the whole history of Sydney, and is pheno-
menal even for America. Certainly we have
Protection in full force here, and although since
the publication of Henry George’s book it is im-
possible to shut one’s eyes to the evils in it, yet
undoubtedly it has immensely stimulated Ameri-
can industry, and certainly help of some kind
should be given to Australian industries, though
whether, as John Bright says, a subsidy or bounty
system is not better than import duties, is open to
question. Assuredly anything is better than taxing


native productions while allowing imports to go
scot free, which seems to be the N.S.W. appli-
cation of freetrade. But the chief cause of the
prosperity of San Diego seems to be the astonish-
irg enterprise and energy of the inhabitants, a
contrast indeed to the sleepy apathy of corn-
stalks. Here we have a climate and soil the exact
counterpart of that of Sydney. We are in the
same latitude, and the rainfall is even less than
with you. Yet the gorges are being dammed up
to make gigantic reservoirs, from which irrigation
ditches are being ramified all over the country.
Railways are constructed, not after the settlement
of population but in advance of, and to induce it.
An immense hotel is being built on the beach op-
posite the city, and the whole is being advertised
profusely all over the East. Streets are laid out,
planted with orange, olive, and shade trees;
electric and steam tramways laid along them, the
electric light, gas, and water run all over the city,
and all this by private enterprise. Why cannot
the Australian populace bestir itself in like
manner? The landowners go whining to the
government, for instance, to make the St. Peters-
Liverpool Railway. Why don't they make it
themselves 1 Why don’t you dam up the water
which fell during the recent floods instead of
allowing it to go waste ? Is it not a crying dis-
grace that with tons of oranges rotting on the
ground you import thousands of pounds worth of
marmalade from England? However if the in-
habitants will not do this of their own accord, let
a good heavy land-tax be imposed, thus forcing
landowners to work their ground or relinquish it,
and let aid be given to colonial manufacturers
E. A. Phipson, San Diego, Cal., U.S.A., 20th
July, 1887.
We want to lassoo a new poet somewhere out in
the vast wilderness of song, for we have an order
on hand that requires immediate attention. There
is one more Jubilee anthem to be sung, and a
singer of no ordinary sweetness is needed to tune
the lyre and howl forth the tale of queenly muni-
ficence which we have to tell. We want a man
of eloquence, with gangrene in his soul and rage
gnawing at his vitals-a man who was born in a
blast-furnace, and who spent his early years in a
boiling down establishment—who cultivates a
green scum on the surface of his mind, and whose
muse would make Ixion shudder as he spins round
on his teetotum in the Shadow Land from ever-
lasting to everlasting. The poet we want must
be a living horror, and when we have got him we
will blast out of his inner consciousness a chunk of
verse with a hurricane of perdition in every lurid
line, and erect it as a monument in the sight of
all men with a bucket of disinfecting fluid
on top, and underneath it a pedestal of dead
men’s bones. We want a poet as no poet was
ever wanted before—a cannibal set to rhyme, a
laureate Thug, an archbishop, a pirate, a fiend,
borrowed, begged, or cadged for the occasion
from the bottomless pit, a faith-healer, or a hang-
man-anyone in short who can turn this story into
such verse as the occasion requires, and plant the
flowers of poesy over the tomb of a royal Jubilee.
Listen: .
•* Mr. Labouchere gives another instance of the absolutely
eenuine sympathy for the weak and distressed that is a
characteristic feature of her Majesty. Now and again these
touches that show the true womanly feeling and love come
to light. In 1844 an officer of the 79th Regiment died, and
left the whole of his property, amounting to £25,000, to the
Queen He also left a widowed niece with eight daughters
and a son The poor old widow (the niece, not the Queen),
who is now blind and in great distress, has petitioned her
Maieaty for some moiety of the legacy to keep her from
workhouse, and has been rewarded with a magnificent dona-
tion of two pounds "
Two pounds! Say it louder, and see if the donation
sounds any larger when brayed forth through the
speaking-trumpet of Fame. Two Pounds ! Forty-
shillings out of a legacy which 48 years compound
interest has swelled to over £BO,OOO ; 480 coppers
to save an old, blind widow from a pauper s exist-
ence and a pauper’s grave! A few weeks ago
£75 000 waa subscribed for Her Majesty, to be dis-
trib’uted in charity, and out of this she spent
£5OOO in another blind, stony, useless, soulless
image of the already too-much-imaged common-
place German Prince who died 25 years ago ; the
rest is unaccounted for —all but £2. If the tale be
true—if it can be true—all the tears shed over
Brown’s inglorious dust cannot wipe out the
stain If it be true, it is time for the Press to cease
publishing blank Jubilee drivel on its last legs
about Royal generosity, and devote the space in-
stead to a dog-fancier’s “ ad." ; it is time to put
away in brine the hoary old chestnuts about the
Queen’s deep, abysmal sorrow over mining ex
plosions, and to file away many other white-headed
gags in the same dusty obscurity which covers
the Dow v and Gumtree’s recent article on
“ How to Wash the Feet,” and its thrilling tale
about the “ Onion sincethe time of Moses.” Even
Plain Bill’s eloquence may pound in vain at the
pearly gates of human credulity after this; his
wilted, half-mast flag has seen its best days ; the
cause to which he has devoted his life has been
sold for forty pieces of silver ; and a laboriously
built up character for queenly generosity has been
sacrificed for less than the average police-court
fine which is levied from the seedy drunk who
has painted the town crimson and been run in on
a hand-barrow. We will now proceed to take up
a collection in aid of the N.S.W. and Victorian
“ Queen’s Fund.”
There is such a close and striking analogy be-
tween the crimes of forgery and perjury that one
would naturally be inclined to suspect the
testimony of a man circumstantially accused
of having written somebody else’s name
to a document and fraudulently uttered the same.
Perjury, indeed, stands to forgery in precisely the
same relation that slander stands to libel—the
first is a spoken and the second a written offend-
ing of the very same nature in both cases. When,
therefore, Stanley added to his other eccentrici-
ties the negotiation of a forged cheque, and then
mysteriously disappeared, clearly leaving it to be
supposed that he had gone to America, yet all the
while being located in secresy very near where he
was “wanted,” the public began to ponder deeply
as to whether the yarn he spun in reference
to the Mount Rennie affair—on the strength of
which four boys were hanged and several others
consigned to penal servitude for life—might not
be as invalid as the cheque in question. This man
is undoubtedly an enigma beyond, all understand-
ing While the Mount Rennie trial was pending,
he the only “reliable” witness for the prosecu-
tion was himself “kidnapped,” or otherwise put
out of the way. The police at several times
despaired of being able to place him in the wit-
ness-box at all. Yet he unexpectedly turned up,
narrating a romantic story to account for his ex-
traordinary absentions. He never furnished any
sufficient reason for being out of the way, except
In respect of his last disappearance. The rationale
of this was self-evident. Stanley was in request
to render an account of his connection with the
forgery of the name of one of Mayor Riley’s
firms to a £2O cheque ; and his abrupt
departure from Sydney, and hiding hard by,
knowing all the while that his presence was par-
ticularly required, are incidents admitting of
easy explanation. Nor is a sufficient reason for
his return very difficult to hazard. The fund raised
to reward him for his “heroic” conducthad not been
handed over; so the noble Stanley surreptitiously
sneaked back, tried to persuade an Evening
N ews reporter that he had established his innocence
of the forgery charge, and endeavoured to obtain
assistance in the matter of bagging the balance of
the testimonial fund. Here again this eccentric
individual showed a reluctance to keep appoint-
ments, and the Evening News man, getting dis-
gusted, informed the police of Stanley’s return,
whereupon he was arrested and charged with for-
gery. But the man on whom Stanley had passed
the worthless cheque, and who had sworn
the information leading to the issue of a warrant,
seems to have become imbued with erratic pro-
clivities. The charge against Mr. Stanley broke
down owing to the wavering of the prose-
cutor, and consequently Mr. Stanley has pre-
served his “stainless” character. The public
were deeply concerned to have the matter cleared
up for the plain and s mple reason that if Stanley
is really guilty of forgery the always doubtful story
he vouchsafed touching the Mount Rennie horror
becomes even more hard to believe than ever,
and the deep impression, amounting almost to a
conviction, that a large number of innocent beys
have been unjustly punished —tour of them to the
extent of the death penalty—gathers fresh vigor
and ground for extension. If the Crown Law De-
partment of New South Wales were conducted on
piinciples any less mysterious than these which
govern Mr. STANLEs’stransacti.nsand demeanor,
steps would speedily be taken to thoroughly in-
vestigate his doings in the criminal court, since
the question of his character is intimately asso-
ciated with the more important question as to
the guilt or innocence of the miserable boys whom
we shall, for the present, take the liberty of styl-
ing t' e Mount Rennie victims. What has
Attorney-General Wise to say in this matter ?
The Stock Exchanges of Melbourne, Ballarat, and
Sandhurst each voted £lOO towards the relief of
the Bulli widows and orphans. The Sydney Stock
Exchange had under consideration a proposal to
make a similar contribution, but it was rejected
on the ground that stock broking and charity were
things incompatible. They certainly do seem
somewhat incompatible in Sydney, for was it not
a deputation consisting chiefly of Sydney Ex-
change men which had the brutish impu-
dence the other day to tell Governor Caring-
ton, the custodian of the Queen’s preroga-
tive of mercy, almost in so many words, to be
sure and hang four miserable seventeen and
eighteen-year-old boys ? And when Dalley was
sending his little band of brigands to cut the
throats of half-armed black men who bravely
fought for their country in the Soudan, did not
the well-dressed savages of Sydney Exchange
rush forward with a big cheque for the bogus
Patriotic Fund ? Bah 1
The Case of William Roy.
The Bulletin has so far acknowledged subscrip-
tions to the amount of £49 Os. 9d. received by it
on behalf of William Roy, the soldier who now
lies blind and paralysed in Parramatta Asylum.
As already stated, Roy wears the distinguished
conduct medal, awarded him for his gallant con-
duct at Rorke’s Drift, where, though at the time
an invalid, he rushed through the flames during
the fight to save the sick from the burning hospi-
tal. He subsequently received from the hands of
the Queen, an autograph Bible, and his portrait is
to be seen in the celebrated painting by De Neu-
ville now in the New South Wales National
Gallery. The unfortunate man, who, since his
admission to the wretched asylum that is now his
home, has, according to the report of the gentle-
men appointed to enquire into the management of
the N.S.W. Government charities, been treated
with wanton neglect and cruelty, is in a hopeless
condition of health, and will, while he lingers, be
utterly dependent on the good offices of those who
may wish to make a substantial protest against
the hollow-hearted system which, while it spends
lavishly to commemorate triumphs gained chiefly
at the cost and never for the benefit of the class
from which the common soldier is drawn, cal-
lously permits a brave private to die in misery.
The Bulletin hopes to collect a considerable
sum for Roy, and undertakes to see that he is
directly benefited by its expenditure. The follow-
ing additional donations are now thankfully
acknowledged
Machine Man, 2s. 6d.; Robert Bodel, ss. 6d.; Sympathy,
collected by Mr. Oreagh, £6 7s. 6d ; A W. Stevens, £1; J.
F, 53.; Republican, £1 Is.; Kaege, Ooolgaga, 10s.; per J
Wealands—H. Harvey, 2s. 6d.; Turnbull, Is ;J. Court, Is
Clyde, Granville, 2s. 6d.
We have received from Mr. Jultan Thomas a
cheque for £5 on behalf of W illi s m Roy, accom-
panied by the following characteristic letter
11 Dear Bulletin,—Your word of appeal for Roy, of
Rorke's Drift, is read by me here in the Cannibal Islands. I
thank you for giving me the opportunity to respond by en-
closed cheque. I have been under fire myself, and during
the last month have stood a good chance of being peppered
at by dusky savages. But none of these are equal in fight-
ing capacity to the warriors whom Mr. Rider Haggard
has immortalised as the greatest fighting men in the world,
and of whom last year I heard an English soldier sing
• We don't want to fight, but by Jingo if we do
We’d sooner meet a hundred French than one Zulu;
For when you see the assegai it makes you feel so shy,
Oh ! I’d sooner be in Paris than in Ulundi.’
Roy fought there, and helped to make history and inspire
artists and authors. His chief reward appears to have been
an ‘ autograph Bible’ received from the hands of Royalty.
I suggest that this, if in existence, should be put up to auc-
tion.—Right truly yours, ‘The Vagabond.' Schooner
Windward Ho, New Hebrides, August 6, 1886."
Mr. Thomas, by the way, has now arrived in
Sydney.
Colonel St. Hill, M.P. for North Hobart
(Tas.) has discovered a genuine soldier of the
Light Brigade who rode at Balaclava. There can
be no doubt of his genuineness. The poor old
veteran is in a charitable institution.
Maurice Hume Black, M.L. A., strange to
say, although sent to London to advocate Home
Rule for North Queensland, was not a believer in
Home Rule for Ireland. When in London he met
several of the Irish members with the result that
he returned to Queensland a thorough believer in
Irish self-government.
A Ballarat (Vic.) man is just now thank-
ing his stars that the outrage mania has not
claimed him for a further victim. His wife was
averse to sending the children to the State school,
and on the morning they were to be sent (strange
coincidence J) he was arrested and charged with a
criminal assault on his youDg daughter. The
child had its little uncorroborated yam ready for
the Bench, but -the baseless fabric of evidence
tumbled to pieces in Court, and another “ unpre-
cedented outrage ” slithered into a back seat. If
two or three youngsters had been drilled to sub-
stantiate the juvenile prosecutrix, what another
fearful narrative of Australian sensuality would
be furnished to the world, and how the gentle
churchmen would shudder at the unspeakable
wickedness, without giving a thought to the pos-
sible innocence, of the accused.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Woman’s Rights—Matrimony and Ma-
ternity.
Advertisement from S.M. Herald
“ Wanted young lady, good address, to join
another in private bar.”
Major Dane claims that lovely woman is
naturally honest and hates debt. She hates it so
much that she seldom cares to meet it.
There are said to be 4000 tailoresses in
Melbourne. We argue by this that it must take
more than nine tailoresses to make a man.
Two young ladies at Mogil Mogil (N.S.W.)
were asked by a bushman the other day whether
he was on “ this side of the river or the other.”
A young lady teacher in a suburban school
tells her pupils that “devil” is always in the
masculine gender. She clearly does not believe in
a she devil.
From the S.M. Herald : —“ Wanted, a
large ware thrower, at the Phoenix Pottery
Works.” The married women will please not all
speak at once.
The Noose is responsible for this contri-
bution to the census statistics “ Mr. W. Kelly,
of Bobundarah, is the possessor of 23 children.
The youngest is 14 days old."
A widower of 24, earning £2 per week,
with three children, advertises for a wife in an
Auckland (N.Z.) paper. This is the sort of man
who goes in for love in a bark humpy.
In America, says Major Dane, women are
seen at the bar and in the counting-house. Pshaw !
What are you giving us, Major ? We reckon
Sydney is the place to see girls at the bar.
The Burmese ladies were unable to
“ savee” why the Queen should want a Jubilee
offering. “ Has she no rice or tobacco 1 " they
asked. No ; but she’s got plenty of sugar.
A girl wandering through the country
with a dcg-chair. on her wrist, was picked up at
Hamilton (N.Z.). In her narrative, strange to say,
there was no mention of the usual assault.
Major Dane was probably unprepared for
the deduction drawn by “ Humming Bee,” in the
D,T., that his lecture on woman showed that he
“ knew and had proved the good qualities of the
gentler sex."
The champion ungrateful man lives at
Wellington (N.Z ). A chemist supplied his wife
with 21 boxes of pills within 28 days. The wife
(of course) died, and now the wicked husband re-
fuses to pay for the pills.
j I love you,” he protested, “ better than
my life. I would die for you if necessary.” “Oh,
nonsense 1” replied the practical girl. “ Swear to
me that you will get up and make the fires, and
I’ll consider your proposition.”
A Down and Gumtree poetess writes a
pathetic screed in which she a«ks : “ How can I
tell him I love him no more?’ ’ We can't say
exactly, but we would do it on the back of a post-
card. We wanted once to tell a man that he was
a maniac, a glutton, and a dog-stealer, and that
was the way we did it. It took very well, too.
Here is a whole dust-cart load of romance
compressed into one short ad. :
<t WOULD gentleman who gave young lady several
' T hooks at the Melbourne Coffee Palace, one con-
toining ‘ Young Mrs. Jardine,' and another ‘ The Wreck
of the Groavenor,’ kindly write to her to the General
Post Office."
Vere ish dot young man now ?
B shop Neville, of N.Z., declares that
among the young girls of that colony there is not
only a want of modesty, but a knowledge of evil,
and an allowance of evil that exhibited itself in
ways the most disgusting.” As all the school
teachers and boards deny the accusation, and the
Bishop says that “he has been told, you know,”
and does not know it of his own knowledge,
things are getting pretty lively for his lordship
They marry not wisely but too much in
Melbourne. Harriet Pender, who left her hus-
band years ago when she was but twenty-one, and
took unto herself another husband, is in the
meshes cf the law. Her number cne husband,
who followed her example and amalgamated with
a second wife, also languishes in a strong lock-up,
and the probability is that both will be gaoled for
the same period and emerge from their tribula-
tions to seek each other’s forgiveness and mutually
smooth the downward path to Kiogdom come
One of the most diabolical attempts on
the life of the Queen was made by a fiend in human
form who started a rumour to the effect that Her
Majesty would give six guineas and a silver cradle
to every infant born in her kingdom on her Jubilee
day. As there are about 1000 babies born every
day in Great Britain this terrible report nearly
sent our sympathetic Sovereign into kicking fl's,
and all possible haste was made to officially con-
tradict the rumour. In spite of Her Majesty’s
well-known parsimony no fewer than 400 applica-
tions for the gratuity were sent in one week, and
the remarks made by the disappointed applicants
were sultry enough to scare the souls of even the
Coldstream Guards.
We beg to bring under the attention of
the Pope the following advertisement in (he
Sydney papers:—“Wanted good masons, St
Patrick's seminary, Manly.” Good Masons!
The Italian Government has just given
orders for the lost city of Sybaris to be dug np
carefully. Sybaris has been lying under seven
feet of water for some 25 centuries, and goodness
only knows why they can’t let it remain in soak
till the Crack of Doom. Our knowledge of the
habits and customs of the ancient Sybarites is
complete enough. We don’t want to hold an
inquest on their luxurious corpses after this long
lapse of years.
Two of the Ballarat town councillors have
scrapped ” to a finish over a question of absorb
ing interest to the bourgeois mind. Both of them
aspire to sit next to the Mayor at Council meet-
ings and be recognised as his Washup’s natural
successor. All attempts to mediate between
Walker and Murphy (the rival candidates) have
failed. A suggestion that the coveted chair
should be widened to admit of both gentlemen
sitting down together found favour until someone
pointed out that such an arrangement would only
aggravate the difliculty. One or the other must
inevitably be next the Great Mokanna. Negotia-
tions having proved abortive, a brief, but decisive
battle was fought last week. Walker, being first
in the field, took up a strong position in the chair,
and Murphy attempted to carry it by assault.
The attack must have been badly planned. Mur-
phy shortly retired for repairs, leaving clots of
blood and broken furniture along his line of re-
treat. So Walker sits next to the Mayor. That’s
settled.
CORRESPONDECE
C. : We don't want to “cartoon” your friend.
.... BP.D. : Thanks....' W S.’: He has not yet been in
office long enough to become a ready first-class liar....
C-C. : We don’t know whom the lady has married; besides,
it is absolutely her own business and no one else’s. In any
case, we don't undertake to solve the countless riddles of
actresses’ domestic life....'Duffy’ (Maitland): We stepped
on a toad onc9, and when we got off it the poor animal
looked just like your sketch. We are considering whether
we could publish it and then get out of the way till it blew
over....‘ D. King’ (Sydnej): The Udston (Scotland) colliery
disaster happened on the 4th of the jubilee month. Tha
Queen sent a telegram of sympathy—a shilling one—but not
one solitary individual cent ....'W.T.D. (Macleay River)
Letter received ; paper nowhere. Why not enclosr cut ing?
• ( .• • ‘ Diogenes ’ (Sydney): Judging from your letter and your
" Poetry," we should say that you are a yawning sepulchre,
the burial place of morality, the abysmal gulf which swal-
lows up the ten commandments, the mausoleum of spiritual
purity, and the scarecrow and Aunt Sally of theY.M.C.A.
We don't charge anything for this diagnosis of your case, but
don’t do it again —: Yes, under the Victorian Police
Offences Statute it’s a criminal offence for anyone to be
found wearing felt shoes or boots. And very properly so
‘ P.S.’ (Hotham, Vic.): Make no mistake about it. If the
defence of every portion of the British Empire is to be the
cast-iron duty of every fraction of it admitted to participa-
tion in the sweets of Federation, Australians will be called
upon to go over to Cape Colony to eat Kafli s, to America to
annihilate future Louis Riels, to India to squelch another
Indian mutiny, or to Russia to cause a depreciation in the
price of tallow. Think againJS’: Your note was mis-
laid ; however, the Nelson was built in 1870 at Glasgow in
John Elder and Co.’s ship-buildiQg yards. Her tonnage is
4673 and her displacement 7323 tons, and she came out to
Australia in December, 1881. The Nelson is sister ship to
the Northampton....* Pinto’ (Rockhampton, Q.): The fol-
lowing gives an abstract of the cost of the wars in which
Great Britain has been engaged since Queen Victories
ascension of the throne:—lnsurrection in Canada,
£2,096,046; first China war, £2,201,028; Kaffir war'
£2,060 000; Russian war, £69,277.694 ; second Chinn war,
£6,640.693; Persian Expedition, £900,000; New Zealand
war, £764 829 ; Abyssinian Expedition, £8,600,000 ; Aslian-
tee war, £927.017 ; Zulu and Transvaal, £4,281,720 ; Griqua
land Expedition, £472,200 : Egyptian Expedition, £3.895,500,
* Hugh Devondque' : Now, What are you giving us 1. ...
* Subscriber’ (Uralla): We read your query ten times and then
gave it up.. *R. Walker ’: No, the yarn is too feasible. Write
something more wildly improbable, and we may consider it...
‘ Lilliput’: Your tale is a gibbering chunk of literary wreck-
age 'S. Marsh’ (W. Bogan): Will enquire; thanks
‘P.A.’ (G ulburn): We read your verses through with
breathless awe, and heaved a sigh of relief when we learned
that the drunkard's wife and child had both succumbed to
scarlet fever; but, tell us, why didn't you “do" for the
drunkard as well? Drunkards’ wives are as plentiful as
parliamentary swindles, drunkards’ children are about as
much as Pulsford's facts, and as for drunkards— thev're
knee-deep almost anywhere. Try something that will stand
the climate... .* J.W.B.’(Murrundi): Your item reads like an
undertaker's catalogue....'Matthew O. Isaacs’: Not to-day
Matthew! * Thomas Curtis ’ (Landsborough, N.Q.); In a
future issue....‘H.V.J.’ (Wilcannia): Will look your MS.
up....‘ Machineman ’ (Newcastle); Thanks for subscription
for Roy; will make enquiries ii the other matter ‘A
Victim’ (Wellshot): Thanks ...*R. Noonan’: Certainly not
A "lady superintendent'' should never be tolerated in any
hospital; a matron in charge of tha nursing staff under the
supervision of a resident doctor is the only prop3r ca;er
*D.’: Wedan’t want to know howto make love verses.
‘A. Apsey’: By and by...,‘J.J.8. (Port Macquarie):
We forgive you for writing to us; but sin no more....
'E.S.S : The real cause of the Sydney Children’s Hospital
row is well known, but has never yet been publicly stated.
* Little Heathen': Please ca 11... .* J.C.N.’: Address, please
....‘Jules Mumm, junior : Will read....*Joe Phanacki'
(Sydney): Thanks; good yarn... .*Zemindar’ (Sydney):
Good yarn, but too long for our columns... .* II W.’: Under
consideration. ...‘ESA.’: True, Australian rabbits could bs
sold in Europe, but then how do you propose to get the bunnies
from the back-blocks to the freezing-works and the ship?.
•E. Samson’: The Argus and Age agree only in one
thing—in hating the Irish.... ‘ Gippslander ’ : Good, but al-
ready dealt with...." A Lady ’: We have written on this
euhjecr, until we are tired. ...‘E.A ': No. The 'Professor
Anderson now performing iu Sydney is not the original
Professor—a man can t live forever—but a nephew of his....
‘ lelliout ’ (Howard): Name, please?. ...• Senex’: Please
send name and address 'Scotty the W.’: Please send
address... .‘W.R.B.’(Goulburn): Have sour verses a speci-
ally personal application? ‘J.M.R.’ (Townsville): Martini
aud Henry are two distiact persons ‘Coal Pit’: How
can a medical man who has never seen you in your life treat
you for a complicated nervous disease by letter ? Woy doTt
you go to an honest qualified phyaioian? There are many
such—'. D.F.X.Y.Z.’ (Hobart): Will read ‘ H.M.C
We haven't seen your sketches yet •C. Marden ’: Pasteur
is not a doctor.
Young Mr. Casey, who committed suicide
at Poolamacca (N.S.W.) last week, was son of
Dr. Gavin Casey, of Brighton (Vic.), who some
years ago gained much notoriety by having been
committed for “contempt” by Coroner Candler,
whom Caeey subsequently proceeded against for
false imprisonment. The case was carried before
the Full Court, but Candler was ultimately suc-
cessful. The question at issue was whether the
Coroner’s Court was a court of record or not.
Our natural history contemporary, the
Noose, says : “ Rabbit fencing is of little use so
long as the rabbits are able to burrow.” In these
novel circumstances it would appear that educa-
tion is about the only thing wanted by them to
secure their wholetale extermination. If Mr.
Inglis, assisted by a few score of our divines,
were to give them an upward tendency, all the
costly strychnine planting and euchre plajing,
now so severely felt by the squatters, might be
saved, •
Mr. Ernest Favenc, the well-known Aus»
tralian explorer and journalist, has recently pub-
lished a most useful work on West Australia,
dealing with the past history of that vast region,
its present trade and resources, and its future
position in the Australian group. The account is,
of coarse, for the most part merely a compilation,
but the hand of the expert may be detected on
every page, and Mr. Favenc succeeds in giving us
a vast amount of information touching a terra
incognita in a form readable to the point of being
entertaining. Everybody who desires a few
hours’ pleasant reading about this interesting part
of Australia should procure a copy of Mr.
Favenc’s brochure. Messrs. Turner and Hender-
son, Sydney, are the publishers.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal—" Human Nature" p. 15
Criterion Theatre.—" Colleen Bawn ”
Opera House—“ Amy Sherwin "
This is a one-horse globe with very few
redeeming qualities. Often, as we gaze on the
hollow void of existence, we are tempted to wish
we were a naked savage with six wives, or a
horse drawing an ash-cart, or an angel and with
the angels stand, or a long haired female on a soap
advertisement—anything in fact but a journalist,
and this feeling was never so strong upon us as on
the night when we sat out “ Human Nature,” at
Sydney Royal. Blighted be the affections of the
man who first conceived that drama; may the
bottom fall out of the cab he travels in, may his
bathing'costume split do wn the back and flies get
into his ear. Blighted be the sallow scene-shifter
who helped to put the piece on the stage, and
but we will stifle this tendency to profanity.
“ Human Nature” is a gorge of-red paint about,
as large as two eggs and an umbrella, with blue
lights and other fixings thrown in, but though it
has a number of good points we would give our
turn-down bedstead never to have seen it.
It is sodden with villainy from end to
end, and where the villainy gives out it is
padded with slaughter. Mr. Oily Dsering takes
the part of a male baby-farmer who carrie3 a
pound of butter in his hat previous to a thunder-
storm. At the close of the second act he is left
sitting on the carcase of an emaciated baby with
a view to making it confess, and when tbe infants
are not being sat upon they are employed hauling
wood and carrying buckets of water, and occa-
sionally they are turned out in a paddock to graze.
The baby-farmer is almost the only character in
the story who doesn’t go to the Soudan and en-
gage in a desperate battle at Dongola, where the
Arab leader gets his foot entangled in his bustle
at a critical moment, and his weeping country
i 3 lost before he can get it out, and then
the hand plays and some chloride of
lime Js thrown over the dead. Mr.
Philip Beck, one of the principal skunks,
escapes on a swift jackass, and takes re
fuge in the desert, where he sits down in the
dust and gazes over the vast expanse of yellow
sand, varied only by the occasional flicking of a
wild dog across the horizon. Here he cooks his
camel chop in his helmet and prays for rain, but
presently he is discovered by the man he ha 3
wronged, and perishes sorrowfully on a heap of
ballast and grit. In his last moments he tells Mr.
Titheradge that his wife didn’t do it after all, and
that his son is in the hands of the party who
carried the butter in his hat before the thunder-
storm, and then the hero gets on top of a slow
horse and rides round Trafalgar square, London,
at the head of a procession. After this, the wicked
lawyer—Mr. H; n. Vincent—is satisfactorily
chawed up ; Mr. Anson, the comic oopying-clerk
who talks with his month full, is duly rewarded ;
and the girl who sent the letter which led
the man who afterwards died on the pile of
grit in the desert to come in at the side
door in the first act, is shot by the
husband whom she had Rft in a fever, and who
after wards made a “pile” in America and came
back to hunt her up by the aid of the wicked
lawyer who was always interrupted at critical
moments by the clerk who talked wi r h his nmuth
full. I( th’s explanation is ifot sufficiently ex-
plicit we can’t help it. The scenery in “Human
Nature” is better than anything in the Sydney
Art Gallery ; the mechan’c il effects are excellent;
so are the limelight arrangements; and the act-
ing i 3 the bast that a good cimpany can do. Cap-
tain De Burgh and Miss Isabel Morris make a
very successful first appearance in this alleged
drama, and the rest of the details are hung over
till next week.
We have viewed the “ Colleen Bawn ”
under many different aspects. We have seen it
brutally assaulted by an iron-jawed actor whose
name, if it wasn't Smith, certainly ought to have
been, and on that occasion the joyous priest sat
with a glass of water in his hand and pretended it
was wnisky, but just as he was going to drink, a
tadpole came to the surface to breathe, and he
passed t lie jug to Myles-na-Coppaleen. We have
seen it drag its slow length along by the side of a
hog-trough painted blue, which passed for one of
Killarney’s lakes, and we have seen a colleen of
55 helping the loathsome deceiver to hold up
Macgillicuddy’s Reeks which threatened to come
down on the stage in a dishevelled heap, while the
prompter hastily shored up the mountain range
with some trees and a quantity of eternal fira
borrowed from “Faust.” Under these circum-
stances, we mean it for high praise when we say
that Brough and Boucicault’s company have suc-
ceeded in throwing some new light on the old
drama at Sydney Criterion. Miss Boucicault's
Colleen is a gem of the first water, and as good as
she is beautiful, and Miss Maggie Oliver exhibits
a pair of stalwart ankles—which we again recog-
nise with much empressement —in the character of
Sheelah. Miss Florence Trevelyan is an impres-
sive Anne Chute ; and among the bull-actors
Messrs. Inman (Hardress Cregau), Haygarth
(Danny Mann), and Bouoicault (Myles-na-Cop-
paleen) are perhaps the best of a good lot. The
scenery—pvrticularly the water cave—is excel-
lent, but sometimes it is not hauled down far
enough, and, consequently, a pair of solid feet
become visible prancing over the meadow behind,
while the owner of those hoofs revels in blissful
unconsciousness of the fact that he is exhibiting
the forked end of himself to the audience.
## # #
Miss Amy Sher win’s voice is, if possible,
in better order this week than last, and the
Y.M.C.A. Hall has been crowded. Even the
moral atmosphere of Sydney clears a little when
Miss Sherwin sings her melodies of rosy seas and
moonlit waters, of summer sunsets and starry
skies, of love and goddesses and drink, and roams
in music over the golden sands of an El Dorado in
B flat whose precise latitude and longitude is
somewhere in the nether bowels of the grand
piano; and when she tells in her sweet soprano of
the dewy morn and the music of the newly-
awakened birds she touches a long-silent chord in
tbe ropy bosom of the newspaper man, who never
yet saw the sun rise except when he was going
home after a weary night spent in correcting
proo's and throwing things at the printer. Excuse
this emotion. It is only a passing weakness born
of rolling in with the milk in the morning and
wishing we were dead.
JL X X
■Tr TV* w tv*
The ever-welcome Miss Essie Jenyns
opens at Sydney Criterion, next Saturday, sup-
ported by that old favourite Plain Bill Holloway.
“ Romeo and Juliet ” will be the opening piece.
## # #
At Sydney Royal Standard “His Natural
Life" is running with continued success, and the
only wild novelty lies in the faot that Manager
Gunther has taken unto himself a wife and a
hotel —the Wheatsheaf, in Castlereagh-street—
where he hopes by industry and strict attention to
business, &c.— same old gag as before. On Friday
“ Romeo and Juliet,” with Missl Dampier as the
heroine, will be put up at the Standard for the
last time.
## # #
Professor Anderson, magician, &c., is
nearing the close of his season at Sydney Gaiety,
and the sword-swallower, the girl who sleeps in
mid-air, the vanishing lady, the floating tables,
and Herr Schoot, the drummer, are spreading
themselves in order to conclude with a blaze of
glory. As it isn’t our style, however, to give
needless pain to our readers, we will not go further
into details.
## # #
Her Majesty’s Theatre, Sydney, opens on
Saturday next, when George Rignold will appear
as Henry Y., a young man who got seven days for
being “ dhrunk and disorderly an’ tear in’ me
uniform.’
AL. AL AL. AA.
Tv* Tv* Tv* Tv*
“Dorothy” is humming away merrily
at Melbourne Princess’s. The opera is a
many-sided success which pleases from
several points of view. You can put your ear
close to the music and look well into it, without
offending the organ of smell. Scenery, dresses,
girls, and groupings are harmoniously blended in
a tender tout ensemble. The dialogue, never
brilliant aud never dull, is a refreshing change
from W. S. Gilbert's, stereotyped funniness, and
the -.plot hangs together in sober disorder. Mr.
Elton, as a low-comedy bailiff, shines right away
through; Mr. Woodfieid scintillates generally, and
Mr. Frederici (inclined to be pretty) sings a good
song lugged in unexpectedly. In the name char-
acter Miss Leonora Braham turns out to be nearly
as sweet as her preliminary notices, which re-
minds us that the Triumvirate’s imported stars
are weighted with too much jam before they make
a start. That smiling sunbeam, Miss Aggie
Kelton, lends much joyousness to the proceedings,
bat Miss Barnett’s non-
descript part is too small
for the wearer. The rest
do something in credit-
able style. Under this
head is included Mr.
Duncan Young, who ex-
cites interest for coi nu-
bial reasons. He app< ars
to be an unassuming
stranger, and might) ass
for Henry Irving oa a
dark night. Tflere is
nothing more to say at out
“ Dorothy,” except that a
marble staircase leads to
refreshment rooms of > ur-
passing beauty. Also i hat
one of the nicest airs in
theoperaislet in through
the sliding-root.
## * *
The Bulletin notice
of ‘ Masks and Facfs"
has brought about the
disgrace and downfall of
our ducal ambassador at
Melbourne. His n me
and titles are erased f) om
the Bijou “list’’ No
more his gentle foot tep
is heard upon the d css-
circle stairway, and from
the proud position of a
deadhead he has de-
scended to the level of
paying one shilling cash
for a fauteuil in the
gallery. In the course of
a painful interne won
Saturday evening, Mr.
Manager Hanson made it
clear to our duke that
the last Bulletin notice
was not such as he (the
manager) would have
written himself. There
was a husky tremor in
his voice, too, which
showed him to be suffer-
ing from suppressed feel-
ings of an aggravated
nature. Something told
our duke that it wou d
be well to withdraw,
promptly and quietly, ai d
in one piece. So the
duke did what some-
thing told him. Rumouis
that “ London Assur-
ance’ was “going well’
reached him in his
exile, but pecuniary
obstacles prevented the
duke from being there to
“THINGS WE SEE WHEN WE
COME OUT WITHOUT OUR
GUN.”
Ire been in this
business 20 years and
know just what the
people want.
see for hisself. Next week The Bulletin’s own
special satiety reporter will say, O ! the nicest
things of Miss Emelie Melville and Co., iu3t to
heap coals of fire on the management’s cranium.
The show has our best -wishes for its success. And
if anybody would like the duke’s head on a
charger it shall be sent, carriage paid, upon re-
ceipt of 13 stamps.
AL. AA. AL. AA.
TV* TV* TV* Tv*
The Sydney Metropolitan Liedertafel,
which appears to be now run by Mr. E. Lewis
Scott—who, by the way, will have some trouble
to pull it out of its mire of indebtedness —gives an
evening for ladie3 and gentlemen at the new
Masonic Hall on 7th September. Mr. Ashcroft
Edwards conducts, as of yore, and ha 3 arranged a
‘‘ fetching ” programme.
#* * #
Last week the Roscians gave two “ama-
toor” performances of “Macbeth,” at Melbourne
Royal, on behalf of hospitals. Some parts were
good, but other parts were sufficiently afflicting
to have justified the prompt administering of in-
door relief to delicate members of the audience.
A pleasing profit resulted.
*AA. AL AL.
TV* TV* TV*
Mr. James MacMahon (by arrangement
with Messrs. W., G., and M.) will produce “ The
Mikado ” at Brisbane for the first time on 3rd.
Oct. He takes a full opera company to Brisbane
for the purpose, at the head of which will be Mr.
Charles Harding and Miss Gracie Plaisted.
** * #
George Darrell’s benefit, at Melbourne
Royal, was a warm and comfortable ceremony,
socially, artistically, financially, and in other
respects too numerous to mention. An address
about two feet square wa3 presented, after which
the venerable Coppin pointed out that George had
not suffered in vain if his illness should lead to
the extermination of typhoid germs by the recon-
struction of Australian drains upon a scientific
basis. It will be one of George's proudest memo-
ries that, after graduating as actor, author, and
manager, he lived to figure as a “shocking
example ” in a health lecture. We are glad to
mention that the versatile one has recovered most'
of his pristine beauty, and—if a barber doesn't
intervene—he will soon be bearded like the Pard.
#* * #
The Italians started their second Mel-
bourne season on Saturday. There was the old
enthusiasm, and * Bellsario ’ went every inch of
the way assisted by Lady Loch and a big house
The one thing wanting was a shilling pit, a want
that will grow bigger as the season progresses.
’Tis true, ’tis pity !
## * *
A most ingenious automaton is now being
exhibited in Melbourne Waxworks. It is a life-
sized figure of a Turk, which reads the Koran,
writes, answers questions, plays musical instru-
ments, and lifts half-a-hundred-weight. The mo
tive power is supplied by electricity,
*AA- AL AL
*«• TP *7P
Many old playgoers of Melbourne will
rememb3r a dramatic season which took place in
the Apollo Hall, Melbourne, some 12 years ago,
under the management of a highly talented young
amateur named James Keating. O’Neill, the
Irish comedian, was the bright particular star of
the season, and Joe Beaver, who is still to the
fore, was the accredited agent. The company
consisted of professionals, including, if we re-
member rightly, Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis. At all
events, that eminent lady took a special
personal interest in the venture. She had a
very high opinion of young Kea’ing’s histrionic
abilities. Well, the season at the Apollo was
neither protracted nor remunerative. Keating at
that time seriously contemplated adopting the
stage as a profession. His Danny Mann was
really a splendid performance. His imitations of
popular preachers were marvellously faithful and
side-splittihg. Ultimately Keating gravitated
into the Government service as an employ 6 in the
General Post Office, Melbourne. He forsook that
berth some years ago and left Victoria. For a
considerable time his friends and relatives heard
nothing of him, but recently it was discovered
that he had been found dead in the bush near
Adelaide !
## # #
A Melbourne newspaper spoke the other
day of our friend, George Darrell, as the “ earliest
Australian dramatist.” This is simple nonsense.
Akehurst and poor Walter Cooper preceded Mr.
Darrell with plays which were full of genuine
talent,
## # #
Miss Nellie Stewart is doing the London
theatres. She thinks “Dorothy” will take in
Australia, but dislikes “ Ruddygore.” We do not
see why the latter should not become popular in
Australia. The name has always been popular
here long before Gilbert or Sullivan dreamt of it.
•U,
W T W
A telegram says that: “After several
years continued boring, a Mr. Weaver has struck
oil at Gisborne.” For several years Mr. J. C.
Williamson and his talented wife have “ Struck
Oil ” in Australia, but there has been no boring.
On the contrary, the audiences have been pleased
beyond measure.
#* # #
Buffalo Bill has written home from Eng-
land to say that, although he has dined with
every one of the royalty, from Albert Edward to
Sir Samuel Wilson, he “ still wears the same old
hat.” This is satisfactory, both from a social and
temperance point of view. It shows that none of
the German princes have purloined William’s
“ cadey ” from the hall peg.
AL. -V, AL AA.
Tf* *A* *7t* TV*
What’s in a name ? In a variety company
now performing at Bathurst, N.S.W., appears a
Miss “ Lily Langtry, the charming young ballad-
ist.” Cheek 1
AL AL AL AA.
TT 'Tv VV TT
Hamlet (in a whisper, and shaking the
dying Claudius by the neck): “ Here, I say, you
must die further up the stage, and leave me
room.” Claudius (sitting up): “ Now, look here,
young man, you stop this fooling. I'm the king
this journey, and I’m going to die iust where I
darn well please, and if you don’t like it I’ll
abdicate, blessed if I don’t."
## # #
A Sydney clergyman, on Sunday week, in
urging his congregation to attend a negro minstrel
entertainment in aid of discharging the debt due
on the church, said : “I know you don’t mean to
patronize black faces in the next world, but would
ask you to do so on this occasion in this world."
#* * #
One of the papers says that the other
Dight Wa’es and his relations, the King of Den"
mark and the King of Greece, were at the London
Lyceum, and after the play they took Irving
along with them to Lady Vaudeville’s in Grafton -
street, where they were engaged to sup. Supper
was ordered for 2 a.m,, hut “ Mr. Irving was able
to go away in time to join a little supper party
given by Mr. Toole to the Lord Mayor at the Gar-
rick Club.” Irviog must have the capacity of
Moorhouse of Manchester for “ digesting great
masses of food.” He is a perfect wonder, and
seems absolutely to do without sleep for a week
or two at a stretch.
Sir Patsy Jenkins, we read, discoursed
with “ vigour and earnestness” in favour of Home
Rule to a Pall Mall Gazette interviewer. No
one in N. S.W. can doubt this statement. His
“vigour and earnestness” on the Home Rule
question, while in N.S.W., were so closely bottled
up that they had to explode at last.
C. E. Jones, M.P. for Ballarat, was
boasting in the Assembly the other night that
they had lots of talent in his constituency, when a
member on the Government benches earnestly
enquired why in thunder they didn’t send some
down there then. C.E. sat down, muttering a
Scriptural quotation about pearls and swine. But
the joke wasn’t original. “Do you get many
good things sent to you by the public?’ asked
W. S. Gilbert of Burnand. “ Yes, a great many,”
replied the unsuspecting editor of Punch. ‘‘ Then,”
asked the cruel satirist, “ why don’t you put some
of them into your paper ?”
In a recent speech, Mr. “Joe” Chamber-
lain gave himself clean away. Having been
taunted with his abandonment of the Gladstone-
Parnell alliance, he remarked, looking round for
approbation among the assembled dukes and
“hons.,” “Now, at least, our associates are
English gentlemen.” Can this be the ultra-
Radical Joe we used to swear by? Since the
night of June 8, 1886, when he walked into the
“ Noes ” lobby on the division on the second read-
ing of “ A Bill for the better government of Ire-
land” he has been drifting, and is still drifting
into political nonentity.
The people of Gosford (N.S.W.) are
wondering where on earth the S. M. Herald rran
heard the speech alleged to have been delivered
by the Hon. John Sutherland at Gosford banquot,
and which appeared in the Herald bristling with
carefully prepared statistics. Perhaps Honest
John thought it was best to inflict it on the
Herald’s readers instead of bothering the Gos-
ford folks with it. Private secretaries ought to
be in great demand among the Parkes’ Ministry.
Gosford, by the way, is a dangerous place for
any politician to speak at. The world remem-
bers how Farnell was affected by the local
salmon.
Mr. John Norton ha 3 not yet, we believe,
been served with a writ for £20,000,000—a fact
which speaks several volumes for the merciful
nature of the Hon. W. Clarke. The “ Baron ”
slandered the Minister in the moat unreserved
and specific manner at a Protectionist meeting on
the 23rd ult., and says he will do it some more
t times unless the writ comes along. For two rea-
sons it is to be hoped that the slanderer may be
called to account. In the first place it is a scandal
that a man who goes round slandering a Minister
should be loose in the community ; and, secondly,
the presence of Mr. Clarke in the witness-box
would be joy to his enemies.
The Argus, in a recent critique, alluded
to Kauri gum as a “ mineral ore.” We should
not trouble to call attention to such a common
thing as a display of ignorance on the part of Old
Goggles, but there does seem a sort of appropriate-
ness linking this mistake on to the views of the
Argus in general. If vegetables are minerals
everything else must be thrown out one move,
chain-fashion, so after disposing of animals as
vegetables, it is clear that in the Argus opinion
men are only common animals, and the two ends
of the chain meeting, minerals—let us say gold—
must usurp the place of men. Now, this does not
seem far fetched for a sermon on small things.
The presentation game is getting played
out in Melbourne. A smart whip-round for
“ Jimmy” Thompson, on the eve of his departure
for Yurrup on private business, only totted up a
beggarly £2OO. Perhaps his “ many admirers ”
are weary of Jimmy and his exhibition arrange-
ments. Anyway, be leaves us a dieappointed
man. They did promise, doncherknow, that
Jimmy should have his finger in the Centennial
pie, but the job fell through. Moreover, her
Gracious Majesty ha 3 distinctly slighted her faith-
ful Thompson. He was to get Bosisto s C.M.G.-
ship when the latter got a Jubilee knighthood.
The Jubilee has come and gone. Jimmy and Joe
are forgotten.
The absorbing question of the day is who
really rescued Johnson, of the Dunbar. A man
named James says he did it; somebody else says
that an Icelander was the hero, and the matter is
so mixed that there seems to be no way of settling
the matter except by throwing Johnson in again
and doing the rescue over afresh. Perhaps by
and-bye it will turn out that Johnson is not the
real survivor, and then there will be another row.
Perhaps there never was any survivor at all, or
any Johnson, either. Perhaps there never was
anything except that feed the other day, and the
drink, and the man who threw himself over the
cliff. Things are so uncertain now-a-days that it
is hard to find a solid fact to stick a hook in any-
where.
Cardinal Moran asserts that bishops “ pro-
mise to estrange themselves from earthly affairs
and base lucre as far as human frailty will per-
mit.” Piling up bank-accounts and speculation in
corner lots, is, we suppose, in accordance with
this promise, which contains the neatest definition
of modern ecclesiastical self-sacrifice we have yet
met. And how fearfully human some of the
bishops and parsons do look, to be sure ! The
“ promise" alluded to by the Cardinal recalls the
B.M. Herald's assertion that Lord Salisbury’s
policy towards Ireland is as conciliatory as his
principles will allow him to be.” Concerning this,
the Lithgow Enterprise neatly remarks that the
same might be said of the devil’s polioy towards
mankind.


pepper
And
Salt
The scene was a Queensland post-office.
It was afternoon, and the postmaster was yawning
wearily in his official capacity when the dull
sickening thud of a pair of No. 11 boots was
heard in the passage, and a large red head ap-
peared through the pigeonhole. “Them letters
was delivered to me this mornin’ in their present
condition, and I refuse to accept them,” said the
head viciously, and two dirty missives which
looked as if they had been sat upon by a dog for a
month were dumped on the counter. The post-
master picked them up and yawned again—a per-
fect agony of a yawn. “ What’s the matter with
'em? Ain’t they addressed to Mr. John J. Stodge
plain enough ? ” “Weill” “ Ain’t you Stodge ? ”
“Ain’t I Stodge? Well I’m blowed. Ain’t I
Stodge ? Ain’t I 1 If I could just get through
this blanked pigeon-hole of yours I’d show you in
about two minutes that I’m John J. Stodge, Esq.,
Justice of the Peace, and letters that ain’t got
JP. on ’em you can just take back.” “And what
in all the colony have I got to do with it?”
“Now, looky here, your g fellow. This is what
you’ve got to do with it. Just you start and put
‘j.p.’ on them two letters, and see you do the
same on every letter that comes for me in future,
or I’ll knock your blessed Post-office down. Ain’t
1 Stodge, too ? Young man. I’ll report you to the
Gov’ment. I’ll teach you to insult a magistrate!
I'll blow your billet about your ears, I will! I’ll
commit you for a vagrant! For two pins I'd send
you up for a Chinaman mining without a license,
an’ if I was just thin enough to get through this
blasted pigeon-hole I’d knock yer ugly head
against the wall! An’, what's more, when I get
ye outside I’ll commit ye for bein’ suspected or
havin’ goods in yer possession reasonably imagined
of bein' stole, and Moses ! I smell whisky, and
if ye don’t get six months for sly-grog sellin’ ye
can call me a jackass.” (Case still proceeding.)
A shareholder in the Commercial Bank of
South Australia received a cheque for one penny
as his dividend the other day. It will be remem-
bered that the pious Mr. Crooks was manager of
this bank. Under the circumstances, we are sur-
prised that the shareholder in question got as
much as he did. Mr. Crooks, with that penny,
might have bought a tract concerning the beauty
of honesty and given it to the first starving man
who asked him for the price of a meal. Probably
he would have done so if he had not been removed
so abruptly from the sphere of his benevolence to
the cruel gaol.
* * *
“A petition having been forwarded to
Lord Salisbury, praying for the honour of knight-
hood to be conferred upon Mr. Alderman Hart,
of Leices’er, a reply has been received stating
that the Mayor’s petition could not be received,
and the question of Jubilee knighthood would not
be re-opened ”
There is a corpse in this item. There was
nothing particular about it; it was only a plain,
ordinary corpse, without trimmings or frills, or
apple sauce, or any other expensive foolishness,
but the doctor who saw it off kicks up more dust
about it than he ever kicked up about a corpse
with all the latest improvements. It was all that
was left of a poor man’s wife; the woman and
her child started off for the Shadow Land within
48 hours of each other, and the child was interred
In due course in the local cemetery. But the
doctor, in a sense, kept the remains of the dead
woman as security for his bill which amounted to
65, and refused to give the necessary certificate
or permit the funeral to come off until a satisfac
tory guarantee wa9 forthcoming. Ultimately,
however, this weird and wonderful brand of un-
approachable human abasement got his guarantee ;
at least he saw a paragraph in the local paper
which announced, in effect, that if an animal
eminently fitted to be a hysena in front and a hog
behind would call at the office, leaving his feet
and his mind outside for fear of demoralising the
staff, he would receive a written order on the
cashier to pay £5 to the meanest object that * ver
had a cold bath when it needed it badly. The
funeral has since came off.
# * *
It takes a man with a choice and elaborate
taste for cursing to run a paper satisfactorily in
New Zealand, and a fellow who wants to get into
Parliament must have the command of langaage
that hits harder than a 300-ton monument. Con-
sequently when these two concuss against each
other the thud raises a dust that does not clear
away for days. On the West Ccast, juBt now, a
brawny ton of soil -we mean son of (oil—is a can-
didate for the privilrge of going down to the
jawiog shop and holding forth till all is blue, and
he and the local paper are a struggling, seething,
rolling, raging mass of kicks, curses, profanity,
and abuse. The politician, who is at present a
THE CROSS-EXAMINATION FIEND
little behind, states in his latest speech that the
journal is guilty of unscrupulous meanness, is a
filthy, abominable, lying rag, audacious and men-
dacious, an infamous publication, a malignant
and false sheet, and a distributor of dirty slime,
edited by a man whose breath would scare a
pawnbroker out of his shop. The journalist
replies that the politician is a colleague of
the Father of Lies, a cowardly soul surcharged
with malice and vindic iveness, who screeches
and yelps with blackguardly fluency, a shapeless,
soulless, grovelling, dastardly wretch who belches
forth torrents of hideous vituperation, and a few
more remarks to the same effect. This sort of
language makes the leading article rather in-
teresting reading.
\ * * /
Australia has been insulted by a Mongol
Commissioner, and if there is a fa r thing’s worth
of kick in the Australian he will resent it. General
Ho—the soft-spoken, bland, suave, smiling Ho—
was poked into a frenzy by an anti-Chinese depu-
tation at Townsville, and declared viciously that
when he got back to the Flowery Land “ some-
thing would be done for better or worse to fit
Queensland for the Chinese.” And that oily,
exasperating, long-headed man of reace, U. Tsing,
grinned in the background, and “hi-ya-ed” in a
hollow whisper to cheer Ho on, and shoved against
the General’s back in the hope of making him fall
into the deputation. After this there is nothing
for it but slaughter. When a yellow heathen
comes across a white man’s path in future he
must be split up lengthways and scalded, and also
fined in a sum not exceeding two-and-sixpence for
each offence, and if this prove 3 insufficient to keep
the Asiatic in his'* place. a Poll-tax Act can be
passed compelling him to drink a bucket of water
twice a day in the presence of the police. This
performance may not properly come under the
head of poll-tax, but the word is used here only in
a general sense. And if everything else fails, an
Order-in-Council should be issued making it a
capital offence for any Chinaman in Australia or
New Zealand to have bones, and the next Chinese
ambassador who visits these colonies should he
compelled first to find and then to eat three
pounds of kangaroo-grease immediately on land-
ing. Such men as General Ho are unbearable,
and firm and statesmanlike measures are neces-
sary for their immediate suppression.
* * *
We are beginning to feel uneasy about
Bishop Moorhouse. Apparently he is painting
Manchester a reddish brown in his own episcopal
way, and his great object seems to be to convey
an idea that Austra'ia is a place where service is
opened with an axe, and the benediction is
into the congregation out of a shot gun. This
may be true, of course, in Moorhome s experi-
ence, but all the same he needn’t keep on grind-
ing out the same oil tune for ever, and the conduct
of a man who goes back on hi 3 old pals like this is
s'ckening. His latest yarn is about a ragged, un-
kempt sen of toil who locked him in a room and
fought several rounds with him, till at last the
infuriated man of prayer was forced to welt
his enemy on the listener and take it out
of his hide and t ead him into the floor.
Then he sp’inkle d the infant of his stunned
adversary and left. The bishop neglects to
mention where this bloodthirsty event came off,
but, of course, i; was sit down as another episode
from the land where preachy men are chased by
sacreligious emus in the course of their pastoral
visitations, and wander about clothed in the hide
of the laughing jackass, and escape from th 9
bounding squatter in a bullock-dray. Somehow
the thin prelate, who is imported and fattened for
the home market, never seems to have any sense
of gratitude. There is an awful scarcity of grass
in the meadow of his soul, and his one ambition is
to get home to England again, and there lecture
on the Australian as an animal who sleeps all day
in a public-htus?, and only gets up now acd then
to spit further than anyore ever did before him,
and feel if h's ticket of-leave is all sa'e in the back
of the trousers they gave him when he left the
prison.
Rev. Teni:on-\Vo ids, who is wiitiag about
his Oriental travels to the H.M Hkrald, spins a
yarn about the weaker bird He says the roofs
of their nests are plastered with c’.ay garnished
with fire-flies, by which, naturalists say, the bird
en’ightens its nest atnight-timp. The ltev. T.-W.
then goes on to speculate that the weaver bird is
“in the habit of reading at night.” “If this be
so,” he says, “ then of course the necessity for fire-
flies would become apparent, and there would be
no danger of fire.” The “ birds of eastern woods ”
(Tenison-Woods) are truly wondrous.
Dear Bulletin, - In a recent issue you pub
lished a letter signed “ J. Armstrong, ’ and vaguely dated
“ D irling River," which contains statements very wide of
the truth. At the pressnt time there are very few men un-
employed in this district. As an instance, a labour agent in
this town has been advertising for thirty shearers, and up to
the present has only been able to engage half that number,
the reason given being that “ the shed is too far off,” the
actual distance being under fifty miles. In regard to the
difficulty betwetn squatters and the Shearers Union, per-
mit me to state that the JBourke branch of that union
selected certain rules from the general rules of the union for
the guidance of its members. Copies of these rules and of
the agreement adopted by the branch were forwarded to all
the surrounding flocknnster', who expressed themselves
generally perfectly satisfied with them ; but oa being
forwarded to the head office at Creswick, Vic-
toria, they were Vetoed, principally on account of
a clause permitting squatters to engage what men they
pleased, the Union demanding that all shearers should be
engaged through the Union officers. The committee of this
branch standing firm to the r opinion that the thing was im-
practicable resulted in a serious disagreement, which is not
yet healed; but practical experience has forced the Union
and its branches which tried the plan to rescind that rule, or,
at least, hold it in abeyance, and advertise that shearers and
squatters would make their own engagements. I fear Mr.
Armstrong is one of a numerous class to be found here, as
elsewhere, whe prefer grumbling to working. The fact that
shearers are on strike at many stations scarcely looks as
though a man who secured employment was looked upon as
particularly fortunate, as stated by your correspondent. You,
doubtless, have ioserted the letter in all good faith, but, for
all that, the statements in it are decidedly untrue.—Yours
truly Wji. B. Dixon. Bourke, August 13,1387.
P—RK-S AND TUB “TEMPLARS.”
The Premier in the North is taking
A busy holiday, and making
Those pledges he’s a knack of breaking
For “ patriotic” ends.
In Armidale to deputations
He’s making many long orations
To “ gentlemen and friends.”
The pious “ Templars,” ever ready
With reeling brains by hate unsteady,
Bray forth like any straying “ Neddy"
Their ugly, darling crazes.
We’d send these dotards water-drunken,
In worst “ delirium” sadly sunken,
To dear old Nick in bl—zes.
But our astuter politician,
‘ Our Constitution’s” own physician,
Smiles with a sanctified submission,
And calculates the number
Of those who curse Anac-eon's treasure,
And thinks he could forego the pleasure
Of wine-inducM slumber.
If from such action sacrificial
Might come results so beneficial
As banishing the prejudicial
Drink monster from our borders.
Oh j p s, did’st dream the cellars hollow
Would send the legions forth to follow
Thy lonely bottle’s orders ?
That hogsheads great of Austral “ swankey,"
Which drives our population cranky,
Would for thy blessed “ hanky-panky ”
Run headlong to the ocean ?
Or that the best of wine and whisky,
Whose influence makes the greybeard frisky,
Would entertain like notion ?
Alas ! my Henry, I am thinking
That while those temperance owls were blinking
Those wicked eyes of thine were winking
With mischief and with laughter.
When all the world is turned teetotal
Then P s will leave the pleasant bottle,
But that’s in dim hereafter.
THE HART BOWED DOWN.
As pants the hart for cooling streams
When heated in the chas9,
So pants this Hart to grasp the brand
That marks his own disgrace.
For that he grovelled in the dust,
And bent the lowly knee ;
For that he poured his treasure forth
To swell the Jew-bilee
The wealth he spent on feast and show,
In vain to gain his ends,
Might well have gladdened many homes,
And made the poor his friends.
But, eager in the sordid chase
To gain the paltry prize,
He strews his gifts around the Throne-
The poor he still denies.
’Tis true they could not titles give,
But now he’s fallen low ;
He might have gained somefriends to cheer
The Hart bowed down with woe.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
They call the Governor of South Australia,
Bill Wobinson.
Parkes says he has been always temperate.
What a powerful argument in favour of rum 1
Rev. James Hennessy, of Bourke (N.S.W.),
has joined the majority. Gone to the spirit land!
Mrs. LaDgtry is going to apply for a di-
vorce. We hope she gets it—for poor old Lang-
try’s sake.
Sir Alfred Stephen, ex-C.J. of N.S.W.,
was called to the bar at Lincoln’s Inn in 1823—just
64 years ago.
J. G. Duffy, member for Dalhousie in the
Victorian Assembly, writes “ Talk upon’Change”
in the Australasian.
J. F. Hogan, of the Melbourne Argus, is
in London publiehirg a book of his, to be entitled
“ The Irish in Australia.”
An enraged Fnglishman has given a new
reading to the letters G O.M. as applied to Glad-
stone, viz. : God’s Only Mistake.
Mr. LoDgstaff, the Victorian artist, sails
for Europe under the cloud of domestic bereave-
ment. His young sister died last week.
Pastor Spurgeon, of Auckland (N.Z.)
Tabernacle, returns £lOO of his salary to his con-
gregation in consideration of the bad times.
Max O’Pell is to visit Australia. We
shill then have an antido e to Bishop Barry’s
London speech in “ John Bull and his Is’and.”
Sir Charles Ddke’s new journal is to be
called “ Greater Britain.” It is thought probable
that Lady Colin Campbell will get a position on it.
Lieutenant Governor Stawell, of Victoria,
who has estates in Ireland, is. although an absentee 5
very popular with his tenants, to whom he has
given substantial reductions.
Sir ohades Cl'fford, of N.Z., was made a
Jubilee baroret “because he is related to many
wealthy and influential English Catholic families ”
He is an English Catholic, and a rabid Tory.
Lady Colin Campbell will probably visit
Austra'ia in the hope of forming a connection
with some of the Australian newspapers. We
hope she hss no designs on tho S.M Herald.
George Augustus Salas “ Fchoes of the
We3k ” are to re appear in the new Entertain-
ment Gazette Sala and Batty-llingston a:e
large shareholders in the venture, which is a joint-
stock concern.
Ah Yong writes to tho Evening News
complaining that ex-Mayors of Sydney were not
admitted to the dais reserved for the e'ite at the
return Mayoral ball. Ah Yong I Not John
Young 1 Quite sure ?
Spoaker Lalor, of Victoria, has three
splendid dogs which are his great pets. To see
tin way in whioh tha Speaker keep 3 ordar, one
would think that me inbars had an idea that he
had them “ convenient” to the chair.
H. Palmer, the Melbourne j mrnalist,
weari a Salvation Army guernsey and takes round
the plate at meeting! of the Army He is about
to undertake the herculean task of stopping tha
use of had language in the Herald composicg-
room at 2.30 a.m.
Sir Robert Molesworth, ex Judge of the
Supreme Court of Victoria, is the oldest barrister
in that colony He wa3 called to the Irish Bar in
1828, nearly 60 years ago. He is believed to be
the best equity lawyer that ever adorned a bench
and that’s a good deal to say.
A Sydney paper refers to the late Justice
Stephen, of Victoria, as “ the leader of the Vic-
torian Bar ” when Sir C. G. Duffy was Premier
Good Heavens 1 this is news 1 When Stephen was
made a Judge the Bar showed what they thought
of him by neither congratulating him in court nor
giving him the customary dinner out of it.
Mr. Edwin Merrall, F.R.G.S., of Mel-
bourne, has been in some parts of Croajmgalong
lately, where, he says, the foot of white man has
never trod. Yet Julian Thomas was in Croajin-
golong writing descriptive sketches for the Argus
last year. But perhaps Mr. Merrall mistook
Julian’s footprints for dried-up water holes.
Dr. Fitzpatrick, the R.C. Vicar-General
of Melbourne, is said to be dying-of kidney com-
plaint. He is 76 years of age, and came to Sydney
in 1839 with Archdeacon Rigney, of Parramatta
and others. In 1848 he went to Melbourne where
he has remained ever since. He has been a capi-
tal business man, and has, while building St.
Patrick’s Cathedral, spent £150,000.
Mr. Speight, the Chairman of the Vic-
torian Railway Commissioners, has, it is stated
received a fee of 1000 guineas for arbitrating on
the claims of the Glerelg Railway Company
s gainst the S.A. Government. Considering that
Mr. Speight draws £3OOO a year from the Victorian
Government, civil engineers are naturally indig
nant at his poaching on their private domains.
The President of the Victorian Male
Assistant Teachers' Association, Mr. P. R o Hare
is a Roman Catholic. Yet there are not more
than half-a-dozsn Roman Catholics in the Associa-
tion—which numbers close upon 100 members—
altogether. This speaks well for the liberal-
minded—some people would call it sinful indiffer-
ence-of the teachers as a body. But, of course,
they will go to perdition for it.
Poor old J. B. Slack, the veteran litigan
of Melbourne, after he was committed to gaol for
throwing a heavy ink-bottle at the head of Barris-
ter Gold»mith in the Master’s office, got three
days’ solitary from the late governor CcsMgan for
not touching his hat to the warder when he wa3
leaving his cell in the morning. As if the man
who snapped his Angers at Her Maiesty’s judges
was going to use them to salute a prison turnkey!
The other day, Fisher, the Melbourne bar-
rister, was for the plaintiff in a case in the County
Court, and Purves was on the other side. When
Fisher was cross examining the defendant he
asked : “ Well, what did the plaintiff say when
you saw him on that occasion ? Come now • tell
us all.” “He wanted me to settle the case.” re-
plied the witness, “and he said that if I didn’t
he’d get the Arst barrister the colony to conduct
his case and be bound tc -e a verdict against
me. ‘ And he kept h i word,” remarked
Purves,
Mr. Wilfred Blacket, journalist, a good
man and true, and a young Australian to boot,
for years sub-editor of The Bulletin, was last
week admitted as a barrister of the NSW
Supreme Court. Mr. Blacket, who is an earnest!
consistent, and enlightened Radical, will, it is safe
to predict, be in Parliament ere long and prove a
thorn in the side of the Freetrade and land-grab
party. Meanwhile Mr, Blacket will, for proper


barristerial consideration, duly tendered throuf h
an attorney, lift up his voice occasionally on b 3.
half of the gentle horse-thief.
Mr 3. E. Lanof ridge, the alleged victim of
the new Mount Rennie ou rage at Port Mel-
bourne. is daughter-in-law of the Hon. G. D.
Langridge, ML.A., land and estate agent, of
Collins-street, Melbourne, Collingwood, and New-
market. G. D. was Commissioner of Customs in
the last Government. His daughter is married to
Mr. R. W. Best, of the firm cf Fink and Bast,
solicitors, of Melbourne. Mrs. E. Langridge is
reported to have been separated from her hus-
band (late an eDgine-driver on the Victorian rail-
ways) for some time past. She is 28 years of age.
What can be that “new sphere of work "
which Jimmy Thomson, the Exhibition man, is
about to engage in, and which takes him back tj
the modern Babylon ? Is he going to write Lis
autobiography telling us of his early years in
Kyneton (Vic ), and of his journalistic career on
the Melbourne D.T, ? Or perhaps he contemplates
publishing a book ent'tled “Kings and Nobles I
have met.” Possibly he intends to take a seat in
the House of Commons, where he and Henniker
Heaton will become the Pitt and Fox of our own
day. A million eyes are fixed on Jimmy’s move-
ments.
George Coppin, (M.P. with Zox of the
white waistcoat, for East Melbourne, in the Vic
torian Assembly) in 1859 announced that, after
fourteen years’ career on the stage h’s final ap
pearance was going to take place and his retire-
ment from the boards was “ Just agoing to begir
George has made many an appearance since then,
for we have heard of Milky White, Mr. Moul',
and Paul Pry (if we mistake not) on more than
one occasion since 1859. He is now a rather
silent member of the Victorian Lower House, and
is setting about building a tramway to run visitoi r
over to the Back Beach at Sorrento.
E. Y. Morrisett, superintendent of police
Goulburn district, has just passed away at the ag
of 55. He was the son of Captain Morrisett, con -
mandant at Bathurst half a century ago, and was
born in that city. He commanded the police ii
the Western district when Ben Hall and his gang
were in full swing. The bushrangers entered
Bathurst by the Vale-road with the avowed ob-
ject of stealing old Dublin Jack's racehorse. The
owner had the horse locked up, and resolutelj
defended his property. Hall and his mates de
camped discomfited. Morrisett got out his bold
warriors, but did not strike the route taken by
Hall and Co., who were permitted to retire at
their leisure. Shortly after this Mr. Morrisett
was removed to Maitland, where he remained,
until the death of Captain Zouch secured him pro-
motion to Goulburn. Morrisett’s brother, R. R
Morrisett, formerly P.M. at Hill Fnd, and more
recently at Deniliquin, died a few weeks ago
Their mother still lives at the green old age of 85.
The old order hath more vigour than the new.
Monsignor Persico, who was delegated by
the Pope to go to Ireland to check agitation, has
evidently yielded to the irresistible arguments in
favour of Home Rule offered in a visit to that
land of churches and workhouses, police and
paupers, or the soft seduction of the native
whisky, and is now more Irish than a Tipperary
Italian. Present signs point to the probability of
his return to Rome with a copy of United
Ireland in his pocket and a National League card
in his biretta.
The South Sydney Freetrade Association
could on’y rally up 30 people to its frant’c illy ad-
vertised public meating last week. They cer-
tainly should have run in 10 more somehow
forty is a number peculiarly appropriate to South
Sydney Freetrade. The result of this meeting
seams to indicate that when Mr. B R. Wise seeks
re-election it will be in some constituency in the
very Far West, where electors are about two
years behind the age. Freetrade meetings can-
not be made to gee in Sydney anyhow under
present circs.
Mr. Goodwin, M.L.A. for Gunnedah
(N.S.W.), is going to resign. Since his election he
has neither been seen, heard, nor read about by
his constituents, and when they advertised for
him, announcing one day that he would hear of
something to his advantage—and the next that if
he came home all would be forgiven, he made no
sign. They even consulted a spiritualist about
him, and the spiritualist went into a trance re-
gardless of cost, and stated that he saw the miss-
ing politician go into a hotel and ask if they
wanted to buy a dog, hut as the location of the
hotel was not stated the results were nil, and then
the electors in despair appealed to the Government
to institute a strict search. The next member for
Gunnedah will be kept chained up in the yard be-
hind the police-court.
Take a long breath before you start to
read this. “Her Majesty has given orders for
Vice-Admiral His Serene Highness Ernest Leopold
Victor Charles Auguste Joseph Ernich, Prince of
LeiniDgen, G.C.8., Royal Navy, to be appointed
as Honorary Member of the Military Division of
the First Class, or Knights Grand Cross of the
Order of the Bath.” Thunder! what a man to
have to call to breakfast! But it seems that
there are so many of these German parasite-
princes living on the British nation that it is
necessary to give them a string of names as long
as a chain of their own sausages in order to dis-
tinguish one from the other. We can dimly
imagine the remarks the recording angel will
mutter to himself when he has to call to judg-
ment this useless German, who, when in command
of the Royal yacht a few years ago, thick-head edly
ran down and drowned some fishermen. But now
we come to think of it, we believe that all Gabriel
will say will probably be, “ Hi, you ! Joe Ernich—
get up, and be d d !”
Thus a correspondent:—“ Mr. H. double
S. Bond asks Mr. Wise to read a shilling pamphlet
entitled ‘ The Curse of Cobden!’ ” Just now he
has enough of curses, and the biggest one is the
curse of Farkes for having made such a fool of
himself at Balmain :
Has not Parkes now drawn a prize in selecting
Rirgaose Wise
To fill up the faithful Foster’s promised place ?
Some “good old-fashioned lies” were explained
by Ringnose Wise
With a grin of grinding spite upon his face.
In a lawyer lurks disguise, which is true of Ring-
nose Wise —
Else the Devil prompted him to blackguard
Traill!
And at Toohey, too, he flies for opposing RiDgnose
Wise
When the independent forty gave him bail!
Now we strongly do advise all the friends of Ring-
nose Wise
To remember how he serves opposing foes ;
We would open wide their eyes to the vim of
R'ngnose Wise —
Keep a grip upon the ring that’s through his
nose!
POLITICAL
POINTS
Wanted, the closure—of “ Good Govern
ment.”
In is a saying in Sydney that what cannot
be Ganetted must be Clarked.
Hon. John Ballance, cf N.Z., is in favour
of N.Z electing its own governor.
Parkes says that DibVs has donned the
uniform of Melville. Yes, Dibbs is in mourning
for Free trade.
Sir George Grey, of N.Z , believes politics
to be a part of r.Fg’on. In N.S.W. religion is
four quarters cf politics.
“THE USE OF ARMS.”
Parkes says: “Colonial youths are not sufficiently trained to the Use of arms.”
“ And on the Rocky Mountains’ height.
Eight thousand feet a bone the sea, love.
My Stella kissed me through the night,
Yes, darling, thou wirt with me, love"—THE POET PARKES.
It has cost £6337 12s. lid. to try to venti-
late the Victtrian Legislative Chamber, and the
draughts are worse than ever.
The Chinese Government have docked the
salaries of all ambassadors 20 per cent. This ac-
counts for Bung Hi’s bad temper.
Parnell is reported to have Bright’s
disease. The rumour is evidently a Tory lie, as
John Bright’s disease is Unionism.
N.Z. has produced £85,000,000 worth of
gold. This is the country that the London Stan-
dard advised to pawn its climate.
“ Why is G. R Dibbs like a winter’s
night ? ” asks Sydney E. News We don’t know,
unless it is because venomous reptiles hate him.
Mr. Gres’ey Lukin, who is visiting Queens
land, considers Griffith's land-tax one of the most
liberal ideas ever put forward by an Australian
statesman.
The Evening News, in a paragraph, calls
the subject of its item a veritable Rip Van
Winkle. We presume the News refers to Hon.
John Sutherland.
A fishermen’s union has been formed at
Botany. If the fish-women start a club The
Bulletin can recommend at least one prominent
politician for president.
Calculating on the basis of the recent
bye contests in England, the Pali Mall Gazette
reekons that Gladstone will have a majority of at
least 24 next general election.
Dave Gaunson has been quoting Scrip-
ture. At least he said, “Go up thou baldhead,"
to Anderson, member for Villiers and Heytesbury,
in the Victorian Assembly on Tuesday night.
A Socialist League has been started in
Sydney. One of their objects is to keep promin-
ently before the public mind the fact that the
Queen’s statue is not yet erected on King-street
pedestal.
The decentralisation scheme of the Queens-
land Ministry proposes that each port alODg the
Queensland coast line shall be credited with its own
Customs receipts, which shall be expended ac-
cordingly.
Abigail told a deputation at Wilcannia
that “ he thought it anomalous that his Depart-
ment (Mines) should have to deal with rabbits.”
Perhaps the length of the ears had something to
do with it.
“Gaffney” writes asking why, when the
British Government releases the murderous slave-
dealer, Zebehr Pasha, it should still keep the
Egyptian patriot, Arabi Bey, a prisoner, to die by
inches in an island in the Indian seas ? I
The proposal to make persons committed
for trial work in gaol, for which Sir W. J. Clarke
: voted in the Legislative Council" of Victoria, has
been passed by the Assembly ! Sir William thinks
every one ought to work in these colonies.
Sydney E. News row speaks of the
“starving” unemployed. Last week they were
“so-called” unemployed. Next week they will
probably be the “honest” unemployed, and the
i followirg week the “ unemployed nuisance.”
The gentle M'Elhone is breathing out
threats and slaughter against the N.S.W.
Ministry. He promises some shocking disclosures
early next session, and prophesies t>>e complete
downfall of one member of the Pat kes Cabinet.
Only 345 deaths in dney and sub iris
during July, the smallest number for the last ten
years. With this decrease in the Probate in-
dustry junior barristers may regard the rumoured
iccome-tax with indifference approximating to
contempt.
“I have tons of potatoes and cannot get
sixpence for them,” said a Glen Innes Protection-
ist to Parkes last week. “Then eat them,” said
‘ 1 our only statesman.” Parkes' potato trap is c f
more than the average dimensions. Haynes says
his masters once tried to borrow £5 to buy one
dinner.
Premier Gillies, of Yictoria, declares he
has heard nothing official as to the desire of the
Fjjians to be annexed to that colony. Of course
he hasn’t The matter stands the other way
about: it is the Fijians who wish to annex the
Cabbage Garden.
Alexander Hutchison, Grand Worthy
Chief Templar, &c , &c , &c , before he got into
the N.S.W. Parliament, was a most persistent
agitator for reform of the liquor traffic. Since he
has been in Parliament he has not uttered one
word on the subject.
Parkes says that “Mr. Dibba is not a
very eminent man in this country.” If Parkes is
to be the judge of eminence, will he tell us who is
the mo t eminent man in L his country ? Let him
answer that! Is it Sir Henry Parkes, C. J.
Roberts, or Francis Abigail ?
Several heathen Chinkies have lately been
run in for watering their cibbages on Sunday. If
the pious Parkes Government were consistent, we
would ask them to do likewise to the Lands Office
officials who have been clearing up arrears on
the Sabbath at 2s. 6d. per hour.
Abigail said at Wilcaunia that, ‘ 1 under the
present system, the man engaged in destroying
rabbits could earn £lO weekly, and it was human
nature that they should become rabbit Protec-
tionists." Abigail evidently thinks that the
pestiverous animal is spelt “r-a-b-i-d.”
In the Victorian Assembly, last week,
Anderson, the tall and bold member for Villiers
and Heytesbury, accused Gaunson of “sympa-
thising with crime.” David replied that such an
observation was worthy only of the Presbyterian
Assembly—which floored Anderson in one act.
Chief Secretary Deakin, of Victoria, is a
supporter of the Victorian Alliance for the Sup-
pression of the Liquor Traffic, and spouted at the
annual meeting in the Melbourne Town Hall last
week. The queer part of the business is that
“ Our Alfred ” is married to the daughter of a rich
distiller.
There has been a row in the Victorian
Assembly about members sitting at the table for
hours at a time writing private letters and other
things. Speaker Lalor says he even saw them
writing out cheques at the table We believe the
Speaker has been mistaken. That is not like a
member of Parliament.
Last year N.S. Wales imported nearly
£3,000,000 worth of agricultural produce.
£2,000,000 worth of it came from the Cabbage
Garden. And Sir ’Emy says the land of his colony is
so rich that all the pebple have to do is to throw a
few bags of seed iq to a paddock, and splendid
crops will grow wit hout any further help.
Four candidates are now spoken of as
likely to put forward their claims to the Victorian
Speakership when Mr. Peter Lalor resigns, viz, i
Mr. M. H. Davies, Mr. Patterson, Mr. CooDer’
and Mr. Munro. Mr. Davies, who has a good
many points of resemblance to the late Sir Wigram
Allen, of N.S.W,, is the favourite at present,
Balfour, Chief Secretary for Ireland, says
that the “ National League aims at the destruc-
tion of the landlords, and not at protection of the
tenants.” To which it might be added that the
Tories are working for the destruction of the
tenants, and not at the protection of the land-
lord 3. There are bushels of truth in our revised
version.
Penny Jubilee medals were sold in Lon-
don in enormous quantities, as were also chronro
portraits of her Grac’ous and Wales. It now ap-
pears that the former were made in Nuremberg
and the latter in Brussels. And yet that poor
Piccadilly man wasn’t excused for hanging out a
banner bearing the inscription, “Welcome to
England I ”
Buffalo Bill’s chum, the Sioux chief “ Red
Shirt,” has a poor opinion of the House of Com-
mons as a legislative machine. He thinks it slew
and complicated, laws btiDg passed much mere
quickly in the U.S. If this is not as bad as
Macaulay’s New Zealander squatting with a
sketch-book on London Bridge, then we are a
Primrose Leaguer.
M-r. Teetotal Nimmo, of the Victorian
LA. will henceforth be associated with
wati r pipes. His action in giving a con-
tract for pipes to the t L’hei t tenderer, fer no
suffipient reason, has don.; more to weaken the
Ministry of which he is a member, than either
Mr. G li’oi’ personal uapopularity or Me. Deskin’s
conversion to Conservatism.
The Bourke (N.S.W.) paper speaking of
Me sr3. Abigail and Clarke, asks
i-irnn no * ; ludicrous to think that we are paying these men
±IoUU a year and "perks to govern a country about which
thry absolutely know nothing ; which they have in fact to
expl re—tbiir * exploration' consisting, be it renumbered, of
a drive in a buggy, with fr. sh re’ays of horses at tvery station
p ovided on the cheap, and chicken and champagne ad lib •
and this sort of exploration the little Gsorge street leather!
selling oockmy compares to a New Guirea exploiing party."
The Speaker of the Victorian Legislative
f ssembly made rather an effective reply to Mr,
Gaunson, a few nights ago, when that gentleman
was quoting from “Todd on Parliamentary Go-
vernment.” “ Todd is no authority on Parlia-
mentary practice here.” remarked Mr Lalor,
quickly. “I should like to know who is, then ?
paid the pet of Emerald Hill. “ I am ! ’ thundered
the veteran, half rising from his chair.
This is Ihe style s atieties are cooked and
served up on a Freetrude platter. In 1886, 82,000
tons of coke were imported into N.S.W. from
South Australia, and appeared among the N.S.W.
Imports. It has since been aserrtained that this
same ooke was exported from Newcastle to Ade-
laide, or Port Pule, carried ti the border, and
taken to Silverton or Broken Hill, and at the
border entered as an Import to swell N.S.W. trade
returns.
The Macleay (N.S W.) Argus advocates
the issue of an Australian centennial decimal
coinage, on the obverse of which should be
“the effigy of Sir Herry Parkes, with a squint in
his sini iter op'ic. holding the Orange in one hand
and the Green in the other; and on the reverse an
effigy of Judge Blank with a halter suqreaded
from his neck, welcoming the population of the
universe to our beautiful harbour with a oat o’
nine tails.”
We haven’t heard yet who bore off all
the elegant trifles used in connection with the
Jubilee celebration in London. Perhaps her
Gracious looked after them herself. At the
Coronation 50 years ago the Lord Chamberlain,
the Marquis of Conyngham, annexed the silver
inkstand which was used when the maiden Queen
had to make her mark to “ Victoria R.” That
inkstand is now used at Slane Ca3tle, Ireland, in
writing out evictions and things of that sort.
By the unconscious clown of the Sydney
Telegraph
“In tin afternoon Sir Henry pi'd a visit to the new gao
at GJea lnues, and expressed great surprise at what he found
there. Thi gaol fs a structure which nas cost £14,000, and
though finished about twelve months has never been occu-
pied. The Premier looked through the institution and inti-
mated that he would give immediate attention to the extra-
ordinary anomaly.”
Parkes is an economist, and he'll run somebody
into that gaol before loog, you bet.
Here’s a sample of the plain English the
are firing off up Glen lones way :
“ If we (the Northerners) continue an integral portion of
New South Wales, the balances on conditional purchases,
as paid yearly, will be, as they are being now, transferred to
the Treasury chest, Sydney, never to return to m again in
any form. That will annually decrease our pre3enn asset
against our share of the National debt; the capital debt
meanwhile not ooly remaining for us to share in bearing,
but the dead certainty looming before us as well, of having
it increased, and that at no very distant date."
In Melbourne, at the deputation of
fishermen to protest against -the wholesale impor-
tation of Mrs. Baillie’s Crofter herring-catchers
(good enough fellows, no doubt, but what have Vie
torians done that they should have to support
them?) the Hon. L. L. Smith and James Munro,
M P.. ran amuok at each other concerning their
knowledge of things piscatorial. “ Why!” Bhouted
the genial sawbones, “ I understood fishing before
you were born ! ” Fish, fishing, fishy. Exactly.
Bendigo Independent says : — “ There is
no need to conceal the fact any longer—Victoria
stole a march of a quarter of a century on the
other colonies when she adopted a Protectionist
policy.” This most truthful assertion makes the
A rgus squirm, and it gets funny and writes :
“We didn’t know that the fact was hidden from
Australia and only observed by our discreet con-
temporary.” Now, does not the proverb say,
‘ 1 There are none so blind as those who will not
see” ?
Only last week a N.S.W. squatter was
complaining to two foreigners that the land laws
were worse here than in Russia, when one of the
swagmen said, “Yes; in my country the Czar
would soon fix your tenure.” “ How so ?” said
the lessee. “ Well, he’d say: ‘ How have you 50
miles square of land? It is too much. Consider
it all forfeited except one square mile, and I give
you four weeks to remove your flocks from the
remainder.’” That Russian Finn still shoulders
Matilda.
While Monsignor Ruffo-Scilla, who brought
the Pope’s Jubilee present to the Queen, was in
London, he was shepherded the whole of the time
by eminent Tories who laid themselves out for
preventing his meeting the Parnellites and
Gladstonians, lest he should become well-informed
on Irish affairs and carry back undesirable news to
the Vatican. Her Gracious was particularly
sweet to the Monsignor—sent him a Jubilee medal
and her portrait, and begged His Excellency’s
photo, in return. Salisbury had the Pope’s envoy
to dinner, but kept it dark lest it should give
offence and create alarm in certain quarters.


fig <3 Cross of />*- <*d
k inferior arrange-
W\ me rit
fs
% ftectc? of 1/)?
df
71 4
OUR artist is not exactly an architect in the strictest sense of the term, and he can manage to
get on without the dazzling prize offered by the Government, even if the attached designs for
Parkas' dead-honse should miss fire. But he is a whale for glory, and for that reason he means to
win. A brief explanation of the plans and specifications is due to the reader. No. 1 is the morgue
as it ought to appear if the stonemason catches on and the bricklayer is capable of appreciating the
sublime and the beautiful, and is able to explain it to the plasterer. It is of no particular order of
architecture, but it contains a tower or two, an eight-day clock, and a statue of Giief sitting on a
monument and weeping at nothing of any consquence. This figure will be propped up by an urn
and placed as high as possible to avoid the brick-bats of the common, soulless herd. “Grief” will be
a male figure wearing a bell-topper with a colossal weeper attached; it is manifestly impossible to
place a Sunday plug-bat on top of the usual lachrymose female, so it must be a man. A grand
view of the Lachlan Swamp will be obtained from the crown of the hat; the head will be hollow,
and in all other respects true to rature, ard the figure will wear blue spectacles A concealed
pumping apparatus will connect the eyes with the city water supply, so that the statue can
weep at any great calamity, such as the death of J. C. Neild or the Pcet Alien, but every care will
be taken to prevent the statue getting water in the head. A fog-whistle between the lips will
enable the image to give a toot of astonishment on hearing that a colonial politician
has refused a K.C M. G.-ship, or that those colonial troops yet unborn have
wiped out a colossal etemy on a foreign battlefield. These two appliances, being mere after-
thoughts on the part of the artist, do not appear in the design, and are left to the intelligence of
the scu’ptor. The body of the statue will be hollow—indeed, it will be hollow throughout; grief
generally is when lost legislators are in question—and towards the lower part of the waistcoat a
commodious refreshment room will be fitted up, at the bar of which buns, saveloys, gingerbeer,
and other light refreshments may be obtained from the Government official in charge. The legs
of the sta'ue will also be hollow, and the troueers cut rather wide One hand will be extended as
if in mute appeal for a loan towards burial expenses, and it will settle its collar
with the other. As regards the Dead-House itself, the black parallelograms (Fig. 4) represent
the graves of the gteat and good. The larges) ones are for the heavy-weight members of the
Legislative Council, and the real for national bereavements of ordinary dimensions. Each tomb
will be supplied with an air cushion and spring bottom so that public “bodies” will be thoroughly
comfortable, and other fittings may be arranged on the application of the corpse before he is a
corpse. In the lower cellar of the Dead House (Fig. 6) also dotted line Fig. 1) catacombs may be
erected to receive the overflow of the principal morgue. Deceased persons will here miss many
of the comfor s of the mausoleum proper, but, of course, la'e-comers must take their chance
of finding standing room only. On the top floor (Fig. 5) will bo a large and commodious room
for thanking victorious troops, and most approved machinery for the purpose will be kept in constant
readiness (See Plan). Envious rival competitors may point to the billiard-room, the bar, and the
electric-bell coonecing with it, shown in the plans as catch-penny dodges to secure favourable con-
sidera ion at the hands of statesmen [?]till unburied. Well, perhaps so, perhaps so The artist has cer-
tainly tred so far as human ingenuiry and foresight can go to meet the wants of the dead as well
as the objections of the living—and he points to the water-bottle (shown in Fig. 5) as an evidence
that he has not omitted even the most trivial detail, and has endeavoured to anticipate every pos-
sible contingency. Cases have been known where even members of the’lower House “took water."
Parkes' Dead House—Again?


(RBTJTBH 8 tLRSSAOB.)
Home, Wednesday. Hts Holiness the
Pope has announced, in response to the
offers of the Government of New South
Wales, that the Propaganda is enlisting a
number of priests, mostly Irish Trappista, to
undertake mission work among the abori-
ginal* of that eolony.
Ouf-o/ too o/ /«sA»//«y tuM y
/%4. (J*r* offtitn. Hy CoftlwyyeA , .
•• jj v CofoO'C* cere. oe* cirtLti)?} Q*oS<&t»(o foG*
/ * ° CouyJr-y ’ f*yi f»io 3 “». '/ ?' *"
7g ujot*r~ 6y Setof/pfUJ
Jlfl/jfisfS rc.fi To uior-a.
ifocoe*?. Sacc* dio-jy %e./r,
7/-ay6/rarS 6/ <*■?? hearts Ci.r)d Zjfe njor*7rafis
6fnng co/ty 6o-fr<at- m oply /o/~ (
> 6a. rxn.66/fi 7ixtfi3' |
JJ (ofac,/}your- jobless Catjt -
j /<rrnp po'efe.ctr joed fiei el fifey
ra. 66/fin 'S uyte-ss /peer jaii-
■7j%£3 j et.cC 6ee.p ufi Coutj7ry
Ctycf 6tep 6et9*af*c{ *.j tyt-
a. ?ct a/eerta Cuaj. "
7/ / 7tr /s
_ />>c«. £•- '•’fc qhK’Xr'* 7 "'S'
ft •
_ j m , T
OP£XAToiTy^f 7?otC jy* eAJ£Ky t /Voi particular
cDcjulclyou S/ke To 6 c /ook Citopjg iS^ci^
of ? " > ,
<*?/*£=*// ?y- Ol
//> ■faCetf £uf~%e. <?//«> J 7"
It 1. rtgarded M
itt the vtcfnity °' itlg t 0 their dangerou*
SSSSSSI3!— *-•
Jb/hj as fttaM
of *«r •MW'V *>*•;
J.t%< **- +*t •
London, Friday.—The Pope has received
6 comm uni cation from Cardinal Moran,
containing an offer of 300;000 acres from
the New South Wales Government in con*
motion with the Roman Catholic mission to
the aboriginals.
•#ncf Su-ttf uyto ty&v. 7oi£e
your Journey, ?7er/$ er s7«ures por iCrifi t ye/75*' r
6r*ctci, yo?*y, pesfyer jure 7u>o
Coctfc ciybjecfi are Sent- you/rotp 7a-
£uf 76 ere fJ potf'O? /o r If' y.
A-,yo at/ rt*/<*o<t ri e y °/f er y u ‘ '
S?ecessar,ty fory*<*67Scc<t/00. 60c7- co c«, */
f e> o ol^fcc. ’/ 7£ __ 74c 77 t,ccp Urttep .
sd
Bishop Barry presided at a combined cotv
fereuce, ncld fa the Y.M.C.A.-ball on Tuesday,
for the purpose of securing concerted action ot
the various churches throughout the colony itt
the religious celebration of the centenary,
the following resolutions were agreed upon
unanimously , , . , .
1. "That the various churches be invited to
bold simultaneous religious services, suitable to
the occasion, ou some Sunday to _, be
hereafter "•=-p , opoeed by the Uou. E. Vic ter/,
and seconded by ihe Bey. Dr, Jeilens.
Tr,Yie<A of rAKtrf*
jfi e3e fjervic «i‘ ti.M naturally Uo/a,
Jluyvre-a-t Cfa.ra.cfar .
t*3uf- (Dfo /</ ftfurv*f 7se- CorfieS ?
Hop. Pickings.


Society
the gentlemen, everything went merrily until
supper time. When the majority of the refresh-
ments had disappeared it was discovered that the
guest of the evening had not been invited to par-
take of them. The promoters of the “surprise"
had been too attentive to their own particular
friends to rsmember their duties to their guest,
who, however, received their apologies most
graciously.
* * *
It is whispered in Melbourne that His
Excellency’s aides have a pretty lively old time of
it at Government House. They are kept “on the
bounce ” from early morn till all hours of the
dewy night, running messages, or attending vice-
regal rambles. They are thinking of forming a
union, and hanging out for the eight hours' boon.
It is, however, but fair to add that they only
fetch home the groceries and the week's washing
when the kitchen boy has got the mumps or a
holiday. #
Emily Bamford has been arrested and sent
to Yarra Bend Lunatio Asylum for attempting to
get into the dress-circle of the Melbourne theatres
fantastically dressed, and wearing a flaxen wig.
An English paper calls a C. M. G.-ship
“ the lowest grade of the lowest order in exis-
tence.” We print this because we know it will
please Mayor Riley and a number of other persons
who have not been offered even this distinction as
a reward for their lavish loyalty. The Poet
Halloran, Crown and Anchor Roberts, and their
Australian Companions of Mickey and George
will, no doubt, also read this item with a glow of
pleasure.
* * *
The Qaeen planted a tree in the garden of
Buckingham Palace in commemoration of her
Jubilee. And now they say that there had to be
a guard placed over it in order to prevent enthu-
siastic colonists from ca"ryin 8 it away piecemeal,
as was done of old with the True Cross. One dis-
tinguished Potts Pointer is faid to have been
cm <ht carrying away a chunk of it in his ear, in-
tending, as it was thought, to have it made up
int i pipes and snuff-boxes to give to his friends.
We cm quite believe the story. We have seen
h s ears.
* * •
1 f Mayor Cain, of Melbourne, doesn’t get a
kmgh'hood for Jubilee there will be a row in the
City Council there soon. History repeats itself.
Years ago the City Fathers sent a remonstrance
lothe Colonial Secretary because John Thomas
Smith (Father of J. T. P. Smith, Crown Prosecu-
tor), four or five time 3 Mayor of Melbourne, when
he went that memorable trip to England with a
chaplain did not return with a handle to his name.
The answer then was —goodness 1 it is nearly
thirty years ago -that though Mayors of English
Municipalities were honoured, it was not the cus-
tom to bestow favours on colonial Town Hill
bosses. But the custom ought to have been
altered in all this time surely. A further little
thought strikes us Alderman Benjamin was
“done out” of the Melbourne Mayorship, it will
be remembered, because they did not want to
1 ave him for a J übilee Mayor as he would get
knighted. And now Mayor Cain isn’t knighted.
Yah I
* * *
A ccmpany has just started to build a
pier at St. Kilda (Vic ) It is estimated to cost
£50,000, and there are to be shops and a pavilion
for concerts on it. The admission will probably
be sixpence, and an effort will be made to get it
completed in time for the big Exhibition.
* * *
Modesty is not always “ good goods,” to
judge from a little incident down South. A local
council was discussing whether the incoming
Mayo' should have an allowance. The Mayor-
e'ect wa' present, and voted against the allow-
ance. Tne numbers were even, and the chair-
man. in giving the casting vote against the
money, said he did so, although his opinion was
the other way, because the coming Mayor had
himself gone against the proposal. Cute but
cruel, wasn’t it ?
* * *
The system of nominating surgeons and
physicians by poll of the subscribers to the Mel-
bourne Hospital, though unusual outside Aus-
tralia, has one thing to recommend it. This is the
gain to the funds of the institution caused by the
subscriptions of those who want to “get their
man in.” It is calculated that the Melbourne
Hospital has gained fully £5OO per annum in late
years from this cause alone.
* * •
The ball in aid of the funds of the Mel-
bourne University Cricket Club is to take place
during nexb week. Fancy dress will be optional.
Special attention is to be paid to the refreshments,
it being asserted that the champagne-cup at the
late medical students' ball at the Masonic Hall,
Melbourne, largely added to the takings of the
faculty next day.
* * *
There has been a difference of opinion
concerning an election at the Society de la Colonie
Francaise de Victoria, or French Club, in Swans-
ton-street. Ssvaral members threaten secession
from the club.
# * *
A successful colonist down South, whose
guineas (of which he had a superfluity) had been
made originally from out of sheeoak and the fire-
water of the publican which sendoth the child of
the diggings off his head, lately arrived in the
modern Babylon, and at a Primrose party was
marked out for a subscription to the Jubilee In-
stitute by one of the Primrose dames present.
Now, as living in London is expensive, the sou-
thern Creams did not particularly care about
“forking out ’’ anything for the Institute, as he
k Qew _never having up to then grovelled—a
knighthood or C.M.G.-ship was beyond his reach,
and quite out of his calculations. Bat this is
how the Primrose one managed it She said loudly
enough for the poor colonial to hear, “Who is
that distinguished military officer? Will you,
dear Lady —.introduce me?” Now, if the
truth must be spoken, the Australian's appear-
ance from a military standpoint was “ pathetic,”
but after this of course a fifty-pound donation
came down like water.
* * *
Mr. Singer, American sewing-machine
man, fiance to Miss Graham, of Hobart, has pre-
sented the church she attends with £2OOO. The
congregation is now, like a child with an un-
accustomed shilling to spend, considering how to
invest the cash to the best advantage.
* * *
Hobart folks seem to have a happy knack
of “mulling” mo3t things they undertake. A
little while ago a surprise party was organised in
honour of a well-known maltresse de danse, and
the affair came off in a local assembly room.
Except for the fact that the ladies outnumbered
A QUESTION OF BALDNESS,
SHE: “HOW DO I LOOK ! ”
HE: “MUCH TOO NAKED.”
SHE: “NEVER MIND, DEAR, IF I LOOKED AS NAKED AS YOUR HEAD, I SHOULD
BLUSH.”
They didn’t mind the wig, but when a woman
attempted to go into a dress-circle dressed they
knew she was mad.
* * *
Much interest has been feb in Hobart
lately over two weddings, the difference in age
between the respective brides and bridegrooms
being the subject of much comment. The first
took place at All Saints’ Church on the 16th inst.,
when Miss Emily Wilson, daughter of Major-
General J. N. Wilson, of Pengreth, Tas., was
married to Mr. Francis Mitchell, of Vaucluse,
Hobart The bride wore cream cashmere em-
broidered with silk, tulle veil and orange blossom,
and looked young and pretty. Her bridesmaids
also wore cream costumes, the seniors having
tulle bonnets to match, and the juniors wreaths
and veil 3. Honeymoon in Melbourne. The second
wedding came off the the 23 rd inst. On this occa-
sion May and December were personated by Miss
Alice Stanley, of Hobart, and Mr. William Lade,
of Scottsda’e, Tas. The bride wore brown mer-
veilleux and lace, with bonnet to correspond, and
looked quite 30 years her bridegroom's junior.
Three bridesmaids wore fawn-coloured costumes,
bonnets to match relieved with heliotrope
feathers. Verify, eligible young men must be
very scarce in Tasmania, or can it be that the old
men are very eligible ?
* *
There were no less than 08 patent medi-
cine and quack advertisements in a recent issue
of a Sydney evening paper. No wonder they did
not care to publish the evidence given before the
Medical Commission. They have no belief in.that
Creed. .
* * *
It is an established fact that ladies who
de3ire to assume “ matrimony’s rosy fetters” fre-
quently spend their substance on long sea-voyages
in the hope that some lonely, sea-sick man will
view their charms with favour. But proposals on
the poop or in the boudoir don’t seem to hold when
the parties get on to terra firma again, as witness
the breach of promise action brought by Mrs.
Emily Child against Mr. Hector Arden (both of
England). In seems that in the early part of the
present year the gallant Hector and the widowed
Emily were passengers by the R.M.S. Ruapehu,
plying between Auckland (N.Z.) and London.
During the voyage they became friends, shared
their infallible remedies for sea-sickness—flirted,
promenaded, and studied the great deep together,
until at last Hector asked Emily to be hi 3, and
she—being 40 years old, and having nine children
—dropped her golden head on to his shoulder and
faltered (probably), “ You bet! ” No sooner, how-
ever, had London been reached, and Hector and
his Emily gone to their different abodes, than he
showed signs of wavering, owing probably to the
fact that marriage with a forty-year-old widow
with nine children was not exactly the proper
caper for a fellow who wanted a good time. In
spite of a letter he wrote containing the statement
“ Elly, dear, how jolly it will be when we are
one! ” his affection steadily wavered until it
failed altogether, and he strove to give his widow
the slip. It cost him £2OO damages,
* * •
The tinned-meat industry is threatened
with complete and utter destruction. Not long
since a Mongolian corpse was exhumed and neatly
packed for export to its friends in the Flowery
Land. It was dispatched safely by the s.s.
Woosung from Wellington, N. Z., labelled “ Pre-
served pigtail. This side up with care.” Ye
gods 1 what a chance for army contractors.
• * *
There is voluminous correspondence ap-
pearing in the Wellington (N.Z ) papers re gas
bills. One householder aver 3 that, although he
has been out of town all the month, his account
is 75 per cent, greater than last month. We go a
step further, and remark that an enormous bill
for gas was handed in to us before we even had it
laid on.
* * *
Perth (W. A..) boasts of but six hansom
cabs 1 The deadly warfare that must wage over
these innocent vehicles when Perth breaks out
socially is awful to think of. However, Perth has
plenty of gaol-vans.
* * *
At Amy Sherwin’s vice-regal command
concert, Lady Carington wore a black dress with
elbow sleeves of black gauze, a red camellia and a
diamond bird in her hair, and red and white
camellias in her corsage. “ Her Excellency as
the E. News phrasr s it—also wore diamond shoe-
buokles. Miss Sherwin wa3 attired in white satin,
with shoulder straps, and cut low in the bodice.
She carried an immense bouquet, and looked
charming.
* * *
The Columbia elite skating rink, Sydney,
was very full on the occasion of the Skating
Carnival held on the 23rd inst. There were no
spaces in the building ten minutes after the open-
ing of the doors, and later on the crush was
almost mortal. Almost all the skaters and
ska‘ere3ses were in fancy costume —Mr. R.
Skinner (manager) being especially gorgeous in a
suit of blue and white satin, while a young lady
in billycock hat—shirt—vest, tasselled cane, and
spry-looking coat, figured most successfully as a
“ mashah ”of this so-called 19th century. We
are afraid the dance programmes were superfluous,
as most of the Tinkers only did the orthodox
round whether the music was a valse or a fandan-
go. The salt of the show, however, was the
Grand March and Procession in which all the
skaters (over three hundred) evoluted to march
time, while coloured lights were thrown on them.
In some individual cases the coloured light ought,
to have been thrown at them, but they were aa
far apart as two true lovers when the gas i&
turned up, so did not interfere with the spectacle.
With the exception of a blood-and-hair fray over
some reserved seats the whole affair weat off
smoothly.
» * *
From the S.M.H. :—“ If Charles H.
Warn docs not return home in 21 days I intend to
marry again. Kate Warn.” We call this a fair-
warning.
* » *
The very latest London novelty (which we
have no doubt will soon flourish in Sydney) in the
literary way is a beautifully-bcund small edition
of the poets, and nearly every fellow in England
has got one under his arm or sticking out of his
pocket. There never was such a run on poets
before, but this edition contains no leaves. When
you open the cover you find a little flask of neat,
whisky stariDg you in the face. Many ladies now
study the poets while travelling.
* * *
On the occasion of Lady Carington break-
ing a bottle of wine over the christening of a Bal-
main fire engine, Sir Henry Parkes uttered an
immortal truism. Said he: “ There wa3 no
mechanic amongst them who could have per-
formed that ceremony in a more natural manner
than her ladyship.” No, sir ! We will go further
and say thit there wasn’t a mechanic there that,
could touch her ladyship at it! She is “ so ac-
customed,” you know, to the breaking of cham-
pagne-bottles that the can shy fifteen shillings 1
worth at a machine with a idy hand, while the
mechanic would falter and probably look round
furtively for something to catch it in.
* * *
A “ Member’s Wife,” writing to the S. M.
Herald, wishes the N S.W. Assembly to op on at
2 p.m. as the saintly Adelaide Assembly doth, and
not to allow the sitting to extend ov> r midnight,
on the ground that the members' tcloh is im-
perilled. “ Take, fer instance,” says the “ Mem-
ber’s Wife,” “our worthy Premier, Fir Henry
Parkes (whom we could ill afford to lose), whose
valuable life may be prolonged for many years
yet to come to servo his country, if his strength
bo not overtaxed with prolonged sittings after
midnigh''.” Too thin, madame. W~« know why
you don’t want your member coming home to you
at 1 a.m.
• • •
A man may not marry his grandmother,
and, as a ru’c, he doesn’t want to. Now and then
an ancient Egyptian used to marry his si9ter, and
then for the rest of his life he would come to the
surface to b-eatho every five minutes, and go out
behind the ancient Coptic coal-hole to ask himself,
in his artless cuneiform manner, why the Egyptian
dooce he did it; but all this is out of date.
The N.S.W. law, which permits a woman to marry
her deceased husband's brother Bill, or fomething
to that effect, leads to complications. Listen to
this from a Corowa journal :
“ Smith —On May 19,1887, suddenly, in her 45th year.
Maiy Smith, of the anoye, and bj.'oved wifi
( ,f —■ —, Esq., of Someiß:t House, England— :h) bs-
loyel grandmamma and aunt of Mrs , of
Wahuuuyah.”
We started to figure out the relationships in a
family where one lady suddenly, in her 45 h year,
was the aunt of her own granddaughter, but we
gave it up. The otily conclusion we can arrive at
with any certainty is that if Mrs. Smith had lived,
and Mrs. had had a daughter, who grew
up and married a msn whose father was also his
remote ancestor and his brother-in-law at the
same time, and they had had a baby, and it had
died through scalding itself, it would have been a
very sad circumstance, and the old lady might not
have been able to survive the shock. But as the
untimely fate of the supposed baby with the mixed
parents could hardly have tangled things up
much worse than they were our elaborate theory
has no very direct bearing on the case,
# ‘ *
A most unforeseen accident happened re-
oently at a certa'n Australian skatiDg rink. One
young lady was observed to fall and remain so,
and when some people went to her assistance it,
was discovered that a bonnet pin had penetrated
her head and killed her. She was carried out,
dead. So, girls, beware of the deadly bonnet-pin,,
and don’t put it anywhere within reach of a vital
part. The matter was carefully hushed up.
The European Mail publishes the follow-
ing unique passenger liet (by the Charlotte Pad*,
bury) for Freemantle (W.A.)
First Saloon.—A. Percy Toppin.
Second Saloon.
Thomas Carter I Percy Carter I Laura Carter
Mary Carter Herbert Carter William Carter.'
Tom Carter I Harold Carter | Sydney Carter
And 3 steerage passengers.
We expect, however, before they ge.t far on their
way, A. Percy Toppin will mingle with the vic-
torious Carters, while the vu'gar trinity look oa,
with awe and longing.
* * *
The eldest and amiable daughter of
Charley Stockwell—Whiteman, hotel-keeper, and
generally good fellow, of MoloEg -has gone into.
double-harne3S with Mr. Kenna, a local solicitor,
and whilom secretary to the local race club there.,
• * *
The Sydney stationers’ first annual ball
will take place at Needs’ rooms, Nithsdale, on,
Friday, September 16. The hon. sec. is Mr. W. H.
Moss, Box 683, G.P.O-
-* * *
Mr. James Payn, who is generally sup-
posed to write the London gossip for the Mel-
bourne Argus, is getting slangy in his old age.
Here is a choice specimen from his last letter
“ The Girton girl at Cambridge has given a smart smack in
the face to the advocates of classical education. This Latin
and Greek cannot be so very difficult after all, if a young
woman, after a few years’ training can wipe the eyes of all
the men of her year at it, who have been mugging at the dead
languages ever since they were children.”
Shades of AddisoD, Macaulay, and De Quincey If
a poor devil of a reporter were to write like that
for the—aw !— Australian Times what would
happen to him ?
* * *
Dr. Goe, the Anglican Bishop of Mel-
bourne, objects to Mr. Shiels’ Divorce Bill on the
ground that if carried it would tend to weaken
the sanctity of the bond which should exist be-
tween parents and their children. Now, it is
remarkable that not one of the three bishops of
Melbourne—Drs. Perry, Moorehouse, and Goe—
ever had any children.
• •
A hole-and corner meeting, called by Sir
Henry Loch at the instigation of the Prince of
Wales, was held at Government House, Melbourne,
last week, to raise funds for the Imperial Insti-
tute. That preposterous temple of Jingoism and
shoddy has failed to inspire any enthusiasm in the
old country, and H.R.H. has shrewdly concluded
i to appeal to the snobbery of the colonial pluto
I feel within me a peace above all earthly dignities, was
the lanjuage of Shakespeare, and the experience of a jolly
little wife who had viewed the town’s display, and after all
made her purchase for the Bedroom, Dining Hall, Drawing-
room and Kitchen at the good old shops of Bray Bros.,
the China and Glass Importers of 402 and 404 George-street.*
Ladles would do well to attend the great sale of the season
Ow on at the London and Paris Outfitting Establishment
McOathi*i 86 and BO King-street,*


cracy. Sir James Macbain represented wool ; Sir
George Verdon, money ; Mr. M. H. Davies, law; and
the Hon Mick Fitzgerald the not less important
interest of beer. Over £3OO was subscribed, and
having partaken of cake and wine in the “ yellow
drawing-room,” the distinguished visitors took
their departure much impressed by Albert Ed-
ward’s consider ation, and Sir Henry’s urbanity.
* * *
A correspondent to a Northern paper
writes of the Brasseys :
“ He is not a bad old toad, but she is rather a notoriety-
hunting hu x bug. She will gush herself to rags if she keeps
up the effusive straia she landed here with, but she will
probably knock up or go slow before she gets your way.”
And this is journalism I
* * *
We have all been taught to believe in
sweet girl graduates. Well, M'Kinnon, the Pro-
tector (whatever that means) of Trinity College,
Melbourne, says that “ the sweet are very rarely
enlightened, and the enlightened are very rarely
sweet. Certainly women have brains, on a modi-
fied scale perhaps, and it is to be supposed that
Providence designed the brains for some U3e.”
And yet Ko-ko has got the lady novelist upon
his little list.
* * *
Some day probably we will die, and then
a grateful nation will fool round with our holy
dust, and upwards of 20,000 people will gather to
tramp our grave hard and remark to each other
that we have supplied a long-felt want.
Tenders will also be called for our epitaph, and
When the lowest has been duly accepted, an in-
scription will be chipped above our bead setting
forth in simple pathetic phrase that we never re-
fused a drink. So far we don’t object to the ar-
rangements, but when the anniversary comes
round and someone attempts to put in an “ In
Memoriam ” on our behalf we will rise
and upheave the tombstone and the drooping
angel on top of it, ard the broken pillar, and
all the rest of the tools, and emerge with the
table-cloth round us, to call on him to show cause
why he shouldn’tbsconce a cupre The following
notice frem the Melbourne Telegraph of August
23rd, will explain the cause of these reflections
“ WALLACE.—In grateful remembrance of Sir Wil-
liam Wallace, Scotland's great hero, beheaded by
Edward 1., of England, on the 23rd August, 1305."
If the late Wallace, in an interval when he isn’t
waving his battle-axe on the evergreen shore,
should chance to see this advertisement we can
just fancy how he’ll carry on.
* * *
Where is the pious man who won’t break
the Sabbath when a sinner shouts ? At Kirkcaldy
(Scotland) recently it was resolved that the Sun-
day excursions on the Forth were an abomination,
and with a view to wiping them cut, a clergyman
stationed himself on the pier and preached to the
crowd about the fate which awaited them in their
last roasting place if they went on shilling excur-
sions on the day cf rest. But in the midst of the
discourse, the man of Belial who ran the boat-,
finding his craft almost empty, announced that he
would make that day’s trip a gratis affair, and
then the whole congregation slid on board in a
side-loDg, apologetic sort ef way and left the
pastor holding forth to empty air. Of such is the
king—no, we positively won’t dish up that re-
mark any more.
St. Arnaud (Yic.) boasts of an institution
known locally as the Young Men’s Christian Asso-
ciation. The members sing, recite, and drink
whisky at the bidding of the president, and if any-
one is dilatory in any of these respects he is
whisked off into the corner and stood on his head.
A local officer of government, who plumes him-
self considerably on his personal dignity, had the
shine taken out of him in this way ten minutes
after being introduced; and a local man of
law was bouleversed upon his cranium until
hi 3 forehead began to spread out like the
rim of a candlestick. The individual who
neglects to drink whisky when ordered has his
nose held and the liquid poured down his throat.
After these devotional exercises have been gone
through, leap-frog, riding the broom-stick, and
similar expressions of piety are undertaken. The
severest punishment which can be meted out for
any infraction of the laws is to be stood on one’s
head three times and compelled to drink whisky
without ceasing until the culprit has to be carried
off to bed. This is not intended for a j oke. It
only shows “what may happen to a man in
Victoria.”
* * *
The beloved pastor of a Chicago church is
in a tight place just at present. It appears he
recently called on a lady lamb of bis fold and
found her suffering from a sick headache. Re-
membering that the apostles (like our own Milner
Stephen) had great faith in the “imposing of
hands” remedy, the good pastor chafed his fair
patient’s feet with his hands, and in a few minutes
time the lamb declared she was “ much better.”
Then the good shepherd said he wanted to be paid
for his trouble, and he thereupon proceeded to pay
himself by taking a kiss, not, however, without a
deal of struggling and now-you-really mustn’t-ing
on the part of the lady. When the husband heard
of the cure, and the fee charged, he hauled his
reverence up for assault, and the kiss cost the
holy healer £lO. Quite a number of other lady
lambs of the same congregation have since been
suffering from sick headaches, but the cautious
divine makes no sign, and has evidently retired
from the chafing business for the present.
One of the medical quacks recently ex-
posed, who announced that “ A clergyman having
tried in vain every known remedy, &c., &c , has
at length discovered a simple self cure, which for
the sake of suffering humanity he will send free
the prescription which cured him,” simply copied
his advertisement, Sairey Gamp grammar and all,
from that of a Yankee fraud who advertised lorg
ago in the Scientific American.
• * *
Quite recently the South Australian
Governor was invited to "swap” to Hong Kong,
but he didn’t agree. It appears now that “ sur-
prise was expressed ” in English circles at his de-
cision. Ahem. What, not be made ruler over
an important foreign possession rather than over a
mere outlandish settlement somewhere in Sydney,
Victoria, New Zealand % Or is it as much as to
say, “Why, he could be looked up to as a real
prince by the Chinkies instead of a mere sort of
superior Civil servant —I know I would ! ” But
he didn’t, so just tilt up the glasses and give “ He’s
a jolly eood fellow” to the titled minion who
positively can, recognize the importance of Aus- I
tralia, and prefers being a man among white men
to a demi-god among Celestial yellowskins !
The English female mind seems to be very
easily exercised. A “ home ” pa; er said the other
day : “ The femalo mind has been much exercised
ever since the Queen's garden party by the fact
that the Princess of Wales appeared in a dress
flounced nearly to the waist.” Humph ! The 1
female mind would, probably, have been much
more exercised if the Princess had appeared in no
dress at all. But we daresay even this style could
be made fashionable in time —if the example were
set by Royalty. Under snob circumstances it
would be a cold day when the leaders of sassiety
in Potts Point and Toorak went out with any other
covering but their cuticles.
« • *
A. wealthy storekeeper in the back-blocks
lately started an after- dinner speech with * ‘ Ladies
and Min.”
* * *
There is a movement on to have the name
of the Melbourne police-van changed from Black
Maria to Victoria Guelph, in honor of the Jubilee
of Her Grashus.
* * •
Some Hobart bachelors gave a ball on the
26th ult., at "Hadley’s.” The rooms were well
decorated—music excellent —a party from Govern-
ment House lent eclat to the proceedings, and the
whole affair “reflected,” &c. A bachelor who
was present informs us that the ladies as a rule
looked very nice, their dresses being made appar-
ently of very flimsy materials with nothing to
spare about the bodices. Lady Hamilton wore
white silk and ne l , with a huge bouquet of
violets; Miss Hamilton, coffee-coloured Indian
muslin; Miss F. Bailey, white silk and tulle;
Mies Anderson, Tabac costume ; Miss Hudspeth,
white. An amateur band from the " bachelors’ ”
ranks lent variety to the proceedings by providing
the music for a few dances.
* # *
New South Wales beef has lately been
tracked to Melbourne and sold at 18s per 1001 b.,
market p ice. It is de cribed as extra prime, and
fetches retail purchasers at 81. and 91. per lb.
Melbourne butchers are doing their best to restrict
the consumption of steak by charging the public
profits that w. uld make a money lender b'ush and
touch the very conscience of a gas-meter.
• * •
Lady Loch weighs 6170 z and Lady
Bras c ey turns the scale at 1670 z. We are speak-
ing of the newly-found nuggets. It is a pretty Idea
to christen them after such revered ladies, and if
ever we stumble across a seventeen-3tone chunk
we will call it Victoria, by the grace, &o.
• * *
According to rumour, things are getting
very giddy in the family circle of a certain mag-
nate who lives in Australia in the interests of Im-
perialism. His Nibs prowls around at night in a
ABOUT ALL HE WAS FIT FOR.
JINGLE : WELL, OLD CHAPPJE, YOU’RE LOOKING PRETTY BAD.”
DINGLE : "YES, I’VE BEEN PREPARING FOR EXAMINATION.”
JINGLE: "POST-MORTEM EXAMINATION, I PRESUME.”
wig and false beard, seeking whom he may
devour, while more than one of h's female rela-
tions find comfort and joy sub rosa.
• * *
Whi'e expressing our sympathy for Lord
Augustus Loftus in this his time of tribulation, it
behoves us to point out that be has previously
filed his lordly shovel. The melancholy event oc-
curred twenty years ago, when 'Gustus repre-
sented Her Pre-eminence in Woe at the crazy
Court of Bavaria. Filling a succession of expen-
sive billets, the poor old boy had no chance to save
money until he came to Sydney, and by that time
his finances were in an inextricable muddle. The
accumulated debts of former days swallowed up
all his Australian pickings and profits on poultry.
We fancy that His Excellency will pan out half-a-
crown in the pound, or thereabouts.
* * *
Long nails are the latest feminine craza in
New York soeiety. Ladies whose nails are short
are set down as common individuals who work
for their living, while a set of claws, each as long
as a Semitic nose, are a mark of idleness and cul-
chaw. Society takes the long-nailed lady to its
bosom, while the short-nailed one is scorned ; in
fact, in the most select circles the door which
shuts out the vulgar herd can only be burst open
with the nails. These remarks refer, of course, to
finger nails only. In its official capacity society
has no cognisance in the matter of toes, which are
merely so many vehicles for the conveyance of
bunions from place to place with celerity and
despatch ; and even a lady with no nails at all on
her feet is not necessarily excluded from those
circles where putty-faced ladies, each carrying a
biliou3, over-fed dog, gather together to potter
about aimlessly and destroy each other's characters
over weak tea.
* * *
While Sewing-machine Singer’s son has
been making hot love in Tasmania, Singer’s
daughter has arranged marriage with a seamy
; European prince whose title dates back to the
Crusades. There were no sewing-machine agents
in the time of the Crusades.
* * *
An American journal says it is not the
duty of the U. S. to become the Botany Bay for all
Europe. Thanks, awfully!
• * *
Though a man can’t marry his grand-
mother, there is no law against a baby being born
in two places at once if it wants to. The follow-
ing, from a London paper, is a case in point:
“ June 2, 1887, at 102 and 104 Blank-street, the
wife of ,of a son.” We conclude that that
baby must be a stem-winder.
* *
Young Sir Henry Tichborne, the “ Claim
ant’s ” friend, has come of age. He is a fragile,
slightly-built, pale-faced youth, with the narrow
shoulders of the man who was supposed to have
been drowned. "The prettiest girl at the grand
ball given to celebrate the maiority of the young
baronet waV’ says a London writer, ‘ the Prince
of Wales’ latest admiration, Mi°s Halllday. If
she is a fair sample of ‘ Tummy’s ’ uraal taste, he
may be relied upon as a safe judge, for she is a
beauty and no mistake. She has one of tho e
faces which catch your eye the moment you enter
the ro'm where she is. Tall and gra-eful, with a
beautUuTy poised h’ad, she stands a queen among
other women. To me her features seemed per-
fect. A nose Greek in the straightneis of its line
from forehead to tip ; violet blue ‘ Irish ’ pyes ;
the mo>t perfect mouth I eve- saw ; dazzling
whi o teeth when she smiles (which is often) ; a
softly rounded chin; a creamy-whi e skin, and
light brown hai’% arranged in c’assic bands above
her low forehead, make up the sum of her facial
attractions. In face and expression, especially
about, the corner ourves of her peifectly-shaped
mouth, when she smiled and showed her glisten-
i ig tieth, she reminded me most forcibly of poor
Adelaide Neilson. 1 hat she was run after by
meD, both old and young, goes without saying,
and I thought she was not lessened in her own
esteem by the royal notice her beauty has re-
ceived, Apropos of balls, men's drais coats now
have silk collars, and broad black stitching on the
backs of their lavender gloves is all the ‘ correct
think, don’t you know.’ ”
* * *
There is a considerable rush for divorce in
Sydney just now, and it is evident that there
still exists abundant room for Bishop Barry to roll
along his moral meat-cart Mr. Gray, of Albury, in
particu’ar, rises to state that he has had enough
of it, and that matrimony is as great a fraud as a
Kurts’ allotment. In 1876 he began to sing love
ditties to a Melbourne barmaid, and the barmaid
he sang to apparently didn’t care a brass farthing
for his song, but she married him none the less In
1879 he found himself compelled to take high moral
grounds with his bookkeeper, who seems to have
been a bad lot, and a few months later he again
found it necessary to ask him what he meant by
it. Then there came another bookkeeper, and a
few months later Gray got home to find his wife
wallowing on the hearth-rug in a fiendish state of
drunkenness, and hailing the new clerical assis-
tant as “ ducky,” and asking why he didn’t come
to her. Then the husband went out wearily, and
intimated to his assistant that he was able to do
all the “ducky” business in that establishment
himself, and asked him also what he meant by it.
There was a vacancy for a bookkeeper after this,
but some little time later the ex-ducky came over
in the gloaming and the lady sat on his knee, and
the husband thrashed him in a languid sort of
way, and banged his head against the wall, and
he vanished temporarily from the scene. The
pair afterwards met at Brighton and elsewhere,
and sat on each other’s knees for some months,
both drinking most of the time, and after this the
lady returned and painted the town blue for two
years, in company with various larky strangers.
She next went and sat on the knee of a hotel boots
named Plain Smith, and for about the fiftieth time
Gray had to ask him what the dooce he was up
to, and though another reconciliation followed, the
harassed squatter had hardly got home before he
had to hurry back by express train, and again de-
mand that S uith should stop this sort of thing.
But the climax came with a man named Ditch-
field, and instead of asking him not to go on like
that, Gray took proceedings in the Divorce Court,
and sent the ex barmaid home, She did not turn
up iu court, neither did the three musketeers who
had helped her into the difficulty, and the Judge
resolved that they were a bad lot.
* » •
Oddly enough none of the Melbourne
papers which pick up a precarious living by the
sale of sassiety slu9h have published two remark-
able incidents in the career of Lady Loch. Firstly,
her lad;ship is "a twin.” Secondly, she had
been married ten years before a tenant was found
for the nursery. Lady Loch’s twin sister is so like
each other, in form and feature, that it’s hard to
tell her from she when either isn’t there. So,
after all, the “first lady in Victoria” can’t be
quite so utterly unique as they would have us
believe.
* * *
A wages difficulty has cropped up at Too-
woomba (Q.) A man arrested for some offence
wants a week's wages from his employer, which
the latter refuses to pay on the ground that he
received no notice. The prisoner pleads that it
was impossible to give notice under the circum-
stances. The only way to avoid such differences
is to make the police give a week's notice to any
of their intention to run him in. This
sort of a law would become immensely popular.
In pursuance cfour usual policy of keep-
ing up with the proeession or dying near the front
ran*, we visited the Columbia Skating Rirk, at
Sydney Exhibition Budding, the other night—we
went became we were told everybody went We
selec ed a Thur day night because on that night
an extra shilling is charged for admission, with a
view, as ou’bi'ber’s apprentice inform*d us, of
keeping out tha lower classes If the lower
classes kept away on the night cf our visit we
would like to go some night when they are ihere.
The ass.amb age was quite mixed enough for our
unsophisticated taste. As you approach the
building you hear the rear of the skates mingled
with the faint gro ins of the band ; and a payment
of two shillings admits you to the scene of the
coi filet The sight staggers the beholder at first.
The large Exhibition Buildlrgis almost filled with
a vast throng whirling round and round with
ceaseless din ; the even motion of the skating
makes the ekatera look as if they were moved by
some outside force. And such a mixed crowd 1
Some to whom tho exclusive portals of Govern-
ment House are over open rushing along side by
side with pale, stunted ’Arry fresh from some
tobacco-factory, and one and all showing thq
most intense interest in the matter. It
makes one’s head spin, after a while, the
roar of the wheels and the ceaseless rush
of the figures, Whirr! whirr I Round they go ;
faces you know and faces you don’t know flit by
in endlcjs chain, while, suspended in the air like
Mahomtt’s coffin, the band wildly brays forth
that touching melody, “ 'Taint leavin’ old England
we cares about,” succeeded by a plaintive wail of
“ Wait till the clouds roll by.” As we stood
drinking ia the scene, a fair damsel came eliding
up at a furious pace, gave a lurch or two, and
then threw her lily-white arms emphatically
round our scraggy neck and held on tight. We
thought we had discovered a long lost second
oousiD, or else that the lady had been fascinated
by our wondrous personal beauty, but it turned
out that she was losing her balance and had clung
to us for support. “I beg pardon," she gasped,
and slithered away to a seat. This she reached
in safety, but when she turned to sit down, the
skateß shot from under her, depositing her in an
ugly heap on the floor. We moved away sadly to
the refreshment-room, but even there “the
villain still pursued us.” Parties used to skate in
there on refreshment bent, and miscalculating
their pace would come flying in, scattering chairs
and small tables in all directions, and bring up
with an awful smash against the counter, yelling
out, “ Two teas aida roll!” as they went to their
doom. This got monotonous, so we returned to
the festive throng just in time to see one of the
learners get the most awful “ crumpler ” ; then
he jumped up suddenly right in front of a
very good skater who was swinging aloDg behind
him, and down they both went again with
mutual wrath. Then a fat girl and her young
man who were skating hand in hand went to
howling inevitable destruction-over them. This
diverted us until the ringing of a small bell an-
nounced that the procession was to be formed,
consisting of ladies and gentlemen skating in
couples. After much trouble they were mar-
shalled arid glided away, goiDg through some very
pretty evolutions. Some gentlemen could not get
ladies and skated alone, but these were ruthlessly
expelled by the presiding official. “Where’s your
lady 1 ” we heard him say to one of those lonely
skaters. “ Fell down ” was the laconic and un-
truthful reply. “Go and pick her up again or
else knock off” wa3 the stern decision. Of those
present some skated beautifully and the great
majority got along easily and gracefully. A
heavy fall is a rare occurrence. Very often people
forget that they are on skates, and go to lean
against one of the posts, and away go their feet
and down they come. We understand that a rink
is to be formed at Double Bay, to which—alas !
only the elite will be admitted. It is thus that
grovelling social distinctions are allowed to un«
dermine the welfare of a Democratic community.
Governor Carington, accompanied by the
Primate, attended Maj or Dane’s lecture on Thurs-
day night last. We were unfortunately unable to
go, so we sent the office boy, and he has been
quite useless ever since Associating with a
Governor seems to have spoiled him, and he does
nothing now but read bloodthirsty romances full
of dukes.
* * *
We have a bone to pick with Mr. Thigefaka
Shiga, analyst on board the Japanese ship which
anchored in our Beautiful Harbour a year or so
back. Since his return to bosom of
his family, Mr. Thigefakahas been making action-
able remarks about some of our old mashes. He
said “ the only Japanese to be seen in Australia
were those at the Japanese Village, in Sydney.
That village was supplied with the lowest
creatures of the most uncivilised class of Japanese,
and showed customs which we were ashamed to
see.” That for Thigefaka! (at this juncture we
lay down the weary pen and snap our fingers in
disdain). Nothing shall persuade us t&at tha
syrens who dispensed expansive smiles and micro-
scopical cups of tea were "lowest creatures,’


The manager of the Village assured us that all his
ladies were duchesses in their own country, and
nearly related to the blessed Mikado himself. As
for their customs—-well, they were charming girls
When you met them out of an evening. Our
faith in the simple Village maidens is proof
against the innuendoes of a million Thigefakas.
The fact is that that miserable slanderer is suffer-
ing from wounded Vanity. One of The Bulletin
staff “ Cut him out ” with the fair Yum-Yum who
walked oh sword 1 ?. It was ourself that won her
virgin heart. There now !
# * *
She was an actress playing in another
colony, and her husband was comirg to join her
from over the sea. A certain scribe who wor-
shipped at her shiinewasin the interim writing
her heartburning letters gorged with love. One
afternoon this doubly-loved lady went out to take
the air, when her husband arrived from furrin
parts. He repaired to an hotel and was shown to
his wife's apartments, where he awaited her return
home. He saw several letters on a table, and one
in particular in a masculine fist. He opened it
and read, oh, such nice free and easy sentences,
the whole concluding with an offer of cohabitation
and advice to quit her hubby. Eventual tableaux.
* * *
“ Whittingdale ” and “ Leopold ” may be
very nice and aristocratic names, dcncherkncw,
and “ C’Malley,” begorra, is one that anybody
might be proud of, but wouldn't it be just as well
if the Sydney papers contented themselves by
saying that “Mr. Johnson” (or “a party by the
name of Johnson”), “Mr. Yates,” or “Mr. Clarke,”
presided at the Police Court, instead of taking up
valuable space and using type that can’t be easily
spaced in attaching handles to the names of those
beaks which aie supposed to lend them additional
importance? Wouldn't “seven days’ gaol,” or
“is. 10jd fine” be just as valid and effective
without the Whittingdale, Leopold or O’Malley,
be jahers ?
* * •
The Russian countess known as Madame
de Hazard must have very correctly appreciated
the newly-rich snobs of Melbourne and its sur-
roundings when she selected a commcnplace conn-
ter-jumper as the heir to her valuable hoard of art
treasures. The compliment was certainly about
the most artistic on record.
• • •
Down at Shepparton (Yic.) excitement is
pretty scarce these times. The river of daily life
flows sluggishly along between uninteresting
banks of wearisome monotony. Beyond an occa-
sional tea-fight or an unpremeditated assault on a
mother-in-law, the Shep-
partoDians, in a general
way, find few cntleta for
their pent-up ptspions.
but Fortune emiled upon
them last week. The
little son of a )cr al lady
licensed victualle? gotlost
in the bush. Intheexu*
beranceof its deliiium at
having something to do,
the whole township went
off its dot. Search parties
ecoured the teuntry
without avail. Bey could
not be found. There
had never been tuch a
critis within the n emory
of the oldest inha litant.
Minute after mimfi e sped
on, and still no tidings
of the wandering child.
Great Ivins ! wh t was
to be done for the best?
The Shepparton police
were equal to the e mer-
gency. They seit the
bellman round tov n to
call a public meeting to
consider the burning
question of that miffing
boy. Here the narrative
suddenly concludes. The
boy (we have reason to
believe) was found, and
Shepparton is gradually
cooling down to its normal
temperature.
* * «
The eighth annual
re union of the Glebe
Rowing Club took place
in the Glebe Town Hall
THE SINGEREST FORM OF FLATTERY.
on Thursday evening last, and passed off with
great eclat (the final “t” in this word is not
rounded; we mention this for the benefit of
readers in the bush).
* * *
The Red fern Socials came out particularly
strong at the local Town Hall on the 19th nit.
The walls were decorated with banners and
masses of evergreens, mingled with Chinese lan-
terns, fairy lamps, and flies, and the floor was
duly chalked. The programme consisted of six-
teen dances, which were all struggled through by
midnight.
• * *
The Balmain Rowing Club held its sixth
annual plain and fancy dress ball in the local
School of .Arts on the 19th August About 150
guests were present, and they kept it up till 1
o’clock, when the ladies regretfully put on their
big brothers’ boots over their own and went home.
The room was decorated with oars and sculls, and
other novel adornments.
* *
The Petersham Owls meet at the local
Town Hall, on September 1, when these giddy
fowls propose to make things sit up.
• • *
Governor and Lady Carington have had a
heavy week. On Monday they did Miss Amy
Sherwin's concert; on Wednesday the Governor
attended the meeting of the National Shipwreck
Relief Society; Thursday was the night for the
usual fortnightly reception; on Friday evening
they attended the Women’s Concert; and the
programme finished up with Tattersall’s meeting
on Saturday. Towards the end of the week we
believe his Excellency was only kept up by being
rubbed with white of egg, and he hadn’t even
time to get his hair cut.
• * *
Among the guests at Lady Carington’s re-
ception on Thursday were Mrs. Fairfax, wife of
Admiral Fairfax, Mrs. and Miss Salomons, Consul
Griffin, Major Dane, Mrs. Geo. Rignold, Lady and
Miss Manning, Mrs. M’Millan, Professor Parker,
Sir Alfred and Miss Stephen, Lieut.-Colonel and
Mrs. Airey, and many others.
* * *
Narandera (N.S.W.) woke up sufficiently
to hold a ball on August 18, and all the ladies put
on their pretty things for the occasion. Victuals,
which is a great institution, were there in profu-
sion. The chief feature in the dresses was the
complete absence of the hideous “ Jubilee red,”
cream colour and other civilised tints supplying
its place.
* * *
The first quarterly social in connection
with the Orange Debating Society was held in the
local Caledonian Hall on the 25th ult. The
Society in question rends the air most of the time
with discussions on the results that are likely to
ensue when dogs are allowed to sleep under the
bed, and kindred topics, but on this occasion the
members laid aside their forensic animosities, and
a great success ensued.
* * #
Rockhampton (Q.) rose to the occasion on
the 19th August, and forgot its misery in a plain
and fancy dress ball in the School of Arts Hall.
.About 150 guests were present, the majority
wearing the solemn togs of daily life. Seventeen
ladies, however, raised fancy costumes, and were
thus enabled, metaphorically speaking, to wipe
their feet on the other ladies. ‘'Pussy,” “Mis-
chief,” “Girofla,” and the usual batch of peasants
were on the job, also tha customary gipsy. A
j avenile fancy ball followed on Saturday, so that
Rockhampton has been having a blow-out of no
ordinary dimensions.
• * •
Judging from an invitation card about the
she of a babj’s back very much swelled which
has come to hand in this office, there is to be a
“ Demonstration Banquet to the Ministry and
Grenfell Railway Delegates” at Grenfell on 2nd
September. If we are there we do not expect to
come away with any coherent idea of the proceed-
ings, but there are 12 toasts on the list, and we
can never hold more than a quart and a half at a
time.
• * *
Some 6000 or 7000 people gathered to
witness the lacrosse tournament in the Sydney
Domain on Saturday. It was divided into five
heats and any amount of perspiration, and the
players seemed to enjoy it. There is a lot of
running about in this game, but it is not quite so
homicidal as football.
* * * •
Only three members of the S.A. Assembly
are bachelors.
* * *
The latest Melbourne story is of a semi-
religious character. It appears that one of the
local parsons has been “ had” for a marriage
license and ceremony by some long toney masher,
who desired to enter into the holy state of matri-
mony on the cheap. The masher lured his
reverend victim into procuring the license, got
hitched to a blushing bride, and then settled the
bill with a bogus cheque. It was a wicked,
wicked joke, and the poor old parson doesn’t j
think that any good, my friends, can come of
such a union. The verger is also of that opinion.
The masher gave him a present of £5, which was
included in the cheque.
* * *
A humorous pedlar invaded Auburn
(N.S.W.) the other day and sold every mother in
the township a packet of lollies which he care-
fully explained would entitle the possessor to
compete in a local baby-show and give permission
besides to attend a concert. Every mother’s baby
was carted to the local hall on the afternoon, but
the lolly-vendor failed to appear, and the women
with the biggest babies are now training them
how to kill hawkers.
* * *
According to stories current in Mel-
bourne, the history of the days of Sir Charles
Hotham is repeating itself. The police depart-
ment has supplied Governor Loch with an orderly,
and the practice in past times has naturally been
for this officer to eat at mid-day in the servants’
hall at Government House. But the trooper’s
lunch, d ce • qu'on dit, has been stopped and the
luckless constable has now to gallop to Richmond
Barracks (a distance of fully three miles) in all
weathers for his “ tucker." Tips are unknown at
Government House, and duty there is not han-
kered after by the foorce.
* * *
A little light on the English social system
flickered forth during the famous Cass tr al. Miss
Cass earned the munificent wage of ten shillings
per week and her board at the fashionable Regent-
street dressmaking establishment, where she was
forewoman, and where she slaved with the needle
until 8 p.m daily. The young woman, too,
thought herself fortunate to get such gorgeous
remuneration.
* * *
A brother of Lady Millais, wife of the
famous printer, Sir Everett Millais, was the suc-
cessful petitioner in a sensational divorce case in
Sydney last week. Lady Millais divorced her
firsthusband, the great erratic critie, Ruskin.
The Referee
Fine weather on Saturday next is now all
that is required to make the Sydney Bicycle Club
sports the biggest bicycling boom of the season.
Kuhnell, the champion of South Australia, who
last year in Melbourne beat Dwyer at his best, is
one of the visitors, and Shackleford, the brothers
Busst, A. S. Browne, and seven other good riders
from Victoria, will form the largest and best
quality team that has yet visited Sydney. C. R.
Wood, who has been rusticating at Katoomba,
promises to take a lot of beating on behalf of
N.S.W., and altogether the affair promises to re-
semble one of the monster meetings of a few years
back. The disqualification of Bennett and Dwyer
does not seem to have done any particular harm
to bicycling.
• * *
Gorman and Burgess “box to a finish ”
at Foley’s on Saturday night, proved a slash-
ing affair. The men went at it ding dong until
both were almost too exhausted to strike a blow,
when youth, weigh' - , and strength had to be
served, and Gorman was declared the winner in
13 rounds.
* * *
The Sydney Bicycle Club road race on
Saturday, over a nine-miles 200 yds. course, from
Waterloo tollbar to Randwick tollbar. via Botany
and Bunnerong roads, resulted in an easy win for
A. Graham, with minutes start. G. Pearson,
who finished third, with 30 seconds start, rode
well, and did the fastest time in the race, llmin.
20seo. A. Edward, the scratch man, came to
grief by running over the machine of a fallen man,
* * *
The Northerners will soon have hard work
to get an umpire to stand in their football
matches. Both Northumberland and Wallsend
attributed their defeats to the unfairness of the
umpire. The Sydney wicket-keeper who umpired
the Northumberland match is as fair as they
make ’em, and the coaly folks should take their
gruel without makiDg wry faces. The poorer a
team, the worse it takes a licking.
* * •
There’s no doubt about the genuineness of
Sail’s weights. At his benefit in Melbourne the
1701 b. bell slipped and fell right through the floor.
When Sali was in Sydney and performing on
Larry Foley’s stage, Larry's face was a picture
whilst the fat little I alian was starting every nail
in the floor with his heavy weights.
* * *
The promoters of the proposed eight-oar
amateur crew for England have a heavy task
before them, considering that the various colonies
find it hard work to get funds for the intercolonial
race; and, even allowing that the necessary funds
are raised, the difficulties in getting together a first-
class crew for such a trip appear almost insuper-
able. Should a crew be sent, it is to be hoped
Mr. George Seale will be in it, even as emergency.
Two birds could thus be killed with one stone by
giving Mr. Seale a show of securing for Australia
the English amateur boxing championship.
* * *
The entries for the A.J.C. Spring Steeple-
chase bear poor comparison with those received
for the event last year. In 1886 they numbered
! 25, 20 local and 5 from Melbourne, whilst this
j year but 17 could be persuaded to send their ani-
mals at the almost impossible jump—lo Sydney
and 7 Melbourne. That knowing old bird “ Pen-
dragon ” stood aghast when shown the Randwiok
fences in even their old state. It will be interest-
ing to note his remarks when he hears they have
been raised. One of the “ push" will wager any
part of a hundred that if the race is done in de-
cent time not more than two horses will finish.
John L. Sullivan gave an exhibition of
hitting power recently, in New York, on an ordin-
ary Rugby football. After using his left on" it for
a few blows he let loose his right and fairly split
the ball in half. He then smashed with successive
blows three iron rings which fastened the ball to
the rope.
* * *
Currie and Thorne, of Melbourne Bicycle
Club, have entered into a match for the best of
seven events: Three mile bicyle race, one mile
rowing, one mile running, one mile skating, box-
ing, fencing, and wrestling. At latest Thorne had
proved best with the gloves, whilst Currie made
things even with the sticks.
* * *
This story comes fresh from England. A
Sussex baronet celebrated that eternal Jubilee by
a cricket match in his private park. One of his
footmen stood umpire. When the baronet was
appealed against for “leg before’ the con-
scientious flunkey turned to his bos3 and whis-
pered, “ I’m afraid I must say not at home, Sir
George. ’ Pressed for something definite, Jeames
threw himself upon the mercy of the court, and
said “Hout! The yarn sets us wondering how
many weeks Carington might stick at the stumps,
provided umpires were selected from Sydney
sassiety.
# * •
Lieutenant Purves, of the Sydney Lan-
ceahs, was recently the guest of Carirgton’s old
regiment, “ The Blues.” The invitation was in
compliment to Lord Carington, who is Hon.
Colonel of the Lanceahs. We tremble to think
what impression Larry Foley, who is also a
Lanceah, would have on “The Blues” had he
been in the place of Purves.
* • *
The Governor of Tasmania, who is presi-
dent of tho Hobart Football Club, forgot to forj
ward the usual cheque. His Excellency is a Scotch
Irishman.
# * •
About twenty or thirty Melbourne sport-
ing men were badly sold at Mordialloo one Satur-
day morning recently. A prize-fight had been
arranged to come off between a local man and a
pug. newly arrived from the land of wooden hams,
but the Caulfield police had got wind of the affair,
and upon arriving at the convincing ground the
“fancy” were confronted by a dozen mounted
troopers. The fight didn’t come off, after all.
• * *
A well-known “ doggy ” bookmaker of
Melbourne is insolvent, and he gives as one of
the “causes” “inability to collect debts due to
him.” This is rather a roundabout way of simply
saying “Welshers.
Galbraith, the Geelong footballer, who
fractured his knee-cap at Maryborough (Vic.), last
week, has received an injury which will prevent
him from ever playing again.
» » #
The Rev. John Auld, speaking at Ashfield
a few nights ago, said that “ Christian principle
taught him that if his neighbour smote him upon
one cheek to turn to him the other ; but there is
a limit. He may Btrifee too hard ; then,” con-
tinued the pugnacious parson, “my blood would
boil, and I should reply.” Professor Jackson
might get a little job on by taking a trip to Ash-
field.
Fred. Wood, the bicyclist, intends to work
New Zealand before returning to the land which
gave him birth. By the way, no more has been
heard of that little affair in which Woods and
lovely woman were mixed up with an angry hus
band and a purse.
* * *
Professor Miller sails for America in
October. He hopes to meet Slogger Sullivan—in
private life.
«■ # #
Tommy Hales is retained permanently for
the matrimonial stakes ; he is now running in
double-harness. His wife hails from S.A., and is
a daughter to Mr. Blackler, of Fulham Park,
Adelaide. The marriage was solemnised in Mel-
bourne, and the bridesmaids wore the Hon. J.
White’s colours, there now. Tommy’s latest
engagement may be said to have been a steeple-
chase, which eventuated in a tie —that is, if you
don't mind.
» * *
The landlord of the Albion Hotel, Mel-
bourne, doesn’t dote upon Tasmanian footballers
to any marked extent. He boarded and lodged
them for a night or two, and then offered their
manager a receipted bill on condition that the
“ Tasmanian devils ” cleared out. Perhaps Van
Dieman's Land was the better name, after all.
* * *
An Age advertisement: “ Wanted, ener-
getic man as process-server.” Connor, the
wrestler, is the kind of man wanted for this billet.
There ought to be great scope in it for argument
of the Graeco-Roman sort —a fact of which the ad-
vertisers seem not altogether unaware.
* * *
At the Melbourne Agricultural Show, the
bay gelding Spondulix, winner of the high jump-
ing contest, cleared six feet and a quarter of an
inch, “ and could have done much higher."
* * *
We are sorry to hear that Professor
Miller’s father died last Saturday. The Profes-
sor's heart is as large as the rest of him, and the
old gentleman’s death hurt him more than a
dozen wrestling matches. Miller, senior, by the
way, who was almost as muscular as his son, was
at one time a noted' swordsman in France. He
was musically in din (id, and laboured under an
amiable delusion that he was “Australia’s only
basso.” He was a tutor by profession.
Running a newspaper does not appear to
be a money-making game in Maoriland. It is
Btated on good authority that not more than half-
a-dozen New Zealand newsgrinders earn more
than salt for their porridge out of their dailies and
weeklies. As an illustration of the uncertainty of
journalistic ventures in the “land of the Maori
and Moa” we may instance the case of Tom
Bracken, ex-M.P,, who recently “ filed his shovel ”
in Dunedin. Thirteen years ago, Tom started the
once popular Saturday Advertiser, and since
that time he has paid in newspaper “ calls ”
many and many a hundred pounds. It is
not to he wondered at that the depressed
times should have forced the versatile Thomas to
shut up shop for the time being, nor is it astonish-
ing that his creditors in meeting assembled should
have passed a resolution expressive of sympathy
with him in his financial troubles, coupled with a
recommendation for his immediate discharge.
Tom’s constituents of Dunedin Central do not ap-
pear to have their confidence in him shaken by
his failure, for no sooner did the popular journalist
receive his “ clean sheet ” from the assignee than
they requisitioned him to stand for his old seat, bub
Thomas declined the honour.


Centrally
SITUATED
AND
ACCESSIBLE
TO ALL THE LEAOIMC
BUSINESS
HOUSES
IN THE
CITY
DANIEU'S IMPERIAL HOTEL
fs
THE MOST COMFORTABLE
hotel
SOUTH
OFTHE
EQUATOR
K)
aw
SHiiuiiHi
///m
DANIELI
cX
IS
Ms
«aMW
THREE MINUTES
DRIVE
FROM THE
RAILWAY
STATION
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
WITH AIL THE
MERCANTILE
HOUSES
BANKS&c.
Private Suites with Luggage Room attached for the convenience of Ladies, Ladies’ Drawing-room, with a magnificent view of the Brisbane River and
One-Tree Hill. Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths, COMMERCIAL ROOM,
Gentlemen's Smoking, Reading, and Corresponding Room. All Letters and Telegrams applying for Apartments wl receive prompt attention. C. 11. IHMI 1.1 ,
BRIEF MENTION.
A new illustrated paper has been started
in West Australia called the ’Possum. It is hoped
it won’t go up a tree.
conference of navvies, held in Mel-
bourne lately, concluded without any fatalities.
Pass the olive-branch.
A Christchurch (N.Z.) butcher was found
dead in bed the other morning with £75 under his
pillow. This is the joy that kills.
The Printers’ Register, London, records
that a certain editor has just started his tenth
venture in the “ Northern Territory ” of N.S.W.
Abigail, N.S.W. Minister for Mines,
directs that the Clarendon pound shall in future
be known as the Eurongilly pound. Why not
call it The Bulletin twenty-five pound ?
More glory ! ‘ ‘ Mr. Alfred Bennett has
been awarded the second prize at the Victorian
National Agricultural Show for his Ayrshire bull.”
We have long admired Alfred’s bulls in the
Nooze.
A Melbourne parson is advocating the
boycott against the ChinamaD. There are several
Chinese parsons in the colonies. And the neatest
and most “ swagger’’-looking cleric in the Angli-
can fold of Sydney is a Chinaman. There, now !
The suburban correspondent of a Mel-
bourne paper, the otner day, in making out his
weekly account accidently dropped the “n” in
“ lines ” and sent into his office a bill for “ fiso
lies t” It got the initials “ J.M ,” and was duly
passed.
Legal joke. In Sydney District Court the
other day, Mr. Levy, of Kurts celebrity, was
arguing a legal point with a brother practitioner.
The dispute waxed hot, and Mr. Levy’s opponent
finally settled the matter by remarking : “ Well,
Levy, you might admit that for me out of
Kurtsey.” Whereupon Mr. Levy snorted a great
snort.
Bishop Barry -wants the Government to
make the people moral. It strikes us that this is
tha duty of the parsons. Suppose his lordship led
off with an experiment on the Ministry?
Mud J. Haynes intends to move in the
N.S.W. Assembly that all denominational schools
be compulsorily closed. His object, no doubt, is
to prevent any more “ denominational savages,’
of the sort he used to be, being let loose on the
country.
Premier Parkes has made another move
towards Protection. He now declares that the
N.S.W. farmers “should be dealt with not under
the pressure of any rigid lines of equity.” This
assertion has made the D.T. sit up and howl for
the stamping out of intersessional junketing, as if
the country champagne, and not the irresistible
advance of the Protectionist idea, was responsible
for the remark.
The Victorian Chief Justice has summoned
before him, on a charge of contempt of court, a
man who refused to stop hammering on his pre-
mises adjoining one of the law courts But for
the fact that the Victorian C. J is George Higin-
botham, to whom The Bulletin takes off its hat,
we might be tempted to remark that the sound of
an honest workman’s hammer jars on ears accus-
tomed to the tones of the man who lies for a living.
Out of 18 wealthy squatters forming the
directorate of the “ Wolseley Sheep-shearing
Machine Company, Limited,” no less than 15 are
Victorians. This arose from the fact that Mr.
Wolseley considered it better to float his patent
in Protectionist Victoria than in Freetrade
N.S.W. Will Mr. Pulsford kindly explain the
reason why ? Has the mother colony sunk so low
under Cobdenism that the N.S.W. inventor can’t
even float a new pair of shears on the local
market
Mr. John Noake, tobacconist, now hangs
out in those premises in Pitt-strcet, Sydney,
where Washington H. Soul’s name used to te
blown in the bottle, and he is fast making a pili
Out of the people who come in unde? protest for
evil-smelling physic, and then stay to smoke in
their joy at finding that the old physic-man has
removed. Consequently John's name is better
now on the back of a bill than it ever was before,
and the podgy German who dees these little
things for us would —to quote his own accent—
“ shump ” at it.
A NEW DISCOVERY.
Hoffman's Eucalyptal (mixture and injection) positively
cures all urinal and kidney complaints, inflammation,
gravel, lumbago (pains in the back), &c. Purely vegetable.
Contains do balsam (paiba), or sandal wood. All principal
druggists and storekeepers. Price, 2s. 6d. and 3s. 6d. Take
no substitute.*
The ingenuity with which the N.S.W.
Cabinet have got out of the billd alley am munition
difficulty is a proof of their incomparable sagacity.
Instead of paying for the stuff in the only defensi
ble manner, they have scooped loan funds for the
required amount, leaving the debt to be defrayed
by a generous posterity. Hereafter, when volun-
teers rifle-practice they will know that every pop
disposes of a penn'orth of loan. The remunera
tive nature of such an investment of loan money
is incalculable by anyone of less mighty genius
than Cobden Cocky Burns, Esq.
Theatre roxal.
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr, Sam. Lazar.
To night and every Evening until Further Notice,
at a quarter to eight precisely,
THE ROYAL DRAMATIC COMPANY
in the Great Drury Lane Military Spectacle,
HUMAN NATURE,
Prices as usual.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway's Hotel.
QRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon
Messrs. BROUGH and BOUCICAULT’S
COMPANY
ACHIEVED A BRILLIANT SUCCESS
in
BOUCICAULT’S CHEF D'CEUVRE, THE
COLLEEN BAWN.
Last Two Nights of
BROUGH and BOGCICAULT’S
NEW LONDON COMEDY AND
STAR DRAMATIC CO.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING, SEPTE WBER 1,
THE COLLEEN BAWN
THE COLLEEN BAWN
THE COLLEEN BAWN.
Dress Circle, 55.; Stalls, 35.; Upper Circle, 25.;
Gallery Is. W. J. WILSON, Manager.
E W
N
Under the
OPERA
HOUSE.
ent of Mr. B. N. Jones.
GRAND OPERA CONCERTS.
Miss AMY SHERWIN
in a series of Grand Operatic and Secular Concerts.
THE INITIAL CONCERT,
SATURDAY NEXT, September 3, 1887.
Particulars in future Advertisements.
Freetraders, protectionists,
PATRIOTS! Read:
THE PRESENT DEPRESSION IN TRADE,
Its Cause and Remedy,
by
C. 0. WALDOW.
Jast published, price 6d., all Booksellers.
MR. ROBERT KENNEDY
(the Scottish Vocalist)
will give his new Entertainments,
“A NICHT Wl’ THE JaBOBITES”
and
“A NICHT Wl’ BURNS,
for the first time in Sydney,
PROTESTANT HALL
MONDAY & TUESDAY, September 12 and 13.
THURSDAY & FRIDAY, September 15 and 16.
A Good Night's Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL,
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, if you miss Foley’s you
HAVE NOT SEEN THE CITY.
Monument
In Granite, Marble, and Freestone.
Iron Tomb Railing!.
Dsilgni and Eitimatei forwarded on reqnw
J. CUNNINGHAM,
*»A**T-B*B*M, WVHWAUD-aatTA**. Bydwbv
WE can recommend the Imperial Hair-Cut-
ting Saloon slb the best in Brisbane.
Tobacco and cigars of the best brands. Address :
Temple Building, George-street, six doors from
Queens-street. A. COOPER, Proprietor.
Belle Vue Hotel,
BRISBANE.
Opposite Parliament Houses, Botanical Gardens,
and Queensland Club.
FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL.
ACCOMMODATION FOR 90.
A Waiter Meets Every Steamer,
Letters and
prietor,
telegrams please address Pro-
8. M. COLLINS.
ofjSydney.
JCNOLAN CAVES. BLUE MOUNTAINS,U
316 GEORGE ST between Hunter ST*C.P.O.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, August 30 1887.
TENDBRS for PUBLIC WORKS and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are Invited for the following PL BLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-offlce in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten
ders are opened, and the name of the success!u,
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to whio v
Tenders
can be received
at this office
Construction, &c., Engine,
Pumps, and Boilers, Contract
3, Lismore Water Supply
Supply, &c., of Reticulation
Pipes, &c., Contract 4, Lis-
more Water Supply
Erection of Police Barracks,
Bourke
Erection of Fencing, &0., Post
and Telegraph Office, Berrima
Erection of Room, Courthouse,
Jerilderie
Erection of Bridge, Rocky Gully
road, Walcha to Port Mac-
quarie
Supply at Bullock Island of 6000
Railway Sleepers
Tuesday,
September 6,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Waiting Shed, &c ,
Unanderra, and Station Build-
ings, &c , Dapto
Supply of Coke for Newcastle-
Plattsburg Tramway
Additions, &0., Courthouse,
W arren
Additions, &c., Gaol, Yass
Construction of Verandah, &c.,
Post-office, Moruya
Construction of Water Closets,
&c., Courthouse, Gosford
Erection of Bridge over Wil-
liams River at Munni Crossing
(exclusive of supply of Iron-
work)
Painting, &c., Colonial Secre-
tary's Office
Tuesday,
September 13,
at 11 o'clock
Additions, &c., Lock-up, Wagga
Wagga
Construction of Tank, Court-
house, Cooma
Fencing, &c., Courthouse, Lis-
more
Erection of Stable, &c., Court-
house, Collector
Additions, &c., Courthouse,
Brewarrina
Erection of Quarters for Gaoler,
Wollongong
Tuesday,
September 20,
at 11 o’clock.
JOHN SUTHERLAND.
MASON BROTHEBS,
w
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent,-street,
Sydney.
Have Always la STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.'S
Cognao.
T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
m
ORIGINAL
P
%
m
.
OBTAINED A
FI|STCLASS AWABd
__ j* . .T A °
■ OR ' ' °
HiCHESt DECREE OF.MOTT
S—
m*
V v ,1
Ir i j ; « I! j*#s
ISTHE BEST INTHE WORLD!!
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUGH’S
REC£ IV ED THE INTER NAT lON A L
P R I Z E MEDAL
Manufactured byJamesChannon
Harbour S T Sydney
Sold by AH CrocersandStordurcpcrs
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
MACKAY.
u
NSURPASSKD accommodation
cial travellers, and families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
for commer-
Buggy meets every steamer.
I make comfort of travellers a special study.
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V, ROBINSON,
Proprietor.
df
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have roar Umbrella Frames re-
covered and your
Parasol* re-lined and made eqaa
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets
Parasols made to mr.toh oos
tosses Repairs nestle executed


fTIHE youth who bore the banners with the
-L strange device and the boy who stood on the
burning deck were both a trifle off. St. Jacobs
oil is an article of faith with thousands who never
put their names to testimonial, but if they were
asked would do so without hesitation.
It is simply the most wonderful remedy the
world has ever seen for the immediate relief and
cure of rheumatism, neuralgia, and all painful
diseases. Its remarkable action has mystified
doctors, delighted sufferers, and dispelled the
doubts of the most incredulous. Its virtues are
praised by thousands all over the land, who have
been rescued from years of suffering and torture
with every species of disease, and granted a new
lease of health and activity. When physicians
have certified to their inability to cure rheu-
matism, neuralgia, and other very painful dis-
orders by giving up their patients to the stubborn
claims of protracted disease and possible death it-
self, the St. Jacobs oil, by its unpretentious merit,
has gained in every instance yet greater fame
from its almost magical influence over these
diseases. This remedy has no uncertain or
miraculous history ; its decided power resides in a
peculiar volatile oil, carefully distilled from the
Pinus Sylvestris, and has been used and dis-
tributed for hundreds of years by the inhabitants
of the Black Forest, a mountainous and densely-
wooded region in Baden and Wurtemburg, Ger-
many. The introduction of the St. Jacobs oil into
Australia has been attended with the same dis-
tinguished results as have ever characterised its
employment in America and Europe; and its
adoption as the National remedy for rheumatism,
neuralgia, and all painful diseases is assured.
When it is considered that this wonderful pain-
banisher and health-restorer can be had at all drug
stores for such a small sum, it appears as a matter
of duty to every sufferer with rheumatism, neu-
ralgia, or kindred complaints to seek the relief
which St. Jacobs oil cannot fail to give. Try it
and you will be convinced. It can be obtained
from Messrs. Feldheim, Gotthelf, and Co., S. Hoff-
nurg and Co., John Frazer and Co., Mason Bros
and Co., D. Mitchell and Co., Myers and Solomon,
George Griffiths and Co., Australian Drug Com-
pany, Elliott Bros, and Co., limited, and retail
from all chemists and druggists.
Y M P A T H Y.
From the Entertainment Gazette and Echoes
of the Week of July 9 last we take the following
expression of brotherly sympathy by Mr. George
Augustus Sala for his friend Mr. Yates (Atlas) of
The World :
I fully sympathise with my friend Mr. Yates,
who tells his readers this week that, happening to
alight from his hanson on his way to the Guildhall
Ball, he got jammed in a crowd, from which he
with difficulty extricated himself, and when he
did reach Guildhall found, when he unbuttoned
his cape in the vestiare, that he had been robbed
of his watch. The horologe had cost, I learn from
another source, 40 guineas. This comes of being
haughty, Mr. Yates, and wearing chronometers
jewelled in many holes, and riding in hansom cabs
and such like. My own name is Old Artful, j
left my watch at home, and my overcoat to boot )
on the night of the ball; and the Commissioners
of City Police kindly allowed my humble four-
wheeler to stand in the old Jewry, hard by Guild-
hall, so that I had not the slightest difficulty in
getting there or in getting away to work, which
was not over until 2 in the morning. Oh, the
Jubilee! the Jubilee !
Mr. Yates goes on to say that for the futu re
the pickpockets shall have reason to say of him
Cantabit vacuus coram latrone viator-, and that
henceforward he will eschew expensive watches
and wear a Waterhury. Proud Bir! you Bhould
have taken to a Waterhury watch long ago.
I wore mine own (cost me ten and sixpence) at
first compulsorily. You see that I had a rather
handsome gold watch by Leroy, of the Palais
Royal—an eight hundred franc watch; but it is at
present in tho keeping of Uncle Richard, who is
passionately fond of articles of virtu, and politely
declines to part with my timekeeper untii a
ridiculous process called “ redemption” is gone
through. But ere long I learned to love my
Waterhury watch. It keeps such excellent time
and ticks so sympathetically.
Mem.: Waterhury, where these watches are
made, is, I infer, in Connecticut, U.S. The
only Waterhury that I persona ly know is in the
State of Vermont, seven miles from Montpelier,
and a few miles from the fashionable summer re-
sort, Stowe. There is some of the prettiest
mountain scenery in the world round about the
Vermont Waterhury.
W ho owns not now a Waterbury Watch
A cknowledges thereby that he an ass is.
T o passive be while he such prize may catch,
E vinces langour, which belief surpasses.
R ight well remembered is’t by him who wears one,
B y other watches fooled, he oftentimes was late ;
U nless, indeed, the other waj’t would be,
R equiring him to wait, and nothing else but wait.
Moral :
Y ou’U never suffer this if you’ve a Waterbury
mate.
The “ social purity ” side of the tobacco adver-
tising question consists principally in smoking the
pure, unadulterated tobaccos and cigarettes made
by Blackwell’s Durham Tobacco Company.
P The prize design for Parkes’ “ Great National
Bone Yard and Free Hash House for Titled
Visitors ” will be drawn with Dixon’s American
Graphite Pencils. All the leading architects in
the colonies use them.
Have you ever noticed the seraphic expression
and the wonderfully healthy condition of the
children who are fed on C. Gilbert’s Cornflour ?
All the adult members of a family can derive
equal benefits from Clausen’s New York Cham-
pagne Lager Beer. It has never had a competitor
worthy of the name.
A misguided Wesleyan minister at Rock-
hampton (Q.) is getting himself disliked by the
local alleged Christians. He says that the
“Escaped Nun’s” lectures will not promote
brotherly feeling among the churches. We here
giye his reverence a pinch for stale news.
The native trackers employed to run down
Hughes, the reman tic W. A. convict were pri-
soners themselves. During the bustle and excite-
ment of the capture, however, these individuals,
loth to return ti captivity, decamped into the
wilderness.
Melbourne Argus hasn’t got off this time.
Mopping up Madden and Purves didn’t avail, and
so they’ll have to “ part” £250 to Rocke, Tomp-
sitt, and Co,, the druggists. The plaintiffs en-
gaged the careful and clever Hood, perhaps as an
expert, his father having been a chemist in Eliza-
beth-street. The Argus said that under the
name of “sheepwash” certain stuff had been
consigned to R., T., and Co. which might send a
ship to the hereafter.
THE NEW ZEALAND SCHOOL BOYS
ARE BECOMING DANGEROVSLY
ADDICTED TO KISSING
(SUNDAY TIMES)
An interesting discovery was made the
other day by Mr. George Billson, of Chetwynd
(Vic.), while engaged in felling a tree on his farm.
Just underneath the outer bark he discovered the
name “ Mitchell" carved in the wood, followed
by a date which is unfortunately decipherable.
There is little room, however, for doubting that
the inscription was intended to mark one of Major
Mitchell’s camping places when he made his
memorable journey of exploration through Aus-
tralia Felix, in 1836.
The Melbourne Age calls the Pall Mall
Gazette, “ That terror of well-placed sinners.”
From the S.M. Herald :—“ Wanted, an
Office and 3or 4 flats, central. W. J. F.”
We don’t know of an office that’s to let,
But we can point him out four flats, you bet! I
The Midas mine at Sulky Gully, Dowling
Forest, (Vic.), where the monster nugget weigh-
ing 511 b. was found last week, has an interesting
history. In the early days of Victorian gold-min-
ing, Sulky Gully was one of the most profitable
fields for shallow-sinking in Australia, audit was
no uncommon thing for the wash-dirt to give
450 z. to the load. When the claims on Crown
lands had all been worked out it was proposed to
drive into the late W. J. T. Clarke’s Dowling
Forest estate, which lay to the eastward, by
force ; but finally it was arranged that an in-
terview should take place between the diggers
and the landowner. An impromptu platform
was frmed out of a barrel, and when “ Big
Clarke mounted the rostrum the head caved in
(not accidentally either). The old man was so
hurt both as to his feelings and his shins that he
would never renew the negotiations for permis-
sion to mine upon his property, though he was
offered £4OOO for a lease of the ground now occu-
pied by the Midas mine. When “Big Clarke"
died, and his son, Sir William, reigned in his
stead, a few speculators obtained a lease of the
ground from him, but it was with the greatest
difficulty that a few hundred pounds were sub-
scribed to start operations. Several very large
nuggets have already been found in ihe mine, the
value of the last being £2600.
How to Gain Flesh an» Strength.— Take after each
meal about a tablesooonful of “Scott’s Emulsion of
Pule Cod Liver Oil With Hypophosphites.” It is
almost as .palatable ts millt, and easily digested. The
rap’d ty with which del cate children and sickly people
suffering from weakness and wasting diseases improve and
thrive upon this diet, is truly marvellous. As a remedy for
Consumption, Throat Affections and Bronchitis, it is un-
equalled by any othtr preparat’on in the world. Use it and
try your weight. All chemists sail large and small bottles.*
£lO 000 MELBOURNE CUP £lO,OOO
At 20s. each.
Run, Nov.. Ist, 1887.
First Horse, £5,000; 2nd, £2,000; 3rd, £1 000; Starters,
£1,000; Non Starters, £1,000; to be divided amongst them.
£2.000 MELBOURNE CUP £2,000
First Horse, £l,OOO, 2nd £3OO, 3rd £2OO, to Starters, £250,
Non Starters £250, to be divided am-mgst them.
Address—‘ .Tattersall.’’
Care i f G. Adams,
Tattersall's Hotel,
Pitt-street, Sydney *
Balsam of Virginian Prunes a most effectual remedy
for the Coughs, Colds, Croup, Asthma, Influenza, Hoarseness
Bronchitis, Shortness of Breath, &c. Rigney, late Mitchell,
King-etree
The Pbooress of New South Wales —At present
tVre are 1,407 miies of railway in operation; there are
11 639 miles of ttl-g-aph wire; 425 State Schools, with 1,161
Teachers. These s'atistics, though of a miscellaneous
character, te’tify to *he growth and vigour of this youthful
colony. It is easy to understand amid so many wording
classes and growing child en, how valuable and useful a
medicine is which possesies the omperty of checking and cur
ing those diseasts peculiar to New South Wales itself or in-
cidental to life generally. This however is the characteristic
of Freeman s Original Chi rodyne and hag secured for it in
New South Waits a reputation of the highest character. No
other medicine has obtained a similar posiiion in any other
colony and no colonists have spoken in higher p.aise of the
virtue of Freeman’s Chlorojyne than the lesidents, the
manufacturers, the shepherds, and the miners of New
Zealand. Its value in the Nurserv and in Fema’e Com-
plaints can scareely bs tstimated.—Sold everywhere through-
out the Colonies. Insist upon having “Freeman’s” only.
Rtject substitutes as they aie woithless. Trade Mark an
Elephant.*
One of the best managed and cl t hotels in Sydney is
the Great Northern, comer Charlotte Place and George
street. Having been thoroughly renovated, Travellers will
find it the cosiest place in Sydney. The shilling luncheon
there is immense *
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF WINTER GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prices
THE fourth chapter, and end of our self-imposed
task. It has been a duty undertaken on
account of those who have so long encouraged us
with their support. It was last Saturday we com-
menced the essay, and we pledged our reputation
to continue it, chapter by chapter, until we had
thoroughly exhausted the subject. We thought
three chapters would have sufficed, but find it
takes four.
Last Saturday’s issue saw the first part of our
essay upon HOW AND WHERE TO FURNISH
THOROUGHLY, SAFELYand E OONOMICALLY;
and in that issue, as the result of serious study
and careful deliberation we gave our readers a
description'of the Carpet and Floorcloth floors upon
the sth storey of the Great Cantral Emporium,
Sydney.
We omitted giving the address in the first issue,
but do so now, viz,, LAWLER'S, 608 George-
street, Sydney. An old-established house, es-
tablished as long ago as 1860, and situate in the
centre of the city right between Liverpool and
Bathurst streets. A commanding and imposing
edifice, and stocked from floor to ceiling
Monday’s issue treated of the extraordinary
stock of bedsteads, wire-mattresses and bedding,
upon the floor of the Ith storey; and Wednesday’s
issue dealtexclusively with the Bedroom Furniture
upon the floors of the 3rd storey. And now we
have to treat of the Dining and Drawing room
furniture and Library and Office appointments
upon the floors of the 2nd storey.
This last chapter is the one that claims the at-
tention of our readers, and we will be as brief but
explanatory as possible. LAWLER S Suites differ
from most suites met with in Sydney houses, and
remind us on account of their solidity and fulness
of upholstery of the suites made before the age for
slop upholstery became general.
We have had our attention called to a magnifi-
cent solid walnut diningroom suite with misletoe
carvings and carved and moulded legs set with
best coppered wire springs, upholstered throughout
in curled horsehair, and covered in the best
Russian dressed real morocco, finished with
morocco binding and morocco-covered studs. The
suite was made for one of our well-known mer-
chant princes and was sold to him for £65. It
looked all out well worth 00 guineas, a figure one
of the furnishing salesmen declared he had re-
peatedly sold the suites at in London, Leeds and
Edinburgh. There is another Suite just being
completed in the factory, the couch and a few
chair.- of which we were shown, and we have no
hesitation in declai ing it to be the best upholstered
suite we have ever seen. No one with money
could resist it. It is a glorious suite, splendidly
finished and boldly conceived, and only £6O. It
would be cheap at £BO. We felt bound to admit
that it was stupid purchasing at auction sales
when LAWLER’S celebrated light oak or walnut
or real mahagony specialty—the Emporium
Leather Suite at £27 10s., could be had direct
from the factories In Union-lane. There are
Diningroom Suites a'.l made and upholstered upon
the premises in oak, walnut or Mahogany, and in
crimson or olive Utrecht velvets at £2l 10s. and
£ 7 10s. And there are mahogany and cedar
Diningroom Suites in the best English made hair-
cloth, or in Cockett’s maroon or green-colored
leather-cloth at £l2 .os., £ll 10s. and £l7. LAW-
LER’S set their face against turning out suites in
hair cloth at anything less than £l2 103., saying
they would only have to resort to common German-
made seating it they were to manufacture hair-
cloth suites at a penny less than £l2 10s.
Our readers ought all to bear in mind the im-
portant fact that they can select their Lames at
LAWLER’S and choose whatever covering they
think fit, and can call round at any time and see
the work in the upholsterer’s hands.
We would remind those who prefer the Austrian
Suites to upholstered Suites that they can have
one of those grand and luxurious Couches, the
Eugenie, at £3 19a., and capitally suited for an
after-dinner smoke or nap they are. Long and
broad —a perfect nest of spiral springs, the head as
well as the seat being so upholstered.
This Eugenie Couch of LAWLER’S, at £3 19s. is
a perfect marvel of value, and to show the esteem
in whloh it is held we have only to remark that
since LAWLER reduced the price from £5 ss. to
to £3 19s , the present low price—since he reduced
the Eugenies to £3 19s. he has sold 200 and odd of
them, or an average of five a week.
We have no intention of referring to Sideboards
or Dinner Waggons ; nor were we inclined to take
up much of our important Saturday’s space with
Extending and Telescopic Dining Tables, buthaving
been shown a few very special line 3 we think it
our duty to name them.
Frst there is the Hotel Sideboard, 6ft. long, with
glass back, bracket shelf, enclosed cupboards and
drawers, all solid cedar, price £8 103. Then there
is the Cottage Sideboard, with large glass back,
cellarette cupboard and drawer enclosed, brackets
for ornaments, &c., &c., £ll 103. and £l2 103
There are Cottage Sideboards at £3 15s. and £5
ss. And for mansions a range of best made Side-
boards in walnut, oak and mahogany at £l7 10s ,
£25, £27 103., £35. There are massive Sideboards
in pollard oak with all the latest improvements,
of bold design, faithfully built, with immense
bevelled glass back, cellarettes, &c., &c., at £45.
Bookcases and Cylinder Writing Desks in oak,
walnut and mahogany. Dinner Waggons, in the
same woods.
A grand stock of elegaht Pierglasses and Over-
mantels
But what surprised us most was the quantity
of Drawingroom Furniture, Suites, Cabinets,
Brackets, Tables, &c, turned out by LAWLER’S.
The turn-over of the establishment with its
different departments, its wonderful Boot and
Shoe floor, the Furniture, Carpets and Bedsteads,
the Ironmongery and Glass and China, the Drapery
and Clothing and Hats and Caps must be some-
thing extraordinary.
Upwards of 400 Drawingroom Suites turned
out in 12 months, and ranging in quality, style
and price from the simple but serviceable Repp
Suites at £lO 10s. to the prettiest and mos j
effective Occasional and Harlequin Suites in
Parisian tapestries or plushes at £45.
As in Diniagroom Suites, LAWLER'S will not
turn out anything under £l2 10s, so with
Drawingroom Suites, they will not touch any-
thing under £lO 10s. LAWLER’S hold that the
customer who pays more than £65 for the pro-
duction of the best of Morocco Dining-room Suites,
or above £5O for the loveliest and most charming
of delighful special things in Drawingroom Suites
deserves to be declared a “Tittlebat Titmouse”
and fit prey for high-toned but unprincipled
furnishing ‘ Oily Gammons.” And we think so,
too.
Time and space—that is newspaper space—i
pretty much like time and tide, will wait for
none; so that, although we would like to refer
to Cabinets. Whatnots, Music Canterburys and
a thousand other articles, we are compelled to end
our essay by repeating at its close the words with
which we commenced—viz., that the place at
which to furnish safely, surely, thoroughly,
economically and well is
LAWLER’S,
608 GEORGE-STREET SYDNEY.


674
GEORGE ST, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
Is this Only Address of the
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION,
IMPORTING RIRECT,
and Selling at LONDON PRICES,
In fact it is the Cheapest place for buying all kinds
of Musical Instruments and every description of
Fittings, and purchasers will do well before buying
to compare our prices with others.
No connection with any other firm.
Sole Agents in Australia
FOB
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6,
5/- and 5/6 a set.
Single ones in proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d„ and Is. each,
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d, Is., and Is. 3d. each.
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Guitar, Cello, Yiola, Double Bass, Harp,
Zithar, &c., Sc.
iui hr
O
&CCORDEONS, at 7/6, 10/6. 12/6. 15/-, 17/6, 21/-
2 51; 30/-, 40/-, to £6. _
peolality : Miniature Accordeon, double bellows,
strong tone, 21/-
„ Ditto, oak wood, patent steel notes,
42/-
10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality: Tyrolese Violin, with case, bow, and
instruction book, 35/-.
„ Italian Violin, with case (lock and key)
Bow, Tutor, and extra set of
strings, £2 10s.
4/8, 5/6, 7/8, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-,
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Speciality : Steel noted Rosewood Concertina
in box with key ... 35/'
Splendid Organ-toned Concertina,
in box with key 21/
, Tit, 10/-, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-,
up to £l2 12s.
Speciality: Walter Howard Model Nickel Banjo,
£3 3s.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10s.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality i 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case,
for £2 10s.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT.
Orders promptly attended to, and all instru-
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
the oolonies.
Enquiries attended to by return of post,
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
674 GEORGE STREET,
SXDNOT,
m
&
3,
JL
MAGIC LANTERNS!
VTTTE keep a large assortment of above, and have the following sets of Slides, complete with
Vt Lectures to each set:
Soudan War, Jane Conquest, Paris, Highlands of Scotland, Lowlands of Scotland, River
rhames Districts, English Lakes, Ireland, English Cathedrals, Pied Piper, Isle of W’ght, Pompeii,
Rome, China, Robinson Crusoe, Dick Whittington, Holy Land.
Also, a large variety of Comic Slides, in all prices, suitable for Children’s Entertainments.
LICHTNER AND CO..
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK WAREHOUSE.
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
Giticura
Eczema on Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
for everv form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
V/
Berofula on Neck*
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles,, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin anc
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy
sieians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and goi
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies.
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVER , the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are tjie only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pare by the Analytical Chemists of thB State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
.ii throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Az hi. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$l. > j Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing -i’cvp, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
cci
Prepared bt the
Potter Hrug & Chemical Co., Boston, TT.S.A.
THE GREAT BLOOD PURIFIER
BRISTOL'S SARSAPARILLA
la the Safest and best Purifier of the Blood and Humora. It la Infallible In its power
to cleanse the Human body, and where it is used according to directions, there can be no
unclean Eruptions, no Pimples, no Blotches, no Boils, but instead thereof a Clear Smooth
Soft Skin. The fact is of the first importance to Ladies who take pleasure in A FINE
COMPLEXION. No cosmetic, no wash or lotion will so surely give you a beautiful skm
as will the use of
BRISTOL’S SARSAPARILLA,
and to those who are already afflicted with any skin disease, we say In all good faith try
this great medicine, and, our word for it, you will obtain all we here promise.
Full directions how to take this most valuable medioine will be found on the label of
each bottle.
Caution. —As there are in this market numerous Inferior so-called Sarsaparillas’ the
Publio who desire this great Blood Purifier should be careful to ask for Bristol’s.
CAN BE OBTAINED FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS
Prince of Wales Hotel,
MACKAY (QUEENSLAND).
FIRST-CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and families, private sitting
rooms without extra charge.
Billiard Room, plunge and shower Baths, large
Sample Rooms.
MARTIN GIBSON,
Proprietor.
E V !hou£d Y usk } PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
PLOUE!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
Nbw Process Machinery,
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL
881 GEO«eE-BT*an. Sr oust
B BADis
X,
iNEWTQN, ft LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and C'CONNELL STREETS
sd
£35
PIANOFORTE,
guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, fall Compass
Celeste Pedal, bril ant
bone, In handsome oase.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS. ‘
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Cen-
nell-street.
m
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s 6d.
Bradley, Newton, & Lamb.
BKNTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment, just opened, many quite new
designs.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &o. Bradley, New*
ton, and Lamb.
Full suites for dining room.— side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
WALNUT TELESCOPE DINING TABLES,
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
fs
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS
In
GREAT VARIETY,
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB,
Spring & O’Connell sta.
WALL CABINETS for
VERY ELEGANT,
and Lamb.
Choice China, &o.
Bradley, Newton
"VT OVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
O’ Connell-street.
WALL-MIRRORS and BRACKETS, novelties
in Plush and Velvets, and in all Woods,
from ss. 6d. each.
Elegant Venetian mirrors, richly
enamelled, in colours. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
‘
□□
Drawing room cabi
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Fusnitcm Wahzhousbmih,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets,
Drawing-room furniture.—The latest
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGaNY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection ia
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Manufacturers, Spring and O’Connell streets.
< -,i Vi
m
OVERMANTEL ,/w^QRS. —Handsome,
fashionable designs ~d gold, with
side shelves; also, in oak i wood, at
all prices. BRADLEY, NEWTtA V.d LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring a*. ' O’Gonnell
streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order In
any material.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful, a specialty, Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
df
Bedsteads, &ii sisei
Niokel-platod and Black
and Braaa. Groat variety,
Bedding,—All descriptions at
lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and*
LAMB,
Importers,
O'Connell and Spring Street!.
sdf
SPRING MATTRASSHB
Woven Wire, belt
make ] also, Spiral Sprint •
Price, from He, eaob,
BKADLBYJ N *WTON Mtd LAMP,


“Melville’s Uniform“ -“The Bulletin” Version.
“But in his old age, after making these promiaes, what did Mr. Dibbs do? He took the shilling of Becr titting-Sergeant Luscom[?]e, and donned the uniform of Ninian M.lvill e. -Pares at Glen Innes.


~ mxo'ZHissjLmr xmoj&L, jmrmrm Mr 00.,
H E&OMria&OM&mMS,
IMA €THIKEBT MIEOHiIJT^
// M* GEORG# STREET, SYDNEY.
o
o
<5
s
IRONMONGERS 1
o 512, x
<«v *- <,,
Ol
•••
%
>.v.
m
.
m; .ft •
■ L ./•. j'#.
SPECIALITIES i
Davis' Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, llho Carbon Light
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
BAS COOKING STOVES »—LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S
BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES, fctl., Jteo t
m
i
FOWIER
- THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST.
TEA-CAKES, FASTiIT, &c.,
ARE
WHOLESOME, AND DIGESTIBLE,
WHEN MADE WITH
ins’ Australian least Powder.
IYOR THE ;TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THE SEA.
BSWARE of WORTHLESS IMITATIONS. *^|
TINS AT od. TIB HALF POUND.
sdf
jNEWEST INVENTION—GREATEST NOVELTY.
Y*N
PATENT DIAGONAL SIAM CORSET,
Patented in England and on the Continent-
Will not Split in the Seams nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model. Perfect Comfort. Guaranteed Wear.
The Queen says:—“ These Corsets are a new departure. ' The material is cut on the croes,
and the component parts being also arranged diagonally, the seams have no strain. They
are admirably modelled, exquisitely neat and Btrong, and the workmanship all that could
be desired.”
Geld Medal, New Zealand Exhibition, 1888
Cold Medal, Highest Award
for Corsets, London Internationa!, Exhi-
bition, 1884.
latest Award! 1! Cold Medal Interna*
ttonal Exhibition, Edinburgh, 1886.
CAIJTION.— -Beware of worthless imi-
tations. Every genuine Y & N Coraet is
stamped “Y & N PATENT DIAGONAL
SEAM CORSET No. 116,” in oval.
cP^^ao
AND LADIES' OUTFITTERS IN THE UNITED KINGDOM AND COLONIES. *
fcJi RING HATTE *
r NG HATTER
si? street
IMP
*O»Tt. WE - Y
"‘•SrSS^
a .,„'
iiAtiatJANK.
' 1,0,1 OF REMOVAL.
& 0 "«s I^™ 0VAI "
K tn P x T rter and General Agent,
fch> No - 6 BRIDGK.;STRBKT,
s, llail< ile our new lines
Boots ' *»• **•
® n application. Address
1 a Bridge-st., Sydney.
High-class Dentistry;,
Reb’srm Prices.
ARTIFICIALTEETHI
PLETES EJ
■M-.
■ ' A
e—-J
MARSHALL BRO:
DENTISTS
.
|B3 ELI Z A BETH ST
Teeth painlessly extracted tinder nitrons oxide
gas, dally at 11.
ALAN B. BRIGHT,
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND,
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT-STREET, and 538 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve fund ... , M 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commer
cial and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N, F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
ZZZISEZZZ2E
& C°
<3 HUNTER STREET,SYDNEY
SHIRT MAKEftS.'
*
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE,
BEECHAM’S PILLS
<0
7T
PATENT
B
in
P ILLS
ft
&
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box foi; biliou >
and nervous disorder;-,
such as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
Chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,d isturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &c. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
done it in. thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
they Will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEECHAJd’S
PILLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the system. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired and all
dißorders of the liver, they act like “MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
ot health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society ; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffl-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression cif the Chest, "Wheezing, &c„ these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Goughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Cheat. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the pa tient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Bexcham’*
Cough Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be
removed.
Caution.—The public are requested to notice that
the words “ Beicham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St, Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d.
each. —Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Commercial Hotel, Gympie, Queensland.
i . %7ir*!S&
HE above Is one of the oldest Family and
Squatting Hotels in the oolony. Price*
reasonable. Sample Boom.
Superior accommodation. Hot and Cold Baths.
Mrs. W. COMPIGNK, Proprietress.
r ATKINSON’S >
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses aU others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Tsstr Gold Medslb-
PARIS,IB7B; CALCUTTA, 1381,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson’s Newest Perfumes
FAGRJEA & CYMBIDITOt
are of rare and peculiar fragrance, andbefcag
registered can be obtained only of th«
Inventors or their Agents.
ATKINSON’S QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the growth and
Improving the appearance or the hair,
guaranteed perfectly harmless
ATKXNSOWS FLORIDA "WATER
an exceptionally fine perfume for tmOumd-
fcerchief, distilled from the choicest exotics.
Of alt lirtUen , and of the Manufacturert —
i. & E. ATKINSON,
If, Ot-D Bond Street, London.
kTrade Marie—“ White Rose” on “ Golden ,
feL Lyre.” "A
;iv
DIREC T IMPORTING CO.
L I
472 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Central Markets;
and at
705 GEOROE STREET,
Opposite Anthony Hordern's, Raymarket.
Violins,
7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15-, 20/-, 25/-, with Bow.
Violins, in eases, 30/-, 35/-, 50/,
Violins, in cases (superior), 70/- to £5, including
Tutor, Resin, Strings, &c.
Speciality:
, Old Violin 3, £B, £lO, £l2, £l7, £2O, £25, £3O.
Concertinas,
1/6, 5/6, 7/6 8/6 to £25/-.
20-key Anglo-German, by Lachenal. £1 17s. 6d. ,
20-key Anglo-German, by Lachenal, steel notes
best make, £4 ss.
22-key Anglo-German, by Lachenal, steel notes
best make, £4 10s,
in great variety, 7/6, to 70/- each.
Special Line— Steel note, with wood case,
£1 17s. 6d.
Cornets,
50/-, 70/-, 84/-. £5 15s„ £lO 10s., to £l6 16s,
Flutes,
8-key Concert, 40/-; Others. 1/6 to 26/- each.
6-key Piccolo, 16/- to 35/-,
Banjoes, Guitars, &c., in great variety,
PIANOS and ORGANS.
P.O. Orders will be promptly attended to.
sd
fsd
p
5
RIDGES
FOOD
)B INFANTS and INVALIDS
a» an enormous. sal® »n England,
iS 1 gnoow be Ing introduced Into the
use It.
ZIS nOY'A L. FOpD MttXS^
WJ O H N S O N
• COOPER, SURVEYOR,
and
LICENSED QAUGUR,
II PHILLIP STREET, and ab CLEVELAND
STREET. SYDNEY.
Wine Casks, Beef Tieroes and Keen, Talow
Casks, new and seoond»handj also, Wins and
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prices.
«AVUIN« U ALL ITS
m MML PEEIOT EEM UID AID II7ES7MEU SOUETf, -
SCO PITT STREET.
deposits received at best Current Hates, 6 per cent, being allowed for moneys at Call.
ess of this Society has increased fourfold in tv ?< irs. Shareholders reoeive 14 per cent, per annum dividend,
JAMES A. TODD. Manaobui


3v*-??!*
ROYAL IK& t
c
POWDER
Absolutely Pure.
For Quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without tha aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
the Royal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists,
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government, Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Baking
Powdbb Co., 106 Wall-street, New York U.S.A.
JR. K. XjUSkJEITBLXJXf*
IMPORTER,
Family Wine and Spirit Merchant.
PICNIC and WEDDING PARTIES supplied with the Choicesb Brands of WINES, SPIRITS,
and BEERS at the most Reasonable Prices, ALL RETURNS BEING ALLOWED FOR.
’Notwithstanding the Heavy Customs Imposts, P. R, L, still sells the Best Glass of RUM
BRANDY, or WHISKY IN THE CITY FOR THREEPENCE" JS -38|
The SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT is stocked with* all the Leading Brands of WINES.
SPIRITS, &0., whieh are sold by the SINGLE BOTTLE AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL,
778 & 780 GEORGE! STREET, SOUTH,
sxditex.
WALLACH BROS.’
35TEIW ,
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
Am
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION,
WALLACH BROTHERS.
- OBNA^
SHKET, and £
WINDOW J 4
White Lead, Oils, Colours, e ce>> &'*,<«
Paperhanglngs, Dadoes.
Mouldings, Backboards,
Overmantels, Silvering.
Tas 1 ?
SPECIAL NOTlC* r Th,^
»he above goods at a * a o ver
prices, being the stock taken
dartbwlckr _
naulrie win have promP^^
—
SCHOOL OF ARTS foj ft
occupied this Hall, %
and Leitch, Thornton
Maur, and Grattan '' !*#
MacMahon’e Dramatic 9^
concluded a brlliapt a tro BOPjup
Company played in theTJ gSV r#&so
ago, and Mr. 311ac 7; arrang ß ® e f7iss l
highly pleased with the at • 1
Managers are requested aB j D ter^
before opening to ®® c fho
Terms on application ' |
rai£AT^Bf A .
r pHE above Is IM[
X Rockhampton jor" W
sther Entertainments, .
my term upon appli^^g^ftlJtf
THOa
M AnHiNBBY, A L rf *»«- #
B, D
MINING AND
charters tower 3 *
FRYS
ASK TOUR QROOER FOR
ALTED
J. S. FRY Sc SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
bo3*B
THAN A PINT OP THS BBBT ALK OB
PoB***
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Fig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, dws.
Baan and 801 l Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Oopporsrolthlng, Blaeksmithlng, Plumbing,
Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH,” “VALVE," and “PAN" OLOSKTS, “VACUUM" WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, SCO.
Agents for Verity Bna, Patent Air Propellers, Kduut Pan Cewts, Gas Pirss, Heaters,
Wanness, Ac,
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND 9 MAOQUARH-PLACE,
SYDNEY.
FUIX PAKTIOTTUkSa AND PRIGS 0N APPLICATION,
Custom House Hotel,
BUNDABERG.
First-dasa Accommodation for Squatters, Com-
mercial Travellers, and others.
MT Private Suitrs for Families. -*»
Plunge and Shower Bath. Billiards,
Baggy meets every steamer.
HARRY McCANN, Proprietor.
NORTHUMBERLAND HOTEL, Gympie.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
WINES AND SPIRITS OF THE CHOICEST
BRANDS.
J. F. E. STEWART,
O. H. S
Manufiwrt» rer ®.
HATS^
302 GK@ b< * d
8 Doors Soot* °*J
PAIiAC®
TOWNSVfI*^JU
J. CRAMP, PrOPRIB^JI*
"gftflJ o J
Conducted «“*%>»• 1
great Melbourne
large Biiliard Boon#*
Prices as foUeVvS
THIS SPACE RESERVED FOR E. ROWLANDS.
::
1 O.
jPEUi
X J it**}
white and sou;.
walte and sou: ■
fully fragrant iu <ith t
and using daily
rJiO^tCxA
trom utany, *t irec.l
aftttoa of th
ca&fceßfc Sl;taittsdfcy &SrdLug too*si
«D
13>
or Pe«*l Dentifrice, a 'white powder composed of-the most i
the i tfliv.h Ud rJl^™! I ' tt:d ? rae fro P V* 7 01 deleterious i
©iSSSSSSSa:#
pastes eaa possibly be aa efficacious for DOliaSlne theteeth “either washes or
gritty toofjh powder: such EOV»a^Dh”^^O’^o\aa d Jwaya^otS C * m ™ ftnd
ia now sold in * golden colour for
No otiier Odonto is genuine.
ftQWLAKOS' MACASSAR OIL
fair and golden-haired people and children.
JSSW|A|SS* XALYDOR bOMitilifs the com.
oofcc;;, *, . tae akin soft, smooth and delicate. Asl
' ' - 1 -O'men, London , and avoid spurious and uuiauuuj,
Wholesale and Ketail Agents—ElihJtt Bkos., and E. Pbosskb & 00., Sydney,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Ferfepti Parity Guaranteed.
fsd
PRESCRIPTIONS are to
be found in the “J46HT AND
LIFE," for the speedy cure of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &o. A odpy of this
book will be sent free, sealed. Address-^
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
mrr®
T. WILLIAMS & CO„
IMPOSTERS OB'
British & Foreign Boots & Bmm ;
Alio Manufacturer! of
Thk Finest Quality or Goods in tbx above Links;,
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
fsdfsdfsdfsdfsdfsd
ci
Qljl
8
iAk
ROJ^oWtu/AmSr
M ■ W I S, H 1
flA'fcs d 1% Detective-' fowp),
".■."iTOtNn Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
». BOYA?. ARCADK, SYDNEY,
t; lisssrader# ana wife deserter* traced, and all kind* of
, 'Mestial kiquirfe* Instituted. Evidence obtained in
ffivaroe, Übel, fraud, and Incendiary eases, for the legal pro-
vision and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
g*rri*ge, or death, obtained in any part of the world
a? *at* and debts collected. From R. M. R.’g long experience
fe Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
jsWf ueskmd, and established agencies in ail parts of the
St*#*; 1* to * position to oonduct all inquiries with caution
»«d strictest oecresy, aad_ to faithfully and
v- 9 s&tend to ail feuafoa** entrusted to h ware
The science of life,
By W. Knox Parker, M.D.
A Boob for young and old men, 200 pages*
bound in cloth, and contains over 100 prescrip
tions. Price, post paid, 3s, 6d, Descriptive
sample free. Those suffering from Nervous ex-
haustion aud Diseases should send at onoe for this
valuable work. Address : Doctor W. K.
Parker, Post Office Chambers, corner Bourke and
Elizabeth Streets, Melbourne, Vic,
a
(Next Royal Standard Theatre.)
Best kinds of Tobacco, Cigars and Pipes.
R. CLIFFORD,
CASTLKRSAGH STREET.
M
Guinne3S **.
FIRS?
■
'
BAsti
BOjSfK^S^
”"2M|
w %oS^|n^
yr^.^
,i
• J
::;'4r
***&?■,
<£<
«*£
