

The Bulletin
VoL 7-No. 363
SATURDAY, JANUARY 15, 1887.
Price., Od.
The “Coming" Man.
J. P. ABBOTT (loq): “I NEVER DID LIKE FIGHT—I THINK ILL CLEAR.


THE BULLETIN.
rCBUHOED MCI A WEEK,
At 11 PiTMTuir, Stditet, N.B.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable la Adranoe)
£>er annum - - - - Oe. Od.
Half-yearly - - - - 0 128. Od.
Quarterly - - - - 0 Oe. Od
All money orders, cheques, and regletered letter*
•payable to
J. M. HARD INC,
to Whom all orders for the paper, adrertlsenionU,
and remittances should be addreeeod.
NOTICE.
Bt Mndlnc dlract loTns Bcujtix °(1<» twsoty ihimy
'ZZ’J? a r Aonrillu colour- jou can
hare Tu BuLL*TI* ported rcfularlr to roc rrwj weak f 0»
This offer Is art open io redden »* of Bydney. to IhaHtto
: HIGH WATER MARK.
The Circulation of "The Bulletin”
Christmas Number is the largeet ever
reached by, an Australian Newspaper.
• Hiahty‘two Thousand Pive Hundred
and Sixty (82,600) copies having been
printed, and the entire edition sold.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, JANUARY IS, [?].
Some Fallacies of [?]
E.rk«t if you
rotectionists,
ipounded of
>t fully cm-
intentions do
necessary to
bich conclu-
-9 conclusions
ay, and by
sumptions of
ade the most
laws. It is,
hat distance
bit the trans-
cauals inter-
reducing the
commodities
•t of the pri-
ural law that
ind and tide.
Here again man has abrogated the natural
laws governing matter : he builds a steamer,
fills it with perhaps 4,000 tons of goods and
transports them across 12,000 miles of ocean
for less than cartage for 40 miles or railroad
carriage for 150 mil os would cost By this
triumph of mind over matter London is
brought nearer to Sydney as far as cost of
carriago is concerned than are .Bathurst or
Goulbum, although those latter cities are
connected with Sydney by rail. It is idlo
then to assume as Freetraders do .that Pro-
tection is a defiance of natural laws. These
laws have already by man’s ingenuity been
entirely abrogated. Protection merely seeks
to prevent injury incident upon human in-
terference with their working. If the arti-
ficial advantages, and they are great advan-
tages, arising from tho uso of steam, were
given qp, and carriage from London cost £4O
per ton instead of as many shillings as at
present, the demand for protection of
colonial industries would cease utterly.
Labour at the antipodes then haring the
natural protection of distance would not re-
quire the artificial Protection by Customs
duties now necessary as a means of coun-
teracting evils resulting from an entirely
artificial state of affairs. Freotrade does
ments of Divine laws. Henry Georoe, for
instance, condemns the Protective theory
qecausu it is “ inconsistent with the sim-
plicity and harmony which wo everywhere
discover in natural law," forgetting that this
“simplicity and harmony’ has been to-
strainod and complicated in every sectioh,
exfcept, i>erhape, with regard to hatural laws
producing earthquakes which have not yet
bebn altered by huuma sSill. Man has an-
nihilated distance; hai in many operations
dbolished time find governs the lightning ;
wHat A farce, then, to condemn Protection
Sj inconsistent with tho “simplicity and
harmony of natural law !" It is not Divine
laws but human perversions theroof that
Protection is efficacious in restraining.
It is important to notice a furthor abroga-
tion of natural law in the production of com-
modities by the varying conditions of the
position of labourers in variouB countries.
No ono will contend that less expenditure of
labour is required to produce doth from
wool in England than in Now South Wales :
nor will anyone vonturo to assort that if
similar methods are employed wood can be
converted into a table with less labour by
Chinese in Hong Hong than if made by Aus-
tralians in Sydney; the fact is notorious that
English doth and Chinese furniture can be
imported and exchanged for a lower price
than a colonial producer would require as the
equivalent of his labour. In theso cases
natural law provides that a certain amount
of skill and exertion applied in a particular
way shall always produce a certain result.
Human agency restrains this universal law
by thw introduction .of machinery and perfec-
tion of methods, but presuming that both
cloth and tables are each producod under
identical oonditions, the lower price of tho
foreign goods shows that the universal law
has been practically counteracted by lesser
remuneration of labour abroad. The samo
result is in each caso obtained, but the lower
remuneration accepted by the English
weaver or Chinese carpenter pervorta the
ultimate effect of this natural law. If labour,
all tho world over, were equally remunerated
Freetrade would be an intelligible creed, but
-so long as labour in Australia is worth twice
as much as in England, and twenty times as
muoh as in China, so long will the import of
foreign goods curtail theindustry of tho Home
labourer, and impedo the prosperity of tho
community
Not leas false is the Freetraders’ assump-
tion that the profit of tho individual is al-
ways a gain to the community. Hknkt
George exhibits his complete subjection to
this error throughout his recent work and
especially in one special chapter. Thorein ho
alludes to Robinson Crusoe on his desert
island, and shows that restriction of imports
would not benefit him, and asserts that his
reductio ad absurdttm of the protective thoory
is not a whit more absurd in the case of one
man living on an islaad than when addressed
to a community living on a continent.”
But in truth the assumed analogy is entirely
wanting. Suppose in the case of Robinson
Crusoe he had been accustomed to pay his
man Friday for making his goat-skin
clothes and then a hen opp art unity offered had
imported these, leaving Friday without any
markot for his labour ! In such a case,
though Crusoe might benefit, Friday would
certainly bo poorer, and tho aggregate wealth
of the pair would be less, for Friday, in-
stead of .being, a productive workor, would
have degenerated into an unproductive con-
sumer. Crusoe’s foreign trade would have
destroyed his man’s industry. In large com-
munities, in very many instances, tho profit
of one man who employs his capital and
energy in importing foreign goods may
entail a far greater loss on others than he
himself gains. Suppose that in a com-
.munity A is an importer; then lot B repre-
sent a number of bootmakers, and C the
mass of other producers who are neither im-
porters nor bootmakers. Up to a certain
poriod theso bootmakers may liave been
fully and profitably employed, earning money
which enabled them to buy the produco of
all other producers ; but A, seeing that by
importing German boots ho can undersell
the boots made by B, gets out a shipment
which he sells to C, and B workmen are -
thrown out of employment, How, then,
does thu caso stand ? A lias made money as
C~t on the shipment; 0 have saved money
use they havo paid less to A than they
would havo paid to B. But B workers have
luit, their employment, and are therefore
able to buy less from C than they would have
done if the market for their labour had been
maintained. In this case the community
can hardly be said to have gained by the
profit A has mado. His profit has been
made at tho cost of the wnolo community
who have lost far more than he has acquired.
In opposition to the above illustration it
will be argued by Freetraders that the coun-
try has gained because so much wealth of
boots has been introduced into the country.
This brings us to-a third Freetrade fallacy—
viz., that “Exports pay Imports.” In sup-
port of this fallacy Mr. George writes
“ Exports and imports, so far as the/ are in-
duced by trade,\aro correlative. Each is the
cause-and complement of the other, and to impose
restriction on (the one Is necessarily to lessen
Therefore it follows, wo may presume, that
if all the bootmakers of a colony wore thrown
out of employment and say £1,000,000 worth'
of boots were imported there would bo an
increased export of £1,000,000 worth of some
produce to stand as correlative to thb in-
creased import. That would not neoossarily
or even probably be the case, yet the imports
would have to be paid for in some way. In
the instsneb wb nave given A would have to
tt-ansfer to Germany value in some form to
pay for thb boots sont' out to his order, but
it is by no means necessary that this should
have been by export of goods or that goods
should have been so sent b? other parties
and however payment were made the amount
would be a debit to the sum of exchanges of
the colony as against the world. It is clear
when thu consideration is regarded, that
Exports do pay for Imports only when they
arosequal to them in the ratio of exchango :
if greater then the balance of exchange is
in favour of the colony, but if less it is
against it. This subject has been so recently
dealt with in these columns and at such
length that furthor notice here is superflu-
ous : but two things hero may bo particularly,
regarded: first that it is necessary to the
Freetrade argument that Exports should
balance Imports : and second that they do
not do so. Upon ths three fallacies above
quoted the Freetraders’ faith has been
founded. The usefulness of the structure
may be easily calculated by this review of its
foundations.
Philip Drunk and Philip Sober.
Imi'JELLVD br the wild intoxication of revenge, the
Sydney daily papore shrieked and yclle«l for the
but special pleading for the lives of the condorancd
appeared in their leading columns; not a lino or
a thought was urged, unleis, inj the fevored ima-
gination of those passionate writers, it contained a
reason against the exercise of mercy. In vain
Tux Bulletin appealed from "Philip drunk
to Philip sober"—the editorial, clerical, Exccu-
far gone in his mental inebriation to bo able to
persuade himself that he was not perfectly sober.
Ordinary drunkenness is productive of little harm
perfectly sober that acts disastrous to himself
and his fellows ensuo. So it was in this Mount
Rennie yuan la. News;aper-conductora hud seen
so useful a help to their circulation that tho
oft-repeated denunciations of its- supposed perpe-
trators acted as a stimulant in Urn first place, and
tho dose being repeated led to tho ultimate
wild emotion in place of calm thought, while tho
booser at tho fount of oulrago still believed him-
self to be guided by his refleotlve powers, at least
killed those boys ; had Philip been awaro of his
op his ghastly work, and, like most drunkards suf-
moro. But Philip took tho same plodge when
blind-drunk with excitement or passion in, the
toms of " suffering a recovery." Search its lead-
thero will not bs found a single sentence that
might be taken even to exouse, much less justify
a reprieve; yet on Friday morning, the vory day
ting two of the main points which Tux Bulletin
posed. In this leader, the first indication of tho
Herald Philip's return to sobriety oocurs in this
" That the prisoners were atl iery rerun* and very Ignorant
could not bo questioned, and on such grounds lA- preroga-ic*
a/mtrtf might b> jtutijlablf txtrtitnl— lust as It might be in
Save for tho use of the potential mood in the
Italicised portions, this sentence is worthy of a
place among Bulletin matter printed while the
Herald Philip was still drunk. And as if this
" Taking this view of the oase, the logical result would
galltt might tx Jrutty txtniotd is ait aurt of thr kiml is wAIcA
milmrf htrmlf mtuu to hair ..« up a pin for mtre, car. harxUg
Here igaln' The Bulletin argument is . pon-
derously confirmed, but not, and this point Is im-
portant, until the fact was deprived of all efflcacy
to stay the disgrace whloh the colony has suffered.
In other words, the S.M. Herald, though con-
fralned from putting those claims forward untiji
doomed to die. Tho sober and repentant Phi up
••The ANraoeilr of Iht vjr rcrolu at the Idea of sending
of deliberate murder. It is not very long ago. for instance,
land poisoners, were lying In gaol under sentence of death
for the murder of the daughter's husband; but although
En passant we would venture to remind this
been prima facie cleared of all complicity in the
crime by the confession of the other ; and would
for urging up to tho very date of the execution
that all six of these boys should be hanged. But
let him proceed 1—
"The only reason for commutation of the sentence Uy in
that fact If the execution of women is considered repugnant
to human nature, eren where their criminality has placed
hem beyond the pale of human sympathy, it might with not
**•' nf humanity. Howctct. Urn Ooramn, K. ... ~*
to adopt thti view of th« cue." ' °
But “this view of the case," although takenby
Tan Bulletin, has boen spurnod by.aiMhe dall/
parson-ridden Journals of Sydnoy. Divested of
“It*"—the unfailing Indications of mental feeble
noss, or joumalietio cowardice-these quotatlc™
would, save /or want of vigour, have been accent-
.b!. b, THE BULLKTIN ib it, ~Uo u da?i;
prleve. Yet in that contention, up to , hBYn _
date of thb execution, The Bullet,*
lutely alone.
But It Is not simply on the ground of theta
youth that the Hkßald, on the 7th of Januant
the day of execution, asked for a reprieve oftSf
Mount Ronnie criminals (who. by the time th.
Herald leader came under the eye. of most of Z
readers at tho breakfast-table, wore dangling
the air); the circumstances of the trial, ptnl*.
tenUy urged by The Bulletin, are also alludM'
to In these words
"It U the v«r essence of our criminal J-,ri«pru<ta no , u*.
ooimsel'ln'hU d»° U ' " bat" that * * ll °** J ***' of '
should be afforded him by the CourtUleluTto the fw. l '
It ha. rarely ha Pl *„«l that any cause for
respect baa arisen of late years: but the present Instsnosh
tiona Whatever the faciiiUea affordJuo .
the Court are protracted from day to
and Jurymen alike. The celebrated Tichbome f wS"!!
EnslandwM only one of many loatance. in -hlch Courts'
presided over by the most eminent of English Judges bars
patientlyaat from day lo day, f,r weeks torether forthl
pnrpeae of administering Justice 1„ the merciful ipWtoT
English law. Bui uocom tuu Utn htard <y <« *.
K*(c* Kngti* Judgti han email'd juror, and
• rimlnal cusrsisrofrinp issurs n/li/r ami dial), loiUalllhromk-
Ouuftkt ia.pilti>/,ti*alrJprot'«.and rrqu,*./or adjnri-
Why, It may be wondered, did tho Heraid delay
tb® publication of this last Italicised sentence I'
Judgo Windever, who “compelled Ivors and
Hkhald asserts, “all through the
of repeated protests and requests for adjourn-
ment”—ls now well on his way to England : this
statement should have appeared while ho wu-
still In New South Wales.
Beyond this latter consideration of delay Int
is the larger question: " Why was the publication.
of this leader, so far as it affected the convicts
and tho colony whom their exception (especially
after so monstrous a trial) disgraced, so long de-
ferred I” And this la a question which can--
not bo answered, although it has only two
possible solutions. Either Philip was drunQ but
becaino sober on the 7th January, when hli-
drunken excesses hiJ.l completed the disastrous’
and ghastly work; <*- else Philip was sober till
the time and felgnedtirunkenness so as not to fair*
out with tho “ Respecable" ones of thocDmmunlty.'--
If tho first answer btf the true one, tho pious con--
daptors of the Herald must, in suffering a re-
covery, look upon thomsclves. as instigators of a’
murder, none tho less shocking because Invested•'
with a legal sanctity ; for if those qualifications''
of the Mount Rennie crime had been admitted by;
tho Herald a week ago. we freely admit to dls>.
believing that Uif execution would have taken*
place. The Herald is the recognised organ of -')
pompous and bourgeois respectability, and in such'
a case as tilts Its pleading for mercy, though'
qualified by a thouaand " ifs," would have pre-
vailed against tho unanimous cry for a thought-•
less and brutal revenge by tho other papers. But
if, on the other hand, Philip was sober through-
out, his crimo in crying for tho blood of the crimi-
nals far exceeded in point of guilt any crime'
which these boys ever did commit or wore capable*
of committing. Murder may be wrought by other
instruments than the knife or the poison-bowl;'-
it may be the work of the journalist who, justicel
being in danger, it too cowardly to speak. ~
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Sir Charles Dilke.
the fiiihuiongcring Journal* of Sydney w
C'IUWFOKD bad accused him and herself of gross
immorality, and thongh Sir Charles had cate-
gorically denied on oath Mrs. CbawkoUd’b allega-
tions he wa* disbelieved, and condemned in efftet
for the doable crime of seducing a friend's wife
and barefaced perjur.v. It would never do for-
your gutter rags to be robbed of a scrap of profit-
able filth. Yet there were good
charges against him as credible. Self-aocuratlon*
such as Mrs. Crawvokh's ore always unreliable
In themselves. A woman who is wrought BP to
the pitch of charging herself with infidelliy »her-
husband may often be safely pronounced lrrwp*--
s:U>. \Vheof.enufti:.l bon-l 1.. unbearable.-
a woman sometimes will frantically " confess" to
her husband that.sho has committed acts Impera-
tively demanding its severance, and therefore
will adhere to her story, though It
purely Imaginary. Then the friends erf Sir
tfullty. The Liberal Caucus of Chelsea accepted ;
his avowal of Innocence, and tho groat loaders ol
tho Liberal party—men such as Oladstos*, •
Chami.cki.ain, Harcourt, and John Moklct-
SSffftSK ■
refused to yield up their friendship or their confi-
donee. Furthermore, a high-minded woman, ■
whose character Is above the reach of tho mna-
casUng fraternity, and whose knowledge of DUX*
was thorough and complete, threw off the re. -
stralnts imposed by tie world, and ponferrod oc
him the most distinguished honour of offering*
herself In 'marriage to Him.
caterers tojhe filth-loving secUon of humanity,
persisted in bulling up a hugo fabric of theory
and Innuendo ovulated to blacken the character'
of this man against whom thcro is really not a well J
established allegation When the news QWfi*
that Dilkb’s friends were moving with a vleWng
having an investigation of the charge, the acuow


j. have nucoooded In securing a re-
f lie whole -■« The Queen's
„ivcn his consent to this, and It is
, point out that M.o fact of this function-
entbelng obtained is pr/md
bo'arsntod'unUjM substantial proofs to
?ono in which a gifted and accomplished
has been made the vlollm of the
o's or exigencies of* woman driven to
sir
« E“-oV.
moU .T°for hcrei Is a question touching the oredl-
wutr of women's testimonr whore they are
' • 1 ~h» influence of soms overwhelming emotion
under °n Sir Charles DILKE la by no
lrt*.- 1^ b womTn #n on«s n 'begtM to*lle touching
When »wo |Q quw( j o n, she displays
skill In fabricating the smallest de-
tails other story. In Hiring these togother aed n
Irifhohel emag*Uag
' speedy* terminarion.
A Testimonial to Mr. Dibbs.
Usually a testimonial Is made up of voluntary
of thejonagonsg*^«jpffigg
Md°is demanded by Minis erial .blusterers who
your a^h^UnUtry has recklessly squon-
Patrick*Jksmsi?s is supposed
Theyta ive i? teat UnoriaHz 9*1)1 ;n us ™ot°bocaus4*he
and Incapable relatives.
friends^an^oachjimnofj>resent^andmt^Minis-
no such refornNmuld soonfto be really purposed
except perhaps I n the l)o pa rtmentof Lards- Thereds
justifle^bj^ coutrolllßg
SJ^ d S t^lway^tMt ” I stop o whlX e howsver
Justified by clrcumstanw*. to^citos
money'the? can without 1 the c
Tough to lnsUtupon thejmposltloa
talned, but they arc very
travellers are'undar review. They are not strong
enough to wring fair dues from InflusnUaMm-
enough hidploas and hiibordmate p«re<ms
The Tiger and the Ape.
80MBWHKBC in the depths of bloodthirsty degra-
SiKtS S£o£
£sS?JSS'h'SHSi t«M
fi»"S more monkey lah-than the aps.
he mUft surely have reached the nadir of ttupid
ferocity, and done all possible honour to Us paren-
tage. The demand for the introduction of Ll hen
law In N.S. Wales made by “CritO" in the corres-
pondence column of tha^wili
disgrace the Australian
’ne betterby u^ing^the
RszouksuTkeep may safely bo deicrlbed
as the worst specimen of its kind. ••QUITO
illustrates his argument by describing a cate of
rape that took place in an American town {not
■perilled), and then says of tho criminal
MM
in N.S. W. everybody who was arrostod, whether
Innocent or guilty, would havo gono up
l together without t ial or lnqdlry amid
• the acclamations of a brutal mob If
- JwJgs Lysch^ Urrf*thU
- SicnUy o lircum'tmidUi y UU-.eouUMua n rope
h this akplenl writer
, admires *0 much it U often tho criminal htmu-ir,
too, who hauls on Uic rope tliat sends an Inn com.
. man up Into eternity, for Lynch law must ha\o
iu victim and have him at oneo. and tho cunning
Hmrdorcr who can divert suspicion on to another
for a few (Jays or Won hours lean mnko himself
tolerably safe. Somebody Is hanged, and that is
aU-Umtl.* wanted, aud dead man am silent, am*,
create no unpleasant bother afterwards. The
Chinese-a raoe who arc making gratifying
advahees In civilisation- have igniaed thefUtl-
lity of tills kind of justlco.and havesubsittutod for
it an olaborato systornwhich must commend Itsslf
to anybody-justa little less blood thinty than “Crito**
Mid hi* tribe. When suspicion la strong but the
ovldonco hardly^ conclusive the prisoner la flogged
nesses wtotaldinjoUmnaiblUty;*but* f 'the
holdout. nn°acquiltal generally follows. 10 ThU
process has the great recommendation that It gives
u wrongfully accused man a fair chance for bis
him no opportunity whatever to defend
himself. The despised Mongol Is therefore vastly
ahead of the civilised man from the B:ates where
Lynch law predominates. Inasmuch as a flogged
witness Is ten times better than no witness at all
Fortunately for tho Australian people, howorer,
"Crito’s oodo is not 1 amorce in
pended from almost every tree. Bince the Mount
Kecnio tale was published at least half-a dozen
similar storios of outrages perpetrated by bands
of rnfllans have been circulated In various dis-
tricts, but In every case either the prjsecutrix
failed to appear or the broke down miserably In
her attempt to emulate the stirring story of Miss
Mary Jane Hicks. No doubt this was a serious
blow to the polloe, hut then it is not every day
that these individual can hare a carnival which
would* 1 * robably J have .!Tob!o h ho?c™ußt
before It was discovered thft- m Injured woman
niony has hitherto prevented the people of New
South Wales from absolutely dispensing with
a little better than Lynch law—though, perhaps,
not much, Just as a jury of sleeping men Is hotter
than amummy.andainuintny Is better than a skele-
the abolition of this last slender safeguard against
alone ; his fellow-colonists aro not so anxious as
he Imagines to prove their descent from the tiger
and the ape.
Washing Day In the Jennings Cabinet
I "Go forth, my son, and see with how little
truth Now South Wales is governod 1” and the
son went forth, and having read the Thomson-
Diiius-JKNNiKosoorrospondenoc. obtained a pretty
velopments before deciding os to the identity of
champion liar and arch-tmltor of Jubilee year. |
Like him wo pojtpone decision as to tho merits of ]
this political controversy until tho Supremo Court
has b«?en interviewed appoints In
senftlme! lr Tfio* first*ofThesc is tho contemptible
chi’dUhncss which tho Ministerial disputants
have displayed. Thole correspondence oontalna
nothing whatever of dignity, and with regard to
literary merit is even to* mßtenino News
apparently passionate sentences of the
can only bo equalled by the blundering
abuse of the Colonial Secretary, and the thought-
ful reader of these crude epistles will wonder no
longer why the deficit is adjacent to £3,000,«».-
tho puzzle to him will be why it is not ten times
os great. When such petulant, puerile persons
as Sir Patrick Jennings and Mr.^DißHshave
ratter 1 eurprlw that*thfm
rovead oU wlth D^ anything approaching seriousness :
the alleged circumstances nre so
Ut rather*tLm to the politlcUn/but in the aooount
of the proceedings in dispute told to have been
written Diuua hitnselftasro Ismo sentence
lowing year.Tmd thereby
expenditure can bo pr.perly cut down even “with
Mr. THOMfOH’s ossiaUtnce " In this manner, there
Is'eo reason for a considerable amount of expen-
We owe tho Primate on explanation. We I
j accused him last week of passing byUrn jtt»»
moment ' Ms-U»dA?P turJd and made a futUe
appeal for tholr reprieve. Hta Lordship was in-
formed thatwnen so distinguished in the commu-
nity as Sir Henry Parks*, the Cardinal and Mr.
Dalley bad res lived to appeal, and it possibly
?hem ‘ s*£S£l. thing to
’’ society ” pleading passionately,
colly for that eommutat^n^v Web proper
but Then distinguished people appeared on the
scene everything was changed. His Lordship
made a deathbod repontanoe. « e believe it is
the teaching of theology that the appeal even In
la accepted at tho throno of
3vlno (mercy, bat it seems (to our blindness, por-
Shot) that there is a slight difference when the ,
tuhL&£ta<le at the deathbed of another man.
1-nnD Oarivoton. the broken man of pleasure,
ihe exhausted London fashionable, salad day
and has miserably foiled. His conduct
wh-n the-deputation consisting of Sir Henry
Pabkes. Mr. Dalley, Cardinal Mohan, and
Bishop Ba»RY ap^oachedhlm^to asktar neam-
KIXSioW-. »i»«
slnsle member of the deputation based his appeal
SSiobkttMt question of t*£* ? "Otbe,
ASS”onU» mlg*
VS, iSK!!TbM»-« “> a
force of intellect tho distinguished ipeakers pos-
ss- smXjs./s
tho death-penalty for fape,%id^iOi|^baßedypoP
ohi^TlSUd; C hia -Sxeellenoy
assure the deputation that he was willing to re-
oten the question If any special foots < it a
mitigating nature were brough*
the cose of any of tho prisoners—in is
being In faot the object which the deputation had
In waiting upon hla ExooU«ncy. In reality. Lord
Carinoton’b reply intimated that the Influential
they were talking about, and was, consequently,
an Insult to their lutelligonoe, or not a compliment
to bis own. We are told that when the deputa-
tion of members of Parliament approached him he
promised to send them an answer, and hurriedly
withdrew. We atsure him that. In view of his
conduct In the Mount Rennie case, a similar
hurried course of action with regard to the colony
would not be without its elements of gratification.
Aa far back as the good old days of King Edward
VL, the Land Question was well to the fore. The
mediieval lords of the so'), In Iron gauntlets and
velvet jumpers, were required to give and do a
good deal more in return for their broad acres
than are thoir modorn kid gloved representatives.
Nevertheless It was thought necessary to manu-
facture—for Church and private consumption—a
“ I*rayer for Landlords." Somebody has supplied
the London Echo with a oopy of this very prac-
tical prayer. Here is aa extract :
heartily pr» T The# to "gd Thy Holy Spirit IntoUw
civilisation I Three hundred and thirty years ago
the King and Protestant clergy of England put In
sent to superintend evictions and the United
Kingdom doesn't contain one person with the
pluck to lift up his voice against the "squire"
who appoints him to his living. The Rovd.
Aminadab Slkkk alters the noeltlon of the apos-
trophe In saying that the earth Is the Lords'. He
possibly the oily snutHer is right. Such men could
scarcely be aooepted as tenants of the Almighty.
A gibbering wreck who signs himself
“An Australian" propounds the following de-
structive conundrum In the correspondence column
object, and nodoubt that ihej would clear out looser
We have often heard of a faith that can remove
mountains, but this Is a newer and rarer variety.
Of course we might send somo troops to the Now
Hebrides If we had them. And of course the
French might clear out to avoid a collision—they
might. Also, we would remark, an elephant
might run fifty miles In frantlo terror because he
was being chased by an Infuriated sardine, but
wo don't-think he would. He would be more
likely to throw his flattened enemy Into the middle
of next week, which is exactly what the French
would do with our “ troops." Then they would
probably think about sacking Melbourne and
4O oublta high?* That gentleman, by tho-bye,
hu quite forgotten to mention what we want with
the New Hebrides, wh'ch are 1600 mUee away—
be worth a cent. to uj If wo had them. A hope-
lessly-mortgaged selection in the middle of the
Sahara would be just ai valuable to Australia as
was meant by nature to servo as a hen-coop for a
bull dog caimot bo expected to bother about such
trifling de'ails.
Tub old dlscuislon as to'whether tho prle t or the
husband is most entitled to a wife's confidence has
again croppsd up In England. The trouble this
time arose from ihe fact that, In completing the
conversion of a Protestant lady, a Roman Catholic ■
priest found it necessary to obtain throe private
hearing of these visits the husband been me wrath-
ful and wrote to Cardinal Manning, who tried to
jusUfy the priest’s conduci. queeU°n
and* wife, °boLng joined togethor in mutual con-
fidence. can be sundored In such confidence by no
man, or else the marriage contract contains a
special reservation In favour of oolibatc priests.
If tho latter view, es supported by CArdlnal Man-
ning, bo correct. Roman are not
Is thoroughly understood, unless. Indeed, the hus-
band be also permitted a reservation In favour of
a feminine confessor of the faith. But if oonjugal
confidence Is thus Impaired by a twofold oxtonslon,
there really does not seem to be any reason what-
ever for Introducing religious ceremonies Into the
celebration of marriago at all. If the priest Is to
be superior In authority to the husband It is a
mere farce having a bridegroom atß.<\ weddings ;
he might just as well stay away andthe priest bo
The Jubilee Hallelujah Institute.
By the “ Old Scndownbr.-
London, October 29th, 1886,
Dhar Bulletin,—The oboso citizens who are
always trying to squeeze their corporations Into
Cartngton's drawing-room would Uke to be hang-
ing round Pall Mall just now. They would see
BunUtrSmith! If he had been around, could, by
XU'Sr. £
the SSf*adT“ ThS
perfal Institute." Premier Jennings has got his
own little way of oolebratlng your centennial, but
it Is nothing to Cunly-Fowen's dodge for com-
memorating the Jubilee of Her Gracious. The
plan Vsimple, Uke all great scientific discoveries.
IC consists primarily in getting a number _of
grovelling Premiers of so-called self governing
ooloniee todip their hands Into the public purse and
hand over the proceeds to H.R.H., or. In other
words, to Cunly-Fowen. Tho ostensible object of aU
sssttttsttjjsgs:
jour Premiers and Co. are seeing who can get
thoir hands deepest Into the public money-bag -
they wtU perhaps become Barts, by . the prcc-ee.
SirFUthy Lucre Clarke, U&B, Mn ‘
ve.las a thousand for this JubUee InsUtute, and
some o?the Canadian money-bags have doubled
that sum in their hope of a peerage One way
and another Wales wIU have a constteroble sum
in hand 13 establish his Imperial Institute.
2LSJK
Whether they put up a big Jerry built edifice at
South Kensington, or on the Thames Embank-
InSai. swl stuff it with maps, d-«d kangaroos,
regenerate sundowners, or colonial play actors,
what good will each a show’ do loathe people of
of the i/dne'y larrikin or enliven the dreary
homestead of tho. Gtppeland bu-hwhneker 1 Kol
but if Woles and Cunly-Fowcn—or Wales with-
out Cunly-Fowon—can lay his hands on enough
colonial gold he will be able to do the JubUoe
trick by providing snug billots and nice warm
binete w*U te ro K Tv^totapeOTntous t^hSstndS
few./minor clerkship* will go'to a few colonial
lickspittles. This is Kngllah, quite English, don-
cherknow. Already Hcnnlkor Heaton his got hla
pockets full of applications from place-hunters,
who have found out where Australia i* on the
map and who prefer the shady side of Pall Mall
to canvassing for the Nooze. Suppose, for the
sake of argument, that one or two really repre-
sentative) colonial young men are pitchforked into
good will this do to the denizens of Sydney
or Me'bourne i In fact, the whole business
is a fraud and a mockery from the beginning.
Tho staff of the Jubilee Institute will consist of
throo or four aristocratic dead-beats, who will
draw from £lOOO to £6OO per annum. A Colonial
&M.G. and a Colonial^ Champion Guzzlor
y(Tung gentlemen who hnvo passed University
examinations in or Sydney—anil who,
service, and a boy in buttons whose name
fully organized and the maps, kangaroos, band!-
their proimr places, there will bo a grand owning
when tho basin-chested prince will gcrgle through
a speech written by somobody else, and all tho
Agents General. Sir Salmon Wilson, and Hennikcr
After this tho great Jubileo Institute will be
visited by two apple-women, a drunken grenadier
and a bilious theological student.
[?]ESPONDENCE
Tue Bouim will return ell Rnsultable MBS. when th
sddro* U spoclfisd End stamp* in enclosed. Bat n doire
‘‘Merryweruher" (London): The Bulletin bag
refrrr*<l your letter to the American Consul "RJi.":
Your lengthy end rety Irish historical eater would Inter.-st
nobody who did Dot claim docent lion an ancient Milesian
ocDturiu after the reign of Henry II thefliiih were killed
like (ame by penon. qualified or unquoted. Whether
doge were ofed dot* not appear quite cerktp, though It la
probable they were, apanlel* a* well at pblatera. and that
after a regular point by Baeto, well backed by Yon to and
Qatar, Mr. CBonnell or Mr. O Leary bolted from the
thicket and wen bagged by the Fo|llah tpartamaa."....
“0. T. Filend" : If you hare a wager u to Mia Minnie
When you err in Hum do ae Bum dote “O.Sted-
man* (Balmain): Please go alow. Your friend, O. E. L. .
Trcror, goea on the plea that a woman's eirtua la dearer to
her than her life, and that the man Who takea either thould
-bow*theu (RedttraTl'neaka for°decayed
tooth Hein. Aa for the omnlbuaa, howertr, wt lore them
We enjoy getting our humble breakfast ehaken up aa wt
come along In the morning. It makes naleel ready to throw
the poeta downstair*..... "A.D.K.": Wry do you aend aa
original matter extracta from articla written by Mr. Krnert
BlackweUPoker": Wa. of course, admire the taete of
the Caatlemaine LKADKR, which prinU opr matter ae
original. Bat we don’t admire lu honeaty...." You are a
Liar": We are glad to eeeyou read The Bulletin. If you
are a liar and not too far gooe It will d* you g00d...." A
Victorian Natire 1 *: Come along-and bring your coda with
you. ."Alex. B."( Balmain): We here much pleasure in etatlog,
according to your d«alr«, that you do not fottewthe honourable
and lucratire profeaaion of barber. Aa to your " preference
for the occupation of corporation scavmger to that of
himselfbeat suited "Young Australian j': QUA to hear
that because 'a man hai a atrong apinal column he ha* a
rtrong”brain...." Freethinker "(BurWood): The priest aid
the woman again. See our at tide of to-day....“ Bill": We
“HheppartooYour Idea about surgery Is not particularly
original. Buggeat your icheme to King John of Abyssinia,
who cuts off the feet of habitual thlcros, and thlnka the plan
a good one. liy the way. in the case of a ooufirmed perjurer
pricil or parr on i* " inroUd with a PlrW spirit on hla «-
whom It concern*. Our bu*inta* i* with clegmen as ciU-
make a few remark* on the subject, but the quation
■lone, llut we do wish that the Primate would aroid using the
metf* thougjulto the collection-piste and stipend fund....
" SaW." (Orange) :Thelaw must be altered. Abarbarou.
enactment .landing at the srrtlc* of whoare unfit
But It U proud of the fact-the more so that It now finds
itself supported by foremost minds at the
intentions outlreS admitted by Uie S. M. Herald, a pow-
erful and unpatriotic which^ though conscious all
I tid£ promt until too laU-uutil af.er Mr. Dailey and Sir
Henry Parka had spoken. Ooco upon a Ume. in old Greece.
1 all those who had come to bear a philosopher's discourse left
the hall, sure one. But the speaker proceeded, for It^waa
bTonthetoringrido. but it trio to bs In the right...."YHhE
Cos" (Tea) : Ncrer again. Patrick " (Tambo, tf.J
| KUlrssd andcon»idrr....lManyrtpßabekloTar.)


The Keferee
It wouldappcurthatthe Victorian cricketers
took their recent licking very badly, as but three
at l hem pat in an appearance at the fruit and cake
feed given to the Hanglanderi by the Melbourne
Association.
In the last match between the Australian
Eleven und the Englishmen hard knocks were
more plentiful! than run». Barnes’bowling was
tho ground has been opened have
batsmen had to contend against such a wretched
wicket, which Barnes rendered positively d^ttv
A Harmy “captain,' 1 serving tho.Loard
away at Oldham,"Lancashire, Fred.
bL* a t*nches! noant ’
Turner has been presented with a silver
bat In recognition of his performance In Mel-
bourne in taking three wickets with three consecu-
tive balls. Tamer Is now oalied by thoao who
The treatment Evans received at the hands
of Garrett in the late International Match was on
a par with that meted out to him during the whole
of tho tour. How any Captain could prefer the
bowling of Jones and Trumble to that of the
“Fakir," as Garrett the first Innings of the
Englishmen, is a mystery to all outsiders.-
A good attendanco_ witnessed Foley’s
Sloven arc amwigst tho few, and tlielr .scionUtlo
Show was first-class. Murphy and Ja !
four rounds were more bloodthirsty ; Murphy bad
the best of it all through Fogarty had tho belter
of thA usual character filled up the evening.
Sherwin is certainly a demon behind tho
stloks. His work in the International was os good
as anything over seen on tho ground. Briggs was
getting very glam over his want of suoceen this
. trip, b"t his really good performance In the Inter-
national has put him straight again.
It is fortunato that a hitch has arisen in
tho proposed boxing-match between Peter Jackson
prove buUt chopplngblock^for*tho lusty Jackson.
The'English cyclists will be amused should
they read the papers which credit Wood with
race at Sydney Highland (lathering in 33 l-Ssec.,
The iiext Carington Athletic Handicap
will bo run at night In grounds illuminated with
tho electric light.
Having won the 150 yards Carington
Handicap, with 22 yards’ start, Morchont re-
solved to fly nt higher gnmo, and at Parramatta
and, slackening up,
advance of his friend.
Since Hutchins lias »oon out'hore, paopla
have wondered why Malone, tho champion of
Australia, has mode no sign. Ho has now
Saturday Mr. John^ Cannon. principal,
in Australia, bar Hutchens, for £2OO aside, con-
coding haU-a yard start In every AO. Mr. Cannon
Is also prepared to back Malone to run Ilntchons
440 yards for £lOOO, and if they cannot agree
about tho ground he will run on a turnpike road.
There’s no “.gate-monoy " sound about this.
Four or five at least of tho Australian
matdi, and ft is to l.e hoped foMte'snke'
tmlian cricket that such another quarrelsome
combination will never again be sent “ home."
C. Clifford, an 18-year-old branch of tho
rowing family of tbnt ok. pulled four winning
races at Dapto regatta.
An argosy of some :<0 bookmakers is said
to hove left England in scorch of the golden ficeoe
The race for the pedestrian championship
betweia black Samuels from the Barooo and
4 Hutchons from England will be decided next
Monday, 17th Inst., on the Carington Ground,
Sydney. Tho stake is £400; Mr. Markham find-
ing tho needful for Hutchens, while two Sydney
bookmakers So far os can be
genuine. }
“-To him that hath shall bo given.” An
instance of this occurred in connection with tho
bogus swoops. We will not specify tho consulta-
tion, but we vouch accuracy of what a
and being either beguiled or put up to buying five
tickets, wrote to the promoters saying that it
would afford Mine encouragement to buthmen If
it were known that a prize or two came to the
district. HU syndicate was rewarded with a £2O
pi Ire, and every roan-jack (what is a man jack I)
on the'station and on some of his neighbours took
rfiVefee came to\bat district—nor.
to certify to the squareness of the Timbuctoo
dsnoe, however, occurred. The bank-manager
from Mr. Squatter’s nearest township had shortly
before been transferred to the head office of the
bank advertised ns treasurer of the sweep (no
Another addition to the long list of thoeo
who have perished to make sport for the people I
James Skehan, atat 15, whose riding-weight was
sst. 121 b., died in Sydney Hospital on Thursday
riding Bexley in Tattersall's two-year-old Bclllng
Ben Bolt returned to Victoria on Thurs-
day. If the Caulfield Cup winner does not do
hardly 'pay the a woek ’ho U leased for, let
Barlow's ribs testify that
connubial blirs has taken noth'
■Son's' bowling.
After all a yearling salo is
guineas at auction. -Yet the
cheap oolt easily put down hho
ton Plato.
Mr. Andrew Town's an-
nual sale of thoroughbreds takes
place on 20th lest, at Hobart-
ville, JVchmond. when Mr. T.
8. Cllbborn will bo the " George
including the progeny of such
(iresas Mnribymong, Vespasian.
Somnus, Grandmaster. Cheater,
Epigram. Darebin, Grand
Klaneur, and other horoee of the
poet and paddock.
A good story is going tho
whiohoccurrod during the Aus-
tral lan-Yorksb Ire match at
Shofllold. Tho colonials wore
evidently eot at the wickets for
the day, and tho disgusted Sbof
per, in compliance with tho yells,
torslx. his seoond for six, and
his third forfour. Juetthen the'"
Hold, thinking it was-"over,"
began to change positions, but
crack. Wado sent
making -.'2 off tho four ball*. That squelched
his popularity at once, and a tremendous roar from
Wukd ! Dorn it, mon, tiUik off Wrtiid !" Such is
the value of the crowd s applause all tho. world
Old Commotion, as he is called, though his
age is but eight years, the successor to The Barb
as a public - equine Idol, .was so badly injured in
tho Bagot Handicap that he had to bo literally
carried into the saddling paddock. Tho odds are
In the final heat of Malone’s Gladstone
Handicap there remained in Cannondy, Acker-
man. G. and S. .'Smith. Cannondy, notwithstand- I
ing that he ran under protest, was made the 1
hottest of favourites, 5 to 2 and oven < to 1 being
section of pigoons present, that they'eagerly’ac-
copied 1 about placing four. Carmondy
was as bounding as an indiarubber ball, but, after
gotting himself put back two yards for leaving his
mark, was he easily beaten by Ackorman. about
whon. 8 to 1 was going a begging.
Professor D’Arcy Hyland gave an exhibi-
blUon of bullock-riding at Parramatta on'/3alur-
Md lk tho h€t£
a bit when, just as wo were beginning' to liko
threw'himselfmUof 1 ° onclo * uro ' Tho
nearest fence, go did we. ““ ma 0 for the
Mr. Charles Samuel, or Samuels (ho ai>-
peared undeoided as to whether his name was
spelt with a dual “ s “1 informs Us that his younger
brother Combo, an aboriginal gentleman who
station? has*g* ven "htaTwo' u]
“ off him." Apart from the Samuel's
°' ex Pr-*Bsion, there enn be little
*n?li^. CombO ’,. oU * h n ' ran(fl " and hard
to train, is a very slippery customer indeed.
Since poor Fred Archer shot himself
somebody ha* discovered that his fata was pre-
dicted by a gipsy woman in 1879. He crossed her
hand with silver, and then the old hag, gazing In-
tently at his palm, fcc.. See., sudden
death, young gentleman, and by your own hand "
of Archer - wo decline to
believe that ho ever squandered sixpence on a
spurious gipsy,\or. If an obliging friend stood the
“i?' we don,t , »"}{•*« Sibyl talked like
that. Most likely she said, "God bless your honor
but merry is your eyo and bright your smile, many
a maiden a hoart will you set aching and many a
cherry lip will your lip press, long wUI be your
life and fair your fortunes ; riches and honours
are in store, and if your honor can spare another
little sixpence,for old Gipsy Jane may your honor
The Mount Rennie Exeoution.
Wb hare been favoured with tho following
extract from a remarkably unconventional
private letter received by a Wagga man from
a Sydney official: —
'• With, say, a couple of hundred other*. I wit-
neesod tho hideous scene of last Friday-tho
lianglng of four youths for a so-ca’led rape on a
have been held "w^^^bsen
the protecUon which law awards evon to tho
S£S.TS."n.«tssr
'slaughter oould have been deliberately sanction'd
that the populace had been worked up to a red
heat by tho industrious circulation in the Proas'
tales concerning unmentionable cruelties which.
to have been committed on the prosecutrix. I
have the very highest olhcial authority for stat-
ing that these stories, which may perhaps have
reached you, werejn»re don’t pro-
that Bort of thing vide evening papers. I wont
[?]
solely to sco for myself the kind of victims upon
whom so terrible a vongeanco was to bo wreaked.
various parts of the world, though in almost ovory
what sentiment I started with knocked ont of my
those four miserable boys walk firmly on to the
scaffold with their respective spiritual advisers.
I'd willingly havo given a limb or a few years of
my lifo to havo them reprieved. They inarchod
on just as though they had been drilled and they
looked such children—upon my soul, old man, two
those little boys in buttons at Thore
pinioned,, calmly waiting, without a
menu. Tho hnngmnn was a horroi—nose-
less, dressed in black, six feet high,
with hugo hands and feet, he looked
like an exaggerated gorilla in broadcloth. A
‘ Great God ! Why, they don't look more than 14
or 15 years of nge 1 Carlngton surely nover could
have known this 1' As I have said, thore were
about 200 present, and as tho time of execution
drew near strong men (whom I personally havo
known to commit crimes ten times more morally
heinous than the one expiated on Friday! strained
their eyes and lookod quietly excited and expect-
brutal show—and it was evidently regarded as a
more show by most of those present, who had
gone thore jast as they would have gone to see a
dog-light or a prize-fight; tho animal was com
Ple^/f Predominant in that well-dressed mob-
on this occasion, C'orington having issued a ukase
against any more of tho Tomnoddian business on
tho part of his elaborate flunkeys, whose pre-
sence on a former oocasion of tho kind had In-
vested^ tly> gallows with an aroma of fashion,
hangman's assistant, P who pulled*"the bolt!
was a conspicuous figure on tho scaffold. He is a
man Who has Just resigned from the police, and
while attached to that body ho occupied the posi
tion of dog-catcher. What a fitting desoort!
Lgh i tho ensemble was so fearfully complete that
I have not yet oeasod to regret belonging to a
nation who could legalise suoh horrible boy-
butchery. For information re ' dull thud' and so
on, see every paper. But I mny tell you that not
one account that I have yet read has been charao-
terlsed by any degree of accuracy; there was
suffering, no doubt, yet strangulation, as you at
least theoretically know, Is not a very painful
"bea preceded by a nerve-jerk
which deadens the senses. The accounts in the
papers were mere ‘ catchpenny horribles.' In the
case of Read, who to my mind was un-
doubtedly innooent of actual participation in the
crime, the lungs had not ceased working seven
minutes after his fail. This was. of course s con
elusive proof that he sUll lived, but witothe’ others
tho action was more of a reflex nature. Duffy
died instantaneously, Boyce lived a considerable
time-three or four minutes perhaps The hang-
mans laches have been considerably exaggerated,
but with light bodies a drop of Bft. 61n. would
hare been Quite sufficient had the rope not been
so murderously thick. Tho knot was larger than
the bottom of n big champagne • bottle.
The demeanour of .the hangman's assistant was,
to my mind, unspeakably brutal. What a lovelv
tolioeiuan he must have been-how well u man <rf
over. I have h- ard scores of people rogret*that"tS
P&rkee-Dalley deputation did not wait earlier on
the Governor, who has been compl-toly misled bv
the doilies and his fneuds of the- Union Club as to »
the drift of Intellectual public opinion on the mk.
JecU By the way. Carington n.udo a fearfulme*. t
knew beforehand that the) had como u^beg
pared a \ constitutional' written .u,-wcr."wSoh
was to the effect Unit if h« «utnmuted all the sen-*
<■»*£-■**< WjrtJt
might havo tp urgo on behalf of any 0 f the
prisoners. Dailey here interjected that not al
single member of the deputation had asked for ant
aotirn equivalent to such an abrogation-all they
cum-tanceein the case which called for mercy; but '■*
Carington. who had his answer cut and dried and
evidently had not the brain power to depart from
it by inventing anything appropriate of his own ■
on the
The deputation wont away, I hear, profoundly h£.
preseed with Carington'm shallowness and incapa- i
city; our leading men now know for certain what has
long been more than suspected— that the Governor '
has a weak head. Two other things have excited
profound disgust of lho &M. Hxrald, '
way that tho boys should l>o hanged, altogether
ohangrd its tune on of tho execution
•OTOJg until. Anal had been done*
identified with tho reprieve movement. But when
invited to meet thoso msghates, I‘arkes and
Dailey, on the subject, my lord came out of his
shell instantly. What a trimmer—what a raise-
No wonder ho didn't get an English
wonder, is it, that ncithor tho G.O.M. nor Diny
him into aSee! If his Lordship doesn't
indeed do circumstances conspire against him—
appearances must be sadly deceptive. I hear
that deputation left, Lwd
of opinion belngthat the Governors attitudewas:
the bed-rock of solid intellect, I am a past-master -
able of arguing with you,' I'll lot you toe,
messieurs, that I can bo as mulish as Dibbe.'
sequenoe: Big breach between him' axjt .
Another thing. A crowd of snobs and others- i
nononUUee nearlj aU of them—went up from the
Union Club and Exchange with a petition stating
that they wAuld strengthen Carington’s
hands if he I decided to hang. Their
action was in kny case unprecedented, for
I never before in by life heard of anybody asking
the Queen to hang a criminal—however, the
Union Club and Exchange have an etiquette of
had a clause threatening that if Carington didn’t
are to havo Lynch law, all right, I don't’mlnd;
but let Judge Lynch ring his own bell and do bis
own hanging. This affair was Lynch law all ;
through-ffom tlmo Lha( y,,, wcre
and day for 38 hours (with only four hours' sleep) ■
same set who blackballed AaplnaU because he ]
came to Sydnoy to dofend O'Karrell. went to the
Kveobody who has thoug'ht^about'the matter*!
astonished at Carington's failure to perceive tbs -
tho more especially os that Judge adjourned the 4
mahogany on the night before the 38 hours' sitting. J
—tho merciful recommendatiooof the jury (emphgffl
sired in a memorial subeequently sent in signed bf
olght of their number) ; tho extreme youth and-4
ignoranoo of tho boys -. the shocking unfairness OtM
Court pi as never subjected any 'rich man*; tbe '
fact that no life had been taken, and that tho T
tainted persons ; the unparalleled sovorityS
of the colonial rapt- law : the strong -<j
division opinion the ExecuUve, and theg
drawn and unfit to calmly and dispassionate™
discuss any subject whatsoever-these are a few J
of the grounds which should have over ruled tho
decision to bqng. But the hideoda business hats
been done, and Carington has approved hlipaelfa
not only a miserably weak man but one destitute j
of perception and utterly unfit to bo tho guar-,
dian of British justice. lie has commuted an
error which ho will regrot to hit dying diy." Ufl
Mr. Samuel Hordern leaves Sydney for
England early in February to carry out- -as far «SU-
Hordern. Tho trip to England and tho vrorik'con- .
nected with it. will detain Mr. Hordefn*heven or
olght month*.
The past month has been dull in many
departments of trade, but the' noble Australian
Meivrt.«rS,w)w 9 and g ""o.'°e-infeotionary
works havo been running night ami day, and the
managing partner, Mr. M'Phlllamy, reports no
prospect of a rest. iJt-- ■
As the stiff-nockod Colonial Secretary
Dibbe could not in any other way t>e shunted,
Premier Jennings has resigned, taking tho whole
Ministry with him. Tho Jonnlngs-Dibbs com-
bination may be said to have died upon their own
gallows. They have left to the bleeding colony
of N.B.W. nought but a £3.000,000 deficit, a
choice collection of vile euilheta, four corpees. a
larga. brand-now gallows, an army of Ministerial
brothers and cousins and aunts in well-paid
billets, & lot of fragmentary railways actual and
prospective, leading from a wilderness at one end
to a public-house at tho other, a whole library of
both in Hansard, and an ocean of'OisgraoexDwft
is about aIL


SUNDRY
SHOWS
’gsssi&snssxsis^' .. ■■
It is difficult to elevate and uplift the hog,
a, to throw new light on the mule, and It is
almost equally difficult to tlnd something fresh
and brilliant to say about a lot of shows that have
been running persistently since that great beer-
swallowing anniversary, the Christmas of 1886.
But there seems to bo a boom In thejffiow busi-
ness notwithstanding this monotony, and the
glided youth of Sydnoy still rush to the theatres
at an estimated speed of a greater dlstanco than
is customary In much less Umo than Is usual
under equally exciting_^ol arsons
spectaT sendees, and when they’ are not engaged
In this holy contemplation they are at the theatro.
Also they arc Bulletin pretty
Sydney Guiefcy, however, rejoice*-in a
denoo," a drama which pourtrays In vivid colours
man who owns a baby and tolls railway-tickets.
He has a Hebrew friend whose nose la a great
shapeless blob of crimson, pants are like
aswollen chesa-boord, and in this
party introduces a shaky-legged, tottering baronet
who desires to buy the precious in'unt. There Is
also a passionate dude In tho drams, and while the
baky nob givcschangeforo hod half-crown this man
of Exodus. He also plays n llltlo choke on Uio
Hebrew, and just ns that unobtrusive person Is
jjJPlng for breath the loose-jawed man enters
iff the roof with ids gun. While ho is blowing,
ka baby la stolen, and shortly afterwards we find
a|bloated, stain on the fair face of creation
Smoking his pipe by n canal. Here the jug nosed
Jew, the man who blasted tho roof off and the
-Shaky swell all meet again, and a sha|>eless mass
|T locomotive hypocrisy wanders about a
sng hypocrite that he seizes a spike that is stick-
So man who blow the roof off splits up the hot-
HEt* The^' hy poetius v.u« hung on to tho spike
ufi th ° juk ’ aru,r
masUtrnle' 1 wi^h"
Davonport la exceedingly --owl, except whon .ho
Ktoe togio, and ton -to- I, exceedingly traglw
ae hrlng, down the hooee. however, when ehe
SUIT "” 7 " l 8- " n 4 •SM '•deep Idem-
vaSTSSm^S
• ....
Pdller “ F.lke,” or Ihc red-pliuk curtain,
oraomettlag U responsible for the nightly rush at
“juaey Criterion, and constant appeals for space
M « .tony .oil in to , iff tSiS.'KX
could aflbrd to bo as haughty as a Jook If ho
wanted to. Ws-have not yet quite solved the
problem, ol iu> epro tot w. iS
Fatta, wa arc now convinced, married
Aithur in tha hope of reforming him, and—though
this U not In the play—she afterward* sub let tho
contract to a lunatic asylum Boleilas that
raging (.terror of the foratrwe fancy must have
oomo to grief in after life. He is just tho sort of
wretch who would have choked an orphan idiot in
ono of his acta of highway robbery, and then died
penitent singing » protty littlo hymn in tho midst
of hi* Anal choke. Tanored's table manners are
■till of a bcar-llko character, but In a dream we
aaw him taking lessons In deportmont so as to
avoid spilling the slops over the old commander at
dinner any longor, and as for Falka—pourtrayed
by Miss Kmi lie Kelville-weU, there la hardly kny
pretty and cheerful as a white klUetTwlufa black
tall and a blue ribbon round Its n«ck, and If any-
one wishes to dsny this s'atement wo would like
to toe tho animal and saw him In two with a
boomorang.
*# # #
Minnie Palmer continues to “ grow upon ”
tho Sydney public, and half the nlne-to-flre dudes
of the Civil Service are already In love with the
quaint little Yankee maid. Her smile alone Is
bright as two halfsoverolgn* in a Baptist oollec-
tion-plate. We are glad to note that her husband
does not make himself too conspicuous ; If he did
he would certainly be killed by some envious
"baldhcad in the stalls. Minnie's rival, Louisa
Fleeter, however, does not grow on us to any
alarming extent. She looks as haughty as a bank
clerk and she expresses her haughtiness by fixing
I knows lady on co* who *l*™' W ®
pression, and she died because some one mistook
her for a pillar-box and posted a letter down her
throat Mr. Roberts, as Tony, how-
ovor, U becoming an orerwhelm-
lng favourite; and Mr. > Hawkins,
who rigs himself up as a streak of
drunken wreckage and wriggles like
an old nigger In a prayer meeUng,
night. There is no falling* off to
the audiences, either, and “My
crowd as a hanging any day.
** # *
The principal feature of, the
looks as If It wero caked with dirt
and were badly to want of a sham-
poo. Of late there has been a fear-
rough" calculation the 'c*;
panso of open mouth is equal to li
A MIDNIGHT MISTAKE
SMITH (who [?] the public-house lamp, but [?] “I SHAY,
OLE FLER, LESH GO IN AND ’AVE DRINK!"
are stopped wit li gold. There ia also
which Increases as the evening goes
lng^N^S.wToovenior— barring' only the gallows
expression which shines In that^fancUoiMjrjM»
Invented* by Judas Hiscarrots, and when ho had
finished Inventing It he went and hanged hlnwoK.
*.*•'*
“ Diok Whittington and his Cat ’’ at
Sydney Royal Standard is having bettor luck than
usually falls to such exhibitions, and the nightly
rush looks like the charge of a gang of inis-
bionarloj chasing Mr.^Da^ipicr^ [(^ a
lt°certain!y looks an affectionate, flu fly animal
and a good mouscr. Wo beg to drink pussy s
health, and pass on.
## * *
The clerk of the weather has been strain-
ing after effect a good deal of late. Mid among the
hot plaeesUatSaturdaynight, thoSydncy Academy
of Music was conspicuous. It was as warm “f ®
dog stuffed with cayenne, and when Sam Keenan
opened bis areado and sang the Ooepel Tree It
It sounded too much like trying to get humour
out of a corpse ropoelng among the sharks
and whales. . Alf. Moynham expressed In verse
his desire to hove fishy eyoe and a bullet-
niggers—ln short, he would Like to be tui Alli-
gator." Tho boat part of the entertainment, how-
ever, was the “Trip to the Moon, where, amon*
other cheerful incidents, a devil with a trident
impaled each member of tie company in succes-
sion and slung/ him Into the cold realm* of
indeed, an old° party*
dently been gathering an onion to his Inner man,
yelled oat, “Hang Koar," and wanted the whole
job done over again, but his pervortod taste for
pitchforks and brimstone was not gratified.
D’Aroy Read's ghost is running under
new management at Bydney Princess, and looks
as cheerful as if it had nevor lain in a damp grave
with the dew-drops trickling down Its spine.
Ptofossor Liston ventriloquises a little to help out
“ The Vagabond " is announced to speak
a piece “ for the first and only time In Melbourne "
on Friday, his location being the Athenmum Hall,
and his subject “ Cannibals and Convicts.” The
English press, by-the-bys, seems to be abeolutely
bursting with admiration at “ The Vagabond’s "
published adventures.
** * *
Melbourne Opera House is doing good biz.
with ” Little Jack Sheppard." This is the best
thing of it« kind that Messrs. Brough and Bouci-
cault have imported, and brings out the strength
Of their burlesque company. There is something
to lay hold of in " Little Jack Sheppard ” besides
legs. Sometimes it is an extravaganza, some-
tlmos a comic opera, and the whole is divided into
three acts. Miss Fanny Robina, who is a nugget
of the first water, contrives to throw a glamour
around crime by her impersonation of the giddy
little cracksman. Mr. Royce revels In the bur-
glaries of Blueakin, and worthily fills the chair at
a rather frisky “free-and-easywhile Mr. Robert.
Brough upsets all preconceived notion of Jonathan
; wild. A lot of minor talont obtrudes itself. Miss
Haroourt, another
| is something that custom cannot B‘ijlc untll^age
iweafldakmg song between Jaofcand
entertainment. A fair amount of beauty ombeh
Jisheeteeorus. nc _
Fryer’s Circus lias been touring with
tolerable success in South-Eastern Asia. The
company performed before Uie King of Siam at
Bangkok, and that haughty potentate presented
them with a baby elephant as a sign of hlf royal
r* 1
Tho following passage of occurred
again to rehearsal 1" Actress t ” Yes, I was
hiving my hair curled I" Manager : “ Well, you
halt no neod to be present 1"
Somo 16 or 17 years ago all giddy London
flocked to the Alhambra to see Mdlle. Sara dance
a tropical " can-can." Such wo, the ~ gUtty dts-
played by the Colonna troupe. 8"™
was premiere danse use. that the Alhambra lost
its dancing lioense. and the- too enUirpming
manager came to grief. We are reminded of all
this by reading
a London thoroughfare.
The Triumvirate enjoy a pantomime mono-
poly In Melbourne, and the local hnngerwa»d
this particular game in their own hands, tho firm
seem to play it in slovenly fashion. “Robinson
Crusoe," the present “Grand Annual." an
There are
some clever bits of landscape painting, an effective
storm at sea, and a dreamy, high-class ballot In
“ Robinson," but for fun, bustle, and “ go,” our
aunt's funeral beat it in a canter. Perhaps tho
responsibility of much of this thusnoss may be
laid upon the leading lady’s fair young shoulders.
Miss Alice Johns, who represents tho castaway
hero, la bat a slim, angular peg In a big round
hole. Possessed of a well-trained fragile soprano
Miss J. would be a docidedacquisition to a church
choir, or a small glee party, but her talents don t
spread out In the direction of pantomime. 'V hen
she ought to be most en evidence, this very un-
assuming lady has an unfortunate trick of sub-
siding into nothingnoss. In this respect Miss
Alice Johns is unique among burlesque *'-tre«es,
and her peculiarity is fatal. Tho brothers Coghlll
do some sm»rt nigger song and dapee business as
Man Friday and his " Paps,” but their range ot
humour Is limited. Mr. Elton masquerades with
success In “drag." and a Mr. Charles Matthews
clsvorly asserts tho dignity Of men In the char-
acter of a performing donkey. Nobody else does
them appear to feel their position keenly. Miss
Docy Stewart, who can sing a good song, ha' to
stand aside and letber sweetness run to seed. " o
will oancludo our raptures by stating that the
transformation scene Is both beautiful and. holy.
The first part shows us the outside of the Gollloan
“ Little 8hlp“ mentioned In Dr. Watts' hymn.
Next we see the Interior of the Lako, with gold
Osh and schrapper darting hither and thither, and
finally wo get to the bottom Of thej-ftke aqd ex-
press our satisfaction in the usual way. _r;Then tho
Clown apjicars arid Tho audience ilosrty trickles
away to cab. 'bus, or railway station, wondering
who invented pantomimes and what be ought to
get on Judgment Day. • *
•• • •
The story is going the rounds of a baldhcad
who was so delighted with the gifts of a little girl
in a play that ho sent her o fine largo doll to
“amuse her” off the stage. Tho rcply.be re-
ceived ran as follows“ Wo have just rocelved
your note and package ; tbonks
thtekltwUlea nia' 1
***•*' : Jim
The latest definition of a ballet-dancer is
Fibba, alias Dibbs.
Sir Robert Stout says tliat tho Scotch are
ths freest people on the earth. So they are— en
the landlord's earth.
The Right Hon. George Joachim Goscfien,-
who has ratted from tho English Liberals and
taken up with Salisbury's disorgunlsod gang, is
not an Impressive orator. Handicapped with.*
weak voice, his speeches appoar to distress Mm
almost as much as they distress the other peovle.
Prince Waldomar probably refußea to |j
cept the nulgarlan throne because he knows that*
HnMonberg never learut anything worth accepts
log. They are the scavengers of Europe tfc«M
grand cm/uren or a uortui. •»'<»tre ttcicct-00l-
During tho half-year endufL on New
New Year's Eve. thero were 707 failure','!' New
Sjuth Wales, with liabilities amounting close 0 ®
to a mllll n )>oands sterling. Solo by tho Free
Trmlo Association Secretary :
Ttot** srhMV tbemsuer with me * .-****&
B<>me of the downiest of the Newcastle
who came down to Sydney to break the ring
at Tattemail's meeting got plucked bare before
they even reached the courso. They put up at an
accommodation house, and next morning dis-
covered thoy had been "gono through " and that
their united capital amounted to eightecnpcnco.
After tho Mount Rennie affair a number
of tuft-hunters called at Government House.
Sydney, and wrote their names in tho visitors'
book, adding " with sympathy." They didn't say
whit tho sympathy was for. but it Is generally
understood to have been for prisoners hangod on
Iho verdiiH of a sleeping jury, or for the softness
of Lord Carington’s head. Only two collod to
A rumour published by onofot the truth-
one of the reprieved Mount Rennie offenders was
a relative of a well-known Sydnoy man of tho
samo name who interested himself In trying
lationshlp whatever, or. as the gentleman himself
observed," I'm no more to him than Billy the black."
Tho Lyrk. with colour in its face, corrected tho
Tho Commission appointed some time Igo
plated Its work. The report, which will bo pub-
lished soon after tho re-assombling of I‘arlia-
wm show that th# worst features of the English
work-house system, as it existed 60 years ago,
have been adopted in one or two of the asylums'
for the infirm. Many of the aged women who
have boon thrown upon the oharity of the State
have been treated far worse than poople of
avorage kindnoss treat their oats and dogs. Thero
is, however, one set off: religious instruction is
regularly given ta them in practically unlimited
COMPARISON.
6i TONS OK I'APKK


PEPPER
Aan
Salf
*ifh*Pt>le w|th thU. “muTo? 1 God
' »Sl* o»?dunSr-headed old chief I>« *U WJ
nStS *S al'ns X became sweetly saved
One among the
try hi* faith, said, “ Look a here, Sa n. I glvo you
boiUo of ruin for your blble." Sam clutched hl»
liihln dinar but murmured, " ljum l rom ! 1 long-
Imrlv The good old nigger clung to tlio book and
ih«Tk Ids head/ Two bottlos were offered, and
month dripped llko a crushed water-melon.
iVk»t a bright ldoa struck him. Starting for-
ward he dragged u skinny, moonstruck, hoxry
lubm out oT the “push" of native* and said
eagerly, “ Here Hook!
wm nMUnbiK t thonearoßt town trying to trade off
Uytt same biblo for a sixpenny drink. #
“ A number of Canadian loyalist* intend
to colebiato the Queen 1 .
statue of such immense proportions as to put mo
Itartholdt ttatue of Liberty enUrely In tho shade.
Appropriate the project set ms—
For always Monarchy
1 Tho people’s Liberty.
•« 4 wealthy merchant of London has re- |
eently oolebratod a novel kind of golden wedding. j
nowspauers for a period of 80 years, ho in- I
vlLcd tho uroiirittors te a magnlflccnt banquet.
tho perusal of newspapers
hi bUnU.. ”«t «n~hl4
tlona of his long Ufe.’ —Anaus Extract.
The people of Adelaide have just dia-
eorered that 40 tons of M' have keen bowl-
lug for a chance to explode within so\en mile* or
vi- city lor a considerable lime past, and they
ire shaken up a little by the new*. A large
quantity si the pernicious stuff had gone bad and
was stealthily preparing to blow ltaolf up md it
Is calculated that If It hadcarrWl out
trilUn capital couljl have been spread on a porous
plaster and fixed on the back of a very (mall local
saint. There would have peen » mild nixie at
first, a sort of groan, and a shake, and then tno
dsmi and sharks and whales would have been,
blown out of the oefcan. and the oysters Md dog-
AdelMdc. Ul nod' r plous Baptists would have been
struok on the head by eels and
irf B tto B bnX Ul and Uw would*havebiSn
wrecked by fly Wig fragments of ships. buU pupe.
aud*horrok. Wicked |
.Hh their legs 'blown off and Qtffr upper |
»tll] swearing would have been Impaled on
li'Sfflffw-gga-ga'-s:
ss^-issr^sßSS^
hive found themselves aU jammed together
Z£d downwards in the same horse trough ouUlde
the same public-house. The domeeuo^cat^
'’uni.? oriUW * wlth'halfasrram-
pus. three-fourtta of
AdSdSowoold a ruin. Then a huge
tidal wave surmounted by d e“£ bo ™ B “ d
wreck? Md T tha U great and hol 3 r tT °'
a hMbeln hired
for £250 to tako the damaged explosives out to
sL.t'S.yc
croatures." S &a? U obviously Intended as a neat
stab at certain friends of hers on the Sidney morn-
n&Tsn. How artful women are I The morning
Jouraallsta in qusetion certainly «"•
; and ceaseless and restless and eel-like in their mo-
I tlon , y ou never find them remain long on one
side.
The futing buaincl. ia .till going on g»Uy
1» A wi1d.,.4 IWta. whoJ
several times as a screeching maniac in an aayium,
opened the campaign by abandoning earthly vic-
tuals for a month. Another Italian went one
bettor by doing 60 days of hunger and gaunt
misery, and now his rival la going to fast against
a phenomenally stupid Irishman till one of the
psrir caves in or U Interrod.* This branch of
stSetios, howover, scorns really to be getting
overdode Every second Individual we meet is now
engaged trying to do something in so many hours,
MR DIBBS THINKS
THAT SIR TAT IS
NOT' A SQUARE
MAN.
and though there la still room lor new devolop-.
are too fond of sticking to the old Even
who will undertake to make 800 fools of himself
in 800 hours, or who will have 1000 fits of epilepsy
In a week, but no one apparently wants to enter
upon these untrodden paths, or else he can't And
a backer to put up the money. Or if some of
those gentlemen who have vainly trled.to make a
living by aquatics would start to eat 600 geese in
600 weeks and throw the bones 600 miles, the-
profits of the show would be incalculable, ye*,
nobody seems to be on. No doubt some amuse-
ment might be extracted even out of the fasting
mania if the business were properly conducted.
If Mr. Dlbbs, for instance, would back himself to
fast for 50 days.'and then to be struok by light-
ning t or if Sir Alfred Stephen would make all his
relatives in the Civil Service fast for a month, it
would be really instructive and interesting, but as
it is carried on at present the craze Is the baldest,
dreariest, and most stupid affair on record, the
It wns in a butcher's shop in Coljingwood, :
Melbourne. A 'woman weighing about 10 stone
and with an arm ae thick as a baby was buying
how her husband and son were. “There they I
are!" the replied In a tone -of tragic scorn, point-
“ there they are. swillin’ beer like hogs-an' thoy j
expect me to tight the battle of life for them with *
-with !« t»l r Tb» butohCT
bad logs—lf they wore tough enough.
“ it is good for their country thet they
should die ; good for themtclvea that they ohould
Someone, who,is morally inferior to the
beast* that perish, has played a rile triok on the
Irish ProtesUnt Chorch. A fow months ago too
chief scribe of thatTophet suppressing corporation
received a letter from a wicked wretch named
K UUo n sUUng h tH Moore Mexico,
had passed away ou^of'uio^'U^iy ar«L
bringTd
when he reached Denver his language of devotio n
was changed to 10-hotse power profat lty, for 1„
! ssitJttzsrJir-ssz ss&ffi
| glee whea the parson aaked him for the WO.OOOJ
and ho wan'cd the Infuriated canon to shout. tne
j aplrltual piece of artll'ery, however, did not see
the joke at all. and at latest advicoa.the porch la
proaohlngforglvenees. as
don't feel inclined to forgive. #
Tha cry of the London stockbroker is still
heard throughout the land. Even in the Northern
Territory people have pow wakened up. and
whenever they can find a dried-up oow sitting on
float"tho'bumpfnto'a Lmpany with a capital of
£lOO,OOO, while anything, down to a Chinaman',
head itloklng out of a drain, la set down aa an
“outcrop." We don't grudge theae poopla their
good luck, bat the writer of this would merely
submit that ho holda a very large interoat In a
cracked precipice in Central Otago (S.Z.). and
woo Id be glad to placo the same in the hand* of any-
one Who would undertake to float it on the London
market at a good figure Tho propcrty^lvCjHWO^
everywhere^ Indication* that if t broken
•how* froly,"?or h wLn"\ho' olBHt 0 l8Ht proprietor fell off
the property and knocked kis brain* out hi* watch
and chain were caught in a Jagged rook as he
! went whiss'ng down, and they are there yet.
Any epcculator esn sec them with a telescope
from the window of thß public-house. The ground
consist! of 200 aero! standing end-up. The writer
once endeavoured to get a footing on this valuable
freehold M climbing namontaUve fora wealthy
sjndioau, and after making a for the,-?;
property itnd hung on preying: then he felt the'
knifo giving way. and with n piercing yell he
started into space. '
divided into 30,000 shares haWa CT°wn each ; ;
and*after traversing two prospecting areas and J n
hejumped except by a kangaroo in a balloon, and
nobody tO o <:ontest ) Ute^lUo.Jor^theio
pros eot either of a dispute regarding boundaries,
as the adjacent property is owned by a corpse,
and when we offer this, frcohold at £OO,OOO cash
wo oan only request that the London sharebrokers
won't all speak at once.
Queensland boasts of at least one J.P.
who isconsistoni, and endeavours to act “ fair and
square ” according to the best of his ab llty. This
| worthy happens to be a Scotchman, and runs a
1 large wholesale store. One day a noted whisky-
wrestler was brought before him, and on being
i asked what he had to say about his whooping
round the town exploring respectable citizens'
I heads with a waddy on tho previous day replied,
I " I was not so much decently drunk, Mr. M‘T*—.
las I was poisoned with your bad whisky." '"'Ah.
weel, maiuon," said Ihe worthy beak, “It's a’
yer ain faut. > th’jd^n- | m^utpcnay
I guid under haU-a suvcrin' th* bottle. Hooever,
■ Ml no be hard on an uuld I
I Snee then the ll)e. “ tack" has been patronised,
Beochworth (Vic.) mustJ»e a bad, bad
thfcTto to ho believed Wc cut out tbs
following slices from a lyric of bis published in
This is pretty rough, but it is not half so rough as
""ip 0 - S<^ 0m ~|Ith 1 th th"jj >oU * h ‘-
“Asthey d-n please!" would have been more
expressive and appropriate wo think, but it dees
not become us to be hypcrcr^kal^^when^UgW
n'ev«r <I tho^ghl 10 inuch i the morality of Beech-
worth, having onco beep there. \Ve bad no Idea
that it was so many lips ahead of Sodom in the
race to Sheol. Bat -nnlawful thought strikes us
—perhnps Becchwort t A Sheol!
TO THAT MERCHANT.
Oh, you wealthy London merchant, what*dear
betray your dull belief In
When outof admiration for the journal* that you
It 1* not at all surprising, wealthy merchant, for,
Kor dot/t yoi reap tho beneflt of other peoplo's
Exaouj, : merchant, wo havo studied you
of yore- .
rou always thank keeper whon you hear the
Wh*kßobto° D actor, warms your withered
toiSStoSSll OlovMM.l Ol
.ksaee.
row care not for tho thinker of tho thought* set
up In typo, „ linnn hu
For the man who plays so cunnlng.y upon hli
merry pipe- . , .. . V(lr
But to him who runs tho paper or the c-o\o
T °“^p“uo r . " >n '
Could you marshall now boforo you all the literary
Who hate catered for your pleasure—would you
Those i*or Ink-slUging Ungers would you oonde i
acend to touch 1 ,
Ah I we doubt It, wealthy merchant, doubt It
v«ry. very much. -A - - t* —|
Vo matter— you’re consistent In the way you play
Were wo a wealthy merchant we would do the
ißdpSoS’V* “ C.PIUI ; unUl thfttbappr
We’lUust relieve our feelings with allttlodogg’rcl
[?]
[?]Poor men they walked to the gallows-tree]
IfitbS cfiSS b» high-With glee
And they tremblod with delight-
Trembled end shook In their boots end shoes,
Hoad, Merlin, Duffy, end Boyce,
The sight of the beam end the gladsome nocee
Made all tMr souls rejoice.
Korall of'thelot had been brought to see
Good for tholr country and good lor them,
And good for good Canon S.;
But for Nosey Bob. who performed the yob,
It was goodest of all-0 yes 1
So here's to the beam and the deadly drop!
Here's to the dangling rope I
The Canon’s delight and the oountry s prop—
e’er forget
'Twill be good for thorn and for ut-you bet!
To stretch their sanctified necks.
A lay of Now south wal[?]
APOTHRO[?]IS OF THE DUIK
It was the Lord of Barringbun,
Sprig of a peer and a very big gun,
A governor bold was he.
And he settled him down In Sydney town
In Sydney by the Sea.
A pleasant plaoe Is Sydney town,
Duck of a harbor —some renown
In Austral history;
But Sydney’s pride, all else beside.
Was its high sassicty.
Ary* -v»..!.*Barringbun,
3prlg of a poor and a very' big gun.
Twould gather, awhile to bask In the smile -'J
In the good old days gono by.
Both C.M.O.’s and B.Q.P. S.
A score such as thoie-thoir titles pleaao
A day was at hand, when another land «
Would claiiu thernoble lord.
And*:i°own, W whme*dSd^d'^eslw
“Alas 1" cried Jones. “ and w mUrnU juljflH
And shall l never kiss that too,
Jones. “Kme .II.M r&ne.V
Of the noble Barr, may Sydney seek _ ■
Bethink you. noble Sir,
A shirt perchance or a pair of pants . •
A generous soul war Barringbun,
He soon was gone ;
Boggses and Bloggses. worshipped the tegses
Which hung, as ’twaa but meot.
In the halls of departed Barringbun,
\fny illumine Ibe west when his oouim Is done
They went away,—where f— society neer
Could even guets, but they disappeared.
And Jones, who made his money in hear.
And Brown, whose dad did something qo« r -
Began to pine away ; ,
And the C.M.Q.’s and the IL<J.P. s. , v,
A settled sadness appeared mee to
Or oven laidUige In tho usuai D’s "
Ever after that fatal day. y«yuiJ


PERSONAL ITEMS.
fWjours»»»'»" *k?}“!;,.' iila.ysi;
-\zti £»
“‘jilrn Norton^
SS'AtS'puSt" °”^ 4 ,or U ‘° “ l “ pt
The Harniy is being Too-
SSS: thT ° Wn
ai —s*.
ofdaiiy toil. pro-
&SKS ?££?ES
the pulpit and otherwise-atd
°°Thus the Northern Minek :
BE>te ®fSt < ?fn?ad h Sr^
Cer W °
One Sydney Government official ™>nly
applied UUU head on tho^daj
SustTedwdth Ike refusal,
he interviewed tho heal of tho department, and
was granted the rcqu'rcd leave. of the
evening papers published a list of these
hanging—and thua gave him clean awa..
An individual, who views piracy with com-
*achting l wlth^om^rlondato Samos atone
tiine.and tho pu-ty suddenly revoiu'.edthatw^n^
and “ ubl ‘ o , l t ' e g d what^J3s oS!
SSSSSfa BriSh "!tow?.he* foto
i buccaneers, and shelled the bottom out of
lt °‘ C \Vhat 1 did when I wns Mayor,’’ would
lUi’SSttm/' recently Polishea by Mr.‘John
Young. Beyond magn 'ying «Hohlevementa or
Mr. John Young and abusing Mr. Joni j oung »
opponents, it is difficult to see wr at in t
effort is likely to achieve. But in doti g inc.c two
tblngi it will probably secure dll the objects wjucn
Mr. John Young contemplated wliile occupied in
Its compilation.
A very pious Southerner whoso name has
loag figured in a' 1 the " , u “
ffimini?; i;snpSsiS™iuu SSS
P»blt “a »«“»*• h t”
led up to tho usual climax For
keep these little back sliding* from iho publlo ear,
but the ungodly heard, rejoiced, and spread the
Our dear old clerical the “butlr>.
rate* theyallego as much, and that is the sarno
thing. An old lady who had been on crutches for
20 year* pretented herself them for cure,
jjr. D stated that the lady s leg was not so
‘Dunedin EvKN
wen, Tour' r ° Un
.The Australasias, in a recent review on
••Cannibals and Convicts” refers to the curious
« oolncidencothat Marcus Clarke, BruntonStopheis.
and Julian Thomas tave^hjcU*i
;t"Th'e Vagabond" in tho book
i other Stephens and
Julian Thomas! Shakespeare. Milton, amd Douglas
VBydncy Lancers I Gibbon. Hun c. nnd David Blair!
Demosthones. and Jawbono Nc.ld I"
K Apparently thore are more points about
Koorhouso than anybody In Australia evor
tof. According to a Melbourne paper his
JP now
le'back'ysrd'amftotiTuoes him to another
Stomal cf tho same species. Thon the two anl-
Htt rlr‘ Ch M am± raterdna ces rotind and cheers •,
Ews’ji's 21
jX’jtorne paper quite omits to state lto authority for
it-j&fiu Mary Jane Hicks was oridonUy
HKtfor an actress. When she was consigned
lathe hospital after tho Mount Rennie aflklr she
««A to have a little fun at night hy slicking her
! on end and then silUqg up and jelling.
*Oh| help! there's a dozen men in tho room !
Whoop! Murderl” This evoked sympathy at
tot. buttbcacuto matron presentl£ * jj >c °?£j™j
aorecohvd the hair off tlireo other patients ft
began u 1 grow monotonous. At last tho long-
suffering boss of the poultice and broken-leg
establishment struck, and wnlkirg quietly over to
the shoulder. "Look here, my gcod girl," she
•aid, "if you make that nolee woll have to put
dead silence °to the ward, and from that moment
the heroine screamed and saw visions no more.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Mr. G&rvan, tho N.S.W. Minister of Jus-
tloo, has declared for Protection.
Look on this picture, and on this : —“ The
Duke ot Cumberland's gold and silver plate weighs
month for be log lUogally on the promises of
the swill out ot a plg-troughl"
Tho Conservatives in England undoubtedly
damos of the Primioto League. And the damei
are aware of • he circumstance, therefore they have
A BUTTING SCAPE-GOAT.
threatened to revolt of'“the
pSlffr bS
The Distinguished Service Order, a gor-
gcoua gold cross display j£^al^rown
service " must be of a naval
I or military description, other wise Burdett Bmttn
might he Induced by Albert} ictor to aocei i
recognition of that aifhlr with tne can ic «
quarie-street, Sydney.
' “Two million Martini-Honri
;• vintoria f 8o says the Bydney E\ eni.no .noosk.
hut then the Noosf. can't distinguish between a
ride and a rifle cart ridge-two quite different
things. We would take the liberty of
our somewhat unclean con Mr
}SS Sootlh si!.'
maker located in Edinburgh.
Mr. J. P. Abbott resigns from the N.S. W.
Parliament beeAUio ho Is dlsvusted wUhUioooiV f
Abbott s miaoon uc Uwjth thB Freetraders has
tt-'nisw wm a grave political scandal,
Mr. Richard Hodaett, ono of
gaagga^srS££
I hMoiStM he Is also an advocate of dpin- j
gag#
SSSjKSAi- «S i~»»- & -
those who may oppose him. .
VWwJj,
general^® death ho^reacbe*
muter!®lf ho is’auKuglishmon, generally monagei
to go‘suns work out of him-Dr. Farr's figures
nothwltttatan ling. We hsmrtaiown old patri
arch-< who might pjrhupi hare bi'n a \oaaoW2s
theiXmp'loyers, Md Vho"dledVharnees at the
rite of 7a. a wook. But tho atapjndous Joke is
this. Accordng to tho same authority, the wages
of tho English agricultural iaboaror are £4o^P«r
the with the tribes
of Judah they could hardly bring up a family of
Reynold’s. Newspaper, liWo every^otlier
" A«rd phllaaopheri, and hairUw dulaa,
Pimlico and women from Belaarla, wuUn in Unra and
ssss ?av« dSKifS i A3at. l su&ya is
ia»
cr»tl
f,^SK o gXj?ggg^ft^gS
drt£u Jc drunk. tboj»nd« «. c d j£^ f : lr %£? eafleHrd
£"»•» O thouUd^b^*C--l«'*rtJ-«*
whom arc children. BM7 t^cUttrVof
1 §3s3s^lggi££Si
K~ i Sifcira^ u ag.gS
FSSS£isia
isiCsrTarrSs'^S-^tFS
55w°niMUrf wanU something unique. Well. lt
Is hero, and tW display would be worthy 0IJ»
j »"u^lfw£, cioOio. h .Vi<^u«^
the IwwMOattagU »» U 1
In hi. ».w work, Major-General A. W.
| DrafO. I* U
: iriomS »“ tT.rd.7S i‘«».h.
.(jfloito stating that the Individual was
; sTSSSi S-* - ■>»”
j travelling in the Himalayas, In wild ni^nc^
! , f TjlTj*S®
Aanld be "paid to my bankers. In reply I to-
: c jiyed a communication stating that my
I fiiMt would be credited U> me. ****J*£
icos no certificate lo prove that I was at •«
June and July."
BRIEF MENTION.
Huijtaiid—Nome Soulb ■
To .loop woll.-0»- to chucch -
Tho milky *.w- To *■“ »
Thomas 0'“*"" B° l Uircm-Jay. in Mol.
b ° u ™’ °j;,, rrsz" *"■"*«>
. . hearse was run down and wrecked tajr
tr*m-c\ri | n Melbourne, tho other day.
V From Melbourne Herald :— “ Jamca
sulcldo.” And yet they tell us theig
,r We congratulate our esteemed fellow-
twr man 01111,0 deith of hu uncle,” omlldl/
N.Z. paper. Thst esteemed fell >w-tovraa»
waa sold for £BOO per foot in
Melbourne. thsy a portion of It In their
•onp would Jf" nsXj °bJ«ot..
""“Boy
~»lv" PS'Skn-Ph-in
whi<A the seal of A^ 1 ddWjhtejji. *
At Fitzroy Folloti lias
b»» toiler'hsrlw *«>«*■ hat
Z,„.X Th,, .aa-t hr»k »&««*». »
any oth»r to ai foolery la Vlctoris, mind you. *•?-«
A hari-featured girl at Horsham (Vic) is
In trooble through knocking tho back of her
mother’s head ofT with an axe. Tea ol«l WJtnan
is etUl alive, but It 1 1 noce nary to write ol about
10 per cent, for depreciation.
Ah Wong summoned Yong Key at Cturle-
ville (Q.) for assaulting him The wltnowoj wore
Ah Mosk, Moag Blog, Juni Qw, Sai G>», oUm
Ah Gow. and Douah. y The C. P.B, had a beautiful
Um- of It. Hs h»s nnt yet recovered.
An Auckland paper believes that larrikin-
lam Is due to “ the absfctioe of occasional wallop-
ing at schooL" Perhaps. In that caio, It would bo
a gold Uns to wallop tho Minister for Education
in order to make him look after the bav.nojs.
It is found that Australian girls have such
a decided 0^® o n°“ 1 to h t^ n f o U b 3 V lmpD- h Md v f
Thereat OTly one remedy for thU.Sar-
dinai Moran must Import a few nlcs-lpoklng
priest a
If the Agents-Goneral want a good adver-
tisement of the prosperity of Australia
copy this—” Aehearer o oook on the Castleroogh
ordered twelve pairs of ooUon soc ts from Ooo;
1 namble to make wicks of for ihe slush-lampi
ThU l* as true as gospel. • B *
There were in N.Z. 330 accidental deaths
during the year 'B3, according to. a ikimewhnt:
Go A” That leaves 323 deaths to ba attributed to
the visitation of somebedy else. i
Mr. Edward Jatnicson. who livca swnc
whore neat- Kden (S'.aW.) hat a
prize of *2 for the beat condact«d3^W|^ta
s%sz sjjHpig-
The “ Reasonable -
of a new sect in London. They WOk tJswnvne I to
distinguish thomselvee from the *' Hanging Chris-
tians” who are always looking around for some-
body to string up cn a gallo ws—somebody that Is
toonoor tosubicribe to their tfertSyprebo,
therefore, ought to be sont to Ktngdom*fcws/
To show the spirit in which the Sydney
only 8 the ||r
morning,^rose^'to'"perform tho hopelei task of
addressing tho sleeping jury, was
noticed by-tho daily newspapers. »
I This is the style of war-articleswritthn iu
North Qaeensl»nd No one
lightning-heralded typhoon of v^f/
1 forth, and what oourse it will take In its destruc-
tive career. Even as we write tho air seems
charged with sulphurous fumoi of angry pas dons,
whleharo osoondlng and mocking higbfHeaven,"
The S.M. Herald announces a statement
by n French scientist to tho effect^ that if a person
hn*vrlU noUco adistlnct oscillation, tho star n»ov-
tog in swift curvon There i* nothing nasTTn
this. The samo phonomemon has been constantly
noticed ever since men first began to come homo
late from ledge-meetings.
Sir Sawmill Griffith created a little plea-
sant excitement In the Queensland Assembly tbe
Reans we understand, will be taught thoroughly,
and the rudiments of the pumpkin will also be in-
cluded In tbe curriculum, *" First class in artifi-
cial manure, stand up and lay your turnips.
A fow day* ago a genuine myall king was
standing at tbe window of the Cairns (Q.I tele-
gruphotllce stariog like * stuck .at the instru-
" Masev’ whatfor that pfelledgo Uck. tick, boy r
"That’s the Brisbane man talking to Townsville,'*
replied the llghtning-grjndtr. " sald^^tho
jutMiko.’im ole gin."
A Melbourne paper, speaking of tho cacapo
poxlng somewhere in these colbules “it
is surmised he absconded from the Quarantine
: that°U Just where all the trouble oomss In.
1 If ho had left his togs behind It might havo been
j possible to identify him by his shin, or something
ofthe sort, hut when he is merely described as an
I ordinary-looking man with clothes he gels lost la


The Bull-Goats of Politics.


The “Popular” Governor.
[?]


Society
Aj the bush belles of Australia have but a
dhner 9 looks (in a tall white hat, the language of
amongu them. To make up forthU, however,
p£»«i»g t to To loan “o uH'lelT "I wUI not
‘ encourage you." To tap the girrup with point of
• “ Young ladies' schools in Paris," says the
S.M. Hkk*U>, " aro not strictly what they should
The Church of England has a fashion
pocullar to Itself Of elovaUng the masses. On last
Christmas Day carols were perform'd at st.
Andrew’s Cathedra], Hydney, the niude and word
log of which could scarcely have satlsfl d " tho
ear polite. n Wegiveafow specimens of choice
Bat sniost tbs ntz t iaornias oar lisrlour w u lum "
" And lssrn «• from thsom hsofht, prid- t„ to .huu -
Possibly it is to avoid a show of haughty prldo
the masses. But we wouldsuggost that with this
r*>~»TT set to snitablo music at tho Cathedral and
O hem bin! and Handel oorncUy interpreted at a
certain ILC. Chart*, it is small wonder if tho
clergy of the orthodox faith hear oj more perverts
than converts.
A uian in Now Zealand has just separated
■ uru>j,T *’. Sipll. . .
At MarybotkNtgh (Q.) a fortnight ago, tho
swimming bath broke away from its moorings,
and drifted peacefully down the Mary lUver.
About 25 females were screaming for holp inside.
They were all young aud beautiful, thoy were all
wet'and had their back hair down, and they were
they hesitated. But there was no other resource,
so they had to go-In batehes. and. wr-rte still. In
lUihabitle and makc tho best of It. Luckily tho
mariifdr was very much married.
When th* sons of the Prince of Wales
Consul to-
gether with the cream of tho English and American
colonics, to dine at his house. It was a very swell
gathering. Toward the end of tho meal the host
rose from hh ohalr, took a glass of champagno in
his hand and, addressing the Princes, spoke as
ruolhyl/ col .!,o 1
More blue blv->d ! Among the passengers
An engagement is announced in Sydney
between a diiughtcr of Mr, G. Norton Russell, of
Pclhami Hall, Woolahra, and Mr. Bullock, a recent
Wives whoso husbands have a penchaut
and dancing sand-jigs on their prostrate forms!
would do Well to copy tho coramou-ronse conduct
scfleThenslf by reading over his old love-letters
commencing, “ My dearest, darling, little angel.
Minnie, boavenonly knows tho depth of my lovo
London Lxdy declares that “ Black silk
stockings with low shoes are now worn for ladles’
fall dress In New York." We don't quite under
stand this ium, but suppose that the stockings
are worn high-necked., Otherwise tho costume
would appear to bo somowhat Insufficient.
Sir William Clarke did a lot of things in
Yurrup bcsidoi planking down 100 guineas for the
Queen's box for the opening of tho •Colonies''
Exhibition. Sonm of the baronoCe hard-cornel
Buddha," by Chevalier, and a rousing" Sjuinish
of the big house now n-bulhling. Lots of
tmWorld will be shortly witched with pictures
of Sir William's supposititious ancestors in various
cxcitingrittmtlons. ;^V^shalj^Bse^hl^g^andi^Uier
crusader wiping his iron boots on Snladln, and
the real original founder of tho family assisting
Moses down Mount Sinni with tho Ton Tables.
s. From a story which has boon 1 going tho
' rounds in Sydney It would seem that Lord Caring-
' ion, though he likes to patronise eslonlal genius,
doesn't like to patronise it too-much. The other
evening nn sllegcd comic opora (strictly original)
, he libretto whereof teemed with delicate allusions
lo “liver" and " lights" nml " perspiration " and
other subjects of ordinary Potts' Point drnwing-
• nom conversation, was produced at Government
House, Sydney. It now seems—some old story !
that the expenses of staging the play amounted to'
considerably more than was anticipated by the !
satjtnfaayr * sp i
over his cheque for, ay a third of the total coat,
deems such a coni ributlon on his purl amply suf-
ficient—thus leaving the rest of the burden to fall
upon tho shoulders of the loyal sons of song by
whom Sydney sassloty ha* boon Introduced to the
mysteries of slaughter-house opera.
-A registry-office record. Lady (engaging
female cook): “ You must excuse mo. but I don't |
allow any fringed or curlod front* to be worn.
Mary Ann (familiarly): "Oh! oerUngly not,;
ma'am-; it ain't quite th' proper thing, I knows,
but, y' see, some on us Is a keepln' on wearln' of
it till Lady Caringtou changes. And she do her
tome old fashln' notions, don't sho »"
There is a solid Sydney churchwarden who |
frqm henceforth and for
ful 0“ the* 10 '' working gtrFj a jury
Just as the faith of Jurymen has been similarly
say Coogee, and when he decided to live with his
:wntßdanuiBl(nr."Btlt'taea«murc ouesubscquently
objected to remaining there by hericlf, so he
hired another very comely and marvellously sedate
maiden to keep hor company. Theh everything
seemed to go on satisfactorily, forathls periodical
afternoon visits tho demuro ones professed abso-
house. Bnt a few nights before the family
tho evening and what he saw then fully explained
why the incumbent of his churcllQmd shunned
him as an opponent of capital punishmont would
avoid a hanging Judge, and why he had fallen
in the estimation of his fellow churchmen lower
lhan Nymageo shares on tho Sydney market.
He had oxpocted to see two mfcdcst women
there, but although of women
has pretty well paid up all the bills'forfgbods
supplied to tho establishment, and the police
threat of prosecution for keeping a disorderly
but as ho reflects on tho irretrievable damage bis
reputation has suffered, he invariably conoludes
by expressing a Arm conviction that it would have
been bettor to have put a flrestiok under the house,
or to hare put a millstone about it and cast It
Into the sea than to have left .It in charge of
[ that demuro and modest maiden of hitherto
Irreproachable moral character.
At Wyndham, Northern Territory there
Is a sergeant of police who eoerni to bo a* dis-
agreeable as senna and more raspy than an old
bull porcupine. He was particularly fond of
another man s baby, whlob he carried about at^all
gusted at tho dry-nursing policeman, and louts of
: 18 or so began to Inquire of him !f he would like
,to adopt an orphan. But things went pretty
1 quietly until the local publican walking
' clout, and imploring the squashed bell-U>pptr aod
the rag to be a good'child sictp.^ Then
| can In for oonduct caloulatetMo came a breach of
I bottle or if bo propoiod to run a baby-farm, and
Professor Chainey and Mra. Chainoy are
lon of physical culture," It Is
a expression, and a graceful attl-
the earning husband has to be combed down onoe
in a while like hts poor predecessor It may as well
be done In style.'
Australia may shake hands with itself and
dunce (on something) at tho thought that as yet
only two bsronetcles hare been shot at it. Here
is Lever's (a. gentleman's) opinion on the Irish
knighthoods of 80 yea-s ago. Ho puts the follow-
ing Into a grout lawyor's mouth (not ''mug," hi
also Is a typical gentleman) :-
v" X~-? 0n ' 1 w “ i “Tthlog from theta people, Minin.
CRUSHED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bo was Percy Fitzbyron, a clork In the Lands,
Whose sire would “ cut up ” for Hvc thousand a j
In tho twilight’s concealing dim hour
To his darling, who dwolt at tho Point known
All my feelings to stoop to disguise,
We are perfectly hlddon by—pardon mo
From tho sight of your father's stem oyes ;
“ To discourse of tho passion that burns in my
OtT° "tl * yC toYki ftr ° Bi " l|,ly divi l no ! u f j
" With her Porcy's Augusta! Some others ore
They are p3e Citations—lwmimate tilings,
Earth will be e'en as Heaven
above.
Nothing sordid will vox us
No fatherly wrath
Will you by this
i I will guard you from everything UL
I Fightliig n back C from your way'all life’s trials and
lioins.
i And tho happiest slaro ovor bound in Love's
“ In a beautiful homo by ottr beautiful bay
Wo will dwell, and our dwelling will be
A pure Temple of Lovo, and each long sunlit
Be <la h to Ili ' d
And tho years will ho only a sorlos of springs !
11 Than'si:!
Wretched minutes and entrios. and many a
Of replies I illegibly write
To benighted selectors on matters of land.
And as yet dare not ask your proud sire for
your hand.
pardon the slang-
But os soon as I've conquered
your angry sire's frown
I will let tho Department go
And, although I'm hot wealthy
my lineage Is high.
For my people come over
with-Govcrnor Bligh
I've what's Just as gixsl
Maybe bottcr-a high-toned
Is in me, ho will quickly
tilings,
veins from a sories of
“ Yes, my darling,- my peerless! on blood I
rely"—
And tho bald sire crouched listening near.
In a torriblo undertone growled ‘ so do I ! ’
And kept grinning from car unto ear
To the kennel where Cain, ihe dread wolf-dog,
With'!!?* 1 chained
strained 0 1 3 "* "" hl * coUar strn P
' 1 , hln ; , i' VO,, b r ,mrd l** l *' oB3 slr «.,
Horu "^ hcr voico cric<l , out ,n tones wild and
And tiie wolf seized tho rear of^s*taUor-made
A l'h lnB - 3 ’i f
THIS
WILD
WORLD
Seven kanakas arrested for riot at Mary-
borough (Q.) hud knuckle-dusters In their poeSes-
elon. Verily, civilization is bslng knuckled into
in Maryborough (Q.) on one day last week. Each
*5 At Tumut (N.8.W.), on Boxing night, a
got only one Christmas box, a Jar of ginger, and
that was from a Chinaman At Palmerston
(N.T.) they want Chinamon to carry lanterns
after dark. Their sento of smell must bo dead up
there if they can't tell a Chinaman oa a foggy
night when he comes oround the hen-roo»L A
gold-bearing reef has been discovered in Queen-
street, Brisbane,, on the site of the new buildings
now being erecte'd for the Brisbane Newspaper Ccrr
tary didn't striko. brains instead of gold T>e
Sydney unemployed will shortly be happy. The
statue of her Most Gracious Will shortly smile
down on ‘hem and remind them of n loyalty that
wiirsatisfy their hunger They are vory humble
people in Mudgee. N.aW. Only six hands were
held up at the Barmy meeting to signify they
wore on their way to hpaven One hundred and
four cases in bankruptcy dealt with by Judge
Ward on a single day at Auckland, N.Z Ball,
on a chargo of murdering Capt. Cain. The brand
of Cain in this case also is antimony.
A contest is taking place in Madison
for the Senate Tho former's busi-
ness partner supports the latter candidate, while
Badley’s wife canvasses for PricketU Prlckett's
son swears he'll vote against his father. Bailey
distributed ten gross of teething-rings, while his
opponent ail the babies in the electorate.
to your Keep your digestion goad.
Steer clear of biliousness. Exercise J Go slow
and go easy” "A Manitoba aetthfr sold his
wife and live children for 70doL" Bel then went
and sold the 7,0d01. for grog "The Bulgarians
only bathe twice—when they are born\and when
blood English papers are chuckling over a
ghastly story of a drunken man who, taking the
pany with a dead body. It Is absurd that
an Englishman has no sense of humour The
on November 9th cost £ll3 "A rsnt in the
cloud " is the only one the Irish landlord tees now.
seasick, bnt I'm disgusted with the motion of this
vessel." “Is this the right train 1" sho asked.
picking up her thirteenth parcel with her left toe.
" Where are you going ma'am " None of your
your imperence to the stationmaster."
The bandy-legged man's seldom struck with
. t
Because he ain't built that way.
Murder as one of the floe arts. A Frenchman
found that his temporary wife hid another tern-
trusive wretch.' Then he made the girl take off
her dress and lie down, while ha tattooed on her
naked shoulders and arms the name of the mur-
dered man and a few interesting facts regarding
tho corpse, together theories as to the
Skating is becoming fashionable in Mel-
bourne, we read. So. by the way, Is oourt-ploster.
Grant Allen, in tho Fortnightly Review, j
asserts that tho instincts which prompt men aud ?
erring There would scorn to, gonulne j
cvldencd in support of his view.
A gentleman with heavily-insured pre- J
mises recently realised his policies thusly: Ha J
placed a kcrou-no lamp on tho t.blo inside a wire- 1
he turned a dozen‘hungry cats into tho room. jj
What tho daily papers term a “ peculiar*
'aflSdr ’ r 'liSi 'juK off at Goulbum (X.S. WM
According to the report of three unclean andja
degraded almond-eyed wretches from Sliangh^H
gentlemanly woman taking a horse from thefejfl
stable. One of them yelled out, “You stcaleefl
'"hl^h'lh 1 ' an scuff* r * n 1110 —«
with stones, thoy made a capture.* Then therfc
found that their prisoner was a well-known reaK^
hood. Ho wore a lady's dress and hat, and he
hail on a lady's pair over his own ordinary pair,
which made his aspect rather piebald when the
dross was taken off. The prisoner, however, ex-
plained in oourt that he had simply put on the
lady’s pair In order to go bathing, which he was
apparently in the habit of doing without taking
his own pair off, and he had gone into tho water
prenimahly/wearlDg the hat and the other fixings,
wnen he was assaulted by the Chinamen and
forced to run. He had witnesses, too, to swear to
his good character, and as none of thorn had ever
eon him In female attire before, he got off, bat
o didn’t wear tho lady's pair outside as he went


[?]
ML* wa , tlio causo of **:’■ "252
bun* th»t t' n ' el " 8^ C r n l ll y homo In the
mm
to"' toff
ilfil
§§
|HS^pi'
IsSMiiSS
I answered. ' And where do you think theyere
ring!'said ho, with the air of one who gives
conundrum ho knows you cant solve. Wlt hoot-
wiling for a reply he pointed to a.pipe at Uio^end
SllHtif
A SYONEY OPERATIC SENSATION.
ITnROUOU the kindness of the gifted composer we
„”ch ■* JS?. “Tt’i'
K which will bo found worthy of ,
will 'we understand, shortly be pro-
d“ca b>- tk. Wioi
I sssj'ii u."wi i
; “SisrSiSiK" 1 "
I 1 “wQxiatn \akts*P the allegro (heme and the
\ ft'tnkdP'r «<*»“>-•-
! •• Bui if joure on for thq miking of s msUh,
‘ ™Tl°l£ U row,
j A Bo th« lo*er'n«>r p>edfrowp^ t
' SS^fSsSSfe-
HOW ALLIGATORS
Tho [?] to bathe, with the head of the family [?] by
[?]ly of [?] look on.
h f** “"'iTpork-
SH3k«!jW2^,»
licU gi™™' extension of their hours, or «» r *j
usual athletlo pursuits, and .£dvftlu»ble
mlss*d trophies. They
prises In the w«T « J u « I
sing ft spirited chorus - \
••OhOop*h«d»ndJM«>ln».»i>dOo- \
jmt think h"» u* f,Uow * ,0 “„
. You don't *l»esasthlet«s show
. i ,w„ m that. at brains have long since
Bosch a f, “}Jow South Wftles »nd muscle
£ on °.!£r?*'thelr piloo, their proper course ls to
present the matter to Lord obtain
* Bhof i 6^nmet «?*them m Well leftre
thattheirftbwmoe would
bi noticed. TbU tolo U, the Mr of "The Natty i
Jar M l* tott fine.
T?fhB < ulifM» i w»M^di* l) '3«IIdTl? tbelo
ptue> jQ’i unierataud.^to
Th^jnl!of.-be.nl«i'they'd non,of>m bemU«d.“
“^pSl^JSSthJ
Then follow* some brilliant
enter,
| Lord Carlngton dressed “ JJ I !'*' 01
Sydney ‘ ^B com -
th. Sydoey How-
B i»t> D
SSWrSTra ™ rou throat.
It'wouldn't go through, do you *ea
B |'or the honorary colonelcy.'
The deputation than addrew hla Excellency on
loncy! Bewh. w^g^’ywgnlfl^^
7 Th^SnVbS’thi't!S? U .
And the eoane concludes with a grand dance and
P °Thnn«*soonodltoloaei * running-ground with
Spas*- :
s 5 fStSS'S*" ” “ - **
a
ilillElf
“ galD ’ " W i”d b lh^oX n :*“• B
filial
wss^=;”T^”
i(Si joot


J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYIXNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF SPRING GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prioes.
"iissiii'sS
m
£rnS'£
nr to be bear!? perfect. ■
“jAina a WAfao.;.
fcEfioXs
Ss
g.s s
l.*s
1, s
nTS,s;
ra^SsESssKS
ORIENTAL;
GOLD;
j tUor, psiseitlsg ibt met lsttrt, toi-‘7
I nd «ndimc*oflt«rUif Gsl4.
**ll2 POMEROY CHAMBERS*
OASTLEREAG.H-ST., Sydney, ha»
hr;« gcuigasoeU tf than lgrtlf goedi, vMeb Vtaf
ssU*t i frietla of tbs coat of SUrlhg Osld Imllay.
Ko eso eu detect tbo lifmci. Send for a
Priced Catalogue, erfer cnecftbefcl-
lnriag samples, ill of Orintil Sold—
Brooches, Bs.; Jewelled (Parisian
Brilliant:) Brooch, 7s. 6d.; Gent’s
Albert, 7s. Bd.i Pair Ear+lngs,
Plain 55.; Jewelled, 7s. 6d.; Locket
lOs-; Ladles’Alberts
15s. P. 0.0. payable Oriental Gold
{2J"TTe send t heap on approval. Ifthef don’t
please, return uninjured bj the Pint
Kail, an d ne repaj the caih.leta postage.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD GO.
12 POMEROY CHAMBERS,
OASTLEREAGH STREET.
I tent anywhere br port.
R.I.P.—Rot in Peaoe. r V
Water bores—Chaffey Brothers.
Strangled—Capital punishment in N.S.W.
A fire at Carcoar(N.S.W.) burnt the house
of one Hades. It must have been hot.
It is now stated that Mrs. Battenbcrg’s
baby will open the Adelaldo Exhibition.
“The Mount Rennie outrage ! ” shrieked
“Two hundred Australian sheep have
been presented to Italy.” Tltiss are plentiful in
Italy.
“Tho Empress of Gormany is about to
“Wales,” an American lady, a cheque*
Love has been elected captain of the Par-
ramatta lire brigade. This is a mistake. He
Scone : London Hotel.—Fair American
fpHE above Is a faithful Ukcnoss of the man
H«JS a gentleman and a scholar, speaks several
languages, and has got the biggest foot in Aus-
H. I. nrj wealthy and good-looking; has
plenty of friends, but his clothes doesn't fit him.
Hehos completely used up every profane word
In OMi colonial and other languages, still he is not
He rays t&ere is enough thoroughbred agony and
hellish torture In his foot to kill evory sinner In
He has been a Member of Parliament, a Minister
.Of the 'Crown, and an Aldennao. but docs not
remember having done anything to deserve his
Be has always been devout; and at one period
of hi* life a Government contractor.
He has tried all tho doctors and nearly every
He tells everybody that trying to cure rheu
mat Ism Is like frying to shovel wind off the roof.
T„T>,“ ZS. il'i'
He Is sadly mistaken. It is a fact that a remedy
IhM found .WhJfih-relieves and. cures rheu
matlsm. Just as sure ah the sun shine i In tho
•It goes right to the spot. It cures when every-
thing else ha*faded. It ponetrntos to tho scat of
the disease. It is Simple. -It-is safe. It Is cer.
Mr. Jamoe; .Marlow, merchant tailor, 11,
time, and suffered eeveroly both In health and
pocket. He tried all sorts of remedies without
obtaining relief, until he got St. Jacobs Oil, when
“ the first application gave me Instant relief, and
lam thankfuljto say that I have not experienced
the eUghteet symptom of pain ever since."
London, was declared Incurable at throe hospitals.
■palm*"
MaurioeJD. Benjamin, Esq. Importer and whole-
-011 eradicating rheumatism; but as I have
practically tested 1U efficacy. I can honestly state
it has wonderful rheumatic healing qualities.'
Henry Ricketts, -Westbnry, Gloucestershire, was
''pronounced Incurahle at Bath Hospital. His
j After pracUoaUeste on invalids In hospitals and
1 elsewhere. Bt. Jacobs Oil .was awarded sir gold
< mred people who had been crippled from pa la for
'' • William OUeohlojK" 'a. stoker, belonging to
; pn account of his dreadful suffering, from rheu-
f patlsm. He says: “I have perfectly recovorcd t
1 3HARLKB A. VOGLEH COMPANY, of BALT I
Utf ,RE. MARYLAND, UNITED STATES of
| AMERICA, proprietors of St. Jacobs Oil, or by
accredited local representatives, to any por-
on producing proof tu the offoct that tho testl-
. aonlals published by them In regard to Su Jacobs
' 1 "HI are not strictly genulno.
hr .*
i
I gold by all Chemists and Storekeepers every-
V Price, HALF-A-CROWN.
Depot for New South Wales
’ V ELLIOTT BROTHERS and CO., Limited.
; SYDNEY.
A CRUSHER. .
LITTLE BILLKE: "WHAT DID YOU HAVE FOR DINNER ON CHRISTMAB DAY”
HIS [?] JEMMY [?] being of poorer parent, in somewhat afraid of being bested “OH.
WE HAD ROAST BEEF. WE DID."
BILLER: “SO MAD WE. BUT YOU DIDN'T [?] PLUM PUDDING. DID YOU!”
JEMMY: "OH YES, RATHER."
[?]
BILLER (renewing the attack): "BUT YOU DIDN’T HAVE ANY WHITE [?] OVER
JEMMY (vigorously) YES, WE DID, INDEED.” (Scores again).
BILLER (somewhat disconcerted): “HOW MANY FRIENDS DID YOU HAVE TO
D'[?]
JEMMY (hesitatingly): “OH. ONE YOUNG LADY.
BILLER (victoriously): " WE HAD TWO."
JEMMY (not to be outdone): "AH. BUT YOU DIDN'T HAVE A BAILIFF HAVING HIS
DINNER ALL BY HIMSELF IN THE FRONT PARLOUR."
(Little Biller confesses that he didn’t, throws up the sponge, and retires crushed.)
I guess that laid that egg had a pretty
Retiring from the “ring." -Tho Mar-
chioness of Queensberry, who has commenced a
divorce-suit against her husband and means to
fight to a finish.
Lord Cairns, of amorous celebrity, bettor
known as oiw lntends Improving his
A squatter came all tho way from Queens-
a bh^rtUo^befotVbreakfmt. U * h ’ diß,K>rB °
At this late hour of his life the Emperor
B^e!ltUoaffair1 off“r d M , jOT h g at ' CrOWnCa
Circumstances alter cases. Head of the
calfagain/' 0 ““ “ m “ dtr U>a °' ' 1
Premier ball-room decorator* of Nrr Booth Wales. Bala
hiSllhy rerfwMPMufjSMi vital 'f uoclioo to bTobtadocd
°°“ B °* d
In a back township in South Australia the
local policeman has been appointed public vacci-
nator. His Idea Is to do tho Job withabrwid-
knife and rum In the lymph with his official
waddy.
“A Queanbeyan witness said he could
drink ten nobblers and still be sober." We don’t
see much to brag about In that ' var A fe^ ~dg® ®
Shod crate ly° comfortable until he had surrounded
30 drinks of whisky.
An English paper hears of a fair champion
of tho billlard-tab’c, tho wife of a peer, who made
a break of 230 In an after-dinner match In a
country house the other night. And there are
several society ladios hardly loss skilful, than tho
high-born player whoso feat is chronicled T
An Italian named Bonutti, residont in
to live on hay and oats for a month. There Is no
end to these experiments of late. We shall soon
for a fortnight on boarding-house hash.
“ Pendragon," of the Rkkkrek, takes
reedit to himself for having invariably paid his
way Ih Australia and the States. “ Pen.” speaks
scornfully of tho " deadheading exploits and ex-
pedient* which have made tho numes of some
travelling Journalist* unpleasuntljr odor Heroes
somebod° Ut th ° colonio8 '" That ‘ s ft nn * ty jar for
Speaking of tho Keilawarra bungle, the
Akoub say*; " Captain Buttruy has partly atoned
the ° f jndK ™^ nt that he <»®“H«ed by
With one stroke of his quill, you see. this just
must 78 JU k KO t°ul deB lhft f hi 18 gallnnt cap,nin
The Citizen, a London journal, wishes to
Import black trackers from Queensland to hunt
up Fenians and Moonlighters. This Is a bright
Idea, but It Is not half so bright ns it look*. What
Ireland wants Is u good stock of old. tough blood-
and not a milk nnd watcr. Dorcas meetlng crowd
like the Queensland trackers.
The now and commodious gallows erected
by Messrs. Hudson and Co., of Sydney, la pro-
to th?flrm'" ft I<>Cal ° VOnlng paper *» " * credit
thing else.' is to "
that the fortunate firm will now bo entitled to
print on their business-cards, " Gallows builders
Governor 1 " Appolntlnont t 0 “a Excellency tho
Cockroaches. Bugs, and all other insects
destroyed by Mltcholl's Insect powdor. fid. la'
la 6d. Rlgney, J4l King-street. ’ '


o7eiTeklhtythous,vnd
(82,600 OOPIB8)
(jf The Bulletin' Printed Christmas Week
west with tho speed and facllltj th|
l the oountry full 60 ye»rs ago. Tn
described as a remarkable UMf
000 in all the Hawkesbury a
Queensland bord * * '
£3
Victoria enjoys a climate far
jpeans than any other Colony
nt of Australia, consequently
homseives. insist upon nas_,
it.—WlSfie-
Victoria, Rocks, T
obtainabli
: giddy
breath, who promenadi
especial object of admiration
r the three]
10 sinuc OI beauf
i the ruby Ups of
d genUoman smiles
regular afternoon, speckspan beai
deken liver, and a . ___
; wine, partiaUy toed, walks
f tho throng, and leavos C
sucking, rosy cheeked Adonis to admire
miles ofl the
tho throe]
beauty, or
_ p« these-
which reproof the
Georgo-stroet beauty,
appetite for a chicken liver, and a yearning for a
bottle of sweet wine, partli
with the bollo of tho throng, i
y choekod Adonis
idorful cigarette makers, pictures on
blood article is so lieahy and sordidly inclined, fo*s
getting the old man's sagacity in always looking
so charming in his perfect fitting suit to measure
from Summcrfleld and Co.,,merchant tailors, 236
and 237 Pitt-streot, Sydney.*
j ‘“ b ;Tii.r™««™'”°”'™" i "““
soap is to bo usod in placo of brown
Windsor at tho N.Z. < a °™™" , ° nt b °, ‘u*‘ WO u]d bo
A very serious and rogrettable error
SETStide ««•* ™K"S S'. “rSSS
s a*dK
menu and some highly moral essays on Tho
Black Aspect of tho Fijian Christian.”
Tho Vigilance Committee of the Union
SfotSy SSSS “d
wives - to join in^h^ep^ 0 "^ g e
un^eoadsmm^bru-
Jawbone Noild's late demonstration at
Hay was a moan-looking allalr. Ho was met at
the station by a chirpy little parson, a strictly
local swell, and a slirlll boy from tho Orange
Lodgo. tho latter supplying a trap for tho • onvey
anooof the man with the A pjntreaUy the
S.riLrtti! fowls were lying in'l,o bottem of
the vehicle, and these cackled
birds pock®', at the i-arson's thin little ehanlm
and made h*m ejaculate. Oh. lerd! at Inter-
vals. Jawbono all while
tnent billet aU round, the enthusiasm wavod. and
when tie declined to bring in a Bill for Giving
Everything to Everybody, his popularity became
as flat ai a tombstone, and In consequence there
were no or coloured lights at his
THE SYDNEY MEAT SUPPLY.
THE RIVERSTONE WOR[?] MESSRS. B.
RICHARD AND SONS.)
Out of the strongest and probably one of the
most unfortunate characteristics of Sydney is its
strong disinclination to got out of an old groovo—
loss financially and physically to the people. This
is palpably ovldont with regard to our meat
supply-one of tho moot important branches of
trade, and one more directly affooting the com-
bo thought of. .Some years ago there was a great
abattoirs at Globo°lsland wore conducted, and it
became evident that no really good or wholesale
suppllos for the great city meat morkot could be
obtained from this source. Every description of
Itvo stock were found to bo badly and shamefully
handled before slaughtering, nnd it could not bo
otherwise—and naturally enough the want of
accommodation at tho Island and the worse de-
fects of Homobash wore hold to be tho explana
Uon of the whole thing. Then tho powers of
Bydnoy, with mighty forethought, projected a
money thoy erected the costly cattle yards at
Flemington, neither in nor out of town, and just
at sultablo distance to ensure that all stock in-
tended for slaughter should have to travel over
Just thedUtancc of road, «nd in anil out between
thousands of vehicles, punished by men and
worried by dogs, just over sufficient dUßty road
and through so many annoyances as to ensure
their arriving at tho abattoirs in a cond tion of
the lleeh quivering, to immediately turn purple
on the work of slaughtering being completed.
Who directed the Government to put up those
blonder, and most assuredly tKfr whole network
will have to 1)0 pulled down and . arted away.
happy life of a bullock Intended for the Sydney
meat-trade. . He Is beaten or hallooed Into a truck
-at Byrock or Bourke and isdotained cramped and
thirsty for hours-nnd after hours of jolting,
shunting, and delay, ho it landed at Klomlngton
either dead or suffering from tho staggere. Tho
p££!Lti»it Hnmnhinii racecourse. Into the yards
he goes, and is sold, and after perhaps a night in a
I accustomed to carrying .'ioo head of cattle
. This trip, though only about n.ino
said by competent judgos to lessen a
mtly and naturally through the bush,
r ho arrives at the Island with his oye-
ken in. of j»»U»^uitof
presents a dark appearance, and It may
ed that It remains good only for a short
In this purple oondition the flesh is wholly
• precious llttlo strength. Tho effect on
oral health of the is undoubtedly.
ijpdest royod'berth tho*teoth of thoj'trong-
f a knowncaur-wu.d efface an;: m.vobden
il are telling v'. ; much on. ihe^jueral
—-an get good fou<l from tho'abattoirs.. nn ’’
competition resulting from the right qunrMir, wo
"23 , most \ “■“redlr And private enterprise com-
natrsi aaassas^
tho oourago and the knowledge, should long since
have performed. This U the ploture-a picture
ae Mack ae the meat lUolf which h«a to bo drawn
supply of*OM 'uStonyS* 3 Tdnor ’ “ d the m ,* at
* PCak A GRKAT CHANGE,
Unpeople of Sydney nnd tho stook-
word Riversulne will soon be found graven lnchca
deep on the tombstone of Glebe Island and Rem-
ington, where only the ghost of a departed trade-
will be found. For this great Riverstone enter-
prise the people of Sydney and New South Wales
gonemlly -for we are wldoly Interested In this
work-are Indebted to Mr. Benjamin Richards,
snrCH.fF»rt Ers
in the Riverstone enterprise, end It must bo wide
'"coe* 1 f 1 *" 1 un,lortak,n * ia hugo
can be brielly told. For years Mr. Richards, who
fattening" country on riverel
used to entrust his stock for sale at Fulbigar’s old
yards on the Western Bathurst-road, and being
satisfied with tho work dono declined to distribute
his stock to other auctioneers. Eventually an
arrangement was successfully made hero In Syd-
ney to dislodge tho auction business of stock from
Fullagar s and bring iteon to Homebush yards
Just then started. Thf trado coming to Home-
bush gave the Sydney mon the pull, and an arbi-
trary arrangement was made.the yards having
boon secured, to demand higher percentage from
the stockowners. The price had beeni4 per oent.
nnd the demand was 34 per cent. Mr. Ben,
Richards resolutely resisted this ; and the Bydney
they wouldn^t'sell'his stock 0 18 was
tho cool reply ; “ then I’ll not sell at all. but I'll
killed to markot by rail direct." AU sorts of big
failures were predicted, and ono or two lnstaases,
where, however, there was bad management,
be useless to deny that rings of carcase-hu’chers
and tho trade generally were formed iu th. city to
taken tho work in hand wm not to bo drtilreed by
any opposition, active or gi 'W as it mlgh' be. and
having his sons t<> assjst dun, tho work wont
along. on tho Windsor (Sydney)
railway line was fixed on ns th' loealr of
operations. Mr. Benjamin Richards is an
natoly but rarelv met' with. £s4g*S3tJSfi on 70
PORTION OF THE RIVERSTONE MEAT WORKS.
neariy 10 years ago. far and t^nj
bade at°a«rctch. r whlU with rogard tohismental
powers there U not a better judge or shrewder
buyer of stock In all Amstralla. Not only |n Jhls
70 odd years travelled over !
[?]
gaged in the trade. The Arm have three Urge
stations, one being In Queensland: and. in aau
tiou to killing their o*n oattlo, purchase tor the
market director for replonlahtag thgf omt^stg.
STS2 sJKS'SSt.
Mr. Richards looked round for the best paoaocas
In tl.e country for the groat enterprise upon which
lw. «nd entering and embarking heavy
l“7oital and he selected RiV«*swno p.tduooks !
j
| >Lat .‘the itnvstone
1* the source of genuine good healthy moat supply
of the great metropolis of Sydney. These paddocks ,
and the stock In them are the greatest treat an
Australian can,see, and a run through them Is
about ness DolU m'i° w'''
these Riverstone paddocks are 20 Deltas in
being made ground to the dopth of 20 or
Creek and other water courses—each tributaries
of tlio playful llawkesbury, whoeh waters at
drive hundreds of people to the house tops. When
[?]PBE OF THE RIVERS [?]NK PADDOCKS
! wholo country is enriched with an alluvial coaling
. dock*, and certainly it ia almost impossible to
I The slaughter works, simple in construction yet
designed and suitable for quick Mg
township, to which the enterprise Impart much if
famous paddocks. The old pioneer drives a visitor
over these ricbr green, carpeted wastes with
1 genuine pride, and points to each «• "waive h fri
of cattle u* being tit forl>h''>'//n nny market in
f the world.* These Riverstone Paddocks have
solved a knotty question. People inM the
Ito pay —tho railway freight would cat op
; all the protlts. But Messrs. Richards and
frelghtforthe klllod moat they more than saved In
tho weight and quality of tho bullock. Tn fact
those gentlemen say that they have found stock to
lose more in wolght and quality from tho Fleming-
ton yards to the abattoirs than Is loet by a lourney
of 200 miles from the Hunter district to Riverstone.
The wholo process is this. The cattle and sheep
brought from the firm's stations, or purchased
from a known good breeder are flrsttraveUod to the
Bulga paddocks. 10,000ucrcs in extent, thenoo by
drovers gently toward. Windsor, the
lota being timed with the regularity of clockwork.
There are
grassed, another less nnd the third least grassed.
Not a single bullock li ever slaughtered that has
l not spelled at loast a fortnight in the paddocks,
and it Is surprising what an animal will pick up
in afewdaysof restandqulet. With rich sweetgross.
| cool shado. nnd good plentiful water. First
arriving tho stock are put into the rich paddocks
being dratted into the loast grassed as they are
required for slaughtering. This system has a
wonderful effect on the stock. Just before
slaughtering they mongort
found°ln The cool, shady bend of the creeks the
I picture of good health and case. Tho herds we
saw wore splendid specimens—tho finest over soon,
and notone in a thousand wouldexpectto find such
animals within hundreds of miles of Sydney. At
evening, as they are required for slaughtering, tho
stock aro quioUy driven into the pens, and put
through without being worried, beaten or annoy ed.
The slaughtering work at tho Riverstone Meat
Worksie all don. by night, oparaUonabelng carried
1 on with tho assistance of magnificent electrio-llghts,
! far-more brilliant than those wh'ch do duty at our
Circular Quay. Tho great advanUjreot^thUla^at
£»JI2
of it being in the Bydnoy depot Dari^K
sight this slaughtering wo'rkSlt, Riverstone. No
one would suppose there was such a large amount
of work being performed In this quiet little town-
ship night by night aU the year round. The class
of menemployed are far .better than those usually
found engagod in, the work, shd
here upwards of 100 mon aid 7°"““
found vigorously at work hard as ever tne> can
go -no noise,.scarcely even a wort, and asrtatn y
nnthtn- nf tho language which Is usually nearo in
similar" places. The electric light, produced by
-*“*.■ ~ wer, lighU up the Place a. If by the noon-
d -v suq ; yet every nook and corner of the works
are swept all through the night by brecres from
; across vast stretches of forest or richly cultivated
■real of letiled land. The workmen are the
•mnrteat yet aeon hero ; the wholo work la cleanly,
quickly, and completely done, the beef and mutton
being landed in the truck a period picture of
health and riohneas. No such beef or mutton wee'
ever aeeu in any Australian city as now goes out
of these Klveratone worka every night, and If
ever a firm deserved to succeed for working out a
the Messrs. Richards, father and son*. ~^* •
drying and packing pclta, and
THE MEAT SUPPLY OF THE METROPOLIS.
carcase trade, Messrs. Richards and 8o"ns arc largo
and increasing ehippors Of frosen mutton to Krig^
f J< hand fjoaeurt' l tti
inVo sketch, vcry
ago of their facilities atßlvw^
with their great enterprise, anil at no distant date
wo may expect to And in ***£.
rn"his"fall'erjn
grandly-situated cottages have boon


T
KVI-i; EVENING. at u'mrKT to s.
Messrs Williamson, Garner, anti Musgroves
GRAND XMAS COMIC PANTOMIME,
TIIE SLEEPING BEAUTY
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY.
Prioas as nsuaL
s& SB£ss.
COMB AND SEE THE ATTENDANCE
C ° EVERY-BVENJNG.
THE ALHAMBRA HUNT CLUB PIONIb
1 CROWDEDwIth Bp ECTATOna
■ V B Of tho good things nrovldcd by tho caterer u»
Variety Company.
good things
y Company.
Mias LKTITIA BILEY Joins
; Orchestra Chairs, 2s;
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING,
SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT,
rjIHURSDAY ISLAND SCHOOL OK ARTS.
mHE RICKARDS-LEBTS COMPANY.
’ "Mr In Eiandi Mf“ Ilnl.eml F*-
vorite, supported by bis powoi
London Specialty Artists wi
zstiss ssawsfe
lie, Launceston. TO LET, I
oe Agent. Mr.Syi
Philips
For Particulars and Terns apply
J. W. RAYMENT,
Tffl MERCANTILE BANK 0? SYDHBY
(ESTABLISHED 18691.
Paid-up Capital, £300,000. RasorreFund.El6s.ooo
The Hon. Sir JohnHayTlLC.M.a., Chairman.
Henry Mort, 1
George & Calrd, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gldley King, M.UO.
C. Rolleeton. Esq.. C. ,r '
m Wilson.
Doct or Allen,
• r.sdfcrn, ‘io'tord. Krn-
i Leonard*.
CLIMAX OF PERFECTION
MONTSERRAT
T.nvrE FRUI£ JUICE SAUCE.
Sold everywhere.
QUEENSLAND railways, n. and
DIVISION,
tints and Herberton Railway-Section t
£RB are Invited for the ~
Second Section of the C
..ay—in length fifteen m
—ln accordance with Plans. ?ectlons, Drawings,
■" lions, which may
Chlof Engineer,
Commissioner for Railways, Crisbane. <
DIVISION,
■berton Railwa,
mENDERS are Invited for the Construction
the Second Section!
Railway—in length ft
—accordance with Pla—.
General Conditions, and Specifications, whloh may
Townsville, and i
MONDAY,
1886, where alee forms or Tender ana outer um
mation can bo obtained.
Tenders, endorrod " Tinder far Construction
Second Section of Cairns and Her6erton Ha
way," most be deposited at the Office of the Coi
miaaioner for Railways, not later than Four o'clo
p.m. on FRIDAY, t
be accepted.
October. 1886.
RUSTON PROCTOR & CO.’S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
“TRIUMPH" THRASHING MACHINES.
E. C. ELLIOTT & CO.,
547 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
J O H N 8 O N,
necessarily
WM. MILES, .
w.
COOPER, SURVEYOR,
I PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND
STREET, BYDNEY.
HO WINEGROWERS
Rum. Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS.
Hogsheads, Quarter-casks, Spiric Kegs, from 2
gallons and upwards.
COOPERAGE.
97 KENT STREET, and I7i St/SSKX STREET,
in
vrj?
UFACTUrfERT
IMPORTERS
HATS CAPS&c,
43ff CEO ME- ST
&YDREY %
fpfioiiti teuuCUrs ' •
I^WeeSl
of »>:i. • c ' ' *
r». and rea!Ue ybanell ho*
ot ejthe
§’medicine hiU the
ht ipot, Mid putt all
achinely of your
‘ < & h S?3SS2s*b-ln«i men m* too. the
■'JjO Y 0U w KNOW s _
medicine for Restoring end
aUtWieom. Boll* Pimple*
I ’* a mood Purifier ha* no equal.
!'S^IK,*!S^ICW'oS2S
nonuialas* BLOOD Pt’KIKILR,
ESvsss
sSs?J3SES£ES2K.* impossible.
1
that they ere unable to pa} I
BELL’S^BITTERS
Manufacturing Company,
NEW YORK. LONDON, CANADA, NEW, j
NE ZEALXND, ft AUSTRALIA.
BUTCHER, EEHON & CO..Sydney, .
_ Ufa..W»i« \ Queensland.
The New Furniture and Carpet
Warehouse
Jones, Lawson Bros, & Co.,
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
EIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
with three spare leaves, In
80LID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
Jones, Lawson Bros., and Co.,
89 CASTLERKAGH STREET.
R
WINK Asj)*SMBIT°MeIs'CHANT,
GEORGE STREET,
30NIAN00
er's 608
Lawler’s
U«n>*l.rd Dtthur
IKNWAM
'VAKI
rr
IfiSfc
S£Es&£L._,
LIWLEE'S 808 Bsorge-street, Sydney,
ii
in
el!
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
Why suffer those e:
. SOUTHAM’B RHEUMATIC PILLB
Tho Australian
chaijgo In diet
CURB FOR BLIGHT.
lhla Lotion la the Best and Safest Remedy ionSfr -1
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tee-
faculty to bp tl
Admitted by the Medical
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
B, A. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chsmirt,
681 Gaorge-atreot only.
npHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES;
61 PITT STREET, a
8 GKORGK-STRKET.
Reeorv
j Capital..
DO,OOO
670,000
A principal e
:3 0F AMKH
special facilities t
if Credit
which can be ascertained 0
■. GIBLIN, Actlng-li
i throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1 and CANADA and can offer special faculties f«
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
i and Travellers' Letter* of Credit.
! Drafts issued and BBIs collected on most favour-
R.
M).
d General
Busin cos Agonoy Ofdoo,
ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
** AN ,cv' w£ • 4
GEORGE GrOTJLET CHAMP AGUE
TRAPP <fe ELLES, 54 Margaret-etreet,
r 17CEENQN
si£-
ec&>
<lc mli-oed B*r.a) of £1 Ordor W be found In the
LARG£ BOTTLES" OF WOLFE'S SCHNAPPS-
How I beat G[?].
(By W. Beach, Esq)
iXVriW beaten good men *n njT „
tff me.
!■ And thousands and thousands for miles round the
banks
k , Of women and children, all ages, all ranks,
'Looted on^\ Ve nodded «d neither man^oke^
S How the roar of their voices comes off from both
spray drips off flbm our quivering
Hat won we both saw as we fetched each quick
;Whether Oaudaur or Beach ’twas a pull to the
man could keep np that fierce pace,
though I bent and I strained till my heart <Umost
I could gain but a foot, and then Gaudaurd be
WkWluMialiffng. 1 thought that the game was
But h«'wavered. I saw It, and sprang up. and
I.heard°a friend’s voice. " Now, Beach, at him,
'"IhCM^^My h «UI waiting for tldlcgs that day
, for the poet was In sight.
[?]
Itis eyes, they wore hazel 'and sparkling.
Ill* hair took a classical wave :
But-Torn was no masher or dudcling.
BlOOk-Wftlktn* and barmaid " kanoodllng,” '
Had lltUc attraction for Smith.
/'■s3s*bber and steady and stnilfcUJ,.’,
little black and white choker.
■^^4gintKi"Kl | H"i ryo'^r
his own Troy-weight tn gold.
jjlffiaßßftgup the telephone btUe—
things didn’t work as they ought.
f-
win Is reluctantly dying.
As sbt said : •• They’re engaged for a minute.”
ft’^wWto^ l VP > un>>ured “ all right"—
' Hcwftjueer are .the tricks of young Cupid!
Ho* terribly keen is his dart !
Tom Smith had called love allaira “ stupid,"
. ■’a'miyw ho was losing his heart
him from the Exchange—
niv ilarllnir. at last
It Indeed i* a pleasure to meefyer.'
The maidens looked rather aghast :
They tumod on their hoola and forsook him.
And® h£"'“ bobby"" came forward and took him-
.Kor - noying the ladles -to quod.
Ten > cars, also ten dozen lashes.
For attempting that number of mashes
ThcTelepluimyuaM when applied^ to


•MMSSfa areas
.'•■Moment ‘of Bum H»rn<*». .^. e * »“
BaAdltn’ Ironmongery, fco.
BLACKBURN & CO., \
******* SSm
126 YOKE ST., SYDNEY.
KVTs«* l T‘' v '
>sa
b. H. SMITH & son;
ManuCaoturers and Importers
HATS “d CAPS,
302 GEORGE STREET,
8 Doors South ot Hoc tor-tract.
JAMES ST ED MAN
'Smi woms.KCht s t nuru»*inc 6t
'U2idX**s CoJku
SOGER
Bicycles
Tricycles
, Sailing off Cheap
-JOHHDAHKS,
SSI PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRONCHITIS, COUG-H5
NCHITIS,
r ATKINBONS >
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
mJiBStgJSEgSSS&m
iSKhT”^
rasa..
E.
Merchant*, S 3 Bbidok ft
oelebrated WhlaJde
K.Remy Martin Sc Co. 8 CenUnr Brandy. In
bulk and cases . *
Vre. Martin and EUs Squirrel Brandy
Ca. Vlnoola dal norta da Espana, Rioja Claret#,
Port, to.
The nneqnallad A.V'.H. Ola, Ito., ko.
IT THE NEW 80UTH WALKS PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Intaraat as follow*:—SEVEN PER CENT on
flxad do posits for 13 months; FIVE PKR CENT.
s»d UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PKR
CENT, on sums from £1 to £6O In the Savings Bank
Ifraaoh, Payable on denial
Offices, 4 Park-st.
WARHKAM. Manager
p LARGE and WELL-ASSORTED STOCK of all
Furniture, Bedsteads, Crockery, Glassware, E. P.
Ware, IronmoDgery,
GBNBRAL FTTEISriSIIXISTa-
BEDDING
EXCEPTIONAL
PIUCE&
QUALITY
mmk
j j.
GREAT
MATTRESSES.
DOUBLE FOUR-POST BRASS-MOUNTED BEDSTEADS, WITH EXTENDING
tar Write or send for our revised 78-page Illustrated House Furnishing Guide.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Next the Royal Hotel).
'yM
m
OVJ
r/
'"W %
Mutual Plate Blass Insurance Co.
of Australasia, limited.
Jos. H. Walker, Esq. v
John J. Wood, Esq. (Sec. I
Wynn Roberts, Manager.
infl at QI!KK.N CTPWHTT. PBIBBANK.
Sold by SHOE DEALERS, CROCERS and ORUGGISTS.
PKI2K MEDALO.
HAUTHAWAY'S
OLD FELUBLE
Peerless
Gloss.
A necessity in every
family. It blacks and
polishes Ladies’ and
OFildren’s Boots.
Shoes, Rubbers and
Satcbels, without
brushing. Always
gives satisfaction.
Is conceded to be
"THE STAHOtRO.”
LLAS
Study economy;
CmbnlU n-
J. SULLIVAN'S,
M
HEALTH IS WEALTH
AAWf.
aaiaasasigi.i
fili.S.’b?“*“ *•**!
SHSirEr'S
Unudoa' •
£lOO Reward!
pUlBt. tndigMtiot
are etrictle oom;
re paralr »<*eUbU, ind oerer fall to.
*^™** i,U 'iif*ctS»d
*" JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
66 Mabeet-stkekt Sydset, N.S.W.
Bent Prepaid by port oo reodpt ol I*. V- rboa In eUmpe.
WWW
West’s World’s Wonder,
OB FAMILY LIMMEITT.
oSM&s-K’ .^s^ssa-isa®
*M»raal bp
JgRADjBY, NEWTON, ft LAMB,
FURNITURE a«d PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN.
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and ("CONNELL STREETS.
£35
-
Bradley, Newton, Md
Spring anfl O'Connell
■Uttts.
w
181
mm
VM-teradlmea
MAHOGANT,
LwidCKDAB.
O'Conn# and
SUITES. Hradlajr
-e*
W'S
•u woods,
l m
E DOM
RAWING-ROOM FUP
BPANISU MAHOGANY, a
coloured woods. Exquisite
Manufacturers, Spring and O'
Easy chairs
rooroa New
for Parlour, Library, or Bed
designs, covered to order la
Bmgtirr. wnraai,
o , o.DD.u l^.d°a^ug
( gPWNQ MATTRASOTJ
Bplr«dSpring


M£ PROPOSED ANTARCTIC
Expedition. -
TW VdbMre* paptn raport that U>a Pc£
-o*Wt dupmtcb aoacaraiaf. «*
nrnnurl Anlaiatlc aapWiliaa. Bir Grahav
ihM then „ c»rid«r»bU Uiraat
»Mul«u4ta»fcaiKopo«l i. EagltU, , a«4
WKa aoraotot coaaaoonf la
bir Allan Yaanf -^J U^ C
Octao »V
The expedition is furnished with a steamship that oam
. taken to pieces and transported overland when ncces-
An artist of the rigidly realistio soHool accompanies
the expedition.
They tjiVe also a few larrikins 1,1
bait bear-traps with
K. • Means for lighting ft fire in High latitudes is an
precaution
Unless you prefer frozen- vwHisky;
In ihat case you merely chop the
bottle in two, and eat the solidified,
content*.
Meantime a sharp look out is kept for-
right. ’• whales
The expedition
• is here seen ap-
proaching tne South
artist very properly having draws ,*?
it upside down "lit really is.
When whalers catch a wrong whale they always let it go-
again with many apologies.
£[
*3
The expedition finds a whale at last, tut as it was Wen
fast in the ice they deemed it prudent to leave it •• to b<v
called for" when the summer solstice should have thawed it
out
The Great Australian Antarctic Expedition.
