

The Bulletin
GIROTtt
GREATER THAN THAT OF ANY WEEKLY IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE.
n AL THE MARVELS OF THE AGE.
' ehusett Haymarket, Sydney, receives his consignments of Watches from the Manufacturers, Waltham, Massa-
fi h° Se coivi if* and they consequently reach the Australian public at only a trifle over manufacturers’ wholesale prices. There
,\ . handb"~ u ml i a -tst-m-i i.. _ _-x i_ ±
in 4 an dlmg. 1 hree years’ printed guarantee given with each watch. A Waltham can now be sent per parcels post to any
Ustralasia, and T. M. Alcock, the Waltham Agent, accepts all risk till the watch is safely delivered.
er SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET OF WATCHES, SPORTING TROPHIES, &c.
I- M. ALCOCK, -JEWELLER, WALTHAM WATCH AGENT, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
IRRIGATED
5 ACRE
ZE^-^JBZhvdZS.
I BOYD & KING, Auctioneers,
3© PITT STREET, S'
PAMPHLET, PLAN, AND PARTICULARS FORWARDED FREE.
'M'NTKItS BOOT PAT,ACR
GEORGE AND MARKET STREETS.
I'D
e Jj* e largest, Cheapest, and Best-selected Stock of BOOTS and SHOES to be found in any house in Australia.
Quality Fashionable Boots for Ladies and Gentlemen, cheaper than ever previously reached. Householders, heads of
5 e -j will here find the Stock of Boots larger than any other house in Australasia, and from ss. to 6s. in the £ cheaper.
A V>
lnspection of the quality and comparison of the prices is specially invited.
Th
Suitteir’s soot palace,
(THE ONLY ESTABLISHMENT OF THE KIND IN THE COLONIES),
GEORGE AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY'.
Public are requested to note that- John Hunter has nineteen branch establishments, of which particulars will be given
in a future issue.
RILEY BROTHERS,
h 13K.A.3PERS,
IE -A.LTID BATSUEST STREETS,
COME AND SEE US, WE ARE SELLING SOME WONDERFUL BARGAINS
%10-Australian Investment, Finance and Land Company, Limited.
kjjw ® a Pital - - - £500,000 • | Subscribed Capital
U OPfi ce : 163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. |
- £250.000 | Reserve Fund - £40,000.
| - BANKERS : UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
To Receive Money on Depot.it ; To Make Advances on Freehold and Leasehold Securities : To Invest in Freehold and Leasehold Property.
RATES OF INTEREST. .
e Posits at Call, v without notice, 5 per cent. ; Deposits at 3 months, 6 per cent. ; Deposits at 6 months, 7 per cent. ; Deposits at 12 months, 7A per cent.
CURRENT ACCOUNTS BEARING INTEREST.
Acoounts are also opened with trading Arms and private persons, according to the usual practice of Bankers, but with the important exception that interest is allowed on the daily
balance at the rate of FIVE PER CENT, per annual. These accounts are operated on by cheque-books, obtainable at the Oiiice of the Company.
WILLIAM CLARKE, Man agar.
t.
£5


ASK FOR COLONIAL-MADE
RE
PROOF
©£ I*7
r s
PROOF^-
Netting!
BRAND.
Cheaper than Imported.
MANUFACTURED BY
JOHN LYSAGHT, Limtd.,
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SYDNEY.
MoLEAN BUGS., BIGG ft CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
S' 1512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
o
Co
o
6
IRONMONGERS
X
mm.
m
V
o
Ht
BE&d
NT
S
SPECIALITIES J
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
GAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER'S
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &c., &c.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 and 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
FLEMINGS
RELIABLE
BUGGIES
CTRBT GRADE
STYLE,
QUALITY,
ftßfl
FINISH:
On by All the
aetftac cm**a»o
RCY HOW CHEAP,
BUY HOW GOOD 1
£5
FLEMING’S
WABGOHS
AND
Harness,
Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS;
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Cali, and Inspect
sdf
m
nitllnn II h u uinnii« n i him mu uil« u ji
f
ANUFACTURERS
muimiumin iniQMimniiinnMui)i iimmiih/
/
/ GOLfJf!VSYRiJP>
TREACi£ ik
Rfr/NfRS
HCad Office & Factory. Mewtow/v
BRANCH. CEORCE S T SYDNEY
sd
SINGER
and Co.’s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap
JOIN DANES,
863 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PAPERHANGINGS
HIGH-CLASS DADOES, FRIEZES, and
DECORATIONS,
House Decorator and
Painter,
GtLASS SILVERER, BEYELLER & EMBOSSER
Alex. Borthwick
Oil, Colour, and Glass Merchant,
281 George-street, Sydney,
HE
RKMINwTON
TYPE-WRITER
a j
Saves labour, stationery, and time, wilting much faster
than expert pen-men, and condensing matter to less than
one-half the space occupied by pen writing Beautiful
copies may be taken in the usual manner in the letter-press
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole ageots,
imr-ay & CO.,
410 Keot-street,
Z Cabinet's
3
r S'
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & Cd
(J. A, ROBERTS,'R. J. ALCOOK, G. C. CHALMERS, R. G. WATKINS-)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
IRON, HARDWARE, AND MACHINERY MEROHii
K
sc«
Importers ot
KOBE RTS. CHALMERS, & C°"
S-ST3D3SrE]IZ"-
Vm*
a*
TOBACCO WORKS,
SYDNEY.
?«yso« a sows fk
CONQUEROR
YANKEE DOO" 1,
**so*9
sirroge.B^
"1 a sons r
nailrod
HIXSON ft sons _ % i
CHAMPION
©tirsow * sons
f ««so« * sows
CUT . In Tics
K.t.KUBr.ORiENTALUIW'J
CIGARETTE GOLD UAf-^v
ORGANS 1
BOLE AGENTS FOE THE
“SMITH.”
4SS^
BRUCE & MAS
IPi-A-lsroS-,
OBGANS, M V
197 PITT-ST .
sU
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tic-
Dglorkux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Pace, or Head.
sWhy5Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
Ibottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
win give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy, No change in diet
necessary I In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55,, and 10s.
CUBE POR BLIGHT.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
Ihis Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
I. i. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
631 Ohsorge-streat only.
rjTHE CLIMAX OF PERFECTION
MONTSERRAT
LIME FRUIT JUICE SAUCE,
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
10 V'*
1
MACHINERY-
LAND
AND
NARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE STOCKS
; WITH ALL
NEWEST DESIGNS
HIGHEST FINISH
■'at : - 4 ' *
LOWEST COST
C R*
$
is T
ho
E^ 1
LOCOMOTIVES,TUGS, LAUN
ESTIMATED FOB COMP^BI
CH^ S
fs
Sydney:
in, PITT STREET.
22, KfNC STR
M
O N u M E JLjrOfi*’
ia Granite, Marble, and Er
Iron Tomb Railing - red o ®* ,
Batigtu and Estimates forwarded o» .ft
1. CTOTISCWAWf s* p '
MAHO/uia'r-siKSJC'r, WTssi.w-W“*'


The Bulletin
Vol. B—No. 872
SATURDAY, MARCH 19, 1887.
Price., Pd.
Quite Enough.
GILLIES ( loq .): “YES, YOUR ROYAL HIGHNESS, IT'S A GREAT—A NOBLE CAUSE, AND I’LL BE HAPPY TO CONTRIBUTE.


THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHED OMCE A WEEK,
AT 24 PlTT STRBKT, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable In Advance).
Per annum - £, 1 Os. Od.
Half-yearly - - - - 0 12s. Od.
Quarterly - - - - 0 6s. 0d.
Ail money orders, cheques, and registered letters
payable to
J. M. HARDING,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shilling!
sterling—which yon may pay by Post Office Order, One-
pound Note, or stamps of any Australian oolony—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer Is net open to residents of Sydney. In that oity
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in
the hands of our oarrieie, with whom we do not wish to inter-
fere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, MARCH 19, 1887.
The Impossibility of Imperial
Federation.
There was a time when the complete federa-
tion of the British Empire seemed to be a
remote possibility ; it was thought that the
problem of union might be some day solved,
and the advantages to be obtained by such a
solution were deeply and earnestly considered.
In 1871 the project rose into prominence on
account of the Franco-German war ; in 1885
it made its last real struggle for a place in
public favour when the Soudan battles were
being fought y but no manner of giving effect
to the plan has been yet discovered, and for
all practical purposes the subject has passed
out of sight, despite the frantic effo ts of
the Mortimer Franklvns and Henniker
Heatons to bring ir, and themselves, into
prominence. But because these interested
—patriotically interested, we mean—enthu-
siasts are still trying to galvanise the corpse
of this dead question, it is even now neces-
sary to show why an Imperial union can
never be effected. To review the various
plans of Federation advocated by Imporial
enthusiasts would be a laborious folly ; no
advantage would be gained by so doing, for
each proposal is so visionary in its quality,
and so indefinite in its terms, that to oppose
it with argument would be to thrust at a
shadow. The more useful course will be to
urge those facts which are in themselves
fatal to any project for the union of the Em-
pire.
• • *
Chief among these existing obstacles is the
state of the Indian Empire. That possession
the British have hitherto held, and must
continue to hold, by the fierce persuasion of
; the sword. The natives, who, in the main,
abhor the conquerors, are ruled by despotic
power : the franchise of citizens cannot be
bestowed upon them, Endowed with con-
stitutional power, they would at once vote
themselves into independence ; to give them
autonomy —and autonomy of the provinces
is essential to federation of the whole Em-
pire—would be to strike the manacles from
their hands, the fetters from their feet. To
grant them fair representation at the Im
perial Council would be to make Calcutta
the capital of the Empire. To leave India
outside the Union would be equivalent to
excising that country from the list of posses-
sions. United in a common cause by an
insult common to them all, the tribes whose
present antagonism is the source of their
tyrant’s strength would then unite and over-
whelm their oppressors. India is an incon-
gruous element in the composition of the
Empire ; under no possible system could it
be placed under conditions similar to those
prevailing elsewhere. To include India in
the Federation would be to give that country
the power of sovereignty over the entire
kingdom ; to exclude India would be to
diminish the numerical strength of the whole
Empire by four-fifths. The Indian problem
is the pons asinorum of the Imperialists, or
rather would be, save that it is not capable
of solution.
The second difficulty centres on the ques-
tion of tariff. The Marquis of Lome con-
siders this point as immaterial, but none of
his fellow oracles venture to follow his bold
if foolish example. What power a Federal
Council could exert if the matter of tariff
were ultra fires is difficult to imagine. The
powerof defiance would thenbe vested ineach
dependency, and even under peaceful condi-
tions when each colony was acting in concert
with others in matters of Imperial scope, the
varying duties imposed would stultify and
defeat the very principle and object of fede-
ration. If the units of the Empire are to
continue their commercial war, whence can
the commercial benefits of union arise ? If,
on the contrary, tariffs are to be subject to
Imperial control, the very means of life of
colonists would be sacrificed, and their ter-
ritories lose value except for the production
of raw material, and the industry of the king-
dom would then centre in the millionaire-and-
pauper-breediDg cities of England. To shut
colonial ports against the products of Bel-
gian paupers, while leaving them wide open
for the receipt of English pauper products
would be more foolish than to leave them
open to the world. And, further, if the
colonies are to . renounce their tariffs from
whence will the revenue come to restore the
equilibrium of finance ? Confronted by
these considerations it is impossible to be-
lieve that the colonists could be induced to
renounce their present power of taxing im-
ports ; and as such renunciation is a condi-
tion precedent to adoption of any real sys-
tem of Imperial Federation, it is safe to
assume that the alleged “ bonds which bind
the colonies to the mother country” arc not to
bo strengthened or increased till the present
circumstances undergo a radical and entire
alteration. x \
• * •
Another obstacle to Federation is the in-
dependence of the colonies and the fulness
of the powers they wield. Had this power
never been given it is possible that it would
not be asked for now ; the colonies might
still have been content with foreign direction
of such local affairs as are now controlled by
the electors. But, as the leading-reins have
been cut, the colonists are confident of the
sufficiency of their own ability to go on in
the laths of progress and prosperity. Im-
perial Federation means the deprivation of
the power enjoyed by colonists to control
their finances and their policy with regard to
other dependencies ; it means that where
colonists now dictate they must submit to
dictation by a voice which is only remotely
in sympathy with their own. To give
power is an easy thing ; to take it away is
hazardous, and certain to produce discontent
and rebellion. If a Federal Council were
constructed *n the basis of representation
according to population, New South Wales
and Victoria would each have two members
out of 600. Would this colony be satisfied
with two representatives —say Messrs. Wis-
dom and Jennings —in the House of Com-
mons, or meekly obey any decree which
these two might assist in passing ? The idea
is utterly preposterous, yet no more so than
would be the case under the much-vaunted
I mperial union. Another cognat e con sideration
is the apparent fickleness of the polit : cal mind
of Australians. As yet colonists, taught to
look to England for the incentive to
patriotic thought, have not been able
to centre their minds upon an enduring
political ideal. In England the highest
mundane authority known to them resides ;
and from England bishops, governors, Deer-
hursts and Dudleys, whom a fawning and
grovelling press calls upon them to worship,
are imported. Australians can arouse no
enthusiasm over these poor ideals, and the
real objects of national adoration, the
native soil and people, are constantly
decried by this same press as inferior in
worth and importance to a foreign island,
and a people foreign to them in essential
conditions. Therefore the public mind of
Australia is fickle, and ever will be, until it
becomes rooted and fixed on the true
ground of patriotism —the continent which
we occupy. Australians are now in the
transition stage : their thoughts, still waver-
ing, are being attracted more and more
strongly every yeartothesurroundingsof their
own homes, and to their own true policy.
Therefore, if possible, it would nevertheless
be disastrous to attempt to win from
Australians an allegiance to an Imperial
Union. And every day renders the possi-
bility of obtaining such allegiance more re-
mote, and the attempt to do so more hope-
less and unwise.
* * *
A fourth obstacle to Federation of the
Empire is contained in the fact that Aus-
tralians, or at least a large majority of them,
have already designed for their country a
future of perfect legislative independence ;
the idea of national independence may as
yet be vague and undefined, but the deter-
mination to break away from the vicious
traditions and mischievous institutions of the
old world is clear and strong. England may
have her privileged peers, but Australia
refuses to share in the infliction : the United
K ingdom may claim a voice in the wranglings
and a hand in the strife of Continental
nations, but the growing Australian spirit
loathes the thought of even a fractional share
of such a prerogative of interference. The
Soudan Expedition is paraded by Imperialist
writers as evidence of Australian willingness
to sell her birthright of peace for a mess of
military glory, but these enthusiasts have as
yet heard only one-half of the history of that
criminal political blunder. The final result
of that expedition has been to make a subse-
quent one impossible. Before its despatch
men argued from theory as to the probable
effects of an offensive military Australian
policy ; since its return, the evils of foreign
interference can be cited from the evidence
of undeniable facts. One attempt at foreign
warfare has taught a lesson that will never be
forgotten. Henceforth British and Aus-
tralian policy with regard to foreign nations
will he widely dissimilar, unless indeed the
course of British statesmanship leads to a
strict limitation of military force to the pur-
pose of national defence.
These are a few of the obstacles in the
way of Imperial Federation, but even if they
were absent and other insuperable difficulties
were removed, the quality of the Australian
advocates of union who are resident in Eng-
land would make achievement impossible.
Timeo Danaos et dona ferente s would be the
Australian reply to the overtures of such
Imperialists. The names of Henniker
Heaton, Mortimer Franlyn, and Sir
Graham Berry are in themselves enough
to prevent Australians from espousing the
cause. Yet these men are fair samples of
the “representative Australians’" whose
pride it is to lend their influence t© the
movement. The first of the three named ds
known as one who has succeeded in life to
an extent far exceeding his reputation in
New South Wales ; the second has left a
record in Melbourne which wpuld more than
suffice to make the average man hide his
identity beneath an alias ; and the third
stands revealed as a political adventurer
who betrayed the class and renounced the
principles by which he rose from the retail
grocery trade to the Premiership. The mere
fact that such men are enthusiastic in the
cause is quite sufficient to discredit it utterly
and for ever in the eyes of Australians ; to
accept a boon from such gentlemen a 3 these
would be a degradation greater than the
value of the gift. Their advocacy is of itself
enough to constitute another element of im-
possibility to consummation of the proposal
for Imperial Federation.
Parkes and Political Purity.
The New South Wales political whirligig is always
evolving some startling surprise, but the most
extraordinary evolution with which it can be dis-
credited is the combination of Parkes, Garrett,
and Salomons in a Ministry the boast of which
is that it is to bless the colony with “good and
honest government ” and restore the tone of public
life to whatever purity it formerly pos-
sessed. Six years ago these three gentlej
men appeared before the public in the re-
spective characters of judge, accused, and ac-
cuser in the trial of a charge of alleged gross poli-
tical corruption. Mr. Salomons, as a Commis-
sioner appointed to make inquiries as to the
disposal of £17,000 voted by the New South Wales
Parliament as compensation to the Milburn Creek
Company, made an exhaustive investigation, and
startled the political world by reporting that the
evidence respecting a certain transaction in shares
" Seems to admit of only one interpretation—that is, that
Mr. Thomas Garrett, M P., was to receive fither the
value of the 2000 shares, or the £5OO represented by his pro-
missory note as a corrupt reward tor services rendered by
him to the Company as a member of Parliament.”
On the strength of this definite accusation it
became the duty of Sir Henry Parkes, as leader
of -the Assembly, to direct the attention of the
House to the matter. He assumed that he occu-
pied a pos'lion somewhat analogous to that of a
Judge, and that his duty was to give an impartial
statement of the facts. In all judicial proceed-
ings a j udge is allowed a certain latitude in making
comments, and what did Judge Parkes say on
this occasion ?
" Let hon. members think what they may, or say what
they may, it you acquit Mr. Garrett of all blame on this
evidence your act will fasten eternally upon yourselves re-
proach and calumny and dishonour. . . This evidence
points in the most direct terms, to an act of conuption on the
part of the hon. mtmber.”
A motion to expel Mr. Garrett from Parlia-
ment was proposed, in the most scathing terms,
by Sir Henry Parkes, and 40 members declared
by their votes that they were prepared to have
“eternal reproach, calumny, and dishonour”
fastened upon them, while 38 declared to the con-
trary. What did the impartial judge deliberately
say—not in the heat of the moment, but 28 days
after the jury, by a majority of two, had acquitted
Mr. Garrett ?
” I say that the vote is a red-hot brand of shame on the
Parliament cf the country, and it never will be wiped away,
aud I say further that no case of corruption can arise in this
countiy which can be brought home to the offmder in
Parliament if that vote is to be accepted as a guide and a
precedent.”
Rather strong language to be used by a judge
who had had four weeks to recover from the dis-
appointment caused by the non-acceptance by the
jury of his dictum ! To show the estimation in
which the quasi-judge and the accused held each
other, we will quote two sentences from Mr.
Garrett’s defence
** I am entitled to expect hon. members to remember the
character of my accuser (Sir Henry Parkes). . . . He
does not come into court with clean hands, not only in this
thing, because, as has been pointed out, he is the head and
the front of the offending, but lean also point out that in
other things—the very things I am cha-ged here with being
guilty of —he himself has been guilty of.”
A person unacquainted with the peculiarities of
politicians would naturally suppose that thence-
forth not only political partisanship but also per-
sonal friendship would be at an end between these
two individuals, but such has not been the case.
In this conneci ion it will be well to note that all
the steps towards reconciliation have been taken
by Sir Henry Parkes, the “ patriot ’’—the “same
unswerving soul," who writes verses about the
“grandeur of his aims.” Three or four years
after the Milburn Creek trial he “upheld the
honor and dignity of Parliament ” by voting in
favour of Mr. Garrett’s election as Chairman of
Committees, and lastly he appointed that gentle-
man to the important position of Minister of
Lands. When challenged on the subject during
the recent elections he justified his selection of
Mr Garrett on the very weak ground that the
Assembly had condoned the past sins of that
gentleman by appointing him Chairman of Com-
mittees, a proceeding which the sanctioned by his
own vote. In the House the other night he jus-
tified it in these words :
“ Was it dishonoring to him to recognise Mr. Garrett 1
services, his fidelity to their ciuse, or to contend then as he
contended now, that whatever might have been the charac-
ter of the transaction years ago, it ought not to Hand in the way
of men like Mr. Garrett serving this country ?'
We commend the words printed in italics to the
consideration of the sucking sycophants who see
in Sir Henry Parkes all that is good and honor-
able, and think that the purity of public life is in
safe keeping in his hands.
* * *
It was not to be expected that the extraordinary
combination of Parkes, Garrett, and Salomons
would escape censure from the new Parliament.
The leader of the Opposition referred to it in a
half-hearted, if not foolish, way ; but Mr. O’Mara
ok it up and dealt with it in a manner which
will redound to his everlasting credit. He showed
no quarter to the politician who is responsible for
such an unholy alliance, and competent critics
declare that, for scathing invec’ive, a more
powerful utterance than that of Mr. O’Mara was
never before heard in the New South Wales Par-
liament. H« made Parkes and Garrett literally
squirm and howl under his merciless castigation,
and they presented a perfect picture of discom-
fiture. Parkes is evidently determined not to
lose his reputation as an accomplished political
fish-fag, as hi 3 so-called “ vigorous” reply to Mr.
O’Mara was a continuous screech of forceless and
blatant vulgarity. Bitter and seve-e as was Mr.
O'Mara’s attack, we venture to say that a perusal
of the official Report—not the cooked reports pre-
sented to the readers of the Sydney daily Press
—will show that he not make ore re
mark which could he regarded as being vulgar
abuse. Parkes was fairly scotched, and the best
answer which he could make was that Mr.
O’Mara was a “ cur ” and a “ reptile.” The only
explanation which he offered respecting Mr.
Garrett’s position in the Government was that
which we have quoted— he in no way retracted or
qualified his utterances in 1881, so that they are
of equal force now to what they were when they
were uttered. As for the statement that Parkes
and Garritt were agreed on political principles
it has to be considered in conjunction with the
fact that, as recently as the 10th November last,
ihe latter gentleman declared that he was not a
rabid Freetrader, and that he would favour Pro-
tection to a certain extent. Speaking on the pre-
vious night, Mr. Garrett said that there had
been mutual explanations which wet e satisfactory
to himself. Sir Hfry Parkes, and Mr. Salo-
mons. The whole surroundings of this extraor
dinary business are so peculiar that the public
have a right to know, and the Of position ought to
insist on being told, what those explanations were.
If Mr. Garrett can reconcile his present position
with whatever conscience he may possess well and
good ; he must be credited with having played a
very skilful game ; but as for Sir Henry
Parkes he must either offer an unqualified and
satisfactory explanation on the subject or stand
before the world branded as a man devoid of all
sense of political shame.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Insolence of Office and the
Law's-Snobbery.
Robert Sutton and Viscount Debrhurst are
betting-men—the former being a “professional”
who makes money at the game, while the latter
is an amateur who aspires to do likewise. About
Christmas time the little Viscount essayed to
“ get a bit" at pigeon shooting, as many another
nobleman has done before him. The Viscount
who may be written down an a —ide-dc-camp to
Sir Henry Locii, the Victorian Governor—failed
to augment his bank balance upon the occasion in
question, and retired from Hurlingham grounds
(the Melbourne Hurlingham) a heavy loser. He
proved to be somewhat of a pigeon himself, and
Sutton shot him for £2Bl. The Viscount, like
many another nobleman before him, was non est,
on settling day. Sutton endeavoured to hunt up
his distinguished debtor, but his distinguished
debtor did not hunt him. Finally the bookmaker
threatened to “post” the Viscount as a de*
faulter, and did, in fact, make a communication
to the committee of the Victorian Club. Finding
himself in a position which, even for an aide-de-
camp, was decidedly awkward, the Viscount pre-
mised to liquidate his debt of honour in a few
days, and wrot e Sutton that he “could post him
and be d d if he didn’t like the arrangement.
In thus consigning to damnation the creditor who
dnnned him, the Viscount worthily sustained the
traditions of his class. But Sutton, being
master of the situation from a sporting point
of view, elected to question the Viscount’s
right to damn the man with whom he had
gambled unsuccessfully. Hence, when the
bookmaker and the Viscount met, face to face, at
the back bar of a Melbourne hotel, trouble arose.
Sutton demanded an apology in a way that seems
to have temporarily deprived the Viscount of
whatever wits he usually possesses. This worthy
in addition to being the son of an earl and an aide
to Sir Henry Loch, also believed himself
worthy- to be an officer of police in Victoria, so
in order to do something to make Sutton
frightened,” he tapped him on the shoulder and
said, “ I arrest you.” Sutton promptly wiped
the Viscount across the mouth, friends intervened
and the noble poliee-officer left his “ prisoner ” in
possession of the bar room and sneaked off. At
this stage of the squabble someone suggested to
the Viscount that he might give his title a chance
by lodging a complaint against Sutton with the
Gommittee of the Victorian Club. The move was
successful, and the Viscount slew his adversary
with his noble birth. A toad-eating section of the
committee expelled Sutton from his club, and on
the strength of this injustice the bookmaker sum
moned Deeruurst for assault, Uekrhurst
issued a cross summons, and all the facts of the
case, just as above stated, were put before Mr.
Panton, P.M., and a bench of twenty justices at
Melbourne District court. No sane man can doubt
what would have been the Bench’s decision if the
rival prosecutors had met on equal social ground.
The cases would have been dismissed, or a fine
imposed in each instance. But the halo of Govern-
ment House surrounded the precious Viscount
and his gilded friend, Earl Dudley, was acconn
modated with a seat beside the lawgivers. gas-
siety expected the Bench to grovel before His
Excellency's aide-de-camp, and the Bench per-
formed its allotted task to sassiety’s satisfaction
The charge against the Viscount was dismissed
with bated breath and whispering humbleness
while Sutton was committed to prison for 14
days without the option of aline. Whatever may
be the issue of Sutton's appeal matters little to
anyone but himself. It should be sufficient for
the Victorians to know that, in a so-called demo-
cratic colony, there is one law for an impecunious
lord and another for a ready-jhoney bookmaker.
Let Melbourne tradesmen beware. Needy sons of
“ knocked-out ” earls are becoming plentiful in
these parts, and plebeians who have dealings with
the nobility must refrain from asking for their
own, A lickspittle law allows two alternatives to
the man who duns a lord. He must either do 14
days or submit to be “ damned.


Th« S,d„l übsidiBing the Press '
witwS g papers are making good
their
South Wales at Southci ' u P ai of New
Slf, Sc TH E R L^ e D eX^ nse of public. Secre-
£ ely in their toil’s w n ° W seems > com-
the machirGf- ma^e a brave stand
h n eiQ fl'ience oHh,c n 8 0f the D T - at first, but
“? T erntnent has r,™ Jo . l ? rnal with the head of the
is now saidT 1 l ed ’ aEd the Minister of
V h ° n busy arra nging for the
sum be ab °nt £26 non 6 IOSS to tbe Government
5V n times ?o a fB year! That is a B° odl^
ttp , t 0 two morn? throw away annually as a
sconl 033 oan be earnin g Papers of Sydney. But
or 60 of The dismissal of a
the» rabw ay fettlerJ clerks and a few hun-
RRw» teat en d Will be „ W - ld balance the thing, and
£ ? and Her ald g^ned of Posing the Tele-
that rage Airier- N ° won d er these journals
Sin if a ® r ft lcail railway system. In
it hna t to c °avey p ews Paper requires a special
aren- to P a yforth fi L CO F ies into th o country
ciaip r ? a te Property an/!? 6 ' The railwaye there
are i' nci P]es. j n v, d are managed on commer-
a y ea n c ,biefly f or ~ w South Wales the rail's ays
a, F h? 1 doub tless hob?! parpoee3, This £26,000
optlav ° ng time rm/P to keep Parkes in office
ei'ervV? 1 “aturallv papers benefited by the
hae u fJ 661 callod upon to applaud
of the Minister who
quite Bulled to a lar’o- nd public will doubt-
i(, Tl>« thl.g is not
Mr. Mu? Sor uethino- however. The Assembly
tender 5 '‘ h ° x e sseirm N about the project yet,
othetV 0 the Press «^ tab 3 in no humour to
evef , " tho lC; and - there are u ot wanting
surely^. Action of tT m ® d to be hostile. If
aim I. V s these twr. iY® Press courted hostility
too, v ,to dip i nt morning Papers, whose sole
*oluter> the m oa tbe Treasury, at a time,
Hreat I pessary T , n Bid economy is ab-
flelighK eal iP favour journals preach a
°t a f„.. at beW a hit> ! retrenchment, and are
Would P°°r clerks to chronicle the dismissal
tra 'P tho?’ l3ls. Pay for w . 0 aggregate salaries
the wheels of tho
°Wn u, r ,u i e crew i, e P J ice of their support to
Plaint Hive them let them have it their
' v *th hj 8 1 °f flieam> a the rope they want, by
aze P favo’uriH year of Harkes in office,
„ good c °Pp^try that- i? 1 ?: w ‘d about suffice to
® n 0 proi 0 '’ 61 ' 1101 a bis boasts as to yielding
° ial distr 6018 t°r relio^ re Wor thless, and all his
this n 688 aPavaili,, bhe colony from finan-
[ a3t ' s anm?' Vepa Per Tbo Proposed running
of 6 5 the mono ° n thc Southern line is a
aa y eon s p? We may ex P e ct at the
j^Ppal,, era Uon tL. .° cannot be influenced by
1 lB EOt in behalf of his own
>4 p ot d o him aggrand isement. But perhaps
B ra W ea3 WiluL nm ?b good after all. The
' 4'P for tu t 80 obvim re i dly be iodignant at an
Pap ers he berefu ,V Bly designed to choke
the metropolitan morning
i n, o4l atl, Sremu n ? dence Trick.
iSjd botw th a big L o *, tbe instalment of Parkes
Ma] eB Jb byp Au g majority at his back, we are
w° Ce ' Th tra<3e Press ™ B . e t f an d the New South
foment f' e depressing 18 the restoration of confi-
b>Tre arfche PeouV 0f t ? ade - the lack of em-
f *e? e . 3 Pry ar > a ud the financial muddle
l y ip 4 the aSe* ain]y hue, we are asked to
*. ® de eesa 0 < ?? ernni ent ° f falt h among the citi
wS? O( i£ 8: aPd rn Carried 00 by Parkes’
]J dg] lt . Br PPient” t be Personification of
g o ;' s i n helm again things
U? 6 ev en f ,d luen C A , obec hence to the natural
in°H ou Ph'v lnbei ' than n?? 11 action - Parkes has
U [be y needs is n o thi8 ’ and protested that all
Ple!u Bsai d hi B m o,lfld e h pce nfc^ o T ne “ erit of himself
thf o Peeriv, a ®®®cttime 6 ' Just you bust me,’
a v „° u Sh ap ,5 a dventnr 8 °' Ut of r ‘ umb ( r during his
““<! I will pull you
giiii htßctini r °BUes in t 163 and troub'es.” There
Sfc.Sg"* nS..M. s
e fit „ Pour , nfl dence trick on the
grn!l oSe Rem PeTe Pnial t ,?° that vast me’ro-
jpat riu. ry t® preoia i treara ' argument
ho* t<> sC Nh v. : ..° Bely the same as that of the
that yoi ?r y°ur purse with me,
Mt-hi Hy b’F’Photy ih„ avo confidence in my
ipn. !the 0 «5 f’Pg entnn , con ddence trickstors are
taft ~d 4 i C ! a >offc lod in little imbroglios
sL 8 tha t theTn Yard ’ and thoprevail-
to h? 118 Who ° tn to h;iv, y are a had lot. People
dtp' 8 Placed ? re c °Ptir.i,„ii' tttber an objection to
to t >t. them 1 T ab y asking for confidence
iB i fl L opdoi ep wbli' ch laN -S.W., however, It is
of siif a tter fu g wll S -_ t re are more comparable
ha v y thw be ht, and o ß aS k for 'heir confidence
s opf j Th e n UBe them to do ail sorts
Oat) tip)Q e d confix lm ber of sane men who
aaiA^tdcotn? 6 / 11 Parkes at the pre-
anri d to havJ^nK 18,61011 - The Postmaster-
Pdty a bk) a fl Se Veral ~ oUn ded political faith in
of thl f ° r Knni rtn befiftf j rs am ong the Ministry
Nt A 4mK, 5 Probity and
4,' The? bly are e i Pr h oba hlya clear majority
Nt Co Pr 8o gUl, a Wifi , 6d with a hhe senti-
rN PwLi 8,3 the m-n cou rse be awakened
MIU° t Pttanubpped ? n y to the common London
nCBdconflri0 nfIri dnd themselves the vic-
lS nCe ' But then Parses
• bd °Pce-tni as tonishing the extent to
°k is callable of being re-
N 4' N-m. V—
th>4>’sSD 8 fi ° Uth Wales Deficit.
N ¥ Hr 8 . the opening of the New
3 ber c l dh e N p AR K N leavea ver y fittie doubt
nNor 8 a den Noiatn i inte uds to have his name
?S>ls ® Ci t of latad With promissory notes.
a' 8 U Jbdicati ade in q, J £8,000,000 to which no
,°P from ®P eec h, and the absence
“ hiB n? Nm° alt WitV) the Government as to how
be ° f Tr ena . may he accepted as proof
Pity 8 ’ (j a Very Fy bißa will be proposed.
fpM of aa it V ? r htn 6 nt ?° nvenien t way for the
w'pQvi„ 0, ll C p ;> a y onuLi K@ t out of the difli-
fjdl bp g thr. ? r thi-,. J ° them to draw tho
k iPcr eft 'Pcnbuq 3 years > Ihe burden of
to B r Whic h- with interest,
4 ati Ct S Whe Q Wn 0n ar ly £3,500 000 by that
m wm . the shoulders of their
Neb : lo Pt. t 11-- a '. ® to propose additional
o r l°i' a 8 N Q ther r by undertaking for any
ktp'tPrv y O tho>? I Pentinr?° lar3iable feat uro of the
thS?k tevS tax to a . 18 ma de of the property-
Gip -l,i a t pF'Pp an , 186 money to equalise the
4° j„ Xpend iture, while it is
,Ni, a lliJUixu to be ashed to repeal
hN PWay ’ ]j es , ?’ which returns about
'v J l ' Uv °UUe !i e this insane idea of
b i>Me otf 0 t f the??’ the speech states :-
k futU xi ety a° U be Of pr ? Bpecfc (,f fche ttnances
ft la ben dt 'i re to y to tL a . chara ctter, it is belie red,
Hoy 8 » . ,n ®et the' of the. public re-
Wki fill, °nr Pr , 18 a Leceßßlt, ies of the country."
S qualification.
£ 88 C.bs wNe L ls the intention of the
141 4' t,f '>e B t by thpl? lr t the revenue
ClBe the .fheal of the ad valorem
y °U c o ; dlltyon tea, and impos-
mal beer~two proposals
which will be likely to meet with strenous opposi-
tion. The impression conveyed by the speech is
that the “honest” Government which was to
boldly grapple with the difficulties of the financial
position have no definite policy beyond that of
giving a sop to M’Millionism by the repeal of the
ad valorem duties. Will selfiieh M’Miliionism
give anything in return ?
♦
A Holy Trinity,
When Sir Henry Parkes and Mr. Thomas
Garrett agreed to forget about the “red-hot
brand of shame ” and become colleagues in office,
the shamelessness of their position was a shock to
the community. But the measure of political
degradation was not filled by that union True,
Sir Henry had roundly accused Mr. Garrett of
the grossest corruption in the Milburn Creek case,
and had roared with rage when the Assembly by
an unfortunate majority of two decided that Mr.
Garrett was not so much worse than the other
members as to tender his expulsion necessary, but
these "were not the only persons prominently con-
cerned in that affair. Mr. J. E. Salomons was
still unconnected with the Cabinet. He it was
who, authorised by Commission, inquired into all
the circumstances of the Milburn Creek Company,
and by his report furnished Sir Henry with justi-
fication for the motion against Mr. Garrett. It
will be remembered that Mr. Salomons was much
censured by a section of the community, because
it was alleged that ho had exceeded his duty in
adding condemnation to the work of enquiry. He
not only collected evidence, hut delivered judg-
ment thereon. So severe were his remarks con-
cerning Messrs. Baker and Garrett that he was
even accused by members, who were not fully in-
formed as to the evidence, of animus against those
whom he so unsparingly condemned. In January,
1884, Mr. Thomas Garrett was the political pri-
soner at the bar of the House. Mr. Salomons was
Crown Prosecutor, Sir Henry Parkes the
Judge, and the members the jury. Now,
the Crown Prosecutor, the Judge, and the
prisoner have come to regard each other as
worthy colleagues; Mr. Garrett pockets his
pride, Sir Henry Parkes his passion, and Mr.
Salomons his opinion. The three are now pre-
pared to act in concert for the b nefit of the
Cabinet and country. A holy trinity, truly ! But
the strangest part of the affair is Mr. Garrett's
total misconception of the position. When the
political indecency of his alliance with Parkes
was hinted at by Mr. Abbott, Mr, Garrett’s
reply was in efieot that Sir Henry was satisfied,
so was he, and that therefore the country ought
to he. But the country is not and cannot be.
Either Sir Henry’s passion was a cruel infliction
on Mr. Garrett, and Mr. Salomons’ report an
incorrect deliverance, or else these two really con-
sidered Mr. Garret r to have acted corruptly in
the matter of Milburn Creek. And if they were
earnest and sincere how do they now dare to im
pose him as a Minister upon a long-suffering
country, or how do they justify their alliance
with him? That is the point. It is not Parkes,
Garrett, or Salomons who are to be the arbiters
of their former conduct; it is the country on
whose behalf they act that must decide as to the
measure of their iniquity and the shares of this
iniquity which each must bear.
Surveyors’ Chainmen.
A. CHAiNMAN employed by a Government Surveyor
complains to us that he has received only half the
remuneration allowed by the department. Further-
more, he feels aggrieved because he ha 3 not been
engaged in surveying, but in chopping wood and
gardening for and on behalf of the Government
surveyor aforesaid. Another ebainman is filled
with wrath for the apparently insufficient reasrn
that he has to nurse his master’s newest baby,
tend his master's buggy-horse, and drive his
master'.-, wife abroad, instead of assisting in the
work of land-surveying. This man says he gets
15s. a week and hi* board and lo.tging. The N.S W.
Survey Office, he says, ischa-ged £2 2s a week for
his services. These stories are all very well, hut
these chainmen should remember that tbe
times are hard, and surveyors who have
wives and families to support are no
doubt j ustified in adding to their incomes by hook
or by crook. And then the custom of charging
the Government more than is actually paid to
chainmen, and charging for chainmen w ho are
never employed on Government work at all seems
to have become thoroughly recognised and estab
lished in New South Wales. Many a farm has
been cleared and cultivated ai the expense of the
country by taking advantage of this custom ; and
hence there has been an increase of the national
wealth which otherwise might not have arisen.
To be sure tho general fund has suffered, but that
is nothing. The salaried surveyors have become
rich, and no doubt they have employed their
wealth in promoting the advancement of the
colony, so the deal is a tolerably square one. The
N.S.W. Survey Department is an institution
which is admirably conducted on the whole. It
fulfils its ends'to perfection. A large number of
highly paid official i make good pickings one way
and another, and therein lies the proof of the de-
partment’s success in the direction of securing its
ends. L nfortunately there is a necessity j ust now
for retrenchment, and potsibly the happy arrange-
ments whereby salaried professional men are per-
mitted to feather their nests at the cost of the
State will have to succumb before the spirit of
cheese paring economy now abroad. We are
afraid the Ghainmen will gain nothing, anyhow.
What tbe surveyors will loose the Government
will gain, at least it’ ought to. We recommend
these ‘ chainmen ” to go on chopping wood, gar-
dening, driving buggies, nursing babies, &c , and
accepting 15s. a week for their services. If they
make a noise they will only get their masters into
trouble, and be thrown out of employment them-
selves in c> nsequence. They should constantly
bear in mind that in doing this they are fulfilling
the eminently Christian doctrine of doing unte
others as they would others should do unto them,
♦
Tho Publication of Evidence in
Divorce Oases.
According to a writer in the Sydney D T., the
New South Wales Parliament should lose no time
in passing a law prohibiting the publication of
evidence in divorce-suits. Judges have the
power now to prevent tho publication of such evi-
dence during the currency of trial; but the D.T.
writer is content with nothing short of absolute
prohibition. There is a considerable public opinion
in favour of hearing cases of the sort in question
in camera ; but it is noticeable that this opinion
comes wholly from one division of the public. It
takes its rise in what Herbert Spencer calls
“ the bias of class.” In nearly all “ sensational ”
divorce cases a “highly respectable” person is in
some way mixed up. If the petitioner and re-
spondent happen to be of no great “quality,” there
is almost invariably at least one co-respondent of
considerable rank or wealth or position in society.
If all the parties are mere nobodies the papers
only publish a bald account of the issues and the
result of the hearing ; but where one or more
of the parties belongs to a higher social
grade the smallest details are given to the world.
Evidently, therefore, respectability suffers largely
under the laissez fairc arrangement which for the
most part prevails at present. And accordingly
respectability is taking alarm. It pretends to see
in the publication of divorce evidence a tendency
to corrupt the innocent minds of youths and
maidens ; but that this is not the real reason for
objecting to publicity is plain from the fact of the
objection being confined to divorce evidence.
There ate other cases besides divorce in which the
evidence is grossly indecent; but not a word is
said against the fullest details of such evidence
being issued to the world in the daily papers. In
those other cases, however, the persons afFected
by the publication are not the “big pots” of
society, and nobody is concerned to ra ; se a com-
plaint about the immoral influence spread broad-
cast by the printing of the evidence. We fear the
outcry of “respectability” will produce little
good. The public will not tolerate secret trials
just because public trials involve the shedding of
too much light on the ways of respectability. The
conduct of Mr. Justice Webb in Victoria the other
day is open to the severest reprehension. A pro-
minent and “ pious ” member of Parliament was
a co-respondent in a divorce suit, and Judge Webb
disallowed the publication of the evidence in the
usual way. A very small proportion of the people
will ever know the measure of that politician’s
culpability ; yet plainly the whole community of
Victora is deeply concerned to know its extent.
We don’t go so far as to say that Mr. Webb was
influenced by any consideration for the feelings
of the member of Parliament in question, but it is
a cuiious coincidence that whenever the publica-
tion of these cases is prohibited personages of high
station are concerned in them. When a labourer
seeks to divorce his wife the papers may run riot
ampng the filth disclosed at the trial, and that
they do not publish the filth is simply because their
readers are only interested in artistic filth. And
the people generally are interested in the im-
moralit’es of men and women in high positions,
inasmuch as the high positions these men and
women occupy makes immorality in their case a
danger to society at large. So long as social dis-
tinctions exist, those in high places must expect to
suffer more from the curiosity of the world as to
their conduct than those in lowly places. There
can be lit tie doubt that the dread of publicity—of
a great scandal—does more to keep respectability
from acts of indecency than a constant remem-
brance of the rules of conduct laid down in the
Decilogue ; and it is for this reason the public are
concerned to maintain the existing system of open
trial in cases where respectability would much
prefer secrecy. The D.T. and its friends, we fear,
will not get Parliament to fall in with their wishes
as leadily as seems to be expected.
-♦
Deterrent Punishments.
According to the authoritatively pronounced
opinion of that eminent jurisprudent, Mr. Justice
Windilyer, the initial cause of the Mount Rennie
outrage lay in the failure of the Executive to
hang certain persons whom his Honor had in
previous years sentenced to death for like crimes.
Several of the persons in question were not only
not hanged, but were liberated by the Government,
for the plain and simple reason that their inno-
cence was satisfactorily established. But the
question of innocence or guilt is apparently of
minor importance in Mr. Windeyer’s opinion to
the secondary object of deterring people from
committing breaches of the law. The execution
of half-a-dozen men ostensibly for violent outrage,
the learned judge declared in effect, whether they
were actually guilty or not, would produce the
highly desirable and salutary result of deterring all
other men from perpetrating any offence of
the sort. We do not suppose this judge would
sternly withhold all sympathy from the objection
of an innocent man to be hanged simply as an
example to feloniously-disposed persons, but it
would seem that the fact of the execution being
an example to evil doers is the most notable and
pregnant feature in tho business from his Honor’s
standpoint. How does such a theory tally with
the teachings of experience ? The hanging of four
of the Mount Rennie culprits (or victims) ought
on the hypothesis to give New South Wales im-
munity from the crime of rape for at least as long
a period as the memory of the event was fresh in
the public mind. Yet while the whole of the
Mount Rennie boys were lying under condemna
tion, and while it was generally supposed they
would all be accorded a short shift and no mercy,
three crimes of a similar character were committed
almost under the shadow of the gallows ; and the
four who were in the end selected to produce the
required shocking example were scarcely cold in
their graves before still further additions to the
catalogue of outrages on females were being
chr< nicled by the newspapers. The idea that
punishments may be regarded as deterrent, or
that they should be regarded as deterrent, or that
they should be used as deterrents, is founded on a
fallacy as old as history. All experience points t o
the conclusion that in tho same ratio as a punitien
exceeds in severity what is demanded by ihe
crime, so will the punition act, not, as Mr. Win-
peykk supposes, as a deterrent, but as an en-
couragement to that crime. Mr. Justice Win-
dkter, indeed, needs to learn the alphabet of this
subject. As long ago as 1830 Brougham wrote ;
“ Precisely as a punishment exceeds the offence,
so will the offence be promoted by the excess of
punishment, not, as common-sense would suggost,
restrained and discouraged.” The history of re-
cent crime in New South Wales assuredly sup-
ports Brougham’s argument, and disproves that
of Windeyer.
New South Wales Freetraders make a great
deal of the differential railway rates. By quoting
the comparative railway tariff’ on imports and
farming produce, they show that the rates alto-
gether favour the importing merchant. We don’t
deny it. But we would point out that Free-
traders act very illogically in advocating a re-
adjustment and an equalisation of the rates, as a
cure for the present disadvantages handicapping
the tiller of the soil. If the merchant were charged
the same rate as at present is charged the farmer,
the latter would have to pay the increase in the
price of whatever imports he purchased. If it is
a good thing for the farmer to buy imported goods
at all—the cheaper he can buy them the better.
If the Government conveyed imported goods from
Sydney by the New South Wales railways, free of
charge, so much the better for the farmer, accord-
ing to the Freetraders’ own argument.
♦
That loyal female, Sir William Robinson,
Governor of South Australia, is toiling for Jubilee
copperi, thougli so far one of the unemployed
could eat out all the subscriptions in yesterday’s
buns. Here is an extract from the Robinsonian
gush :
“ The beat way of giving effect to the Prince of Wales's
w i a hes and of affording ihe people of this colony an oppor-
tunity of sharing in an undertaking conceived for the pur-
pose of oom oaemorating .the love and respect entertained
for our Most Gracious Sovereign by all her Majesty’s
subjects, would'probably be that the v arious municipal and
other loial governing bodies aho lid be invited to take such
steps as may appear to them most desirable for organising
throughout their several municipalities and districts com-
mittees for obtaining subscriptions toward the end in view.”
The Plain Parochial Bill of South Australia seems
to have sunk so low over this job that he might
as well have issued his appeal to policemen and
inspectors of nuisances while he was at it. When
he shunts the Jubilee Institute blow out on to the
local mayors, and they pass it on to the aldermen,
and the aldermen shove it on the town clerks, and
the latter hand it over to the dog-inspectors, there
is not much hope left for pcor, gaunt, hungry
Wales. If a Jubilee could be celebrated by tbe
abolition of money-lenders, snobs, and Chinamen,
and by teaching Premier Parkes the rudiments
of politics, we would subscribe.
CORRESPONDENCE
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MSS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of such
MSS.
“ Subscriber” (Wellington, N.Z.) : As you justly
observe, the romance is too romantic....“ Erratum” : Miss
Bella Guerin, of Ballarat, who obtained her degree in 1883,
was the first graduate of Melbourne University, The same
lady was also first M.A., having acquired that distinction in
December, 1886....“ Protectionist “ (Grenfell): Items too
sultry, and not of general Australian interest...." J.B.’’
(Wagga): We don’t know why Mr. Dibbs was not asked to
fill the Speaker's chair. Possibly it was because members
knew that he couldn’t fill the Treasury “ J. M'Donald **
Your verse this time is as tottering as a staunch Freetrader
on his way home from a late sitting “ Joseph Hymes ” :
We will inquire into the whole system.. ..“Vincit
Veritas”: Items are of a useful class “Rough”:
Not suitable for publication in its present form
“Audax”:No one, save her Majesty’s secretary, knows
what her income totals. Her savings on the annual vote of
£385,000 must be very large, and her investments amount to
unknown millions. Prince Albert's will was never proved, so
there is no knowing what capital he left to his surviving
partner, and O'Neill, who bequeath :d half-a-million to the
Queen, had various imitators. The annual calculation puts
the Queen’s investments at £11,000,000, but the exact
total amount cannot be ascertained ..“SW.H.”: That
fire subject is too hot to bo touched “ Idiot May work
up your genealogical chart which heart undeniable internal
evidence of unimpeachable truth “ C.M.G.”: It is quite
true that when R. B. Smith first entered the N.S.W. Assem-
bly he represented only a very small minority of the electors.
He was beaten horribly by Mr. Dease at his first contest, but
upset the latter on a technical point, and gained the seat
thus. (2.) Yes, he calls himself a Protectionist, but is much
too gentlemanly to be anything much in p rlitics
“ Bowden ”: Earl Cairns, formerly Lord G rmoyle, did not
marry Miss Fortescue; he paid forfeit (or rather his dad
did) to the tune of £lO,OOO and exes, rather than go on with
the match. He is said to have shifted his affections into her
yard once more, but we don't think the rumour will pan out
more than two colours of golden truth to the load of lurid
lie,...“Wainui”: We don’t see any more point in it
than in an oration by Burdekin, and as we don’t know the
banged-haired girl, we don’t care a rap who marritd her....
“W. Cruden": We have to thank you for several useful
items “Atlas”: The address is just a clipper-rigged,
central-fire, bevel-edged daisy, and will have ample notice.
“ Wilcannia”: We cannot interfere in such a case. Your
townspeople have the remedy in their own hands “Sur-
vey": The subject has full notice in another column
“P. A. Wilson ” : We have this assurance from Colonel
Morgan, the U.S Consul-General at Melbourne —" General
H. R. M’lver served with me in the Regular Army of Egypt
as Colonel of Cavalry in the ye.tr 1870. Gsneral M’lver was
an officer in the late Confederate'States Army, and was one
of the American officers selected by Major-General Thadeus
P. Mott, agent of His Highness the Khedive if Egypt .to
serve in his army....“ E.W.H.” : Everybody has ht ard
Gracie Plaisted's mother sing in Sydney. Fmslie
isn’t old enough to have such a daughter “ E.W.H,” :
Ptease ca 11...." H. Ryan ” (Wollongong): Thanks. Subject
however is now played 0ut....” G. C. H.” (Badmiin) : Pleate
ca 11....” Lunatic”: One verse alone is libcllously >uffjcient :
“ 1 This child who’s to corns in the future.” said Nick
(And here from his nostrils flew sparks
Of sulphurous flames), and speaking out quick,
‘ tjhall be christened f}ir Henry of Paries ' ”
....“ E.W.W.” : Yes, and hid Pa' kes remained in benighted
Victoria a little longer he might have ascertained how it is
that the Victori ans, who are strangled by the thraldom of
Protection, contrive to start and maintain so many large
factories; how they have struggled so far aheul with their
irrigation schemes; h,w th .'y have succeeds 1 in planking
down £BO,OOO for the encouragement of gold prospecting,
and how in thunder they have worked the agricult >rial in-
dustry so as to grow three times as much wheat as N.S.W.
does in a country three times as large rs the'rs “ Janus
Abern ’’: When Parkes wrote in his new book of poems
about Brougham’s “ thunderous snow-capped old head ’’he
was evidently thinking not so much of Brougham as of him-
self " JSwen M." : Will read your MS “A.H.H.”:
Thanks “ A H.' (Waleha, N.S.W.) : Too long and thin
and melancholy....” CW.” : Nonsense. Place the most
honest and pleasing face bohiud the rails of a dock and it at
once becomes a face that expresses eeyery passion. As Byron
says: —
“In the crowd
Your thief looks
Exactly like the rest, or rather better ;
’TI« only at the bar and in the dungeon
That your trine men know your felon, by kin features
But I’ll engage that if seen there but once,
Whether he be found criminal or no,
His face shall be so.”
Apropos, what does Charles Lamb write about a thiefs
ability to look a honest man fair in the eyes?
A home paper reports that Private Wagg,
who fought in the glorious cause at Abu Klea and
was prodded by eleven spears in eleven different
spots, was rewarded by a pension of one shilling
per day for twelve months Her Majesty, how*
ever, now finds that he is not likely to live long, so
she has decreed that the shattered wreck of Wagg
should receive 10s. fid. a week for life. Fame,
two wooden legs, and eighteenuenco a day, all put
together, form a noble institution.
Some miserable chosen vessel in N.Z. has
been building a little joke for himself and enjoying
it. His racket was calling sinners to repentanoc,
and the day before Caffrey and Penn were exe-
cuted he sent them each a pamphlet entitled
“Condemned to Death.” This gay production
had a skull and cross-bones on the cover, and
inside, in addition to a lot of interesting reading
anent a murderer who died repentant, there was
a sketch of the hero dangling at the end of a rope.
A few choice remarks about hell closed the pro-
ceedings. The holy shoet, however, missed its
mark, it being chucked into a burning, fiery
furnace by the warder on duty.


The Referee
On Monday evening last “ Young Mit-
chell,” from California, and Murphy met at law-
rence Foley’s hall to box “ to a finish ” for a purse
of 50 sovereigns given by Foley. Mitchell, who
comes over here with a big paper reputation from
the States, is a splendidly-built youngster. Mon-
day night he looked on the big side, and could not
have scaled less than ten stone and a half, in
great contrast to Murphy’s muscular but attenu-
ated looking Bst. 41b. Murphy fought right hand
and foot in front, and in his usual shifty style
completeiy outfought the Yankee in the first three
rounds, dealing out all the punishment that was
inflicted. In the fourth round Murphy tired, and
the men came together, when Mitchell’s
weight and strength told, and he knocked Murphy
to pretty well a standstill. But had Murphy
had seconds with any knowledge of ring tactics,
or the simplest acquaintance with the Queens-
berry rules, the little ’un would have been
awarded the fight, as Mitchell repeatedly held him
by the nape of the neck with one hand whilst he
uppercut with the other. In this round Murphy
severely hurt his right wrist, but he came up
game as a pebble for the fifth, when, at the ter-
mination of the three minutes allowed by Queens-
berry rules he was all but done up, with Mitchell
completely blown. Had the timekeeper sent the
men to their corners, there is no knowing how the
fight might have ended, as Murphy had condition
on his side, and the minute’s spell might have
pulled him together again. But the time-keeper
appeared to have gone in for a nap, and four
minutes having passed and no “ corners ” called,
Larry Foley humanely jumped on the stage and
threw up the sponge on behalf of Murphy.
Mitchell was thoroughly exhausted at the finish,
and did not show himself a boxer of the stamp the
writer had expected. A match is now talked of
between Mitchell and Jack Hall, who has come
over from Tasmania with that object in view.
The men are much of a weight, and should a
meeting take place we have little doubt but that
Hall will heat the American from start to finish.
* • •
This (Thursday) evening Slaven and
Dooley meet at Lawrence Foley’s for their long-
pending match “to a finish.” Mick Dooley is a
clever boxer, and a better “trial horse” Foley
could not have picked upon for Slaven, whom the
ex-champion expects to manufacture into a cham-
pion. Both men have been in strict training for
weeks past, and the lofer can for ever after hold
his peace, so far as condition is concerned.
A couple of incidents in connection with cer-
tain large “consultations” are now much talked of.
One is the rather monotonous —to the losers - fre-
quency with which a Sydney boniface collars
big money ; and the other the remarkable fact
that the last number with which the Botany
Handicap Sweep closed should draw one of the
favourites.
» * •
The hot weather, and price of admission,
did not succeed in frightening a big attendance
from Frank Smith’s Botany Handicap on Satur-
day last. The final was left for decision by P J.
Maloney, 17yds. ; J. W. Byrnes, 17$yds. ; T.
Geddes, 19yds. ; and H. Hutchens, the English
crack, and they finished in the order named in the
stated time of 13 2-osec. The winner hails from
Melbourne, and the runner-up, Byrnes, is the
phenomenal N.S. Wales-born hurdle racer. The
betting was 6 to 4 on Hutchens, and Maloney and
Byrnes were each at 2 to 1.
In the absence of a genuine old dogfight
commend us to a Grieco-Itoman wrestling match.
Cannon and Connors had their little worrying
match in Melbourne on Saturday night, when
after 33 minutes rongh-and tumble and wallowing
on the stage like a couple of mad dogs, Connors
got on a “ back hammerlock and half Nelson,”
under which mild persoasion Cannon was induced
to rest upon his two shoulders, whilst Connors sat
upon him for the stipulated number of seconds to
secure “ a fall.” The doctor, as usual, was called
in, when it was announced that Cannon had re-
ceived an injury to his neck —which, however,
was not quite broken, and was unable to con-
tinue the match.
* * *
The fight for “a score” between Jack
Molloy and “ Milky,” which came off at Foley’s
on Saturday night, does not take much telling.
“ Shake hands, boys; stand back, time!" from
the stentorian lungs of “ Jack ” Thompson, and
the lads are at it. A counter, of which Milky
gets the worst; a remark from the smitten one, “ a
stinger, that, Jack ; ” a crashing right hander by
Molloy on the point of Milky’s jaw, and the
flutter for a score is a matter of history, as Milky
is at the end of ten seconds unable to resume.
There has been wailing and handing over
of cash by the “Professor” M’Carthy-Graham
Combination at Silverton. The Professor, who is
stated to be in grand trim—for an aldermanic
dinner—wagered £25 to nothing that he could
knock out one Pat Carroll in six Queensberries.
He failed, and the Carroll party annexed the
“sugar.” Since the advent of the Professor all
Silverton has bjen thirsting for gore. A butcher
has knocked the stuffing out of a restaurant-
keeper in one act. A young gentleman is up be-
fore the beak for putting a head on a man who
was rude to his Sunday girl; and a broker's clerk
prowls round with a pair of mice under his eyes
and a scalped nose, looking for something to
devour. Ore dtt that the Professor is to be
tendered “ a tea ” and illuminated address by the
local Young Men’s Christian Association.
* * *
The handicap skiff race in connection with
the Sydney Mercantile Rowing Club came off on
Saturday last. Mr. Freeman, a strapping young
fellow who promises the makings of a first-class
man, won the first, heat ; Wickham secured the
eecond. and George Robertson, of the Glebe Row-
ng Club the third. In the final Freeman and
Wickham fouled, and were locked together until
Robertson had about five lengths to the good.
George Robertson, who is pretty sure of a seat in
the intercolonial eight, is just now in good condi-
tion, and the writer does not think the foul made
any difference in the result of the race.
* * •
In a six-round encounter between John
L. Sullivan and Patsy Cardiff, the champion is
said to have fractured a small bone in the forearm
during the first round, but he managed to hide the
injury until the termination of the six rounds. In
this connection Mrs. John L., who, by the way, is
separated from John L., has “turned dog” upon
her hubby and “given him away.” “This is
another of Mr. John L.’s lying dodges,” says his
gentle better-half; “ Patsy Cardiff was too much
for him, and he invented the broken arm to save
himself from a whipping. He lumps at a man at
the start, and if he doesn't finish him in a couple
of rounds he loses his wind and cries baby. I
remember one time when he met Mitchell he told
me the Englishman would have done him up in
another round. He is a big brute and a coward ”
Tom Cribb used to say the only man in the world
he was afraid of was his wife. She weighed just
seven stone.
# * *
When are the Melbourne Cricket Club
going to issue a balance-sheet re their last spec. ?
That is what the Sydney cricketers want to know.
The Wagga “ push ” had rather a lively,
if not pleasant, time at the recent Temora races.
They fell foul of the “ sleeper choppers ” now
located at that township, and the latter, mistaking
the Waggaites for stringy-barks, chopped them up
to order.
• * *
The irrepressible L. L. Smith, of Mel-
bourne, is stated to have entered yearlings for the
English Derby, an expensive game, considering
that the first and only forfeit for the Epsom event
is 25 sovereigns. If the leech should despatch a
nag to represent Austra’ia, he might push trade
by calling it “ Don't you feel well, young man?”
The name would excite inquiry, and fix the eyes
PATRICK AGAIN.
“HOWLD ON, MISTBER. IF YE'D ONLY GET OFF AND JUST TAKE A LOOK AT
YERSELF YE’D GET ON AGAIN AND NEVER RIDE ANY MORE.”
of England upon the bold pamphleteer. By the
way, it would seem from home papers that L. L.
Smith is “ Doctor ” —out of the colony.
* * *
The Queensland aboriginal sprinter, Combo,
has come down to Sydney. He is “ own brother
belongah” Charlie Samuels, and is said to be
the faster of the two. He will have to learn a
good deal before he can make running remunera-
tive ; he must learn when to run and when nob A
couree of instruction from some of the champion
sprinters would be very beneficial.
* * *
Four days’ play in the match Victoria v.
Englishmen drew a total attendance of something
under 4000 people. The way in which the pro-
fessionals nursed their opponents was certainly
artistic Victoria went in first and ran up a long
seore for four wickets. As soon as an “ interest-
ing” first stage was assured, the pros, woke up
and rattled down another five wickets —making
nine wickets for the first day. Then England
went in and topped the Victorian score by 40 odd
runs, “interest still being well sustained.” In
their second attempt the Victorians were again
nursed, up to a certain point, and when the fourth
day was at hand they had lost five wickets for 137.
When it was found that the “ promise of an ex-
citing finish ” had only attracted a beggarly hand-
ful to the “bob” seats, the Englishmen finished
off their job in disgust. The other five Victorian
wickets went down for 19 runs, and the English-
men knocked up the requisite 119 for the loss of
Bates, who gave a chance after scoring 86 in 100
minutes. It is a pity that Shrewsbury’s crowd
are to leave without playing a fair test match
against a picked Australian team on a first-class
wicket Last trip, as this, they were twice beaten
on the Sydney ground, but in a farewell match at
Melbourne they roasted an Australian eleven in
one innings.
• *
Dead calms and sea-sickness were the prin-
cipal items in connection with the Prince Alfred
Yacht Club race round a boat off Wollongong and
back, which started at half-past eight on Friday
evening, and finished at three o’clock on Sunday
morning. The starters were Sao, Assegai, J. S.
Poyen, and Lotus, some of the larger boats not
competing in consequence of the ridiculous condi-
tion that each yacht should tow a dingy. The
winner turned up in the American centreboarder
| J. S. Poyen, but the race was of such a “ fluky”
nature that it was no criterion of the respective
speed of the yachts in a seaway.
* * *
A correspondent, “ J.W.,” writes enquir-
ing as to the bona-fide* of a certain race-consulta-
tion. In reply we have only to state that a man
who, under present conditions, puts any of his
money into any sweep whatsoever, is worse than
a fool, and deserves to die in the gutter.
The meeting of the Paperchase club, at
Canterbury Park, was not an unqualified success.
Great excitement was caused in the steeplechase
by the conduct of one noble steed who insisted on
kicking three panels out of the saddling paddock
gate before he could be induced to start. When
they started he raced to the first jump, but as he
found it inconveniently high he turned round and
started to kick it down. The crowd yelled out
to his very amateur rider to sit back and not give
the horse a headache. As the horse found it im-
possible to belt the middle rail out of the fence
his rider took him back to the paddock, presum-
ably to get an axe to chop the fence down with.
Some of the riders' costumes were very various,
like Lord Bertie's in his famous appearance at
Randwick, but we did not hear of any one being
fined,
* * *
Mr. W. Long has made a present of the
Agent to a friend. The last hurdle race the Agent
ran in he broke his shoulder. That was why Bill
Long gave him away, no doubt. Still, if the
horse can be got right enough for stud purposes
he is a valuable present, as there are few horses
with the Agent’s quality and strength.
It is authentically recorded that W. West-
hall, the famous English pedestrian, beat H. A.
Reid, 120 yards, £25 aside, at Flora Gardens,
Bay water, September 1, 1851; won £lO (from
scratch) in a 7-mile Walking Handicap, beating
four others, time 58min. 40s. (same place and
day); won £2O in a match to tun 2 miles in lOmin.
He had 4secs to spare (same place and day) ; beat
W. Newman in a 5-mile walking match, £lO
a-side. Time 41min. .'iOseci. (same place and
day.) What do the latter-day pedestrians think
of th's ?
This is a Northern story, and it is vouched
for by a bookmaker, an auctioneer, and a parson,
about the best combination of the world, the
flesh, and the other fellow that anyone could
imagine. An elderly widow vegetated in the
colonial capital; she was very rich, her chief
companion was a pretty niece aged 16, and a nice
young man used to call on the latter. The widow,
however, fell in love with him and made tender
proposals; he held out for terms, and ultimately
it was arranged that th»y were to be married and
he was to receive £lOOO a year out of her fortune.
The young man also made an arrangement with
the niece, and the vedding took place. After 12
months or so, hoar, ver, the white-winged dove of
peace brooded no longer over the shanty. The
elderly wife still cooed to her husband, but
she kept a bilious green eye on the niece,
and though she could find no direct evi-
dence of faithlessness, she took out her sus-
picions by wbalii g the young lady in private with
a vigour that did credit both to her arms
and her switch This went on for a year or so
and then one mcrnirg it dawned on the old virago
that she hada’t whaled hard enough, for the girl
and the husband were both gone. A letter that
remained behind explained that they had meant
to wait three year? in order to save enough money
for a start in life, but too much switch had re-
solved them to hasten matters. A P.S. further
pointed out that, bei r g still rather hard up they
bad made up the deficiency out of the old lady’s
bank account. It proved only too true. The
slim young husband and the littls niece who to-
gether had seemed unable to say “ boo ” to a
decent sized goose, had fixed up a cheque, and had
walked off with enough gold to load a cab.
BRIEF MENTION.
A public service jubilee banquet is to be
held in Melbourne on May 24th.
“ Chilled Meat ” is the name they have
for a corpse in kalizoic Bourke, N.S.W,
“Dog-racing is to be introduced to Vic-
toria." We doubt this, because dogs run square.
A new syndicate township has started near
Melbourne called La Bose. It is so called because
Roses grow there without weeding.
A Melbourne paper publishes an under-
taker’s advertisement nnder the heading of
“ Missing Friends.” There is much humour in
this—for the undertaker.
John Gilpin has just appeared for the 70th
time before the Beak at Glasgow for drunkenness.
He has never got over the havoc wrought on his
system by that disastrous ride on horseback last
century,
“For sale — cows and customers,” is an
advertisement that appeared last week in one of
the Sydney dailies. We don’t know about the
cows, but we feel certain that the customers will
be sold.
A monster hen-egg has been bom at
Smythesdale (Vic). It weighs 3ozs. 3dwts ac-
cording to the nearest newspaper. No wonder
statesmen like Parkes and Dibbs are rare in
Victoria,
There is considerable discussion in Mel-
bourne at the present time about the best means
of utilising the Yarra water. Why not rent it to
Chinese gardeners ? As liquid manure it should
fetch a high price.
From Sydney E News, 14th March :
“ The name of , solici-
tor, Bundaberg (Q.), has been struck off the rolls
for misappropriation of a client’s mother.” Some
lawyers would steal anything.
A Queensland publican supplied an
aboriginal with rum nnder the impression that he
was an American nigger. The magistrate fined
the publ'can £1 under the impression that the
publican was either a fool or a knave.
A New Zealand paper states that a man
has been found dead in a pass of the Southern
Alps. “ His family was grazing near. He leaves
a wi'e and horse quite unprovided for.” What a
family, and, Great Scott 1 what a horse I
They have just held their annual swim-
ming match at Geelorg (Vic.) Geelong is the
slowest and most ealvation-armied town in the
colony. Still, it is consoling to know that part of
the inhabitants take a bath once a year.
Two tigers escaped from St. Leon’s Circus,
between Brewarrina and Walgett, The inhabit-
ants were veiy frightened, because the locality
had n t been incorporated, and in fact they had
never beheld an alderman, nor even an M.L.A.
At Dunedin, N.Z., a little while ago, after
a prominent Jewish citizen had been buried for
some days, rumours of foul play arose, and it was
decided to examine the body. This was done,
and in the coffin were found three packs of play-
ing cards, each containing four or more aces.
Everything else was all right.
Mrs. Rowberry, a lsdy carrying on a retail
business in Wellington (N.Z ), advertises in one of
the local papers as follows :
“ —Finding that the Old Man hag been round
to several of my coptomers, I give notice that he is
not now in my employ.—Mas. Rowberry.”
Rough on the old man, isn’t it? Wonder where
he’ll get a job next, seeing that the wife of his
bosom has erst him off, and he is not now in her
employ !
“All we say is,” said the reverend editor
of the Hkli, Fire Budget and Weekly Three-
penny Bit (Melbourne) “ that our paper is a live
ore.’ “Admitted,” said a godless ci itic above ;
“yes, like meat in hot weather—the news is so
old.” Mepbistopheles when he heard this scored
one for himself on the tcoiing board, and turned
ai other ten degrees on in the religious persecu-
tors’ compartment.
The man who thought that P s-y-c-h-e
was the rummiest way of spelling fish that he
ever saw has been considerably exercised in his
mind of late by the sight o’ a shingle, near
Lavender Bay Ferry wharf, on which was painted
in 18 inch letters, the fol’owing legend : “ Steam
Yaughts Building Yards.” That Co. has “ gaught”
to build better than it spells, or it will be written
down as a bad “ laught.”
There is a gentleman in Melbourne who
advertises that he can teach a “new memory
system by which the learner can remember any-
thing. This should be a sweet boon for bullock-
drivers who have been much perplexed of late-
owing to the advance of the times and the spread
of progressive ideas among bullocks—in remem-
bering the scientific curses which alone will now
move anything like an educated team.
Here is a sample of sublime and touching
faith. V e take it from the advertising columns
of the Melbourne Age :—“ Would cabman who
received sovereign in mistake for shilling, Satur-
day night, in Melrose-street, call, &c. ? ” Would
he call ? Well, w e should guffaw 1 Of course he
will call. He has been lying awake at nights
miserable because he didn’t know where to find
the party who gave him that sovereign. Now he
will be happy, Oh, yes, he’ll call—in the winter.
A nice sort of legal fiction turns up in an
advertisement in the Melbourne dailies. A Ger-
man couit advertise! for a man who emigrated to
Australia in 1853, and if he doesn’t turn up he
will be “ declared dead.” He may not be dead
all the same, of course, but after he has been de-
clared dead we presume he will have nothing left
to live for. To avoid blighting his existence, how-
ever, the court might as well strike a healthy
average and declare him paralysed in both legs.
A high-class English traveller has just got
out of a rather tight place in San Francisco. Last
Christmas Day he filled himself up with malt
liquors and then he called at tne morgue ai d ex-
pressed a desire to see some five or six corpses
which were spending the festive season there in
peace and quietness. When he got in he struck a
match, and with extremely bad taste set fire to
the hair of the deceaseds, leaving them in a bald
and frizzled condition which was painful to wit-
ness. He has been in gaol moat of the time since,
but though the majesty of the law has been vindi-
sated, that does not bring back the hair; it is gene
for ever.
“ The Sydney Bulletin is the best-
written and selected paper, without exception, in
the Southern Hemisphere—the only paper I read
every word of. It’s my Sunday reading ”—J. L.
Dow, Victorian Minister of Lands.


SUNDRY SHOWS
Now that
Parkes is firmly
seated, the show
business begins to
exhibit signs of languishing, and
until the bottom falls out of
’Erry’s great white throne there
is not much hope of a permanent
recovery. Whenever the Man of
Hair is about there is language
and cursing, and already his
pompous march from the Joppa
of depravity to the Jerusalem of wealth and holi-
ness is being disfigured with calls to “come out-
side.” This sort of fun suits the public taste as
well as an opera, and a great deal better than a
commonplace drama, and it is cheaper than either.
Moreover, there is an uncertainty about it that
adds to the charm. In a drama the listener always
has a faint idea of what is going to happen next,
but when ’Enry breaks out in a fresh spot with
three fresh drivels at once he generally hits an
entirely new asylum, and it is that which keeps
the old showman going. If the warcry only goes
round that Henry is making an unusually Bhifty
ass of himself he can empty the theatres in no
time, and of late he seems to have set hiqsself
deliberately to damage business.
** * *
As a measure of precaution we mean to
take a portable epileptic fit with us when next we
visit Sydney Gaiety. It will be a large brass-
bound fit that will spread right along the front
row, and with its assistance we hope to get
through even such a piece as “ Crime ' and sur-
vive the operation. This remarkable melodrama
is divided into four sins, and each of the four is
sickening in its blank stupidity. As a matter of
amusement a tortoise-shell kitten having convul-
sions in our Sunday hat can give it 50 points out
of 75, and to be chased three miles by a bilious
bulldog is calm joy by comparison. In the first
scene we have a whistling flunkey making love to
a slavey, and we recognise an old acquaintance.
When last we saw this flunkey he was helping to
run an Irish panorama in Queensland, and was
touching up the scenery with a shovel to make it
gee. Then there is a small officer bound for Egypt,
and a large girl to whom he is engaged, and close
behind comes a baronet in off-coloured shirt-cuffs
who is out for the day and wants a lark. He gives
the wink to another large girl, and thea, as far as
we can understand, he lays for the small military
weed in the back yard and hits him on the head
with a tree. The effect is not so bad as might be
expected, for the soldier was born stunned, and the
concussion only makes him keep on as b fore, but
somehow or other he marries the wrong large girl,
and the baronet weds the wide female who
should have been the other fellow’s lovely bride.
When the tree is lifted off his head the officer finds
out what a mistake he has made, but alas! it is
too late. „
The two husbands turn up, seedy, dingy,
cursing, and dead-broke at Homburg, and there
the baronet sees a Chinese Frenchman bobbing
before a female and smiling his upper stomach
with his hand. He straightway shoots the female,
and when it is too late he finds that the large girls
have somehow got mixed again and he ha* killed
the wrong one. Ihe other husband flies becauje
he can’t pay his hash bill, and when he is n*xt
seen he is sitting on a stump in Australia with a
girl on his knee. He is stuck up by thi ee bush-
rangers, among them being the baronet and his
brother, and as gory exoressions issue from his
head, they naturally tie him to a tree and leave
him to dry. One of the robbers is detailed to
watch over him, and this gentleman not having
as much brains as a fat woman in a side show
puts a keg of powder under him, lays a tram, and
falls asleep. A nigger strolls in, blows away tlle
train with a pair of bellows, takes a drink from a
bottle, and not likieg the liquor spits it out at the
bushranger’s head, and finally frees the prisoner,
who has to stop a moment and hold up the tree.
After this corpses fly through the air in all direc-
tions, and the small hero starts back to Eng-
land in search of the large girl who warn t
killed. The nigger comes with him and
moves in good society, attired only in his
loin-cloth. The bushranging baronet turns up
again just as this child of nature is stealing some
pap from the flunkey’s baby, and tries to wrench a
clean shirt out of a portmanteau, but before he
can decipher the name on the tail he is shot, and
the dishcloth comrs down. [After this our faithful
dog leads us home. #
Mr. Arthur Vivian appears from the pro-
gramme to be a leading member of the company,
but he merely makes up as a hideously vulgar
larrikin called Happy-go Bill, and jells a comic
song. Mr. James Thynne’s nigger is very good
in many respects ; Miss Amy Nelson is also a
tolerable success, and the rest of the oompany are
perfectly gorgeous.
## # #
Any respectable bull-gentleman who is
going down to a drunkard’s grave might do much
worse than visit “Macbeth ” at the Royal Standard
en route This tragedy was constructed by derang-
ing history and disorganising fact, but it looks
more reliable than a good many of the choked-up
truths which we meet in this vale of tears and
that is everything. The original Macbeth was a
Scotchman in a disgraoefully short kilt, who
maintained his seat on the throne for t everal years.
The throne was of wood and rather oold, but Mac-
beth wore flannel under his kilt, and thereby
avoided takiDg a chill, and his reign was a happy
one until fate knocked the bottom out of the in-
verted tub and let him down in a heap. In later
years he got his legs full of brambles while chas-
ing a cow through the scrub, and after that he
gave up the brief, uncertain garment and wore
armour until his death—an arrangement which
had much to recommend it, as he was always able
to strike a match on the back of his pants of mail,
whereas the kilt did not readily lend itself to such
a purpose. In his old age Macbeth got into an
altercation with a short, fihiok agriculturist from
Fife and got the worst of it ; he was knocked
down with a ho®, and then his enemy sat on his
head until he died from want of oxygen. When
the early Celtic coroner arrived and rolled Maoduff
off he found that the poor old warrior beneath had
been feather-bedded until he was black in the
face, so the saddened official decided that he could
only put up his umbrella and go back home again.
He wanted to return an open verdict, but when
he attempted it Maoduff drove him off with a
spado. . , .
Mr. Dampier’s Macbeth was a decidedly
good performance, though at times he whooped
from his ancestral battlements in a way that was
trying to the drum of the human ear. But he
looked every inch a king—not the bald, pimpled,
doubled up king of the present day, but the old
variety which prevailed before kings began to go
out at night and cadge on the nobility for cheap
beer. Miss Dampier, as Lady Macbeth, looked
pretty and graceful, but she was not equal to the
job, all the same. It take 3 a large, fierc?, raw-
boned, shock-headed female to strew the world
with human bones as Macbeth’s Queen did, and
Miss Dampier lacks several of these qualities.
Mr. Holloway, as Macduff, also, was not built to
order. He was too small, too stout, and too
aggravating, and when he twirled his little legs
round in his last struggle with Macbeth, he did
not leave the impression he intended on the audi-
ence. He was stern, hoarse, and vengeful, and he
looked fierce enough to grind corn with his head,
but it requires more than that to make a good
warrior of the ancient time. There was nothing
worth throwing a brick at in the other characters;
but Mr. T. H. Rainford, “ the popular basso,” and
the orchestra generally deserved a medal of some
tough and durable material.
** * *
“ Girofle-Girofla ” is doing pretty good
business at Sydney Criterion. There i 3 nothing
very fresh about this opera, but it is at least
more interesting than falling out of a three-storey
window on top of one’s mother-
in-law, and the performance goes
smoothly throughout. The char-
acter of Mourzouk is well filled
by Signor G. Verdi, who has his
legs frescoed in dark-brown tints.
He puts the needful amount of
ferocity into the character, and
when he is left alone with anything
perishable the smash that ensue j
is rememberBome. Mr. Armes
Beaumont makes a tolerable suc-
cess as Marasquin ; Mr. John Ford
is strikingly good as Don Bolero ;
and Miss Colbourne-Baber as two
girls at once, acts rather better
than usual. Miss Fanny Liddiard
has a very poor part as Pedro,
but she plays and sings it ex-
cellently. Lastly, Miss Ethel Har-
court, as Aurore, wears a fixed
blush round the eyes, which is
hardly the right place to put it.
If it is moveable we would
strongly urge her to shift ta little
lower down next time, and also
to spread it out slightly towards
her ears, and we are confident
that the result will be satisfactory
to all concerned.
#* * #
The heroes of Italian opera
have a beastly habit of weeping at
the tombs of their ancestors, and
this custom of theirs keeps the
opera always damp. Kdgar of
Ravenswood is no exception to
the general rule, and we don’t
think he improves “ Lucia di
Lammermoor ” by his conduct in
this respect. He is a painfully
hard-up swell, h*s sole astets con-
sisting of a ruined tower which
echoes to the washy stutterings of
the cold, cantankerous sea. and 5 et
bedoesn’tgo to work or float a com-
pany as any energetic young man would do, but
moans round the parish ceme'ery, and finally
sticks a dagger into h's innards. This sort of
thing looks well in poetry, but in the newspapers
it would he headed “ Suicide of a Tramp,” and
the item would close with an inventory of the
stuff that was found in his pockets. Our objec-
tions, however, are strictly confined to the hero who
roosts among the damp bricks of Ravenswood
We turned up at Sydney Roya’ on Monday
and witnessed a performance that wa3
magnificent in every respect. Signorina Alice
Rebottaro, as Lucia, was an unqualified success
all along, her singing, her acting, and her
personal attractions being about equal, and her
flute obligato was the best event of the evening.
Signor Tomaso de Alba—in private we allude to
him as Jenkins for brevity, and we beg to apolo-
gise for the liberty—showed his fine bass voice at
its best in the part of Raimondo ; and Signor San-
tinelli, though a secondary light in this instance,
was very successful as the damp hero among the
tombs. Signor Cerne, as Enrico, and Signor
Benucci, as Arturo, carried off the rest of the
lau r els—a barrowload of them.
** * *
To-night (Thursday) “Robert Emmett”
takes the place of “Hide and Seek” at Sydney
Opera House. The new piece is Irish and patriotic,
and the various Hibernian societies mean to shed
their last cent to see it, even if they have to go
without socks.
* it * *
The Japanese Village, at Sydney Exhibi-
tion Building, now includes a lot of new attrac-
tions. The sensation of the show is the jump
made by one of the acrobats from the floor to the
roof, or thereabouts, and back again. Any fool,
of course, could go from the roof to the floor, but
very few could manage the trip the other way,
and it is this that makes the feat worth seeing.
** # *
“ Ihdas ” is now on view at Sydney
Waxworks. Nature started to make this lady
from the head downwards, bat when it was
half through the job it went away to look at a
dog-fight and left her incomplete. That's our
theory.
#* * *
Signor Agrati’s company are prospering at
Sydney Academy. Space is short this issue, but
we intend to hire a specially qualified liar to blow
about this affair next week.
# =* # *
The Lynch Family of Bellringers, unless
struck by retributive lightning in the interval, will
open in Sydney on Thursday night, 17 th inst.
** * *
The Grattan Riggs with Charles M‘Mahon
as dry-nurse will open at Sydney Opera House on
Saturday in “ The Irish Detective.”
## # #
Mr. H. Redwood, it will interest his hun-
dreds of friends to know, still lies ill of paralysis
at the Alfred Hospital, Sydney. However, he has
of late so marvellously improved that Dr. Shewen
has hopes of, in the long run, putting him on his
feet again, after all.
#* * *
A good many people will be surprised to
hear that Nelly Power, the original “ La-di-dah.”
is dead. Nelly was one of the best singers and
dancers who ever appeared on the burlesque
stage, and while still a very young girl she made
a hit as Robinson Crusoe in a Drury Lane panto-
mime. For some years she was leading lady in
burlesque at the Vaudeville, and might have been
well married times out of number. With the
shortsightedness of her class, Nellie—herself a
Jewess—skipped to the altar with a reputed rich
Jew, one Lazarus Israel Gideon Barnett. Giddy
Gideon hadn’t a cent, to his name, and Nellie
ultimately took to the London music halls, as a
“ star ”of gradually diminishing magnitude. She
was only 34 when she died.
*# # #
Miss Minnie Palmer and her company
have bobbed up again serenely at Melbourne
Bijou, in something worthy of more sober con-
sideration than “My Sweetheart.” The new bill
is the “The Schoolmistress,” by Pinero. As a
farcical comedy it is rather wilder and wittier
than “ The Magistrate,” and has been running for
a year and more in London. A certain “ Miss ”
Dyott, who runs a finishing academy for fair
daughters of the nobility and gentry, varies the
monotony of her life by marrying an impecunious
“ masher,” and accepting an opera bouffe engage-
ment for the Christmas vacation. This is a secret
self-sacrifice for the sake of hubby, who is to
know nothing about the engagement but only to
help spend the salary. The Schoolmistress leaves
him in charge of four pretty pupils, one of whom
has slyly plunged into the sea of matrimony with
a boy of seventeen, It has been arranged that
the boy shall claim his bride and bear her away to
SIGNORINA REBOTTARO.
furnished apartments on the very night of the
lady principal’s departure, and the girls conspire
to furnish a bridal supper in the schoolroom. Miss
Dyott’s husband, in charge of the Academy, has
contemplated a male orgie on his own account.
The wickedest of the pupils discovers his nefari-
ous scheme and frightens that feeble masher into
turning the supper into a ioint stock company—
champagne unlimited. It is successfully floated
The boy comes for his young bride, and the
masher’s visitors include an angry admiral, who
happens to be the bride’s father, but doesn t re-
cognise his offspring or realise where he is, for in-
genious reasons not worth entering into. The
school catches fire owing to the page’s penchant
for fireworks, and the company slide down a fire-
escape, and make for the admiral’s house just as
the schoolmistress unexpectedly returns in hot
haste and stage costume. A third act is devoted
to complications and explanations. In the hands
of first-class comedians “ The Schoolmistress”
would be a sparkling comedy. As played at the
Bijou it is a howling farce almost throughout,
sufficiently funny to suggest what might have
been. Miss Minnie Palmer, as the mischievous
pupil who starts all the trouble, gives a charming
misrepresentation of her part. The grimaces,
mock tragedy tones, and affected “juvenilities” of
the impossible Tina do duty once again. An in-
terpolated song and dance by Miss Palmer and
Mr. Roberts is enough to tura the author’s hair
green with dismay. Mr. R. scores well as Vere
Queckett, the impecunious masher, and only oc-
casionally relapses into the nondescript ac-
cent peculiar to Fanny Faust. Mr. Inman
is manly and pleasant in a minor character ;
and a Mr. Harold Chichester makes up cl iverly
as the amorous benedict of 17. A careful Chris-
tian training invalidates us for the task of com-
mending Mr. Charles Brown’s conception of an
angry admiral, while Miss Ada Murray accom-
plishes something like a worst on record in
the name part. The good things she said were
strangled as they issued from her unsympathetic
lips. We timed Miss Ward to lose 20 laughs in
ten minutes by the watch. But, in spite of all
these short-comings, “The Schoolmistress” will
hum for some little time. Miss Palmer has pro-
cured three fair pupils who are as a fresh, green
oasis of naturalness in a desert of artificiality.
These young ladies are presumably debutantes ,
and they have debuted well. In appearance, cos-
tume, and bearing they are excellent. Time was
when we attended “ breaking-up” parties at girls’
schools, and we know the right article when we
see it.
Jfc :)£ #
From the Melbourne Age Theatrical
—Wanted Advance Agent, with £lO as security.”
Humph 1 £lO don’t seem much capital for a com-
pany to travel upon
** * *
“Forty Thieves,” at Melbourne Opera,
is served up with more glitter and less success
than “ Little Jack Sheppard.” Its fun is already
a little old-fashioned, and the incidental melodies
belong to the last decade. Mr. Brough and Miss
Fanny Robina work hard to galvanise fresh life
into such dead songs as “ He’s got ’em on,” but
the labour distresses them and does almost as
much for the audience. Mr. Royce has but a
poor pairt as Captain of the ” Forty,” and Mr,
Warde’s share of the fun is restricted to one
wonderful dance. Miss Emma Temple plays Mor-
giana with a lady-like abandon and wild sweet-
ness which is all her own, while the scenery and
legs show that the management has spared no
expense. Lord Cairns (late Gumboil) — our latest
novelty in gilded youth— has accorded his gracious
patronage to “ Forty Thieves," so the ballet ladies
are on the qui vive for diamond bracelets and
breaches of promise.
** * *
It is said that Gilbert writes his librettos
on lemon-squash. Well, he would last about three
weeks on this paper.
*# # #
George Darrell has, for five weeks past,
been lying very ill in Dr. Tarrant's priva’ e hos-
pital at Darlinghurst. Late reports declare him
to have at last taken a favourable turn- George,
say the docters, must have the heart of a lion : ha
walked about, and worked for days while in a
raging fever, and only lay down when more than
two-thirds dead.
** * *
Love-sick Stallite (referring to lady in
tights) : “ Isn’t she a creature to adore ? Ah, if I
thought I could win her affections!” K’nd friend :
“ Why not, old man, why not! Plenty of others
have succeeded.”
** * *
Messrs. James M‘Mahon and George
Leitch (the only M'Mahon and Leitch) have re-
turned to Wellington from the Cannibal Islands
very brown and with not too many clothes on.
Somebody is reported to have been usiDg their
names in their absence, and as the names are sup-
posed to have suffered much wear and tear in
consequence, several libel actions are likely to
ensue.
It is rumoured that Sir Henry Loch has
sacked Lord Deerhurst, who is to go back to his pa.
“ Ireland is in a bad state,” said the piou3
constitutionalist. “ And that State is the British
Empire,” was the retort.
The present name of the Queensland
Government Astronomer is Clement Wragge.
They are thinking of having him re-christened
“ Inclement.”
A letter from His Honor Judge Docker
will appear in next issue of The Bulletin. We
mention this not as an attraction but as a warn-
ing.
From Riverine Grazier —‘‘ On Tues-
day the licence of lattersall’s Hotel was trans-
ferred from Mrs. Patterson (nee Mrs. Esplint, to
Beniamin Armstrong." Are the Riverine women
bom married ?
Parkos, having learnt something from the
despised Victorians, means to abolish steam
motors in favour of cable-trams. Had he stayed
in Melbourne a fortnight instead of a week there
is no saying what else he might want to abolish.
0. A. V. Conybeare, M.P. for Cornwall,
is about to be prosecuted for denouncing the evic-
tion-by-burning system in Ireland. Conybeare
was a bit surprised when he saw the tenants’
houses anoim ed with kerosene; he at first thought
of going for the fire brigade.
As Parkes is retrenching, he should re-
vive his last motion of last year to reduce the
Speaker’s salary, as Young really isn’t worth as
much as Barton. And while his hand is in the
pie he might also add G. A Lloyd’s resolution for
reducing the Chairman of Committees’ screw.
Advertisement from Kensington News
(London) :
<‘ Y oung FEMALE PUG DOG.—If anyone owning
such will al ow of its oeing a companion to young
male pug oooasion.il y, will gladly give painting or
dressmaking lessons. Ethel, Messrs. Dennis, Stati rners,
Colville-terrace, Talbot-road, W."
Who gives the painting or dressmaking lessons ?
The female pug, or Ethel ?
Earl Dudley is an hereditary legislator,
but as he is not an hereditary J.P., he has been
freely asked why he should have occupied a seat
on the Bench at Melbourne City Police Court
during the hearing of the Sutton-Dee’’hurst case.
The answer is a simple one. He was possibly
anxious to view the scene of former family
triumphs. Two days previously Lady Lizzie
Mun “but this subject why pursue?’
Thomas Hall, the Timaru poisoner, has,
after all, escaped the swift death of the gallows,
and will be left to rot slowly in gaol under the old
sentence of life-imprisonment for attempting to
poison his wife. The N.Z. Court of Appeal has
quashed the capital sentence passed on him for
the murder by poison of Captain Cain, the reason
being that evidence relating to the attempted
murder of his wife was mixed with the testimony
on the new charge, and the minds of the jurymen
were, in all probability, influenced by this ex-
traneous matter. The decision will in the long
run prove a fortunate one for the cause of law
and order in these colonies. Thomas Hall may
be even worse than the bloodstained monster
he is already known to be, but it is better far that
he should escape than that he should be convicted
under such circumstances as marked the trial of
the Mount Rennie criminals in Sydney. The
frenzied disregard for every semblance of for-
mality which marked the investigation of the
latter case proved that in N. S. W., under some
circumstances, less deliberation marks a trial
involving the life of a great or sensational crimi-
nal than is ordinarily attendant upon the hearirg
of a cause involving a mere mercantile trumpery
dispute.
It will be interesting to watch the attitude
taken by the Parkes party in re M'Eihone’s pro*
posal that newspapers shall in future pay postage
in N.S.W. instead of being carried free as hitherto
at a cost to the colony of scores of thousands of
pounds. One thing is certain : the politician who
favours the admission to the colony, free of duty,
of ‘‘news ” printing paper, and who is prepared to
carry papers free per post, will have the enthu-
siastic support of at least the Sydney Daily Teli:-
oraph and Evening News— we believe that the
S.M. Herald, which practically enjoys an adver
tising monopoly, capable of bearing any st-ain-
ever likely to be put upon it, would find it pay
to rise superior to all venal consideration?.
Postage won’t hurt the Herald much ; but it
will hurt the other dailies a great deal, and any-
thing which hurts the penny papers more
than it hurts the Herald will, of course,
turn to the latter’s advantage By the way,
here is an instance of the working of the
present New South Wales free-postage-of-
newspapers system. A few years ago a certain
politician interested in mercantile affairs
wished to send 100,000 circulars throughout the
colonies. Had he posted these in Victoria for
Victorian distribution, or in Queensland for
Queensland distribution, he would, of course,
have had to put on each at least a half-penny
stamp —involving a total expenditure on his part
of £2OO cash. What did he do ? He simply re-
gistered and printed in Sydney a temporary trade
newspaper, inserting his advertisements and
accompanying them with iust enough reading
matter to satisfy the requirements of the N. S. W.
postal regulations, and then he proceeded to mail
his oircular free to all parts of the different colo
nies as a newspaper. That politician now sits be-
hind Parkes.


Peper
and
Salt
The Rev. Duncan Fraser, of Northcote
(Melb.), is a “meeDister” with a fine head for
business. The Victorian Presbytery was thinking
o a running another Eb?rezer, at cheaper rates, in
the immediate vicinity of that presided ov«.rby
the Rev. Duccan, but that gentleman looked in
and told the conclave how it was. He explained
that trade out his w r ay was not nearly good enough
to support two establishments. He was sound in
limb and wind, and capable of keeping up with
the demand for Presbyterian saving grace in and
about Northcote. When he found the births,
christenings, marriages, and deaths getting too
many for him he would drop a word and let them
know ; meanwhile it was incompatible with the
level-headed policy of the Presbytery to break up
a thriving monopoly. Saying which Duncan took
his tile and backed out,
Ashburton (N.Z.) is a little town where
holy-Joeism is rampant and snuffle flourishes like
a green bay tree, and furthermore it is blessed
with the presence of John Gilchrist, an individual
whom no one has so far had energy enough to
bang. John’s moral character seems to be a mix-
ture of “ Rough on Rats ” and the blaze of the
seventh Sheol, and until lately he owned a horse
and a dog. A month or two ago. however, he
kicked the to death, and on February 18 he
found bimself in trouble for cruelly torturing the
horse. He de f ended himself by pleading “an
error of judgment,” and said be wished to call
evidence to prove “ the love he had for the horse.
He couldn’t be fonder of his best friend.” The
evidence was called accordingly, and one after
another his pals testified to his affection for the
poor old animal —some even w r ent further and
swore to the animal's affection for him, which
seemed to throw doubts either on their veracity
or on the level-headed sanity of the horse But
just as tliirgs were going smoothly a strange sus-
picion began to dawn on the mind of the J. P. He
prospected among his notes, and presently he
ascertained that the se.f-same gang had rolled up
a month or two before to testify to ths love Gil-
christ had for the dog when he sent that unhappy
animal to heaven with his boots, and then he
heaped language on the prisoner and planted the
iron ho-'f of tyranny on him to the tune of £5 and
costs. Let us have one little verse in honour of
the occasion :
The love he felt for the horse, tra la,
Had nothing to do with the case,
For he'd loved the dog (now a corse, tra la)
With quite as much fervour and force, tra la,
As it died from a kick in the face ;
And that's what the beak meant when he sa d
with a curse:
“Oh! bother the love which you feel for the
horse! ”
Yes, that’s what he meant when he started to
curse
At the solid affection he felt for that horse.
Melbourne enjoys the privilege (and it is
a big one) of having the boss idiot of Australasia
among her pcpulation. The 8.1. wrote to the
local Herald to call attention to the fact that the
tram-cars in Collins-street did not stop and let
Lord Carington pass by, and that a policeman
stared at Lord C. as he drove on— after the tram-
car had passed. All this Crash appears over the
nom-de plume— what a long-suffering one it is !
of “ PiO Bono Publico.” Tram cars have pre-
cedence over everything in the street by Act of
Parliament, and, of course, LordCarington’s name
does not appear as the exception to the general
rule. But “Publico” got it next day. A “Dis-
gusted Australian Native” called his letter “ un-
mitigated hog-wash.” Bravo! “D. A. N.”—
We couldn’t have done that bit of baptism bettor
ourselves:
Bourke (N.S.W.) languishes not for want
of Government inspectors. In addition to minor
blessings it boasts of a local inspector of wharve ,
a local inspector of post-offices, a lccal inspector
of residence for pumper, and the pumper himself
is also inspected at certain seasons by higher
officials, who supplement tteir fat salaries by a
string of travelling ex.’s as long as the tail of a
boy’s kite. In addition to these, Bourke proudly
boasts of a noble army of rabbit inspectors, with
inspectors of rabbit inspectors to keep watch and
guard on the inspectors, and a chief inspector to
boss the lot. Then there is a goodly array of
rabbit-fence inspectors, and inspectors of rabbit-
fence inspectors, and a “big fellah” inspector,
whose eagle eye strikes terror into all connected
with this department, except the rabbits them-
selves, who seem to look upon the whole staff as
so many friendly reformers engaged in doing their
level best to prevent the rabbit race from suffering
from any of the evils consequent on the over-pro-
duction of the species. Applications are being
made for the appointment of an inspector, sub-
inspector, and principal inspector of pademelons
at d ‘ gchannes,” and when these parties are fixed
in their billets it is intended to agitate for a
similar staff of inspectors of cockatoos and crows.
It is confidently expected that in the fullness of
time every man in Bourke will he a Government
inspector, or something or another, and by this
judicious scheme of retrenchment an immense
saviDg to the colony will be ensured.
* * *
The Melbourne D.T. has begun to put in
employment advertisements for nothing. This
arrangement seems to us a gross and unjustifiable
overcharge, but then the D.T. always has been a 1
queer paper, and nobody ever knows What it will
do next. It is run by professional expounders of
Glad Tidings, and the Blessed Sawbath is strictly
respected. That is to say, on ?unday nights, when ,
the offices of the other Collins-street dailies are
ablaze with light, the D.T. premises are over- j
spread with the same Egyptian gloom that ear !
marks the paper every time it comes out. “Copy ’
mnst be ready as usual, however, and, as this I
sanctified system gives the scribes no place !o
write in, the result is that the DT. men are
scribbling all over the city—in hotels and sly grog
shops, in barbers’ premises and elsewhere—very
much elsewhere the di ectora would think, if they !
THE TERRORS OF DRINK.
ELDER (loq): “DON'T YOU EVER TOUCH IT, DON'T GO NEAR IT. I NEVER
TOUCH IT, AND I DON'T FEEL THE WANT OF IT WHY DON’T YOU JOIN
OUR BAND OF 'OPE, THEN YOU’LL BE ABLE TO KEEP OFF IT ALTOGETHER.”
only knew the places where seme of the MS. is
produced. This being a holy subject we would
like to conclude with a text, but after figuring
round in the hinder pert of the Scriptures, we
gave it up. The text that suits the occasion is
not yet built,
“ The British Government has agreed to
pay Mr. Louis Brenran (la‘e of the Victorian
Railway Department) £llO.OOO in consideration of
acquiring his torpedo invention.”
That bright, fresh, beaming creature, the
Australian girl, turns up every time when she is
warned. She has now come to the frontat Croydon
(N.Q.), a new goldfield which i 8 covered with
raging blasphemy, and where the softening and
refining Influence of lovely woman is badly wanted
A towering rough of six feet two, and coarse in
proportion, made use of some obscene and brutal
language in the bar of a hotel, and the little
golden haired angel in attendance, without mov-
ing a muscle of her face, took a shot at his right
ear with a tumbler. There was a shiver of glass
and a roar, and then it was found that the houri
had come within an acs of doing calmly what the
Apostle Peter only managed in a moment of great
excitement, for the ear was hanging by a shred
Our respect for the young lady rise< still higher
when we learn that it was only the third time sh'e
had performed this feat ; none but an Australian
girl could do amputations at two yards' range with
a beer glass after such slight training. In another
year at the latest we expect to find her far enough
advanced to take off legs with a bottle at 20 paces,
and then a bleeding country will have good reason
to be proud of her when the Russians arrive.
The following airy trifle is from the foreign
telegrams in the Rockhampton (Q.) Argus:
“ England and Egypt are assisting Pays Fallaheen
in his efforts towards abolishing a resort to the
Corveen.” This is what ought to be termed a
sub(horse) marine garbled cram. “ Cablegram
isn’t expressive enough to describe such an item
unlets the cable is drunk.
Bare aid ine (Q.) was pretty lively on the
28th of February. It seems that three, what the
Southern World (Q ) terms “ sportive bush
men,” completely wrecked a pub. known as the
“ All Nations” Hotel They smashed all the
windows, frames, the lamps, signboard, furniture
and crockery with their stirrup-irons. One man
was arrested and another struck a mimber av th
foorce with his stirrup-iron and rode off. The
peelers then procured horses, and, strange to re
late, captured all three! The “sportive” ones
were then brought in to the township andseciwe7j
chained to trees. We presume Barcaldine has no
lockup, or at least none that these “sportive ”
souls couldn’t smash up for kindlings inside five
minutes.
Some people were going to start a new
paper down South last moDth. It was to be
called, if you please, the Tocsin, and was to
make things howl in true liberal fashion. There
were three Anarchists on the staff, and the manag-
ing editor was to be a newly imported Nihilist
from the place where they provide golden harps
for Czars at a moment's notice. Two of the articles
were already written, and a legal mind was re-
sorted to as to their freedom from libel. “ Yes ”
said the legal mind, “ they’re libellous, seditious
and blasphemous.” “ Right,” said the proprietor]
“ that's just what we want. How does this read ’
‘ Queen Victoria’s reign is chiefly remarkable for
the prosperity of the colonies where she has never
been, and the poverty of the people where she is.’ ”
“ Horrible!” shrieked the legal mind “Well
read on,” said the Anarchist. “There is a con-
spiracy of silence as to the misdeeds of the Gillies'
Government on the part of the Melbourne Press.”
“Blasphemy!” gasped the lawyer as he sank
upon the floor, a victim to his feelings. ‘ • But,”
went on the enthusiastic seditionist, “ listen to our
views on the aide de camp to Sir Henry Loch,
the Strong case, and, more than all, on the Ea’ ly
Closing Tyranny Act.” But it was no use, the
legal conservative was no more, and on account
of the present condition of liberty in Victoria it
has been thought hardly desirable to publish the
paper.
PRO BUND EXCELLENCE
We sing of a constable coarse and depraved,
And of governors sweet and seraphic—
Wc siDg of the way that the “ bobby ” behaved
When he was controlling the traffic ;
This radical, wretched disgrace to the force
Deserves a roost horrible slating—
He permitted a car to continue its course,
And kept the dear governors waiting.
May fire rain down on that constable’s head,
May demons play up in his vitals.
May “skeeters” prevent him from sleeping in
bed
For slighting those bearers of titles ;
Lord Bob and Sir Henry, those mighty “ I ams,”
Whose glory there’s no overrating—
Is it decent that such institutions as trams
Should keep the dear governors waiting ?
Ye gods ! Do we dream, are we waking, or how ?
Is the world, then, becoming less snobby,
That the onlooking citizens thus could allow
This dastardly deed by a ‘-‘bobby ?”
“ Pro Bono,” we need some more toadies like
thee,
Whom Nature destines, when creating.
To make it their sycophant business to see
That a governor’s never kept waiting.
A ROYAL ROAD TO FORTUNE.
The clerk who labours long and hard
Can earn a scanty crust:
The painter, journalist or bard
Too frequently goes “ bust
Smart artisans can money make
With busy hands and mind
But, if you'd take what’s called the “ cake,”
Be wide awake, and learn to “ fake ”
A thirg to kill mankind.
’Tis well to have relations rich
Who name us in their wills—
To bring out patent physics which
Can cure all human il's ;
The Jew who lends at shent. per shent.
May worldly wealth eDjoy—
But any gent on business bent
Had best invent some weapon meant
To slaughter and destroy.
Go to, philanthropists ! who strive
Poor human life to save—
The hero don't keep men alive,
But sends ’em to the grave ;
He who designs a deadly gun
That shoots in novel ways,
Has glory won, and ne’er a one
Can doubt the good that Brennan’s done,
Nor grudge him wealth and praise.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The N.S.W. Freetrade members modestly
called themselves “ cocks.” Turncocks, more
likely.
Victoria imports £750,000 worth of fruit
per annum. Chaffty Brothers say they will
change all this by irrigation.
“Mr. M’Elhone, M.P. : “I would wear
colonial-made clothes it they would make me
look respectable.” Mr. EwiDg, MP. : “ That is
really too much to expect of aDy suit of clothes."
Ministei Bray, of South Australia, was
jmt winding up an hour’s speech on his policy at
Adelaide when a citizen unkindly yelled at him,
“ Yes, and now give us your policy." Is Bray
like Parkes ?
The O’Sullivan is on the war-path. He
says that by evidence to bs taken on oath he is
going to convict Parkes of using the powers of
office to influence the election for Queanbeyan in
the interests of the freetrade candidate.
From Melbourne we hoar a startling
rumour to the effect that during Parkes’ recent
visit to Victoria, Premier Gillies opened up nego-
tiations with him for the sale of Riverina to the
Southern colony. It is further stated that Parkes
seemed not unwilling.
Walker says that when Parkes visits
Wallsend within a month, as he promised to do,
he will be accorded a “ fitting ” reception. Has
any Wallsendite measured Parkes' mouth and are
the hens to be di-ected to mould the eggs to the
proper size and shape ?
Sir John Robertson evidently doesn’t care
for those who come after him. At the Mayor's
luncheon la it week he told the German officers
that, he would like to see hundreds of thousands
of Germans come here Poor Sir John, he knows
their arrival won't trouble him.
Mr. Water-Jug Foster refused to allow
himself to be nominated for the Speakership in
the N.S.W. Assembly for “ personal and political
reasons. Just so ! The Attorney-Generalship is
worth more lhan the Speakership, and a judgeship
is worth more than the two combined
Mr. Salomons, Q.C., says that the only
way he can explain the muddleheadedness of
the present New South Wales Land Act is
that the framer of the Act was bringing up his
children to both branches of the legal profession
and was determined that they should not eat the
bread of idleness.
M‘Elhono intends to propose in the
N.S.W. Assembly that a postage of Id. shall be
charged on newspapers which now are, and
long have been, sent free. Powerfully ■ written
articles demonstrating what a public calamity the
adoption of such a proposal will result in may bs
expected in the Sydney dailies forthwith.
After all, the present N.S.W. Parliament
is, in one respect, a shade or tv o better than its pre-
decessor. In the last Assembly there were five
financial Freetraders whose bankruptcy cert id-
ea tee were (and are still) among the unwritten re-
cords of the Insolvency Court. In the present
House there are only two of this noble band.
It is not generally known, perhaps, that
one member of the present N.S.W. Ministry made
his living in earlier days as a not very successful
actor. There are better times in store for him
however, now that he has joined the famous
Parkes Variety Company. The ghost mayn’t
walk for the country, but it will walk for him.
Sir Henry Parkes accused Mr. O’Mara of
cowardice because he did not found his attack on
the l’arkes-Garrett combination upon a specific
motion. If a motion were proposed at this stage
with a majority of members under the influence
of the craze of M’Millionism the result would be
that Parkes and Garrett would be whitewashed
beyond recognition.
The Lands Commission, Evening News
reports to the contrary notwithstanding, has not
recommended the abolition of the N.S.W Survey
Department. That it would pay the country to
have almost all the staffsurveyors put on contract
work, instead of, as at present, on time, loafing
was certain years rgo, but such a reform d d not
come within the ecope of the Lands Commission
Northumberland (N.S.W.) electors have
for all time by electing to Parliament
a Methodist preacher and a Fret thought lcc-
wT lf „ thC ? is a next world , Tom
Walker will make it all right with the powers
beneath while Ninian puts in a soft word among
the circles of light. If there’s no hereafter, why
Fnry eyU “ eVeC be P uni3hed for hinsulting Sir
The Port Macquarie News suggests that
Australia should celebrate the Centenary by start-
a Vf, public ' But ifc foresees objections thus
Doubtless these views will horrify C M G's
Vy , C i° UnCi ! lors ’ and other toadies expecting
their dubious honours. Which proves that up at
Port Macquarie they can land wi'h both feet on
the eternal snows of truth at least once in everv
two tries. J
The N.S.W. Opposition came to a wise
decision in agreeing to abstain from aggressive
attacks on Parkes and Co. for the present: the
only Pity is that they were so soon persuaded to
abandon the policy. The proverb about affording
the canine enough rope to enable him to be his
own executioner had a direct application in this
case. The majority of Parkes will slip away
fast enough if he is but left to his own devices.
Mr. J. Pain, the firework factor, has e’on-
tracted to supply the Victorian Government with
10 000 sound signal-rockets. It is rumoured that
Gillies and Co. intend placing a further order with
Mr. Pam for a grand ’ set piece ” to be erected
in a commanding position at Queenscliff The
design will be John Bull destroying the Bear ”
over the inscription “We don’t want to fight’”
&c. The set piece will not be lighted until the
Russian fleet is about to enter the Heads.
The promotion of social morality being as
much a public concern as the maintenance of
public morality, some members of t fie NSW
Assembly intend-in view of the alleged increa- e
of the particular crime, aid the many uglv
rumours which are afloat as to certain doings of
individuals who move in upper circles—to ask the


Minister of Justice whether it i 3 the intention of
the Government to introduce a Bill to amend the
present ineffective liw relating to the seduction of
young girls
Look at this picture. “ A woman named
Eliza Fulmer was found dead, and with a dead
infant at her breast, in an East end (London)
hovel. The child was partly eaten by rats, aud
mother and child had evidently died from starva-
tion.” And now look on thi3 : —“ The Q.aeen in-
tends to purchase certain of the French Crown
jewels, which are to be sold shortly.” Who
wouldn’t plank down a pound to ce’ebrate the
jubilee of our gracious Queen - the mother of her
people—after reading all this ?
A vague ugly rumour is on the move in
Queensland. '1 he last (Jueensland loan floated in
London is now asserted to te a giganlicfrost. it
went off slowly and painfully like a dog without
legs, and it was mostly taken up at low' figures by
the banks. But the latter are declared to have
been acting on behalf of the Queen land Govern-
ment. or, in other words, it i-s said that the public
would have nothing to do with the Bananalandprs’
1.0. U . and they were forced to take up the loan
themselves and lose the commission. A nice sort
of thing to happen in a free country.
Andrew Carnegie, in “ Triumphant De-
mocracy,” thus sits heavily upon the Imperial
Federation jrejectors “ If Lord Rosebery were
to succeed in his amusing Imperial Federation fad
(which, happily, is impossible), these nations in
embryo would be s' ifled in their cradles. Imagine
the great democratic Continent of Australia really
subject to lhe little island, and to the funny mon-
archy and its antiquated forms. I have heard
before of the tail wagging the dog, but it must
have been a very big tail and a very small dog.
Britain will form a very diminutive tail to the
Australia of the next generation.”
It is known in Melbourne, though it has
not yet been announced in the papers, that the
Victorian Government have lately paid £2OO
or so for further information regarding “ Russmn
designs” in Australian waters. The intention of
the ltusfians is beyond all earthly doubt to let
Australia strictly alone ; yet it suits Premier
Gillies to believe, or to pretend to believe, that
there is danger of a Muscovite invasion. As the
last man who was paid money for “ information
about the Russians ” turned out to be an unmiti-
gated humbug, there will now be much curiot-Py
as t o the identity of t he pres. nt stipendiary expose r
of the Czar’s deep plots.
Mr. J. P. Abbott, tho leader of the
Opposition in the N.S.W. Aesemb’y, began his
new career by a lamentable display of weakness
and indecision. He claimed a right to sit in the
House and vote, notwithstanding that the writ of
election Jtad not been returned, and announced
his determination to defy the House to remove
him—he would allow the Sergeant to assault him
so that he might bring an action in a court of law.
This was the political thunder of Tuesday. On
Thurtday Mr. Abbott quietly walked out, when
the Speaker merely suggested that he should do
so. And on Friday, after the writ was returned,
he took the oath in the usual way.
One little reform that the Parkes Ministry
might try to work is the punctual payment of
workmen’s wages The wail of the men employed
on the relief works, whose wages are generally
about three weeks in arrear, is melancholy enough,
but the water-borers in the Western districts have
a still more bitter lamentation. At more than one
of the camps the men are claimants for more than
four months’ pay, and the loss and inconvenience
they are under by departmental delay is a big dis-
count on the value of the wages when received
Storekeepers, publicans, and usurers alike bleed
the man who has to get tick, and they are the only
admirers of this “ four-months-after-date” system.
The Sydney Freetrade dailies denounced
Mr. O’Mara’s brilliant speech respecting Mr.
Garrett’s position in the N.S W. Government; they
declared that it was unnecessary and uncalled-for,
and showed their sense of fair-play by suppressing
three parts of it, whilst Sir Henry Parkes’ inconse-
quential Billingsgatereply was reported in extenso
A daily Hansard would be a very expensive pub-
lication, and would be quite unnecessary if the
newspapers which prttencl to give fair reports of
debates in Parliament were not to value members’
speeches according to their political bias. That
Beems to be the ru’e now, aDd it acts to tho disad-
vantage of the public Every elector in N S W.
ought to have an opportunity of reading Mr.
O'Mara’s speech and contrast its manly outspoken-
ness and vigour with Parkes’ abusive and irrele-
vant answer.
The new political god of the Sydney D.T.
is Mr. M’Millan. He is about the twentieth mem-
ber upon whom that excitable journal has become
badly mashed. Mr. Garvan was in great vogue
with the D.T at one time ; nothing was too sti-ODg
to be written in his favour ; since he appeared on
the other side, however, the D.T. vocabulary is
exhausted in an effort to overthrow him. “ Toby”
Barton was another flame, but the love for him
seems to have died out, and Dibb3, also once an idol,
has likewise fallen into D.T. disrepute. Abbott
was once a certain Premier in the prophetic eye of
the King-street hysteric—once he was puffed
higher than a kite : now he has fallen in D.T.
estimation down lower than the sunken Keila-
warra. M’Millan is the idol of the hour, and he will
probably continue in favour for fully three weeks,
or perhaps a month even
The other day, Mr. J. H. Young, M.L.A.,
a legislatively-undistinguished produce dealer,
who may be an excellent judge of the “good
taste ” of potatoes, was for some unfathomable
reason elevated to the Speakership of the N.S.W.
Legislative Assembly by the solid vote of the
Parkes party. A night or two afterwards, during
Mr. T. C. O'Mara’s biting impeachment of the
unholy Parkes-Garrett combination, Parkes and
Garrett, unable to take their gruel, interrupted
the man who was flogging them, with wriggles
and yowls of pain. Whereupon the newly-fledged
Speaker, to whom the exhibition must have been
extremely painful, considered it his duty to inter-
fere thus (see S.M. Hkrald report)
i‘ q r Speaker called upon hon. numbers to abstain from
interruption- The hon member for Moniro was perfe tly
in order in saying what he was saying whether 1 1 was lit good
taste or not."
Judging from this little episode, Mr. J. H. Young,
M.L.A-, is evidently just the kind of Speaker who
will suit his friend, Parkes.
It is stated that tho Bathurst (N.S.W.)
High School, an institution supported by Govern-
ment funds, has been so successfully managed
that it now hoasts of a total attendance of no less
than four pupils. To instruct these fortunate
scholars two first-class masters are employed, and
we ban well believe they do not wear out a ruin-
ous amount of shoe-leather tramping from class
to class. The cost to the colony for the mainten-
ance of the school is about £l5OO a year, or £375
for each boy, and the returns are about on a level
with those of a second-rate shooting gallery, or a
hot-potato stall at Paddy’s Market. Four
Bathurst fathers are thus enabled to educate their
four sons at about one-tenth of the cost tbat other
fa hers have to pay who are desirous of giving
their heirs a similar education elsewhere. Con-
sidering thatN.S.W. is the boasted home of Free-
trade this sneakiog-in of Protection to certain schoo’B
seems more than passing strange, but as a matter
of fact the colony is, as ore of the la l e candidates
candidly admitted, Free l rade when it suits her,
but Protectionist whenever she thinks it pays her
better to change sides.
Profess3r Leone Levi— may bis shadow
never be defiled —is writing on “Fifty jears of
economic progress.” We are unable to say posi-
tively whether the Professor was born a fathom-
less ass or whether he achieved distinction
by long and careful study, but from the fol-
lowing we are inclined to think it is hereditary
and incurable:
“ If, therefore, we find that England has immensely pros-
pered during the last fifty years, it is not too much to assume
that a Urge share of that prosi erity i-i due to the presence of
a Sovereign intensely beloved by her people, to her sagacity
ia the choice of ruli rs of conspicuous ability, and to the part
she ha - taken—aloe, or with the aid of her illustrious con-
sort, eo long as he was spared 10 her anu to the nition—in
the framing of institutions calculated to foster and devtlope
the resources of the country.”
Let us pau?e in life’s pleasures and count its many
beers. Professor Leone Levi may be a great man
and stuffed with erudition and thistles for all we
know to the contrary—he may be able to tell
straight off how many inches the oldest inhabi-
tant of Pekin measures round the base of his
brain —he may know the habits of the shell-fish in
the Congo, and he is qualified, as likely as not, to
tell the age of a corpse by rubbing his head in the
grass above its grave, but of constitutional law he
knows about as much as a dogjs infant does 0 f
Tubal Cain. The Queen, as| everybody
except Levi is aware, has nothing to do
with the choice of rulers except in name,
and when the people put a Gladstone or a
Disraeli into power her job simply consists
in harrying the victim for coin. Also
she does not, 4 frame institutions ” of any
kind. She only frames dreary “ Journals
in the Highland,” and speeds the rest of
her time in flopping on the tomb of
Brown, and dry-nursing babies. She is a
queen with a green cotton umbrella in-
stead of with a sceptre, and she holds
even the o’d gingham of state with a
nerveless hand. Professor Levi is oneof her
few remaining admirers, and his worship
strikingly resembles the grovel cf the
Chinaman who calls on his Joss for rain.
There is a rain of K C. M. G -ships and other
hono s looming, if Levi go< s on as 1 e
has begun we r. ckon a few oppiDgs are
likely to fall on him
Dear Bulletin, —Both Mr. Gar-
land and Mr. JeaLneret Ms P., when on
the hustings, decl-red themselves n favour
of the odious flogging c ause of the N.S.W.
Criminal Law Consolidation Act, and
stated they would oppose its repeal
Both of those gentlemen also informed the e’ec-
tors of I'arcoar that they were natives of the
colony, and had its honour, its welfare, and i r s
interests at heart ! Can it be possible that any
native-born Australian can contemplate the hor-
rors of the lash—that ’legalisedsystem of savagery
and brutism—its sickening concomitants, its
loa’hsome surroundings and it - fiendish and de-
grading tortures, with any other feelings than that
of shame, disgust, and indignation ? Or can it be
that these Fleet rade heroes think it would be a
departure from their principles to extend “ Pro-
tection ” even to wretched imbeciles who are
irresponsible for their indecency and their actions?
I submit, and I am sure The Bulletin will agree
with me, that no pane man in the colony has, up
to date, been flogged for indecency ; and is it
legal, is it politic, is it necessary, is it Christian-
like, or is it justifiable in the eyes of God or man
to torture imbeciles for actions for which they are
absolutely irresponsible ? If it be, what is the
world coming to? ’l he Bulletin has stated
over and over again that no man with a good coat
on his back—no •'gentleman"—however much
he may have deserved it, has ever yet been pun-
ished under this clause, and the bloody records of
the lash confirm its statement. The lash, as we
know it, is an odious institution for the express
torture of wretched imbeciles who ought to be
under control in Asylums. —Yours faithfully, 11.
J. M'Cooey.
When Judge Windt-yer gets home to
England with his mild aspect enhanced by the
ocean breeze and his powerful brain strengthened
by occasional fish, he will probably want to chum
in with the occupants of the English bench, and
in that ease we would draw attention to Judge
Kdlin as a man whom he ought to study. A few
weeks ago this exponent of the law had to deal
with a burly ruffian who tried to force his way
into a married woman’s bedroom with a view to
plunder. Outside the door, however, a brawny
dog argued the point gallantly until its throat was
cut with a carving-knife, and then the burglar
ransacked the room, and finding nothing to decla’e
a dividend upon, he cut the woman’s throat, too,
though not fatally. Judge Peter Henry Edlin
gave him six months. Windeyer, on the other
hand, would have risen in his might and hurled at
him a sentence of 750 years and 98 fioggiogs. It
is a pity that these two Solomons can’t be hashed
up and mixed —and then divided.
Mr. Theodore Bevan has written a pam-
phlet on British New .Guinea which avers, inter
alia , that mail steamers will in future be des-
patched regularly to that tropical region. The
brochure is evidently written for the purpose of
attracting people to the cocoa-nut-wooded shores,
but when it describes how the Papuans at Port
Moresby (which some awful snob has re-
christened Granville) go about singing “Wait
till the clouds roll bye” and “God Save the
Queen,” we don’t feel attracted, somehow. The
pamphleteer, to colour hi 3 narrative, gives a
“ word-picture ” of two lovers, and after describing
the man, goes on to tell that “ close to him reclines
the clinging retiring figure of the girl, untram-
melled by the many forms of dress which art
seems to have invented in order as far as possible
to spoil the human form.” Which is a very cir-
cumlocutory way of saying she had no clothes on.
All through, the scribe makes out that British
New Guinea is Eden's other address. We hope
this is so, but our doubts on the subjeot would fill
a tram-car.
Editor Bulletin. Sir, —Among the tur-
moil of elections, the rumours of wars, the clang
of the Freetraders, and the yelp of the Protec-
tionists, it may seem a small matter, but it is one
of great importance—namely, Why is it that all
through N S.W., as settlement gets a hold, the
creeks and rivers begin to fill up ? No bushman
will hesitate to endorse this statement. Go where
you will you will find that the running waters are
disappearing, as the river-beds get all filled up
with sand. I know one instance where a creek
that used to have waterholes in it ten feet deep,
and plenty of them, too, is now a desolate chain of
ponds choked with sand, and goes dry on the
slightest provocation. I have seen it in New
England, I have seen it out West, I have seen it
down South. Squatters often say, “If it hadn’t
been for the tanks and dani3 we couldn’t have
carried the sheep this year—the creeks are all
dry.” My own explan ition of the phenomenon is
that owing to over-stocking the land is left bare
and gets more «asily washed into the creeks ; but
I should like the opinion of some practical bush-
man on the subject.—Yours truly, Grazier.
.T. Crump, of Townsville (Q ), has got a
mouth on him at present that looks like the front
d or of a giraffe—in fact it is swelled out to
such a degree that it a 1 most requires to be carried
about as a separate institution. The reason of
this was explained when he sued his late boss for
wages due. “ I asked him for the money, your
wuship.” he said plaintively, “ and he answered
by upping with his foot and dabbiDg me in the
mouth with it ”
Bungville, N'.S.W., 26th February, 1887.
Dear Bulletin, —I am not very sure that you
will remember me, and my only excuse for writing
is that I think you are always interested in
knowing “ what can happen to a man in the
colonies.” When I last called at jour office I was
trying to solve the problem of “ how to dress
decently and pay your landlady on 255. a week ”
I need hardly tell you that the experiment failed,
and once more I rolled up my blankets, took down
my old stockwhip from the wall, and struck out
for the back-block*. That was close upon six
months ago, and you will scarcely credit that
during that time I have ridden over 1000 miles
both in N.S W. and Queensland without getting
the chance of a single day’s work. I am not by
any means a “ new chum,” having spent the
Mr. J. P. Abbott, M.L.A., administers
the oath to himself.
greater part of my seven years in Australia among
stuep, cattle, and horses, so that it was not want
of experience that caused me to fail in my search
for a hare existence. I have met dozens of men
“on the wallaby” who have told me they had
been even longer on the roads without work men
who have been out here years and could turn their
hands to almost anything. I don't include the
professional ‘'sundowner.” I know him when
I see him, and he is pretty scarce just
now, having migrated to Sydney where he
can get his three square meals per diem from the
Government without even troubling lo boil a
“ billy.” Yet NSW.is “ a splendid field for im-
migration ! ” I would like to compel those che“r-
ful idiots, who lecture “ at home” about the ad-
vantages of Sunny N. S. W. as a field for labour
to shoulder old “ blu- y,” and with “ billy ” and
tucker bag set forth to find it. I will wager that
if they get flooded out as often as I was when the
M'lntyre overflowed they would change their
tune, for wet blankets and an empty stomach are
not cheerful things to lecture upon. The only
pie< e of luck I struck wa3 when, having nothing
left but my “ swag,” I was meditating making
down to Sydney for the purpose of shipping home
to London, and arrived at the place from which I
date. Some of “ the boys” on a neighbouring
station where I was once employed, recognised
me, and I got introduced to the local newspaper
proprietor as the author of a certain set of bush
verses which years ago appeared in The Bul-
letin. They seem to have caused some interest
about here and to have been recited publicly. As
a result of this timely introduction, I am engaged
as—ahem '—editor and general reporter. By the
bye, what do you think of a certain Sydney weekly
contemporary of yours offering a guinea fora story
of four columns ? Is that encouraging “ the native
talent in our midst?’’—Yours, very sincerely,
A.W.J.
THE BULLETIN (Published at Sydney, N.S.W,
The Unique Weekly, Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
The Bulletin, the Premier Australian Literary
Journal, is the only paper which has a con-
sistent and distinctive Australian National
Policy.
The Bulletin favours—
Democracy as the Australian National Creed.
Payment of Members.
State Revenue derived diiectly from the Land.
Complete Secularisation of State Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
Protection to Native Industries.
The Election by the Australian peoples of the
Governors of the Australian colonies.
The Bulletin denounces —
Religious Interference in Politics.
Foreign Titles.
The Chinese.
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the other half that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter which is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started six years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become a vast property, because it pos-
sessed a vitality lacked by the countless news-
paper-ventures in which Australian capitalists
have unavailingly spent large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have, during the
last year, spent some thousands of pounds in
fitting their buildings with the latest appliances
for high-class printing and the production of illus-
trations, and they have now issued The Bulletin
in an entirely new form -printed with new type
of improved legibility on the finest paper, and
adorned with sketches from the hands of the
ablest and best-paid newspaper artists Australia
has yet seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal wh .eh denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The voice of The Bulletin is the beacon-fire
of national progress : it is the forceful summons to
the crusade against the monopolies in land,
wealth, power, and privilege—the direct cause of
half the misery which now devastates British
humanity. Against the claims of avaricious
clergy who claim to monopolise salvation, against
the dark despotism of grasping plutocrats, and
against the exercise of any human authority
which has not been granted by the people over
whom it is exercised, The Bulletin will fearlessly
and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary w r eekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.-
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in w'hich they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the New Zealand
Ranges. A paper w'hich is at once the
most popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
At least ten copies of The Bulletin are sold in
Sydney to every one of any other w eekly journal,
and more than a hundred copies of it are sold in
Melbourne to one of any other paper printed out-
side that city. Perhaps the strongest proof of The
Bulletin’s popularity is found in the unchallenge
able fact—easily ascertainable from any postal
official—that, of all journals issued in Australasia,
The Bulletin is the one most frequently re-
mailed from one man to another.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office
twenty shillings sterling in advance— which you
may pay by Post-office order, one-pound note, or
stamps of any Australian colony—you can have
The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year. Cheques and Orders payable to
J. M. HARDING.


THE OPENING OF THE N.S.W. PARLIAMENT.
df
4^ r \
PR°c&> 0 /^
Ks C"«W" SE A®,
ykos
3
* you »* cjO* fc of ,
r«« lm 61 /*; vVi rtfOuT y(K> ft <jVtJ
A riAf<
0F w£i<jHf
v
L Of-IQ r 1
/J/ty '
ftfAUfy and i>j£ PAri<eS
Our Artist at the Opening of N.S.W. Parliament.


(By Cable.)
Auckland, Saturday.—The Court oi Appeal
•as quashed the conviction against Thomas
Hall,* who was lately sentenced to death for
toe mordar of bis 'father-in-law, Captain Cain.
This decision places the prisoner in the same
position as if a verdict of not guilty had been
returned on the capital charge, but he still re-
mains under a sentence of imprisonment for
life tea the attempted poisoning of his wife
1 r V '„z r #eurieS«A
(?e/e J>ra/cc/ ■ /
/4<zcf e/zouo;/? <vf / •
*** A /&? 0/fra/rs Jee I
any xear/ccce, <*„y 4K>****
X /s trM/'axjh* l '?''*?*?*,
' /)re/fy - rtrt-cl— czn,a-y
7Zu/z/cS, Z CUft
Arca/Ac freer Hour. Zy you coujct
*an* 9 e Ay »>ecc»S Zo
Sotf zAacZZes Zo MuZ Z
/ruoAZ Acre c* A/T/e
O/STzor'emnr r/A/»A V zr^ZAe
ra7e /&- fo Secure a*o%er Zafter—
ZctccK ' _ -\ / —\ >
7a a f S/&S
**?**%& fZ%r£7Z»- 1
S/afite, A e fax W*
da.se/,
jfc , //ere'S «r> 'c7e* 7
/frree-7f*z<z/e
* "/<ysryi/e/ ' ofo/nete/ere /#%&/?
/cfr/- S%£/s % zc/ay. /ssz/fros/ec/ //x/secl ML
fooc/s aszc/ y/zsc/cf/e / . XI
\Mo/'/S7£c/ //e/frs'/ssC/o o: / r//f/,y^
OC., — ~'
/77 R Jkfrfiii- "7> early le-
% /ored 7//J?d 7/?a/ 7Can -
Vfif Wa/aje 76e Oder/on
> f6eo7re anc(76n C/h//?6
7oo ZeAi/s. tycn, far/i'
V 1 ~=l /roryd/5 an/t/fasa/t''
/c, <yc/rfyA "fy c
/ f x I | Mil 111 I —— . .
oky&r <2"J /7g (-J/r/tenryJ i] o \
Concerned, 7e coas Xr*
yu/Ae/zreybared/o face any -
ee/Cac/ eoA/cA any Car “/n far// a men A /rz/yyAA /zia/e aya//7s/~ '
7o n? //!/?/?£ tr. "fes andi w/A Afe Same eCea/on (///A z2rf/b£y&u/A?ced '/re tfo/Tp/iy ayo
/Ye sAtz// dee /fa/ Car '//z /Ac /ff/'/r/sAryye/'"
Topics of the Time.


Society
A N.S.W. clergyman tells this yarn, so it
must be true. There were on one occasion so
many deaths in his parish that the local sexton
had his spade too full to get them all dug to time.
Extra spades being required, the parscn got hold
of two men in ‘ seedy” clothes whom he saw
loafing about the street, and pressed them into the
grisly service. Noticing that they handled their
spades slowly, the sky pilot started to oversee
their work, when, on clostr inspection, they
turned out to be two old college chum 3 of his ! It
eemed they had come out to Australia, with a
good ou fit, to see a litt’e life. They put up at
the best hotel in Melbourne and spent their money
like school boys. They, unfortunately, forgot to
settle up wi.h the land ord, so one day when
they returned with soi’ed clothes and begrimed
linen from a raid in the country, Boniface refused
them admission, and sat on their luggage and
grinned and told them he wanted that little ac-
count. In vain they indignantly promised full
settlement when remittances should arrive. Boni-
face put his finger to his nose, and said he pre-
ferred to sit on their luggage un'il then. So they
had to wait —homeless, pennilesj and clean
clotheless pending ’remittances, and the worst of
it all was that their credentials and letters were
with their luggage. N.B. —ln the excitement of
the moment w e forgot to say that these two suf-
ferers were “ dooks.”
Up North, a lady recently married a black-
smith, a youthful spark just about half the age of
his trusty bride. Sines their wedding the lady
has discovered a long lost son of hers, and has
made him, by testament, the sole htir of her not
inconsiderable property, thus entirely cutting off
hubby trom participation in her estate. Further,
she desired toe son of Vulcan to convey to her by
will his pioperty, consisting chiefly, if not solely,
of an anvil and a small but ponderous selection of
blacksmith’s tools. The long suffering husband,
who had borne the advent of the son with ill-
disguised disgust, complied, and wrote the follow-
ing succinct statement of his wishes I hereby
give and bequeath all my blacksmith’s stock (in-
cluding the aforesaid anvil) to May Jane Blanque,
and 1 hope they will fall upon her the first day
she gets them and break her condemned neck.”
Dear Bulletin, —Twelve years (or more)
ago I was in a certain “ city ”of N.S.W. I stayed
in a very old and comfortable hotel and one night
saw what to me was very strange, for I was then a
new-chum. The landlady was thrashing a gentle-
man, first with a broom and then with her fists ,
he managed to escape after being well punished.
This was just at lock-up time. Before~l retired
the lady toid me that she had caught him kisßing
one of the servant maids. I was introduced to
the gentleman next day. He was (and is) member
for the city, and, recognising me. explained that
“ Mrs. was savage because I didn t kiss her."
N.B. —The M. P. was a married man with a family.
Now, I am writing a colonial Eacyclopiedia for
the Imperial Conference, so I beg that you will
inform me if such customs are still de rigueur in
the Sunny South. lam out of the way of M. P.’s
C.M.G.B, and P.I.G.s at present.—Yours as usual,
Hiram Abikf.
One of the most hideous of stories has,
so far, remained asbolutely untold. Ic has refer-
ence to the ghastly secrets of the great smallpox
scare at Sydney a few years ago—to that disgrace-
ful panic which impelled a former Farkes Ministry
to infringe liberty by forcing dying citizens to
leave their homes and be locked up under the
most awful of conditions at the Faraway quaran-
tine hulk in Sydney harbour. Certain allegations,
made shortly after Doctors Caffyn and Clune had
been justly awarded several thousands of pounds
as compensation for their enforced and unwar-
rantable detention at the hospital ship named
were investigated by a commission ; but that
commission utterly failed to elucidate the true
history of one of the most brutal acts ever com-
mitted in the name of the public sa ety. However,
the story will now shortly be given to the world
through the medium of a volume (to be published
in London) wheiein a surgeon narrates certain of
his Australian experiences A leading Melbourne
literary man who has had the privilege of perus-
ing the manuscript of the book dedai es it to be
one of the most realistic and awful stories ever
penned. That any writer should at this period of
Australian history be ia a position to impeach, as
the author has done, the authorities to whom the
guardianship of human life is confided is a blot
on civilisation. Although the “Story of the
Faraway ” appeara at a rather late date, it is none
the less calculated to make a sensation.
We think that a most popular young medico
m ditates offering himself up in a limp, love sick
way at the No. 1 feet of some bewitching Sydney
maiden, for the other afternoon we suddenly came
upon him pensively caressing his moustache and
gazing intensely at glittering engagement-rings
displayed in a Hunter street jeweller’s window.
He crimsoned b .neath our cynical glare and fled.
We thought of our 11 olive branches and the
price of boots, and grinned sardonically. P.S.—
This item, which is pure malice, was sent in to
Ihe Bulletin office, “ we” and all, by a girl.
* * *
A Tuncdm (N.Z.) evening rag boasts of a
London correspondent who seems to be a cute and
knowing man, and on terms with the aristocracy.
This individual has recently given cham to and
captured a bishop, and he is now engaged hustling
the golden saint around a little. ’J hus :
“ To show the sort of man General Butler is I may men-
tion that when h<-- proposed to Miss Thompson he suid, ‘I
think it right to tell you 1 have had one affair with a married
woiuar?.' Miss Thompson cried for two days, and wus about
to refuse him. Fortunate'y she consulted the (Roman
Catholic) Bishop of Nottingh *in ‘Pjuh !my dear,’ he siid,
‘ you ought to lc proud to marry such a good fellow. Most
men h-ive had half-a-dozen affairs before they marry, but
they take good care not to mention tnem. His te.ling you
is jour best guarautee of happiness ’ ”
It iB nice to be a bishop aud call another man’s
sweetheart “ my dear.”
* * *
A Thames (N.Z ) man overslept himself
on his wedding-morn, and when the bridal party
had been waiting for some time he was roused
up. That man was far-seeing. He knew he’d
have to get up early, light the fire, and take i
the milk when married, and he thought he’d enjo
his last morning of single ble3sedness.
Mr. P. T. Plaisted took a lady’s part in
Bwimining farce held recently at Hegarty’s Baths
Melbourne M". P. T. PJais ed, however, wi]
abstain from fuch fooliahness in future, and
will do his farces at the theatre. During the
performance his bustle got over his head, ant
when he was drawn out the choking contrivance
had nearly finished him. We presume, from the
fix he got into, that he had tied the bustle rourn
his neck in the first place instead of planting ii
where the ladies are in the habit of doing.
It is reported in London that all last
summer eight detectives were on the track of the
Duke of Marlborough. They were working in
the interests of eight infuriated husbands, and
when the bald-headed little duke went out in a
hansom at night they would follow in eight other
hansoms to see where he was going till His Grace
looked like a procession. Three of them dropped
off after the Colin Campbell case was settled, but
tfce other five are still on the tear. This tort of
thing is getting awkward for Marborough. If he
dines at a restaurant the detectives rush in as
soon as he comes out and count the bones,
and if there are bones enough for two they
conclude that a lady is in the question. They take
lightning sketches, too, of any female whom he
speaks to in the street, they tip his servants, make
lo e to the cook, and get into the next room if
WHICH IS THE BEAUTY?
THE PRESENT FASHION—AS SEEN IN COLLINS-STREET.
possible when he is standing oysters for six ballet-
girls And Marlborough can't kick them as he
did his wife ; he is too small, and he isn’t numerous
enough.
A “banker” who rejoices in a perennial
forty-dollar thirst, which he invariably slakes on
three star, overproof, organised a “ tear” lately,
and, whilst under its influence, caught his horse,
jumped on him without saddle or bridle, and
galloped him round and round the hank verandah
at about 3 a.m. The verandah being of wood, the
echo of the steed’s frantic hoo s aroused the town-
ship which flocked to the scene of action. After the
circus was over, the “banker” led the horse in-
side to his bedroom and tied him with a towel to
the bedpost for the night. That horse says he
really thinks man a “ little lower than the a' gels.”
A Melbourne solicitor, brother of a
County Court Judge, who shpakes Frinch with the
purest and purtiest of accents, will shortly -mate
with a dark eyed lady from the ou'd counthry
whom he has especially imported for the ceremony.
Some nine months ago a field-officer hold-
ing command in a Victorian battalion left that
colony without leave (his nine months’ furlough
having been cancelled) under circumstances
alleged to be discreditable. He is now back
again, and instead of allowing half-forgotten cir-
cumstances to die out altogether, threatens, it is
said, to revive the whole question, previously
tried in camera, by an action at law against his
former commanding officer. The case, if heard
still be a source of infinite profit to the door
keepers at the Court, for the scandal-loving publi
will throng to see the “mysterious Fanny” in th
box, and to hear what they expect to be the mos
astounding thrilling revelations.
There is a good opening for bachelor
light-weight jockeys in India. Quite recent y the
Nawab of Bhawulpore presented a young HlDglish
man with a quantity of native dresses and tco
wives, for winning a race. It is not an unusua
thing for our j'ckeys to have two wives, but they
hare to buy the ladies themselves.
A young girl, 15 years of age, dressed in
a green plush hat, and with a black satin sun-
shade, is advertised for in the Melbourne papers.
“ On her petticoats there is the name Flore co.”
If Miss Flo has changed the dres3 and hat and
“popped’ the sunshade, how is any benevolent
person to spot her by the rest of the description ?
There is more than meets the eye in those
innocuous-seeming “exquisites” who glide along
the floor of drapers’ establishments, clad in frock
coats and smiles. Smyth, the bigamous preacher,
who got five years’ for swindling a duller hypo-
crite than himself, was formerly a Melbourne
shopwalker. So was Kdwardes, the giddy groom
who figured as co-respondent in the celebrated
Malpas divorce case In fact, it is questionable
whether such dangerous dawgs as shopwalkers
ought to be allowed to carry scissors.
Ladies who like to keep abreast of sassiety
customs will be glad to know that it is now the
correct capar on board a mail steamer for the fair
creatures to have a cigarette in the smoking-
room along with the men. At least one lady and
one man did it regularly on a recent voyage in a
very swell boat and didn’t seem any the worse
for it.
One of the maddest men in N.S.W. to day
is a young fellow in the Forbe3 district, who
recently tripped gaily along, with his ownest own
by his side, to a certain clergyman for the pu -pose
of being married. As the lady was under age,
however, the parson declined to perform the
execution until the consent of her parents was
obtained. The expectant bridegroom smiled con-
temptuously at such a trivial obstacle, and,
mounting his horse, he rode to the home of his
ladye fayre, a distance of 100 miles, obtained the
consent, galloped back on the wings of love, as it
were, and once more ranged himself and his sool s
delight before the duly-qualified matrimonial
riveter. “ You got the necessary consent, I pre-
sume,” said the parson. “Oh, yes,” replied the
happy man ; “ it's all fixed up this time.” "Very
good,” observed the other, “ hand it to me, please.”
"Oh, I’ve got nothing to hand,” said the joyful
groom ; “ you see, th' old man was busy, so I just,
told him what I wanted, and he said, ‘ All right,
sonny, go ahead, the gal's yours’; so I jumped
into the saddle again and galloped all the way
back.” Then the parson firmly but respectfully
told the young man that a verbal consent wasn’t
worth a drmaged egg, and the only thing left was
to send a telegram and the reply would be ac-
cepted. But the young man’s rage, on finding
that he had his long ride for nothing, was greater
than his love ; he refused to send the wire, and,
as a matter of course, he is still unspliced, and the
wedding feast is wasted.
Lord Cairiis has arrived ia Melbourne,
under the charge of High-Commissiooer-for-New
Guinea Komib , who, by ihe way, has now
grown to be a lordly and unapproachable swell
Cairns, on close examination, proves to be a tsl
and lady-like individual with a moustache ; he
fceems inclined to be agreeable, and, as there were
no girls on board to mash, his bear-leader managed
to bring him through right to the end of the
voyage in good order and condition. But, all the
same, we fear he'll never come back alive frofn
New Guinea. Before he has been there three
days he'll make the acquaintance of some un-
adorned native beauty, and then her father or her
uncle will stick his axe in his loin-cloth and go
out to serve a writ on Cairns for breach of pro-
mise, and the way they sei ve writs in New Guinea
is unhealthy for the human skull and promotes
sudden dea'h.
• * *
Bosiato and Jimmy Thompson are the best
dinnered men in Victoria at present. Bqsisto
biings himself round on eucalyptus oil; Jimmy
prefers champagne and soda. ' ,
The Melbourne Daily Telegraph pub-
lished a paragraph concerning the Baron de Joest,
a rich and eccentric Parisian, who died lately, and
whom it concludes to be mad, because “he lived
in a simple manner, attended only by a female
servant, young and good-looking,” &c. and whom
“he was in the habit of changing once or twice a
month.” Hum! Yes! Perhaps he was mad.
Perhaps he should have ——. But if he had been
a reverend man and above suspicion and had
changed her every three days, what then J On
the whole, we decide not to pursue this supposi-
tion any further.
There is a man still living in Australia who
once supplied 110,000 gallons of rum and water for
100 guests. J S. Butters, ex-Mayor of Melbourne,
ex-King of Fiji, and in fact ex-more things than
the majority of mankind have ever dreamt of, also
bosom friend and host to Aif. Duke of Edinburgh,
once entertained 100 guests in his mansion in the
outskirts of Melbourne. It was long before a city-
water-supply existed, but Mr. Butters) had a
60,000 gallon tank and was seldom short of some
fluid to wash with. His party was a brilliant one,
and as it was in the roystering days of the gold)
fever even the ladies did not look shocked when
they were invited to have some rum and water—
indeed, they all assented without being asked
twice. Then J.S B. hollered to his gilded menial
to fetch a bucket, and the liquor was pumped out
of the tank while the party looked on awe-stricken.
It was the genuine poison beyond a doubt, but
they could not believe that the happy man existed
anywhere who owned a tank of rum, and after
they had drunk up the bucketful they made a
simultaneous rush for the pump-handle. Five,
ten, fifteen gallons were brought up, andstill there
was no sign of dryness; twenty, forty, fifty
gallons, and Butters cheered them on until at
last a hundred gallons of the snake and blue-dog
producing beverage had been poured out into a
legion of pails, hut the mo3t vigorous and vocifer-
ous tasting slrowed that the due proportion of
rum was still there. Then the top of the tank
was taken off and the guests, who were now
nearly nose-blind thrjugh much sampling, gazed
lovingly at the whole 60,000 gallons and pro-
nounced it genuine. As it happened, however
Butters had more’y sunk a two hundred-gal-
on cask of rum and water at the bottom
of the tank, and attached it to the pump
pipe, but the few of his guests who survive look
up to him still as a man who once owned enough
rum to float a ship. It was an age of munificence,
and munificence in those days always look the
shape of something to drink that would kill at
ten paces.
Why are lords made aides-de-camp ? Is
it because they can be got cheaper than anybody
else ? or is it that their intellectual faculties are
just up to the flunkey level l Heerhurst is the
second lordling whom Governor Loch has had as
aide-de camp. The other one was Castlerosse, son
of the Earl of Kenmare, whose tenants in Kerry
have been waiting to havo a shot at him for many
months.
Mark Moss said at his daughter’s wedding
in Melbourne on 10th inst. that occasionally the
Jo Wo returned some of the money they got from
the Christians by way of entertainments and din-
ners. Joyful news, isn’t it ?
Sassiet.y will be glad to learn that Lord
St. Leonards has returned to Sydney.
* * #
Dion Boucic lult’s divorce case was to come
before the London court last month.
* * *
Toung Lord Dudley appears to affect
some of the eccentricity of his lafo papa. At
Fleminglon, on Champion day, he cut a remark-
able figure in white linen trousers, oolour?d shirt,
and tall hat. The iace-giasses slung across his
champagne-bottle shoulde-s were in imminent
peril of slipping off. Little Lord D.; by the way,
has a good deal of the Countess about him, and
affords an illustra’ion of the well-known fact that
a man can he singularly like a beautiful woman
without being in the least beautiful himself.
The marriage of Mr. Fred. M‘Quade and
Miss Emily Skaratt took place very quietly at St.
Andrew's Church, Summer Hill, Sydney, on Tues-
day, the Bth inst. The bride wore a walking
costume of sage green, gros-grain, trimmed with
velvet of a darker shade, a becoming little bonnet
trimmed with ribbon and feathers, fastened at the
chin with diamond brooches; she carried a beauti
ful bouquet of white flowers.
At Geraldton (W.A.) the persuasive chair-
leg seems to be coming more and more into
fashion. At a recent race-dinner one “ gentle-
man” brought another down with a botile and in
the difference of opinion that ensued every quad-
rupedal piece of furniture in the room was taken
to pieces. A troublesome plebeian called in the
Governor to inveitigate the conduct of sundry
J’s.P , who had taken a hand in this affair, but
the representative of the Crown put his hair into
his ears anddecliied to hear. At an assembly
ball, a month ago, anoLher J. P. hit a friend over
the head with a staircase-or rather, a banister,
that being all of the staircase he could root up—
and left him insensible and nearly dead. A fort-
night later another of the high-toned multitude
argued a point with a bottle in either hand and
did his best to manufacture a corpse, and a few


minor btutalities Are perpetrated by His Excel-
lency’s friends almost daily. In West Australia
no policeman dares to run in any would-be mur-
derer who belongs to the tipper classes, and the
papers pass over tneir little game 3 in silence, and
in consequence the place is not a very healthy one
for any poor man who is uni''compan ! ed by a bull-
dog.
* * *
If there’s any truth in the law of heredity
what miracles of financial ability should result
from the union that takes place in Melbourne this
week!
Government House, Melbourne, seems to
be a lively crib. No sooner is the atmosphere dis-
infected of one nasty scandal, than another crops
up. Here’s a fine opportunity for the Social
Purity Society.
* * «
Invitation cards are out in Melbourne for
a wedding between the accomplished Dr. Louis
Henry and a young lady who has many shekels,
and who was to have been married in Sydney last
year.
A young colonial lad, son and heir of an
Irish baronet, married his cou-in in Melbourne on
Shrove Tuesday. The young gentleman is not a
millionaire nor is the bride an heiress ; so the
marriage was strictly private.
Mrs. P. P. Samuell gave an “At Home ”
at her residence, Calingra, Woollahra, on Thurs-
day eveniog last.
Captain Williams, A.D.C. to Lord Caring-
ton, left for England in the R.M.S. Orient on
Saturday, March 12.
The proportion of young Englishmen with
handles to their names who visit these shores and
turnout “ wasters” is alarmingly large in propor-
tion to the total, and suggests the reflection that
either their impoverished parents send their in-
tractable offspring to the colonies nominady on
duty, but really to save the expense of a bear-
leader, or that the rising generation of the English
aristocracy is turning eut vicious and worthless.
Victoria seems to have been particularly favoured
with mauvais sujets of this description. One
cadet of a noble house is said to be now in Queens-
land, but in what part his Melbourne tailor and
bootmakers do not think it worth while to inquire;
a second (after changing his religion) disappeared
before settling-day ; an aide dc camp, for
reasons not officially explained, was relieved from
his functions long previous to the expiry of his
term ; and now another, after trying conclusions
with a bookmaker in a pothouse, is haviog it cut
with him in the police court on an assault sum-
mons. When the black list is swelled by the
heir 3 of famous Lord Chancellors, and of peers
high in the roll who have imitated the example of
Lord Marmion, it becomes time to protest against
the import»tien of noble scapegraces, and to peti-
tion that the Jubilee Year be celebrated by the es-
tablishment of an asylum for them in some part
of the world other than Australia.
Whether the smiles of the lady who
worked the beer-pump at the National Hotel,
Bourke-street, Melbourne, complicated the trouble
between Sutton and Viscount Deerhurst, nobody
yet knows. By-the-way, we are left for the time
in ignorance as to the reason why the Thompsons,
Moseses, Aaronses, and other refioed gentlemen
who form that nice society tribunal the Victorian
Betting Club have undertaken to follow the ex-
treme course of deprivirg a brother-metallician of
his livelihood.
More enfant terrible. The little daughter
of a high-up N.B.W. Government official was
prattling to a visitor one day, and this is how she
gave her pa away in one act. “We never buy
penoils or paper or ink or blotting-pads since pa
got into the office, he brings all those kind of
things home now. When pa brings big blotting-
paper pads they have -- printed on them, but
pa pastes a pretty card over the mark, ’cause
he says it doesn’t look pretty I ” As Dr. Watts says ;
“ It is a sin,” &c. (very much &c.).
* * *
An Age advt. :
t ADY, new arrival, wishes a situation as hous* maid
in a gentleman's family. A.8.C., Carlton P. 0.”
• * *
A recently-exported young European
has been milking the local cowin Melbourne forail
the animal is worth. Like his esteemed principal
he went about reeking whom he might devour,
and being strong in thejaw he managed to fix his
teeth in a well-known off-handed gentleman whose
toughness was not quite equal to the demands
made upon it. This gentleman is wedded
to an accomplished s ; nger w ho, though she has
practically abandoned the stage as a profession,
still has from time to time a hankering for new
triumphs, and above all desires to make her debtit
in an Eaglish theatre. Accordingly both he
and his wi'e set down the beguiling stranger a 3
a very nice person indeed, when, some four or five
months after the beginn’ng of their acquaintance-
ship be produced a letter headed (in printed
characters) “ Drury Lane Theatre,” and signed
“Augustus Barris,” which ran something like
this;
“Dear . Delightel to hear from you once more.
Send the Ldy along at-ay £l2 weekly, I finding ihoes. If
she proves as good < s you say will in.rease the amount with
pleasure."
The sweet little man from “ home ” explained to
his scquaintaDce that Augustus Harris was his
best and dearest friend, and that when in England
hi 3 legs were fairly danced off by constant attend-
ance at the Harrisian entertainments. The proud
husband naturally overflowed with thanks. He
wrote home accepting the offer and —he lent the
little man £3O without waiting to be asked for it
twice. TheD, as the novelists say, time rolled on,
but when the mail with Augustus’ reply was just
abtut due the blossom from home wanted his new
friend’s acceptance of bids amounting to some
£l3O more, and the lend r of the £3O began to
peroeive a rat floating in the air. He put the
matter off for a day or so, and in the interval he
received a letter which seemed to be signed by
quite a different Augustus, and which ran as
follows:
“ Dear S r,—You have evidently beeD bad. I nevr before
heard of Mr , Dor did I know anything of Miss
until I receivtd your letter. Yours sympathetically,
Augustus Harris "
When the enraged husband met the wroDg-doer,
who had thus raised money i n his wife, it was in
a crowd on the steps of a certain theatre. He
asked him to come out and be skinned, but he did
not come. In fact the pompous swell who,
according to his own account, had danced his legs
off at every aristocratic ball in London, suddenly
shrank up, and whined out : “ Don’t hit me ; if
you hit me you hit a dying man,” and the noble
Australian threw him away in disgust. He still
goes ab yut talking of his acquaintance with Ed-
mund Yates and Augustus Harris in the days be-
fore he came to this “ blawsted country of Aus-
tralia,” but he doesn’t talk quite so loudly as he
used to.
/because Wales got married on lOtli March
21 years ago, Tasmania kept holiday on Thursday
last week. To celebrate the joyful anniversary
preperly, all telegraph-offices were closed from
10 a.m. to 6 p.m. We thought better of Tasmania
* * *
What does Adith the Escaped One say to
this, which we cut from the Melbourne D.T. of
sth inst. ?
O’MEARA— HAD3.—On the Ist November, 1886, at St.
Paul's R.C. Church, Coburg, by the Rev. M. Hayes. P.P.,
James Thomas Patterson, only son of Michael O'Meara,
district president of St. Patrick’s Sroiety, and nephew of the
Hon. J. B. Patterson, M.P., to Annie, eldest daughter of the
late William Hade, of Coburg, niece of the Hon. Henry
Bolton, and cousin of the Right Rev. Dr. T. J. Carr, Arch-
bishop of Melbourne."
Here’s a chance for a religious fusion ! J.B P.,
Head of the Orangemen, a connection by marriage
of the new Melbourne R. C. Archbishop !
Mr. Dailey is, we are sorry
to say, still very unwell, aEd is,
consequently, unable to eat much,
but he had at least one good square
meal in his life-time, and' the
memory of it keep 3 him up. A
good many years ago he invited Sir
John O’Shanassy to dine with him
at the Australian Club, Sydrey,
and that eminent Irishman sho-
velled down the victuals with the
air of a man who wanted some-
thing filling and couldn’t get it. It
was a dainty dinner in every re-
spect, but Sir John looked worried
and uneasy. At last Plain Bill
made a remark in praise of the
Club cuisine, and his guest re
sponded hesitatingly : “ Ye-es, it’s
a very good feed I suppose.”
There was something so depressing
in this praise that Dailey gave way
to a sudden burst of petulance,
and exclaimed ; “ Now, look here,
Sir John, what is your ideal
dinner!” “I'll tell ye,” said the
O'Shanassy, in a burst* of confi-
dence, “ I don’t think there’s any-
thing I like to well as a big piece
of belly pork and lots of greens.”
And then he smacked his lips with
the air of a man who was looking
bark into a vista of past enjoyment
and reneated slowly and softly,
“Yes, I like boiled pork and cab-
bage.”
The N S.W. Parliament
opened on Wednesday, lull inst.,
with all the beauty of Sydney
looking or. As the gallery holds
only 200, and some 600 tickets were
issued, the fair creatures were
somewhat “ tqueedged ” In the
afternoon of the same day the Syd-
ney Lancers gave an entertainment
in the Inner . Domain. It wasn’t
much of an entertainment, but it
was much the better fun of the
two. The chief feature of the
show was the speech of Major Mac-
Donald, who laid the jam on to
Lord Carington, and instituted
comparisons between him and
Lord Loftus. The latter, it
seems, refused the Lancers permis-
sion to use the Inner Domain,
while Lord C., who admires this
corps of useless dummies, has
allowed them to cavort round the
grass to their hf arts’ content, The
Major’s harangue was carefully
suppressed by the papers.
We have just learned with tears that poor
Lord Dudley, after all, has only £140,000 a year.
An amalgamation is proposed between the
Union and Australian Clubs (Sydney), but the old
fogies of the latter institution object stroDgly, and
wish to retain their individuality—such as it is—
to the end.
The Sydney Lancers have now pretty well
discarded the lorg bamboo straue from which they
take their name ; also they are getting rid of the
frogged coats and the spangles This alteration is
greatly owing to Lord Carington, and Colonel
Richardson, who is exceedingly wroth, declares
that the men now resemble a lot of “ blanked
policemen."
Viscount Deerhurst will one day be Earl of
Coventry. Loch had better send him to Coventry
at once.
Nearly a’l Victorian stocks have fallen—
particularly mining stocks. But the brewery
shares are higher than ever. Which shows that
a nation will have its beer.
Editor Bulletin —Sir, —Referring to your
recent article on “ The Beauteous Terrorist, and
other Poems, by a Wanderer,” and more particu-
larly to one headed to “ Arabella G., of Sacra-
mento ” commencing—
-11 You ask me why I love you sweet."
I beg to draw your atten ion to the fact that this
poem appeared in the Christmas number of the
Town and Country Journal for 1885, under the
title “ What is lovt?” —E.W.H.
Mr. James Macandrew, of Now Zealand,
who died last week, was a kind of local Parkes
with a little brains and decency and mi„us ’Enry’s
hair, his impudence, his shifty tricks, and his
yellow dog. He was superintendent of Otago in
the early days, but his cash got mixed and he was
suspended. He was promptly re elected however,
by the almost unanimous vote of the province.
Then the Central Government tried to put him
down, but something very like a rebellion arose,
and the haughty ones from England caved in.
The superintendent was a man of immense ideas ;
in 1866 he endeavoured to get the people of Otago,
40,000 in all, to start a direct mail service to
Europe via Panama, and when he was a-ked
where the mom y was to come from he requisi-
tioned for a bale of paper aud a printing press to
turn out notes by steam-power. Mr. Macandrew
was a member of the ” Clean Shirt Ministry” of
1854, and took office again in 1877. He was a
Christian, and believed in hell ; and when he and
the rest of the Grey Government burst up and -ir
Julius Vogel, then Agent-General, found that the
Trea-ury was empty and that he had to raise
£1,000,000 in about a week to avert a national
bankruptcy, that semi-Hebrew financier began to
share Mr. Macandrew’s views on the subject of
eternal horrors.
PERSONAL ITEMS
The niece of Bobbie Burns died dt Ayr re-
cently, aged 81 yeara.
It was Dr. Rose, of Victorian divorce cele-
brity, who got his friend Weeding created a J.P.
Will Weeding now sit on the Bench ?
W. P. Morgan, late of Queensland, has
cleared £70,000 through the tempora-y fall which
Sir Sam’s cablegram caused in Queensland mining
shares in London.
A young Church of England clergyman
has been remarkable for his constant attendance
at the Italian ope ain Melbourne. There was no
ballet —or more of ’em would have been there.
Mr Phil. Day, the actor, whose health
has long been far from good, now lies terribly ill
at Melbourne—of lung-disease. There feems,
we regret to say, but little probability of his re-
covery.
Mr. John Wood, who died the other day
at Merri Merri Creek (V-S-W.), aged 108 years,
left two children, 15 grandchildren, 69 great-
/
IMS K %£
COi jf
C;j] ¥Vit>|(?i/'f mu
9^*
grandchildren, and 5 great-great grandchildren*
He did a good deal in his time to stop immigra-
tion.
When the Queen received the news of
Lord tddesleigh’s death, she exclaimed “ Impossi-
ble ! ” To her it was inconceivable that the Angol
of Death shou’d call upon one of her precious
peers without giving the gentleman a few days’
notice.
Lord Deerhurst, the associate of Sutton,
the bookmaker (whom he could not pay), numbers
among h s ancestors Lady Dorothy Packington,
the reputed authoress of “ The Whole Duty of
Man.’ Djerhurst knows more of bettirg-books
than of Dorothy's pious efFort.
At the hearing of the case of Viscount
Deerhurst v. Bookmaker Sutton, at Melbourne
City Court, last week, a new gilt-edged Bible was
provided for his lordship to be swo non ! By the
way, the Victorian metropolitan honorary-magis-
trate bench-packii g system is a disgrace to civili-
sation.
Poor old Dowie, the faith-healer, has got
badly sold in New Zealand. Several of the
patients he has cured have taken up the healing
biz. on their own account, and are now running
him a hot opposition in divers places. They seem
to have got the hang of the job quite as well as
Dowie, if not better.
Hingston, the Wanderer ( I ’J.H.” of the
Argus) is laid up in Poland. He Iras unfortunately
broken his leg for the second time. Poor J.H. !
Like the sea-sick man who pulled faces at “A
Life on the Ocean Wave,” he will hardly appre-
ciate the lovely air about the fair land of Poland
after this.
Sir Henry Holland, the new Secretary of
State for the colonies, is the son of our Gracious
Queen's favourite accoucheur. The story goes
that the late Sir Henry refused a peerage when
he heard that certain club wags had given him a
title in advance. Their little joke consisted in
calling the acoucheur “LoTd Deliver-us.”
William Lane, of Alma road, St. Kilda
(Vic.), is dead. He is the person whom P.A.C.
O'Farrell threatened to do somethiog to, and
O'Farrell got into gaol in consequence of not being
able to find sureties for keeping the peace. Still
we don't hear of O'Farrell being released from
durance. He can hardly annoy Lane now.
The George Hotel, St. Kilda, Melbourne,
suffered slightly the other day from a flash of
lightning, it is considered probable that Divine
Providence had an idea of launching its thunder-
holts against that well-known romancer, J. H.
HiDgston, hut suddenly remembering that Hing-
ston was absent, it paused in the job of visiting
him with the fate of Ananias.
Poor Valentine Browne, champion liti-
gant of the Victorian Civil Service, has been sat
upon for “ cheeking ” Duncan Gillies’ secretary.
The Executive Council reduced Valentine’s salary
from £250 to £lBO and shunted him fiom the Pre-
mier's office. Under the3e distressing circum-
stances, the ii rcpressible cleik will probably
dppeal to the country, or enter intd negotiation
with the Czar.
“ Ah, Waxtnan ! ” exclaimed DaVid B'aif
the other day to Aaron Waimm, the arch Usurer
of Melbourne—* 'have you a thousand pounds to
lend me, on no security, to be repaid when I wish T'
“Mygootvrend Mr. Blair,” replied Aaron, “I
haf no money to lend now. I mean to get in all
that is owed me ard then to retire and lend money
no more ” Two days afterwards Aaron was
killed. Man proposes.
The poor dear Bishop of Wellington was
coming downstairs about a fortnight ago when
his foot slipped and he turned head over heels.
He flew through the air for about 20 feet and
finished with a hollow thud, a howl, and three
groan 3, after which all was still. It took an hour
and a half to bring him round, and he might not
have been round yet had not somebody yelled in
his ear that a quarter’s salary was due.
The Rev. Mr. Shuttleworth, of London, is
a shepherd who is in a fair way for getting it hot.
Not only did he entertained a lot of the chief
members of his flock at a dance recently, just as
if he were a common ugly sinner, but he gave the
hop in a swell public-house, and some of the
tender lambs of the flock drifted downstairs at
intervals and swilled beer and other godless drinks
at the bar. Piety doesn’t go well in double har-
ness with square gin, and there is likely to be a
shindy over the mixture of the two.
The comparative silence-for two years
past of the doughty Mr. Bruce Smith (who will
shortly resume practice at the N.S.W. Bar) is now
fully accounted for. He has in the press at Mel-
bourne a GOO-page-book on “ Liberty and Liberal-
ism,” the chief purpose whereof is, it is paid, to de-
nounce the socialistic tendency of modern legisla-
tion. In other words, Mr. Smith comes out boldly
as the champion of Individualism. Which should
be a source of much gratification to organisations
such as the British “ Liberty and Property Defence
League.”
In u Locksley Hall—Fifty Years After,”
Tennyson was made by the papers to say :
“ Even the black Australian, dying, hopes he may return a
white.”
The Bulletin has the authority of the Poet
Laureate, conveyed to it by special cable, for
stating that what Alfred meant to say, and would
have said but for the printer’s devil, was this :
“ Even the rich Australian, going, hopes he may return a
knight.”
Mr. Burdett Smith, M.L. A., will no doubt quite
approve of the revised version.
The Rev. Henry Ward Beecher has “ gone
over.” He was an old man with a good salary,
who didn’t believe in perdition, and who was once
su-pected of being too friendly with another man’s
wife. When the Tilton difficulty was over, he
issued a sort of pastoral in which he described
himself as having sat for years “on the rugged
edge of despair,”- but as there was no visible
damage about his pant 3 it was generally supposed
that this was only a figure of speech. Beecher
used a good many figures of speech, and some of
them came near bringing him in trouble.
One of the best portraits ever painted in
Australia is that by Arthur Loureiro of J. G.
Stewart, late Mayor of Melbourne, now b9ing ex-
hibited at the rooms of the Australian Artists’
Association in Swanston street. Loureiro gets
SOO guineas—raised by public subscription—for
his work, and it is worth more than the money*
The artist is by birth a Portuguese, but studied in
France, carrying off a celebrated prize at the
Academy of Paris He came out to Australia
for his health, and is related by marriage to
“Tasma,”once of the Australasian, but now
married to the leader of the Clerical party in
Belgium.
Aaron Waxman, usurer, died the other
day worth £lOO,OOO : while Moses Goldttein, the
man who started Aaron in business with a small
loan, filed his schedule in the Bankruptcy Court,
Melbourne, the same week. “ See how the fates
their gifts allot,” and still most of 113 would
sooner be poor Mo?es Goldstein alive but insol-
vent, than / aron after his fatal encounter with
the tree guard. As to Aaron, put in the other
side of the ledger ac ouot. There were some
credits to his name. A kind act here and a well-
directed doiation there have come to recollection
after his death. And we are not speakiDg Aaroni-
cally, either.
Smyth, the local preacher who swindled
Thomas lletallick, the confldirg Cornish farmer,
out of £3700, got five years in Melbourne on Tues-
day, Bth inst. Retallick, it will be remembered,
was a holy man who left England and his wife
with a servant-girl and plenty of cash —probably
to avoid the celebration of the J übilee year. The
cash gradually found its way into Smyth’s pocket,
but he generously left the Cornish farmer the
servant-girl. He would probably have embezzled
her if she could have been turned into money.
Five years means, under the Victorian Gaol Act,
a little over four at £9OO a year (value received).
The rest of the Smyths of society are probably
sighing because there are not more Retallicks to the
square mile in Australia.
With all Lord Salisbury’s misfortunes he
has escaped one great one in spite of the telegrams
which staged it was likely. The Duke of Norfolk
has not joined the Ministry. This would have
overturned the at-ple lorry at once. Norfolk is the
owner of the yacht “ Star of the Sea ” (bow down,)
Earl Marshal (lower, please) with the general ap-
pearance of a small and brainless tailor (rise up
now ) Further, what little mind he has is directed
by Cardinal Manning. He is the descendant of
the Curry powder Duke of Norfolk who recom-
mended currypowder m'xed with potatoes as a
remedy for Irish discontent. Gunpowder and
buckshot have since been tried with the same
success. Norfolk married on the advice of Mon-
signor Capel, but as far as progeny is concerned
the marriage was hardly a success.
A strange fact has come to light regarding
Dr Griver, the R.C. Bishop of Perth (W.A.), who
is now in Paradise along with George W., Ser-
jeant Ballantine and John Brown. When his
body was prepared for the grave it was found
that he wore on his back a wooden cross about a
foot long, which was kept in its place by five large
iron spikes driven into the flesh. Whether this
affair was worn by way of penance, or whether
his reverence carried it for fear he might some
day get belated and be short of wood for boiling
the billy, is not known, but he had evidently been
lugging the stump round for years. We suppose
there must be some place in the Hereafter for a
misguided wretch who makes his life on earth a
torture in this fashion, with the idea that liis
misery is acceptable to his Cieator, and we al-
most fancy we can hear the voice of the light
porter at the golden gate as he lets him in :
“ Please, ’ere’s a queer cove from West Australiar
that’s been a driving nails into hisself.”


ALFRED AND ADALGISA.
A ROMANCE FOUNDED ON ABSOLUTE FACT.
By V. J. D.
[For The Bulletin.]
Chapter I. —The Beginning of the Trouble.
It was a? nearly as possible nine o’clock a m. in
the Melbourne Women's Hospital. Perhaps it
was two or three seconds earlier. <r later. We
will not star to discuss this now.
Fifteen infants were lyi'g in a ro v on a large
bed.
They had just been washed and dressed.
The nurse, whose duty it was to wash them,
always laid them out in this way- like a row of
spoons.
It saved trouble.
Nurses do not like trouble.
They prefer portergaff.
Chapter ll.—The Mothers.
The mothers of the infants were asleep—all but
one who was in a state of high fever.
Her offspring was a baby boy.
The offspring of the woman in the next bed to
her was a baby girl.
Here the trouble begins.
Chapter lll.— The Infants.
The skin of the fifteen infants was very red.
They looked like one dozen and a quarter man-
gold-wurze's wrapped in calico.
Some of them were smiling.
A lady-visitor who was passing by remarked
this, and said to the nurse :
“The sweet little dears are listening to the
angels.”
The nurse laughed—a hard, unsympathetic
laugh.
“That’s only wind on the stomach,” she said,
turning them over cne by one on their faces and
pattirg them on the backs till they grew the
colour of boile 1 lobsters.
Nurses are devoid of imagination.
Constant absorption of portergaff make 3 them
gross and matter-of-fact.
Let it—our troubles !
CnAPTER IV.— The Transposition of the In-
fants.
The woman who ay in the bed next to the one
who was in a state of high fever woke up and
found a male infant beside her.
She began to cry.
“ What is the matter ? ” asked the nur3e.
“ They have taken away mi dear little angel
girl,” sobbed the mo'her, “ and—and—p it this
ugly imp of a boy in her place—and I want my
sweet little baby back again.”
The nurse saw at once that she had made a mis-
take.
Mixed up the infants, in fact
But she would not acknowledge this.
Nurses never do.
They are like the Evening News in this re-
spect.
She also saw that it would bo useless to reason
with the woman and point out to her that all new-
born babies were so much alike that it was diffi-
cult to tei the difference between them, and that
there'ore a trifling error of his knd was excus-
able.
Mothe-s never believe this.
They all think that nature broke her mould
after producing their own part calar baby.
It Is an amiable delusion.
Let us respe ct it.
Cur mothers thought that way once.
The cold world thinks differently.
It is humiliating to have to admit that the cold
world Is right.
Chapter V. — The Other Mother.
At the end of a fortnight the woman who was
in a fever came out of it.
It left her, in fact.
The first thing she did wa > to cry.
Ihe nurse came and a-ked her what was the
matter.
She replied that somebody hod taken away her
little cherub-boy and put a wizen-Lced elf of a
girl in his place.
The nurse denied this, and insisted that she had
given birth to a girl.
But the woman refused to bs convinced.
“ Mu child had lovely black hair, like silk,” she
Bobbed
“ Well said the nurse.
“Ah, my God !” cried the unhappy woman,
■“ this one has red hair—like a dingo ! ” And she
Wept afresh. But the nurse stuck ti her ground
Bhe vowed that the woman had brought a girl
into the world.
" How should you know ? ” she said to her,
11 you were unconscious at the time, and have
been in a fever ever since. It is only a hallucina-
tion. But if you must have a boy 1 can bring you
one. There are plenty.”
The poor woman, being too weak to argue, said
no more, but drew the little red headed mite to
her bosom.
Chapter VI. —The Effects of Custom.
In course of lime the two mothers grew accus-
tomed to their changelings. The nurse, by con-
stant repetition of her story, had got them to
believe it at last. They exhibited their infants
to each other with pride. Each praised the
child of the other, while each in her secret heart
believed her own was several times sweeter, and
dearer and pr< ciouser. The nurse smiled in her
sleeve. She had wide sleeves made for the pur-
pose.
Such is the Irony of Fate.
Chapter Vll.— Confidences.
The two mothers grew very friendly and cmd-
dential.
The husbands of both had deserted them.
They described them to each other.
One was atall man, with beautiful black whis-
kers, and a cast in his left eye.
He used to write poetry ftr the paper, t'reday
he came home and there was no beet in the house.
The publican had re!used to give any more
credit.
He—the husband—sat down and wrote atouch-
ing poem beginning with
"Farewell! Farewell! to this cold world.”
Then he smashed some furniture and went out.
He never came back again.
The husband of the other was a corporation
labourer.
He was a little man, with broad shoulders and
bow legs.
His hair was red.
He also smashed some furniture, and left be-
cause his wife had lent his Elzevir Edition of the
Classics to the pawnbroker. He never returned.
Chapter Vlll.—Partners.
When tha two deserted wives left the Hospital
they agreed to b3eoma partners in a mangle.
A subscription was made for them and a mangle
bought.
Then they christened the two infants. The boy
was named -A lfred —the girl Adalgisa.
They were good names and calculated to throw
a glamour of romance over the budness.
We most no w turn to other scenes.
Chapter IX.— The Execution.
A man is ab ni. to bi hanged.
He it a mi idle aged mu w t'.i hay coloured
hair.
He is calm
Not a muscli quivers.
He looks the gr.m hmgman in the eji ard
smile 3.
This is not b-avado : it ii cou ag!.
He knows he is going to bo hanged.
However he has nothing to do with th s story.
Let him hai g.
This is how nove s are written.
It is as ea9y.as drinking.
I Chapter X.—The Two Husbands.
We are on an iceberg.
It is ploughing its way up from thB awful
silences of the Antarctic circle. Let us pause and
consider the Antarctic circle.
It is a terrible thing.
It refutes to be “squared” for any considera-
tion in gold.
It was first discovered by Sir James Ross. He
brought away a piece of it, which is now in the
possession of the Royal Geographical Society, if it
has not melted, or been stolen since.
Two men are on the iceberg.
One is a tall man with black whiskers and a
cast in his eye.
He is dressed in a plug hat and a frock-coat.
The other is a short man, with broad shoulders
and bow legs.
His hair is red.
The tall man is blaspheming, and calling out
for beer and tobacco.
The short man is softly murmui ing to himself
a passage from the “ Philoctetes.”
Both are very gaunt and hungry-looking.
They have been dwelling on this iceberg for 18
years.
During that time all they have had to live upon
was half a sea-serpent and a tin of preserved
milk.
Such was the story told by the tall man to the
whalers afterwards.
They were shipwrecked on the iceberg, and
were the sole survivors of a crew of 40 souls.
There were people who said when the account
was published that when Gabriel blew his trump
these tvro would answer to 40 names.
This may have been a mere calumny. Anyhow
it could never be proved against them.
I Chapter XI —The End of the Two
! Husbands.
I They were very hungry.
I The Ja9t piece of sea-serpent had been eaten six
[months before.
The tall man paused in his blasphemy, and said
»in a hollow voice : “ Delays are dangerous. Never
put off till to-morrow what can be done to-day.
We have nothing else to eat —we must eat each
other,” which they did.
They took turn-about at cutting steaks Jrom
each other.
The icy air froze up the cuts as soon as made.
They felt no inconvenience from them, and
made many jcke3, which I regret I am unable to
reproduce here.
In this manner they lived for two years more.
At the end of that time the short man was con-
sumed.
The tall man lasted longest.
This wa* but natural.
One day a body of whalers looking for seals
landed on the iceberg.
They found a small heap of bones, and beside it
the head and spinal column of the tall man.
He still wore his plug hat, and his frock coat
still huDg aiound his close-picked vertebroe.
Thus does civilised man cling to respectability
to the end.
He was sleeping at the time.
They jabbed him in the ear with a hsrpoon and
he awoke.
“At last! ” he murmured, “ at last I see the
faces of my kind again.” Then he told them his
stoiy, and gave them the address cf his wife, in
Collingwood, saying—“ Tell her I forgive her, and
have not forgotten her all these years.
the lining of my hat and you will find a
poem. Give it to her and tell her to get it
published in Melbourne Punch. The pro.
coeds (if the has luck) may enable her to
buy something - perhaps a jug of beer.
Alas ! they will buy no beer for me. An I
now cold world, adieu !’’ (You wilt notice
that there is a good deal about the cold
world in this story. That ii because it is
true. If it were not it would be easy to
leave the cold world out —in the cold )
After this affecting speech the head
borrowed a piece of tobacco and died ex-
pectorating.
Thus two characters drop out of the story.
I Chapter XII.
Let us now return to the mourning Penelopes.
For two or three years they lived together ami-
cably, and made a modest living.
They were respected by all who knew them, and
mangled for the Bishop.
Alfred and Ada'gisa were very fond of each
other
They made mud-pies together and divided them
equally.
They also shared their toffee with each other.
But this blissful time came to an end at last.
Their mothers quarrelled.
I forgot what it was about —a flat-iron, perhaps,
or possibly a rolling-pin.
It does not matter, anyhow.
I will therefore say nothing more about it.
They dissolved partnership.
The mother (as she thought herself) of Adalgisa
sold out her share to the other and took a public
house.
She made money very fast when Adalgisa was
old enough to go behind the bar.
Adalgisa is 20 years old in this chapter.
Chapter Xlll.—Adalgisa.
She was very pretty, though her hair was red.
Her admirers called it auburn.
One of them, who was connected with the
papers, wrote a poem on it in which he compared
it to the sunset.
Then he proceeded to owe half-a-crown for
drinks.
But the head of Adalgisa was not turned by all
this flattery.
Her heart was still true to the playmate of her
childhood.
She loved Alfred, though her haughty mother
forbade her ever to speak to him.
Her haughty mother called him “ the son of a
common mangle-woman.”
But Adalgisa cherished her love in secret, and
always managed to plan*-, in a place agreed upon
between them, a gallon or two of beer to tide
Alfred over the Sunday.
Thus does woman’s love laugh at the Licensing
Act.
CIIAPTFR XIV.—AI FRED.
Alfred is 20 years old in this chapter.
He is a good youth.
He carries clothes backwards and forwards for
his (supposed) mother.
ne also turns the mangle.
Likewise he loves Adalgisa
But he knows that his passion for Adalgisa is
hopeless.
He is aware that her haughty mother has higher
views in store for her.
He despairs.
One night the lovers meet and agree to commit
suicide.
They each fasten a copy of Melbourne Punch to
their feet and are about to throw themselves into
the Yarra when a voice behind them cries “Stop I”
They stop.
The voice procec da from a woman.
It is the nur e who charged them when they
were infants.
It may seem somewhat curious that she should
come across them, for the first time in 20 years,
just as they were about to drown themselves, but
this is always the way it happens in novels.
Then she tells them the story of how they were
swapped.
They fall ii to each other’s arms, and weep tears
of joy.
“Now,” cues Alfred, triumphantly, “your
haughty mother—l mean my haughty mother—
shall no longer prevent you from marrying the son
of the despised mangle-woman -I mean of the
despised hotel-keeper—nor shall my mother —I
mean your mother .” He pauses abruptly.
“Adalgisa,” he remarks with solemnity, “ we
must work this thing out on paper. It is too in-
tiicate for the unaided brain.”
The nurse at this juncture borrows a shilling to
buy cough-iLixture, and promises to be round next
morning to make her depositions before a migis-
trate.
Chapter XV.—The Happy End.
Next morniDg the nurse is on hand. She makes
her deposit ; on on cath before a magistrate, and he
witnesses them with a quill pen.
The haughty mother is thunde struck
The humble mother weeps.
Each has crown to love the child of the other to
such an extent that to part with them is heart-
rending.
The nurse comes to the rescue.
“ They love each other,” she says—“ let them
marry. They will then be the children of both of
you.”
“ Heaven bless you for these words,” cries the
haughty hotelkeeper, embracing her, “while sou
have threepence you need never want a drink as
long as I keep a hotel.”
The nurse touched to the heart by this genero-
sity, weeps copiously.
Then the two mothers hug each other, and
agree to bury their quarrel about the flat-iron (or
rolling-pin) in the deepest part of oblivion.
Alfred and Adalgisa are married, and with their
mothers-in-love-and-law live together like a family
of turtle-doves ever afterwards.
The solitary iceberg with the little heap of bones
on it still ploughs its way through the silent
spaces of the Southern ocean. Let it plough. This
story is finished.


“THE BULLETIN.”
ADVERTISING CHARGES.
One
Insertion.
Per Inch, Single Column, ordinary £lO 0
Paragraph or special matter at double rates.
A series of insertions by arrangement.
Advertisements of a questionable nature not
taken at any price.
ALL ADVERTISEMENTS TO BE PREPAID.
No Agents,
CAUTION.
tST Printed Receipts on the light-green paper
upplied to its collectors, are alone recognised by
he Bulletin.
THIS WICKED
WORLD
At Christchurch (N.Z.), recently, a magis-
trate held that adebtor’s ability (! I) togetmarried
was proof that he had means to pay a debt At
Grafton (N.S.W.), where the floods rolled over
gum-trees, a reliable man states that he walked
over the river dryshod on the tops of floating
melons and pumpkins. We have said he was a
reliable man Said a N.Q. paper: “Our con-
temporary devotes a column and a half to abusing
us, Our answer is : ‘ Ha 1 ha ! ha 1 ho 1 ho 1 ho !
he 1 he he 1 ’ ’’ The next day the other rag retorted,
“ There was no other reply to be expected from a
jackass.” Banana juice seems to stimulate these
Northern intellects This is the style in which
the Port Macquarie News writes of a local clergy-
man. It says:—“His friends are certainly not
leading him in the narrow path, but they are
assuredly piloting him along the broad road
which leads to a destination which the smallest
child in his congregation can name.”
Potts, whs scaled tie wa'l of hij dungeon at
Queanbeyan (S. S W.) with a broom, was a tumb-
ler in a circus. He could’nt tumble to the bu'h,
though, and was caught...... The wife of a Gipps-
land labourer has presented her hub. with two
sons and two daughters on the same day. We
commend th's to Messrs Hodgkin and Hazsll, the
Emigrants’Office deputies At the election for
Mayor of Townsville, the votes for both candidates
being equal, Alderman Hubert moved that the
two candidates should go into the Mayor's room
and settle the little difference Count Von
Moltke has turned up among the drunks at
Brunswick (Vic.) the other day. He was weep-
ing bitterly and was much dragged; ultimately
he got off on the ground that he was nephew to
the silent old butcher of the same name We
remember Bismarck's “nephew,” the Baron Von
Sander,” who also visited Melbourne There are
some queer ambitions in this world. Thomas J
Brady for example, passed himself off at OuehuDga
(N'.Z ), as the special corretpoi dentof the Sydney
Morning Heraid, and strichnined him-elf to
death when he wa3 found out A Victoiiau
vigneron received an order from a London firm
for 670,000 gallons of wine the other day. The
suicide record in Eogland may be confidently ex-
pected to go up rapidly shortly after that wine is
landed The glitterir g golden cateway in the
Victorian court of the Colonial Exhibition fe’cted
£1 ss. at auction. It ’8 a lucky thing that the com-
missioners weren't offered for sale at the same
time. They might have beun sacrifice! for a
prltry “bob” ahead Elizabeth Mouliy was
“fined ten,” last week, for kicking a Melbourne
policeman with her dainty foot and hurling a
tumbler at his official head. Until quite recently
Elizabeth was a Sergeant-Major in the “ Harmy,”
and reckoned, one of the Loard’s best officers. The
policeman described her as either mad or drunk
or both Of such is the kingdom of Heaven. ...ffi
A hotel li< ense'has teen granted to a dead man in
Melbourne. Dead men are fondof wh-'sky-at hast
we presume so, for we never ead cf more than
one who asked for water ard he only desired a
single drop. He didn’t get it either.
* * •
Thirty of the Balaclava six hundred are
still showing how fields are won, according to a
London raper. The thirty wi’l take about two
centuries to die, and their various deaths will be
recorded several hundred times each year Io a
railway carriage. She : “ Sir, your toba co
smoke is blowing right into my face.” He :
“Madam, it must blow somewhere." A com-
monplace Cockney, named Paul, lately shuffled off
the mortal coil with a darning need'e He was
too poor even to buy a carving-knife, and burrowed
the needle "from a neighbour on the plea that 1 e
wanted to mend his socks. He darred himself,
however, in place of the c ocks, for when found
next morning he had driven the needle into hii
liver, lungs, and heart, and, after nine vigorous
iabs, had passed away Sauf r-kruit dulls not
the wit A German musician, whose wife re-
cently surprised him with twins, headed the news-
paper advertisement announcing the fact in this
style: “New music. Composed by Carl Roseu-
bachten." ...Itrupp, the German gun-maker,
says that he never succeeded in business ti 1 he
began drinking beer. If the young men of Aus-
tralia dont succeed in business it won't be
their fault A Brisbane payer speaks of an
opal “as large as a small hen’s egg” We
should think it would be difficult to set R.
A P. octor says : “ In 16,000,000 years not a drop
Of water will remain on the surface of th - earth.”
The outlook for the teetotalers grows gloomier
every year.
Henniker Heaton’s name is now hyphen-
ated by the Argus.
The very latest is that Queen Victoria is
going to marry Alexander of Battenberg.
In Sydney resides a vigorous gentlemai:,
over whose head 67 winters have rolled. Rut not
a gray hair has he. On the contrary, his full
beard is still of the same luxuriant auburn which
shimmered in the breezes when Bendigo was
youDg. The explanation is simple. Dye your
hair red, and nobody will suspect you. Dye it
black, and everyone will see through the trick. It
is thus plain that the man with red hair is the
fellow you can’t wipe out.
The Carlton C.C. will be deprived of the
services of their Captain (Percy S. M‘Donnell) for
some time, he having, it is rumoured, suddenly
joined the ranks of the Benedicts and gone to
Macquarie on his honeymoon.
If the Parkes Government persist in their
determination not to accept a tender for the
Nyngan-Cobar railway, four of their Freetrade
supporters will for a ceitainty join the ranks of
the Opposition. How's that for a beginning ?
A. certain nobleman created much sensa-
tion in Melbourne early the other morning by
turning into Bourke-street without either boots or
hat. A day or two previously he bad caused mild j
surprise by enteiing a swell ha rdresser’s and a-k-
-irgthemto sell him shum shcda and—hie two
razorsh.
There was much trouble at a certain Aus-
tralian Government House the other day, when a
landlord who had let to one of the attaches a
house under the impres ion that the sprig of
nobility was a married man, discovered that the
lordly one, though he kept cn hand a goodly sup-
ply of the fair, had not entered into the holy bonds
of wedlock.
The wife of a Williamstown (Melb.) man
has presented him with triplets. As the husband
is dying of consumption, and earning 30s. a week
as a clerk, rich people who have no children might
do worse than send a cheque for the mother to the
local Mayor.
Young actress, greatly pestered by the
attention of an elderly wooer :—“You say you
will grant me any favour I ask ? ” Aged
Admirer : “ Yes, dearest angel. I’ll do anything
in the world you ask of me.” Young Actrees :
“ Then propose to my grandmother. She is a
widow.”
The Victorian reporters (representing Mel-
bourne dailies) who accompanied Parkes on his
trip to Deniliquin, say privately that they are
woefully disappointed with his oratoiy both in
tone and argument. In their opinion, the large
meeting he held could have easily been turned
against him by even a second-rate Protectionist
speaker.
From one o p the Noumean papers :
“ The only victory won by the Australian volun-
teers for the Soudan was over a newspaper. They
broke open the office of the Bosphore Egyptiev,
smashed the printing types, and destroyed the
plant. Such, oh Soudaniens of • ydney, wa3 the
only victory gained by ycu in tt e land of the
Pharaohs.” Now, as a matter of fact, the N. S W.
' soldiers didn’t even conquer an editor ; they only
conquered a donkey. Pei haps, however, the
donkey was .
Much sympathy has been expresstd for
Mr. Richard Perks, a plsasant old gentleman who
came from Tasmania to Melbourne with prayer in
his heart and money in his purse. Somehow or
other, two effusive strangers took change of
Richard soon after his arrival, and conducted him
to the house of a lady in Little Bourke-street, in-
ducing him to partake of strong drink (a thing he
never touched, being a tee'otaller) atd sp'-ilirg
him cf nine guineas aid a pccket*btr k. How he
came to drmk with a lady in the shady purl eus of
Little Bourke-street pasaeth the undersiai ding
of Mr. R chard Perks, considering that his busi-
ness in the city that day was the purchase of
“ Words of Grace ’ for 4s. 6d. The general idea
an.org friends who know Mr. Ptrks as a blue
ribbon Christian is that he v ent to Litt’e Bourke-
s'reet to convert the lady, and got drunk on the
Blcsijed Word.
The solemn mummery of coil e rating
Field Flowers Gee, ai.d standing him in ih« dis-
ca*d r d brogues of J. Moorhouse was perforn ed
by his Grace the Archbi-hop of Canteibury. on St.
Mat hias’ Day. Th * collect for that particular
saini’e day ambles alor g lil c thin*: —
“O, Almighty God, who into the pl-ce of the traitor Jidas
didst choose Thy servnt Mittbias to be of the number of
th- Twelve Aoostles, grant that Tt y church, being alway
preserved from fa'se Apohtl s, may he oidered and guided hy
faithful and true pastors, through Jesus Christ cur Lord.
Am:o. ’
That's as rough as a hose-raspon J. Melbourne,
remember. James was not a faithful Apostle by
a very long journey, according to the orthodox
reading. He d ; d not hang tooth and nail to the
doctrines of the Atonement, and a future life of
eternal joy. If we may lake his v ord for it, an
all-night of feivent prayer would not bring down
rain enough to wa‘er a thirsty mo?quito, and he
even had his doubts about the inspiration of the
Scriptures.
The Melbourne Herald quotes a para-
graph from an Indian paper i n the ground that —
to use its own words —“it will t>e in*e esting to
our Salvation Army readers.'’ As we have no
doubt that it will be interesting to our Barmy
readers also, we will give it in brief, with a little
hyu n ot cur own bj way of chorus. Mrs. Colonel
Tucker, then, is on the fair way to be dc ad at an
early date, in Bombay, thr ughstarving herself
going without Tucker, so to s, eik —f-'r the sake
of the Lord and the Harmy. Colonel Tucker is
tearing around after the poor old Dtv.l in Ceylon
He —the Colonel, not the Devil—was telegraphed
to and asked to come to the death ted of his wife.
He replied that “ He could not fee his way to
leave the work of the Lord ” The drum
“ I hav«? gor e wi-hout my Tucker,” she said,
“ Halleluj h ! hallelujee!
Until I’m starved and near y dead—
Glory to the Lord,” says she.
“ My old missis will soon dead —
Hallelujah ! hallelujee !
She 11 shortly be with the Looard,” he said ;
“ Glory to the Looaid ! ’ fays be.
At the meeting htll ia Melbourne the
other day to discuss tbe pro osal to seDd 1000
Victorian cadets to Ingland in honour of the
Queen s Jubilee, one speaker was assured by the
chairman that “ nurses would be sent with the
corps’’ We should hope so, indeed, and not
only nurses but pip-perambulators and feeding-
bottles galore. A certain numbe- of “Toby
ticklee” should al<o be added, unless the sentence
by drum-head c uit martial on prssible offenders
is to be spanking by hand. Another speaker
“Believed that the cadets would be the guests
of the Am y in England, How delighted the
Scots Guards will be to renew their acquaintance
with Australian warriors so auspiciously begun in
the Soudan ! What a picture for the gods ! A
six-foot Guardsman towing a few cadet infants—
we mean infantry—through the park ! Hardbake
and gingernuts will then form the piece de resist-
ance at all mess-tables, and a pegtop competi-
tion between our Army (?) and the Blues and
the Coldstreams would crown the Jubilee celebra-
tion with Glory.
The great “Burlington” system across
the American Continent —After perusing a “ Bur-
lington’' railway book, and noth g the verdict of
[ thousands of Australian and English travellers—
which includes Lords, Dukes, and Governors —
one is struck with the thought that this must be
the trip of one’s life. To avail oneself of the
gratuitous aid of the wonderful Tom M‘Kay in
?an Francisco —to pass through the home of Mor-
mondom (Salt Lake City), and gaze upon the
Temple, which has taken 16 years to bring it to
its now about half-completed state, with its walls
of solid granite six feet thick —to pass through
the wonderful Silver City of Denver, and view in
transit from observa'ion-ca-s the seer ery of the
Rio Grande, which for grandeur is not excelled in
the world—to visit Chicago and the Niagara Falls
—one feels: “I must see this, or I may have
lived in vain ” From the names of the patrons of
this route, to say nothing of the numbers —which
are great—cne must pronounce the “ Burlington”
the aristocratic route. This walking encyclopedia
of a i ail way agent in San Francisco, T. D. M‘Kay,
has the most flattering letters expressing thanks
from men of rank all over the world, and all
recommending their friends not to bother about
the different rcutes, but to wait their arrival in
San Francisco and place themselves unreservedly
in the hands of Mr. M‘Kay. From what has
come under our own observation, wc endorse the
sentiment. Travellers from Australia should
wait their arrival in ’Frisco before binding them-
selves to a y route.
The reason why Parkes didn’t show up at
the N.S.W. Freetrade banquet and play
the part of Belshazzar was simply this: he
had heard that old Jack Robertson had been going
round in a cab that day, swearing by all the saints
in the calendar that he would administer a sound
tongue-thrashing on the occasion to that political
impostor, Parkes ; that political impostor who,
though he had in his time made many and many
a strong Protectionist speech, now had the im-
pudence to affirm that he had never, never said a
word in favour of such heresy in all his life. Old
Sir John intended to show how his (“ Old Jack’s”)
efforts to institute a thorough freetrade policy in
N.S.W. had been blocked by Parkes and his
crowd, who were ready to sacrifice any political
principle in order that they might jump the
Treasury-benches. That is the reason why Parkes,
who was in excellent form that morning, stayed
away from the banquet.
The N.S.W. Statistical Register for 1886
contains a good many points that deserve notice,
and yet have been left untouched by the Press.
The population of Sydney and suburbs is now
estimated at 332,709, while that of the country
districts is only 669,257, and at the present rate of
progress Sydney bids fair in another 15 years to
hold as much population as all the rest of the
co ony put together. The present state of things,
by which some 330,000 people in the capital live
on only about twice as many in the country, is
unhealthy and abnormal, and the evil is con-
stantly on the increase. In 1866, 3092 Chinese
arrived in the colony, all of whom were sup-
posed to pay poll-tax. The number who
actually did pay, however, amounted to
1284 only ; the rest presumably did the
favourite swindle of buying naturalisation-
papers from returned Chinese at Hongkong,
and thereby came in on the cheap. In 1885, only
1060 paid out of 2929, and the discrepancy goes
back to the date when the tax was first imposed.
The si a* iotics of illegitimacy are also startling if
not instructive In Sydoey two out of every 15
infants born are illegitimate nearly 14 per
cent, of the entire births. In the suburbs of the
capital this table shows an increase of 60 per cent
since 1871; in the country, however, there is no
visible advance. The suburbs show badly in
another respect. Fcr 15 years the death-rate has
been steadi y increasing, and it is now 50 per
cent, more than in 1871, the total being 21 04 per
thousand against < nly 17.06 in the ci'y. In 1872
the city show ed 23.03 against 14 15 in the out-
skirts, but all that is (hanged n w. The country
rate, meanwhile —despi e the lack of luxuries and
sometimes of medical attt ndance—is only 12‘64
per thousand. Wi hr« gaid to children the mor-
tality a'l over V e colony has increased 50 pr r cent.
s ; nce 1871 ! In S. dney itself the advance is hardly
perceptible, but again the unwholesome suburbs
make up the figures, the dea h-rate there having
risen fully 80 per cent. - a circumstance that is a
disgrace to N. s. W seo-c *lled civilisation. We fancy
the d scovery of this a’arming fa ;t is due to Mr.
Tt'-ce, of the A.M.P. Society, and that but for his
exertions it might have remained unnoticed for
some time longer. Almost the only point in which
Sydrey show's badly is the mortali’y among chil-
dren under one year old. the figures being—city,
200.7 deaths per 1000 births; subuibs, 180.4;
country, 101.1. Paobably there is some connection
between the infantine death-rate of the capital
and its preponderance of illegitima'e births—
otherwise these figures are difficult to explain. At
all events, the waste cf child-life all over the colony
is hideous and unaccc untable. Twenty-six years
of assisted immigration addtd only 77,095 to the
population cf N.S. v ~ and in all yrobability as
many biby lives were needlessly sacrificed in the
same ; eriod ; the infants ere allowed to die while
tie c untry pays f< r the importation of adults
from Europe, and foreign paupers fill the gap 3
that are made as Australian children, murdered
by ignorance filth, and neg’ect, sink ty thousands
into the grave.
There are more ways of winning votes
than talking politics till you’re hoarse, and Mr.
“Jack” Want, M.P., knows one. The Coota
mundra Liberal (N.S.W.) relates that when the
ex-Attorney-General was at Bethungra during his
late contest, he visited a sheep-shed to talk poli-
tics to the men, and, taking the shears, “put a
sheep through like an old hand ” This is not at
all surprising, considering that Jack is a lawyer.
When Mrs. Thorogood, of Melbourne,
retired to bed on a recent Choosday night, after
having blown out the gas and suppressed the
smothered “ cheek” of the slavey, she had no idea
that coming events in the shape of a burglar were
already casting their shadow before them. But
when she awoke at 4 a.m. and saw the figure of a
ruthless thief sloping steeply across her bedroom,
she was not at all frightened at the suddenness of
the apparition. She rose calmly from her couch
and hung her burly figure, attired in a single spot-
less garment, on to his coat-tails, and when he
br )ke loose and flung himself in delirious terror
through a window, she had one square bit at that
portion of his anatomy which faces the east when
his visage is turned from the setting sun, and then
she hopped after him. In the yard he knocked
her down and tried to step on her, but she lay on
the flat of her broad back and grabbed a double
handful of his clothes, and though he assailed her
legs with a cudgel, she maintained her grip. Then
he tried the experiment of alternately lifting her
up and dropping her on the pavement, but two
lifts burst him up completely, and when a couple
of gentlemen came along a moment or two later
he surrendered, gasping, and asked to be taken
somewhere where he could be treated for a rush
of blood to the head.
Sydney Roller Coaster.
BELMORE PARK, every Aft ernoon and Evening,
aRE A T SUCCESS. Thousands riding every
day I Greatest scientific novelty of the
age I Car travels up-hill without motive power.
Bring your family, and enjoy yourselves.
BELMORE PARK, Belmore Park. Beautifully
illuminated with Electric Lights; Band Concert
each evening. Polite attendants; iced refresh-
ments. Single ticket. 3d.; or 5 tickets, Is.
R. H. DONNOLLY, Manager,
~|CT EW OPERA HOUSE.
J3I 1 nder the management of Vr- B. N. Jones.
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 19.
Return and Farewell Visit of the popular Irish
Comedian and Versatile Character Actor,
GRATTAN BIGGS.
On the above evening (by arrangement with Mr.
C. M‘Mahon, will be presented the great drama,
THE IRISH DETECTIVE.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, Maroh 15, 1887.
Tenders for public works and
BUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the following PUBLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. Fer full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of whioh is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten
ders are opened, and the name of the successfu
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Erection of Residences for Offi-
cers in charge of Store Creek
and Mumbil, G. W. Railway-
Supply of Sleepers, Great North-
ern Railway
Purchase of Old Boilers, Dredge
Buckets, &c., at Fitzroy
Dock
Erection of Retaining- waT,
Nelson’s Bay Lighthouse
Bridge over Coombing Creek,
road Blayney to Five Is’ands
Supply and Deliveiy of 2voo tons
of Blue Metal at Granville na-
tion
Supply and de ivet y at Bethun-
gra Railway Station of 269 J
Fence Posts and 2000 Fence
Pails
Construction and Supply of two
Equilibrium Ball Valves,&c. —
Water Supply, Newcastle
Erection of Biidge over Piora
Creek, Road Casino to Tabu-
lam
Alterations and Addi ions Po*t
and Teh g- aph Office, Narrabri
Erection oi signal Staff, Cape St.
George Lighthouse
Erection of l imber Bridge over
Namoi River at v\ ee Vv aa
Taking down and re-build : Dg
Macquarie street front Free
Public Library
Bridge over Stony Creek, road
Tumberumba to WelartgaDg
Bridge over Goodman Creek,
road Mud gee to Cobiorah
Bridge over 1 roughton Mill
Creek (exclusive of supply of
ironwork) read Gerringong to
Broughton Creek
Bridge er Broughton Mill
Cieek, supply of ironwork
Erection of Residence for Officer
in charge at Ccolabah, G. W
Railway
Construction and Completion of
Suok-fence and Drain at the
University Paddrcks.Cau per-
down
Alterations to Pyrmont Bridge
Bridge over Cccketgedong
Creek, Road Deniliquin to
Urana
Bridge over Forest Creek, on
Road Deniliquin to Balranald
Supply of Locomotive Engines
(passenger and goods).
Daws to whlo v
Tenders
can be received
at this office
Tuesday,
March 22,
at 11 o'clock.
Tuesday,
March 29,
at 11 o'clock
Tuesday,
April 5,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
April 12,
at 11 o clock.
JOHN SUTHERLAND.
THE GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL,
CHAHLOTTE PLACE AND GEOBGE-STREET.
K. HAILEY’S
1 DOZEN OABE
OF ASSORTED
mm, SPIRITS, and MALT LIQUORS,
DELIVERED ANY PART OF CITY FREE.
Carnage free by Rail or Steamer. Order the ldoz cage as
you please fro a the list of low prices as under, viz
Robertson's, Walker or Blend Scotch Whiskies 4s
Dunville's Shamrock and Burke's XXX Irish do. 4s.
Brian Born Whieky
Henne sy's * Cognac
„ *** 6s.
Square Gin
Jamaica Rum
Kea Heart do.
Fla ks Brandy and Whiskies .. .. Is. 6d. & 2s. 6d.
English Ales and Stout, best brands Is. or 11s 6d. per dozen
Port Wine, for invalids .. .. 6s.
Port Wine and Sherry from .. .. .. 2e.
Best brands Whisky or Brandy from 20s. per gallon.
£3 CASE ALSO A SPECIALITY.
Marks's Ale, Porter, and Laoer Beer.
Certificates of merit of the first-class and silver medal
awarded at Ihe Calcutta Exhibition, and patronised by his
Excellency the Govenor’s houseeold, 6d. per bottle. All
first-class Goods. One trial will prove the fact. Bottle De-
partment of the GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL, Corner
George.street and Charlotte-place. Orders by post solicited.
Mrs Hat ney attends personally on lady patrons.


OT WORTH A TEAR.
My sweet, they say that love is life,
And loveless lives are worse than death;
And hearts that love will live for aye,
Defying failing mortal breath.
Love lives for ever, and no change
Can blight the blossom in the heart;
No seas that roll, no hills that rise,
Can rend two loving souls apart.
' True hearts love always, and they drink
Eternal youth from deathless springs ;
The flight of days, the change of clime,
Into their lives no winter brings.
Yes, they love always, and they drink
(What some can’t drink's not worth a tear)
They drink -why, what else would they drink
But Clausen’s Champagne Lager Beer 1
j | OME FOR HONORS.
There is many a good tune to be got out of an
old Addle, and many a wise notion out of an old
song. The statement about the fiddle may b i left
to musical and other critics to decide, but about
the song there is no doubt. In Europe at the
present moment, something like twelve millions
of men, armed with
REPEATING RIFLES,
a variety of religious sentiments, dynamite shells,
melanite bombs and a lot of other pomps and
vanitie > of this world, are getting ready for the
great
INTERNATIONAL FIREWORKS JUBILEE,
the celebration of which appears to be inevitable.
And the situation is a forcible reminder of the
old song, in which the fair Jeanette laments the
necessity for her best young man going away to
fight about some; hing in which he had no personal
interest, beyond the possible acquisition of a
beautiful cockade and an utter forgetfulness of her
many charms. And with an amount of wisdom
far beyond her age and the requirements of
domestic service, she plaintively sings :
Oh ! If I were Queen of France,
Or, still better, Pope of Rome,
I d have no figh'ing men abroad,
No weeping maids at home.
All the world should be at peace,
And if kings must show their might,
I’d have those who make the quarrels
Be the only ones to fight.
Yet in spite of present earthquakes and probable
wars,
THE REPRESENTATIVE AUSTRALIAN
crams his little grip-sack with emu eggs and starts
for the scene of the festivities without a thought
or a tear for all he leaves behind him. He frets
not about the deficit, for his faith is in Parkes j
he trembles not for the good government of , his
colonial home, for he leaves a two-thirds majority
on paper in favor of freetrade. He knows that
his
WIVES AND FAMILIES
who lives across the water will be safe, because
the traffic on the bosom of his beautiful harbor is
regulated by the wisdom and sagacity of the Syd.
ney Marine Board, the members of which are
weaving their names into the history of the colony
and the hearts of the pespie. As monuments of
bnlli ant intelligence, official lucidity and ailor-
like decision in the performance of their duties ;
in analysing wrecks and collisions, and in giving
judgments such as Solomon might have wondered
at, he knows they appropriate
THE WORLD’S CONFECTIONERY.
But more than all this, he knows that go where
he may he will never bs deprived of his favorite
drink. As the guest of the Queen or the com.
panion of the Czar, secluded by set sickness in his
own cabin, or seated at a poker party in his club,
he has but to give it a name and be at once re'
vived, invigorated, and practically boosted up in
to the seventh heaven by that truly excellent
beverage so dear to the hearts and palates of all
Australians,
CLAUSENS NEW YORK CHAMPAGNE
LAGER BEER.
He knows, too, that Salisbury, Bismarck, Church
hill, King George of Tonga, Parnell, Barnum,
President Cleveland, Peter the Great, John the
Baptist. “Tummy,” John isorton. Bob Ingersoll,
the Battenbergs, and thousands of other crowned
and uncrowned heads all take it, and invariably
reply to the we,l-known query with
CLAUSENS NEW YORK CHAMPAGNE
LAGER BEER.
Every dog has his day, but only the best brands
find buyers. The world’s choice of beers is the
six-barrelled C.N.Y.C.L.B. It is the only one not
found wanting in one or other of the attributes of
a first-class beer. It is peace, Perfection, and
LINGERING, LASTING HAPPINESS.
FOR BRIGHTNESS AND PURITY
DRINK CLAUSEN’S LAGER BEER
FOR FREEDOM FROM SEDIMENT
DRINK CLiUSEN’S LAGER BEER
FOR DELICACY OF FLAVOR
DRINK CLAUSE v’S LAGER BEER
FOR A NUTRIIIOU3 STIMULANT
DRINK CLAUSEN’S LAGER BEER
FOR A REFRESHING BEVER 4.GE
DRINK CLYUSBN’S LS.GER BEER
FOR HEALTH, HAPPINESS. AND
CONTENTMENT,
DRINK CLAUSEN’S LAGER BEER
Kept on ICE by all the principal Hotels in the
colonies. Call for it and take no other.
Don’t be persuaded any other is as good just
because Clausen’s N. Y. Champagne Lager don’t
happen to be at hand, or because a bottle of some
other brand is open.
Agents for New South Wales —
WALKER, LEMON, and CO.,
st>, Margaret-street,
The D.T. (Melbourne) has struck upon
another cesspool in its issue of the 10th inst. As
the Campbell case is finished, thi3 time it is the
highly moral state of tbiDgs in the low hotels and
crimping establishments at Sandridge that is
gloated over. Its chief sermon-reporter had been
told oft to gather the filth into affidavits by the
lost ones, and t he religious readers were feasted on
indecency on the day in question. The D.T.
strongly (if not sincerely) applauded Justice Webb
for stopping the report of the Weeding-Rose case.
Is it not just as bad to search out for slum slush
and then to publish it ?
CAUSE AND EFFECT
DISAPPOINTED CONSTANT READER: “WHAT'S THIS? WHAT’S THIS? NOT A
SINGLE CASE OF ACCIDENTAL POISONING IN THE PAPER TO-DAY! WHAT-
EVER CAN IT MEAN!
Reads farther on—The pharmacists of Sydney held their second annual gathering yesterday at
the enviably-situated pleasure grounds of Sandringham.”
C. R.: “I SEE.”
FRAUDS ON THE INCREASE ! !
GOVERNMENT STATISTICS ! ! ! !
THEY CAN’T BE DOUBTED ! ! ! !
That frauds gigantic an on the increase we
must unfortunately admit, but who will dispute
the right of competition ? V'e meet it in every
profession and trade ; therefore it is incumbant,
in these times of depravity, on those who are
misrepresented by opposition parties to place
themselves on a right looting in the eyes of the
great public. The public is the master ; it rules,
makes and breaks, accepts and ignores. The
public has given its brand, its palm and its world-
wide envied patronage to Anheuser St. Louis
Lager Beer. The weak and puny competitor
does anything to attain his object; he stops at
nothing. But ask yourself ‘ ‘ Can Official Govern-
ment figures te doubted ? ” and you will answer
“Hardly.” Having thus replied we will place
before you THE OFFICIAL FIGURES of the
United States of America Treasury Department,
which gives the sales of the 12 largest breweries
from May 1, 1885, to May 1, 1886, andjthe number
of barrels (Lager Beer proper) on hand May 1,
1886. The official statement is as follows
Solti Iron* : Ou hand,
May 1, *B5 to May 1,
May 1, 1886.! 1886.
1 Anheurer Bus h Brewing As-
80’ iation, St. Louis
2. Jos. Schultz Brewing Com-
pany, Milwaukee
. (ieorge Fhret, New York .
Empire Brewing Company,
Phil. Be.-t, proprietor, Mil-
waukee ..
Berg tr a«d Engel Brewing
Company, Ph ladelphia
. Beadleston and Worz A 1 and
Lager, New Yo k
•Tac Kuppert, Ntw York
. Frank Jones, New York, A>e
and Porter
C. Seipo B ewingCo.,Chicago
C. inocrlia Biewing Co.,
Cincinnati
Wm. J. Letup, St. Louis
V. Blatz, Milwaukee ..
Is that not conclusive proof that the great, the
balmy St Louis Lager—the strength giving and
the PUREST BEER in the wide world—is what
we have repeatedly stated, the most consumed of
all Lager Beers? Glance again at those stubborn
“ Do you want a good line of prime maize,’
asked a commission agent of a man in a Sydney
produce store. “Sure I’m not the man of the
shop, it’s himself that’s away,” was the explicit
reply from the foreigner seated on a bag of bran.
M’Hugh, a man alleged to have personated
in Bathurst and Orange, is summoned for both
courts, and the trouble is Which dock he shall first
honour. An Irishman seldom studies the conveni-
ence of the government, and M’Hugh is no excep-
tion.
figures. They tell the tale. They send your
humbug to the rightabout and brand Anheuser
St. Louis Lager Beer the foremost. Banish spirits
to Hades; for unless of the very best quality
they eat on the system, destroy the nerve tissue
and paralyse, whereas the creamy, gentle St
1 ouis, as it sparkles on the tongue and palate,
acts as a new life-giver, strengthening the coats
cf the stomach, causing the sluggish liver to be-
come at once active. St. Louis par excellence 1
St. Louis, the Monarch of Lager Beers! 1 Vide
Government Statistics !!!
SOLD BY ALL THE WINE AND SPIRIT
MERCHANTS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA.*
Diarrhcea Dysentery, and Colic. —lt ought
to he more generally known throughout N.S.W.
that Freeman’s Original and Genuine Chlorodyne
is a specific for these prevalent Colonial Maladies.
Many years ago Freeman’s Chlorodyne acquired
a very high reputation for arresting and curing
these diseases. It is easy to understand, there-
fore, that Freeman’s Chlorodyne is now regarded
by the Colonists as a household remedy. The
directions on each bottle are so clear that the most
inexperienced men can administer it with perfect
confidence. Freeman’s Chlorodyne, if given when
the earliest symptoms of these maladies manifest
themselves, at once arrests their further progress.
Insist upon having “Freeman’s” only. Trade
marr, an Elephant.—obtainable from all chemists
and stoieKeepers."
IT IS NO WONDER
That so many people sink into untimely graves when we
contider how they neglect their health. They have a dis-
ordered liver, deranged bowels, constitution, piles, or
diseased kidneys, but th y let it go and think they ” will get
over it." It grows worse, other and more serious complica-
tions follow, aud soon it is to > late to save them. If such
people would take Dr. Bell’s Bitters, it would preserve their
lives. It acts upon the most important organs, purifying the
blood and cleansing the system, removes and prevents these
disorders, and promotes health.
Travellers, when arriving in Sydney, know not where to
seea accommodation, the knowing ones tell the cabman to
drive direct to the Great Northern Hotel, George-3ireet and
Charlott. -place, where they find comfortaole accommodation
and the best meals supplied by any hotel in Sydney. The
shilling luncheon theie is the talk of the town.
Cockroaches. Bugs, and all other insects
destroyed by Mitchell’s Insect powder. 6d., Is.,
Is. 6d. Rigney, 141 King-street.*
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF SPRING GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prioes.
STOP RIGHT HERE I
JOY FOR EVER !
CONSIDER THIS.
An Autophone costs but 30s. and is a joy for ever
The Autophone is a wonderful little instrument
which, while it weighs less than three pounds has
the lungs of a full sized parlor organ, and executes
its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect. It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three
keys, and all the par ts of most difficult music. On
it a child can correctly play, without instruction,
any of its music, wmch at present consists.of ever
300 selections from hymns, oratorios, operas,
waltzes, polkas, marches, popular songs, &c. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, but also has wonderful power in exe-
cuting very lively pieces. *3T It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card holder for convenience
in singing. It is entirely well adapted for country
churches, Sunday schools, the family circle, and
also for dancing. The music is compact, and far
cheaper than that which is made for any organette.
The Autophone is like every other good thing, the
longer you have it the better you like it, and as
new music is being published every week it has an
endless fund of amusement in it.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Three times given in with each instrument.
Additional tunes per last mail. Send for Cata-
logue. Extra music sent on receipt of price.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand :
ORIENTAL GOLD CO., No. 12 POMEROY
CHAMBERS, CASTLEREAGH-ST., SYDNEY.
WATCHES.
The Elgin National Watch Co.’s Watches are
the best in the world. Read this :
“ Elgin National Watch Co., Chicago,
“ Gentlemen, —It gives me pleasure to state
that the performance of the Watch manufactured
by you, and marked ‘ B. W. Raymond No. 19,201,’
which I have carried in my pocket for a period of
six months, surpasses in excellence that of any o.
the fine watches I have hitherto tested. It main-
tains its rate even better than a fine box chrono-
meter by Negus, belonging to this observatory.
I have intended, when I shall have leisure, to
make a complete test of the isochronism of the
balance for poise and temperature. So far as I
can judge by the performance of the watch, these
adjustments appear to be nearly perfect.
“ Permit me to congratulate you upon the
successful manufacture of watches which are
equal in performance to the pocket chronometers
by Jurgensen, Fordsham, and other celebrated
European makers.
“JAMES C. WATSON,
“Astronomer,
“ Observatory, Ann Arber.
January 28, 1870.”
Remember each and every watch manufactured
by The Elgin Watch Company is a Patent Lever
with compensating-balance. No horizontal or other
inferior movements.
If three pounds is more than you can afford we
meet you by reducing the price of the case. We
can’t and won’t sell you a debased movement.
The Elgin Company does not make such things.
Noth. The Elgin Watch Company states. Ore
silver is a new white metal, manufactured and
controlled by ourselves exclusively. These cases
are to all appearance and in wearing qualities the
equal of silver.
Hunting case, ore silver, stem winding
patent lever, with compensating
balance, jewelled in 7 holes
Do. do. (key winder)
Elgin National Watch Co.’s Keywinding
Patent Lever, in solid silver patent
dust-band case, with compensating
balance, patent pinion, 7 fine jewels,
open face
Same Watch in hunting case
Stem-winding (Keyless) Elgin N. W.
Co.’s compensating-balance, patent-
lever, open crystal face, in solid
silver dust-band case, with 11 fine
ruby jeweL, pneut pinion, &c. ...
Same Watch, in hunting-case
Ladies superb gold lever watch mag-
nificently engraved hunting case ex-
quisite jewelled movement. No better
in the world
We have not space here for further detailed
quotations. We can, however, offer silver-cased
watches at ascending prices up to the finest in the
world at £4O 0 0
OR FOR A FEW SHILLINGS
ORIENTAL GOLD JEWELLERY.
£2 10
£2 0
£3 0
£3 10
£3 5
3 15
£lO 0 0
ORIENTAL
is the latest trismpi of
Science. It is n notlo
GOLD
alloy, possessing tie enact lustre, ieaut7
and endurance of sterling Sold. A legi-
timato use has teen found for this nohle metal, hy
working it into Jewellery of the most exquisite de-
signs. The Oriental Gold Co,,
has
large consignments cf these lovely goods, which they
sell at a fraction of the cost of Sterling Gold Jewellery.
No one can detect the difference. Send for &.
Priced Catalogue, or for ene of the fol-
lowing samples, all of Oriental Sold —
Brooches,Ss.; Jewelled (Parisian
Brilliant.) Brooch, 7s. 6d.; Gent’s
Albert, 73. 6d.; Parr Earrings,
Plain 55., Jewel led, 7s. 6d.; Locket
ss.,Jewelled, lOs.; Ladies’Alberts
15s. P. 0.0. payable Oriental Gold
Co.
(ggp”l¥e send theseon approval. If they don’t
please, return uninjured by the First
It ail, and >ve repay the cash, less postage.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
12 POMEROY CHAMBERS,
OASTLEREAGH STREET.
Paroels sent anywhere by post.


A.A.DE BNEY 8, C«
"4 13 HUNTER STREET,SYDNEY.
0 ,
SHIRT makers:
fs
/>'M/ <=>
ifcifa-''*
few
df
C 0.,
Robert butcher &
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Town Ball, Sydney.
W Country Orders receive prompt attention.'
DR. O’CONNELL has Removed trcm his old
quarters, Opposite, and has been compelled
owing to his health and age to alter his hours of
consultation to 10 am. till '2.31 p m. daily,
Saturdays, 10 a.m. ti 1 noon ; no consu’tation on
Sundays or holidays. Dr. O’Connell needs no
advertising, as all of his patients who have con-
sulted him, and have been cured of lost vigour,
health, and vitality, will make it known to their
friends, who can write and be cured.
Address
Du J. O’CONNELL,
67 Castt.erf.agh Street,
Sydney.
A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL,
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, if you miss Foley’s you
HAVE NOT SEEN THE CITY
MARSHALL'S
T(JNIC NERVINE!
Trade Mark-“TONIC NERVINE.”
Marshalls tonic nervine
Promotes Appetite.
Improves. Digestion.
Cure 3 Nervous Debility-
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers—Price t/6.
Prepared only by
MARSHALL BROTHERS,
Sydney, N.S.W. ; London, England,
CrIARDS
M.R.C.S,, England.
~IfVE3IREd to publicly announce that he has
|. * permanently established himself in Sydney,
and may in future be consulted at his rooms, No.
7 Bering Scuket, FREE OF CHARGE, by that
increasingly large class of sufferers whose nervous
complaints can only be competently dealt with by
an experienced specialist. I Cure every case un-
dertaken. When I say I cure. Ido not merely
stop them for a time and then have them return
again, I mean a radical cure. I have made those
ailments, which .are the result of negligence, a
life-long study, and can safely warrant a cure
after personal consultation. Carelessness in many
cases has brought about a state of w-eakness that
has reduced the general system so much as to .in-
duce almost every other disease, and the real
cause of this searely ever being suspected, people
have been doctored for everything but the right
one. Notwithstanding the many valuable remedies
that medical science has produced for the relief of
this class of patients, none cf the ordinary modf s
of treatment effect a cure. During my extensive
hospital and private practice in England, I have
discovered new and concentrated remedies, and
with the use of my extensive Galvanic Appliances,
am in a position to guarantee a cure in every case
undertaken. Consultation costs nothing, and I
will tell you at once whether your case is curable
or not.
DR. M.RC.S, England,
7 SPRING STREET (off Pitt-st, Sydney.
Dr. BELL’S BITTERS
NEVER KNOWN TO FAIL.
It CURES where all other MEDICINES FAIL, as It
acts DIRECTLY and AT ONCE on the KIDNEYS,
LIVER and BOWELS, restoring them to a healthy
action. It is a safe, sure, and speedy cure, and hun-
dreds have been cured by it, when Physicians and
frieuds had given them up to die.
IT IS BOTH A SAFE CORE AND A SPECIFIC.
It cures all Diseases of the Kidneys, Liver, Bladder,
and Urinary Organs, Dropsy, Gravel, Diabetes,
Bright’s Disease, Nervous Diseases, Excesses, Female
Weaknesses, Jaundice, Biliousness, Headache,!Sour
Stomach, Dyspepsia, Constipation, Piles, Pains m the
Back, Loins, or Side, Retention or Non-retention ol
Urine 'HEED THE WARNING.
By not heeding the warnings of Nature, many persons
are laid up on a bed of sickness and suffering for weeks,
months, or years. There is hardly a disease that
attacks the system which is not preceded by symptoms
Let these symptoms be attended to and the disease
will be nipped iu the bud. Note the following.
/ Pain m Small of Back, Pam in
KIDNEY
DISEASE
Loins, Flushes of Heat and Chills,
with Disordered Stomach, Bowels,
Headache, Weakness, &c. In fact.
Kidney Complaint appears in so
many different ways, it is im-
possible to name them all.
Dr. Bell’s Bitters has cured some
of the most stubborn forms of
Kidney Disease ; in fact, has never
used without good effect.
DYSPEPSIA
/ Variable Appetite, Faint Gnawing
{ Feeling at Pit ot Stomach,Bad Taste
I in the Mouth, Feeling of Weight and
J Wind in the Stomach, Bad Breath,
\ Headache, and Constipation. Dr.
I Bell’s Bitters will positively relieve
I any of above symptoms, and cure
\Dyspepsia.
Any one of the above symptoms is not sufficient to
cause any alarm, and many persons do not pay any
attention to it until the symptoms multiply, and they
discover disease has made great inroads, and possibly
firmly established itself in the system.
Note. —Any poor Person, or the manager of RUJ
Hospital, Asylum, or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously, upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
Bell’s Bitter©
Manufacturing Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND & AUSTRALIA.
BUTCHER, FEHON& CO., Sydney,
AGENTS FOR
Now South 'Wales & Queensland.
sdf
r
MANUFACTURERS
i IMPORTERS of
HATS CAPSk
438 CeTrCE ST
SYDNEY
fffloositl LasseCCtra
.
A
#0
/Er >*° v>*^
C*s
\5'P
d
fd
fd
sd
s
pmm
[y
LLAS
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frame* re-
covered, and your
Parasola re-lined and made equal
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Street*
Parasol* made to matoh oo*
lumet Renairi neatly
A L.
TfIKATRK ROY
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove
Lessee, Mr. Sam Lazar.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVE'WG,
LUCIA D 1 LAMMEEMO'R
FRIDAY, ROBBRTO DEVFREI X.
Saturday, lucia i i iammermoor.
Prices-Di ess Circle 7s. Bd.: Orchestra Stalls.
35,; Stalls, Is ; Eamiiy C.rcle. 2s
Alhambra music hali,
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp.
SURPRISING SUCCESS
SURPRISING SUCCESS
EACH NIGHT. EACH NIGHT.
The great HOSE A EASTON, Banjoist and
Comic Artist, appears in this hall, in coniunction
■with Messrs. JOHNNY COWAN, SAM KEENAN,
the great Soprano Miss BEATRICE JaMES, and.
the other members of the company, numbering
30 Artists.
Popular Prices : Orchestra Chairs, 2s ; Stalls,
Is; Balcony, 6d.
Grand Sacred and Classical Concert every
SUNDAY EVENING, at 7.30.
HEALTH IS WEALTH.
EATME
Dr. E. C. West's Nerve and Brain Treatment, a
guaranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions, Fits,
Nervous Neuralgia, Headache, Nervous Prostration, caused by
the use of alcohol or tobacco, Wakefulness, Mental Depression,
Softening of the Brain resulting in insanity and leading to
misery, decay, and death, Premature Old Age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain, or over-indulgence. Each box
contains one month’s treatment. ss. a box, or six boxes for
255., sent by mail prepaid on receipt of price. We Guar-
antee six boxes to cure any case. With each order xe-
ceived by us for six boxes, accompanied with 255., we will
send the purchaser our written guarantee to refund the
money if the treatment does not effect a cure. Guarantees
issued only by
JOHN 0. WEST and CO.,
65 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Circular sent free on application.
£lOO Reward!
We will pay the above reward for any case of liver com
plaint, dyspepsia, sick headache indigestion, constipation or
costiveness, we cannot cure with W est"s V egetable Liver
Pills, when the directions are strictly complied with. They
are purely vegetable, and never fail to give satisfaction.
Large boxes containing 30 sugar-coated pills Is For sale by
all druggists. Beware of counterfeits and imitations. The
genuine manufactured only by
JOHN 0. WEST & 00.,
65 Mab.ket-stk.eet Sydney, N.S.W.
Sent Prepaid by post on receipt of la. per box in stamp*.
“W" w w
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMENT.
Infallible remedy for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
Gout, Sprains, Cuts, Burns, Scalds, Bruises, Headache,
Mumps, Hip Disease, White Swelling, Felons, Chilblains
Whitlows, Chapped Hands, Frozen Feet, Bites of Insette,
Sore Throat and all diseases requiring external application.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers.
Price Is, and 2b. per Bottle.
JOHN C. WEST & CO., Sole Proprietors.
SYDNEY, CHICAGO and
TORONTO.
GEORGE STREET
'SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OFALLTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And *6 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
EQUITABLE CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETY, Limited.
89 COLLINS STREET E., MELBOURNE.
Direct Importers, Merchants and Manufacturers.
Every Household and Personal Requirement under One Roof.
Branches —Chapel-st., Prahran ; Bruns wick-Bt., Fitzroy ; Bay-st, North Brighton; Dundas-pl., S.
Melbourne ; Burwood-rd., Hawthorn ; Nicholson-st., Footscray.
London Office —20 & 22 COLEMAN ST., E.
WRITE TO THE SECRETARY FOR MONTHLY CIRCULAR, AND REDUCE HOUSEHOLD
EXPENSES 30 PER CENT.
®OLPHO WOLFE
SON
yi'<Z'Aa?/av6z xr/ we/czfficeX}/'
**
Ctp oy^&wfr/ie'.
ILLUSTRATION (In refinoed sice) H £1 Order to b« found In tha
“LAKGE BOTTLES" OF WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
j&Y, NEWTON, & LAMB,
FURNITURE si it PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
iND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and O'CONNELL STREETS.
'
jf*o
guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compasp
C' >esr,e Pedal, brll ant
to a, In handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
oa h ooly.
Bradie;, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMIORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’CocJ
nell-street.
ś
Austrian chairs
in Great VARIETY
BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB,
Spring and O’Connell
streets.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment, just opened, many quite new
designs.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, New.
ton, and Lamb.
Full suites for dining-room.—side :
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON. TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, couch, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, ail
to match.
D
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.(
ALNUT TELESCOPE DINING TABLES
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
w
ds
ICS
CHESTS,
all sizes.
From 475,
Bradley,
Newton.
and
Lamb.
ds
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
IyrOVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
la SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O'Connell-street.
WALL-MIRRORS and BRACKETS, novelties
in Plush and Velvets, and in all Woods,
from ss. 6d. each.
Elegant Venetian mirrors, richly
enamelled, in colours. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
mmw
Drawing room cabi'
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Eurwituhb Warkpodrbmkn
Importers of Hlgh-ait
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets
Drawing-room furniture.— I The late
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection ia
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMP,
Manufacturers, Spring and O’Connell streets.
m
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS. —Handsome,
fashionable designs in black and gold, with
side shelves ; also, in oak and walnut wood, at
all prices. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and OiConnell
streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in
any material.
d
BEDSTEADS, all sizes
Nickel-plated and Black
and. Brass. Great variety.
Bedding,—All descriptions at
lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTO>', ana'
LAMB,
Importers, i
O'Gannell and Spring Stri ets.
sd
SPRING JSdATTRASSh H
IO Woven Wire, be*
make; also, Spiral Sprinj-.
Price, from Us. each.
BRADLEY, NKWTGN Mid LAMB.


The Bletsed Trinity of Milburn Creek.


PEE* TO)
SALICYU
& exquisite
J^vfocwa
By TH£ proprietor.
iff
V 3 ID
' S3HV7dOyJ
DLLnsnf/\/sM boj
- C -^S~ *7\C 'l^'^
MISVd HlOOl
;B,MELHUISH ", Pharmaceutical Chemist!
134 William Sr, SYDNE '
00 TS
00TS
T. WILLIAMS & CO.,
IMPORTERS OP
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Also Manufacturers of
The Finest Quality oe Goods in the above Lines.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
S3OH
S3OH
£5O
WARNING!
nr,d' 11 tterly worthless imitation of that well-known preparation,
USE’S INSECTICIDE, is now being offered for sale, and
u -g. r ° L 1 deceive the unwary, the word Kruse’s is rendered
tio *** ~ e S 011 ou^s^e wrapper. The public are hereby cau-
this imposture, and are advised that FIFTY
de:
r 7
REWARD will be paid to anyone giving such evi-
e will lead to the conviction o± the makers and vendors of
s s purious article
be
thi,
The genuine KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
KRUSE’S
white directions
e distinguished from the imitation,
late] _ has a blue wrapper and large whi
Pro band bearing the words “ Kruse’s Insecticide, sole
Pnetors, FELTON, GRIMWADE, & CO., Melbourne.”
ejj b IIDSE s Insecticide may be had of all wholesale and retail
s ’ anc l vendors of proprietary and patent medicines.
s
-r
h
-ro
■ v Special Appoint**^
fd
f
f p\WCE OF
Qus b pS 9 4^<s.
H,s ROYAL
,OSGa GOULET CHAMPAGNE.
& ELLES, 54 M argaret-street, Agents for New South Wales.
SENRY LANCASTER,
C__)
""tr-,
CAR
[lllllllll
No>
HOT VMTER
HU IN MilllUMlin
IeYLINDERI
MIN®
PAN
Ei*
t ROUch
c An
WOKEN
FOR MANY HEARS
engaged, in the
Leading Workshops
of England,
Lately 5 years with
Hudson Bros,,
Manufacturer of
WROUGHT IRON
TANKS & CISTERNS,
of any size or shape,
for squatters, wool-
washers, and station-
owners.
Horse and Cattle
Troughs,
of every description,
wrought-iron pipes, s. s.
funnels, ventilators,
See., See.
Estimates cheerfully given.
REDUCED PRICE LISTS FURNIBHEDJ3N APPLICATION.
GEORGE STREET, WEST, near Railway Station.
Fleur! Flour!
J J OK FLOUR MILLS,
ST., SYDNEY.
u v^ e at i h ! te s, Fine Seconds Floni,
Mh-ow ’ c °nes, Bran and Pol-
a^i l! t] be i? P* 1 hand. All made
*at th P f ry wheat procurable,
e lo west prices.
n, (laho R I L
the Detective Force),
tn Bu^l,^ isslng Friends, and General
.o nov.r s9ABency ° fflce >
ARCA DE, SYDNEY.
SihS* l K kraoe<5 ’ and all kinds of
K oth H ana ; ® klku ted Evidence obtained in
$ S> £?>«• Cot Ceud i ary « a «», for the legal pro-
a certificates, of birth,
£
!,Sii k(l estab'Uif'j ® outkl Wales, Victoria, and
** a IKj tf ’3iti 0Q r*™** agencies m all parts of the
, *tricta." r °° U( l u rt all inquiries with caution
to an secresy, and to faithfully and
entrusted to h care.
O* RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOB INF ANTS ANU INVALIDS
Has au enormous sale in England
•&sudl is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get* supply
as every wise mother will certainly
<pt- use it.
LR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
df
The only place where
pipes are satisfactorily
repaired.
SUPPORT Colonial Industry! Buy your Pipe
at S. ROSENTHAL, l Little Collins
Street, East (opposite Colonial Bank.
Manufacturer of real Meerschaum and Briar
Pipes, wholesale aßd retail.
d
jr
ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
AND ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
_ PRE-PAREJ3 ONLY BY (VY".
Thomas Ingham.T
Q- C K HAM^yyysL^|
)
i
ECORNILLON & CO M Wine and Spirit
• Merchants, 22 Bridge street, Sydney,
Hare on Sale —
Maokies & Co. celebrated Whiskio
E. Remy Martin & Co.’s Centaur Brandy, in
bulk and cases
Vve. Martin and Fils Squirrel Brandy
Ca. Vincola del norte de Espana, Rioja Clarets,
Port, &o.
The unequalled A.V.H. Gin, fco., &o.
MASON BROTHERS,
nrais
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE ' BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
.« «<ORIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
„. T. GAYEN'S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS'
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
HIGH-CLASS PHOTOGRAPHY.
Messrs. CHARLEMONT & Co.
BBG to thank their numerous clients for the
liberal patronage shown to them.
Their PHOTOGRAPHS receive the highest
praise, and are acknowledged to be beautiful and
artistic. Inspection is invited to the choice col-
lection of Portraiture now on exhibition in the
vestibule leading to their Studios in the Royal
Arcade.
MR. THOMAS CLEAVE,
who. has had the honour of Photographing Her
Majesty Queen Victoria, T.R.H. Prince and
Princess of Wales, Prince Imperial, &c., &c., will
pessonally photograph eaeh sitter.
Messrs. C. and Co. respectfully ask that ladies
desirous of sitting should make appointments in
the early part of the day.
GROSVENOR GALLERIES,
Royal Arcade.
Prices: (.It V., 165.; Cabinets, 30s. per dozen.
C. H. SMITH & SON,
Manufacturers and Importers
or
HATS and CAPS,
302 GEORGE STREET,
3 Doors South of Hunter-street.
fd
OBTAIN K
1 CIA*
! 1
> ! V
I3TH£ BEST IHIftE WORLD
RONE OTHER BUT '
WAUO H S
j- _ ■ ’ ' ? J i «'.l !• • ■ • % ~
- *- 0.:.A.
M AMUf A AUKS CflAIKCft
Avon it
MityAJl Cr#cMMalstßnkc«p«rt
RUSTON PROCTOR & CO.’S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
“ TRIUMPH ” THRASHING MACHINES,
Simon’s Roller System or Flour Millins,
Sole Agents s
E. C. ELLIOTT & CO,.
647 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MERCANTILE BANK OP SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 1869),
Paid-up Capital,£3oo,ooo. Reserve Fund, £160,0001
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G.. Chairman,
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.O.
C. Rolleston, Eeq., C.M.C.
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
B*or*tajrt
Hector Allen.
B-Ranches : Haymarket, Pyrmont, Kedfem, Gosford, Nya
gan, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St Leonard’*, Newcastle
and Brisbane.
London Branch : 168 Leadenhall-street.
London Bankers The National Provincial Bank ol
England.
mr THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
, Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £3O in the Savings Bank
Branch. Payable on demand. Offices, 4 Park-sb,
J.v. w a RHMAM, Manager-
a
3
m
Wm
y.
«:
Vo 7//-
(r
■Si-,
'>v
Z?S
fM,
sap
Wk
wM
Neat, Compact, and admirably adapted for practical use, are the
LADIES' CAMERAS,
which are now becoming so popular.
They are beautifully made, and perfect in every respect; and they leave little to be wondered at
is contemplating the rapid strides made by photography of late.in the public favour.
When the preparation of plates made it a dirty, messy, and expensive amusement, it was eft
almost entirely to the men; now, with the aid of these attractive little instruments, their sisters, their
cousins, and their aunts are, in many cases, more than a match for them.
LICHTNER AND CO.,
24 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
AND 37 COLLINS STREET EAST, MELBOURNE,
have j ust opened a reoent shipment carrying all the latest improvements.
SPECIAL LOW QUOTATIONS TO DEALERS.
Catalogues post free on application.
“BOOKS.” Any Book You Want. “BOOKS.”
ANGUS &“ ROBERTSON.
in HAMLET STREET, SVtt.Vtl.
Large stacsi of new ana second’hand Books. Price of any book on application, JBooks seat a -
maH to any part of Australia,


ALLAY A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &o.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing, Plumbing,
. Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH,” “VALVE,” and “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM" WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters,
Warmers, «ftc.
BON ACCORD WORKS, _ B~AND~9 MACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Price on Application,
WOOD WORKING AND SAW MILL •,MACHINERY
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Are SOLE AGENTS for
J. -A~ <s z> Co., Ci3o.cl3o.ra.atl
And carry a Large Stock of their Celebrated Machines. 2
EVERY REQUISITE FOR WOOD WORKING AND SAW-MILLING IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogues and Prices. v
Offices and Stores: 17 PITT STREET, Circular Quay, Sydney
1887. PRIITCE OUT WALES HOTEL. 1887.
IMPORTER OE WINES & SPIRITS,
In order to meet the demand for Increased Accommodation, and to ensure the prompt despatch of all
Orders entrusted to him, has completed further Extensive Additions to his Wholesale and Retail
Wine and Spirit Stores, and having made large purchases of the best brands of WINES, SPIRITS,
BEERS, &c., is now in a better position than ever to cope with the rapid growth of this branch of his
business.
COUNTRY ORDERS carefully packed in strong secure cases, by a thoroughly efficient staff of
packers, for carriage by Railway, Coach, or Steamer, and delivered free of charge at Redfem Station,
or any Wharf in the City.
The FAMOUS £3 CASES of Assorted WINES and SPIRITS, containing the following
8 Bottlea BRAN D ¥ 3 Bottles WHISKY I Bottles LOWNDES' RUM
1 Bottle JAMAICA RUM I Bottle WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS! 1 Bottle OLD TOM
1 Bottle PORT WINE 1 Bottle SHERRY WINE
Total 18.
The articles contained in P.R.L’s assorted cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. Securely packed and forwarded carriage
free by rail or steamer. To prevent delay, please make Post-office Orders payable at the Haymarket
P.O. Price Lists post free on application. Spepial reductions to purchasers of Cases of Wines and
Spirits and Bulk-Goods.
P. R, LARKIN, Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant and Importer,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL, GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS, HAYMAKET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 778 and 780 George-street, Sydney,
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WAIT, AOH BROTHERS.
LEA&PERRINS'SAUCE
SAIIC
srrawiai*
SSMTO**®**
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label on every bottle
bears their Signature thus —
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SA UCE is genuine.
■Ask for LEA and PERRINS* Sauce , and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester, Crosse and
Blackwell, London , E’c., drc.; and by Grocers and. Oilmen throughout the World.
Wholesale Agentsi Montemobh, Joseph & CO.l David Cohen & Co., Sydney.
3
rs
9
0
9
fdsdsdsdsdsdsd
JHOB
262 a George
JLate jPaehtt lfcu
OFFORD & CO.'S
LIGHTEST, BEST, and CHEAPEST.
NEXT TO ROYAL HOTEL, and at 652 GEORGE; STB® 1 *
Lawler’s 608 Lawler’s
GEORG-E STREET,
SYDNEY,
Between Liverpool and Bathurst Streets.
FREETRADERS AND PROTECTIONISTS,
Voters, wherever ye be, bear one principle in
mind, and that is that wherever ye find one who
may safely claim to be a public benefactor stand
by him.
608 GEORGE STREET is the address,
LAWLER’S THE FIRM.
Value the power and the secret spell.
Furniture, Bedsteads, Glasses, Chairs, and
Bedding, at extraordinary low rates.
Ironmongery, Glassware, and China. Kitchen
and Household Utensils, at prices that compel ye
to buy.
And several lines of White Shirts at from 3/11
to 9/- each, which simply astounds those who
view.
Note.—There is ONLY ONE LAWLERJS,
and that at
608 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
RAW VASELISTE.
B
A
HORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
Collar Check and Serge, 40 and 44 inches ;
Large assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladles’ and
Gentlemen’s Saddles, Spurs, and all kinds of
Saddlers’ Ironmongery, &o.
BLACKBUBN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS, AND SADDLERS
IRONMONGEF a
125 YORK ST., SYDNEY.
|PP<Hottmt MAiwfACniltHtEglll
fCONFECfIONER^^^
JAMES STEDMAN
St cam works,-Kent s* nur Emmc S!
° m J t *oftT£sr matte*.
WJ O H N s O N
• COOPER, SURVEYOR,
and
LICENSED GAUGER,
11 PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND
STREET, SYDNEY.
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces and Kegs, . Tallow
Casks, new and second-hand; also. Wine and
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prices.
«AIIOT« IN AW ITS BRANCHES.
fHO WINEGROWERS AND OTHERS.
X G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE CASKS, 250 to 400 gallons j
also,
Rum, Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS.
Hogsheads, Quarter-casks, Spirit Kegs, 'from
gallons and upwards.
COOPERAGE
97 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
*?«>w(ws» King Mart** .
Soli ty SHOE DEALERS, GROCERS and DRUGGISTS.
prize medals.
r.
oX
05J5
m
H duc SnS
j-funcns. BOS 10^
BOSTON, 1869.
VIENNA. 1879.
FHIJLA., 1870*
HAUTHAWAY'S
OLD
BELII!LE
Peer
«
A necessity
family. It
polishes U
CfclliMrf _
Shoes, Babers j
tJ 11 -
Satchels,
brushing.
gives
“THE
C/L.HAUTHAWAY'&S?/*
€3l & 233 Congress Street, *
T
HE FRESH FOOD AND IC®
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
No. 23 ROYAL AR
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Coco#*
light refreshment#.
4*
At this Branch, orders may be 1 rf®
by their carts.
They have also taken over tfa#
“ KOUMISS.” so highly recommend# 0
nary^cemplaints.
FRESH FOOD AND ICE 00.,
... 21
Head Office .
Stables ..
Factory „
Mif
Guinness* Extra
FIRST QUA
BASS’ PALE
SOLE PURVEYORS
COIONIAI AND INMAN
LONDON,
By Special Appointm# 0 ®* os' .
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH „ |}|W
W. BALCHIN, JOHNSTON *,,/
Commercial Chambers, .
Try
MUSICAL INSTBtJ^^
The Largest Assortment in the
'Col'
it m
705 GEORGS '
Send for Price Lis®*
FRYS MALTED COCOA 1
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
"AN ORDINARY OUP CONTAINS MORE ACTIVE PROPERTIES OF MALT THAN A PINT OF THE REST ALE OR PORTER."— LANCBT.
Manufacturer
OF ALL KINDS OF
DERATED WATERS
COP DIALS, and BITTERS.
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and SYDNEY.
GOLD
ONLY 4
MEP^
CALCUTTA
Exhibition-^
