

The Bulletin
Oxf ordHotel
UCNRY THORPE, Proprietor,
LATE OF THE B_A.X0EI3Sr 33-AJDED5T HOTEL, COOG-BHI.
m -
Siiis::
1»;
»''vl 1 f' fj#'
JJJ1
IT
an
i
sa
II
OXPOBO
8&SS
[THE
OXF
OHD
HOTEL
i
'=
■
elevated and central position in Sydney, AT TOP OF KING STREET, adjacent to
a U Law Courts, Macquarie-street, Hyde Park, Domain, and the Botanical Gardens.
PRIVATE SUITES, LADIES’ DRAWING-ROOM, AND GOOD AIRY BEDROOMS.
Rotel i s replete with every convenience. Baths fitted with hot and cold water. Telephonic communication. Telegraphic
office in Hotel.
is now under entirely new management, atd the present proprietor trusts by careful attention to Business to make the
Oxford a Comfortable Home for Visitors or Residents of Sydney.


%
IXWITtATEO CATALOGUES tPWCES POST FREE-
r. H. PA LI N G SrGy"”
3S6ttORCE ST SYDNEY.
f Music Importers,
largest Stock *nd greatest Variety in Australia - ■living the
ktblicthe wide Impossible choice.- PIANOS from£4o, ORGANS from£l2-
* PAYMCtfI tY I^ONTHL V INSTALMENTS TO SUIT ALL CUSTOMERS
txmo * fc PALING S, Q> PALING &■ 0?
[ARDMAN BROS.
ixm.lnll.llMiniMll
ITHTWIITITn
iMMinlinTlTriMj/
Mu
\KI)^JIUBI l\j $
MiTiRWGifiORS
Z
UUUU
flr/w « factory Newtown
BRANCH. CEORCE SI SYDNEY
Goi&fMSrxvr/
AAB
7ft LAC l £
RFf/NfRS
' fsro
toss
(mI'LJP
IJIHE
AUSTRALIAN BANKING COMPANY,
LIMITED,
HEAD OFFICE!
CORNER of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
yrooBPOBATKD by Act of Executive Council.
CAPITAL, £500,000 STERLING.
RESERVE, £36,718 STERLING.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS—
■he Hon. Franois Abigail,
M.L.A.
John Hurley, Esq., M.L. A.
J. F. Martin, Esq.
John Vann, Esq.
J. H. Nathan, Esq
John Scott, Esq.
Arnold Mathey, Esq.
The dividend declared and paid to the Shareholders a the
(•at Annual General Meeting, held on the 28th July last,
fFM M follows:
Dividend paid to Shareholders at the rate o 12| per cent,
per annnm '&rvn
Bonus paid to Depositors of 12 monthß (2 per cent.)
„ „ 6 „ U per cent)
The Bank transacts all usual Banking Business.
Current accounts opened, Bills Discounted, and
■lakes Advances upon all kinds of Commercial
Securities.
Agencies In London and throughout the world.
OVERDRAFTS GRANTED AGAINST DEPOSITS
OF DEEDS.I
Deposits Received.
Interest Allowedi
At Call, 4 per cent.
8 Months, 5 per cent.
6 Months, 6 per cent.
12 Months, 7 per cent.
WITH BONUS ADDITIONS TO DEPOSITS*GF
BIX AND TWELVE MONTHS. S?
Depositors can arrange to withdraw the whole
•r portion of their deposits without notice.
The Share Register is still open, and intending
gh* reholders can obtain upon application any
Information they require, also printed copies of
report, minutes, forms of application for shares,
ato. Ac,
BY ORDER OF IRE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
H. M'NAMARA,
SECRETARY
THOS. BUUKLAND,
MINING. MAOHINERY, AND GENERAL AQIBI
Charters Towers.
Agent for Robey and Co., Engineers, Linooln)
~ „ Lengland's Foundry 00., Melhooiei i Yli
E. D. MILES,
MINING AND COMMISSION AOBM,
Mining Exchange,
charters towers, queenblabd
UMBR® LLAS
RECOVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have four Umbrella Framer rv
oovered and roar
Paranoia re-lined and made eona
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Batbont Street*
ParaaoU made to match aoa
toan Kanatra naatlr exaaata*
WILLS' HOTEL, Mackay, Queensland.
EDMUND DUNNOCK, Proprietor.
Travellers and Families will find the old well*
known reputation maintained.
J£IkI.PERI AL HOTEL, TOWNSVILLE.
Proprietress, SARAH EATON,
te Of Mnswellbrook and Rockhampton.
MT First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Masonic hotel, east-street, Rock-
hampton.—t. MURPHY, Proprietor.
Wayßlde Gleanings i—The “ Western Cham-
pion " says 1 “ I can recommend theQßookhampton
Masonic to my western friends.’ |
LEICHHARDT HOTEL,
ROCKHAMPTON.
Proprietress —Mrs. J. GIBBS,
(Late of Westwood.
First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
USE 'MOONEY’S CORN EXTRACTOR.
A SAFE AND SPEEDY CURE.
HAS NEVER FAILED.
" v
Price, 2s. 6d. per.bottle.s ' "
Posted to all parts of the colonies free on’reoelpt
if stamps. - r V*.
MOONEY, Chemist, Cootamundra, N.8.W.”
Palace Family Hotel,
Corner of Stanley and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
First-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments.
Admitted the coolest and best ventilated
house in the city.
DAVID LYONS, Proprietor.
JgIXCELSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected In above
wn, situated corner of 6111 and Church-streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
A SOVEREIGN BEMEDY
lo a' Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tic-
Doloreux, Aching Pains In the Limbs
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give Instant Rel lef and Cure In a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change In diet
necessary In Bottles, Is., 2s. B<L, 55., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT
ROSE’S CELEBBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion Is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tee
tlmonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared br the Bole Proprietor,
I. A. KOBE. Pharmaceutical Chemist,
081 Georsre-atreet only.
WALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Maker
296 Pitt-street.
o
m
OnMMLtn mu* Pt*t Atent*
4as*
066 Pm &r
Marquees on Hire.
THE ORICINAL
Baking P
t WAUGH'S <
OBTAINED A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
O P
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
ISTHE BEST INTHE WORLD.!!
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUCHS
RECEiVEQTHE INTERN AT lON AL
PR HE MEDAL
Manufactured byJamesCharnon
Harbour S r Sydney
Sold by All Crocers and Storekeepers
w
*£*£*-.
DIXSONXSONS
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY.
~I~\IXSON & SONS’ CONQUEROR FA^;
not only manufactures MOKE TO
THAN ANY OTHER, but CONSUMES
BULK OB THE AMERICAN LEaE lnjpot
into New South Wales, and. hence the g
of their brands. cco tn
CONQUEROR, greater sale than any®
Australia,
YANKEE DOODLE,
SIR RODGER, CB0 plo
gold leaf. miXTUB* 1
DIXSON’S CUT RUBY, ORIENTA
CIGARETTES, DIXSON’S No 1 maobin ® [ti
. . t virgin l * ll
lA. ■ 10,000 per hour, the choicest . a li
, IPnU fli»> 801(1
ia) i a and Paris rice tissue,
retailers at 3d. per packet of 10 c B
2v£COT:E£’S
NEW ZEAI AND,
HERBAL REMEDIES.
TESTIMONIALS
From the Soudan Contingent Hosplta
Corps; also from eminent Doctors and
Students.from Sydney Hospital.
. Viz" -, T‘ {V
._ 92! - -'
'55-‘34" \ Wﬁ“ 77 , 7 : é‘ A.
w \I‘eseacisxv‘ -
My , _ Yug,‘
.3 '-, L\:~
MONK’S
PiLE MIXTURE)
2a. 6d. per Bottle.
Aak (or it and take no aubatltnte.
U an invaluable cure. See teitimoniala.
adiojsrißZ’s
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhoea Mixture,
A positive cure. Sold by all Chemlste.
2s. 6d. .per bottle.
MONK’S
NEURALGIA MIXTUPE,
2s. 6d. bottle,
Sole Agents:
MATHEY, NATHAN & 00.,
201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
AND
44 Little Collins treet East, ' Melbourne.
MINING tX'jHANGE HOTEL,
GYMPIE, yUKKVSLAND.
The Centrai Hotel. Private Sitting Room.
Rendezvous lor all parties engaged In mining
business.
11. Q. BAILES, Proprietor.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
FIRST-CLASS Accommodation lor Commer-
cial Gentlemen and Families. Private sitting
rooms without extra charge. Plunge and Shower
Bath. Billiards (A 1 cock’s). First-class chef.
Charges striotly moderate. Wines and spirits of
the best brands, Man meets every steamer,
HANRAN, June., Proprietor,
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
Contracting Carriers,
FORWARDING AGENTS.
Head Office: Townsville,Jf. Queensland.
G. S. OURTIS,
Auctioneer'& Real Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
MR. BOLTON (of the firm of Lowry and
Bolton) wishes to Inform the numerous
friends of the Firm and the travelling public that
he has gone to Mount Morgan to take charge of
the SUNBURST HOTEL, which will henoeforth
be oarrted on under his personal supervision.
Sunburst Hotel, Mount Morgan, centrally situated,
and facing the celebrated Mountain. Persons visit-
ing the celebrated Mountain will find every oomfort
and convenience to greet them on their arrival.
BILLIARD TABLE AND PIANO ON THE
PREMISES, also STABLING for the accommoda-
tion of Thirty Horses, and a good PADDOCK
within five minutes' walk of the Hotel. Coaches
DAILY FROM AND TO ROCKHAMPTON.
Note the Address—
V*~ M lOHAEL BOLTON
- t (Of the Firm of Lowry ft Bolton),
8 U N B URBT HOTEL,
KTWIT3) MOUNT MORGAN.
S 3
REMINGTON
TYPE-WRITER
Save, labour, itatlonery, and time, writing wnoh farter
than expert pen-wen, and een&eneing waiter to leei than
one-half the epaoe oeenpled by pen writing. Beanttfiu
eoniei wag be taken In the ntual wanner in the letter- preai
'Bold whsleiale and retail by the »ole agent*,
zm —- _
IMRAX ft CO,;
■ 110 Kent-strees.
c
or
iIAMQFACTUftCRS
£IMPORTERS OF
HATS CAPS U
438CEORCE ST
SYDNEY
V
A
HOT^
GRAND
BUNDAB®*°
tot P 8 ®*
00^’
Hurt* 1 '
.so* 1
*•»
Under New MaN aB
FINEST SAMPLE ROOM B*
PLUNGE AND. SHOW®* 1
Good Stabling, and Loose Boxes
DRAWING-ROOM S' oll
Having engaged a flrsfc-ol* 3 ® gHyl*
to oater for the public Id »
ALF. P.
ruston &c0 ‘
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION
“TRIUMPH" THRASHIN®
. St A* 1 *
Simon's Roller System or
Sole Agents • qQ„
T.. O. ELTJOTT * fpS st
54T KENT STRB® 1,
THE GREAT NORT^^,g
Ohablotte-plaok *J )A> u -fp X M
K. HAJcn£s>
WIIIS, SPIRITS, **Sl«*£<
ran please from the list of l° w ** ’j ¥n Jo. p. jJ
Robertson's, Walker or RoFalB!f n ixX R l *® - «•' 2
Danville's Shamrock and Burke* A »■ «• WjJ
# S*' gd
: Sjf
iuVg
,uS»-
Brian Bora Whisky
Hennessy’s * Oognao
•i *** ••
Square Sin _
Jamaica Rum ..
Red Heart do.
Flasks Brandy and Whiskies r: j*. or
English Ales and Stout, best br . an ,“ T ,lld«
Port Wine for oonnoisseurs ana _
Port Wint and Sherry from •• gos. «««"
Best brands Whisky or Brandy * r _„ ¥C rjlAl'l* 110r *.
M CASE ALSO A BPBO* Tr^'W#
Superior ACCOMMODATION ooof 4
attention afforded to Visitors fr°® rT i < 1000* I jte* > t»4*|
rooms are conducted under the.*»& ml £> V
late of Wellington (N.Z.), The
finest* will receive every attend „„ b*°“'
Guests will reoelve every
Wines, Spirits, and Beers alway
papers kept on file.'
i44c/
ma(
r 'W
*
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE
stocks
WITH ALL
NEWESTDES |CNS
HIGHEST FINISH
AT
I QWEST COST
CRA*“
A* 9 *
HO' sT L
eKC'^
LA
MO
LOCOMOTIVES, TUG A«^ tE
estimated FOB
C H*
11l
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET


The Bulletin
■Vol. B~No. 4C9
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1887.
Price, 6d.
The Two Road?.
N.S. W. "DON’T YOU THINK WE’D BETTER TAKE THE ROAD TO INDEPENDENCE?”
PARKES "NO THE ROAD TO IMPERIALISM—I KNOW IT WELL—IS NICE AND BROAD, AND WHEN WE GET TO THE EN IT THERE ARE PLENTY OF PRETTY
RIBBONS AND DECORATIONS FOR US ALL. I HAVE MANY RICH AND HOSPITABLE FRIENDS, TOO, ON THE WAY.
N.S.W. VERY WELL DO AS YOU PLEASE, BUT I’M SURE WE SHALL BE ROBBED."


"THE BULLETIN,”
The National Australian Newspaper.
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
THE
CHRISTMAS “BULLETIN.”
>
TO AGENTS AND READERS.
The SPECIAL NUMBER of “ THE
BULLETIN ” for Christmas, 1887, is now
in. preparation, aud will eclipse anything yet
produced in Australia at that so-called festive
season. The issue will be nearly twice the
usual dimensions , and will contain a splendid
collection of tales, verse, Ac., by the best Aus-
tralian authors, together with an immense
number of high-class illustrations. A special
feature, will be an exquisite pictorial sup-
plement, printed at “ The Bulletin,” Of ice
from a drawing by that well-known artist,
Mr. Phil. May—one of the best efforts
which his pencil has yet produced. Regarded
as a. work of art ' and literary genius, the
CHRISTMAS “ BULLETIN ” wilt con-
fidently challenge comparison with any journal
in existence, and will yield, precedence to
none.
Agents and advertisers are requested to send
in their orders at the earliest possible date, as,
O wing to the immense edition to be published,
it ■will be necessary to go to press several days
in advance.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1887.
The Decadence of England.
The recent pronouncements of the Free-
trade party have brought the weary old tale
of Britain’s wealth and grandeur, as mani-
fested under the Cobden regime, once more
to the front. There is no peace in this
World for that patriarchal fetish. Even
though the hoary chestnut takes unto itself
Wings and flees to the uttermost ends of the
earth it is captured and dragged back that it
may be dished up anew by some political
Ignoramus whose one idea is based upon
England’s not Australia’s greatness.
There is no cavern deep enough to hide it in
its old age, no seclusion lonesome enough to
protect it from further molestation ; without
it the Freetrader is a thing of emptiness
and sorrow, so his one mouldering illustra-
tion does duty in season and out of season.
When England falls, as some day she must,
and her boasted financial system proves
powerless to save her, then the glory of the
Freetrade Association will have departed,
and“lchabod” will be written above its
gates, bub for the present the mother-
country is still in the Indian summer of her
greatness—in that stage of existence when
wealth accumulates and men decay—and in
the eyes of the theorists, whose political
creed lies solely in a servile imitation of the
worn-out policy of the Antipodes, her king-
dom is to last till the earth itself shall pass
away. A dozen great States which in suc-
cession held the commercial supremacy that
England now enjoys have mouldered into
dust; the very sites of Tyre and Carthageare
now almost undistlnguishable, and Alexan-
dria, Yenice, Antwerp, and Amsterdam are
merely the monuments of their own
past greatness, but in the books from which
Attorney-General Wise and his fellow
disciples cadge their opinions it is related,
apparently, that these commercial centres of
the past fell through the blighting influence of
Protection. England, which rose upon their
ruins, has built her supremacy on the eter-
nal rock of Freetrade, and while Truth re-
mains her commercial sceptre must endure.
The story of her boundless prosperity under
the beneficent reign of Cobdenism has been
told so often, and with so much persuasive
eloquence, that it seems almost heartless to
give away the time-honoured myth, and to
show by the hard logic of figures that ruin
is writ large on the walls of England’s
palaces, and that Freetrade—that golden
idol with the feet of clay—is slowly dragging
the mother country down to a secondary
rank among nations.
* * *
It is with regret, therefore, that we lay a
sacreligious hand on the Ark of the Cove-
nant, but we are weary to death of the old,
old story of how Freetrade laid the founda-
tion- stone of British prosperity. That work
was done ages before Cobdenism was in-
vented, and before Cobden’s ancestors had
appeared upon the earth. Long cen
of internal peace and freedom from -«*t
built up the manufactures of the y ’ B
country, and her naval supremacy—^!
suit, mainly, of her geographical poaition-
founded a commercial marine, which in-
creased until the British flag overshadowed
hies
any*
static
hand
een,
des.
ionds,
«ir_Yn
every aea known to man. Since the dark
winter of 1217, when a French army gar-
risoned London, Britain has seen no foreign
enemy worthy of the name upon her shores,
and her islands were the one spot in dis-
tracted Europe where the cities of industry
were not laid iff ashes, and where the fruits
of man’s toil were not lost in bloodshed and
massacre. The manufactures of busy Ger-
many were all but wiped out by the strife
which rent that unhappy country for cen-
turies ; the artisans of Flanders drifted to
England, and carried their looms with them,
because France, Spain, and Austria had
turned their native country into a battle-
ground ; the silk-weavers of France followed
their example, to escape from the fires of re-
ligious persecution ; and while every vestige
of industry was well-nigh swept away by fire
and sword from the European continent,
England grew rich on the spoils of her
ruined neighbours. Her commerce, like her
manufactures, was built up, not by Free-
trade, but by foreign war. The campaigns
of Napoleon led to the blockade of almost
every port of Central Europe, and
when he fell in 1815 he left the trade of the
world almost entirely in English hands. The
maritime nations which, twenty years pre-
viously, had held the largest portion of the
earth’s commerce, had lost their colonies,
and of their once great fleets hardly a single
sail remained. Britain, the mistress of the
sea, had absorbed them all, and in two
decades she had gained an advantage which
500 years of madness could hardly have
thrown away.
* # #
How successfully—under the guidance of
CoiiDEN and his successors—the advantages
of that bloodstained past have been and are
being sacrificed, figures— the figures which
Mr. Wise and his party are so strangely
addicted to suppressing—will tell. The
amazing expansion of British commerce
under the beneficent policy of Freetrade is
one of the subjects on which the Cobdenites
of Australia have wasted an alarming amount
of their fluency. Yet a study of the net
exports and imports of the leading nations
of the world shows that, after all, Britain has
retrograded, rather than advanced, during
the halcyon period of commercial freedom.
In 1830, when she was fast held in the iron
fetters of Protection, she possessed 27.3 per
cent, of the aggregate trade of the globe ; in
1880, her share amounted to 21.2 per
cent. only. Of what she still retains
one-fourth is due to her almost entire
monopoly of the trade of her rising
colonial empire, and had she occupied the
same footing as her rivals—had she, like
France, Germany, and Italy, been an Em-
pire within herself without any Greater
Britain to fall back upon—it is reasonable to
assume that she would have suffered to a
much greater extent. During half a century,
in the course of which the aggregate com-
merce of the world has increased to an
enormous extent, Europe, while steadily ad-
vancing, has failed, as a whole, to keep pace
with the universal march of prosperity, and
her share of the world’s trade is 7 per cent,
less than in 1830. Of this loss 6 per cent,
belongs to England, the one avowedly Free-
trade nation of a benighted continent, while
Holland and Scandinavia, also quoted
as shining lights of commercial free-
dom, make up more than the balance,
and leave a surplus of prosperity in favour of
their Protectionist neighbours. Cobdenism
has not only failed to keep England abreast
of the age in commercial advancement, but
it has wrested from her much of what she
gained in the days of tariffs and financial
darkness, and already the boasted policy of
the Corn-Lawprophet has been the beginning
of her undoing.
* * *
And not only is England losing ground, as
compared with her Protectionist neighbours,
but she is every day acquiring fresh velocity
in her downward course, and in proving this
Muliiall, the oft-quoted authority of the
Freetrade party, blights their cause beyond
all redemption. In the decade, 1870-1880,
the commerce of Freetrade Britain increased
by 25 per cent., while that of France, with
its universal system of Protection to local in-
dustry, showed an advance of 50 per cent. ;
Germany, 49 per cent. ; Austria, 51 per
cent. ; and even Spain and Portugal, with
32 per cent, improvement, leave the boasted
principles of Cobden and Wise in the lurch.
Yet, according to all Freetrade theorists,
the growth of commerce is the great test of
national prosperity, and it is to the trade
returns of England that they invariably
point as the irrefragable proof of the truth
of their doctrines. Let them abide, there-
fore, by their own test, and explain, if they
can, why such figures as we have quoted
have no place in their diatribes against the
“ creature ” Protection.
* * *
In these days of commercial enlighten-
ment, as in the dark ages of the unen-
lightened past, Britain still holds her place
as the greatest shipping power in the world,
and this position she will probably retain
for years to come. But in this, as in other
branches of commerce, her Protectionist
rivals are advancing faster than she. In the
protective days of 1830 Britain and her colo-
nies possessed, according to the pitiless logic
of figures, five-sixths of the mercantile tonnage
of the world ; in 1881 the whole Empire
f counts two-fiftbs only. The growth of
gonial shipping has to some extent softened
0.fall of the mother country, but in spite
ds aid the loss uoder the Freetrade sys
is tremendous. Moreover, in th t mit
ter of shipping, Britain’s great commercial
rival, the United States, has been practi-
cally onb of the field. The naviga-
tion laws of the Republic have made her
mercantile marine a steadily-declining quan-
tity for many years, and it is the effete
nations of Central Europe, “ ground down
by Protection,” aril weighed with the real
burden of vasi standing armies, conscription,
and the losses incurred in many desolating
wats, which are slowly but surely stealing
away the carrying trade of England.
* * *
In the matter of manufactures, the United
States, despite the alleged handicap of
tariffs and the incubus handed down by the
slave system anil by four years of mur-
derous internal strife, has long since stolen
away Britain’s diadem, and in 1882 her an-
nual returns were already £300,000,000
ahead of those of the three kingdoms to
which Australian Freetraders point with
such soulful complacency. This result
is acknowledged— at times—-even by the
infatuated followers of the deified Cob-
den, but with a mendacity which is
past all moral remedy the result is
invariably ascribed to the vastly superior
population of the American commonwealth.
Vet, of the teeming millions who are gathered
under the banner of the Stars-and-Stripes
only 3£ millions are engaged in manufactur-
ing pursuits, while the operatives of Great
Britain are Gj millions strong. Despite the
so-called curse of Protection, therefore, the
American worker produces a result one-third
greater than that of hisFreetrade rival, with
only one-half the means, and the vastly
superior quality of his products enables him
to sellhis goods in the manufacturing centres
of Britain, at the very doors of her silent
workshops, her extinguished furnaces, and
her ruined factories. The manufactures of
America have multiplied more than fifty fold
during half a century, while those of Britain
have increased barely fifteen-fold in a cen-
tury. A grand total of £1,112,000,000 per
annum produced by 3i million workers in
the protected country, against the miserable
result of £818,300,000 by 6| million artisans,
in a land which is overshadowed by the pro-
tecting wing of the angel of Freetr&de,
and which, moreover, was a power in the
manufacturing world when the rival State was
still a wilderness, is a conclusion which ought
to relegate for ever the vaunted theories of
the Australian Free trade party to the realm
of fiscal damnation.
* * *
But it is not America alone with which
Britain has to compete. France, whose
manufactured products were, at the begin-
ning of the present century, less than a
sixth of those of her island rival, has now
lessened the gap to such a degree that her
products already amount to half those of
England, and at her present rate of progress
the time is within measurable distance when
she will compete with “ perfidious Albion ”
on equal terms. Protection, even with the
burden of revolution and disastrous wars to
nullify its effects, shows a result with which
Ereetrade, accompanied by peace and all the
aids to prosperity which it brings in its train,
cannot compare,
• *
The practical monopoly of commerce and
manufactures, which the condition of con-
tinental Europe, ravaged by war and ruined
by 8very form of internal strife, conferred
upon Great Britain, started that country in
the 18bh Century on a career of money-
getting which even the advent of Freetrade
was for a time powerless to stop. The
blighting influence of the new theories was
counteracted for years by the vast
supplies of gold and silver which flowed
into the fortunate land of England from
the colonial mines ; the accumulated
wealth of the three kingdoms was lent out
to foreign Governments and speedily drifted
back in exchange for manufactured goods,
thus lending a temporary impetus to British
industry ; and for a little while the country
rode on the high tide of fictitious prosperity.
But these golden days speedily passed away.
The nations which had been beggared by
war began to recover under a policy of Pro-
tection from the losses of the past, and as
their manufactures rose to importance their
borrowed millions returned to England no
more. Then the great centre of finance
commenced to move from London to Paris
and Berlin, and the city on the Thames no
longer rules the money-markets of the world
as of old. Her great financiers are now
mostly of German extraction, and should
any military or other disaster render their
adopted country no longer a safe or desirable
abode they will probably remove themselves
and their millions back to the Fatherland.
Even the vast stores of precious metal which
England gained, by her good fortune, from
Australia and other dependencies, slipped
from her weakened hold, and Franca, which
produces neither gold nor silver, and which
is fed by no wealthy colonies, gathered it in
until she now possesses 301 millions of
specie, against the 143 millions which make
up the sum total of England’s resources.
Accident bestowed on the Freetrade land
almost incalculable wealth, and the Protec-
tionist country, which received no such
favours from Providence, reaped the harvest.
* * #
Bub we are growing tired of wading
through a mountain of dreary numerals.
We have done our best to present in a
simple form a few of the figures which are
so terribly garbled by the popular theorists
of the day, and to present them stripped of
the tinsel of rhetoric, falsehood, and un-
scrupulous misrepresentation. They are
taken from a work published by an ardent
Freetrader, and which is quoted over and
over again by Freetrade orators, until its
very name becomes a weariness, * and when
exhibited without the limelight effects of
bombast and mendacity they show how
much better ib would have been that the
statistician had had a millstone tied round
his neck and been cast into the sea than that
he had lived to damn his cause with figures
■which refuse to lie even when the great
principle of Cobdenism is at stake. For our
part, the debadence of England is a subject
in which we take little interest, but the
mother country has been held up so long
and so persistently as an example of the
which Freetrade brings in its
train that it is worth while to inquire in
what direction the boasted prosperity lies.
And the result shows us how a country
which has been blessed with advantages
such as no country ever enjoyed before—
which alone of all the world has escaped
invasion, and the universal ruin which ac-
companies it, for 670 years, and which has
risen on the wreck of older rivals—has slowly
but surely sacrificed her proud position that
she might enjoy the empty boast of being
the one Freetrade nation on a much-protec-
ted earth. England has thrown away count-
less millions in order that Parkes and Wise
might vapour in garbled statistics about her
glory, and make themselves and their
cause a laughing-stock at the Antipodes.
Perhaps Freetraders may consider the result
worth the sacrifice, but to others it seems a
pit ably small result purchased at a great
price.
“Australia” for Australians.
By a majority of 56 to 17 the N.S.W. Legislative
Assembly voted the reading of Parkes’ Bill to
change the name of the colony, and affixed the
imprimatur of their countenance to the Premier's
proposal to celebrate the Centenary by a political
burglary. But Parkes has done more than that.
He has sounded the tocsin of his own political
death. Parkes will now learn to his cost what
may be in a name.
* * *
The speeches on the Government side were of
Ihe shallowest special pie ader’s type of oratory.
The thinnest and absurdest reasons were advanced
and as rapidly retired. The native-born hoax
was trotted out and then as speedily trotted back
again. The man who advanced it, with a burst
o£ fas ian rhetoric, was himself not Australian by
birth. Tho common sense of the House seemed
immediately and intuitively to reject the silly
nr tion that all men wno had turned their backs on
tna old world and the cut-worn systems of an
effete and tyrannical past were not Australians
The fanny part was that while Parkes claimec
that all the work of the years agone had been per
formed by English officials resident in Sydney, his
supporter claimed that such men should not have
a voice in the matter !
* * *
Should the red-rag-driven following of Sir
Henry Parkes pass this Bill to change the name
of the colony, each of the other colonies, as a
counterblast, should immediately pass a similar
Bill appropriating to itself the name of Australia
—for that name is the property of no single
colony, but of the entire continent. New South
Wales, the most strenuous obiector to the project
of Colonial Federation, the abject toady of Down-
ing-street officialdom, the foremost colony to re-
fuse to send a representative to the Federal
Council —the aims of which were to give meaning
to the word “Australia ’—is now the bur-
glarious ruffian who breaks into the strong-box
where the title deeds of the Continent are kept,
with an intention to filch and monopolise the
property of the constituent States. But Parkes
will find—if he is not entirely bereft of his senses
—that an Act of Parliament is insufficient to in-
duce “ Hingland” to discontinue calling New South
Wales by the name of Botany Bay.
* * *
On a question of sentiment, Parkes always
speaks ex cathedra. He is the Poet Parkes, and
is about as brilliant a success in the realm of
imagination as that other Australian politician
who was fond of dabbling in Helicon—the Poet
Lowe Sherbrooke. Premier Parkes has just
as keen a sense of humour as a Scotch brick-
carter, and about as much taste in matters
aesthetic as a Cape bushman. But his recent pro-
posal to change the name of the colony is objec-
tionable not alone on sentimental grounds. There
are three very potent reasons for objection; on
grounds of fact, sentiment, and logic.
* * *
Geographically, the name Australia, applied with-
out qualification to New South Wales, would be
absurd. Etymologically it means South Land,
and New. South Wales is not the southern-
most portion of the Continent, but the most eas-
tern. Flinders named Terra Australis
Australia, to approximate its title somewhat
to that of other great portions of the earth’s sur-
face. New South Wales is not a great portion of
the earth’s surface, proportionately to Europe,
Asia, Africa, or America. Several of the
other Australian colonies are much larger.
Queensland, or Western Australia, or South
Australia, is vastly superior in area. Logi-
cally, the Parkes’ proposal has not even the
shadow of a leg to stand on.
* * *
Parkes* motion affirms in effect that the part
contains the whole. He has done a more wonder-
ful work than Euclid or Newton, and ought
now to go to his rest in some splendid mausoleum
in the State Deadhouse. Parkes would assert
that to call any silver coin of the fractional value
of a shilling by the same name, would be to raise
its value to that of twelve pence; but the argu-
ment will not hold good with his washerwoman,
or with the people from whom he borrows money
on his evil-smelling autograph. He has all his
life been engaged in affixing high-sounding titles to
low-meaning deeds, and passing counterfeit values
upon a trusting nation. If the present dodge is to
raise the price of New South Wales stocks in the
London share-market, his example ought to be
imitated by the municipal boards of Croajinga-
long or Jamberoo, It would, indeed, be just as
logical for Croajingalong or Jsmberoo to
assume the name of Australia, as for New South
Wales to do so.
• * *
As a matter of fact, New South Wales was
never called Australia. Tne present colony, with
its present boundaries, was never distinguished
by any such name. The little settlement on the


shores of Port Jackson mas called New Holland.
As such It appears on Governor Phillip’s sketch-
map. If antiquity is a recommendation, why not
again christen New South Wales New Holland ?
Barrington, in his history, designates it as
Botany Bay. By this name —the name by which
Charles Lamb speaks of it in his reference to
the poetical works of his friend, Judge Barron
Field— it is best known in England even to this
day. The very fact that different colonies called
themselves Western Australia and South Aus-
tralia shows conclusively that the name Australia
was always considered as descriptive of the entire
Continent. On the old maps bearing various dates
from 1519, the Continent appears as Grand Javaand
Terra Australis. Flinders’ designation applied to
the whole Continent. He circumnavigated it, and he
was the first who did so. In h’a great account of
his voyage to “ Terra Australis," he says :
B Had I permitted myself any innovation upon the onginal
term (Terra Australis) it would have been to convert it into
Australia, as beiug more agree ible to the ear and an assi-
milation to the names ot the other great portions of the
earth.
This was applied to the Continent. Everybody
recognised this, and does recognise it now, with
the exception of Sir Henry Parkes and his gang.
Mitchell called Victoria Australia Felix ; Bar-
ney’s attempted settlement at Port Curtis—to rea-
lise Gladstone’s notion of sentimental expatriation
—was gazetted as Northern Australia; and Sturt
described the country visited by him as Central
Australia.
# * *
Parkes’ allegation that New South Wales has
done the pioneer work for the remainder of the colo-
nies ia false, Imperial officials may have done it,
but it was mainly done at the instance of the Home
authorities, and whether an official was despatched
from Portsmouth to found a colony, or received
his instructions in Sydney, made little difference.
Parkes’ claim simply identifies his “Australian ’’
pretensions with Imperialism. Logan, Mitchell,
Cayley, were English Government officers ;
Allan Cunningham was the King’s botanist.
Leichhardt was a private gentleman, whose outfit
was scandalously inefficient because the Govern-
ment—at the instance of Sir Thomas Mitchell -
refused to acknowledge the abilitj or the courage
of tlie “ cc aster,” as the translator of
Camoens termed him. It is true that a paltry
pittance was tossed to him by those in authority
when he had achieved success, but not until then.
Of those pioneers who, moved by a desire for the
extension of pasturage for their flocks, impinged
upon neighbouring colonies, some of them cut a
very sorry figure. Batman, a native of Parra-
matta, tried to work a piece of sharp practice
upon the blackfellows at G eelong, and got snubbed,
very properly, by the Home Government for his
pains. Wentworth, the native-born apologist
and pleader for a colonial aristocratic order, was
one of the fiercest opponents to separation, and
one of the most determined foes to the Queens-
land colonists who demanded self-government. He
was also the favourer of a continuance of convict
transportation to Australia.
* * *
Queensland owes mestto Dr. Lang, and this brave
and able man was ruthlessly attacked and insulted
by Sydney’s entire officialdom. Parkes’ contention
that New South Wales founded tne other colonies
is false, as most of his other statements are.
Sydney’s governors certainly seut the worst
“ cases" to Moreton Bay, but they persistently
and tyrannically opposed free settlement there. A
Governor of New South Wales—according to
Parkes’ definition, an Australian— coEdemned
Port Phillip as a place unfitf or settlement. Victorian
expansion was first appreciably undertaken by the
Hentys—who did not go from New South Wales.
In South Australia —which, by the way, was a
colony founded on the lines laid down by a man
universally hated and written against by the
Sydney press Edward Gibbon Wakefield, and
in which the work of colonisation was forwarded by
aland company— Angas is oc e of the leading names,
and he did not go thither from New South Wales.
But multlplicat’on of examples is needless.
Whatever of pioneering was done in the other
colonies by New South Wales natives, was done
in furtherance of selfish designs upon those
colonies. Men risked their lives, perhaps, but
they risked them for their own pecuniary benefit,
and deserve not that splendid gratitude which
nations pay to men of the M‘Doual-Stuart or
Burke, or Kennedy, or Wills stamp.
• *
On sentimental grounds, Parkes is about as
shallow as a Lilliputian saucer. He says that to
call New South Wales “ Australia ” would be to
further the cause of Colonial Federation. This is
false, and Parkes knows that it is so Be
sides, Parkes is the declared enemy to
Colonial Federation. His own s ; gned articles prove
this. In particular, we would instance an essay
on “Imperial Federation," signed by Henry
Parkes in the Nineteenth Century of date
May, 1884, in which the recreant Australian poli-
tician advocates various measures calculated to
draw into ‘ ‘ closer bonds of union ” the dear old
mother-in-law ceuntry and her colonial offdhoots.
Parkes never in his life did a single Australian
act or passed a single Australian measure, unles3
his action was dictated by his ambition or hu
interest. His attitude, in re the Soudan fiasco,
was assumed to “dish” Dalley Had the idea
occurred to Parkes when he himself held the
reins of power, lie would have endeavoured to
go one better. All his Ilfs he has been a
plagiarist eager to anticipate a move ani secure a
little personal notoriety. This recent attempt at
injustice to the other colonies is nothing new in
his career. He is anxious to arrogate to the
colonists, who permit him to ride rough-shod over
them, the title of Australians, because ‘ Aus-
tralian” is just now a popular name. It is no-
thing to him that he is robbing Queenslanders or
Victorians cf their birthright). To him, the fact
that they will no longer be Australians enhances
the pleasure of assuming the designation for his
own colony.
* * *
The greatest curse of this Continent is personal
politics. E ich Premier is jealous of ail the rest.
The most dishonest means are resorted to to secure
a point of personal advantage. Honour is cast to
the winds of heaven, the most spec.ous special
pleading is descended to, and the most iniquitous
dodgery put in motion to obtain an alleged aud
temporary superiority over the others, by every
politician who wields power beneath the Southern
Cross. In New South Wales alone the Ministry is
a blow-fly Ministry it battens on flagrant
political corruption, and grows fat and gross on
questionable manoeuvring. The persistent aim of
Parkes and Co. is division of interest. They
divide to govern, because they know that if Federal
interests were to prevail, government by them-
selves would be impossible. Like other blow*
flies, they would be brushed aside from the
healthy political body and relegated to their
natural carrion.
• • *
Parkes’ undeviating aim is to divide the
oolonies, and make colonial federation an impos-
sibility, and the people of New South Wales have
allowed Parkes to assume all the functions of a
Dictator. If it were really necessary to celebrate
the colony's Centenary by a change of name, the
most distinctive and meaning change would be to
call New South Wales Orange, and Parkes the
Prince of Orange. His power is seemingly no less
than that of a prince. As in the Soudan matter,
Parkes bit his fingers at his inability to realise
the title of Rt. Hon. Henry Parkes, P.C., so
now he is ambitious of being styled Premier of
Australia. And for this he wou’d work off his
finger-nails. The recent proposal amounts to a
declaration of war against the rest of Australia.
From Parkes and Sir John Robertson, down to
the decentralising dog Toby of the Parke s Ministry,
the aim has ever been to foment jealousy and to pro-
voke ill-feeling. No opportunity is lost to irritate
Victoria, “ the Cabbage Garden.” The outcome of
this intercolonial iealously has been insistently
traded upon by New South Wales for political pur-
poses even in the matter of the adoption of a fiscal
policy. The naval vote to Great Britain will, in
the long run, probably be rejected by the latter
colony, not on the merits of the case but because
Victoria has adopted it. This hatred of Victoria
and things Victoriaa will one day culminate in a
civil war. Such an outcome is contemplated
without remorse—nay, with some indecent glee—
by members of the present N S W. Assembly, ani,
for aught we know, by members of the present
Ministry. At all events, it would be idle foe them
to deny that they do not appreciate the tendency
that even' s are now taking. Tne great historical
event ia the annals of Australia will,
granted that the present policy is persevered in,
be a civil war between New South Wales and
Victoria, and for this Parkes, Robertson
& Co. will be mainly responsible.
* # «
That there is a reason for changing the name of
the colony we frankly admit, and the reason is
that quite a number of people in the world now
know that New South Wales is dominated by a
political charlatan named Parkes. That being
so, all things considered, let Parkes change his
name to Sharkes. We have already dene this
for him, and now only await his assent to put it
through Parliament. It would answer better
than altering the name of the colony. He has an
example in the pre ent Governor of his colony,
and, if people were once assured that si person
named Parkes no longer ruled in New South
Wales, stocks would immediately rise and the
London Standard would write nothing nasty
about the solvency of the colony. Sharkes
would be a good, distinctive name, and it bids fair
to become historical. Again, it is better that
Parkes should suffer a little inconvenience in the
matter than that two splendid countries should be
driven to try conclusions at the point of the
bayonet as the logical outcome of his narrow
parochial policy of intercolonial hatred and dis-
trust. Better shave Parkes and rename him
than engage in a bitter and wholly unwar-
rantable internecine war. And that is what we
are gradually but surely drifting towards under
present conditions.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Alfred Dommett.
It is a little singular how completely without
comment in our press, Alfred Dommett has
passed away. His death was cabled out, and the
dailies remarked that he had once been a New
Zealand Premier, and was a C M.G., but that was
all. Nevertheless, it is a fact that the highest
poetical expectations were once entertained of
him, that in what he did he achieved the distinc-
tion of praise from such men as Browning and
Tennyson in England, and Longfellow in
America. Furthermore, it is a fact that, in
literary London, he is wont to-day to be talked of
as the sole Australian poet, the Joaquin Miller
cwTO-Browingetto of the Southern Hemisphere!
This last idea is absurd enough, of course, but the
man and his work as a poet certainly deserve
more notice at our hands than they have received.
Browning’s poem, “ Waring,” is among his finest
fugitiva, and we have the poet’s own admission
that Dommett sat for the hero’s character.
Waring is the discontented adventurous genius,
who feels he can do “ anything,” and that every-
one else is doing “ nothing.” Nevertheless, he
is lovable and attractive enough. Browning
tells how he was at a Christmas revel with him
and some others, and carelessly left him. The
next day he was gone, none knew where, and the
poetis filled with affectionate remorse for this man
“prouder than the devil,” this dear, beastful,
pseudo-great man. Then somebody breaks out
with the news that he has seen Waßivs lounging
in a Trieste lateen shore-boat, and that is all!
Whereon the poet tenderly and humorously
prophesies great things somewhere, of which
Waring is to be the cause. Dommett was singu-
larly unlike such an a’traotive personality.
Neither the man nor the work he did had any
touch of the divinity of genius. He came out in
the early forties to New Zealand, and entered
upon the official career for which his training as a
barrister had fitted him. His performance was
always conscientious, respectable, creditable, but
no more. He did one good thing, however. He
drew up the petition for the recall of Governor
Fitzroy. He was Premier in ’63, but made no
mark. His fi>st poetical work appeared in 1872. It
was a Browniogese epic of the young Englishman
who loved the Maori maiden, with complications
aud results, and is quite unreadable, Browning
notwithstanding—or, perhapsweshouidsay, toany-
one but Mr. Browning and the British and Ameri
can Browniag Societies. It has aplcturesquepas sage
about the Maori maiden taking a swim by moon-
light, and there are pages on pages of analysis of
the author’s soul, which was far better, it would
seem, inarticulate in his body than given to the
world in the shape of all this “linked sweetness
long drawn out.” His second work, “Flotsam
and Jetsam,” was is3ued in 1877, and there was a
revised edition later on of the Browingese epic,
“ Ranolph and Amohia,” the young Englishman
and Maori maiden aforesaid. Viewed as
Waring’s “ Avatar ” performances, these
were horrible disappointers, but, judged simply
on their merits, they sufficed to raise their author
above the level of the Douglas Sladens, Hal-
lorans, and other drivel-pump 3 who have suc-
ceeded only too well in persuading the British that
Australia has produced a large surplus of
sheepifled cats-meat which she uses as an export.
Dommett resided in England since ’7l, and the
mild, old grey-beard (he must have been close on
70 when he died) could b 3 met around in London
society, where an introduction would be followed
by the murmured reminder: “ The Australian
poet, jou know!” Poor poet! poor Australia!
And he was a C.M.G. !
*
Bailing up the Civil Service.
Cruel, incompetent, and cowardly colonial
Ministers are among the chief evils which afflict
the Australian Civil servants. By weak and
sometimes oorrupt administration deficits are
made, and then the Ministerial bushranger eallies
\ forth with his little Budget, gun in hand, and
i “bails up" ths employes of Government, demind-
ing a percentage of their mon )y to pay the debt
1 wh’ch his weakness has contracted, with the
alternative of losing their official lives. It is mis-
fortune enough for competent officers that “ well-
connected ” loafers of every degree should receive
unmerited appointments in the Service ; it is still
worse that the loafers aforesaid should monopo-
lise the promotion of every department; but
when the whole service is bailed up and
forced to pay by reduction of their salaries
a defleit, largely caused by the appointment of
the loafers aforesaid; all efficient and deserving
men who can readily obtain engagemant else-
where will certainly be disposed to discard the
service in utter disgust. A more cowardly expe-
dient than this robbery of Government officers is
impossible and inconceivable. The Cabinet does
not dare, however loudly they may vaunt their
intention of so doing, to levy upon property the
tax which it should bear, or, better still, to annex
the unearned increment of land. It is too weak
to make those who should contribute to the
revenue discharge their rightful obligations, but
it is not too cowardly to rob, under the specious
name of “ retrenchment,” Civil servants who are
not represented, as every form of material wealth
is, in the Assembly. If this “retrenchment”
began with the enormous salary and perks
enjoyed by a noodle of a Governor, there
might be one element of equity in it ;
but the Governor is not in the power of the
Cabinet, as a poor devil in the Lands office is, and
therefore they fear to touch his inordinately high
remuneration. On the contrary, the tendency is
to increase in. And Ministers always manage to
avoid any reduction of their own hundreds. They
take from their official inferiors, but they do not
surrender anything of their own. The men whose
administrative ac"s have caused the defleit, pay
none of it; the official unfortunates, who are not
in any way whatever responsible for the financial
hiatus, are called upon to pay a huge portion of
it. This is the sta-e of things paraded in N.S. W.
by “ Cocky” Burns and his contemptible “ Co.”
as “ honest Government.” And it is in accord
w ith their other acts. The party mean enough to
attempt to steal the name of a Continent are
naturally prone to obtain revenue by politic illy
robbing defenceless Civil servant v
\ ♦
“Threa Jheers for Old England!”
Dear Bulletin,— The real truth as to the
meaning of the Naval Defence Bill of New
South Wales was only shown after the
division had been taken, when one of the
dominant forty displayed his repugnance to
Australian sentiment by yelling for “three cheers
for Old England!” Then was made clear the fact
that had not been voiced before—the fac* that the
majority which stood with Parkes are Imperial
Englishmen first, and Australians a very long
way after. There were in that majority some
members to whom this confession was an especial
disgrace. Sir Henry Parkes, months ago, when
the Soudan Contingent was in question, opposed
the project with vituperative vehemenoe, and
thereby gained credit for his supposed devotion
to the true interests of Australia ; the division of
Saturday shows that his opposition to the de-
spatch of the Contingent was but the obstructive
act of a politician who envied the Acting Premier
of the day the kudos which his policy had won.
Now, it must be manifest beyond contra-
diction that had Parkes had Dalley’s op-
nortunity he wou'd have acted as Dalley did
The enthusiasm for Australia’s good credited
to him in his policy of opposition, must, in the
light of the Naval Defence Bill, stand revealed in
its true character, as being the mere envious pas-
sion at a rival’s success. For there was nothing
in the despatch of the Contingent calculated to
livec Imperial fetters on these young States ; the
act involved no enduring political responsibility,
it entailed no heritage of tribute upon future
generations. But with the Naval Defence Bill
these things are not so. The handcuffs of Im-
perial control are in that Bill; its enactment will
surrender the Australian States to the direct
dominion of Imperial authority, and a movement
approximating revolt will be necessary to regain
the quality and quantity of freedom which we
now possess. It was a sound contention that the
con tituencles should be consulted before the Bill
pa-sed, for it concerns not only the entire policy of
the State, but it has the direct effect of limiting the
measure of personal and national freedom. It is a
Bill to surrender New South Wales to England—a
Bill for the Repeal of our Home Rule—and
worse. According to Lord Salisbury’s plan, the
fleet, which is to be maintained out of the
various Australian Treasuries, will be available
for foreign service with the consent of the colonial
Parliaments If the consent is wanted when
Parliament is not sitting it will, of course, be
snpplied by some Dalleysque filibuster without
consulting the national representatives, and then
the “Australian” squadrm will sail away on
some British piratical expedition, and leave these
coasts defenceless Or if Parliament should de-
cline to grant the required permission the leaders
of the opposition movement will be bought over
witu K.G.M G.-ships or baronetcies, and if
ad these means fail the Imperial officer
commanding the -‘Australian” squadron wili
simply get orde-s to go, and; the men who
pay his salary may draw themselves up in im-
potent wrath on the beach, and remonstrate as
they please. Or, at a push, the foreign admiral—
whom the colonists are to piy, but not to com-
mand-will always have sufficient armed force at
hand to exact the required “permission," and
then, when the al eged “ Australian ” fleet has
sailed away to bombird a foreign port, it will not
be surprising if the foreigner conns to exact ven-
geance in colonial waters, and refuses to
believe tint Australia is not responsible
for the vagaries of its fawn mvy. The incon-
sistency of opposing the Coitingeat and advocat-
ing this present Imperial surrender would wreck
the reputation of a Gladstone, but it merely
heightens the fame of Parkes. He is nothing
except when inconsistent, and not much of a
patriot when he is. Mr. Wise is worthy to stand
be3ide such a time-serving Premier. Forhasnot
the present Attorney-General written many
articles and letters to show that Australia’s true
po’iey and only safety is to be found in an ap-
proaching separation from England ? Mr. Wise
has, in time past, gained much credit for his
energy in voicing the sentiments of Young Aus-
tralia. Now, he strives to gain new fame by
assisting his chief to forward Imperial designs
against these States. To maintai a his plaoe he
has had to give the lie to his own self of some few
months ago. We cease now to wonder that
Parkes took this young man into the Ministry ;
the two, in their ready and willing treachery to
New South Wales and to Australia, and in the
vehemence with which they denounce those
aspirations which they once assumed to rever-
ence, are so nearly kin that their partner-
ship in politics seems the most natural of
facts. Rahabs usually travel in couples; it is
appropriate, therefore, that Sir Henry Parkes
and Mr. B. R. Wise should take their poll ioal
journey arm in arm. Apart from the fact that
this humiliating Bill drags the country closer 10
“ Old England,” there ii the no leas serious ob-
jection that its tendency Is to cause antagonism
between the colonies. Much of its support is
solely assignable to this cause. The members
who support the Ministry in their attempt to in-
su't and enrage all the adjacent States by appro-
priating to New South Wales the name of the
whole Continent, are nothing more than consistent
ia seeking a humiliating alliance with Great
Britain—an alliance that must be fatal to any
closer union of the peoples of Australasia. The
acts following that division by which the Bill
passed its second readiog are indicative of the
motives which operated throughout 5 the “cheers
for Old England ” were called for to drown the
patriotic voices which cheered for “Australia,”
and that is the motive of the strife. It is an at-
tempt to strangle Australian sentiment by twist-
ing an Imperial rope round the necks of the Aus-
tralian people.—A Cornstalk.
♦
The Loard Hath Need of farkes,
Parkes has undergone a religious awakening.
For many years his piona convictions have led-
him through the fresh pastures 0! worldly profit,
and by the still waters of hard cash, and the reli
gious sentiment which kept the people green for
his benefit in earlier j ears has not deserted him in*
his old age. A few months ago a Sunday lecturer
attacked him In public, and then Parkes woke
from a long slumber, and remembered the Sabbath
day to keep it holy. In the name of a command-
ment which he had forgotten until it became
mouldy and moth-eaten, he started out to suppress
his opponent by prohiblt’ng the dire iniquity of
Sunday entertainments, and the God of the snuffle-
busters was called upon to witness the purity of
the motives whioh had led him to let the Holy Day
perspire until his own personal interests were
affeoted. Then his fervour began to wane, and
he relapsed once more Into the primrose paths of
expediency, and wandered again beside the still
paters which, by the Divine blessing, have so
long floated down bric-a-brac, and loans of ready
money on weak security, and profitable blocks of
land to his door ; and in the excitement of going
broke and getting a testimonial he quite for-
got the Sabbath to keep it holy, until a cer-
tain Sunday paper commenced to publish
accusations concerning him which, if true, would
have blasted the character of a billiard-sharp
or a three-card swindler, and called upon him to
refute the charges brought against him or declare
him iolf a sooial leper whose very touoh was pollu-
tion to honest men. The challenge, whether
based on fact or fiction, was an open and
manly one. With the gaol door yawning in front
of him —with absolute ruin and a c jnvlot’s cell as
the inevitable result if his allegations were dis-
proved, Parkes’s opponent did his best to brand
him with infamy—and the great Hi Ham was
silent. Bat at this opportune moment the reli-
gious sentiment which has led him for so many
years along a road paved with hym as and prayer,
came again to his aid, and in the name of that
sham creed, whose snuffle is from everlasting to
everlasting, it was resolved that the sanctity of the
Sabbath should be preserved. The editor who
had levelled such scorching charges at his head
was left unmolested to heap new.lume upon him,
but the Inspector-General of Police at one: started
a fierce crusade against the ragged, barefooted
boys who sold the journal in wh'ch Parkes s
alleged disgrace was published to the world.
For years these miserable little urchins had fol-
lowed their avocation, without rousing that spirit
of the church militant whioh i 3 so prominent a
characteristic of the inoer Parkes, as distin-
guished from the airy, insolvent outer Parkes of
seatiment and washy poetry; and, strangely
enough, even when the 00 wardly old tyrant was
roused to the uttermost by the memory of the
outraged and frac-ured Sabbath, it never occurred
to him to interfere with those other journalists
who light up their offices oa Sunday night that
they may get out Moadiy papers filled wi.fi ful-
some adulation of the Hi-Ham and all his works.
And not one of his colleagues—ttot even the
chivalrous Attorney G eneral Wise— seems in-
clined to interfere with this campaign against
penniless Arabs of the pavement, and bid the
burly old autocrat hit some one of his own
size. According to Parkes's explana ions the
police have taken their st-angely opportune ac-
ton on their own responsibility, and are merely
carrying out a law which has be en recognised in
New South Wales since the cjlony was first
established ; yet he shows no intention of remov-
ing the Inspector-General of Police from office for
the atrooioas neglect which allowed the Sunday
observance law to beoomo a deal-letter, as far as
newspapers were concerned, until his own in-
terests were concerned, and his own thirst for
underhand vengeance had to bs satisfied. Pos-
sibly, however, the legal mind of Mr. Wise can
furnish some explanation of this apparent
anomaly. The Attorney-General has already dis-
graced himself sufficiently by associating with a
politician who when publicly charged in so
many words with being a heartless rogue,
apparently, dares not resent the accusa-
tion ; and men, who once respected him,
now ask if he can venture to ca'l him-
self an honourable Australian gentleman, aad
yet continue to breathe the air polluted by such
surroundings. It is idle for him to attempt to
shield himself and his chief behind the pitiful
assertion that Parkes treats the charges brought
against him with silent contempt. Wherein, we
ask, do these charges essanti tlly differ from those
in respect of which Parkes thought it necessary
to prosecute his assailant Webb? No man occupy-
ing the position of Chief Minister of a great colony
can afford to let such charges pass unless he
knows that a public trial would only lead —
as in a previous instanse—to defeat, and as a
fact Parkes on the present occasion wrote more
than one letter in defence of his character, and
was answered by being publicly branded as a liar.
Also, his opponent volunteered to oonvict him of
falsehood by documentary evidence, and then
suddenly the Premier became silent. Mr.
Wise is accused in the press of being the assoc'ate
of a—well, Parkes ; if he can clear himself of the
further suspicion of associating with a coward
and a hypocrite, he will, in some measure,
lighten his own disgrace, and the country waits
anxiously for the agile verbal shuffle which will
explain away the mystery of Parkes’ religious
awakening.


HISTORY OF BOTANY BAY.
The mysterious island that had laih for a
thousand years asleep in a, summer sea, ljke the
Sleeping Beauty in the children’s pretty story,
was thus rudely awakened—100 years ago-by
the, Beast! The advanced civilisation of England
had confessed itself a failure. It had been in
labour, and it brought forth a Calibanesque abor-
tion. The silver trumpet of the Prince in the
story was exchanged for the howl of a satyr. It
3 well that the Centenary of Australia, which re-
? finds us of this, should bb fittingly celebrated,
t is easy of comprehension that those interested
Should differ somewhat about the method. But,
tiy all means, let its celebrate our Centenary.
* * *
A few days after the landing at the mouth
of the tank-stream, the Governor called his people
tbgether under some gum-trees where is now
Macquarie-Place, and had the King's commission
read Letters patent for the establishment of a
civil and criminal judicature followed, and some-
thing like a first Charter of Justice was published.
There was a beautiful simplicity about the Philli-
pian code; bub yet, following the conventional
usage of codes, it called for some marginal refer-
ences. After the manner of Blackstone and
Stephen and other reputable jurists, therefore, the
Governor issued a popular commentary on hts
work. It took the form of the execution of a boy.
The lad was 17 years of age, and he was hanged
for petty theft just six weeks after the fleet sailed
through the Heads. Fate lost no time in repro-
ducing that bloody character of the spirit of
British penal legislation, which, with other British
products, Australia has since made so fondly its
own.
* * •
But Phillip, as we have seen, was not
entirely a brute. The honest savage merely did
what he conceived to be his duty. He was a
captain in the navy of the time that Marryat has
described. On his own quarter-deck the captain
could do as he liked ; and there is a droll story of
such an officer who, with a fine humour, tarred
and feathered one of his midshipmen, and con-
fined him In a hen coop for several weeks. The
Service afforded no redress, and the midshipman
had to resign and sacrifice his career before he re-
covered damages in a civil court. The “cat"
and the yard-arm were active disciplinary agents,
and the seaman was as much a subjeot for
hazardous experiments as the Australian
colonist was now to become. Phillip, his
apologists say, only did his duty in
hanging the hoy. Leading colonists said the
same thing last Christmas-tide when Governor
Carington refused to stay the execution of four
lads of about the same age as their pioneer. The
horrible blunder that resulted will blister the
national sentiment until Australia forgets its
Past, and vomits its squalid traditions out of its
mouth. But that late episode was consonant
with the whole tenor of the history of Botany
Bay. The old leaven lies deep.
* * *
The first law examination of which we
have record occurred soon after. A woman passed
in the practice and theory of the code. She
filched a flat-iron—and went forthwith and
hanged herself in her tent. It would be idle to
enquire what she could possibly want with a flat-
iron at that early stage of colonisation. The
philosophical observer is thus forced back on
the abstract significance of the fact. Viewed in
this way, it bears the most complete testimony to
the popular character of Phillip’s commentary.
Not every embryotic jurist [has such a rapid
success as this. But then, not every jurist has
such an opportunity.
• • *
A fair understanding being thus estab-
lished, the work of colonisation began. Two
French ships under La Perouse had arrived just
after the fleet, and remained two months. Had
they arrived a week earlier complications might
have ensued. But Providence, which designed
the country for Caliban, had arranged that the
future of Australia should rot fall into
the hands of a people fresh from the par-
tial awakening of the French Revolution.
So the Frenchmen left, leaving no trace behind
but a monument at Botany Bay which rose forty
years later, and this entry in a diary now before
the writer ‘' The French officers listened to the
proposals of two fair shop-lifters, who were missed
two days after the Frenchmen had sailed.’’ Then
those who were not sick, or otherwise disabled,
set to work. The houses for the officers, a sol-
diers’ barracks, hospital, convicts’ huts, and a
storehouse for provisions rose slowly, for of those
fit to work few or none had any mechanical
qualifications. So little care had been given to
the expedition that the first colonists consisted
simply of a heterogeneous agglomeration of
marines, magsmen. London sharpers and cracks-
men, atd a sprinkling of pickpockets. Of
farming they knew nothing. The results came in
their natural order. Dearth of provisions, sick-
ness, famine ; and by that time all that was left of
Phillip’s island valley of Avillon had vanished as
completely as the boy that was hanged, or the
Frenchmen’s two fair shoplifters,
* * *
The famine came like an angel of mercy
to withdraw the stricken ones from the horro-s
that were to come. Those who escaped with life
only preserved It to become the victims of a rapa-
city and a cruelty quite as blind and greedy as
the grave. But this came after. The seed sown
by the criminal negleot of the Home Government
which adventured on this hazardous experiment,
began to bear early fruit, and seven marines were
hanged together in 1789 for stealing bread from
the public store. A small party was sent
to Norfolk Island to try to raise provisions
there. Farms were laid out at Parramatta,
and the site of the present Botanical Gar-
dens became a farm for the support of the
settlement. Bub in February, 1790, only four
months’ provisions at half-rations were left, and
presently the Juliana and two hundred female
immigrants arrived with the announcement that
the Guardian store-ship, bearing food-supplies for
the settlement, had been wrecked at the Cape.
Then the Sirius, also bearing stores, was wrecked
off Norfolk Island. Phillip gave up his own pri-
vate supplies to the common stock, and confined
everyone to the same ration. He gave a State-
banquet at Government House —a rather better
hut than the othe-s—and each officer brought his
own bread to the sumptuous board, impaled on
the point of his sword.
* * *
From a journal, now extremely rare, pub-
lished by Captain Fench in 1793, we take an
extract here. It will show that the opinion held
by the aboriginals of British institutions was
almost as strong as the British objection to
American po'itic’l institutions to-day :—“ A con-
vict was taken in the act of stealing fishing-tackle
from Daringa, the wife of Col bee. The Governor
ordered that he should be severely flogged in the
presence of as many native a as could be assembled,
to whom the cause of punishment should he ex-
plained. Many of tkgm of both sexes accordingly
attended. . . There was not one of them that
did not testify strong abhorrence of the punishment,
and equal sympathy with the sufferer. Tee women
were particularly affected. Daringa shed tears,
and Barangaroo, kindling into anger, snatched a
stick and menaced the executioners.” Here was
a failure of justice in its deterrent effect at the
very outset. The sight cf a white man under the
lash, instead of having soothing and emollient
influence on the savage breasts cf there wild crea-
tures, simply moved one of the wcmen to tears,
and another to menace the exe cu loners with a
stick. The degradation that a British seaman of
the period could endure with sia-vish fatalism, cr
an Australian judge of to day order with the
most placid equanimity, caused a natural feeling of
disgust and abhorrence in savage man in his
lowest stage of development. It would be absurd
to say that they failed to recognise tlie “ rahural
justice” of the punishment. The woman from
whom the stricken wretch stole the fishing-tackle
shed tears at the brutsl spectacle she had teen
brought to witness. If anything could hare suc-
ceeded in mskiDg Phillip and his offre'S ashamed
of themselves and their institutions, this incident,
told by one of tbemscl res, might surely harm dot c
so. But, no 1 ibe black man was to be educated
up—or down—to the white man’s standard in
this particular. His crudest natural instincts
fad to be brutalised before he could appreciate
the beauties of the lash. The savage, whose
courtship consisted of a blow of a he eb man on
the head of his affianced, wss mo ved to abhorrence
on seeing a wh’te man flagged !
Major Rosa was sent to govern Norfolk
Island. Upwards of seven hundred persons were
there marooned, amidst all the horrors of famine.
It is impossible to repress the suspicion that every
execution was looked upon as a public benefit, as
lessening the number of mouths to be fed. “ All
persons, as well soldiers as others, the inhabitants
of the Isle of Norfolk, are hereby prohibited from
killing stock of any kind whatever, without con-
sent of the Government, under penalty of imme-
diate death by hanging.” When the Sirius was
lost martial law was proclaimed. “ All plunder-
ing cf public or private property will bo deeirod a
capital crime.” In August a proclamation was
issued which makes the t uspieion m indicated a
certainty : —“ Any person whale either male
or female, who does not to the of their
(sic) power and strength continue their share of
labour . . . shall be adjudged to suffer death.”
Words would fail to paint the misery of that
accurted island, of which the hideous
history was just commencing. The devoted
convict might indeed reflect that his
liberty was forfeit to “justice,” and that he
had become a fit object of hazardous experiments.
Of the marines Msjor Rom—whose measures
were stronger than his grammar—wrote “ Not
one of them has a shoe to their (sic) feet or a
shirt to their backs —not a pot to every twelve
men-not a bed or a blanket amongst them.”
But the other helpless wretches could not call
their souls cr their bodies their own. If England
is a great colonising nation to day, the fact is due
rather to the colonists themselves than to those who
sent them forth.
* * *
It is a pitiful story, this recital of the
first years of our history, and distressing to the
writer as to the reader. But what we have seen
of the steps which led to Australian colonisation
scarcely promised any hope of better things.
While the settlement was starving, the gaols “ at
home ” were still belching forth their fetid con-
tents, and the quicker the convicts were swab
lowed up by disease or death, the dangers of the
voyage, or the fate that awaited them in Austra-
lia—the more the expedient proprsed to co e with
the difficulties of the dilemma in which the Lords
Commissioners found themselves was hailed as a
proven success. It served its purpose, and
emptied the gaols for the moment. But it did
more. For it colonised a continent where the
English spirit of the time was to be perpetuated
long after a new liberalism had entered into
British politics, and long after the narrow spirit
of a hundred years ago had passed away.
“ D.”
“The Escaped Nun was visibly affected”—on re-
ceiving a testimonial at some place or other.
The Kaiser of kettle-drums and ballet-girls is re-
ported to have expressed a wish to hear once more
before he died the voice of his son, the Crown
Prince, loud and sonorous as on the field of battle
in former years. Approaching death and the
sickness of his son have probably softened the old
fellow’s heart towards him, for it is a well-known
fact that Prince Fritz was, until actually
suffering from cancer in the throat, as much dis-
liked by the classes as he was adored by the
masses. He is a man of simple tastes and simple
habits, free from superstition—his enemies cay
his ‘' atheist”—and as much of a Socialist as any-
one born to the purple can be. No doubt if he
ever came to the throne his reign would give a
renewed tenure of power to his dynasty. He is a
fine type of a fine race. These Prussian princes
are really men. Tcey rough it with their sol-
diers. They endure hunger and privation with
the meanest trooper. They laugh at the rigours
of Nature and break the ice on a winter’s morning
to take their daily bath. They are only a few
generations removed from those old country gen-
tlemen of Brandenburg, who paid court to the
throne of Poland, and kept an eye oa the Silesian
provinces. These Prussian royalists are vrrv dif-
ferent folk to the shoddy Bai ten menus <t,
Coburg-Gothas —the German Jews of royalty.
The princes of England are learned in girls
and cigars ; the princes of Germany in swords and
soldiers. The Crown Prince has outlived the
martial ardour of his youth, however, and has
popularity enough with the German people to
make his rule loved. Shonld he die, his son and
successor, a joung and Imperial tyke, panting for
the taste of human blood, is confidently prophe-
sied to transform the face of Europe into one huge
battlefield, and by his reckless waste of life hurry
forward those Socialistic reforms which his
father’s rule might have kept back for many
I ears.
When the “ Ailesbury ecandal ” was first cabled
to Australia, The Bulletin hazarded the con-
jecture that his lordship’s excommunication was
the result of social vagaries, rather than of turf
malpractices. The London Referee (to which
one naturally looks for trustworthy analysis of
Jockey Club motives) justifies our conclusions in
the issue just to hand. TheREFEREE says: —“ Lord
Ailesbcry has paid the penalty cf making a
couple cf mistakes, one of which is keeping low
company, and been treated by the Jockey Club as
any offend* r not boasting a title might have been.
. . . At the same time, I feel qui'c certain
that if Lord Ailesbury had not struck an indi-
vidual and eccentric line out for himself, but
joined the aristocratic long firm, he would not
now bo in whit police-court reporters call his
present pamful position.” So said The Bulletin.
Net because he was guilty of “roping” merely
did this noble kettle incur the wrath of that
choice company of pots, but because he ca’ ried
on his games under vulgar conditions. The
above-mentioned “ long firm ” of dukes and earls
has been doing for years what the boy Ailesbury
had scarce commenced to attempt, and they
yearned to take him to their bosoms and make
him one of them. But the reckless novice pre
f erred to go his own way—to dress i idiculou sly,curse
extravagantly in public, and otherwise sin against
Heaven and the House of Peers. Hence Ailes-
bury was warned off the turf, and will he cut
dead by the Prince of Wa’es until he learns to
swindle with the Grandisonian grace of the order
whoreunto ho was born.
♦-
Sergeant George Harrison, a gallant unpen-
sioned veteran, late of tbe 43rd Infantry, finds
that, in his old age, be can not get employment in
“loyal” Sydney. The Caffre War, the Indian
Mutiny, and the N./5 Campaign, in each of these
this wearer of five medals and several clasps bore
a brave ha nd. Harrison wants a ‘ ‘ commissionaire -
ship.” Such are life’s realities Whatadisenchanting
spectacle will be that of the medal-blazoned, once
stalwart veteran engaged in guarding the entrance
and shutting the glass door behind the departing
snobs! When the workman shall have fully
learned that it is better for him to fight the classes
in Trafalgar square than to fight with the classes’
coldiera under an Indian sun, he will not have to
travel round in his gray-headed days for someone to
put him In a caricature uniform, and give him a
switch to chase away dirty dogs.
♦
It is instruc'ive to note that just at the time pro-
letarian England is tottering round with a pinched
and wizened face and its emac’ated hand clawing
its foodless stomach, a conference of ladies has, in
Bond-street, London, decided that the plumage of
small birds shall no longer be considered as
fashionable trimming for robes or bonnets. This
is very pretty, this mercy to the small birds. Yet,
in this same sentimental Ergland, if a standing
tramp knocks down one of those same small birds
or snares a ha?e for food, he ‘slagged. A man
may heat his wife in Ergland, but he must not
beat his herse, or kick Ms cat, or tie a tin-pot to
his dog's tail. Women are of less account than
horses. The lords cf the “ ladies ” who extend
the cegis of their protection to small birds were
probably the same men who gave the order to fire
upon the crowd in Trafalgar-square the other day,
Tiie Naval Defence Forces Bill has been rushed
throush the Victorian Assembly and Council with
considerable Tory clatter—th e old nor entities of 1 he
latter Chamber going fo far as to break into
wheezy cheBrs when the third reedirg was carried.
On Friday morning Sir Henry Loch got inside
his Windsor uniform and carried a marquis, a
countess, and other ar.'s'ooracy down to Melbourne
Parliament House, to Bee him s’gn the blessed
Bill in becoming s’yle. Duncan Gillies and his
satellites witnessed the ceremony, and guns were
fired off somewhere in the distar ce. Not a sus-
picion of public interest in all this trouble was
anywhere apparent—not one man ia ten even
knew why that gunpowder was being exploded
into smoke. Jubilation ne\er extended beyond
the select circle which ran the show, but tidings
of the gun firing and “ great enthusia-m ” were
carefully cabled “home” from the Argus
office, to make a text for Tory ser-
mons in certain English papers. Australia’s
first step towards Imperial Federation has been
taken in a way that well accords with Imperial
precedents, glitter, noise, froth. Nothing sub-
stantial, honest, or hearty in the whole thing.
Those of the people who think see danger in a
Bill which inspires a Governor to sport his Court
finery ; hut the majority—worse luck !—don't
trouble a curse about t he matter.
The S.M. Herald, In a running river of John-
sonese, expresses its elephantine approval of the
action taken by the Victorian Parliament in
adding £6OOO to Governor Loch’s salary for 1888.
The seedy peers of England, it appears, are coming
out en masse, and it would he a lasting stain on
the escutcheon of Victoria if they were allowed to
pay their own bills at a hotel. Australia, it is
argued, owes something to England in return for
the hospitality shown to the “representative
Australians” who visited the Indian and Colonial
Exhibition, notwithstanding the fact that England
did her best to square the debt by levying £45 for
repairs to Her Majesty’s stove, and then charging
Victoria's guests two guineas apiece for a third-
rate dinner in a royal palace. Somehow or other,
however, the Herald utterly ignores the only
tenable argument in favour of this expensive
hospitality to the globe-trotting gallants of Eng-
land—that unless they are entertained at Govern-
ment nouee the-e is every chance that they may
be reduced to perform shady tricks for a liveli-
hood, or else camp in the streets and become
chargeable on the parish. Australian hotelkeepers
do not care so much as they once did about the
patronage of the House of Peers, Only a few
months ago a reckless colonist purchased the
shirts of a British nobleman in an auction-room,
and as soon as his landlady deciphered the lordly
cognomen inscribed on the tail of the garments
she fired him out under a mistaken idea that
he was tbe hereditary legislator in person. The
proposed outlay of £6OOO will doubtless save many
a hard-working widow from being cleaned out by
peers whose ancestors date from the Conquest,
and then left to end her days in a benevolent in-
ptiMU’nr.n-d, with this cha itable purpose in Mew,
he cxi e i is possibly justifiable.
CORRESPONDENCE
Merton (Oiago) : No; the wi man^suffrage
question fimply resolves itself into an efier on the part of
the short-haired women to “ boss” the long-ha r d men
Home-Ruler (Balmaio): That you object in our ‘P, ijn Eng-
lish ’ column of last week, under the head ‘Bre d tor Ming-
land—The Centennial Fund,’ to the following sentence -
‘Australia has helped Ireland in her famines—she has even
helped the land of the leprous Chinese,’ we do not wonder
But ‘it s not our funeral.’ We wrote, ‘ Australia has helped
Ireland m her famines: Australia has helped India in her
famices—she has,’ &c. The intelligent compositoris enfirelv
to blame. He bears the name of Castlereagh Randolph
Salisbury Balfour Jessop O Gorman Boyne Bui). What can
you expect? He has since been discharged with ignominy
;. ..AO. (Waterloo): The net tonnage of the Great Eastern
is 13,344 tons ; the gross tonnage, 18,91.5 tors. The Annive:-
sary Day of the colony of Victoria is identical, of course
with the day of separation from N.S.W TB. (Gunda®ai) ;
One verse is enough— “ ' "
‘ One Saturday eye in October,
And standing all in a erupts
in front of ’s hotel Was scene
Brady s Veriety Trupe.’
And you state that this ’potery’ will be ths forerunner of
many more ‘ stitch.’ Go to bed.... J.M. (Casino): The ones
tion of Protection or Freetrade may mean nothing to you
but it means a lotto a good many of your fellow-colonists’
We freely admit that land nationalisation is of more import-
ance than tariffs, but under the present Freetrade reoime
which make 3 N.S.W. so utterly dependent cm England Vast
tracts of land are drifting into English hands, aDd if reform
were attempted the claims of the foreign landlord would
probably be enforced niter the manner of the claims of the-
English bondholders in Egypt. Protection, which will make
N S.W. less and less dependent on England, has a lot to do-
with the land difficulty M.J. (Casino): A miner's-right
doesn't entitle you to shoot kangaroos on a squatter's run
nor does it entitle you to shoot the squatter, either In fact'
there is no shooting in the case . ..H.S.D. (Sydney)- Tmr
Bulletin is not meant as a medium for insane joke* about?
Sheol and tiiiors Cockney: Screed received with thanksA
....A Subscriber (Wagga): Your suggestion that the toast-
of the banking institutions of the colony ’ should bo coupled'
with the name if some eminent bushranger is probably-
meant for sarcasm, and very poor sarcasm at that The-
■pawnshops of Australia,’ coupled with the name of
Habigle, would be a lot nearer the mark.... Old lland-
‘ Con victoria ’ was a Bulletin jibe, and has been"
calmly appropriated by a newspaper which never saidi
anything original in its life H.H.O. (Sydney)- Good
enough to make us wish they were better, and not bad
enough to make us wish you were dead W.H.O • Don’t
send us any more poetry about I’arkes. We are dangerous
when roused Hardup (Queensland) : Only GO per silent
per annum. You must have struck a mighty accommodating
money-lender....R.T. (Yass) : Out of a sincere regard for
your welfare we would rather not help you to take odds on
any sculler. We might give you the address of a book-
maker—and then he might take your coin and levant
Even if Parkes, Henry Parkes, rowed Beach, we'd not lay
three to one on William Honi: Just come outside and
listen to yourself :
When a hard-working woman stoops to folly,
And finds too late that men betrays,
The only way to soothe h-sr solemncholy
Is to take in washing and mend her ways.
Aren’t you ashamed of yourself after that ?... Spendthrift/
(Sydney): These are the first proceedings against the indi-
vidual you mention. One or two others were prosecuted andi
fined, but they were mostly small speculators Oyster
Johnnie: Thanks....A. Smith (Collingwood) : Have we
lived to see Shakespeare degraded to such purposes by a
Smith?....Two Years' Subscriber (Wellington, M Z ) ■ In
our opinion the attempted bribery has nothing to do with,
the case since A. let his horse run knowing what was going
on. At the same time, we think that B ought to be kiekeeb
100 times Lucius (Warae) : Your gas is pre-eminently
10ca1.... J. 8.8. (Strathfield): We haven't any ambition to-
give a new name to N.S.W. at present. It seems to have
been named quite enough... ,R. Smith : Judging from your-
story of the squatter of royal descent you haven’t yet learnt,
the art of cursing. A curse needs to be condensed and em-
phatic, and your loose-jointed anathema will never get
tome... .Mancumensis : Just so! Thanks, awfully...
A.L. : There are almost exactly twice as many Irish as
Scotch in the English army....An Irishman (Melbourne)-
The action of the police who exercised brutal violence ini
order ti force a way through an unarmed crowd for a
Government official was, no doubt, justified by ‘ law ' for at
present there is law in Ireland to justify almost anything
which the Tory party chocse to attempt. But if a law were-
passed in Melbourne by which any rnan blocking the
thoroughfare and refusing to ‘move on’ could be at once-
murdered at the discretion of ary passing constable, we
fancy (your deep-rooted regard for the sacredness of the
statutes wruld be somewhat shaker. It is not law but jus-
tice that is worthy of respect, and justice docs not regard
random slaughter as a fair punishment for men who simply
block the way tf an officious Jack-in-office T.II. (Wagga) -
Next week .. FS. : Next week, probably Ouelnhland •
Why net call N.S.W. “Brown" as a compliment to Her
Gracious? W.B.C. :We are glad to hoar that “the Prince-
of Mom co is awaiting with anxiety the result cf Parkes’
endeavour to change the name of the elder colony, N 8 W
to ‘ Australia,' as, in the event of hisp oving successful, the
Prince has determined to re-name his principality ‘ Europe.’ ”
.. ..Park- s' S, inpathiser i Tenter fie Id) : By-and-bv’e Win
Ward (Maldon, Vic.): Many thanks! Yen did riot say-
which magazine... J.O.C. (Albary, W.A.): The only plan
by which you could convince the colonial authorities of the-
effectiveness of your weapon of wholesale destruction-
guaranteed to slaughter 50,000 at a single shot —would be to-
invite all the. alleged politicians, Governors, members of
Parliament, Civil servants, and Impelial officials generally,,
from each of the five Australian colonies—you might also
include N A. and Tasmania—and annihilate the whole boil-
ing. You wruld not only prove the i ffectiveness of the
‘ apparatus,’ but look at the good you would do ' Student
(Riverview): Yes, tobacco is good for you. It will probably
till you. and if would be better for yru to die than t )
write alleged poetry.... Anti-Flageilator : Will attend....
WN. (Melb.): Certainly. The moment other avenues o
labour are opened by the establishment of man .factu
there is n-stant relief experi-nead in already-existing-
branchesof industry. Competition being diverted into the-
channels of protected industry, wages rise proportionately
alt round. The cheapness of a thing docs not make -
readily aecessib’e. The poorest countries in the world are-
those which sell the lowest-priced goods and circulate the
smallest-valued coinage Where money is plentiful and)
widely distributed, the standard value of everything is high-
and the lowest coin in circulation is one of considerable pur
chasing power in a poor community. Did you ever live cm
the diggings?.... Honi: If you cut Lord Lansdbwne dnwm
a few feet he would perhaps be negotiable.-.. .D.J, A. (Car-
coar): Will you pay “exscs" if we. publish your little
“screed?" Twopence per Tram: Why should not the
"s'avey" have her little picnic ? This is an alleged age of en-
igli■ ai ment, and we live atthe Antipodes Hitherto the other
side has had all the fun ; it’s time the tables were turned ..
Refractory Ore: We don’t know all the particulars of the-
caEe. Perhaps the editor is a Chinaman, and stands up for
a countryman as a point of honour, or perhaps the proprie-
tor is a Chinaman—who knows? Thomas Owen : We
have, with'.much prayer and trembling, meandered piously
through your Scriptural homily, but cannot for the life of us
make out what you are driving at....P00r Paddy (Silver-
ton) : It is to be feared that people are only made patriotic
through the medium of the stomach. Pinch the capitalist's
pccket or the workman's stomach and you have a
patriot W.A.G : ‘ That the revocation of the for-
feiture was really brought about by the defend-
dants father backed up by the influence of one-
or two members of the Assembly,’ is, unfortunately,
in Australia, an incident of by ro means uncommon occur-
rence... .Miner (Ravenswood): Very like a whale, indeed!'
... Millchester: Afraid the information is rather too
meagre: will, however, see what can be done I). (N.Z ) :
It was a compositor’s error, and we cannot tell how it-
slipped in. The great recommendation of the Hemy George
system of taxation on land values is that it does not tax in-
dustry ; it exempts industry, and seeks to restore to labowc
by taxation the unlawfully appropriated proceeds cf labour.
.. Hedge Scholar: Rwht, sonny A. V.S. (Surry IIills)i::
When next you write a metrical description tf the Cup-
don’t do it in Sunday-school snufflebuster hymnal metre*
Did you ever bead ’ How we heat the Favourite ?. .Chutnee
Good verses, but “ England" is an old idea Solicitor:
Many thanks, will at least make extracts P.S.: We con-
sider that Mr. Mayers did a great public service in attacking
the Port Jackson Go., and that he is deserving of popular
sympathy. The result of the trial will teach lleselton and-
Co. a smart ard long-needed lesson.. John Stephen (Bal-
larat): You seem to think it a screaming joke to speak of
the possibility of the present race of N.S.W. muddlers pro-
voking war with Victoria. Perhaps you have forgotten a
time, rather more than 20 yeai-s ago, when the Victorian.
Government sent police and volunteers to the border to be
ready for war with the mother colony. History repeats-
itself... ,P.G. (Melb.): Yes, O. B. is the same man.
....New Briton (Bathurst): Haynes's motion for the
neutralisntio of Australia is good sentiment, but in poe-
tical politics it is unspeakable foolishness. He might as
well move for the aboli'ion of hell or of original sin. A'is
trdia can neve- - i-eutrabs -d so long as ehe is C’nrec ei
with England \ I en T nglai.d go- s to w«r we muse t
our chance.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Ttt ka.tr t Eoyal—'"La MascotJe”.. .. p. X4
i ritkimon Theatre,— 11 As You Like Tt” ■■
Alhambra Music Hall—Sacred Concert
Alhambra Music Hall—Minstrelsy
Domain—Pain's Fireworks - ■■
Her Majestys Theatre.—“My Partner”.....
Academy—Macoabe
When the skeeter fixes on Mr. George
La'h Gordon’s rose at midnight’s solemn hour,
and won’t let him go to sleep, he rises and writes
a drama. “ The Marie Mystery,” which started
on a prosperous career at Sydney Gaiety last
Saturday is one of the rather creditable little
things which he has dashed 01T under these cir-
cumstances. In the very first scene a dead-broke
gambler deserts his wife, and retreats with her
ca3h down a secret passage just as a dirty,
grizzled old circus-acrobat is coming up, and
when he is brained with a candlestick, and poi-
sened by a doctor, and his remains are hidden in
an o’d ruin, and his wife commits suicide, and his
win-brother arrives suddenly from abroad, and
t he doctor gets out by a window and comes in
again by the door, and the circus acrobat takes
refuge in an almshouse, we feel that we are get-
ting on very nicely indeed. And a nice old alms-
house pauper the acrobat makes. He sings about
murder and suicide and hangings and sudden
death while he i3 watering his cabbages, and he
plans embezzlement and perjury among the sum-
mer flowers; and his colleague in vice, the doctor,
worries ipocacuauha to the “Dead March in Saul,"
and basks in the sun while concocting schemes for
poundiEg the pauper fiat, end thinks how
happy ho will be when the almshouse
clowns is buried, and the hearse comes back.
But at last the pair meet in the old ruin where the
body was deposited, and the dead man gets up
and comes out of the window in a plug-hat, and
then the memories of his past evil deeds rise and
spike the doctor’s gun, and he is knocked kite-
high, and goes to roost on the tree of life and
watch Jot dan roll. Mr. George Lash Gordon
plays the central part of the scheming old botanical
assassin, and as a sample of ancient,
unshavea vice, and bottomless treachery in a
stove-ia bat, of smothered ferocity, irony, inso-
lence, greed, and a whole continent of emsedness,
he is excellent. Messrs. Leston and Boothman
trudge round with marked abi'ity in minor charac-
ters, and Mr. Baker also trudges round a lot. The
ladies’ parts are comparatively small, but the act-
ing of Miss Lily Dampier, who !s at her best and
prettiest, makes Marjorie Sorrel an object of pub-
lic interest. “ A Treaty of Peace ” is reported to
be in preparation.
# * # *
On Monday night last, at Sydney Opera
House, our fine, manly, American friend, Major
Dane, delivered his farewell lecture — 11 Cor stanti-
nople : the Goal of Russian Ambition.” A “grand
testimonial benefit” ought to have been backed
up by a larger house. The audienco was enthu-
siastic, certainly, hut of what avail is the heating
together of palms if the shekels in the inoney-bag
have to huddle up In a corner to keep each other
warm? Major Dane is a “live” lecturer de-
scribing a country in which he has trave It d .he
pictures to you not only the appearance of the
streets and the deess of the people, but he enters
the houses, and presents to you a photograph of
the race, their mode of life, their aspirations,
and whither these aspirations are leading them.
The lecturer was not alwayslogical For instance,
he spoke of the high standard of moraUty pre-
vailing among the Turks; how they rover stole
nor swore, never lied nor drank, how attentive
they were at prayer-time, how fond of pure water,
&c. ; contrasting them with Christians all through,
to the decided advantage of the Turk, especially
in their manner of conducting prisons, expedition
in law esses, equality of laws—and then, m st un-
expectedly he arrived at the concl usion that when
they have given up catling muzzein and have re-
hung the Christian hells in the mosques, and jc-
dedicated them to their former faith, what a fine
miral people the Turks will become ! Possibly.
Religion, of almost any kind, is a very fine Ihix g,
when it is not washed down by rum. As a rr alter
of fact, the so-cal'ed observers of Christianity arc
the most drunken races on the face of the earth.
Like most cld soldiers, the Major was inclined
to dwell overmuch on the wholesale murder busi-
ness - the ancient warrior usually imagines you can
gauge the prosperity of a people by the means they
have at command for slaughtering their fellows.
However, as already indicated, the lecturer views
his fellows with the kindly ope of a humanitarian,
and not as through the small end of a telescope.
We have had men on the Australian platform who
go about the world after their own fads. One
man thought the earth was a huge cock-shop
created for his benefit; another viewed it as a
large slaughter-house of which he was inspector ;
a third, the latest, imagined that his metier was
a bowing-down before generals and royal dukes,
or hooraying for the Queen, doncherknow, and
Binging “Rule Britannia” every time a donkey
brayed defiance. These are harmless crotchets,
but when a man imagines that Australians are in-
terested in such bosh, he simply spoils “ biz.” for
the next good man —we mean Major Dane—that
comes along. Miss Amy Sherwin— a fellow-pas-
senger from America of the Major’s—sang three
simple ballads charmingly. The lecturer waB in-
troduced to the audience by Hon. E. Barton on
D8half of the testimonial committee in a neat
speech.
# # # *
There was the blight of a great sorrow on
George Elgnold’s new show at Her Majesty’s
Theatre (Sydney) last Saturday. “My Partner,”
is, taking it all round, as good a drama
as any white man need ask to see, but
the audience kept gapirg at the empty
chairs in which they had expected to see the
manly forms of two cart-horse individuals who
had that day gone out in the rain, half naked and
without shame or sense enough to carry umbrellas,
and pulled a couple of boats so fast that one of
the pullers got sick. As far as wo could learn, one of
thepairhad stated thathe couldpull faster than the
othor, and tho other had said that ho would see
him hanged first, and thon they went and did it,
and didn’t get back in time, and when the
performance waa over, and the audience had
received good value for their money, they
commenced to yell “Swindle!” because the
saullei s hadn't ccme. Probably they didn't come
because they reckoned the Governor's seat
wasn’t good enough for them to sit in.
Even the beauties of the opening scene,
whero the lonely pub. sits in solemn silence
on the mountain’s brew amid the wild Californian
sierras, could not soothe the excited multitude;
they were only slightly attracted by Goorgc Rig-
nold’a digger, by far the finest character he has yep
enacted in Sydney ; they looked superciliously at
the monkeyish ruffian with the dirt-coloured tuft
on his chin, who wanted to marry the daughter of
the public-house on the mountain-top, and they
only awoke to excitement in the pathetic scenu
where the broken hearted miner comes slowly down
kfV? make it up with his dead mate, and
sitting down beside the body in the chair asks him
to shake hands. But the body takes no notice,
Then Ihe digger turns to go, but with anew burst
of emotion he comes back again and grasps the
hand of the deceased, and the deceased— repre-
sented by Mr. Brian Darley—doubles up with the
sudden shake. He wasn t very much account
Avhile be was alive, and he threw himself into
16^ dlculous , poßitions while he was dying,
but the diggers resolve to hang somebody for him
all the same, and the catasirophe is only
averted by luck and a Chinaman, Mr,
George Rigno.d extracts a mountain of
pathos out of the character of Jce Saunders,
and plays the noble digger to perfection. Mr. J. R.
Greville is another unalloyed success, and Mr. J.
Tolano makes the one and only attractive China-
man whom we have seen cn the stage. Mr. Hall
is a stiff and unnatural hotelkeeper, and Mr.
Isaacson, as ths leadirg murderer, is miserably
automatic through three acts, and rather good in
the fourth, Miss Kate Bishop pi»ys with unusual
ease and grace as the heroine, and when she
comes back from roostiog on the damp hills
and brings with her an unaccountable infant,
she does her best to tone down the author’s
tendency to too much realism, If Beach and
Hanlancan be kept out of it in future “My Part-
ner” is sure to have a long run.
# # #' #
The fag-end of the stentorian Bill Hollo-
way’s season at Sydney Criterion is being filled in
with a series of revivals, of which the latest Is
Shakespeare’s pastoral comedy, “As You Like
If.” It is called “pastoral” because thero is a
quantity of grass in it, and if the grass were
taken out it wouldn’t be pastoral. The leading
male character, that gentle youth Orlando, was
enacted by Mr. Holloway himself, and words of
solemn import issued from his head. Miss Essio
Jenyns, as Rosalind, supplied a long-felt
want in tho community, and the audience
testified their admiration by a whole wag-
gon-load of flowers. The s’ow and malevo-
lent scrunch of Charles the Wreflier was repre-
sented by Mr. Norman, who was also the exiled
Duke driven out to grass; Mr. R. Stewart, Mr
Inman, and Mr. Dobson played Jacques, Touch-
stone, and the other seedy Duke, respectively,
the first being very successful, and the other two
a little less si; and Miss Nita Steele made a
charming figure as Celia. For our own pa*t, we
prefer a comedy without so many Dukes in it, but
perhaps Shakespeare was rather young when he
wrote “As You Like It.” As he grows older he
may possibly improve.
* * #• #
Tho new opera season at Sydney Royal
commenced on Saturday with that good old
stand-by, “La Mascot to.” The evil day when
the beautiful, yet idiotic, “Glou-glou" will
founder amid the battered wrecks of rhythm is
still afar off, and so long as that duet keeps on its
feet of melody “La Mascotte” promises to
flourish. The antics of the little circus duke
may bring royalty into contempt, but nobody
seems to care, and if the performing bear aspect
of the military forces in this opera grates on tho
feelings of the prominent bread-waggon officers of
N.S.W., they know better than to protest.
Thanks to Mr. William Elton, the present duke
is even smaller, more ridiculous, and more gone
in the legs than most of his predecessors, but
that only enhances his popularity and makes
his success more conspicuous. Miss Maggie
Moore, as the ragged peasant girl of
the first act, who lets her turkey-gobblers
stray while she sings duets with a nice young
man, is the same universal favourite as of old,
and as the disgusted countess of the latter scenes
she is equally effective. Miss Colbourne-Baber,
as Fiametta, Bings a little better, and does not act
any worse Ihan on former occasions. Mr.
Knight Aston’s tenor is In excellent condition,
and Mr. Woodfield's song, “Love is Blind,”
is rendered in a manner worthy of such a gem.
j The chorus, too, is well-drilled, and isn’t
embarrassed with its own feet as so many choruses
are, and the upholstery part of the show is reliable
and cheering. When the duke wants to sit down
the chairs don’t give beneath him, and when he
faints at seeing his daughter in the arms of Pippo
he has a good background to faint against. These
small details all help to make up a success.
** * *
On Thursday evening Miss Lily Dampier
took her first benefit in Sydney, at the Gaiety,
when ‘As You Like It” was produced. The
little theatre was densely crowded, and Governor
Car In g ton smiled his di s ■ iD guishe d sm' le in a promi •
neat seat. He was evidently interested, and
when a fly settled on his nose he forgot to
paralyse the an'inal till it was too late. Miss
Dampier took the part of Rosalind, and we took
somebody’s new silk umbrella. The character was
one in which the yourg actress had already
distinguished herself, and the aud'ence tes-
tified their approval of her performance by
cheering till the roof of the establishment threa-
tened to lift; A mass of floral trophies, bouquets,
and wreaths, and a splendid diamond necklace
rolled in upon her when she appeared before the
curtain, and Mr. Dampiet adjourned his character
of Jacques for a moment to return thanks. Mr.
Boothman received a considerable amount of
applause as Orlando, and Touchstone was played
by Mr. Leston with a vigour that would have
gratified Shakespeare if the dramatist hadn t been
detained by influenza.
#* # #
Mr. Frank Smith is beginning to take
liberties, at Sydoey Alhambra, with the toffsof the
Southern Hemisphere, and he had better stop
before he goes too far. “The Aurorais
a good enough farce, and Alf. James is certainly
the best individual in if, but when Alf. represents
an individual called Foymarktartquong there is
bloodshed locuung. This friendly warning is
about all we have to utter tin's week. Miss
Florence Scholor’s ballad, “ Call mo back again,”
is the best feature of the first part, and Florence
herself is ai pretty as the- ballad. Also, Miss
Beatrice JamßS has a nice warble about “Nellie
raking the hay,” and the rest ot the programme
is gaol, except where Perry Ryan make a third-
rate effort to wrestle with a fifth-rate song, and
goes down in a heap in the attempt.
#* # *
One of the nicest things we know of in
this world is a benefit, and Mr. G. W. Anson had
such a largo one at Sydney Royal last Friday that
he had to take the money home in a wheelbarrow.
The programme consisted of two little comedies
“A Clerical Error” and “Courtship." The
“ Error ” wasn’t quite so bad as that of a parson
we once knew, who had a rollicking night down
town with money cadged from the plate, and
broke all the windows for three miles round, and
was finally arrestod while serenading a female
teacher with a trombone, but it was pretty nearly
as amusing. Miss Myra Kemble and Mr. H. N.
Douglas lent their assistance to the Royal Com-
pany, and, altogether, Mr. Anson had a good
time, and didn’t get home till considerably a m,
## # #
Cogill Brothers have been putting polish
on their show at £t. George’s Hall, Melbourne, un-
til at the present time it is more recherche ihan a
vice regal smile. The lirsb half is a tonoy affair
entirely—a scene cf languid luxury and graceful
confusion. There is an air of high-bred beauty
about the girls which impresses the mashers in
front with a certain sense of being in polite
society. Jf a fellow ventured to wiDk at one of
these long-trained bitsef loveliness, he would,
probably, be turned into a pillar of salt, or scorffed
by two tlie-beaxs It is real pleasant to note the
rapid growth of aestheticism in variety business,
and to find that “culchaw ” pays for cultivating.
The Coghills are thriving .ike the new-born babes
of people in reduced circumstances. Last week,
Miss Ada Walker and Signor Paladini warbled
sweetly in the opening. Fred. Rollinson and other
talent did a turn later on, but new programmes
and styles are introduced at brief intervals. As
for the illustrious brethren, they work like niggers
all the while, with howling success.
** # #
Nothing in the way of novelty at tho
leading Melbourne houses. “School for Scandal,”
neatly play cl and expensively put on, is attract-
ing sassiety to the Bijou. Mr. Brough—who has
been through the Valley of the Shadow of Death,
and emerged, as live as ever, at the other end-
hopes to pop up again as Sir Peter before the
comedy peters out, but meantime Mr. Cathcart is
iilling the position with good, old-time effect.
The Opera House constellation keeps a glittering,
and “Sunny South” is finishing a respectable
fortnight at the Royal. A drama, with the
promising title of “First Class,” makes its first,
appearance here on Saturday. Gilbert amd Sulli-
van operas bring plenty of s uff to the
Princess's pay boxes. “ Patience ” last Saturday
gave Mr. Duncan Young a show in the capaoity
of Grosvenor, but that slender yourg man failed
to knock up a big score. Mr. Leamane put more
style into the Duke of Dunstable than some pre-
vious dooks, and Miss Braham got along success-
fully. Just here it occurs to us that Nellie
Stewart will be a warmer favourite than ever
when she re appears at Christmas.
## # #
When Mr. Simonsen’s opera company
returns to Melbourne Alexandra they will do
English operas in choice Italian, starting with
“ Maritana.” Lazzarini ought 10 fetch ’em in
“ Si, tal Soldoto Letmefallo.’’
## # #
Poor Phil. Day, the comedian, who is now
lying in the Alfred Hospital, Melbourne, was born
in “the beautiful city called Cork.” Those who
saw Phil, as the Doge of Venice, in “Estrella,”
wi 1 never forgot the mine of gag which he used to
work in that part. One night a case of cigars
was thrown to him from the dress circle while he
was presiding in court over that very remarkable
trial. “Ah, here’s another case, ’ said Phil ; “I
must try it.” And he lit up amidst the applause
of the house.
## # *
Mr. E. Lewis Scott denies that he is to
localise Sydney Theatre Royal Pantomime this
year. For which relief may the great Confucius
be praised for evermore !
** # #
Miss Kate Alma is about to start with a
comedy-drama company for West Maitland, Tam-
worth, Glen lones, and other benighted regions.
The Grant Family, a show of human curiosities,
opens shortly in Market-street, Sydney. Signor
Billgreeno is now plain Mr. Verdi. He was last
beard of in a heavy, five-act drama at Brisbane
Royal. Smith, DeaD, and Harvey’s Star Min-
strels have been doing good business at Brisbane.
The Lynch Bellringers were recently swept down
the Inangahua River (N Z.), and were only saved
by the coach bringing up against a boulder. The
talented combination roosted all night in the
middle of the stream. James MacMahon’s “ Yum-
Yum ” Opera Company are now carrying their
heathen Nanki-Poo through N.Q. George
Leitch is drawing immense houses at Wel-
lington (N.Z), with “Harbour Lights.” He
drew the Governor and Lady Jervois the other
night, also Sir Julius Vogel.and a lot more swells.
Julius is rather hard to draw, owing to the kinky
condition of his legs. Minnie Palmer is still play-
ing “ My Sweetheart,” but Louisa’s luvin’ hus-
band has been cut out. This is very mean.
Rector : “ It is interesting to think that the Star
of Bethlehem will soon appear to us again.” Miss
F (more of a playgoer thin a churchwoman):
“ Really, Mr. Prior, I don’t know who she is ;
and what does she play in ? ” The Jersey Lily’
has been “ had ” for £2. A man called on her
with a bit of paving-stone rolled up in paper and
collected 10 dollars carriage. When the parcel
was opened the Lily said “ Damn.”
Messrs. H. H. Warner and Co.
The task of obtaining vigorous health and length
of days has ever been tbe subject of enlightened
minds. Yet medicine is probably the only science
which has not kept progress with the march of
civilization, since the records of its first profes-
sors were for ever wrapt in the flight of ages past,
destroyed with the archives of bygone genera-
tions. Of late, however, powerful cures
have supplanted many traditional remedies
of the schools, and of these the Safe re
medies of Mess s. H. 11. Warner and Co. take a
formost rank. On divers occasions wc have pub-
lished powerful tsetimon'es bearing on the efficacy
of Warner’s Safe Cure, tho great elixir and kid-
ney specific, and Warner's Safe Diabetes Cure
the specific for this dread complaint To-day we
have the pleasure of chronicling the arrival of a
representative of the house, who has come toNew
South Wales for the purpose of introduce og tho
firm’s new remedies, comprising Warner’s Sti*e
Rheumatic Cure, Warner’s Safe Asthma
Cure, and Warner's Safe Nervine, the
l’tter being described a a a rowerfel r errs
tonic, into these colonies. There remedies
ere the only proprietary medicines ever £&notion si
by the German Government, and after %, critical
analysis when found free from injurious e’emrata
were added to the pharmaceutical Lab of the Em
pire. The firm’s representative has just arrivec
from Queensland, in which colony over 80,000
pamphlets explanatory of symptoms, on diet and
disease, with a number of colonial testimonials
were mailed and distributed. Arrangements are
nowbelrg made for popularizing the new medi-
cines on a similar effective scale in New South
Wales. The firm’s representative, we may add.
for a number of years pertained to the fourth
Estate,


Pepper
And
Salt
Sir Henry Loch has been exhorting Young
Australia never to forget the great and glorious
island which gave him his fat billet. At a Geelong
spread, “He trusted that they would have the
same affection for the Old Country as their fore-
fathers had, and that they would seek to
strengthen the ties which bound Außtral'a to that
country. He hoped they would remember how Eng-
land fostered and protected the colonies during their
early years." Of course we shall remember all
this. Why, our first colonists came out under the
special protection of British troops, and their love
for the Old Country Is hereditary in their off-
spring—
The Melbourne l’resbyteiy, which has
put up so many petitions in the past for deliver-
ance from floods, ague, and horned cattle, has
now taken a wider sweep, and proposes to pray
for the recovery of the Crown Prince of Germany.
Brother Balfour, whose faith is of the kind that
could shift a caw out of a crockery establishment,
moved :
That the Assembly appoint the first Sabbath in Decem-
ber as a day of prayer for God's special mercy on the Prince
Imperial of Germany, her Majesty’s son-in-law, now dan-
gerously ill, and for his family ; also for the prolongation of
peace amongst the nations of Europe. That communica-
tions be sent to other churches suggesting that prayers for
the same object be ottered on the same day by their congre-
gations.
As far as we can make out from this, Brother
Balfour proposes to pray chiefly on account of
the patient’s mother-in-law. This may explain
why the Presbytery, when it wants to tackle a
case of cancer, should neglect the patients in the
local hospitals to take a long shot at a hoarse,
manslaying foreigner 16,000 miles away. But, in
one respect, the Church makes a woeful display
of cowardice. Long ago a challenge was issued
to the clergy to concentrate all their praying horse-
power on one single infirmary, and then compare
the results achieved in that institution with those
In the unprayed-for establishments, and they re-
plied, In horror, that the scheme savoured of blas-
phemy, And yet, It \is recorded, the prophet
Elijah backed himself to pray single-handed
against 400 priests of Baal, a" d won in a canter, j
with twelve barrels of water to the good, but his
degenerate descendants will take no such risks. !
In the present case we will back the disease —if it j
is real cancer—against the Church. If the Mel-
bourne Presbytery are prepared to test their
abilities on a local case we will produce a patient
suffering from the same complaint as that with
which the German prince is afflicted, and he can
be prayed for on the premises for any sum up to
£20,000. Money and cancer will be put up at
The Bulletin office within one hour after the
acceptance of this challenge ; the proceedings
will be watched by a joint committee of parsons
and surgeons, and prayer can be offered up for
any number of hours dally for a period of six
months, at the end of which time tli9 stakes will
be paid over. If the Church is willing to back
its faith with a solid bet a favourable opportunity
here presents itself. Melbourne Presbytery has
plenty of money.
* * *
Alas for the vanished larks of the red
Australian past! Away back in the red-shirt
days of Ballarat, long before the sharebroker
learned to go to chu'ch and hosannah in a clean-
biled rag, when men drank eaoh other’s healths in
buckets, and clumped about in big hide boots,
when the hotel was a plain “ pub.” without any
frills, and when there was boiled mutton for din-
ner instead of a quantity of fearful French cackle
slung in at the end of a swell bill of fare, there
lived a Yankee stage-coach driver named Brad-
ley. He was one of the fastest, loudest, and
hardest-swearing men who ever travelled over
mud and stones for Cobb and Co., and when he
wasn’t driving, or swearing, or eating, or sleep-
ing it was safe to bet that he was gambling. On
one occasion he started a game of euchre at Bal-
larat just half-an-hour before the time fixed for
leaving, and when the guard looked In to tell him
all was ready, Bradley enveloped him with curses
and drove him out. Then there was an interlude
of 30 minutes, and 42 passengers sat in the big,
lumbering vehicle and waited, while the echoes of
Bradley’s profanity were heard faintly from
HER LAST PLACE.
BRIDGET: “I WAS IN MY LASHT PLACE TWO YEARS.”
MRS. POTTSPOINT: “INDEED! AND WHERE WAS THAT?”
BRIDGET: “IN DARLINGHURST GAOL, MUM."
within. He was losing. The guard screwed
up his courage at length, and put in
his voice once more, and Bradley rose up and
stated excitedly through his nose that if that
dash dashed etcetera, etcetera, etcetera,
didn't clear out he would be blanked all the way
to thingammy. Another long pause followed, and
at last Bradley came oW ml, profane, and dead-
broke, and the coach disappeared in a cloud of
dust down the road. All through that long night-
ride the driver howled with rage at his losses,
and the vehicle was most of the time flying four
feet in the air, and when Geelong was reached
next day, an hour ahead of contract time, all the
passengers had bean fired out except one. He
was a sailor, and as the wrecked turn-out ente r ed
the town at a blazing gallop, he was dangling from
a strap outside, and yelling, “ Geerusalem, I'll
hold onter the blessed craft while there’s a plank of
her left 1" But, as we already mentioned, those
good old days are forever gone, and we shed a
silent tear over the larks of the vanished past.
* .
We have been kindly supplied with a new
idea for the Centenary, and amid the ceaseless
j scrunoh of centennial idiocy and the slow, aggra-
! vating grind of centennial grovel—amid the yellow
glare of mendacity and the knock-kneed curse of
I the Parkes’ collecting-bag passed round by men of
, leathery oheek—amid the roar of politicians with
straws in their hair from last night’s drunk, all
1 wanting to bolt each othor on the brains—it
comes with a gladdening sense of calm relief.
The new scheme leaves out all the speeches and
the portentous fuss, also the boat-race and the
banquet, and the rest of the bitter woes and the
exasperating cussedness of human pride, and re-
places them with a nice bath and a pleasant,
salubrious faneral. Early in the morning of the
great anniversary the whole N.S.W. Ministerial
party is to march out with Parkes in the van and
Abigail whooping up the rear guard, and take its
way to South Head, while the Opposition, led by
the lugubrious figure of G. R. Dlbbs, marches
along the opposite shore to the rocky pillar at the
other side of the harbour entrance. Then, amid a
| burst of melody from Sydney Liederta'el, a eignal-
| gun will go off, and they will all jump over, and,
j twirling around as they go, will disappear in the blue
ocean. Any member who hesitates will be thrown
| over by the Liedertafel, and when the last politi-
cian has disappeared beneath the glassy tide, and
only 126 drifting hats mark the spot where the
owners went down to find out what the wild
waves were saying, a Government launch will
steam slowly over the spbt, with the Philharmonic
Sooiety singing the “ Dead March ” in the stern.
Bishop Barry in the bow, Cardinal Moran amid-
ship, and Dr. Jefferis in the caddy repeating the
“Burial Service at Sea.” Then, in future years,
the citizens of Sydney will come out in cabs to
shy banana skins on the graves of the Parliament
of 1887, and now and then a violinist with a
seven-and sixpenny fiddle will visit the spot and
play a tune above their bones, while the gay crab
l and the merry lobster claw their way over
the deceased members of the ’Ouse, and sit on
their heads, and indulge in pleasant snacks off
their funny-bones. We recommend this as a really
healthy Centenary, and among other advantages
it will give a wash to the bathless Marats of the
1 Assembly.
* * *
For that description of Imperial meanness
I which is calculated to steal away the human
brain commend us to a man with a German name
| who is in trouble just now over in New Zealand,
j A few weeks ago he was under repair in the
hospital, and. he whiled away the time by frater-
nising with the incurable in the next bunk. All
through the long, weary afternoons they used to
sit up and discourse, and after a while they came
to rely on each other, and the German showed his
new friend the place where the horse stepped on
him, while the man in the next bunk proved him-
self worthy of the confidence placed in him by ex-
pounding the details of hi 3 cancer. Finally, he
made a speaking trumpet of a newspaper, and
whispered across in a hoarse tone that he wanted
to die ; he was dog-tired of lying on the flat of
bis back in an infirmary, and if his friend, as soon
as he got out, would get him some reliable poison
which would finish him off in short order he
would be obliged. The German kindly promised
to get him something that would kill an elephant,
and then he lay down and cackled with inhuman
glee bene ith the blantcet, and said to himself,
“ What a teufel of a choke !” Next week he was
able to get about, and then he perpetrated a re-
volting lark on his unsuspecting neighbour. The
cancer-patient was a poor msn, and wanted to die
cheap. A philanthropist, or anyone with a sem-
blance of humanity in his flinty heart, would haa r e
given him a pennorth of Paris green and then
swiped him on the head with a brick, and
wouldn’t have charged him more than the actual
cost of the green and the brick, but the German
was a monster in human shape, and, like the
solitary bittern in the swamp, it was his day out
to groan. Ho cajoled his last £6 out of the incur-
able in the next bunk, and then he gave him
about two-pennorth of a beastly, coloured fluid
which only made him sick, and laughed as he
watched him trying to die, and not able to
manage it. Even the gentlemanly feelings of the
individual with the cancer gave way under this
Insult, and the German has “ gone up ” for twelve
months.
APPEAL TO PARKES.
We’re sorry, Parkes, to trouble you
With names for N.S.W. —
But, prithee, prick this bubble you
So stupidly have blown ;
’Twill never be “ Australia
Your scheme must end in failia—
The title of Regalia
Were better than your own.
Or, why not call ib “ Universe ? ”
. (And, don’t be to the tune averse
To which we set our puny verse—
We know it’s pretty lame).
At any rate, “ Australia ”
Is doomed to foolish failia ;
We have it, Parkes ! “ Injailia ”
Is just the very name.
It sounds a little Oaida-Uke ;
Would look well in a “leader ” like,
And each and every reader strike —
By Joam! it ought to go.
’Twould shut up opposition, dear,
And tefl of our condition drear
When Britain sent her mission here
A hundred years ago.
TO YOUNG AUSTRALIA.
Come listen to the story,
In verses be it sung,
Of all that England did for us
While Austral yet was young;
The dear old Mother Country
(God bless that gentle dame !)
With purpose grand did guard our land
When few h ad heard its name.
To toll cf her affection
Mere language surely fails —
She sent out men and women, too,
To work for New South Wales ;
The Union Jack of England,
The proudest of all flags,
Did proudly float o'er many a boat
That hither brought her lags.
The stones upon the margin
OC Botany’s blue Bay,
Could stones express themselves in words,
Would have a lot to say
In praise of England’s goodness
To each pcor pioneer,
Who came from thenoe, at her expense,
To this bright hemisphsre.
Van Dieman's Land shall never
Forget the tender ties
Wnlch bind her ta the Mother dear,
While spectres grim arise
Of a thousand buried horrors
Which, erstwhile, flourished there,
And the empty jail can tell a tale
Of England's fostering care.
Can stout old Peter Lalor
No stlrriog yarn unfold
Of England’s kind “ protection” in
The roaring age of Gold ?
Although she ne’er defended
Our shores from foreign foe,
Her soldiers slew just one or two
Brave miners, years ago.
And who has sent us Gov'nors
But England—who, indeed,
Has found those useful gentlemen
For whom tre find the “ greed? ”
Those tokens of affection
Bring comfort to our hearts—
We know no fears while Barts and Peers
Come out to boss th»se parts.
Then always love dear England—
This is the prayer we pray—
Your fathers mostly loved it, though,
They didn’t care to stay;
And as for our “ old fami.ies ”
What thinking man can doubt
That, rich and great,*they love the State
Which paid “Pa’s” passage out.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Hanlan takes tens in boots.
Attorney-General Kingston, of South Aus-
tralia, is a volunteer corporal.
Henri Rochefort relates that “ Woolloo-
mooloo was originally the name of a black gin.”
The Czar has got the rheumatiz. He
caught cold lately. He hasn’t felt the warmth of
a Nihilist bomb for quite several days.
Barrister Drake edits the new Brisbane
weekly, the Boomerang. For the future
Thadeus O'Kane is not going to monopolise all the
libel actions.
“ Our William ” was lately made the
father of yet another daughter. Beach is now
invested with full authority to spank a family of
eight—five daughters and three sons.
Alfred Allen considers that “the way
private bars are conducted” is sufficient to
“shock the reason.” O.her things “ shock the
reason,” too. Some “poems," for instance.
The Pall Mall Gazette commences an
article with the remark: “ What a fcollsh fellow
the Attorney-General for N.S.W. seems to ue.
The bray of the sonorous ass has evidently madi
itself heard over 10,000 miles of intervening water.
The secret of Joe Chamberlain’s sudden
secession from the English Radicals has leaked out
He is more or less “ engaged ” to a Tory female of
high degree, and will, maybe, become Lord
Chamberlain before he dies, deeply regretted
by the Primrose League.
Minister Fisher, who holds the portfolio
for Education in the present N.Z Ministry, Is a
self-made man, having graduate! at the com-
positor’s oase and worked himself by the aid of
Pitman on to Hansard staff. His brother is a
compo. on the S.M. Herald.
Johnny Fawkner, who, if not the founder
of Melbourne, was at least a pioneer of that city,
landed with his father —who was an exile—from
the ship Calcutta on the shores of Port Phillip on
10th Oct., 1803, and by a coincidence returned to
Port Phillip on Oct. 10, 1835.
It is told of the Marquis of Ailtsbury that
when he was Lord Savernane, in coming out of an
East End boxing-room, he said : “ Aint it strange
that such a blessed fool as I am should be a lord ?'
Not at all, Marquis. Seems to us that the more
blessed the fool the better the lord.
Edith O’Gorman elevates her cash
Ebenezer again in Sydney, and states that during
her tour she has gathered a large number of
Roman Catholics into the fold. No doubt she has
also been instrumental in rescuing Mud. J. Haynes
from his benighted condition as a denominational
savage.
Brunton Stephens has been using his re-
newed power of eye-sight in a study of tne Eliza-
bethan poets, the contemporaries of Shakespeare.
He reports that “they are not what they are
cracked up to be, and concludes with the general
statement that they are a crowd of “magnificent
larrikins."
No editor has yet been found for th
Brisbane Courier. Kinnaird Rose is doing most
of the work at a weekly salary. Negotiations are
pending with a well-known Melbourne journalist,
who has recently resigned his post under the
Symes. The Courier, meantime, gees down the
hill “by leaps and bounds.”
Ex-bank-manager Crook, of Adelaide, who
languishes in gaol just at present, is reported to
hold Broken Hill shares worth a quarter of a mil-
lion sterling. If that is the case we can just pic
ture the oily hypocrite rubbing his hands together
in the darkest corner of his dungeon cell, and re-
peating, The Lord is my Shepherd, I shall not
want."
That curious old gentleman, Mr. Pidding-
ton, Chairman of Committees in the N.S.W.
Legislative Council, is dead. He left considerable
money, but, it is reported, no will. In politics he
was an obstinate upholder of fossildom. He ob-
jected to cremation, and while alive had a grave
dug for himself in the Blue Mountains. He was
once a bookseller in Sydney.
Edward Bu rford , of Adelaide, is still pounding
away at his sentence of three years’ hard labour
for charging the Government with 21s. spent in
drinks, and no one seems to be making any effort
on his behalf. At the same assizes at which he
was convicted a woman who had murdered her
infant was discharged, from which circumstance
the relative value of 21s. as against one blessed
kid can be easily figured out.
Mr. A. W. Howitt, P.M., of Sale, Vic-
toria, is the son of William and Mary Howitt,
names well known in English literature. Mr.
Howitt was leader of the Burke and Wills relief
expedition in 1862. He found John King at
Coopers Creek—alive, and brought him to Mel-
bourne in triumph. He afterwards went out and
brought in the remains of Burke and Wills which
were buried with public honors in the new
cemetery, at Melbourne.
The general impression in the Queensland
journalistic world is that Carl Eeilbe rg has been
shovelled into his grave with scant ceremony.
The Bhort quarter-column sub-leader on him that
appeared in the Courier was a thin sneer in c.v
tenso, and the half-column memoir was a dry-
hash repetition thereof. But he never was really at
one with the proprietors. His attempts to
literal)se the paper up to date were one long
struggle, and, as it Is, the Courier is more hope-
lessly out of touch with its community than even
the Melbourne Argus. A vigorous rival morning
penny paper on the Democratic and readable
racket would make a pile.
Mr. M. H. Dyvies, the new Speaker of
the Victorian Assembly, is the first native raised
to that dignity. All his predecessors were Irish-
men. Sir Francis Murphy, from Cork; Sir
Charles M'Mabon, from Dublin; Sir Charles
Gavan Duffy, from Monaghan ; and Peter Lalor,
from Carlow, begorra Murphy’s father was the
keeper of Cork Gaol, and Murphy himself —a
medical man by profession—entered upon a Go-
vernment billet scon after his arrival in Victoria
as President of the Road-making Department.
He was also one of the earliest members of the
volunteer force, and old Colllngwood riflemen
will remember the titter that ran along the line
when Sir Frank’s unctuous brogue gave the order,
“ Opln colyum." M‘ Mahon is son of Sir William


M'Mahon, a former Master of the Rolls in Ireland,
and he also entered public life in Victoria as a
Civil Servant. Duffy’s father was a small farmer,
and Lalor’s father (a member of the English
House of Commons) also was an agriculturist.
Baron Huddleston, the ancient English
judge, is fast breaking dawn and will shortly rest
from his labours at rooting out the ungodly.
During his career on the bench he has sent a good
average number of ma'efactors across to the
Golden Shore, but he only did it in a kindly way,
and he never gained Hawkins’ ugly reputation as
a “hanging judge.” Some 50 years ago Huddle-
ston was assistant teacher at a cheap Iri3h sohool,
and his vigorous canings comprised almost the
entire education of many a wild gossoon, for in
those days neither he nor his employer had much
store of knowledge to impart. Teaching, how-
ever, was not a profitable speculation and finally
they both drifted to London, where the chief of
the abandoned seminary died a prosperous lawyer,
and his humble follower became in turn a member
of Parliament, a Q C., and a Judge. He married
the daughter of the Duke of St Albans—a very
hard-up duke, but possessed of a tolerably long
pedigree, and, according to popular rumour, ho
won the consent of the lady’s mother by coming
to the rescue at a time when the ducal establish-
ment was nearly up the spout. But the old duchess
was muddled and grumpy in herdeclinlngyears, and
it is questionable whether she ever knew exactly
who her new son-in-law really was. At the
wedding-breakfast she dropped a bomb-shell
among the orange blossoms by stating loudly and
cheerfully that “she was glad Diana hadn’t
married that vulgar fellow Huddleston,” and It
was one of the bridegroom’s happiest moments
when he got out of the presence of his deaf and
voluble old relative. After marriage the proud
husband talked incessantly of his wife to all and
sundry, invariably alluding to her as “ DL,” until
one day, some two or three years later, his evil
genius led him to decide on adopting a motto as
an attribute of his increasing dignity. He took
all his friends into consultation, and Bernal
Osborne suggested, with the malignant grin
which always marked his countenance when
crushing an obtrusive bore, that “ Never say die”
would do as well as anything, and, though
Huddleston was of rhinoceros build, he took the
hint, and said “ Di.” no more. His marriage was
not supposed to have been one of sentiment, but
his wife became so much attached to him that
she even shared his judicial labours, and
invariably sat on the bench by his
side, knitting stockings and listening to
the trials. At last, however, Huddleston’s
colleagues kicked against her constant presence,
and a compromise was effected by which the lady
agreed to stay away while murder cases were in
progress. Huddleston’s inborn vulgarity clothed
him like a garment, and in spite of his prosperity
he was much sat on In consequence. Constant
association with a duke’s daughter, however,
toned him down considerably in the course of
time, and the “last of the Barons "became
tolerably presentable. The people who sat on him
in earlier years are now mostly dead, and the old
Baron still lives—in fact, the man who could sur-
vive the publication of his name in a Homburg
Visiting List as “ J. W. Huddleston, Esq., toad-
eater and tuft-hunter," is likely to survive till the
Millennium.
A Yankee has invented cast-iron table-
ware that closely resembles porcelain. Hence-
forth we hops to enjoy many pleasant moments of
our declining years while watching our festive
hired girl as she drops half-a-dozen cups and
saucers and shrivels up with smothered rage be-
cause they won't smash.
A centenary item. John Mitchell, who
was a Presbyterian, and who was transported to
Vandemonia in 'lB, wrote in his Jail Journal:
“ At Bantry Sessions Timothy Leary and Mary
Leary were indicted for that they, at Oakmxunt,
did feloniously steal twenty turnips and fifty
parsnips, the property of James Gillman. Found
guilty. Sentence— Transportation for seven
years. This occurred in the famine years in
Ireland."
IKEY JAMES, OF MELBOURNE, WRITES TO FRIEND
WILLIAM AT WOOLLOOMOOLOO, RESPECTING
the Governor's Guests
Dear Bill, I ain’t written o’ late
For I bln rather down with the bloos,
An’ I thort it was better to wate
Till I readied some starterling noos,
I’ve struck on a hincardent now,
Which I guess as yer’ll think good envfl—
For it goes for to show, Bill, as ’ow
The nobs is a coppin’ our stuff.
Yer know we’ve a Guvernor ’ere
(The sama as yer own Barrin Bob)
Well, we finds ’im ten thousand a year
(An’ a tidy long prica for the job),
When he travels he don’t part a cent—
That’s a priverlege, Bill, o’ the Crown—
An’ we stands ’im ’is gas an’ ’is rent
For them ’ouses in country an’ town.
So it give us a kind of a shock —
Upset us a trifle indeed—
Wen we found as Sir ’Enery Look
Was to snavel some more bloomin' greed ;
Dunkin Gillys ’as worked it, yer bet—
He’s one o’ them Tories as love
To be in with the viceregul “set,”
An’ bask in the smiles o' the Guv.
Which he sez in’s trekully way—
“ The Hexerbishun’s a cornin’ nexyear,
An’ the Guvernor orternt to pay
For our visertors’ wittles.an’ baer ;
Which I think, as its rite to allow,
'lm hextra for lodgens and boards
An’ they shuved down another six thou.
To pervide for the globe-trottin’ lords.
By gum ! Bill, yer'd squerm with disgust
If yer read that there “ bounus ” derbate—
How they swore it was noble an’ just
To sneak some more brass from the State ;
There was only young Shiels an’ Jack Woods
As spok up,.and wasn’t afraid—
Being, both on ’em, warm bits o’ goods
Wot sez as a spade is a spade.
But the gruvellers carried their point,
And the Guv. is to finger the dibs—
Yus, another fat cut from the joint
To feed ’is most Hexcellent Nibs.
A rumur’s been spread by ’is friends
(S’help me ! old pal, it won’t wash)
That he don’t get as much as he spends—
They can’t flummox me with such bo3h.
Well, this is the latest, dear pard,
In the way of perlidcal chat,
So drop us a line on a card
To say wot yer make out o’ that;
If such biz. is exactly O K.
It is rather surprisin’ to me
Good by ! its quite likely yer may
Soo mo over next month for a spree,
POLITICAL
POINTS
North Australia has raised the banner of
Separation from the philo-Chinkie legislators of
Adelaide.
Ex-Treasurer Dickson is now the only
Queensland politician of any account who dares to
call himself a Freetrader.
AN OBVIOUS ERROR.
Rather stupid of Brown to wait for his “lady love” outside his own tailor's.
Efforts are being made in Brisbane to
form the nucleus of a Labour party on the model
of the Knights of Labour.
Professor Stuart, M.P. for Shoreditch,
says that for every Irish mouth closed by the
Tory Government twelve English democratic
hearts will be opened.
John Haynes declined to “ come out-
side” at the invi ration of Mr. Hassall, on the
ground that he didn't want to kill a calf. John
does look rather like a butcher.
There will be no “ Separation platform ”
in North Queensland at the elections. No one
would have a chance who was for the Queen-
street quid nuncs and Southern rule.
It is pretty evident, after last week’s dis-
play of “ fight ” in the N.S.W. Assembly over the
Imperial naval proposals, that half the Opposition
are fools and most of the balance curs.
Chanceller Goschen declares that the dele-
gates to the Imperial Conference advocated the
anti-Home Rule policy of the Unionists. This is
perhaps true. The renegades did not represent
Australia.
Parkes says he was at one time opposed
by the united Press of the country, but he lived
the opposition down. Which is only a roundabout
way of saying that the N.S.W. Press is a corrupt
and venal institution.
“ Don’t we all live here, and don’t we all
expect to die here?” thundered the M’Million,
M.P., the other day in the N.S.W. Assembly.
“ It is to be hoped so,” said Undertaker Melville,
M.P., in his gentlest tones.
The Queensland M.L A who talks most
about “native industries” and objurgates the
heathen Chinee, made his pile by servile labour,
and helped to break the white Looal Union that
opposed it. “Of- such are the Kingdom,” &c.
Black, who was so sanguine about Separa-
tion before he left Queensland for England, ad-
mits now that, so long as Salisbury is in power,
there is little or oo chance of it. Griffith
sealed up every official door in London, and even
when Black got one open, the flunkey would re-
port, “ Not at home.”
Premier Parkes says that he is not only
opposed to the Chinese comirg here in great
numbers, but to any other race which would
jeopardise the four elation of the genuine type of
the British character. This, we presume, is a
“ dive ” at the Irish.
Inglis, tiger slayer, stated the other night
in the N, S.W. Assembly that he had no power to
stop people begging in the State-schools for pen-
nies towards the Parkes testimonial. The num-
ber of simple things that Sir Henry’s dummies
don’t know how to do would sink a ship.
From the Age :
At the time certain benighted politicians proposed to
enco. rage the industries of |N.S.W. by putting a check ou
impoitations from .abroad, they were told that Ereetrade is
' a scientific troth—a fundamental truth in political
economy,’ and that none but barbarians would suggest its
violation. But when Riverina pleads to be allowed to trade
in the most accessible market the fundamental truth disap-
pears, and the road of trade is blocked by intense and irra-
tional je .lousy and provincialism.
The position in the N.S.W. Assembly
with regard to the Opposition is simply this :
Dlbbs is prepared to make any sacrifice to procure
the Premiership; Abbott, who has no pluck, is
neither able to lead nor willing to follow; and
Garvan is disqualified for leadership by the fact of
his being a Roman Catholic.
The Police Magistrate at Bathurst,
N.S.W., says he will never order another man to
be flogged. Now, you would think this was his
humanity. No, he will not order another man to
be flogged because a former Minister of J ustice
refused to allow a flogging sentence passed by him
to be carried out. Sheer pique—wounded
vanity.
The hoary- headed Sir ’Enry is struck with
the idea that Australia is a better name for rais-
ing money on than Now South Wales. Did it
never occur to him that Rothschild oi Baring
would be a better name to go a-borrowing with
than Parkes ? Some of his friends ought to sug-
gest this to him when he is badly in want of a
good name.
Sir Samuel Griffith’s health is likely to
prove a serious question before the Queensland
elections are out. Rest and quiet have already
been professionally recommended, but Psalmyell
continues to run his politics and Bar work as
vigorously as ever, and no petty clerk at a back-
block pL.C f -°ffice can ask for an allowance of dip
candles without Psalmyell managing the whole
Lumley Hill, the— beg pardon—M‘Elhone
of Queensland, is an old English public-school
boy He has a nervous and stuttering de-
livery, and will take up any grievance that
can lead to an exposi. He calculates to
make himself such a terror that some Govern-
ment will throw him a portfolio bone to stop
his mouth. He is wealthy and a bachelor, and
gives nice picnics to the “ sassiety ” people.
The Port Darwin people were reduced
almost to despair before the appearance of Millar
and his men for the Trans-continental Railway.
The lan-- 1 is all bought tw by absentee landlords,
who are waiting to realise on the “unearnedin-
crement racket ” when other people’s brains and
energy send the place ahead. Unhappily, Millar
is using Chinese labour largely. He introduced
the small-pox. The Adelaide people do not care a
jot.
As Attorney-General Wise is so clever at
discovering symptoms of madness among well-
connected law-breakers, he might kindly inquire
into the mental condition of Herbert Kable, who
was lately sentenced to six months’ imprisonment
at Bathurst. According to the evidence there
were “ doubts as to his sanity,” but as he had no
reliable Parkesite member to look after his in-
terests, and no influential father, he was locked
up without fuss.
A slab of maudlin bosh alleged to be
cabled to the Australian press:—“ The Earl of
Rosebery and Lord Onslow will attend the ban-
quet shortly to be given in honour of Mr. James
Service, of Victoria.” “Lords" Rosebery and
Onslow will condescend to pick the leg of a
chicken washed down with champagne with Mr.
James Service! Well, it perhaps is rather
wonderful that “lords" aren’t more particular
about their company.
Says the Melbourne D.T. :
As a matter of fact, there are no other tenants within the
circle of the British Empire for whom the law does so much
as it does for the Irish tenant.
Why will these Melbourne anti-Home Rule scribes
keep on harping on what everybody knows l No
one would be such a galoot as to deny that the
benevolent British Government has done a lot for
the Irish tenant. Has the latter not a workhouse
to enter when his crops fail, a nice little cell
when he attempts to address his fellow-men, a
bailiff, police, and soldiers galore, and all the
things that go to make an Irishman happy any-
where out of his own land ?
The O’Sullivan, M.P., has apparently got
his principles tangled. He now votes against the
proposal to make Australia bear a hand in Ecg-
land’s wars at sea, and yet he voted in favour of
the Judas who made Australia share in the
unprovoked murders of the Soudah. The differ-
ence seems to be that O’Sullivan was then a
Government supporter, whereas he is now in
Opposition, and his patriotism, being a mere party
question, fell through when his boss wanted his
vote. These are the knots in which the sham
Democrat gets himself tied up.
Princess Beatrice has written a new song,
“ The Merry Month of May.” Music by the new
baby, we presume.
Numerous papers are publishing the testi-
mony of learned specialists, which go to prove
that the prevalence of baldness Is consequent upon
the practise of washing the head. Can t someone
be bribed to shampoo Sir Henry Sharkos '!
On the occasion of the opening of the
Geelong Juvenile Exhibition there was a swagger
procession through the streets, and a small boy
mounted on a William goat out in just behind the
Governor’s carriage. He represented the Soudan
Contingent ret urning with the spoils of war.
STRAIGHT BUSINESS.
Newspaper men are not easily decsived. Jf
iong in the journalistic harness they are cynical
from force of clrcumstarces, as they have inside
views of the shams of politics of society, of
professions and of conduct of life generally, denied
ordinary men and woman. Therefore, when an
editor gives an unqualified endorsement to some-
thing which he knows will raise the ire of some
of his readers, it is evident to all candid minds
that that something must ha possessed of real
merit and be all it is represented to be. The
fo lowing article from the Donald (Victoria) Times
of 25th October, 1887, of which Godfrey Morgan,
Esq., is editor and proprietor, is self-explanatory.’
The Times is the oldest printed paper in the St.
Arnaud Shire, and its editor has had thirty-two
years honorable connection with newspapers in
that district: —“ Many of my readers and my
friends ask me how Warner's safe cure has
affected me, and I think it only due to state the
following for their and the publio information.
I may state that this is not an advertisement,
and that the Messrs. Warner and Co. will know
nothing of this until they see it in the paper. I
have not been in good health for the last three
years, and in April and May last I was very
weak, could hardly walk about, and was able to
eat very little; every morning, about 3to 1 o’clock,
I had a severe attack of vomiting which lasted
some time, and my urine was of blood colour, and
left a sediment of the colour of brick-dust. I had
got so ill that I fell down several times through
weakness, and thought I would die through want
of nourishment. Being always ready to provide
for the future, I went to Fred. Poole to know
what a substantial coffin would cost, and to Mr.
Oakley to make out my will; they asked a very
high figure, and I was on my way home sad and
dejected when a funeral passed, and two friends
whom I met asked why I was not following it.
I replied that I was not strong enough to get into
the buggy, and the chances were that I should
soon be lifted in and head a procession, One of
them said that I should try and live to September
or October, as the roads were terrible bad then,
and if I could only manage to live till the roads’
got better I should have the largest funeral that
had ever been in Donald. His mate said: ‘ Morgan
knows how to cure himself; nearly every week he
has printed, in his own paper that Warner’s s ife
cure would do him good, or perhaps cure him ; if
he does not take some it serves him right,’’ I
thought it over and procured a bottle that even-
ing and commenced tak jog it. The effects were
wonderfnl; in a few days I began to eat with
relish, my urine became of good colour, the vomit-
ing ceased; and I could sleep well, and slowly liyi
degrees I gained strength, and in a month w eJg
able to go to St, Arnaud, although I had to jfie
lifted into a cab. In another month I vejSwfred
to Maryborough, although very weak, Jr In the
carriage were some commercial travellers that I
was acquainted with, and, in course ®f conversa-
tion, I stated that I was using ‘ Warner’s Safe
Care.’ One of them said : *I am /surprised that
a man of the world like you sh/mld take any
patent medicine ’ I replied tha/ I believed I
would not be there if it were not/for it. and that I
knew it had benefited Mr. Porjftr, postmaster at
Narraport; that it had greedy benefitedl»[rs. W
Hoare, of Jeffcott; that ah old lady at JeSibott,
over4s yearshad been confinAd to
her bed through debility for over a year, had tteen
able to get up and walk about through taking'‘it,
and that, although I did not believe that any
patent medicine would cure everyone, as constitu-
tions differ, it had evidently suited mine. In con
elusion, I may say that I am nearly as well as ever
and that although walking awkward sometimes’
through rheumatism, I now intend to try War’
ner’s safe rheumatic cure in hope that i«i wil.
benefit me as much as the safe euro haa done,’*
Gooerky Mokgan.


THE BULLETIN, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1887.


Putting His Foot In It.
“IT IS NOT A "VERY EASY FIT, BUT I'LL GET IT ON OR BUST SOMETHING!”


Society
Two of the officers of the German
squadron have been distinguishing themselves in
a doubtful manner in Samoa lately. One of them,
while in a hotel there, addressed Borne Rabelaisian
remarks to the barmaid. She then drew dis-
paraging comparisons between British atd Ger-
man officers, which so Incensed the sauer kraut
cruncher that he hit her in the jaw, and knocked
her off the chair on which she was sitting. There
were other officers present, but b9ing of inferior
rank they did not dare interfere. But they had
the adamantine cheek to ask the girl not to tell
any of the Britishers about the affair. The
offender went next day and humbly apologised,
and the German Consul’s sister called upon the
Hebe all for the purpose of squaring the matter.
The business got blabbed about, but, as usual, the
Britishers have submitted to the indignities of
German schafskoph.
* * *
The Earl of Buckinghamshire has a warm
period bossing the Grosvenor Gallery show in
Melbourne. There was an age—several ages
when Earls walked abroad in gilded splendour,
attended by esquires hearing their battered
shields. Somebody generally blew a trumpet
when Earls were about, and you could spot ’em
quite easily. But the good old customs are ex-
tinct, and so it haptens that Buckinghamshire
wanders round the Gallery, unknown of any but
the very best Melbourne people, my dear. This
unfortunate lack of education among the lower
classes makes things trying for the Earl at times.
The Argus has actually heard that “ a curious
person accosted him with ‘ Hi! can you tell us
the price of that?”’ Notbitg was done to the
curious person, because his lordship is an amiable
young man, kindly disposed towards the masses.
Yes, “ and at another time a well-known member
of Parliament approached with a friendly and en-
couraging nod and the question, ‘ Are you the cove
wot sells the pictures ?' ” For wanton obtuseness
we think the senator gave a stone beating to the
curious person, and the Argus Jeames evidently
shares this opinion. The fact is, something must
be done for poor B. in the way of establishing his
nobility before the world. He must be respect-
fully requested to wear his coronet in the gallery,
and arrange for the limelight to be turned on him
through a hole in the roof. So muoh for Buck-
inghamshire 1
* *
Captain Traill, who fairly earns his oats
as working aide-de-camp to Sir Henry Loch,
paired off with his pretty little tuberose on Wed-
nesday last. In the blushing days of maiden-
hood Mrs. Captain Traill answered to the name
of Miss Ethel Sumner, and she swapped it away
in the dusty suburb of Brunswick (Melb ). There
was a particularly proud and ’orty crowd at the
interesting ceremony. The bride “looked nice as
usual,” and the wedding presents, at even pawn-
shop prices, would provide a modest competence
for a poet’s term of natural life. Matrimony is a
ruthless destroyer of life’s romances, and Mel-
bourne sassiety will sadly miss the turtle-doveing
of Captain T. and his ladylove. In the time
which is past never to return, it was pleasant to
watch them at the theatre, sitting, Oh! so close
together, and whispering odes to their respective
eyebrows. But this sort ot thing never stretches
beyond the honeymoon. The lover enjoys those
delicious tete-a-tetes between the acts—the
married man skips off to see an apocryphal
friend, and comes hack breathing whisky.
• * •
The SM. Herald, in gushing over
Boehm’s bronze statue of Her Majesty, says :
The height of the bronze figure from the plinth to the
crown is lift. 4in. The statue, which is a majestic and faith
ful likeness, represents the Queen in a regal dress.
If the statue is maiestic it isn’t faithful. Vic. is
four feet odd in height and ditto in diameter, and
goes around generally in a seedy black dress, and
a rusty bonnet The statue to he unveiled during
our grand Centenary drunk is one of a tall, im-
posing woman togged to death and exasperation,
and, as likely as not, she'll have sandals on,
whereas her living original wears a pair of burst
boots that look like a nocturnal crime. Boehm’s
statue represents Her Majesty as she appears
to the loyal revellers who rise in th 6 darksome
hours of the morning to sing “ God Save our —Me
—gray-shoes Queen ! ’ before falling under the
table, but it isn’t the real Queen—not by a long,
ong way.
A gallant major of the Victorian army
was summoned the other day for the price of the
goldlace on another gallant major’s uniform. It ap-
peared that the other major couldn’t obtain the
necessary splendour unless the Arst major guaran-
teed the bill which had remained unpaid for two
years and a half. The courb decided that the
trappings of war must be paid for, and expressed
an opinion that the gallant guarantor had been
“let in” (such were the court’s words) by his
brother officer and gentleman. This reminds us
that our imported millingtary are often annoyed
by new-chums armed with power of attorney from
London tailors to obtain cash for garments sup-
plied in the long ago. It is the one great disad-
vantage of serving Her Gracious Majesty that
“ the d d tailor fellow ” can always run you to
earth. Isn’t it, Colonel ?—but we will
spare his feelings.
# * *
Lady Carington is slowly recovering from
her rheumatiz, bub isn’t yet allowed to walk.
* * *
At a recent meeting of “ The Chinese
Church Society” Primate Barry gave out that:—
He would speak on two subjects—our duty to the Chinese
inhabitants of this eity—first as a man, and then as a Chris-
tian. As men, w« had towards them the duty of true
humanity As Christians, we had to seek to embrace them, in a
higher calling, the power of Christian love at d duty.
After this we intend to go in bald-headed for
wholesale and retail iniquity. If embracing a
Chinaman is necessary to becoming a Christian,
we won’t be Christianised. We will remain a
Heathen and danb ourself with sky-blue tints and
keep a harem and worship a pig and go down to
Sheol with our self-respect intact.
* # *
Lady Loch is still regretting “ that she
will be unable to receive visitors on Thursday."
Last week’s notice exoused her ladyship on the
ground that she had an engagement at an Agri-
cultural Show —but she never did that Show, all
the same. As Melbourne sassiety is beginning to j
make spiteful jokes about the apocryphal Thurs-
day afternoons at Government House, it would be
better for the wearied lady to regret, once and for
all, that those wretched little “ tabby parties ”
don’t agree with her constitution.
* * *
Baronet Clarke, of Melbourne, has taken
a wrinkle from Lord Tom Brassey. He thinks
the half-crown admission system was a good idea,
and therefore the other day he threw open his
colossal new house at the corner of Wellington
Parade and Clarendon-street, East Melbourne, to
public inspection, and charged for admission. He
gave the gentle public, however, some music for
its shillings and half-crowns, and Lady Clarke
ran a bazaar. The proceeds went to the Rev.
Wollaston’s Sunday-school round the corner.
Cross-examiner Purves’s cock has now been
stiAed on its own dunghill by the clarion voice ot
the Sunbury rooster. Hitherto Mosspennocb, the
seat of the Purves, has stood unrivalled among
the East Melbourne mansions, but Clarke’s mons-
ter place, a few yards off, turns the Q.C.’s habita-
tion into quite a common-place kind of crib.
* * *
In a shooting case recently tried in Sydney,
said his Honor, in passing sentence : “ Referring
to the circumstances under which the prisoner
was mixed up with the women,” &e., &c., it \
showed how people could be deceived in their
estimate “of a man," &c , &o. “ Prisoner was
said to be a most respectable and moral man, and
yet here they found him with these two poor
creatures—both married women," &c., &c , “con-
stantly about his place and in his bedroom and
shop, and living with one as his mistress. It was
impossible to lose sight of circumstances of this
kind.” That’s ju6t it! It is quite too impossible
to lose sight of such circumstances. We once
knew of a judge of the Supreme Court in holy
Adelaide, who no doubt frequently uttered similar
moral platitudes from his se at on the Bench, and
when we saw him o’ nights, as we often did.
prowling round the holy city, sticking up every
decent-looking woman who happened to be abroad
after dark unattended, we felt extremely sorry to
think that circumstances in the life of this parti-
cular judge— and, no doubt, of a good many other
judges, too—could not be investigated at the point
of a raw cow-hide by someone with the pluck of
“ our William ” and the skill in the use of a stock-
whip of Buffalo Bill.
• • •
’Twas a quiet retreat in a Sydney water-
side suburb—a luxurious villa, with lawns sloping
to the water’s edge; inhabited by a legal
The London Morning Post, the most Tory of Tory rags, proposes that all peers in
coming of age should undergo an examination to decide whether they are moray,
physically, and intellectually qualified to act as legislators.
luminary. The golden shades of sunset were
deepening to dusk as the haughty owner issued
from the mansion, and proceeded with a stately
tread to the water's edge. In bis hand he carried
a bucket. And what was the bucket full of ?
Never mind ; you’ll see as you go on. He pro-
ceeded, as already remarked, with stately tread
through the garden, past the aromatic
Aowerbeds, down to the silent shore. Arrived there,
he set the bucket down, stooped gracefully over
ib, pub his hand in, and with Anger and thumb he
drew out—a kitten. He held the kitten up in the
air, and contemplated it abstractedly ; the kitten
reached out sadly with its claws as it swung
pendulous by its tail. Ib mewed and grabbed
plaintively at him in the tender appealing way a
kitten has. Then he advanced to the brink and
dropped the baby pussy in. A few struggles,
watched with much interest, and all was over.
“Hum, ha! ” remarked the luminary. Then
he reaohed into the bucket and got another
kitten. “Ah, hum!” he murmured softly,
as he dropped number two into the briny
and watched him gurgle and go down. Number
three swam well, and had to be swamped with a
rock judiciously (we had almcst said judicially) ap-
plied to the top of its head, ere it sank to its eternal
! rest. The next took its gruel quietly, but its sue
| cessor died hard, and “the bubbling cry of some
strong swimmer in his agony ” was heard through
the marine village. Then the luminary picked up
his empty bucket, and wended his way homeward
in the glowing eventide, with a light heart and a
lighter bucket. He made one remark as he passed
up the steps of the retreat, the half-whispered
words, “ Hum, Ha ! ” were borne away by the ves-
per breeze, and then all was still.
* * *
Their most nobles the Marquis of Drog-
heda and the Earl of Carnarvon “did the Vic-
torian Leg. (merely an abbreviation) Assembly one
night last week. They were planked down be-
side Speaker Davies in the evident expectation of
hearing some choice selections of Imperial
grovel. Butthevisit was badly timed, forjustthen
Jack Woods began to turn a cold shoulder on the
Naval Defence Forces Bill. Jack’s inopportune
eloquence so upset the old nobility that they rushed
into the more congenial atmosphere of the Council
to be braced up by Tory platitudes.
* * *
Commodore Fairfax’s recent application
to Premier Parkes was the most extraordinary on
record. In plain English, it would read, “You
have given us so very muoh more than we had
any right to expect as a prize for a yacht-race, in
which the competitors will be few and wealthy,
we now come, trusting to a further exhibition of
your innocence, to ask you for a further vote for
the purpose of feeding and boozing ourselves and
our particular friends on the auspicious occasion
of the race.” Strange as was this request, the
answer was still stranger. It was, “ Hush! I
can’t exactly promise it; but you may get it if you
ODly keep it dark.”
* * •
Mrs. Fairfax, wife of the English Admiral
in Australia, held an “At Home ” on the 22nd,
when the salt-horse brigade rolled up in force.
The Admiral also perpetrated some extensive
carryings on in Melbourne during his recent visit,
and on the 21sb he blossomed out in a ball at
which Sir Henry and Lady Loch took a hand,
with the Marquis and Marchioness of Drogheda to
back them up when they felt tired.
* * *
Arthur Aylesbury de Yere Somerset, said
to be related to the Duke of Somerset, aired a
grievance in Melbourne County Court last week,
bub blood didn’t tell on this occasion, and Arthur
lost his case. The Dook’s relative appears to
have put his pedigree in his boob, and canvassed
for books and opera-glasses by the sweat of his
noble brow. In private life he is known as “Lord
Somerset,” and, so far as appearances go, Arthur
might be the Great Mogul or the Khan of Tar-
tary, he looks so high-bred and stand-offish-like.
But the Emperor’s nephew who cleans out this
office informs us that the Duke of Somerset’s
family name is Seymour, which makes Arthur’s
title look a little mixed. What did you say? Oh !
and the Emperor's only sister’s third child says he
has heard unde speak-of a Lord Arthur Somerset,.
younger sen of the giddy old Duke of Beaufort.
Now, then, Arthur Aylesbury de Yere.
* * *
The Argus acknowledges the receipt of
Ave guineas from Master Evie Rowan for the
Q ueen’s Fund. It strikes us that dear little Evie
must inevitably grow up to be a groveller. What
chance is there for the wretched kid whose ma
says : “ Now, Evie, it you are very good, and
don’t throw stones at the cat for a whole day, I
will reward you with £5 and Ave bright shillings
to give to a fund named after Her Gracious
Majesty?” We also observe that the whole
family of Lady Nicholson down to the last new
baby are contributing to this charity. And yet a
deceased gentleman who hung out at Stratford-
on-Avon asked “ What’s in a name ? ’
* * *
Eight wives were advertised for one day
last week in a Sydney paper. Recent divorces
have caused the vacancies. Six applicants de-
scribed themselves as widowers.
* * *
Woman, sweet, innocent woman—the
gentle, guileless creature whose clothes take up
all the drawers at home, and who yet asserts that
she has nothing to wear—has been at it again.
At Auckland (N.Z ), Ellen Frances Brown com-
pounded a dark and villain aus scheme, by which
eha purposed to wreck the moral character of
George Pooley, and cause him to be scorned in the
marble halls of the Young Men’s Christian Asso-
! ciation, and cast out of the tabernacle where the
glittering Methodist wrestles with the Sunday-
school spread currant-bun. She commenced her
fell design by borrowing a baby, and then she ap-
I eared with tears before the beak, and begged
that George might be compelled to furnish cloth-
ing and perennial refreshment for his offspring.
The staggered George declared that he didn’t
know Ellen, and that he never had any offspring,
and then he hied him to the registry-office, and
found to his horror that he was entered as the
father of one miscellaneous infant. It was too
much, and in his despair he hired a lawyer, and
the lawyer hired a detective, and the detective
hired a policeman, and among them they found
out where the baby had been borrowed from.
Then Ellen collapsed amid loud hysterics, and was
towed off to gaol in a badly broken-up condition,
and she now spends her time in screaming through
the keyhole that if they will only let her out she
will never, never do it any more.
* * *
Mr. Joey Creer, M.P. for Northumber-
land in the N.S.W. Assembly, says there are no
virtuous women in private bars. How does he
know, anyhow? Surely no one has had the
audacity to make a general test of the virtue of
all the private barmaids 1
* * *
In a N.S. W. District Court. “ What trade
does the witness carry on V Voice from the rear:
—“ He carries on the trade of bein’ burnt out. Two
Area in one year—that’s his business.” “Ought
to pay well,” remarks his Honor.
* * *
An elderly M.P., with a young and pretty
wife, has lately been making more of an ass of
himself than usual. Like many other extinct
volcanoes, he is of a wildly jealous turn, and
every night he comes home expecting to find the
Are out, the housemaid tearing her hair, and his
partner eloped with a disguised monarch. The
other evening he felt this presentiment so strongly
that he left the House in haste with a young
country member's hat on his head, and next
morning, when he discovered somebody else’s
initials in a cady on the hall table, he considered
that his worst fears were realised. He hopped
round madly on his splodgy feet, and, pointing
tragically- to the interior of the hat, told the lady
that all was over between them; then he drove
his foot into the betraying belltopper and called
her a perjured wretch, and a moment later he
struck an attitude and bade her beware, for he
would bring the blood of the deceiver along in his
own tile and pour it out at her feet He would
Blay the monster who had laid his home waste,
and catch his brains in the plug hat with which
he had outraged his dearest affections, and then
he would plant the evidence of her guilt on his
wife’s golden head, and Bend her home to her
mother in the blood-stained chimney-pot which
was the monument of her own disgrace. He left
the poor girl drowned in tears, and went off to his
solicitor, and they proceeded between them to
indite a tropical letter to the owner of the head-
gear. That gentleman speedily realised the posi-
tion, ’aving ’imself ’ad to tramp ’ome in a strange
’at (we drop the haspirate in accordance with par-
liamentary usage), and he proceeded to indict
the husband with the splodgy feet for having em-
bezzled private property valued at 17s, 6d. The
proceedings closed with an abject apology, but
the insulted wife called her partner a monster and
a slave, and went home to her ma.
* * *-
All sorts of marvellous creatures are found
in Australia. In Sydney Supreme Court lately a
girl owned up to being 26.
* * *
Conroy—the publican who shot Councillor
Snook, at Perth (W.A.) because Mr. Snook would
not invite his (Conroy’s) olive branches to some
juvenile festivity—was hanged the other day at
Perth. And, perhaps, when poor Conroy gets to
Heaven, he will see Snook sitting in the “ Re-
served-martyrs only ” seats with a gaudy crown
and a spangled harp, while he has to sit in the pit
and do odd jobs for the damned.
* * *
The Bulletin predicted that S. A. Joseph,
M L.C., and Burdett Smith, M.P., would be
present at the spread to his lordßhip of Carnarvon.
We were not far wrong. These distinguished
gentlemen are now on the banquet committee,
busily sharpening all their remaining teeth to fulAl
their apparently inevitable earthly mission of
chronic “bingie busting M'Elhonianphrase—in
company with one of England’s old nobility.
* * *
Four or five reporters are always present
at the meetings of the Presbyterian Assembly in
Melbourne. The business is opened and closed
with-prayer. While the preliminary prayers are
being offered up the scribes generally All in time
by writing arrears of copy. The Her 4ld man has
had a turn in the Divorce Court, and is polishing
off the evidence of the private deteotive who
broke into the house at 1 p.m. ; the Argus fellow
has been interviewing Lord Somebody ; the Age
scribe has just come away from a farewell or wel-
come feed to Joe or David Syme (one or the other
comes off every three months) ; and the D.T. cove
has had a bad night—at a tea-meeting. They’re
all writing up like mad. Well, the Presbytery
don’t like that; and the other day they placed a
memo, on the reporters’ table before proceedings
began, to the effect that the gentlemen of the press
were requested not to write while prayer was be-
ing offered up. Since then the reporters never
write while the Rev. M‘Somebody is engaged in
prayer ; and one—only one—newspaper man has
been actually known to join in the prayer. And
he was an Evenin’ Herald man, too 1
* * •
There’s nothing mean about us. These
are bad times, and everyone is trying to make
money, so we’ll put you up to a wrinkle. If you
want to rake in the cash, this is how to do it.
Go to one of the banks and buy a station ; you
don’t want any money for that, because the bank
will be glad to get anyone to take up the liability.
Then buy a big lot of sheep, giving promissory-
notes—no trouble about that. Then get an
advance from some Anancial institution on the
sheep—that’s easy enough if your sheep are worth
anything. Next, sell the sheep for hard cash as
soon as you can, and skip before the notes come
due. Also very easy. You need not pay any-
thing, and you will have the prioe of the sheep
and the amount of the advance clean pro At. The
seller, the Anancial institution, and the buyer will
then spend all their money in law trying to And
out whom the sheep belong to. But that is their
troubles, not yours. Try it, young man; try it,
and prosper.
* * *
A man (at least, by courtesy) suggests —of
course, through the medium of the S.M, Herald
—that some Government with the self-respeot of
The superiority of the Australian sculler is no longer in
doubt, and the names of Beach and Biiav are far-famed
Beach for rowing and Bray for the excellence and ext< n
siveness of China and. Glass, and Bric-a-brac Goods. Pretty
things at equal price of ugly at 102 and 104, George-street,*
FRECKLED WE, an infallible cure for Freckles, TaD,
s unburn, and every description of Ephelis and Lentigo, and
effects a cure by chemically changing the coloring matter
deposited under the epidermis or scarf skin, which is re
absorbed into the system and carried off by the natura
excretory channels. Frecklebane dees not injure the skin or
c rmplexion Sold by all chemists Special city agents: W.
H. Siui and Co., Pitt-street. Price 2s. 10d., post free,
from F. M, Clements, Chemist, Newtown N.S.W,
J. B. P ce’s and Co.’s Bangle Brand smoking Tobacco is
he most delicious smoke in the world, acknowledged by all
connoisseurs to be the most delicate in flavour. Prepared so
that the combustion is perfect. Burns out to the last
pariiob with a pure white ash. Try it.


a hog and the moral code of a Chinaman should
perpetrate a whale of a grovel by re-christening
N.S.W. “ Guelphlard." He reckons this would
be an honour to Wales, and would make that
rotund, bald-headed German snort with eestacy.
For our own part, we prefer some brief but com-
pendious cognomen, without any frills to it. If
N.S.W. must squirm, let it be done in two syl-
lables by naming the colony after the lady named
Buggins, who became Queen Victoria’s aunt by
marriage. She was the only one of the family
who never put on any airs. Just call it plain
“Buggins.”
* * *
There Is some satisfaction in dying in
America, when a San Francisco paper takes to
giving the corpses of eminent citizens a!send-
off like this :
The other day, just after the sun had kissed the world
good night and passed into its bed of crimson and gold, the
spirit of A. G. Sturgis vacated its habitation of clay and
wended its way to the Father who gave it, and to-day is
walking the glory-lit hills of immortality in the New Jeru-
salem, where there is no night.
They don’t fix up things in that sort of style In
Australia. No, we guess not. When we have
sworn at the head compositor for the last time,
and then gone home and panned out our dust, the
chances are that the S.M. Herald will decline to
iuserb a simple “ ad.” stating that our soul has
fled unless the shilling is paid in advance
Perhaps—saddening thought!—they may want
eighteenpence.
Choice lunacy from the S.M. Herald :
MK. JOHN , of Penrith, has had many great
offers, but is not married yet, nor is he engaged. He
is very particular, and a stanch Catholic.
Listen to that, now ! All day long golden girls in
auriferous clothes and golden locks are throwing
themselves at John’s head, and he has refused
them all because he is so very particular. His
life Is one long, rosy dream of flossy-headed
darlings coming out in cabs and buggies, and
wheelbarrows, and Shanks’s pony, to propose, and
he has sent them away weeping one after the
other. Girls with large feet, small feet, middle-
sized feet, corns and bunions; blonde girls,
brunette girls, and red headed girls; girls with
money and without, girls of all shapes, sorts,
sizes, and descriptions have laid siege to his affec-
tions, and he has told them to go and be blowed.
And yet not one of the rejected aDgels has evei
thought of calling at this office and lajing her
affections at our feet, as we sit inditiDg screed on
a dusty chair in a dusty room—not one 1 We say
it with tears—not one !
* • *
The Marquis of Ailesbury’svirtnes are here-
ditary. His mother, Lady Evelyn Craven, who was
thrice wedded, eloped from her second husband
with a captain in the 16th Lancers, who after-
wards married her.
# * *
Mrs. R. Palmer, aged 94, won the prizes
for best-darned coat and trousers at Mount Gam-
bler (S.A.) Spring Show. It is clear that the art
of darning belongs to a bygone age.
* * *
Unlike his poor old predecessor, Lord
Augustus Loftus, who was forced to borrow coin
from wealthy Australians of his acquaintance,
Governor Carington is very punctilious in his re-
gard for the rules of the Colonial Office, and fl atly
refuses to receive presents from any of Ills Sydney
admirers. His diffidence is quite commendable.
His Excellency never knows whether in the course
of duty he may not be called upon to bang the
giver or his relatives. And as H. E. hangs un-
educated seventeen-year-old boys four at a time,
he could hardly find a pretext for mercy with re-
spect to the salt of the earth.
* •» •
J usl now the London press is kicking up
considerable dust concerning solicitation in the
streets. Which reminds us of a story told by a
certain colonial actor who was once so accosted.
He paused, looked at the nymph with a tragic
air, and in sepulchral tones said, “ How dare you
speak to me without an introduction ! ” The girl
fled. She had never viewed it in that light
before.
# * #
Present prospects point to the conclusion
that next January will be a big month for the
lunatic asylums, gaols, and hospitals. There are
to be gala-days for cricket, football, rowing,
swimming, sailing, cycling, lacrosse, lawn tennis,
bowling, guzzling, boxing, wrestling, speechify-
ing, buckjumpiDg, cow shows, bull shows, calf
shows, dog shows, flower shows, cat shows, hen
shows, horse racing, fancy fairs, ecclesiastical
high jinks, and everything else that the son of
man can pine after, and more besides. In fact,
Australia is going to have a Sheol of a Cen-
tenary, and don’t you forget it, and wiil awake
therefrom with a head on it as large as the whole
of Parkes.
# * *
For a most dastardly and unprovoked
assault upon a Melbourne publican (an old man,
too), Mr. Panton, P.M,, has just fined a constable
£5. This Is the sapient magistrate who not long
ago sentenced Sevier-Sutton, the bookmaker, to a
fortnight’s imprisonment “without the option”
for slapping my Lord Viscount Deerhurst on the
face, under circumstances of great provocation.
We expect Justice to be blind, but there is no
reason why she should also be deaf, dumb, and
idiotic.
* * *
Poetry, sweet poetry, what a holy joy
thou art! The following, from the dead and gone
column of a Melbourne daily, will explain the
cause of our sudden excitement:
“ Safely shielded from all sorrow,
From the cares of earth set free,
There is no dark to-morrow;
Oh, how happy she must be !”
A touching little verse which ought to be hung
up in every gaol. Let us also strike our tuneful
liar on the same subject :
Gone the earthly spark that flickers
In this tenement of clay ;
With the seraphim she liquors
In the realms of endless day ;
’Mid the lonely tombs we’ll stick hers,
For her soul has passed away.
* *
Late the other night Premier Sharkes drew
up a little Bill (suggestive!) to change the name of
New South Wales to “ Kingdom Come." Think
of that, boys! When you run over to Yurrup
and a thin-legged dude enquires : “Haw! What
countrymen are you, doncherknow ? ” you’ll flap
your arms so and answer “ An angel."
* * *
The marriage of pretty Miss Boucicault
with a Melbourne actor is not “on the tapis ” —
that eternal tapis / as announced by a Melbonrne
sporting paper. Dudes will be glad to hear this,
and they can go on dying for the dainty little
daughter of Dion, same as usual. We are slowly
expiring ourself.
* * *
The Duke of Edinburgh hjs been making
a royal sensation in Austria. At Trieste he
visited an Art Exhibition in company with his wife,
BENCH: “WHAT IS YOUR COMPLAINT AGAINST THE DEFENDANT, AH OO?"
AH FOO (unable to collect cabbage-bill): “HE TOO MUCHEE BY-AND-BYE.”
and hauled two dogs along with him by a string
On entering the gallery he tied the animals to
the door-knob while he strolled around, and
when an Austrian nobleman entered he naturally
drove the door against the dogs and then fell over
them The Austrian was heavy and the dogs
were thin, and, consequently, it was a pair oi
badly-flattened animals that the Duke towed be-
hind him when he stumped off in great dudgeon
after expending flve shillings.
* * *
The last straw.—All the musical societies
of Sydney will centenerate.
There was a fair maiden of Wagga,
Who fancied she felt someone jog her
By chance in a crowd,
So she screamed very lou i,
And they sent all the men to the flogger
* * *
An English paper says :
Lord Cairns is a lucky man in his ultimate choice of a
bride. Miss Olive Berens’s beauty is equal to that of either
of the lovely ladies to whom his hand was previously offered.
Miss Fortescue and Miss Adele Grant, fair as they were,
were no lovelier than the lady who is now about to secure the
prize they rejected. Miss Berens is a niece of Sir Herbert
Stewart, the hero of Abu Klea, and has inherited the good
looks of the Herberts of Muclcross. Her other uncle, old
Mr. M Calmont, is said to ba fabulously rich, so the bride
may find herself well portioned; and her parents are people
of great talent, and in high favour at Court. Mrs. Berens is
well-known in literary circles, and Berens piire is one of the
great authorities on navigation as well as photography, so
that Gumboil may be said to have secured a decidedly bril-
liant match this time. “ The third time is lucky,” says the
popular axiom. The Earl has left Scotland, and no doubt
comes southward rejoicing over his good fortune.
« *
*
Mr. Bill Stutt, an ex-M.L.A., who once
kept a brace of lions at the rear of his pub. in
Bourke street, Melbourne, has just developed into
a lion on his own account. It appears that he
was rather sweet on Mrs. Gray, a Bairnsdale
widow, who asserts that he prom'sed to run in
double harness with her, and who claims £5OOO
dam iges for non-fulfilment. Stutt, who is Presi-
dent of the Licensed Victuallers’ Association,
was an exceedingly torrid “loyal Liberal” in the
days of Sir Charles Darlipg, but was, neverthe-
less, always popular down South. He’s supposed
to have made a very decent pile by hotel-keeping,
and Mrs. Gray doubtless knows her way about.
• »
Larry Foley has committed matrimony
again. His accompl’ce is a beautiful and well-
educated lady with lots of money.
* t •
The correct caper in Sydney at present Is
to give a picnic to the seaside, and ask your
guests to pay all expenses. The guests like it, and it
enables the host to assume an aspect of reckless,
devil-may-care hospitality that is very attractive.
* * *
Governor Carington is to open the new
gymnasium at the Victoria Barracks to-morrow
(Friday) evening, when a good attendance of the
brass pots of the earth is expected. Next day,
when he lias got rested a bit, he will distribute
the prizes in connection with the late rifle com-
petition, the show off at the Exhibition
Building, and this being done, the poor man will
go to bed.
* # *
The average Australian gymnastic girl is
a sun browned, bony, bouncing, voluble creature
with short skirts and large boots and a muscle
like unto that of a male cricketer in a suburban
eleven. She is rather nice to look at, and she
is handy when some one is wanted to lift the
heavy end of a log, but she is not the sort of
creature whom any sane man wants to marry.
She is too straight a shot with the fire-irons to
suit the peaceful joys of domestic life, and when
she starts to clean out the house with a
chair-leg even a child of Anak has got to
go and sleep in the woodshed, There are
several scores of these young ladies loose in
Melbourne just now, training away under
the distinguished, &c., of Lady Loch, my
dear. They held a gymnastic corroborree the
other day which the parsonical D.T. says was at'
tended by “ a hundred rosy, well developed girls,”
who wore “white cotton sh'rts and blouses.”
We protest against the game and all its conse-
quences, cotton shirts and blouses included. Man
wants but little here below, but he wants to get
that little quietly, and when he comes home tired
and disgusted and his wife proposes to box 16
rounds to decide whether he’ll take her to the
theatre or not, the chances are that he will give
way to drink.
*■ * •
There was a Sunday-school picnic in a
N.S.W. up-country town the other day, which
will be a sad memory to many of the maidens
present, on account of an old joke that was played
upon them. Half a mile from the camp a silvery
river flowed over yellow sands, and in one of its
leafy solitudes a dozen of the youDger girls went
in to swim. Then a mean, old, bloated stranger
came down and sat on their clothes to keep them
from being blown away. The eldest maiden
cried, “Go away, base man!” but he never moved.
She tried Christian remonstrance with only her
head appearing above the water, but he merely
smiled and continued to sit hard down on the
togs. Then she dived and got three large stone 3
out of the river-bed and hit him in the chest; she
also screamed and told him excitedly that he was
no gentleman. On this he rose slowly and left,
taking the garments with him, every one. Six-
teen discreet deacons and four-and-twenty teachers
found them, after an hour’s search, planted in the
bush, and the girls got ashore after spending
three hours in the cold, pellucid stream. This is
a very old practical ioke, but it seems to work
just the same way every time.
* * •
In a recent English abduction case, where
a man of 47, with a wife and several plciges, ran
off with a girl of 19, it transpired that “defendant
was a prominent member of the mission with
which the Carringtons were connected, and dis-
tributed hymn-books while Mr. Carrington con-
ducted open air services.” The same old story—
salvation and sin—'im books and immorality.
* * *
From the N.Y. Mirror :
San Francisco society has gone daft over Mrs. Langtry-
on the outside. Formerly it was about her pretty arms and
bust; now it is all on account of other details. It transpires
that a certain tailor has taken her measure for cloth gowns,
and he has been naughty and betrayel all the secrets of his
explorations, and for the delectation of the fashion world
reports the Lily’s dimensions as follows Height, 5 feet 7 ;
across shoulders, 15 inches ; bust, 36 ; arm, 12 ; thigh, 24 ;
calf, 12 ; neck, 12 ; hips, 45 ; length of leg, 28 ; waist, 26 ;
length of arm, 26 ; ankle, 8 ; foot, 8 ; face, 7 1-7 ; around
crown of head, 24 ; nose to finger-tip (arm out) 28.
All we want now is the dimensions of her cheek.
* * *
Griffith, after much irritation against Cap-
tain Wright (and anyone who understands anything
of the matter knows that officer well deserved the
right about face), has caved in. Colonel French,
who is all powerful with “ Psalmyeil,” acted as
mediator. The Imperialistic ” people always
stick together.
* * *
The bustle proved itself a life-saving
apparatus lately. At a certain skating-rink the
other day a young lady came a cropper and in-
stantly rebounded into the air, and then alighted
on to her skates again, went ker-flop again, hit
the same place, same business da capo, then final
release from the exciting pastime. Beautiful
buffer, the bustle.
* * *
Douglas Sladen is “ favourably known to
a large public as the foremost Australian poet.”
This incontrovertible fact is mentioned by a small
London print called Public Opinion, in connec-
tion with a gushing notice of the foremost one’s
latest and greatest work, “Edward, the Black
Prince.” In this epic drama (vide title-page) our
“ premier„bard ” has soared a little higher than
the angels. The cobwebs of prejudice, which
have hitherto intercepted our view of Douglas’s
genius, are brushed away at one fell swoop. He
stands forth clear and distinct, against a murky
background of minor Australian poets, such as
Brunton Stephens, Lindsay Gordon, and Kendall.
Even the godlike Parkes seems but a secondary
figure in the picture. The printing and binding
of “Edward, the Black Prince,” are in keeping
with its loftiness of conception and richness of
treatment. It is a bine blooded production
throughout, reeking with royalty and all that is
best in life. Listen to the Black Prince’s mother
warning him against the danger of an unsuitable
marriage :
“ Kings are not wedded, nor kings’ sons,
For play (like beggar-men who mate for fancy
And breeding up of servants), but must wait
Until come gorge, with danger eddying through,
Yields safety only to a bridge of.hearts.”
There’s a sentiment worthy of Australia’s fore-
most poet! Mark the class of distinction between
a plain mister and a king ! The one may rush his
gal into the registrar’s office at Love’s first
promptings, while the other must “wait until
some gorge" This is intended to explain the
frequency of royal banquets. We might point out
a thousand more subtle beauties in our Sladen,
but it would ba mean to give his book away for
sixpence. The work of Oar National Bard can be
import 2d from England by any of his old ad-
mirers.
# * •
Dr. Darwin, successor to the great
Charles, declares that “ the reason why the
bosom of a beautiful woman is an object of such
peculiar delight is that all our first pleasurable
sensations of warmth, sustenance, and repose are
derived from this interesting source.” We beg
leave to move an amendment. Thousands who
were brought up by hand have derived their first
pleasurable sensations from a very different
source, and yet not one of these has ever been
known to evince any very rapturous emotions at
the sight of a spoon—except in hot grog. The
theory often holds good, however, in the case of
men who have been raised on the bottle.
* *■ *
The Hon. William Swanson, M.L.C., of
New Zealand, is a gruff old man. On one occa-
sion he was approached by two ladies—an old one
and a rather pretty young ’un, who desired that
he should “ shove ” his name down on a subscrip-
tion-list for some church or other. “No,” bio illy
said the legislator, “I never give money for such
objects; but if this young lady will give me a
kiss, I don’t mind giving her £5 ” The damozel
seemed inclined to earn the fiver, but was deterred
by her companion, the nitric-acid spinster, who
said frigidly, “ We cannot earn money for the
good cause in that way.” “You!" said the
r idled Swanson, “Who the devil wants to kiss
you ? I would not take £5 to do it 1”
* * •
1 he “ great esteem ” in which a medico in
a Western (N S.W.) town was held was recently
shown in the presentation to him by 63 leading
citizens of a horse which ran away with him the
first day he got it and broke two of his ribs and a
leg. Next time he is testimonialised he will
stipulate for something quiet in the shape of a tog
of dynamite or a pet alligator.
* * *
The teaching of whist-playing is announced
by a Sydney paper as a new industry for “ women
of education.” I here’s no reason why it shouldn’t
be so regarded. We know many ladies who are
eminently qualified to act as professors—many who
can telegraph to their partners, in from seven to
ten seconds, the exact value of each of the thirteen
cards they hold in their hands. We know others-
who thoroughly understand the knock suggestive,
and more than one who can plant an ace at the
bottom after the cut. No false delicacy, or, indeed,
delicacy of any kind, should bar the dissemination
of useful knowledge of this kind. ’Twould be as
sinful as hiding one’s “talent” in any other
way.
# * •
North Shore, Sydney, holds a man who
would seem'“ to have done the State some ser-
vice.” He has tasted the sveets of matrimony
five times, and a few days ago his twenty-third
child arrived from the land of the Great Unknown.
* * .
The maxim of the Woman’s Christian
Temperance Association is “ the lips that (ouch
liquor shall never touch mine,” and yet they
wonder why men will persist in flying to drink.
We don’t. We’ve attended a meeting of the
W.C.T.A,
* * *
The latest from America:—A delicate
matter. Miss Kane —“I think my girth has
broken, Michael.” The New Groom (who has
learned his trade at Dalmonico's as a reserve
waiter) —“ Yis, me leddy (modestly) ; yure chap-
peroon ’ll soon be wid yez, She’s jist risin’ th' hill
wid th’ vhlctora (divil take the name) !”
And here again. —ln a western town lives
a doctor who has buried four wives. When
number four was a bride of a few days, she went
with her oldest step-daughter into the attic to find
an ironing-board. Seeiag a board that she thought
would answer her purpose nicely, she was about
to take it, when the daughter exclaimed : “ Oh,
don’t take that. That is what father uses to lay
out his wives on !”
* # *
The Sydney larrikin now wears corsets.
* * *
From S.M. Herald :
WIDOW has comfortable Home ; suit widower, with one
or two children. 22, street, .
■yyIDOWERS, sc—Widow Lady wishes Charge of Chil-
dren, good home, mod. Mere, street P.O.
* * *
Stephen Thompson, in a recent number
of the Pall Mall Gazette, writing on Austra-
lian literature, questions the claim of Gordon,
Brunton Stephens, Marcus Clark, and Henry
Kendall to be considered “ poets,” and states that
they merely wrote “ some stray verses in a local
paper " years ago, ‘‘ in the intervals of ‘ report-
ing 1’ ”
A SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We loved in the fresh, fair time
Of our fair, fresh youth,
When love was a thing sublime
In its strength and truth ;
Do you think of that old young time
Very oft, friend Ruth ?
The passionate beat of young hearts
When young vows are made !
The thrill which a touch imparts
To a boy and a maid !
But the season of Love departs
And its roses fade.
Summer is not for aye,
Ah ! the days are few
We wove us a garland gay
Ere a cold wind blew —
And the blossoms that died away
Never blossomed anew.
Do the red, eager lips that throbbed,
And were hot as flame
When their honey was boldly robbed,
Ever breathe my name ?
Have you covered your face and sobbed
Since the winter came ?
What if we loved again
In our calm, cool prime,
With a love that has outlived pain
And its pangs sublime ?
”i’ were but a reminder vain
Of the old young time.
Summer is not for aye
And its joys have fled—
We wove us a garland gay,
But its flowers are dead—
The passion has passed away
And its tears are shed.
LAVENIR.
It is well that the future we cannot know—
That we see but the brighter side,
Until Time reveals with its onward flow
The pain that we fain would hide.
It is well that no presence can whisper low,
That no second sight can guide.
We would witness scenes through the coining
years
That would place on our souls a ban ;
Our hearts would be torn by more dreaded fears
Than have been since the world began :
We would see through a mist of bitter tears
The shroud on the living man.
But onward, with faith that is mad and blind,
We drift to a shadowy end,
Guided by Fate, that is cruel or kind,
That is neither our foe nor friend ;
Caressed or bruised by a fickle wind
That will pamper or cruelly rend.
H. E. P. M.


Dear Bulletin, — You are anxious to know
what has become of the heroic Stanley’s testimonial
money. I ean tell you. The balance due t
Stanley is “ thirty pieces of silver." Out of thi
amount the committee are to purchase an allot
mont of land to bo used as an Aceldama, or age
sanguinis, for all concerned in the infamou
slaughter.—F. S,
What is there in all thiswi.de, wide sphere
of mortal ugliness out of which a Queen could no
make money? During the recent Jubilee craze
Her Gracious received tons upon tons of valuable
gifts, which are now being exhibited to a loya
public at so much per head. On Monday the
labourer’s “missus" gets in on payment of one
blessed penny, and the officials keep a sharp eye
on her to see that she doesn’t steal any of the
jewellery. Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday are
, sixpenny days, when the grocer’s “wife” mosi
doth congregate. Tuesday and Thursday are
shilling occasions, on which the parson’s “lady’
blossoms out to gaze on the implements of grovel
by the grace of God ; and thus the orders 01
society are kept separate, and the penny “ trash ’
are prevented from getting between the wind and
the nobility of the silver spoons of the earth.
Rumour has it that the proceeds of the show are
to go to the hospitals, but, so far, nothing has hap-
pened to confirm this bald and dubious report,
and the chances are that the hinder pocket of
Battenberg’s kilt will bo the final destination of
the gate-money.
Dear B ulletin, — I believe there is a
clause in the N.S.W, Education Act which re-
quires teachers of all ranks to take no part in
public discussions on political or religious topics,
and to abstain from the dissemination of sectarian
hatreds and old-world bigotry, but apparently in
the cases of some of the servants of the Depart-
ment this regulation is a dead letter. At the
town of C (N.S.W,) a concert was recently
held, under the auspices of the L.O. Lodge, and
all the old stories of gory murders perpetrated in
the name of Heaven 200 years ago were raked up
and gloated over. In particular, a certain Public
School teacher dwelt eloquently on the saintly
character of the double apostate, Cranmer, and
on the beautiful example set by Dutch William
in the course of his Irish slaughters, and in various
other ways did his best to spread the great moral
principle of “To hell with the Pope.” Isuppose when
this gentleman exerts himself thus to disseminate
imported Erglish bigotry in public meetings he
will do the same in his school, and, as the Educa-
tion Act was expressly designed to prevent
religious fanatics of all kinds from communi-
citing their mental disease to the next generation,
I would he glad to know why such things are per-
mitted.—Yours, B. B.
The Moldacot: a novel and ingenious Sewing Machine
weighs less than lib. Perfect in all its parts, contains not a
single wheel, and will stitch from the finest linen to the
stoutest cloth. Its price is 17s. Gd. Marvelous ! Sale rooms
George-street, near Palings.
Parkes’ favorite tree is the will-ow(e).
His creditors the weeping,
•• Parkes got his notion of the Centennial
Dead House out of hia own head. This is about
the nearest approach we have yet heard of to a
castle in the haii.
Prayers for rain were offered up by some
Manning River parsons the other Sunday. A ter-
rible downpour followed, and one parson got wet
through and caught cold. Great is the power of
prayer.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, November 20, 1887.
TENDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are Invited for the following PL BLIO
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which Is kept at
every post-office in the oolony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten
ders are opened, and the name of the sucoessfu
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly oomplied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
_ Dawn to wldun
, , Tuudem
Ham 0! “ 01k» and Supplies mu bu uncured
__ __ ,_-~---- nil Iahivs afﬁne.
Wiﬁanlug Fridge at. Auuandnla,
I’nrmman if rand
Emotion u! Timber Wharm.
ﬂ, Pyrmonu. Darling llnr- -
Milan 0! Bridge. Wilson's
Crank-road. new" to Tremen-
hu- (exclwsivo of supply of
ﬁrmwark)
Wharf, 800.. Tromrord -atreeb. Tuesday.
stocktom Newcaaue Harbour Doonmbar d.
SmullComtor Normésbora 'l‘ram- M: 11 o'clock.
my. 1553
Washing Linen. Railway De-
jmlment, 1358, (LS. 6:. \V.
Lino
Supply 0! 106,000 Wood Ewing
Blocks. Railway Department. I
Bridge over Dilgn Uroek. on
road Burrawzmg co Unldcto-
‘801'7 .
Brldgo over Mnudagery (freak.
ghﬂiuzowm |
Gamma” of Wharf. kc" 011- I
notice Frmlertcktun, Mm)»:
luvs:
rmwmg ’I‘mdca m. the Medical
School. Sydney L'nivuwiw
Bridge over Uooyu! Ilrcuk. mum
Cudgegong [:0 Home liulo
Construction of 25 Passenger En-
‘ﬂln‘aa
(mu-action 01' 35 (7:00:15 lin- 'l'uuaulny,
Mn“ ' Dannmb!‘ I21,
Smcing. Mommy Mooney Cm): M It o'clock.
Bridge over Gwydlr Rivnr. at
Mame
Simply of Locomotives. to ho
‘mulactured within Lh u
colony . I
Supply or Billet Wood In IIAH- I
my Dona! annL during N36
mm: or Bricks at. mmgowl
Bunion
Admtialnsln NewcastleJ‘latts‘
1|ng Tramway I
Purchwo of Right In Colic-ct
71‘”!!! lgnzm 11mm“ tr 1 l
Pmung. sea, hhauqumis Mglxl. I
46(0an
Additions l‘uml 3L um'mn
“Eda-sink Wlughnm Wham-Sac.
motion of Court House, Bulls:
dalah Tuebday.
Bridge 'over Gmwﬁn (track an] [Immhor 20.
Pwknmmo (inclusive of an)» M “o'clock.
ply ol Twnwork) I
Enoch: of Posh and "l‘olegmnh
mm “623%...” D ‘
, v I‘ I II
169% PC will maﬁl
[ C.W .'. ' ,
Swivmﬂ'ﬂfﬁwmml , , , A. ‘
363’s Barman;
THEATRE.
QRITBRION
Solo Proprietor Mr. John Solomon
In consequence of
W. J. HOLLOWAY’S
BRILLIANT SHAKESPEARIAN SEASON
terminating on DECEMBER 23,
Shakespeare’s exquisite pastoral Comedy,
AS YOU LIKE IT. AS YOU LIKE IT
can only be played
FOR A LIMITED NUMBER OF NIGHTS.
MISS ESSIE JENYNS
received by crowded, and enthusiastic audiences
as the IDEAL and PERFECT
ROSALIND.
ROSALIND Miss ESSIE JENYNS.
ORLANDO W. J. HOLLOWAY.
The Box Plan at Nicholson’s music warehouse.
Bus. Manager for W. J. Holloway, W. H. Manning.
MONTY BROWNE, Manager.
Alhambra music hall.
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. FRANK SMITH.
Stage Manager ... Mr. Harry Barrington,
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
EVERY EVENING.
THE BEAUTIES IN THE AIR
THE BEAUTIES IN THE AIR.
IN THIS OUR THIRD YEAR, WE STAND
PRE-EMINENT, having been
ELECTED by the POPULACE to the TOP SHELF
o£ SUCCESS IN THIS OUR SOUTHERN
HOME as the
MOORE AND BURGESS SHOW OF
AUSTRALIA.
Popular Prices :
Orchestra Chairs, 25.; Stalls, Is.; Balcony, 6d.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Leasees Messrs. Rlgnold and Allison.
Doors open 7. ; Performance 8 ; Carriages 10.30.
PRONOUNCED SUCCESS OF
MY PARTNER
or
MATE 3 ON THE GOLDFIELDS.
Prices, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s and Co.’s.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
Theatre royal
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Muagrove.
Lessee, Mr, Sam. Lazar.
EVERY EVENING
AT 7.15 PRECISELY,
LA MASCOTTE.
LA MASCOTTE.
Prices as usual.
Tickets for all parts of the house at East way's Hotel.
ACADEMY OF MUSIC.
A.V. Lesse and Manager ... F. E. Hiscocks.
The return of the
GREAT MACCABE.
GRAND INAUGURAL NIGHT,
SATURDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 3,
See future announcements and bills.
Bo? plan at Nicholson's on Wednesday morning.
Manager for Mr. Maccabe, F. 11. POLLOCK.
PAIN'S FIREWORKS.
I'M‘IS IN THE DOMAIN
FIREWORKS NEXT IN THE DOMAIN
I—‘Alrl’ﬂ IN THE DOMAIN
FIREWORKS IN THE DOMAIN
I' \IN'S IN THE DOMAIN
FIREWORKS IN THE DOMAIN
1’ \lN'S- IN THE DOMAIN
I“Il'.I-:VIUI(KS GRAND IN THE DOMAIN
PAIN‘S IN THE DOMAIN
F1 RK‘WORKS IN THE DOMAIN
I’AIN'S IN THE DOMAIN
FIREWORKS IN THE DOMAIN
PAIN'S IN THE DOMAIN
II‘IRIMVUIIKS Ulﬁl’LAY IN THE DOMAIN
. PAIN‘S IN THIS DOMAIN
FIIUMVI‘IRKS IN THE DOMAIN
PA W‘d IN THE DOMAIN
FIREWORKS IN THE DOMAIN
1N 'I'IIIc PAIN'S
1.0M \IN MONDAY. FIREWORKS
IN ‘II I In PAIN'S
I N IM A I N FIREWORKS
IN 'I'IIH: PAIN'B
In m A IN FIREWORKS
IN 'I'IIE PAIN’B
MOM MN MU l-iMBER 5. FIREWORKS
I.\' THE PAIN'S
[IONA 1N FIREWORKS
IN 'I’Il I-I PAIN’S
In) M A I .‘~: FI REWORKS
IN 'I'II III MON HAY. PAIN’S
l DOM A IN FIREWORKS
IN 1‘" l-; PAIN'IS
mm Al I»: FIREWORKS
IN '1‘" II: IIIccfmIIII-tlc 5. PAIN'S
DOMAIN FIREWORKS
II. MENTON.
Manager for JAM ES PAIN.
“AUSTRALIA’S” GRAND CONSULTATION.
SUMMER CUP, Monday, December 26, 1888,
3.000 subs, at £1 each. First Horse, £l5OO :
Seccnd Horse, £6OO ; Third Horse, 800; Starters,
£3OO ; Non-Starters, £3OO, To be divided amongst
them.
ANNIVERSARY HANDICAP, January 26, 1888.
8000 subs, at £1 each. First Horse, £2500 ;
Second Horse, £1000 ; Third Horse, £5OO. Starters,
£500; Non-Starters, £5OO. To be divided amongst
them. Subscribers are requested to apply early
that the fortunate drawers of horses may have
time to hedge. Persons making application for
Tickets are requested to register all letters to en-
sure safe delivery of same, and enclose two
stamped addressed envelopes for reply and result.
Address: “ Australia,” care of Mr. Hugh Dalvecn,
Wholesale and Retail Tobacconist, Victoria Cigar
Divan, 3158 Gcorge-street, Sydney.
Shakespeai e.
|HE £5 PRIZE, given for three best Shakes-
X pearean quotations on “ SIR HENRY
PARKES,” has been won by Messrs. Burford and
Mar.?h, The?.'re Royal, Sydney,
Alhambra music hall.
George-streeb, Haymarkeb.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING at 7.30,
GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
Of 38 Performers, 38 Performers.
Under the Conductorship of Mr. Chas. Austin*
Sittings as Usual.
BOTANY. BOTANY. BOTANY.
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON at 3.30.
GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
op Well-known Artists,
Artistically and Numerically the Strongest,
Under the Conductorship of Mr. Chas. Austin*
Grounds, Is. Children free.
FRANK SMITH, Director.
A Blessing in every Family
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT,
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers.
In all the ordinary ailments of humanity their beneficent
. action is at once recognised.
Fullest directions are supplied for their use in every disease,
IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London.
£2r Purchassers should look to the Label on the Boxes and
Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-street London, they
are spurious.
fgf
i ofjSydneg,
JENOLAN"CAVi:SrBLU£kMOUNrAINSA
S3I6:CEORCE:5 T ;iBETWEwH^TtRSriC.P.Oi,.
QTTIEjIEjIISrSIIi-A.IN'ID.
Millar, carter, and c 0.,
Shipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office. —227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency.—John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency.—T. H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers, Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Ashfield recreation grounds and
GARDEN PALACE
Manager ... Alfred Wyburd.
SUMMER HILL BICYCLE CLUB.
First Annual Back Meeting—Saturday, Dec.
17. To be held by Electric Light. Com-
mencing at 7 p.m.
PROGRAMME.
(Under the sanction of the N.S.W. Cyclists' Union.)
One Mile Maiden Bicycle Race (to be ridden on
roadsters, minimum weight 351b).—First prize,
value 5 guineas ; 2nd, 3 guineas; 3rd, 2 guineas.
One Mile Open Handicap.—lst prize, value 7
guineas ; 2nd, 5 guineas ; 3rd, 3 guineas. Half-
mile 2nd class Scratch Race. —Ist prize, value 5
guineas; 2nd, 3 guineas; 3rd, 2 guineas. One
Mile Club Handicap (open to members of Summer
Hill B.C. only).—lst prize, o guineas: 2nd, 3
guineas ; 3rd, 2 guineas. 110yds. Foot Race (open
to all amateurs). —Ist prize, value 5 guineas ; 2nd
3 guineas ; 3rd, 2 guineas. Entrance Fee for each
event, 2s. 6d. E. NICHOLLS, Hon. Sec.
THE AUSTRALIAN JUVENILE
GIANT FAMILY
Will be on Exhibition, for a short period only, at
the
EGYPTIAN HALL, George-street,
Previous to their departure for Europe and
America. Open Daily. Admission 6d.
H. M. BOUCHER,
Business Manager.
Words of Warning and Comfort.
" If you are suffering from poor health or
1 languishing on a bed of sickness, take cheer,
‘ if you are simply ailing, or if you feel
‘ v. eak and dispirited,
' without clearly know-
‘ ing why, Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters
'will surely cure you.”
If you are a minister, and
have overtaxed yourself with your
pastoral duties', or a mother worn out
with care and work, or a man of business, or
labor, weakened by the strain of your everyday du-
ties, or a man of letters toiling over your midnight
work Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters will
most surely strengthen you.
If you are suffering from over-eating or drinking,
any indiscretion or dissipation, or are young and
growing too fast, as Is often the case,
" Or if you are in the workshop, on the
* firm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
‘ that your system needs cleansing, ton-
‘ ing, or stimulating, without intoxicat-
‘ing, if you aie old,
‘ blood thin and impure, pulse
‘ feeble, nerves unsteady, faculties
, waniDg, Dr. Soule's American Hop BiHers is what
‘you need to give you new life, health, and vigor."
If you are costive, or dyspeptic, or suffer-
ing from any other of the numerous dis-
eases of the stomach or bowels, it is your
own fault if you remain ill. If you are wasting
away with any form of kidney disease, stop *
tempting death this moment, and turn for
a—cure to Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters,
If you are sick with that terrible sickness,
Nervousness, you will find a “Balm in Gilead”
in Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters.
—lf you are a frequenter, or a resident of,
—a miasmatic district, barricade your system against
—the scourge of all countries, Malaria, K pidemic,
—Bilious and Intermittent Fevers by the
use of Dr. Soule's American Hop Bitters.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow skin, bad breath Dr.
Soule's American Hop Bitters wi'l give you fair skin, rich
blood, the sweetest breath and health, £5OO will be paid for
a case that they will not cure or help.
A Lady’s Wish.
‘ Oh, how I do wish my skin was as clear and soft as yours,
said a lady to her friend. ‘ You can easily make it so,’
answered the friend. ‘ How ? ’ inquired the first lady,
‘By using Dr. Soule's American Hop Bitters that makes
pure, rich blood, and blooming health. It did it for me as
you observe.’
t3T None genuine without a bunch of green hops
on the white label, and Dr. Soule's name blown in
the bottle. Beware of all the vilepoisonous stuff
made to Imitate the above.
ROW’S
Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTKRS to be taken two
or three times a day; a wineglassful for an adulb,
smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov*
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Disease will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals, diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the Quantity twice a day.
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Rowe and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S, England.
Port Adelaide, October 30 188 G.
Gentlemen, —I ae great pleasure in recom-
mending Row’s D anelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with Liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
all who suffer from Liver complaint to try them, —
Yours,
0. R. UPJOHN, J.P.
Tamworth, August 21,1880.
Read an expression of thankfulness received by
the undersigned
“ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
deprfssion of spirits, and so on, but all without
produc'ng any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effecb and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, Dear Sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“ Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney,
m
m.
M 3
m
m
3 A
(11l
u
Row’s Steane’s Wine
is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex
or children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite*
ment to he followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
Row’s Steane’s Wine.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. YOUNG LADIES can take
this when suffering from general debility. It’s
only a pure tonic. Try i\
HEAD CERTIFICATE RESPECTING ITS
PURITY.
“Having carefully exanioed a bottle of ROW’S
‘STEANE”S’ WINE, manufactured by Edward
Row and Company, I consider them a very whole-
some tonic, suitable for perjons suffering from
weak digestion, beiDg peifecily fr;c from any in-
jurious chemic .Is, too often used in such prepara-
tions. They flnuld become a favorite drink in
these warm climates.
(Signed) JOHN M'KILLOP, analyst.
“Sydney, December 23, 1884.”
Row’s ffiteane's wine
has also weaned many persons from the excessive
use of ardent spirits.
TEETOTALLERS will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
TRY THEM.
HOTEL-KEEPERS ALL KEEP
ROW’S ASSORTED BITTERS,
CONTAINING
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS,
ROW’S YOU’LL DO BITTERS,
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS,
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS,
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS,
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS,
ROW’S ASSORTED WINES
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
SOLE PROPRIETORS,
Edward Row & Company,
13, 15, 17, GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY,


Centrally
situated
e AND
ACCESSIBLE
TO ALE THE LEADINC
BUSINESS
HOUSES
IN THE
CITY
DANIELL’S IMPERIAL 1 HOTEL
THE MOST COMFORTABLE
HOTtr-
EQUATOR
£2
m
=s.
U
I
DAN
cX
LL
Ms
-- %
THREE MINUTES
DRIVE
FROM THE
RAILWAY
s TATION
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
WITH AILTHE
MERCANTILE
HOUSES
BANKS Sc.
Private Suites with Luggage Room attached for tie convenience of Ladies. Ladies' Drawing-room, with a magnificent view of the Brisbane River and
One-Tree Hill, Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths. *sf COIIERCIAL ROOM,
Gentlemen’s Smoking, Rending, and Corresponding Room. All Letters and Telegrams applying for Apartments will receive prompt at tention. C. H. DAMIELI,
LE. '. - RWAU (‘9:
saug
tgU PEfeRIJg
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERS HIRE
SA UCE which am calculated so deceive the Fuhlic, Lea and Fersim
have to request that Purchaser m that Ike LAI m every hotth
hears their Sigmtmvs Mm—
.i'-
withms which m httk of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SA UCE is gmmm .
Ask for LEA and PERRINS Same, and see Mame m Wimpfgr, Label, BM& #mS
Stopper, '■ Wholesale and fm■? Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse emd
Blackwell, I,smdon t &*£., §*<?„;■ and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.,
Wholesale Agents : Montefiore Joseph & C 0.,: David Cohen & Co., Sydney.
SMOKE AND CHEW
abut in urn an
lb
PKT
aru^
mm
Ms
MIXTURE
;■ is
0
uys/<m
a
WS&
g 25
co^z/M
680
(leotye
C/'y.rt'
yyjTJL
au/&/
k TO OUR TOWN AND COUNTRY FRIENDS.
On receipt of I’. 0.0. for £1 lg. wo will forward yon 31b. of our celebrated VULCAN MIXTURE In
Jib, packets, which we can highly recommend as being the best in the market; with this a SILVER-
MOUNTED BRIAR RIDE and a first class TOBACCO POUCII.
For 63. you can buy the LARGEST and BEST
PLUG of choice TOBACCO sold in the Australian
colonies, made fnm tho PUREST and BEST
AMERICAN LEAF.
The attention of squatters s*nd storekeepers in
the country is particularly drawn to the ARMY
and NAVY brand of Tobacco, which we can sup-
ply wholesale at price which defies competition.
AMERICAN LONG-CUT RUBY.
Ditto ROUGH-CUT RUBY.
Is. Gd. per. PACKETS, our own cutting
from best AMERICAN GOLD BLOCKS.
Guaranteed the Purest American Tobacco.
Our CELEBRATED VULCAN MIXTURE in
Jib. PACKETS, a successful blending of the
finest American Tobaccos, producing one of the
best smokes extant.
Is. Per PACKET of Jib. FULL WEIGHT.
All kinds of Sterling Silver-mounted BRIARS
and MEERCHAUMS always on hand. The Cele-
brated VULCAN BRIARS, CnERRYWOOD
PIPES, etc.
VULCAN, RUBY, AROMATIC TWIST, and
POCKET PIECES are the finest quality of Ameri-
can Aromatic Tobaccos imported. One trial will
suffice to prove their superiority to all other brands
of Aromatic Tobaccos market.
6d and Is. Per PLUG.
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
680, 682, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Gtmral Depot for Camerons, T. C. Williams, end all the Best
Imported and Other Tobaccos.
WE CAN RECOMMEND
B_ EUGENTE’S
LADIES’ AND GENTLEMEN’S
HAIRDRESSING SALOON
As the most central and well appointed of any in
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Note the Address—
-96 ELIZABETH-STREET
(A few doors from G.P.0.),
Next to Colonial Bank,
MELBOURNE.
WILL Mrs. E. BRUNTON, late news-agent,
Newcastle, oblige by calling on the ac-
countant at The Bulletin office, if in Sydney.
CHRISTIE’S
QUEENSLAND EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
GENERAL INFORMATION OFFICE.
Missing Friends searched for.
Solicitors and others supplied with reliable In-
formation.
79 Elizabeth-street,
BRISBANE.
.MANUFACTURING HATTERS,
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
FEWEST SHAPES.
Anfi at) QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
A Good Night’s Sport
Can always bo had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL,
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given In the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, ir you miss Four’s you
Have not been the oity.
GBD.GBD. GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
BRIAR PIPES,
Still maintains its Prestige and stands pre-eminent among
the hosts of o*her brands as
THE BEST OUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforce the Law against
alii persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT Sc 00.,
231. OLARENCE-STREET.
GfrßD. GBD.
We hare Large Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to hand and Regular Shipman (looming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY.
ALAN B. BRIGHT,
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
THE EMPIRE HOTEL,
CORNER OF
Hunter & Pitt Streets, Sydney.
This now and magnificent Family Hotel is constructed on the most modern principle 3.
Largo and well ventilated Bedrooms, Private Suites of Apartments, Best of Attendance,
Comfort of Guests first consideration, position most central, Hydraulic Lift for Guests and
Visitors, Sanitary Arrangements perfect, Bathrooms on each tloor. Letters and telegrams
receive prompt attention.
J. CURTIN ,Proprietor.
This BEER
awarded! at w i
Adelaide EX-]’ Ti
hibition f| First
Prize Gold Medal.
Cooper & McLeod’s
India Pale
Ale.
EDI rSJ BUEG-ET.
R. CUNYNGHAME, Bond street, Sydney.
In bulk
and case.
Best BEKIt
In the Market,
drawn by all
leading Hotels.
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
TEOH BIRIGi-lEITOTSr OIF 1 IST-S-'W-
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Sappers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, &e , are
served on the shortest notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most ’recherche
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies thB mannificent view ot the sea and surrounding oountry •
here also you can have good company, good wine3~in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and picnic parties provided. Table
cle Ilote at 1 o’clock dally and Sundays. No expense Is spared by Mrs. Kilminster to make her vi-i-
-tors comfor able, and her Hotel the best in the Co’ony.
MRS. KILMSSiSTtR, CUrendon HoteJ,
OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH, MANI.y


ANTIQUARIANS say that the umbrella was
invented shortly after the flood, and has
been the least improved upon of all appliances for
human comfort, the shape beitg now as it was in
those youthful days of the world. An umbrella
is much like a pigeon as to the question of
possession—the last one who gets it owns it. The
following facts about umbrellas, especially the
last one, may serve every reader a splendid pur"
posa sooner or later : To place your umbrella in a
rack indicates that it is about to change owners.
An umbrella carried over a woman, the man
getting nothing but the drippings of the rain, in-
dicates courtship When the man has the um-
brella and the woman the drippings, it indicates
marriage. To carry it at right angles, under
your arm, signifies that an eye is to be lost by the
man who follows you. To put a cotton umbrella
by the side of a nice silk one, signifies “ exchange
is no robbery." To lend an umbrella indicates
that “I am a fool.” To carry an umbrella just
high enough to tear out men’s eyes and knock off
men’s hats, signifies “I am a woman.” To go
without an umbrella in a rain storm shows ‘ ‘ I am
sure of getting Rheumatism, and will have to use
St. Jacabs oil to get well I ” To keep a fine um-
brella for your own use and a bottle of St. Jacobs
oil always in the house, in base of Rheumatism or
accident, would signify that you are a real
philosopher.
INTOXICATING DRINK QUESTION.
Is to all appearances as far from being settled
as it ever was. The champions on cither side
claim to be in possession of an unlimited supply of
arguments with which to make good their position
but no sooner is one stronghold captured by the
enemy than the victor has his flank turned, and
he is compelled to abandon his advantage and fly
for shelter. First one side wins, then the other,
and the air is filled alternately with the shouts of
victory, and the despairing yells of the defeated
Staunch temperance advocates, rational drinkers,
rabid teetotallers and real hard cases express their
opinions in turn ; the triumph of each being short,
lived and unsatisfactory to a degree. Between
them all it is not to be wondered at if the gentle
public begins to show signs of weariness. It looks
to its advisers for advice, and gets arguments
seasoned with invective. Away down at the
bottom of all this is the hard fact that the world
is trying to be cleanlier and soberer than it was
won’t to be-that it does not drink for the mere
sake of drinking as savagely as it used to do—and
that it will not be cajoled or coerced into the
adoption of the crude theories of any set of cranks
who have erected altars to their own individual
opinions, and desire to boss all the rest of creation
into worshipping thereat. People who want to
live decent, honest, sober lives have no ambition
to fight and snarl about the lines on which they
shall proceed. The wisdom of the day is suffi-
cient to teach them that potent imported
spirits and fiery home-made imitations thereof are
not at all the sort of basis on which to become
regenerate. Their eyes are slowly but surely be-
ing opened to the understanding that good malt
liquor suits their tastes, their constitutions, and
their pockets better than anything else, and they
drink Clausen’s New York Champagne Lager
Beer because it is far superior to any other
description of malt liquor known, quietly ignoring
the while the ravings of representatives theorists,
nd the dei unoiations of all the self-constituted
etists w ho want to pelt them into perdition with
the fang ends of a bastard morality.
The Bathurst Times says that John Haynes
“ is constructed morally and otherwise on the
lines of that Yankee editor to whom Lowell has
given so dubious an immortality : ‘ If he/, prin-
cerplea don’t suit they kin be changed.’ ”
The country editors of N.S.W. and the
adjacent colonies are lifted up in spirit a good
deal just now by the unanimous receipt of a cir-
cular from the Parkes’ Relief Committee asking
for their “cordial assistance and valuable co-
operation." Naturally enough, this unwonted
politeness is calculated to make the steam power
LADY (from balcony) : “PROPS!”
BROWN: “WHO THE DEUCE IS CALLING ME NAMES?”
of the One-Horse Pioneer hitch up his collar
and go out to look for subscriptions, and when he
comes to the last clause of the letter, in which he
is alluded to as a “ gentleman,” the chances are
ten to one that he grabs the pen and starts right
off to hooray for Sir ’Enery in an article which,
on calmer reflection, is afterwards crowded out
by a sudden rush of “ consultation " ads. arriving
quite unexpectedly at the last moment a week
previously. But, in spite of all this, the cash re-
sults from the back-blocKs are not encouraging.
The publicans who have put down Iheir names
for small sums want Parkes to come down and
drink it out, and the Chinamen, who were ex-
pected to launch out handsomely on behalf of
their brother yellow, yell, with one unanimous
voice, “ No savee 1”
This is a pretty little tale of the cheerfal
long gone by. Years ago there was a rich
mine in—let us say, North Queensland —that
was systematically robbed till at last the
owners got tired of it. So, “from inform atioh
received,” they applied to the magistrate for a
warrant to search the premises of a storekeeper
whom nearly everybody knew to be the receiver
of the stolen property, and the magistrate granted
it, and wicked at the clerk of petty sessions.
The clerk of petty sessions then winked
at the dcg-inspector, and he winked at
the senior-constable, and the latter winked
at the trooper who was to make the search,
and the trooper went down and winked at the
storekeeper, and as the result of all this winking
the storekeeper got the gold safely stowed away
in a bucket and covered over with corn. Then
the trooper made his search and found nothing,
and having eDjoyed a drink he was just about to
depart in peace. But at this auspicious moment
his horse put its head in at the door and calmly
raked over the bucket of oats, leaving fifty
ounces of gold on the floor. This was too much,
and the officer felt he must do his duty. He cast
one withering glance on the storekeeper, and
then scooped up the plunder and left. The gold
was never heard of again, but the faithful con-
stable built a new house shortly afterwards.
TO?
h
*4
:
H
\
s<Ll
The watchword of all athletics is “ Time.” The
universal cry at the end of a race is “ Time I
What’s the Time ? ” Athletics should carry the
Waterbury, and they would always know. Ib is
as strong as the strongest; as “fit” as the best
trained ; ib runs better than the swiftest, and ba3
a more inexhaustible wind than the most endui
ing. You can run with it, jump with it, jump on
it if you like, and, if injured, you can have it re
paired at a nominal cost. But it is so strong and
so simple that it is not easily injured, and it has
a record of its own which you can’t beat. But
you strain every nerve to get the best time every
time when if you carried a Waterbury you would
always be sure to have it. All wholesale and re-
tail dealers throughout the colonies sell it, and the
address of the Repair Depot is
56, Margaretvtreet, Sydney.
A GOOD HOUSEWIFE.
Ihe good housewife, when sh: is giving her house its
spring lenovatiag, should bear in mind that the dear in-
mates of her house are more precious than many houses,
and that their systems need cleansing by purifying the
blood, regulating the stomach and bowels to prevent and
cure the diseases arising from spring malaria and miasma,
und she must know that there is nothing that will do it so
perfectly and surely as Dr. Soule’s American Bop Bitters
the purest and te3t of medicines ‘‘Concord N. H.
Patriot ”
New South Wales.— This colony at the present time
assistß a larger number of Emigrants from Great Britain
than all the rest of Australia put together. The climate be-
ing hotter than in other parts, disease here assumes a sub-
tropical character and we find Fevers of all kinds, Diarrhoea,
Dvsentery, Cholerine and Cholera p-evail at certain periods
Tbe Chinese in New South Wales have long since learnt,
thanks to a kind-hearted nobleman who employs many
hundred Celestials, that the easiest and most successful
method of cutting short and curing these diseases, is at once
to take a dose of Freeman’s Chlorodyne which in the majority
of cases arrests the further progress of the malady, or to con
time it according to the directions until the disease is cured.
—Sold everywhere throughout the Colonies. Insist upon
having “ Freeman’s ” only. Reject substitutes as they are
worthless. Trade mark, an Elephant.*
One of the best managed and largest hotels in Sydney s
he Great Northern, corner Charlotte Place and George-
street. Having been thoroughly renovated, Travellers will
find 1 the cosiest place in Sydney. The shilling lunoheon
ere nse.*
Tattersall’s Monster Consultations.—Rosehill Handicap,
run November 12, 2000 subs, at 205.; also, Sir Joseph Banks
13th Grand Handicap, 5000 subs, at 20s. each, now open, and
filling rapidly. Apply Tattersall, care G. Adams, Pitt-
street*
BEACH IN TRAINING.
Is the heading of an article in Saturday Morn-
ing’s Telegr pa in which it says, directly Mr.
Wm. Beach places his boat into the shed, he
makes for a shower bath, and a glass of that
famous St. Louis Lager Beer, the admiration of
the man who has trained on it for every race;
who has made himself as well as the St. Louis
Lager Beer, famous all over the world. The next
time he pulls anyone on the Nepean, he will be
able to pull himself to Sydney, overland in pre-
ference to be driven there in a second class
carriage, with two common candles placed in an
old bottle as a substitute for a lamp. Surely the
great champion deserves batter treatment than
that. It may be a mistake, but those mistakes
are noticed by Beach’s friends.
Many people refuse to take Cod Liver Oil on account of its
unpleasant taste This difficulty has been overcome in
“ Scott's Emulsion op Cod Liver Oil with Hypophos-
piiites. It teing as palatable as milk and the most valuable
remedy known for the treatment of Consumption, Scrofula
and Bronchitis has caused Physicians in all p’rts of the
world to use it. “ I have found I Sc itt’s Emulsion ’ of
great benefit in the treatment of phthisical and scrofulous
diseases. It is extremely palatable and does not upset the
stomach, thus removing the grfat difficulty experienced in
the administration of the plain Oil.
D. P. Kenna, L.R C.S.,
Surgeon, St. Vincents Hospital, Dublin.
Large and small bottles at all Chemists.*
Summer ! Hookings and Co., have Australian Wines
from one to two guineas, doz —143 Pitt-street.*
WORKING-MEN.
Befoie you begin J our heavy spring work after a winter of
relaxation, you system needs cleansing and strengthening
to prevent an attack of Ague, Bilious or Spring Fever,
that will unfit you for a season’s work. You will save time,
much sickness and g>eat expense if you will use one botde
of Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters in your family this
month. Don’t wait. " Burlington.Bawkeye.'’.
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
HENRY THORPE, Proprietor,
Late of the Baden Baden Hotel, Coogee.
THE most elevated and central position in Sydney, at Top of King-street, adjacent to all Law
Courts, Maoquarie-street, Hyde Park, Domain, and the Botanical Gardens.
Private Suites, Ladies’ Drawingroom, and good airy Bedrooms.
The Hotel Is replete with every Convenience. Baths fitted with hot and cold water, Telephonlo
communication. Telegraphic office in Hotel.
The Hotel ow under entirely new management, and the present proprietor trusts by careful atten
tlon to business to make The Oxford a Comfortable Home for Visitors or Residents of Sydney.
LAWLER’S CENTRAL EMPORIUM
608 George-street, Sydney.
CABINET FACTORY-Kont-atreet, City.
UPHOLSTERY WORKS-5,5a,5b Union-lane
City
STEAM BEDDING FACTORY—Union-lane City.
STORES—Union-lane, and Glebe.
In addition to being <_ O MPLETE THROUGH-
OUT FURNISHERS, ‘ Lawler’s” are UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS. READ THE FOLLOWING DE-
PARTMENTAL LIST :
We will commence with BOOTS and SHOES and
CLOTHING instead of with FURNITURE and
BEDSTEADS, prices of which willba found at the
end of the list.
BOOTS LAWLER’S Infants’, Is., la. 3d., Is. 6d.,
&o.
SHOES LAWLER’S Infants’, 9d., Is , Is. 3d., &c.
BOOTS LAWLER’S Boys School, 2s, lid., 3s. lid.,
Is. lid,, &c.
BOOTS LAWLER’S Men’s hard wearing, ss. Id.,
5s lid., 63. lid., 7s. 6d., &c.
SHOES LAWLER’S Ladies’ House, 3s. 3d., 3s.
lid., Is lid., &o.
BOOTS LAWLER’S Youths’ Walking, 6s. 9d., 7s.
6d., 7s. lid &c.
SHOES LAWLER’S Dancing and Court, 3s, 3d,
BOOTS LAWLER'S Ladies' Walking E.S., Is. 6d.,
is. lid , 5s 91., &c.
BOOTS LIWLER’S Gents.’ Walking Laceups
7s. 6d„ Bs. 6d., &c.
BOOTS LAWLERS Ladies’ Best Parisian, I3s.
6d., 155., 17s, 61.
BOOTS LAWLER’S Gents.’ very best, 10s, 6d.,
12s. 61., 13s 61.
CLOTHING LAWLER’S Boys’ Tweed Knloker
Suites, Is. 91., Is. 111., ss. 61., See.
CLOTHING LAWLER’S Boys’ Extra Super. Suites
7s. 6d., 9s 6d., 10s. 6d., &c.
CLOTHING LAWLER’S Youths’ Long Trouser
S lits, 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d., &c.
CLOTHING LAWLER’S Men’s Tweed Trousers*
3s. lid., Is lid,. ss. fid.
CLOTHING LAWLER’S Men’s Colonial Tweed
Trousers, 7s. lid.
CLOTHING LAWLER’S Mole Trousers, Is lid.,
ss. fid., ss. lid.. Sec.
CLO THING LAWLER S Splendid Bedford Cords,
11s. fid.
CLOTHING LAWLER'S Trousers and vests,
Tweed. 10s. 6d., 2s. 6d., &c.
CLOTHING LAWLER’S Trousers and Vests, best,
155., 17s. 61., 19s. Gd.
CLOTHING LAWLER’S Full Sac Tweed Suits,
18a 6d., 195., 19s. 61., &c.
CLOTHING LAWLER'S Fancy Tweed Sac Suits,
225. 6d. 255.
CLOTHING LAWLER'S Best Sunday Suita, 275.
6d., 325. 6d., 355.
MERCERY LAWLER’S White Shirts, linen
fronts, 2s. lid., 3s. 6d., 3s. lid., &c.
MERCERY LAWLER S Best White Shirts, Elys6e
Cuffs, Is. lid., See.
MERCERY LAWLER’S Hard Felt Hats, 2s. lid.,
3s. fid., 3a. lid , &c.
MERCERY LAWLER S Fashionable Best Hats,
ss. 6d , 6s. 6d., 7s. 6d.
MERCERY LAWLER’S Hosiery, Braces, Um-
brellas Scg.
MERCERY LAWLER’S Fancy Washing Ties,
s|d., each.
MERCERY LAWLER’S Studs, Pins, Solitaires,
Links, &c.
MERCERY LAWLER’S Fancy Silk Ties and
Snorffil Qrt 1o Aaoh
DRAPERY LAWLER’S Ladies’ Night Dresses,
excellent value.
DRAPERY LAWLER’S Ladies’ and Girls
Corsets, Is. lid. to 11s. 6d.
DR APERY LAWLER'S Ladies' Underclothing—
a special department.
DRAPERY LAWLER’S Beautiful Prints, 2fd.
to 6d yard.
DRAPERY LAWLER’S Cashmeres, Merinos,
C&shmerettos.
DRAPERY LAWLER’S Beautiful Dimities, Is.
Id. yard, worth Is. lid.
DRAPERY LAWLER’S 15 C/s. Parachutes, just
opened.
DRAPERY LAWLER’S Beautiful London Para-
chutes, 4s. 6d. to 11s. 6d.
DRAPERY LAW LER’S Splendid Stock of Dents
Gloves, just opened.
DRAPERY LAWLER’S Ladies Beautiful Gloves
Is. lid., 2s. 3d., 2s. 6d., 2s. 9d.
DRAPERY LAWLER'S Needles, Pins, Thread,
Tape, &c., at less than coat.
DRAPERY LAWLER’S Fashionable Ladies
Gloves, 3s. 6d. to 4s. 6d.
DRAPERY LAWLER’S Mosquito Neb, 120 in.
■wide, Is Id. yard.
DRAPERY LAWLER'S Laces, Net, Muslins,
Frillings, &c., &c.
DRAPERY LAWLER’S Calicoes, Linens, Towel’
ling, &c , &c.
FURNITURE LAWLER’S Marble Washstauds,
full singles, 20s.
UPHOLS I'ERY LAWLER’S Drawing - room
Suites, £l7 10s. to £3O.
FURNITURE LAWLER'S Dining Tables, 14s.
63. to £lO 10s.
BEDSTEADS LAWLER’S Full Massive Double
“ Fourposts,” 50s. to 60s.
UPHOLSTERY LAWLER’S Couches In Hair-
cloth, 475. 6d., 655., 755.
FURNITURE LAWLER’S Sideboards, £1 155,.
£5 15s. £7 10s.
BEDSTEADS LAWLER’S Full Massive Double
“ Half Testers," 455. to 555.
BEDDING LAWLER’S Thick well-made Double
Palliasses, 10s. 6d. to 12s. 63.
UPHOLSTERY LAWLER’S Luxurious Eugene
Couches, £3 19 J .
FURNITURE LAWLER’S Large size Chest
Drawers, 475. 6d.
BEDSTEADS LAWLER'S See the Stout Keyless
Single Stump, 12s. 6d.
BEDDING LAWLER'S See the Stretcher, Chair
Bedsteads and Cushions, 215., 255, 30s»
BEDDING LAWLER’S Best Java Kapok Mat-
IRONMONGERY LAWLER’S Pots and Pans at
lowest rates.
GLASSWARE LAWLER’S Tumblers, 2s. Od,
dozen.
CHINAWARE LAWLER’S Full Breakfast Sets
17s. 6d., 19. 3 . 6d., 255., &c.
IRONMONGERY LAWLER’S Kettles, Grid
Irons, Mincers, &c., &o.
GLASSWARE LA LER'S Cut Tumblers, 6|i
I eac h Sc c.
GLASSWARE LAWLER'S Butters and Sugars
each.
E ART HE N WARE L AWLER’S Cheavin’s Filters,
•• beairties," Tls. 6d. to 28s.
CARPETS LAWLER'S Best assorted Stock in
Sydney.
FLOORCLOTHS LAWLER’S Nairn’s Extra
Supers, 3s. lid. to 4s. 6d.
HEARTHRUGS LAWLER’S From 3s. 3d. to
£3 3s.
Call or write.
Established 1860.
LAWLER’S
608 GEORGE-STREET,
SYDNEY.


Xx2Q.porta,:n.t I
Good News to Lovers of Music.
IMMENSE REDUCTIONS!
TEEIEj onlt
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION,
674
GEORGE ST, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY:
Beg to inform their many patrons and the public
that, as the duty on Instruments terminate or
Sept. 30th; they will sell
CHEAPER THAN EVER!
o
ACCORDEONS, at 7/6, 10/6. 12/6. 16/-, 17/6, 21/
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, to £6.
Speciality : Patent steel noted Accordeon, double
bellows, 27/6.
i> Patent German Silver Reeded Ac
cordeon, double bellows, 30/-,
/6, 6/6, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-,
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Genuine Lachenal Anglo German 35/
„ „ steel notes 50/
7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Specialty: Old copy Violin, with case, Bow
Strings, Resin and Tutor for 30/-.
6/-, 7/6, 10/-, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-,
up to £l2 12s.
Speciality j Walter Howard Model Nickel Banjo,
60s.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10a.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality I 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case,
by best English maker, for £2 10s.
Sole Agents in Australia
for
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
Bin mo STEWS,
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6,
6/- and 5/6 a set,
Single ones in proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d,, and Is. each,
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d., Is., and Is. 3d. each.
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Bnitar, Cello, Viola, Double Base, Harp,
Zithar, &c,, &c,
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT.
Orders promptly attended to, and all instru-
ments oarefully packed and sent to any part of
the oolonies.
Enquiries attended to by return of post,
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
674 GEORGE STREET,
hum., ;
Gamma
13.
// min
¥
&
JEczema on Scalp.
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
jDf
V/
Scrofula on iSeck
PI M PLES to SCROFU LA
DISEIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cutioura Soap and a single application oi
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin anc
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
BOlvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy
•icians; have spdnt hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies.
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
hook, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Town* & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVER , the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Cheat Skin Cube (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege
table poison whatsoever, Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
throughout Australia, Tasmania, and Hew
iit/UiUd. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$l. Kj ; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shay-
wo ic/p, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
pci 'wiUe.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug A Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
sa
v. mar-”r L" “3/“
“-“n‘vfﬁz “VF” , W
\C‘“ ‘ Km’_ x. Mira"
\ ~»:‘v!*‘;|'w\‘*~ ’7 53““ 'Q” "‘
ﬂv‘résax -«=~.1'ly " : '
. ‘ "m ‘C-‘ﬁ'iu‘. , .\ 1.7- '“-:‘r:"‘*_; "'
, ,' Mv ,, IN~ ‘
' _ ‘Nl' - 5 M [
,VJL’ - 7 ' ‘4 ~N\" ' l5
é-- :7, ;Z‘r:?=ﬁ¥; - " v M ‘
The
‘POTSHOT 3
Camera.
\ r
IS the Latest Novelty in the Photographic World. It is small, strong, very simple, handsomely got
up and atrociously effective both on friends and on enemies. Six circular pictures, each about the
size of a crown piece, can be taken on one plate with most astonishing speed and perfect accuracy.
This Camera can be worn under a coat or dress, the lens projecting through a button-hole cannot be
observed and the simple action of pulling a cord hands down to either reverence or ridioule every
incident included within the scope of its vision. The “POTSHOT” Camera is not a toy, but a
really serviceable instrument of the class known as DETECTIVE Cameras. At the same time
an immense amount of fun can be got out of it, and photographs of people and things obtained with
ease which are practically impossible by any other method. A limited number only have been
imported by us, and they are well worth the attention of the general public.
Full particulars can be had, and goods seen, at
LICHTNER AND CO.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK WAREHOUSE,
32 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
MASON BROTHERS,
rag
111911
1.1
1 19131: 11
1 \.
1 ‘ . Wbem
1 ‘ ‘1 1 1"
1‘ . 1 1 1x
‘1 111‘ .1 111 11
1 1 " 111
11 11 11
11111 111' 1 11
. 111.1pm“1.1111111_ ' 1
LIMITED,
203 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARES
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO. S
Cognac.
Hi T. GAYEN'S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
M
ONUM B N T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Bailing!.
Deilgni and Bitimatei forwarded on reqnai
J. CiniHlHfiHAfi,
lUIIHIUIT, WTHWASI>-B«UA*H, BTBK3E
WE can recommend the Imperial Hair-Cut-
ting Saloon as the best in Brisbane.
Tobacoo and cigars of the best brands. Address t
Temple Building, George-street, six doors from
Qneens-street. A, COOPER, Proprietor,
BECONBFIELD HOTEL
(West Beach),
ST. KILDA, VICTORIA.
THE above beautifully-situated hotel has re-
cently been greatly altered and improved,
and is now ready for the reception of -gues's.
Si.uated immediately on the shores of the Bay,
yet it is within five minutes’ walk of the St.
Kilda Railway Station, so that vi&ito’s, while
cpjoying the luxury of a sevside residence, can,
within 20 minutes, be in the busy centre of Mel-
bourne. Convenient access has been made to the
extensive promenade on the roof, from which
magnificent views can be obtained of the Bay
and Shipping, Government House and Albert
Park Lake, Mounts Macedon, Yoti Yang, and
Dandenong Ranges.
E. A. COOPER, Proprietress.
PERCY GIBBS, Manager.
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
MACKAY.
UNSURPASSED accommodation for oommer-
oial travellers, and families,
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy meets every steamer.
I make comfort of travellers a special study,
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V, ROBINSON,
Proprietor,
The science of life,
By W. Knox Parker, M.D.
A Book for young and old men, 200 pages*
bound in doth, and contains over 100 prescrip]
tlons. Price, post paid, 3s. 6d. Descriptive
sample free. Those suffering from Nervous ex-
haustion and Diseases should send at onoe for this
valuable work. Address J Dootor W. K,
Parker, Post Office Chambers, oorner Bonrke and
Elisabeth Streets, Melbourne, Vio.
BRAQIE.T ft LAMB
(In liquidation),
FURNITURE «na PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS,
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPR N© and C’CONNELL STREET
Full suites for dining-room.— side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, al
to match.
Self-adjusting hammock chair
Patented.
43
(Wti
sa
S £
This chair adjusts itself to any pos tion, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous ositions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. £3T We can
now supply portable suspension Stands to enable
the Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with
Stand 30/-; Without Stand 25/-.
Packin in canvas, if required 2s. 6d.
Drawing-room suites7FashionabiyUp
holstered, at all prices.
Occasional tables in ail woods, immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &c.
• V
m
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid,
ing Trays, Stationery Draw,
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
.Vi'u‘hzhgg'l'yj -
"Ina "LHVI'HVWMJMW f
’ILN'E
ruﬁ' LT K
Any 21—— £123
ﬁrminm
v: '5 r7? 4‘
" me ,
T\ RAWING ROOM OABI
NETS,
EARLY EN GLISH
CHIPPENDALE
DESIGNS.
Large stock of pianofortes by the
MOdi CELEBRATED MAKERS,
I
A.US CHAIR
In
GRBAT VARIETY,
And a complete assor ;
ment of Bent W o
Furniture the bestmak e
only.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bet•
rooms. New designs covered to order la
any material,
SELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH. Her
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
ROCKING easy chairs, elegant and rest-
ful, a specialty,
2; ‘,__< .
j' a;
‘:
Hfh- ."'T‘“.‘,
‘4 .’1 ”If/31'2“"
\
"OEDSTEADS, All dies
■*"* Nickel-plated and Black
and Brau. great rarlatr.
Bedding,—All descriptions 1 1
lowest rates.
V2
SPRING MATTItASSB 1
Woven Wire, bait
mnke i Also, Spiral Spring -
Price, from Ue, ssci l ,
CHBAP FURNITURE. —Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d. j Dining Tables, from 20s. j Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12a. 6d.|
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.) Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80b.j Cedar Side*
boards, from £3 20s.| Clothes Horses, from 10s. 30,
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 80s.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
(in liquidation),
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING 36 O’CONNELL STREETS


The Referee
Beach, in a true and fairly-sculled race,
again defeated Hanlan on Saturday lasb on the
Nepean, and Hanlan may now for ever hold bis
peace as to his ability to beat Beach. At 200
yards, with boats no3e-and nose, it looked as if
the struggle was to to a bitter one, but Beach
commenced to draw out
a lead, which he con-
tinued to increase until
he took Hanlan’s water
at the mlle-pcst, when
the race settled down
into the proverbial pro-
cession, Beach winning
by three lerglhs in
19min. 55$ieo. That’s
all, except that, as usual,
Hanlan says Beach is a
perfect gentleman, and
Beach says the race was
the hardest he ever
rowed in all his life.
Finis.
* -*
There are only two
certainties in this world
Grim Death and Wil-
liam Beach.
* *
Without a doubt,
Bendigo is one of the
soundest and best
thoroughbreds that the
world has seen. Since
winning the Jubilee
Stakes of £lO,OOO at San-
down Park, he has won
the Champion Stakes and
run second for each of
the two big handicaps at
Newmarket, carrying
close upon ten stone. No
strictly English - reared
horse ever preserved form
like this after turning
six years. Bendigo
springs from ould Ire-
land, where youngsters
are allowed a chance to
build up their constitu-
tions before being asked
to pay the training bill.
* * *
A long time ago
there was on Bendigo a
Cornish mine” who was
wondrously strong, and
rather fancied himself as
a fighter, though he
couldn’t box a bit. Some
of the boys, thinking to
take him down a peg
(and make some money
for themselves at the
same time), got a pro-
fessional pugilist from
Melbourne to challenge
him. Bill and his friends
accepted the defi, and
the bruiser came along.
When they stepped into
the ring they shook hands
—and Bill gripped his
professional friend’s paw
with such a vice-like
squeeze that he smashed
several bones therein for
a start. That settled the
fight. Bill couldn’t
punch, but he won hands
down.
* # #
Cudgegong (N. S. W.)
holds tho boss baby of
the day. The young
giant is 8 months old ;
and is 3ft. lOin. high,
loin, round thigh, Sir.
round muscle tf arm,
227,in. round stomach,
and 21in round chest
Heavy weight cham-
pions would do well to
scoro all llio wins they
can before that youngster
visits Foley’s.
* *
Fifty £l-tickets for
Miller's Cup Consulta-
tion Sweep wero dis-
covered the other day in
the pocket of a dead man
found floating in the
Yarra, Verdict—a clean
sweep.
With regard to Burke’s objection to fight
Jackson, did not Kilrain, now matched to fight
Smith, fight Godfrey, the crack American black ?
And we have not heard of any objection by the
Americans to meet Kilrain, at least not on those
grounds.
* * *
However, Burke is not to be allowed to leave
Sydney without having a flutter, as Larry Foley,
who has just got married and looks as if he were
in training for an aldermanic banquet, has stepped
into the breach, and will meet the British pugilist
in a six-rounds encounter. Hum!
* * *
Nemesis ! Hanlan has discovered that the
rules of boatraciog should be altered to the extent
that the leadiog man should be prevented from
giving his opponent his wash. Has Hanlan for-
gotten the day he played the clown in front of
Ned Trickett, waving his cap to the girls, drink-
ing out of the river, and wantonly giviDg his wash
to the distressed Australian, first with one scull
and then with the other ? He can now imagine
poor old Ned’s feelings.
* * *
If boats could speak, they would sink
themselves with curses hurlel at all aim tour
yrewe. When sailed by pros., the Nereus twice
defeated the Genesta in Sydney Harbour this
season. On Saturday last, with amateur crews
up, the Genesta defeated the Nereus.
* * *
Beach says he has rowed his last race.
This is light enough, but it should not prevent
him rowing exhibition races. A small fortune
awaits him in England and the States in the show
business, and he w.ll be mad not to take advan-
tage of his opportunity.
* * *
Hon. Hawke says that when the two
English teams combine to play all Australia the
combination will represent All England, with the
except’on of W. G. Grace.
• * *
Beach says he trained on St. Louis lager
beer. He also won on it. Judging from the re-
sults, Hanlan drank something else.
• * *
Stcddartis a footballer as well as cricketer,
and plays with All England in the internationals.
* * *
A little rule-of-three sum. If Jack Want
and his capacious person put the launch Leila
down an inch at the Hanlan-Beach boat-race, by
The New Euclid.
how many parts of an inch would three half-
starved poor devils of reporters have increased
her draught? If this is worked out before next
boat-race it might be found an advantage to leave
Johnny out and give the Press a chance.
* * *
"Why have the Cricket Selection Com-
mittee chosen Ted Evans ? Has not the “ Fakir”
had his day ?
» * *
Public opinion appears to have justified
Hanlan’s choice of the Nepean for his final go at
Champion William. What was previously derided
as a “ fad ” is now accepted as another proof of
the Canadian’s deep knowledge of the business he
has followed for 16 years.
Cynical people say that Sydney police have
prosecuted the organiser of Tattersall’s racing
lottery, Bimply out of sheer envy of the policeman
who won £4500 therein the other day. Consider-
ing that the sweep has uninterruptedly been
going on for years there seems some grounds for
this conclusion.
* * *
The President of an Eoglish football asso-
ciation has been created a C. M, G. For services
on many a bloody field, we suppose.
* * *
The celebrated English horse Bendigo
won the Cambridgeshire in 1883, and ran second
for the same handicap in ’B4, ’B5, and ’B7. What
Australian thoroughbred ever showed such con-
sistent form for so long a period ?
* * *
Certain London papers notably the
Daily Telegraph —tried to palm off Tom Lees as
a “representative Australian” boxer after his
defeat by Bill Goode. The latter was exalted into
a phenomenon of British pluck, meeting a better
man and wearing him down by dint of bulldog
pertinacity, See. “Pendragon” properly speaks
of the affair as a veiy ordinary glove-fight, and
further states that Lees was overtrained.
A poor fellow called Tristan, writing about
Turf Nomenclature in the Grand Old Jernel,
says “Tranter, a trawler." Very likely, but
Tranter was the inventor of the double-action re-
volver, and the horse is by Musket.
* -ft
Sydney D.T. has dropped across another
“quiet, unassuming” athlete, this time in the
person of Mr. Peter Kemp. Why every athlete
who doesn’t “paint the town red ” is dubbed “a
quiet, unassuming fellow,” is beyond us. How-
ever, if Kemp hasn’t painted the town red, he has
done the next best thing by smashing up Neil
Matterson’s erstwhile Grecian nasal appendage.
Just about the time this occurred, Peter was not
considered by the dailies a “ quiet, unassuming
athlete.”
# * ■*
Affluence and Sammy Cracknell have been
going to pull off something big any time these
two years past. They annexed the Sandhurst
Cup last week, to the entire satisfaction of their
faithful followers. Affluence war thought to have
a good show for the Melbourne Cup of ’B6, but,
unfortunately, went wrong before the race.
•* ' •
Sutton, a “ splendid seaman,” from
H.M.S. Nelson, entered for a middle-weight box-
| ing contest at Victor’s Hall, Melbourne. The
I gallant tar was drawn against “The Stranger,”
and after “The Stranger” had pasted him for two
rounds, the tar ignominiously took the knock, and
was led off to the strains of “ Hearts of Oak are
our Men.” This incident lias shaken our faith in
the efficiency of the British fleet in Australian
waters. The splendid seaman is seen at his best
in comic opera.
In the Sydney District Court. Judge
Dowling to Solicitor Bull, “ I cannot stand these
tedious cases. lam not as lusty as you." Solicitor
Bull : “lam not lusty, your Honor.” Judge
Dow ling : “No ! why, I thought all Bulls were
lusty. Judge Dowling, by the way, says he was
the “first boy who entered the Sydney Grammar
School.” Very likely. The disadvantages of
having been educated in a Crown colony are even
now very apparent in many of his sentences and
in nearly all of his jokes.
A cricket match between N.S.W. and
Queensland aboriginal teams came off at Argledool
(N.S.W.) the other day. They held a con-ob—
banquet, we mean- afterwards at the local hotel,
all the samo as white i feller, my word. Proceed-
ings were wound up
with a speech from the
captain of the winning
team, who eloquently ob-
served as he drew his
sleeve across his mouth,
that he felt cobbon bud-
gerie, and hoped they
would soon be able to go
alorg-a Eoglan’ and play
’im Englisman for gate-
money to buy ’im rum
and ’bacca. ‘‘ The meet-
ing then terminated."
Father Hugrgard, of
Bourke (N.S.W.) abduc-
tion notoriety, is a poet.
He published, a few years
ago, in Sydney, a volume
of hymn?.
Haynes, M.P., has
in his paper four para-
graphs in each of which
he is described as “Mr."
Haynes. John is right
on the road to become a
C.M.G.
With his accustomed
forethought Parkes didn’t
let the N.S.W. Civil ser-
vants know that their
salaries were to be cut
down, and many of them
sacked altogether, until
all the subscriptions to
the Parkes’ Fund were
got in.
The larrikins of
Sydney have been as
saulting the hangman.
Sometime in the last
generation the effete Art-
ful Dodger thought he
had scored a point when
he “cheeked the beak.”
The idea of walloping the
executioner never oc-
curred to that backward
youth.
When Duncan Gillies,
now Premier of Victoria,
wa3 professionally en-
gaged in haranguing the
gold-miners, in Crimean-
shirt and moleskins, he
usedn’t to talk about
giving an extra £6OOO
to the Governor for the
purpose of “entertain-
ing distinguished visi-
tors.” If he had, he
would in all probability
have been left pottering
penniless about somo
abandoned hole instead
of being washed, de-
cently dressed, and pro-
vided with money to
enter Parliament solely
in the interest of the
working man.
Quong Tart, of Syd-
ney, appropriates a large
slice of glory to himself
for employing only one
Mongolian to 10 Euro-
peans in his hot-scone
and tea establishments.
We fail to see whoro all
the glory fits in. If
Bruddor Tart thinks ho
is sacrificing himsolf on
the altar of his adopted
country let him fill the
places of his pretty wait-
resses with pigtailed cari-
catures from Botany, and
see which pays best. As
an asylum benefactor,
Lord Tart is a jolly good
fellow, but when he at-
tempts to prove that it is
pure philanthropy that
keeps him from employ-
ing potential lepers to
butter the buns he is at-
tempting too much.
Temora (N.S.W.) people want P. M.
General Roberts to carry the mails batween Young
and Temora twice a week. That’s a fair request;
but who’s going to run the Crown and Anchor
Hotel in Mr. Roberts’ absence ?
Poulton, the ex-bank manager, now under-
going the penalty of ill-directed religious enthu
siasm, was a “ queer card” in his financial career.
One day, whilst in conversation with a leading
merchant of Orange, N. S. W., touching some import-
ant banking transaction, a drunken bullock-driver
with an unmanageable team and a heavy load
attracted his attention. The driver was, as usual,
“speaking French” very fluently, but without
avail—the bullocks would not “ gee." The banker
could no longer restrain himself, so, quitting his
client, he went to the driver’s assistance, relieved
him of his great whip, and amid such ejaculations
as “Gee ! whoa ! Bally !” drove the team from. the
centre of the town of Orange to the camping-
ground, a few miles distant. The police magis-
trate who sentenced Poulton to two months’ gaol
for causing a disturbance on a railway platform,
gave the prisoner to understand that his Chris-
tianity was very displeasing to the dispensers of
justice ; that they had no sympathy with his
belief, and to show that he meant what he said,
sent him to prison,
There was a big sculler named Beach,
Who had rather more muscle and reach
Than the smiling Canuck,
Who showed plenty of pluck,
And to his man stuck like a leech,
And after the race had been won
The loser was scarcely more done
Than the winner, ’twas p’ain.
If they rowed once again
We would take just a thousand to one.


McLMAN BBOS., BIGG * CO.,
IKONVroWGIRS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
61$ urn >Ri4S «TRE«*T, SYUKIY,
o
VO
c
'wfißO
s
IRONMONGERS
12
5
X
o
V
<*
o
<5
REG?
<fc
«r
SPECIALITIES |
Dull’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Flie-proot Paint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
GAS COOKING STOVES i—LEONIS FLETCHER'S, JEANS ft WALKER'S
BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES, fcc., fee,
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
WAXrrim m EVERT HOUSE.
KR
mm
O -H
"M p
animals tg'
- /.AVI A
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS,
ALLNOXIOUS INSECTS,
IE AS FU £S BEETLES MOSQU
AND
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESSTG BIRDS
FOWLS OROTHER
ƒgf
<£> o
X
...
[*]■»]
liKlfl
FELTO'rT-Ekmwmzum
,, ‘* MELB,QHRNE_"__
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware oi
the numerous imitations
A LOVELY SKIN,
beautiful complexion, soft, smooth and delicate neck, face, hands and arms can best be obtained
by discarding all leaden and greasy cosmetics and cheap soaps, which, not being allowed to
remain on the skin canhot possibly have any good effect on it. and by using
ft®"®*' healing and refreshing preparation for the face, hands and arms of all
exposed to the heat and dust of summer or the cold and damp of winter; it eradicates freckles,
Can, sunburn, stings, redness and roughness of the skin caused by cold winds or the use of hard
water, removes pimples, spots, discolorations, chilblains, eczema, etc., relieves inflammation,
Duma, scalds, inflamed eyes, and renders a chapped and rough skin delightfully smooth and
Sleasant. Gentlemen after shaving will find it allays all irritation and tenderness of the skin;
'! 8 warranted free from any lead or mineral ingredients, can be used with impunity on the
won of the most delicate lady or child,
. . 4s. 6d. and Bs. 6d. per bottle; bottles of half the usual
size au zs. «ki.,
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL promotes the growth of the hair, and
is also sold m a golden colour for fair-haired people.
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO whitena the teeth, prevents decay, and gives a
pleasing fragrance to the breath. Ask anywhere for ROWLANDS’ articles, of 30, Hatton
Garden. London, and avoid cheap, worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents—Elliott Bros., and E. Prosser, & Co., Sydney.
«
w
T. WILLIAMS & 00.,
IMFOKTBRB OF
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes £
Alio Mannfictnreri of
Thb Finest Quality of Goods in the abovb Lines.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
HOES
HOE
genuine soda water.
T*BEE3
tyjkoa Mil Water Co
18 CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Perfeot Purity Guaranteed.
, BLACK’S LABOUR BUREAU,
CORRIDOR, TATTERSALL’S buildings,
Hunter and Castlereagh Streets,
Sydney.
Nn llS9holderb - Hotelkeepers, Stations, supplied
foi " aIL onths for ONE GUINEA. A Com-
V 16 Waiting Room.
Bum mm.
A HANDSOME
GOLD WATCH
6IVM A WAT.
This is a genuine
offer, and no humbug,
address for full particulars to
R. B. JONKS,
P.O. Box 570, Sydney,’
FREE
PRESCRIPTIONS are to
be found In the “LIGHT AND
life,” lor the Bpeedy cure of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &o. A copy of th»w
book will be sent free, Bealed. Address— tr~*~
8. WARD Sc C0...J
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter-street, Sydney,
MARSHALL'S
TONIC NERVINE
Trade Mark—“TONIC N’TCR'VINK."
Marshall 8 tonic nervine ~
'' Promotes Appetite
lmproves Digestion, ~
Cures Nervous Debility-
Sold by all Chemists and Btorekeepera—Prloe i /0,
Prepared only by
MARSHALL BROTHERS,
Sydney, N.S.W. j London, England,
THE BANK. OF NBW ZEALAND.
Sydney Branchesi
Si PITT-STREET, and 538 GEOROE-STREET.
Paid-np Capital ... ... £1,000.000
Reserve fund ... 600,000
The Bank has Agents In all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commer
eial and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
PATENT.^
PILLS. JS
&
Are admitted by Thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nerrous disorders,
such as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, Ac. The first
dose will give relief in
'ffrmHj minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
diene it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
tiSuy will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
m a few doses of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is mo medicine to be found to equal BEEOHAM’S
iHSLLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
a# the system. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
adl ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and »
few doses will be found to work wonders upon th®
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the TROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousands
rmbravoing all classes of society; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
SEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS
As a remedy for Goughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
mA%'f in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
te prove that they are the best ever offered to the
ran ha s for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
fcfsurseaess, and Oppression of the Chest, They
sr®B®djly remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
I- breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
Uiiey give almost instant relief and comfort to those
affiicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
vrith any of the above complaints give Bisohak’s
Ge'C' SW Finns a trial.
The'most violent Cough will in a short time he
removed.
Oautioit. —The public are requested to notice that
words “ Beecham’s Pmns, St. Helens,” are on the
Stoverament Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills,
•'tif not on they are a forgery.
i •repared only and sold wholesale and retail by
proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St, Helens,
fitaoashire, England, in boxes at Is. ltd, and 2s. 9d,
sack. —Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Qs&lers throughout the Colonies.
WoB. —Full directions are given with eab®. bos,
Commercial Hotel, Gympie, Queensland,
THE above is one of the oldest Family and
Squatting Hotels in the colony. Price*
reasonable. Sample Koom.
Superior accommodation. Hot and Cold Baths.
Mrs. W. COMPIGNK, Proprietress.
r ATKINSON’S >
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and naturei
ft aff ranee.
Three Gold Medals—
PAKIS.IB7B, CALCUTTA,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
GOLD MEDAL BOD&DET
ESS. BOUQUET
TREVOL
WOOD VIOLET
CHYPRE
and other well-known >'erfumes are un-
eq Hailed lor their delightful and lasting: odour
ATKINSON’S EAU DE TOUETTE OE LONOBES.
Unsurpassed for refreshing and softening the
skin, and an exceedingly choice Perfume for
the Handkerchief. An entirely new article
prepared exclusively by the Inventors.
Of all Dealer*, and of the Manufacturer s—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
2i, Old Bonn Stbebt, London.
. Trade Mark—“"White ltose'* 011“ Golden
Kv I.Tre." A
E
VKRYBODY
SHOULD USB
PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
PLCTJS!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE Is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
Is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL.
«** anmsi-miii. Brosr,,
Guinness' Eztib bw***,
FIRST QUALITY
M
*ADf
m
BASS’ PALE ALE.
SOLR PURVEYORS be bke
CSOIiOKIAX AID INDIAN BXDlEffltfaDlS.
LONDON.
By Special Appointmsr b.
WHOLESALE AGENTS
W. BALCHIN JOHNSTOK I CO.,
CiHßmial Cbniubcra, Rond-iinoi Sydney.
G. STEVENSON
Has On Sale—
WINE CASKS. BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c.
COOPERAGE.
387 KENT STREET, and 171 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market streets.
CRITERION HOTEL, NARRANDERA, N.S. W.
First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Plunge and shower bath. ’Bus meets every train,
J. E. PATTERSON,
Proprietor.
Good Sample Rooms.
Robert butcher & co.
Have Removed their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGE-STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool Streets.)
WINES, SPIRITS, AND BEERS, in and out Of
;Bond, at LOWEST RATES.,
PALACE HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND.
J. CRAMP, Proprietor (late of Rookampton),
CONDUCTED on the same principle as tho
great Melbourne t offee Palace. A very
large Billiard Room.
Prices as follows i—6s. per diem, All meals Is. 6d.
E
a
i
K
cr'T
UtENSLA.NV
asthma,bronchitis, coughs
AND ALL CHEST AFHECTIONS
_ PRt.PAR.t-D ONLY O .. w „
iTIWM'AS INGHAM.-
i HAM PTO.NI'
i
i
H
THE MOST WELCOME DISCOVERY
of Modern Times. A Cure for Pulmonary
CONSUMPTION.
TO the Consumptive, and all who suffer from
asthma, bronchitis, coughs, colds, haemorr-
hage, and all affections of the lungs, indigestion,
and diseases of the liver and kidneys, this notice
is of vital importance, for this remedy is genuine,
having cured, and is curing, the most stubborn
cases of the above diseases.
The afflicted need have no fear of it, and must
not regard this notlce.as the ordinary advertisement
of some quack medicine. The qualities of the
preparation are cleaning and healing, causes easy
and copious expectoration, and heals the lungs
through the blood, promotes digestion, and thus
aids the stomach to digest and assimilate nourish-
ing food for the formation of pure vitalising blood,
to repair diseased tissues, and maintain the vita!
powers. References and every satisfaction con-
cerning it given on application.
The Consumption Cure sent all over the colonies.
Also ST. VITUS’ DANCE perfectly cured within
eighty-four hours.
The above remedies are obtainable only from
Wili iam Ford and Company. Office, 4 Australia-
street, Newtown, Sydney.
T RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
tad ta now beinf introduced into the
Colon >c a-
fc very get a supply .
mi Wary wise certainly
use dt.
LQJ4DOH* JEHOISAN D.
m
NEWEST INVENTION—GREATEST NOVELTY
THE
Y s N
PTAENT DIAGONAL SEAM DORSET,
Patented in England and on the Continent-
Will not Split in the Seams nor Tear in the Fabric,
Exquisite Model. Perfect Comfort. Guaranteed Wear.
T7ie Queen Bays“ These Corsets are a new departure. The material is cut on the cross,
and the component parts being also arranged diagonally, the seams have no strain. They
are admirably modelled, exquisitely neat and strong, and the workmanship all that could
be desired.”
field Medal, Mew Zealand Exhibition, 1883
«old Medal, Highest Award
fob. Corsets, London International Exhi
bition, 1884.
Latest Award!!! Hold Medal Interna-
tional Exhibition, Edinburgh, 1880.
OA UTION.— Beware of worthless imi-
tations. Every genuine Y & N Corset is
stamped “Y & N PATENT DIAGONAL
SEAM CORSET No. 116," in oval.
CpU3M£^-
SOZD BY ALL DRAPERS AND LADIES’ OUTFITTERS IN TEE UNITED KINGDOM AND COLONIES


ra.uwen
ROYALMWAJ
WIK* 5
POWDER
Absolutely Pure.
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without tha aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
the Royal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with mpunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists,
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government, Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Bakins
Powder Co., 106 Wall-street, New York U.S.A,
Trade supplied by Moses Moss & Co., Sydney
N.S.W.
P. R. LARZON,
IMPORTER,
Family Wine and Spirit Merchant.
FCNIC and WEDDING PARTIES supplied with the Choioest Brands of WINES, SPIRITS,
and BEERS at the most Reasonable Prices, ALL RETURNS BEING ALLOWED FOR.
~ Notwithstanding the Heavy Customs Imposts, P. R, L. still Bells the Best Glass of RUM,
BRANDY, or WHISKY IN THE CITY FOR THREEPENCE'
* The SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT Is stooked with all the Leading Brands of WINES
SPIRITS, Sco., whieh are sold by the SINGLE BOTTLE AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL,
778 & 780 GEORGE STREET, SOUTH,
S7DMTBT.
WALLACH BROS.’
JSTBIW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AMD
60 CLABENCE STBEET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
<*TT ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRIOR LIST, FRRR ON APPLICATION,
WATT, AOH BROTHERS.
VENJ, VIBI VIOL
For Arcistio Posing and Effective Vi l
combining softness and brilliancy.
Photographs ofi
CHARLEM9NT
ROYAL AROADB,
STAND PRE-EMINENT!.? AliOj*.
GO THOU IHD DO LfflWl® 1
SUMMER, with It« heat, dhit and JJjjjJJ
effects, is on us, and one of tbegreate
we may enjoy (is a delightfully 000 l an “, ,, tlon of»
bath, made more luxurious jjy the . )rflC tiOß*
little “Sea Foam Shampoo.” Follow the vgjith'
and you will And it a most beneficial an jM
giving adjunct to the toilet. It will °
Hair, Scalp, and Skin, and leave them d tM
perfumed, will cure Scurf, Ringworm, ® ’jjgh#rt
head, and has the endorsement of t
medical authorities. The words JvLffftit®*
Shampoo” are registered, and any 00° fuU
imitation of same will be prosecuted <*> # od
extent of the law. Sold by all cbenu» of <#>*
dealers in toilet articles at the low P** JO*
shilling per packet. Please try one pao*»»
will never regret it.
THEATRE ROYAL,
ROCKHAMPTON.
en***"
rjIHE above is the only S
Rockhampton for holding
X . .
other Entertainments, and oan 00
any term upon application to _ -..ad,
CHARIiHSSI
TIIO Wonder of tHO AS B,
COLEMAN and Sons, - ...
awarded First Prize at the Adela
tion for their PURE VOLATILE ftU
OIL. The only known cure for Asth®j’ fl9 .fla*
affections of the chest. We have ®° r ® pub”®*
testimonials than any medicine before t
This is a genuine article. Posted to * l o®<
on receipt of stamps. Price, Is. 6d. a (jo.
Agents, Hoflhung & Co.; Elliott Bros. -
ASK YOUR QROOHR FOR
FRYS MALTED
COCOA!
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
"AX ORDINARY CUP CONTAINS MORI AOTIVH PROFRRTIRS OP
THAN A PINT OP THR BEST ALB OR POBTBR.”— LAMOMt.
HA**
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, Ac.
Brass and Ball Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Ooppernmnlthlng, Blacksmlthlng, Plumbing,
QaafltMng, Tank and Girder Building. Electric and Pneumatio Bell-fitting, of every description,
BOULTON’S "FLUSH," “VALVE," and “PAN" CLOSETS, “VACUUM" WATER*
WASTE, PREVENTERS, *O.
■ala Agents far Verity Brae., Patent Air Prepellers, BxMaast Van Cewls, Baa Fires, Beaters,
Warmers, As.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND 9 MACQUARIE-PUCE,
SYDNEY,
Full Fabiioulam and Pkics m AmiOAtios.
Custom House Hotel,
BUNDABERQ.
First-olaea Accommodation for Squatters, Com-
mercial Travellers, and others.
MT Private Suites for Families. Ttfe
Plunge and Shower Bath. Billiards,
Baggy meets every steamer.
HARRY MoCANN, Proprietor.
NORTHUMBERLAND HOTEL, Gympie.
First-glass Accommodation fob Visitors.
WINES AND SPIRITS OF THE CHOICEST
BRANDS.
J. F. E. STEWART, Proprietor.
Belle Vue
Z 2 IBRISB-AJSTBL I
Opposite Parliament Houses, Botanl®**
and Queensland Club,
a****'
FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HO l ®*
ACCOMMODATION FOB B ®’
A Walter Msete Every Ste*®***
Letters and telegrams plena®
prletor,
GRAND BOOKS FOR PRESENTS AND PRIZ^ S
CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR CARDS. ALL THE NOVELTIES OF THE SEASON NOW ON VIEW
BEAUTIFUL PHOTO. AND SCRAP ALBUMS, WORK BOXES, WRITING CASES, FANS, SCREENS, &c.
MUSlC—Newest Pieces, Songs, Dances, Glees, Christmas Carols, Anthems, Part Music, and Presentation Volumes
WILLIAM BULLARD, 342 GEORGE STREET.
o
0 <9
‘
'52?
«Var.
"rt." 63‘»: .
NEW BILLIARD TABLE SHOW ROOMS 8c FACTORY,
BILLIARD CUSHIONS, &0., MADE ON THE PREMISES,
Old Tables re-fitted by our own men.
CLOTHS, CUES,BALLS in stock, also CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS & BOWLS.
BURROUGHES & WATTS,
7, Little George Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W., and Soho Square, LONDON.
FITZROY HOTEL,
BAST STREET, ROCKAMPTON.
MT FIRST-CLASS FAMILY.HOTKIi,
Plunge and Shower Bath.
Private Sitting Room, without extra charge.
Good Stabling. Every Accommodation.
JAS. WILLIAMSON. Proprietor.
Clgra-r
(Next Royal Standard Theatre.)
r
Best kinds of Tobacco, Cigars and Pipes.
R. CLIFFORD,
CASTLEREAGH STREET.
COMMERCIALHOTEL, GOULBURN.N.S.W.
TTURST’CLASS accommodation for commercial
P gentlemen and others. Private sitting rodma.
ample rooms. JAMES SIMONS, Proprietor.
|» XC . R I L U X
(late of the Deteotoive£Foroe),
PrfTkte Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agenoy Office,
«l ROYAL AROADB, SYDNEY
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and all klndi of
JOnfidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
Itvoroe, libel, fraud, and incendiary oases, for the legal pro-
Icssion and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
Marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
Kents and debts collected. From R. M. R.’s long experience
in the Detective Force of New South Wales, viotoria, and
Kew Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
globe, he is in a position to oonduot all inquiries with oaution
KpKdttwa and strictest seoresy, and to and
jtcssptjr attend to all business entrusted to h oare.
AFTER BEFQBS
m
Copyrighted.
Moustache and Whiskers.
.. Boyd’s Beard Elixir did this, ,
laud will do it on either bald
'head or bare face■ Forces
heavy Moustache in from 2 to
4 weeks and never fails,2o,OOQ*
young men already wear full
• EFORB *f 7Elt
Copyrighted,
beards, having used, 1 to 3 pkts. A'o injury, easily applied, certain
in effect. Packets, Is. 6 d. each, 3 for 3s. Gd., post paid, sent under
cover, free from observation . Address, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent,
Box 730. G. P. 0., Sydney, N S. W.
HIGHty NUTRITIVE
£oeoa
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY'
3 *
THE most useful Invention of the Century for NATURAL HISTORY Students is WIESENER’S N. H. MICROSCOPE (6 x 4) and CABINET 3 % ° o i
marvel for completeness, portability, strength, cheapness, and_ suitability for the purpose Intended, jiz MOUNTING-CABINETS contains 3 Bottles
12 Slides 3 x 1, 12 Glasscovers, 1 Box of Labels, and 1 Spare Box: 1 (each) Microknife, Needle, and Tweezers, in strong Box with Slide Cover.
.1 i. o Ti' T> a _ a J__ _ I * ... x 7 • r*' 1 , -It * „ _• • ... - aitiOu** 1 '
.HP _ r ,_ x , , , . __ e „
of about 2in Focus. Box 6x4 (inclosing above when no*e in use) with Corktable for pinning specimen on while under examination, and any » m ° \, e of*’ jpt
ceptaoles for safely carrying and preserving specimen. Cabinet and Micro are contrived and constructed so as to stand the roughest use in transit and ca®
In coat pocket WITHOUT BEING TIED OR WRAPPED UP and will not open, spill, break, or hurt by being accidentally dropped or sat upon.
10s. Postage to any part of the Colony,. Is. Weight, fib. Send stamps or P. 0.0.
334= GBORGH &TBB2IT, 3D IN'33 "ST
