

The Bulletin
▼ol 7-No. aai.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 1, 1887."
Prlo*, (ML
“The Bulletin” New Year Card.
1687 (pointing to noose): “LOOK HERE, MR. ’SS, IT'S ABOUT TIME YOU WENT, BUT YOU MIGHT AS WELL TAKE THAT THING WITH YOU. I DON'T WANT TO DO
YOUR-DIRTY WORK.”


HIGH WATER MARK.
Thousand Fmi Hundrhd .
THE BULLETIN.
rtIUUKO ORCI A WEEK,
At Si Prrr-wrßzrr, Sydnkt, N.B.W,
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable la Adr&ace).
Per annum - - - - £.l Oe. Od.
fialf-yoarjy - - - - 0 12s. Od.
Quarterly - - - - O 6e. 6d-
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters
payable to
J. M. HARDING,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
nd remittances should be addressed.
NOTICE.
Herling—which you may pay by Port OBloj Order, Ooe-
hare Tna Bullitk ported regularly to you trery week for
TBS Bcllktin U urt dellTered by maif, tmt U entirely^
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 1, lMf.
[?]
SAxdilubst is a thriving Victorian city of
80)000 inhabitants. It returns Ithreo mem-
bers to Parliament, and at tho fast election
chose as it* junior representative a thriving
young publican named Bailes. Some nights
ago, on the occasion of a Parliamentary pro-
posal to invite the Prince of Wales to visit
Victoria for the approaching Exhibition, Mr.
Bailes gave his opinion concemingtheHoir-
Apparent to the Empire on which the sun never
seta in a monnor that called forth a roar of
.condemnation. Bo subsequently repented, i
and apologised for the views ho was unfortu-
nate enough to entertain regarding the
Prince’s private character. His constituents, I
however, met in public to consider and con-
cUiim their repKaeuMfS ouUpokomic.
Judging by -*(trrep.,rt. before lie, opinio,,,
wore pretty equally divid'ed between con-
epproviU. Some of the view,
wOiiumorated wefo curious in their way. A
sincere loyalist, Mr. Maynard, said that
“Her Majesty had the greatest love and
adoration in the old country," while her
eldest son, whatever his indiscretions might
be, was beloved by the people of England.”
A Mr. Helm observed that “a republic is
not foundod on a monarchy excepting
through torronta of blood.” Various other
remarks of a similarly profound character
were interjected before the orush and up-
roar caused an adjournment to tho street,
where, after considerable confusion and clash
of opinions, the’ Heir-Apparent’s character
was satisfactorily vindicated, and a vote as to
the soundness of the monarchical system was
carried with what tho Mayor thought re-
markable unanimity— considering that onlv
about half the crowd voted against it.
The two principles of hereditary rule and
of personal loyalty to an hereditary ruler
have gono hand in’hand in retarding where
they could not stem the world’s enfranchise-
ment. In theory they are so unsound, and
have proved so pomirious in practico, that it
is marvellous how men can to-day bo found
to defend them. “ What, then, is the great
root of all our grievances I" demanded
Cromwell. To-which Pym replied : “ Tho
aristocracy. Give us their true history and
you unriddle tho secret of every national
embarrassment." Tho answer did not cover
tho whole ground. It was tho truth, but not
the whole truth. To complete it the words
“ »nd tho monarchy ” were necessary. In
the history of mankind there-is no bloodier
nor tneaner chapter than that filled by the
lives of monarehs, by those puppets before
whom mon in thoir blindness and in direct
contravontion of God’s warning through the
mouth of His servant Samuel prostrato
turns wifh disgust from
’ ho ' v I>ruv ° nion gave up
r c women thoir virtue to
‘ of thoso whose actions
, i the Nowgate Colon-
-1 go on thoir knees at
11 that they should
*o bow bofore;
•hoico should so
of their kind.
• as heredity
sadness of
for infinite
- .WtiILME JBNNJXUXjIotj.): " 1 a nation’s
t. H is‘not
’ing at all.
a fribblo
! Ugh !
— : ; • itnessed
din no
land more frequently than in our own. ' Nor
is there tho least prospect of its disappear-
ance until the mischievous fiction of horedity
in Government is presented in its proper
light before its final relegation to*thc great
limbo of exploded shams.
Wo are far from saying that under the
present system of what a recent writer aptly
calls “ animal succession ” n -fairly respcct-
ally come to the throSS.
happens to be a monarch it by no means,
follows that his children must necessarily bo
fools. Still, this does not much mfcsd tho
matter. Tho harm that may be done By one
incompetent or dissolute ruler may outweigh
the gisnl to be derived from tho guidanco of
a long line of able and docoroua ones. Tako
our own George 111. for instance. Judged
by the standard of his day he was not a
naturally bad man. In his narrow-minded
intolerant way he aimed at what he thought,
was tho good of his peoplo and tho so-called
glory, of, his country. True, ho was quite
unfit to govern, but os the laws of tho land'
demanded that lie should fall into the [dace
vacated by his choleric little grandfather,
Gkobge-JI. Be fell in. His grandmother,
Queen Caroline, said of Frederick, Prince j
of Wales— George ll.’s father, and her son
—“ I will give it you under my hand, if you
are in any fear of my relapsing, that my dear
first-born is the greatest ass. and the greatest
liar, and the greatest canaille, and the great-
est beast in the wholo world, and that I
heartily wish he were out of it." Ho went
out of it, thus making n>om for his son, who
ruled for sixty years. Yet-this Frederick,
this ass, liar, canaille and beast as his mother,
who no doubt knew her son's accomplish-
ments, called him, would have become King
of Great Britain, Franco, and Ireland, and
Defender of the Faith but for death’s early
summons. To return to his son, Farmer
| George. This- man, as we said, was ob-
! otinate and despotic. In him were combined
the education of a scullion and the intoler-
ance of an inquisitor. Ho had intermittent
fits of madness during whioh his son and
successor tied his legs to a bed-post and then
strolled down to Brooks’s to convulse tho
company by mimicking tho old King’s jabber-
ings. In all England there could scarcely
have been found a man more obviously unfit
to rule. Ho throw away 50,000 lives and
£140,000,000 in futilo attempts to make the
Americans return to their allegiance, and
£1,000,000,000 and innumerable
restore the .Bourbonx to Franco. HarfriwSj)
elective principle been in vogue
have had a less chanco than one. <\ f nuvalets
of being choseri to he was a King
by right of “animal succession.’’ Christian
hiB exemplary life and
blasphemously -taught that ho was God's
dolegate. So to-day the starving poor of
England are paying for this madman's
vagaries. Compare him or liis successors
with tho great men across tho Atlantic who
were chosen from the counter or the work-
shop to guide the young Republic through
its early struggles. Yet tho far-seeing
citizens of Sandhurst applaud in thoir wisdom
the system that gave us George 111., his two
accomplished sons, and may give us a Seventh
Edward, while they thank God for their
freedom from a method which might burthen
the country with a Washington, a Jkffer-
Take Charles 11. again. But for
Oliver’s short-sighted violence .neither he
nor his would have again plagued England.
They would never have h:id a chance of sub-
jecting British ports to outrage from Dutch
cruisers, of making the country of Hami-den
! and Milton accept the contemptible role of
a French vassal. For the four years (1049
1 1053) following tho fumbus resolution that
“ The office of a King in this nation is un-
necessary, burthensome, and dangerous ’’
tho fame of England spread wide over land
and sea. But the coming of the Stuarts
and their harlots quickly chjmgcd all this.
The reign of legitimacy and strumpets began.
The sedatcncaa and seemliness of social life
changed under the “Old Goat ” tho name
by wliich the Lord's Anointed was familiarly
known—to a wild debauch. If a period iB
tube judged by the character of its litera-
ture the world lias never seen so foul an
orgie as Charles’s reign. Those who arc
unacquainted with the writings of the third
Stuart’s regime liave no knowledge of what
literary filth means. Tho poems of Roches-
ter, one of the Court’s gallants, can hold
their own for pure dirt against anything
ever committed to paper or papyrus. Men
considered themselves singularly honoured
when tho King or his brother James cast
lowd eyes on their wives or daughter*-
Charles himself accounted for tho plain-
ness of his brother's mistresses by jocularly
suggesting that they woro “ selected for him
by his Father Confessor." Old Pepys, cir-
cumspect and royalty-loving as ho was, gives
many entertaining facts, among others :
“ Harris tells mo . . . ho was among
them, and my Lady Bennett and her ladies,
and Cfioir dancing naked, and all the roguish
things in tho world." During all this long
quarter of a century of national degradation
and domestio i licentiousness, be it remem-
bered—of sharao abroad and at homo—the j
| high ecclesiastics of the dominant church I
I said no word to indicate that tho Court
I doings were foul cither in tho sight of God j
or man. Cosily enjoying the good things
resulting from the Church spoliation' of the
previous century, tlioy went on preaching
tho benefits of tho hereditary principle in I
. 2 5 — — —-
Government and the impiety of Republi-
can ia/n. If any Bailes of the period pre-
sumptuously hinted that tho llfo of the
Monarch or of the Heir-Apparent might
have been a little cleaner, ho was quickly
brought to hia sense* by both the spiritual
and aecular powers.
Thus we might wandor down through tho
varioua reigns from tho “Old Goat* ” to
that of our late Sovereign, “Silly Billy,"
with tho firm assuranco of having eves and
ears offended by the actiona of our Jleaveit-
aent rulers. When sexual depravity waa
absent, ignorance, incompetence, lunacy, <>r
arrogance took it* placo. If thon a tree is
to bo judged by' its fruit* does not heredi-
tary rulo stand condemned ? How can a
man who is true to himself be loyal to an
institution which the smirched records of
centuries show to be rotten i Even admit-
ting all tho apologists for royalty say in
favour of tho present reign, t<> what does it
amount ? 1 hat tho Sovereign of tho Empire j
is a goAd woman. Has it, then, como to
this that well-behaved English matrons are
so rare that when one is found her country- .
men invito the world’s attentiori to the
fact? There are surely hundred* of
thousands of British homes presided over
by wives as chaate and mothers as kind. At
least, if there are not, then so much the
worse for England. Nor should it be for-
gotten that an income of £019,379 a year is
a material aid to virtue. As for ability, it
will not be disputed that during tho present
reign some Englishwomen have been heard of
who, ao far, at least, as writing books is con-
cerned, might fairly claim a placo scarcdy, if
at all, second to Her Majesty's, in the
opinion of competent judges, Mary Somer-
ville's “Connection of tho Physical Sci-
ences " is but little inferior to “ Leaves
from my Diary in tho Highlands,” while tho
analytic faculty brought to bear in dissecting
the motives that swayed tho characters in
“Romola" or “ Midalemarch ” is not far
behind that which pourtrayed the idiosyn-
cracics of tho late Mr. John Brown.
I Tho Sandhurst royalists have succeeded in
proving that our coming King, notwithstand-
ing* that circumstances seonr a little
| against him, is a mnn of tho highest probity
| and morality-ono whom any subject would
gladly introduce to his handsome wifrr-or
.daughter. The is susceptible,
|no doubt, but «*?.'; in an amTumo -wo y like
his great undo*. How the Sandhurst--folk .
WCured so much 'trustworthy evidence In
H.K. Highness’s favour, considering the
amount of contrary testimony there is float-
ing about England, js-'but a further illustra-
tion oPthe proverbial fact that, to obtain re-
liable news, there is nothing like going as far
from home ns possible. But in their attempt*
to prove that ho is very clever- also, it must
be confessed they failed. This-is rather odd,
as tho evidence for his talents is almost as
conclusive as for his innocence. So well
known is this in England that a living writer,
not too favourably disposed towards tho
Gl-elphs, honestly admits that, even if
monarchy went under to-morrow, H.R.H.
would have no great difficulty in securing a
placo as cabman, or sdrao equally responsible
position. Tho lessons to be drawn from the
Sandhurst indignation meeting are theso:
00 The elderly and cultivated people sided
with Wales, the young and noisy with
Bailer; (f>) Personal loyalty, so far as growing
Australians are concerned, is dying or dead ;
(c) This southern soil is not congenial to the
growth of hereditary honours or government
—the person who aspires to rule must do so by
virtue of his conduct or his talents and not
dopend too much on tho accident of birth or
the shady actions of shady progenitors.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The
E.VW.ISU travellers in America are wont to laugh
at tho punctiliousness of tho people tl\pro in the
matter of titles, and their high appreciation of
dignity or du>:nction. Brown,
claim to a designation of greater eminence, such
ns “ Captain," or “ Colonol," or “ General," his
friends never omit to bestow it on hlnTovcn in
ordinary conversation. Tho Press, contrariwise,
have a habit of dropping titles whonovor it can be
don In Now South Wales tho
-ved."
times, perhaps, plain “ Sill." But tho moment
thcro is a supposed orroal noccssity to mention ,
that gontleman's name in a newspaper, ho is “ tho 1
Right Honorable W. B. Dam.ky, P.C.". A sub-
editor*. dally who pa-sed an omission
?nto hu" j
tho titlo is invariably printed in lull, -liko
th C M U,>CraCrlPUOn ° f - a " " llCl “ l ? C3pnleh -. Yot
LonT’ Saijmii kv, not of the -Right Honorable j
Most Honorable tho Marquis of Sausduiiy. Tho
list of gueetsjit tho banquet given by Sit John
Mr. Daulky dny, ns published in
reading. The host himself was no
Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M G., President of tho
Legislative Council." One of tho guests wns “. tho
Stki-hen" 0.8 ° G.C °M.O.;'°nndevery oao^roaent
liad his titles set forth with damnabkacrupulosity.'
I Tho nicest regard for details wns, of course, shown
| in tho caso of Mr. Dallet. So that tho public
Alight not ho mistaken as to who was present,
of details out the wrong way. If.
tended.. Thug, It\s not "j-iwy 'o
keeping with the fashionthe day l3 HowmS
iWera of these papers can tolerate such
is hard to conceive ; but what passes ill
standing is how on earth sonio of ih unaep *
habitually described in the manner n»r<i«L£23
who are not lacking sense, can keep their
offthe windpipes of editors oppreaeid
execrable taste. This stupid beslavering of decent
weakness COrn .P a?abl ° onl y “o tho iffiy '
Knights. " Q rand Priraos!" and similar
ing designations, and are said to inflictin'
penalties on any member who neglect. to beX
those assumed Utles in accordance with thahSw
rules. The erase is clearly an evidence of
fatuous condition of the mind yclept
Wo can forgive it in tho case of individual. W
whon a respectable institution llko tho
attacked by it. a sensation of utter disguatlTln '
duecd. Tho lender tho Sydney dailies
° hMourab]o a member*"" #tyUn,f him
an m cmnt^ade? tr h mlghtlly PlcMcdw&sa
Church in Xew
iiishop Barry entitled “ Archbishop of Svdnor *
Similarly, when I)jbhacu had Queen Vjoto^Ia
created •• Empress of India,” by Act of Par-
liament, more than ono •• leading “ Australian
KffiJ Km,°r } l , hat she should also
dhui Press S ? °„ tbe ColonlM ; The Cana- «
Mwu 3£snE2 and circumstancos' not
Dor re u p r ooesa °! ohun Klng names,
power or a^hoHTby'The'mere^Btow^^oT^
SK* 1 (° r a P?non increasod by such mean*.*
f° neC °* Bar> t 0 mentlon these
impossible to avoid dealing in what has lonir
since passed into the region of platitude, if you
require to reach the level of their understanding?
A Dismal Demonstration.
Last week at Sydney Town HaU, Sir Alfred
gentlemen met heaped’ou logy ® ,cv ®£ oth ° r
have been'olovon for'thaMt m*'-° namc<l,
Monntlletlni'o outrngo°w ijereS* 3 '* rr 4"®^™° p *&®
V s ; iasi
5S!.i , UCO ? aPH and other dailies did not
mcotin . - ,hat at tho “PPolnted time of -
hnl .„., K . n orc was 1,0 °u° Present, and that only a
oakers do/on wore gathered after an hour'a inter-
vW. Khs/ tlu- audience wawo rare, nndnhat the '
Telkorawi U another “ot rioticcd hy
,e *; thi ® facl discourage them though I
saint aora WiSKf-ui Fiifi th°- j b |° luLely ci, hor a \
fcUow “ P,Q ®
m ’hT- -
the darkest cdoss of ruffians." If this latter state- j
that the hardness of the hero's headdsaVroim
subject** scientific observation. Mayor Kilky
In ealogy waa Co '"P ri »ed
Victoria Cross had won it by a^erac"exhibition of
th . l ® r ° m ' u ‘ < -° 18 iwr and weak when compared
posed the 12 withthoao contmdrtun 8B “' who
Continn.'i.t
srsssr |
things: first, that tho 'committee* 9
donations from men to 10s. and from ladies to 1
2s. Cd.. thus averting tho danger certain to ensue j
if subscribers were permitted to involve them-'i
thsr dl^ C gl U®? by donating aU j
Jhat the collectors of this testimonial ar& j
were forced to wear themselves out gatheringM
reward to be merely kershawed hy a gift of HO per l
cent; of their collections. Why Stanley should®
ho on a pedestal wo cannot exact I^9
average qualities/ would™. a '“
who know his private history best will bo moat 9
surprise.! at tho effort to foist him into a posMoiH
forced*to itoßAyeth^t th>ngß bein K. wo are 3
tho thirteen was simply to make'a demonsUtttion 3
in opposition to tho anticipated appeal Tor a re- -’
prlovo. To wildly applaud Stanley was inforen- i
tloliy to cast further infamy on tho condemned®
81 x - ™ la was plainly evident from varioufl
published speeches. It was a demonstration-®
against reprieve—a demonstration of thirteen,-*
and a dismal demonstration at that.
| to explain tho cause ofJudge* frantidl
1 go-as-you-please in that famous case. _Ho nays : m
ktUckc!? l t<> t pJfn°out ontiMM 1 * J Utl*e.-*iio' h.a besnst®
Ai I FRFt>°B n'nK ?' e h* enn '^ ccor dl D 8 to Mr.
guntyandaenteneed to death in a hurry"^^^
:■
and almost unconscious of the tliat Vls^


dooming nine boys to the gallows chiefly on tho
testimony of a young lady who admitted that she
had lost her virtue, a shabby person who told
cock-and-bull tales about having beon kidnapped
and carried off to Newcastle, and an Individual
who admitted that ho had been in gaol fer theft.
Even those who dofend Judge Wixoeyeu’b mid-
night gallop to the gallows admit that ono, at
least, of the twelve good men and true was rapidly
approaching a stato in which ho could not have
sat up in the box, but as he did manage to sit up,
and had enough voice left to say “ Guilty ” they
aro satisfied ; wholher his reeling brain was
capable of comprehending tho meaning of the
word they seemingly do uot care to inquire. Wo
are a groat people.
■■
“ THE Mount Ronnie Outrage : Latest Particu-
lars,” is still a standing titlo in the Australian
daily papers, and very strange and gruesomo these
particulars are. Outside tho gaol-walls all tho
world be rejoicing; inside, the new
patent doublo bprrelled gallows is being erected
under the supervision of the noseless oxecutioner,
and the doomed men can hear tho clang of the
hammer as each nail is driven. Only a wooden
door divides the condemned cells from tho yard
where tho work is going on, and the long drawn-
out agony of the preparations is to tho living dead
within liko the slow torture of the Spanish Inqui-
sition —but, of course, (hero is no Inquisition in
Nooso South Wales. It is only cold-hearted bung-
ling that adds this refinement of mental anguish
to the scntcnco passed by a weary and worn-out
Judge, on the verdict of a half-dead jury, in the
gray dawn of a summer morning, and though
many might prefer cruelty to stupidity tho two
things aro different—very different indeed. Some
well-meaning relatives of the doomcil six struck
the idea or providing them with a last Christmas
dinner, that there might ho some faint shadow
of rejoicing even in the condemned cells to re-
mind the inmates that the world outside was
celobrating the day which is supposed to herald
peace on earth and goodwill to men, but'they were
crushed in one act. Legislators havo found out
that bread and water starvation is the best pre-
paration for eternity, and tho thoughtless official
philanthropist who supplied murderer Rkyxolds
with his last plebeian British breakfast of beof-
steak and onions has been “ reported ” and sternly
censured for the act. As for tho prisoners them-
selves, they are, wo read,, sunk in tho deepest
dejection,.broken only by momentary bursts of
something that is half cheerfulness and half In-
sanity combined. Hi 1.1. sits for hours together
scratching his head in deep thought, “ until hie
nails havo worn through the hair and skin and
•penetrated almost to She bone,” but a youth who
to her hanged on a six-harrollcd gallows,
rand hanged, too, on the slenderest ovidonce, must
really bo allowed to have something to scratch his
head/qr. ;
♦
“ Cock*a-Dooi»i.k-I)oo 1" This statesmanlike ut-
—fcerance came from the leader of the ■V-ictoriair
Opposition lately In referenes to some remarks
mado by tho Premier. It is cheering to notice
that the public men of Victoria are becoming more
broad-minded and liberal every day. Not content
with conducting their debates in the language of
the
articuv J3d hut exphBft?ive speech of animals In their
Parliamentary vocabulary. The sounds mado by
Iks, geese, hogs, dogs, p’gs, goats, and
icies of domestic animal, tfiey have mado
n till one hardly knows whon they aro
in tho character of a hog, a dog, a pig, or
ind when they are speaking as human
Perhaps they don’t know themselves,
account for a good deal of their legisla-
nuch of what seems incongruous out of
Asylum in their language. There are
10 would say that this constant imitation
cos and conduct of animals may be dan-
hat those who practiso it may end by
ir identity and becoming mentally—as,
jme of them are now—that which they
tnd that the issue of it all will probably
e Victorian public will find themselves
gfcby creatures in tho shape of men who
all tho vices nnd norfe of tho virtues of
b, pigs, and goats— ct hos genua omne.
say it. Our advice to the Victorian
L., and to a good many of those of
ji Wales is to go on in tho course they
ked out for themselves. Let them not
d by the sneers of people who talk aboi*
r of manhood and n’l that sort of rub-
jre aro a number of useful locutions lo
un animals outside the domestic circle,
of the hyiena, for instance, might be
with effect when a speaker with pre-
» common sense gets up to talk business,
c is the croak of the frog. A dozen
tusky with raw whisky could get a lot
some valuablo waste of public time out
,hey croaked as ono man—or rather ‘nß
under—why shouldn’t one of
l eani t 0 trumpet like an
vvould be a final paralyser to the
?.se crew, and the others could then
o each others the lie, gaily accuse each
ery crime in the decalogue, play shuttle-
each other’s reputations (assumed to
the sake of the game), and generally
I, yowl, baa, yelp, and bark themselves
ration when another meeting of the
note would be declared satisfactorily
It has nearly como to this already.
;n, if tho old vivae’ous lot are returned,
r two new members of the right ring-
1, this Circe might try her enchant-
he Victorian Parliament in vaiju She
rform it into nothing lower.
t may have been tho lmmcdiiitc cause
M)oi.»‘ii Ciirtuiryx’K secession from
Cabinet, it is certain enough that the
ty for the rupture arose when ho showed
nation to leave the camp of old-time
Crusted Tories of the Salisbchy and
jrand viewed his coquet tings with
with an aversion that was only veiled
. of the delinquent’s undoubted power. 1
-■ix was to tliom a heretic and a traitor,
' ig still .feared to break with him lest he
* and rend them. For the sake of ills
H it i 3 well that the pretext for
adc by tho demands of Jingoism. This
I fiity to, and is to somo extent a conflr-
H K previous pretfossions. In this, as in
J - his Ministerial oarccr, ho has either
tency or consummate skill. Either
ax of a clover scheme, or elso new
' tiic sincerity of his rccont convor-.
une a big man politically when he
rship of tho Commons: he grew ;n
r whon he forced his views’ upon
I--- • * Premierr but by the mode of-his
has laid tho foundation of enduring
sm hasj made in him a new foe,
lired a potent ally, llis defection
fm Moment of parties which has long
ho lUbtixgto.nun Liberal- who
aro the Tories, and rank Torios in all but name,
will go over to the party which has long bad
all their affections, and then England will
know her enemies. Toryism will lose Churchill
and gain Hartington, an exchange which means
defeat tho more disastrous the longer it is delayed.
The Conservative journals, it is cabled, “ condemn
tho action of Lord Churchill in resigning at this
juncture. ’ They have reason to dread ai woll as
condemn. Lord Randolph has shown himself to
bo the master of a Tory Cabinot, now ho stands
the profossod foo of those whom ho previously
swayed. It is the beginning of tho end oHfforyism
in England.
■
Patrick Coghlan, of Oakleigh, Melbourne, was
arrested lately on a charge of smashing a bottle
of beer ovdr the head of Jam its Crawley. It
appears-the two were engaged in a religious dis-
cussion, and James disagreed with Patrick upon,
a small point of doctrine. Patrick filled with
holy ire—and tanglefoot—laid him out with one
blow’, for which tho said Patrick now runs a
chance of getting several months in gaol. Why
don’t they arrest tho leading spirits of the Mel-
bourne Presbytery? Poor Paddy Cogiila.y,
carried away by his zeal, only broke a bottle of
beer over the head of his opponent—a sort of
rude baptism ns it w’ere—while they did their
bitter best to wreck tho lives and fortunes of two
men of one df whom at least it may be said they
w-erc not worthy to take the dirt off his bluchers.
Why should thero be onolaw for them and another
for Paddy ? His offence was certainly nothing as
compared with theirs. The reason why it is—we
speak in grim seriousness now, as well w’o may
with such a theme—that Melbourne is ruled by
Prosbyterians. The dour and bitter ones are not
numerous, but they aro compact and mnkc up in
gold and gall what they lack in numbers. It is
they who keep the Public Library and Pidturo
Gallery shut on Sundays. It is they who refuse
to allow sacred concerts to be held on Sundays.
And this, mark you, against tho wishes of nine-
tenths of thoir fellow-citizens. How this can be
done in a free community may seem strange; but
it is nevertheless true. Money is the socret—
money, and determination, and solid fanaticism.
This combination is able to do anything in any
age or country—except good.
+
At Kiama, Bruce Smith is opposed by C. A.
Aitchison. Mr. Smith, who avers that he
stands on the independent ticket, is an able man,
a first-class platform speaker, and an uncompro-
mising Freo-trador. Having the support of the
retiring member, he is, rightly or wrongly, sus-
pected of favouring the present Ministry. On the
other hnnd, Mr. Aitciuson is a Free-trader who is
a strong Parkcsitc, anil, is chlelly remarkable only
os a man who has long endeavoured to get into
Parliament. Wc hope to see a strong Protectionist
nominated and returned for the constituency, but,
failing this, as we know tho political opinions of
Mr. Bruce Smith and aro not quite so sure about
those of Mr. Aitchison, wc shall be glad to see
tho former successful. Tho devil you know is
ahvays better than tho devil you don’t know, and
the curse of New South Wales so far has been
pereonal politics and tho lack~of a strong and well-
mi! frkod division of opinions on national questions,
the*Kiamnelectors, even the Kiama Protectionists,
will bo foolish if they throw’ away votes on Mr.
Aitchison. Parkks and all the othor old fogies
be finally abolished, and the people of
New South Wales must be taught to take sides
under one or other of the opposing banners of
Protection and Frcetrado. If Bruce S.MiTii be
elected, he will be found in the Free-trade camp,
no matter who rules there ; Aitchison, on the
other hand, is a member of that shifty party
who may be relied on to be in one camp by day
and in the othor by night.
♦— ■
The evidence in the case of Proudfoot v.
Proctor, M.L.A., wheroin plaintiff successfully
sued defendant for breach of tho 28th clause of
the Constitution Act of New South Wales, re-
vealed some very peculiar facts. It was proved,
for instance, that £lO,OOO of the retention money
on account of Logan and Proudfoot's contract
was refunded in April; ’|G, by tho Dcpartmont on
tho application of Mr. Proctor, although on the
27th November Mr. WiiiTton, tl.o Engineer-
in-Chief, absolutely refused to function
any concession. In Uio interval be-
tween theso dates the prospects of satisfactory
performance of tho contract cortainly had not lin
proved, and as tho rights of tho parties were
under review in the Equity Court, tho Depart-
ment must havo been aware that completion at
tho stipulated time, June, ’BG, was extremely, im-
probable. As a matter of fact, tho contract is
et finished, and the penalty on account of
delay is running up to an imposing amount, with
a fair prospect of going up for some time. Other
peculiar facts wore thtlt Mr. Proctor, a solicitor
of considerable experience, believes that cancella-
tion of an assignment is best effected by tearing
the signatures and seal from the document, and
that ho has a clerk, one Mitchell, who, accord-
ing to his employer's testimony, bos been know-n
to draw out an absoluto assignment containing
also an irrevocable power of attorney when his
instructions were not auoh os to warrant his doing
anything of tho kind. Mr. Proctor has resigned
his seat In the Assembly, and in the event of his
seeking re-election tho voters of New England
will do their manifest duty to the country, tho
legal profession, and also to Mr. Proctor if they
refrain from imposing any legislative duties upon
him. It would lie well for him to have somo
siKtro time so that lie may learn such things as
the right method of cancelling assignments and
the safest method of securing a railway con-
tractor’s hank account. Apd it would be-woll for
New South Wales if Mr. Proctor should pursue
his studies in the comi>arativo privacy of an un-
official life.
♦ 7-
Judoe Wixdeykr left Sydney for Europe by tho
mail boat on Christmas Kvo. His Honor has, un-
fortunately for himself and for tho apathetic
community that hires him to. dispense w’lmt it is
pleased to accept as justico, lived all his lifo in a
colony which within the last hundred years was
founded on a basis of convictism. He will now
for the first time in his career havo an opportunity
of inspecting, among the older civilisations, the
effect of humane and enlightened laws, thejesult
of that rad’calroform and thought untrammelled by
superstition which in other lands are the birthright
of tho nineteenth century of the Christian era.
In the •interests of New South Wales, we sincerely
trust that Judge Wixdeykr will learn mufch while
in Europe and that ho will .permanently settle
there and givo that continent the benefit) of his
newly-acquired knowledge.
4
While Australian journals arc continually com-
plaining that these colonics are underrated in'
England, it is evident that tho said journals are
chieily accountable for all tho trouble. „ Under
1 WO flnH n if 8 n Anothor Distinguished Visitor,”
JP P * Melbourne paper saying that a Mr. P.
with'7h« < i Xp / re f BC<l hi, »«elf greatly pleased
with the wonderful progress of tfle colony and
their" insH* of , tho peo l ,le ** evidenced by
Hu institutiens. Pngh! Nobody knows Mr.
in 5l, R 7 HY or . c ? res ono button about his good
is n WK yCtthWlS 1,16 8011 0f BlUBh Whlch
SoiH'h n yn en ,f ,y t ? nth - rute mediocrity comes
d ils i Prem trotß U 9 out him, and
10 *** our 11^tJe backs. ~lf the tenth-
orlrni o« J®?" °! sense ho accepts the childish
grovel as being degrading to us rather than com-
plimcntary to himself. If ho is an inflated fool
he returns home and blows about the go-ahead
people who received him as a “ distinguished
visitor. Ho exhibits a few miserable newspaper
paragraphs to his friends and acquaintances, and
then Ins friends and acquaintances reckon us up
as semi-savages—something more than blacks and
less than whites. Thus is Australia belittled by its
would-be champions of the Press,
♦
Tm: Sydney Morning Herald is mightily
indignant with a London newspaper for mention-
ing that the Sydney prices of butter, eigs, and
milk are higher than in England, and, after first
disputing the facts, argues Besides, anyone
knows that the difference in prices between cne
country and another is simply the difference in
the value of monty.” Here we get an expDnation
of a hest of commercial phenomena. Work is
dearer in Eng’ancl than In Australia wo now know,
because aonpy is cheaper there, not, as the
economists say, because of the existence there of
an abundance of skilled and low-priced labour to
manufacture It; and bananas are dearer in Mel-
bourne than in Fiji, not because of tie cost and risk
of transport, but because of the oxcessive scarcity
of coin in Melbourne as compared with the state
of the money market at Lcvuka. The t heory docs
not explain these two phenomena in exactly the
same way. But never mind. The great Sydney
teacher of political economy must bo correct,
Palsford and Co. might probably go “off their
kadoovas" if that were disputed; therefore,
purely out of regard for the mental equilibrium of
Pulsford and Co., wo refrain from casting the
shadow of a doubt on the Herald’s generalisa-
tion.
»-■
After waiting a few days in order to catch
the spirit of Victorian popular opinion on the
Bailes-Walesquestion.theAGEdeemoditadvisablo
to warm Up some of its long-time discarded Repub-
licanism. In a recent leaden we And that un-
stable journal saying :—“ If coionial Far’iaments
.did their duty they would protest against the
practice of conferring titles upon colonists. . . .
A Democratic community like this, founded in
accordance with modern ideas, is impatient of
the introduction of this shadowy vestige of
feudalism, and is. disposed to resent it,” This
passage is Acceptable as. proving that words of
truth can tlow from the mouth of such a jour-
nalistic Ananias as the Age. But the reference
to cole Dial Parliaments” is pr-obably intended
for earkosm. It is from the ranks of our glorious
politicians that K.C.M.G.’s are mainly selected.
The home authorities, with the avowed mission
of spreading the doctrine of grovel in these
colonics, naturally hopo to -attain their end by
first converting the peoplo’s chosen representa-
tives. And, people continue to fill the
Assemblies with' “representatives” whoso
miserable ambition is bounded on the north by
free feeds, on the east by lucrative land jobs, on
the west by a Government billet, and on the
south by a tin-pot title, thqre is littlo sense in
talking about what Ppliament ought to do. Un-
douotedly Australians in the mass do form a
grand Democratic community, and do r&cnt the
introduction of t he aforesaid vestige of feudalism.
But Phoy make no sign. They are content to ad-
dress any inflated booby as Sir Tom or Sir Dick.
Thcjf permit the world to assume that every Aus-
tralian is neoessarily a self-seeking worshipper
of royalty In fact, they have allowed the greasy
scum to accumulate on the surface of our social
stream till the purity of its depths is not sus-
pected.
Another Year.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fill up the glass, drink Father Trie’s good health, j
Best of all friends, staunchest of comrades true ;
Aro you now poor? Perchance he’ll give you
wealth.
Do you now grieve? Your grief he will subdue.
The down-crushed wretch bemoaning his hard
fate,
The widowed wife who mourns a husband dear,
Have hope still left —then let thorn watch and wait
Anothor year.
All sorrow dies ; this life it is a span :
No cloud so black but soon will break and pass :
Day succeeds night ns Time, the Grand Old Man
Wavoth his wand—and so. All up your glass ;
Wish him God speed upon his endless way—
Ken though you know your end be drawing
near,
And grizzled locks show thicker streaks of gray
With every year.
Where is the man so happy in his lot
But could his cup of pleasure fuller fill,
And—gffted with the magic power—would not
Refuse to bid old Father Time stand still ?
Though loud his laugh and gay the.song ho sings,
Though clinging children whisper in his ear
ITo lays him down and dreams of bettor tilings
Another year.
The lover, happy in his fair one’s smile,
Longing looks forward to their wedding-day :
The faithful swain hopes in a little while,
To turn the gentle, doubting Nay to Yea;
The maid forsaken feels her heart grow light
As, brushing from her cheek the furtive tear,
She draw’s vain comfort from the thought "He
might
Return next year.’’
City men, gamesters, doctors, priests, or bards—
Join in the toast, fiR high your flowing bowls ?
Dealing in.poetry, produce, stocks or cards,
In euro of bodies, or in cure of souls,
Fortune’s the goddess whom you all adore ;
Though Time has proved her sadly insincoro
You woo her, wondering w’bat she holds in storo
This coming year.
Make the most of it, mon and women all,
Enjoy the swcots of dawning “ Eighty-Seven ” :
The Present's ours, the Past beyond recall.
And “ Eighty-Kight” may find us—well, in
Heaven;
Work we successfully, or seems life's toil unblest,
Still must wo labour on and never fear—
Good Father Time may give the weary jest
Ere ends the year* .
Gehazi the Genuia.
(BY E.F.)
Gehazi Joitcs was long and thin
And ugly-like his kith and kin ;
Hut all the ladies did declare
lie had an interesting nir.
Though low nnd narrow was his brow,
Most courtly was Gchazs's ljow'
And when he-spoke, in voice subdued.
Ho always struck an attitude.
So. somehow, it tho malt became
To reverenco Gehnzi's name ;
He whs the ladies’ guiding star
(Like Hunt home in the opera.)
As paintor. novelist, or hard.
They held him in supreme regard ; -
Tho reason why was rather quaint—
He didn’t write and didn’t paint.
No gathering of tJ»o elite
Was ever voted quite complete.
Unless—for just an hour or more—
Gehazi stood around the door.
Tho maidens followed him about
At Cinderella, soiree, rout.
And when Geha/.i did the Hlock
Ho shepherded a dainty tldek.
. Ah 1 languidly he loved to quote
Good things that other fellows wrote.
Observing— ** people might suppose
“ Thai I, myself, had written those.”
So though bp always made it known
Those quoted bits were nut his own,
Gehazi (it was understood)
Had thought of others quite us good.
Our hero had n soulful way
Of running down the modem play,
In drama-writing, he confess’t,
His pen took little interest.
He'd give a little angry start
At any very touching jiart.
And say, “ An inharmonious line—
I’d alter that if it were'mine.”
Or sometimes he would shuke his head
And run the players down instond ;
While ladies would bewail the fuct
' That dear Gchuzl didn't act.
Hut os a painter shone he most
Among the fair, admiring host;
The all-observed of every eye,
He sauntered through the gallery.
The want of ” breadth," in Someone's style,
Gehazi noted with a smile.
And then he scattered little hints
Of how'Vic would arrange the tints.
About t he art of long ago
Such secrets did ho seem to know
That damsels murmured with_dclight,
“ His method is pre-Ituphuclife."
Compelled by candour to ullow
Gchnzi novor painted now ;
They on his merits would insist,
As artist, poet, novelist.
Ihe Morning Muddle " sang his fame—
Tho " Evening Horror" did the sarao.
They,cited him ns one of those
Who could do wonders when he cl°hso.
.boy,
M hen struggling authors’ works ecoinired
The critics and the ladies sncoro<hat o;
Such writers they nt once agrco>eaj*'
•Were poor.compared with JonpS; indeed.
Aspiring artists they would crush
With leaders on a ’’ fuller brush."
And essays’on the “ tender tones"
Of giants like Gehazi Jones.
And as the years went rolling by
The young took up the elders’ cry ;
Gehazi still preserved lils place—
The hero of the coming nice.
The things Gehazi didn’t write
.Were spoken of as erudite.
And rumour kept the memory green
Of pictures none had ever seen.
. If idle scoffers threw a doubt
On books they’d only heard about,
Gchazi’s frionds would merely hint
Those volumes now were out of print.
Before a picture by “ Unknown ’’
They’d jmiukc and in nn undertone
Rcmurk. ”To tell the honest truth.
Jones dashed it, off in early youtlgl'
VcarS may conic and years may go,
. But with them Jones' fame will grow—
For distance lends enchantment to
The many works he didn't do.
Yes, when the present race has paid
Its mortal debt (and goes decayed)
Now critics will arise to find
In Jones a marvel of munkind.
And lovely verses which have been
Once published in Ihc “ Bullytken,”
May treasured be In future homes
As.dead Gclmzi’s minor ponies.
Just as a certain party says
That Bacon fathered William’s play#—
’Tis likely, in the course cf time,
They’ll credit Jones with ad our rhypxJbJei'l
< -ie T
For, oh ! the fame that neve? di-
Is frequently comiwscd of lies
And heroes are the people »• Cf
Look on at what the otlio.
• » •
Dear reader, would you be e
The deepest bard that ever
An artist, novelist divine 1 / V
Let paint alone, nor write °sve
But cultivate a cour
A bilious look, a nai Gerinll
And whisper low t
Of clever things Ptge 13.) T


THAN K K L T LNEBS.
Sydney, 523 Oeohgk St. (N.S.W.), j
1886. —I sutFercd rcry muck wilh pains ac!
tack, down the inside of my t hiphs, togotif
severe headhehes, cau s ing dimness of'
Could not rest at night , having a desire tc
without being able to do so. I was ad»
try Warner's safe cure I had not taktJ
than one bottl<? when I began to reallso I j
last found a rare for what I thought an it
complaint. lam uow quite cured, and f<j
not say too much tu * r of Warner's
and Warner’s saft -C. J. JACKSQ)
WHEN PH* CIANS' Kal
Petersham, fhrjs ak St. (Sydney*, v.
lit, 1886.—Kor-tTlo lait four year* I ha\
ting wqrse and worse, sntTorw g from t*
back, which at times Worn cxcrucia
stooped it was with tho greatest diffleul
raise myself up agaiii My urine was
cloudy 1 and my aopeiito poor. 1c i led ;
advice, but was none tho bettor fur i f . f*
cal man candidly- uld mo I might U*d*
baths, as nothing else would da‘mo on;'j*
gave up all miter medicine and comma! l /jt,
tier’s safe cure ami Warners safe riPihnJ
time I had taken six bottle-. I felt agr» A
f have now had sixteen bottle*, aut ie\ u i»
solely through using' Warner s oafo i v,; ~
EDWIN I)AVIS, (h.vt. It. It v ork/^jj'J
WAU.,KU’J SAfr'rt REMEDIES liftd
DHiKSMO.V ijd, i
ADELAIDE, S.A., 03 IIf.NIU.IiV Sl^ ,T Jly i >
—Having been a severe
y ears with liver' complaint, a f,lt * 1 *
under the treatment of soveral t
this city wilful receiving any vLySi
duoed l»y a friend to try
can ray I liavo received very gWio ’
doiag, taking in all fifteen rotr/enn ;
.Warner's safe pill.-. according uto Mo, j
in duty bound to nmke rhis faefe and'
are sulleriag frwtn aovere indi
tho ditarrangeuient of the li
MON, Auctioneer.
The keferee
At the A. J.C’s. Summer Meeting at Rand-
wick last Monday the attendance was immense—
perhaps the best on record. Thanks to the late
copious rains, tho course surroundings looked their
best, but there is still room for improvement on
the course proper and training tracks. The Vice-
regal party were present during tho wholo of the
afternoon : Lady Carington exhibiting a delicious
old-time costume of creamy muslin dotted all over
with what looked liko little bunches of roses—
crimson silk vest, and black jot bonnet adorned
with white tulle and golden ospreys. His Excel-
lency’s colours were worn for the first timo at
Rondwick, but failed to show to tho front, owing
to the fractiousness of the filly Esperance who
- carriod them ; howiver, had shebeen on hor best
behaviourjind left the post with tho remainder of
the field, ft is just possible sho would have got
home first.
*_ * •
The Flying Handicap opened the day’s
racing and attracted a very mixed field of 22. A
pronounced favourite was discovered in Soldier
Boy, whose party put the money down so freely
that he touched 3to 1 beforo the flag fell. The
winner, however, turned up in tho comparative
• outsider, Itaoul, wfjt struggled home gamely from
the lightly-weighted Faugh-a-Ballagh ; the latter
would have won had ho not lacked pluck. Ninety
per cent, of tho layers managed to escape touch-
ing the winner, but included in the remaining ten
was the popular owner of Cerise and Blue, who
peppered Raoul to tho oxtent of a monkey to a
pony.
• • • —: —
Out of an original entry of 21 for the
December Stakes, only eight ventured to oppose
Huntingtowcr. But once ngain the backers erred,
as the favourite, who (though he had run unkindly
from the start) looked liko winning easily a fur-
long from home, collapsed altogether when Kelso
applied tho whip. Of course his backers blamed
the jockey. Huntingtower is not so well as ho
was at Melbourne, and it must not be forgotten
that he mot an unearthed glutton in Abercorn,
who, as his pedigree shows, is relatod in blood to
the defunct Morpeth, and Hexham. In all his
work*on tho training track, Abercorn invariably
showed his sterlingness in the last half furlong,
and. will be heard of in tho next V.ILC/Dorby
quotations should he keep well and train on.
* • #
Tho Hurdle Race was contested by a field
of ten very moderate animals, victory falling to
, the favourite, Unlquot - ya*'"uud Whitofoot not
dropped at tho lasLhrrfcfio but one from home the
positions have been reversed. Unique
struck tho/ Tost obstacle heavily and nearly came
down. 7
m • •
f
Mjirrurundi had no difficulty in appro-
priating )ho Soiling Plate, after which the Sum-
mer Cup came on for decision. The field was
Strong-vhough numerically, but a sadder lot of
cracks, with ono or two exceptions, never aspired
to Cup henours. Ben Bolt could hardly raise a
gallop in' his preliminary ; the favourite, Hex-
ham, brokb out into a sweat an hour beforo tho
race started, and is evidently one of the unreliable
sort. Industry, though showing improvement on
her Melbonmo form, was many removes from
well, and 't Willeroo, the least said tho bettor,
but we re surprised to sco him one of the
starters T othing stripped in better condition
than So Dagobert, and Highland Mary. An
oven pju s Bet from tho start and continued
throughout. At the Lcger stand, Dagobert, who
was nicoly ridden by Steeper, came away and won
cleverly, if not easily. Sorolla ran well for a mile
and a quar er, Sthen died away to nothing ; but
HighlarybMary, Lancer, Silver King, and Industry
..were never dangerous.
4 V* • *
The victory of Aberdeen in the December
~ Stakes was sufficiently pronounced to establish
Perfumo an even-money favourite in a field of 12
for tho Nursery Handicap. Backers made no
• mistake either, for although the favourite got
badly away, she won hundsomely at the finish.
At the post llales discovered that some of his
leads were loose. He therefore carried them in
his hand. The racing terminated with the A. J.C.
Handicap for which a field of 15 started, tho
winner turning up in The Wreck, a 6 to 1 chance.
Lillywhito asserts that Turner is the best
bowler they will have to meet in Australia, but he
is also confident that his team will make 300 runs
against the Carlton cruck iu tho the next match.
• • •
After the execrable performance of Burton
behind thastlcks in the recent match nguinst tho
Australian Eleven, the N.S.W, selection commit-
tee will show* most pointed favouritism if they
include him in the next match. O'Hanlon of Qlon
Innos seems now to be the best N.S.W. exponent
of wicket-keeping, but any of the other senior club
men arc better than Burton, who should never
huve>becn thought of.
•• ' #
R. Matthews, the pugilist, writes to the
Bulletin saying that BottcngeH, now in Australia,
who calls himself the champion of N.Z., has no
righl-to that title, ns when-challenged he failed to
come forward and defend his clnim.
«* ♦ «
A Melbourne journalist kindly says that if
"h were defeated to-morrow ho might slide
Into a pauper’s grave, and no one in A us-
’d care two-pcooe about him.
« *
upon the increase of the
*co hours the attendance at the
'* "tlce grounds is now very
* * 1
1 * #
icretary of tho N. S. W. •
tion, and the managing trustee
‘ had a “ bit of a turn-up ” at
*sh match. Mr. Gregory
Sheridan’s demand that*
>r he pavilion, and claims
tho right, in virtue of his office, to enter any part
of the ground whilst a cricket match is in progress
under tho auspices of tho Association. The matter
is to come shortly before tho Association.
* * •
Where is Bonnor ? is the question just
now asked in cricketing circles. He missed the
steamer, and It is feared that he has been annexed
by & Russian'Princess.
• *
There was plenty of excitement about the
two last days' play in tho Melbourne International
match. It was rumoured nboard that the English*
men intended to follow on their innings and were
confident of " We shall set them 150
runs,” said one of the pros., “and those chaps
can’t make the score when we're trying all wo
know." This prediction was fulfilled to the letter.
The Englishmen's second Innings put them in a
majority of 171. and the Australians were all out
for 114. It is hardly too much to say that the
tvrofessionala' fielding in this innings was tho best
thing ever seen in this country. From first to last
they were all ovor their opponents, and towards
the finish the batsmen were positively afraid to
attempt a run. On tho other hand it is evident that
tho English batting is not as strong os it looks on
paper. Barnes and Briggs seem to have lost aIU hcir
old style, Flowers is somewhat in the sameVtsc,
while tho *' great Ounn " makes very little use of
his commanding height, and .plays cunning balls
like a novice. But Sherwin, be it observed, is
not by any means the duffbr that people assume
him to be. He and Lohmann fight for the last
wicket with more nerve and dash than anyone in
tho team, bar Shrewsbury. The stand that was
considered a “fluke” in Sydney, was repeated in
Melbourne at a vory critical moment, and the
confident mannor in which the burly wicket-
keeper played five bowlers on tho last morning,
gave much joy to the groundlings. A lot of
“feeling” cropped up towards the finish re-
specting Phillips’ decisions in the Australians’ 1
favour, but as “ feeling ” seems to put
devil into tho game, perhaps just a little
of it is rather to be desired. On Now Year's
Day the same teams meet again, and if the pro-
fessionals fail to acqu’t themselves well in tlie
batting department thov may get beaten. But if
the Fifth Australian Eleven are ever called upon
to make a decent score on the pinch against the
Shrewsbury crowd it will be 3 to 1 against them
doing it. These are the words of wisdom, for we
"know sotnetbingw<STtiC Englishmen's poor dis-
play against N.S.W: in tho first match can be
fairly excused, and it must be remembered that
there is no Turner or M'Donnoll among the
demoralised "Our Boys ” team. By the way, it
would be better for Blackham to take command in
tho noxt match. The general, idea was that
Garrett bowled too much himself and changed the
other men injudiciously.
BRIEF MENTION.
Off the rail—J. P. Abbott.
Off the lintf—that dismissed railway man.
- The (Sydney) BOllltin, the smartest and
most sincere of Colonial papers." Modern
Society (London).
“Vengeance is mine,” saith the Lord.”
There's some mistako here. Vengeance belongcth
to Mr. Justice
A stowaway is reported to have been on
the Keilawarra. That man can be said to
have died in his sins.
The Bulletin is a eamlidate for Alfred
BonnctVs prize for the best new name for Noose
South Wales. “Trianglia” is our nomination.
Local government is a huge succ as in
Sydnoy. Said a Sydney alderman to another at
last Council meeting : “ I’ll heave you out of the
window."
The Sydney mail-bag to Burro wa was
missing last w eek. It is supposed that tho weight
of crime it contained sank it into the bowels of
the earth.
The editor of the Charlesville (N.S.W.)
Times complains that his customers nro holding
over the leading, article. This is tho latost way
of inviting them to “ante-up."'
“ The y gaol is too full, your worship,” said
a Sydney solicitor when all other argument had
failed for Ills clicßt. Ihe Bench doubted this, so
he gave the benefit of the doubt to— the gaol.
A man died suddinly in Church the other
day. “ Deceased was a regular attendant of the
Little Bethel," says tho Age. And would you be- '
lieve,*they arc wondering what the dickens could
have killed him.
Improvements are being gradually effected
in the N.S.W. military system. A case of gaitors
has been sent to the Qucanbeyan volunteers. This
will make bismarck “show; his hand" a dernod
sight faster than M'lver ever made him.
The Warwick Examiner has pour* d out
a noble Keilawarra sentiment. It says: “Aye,
and had not the steamers collided there would not
havo been tho loss of life there unfortunately
was.” Jf there is a mendacious wretch in ail
Australia who will deny that, then trot him out.
“A town without a hospital,” says
Cardinal Manning, “Ls like the sky without the'
sun." Quite so. your Eminence, biiriilarly, a
Noose South Wales gaol without a gallows is like
a member - f Parlian ent without a share is a rail-
way contract, or a church without a collection-
plate and a mortgage.
Swfotman, tho cabman, has escaped his
first Hogging. V\ hen it canto to a question of 11
years mul 50 lashes t e Almighty interposed, and
when the day came It was found that the mise-
rable wretch was too weak to have his baik
skinned. Anyhow, that’s how wed put the mat-
ter if we were editing a _ religious " paper,
The shoo’ing i f the Victorian cadets at tho
WilliamstoAGi biil<s wns remarkably good last
year. This is oncour«gUig news fur tho proprie-
tors of evening papers The bank-munugur.t and
burglars of tne future will, we may roasonably
oxpect, be able to throw a little more trugedy into
their encounters than the present degenerate re-
presentat Ives of these professions.
“I am anything but bloodthirsty,” Writes
“ Husband and Father," a sanguinary hunter
after gore, in tho Sydney D.T., apropos of the
Mount Hennic case, and then he adds : “ I think
three years, with 50 lashes every six or 12 months, ,
administered in public, would soon be appreciably
beneficial." If this is how too D.T. animal goes
on when he is calm and. not bloodthirsty, we
reckon that whed he \locs got bloodthirsty ho Vyill
tear dowmthe gaol wall and go in and eat the six
prisoners alive, and il(en lunch on the hangman.
He Is just the sort of person who would' Uko to t4o
a man to tho wall u«d slowly chew his leg off.
CORRESPONDENCE
PH* Uu will return *ll unsuitable MSS. when the
aldreas is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
l&ote sending MSS. to distlncUy understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of tucb
MSS.
P. Ifcircclle”: As far as we can make out, u
colonial “High Church" parson is a clergyman who unre-
servedly loves the fslr sex. “ Low Church " parson is one
who is constitutionally virtuous and affects sodawuter and
mid-day prayer-meetings. Tho “ Broad Church " ecclesiastic
is known by his partiality for late suppers and whisky. P.S.
You san't be very BrOod Church unless you smoke. " High
Church, more wine ; Low Church, more wiokles.".. .."L.L.":
lie is a gentleman by Act of Parliament —and otherwise....
" Septimus": Mr. James Farnell was premier ef N.B.W. aad
Secretary for Lands from the 18th December, 187 T, to the
30th December, 1878. Wo don't know what you mean by
ashing " whether he went through the prescribed form for a
Minister." If you mean the Insolvent Court, we reply “ no."
...Ernest Wilton Scarcely suitable for publication....
" Thou. Regan You Champion Liar? W* don't believe it-
Which of the evening papers are you 0n?...." Postulata”:
Wo will po«t-u-lata concerning our views on the subject....
• Democrat : Members of the N.SAV. Parliament arc not
paid by the State. Usually they pay themsolves....."K.
M'Culloch": Suggestion will probably be the basis of an
illustration...." Christman Boxes Publication could do no
good, unless names were given, and if names were given a
libel-writ by the guilty husband would at once result to our
c05t...."T." (Kcwa, Fiji): Will consider.. ." Rudolph C”:
Many thanks...." La Mart": Your suggestion must indeed
be a common-sense one: it has reached us from half-a-dozen
quarters...." Pipes Thanks...,“ Yarraiuan”; JluwmlL
ba Mi10f..,’." L.L.": They would oo doubt lie to save them-
selves. hut why should they tell lies of which others would
reap the benefit? The convicts declnre that Newman, Hill,
and Read are innocent, and their assurances at such u
moment are of greater value than aU the evidence tendered
In tho midnight hours of the trial, before a wearied judge
and a somnolent jury... ."T.C.": If you prove to us that
more criminal assaults on virtuous and virtuouttii-iir(i**j
women are committed in N.H.W. than in other parts of the
world, you will justify your present argument, which, how-
ever. meanwhito goes for nothing. Womanly honour must
be held m precious as human life, but we don't see why men.
however degraded, should bo hanged to protect female vice
instead of female virtue. Bring forward a caso in which a
really honest woman has been brutally outraged, and, while
capital punishment is retained in tho code, you may, so far
as we are concerned, hang tho aggressor or aggressors os high
HainanP. JJ’xAYe don't sea wliy kaahouM.n’t Waggu
Wagga his Jawbone. . Wc know the joke is very thin
“ Occy " (Sale): Hsvs used one item. Thanks. ..."0.P.8.":
Yes, we do “ bolleve in Contagious Diseases Act." What
can't be suppressed should be regulated....." J.H.B.*
(Townsville): Many thanks...," P. Barkley " : The Bcl-
LETIN has never called anybody " Esquire " since tho mar-
riage of tho eldest son of an ex-high priest of Venus Cloa-
cena. " Esquire," was announced in th® .Sydney daily Press)
...."Truth" (Wellington. N.Z.): Wo note with interest
•that your bald-hsadod friend goes to Westminster Abbey....
P. l’arslow": We believe that should the cry at next Sand-
hurst Parliamentary electimfbc "Bailes or Wales," Bailee
will have a majority...." Wagga Sorry your account of
Jawbone Nvild's meeting did not reach us until too late...,
" Birwacl*Ask us something ewy-for instanoo, "who
iuvited Jawbone Neiid to Wagga ?".-..." P. W Cairns”: If
you emasculate men guilty of such offences, why not cut off
tho right hand of the-dironic forger and amputate the
" lightning left" of th® pugilist who wantonly bashes his
L.Uow-inan ? There are evidently many aspects of this ques-
tion undreamt of in your philosophy ,k J.M.": Do you
want a libel action ? If not don't ever again write that any
man " does nothing else but stand round and take tip."....
" Ciesar": You are sarcastic probably in presuming that you
"cannot write up to the level of our lofty intellect.”
"Lunatic": Shall be glad to accede to your request....
•' The "Old Boodle" referred to describes
any judge whoso favor in his own court assists a shallow-
minded relative practising as a barrister. And we may
regretfully add that tho term indicates a genus, not an indi-
vidual "Barcoo": Yourvertb may be shortly described
as “ Usrooo r0t”....“ No sympathiser with Crime”: We freely
admit that in some respects Noose South Wales is leagues in
oilva-ce of all other nations inner treatment of criminals.
It has, for instanec, the nioest and most comfortable gallows,
and completest set of triangles in the whole w0r1d.'..." K":
You may possibly b® capable of-believing when we draw your
attention to the circumstance that the reputation of Wagga
barmen is a matter of comparative indifference to all the rest
of the world, except perhaps Bpngaboo Uulch, and Tin Pan
nikin Hollow. There arc no points about your barman no
more than about any other barman, and as, in the usual order
of things, be will probably be a Potts' Point nobleman and
Member of Parliament inside of five years, we really don’t
see why we should ruthlessly offend biin.... "Ex. Hnrmer":
We do not " wildly sneer." Judging from the tenor of the
various orations at that particular meeting of the Y.M.O. A.
we should say there are very few godly people Sydney.
One of the regenerated, we observe, thought that no snvoker
c-mld by any strcUh of charity be accounted a Christian.
Another of tho redeemed hinted pretty broadly that liquor.
and his particular brand of the Gospel didn't agree. A
thkd—the greatest gun of all-wanted to know whether
Christ ured trains on the Sabbath day. No? Clearly, then,
no person who dM so in these days could be a Chilian.
Can yom wonc)er that so many revolt against the Christianity
of the age in view of facts like these, and in view also of tho
circumstance that yoa can always fiod a hundred persons to
bless judicial murder toone whmu you can get to irk f.ir m«rc)?|
. v ‘‘<’harles W.": The An, Art article on Governors Gip|»s and
Fitrroy own- written by Hir James Martin. If not, how came
it to* happen that Sir James did not deny their authorship
when it was ascribed to him by Mr. Itwton in his hook?
Later on. hr newspaper articles written to show that the late
CTibf Justice bad in early life written many hot'litels, ex-
tract* from the diatribes in question were jg{vt>ii and Hir
Jit him was again jaiblicly named ss the waiter. Yet he did*
not iu any way deny tho inq caclunemt. You ray Lowe
(Lnrd Uherbrooke) wrote the articles, lm* how do you know?
Ho L»r, ull the evidence is on the other fide...."R A.P.": A
neat little sketch in verse, but for pu-sent purpose* not
worth a RAP.H.E.W.”: Whew l A smart, but
too tropical little story "Aramis": Received
"M.C.' (Wagga): Good style, but you -must be more cc-ucire
in writing for The Bulletin.-..." H. Burton”: Allth®
Sydney people are just now- out of town- except the hang-
man.. .Wellington " : We have missed the passage. Why
not clip newspaper extracts and- mail same Ih envelope?....
“T. Campbell": For heaven's sake come one day and let us
have a look at you. The best time for you to call will be
precisely wt 2.25 a.iu. on 31th December, 2087. Ring the bell
twico and knock once and beware of the dog -also take c >ro
of the soap on th® stairs and don't in any way annoy either
the pugilist on the first landing or the oac-vycri strong man
with the broken nose and bad temper whom you wifi | ro-
bs bly ttnd griadhrg someone's shall with a brkrk at Uiv foot
of the top st«|)s. ... ..
N. S. WALES JUS
THE MOUNT RENNIE EXEC
Tho fate of the six youths—tb
age is under 18 years—condemned
what is known ms the Mount Rennl y
now absolutely in the hands of Ooven >
ton, who, despite tho rceommondatio |
him by his Ministors, gfciti enjoys urn
structions from the Im])erial autlioril
plete and*' independent j»o\ver of roprio
BULLETIN contends that His Execllenc,
the interests of justice, couunnte tlu
sentences, if only on the ground that ' j
have never had a proper trial aecordm j
spirit of the British law. Most of. the!
defended by unpaid junior counsel assig
the Crown, and, monstrous to relate, th
by which they were sentenced sat during
lotving hour* :
Monday 10 a.m. t® 9 p.
Tuesday 9 *.w. to IL3O
Wednesday 9a m. to 6.3 C
Thursday 9 a.m. *o i. -
Friday 9a.w to 3.3
Natufday 9 a.m. to mi<
On Wednesday and Thursday, tho only t
on which the pretiding judge adjourned
cccdings at a reasonable hour, lie calmly
semi-public dinners at Government Houao f
Reyal Hotel respectively. And .yet, thou.
Honor found timo to spend in festivity on
two uights, on tho two fallowing days andj
he kept the Court sitting almost continuous
other words, with t h c exception of an. interm
of .tire hours only, Judge Windoyer kept j«
counsel at work from nine o'clock on ■
morn-in ft until twelve o'clock on Saturday*
in tho middle of the hot season and in til
atmosphere of a crowded court. Tho unnoof
protracted ness of Monday and Tuesday’s si
was hardly loss disgraceful when we coi
consider what happened on the two suoc<
days.
* * *
And whatr was ttaiTTßmssquSfice ?
natural ono: that certain jurors, who h&<
been in enstody for close upon a weok, u
broke down, and, according to the statemc
fed eral mombers of the bar, were, duringjtl
stages of the trial, dozing, if not actually a
in tho jury-box I But it happens tba
testimony of counsel in this respect is altof
superfluous, inasmuch as Mr.
ono of the iury, who writes to
News a letter commented *
English” column of to-d'
tin, roundly state;
through “because i
under the strain."
In drawing His . .
-Uiis-y-iolation-of-thc iir~~ * '
may remark that th jj
well have been -tried
partially drunk as befoi t
exhausted and partial
llkhai.d has admitted t.
the trial was conducted w «
tiou, and Tiik Bulletin it MM
a number of gentlemen* \\nu *vui pioJB
satisfaction Of any unprejudiced tribunijH
exhausted condition «jf the jury -wasysSi
render it mint they could ik»f
spirit approach thr ilischargo of theirp®
sfionsihility— a if pildbility which,
midnight aiul nl’ hit sittings, was in itn*;
cient to shake t trdes of any sentient )K
♦ • * 1
"In Bulletin assef/
tho execution Ji,® s?b.ninals convicted urn.
circumstances will disgrace tho British hg
send a thrill of horror throughout tho
world.
Sabbath pbeerrance. The wily coni
watching a pub op SrincTAy.
‘‘Girls’ Goisip'' ac<
in tho Echo. It was necessary to giv£
caption to distinguish it from the ‘‘Old
Chatter ” in the balance of the paper.
Melbourne Weekly News says “3®
common practice among tiio Romans to rJc'
length while writing." VVo.can we noth! ?
ilcrful in that. It is stHl a common praqS;
evening journalists to lie at length while y
There is nothing new under tho gim—nh
this remark. y


SUNDRY SHOWS
TniTir Royal-*" Tho Sleeping Beauty” „ it
Al«ami*ia Mime Hai l—Muiatrelw " p ‘ 1
Atollo Hall—Stmtsburg Clock.. ” "
The temperature afc Sydney Opera House
when Minnie Palmer mode her debut was like
u*to that of a swindled pawnbroker in the stoke-
hole of the seventh Gehenna. AM this end of
crcAtion seemed to have rolled up, from the Premier
to th* habitual drunkard, and from the Reverend
Prayologist to tho Chinaman, while among the
intermediate grades there wero horse-thieves,
wooden-legged men, Idiots, bush missionaries!
hypocrites, Mombcrs of Parliament, niggers
rheumatic patients, men whoso heads had boon
knocked flat In infancy, swells who lived on their
parents, tighUy-laeed ladies with red hair, and
many other sorts and descriptions of publicans and
sinners. Unto this vase and husky assemblage
Minnie unfoldod her tale, while a fat, tierce old
woman threw potatoes at a Dutchman, and a
uuuibor of oUior people fooled round. When she
hAd finished there was only ono opinion in tho
•rowd—Bh# wns as unique ns a brass god that
chews tobacco, and ns airy as a N.B.W. Parlia-
mentary lie. But without her “My Sweetheart ”
would be an elephantine fraud. It was only built
to hang Minnio on to—wo trust the young lady
wiU excuse that gallows figtise of speech—and if
anyone elso wero hang on it instead, it womld let
her down with fa crash that would turn her into
a pillar of and the Uckot-mkcr might go and
peek up of the wreck seven baeketsful.
• * •
It is very hard to disentangle the inferior
characters. Minnie's aged mother, who weighs
-w ton or thereabouts, comes out and tries to flog
an orphan asylum with a haystack, and Minnie
aosecs her within an inch of her life, yet nobody
scorns to have any sympathy for tho corpulent vic-
tim. An aimless doctor, who ought to be grinding a
glorified pestle and mortar up atyve, so woefully
good is ho, leans up against a mansion for pigs,
and hints to the public that ho has resolved to
grasp tho gentlemanly cow by tho spikes that
stick out from the front of ite skull. He adds,
hdwever, flint he is very much afraid tho other
woman is the same ono that he saw* before, or if
she isn't she is so liko the previous woman that
he fears she is-a regular bad lot *ust.as the former
woman was Next, there is a dudo whose sconfeed
handkerchief Minnio puts under a shower-bath.
He is a fearful old dude, too, chokod up with
ignorance, and so tightly laced in that ho can't
even stoop to pick np hi a own delirious hat. No
were! has yet boon built that would fully describe
tko fatuous gobble which this manioc thinks Is
conversation,. Lastly, there is Tony Faust, a jolly
young Gorman, who absolutely whoops with good
nature andhowls with joy. Hissinlleislikothegush-
ing of clean shirts out of a burst carpet-bag • his
hair sticks up on end, his coattail floats round
like a poem, and his legs are an opera. Minnie—
whom, by the wajr wo should have described us
Tina—bosses hin. as she doee nil the rest, and.
thanks to his -nperious little tyrant., his life is
liko that of a driren bullock—but ho doesn’t
know it,
* * •
“My Swoethcart ,v is not a melodrama
after all. Neither 1b it &n opera, or a circus, or a
tailors establishment—in fact, wo don’t know
exactly what to call it. It is as undoflnablo as a
bine dog in n dark entry, but Minnie pervades it
all, sousing every body ,i»ak ing comic grimaces at the
proua young doctor, raising perennUrCain upon
tho Ughfc-laced dude, bringing her mother’s grey
hairs with serrow to tho grave, and generally lay-
ing waste the fertile field of tho human intellect.
Sho Is well supported by the other members of
the company, but with her usual monopolistic
tendency she has taken up so much of our space
that we must postpone thorn until next week
when our seething brain will be let loose ih a
newly-stufled aad upholstered oondltion for the
benefit of long-suffering colleagues.
#* * #
“ The Woman ef the People ” at Sydney
Gaiety is the same aid beer-crusher that we have
known aad hated so long. It is quo more insult
to the whisky tied, downtrodden working man
nnd was evidently written by some yellow!
shrivelled, teetotal dummy, who would fain
make mankind walk around as dry as so many
wooden gods. Roughly speaking, the piece is a
delirium tremens broken up into three snakes
and a comprehensive pink dog. Mr. Sheridan,
tho hero, takes to drink on his wedding dnv, and
1 ) ko ftn 061 on a greased Incllno ;
while his friend Chevrti-or Horse, a* his name
''*»ild read in English—vainly tries to hold him
*? ft and long-suffering
mmvWual, and be sticks to his w-ork like the grim
oM Hofse ihat hg though his' mission is a
tbooklea eae at the best. His peculiarity is that
he to always <m the spot. Whoa Bertrand is gazing
o* the beer while it is brown, Hcrsc is there to pray
the i a b€or ’ Whon Bertrand, under
the ceatroMlag iaflueucc of dfink, starts to perpe-
m v. CVf I o *. ol u » ,inu *». Horse is there,
hiSSJSI him-and for tho job. When the
ow>kmi.donm wreck *f the young husband is wan-
ing about m the snow-dirtr, unshaven, and
m ttght as a whale stuffed into a cab-we may
oM Hon*. though K
roulS ’th. ‘ f lltUK , 0,1 « *»r»t«p
ol . C °°f ncr aad waiting Iris chanco.
when temperance triumphs
' "WWUMM rutnos out this sido np wife
,Tn . <lirino that ia a halo of glory
load*nf I f? rBe \« and that after dragging his omnibus'
of morality around, till all is blue,'he at last
meets his just reward, But wo must drop a tour
and pass on. This paper isn’t a stable or a
monagcrio.
• • • ■
Mr. Sheridan was better aa Bertrand than
In many other characters he has assumed, and
lmrdly think ho left anything undone in the war
of aloohoi. When tho little pink dogs with the
green eyes got hold of him an2 > were chasing him
into the swamps of Tophet, he waaxpally excellent
and he iHjrformed this part so welßhat we almost
think he should have continued drunk for the rest
of his natural life. Miss Davenport, too, was un-
usually good in tho part of Madelalne, the drank
ard’s wife, and in the scone outside.the Foundling
Hospita! her realistic acting brought down the
house. The piece might be almost a good one if
It were not for the cab mission and rovival ahlvoo
element which chokes it up, but at all events it
was played in a manner that made it about ns
interesting as it was in the nature ef the animal
to be, and the audience, of whom there were more
than several, was unanimous in its applause.
## * #
Tho Sydney Criterion opened *n Monday
night with “ Falka,” and a big crowd, and his
E^ctflency—described in the km ns the Right
Hon. ( liarlo« Robert Baron Carirgton P.C
G.C.M.G.—to get behind things ahiigivo them a
shove when they stuck in the ditch. Outside the
house was a howling mob who had been unable te
gain admittance, and who overflowed from tho
pavement to tho gutter and from tho gut Ur to the
public-house at the owner, and inside the promises
were crowded till the air was like the blast that
arises front the bottomless pit when tho lid is
taken off. Miss Colbourne-Baber opened the per-
formance by singing the N’atipmU Anthem, and
then the curtain rose to show a* old Hungarian
city with quaint, lop-sided houses . Chat should
have been shovelled away before 'the Board of
Health got hold of them. In .this town lives an
old military delusion of tho first magnitude, who
hardly knows a regiment horn a comet, or a
comet from tho dog-star. This gentleman sends
tor his nephew, but the latter gets kicked and tied
to a tree en routs, asd drops into a matrimonial
engagement with the sister of an unwashed buf
picturesque and murderous comic thief. When
at last he arrives, instead of calling on his wealthy
uncle he gives way to temporary insanity and takes
a billot as waiter at die local public-house, whore
ho goesabouewith adirtynapkinovorhlsarmbawl-
ing in Hungarian, “ Sherry sir. yetwir ; d’rectiy,
sir. Meanwhile tho sister of this youth elopes from
school and is chased by a fat monk known as
Brother Pelican. The pursuit gets hot and sultry,
and tho girl in despair disguisos herself in pante
and passes off as the misguided wfeteh who is
shovelling out hash and small beer at the Inn
Then she is fallen by the sinter of the
dirty and picturasque thief. Who wants to marry
her; the waiter at the km tails into a coaTceUar
and if he docsnT break any btmes ho ought to ’
and things get as confused and miserable as a
furtoral with the dead gentleman drunk and going
round trying toflnd oul something *‘agla Abigail.”
• •
Shortly after this, tho girl in boy's clothes
is bowled out. and tho miserable bbot-pblisher
from the hotel mats aside his flunkey garb and
roveate himself by means of the strawberry
mark on his left arm. while tho old military
uncle gets wild at the tricks that have been
played on him. Tho boot-polisher’s sister is
put in gaol, and her lover is left to wail in a ditch
’ and lay schemes for her rescue. While she
languishes in a dungeon the ex-wuiker makes pre-
parations for getting hiarried, but his bride ahunte
him at the.last moment, and the sister of the thief
who t led him to the tree at the beginning of the
story taken her place 111 disguisfc. Tho imprisoned
lady is then bailed out. and they live happily ever
afterwards. There is a certain amount, of good
music in the opera, arid “Fatten.” so long as it
has Ldrd Carington to help it through, should be
a considerable succoss.
r* #•# # #
Trot out the man who will dorp to say he
does not likjs a Christmas Pantomime—that ho dooe
not absolutely worship tho frothing drwo! of the
nursery rhymes,' and long to abase himself before
the gilded crctiqs and incurable large-headed
Idiots who form the chorus. Let us see tho grovel-
ling reptile who ventures to think that a goose
with apple sauce, and on elephant, and seven'
saints and ten drunkards, anil a baron nmned
Bottlcwoseher, and a bilious old fool of a King
with a comet at the eml of his nose, are not high'
art-just let us see him. that’s all. Let us whisper
tho reply. Wo are the grovelling reptile ij,
question. Wo arc. And anyone who wants to
revel in tho above catalogue of joys with the
Faust Pamiiy -of acrobats, fee., thrown in, will
find tho set at Sydney Royal
* * •
“Tho Sleeping Beauty, v however, has
every advantage that magnificent scenery can
ponfer, and tho whole crowd from King l>owni-
dumps She Hungry, down to Mrs. Harris, Pap
Mixer in ordinary, look as gofgcous as the tailer
can make them. The piece has boen fixed np by
Mr. Alfred Mokby, and that gentleman is as ver-
satile aa a circus. He is a poet too, in proof of»
which wo quote these truly Cockney lines
, . , , Which, bices her little gums—
I dropped her bootee down a neighbour's hairy,
Which hit took ms and Mrs. Oatup—that's Sairer,
To 'ook hit hup—there mts no p'Heemsn andr,
fasitU/ Which tho' we met one where no got tho brandy
(tUoud/ That's why Tin late, your weak'up. IMm* hsr'art.
This forma part of a dialogue, between
Mrs. Harris, wko is half drank, and the old king,
who looks as if his hair had been chewed off by a
goat, fl gopd deed of Australian stuffing has
boen put into Mother Gooso, and this takes well
with the audieifte ; and there are lots of jokes
ffuch as—but n«P we won't quote them. It is
sufficient to eay in passing that the pantomime
absolutely bulges with them. Anyone who really
adores pantomime, and doesn't care though one
of the leading actors forgets his part half the
time, can’t do better than visit Bydney Royal uj
and the enthusiastic howl of the accumulated
. mob shows that the piece is appreciated, at all
events. Also we would suggest that the visitor
had better.go early.
* * # $^
Wo hate to slight- anyone, even a nigger,
and we would not eo much as east a cold, arrogant
gftiaec on a fowl for fear of hurting that fowl’s
feelings. Therefore wo hasten to apologise to the
Federal Minstrels for our inability to give them
tlife notice they defcrve. We Wrivcd late at the
Academy, and though we elmiwed the hind quart-
ers of the orowd with iasensuterury and a batter-
ing rain, we. were imahle to obtain even standing
room in that synagogue of joy. From this piece
of circQmstantltU ovidcnce, however, we presume
there was something particularly good going on
insftle, and when we jumped in tho air in order to
get a glance over the head, of a Brobdignaglan
monster in front wo saw o m black man seize
another by the heels and throw him up till his
head bumped against the roof. When ho came
» Blc kening thud, another nigger
» Uirew hITO np l * lxin ‘-iil there
a 1,01,0 lcft of the "Mawlto victim.
ah ° i rost f . of the Performance, we understand,
SSWSLT“ e mtl ° of actlvlt y- and if tiie
mine was not a eaooesa then the bill
must have been an atrocious hyperbole and a dis-
grace to human morals.
*# # *
The Manly Aquarium was opened on the
BU1 ’ **** of the Soudan, In the
presence of a large crowd and a lot of flsh. The
fc tS? er °, V,^ d preB ° nt « uite a ** la
miniature, tho only feature which is wanted to
ocmJftfw!# eoinplrto being tho presence of a
oouploof captains butting aach other down with
heir sea-cofflns into the briny deep. There aro
marine animals of all descriptions, a* well as
ferns roclcwork, stalactites, shells, a refreshment
thM*fh/» alligators, and, in short, everything
Jl , l|Wl l of man can desire, and if under
l ho Manly Aquarium is not
a ww>cc«d onr faith in human naturo will undergo
w he like compound Hebrew
interest turned upside down.
## # *
Mr. D’Arcy Read’s Ghost presented its
epoctral card to the Australian public at Sydney
Princess on Monday night. This ghost is very
n f^ ct * iL ia n whole collection of hob-
goblins of all alia pea, sizes, and descriptions, and
IhJS« r . OIIS of doad,lCM3 - It Is a musical
shade, too, and runs a whole howling programme
on Its own spectral hook, so that* ? X™
Xv,th that class who are addictod
## * *
.. J A ho L y, nch Family are making
Merry Christmas on the boUring through
Kempsey and adjacent cities, picking tho golden
plums out of the bucolic pudding, with tho ability
k.li I m A M eVer # todi6a i i 7® 0f 8011(1 & ol dus. A bloom-
ing maiden of some 45 searing summers is reputed
renwtod on seeing th?m at
" Ingham, Ah, thoso dear Lynches, they ought
sever to die 1 And we den’t think they will so
long a* this universe contains a solitary boll that
SS to ™ld Who * V * in * inK 11 a 8in * le front seat
#* # *
At Bfc. George’s Hall, Melbourne, Signori
A *T Htl J^ OM<; ro are experimenting witli a
rather high-class variety show. The muscular
Italian athlete. Sail, flings about a few tons
° f ir u ; a Mr. F. Harvard makes a lady
vanish through a table. Several well-known
stars from music-halls have been secured.
Miss Alice Conway and Mias Ada Vinetta, beauti-
ful to look uiwu and listen to, warble about rip-
pling streams and kissing till the dudes in the
front spats positively perspire with jov. But the
feature of the entertainment is Wainratta, who
was crowned “ King of the Wire " some yeare ago
and continues to keep the billet In owning cos-
tume and a heavy moustache Wainratta strolls
about on a slack wire stretched over the heads of
the audience. There is such an air of easy confi-
dence and qiiite-at-homeness about this gontlomon
Uiakoni‘«aii sit underneath him without feeling
pertiybed in spirit As a silent humorist Wain-
ratta stands alene in-«r en-liis particular line.
Ladies who liaven’t blushed for years find the
wurm~blood rushing to their dear littlo cheeks
when the masher above their heads deliberately
proceeds to undress himself. We blushed our-
wives until it dawned upon us that the black
moleskiu trousers covered pale pink flashings,
rhe.i we breatked again, and observed that the
laihcs alarms hud melted into dimpled smiles, a
very good orchestra lias been laid on, aud the boll
Ails with “ superior ’’ comjian.v at prices in keep-
ing with their quality.
# # #
A nauseating doso of “God Save the
Queen” and other grovel had to be swallowed at the
owning of the now Princess Theatre, Melbourne.
Tho 1000 hqree-power “loyalty” of the triumvi-
rate was strained to its uttermost Proceedings
oponed--immediately after the Governor’s arrival
—with that exquisite piece of tomfoolery, the
National Anthem, warbled by the entire strength
of the company. Then some weak-minded crea-
ture In tho amphitheatre (specially engaged by the
management for thip night only) called for three
cheers for .Sir Henry Lteb. All this Bcemcd to
please tho “circle,” and as the circle had bought
its seats at auction for a high figure, perhaps it
was ontitled to enjoy Itself in its own way. For-
tunately, one theatre CAn only have one opening
night, and a free and enlightenod publlo can now
patronise the Prinoess* witheut loss of self-respect.
Glowing accounts of the magnificence of this
newest of theatres have keen published in the
Melbourne papers. Without imperilling our im-
mortal soul, wo can take an affidavit that-there is
no othor such house in Australia ; there aro few to
beat it in the whole wide world. It is rich in
marble steps, peacock-blue plush, mimic water-
falls, refreshment-rooms, and Neapolitan i»es—
not to mention an open-air lounge and a sliding
dome . This latter arrangement enables one to
gaze at the bluo canopy of heaven and make
agronomical surreys ’tween acts. When the
dome slides it is like being at a‘ picnic, without
the ants and earwigs. A revival of “ Mikado ”is
helping to pay for all this magnificence, and looks
like keoping the boards for some few weeks.
** # *
Like all other civilised communities, the
Japanese Villagers have been luxuriating in a
littlo social scandal. A' few nights ago one Jap.
chased another Jap. through tbo Melbourne
streets with ii naked sdmkar, all on account of a
fotr hut frisky fellow countrywoman. Thereat
of the Village came to the rescue add no blood
was spilt Explanations followed, and everybody
returned homo without a stain on their characters.
Nevertheless this little incident has invested the
lady Japs, with fresh interest—a kind of Lady
Colin Campbell charm—and provides visitors
with pleasant opportunities for spicy conjecture.
The Village keeps up its business in all weathers,
and the pin aerial flight is ns popular as a public
holiday. But soon Qio whole show will emigrate
to Tasmania, leaving naught but Oriental memo-
ries behind,
#* # #
Mr. Joubert is unable to obtain a wine
and spirit Hcense for the Alexandra Theatre, Mel-
bourne. According to Graham Berry's delectable
Act no fresh licenses can be granted within the
•ity, except to buildings containing 30 bedrooms ;
so, until Mr. Joubert turns the pit into a boarding
house or fixes up SO rooms at tho back of the
drone circle, his ]>utrotis must get happy on lemon-
ade. Buch Is tho law, dear friends.
.** * *
Mr. Martin SSroonaen’s Italian opera
spec, bids fair to falsify -all sinister predictions.
On the strength of “subscriptions” amounting to
something under £2OOO, Mr. Bfmeascn undertook
,wbnt at flast appeared a hopeless job. . But he
started under conditions more favourable than
was generally suspected. Really hi,. m
artistes were obtainable In Italy on terms m
MP ° I T J^ u * >tc > r for Lh « boss, pn od
that the general public nocorded him fair an. * n ..
sisteut support. It certainly seems as thoug is
wiU bo forthcoming. The nightly asp*** J
Alexandra Theatre, Melbourne, is cheering < off
nights, and * brilliant in the extreme ” whe lie
local royalty, personated by Sir Henry Loci n d
M l.™ “ llond nbout °“W “ W«* OH
an a\erage, Mr. Simouaen may be said to h ive
got siissiety on tho hip. And what is of more iim
I rtance, Uie unfashionable masses who judgo a
wdll kee,^MwUn Vh * ,ret4ont enthusiasm
boiling point is a conundrum which
After* th far “ nH^' cr ? d bi two guesses-yes or no.
After this week there will be live first-class
theatres and acoupl 0 of halls spring thSr
neu for tho Melbourne Ashes. Some of them are
wa^™^, hftVo lU< ?' But ttU thia Is - by the
and r d ° nCherknoW ' “ 11 Trovatore"
Rn , „ h»ucla di Lammennoor.” are bein» nd.
m n stored in alternate dLsos ,o^oo^
fortnight. A separate company appears in each
opera, and the principals, without exception And
£?1, Clnti “ nd *“«o WtSS
ire soprani that don t hang promiscuous from the
v,XwM°', IS , Tho fon >'" h« « volJmo or
,u 2U nUOd j 'Jif “l” ido U3 Aloxamlm with
»il>or> music, and the latter sings not unite so
well, but equalises matters by acting rather bet tor
Cayaileri backs up n light contralto
2. r l v a gO T I pr6Bonco ftn <* plonLy of dramatic
power. No such tenor as Signor LmSzarini has
prc\ lously warbled In these sunny shores. Every-
hody wys so and everybody ought to know*
Sld'sKiT W '" l f r ' y dow ln **“«n>«
uno, and Signors Pmiuszoni and Eduardo Cemo
lirst'chS?? Ing 1 ng ! y 01086 ” ameB Ioav « our pon) are
first-class baritones. Signor Tomaso Do Altai re-
U B , Pl !° d i d kof 80 Profundo which occasion-
all), descends to double Z. Other members of
company will probably get a god „n« biy
have layer opportunities In other operas tn
aro gomi with tho solilnry oacoplion of a Mt£
Flora Qraupnor, whose manner and am )( l«r,n
arc out of harmony with Grand Tim
orchestra, under the baton q t RobcrtotWnn®
J° strong, well together,and jWulittte foJrtSS?
ous at the drum end. No vast amahnt * 'UJ O *-
hfis been Invested in scenery, nor is eitoiSSS* ‘
NovPH» n ?i POeB ? i »b l . 0 froni a business point of vfoO,-
Nevertheless, it is unsatisfactory to find „ •• u
adjoining the Chapol of Caatelior" furnished sff
• Hv.-Wlllng table, n two.abUHngtoblecbti?<rf
Bradford manufacture, and a nainfullv »SIS f
bent-wood chair. litrio mittc
b&bly be attended U> as the tide of success Aowb in
The chore. Is unjunttirnlng in tho vocal /leJ.nu‘-n t '
but appears to be well drilled. TherefaT m ,?k
scnce of life about their movements, and we should
n straight drink nil r,,7
before they commence their
tt for aU in all. Mr. 81, non,™ dccrTc. the itSkS
of every man Jack who hath music ln his Soul
# 4? '
Even the much-puffed Minnie'’ Palmer
seems to be a little behind in the matter ofad«r
tismg, or else that fluffy little darlings hiuWrf
and manager is not doing her full. i-iicc. JUotSJ
Minnie, whose hind name s iluuk has w.,
starring in Arizona, and her nian of bLfm!
stales that after her Arst appearance 12 Apache
chiefs went out and roostc l on the feneS and
drew lota who should marr her. The 1 UoSSJ
promptly committed suicid. , and tho vC
fought 17 rounds with the Udket-takor boforn hi
abandoned his claim. Now, if ‘the aUfIbJS
corpses of 11 suicides could be fouml in
tie Sydney Oj»em House, what an “ ad ”
that would be for Minnie Palmer 1 U *
## # £
Messrs. Brough and Boucicault disdain the
use of the * gaudy and higbly-oolomed window
. * * * *
Miss Carrie Swain has turned out to bo bv
no moans too high-toned for the Cabbage Garde/
Of her performance In “The Tomboy*’ th«
10 *» » “~-»..nd 0 »u«
to on ictntt that she can kick a hat off a gentlc-
,man s head. 3iiss Carrie, it appears, «i TO wears
a “ragged petticoat” and “turns BomeSauitf“
WTiat more do the bald want t
♦# # #
The Rev. Alexander APCully, t>f Mol-
bourne,Js attracting some little attention aHa
public reciter. A few years ago Mr. Mac. tribd
his luck as a super, at the Melbourne Theatre
Royal. Promotion was slow, and the ambitious
banner-bearer went off to Dublin and took hohr
orders. He found it easier to get a decent screw
as a parson than as a huctor. For one thing a
reverend can have a ben. whenever he likes by
sending round the plate. Then, again, •* trea
sury - |g a dead certainty in the church. One
ghost walks when the other ghost doern’C This
joke needs thinking about.
A North Queensland paper replies to a
correspondent's query' thus: “Goldsmith was
not a clergyman ; he was an Irishman.” t
“ What doth it profile bishop to gain the
whole world if he loses his own soul t” This i*
easily a year or thoroabouts.
I p North at a recent execution, just as
the man was about to be launched Into eternity
Mn no 1 bßdo ' OO ln «" d
The Rei. Mr. Bath, bma Wesloi’an of
Victoria, is conspicuous, in connection wit?, the
Chinese mission. Good. The average afinu
b^*at$ mPt Cliow Mill certainly bo by proved
Several licensed lictuallers in the Mary-
borough district (Vic.) have decided to forfeit
their licenses. This is not so much owing to the
increased vigilonce of tho police there as to their
increased capacity—for free drinks. \
Tho last report of the Victorian Board for
tho protection of nboriginos concludes by savin*
that “ the conduct of tho aborigines on the diffe/
cut stations had been of a satisfactory character "
This means that abou(?ls per cent, of them have
been buried during the year.
'-V'•* I __ L r -■ *■ ' J '• r ■
COMPARISON.
In ttik production or
the Christmas Num-
ber of “ Tiie Bulle-
tin," December, 1885,
6& tons or PAPER
WERE USED.
OVKK 13 TONS WHKIIIT
OF PARER VTXKK USED
IN TUE PUBLICATION
OP TUB CiIKISTMAB
Number or “The
Bulletin," Decem-
uek 25th, 1886.


PEPPER
Salt
After all death is only a joke, a grim little
satire perpetrated by a dancing skeleton with a
rcytoe, who grins as he shove* Ida victims into
the labyrinth of the Dim Remote. There is fun
in it, however, If we only knew how to extract
it; there Is gaiety even In a corpsa, and subdued
laughter In a tombetono, and a
something that Is calculated to convulse a hone
with laughter. Nor la there anythtag surprising
in this. There U granite in toe petals of a roe.*ad
required for the construction of a cannon-ball or
a dog, andftnnd Is liked with the element* of com-
bustion, so why should there not be laughter in
to* dry bones of toe dead 1 But tho process of
1 tanging is not replete wltfi gaiety. It was ob-
viously the invention of a solemn, heavy-headed
clown, and men who appreciate the requirements
of the human race oaU for some comic style of
murder that will interest alike toe corpse and
Ihs corpse's mothsr-ln-law and all his friends, ss
wall as the Gov'erament House ret who come to
learn a solemn lemon from Judicial slaughter, and
toe licensed noseless assassin who “works off"
the victim. The German* are ahead of us In re-
oognlslng this long-felt Want, *hd Saxony Is even
new considering the advisability of adopting an
.miming oontrivancc which trill make death at-
tractive to all part let concerned. Outwardly it con-
sists merely of an Iron chair, on too back of which
is perched a figure of Justice, with the scales In one
hand and the sword In the other, and looking like
an old metal rooster Just about to crow. But
Justice, as usual, is hollow, and its Inside Is filled
with slectri# wires and Budden death. When the
criminal Is brought out he is planted In the chair
with the Image behind him, and then a pompous
official takes his place alongside this' carved libel
on a great virtue, and proceeds to read the Judg-
ment In the booming snuffle peouliar to such func-
tionaries. The prisoner listens, and each dull
sentanoemarks his nearer to
is a moment of solemn silence. Then the execu-
tioner slowly folds up the death warrant, and
places the stiff parchment In the scale which Jus-
tice holds In Its out stretched hand ; toe arm of
the balance descends, and as it doe# so It closes
the electric circuit, and in toe fraction of a
second all Is over. In the face of such an inven-
s. lion as this, who will deny that even murder can
he made amusing and picturesque!
i •
Melbourne cabmen aro protesting against
toe granting of drier's licenses to Chinese. A
resolution, approving to* righteous protest, baa
been carried unanimously in this office
Poor old Baron Tennyson, whose last
sparks of genius were smothered by a coronet, has
ground ont a pome about the Importance of
building some more torpedo-boats. This great
work, according to an Aok telegram, "Is based
on to# remarks contained in toe paper read before
the Royal Colonial Institute by Sir Graham Berry.”
Great Soott I
The ordinary frog-hyporbolater is haring a
rest just now, but the great snake-liar seems to be
In full blast. Down South a reptile crawled under
a sitting dnek, and after swallowing toe 13 eggs
Itself round toe neck ’of the wronged quacked
and waited results. It was killed shortly after-
wards, and Its carcase being opened toe eggs were
taken out and hatched in toe usuaj course, but
each duckling had a mark like a snako on its
head. Apropos of Use in general wo may add
that the sea-ierpcnt recently came ashoro on a
- «coral island In the South PaMflc, and ate four
shipwrecked sailors, taking one each night. It
was 75ft. long, aad in to* fight which attended Its
last visit It threw seyeral men a dozen yards in
toe air, broke two legs, a collar-bone, and fonr
ribs belonging to the captain, and smashed nearly
every bone in ttye crow. Its bite was venomous,
and everybody who was touched with Its teeth in
toe scrimmage was slowed—we mean slain.
Just about this season of the year the
roysterlng Sunday-school picnic seeks the 'leafy
solitude to revel In tarts and cream, pouni cake,
and sinful woridlinsss; aad too-bull-dog antis
Ape and ready—he, toe jovial, mercurial
With his fund of pointed humour and world of
prastieal Jokes, nothing that lireth and has being
knocks more fun out of a laborious existence
than does the Hgbt-hearted, heady Inch-man. We
have studied his life and work* closely and know
him well. When the rollicking roundelay of a
Moth odist meet dUturbs toe holy quiet of his
solitary haunts, he rear* on to hi* hind legs and
peers through the grass chuokling soft and low.
Hs keeps the flighty throng In sight, and after
they camp to rend the ropy sandwich and battle
with the crumpet sprotfl round on tho verdant,
flower-spangled banka ’neath too blossoming
gums, he creepeth In among them and playeth his
pranks. Jolly, cheerful sprite, we love him
dearly. A preacher of “Trewth" at Smeaton
(Vic.) ono* took his flock into the wild woods to
oommuno with Nature and consume light whole-
somj repast. They were a goodly company, and
their pastor was sanctity embodied—pale and
poorly, with a dim, remote gaze In hU dark, un-
fathomable orbs ; earnest, rot lank, ethereal but
bilious, he was much respected
she could lift him by the ear, ’twas said, and she j
often enough made timee lively for that Interest- :
lng and promising, young clergyman. When the ,
po verUheJueat'th e'ju venSl
section broke off In couples
their elders coiled ’in the
•hade and rested. The
who taught Sunday-school
botanical specimens; his
wife slept in the shelter of
an extempore mia-mla, and
aU was calm and bright.
caslotal twitter of a gorged
parrot up amidstj the blos-
som. But ther«
from the forest Again and
shrill, and 50 shining lights,
pillars of the temple, set
MlnUter in the ran. ’ In a
beautiful eecluded spot upon
ttio groon sward, where a
girl who taught school. The
latter was kicking out In
pig-jumps, while toe guiding
star wrestled with her and
looked scared enough to die.
conld botondored. a tower
took the rev. gentle-
ceeded to plough and har-
wlldernesa. He was banged
np against trees and welted
MORE TESTIMONIALS
[?]
drollery with which he Is crammod no one can tell.
To get a wolf Into a lea-cup, or a hone Into an
egg, doesn’t even begin to any comparison to
the tightness of the fit In his case. He was sum-
moned as a witness regarding the recent riots.
When Kdlth Chinlquy O’Gorman, alias Auffray,
and tho baby-holding professor had such a rough
time of it, and after describing himself as a
•‘clergyman of the holy order" he spake os
follows
•' McGuire cam. on to the tUse end ettempted to make a
than Binning: ha eras most respectful to me; he laid ha
Of cohrse. MoGulre might or might not be abso-
lutely hungering to biff the Inside out of every
other Protestant in the shanty, but most
SntotowM "more slnned««ainsttban sinning."
Perhaps Mac didn’t like to tread on a crushed
worm. "I did not leave until I finally left,"
' added the wltnoss, from which we understand
j that ho didn't slope till he departed, and when he
stayed away permanently
he didn't go back. A little
further on he explained that
*’ the reserved contingent
protected the platform, who
numbered about 25 or 30,
and were armed with tho
armor of righteousness.”
And yet while these lay-
men were trusting solely in
Providence the Rev. Ourrey
admits that he rolled up on
the platform armed with
the handle of a fire-shovel
long, wi-h a knob at the
end ; rathor a nice sort of
weapon for a^man^God
a spiritual sense," but Mr.
Conor himself seems to
literal and knobbjMnterpre-
Imps, however, tho shovel
must be regarded In a
spritual cense also as a sort
an allegorical nullah-at the
end ; but In that case the
revetondgentteman’s subtle
and freshly-upholstered joke
now universally sot down as
a clerical hard-hitter and an
| notaotuaUystrikeanybody!
viously ready for any em-
ergency, and so calm and
oollected amid the ragirg
la regarded as a party of
the streak-of-lightnlng de-
scription, an individual who
We have also received a copy of an address with which Mr. Justice Windeyer’s other tenants
(of Darllnghurst Gaol) would have presented His Honor but for the present unfortunate strin-
gency of the prison regulations :
tic/V/Uv fIBJ/
t JJt "She & > ycLyT } sdar(r)urst I
' 6otf 7 e °r Ckt *l
Slearij cy ft)* e.eo.v'e of Xwurl l>/3Cri-tue r 'O jj
jetfc, a rpWtb c\ —~£> ic b |
•a)e opej £3ifr J>e perrpapept •v/ayrea}f’e{° |
d/ parhei l»L y n ‘ 3
We jboje y'ou ZoW fyi “1 “ fift at
a Sty aper Cip peSer Jay J>’ ~ |
rate \<p (Shtfytoo '!
3tlore you <W fa oip.taUfiorej -rnnf„
Prwijf “\ouv Honor (dlfy tye our hre I
«"‘b your 6a,
Of your Ce 7 r,f me* l y Oj
yaw a/a Te<i«r vy / 77 0
0/ilrCjK, rueVTonpe Soon COOV b‘ ‘t ty I
lL,t Keren; Hi
meet nj - ayotyer Ciu />. 1
and maltreated till ho resembled an impecu-
nious dead-beat who had had an accident
with a - winnowing machino. The tower-
the siaUsra discovered it was only a bull-ant after
it returned homo gloomy and morose. The paTson
held up his head never again in that diocese, and
shortly after accepted a call to a distant land.
The Rev. Charles R. Curroy, of Lismore, i
(N,t W.) is a parson who absolutely bulges with
A priest from New Zealand arrived in
Melbourne lately, and fell among policemen. Ho
was BtajinjMjrith friends who missed him over
j charge of vagrancy. Thore was a time when that
• several miles of jt, would have boon struck
*lth lightning for this • sacrilege, and there
wouldn’t have been so much as a brick or a button
left to tell that they once existed. But those days
are no Wore. A policeman would think nothing
now of arresting tho Pope If he didn't “ move on ’’
when he was told to do so. Joseph Symes Is to
blame for most of this. Well, thank Heaven,
there Is a HelL
Is there no balm in Gilead for the un-
happy wretch who Is doomed to drink Sydney
water! We hare atudiod the habits of this de-
moralising liquid from every point of view, and
wo have come to the conclusion that It is sufficient
N. S*W? rapltaf. °Wo > havob°athed in \'t andshmL
dered ; we have consumed it Inwardly and been
smitten with physical anguish ; we have smelt it.
and oxamined it, and cursed It, and at last we
have had it analysed. As aresult, wo have found
it to be the following weird and Infernal
compound: water, 50 per cent; essence of.
(deceased), 4 per cent.; sulphate of doparted
horse, 5 per cent.; disintegrated sheep, 8 per cent.;
mud, 10 per cent.; grit, 7 per cent; iodide of dog,
6 per cent; live animal, 2 per cent.; fungus, 2 per
cent; something too horrible for inspection, 2 per
cent; with traces of chloride of cat .and peroxide
of prehistoric egg. And yet there are pious gen-
tleman who go about with hats that are too large,
and picturesque misfit boots that are too small,
who call on us to abjure whisky and rum and other
Incentives to progress on the trunk line that leada
unto perdliion—and drink this animal, vegetable,
and mineral liquid Instead I Perish tho thought t
A few days back tho “ converted ” and
regenerated Chows of a Melbourne mission gave
a froo lunch to their spiritual masters and the
other Europeans of the district who are grafting
to lead tho long-headed Celestial to graco. “ Jus-
tice was done to the good things." says a reporter
who was on the spot We havo witnessed a Mon-
golian theological banquet. Tho viands w cro a
hideous mystery. Animals and birds were there,
skewered and twisted and knotted out ot all rea-
son. pollshod up like a doctor’s sign and reeking
with grease. Dishes of vari coloured hash stood
about-drab, green, and yellow hash, fearful
medley in which perchance the limbe of an aged
world-worn foline commingled with tho interior
works of a pioneer rooster and fragments of 111-
fed rats. Fish, shrivelled and black as a dis-
carded boot, littered tho tablo along with grotos-
quo slabs of something like steaks from on Afri-
you might have ollod your hair lay sullenly In
dishes, and there were pilod in bowls-heads,
necks, livers, hearts, crops, feot and other miscel-
laneous scraps of poultry, all coated with a dark
men right away. We did not partake, and when
of the Melbourne yellow monkeys we shuddered ;
but a reportor, backed by on assortment- of tea-
meeting devastators, is good for anything that
Obituary from lie Melbourne Age :
For th«LoM h«kMW T th“ft°S« thebat.
So they opened tfce gate and let him'in."
These lines aro probably intended to console tho
friends of Sammy for his premature departure. .
But we think they have not got quite the hong ot
tho thing. Lot us try our hand
&*&£&* '
htif be ** tosrub-tJaen
The Queen has requested Sir Saul Samuel
to thank the Government of Nooso Bouth Wales
for the nugget of gold shown at tho late Exhibi-
tion which has been presented to her Majesty."
There Is more Joy in the Royal Family over that
ono nugget than over 90 loyal addresses. A few
Let each man now with glee be filled.
And bless himsolf.^Jj
If to our gracious Queen bo given
Leave to take with her up to Heaven
Tho has amassed down hero
This theme too sacred Is for laughter,—
To take the contract—and receipts -
For paring the celestial streets,
For the remainder of Hereafter.
Tho young son of a Melbourne Railway
official stole-his father's holiday-number family
«*■». “A congregating a hordo of unkempt
urchins, ho led thom.to the staUon to partake of a
country expense of Johnnie Go-
was'podgy and bore'un-
mistakable traces of Celestial origin ; while a
*>urth was as red headed as a feather-duster, and
as Oirish as the Jaynll Dan. A choice variety of
other stocks accompanied them—fourteen of a
family in aIL ’’ Are yes, lvery won. to’ chllther of
Mlather Blank t " queriod tho Zulu porter, cast-
eye upon the pass and the othor
" Then, be Jabers," gasped tho publio servant, “ I
loike his style I The whale 1" , The kids didn’t
take their tripjthat day, though.
The noble English investor will, as a rule.
Land Company Limited 1 prom Isos to°be too'much
eron for him. Anticosti is an island in the Golf
of St. Lawrence, measuring SO miles by 150, and
regarded as an abandoned, craggy, splintered,
ilre-doomcd heap of utter dosolatlon, it has hardly
a parallel on earth. Tho shores are surrounded
drawn out so thin by sheer starvation [hot (hey
are fast degenerating Into snakes. The place
Into a company for agricultural o purTx>scs°nmTcut
It up Into farms. Bhould this scheme succqod, the
noxt move will bo to float Pastor Jefferis as
mine, or a promising chloroform spring.
[?]
Ah Bln he grows our watercress
la streams that are Impure,
He rears our beans and cabbages.
He makes bad furniture ;
He waits on us with fish and fruit
And opi tun-flavoured tea.
But shall ho drive the Melbourne cab!
Ah no I It joust not be.
W e let him wallow In his filth
In holes (to say the least)
That would not give a shelter to
Another kind of beast;
We let him pilfer Christian pelt
At fraudulent fan-tan.
And wa»h our clothes (If not himself)
The cheerful Chinaman.
Through Melbourne, by and bye,
And la a cab that’s “ all alive "
It were not meet to die;
Why should we hurry on our fate
By sitting to the Mb ward of
A fragrant Chinaman I -
To put In dreary verse to* views
Expressed by Graham Berry-
Such work for Alfred's falling muse
Is suitable, yes, very!
While looking round for themes sublime,
Here's one a little newer-r
About toe Bondi sewer.
Or, better still, a ballad sweet
In tuneful terms explicit.
Explaining how we best could meet
Our terrible deficit.
[?] LIKE A-WAKE.
When he oomes here across the foam.
The print of his majestic shoo
Upon the sand, great Wales,
What thought will strike him first, now say I
Why this, of course-to rush away
And visit, in his Sandhurst home.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Rockhampton is the joyful possessor of
an editor caned M’Allrot.
CafFroy, the Great Barrier .criminal, once
touted wllfc'E clmms [n Franco. '
The Russian Czaro witch has taken to
oplleptic Another lunatic qualifying for a
Sir Robert. Hamilton, the new .Governor
of Tasmania, is conneoted by marriage with a
leading Taimantan family.
It is reported thft Town-Clerk Woolcott,
of Sydney, lias bebn offered *BOO to resign; If he
holds out he may get twice as much.
“ Lord’ Tennyson," it is c^jlod,'“ has
recited to ZZ2 oof self bursting guns. I
Lord hfinsdale says thero is “ nothing de-
moralising about the stage." True, there ia
nothing that oou)d demoralise his lordship.
The present Enniskillen de jurc v Jkh&
direct descendant of the Cromwellian lord, -is a
cowherd in pi service of tho Lord EnnlskUlen de
Demosthenes Palmer.is the name of tlio
Anti-Chinese B*c. at Cooktown (Q.) He Is, in all
human probability, a distant cousin of Dan
O’Connor.
An ex-Postniaster-General of an Austra-
Han among tho drunks at Sydney
Chao Pba Chulaloukorn, who does duty
for King in Siam, was christened in 1864. His
name when translated Is Chaos Pharaoh Chuck-
thchullotout
Thomas Julian has appeared in Melbourne
Insolvency Court. Evidently the “ Vag.” Is suf-
fering revtrec*. Peer into this item very closely
and you'll see the point.
Trinder - would rather run than make a
speech. In this respect he differs from J. C.
Ncild and Dan. O’Connor, Who would rather
11 spout" than “ sprint."
The Sydney Salvationist organ reports
that the gre*t Smith family Is rapidly being saved,
sin and the gall of Iniquity.
It came (jut (taring the recent Adams v. I
Coleridge trial, the reeult of which has just been
cabled, that Lord Chief Justice Cdleridge married
From Life (London) :
" I hear thetbne of the OoUaileriee rto* ku been boasting
iwotm aC. M. 0., and rtfuied it. Whei Itoinf
the decoration of the Michael and George'S! indeed aonk
Archer, tjie jockey,loft only from £lOO,OOO
to £120,0004 The sum devised to his Infant
daughter, who Is not altogether robust, will
amount to prSbably £50,000, with reversion to the
family. * ' . • *
One of gales’ misguided friends. is writ-
particular biography of his Highness. We are
inclined to think it must be edited by the cabman
who takes Wales out at night.
Mr. Chester,-late P.M. at Thursday
Island (Q.) who acted as Sir Thomas M’ll wraith’s
agent In hoisting the British flag In New Guinea.
Is getting hfinself very much, disliked at Cairns,
where he is now Police Magistrate.
Parkes, on the stump lately in the
N.S.W. provinces, was balking about tho land laws,
and said something about ’* deferred payment. ’
“Ah! yes,” fhriekod one of his auditors, "you
know all about that, old man.*^
Sir John - Robertson has.been examined by
the N,S.W. I toxicating Drink Commission. The
report of “Old Jack's” remarks concerning the
as the standard book of "Australian humour." V
Sir William Robinson, the S.A. Governor,
has received. a valuable decoration from Bat
Chulaloukorn,' King of Siam. We may mention
that the rest, of Chulalonkorn's name Is Phra
Sundstch Phra Paramindr Maha Phra Chula Chom
Klao Yu HuafYah 1
Henniker I Heaton is in it again. His
claim to bo fte originator of the ocean penny
postage racket has been publicly ridiculed by a
Mr. Wslklnshkw, who says tho notion was started
nothing new under the sun.
Mr. Juliap Thomas, “The Vagabond,”
who has just returned from Europe, passed
last week. We regret to hear
cerebral affection which' will necessitate his In-
dulging for a time in oomplcte rest
G. B. Studd, travelling for his health,
wasan interested spectator of the England r. Ans-
Studd are now engaged in. converting tho Chlneso
to Christianity; G. B. might tako advantage of
his visit to have a go at the aborigines.
It is cabled that, the “ Women of England’*
intend to presont the Queon with a Jubileo offer-
ing. Wo quit* believe it. The class of ladies—
God bless .’em!-who assume to represont the
whole ebx in this matter are always panting to
grovel bsforo something—fi o n a wtak-kr e;d Lord
to a dissipated tom-cat.
The latest .Appointment by John Young,
Mayor—Mr. John M’Elhone, jun., to be City Cor-
poration Cow Boy. without opposition. And Terry
M’Elhone, the milkman .begat Jack, aud Jack begat
the Corporation Cow Boy John, junior, and so on
_ r *e Edinburgh Exhibition was closed
gjjjj S'wat s rfnd”a e dV~uo i? o? GJaf^ il w^e
shown around. The public "took it out" of
Bertie later on by hooting him as ho drove
through streets. Disgust for the Heir Ap-
It is reported that soon after the Prinooss
Beatrice was bora her male German parent, wrote:
Little Beatrice is -an extremely attractive.
pretty, intelligent chlld-lndeed the rnoetamn.
|«ve had.- It is now hopedui?“e
.rain hah not degenerated, in which case the Bat-
P rov « <* humourist-it may
* fc iS r “ &lioioUB iy rumoured that Mr.
n, nd P ■ unt J • the - nrrears-of-fyuiglng-nro-
®teph ™ mado an awful blunderreoently.
St h they W^iUd l 0 H ° “• *** ° D lhem
-became unfixed, and oSm
foreman of U» J 6 *?* e Crown proaecutor and the
The wife of the once famous “ Sir Roger ”
Tichborno is now singing at a con cert,halt in
Aow York in order to keep tho pot boilina for
that corpulent and down-trodden wretch. This fa
n «* orig i n!j X ™ getting
old and ugly and awfully vulgar, so she was
dltoroed and shunted into a workhouse, and Sir
Reger married again.
„J he T Cootoinundra Herald reports that
Sir John Robertson and Bishop Barry are
SSSSSSUU^
h.J only «M«I PwUul Uonn
. Bt , ic,n 8 lirocomon, «n 4
have a i^n ßaPtiB lete iyor
The Dublin people gave poor Fred Archer
an immense reception when he made'his first
appearance on tho Currogh only.a fowdays before
his death. Iho Lord Lieutcnnnt, whose horse
never . Bft * ch6 “ r from the mob. but
the English journals misrepresented the facts and
turned the Archer furore into a “ loyal demonsfcm.
tion. Perhaps Freddie committed suicide in
shear dfaguit.
Mayor Ybung, of Sydney, has “ declined
to contest the constituency of Uthgow." John
[?]
has just got married, and, but for the fact that the
lovely woman who has been so fortunate as to
gain his undivided affections is widely known to
be the most amiablo-and peaceful of her adorable
sex, Tuk Bulletin would be inclined to remark
that Mayor Young has go! quite enough to con-
Mr. Bailee (tho Viotorian hot “member"
whodoeent believo in royalty, runs a whisky-
mill at Sandhurst. Thus a little Melbourne rag
apostrophises him " Verily, thero would be
such a trade the bar wore tho Prince of
Wales to visit sßdhuret as would atone for all
the scandal he has been mixed up in." This is 9.
looked. 0 * Grover'premote’s "he consSmptlon^of
Sir Salmon Wilson hah rotired from
Hughenden, the historic residence of old Benja-
min Beaconsfleld. Tho latest About Sir Salmon
mentions that he is negotiating for the purchase
of Holyrood Castle and trying to secure a burial
allotment In Westminster Abbey. BtK- that's
nothing. As member for Canterbury, Hcnnikcr
Heaton is exerting his looal influence, and making
arrangements to be buried along with Thomas
a'BeCkett.
Beecher, we read, is.still loetifring on
Hell. . He recently said that “any man\who be-
lieved'in the doctrine of eternal punlshnfcnt and
then got married and reproduced his species was a
monster." This seems about right, too; for,
-according to all the old theories, tho rising genera-
tion Is brought Into the-world expressly to play
euchre for Its infant soul with a demon .wbobaa
hod 6000 years' practice at tho game, and who is,
therefore, up to every movo on the board: -
Tho Brisbano Observer sums up the
story of the Koilawarra with brutal terseness
something after this fashion —“ The captain went
down with his ship ; fhe subordinate officers got
away safely and brought no i eomrn with them
L. L. Smith took advantage of his trip t»
} urr , u P 10 undergo a course of treatment from tho
best London tailors. Tho famous expanse ofahlrt
front has bran curtailed, the corsair collar is Ironed
mto an upright masher, and. generally speaking,
the Ybung Man's medical adviios turn Tout In a
condition of subdued, spiendonr.
peStol°B<S iD ® comprehenBivu ,leman <* op-
" y put “ tu “ w “‘
M. E. Dutton fa evidently a woman.
1 -'
Further oa wo read ‘ '■'%&¥
nectlon* by marriage of the Bennett family have
now been snfllcientlf aired through tho convenient
also grovellingly venture to auggest to the Ben-
nett family's solicitor that the malicious matter
quoted above is close upon the verge of a first-
class libel.
There has been considerable discussion
among scientists of late years a) to what the canto
of earthquakes is. Every »ava»t ltns a different
thoory. We have ono too. Somi of the old
philosophers held that the earth was a lingo
it is simply sick—sick of carrying mankind on its
and can manage to get somewhere whero we "'ill
be quiet—say the debtors'prison.
Up at Singleton (N.S;W\), when
lawful ways of money-getting. Anything
permissible. Recently a show was hold to wipo
tho mortgago from the marble brow of the local
waTa “Grnnd B Art Union." tho lint prize being
slash.valued at Ios,-It kmoiiAwUy that these
goodVdple shlarbc"' hin&Sxl in their good
work. If thoyworo to run a consultation on the
Champion Raoc. or start swindling tho tail wry
department as a steady job, they rn'ght faMtfew
Christianity and lucky bags. I
POLITICAL
POINTS
“No rent" in the Irish cloud;
Randolph Churchill may yet lead the
Radical*.
“ Rumonia " is the latest proposed nam e
for North Queensland.
Sir Henry Parkes i? on the brink of the
grave—the grave of Free trade.
“The local Minister for Defence says
Victoria f« ready for war.” With goats, wo sup
pose.
Parkes is touting for the political support
the old women* Udle *' Ho b** alre,ld l' secured
“ There isn't one man in the Parliament
.N.S.W.- Parliament is to meet on the 18th
January, and members are already brushing up
some new language for use on the occasion.
. A mock-trial wiys the leading entertain
meat at the Victorian Parliamentary picnic. Wit-
tioseos were sworn on Tn* Buixmx. They've
often sworn at It.
The Czar of Russia is said to be “off hia
chump.” In N.B.W. political circles, when they
want to say this about a man, they remark that
t sgsi: sisirss
asks a Victorian paper.- Doesn’t itf It keepe
open all night whenever it can.
! The TJ. ANp C. Jurnex, which is going to
Change the name of Noose South Wales, has at
for our
day night and Sunday, an
d we ° f En * lUh tntocir *
-.The thinks that Oppo.
sing 0u» advteabUity I jf esUWUhing homo *for
From "Wellington (N.Z.) comes the news
that the Opposition will show greater “bolltlcal
presume" **& YOar b o * l "*- I hi «- wa
druak, sit In the Speaker's chair, donee* on the
2Sdj'SU“w. op ' u ” PpT"’ ~
only fault that Mr. W. Sandford finds
convey a lot of volunteers to murder niggers and
slaughter a goat. There Is too much “good
Iron” here for that.
The president of the Geographical So-
ciety of Australasia bos received a communica-
the Queen hra teen'gmrouily plea*ed‘to < oonfM
on the society the title of “ Royah” Sir Howard
Strickland says this was the one thing needful to
make the exploration of New Guinea a trium-
phant.suoccss. v ' u;-
tho appointment of Mr. J. M. Mills as
one of tho Board to Inquire into the working of
the Publio Works’Department!* hardly to be com-
mended. seeing that Mr. Mills is understood to be
at present engaged on a heavy oontract for the very
department he Is to criticise, vis., the Praspaot
Reservoir, the oontract price for which Is some-
thing over £lOO,OOO, "
. Now that the Mongol poU-tAX lias been
suspended In the Northern Territory for the
benefit of the raUway-dontraetors; that country Is
a grand one for the little yellow men, and they
promise soon to overflow. One enterprising sgent
advoitlsea that he is willing to supply Queensland
g[|ttlcrS|Wlth 6000 Chin-so ocolies, thoroughly ao-
Proteotion, is wanted somowhore. Last
week a man at Mudgee iUW.| wrote to his
Sydney agonts to arrange a sale of wheat, and
the market being already'glutted
free Californian article. Whon. lt becomes im-
possible to dijposo of local-produoe itisevidont
that protection is wanted, and wanted badly.
In , the Viotorian Legislative Assembly
during the late sitting on the 9th Inst.,- when the
Chaffoy Brother* irrigation scheme Was under
discussion, Mr. Bent called-Mr. Dow “arogue
and a liar.’ The House should have roared
Chestnut! at.the bon. member with one voioe,
for-thls disgrace to the race of market-gardeners
has been calling all and sundry rogues and liars
from time immemorial.
Her Gracious,hat been
vfliioiietfrto naval and military officers " at home ”
aervlt**. In
The Gormans have annexed Choiseul,
Isaboe, and Bougainville, three of the largest
Islands of the Solomon group. They were all
discovered and named by Frenchmen, but if
France had annexed them. Borry and Griffith and
all their gang would have bobbed up serenely to
curse and yell. The same individual*, however,
don’t protest against German appropriation—in
fact, the average Australian politician pretends
when the saucr kraut crowd come
Our daily contemporaries have a good idea
of tho cost of a standing army. In the cablegrams
published In their Issues of December 18 their
r jadors arc informed that the German Reichstag
(Continued on Page 13.)


THE RETURN OF THE CRICKETING CONTINGENT.


CRICKETING CONTINGENT.




NTCJR.E: \rv
Lovre.ft. qtC?«sqE STREET
ewe c


Society
. 'fhb din be which ni to have delighted
the guosts at Government House, Sydney, on the
evening of the day upon which the Executive
Council decided to hang «lx %f the Mount
Bennie oonvicta was postponed as soon as the
decision was announced, Lady Caring ton thus
showing her shuddering Compassion for the eoaf
rfrtstrt/s—or, at least, a becoming dialntf InaUon to
dahCO ott a «->lid door immediately after six men
prevail among aristocrats is sufficiently proved by
the fact that cards arc out for soveral dances at
Potts Point on the 7th January, tho day fixed for
Noose South Wales' carnival of hanging. It will
be quite a festive oocaslon, a sort of second
Christina?.suvt-Qaeen'g Jubilee with the aspiring
dukes and duchesses of the coming colonial
■ Stomfidk-aCiio is in future to be called
" gastric neuralgia. 1 The old name sounds mean
and vulgar, and is too suggestive of cheap claret,
pie, salmon, unripe fruit, and reckless indulgence
in the ghastly cucumber, whereas the new one,
like " that blessed word Mesopotamia," has a fine
rolling sou that recommends it to the high*
' *ava the Gtßir'a lady contribu-
ttJF-, "14 Best treated with Bonn ter Irritants."
Ye*,-with bar coilnter irrjtantl
W* fito odridui ,td linotf on wHafc .pretext
Ixfd Caringtoa refuses his patronage to Mona.
Pouseard 1 The transparent official excuse—of
absence at Mom Vale—is explodod ; but as the
Governor gracei a fashionable concert at the
Pouitard Hall two nights previously and a
school "show-off" in an adjoining street on the
Ponssard night, eome other reason must be
assigned for refusing to the Violinist of European
eelebrity, who has five times plafed " ttf bota-
Hifind” tUfdro the tftidijm thAt patron-
AgB d'hich WO* ttxtanded to the mdslc-iiall per-
fttrmancß of thb lath dfefendint in 4 notorfous and
Sssagsais
Ignorauoe, or national prejudice, and can there-
fore only surmise that some secret antagonistic
influence guides tho “ wheels within wheels " of
viceregal court life. Roport says that some
classical chamber concerts are being organised
whereat Monsieur and Madame-Eousaard are to
sasNnsa 4usSs'^x°
idt the traditions Of d elrigiil&fl}- musical royal
it i$ admetinies difficult even for hia best
fiends to ognlse the ‘ ‘reprefiehtatl Vo Australian"
rheii he returns from Tiirrup. The. other day
fie of thb travelled (fang turned up in the Vlo-
orlan Assembly, where he need to sit with a
rumpled shirt and a dissipated hat, and from
rhich ho used to rush every few minutes when
ho usher w lspcred In his ear that an anguished
high collar that looked like a white-washed wail
fund a giraffe, and as there was a shindy on
►hen be entered be asked sadly, " What the wow
raa about.' 1 He eat down languidly and pre-
rrved hU stately detheAdour for. About five
Inutds. At tU tilld M that time another
ember had grown woary of him, so he rose and
nted.that the lisping wanderer was a miserable
aud. Then there was a fearful tearing sound as
P/SSSSffIEI
i-ond ended tho work of yoars, and of the pain-
LUy enquired cuitchaw of Yurrup not a vestige
iMorc title-craae! What does “B.L. 1 '
*nd for! wo asked ourselves On first seeing
& qafsteHbnjl JeHerl osjfi dcmcMi pte
ir, Mr. Percy Junes. We havo now learned
it the letters represent "Sydney LledertsfeL"
pat next 1 Probably that readers at the Free
arary will be F.L.'s, habUui •* of the Botanic
fkndy Midi's-
it doesn't" look well—even at Middle
j tbevir, f?ydriey~ fob i riurfibor df “ fouag
jes," accompanied by male companions, to run
ut tho bush-on Sunday afternoons in a style Of
sums highly suggestive of opera-bonffc.
} •
."here is in a small Victorian township a
'ng unwed preacher of tbs gospel named
ikercl. Mot h n rso? marriageable daughters down
4 man, described as a “ veteran of the
Bill may be a very glorious persrnsge, but
1 ;is many a bust-up domes tic establishment to
offleor in tho Sandhurst militia, who
hnsrd to malign Ids Queen when on sarade
■« tOT ibis crime irj Viotoria Is to
r the culprit from an eighty-ton gun, fetch
;i>ieV and bang him; .then give him six years
iry cmQnomont, witfiJJOO lashes every aiterfl
• every fashionable concert some hun-
•♦olks are asking this same conundrum—how
j'ppoplp does it take to cook that peculiar
>mh miscalled at a certain dally newspaper office
musical criticism 1 We ourselves have not solved
the riddle, albeit allowed nightly to view the
prooees at musical entertainments. The results,
however, are apparent to all, and Illustrate the
old adage concerning “ too many oooks."
Mr. Arthur Sebright, of London, has gone
a little too far, and society has oast him out. lie
the acquaintance of a girl of Id, the daughter of
Lady Scott, and foundthat she would one day own
428,000, he fell In love with her at once. When
she was 18, he “ proposed," and he kept on pro-
posing till she eras ftj, Then he travelled on the
broken-down, walling dodge, and, representing
that Up hardly knew where to get a dinner, he
nldved the jrming lad* to sJjfh wßat she thought
was aa expression of sympathy, hut which proved
to be a bill for £BOO. Next he threatened exposure,
and got bills for 43000 more, and In a few months
after this Miss Scott was haunted and driven
frantic by write and bankruptcy proceedings, and
she spent all her spare time in tears and misery,
finally Mr. Sebright told her that by signing some
document at a registry office she would get out of
hdr difficultly dnd tfhlle she Mdcled, In d ddtod,
terrified way that she was dolrirf soM Igrfal fidctls,
the got married to a man whose sole Assets were
Miss Seott fell back on her mother, and hdr mother
fell beck on Judge Butt of the Divorce Court, and
the Judge fell upon Sebright and threw him Into
the middle of next week, where he now lies, a
grovelling, bankrupt speotre of misery and dls-
pM*‘ s s •
In Melbourne a man has been fined £5
with 43 coatd for saying "Hello, my dear," to a
married woman. We mention this fact for a lot
pf reasons.
BBS: "HOW LONG WILL THE [?] TRAM BE, GUARDI”
[?]: " OH, USUAL LENGTH, MUM, TWO CARS AND A [?]."
Judg« Windeyer went to itiiglitnd da A
fellow-passenger of another aristocrat, tho Mar-
quis of Stafford. The latter will be a very lucky
man if he reaches England without finding him-
self under sentenoe of death or something.
" What is home without & mother V' Thi*
question Is being, continually asked In obituary
fersCs pflntbd In fH* 1 daily papers. But we have
never yet seen one asking Whdt home would bo
without a mother-in-law. Perhaps no man Who
has had his mother-in-law living with him has ex-
perienced what it Is to be without her ever after.
In the nature of things she survives him. £ut
that Is no reason why he should regard her with
such a fiendish hate. It is passing strange that.
while ho loves the daughter he should detest the
of her being. But there Is no logic In
Somebody in the B.M. He&aII), speaking
of the Kellawarra affair, says that such things go
to make .“ widows and orphans." Judging from
jumped and left the women to
widowers. # , .
A correspondent of the Aok suggests that
houj? & If*he^’afraid’of*being robbed we'cahtS
him of a first-cl ass plan wo hit upon lately. We
bada brase-plate put on our front and back doors
nailst." No burglar has ever visited us sinoe.
“ Simpson—Simkin.” Suoh aro the
names of the different parties to a marriage oere-
mony celebrated In Melbourne lately. It wae
hardly worth all that expense and trouble in
changing the ramee. The parson should have
mads a reduction in hit fee, anyhow.
THE CREATION OF WOMAN.
The Lord from Inorganic earth made man for toil
and strife,
lovely wife.
“ Raatz.. O be joyful, for unto us a child
Is born ! On , the wifelof Eugene Raats of
a daughter." This appeared as an advertisement
in the Melbourne Aox a short time ago. The
simple enthusiasm of it proves that the Infant
referred to Is tho first in that family. When it
oomes th the ninth or tenth thp announcement of
the faot will probably oommonco with “ Rough
Tbs announcement by her relatives in tho
Melbourne Ada of .the death of an old lady 82
years of age winds np with the line, At refit
at last.” Do they mean her tongue t It reads
very much as if they did. There Is -a
thankful sound about tho words which sdggests
that those who had them inserted would have
add, “For thl/relief much thanks'’—only
a sense of decorum stopped them. Poor old
party 1
Life seems til be rflpidly det-rodaing in
Valnß l*t*ir, judging tfy tho dumber of suicides
reported every week. A fit* ddys ago the body
of a young man was discovered on the besdh at
Brighton (Via) with lu throat out. A pocket-
book was found on the body. Tho following was
found written on tho fly-leaf: *' Forged cheque
and am going to commit suicide. Taken a bottle
ef chlorodyne without efflrot. Expect to bear-
rested by polloe. and Wish to die." It was subee-
'szs&sSß&inrirJns
of mrnMeU) payhls way. ifehdpe
with the caroe of life. What had he to look for?
to I With such a t *ndor conscience he could I
norer do taf good «to # bank manager or railway
contractor, or ev«Q *4 a caehler to the Young
Mena’ Christian Association. Why didn't he owe
If he had taken this simple and popular courae he
would now have been alive and happy and—well,
it was at the option of the other man to commit
suicide. People who oommit suicide have no
•avoir/aire anyhow.
A New Zealander touring the States re-
cently made the acquaintance or a Boston girl and
after a few days' scientific courtship married her
and took her to Niagara to spend the honeymoon.
The third morning after the wedding, however,
he got up early, took £lOOO of his wife’s money
and skipped. N.Z. is evidently looking up.
The tale is told about the Prinoess of
Wales and an English provincial Mayor, at a
Mansion House ball. The Mayor solicited the
honour of a ’’kerdrill," and the Prinoeas said,
Some of my children are only Just recovering
from the measles and you might take lht*u” «I
should be proud to take anything from such an
august source,’’ mnrmurel tho Mayor. This la
mentioned aia hint,for our dudes. If they have
the good lucfclo attend a Government House kick-
“P when Lady Caring On has a cold, tho proper
thing win be to request ” the honour of catching
your ladyship’s Influenza.”
-That noble guinea-pig, tho Duke of Man
cheater, Is touring In India with his duchess. The
Marquis of Ilartlngton is not accompanying them.
Therein oonalats the pith of this paragraph.
piey were chatting over several things—
!f**7 fttakg-Tn a hotel in Bourkeatrect.
How is It. said one, “ that tho climate is so
much cooler in Melbourne during the summer
than In ti» S dthkf AmftriflWn Capitals t 'fhg
difference in latitude doesn't altogether atcoiffif
for it." “ Ahi but you must remember." ropllid
the other, with a faoe as solemn 09 a •phlox, ■" we
An obituary advertisement in the Mel-
bourne Aox winds up with the statement that the
deceased “was known to many as on honest,
hard-working, and sober man." Good faith, what
then 1 Was that any reason why he shouldn’t
die 1 Them were strong men before Agommem-
non. There were sober men before RochaU. The
relatives of this deceased person seem to think
they hare good grounds for an action against
Death for taking him off because be happened to
be honest, hard-working, and sobor. All the
more reason, this, in our opinion, why ho should
die. Ufa could have held very little fun for him,
Sir Willknl J, tho Victorian-
manufacUred baronet, is descended frcm an an-
cestor of that name, who was lottled in the
manor of Groin toe, somewhere in Somerset, Intbe
reign of Queen Elizabeth—according to Buxkn'l
Baronetage. It is well to know this ; otherwise
there was danger of our mistaking him for an
offlinoot of tns Howards, Guelphs, Hapsburgs, or
a llne/U descendant of th« Monttnorflnelss or
Chevalier Bayard, whom Sir Bill/, the hatcher's
son, In every respect so strongly resem ble*. We
must confess to a disappointment on finding thaf
this illustrious line extended no further back than
the days of Queen Bess. Why stop there I We
quite expected to find that a gentleman of the
pre-Adamite period Was the first progenitor of
I this pillar of the Empire, whose golden eloquence
won him his title. We can hardly refrain from
I dropping a tear over the Inveterate plebelanlsm
I of thd bwonet'a late father, whose blue blood did
ntrt pMBSt hit ftdltfwlng the humble calling of
a retailer of dead rfiest, And who was
never known to mention bis EUsabtfhlSn ances<
tor. Ilowevor, 81r Pooh Bah has now atoned
for that little oversight.
A Bedouin woman upon finding that Eng-
lishwomen wore stays, exclaimed in a tone that
was at onos sympathetic and indignant: “What
bad, Wicfced men your husbands must be to fasten
yon up in that way t'
“ ” Munro is now in Melbourne
anxiously a* siting the arrival of her alleged nephew
IXjtH Dudley, When last e66n by ocfr reporter
the muddled Mttffo wrfs dahofng a hornpipe on
her beat bonnet. Thl* is fl Mssfoty HexW,
.In the first paroxysms of widowhood! Mrs.
Hodgson, of Melbourne, gave an order for aa en-
larged ooloured photo of the doooasod Mr. H. It
was duly turned out. There were tho brown hair,
the blue eyes, the expressive niouth, and the neck-
home Mrs. Hodgson repudiated It as ‘ not a*blt
like/ and the photographer took ont a summons.
TbS cafe lee' fellow had forgotten to fill in a pair
of wings and a h aid.
• Among the prettiest features of the first
England r. Australia match at Mel bourne were thoeo
of Mrs. Bpoflbrth. Ths “ Demon’s Bride " is a pale.
Petite, graceful, brown-haired fairy, who looked
refreshingly cool in a dainty white costume and
puasoL Excess of happineis appears to be put*
ting fisah on Spofforth and rounding off the de-
mon lac corner*.
In a Sydney daily a porsona] "ad:” ran
thualy : " Baby, Have arrivod.” Weareaalngle
man, but w# believe “has " ia the right word to
Lady Loch, tho other day, visited a
Cathollo scholastic establishment In Richmond
her arrival the boys’ eadet
band played the National Anthem. When she
proceeded to the girls' department these young
women sang the Nation*! Anthem. When her
ladyship took her departure the girls, the boys,
and the eadet band combined in one mighty
effort to impress tho National Anthem on their
unhappy visitor. Lady Loch has a good memory
recognise the air again when [tho
"All my white friends are invited to the
ball,” is ths notice of a Queensland publican. It
ia Uvea by blaokfelknva..
Mr. Rupert Clarke, the future baronet,
doncherknow, met Miss Camming at a Melbourne
•ku lut w«*s U 1 »• oM.
young oouple will honeymoon In furrin porta for
two years, provldod the moon holda out
£lO,OOO is to be ‘‘jobbed” away in im-
proving Melbourne Town Han, against the Royal
BsrUs’a hypothetical visit Atoyer Cato. t£
moving spirit in this noble entorprtae,
be In the building line himself, doncherknow and
offers to supervise the alterations free, gratis, and
for nothing. That shows the advsnUge of having
experts In a town oyunoU. If next year's Merer
is connected with ths wins trade, hV-iitl more
the erection of free whisky-fountains In Melton..,c
streets and will kindly undertake to sample the
liquor. A soft-goods man, on the other hand, will
bo for draping the Town Hall In white satin, and
vQiuntaoring hi* services in the selection of the
stuff If an undertaker wears the chain of office
—but the thought is too dreadful. f
“ Truth is infinite and we cannot clasp it
In ou* finite arms,” says a man with a red head
Ws onoe knew a girl called “ Truth.”
Matrimonii] ongtgemcnUi of long, dm-
tionareno longer considered proper foret. As
“• ““ Proposes, and Is accepted, the
lady s friends set to work tolmake immediate x,,
parntlons for the wedding. pro ‘
were going'to tho opera. He was'
quite ready, whLe she was still at her toilet: * Vt
5* ar : . h 9 ,hontod Impatiently from the
1 !«»« nearly dressed 1"
res, came back the response ; “ l'vo on'v irot
to take a few more things off."
A girl, aged twelve, has been sentenced at
pretty pair of earrings, and tie juvenile assassin
her with a dinner-knife,
Sf gaol marrUgeablB age when
At Normanton, N.”Q., Miss May Smith
L o“ifS°? VBrtd l S n Kuinca ® damages from Major
* Smith because he smacked her on the head. The


OVER EIGHTY THOUSAND
(82,560 OQPIES) *
OF THE BULLETIN PRINTCO LAST WEE!.
•major pleaded as extenuating circumstances that'
•Mar had used fearful language and thrashed him
the verandah, and then, seemingly, peaco was for j
the moment restored, for when tho curtain rise*
again wo find tlio' lady asking the gallant major
for a drink of water. This he appears to hare
given her in a bucket. Just as If sho were an Ignor-
ant horse or some other brute beast, and May
straightway pounded him with tho bucket.
Next, eke pushod -him with a clothes-prop and
walloped him some more, and, lastly, she finished
«p again with the umbrella wont and
Scon#: flrand-stand, Yabb&viUo races, up
North. Conversation botween four or five
Headers of the rerg be* set.- Mrs B. : “How
•oraelly plain those Miss C.'t are 1 It Is really
'quite o. misfortune, for a girt to be so ugly as the
oldest one It." “ Yes, poor that
Is It not I"’ Mrs. B. ; " Yea, they are
but bo Is just ordered to Blanktown, and I hear
he applied for the removal to get a*ay from her.
He'll never marry her—they Bay he was drunk
(hardly blame him If he never docs. Poor girl. It's
bad enough to be ai ugly as sho Is, but her mother
Ss even a worse infliction.” (Mrs. C. and her
•vkbthrr haU been nlUing era tig one neat behind
atul hate heartl cetrg iconU Mrs. C. (who has
a particularly clear and penetrating voice) to hor
daughter: "My doar, some of thu people In
front know all our affaire as we do our-
luarry you after all ; he has applied for
the move to got away
wtact! my dear. You were a child at tho time It
Ihnppeaed. And when the Injured wire appeared
Miss W actually shot him. He borrowed the
money frem your juipatopaythe doctor. I really
•don't know whether it Isn't a plain
Uktfa fish. ... As for Mrs. O , tho wholo
town rings with the scandal about her and that
'lanky person In the hank. Well, well, perhape
It's better to be ngly and have a droidful mother
-as aa iofilctlon than to be" (herq four seats
suddenly became vacant.) *
Lord Colin Campbell's divorca case has
come to a lame and Impotent conclusion, thejary
tiimsolf is a fascinating dog, with Caprlcornlan
morals, but ho was found not guilty, for want of
sufficient proof. I-ady Campbell also got the
benefit of a similar verdict after long hesitation,
eminent member of Ihe " Wcdssley jtong," who
other three swore hard and furiously. Among
them was the Duke of Marlborough, who nodoubt
gave hts testimony with tho Injured dignity of a
man who had nover kicked a broken-hearted wife
In his life: —•- V
The Princess of Wales, we read, still sel-
dom sworves from her favourite close fitting
bonneu and hats, and ovldently has but slight
favour for wido spreading, heavy-topped head-
gear, however much it may be In vogue. Ultra-
artdatlc people havo sometimes dared to wish that
the “Princess coiffure" lookod a trlflo set
Important subject is best understood by tho fair
A reputedly wealthy now-clium, who two
years ago wooed and won tho daughter of one of
the most prominent of Victorian colonists, has now
skipped with - a Melbourne barmaid, loavlng behind
wife, whose very weddlng presenta will bo auc-
Tliere is a little commotion in English
aristocratic circles just now. A young and
lovely i>coress with a statesman husband and
three charming children, turned up at a ball
suffering from a rush of fire-water to the legs, and
Insisted on dancing. She had a hiccup that would
hove racked tho her
behind, and her utterance was as dislocated as a
snake beneath a ton of bricks, but sho Insisted on
staylbg, and gyrated In a beery hop until she was
carried out. Then she was Bhot Into a carriage
fearful head on her in tbo morning and wonder
how it was that the peerage was going to the
dogs. # .
Subscriptions are invited from tho benevo-
lent In aid of Alice Cornwall, tho friendless ocean
tho Koilawsura. ° The unhappy little girl, whore
position Is additionally saddened by tho fact that
sho has lost an oye, is an hM butono
in Far Northern The kUnd-hearted
In a certain up-country township, tho
other day, the local “ banker " got about us tight
as thoy make 'em In that district and rodo up and
through lnto the kitchen and chased the
terrified help all ovortlio place, and ended up by
being pitched from his horse Into And
CSrcat indignation has been expressed at
Wellington (N.E.) at tho conduct of the Minister
1 largo
while many i>aasongere
the samo kind may be seen any day on the Sydney
suburban tramways-policemen, transit commis-
sioners, .1 hoc i/enun ornttr, take up a largo pro-
„ .rtion of tho dock'(resting in the care, and politely
allow .paying passengers to scratch their backs
a ralnst tho end boarding—on foot.
For pure, unadulterated twaddle, a letter
!• sigioi '• Victoria," in a Melbourne bally, surely
. takes the oak;. The letter suggests that as a be-
fitting way of celebrating tho Queen's Jubilee, the
whole cadol force of Victoria—about 3000 boys—
should be soot to England to tako part In reviews,
fc C . “ Victoria "-says: "It s oasy to prophesy
the wave* of enthusiasm that would spread over
England on the publication of a telegram from our
Premier—* Victoria send* 3000 of her children to
honour the great Queen Mother.”’ We find It
much easier to prophesy the green seas of ridicule
that would moisten the inspired ldlet who would
attempt to execute such a plan. "Victoria”
wadoSfdeeper in bunkum as the lotter proceeds,
other good qualidle*, " by her taienUd oonduot of
her national duties ’.’—which was nows to us—
goes on to speak of the eflbot the display Would
have on the average Britisher, and concludes by
asking the question, "Would not the foreign am-
bassadors, plenipotentiaries. Sec., open tholr
eye* I” Whose eyes I The cadet*’ eyes, the
"average Britisher's " eye*, or " the ambassadors',
plenipotentiaries’, &o.'s " eyeet If the former, we
foreign ambassadors, pteslpoUnUartßOte.*" tired
to open 3000 cadets’ eyes If the hours appointed
for the experiment were anything between G a.in.
and 8 a.m., even if oyster knives were employed,
unless bribery In the shape of candy were per-
mitted. If the question refers to “ the foreign
ambassadors', plenipotentiaries', &a'eown optics,
we answer unreservedly—Yes. Not only would
they open tholr eyes, but those organs wonld pro-
bably stand several Inches from their respective
owners’ hbads In their effort "to.real iso the exist-
ence ef such a community of ludaUcs as the carry-
ing out of " Victoria’s" suggestion would prove
the Victorian people to be. The writer of that
lotter shouldn’t bo allowed off the chain.
A young Sydney girl whom wo will oall
Tottlo has had rather a time of it lately. Some-
where back In 'B3 she fell In love with and be-
and swore eternal "love.” One day, however.
Tottie was surprised to bear that her " ownest"
had flown from his native land without apprising
her of his Intention. Tottlo possessed a faithful
nature-refused two offers of connubial bliss-and
remained true to her Jack, whose whereabouts
still remained en cachetic. Somewhere In 'B5 Jack
turned up again from o’er the tea, without any
watertight reason for his flight, and ooolly took
up his wooing where he had left it olt Things
reinstated themselves and it was ail as before.
Jack got another bUlst In Sydney, and a wedding
wa* on the tapit. Tottie was blissfully preparing
for love in a villa, and the marriage-bells were
almost ringing when Jack, without consulting
Tottie. or in anyway preparing Us bride-eleot for
the shock, again made himself scarce, and in Just
as mysterious , a manner, and has not been heard
“ What may happen to a man in Aus-
tralia." The overseer of a Laoblsn run, who had
Just married a charming Bydney girl, took Us
wife up to the station to live, and as the brido was
something of a horsewoman," hubby used to ‘ loc
her go with him on bis tsars. One evening on the
way home they oaUed at a boundary-rider's hut,
and the skipper of that little paradise, who was
anxious to Ingratiate himself with the boss, in-
vited them to stay for tea (damper, aalt-harse,
Jt&) The bride, who, after the example of all
Sydney girls, desired to make herself agreeable,
readily accepted the Invitation, and prevallod on
her worse half Udo Ukewire. The meal weutoo
well for some time, the host doing all possible.to
make Us guests comfortable, but suddenly in the
middle of an interesting tete-a-tete the counte-
nance of a dissipated 'possum (the boundary-
rider’s only pet) made it* appearance through a
hole In the celling, and its owner saluted the
company with a load “ qpmk I" The bride, who
had never before seen a ‘potsum. called on
heaven and her hubby to protect her, gave a
piercing shriek, and fell fainting, on tho floor.
The boundary-rider took the whole thing aa an
immense Joke, and had to stick a wedge of damper
down his throat to stay a hilarious outburst.
Tho overseer’s sense of humour, however, differed
from the boundary-rider's, so without waiting to
pick up hi* wife, he landed, the humorist ons
In the dexter eye. A pitched battle then took
place, and half an hour after, when It was over,
all that remained of tho once-fsetive boundary-
rider might have been- carried away on a dust-
What might have'been a nice, brcoay,
blood-clotting tragedy »u sadly, bungled and
ended In an Inglorious H.M. Coart fizzle, the
other day, at Hawera (N.Z.) A married couple
on a station and a young squatter of breezy morals
were the principals In the affair. The woman
accused the squatter, who was also her own and
her husband's employer, of being a second calf-
bound edition of Charlie Dllke. Her husband,
who Is a flary Celt frpm Lochaber with the usual
Mao to his frenbnamo, on hearing the particulars
swore a feud against his master there and then,
and seizing a loaded rifle declared he would
ceased rabbit, s'help ms bob but I will.” There-
upon he marched off and fired severed consocutivo
volleys at the first man be met, which proved,
however, on closer Inspection, to be hU master’s
brothor. Apologising handsome!yfor hi* mistake,
he told the brother (whom ho had fortunately
missed) to Inform his master that ho was on his
trail and that he had only two days to livo. On
hearing this the young squatter took a trip to the
Hot Lake district, where, notwithstanding the
eruptive and oarthquaky state of the locality, he
Judged he would be safer than at home till the
other crater's dander had subsided. The brother,
however, put
ttiroatening to pot a squatter—a mere bagatelle
not worth Mac ing a fuss about
TO HEBE.
(Bt a UrjITKTVL Swill.)
I do not love you for your eyes, so sweetly, clearly
The reaeomwhy I love you, dear. Just why I lovo
Is, that, when I hlcooughed “Marryme," you
said, “ Oh. really ! no t"
The marriage of Mr. AlbetVFisher with
Miss Mort'.ey, younger daughter of Mr. W.
John's. Athfleld. on'the 15th last. Mr. Montsguo
Y ,unger presided at the organ. The church was
gaily decorated for the ocosalon, \and was filled
with a fashionable auflleooj. including nearly a
hundred invited guest a The pretty bride looked
hsr best as sho entorod tho church leaning on her
father's arm and followed by seven
Mrs. Beattie, Wynyard Square, was composed of
white Bengalees silk-over Hltfe *k(rt, fcijfillfullr
draped with lace, caught with bouquets of heather, |
wore cream crape trim mod with Bengalese Bilk, '
worn by the guests. The brido's travelling dtoss
was of navy blue nun’s veiling. with hat to match.
The honeymoon took piece at Mbunt Victoria. |
In Sydney* recently, a man fell in love
with, another man's wife. Concealment of hla
He decided the lady. So he waited
French novel. His airectlon was reciprocated and
a new deal in honeymoons was arranged and
oarrled fled—on tho airy' pinions of
comedy. Hubby had cUo found a fresh charmer,
and was meditating a departure from the laws ot
tho Decalogue on his own account. 80 when he
arrived and found a deserted hearth he did not
curse the destroyer but simply howled for toy and
took his girl to the play that very same nigh.!
[?]
A Correspondent In tho Far North Mods os the
following quaint essay;—“Any one who has
worked In the humid malaria-ladon air of the
Northern troploal ooast scrubs knows the periodical
feeling of languor and depression that overcomes
fever, with the aoollmatleed old hand derangement
o the Uvor, the traditional oure for which among
the bullock-punohers and cedar-choppers who In-
habit the widely scattered lordly palaoes of gal-
vanised Iron that gleam through the umbrageous
foliage of these romantio retreats Is a regular spree,
othorwiao known mo" howling tear." So muoh in
favour Is this system of recuperation with some of
the old hands that (t might possibly be imagined
by evil-disposed persons that some of the said old
hands accused their livers of derangement oc-
casionally when those much abused organs were
In very fair order. Howsoever this may be, a
camp, of which 1 was member, having disposed of
a booming raft of cedar, resolved In solemn con-
clave that the liver of the community was out of
order and that to avoid a very bad attuckOf fever,
aa adjournment to the nearest shanty tot physio
was Imperatively necessary. .Upon this resolution
being onahlmously passed, the camp was Incon-
tinently abandoned to the Chinese cook, much
"to tho dismay of that oelestlal worthy who
loudly expressed his disgust In pigeon Eng*
ICah, and his apprehension of being converted
into nutriment for some wandortng myall. ' The
only oonsolation the almond-oyed one received
was a proposition from one that ho be Instantly
shot to save him from fear of death and an urgent
request from another to go to Hell and stop his
yabber. fPJeaae don't U* tlie revised version
aM savour. For. Instance, do you think that If
oven a pareon, while yoking up bullocks, received
from one of those dodle quadrupeds a gentle ad-
pcolod the bark off, I ray do you think that OvOh
a parson would And balm for bis WOary sottl. by
ejaculating Shcol 1 Not much. Ho Would re-
quire the full ute of the eaplrato with the kid of
any adjectives that happened to be lylhg around
loose at the time, to okptcto himsolf under those
blissful clrcomst&nces. And It Is probable that
hia rctnembranco even with these artificial aids
would be regarded gtfth serene indlflbrebco, not
to say contempt, by the offending tuilitiUi. If the
animal in question was a Notth Queensland work-
ing bullock, f*r the profane vocabulary of a
Northern bullock-puncbor is like tho nectar bis
soul loveth. calculated to take the skin off any-
thing sensitive. Nor is the proficiency In profanity
an art, as some might think, to be lightly acquired
In a day. It requires years of patKnc* And
reverential etudy before the neophyte oan attain
the summit from which he can pohr forth that
•onorous flood in WH Us fliTenoy and UraWouh
Why should the word hell' be taborcd to all
exoopt parsons ? They tell W* glibly onough that
the majority of Us atw going at a hand gallop
down tho broad road that leadeUi to destnfotfoh,
and that they and their flock havo a tnbhopoly of
HoaVen. Surely they don’t irhnL a monopoly of
hell, too T) However, to return to our lost sheep,
the cedar-ooppcTO and bullockies. Taking to tho
boats with joy and alacrity, and making the soli-
tude around hideous with songs, they pull gaily
down the river, celling at two other camps on tho
way, and tho prooesslon Is soon swelled by othor
votaries of Bacchus with disordered livers,
arriving at the shanty IS In number, that number
being greatly augmented by midnight. I was
then quietly initiated Into tho Northern Queens-
land cure for malarial fever. No hard and
fast rule was laid down as to the description or
quality of liquor one drank. The oho thing neces-
sary was quantity, and the favourite liquor Port
Mackayyum, with a slight euetfeton oMobaicoo in
IU By midnight tho pbysfehad somewhat obscured
my vision and I sought the retirement -of a bunk,
but no repose-h allowed during the opertUon of
the euro. The cekt part Of the plogramme con-
sisted of being dragged Out o? the bunk to assist at
the obsequhn of a dead (drunk) man by torchlight.
The victim Was stripped to the skin, painted all
over with ripe pawpaw (a fruit, I may mention to
and consistency of pretty soft custard), and then
Interred In a shallow grave dug in front bf tho
shanty, with only his face above ground. More
dead-drunk'haring been discovered in a bunk, a
well grown calf was caught and mado fast by a
suggested it be made fast to his neck, and a con-
siderable number were much aggrieved because
this proposition was not carried out. Everything
being secured, the calf was started and calf and
over me at this stage, and I wokp in the piorning
with an unaccountable boadachoapd neryousnciy.
Therefore J cupip to the ponplualop that the much-
vaupted c W re bOd been tried And found wanting. '
apd that it was not what it professed to bo in the I
matter.of restoring ton? t« tfco »y B tom."-3vsii-
[?]
have voted £| .*>!>,iTOO anmWly for three year* a*
fllUy efficient pence footing." Why, the littjo
lirltinh army coats about 15 millions a year, not to
Bjdncy 1 ’ war office," which stand X.B. \V. in the
reapectable total of a quarter of a million.
If free and fiery political writing of ver-
dict-and-coats tendencies Is deeidoraied, West
Johh Horgan, a candidate for tho local Council, hi
Just now a conspicuous contributor to this depart-
his election address was that whoreln he erro- '
n'ously described some administrators of Justice
as "mulish* wrong-headed and corrupt buffoons.' 1
This pretty woll covered tho whole ttroUnd. but
Mr. Horgan had to verdict of £lOO and
The proposal to pension off Peter Lolor,
has-been aholved for
fas'every night he occupies the Chain, and os tho
Eureka hero has held the billet for a good mftn#
years, several independent GoYurntnoht aUphorlej a
Insinuated that tbbrt Whs no call for tho hat to
noma rotted. Ihe argument Is unanswerable in a
House which rofused a grant to tljo family of Mr.
Hugh M'Coll. Gillies' suggestion was supported
mainly by men who would give any amount of
public money to get a disciplinarian, like Peter,
out of the way. .
In a lucid moment Premier Gillies sat on
an insane proposed to send 1000 little VifcttJriJJl
urchins to England tvs rbprttbnt'aiives of the
“ military st rength " of the colony. Worthy G oorge
Ooppln protested tbit the loyal demonstration
would only oost £30,000, of which tho publlo would
Joyfully subscribe gM.OOO •• to show the people of
England how the boys of .the colonies aro being
trained." Sublime faith in " Our Boys "is one of
ths no.t amiable characteristics of venerable
George. But why go to the exjenso of sending
home 1000 cadets t A contingent of EO Cirtfulljr*
selected larrikins would show 'em hoW wo train
the young idea in this part of tho world.
A monslot pttblio ideeting to protest
against tho deportation of Frtnch ftcgutlste* l 3
the Now Hebrides wAs held Id Melbourne a little
while babk. When the doors opened, a lank, dls-
tempotbd mongrel that had been walUng Impa-
tiently stole in and hid' undor a form ; half-an-
hour later a gentleman of ne-gVectod appearance
under the influence of half-and-half alio dropped-
In and remained where he fell; then came two
Germans and a Chow who took up front soots I
four other doleful citlzons and an Itsliaj
appeared later, and then the meeting wt>nl ob»
It gave Franco "Uank" for flooding oUlJbrighk
southern shores with loathsomo criminals, and thft
AMU* aflbrdqtl the spirited And unanimous ebb-
foronco a bait column notice.
Tho VictvVfeh froVfc'mment aio going in
fora piece of political benevolence by issuing
Nwtriy 7 hundred ° f P*‘r!l*meDt-
privilege,'and the seedy, broken-down, tattered,
booze-stricken aspect of many- of them suggest!
that a soup-kitchen tloket would alto be h b!M>
lug- „ One gonttomnu put ib his nppMfcatton by
letter, and the eternal phste-bchW bhdlb bb sebt
care of the govoibor of the Mnd, Us te/ls Boihb k
lltUe sehtente on bfs head. »)pfe or tVi lnort art
In IttntUib aSylVlms ; b fbW arq bllliard-iiarklng ih
lhtHklh Salmons, several art kbovelllfe greg i£
back-slum hotels, and all told about, 36 per bent,
have gonb to the dogs. PuMsmtmt hixd demo-
rtllgbd thm.
'f here is at least ono good patriot and true
loyalist in Victoria, and he is going to drive hfa
sword into tho carcase of Bailee who traduced
Wales, and when he has flnfthbd hlf
work the rote of telft, Wll ipTut upwards
to thfc Who ethereal arch above. He
h&a Written a letter to tho Mtmbcr for Sandhurst,
in e men to meet him
dispiriting hour of 5 am., ond.fight with plstotoy
sabres, or any ether hcucrablo wenpbh, With h
view to being left rrothb field a mhngled, dOWn-
trodden borpSb. BtUftss will easily recognise thb
slrthgkr, bectiusa ho will wear n folt bht with rWI
. fekthort r and if tho llttfc phblfcsh dobs pot go W
got hftnsclf corpstftl h‘o la to He hohto- Whipped oh
the steps'Of Pari iH in';‘.it Home. So tax Halles has
nohhoetpl'ed th'o invitation,
jh tai|3ta£ § Ms*
dog-th-the'-mangor attitude with referencoto the
proposed Victorian Exhibition, and we rise to
aooohd him. If Victoria feels that the worm la
preying on hor damsged cheek, and that on Exhi-
bition WUI help her ih any way. lot her hart it bjf
~U means, Tho peb.h of W.B.W. mity thlhk',l
thodeeprtcessoeof thb'rrorn-atalk Intellects that
sas 1 sr» s
married to ballet girls, but they don t moan to
grudge their neighbours tho pleasure of seeing
these parties any more than they would grudge
* °°™' or a bunion, or any other hind of
reliable tce-bnrometew “An Austmlian ' must
suxtly fancy that his fbltpWooiohlaU reiembfc thb
small boV who howls with thb small
boy hekl Boot has got the thedslrt.
Twd I'nJtfectiMists hftvg labt woek boon
added t» thUltetttf N.B.W, members. Mr Btev«“
son being returned for W&Uombl, and Mr. Colls
for Yass Plains. This is a presage of tho fate of
Kreelrado candidates at the general election. At
Wollombi, the Freetrader, Mr. Vivian, who bas
carefully nursed the constituency for years past,
L^ UC,! “ l m^ st of **{•
disparage his oupohbnt, but still believe tha*re ha
bearish by him /is about equal to defeat In n’sroll
log oontest with tho FoneUc Hablgle. At Vasa
Plains. Colon do Close was killed by Frcotrude
Mr. Colls can hardlu be considered a inlghtur
opponent than. Mr. L. R Heydon, • yot-Mr. Cloto
Ttae*Freo?r stewwcthVthTinfer^L
Which is wise. • U 0" uclol - CH *.


w
.1
scsc
Ctou (uth>g.
?.??/
Bent Binding.
ampUStT of conit ruction
and Light Draught.
ssss
L«w Cut
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
X-
SPLENDID\STOCK OF SPRING GOODS.
| Fashionable Garmenta to Order at Moderate Prioea.
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS.
WHAT TO' GIVE I THERE 8 THE RUB.
THE VERY THING.
lb Auboyhono costs but 30b. Bad la » Joy for e
Which,
The Autophone la a wonderful little Instrument
..... - ,tgh* lees than three peui *
sized parlor organ, and K
abeelute precision and
three pounds has
porfeefc
. . j three
pai tt ef moot difficult music. On
‘ p, without Instruction,
present consists of ever
waiUee, polkas, marchoa, popular song*, 4
U beet adapted to the kind of muaiot ** ‘
organ beet, but also has wonderful p
uaio which suite an
rful power in ex*,
lively pieces. UT It is pitched far H*
voice, ana nas a little sard holder for conrenlonee
In singing. It is entirely well adapted for oouatry
churches, Sunday schools, the family circle, and
cheaper than that which Is made for any organetto.
The Autophone Is like every other good thing, the
longer you have it the better you like it, and as
new music is being published every week It has an
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Three tunes given in with each instrument.
Additional tunes p
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand :
ORIENTAL GOLD CO„ No. 12 POMEROY
CHAMBERS, CASTLERKAGII-ST., SYDNEY.
OB A WATCH.
The Elgin National Watch Co.'s Watches are
he best Jn the world. Read this t—
"Elgin National Watch Co., Chloago,
.
ither celebrated
“JAMES C. WATBON.
Observatory, Ann A
aprember each and every 4wtch manufactured
by The Elgin Watch ~
with compensating *
inferior movement
i pounds •
by reducing the pries of
I wen't seU yon a debased r
The Elgin Company does not make end _
The Elgin Watch Company states. Ore
v mew white metal, manufactured and
James, patent pinion, 7 flno jewels,
e £3 0 0
one Watch in hunting case ... £3 10 0
Stem-winding (Keyless) Elgin N. W,
Oq.'s compensating-balance, patent-
lover, open crystal face. In solid
silver dust-band case, with 11 fln«
ruby jewels, pitont pfttion, 4to. ... £3 « 0
Same Watth, in huntlnfpease 3 14 0
' ‘ 'lessen perb gol£ lever watch mag-
quWtt jewelled movenjent. No better
‘ ■leutorid ... ■ ... £ie o o
e hare net sfraoe bare for Huthar detaned
atioos. Wo ean, howeves, offer dlrer-caood
has at ascending prices up to the flnete In the
OR FOR A FEW SHILLINGS
ORIENTAL GO&D JEWELLERY.
ORIENTAL!
drapkVl
I'soidsssss£S , |'
tiaits cm bM tea fiosd fa till Mbit nrtfc ky I
verting !i We fsWUwy of tk* afat ecjHtft/d*-' I
?he Oriental Gold Co v ' |
12 POMEROY CfIAMfiERS
CASTLBR.EAGH-5W., Sydney, has
lsigt MMlgaesati of thsse Wrtly ge*t, vtiak iisy
•ell it a frsotlca ef th* rat of Stella* tRU TWilhry.
Mo oi cia detect tte llffbsacs. Hend’fdr a
a fa atoftktM-
loulac samples, sU cf QrUottl Bell-
Brooches,Bs.; Jewelled (Parisian
; BfMUantr) Brooch, 7». 6d. fOenffe
ATber^,-7». Bd.j Padr. Earrings,
• Pflittn,*!., Jewelled, 7e. 6eL; Lockett
sWew*»ired, lOs.f Lafclee* Afoerta
OW, JP.0.0. payable Oriental Ooid*
.Cw.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD 0
15 POMEROY CHAMBER:,
CABTLEREAGH STREI
j Psreeh sent anywhere by port.
GREAT NOTIONAL FIELD TRIAL OF
REAPERS AND BINDERS.
SUPREMACY OF THE BUCKEYE.
Tho following nrtlclo, taken from the Melbourne
Attar;*, of December 10, 1886, U specially recom-
mended to farmer* and all persona interested In
agrloaltural pursuit*. It la not alone of ex-
ceptional In tercet as an incontestable proof of the
Immense superiority of the
"BUCKEYE" REAPER AND BINDER,
but It goes to show how very possible it Is for the
moot disinterested judges to make mistakes. The
"Buckeye" is an American machlno, and has no
friands in Australia outside those who swoor by it
for its own intrtnalo worth and the enormous ad-
vantages it possesses over all other machines for
ECONOMY AMD PRACTICAL UTILITY.
The “ Buckeye ” toek the premier position in
this great struggle with ease, winning tho Grand
National Sold Modal against two competitors, in
whoso company on the showground It was not
• even considered worthy of a irtacc, by the highly
qualified judges who made, the awards, and but
for tho protest which was) than entered by the
representatives of the “Buckcyo" the public
would not have been, furnished with this luldi-
-Uonal assistance in dooiding for themselves tho
aalaUve merits of
THEORY AND PRACTICE.
In the art of judging.
The Auot/B says .-—The field trial of reapers and.
binder* in connection with the late National Show
at Sheppartoa was held on Tuesday, the 14th in-
stant, on Mr. Guthrie's farm, about two miles
from Shepparton. Owing to pressure of harvest
work, crops in all direction being ripe, tho at-
tendance of farmer* did not exceed 160,' but great
interest was taken in tho proceedings. • As at the
late show tho Judges placed the Hornsby Machine
first, M'Cormlck second, and tho Woods third,
tho “ Buckeye " representative disliked being loft
out In tho cold, and demanded a Hold trial as pro-
vided by the rule*, tho M'Cormlok also sharing in
tho proteet; *o the prizes were held over pending
the Hold trial. The crop Was ripe wheat, and the
could show very low cutting, and the jolting over
the hard clod* was tolerably severe on hones.
fixed for the trial, but as tho " Buckeye " was tho
only machine then ready, a delay was caused by
the Hornsby and M'Cormlck export* giving their
machines a preliminary run in the adjoining block
part).' Tho fire Judges gave great attention to
their duties and wore ably soconded by the tub-
cqpmittee by thu society
acre* 'woro allotted to each madhlne, and they
finished in the following orderßuckeyo."
lb lOmln; Hornsby, ih 19 min; M'Cormlok
Tirtfimin. The two lattoc machines were drawn
ty threo horses each, while two lighter horses
worked the "Buokoye" binder with equal ease.
Tho decision of the judge* was based tho
following scale of points t
The judges (Me»»r*. A. Klnkoid. H. Wllkin*on,
J. Orlov*. J. M'lnlyre, and J. M’Guiansss) thus
awarded the “llnckcyo" the first prise, with the
maximum number of points; Hornsby second,
with 43 | and M'Cormlck third wRh 3J, adding
that the work performed wm the best thoy had
ever seen, and their deeltlon wag eheerod by the
farmer* present.
:r|THK FUTURE or . NBW GUINEA.
JhThe hUtorian of tho future, to whose let it
f may fall to write up New Guinea, for pie nsws-
* paper* ef hi* day, will be apt to compile u rather
comical account of It if left to his own devises.
I The fact* oonnectod with tho story of that
island are so scattered and discon-
nected up to date, that of tar the lapse of, o\y,
ranother hundred yea** ho will (begin by wondor
■,log what the mischief Australia wanted with it
; anyhow ; and why—afterjetting possession of a
sfieoe of IS—her whole army of land speculators
dsnrburbaa building allotments before tho Imperial
ißlaw clutched it as a refuge for another consign-
ment of titled Torunoddlee, who through
l the English divorce court* and had to be pro-
Prided for eamewhere at tho coet of a oredulons
People. If aocldent reveal* to him tho fact that
wa* first annexed by Queensland as a political
I 'lodge; that Germany afterward* took a* much
ranleftwa* onoe mere annexed with groat pomp
'hjy Groat Britain, and Australia together, to show
aghat they wore perfeetiy satisfied with the
; that many hundreds of live* were
ie acrlflced and many thousands of pound* spent
h aver a series of year* in keeping up this tinpot
kdaroe of Joint property owner* ; and that. In tho
t md. It was left for Mr. Edward Stanhope to balk
{ lawn on the agreement and back Out of it al
1 Ugethor bocause Australia declined to find moiioy
Kndugh to support some hundred* of English In-
to misgovern, it, and bleed her at the
win panto on the threshold of his work.
7 fcuoriansaw that—he will grasp the notion that'
**o has to unravel a tangled web of humbug and
deceit, which will tax both mental and physical
’.(l ifllsult, his dlssapolntments many, but ho- will
iuu sustainod through all to a satisfactory Urmina-
! b on by that wonderful eUxfrt Clausen’s Chain-
eigne Lager Beer. wHcb fe evin now universally
tVonounood to be the purest and most Invigorat-
ing beverage for the brain or body-wenoLgervant
irv toll that has ovor been browod ot hoard of.
-will still be tho favorite driuk tn tpp-a
a* it l» new tmd always has hebn elneo tt*
[?]: “[?]
THEY WANT IT TURNED OFF. AT WILE. KERF [?]"
SOMETHIN’S NEW, IMPORTANT, AND
• VALUABLEi
AN EGG PRESERVER.
Eggs kept fret* all the year round, preserved
In pcrfoct condition. Retaining all their original
properties to a degree which has stood the clooost
and severest tests by experts and others. Every
egg kept perfect through the warm summer
months, and perfectly preserved, at a oost of only
2d. per dozen. Buy eggs when plenty and cho&p,
and preserve them by the only preservative yet
discovered that wHI keop eggs in perfect cewdi-
tlon. They can bo used for all purposes equal to
newly laid eggs. Send for clrculas. Butcher,
Fehon, and Co., solo agents, m, Pltt-strect,
Sydney.*
Certainly on. of the note mcMMful OM» Hotels, la nml
SiKisJaWK’ikKisifis sidE
A SnteteM LuMbeon Is provkM frornla to S. which li
gatrocW hr_th» an i fa thU
Siraap-FAMUira IN N.aw.— Wool, Which is the
staple products*® of the eonntry, is according to
the latent statistics, being tsnt away In buyer
quantities than ever, showing that shoop-farming
has considerable attractions. Formerly the pur-
suit was attended with a certain amount of risk,
and the great distance from the Station that a
doctor could be found necessarily increased tbo
danger when lUneas secured. The-inhroduction of
Freeman’s Original Chlorodyne has dispelled this
alarm, as the sheep-farmers know this invaluable
ruwpdy te be a oompendlons modidau chest in
iteelf, and a specific for all the diseases lndd.ntal
to their following. Insist open having “ Free-
man's” only. Trade mark, an elephant.—obtain-
able from all chemists and store Ijeepeen.
" Vfam«d g £-ni*ht» , "'or*'' Krforn * will h*?p lo Imp the
health and strvfigtii of the rate whui. fartti I*
JduKtud.s «sa.h“'ZuHJ&j?: tetolj*u»*tai
■yaiem. a poriflor to west off th« bad blood, and a sura
r^w r ia U “^ SSVTSA at*t£e
THOSE TRAMS AGAIN'.
Sir N 70 <>e SMt^ r '
aonieb*dr trainjAca on bis toef, or tie eendnctor
id too sarly or too fresh. If the ear is crowded be
hi ooligod to hang on the platform and gtt
tie horrible suspicion that somebody is picking
his pocket. Thera is a oertaln class of ciUscns
whe are Tory disagreeable feUdw-paasangers qn a
street car. They are a loud-talking, grinning,
bo la Lemon lot. one of whom will not hesitate Bo
bellow fa anecdote of how he got the best of a
brother dealer in the matter of 30 cases of erer-
alls otot a stranger's shoulders, and in segard to
pushing and jostling those ruffians are parMsylarly
violent and forward. The only method of aelf-
v indication is to tramp on their toes. They are
nearly aH martys at the oora and bunion shrine,
and when Lhisjiimishment is properly administered
they will have so voioe for anything but dismal
groans during the rest of the Journey. Tke ladies
often distinguish themselves in the nuisance line.
If. when standing up and hanging on to the
straps, an unfortunate eitiren chances to bump
against them they favor him with a ferocious
tell - my - big - brother • and - have - you - licked "
glance, making no allowance for the awkwardness
of hl» position. Some road the papers and tickle
yoar ribe with their elbows, or suddenly choko
' W i lh _iS“ ghu ' r “ faS ow> of the funny
adivss&sements of SuramerfloM and Company, the
K*At Juvenile truth tiers,
2S« and 237. Pitt street wte are showing start-
ling Knot In hoys* school suite, at 7a M. and
So. lid. Pretty drill washing sailor suite, Uus
eollasu and euflb, all sizes. 3a lid. lor big bora
and youths, taibir’s-made suits .from 21*. to JJo.
I am, 31r, your Usotfser-in-artne,
LAU« AUAUf.
g?glrg!yjL J "Sa"»f¥ »~th walsa Sal.
g^asssuatstSrjrsussa
Oiokoashes. Dug*, and all etiber Insoote
destroyed by MlWhelTs laser* powdoo. ‘ 3d., la
la »A Rtgney, HI Olng-street.


3S.
ill
m
f.r
Ht
§ it 5
IlfWlSlIii:
SIR
n*«
ISliill-
iU
is«
tflillflf
! III! | ;i | j il!!f lii f ff 11 1
in?
If HIM
M». W. H. Jennings, Contractor.
i arrtred in thl
PogbofHceT SMUT Lte“ha started b
own acepunt, and before he was 20 .
larding, found him entering upon contracts whic*
- ' • elaborate calculation and great
Hfe work from the date of start
assa’iSP wass?*;
- ~ Jsey, lighthouses and Government
it the present moment ho has ti
groat con tracts In hand-Hcj MnJe.tj-'s Thee
St. Patriot* College. Manly, and Messrs. Da>
Jaaeaatfd Oa
d £l7OO, and n
n stands better with
nploying the
5i 7^t. h ruiic « >“'j.
ras: , «aSSMS
TOtod k> th. Jol»«T.
.TSL fir?. SSK2Jto.“
) soul Etabllseeraent on Aus-
tral® qul alt tin cachet essentlcllcment iraagaia
Son Proprh'taire. qul a plus do vlngt ana d’oxpcri-
onco dans lea principaloa maisona do Paris, n'o
s bean" planted right in the heart of
Sydney something that will become a boon to
epicures and all people ef epicurean tastes. Tluit
something la a high-class french Restaurant, con.
ducted on the best lines, only to be gained from a
| think you gourmlU and epicures,. eight courses
with all accessories nicely served by polite and
| attentive waiter* lu the cosiest of cosy rooms,
handsomely furnished throughout, nicely carpotcd,,
furniture simply palatial, all for. one
half-crown. Smile ye Bohemians, for lioro can a
thy choicest of viands, tut., cooked in purely
f cooking and enjoy porfect quiet"
. There are nineteen rooms, all
above stylo, -
table <C hi
atre what can be.moro enjoyable
of frlonds or family party, sooted
together here, enjoying all tho comfort and
luxury of a strictly first-class French restaurant.
being in clone proximity to the lead-
baring a rrchrrckt .dinnoc. there. Paris
Rouse Is equal to any on tho Continent or Amorlcn_
as well as Amerloan experience—having been
the/ at the Mouopolo in New York, and the
IWace Hotel In San Francisco, both being the
largest hotels in the world, and noted for sumptu.
Imported expressly for the PsJace. Everything
the kitchen Is as bright and clean
as ponslblo. Rows of bright shining copper k
Important Gold Mining Proposal,
k very Important gold-mining proposal, concen
ovored In N.B.W.—or probably Australia-hi
proposed to bo formed
ing of a threo aero bio
claim, at Fairfield. BWB
Adeline Company’s claim, which i
property
| . . vbich is l „ .
fabulous richness, tho claim now being valued
£96,000, scow-ding to the purchasing flgur
ruling at the By<h>ey Exchange. Mr. W.'Niclii
las, F.Q.& states that the three great got
ings made by tho prospectors w.a from the stone
got within afew yiu>ds of tho boundary bt this
Adellne-rosd claim. Into which tho run of gold
tlrlkee direct. This gold-bearing formation la at
least COft- in width, and is said to assay up to
hundreds of ounces to tb<
crushed 360 tons
io tailings showed
. f 2or. Sdwts to tho
gold formation is proved
•’ -"Ugli-nd It Is presumed to carry right
nc-lioad Company’s claim, ami
first SOft. IS estimated at AHi.OOO
probable that ibis gold-bearing
aohlm
I that is required t
ro|«i <1 to g< t a bailer) i
crushing operations
lubecribtag publia on fi
public pal
appjicutkm,
1 6000 shores paid i
6 Pltt-sttest, Sydney.*
rjl H K A T B B
ENORMOUS SUCCESS ENORMOUS SUCCESS.
THE GREAT HOLIDAY ATTRACTION .
THE GREAT HOLIDAY ATTRACTION.
EVERY EVENING.
Terminating In time for Suburban 'Buses, Trains,
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, anil Musgrove's
Sydney Christmas Card,
THE GORGEOUS PANTOMIME,
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY,
or Harlequin Mother Gooco aad the Seven
Champion*.
Price* as usual.
JOE. BROWN, Manager.
Alhambra music hall
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager ... ... Mr. Frank Smith
Businessand Stage Manager... Mr. Edwin Bmrr.
THIS CHRISTMAS SEASON.
h SPECTATORS c
o good things provided by tl
EVERY SUNDAY EVBNINO,
A Grand
SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT, ai
APOLLO HALL,
Kldman’e-bulldlng*, Market-street.
Open dally, from 2 to 5 and 7 to 10.
THE ONLY PERFECT MODEL of the
GREAT ASTRONOMICAL. MECHANICAL a
APOSTOLIC CLOCK OF BTRABBURG
Grand PROCESSION OF
THE DENIAL Or PETER.
THE STEALTHY VISIT OK BATAN.
6 feet wide, being
marvellous and interesting Exhibition ever pro
• ‘ to the publio of Sydney.
C. JAMESON, Proprietor.
WM. OIKFETT, Agent.
fpHURSDAY ISLAND SCHOOL OF ARTS.
Stage; also
rjIHE RICK ARDS-LKETK COMPANY.
Hsrry Rickard*. A UHt 1 -ilia's Universal Ka-
. supported by bla powerful Company of 12
London Specialty Artist* will op*a Lauareston
Academy oi’ Music, Monday, Deo. *7; Melbourne,
Ballarat, Sandhurst, to follow. Academy of
isle, Latnncestou, TO LET, from Jon. To. Ad-
nee Agent, Mr. Sydney Hall; General Manager,
\ Philip Btuart. .
fJIKNDERS
tor PUBLIO WORKS
TENDERS are Invited for the following PLBLIC
der* are opened, and the c ...
tenderer will be announood. If possible, before the
n Colony of S Lo- I Tuesday,
reel ion of ffflees for Locomo-
Kvelelgh P * T ’
Supply of Steel-wire Rope, North I Tuesday,
WILMAM J
I LYNE.
MAP SHOWING PASTORAL lIOLDINOS.
V of N ? w Sonth Wa,M showing the
V division of Pastoral Holdings on a scale of
16 miles to an lnclfi.i now ready for Issue, andean
be obtained at the Salo of Maps Branch, BurtieyocJ
General's Office, Gresham-street, Sydnoy. Price
20s. per copy.
(Signed) P. F. ADAM*.
Surveyor-General's Office.
W.
O N
PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND
BTREKT, SYDNEY.
■oond°lSnd *** K *Wt Tl>n .
.t lowest possible prioea.’


THE MEBOAHHHE BANK 0? STDHET
(ESTABLISHED 1888).
Paid-up Capital, £300,000. lUsorro Fund, £153,000
The Ilon. air John Hay, K.C.M.Q., Chairmen,
Hon. Hn *' “
i. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
me a Cahtl, Esq.
u Philip Gldley Kins, M.L.C.
iasaS* Bank of
Fltrarl flourl Flour!
LION FLOURMILLS
rjTH> CLIMAX OF PH KPH CTIOP
MONTSERRAT
LIMB FRUIT JUIOK SAOCB.
BOLD EVERYWHERE.
T. JONES & CO.,
PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMISTS
[By Examination, London),
Medicink, Pzkkuhxby, Toilet Artious, and
Druggists Sundries of.the beet quality
supplied at the lowest prices.
63 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY;
CROWN BTREKT TRAM TERMINUS, BURREY
HILLS; and SUVA, FIJI.
Prescription* Accurately Dispensed.
ENTLEMEN'S CLOTHES REPAIRED AND
\JT CLEANED
190 CASTLEREAOH STREET
Near Market-street.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tio-
Dolorkux, Acuino Pains in the Limbs,
Pack, or Hxab.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of -
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC FILLS
will give Instant Relief and Cure
Tho Australian Remedy,
necessary I In Bottles, la,
change la diet
B<L, sa, and 16a
1 his Lotion Is tho Beet and Safest Remedy;
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous U.
Umonlals from those who have recovered through
Admitted by tho Medical
ON.
at
tras tes-
ft A. BOSK, Pharmaoßctlcal Ohamlst,
081 Oearse-stroet only.
mO WINEGROWERS AND OTHBB&
i G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
Rum,' Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS,
Hogsheads, Quarter-casks, Spirit Regs, from 1
gallons and upwards.
COOPERAGE.
*7 KENT STREET, and IT4 SUSSEX STREET,
S'llil
OK
OK
II
Ss
THE
QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS, N. AND a
DIVISION.
Cairn* and Hcrberion JiaUtcay—Section »■
mENDERS ere Invited lor the Construction of
A the Second Section of the Cairns md Horber-
ton Railway—ln length fifteen miles twenty chain*
—ln accordance with Plena, Sections, Drawing*,
General Condition*, and Specification*, which may
be *oon at the Office* of the Chief Engineer,
Calm* and Townsville, and at the Office of the
Commlftloner for Railways,. Crisbene, on and
after MONDAY, the lfith day of November,
1888, where also forma of Tender and other Infor-
mation tan be obtained. .—«>
Tenders, endorrod ’’ Tender for Contraction of
Second Section of Cairn* and Herbcrton RaOr
be deposited
mlstioncr for Railways, not later than Four o’clook
i. on FRIDAY, tl
4 day of January, 1
Brisbane, Bth October, 1880.
|
JOHN NOAKE,
TOBACOONIST.
STICKS fros Ethe principal manufactory In
general publioat prices suitable toaU.
446 & 320 GEORGE STREET,
and
1E» AJLIL, mall,
33 Hunter-street, Sydney.
~BEDDING? BEDOINGI JEDDING ! ’
The same old saying—You Can’t Brat Lawlxr a.
THERE YOU CAN GET a Hair Mattreas,
no better BOX BPIUNG MATTRESS
ever made than thoao mado by LAWLER.
It is literally a mass of spiral springs, heavily
webbed, and thoroughly upholstered In best curled
' Ur.
Not*.—No wire mattress ever made aflbrds
*uoh refreshing rest or can be depended upon- a*
ian the Box Spring Mattress turned out at
808 GEORGE BTREE~
KAPOK, soft a* Elder Down, at “ LAWLER a 1
dobrated ‘ ‘ Samarang ’’-grown
No second quality of Kapox at ** Liwunt’a.”
Java Kapox stocked.
No second quality o p
Flock and Fibre Mattresses, ready for dally
delivery, at Lawler's.
Wire MaUressee, all slice, by all makers.
* beet long-cut straw three
save money, and, In th<
.. by buying at **
LAWLER’S 808 Beorgß-street, Sydney.
RUSTON .PROCTOR & CO.’S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES.
“TRIUMPH" THRASHING MACHINES.
Simon’s Romm Ststrm or Flour Milljno.
Sole Agents i
E. C. ELLIOTT. & CO.,
S4J KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
irraWPEMBLL’S
EXTRA BUPKRFINI
PLOU ®I
N»W PROC*BB MaCUINKBY,
The PRICE Js VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
‘ GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FL OU R M
UJTY
'4
UPPORT Colonial Industry I But y.
•t 8. ROSKKTJLA 1.. 1 Little
ot-rket. Bast (opposite Colonial Banv
Manufacturer of fool Mcorachaui
Pipes, wholosalo and retail. .
MAGIC LANTERNDEPOf
AMUSEMENT FOR OLD AND YOUNG.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
718 George-street, Haymarket.
MAGIC LANTERNS, Including 12 slides.
iiba'iSSa ’ ”■ “a. l "*
rns ore carefully packed in boxes, and i
o any p*rt of the colonics.
W YORK NOVELTY CO. have In at
indpereonal requisites!
e proprietor has'
’cjSJx^loweUery,
1 buy direct from the
SSSSSMi.'”
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.
stock of tricks, puzzles,
*n Australia, to “ "
largest
*^ f r~ apparatus,
stage entertainments
rbnry W.KI.M, 10l
lit*. 7*°° acre. i«ppu«l up.: —„ m
i p h.«j. In SHimr. N»Ui th.
SE ,V. n OEK “OVELT-y. 0 0
718 GzoaOK-BTUBT Hinusrw
a L HDTOEIK3OB M 00,
Fkw people are aware of the alarming preralenc
Kidney and Liver eepecjallyamcjtgtheee
on good authority that fully ooedudf the death
this country are either directly or Indirectly
reault of Kidney or Liter dleeaae of eome eort
god foothold before anything U done to dlalodge
Dropsy, drawl, DlabeUi, Brlfhfl Dleeaae, Incon-
tinence, Debility, Catarrh of The Bladder, Albu-
nenurla, *«., are nczr the many forma of theee
diseases. Most of theae are very difficult to cure,
Ur»vel. Dl»b«l«f, ud U 1 ol Uml
It cure* Biliousness, Headache, Jaundloe, Urea
and Stomach troubles, Dyspepsia, Constipation, and
Debility, Female Weaknesses and Exoeeeca.
".Xtje thoroughly^reliable!, highly rjwra
USE IT AT ONCE.
Sold by off DruffgUU and Dtaltrt in Paint
Hospital, Asylum, or Old Feople’i
.the bitters gratuitously, upor
the Agent*, accompanied by a
of the (Jospel, oertfiylng that
a certificate crt'akUnUter
BELL'S BITTERS
MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND fit AUSTRALIA.
BUTCHEB, FEHON 4 CO., SYDNEY
Hew South WalM and Queensland,
The New Furniture and Carpet
Warehouse
Jones, Lawson Bros, A Co.
ECONOMIO AST FURNITURE
LESS THAU ENGLISH PBICII
EIQHT-TEET EXTENSION TABLES,
with three spar* learaa, In ,
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
DINING ROOK*.
A| (be Exceed! ngly Low Price of *S lis.
Jones, Lawson Bros., and Co.,
&
CAPSic
pitfEY
HILLY'S
HOUSE & CATTLE BAZAAR
106 PITT STREET, and 140 CABTLERKAGH
STREET.
Branch Establishment: 68 Hunter Street.
W. GARLING
(PROPRIETOR),
Auctioneer 4 Beueral live Stock Agent
fF'SHSiSfiSH “ ‘“"""v.
andbuj Sale Yard
■ales are. held of r—
x* disposed of privately
a*".
High-c
•ran uj»u«i in juiyawnjr ana oj aucuon. Uuai
■ connections with the principal stud an<
Harding horses and cattle, personally attended to."
Best facilities for landing and shipping stock
» noe (including marine risk) effected on lira
rate* for which can be obtained on appiica-
MASON BROTHERS,
v ‘ LIMITED, 4 7
203 to 200 Kont-Btreot,
Sydney,
•*wwl»a
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
OHN WALKER Md SONS'
OW Highland Whlaky.
• q ORIN and 00.’8
Cognac.
T. GAYEN’S
Sohnappe and Genova.
A. MELVIN and 80N8 1
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
MIST’S SYDMT MIHASIUM,
At rear of tha
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE BTRKET.
TNBTBUOTION glTen every day in Boxing.
JL GymnasUca, Wrestling, Fonda*, Ac.
U FOLEY,
Manager and Instructor.
•ppiytt
rjVTE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES;
M PITT-STREET, and 538 GEORGE-STRKET.
Pald-np Capital *1,000.000
BtmrrotanA ... 876,000
The Bank haa Agent* In all the principal cl tie*
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
iand CANADA and can offer special facilities tor
dealing In Bullion, BUla of Exchango, Commercial
•id Travellers' Letter* of Credit.
Draft* Issued and Bills collected on most favour-
sfcte tarns, at rate* which can be ascertained on
N. F. QIRLIN, Aotlng-Manager.
HIOH-OUASS PHOTOORAPHY.
Messrs. CHARLEMONT & Co.
BBG to thank their numerous clients for th*
_ liberal patronage shown to them.
PHOTOGRAPHS receive the highest
id are acknowledged to be beautiful and
Inspection Is Invited to tbe choice 00l-
Portraiture now on exhibition In the
leading to their Studios In the Royal
Prinoess of Wales, Prince Imperial, -Ao., Ac., will
personally photograph each sitter.
Messrs. C. and Co. respectfully ask that ladle*
desirous of sitting should make appointment* in
the esrly part of the day.
grosvenoFgalleries,
Royal Arcade.
O M. B I L B Y
(late of the Detective Ferae),
Mvate Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Offlco,
11 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
SbJllSd to
£ass i2f-^ssir
SA ,V 3. SML
[« h in * position to oondoct all inquiries with elation
«W«ert aocrtwr, and to faithful!# and
I7CREM
QWeJj
, IAKQi- BOTTLES" OF WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS


RAWVASELICTE.
B
TT.ORSK RUGS. Pack Saddle*, Horse Cllppm,
XI Collar Check end Berge, 40 and 44 Inch**:
Largo assortment of Buggy Hamm, Ladle* 1 and
Gen tl am on's Saddle*. Spur*, and aU kind* Of
Saddler*' Ironmongery, tea.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS, AND SADDLER*
IRONMONGERS,
125 YORK ST., SYDNEY.
C. H. BMITH & Sol>r?
Manufacturers and Importers
HATS and CAPS,
302 8 T R BBT,
8 Po Sg j| Hn^Ur-itr— t.
HOLE SALE
HOTUM
SrOf wort&.Kurrst-ifui Eukine
Cxia* omCm
ss.
t"‘ ■■■■pgyrTa
SINGER
ana Os.’i.
Bicycles
Tricycles
Selling off ChMP
-JOHIDAHIS,
883 PITT BTRKBT, BYDNKY.
UCENSLANO
uaeunErtMi
ASTHMA, BRQNCHITI
cou
t
ATKINSON'S
PERFUMERY
EN6LIBH
;» ,
„.J,§S£X
SKi^'ra.sSßsawß
s^sSi
rm
ekssk
*S«s>
■i
ECORNILLON Sc ca, Win* and Spirit
• Merohante, 33 Bridok btrkxt, Sydney,
Hat* on Sale-
Port, Ac.
The unequalled A.V.H. Pin, Stfr, Sto.
r THE NKW SOUTH WALKS PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, 4100,000.
' * " SEVEN PER CENT oa
Tffi£ P S,°S-
CENT, on inm&from 41 to 450 In the Savings Bank
Bnuwh, Par»W« on demand. OOoe*, i Park-gt.
i, V, WARHKAM, Itouctc.
w* Inrlto Inspection of our LARUE and WELL-ASSORTED BTOCK of *ll •'rim
Furniture, Bedsteads, Crockery, Glassware, E. P.
Ware, Ironmongery,
O-HUSTSKAX, ffUENIBHIN-O DBAPUBT.
r 1
GREAT
REDUCTIONS
BEST WOVE WIRE
MATTRESSES.
DOUBLE FOUR-POST BRASS-MOUNTED BEDSTEADS, WITH EXTENDING
FOOTRAIL, £2 6a.
r our revised 78-poge Illustrated House Furnishing Guide.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 George street, Sydney
(Nm the Royal Hotel).
:
AM at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
lIUH
«WI 1,111
pn wn
iiu«
in
unnuviii
J. SULLIVAN’S,
BrSflSS°®L Imwmd
Hein Gott, dot ain’t a man, und tunnerrettar,
you preak my gloss, too. Veil, it's too pad;
but I got it Insured In de
Mutual Plate Hass Insurance Co,
of Australasia, Limited,
the largest In Australasia.
John J. Wood, Eeq. (Bec. Hudson Broa, Lim.)
Wynn Roberts, Momiger.
Plate Glass Fronts, Mirrors, &o, of all
descriptions, oovorod against risk of breakage.,
—"it current rates.
Monument
to Granite, Marble, mad Fr»»tOM,
, P«to.»dE3sSf’toSS&oo«*m
t, wnnruMtDiiii B nmwr. <
HEALTH IS WEALTH.
Sim *»D Bkxix HiiTMK. •
!Ss;ttSsSfiS £ H^sreass
JMiMTT, 3eoaj, and death, PrtmUture Old Ace, auiaed ly
OTer-ezertlun of the brain. or orer-todulccDC*. Ka-Jt tu
oootalae cm Booth'* treatment. B*. * bo*, or tlx bo. cm to
£lOO Reward!
KjS»£frK|2Ehj
m the direction* an (trlctlr complied with. The
Tecetitble, and nerer fall to (We eaUafactioi
JOHN 0. WEST «fe 00.,
66 Market-street Sydney, N.S.W.
Bent Prepaid by poet on receipt la. per box in (taapa
West’s World’s Wonder,
0B FAMILY LINIMENT.
i a WEST & (XX, Sou PftOPKIETOBX,
nr, CHICAGO mU
TORONTO,
)RAD,II, NKWTON, ft LAMB.
FURNITURK i
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
enow rooms «&d manufactory
SPRING ud.C'OONNKLL STREETS.
PIANOFORTK.
•otrnd. strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brilliant
Bradley, Newton, a
•J3AGATELLK BOARDS, Portable, rarieoe
" * ileee. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O'Con
ENTWOOD FURNITURE.
Assortment, Just opened, many quite
FKICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Btools, Desks, Ho. Bradley,
ton, and Lamb.
INI NO TABLES,
ALNXT THI.K.-VOl'K I-■ IXI N(; TABLES
/IlTf——
T T with two flaps, strongly made,
SIDEBOARDS ot
designs and various dimes
—is. In OAK, MAHOGANY,
WALNUT, ASH, and CEDAR,
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
WALL-MIRRORS mid BRACKETS, novelties
la PI Ufa and Velvets, and In all Woods,
from Bs. 6d. each.
.jjjMMANT MIRRORS, richly
Dolours. Bradley, Not
T\ RAWING ROOM GABI-
IASSUSSt**-*
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
FuKtuTunn Wmaocmoa,
Importers of High-art
Furnlturs, '
O'Connell and Bpring Btrestn
* latest
.RAWING-ROOM FURNITURE. -
fashion, ROSEWOOD and
D
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now on
▼lew In our Showrooma A visit of inspection Is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and i.«mr,
Manufacturers, Spring and O'Connell streets.
w.
"DEDOTKADS, - all dew'
_I3 Nickel-plated and Black
aad Brae*. Great yarlety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
Importer*,
o*Cepn«U and Bprlpgfetrcete.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and T.AMU
CIPKING MATTRASBBJ
O Woven Wire, bet
make ; also, Spiral Spring*
.-jaw, Prloe, from Us. Moh.
BRAD LIT i NHWTON u| LAMB,


“The Bulletin” Christmas Tree.
