

The Bulletin
GREATER THAN THAT OF ANY WEEKLY IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE.
CAiUTIO 3iT TO TUT
STIC.
ithas J ethe introduction of UDOLPHO WOLFE’S SCHIEDAM AROMATIC SCHNAPPS,
ecorae ’ through its w »nderful me licinal merits, the most largely consumed spirit in this
therefore is not surprising that it has been imitated and counterfeited
Mftwi ers should use the greatest caution or they will hive a sparious aid cheaper article
on them as the genuine Udolpho Wolfe’s Schnapps.
® UTiniu mum mum urn ui
t 250 PITT STREET.
|J * Xec * deposits received at best Current Rates, 6 per cent, being allowed for moneys at Call.
36 b
Us ines»
°f this Society has increased fourfold in two years. Shareholders receive 14 per cent, per annum dividend,
J AMES A. TOED, Manager.
Pi
r
BOOT PALACE,
GEORGE AND MARKET STREETS.
btiok e "^ ar gest, Cheapest, and Best-selected Stock of BOOTS and SHOES to be found in any house in Australia.
a^ili es Quality Fashionable Boots for Ladies and Gentlemen, cheaper than ever previously reached. Householders, heads of
° Stock °f Boots larger than any other house in Australasia, and from ss. to 6s. in the £ cheaper.
Election of the quality and comparison of the prices is specially invited.
2a: XT 3iT TEBS ’ S SOOT S-^S-A-OS,
(THE ONLY ESTABLISHMENT OF THE KIND IN THE COLONIES),
GEORGE AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Public are requested to note that John Hunter has nineteen branch establishments, of which particulars will be given
in a future issue.
jN ll( " Iiee of its hav-
. ° Ur knowledge
h lra^a tions of the
oft y are u •
tv eing P aimeci
Vf 6 Ul>iio V fraudu-
Piw Undersigned
of. tr
0 pay a sum
I’°ONDS on the
*N ' W, of a „ v
s ° offending,
V AL Or * co.
iOBERTSON’S SCOTCH WHISKY.
QtfftCQTCH
pr
**DE
Roberts
DUNDEE
am
THE ABOVE CELEBRATED WHISKY
/> be obtained from all respectable Hotel and Storekeeper
Jiroughout the Colony and Wholesale 03XT3-i"ssr fro«>
MESSRS. ALLT & CO.,
cauttonx rixcs. stxsst


ASKE.FOR COLONIAL-MADE
Wire
PROOF
$
PROOF
N
Netting!
BRAND.
Cheaper than Imported.
MANUFACTURED &BY
JOHN LYSAGHT, Limtd.,
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SYDNEY.
MoLEAN BBOS., BIGG ft CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGKE STREET, SYBNEY.
V v
•'A'
o
VJ
o
%
I RONMONGERS
x
<r>
vi
O
<fc
SPECIALITIES i
Davis’ Sewing Maehine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
GAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &C„ &c.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 and 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
FLEMING’S
RELIABLE
BUGGIES
FIRST GRADE
STYLE,
QUALITY,
and
nmsH.
Dm by All the
&e«iSas Ctttwau.
H.
k;
•r^
FLEMING’S
WAGGOHS
AND
Harness,
Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS,
with Roods.
W,A G G O N S
and
HARNESS
tor all purposes.
Cali, and
sd
4
GOXD/V'$YM/f>
A/yto /
IftahClrt
lITI II
jj) 11 md
/fOr/AV/is
lililUJ
HEAD Office & facw/wW&wjwww
Bfi-ANCH. QE&ff€ffiiGC*3VoJV6V
m
SINGER
aM Co.’s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Seeing off Cheap
MNDANES,
BBS EITT STEHGKT,; SYDNEY.
RAPE REAM GIN GS
HIGH-GDAS3 DAGOES, FRIESES, and
DECORATIONS.
House Decorator and
Painter,
fp.AHfl SILYKIUSR, REVELLER & EMBOSSER
Alex. Boithwick
Oil, Colour, and Glass Merchant,
281 George-street, Sydney.
REMINGTON
HE
TYPE-WRITER
3sl
writing much faiier
ingAMH- to lees iu
Saves labour, stationery, a»d ti
than emtS pen-men, and ceodtaM—„„
the'spaoe occupied % pen writing. Bwmttt'ul
copies may beafalsem in Hie uiuai manner in the let'fcer-Masi
Md wholesale and retSH by the acfle agents.
IMRAY fc CO.,
410 Keni-a treat.
HQaJfineis
baJu\n
l
3.
*
/AM S’
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, &
(J. A, ROBERTS,„R. J. ALCOCK, G. C. CHALMERS, R. G. WATKINS.)
_ GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
iron! HARDWARE, AND MACHINERY merchp
Importers of
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES WOOD-WORKING m
RAILWAY and other CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMEN
CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDERS’
SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES. &c.
■
I
1
Nil
m
WttSm
■ssis
NG SUPPIA-Biß, SWS
MONGER Y, ROLLED H GIRDERS; PORTABLE, FIXED, and SEMI-FIXED BNGIN*£', g]JMH
and HORIZONTAL BOILERS, STEAM and other PUMPS, LATHES, PLANING, t
SGREWING, and DRILLING MACHINES; STEAM HAMMERS; ENGINEERS’ BRA® 0
PATENT^ ROLLED SHAFTING, QUICKSILVER, &c. ‘ g#
ole for FARMER, ROBEY, and BROWN’S CELEBRATED
UNES ; READING IRON WORKS’ AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS and PATE*
WM. TA-YLOR and QO.’S Celebrated OTLS and PAINTS.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & c °'
Head Warehouse ■
Iron and Implement \s«rd.
Bulk Stores - * J
London Office
54 YORK STREET.
HAY and ENGINE STREETS.
HARBOUR STREET. DARLING
ST3D3NTE-ST.
85 GRACECHURCH STRE bT '
*s€*> WORK*.
S'V D M EY.
optf
skjtsOm a sons
„ CON
OIXSOM O.SOMS
YANKEE DP
“”sTr‘ ro o,|.!V
_ NAILROD
SOUS _ m ii
CHAMP IW
Q mspn A S«J *% V*
rinv-n-MtMp
SOL® AGBKTS FOE THE
SMITH.”
’
BRUCE &
jpi^.3stoSi
ORGANS, MU* 3
1&7 PITT-ST.,
TUB ©REAT NORTHERN HOTEL,
•*»-»*,e’MC*-rr.A«B a>«® GScorghc-stree'*.
K. HAIIEY’S
1 DOZEN OASE
OF ASSORTED
WISES, SBIRITS, aad MiLT LIQUORS,
BEL WEEK© ANT PART OP CITY FREE.
> Carriage I'ree by Rail or Steamer. Order the ldoe. case as
you please ijroin the list of low prices as under, viz.:—
Roteertson’s, VfaHt-er or Koval Blend-Sootch Whiskies 4s
Dunville’s Shamrock and Burke's XXX Irwh do. 4s.
Brian Peru Whisky
Henneisy’s Cognac
Ss.
6s.
4s.
4s.
Is. 6d. & 2s. 6d.
t, best brands 4s. *r 11s. od. per dozen
Gs.
2*.
Square G*i
Jaiaaiea Rum
Red Heart do. ..
©tasks Brandy and Whiskies
English Ales amd Sti
Port Wine, for invahas ..
Part Wi«e and Cherry from
Best brands Whisky or Brandy from 20s. perjgallow.
M CAS-H ALSO A SPECIALITY,
Hamu> Akb, Jfojtras*., axb Laber Burw,
Certificatee e£ merit ef the grst-olass. and silver medal
awarded at (he Calcutta Kxhibitd’oiu and' patronised Iscy h«
Hxcoßesmy the Gorenoa’s honseeold, 6d. per bottje. Al?"
fialt-diass Geods. One trial wall prsv,» the fact. Bottle ©e-
„ymH*neut of She 6EKAT BDRTHERX HOTEL, Corppr
"Seorae. street and Cha-rlet&e-plaoe. Orders by post solicited
Wrs. Hantiey attends peteoneHy on lady patron*.
fJIHK OLfUAX OF PERFECTION
MONTSERRAT
LIME FROM? JUICE SAUCE,
SOLD EVERYWHERE,
t m
/■4,
Mec
hMi J 2
MACHINERY
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE STOCKS
WITH ALi.
NEWEST DESIGNS
highest-inish
LOWEST COSTji
1>
LOCOMOTIVES,TOGS, *■"-***
ESTIMATED FOR COUP h
W
LA« nC
COOPER
ROBERT
!VGES
OLE
Sydney:
Ml, PITT STREET,
Tvlelf
S .TP
22, K
M
0 N U M K. -gW»*
In Granite, Marble, and
Iron Tomb RarUDf?", QD rt!<l v
Detigiu iiid Eatucatea
4. CIWSTISi«HAS»* >4 , <**
MA£W.*.B.*X-olKk*l, WYNWi^ I’“a 1 ’“ a


The Bulletin
Vol. 8-No. 373
SATURDAY, MARCH 36, 1887.
Fries©., 6d.
pl|S »P ©IF
ll»Sw
Hunt
'OXFoRo)
•:ASTw/\y
To i3£ER * oT ToftE
njtjs)
l\M N fQRft
' M'L'fyo/fPC
FOLX.7
* Cout- U yo*//
. a°H
j D<
jA,
sMSfROr’
p££P tt "\/|
(/3CVJJS fiACKEK^
* \
/W,|
7 C). Roftt-iCT^
A Page of Publicans.


THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHED OSt* 1 WEEK,
At 24 PlTT-STBRST, SgDNRT, N.S.W,
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
'' j (Payable In Advance).
Per annum - - - - £1 Os. Od.
Half-yearly - - - - 0 12b. Od
Quarterly - O 0s. 6d
All money orders, oheques, and registered letters
payable to
J. M. HARDING,
to whom all orders tor the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
NOTICE.
By sending dtreot to The Bulletin- Office twenty shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One-
pound Ncte, or stamps of any Australian colony—you can
have The Bulletin potted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This oiler is n*t open to reeidents of Sydney. In that city
Thk Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in
the hands of our oarriers, with wham we do not wish to inter-
fere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, MARCH 26. 1887.
Parkos’ Foreign Criminals Bill.
Sir Good-Government Parkes ia disap
pointing. His intentions probably are good
hut ho lacks creative power. He cannot
luvent a measure—cannot suggest even
fresh detail far insertion in the “cribs” he
offers to Hew South Wales. He is noi
decently good as a vamper or plagiarist, but
is simply a scmaors-and-paste man—without
any of the nouif and judgment which are re-
quired to make him of the scissors and paste
valuable. New South Wales is supposed to
be an autonomy, but under Sir Henry
Parkes it is nothing of the sort. His skill
lies only in the direction of getting laws
passed—in working the two Legis'ative
Chambers by means of intrigue, so that they
are content to swallow' nolus-bolus the
Statutory declarations of other communities.
Every one of the Acts of Parliament passed
under his auspices is nothing more or less
than a copy of an Act of some other Parlia-
ment. And, as we have indicated, he copies
the Acts of other Parliaments without dis
crimination. We have said that he is dis-
appointing. He is that, because the ex-
pectation was induced by him and his friends
during the recent elections that s nnething
novel, not to say heroic, in the shape oi
legislative propoia s was forthcoming at his
hands. Tnu time, surely, it was naturally
thought, Sir Henry Parkes will produce a
measure bearing the stamp of originality.
Yet his only Bill is one the object of which
is to prevent the influx into New South
Wales of escaped foreign cmviccs—a Bill
that is simply a copy of an Act passed in
another colony to meet conditi ms and cir-
cumstances dissimilar in important respects
to those with which New South Wales is
confronted. Queensiani might reasonably
feel afraid of New Caledonian escapees, and
might therefore be excused for departing
from the principles of natural justice to the
extent involved in the enactment of such a
law. Queensland has a great terr.toiy and
a small population. A fugitive from the
French convict settlement can scarcely help
striking some point on her enormous coast-
line. A boat set adrift at Noumta would be
almost certain to reach the Queens and shore
without any aid from navigators. And no
doubt at one time the influx of French con-
victs into Queensland was sufficiently great
to cause a small population scattered over an
enormous region some anxiety. The statis-
tics of this immigration are not very reliable,
but probably as many as three-score of
French convicts have found their way into
the northern colony. Sixty foreign intruders
among a few hundred thousand Britishers
may possibly form a warrant for the alarm
that has been felt at Brisbane, and for the
extraordinary measure which was the out-
come. But New South Wales is assuredly
faced by no danger, and might fittingly
maintain a broad human policy towards the
world.
* * •
A narrow policy, such as is outlined in
this Bill, is obviously a confession of weak
ness. Bulgaria in her desperate case the
other day had to shoot a few traitors. When
England was in a somewhat similar case she
had to behead a King. We sympathise with
the Bulgarians of to-day, and with the Eng-
lish of the time of Charles I. Yet witness
the grandeur of the American people in com-
parable circumstances ! Their traitors, who
had caused the sacrifice of a million lives and
two thousand millions of wealth, were simply
told to behave themselves for the future.
And observe also the greatness of the policy
of the same people as regards this question
of fugitive convicts. America opens her
gates to more foreign convicts daily than we
are likely to receive in Australia in a cen-
tury. The menace to her is very real and
palpable. Practically she is nearer to Europe
than Australia is to New Caledonia ; for,
though the space to be traversed may be
considerably greater, the means of transit
are ever at hand in infinite variety. The
punitive systems of Europe largely favour
the eflux of criminals, and naturally they
have a tendency to seek freedom from police
espionage in America. For first offences
now-a-days the punishments in force among
about two hundred millions of European
people consist mainly in giving the offenders
a chance to reform, and these offenders
gravitate to America in enormous and con-
stantly increasing numbers. Then it would
be wrong to forget that in a small way Aus-
tralia has added to the criminal population
of the United States. One notorious high-
wayman was actually deported from New
South Wales to California at the expense of
the Government —of a Government pre-
sided over by Sir Henry Parkes ! America,
nevertheless, keeps her gates open, and
finds, on the whole, that it pays. She
suffers little or no inconvenience from the
inflowing crowds of European criminals,
for, however disobedient they may have
been to the laws of their native countries,
they rapidly develope a tendency to obey
the laws of their adopted country. And if
America can afford to witnoss unconcerned
the masses of outcasts perennially floating
across the Western Ocean, surely Australia
might refrain from noticing the infinitesimal
danger presented by the French convict
colony in the Pacific.
The truth is that this wretched little Bill
has been raked out of some dirt-heap by Sir
Henry Parkes for no other reason than
that it was necessary to supply a Bill of
some kind for the Assembly to discuss, and
he lacked the vigour required to frame one
for himself. There never was a demand in
New South Wales for such a measure, nor a
justification. Victoria during the gold fever
passed a law against the landing of cer-
tain criminals, but that was more by way of
protest against the policy of Downing-street
authorities which threatened to flood the in-
fant colony with the worst class of convicts
from Van Dieman’s Land. There’s not a
single < ircumstance calling for the proposal;
nor a single voice, save the feeble pipes of
Sir Henry himself. Yet no doubt the
thing will be debated at great length, and
will be paraded as if it embraced some
valuable principle. In obtaining leave for
its introduction Sir Henry Parkes argued
that it was a necessity for the Australian
colonies to have a uniform law on the subject;
and we suppose that is a sample' of the
arguments on the strength of which the
House will be asked to authorise the
measure. The argument touching the need
for uniformity is always the dernier resiort of
advocates for laws that are not required.
Why should there be uniformity ? If there
is a col >u cable necessity for uniformity in
this case, most certainly there is a perfectly
plain necessity for uniformity in respect to
at least a dozen larger matters ; and if the
argument for uniformity is worth anything
it involves far too much, for it destroys the
autonomous principle held sacred by the
colonies. If we have to follow Victoria in
regard to foreign criminals, why not in re-
gard to public instruction, the Custom House
tariff, and other important matters ? But
the contention is too feeble and absurd for
the slightest consideration ; and the fact of
its being put forward shows the utter weak-
ness of the scheme per se. Whether the
Bill will become law or not is a problem
difficult to solve. On its merits it ought to
be thrown into the waste-basket without a
moment’s hesitation or delay ; but we can
h.rdly hope for any measure to be dealt
with strictly on its merits by the present
Assembly. If the Government happen to
have a deal of time to lose, no doubt this
Bill will be played with for the purpose of
keeuing the House occupied, and it may thus
reach the final stage. The Council, for its
part, will probably receive the scheme
favourably. The horror of criminals—
foreign, British, or colonial—in that Cham-
ber is phenomenal. If it does pass, it will be
another among the numerous cases of laws
the idea of which has been snatched ready-
made from a Statute Book beyond the con-
trol of the inhabitants of New South Wales
picked up merely by accident, and passed
nto law by accident.
PLAIN ENGLISH
More Jubilee !
Victoria is going to put up a statue of the Queen
as a Jubilee memento j ust because the colony has
been named after the wealthy Mrs. Guelph. If
the Southern grovellers will only arrange that the
marble shall be facially a good portrait, and, like
its original, short and dumpy, not to say squat
and fat and obese, and melancholy-looking, and if,
further, they will but put it in a place where it
may and must be seen by everybody gratis, all
the “ loyalty ” of the great Victorian nation will
evaporate in less than three weeks. And, by the
way, the Victorians have already on hand an
image which is calculated in the process of time
to make the colonists utterly abhor, detest,
despise, loatho, and oven execrate the Hanoverian
dynasty ; the only fortunate cireumstanoe coa-
nected with which image is that you have to pay a
shilling to see it. We allude to the effigy of the
Prince of Wales in the Bourke-street Waxworks.
This blasphemous hunk of pearl-powdered beejuice
represents Albert Edward, the brave and good
and learned and virtuous, as a beetle-browed ruf-
fian (in a coat cut by a gaol tailor) with murder
on his brow, arson in his eyes, gluttony and curses
on his lips, and epilepsy all over his face ; worse
still, he has been given phrenological bumps
which would damn a dog stealer As loyal citizens,
we call upon Duncan Gilli*s and Loch when
they put up Victoria’s marble to pull down
Albert Edward’s beeswax Poor, dear old
Kreitmayer, we have had many a laugh in your
Chamber of Horrors at the two Chinamen who
are sawing off the girl’s head in the dark corner.
But we have never gazed upon your Albert
Edward without longing to arraign you for sedi-
tion.
Parkes as a Parliamentarian.
Ik there was one point on which the reputation of
Sir Henry Parkes may bs considered tjhave
safely hinged, it assuredly wa3 that which sprung
from a knowledge of the practice Of Parliament.
He has been in the New South Wales Assembly
ever since it existed, and has necessarily acquired
a fund of information touching the conduct of
business in that House. Tnere are many people,
indeed, who imagine he would make an admirable
Speaker. His great experience of parliamentary
roatine, these people think, would be a set-off
against his intellectual kinks and inability to in-
terpret law. But, judging from his utterances in
connection with the Abbott incident, he is as
much overrated as a parliamentaiian as he is as a
statesman. When the House assembled on Tues-
day fortnight it was perfectly well-known that Mr.
Abbott had bsen declared one of the duly-electtd
members, A return to the writ had not reached
the Crown, and under the absurd system peculiar
to New South Wales, information by telegram
cannot be regarded as reliable. Mr. Abbott, see-
ing he was not on the list of members returned,
and desiriDg to at once discharge the functions of
a representative, administered the oath to himself,
and thereafter spoke and voted as a member with
outlet or hindrance. Sir Henry Parkes took
no notice whatsoever of the affair, beyond indi-
cating that he did not suppose the House would
eject Mr. Abbott. On Thursday, however, Mr.
J. S. Farnell raised the question as to whether
Mr. Abbott was legally present in the Assembly.
Sir Henry then averred that he knew all along
that the presence of Mr. Abbott was in violation of
the law. He knew this all the while, yet remained
silent and passive 1 Surely it is the duty of the
leader of the House to take steps to pi event an
infringement of the statutory declarations by
virtue of which the House exists. But th s
leader did not conceive that any duty was
cast upon him, and when his lapsus was
mentioned he attempted to shelter himself
under a ludicrous excuse. “ At the time when
Mr. Abbott went through the formality of swear-
ing himself in,” explained Sir Henry Parkes,
“ the House was not constituted—there was no
Speaker, there was no person in authority, and
the Government had no power whatever to deal
with the case.” If the leader of the House
suffered from lack of power before the olection of
a Speaker, and if that were the reason of his in-
action prior to the election of a Speaker, clearly it
formed no ground for his subsequent indifference
to the matter until Mr. Farnell brought it
under his notice. But the theory that the House
is not constituted until a Speaker is elected is a
self evident absurdity. Tim very fact of its being
able to elect a Speaker demonstrates with mathe-
matical precision the fact of its beirg constituted
—for if it were not legally constituted the election
of a Speaker would ipso fact') be invalid. The
idea that the constitution of the Assembly re3ts
upon the election of its Speaker is strikingly
original and funny, and could only have occurred
to a mind capable of startling feats of imagina
tion. Upon this unique hypothesis, any number
of persons could rush the House, swear them-
selves in, and take part in the first, and, in a
sense, the most important business of the session.
Any tyro could inform this great parliamen-
tarian that the proper time to have taken ex-
ception to Mr. Abbott’s presence in the Chamber
was when that member made his presence known
by overt speech and action, and that the proper
person to have taken exception was Prime Minis-
ter Parkes himself.
Abigail on Toast Agam.
Once more we have the Hon. Fr\ncis Abigail,
Minister of Mines for New South Wale 3
in the Pro-trade Free-tection Government
of Parke 3 cum - Gin Roberts - cum ■ Ginger
Clarke— on toast. Abouc twelve months
ago the saddler 3 and bootmakers of Sydney pro
posed holding a meeting to induce the Govern-
ment to relieve the then depressed state of their
trades. One of the motions determined on was a
request that a 20 per cent, import duty thould be
placed on all articles in these departments, and by
way of helping the good oause along, it was de-
cided to write to Mr Abigail and secure his in-
fluence. This was done, and here’s an exact copy
of the reply of the man who now deflte anyone to
prove he ever said or did anything in fa/our of
Protection:
“ S/dney, February P», 1886. Mr. : —■, Sec. Sadie s and
Bootmakers United Meeting. Dear Sir.—Yeur Letter Duly
to Hand in reply thereto I beg to say if in Sydney I will at-
tend the meeting and Listen to what is Sail in Support of
the resolutions you have sent me and Bhould I Consider them
satisfactory I would not object to support one of tne motions
or offer a Fuw general remarks but I do not wish to do Even
that if there is any objects in this committee I would re-
commend you to Select some from among Yourselfus who
will be able to clearly and c nc’sely state the Case and not
intrudnse into the Didcussion a Lot of rambling matter the
press will be ready to critize and you must make out a real
strong case wishing you every success I am Your, &c , F.
Abigail.”
The tenor of this letter clearly proves Francis to
have been in favour of Protection, especially as
regards his own particular trade and interest, and
we now once more call upon him to put up that
twenty-five pounds, or for ever shut up on the
questions of his political honor and consistency.
Blots on the New Sou’h Wales
Electoral Law.
The sacred rights of brieks, mortar, and unim-
proved lands have been thoroughly well conserved
under the present New South Wales Electoral
Law, as the following figures will show. The
votes recorded in Sydney for country and subur-
ban electorates at the late elections were, aa far as
we know in number, as under :
Newtown 887
Balmain 338 G
Nepean 144
Camden 351
Central Cumberland 967
Canterbury .. .. 6069
Hawkeßbury 104
Total 11,916
These votes are in most instanoes the outoome of
a property qualification, and there is nothing on
earth to prevent a fat capitalist from having 20
or 30 votes, and voting every one of them com-
fortably and leisurely in Sydney. It may be said,
and said with some degree of truth, that large
numbers of these votes are those of men living in
the suburbs but coming to Sydney dally to
business. If so, then let them vote in Syd-
ney, and for Sydney—East, West, or South,
as the case may be—for their heart must be there.
1 Why should a Sydney man who owns a vacant
allotment next to one’s place of business at, say,
Burwood, be allowed to vote in respect to that bit
of earth, and by his vote neutralize the effect of
the vote of the local man wtio knows every pos-
sible “out and in ” of the electorate aud whit iore-
quires? whilsthe, the Sydney in an, mustbegu'dedby
the opiaion j he has formed from hi 3 major interests
in Sydney. This property qualification—call it
leasehold, freehold, or by any other name you will
—is a feudal relic utterly at variance with the first
principles of democratic government. It should
not exist a pingle day. But we have no hope of
seeing the present New South Wales Ministry at-
tempt its abolition. Parses dare not attempt it
with his present following, and the ossifications
“in another place.” Bug it must come, and as a
consequence no man should have more than one
vote in the colony, and all parliamentary elections
ought to take place on the same day. “Pulling
wires ” would then cease to be one of the chief
duties of a Premier, and the public—so easily led
by impulse and a slippery tongue—would say
“ Yes” or “ No” without being victimised by the
miserable election-day “ arranging’' we have so
recently witnessed. The democratic election plat- •
form is—
1. Abolition of all property qu&lific&ti m for voters.
2. No man to have more than one vote.
3. No polliog pla«e to be allowed outeide of any electorate.
4. All the elections on one day.
Unemployed Mil’ionaires.
It is really time something were done to those
bloated monopolists of leisure, the unemployed..
A southern New South Wales contemporary
gravely records the finding of considerable sums
oi money, by the police, on the persons of sundry
of the unemployed brought before the bench for
drunkenness. This is a serious—nay, a heinous
charge. Why should the country longer tolerate
the existence of a leisured cia3S of bloated unem-
ployed—millionaires of minutes—revelling in a
plethora of health and empty stomachs, daintily
fod with food fit for flowers, pure, fresh, zephyr-
borne breezes; gorgeously apparelled in ampler
vestments than ever the noble Greek luxuriated
in when contesting in the Isthmian games ; their
ventilated clothing admihting the keen tonic of
the wayward wind, their bare limbs lapped by the
lambent sunbeam ; their couoh the springing
grass of picturesque Sydney Domain ; with all the
pleasures of pure—or should we say bare—exist-
ence more beneficently besiowed upon them than
upen the surfeited and supine sybarite of ancient
Lydia or lonia; yet, notwithstanding all these
gorgeous joys, with money in, their pockets This
is too much ! Money —probably a burnt three-
penny bit and sixpence with a hole in |t, con-
tributed by some waggish legislator at the collec-
tion taken up at the “atatchu” ; bat no matter, it
was money. Bad—no doubt counterfeit —and so they
couldn’t pass it. or they would have done so in
preference to allowing a “ trap” to confiscate it as
an unwilling donation to the erection of the
regulation terrace. Think of it, the pam-
psred epicures had monoy I It is nearly
time the N.S.VV. Government faced with a firm
and unllinching front this unemployed vested
interests difficulty. Let’s have no shelving the
question, because the unemployed belong to a
powerful and influential class. The money found i
in their pockets was doubtless intended for pur-
pose of bribery : portion of a fund collected to ■
influence votes in the coming struggle in which
-heir right to a monopoly of leisure will be queried.
Bj this a* it may, we should suggest that as soon
as the N.S.W. ad valorem duties are repealed, and
asit will be imperatively necessary to tax something,
a heavy assessment be placed upon absentees (the
unemployed in England) and the edacious epi-
cures, the voluptuous Paphiaus, the opulent Pac-
tolians who gather round the Queen’s statue and .
protest they are hungry and want work—with
untold treasure rusting in their waistcoat pockets. .
Sir Patrick Jellyfish !
Strange, indeed, would it have been i£ out of the >
many columns of vulgar vituperation in which Sir
Henry Parkes indulged during the late New
South Wales elections he had not uttered one
trufii or given one faithful description of an op-
ponent. When he described Sir Patrick Jen-
nings as a " political je.lyfish—a flabby thing
without vertebrae many people—who entirely
disapproved of Sir Patricks actions—thought
that Parkks overstepped the hounds of common ,
decsney, but subsequent events show that the
slimy des’gnation was well deserved. Sir
Patrick’s desertion of the party which so loyally
supported him in the last Parliament against the -
most unscrupulous opposition which ever con-
fronted any Government in Australia —an Opposi
tion which fought the more desperately because it
was afflicted wiih a terrible hunger for office, the
toothsome morsels of which it had not tasted for
years—earnedfor him general and unmitigated con-
tempt, and now that the full reasons are Known
for his declining to take any part in the elections,,
his name cannot be mentioned without feelings of
political abhorrence. immediately after the dis-
solution of Parliament Sir Patrick announcad!
that it was not his intention to seek re-election,
and shortly after this ic was intimated that he and
Mr. W isdom had been appointed delegates to re>
present New South Wales at the Imperial Con-
ference in Loudon. It was added in the inspired
paragraphs which appeared in certain newspapers
that under any circumstances these two gentle-
men intended to visit England to recruit the
energies which they had exhausted in the me-
morable session of 1&86 —the one in endeavouring
to sleep, and the other in endeavouring to
make sleep an impossibility within a radius
of a mile of PetrliaraOnt Houses—and til ,t
Sir Henry Parkes thought that it would be
a good thing for the colony to avail itself of their
services while they were in London. This was
only half ef the truth ; the other half was care-
fully suppressed, and in all probability it would
have remained a Government secret until supple-
mentary estimates for 1887 were submitted for ap-
proval in 1888, if the inquisitive MEkhone had not
asked an ugly question. Is it any wonder that
there was a spontaneous exclamation of ‘ ‘ scan
dalous I ” from the floorites and the galleryites
when Sir Henry Parkes said that the two
gentlemen had been projpised £IOOO each to
cover their expenses 1 The transaction is cer-
tainly a scandalous one as far as Sir P. J.
is concerned, and it is not less scandalous
in the case of Sir H. P. The latter has not
concealed his opinien that the Imperial Confer-
ence is a farcieal affair, from which no possible
good can be expected, but he says that as it is to
be of a consultative character, no harm can he
done by sending the representatives. Is there no
harm in a Government which has to make pro-
vision to get rid of a defleit of £3,000,000, and
which has promised judicious retrenchment of
public expenditure, spendiug £2OOO to send to
London on a fool’s errand a political jellyfish and
a political larrikin who was expelled from Parlia-
ment for his misbehaviour 1 What will the unfor-
tunate Civil servants who have received their walk-
ing tickets and those who have had their salaries
“docked” considerably think of this display of
“ honest administration ” ? What do the people


of New South Wales think of it—the majority of
whom a few weeks since allowed themselves to
be influenced by the bland professions of honesty
and purity of the party of “ commercial freedom
and good Government ” ? As there has been no
Parliamentary sanction for this wasteful extra-
vagance it will be the duty of every honest mem-
ber to fight resolutely against the item whenever
it is submitted for approval.
Tbe Brisbane Courier is a funereal paper which,
having resolved to adopt an orphan, a few weeks
ago fixed upon Parkes. It published an artiole,
apparently written by a local fish-liar, in which it
pointed out that the prize Billingsgater of New
South Wales was a calf-bound edition of Moses
and Solomon and all the wise prophets of the uld
Testament hashed together. Protection, it is said,
was doomed in New South Wales, and Parkes
had no need after all to run the Freetrade ticket
so strongly, for Freetrade had never once been in
danger. A few days later, however, the follow-
ing portentous ite m appeared in the Courier’s
Sydney correspondence:—
" So far as the Protectionists are concerned, the result of
the elections is a surprise to the Government They never
believed that forty Protectionists would be returned
The proportion of Pr.tectionißt members in the House, it
may be remarked, does not represent the proportion in the
country. There are hundreds of Protectionists in the country
who voted for the Parkes candidates because of their belief
that the Protectionists were not prepared to take the reins of
power, and also that Sir Henry should be allowed to try his
hand on the deficit. To people of insight, the elections reveal
clearly that the days of Freetrade in this colony are n umbered,
and that, probably, its requiem will be sung at the close of
the present Parliament."
Now, does that Sydney correspondent mean to say
that the leader-writer is a liar, or is the leader-
writer prepared to prove that the correspondent is
an ass 1 Or do they both intend to insinuate that
the editor doesn’t know enough to come in out of
the rain ? Or what on earth do they mean, any-
how f
The Freetrade champions have been silent on
some important features of the statistics of Vic-
toria and New South Wales for 1886. The increase
of population in New South Wales, as estimated
from arrivals and departures by sea, was 10,000
less than It was in 1885, whilst in Victoria the
actual increase was greater than it has ever been
in any one year—with one exception— that was in
the Fifties, during the time of the gold fever.
The significance of these figures is the more
marked when it is borne in mind that the New
South Wales immigration system accounts for the
increase in pepulation to a large extent, while in
Victoria there is no State-aided immigration.
There is the further fact that the New South
Wales Government spends nearly £2,000,000 more
annually than the Victorian Government does,
yet notwithstanding this there have been thou-
sands of men out of employment in New South
Wales throughout the year, whilst in Victoria the
whole population seem to have been profitably
employed. The New South Wales Government
accounts show an alarming deficiency, and
the Savings Banks returns show a falling off
in private savings. In Victoria the condi-
tions are quite the reverse. Sir Henry Parkes
describes Protection as a “ species of madness.” If
it is so, these figures show that there is a great
deal of method in it. There are now over 5000
men, not including those engaged in relief works,
employed on public works in New South Wales,
and as the borrowing power of the colony has
reached its limit for the present, and new publio
works of an extensive character cannot be under-
taken for years to oome, it will not be long before
the majority of these men will have to look to the
industries “ built on the solid rock of Freetrade ”
for employment. The Soup Kitchen will oome in
for a very large amount of patronage. M‘Mil-
lionicm will riot in luxury in its Potts Point
palaces, while the real wealth of the country—its
labour—will have to go down on its knees and beg
for soup. The proper place for people who assume
that, because Parkes is in power and the Sydney
importers are to be allowed to have increased
profits, the industrial and financial crises are at an
end in New South Wales, is Callan Park Asylum
That valuable moral organ, the Sydney D.T., is
now weeping over the crime of New South Wales,
and, apropos of a bill to prevent the influx ef
foreign convicts, it states that “ the present
calendar at the New Soulh Wales Criminal Court
is, perhaps, one of the nastiest that has ever dis
graced a community of white men.” The same
issue, however, contains a striking example of
how “nasty calendars” are manufactured in the
oolony out of very slender material indeed.
William Boughton was tried a few days ago for
a capital offence, his wife (who had been twice in
a lunatic asylum) asserting that he had ma’a her
swallow some poison mixed with jam. She did
not believe, however, that the poison was a deadly
eae, and the jury thereupon inquired if they could
find Boughton guilty of assault only. They
were informed, however, that they must either
take his life or let him go free, and as (especially
in view of what they knew about the Governor
and the Executive Council) they were not pre
pared to convict a man for mudrer whose
victim was alive and well, the foreman promptly
replied, “ Then we bring in a verdict of ‘Not
Guilty.’ ” This is the “ mob’s answer ’’—the pro-
test of the people against a brutal, convict-time
law which transforms assault into murder, even
though no murder has been done. The smaller
crime goes unpunished, because bo jury will
(unless hustled into a fever and temporarily de-
prived of their reason, as in the Mount Rennie
ease) shed human blood on a comparatively trivial
charge. And thus, not oniy dees the law sink
into deserved contempt among the people of the
country, but New South Wales is disgraced by
long lists of charges in “faked-up” calendars
until it comes to be regarded by the nations of the
earth as the plague-spot of the Southern Hemis-
phere,
It is so seldom the Argus is delivered of a healthy
idea that we welcome the last little stranger and
beg to christen it with a few drops of approving
comment. This is what the Squatter’s Friend
and Vested Interests’ Guardian has to suggest
anent police-court swears: “Beth judges and
police might feel the burden of duty somewhat
more acutely if perjury were taken out of the
category of religious crimes . . . and if, by the
substitution of declaration for oath, it were made
simply a common but heinous effence, the way
might be cleared for some practical reform.”
Good enough 1 Kissing the Book is just a played-
out institution for the propagation of lip diseases.
If ever a man takes his “ Bible oath ” in defeoce of
a yarn, you can bet your very bottomest dollar
that he’s telling a deliberate lie.
The “ Munificent Mayor” (vide press) of Fitzroy
(Melb.) has duly brought off his Jubilee bun-
struggle to 8000 school children, and we will
wager ®ur immortal soul that the glorious tidings
were cabled “ home,” Anyway, this paragraph
is pretty sure to meet the eye of Our Sovereign
Lady, so the Mayor’s philanthropy will be adver-
tised in the right quarter, bless his heart! Each
of the 8000 children took away a Jubilee medal,
embellished with a false presentment of the
Queen's phiz on one side, and a faithful record of
the donor's goodness on the other. 8000 little
urchins have now riveted it into their little minds
that Mr. Mayor Clauscen is one of the brightest
jewels in the English crown. 8000 boys and gals
are now aware that there is one Queen, and Clau-
scen is her prophet. A glorious and worthy
celebration of a glorious and remarkable event
was this same Jubilee fete. It cost as much as
would provide food for a hundred of the Queen’s
starving subjects for a year or more. And all
on the off chance of a paltry knighthood. Why,
the same money would buy a dookdom in Spain,
or Portugal.
*
The Victorian Minister of Justice has disen-
tangled a very knotty legal question. It involved
the liberty of Misther Peter O’Farrell, the
volatile gintleman who formerly wanted to mur-
ther Archbishop Goold. Not so long ago,
O’Farrell was “jugged” in default of finding
sureties to keep the peace against his brother-in-
law. In the prison cell he sat, friendless and
alone, until last of all the brother-in-law died.
Then a bright idea broke across the gloom of
O'Farrell’s mind, He applied to the Crown for
his release on the ground that he “ could not now
commit a breach of the peace with regard to his
brother-in-law.” The Minister of Justice wrestled
with O’Fabrbll’s petition for some days. It
ocourred to him that this wild Italian might dig
up his brother-in-law and do him grievous bodily
harm. But then again it occurred to him that
two parties are required for a quarrel, and that
there can be no breach of the peace between the
quick and the dead. Finally, the mentally ex-
hausted Minister decided to “accept” O’Farrell’s
views, and recommended the Crown to let the
child of Italia go.
The Church oe England Messenger (Vic.)
complains about the importation of Bishops from
England. It says that many of the Victorian
Anglican clergy are as fit to wear an apron as any
other man. Very likely they are (every
old woman weais an apron), and after the
way the Melbourne Bishopric had to be hawked
about before Field Flowers Goe went and took
it, it certainly seems that the privilege of being
James or John Melbourne is not very much
esteemed by the well-fed workers in the Lord's
vineyard in England. Perhaps having to go on
with the erection of the Cathedral opposite the
Fishmarket had something to do with it, as well
as the amount of “ screw.” But for the matter of
that, why shouldn’t we breed not only our own
Bishops, but also our Governors and their aides-de-
camp i Perhaps it is too much to expect Aus-
tralian manhood to descend so low in the scale of
intellectual procreation.
The Melbourne D.T. has got into such a low state
through religious mania, poor thing! that the
doctor has ordered “coupon plebiscites” on in-
teresting subjects. Her Gracious Majesty was
the first subject, and all the Sunday-school
teachers, and the parsons, and the elders who
dabble in stocks or soft goods for the Glory of
God, and the very old ladies, &c., who can take
Melbourne D.T. without danger—all of these were
invited to fill in answers to such questions as
this : “ What feature in the Queen’s character is
most worthy of admiration ? ” The lucky party
who gave all the answers that everybody else
gave, only more so, was rewarded with a modes:,
prize for having such an everyday sort of mind.
A most successful affair was that first competition,
and a spirit of earnestness pervaded the answers.
Certainly, one outcast wrote “ None ” in answer
to the affectionate enquiry about Her Gracious.
But he was regarded as a shocking example and
held up to opprobrium, accordingly. After Vickey
had been discussed in all her points there was a
“cricket” coupon, and now the D.T. has got
fairly on to the subject nearest and dearest to its
poor, weak, palpitating heart. It is taking a
“ Plebiscite on Preachers,” and the lucky reader
is asked to “ Name the one you would choose for
yourself, and why. ’ We found that one a lot
easier than giving the Queen a noble character.
We named our preacher at once, and gave a
reason that you can’t get away from—Question :
“ Name the one,” &c. Answer : Halleluiah Susan,
of the Colling wood Harmy. Question: “And
why 1 ” Answer : Because she's built that way.
Parson Fitchett please give us the oake and let
us go
Judging from outward symptoms, Parkes is
about to pitch his ebenezer in the New South
Wales Assembly and turn that bear-garden into a
house of devotion. A lot of harmless clergy-
men have conceived an idea that the daily pro-
fanity, cursing, and perversion of law should be
heralded by orison as well as by drunkenness, and
they have also—strangely enough—pitched on the
champion bad-languager of New South Wales as
the proper man to bring about this desirable re-
form. In other words, they petition that Parlia-
ment be opened with Prayer; and Sir ’Enry,
whose chief political boast is that he founded a
system of national education in which every kind
of religion and prayer is left out, accepts the com-
pliment and says gravely that “he thinks it a
matter of so muoh importance, and one brought
under his notice by so respectable a body of citi-
zens, that it is worthy of immediate attention.”
He does not absolutely commit himself, it is true,
yet he is only sitting on a scriptural rail and try-
ing to toss up with Providence for a vote or two,
and if Providence wins then we will see the
strange spectacle of Parkes —whose every speech
has of late been full of vulgar insult to everybody
who does not think as he pretends to think —
posing as the avowed advocate of religion, and
solemnly calling on Heaven to make the ways of
the fish-fag straight. We can only hope that he
won’t insist on acting as chaplain himself.
For five weary years must Charles Augustus
Smyth, the Wesleyan local preacher, commune
with his soul in the solitude of a Melbourne gaol.
The Loard deserted him in his hour of trouble, and
Charles Augustus was found guilty of wheed-
ling some £3700 out of Thomas Retallick and
sticking to the spoil. This was one of those rare
cases where the lamb first makes overtures to the
wolf. Retallick, on his own admission, felt
irresistibly attracted to Charles Augustus
Smyth. A certain something about the way in
which the local preacher turned up the whites of
his eyes prompted the Cornishman to ask the
favour of a few minutes’ conversation. For a
while Smytii could hardly realise his good luck,
and was sceptioal About the wealth of his new-
found admirer. Bfft when the admirer began to
press big cheques upon him, poor tempted Smyth
fell. Retallick was his “ little pipe,” upon
which he played to the tune of £3700. One is
bound to feel sorry for Smyth, because he was
such a firm believer in “ the power of Christ
unto salvation.” His sermons melted the
ladies to tears, and when he preached
from “ There is a friend that sticketh closer
than a brother,” Ketallick was especially
affected. Even to the last the Cornishman cher-
ished a sneaking regard for the Christian snuffler
who had eased him of a life’s savings. When
counsel asked him if he still “loved” Smyth, he
hung down his head and said “ Dunno.” There
was a bond of sympathy between the two men,
independent of their mutual hdnger after Salva-
tion. Retallick left the missus, eloped with his
“ slavey ” from England, and when he put it to
Smyth, ”as a Christian man ” whether he could
overlook such an indiscretion, the preacher
coughed a little pulpit cough, and observed that
“ something of the sort had happened to himself.”
The man was a bigamist. All things considered,
it is a pity that Smyth and Retallick couldn’t
live and die together in peace and the blessed
hope of a resurrection. What an evil is money,
dear friends, when it parts two lecherous, psalm-
smiting Wesleyans like these 1 Let us conclude
with the doxology.
This is what they put in the English paper at the
matriculation examination at Melbourne Uni-
versity this month :—Parse upwards of a dozan of
selected words, analyse two passages, give deri-
vations of a dozen words, write out 16 lines of
poetry from memory, write 6 sentences containing
given examples of syntax, give positives and com-
paratives of 12 adjectives, explain allusions in 8
given sentences, answer grammatical questions,
give chronological order of authors of prescribed
text books, and write a short account of any two,
state the works from which the passages were
taken and give the context, and finally write an
essay. The time allowed was two hours, and the
writing was to be plain and legible. Education is
at high pressure in the Southern colouy. It is a
wonder they did not require the candidates to tip
the next Melbourne Oup correctly also during the
120 minutes at their disposal.
The Rev. Dr. Bevan, of Melbourne, lately lec-
tured on Her Cadgesty, and as a near-sighted,
colour-blind wallower in the trough of grovel, he
distances all competitors, even in this, the year
of almost universal cringe. To show that the
good Doctor keeps himself right in the van of
knowledge and abreast of all the latest scandals,
we will quote one greasy steak from his fulsome
oration :
England has grown to be accustomed to the unwonted
sight of a Royal Court severe in its virtues, and but seldom
hears even shallow natures venture on the poor sneer or jest
at Princes who are serious in their moralities and devout in
their simple piety.”
“Devout in their simple piety” is rich. Yes,
richer than Christmas.
The Case of Dr. M'Glynn.
Tiie Sydney Freeman’s Journal recently con-
gratulated the Roman Catholics on the fact that
Henry George, the economist of the epoch, had
shown his hand. The friends of Progress, may,
on the contrary, sincerely congratulate themselves
on the Roman Catholic Church having shown its
hand. The successors of St. Peter have missed
a grand opportunity. It was theirs to head and
lead a great: social movement. But, true to their
traditions, they cling abjectly to She skirts of Im-
perialism, or the bastard democracy which mas-
querades in the robes of Liberty. The existing
order of things is doomed to die, beyond the power
of reprieve. A new era is approaching in whieh
the political economy of the past will have no
place. Social questions, which have hitherto
been brushed aside by the governing classes, inter-
ested in maintaining institutions existing for the
benefit of a few to the detriment of the many,
will force themselves into a primal—nay, the fore-
most —place. But the Church of Rome, as ever in
matters of reform, will be the last to correctly
gauge the situation. And it is only by placing
itself at the head of a great movement of reform
that in can hope to repair its decaying prestige.
The New York papers to hand supply particulars
ot the supercession of Dr. M ‘Glynn, the Socialistic
priest, who had the temerity—in defiance of Roman
bulls and sacerdotal commands —to advocate
Henry George’s candidature to the Mayoral chair
of the New York Municipal Council. This same
priest had previously got himself into hot holy
water by his advocacy of undenominational edu-
cation, reformed land legislation, and various
other social matters. Henry George laughed at
the fulminations of Dr. M‘Glynn’s metropolitan—
Dr. Corrigan, the R.C. Archbishop of New York—
and replied to them by twitting the Church in
America with being controlled by ideas moss-
grown with centuries of tottering senility, and
with being dominated in matters political by a
power 1000 miles distant in space. Many people,
viewing the whole affair a 3 an experiment in
strategy, are ready to blame Henry George’s
wholesale attack on the Roman Catholio Church :
but the great land-reformer is a shrewd man. He
thoroughly recognises the soundness of the policy,
and the immense advantage gained amongst the
opponents of Catholicism in defining and consoli-
dating one’s foes. There is now a line of demar-
cation, visibly and strongly limned, between the
Sacerdotalists and the reformers.
* * «
And so much the better ! It is an extraordinary
stretch of imagination, indeed, to picture the
devoted Roman Catholic as a reformer at all.
Should he ever take up so contradictory and
anomalous a position, it is in spite of his being
intellectually and morally hide-bound. The
Church of Rome never yet did a hand's turn for
the cause of human progress, purely and simply
for the sake of humanity. She receives much
credit for keeping alive the flame of learning dur-
ing the long mental night of thraldom and ignor-
ance rightly designated as the Dark Ages. That
she did so is purely an accident. Her control of
all learning gave her also unlimited and absolute
control of all ignorance. The sons of the Church
were the only men who were at all learned, and
they took precious care to keep what little learn-
ing they had to themselves, in order to use it as a
weapon for the consolidation of the power of
their Church. Mitres rest on Thrones and
Coronets. The rule of the priest is a concomi-
tant to the rule of a caste. Bayonets protect the
sanctity of pontificals. If a priest shows
any dangerous signs of liberalism he is
promptly reprimanded and counselled to recollect
that he is a cleric and not a citizen. This is the
never-failing attitude of Rome towards her more
advanced children. Whether Dr. M‘Glynn has
sufficient moral courage to take up the position of
Galileo, and vindicate his right as an American
citizen by holding out to the bitter end and re-
fusing to appear before the tribunal at Rome, at
the bidding of the Pape, to answer the heinous
charge of asserting his political liberty, or whether
he yields to his spiritual superiors, concerns us little.
The main fact remains untouched. The dominance
of the Church is unhealthy ; her teaching is re-
pressive. It is, in fact, little better than intellec-
tual slavery. The priest is everywhere and in
every age the same —the enemy of mental eman-
cipation. The Index Expurgatoris is a monument
to ignorance and bigotry. Our own land is no excep-
tion. Here, as elsewhere, the Church lacks only the
power of enforcing her decrees. The utterances of
Cardinal Moran, or even of his comparatively
liberal-minded predecessor, Archbishop Vaughan
have ever indicated the sacerdotally-gyved ideas
of the Corrigans of New York or the IjEos of
Rome. No reform, but rather obstruction, must
be expected from the vicegerents of Heaven and
their priestly myrmidons.
CORRESPONDENCE
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MSS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible tor the preservation or transmission of such
MSS.
“George A.” (Launceston): Haven’t the faintest
shadow of an idea what you are driving at. Never yet, at any
date in our long and beneficent career, have we come across a
fist like yours. .“Cingalee”: So the lady hotel-keeper “refused
admission to the dead body of her drowned lodger,” did she ?
Well, a corpse doesn’t drink or shake for beers at the bar..
“Jerry” (Carrathool): You ask for our opinion of your
verses. Here it is. There is no curse yet built, from leprosy
down t j mother-indaw, that is large enough to fit the wretoh
vho would write such drivel. You are calculated to make a
hog blush.... Author of “Our Giant”; Hardly interesting
enough. Might do for the Christian Colonist....
“Charles Johnson” (Nyngan): You ask us to say candidly
what we think of your verses. Well, they are as rough as an
alligator, the spelling is various, the metre comes but in
spots, and the rhyme is as uncertain as the morals of a wom-
bat. Just listen to this: —
“ My Father he gamble
He drink and he ramble ;
Fwat can we do when repent will not he?
Bloodshot with Arrows,
Our Joys are Sorrows,
Oh! Children pray some relieve-pray with me.”
Why the Federal Council do you spell “what” as “ fwat?”
....“ F.J.K.” : Sorry we are not in a position to make a de-
finite statement,...“G.W.E." (Sydney): Bradlaugh at first
declined to take tho oath and wished to make an affirmation
instead, as Quakers are allowed to do. He was refused this
privilege, and then when he offered to take the oath in due
form he was informed it could not be administered, as he
had declared the customary swear was not binding on his
conscience. It is not binding on the consciences of the
other 600 odd members either, but they are not honest
enough to say 50....“ P.W.” (Melb.): When the victims of a
man who has robbed his clients try to realise the defaulter's
assets, we don’t see why a judge who happens to be related
to the thief should draw up the statement of defence against
the claims of those who would upset settlements made by
the person who has robbed them. This the more especially
when the judge kaows that the case will, in some shape or
other, inevitably come before himself “G.F.” (Sydney)
Not certain as to date, but believe it was April
2nd, 1880, Bradlaugh offered to affirm, but the
pietists of the House would not permit him,
....“Elector ” (Merriwah): You are not, strictly speaking
the kind of soft-eyed gazelie for writing poetry. Your verse*
is too shaky, and, though you are a whale at rhyme, the
sacrifices you make to get it are calculated to drive all the
nine parts of speech into a lunatic asylum. As this poem is
the first brutal insult you have levelled at us, we won’t retali*
ate by quoting any of it “ Yeta Your bashed-up psalm
is duly to hand. The ideas and words are irreproachable,
and the metre and rhyme are nearly so, but we can’t afford
to print 18 verses so bland, milky, and grandmotherly as
this
“ ’Tis the prerogative of youth to play,
And sing and dance, and caper up and down;
Youth will have freedom, bar it as you may,
And pretty birds will flutter into town.”
This sort of stuff is as mild as a hair-parted-in-the-middle
curate. Moreover, it is not zoologically correct —the only
birds of importance that flutter in town are hens, parrots
and cockroaches “ Anon ” : In any case too long for The
Bulletin. In re issue as a pamphlet, write to a Sydney
printing firm “ F.C. M‘N.” : Your story about the de-
faulting policeman has several morals, and one of them is
that a policeman can bring a libel action just as well as any
other man. The most dangerous person whom a newspaper
can malign is he who doesn't know whether to plead guilty
or commence a libel action....“Freetrader” (Shoalhaven)
“Uni-equine” means simply “one-horse.” In the same way
“uni-asinine” would signify “one-ass.” The latter is a neat
and appropriate term which we have had freshly stuffed and
upholstered for use during the autumn....“ E. Warne ”:
How can you say that the Irish R.C. vote in the late N.S.W.
general election was solidly Protectionist in face of the fact
that at F. »et Sydney each of the four Freetrade candidates
was either nominated or seconded by a Roman Catholic ?....
“A White Man”: Thanks; already dealt with “John
M Donald” : Thanks for extract “ J.L." : If you can
prove that a priest goes in for the turf, and then takes up a
subscription among his faithful lambs to pay his losses at
hurdle-racing, you’d better tell his bishop. As a rule,
bishops are too fat to like hurdle-racing “E. Maisland”:
Yes, Positive Gin Roberts, and Comparative Ginger Clarke.
What’s the superlative? “ C.C.”: If the law can’t make a
man moral, it can make him dreadfully uncomfortable when
he is immoral *' Saladin ” : Too ludicrously bombastic
“ Hornsby”: None in Sydney. Write to editor Northern
Miner, Charters Towers “ Suva ”: The Fijian papers
don’t deal with grievances of any kind for fear of losing the
Government patronage. A free Press is no more possible in
a Crown colony than in Russia or Germany “Gertie”:
Thanks “ Common Sense” : As you indicate, the N.S.W.
annual military encampment simply means th.t the volun-
teers are to hold an expensive nine days’ picnic under the
alleged direction of a lot of incapables, their officers, who
now outnumber the privates by about 11 to 1. The
colony is three millions in debt, and so £200,000 extra, more
or less, won’t matter “Charles M” (Adelaide): A gor-
geous story “Thespis” (Maryborough): Already to hand
from a dozen quarters....” V.F.W.D.’'; Chinese idea clever.
Next week, probably “ A.C.” : We are glad the gentleman
is elected. It is to be hoped, however, that he will not try
to blow the froth off a glass of water when he feels thirsty.
“John Tarrant ” (Bourke): We can’t say for certain
whether it would be a libel to call him a “thing ” and a
“ bowelless hypocrite.” We wouldn’t advise you, however,
to say it publicly, but there can be no harm in going round
and proving the fact to a few intimate friends “Civis”:
We blame Deerhurst for having been so cowardly as (accord-
ing to his own admission in the box) to prejudice Sutton’s
case by bringing forward the fact that the latter had been
divorced from his wife —a matter which had nothing what-
ever to do with the point at issue. Mr. Duffy, Sutton’s
counsel, acted chivalrously in forbearing to cross-examine
the lord concerning private matters iWhich would have
affected Deerhurst’s character with the public....“ C.8.D.”:
No ; it is not true that Princess Louise intends to sue for
divorce from the Marquis of Lome. Their domestic rela-
tions are in no wise strained. Not a year passes but what|the
Princess and her luvin’ husband assemble and meet together
to discuss the weather and other matters of connubial interest.
..“E.C.D.”: You might call. .“Bushman” (Daintree River):
Held over.... “John Walsh” (Bowen, Q.): Sorry we did not
preserve the document, as we should have no hesitation
whatever in handing over a forgery to the person whose
signature was counterfeited “A.H.”: There will have to
be a minimum age for votes, and 21 is not too high..,.
“ T. J.P.”: Just patent your machine, and then write to
Hudson Bros., Sydney, and to John Buncle, Parkside Iron-
works, Melbourne....“D.G.M.G.”: Will deal with matter
next week...." W.M.”: Thanks for cuttings.


The keferee
Both Slaven and Dooley looked as if
they had made the most of their six weeks’ training
when they stepped into the ring at Larry Foley’s
on Thursday evening. The price of admission,
half-a-sovereign, was pretty well prohibitive to
the rough element, and all through the fight the
men received equal encouragement from the
orderly—if demonstrative —spectators. It was
said Dooley scaled a couple of pounds over 12st,
but he certainly did not look the weight, in con-
trast to Slaven, whose powerful and symmetrical
frame looked every ounce of the 13st. with whioh
he was credited. Slaven made the first lead, but
was countered heavily in the mouth by Dooley,
and no great damage was done till the call of
comers. Slaven had a bit the best of the second; but
in the third round the men came together, and
when they broke away after a heavy rally it was
seen Slaven was pretty well dead-beat. It was
here that Dooley, to appearanoes, threw away the
battle, for, although much the fresher man of the
two, he stood off, and allowed Slaven to spar for
wind. Slaven came up shaky for the fourth
round, but Dooley, making no attempt to go in
and finish him off, the Queenslander’s strength
and condition brought him round, when he
dropped Dooley with a happy-go-lucky round-
armer with the right. Dooley then proved re-
ceiver-general until the seventh round, when he
forced the fighting, and again took the lead, hut
he fell too weak to follow up the advantage, and
merely came up to receive punishment until the
tenth round, when Slaven fairly knocked him out.
Dooley stuck to his work until nature deserted
him, and upheld his reputation for “ game,” but
he fought with bad judgment, and should have
won or lost the battle in the fourth round.
...
Cricket appears to be about played out.
Lillywhite and company say they have lost money
by their last spec; the Melbourne Association
show up to the present a magnificent credit
balance of a fiver ; and the last Intercolonial
played in Sydney paid so badly that the ground
trustees had to forego their percentage to enable
the Association to cover expenses.
* * #
Private advices from England say that
football this season has complete possession of the
popular heart The same writer says, referring
to the probability of a team from Australia visit-
ing the old country, that financial success would
be assured in such matches as Australia v. Eng-
land, Scotland, Ireland, and Wales.
The public-house brawl between Barnes
and a Sydney cricketer formed the subject of a
cable from England. What are they giving us ?
...
Both in Victoria and N.S.W. the com-
mittees in connection with the Intercolonial 8-oar
race are in a muddle over the selection of their
crews. In Melbourne some of the men picked
for the Intercolonial want to row in the Nicholls
Cup fours on 16th April, to which the selection
people demur. In Sydney the selection committee
has come to grief over the picking. A crew was
proposed, not including George Seale and George
Robertson, and it is not to be wondered at that a
trio could not be found to agree to an eight which
did not include either of those names, but num-
bered Freeman, E. Gaden, and Higgs. Freeman,
the only likely man of the three, is a strapping fel-
low, and promises the makings of a tip-top oarsman,
buthehasscarcely had thoexperience to row inabig
race at such an early date, and a wait of another
year will improve both himself and the crew.
The two Georges, Seale and Robertson, should be
amongst the first picked for a truly representative
eight. Robertson rows in first-class form, and
has a good list of performances to show; while
Seale, by the lengthy string of winning brackets
to his name, has shown that he is an oarsman not
to be thrown lightly aside. He may not pull
in as pretty form as some of the others, but, as
shown in his boxing-matches, he is possessed of
phenomenal staying powers, and when the pretty
men are “ dead to the world,” Seale is putting in
his honest pound.
Mick Dooley was tendered a benefit by
Larry Foley on Saturday evening. The most
noticeable event was the right-hander with which
Jack Molloy brought “ Novice Jack” to grass— or
rather to pine.
# * *
Fred Wood, the crack English bicyclist,
now in Australia, upon hearing that the erst-
while American amateur bicyclists Rowe and
Hendee, had turned professionals, sent them the
following challenge :—“ See : ng that Rowe and
Hendee have become professionals, I will ride
either of them any distance, from one to twenty
miles, on any fair track, bar Springfield, for £2OO
aside ; or I will join in a sweepstakes with them
and Howell. I will allow either of them £5O for
expenses to ride in England, or take £5O to ride
in America. Or if they prefer to meet me on neu-
tral ground, I will allow them £75 for expenses to
ride me in Australia.”
Shrewsbury has been telling the irrepres-
sible interviewers that Victorian cricketers are
“ not at all equal to the Sydney men," at the pre-
sent moment. That was a good deal better than
laying all the responsibility of the professionals’
two defeats upon queer wickets. Shrewsbury
promises that his next season's team will be
stronger than the departing one.
The following church and totalisator dog-
fight item is from Grafton (N.S.W.) That
town, as per usual, wants money for a
cathedral and an organ, and the children of light
are adopting non-apostolic dodges to raise a
breeze Prominent among these are an Easter
festival with hornpipes, aerobatic performances, a
secular Punch and Judy, a Bruce auction, lottery,
dramatic performances, dancing, refreshments,
sinful footracing for worldly prizes, and other
promiscuous and accursed indulgences of the flesh,
and with this carnal programme before us we
want to know what the Church is coming
to? Echo was not back with an answer up to the
time of going to press.
* •
Says the London Bat :
“ There will be startling revelations concerning the horses
supposed to belong to a notable turfite. It seems that the
late Fred. Archer was a partner in them all, and, as under
the Jockey Club rule, all such partnerships must be regis-
tered at Weatherby s, the omission may occasion the dis-
qualification of the winner of more than one important
Autumn handicap.”
The Bat, at latest, was up to its neck in a big
libel case, brought against it by Ihe well-known
English horse-owner and trainer, Robert Peck,
for an article headed, “ Letters to Notable Sports-
men.” The following are a few of the tit-bits in
the article ;
“ A friend of mine, wishing the other day to describe a
thorough rogue, remarked, somewhat profanely, that he was
as ‘ hot as the hinges of hell.’ Of course Ido not attempt to
suggest that you are a thorough rogue. Heaven forbid ! No,
such word can possibly apply to a successful racing man who
owns good horses, and has not been warned off Newmarket
Heath. Yet that pregnant expression somehow or other re-
called you to my memory; for, assuming that there be a
door or gate to the infernal regions, its hinges must be hot
and close indeed. So are you ; hot in the sense that there is
no game upon the turf with which you are not familiar, no
move in the betting-ring that you are unacquainted with, no
methods—" method” is a safe word in these days of libel-
suits—that you have not, at one time or another, adopted in
the course of your highly prosperous career.”
In speaking of a transaction between Peck and
Lord Rosebery (whom the Bat describes as “ that
over-rated, Rothschild-bloated young politician”)
the paper says
“ Do not ruin him, just extract as much as you can in as
short a time as possible, and when he begins to grow sus-
picious, or to hang fire with his cheque-book, find some pre-
text for severing the connection without a row.”
The Englishmen had a melancholy wind-
up to their tour in Victoria. A three days’ match
against 15 of the E M.C.C. was played to bare
benches, and a two days’ flutter with 18 of Sand-
hurst couldn’t have put much into the exchequer.
The professionals have a fair right to eomplain of
MR. CHARLES DAVIS.
The Sydney Quarterly Magazine begins its fourth year
of existence with the current March number. We are pleased
to learn that its prospects are steadily improving, inasmuch
as to chronicle the reverse would be equivalent to a falsifica-
tion of the old proverb, “ Fortune favours the brave.’ For
its first year of life it was managed by a club ; but at the
expiration of that time it was taken up in ariiculo mortis by
one of the members- Mr. Charles Davis, solicitor, of this
city, whose portrait is attached to this sketch, by whom it
has been conducted ever since. Among the principal con-
tributors may be mentioned Mr. Henry George, of New
York, author of “Progress and Poverty Professor Phil.
Robinson ; Mr. Ogilvie, of Inverquharity, Tasmania ; Hector
A. Stuart, (“Caliban ”)poetof San Francisco; Henry Halloran,
C.M.G. ; Rev. Dr. Jefferis, Rev. William Martin, the late
Dr. Brereton, Mr. G. H. Reid, Mr. B. R. Wise, Mr. W. H.
Huntingdon (History), Mr. Charles De Boos (Biography), and
others. The different numbers vary considerably in literary
excellence, but altogether the Magazine is a plucky and
creditable venture, and deserves support. It is published by
Turner and Henderson, Sydney, at the moderate price of one
shilling. The admirable History of N.S.W., which is
carried through the numbers, ought alone to make it worth
supporting.
the sulkiness of the Cabbage Garden public. Their
tail is evidently down, for while some 8000 rolled
up to a match between two junior clubs, only a
few dozens —mainly Englishmen—patronised the
International affair. Smokers v. Non-Smokers
was another frost in the matter of attendance,
and to the apathy of the locals may be attributed
the tall scoring in all these last matches. Bowlers
and fielders can’t be expected to put any devil
into their work for the amusement of fifty specta-
tors. Australian Elevens in England have made
money because the public came freely in the ex-
pectation of seeing them win. To prosper in Vic-
toria a visiting team musn’t win, apparently. It
is long odds that the second-rate amateurs im-
ported by the Melbourne Club next season, will
draw better gates than Shrewsbury’s crowd of
finished artists. When the amateurs are licked
they will be described as the “ cream of English
cricketers,” and the Argus will beat the drum.
* * *
We wonder how Clarke, the “ champion
sprinter,” likes the libels on his fair fame con-
tained in the London Referee of 6th Feb. 1
* * *
In a Sydney daily we find the following
advertisement :
“ One bay gelding, 17 heads, suitable for brewer or con-
tractor, a very superior horse of his class.”
Read that again. “Of his class ! ” Then a horse
with seventeen heads doesn’t stand alone ! We
won’t bay that horse. A gee-gee with a healthy
appetite and one head does us. In our journalistic
capacity we couldn’t keep 34 sets of teeth going
for more than two minutes.
• » *
After Cannon got such a gruelling from
Connor, the wrestling world awoke to the fact
that the American has never done anything to
speak of since his arrival here. Miller was only
knocked out by the orthodox acoident, and even
old Donald Dinnie held his own in a “ seven-style.”
Nevertheless, the know alls eagerly laid 6 to 4 on
Cannon and dropped their brass. Professional
wrestlers are like professional oarsman—splendid
judges of relative form after the event.
* * *
The mare, Beeswing, must have a nice bit
of form. In the Albury Cup, receiving 161 b.
from Abuse, she easily defeated the Caulfield
winner, and in the St. Patrick’s Handicap she
romped away from the same animal at a difference
of 41b only.
Donald Dinnie summoned a lady publican
for threatening to hit him with an axe. The braw
Scot explained to the Bench that he “ didn’t fear
harm from any man or woman,” but objected to
meat-axes. The charge was dismissed, and bang
went three guineas costs, much to Donald’s dis-
gust. By the way, his old athletic friend and
partner, Flemming, died a few days ago.
How is it that military officers attached
to the N.S.W. reserves, who draw large “ screws,”
are allowed to accept private situations and
shunt their military duties on to their adjutants ?
The French papers are making a great
pother about a man who can render himself in-
sensible to feeling at will. They can see thou-
sands of such men kicking around as Irish land-
lords.
Bertrand the murderer wishes to contra-
dict the rumour lately circulated to the effect that
he once more breathes the glorious oxygen of
liberty. He is at present in Maitland gaol, and
Kinder thinks he is likely to stay there.
Messrs. Kerry and Jones, of 508, George
street, Sydney, are making a most excellent set of
portraits of the members of the present N.S.W.
Assembly. They had better hurry the work
along, as the new Parliament won’t keep long.
The N.S.W. Minister for Justice has
struck a streak of bad luck at the very outset of
his career. He has promised to save £12,000
annually by abolishing assistant clerks of petty
sessions, but a vigorous search through the latest
available blue-books leaves a painful impression
that all the assistant petty gentlemen throughout
the colony only receive a total of some £4OOO
yearly. Where the other £BOOO is to be saved is a
dark and inscrutable mystery.
The very latest from Amurker :
“A very queer case—that of Pye versus Pye— was called in
aN Y. court. It was a divorce suit, and the evidence wert
to show the kissing habit is very easy to acquire and more
difficult to shake off than the opium or cocaine habit From
the evidence it appears that Mr. Tompkins, one of the boarders
at the Pye mansion, drifted into the habit of kissing Mrs
Pye. In fact, it is very little exaggeration to say that he be-
came a chronic Pye-biter. They became so brazen that their
kisses were suggestive of the ringing of a patent gong In
the Pye family the kissing seems to have been almost as per-
sistent and promiscuous as that to which the witnessestes-
tihedin the Beecher case. Mr. Dempsey, who boarded at
the Pye house, was put on the stand and examined by a
Lawyer . Did you ever see Tompkins kiss Mrs
Pye ? Witness : Lots of times, and when I didn't see him
I heard him. There was a plaintive, sobbing gurgle about it,
that reminded one of the exhaust of a bath-tub. It could be
heard all over the house'Lawyer: ‘When did Tompkins kiss
Mrs. Pye ? Witness : Whenever he had a chance, but I
noticed he didn t kiss her. when he was down town The
only time when he didn't kiss her was when he was not
& ere 'T,-l“n er: Wjjo did kiss her, then ?' Witness : ■ I
dld ', l A Ik J ed h ? r J* ut tle myself.' Lawyer : ' Oh, you did, did
J2H- Lid not Mr Pye object to you kissing his wife’ 1
Witness : No. Why should he? I didn’t object to his
kissing her : why should he object to my kissing her ’ There
was nothing objectionable about it; it was a mere friendly
salutation. Lawyer: Did you ever see Mrs. Pye kiss Mr.
Pye . Witness : No, but she may have done so when none '
of us boarders were around. She is a sly piece.’ Lawyer •
How did you come to kiss Mrs. Pye?' Witness: 'Put mv
arms around her neck and kissed her in the usual way ’
Lawyer: Did she ask you to do so?' Witness: ‘Well, I
noticed that no matter how many times she and Tompkins
kissed before he went out, she never got enough to last until
he came back, for as he opened the door they were at it
again, so when he was away I kissed her more as a matter of
accommodation than anything else.’ Lawyer : ■ Where was
• r-iv £ ye ‘ Witness: Oh, he was nowhere.’ Lawyer •
That s enough. You can step down ’ ”
Some startling facts have come out con-
cerning Mr. William Stanley, the heroic individual
on whose identiflcatory evidence four boys were
hanged, in the Mount Rennie case. The editors
of the Sydney daily newspapers are no doubt
thoroughly cognisant of the facts to which we
allude, and so, of course, are the authorities of
the fund raised in recognition of Mr. Stanley’s
self-narrated gallantry-a fund which, by the way
is for unstated reasons, now being withheld
from the intended beneftciaire. Yet these
facts have been deliberately and maliciously
suppressed by the daily newspapers-possibly at
the instigation of individuals who don't like to
have to eat their words in public The Mount
Rennie prisoners were convicted on the evidence
of a street-walker, a thief, and the-now-very-
much-absent Mr. Stanley ; and we wonder how
the gushing individuals, who but a few weeks
ago described Mr. Stanley as “worthy of the
LrnTr T B ’". n ° W lik6 their Principal
hero . In the interests of justice, The Bul-
letin challenges Mayor Riley 0 r Sir Alfred
Stephen to publicly state all that has come to his
or their knowledge concerning Stanley. It is of
course, impossible to bring to life the miserable
who have been hanged, but as several of the boys
sentenced to death at the same time as the exe-
cuted prisoners are now suffering life-imprison-
ment, it is well that anything casting a light on
the value of the evidence given at the so-called
trial should be brought before the public. It will
make Governor Carington very ill indeed if he
posts himself up in this affair.
Pa, she said coaxingly, “1 do wish you
would lend me your lovely red nose to paint my
cheeks wffh. And he went forth and painted
the whole town red.
Mike, of Melbourne, writes to his pal
William, at Woolloomooloo.
Melbourne, March 13th, 1887.
BUI, my pippin’, I thort I was knowin’
And twigged wot was wot, don’t yer see,
When I used to be always a-blowing’
That Horstralia’s the Land o’ the Free ;
I’ve 'erd you remark as you ranted
A lot of nonsensercal bosh—
But, BiU, what I said I've recanted,
I find my old notions won't wosh.
D’yer guess why I'm writin’, my rorty ?
It’s alor g of that bloomin’ assorlt
On a Hade der KoDg, noble an’ ’orty,
As I has to confess to my forlt,
Since the fakement of Deerhurst v. Sutton
It’s clearer than mud, BUI, to me
That our lors isn’t worth a brass button
And this ’ere aint the Land o’ the Free.
But Sutton’s a “ book,” and at bettin’
He won a snug bit from the Hade,
Who’d a bloo-blooded trick of forgettin’
That his credertor hadn’t been pade ;
Them swells, BUI, is bad ’uns to settle,'
And he cursed just a few, did his Nibs,
So the “ booky ” got fair on his mettle
By the time he ’ad fingered the dibs.
They’d a row arter that (an’ no wunder,
If a cove as owed munny to us
Got sorcy and d d us, by thunder',
Just wouldn’t we sit on the cuss),
The lord put 'is hand on the sholder
Of the “ book ” at tome restyrong place,
And the “book,” being smarter and bolder,
Wiped 'his hand on the toffs pritty face.
Now, BUI, these ’ere bettin’ men’s quarrels
Are things as occur hevry day
(For the “ sports" doesn’t go in for “ morals ”
Cept in quite a perfeshonal way)
So this clout should ’ave ended the bother,
But his lorship—a iammy young cub,
An’ that's strate—he complained of the other,
An’ got ’im hexpelled from his club.
Well, in course, Bob was mad as a 'atter,
An’ thort he’d appeal to the lor,
To see what that made o’ the matter
It left ’im worse orf than before ;
Some o them as sat on the kermittee
Of the club may be tode-eatin’ sneaks—
But for “ luvin’ a lord” (more’s the pity)
They isn’t a patch on the beaks.
The way as they coddled the lord, Bill,
Was enuff to make ’onest men sick—
But as for the “ bookey,” my word, Bill,
They polished orf 'im pritty quick ;
“ F °“rteen days and no line,” says the cbareman
(The Bench, s help my taters ! was packt,
And the biz. warn’t a bit on the square, man—
r.Which is known for a posertive fact).
When a swell, as hain’t heager to settle,
And a bookmaker gets in a shine,
It’s a case o’ the pot and the kettle,
To be met with a forty-bob fine;
So when Sutton was sentenced to prisen,
And the masher dismissed with a smile
Well, no wonder my dander was risen,
For I caUs it a lickspittle trile.
So that’s why I admit I was skitiu’
When I said we was “ free ” and that rot—
An I puts it down planely in writin’
That we're only a toff-ridden lot ;
What does fellers like you, Bill, and I count
In them sassiety magerstrates’ sight,
As kompared with a simperin’ Vicount?
Are we ekals, dear William ? Not quite.
Derned “fashun’s” a-forgin’ the fetters
For us plebean beggers to wear—
We shall soon ’ave to bow to our betters,
As chaps do in Ingland, I hear;
When the Lor don’t put men on a level,
But truckles to dandyfied “ nobs ”
Why, the country is gone to the devel,
An’ us free-born Horstralians is snobs.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Last Saturday
there wag, appar-
ently, a suddenand
powerful revival in
Sydney theatrical biz., and a
banner with the strange device
“Standing Room Only” was
hung out in several places of
amusement. When necessity
arises, we have not the least
objection to stand, but we write
this as a solemn warning to the
man who stood in front of us He was nearly six
feet high and about four feet across and he smelt
of something he had been washing his dinner down
with. At critical moments he sighed like a blast
furnace, and when anything touching took place
the wail of a lost soul was not a circumstance
compared to the groan he uttered. By some
atrociously bad luck this man stood up just ahead
of us at two theatres in one night. We took a
plan of his back view the second time, also a
sketch of his breath ; when we meet again we will
harpoon him without remorse.
-X- -K- -K-
The custom of wearing the human hat in
bed is one which has a terribly deteriorating in-
fluence on the understanding, and when Messrs.
Conquest and Merritt wrote the “Saven Sins”
they obviously did it in bed, and with their hats
on. Consequently the play—now running at Syd-
ney Royal Standard—is mixed up like a heavenly
voice in a fog, and a great moral lesson which the
authors intended to shoot into the copious ear of
the public is partly lost Five out of the seven
sins have a high old time all through the play, and
two of the worst of them get rich, whi e the one
solitary virtue does seven years in gaol and has
brain fever and chloroform and is nearly thrown
down a well, and at last comes out fatherless and
without a cent and is forced to provide for her
future by marrying one of the sins. This may le
the dramatists’ idea of encouraging virtue, but our
own candid opinion is that the blind girl who
manipulates the scales of eternal Justice must be
insane to allow of such goings on. The
two unfortunates out of the wicked seven are
Avarice, who is stabbed and otherwise rendered
a corpse, and Cruelty, who escapes out of the
window and shins down a water-pipe, leaving
Faith in a hole. Outside he is bailed up by
Intemperance, but he jumps on this sin and throws
him into the briny Atlantic. Cruelty, as we learn,
has been in trouble several times before for ill-
using a horse and beating his wife to death, and
at la3t he resolves to get rid of his daughter
(Faith) when that long-suffering lady emerges
from the seclusion of the jug. The way he sets
about it makes us regard him as an ass.
He walks into a railway station carrying
a grown-up and stunned female in his arms, and,
hiring a special train, he is presently swallowed up
in a darkness so dense that a barrow load of black
cats would make a white mark on it. Meanwhile
along the road Pride, in the shape of Inspector
Peacock Sleuth, is driving at a frenzied pace to
keep him in sight, and though Cruelty gets ahead
his enemy is close on his heels. Faith, too, gains
a little time by reviving and arguing a knotty
point with an adze, and ultimately a
conglomeration of sins in the shape of
Pride, Rage, and Intemperance straddle into the
premises, and Cruelty is bowled out. There are
a lot of good points in the drama, hut the lesson
it teaches will induce many a respectable youth
to give up honesty and try to curee for a living,
and the pleasant times which some of the bad
characters seem to enjoy make us almost wish wa
were a sin ourselves. There was some ve T y fine
scenery in the “Seven Sins,” and Messrs. Dam-
pier, Boothman, Baker, Stoneham, and Lesion, as
five different kinds of cussedness, acted in very
good style. So did Miss Dampier as the one vir-
tuous character, but she was almost lost among
so much perverted wickedness.
## # #
“Un Ballo in Maschera ” is an opera
that requires a good deal of energy on the part of
the orchestra, but the musicians at Sydney Royal
proved themselves fully equal to the task. For
our own part we have a preference for something
slow and sure, and when we start to do execution
on the piano we prefer to claw each note in the
score with our left hand, and while we keep our
finger on it to make sure it won’t run away
we prospect along the keyboard with our right.
When we find the note there we generally give it
a thump that knocks it senseless and then come
back to the score in search of something fr- sh to
catch hold of. We have gained a lot of popularn y
by this style of performance, but unfortunately it is
rather deliberate for operatic purposes. These
glittering generalities, however, are a digression,
and have nothing to do with the subject. “Un
Ballo in Maschei a ” is an opera that gets aloDg
pretty well without bothering about places or
dates—it travels, in fact, on its own hook, and is
quite fitted to do so. The music is magnificent,
and the words in which Verdi tells his story are
worthy of it; they lose a lot of their poetic fire in
the process of translation, but the same fate a' tends
all Verdi’s compositions. Signora Angelina Taglia-
via makes her first appearance in Sydney in the part
of the heroine Amelia, a lady who is discovered
by her husband standing under a gallows at mid-
night, and the sweet and powerful voice which
she hriogs along with her is certain to make her
a favourite. Signorina Alice Rebottaro figures in
blue tights as 03car, a page, her dainty figure and
charming voice being as attractive as ever ; and
Signorina Cavalleri is very successful as the
witch Ulrica. Signor Buzzi strikes a vast supply
of oil in the part of Samuelo the conspirator, and
Signor Santinelii is an excellent Ricardo. Next
Saturday, “Faust” is to be produced, and a
crowded house should be the result.
We always look just as we do now when
we are aflicted with profound grief, and our
present aspect is chiefly owing to the “ Irish De-
tective,” at Sydney Opera House. The piece is
one of which this dark terrestrial ball has had
pretty nearly enough ; it has had a good long run,
and there is absolutely nothing in it excepting
Mr. Grattan Riggs—and misery. After three
hours of it we feel disposed to laugh coldly and
inconsiderately at the sultry cove who wrote the
drama, and then go home and soak our head, and
float our powerful mind in any nourishment with
a head on it that promises to afford relief and for-
getfulness. Mr. Riggs’ character acting is cer-
tainly admirable, but it is as difficult for one man
to hold up a drama as for one cantankerous, un-
certificated insolvent to hold up the freetrade
Government of N.S.W., and the rest of the
characters have nothing to do that is calculated to
cheer the spectator. Mr. F. C. Appleton plays
the part of a mild youDg man who is falsely ac-
cused of committing murder, whereas he wouldn’t
do such a thing, not even to be made postmaster,
and he makes some remarks in gaol that lead us
to believe he is as calm amid his troubles as an
ancient martyr clinging to a sea-washed rock.
Mr. Riggs, as the detective, takes this
interesting youDg man’s case in hand, and starts
out detecting at nine o’clock the tame evening.
He roars outside the door and spits on his hands,
and the campaign is fairly inaugurated. From
this point the intelligent officer, armed with a
sheet of window-glass and a cat pie, and fixed up
in six different disguises, wades on steadily to
victory, and, through the stupidity of a doctor
whose csllar is full of pickled cadavers and human
bones, the angel of justice is at last enabled to get
her head out of the slash and take stock of the
scene. From this brief resume of the facts, any-
body who is unacquainted with the drama should be
able to gather a tolerably
comprehensive idea of
the plot. Mr. Grattan
Riggs’ actiDg was really
excellent throughout,and
next to him came Mr.
Denbigh Newton as Dr.
Mildmay, Mr. Frank
Gerald as Adolphus
Tiverton, and Miss Addie
Capper as Jessie. “ The
Irish Detective,” we be-
lieve, is to go aheai at the
Opera House till the bot-
tom falls out.
** * *
It was raining heav-
ily on Monday night.
This item of news is
not strictly original, but
it may serve to account
for anything uncouth in
our aspect when we
lashed our boots to their
moorings and turned out
to slog with the elements
in the vicinity of Sydney
Criterion. Lnfortunately,
however, “ Esmeralda,”
which forms the bill of
lading at this theatre,
proved, on close inspec-
tion, to be hardly worth
the trouble and profanity
we had spentoverit For
three weary hours the
audience waited for a
bright idea to rise in the
east and the rise never
came ; it was one dead
level of Sunday-school
pathos all through, and
had it not been f>r the
facilities provided for
drowning our speaking
countenance in wine be-
t ween the acts, the effect
upon our constitution
might have been serious.
“ Esmeralda,” the
heroine of the story, is
a pretty American girl
brought up in the coon-
haunted wilds of North Carolina. She has an
awful, raging, flinty ma, and a down-trodden,
henpecked pa, the latter, as far as we can learn,
being engaged on a pilgrimage to the heavenly
diggings to get out of the way of the she-pirate
whom in his younger and less rheumatic days he
had so rashly taken for better or worse. When a
sudden stroke of fortune descends on thi3 family,
Esmeralda and the crushed paternal worm are
dragged off to Paris, where the rocky old woman
goes into low-cut dresses and exhibits a great
sample of yellow bosom carefully culti-
vated in the solitudes of Carolina. Some
few months later, however, the newly-acquired
fortune bursts up, and then the hag covers up a
weather-beaten chest in which the public take 3
no fur. her interest, and invokes her solid ankles
to carry her back to her old home. The return
journey is a saddened procession of three—the
boss hymaa snorting with rage and grief in the
van, while the old man and Esmeralda, who never
quite enjoyed their new life, indulge in subdued
chuckles behind. Meanwhile Esmeralda's old
lover, whose worldly possessions consisted, in the
first act, of a slab of rocky territory, producing
one primeval fossil to the square mile, has become
rich in his turn, and he tells the old woman dis-
dainfully that she can have as much of his money
as she de-ires, and can spend the rest of her
affluent existence in turning somersaults in the
backyard if she wants to.
Miss Myra Kemble played Esmeralda.
She did about as much as any living actress could
for the character, but li e with the Yankee girl is
a perpetual Grecian bend, and she is too limp to
be charming Mr. Craven was pretty good as
Esmeralda’s sweetheart, and so was Mr. Carey as
Estabrook. The performance concluded with
Madame Franzmi’s bicycle tricks, which were
wonderful in their cleverness ; while Onzalo, the
Demon of the Air, gave promise also of something
remarkable, only his ropes got mixed and he
nearly ended in sudden death. His performance,
however, has since gone smoothly and brilliantly.
Dion Boucicault’s “ Long Strike ” is being
played at Sydney Gaiety in a style which is half-
way between very bad and worse. Still, there are
some redeeming features in the affair, and the
spectator does not feel that desire to swallow
poison and convulse himself to death which in-
variably seized him when “ Crime ” occupied the
boards. The central incident, as in almost all
Dion’s plays, is a murder, Jane Learoyd, the
daughter of a cranky and horny-handed son of
toil, having gone to spoon with a swell in a right-
of-way unconscious of the fact that her deranged
and irresponsible pa was keeping his bloodshot
eye on the circumstance. It is only when the
swell’s brains become a suitable subject to be
scooped up and put in a paper bag that she sees
the point of the joke. Miss Helen Vivian plays
the part of Jane, and we are afraid this is likely to
sink her lower in public estimation than anything
that has happened to her yet. When she tries to
be artless and trusting she only succeeds in being
tootsy-pootsy on a large scale, and her efforts at
girlish tenderness result in a crushed turtle,
chastened elephant, mild-curatecum-hyrena-in-re-
duced-circumstances sort of effect which is very
distressing. Mr. Newton Griffiths,on theotherhand,
makes a good lunatic. He always makes a strik-
ing lunatic, and on Monday night he was evi-
dently doing his best with his part as the deranged
pa. and he made a really remarkable lunatic. Mr.
Arthur Vivian was cast as a comic lawyer, and
showed abilities with which few had previously
credited him. The part was one that suited him,
and his delineation of it was really praiseworthy.
Mr. James Thynne, as a sailor who called a port-
hole a “window,” and then fell overboard, was
also a redeeming feature, but we would call upon
the red right arm of the law to look after the rest
of the company and do something with them
before it is too late. The “ Long Strike,” we be-
lieve, ends well, but just as it was getting near
the finish Jane Learoyd came on weeping, and we
went out and ran two miles in a north-easterly
direction without stopping. When we reached
home by a circuitous route it was 3 a.m , and we
had got our feet wet.
## # *
An afternoon performance for the benefit
of Signor Agrati will be given at Sydney Royal
on Saturday. The programme consists of the
mad scene from “Lucia” by the leading mem-
bers, chorus, and orchestra of the Italian Opera
Company, and the comedy, “ Handy Andy,” by
Mr. Grattan Riggs and his company. Signor
Agrati has been connected with amusements in
*e
COn|£ ouj
uojf odn (jy
the colonies for 15 years ; he introduced
ChiariDi’s Circus and Cooper and Bailey's
entertainment, and he also piloted Miss
Genevieve Ward and other favourites. His
last venture at Sydney Academy, however, has
been a financial failure, though it certainly de-
served better fortune, and his professional friends
have therefore resolved to give practical ex-
pression to their sympathy.
## * *
“ Herculean ” is the new word at Sydney
Alhambra. There is Sali, the herculean heavy-
weight lifter ; Easton, herculean banjoist ; and
Keenan, Cowan, and the rest of the company, all
herculean also. The receipts are pretty herculean
into the bargain.
** # #
Scone (N.S.W.) boasts of a blind musician
who, thanks to his infirmity, has just missed
making his mark in the world. Mr. W. H.
Bramble, who now lives by piano and violin
tuition in a little country town, has talents that
should have ensured him better fortune and with
the gift of sight he might possibly have become
famous. There is a good deal of the toss up ele-
ment in life at the best.
At the time of writing, George Darrell is
said to be much better.
-It -K- -K- -H-.
The Alexandra Theatre, Melbourne, had
a roaring St. Patrick’s night. Mr. Grattan Riggs,
for this occasion only, took the house in hand, and
put up “ Arrah-na-Pogue” and “O'Toole's Castle.”
From floor to ceding the bould sons of Erin were
packed liked sardines in a box, and “ Ihe Wear-
ing of the Green ” fetched a shout that would have
gladdened the Grand Old Man, and turned the cheek
of proud Salisbury pale, if they had happened to
look in. In a general way, though, the Alexandra is
tenantless, desolate. It is a big white elephant,
eating its head off at Mr. Joubert’s expense.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal Miss Julia Simmons,
as Ariel in “ The Tempest,” cnrvets round in mid-
air, astride a great mouldy bat like two bulloek-
hides strapped to a clothes-horse. Evidently this
fiery brute is yet unbroken to the saddle. The
other night it started snorting and buck-jumping,
and Julia was thrown on to the stage a trifling
distance of nine feet. She took it all in good
part, and was round again on the untamed vam-
pire before some sensitive creatures in the circle
had been fanned and sal-volatiled into conscious-
ness.
“ Ruddy Gore,” the name of Gilbert and
Sullivan’s newest opera, is a title calculated to
give at first blush quite an uneasy feeling to any
member of the Y. M. C. A. A pious party the other
day wrote to Gilbert asking what he meant by
using such a vulgar title. “ Ruddy Gore,” he
complained to the librettist, “ practically signifies
the same as—we’ll use no stronger word —‘ san-
guinary gore.' ” Gilbert flattened his correspon-
dent out in one act. “ The two ideas,” wrote
W.S , “are entirely distinct. As, for example, if
I were to refer to your ruddy cheek, the expression
would convey an entirely different meaning from
that attached to the very commonly-used expres-
sion which I consider describes the liberty you
took in thus writing to me.”
** # #
Modjeska is to visit Australia. Recently,
during a performance of some play in which she
took a very tragic part, a scene occurred wherein
she had to throw herself on a sofa in a
paroxysm of grief and despair, her lover flinging
himself at her feet. The audience were spell-
bound by the pathos and intensity of the scene,
when those near the front of the theatre were
electrified by the actress pausicg in her tragedy
for a second and audibly and sharply observing to
her kneeling fellow-actor : “ Tam you I ged ov
my tress !”—and then calmly resuming her speech
## # #
The wife of Edward Solomon, composer of
“Billee Taylor,” has contented herself with
divorce in lieu of the prosecution for bigamy in-
stituted and dropped some time ago.
There has been little change in the con-
dition of Melbourne shov.s during the past week.
Brough and Boucicault announce the near disso-
lution of their extravaganza season, and the thin
end of the comedy wedge was introduced on
Saturday, when “Vice Versa” was jammed in
among the “ Forty Thieve®.” “Vice Versa” is a
charming little thiDg, so far as it goes, and the
Dulcie Grimstone of Miss Boucicault —in short
skirts and auburn tresses—is a more charming
little thing still. At the Royal a certain amount
of sober success keeps “ The Tempest ” howling
until George Rignold, having amply supped off
the horrors of Caliban, is prepared to enjoy “A
Midsummer Night’s Dream.” " Barbour Lights ”
show no signs of going out at the Princess’s, and
the new star, Miss Isabel Morris, rises higher in
the heavens as the days do shorter grow. The
public appear to find this melodrama nice, although
it is distinctly nauli-c al. Having laughed con-
sumedly at our own joke, we will now go on to
mention that Miss Minnie Palmer keeps the little
Biiou satisfactorily filled, but “ The Schoolmis-
tress” will shortly retire in favour of “a domestic
comedy-drama, written expressly for Our Sweet-
heart.” Ihe privileged author, we guess, has
built up his story upon hintB supplied by Miss
Palmer’s own particular milliner and dressmaker.
-K- jt -K-
For the first time in the course of a
triumphant career the great Gilbert and
Sullivan have received a modicum of adverse
criticism. The Bat states that at the close of
“Ruddy Gore” “there were some faint boos
amongst the general applause.” The “faint
boos ” were directed solely at the librettist, who is
accused of slumming his part of the contract.
** * *
We are informed on good authority that
Johnny Solomon owed his grog-license at Sydney
Criterion to the exertions of Dr. Jefferis. The
reverend gentleman, as everybody knows, runs the
saloon—we mean the church—next door, and the
bench were unanimously of opinion that any man
who heard him preach would require a cool drink
immediately thereafter.
** * *
Bland Holt was a passenger by the Ormuz.
** * *
Forepaugh, the showman, owns a “ four-
legged lady ’■ and the same is now being sued for
divorce. Her husband deposes and alleges that
two cold feet planted in the small of his back are
about all he can stand Four, he says, are calcu-
lated to ruin the constitution of a horse.
** * *
The New York News Letter of Bth Janu-
ary contains some howling libels on Emelie Mel-
ville and Verdi. The issue in question likewise
contains some matter calculated to be of deep
interest to Mr. Budd, solicitor, of Melbourne.
** * *
Two little women discussing a burlesque
artiste. No. 1, (loq) : “She is a spiteful cat,
and thinks of nothing but what she is going to
wear.” “ Humph !” snapped the other, “if that’s
.11 she thinks about it's precious little !"
w* * *
Thomas W. Terry, who says he is a
brother of Miss Ellen Terry, has been committed
for trial at Sydney on three charges of obtaining
money by means of valueless cheques.
Prominent Actress : “ You have no doubt
read Miss D.’s article, ‘ls the Stage Immoral?’
Tell me your own opinion on the subject.” Re-
tired Sister : “ Really, I could not say ; you know
I have not been on the stage for some years, and it
may have changed.”
## # #
A compositor on a religious paper died a
violent death the day before Christmas. The
editor wrote. “Old Gifts in New Lights,” and it
appeared in print, “Old Girls in New Tights.”
** * *
Annie Mayor is in New York, and has
been engaged by Mr. A. M. Palmer as the under-
study for Mrs, Agnes Booth Schoeffel in the part
of Mrs. Ralston (“Jim the Penman.”).
## # *
Bill Holloway and 00. were at latest play-
ing “ Romeo and Juliet ”at Hobart. One Tas-
manian writer pms it thus“ No woman is
qualified to act the part of Juliet until she is too
old to look it, but in Miss Jenyns we have the
youth and the genius combined, and she is well
supported. Romeo, if a shade too mature, is gal-
lant and brave.” “ A shade too mature ”is good.
“ Gallant and brave ” is simply immense.
The latest American theatrical puff:
” Miss M‘Whittington is certainly beautiful, either on the
stage or off it. In the Fisher's Hornpipe her limbs are epic
and cause one to dream of heaven ; her arms, to the shoulde
unadorned, are of more than earthly mould ; her face brings
back Byron’s most- lascivious pictures, and—but we remember
her husband only paid for four lines."
## # #
One of the clergy has just declared the
ballet to be “ inexcusably fleshy.” The reverend
gentleman’s knowledge of the ballet is superficial.
It is not exactly “ fleshy,” it is inexcusably “ saw-
dusty.”
** # *
The creditors of a certain erstwhile wealthy
English nobleman who recently embarked, but did
not shine, in theatrical speculation, have been
offered a composition of half-a-crown in the pound
on their debts 1
■K* -K- -K- -it
Patti, we read, never takes sweets, pies,
cakes, puddings, gravies, rich sauces, salads, or
champagne. She is never permitted to touch any-
thing which will interfere with her complexion,
her figure, or her voice. She is bathed in distilled
water of an exact temperature every morning,
and anointed all over with some sort of sub-
limated unguent every night. She dce3 not speak
aloud in the day, rarely sings till supper-time, and all
harassing care is withheld from her. And yet
people wonder at the secret of her perpetual
beauty. These are the secrets.


Pepper
And
Salt
Jubilee continues to break out in spots,
and the Melbourne Benevolent Asylum has got it
bad. That joint-stock Samaritan and its ass,
however, are going for a dirt-cheap celebration;
they have resolved to ask permission of the Loard’s
Anointed to put the word “Royal” before their
name, and it is calculated that the poor old
wheezing paralytic inmates will feel a heap better
when this event comes off. Even the crusts and
gruel will go down nicer, there will be a finer
flavour about the pump beverage, and when the
paupers have time to fully realise where they are
they will feel as jolly as a pig which has become
unsober on grain from a brewery. But there was
a deal of trouble in the committee before the
matter was fixed up. A bulgy-browed pelican
named Smith started it—and, by way of paren-
thesis, we would remark that, as the Smiths are,
next to the Blobses, tlje humblest of the Caucasian
race, they really shouldn’t shove themselves for-
ward so much—but while he was dilating on the
tooness of the sweet and succulent wherefore six
men were screaming at him across the table and
telling him not to make such a shrill donkey of
himself. Smith said these men were 4 Disloyal,”
and, as traitors, ought to be split open with an axe,
or something, whereupon he was called a “ laugh-
ing stock,” and told he was unfit to be a member
of any well-dressed committee. A whisky-bottle
was passing round all this time which helped to
keep the charitable institution in full blast, anc:
ultimately it was resolved by the casting-vote ol !
the chairman that the paupers should have their
Jubilee. The meeting then, we are glad to notice,
44 broke up in disorder,” which is possibly a mild
way of saying that the members carried each
other out by the hair.
* * *
A French philosopher has let his fellow-
creatures into the secret of studying charac-
ter by the top-note of the guffaw. Victor
Hugo wrote about “The Man who laughs”—
this other Frenchman tells us how he laughs and
why he does it in particular ways. “ Persons who
laugh with the sound of A in father are frank and
loyal, fond of noise and movement, and frequently
of a versatile and changeable character. Those
who laugh with the sound of A in ape are phlegm-
atic, with a turn towards melancholia. The laugh
in E is that of children, and of adults who are
simple, pliant, timid, and irresolute. The laugh
in 0 signifies generosity and robust boldness. Look
out for those who laugh in U, because they are
misanthropes.” These are the sort of facts which
ought to be photographed on the mind in a dog-
gerel rhyme, of the “Thirty days hath Septem-
ber” pattern. We put the job in the hands of a
hollow-eyed bard, who does obituary verses for
the Protestant Standard, and the creature has
just reeled in with his copy—
A touching story of cruelty to animals has
just come to hand. It seems that once upon a
time the Prince of Wales received something
handsome in the way of diamonds from an Indian
Princess. With the open-handed generosity of
his race, Bertie recompensed his swarthy ‘ ‘ mash "
with a copy of the Queen’s “ earliest literary
efforts.” So impressed was the Princess by the
magnificence of “ Royal Rumblings,” or whatever
the book was called, that she chartered a special
elephant to carry it about with her on Sundays
and other special occasions. Think of that. Now,
we don’t blame Bertie for accepting the diamonds,
because there are plenty of girls to give those sort
of things to, doncherknow. But we do think he
should have protested against the degradation of
that elephant, if only out of compliment to his
old namesake, Jumbo—
It is now some nine months since Mr.
Levy, of Wellington (N.Z.), disappeared, and the
incident is almost as dead as Julius Csesar. He
was a highly-respected baritone teetotaller, and
there were a lot of rumours about him, so when
the subject came up people only gave a knowing
smile that ranged from an open carpet bag to a
railway-arch, and said he was a sly dawg. Mr.
Levy has now returned, however, with a benign
expression on his face that could be cut into
chunks with a dull axe, and he has explained. It
seems that he was walking home as usual on the
night of; his disappearance when all recollection
suddenly left him ; he may have been transformed
into a bear or a goat for all he know 3 to the con-
trary, and he didn’t wake up for about eight
months. When he did wake he found himself in
Sydney, and went home again He had written
letters to his wife in the interval, but he didn’t
know he had done it. How his coin and his boots
held out, how he got his hair cut, and how he
managed to keep the barmaids from finding out
his insensible condition, is not stated ; he seems
to have simply wakened up with a clean shirt on,
his head oiled as usual, and his clothes in good
order, and, for all we know to the contrary, he
may have been saving money while in a stunned
oondition, and can’t recollect now where he put
it. Of course we haven’t the least doubt about
the insensibility. We are solid on that point, for
the writer has been taken the same way himself,
but he never had Mr. Levy's luck. After a few
hours of oblivion he has generally wakened in a
rent and torn condition, and eight months of it'at
the same rate would have left him practically
naked and with two wooden legs. If he had re-
covered at all, which is doubtful, after such a
term, it would have been as a paralysed criminal
lunatic who was badly wanted by the police, and
when they found him he would probably have
been drinking kerosene, or else attending a tem-
perance meeting.
* *
In the rowdy colony of N.S.W. we bet
heavily on a future state. Every third drunkard
we meet is a pillar of the church, and the whole
back country of Australia is spotted over, with
shining lights who regularly whistle with beer
and piety. One of these, however, was recently
gathered into the Blue Ribbon fold and undertook
From the Herald
THE Who
> LEFT Hl5 TEETH
WOO LLOOMOOLOO
bath
Will HAVE
RETURNED ON applv/kl,
To TH EF
ATTENDAN I
AN ILLUSTRATED ADVERTISEMENT.
to drink no more except at shearing-time—it
being pointed out by the penitent that he couldn’t
keep up during that trying period by imbibing
water during the day and reading Parkes’ “Mur-
murs of the Stream ”in the evening. But some-
how matters did not mend much with the re-
formed one, and a committee was appointed to
inquire into Ms walk and conversation—the one
being reported to be devious, and the other thick
and hazy. The committee planted itself in a
buggy, and drove out to the erring brother’s farm,
and at the gate they were encountered by the
brother himself, who greeted them with a lurch
and two hiccups. Then, an idea suddenly striking
him, he led them at a run across two gullies and
up and down three stony hills until he captured
the most solitary and miserable -looking sheep that
ever existed since Ham chased the family mutton
into the ark. “ See that ’ere sheep 1 ” he said with
a triumphant hiccup, “that’s cleanest sheep in
col ny ; shear him every fifteen minutes.”
Mrs. Thorogood, of Melbourne, who cap-
tured a burglar last week after nearly choking
him, proves to be a bpardiDg-house keeper. This
accounts for a good deal. We once stayed at a
boarding-house in Sydney where the landlady was
4 feet 6in. in height, weighed seven stone, and had
the complexion of a yellow-fever patient attacked
with jaundice ; and we stood by and cheered her
on while she collected a long-standing account, in
the Graeco-Roman style, from a six-foot Irishman.
The pair rolled over and over on the floor eighteen
times, but at the end of the twenty-third round
the lady got uppermost, and a cash settlement
ensued before she got off her customer's chest.
THE FIVE LACOHS OF MAN .
Fellows frank and free from guile.
Fond of change and versatile,
In their habits rowdy rather —
Always laugh in A. (in father).
If you come across a bloke
Who receives your brightest joke
With a smothered, drowsy gape—
He will laugh in A. (in ape).
When young children— timid, pliant—
Hear of Jack who slew the Giant,
They express their verdant glee
By laughing in a pleasant E.
Has some pretty, wheedling “ mash ”
Eased you of your ready cash ?
Take a cab at once and go
To the “ mug ” who laughs in 0.
Heed the warning of the bard—
And never hold in kind regard
Any of the sneering crew
Wont to cachinnate in U.
(editor's note.)
As a fair-haired cub of three,
Mother says we laughed in E.;
Mixing with the boyish throng—
Then our laughing A. was long ;
Years, ah ! many years ago
Someone heard us laugh in O.;
Bored by women, wine, and play,
Soon we laughed the other A.;
Now we’ve proved mankind untrue,
And never laugh except in U.
AN ELEGY.
Alas I poor elephant! condemned to bear the
weight
Of such a book, we, weeping, mourn thy fate.
Careering through the jungle in thy days of bliss,
Thou never thoughtst to ever to come to this.
Departed Jumbo—who pursued his daily track
With many children on his brawny, stolid baok—
Bore never such a leaden load by half
As Queen Victoria’s volume—bound in calf.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
A man of bray ns —Jawbone Neild.
Mr. W. J. Greig is living in Toorak once
more.
Ex-bank-manager Holt has been removed
from Parramatta Gaol to Berrima.
Advice to imported young noblemen—
Settle with thine adversary quickly.
Interesting to ladies—Sir Charles Dilke
has been bequeathed a fortune of £150,000.
There is no place like home —as Burdett
Smith said when he came back without a title.
Thomas Carlyle is said to have been the
only man who ever asked Queen Victoria to “ take
a chair.”
The illustrious descent of Graham Berry
has at last been satisfactorily traced. He is aDe
Berri. There, now I
General M‘lver went home by the Parra-
matta. Hostilities are not expected to commence
till Mac. gives the word.
The next Pope is to be a young man.
Mgr. di Rende, the discreet Paris Nuncio, is, so
people say, the favourite.
In Melbourne as much as 5 to 2 has been
laid that Bookmaker Sutton will upset his sentence
of 14 days’ imprisonment on appeal.
Miss Helen Gladstone, daughter of the
G.0.M., is head of the North Hall, Newnham
College, Oxford. The lady students have a mock
parliament, and recently carried Gladstone's Home
Knle Bill by 31 votes to 17. The discussion lasted
two nights.
The son of an English baronet, who re-
cently joined the ranks ot the N.S. W. unemployed,
is now grubbing trees near Orange.
The eminent Mr. Montagu Williams (now
a P.M.) says “It anyone tells you he is a Chris-
tian and a Blue Ribbonite, look out.’
Maxwell, who murdered -Preller, nearly
two years ago, and bolted to N.Z., is still growing
fat under sentence of death in St. Louis.
One of Sir Henry Loch’s flunkies sneaked
a £5 note from Lord Deerhurst’s pocket-book.
Evidently the poor devil wanted a “fiver” as
badly as his lordship.
A highly-spiced ditty, touching upon Dr.
Rose and the Baker’s Wife, is being sung at the
Victoria Hall, Melbourne. Untold gold wouldn’t
tempt us to reveal the chorus.
Brigham Young, according to rumour,
isn t dead after all. He will shortly return to
Utah as one risen from the dead, and his 250
wives are that happy you can’t think.
The Emperor William of Germany has
been upwards of 80 years a soldier. He joined
the army whin to years of age, thus starting in
the butchering trade at an earlier age than even
Dan. O’Connor.
The King of the Belgians intends to send
his portrait to the Adelaide Exhibition. While he
is about it the royal masher might as well send
portraits of the girls he has imported from Eng-
land during the last ten years.
That was a curious thing, the escape from
the gallows of Hall, the murderer of his father-in-
law. Now, had he murdered his mother-in-law
Apropos, there are other chargee of poisoning
be preferred against the arch-murderer.
Mr. J. Whittingham, of Melbourne spo
ing celebrity, has purchased the Hamleigh Pla
tation, Herbert River, for £20,000 As there’s
mill on the place, Mr. W. ought to be quite a
home.
Thomas Charter, aged 82 years, of Ipswic
(Q ), discovered a few weeks ago that he w
teething, and this without keeping the fami:
much awake at night. He is now the proud po
sessor of four new teeth, and several more
coming to the front.
Mr. Justice Adams, the new Tasmania
Judge, is reported to be under four feet in heigh
We don’t exact'y see how he can keep up th
Majesty of the law unless he puts himself in as
sort of sandwich between a pair of high-heelec
boots and a tall bell-topper.
The Algerian papers have got a litt
mixed over the death of Lord Iddesleigh. The
report that he quarrelled with Salisbury and tha
the two noblemen went at each other with kniv
and furniture until Northcote’s gore was sprear
all oveif Downing-street.
Mayor Riley, of Sydney, has discoverec
that Her Most Gracious possesses queenly qua
ties. So did Queen Elizabeth, and so did Is
bella of Spain. We fail to see where the comp]
ment comes in. We presume that the Mayo
means to be complimentary.
Sutton is going on with his appeal. It
set down for hearing at Melbourne Genera
Sessions, commencing before Judge Cope on Is
April (ominous date). Further evidence wi
be given, and among the new witnesses will
the barmaid who witnessed the trouble.
There is one honest, useful man added t
the British hupper suckles, and we are reall
sorry for him. W. M. Hogg, ex-barman—bush
man—stockrider—and general utility-man at the
Macleay, N. S. W., is now Sir Wm. Hogg, Bart. H
will find plenty hogs amoDg the aristocracy.
Henry George’s new paper, the Standard
started off with a circulation of 85,000. Georg
signs all the articles he writes, and signatures ap
pear to most of the other contributions. The fin,
number is a perfect stinger. The Standard
should have a tremendous sale in Australia.
The Aoe (Melb ) has a strong letter fron
“Justice,” who evidently does not believe in su]
phur words having only their first and last letter
put in. It is about the Sutton-Deerhuset case
and “ Justice ” ends up with :
" No one is safe now if a sprig of nobility is a litigan
Bench*! ”' m ' tbe brought laird Dudley on th
A little Sydney Jury Court joke of Thurs
day last. His Honor (to messenger): “ For
heaven’s sake see who that is makiDg that awfu
row outside there. It sounds to me as if someene
is quarrelling and fighting.” Messenger (after
vidt to the seat of war) : “ Please, yer Honor it’s
only Mr. Pilcher addressin’ the jury in the other
eourt.”
A Jubilee year suggestion for Australian
aldermen. In future toasts of ‘ • The Queen ” the
hackneyed expression of “ sovereign, wife, and
mother, ' might be enlarged to something fervent
about her grandmotherly honours, and further to
her relations as great-grandmother. It is remark-
able that, so far, after-dinner speakers have not
touched upon this qualification of Her Majesty.
We read that “ when the present Mar-
chioness of Salisbury was Lady Robert Cecil, and
her hußband, now Premier of England, wrote for
the Press and earned £4OO a year, she was wont
to drive to evening parties in a four-wheeler,
taking care to enter the drawing room with some
straws on her flounces, to which attention was
drawn by way of bringing shame on the Marquis,
her father-in-law, for leaving her husband and
herself in such poverty.”
Henry Kendall s aged mother is in Sydney
Benevolent Asylum. From the poor old lady the
poet inherited much of his genius, and some of his
weaknesses. It is not generally known that Ken-
dall when a mere boy was employed by a Sydney
firm of confectioners. At that time he was re-
garded as a crank because of a habit he had of
muttering verses as he walked along with down-
casteyes-the burden of a tart-tray outside, and
the greater burden of poetry inside, his head.
His Grace the Archbishop of Canterbury
and family have arrived at Lambeth Palace for
the season. This little announcement is culled
from a fashionable paper, and sets us thinking. We
° n i JL to ab ° ut time we had another revised
Bible. The kind we want would have Paul and
Peter whispering airy nothings and handing ioe-
creams to fashionable girls at a fancy dress ball,
and the Carpenter’s Son going down by Special
tram at the expense of the consolidated revenue
Galilee nd BDmmer Bt a villa nn the shores of
line phrase of Gladstone’s—where, in re-
ferring to the line about “ incest in the warrens of
the poor he says it may be doubted if these have
more to fear from a rigid investigation than other
more spacious habitations-flnds a swift com-
mentary in the rumour of a London divorce scan-
dal, involving fifteen co-respondents, some of
whom are great figures in the land. It is a oom-
mon statement that the respondentia Lady Brooke
the daughter and heiress of the extinct Viscount
Maynm-d, and the wife since 1881 of Lord Brooke!
iu Europe 0 “ ° De ° f the m ° Bt beautiful women
Captain Maude, who died a few weeks
B “ c n e : “ tbe -> ubilee year of Victoria, was the
CWtf» TI f £. man who liv °d 12 years under
Charles II His grandfather, Sir Robert Maude
was bom in 1673 ; his father, the first Lord
HawardeD, in 172!), and he himself in 1798. Thus
three generations hare covered 213 years, Or an
71 years to a generation" and have
lived linder 10 sovereigns. The first Lord Ha-
warden having been born as stated in 1729 mar-
ned in 1777 for his third wife a young lady’of 18
who lived to be 92, and died in 1851. There were
,' 22 J eara between the birth of the husband
and the denth of the wife. Such a case is pro-
bably unique. p
Dr. Carr, the new R.C. Archbishop of
Melbourne, is to be presented with a carriage and
pair of horses, and the lady members of bis flock
w, nd £' Vmg hlm a costljr car P9t. The meek and
lowiy Nazarene owned iitGe horseflesh and there
mi > c b velvet pile on the floor of Bethlehpm
? t b ‘ , J* twitted on the subject, however, per-
Ca " m iBht quote the answer given by
Rowland Hill to the dissentirg donkey who
thn« t n a / te sm^' lt m hlm for oomiD B to church (after
the age of 80) in his private brougham. “Is this
the way, asked the long eared one, “in which
Ilford Himself used to attend divine worship ?”
If the questioner," answered Hill, “ will come
vestry after the service I’U ride him
home. Rowland scored one there—nay, more,
he went out in an unfinished break easy


POLITICAL
PONTS
Payable gold—Abigail’s £25.
Bradlaugh is an anti-Socialist.
A Daniel in the den—of thieves.
The Paddington Hottentot—Alfred Allen.
St. Patrick was a gentleman, but he never
skulked behind the scenes and made speeches at
picnios.
Madagascar is going into the deficit line ;
Bhe is floating £500,000 in Paris. Here's a chance
for Dibbs.
Abigail thinks little of that £25. Con-
sidering that Frawncis never thinks much, this is
saying quite a lot.
The milk in the Tongan coeoamts is
mortgaged to the church. The local white pietists
take the green coooanuts for sky-piloting the na-
tives.
Reynolds alluded to Goschen —ousted from
London, turned out of Ripon, kicked out of
Edinburgh, rejected at Liverpool—as “Tho
Wandering Jew.”
The occupation by Mr. Thomas Garrett
of the office of N.S.W. Minister of Lands is a
monstrous farce, a political disgrace. It is h'gh
time that Mr. Garrett resigned.
When Bismarck secures the right kind of
a Reichstag, a law will probably be ense'ed de-
creeing that for the space of seven years none but
male children sha’l be born in Germany.
The result, so far, of the South Auttra-
lian general elections is a perfect crusher for Free-
trad*. How about Mr. Wise's prophecy concern-
ing a Customs Union on a Freetrade basis ?
Dangar, M.L. A., strides through the
N.S.W. Assembly as if it were part of his run in
the Namoi. This is a distinction without a
difference. There are dumb-driven cattle in both.
A German correspondent of the Standard
says that Germany will rot. udloss forced, move
at all again against France, until she has settled
what for her is the rextqueslion—that of Holland
Redvers Buller, a man gpeeially picked by
the Tory Government, has just declared a policy
of coercion in Ireland to be virtually impossible.
Whet is the Salisbury Government goiog to do
now ?
A correspondent asks, “ What is the cor-
rect deeigaation for William of Orange—Minister
for Justice, or Minister of Justice?” We don’t
know, but there's a vast ellipsis of meaning be-
tween the two.
Hyndman writes that Christianity, as seen
in Great Britain, “ismerely tho chloroform agency
of the confiscating classes. Consequently the
workmen are daily turning more and more against
its professors.”
According to a Yass paper an exercise duty
on beer is nart of the N.S.W. Government pro
gramme. Which goes to show the difficulty of
grasping political questions during this change-
able weather.
The Sydney D.T. makes Mr. Garva t
speak of Wolfe” and “Tom Emmet” as Irish
patriots. The D.T. is evidently as well versed in
Irish history as it is in good government and com-
mercial freedom.
Mr. Dibbs, an out-and-out Freetrader,
says that his recent travels in the country dis-
tricts convince him that it is a moral certainty
that Protection will be Ihe policy of N.S.W.
within a few years.
The champion intelligent elector is a
Hartley (N S.W.) man, who, being desirous of re-
cording his vote, scratched out the name of every
candidate and wrote his own in a big round hand
across the ballot-paper.
The Parkes Ministry work together in
anything but a harmonis.us v ay. The trouble is
the question of the repeal of the ad valorem
duties, to which at least four members of the
Government are opposed.
Parkes says that 11 the dirtiest public
character in N.S.W. is that owned by Dibb3." Ir.
would astonish Parkes and paralyse Australia if
Dibbs would only say half of what he knows about
one of Parkes’ present ooileagues.
O’Sullivan, M.L.A., says that the reason
of Parkes’ fierce onslaught on F. B. Suttor at
Bathurst was “ because a certain gentlemen re-
fused him temporary accommodation to the extent
of £9000.” Parkes says it’s a fie.
London Punch is dead agrainst the Jubilee
Imperial Institute, and prophesies that the build-
ing wifi be opened either as a Technical College or
a circus, and then become a Lunatic Asylum, a
swimming bath and a garden of acclimatisation.
Old Jack boiled over on Wise at the Free-
trade banquet. After iterating and re-iterating
“ The gentleman,” “ the gentleman,” he got at it
at last when he referred to him as one of “ the
youngsters who have hardly a feather on their
phiz.”
During the last two years, Freetrade has
done much for N. 8. W. Mort’s Dock Co. have
reduoed their men from 1100 to 450, Hudson
Brothers from 756 to 389, the Atlas Company
from 500 to 250, the Pacific Foundry from 154 to
00 ; and so on in all the foundries, forge®, and
factories.
During the uneasy times of 1884 in Mel-
bourne, the Union .Bank imported £400,000 in
gold. The necessity for this would not have
arisen (J. F. M‘Mullen, the Inspector, says) if the
other Melbourne banks had kept up their reserves
of coin to 3s; in the £ upon thB amount of their
liabilities!
Mr. Garrett, Secretary for Lands in the
N.S.W. Government, has been “indisposed” ever
since Mr. O'Mara made his famous attack on him.
The leader of the Opposition, out of feelings of
friendship for Mr. Garrett, of course, wanted the
Premier to state the nature of the “indisposition,”
but Sir Henry matntaiced dignified silence.
Nasty. From the Sydney Globe :
“ Cortis, M.P., like several young members of the
N.S.W. Assembly, has learnt off by heart Pitt’s
address on the ‘ terrible crime of being a young
man.’ It is quite unnecessary for him to defend
himself from ihat.crime. He cannot be blamed
for being a young man, He is to blame, however,
for ever having been born.”
A Queensland contemporary remarked re-
cently :
“ Parkes’ crowd seem to be having it all their own way at
the N.B.W. elec ions. M >»t o f his nominees have teen je-
turned. It will be interesting to see how Parkea wi-1 extract
hia colony out of the n ire in which it ia now subme ged.
Will he be equal to hia tat k ? ’
Why, cert'niy ! At least so says his former de-
tractor and calumniator, the Sydney D.T.
William Hood Treacher, Governor of
North Borneo, notifies to the Australian miner
that the local Segama goldfields cannot profitably
be worked by whites on account of the tropical
climate, heavy rainfall, and general cussednes3 of
the place. No one is (by proclamation) to bs al-
lowed to land in Borneo unless he can show that
he is in possession of sufficient means of liveli-
hood.
Telegram in daily paper : —“ The Journal
de St. Petkhsburg, in a violent article on the
subject to-day, states that the limits of Russia’s
patience have been exceeded.” Well—let them
be. Goat Island is not over calm, and the Little
“A Sydney Stationer has now on view in George-street the design from which he is executing
a casket containing an address from the Jewish community of New South Wales to her Majesty
the Queen, which is of a mod unique and tasteful character. The casket itself is composed of
the choicest native woods to be found, and enriched with gold and silver piercings of the Royal
Arms, English national emblems, and Australian native flowers, &c.”
HER MAJESTY (on receipt of the above) : “AH, PRAY THANK MY JEWISH SUBJECTS
IN NEW SOUTH WALKS FOR THIS UNDOUBTEDLY GENUINE EVILENCE OF
THEIR
Mr. MARCOOS LEV[?]US MARKS, of London (who has been entrusted with the safe
delivery of the exsket, &c: “SHENUINE ! MINE DEAR VUMMAN, I’LL DELL YOU
GONFEEDENSITLLY ZAT EIF YOU EFER VANT DO HREALIZE ON DOSE
GOOTS YOU YOOST BRING IT DO MIN’ BLACE OF PEEZNESS IN BE[?]GOAT
LANE AND I VILL ATWANCE YOU FIFE COUNTS ON If MIT MY OWN
HANTS.”
Boy at Manly has hail to be chained up by the leg
and catapults kept out of his rearh for several
days past The Czar is not the only party who
can get mad.
Henniker Heaton’s Tory constituency,
Canterbury, which contains 21,701 inhabitants,
was canvassed the other day from house to house
for funds in aid of ‘ the Women’s Celebration ”
of the Jubilee of Quean Victoria Only £BO was
raised—less than a penny per head. Which looks
as if the women of England's gushing admiration
for their Queen is not such as to loosen their
purse-strings materially.
What does this, from the Sydney D.T.,
mean ?
11 The N S W. Government naid Messrs. Goodlet and
Smith £98,850 16s. 7d. for their wharf and property at
Pvtmont, Sydney, which has been let to that firm at a
yearly rental jf £l2oo.’’
Doesn't it mean that as the interest on £96,850 at
4 per cent, is about £3875 per annum, the bleed-
ing colony annually loses the difference between
£l2OO and £3875 (viz., £2675) on this nice little
transaction !
On the morning of last Wednesday week,
between 3 and 4 o’clock, a special tram arrived at
Botany carrying two pxssengers only—both mem-
bers of Parliament. For this important service
steam had to bo kept np in an engine all night—a
driver, a fireman, and a conductor get a day and a
half pay each. We say nothing about wear and
tear of plant, &c. Yet at least one of the mem-
bers in question went into Pa’liacnent on the
“ free-trade and re-renchment ” war cry !
Scene, a back-block electorate, on polling-
day. One ot the candidates sits in his commit tee-
room, a perfect picture of ill concealed expecta-
tion There is but one return more to come in,
and he is at present two or three behind the other
man. At last a great shout arises. The last re-
turn is in. He is elected by a very narrow ma-
jority. “ Good Heevins !" he exclaims—“ a mem-
ber of Parliament! What will mafeyther say—
what will ma mither say l ”
The Governor of South Australia, in re-
ference to a despatoh received from the Prince of
Wales asking support for the Imperial institute,
suggests that “ the local governing bodies
throughi ut the color y she U be asked to organ 8r
committees to collect subscriptions.” It is a good
idea. If there are not blind men enough to be
hired outside of the Asylums they should let out
the inmates of that institution to canvass the
colony thoroughly—on commission, of ooturse. We
suggest as a labsl for these canvassers : “Of your
charity give to the Imperial Institute. Pity a poor
old Fraud ! ”
Mr. J. L. Mahon, citizen of London,
wi“hed to move the following amendment to the
chief resolution proposed at the Mansion House
Jubilee meeting on January 12 : —“ That, in view
of the grave dangers threatening society from the
discontent of the working Classes, it is unwise to
spend wealth inthe empty formality of celebrating
the Jubilee, or consolidating an Empire built up in
the interests of the upper class alone.” The Lord
Mayor loyally ruled that the amendment was
utterly out of place. Truth often is. Upon Mr
Mahon desiring to move another amendment later
on he wa3 ejected from the meeting. Thi3 is
British Fair Play in Jubilee yea".
The descent of man once more. In the
N S.W. Assembly last week, Alfred Allen, a little,
red headed caricature of Parkes, just elected for
Paddington on the lemonade and Orange-aid
ticket, was spreading himself in his old Salvation-
Army style as a model Fre Strader, when the
O’Sullivan reminded him with a smile that his
father, at all events, was a good Protectionist.
Then Alfred drew himself up with a demoniacal
glare in his eye, and said in quite a heavy bass,
“ If my father was a Protectionist, is that any
reason why I should he a Protectionist? If my
father had been a Hottentot, is that any reason
why I also should be a Hottentot ?' The 0 Sulli-
van said modestlv that he thought it was jutt
about the very best possible reason.
Mr. O'Mara asked Sir Henry Parkes in
the N.S. Vv. Assembly if he intended to move that
the motions which he proposed in 'Bl respecting
Mr. Thomas Garrett, M. P , ho expunged from the
records. The Premier emphatically replied :
“ I certainly do not intmd to do anything of the
kind,” whereupon Mr. O'Mara threw down the
gauntlet by giving notice of his inteu'ioa to do so.
A lively debate may be expected. It will require
a very ingenious device to enable Parkes to
wriggle out of the corner in which he finds him-
self as the result of his own folly. Jf members
vote for Mr. O'Mara's motion they will declare
that Parkes was wrong in 1881 in proposing that
Garrett should be expelled ; if they vote against
the motion they will declare that Parkes was
wrong in 1887 in including Grrrett in his “honest”
Government.
“ The Emperor of Russia wept when he
heard of the attempt that wa3 to be made on his
life ” —Last week’s cablegram.)
Parkes’ unmanly action in pouring the
vials of his wrath aver Mr. F. 13. Suttor . at
Bathurst, N.S.W., on the Bight preceding the
election, thus leaving that gentleman no chance
to reply to him, had an unmanly result. Dr.
Cortis made his maiden speech in Parliament last
weak, and by this time doubtless be wishes that
Parkej had had revenge on Suttor in some other
way than in the advocacy of his (Cortis’) cause.
The medico thought tic to make a personal attack
on A. G. Taylor, who was nominated for the posi-
tion of Chairman of Committees. Alleged boyish
and other frail'ies of that gentleman were
paraded to such an extent as to call forth indig-
nant cries of “Shame” from every part of the
House. The attack was the more aggravated
because of the absence of Mr. Taylor through ill-
ness. It may he predicted that the remainder
of Dr. Cortis’ political life will be a perfect
to him He insinuated that gome
of Mr. Taylor’s actions in Parliament were attri-
butable to the existence of the refreshment-rcom.
This was an unfounded insinuation, because Mr.
Taylor has never been a subscriber to the refresh-
ment-ro ern, and has therefore not been entitled £0
be served with anything stronger than tea.
New South Wales, which politically ha 3 so
far only as the j ideal of English snobdom,
is getting her name up “at home.” This from a
recent London paper :
' my note last week 00 the rough and ready manner
iq which disloyalty is treated in the Australian colonies, a
correspondent of the St. James's Gazette has rlrawn at-
tention to an Act cf the N.S.W. Parliament, inflicting a
punishment of two years’ hard labour on any ne using dis-
respectful languagG about the Queen, or factiously refusing
to join in a loyal toast, or.expressing approval of the conduct
of anyone so offending. This very drastic law, uncltr which
some of our Irish patriots and Radicals would fare
badly, was, I believe, passed soon after O'Farrell shot the
Duke of Edinburgh, and was directed against the persons
whose language incited him to assassinate the Duke. O Far-
relJ, it may be remembered, was hanged without me-cy,
although the himself pleaded for his life. We have
not heard much of Fenianism in Australia since that salu-
tary lessen The colonists are perfectly right in *heir boast
that they can teach us in the mother country a thing or two.”
If the British Tories will only take a contract to
hang all the men and women in England who
“ speak disrespectfully of the QueeD,” then may
all the Tory journalists, with profit to themselves,
at once go into the hangman, rope-making and
gallows-building business. It may interest the St.
James’ Gazette to learn that the Act in question
was passed at the instigation of Martin whi’e the
colony was drunk, and that Martin is dead and so
is his law.
Fiji, a Crown colony, governed in a
“ severe” way. has now a population of, say, 90,000
aboriginals, 7000 or 8000 Indian coolies, 5000 im-
ported Polynesians, 1000 Samoans, Kotumahaus,
Tongans, Chinese, and other nondescripts, and
only 2000 Europeans—ruled by a Governor,
Lieutenant-Governor, and a host of officials. The
whole of the revenue is insufficient to pay salaries
and expenses of Government, not one penny being
devoted to reproductive or other works. The
newly-appointed Governor, alarmed at the empty
t r easury and extravagance of administration, has
cabled to England for instructions. Great re-
trenchment is expected, and there is gloom'
in Government circles. As a consequence,
the public business is most perfunctorily
performed, the civil servants are all looking
as if they had suffered a sudden bereavement, and
are going about their duties a 3 if millstones were
tied around their necks.
We read in the half yearly report of the
Council of the Incorporated Law Institute of
N.S.W. that “the Council continue to icceive
complaints from attorney.s, which they are unable
to notice, because the complainants are not mem-
bers of the institute .” A pretty institution, this
Law Institute, for the protection of the public.
We observe, by the way, that a man vho stele
between £50,000 and £lOO,OOO from his clients is
still on the Institute’s list of members.
The following letter, from His Honor
DisTict Court Judge Docker, throws a lurid light
on the N.S.W. peoal code and its administration.
On the Judge’s statement we may frankly state
that we consider him to have beon maligned :
“Editor Bulletin.— Sir,—ln reference to the comments
in yonr issue of the 12ih imt. upon certain sentences parsed
at the sessions recently held at Forbes, as some of your
readers may desire to kno-v the real facts, will you accept a
statement of them from me? I camiot condescend to defend
myself from your charges of ehowirg judicial hatred c f any
particular class of offence, &c., but will simply iemark that I
did not invent the sentences hr the different offences, and
that all the judge has to do in that respect is to loyally dis-
charge his functions by imposing the sentences directed by
the Leg slature. Ten years’ penal servitude may be too
severe a punishment for horse or cattle-stealing, but this is a
question into which the judge cannot enter, for such i* the
punishment provided by the Criminal Law Amendment Act
for that offence, and the only liberty given to the
judge is to reduce the sentei.ee, if theie aie extenuating
circumstances, to as low as three years. (Under certain
special circumstances he is authorised by a subse-
quent Act to go below the minimum.) Now,* as regards
the particular sentences referred to, I will shortly state
the circumstances, indicating the cases alphabetically. A.
pleaded guilty to three separate charges of hoisc-Btealing.
Sentenced to five years' penal servitude, the sentences being
concurrent. This prisoner was on the 19th January last
convicted 011 two distinct charges of horsestealing. There
appeared to be extenuating circumstances (youth, &c ), and
the sentences were three years' imprisonment, concurrent—
the minimum sentence under the Ar t. Ic seems that the
Crown was not satisfied w ith this amount of punishment,
for he was afterwards arraigned at Forbes on three other
similar charges, at a cost to the country for witm-sres
alone of nearly £lOO. The effect of these latter sentences
was merely to add two years and six weeks to the period he
was already serving ; and if the punishment were appor-
tioned to each of the five offenct s, it would amount to a
little over one year apiece. Under the Act, tbe prisoner was
liable to 10 years for each offence and, in addition, to
cumulative sentences of 10 years for the second conviction,
and 14 jearsfor each subsequent conviction. It is hardly
necessary to calculate what his total liability would amount
to. B. pleaded guilty to one charge of herse-stealiog
and two of larceny. Sentenced to 10 years on Ihe
first and five on the others, all concurrent. This pri-
soner had been sentenced cn the 3rd February last to
ten years for stealing a mob of cattle. The Crown was ap-
pa ently not satisfied wiih this punishment, and he was
afterwards a>raigr.ed on the three other charges, in this in-
stance also at great cost to tbe country. He was undoubtedly
a cci firmed criminal, having passed a *reat part of his life
in gaol He began with concurrent rentences of ten and
t fteen years for two charges of robbery under arms, and was
afterwards convi ted no less th *n four times for horse-steal-
ing, each offeree being generally committed immediately
after his release from gat-1. As soon as he came out the last
time he stole, the catt’e. He would probably have reverttd
to his original crime if he had 1 ot been captured, one of the
articles i tolen by him being a gun. The effect of the sen-
tences passed on him at Fortes was to add one month to ihe
jeriod he was already serving. Under the law he was liable
to ever CO years’penal senimee. C. Pin.did guilty to ob-
taining money by false premiers. Sentenced to two years*
imprisoment. Cucumstanct s extenuating, and the sentence
would have been less but for tic fact that the prisoner had
been three times previously convicted of larcencv. Sentence
provided by the Act, five yeai sard not lest thanone. D. pleaded
guilty to two charges of larcn cy Sentenced to one year on
each concurrent, the minimum sentence under the Act. Might
have been charged wich stealing in a dwelling, which offence
entails a heavier penalty than simple larceny, viz , s»ven
years. These are the sentei ces which you characterise as
monstrous. It will be seen that, not even in tbe case of the
confirmed criminal d d I pass the full sentence authorised by
law. If, therefor., any censure is deserved it should fall on
the makers, not on the administrator of the law. Now, as to
the cast s in which you allege that undue leniency wasexei-
cised : E pleaded guilty to a common assault, not wounding
with intent to do grievous bodily harm, as stated by you.
Sentenced to one month’s imprisonment. Ihe grievous
harm you allege consisted of a trivial cut on the leg. The
prisoner was in a violent state of intoxication, and in a
scuffle with the apprehending constable stabbed him with
his pocket-knife. Previous character good. Had been in
gaol awaiting trial for a period of four months. The offence
being a misdemeanour, not a felony, the Judge’s discretion
w.is unlimited except as to the maximum, viz,, two years.
If the prisoner had been charged at petty sessions
the maximum would have been three mon*hs, or
six, if the charge had been assaulting an officer.
F. and G. Each pleaded guilty to indecent assault. Sen-
tenced each to three months. Each had been three months
in gaol awaiting trial. Previous character good. In each
case the assault was merely nominal. In the first, the
accused laid his hand on the woman and made an immo. al
proposal, which was declined. lie attempted nothing
further, but apologised for his conduct. In the second case,
the accused, under the impression that he was invittd, slit
the calico partition between his room and that of the servant
girl at a public-house, and got tnrough. The beds were
adjacent to the 1 artition, and insetting through lie put his
hand on the girl's leg. Ske cried out, and perceivirg his
mistake as to an invitation, he apologised aDd retired, and
the publican gave him a good thn sbirg. Tie prosecution
wes not instituted by the girl or the publican. It is evident
that in both these ctse-s the offeree consisted more in the
immoral intention expressed by the accused than in the
assault: but the Legislature has not thought lit to make
immorality by itself punishable, and iherefore the judge h >s
no right to do so. Some persons will probably consider that,
under the circumstances, the punishment was, if anything,
too severe. The offence is a misdemeanor, the maximum
penalty being three years.—l have, &c.,
“E. B. DOCKER."
THE L[?]GISLN OR AND THE MAID.
Sing heigh, sing ho, sing hum, hum, hum—
Sing beigh ti the maiden fair !
She sifeth there in the gallerie
With a ribbon red in her hair.
Sing high, sing low, siog yum. yum, yum—
Sing high to the member bold.
He knketh up from the floor below
And stroketh his beard of gold.
Sing heigh to the member—heigh to the maid—
They work both early and late—
The maiden worketh t he member bald,
And the member worketh the State.
The Emperor wept! Great Gtd I the tyrant’s
fears.
That nightly rob him of his loyal sleep,
Found outlet ic a hurst of cravtn tears.
He wept, as mil.ions of his subjects weep.
The Emperor wept—to think brave hearts should
seek
To end the crimes of him whose constant aim
Is but to break the spirit of the weak,
And heap fresh infamy upon his name.
The Emperor wept! How long shall Russia’s
tears
Flow from her downcast eye 3 in hitter flood ?
Weeping she waits the coming of the years,
And every tear is red with martyr blood.


A Missing Politician.
PARKES: OOH


y/ r £ty e yfye/eor/c J/o/iefe/f//z J
fact //>e O/berr/uy.
/fAo /irawee/ AAcr/dr/fa/rre/'e/
C/comed a Idf/orrcrr/ /sof/facrcm (<fuse
Acs/ // An or fee/ off. 1
A/ere you Aurd 7Ae Czar °/
a// //re A//ryy zs /d-
-//e/resb aSr "snA/s faeA^ycsrx/ejr-
kr/r/cac!esoffemci 7e SU/aye
(s/d- ( ’^r n do ps Co*,, ( y£ss
"Fr/ *
j«1 /„i
L'VV’i
Kn- aV 9 v
U\>n
Wy^l
* '4l
'/ \ Ui ' burry Aacb Joas /o farad Auiy
fare rjro ouf-aod def osr/~ /nme "
(ybe/i TarY/ame/if toiffi
ysrcyerY SfrAy (erf'nfy.
7/7/ 7i>ro//>es
/cue/ u 7/o ra y er ■
7/ou6>fesome Conj/y/ifc# - <
/ye// J/re/iry. /to«r'a-
//yotf/' //rar /jr/t/go ?
\ S/re/7ry ”Wye!
Uffya/ Wr/Wye ?
7?C /rfy#e y
J>r/j/$c 7/? c 't
you ftW/eW/or,
. Jo me one W Jyny
\ aif your J'jW
\ /fan W ar/ W/uo/</
/'UT/Z//you CL
year OCJo ojW
J'jnenry "M/ /**
was oa/yyooe/ry
T.u/as a yuoA/? °f
, ,/os7 //jjun //fa. //
JVe foT' /o s/o/b a?n // fyy/ar//?
C/7? /7/y /7ac//OZ? JWe <s6ct // Sree&s ye/O/y
cd/77> <>/ (01/ rt/Ty /''
{ r«La/ farmer - 7day .
'! Jody good Uyors of yours, dJ,u/_
dry/,/- /bey dost « Aundred faocO>
■/F6-W smem on A,S' /*”
«re///Ar if /Cun /e//you Ad
%e Co/orrra/ Area surer s Ssnoszcs /
ffc/r/7? e/?f fo/nes'
Things in General.


Society
We are sure there won't be any sleep in
perdition tor a month after this. A high-born
English lady, the wife of an earl whose ancestral
horse-thief oamo over with the Conqueror, was
driving to a reception when her gorgeous chariot
with the coat of-arras on the hind quarter was
blocked by a common vulgar cab. The lady, w r ho
was old, and thin, and haughty, projected the upper
half of her half-clothed figure through the window
and yelled in a vinegary treble : “ Clear tbe way,
fellow. How dare you obstruct my carriage ?
Don’t you know who I am ? Don’t you see my
arms ? ” Then the cabby looked angrily round at
the yellow gorgon and retorted : “ Yes, hi does
and hi thinks ’em worry scraggy.” The lady
hastily drew in what looked like two long un-
healthy sausages with a hand and a bracelet at
the end of each, and the subject was allowed to
drop.
Mr. Dampior, by putting on the play of
” Margaret Catchpole,” at Sydney Royal Standard
Theatre, has exhibited a disregard for the feelings
of certain of the first families of N.S.W. which
cannot be too 6trongly reprehended. After Miss
Catchpole had served her spell for catching horses,
she decided to catch a man, and shortly after she
married a Camden (N.S.W.) farmer and went into
the butter and cheese business, at which she
proved to be female Past-master Grand. She was
a bit of a Tartar, also, and when she was allowed
to employ convict labour she made things remark-
ably Bultry for those who had the misfortune to
be consigned to her. As a sample of her style, it
is recorded that she used to drive a pair of pink-
eyed white ponies on her marketing trips to Syd-
ney, and on one occasion her groom, who was a
convict servant, havirg failed to polish up the
prads to suit her fastidious taste, she hus’led him
off to a magistrate, and “ had his hide tickled ”
(as she pleasantly remarked) with 50 lashes.
Sentimental persons who have been slobbering
over the gentle Margaret's sufferings during the
Dampier season will probably feel inclined to kick
someone when that little item of genuine colonial
history meets their gaze.
.*
All this glory is from the Brisbane
Courier :
" Eamee—Woodward.—On the 3-d March, at Trinity
Church, by the Rev. Herbert Guinness, William Bunbury
Fairfax, M.D., L.R.C.5.1., and LR.C.P., The Hermitage,
Gympie, son of the late Very Rev. Benjarniu Wilson Earnes,
rector of Swinford, and Dean of Kilcondoif, counly Mayo,
Ireland, grandson of the late Richard Fairfax Karnes, of
Gracefeild, and formerly Judge of the Court of Exchequer,
Dublin, Ireland, also of Colonel Thomas Buubury, of Holly-
wood House, oounty Down. Ireland, cousin to the late
General Lord Gough and to the present Lord Rath Donald,
and first cousin to the late Colonel Mac Neil Hamilton, of
Broom Hall, Lord Lieutenant for the county of Lanark, Scot-
land, to Minnie, eldoet daughter of J. M. Woodward, Ksq.,
Brisbane.”
Mr. William Buubury Fairfax gets a very fair show,
it will be observed. But why didn't they complete
the thing by letting us have the full pedigree of J.
M. Woodward, Esq. ?
We clip the following from a Sydney
daily :
“ TWO sisters require comfortable room, fireplace ;
small, sober, Protestant family. ’
Is this an exceptional case, or lias it beoome a
necessity l
* * »
From S.M. Herald :
" March 12, at her residence, the wife of ,of a
daughter (Marjorie).”
We do not remember any previous cases of a
ready-named baby being born thuely.
Young men don’t know what their arms
were made for, and their ignorance compels us
girls to lace tight. —Extract from a ycung lady's
diary.
* * *
Have you heard of the new seamed under-
skirt i The distinctive new feature in English
dress is a peculiar swish and sway of the skirts of
dresses worn at balls in high sassiety. The move-
ment of the draperies is in harmonic unison with
the steps of the wearer, and she gains consider-
ably in pioturesquencss, because the outlines of
her gown are constantly being altered, but are
all the while instinct with life and individuality.
The fabric seems to be, as never before, a part of
her personality. It follows that a graceful woman
with a good style of carriage in walk and waltz,
is increasedly charming. But how is it accom-
plished? The secret lies in what is termed a
Beamed underskirt. Tbe modish girl has not
exactly put on trousers, nor yet donned the
divided skirt of the dress reformers, b’’t she has
had a seam run into her petticoat for “ swagger ”
occasions, This division of the garment into two
sectiODS is only for a short distance, at the knee
level, and its effect i 3 to make the dress conform
to the gait of the girl. She has to modify, of
oourse, the usual process of dropping the skirt
over her head, but no matter for that so IODg as
her loveliness of contour is heightened. This is
said to have been borrowed from Rosina Yokes,
the actress. It was noticed that in her dancing
she managed her lorig train with wondrous grace.
The feat was at the time ascribed to skill alone.
But now she is emulated. She went to a modisle
to get some new clothes made, and there had to
give away the secret. Thence it went out to
favoured customers; and now the belles are
waltzing in seamed skirts.
©nehunga (N.Z.), a peaceful little seaport
where the grass grows on the piers and the false
prophet Daniel—represented by the small boy of
the period—plays at IioDS on tbe railway line, has
had a slight sensation. Ihe principal decoration
of the one-horee town was a wealthy widow, and
until recently she had two suitors. One was tall,
young, and slender, and had some scanty blonde
vegetation growing over his jaw ; the other was
a dark, gorgeous-looking pirate who had seen ser-
vice in the American Army, and who declared he
was prepared to throw himself on an elephant and
tear it limb from limb if the coarse and bulky
animal only dared to cause the w idow a moment’s
uneasiness. This individual was far ahead, and
the youth with the blonde vegetation on bis jaw
was a bad second. But one moonlight night,
when tho dark pirate was trying to put the ques-
tion by Ihe side of the pale“and groaniDg ocean,
his attention was distracted by a brick, which hit
him on the side of the head, and turning round he
found his other wife, whom he had thought to be far
away. He grasped the situation in a moment,
and in another instant a soft white hand grasped
his hair and gave him one on the listener. At
this point there came a blank in the history, but
when the darkness cleared up, a big man was
hastily taking the train for Auckland. He had
no carpet-bag with him, but he had a large
ecchymosis on the head instead, and his ear had a
red and wrenched appearance. The blonde youth,
who reckoned he had now a chance of making
himself solid with the widow, came behind with
a horsewhip and jumped into the next carriage
just as the train was moving, and the rest of the
drama was worked out in double-quick time.
The military individual who had shed blood on so
many battlefields was squashed too flat to care to
show tight, so he threw himself from the train,
and, landing on all fours, watched the vehicle go
by. The youth tried to jump also, but kind,
friendly hands held on to his coat-tail, and when
he got free, his enemy was gone for ever. But
the widow married him on the strength of what
he had meant to do to that dark man if he had
only caught up to him, and so poetic justice may
consider itself satisfied.
* * *
It has come at last! We have been ex-
pecting it for a long time. Here it is : “ Sarah
Doudney, a lady of no occupation, has been fined
£1 for using indecent language."
* * *
We met a gentleman the other day. He
was a tram-guard, and just as the car commenced
to move slowly off from one of the stopping-
THE REASON WHY.
SHE: “SO THOSE ARE BOOKMAKERS! TELL ME, MR. DE JONES, HOW THEY ALL
HAVE MANAGED TO GET BROKEN NOSES?”
HE: “SIMPLY, I PRESUME, BECAUSE THEY DESERVED IT.”
places, he saw a poor, ugly, bent old woman rise
to get out. Instead of tearing around, dislocating
her arm with a grip like iron, swearing at her,
and carryirg her half a mile out of her way, this
Chesterfield souDded his whistle, brought the car
to a standstill, and, without any remonstrance,
gently assisted the old woman to alight!
* * *
The Glasgow Weekly Mail thus answers
a correspondent, “South Australia The
articles in the Australasian and the South
Australian Register, which you tea*m a 4 re-
ward for our kirdEe*p,’ have not greatly dis-
turbed the public mind here. As for the animad-
versions on Scotch hospitality, all that need be
said is that the so called colonials came without
any real invitation frrm the citizens of Glasgow,
that while only 33 left London upwards of 100
joinfd them en route , and many of them con-
ducted themrelves in Glasgow in a discreditable
manner ; some drank to exoess, and behaved very
badly at the banquet, talking, shouting, interrupt-
ing, and leaving the room before the proceedings
had well begun ; there never had been anything
like it seen in Glasgow, and exoept they come
back again it is not likely to be seen again.”
* * *
It will be remembered that in 1880 a high
Government official of Fiji figured, as many other
eminent persons have done, as co-respondent in a
Sydney divorce suit. It -will interest people to hear
that the gentleman in question has just been ap-
pointed to a legal position in Levuka, and has set
himself right with the best society of the torrid South
Seas, many of whom hpld opinions quite in com-
mon with those of Lord Colin Campbell’s mother-
in-law. According to the local paper (Polynesian
Gazette) he is going to give a grind hall to sig-
nalise his official appointment. However, even in
Fiji a man must be forgiven at some time or other.
# * *
The following are a few of the brilliant
Jubilee proposals which have been agitating the
Victorian grovelling element for the past three
weeks 1. That the widows of Melbourne shall
have “a good substantial tea" (Cr. Fenwick). 2.
That a statue be erected. 3. That £lOOO be raised
to found a Deerhurst scholarship, the motto to be
“ Brutum fulmen, mentor, nemo me impune
lacessit.” 4 That a federal Review be held. 5.
That Premier Gillies get married. 6. That a
temperance banquet be held, the water to be sup-
plied by Chaffey Bros. 7. That a golden crown
with 50 gems in it be given to the Queen (Fitz-
gibbon). 8. That Fitzgibbon buy it. 9. That
every child plant a Jubilee Tree. 10. That Chas.
A. Smythe be once more started as a local
preacher, the Commissioner of Police to “ moder-
ate the call ;” and 11th and best, by Cr. Zeven-
hoom, that all mortgage debts be cancelled, and
all bank overdrafts be written off. We hold up
both hands for Zevenboom.
* * *
Let us suppose that one of these days a
titled pariah comes to Australia from England
and steals something, or swindles somebody, and,
when indicted, asks to be tried by his peers.
What shall we do with him ) Would it not be as
well, with a view to meeting this by no means un-
likely contingency, to keep on hand a jury of
twelve noble hereditary blackguards, who oould,
when not employed in trying their azure-blooded
equals, be deputed to consort with the most
fashionable of the clergy and give a tone and an
aroma to the “ first families” of the land ? It is
true that if we only imported twelve, two or
three of them might, just at the moment when
they were wanted in court, be laid up with the
jim-jams ; but again, it must be remembered that
Providence generally bestows upon Australia two
or three eoronetted emergency-men on the globe-
trot.
The prettiest woman in the Simonsen
Italian Opera Company knows but three words of
English.. “Mister" and “Good-night”—these
are her stock-in-trade.
By the way, the male members of the
Simonsen company are extremely obliged for the
little scented notes which on the arrival of every
post fall around them like leaves in autumn ; if
i he public could but see some of the names affixed
to the billets in question, their hair would stand
on end. Those fair creatures who have written
to the gentlemen of the troupe will be interested
to hear that as none of Ihe latter are thoroughly
acquainted with the lingo of John Bull a meeting
of the entire company is held over every letter re-
ceived, with a view to its translation.
* * *
An American jibe : —“ Say, papa, how do
you like the look of my new ball-dress ? ”
“Humph! I must say there isn’t much of it
above the waist. But then I suppose it is cheaper
to wear a dress cut low in the waist, isn’t it ? ’
“ There’s where you are mistaken, papa.” “ Why
I should think it would be cheaper because there
isn’t much of it.” “ Yes, papa, but just think
what it costs to paint my shoulder-blades white !’
• ♦ *
The latest from Paris. A lady was
observed to get into a cab whilst her husband
stood talking to the driver on the kerbstone.
Presently something startled the horse, which ran
away. The husband, with the utmost indifference,
was heard to exclaim, “ I wonder what’s going to
happen now !” Then he remarked to a bystander,
“Well, I suppose we shall see it in the papers tQ»
morrow."
The old uncivilised custom of settling pro-
perty on a girl before marriage is now dropping
out of fashion in England as well as in Australia.
It has a pernicious effect in making the girl cheeky
and independent, and she won’t stand having
her nose pulled more than a couple of times at the
outside. Moreover, there are very few men who
have anything to settle now a-days.
The following lines were circulated in
Melbourne last week— apropos of the Sutton-
Deerhurst infamy
"You may knock about a peeler, should you find him off his
beat;
Make a small boy turn a squealer, and his sister, boo, mal-
treat !
You may kick a drunken sailor, as you meet him driving
home ;
Knock stuffing out of tailors, who venture forth to roam ;
Baste publicans galore, and jump upon their wives,
Fell barmaids to the floor and cut them up with knives.
In crimes you now may revel, and shirk your just
reward,
But you’ll go straight to the devil if you touch an Fnglhh
Lord."
* * *
Wanted, two thoroughly respectable
A.I) C.’s for Government House, Melbourne.
Written and personal characters indispensable.
Those addicted to followers and the bottle need not
apply.
* * *
Bishop Barry when *in Melbourne ap-
proved of old Dr. Bromby’s surpliced young ladies
in the chancel of St. Paul's Church. We have
seen them once, and wo do not object to them
either, bless their hearts ! We shall soon, how-
ever, hear what Field F. Goe has to say to it.
The following fees are now being paid for
cross-examination in Melbourne ' —Ordinary cross-
examination, gentlemanly, and with a view of
eliciting the truth, 10 guineas ; rather high-toned,
with cheeking the judge thrown in, 15 guineas ;
the opposing party insulted and insinuations made
against his character and that of his female rela-
tions, 30 guineas ; extra special, hot and strong,
with his deceased wife’s sister dragged in—two
insults per half-hour in the cross-examination and
15 in the address to the jury guaranteed—sQ
guineas, with liberal refresherings.
“ Bily ” writes to a Melbourne paper :
“ (1.) Can you tell me tho name of a song containing
these words?—
“ ‘ Oh, angel, dear angel, 1 pray you
Leave the beautiful gate ajar.’
“ (2.) What is the best recipe for pear jam?"
As to the first query we deoidedly don’t know
(uDless it be Parkee), and moreoverwe fancy if the
beautiful gate is left open where the pear jam is,
the pear jam will vanish and “Lily’’ won’t sing
that song any more.
* • •
At J os. Symes’ shop, in Melbourne, a re-
solution was carried that “ The action of the City
Court Bench in allowing the Earl of Dudley to oc-
cupy a seat on the Bench during the hearing of
the case Deerhurst v. Sutton, was an unwarrant-
able assumption of their privileges, and an act of
gross impertinence and indecency to the com-
munity.” It is rumoured that when Sir Henry
Loch received a copy of that resolution he was for
calling out tho miliingtary and proclaiming
“ martial law” in Melbourne. He regarded it as
an act of gross impertinence and indecency to the
uppah suckles, and dear Lady Loch was quite
of the fame opinion, doncherknow.
The dates of two forthcoming fashion-
able marriages have been fixed—that of Miss Lena
Simson and Mr. Thomas Fairbairn, of Toorak, for
April 13th ; and that of Mr. Sturgess, A.D.C. to
H.E. Sir Henry Lcch, with Miss Grice, for March
28th. At the latter the bridesmaids are to be the
Misses Lech, and the “ Government House set ”
will be in force.
From Sydney Evening News :
“XO Let, a furnished front room, to suit Mvo mates
or married couple.”
A nice distinction and a nice difference : married
couples are by no means always mates.
• * *
Another long-felt want is filled. The
latest thing in the way of family weapons is the
domestic-tragedy revolver. It has sip chambers
—two bullets for your faithless wife, two for tho
ruthlf ss destroyer of your once happy hearth and
home, and two for yourself, to save time and rope
—especially rope. No respectable family should
be without one.
* * *
It may not be g.nerally known that Lord
Colin Campbell, of Divorce Court notoriety, is a
00-partner with Lord Ashley in the Rio Station,
Leichhardt district of Queensland. As Lord Colin
is, however, leading a solitary life in the seclusion
of the IVestem Highlands of Scotland, studying
for the Bar, there is no hope of our seeing him in
Australia—at least, for the present.
It exasperates us to hear, in the Jubilee
year of Victoria, that the authorities of the Sydney
Scottish (Volunteer) regiment have finally de-
A MARCH TRAGEDY.
It was the Opera season, and the place was Sydney
fair,
And dead-broke Montmorenci told his girl ha
would be there ;
the was going with her parents (so she said) on
opening night,
And cashless Montmorenci thought she’d see him
there all right.
So he pawned a little pawn to rise three glistening
half-crowns
(For he hadn’t in his pockets just so many glisten*
ing browns),
And lie strolled to buy a ticket with an airy,,
cash-y grace,
And he went at night at seven for to get a slap-up,
place.
He looked about the “ R’yal,” but no trace of her
he saw !
He thought of those three spent half crowns (he,
hadn’t any moah),
When the next morn he got a note, he grinned
with pure delight,
'Twas “ Gome again on Tuesday, love, we couldn't,
go last night I


cided to abandon all notion of turning out their
men in kilts. They are not afraid of the Russians,
they say, but they fear that the lengthy Colonel
Gray—we presume that, like all the rest of them,
Gray is a Colonel—might be placed in the dis-
agreeable predicament of having to kill mosqui-
toes off his marrow-bones in public. Which
suffices to show that the vaunted loyalty of Syd-
ney is but skin-deep, after all.
Rev. Kinsman, of Fitzroy (Vic.), has
married 8000 people—including Murdooh, the
batsman.
Marriage.—At Auckland, N.Z., William
Sinner to Mary Getz. —
See, in this race of happiness,
The husband is the winner,
For he, as usual, gets a saint,
While Mary Getz a Sinner.
* * *
A Melbourne widow, wishing to keep
verdant the memory of the late lamented, reck-
lessly lets off the following In Memoriam in the
Age :
“ The blustering winds, and the raging Bea
H ive tossed him to and fro,
Yet by degrees he is brought here,
And anchored safe below.”
Safe below ! Well, he was a stoker at the gas-
works, and it is a consolation to think that he
wont feel the change much.
In England, two godly young Sunday-
school teachers, sons of the local canon and verger
respectively, fell in love with a dear little thing
who sang in the ehoir. They fought 17 gory
rounds over her, and strewed the earth with teeth
and hair, and fragments of bone, and the oanon’s
son at length prevailed. But the mean son of a
verger went right away all blood- stained from the
battle, to the dear little thing who sang in the
choir, and got her to tie some rags round his
wounds, thus cottoning her sympathies, as it were,
before the son of a gun, who had fairly won her,
could, after putting raw meat to his eyes and
making himself smart with jewellery, amble in to
claim his prize. And when he did amble in the
unreasonable girl overwhelmed him with her
wrath, and he retired crest-fallen as a wet-cat.
The extensively-advertised impecuniosity
of such noble sprigs as Lords St. Leonards and
Viscount Deerhurst (not to mention “Lady”
Munro, or the many sons of earls who do duty on
sheep-runs) has somewhat dimmed the glory of
travelling aristocrats. Some very audible re-
marks were passed concerning the financial posi-
tion of Earl Cairns as he was leaving a Melbourne
theatre the other night:
lat Loafer : " Who did yer say he was ?’’
2nd Loafer: "Lord Karns"
Ist Loafer : Karns 1 Is he another 1 duffer ’!”
2nd Loafer : “Not him—he's got plenty of stuff.”
The noble earl heard this dialogue, and will be
able to warn his English friends that a bare title
isn’t good for such long credit in Australia as
might be expected. The betting fraternity, too,
is beginning to make strict enquiries about the
noblemen who arrive by every mail. It is a com-
mon thing, at-Epsom or Newmarket, for a book-
maker to answer, “ Not with me, my lord! ” to
some high-bred stonebroker who wants to “ book
sixty to forty on the nod.” Ere long we shall see
Government House proteges mouching round the
ring, at Randwick or Flemington, followed by a
running fire from the Moseses and Aaronses of—
“ Not with me, my lord! ” However, it is plea-
sant to reflect that fledglings like Cairns and
Dudley can be safely trusted for a restaurant din-
ner or a sac suit. It won’t be necessary for Joe
Thompson to murmur “brass down,” in his softest
society accents, when they want to back the
favourite. The job will be to lure them on to
stiff ’uns. Earl Dudley’s late papa was received
by the ring with grave courtesy on the rare occa-
sions of his gambles. He had a superior way of
laying out £lO,OOO in one pop. Moreover, he
generally won-until the books “readied something
up ” for him at Ascot, and drove the eocentric
Crcesus off the turf in di<gust.
« * *
A pastoral play—a form of entertainment
much in vogue in London, but a novelty as yet in
Melbourne —is to be given next week in the
grounds of the residence of Colonel Sargood. It
is for a charity, and is creating considerable
interest. #
A report has been going the round of the
papers that Princess Louise is about to sue for a
divorce from the Marquis of Lome. There is not
likely to be the slightest truth in this statement,
as the Queen’s consent, without which the Princess
could not act, would never be given. How could
the Queen, who never receives at Court any
divorced woman, ostracise her own daughter ? It
is known that the Princess has frequently ex-
pressed herself in the strongest terms of disap-
proval of any woman who would expose the
secrets of her private life to the curious gaze of
the public, and has given it as her opinion that no
marital wrong, however great, could be a suffi-
cient excuse for the degradation of a public
scandal. It is generally understood, by the way,
that the relations between Lord Lome and his
wife are based “ on the true and lasting founda-
tion of platonic friendship and common tastes, and
have always been admirable, despite continual
rumours to the contrary.
• * *
From the Sydney D.T. :
“ A SPLENDID ADDRESS FOR THE GOVERNOR.
" In the address in question there is not a flower of the
lUawarra district—which is particularly rich in such—that is
not depicted; in fa;t, in order to obtain a specimen of the
Bangelo flower, one of the few palms which rise oyer a
hundred feet in height now remaining was cut down so that
a faithful representation of it should be made.
Splendid example ! Shall the Sydney tuft-hunters
be eclipsed by Wollongong ? No ; pull down the
Post Office tower and plant it in the vice-regal
back yard, a pigeon-house meet for the greatest
Governor of a great people. Tear down the
church bells, they would be right serviceable as
aloe-pots when nicely inverted and. placed along
the terrace edge. We do not believe that Lord
Carington will feel less regret than do the majority
of people at the destruction of “one of the few
palms of over 100 feet in height now remaining ”
for the purpose of further embellishing an address
already rich in illustration. But the undiscrim-
inating obsequiousness of some people is beyond
suppression, and no doubt in the next century
gome specimens of the same genus will
be found who will readily surrender our
last regent-bird, that some corner of the glass
oase belonging to my Lord Tomnoddy may be
more gorgeously complete, or hand over our
penultimate platypus that an artist may at his
ease more correctly fill a panel in the yacht of my
Lord Aluminium.
Parkes, for reasons, is working hard to
get a Sir Julian Salomons manufactured on the
occasion of the Queen’s Birthday in Jubilee year,
and the coming knight, with the glitter of his
future magnificence already upon him, has taken
time by the forelock and adorned himself with a
private secretary—Mr. Scarlett, lately the hench-
man of Sir Patrick Jennings. And, by the way,
on Queen’s Birthday we shall surely have to con-
gratulate—or commiserate—Sir Toby Barton.
Lucky men who fulfil their natural mis-
sions by becoming “ happy fathers” signify their
joy in sundry styles and divers manners. Some of
them strut around clucking like roosters who
have witnessed the bringing of an egg into this
vale of tears. Some rush off to the Savings’ Bank
to open an account in baby’s intended name.
Others drink the little stranger s health till they
are brought home in a wheelbarrow. James
Wright, of Collingwood (Melb.) celebrated the
advent of his first-born by going mad. He drove
away nurse with a carving-knife, hacked at his
wife, and then held baby in his arms while he cut
his throat. James died from the self-inflicted in-
juries, and it is idle to conjecture what he might
have accomplished under the excitement of
triplets.
Suicide is becoming fashionable in Eng-
land, and even children in good society go in fi r
it. At Bolton, a school girl ran up by slow degrees
a bill for a good many pounds in the purchase of
toffee, hard-cake, Bath-buns, and sioh, and then
wiped off the crushing liability by drowning her
self. She held succeeded in getting her last chunk
of cake on credit, but then she resolved to die on
an empty stomach, and the cake was feund lying
beside the clothes which she had taken off pre-
vious to doing her last great jump.
* * *
A certain Colonel of New South Wales
Volunteers was lately holding a review, or some-
thing. Anyhow, he got his men all mixed up and
couldn’t untie the knot. Still sitting in the saddle,
in full view of his expectant army, he calmly took
out the “ Drill Manual” and complacently began
to turn over the leaves. “Look at page 46!”
yelled a man from the ranks. The Colonel looked
at page 46 only to find that he had been “ had.”
“ Eh mon I” he coolly exclaimed, “ I really dinna
see anything aboot it on page forty-sax. Ye have
surely made a mistake.” New South Wales is
indeed a great and warlike nation.
* * *
The Hon. - High - Commissioner - for-New-
Guinea Romilly and Lord Cairns have reached
Sydney en route for New Guinea. Miss Romilly,
who arrived by the same vessel, is paying a long
visit to Lady Carington.
Admiral Tryon made a kind of mess of his
hospitality at Auckland. He seems to have
struck a healthy average from an old directory,
and among the invites to his “at home ” were a
judge who had been shifted to a district 800 miles
away, an official who had been dead six months,
an eminent citizen who had gathered in all
the spare cash of his sorrowing creditors and done
the Pacific slope, and an ex-bailiff whose aristo-
cratic name made the Admiral fancy his ancestors
had come in with the konkeror. The levanter,
the judge, and the corpse stayed away, but the
ex-bill-of-sale-man turned up and mooned about
the Nelson all day appraising the fittings from
sheer force of habit and running his professional
eye over the spoons. He recognised a lot of old
acquaintances in the glittering throng, and his
presence cast a tragic gloom over the scene.
The complaint about the incessant loud
conversation indulged in at all the Melbourne
theatres by the “Government House set” has
obtained ventilation in the Press not a day too
soon. The vulgar displays made by several
“fashionable” theatre-parties lately have been
much commented on. These persons comprise
some of the Melbourne “ beauties,” whose chief
charms evidently are not in their faces, which
have been familiar to the Melbourne public for
the last ten years er so ! They munch lollies, and
laugh and chatter all through the play, much to
the annoyance and disgust of decently-bred people
Why should they not go in the gallery, where
amongst the gods and larrikins they would be in
more congenial society, as these latter have taken
to amusing themselves by expectorating down on to
the occupants of pit and stalls?
* * *
Lady Loch, many will regret to hear, is
again seriously indisposed.
* • •
A wedding will shortly take place between
Mr Brocklebank, of N.S. Wales, and Miss Emma
Booth, of Kyneton, Victoria.
Mr. E. W. Wallington, Private Secretary
to Lord Carington, is rapidly recovering from his
accident and will be able to play in the forth-
coming tennis tournament.
A CHAT WITH MISS FORTESCUE.
(By A. B. ORIGINAL.)
[For the Bulletin.]
A VERY slight thin figure of medium height en-
veloped in a voluminous brown plush wrap, lined
inside with ermine ; a face just pretty and no
more, to my judgment—but perhaps my taste is
faulty; a neat small head, with the lightest of
brown hair charmingly arranged ; a sweet smile,
notwithstanding the disadvantage it possessed of
displaying somewhat irregular teeth; and a soft
affable manner—such were my first impressions
of Miss Fortescue when we were introduced on
the stage of the Grand Theatre, just after the
curtain had fallen on “ Pygmalion and Galatea.”
Lady Cairns—that might and should have been—
received me so graciously as to impress me with
the idea that one more name would have to be
jotted down on the long list of my “mashes;’
and thereby I fell into a fatuous (not to use the
expressive, if vulgar, word, “blooming”) error.
Upon further acquaintance I discovered to my
chagrin that Miss Fortescue’s condescension
meant simply “bis.” Miss Fortescue is every
inch a business woman, and everybody knows
that the affections of business women are happily
free from anything approaching impulsiveness.
I had spent the greater part of my life in Austra-
lia. Miss Fortescue had thoughts of a profes-
sional visit to that distant and benighted land.
Can you see it now ?
The celebrated lady invited me into her dressing
room, where, she seated in an easy chair and I on
the corner of atravelling-trunk, our chat began.
In saying “our chat” I am claiming credit to
which lam not entitled. The chat was Miss
Fortescue’s ; she asked me thirty questions in a
minute, without giving me time to reply, much
less to venture a quet yin return. I had come to
interview, and remained to be interviewed. “ Had
I spent my life in Australia ? Wasn’t it a very
beautiful country but for the blacks, the snakes,
and the mosquitoes ? Were there not heaps of
money to be made there l Did I come from Sydney
or from New South Wales? Was it true that I
I represented the most powerful and influential |
paper in the colonies ? Was it not a most respon-
sible position to hold ? Had I been in front that
evening, and did I like her Galatea ? ” Here my
fair interrogator paused for the first time, a*d,
looking me full in the face with her really fine
violet eyes, awaited a reply. She has a way of her
own of looking at you has Miss Fortescue, a
calm, sea-ching, “ now-you-musn’t-tell-me-a-
story,” sort of look that is very embarrassing. I
advise your local interviewer to wear blue spec-
tacles when Miss Fortescue arrives in Sydney.
LORD GUMBOIL.
The moral courage that blue spectacles impart is
marvellous. Did 1 like her Galatea? Of course I
did ! I was positively charmed with it. But I
blushed ; I know I did, for her Galatea is still far
from being a perfect performance, and I was not
wearing blue spectacles. At that moment Cap-
tain Wallace, Miss Fortescue’s indefatigable and
courteous business manager (correct expression,
eh I), put his head in at the door and announced
that the carriage and mamma and sister—notmine,
but Galatea’s—were waiting. The young lady
rose atonce. “I never keep mamma waiting,” she
said. “If you will call one morning this week,
Mr. Original, we might resume our chat. Would,
to-morrow be convenient ? Very well, I may ex-
pect you at twelve. The address is ,
Davies-street, Berkeley Square.”
I was in Miss Forteseue’s drawing-room at noon
the next day. It is a pleasant little room, abound-
ing with preJty knick-knacks, oriental rugs, and
cosy chairs. Art is represented by countless
photographs of all sizes, from the largest to the
modest vignette. Photographs on the walls in oak
and gilt frames ; photographs on the little fancy
tables and the piano in plush frame J; photographs
strewn about the mantlepifece without frames;
and huge albums filled with photographs to burst-
ing ; and all, without a sißgle exception, of Miss
Fortescue, I give you my word—Miss Fortescue
as Galatea, as Frou Frou, as Juliet; a full length,
a three-quarter face, a full' face, a profile, a bust,
and a head of Miss Fortescue. It must have been
a clever photographer that got ahead of the little
lady. (Give him three groans.—Ed. B.) I was
about to make a note of that photographer’s name
when I was taken aback by the entrance of Miss
Fortescue herself. What had she on ? As far as
I could judge, being somewhat near sighted, a
little French chalk, and just a wee artistic touch
of . Oh, the dress you mean ! I beg the fair
reader’s pardon. Her gown seemed to me to be
made up of Indian shawls, with long, soft lace at
the neck and sleeves; it fitted loosely, and was
altogether “ the Frenchiest thing.” No, she did
not wear a “crin” —indelicate question! No
well-dressed woman in either London or Paris
wears aught but a bustle now—l mean, of course,
as an improver. (That will be a guinea, please 1)
Miss Fortescue having settled herself cosily in a
chair, with a footstool for her dainty feet, got to
business at once. “To save you the trouble of
asking a number of questions, Mr. Original,” she
said, “I will tell you everything about myself
that I think will be of interest to you. My father,
as you have perhaps heard, was Mr. Finney, the
well-known coal merchant. As a child I had a
governess, a pony, and all the other luxuries that |
the children of wealthy people enjoy. When my 1
poor father failed and our circumstances were [
sadly reduced, I conceived the idea of making use [
of my accomplishments. I secured an introduc-
tion to Mr. D’Oyly Carte, before whom I sang.
The result was that I was engaged at the Savoy
almost immediately. My subsequent troubles
arose through my being introduced to Lord
Garmoyle in the Green—l mean the drawing-room
of a friend.”
Miss Fortescue must, of course, have referred
to mental, not material troubles—to the lacerated
heart, blighted affections, and all the rest of it.
When the noble Gumboil jilted her, and breach of
promise proceedings were on the tapis, Miss F.’s
midest &3 per week at the . Savoy was quickly
changed to a “plummy” £l5 at the Court
Theatre.
“And now," pursued Miss Fortescue, “you
would probably like to know why my engage-
. meDt with Lord Garmoyle was broken off, and
unfortunately I am scarcely able to
tell you The only explanation I
ever had was that the family
learnt upon inquiry that an actress
could not be presented at Court.
When the Queen heard of that
abßurd explanation she was very
angry, because it was quite un
true. Lady Martin—who was, as
you know, Helen Faucet —is a
great favourite cf Her Majesty’s,
and Adelini Patti was also received
at Court until the Nicolini scandal
arose. No doubt you have heard
from persons who always know
more about their neighbours’ busi-
ness than their own, many ridi-
culous explanations of my break
with Lord Garmoyle.”
I had. A man who should have
known something about it told
me that when she visited the
Cairns people at Bournemouth,
Miss Fortescue did not conduct
herself in a sufficiently refined
manner to please Papa and Mam-
ma Cairns. His story was that
when afternoon tea was brought
into the drawing-room, the young
lady gushed, "Oh! dear Lady
Cairns, do let me pour out the
tea,” and that when she and Gum-
boil were onoe about starting for
a ride, she spoke thus to a gentle-
man visitor who stood at the hall
door seeing them off, “ Won’t you
come, too, old chappie ?” I now
thoroughly believe that that man
lied. If Miss Fortescue is any-
thing she is exceedingly ladylike.
She is also i lucky and ener-
getic—since the father’s failure
she has maintained her mother
and sister by her exertions —and
she well deserves to have Bcored
off the Cairns family as she did.
“ Have you determined to visit
Australia ? ” I asked.
“ No, Mr. Original, I have not ”
the voice, by the way, is very
sympathetic “ The announce-
ment in the papers to that effect
was quite ptemature. In fact, I
expect you to help me make up
my mind..” Here she produced a
large map of Australia and New
Zealand, which she spread upon
her knees, signing me to draw
my chair closer. Then we bent
over the map and marked out a
tour, and in a very few minutes
she had wormed from me—l
couldn’t have helped myself had I
wished to—every “tip ” I was in a
position to supply her with.
“ And now,” I asked when the
examination was over, “ have you
made up your mind to go to
Australia ? ”
“ Yes, Mr. Original ; thanks in
a very great measure to you, I
have. I (ball go armed with
an efficient company and a reper-
toire of novelties London suc-
cesses, if possible. If lam as
well received in the Antipodes as
I have been in the provinces I
shall have no cause to complain.
I have met but few Australians,
but those I have met 1 have liked exceedingly.”
I concealed the violent blush which dyed my
yellow cheek at this compliment by diving under
Ihe chair for my hat. She had evidently not met
*»»***. Miss Fortescue—qnite unhappy be-
cause I would take no sherry —came to the door
with me, shook my rough, unworthy paw cor-
dially with her own small, white right hand, gave
me her sweetest smile, trusted that 1 would not
get wet and catch a cold —it was raining terribly
and, murmuring a soft “goodbye,” shut the
door on me. Then she said to herself as she re-
turned to the drawing-rcom : “ A very nice gen-
tlemanly fellow, and so useful.” And I walked
up the wet street cursing my thoughtlessness in
not leaving my gloves behind me, so that I
might have had an excuse for calling again. Then
I remembered that my gloves were odd and full of
holes, and was thankful.
Perhaps Gumboil has come to Australia as
advance agent for Miss Fortescue. Who knows ?
Ho : “You really went too far in your
conduct with Captain Fitz Henry at the Ball last
night. Don't yon know that you’re a married
woman !" She : “ Yes, but he didn’t."


BRIEF MENTION.
Why is Alfred like Nosey Bob ? Cos he
presides over the Noose. Brutal conundrum by
our senior office-boy.
How is it that, 'out of all the prisoners
recently convicted in Sydney, none have been
sentenced to be flogged ?
Tho proprietor of the Universal Help
Company, Melbourne, sued a widow for £2 16s.
After that, what is in a name t
Ah Sin, of Charters Towers (Q.), was
haul-.d before the local Dogberry for stealing a
pair of shoes. Ah Sin on two soles.
The manager of the Melbourne Refrigerat-
ing and Agency Company is Mr. Hotson. It is to
be hoped that his name won't affect the meat.
Crime has increased so in Melbourne that
more police courts are to be established in the city
proper. One is urgently wanted into which toady-
ism shall not enter.
The Melbourne D.T. cries out for a
Federal Review to be held this year. We have
had one Federal Review too many already. It
was owned by Mortimer-Franklyn.
The Melbourne Presbytery has written to
the Scots’ Church authorities that all it (the Pres-
bytery) did was done in the interests of religion (!).
Score up one other lie, Father of them, please.
The Melbourne papers set down every
real and imaginary burglar in their city as having
come from Sydney. This results from having 50 re-
jected Parliamentary candidates knockiog around.
Derivations made easy. A Sydney High
School boy wrestles with the difficulty thusly :
Teacher: “Rons of apoplexy I’’ Boy (unhesita-
tatingly) : “ Apo, to fall down; plexy, dead in
the street.”
From Sydney Evening News :—“ ‘ The
Evening News is the only local paper we know
here,’ said a speaker at Rookwood last night.”
Very likely. Sydney general cemetery is at
Rook wood.
A pig fell out of a butcher’s cart in Mac-
quarie-street, Sydney, one day last week. “Where
did it run to ? ” we hear you ask. W hy, to the
door of the Legislative Assembly, of course : one
more swine who wanted to get into Parliament.
A telegram from Belfast (Vic.): “The
late Sergeant-Major Jackson will be buried with
military honours this afternoon. There will be an
immense funeral.” Immense ! We are panting
to hear how many were buried along with the
sergeant-major.
The N.S. W. reredos disease has broken
out almost at the other side of the earth, in
that appropriately-named place, Parsonstown, Ire-
land- They wrote no column-and-a-half letters
to the papers, but simply poured tar over the
twelve apostles.
Deposed pawnbroker Margoshis last week,
in a Sydney court:—“l knew the deceased (a
married woman) since 18S5, aad was under en-
gagemtni to marry her as soon as she was di-
vorced." We have never heard the situation de-
fined so neatly before.
When Lori Daorhurst, under cross-ex-
amination, hazarded the conjecture that Mentor
was a Roman, the Bench wagged their old heads
approvingly. “ Yer carn’t lick the nobility at
laming,” murmured one law-dispenser who picked
up his classics in a pawn-shop.
At Thargomindah (Q.) the liberty of the
press seems to be still in its infancy. The local
Her ald explains the non-appearance of the usual
budget of news from an outlying township by
stating that the residents have threatened to give
the correspondent fits if he writes any more, and
he has accordingly been “ terrorised into silence.”
Again. A little “ad.” from the S.M.
Herald, of 18th March, 1887 :
“ jFOR SALE, 6 cows and customers, or customers
without the cows ; and if not s >ld between this
and Monday, intend to sell the cows in Mr. Inglis’ sale-
yard.”
Just so.
For ten days from 16th inst. the citizens
of Sydney are recommended by Mayor Riley not
to wash their free and independent carcases. It
is presumed by the public that the present scarcity
of water comes from the fact that the aldermen,
who never tub except on the occasion of the
reigning monarch’s jubilee, are now performing
their ablutions.
At Hotham (Melb.) Police Court a witness
stated that he was “ an invalid ” in answer to the
usual “ What are you ? ” In the same court, a
few days previously, a hoary-headed tinker ob-
jected to take the oath because he was a “ dys-
peptic.” The tinker either meant to say that he
was an “ agnostic,” or wished to insinuate that a
man’s religious opinions are governed by his liver.
“The leader can imagine what the man
felt,” says a London paper, “ when coming into
tha house to find the body of his wife swinging
there before him.” Yes, we can just imagine how
he felt. The fire was out and there was no tea
ready, and the baby was unwashed and howling,
and the from an who should have looked after
these things was calmly swinging there. We would
have felt very much the same way ourselves.
A Victorian commercial traveller, who
has “cheek,” lately called on a country
storekeeper to solicit an order. “No order
from me 1 ” bawled the countryman; “ I
only deal with people I know.” “ Why, you have
given me an order before this,” a33erted the com-
mercial. “ Never 1 ” vociferated the storekeeper.
“ Yes, you did," calmly replied the traveller;
“ you gave me an order —to clear out of this store
last trip.” They traded.
A very interesting paper was read by the
Rev. Dr. M’Donald at the last meeting of the
Royal Society of Victoria. The title was ‘ The
Oceanic Languages Shemitic.” Dr. Macdonald
holds they are. We dare3ay he is right. The
only radical difference we can see between the
Jew as we know him and the native of the South
Sea Islands is that the former contents himself with
taking all your property while the latter does that
and eats you into the bargain. But perhaps the
abstinence of the former is merely a reluctant
concession to civilisation.
“Dr.” Sabatowski, well-known to the
medical world of Sydney as an abortionist, has
passed in his checks. The story is a miserable
one. He performed an operation on an unhappy
woman named Caroline Yates, at Redfern, and
her death ensued a few hours later. An autopsy
showed that she had suffered terrible internal in-
juries. The “ doctor ” was wanted at the inquest,
and 18 hours later his dead body was found lying
in the bush near Hurstville. He had taken poison
to save himself from being hanged.
Law Reform.
There is to be a Commission appointed to advise
reforms in the practice of the New South Wales
Law Courts. Two of the members are Darley,
Chief Justice, and M’Millan, M.L.A. Darley
is, of course, inclined to the existing order of
things, and M’Million, M.L.A., knows nothing
about the subject. We can point out a few places
where reform is urgently needed. For instance,
suppose a hard-up individual owes his bank (say)
fifty pounds for an overdraft; the bank issues a
writ, and the man enters an appearance to gain
time. This costs him three shillings and sixpence.
Then a declaration is filed and the defendant
pleads ‘ 1 never indebted.” This costs him one
shilling to file the plea. So, by an outlay of four
shillings and sixpence (supposing he knows enough
law to prepare the two documents referred to,
and in any case for, say, two guineas) he can put
his creditor to the following absurd expense:
The bank must set the case down for trial at a
Co3t of two pounds ten shillings. Then, although
they know there will be and qan be no defence ;
although they know that the debtor can at the
utmost barely pay the debt, and certainly cannot
pay any extra costs ; although the whole matter
to be proved lie 3 in a nutshell and could be man-
aged by any intelligent boy of 16 years of age, yet
a brief must be prepared and handed to a counsel
learned in the law: the witnesse3mustbeexamined
by thesolicitorforthe creditor,and theirstatements,
the pleadings in the case, and a full statement of :
the whole matter in question must be put into j
this brief ; and then, on the ca9e being called on,
the horsehair-headed gentleman proceeds to take ;
a verdict —a performance occupying say eight
minutes. And for this performance the client ;
must pay a fee to this counsel of at least seven ]
guineas. There is no way out of it. The solici- !
tor knows all the facts, has had daily intercourse
with the witnesses, and would require no brief to j
put the matter through, But he must not be |
heard even in an undefended case He may be a
man of the highest respectability, and grey with
A SELECTOR’S APPEAL
THE MINISTER: “WELL, BUT YOU SEE, MY GOOD MAN, YOU’VE FORFEITED
YOUR SELECTION THROUGH NON-RESIDENCE ”
DOWN-TRODDEN SELECTOR: “BUT THAT WASN’T ANY FAULT OF MINE. THEY
DRAGGED ME OFF TO GAOL FOR TWO YEARS. 1 WANTED TO LIVE ON MY
SELECTION, BUT THE GOVERNMENT WOULDNT LET ME.”
(Apjxal enthusiastically upheld.)
years of legal care, but he must hand over the
control of the matter to perhaps some squeaky-
voiced boy, fresh from the university, who is
generally chosen because he will do the work
cheaply. It may be argued that the junior bar
must live—that is, in fact, the only argument.
But —to borrow a venerable cynicism—we cer-
tainly fail to see the necessity. Of course the
plaintiff gets his costs, but in nine cases out of ten
the defendant has no money to pay them. Then
there is another matter. In contested Will cases,
even if the party who disputes the will withdraws
his opposition, and allows the matter to proceed ex-
parte, the amount of briefing and feeing necessary
to get an uncontested matter through is something
shameful. Every step has to be taken by counsel.
Then on the divorce side- Every adulterer must
be cited even though dead. Therefore if an
alleged adulterer die the petitioner has to go
through the solemn farce of briefiog a counsel to
apply to the court for leave to dispense with
serving the petition on the dear deceased. This
was actually done the other day; and the presid-
ing Judge made some demur about giving the
order ! We suppose if he had refused the solici-
tors for the petitioner wouid have had to kill a
common-law clerk to follow the late adulterer to
Hades with the petition. Again, there is no suffi-
ciently speedy remedy against actions or defences
by men of straw. We know several cases where
notoriously impecunious people have got posses-
sion of property, say holding it after the mortgagee
has sold it. In order to give possession to the
purchaser he must go through the expense and
delay of an ejectment suit. He must pay his
counsel his seven or ten guineas although there
may be no shadow of a doubt that the defendant
will not appear and has no possible defence if he
did. Then, having got his verdict, the plaintiff
makes the defendant insolvent, and gets one
farthing in the pound and has to lose all these
extra unnecessary costs. In the meantime, while
the ejectment suit is pending, the bloated
defendant is keeping pigs in the front garden
| and using the back yard palings to light the Are
J with. In all such cases, unless the persons in
| possession of property can give security that they
will hand it over undamaged, they should be
made turn out until the ejectment is decided.
We have just mentioned a few out of many points
where the practice of the New South Wales courts
is all for the lawyers and all against the public.
We have referred to practice points only. Hun-
dreds of such matters could be cited ; and we
have said nothing about the wearisome heart-
breaking delay which seems to be inseparable
(though why, Heaven only knows) from legal pro-
ceedings. We have said nothing of the cases
where, term after term, the same matter comes up
and is sent over because there are not enough
j udges to form a bench under the enactment that
the Full Court shall consist of three judges, and
d 063 not allow the judge who tried the case to sit;
then there are the ecclesiastical frauds, when on
Thursdays the Junior Bar roll forth from their
garrets to the burial of the dead and move pro-
bates, &c., at a guinea a motion; if the deceased
owned property over £5OO in value, then the
Counsel must be fee’d even though his debts
reduce the amount for his family to a five-pound
note. But these thiogs should all be taken into
consideration by a Commission of the nature pro-
posed. And we hope that a reform in the practice
of the Courts will lead to a reform in the law, of
which we stand urgently in need.
The bells have recently been tolling for
the death of Beau Brummel’s niece in London.
The Melbourne Daily Telegraph reports
that Sir W. J. Clarke, Lady Clarke, and suite, at-
tended a recent ball.” Just fancy ! The “muzzy”
son of the avaricious butcher with a suite !
Dear Bulletin, — It is sickening to read
the reports of the troubles in Tonga, each side
blaming the other, but the most sickening yarn of
the lot is in to day’s Sydney Daily Telegraph—
a paper edited by a Wesleyan ex-clergyman—
signed “ Freethinker.” If he, the correspondent,
is not a Wesleyan, red-hot, then I'm not alive. I
have lived in the South Seas 16 years, and know
the Toagans well. They are the most conceited
race of men in the world, and are the most bigoted
Christians, or I should say Wesleyan?, that could
be found. Tonga for this last 50 years has been
the hotbed of Wesleyanism, and were I to
tell you one hundredth part of the game 3 played
by Wesleyan missionaries there you would not be-
lieve me. The missionaries have made themselves
more powerful than the King (they carried on the
same game in Fiji under the rule of Cakobau),
interfering in everything, both civil and religious,
till at last they have overshot the mark. I assure
you that even the Jesuits in France were not half
as bad as the Wesleyans in Tonga. Their objec-
tions to Mr. Thurston show to all who know them
that they have a bad case, for there is no man in
the South Seas better able to judge them than J.
B. Thurston, who is up to all their little games, and
understands the Tongan character thoroughly.
No ; they want the new Governor of Fiji (who
knows nothing of Tongans or of Tonga, and whom
they can probably “ stuff ”) to adjudicate.
Mr. Baker was formerly a Wesleyan mis-
sionary and no doubt saw his way to
do something for himself. It is Cardinal
Wolsey and Henry the Bth over again, only King
George, though a nigger, is an angel compared
with England's Henry. The poor old fellow has
put up with the tyranny of the Wesleyans till he
can stand it no longer, and he, no doubt, wants
to free his country before he dies of the incubus
of Wesleyanism. You, no doubt, remember
that Hau-Hauism in New Zealand was the child
of bigoted English Churchism, and this ism in
Tonga is the child of bigoted Wesleyanism and
intolerance, and the natural consequence of all
religious tyranny. I don’t believe in cruelty, but
what is going on in Tonga is nothing to what went
on in good King Hal’s day’s. —Yours truly, South
Sea Rat. March 18th, 1887.
PEOPLE I HAVE MET.
II.
THE OLD HAND.
It was many years ago, and in the then Far
North of Queensland, that I met the “ old hand.”
Burketown at that time was a rising township on
it’s fiist legs, and the “ Plains of Promise ” were
still supposed to come up to their name. Bobby
Towns was the local deity, and J.G.M. his prophet,
and the proprietor and editor of a popular Queens-
land humorous journal was located in those lati-
tudes accumulating bush experience for the
future. It was on the Flinders, on what was
known as the dry stage, that the old hand came to
out camp, and with the usual bonhomie of that
period unsaddled his knocked-up mare and sat
himself down in our midst.
So far as appearances went he was grizzled
enough and dirty enough and ragged enough for
an old hand who had existed since the days of the
earliest Governors of N.S. Wales, but when it
came to conversation he topped everyone. We
were rather a quiet lot. Pat W., since dead, poor
fellow, never spoke unless there was a row on, or
a rough horse to ride. Jack It., also gone over to
the great majority, smoked two figs of tobacco
daily and thought a great deal. The rest of us
were of the same colour, excepting an irrepressible
new-chum, so the “ old hand ” had it all his own
way.
The new-chum was away after his horses when
the old hand arrived and located himself amongst
us, and after disposing of a most satisfactory feed,
commenced to hold forth.
“ Talk about blacks ! why, when I was first
down on the Paroo we knew how to deal with
’em. Why, the fellows at Richmond Downs told
me it wasn’t safe for a fellow to travel alone on
this ’ere track. Lord 1 how I did laugh in my
sleeve to think of warning me, a fellow who
knocked over niggers afore those men got rid of
the smell of the lime juice. Why, some of you
fellows remember old on the , how he
slated 'em when they used to rob the shepherds'
huts. I was one of the men who helped him
poison the .”
“ No, you don’t,” said Pat, taking his pipe out
of his mouth; “I’ve heard that yarn 999 times
from every part of Australia, and the next man
who tells it to me dies."
‘ ‘All right, boss : I expocted you’d have heard of
it, no need to repeat it,” returned the old hand,
“ but perhaps you never heard of the way me and
Dinnie collared the Jewboy’s gang.”
“ Look here,” I remarked, “ if you say another
word on that subject I’ll blow a Government road
through you.”
“ Well, boys, of course you must know all about
it ; you re not a camp of limejuicers ; but as I
was saying, when we first took the cattle out on
the Dawson the blacks there was as bad as they
could stick. Why, when Wills was killed I was
close alongside the very worst fellow of the crowd
a fellow we called Samson. I gave him the
name, as he used to turn the grindstone at such a
rate. Lord ! I just fetched him one with the axe
when the fight began, and he was out of it.
Course you’ve heard about the horse standing
tied up to the fence all through the scrimmage,
and how I gave it to the cook to ride to the next
station, on .”
By the time this kind of thing had been going on
'or a few hours the old hand had smoked all my
tobacco, and was now loafing on Jack, who, after
hs usual fashion, was thinking a great deal but
lot saying much, and as he handed the remains of
his second fig to our visitor remarked. “I suppose
you've been a longtime out here, mate 1 ”
“ A long time ! Why, I was in the first riots in
Victoria—stood in the blockade there, or stockade,
or whatever they call it. Why, I remember when
a fellow had only to turn out for half-an-hour in
the morning to fill his pocket with nuggets picked
out of solid blue clay. Bless you, I could tell you
yarns about that time that would make your hair
curl. Why, in one night Bob Thacker and I
knocked down a clear thousand ; tell you what it
is, they don’t breed such men now a days. Why,
we fellows of the old time used to think nothing
of tackling -”
Hulloo ! ” said Pat, raising himself on his
elbow, “ What’s up with the horses ? ”
We all listened, and in the silence of the even-
ing heard the bells of the horses ringing wildly, as
though they were galloping in their hobbles. We
listened for a moment, then said Pat, sinking back
on his blankets, ‘ ‘ I suppose Martin (the new-chum)
has got amongst them.”
“ What’s become of the old tramp ? ” said Jack.
We looked around and saw him emerging from
behind a tree.
“ I remember meeting a fellow once,” he re-
marked without any hesitation, “ a German, who
carried nothing but an empty flour-bag with him.
Used to travel in the worst of the outside coun-
try, and at night used to pull the flour-hag over
him and gammon he was an ant hill. Lord ! The
yarns that fellow used to tell about the blacks, and
the way they used to sit down and have smoke-ho
all round him, thinking he was an ant-bed all the
time. I thought I’d try it with my blanket just
now if the niggers came.”
At this moment the new-chum turned up in
camp. I suppose we were all pretty tired of our
guest by this time and very glad to shunt him on
to Martin for a spell ; but no sooner had he
(Martin) set eyes on him than he yelled, “Hallo i
Gozzy 1 what on earth are you doing up here ? ”
“ Who are you calling ‘ Gozzy,’ young lime-
juice ?" remarked our visitor.
“ Why you,” persisted Martin. “ Didn’t you
come out with me in the William Bole 18 months
ago?”
“ No 1 ” roared the old hand.
“ But you did, old Gosling Green. Why you've
got the anchor tattoed on the back of your hand
there. One of the sailors did it, so that you could
pass for an old salt.”
“ Do you know him, Martin ? ” said Jack, cut-
ting up the last of his second fig.
“ Of course I do, why everybody in Uxminster
knows him—how about that five bob you owe me
Martin demanded.
“ Look here, mate, I’m going to sleep—l can’t
stop up all night talking to you remarked the
discomfited “ old hand.” And he retired to his
blankets.
He left early the next morning, and when he ar-
rived at the next shanty, known as the “ Dead
Finish ” we found that he had stuck up an account
to our debit as one of the party; we paid it out of
compliment to his cheek, and I have never seen
him since ; but his class still exist up north and
proudly style themselves “ Old Gulf Hands.”
DELCOMYN.
The other day a N.S.W. commercial tra-
veller, who was asked by his employer to furnish a
detailed account of his travelling-expenses, for
some time refused to comply with the request.
Ultimately he gave in, and, having procured a roll
of wall-paper, he spent a whole fortnight in com-
piling a list of drinks.


“THE BULLETIN.”
ADVERTISING CHARGES.
One
Insertion.
Per Inch, Single Column, ordinary £lO 0
Paragraph or special matter at double rates.
A series of insertions by arrangement.
Advertisements of a questionable nature not
taken at any price.
ALL ADVERTISEMENTS TO BE PREPAID.
No Agents.
CAUTION.
*3T Printed Receipts on the light-green paper
upplied to its collectors, are alone recognised by
he Bulletin.
This
WICKED
WORLD
In Gippsland a plague of spiders is help-
ing the temperance cause by destroying the hop
crop. Another mean attempt to deprive the poor
man of his beer An authoress praises N.Z.
oysters. Like N.Z. earthquakes, they open and eat
well Ruddy gore is about to flow in the Ray-
mond Terrace (N.S.W.) district, the cause being
a savage criticism in the Gloucester Gazette on
a novel written by Harold Stephen.
# * *
A Manchester man hanged himself, leaving
behind this written caution :—“ When you marry
mind who you marry, and beware of fiendish
mother-in-law.” When Guinness’ Brewery was
floated for £6,000,000 three-fifths of the shares
were allotted to the Guineas family, whose interest
is now worth £12,000,000 at market-prices The
British Primrose League is to have a threepenny
weekly organ of its 0wn.... ..Patient: “ Why do
you watch the thermometer on the wall so
closely?” Nurse: “Because the doctor said if
the temperature riz I should give you the quinine.”
Epitaph from an English cemetery :
Alien.
Who plucked this lovely flower ?
The Master.
The gardener held his peace.
James Payn says : “I know of nothing so beauti-
ful or more fitting than this on the grave of a
child ” Only £500,000 a year are spent on the
London hospitals, while £1,000,000 are voted to
send vests to the heathen of Borrioboola Gha....
A noose-paper—a death warrant... Barber : “ Bay-
rum ?” Customer (slightly intoxicated) : “ Yesh,
’bout three fingersh.” Young Man:’ “I’ve
come to ask for your daughter’s hand.” Irate
Parent: “You get out; leave, I say.” Young
Man: “ But whither ? ” Irate Parent: “I don’t
care a dam.” So he eloped wither “Waiter,
why do you give me such a dirty napkin as this ?”
Waiter, blandly smiling: “Oh, beg pardon, sir;
got folded the wrong way, sir. There, sir ; how’s
that now ?”
Wales has gone to Berlin as representative
of ‘ ‘ Her Gracious •’ at the festivities to be held in
honour of the birthday of old Emperor William.
This visit will probably cost the British tax-payer
at least £50,000.
The Cairns (Q.) Chronicle has scored a
victory, the Attorney-General refusing to file a
bill against it for damaging the character of a
local auctioneer. It forgives, though, as it says :
“ We are not lixely to swing off our equilibrium
through excessive joy, and neither do we harbour
any resentment towards Macnamara.” This
means that the editor will not for the present kill
either himself or Macnamara.
“ Her Gracious ” has sent a message to
the Caar, felicitating him on his recent escape
from the plot against his life, and the Duke
d’Aumale, who has been very properly kicked out
of France by the Republican Government, has for-
warded £5OO to the Imperial Institute Fund as a
mark of his attachment to Queen Victoria—in
other words, as a mark of his attachment to
monarchical principles and to himself.
Dear Bulletin,— l see by your issue of
to-day that the wages of water-borers in the West
are irregularly paid. When I had charge of a
party near Hay last year we were often months
without pay, and, as my men had wives and large
families, they had unnecessary hardships and
humiliations to put up with. The last pay we
had was five months due, and on payment my
services were dispensed with on plea of retrench-
ment, but really because I had accused the Min-
ing Department of neglect and dilatoriness. —H.
W. Ford, late senior foreman of water augers,
Cunninghanustreet, Northcote, Victoria, 19th
March, 1887.
The Argus gave a picnic to its employes
at Caulfield racecourse on Saturday. There was
he usual amount of twaddle in the speech-mak-
ng. The present firm of Wilson and Mackinnon,
t was averred, loved every reporter and printer
as a brother. Gowen Evans (the ‘•Jeames”of
The Age) was emphatic as to the dear ties of long
service which bound all, from editor to devil, to
W. and M. The young manager, L. C. Mac-
kinnon, drivelled out his affection for the staff.
The champagne elicited cheers. Is it worth
while criticising such humbug ? The Argus is
by no means remarkable for its lavish treatment
of its literary staff. Sooner or later its best men
leave it. Windsor, the present editor of the Age,
resigned. Hugh George followed suit, owing to the
intrigues of certain personages in high places.
The Argus has lately lost Henry Gullett, Alec.
Britten, and A. C. Westlake, now all in Sydney.
In Melbourne, Harry Short, Harry Britten, Mel-
vin, Allen, and other good men whose places can-
not be filled have left the Argus for the service of
he Age and Telegraph. David Watterston, the
aithful, is one of the very few old hands remain-
ing. There are rumours in the Yorick Club that
“The Vagabond” has not only resigned but
intends sueing the Argus for damages. This is a
triumphant record of the ability of the young
manager in maintaining “ cordial relations ” with
the staff. Since Hugh George left the Argus ten
years ago it has been steadily going down in the
estimation of the best of the newspaper men.
A QUIET DINNER.
Although Australia is rich in many things,
in the matter of eating we are far and away be-
hind the rest of the globe. With the resources at
hand there is no reason why we should not be as
well up in the good things of this life as are our
friends in ol her parts of the world. How often do
we hear people from England, from America,
from India, and especially from La Belle France
remark that they will have to travel home in
order to get something good to eat. And in many
cases they mean it. The usual hotel breakfast in
Australia consists of chops, steak, sausages, eggs,
tea or coffee. Such a breakfast in a climate like
ours is enough to make a man with a delicate
appetite wish he had been born an Esquimaus.
The conventional dinner, likewise, begins with a
thick soup and ends with sodden cheese, the in-
tervening space being filled in with heavy joints
and rich dishes while vegetables are conspicuous
by their absence. Such a repast should not be
called a dinner—it is a feed— and a feed which
could only be thoroughly enjoyed after a hard day
among the Polar bears or a sixty-mile journey on
a dog-sledge with the thermometer below Zero and
a head wind.
All this is preamble apropos of a little
dinner we gave the other evening. A friend of
ours, cosmopolitan like ourselves, whose handsome
eyes are luminous with intelligence, and whose
only fault lies in his being addicted to pronounce
the word here as though it were spelt h-e-a-h,
chanced to remark that he would like something
good to eat. and that he was in despair. “ All
right, we remarked in our off-hand way, “ dine
with us to-morrow night.” He came, he saw, and
we conquered ! Herrs d'ceuvres, in the shape of
boned anchovies in oil, and caviare, gave a gentle
impetus to the appetite so that the shark'p-fln and
pigeon-egg soup—clear as crystal, nutritious, ap-
petising—was quietly absorbed in gratifying
silence. Passing the fish and coming to the first
entrbe —Qrenouille d la poulette - our friend could
no longer restrain his astonishment. “My deah
fellow,” said he, “ shark-fln soup, with pigeon
egg, is a triumph, but frogs in A ustralia, how
on earth ” “Wait a second,” we re-
marked quietly, while secretly enjoying his
undoubted admiration and enjoyment. The next
course we presented to our astonished friend con-
sisted of ortolans a V Italien, and after several of
the more conventional Australian dishes we
brought our unique little dinner to a close with
some fromage de Bris, than which none was
more palatable in Paris. “ And how,” said our
friend, as we sipped our cafe noir, and enjoyed a
quiet smoke, “ how on earth did you manage
such a dinner as that in Australia, which,
though not elaborate would not have injured the
reputation of the best chef in all Paris?” “My
dear fellow,” we remarked, in that easy and pleas-
ant style which is produced by a good dinner,
coffee, and a cigar, “My dear fellow, let usexplain.”
The soup, we confess, puzzled us, for we had to
explore the Chinese quarter and give vent
to whole dictionaries of pigeon-English before the
dried-shark’s fin was procured. And pigeon eggs
are by no means easy to obtain. However,
“ Labor omnia vincit,” and you have en
joyed the soup. Frogs we often have for
dinner, and you will admit that nothing is
more delicious. The modus operantli of pro-
curing them is as follows: —On a sultry night
when the moon is full (and ourselves in accord
with the moon) we arm ourselves with a dark
lantern and a pliable walking-stick—also a pair
of shears and a bag for the game. Thus equipped
we sally forth to the edge of a morass which is
not many leagues distant. Here the frogs come
up to feed among the grasses, and here with the
aid of the lantern we skilfully tap them on the
head with the walking-stick. Having so tapped
them, we gently sever their hind legs from the
rest of their anatomy with the shears, and place
them (the legs) in the bag. When a sufficient
number are bagged, skinned, and gracefully re-
posing in the ice-chest, sprinkled with salt, a
more inviting dish, in appearance, it would be
hard to find. This is the secret of the frogs—a
secret which we discovered ourselves after some
study ” ——. “ But,” exclaimed our friend, “ Or-
tolans —there are no Ortolans in Australia?”
“ Granted,” said we ; “ but there are sparrows, on
whose heads there is a price. We do not claim the
reward, but follow the direction given in Brown
ing’s last poem and grill them on a silver skewer
interspaced with layers of bacon, sage toast, &c.,
and thus transform them into Ortolans, Italian
fashion.” “ One word more,” said our guest,
“ and I have done. Where do you obtain your
Bris cheese !”. In the first shop,” we replied,
“ where they sell the ordinary cream cheese.
This we take home and rub well with pepper and
salt, allowing it to dry for several days. At the
end of that time we have a perfect substitute for
l romage de Bris." “J. have learned,” said our
friend, as after a pleasant talk he rose to go, “ I
have learned that it is possible to dine in Aus-
tralia, Good night 1 ” And we retired to our
V.C. even as one who wraps the drapery of his
couch about him and lies down to pleasant dreams.
Some people in South Australia will be
deeply interested to hear that Mr. Heinrich
Felbermann, the German-Jewish gentleman who
runs London Life in the interests ol the reigning
dynasty and high Toryism in general, has been
committed for trial for criminally libelling Dr.
Bird, of Colin-Campbell divorce-case celebrity.
Alfred Sykes, a Melbourne plumber, went
after a job a few days ago, but returned to his
home unsuccessful. His wife having asked him
to take some tea, he briefly replied : “People who
don’t work should not eat.” And then going into
the back yard he hanged himself to a rafter. If
everyone thought and acted like poor Sykes, what
a dreadful dearth of politicians there would be in
New South Wales!
FACTS ABOUT CONSUMPTION.
but the effect of kidney poison, working in the
substance of the lung.
Read a simple illustration. Dip the tip end of
your finger in a strong acid. Soon the flesh will
be burned away, and then will follow a festering
sore. Wash this sore every minute of every hour
of the day (as the kidney poisoned blood does the
lungs! with even the mildest sort of an acid, and
in a short time it will eat away and eventually
rot off the entire hand and arm.
Precisely this condition of things exists in the
lungs. Kidney poison is called uric acid, of which
there is formed in the body every day enough to
kill two men if taken in a single dose. A tender-
ness developes. either because of hereditary lung
weakness, or because of the taking of a violent
cold. The kidney acid immediately attacks this,
the weakest point in the system, and it soon be-
comes inflamed, and the person worries just a
little about it. After a while he goes to his
doctor, who puts him on cod liver oil to keep up j
his strength, which night sweats and constantly-
increasing cough has impaired. But the kidney
poison is doing its work every minute, every hour,
every day and night, and by-and-by one lung is
either solid with pus, or has been entirely coughed
out. Then comes another of many hemorrhages,
and soon our friend is very pale, breathes very
short, gives forth a glassy stare from the eye, and,
protesting every day, that he “feels stronger, and
will soon be out again ; ” he suddenly loses breath,
and is gone.
After death, examination discloses the fact that
the kidney poison, the terrible uric acid, has done
its work far too well, for it has rotted and om-
pletely eaten up the substance of each lung.
What is the conclusion ? No person who has
reason to fear consumption, either by inheritance
or acquirement, should hesitate for a single hour
as to his course of action. It is impossible to
effect a cure of consumption, or any well-seated
lung disease, if the blood is corrupted with the
kidney poison, or uric acid. It is however,
possible, and has been done in thousands of cases,
to prevent and cure fatal lung disease, coughs,
fevers, pneumonia, and cor sumption by ridding
the blood of all its kidney poison or uric acid. It
is this wonderful ard exclusive power of Warner’s
safe cure that has given new hope and new life to
so many, many thousands who had evidently been
selected to fill a consumptive’s grave, and would
have been there to-day but for the victory they
won over their disease —not by tbeir doctor's cod
liver oil doses, but by that wonderful remedy,
Warner’s safe cure. To all who fear death
“ In consumption's ghastly form,”
we come with the assurance that if your lungs
are wasting away under the influence of the
dreadful uric acid, our Warner’s safe cure, by
neutralising and removing this acid as fast as it is
formed, will carry it out through nature's channels,
and thereby relieve the weakened lungs.
It is with a deal of comfort and satisfaction
that wc make this statement to the world of con-
sumptives. We do not profess to cure advanced
consumption by Warner’s safe cure, but we do say
that all forms of lung irritation and inflammation
caused by kidney acid (and such forms include
consumption, phthisis, pneumonia, lung fever,
etc.) can be prevented, and, if taken in time,
cured by generous use of Warner's safe cure, and
our position is verified by the personal experience
of thousands of sufferers.
You, man or woman, threatened with consump-
tion, try this philosophical and successful treat-
ment. It can do you no harm. It may save your
life. •
The Melbourne Age says:—“Hayter's figures
show that consumption caused 1384 deaths in 1885,
being 25 more than in 1884, and that during that
time it has killed more than 13 to every 10,000 of
the population. This is almost as large a propor-
tion as obtains in Great Britain, and it shows that
climatic conditions have not so much to do with
the disease as is popularly supposed, and that it
is just as difficult to stamp it out in the soft
Ionian weather of these southern lands as it is in
the fog-charged atmosphere of London, where,
according to the sarcasm of the Frenchman, a fine
day only differs from a murky one as looking up
a chimney differs from looking down one ”
Now, then, we are prepared to show that over
half the cases of consumption are really nothing
Sydney Roller Coaster.
BELMORE PARK, every Afternoon and Evening.
aRE AT SUCCESS. Thousands riding every
day! Greatest scientific novelty of the
age ! Car travels up-hill without motive power.
Bring your family, and enjoy yourselves.
BELMORE PARK, Belmore Park. Beautifully
illuminated with Electric Lights. Band Concert
each evening. Polite attendants; iced refresh-
ments. Single ticket, 3d.; or 5 tickets. Is.
R. H. DONNOLLY, Manager,
Notice to Visitors to tlic American Exhibition
of 1887.
50,592 English Miles have been covered since Oct. 11, 1880, by
the
which last season'carried 1978 passengers in perfect safety.
Dr. Rumney (of “Ridge’s Food” fame) will, to prevent
disappointment to American and Colonial visitors, again r—
v.;™ o?v-Vicrafi Shn.cro flnar.h. THE “ WOTSTDET
his celebrated six-horse Stage Coach, THE “WONDER,’’
between London and St. Albans, leaving Hatchetts Hotel,
in Piccadilly, London, every morning at 10.45, returning to
Piccadilly at 6.15 p.m.
Ample time is allowed at St. Albans for lunch and for
passengers to inspect the CATHEDRAL, which is one of the
FINEST and OLDEST IN THE WORLD.
The trip is one of the most delightful that can be taken
and the price charged for the return fare is 20s.
For time Cards and other Particulars applv to “WONDER’
Coach Office, Hatchett’s Hotel, Piccadi!!/, London, England
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tic
Doloreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
(bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give Instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change In diet
neoessary 1 In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CUBE FOR BLIGHT.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
Its ageucy can be seeu. Admitted by tbe Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
fl, A, ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
631 Georgo-street only
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
rpo THE FAIR SEX.
TO THE STERNER SEX.
HORDERN’S, IN PITT-STREET,
intend to
VERY SHORTLY CLOSE
their
Universally Popular
FIRE SALVAGE SALE IN PITT
STRAET.
If you can'tcome thismorning, please
defer shopping till we re-open on Mon-
day. (Ae close at 2of a Saturday.)
There are not many Salvage Goods
left, and we shall be glad when the
sale is over and done with. We have
let our friends and customers have the
things at almost any price they liked,
as Fire Sales are not at all in our line.
We are Family Drapers. We just in-
sert this notice in case you want any
Fire Bargains before the sale closes.
N.B. —Ten thousand new Winter
Goods to be open on Thursday.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
211, Pitt-street.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXAXXXX
§0
ladies
ond
Gentlemen
Purnisljifjgj
CONSULT
BROKER
oonomy
u.
WATERLOO OKAMBERS,
■is© OEOE9S STEEST.
OPPOSITE IBX UABBZTS-
jIoNES
Moving sacred his connection with the above firm,
begs respectfully to intimate to his friends and the
general public that he has commenced business as a
4 i
upon the assumption that it (being,a long felt
want, more especially in the Furnishing Branch
which, reasonably claim ' J the*ervices of an expert)
will thus be ably filled t -were needless for him
1 <n characterise in circular form any or the mane
.Ivantages to be derived through his agency
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, March 22, 1887.
Tenders (or public works and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the following PL BLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten
ders are opened, and the name of the suceessfu
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
JOHN SUTHERLAND.


St. Patrickhasjustgone through his annual
dose of panegyrizing by the R.C. pulpits. There
is a sorrowful obscurity about Patrick. Some
learnfd people say he was a Frenchman ; others,
a Spaniard. Father Anderson, a learned Jesuit,
has j ust. proved that he was ‘ ‘ in all probability ”
a Scotchman. An Anglican clergyman in England
has lately asserted that Pat was a Protestant. It
has also been pointed out that the well-known
song does not settle the nationality question. The
only fact that seems to be accepted by all is the
regrettable one that Patrick was not an Irishman.
This is bad, but we can put up with it.
TIME WILL TELL.
LITTLE BILLY (who, seeing the posters mixed up, thinks that Parkes is attached to the
circus): “I SAY, FATHER, HOW MUCH DOES IT COST TO SEE PARKES PLAY [?]"
BIS FATHER (solemnly): “AH, WILLIAM, MY BOY, WE’LL HAVE TO WAIT. TIME
WILL TELL.”
Mr. Dailey continues, so the doctors say,
to improve in health.
We mentioned in a recent issue that the
Bishop of Wellington (V. Z.) had fallen downstairs
and been seriously shaken up. We now learn
with additional regret that his dignity, as well as
his bones, suffered on that occasion, as he fell
downstairs with nothing on except a shirt.
The Sydney D.T. reports that “ the
Papal Consistory are taking the first step to pre-
conise the late Bishop Griver, of Perth, Western
Australia” —the blessed gentleman whose cheer-
ful habit it was—Heaven be praised I—to wear a
wooden cross fastened into the flesh of his back
with iron spikes. It is only the fat, bishop-built
man who has his vertebrae well defended by rolls
or holy hog’s-lard, that can afford to indulge in
such penitential freaks.
There is still some romance left in the
world— at least there was in a Sydney suburb till
a few days ago, when Miss Annie B. May swal-
lowed a charge of carbolic acid on account of
being diiappointed in a love affair—
Annie B. May—
Cold and flaccid —
Has passed away.
Her end was placid—
Carbolic acid.
The girls of the future are a subject that
I female lecturers and writers never get tired of,
and in their anxiety to look after them, the snuffy
1 old widows of the present get woefully left. A
certain Miss Darling, of Maryborough (Q ), is now
tearit g her old brown skirt over the women who
are to come after her in these colonies, and the
three hairs on the back of our head rose up from
sheer joy at the description she gives. The Aus-
tralian girl of the future, it seems, will be marked
by (1) an acute perception, (2) an unfailing fresh-
ness, and (3) great receptivity. A nod will be as
good as a wink to the coming—but not yet come—
female, and a yell will be as good as a kick. Her
comprehension will be remarkable for its koenness ;
when her husband comes home at 2 a.m. from a
tern porance meeting he will only require to put his
feet on the dining-table, and she will under-
stand that he wants his boots taken off; and when
he has hit her on the head with three dishes she
will divine at once that he is angry. Her unfail-
ing freshness will keep her from getting yellow,
and the knobby parts of her will not stick out as
they sometimes do in the girl of the present, also
she will be “ unclouded by the fogs of dogmatic
conventionality.” The item about receptivity
does not mean that the acute fresh girl of the
future will have an enlarged mouth, and will
be qualified to put down half a ham and the legs
and wings of two fowls at a stretch ; it is her
mind, not her body, that will bs broad, and,
according to the writer, she will have “a listening
attitude towards the sweet influences of visible
nature, and towards the voice of God in con-
science.” The worst of it is that we were born
too soon, and we will be old before this girl comes.
But when she does come what a blessing she will
be, and how much better it will be to come home
to a wife like this than to get into a boarding-
house with a latch-key in the small hours when
churchwardens yawn and pubs give up their trade
and close the shutters, and then sit down to hiccup
in an empty sitting-room and watch a blue rat
chasing a pink alligator up the chimney.
“ I’ll have to raise your rent, Ryan.”
“ Glad av it, sir, for, begorra, that’s more than I
can do.”
GREATER JOY.
Great joy in Noah it begat
When he came down from A rarat,
No duffer grey
Was there to say, .
“ I’ve seen a far worse flood than that 1 ”
But greater joy there’s none need fear,
When tired, hot, or thirsty here,
Than grasp the hand
That bears the brand
Of Clausen’s Champagne Lager Beer.
-yiyr HAT HAPPENED!
He was induced to try the experiment of a
shave at the hands of a lady barberess, and this is
what he told his bosom friends about it
“ Ths touch of that gazelle's hand was light,
delicate and soothing. When she laid me back in
the filmy recesses of that oriental chair and
lathered me with perfumed whipped cream, and
rubbed it into my coarse face with her velvety
hands, every hair became attuned like the sigh-
ings, of an seolian harp. Well, I’ll admit the
razor was a little dull and my face has been a
little sore since, but then we must have the thorns
with the rose. I shall never forget the great, big,
dreamy, hazel eyes that drank in the depths of
my confiding soul when she reached over and
pulled my right shoulder blade up under my ear
and commenced rasping my back. It’s human
nature for a man to want his back scratched, and
I said nothing—but sawed wood and gritted my
teeth. She pulled the wild outgrowth from my
nostrils, waxed my scant moustache a la Napoleon,
and ruffled nay eyebrows to make me look gruffy
and manly. Tten she tattooed me with an
occasional spot of bay rum, squirted a couple of
squirts of carmine grease in my hair, and rubbed
my head —”
“ And then?”
“ Well, then she powdered me till I looked like
a graven image, and in the sweetest voice that
ever diluted chocolate creams she said, ‘ Next!
•‘And then?”
“ Then, my boy, I paid, and fled to the nearest
hotel with just strength enough left to murmur
in the little pink ear of another divinity:
‘ Clausen—bottle—quick,’ I was saved, and I
don’t believe there is another tonic built that will
hoist a man out of the jaws of death as certainly
as Clausen’s New York Champagne Lager Beor.
ERUPTIVE PROURESS
At no time in the history of the world, since the
destruction of the walls of Jericho by a trumpet
blast, has there been such a variety of eruptions
recorded inside and out of the range of probabilities
as within the last few months- Commencing
with Tarawcra, we glide gently down the stream
of Time, and note the constant succession of
surprises in the shape of natural and artificial fire-
works up to the present day. Scarcely had we
recovered from the shock caused by the New
Zealand eruptions than we find ourselves in the
midst of others of an equally distressing character,
occuring day after day in the seat of all wisdom
and most of the virtues—
THE SYDNEY LEGISLATURE.
The verbal and physical eruptions which graced
the interior of this stately pile being accompanied,
externally at intervals, by the vibrations of the
unemployed, who erupted in the vicinity of “ the
stattoo ” at their own sweet will, or whenever it
appeared that the democratic arch wanted to
shake up the public indifference and get itself into
the newspapers. After a short interval devoted
only to the reception of probable erupt’ons, to
follow the receipt of
STARTLING WAR CABLEGRAMS.
We are face to face with the real thing itself in
Southern Europe, but it will always be a source
of gratification to remember that the first intima-
tion of this terrible eruption contained the blessed
tidings that the Prince of Wales was safe, al-
though the fever heat of public anxiety on this
head was not fairly allayed until we knew that
he had got safely back to his mother. Then came
a burst of gratitude and a dream of hope, from
which we have been rudely awakened by the news
that quite a common person (in the shape of a
bookmaker) had dared to lift his hand in wrath
and smite on the mouth
A REAL LIVE VISCOUNT.
Society stands aghast and dreads what may follow.
It is a slight comfort to know that an upright
Judge has sent, or sentenced, the eruptive book-
maker to prison ; but that seems to be but a poor
protection for such lords and “ dooks” who walk
with the ungodly without beiDg able to use their
hands in self defence.
THE MORAL OE ALL WHICH
is that wd have to study and search for the best
pieventive against eruptions of all kinds, in elud-
ing alike democratic arche3 and aristocratic
sports. Calm research into the depth of this
difficult problem incontestibly shows that almost
all eruptions, except earthquakes, can be pre-
vented or lessened in intensity by an unshaken
adherence to
CLAUSEN’S NEW YORK CHAMPAGNE
LAGER BEER.
It is a cool, calm, temperate and invigorating
beverage, suitable for all ages, sexes, nationalities,
colors and creeds, and peculiarly adapted to all
sorts and conditions of Australians.
It can be obtained from Messrs. Mason Brothers,
limited, Fesq and Co., Tooth and Co., Alltand Co.,
Burrows and Gleeson, Lucas Brothers, Cornellion
and Co , R. Butcher and Co., J. T. and J. Toohey
and Co., Tidswell, Wilson, and A. Thompson and
Co., C. Bath and Co., Peate and Harcourt,
Cooper, Nathan, and Co., Darcy and Co., A.
Rowan and Co., Tucker and Co., and Stewart and
c<£, and at all first-class hotels everywhere.
DiAitpHcEA Dysentery, and Colic. —lt ought
to be more generally known throughout N.S.W.
that Freeman’s Original and Genuine Chlorodyne
is a specific for these prevalent Colonial Maladies.
Many years ago Freeman’s Chlorodyne acquired
a very high reputation for arresting and curing
these diseases. It is easy to understand, there-
fore, that Freeman’s Chlorodyne is now regarded
by the Colonists as a household remedy. The
directions on each bottle are so clear that the most
inexperienced men can administer it with perfect
confidence. Freeman's Chlorodyne, if given when
the earliest symptoms of these maladies manifest
themselves, at once arrests their further progress.
Insist upon having ”Freeman’s” only. Trade
mark, an Elephant.—obtainable from all chemists
and storekeepers.*
WHEN YOU FEEL BLUE
And your back aches, and your head feels heavy, and you
wake unfreshed in the morning, and your bowels are sluggish
or costive, you need Dr Bell’s Bitters. It is nature’s great
remedy, and never fails to relieve all cases of diseased
kidueys, torpid liver, constipation, malaria, piles, rheumatism
«c. It operates simultaneously on the kidneys, liver and
bowels, strengthening them and restoring healthy ac .ion.
Sold by all druggists. '
Travellers, when arriving in Sydney, know not where to
seek accommodation, the knowing ones tell the cabman to
drive direct to the Great Northern Hotel, George-street and
Charlotte-place, where they find comfortable accommodation
and the best meals supplied by any hotel in Sydney. The
shilling luncheon theie is the talk of the town.*
Cockroaches. Bugs, and all other insects
destroyed by Mitchell’s Insect powder. 6d., Is.,
Is. 6d. Rigney, 141 King-street.*
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF SPRING GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prices.
STOP RIGHT HERB I
JOY FOR EVER 1
CONSIDER THIS.
An Autophone costs but 30s. and Is a joy for ever
The Autophone is a wonderful little instrument
which, while it weighs less than three pounds has
the lungs of a full sized parlor organ, and executes
its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect. It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three
keys, and all the paits of most difficult music. On
it a child can correctly play, .without instruction,
any of its music, wmch at present consists of ever
300 selections from hymns, oratorios, operas,
waltzes, polkas, marches, popular songs, &c. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, but also has wonderful power in exe-
cuting very lively pieces, tsr It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card holder for convenience
in singing. It is entirely well adapted for country
churches, Sunday schools, the family circle, and
also for dancing. The music is compact, and far
cheaper than that which is made for any organette.
The Autophone is like every other good thing, the
longer you have it the better you like it, and as
new music is being published every week it has an
endless fund of amusement in it. -
PRICK, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Three tunes given in with each instrument.
Additional tunes per last mail. Send for Cata-
logue. Kxtra music sent on receipt of price.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand :
ORIENTAL GOLD CO., No. 12 POMEROY
CHAMBERS, CASTLEREAGH-ST., SYDNEY.
WATCHBa
The Elgin National Watch Co.’s Watches are
the best in the world. Read this :
“ Elgin National Watch Co., Chicago,
“ Gentlemen,—lt gives me pleasure to state
that the performance of the Watch manufactured
by you, and marked ‘B. W. Raymond No. 19,201,’
which I have carried in my pocket for a period of
six months, surpasses in excellence that of any o.
the fine watches I have hitherto tested. It main-
tains its rate even better thap a fine box chrono-
meter by Negus, belonging to this observatory.
I have intended, when I shall have leisure, to
make a complete test of the isochronism of the
balance for poise and temperature. So far as I
can judge by the performance of the watch, these
adjustments appear to be nearly perfect.
“ Permit me to congratulate you upon the
successful manufacture of watohes which are
equal in performance to the pocket chronometers
by Jurgensen, Eordsham, and other celebrated
European makers.
“JAMES C. WATSON,
“Astronomer.
Observatory, Ann Arber.
January 28, 1870.”
Remember each and every watch manufactured
by The Elgin Watch Company is a Patent Lever
with compensating-balance. No horizontal or other
inferior movements.
If three pounds is more than you can afford we
meet you by reducing the price of the case. We
can’t and won’t sell you a debased movement.
The Elgin Company does not make such things.
Note. The Elgin Watch Company states. Ore
silver is a new white metal, manufactured and
controlled by ourselves exclusively. These cases
are to all appearance and in wearing qualities the
equal of silver.
Hunting case, ore silver, stem winding
patent lever, with compensating
balance, jewelled in 7 holes £2 10 0
Do. do. (key winder) ... ... £2 0 0
Elgin National Watch Co.’sKeywinding
Patent Lever, in solid silver patent
dust-band case, with compensating
balance, patent pinion, 7 flnejewels,
open face £3 0 0
Same Watch in hunting case ... £3 10 0
Stem-winding (Keyless) Elgin N. W.
Co.’s compensating-balance, patent-
lever, open crystal face, in solid
silver dust-band case, with 11 fine
ruby jewels, piteut pinion, &c. ... £3 S 0
Same Watch, in hunting-case 3 IS 0
Ladies superb gold lever watch mag-
nificently engraved hunting case ex-
quisite jewelled movement. No better
in the world ... ... ... ... £io o 0
We have not space here for further detailed
quotations. We can, however, offer silver-cased
watches at ascending prices up to the finest in the
world at £4O 0 0
OR FOR A FEW SHILLINGS
ORIENTAL GOLD JEWELLERY.
ORIENTAL
Is tha latest triumph of
Science. It is a noils
GOLD
alloy, possessing the ezact lustre, hoauty
and endurance o{sterling Sold. A legi-
timato uso has been found for this noble metal, by
working it into Jewellery of the most exquisite do*
signs. The Oriental Gold Co.,
has
large consignments of these lovely goods, which they
sell at a fraction of the cost of Sterling Sold Jewellery.
No one can detect the difference. Send for a
Priced Catalogue, or for one of the fol-
lowing samples, all of Oriental Sold—
'Brooches,Bs.; Jewelled (Parisian
Brilliantc) Brooch, 7s. ®d. j Gent’s
Albert, 7s. 6d.s Pair Earrings,
Plains's.; Jewelled,7s. 6d.; Locket
Ss.tJewelled, lOs.; Ladies’Alberts
15s. P. 0.0. payable Oriental Gold
Co. .
iflgpWe send these on approval. If they don’t
* please, return uninjured by the First
Hail,and neFepay the cash, less postage.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
12 POMEROY CHAMBERS,
OASTLEREAGH STREET.
Parcels sent anywhere by post.


A A DEBNE.Y & C°
13 HUNTER STREET,SYDNEY.
shirt Makers.
aX
[o/m
1) Jfc uo"
jNyvV
o<l 015o 15 V 50
R
OBKKT BUTCHER & CO.,
w (Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Town Hall, Sydney.
Country Orders receive prompt attention. TEI
DR. O’CONNELL has Removed from his old
quarters, Opposite, and has been compelled
owing to his health and age to alter his hours of
consultation to 10 a.m. till 2.30 p.m. daily;
Saturdays, 10 a.m. till noon ; no consultation on
Sundays or holidays. Dr. O’Connell needs no
advertising, as all of his patients who have con-
sulted him, and have been cured of lost vigour,
health, and vitality, will make it known to their
friends, who can write and be cured.
Address—
Dr. J. O’CONNELL,
57 Castlereaqh Street,
Sydney.
A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL,
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
Classes now open.
Wiien in Sydney, ip you miss Foley’s you
HAVE NOT SEEN THE CITY.
High-class Dentistry
at Reform PRrcES.
ARTIFICIALTEETH
ewri-^sE]-
V
a
MARSHALL BRO!
DENTISTS
133 ELIZABETH ST
Teeth painlessly extracted under nitrous oxide
gas, daily at 11.
■f.
I
WW,T6R!f
To Weak, Nervous Invalids, and others
seeking Health and Strength.
DR. RICHARDS,{^i^Wand.
DESIRES to publicly announce that he has
permanently established himself in Sydney,
and may in future be consulted at his rooms, No.
7 Spring Street, FREE OF CHARGE, by that
Increasingly large class of sufferers whose nervous
complaints can only be competently dealt with by
an experienced specialist. I.Cure every case un-
dertaken. When I say I cure. I do not merely
stop them for a time and then haye them return
again, I mean a radical cure. I have made those
ailments, which are the result of negligence, a
life-long study, and can safely warrant a cure
after personal consultation. Carelessness in many
cases has brought about a state of weakness that
has reduced the general system so much as to in-
duce almost every other disease, and the real
cause of this soarely ever being suspected, people
have been doctored for everything but the right
one. Notwithstanding the many valuable remedies
that medical science has produced for the relief of
this class of patients, none of the ordinary modes
•of treatment effect a cure. During my extensive
hospital and private practice in England, I have
■ discovered new and concentrated remedies, and
with the use of my extensive Galvanic Appliances,
am in a position to guarantee a cur.e in every case
undertaken. Consultation costs nothing, and I
will tell yon at once whether your easels curable
- or not.
_DR. RICHARDS, M.R.C.S., England,
7 SPRING STREET (off Pitt-gt., Sydney.
WHAT
WILL convince you of the wonder-
ful curative properties combined in
Dr. Bell's Bitters, if the remarkable
•urea that have been effected by its use fail to impress
ipon your mind this repeatedly proven fact. Thous-
*nds are using it,
t is a medicine
-ven more than
w
hnd all declare that
possessing all and
we claim for it. M)
riend, if you are sick, or in that condition that you
oannot call yourself either sick or well, go an,d get a
mottle of Dr. Bell’s Bitters, and realise yourself how
;his medicine hits the
ight spot, and puts all
machinery of your
;ody into working order.
CONVINC
One of our prominent business men said to us the
>ther day : “ In the spring my wife got all run down
ind could not eat anything ; passing a store I saw a
ot of Dr. Bell’s Bitters in the windsw, and I got a
>ottle. After she had been taking it a week she had
; rousing appetite, and it did her a world of good.
She took three bottles, and it was the best investment
•ver made.”
DO YOU KNOW
That the very best Blood Purifier and Spring Medi
sine is Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
That it cures Biliousness, Indigestion, Dyspepsia
leadache, and Kidney and Liver Complaints.
That it is a wonderful medicine for Restoring and
harpening the Appetite.
That it cures Scrofula, Salt Rheum, Boils, Pimples,
>r other Diseases of the Blood.
i'l you suffer from any of these affections, try Dr
fell's Bitters at once.
Dr. Bell’s Bitters as a Blood Purifier has no equal,
t tones the system, strengthens and invigorates,
.iving new life.
The highest Medical Authorities pronounce it th<
i ily known Specific for Kidney, Liver and Urinary
D.seases; that it has no equal as a BLOOD PURIPIbR.
it it is fiie best safeguard against Contag’om
Od-f ases, both acute and chronic, keeping the KID
ifajf.S a-id LlVE. l— the great organs of the body-
n healthy condition, disease then being impossible.
Notr.— -Any poor Person, or the manager of an)
iospital, Asylum, or O d People’s Horae, may obtain
h? Bitters gratuitously upon written application t<
She Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
■)t the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
’or mediqine.
B-ELL’S^TiTTERS
Manufacturing Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND, & AUSTRALIA.
3UTOHER, FEEON & 00., Sydney,
AGENTS FOR
Mew South Wales & Queensland.
f
MANUFACTURERS
4 IMPORTERS OF
HATS CAPSic
438'CEOeCE ST
/SYDNEY %
P/ytosift J^atstCCirs
%
%
sd
V]
r'p £
Lim
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Ha?a your Umbrella Frame* re*
oovered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made equal
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield HilL between
Liverpool and Bathurst Street!
Parasols made to match 001
tame* Renatai nearly •xeeuted
Theatre royal.
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove
Lessee, Mr, Sam Lazar.
THURSDAY and FRIDAY, March 21, 25,
U V ISALI.O IN MASCHERA.
SATURDAY, March 26,
Faust.
Prices—Dress Circle, 7s. 6d.; Orchestra Stalls.
55,; Stalls, 4s ; Family Circle. 2s.
Alhambra music hall.
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp.
SURPRISING SUCCESS
SURPRISING SUCCESS
EACH NIGHT. EACH NIGHT.
The great HOSE A EASTON, Banjoist and
Comic Artist, appears in this hall, in conjunction
with Messrs. JOHNNY COWAN, SAM KEENAN,
the great Soprano Miss BEATRICE JAMES, and
the other members of the company, numbering
30 Artists.
Popular Prices : Orchestra Chairs, 2s ; Stalls,
Is; Balcony, 6d.
Grand Sacred and Classical Concert every
SUNDAY EVENING, at 7.30.
HEALTH IS WEALTH.
E NT
Dr. E. 0. West's Nerve and Brain Treatment, a
guaranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions, Fits,
Nervous Neuralgia, Headache, Nervous Prostration, caused by
the use of alcohol or tobacco, Wakefulness, Mental Depression,
Softening of the Brain resulting in insanity and leading to
misery, decay, and death, Premature Old Age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain, or over-indulgence. Each box
contains one month’s treatment. ss. a box, or six boxes for
255., sent by mail prepaid on receipt of price. We Guar-
antee six boxes to cure any case. With each order re-
ceived by us for six boxes* accompanied with 255., we will
send the purchaser our written guarantee to refund the
money if the treatment does not effect a cure. Guarantees
issued only by
JOHN 0. WEST and C 0. f
65 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Circular sent free on application.
£lOO Reward!
We will pay the above reward for any case of liver com
plaint, dyspepsia, sick headache indigestion, constipation or
costiveness, we cannot cure with West's Vegetable Liver
Pills, when the directions are strictly complied with. They
are purely vegetable, and never fail to give satisfaction.
Large boxes containing 30 sugar-coated pills Is For sale by
all druggists. Beware of counterfeits and imitations. The
genuine manufactured only by
JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
66 Market-street Sydney, N.S.W.
Bent Prepaid by post on receipt of Is. p?r box in stamp*.
w w w
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMENT.
Infallible remedy for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
Gout, Sprains, Cuts, Burns, Scalds, Bruises, Headache,
Mumps, Hip Disease, White Swelling, Felons, Chilblains
Whitlows, Chapped Hands, Frozen Feet, Bites of Insects,
Sore Throat and all diseases requiring external application.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers.
Prigs Is, and 2b. per Bottls.
JOHN C. WEST & 00., Sole Proprietors.
SYDNEY, CHICAGO anil
TORONTO.
MANUFACTURING MATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OFALLTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
EQUITABLE CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETY, Limited.
89 COLLINS STEBBT EL, IVEEIXiBOTJEIISrE].
WRITE TO THE SECRETARY FOR MONTHLY CIRCULAR, AND REDUCE HOUSEHOLD
EXPENSES 30 PER CENT.
CLPHO vVOLFE
SON
fcG
/6p
<mmiviax
'sine/
Yimm / /?
Qmb
xr/
■ur
At
ILLUSTRATION (in reduced size) 3 1 J£\ Order to 1m found in the
“LARGE BOTTLES” OF WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
gRADjRY, NEWTON, ft LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
Full suites for dining-room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match.
HELP-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK
Patented.
CHAIR
This chair adjusts itstlf tu any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous ositions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire' rest. ft2T We can
now supply portable suspension Stands to enable
the Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with
Stand 30/-; Without Stand 25/-.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB (only).
Packing in canvas, if required 2s. 6d. extra.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably Up-
holstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &c. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell and
Spring Streets.
Sen
IJIfW
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by] movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, comma
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell and Spring
Streets.
s
Drawing room CABI-
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs,
BRADLEY, NE WTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Ware housemen
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets
d
£35
PIANOFORTE,
1 guarantee!!
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, lull Compass
Celeste Pedal, bril ant
tone, In handsome oase.
Free at rail or wharves for
Dash only,
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
C fLKBRATED MAKERS.
fs
ICE
CHESTS,
all sizes,
From 275,
Bradley,
Newton.
and
iAmb.
df
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bod*
rooms. New designs covered to order in
any material.
s
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH, for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest*
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
sd
Bedsteads, »u blm»i
Nickel-plated and Blaok
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding,—All descriptions at
lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and'
LAMB,
Importers,
O' Connell and Spring Streets,
fs
SPRING MATTRASSES
Woven Wire, be*
make; algo, Spiral Sprinj«
Price, from Us. eaob,
BRADLEY, NEWTON' and LAMB
| HEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from.
13s. 6d. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.|
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s, | Clothes Horses, from 10s. Bd.j»
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 60s.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,


BILLY GOAT GOVERNMENT
To Disenchant N.S.W.—Shave Parkes.
The Samsoman Parkes, the Saered Animal with the Hair : “ Woe ” savs the Svdnev
Held"’* APH ’ “ t 0 the Wh ° tOUCheS a Singl ° Hair of the Premilr^Grly
Old Jack Robertson, who has also begun to Travel upon his Hair. He despises Wise
who, he remarks, is “a mere youngster with no Hair on his phiz ” P ’
WiBe nn s a l ar W r he n’rr in *£ e fuW *' of time, he shall have become
possessed of the Source of all True Greatness—Hair.
The Sacred Animal Parkes with its locks cut. It can no longer Travel on its Hair
Manl^ 6 the Park6S ° f t 0 day ’ dlspose of ever y question by a mere shake of its
01d Strength. 611 be<m deprived of fche ohief Source of his Pride and
A portrait of Wise, the despised “youngster, without a Hair on his phiz.”


II
It
3ALICYU
df
m * — (
1f > 'Mu exquisite
J(a*«fwWua tdJL
“Kno^Tcm.
X?,MELHUISH " pHARMACEDTJCAL CHEMIST
134 wilham ST, S YDNEY ~
w —3 -
//JmtyLieo fb/f frs/i//i/s£JT7c
//So CLEAf/siftG pftOPERTtfS
SOTS
vOTS
T. WILLIAMS & CO.,
IMPORTERS OP
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Also Manufacturers of
The Finest Quality of Goods in the above Lines.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
S3OH
S3OH
£5O D.
WARNING
Vi j.l I
er^ 7 Wor^ess imitation of that well-known preparation,
in * INSECTICIDE, is now being offered for sale, and
“ deceive the unwary, the word Kruse’s is rendered
tioued ° n - ou tside wrapper. The public are hereby cau-
lT^Bs 11St * m P os l ure > an d are a d vised that FIFTY
<H ee as . 7 ARD will be paid to anyone giving such evi-
feis S]; ea d to the conviction of the makers and vendors of
Sr° US . article * The g enuilie KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
distinguished from the imitation. KRUSE’S
las a Idue wrapper and large white directions
1 l bearing the words “ Kruse’s Insecticide, sole
K 0rs ’ BELTON, GRIMWADE, & CO., Melbourne.”
SEs Insecticide may be had of all wholesale and retail
’ v endors of proprietary and patent medicines.
V\E*
UIMESTy
JV-j ' * ND HIS ROYAL , v,,
GOULET ®H^MPAG-3STE,
02 Margaret-street, Agents
for New South Wales.
LANCASTER,
zf , c'/st&a/'S
\c/T//£'* .■’'A/A* /
A l VAM/S&B
MIS
5C5
t
S>'£v.
Nt)>
AEp
E-Of
HOT WATER
I u-*y i iiimiiiH!
CYLINDER’!
HER
WHIP
P'AN
Tf ?ooej <
%
-ALLS*? >Ci* ti-pjjL
FOR MANY YEARS
engaged in the
Leading Workshops
of England,
Lately 5 years with
Hudson Bros,,
Manufacturer of
WROUGHT IRON
TANKS & CISTERNS,
of any size or shape,
for squatter#, wool-
washers, and station-
owners.
Horse and Cattle
Trough#,
of every description,
wrought-iron pipes, s. s.
funnels, ventilatona,
&c., See.
Estimates eheert'ulygivea..
REDUCED PRICK LISTS FURNISHED jON application.
STREET, WEST, near Railway Station.
"*1 Flour!
JTa\ y Flora*!
ifCoUR MILLS,
St *> SYDNEY.
ai^ e &l, e c; n^ ne Seconds Flout,
JS SS*a L on ! 8 . Bran and Pol-
-15
All made
'°^eat S p^ lleat P roourafl:)le >
K> r
ve Force),
s r ive For
Frlenda, and General
At
SYDNEY,
.Agency Office,
4ft C 4 DE,
„fj » v MK , O n t iui mho k Jt v
, t wdlij, certifieateß of birth,
*n anv mrt of the world
Wales, vLworm, wiu
in ah parts of the
uS U ''ecresy' ‘ inquiries with cautiou
_ experience
ieteria, and
&v ,. an<3 t 0 faithful!* and
entruatad to h gare.
D* RIDGE’S
tin MFMTS aa fflttUDS
Hrns an enacmisius sade- Ja Pjpgtartti,
smd I'S now being inttfodlaaed* bate U»
Golanl®^.
Every Storekeeper
as every wise mother wiai *ce«minr}
• use. lit. ,
PR.RI»GB*S ROYAL Ftk}ls 3Maaki-fc
sd
The oaiy place; where
pljfes are aafcisfaetoffiy
repaired.
SUPPORT Colonial Industry! Buy your Pine
at S. ROSENTHAL. 1 Little Co&i.sn&
Street, East (opposite Colonial Bank.
Manufecturer of real Meerschaum and. B*iar
Pi tea, wholesale and retail.
H
f
I
K
The
<r~^G> v
ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
AND ALL CHEST AFRECTIONS
_ PREPAR£LD ONLt
TttOMAS IN G
Q>C K H A M F T O N ,
HAM/t
3 T o'HjJ?. !
f*
1
ECORNILLON & CO., Win® and Spirit
• Merchants, 22 Bridge street, Sydney,
on Sale—
Mackles & Co. oelebrated Whiskie
E. Remy Martin & Co.'s Centaur Brandy, In
bulk and cases
Vve. Martin and Fils Squirrel Brandy
Ca. Ylncola del norte de Espana, Rioja Clare a,
Port, &o.
The unequalled A.V.H, Gin, &c., &o.
MASON BROTHERS,
SBl
IffISMR
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-stroet,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
.1 «*ORIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
„. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS'
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
HIGH-CLASS PHOTOGRAPHY.
Messrs. CHaUmONT & Co.
BBG to thank their numerous clients for the
liberal patronage shown to them.
Their PHOTOGRAPHS receive the highest
praise, and are acknewledged to be beautiful and
artistic. Inspection is invited to the choice col-
lection of Portraiture now on exhibition in the
vestibule leading to their Studios in the Royal
Arcade.
MR. THOMAS CLEAVE,
who has had the honour of Photographing Her
Majesty Queen Victoria, T.R.H. Prinee and
Princess of Wales, Prince Imperial, &c., &c., will
personally photograph each sitter.
Messrs. C. and Co. respectfully ask that ladies
desirous of sitting should make appointments in
the early part of the day.
GROSVENOR GALLERIES,
Royal Arcade
Prices: C.D.Y., 155.; Cabinets, 30s. per dozen.
C. H. SMITH & SON,
Manufacturers and Importers
OB'
HATS and CAPS.
302 GEORGE STREET,
3 D<jjprs South of Hunter-street.
r H E ORIGINAL' .
Baking
°tyn
*yAOQH4^ LY
OBTAIKEU’A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
OR
HIGHEST DEGREE OF MERIT
** A
&
ISTHE BESTJNTHE WORLD!!
■' none other but
WAUGH
■' • '* ' /■■■. V %i :cv.
RECE IV ED THE INTERN ATiONAj
PRIZE M EDA
Manufacture d pyJa m e s Charnon
H ar b ou Sydney
m
Sold ty All Croeersand Storekeepers
RUSTON PROCTOR & CO.’S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
“ TRIUMPH ” THRASHING MACHINES,
Simon’s Roller System of Flour Milling,
Sole Agents i
E. C. ELLIOTT & CO.,
547 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 1869).
Paid-up Capital. £300,000. Reserve Fund, £160,00§1
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman,
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C,
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C.
General Manager;
F. A. A. Wilson.
SBCRMAJtr
Hector Allen.
Blanches : Baymarket, Pyrmont, Redfem, Gosford, Nyn
gan, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St Leonard's, Newcastle
and Brisbane.
London Branch : 58 LaadenhaU-street.
Lq&don Bankers The National Provincial Bank ot
England.
mr THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows: —SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENt.
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O In the Savings Bank
Branch. Payable on demans. Offices, i Park-sc,
S. v. WARHKAM. Manager.
s
3m
ess
O'
ss^*
“I Wanted a harmless, educational, and inexpensive hobby for my boy, to keep him from
rambling in an objectless way about the streets, so I took ham down to I IUHIWtCK and GO., in
(JConneli-street and bought him a learner’s set of Rnotographie Instruments.
“He is quite contented now, and gets some rtw pretty,pictures occasionally. Yiou might do
worse than that for your lad.”
So spoke a father the other day to a Iriend whose son was afflicted with this not uncommon
weakness.
LICHTNEKjand CO have a itest-ratc assortment of Cameras, Lenses, and eveything required
in the professional or amateur praoiice of photography.
LICHTNER AND CO.,
24 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND 87 COLLINS STREET EAST, MELBOURNE.
Catalogues post free on application.
SPECIAL LOW QUOTATIONS TO DEALERS.
“BOOKS.” Any Book You Want. “BOOKS.”
ANGUS <Sc ROBERTSON,
1M UHKIT tTKIM, SYD.NLI.
Large stoca of new and second-hand Books. Price of any book on application. [Books sent by
mail bo any part of Australia.


ASK YOUR GROCER FOR , I
FRYS MALTED COCOA
J. S. PRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
'• AN ORDINARY OUP CONTAINB MORE ACTIVE PROPERTIES OP MALT THAN A PINT OP THE BEST ALE OR PORTER."—Lakcbt.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing, Plumbing,
Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Budding, Electric and Pneumatio Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH,” “VALVE," and “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM" WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Pan Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters,
Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND 9 MACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Price on Application.
WOOD WORKING AND SAW MILL MACHINERY.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Are SOLE AGENTS for
J. Fay dc Co., Ci3o.ci3o.ao.a,ti
And carry a Large Stock of their Celebrated Machinea.3
EVERY REQUISITE FOR WOOD-WORKING AND SAW-MILLING IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogues and Pricks.
Offices and Stores: 17 PITT STREET, Circular Quay, Sydney.
1887- IFIRIIfcTCEI OF WALES HOTEL. 1887-
ZE»_ X 3. XT,
IMPORTER OP WIKES & SPIRITS,
In order to meet the demand for Increased Accommodation, and to ensure the prompt dospatoh of all
Orders entrusted to him, has completed further Extensive Additions to his Wholesale and Retail j
Wine and Spirit Stores, and having made large purchases of the best brands of WINES, SPIRITS,
BEERS, &c., is now in a better position than ever to cope with the rapid growth of this branch of his
business.
COUNTRY ORDERS carefully paoked in strong secure cases, by a thoroughly efficient staff of
packers, for carriage by Railway, Coach, or Steamer, and delivered free of charge at Redfera Station,
or any Wharf in the City.
The FAMOUS £3 CASES of Assorted WINHS and SPIRITS, containing the following i
S Bottle* BRANDY
1 Bottle JAMAICA RUM
1 Bottle PORT WINS
3 Bottles WHISKY
1 Bottle WOLKS’S SCHNAPPS:
1 Bottle SHERRY WINE
Total 18.
Bottles LOWNDES’ RUM
1 Bottle OLD TOM
The articles contained In P.R.L’a assorted cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. Securely packed and forwarded carriage
free by rail or steamer. To prevent delay, please make Post-offloe Orders payable at the Haymarket
P.O. Price Lists post free on application. Special reductions to purchasers of Cases of Wines and
Spirits and Bulk-Goods.
P. L LAMIH, Wholesale and Entail Vine and Spirit Merchant and Importer,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL, GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS, HAYMAKKT, SYDNEY.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 778 and 780 George-street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
I LLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICK LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
LEA & PERRINS'SAUCE
I
onvs
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers m that Ike Label on every hoi tin
bears their Signature thus—
without which m bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is gen UoM-
Ask fo? LEa and PERRINS* Sauce, and see Name an Wrapper, Label, JSotm <&nd
Stopper ; Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietor},. Won-ester , Crosse and
Blackwell, London, &*c., &*c.; and by Grocets and Oilmen throughout she. World,
Wholesale Agents i Montejfiobk, Joseph & Co.; David Cohen & Co., Sydney.
9
0
>1
<s
fs
■»**>#'Ey* *n>r
P? . <•?.
art.**
OFFORD & CO.'S HAl]
LIGHTEST, BEST, and CHEAPEST.
NEXT TO ROYAL HOTEL, and at 652 GEORGB^ I^
FROM TORRID CLIME TO FRIGID ZONE.
NOTICE CONCERNING OUTFITS.
THIS APPLIES TO PARTIS* ABOUT PRO-
CEEDING TO EUROPE.
DO not fail to call at LAWLER’S for
Overland Trunks, Hat Boxes
Deck Canvas Folding Chairs, at os 6d.
American Cane-seat and Cane-back Folding
Chairs, with leg rests.
Rattan Cane Chairs
Long Deck Lounges
Gladstone Bags, Hand Bags, Skin Rugs
Camphor-wood Trunks, &c.
Combs and Brushes, Glove and Button
Hooks, Shirts, Collars, Ties an 1 Cuffs.
OUTFITS! OUTFITS! OUTWKTS!
in a regulation manner, at
LAWYER'S,
608 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
RAW VASELINE.
B
A
HORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Hone Cllppen,
Collar Check and Serge, 40 and 44 Inches ;
Large assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s Saddles, Spurs, and all kinds of
Saddlers’ Ironmongery, Oto.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS, AND SADDLERS
IRONMONGEP-
-125 YORK ST., SYDNEY.
HO If SALE
M A NU FACTOR
TTr-r* 4ZOs<n
Y
JANES STEDMAII
WQ**S,ICfWT ST’ UfttlNC S?
Cftku a*«2maA
100*0*0.0* SMOfrrtst matte*
V" msmew mr*v m*•*r r* w r : w* *0 0 w m »
<MH>~rnY 4 Surratt One*** fhmmf m*m
w
JOHNSON
• COOPER, SURVEYOR,
LICENSED GAUGER,
11 PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND
STREET, SYDNEY.
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces and Kegs, Tallow
Casks, new and second-hand; also, Wine and
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prices.
«AlT<ifX« Pi Ul ITS BRANCHES.
TO WINEGROWERS AND OTHERS,
G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE CASKS, 250 to 100 gallons j
also.
Rum, Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS.
Hogsheads, Quarter-casks, Spirib Kegs, from
gallons and upwards,
COOPERAGE.
<?7 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between Kins and Market street*.
Soli ty SHOE OEAIIRS, GROCERS and DRUGGISTS.
PRIZE MEDALS.
m
m
fi
TJ
■:
MAUt
4, SONS?
bm'»K
Is 60.
BOSTON, I©®®-
Vienna;
PHItA-/ 1676- * A m
C.l.hauthaWA^j4
Ul&m Cocgratf
The fresh food and
(Limited;,
have Opened *
BRANCH D®** 01
at
No. 23 ROYAL -
where they 1
Milk, Cream, Butter, CoEe*' „
light refresWn® o®* 0 ®*
At this Branch, orders may
by their carts.
left
They have also taken over.
“ KOUMISS." so highly reoomm
nary'cemplalnts. d
’o * l,l i
FRESH FOOD AJJD n
Head Office "
Stables ... ... ... ••• jjjti
Factory
Guinness* Extraj^f*
FIRST
-
r OIO
BASS’ PALE
SOLE M
COLONIAL AND INDIA^
LONDON* ,
By Special APP°* 0
AGENTS IN NEW c f V
W. BALCHIN,
Commercial Chamt*w^^/>d)
Try A
MUSICAL iNST^y*
The Largest Assortmen^^-p,^!
705 GEORg^T
Send for P* lo *.
Manufacturer
OF ALL KINDS OF
CRATED WATERS,
CORDIALS, and BITTERS.
E
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and SYDNEY.
9
MW
GOLD *
Xjfw
CALC
pP*
