

The Bulletin
Vol. &-No. 379
SATURDAY, MAY 7, 1887.
Frio®., o<l
tJS/jcJtfruojV £/--/7//vv
JrZo/foryouf/* " Su 3 a ‘ eane ■
£':'rr»e-/ry /on <3 /««.«-
X ro ±/~ /'//am . <fe/fer/6/&>rf
A &a-/> rr fy AccOry.
////**■.*** Act.ee y f
f*’* /W 6/jL'jl y jL*n du-y \
juf~S rnatjy steef t 4/me. 6y dr*<*%*f~\
Come
foo? CdAifa rrtex n £e//ei\ /o/i yAnfgs
.T-otrrM- _ JP c(Tx>u.&fif~ Ho faff r
ST_ N >
y&at/./K<o r-ti.r •7?"’°- CAaihtrg fortfe
w y _ Afon*-*/-/> AJy m
/yX//e/e//oiJ S*e S/ueA-
y:e7TooH and fa-mify C/f/nA rre*-
Sicre ■Sta r, of Ofc ?raa.n /food ■■
A «*- /*>-<?, freaky CAa./, 3
/kfi A, »r /*“ ft
e A.m f/- *** <W« *"
7 for 7%*-ee. ferrer:
King Billy’s Calendar for May.


THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
AT 24 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable In Advance, only!.
Per annum - £, 1 Os. Od.
Half-yearly - - - 0 12s. Od
Quarterly - - - - O Bs. 6d
All money orders, oheques, and registered letters
payable to
J. M. HARDINO,
to whom all orders (or the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed,
NOTICE
Ur •ending direct to Till Bulletin Offloe twenty shillings
sterling—which yon may pay by Poet Offioe Order, One-
pound Note, or stamps of any Australian oolony— you oan
bare The Bulletin posted regularly to you erery week for
a year.
'this offer Is nat open to residents of Sydney. In that olty
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in
the hands of our oarriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
fere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, MAY 7, 1887.
The Dafence of Australasia.
The only outcome of the great Imperia
Conference worthy of being taken into con
rideration is the establishment of the fac
that Britain is willing to provide a first line
of defence for Australasia—provided the
colonies bear the cost. Two or three repre
sentatives have been sent to Downing-stree
from eaoh colony, at very considerable ex
pense, ifi order to havo this feature of
Imperial) policy disclosed. In a matter
of this kind it is of transcendent im-
portance to learn the truth. Britain is pre-
pared to hire us a naval force—to let her
sailors fight for us if need should arise as
mere mercenaries but without direct pay-
ment she will not afford the required pro-
tection. The scheme has the more signifi-
cance since it comes from a Conservative
Government The British Radicals have
always held thst the “ possession ” of India
and the colonies by the British involves a
quite unnecessary expense and a national
peril. For holding this opinion they have
been derided and howled down by the party
led by Lord Salisbury as a set of men
willing to witness the disruption of the
greatest empire the world has ever seen—on
which the sun never sets, and so forth—for
the sake of saving a few millions sterling
per annum, and making things safe and
comfortablo at home. If the Radicals had
proposed to hire a British fleet t > the colonies
nobody would have been surpiised, because
the measure would be in keeping with the
avowed policy of Radicilism. And if the
proposal had emanated from the Radicals, the
Tories would undoubtedly have been filled with
righteous indignation, and with brave Jingo-
istic sentiments touching their intention to
defend every corner of the empire with their
last drop of blood. The circumstances of the
project procieding from Salisbury, Hamil-
ton and Holland is therefore the strongest
possible proof of public opinion in Britain
being decidedly antagonistic to tho expendi-
ture of British money for the protection of
the colonies, and in favour of letting the
colonies go shift for themselves.
We are induced to inquire here : Why is
it necessary for Australasia to incur any
considerable outlay for her own defence ? Ob-
viously and demonstrably because of the
British connection. We have no enemies of
our own, and are never likely to have any.
We are off - the tracks of Royal and Imperial
marauders, and have only to keep the pi ace
ourselves to ensure perfect freedom from
the risk of attack. But Britain is in daily
peril of war. Her “ interests ” are so
widespread and at varianco with the “in-
terests ” of other nations as to keep her in
constant jeopardy of being forced into a
conflict of the first magnitude ; and it i 3
against such a contingency, and against that
only, that the Australian colonies have to
provide. British wars on tho Zulus, the
Boers, the Afghans, the Egyptians, the
Soudanese, the Burmese—the “ little wars, ’
as they are dubbed—only trouble us in Aus-
tralia inasmuch as the grasping spirit that
inspires these petty onslaughts is certain in
the long run to bring the mother country
face to face with a power of equal or
superior might.; and we kuow that, so long
as the connection exists, if Britain goes
down wo shall most probably go down with
her. To put the case in a word, there is
only one circumstance demanding from Aus-
tralasia any effort in the way of defence,
and that is the circumstance of our being a
British dependency. This is no novel
theory. The late Dr. Lang was untiring in
urging the point, and more than a dozen emi
nent English statesmen—Lord Grey and Sir
Charles Dilke being conspicuous examples
—have recognised this plain fact of the
situation. All the trouble and expense we
are going to in, respect of military arma-
ment and organisation—and in the case of
Vic' oria in respect of naval defence also
are, we repeat, occasioned silely by the
British connection.
# * •
It seems rather rough on us, therefore,
for the Imperial British Government—and
a Conservative Government to boot—to
demand payment for the maintenance of a
fleet of cruisers in Australasian writers. If
this is all the vaunted Imperial Conference
has been asiembled to hear, we submit that
the cost of dragging representatives to London
from every corner of the earth is wholly
unjustified. A circular despatch would
have conveyed the information touching
this splendid piece of Imperial policy to
the colonies concerned at a cost of a few
shillings for postage stamps ; and even if
“ collect ” cablegrams had been sent the
colonies would have been better pleased
than at being induced to send delegates
costing several thousands pounds apiece all
the way to England. The affair is farcical ;
yet it is not easy to laugh these times when
the matter for laughter involves a heavy
expenditure. Salisbury and his colleagues
might easily have got their aristocratic
minds up to the not very exalted pitch of
perception needful to see that this question
of Australasian defence is one that legiti-
mately concerns the Imp;rial Government
only. Even if the matter be regarded sim-
ply in the point of view of £ s. d , the
colonial Governments clearly should not be
called upon to pay a penny towards the
support of an Australian fleet. The main
purpose of such a fleet would be to pro'ect
British commerce, and whatever protection
it afforded to Australia would be merely
incidental. But even if the only use of the
proposed cruisers was to defend Australia,
surely British “interests ” in these regions
aro of sufficient magnitude and value to
warrant the expenditure of £150,000 a year
on such a service, large as that sum may
seem to Lord Georoe Hamilton. If these
cruisers were supplied, and the existing
naval strength on the Australian station
maintained in condition, the whole expendi-
ture involved would not exceod the charge
on the British taxpayers for conserving
British interests in the China Sea, and
would not very greatly exceed the cost of
doing the same thing on the Pa ific coast of
America. The cost of protecting that little
rat-hole, Malta, is probably ten times
greater than tne amount over which Hamil-
ton and Holland have been haggling with
tho Australian representatives for the pro
tection of this continent.
Nor is there any particular complexity or
remoteness in the interests of the British
nation in this quarter of the world. At all
events, as Vogel has pointed out, the bene-
ficiary interest in one respect is remarkably
simple and direct. The Australian people
actually help largely to pay the Imperial
taxes. The incomes derived from Australia
and subject to taxation in the mother coun-
try have been estimated to aggregate
£30,000,000 a year. This amount would
yield at least £750,000 annually to the
Imperial exchequer. But this is not all.
There are the stamp-duties on Australian
drafts, and on transfers of Australian secu-
rities, and the probate and legacy duties on
Australian property bequeathed by persons
domiciled in Britain. On a modest calcula-
tion, probably the Australasian colonies con-
tribute fully £1,000,000 per annum to the
Imperial revenues. This is apart altogether
from what is derived from the trade between
the two countries, the whole of which is
carried in British bottoms, subsidised in
many cases by Colonial Governments. Evi-
dently Mr. Dkakin had no need to excuse
Victoria from participation in the “ advan-
tages” of this pretty scheme on the ground
that that colony already possessed a navy
of its own. Tfie ground stated is a good
and sufficient one, no doubt, but it is super-
fluous to go into that feature of the ques-
tion, since the facts are patent that—(l.)
Whatever naval force is stationed in these
waters is for the protection of Imperial
British interests and for scarcely any other
purpose ; (2), it is for protection, not against
the enemies in esse or in posse of Austra-
lasia, but of Britain ; (3), the cost is more
than defrayed by the proceeds of taxes
flowing into the Treasury from Australian
property : and (4), if the colonies were
separated from Britain, not alone would the
necessity for their having ships and guns
and soldiery be abolished so far as they are
concerned, but the Imperial Government
would be compelled to maintain a stronger
fleet on the Australian station than it has
ever maintained in the past or now proposes
to maintain— if the colonies pay the piper.
Happily, there does not seem to be much
risk of the Australian Parliaments agreeing
to the terms thus audaciously proposed by
Holland and Hamilton. Victoria has ac-
cepted the idea provisionally, but the Legis-
lature has yet to be consulted. New Zea-
land has practically repudiated the scheme.
And although the New South Wales G.O. M.
may endeavour to engage the Parliament of
this country in a contract of the nature sug-
gested by the Imperial Government, we do
not fear that even he and his Freetrade
monomaniacs will achieve success in such
an enterprise. The present Parliament of
New South Wales is unspeakably bad ; but
it cannot be quite so indifferent to the
rights of the people it “ represents ” as to
entertain any such project. New South
Wales is already sick and tired of expendi-
ture on what is euphemistically called
defence. She rejoices in the possession of
an extravagantly expensive, yet utterly in-
efficient military establishment. She has
now, thanks to Dalley’s preternatural fore-
sight, war material sufficient to start in busi-
ness in asmall way as a European Imperial land-
thief ami liberty-destroyer. M ireover, owing
tothe skilful policy of Sir Good-Government
Parkes, she has the worm-eaten and obso-
lete Wolverene anchored as a standing
menace to possible invaders som cwhere up
the Parramatta River. Oil the whole, there
fore, she is doing very well in the way of
defence, considering that her foes exist only
in the vivid imaginations of Galley and his
Little Boy of Mauly, and of the Major-
General and the countless colonels who con-
trive to make a comfortable living by per-
forming the light and easy task of occasionally
getting up a war-scare. If the Australian
Parliaments are true to their duty they will
not alone scout the idea of subventing an
Imperial fleet, but will refuse to vote the
expenses of the colonial representatives to
this wretched fraud of an Imperial Confer-
ence. If there is any decency left in the
authorities of Downing-street they cannot
fail to see the injustice of allowing the
colonists to pay a host of delegates for
attendance at a conference at w hich the only
proposal of importance made is tantamount
to a studied insult to Australasia. If this
view of the matter is pointed out by the
colonial Legislatures in firm and dignified
language, in all probability the Imperial
Government will perceive the wisdom and
justice of bearing the whole cost of that
meaningless little gathering in the Foreign
Office, and thus relieve the British State
from the reproach of organising an assem-
blage of colonial representatives on false
pretences.
The proposals for the land-defence of Aus-
tralia submitted to the Conference by Stan-
hope are scarcely less audacious. There are
two ports in the continent remote from seats
of population, yet of great stragetical im-
portance, namely, Albany, near Cape Leuwin,
and Thursday Island, near Cape York. Both
these ports were opened at considerable cost
to the colonial Governments mainly for the
convenience of the English mercantile
marine. The British authorities perceive
the necessity for defending these harbours,
which, if seized by an enemy, would be
made the bases of operations against British
shipping. And accordingly Stanhope makes
their defence a cardinal feature of the
programme, and is so anxious on the
subject that he actually promises to
give a few obsolete guns towards the arma-
ment of the proposed forts. No wonder Sir
Samvel Griffith has begun to cut up rough,
and let Holland and his colleagues clearly
understand that modified proposals must be
submitted or the whole business of the Con-
ference will end in a fizzle. The truth is,
the Salisbury gang have conceived the
idea of transferring the responsibility of
defending the Empire fri m the Imperial to
colonial exchequers, and have endeavoured
to secure this end by bribing the colonial
representatives at this bogus Conference
with a bushel or so of K.C.M.G.-ships
Fortunately, however, the matters in ques-
tion cannot be definitely arranged without
the consent of the colonial Parliaments, and
this wo may rest assured will never be given
to any such unilateral agreements.
The “Benign and Tolerant Sceptre.”
Gentlemen of the Hebrew race are generally
credited, on pretty substantial grounds, with the
quality of shrewdness. To cheat a Jew in trade
js to perform a feat far beyond the raDge of action
allowed by Nature to the average Gentile. To
get the better of him by law seems well nigh an
impossibility, for no matter under what disabilities
he is placed, or to what extent hunted down by
virtue of statutory declaration, edict, ukase, or
other process of legislation, he seems to thrive,
and wax fat and prosper. In the great financial
centres of the world the Jews hold a firm grip of
the real governing power. It is an historical fact
that Beaconskield’s triumph over Hussia after
the Turkish war—for the tearing up of tho San
Stefano treaty was undoubtedly a triumph—was
almost wholly due to the failure of the Czar to
float a loan either in Paris, London, Frankfort, or
Amsterdam; and this failure has been clearly
traced to the influence of the financially-omni-
potent organisation whose head-quarters are in
St» Swithin's Lane, London, and whose friendly
co-operation Disraeli —though an apostate Jew,
and by no means gloved on that account by the
hard-sholl mombers of “ God's own people
always contrived to enlist in his service. And
just as the Jews are supreme in the great marts
and monetary nuclei, so are they in the remote
steppes of Europo and Asia, the back settlements
of America, and the country towns of Australia.
* * *
They don't go in advance of settlement, culti-
vation, and wealth, but they follow in the tracks,
and grab a fat share of the results of Gentile indus-
try when they come upon the scene. A Jewish
explorer is unknown. A Jewish founder of a
colony is equally a figure for which the r; cords of
the world may be searched in vain. At one time
in Europe—in the age of ecclesiastical darkness
the Jews were the only scientists, and the name
of Spinoza, for example, will be venerated in all
times as that of a genuine investigator and ex-
pounder of truth ia the facs of overwhelming pre-
judice. But the Jewish “dart” is to follow on,
not to go into the forefront of the battle of civili-
sation and human progress. When all the rough
work is finished they come in and manage to
heap up riches and distinction mainly out of the
follies and foibles engendered of the prosperity
already established. As for politics, in the
higher—and even in the lower— sense of the term,
the Jews hold such matter in disdain. They
smile at wrongs inflicted whilst the blood of the
people boils with indignation. Macaulay, in his
lias essay on “Jewish Disabilities," attribute!
this indifference of Jews to grievances affecting
the whole public to the circumstancs of Jews suf-
fering under the disadvantage of exercising no
political power. Give them the suffrage, he
argued, put them on the same plane as English-
men, and you will find them to all intents and
purposes identically the same in regard to matters
political as Englishmen. Well, the Jews have
been given the suffrage and relieved fiom dis-
ability, yet they don’t seem to have Bhown much
desire to take part in the ou'post-duty in behalf
of reform and real human progress. Perhaps,
however, they have not yet had time.
* * •
The truth seems to be that the Jews worship
only one God— and his name is Success, They
have no pity for failure, no commiseration for the
blasted efforts full of beneficent potentialities yet
to be realised of men enjoying the divine afllatus
in respect of the furtherance of human
happiness. If the G-eat Reformer had
come to them clothed in purple and fine
linen, with a crown of glory upon his
head, no doubt he would have been re-
ceived as a true descendent of David, and a most
worshipful beiDg. But the Messiah was poor,
ill-clad, never had a crown eave the crown of
thorns derisively placed on his head, and further-
more had for friends and companions only the
t?grag and bobtail of the “ Holy Land.” The
Jews were cjnsequently as swiftly and ferociously
down upon him as a blackbird on a worm.
Witness the contrast. Here in this age we
have an opulent Sovereign, bedizened with rare
jewels, the owner of sumptuous palaces, the
beneficiary par ea ca’lence in maDy millions of ac-
cumulated wealth—yet a non-Hebrew, a non-
Israelite, a non-Jew, but contrariwise the personi-
fication of antagonism to the race, and in im-
portant respect to the religion, of Hebrews,
Israelites, and Jews. Before this Sovereign the
Jews are bowing down and performing a variety
of amusing genuflections, because she happens to
have survived the troubles involved in reigning
over a people who were and are still drilled to re
gard her much as the Japanese before the days of
European innovation regarded their Mikado—as
a pereonage too sacred to be looked at except
through a piece of smoked glass.
The Jewish community o£ New South Wales
are not behindhand in this characteristic beslaver-
ing of Success. They have manufactured a
casket of rare woods and metals, graven it with
choice excerpts from that part of the Bible ex-
pressly superseded by the dispensation they
despise—a profoond belief in which superseding
dispensation by the proposed recipient of the
gaud is the main cause of her official existence—
and enclosed in this protty little box an exquisitely
illuminated scroll, whereon is writ a beautiful
legend touching the virtues, sweet disposition,
and genoral good behaviour of her Most Gracious
Majesty, Victoria, Regina et Imperatrice.
* * *
Tnirty years ago a woman who is now an exiled
widow and childless was the consort of the
greatest potentate in Europe. In her husband’s
dominions Jews enjoyed civil and religious rights
then denied them in Britain-and only since
wrenched from the “ Ruler whose virtues are the
themeofmankind” by men on whom she, Victoria
systematically frowned. About that time the Jews of
France expressed sentiments of admiration and
affection for the Empress Eugenie, in an address
of which this writing to Queen Victoria looks
very like a free translation. We don’t find the
Jews hunting the pathetic figure of Eugenie
to day with scrolls setting forth her claims upon
their love and loyalty ; and no doubt if Vic-
toria were driven into exile to-morrow they would
as studiously ignore her existence. The loyalty
and adoration of the Jewish people is evidently
not of the grit of which the sentiments passing
undor the same name was composed in Scottish
and Irish Jacobites—whose blood and treasure
were ungrudgingly thrown at the feet of Royal
representatives of a fallen race. “ We humbly
assure your Majesty, ’ the Jewish address says,
“ of the deeprooted and unwavering loyalty to
your crown and person of your Jewish subjects in
these Australian dependencies, and fervently pray
to the God of Israel to bestow His blessings with-
out restriction upon your Majesty and the Royal
Family,"—and so forth. We are inclined to think,
however, that if the God of Israel did put any
restrictions on the blessings He bestows on Vic-
toria, “ the deeprooted and unwavering loyalty ”
of Messrs. Gotthelf and Co. would reach the
vanishing point with lightning rapidity ; for we
never heard of a Jewish address to a dethroned
and outlawed monarch, nor of Jewish blood being
spilt or Jewish money advanced with the objeot
of restoring a discarded Sovereign to his throne.
* * *
One passage of this precious address reads very
like what Artemus Ward calls “ sarkasum.”
Here it is in all its glory of fine phrases :
“ With profound gratitude to your Majesty for the power-
ful sympathy and encouragement you have consistently and
graciously extended to liberal and enlightened Government,
and with grateful appreciation of the distinguished men who
have zealously and successfully advocated universal equality
of citizenship within your dominions, we exultingly contrast
the severe and unjust disabilities under which the members


of our faith laboured at your Majesty’s accession to the
Throne, with the full freedom they now happily enjoy under
your benign and tolerant sceptre."
When the Queen peruses this lickspittling twaddle
Bhe will naturally cast her gracious mind back to
the plottings she and her Teutonic husband
carried on with the view of defeating the attempts
of earnest Liberals to remove Jewish disabilities.
The Queen’s “ powerful sympathy" has invariably
been displayed more or less surreptitiously on the
side, not of “liberal and enlightened govern-
ment,” but of Toryism and that even worse ism
which has flourished under her “benign aid
tolerant sceptre” as Whigism and Moderate
Liberalism. The true friends of enlightened
government in Britain have nevgr found much
difficulty in combating the reactionary and blun-
dering Conservatives, but have always found
their progress blocked by the old Whig faction ;
and it is in the manipulation of the old Whigs
that Victoria and tho late Prince Albert have
exhibited such consummate dexterity and sapi-
ence during this “glorious reign.”
* * *
It is only just to remark, how ever, that in one
respect the Jewish community of New South
Wales have shown both good taste and sound
sense. They have omitted from their Jubilee
address all reference to the circumstance of Her
Majesty having been graciously pleased a quarter
of a century ago to become a widow ; and they do
not so much a 3 hint at the poetical fiction that she is
still consumed with sorrow at the loss of her hus-
band. The women and girls of tho colony could
not, of course, permit this woeful fact of the
Queen’s life to pass unnoticed. Their address is
short, and quite too exce sively sweet. It runs :
“To the Queen.—We, the women and girls of New South
Walei, desire to offer our congratulations to your Majesty
upon the completion of the fiftieth year of your reign.
With respect and affection we offer our tribute of loyally,
and trust that God Almighty may continue to bless the
Queen, to whose supreme place in birth and station has been
added the sad title of pre-e/ninence in grief.”
Surely there are not many women and girls in
New South Wales willing to subscribe to such
siokening balderda?h and vulgar sycophancy as
this—nor, let us add, to sentiments of any sort
expressed in such bad English. We imagine the
widow of a Bulli coal-heaver with half-a-dozen
starving children at her side is a more pathetic
figure than the relict of a Prince surrounded with
luxury and occupying the ‘ 1 supreme place in
birth and station.” But Lady Carington and the
little coterie of ladies who drafted the women’s
and girls’ Jubilee thanksgiving evidently perceive
a close relationship between supremacy of birth
and station and “pre eminence in grief”—a re-
lationship that is invisible to the naked eye of an
ordinary being.
The Bulli Holocaust.
It was written in a recent issue of The Bulletin
that no time should be lost and no stone left un-
turned in the prosecution of this business—that the
Legislature had provided a perfectly just law, the
enforcement of which was of national importance,
that the masters were amply protected under the
Btatute, and had no ground of complaint whatso-
ever, for if th6y could prove themselves not in
fault their liability vanished—butthatthey werere-
sponsible for the laches of their managers and
overmen, and that notice of action had better be
given in each case at once. The necessity for
instant action has become more evident than ever.
If this gross sacrifice of human lives to the pluto-
cracy is allowed to pass unchallenged by the
trades-unions of Australasia, it will be the sad-
dest spectacle of all. While the golden god is
glistening in the sight of Jubilee grovellers, its
victims are mouldering in the grave, and the cry
of their widows and orphans is stifled by the
jugglery of its power. Every engine is being now
set in motion to throw coal-dust in the eyes of
Justice, and leagued together will' be a com-
bination of every force—the rich man’s news-
papers, the rich man’s inspectors, the rich man’s
managers, the rich man’s experts, end the rich
man’s gold—to remove the onus from the rich
man’s bafck. The crisis for action I aving arrived,
it is for the working men to prove themselves
equal to it.
The tendency displayed b 7 managers, iu3p3c
tors, and experts to prove a minimum of firedamp
and a maximum cf eval dust was. painfully ap-
parent from the commencement. Mr. J. T.
Neilson, the manager of Wallser.d colliery,
stated :
“That he had no Jdoubt that the primary cause of the
explosion was the firing of a ahot in No. 2 heading ; that the
explosion would collectja little more gas, and the coal-dust,
having been distributed, would swell the force of the explo-
■on ; that he knew Millwood in the IV all send mine, and
that he was a competent, careful, and steady miner, and
fitted to undertake the duties cf deiuty in a mine ; that
Millwood had probably beaten the gas out before firing
the phot, and it must have worked back before the shot went
otf ; that he discovered no trace of fire between the heading
and the tunnel-mouth ; that he could not understand how
the horse got burned at the tunnel-mouth.”
Mr. Archibald Gardiner, mining manager and.
certificated manager of the Bullock Island col-
liery, stated that, although he helped to remove
tho bodies, he did not notice if they wore
burnt, but he did notice and took sam
pies of incrustation of timber dust. What
incrusted the dust (dust, mind you, as every
practical miner can tell, that was settled on
the timber before tho explosion) ? Was it not the
intense heat of the blast »f the firedamp ? It may
also be asked of Mr. Neilson— Has coal-dust an
explosive power, such, for instance, as that which
powder lia3 ? Bunkum! The small amount of
coal-dust under ignition could not have any appre-
ciable effect in swelling the force of the explosion,
but the large accumulations of gas had, which
burned up or changed the settled dust on the
timber without removing it. Again, if there were
no sign, as Mr. Neilson stated, no trace of fire
between the headiog and the tunnel-mouth, how
came that burnt horse at the tunnel-mouth?
Once again, if Millwood was, a 3 Mr. Neilson
stated he was, a competent, careful, and steady
miner ’and fitted to undertake the duties of
deputy in a mine, why did he fire a shot that
would ignite accumulated firedamp ? Poor Mill-
wood ! oould he rise from his grave and tell the
story! There appears to have been a desire to
throw the whole blame on that man. May this
not have been with a view to promulgate the
shot-and-coal-dust theory in order to hide the
facts that the grossest carelessness was mani-
fested in the use of open or naked lights in the
veiy face of a perfect magazine of firedamp ? The
extraordinary evidence and theory of the Exa
miner of Coalfields requires only to be mentioned
to be scouted.
* * •
It is in a sense satisfactory to turn from the nau-
seating quibbles of experts, &c., to the plain,
homely, miserable tales of practical miners who
daily slaved among the gas. John Hobbs stated
that be had seen gas lighted often and had assisted
in extinguishing it; that he had seen it catching
light in a lamp in No. 6 heading in the return ;
that his lamp when working was not always
locked. Noah Hobbs stated that he had seen
boys in the gassy flat lighting the ga3 “ for fun ” ;
that he had teen his mate, William Beckton,
working with an unlocked lamp ; that “the over-
man’s lamp went out testing the gas; that White
asked if any one of their lamps was open, and
Beckton said that hts lamp was open, and White
then went six yards from the face , and opened
Beckton's light ! and when witness remarked that
it was not safe there. White said it was, and he
lighted bis lamp! ” And the evidence of the
wheeler, Thomas Morgan, disclosed that on the
Wednesday night previous to the explosion the
gas had been ignited and extinguished by throw-
ing slack, or fine coal, on it; and the night before
tho explosion Charles Hope told Morgan to
hang his naked lamp outside of the board, and
from this lamp, and on the very night before the
explosion, the gas ignited and ran some yards
along towards the face! Much more evidence
could be adduced here, but the foregoing is suffi-
cient to prove the necessity for a most searching
inqu'ry by a properly-constituted commission.
Public Plunder!
This is the only term which cm be fittingly ap-
plied to the proposal of the New South Wales
Government to allow the squatters three years
within which to pay off their indebtedness of
£2,000,000 for rent which has been accruing for
! three years. It has origin in the curse of the
present system of Government. The dirt-be-
grimed political pitchfork is occasionally used
with the result that there aie tossed into Minis-
terial positions eight men who usually have no
qualifications for their offices o her than, perhaps,
long tongues, or long purses, or absolute need,
lhe majority of the eight would, without place
and pay, have no visible means of support, whilst
the remainder are satisfied to make any sacrifice
to have the prefix handle of “ Honorable ” by
courtesy—attached to their names. Combination
to uphold or give effect to some great political
principle is entirely wanting ; the eight are in-
variably banded together for the sole purpose of
furthering self-interest: hence their tenure of
office depends upon the extent to which they are
prepared to pander to the more powerful sections
of the community represented in Parliament.
This is no wild assertion. It is indisputable
that the Parkes Government, for example, owe
their existence to promised favours to the. im-
porters and sqcat‘er3, who, for the present, are
practically the rulers of the colony. These
people recognise that the growing popular feeling
is antagonistic to the maintenance of a system
under which a few men grow fat on the natural
herbage of the count ry. and another set grow fat
on the profits which they make by importing goods
manufactured by half-pauperised Europeans, by
Chinese who are highly paid at 3d per day in
their own country, or by prisoners in American
gaols, and they are determined to comfortably
feather their nests prior to the advent of the im-
pending winter of revolution. To the influence
of these two great powers is solely attributable the
insane propcsals which have been made by the
Government with regard to cu3toms-taxation and
squatters’ rente. For the latter there is no
sanction whatever—no implied popular assent,
and no necessity or expediency. The N. S. W. electors
were not told that the Government whose mission it
was to reduce the public expenditure contemplated
buying support in the House by, in one act,
throwing away £2,000,000 of legitimate revenue.
In fact at the time cf the elections the Govern-
ment seemed to have no settled policy on the
land question—it they had a policy on any ques-
tion—as at one meeting the Minister for Lands
said that the existing Land Act was a perfect
measure, and at ano’her that it was rotten to the
core—these diverse opinions being due doubtless
to the different atmospheric conditions of the two
slightly different periods at which the honourable
gentleman spoke.
What the squatters t re now agitating for are
secured leases for 20 years at a nominal rental and
compensation for improvements, which means
leases in perpetuity. The iirst instalment of these
principles is to be gained under the proposal of
the Government to Extend the payment of the
overdue rents over a period of three years. One
of the squatters’ r< presentatives has suggested
that the first instalment shall bo paid on
the express condition that it is not to
be regarded as an acknowledgment of the
debt. The idea which Mr. Waddell has
in his mind no doubt is that, in the meantime, the
pliable Government may be induced to introduce
a Bill reducing the rents to this amount. Mr.
Kelly, another squatter’s representative, has not
indulged in any vague equivocation on this sub-
ject. He has openly declared that, as far as he
knows, the squatters are determined not to pay
any more rent than it pleases them to pay. In
his new-born zeal in the squatter’s cause, Mr.
Hurley wants to know “whether, having regard
to the fact that maDy squatters have paid their
rents, it is the intention of the Government to
allow them any rebate or consideration as against
those who have not paid.”
All these things indicate a barefaced attempt to
plunder the public. For the use of 150,000,000
acres of land, the wool produced wherefrom last
season—which was supposed to be a very bad one
—is valued at about £7,000,000, the squatters are
asked to pay to the State the paltry sum of
£700,000 per annum—an amount which will not
more than cover the loss occasioned in the rail-
way and postal departments by the conces-
sions made to aid the conveniences provided for
the squatters ; in addition to which there are the
subsidies paid to shipping companies, from which
the principal benefit is derived by pastoralists.
Mr. Fletcher suggested sarcastically not long
since that it would be better to give the squatters
the land at once. This might be a good thing if
for no other reason than that it would put an end
to the political demoralisation which has been
brought about by the persistent wire-pulling of
the New South Wales squatting party.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Partial Press.
The Press is usually held up to admiration as the
“palladium of our liberties.” It does not occur
to most of tho people who at banquets speak thus
of the “fourth estate” that a newspaper is
generally a commercial speculation, just as candle-
selling is, and that it is run for the most part on
purely and absolutely commercial lines. If a de-
cently honest proprietor owns a paper, he will try
to speak the truth as far as he dare. If he has
real grit in him he will find that truth-speaking,
like honesty, is the best policy, and the conse-
quence will be that his journal will gradually in-
crease in circulation and in general prosperity.
Then possibly a struggle may arise in his mind.
He may have to decide whether he shall side with
the views of the advertisers or with those of the
readers. The advertisers, as a rule, think they
have a sort of pre-emptive right to control and
direct editorial opinions, and to decide what is
the most suitable matter for the subscribers. The
readers are not consulted. In Sydney most of the
daily papers are evidently run in the interests of
the advertisers. Those who pay best belong to
the mercantile classes and are firm believers in
the blessings (to themselves) of what in New
South Wales is by a set of credulous individuals
called Freetrade. Not only do they in leading
articles diligently endeavour to propagate their
favourite principles, but they also carefully excise
from their reports of Parliamentary proceedings
anything like a full account of what is said by
Protectionists. This in their opinion is beneath
contempt. At the last New South Wales
general election the speeches of Protectionist
candidates were systematically either lett but
half reported, or not noticed at all. By such
means the rich newspaper-proprietaries seek
favour in the sight of their “best” customers.
Anyone who visits tfie reporters’ gallery in the
Assembly may see for himself how the oracle is
worked. Beside the reporter—who dares not for
his skin give a very full account of the utterances
of any but a Freetrade Kighpriest—sits another
whose mission is to give a sketch of Parliamentary
proceedings, so arranged as to make the wit, the
eloquence, and the wisdom of the House appear
to be concentrated in Parkes and his myrmidons.
The Oppositionists are only marks for scorn and
derision. Again, there is the gallery-leader man,
whose sole aim is to present all the strong points
of the Freetrade speeches to the public, and to
pick out all the fallacies of the Protectionist oaes.
By the disinterested labours of these gentlemen
all that is attractive in Freetrade is perpetually
paraded, while Protection is made consistently
dishonest —at times loathsome, at times gro-
tesque, and nearly always despicable. It is
assumed that the public do not care to
read the “rot” and “bosh" uttered by protec-
tionists, and so a faithful and particular account
of what takes place is withheld from i hem. Every
pencil is busy when a political prig like Mr.
M’Millan repeats by rote his Freetrade cate-
chism, but it is taken as a foregone conclusion
that no good thing can come from the lips of a
glib Meiville, a turgid Walker, or a rugged
O’Sullivan. No one is likely to want a verbatim,
report of these gentlemen’s orations, but it is
indecently unjust that they should eternally
be passed over with a contemptuous sneer.
Even the deliverances of the great Hi-
Ham oftentimes provoke yawning and weari-
ness of spirit, and the account of them might oc-
casionally be curtailed to advantage. The public
require a clear and not a distorted picture of the
proceedings. The Freetrade Press will only give
the one-sided view that will pleate the big ad-
vertisement men. It is time that a revolt against
this practice were begun, and that the newspapei’3
were made to cater for the people and not for a
class. The remedy is easy. Let readers boycott
the journals who will only purvey for them the
Freetrade plums. Down will go the circulation
and with it the patronage of those selfish mono-
polists who are endeavouring to make the world
look at all thiDgs through their deceiving spec
tacles.
How LiODg ?
The Sydney D.T., in its issue of the 27th April,
once more vents its peculiar views on the subject
of Parliamentary obstruction, and In the title
attached to its leading article it demands sternly
and incoherently, “How Long?” Practically,
“ How Thin ?’* would be the better designation.
The article, so far as it means anything at all, is
a savage attack on Abbott and the N.S.W. Pro-
tectionist party, on whom the Telegraph pours
out the viciousness of its lopsided soul in these
terms:—
“However, it is well to learn that even in his present
situation Mr. Abbott retains sufficient vestige of political
conscience to ft el a sense of humiliation at seeing the pitch
of degradation to which he and his lawless followers have re-
duced our political life, and to desire, even at the eleventh
hour, to do something towards remedying the mischief
caused. . . The business of the country cannot be allowed
to stand still merely because an unscrupulous and disorderly
Opposition determines to impede it."
It must take the united abilities of two men to
produce suih woeful, abject drivel as this ; one is
required to collect the ignorance and stupidity,
and the other to make them worse and to pervert
the facts. As the result of their combined efforts
the D.T. expresses itself filled with anguish
because “an unscrupulous and disorderly
Opposition ” is alleged to be obstructing public
buriness and thereby reducing political life to a
hideous “pitch of degradation.” But the
auctioneer-and-parson-ridden paper would do well
to remember that bad habits cannot be shaken off in
a day. Last session, when the present “ unscrupu-
lous Opposition ’ was in power, out of 79 nights
set apart for Government business ro less than 43
were blocked by motions for adjournment brought
forward for the obvious purpose of obstructing
business, and no less t han seven of these were in.
traduced by Mr. Abigail. The gang of
seekers, salary hunters, rioters, unsaved drun
kards, and carpet-baggers, who followed Parkes
the men who made nine-hour speeches, the men
who rushed the Speaker’s chair with rugs round
their shoulders and waste-paper baskets on then-
heads, the men who shrieked across the table
“who the devil are you?” the men who got
drunk and required to be carried out, as well as
those who remained sober and cursed and yelled
througli a fifty-hours’ sitting, reduced the House
to a depth of degradation and disgrace from which
it has not yet recovered ; but for this the Sydney
D.T. blames, not the gentleman by Act of Parlia-
ment who did these tilings, but those who endea-
voured to keep some degree of order amid the
hootiDgs of Parkes and his regiment of loud
mouthed followers. Strangely enough, too, the
evening immediately preceding the publication of
the D.T. jeremiad was frittered away through
obstruction initiated by a member of the Govern-
ment, and Parkes’ charitable grinder can now
boast of being the only Minister in New South
Wales who has ruthlessly stonewalled the business
of private members by a motion of ad-
journment brought forward out of mere
pique and waspishness. This point the Tele-
graph studiously conceals, but the S.M.
Herald, after endeavouring to cripple its subject
by long-range shots, briefly observes that “the
obstruction practised by the Opposition last year
would not in any case afford an excuse for
obstruction now,” and wc presume this statement
of the case is about correct. Similarly, to quote
the words of the Poet Allen, m.P., “if his father
was a Hottentot that is no reason why he should
be one.” But, somehow, the taint of the degraded
African is not so easily got rid of, and Parkes, the
boss political Hottentot of New South Wales, has
done his best to bequeath his characteristics to his
successors on the Opposition benches of the
Assembly.
Burns and His Bter Duty.
Last week Mr. Dibb3 asked the New South Wales
Colonial Treasurer if he still entertained the in-
tention of collecting the duty on beer from May 1,
as stated in the budget speech, despite the absence
of an Act of Parliament authorising the impost.
Treasurer Burns replied decidedly in the affirma-
tive. Yet any school boy could have told him
that he could not do this without the acquiescence
of every one of the brewers. Any brewer could
legally refuse to pay the duty and even to permit
an exciseman on his premises; and it would
scarcely suit even Burns' sense of right to make
those brewers who happened to be well-disposed
towards his policy, pay the duty while those an-
tagonistic to him escaped scot free. It
seems, however, that this genius of a
Treasurer had no notion whatever of there being
any legal difficulty in ths way of patting the new
tax in force on Monday ; and on the preceding
Friday everything was in readiness to carry out
the soheme. Excisemen were told off for each
brewery, prepared to gauge the output of beer
and levy the taxes. But suddenly Burns became
aware that the brewers had taken the opinion of
eminent counsel on the point at issue, and were
advised to resist the excise officers. He then con-
ceived the brilliant idea of cor suiting the Crown
Law cfficers touching his right to impose an un-
authorised tax—and was, or couse, met with an
irritating guffaw, and afforded the information he
might have obtained from a primary school-
reader, that the power to levy taxes has been
vested in Parliament from time immemorial— that
even Charles’ I.’s ship-money impositions were
in violation of the law—and that, now-a-days
the case is regarded as settled as finally
as the theory of the earth’s rotundity and
its movements in relation to the sun. Well,
what did Burns do ? A large minded man
would have prepared himself to frankly admit
that he had taken an erroneous view of the
powers vested in the Executive ; but Burns
couldn’t bring himself to this. He concocted a
circular notice to the brewers, acquainting them
that the Government intend to introduce a Bill
into Parliament asking for authority to levy the
proposed beer tax from May 1 ; and adding that
from that date each brewer is required to keep a
detailed account of his manufacture and sales.
Of course this is only a piece of vulgar bluff.
Even if Parliament is simple enough to pass
Burns’ Bill with a retrospective operation, it
will be impossible to enforce it retrospectively
as against those brewers who are unwilling
to oblige Burns by furnishing the re-
quisite statistics. One or two excessively
honest brewers might supply tho information
demanded of them, but the majority c.rtainly
will not, so that Burns' schemo is not only to tax
industry but honesty also. But this gifted finan-
cier thought he would cover up the thinness of his
retreat from an untenable position by another
little device. He inspired paragraphs in the
newspapers to the effect that the brewers had
been “sold” and “had," his object being to in-


duCe at least a few gulls to believe that he Is'a
very clever fellow and knows exactly what he i
about. If ever a Minister made himself ridicu
lous before Parliament and the country, surely
this intellectual pigmy has accomplished the feat
O'Connor’s Triumph.
Mr. Daniel O’Connor is evidently not so capabl
of divining what is beyond a semi opaque Bub
stance as many people though* he .was. Th
alacrity and “pleasure” with which he aeceptec
the amendment of the Government on his motion
in favour of carrying all school children free on
the New South Wales railways are hardly credi
ble, in view of the obvious intent and drift of the
modification. The grievance O’Connor requested
should be redressed is very plain and real
About 60 per cent, of the children in New Souti
Wales are educated almost entirely at the cost 01
the State A majority of the children reside
adjacent to railways, and wh»re a Public Schoo
does not exist at any particular centre on a rail
way line free passes are granted to carry them to
the nearest Public School. If, for instance, there
was no Public School at Auburn, the children
there could claim the right under the law
of free passes to Granville or Rookwood, which
ever was the nearest station at which
Public School was established, but no further.
A parent might have important reasons for fend
ing his children to a more distant Public School,
but in such case he would have to pay their fares.
But there are many parents who, for various rea-
sons, prefer to send their children to schools other
than those under the Department of Public In-
struction. Since these parents are in the minority,
and inasmuch as the schools they happen to pre-
fer receive no State aid, it follows that the
schools in question are fewer and more widely
separated than the Public Schools. The Roman
Catholics have complained, and with great jus-
tice, that while they are prevented by conscien-
tious scruples from sending their children to the
so-called National sohcols, they are compelled to
contribute indirectly to pay for the support of
those schools, and, furthermore, are debarred
absolutely from the privilege of free passage for
their children on the railways. Mr. O’Con-
nor's motion aimed at redressing the
latter grievance. By virtue of his scheme
a Roman Catholic school, situate, say, at
Parramatta, could gather in scholars from any
distance along the railways from all points of the
compass, without charge for fares. Yet he readily
consented to ihe Ministerial amendment, though
it completely defeats his object. The amendment
declares : “ That provision should be made for
the issue of free passes to any child to travel in a
suitable railway carriage or van to and from any
school, a primary schoo), private or otherwise,
provided that such school shall be the one nearest
to the residence of the parents or guardians of
the child." It there could be any misconception
as to the meaning of this amendment when Mr.
O’Connor accepted it as a fair settlement of the
issue he raised, there oould be none after Parkes
explained that the object was simply to put the
scholars of all schools on an equal footing as
regards using the railways. The effect of the
settlement is this : Suppose at A. there is a Pub-
lic School, then no children whatsoever can claim
free passes thence to any other paint on a railway.
Suppose, farther, there is no Public School at A.,
but one at the next station B. Then the Roman
Catholic children, who would doubtless require to
travel much further in order to reach a school of
their own denomination, would still be disabled
from using the railway without paying, because a
Public School was passed en route. If the Roman
Catholics and others who have complained of the
clause in the Public Instruction Act which ex-
ceptionally benefits Public School children, are as
satisfied with the arrangement Mr. Dan. O'Connor
seized upon as all that was wanted, all we can say
is that we have always misunderstood their point
of view.
Queen’s Jubilee.
i.i At Government House,
Sydney, Lady Caring ton
Lady Darley, Miss Ste-
phen, Miss Parkes, and
the Mayoress agreed that
the following address
should be laid before the
women of New
South Wales for their
acceptance and signa-
ture :
“TO IHE QUEEN.
“We, the women and girls
of New South Wales, desire
to offer our congratulations
to your Majesty upon the
completion of the fiftieth
year of your reign. With re-
spect and affection we offer
our tribute of loyalty, and
trust that God Almighty may
continue to bless the Queen,
to whose supreme place in birth
and station has been added the
sad title of pre-eminence in
grief."-- Sydney Morning
Heralt>.
“We alight at the door of
Ft. An.tells Vicarage, (iod!
What a fight to see ! We are
in the midst of a horde of a:-
tually starving human beicgs.
Human, they maybe, but one
idea, one care, one thought
only, is paramount, and that
—hunger. We see men, m»n
born in God’s image, but be-
yord that, non-existing.
Hunger and despair, woe-
begone faces, and long-drawn
features, ravening hunger,
nothing else. Intellects go-
ing or gone; save a s'aring,
fixed gaz*, theie is scarce an
ebullition of intellect in the
entire throng. The vast ma-
jority are agriculturists out
of employment, whose wives
and chiliien are homeltss.
Their women folk and chil-
dren are nurtured t nee a week
by Rev. Mr. Nugee and his
‘ Bisters,’ and many are the
baits we learn of self-abnega-
sion in favour of child' en cr
husband. Deaths by abso-
lute starvation are not un-
common, and our blood
stands still as we learn cf
cases where the coffee has
absolutely to be poured down
the throats of women and
men whose limb 3 or jaws are
too frigid and we-»k e en to
hold a cup or swallow its con-
tents.” — London paper by last
Mail.
Newspaper Trains.
According to the Sydney D. T. all the members
of the Pakkes Government are splendid fellows,
except the Minister of W orks. Sutherland is
the bad boy of the family that has settled itself
comfortably in office, and hut for him the family
might be happy for all time. He is the cause of
an infinitude of trouble. He is always up to some
mischief —is a meddler, a muddler, and, above all,
is perennially contriving some job of a more or
less corrupt character. He is called “ honest
John,” but that title, the D.T. declares, is only
given in derision. On the other hand, Lyne, the
ex-Minister of Works, is described bythe D.T. as
a remarkably clever and honest fellow. The
party of which Sutherland is a prominent
member is, nevertheless, just now supported as
zealously by the D.T. as the party of which Lyne
is a member is, and has been for some time past,
bitterly opposed by that erratic journal. One
naturally seeks a reason for this singling out of
Suth ttland as the black sheep of the Parkks'
flock, and the equally strange selection of Lyne as
the only one worthy of support on the other side of
the House. But the reason is not hard to find.
When Lyne vacated office he left everything cut
and dried ror the running of a morning train on
the Southern line as far as Albury. The scheme
was invented in the D.T. office with the object of
getting that newspaper circulated in districts
where it is now only known by repute as the
organ of the rag-importers of Sydney. Suther-
land no sooner got into harness than he put his
veto on this transparent iob; and herein we
find the explanation of the D.T.’s extraordinary
hostility to Sutherland, and still more extraor-
dinary friendship for Lyne. The train required
by the Sydney morning papers would cause a loss
to the Government of £20.000 a year. Let the papers
have it by all manner of means—on condition of
their paying this annual sum. But that doesn’t
suit their little game. The D.T. especially is
desirous of having a special newspaper train run
at the expense of the public, and will be satisfied
with nothing less. Even its pet fad, Freetrade,
may go to smash, but a free tiain to carry its
lucubrations over the southern districts of N. S.
Wales it will have; or hunt the denying Minister
from office. Yet the D.T. has the impudence to
set itself up as an opponent of corruption ! The
use of the railways by the newspapers is even
now in violation of the law. Parliament, in a fit
of insensate liberality, ordained that newspapers
should be carried free by post. There is no rea-
son worthy of the name why newspapers should
be carried by Government for nothing any more
than potatoes or coals But let that pass. The
liberty to use the post-office without payment has
been enlarged by newspaper proprietors into free
Mr. JAMES D. GRAY, EDITOR OF “GRAFTON ARGUS.”—(See Page 7.)
usage of the railways. A traveller informs us i
that a certain traia was seven minutes after Ihe
appointed time of starting from Redfern the other j
day He inquired the cause of the delay, and was !
told the train was waiting for the up-country
issue of a weekly journal. By and bye a cart, with
about half-a-ton of papers, arrived, and when
these had been stowed away in the luggage-van
the train moved off. Yet if anybody had
been in most urgent need of despatching a half-
ounce (properly stamped) letter by that train he
would have been confronted with insuperable
difficulties. ’lhe tons and tons of papers turned
out by the SydDey journals are carried by
Government without charge, by rail, by coach, by
horse-carriers, and by foot carriers. That is right
enougb, provided the papers all go through the
Post. Office, because Parliament has “in its wis-
dom ” authorised the free transmission of news-
papers through the post; but when newspaper
proprietors transfer their patronage to the rail-
ways, and procure the running of trains just to
suit their convenience, we submit the intention
of Parliament, is considerably exceeded. The
Bulletin has not had much faith in Sutherland
tince he associated himself with Freetraders after
Mr. S. W. SMITH, EDITOR OF “RIVERINA HERALD,” ECHUCA.-(S ee Page 7.)
years devoted to the cause of Protection ; but if
he continues to make a firm stand against the
greedy effort* of the D.T. and other papers to get
a finger in the public puree The Bulletin will
not refuse him a just measure of praise.
Parkes and the Unemployed.
In the New South Wales Assembly last week the
Premier advanced some extraordinary reasons
why the petition of the unemployed to be heard
at the bar of the House should not be granted.
He said that it is not the duty of the State to find
employment for the people ; then, he drew a nice
distinction between cases of unavoidable personal
misfortune, and of personal grievances, which
were attributed to some action of the Government
and he contended that, in the former class of
cases, it would be a violation of constitutional
principles to allow any petition to Parliament.
Ergo, as the unemployed, in his opinion, were
simply unfortunates, they had no right to enter
the sacred precincts of Parliaiaent to ask for
assistance. In the abstract the contention that it
is not the duty of the State tp find employment
for the people is sound enough, but no one would
be so insane as to contend that it is not the duty
of the State to take care that people who are will-
ing, and able, to work shall not, if the State can
help it, die of starvation. Then the question
naturally arises whether you are simply to pro-
vide food and shelter for the people, and allow
them to loaf about the streets, or, whether, in re
turn for the provision which is made for them,
they shall not be called upon to undertake some
work which will be beneficial to the community.
Without entering into aDy controversy on Sir
Henry's doctrine as to the constitutional right of
petitioa, beyond remarking that it is a startling
novelty to hear that one of “the great bulwarks
of British liberty”—the right of petition—is
limited by any consideration, it must be pointed
out that the application of it was quite fallacious.
The specific grievance of the unemployed, as they
have openly expressed it, is that their distressed
condition has been brought about directly by the
ac*ion of the Government in making less pro-
vision than has been made in former years for
the expenditure of money on public works, on
which a large number of the men have relied frr
means of subsistence, and, further, that the
avowed policy of the Government is to discourage
the establishment of local industries in which a
large proportion of the existing surplus labour
might be legitimately employed. They may be
entirely wrong in their assumption that the
Government is in some measure responsible for
their unfortunate condition, but that is a matter
whic Parliament ought to have had an oppor-
tu. ; to decide after hearing a statement of the
case it is probable that Ihe object of Sir Henry's
fanciful constitutional objections was to prevent
the unpleasant truths associated with the unem-
ployed question being too powerfully emphasized;
he did not wish to have it too plaioly demon'
strated that his professed sympathy for the dis-
tressed individuals wyas nothing more than poli-
tical “jaw.” The only “ constitutional” question
which troubles the woi kii'K men of New South
Wales just now is how they are I o keep body and
soul together, bqt they are not likely to forget
that Sir Henry Parkes denied their right to ask
Parliament for help, while he contended that it
was perfectly proper for a few Chinese slave mer-
chants to appear personally before Parliament to
protest against a poll-tax on their countryman
and for certain melon mashers to represent at the
bar of the Assembly that their trade would be in-
jured by the imposition of a duty on puip-frui'.
The Sydney D.T. has discovered that Victoria
knows better how to arrange for the puroha-e and
inspection of Government supplies in England
than New ..outh Wales. The Victorian system is
to make the material deliverable subject to the
approval of officials in the colony, and to hold 10
au r amv t -Thi t s h s C , ontlaCtPriCe 83 a guarantee of
quality. This system was improvised not merely
to protect the local manufacturers. The effect of
it is tantamount to an impost of at least 15 per
cent, on the prime cost of the goods. British and
foreign manufacturers set up a woeful howl the
other day when a similar plan was adopted by
the New South Wales Railway Department
in connection with the supply of locomo
tives. They declared that it would
tically throw them out of the contest P and
t r oT, d afflr T d \ hat the arrangement was simply
to pu t the contract into the hands of local contract
tors. And so really it was. With the errsnii™
t Steel rails, all the important material required
for the Victorian railways is manufactured in that
colony—and this eminently satisfactory circum-
stance is maiDly due to the manner of enforcing
delivery and making payment in Victoria. The
New South Wales method is to “inspect" and
pay at the manufacturers' works, a method which
gives the English supplier, whoemploys cheap labor
and who is pleased to regard the inspection even of
Sir John Fowler as rather a fares, an over-
whelming advantage over colonial manufacturers
However, the D.T. favours the adoption of the
Victorian system by New South Wales. So mote
it be ! The result of the adoption cannot fail to
be highly advantageous to local manufacturers
to the colony at large, and, in the long run, to the
public Treasury.
Panton, P.M . of Melbourne District Polic
Court, says: “Some Justices of the Peace giv
such ridiculous sentences.” Q" tecorrect. Nothin
has ever shaken public confldtnce in the adminis-
tration of justice more than the fourteen dayi’
imprisonment, without the option of a fine
which Mr. Paxton thought it right to join wit]>
the majority of justices in inflicting upon Book
maker Sutton at the ins'ance of Lord Beer
thirst.
The high-toned philanthropists of Melbourne, who
a-e at present running the Immorality and Seduc
tion questions to the great delight of the loca
Daily Telegraph, have been to Attorney-Genera
Wrixox to ask him to make better provision for
the protection of women than the present law
affords. But the clergy of the deputation had
special nostrum to recommend. It was that
woman should be allowed by law to prove the
paternity of a child before the birth thereof, be
cause, it was alleged, such a course would lead to
marriages and happiness ever afterwards. The
idea of a hostile proceeding by a seduced woman
leading to a happy marriage could not possibly
occur to anybody but those crack-brained
moralists who s'roll about decorated with white-
chokers. And what woman, it may be asked
would proclaim her condition before the whole
world in hopes of a forced marriage!
♦
From the Melbourne Daily Telegraph, a parson-
boused sheet of no account: —
" Very grave rumours are afloat respecting the Bulli
disaster, which, if true, will entirely alter the complexion ol
the case, and bring the community in»o the presence of a
dreadful crime. It is reported that the Government received
eeeiet intelligence shortly after the accident. It is al o ftated
that the police are on the track of evidence, and are huntina
for men who have suddenly disappeared.”
This is drawing, not a red herring, but a whale
across the scent. The mine-owners would, no
doubt, Pke to see the Government and the police
skirmishing round after nameless men who have
suddenly disappeared, instead of inquiring into
mismanagement which seems akin to man-
slaughter. Most people would imagine that the
unlocked lamps, which seem to have been in use
all over the mine, the smoking, the blasting, and
the conduct of tho larky boys who were accus-
tomed to light the gas-accumulations “for fun’
without anybody to upbraid them for their reck
lessness, were quite sufficient material for the
police to exercise their brains upon, without
starting in search of individuals who, if they ever
existed, are not likely to be caught before next
Jubilee.
Hale the terrors of the battle-field have been
wiped out by a German chemist who has just in
vented an anesthetic bullet. This bullet is brittle
and breaks directly it comes in contact with the
object fired at. It contains a powerful anicathetic
which produces instantaneous and absolute in-
sensibility, lasting for 12 hours Future battle-
fields will thus look like picnic grounds where all
the revellers have got dead-drunk. It will
only remain for the unwounded members of the
victorious army to empty the pockets of their
snoozing ” enemies, pack the latter up in bundles
and ship them off for trade to the Cannibal
Islands. War has indeed been reduced to a
science.
The little clique of female K.C.M.G.’s who are*
Jubilee-addressing Queen Victoria from Sydney,,
have the gall’ to say than ‘to her supreme
place in birth and station ’the well-gilded Mrs.
Gi ELPii adds the sad title of pre eminence in.
grief. Humph ! All things considered, we feel
ourselves at liberty to presume that in this case
grief is an unfortunate misprint for “ grease.’
But then, again, that can hardly be, considering
the aniount of grease evidently in the possession
of the leading ladies" of Sydney. Nevertheless
Queen \ ictoria is well greased. She has long
lived on the fat of the land.
Different rulers, different rules. In Queens
sml I l,e Postal and Telegraph Departments are-
prohibited from joining the defence-force of the
with . out ' special permission. No such
difficulty exists in Sydney. The choicest bios
soms of the Now South Wa’es Torpedo Corps are
selected from the Telegraph Department, and
people are wondering why, if the superintendent,
assistant-superintendent, chief manager, andi
other high-up officials in this branch of the ser-
vice can be dispensed with for nine days to fool
round at an Easter encampment, they cannot be
done without entirely. If they are indispensable,
the business of the Department must necessarily
suffer by their absence at one of the very busiest
seasons of the year ; if they are not, why then is
the country, in its “ hour of need," as Plain Bill
would say, siddled with something like £3OOO per
annum in the way of salaries for them ?
Parkes now supports his Freetrade folly by as-
serting that there is more poverty in America
than in England, and less prosperity in Victoria
than in New Soil I. Wales, and that there are un-
mistakable indications that the people of America
' c f. on ‘;, a '' e bitterly repenting their stupidity
ptmg the blue-mouldy policy of protection
which ground England to the dust." These ab-
surd assertions-especially in view of the fact that
e eading British tribunals of commerce are
veering towards Protection—serve but to excite
t and , to J ca ’ l t 0 mind the musty saying
about the period at which gods deprive people of
their senses. Here is a cablegram which on last
rv!l nC s da> .■ We ?, k was Published in that organ of
Freetrade, the Sydney Daily Telegraph
merce' > i"n d r'H«^nw da eet [ ngs of the Chambers °f Com*-
auestioS of .? Manches tcr last night discussed the
G fgowd«M, J ad ? TCr sus. Protection. The meeting at
andthJt a , lar V e majority m favour of ProUction,
ana that at Manchester in favour of Freetrade."
Weak as the newiy-eiected New South Wales
Assembly has proved itself to be, morally and
intellectually, it will be surprising to learn that
the avo wed malcontents an the Government side
are satisfied with Parkes' explanation as to his
failure to propose a property-tax. The “ sound
mg process involved in Mr. Wise’s “ put-up ,r
speech as to the impracticability of imposing a
pioperty-tax until a Local Government Act was


in force, having proved that the Ministry was in too
shallow water, the only excuse left for Parkes
was that he had not time to prepare a Bill. This
puts the Government into still shallower water.
Parkes and political plagiarism are synonymous
terms Every act of Pariiament of which he
claims the authorship is a “ crib.” If he had been
sincere in his professions about a props rty-tax he
could have introduced a Bill immediately on the as-
sembling of Parliament. All that he would have to
do would have been to assume his old position of
ecissors-and-pasle man. The New Zealand Act,
which has been in operation for some years, and
which answers its purpose admirably without in-
flicting injustice on anyone, could have been
adopted almost in its entirety—all the alterations
which it would have been necessary for the Great
Political Adapter to make would have been such
as were required to meet different local conditions.
Parkes says that the whole system of New South
Wales taxation is to be reviewed and remodelled.
Of course it is, but not by Parkes and his pup-
pets. They daren’t do it, if they could. How
many of them know the forms of the Insolvency
Court better than they do their prayers, and how
many of them have not been sufficiently clever
political manipulators to avoid being out ? May the
saints help New South Wales if such financiers as
these ever succeed in an attempt to pass a general
scheme of taxation 1
We are told that Sir John Fowler, who has
been getting £7OOO a year to inspect, in London,
railway material for the New South Wales
Government, is a brother in law of Mr. John
Whitton, engineer-in-chief for New routh Wales
railways. Mr. Whitton, it is said, got his pre-
sent appointment from Sir John Fowler's father,
who was then consulting or referee engineer for
New South Wales in London. All in the family,
you see. As a contrast to Parkes’ intimate and
particular friend, Fowler with his little £7OOO a
year of good red Treasury gold, we may mention
that the material received by the New South
Wales Existing Lines branch (presided overby Mr.
Cowdery, C. E ) requires no examination in Eng-
land. It is simply sent out (as it ought to be)
at the contractor’s own risk, and if it is not up to
the mark it is thrown back on the hands of the
would-be seller, who, knowing by bitter experi-
ence that there is an honest official at this end,
takes preoiousgocdcare not to ship shoddy. Lookat
the matter as you may, this £7OOO-a-ye»r business
is a monstrous imposture on the New South Wales
consolidated revenue.
Pity the sorrows of poor Secretary Pulsford !
Hehad dropped into geometry to assisthim,and has
made confusion worse confounded. Writing of a
hypothetical purchase of £300,000 worth of loco-
motives, he remarks in the most breezy manner
possible that the matter may be represented by
a triaDgle thus :
” The apex called A, angles of the bases B C A repre-
sents England, which has lent capital to buy the locomotives
required by New South Wales, B represents general goods
arrived in the colony, and C represents locomotives arrived
or made in the colony. The locomotives c.n be obtained in
two ways, either A C or A B C ; but in neither way can we
escape having to receive shipment". We can supply our-
seivesby(A C) getting the locomotives direct, or we can
supply ourselves by (A B C) getting other goods, and with
the proceeds of them paying for the making of the locomo-
tives in the colony, the number of locomotives being reduced
Just as the cost is higher than the cost of imported one.”
That, of course, makes the whole business as
clear and lucid as if it were sunk to the bottim of
a hogshead of tar and buried down a coal pit. All
that Pulskord now requires is to be Ailed to the
ears with figures, and bound in green cloth and
packed away on a back shelf as a standard work
on political economy. The most hopeless idiot
alive mutt clearly eee that, taking A as the loco-
motives, and B as the goods, C the colony, can
either import one and owe for the other, or go in
debt for the lot. and therefore the aigleA B,
being equal to the angle A C, the greater is in-
cluded in the less, and the circle is squared,
Q.E.D. Something decisive must be done with
Pulsford. If he isn’t called off soon there won't
be a sound set of brains in the whole of New
South Wales.
The Imperial Conference is now shown to be a
swindle sprung upon the colonies by the Salis-
bury Government. No matter whether the reso-
lutions come to be accepted or not, it is easy to see
that they are being “ forced” by the English re-
presentatives, who have been prepared with all
their schemes in advance, whilst the Australians
were bamboozled into believiDg that the Con-
ference was not to deal with any specific projects.
It is such cases as this, and the money-grubbing
fiasco anent New Guinea, and the cesspit idea
illustrated by the Pathan incident, which go to
prove that Australia mu3t consult her interests
within herself, and that the longer any unsympa-
thetic and over-reaching foreign country is al-
lowed to “ boss the show,” the worse the mess
that will have to be got out of before things can
finally be put straight.
It is not generally known, but it is a fact for all
that, that every male Italian must enrol and do
three years' military service as soon as he reaches
the age of 21 This probably accounts for the
fact that very few Italians pay a visit to King
Umberto's war-vessels when they anchor in
Australian harbours. Hundreds of Italians here
landed when they were mere boys, but being now
fit to bear arms they are in danger of being ar-
rested and packed home to put in their three
years’ drill. The ever-watchful M'Elhone seeni3
to have heard something of this, and, citching on
to the wrong end of the trouble, as usual, he
startled the N.S. W. Assembly the other night by
declaring that Sir Henry Parkes, having ac-
cepted a title from the King of Italy, was practi
cally an alien, and, therefore, debarred from hold-
ing a seat in the House. Possibly he feared there
was a danger also of Parkes being seized by the
local Italian Consul and packed off to learn the
“ goose-step,” &c., in the barrack yard at Rome ;
or, worse still, that Henry might in time be-
come so demoralised as to travel round in
company with a bob-tailed baboon, grinding
“ Una Voce,” and “ Partant pour la Syrie.” out
of a broken-winded hurdy-gurdy. The Upper
Hunter howler may keep his hair on, however, as
Parkes’ foreign title is thought no more of in
Italy than his English one is here. Parkes was
Premier of N S W. when the Marquis de Rays’
victims arrived in Sydney, and for doing that,
which officially and for the sake of common
humanity he could not help, King Umberto
granted him the title of “ Cavaliere della Corona
d’ Italia.” There are two divisions in this order,
however, one for Italians, and one for the
forcstiero, and it was in the latter Parkes was
enrolled. Messrs. Wise and Marsh, who bossed
the Agricultural Hall while the castaways were
lodged in it, received a second rank order, while
povero Orlando, the Public Library clerk who did
all the real work, was, of course, left out in the
cold. There is no cause for the vigilant
M’Elhone’s alarm. The Italians will not claim
Sir Henry. They have too many humbugs of
their own already.
SUNDRY SHOWS
If any gentle-
man connected with
the theatrical pro-
fession, or any
gentleman connected with any
other profession, or anybody who
is not a gentleman, takes offence
at anything on this page we beg
to mention that the fighting
editor is out. He has gone to
take a bath, and he is laid up
with a bad cold, and in fact he
has gone to see a sick relative in Siam, and he is
also very ill through being poisoned with a tin of
flsh, and, net to put too fine a point upon it, he is
dead—very dead, indeed. Everybody else is out
also, so that, no matter how much some tragedian
or ticket-taker may feel himself maligned, it is no
good calling to take vengeance this week. Also,
as we are going to continue out, it is no good call-
ing at all, either now or any other time. The night
watchman will apologise abjectly on behalf of the
whole staff if anybody objects to anything. Call
at 11.30 p m., and holler to him through the key
hole. On the other band if anybody feels particu-
larly gratified at any little effort we have made on
his behalf and wishes to shout, the threepence will
be thankfully received by the writer either in the
form of cash, crossed cheque, postage stamps, or
donations of clothing. There is no darned pride
about him, anyhow.
** * *
“The New Magdalen,” produced at Sydney
Royal Standard last Friday for Mr. Dampier’s bene-
fit, is a drama which recommends itself to every-
body whose soul is notsoddenwith sixpenny novels
and scalps. Like the majority of Charles Reade’s
"THINGS WESEE
WHEN WE COME OUT
WHOUT OUR GUN."
productions, it was written with a distinct pur
pose in view. The object of the play is to show
the evils that are likely to ensue when German
batteries fire promiscuously at two girls and hit
one of them on the head with a cannon-ball so as
to leave her stunned for six weeks, and in a
secondary degree the author inculcates the great
m; ral lesson that the other girl should not change
clothes with the damaged one and embezzle her
bag of clean shirts without first making sure that
she is dead. These two points are carefully
worked out by the aid of a curate with a most
remarkable appetite, who feeds h : s way in a
Christian spirit r.ght through the story. He
points out to the heroine that fhe had better give
up all her luxury and riches and go back to sleep
in a tank than wrong the girl who had her head
stove in under the circumstances already men-
tioned, and his burning eloquence ultimately
ropes the beautiful, dark haired sinner in t o the
fold. She resigns her portfolio, gives up the other
girl’s clothes, and retires to a reformatory, while the
curate starts to cool his burning brow by holding
prayer-meetings in the slums and takes fever.
For many weary days he is oblivious to all that
goes on around him, but even while he is delirious
and turning somersaults in his robes of night he
wails for his lost love to come out of that beastly
reformatory and be his bride. As the curate, Mr.
Dampier made one of his greatest successes, and
Miss Katherine Russell, who represented the girl
wiih the cannon-ball, made the best of a rather
thankless part. Miss Lily Dampier did the other
girl ; Mr. Boothman appeared as a journalist,
with a wizened-up soul and a diseased imagina-
tion ; and Mr. Leston represented a touzle-headed
German miscreant clad in a dirty duster. A good
part of the audience was left out in the street for
want of space, but those inside threw six barrow-
loads of flowers at Miss Dampier in token of their
homage, and cheered vociferously when Mr.
Dampier pointed out in a neat little speech that
he had played in Sydney for 22 months without a
stain on his character. The proceedings closed
mostly with drinks.
Raynor Brothers will retire from Sydney
Academy after this week—the idea being perhaps
to take a spell and invent some new jokes. Their
present programme opens with an alleged comedy,
which is announced to be the work of A. R
Sedgewiok—to whom we hereby tender our sin-
cere symathy—and Mr. W. B. Cadzow, “thepeer-
less tenor,” then rises to smg “ the latest ballads.”
The tenor is there all right, but some of the ballads
are very late indeed. Miss Amy Rowe, a double-
voiced lady, also sings ballads, and then she sings
another ballad, and Mr. Cadzow comes back and
sings one more ballad. Also someone else seems
to sing a ballad. All the ballads are very nicely
sung. The Raynor Brothers go through their old
performance, which still takes immensely ; and
Alf. Lawton, who is always equal to the occasion,
does a whole comedy single-handed, and then he
does another comedy with George Gardiner to help
him. We left iust as somebpdy was starting to
sing a ballad.
*# # #
“ I Promessi Sposi,” which was put on at
Sydney Theatre Eoyal last Monday night for the
first time, is an adaptation of Manzoni’s romance.
Theie are defects in the condensation of the story,
but the brilliant music lifts the piece above the
level of ordinary opera. Signora Tagliavia, as
Lucia, was most happy in both acting and sing-
ing, her solo in the first act and her duo with the
Lady of Monza in the convent scene being par-
ticularly felicitous. Signorina Cavalleri, as the
Lady of Monza, sang well, and imbued her part
with much dramatic feeling. Santinelli, as
Renzo, was in much better voice than usual, and
evidently thoroughly comprehended his rtile.
Signor Pimazzoni, though an acquired taste,
this time installed himself in the affections of the
audience, and Buzzi was effective as Fra Cristo’aro.
The overture was repeated in response to the
plaudits of the people. Altogether the opera was
a success and deserves to make a hit.
## % #
Oogill’s Minstrels are running a long un-
wieldy programme at Sydney Gaiety, and the
items fall over each other and bark their shins in
the efforts to get done in time. The premises are
densely crowded, and the whole show—financially
speaking—is caked with glory three inches thick.
These surprising athletes, the St. Clair Brothers,
hang on to a rope for a while and then fall off,
and Fred. Garnett doubles himself up in his old
snaky fashion, and after swallowing nearly the
whole of his frame throws himself up in the air
and comes out underneath a chair. Onzalo, the
flying man. also jumps from the stage on to the
roof, and comes back through a hoop which hangs
in mid air, and one nigger brains another with a
tomahawk. On several thrilling occasions the
gallery breaks out into a whoop, such as we have
not heard since young David M‘'Lavish,
in kilts, sat down on hU mother’s hot
flat iron in our boarding-house. We
notice among the ladies one whose name
—Ann Smith —we fancy we have heard
before, and we would be glad to know if
she is any relation to another Smith whose
beast of a Latin dictionary used to be a
stumbling-block in our path in the happy days of
childhood,
*# * #
The aesthetic suburb of Newtown (Sydney),
where there are 72 leparate and well-defined
stenches, is billed from end to end with the
announcement that Alf. lawton's Minstrels are to
start at the Theatre of Varieties shortly.
#* # *
Carrie Swain is still making a furore a
Sydney Criterion.
** * *
Mr. Dantpier has 1 everted to “ Life in th
Coalpits” at Sydney Royal Standard. “Th
Two Orphans, ’ backed up by the united energie
of Miss Norton and Mr. A. Sidney, from London
will follow.
#* * *
Grattan Riggs ar.d his artistic gang ar
still running •'First-Class” at Sydney Oper
House with hideous regularity. The financia
results appear to be good enough to make th
average journalist grow envious.
## # #
“Skipped by the Light of the Moon,” a
Melbourne Bijou, finds a little more success tha
might be expected. Geo. R. Sims is creditec
with having written “Skipped” under th
original title of “A Gay City,” but the presen;
production is probably m ade up of alterations ant
additions. No man, writing in cold blood, coult
turn out the thing as it now stands. Mr. John
Gourlay and Mr. W. B. Warner, assuming to b
city clerks and behaving like clowns, put in som
well-rehearsed pantomime business, but, barring
a comic policeman and a property baby, no on
else appears to be imbued with the spirit of thi
“Humorous Creation.” Until Mr. Gourlay ap
pears in a lucidly-conceived character, it is im
possible to say whether he is anything more than
a “grotesque.” Under a preposterous make-up
he wears a Kyrle Bellewesque countenance which
should be a passport to feminine favour in lover
parts.
#* # *
Variety business is healthy in Melbourne
just at present. Frank Clarke is scooping in the
small silver as steadily and relent lastly as an
“ offertory ’ plate. The Hugo and Horace Bent
combination have much to be thankful for, anc
away at the pretty little Nugget Theatre, people
are coming up smiling to Cottier’s Minstrels. The
latter show is good enough to hold its own at an
unpopular house. A Circle of Accomplished
Ladies stands out in bold relief against a male
background of burnt cork beauty, producing a
pleasing effect—especially on Saturday nights.
## # #
In the absence of local novelties “ A Run
of Luok”is Btill paying its way at Melbourne
Theatre Royal.
** * *
The Ektr’ Acte, speaking of our old
friend, Levy, the great cornetist, says : “ His lip
has lost none of ffs cunning, neither is there any
falling off discernible in his cheek."
*■***■
Brough and Boucicault have licked the
“Shaughraun” into better shape at Melbourne
Opera House during the past week, and business
is pretty good. Company and play are both of
good repute, nevertheless it is evident that, in
producing Irish drama, the management has erred
and strayed from the right way till they are in
the position of lost sheep, seeking whom they may
devour and finding it not. Our poor opinion of
the “ Shaughraun ” show is confirmed by the fact
that the Melbourne dailies, without exception,
admired it much. That which the morning papers
love dies young, usually. “ Colleen Bawn ” is
the next revival.
*# # #
The Jorans took a farewell ben. at Mel-
bourne Athena-um, on Saturday, without benefit-
ing to quite the extent anticipated. According
to announcement these three little maids from
school will shortly trip away to Europe to com-
plete their musical education. As juvenile phe-
nomena they shine, and if their genius matures
as rapidly as their figures we see no just cause or
impediment why they shouldn’t make fortunes in
the sweet by and bye.
## # #
Mr. Locko Richardson, Shakespearian re-
citer and sassiety pet, gave a matinbe show at
Melbourne Bijou on Saturday. By special request
of the perfesh, Mr. Richardson read “ A Christ-
mas Carol,” and fetched ’em—aye, even as the
faithful shepherd s dawg fetched home the sheep
to fold. Put the average hactor into plain clothes,
deny him scenic accessories, and stick him on a
platform to play a comedy all by his own self, and
where would be be 1 If the audience brought
fire-arms he would probably be still and cold in
death before 20 minutes were up. There is, per-
haps, an occasional tendency to preachiness in
Richardson’s delivery, but his rendering of the
Carol, and 20 other bits, is more moving than
the best sermon of the smartest parson that ever
took up a collection. He is bright, genial,
humorous, tiagic, and several other things. His
memory is long as a lawyer’s bill, and broad as a
smoking-room anecdote. He is better than a
ballet in the limelight.
** * *
“ The Magistrate ” re-opened proceedings
at Melbourne Princess’s on Saturday last. Of the
company which introduced Pinero's comedy to
Australian notice at the Bijou only Titheradge
and Hans Phillips are available this journey, but
things go briskly enough on the whole. Mounting
is up to usual high standard at this house, and the
elegant refreshment arrangements have as strong
a claim upon public sj mpathy as ever.
** * *
Frank Clark enjoyed the sweet satisfac-
tion of being fined 40s. for permitting over-
crowding at the Victoria Hall, Melbourne.
Nothiog but our profound respect for the police
prevents us from hinting that these prosecutions
are arranged for advertising purposes.
#* # #
A six days’ bicycle tournament at Mel-
bourne Exhibition brought a lot of gate-money to
somebody and provided a good week’s work for
Clarke, who put in 780 miles for a first prize of
£lOO. Rolfe appeared to stand a great show
until he made a vain protest and retired in a
temper. Wood suffesed from one of the numerous
spills on the first night and remained hors de
combat until his presenoe became desirable to
help along the exchequer. On Saturday he was
advertised to attempt 100 miles in six hours 15
minutes foranallegedbetof £5O with VV. G. George.
The bait took, and 10,000 people rolled up to see
the champion retire when half through with his
job Professional wheelmen are evidently doing
well just now. The eight pounds which Clarke
lost during the contest are nothing when we take
ini o consideration the net amount he gained all
round.
## # *
New pitfalls are opening every day to
swallow up the unhappy journalist. London
Tit-Bits has just been let in for £lOO and costs
for praising a dramatic advance-agent's stomach.
The plaintiff was an able-bodied person named
Dolby, whom Charles Dickens, it was asserted,
engaged during his American tour to do his
superfluous eating and drinking. He had a fine,
well-seasoned, British ironclad interior, but he
returned a complete wreck owing to incessant
gorging and cocktailing in his capacity as
Dickens’ deputy diner-out. These few simple
alleged facts, as already mentioned, cost £lOO,
and, with this warning in view, whenever a paper
alludes to a dramatic agent in future, it will be
as well to state that the unhappy man hasn’t
tasted food for at least two days.
** # #
In the tram. Actor, with good memory
for faces and bad memory for names, begins
talking to smooth-faced man, who has just
dropped into the teat beside him. Acter recol-
lects the countenance, but can’t “ place ” the
man. “ How is the wife?” he asks. “Very
well, thanks,” responds the clean-shaved
stranger. “ And the children ? ” “Flourishing,
sir, flourishing.” “ And where are you playing
this week?” “Playing—l don’t play, sir; I
preach. lam still located at the same old
church.”
Mr. James D. Gray.
Mr. James D. Gray, editor of the Grafton
(N.S.W.) Argus, is a native of Elgin, Scotland,
a country which seems to be the birthplace of a
very large proportion of Australian journalists.
He was born in 1828, and emigrated to Sydney at
the age of 20. On arriving he joined the “ com'
panionship” of the S.M. Herald (then only 12
strong), and remained in that office for the long
period of 25 years. In 1875 he removed to Graf-
ton, and in that peaceful city on the Clarence he
has settled down, though not to rest, for the
journalist generally dies in harness. The Grafton
Argus, under his management, has become a
journal of consideiable importance, and unless the
prophesies of the black man are iealised and the
town, with all its belongings, is ultimately swept
away in some “ big pfeller flood,” there is a pros-
perous career before it. Mr. Gray is now 60 y ears
of age. Any discrepancy between that oircumstance
and the aspect of his photograph he ascribes to the
fact that during his colonial career of 40 years he
has never been laid up for a single day through
accident or sickness.
Mr. S WySmith.
Mr. S. W. Smith, a prominent member of the
well-known and widely-respected Smith family,
and editor of the Riverine Herald, Kohuca
(Vic.), was born in London in 1850, and arrived in
Australia at the age of six years. Three years
after his arrival he was towed off by his parents
to Inglewood, about the last of the great Victorian
rashes, at which there were then camped some
30,000 or 40,000 men all occupied in digging,
washing, drinking, cursing, gambling, and dying
fast in the good old Victorian fashion of those
red-shirt days. Here he attended school in a
canvas tent for two years, and at the age of 12
started to make his own way in the world. He
was apprenticed in the office of the Inglewood
Sentinel, and a little later t he death of his father
left him the sole support of a family of four. In a
few years more he became assistant editor of the
Inglewood Advertiser. In 1875, he was ap-
pointed travelling reporter for the Bendigo
Advertiser, and by his efforts speedily made
that journal one of the chief authorities on rail-
way, agricultural, and water conservation matters
in the colony. In 1883 he became editor of the
Bendigo Independent, and in 1886 he took
charge of the Riverine Herald, a very progres-
sive and prosperous paper. Mr. Smith’s portrait
is attached—the portrait of a live man who means
to do something in this world.


PEPPER
Salt
Captain Mulholland, Drillmaster-in-Chiof
to the N.S.W. Public schools, says in his last
report;—“l find that the whole of the boys,
girls, and infants are well set-up, straight, and
well-formed, active, steady, and bright ” This
sounds well for the coming Australian, but
doesn’t the gallant Captain’s report give away the
colony rather cheaply to Bismarck, Boulanger,
Unitee-Ka-Ka, the Esquimaux leader, Wah-Wah-
Tepulta, Chief of the Digger Indians, the Mahdi,
and other foreign enemies ? If any of these mean
fight they will certainly attack N.S.W. now,
instead of waiting until the “ well set-up, straight
and active” youngsters have grown to be the race
of giants that is predicted. However, it is satis-
factory to know that the infants are “ steady.”
Nothing more deplorable could be imagined than
the sight of a two-year-old Australian hanging on
to a verandah-post and calling out to mamma to
“come down at wonsh (hie) an' hold those
bloomin' shteps shteady till I walksh on ’em,” or
the same individual awakening at o a.m. as
thirsty as Tantalus, and fumbling round the bed
as he mutters, “Now, wheresh th’debbil did I
put that bleshed feedin'-bottle away to ?"
The champion wife lives at Melbourne.
Giving evidence in an assault case, this noble
creature stated that her husband “ sometimes
gave her a smaok, but she brought this on her-
self.” Kindly pas 3 the sackbut, harp, psaltery,
dulcimer, and all kinds of music
A London clergyman, who 'resides at the
gruesome end of the metropolis, has come to the
conclusion that he must do something for the
hungy multitude, and he has been and gone and
done it. The modus operandi is strikingly
simple. The lady members of his flock start out
on certain days, and geueg into all the poorest
houses they can And, ask the head of the family
if he is employed. He says., unanimously, that
he is not. Then he is invited to attend a meeting
at the chapel at 10 o’elock p.m,, and in the
desperate hope that some victuals are hangirig on
to the job he generally goes. Punctually to time
a live cadaver grinds out an organ-obligato, and
then the parson rises and informs the congrega-
tion that they are slithering down into endless
fire. By 11 o’clock the working man is generally
asleep, if the cold and the hardness of the seats
will allow him such a recreation. About la. m.
or so he awakes again and finds that, according
to the parson’s showing, he is still slithering. At
2 a.m. a cup of tea is served round, and the par-
son has the cheek to ask a blessing on the
thin, bay-horse-coloured beverage Then come
three hours more of cheerful facts about the
old slaughtering Israelites, and finally at 5 a.m.
each man gets an order for a bag of coal and is
sent off. If ho caves in before five he is told that
he is going to Sheol and he gets no coal.
* • »
This incident is said to have occurred in
the Manning River district, and if it did not
really take place, then there must be a beautifully
choioe liar banging about that region. A young
man was out of a billet, and applied to a former
employer for a letter of recommendation. That
gentleman replied with a kindly smile, “ Cer-
tainly, my boy,” and, seizing a sheet of paper, he
covered it, after half-an-hour’s hard labour, with
ten different kinds of dirt, seven huge blots, and
a quart of what looked like bees in fits, and signed
it with a cockroach fighting a grasshopper. He
looked so proud of the production that his late
employee did not care to tell him how utterly
useless it was, so he took it in silence and applied
to all his friends in succession to getit deciphered.
But they all gave it up, and he carried it to the
office of the local newspaper and tried it on the
compositors with a similar result. Finally, he
rushed down to the oiled and hair-parted-in-the-
middle young man who ran the chemist's shop
and asked him what in the whole colony the
thing meant, and that official smiled a pitying
smile, and seizing a bottle slopped round with
half-a-dozen different-coloured fluids, and cork-
ing up the consequences, charged 2s. and told
him it would do his cough a lot of good. Then it
dawned on the young man that the document
was one which might be made generally useful
and he put a stamp on it and lodged it at the
bank for collection. If this scheme proves a
failure he thinks of treating it next as a written
promise by the old man to marry his cross-eyed
sister, and he calculates there will be enough
damages to keep the family going till trade
revives.
Now sing we of a model wife,
A helpmate staunoh and true,
Who understands her part in life
As few among ’em do ;
For when the old man gives her fits,
This gentle, patient elf
Just drops her eyelids and admits
She brought it on herself.
Should hubby land her with a cha'r—
Correct her with a broom
Conduct her by her golden hair
All round the dining-room—
Or pelt her in his winning way,
With glasses, pans, and delf,
This lady fair would merely say
She brought it on herself.
She wouldn’t mind a copper-stick ;
The faithful, smiling soul
Would never dodge the angry brick —
But like it, on the whole ;
And if, perchance, a sudden smack
Laid Mary on the shelf,
She’d fold her hands and cry, “ Alack ! ”
I brought it on myself.”
Why dread the matrimonial noose ?
Sure married life is bliss—
No selfish, single man could choose
A better wife than this ;
Possessed of such a treasure he
Might scorn all other pelf ;
Let’s honour her with “ three time three”—
She brought it on herself.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Tennyson—poor man, he is now 76 is
known to be struggling with aJubilee grovel.
The statement that Mr. Harold Stephen
is going; to Bombala to edit a newspaper in in-
correct.
It is just now very unsafe indeed to ask
Hon. John Lucas, M.L C., “Where is thot two-
and-ninepenny dog ?”
The names of Smith, Smythe, and
9m it herd cropped up in a Melbourne Count y
Court case last week.
The second son of Lord Salisbury is to be
ordained. His curacy has been already ordained
by the Lord, his father.
“ Fools and their money are soon parted ”
is an old adage which makes Queen Victoria out
wiser than Solomon by about £11,000,000.
It is not generally known that James
Smith, of The Arises, is the grandfather of a little
Hebrew, who has been received into the tribes
with all due ceremonies.
Lady Florence Dixie has been arousing
the Scotch to agitate for Home Rule. Her lady-
HE WAS WILLING TO WORK.
HE: “IF YOU'LL GIVE ME SOME DINNER, I’LL SAW WOOD FOR YOU."
SHE: “I DARE SAY YOU KNOW WELL ENOUGH THAT WE ONLY BURN GAS."
HE: “WELL GIMME A FEED, AND I'LL TURN ON THE GAS FOR YOU.”
ship’a sphere in life has not yet been defined, but
she might be accommodated at Bedlam.
A certain swagger individual, who ought
to have left Melbourne, but hasn’t, was at ths
theatre last week with a fellow who looked sus-
piciously like a bailiff in possession of him.
Princess Lihe-lihe, sister of the King of
Honolulu, has starved herself to death on account
of the disastrous eruptions of Mount Mauna Loa.
The European Royal Princesses know a trick
worth two of that.
Miss Nancy Wilkinson, M.L. A., of
N.S.W., is to the fore with a petition in favour of
opening Parliament with prayer. Why not open
it with free drinks, an inquest, a dog-fight, and a
catch-as-catch-can curse all round !
On dit that the late Aaron Waxman, the
Melbourne usurer, will “ cut up ” for £300,000 in-
stead of £161,000 as at first reported. As pro
bate duty was paid only on the latter amount the
Government are looking into the matter.
“ Now, observe him doomed for the rest
of his days to carry about with him the odium of
a ludicrous and contemptible nickname calling
forth the derision of even the boys on the street.”
—David Buchanan on Wisdom’s Knighthood.
A Queensland editor has viewed a photo,
of a lately-arrived Melbourne ecclesiastic, and
remarks that he finds “great evidences of sen-
suality in the lower portions of the face.”
Wherever else did he suppose he would find
them l
Poor “Tommy” Cosgrove, the horse-
auctioneer, of Elizabeth-street, Sydney, has filed
his little schedule to the tune of £2500 14s. lOd. ;
assets, £57. Tommy’s big white gelding is one of
the Sydney sights. We wonder if he will go with
the property ?
“ Beecher was not a thinker at all; he
was a worker. His place was with the Marthas,
not with the Marys,” says Mr. Francis W. L
Adams in the Sydney D.T. And yet the poor old
man's enemies used to say that his place was with
the Marthas and the Marys, too.
Julian Thomas, (“ The Vagabond ”) v.
Wilson and Mackinnon, £lO,OOO damages, is one
of the last cases in the Victorian Supreme Court
A strong bar is engaged. Pending the hearing
Julian is paying for his board and whisky, and
subsidising lawyers by writing for the Agio.
Professor Ferdmaud von Arlt, the cele-
brated oculist, died recently at Vienna, aged 7-5
The Sydney D.T. briefly states that he broke one
of his arms and afterwards underwent several
serious operations in the comae of which botli his
legs were taken off. This seems rather a violent
kind of dodge for curing a man with a broken
aim.
Lord Hervey Phipps (son of the Marquis
of Normanby, late Governor of Victoria), whose
death was announced the other day by cable, was
the ne’er-do-well of the family, and led a most
tempestuous life while in Austra’ia fce i . eaid even
to have figured in the back-blocks as a surveyor’s
cook.
As the date of the Jubilee draws near,
Queen Victoria, it is alleged, “ shows less and lees
disposition to join personally in the rejoicings.”
As the “ rejoicings ’ so far eeem principally to
consist of making money donations, we are not
surprised that Victoria prefers to remain bathed
in grief.
Curious coincidence ! Upon the day—the
Victorian Eight, Hours’ Anniversary—on wh ch
first appeared in the columns of The Agio an
article by that eminent journalist “ The Vaga
bond,” The Argus had a long account of the lov-
ing feeliog entertained by the employees of that
paper for Mr. L. Mackinnon, jun.
Twenty years ago Mr. John Hastio, of
Camperdown (Vic.) left 40144,000 to be divided be
t ween certain English and Presbjterianchurchesof
Victoria and Melbourne University. But (says a
Melbourne paper) “ the conditions of (he will are
of such a nature that it is likely it will be many
years before the money becomes available.” Who
is handling the dollars meanwhile ?
The Earl of Aberdeen told Cardinal
Moian that he claimed St. Patrick as a Scotch-
man. Wo hear that the Marist priests of Char-
lotte Place, Sydney, set up his image in tbeir
church a 3 that of a Frenchman. The Karl should
not have gone among without having it out with
Father Piquet in the back yard of St. Mary’s.
“ The Vagabond ” has two actions going
on. One is against the Melbourne Wesleyan
paper for libe 1 ; the other is against the proprie-
tors of the Argus for an alleged libel contained in
a telegram seat to their London agent about him
during his absence from Victoria as Exhibition
correspondent. Purves will appear for the
Argus, and it will be worth millions to hear him
skirmish with the Yag.
After gushing over that charming and
affable agent of Imperialism in Victoria, Lady
Loch, Melbourne Punch the resurrected
corpse of the Victorian journalistic shadow which
borrowed the nsme of this taper—concludes with
calling the accomplished lady Her Excellency!
Comment is unnecessary, but—shade of Great
Grovel '—can flummery and doting sycophancy
go one hotter ? This wipes out with one long
arm-sweep Lord Rosslyn and the Mayor of Hull
and every other genuflecting toady upon British
earth.
The other day, at a reception given to the
Earl of Aberdeen, Professor Anderson-Stuart, of
Sydney University, acted as spokesman of t ho
N.S.W. Highland Society. The local D T., in ite
report, spelt the Professor’s name “ Stewart.”
V\ e wonder how he liked it ? Years ago, when a
Mr. Venables was secretary of the Victorian
Education Department, he incautiously made a
similar error in addressing one Stuart, member of
a School Board, who thereupon wrote back to
the offending Secretary an insulting letter ad-
dressed to Mr. “ Vegetables.”
The only part of the Sydney Daily Tele-
graph which is always worth reading is it 3
Political Notes,” and it is an open secret that
this airy column is the product of Mr. T. C.
Courtney s pen. Although we have no sympathy
with hi 3 political creed, we are quite ready to
admit the smartness, pare graphic brilliancy, and
sinewy strength of style which characterise the
matter referred to. Thomas is of Irish extraction,
and doesn't he like to chew up bis countrymen !
How many square meals has he had, for
off the political corse of the devoted Mr. Dan
O'Connor !
We conclude that the Campbelltown and
Picton Penny Post can’t have anything much
beyond a table and two gin-cases for the bailiff t
It vy on, seeing that it ventures to talk thus of a
gentleman who not long since was ennobled in
(say) Kamschatka :—“ The news that he has been
knighted will shock every sober man in the
colony. We have known him for a lifetime as
only a boozing bully. There is nothing in him
except whisky. The leading public men are a
ruin lot—particularly rum. The majority of them
aie proven thieves and drunkard?.” After read-
ing this item we can eay truthfully that our
respect for the law and the prophets is fled.
Says the Akgus :
"The soeciat Jubilee offering of the women of the Cape of
G;od Hot e possessed the merit of originaliiy. They pro
posed to prtsent Her Majesty with a train c f ostrich feather
in which to appear at Jourfc The queen expressed a pre
f srence for Cape diamonde. It was, however, too late.”
Of course. Vic. knows that diamonds fetch nior
than feathers any day. It’s evident that He
Majesty thinks more of the “ intrinsic worth ” o
an offeri- g Ilian of the “ love that gave it birth,
as valentines say.
The Marquis of Salisbury’s eldest son,
Viscount Cranbourne, is not earning golden
opinions in England, but he is, nevertheless, fas i
ririeg to prominence in the House of Commons
His strong point is his voice, which is loud ant
creaky, and when anybody is speakiDg who doesn’,
think exactly as he does he dodges around in dnrl:
corners crowing and yelpirg. His friend Chaplin
is not so noisy, but he has one joke which he fires
off whenever Sa'isbnry’s pup gives the signal
This consists in focussing a speaker with his eye
glass, and exclaiming in accents of trembling sur
prise : “ Who is the animal?" This game is
generally a great success, but on one occasion re-
cently the joke mbsed lire. The pair fastened on
Mr. Storey, and jest as they were getting along
famously that gentleman fixed the Viscount with
his glittering eye, and inquired with an air of
fatherly interest: “ Has that pup not keen put to
bed yet ?’’
The “party by the name of Johnson,”
Government Analytical Chemist of Victoria, who
hss just died, gave ev.dence in a greater number
of criminal cases than perhaps any other man of
his time He likewise analysed, drank, and re-
ported upon more liquors than any other man on
two legs-cr one. He used to tell in his certifi-
cates how he “duly brewed" and drunk so many
tumblers rf the stuff uider notice, and that in
the morning he felt no hot coppers, or any other
inconvenience. Johnson always gave straight
evidence in court. When other witnesses wete
ordered out William was allowed to remain. His
fairness and conscientiousness were never doubted
by any one. lie testified in criminal prosecutions
agiinst the low r ruck in the Law Courts, and
compounded the prescriptions of fashionable
dne’ors for the aristocracy at St. Kilda, where he
kept a swagger dispensary such as Itomeo would
never have dealt at. Hill Johnson deserves an
epitaph as much as Ben or Sam Pen’s was “ O
rare Hen Johnson.” Let the chemist’s be—“ O
fair Bill Johnson.”
Mr. J. Summers, the Melbourne musi-
cian, has had conferred upon him by Oxford Uni-
versity the degree of Bachelor of Music. This is
what the telegrams eay. It looks well, too. It
suggests that the great University has suddenly
awakened to the enormous genius of J. S., whose
fame lias reached from Melbourne to Oxford.
Now, the fact is that “Joe” Summers has lived
the best part of his natural life in the Victorian
capita], and has always sported the mysterious
“ Mus. Bac. Oxon.” after his name. A few years
ago, however, an impertinent person wrote to
Oxford and asked if a party by the name of Sum-
mers had taken the degree of Bachelor of Music
there. The reply was in the negative.
Then there was a row in the Melbourne
papers, and the gentle Summers explained that he
had passed the exam, for Mus. Bac. at Oxford,
though he had never gone through the empty form
of.taking the degree. All Summers’ enemies were
triumphant—and who ever knew a musician to be
without a friend ready to put the rope round his
neck if politely requested? But now Joe
his got his degree from Oxford and made him-
self even with bis anxious and inquiring friends.
Dr. Blair, of Melbourne, who died the
other day, is nearly the last of the distinguished
crowd who figoied a few years ago in the Vic-
tor an capital in the cause cclebre of Clar.-on r.
Blair. Clarson and his wife sued Blair in the
Supreme Court for certain assaults which Mr?.
Clar on said Blair committed upon hi r some
years before. Barty was the judge, Billing was
for the plaintiffs aid Hick Ireland for the defen.
dants. The speeches on both sides were gems.
Ireland's “Billingsgate” was never heard to
better advantage than in slanging Mrs. Clarson.
Blair gained the day, and he and Dick drove
round town that afternoon in a triumphal drag.
Heavens 1 how much liquor both men must have
put away that festive day ! Instead of driving
down Collins-s treet, the plaintiffs packed their
portmanteaux and left Victoria in disgust. Since
that noted law case Parry has died Dr. Brown-
less said he went b:cause Ned Kelly told him
they would shortly meet in the other world.
Prophetic Ned ! Billing, Q.C., is dead He died
of being made a county court judge instead of a
Supreme Court sweil. Dick is dead. As Phil.
Day says, he “died of several things ” And now
the defendant has passed in his checks. So has
the foreman of the jury, Keogh, the big chemist
of Flinders- Lane.
That great legal light, Judge Pope Cooper,,
of Queensland, is fast becoming unbearable. For
sever -1 years he has been quarrelling with the
authorities about hotel-bills, liquors, travelling
expenses, &c , and at last he seems to have con-
cluded that he must draw attention to his case
by breaking something. He went on circuit a
few weeks ago in his usual lordly way and
“blewed” all the government allowance by the
time he reached Townsville-and then he struck.
He wouldn t hang anybody unless the Treasurer
rushed up some more money, and he intimated in
effect that unless these funds came pretty quickly
he would release every assassin, burglar, dog-
stealer, perjurer, and forger without a trial, and
shut up the Court. Then he solemnly bore his
shattered frame to the pub. and waited results,
while Virgil Power sent one frenzied message
after another to the Treasurer, until Mr. Dickson
began to fancy that Judge Cooper had painted a
blue stripe down each leg, and was cleaning out
the town with a boomerang. Of course there was
no other resource than to send the money, but in
forwarding it the worried Dickson ventured to
mention that the Judge's conduct was “ undigni
fled, ’ and when Cooper again put on his skunk-
skin robe and mounted the bench he alluded
briefly to this statement and pointed out that lie
didn't care a rap whether the Treasurer considered
him dignified cr not. The Brisbane Courier has
sine? bien saying things about the Judge, and
now there is a libel-action ahead.
Archbishop Carr, the new Melbourne
R.C. prelate, was the death of Archbishop


Goold. Dr. Carr, however, didn't mean it. A
boadiutorship was a thing James Alipius could
never swallow unless under compulsion. When
Cardinal Moran first came to Australia, he,
after looking round, said that Dr. Goold’s
gout and rheumatism prevented that pre-
late from doing as much worx as he ought, so
Patrick Francis recommended Rome to appoint a
helpmate to J. A. I his advice was endorsed by
P. A. C. O’Farreil, Esq., gentleman-attorney.
J. A. then said that if he was to have a coadjutor
it mu« r be Dean Donnghy,- a man who didn c
suffer from either gout or rheumatism, but w’as
very bad with lung-disea'e. FUher Donaghy
was appointed, and then Dr. Go„ld died, but it
was the coadjutorship that killed him. Dean
Donaghy was congratulated by his friends, but
Patrick Francis succeeded in having his friend
Carr appointed to Melbourne. And so the
triuoiphal Carr is now coming to tho Victorian
capital- James Alipius never forgave that little
business to P. F. Moran. When Patrick returned
with the red hat. and went down to Brighton to
see James, the red hat had the very effect upon
Dr. G. that it might have had upon a bull—not one
of the Pope’s. His Grace snubbed the apos
tolic delegate, and- the Bishop of Adelaide ex-
pressed his horror at the Pope’s representative
being sat upon by a colonial bishop. Moral—Let
the cobbler stick to his last and never put his
finger in other people’s pie. N.B.—This is mixed
metaphor.
POLTICAL
POINTS
The introduction of the Tory Coercion
Bill will soon he followed by the introduction of
another Bill—Bill Gladstone.
“ The two strongest influences at election
times are money and sectarianism.” — Pearl of
wisdom from the Lithgow Mercury.
Mr. Justice Kay recently decided that a
newspaper ennnot libel the dead. We are glad.
We are contemplating fresh attacks on the
N.S.W. Freetrade League.— Globe.
The O’Sullivan, M.P., politely declares
that ‘‘ if there is any trutli at all in the theory of
incarnation, and the Devil really does walk N.S.
Wales, he does so in the person of Sir Henry
Parkes.”
“ When “ Wales ” sent to inquire at the
Russian Embassy, London, about the latest
attempt to blow up the Czar, his messenger was
informed that “nothing unusual had happened
at St. Petersburg. ”
This is said to have been the address made
by a candidate in the recent South Australian
elections: “Gentlemen, what you want is pay-
ment of members, the totalisator, and me for
your member ; I m your Moses.” That was all.
At a Protection meeting at Leicester
(Eng.), the Duke of Rutland told the people that
cheap bread was of no U3e if they hadn’t the money
to buy it, and that the remedy for Ireland’s
grievances was Protection to her agriculture and
industries.
Great distress exists among the iron-
moulders of Sydney, in consequence of the stag-
nation of local industry consequent on the un-
restricted importation of German and English
goods. Some of the men have had only from six
to nine weeks’ work during the last nine months.
The Queen went on March 24 to lay the
foundation-stone of the new Assize Courts at Bir-
mingham. Birmingham now returns one Conser-
vative —Henry Matthews, Home Secretary in the
Salisbury Government—and it is supposed that
the object of the visit was to encourage the
growth of Brummagem Toryism.
Mr. Sutherland, Minister of Works in the
honest Freetrade Government of N.S.W., says
that no indent for manufac.ured goods shall be
sent out of the colony with his name attached to
it. Sydney D.T. is badly afflicted with Freetrade
hysteria at the prospect of useful work being
found for some of the unemployed artisans.
The Australasian, writing about “ Buf-
falo Bill's" show in London, describes him as
“ the Hon W. F. Gody, a member of the United
States Parliament I ” Billy Cody was for a short
time a member of the Nebraska Legislature, and
thence assumed the Brevet title of Honorable.
But great Scotti “The United States Parlia-
ment ! ”
Apropos of the protest made against the
Irish Coercion Bill by 3500 Nonconformist Minis-
ters. the Marquis of Salisbury calmly says that
“ all working men would he Conservatives if the
Nonconformist ministers would leave them alone.”
We wonder what the workiDg-men would be if
the State-nursed Anglican parsons would “let
them alone ?”
Two Irishmen opened a ten minutes’ de-
bate upon the merits of Home Rule at Charlton
(Vic.), the oilier day. When the debate closed
the dissentient was taken away to the nearest
hospital, and persuaded to make his will. The
other man is doing nicely, and expects to be about
again in a day or two, but the prison authorities
don’t think so.
Thomas Walker, M.P., has been accused
of “disloyalty to the hempire,” because he re-
minded the members of the N.S.W. Assembly of
certain discreditable proceedings connected with
the early occupation of India by England. Parkes
seems to be oblivious of the fact that he touches a
dangerous subject when he refers to the “ hem-
pire ” and its 'istory.
“ Live long or die young, I would
rather die now than, like the gentleman op-
posite, change my politics, and simultaneously
with' the change, receive au office worth 3000 dols,
a year, and then have to erect a lightning-rod
over my house to protect a guilty conscience from
an offended God.” —President Lincoln, quoted for
the benefit of Frawncis Abigail.
Among the Supplementary Estimates of
the Tory Government this year is an item of £l5O
for burning down the houses of defaulting Irish
tenants at Glenbeigb. As things are man-
aged now in Ireland it costs £l5O to destroy
£5O worth of property, and then there is an after
outlay of about £2od a year to support the former
occupants in the poorhouse, while 1000 more
tenants stop payment by way of expressing their
feelings in the matter.
The Argus endeavours to deduce from the
'act that many thousands of persons a.tended the
Melbourne Eight Hours’ procession a disproof of
the siatements made as to the depression in
Victoria. A parallel case: the Argus is still
read every day by several persons. Therefore,
everybody in Victoria is permanently on the staff
of the Argus, drawing a good salary.
More retrenchment ! There are two
lines of tramways running to the Lachlan Swamp
near Moore Park, and yet, when the N.S.W.
Ministerial party proposed to visit the spot on
Saturday week, nothing les3 than cabs, at the ex-
Dense of the State, was good enough to carry
them. School-children may freeze to death, but
the honest Government must have its cabs.
This is what Lord Lymington, who was in
Australia a little while ago on his wedding tiip,
says on the Irish quei tion :
“Half measures, pettifogging measures—not the suspen-
sion, but the prostitution, of constitutional forms, suen as
jury packint; a policy not of high-minded and, if you like it,
high-handed, English statesmen, but of fumbling lawyers
and confused officials—will disgust English gentlemen and
the English public."
Nothing liberalises a man so much as a trip to
Australia.
“Nothing, except,fperhaps, a rise in Scotch
pies, could possibly check the enterprise of the
Sydney E. News. Its leading sensation is*now
to chronicle in special pars, what happened “ a
year ago to day.” When til's grows stale, and
fails to “give pleasure to all,” Alfred may break
out in prophecy, and inform his cultured consti-
tuents what will happen a year ago to-morrow.
But he mustn’t refer to the political policy of the
E. News.
The Paddington Poet, Allen, M.P., is
slow at recognising a compliment. He interjected
“ Bah !’’when the freethought lecturer was ad-
dressing the N.S.W. Assembly, the other night,
and Walker retorted : “ Just such an interjection
as I expected considering the quality of the hon.
member’s wool.” Allen was indignant but un-
necessarily so, as at the ordinary value his wool
ought to be worth about 53., and a poet who can
boast of such a worldly possession as that ought
to be proud of it.
Last week the Sydney Daily Telegraph
published a leading article in which it attacked
the Parkes Government roost furiously. A series
of charges of alleged jobbery were levelled at the
Government, and the article woue d up with the
significant remark, “ This is a pretty fair record
for four months of hone-t Government!" On the
same day the Minister for Works consummated
the worst job with which he can be charged—
IN THE PARK.
“WHY DO YOU LIE THERE ALL DAY WITH YOUR HANDS IN YOUR POCKETS?”
“BECAUSE I NEVER WAS POLITICIAN ENOUGH TO KNOW HOW TO PUT THEM IN
ANYBODY ELSE’S POCKETS.”
fchat of running a morning mail-train for the sole
convenience and benefit of the proprietors of the
Sydney morning papers. This quite satisfied the
editorial conscience of the D. T., as ever since it
has been silent on the subject of the jobbery of
the Government.
The population of Victoria is equal to
11*75 per square mile, while that of N.S W. is
only 3*33. The proportionate area of land on
which a wallaby would starve is quite as great in
Victoria as it is in N.S.W., and the latter colony
has mineral resources which, if properly de-
veloped, would leave Victoria’s gold-mining in-
dustry nowhere. Are not these solid facts worth
more than a shipload of 600-paged volumes of
Parkesian platitudes as testimony of the compara-
tive liberality of the land and mining laws of the
smaller colony, and, above all, of the efficacy of
Protection as a means of giving a young country
a fair start ?
Mudgee’s brand-new member. Mr. W. C.
Wall, has already done the State some service.
For years past the vituperative vocabulary of
N.S.W. Parliamentary slangwhangers has been
restricted to such refined but rather worn out
phrases as “howling idiots,” “fish-fag,” “blather-
ing booby,” “crimps, blacklegs, and swindiers,”
“hoary-headed old politician,” “ brainless ass,”
“drunkard,” “forger,” “liar,” “d d liar,”
and the like, and the pleasure which those elegant
epithets once gave to all has been considerably
discounted of late by the constant changes rung
upon them. A few nights ago, however, Mr.
Wall stepped up to the rescue and spoke on the
political humbugs who “ travel” on the “ wurru-
kun mahn ” —“the ‘ ululating idiots ’ whom an
over-indulgent Providence has rescued from their
legitimate occupation of knife-grinding.” Mr.
Abigail, on behalf of his lamented friend, Dr.
Samuel Johnson, thanked the man from Mudgee
for the words, which were at once registered in
the book of Parliamentary etiquette.
“ In the Name of the Queen !”
Editor Bulletin. Sir,—l trust you will have
space for the following. If you have not, I know
no other journal that has I send this letter to
you simply because The Bulletin is the only
consistently democratic paper in Australia I know
of. You nave doubtless noted in the Sydney daily
press paragraphs to the effect that I ady Caring-
ton—with tie assistance of the Mayoress, Lady
Darley, Miss Stephen, &c. —has prepared
an address to be signed by “ the_ women of New
South Wales,” to be iresented as a Jubilee memo-
rial to Queen Victoria. It is further intended to
combine “loyalty ’ and philanthropy in an effort
to establish a “ Woman’s Jubilee Fund, ’ the
money collected for such purpose being placed in
the hands of trustees, who will be empowered to
employ pen tions thereof for the relief of urgent
esses amongst destitute women and chi’dren, in
the Queen's name! In Victoria, t list affable and
accomplished agent of Imperialism, Lady Loch, is
endeavouring to inaugurate a woman's movement
to commemorate the Queen’s fifty years of nega
tive existence, which movement is to take the
form of a “ Queen's Fund ” dedicated to the sup-
port of the women and children of those killed or
disabbd by accidents and otherwise, and for their
relief in cases of distress for wh’oh no suitab’e or
adequate provision cxipts. The Mayor of Mel-
bourne has been written to, and he has promised
to assist in the movement and to convene a
meetiog of ladies at an early date to carry
out Lady Locn's suggestion. Lady Loch has
written also to the wives of 'he different
colonial Governors asking for their co operation
in organisinga similar fund in connection with tbeir
respective colonics. Now, sir, I protest against
this adroit gubernatorial and “ upper "-class
scheme, whica is directly calculated to divert the
public attention now given to the sufferers by the
recent Bulii colliery disaster into abenevolent politi-
cal agency for “ educating ” the minds of the lower
order -, and fostering the belief that Philanthropy
and Imperialism are convertible terms. And I
ask you, as the editor of the only avowedly
Republican journal in Australia, to oppore a
movement which gives to charity an official
aspect, and which would make use of an universal
human sentiment to further political ends. It is
the Primrose League business all over again ! It
is a matter of notoriety that the lady members—
the Dames—of this factional organisation doled
out soup and allotted blankets with the object of
convincing the peasant vote r of Great Britain that
Benevolence and Toryism were merely the same
word masquerading in different pleasant dis-
guises—and the pseudo-charities of the Dames of
ihe Primrose League resulted in the return to
office of the incompetent Salisbury and his Con-
servative following. A like result in reference to
Imperial Federation is the object of the present
“little game I” It is very evidently a bold
“move” against the growing Republicanism of
the colonies, whose growth in a Democratic direc-
tion it is intended to stop. And what prescriptive
right, I ask, has that half a-century monument of
Thrift —not to say Avarice —the Queen, to be the
glorified regal medium of private or distinctively
Australian charity ? And why this present con-
sideration for the destitute widows and children
of those who have lost their lives or their limbs in
making wealth for the C M.G.’d capitalist who
swaggers to the receptions at Government House,
and who grovels in the shadow cast by guberna-
torial grandeur? Have there been no destitute
widows in the past, or have they been suffering in
secret so long, merely to add another spray—of a
charitable species this time —to the tinsel wreath
with which it is proposed to grace the
placid and unfurrowed brow of England’s “ care-
ful” Queen ? Surely widows and orphans have
been sufficiently plentiful in times gone by with-
out waiting for a special Jubilee supply upon
whom to bestow an Imperial brand of vice-regal
charity ! Why should all our floating benevolence
be run into the cold queenly fount and be there
frozen into proverbial charitable frigidity and re-
tailed to suffering woman in the shape of chunks
of Imperial ice stamped with the grovelling
legend “ Jubilee ?” Have we no other channel
for our charity ? ” Is the Koyal road the only
one ? How about the Bulii Fund —and, talking
of Bulii, I am reminded that after all Lady Loch
and Company have only taken a hint from your
paper, A week or two ago a cartoon was pub-
lished in The Bulletin putting the Jubilee busi-
ness in an altogether new and suggestive light.
The question was therein directly ask«d of the
Au3t? a ian people: “On which widow will you
bestow your charity—the Prince Consort’s or the
dead Bulii miner’s ? ” and tbe leaders of colonial
“ eassiety ” have simply endeavoured to benefit
both by combining Jubilee and charity. But
good cannot be done by the rule of three, and
monuments were never built by butterfließ. The
Bulii Fund must be made solid and kept straight
l —not handled in the name of a selfish and distant
stranger with whom we have not a single com-
mon sympathy—by the Caringtons, or the
Locus, or the Stephenses, or anybody else who
has a political or a social or an Imperial axe to
gnnd. Besides, the people of Australia should
recollect that if they subscribe to the Bulii Fund,
the Bulii sufferers will benefit by tbeir donation!
but if they subscribe to this fashionable
Widows’ Fund,” they virtually give up
all control of their money to the judgment of
people who will take all sorts of care not to re
lieve the wrong parties. In short, the man or
woman who give 3 to the ‘ Bulii Fund” is sure
that all the destitute widows of the victims will
share in the total amount subscribed, but if he
should give to the “ Jubilee Widows’ Fund-
Heaven save the mark: Jubilee widow /-he sur-
renders all control to somebody else, and he does
not know who will lenefit by his assistance, or
who will be passed over. We may be sure that
one of the first qualifications of an applicant for
aid to the “ Widow’ ” institution, would be the be-
lief contained in the lines :
” Oh, let us love our occupations,
Bless the Queen and her relations,
Live upon our daily rations.
And always know our proper stations.”
And of course the new charity will not come into
operation uniil the proper hour and minute. The
widow may starve, and be hanged to her if she
cannot stay her famished stomach till the cele-
bration dale. And if it is so desirable that the
Queen’s half-century picnic should be graced with its
train of starve ings, and widows left unprovided
for by those who have perished in accidents, and
otherwise —(the old Roman conqueror’s or Csesar’s
boast, “ Behold the number and the youth of our
captives)—would it not be a brilliant idea to do
the thing properly and to organise a mammoth
disaster a week or two before the advent of each
sue essive Queen’s Birthday ? And if the scheme
seemed to take with the “swells, ’ the Prince of
Wales’ Birthday might be, in a like manner, pro-
vided for. But the whole “ move ” is a tawdry
one calculated to divert from the Bulii Fund the
money subscribed by private philanthropy, into
the specious charity collection-plate, passed round
by vice regal vergers, and sanctified with the sign
of the Golden Calf. I hardly think the affair will
be a success, for Jubilee is dead-born in Austra-
lia, and Australians of the genuine type do not
need the approving nod of avaricious Royalty to
prompt them to acts of charity, as witness the
success, up to the present, of the Bulii Fund. But
in the event of there being women, weak-minded
or inexperienced enough, to listen to the voice of
the Imperial collecting charmer, I entreat you to
warn all the wives, mothers, and daughters of
Australia to give nothing to this Jubilee business.
When the collector ca'ls let them refuse point-
blank, and send along the money which they
would otherwise have given, to swell the Bull!
Fund.—Yours, Wilson Gray.
The “splendid portrait of the Prince of
Wales, signed by him and presented to Archer ”
fetched eiactly £l2 12a. at the sale of the deceased
jockey's effects. The “ portrait of the celebrated
mare, Paradox,” brought £l6 16s. Who wouldn’t
re a horse ?
Alderman Moubray, of Melbourne, was
cudgelled in Collins street, recently, by a long
thin individual, named Halford. It is needless to
mention that the assailant is a crank. Nobody in
his right senses would think of behaving so badly
to a real alderman.
The Mayor of Geelong calmly squatted him
self on the Bench, the “ther dry, to adjudicate
on an assault-case in which his son was a principal
party. Theyoften dothissortOfthingatGeelong—in
the name of the Loard. They boycott TnE Bulle-
tin in the same interest.
“The Border Watch (S.A.) says that the
gentleman who was appointed to interview the
picture of the “ Spanish Girl,” which lately
threw the holy society of Adelaide into confusion
and agitation (to get a look at it) “is unfortu”
nately not regarded as an authority on modesty 1”
This is severe, but where shall we look for our
authorities on modesty in these days ?
Certain Melbourns Civil servants are com-
plaining of too much holiday. Don't faint. These
malcontents are not in the Titles, or the Lands ;
neither do they toil and sweat in the Premier’s
office. No. They are just common labourers in
the railway goods-sheds, and a compulsory holiday
delights them not, because the Government stops
a day’s wages. It seems hard lines for these poor
fellows to be placed on a different footing to the
more culchawed Civil servants in offices, but
perhaps it is necessary. The country suffers an
undoubted loss when one of the labourers takes a
holiday, whereas the country loses nothing when
Adolphus Fitz-Jinkins (of the Rent and Taxes De-
partment) goes away for a month. It would be
absurd to discount Dolly’s wages on the excuse
that he had missed a day's work : equivalent to
fining him for neglecting to bring his tooth-pick
and pocket-oomb.
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co., of
North Queensland, consists of a million shares,
which are now worth in the open market about
£2 10s. each 1 Of these no less than 250,000 are the
property of Mr. Tom Hall, a Rockhampton bank-
manager, whose original outlay in the mine did
not, we believe, exceed a couple of thousand
pounds. The Company’s dividend for last quarter
was only. £50,000, but when the new chlorination
plant, &c., is erected and got into full working
Older the nett returns will average £15,000 a
week just as surely as day follows night. The
Company have, already stacked, thousands upon
thousands of tons of ore all of the same splendid
uniform richness, which has so long (owing to
insufficient appliances) been awaiting treatment
that young gum-trees are growing out of the
heaps.
Is Parliamentary prayer to become fashion-
able? At a recent meeting of the Sydney Young
Women’s Christian Association Dr. Steel pro-
posed : “ That this meeting desires to express its
thanks to Almighty God for the success which
has attended the labours of the Y.W C.A. during
the past year.” The resolution was seconded by
Rev. Dr. Kinross, but the report does not state
whether it was carried, nor whether the Almighty
acknowledged the compliment and suitably re-
plied. If this style of prayer becomes fashionable
the new grace after meals will, we suppose, con-
sist of a resolution by the head of the household
to the effect, “That this company desires to
express its thanks to the Almighty for the success
which has attended its labours during the past
hour." This will be seconded by one of the com-
pany, and there you have a Parliamentary grace.
The same principle can be applied to evening
prayer by married couples, but, of course, solitary
individuals would labour under the disadvantage
of having no seconder, and the resolution would
consequently be lost.


LEO: NOW, MY CHILDREN, DON 'T QUARREL. ILL GIVE PUDDING.” —“The Pope offered to arbitrate between France and Germany in the Sebnaebele affair.”


THE IMPERIAL FEDERATION COW; OR, THE EMPIRE AS IT WILL APPEAR WHEN “MORE CLOSELY DRAWN TOGETHER.
VICTORIA (the milkmaid): “IT’S A CLUMSY JOB, BUT I GET MILK ALL THE SAME.”


A most enjoyable dance took place lately at Government
House, Sydney. Among the most becoming dresses there
were thosefrom the "Worth ” of the South, Mrs. McCathie*
King-street, who has a large clientele among the ladies of
Sydney.*
The best selection of Boots and Shoes to be had in Sydney,
and at a reasonable priee, f r less than London or Paris, is
at Hust's Boot Emporium, 408 Gaorge-street, corner df
Sydney Arcade. Point toes for fashion, low heels for com-
fort ; to suit young or old, in fact, to suit everybody. Come
and see for yourself.*
Society
Notwithstanding the threatening state of
the weather, Lady Carington’s first reception this
season was very largely attended. Her ladyship,
accompanied by His Excellency, received her
guests on the verandah. She wore a becoming
costum-a of steel-blue silk with a sash crossing the
front of the bodice, and falling at the left side to
the edge of a skirt of oriental gold design in
silk ; bonnet cn suite. Among the guests were
the Countess of Aberdeen, who wore a grey cash-
mere dress trimmed with steel grey velvet; Lady
Darley, attired in handsome black ; Mrs. Fairfax
(wife of the Admiral on the Australian Station),
in dark-blue striped velvet and silk; Mrs.
(General) Richard-on, in black ; Lady Manning,
in a handsome costume of light steel-grey surah :
Mrs. MMillan, in a beautiful dress of black lace
richly trimmed and ornamented with steel em-
broidery—and many others.
Long ago, when we believed implicitly in
everything, from a Chinamen to an angel, we used
to cherish an illusion that Messrs. Fairfax and
Sons, of the Sydney Morning Herald, upheld
in every way the felicity of unbounded domes-
ticity, and we still cherished the belief as lately as
last week, when our confidence was knocked silly
by the following S.M.H. ad. : “Wanted, a man
that understands vinegar-brewing, home experi-
ence necessary. Apply, * Vinegar, Herald.
How “pickings” are being taken away
from some people ! It has beeD, and still is, the
old fangled law in England that where a marriage
does not take place in a
church it is necessary for
the district-registrar of
m&rriageß to be present.
Of course the registrar—
if he happened to be a
decent-spoken fellow of
well-washed appearance
—was asked to stay to the
weddiDg-breakfast in
eight cases out of ten. It
is now proposed to do
a way with the provision
a 8 to this, and the re-
gistrars will lose many a
good outing in conse-
quence.
# *
There is trouble at
Government House, Mel-
bourne, all along of an in-
dividual of high position
who, after marrying a
Hebe of doubtful ante-
cedents, has endeavoured
to foist her on to the
haut ton.
A Melbourne tram-
car ran into a cab con-
taining Lady Clarke, the
other day. Her ladyship
was a little shaken so
was sassiety. The inci-
dent shows how danger-
ous it is for “carriage-
people” to ride in cabs.
Taught Lady Clarke a
severe lesson, my dear, I
an assure you.
* * *
A very elaborate
swell who had just been
transferred from Rock-
hampton to a Queensland
bush township met at
the first dance he attended
in his new locale, an extremely handsome girl.
After dancing with her half the night she allowed
him to see her home ; they parted on the door-
step, and he promised to call round next evening.
When he fulfilled the appointment, and was
shown in to the drawing-room, Betsy Jane in-
formed him that “ the missus would be down as
soon as ever she had finished putting the baby to
sleep.” His charmer turned out to be the young
wife of a prominent townsman and the mother of
three babie3. He didn’t wait for the baby to go
asleep. He skipped.
* * *
Earl Gumboil Cairns has not made quite
the sensation he calculated upon In Cooktown
(Q,). The first words he heard when he landed
were uttered by a Dutch-built youth who seemed
utterly staggered at his sick and wobbly aspect;
“ Well, he ain’t much of a lord. I’m blowed if
my brother Bill couldn’t wollop him, anyhow.”
A few yards further on be met with another
shock ; a portrait of Miss Fortescue was pasted on
the wharf gate and branded “ the Victim of
£10,000.” Cairns gazed with an unhappy smile
at the fair creature he had loved and lost and
then, as a long, loud laugh gradually rose around
him he slowly riled up till he lookod as if he
would have liked to tear down the wharf.
This is neat, strictly original, and wants
to be thought over. A certain very good lookiDg
woman who shines in Melbourne society and
dances divinely—by the way, she is always dino-
ing—lately said to a lady to whom she was intro-
duced : “ Ah, my dear, my two children are in-
deed beautiful ohildren, but they don’t much
trouble me. I have very little to do with them
after they’re born.” The other woman said
nothing, but went away and thus maliciously
summed the matter up in a letter to a Sydney
friend :—“ A society woman is a woman who
knows nothing about her children after they are
born. And a society man is, I suppose, a man
who knows nothing about his children before they
are born.”
• « *
English swells of a marriageable age are,
so Mrs. Grundy says, a drug in the Melbourne
matrimonial market. Cause—eo many have re-
cently changed their minds after wedding
daughters of respectable wholesale retailers of
merchandise, and eloping with fascinating bar and
stage charmers, leaving behind them disconsolate
wives and frenzied parents-in-law, who now only
refer to their aristocratic connections in terms
of execration.
It is wonderful how many ladies who are
now getting along very nicely in Melbourne ear-
s'ety, graduated at the beer-engine in the pub.
And among them there arc some clever women,
too. In Australia there are numerous ex barmaids
who are now the wives of iudges, barristers,
leading solicitors, prominent journalists, and even
well-known parsons—though however any parson
ever contrived to court abarmaid is hard to imagine.
By the way, the late Mrs. George Augustus Sala,
who was a good woman and true, was once a bar-
maid —at the “Spotted Dog” in the London
Haymarket.
At St. Paul’s church, Redfern, on Tues-
day, April 25th, a very pretty wedding took place
between Miss Clara Roberts, of Cocheston House,
and Mr. H. W. Banbury, of Brisbane. The bride
wore a very becoming toilette of pure white
striped Turkish crepe made walking-’ength.
A rather Frisky story comes from Bathurst,
N.S.W. A young lady (charming, accomplished,
and so on) became engaged to a young gentleman,
and superstitious people agreed that she loved
him. Well, the wedding trousseau was ordered,
and the rapturous day named, when the swain
received a note (scented faintly, we presume, and
written in a dainty Italian hand) stating that his
fiancee had discovered she couldn’t, wouldn't er
shouldn’t love him any more, for Bhe had given
her somewhat stretched affections to anothah, and
she intended utilizing the trousseau and the same
day to unite herself to the new pasdor. She
didn’t ask him as a favour to send her the license
if he had it about him, but this we presume was
an oversight on her part. The wedding morn
came round and the lady was united to the other
one for better or worse. Unlike a novel, the
story doesn't end here—oh, no! The newly-
riveted couple lived in harmony (we hope) for a
month or two, when one tine morning (we say that
for the sake of euphony—it may have been mid
night) there was an aching void in two Bathurst
households. For the heroine of this fable had
departed from the roof of her lawful spouse, and a
AN ASTOUNDING DIFFERENCE.
This is Mr. Waterspout of the Sydney Y.M.C. A. as he
appeared at the temperance meeting.
This is the aforesaid Waterspout in the solitude of his
own home.
gentleman, legally connected with another aneel,
had shaken the dust of Bathurst from his No. 9 s,
and these two wandering better halves had joined
themselves into one very much worse half and
waltzed over to Melbourne.
* * *
This advertisement, taken from a leading
Sydney daily, shows how people are waking up to
the intrinsic worth of a “ church member and
total abstainer ” :
‘ 4 A GENTLEMAN of good Christian character, Church
member, and total abstainer ; must be energetic, < f
good address, and well recommended; single preferred;
security required. Integrity, Post-office, Parramatta.”
At catechism he may be a swell.
May never touch a drop of pale “ Martell.’”
Yet, before they trust the cash, they resolve not
to be rash,
And ask him for “ security” as well.
They have zome worldly-wise justices at
Oamaru, N.Z., for a local magistrate decided in a
case the other day that euchre ‘ * was not a game
of chance.” 1 f played under certain conditions it
certainly is not, we ourselves having witnessed a
four-handed game between three rooks and a
pigeon, in which not the slightest element of
chance entered. Given four knaves up one’s
sleeve the result of the game is as dead a cer-
j tainty as that a colonial Governor’s titled A.D.C.
will make an ass of himself before he has held
office a year. The magistrate has probably “been
j there.”
It is reported that the bachelors of the
| Union and Australian Clubs propose giving a ball
during the present month.
• * #
( The marriage jof Mr. Chas.’ Wilkinson,
N.S.W. Government Geologist, with Miss Leiteh,
of Berry Jerry, was announced to take place on
the ith Inst.
* * *
Out West there iB a charming reciprocity
of feeling between the rising generation of whites
and the young blacks. The other day the family
of a certain squatter were leaving their station for
the first time in five years. The party consisted
of the mother, father, three eldest daughters (all
aged between 22 and 17), a lady friend aged 19,
who had been visiting them for some weeks, a
few younger children, and, lastly, a blaokfellow
arrived at tho age of whiskers. When his house-
hold wore settled in the railway carriage, about
five minutes before starting-time, papa kissed
them all round, and after him the black entered
the cajriage and kissed each member of the
family, including the young lady visitor ! This is
how they civilise the poor b’ack out West. It is
also how they grow such ruffians as the late Mr.
Johnny Campbell
Lord Carington will feel glad when he
reads what Reynolds Newspaper of the 13th
March has to say about him and liis song-singing
in the jolly old days in London. What a comic
dawg he must have been, to be sure, before he
began to get better ! Reynolds, however, and all
the rest of the English Press, to say nothing of
the fashionables who went it bald-headed among
the giddy crowd in that iovial past, will he re-
lieved to learn that His Excellency is now ever so
much improved, instead- of “ passing the
bottle,” and kicking up a racket among over-
turned hansom cabs, as some of his old chums are
still doing in l.ondon, he takes the chair at meet-
ings of the Young Women’s Christian A ssociaticn
and has votes of thanks moved to him by Parson
Vilkinson. But then Parson Vilkicson never had
the chance of hearing Carington clear his throat
and sing at these jolly gatherings, where Wales
used to Bliine, so there isn't so very much in his
vote of thanks, after all.
How the dear women love one another, to
be sure 1 Last winter a charming and altogether
fetching young lady went to pay a visit to a
matron, resldirg in a Queensland township, who
was the mother of a plain and unattractive girl.
When the stranger arrived, all the masculine
heads were turned, and all the masculine hearts
were burned, in the community. Meanwhile the
parent of the plain girl began to simmer, for her
daughter’s matrimonial prospects grew gradually
and beautifully less, as the new-comer knocked
’em all over like nioe-pins. Things focussed, and
a big race ball was given, to which were invited
the simmering mamma, the plain daughter, and
the victoiious belle. On the eventful night, how-
ever, only the mother and daughter toed the
scratch—the belle not putting in an appearance
Queries, of course, were numerous as to why
Mies hadn’t shown up i To all inquiries the
now suave matron replied that “Miss had a
cold and was generally indisposed,” But lo! as
the hands of the clock pointed to 12, a little buzz
arose at the ballroom dcor, and who should pre-
sent herself—well-dressed and in sparkling form—
but the victorious belle ! Next day everybody in
the district knew that the matron, frightened of
seeing her daughter put in the shade on this im-
portant [occasion, had locked the pretty stranger
up in her bedroom, but that the belle, resolved
not to be outdone, had dressed herself and
clambered down a tree which grew near the win-
dow and walked over to the scene of festivity!
Fact.
There is a club in Rockhampton fre-
quented by back-blocks squatters who have come
down [to get drunk, and who, being practised
hands, know when they are approaching the stage
of delirium tremens. lately, some twenty of
these festive individuals were sittii g in the
smoking-room, each suspicious that the others
were close up to the delightful mark. They were
thus all very close up to it, you will say. Well,
suddenly a cry arose of “ A rat! A rat!! ” A panic
was imminent, when a well-trained waiter rushed
in and yelled : “ Gentlemen, be calm. It was a
rat!’’ P S —This story is almost too good for
Bockhampton. But the world is small, and his-
tory repeats its elf.
* * *
Every Australian Mayoress is just now
afflicted with Jubilee on the brain. To Mrs. G.
C. Glauscen, Mayoress of Fitzroy (Vic.), is due
the credit of the most original idea. She agitates
that “ an address be compiled for presentation to
Her Gracious which any woman may sign on pay-
ment of one shilling.”
At a “sassiety” ball—Brown: “Say,
Jowne3, you'll have old Grump dooced jealous,
you’re going for his wife too strong, dontcher-
know.” Jones : “ Naw feah. Grump gave me
leave to cut out Young .”
* * *
The Queen’s School (Sydney) amateur
athletic sports take plaoe on the 25th May.
A swagger wedding was celebrated in
Sandhurst (Vic.) last week, when the bland Pon
Chi, of Ironbark, amalgamated with Miss Wah
Chuey. of Melbourne, and improved the occasion
with Celestial rites. Enough crackers were ex-
ploded to kill a Czar, and all the Chinese delica
cies of the season, includi' g those vari coloured,
mysterious hashes for which the Celestial chef
is famed, fricasseed rat, and young oat stuffed
with onions, graced the groaning board. Mr.
Pon Cbi invited 300 guests to revel over his nup-
tials. The Chinese benedict oan afford to stag,
“ Oh let us be joyful,” for is not his head shaven?
* # *
The shades of night were falling fast,
When from a giddy hou-e there pasted
An aide-de-camp ; and by his side
Was w-aiking someone else’s bride—
Good Gracious !
They hurried through the chilly air,
But eyes were on the guilty pair.
A fellow followed up the male,
And spread abroad the spicy tale—
Good Gracious I
The above pome embodies the latest Australian
sassiety scandal.
Dr. and Mrs. Dansey gave a most delight-
ful dance at their residence, Saltaire, Sydney, on
April 22nd.
* * #
The death —from apoplexy—is announced
of Mrs. Wiight, wife of Dr. Wright, the veteran
Sydney medico whose difficulties in connection
with the bogus charges made by the enterprising
wife of an alleged Victorian parson and her two
male “ pals,” ate still fxesh in the public mind.
Veriiy, “ misfortunes never come singly ” : Miss
Wright is row announced to be very [criously ill.
The Melbourne phrenologist who implored
Lord Aberdeen to "keep himself alive ” for duty's
sake, describes Lady Aberdeen as a lady who
“ may develope in Lime some of the grand pro-
portions of the Florentine Venus.” He also re-
marks that Lady Cnrington “ is already a Venus
de Medici.” We don't wish to raise unpleasant-
ness in high-toned family circles—but what does
this idiot mean ? Wbat are the strongest points
of resemblance between
these noble ladies and
them there Venuses ?
It can’t be costume the
man is thinking about.
* * *
Mrs. Malaprop, of
Sydney, says that her
husband gives her bonne-
boncht to buy everythink
she want*. Of course
she means carte-blanche,
but what on earth did
she mean when she said
that some distinguished
friends had presented her
with a hopera cloak lined
with vermin ?
* * *
A misprint of DeerJJ
hurst for Sandhurst, in
last week’s Bulletin,
made us say that the
famous lord had sailed
for England in company
with Earl Dudley and
Admiral Tryon. Deer-
hurst is still in Mel-
bourne, his friend Dud-
ley having left him (as
stated in the paragraph
referred to) to get home
in his own way. It is
worth mentioning, in this
connection, that book-
maker Sutton has gone
home with his blushing
appeal case honours thick
upon him.
* * *
Although agricul-
ture has been a failure
this season in Tasmania,
and crops have yielded
far less than even the
lowest estimate, harvest
thanksgivings have been held throughout the
colony, just the same as if everything were flourish-
ing.. In most of the Anglican churches profuse
decorations, symbolical of plenty, thank- -offerings
for a bountiful harvest, and special hymns of
praise were used, and only the farmers, who
know what a “ bad season ’’ entails, seem to have
realised the mockery of the whole performance.
From the “ hatched ” column of Friday’s
Nooze :
“ . —Ap’ll 15, the wife of Michael , Fsq., of
twins (a lovely boy and girl), Bnckland-street, Waterloo,
all doing well. Clare papers please copy,"
That’s all right, as matters stand at present, but-
we’d like to hear from Michael , Esq., again,,
after he has performed his midnight parade with 1
a lovely squalling boy on one arm and a lovely
shriekiDg girl on the other, while an excited'
soprano voice from under the bedclothes declared it
“ knew he was pinching the dear little angels on
purpose.”
A chivalrous Tcrricks (Vic.) bachelor
farmer the other day saw a neighbour be s' ing his
wife, who screamed loudly for assistance. The
preux chevalier at once hopped over the fence
and took a hand in the contest. He pranced
round the cruel husband like a cooper round a
cask ; but when the woman saw her hubby vras
getting knocked out of shape, a revulsion of feel-
ing set in. She went for her rescuer, entangled
herself in his hair, and proceeded to sorape up
ohip3 with his comely person. Wife and husband
formed an offensive and defensive alliance, and
though the neighbour is a middle aged man, he
says (with considerable difficulty, for his jaw is
out of joint) that he cannot remember suoh
another busy time in that district sinoe he was a
boy. When the loving pair had done with him
he looked as if he had been pressed to sing by a
steam roller, and combed out with a harrow.
The poor fellow is ia bed now at the hospital,
stuck over with rags and ointment.


Confound those brats! They've broken my Spectacles l
But I’m not going to pay half-a-guinea again. I know a
game worth two of that. Real Pebble Spectacles, os pair, at
Osborn and Hunter’s, the Spectacle-makers, 63 Sydney
Arcade (ffrst floor *
The combination of ingredients used in making Rowley’s
Cough Emulsion is such as to render it the best-known
remedy in the world for Coughs, Colds, Asthma, or Bron-
chitis. Iccan be obtained direct froraW. M. Rowley, Chemist,
Bourke-3treet, Fast Melbourne. Price 2s. 6d. per bottle, end
from all chemists.*
The Melbourne Press is going in for any
amount of gush over Lady Loch’s wonderful
Jubilee suggestion. It is extolled as a mira-
culous exhibition of womanly tact, feminine
wisdom, gracious consideration, and sundry other
things. Contending dailies have agreed to bury
the hatchet for once, and have united in slobber-
mg over this unique proposal of the Governeress’s.
A so-called “ comic ” rag depicts Lady Loch as an
angelic bearer of glad tidings to the world in
general. And all becanse this lady makes a
commonplace oroposal to establish a “ Queen’s
Fund ” for the relief of women in Victoria. It is
not even original, for before Lady L. put her dis-
tinguished ideas in writing a notoriety-hunting
Mayoiess issued a circular soliciting subsc iptions
for htr Jubilee Fund, having a like object. But
now that Government House has taken up the
matter we must prepare ourselves for one con-
tinuous howl of joy. Other women may go
0 übileeing on their own account, but the Press for
some time to come will ignore the pretensions of
outsiders. The prospects of being thus extin-
guished is very distressing to the Mayor of
Hothum, who states that Lady Loch will make
the poor Mayoresses do ail the work of this
Jubilee business, while she snavels the power,
and the honour, and the glory henceforth and for
ever. Amen. And perhaps this is as well. Her
Gracious can’t make Lady Loch a K.C.M G
* * *
Sir Henry and Lady Loch arrived in
Sydney on Thursday, bent on some kind of Jubilee
business with a great military racket thrown in.
A considerable amount of powder was wasted,
and after the review at least one excited horse-
marine distinguished the occasion by firing blank
cartridges all the way home from the top of the
omnibus.
Signs of the times. Squatters ruined, as
this will prove. ACastlereughlN.S.W.) leaseholder
engaged* lad for a certain job, and let him have a
quarter-pound of tobacco the first night. The
overseer, however, had already put on another man,
so the squatter apologised to the fellow he had
agreed with, and asked him if he had smoked any
of the tobacco. 4 ’ Only a fig,” was the answer.
44 Oh I well, give me back the other four ’—which
were actually antskl-up. 44 Of course,” adds our
narrator, 44 the employer is a Scotchman.’
Even in the discharge of a simple duty we
should always see that it is loaded. The above
remark was originally made by a philosopher, and
it points direct at the population of Tasmania, who
are loaded up to the muzzle just now with
grovel of the crawlingest description. A few
weeks ago it was announced that the 44 ladies ” of
Tasmania were getting up an address to the
Queen, and a high-born committee was appointed
to whoop for tire cash. Among those who started
the movement were the wives of all the meanest
men still alive, and one of them especially shone
with borrowed glory inasmuch a 3 she was re-
lated to a gentleman who lately prosecuted
a poor servant girl for eating butter at her meals.
Bat while the ladies were going about the matter
in their own distinguished way the women
thought they would also have a turn, and the
girls wanted to know what was the matter with
them that they should not have a show of doing a
benevolent action for Tummy’s progenitor. Ac-
cordingly these two classes of a toadying com-
munity got up their own committee of full-grown
women who were not ladies, and issued a circular
to females of 44 all ages, ranks, classes, beliefs,
and opinions,” calling on them to send in their
portable assets. This sweeping invitation covers
everybody, from the knock-kneed, hump backed,
cross-eyed Sarah Jane who washes the dishes in
the boarding house, to the wealthy, poodle-wor-
shipping maiden aunt of 75, and the lady—we
mean the woman—who carries the bag is open to
receive any article of value, from a £1 Wolfe’s
schnapps-order down to a donation of two three-
penny bits, a postage stamp, a china dog, and a
dictionary. The question now at issue is whether
the ladies who don’t seem to be women, or the
women who don’t call themselves ladies are going
co be ahead, and we bet our little pile on the
women.
Ugly rumours are afloat touching an inci-
dent which is raid to have occurred at the iecent
N.S.W. military encampment. The story goes
that on a certain night a gallant Majali and a
bold Lieutenant were absent from the camp, and,
being, on their return, challenged by the sentry,
endeavoured to conceal their ignorance of the
countersign by remarking, in an off-handed style,
“That’s all right, my man; Majah Bombastes,
and Lieutenant Fnrioso.” The absurd sentry,
however, refused to be bluffed off like that, and
flatly refused to let the distinguished warriors
pass, upon which, it is said, one of the officers seized
the soldier's rifle and started a cateh-as catch-can
tussle for its possession. Daring this unseemly
scrimmage, the Majah received a bayonet-prod in
the hand, and one of his big toes was jammed
into the shape of a squelched banana The guard,
hearing the row, turned out, and after the Majab,
Lieutenant, and sentry had told their stories, the
sentry was promptly locked up. The rumour
further avers that he was soon afterwa'ds released,
and complimented by his recent assailants on the
impartial manner in which he had performed his
important duty, and one of them also let him into
the secret that his was only a test case arranged
by the officers to see whether the sentries would
make any distinction in the way of favouring those
above them. And this is war !
Times must be getting pretty hard with
some of the N.S.W. country clergy. At a church
not a a great distance from Young, on Sunday
week, the usual carter of the hat was absent, and
no one offered to perform the principal ceremony.
After waiting a reasonable time, the man of
truth remarked : 44 Well, brethren, if no collec-
tion is to be made, we will sing the 53rd hymn in
Sankey’s : 4 Here we suffer grief and pain.” N.B.
— That “fetched” them. P.S.—Joke as old as
the hills.
It seems expenses are being curtailed in
the N.S.W. Education Department, and Minister
Inglis has already docked the teachers' cleaning
allowance. The Bulletin now calls his atten
tion to the allowance for sewing, which is really
unnecessary, as the wives of married teachers
could teach sewing gratis just a 3 well as clean
school buildings for nothing. Besides, an un-
married man would be just as much at home with
a needle in his hand as with a scrubbing-biush.
A “ young man just married” advertises
in the S.M. Herald that he is “prepared to
travel.” We shouldn’t wonder.
A lady met a gentleman friend on the
Sydney block the other morning whom she had not
seen for years. Naturally enough, there were
many inquiries, “ And so you arc married t ”
said he ; “ well, and how many olive-branches
have you ? ” “ Three. And you are married
too ? ” responded the lady vivaciously ; “and how
many children have you ? ” “ Two —at home,”
responded he. Then a silence a 3 thick as an
Italian brogue fell between them, and the gentle-
man suddenly remembered an appointment
Tho new hansom cab, about which there
was so much excitement in London a few weeks
ago, proves not quite the thing it is cracked up to
be. In fine weather it has no roof, so that the
driver can breathe on the head of his passengers
and join in the conversation, and this is nicer for
the driver than for the passengers Every ancient
lady who is trying to look young is troubled with
a hideous suspicion that her Jehu is looking down
the back of her neck and voting her yellow and
skinny below the high-water mark of her pearl-
powder, and for other women’s husbands who
take other men’s wives out driving, the arrange-
ment is fatal. Even when a respectable doctor
UNGUARDED CANDOUR, OVERHEARD AT SYDNEY ZOO.
SHE: (seeing the monkey “ prospecting" his friend's coat): “HOW VERY HUMAN! 13 IT
NOT, CHARLES?”
takes the wife of a red headed Scotch nobleman
to his house at midnight for the pure and bu-ioess-
iike purpose of giving her a dose of bromide of
potassium, or some equally soothing drug, he d oesn’t
like to have both their heads sticking out of an
unroofed cab and to hear the small beys yelling
after him. Hi 1 come back with that gal 1"
Such a thing is calculated to caps’ze society and
make many a newly-constructed lord wish his
father had died before his mother was born. It is
bad, too, for the fresh K.C.M.G. who goes home
with his collar fixed in a hangman’s knot under
his large red ear, and hurrahs for the Queen, and
wants to flog the horse with the tails of his dress-
coat to make it gallop, for not only is his flat, ine-
briated face an object of interest to all beholders,
but he starts giving the driver half-crowns to
chase other open hansoms with other men’s best
girls in them, and when he gets alongside he tells
them with an excited leer that he is a representa-
tive Australian, and proposes to see them home.
The new cab, in short, is calculated to blast a
solid average of three reputations a night, and
considering how many damaged lords there are
already, it ought to be suppressed by the solemn
gabble of an Act of Parliament.
A mad wag the other day adv ised a Sydney
masher with a weakness f ~r ships-of-war to soend
an afternoon on the Svvisg cruiser in Farm Cove.
She was well worth a visit, he told his friend ;
the officers were only too glad to show any
gentleman over the vessel; chance of getting an
invite to the “ Swany,” &c. “ Bai Jove, would
he go 2 Rather. How would he proceed in lhs
mattah ? ” “ Oh, nothing easier, call at the Con-
sulate and get an order.” It is alleged that when
the Consul of the Republic without a coast line
was interviewed on the subject by the young man
in the high collar, he talked about kalsomined
sheol, and pointed out that the date was the
first of April.
We once longed to be a N.S.W. soldier,
but the backbone-thrill of enthusiasm at the tap
of the drum has subsided into a cold shudder,
and this metamorphosis has been effected by an
innocent-lookiDg little four-line ad. in the S.M.
Herald
“ Those returning from the Easter encsptnenfc are advised
to take a course of Turkish baths, the test remedy for colds,
rheumatism, gout, sciatica, and all complaints arising from
damp, expoiure, fatigue, &c."
News comes from London thab an im-
mortal soi-disant literary parsonage, who was
recently pretty well chased out of Australia, is
about to publish a very interesting book giving
the family history, with minute particulars of
pedigree, of the socia l , commercial, and political
leaders of the colonies. Needless to say that the
work will be fascinating from many points of
view, and that it is not probable the gifted author
will re-vmt the scenes of his Australian labours,
either as a murderer of “ the Queea’s Engli, h 1 or
as a depleter of the purser of the wealthy.
There have been Australian students of
different types in Paris Mr. John Iluybers. of
Tasmania, and his sister, are now painting hard
there. Mr Huybers had a fine painting of “ A
Paris Soup Kitchen ” in the Maryborough Gallery
last year. The late daughter of Sir Archibald
Micbie. whose death was recorded by cablegram
of April 4th, was studying music and siagiog in
Paris. She was very poor, and lived in the
Qaa’tier Latin for years, supporting herself in
part by her needle. Miss Micbie tried hard to
obtain an engagement at the Cafes Chantantes
in the Baulcvards, but without success. She
proudly refused to accept help from friends,
although ehe probably never had as much money in
her pocict as the cost of the cablegram -nnounc-
ine: her death to the Victorian public. Miss
Miehie, during the last d»ys of her life, lived next
tj the tiles in the Hotel BiroD.
Mrs. Malaprop, of the Point, said recently
ihat she considered electric-plate as pretty as
genuine silver.
• • •
Mr. J. Longstaff has won the gold medal
and “ travelling scholarship ” at the exhibition of
the Art students of the Victorian National Gal-
lery at Melbourne. This scholarship is worth
£l5O a year, and the holder is supposed to spei ri
his time in Europe sucking in art at his pores by
contemplation of the works of the “ old masters.”
There are miles of these old masters in the dif-
ferent galleries, and the young Australian will be
kept in good physical training in trotting around.
A deal of fun can be got out of £3 a week in
France and Paly. A student is rich on 300 francs
a month in the Quartier Latin. The Australian
scholar may briDg back a lot of studies of gri nttes
and contadini, whom some novelists rave about,
although we will back our Woolloomooloo and
Colliogwood Fiat girls against them fo* poesy of
expression. He will also learn how to make
salads and roll cigarettes and swear in foreign
torgues. Altro ! Mr. Longstaff is the son of a
popular storekeeper and J P. at Shepparton in the
Goulburn Val’ey, and is one of a highly talented
family. His prize picture, “ Breaking the Ne ws,”
is full of feeling. The young ladies therein are
portraits of his sisters. We wish the young Vic-
torian artist bon voyage, and good luck I
“ Clericus ” writes :
4i Apropos of your par. in list Bulletin re the Melbourne
clerk who while in charge of a business earns the magnifi-
cent sum of 20s. a week. A few weeks ago a leading Sydney
merchant advertised for ‘ a competent book-ke per, wages
£1 per week,’ and in two days' time uo less than 138 applica-
tion* were received for that splendid billet. Amongst the
applicants were a ‘retired’ army-captain, two ex-clergymen,
an ex-banker, an Oxford B.A , and a party, who, as Mrs
Micawber would say, was ‘not unconnected’ with thaßritish
peerage. Whatever claims N.S.W. may have to be con-
sidered a Paradise for the worktng man, it is simply Hades
for clerks.”
* * *
Mr. Sly, of Parramatta, N.S. W., has
been adjudged by the majesty of the law to pay
sixpence a week tor the support of his wife and
four children, so the chances are that the Slys,
junior, will have to buzz round pretty extensively
in search of victuals. A few months ago the Sly,
were a happy and united family, but after a
while Mrs. Sly took, according to her husband’s
account, to walking with William Lakeman at 10
and 11 o’clock p.m. Sly, thereupon, suggested
that if his wife wanted to “ stand on the bridge!
at midnight” she might as well do it in his
society as in that of anybody else, but his ad-
vances, he says, were rejected with derision.
Soon after this family bui*3t up, and Mrs. Sly
started a boarding-house, with Lakeman as the
only boarder, and her husband, whom she de-
scribed as “ a brute and not fit to take care of a
dog,” was ordered to prop up the concern to the
extent of 12s a week. He propped for some time
and then he appealed against being taxed to sup-
port this kind of a boarding-house. Lydia Sly,
on getting into ilie witness-box, taid she saw no
harm in keeping only one boarder ; it was her
misfortune, net her fault, that she had only one,
and she would have more if she could get them.
The Bench then reduced Sly’s contribution to
sixpence a week, and on hearing this the lady
rushed at him, and, in the beautiful words of the
Sydney E. News, “ landed him a oner.”
* * *
The very latest swindle. An advertise-
ment appears, offering evening employment to
clerks and bookkeepers, hundreds of- whom are of
course eager to get such work. The answers are
to be sent to some anonymous individual, care of
the G. P. O , and a stamp is to be enclosed for
reply. Then the ingenious one proceeds to pocket
countless hundreds of stamps and turn them into
cash.
WOMAN ITEMS.
A combined bustle and chair is the latest
invention Ladies should now be competent to
tike the chair at any moment.
The bos3 .Jubilee suggestion is that por-
traits of marriageable girls should be hung in
Melbourne Public Library. 1 he girls would like
to hang the horrid man who suggested it,
“ Ah, yes,” she sighed, “John has been
a good husband to me! ” “I thought you
separated jears ago!” “We did, but he is
always prompt with the alimony.' 1
“No love is so intense as that of the
eighteen-year old youth for the twenty-six-year-
old girl. He g ts over it. of course; hut while
it s in motion it’s sixty miles an hour, including
stops.
Pretty Debutante (dressed for the first
party, to Sister Alics) : “ Do*3 my dress fit, and
how doss my improver look ! ’ Sister Alice :
“ Oh it's all right, and your improver looks as
large as life.” Young Innocent (who has been
surveying it critically): *• Yes, and a good deal
larger.”
There will be no leap year between 1896
and 1901, so the girls will have to land their prizes
in 1388. “Theordinary test of division by four
would make 1900 a leap-year, since no remainder
wool! be left, but in revising the calender Pope
Gregory XIII fonnd that there wa3 at least one
mirae'e that he couldn’t work, and that it would
be necessary to count as leap years only those
centurial years which would be divisible by 400
without leaving a remainder."
In a letter to one of the Sydney dailies a
correspondent inferred that in N.S.W. the female
public school teachers were “ well educated
ladies.” Probably they are occasionally, but as
we waited for our mail at the counter of a
country post-office, one of the “ ladies ” came in
and asked for a letter. There was none ; upon
which the lady stamped her foot, and exclaimed,
pettishly : “ Oh ! is they no letters for me ? Oh,
my ! and I expected a big ’ un ! ”
A male angel warbles thus in the Mel-
bourne Herald : —
“No black for me, dear love, when I am dead ;
Shroud not that precious face in funeral fold,
But wear a soft slate veil upon your head,
As fits a saintly woman growing old."
Slate is a new material to make veils out of, and
it couldn’t be soft even if it were boiled. Pro-
bably, however, the girl is a barmaid, and he is
thinking of the dear old times when she used to
chalk it up on the slate. N.B.—This is a very
deep choke.
In England when a penniless rough as-
saults a strange woman in order to rob her of half-
a-crown he gets five years’ gaol and perhaps a
flogging, but when a prominent stockbroker at
Macclesfield flogged his wife till she fainted in
order to make her give him £2000 which had
baen fettled on her by her father, he only got two
months. The goddess of justice is evidently a
rather precarious animal to deal with. Some-
t'me3 butter won’t melt in her mouth and on
other occasions she is vicious enough to chaw the
corner oil an iron safe.
Here’s a sample of one of the long-felt
wants the new N.S. Wales Divorce Extension
Bill will supply. “ What grounds have you for a
divorce application ?” asked a lawyer of a recent
client. “ Well, sjr," replied the afflicted party,
“me woife, Mary Ann, was a widdy whin Oi
mariied her, an' now. bad schran t’ me, av she
don’t be blowin all th’ wages Oi makes in th’ gas
foundhry fur masie3 fur her furst owld man
Muidoon waz his name ; th’ divil shake his sowl
oat- an’ Oi can’t go on shupportin’ her here and
him in Purgathury any longer. That's me case,
an’ Oi want you to put it through before nexht
pay day.”
The man who kept the little scourer’s
shop walked into the office where Montmorenci
Jones served his bleeding country and said : “I
found these letters in the lining of your coat, sir.
When your wife called and took it home I thought
It best to say nothiog about them.” The swell
turned pale, flushed up, and then turned pale
again ; and as he put them into one pocket and
drew half-a-crown from the other, he remarked ;
“ You did quite right. These are a couple of
letters my wife wrote to me when w r e were court-
ing, and I wouldn’t have lost them for a hundred
pounds.” “Quite right, sir, and I’m much
obliged. If she writes you any more and I find
’em you can depend upon my discretion.”— French
story, Englished.
A young “ masher ” of Sandhurst (Vic.),
received a surprise the other night. His beat was
on a gloomy block, where he was wont to thrust
his gallantries upon girls who knew him not from
a crow. These girls told their big brothers, and
the brothers banded together to devise ways and
means of arranging that a serious accident should
happen to him right away. The same night a
lusty youth arrayed himself in a bustle, and a
veil, and some other female fixings, and went
forth to trap the masher. The ruse succeeded,
the masher backed in immediately ; but suddenly
something hit him ; I hen he was caught up as if
by a tornado, whirled round, hit against the pave-
ment, against street-lamps, horse-troughs, pie-
shops, and corner pubs , carted to a vacant lot,
dressed in a new suit of tar and feathers, and sent
home to his ma.


The Referee
W. G. Brett, the ancient N.S. VV. amateur
sculler, made short work of Green, the Adelaide
man, in their outrigger race over the champion
course on Friday last, The so-called race was a
hollow farce, but as Mr. Green is said to be a
good man with the gloves, we II say no more about
it.
The steeplechaser, Dragon, which re-
cently changed hands to the tune of £6OO, was,
about three years ago, ridden in Mudgee by the
local letter-carrier. Mr. Rouse, the breeder, sold
the horse for £25.
A rumour is gaining ground in Sydney
that a celebrated racing-stable is owned by a
Union Club syndicate, and rot by an individual.
* * *
Terminus won the doubles at both the
Dubbo and Warren races. Having his throat cut
appears to have improved the old horse.
* * *
The roughs “ran against a suag” when
they rushed the stage during the recent Fuller-
Meadows boxing match. Foley steadied the
ringleader with a right-hander on the jaw, and
order was soon restored. Fuller took the lead for
the first few rounds, but then he went sick, and
Meadows was declared the winner.
• * *
At the high-priced but well-attended Cos-
tello-M‘Carthy fight, Yankee Coßtello stood over
the “ Professor” and must have scaled some 181 b.
heavier, but yet he was unable to knock out the
plucky little ’un, and a draw was declared at
eleven o'clock. If Costello can do no better than
“ draw ” after two hours and a half fighting
with a third-class colonial who gives him a stone,
his reputation must be paper only. Mitchell, his
companion, is far and away a better and pluckier
boxer than Costello,
In a steeplochase on Auteuil course,
France, a horse named Trident fell and dislodged
his rider. The horse’s trainer was standing by,
and jumping into the saddle rode till he came a
cropper at the next water-jump. Coulthorn, a
trainer, then mounted, but he also came to grief,
and one Baker then got up. Haut-Cloud, the
only other starter, had by then got a quarter-mile
lead, but he baulked, and Benson eventually
landed Trident the winner.
Joe Acton, known as the “ Little Demon”
in oatch-as-catch-can wrestling circles, has won
over £llOO in stakes daring his oareer.
S. Mathews, who weighs ten stone and a
half, and is the recognised champion light weight
Graeco-Roman wrestler, intends visiting Australia
soon. He is a brother of the doughty N.Z. boxer
of that name.
Leverett does not row in the Victorian
eight, and his retirement will seriously affect the
Cabbage Gardeners' chance.
Someone has actually suggested that
someone other than Charley Bros should be tried
as stroke of the N.S.W. Eight. Perish the
thought ! Who but Bros could have taken his
crew away last year at 50 to the minute ?
* * #
In England last year a charity festival
was inaugurated by the football people. This
year it has been decided to hold a Jubilee football
meeting, the profits accruing therefrom to be
devoted to the Imperial Institute Fund. Think
of this, ye philanthropists ! What the hospital
will lose the Imperial Institute will gain !
Dave Livingstone and Dick Stevens ran
their 10-mile race last Saturday night. There was
little or no betting, and the thing was genuine
enough. It was also the most remarkable foot-
race run in N.S.W. in it 3 way. The track
measured 50 laps to the required distance. At
the 35th lap Livingstone’s right shoe burst,and he
sat down to put on another. This gave Stevens
nearly 400 yards’ advantage, but although many
thought the race was all over, he gamely started
in his long stern chase. Then both his shoes
came adrift, and, running the last four miles bare-
footed, he inch by inch overhauled Stevens, ulti-
mately winning by four yards. The time, lh.
losecs., speaks for itself.
Hutchens, as a parting salute to the
colonies, said that nearly all the races he ran were
for “gate” only. “Billy” Lees, in the Noose,
says that he can prove the Samuels races were
genuine, aud who is to decide ? Pedestrianism
was ever a shady game, and it is keeping up its
status in the colonies. Some of the running-
ground committees wink at a “crook” by the
reputation men who draw big “gates” ; so, to
make things look fair and square on the face of it,
they now and then disqualify some poor devil of
an outsider. Hutchens’ in and out running was
never questioned by them. How many times has
The Bulletin said that the man who bets on
foot-races deserves to die in the asylum.
The Melbourne athletic show raked in
some £155 for the Bulli Fund. At the entertain-
ment “Professor” Miller made a record with a
properly-authenticated 1041 b. dumbbell, by raising
it to arm’s length above his head 12 times.
* * *
Inclusive of the A.J.C. meeting, E.
Gorry has this season had 32 wins out of 116
mounts ; A. Warke, 32 out of 50 ; and Hales, 30
out of 80.
* * *
The Yankees prohibit glove-fights and
sanction Graeco-Roman wrestling matches. Can
anyone name a glove-fight equal in brutality with
the Mathews-Hunter wrestle t To quote the his-
torian : “Mathews picked up his opponent and
butted his head upon the bare boards, pressing
him squarely down on both shoulders.” Hunter
had to be carried to his chair, and fell when
attempting to go to his dressing-room. Great
sport knocking a man senseless by butting his
head on the bare boards!
* * *
“ I’ll pay Samuels ! ” sang out several of
the bookmakers on the tape being breasted for the
final of the Botany Hurdle Race on Saturday,
when the hoisting of James W. Byrne’s number
saved them the mistaken expenditure. Some-
thing like the Abner-Lcchiel affair—only'more so.
That gamest of mares, Cerise and Blue,
is in a bad way at Richmond stud. The vet. says
there is no hope of saving the foal— by Grand
Flaneur.
A big Sydney turf-commissioner has
laid £lO,OOO to £2OOO against Abercorn winning
the V.R.C. Derby.
Should Mr. Deeble’s scheme for the
world’s sculling races come off as sug-
gested, we shall see some racing worthy
of the land which owns the champion
sculler, and such a magnificent course
to race upon. It is pioposed to have a
single-scull race for a prize of £5OO,
with a sweepstake of £lOO each, three
prizes of £7OO, £2OO, and £lOO guaran
teed ; and a double sculling race, to
take place a fortnight after the big event
with guaranteed prizesof £250, £lOO, and
£5O. January is the suggested date to
hold the meeting, and competitors from
England [and America will be allowed
£5O each expenses. Such
inducement will probably
draw Bubear, Perkins,
Gaudaur, H a n 1 a n,
Teemer, Ross, Lee, Ham,
and Ten Eyck from the
other side of the Herring
Pond, and matches innu-
merable outside the big
handicaps must be the re-
sult. Bravo! Deeble.
Sydney cricket died
last Saturday. Its mori-
bund kick was very
feeble. Carltons played
Alberts, and Turner (7)
and Ogilvie (3) took all
their former club’s wick-
ets for 10 runs, which
gigantic score included a
couple of sundries.
* * *
Harry Hutchens
sailed for England per
Orient s.s. Oroya, on Sa-
turday. He took a mo-
dest little pile of gate-
money with him, and in-
tends to return in time
for the Melbourne Cup.
Mr. Douglas Baird’s
Enterprise won the Two
Thousand Guineas at
Newmarket. Baird is
the plunger who paid
jockey Watts £5OOO
retaining-fee for secoruicallon his services for three
years. The joke of this engagement was that
Watts is a tall young man who will probably be a
welter weight before the three years have expired.
Jem Mace, the last of the “legitimate” J
prize fighters, had a big benefit in London last
month. Mace has been trying his hand at book-
making again, but with a book and pencil he
can't touch his old opponent, Tom King, who
rides in a carriage find pair, and promises to die
worth £50,000, at least. King, with his grizzled
hair and beard, is quite the heavy old swell until
he opens his mouth.
The N.Z. totalisators have scooped
£1,000,000 during the past twelve months. This is
far ahead of the churches.
In answer to Sali's challenge for a Grrnco-
Koman wrestle, Professor Miller offers to take on
Sali and Christol combined, under the established
rules. It seems that Sali wrestles on furrin lines
known only to himself. We are sadly afraid that
there is more hippodrome than real business about
the plump Signor.
* * *
The ex-Victorian amateur, Con Dwyer,
proposes a series of one, three, five, and ten
mile races with Mr. Amateur Bennett. Mr.
Victorian Bale, in the interest of whose ma-
chines Con Dwyer runs, is to hold a meet-
ing shortly on the Sydney Association i
Cricket Ground, and what more likely than
that at least a couple of the events should be
run off on Bale's day ! The recent expose amongst
the quasi-professionals and professionals has
shown that these “championship” races are any-
thing but beneficial to the cyclists’ cause, and
should not be countenanced by the Union.
In the match Carlton v. Alberts on Satur-
day, the latter were all disposed of for 10 runs,
Turner snaring 7 wickets for 3 runs. Those who
ought to know, you know, say Turner is a better
bowler than Spoff. was at his best.
The Sydney Association Ground people find
it had work to dispose of their immense revenue.
Their latest fad is the importation from Mel-
bourne of 200 bags of earth to give the g round a
top dressing.
That handsome gay deceiver, Recruit, was
in the humour on Saturday, and won the Bulli
Relief Handicap at Canterbury in a canter. A
well-known owner offered Kelso a tenner for him,
just for the satisfaction of having him shot.
The two Michaels, O’Brien and Dooley,
are to box to a finish at Foley's on Saturday
evening. O’Brien, who hails from Melbourne,
went down easily before Jackson, but no line can
be taken from that, as the champion also defeated
Dooley in much the same fashion.
* * *
In the programme of the Sydney High
School A. A.’s sports, on May 11, is included a
mile scratch race between R. M'Phail, of Sydney,
and R. Coombe, of Newmarket, England. The
affair is under the patronage and management of
the Eastern Suburbs and Ashfield A.A.C.’s.
BRIEF MENTION.
The Germans schnavelled Schnaebele.
In the cold—the N.S.W. school-teachers.
Italy sends us organ-grinders; England,
axe-grinders.
The “Widows’ Jubilee Fund”—Victoria’s
accumulated millions.
There was only one jockey killed at the
Warmambool (Vic ) meeting.
Unitarian Parson Giant says there is no
hell. Pooh ! Then how can brass bands be
punished 1
A Queensland editor wildly asks, “ Why
should we jubilate i" Put it right there, sonny—
that’s what we want to know.
An English paper says the largest beast
of prey at present roaming in Australia is the
diDgo. Wrong again. Our largest specimen is
the politician.
“ Jubilee Township ” (N.S.W.), which is
now in the market, ought to sell well. Who could
CRIPPLED IN ONE ACT
ask for a better address than Grovel Villa, Toady -
street, Jubilee ? ”
A rose diamond to cost £lO,OOO is to be
presented to Her Gracious by the young ladies of
England. A rose that is not a diamond would not
smell half as sweet to Victoria.
Shipping news in a Melbourne daily :
“ Sailed ; South Australian, for Melbourne.” We
wonder which bank is the sufferer this time, and
whoee wife he has taken with him ?
“ The Vagabond,” writing up the Mel-
bourne Eight-Hours’ demonstration for the Auk,
said: “ The Brewer’s is the only band loyal
enough to play ‘ God Save the Queen.’ ” The
other bands kept sober.
This is how the Melbourne Herald abbre-
viates Scriptural quotations : “ Well done, &c.”
It appears as a leader-heading. We shall soon be
seeing, “ Blessed are the thingummy, for they
shall inherit whatyermaycallit.”
An old swagman, with a hole in his head
and a War Cry in his pocket, was found dead at
Bacchus Marsh (Vic.) the other day. He is much
better off than if he were liviDg vtith a War Cry
in his head and a hole in his pocket.
A proper system of accommodation for
drunks is not among the beauties of the township
of Helidon, Queensland. The “jug” consists of
an old humpy where the constable, his wife and
family, reside. The drunks are packed in one
corner, and the family are regaled on choice pro-
fanity and beer aroma. The inhabitants might
celebrate the Jubilee by subscribing for a chain
and log.
From the S.M. Herald :—“ Wanted, a
young man to milk. J. Farmer, Bourke-street
South.”
The day of the cow is over
When Poley was milked ’mongst the clover,
Which sweet as sweet hay would scent.
Now, “ Daisy,” and “ Poley,” and “ Fairy ”
Will get the kick-out from the dairy,
For oh ! “ see advertisement! ”
Culled from the (presumably) funny
column of the Sydney Daily Fairfax :
“ Apartments, furnished, bath, kitchen, married
or single ; mod. 27 Blank-street S., off Dash-
street.”
’ Tis sweet to have a choice like this,
To choose a kitchen, harried
By matrimonial cares—or else
To take one that’s unmarried.
This paragraph, from London Life of March
17, casts a strong light on the cablegram of a fort-
night since about the Times and Parnell: —
“ The Times is laudably anxious that Mr. Parnell and his
associates should raise an action for libel against it, but
there is little likelihood that its wishes will be realised. It
has done everything in its power to exasperate the leaders
of the Home Rule party ; it has classed them as the asso-
ciates of the vilest of men ; it has twice challenged them to
defend themselves in a court of law, but all in vain. What-
ever would be the result of such an action it is quite certain
that during the trial the hidden workings of the Irish con-
spiracy would be laid bare, that documents never before
published would inevitably see the light, and that secret cor-
respondence which has long since passed out of the hands of
the principals in it would be divulged. Whether, as I have
heard, the Times has not published all the evidence in its
possession I cannot tell, but the very first effect of the an-
nouncement of a libel action would be offers of documentary
evidence hitherto unpublished, both from Irishmen in
America and in Ireland. The Irish informer is always forth-
coming for a consideration.
THIS WICKED WORLD
A Barcoo man reports to a Queensland
paper that his cat has hatched a brood of chickens.
Next year the chickens are going to hatch the
cats A Brisbane churchwarden calculates that
the amount of offertory disbursed by each atten-
dant only averages ljd There is only work for
30 lawyers in Auckland, N.Z., which nevertheless
is infested by 70 of the Devil’s Brigade A
practical loyalist of Winton (Q.) wants the local
publicans to reduce the price of drinks as one way
of celebrating the Jubilee Passage from the
address of a candidate for a seat in a V ict orian
Shire Council: —“ The fact that my property is
situated in the part of the riding lately re-
presented by Mr. Sullivan is a guarantee that
the roads in that locality will be well cared for.”.. ..
Hall, the Timaru poisoner, is said to be dying.
He eats little or nothing, and never utters a word,
even when spoken to According to the
Government Statist, barely one-fifth of the Vic-
torian Friendly Societies are solvent. What will
Mr. Coghlan have to say about those of N.S.W. 1
Civilisation progresses. A black gin at Nor-
manton (Q.) put a shilling into the church collec-
tion-plate “ You’re a liar, and if you come
outside I'll smash your nose, you pumpkin-headed
hound.” —Quotation from speech by Paddinyton
(Sydney) Alderman Rum is £4 per gallon at
Croydon (N.Q.). Water is also very scarce.
An attempt has been made at Sofia to
blow up General Popoff with dynamite. Nothing
came of the general poo off Many English
Liberals in England wore the Shamrock upon St.
Patrick’s Day. Whooroo ! Home Rule is coming
at last 1 Armour's pork-packing establishment.
Chicago, turned outin the year ending March, 18S6,
87,705,189 lbs. of meat. The number of animals
slaughtered was—pigs, 1,133,479 ; cattle 330,652 ;
sheep, 63,262 TheN.Y. Legislature has deter-
mined on killing condemned criminals by elec-
tricity instead of with the rope Lord Iddes-
leigh left £23,000 value of personal estate An
Arabian gentleman has been made a K.C.M.G.
This we suppose makes him an Arabian knight....
“Separation soap” has been introduced
into Winton (Q.). It is guaranteed to
wash the dirtiest anti-Separationist An
English Catholic (and, of course, Tory)
M.P., De Lisle, calls the Irish Archbishops, Arch-
Anarchists Four tenants, who owed £26 on
Lord Claricarde’s estates, were evicted at a cost
of £1372 for car-hire alone A boy was ex-
pelled recently from an English public school for
not bowing to the rector in the street. Ihe home
of the brave and the free.
The Sydney compos, held their picnic at
Chowder Bay last Saturday. It might be thought
that after the liquors had gone round sticks would
be flourished. That was not the case. Compos.,
as a rule, are not men of that type or forme. The
viands included lots of fat, and there was much
grass in the place. (John vi., 10).
Jeremy Bontham said Democracy was
“ the government of the people, by the people,
for the people.” W. M. Foote paraphrased that
at Clifton last Saturday in a neat definition of
Protection. He said: ‘ 1 Protection means the
work of the people, done by the people, for the
people ” ; and the miners cheered the speaker.
The female barometer of Melbourne stood
at set fair on the occasion of Mayor Cain's garden
party. The chief object of the Jubilee official
was to raise funds for a Convalescent Home for
Women, and among the means adopted for se-
curing the slippery sixpence were a Punch and
Judy, a “ Garden of Girls,” an “ Art Exhibition ”
—where the “Meet of the Findon Harriers”
proved to be a piece of raw beef and the other
comic swindles to match—and a children’s minuet
on the lawn. A lot of select gush about the ladies'
clothes is unavoidably crowded out, but they were
all very attractive, and the evergreen subject of
refreshments was carefully attended to.
Messrs. M. Moss and Co., of Sydney and
Melbourne, who run the famous medicinal drink
known as Wolfe’s Schnapps, write to us in a dis-
turbed frame of mind. One of the noted points of
their business is that a large number of £1 orders
are distributed along with the large-sized bottles
of their beverage, and it being represented to
them that the world is full of bald and spectacled
madmen who don’t know a £1 order when they see
it, they were induced to publish a facsimile of
the document in the Christmas issue of The
Bulletin. Thereupon an enterprising firm in
Samoa—the name of which recalls that of a cele-
brated murderer who was choked many years ago
—cut out the advertisement and sent it in with a
peremptory demand that the money should be
forwarded immediately. Messrs. Moss now
reckon that advertising a copy of their £1 orders
in The Bulletin is likely to cost them something
like £40,000 a week, The far-off namesake of that
old murderer is still waitiog for his remittance.
The “ cheap and beautiful light ” man—
otherwise Mr. Keeley, of 403 Pitt street, Sydney
—is running a choice illuminator which threatens
some day to ruin the quotations on gas shares.
The reservoir of Mr. Keeley’s lamp is filled with
gas oil, and his burner regulate? the light, from
the one-candle power adapted to the humble bur-
glar when shifting our personal effects to a 24-
candle glare for Jubilee illuminations. There are
no wicks, no glasses, no trimming—no nothing, in
short, except a beautiful white light fed by gas
that costs only ss. per 1090 feet. The oil with
which the reservoir is supplied will not burn wood
or even carpets, as in the event of a capsize it
merely blazes for a few seconds and then vola-
tilizes, leaving not even a mark behind it. The
lamp burns well in strong draughts, and under
other depressing circumstances which would make
an ordinary lamp take a back seat in disgust, and
in houses, railway stations, hotels, theatres, mines,
&c., it is admirably suited for raising a Christian’s
hopes to a high pitch.


There appears to be some one cause for nearly
every other ailment of the human system, but up
to the present time no one has been able to fully
account for this terrible malady. We understand
that the people of Germany have become aware
of its fearful fatality, and have offered 400,000
marks (£20,000) to atayone that can satisfactorily
explain the cause.*
T|[ 4A T it K KO* A L.
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove
Lessee, Mr, Sam Lazar.
TO NIGHT (THURSDAY), May 5,
THE BARBER OF SEVILLE.
Friday, May 6... ... ... IL TROV ATORE
Saturday (Benefit of Signora Tagliavia),
UN BALLO IN MaSCHERO.
Prices— Dress Circle, 7s. 6d.; Orchestra Stalls.
55,; Stalls, is ; Family Circle. 2s.
Alhambra music hall.
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Suith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipf.
CONGRESS MEETS AT 8 P.M. WHAT FOR?
To Discuss the Reason why Minstrel Shows come
and go, but we go on for ever.
And also to enjoy our heavily-laden Tables of the
CHOICEST NOVELTIES,
Presided over by 35 Carvers of
UNDOUBTED TALENTS.
Prices for this Banquet-
Orchestra Chairs, 2s ; Stalls, Is; Balcony, 6d.
Grand Sacred and Classical Concert every
SUNDAY EVENING, at 7.30.
POGONOSKI,
705 GEORGE-ST.,
Sydney.
CONCERTINAS
ACCORDEONS
VIOLINS, &c.
Strings sent by Post
705 GEOROE STREET..
Under the Management of Mr. B. N. Jones.
Immense success of
GRATTAN R GGS
MAGGIE KNIGHT
and
FIRST CLASS COMPANY.
By Arrangement with Mr. CHAS. M‘M AHO N.
Sole Lessee and Proprietor
THEATRE.
Mr. John Solomon.
4th WEEK. 4th
4th WEEK. 4th
THE POPULARITY
of
MISS CARRIE SWAIN
MISS CARRIE SWAIN
UN DIMINISHED.
UNDIMINISHED.
THE THEATRE STILL
CROWDED TO THE FOUR WALLS.
Admission —os., 3s , 25., Is
Box plan at Nicholson’s.
MONTY BROWN,
Business Manager.
V. R.
050 IN PRIZES. PLEASURE AND PROFIT
COMBINED.
The best way to spend a winter's evening in
innocent amusement combining profit with plea-
sure, is to compete in the great WORD COM-
PETITION. and endeavour to obtain one of the
Ten Valuable Prizes offered to the persons who
can make the greatest number of words out of the
word RHEINGOLDS.
The prizes are as follows Ist, £l5 ; 2nd, £lO ;
3rd, £5 ; 4th, £4 10s,; sth, £4 ; 6ch, £3 10s ; 7th
£3 ; Bth, £2 10s.; 9th, £2 ; 10th, £l.
Anyone, old or young, can compete.
The lists will be examined publicly by an in
fluential committee of Leading Citizens of Sydney
on the 24th MAY, 1887, when Prize Winners’
names will be announced, a"d ihey will be pub-
lished in all Sydney Papers on firet issue after
date of examination.
All lists of Words to be sent by post, accom-
panied by Twelve Stamps, and an addressed
envelope, when they will be acknowledged by
return of Post.
All lists to be addressed to Mr. H. BENNETT,
No. 11 Park-street, Sydney.
Note —In composing a word no letter must be
used more than once.
T
Department of Publlo Works,
Sydney, May 3, 1887.
ENDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are Invited for the following PL BLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of whioh Is kept at
every post-office in the oolony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten
ders are opened, and the name of the successfu
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken Into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly compiled with
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Please say that you saw this in
The Bulletin.
WE WILL SELL TO YOU 10,000
ARTICLES DURING THIS SEASON
AT SUCH REASONABLE RATES
THAT WK WILL ECLIP-E ALL
PREVIOUS EFFORTS.
A visit requested.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
211. Pitt-street.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXAXXXX
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
OK4
0
PATENT
LLS
PI
sK
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain
in the 6tomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &c. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
done it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, ana
they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEECH AM’S
PILES for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the system. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy ef the human
frame. These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society j and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM'S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, TE heezing, &e., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labauring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Boa
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give nlmost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troul >!ed
with any of the above complaints give Beecham s
Cough Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be
removed. _ .. ...
Caltioh.—The public are requested to notice that
the words “ Beecham’s Pills, St. Helens.” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepareonly and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. 1 i'l. and 2s. 9d.
each.—Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
c°
MPETITIVE DESIGNS
PROPOSED BUILDINGS
In
Collins Street West,
For
Mr. C. H. JAMES.
The following prizes have been awarded
by the Judges:
First Prize, £l5O,
Mr. T. J. CROUCH, 75 Chancery lane.
Second Prize. £lOO,
Messrs. REED, HENDERSON, and SMART,
Elizabeth street.
Third Prize, £5O,
Mr. A, C. D’EBRO, St. James’s-buildings.
Unsuccessful Competitors can Obtain their Plans
on application at 14 Market-buildings, Collin 8
street west.
E
VERYBODY \PFMUT T’ Q
SHOULD USE/ I JCi ill Ll Ll L io
EXTRA SUPERFINE
PLOUB!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
881 Georbe-rtbeet. Sydney,
CORRESPONDENCE
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MSS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible (or the preservation or transmission of such
MSS
“ Fairplay ” : Ask us a sensible question
“ S.S.”: He is the sort of man who would only leave the
country because he couldn’t take it with him ..“Slide
Valve”: To say that a man went to England to borrow
money might be to libel him “ Rideus ” (Inverell): Most
unprofessional, but hardly worth notice.. .“Old Swaddy ” :
1. Ihe Viet ria Cross is not always handed to him who gains
it by the Queen herself ; it is often presented by an officer of
rank. 2. The Cross is made of bronze...." C. James ” (Armi-
dale, N.S.W.): If people join churches and make profes-
sions of faith, we suppose they must act up to the conditions
or else abide by the penalties. The matter is a very simple one.
..“ Au Revoir" : Yours will appear shortly. But pray don’t
talk of vulgarity. Were we t > print verbatim a certain letter
sent us by y,u ostensibly as a sample of culture, you’d
have good reason for blushing to death “ Spondulix ”
(Maryborough): Thanks. We have often noticed that
“ Woman ” is a favourite subject for Y.M C.A. lectures, and
the lecturers seem to know an awful lot about her, too
“Francis W.": You must be dense “ Peanuckle’
(Bathurst): We ’ave halready ’eard of the ’og. ..“Tas-
manian Working Man ” (Hobait): We regret to say that all
your items are suffering from senile debility. There is not
one of them that is not tottering with age .. ‘AR ” :
Thanks—“ Goondiwicdi ”: To hand “No Name” (No-
where): You don't seem to have sent any addrfss, but per-
haps you’ll recognise yourfelf when we quote one verse:
“ Drink till you bray like any ass,
And lie where ones you stood :
Drink while your hand can hold a glass,
’Tup for your country's good.”
Rather nice verse with a reckless, happylujah ring about it,
but what does it mean? “G. Trickett We are sorry,
but you give credit to a minor at your own risk. .“P.R”: Don t
make any mistake— the Irish peasantry are a lot more moral
than the Irish “ aristocracy. ’....“ W.R.’’ : Lord Randolph
Churchill is “ only a lord by courtesy,” simply because he is not
a peer but merely the younger ronof a duke “ C.J.": Non-
sense.. “ Trades Unionist”: You rant too much; your earnest-
ness takes the form of stage-thunder “Balmain": Yes,
The “ Roll Call” was bought for the N.S.W. Gallery as the
original picture. When, by an accident, it was found that
it was only a replica, it was returned to the vendor....
“ M M.": Yes, Queen Victoria is deeply Borry for the widows
and children of the Bulli miners. So far, she is sorry
for them to the extent of a “collect” cablegram....
“ Wellwisher” (Albury): Will attend “ Au Revoir”: Your
letter doesn’t approach the question....“ A Colonift ” (Pitt-
street): Thanks ! “ Electric Telegraph”: Not in touch, and
your verses want point or application “ Aesthetic Sparks”
Much too florid "Not Ingoldsby”: Should think not;
after him, though—leagues after “ W. Fincher” (Coburg):
Your verses are worthy the subject—r ot beyond it, by any
means....“ Employee" Thanks “Hilleh L.”: Offender
not worth powder and 5h0t...." Labour” (Balmain): You
don’t seem to understand that the principle of taxation on
the ground-rent value of laud is equivalent to land nationali-
zation. A man might own a continent without injuring any-
body if he were obliged to pay taxes upon it up to its real
value if put to its fullest use “A Patent Lift ”: We abso-
lutely deny that there is a single shred of satisfactory evi-
dence to the effect that Stanley exhibited the heroism with
which he has been so generally credited. The facts which,
since the trial, have come out regarding several of the
witnesses for the prosecution invests the whole case with the
gravest suspicion “Toady Tomsit”: The horrible rumours
so extensively circulated in private (as distinguished from
the revelations made io Court) re the case have absolutely no
foundation in fact. We have read the whole of the official
evidence,...“Charles Maxwell”: Nex 1 : week “ W.P.F.’
(Melb. y. Much obliged; will reprint —“ C.M ” (Ade-
laide): Thanks “Charles Richards”: Will consider
“J. Scudmore” : You forget that the man whose only capi-
tal is the labour of his own hands is not much benefited by
“cheap Freetnde goods,” if Freetrade, at the same time
deprives him of employment, and, consequently, of the
money to spend. To the artisan, work means life, an I idle-
ness means to the capitalifct, Protection m ly mean
loss, and Freetrade unrestricted luxury at the expense of the
toiler. “ Po-zh," said the Irishman, “ I could buy more in
the old country for sixpence than I can get here for ten shil-
lings ’’ “Then why did you leave Ireland, Pat?” “Be-
cause when I was in Ireland I couldn’t get the sixpence.” A
man doesn’t so much want extremely cheap goods as he
wants constant employment.... “Subscriber’ (Donald) : It
is cheering to come across a fresh country intellect like
yours now and then, but we don’t feel disposed to give your
auctioneering friend a free “ ad.” all the same....“ Navvy”
(Oxford) : Singularly cute, But we didn’t observe the joke,
and now, unluckily, the subject is as stale as D. Buchanan
“PS.P.” : But doesn’t it strike you as rather curious
that The Times accused Parnell on the very eve of the di-
vision on the first reading of the Coercion Bill?... .“A.B.C ":
Glad to hear from you “ Lance ’ : Look in “T.J.H.":
Will ponder over it.... “ E.S.S.”: Thanks. The Army and
Gazette paragraph ve the conditio a of the British
warships on the Australian station was taken from The
Bulletin and re copied, as usual, by the Sydney D.T.
Viscount Strangford died on board the
Lusitania during her recent voyage to Australia.
There is nothing in a name now-a days.
Henry Whe has been elected an alderman of
Kogarah, N.S.W.
There is at Redfern, Sydney, a man who,
though he gets hio living by street-sweeping, has
,£15,000 at his credit in the bank.
Presumably out of compliment to a cer"
tain Australian delegate to the Imperial Con
ferenee —a gentleman who never can put his boots
on in the morning until he has had seven whiskies
—an International Congress on Inebriety is to be
held at Westminster in July.
At a recent Melbourne fashionable wed-
ding one of the “shows” on the occasion was
the baby in arms of the bridegroom by a former
marriage. People are saying that the new
mamma might have been permitted to forget
these ready-made blessings at least during the
■ceremony.
David Buchanan howls at Wisdom for ac-
cepting a knighthood. David is quite right. But
he must be suspected of personal animus in the
matter. For upon the only occasion on which
David was ever overcome by wisdom, Wisdom
knocked him down with his fist in the lobby of
the N.S.W. Assembly.
Brennan (late of the Victorian Railway
department), the inventor of the torpedo of that
name, is not an Australian but an Irishman
■whose family have lived some years in Victoria.
His father was a water-colour artist, who |
carried on business as a photographer in Bruns-
wick-street, Fitzroy, Melbourne ; and one of his
brothers, also an artist, died in Rome just when
making his way to fame The whole family are
talented.
The N.S.W. Chief Justice has decided
that a publican must not score up drinks against
his cook, and then dock the amount spent in
quenching the lady’s thirst from her wages. This
decision arose through the conduct of one Bill
Jones, of Hay, who claimed that Jane Rodericks
had swallowed £6 worth of exhilarating fluids on
tick. Plain Publichouse Bill held that Jane
ranked as a lodger, and the Chief Justice de-
scribed his defence as disgraceful. Of course it
was. Our slavey, for instance, is not a lodger—
she’s always out. But, by the shade of Parkes’
Mutual Insurance company, she is a boarder .
Ra ther !
The following Jubilee notice in the Sydney
D.T. stamps the author as a true, honest, and
loyal Christian, a philanthropist, and a man who
wouldn’t under any provocation elope with the
cash :
JUBILEE YEAR.—Send date and month of birth,
Is. stamps, stamped envelope for reply, toH.Y.,
Box 638, G.P.0., and POUND NOTE will ba sent if
birthday, is same as mine. Successful competitors sent
to all, May 10.”
The odds in favour of this Jubilee three-card man,
it will be observed, are exactly 365 to 1, and in
addition if things should become too hot he can
shift his birthday. Also he may never have had
any birthday at all—he may have been found on
a doorstep. Or, again, he may have been born on
the 29th of February, and may consequently have
a birthday only once in four years. Also, there is
no positive proof available that he is a man at all
—he may be a dog. Anybody who thinks of send-
ing a shilling on the off-chance that he may have
been born on the same day as a nameless indivi-
dual who advertises in the D.T. and lives in a
box at the Post-Office, should take these points
into consideration.
WHAT IS IT?
We have published in our columns from time
to time different advertisements in regard to
Bright’s Disease and its cures.
What is this terrible disease !
We have taken the trouble to make an investi-
gation from the best sources and we give the
results to our readers.
What astonishes us is the general indifference
given to kidney disorders. The kidneys do not
sound the alarm of their diseased condition,
owing to the fact that they have very few nerves,
hence few suspect that there is any disease in
them Irritation, inflammation, ulceration set
in, and then the little tubes, of which the kidneys
are full, are destroyed and thrown off, and from
this fact are called tube casts.
As soon as this begins to take place it is onl y a
question of how fast decomposition goes on before
the disfase results fatally. If the proper remedies
are taken before final decomposition or waste of
these tubes commences or becomes too far ad-
vanced, that is the only and last chance for relief.
It is at this point or before that Warner’s safe cure
proves so beneficial, and may cure or stop the
wasting away of the kidneys if it has not advanced
too far.
The most remarkable thing of all our investiga-
tion is the fact that the patient with Bright’s
disease has no exclusive symptoms, but has the
symptoms of every common disease.
First he may possibly feel a dull pain in his
back, generally upon one side, which does not
debar him from his usual business routine. After
a time he may begin to feel neuralgic pains, or
have a slight attack of what he may call rheu-
matism, or headache, with high or dark colored
urine, with an unpleasant sensation in its passage,
and after standing showing an annatural condi-
tion. Later on, come tired feelings, loss of
ambition or vigor, or loss of or failing eyesight,
which is very common, with a distressed condi-
tion of the stomach. Any one of these symptoms
is liable to occur.
This no doubt accounts for the proprietors of
Warner s safe cure curing so many diseases. By
regulating and building up the kidneys, symptoms
of general ill-health disappear They justly
accuse the medical profession of treating the
effects and not the cause. Finally if this disorder
is neglected the patient either dies of apoplexy,
pneumonia, heart disease, blood poison, con-
sumption, or any other disease that the system is
most subject to.


JjIATHER TO SON.
“ My son,” the father wisely said,
And sagely wagged his aged head,
“ When’er amid your daily work
You see a man who'll always shirk
The labor that he ought to do ;
Who drinks, and drinks quite often, too ;
Who’s failed in business ten times o’er,
Who’s apt to fail some ten times more ;
Who gambles, and most freely bets,
But newer pays his hone3t debts —
Why, take no note of him.”
“ But when you meet an honest man
You should adopt a different plan ;
Take note of all that's good you see,
Ignore whate’er may doubtful be ;
Copy the best and shun the worst,
By greed of gold be not accurst;
Make your own life a sample fair,
In Truth’s behalf do all man dare ;
Your living earn by honest toil,
And use St. Jacob's conquering oil—
Till all take note of you.”
rjIHS UNICoRN AND THE ROCKET.
An incident which has not yet appeared in any
of the papers, owing to the bishfulneos of the
principal actor therein, occurcd some few even-
ings ago in one of the most picturesque townships
in New South Wa’es. “The Charm of the
Desert” Lodge of the Brethren of the Pre-Adamite
Order of Unicorns organised a series of gambols
in aid of the Bulli Relief Fund, and of course
achieved a brilliant success, both socially and
commercially. They had a bazaar, a procession,
a prayer meeting, a spelling be s, a concert, and
alas 1 some fireworks. It was in connection with
the latter that the trouble which has temporarily
deranged one enthusiastic Unicorn occured. As
an amateur pyrotechnist, he was covering him-
self with glory and blue-fire, when a malignant
rocket exploded behind him, and as he sat
hurriedly down in the effort to distract public at-
tention, the more sensitive portion of the audience
burst into tears. What he said on the impulse of
the moment had no effect on the rocket, and but
slight reference to the traditions of the order.
Other Unicorns picked him up and removed him
as gracefully as possible from the scene. St.
Jacobs oil was promptly and freely applied, with
the result that his sufferings were speedily
alleviated, and its continuous use has now almost
made him forget the occurence. But if anyone
says “rocket” suddenly in his hearing, he
hurriedly grasp 3 his tailor's latest effort and
says “Bring the St. Jacobs oil bottle quick be-
fore I’m a cripple.”
DON
O U
T.
You really do not know how delicious a pudd-
ing it is possible to make out of Cornflour manu-
factured by C. Gilbert, from maize specially
grown for the purpose at Buffalo, N. Y., and
Desmoines, lowa.
Purchasers should lee that the correc. brand is
on each packet as there are numerous imitations
in the market. The genuine can be obtained in
Sydney from Messrs. D. Mitchell and Co., G.
Griffiths and Co., Mason Bros, and Co. (limited),
Barlow and Co., T. H. mate and Co., Robert
Miller and Co., Cramsie, Bowden, and Arthur,
Slocombe Bros., Tillock and Co., and F. Butcher.
WATERBURY MEMO.
The price of the genuine Waterbury Watch is
13s. 6d. If you buy one for less money in Ihe
belief that you are getting a bargain, and you
shortly after find that it requires repairs, don’t be
astonished when you make the discovery that
the repair notice refers only to the genuine
Waterbury. If anything goes wrong with the
real Waterbury Watch, which is sold only at 13s.
6d. the owner has only to take <sr send it to the
offices of the Waterbury Watch Company, at 56,
Margaret street, where it can be repaired at a
cost according to its requirements, but in no case
exceeding 2s. 6d. unless by mutual consent.
The cost of transmission by post or parcel
delivery on watches sent from the country must
be prepaid, and a sufficient amount to cover re-
turn charges and cost of repair forwarded at the
same time. If sent in the box in which the
Waterbury is sold, the postage tea (including
registration) is 2s. each way,
JJURE MALT AND HOPS.
PERFECTION OF MACHINERY,
HIGH-CLASS, SKILLED LABOR,
WATCHFUL SUPERVISION.
AND SCIETIFIC KNOWLEDGE
Are all combined in the production of Clausen’s
New York Champagne Lager Beer. This special
description ef Lager is manufactured exclusively
by the Clausens at their enormous brewery in
Second Avenue, New York, and it is the beer
which took the First Prize at the Centennial
Exhibition from eighteen competitors.
NO DRUGS OR CHEMICALS
Are used to preserve this Beer in the beautifully
* ‘ Live ” condition which has made it so popular
all over the world. Tbe secret of this is simply
its absolute purity and the perfection of the cork-
ing process, which was invented by Dr. Pasteur,
of Paris, and has the effect of destroying all yeast
particles and permanently preserving the bright-
ness of the beer.
CLAUSEN’S NEW YORK CHAMPAGNE
LAGER BEER.
Evokes no unpleasant memories of a buried past.
Excites no feelings antagonistic to the welfare of
the human race. Suggests nothing but Peace,
Health, Happiness, Comfort, and Prosperity.
One of the best managed and cleanest hotels in Sydney is
the Great Northern, corner Charlotte Place and George-
atreet. Having been thoroughly renovated, Travellers will
find i'> the cosiest place in Sydney. The shilling luncheon
therv is immense.
NOTICK !—Beware of young Wine. Drink only Hockings’
high class sele.tei old vintages, for iavalids. 143 Pitt-
g’rec-t.*
TATTERS ALLS MONSTER CONSULTATION BIRTH-
DAY CUP. 2000 Subscribers, 20s. each. Run May 24th;
also, WINTER STAKES. 200 Subscribers 20s each. Run
June 4’h. Ut Horse £1000: 2nd, £3OO : 3rd, £2OO. Starters,
£250: non starters, £250, to te divided amongst them Apply
to •* TA’i TERSALL,” cere cf Geo. Adams, Tattersall’s
Hotel, J’itt-a’reet. (.fly. Note— lleas; register your letter
to ensure safe dr lively; also, < nclote two addressed stamped
envelopes, cne for reply and the oth r for result cf the
drawing. 4
HOLTS RELEASE RECOMMENDED.
How about the poor fellow who was sent te
gaol for ten years! Do any of the Ministers of
Justice call upon him with the same sympathy?
Echo answers, “ No.’ One was a banker, and the
other only one of the common people—one has
influence, the other not any. The way of the
world. Ye 3; the bigger the rogue the less is the
crime. Taking £4OOO is called a case of genius ;
£2OOB, shortage ; £lOOO, litigation ; £5OO, insol-
vency ; £3OO irregularity; £lOO, corruption; £5O,
embezzlement; £25, dishonesty ; £lO, thieving ;
205., total depravity. Taking one bottle of the
famous St. Louis Lager Beer, war on society.*
Cockroaches. Bugs, and all other insects
destroyed by Mitchell’s Insect powder. 6d., Is.
Is. 6d. Higney, 141 King-street.*
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS.
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF WINTER GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prices.
STOP RIGHT HERB!
JOY FOR EVER!
CONSIDER THIS.
An Autophone costs but 30s. ar.d is a joy for ever
The Autophone is a wonderful little instrument
which, while it weighs less than three pounds has
the lungs of a full sized parlor organ, and executes
its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect. It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three
keys, and all the pai ts of most difficult music. On
it a child can correctly play, without instruction,
any of its music, wnich at present consists of over
300 selections from hymns, oratorios, operas,
waltzes, polkas, marches, popular songs, &o. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, but also has wonderful power in exe-
cuting very lively pieces. tW It is pitched far the
voice, and has a little card holder for convenience
in singing. It is entirely well adapted for country
churches, Sunday schools, the family circle, and
also for dancing. The music is compact, and far
cheaper than that which is made for any organette.
The Autophone is like every other good thing, the
longer you have it the better you like it, and as
new music is being published every week it hew an
end'ess fund of amusement in it.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Three tunes given in with each instrument.
Additional tunes per last mail. Send for Cata-
logue. Extra music sent on receipt of price.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand :
ORIENTAL GOLD CO., No. 12 POMEROY
CHAMBERS, CASTLEREAGH-ST., SYDNEY.
WATCHES.
The Elgin National Watch Co.’s Watches are
the best in the world. Read this :
“ Elgin National Watch Co., Chicago,
“ Gentlemen, —It gives me pleasure to state
that the performance of the Watch manufactured
by you, and marked ‘ B. W. Raymond No. 19,201,’
which I have carried in my pocket for a period of
six months, surpasses in excellence that of any o.
the fine watches I have hitherto tested. It main-
tains its rate even better than a fine box chrono-
meter by Negus, belonging to this observatory.
I have intended, when I shall have leisure, to
make a complete test of the isochronism of the
balance for poise and temperature. So far as I
can judge by the performance of the watch, these
adjustments appear to be nearly perfect.
“ Permit me to congratulate you upon the
successful manufacture of watches which are
equal in performance to the pocket chronometers
by Jurgensen, Fordsham, and other celebrated
European makers.
“JAMES C. WATSON,
“Astronomer,
“ Observatory, Ann Arber.
January 28, 1870."
Remember each and every watch manufactured
by The Elgin Watch Company is a Patent Lever
with compensating-balance. No horizontal or other
inferior movements.
If three pounds is more than you can afford we
meet you by reducing the price of the case. We
can’t and won’t sell you a debased movement.
The Elgin Company does not make such things.
Noth. The Elgin Watch Company states. Ore
silver is a new white metal, manufactured and
controlled by ourselves exclusively. These cases
are to all appearance and in wearing qualities the
equal of silver.
Hunting case, ore silver, stem winding
patent lever, with compensating
balance, jewelled in 7 holes ... £2 10 0
Do. do. (key winder) ... ... £2 0 0
Elgin National Watch Co.’sKeywinding
Patent Lever, in solid silver patent
dust-band case, with compensating
balance, patent pinion, 7 fine jewels,
open face £3 0 0
Same Watch in hunting case ... £? ’ 0 0
Stem-winding (Keyless) Elgin N. W.
Co.’s compensating-balance, patent-
lever, open crystal face, in solid
silver dust-band case, with 11 fine
ruby jewels, pitent pinion, &o. ... £3 6 0
Same Watch, in hunting-case 3 15 0
Ladies superb gold lever watch mag-
nificently engraved hunting case ex-
quisite jewelled movement. No better
in the world ... ... ... ... £lO 0 0
We have not space here for further detailed
quotations. We can, however, offer silver-cased
watches at ascending prices up to the finest in the
world at £lO 0 0
OR FOR A FEW SHILLINGS
ORIENTAL GOLD JEWELLERY.
HU TT7 AT 11 ti# latest tritmpn of
UavIuJLN X All Science. It is & noble
HH T ali ° 7, 5 0S55S "'”2 tie «»ot lustre, beauty
VsTvXdX* and endurance of sterling Sell. A legi-
timate use has been found for this noble metal, by
working it into Jewellery of the most exquisite de-
signs. The Oriental Gold Co.,
has
large consignments of these lovely goods, which they
sell at a fraction of the cost of Sterling Sold Jewellery.
No one can detect the difference. Send for a
Priced Catalogue, orfbr one of the fol-
lowing samples, all of Oriental Sold—
Brooches.Ss.; Jewelled (Parisian
Brilliants) Brooch, 7s. 6d.; Gent’s
Albert, Vs. 6d.j Pair Earrings,
Plain 55., Jewelled,7s.6d.; Locket
55., Jewelled-, lOs.; Ladies’ Alberts
15s. P. 0.0. payable Oriental Gold
Co.
ggj”We send theseon approval. If they don’t
please, return uninjured by the First
Hail, and ue repay the cash,less postage.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
12 POMEROY CHAMBERS,
CJASTLEREAGH STREET.
tTuta'i • lent nny where by post,
A point of law. Is horse-sweating or
soldiering equivalent to horse-stealing? A man
rides a horse from a pub. in a drunken fit and is
arrested for horse-stealing. The police (Castle
reagh) force the owner to prosecute. Conviction
and sentence. N. B.—Both owner and sweater
are working-men. Case No. 2. A gentleman
takes a boy’s mare and rides her 70 miles on Good
Friday. On his return no apology is offered but
the statement th»t he mistook her for his own
gelding. The police did not insist on a prosecu-
tion, as the sweatsr in this case is brother to a
member of the Municipal Council.
AND THESE ARE THE CREATURES WHO ARE SHRIEKING FOR
SUFFRAGE.
SHE: “MY DEAR, I SEE BY THIS PAPER THAT THE GOVERNMENT ARE GOING
TO ISSUE DEBENTURES TO RESTORE THE EQUILIBRIUM. NOW, WHAT
DOES THAT MEAN?"
HE: “WELL. MY DEAR, IT’S LIKE THIS. YOU SEE YOU GO AND RUN UP A BILL
AT FRIPPKR AND CO’S WHICH I AM NOT ABLE TO PAY, I LOSE MY
‘EQUILIBRIUM.’”
SHE: “YES, INDEED, YOU DO—AND SWEAR DREADFULLY.”
HE: “JUST SO. WELL, I GIVE FRIPPER AND CO. A BILL OF SALE ON MY HOUSE
OR PROPERTY.”
SHE: “BUT, SUPPOSING YOU HAD NO HOUSE OR PROPERTY!”
HE: “WELL, I SUPPOSE IN THAT CASE, FRIPPER AND CO. WOULD DO THE
SWEARING!”
Mr. Ormond, M.H.R., of N.Z., is a bland
gentl man who, in his quieter moods, is as beauti-
ful as a soap-advertisement, but when roused he
is a mixture of gall, wormwood, frenzy, mad-dog,
and cheek. He was making a speech the other
day at Napier, and kept alluding to the eminent,
short-haired man who bosses the colony as “ Mr.
.Stout,” until the Chairman began to look uneasy
and took to shovelling his feet away under his
chair in a flurried sort of manner as if he yvanted
to say something. Then the plebeian designation
would be repeated and the chairman would bowl
his feet out again and stretch them in front of
him as if he had never teen them before. At
last, however, some kindly ii dividual pointed out
to Mr. Ormond that he should say “ Sir Wobert”
instead of plain‘ Mr. Stout,” and after he had
to'tered two or three times the speaker admitted
the mistake and apologised. “ But you see, ’he
added, “it is ju»t a year since he said that he
would consider such a title a disgrace, so I very
naturally forgot it.”
Professor Tucker, the Melbourne savant
who touched up the Aulularia of Plautus for his
University pupils, has been bewailing the decad-
ence of oratory. As the public utterances of
Demos* henes, and other of Tucker’s pets, were
not taken down in shorthand, we must respectfully
doubt the genuineness of the speeches accredited
to them. And, even allowing that Demosthenes
was all that is believed, it must still be admitted
that Jawbone Neild can beat him for staying
power. Even little Mirams, of Melbourne, could
be baeked against the Greek in a six-days’ go-as-
you please chin struggle.
Now-a-days, when a fellow is stone-broke
in Queensland he borrows half a sovereign, gets
a piece of likely looking stone, rubs the coin over
it here and there, places a few more pieces so
treated on a ridge, and he has found a gold-mine.
A company is floated, and our stone-broke fiiend
clears out with a million or two. leaving the other
fellows to be “ stone " broke. Apropos, the other
day, out North, a certain individual who cannot
work and to beg is all but ashamed, rubbed a
threepenny bit over a piece of stone till it looked
a regular little silver mine. He brought it into
town and showed it to the boss butcher, who, not
being a mining expert, at once offered him £5O if
he would tell him the spot where it was found.
This he did, pocketed the dollars, and cleared.
Just now the boss butcher is sharpening his bowie-
knife on the heel of his boot.


A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL.
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something gtod on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, ip you miss Foley’s you
HAVE NOT SEEN THE CITY.
Notice to Visitors to the American Exhibition
of ISB7.
50,592 English Miles have been covered since Oct. 11, 1880, by
TIHIE “WONDER”COACH 3
which last season'earried 1978 passengers in perfect safety.
Dr. Rumney (of “Ridge's Food" fame) will, to prevent
disapaointment to American and Coloniil visitors, again run
his celebrated six-horse Stage Coacb, THE “WONDER,"
between London and St. Alban*, leaving Hatchett’s Hotel,
in Piccadilly, London, every morning at 10.45, returi ing to
Piccadilly at 6.15 p.m.
Ample time is al!owcd at St. Albans for lunch and for
passengers to inspect the CATHEDRAL, which is one of the
FIN* ST and OLDEST IN THE WORLD.
The trip is one of the most delightful that can be taken
and the price charged for the return fare is 20a.
For time Cards and other Part to “ WONDER
oach Office, Hatchett’s Hotel, Piccadi ly, London, England
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Haye always In STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
. < *ORIN and CO.'S
Cognao.
.. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
High-class Dentistry | at Reform Prices.
ARTIFICIALTEETH
CO*SJ£*ET
E
V(7 * w **j
MARSHALL BRO:
! DENTISTS
133 ELI Z ABETH ST
Teeth painlessly extracted under nitrous oxide
gas, daily at 11.
WANTFn to sell the Pictorial Historj
ii nil ill) 0( the world. The besl
and fastest selling book ever published.
The work embraces full and authentic accounts
of every nation of ancient and modem times
including the Rise and Fall of the Groek and
Roman Empires, &c., &c.
Send for descriptive circulars, and full particu
lars, NATIONAL PUBLISHING COMPANY.
367 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
S. F. PBIDDY & GO.
Having purchased Bankrupt Stock of
HATS,
AT
ONE-THIRD OF USUAL COST,
are now retailing them
BELOW ENGLISH COST.
Special Lines :
English Zephyr Felts, at 7/6
usually 9/- to 12/6
Eo, Do. Do. at 5/6
Usually 7/6 to 9/-
At our two Establishments,
438 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Lassetter’s,
AND
662 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL.
A CHILDREN’S FANCY FAIR
Will be Opened by the Lady Mayoress
In aid of the Children’s Ward of the
PRINCE ALFRED HOSPITAL,
at
THE LAWN, PROSPECT ROAD,
SUMMER HILL,
On FRIDAY and SATURDAY, May 6 and 7.
Admission, 6d.; Children, 3d, Open from 2 to
s . and from 7 to 10 p.m.”
CONSULT Dr. THOMAS for the best and
safest treatment of Nervous Debility and
Skin Diseases. The Doctor has passed his degrees
at the Royal College of Physicians and the Royal
College of Surgeons, England. Consulting
Rooms, 203 Elizabeth-street. Hours: 9 till 9
daily.
To Weak, Nervous Invalids, and others
seeking Health and Strength.
DR. RICHARDS,{^ic.i x .°Kn gl a« l .
DESIRES to publicly announce that he has
permanently established himself in Sydney,
and may in future he consulted at his rooms, No.
7 Spring Street, FREE OF CHARGE, by that
increasingly large class of sufferers whose nervous
complaints can only be competently dealt with by
an experienced specialist. I Cure every case un-
dertaken. When I say I cure. Ido not merely
stop them for a time and then have them return
again, I mean a radical cure. I have made those
ailments, which are the result of negligence, a
xife-long study, and can safely warrant a cure
after personal consultation. Carelessness in many
cases has brought about a state of weakness that
has reduced the general system so ranch as to in-
duce almost every other disease, and the real
cause of this scarely ever being suspected, people
have been doctored for everything but the right
one. Notwithstanding the many valuable remedies
that medical science has produced for the relief of
this class of patients, none of the ordinary modes
of treatment effect a cure. During my extensive
hospital and private practice in England, I have
discovered new and concentrated remedies, and
with the use of my extensive Oalvdnic Appliances,
am in a position to guarantee a cure in every case
undertaken. Consultation .osts nothing, and I
will tell you at once whether your case is curable
or not.
DR. RICHARDS, M.R.0.5., England,
7 SPRING STREET (eff Pitt-st., Sydney.
DR. O’CONNELL has Remover front his old
quarters, Opposite, and has been compelled
owing to his health and age t. alter his hours of
consultation to 10 a.m. till 2.80 p.ra. daily;
Saturdays, 10 a.m. till noon ; no consultation on
Sundays or holidays. Dr. O’Connell needs no
.dvertising, as all of his patients who have con-
jlted him, and have been cured of lost vigour,
health, and vitality, will make it known to their
friends, who can write and be cured.
Address—
Dr. J. O’CONNELL,
57 CaSTLEREAGH STREET,
Sydney.
IMPERIAL HOTEL, Brisbane,
THE above has been known for some years as
being the oldest family and squatting hotel
in Queensland. There is a large drawing-room
exclusively for ladies, without extra charge.
Amongst other additions- lift and flre-nroof stair-
case, invaluable acquisition to hotels. First-claw
Chef, can in a very superior style. Electric
bells every room. Suite of rooms for families.
Hot and cold baths every floor. Large banqueting
room.
C. H. DANIELLS, Proprietor.
Sample room.
QEMENT, “LIGHTHOUSE BRAND,”
Manufactured by the
LONDON PORTLAND CEMENT COMPANY,
LIMITED,
Successors to the original Firms of
J. G. GOsTLING and Co,, and GOSTLING and Co.,
• LIMITED.
And the SOLE PROPRIETORS
Of Their “ Marks,”
D. F. WATSON, 51 Chancery lane, Melbourne'
Sole Agent.
m THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O In the Savings Bank
Branch. Payable on demand. Offices, 1 Park-st
THO 3. HOLDS RNESS, Acting Manager,
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY,
BASS’ PALE ALE
SOLK PURVEYORS bo the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN KIHIRITItI,
LONDON,
Bj Special Appointment,
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES I
W. BALCHIN. JOHNSTON & CO.,
Commercial Chamber*, Bond- (treat, Iriav
The fresh food and ice company
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
No. 23 ROYAL AROADE,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Batter, Coffee, Cocoa, fca,, WIU
light refreshments,
At this Branch, orders may be left for flatly ut
by their aarte.
They have also taken over the Agency ft,
“ KOUMISS," so highly recommended In pnlmt
nary complaints.
FRESH FOOD AND lOE 00., LIMITED,
Head Offloe
Stables
Faotory
21 Harboor-ttreet,
... Llvarpool-etreet
... Mittagong,
0. H. SMITH & SON,
Manufacturers and Importers
OF
HATS and GAPS,
302 GEORGE STREET,
S Doors South of Hunter-street.
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
sarpasses all others for its lasting aud natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Medals—
PARIS, 1878, CALCUTTA, 1881,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
GOLD MEDAL BOUaTJET
ESS. BOUaUET I WOOD VIOLET
TREVOL • CHYPRE
and other well-known Perfumes are un-
equal led tor tl.eir delightful and lasting odour
ATKINSON’S EAU DE TOLETTE OE LONDRES.
\ ii>urpassed for refreshing and softening the
skin, and an exceedingly choice Perfume for
the Handkerchief. An entirely new article
prepared exclusively hy tho Inventors
Of all Dealer*, and of the Manufacturers —
J & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
k Trade Mark—“ White Rose” Oh“ Golden
Lyre.”
PROTECTION AND FREETRADE.
THE Protection UDion of N.S.W. urges every
patriot who recognises the absolute necessity
for tho adoption of a policy which will provide
employment for present and futuye generations
to subscribe to the GLOBE, and to advise his
friends to do the same, as it is the only daily
newspaper in N.S.W. which advocates such a
policy.
L. F. HEYDON President.
D. CHADWICK Secretary.
OOTS
00 TS
T. WILLIAMS & CO.,
IMPORTERS OF
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Also Manufacturers of
The Finest Quality of Goods in the above Lines. H
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
SXOH
17CREN0N
SfIMBUR®
s^o°'
tfjo oy^dw/fr/ie'.
ILLUSTRATION (In reduced alee) yt £1 Order to ba found In the
“LARGE BOTTLES" OF WOLFE'S SCHNAPPS.
B
HAD j& T, NEWTON, fc LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERa
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and C'CONNELL STREETS.
FULL SUITES for DINING-ROOM.—SIDE
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match.
IELF-\DJUBTING HAMMOCK
Patented.
CHAIR
This chair adjusts itself to any pos tion, irom
Bitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous ositions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. S 3" We can
now supply portable suspension Stands to enable
the Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with
Stand 30/-; Without Stand 25/-.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB (only).
Packing in canvas, if required 2s. 6d. extra,
Drawing room suites, Fashionably lip
holstered, at Ml prices. Bradley, NewtOD,
and Lamb.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &c. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell and
Spring Streets.
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of varl]
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ment* by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell and Spring
Streets.
Drawing room cabi.
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs,
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furnitctr* Warkhousembt,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets
a? o er pianoforte,
o&OU guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, bril ant
tone, In handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
oash only,
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
ICE
CHESTS,
all sizes,
From 375,
Bradley,
Newton.
and
Lamb.
■ jIASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed*
Jti rooms. New designs covered to order in
any material.
Self-adjusting chair and couch, for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest.
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
Bedsteads, au sines
Nickel-plated and Blaok
and Brass, Great variety.
Bedding,—All descriptions at
lowest rates.
BRADLET, NEWTON, and*
LAMB,
Importers,
O 1 Connell and Spring Streets,
SPRING MATTKAJBBKS
Woven Wire, bei
make; also, Spiral Sprint*
Price, from Us, each,
HRADLKY, NKWTON *n<l LA MR
f~i HEAP F URNIT U RK.—Pine _ Tabies7 from
Vy 13s. 6d.; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.|
Chests of Drawers, from 10s.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from A3los. | Clothes Horses, from 10s, 6<L|
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 80s.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,


“Jubilee—the Last Resource of Scoundrels.”
“The Prisoners at Parlinghurat Gaol have presented Governor Carington with a beautifully-engrossed petition (drawn in the mat-making department) praying that they
may be released on the occasion of the Queen’s Jubilee.”
