

The Bulletin
ISSOLUTION OF PARTNERSHIP
IN CONSEQUENCE OF THE ABOVE, MESSRS.
ML ST SELL AT WH AT IT WILL BRING, THE WHOLE OF THEIR
SIVE AND WELL-SELECTED STOCK OF
PRICES ONE-HALF OF MANUFACTURERS” COST!
(§& A .'. . . . ; ' ' - • -V • - ■
COMMENCING ON
COMMENCING ON
TODAY, Ist AUGUST, 1887,
'
C!qn.ts. Ya-U-laa. g* Vl.33.tii JkLCCOVLTVfc 3 .StX'e Clcsc d_ .
Is
r
e is Genuine, We want money, and must have it, to close the partnership.
JSTOTE THE ADDRESS :
WILLIAMS and GO., 278 George Street
(OPPOSITE MARGARET STREET) ;
WILLIAMS and CO., 412 George Street
(NEAR ROYAL HOTEL)


yxrn&Tvnn.mm*mmsmsm&-.. _
m
W.H.PALING&G”™
356 GEORGE ST SYDNEY.
fIAiO.ORGANfIUSIC IMPORTERS.
... f
jnOlreatestYarietym Australis— •ftvtn| the
buMk-tbe «fi3« impossible «fkjice?> PIANOS from £l2-
* o*v*wr«r* w iVnutim/ *wgrAtW£NTS ?0 SUIT Alt CUSTOMERS
fc<s PJUI*NG&&
PAYMStff BY MWr*UY
liTTflf
r
vmrrnin
H»tMWi<>»nviTrTffnr l nriTr l Ti< l
toss
Coi*e*Sr*»Pi
Trcacu
ftfrmfps
* srD Q : £JP
iMßEinmin
mu> Office t factory. Mcwtqwh
Branch. Cearci SI Sumer
THE AUSTRALIAN
LOAN, DISCOUNT AND FINAN-
CIAL COMPANY,
, Lifted.
SF*.
HEAD OFFICE =
CORNER OF MARKET AND YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
INCORPORATED, JUNE, 1888.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO STERLING.
RESERVE, £31,661 4s. STERLING.
BHE AUSTRALIAN LOAN, DISCOUN AND FINAN-
CIAL COMPANY, Limited,
transact all usual Banking Business. Current Accounts
opened. Drafts issued, Bills Discounted, and Advance upon
all kinds of Commercial Securities.
OVERDRAFTS GRANTED AGAINST DEPOSITS
OF DEEDS.
Deposits Received
AND
Interest Allowed
At Call, 4£ per cent,
3 Months, 6 per cent.
6 Months, 7 per cent.
12 Months, 8 per Cent.
WITH BONUS ADDITIONS TO DEPOSITS OF
SIX AND TWELVE MONTHS.
Depositors can arrange to withdraw the whole or portion
Of their deposits, without notice, and will be allowed current
interest for the period of deposit.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
H. M‘NAMARA,
SECRETARY.
CAUTION.
THE UNITED HORSE-SHOE & NAIL CO., Lmd.
CUSTOMERS of the Uuited Horse Shoe aud
Nail Company are cautioned against pur-
chasing a spurious nail, made in imitation of the
“Globe” nails, and which are exported from
Germany.
The nails in question are made of inferior metal,
and are not so well finished as those of The United
Horse-shoe and Nail Company, Limited.
All boxes of The United Company are branded
U.H-S. and N. Co., and customers should take
care that they get the boxes so marked.
By order.
R. 8. HAZEON, Secretary.
115 Caunon-etreet, London, E.C.,
June, 1887.
w
LLS’ HOTEL, Mackay, Queensland.
EDMUND DUNNOCK, Proprietor.
Travellers and Families will find the old well-
known reputation maintained. -
JMPERIAL HOTEL, TOWNSVILLE.
Proprietress, SARAH EATON,
late of Muswellbrook and Rockhampton.
tar First-class Family and Commercial Hotel,
Masonic hotel, east-street, Rock-
hampton.-t. MURPHY, Proprietor.
Wayside Gleanings:— The “Western Cham-
pion” says : “I can recommend the Rockhampton
Masonic to my western friends."
LEICHHARDT HOTEL,
ROCKHAMPTON.
Proprietress—Mrs. J. GIBBS.
(Late of Westport,)
Palace Family Hotel,
Corner of Stanley and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
First-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments.
Admitted the coolest and best ventilated
house in the city.
DAVID LYONS, Proprietor.
JgIXCELSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated comer of Gill and Church-streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
0 WINEGROWERS AND OTHERS
G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE CASKS, 350 to 100 gallons |
also,
Rum Sherry and Whisky PUNCHED! 8.
Hogsheads, Quarter casks, Spirit Kegs iron?
garths and upwards.
COOPERAGE,
§7 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET
Between King and Market streets.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To a,' Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tic-
Dcloreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAMS RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give Instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change In diet
necessary I In Bottles, la., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE FOB BLIGHT
ROSE’S CELEBBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
Its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared bjr the Bole Proprietor,
fl. L IOBS, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
681 G®o*?gd-otre«fc only.
Please Do Not Read This!!
IT DOES NOT CONCERN YOU.
THERE is no excuse for any person of either
sex suffering from those unsightly disfigure-
ments of the Face, Neck, or Skin, caused by
Pimples, Freckles, Moles, Warts, or any other
kind of skin disease, if th6y will only listen to a
few words of timely advice, and sit down at once
and write a full, clear, and explicit statement of
their case, enclosing twopenny stamps, when
they will receive a candid reply as to the length
of time that will be required to effect a cure, fee,
&c., &c. Superfluous Hair removed quickly and
painlessly. Red noses restored to normal colour.
All communications held strictly sacred and con-
fidential. Address Edward T. Hubbkll,
Dermatologist, Box 852, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S. W.
DR. O’CONNELL has removed to Edgar
House, No. 8 Bligh-street. Dr. O’Connell
does not need to advertise at all. His patients,
grateful for their cure and restored health and
vitality, and thankful for the sympathy shown to
them, and also the moderation of the charges,
advise their friends to consult and be cured.
Consultation (by person or letter) Free.
Dr, J. O’CONNELL,
Edgar House
Comer Bligh and Hunter streets,
SYDNEY.
sd
QTUDY ECONOMY
O and
Have yonr Umbrella Frame* re-
covered, and your
Paraiol* re-lined and made equa
' to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Briokfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathnrit Street*
Parasol* made to snatch oo*
Repair* neatly exeentad
f
WE can recommend the Imperial Hair-Cut-
ting Saloon as the bdsfc. in Brisbane.
Tobacco and cigars of the best brands. Address j
Temple Building, George-street, six doors from
A, COOPER, Proprietor.
DIiXSOM*SONS
TOBACCO WORKS
SYDNEY.
NEW ZEAI AND
HERBAL REMEDIES.
m testimonials;
Prom the Soudan Contingent? Hoapita
Corps; also from eminent Doctors and
s Students' from Sydney Hospital, a ~1
TAwHIAQ.
MONK'S
PI IE M IX TUBE.
F«*« 2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Aik for it and take no substitute.
It is an invaluable cure. See testimonial!.
riarMiorcTKi’s ' ; r *tgm
Oholera, Dysentery, Diantae Mliture,
A positive cure. Sold by all Chemists.
2s. 6d. per bottle.
UVEOHSTIKZ’S
NEURALGIA lIXTUPE,
2s. 6d. per bottle,
Sole Agents: / 'f-
MATHFY, NATHAN & CO.,
|2Ol PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
ANB
ii Little 'Collins Street East, Melbourne.
MINING EXCHANGE HOTEL,
GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND,
The Central Hotel. Private Sitting Room,
Rendezvous for all parties engaged in mining
business.
.) H. G. BAILES, Proprietor.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
FIRST-CLASS Accommodation for Commer-
cial Gentlemen and Families. Private sitting
rooms without extra charge. Plunge and Shower
Bath. Billiards (Alcock’s). First-class chef.
Charges strictly moderate. Wines and spirits of
the best brands, Man meets every steamer,
HANRAN, Junb., Proprietor.
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
Contracting Carriers,
FORWARDING AGENTS.
Head Office; Townsyille, N, Queensland.
G. S CURTIS,
Auctioneer & Real Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
MR. BOLTON (of the firm of Lowry and
Bolton) wishes to Inform the numerous
friends of the Firm and the travelling public that
he has gone to Mount Morgan to take charge of
the SUNBURST HOTEL, which will henceforth
be carried oh nnder his personal supervision.
Sunburst Hotel, Mount Morgan, centrally situated,
and facing the oelebrated Mountain. Persons visit-
ing the celebrated Mbuntain will flndevery oomfort
and convenience to greet them on their arrival.
BILLIARD TABLE AND PIANO ON THE
PREMISES, also STABLING for the accommoda-
tion of Thirty Horses, and a good PADDOCK
within five minutes’ walk of the Hotel. Coaches
DAILY FROM AND TO ROCKHAMPTON.
Note the Address—
MICHAEL BOLTON
(Of the Firm of Lowry & Bolton),
SUNBUR ST HOTEL
MOUNT MORGAN.
[HE
REMINGTON
TYPE-WRITER
.. ® a,e * labour, stationery, and time, writing much faster
titan expert pen-men, and condensing matter to let* than
2““!, t 00 * u * )W pen writing. Beautiful
oople# “W, be taken In the usual manner in the letter-press
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY ic GO,,
ISO Keni-abrooii,
fHIBSC
nJilrod
“TtfklJ \P\oJ
“cur.hifcWL
lOßirißKfffif
c
m
A
7
MMffFXCTUR£RS
•IMPORTERS Of
■ >!■' llni|»K» ~ i
HATS CAPS
-
438CE0RCE ST
SYDNEY
m
sssfr*i«
PLUNGE AND SHOWS# ,
o reS for
Good Stabling, and Loose Box*”
GRJIND
* BUNDABBR 0
Under New
FINEST SAMPLE BOOM W
drawing-room f° b
Having engaged a flrst! ' c i^t-^ s
o cater for the public in a nr
ALF. P.
0>
iusTON PKoerroß
““SSSS-jt
“TRIUMPH” THRASHI*
"*•*** jjO#'
Simon's Roller System of
E. o. eSKS *5;
4T KENT
THE GREAT NORT^f^Jf}
Ghaklotte-place AND
£. HAK v
nos, SPIRITS, and
J* fj
arriage free by Rail or Steatti price* * jj |
you please from the hat of Jg™ gccf fJ 4
obertson’sj Walker or EM» ®5 XXX * f ££ t
Wnville’s Shamrock and Burke - '
i Born Whisky
lossy’s *JOognao
re Gin
doa Rum
Heart do.
eartdo. .. *• *
« Brandy and Whiskies ,j B lt. ° |
sh Ales and Stout, best bra n £ f 9 li(W
Wine, for connoisseurs a»° £
Wine and Sherry from
One and Sherry nrum . om
rands Whisky or Brand? ap;
SPXOI
£3 CASE ALSO fo r
rlor ACOOMM9» A^ r °oSthe»S%^^
£3 OASE AlS° A
on afforded to v a nt)e rvM "a *
ire oonduoted under th ffj n be
Wellington sjp| P
Wellington (N.Z.), w ® ) r tel ition- Ajd.
will receive every D»*
will receive every ---- „ t
Spirits, and Beers W* w .
kept on file.*
MACHj
w
la
LOCOMOTIVES, TUG*^?
estimated VO*
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
|o'
Sydney;
HI, PITT STREET.
sd


The Bulletin
Vol. B—No. 395.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 27, 1887.
Frio , '
Torpedoes and Physic.
COLONEL CRACKNELL : “WELL, CREED, OLD MAN, I MUST CONGRATULATE YOU ON HAVING UNDERTAKEN SOMETHING YOU UNDERSTAND THIS TIMF. I
SUPPOSE I SHALL HAVE A REST NOW?”
CREED: "O. JUST YOU WAIT UNTIL I’M THROUGH WITH THIS.


THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable In Advance, only).
Fer annum - ® s *
Half-yearly - - - - O 12s. Od
Quarterly - - - - O 6s. 6d
Ail money orders, cheques, and registered letters
r arable to the proprietors,
The Bulletin Newspaper Company, Lim,
to whom orders for the paper, advertisements,
aod remittances are to be addressed.
NOTICE.
By lending direct to Th* Bulletin Office twenty ihllllngi
iterltng—which you may pay by Port Office Order, One-
piund Note, or itampi of any Australian oolony—yon can
fcave Ih* Bulletin poited regularly to you every week for
a year.
ThU offer ii n®t open to reiidenti of Bydney. In that oity
The Bulletin ii not delivered by mail, but ii entirely In
the handi of our oarrien, with whom we do not wlih to Inter-
fere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 27. 1887.
The Divinity of Office
When Mr. Justice Innes, of the New South
Walts Supreme Court, took the trouble
to publish “a somewhat fuller statement”
o' his “ reasons ” for arriving at his remark-
able judgment in the Levy ease, curiously
enough the very pape s which had adve sely
criticised the judgment, and showed up his
Honor’s “reasons” as a tissue of unspeak-
able nonsense, deprecated his condescending
to explain himself, on tin ground that the
action involved a sacrifice of judicial dignity.
And the same journils have recently fallen
foul of another judge for entering into a
controversy with them touching some reflec-
tions they had cast on his management cf a
cas-t. The “able editors” do not seem to
have disliked the task thrown upon them of
furnishing rejoinders to the obs rvations
of the functionaries in question ; hut rather
to have relished the by no means
onerous job of exposing the intellectual in-
capacity of their Honors. Yet to the miads
of those journalists there was a serious in
fiingement of the eternal fitness of things
in tlie spectacle of a Judge hopping down
from his exalted judicial perch, and condes-
cending to chop logic with wigless and
gownless mankind.
* * *
II ire we get another peep at that strange
infatuation of the English respecting the
divinity of office—-at that anti-Christian and
inhuman state of mind engendered by priestly
leaching, hired through the ages by crowned
cut-throats, thieves, and prostitutas, who
contrived by such illicit means to bolster up
their authority to outrage every principle of
morals and justice with a popular super-
stition j ielding them the status of demi-
gods, To even the educated mind, in this
“age of reason,” the office of Judge is too
venerable and sacred to allow of its occu-
pant taking the perfectly natural and man-
like course of explaining to the community
the reasons within him for engaging
in incomprehensible transactions. The
self-same men who exercise the right
to review the conduct and perform
ance of the Judges are shocked when one of
their Honors is so “undignified” as to
reply to their strictures. The Judge, ac-
ceding to the still current belief, occupies
a position of such vaff superiority over
ordinary mortals that his tamporary ming
li ig with the vulgar crowd, minus the horse-
hair and other trappings of office, and
deigning to argue a point with beings not
invested with even an adumbration of
divinity are regarded as violations of the
bottom principles of social cohesion. That
this is so is plain from what the newspapers
say. But it is made more ab3urdly conspi-
cuous to those who have t) listen to the
“ opinions” of the “ cultured ” classes. The
typical representative of this order is hor-
r.tied at any loss of dignity by a Judge. A
Judge to such a curious product of our
civilisation may commit error, he may
be guilty of ecjentr.cities implying
either gross ignorance or corruption ;
but for such things he merits no
sptcial condemnaticn. That his actions,
when they becoms outrageously bad, should
be respectfully reviewed and mildly depre-
cated, the representative of cultured, society
is prepared to admit. But there is one sin
Uuforgivable in a judge—an offenca impos-
sible to palliate and hard to sit down under
—and that is the terrible crime of attempt-
ing to justify a position he has assumed on
the Bench in the undignified and extra-
judicial way of writing to the Pres?.
# - •
The cultured-class fellow is not unaware
that his own personal interests are wrapped
up with the preservation of the ancient
hallucination about the quasi divinity of men
appointed to administer the law. Nearly
every act of legislation in Biitain since the
Heptarchy has been more or less directly in
favour of the classes and opposed to the
masses ; and right through the centuries
the administration of the law has been
flagrantly biased on the same side. The
maintenance of this systematised rob-
bery and corruption has depended on the
popular respect for the law. The pars ms
and police have worked well together in
drilling the paopla into holding the law and
all engaged in carrying it out in the deepest
veneration Even legislators w.re, until
quite recently, included in the apotheosis of
“ those placed in authority over u j ,” and
until the extension of the s..ff age to
part of iRe common psople, the olher
day in the mother country, a member
of ihe House of Commons was esteemed ai a
personage upon whose po.ition therj de-
scended a portion of the divine authority
and capacity for good inherent in the
monarch. And thus a most infamous sys-
tem of laws, and even more iniquitous ad-
minijtration thereof, have been sustained
and perpetuated, to the advantage of the
landed proprietors and the cultured few at
the expense of the suffering people. It is
excessively sid ani disheartening, thereto e,
for an educated plut.crat t> wi n S 3 the
«flic i of Judge reduced in dignity by its
holder writing to the newspapers, or other-
wise condescending to notice the criticisms
of outsider?. The welfare of the wealthy
depends in no small rma ure on the ciiitinu-
ance of the blind faith of the peop’e in the
b neficence and infallibility of the law and its
eipounders. So long as the b Inf exists,
fundamental reforms can be staved cff. S )
soon as the eyes of the people are opened to
the fact that they have been wotshipping a
false god, all the creations of the infatuation
will be swept away in double-quick time ;
and this is what those who find fault with
Justice Innes for unofficially defending his
tebion unconsciously perceive.
* • •
For our part, we are grateful to Mr. Innes
not a’.one for his offending those who would
gladly belLve that a Judge is above rebuke,
but also for contributing to the world the
funniest set of doctrines on record outside
of the comic and extravagant department of
literature. He would undoubtedly be valu-
able to put light touches of ht-mour into a
modern spectacular drama. Indeed, he
shows claims to be regarded as a wit of the
first magnitude. “ To the law,” he ironically
says, “ which, notwithstanding some
blemishes and defects, is in the main the
embodiment of truth and jus ice, of honesty
and righteous dealing, lying lips are an
abomination.” He then proceeds to show (
with precision the extent of the law’s
abomination for “ lying lips,” and it amounts
to this, that where the lying lips are‘success-
ful they are justified, but where they fail
tha law is down upon them like a blackbird
on a worm. The contrast lie furnishes of
what the law claims to be and what it really
is excels anything written by Gilbert
a’Becket in the tv ay of fun, and although
one may feel convinced that Innes is
wholly unfitted to sit on the Bench, we
esteem him highly as a clever dealer in that
most potent form of argumentation, the
humorous satire. If his judgment, as ex-
plained in his communications to the Press,
had been written by one not a judge, we
imagine the unfortunate paper publishing
the contribution would have suffered
for contempt of Court before the week
was out. Yet it is for this funny nun that
we are called upon to entertain tne emotion
of veneration—to bow before as “his
Honor” and “ his Worship.” Why, clever
though he be as a funny man, we think we
can show at least half-a-dozen his equals in
that respect, not to mention the maoter of
knowledge of the law, yet who make no
serious demands on our respjet, but rather
revel in the circumstance of their being
exciters and objects of mirth more or lees
unseemly.
* * #
But Innes has served another useful pur-
pose. He has shown the urgent need of
reform in the method of appointing Judges.
Wnat J. P. Abbott really'sail of Innes,
and denied thrice before the cick crowed,
was, we believe, pretty near the truth.
Abbott neglected to mention one herculean
performance of Innes, for which Her
Gracioas Majesty cbnferred 1 upon him
the honour of knighthood—namely, the
accompanying of Sir H Robinson to
the Fijis on the occasion of the annexa-
tion of those islands. Innes got through
with his share of the arduous work in hand
with marked success—his principal duty, we
believe, was to witness King Thakambau’s
mark to the document ceding his territory
to-the British. But though he tnay have
come triumphantly out of this annexing
business, we agiee with what Abbott said
and afterwards denied, that on his whole
record he has failed to exhibit any claims
worthy of c msideration to occupy a s sat on
the Supreme Court Bench of New South
Wales. He has, moreover, evidently a pro-
found contempt for the law. There is a vrai-
semUance running through his funny j udgmtnt
in the Levy case, indicative of a fixed belief
m the inherent connection between law
and injustice, that bespeaks a mind unfitted
to deal with legal problems and calculate
the poising forces which tend to disturb the
scales his duty it is to hold and scrupu-
lously balance. No, he is not quite tne
thing. But he is doing good work, never-
theless. He is demonstrating more clearly
than his brethren the absurdity of the old,
ytt far from extinct, idolatry of the judicial
office, and is bringing clearly before the
eyes of the people the urgent need of the
institution of better means of selecting those
empowered to sit in judgment on their fel-
low-men.
The Witches of To-day.
Ever since that very good young lady, Mi?s Mary
Jane Hicks, and her friend, the heroic Mr. William
Stanley, succeeded in swearing ropes round the
Mount Rennie quartette, the “ shocking outrage”
business has teen booming better than a blizzard.
The criminal courts are appropriated by offended
abandonne.es to an altogether improper ex ent,
and by chaste maidens who generally, according
to their own tales, have been eo much chased as
to have been oaught in some very queer predica-
ments. Juries, in the absence of Mr. Justice
Windkyer, can rarely he brought to view these
“ outrages” in the same light as the prosecutrix
herself does, and, with a gross contempt for
chivalrous rules, will persist, with monotonous
regularity, in bsinging in verdicts of acquittal. In
spite, however, of this perversion of jurymen’s
vision, the cases continue to recur with soul-sad-
den'ng frequency. And the parties to them bear
a strong family likeness. Almost evtry time
there is the extravagant assumption of girlish in-
nocence, and almost alwa r s theie are the same
painful explanations and pathetic references to
unfortunate little incidents in the former history
of the prosecutrix. It is a pity that so much
morbid imaginativeness should be wasted in the
cold atmosphere of a criminal court, and it is sad
that the police should waste so much useful
energy in landing injured innocence “ behind the
spikes ”
* * *
This is not a newly-developed phase of female
romance, nor is it peculiar to our own age. Away
back two centuries ago when Sir F. M. Barley’s
bright exemplar, Sir Matihew Hale, “doubted,
not but that witches did exist, for so it was writ
in the New Testament,” and ordered them to be.
burned or drowned tccordingly, this practice of ,
female confession of outrages committed by ifie
Devil was carried to even greater lengths th»n
the ordinary assault charge business at; present.
There being no fear cf contradiction, the romantic,
female was not accustomed to measure her,
werds, and (he superratural character of her,
alleged assaulter banished all onsideration astq,
accuracy of detail. But the old-tirrc gusher who,,
confessed to witchcraft, was at a disadvantage as
compared with the indecently-assaulted maiden,
of to day, for her evidence was her own death-
warrant. Her confession made her a convict, not
a heroine. Every witch was deemed to have sold
herself irredeemably to ths Devil, and the bajgain
by indisputable presumption was held to have
been signalised and confirmed illicit intercourse
with the Evil One himself. If a woman was a
witch it was held for a fact that she hai cohabited
with the Devil; and if she had (as evidenced by
her own confession) sinned in this manner,
it was fceld for certain that she was a
witch. If therefore a female bundle of hys-
terics wished to undergo the notoriety of being
burned to death, it was only necessary to publish
one chapter of her transgression, all the rest fol-
lowed as of course. Now it is a curious fact that
the old-time female gone wrong by witchcraft
always gave the indecent part of her maleficence
a very 1 prominent place in her self-condemnatory
narrative. Reference to the old chroniclers prove
this fact' beyond doubt. Thus Elliott
and her nine companions, executed in 1678, hi,at
that the devil was a sort of infernal Brigham
YoUng, for their joint-confession—which includes
much rbmantic detail—declares that they were all
overcome by him at the same time—a wide depar-
ture, as will he noticed, from the Mount Rennie
precedent. ' Furnaces for ten rewarded the
hysteria of Isobel aid her nine co-romancers.
lisObel Gowdik, Bessie Dun tor,, Elizabeth
SMoi'.Lih'T, and hundreds of others were similarly
disgusting in their confessions, and met a s’milar
fate. Other morbidly-mad females gave , v,eri-
similitude to their bald but not unconvincing nar,-
tives by introducing many artistic details. Little
devils called “familiars” were invented as a
relief from the monotony of, having only one de-
fendant —the original devil—in these cases. And
the familiars were invested with any quaint and
curious attributes that took the confessor's fancy.
In Vol. 4, Howell’s State Trials, p. BJ7, a sample
of a witchcratt confession is given. We quote
“ The examination of Annie Cate, alias Maidenhead,
of Much Holland, in the county of Essex, at Manintiee, 9th
May, 1645. This examinant sailh that the hath fourfami-
liars which she had frOm fcer mother about two and twenty
years since; and that the names of the said imps are—
. Tames, PitrcKCAitr, Robyn, and Sparrow; and that
three of these Imps are like mouses, and the fourth like a
sparrow, which the called Sparrow; to whomsoever she
sent the said irhp, Sparrow, it killed them presently, 1 ’ &c.
The above confession is a fair specimen, omitting
indecent parts, of the “evidence” upon which
lewd maidens were burned to death two centuries
ago. Deeply infatuated must the authorities have
been to sacrifice upon such’ trashy testimony as
this the life of a girl who needed no severer
remedy than a maternal spanking ! Yet for cen-
turies the sjstem prevailed: it ia estimated that
nine millions of witches were roasted in Europe
during the seventeenth century, and so deep-
rooted was the popular prejudice that witchcraft
was an article of public bel ef in m&ny parts of
England during the pie sent century. Even so
late as 1863 a witch was drowned at Hedingham,
Essex, by an enraged crowd of local shopkeepers
and farmers. In those days men who were in-
telligent enough to scout thaexistence of witches
were denounced as sceptics and heretics, and were
commonly known as “ Sadducees. ’ Disbelief in
witchcraft was counted as disbelief in the Bible,
and the bigoted and brutal but sincere re-
ligion of former centuries had less of pity for
the self-confessed female prvetisers cf the “ black
art” than the “respectable” journals of N.B.
Wales to-day have for unfortunate youths lugged
to the courts, and sometimes to the gallows, by
imaginative, lewd, and wanton womer. The
similarity between witchcraft and trumped-up'
outrage charges is pregnant with much signifi-
cance. In either case the foundation of the fabric
of evidence i 3 the morbid imagination of a de*
praved giil or woman ; the mind is excited by the
record of siniiar charges made elsewhere, and the
desire for cheap notoriety crys'allises into definite
form the floating figments of a foul fancy. In
either case the eager and officious assistance of
the authorities—formerly the priests end parsons,,
but now the police and the penny papers—encour
ages the female sensation-monger ; and in either
case also the alleged crime is one which Biumma-
gem respectability increases by the mere act of re
cognition. When an outrage has really been com-
mitted legal vengeance should be swift to pursue
the transgressor, but when the only outrage is
found in the monument of perjury with which the ’
prosecutrix bolsters up her charge, the penalty*
should be made to recoil wiih equal force upon' 1
the accuser. By such means the present crop of f
assault perjuries would he effectively checked.
Kver since the dsy when Joseph, called upon Mr.
Potiphar’s wife, and left his top-coat in her pos-
session, mtn have been continually liable to unjust
accusation by fecial sinners of the opposite sexp
the days of witchcraft wrought temporary sur-
cease of the darga-, for the devil was then perma
nently retained to act as defendant ; but now that ’
man has again been assailed by this criminal*
calumny it is necessary that adequate remedy
should,!) a sought far. Failing decent reporting by v
evening papeip, a consistent application of the 1
Statutes against periury would seem to ba the ’
only adequate remedy. The proofs of law must'
be used to punish wrong-doers, the basis of whose ’
crime arp lewd imagination and ohreme and sen •>
eational newspaper reports
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The “Telegraph’s” Moses.
The Sydney Dairy. Tklkgraim ha 3 apparently '
reorgoieed at last that the springs of Freetri djt re
run dry, and it sends out its financial Moses to
strike- the Protectionist rock in search of the
waters which have of late been so terribly searce
in New South Walep.. The Moses in question
performs his task as grudgingly as a second-hand 1
prophet well caD,.hut ho brings back a good re
port from the Promised Land, and this is how it
reads (in a leading article, mind you):—
“ During the hard,times which came upon New Zealand 1
after the Maori troubles and the excesses of the Vogelian
pol cy, a 15,per c/mt. advalorem duty was imposed on im- '
porteu'woollens, Toe dp’y at once lifted the two existing ;
woolhn mills—Kaip: i, near Christchurch, and Mossgiel, near
Dunedin—into tipurishipg p osperity. Tney had the best f
machinery money, c.oold buy ; they had the best operatives ■
Scotland and 'England could send out ;, they used nothing :
but the higheet class of me.ico woolthey aimed at turning !
out goods whic.ft would, contract favourably with imported 1
i shoddy: but all wasin vain till tlje 14, per cent, advalorem
duty wae imposed. Ror several years both mills have paid 10 1
per cant, dividends, and it, is suspected that thiß rate of
(Dividend does n r t' diEqlose all the profit. As time
; passed the output steadily, increased. The markets of 1
New South Wales and Tasmania were successfully invaded
and the New Zealand woollens aj;e able to compete in a fret’
'port with those'iehich, ape i/nported, from, Great Britain and
|the Continent.' They are sold in Sydney shops to-day A
representative of this journal who was in. New Zealand the
j other day by the manager; of one of the mills that
| he could lay down certain voollpn goods in,London at lower
! prices than the * Dglish, mills could offer them at, and it was
ievidently, within the slope of business expansion to makean
j attempt of that kind. All this looked well. It had the ap-
[pearahee of a triqmph fpr Protection. ‘ Here you have an
'industry established by the aid of the tariff,' Protectionists
j miiht have slid, ‘ which will scon be able to stand up in its
| own strength and win ip an open field of competition.’ Put
I aside the daring suggestion of seeding New Zealaid woollens
Ito London Qply a low th,at they cji Id compete successfully '
lin the open market of New South Wales. Does not this
I result justify a temporary tsx, upon the people of New
| Zealand? ”•
iHe is only a borrowed Moses after all, and the
: Telega i’ll, which never said a wise thing in the
| whole course of its, degraded wobble from one
i creetj to, another without contradicting it a me-
:ment afterwards goes back on him in the
j scarifying drivel cf that last sentence.
| Protection established the factories at Mosgiel 1
| acd Kaiapoi it enabled them to pay 10 per cent 1
! dividends on capital, and at the same time to
(mploy hundreds of operatives at wages which
| they would never have obtained by unloading
| nigger-manned ships at Circular Quay ; it placed
i {hem in a position to wipe out the infected shoddy
1 of Britain, and to sell iuits place a vastly superior
j article at a lower price than that composition cf
; disguised prison and workhouse rags oversold
!at; it enabled them to export their goods and
! undersell the British mungo in a distant market;
1 and on top of all this the D. T.; asks if the result s
(justified a temporary tax on the people of New
j Zealand- Can the D.T. tell where the tax comes
;in? The 15 per cent, ad valorem duty merely
| j the Mosgiel and Kaiapoi factories from
, being wiped out in their infancy by the combined
foicea of the importers, who, whenever such en-
terprises are started, league themselves to sell
under cast until local competition is crushed, and
I then, when they have succeeded in taking the
bread out of the attisanls mouth, raise the price
Of their slave made goeds to the old rate, and
proceed cn the even tenor of their way. Under
tfce influence of Protection tbe local manufac-
turers undersold their foreign competitors from
the first day their goods; came into the market,
&nd tha duty taxed no one except a few
economic fanatics who still persisted in
wearing British slop 3 made up by starving
seamstresses in the garrets of London. In Sydney
the New Zeal vnd goods compete at a disadvan-
tage, for freights in each case now stand on very
much the same level, and the rate of wages tells
against the island colony, and st'll the protected
article continues, to gain ground, and even
bids fair to meet the greedy manufac-
turers of England on their own grou; d. But the
Telegraph s own Moses wishes to have this new
prosperity wiped out at once. He says—this de-
ranged and unwilling prophet :
“ us see whether it is likely to be a temporary tax. It
is only two-thirds the Viciorian tax, and y«t ths deplorable
resuhs which have been reached in Victoria are coming
within view in New Zea'and. Here we h ,ve ia ihe one
col)nv wooden mills with 20 per cert, ad valorem duty to
help them cry ng out tha; th.y must have more, or save up
tfce struggle. Here we have in the other colony woollen
mills paying 10 pgr oent, with only a 15 per cent, advalorem
duty tp helpthem. Tfce exp'.nation of this anomaly is that
there are too many mills in Victoria. And it is pretty cer-
tain that New Zeal >rd will repeat the folly of Victoria.
The whole system is bad ”
Just so. A time may come in protected New 1
Zealand, as it already has in Freetrade England, -
when there will be too many manufacturers; con-
sequently, let there bs no manufacturers at all. A 1
ti ne may arrive when there will be too much good


and cheap colonial tweed in the market ; there-
fore, iet u 3 bave no thing but expensive
English shoddy. The manufacturer must be
protected against himself by not being allowed to
exist at all, else the childlike creature may become
too numerous and ruin himself. To an ordinary
mind it would seem that so long as the local pro-
duction continues to be cheaper and better than
the imported article it matters nothing to the
consumer whether the duty is 20 or 20C0 per cent,
but the Telegraph's recreant Moses declines to
take so ordinary a view of the case. But while
there may te so many manufacturers that some
t f them must go bung, there can't be too many
importers. No importer ever becomes insolvent,
or compromises with his creditors, or shins out of
the country with money that doesn’t belong to
him, and these middle-men who dispense shoddy
made by starving women at lltd. per diem may
increase and multiply until they cover the land
without any objection being raised. It is only the
manufacturer who undersells them who requires
to be wiped out, and when he is fairly extin-
guished a millennium in pants will be close at
hand, and the Telegraph editor will go out in
his imported long-tailed coat, which probably,
before it was made up afresh for his wear, went
through a previous existence on the back of a
pauper or a bailiff, to whoop for the golden age of
slops and weep tears of joy on the necks of the
,soflg3cd3men of York-street.
♦
Monarchy v. Republic.
•\Ve have received numerous letters asking for
information regarding the comparative costs of
monarchical and republican forms of Government,
all our correspondents, however, making the pre-
lluaive error of selecting Great Britain and the
United States of America as the ideal republic
and monarchy respectively, when viewed from
the financial or ’commt rcial standpoint. All the
various newspapers, also, which have felt called
upon to give ex cathedra judgment on this ques-
tion have travelled on the same lines, and arbi-
trarily selected Great Britain as the ideal fiscal
monarchy, and the U. S. of America as the idc at
republic in point of cost. But there is no reason
why this should Ve done. The Democrat is quite
justified in selecting Russia (say) or Germany as
the ideal monarchy from the position of the State
market list quoter. But Russia and Germany
hardly suit the astute Primrose-leaguer, and
similarly that Machiavellian individual would
never dream of instancing the comparatively cost-
less republic of Switzerland. Again, the whole
quotation of cost is a garbled one. The cost of a
royal figure head is put down at £385,000 per
annum instead of at the real figure, viz., £619,379,
which includes the grant for the royal grocery
and butcher’s bill, and then no mention is
made of the enormous cost of the aristocracy
of Great Britain, which i 3 an outgrowth of
the monarchical system, and a discreet silence is
maintained respecting the bill the English people
yearly pay in support of the establishment of a
.national church, another outgrowth of royalty.
In regard to the U.S. of America the cost of paying
senators, etc., which is really no essential of a Re-
publican system, is rigorously included. Ti e ques-
tion of payment of members may easily come up
and gain establishment under a monarchy; indeed,
there is ample historical evidence to prove that
the members of the English House of Commons
have, in times past, received payment for their
parliamentary services, hence this is no integral
part of a republican system, although democracies
are certainly more inclined to pay for service ren-
dered in hard cash than in empty decorations
—the usual refuge of parsimonious, but grateful,
royalty. In come lists which we have seen even
the U.S. fireman’s salary of some few miserable
dollars a week, or that of the shorthand-writer to
the President, is religiously enumerated, but in
the corresponding list of English royal expenditures
no mention is made of the hundreds of menials
who crowd the ante-chambers of Guelphic
>magrfifiiftence. Of course, there is higher
ground than thi3 to take. Those Democrats who
incline to a Republican form of government be-
cause they think it cheaper, we should imagine to
be abcut as bankrupt in patriotism as they are
penurious in disposition. When men can be
found ready to pour out their heart’s blood and
the heart’s blcod of their children for the sake of
Liberty, they will not stand and haggle with the
goddes3 about the price of her favours. There
are some things which cost too much if they can
be had for the asking ODly—Monarchy is one of
these. If the true Democrat considers that the
present regime is a bad one, surely he is willing to
sacrifice—although there may be no need for any
sacrifice whatsoever —mere pecuniary considera-
tions for a good one. If justice and right are
denied now, no true man would object to donate a
few pounds—or thousands of pounds —extra to
secure justice and right, if they can be secured by
a little additional expenditure. The whole busi-
ness is a miserable and degrading appeal to the
pocket, and argument directed not to the reason,
but to the purse, and e ven as it is directed to the
purse, it is weak and fallacious, and jumps posi-
tions instead of honestly stating fact
*.
Sectarianism ana Corruption.
Amongst the Australian colonies, New South
Wales in one respect possesses “a sad pre-
eminence.” That is with regard to the scandal,
suspicion, and slander which attach to the suc-
cessive Ministers. The slander spoken of recent
Cabinets is still fresh in the public mind. Mr.
Parnell’s sons in-law, Mr. Wright’s dual position,
Mr. Dibbs’ alleged dump-cars, and Sir Alexander
Stuarts land resumptions, were all common
subjects of deprecatory comment a year ago ; now
people are talking of the “ Woolpack” at Parra-
matta, the deeply mortgaged School of Arts at
Ashfield, and the A.S.N. Co.’s wharf bought for
the trifling sum of £275,000. Libels against the
repute of politicians rise breast h'gh, and every
new enterprise undertaken by Government is
visited with condemnation arising out of sus-
picion. In none of the other colonies is the charge
of corruption so constantly and circumstantially
alleged. Ministers are every day blamed for sup-
posed errors of judgment, but imputations against
their honour and honesty are only heard at rare
times and after long intervals of confidence. The
exceptional position which New South Wales
occupies with respect to the savour of political
corruption is probably attributable to many
causes. Ihe first of these may be taken to be the
comparatively low standard of intelligence pos-
sessed by the members in this colony. For this
inferiority the “Kiama Ghost’ is primarily re-
sponsible. When Sir Henry Parkes fanned
bigotry into a flame he divided the excitable
majority of electors on the question of religion,
and this narrow issue being the arbiter of election
stri'e, narrow, weak, and contemptible men,
by using the shibboleth of sectarianism, have
beei erabled, time after time, to secure a majority
at the poll. Under no other system could such
Political monstrosities as the Argyle trio, Messrs.
Holborow, Teece, and Ball, be elected to repre-
sent cmstituercies. And because shallow crea-
tures tf sectarianism remain in Parliament after
Parliament, resting bn their vile bigotry as
securely as a mud oyster in its native slime, the
proper checks on Ministerial authority are fined
down to vanishing point. A “ s'atesman” csn se-
cure more support by whistling two bars of Boyne
Water than by the enunciation of the purest
policy ever placed before a community. And
although his every act may be redolent of trickery
and corruption, an occasional utterance of the
time-honoured formula, “ To hell wish the Pope 1”
will secure and maintain an unswerving support
from the human maggots bred in the festering
corpse of sectarianism. The general knowledge of
these unfortunate facts makes distrust and sus-
picion a necessary accompaniment of Ministerial
action. A politician base enough to draw the
breath of political life from the decomposed body of
bigotry is not likely to be credited with pure or
even passably hone3t in'entions, and whan sup-
ported by the creatures of a sectarian policy he is
endowed with the opportunity of fulfilling the pro-
gramme which he desires to carry into execution.
That such suspicion sometimes Eeems to be
justified in fact, the records of past Parliaments
sufficiently testify, and until sectarianism, that
vile parasite of New South Wales politics, is cut
away and made to perish, the stench of corruption
will be in the nostrils of the people ; but bigotry
will ever be a factor of evil inN.S. W. politics so long
as Sir Henry Parkes is in the ascendant, and
John Haynes, the bottle-holder of bigotry, is able
to draw an audience patient enough to endure his
stale jokes, petrified platitudes, and immeasurable
impertinence.
♦
A Defect in the Constitution.
Rumours and evidences of jobbery and corrup-
tion are constant in New South Wales whenever
Parliament is not sitting. Ministers take advan-
tage of the recess to complete transactions of
shady and suspicious aspect. Any project which
would be certainly scouted by the Assembly is
carried through behind the backs of the people’s
representatives, and then when Parliament again
assembles members can do nothing to undo the
obnoxious Act, and are powerless to recover the
money already expended. The present receis is
no exception to the general rule. The A.S.N.
whar job, the Ashfleld School of Arts job, and the
Parramatta land resumption job are sufficient
signs of Ihe carnival tf corruption to which cer-
tain politicians seem to have committed them-
selves. These three investments will cost atrout
£300,000, and they are but the first of the series ;
what else will come to light before the 20th Sep-
tember, the day fixed for the meeting of Parlia-
ment, it is impossible to imagine, but wha‘ever
similar transactions may be revealed, it is certain
that in no case will Parliament be able to undo
the evil that has been wrought. A job once per-
petrated is irrevocable. Members may denounce
the parties to the jobs as they like, but the plunder
being pouched the effect of such denunciations
will be so minute as to be incalculable. Dalley,
the dilletanti dictator, of glory and goat fame,
involved the country to the tune of £300,000 over
the Soudan business during one recess, and
pledged the country’s credit to the extent of
£250,000 for war material, yet hi? grossly uncon-
stitutional action has passed almost without cen-
Bure. Why, then, should the Ministers of to-day
hesitate to perpetrate similar outrages on the
system of responsible Government ? As we have
previously urged, it is time that a check were
imposed to make these political crimes impossible.
If the Auditor-General’s office were capab’e of
performing the full measure of its duty, jobbery
by means of land purchases, and other illegal
expenditure would he effectually prevented, but
even if this branch of the service were made fully
efficient, a further power of punishment for the
illegal or corrupt actions of Ministers would be
required. A modernised mode of procedure in the
nature of impeachment, or political prosecution is
required. To make the members of Parliament
themselves the judges upon an indictment of a
Minister would be vain and useless ; the trial
would have to be taken in the Supreme Court, and
before one or more judges. Then no political bias
need taint the decision, aid by statutory sanction
due penalties could be apportioned to the various
acts of malversation of office, and perversion of
authority which now pass unpunished because
they are unpunishable One slight objection to
the erection of a new jurisdiction is the incapa-
city, approaching to imbec lity, which distinguishes
most of the present judges. But even if they
were inclined to treat a corrupt Minister as lightly
as they treat eccentric lawyers, the very charge
itself if supported by tangible evidence would be
sufficient to blast the reputation of the politician
indicted, in every constituency in the colony, and
this of itself would be heavy punishment to the
individual and a warning to others. And more-
over it is not to be supposed that the New South
Wales bench will for ever be stocked with the
sweep’mgs of the Assembly—the outcasts and
vauriens of politics. At the present time there
are one or two capable j udges in office, and their
less admirable comrades have done much to pre-
vent the appointment of any more political bum-
mers to judicial dignity. The purification of the
Bench is proceeding ; under the auspices of a
future pure government the regeneration of
judicial usage and spee’es may he fully accom-
plished.
«.
Keristian Charity again.
The S. M. Herald has again indulged in some
observations from the point of view of high
morality and Keristian charity on the admission
of unmarried women into the local lying-in hos-
pital. It is now more than ever filled with
righteous indignation of the Pecksniffian sort over
the “influence for evil” engendered by the
humane treatment of women in labour,
and is driven to conclude that the
“evil preponderates” to an extent justifying the
stoppage of “this branch of the Benevolent
Society’s operations.” Yet the manager of the
Asylum told a plain and simple story to the effect
that “this branch of the Society’s operations”,
cannot be neglected without bringing the com-
munity under a charge of unexampled barbarity.
Speaking of the typical applicant for succour, Mr.
Maxted says
" She will come at night time, homeless, destitute, friend-
less, with a child in arms, and about to be confined of
another—this oftentimes actually occurring within an hour
after admission. Ths circumstances which regulate the
admission of all the inmates of the Benevolent Asylum indi-
cate unmistakably that the applicants must either be re-
ceived or allowed to remain in the streets, possibly to perish.
But the Herald doesn’t mind any number of
destitute women perishing in the street?, inas-
much as thereby ‘' their continuance in immor-
ality” is prevented. A dead woman can no
longer infringe on the moral code so dear to the
heart of this pre eminently Keristian organ, and
accordingly her sufferings whilst want and expos-
ure are crushing out her life induce no compassion
and desire to yield her help—no sentiment other
than one of joy at the approaching riddance of a
blur on respectable society. “ When this view of
the case is ignored,” the Herald calmly declares,
“ it is to be said that humanity bandages its eyes.”
The humanity of the Herald, like the justice of
our judges, never has its eyes bandaged. It is
always wide awake and keenly on the outlook lest
its offices should be performed in behalf of one
unable to‘ give substantial return, directly or in-
directly. If a royal princess is in child-bed the
Herald is filled with the exalted sentiment of
pity for her pangs. Bat let the miserable outcast
in like plight be sternly turned away from the
gates of the asylum, and allowed to perish in the
streets 1 Is this the Herald’s humanity and its
Christianity!
+
Lord Loftus’ Misfortunes.
The Sydney Evening News in its sane moments
never hits a man who is down unless it has a
hospital certificate stating on oath that he can’t
get up again, and then it goes in with vim. When
New Siuth Wales receives a visit from a haloed
muffin man, who has made a pile and spent part
of it in the purchase of a wild-cat Norman ances-
tor, who never even when alive knew how to
spell a word of two syllables, the Noose calls
upon all classes and asses to rejoice; but when
a poor old nobleman gets into low water
and is sold up, the King-street rag comes out
with curses on its every distempered, mangy page,
and demands thatthe whole nation should jump on
the unfortunate for the glory of the democratic
flag. The other day poor Lord Loftus’ silver
spoons were disposed of in a Sydney auction room,
and the Noose arose to improve the occasion :
Personally, and as a private person, Lord Loftus may
be justly the subject of pity. His short colonial history,
which had such an ignoble termination yesterday, is a blot
and an outrage on our annals, placed there by the British
Government.”
A lot of equally choice Balaam’s ass on the same
subject accompanied the above utterance, and at
last, when the prophet had walloped his mule
half way down the second column, he came to a
standstill for want’of breath, and concluded thus :
“ There is a numerically insignificant minority amongst
us who give same reason to the Secretary of State for the
Colonies to appoint such men as Lord Loftus Governors.
That is the minority which toadies and truckles to and bows
down before any British aristocrat, whether sent out to
occupy Government House or not, or whether he be broken
down or not. It is such people as these whose reflected
snobbery, acting upon the English aristocratic snob in office,
induces the feeling that, whether it be to fill a Governorship
or wear a policeman’s uniform, anything will do for Aus-
tralia.”
Lord Loftus is as good a man to-day as before he
was sold up, but it is only when his poverty
becomes open and palpable that a paper, half
grovel and half gallows, starts to discover his
deficiencies. The name of Carington would
have served equally well, or rather a thousand
times better, to point the moral that anything
with tight boots will do for Australia, but then
Carington has not been sold off by auction, and
poor old Loftus has, and, moreover, the journalist
who slangs an incompetent Governor while he is
still present, might find his claim jumped at the
next gubernatorial ball, and the hard seat in the
back row which is customarily reserved for him
might be reserved no longer. We do not mean to
imply, however that the Noose is influenced in
any way by this latter consideration ; in fact, we
are fully convinced that its policy is guided by
mere stupid, drivelling ignorance, Chinese mean-
ness, and that hump backed quality of character
which keeps it cons* antly doubled up like a lower
animal in the presence of wealth and success.
What we desire to point out is simply that com-
mon decency might have induced the Evening
Bennett to refrain from turning its office cat
loose on the bones of the old diplomatist at this
juncture. Probably the Noose is even now
waiting for Carington to collapse that it may
allude to him as “that blasted Smith,” and
give him some idea of how the world treats a
man who is down.
Negroas and Nemesis.
We read in a newspaper a story, which is at pre-
sent goiDg the eternal regular journalistic round,
of a man in the back-woods of West Virginia
(U.S.A.) who brought his clave to the little Ame-
rican town of Cumberland, to make inquiries as
to the selling price of niggers, as he wanted to
dispose of his sable merchandise. Neither owner
nor chattel knew of the events of the war or the
emancipation of the slaves—they had lived so
long out of reach of the ordinary lines of civilised
communication. Of course, all the newspapers
rear upon their mental hind-legs in astonishment,
but there is little occasion to do so. White men
still own slaves, only the slaves are white also. It is
now some years since Elizabeth Barrett
Browning called upon men to heed the “ Cry of
the Children ” —the poor little white slaves who
moil in health and soul-consuming factories
for the financial benefit of inhuman traffickers in
human blood and flesh. Wherever man is per-
mitted by law to absorb the land of a country,
there also is slavery by law established, as the
land owners constitute a proprietary with which
it is entirely optional as to whether they permit
the existence of others upon their land or not.
The man that owns the soil owns the people whose
necessity obliges them to live upon it by his kindly
consent, and he will consent only so long as he
reaps the advantage. In a few years life will be
as precarious in Australia —through the gradual
absorption of all the public estate by land mono-
polists—as it already is in the over-crowded cities
of mos3-grown Europe or the English-ariatocrat
and land-syndicate purchased States of America.
But the story has an aspect for Americans to
study, and to study with fear and trembling
The U.S. have successfully ejected the “yellow
agony,” but a black serpent is being warmed to
life in their unsuspecting bosoms. According to
recently-published statistics the negro race in
America is increasing by leaps and bounds. Now,
too, they ate not kept in check by their own ig-
norance of sanitary laws. The negro is a rapid,
learner and an apt imitator. Plagues no longer—
peculiar to the natives of Africa —break out and.
decimate the race. The American negro is be-
coming civilised and educated. He runs news-
papers, he practises medicine, he preaches from
pulpits ; his sons pass with honours at West Point
examination ; and he can, moreover, unlike other
barbarous races, wear European costume without
falling a prey to phthisis. He is slowly working
out hi 3 salvation on the stamping ground of hia
whilom oppressor. Perhaps this is the revenge
preordained by a wily Nemesis for years of cruel
and bitter slavery, and is another method of
showing man that every crime carries with it its
own punishment. If we in Australia are stupidly
perverse and obstinately slow to warning, the
future of Australia will be shrouded from honest-
sunlight by a miasmatic mist of Chinese yellow,
as that of America is by a cloud of threatening
sable.
♦
The Queen’s Fund.
The popular Lady Carington has, thanks to the
fatuousnsss of her advisers, the peculiar honour of
having chaperoned in New South Wales the most
conspicuous thing in the way of fizz’e3 which has
ever yet been started. The Queen’s Fund bore the
brand of utter failure from the first. Despite the
hall-mark of Caringtonian approval, the project
was regarded as a fraud upon public sentiments
1 G neiosity was ready and willing to supporc such
a fund destined for so worthy an application ; but
the imputation that the relief was to be afforded
because an elderly lady had drawn £21,000,000
and perks from English taxpayers during 50 years
was so evident a libel upon charity, that con-
tempt of Arctic temperature met the proposal.
The object was worthy enough, but the pretence
was contemptible. Therefore the movement has
dragged wearily along, making just enough
progress to draw public attention to its
existence. Through every species of degradation
its active promoters have gone. They have held
meetings which none save four of themselves
could be got to attend; they have formed branches
by making weak alliance with two or three undis-
tinguished dwellers in each suburb, and now in
desperation they are invoking fantastic novelties as
well as the hoariest of ancient devices in the
Queen’s name “on behalf of the widows and
orphans.” So small are the subscriptions
that the committee dare not advertise such
as have been received, and present indica-
tions give every promise of an early and
ignominious disappearance of all signs of this
particular Jubilee scheme. “ Loyalists ’’—that is
to say, the hysterical idolaters of her Majesty—
may, by the total failure of this enterprise, ar-
rive at a correct estimate of the potency of the
royal name in Australia. In this case the title of
the “ Queen’s Fund” has been sufficient to damn
what otherwise, beyond doubt, world have been a
widely beneficial charity. It cannot be thought,
however, that the Qu ien herself will be consumed
with sorrow eve a if she does happen to hear that
this abortion has “ gone bung.” Her Majesty
has always lean asserted by her worshippers
to have an intense sympathy —which sympathy,
by the way, never seemed to be worth much
financially—with the afflicted among her subject?,
but in the light of the Govan Hospital affair the
intern i y of this part of the Queen’s emotion would
seem to have decreased wonderfully. The Queen,
who censured the people of Govan for devoting
their donations to a local hospital instead of
giving it to the Imperial Institute, is not likely to
be very much grieved if the afflicted of N.S. Wales
are left to wallow in their affliction. These re-
flections should afford much gratification to the
Guelpholators who have striven to kick along
this “ Queen’s Fund,” and if they will only cease
their “loyal” labours and allow themselves to
be convinced that the assistance of Australians
will not be given to a cause which has the mill-
stone of the Queen’s name tied round its neck the
way will be opened for a movement for the relief
of distress—a movement which shall be free from
false pretence and worthy of support for its own
inherent merits alone.
+■
Cheap Money and Bad Times.
New South Wales just now is the exhibitor of a
new phenomenon in her financial state. Business
is admittedly very bad ; except in a few
departments of trade things could hardly be in a
worse case. Houses by the thousands are tenant-
less, shops are let only with the utmost difficulty
and frequently at greatly decreased rents. The
revenue generally is falling off seriously, the pay-
ment of arrears of pastoral rent due in former
years being only just sufficient to balance the de-
ficit in taxation. Thousands of men are vainly
seeking employment, and 5000 more are main-
tained by the charity of Government relief works.
Taken all round business and enterprise have not
been at so low a standard for many years past.
Yet at the same time—and this fact constitutes
the phenomenon—money is cheap, growing
cheaper, and is very plentiful. Safe investments
are snapped up as soon as offered, dividend-pay iog
shares are steadily appreciating, and at 1 per cent,
the banks get more money than they can profit-
ably employ. These facts taken together make a
very interesting problem, and one that is capable
of satisfactory solution. Such solution de-
pends upon the ratio of capital to the pro-
fits attainable by capital. In other words it de-
pends upon the relation of money to profitable
investments. Hitherto we have been accustomed
to look upon cheap money and booming business
as the Siamese twins of internal commerce.
Hitherto there have been large rewards for finan-
cial enterprise; there ore cheap money meant
extension of business. But now by the restrictive
operation of Freetrade many avenues of enterprise
have been permanently blocked. Foreign capital-
ists supply the goods which our own capital should
be employed in producing. Money now is cheap
because its uses are limited, and its cheapness is
therefore not a sign of national prosperity but of
commercial depression. Why cheap money has
gained this new significance is also explicable. In
years past the fierce stimulus of a huge land
revenue, and a State expenditure of dimensions
out of all proportion to the population, invented'
new specic3 of enterprise, and afforded a premium
to the employment of capital. Then, too, foreign
trade was less than at present. Foreign merchants
had not so closely measured our markets, and the
slave and prison gangs of Europe and Asia did 10b
so roughly as now elbow our operatives from
bench and factory. But as our native labour has
been depreciated by the competition of foreign
labour, so, and in like manner, locrl capital has
been degraded as to its return by the faotthat
foreign capital is usurping its use. Our unem-
ployed capital not less than our unemployed
labour is proof of the harmful influence of compe-
tition with foreign manufacturers—competition
which limits enterprise at the same time that it
curtails the sum of employment available.
The honorary medical staff of the Glebe Children’s
Hospital has given the public a plain, unvarnished
statement of its attendance at that alleged bene-
volent institution which somehow or other does
not quite harmonise with the account of same
from the pen of Miss Holden, the lady superin-
tendent. To the cold, glittering eye of the male
cynic, the whole squabble appears to be a storm
in a tea cup - a fight—a tug of war, women versus
men. Miss Holden is doubtless a clever woman,
with a tendency to over-estimate her ability. She
has the mind of a man, tempered by the weak-
ness of a woman. Imperious in disposition, when
thwarted she is inclined to become hysterical and
to give vent to wild statements and wilder tears—
woman’s common refuge. The parties most to be
pitied are the board and committee who have
hitherto played the part of buffer between collid-
ing bodies—irate lady superintendent and irascible
medicos. The action of. the nurses in resigning
their positions the more intensely emphasises the
nature of the combat between the angdl woman
and that brute, man. The Sydney press goes
into ecstasies over this action, but we consider
it anything but creditable to those concerned.
Plainly, if sentiment be brought into the question,
the higher sentiment should prevail—the senti-
ment of duty and pity to the unfortunate sick
children, who would otherwise be left to the
tender mercies of the naughty, indifferent doctors
—according to the ladies’ showing. One item
sheds a flood of light upon the nature of the lady
superintendent, namely, her indignation at
the receipt of a letter in which the body of
the writing did not correspond to the signature.
As if it were an heinous crime to employ an


amanuensis ! But the whole case turns on a ques-
tion of divided authority—which should not be.
Either the lady superintendent should also be the
highest medical authority in the institution, or
the highest medical authority should be a resident
doctor who would be supreme. There is now at
the Glebe Hospital for Children no resident
doc or, hence a lady who is not a doctor divides
with the honorary medical staff the authority and
the responsibility of government, and these
squabbles will continue till this absurd division is
ended and the highest official shall have bolh
fanctions—of governor and doctor —combined in
his single personality.
-♦
Three Maories were recently sentenced to death
at Gisborne (N. Z ) for killing another native and
hij wife because they thought them guilty of
witchcraft. There was no proof prodcced at the
trial to show that the victims had not practised
witchcraft If there are such beings as real bona
fide wizards and witches, then, in all probability,
the defunct couple belonged to that fraternity,
aud t ie three Mioris who slew them were simply
acting in obedience to what they had been taught
i 3 a Divine command: “ Thou shalt not suffer a
witch to live.” The Maoris have been made to
believe under a threat of fearful future and
eternal penalties that the Bible is the Word of
God, and that they must do what it tells them.
They accordingly proceed to put its precepts into
practice, no doubt expecting great praise from
their Pakeha teachers for their prompt obedience
to the Word. What, then, must te their feelings
on being arrested, tried, and sentenced to death
for having done what their ancestors and judges
have all along told them it was their duty to do ?
No doubt the Maoris acted rashly and exceeded
their instructions. They should only have killed
the witch and given the wizird the benefit of the
doubt. The command applies only to the female
necromancer. Why this should be the case we
do not know. Probably Moses ti r.ew, because he
was in the line himself.
: —♦
“ History is a lie upon which men are agreed,”
once remarked somebcdy or other. Several thou-
sand years hence, when England is a moth-eaten
republic of some centuries standing, and men are
beginning to ask if Royalty does not cost less, the
followiig passage in the school history of that
period may bo quoted with slobbering gusto by
the royally inclined:
"Victoria had reigntd 50 years and her people rejoiced
much upon the anniversary of her accession to the th-one.
When the eventful day arrived, Her Majesty regaled all the
poor in her kingdom, and divided her vast wealth amongst
them, so that for 50 years after there was not so much as one
poor man to be found in all her wide dominions. She like-
wise made a noble speech, full of much queenly generosity
and greatness of sentiment, and evincing also a royal con-
tempt for the gewgaws which the ignorant bow down to and
worship. Amongst other things, she said : —‘ Most noble and
worthy councillors, and props of our Kingdom,—Being duly
mindful of the Great Creator's goodness unto me, l herewith
command that £10,000,000 of our treasure shall be invested
for the good of our poor subjects, who have so cheerfully
borne sorrow and misery and dire privation without murmur,
and who deserve high recompense at our royal hands.’ "
The Rev. Jas. Chalmers, New Guinea mis-
sionary, seems to apprehend religious difficulties
in Papua ere many moons have waned. At Ade-
laide, the other day, he grieved to state that the
Holy Romans had set up a sanctuary at Port
Moresby, and were running a Gospel store in
opposition to the Protestants. Ho thinks the
shock-headed Papuan will be unable to distin-
guish between the two styles of holy worship, and
not being civilised up to the grand, political art of
straddling a rail, factions will be formed and con-
fusion and corruption will ensue and run riot
through the fair land of Papua, leaving behind a
trail of skin and grease and mangled nigger. The
Rev. Chalmers has got both hands in the hair of
ah established fact this time; his opinions are
backed up by reasonable inference and all history.
There seems’ no room for doubt that New
Guinea is now possessed of the elements of a mag-
nificent difficulty, which will freshen things con-
siderably in the island and help on the grand
work of extermination.
|
Australian law is an uncertain animal to bet
upon; When it is chasing a poor man, who has
stolen a loaf, it travels so. fast that it leaves a
vacuum in the atrmsphere, bit when a well-
connected embezzler if in front of it he has to stop
to let the funeral processsion of avenging justice
come up, and when the one-eyed goddess can t
help catching him it apologises and take 3 h ; m to
prison in a two-horse chariot., This was probably
the reason why a young man of Bathurst, who be-
longed to a respectable family and had religious
friends and yet embezzled £4B, was discharged
after pleading guilty—on the plea that he was
only 20, white not loDg since two boys, who did
not belong to a respectable family, were hanged
because, they were only 18. Also it may help to
explain why William D. Birrel, bank accoun-
tant at Molong (N S W.), got only one month
for appropriating £22 10s., and why Waiter
John Hill, who had a good billet and a salary of
£450, and who yet annexed some £404 which
wasn’t his’n, received a sentence of ODly four
months merely because “he had to keep up a
certain position, and no doubt incurred expenses.”
And yet when Edward Rogers, of Sydney, who
possibly did not belong to a respectable family,
also incurred expenses which made him 2s. out in
his change when he came back with the coal-cart,
he wasn’t let off because he was “ only 20” ; he
was only 16, and he was sent to gaol for a month
—exactly the same term that Birrell got
for his £22 103. The one-eyed goddess may now
retire.
Dr. Springthorpe, the smart young Melbourne
medico who roused a rumpus among his brethren,
was duly elected a physician to in-patients at the
notorious Hospital. The action of the Medical
Society of Victoria in posting his circular home
for disapproval stands condemned by the vox
populi; and now some of the Society feel more
sick than their poor patients. One thing was espe-
cially roticeable in connection with the Hospital
staff eleotion, viz., that the leading sticklers for
“ professional etiquette ” had more agents touting
for votes than had their dem: cratic competitors.
A noble army of betting men, headed by Joe
Thompson, pushed the interests of Mr. Fitz-
gerald. The chances are that “ Dr. Fitz.” didn’t
seek the “rings” assistance, and would have
preferred to gain his inevitable position at the top
of the surgeon poll without Joe Thompson.
Nevertheless, the “breach of etiquette” was
committed. Then there were a couple of hundred
rowdy students digging voters in the ribs (ladies
excepted) and telling them to “go for Dr.
Girdle&tone.” He, by the way, got plucked.
The Age Bent forth its myrmidons to putina
word for young Dr. Syme, who ran, and got
placed for a minor event. And what with back-
ing doctors “ to win and 1,2, 3,” and taking doubles
about “ Charley Ryan for the ‘ln’s’ and Fred
Bird for the ‘ Out’s ’ "'there was no more eti-
quette about this extraordinary Hospital election
than there is about the Melbourne Cup.
BRIEF MENTION.
A Surprise Party—Triplets.
Parkes’ State House will never be re-
munerative. Too many dead-heads.
Mr. Dowling (Sydney District Court) says
dark ale is the best. And he’s a judge.
Something never seen in the S.M.
Herald :—“ To wit,” Not even “ wit” without
the “to ”
A Bilton (Eng ) policeman was recently
caught stealing poultry. It is suppose i he fell
asleep in the act.
A Manning River (N.S.W.) paper regrets
that an alderman narrowly eleaped fceing assas-
sinated by a cow.
An enterprising Sydney man has just im-
ported £5 worth of farthings. They will be used
in payment of those Bulli annuities.
A Melbourne suburban housewife charges
a Mongolian vegetable-rearer with having stolen
her bath-tub. This charge is ab;urd on the face
of t.
Mr. G. T. C. MILLER.
Editor of the Cooma EXPRESS.
Near Gundagai (N.S.W.), the other day,
a man narrowly escaped drowning. His escape
was, indeed, miraculous. He was a pianoforte-
tuner.
Miss Rend Graham, late of Sydney, is now
in Melbourne. We don’t know whether this is a
jroof of what Mr. Wise calls “the moral aspect
of Freetrade.”
Tiger Skinflint Inglis now wants the pub-
lic school pupils to pay for cleaning the schools.
What with cold, uocleanlines3, and general
i misery, the school children will soon be all Scotch.
| “Our own correspondent” again. Says
the Weekly Freeman :
' “ They go in fur lig Grins ip Australia. Two brothers,
I named Chaffey, have taken up a ho’ding of 200,000 acres on
i the banks of the Murray, for fruit-grooming purposes. ’
The pious gentleman who runs the Ade-
laide Christian Cqeonjst has declined to proee-
I cute his Y.M C. A. employ 4 who was charged with
Embezzling £lO. How those Christians love one
! another!
A company of messengers has been started
,in Melbourne. The men employed are supplied
i with a red cap and badge. It wap, however, an
; oversight not to supply some of th»m with
I crutches.
Experientia dot s it. Rumour says that
bank managers will now employ only loDg-haired
men to fill vacancies in their branch offices. It is
a surety that they have not been in gaol for three
months at least.
Visitors to Rockhampton (Q ) hospital are
forbidden to bring fruit to the patients, but no
objection is offered to Chinamen selling fruit to
the inn ates. Toe hospital Board members pro-
bably wear pigtails.
The editor of the Evening News speaks
scoffiogly of “the so called unemployed.” Now
this is unkind. Suppose the editor of the Even-
ing News quarrelled with the proprietary of that
vesper cable compounder ?
Melbourne is the place for enjoyment
combined with economy. John Charles Maguire
called a policeman “ a thing only fit to stand at
street corners.” The Police Magistrate only
charged him 53. for this luxury.
Caution for Sunday-school teachers who
speculate in land. Hood, the Melbourne bar-
rister, complains that, in defending a prisoner,
“ his difficulty always is to get rid of what the
blanky fool says when he’s arrested.”
Judge Windeyer promised the boys of
Brentwood (Eng.) Industrial School that if any of
them came to Sydney he would give them a help-
ing hand. Humph! We remember the last lot of
boys to whom Judge Windeyer gave a helping
hand.
Sydney E. News asks: “Why is G. R.
Dibbs like a winter’s night 2 ” and say s that the
answer is “ because he is long and dreary.” Now,
we have to ask : “ Why is the E. News like
autumn 2 The answer is, “ Because its leaves
are lying.”
The Sydney D.T. in a cable anent liquor
and arms in the Pacific, heads an item with “ A
Preventative Scheme Abandoned.” “ Preventa-
tive I ” Shade of Dr. Johnson! We suppose
that this “ quantitive ” utterance is in no way
“ qualitive ” but it is quite “ authoritive.”
A man was found dead on a Melbourne
wharf one day last week. Thtre were three
pawn-tickets in his pocket made out in different
names. One of the names was “James Pledger.”
This seems to show that he had some humour. It
is a quality which almost always brings its pos-
sessors to an evil end.
Mr. Gh T. O Miller.
The following unvarnished tale, to quote from
that highly intelligent black fellow, Othello, relates
to Mr. Gu3. T. C. Miller, editor and proprietor of
the Cooma (N.S. W.) Express. He is of Irish
descend and was born near Parramatta (N.S.W.)
in 1851. When the diggings broke out, the sud-
den depreciation in landed property that ensued
left his father a financial wreck upon the shores
of Time, and, afrer various experiences of an un-
pleasant character, ycung Miller was apprenticed
to lie printing trade at the early age of 11. Some
years later he became manager of the Monaro
Mercury, and finally he joined with Mr. Gale in
founding the Cooma Express, a paper which, he
s ates, will hum in spite rf Gehenna itself. In the
course of seven years he has hor3e-whipped arival
editor and lost £5OO m a libel action, but the
Express still booms along, and its ardent Repub-
licanism and its adherence to the doctrines of
Land Nationalisation are likely to keep it up for
many years to come.
Mr. John Smith.
Eor boring in the tree of life, and rettiag out the pith,
T ere'a no one can excel the man who beara the name of
Smith.
Mr. John Smith, editor of the Roma (Q.) Free
Press, vthoie portrait is attached, was born at
Leeds (Eng.) in 1836, though he didn’t know it till
some time after. He was apprenticed to the
cabinet-making, and left this business to become
book-keeper in a corn mill where dead men’s
bones were ground to make bread. In 1861 he
started the milling business for himself, though
not on the old bone basis, and enjoyed 15 years
of good luck; but ia 1876 he was compelled to
retire to the south of France owing to illness.
Oa his recovery he started to import wines but the
bad times thatfollowed brought bin to utter wreck,
and he started to make a new fortune in
Queensland. Having been at various times a
writer, lecturer and pamphleteer, he naturally
took to literature, and speedily settled at Roma
as editor of the Free Press, which position he
still holds. In the course of his life Mr. Smith
has travelled over the principal countries of
Europe, and has written largely and with
some success on h'storical and economic
questions, some of his works having attracted
considerable attention in England He is a mix-
ture of the journalist, architect, builder, engineer,
miller, wine merchant and student of things in
general, and has always done his level bast to be
a credit to the honoured name of J. Smith.
Billy Miles, of Queensland, is dead.
Shirley Baker is to remain in Tonga under
strict supervision. Why not send him to New
Guinea? Christianity needs a thorough expounder
there.
The cable announces that “ Germany sus-
pends relations with Bulgaria ” We hope nothing
has happened to the English relations of Ferdi-
nand.
The author of the “ New B rok of Kings ”
says : “ A good queen is as much a contradiction
in terms as an amiable wolf, cheerful lightning,
or a benevolent earthquake.”
Claude Sinclair s admission (in a diary
found in his possession) that he “won a Aver by
square gambling” is about the weakest thirg
we've heard of during some time past. No wonder
he found his way to S;dney Police Court.
A defendant in a Coarters Towers (Q.)
broach of promise ra°e has withdrawn his adver-
tisement from the O'Kate’s paper because O’K.
published all his badly-spelt love letters. Thady
merely remarked that he would not miss publish-
ing the letters to “Dear Fanny ” for a share in the
Day Dawn.
The sheep are getting by far the best of
the shearers' s’rike, and it’s leaving many of them
their ulsters in just the sort of weather when
they’re most wanted. By t v e bye, Garrett should
take a note that the wealthy squatters say
they’ll hold out even if the f hearing should take
six months. The information might come in
handy for him when next appraising their runs.
MR. JOHN SMITH.
Editor of the Roma FREE PRESS.
At the annual meeting of St. Mark’s
Church, Wellington, N.Z , it was reported that
293 defaced coins had been placed in the contri-
bution-box. These had to be sold at a loss of 255.
Pass the time-payment Addle :
AN EPIGRAM.
Justice is blind, and sometimes her temper
Is hot, as the sun is in India,
But out here in Sydney
’s of different kidney,
And to judge aright it gets Windier,
And as ’tia a fact in India’s clime
A monsoon there at periods blows,
The fitness eternal
Of things non-supernal,
Makes Gaunson blow Windtyer, we s’pose.
The coins were time-worn with the wear
And tear of constant use,
Their brighter days had seen them where
They never dreamt of pews.
When new they hid their jubilee,
And helped to make amounts
That seat some good men on the sprae,
And squared the : r small accounts.
Perhaps they went into the till
Of some good men in trade ;
Perhaps some corner whisky m'll
Grew roaring by their aid ;
Perhaps some Keristian gentleman,
Whose riches were immense,
Took some of those old coins to pan
cut for the Lord—in pence ;
And failing he to palm them o'er
On mortals here below,
Used them to settle up his score
Ere death called him to go :
But when the judgment day comes round,
And men look round for rocks,
That man will wish he hadn’t found
The money or the box.
CORRESPONDECE
Literary communication » to be addressed to
the Editor.
Business letters, d-c , to William Macleod,
Managing Director, Bulletin Co.,
Limited.
L Sam3on’: Judge lanes’ dictum that dolts
eserve to be duped i 3 after all onlv a crystallisation cf the
Wagga butcher's remark that sum peepil has money but no
braces, and sum has braces but no money, therefore let'
them take the money of them that has no branes " And the
Wagga butcher stole his aphorism from Miss Braddon
Whom Miss Braddon stole it from is unerrtais ‘Jus
tice (Townsville): Thanks. Bat can you get us some de
flni'e and reliable information on the subject? ‘ J e p
Scott (Cintaldra): Thanks for the donation for RO7. But
we can't dec'pher the name of the article concerning which,
you wish is to inquire....* Riv. Erins*: Please send name..
1 Koko : Thanks. Address wanted, please ‘Hussar’
Many thanks. ~.* A Subscriber’ (Parramatta): Either'you
or we have mislaid the clipping....‘ Constant Reader' ( 1),
Yes, under the circumstances the ho t’s reference was mos;.
unseemly. (2) Tristam Shandy,...‘ Young Australia ’'
You write :
O, G.orious Q een ! O, Woman G.-and 1
the fun reer sets upon your land.
"•'is good, no doubt.
I lu?trioi’6 Que?D, your Jubilee
Has come, your subjects want a spree,
B ) noble, shout!!!
Really, this is very vulgar and offensive .. .‘James Reynolds’
(Alexandria): We believe he is the same wizard, but we-
wouldo t swear to i;....* Bbo’: In the first Legislative As'
sembly of N S.W. (that of 1853) Mr. Augustus Morris, now-
aa officialassignee in insolvency, sat for Balranald... .* L M'
s much more absurd to flog a man than to flog a horse
an d übtles3 Chief Justice Harley knows this..,. ‘ W
G ten’: We hope to read it between now and Doomsday
‘Hassan ’: Yes, the m«joiity of civilised countries pay their-
members of Parliament. In Belgium a member receives £l6:
15t. a month, or £134 for a session of eight months ; Hen
mark pays her representatives 103. a day; Portugal allows-
her peers and deputies £57 a year; F-anca pays her renator
£350 a year, in addition to travelling expenses: Sweden pays
£64 15 ■. f. r a four months' session ; Norway pays £1 a day to ■
her representatives; Victoria pays £3OO a year to hers; in.
N Z. the rate ir £1 a day and refreshments for the session
and the United States tops the lot with an allowance of
5000 dollars a year, exclusive of travelling expenses
‘ Lippo 1 dairn’: Plea3e c*ll ...'C.J.R': Tub Bulletin
cannot guarantee the originality of every item. There is
nothing new under the sun, and too often the journalist finds*
I incself to be not the maker of the fl rwers themselves, but
“ mtrely the string by which they are bound together.”
' Omicron’: Thanks. We don't recognise the story. Can
you direct our attention to the number cf The Bulletin
in which it appeared? ...‘Grovie Ro dell : Will read tnd 1
consider.... I C.R ': Yes, Sir William Clarke is an L.S.B. of’
srme English University....‘A. Apsey': Next week, proba
bly ‘ L.H.’: The verses are good, we shall sletpon them...
‘ Henry Boehnre' (Ironbarli3) : Thanks f,r item ‘J.R.F.’.
(Ada Vale); I a all countries where English 1 iw is adminis-
tered the working week consists of six days unless othtrwise
stated : n a contract or written agreement; work done for
any fract'on of a week for which wetk'y wages are received,
is work done for a fraction of six days ar.d not seven
‘Thomas': Pu'sf rd never answered the Ale pamphlet
I I all. If you have read the thin essay of the paid secretary •
to the Sydney Frcetrade League, now read the Ale pamph-
let, and judge for yourself....' J. A H.’: By and bye ; curier
itemß must take precedence of stock items,. ..'W.N
(Tilpa): Next week, perhaps...* Max': Next week, possibly.
* H J.N.’ (Nyngan): Mary thanks; will endeavour to use.
....‘C. Dow’(Fernlee): Thanks for letter ; anecdote good..
‘Australia for the Australians’; The German is not to be •
feared half so much as the Chinese or—the Freetrader
'W. Green': If your visit was as long as your letter we pity;
jour host. However, we will read it ‘ F.C.’; When we
first read yonr “pome” we thought of going to Kimberley '
ourselves ; but we will give it another reading before starting.
‘J.GS'(Hay): Will attend • Spokeshave’; Thanks!'’
‘F.H.’(Balranald): Your specimen pars, are altogether
too intensely local; if you have anything likely to interest 4
the people up at the Croydon goldfields, or the pearl-fishers
round at Shark Bay (W.A ), send it a10ng....* Chiel’; Will'
attend....*R S.B.’ (Christchurch, N.Z); Your joke is too •
warm for these climes ‘Tycho’ (Vic.): Thanks.....
’ Cockney’ (Braidwood): Your verses are very good of their '
kind, iedeed ‘Bushman ’ (Mt. M Donald): If you really-
yetrn to pour at our feet rubies and amethysts and emeralds <
and chalcedony, and diamonds, and lapit lazuli, and, beryl, .
and onyx, and jasper, and sapphires, and turquoises, a»d ear-
bancles, and opals, and aquamarines, and garnets, and l
topazes, andlhyacinths, and jargons, and chrysolites,, and all l
man ler of precious s’ones and costly brilliants, we shall not
endeavour to place any serious obstacle in your way, and if >
you aeni a consignment along we shall feel inclined, repub-
lican though we be, to have a crown made of them to wear •
when we write “ anarchistic” articles ‘ SlowPison ’: Our '
ten h editor is “noddling’ over your, verses ‘J. K.
(Sy nty): Please don't hurry us....‘C.’: (Cargo): Thanks'
for uggfstion.. .‘Broad Arrow, 99081’ (fummer Hill),: Botany -
is h i-mless enough till crowned with its Bay;, but the tree '
kno vn most in the “rise a-d progress.’ of the latter is the •
gal! ixs-tree ‘Earnest Christian’ (Tas.)i: Would you 1
rei'ly have us understand that a man can't be an earnest'
Christian unless he be an admirer of the monarchical form 1
of Government? On which side was. the Christianity—on
that cf the brutal king Gjorge or on that of the American 1
Republicans?..,.’ F.G.H.’: The fact that it has already
oeen printed would in any, case be an objection ‘ Wil-
liams’(Sydney): First catch your quack. If we started on
the “ exposure” you speak of, we would have to prove that
Staiger got the correct parcel of stone, and also that he was
wrong and the other two chemists right. Perhaps it's the
(ther way about, ypu know. However, deposit £5OOO to
fight an atrcciou3 libsl action, and we'll consider about
sailing in ‘ Spes.': Dealt with in Bulletin years ago.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MSB. when the
sldress is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we deßire
hose sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
esponsible for the preservation or transmission of suoh
WSS
The escort for Normanton from Croydon
(Q.) goldfield the other day had 15,000 oz. Fifty-
four tons from the King of Croydon North crushed
ja return of 748 oz. For a new field Croydon is
'reckoned dull, and employment is scarce.
When the Perth (W. A.) police court sits
late into evening, justice is administered by the
hght of a single candle stuck in an empty beer-
bottle. ■ Also no fire is allowed in cold weather in
consequence of a departmental row. Th's is
almost as ridiculous as the pnlongei official dis-
pute some years ago bat ween the then Chief
Justice (Sir Henry Wrenfordsley) and the Colonial
Secretary anent supplying the Supreme Court cat
with half a pint of milk daily. Verily, responsible
government has not arrived a moment too soon in
the Iv'mberley colony.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal —“ Alone in London” .p. 1
Criterion Theatre.—" Our Regiment ”
Opera House—" A Night Off ’
Exhibition Building.— Roller Skating Rink
If a little more aggravated velocity coul
be infused into “ Our Regiment,” at Sydne
Criterion—if it contained a trifle more of sudde
unexpectedness and perspiring haste—if th
author had adorned his work with a vestige 01
that moral attitude that a spider runs off a ho:
shovel with-and generally, if the story wouldn
fall quite as often as a lot of mining scrip, ant
would get up a little faster than the spread o:
benevolence in a N. S.W. asylum, it would b
about as good a comedy as anyone need desire
Even without these things it is moderately re
spectable in a calm, unobtrusive sort of way, an
if the riotous malefactor whom the author ima
gines to be a new curate could be comic withou
throwing his coat-tails about, and the large
flabby presence and blanc mange countenanc
of Samuel Dobbinson were a little les3 dreary, anc
the junior imbecile slaughterman of the 5t
Lancers knew how to gee out when he wasmakic;
himself a nuisance—but, anyhow, these ere mer
details. The comedy itself consists in Samuel
Dobbinson’s premises being invaded by two officer
whom he hasn’t invited and doesn't want, anc
who don't particularly want him, but who never
theless came to live with him because anothe
man who takes libeities with Dobbinson has toh
them to do so, and eat and drink and sleep anc
nuke love as peacefully as if the place were a public
house, and Dobbinson only the man hired to shin
he boots. And in their efforts to make themselve
at home, they not only spread themselves all ove
another man’s home and make love to anothe
man’s girl, and go out in a punt that doesn’t be
long to them, and fall into somebody else’s river
and come back dripping, and take the loan of th
other fellow’s thirgs till their own get dry, bu
they telegraph to a father whom they never saw
afking him if he objects to them marrying
daughter whom they have only known for i
hours, and otherwise do their best to rende
themselves agreeable. They smack the new
curate about the coat-tail with a walk'mg-sticl
for one thing, and when that light of th
church is standing with his eyes fixer
on vacancy, aid reciting in a hurriec
monotonous yell that in these days when
the church is agitated by upheavals it i
necessaiy for all true Christians to join in drawing
closer the bonds, &c. they carry off his not
book, and leave him stranded in a profuse p:rs
piration, and remarking feebly that it is incum
bent on all true Christians when tbe bond
are upheaved and ihe church is going t
the dogs, &c Towards the end this sort of fun
grows wearisome, and though the after fate o:
the curate is merged in comparative obscurity
and the audience are left in doubt whether he
gets a black eye or is made a bishop, or whethe
he is last seen sitting on the doorstep of a mid
night pub. asking the proprietor for heaven's sake
to come out, and be his long lost brother— whoo-op
—and kiss him for his mother, nobody appears to
care. But if “ Our Regiment ” is only a second-rate
comedy, the acting, at all events, is above par, anc
the scenery —what there is of it—is excellent. Mr
Robert Inman has the only thoroughly good par
in the piece, and a ter long practice at making
love to “My Swee.heart” it would be surprising
if he were less than perfect. He has a smile tha
is as pleasant as the shadow of a great politician
when eggs are flying, and his hair is a symphony
Mr. Haygarth, as the owner of the borrowed punt
is as active as a gutta-percha demon on wires
and Mr. Harwood dees credit to the wilted Dob
binson. The rest of the honours fall chiefly to
Miss Florence Trevelyan, a daisy who-e name de
Berves to be written in enduring brasp, and—in
somewhat less degree—to Messrs. D. Boucicault
junr., and Fred. Laye.
df, dh JL JL
*7l* 'TV* *7V* *7v*
Professor Anderson’s great moral aggrega
tion is drawing pretty well at Sydney Gaiety.
People still go in an excited state to see a youDg
lady put in a basket and' stabbed, and then to
applaud when the same lady, or another so like
her that it doesn’t matter, turns up at the back ol
the stalls. Also it* is great fuu to lend the Pro
fetsor a £5O note and watch the clairvoyant lady
write the number on a slate at half a mile dis-
tance, and then a beaming smile, like a serpent
opening its’mouth’to swallow a cook stove, lights
up the Victim’s face when he gets his note back
again, instead of seeing the Professor tear down
the street with it. Part of the above is meant for
mild sarcasm by our own bullock-driver, and the
rest is commendation. For anyone who does not
want to strain and bulge out his mind by hard
mental exercise the Professor’s show is worth
visiting, and the scientist whose intellect is already
foundered, gets a good chance at the Gaiety to sit
in a dry spot and recuperate while he thinks of
nothing in particular.
-a-
W IP Tf* 7t*
After a long experience of eminent singers
who have only visited Australia in the cracked
falsetto period of old age, the appearance of Miss
Amy Sherwin, the Tasmanian Queen of Song, is a
welcome relief. Vocalists in Bath chairs and ex-
aggerated perambulators grow wearisome, and a
singer who is young enough to stand on her own
feet instead of on her last legs is a change for tbe
better. Mis 3 Sherwin has a sweet flexible
soprano voice of exquisite quality, and we would
feel inclined to term her a nightingale if it were
not that we are tired of the very name of that
overrated bird, which isn’t fit to eat. Her opening
concert at Sydney Y.M.C.A. Hall—patronised, of
course, by Governor Carington—was a brilliant
success, and the applause was all for the Birger—
his Excellency was soon as utterly forgotten as if
he had been only an herbalist. Herr Johann
Rhodes, the violinist, who has an an less habit of
looking at bis Addle as though he had never pre-
viously seen anything of the kind in his life, i 3 a
glorious player of the undemonstrative school, and
Mr. Stockwell proved to be the owner of a valu-
able tenor voice of great sweetness.
## # #
The triumvirate’s comedy company—about
the strongest combination that has ever visited
Sydney—will retire from the Opera House at the
close of this week. “ A Night Off” will continue
to be on every night till they go off.
JL JL JL JL
*A* Tv TP
Bland Holt and hia riotous drama, “ Alone
in London,” are to give place, at Sydney Royal,
on Saturday next to “Human Nature.” If this
play does not belie its name we will probably
have it explained at last why the man whose
stock of liquor consists only of a bottle of bBer
stowed away in the coal hole, always talks of his
“ wine cellar,” and a few other conundrums of a
similar character may also be answered to the
Public satisfaction.
AA AA JA AA
TV 'A' *7V* Tv*
On Monday night a man who might have
teen anything from a mollah to a pirate was
swamped in the rush at the door of the Sydney
Royal Standard. This was us. When we extri-
cated ourselves we found a dubious Yankee with a
bull head and a mutton fist informing the un-
ruffled Gunther that he would knock the contents
out of him because some one had sold him stall-
tickets when there was no standing room left in
that part of the house, and behind this rampant
man of blood a girl of uncertain age was making
faces at the manager. Nobody was killed, how-
ever. Upstairs “ His Natural Life ” was booming
in the presence of a large audience, and looking
as well as splendid scenery and good actiDg could
make it. Evidently Marcus Clarke’s story has
got a firm hold of Sydney, and is good for another
long run. On Ist October next Mr. Dampier in-
tends to abandon his old haunts and open at the
Gaiety, where Larry Foley, in the new character
of a theatrical lessee, is expending a large sum in
improvements and decorations. In his new pre-
mises Mr. Dampier will continue as before to give
the soft answer that turneth away wrath, while
L arry will dispense the wipe on the ear which
covereth a multitude of sins. Our Scriptural
editor being out at present this quotation has been
fixed up by the sporting contributor.
## # #
The burnt cork nrmlrals at Sydney
Alhambra have made very little change in their
programme this week. A few new sODgs—
notably the “Lullaby,” “Sweet Ham,” ‘ Im
leaving thee in sorrow, Annie,” and the “ Sorg of
the Glass”—are very well rendered, and other-
wise the proceedings go on much as before. The
above remarks are made with reluctance, for we
hate niggers. Three lor g years ago we attended a
fancy dress ball at Dunedin (N.Z.), and the wife
of Putty Brown, wholesale painter and glazier,
came as a negcess and condescended to dance
with us. We kissed her burnt cork paw in the
course of a quadrille to see if the colour would
hold, and she never spoke to us again. Neither
did her mother, who dressed in red and danced
like a fairy, and Putty Brown looked coldly on us
ever afterwards We have hated niggers ever
since, and though we are open to extend the hand
of friendship to Brown and give him a job at re-
pairing tbe back window, we can never again
enter the bosom of a family which includes any-
one darker than a ramshackle Uhinaman.
#* * #
Ma jor Dane continues his course of lec
tures at the Sydney New Masoiiio Hall, and is
already established as a popular favourite.
MISS AMY SHERWIN.
The Major is a bluff, hearty Boldier, a good
speaker, and probably the best lecturer who
ever struck Australia since Charles Clarke.
He is full of fun, but his bump of rever-
ence is sufficiently developed to prevent his
fun degenerating into anything calculated to
raise a blush, and his eloquence is certain always
to ensure him a warm welcome in the colonies.
Moreover, there is very little of the irritating
capital “I ” about his addresses. Phil. Robinson
needn’t come back. His claim is jumped past all
redemption.
## # #
We must con f eas that we don’t much like
the name “Her Majesty’s Theatre.” It reminds
us disagreeably of “Her Majesty’s Gaol.” But
then, you see, the man who writes th’s has bsen
in gaol—for assaulting his mother-in-law with the
fire-irons—and has a guilty conscience. The man,
whoever be was, who named the theatre “Her
Majesty’s ” had probably never, never been im-
mured in a dungeon-cell.
*~-Y- -'V- -A/-
•75“ "TT *7V*
Thus the D.T. of the 19th ult., anent
Major Dane's first lecture : “Asa humourist, the
lec.urer will take rank with such men as Mr. W.
(sic) Browne ( \rtemus Ward) or Mr. Clements
(tic (Mark Twain).” Then, inter alia “ a tortu-
ous death ” occurred, which was evidently a
humorous allusion on the part of the writer to a
winding sheet. Hut really, Editor Ward, the
next time when the two greatest American
humorists are spoken of, please get your
talented minions to remember that Charles
Farrar Browne and Samuel Langhorne Clemens
are their proper names, and that the prefix “Mr.”
is somewhat redundant. One might as well say
Mr. William Shakespeare—or, for the matter of
that, Mr. F. W. Ward-Lord bless him !
#* * #
Cowan’s Comedy and Burlesque Company
are doiDg good business in northern N.S.W. with
“ Struck Oil,” “His Natural Life,” &c.
*# # *
The much talked of “Dorothy,” which
has repls cod “ Princess Ida” at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s, is about as nice as they’ve made ’em up to
the present. Saturday's performance lasted too
long for the railway time-table, and the intervals
between acts might have tempted Job to blas-
pheme, but these were only little spots upon the
sun which will be presently effaced. Scenery
such as the Triumvirate have lavished upon
Cellier and Stephenson’s opera justifies its pro-
longed setting up. There is a quaint Old English
flavour about the story of “Dorothy,” borrowed
more or less from “She Stoops to Conquer,” and
arranged to music already written. The fun is
made by two nice girls of “county family” assum-
ing the disguise of stage rustic maidens and
mashing two gay dawgs from London. In their
sassiety capacities the girls mash the fellers over
again in reverse ways. Subsequently the same
darlir gs further play upon the insane credulity of
their victims by getting at ’em in tunics and top
boots. If anybody is disposed to sneer at the ob-
tuseness of these young men from London we
would remind him that heavy drinking prevailed
last century, „ and that Rosalind larked with
Orlando in a similar way. Other love passages
are provided by a rustic Phyllis and her yokel,
also by a sheriff s officer and a housekeeper who
has buried a little regiment of husbands. From
first to last “ Dorothy ” is a graceful and pretty
piece of work, requiring a little pulling together
to make it the talk of the town. There will be
time enough to say sweet things about the com-
pany generally. The first impression created by
Miss Leonora Braham was mildly immense. This
is diplomatic criticism.
'LL «AL «AL
Tv* -TV* *7Y* TV*
The gentlemen who started a Chinese
Charity Carnival at Melbourne Exhibition haven’t
much to chuokle over. Afcer paying all expenses
there remains a profit of about £5OO to hand over
to the hospitals. Considering that the Chinkies
expended £3OOO in heathen banners, &c., we
reckon they fooled away £2500 in mock philan-
thropy. Not much cheap labour about that show,
anyhow.
*# # #
Emelie Melville, in “ Masks and Faces,”
drew a trembling crowd of adorers to the Bijou.
Everybody with a heart under his waistcoat
wished the popular lady success in her new ven-
ture, and came prepared to be pleasant. Her per-
sonal charm procured a civil reception for a
performance which it would be cruel to di-cuss in
detaU. Miss Melville is not an ideal Peg Woffling
ton by long, sad chalks. Forced in manner,
lacking in passion, and commonplace as regards
get up, she failed to make headway against a sea
of troubles. The celebrated picture, into which
Woffington pokes her fair face and hoodwinks a
roomful of critics, was an object of derisive con-
tempt. We wou’d back ourself, blindfold, to
paint a better picture on our little brother’s eye
Mr Wybert Reeve did his best as Triplet, and
Mr. Cates bore himself like a rational human
being. The rest of the crowd had better run
violently down a steep place and be drowned
without stopping to attend rehearsals of the next
‘ high-class comedy.” Their fortes lie elsewhere.
Miss Melville is such a popular favourite that she
can do anj thing in reason with a doting public.
But unle33 something is done—’twere well ’twere
done quickly—in the way of new scenery and
fresh support, her comedy season won’t make any-
body's fortune.
T T T T
The dark-eyed sous and daughters of
Italia start thsir second turn of grand opera at
Melbourne Royal on Saturday. “ Belisario” is
the bill. Talking of the Italians i eminds us that
when the Melbourne Metropolitan Liedertafel
crowd took their trip to Adelaide Mr. Simonsen
put up •* Les Huguenots ’ as his stronges
counter attraction to the amateur concerts.
All's fair in love and music. Mr. S. had pre-
viously borrowed the full score of the opera from
the Lieder:afel. “ Dick” is s‘ill doing good busi-
ness at the Ocera House, and keen competition is
raging between the rival nigger impresarios —
Frank Clark and Coghill Brothers.
## # *
The Harding-Plaisted Opera Company are
playing a season in Ballarat, Sandhurst, and Gee-
long (Vic ), under the direction of Mr. James
M'Mahon. The company re-organised is a strong
one, and business is good.
‘7T -7T 'A'
At Brisbane Royal, “ Hoodman Blind ”
and “ The Magistrate ” have been revived with
considerable success during Exhibition week. On
25th, W. J. Holloway was to taka a benefit in
“ Twelfth Night,” Miss Essie JeDyns appearing
for the first time as Viola. “ Harbour Lights ” is
announced for the Monday following. Grattan
Riggs has b;eu greeted with crowded houses at
every performance of “The Irish Detective” at
the Gaiety. The city is full of country visitors to
the Exhibit i jr.
## # *
The last nights of Martin Simonsen’s
Italian Opera Company at the Theatre Royal,
Adelaide, are announced, writes our correspon-
dent. The season altogether has been satisfactory,
taking into consideration the piety and financial
depression of the place. Mr. Wybert Reeve, who
has been a hard-working professional, has under-
taken, on behalf of Messrs. W. G. and M., the
management of the Royal, and no doubt the
Triumvirate will be rewarded for their wise selec-
tion, The Melbourne Liedertafel have given a
in ,, fc i T e T< ?f a Ha!l> .where the Faust
hamily and Herr \on Der Meyden had a well
deserved benefit. The Japanese Troupe, with
Rollinson the bicyclist, appear fora few nights at
Garners theatre, which will thereafter be oc-
cupied by Tommy Hudson and his company, who
are sure of a warm welcome.
## # #
Patti never performs on “tick.” Her
cheque must be safe beforehand. At Her Majesty’s
theatre, London, recently, the proprietor engaged
her for £6BO per night—£soo for herself, and £lBO
for her Yankee impresario, Mr. Abbey. The high
admission prices, which the public would not pay,
soon caused a deficit in the theatrical treasury’
One Saturday the orchestra members refused to
perform unless their arrears were paid. Mr.
Abbey refused to forego his £lBO, and Patti would
not hear of any rebate on her fee, so that, two
hours before the commencement of the perform-
ance, the proprietor was left in the lurch, and the
public had to be turned away from the doors. It
was bad enough thu3 to disappoint the common
people, but when a “command” from the Queen
to sing at a State concert reached Madame the
following week, she declined to comply. The fee
was only £BO and the royal smile thrown in, but
Patti and the Yank, said “ No.”
## * #
A certain old actor, who was never known
to be punctual at rehearsals, had always some
excuse ready in consequence. Once, when put to
his wits’ end for a novel excuse, he told the stage
manager that “ the cat had kittened In the clock
and stopped it!”
## # #
„ were rehearsing “ Macbeth.”
“Here,” said the stage manager to one of the
actors in the Witches' chorus, “ you ought to sing
bass, your brother’s a tenor.” As a matter of fact
the actor could not sing at all.
## # #
When H. I?. Harwood was playing the
king in ‘ La Mascotte,” at the old Princess
Theatre, Melbourne, Graves and Walter Madden
were in office. Part of Harwood’s “gag,” when
he excused his absence somewhere, was “I
haven c time now. I have to go to the cemetery
with Graves, and to the lunatic asylum with
Madden.”
"TV* ’7V* •TV
Mrs. Langtry’s future name is to be Lily
St. Heliers. She is really going for a divorce.
## # #
Mr. W. Walshe, the well-known tenor, is
son of Mr. J. S. Walshe, who lost his life in Mel
bourne some years ago in saving that of Mr. G. P.
Smith, M.L.A., the barrister who was fired at in
Latrobe-street by Gerald Supple, a brother bar-
rister and j ournalist. Supple was sentenced to be
executed, but was reprieved, and, after spending
many yoars in Pentridge, was released. He is
now editing a paper in N, Z. The Victorian Legis-
lature voted £lOOO to Mr. Walehe’s widow and
family, and this was largely supplemented by
public subscriptions-the admiration of Walshc’s
gallantry being universal. Mr. W. Walshe is a
pupil of Madame Lucy Chambers.
## # #
Here are some true bills against a certain
tragedian who attempted to flourish in these
colonies some few years ago. When manager, for
a brief period, of a venerable Melbourne
theatre, he was remarkable for his economical
policy. Among his company was a utility-man
and a super-master. The manager was very fond
of imposing fines so as to reduce expenditure, so
directly rehearsals started he would find faults of
a trivial nature with those two unfortunates and
fine them a shilling each. Then he would
send a messenger for a small bottle of ale and
some cherries, having saved two shillings in
salaries. The same manager was never guilty of
knowing his part?, and once, when playing
Mephistopheles, in “Faust,” he had his part
pinned behind a tree in the garden-scene. But a
wicked wag of an actor stole his eye-glass, and
the economical one was hors de combat. He
knew to an unit how many tacks were in a packet,
begrudged the smallest price for any * neces-
sary “ property," and regaled his female friends
on lemon-kafi, which was cheap and could be
made by himself.
## # #
Ivanova ia Russian for St. John. But th
charming young prima donna is not a Muscovit
but a real British “ Honorable.”
** * #
Minnie Palmer told an Auckland man a
story just before she left for the States, which
proves that, after all, she is a Yankee. People
she said, would go to the theatre despite the bad
times. On one occasion, when she was playing in
a little American town, a poor man came to the
hall and purchased a dollar ticket. He told the
ticket-seller that it was his bottom one, all that
he possessed in the world, and that he didn’t know
where he was going to get his breakfast in the
morning. “So you see,” said My Sweetheart
‘ the desire to see a ; lay is pretty strong, all over.”
So is the de3ire to tell stories, Minnie. We only
hope no accident occurs to you on your travel?.
** * *
Several Parisian journals have exhausted
their loveliest adjectives in praise of Miss Florence
Mejer’s phenomenal performances on the piano-
forte. The lady is a sister of Dr. Felix Meyer of
Carlton (Vic.), and her farewell pianoforte recital
on May 31 appears to have capped the climax "of
her popularity in the gay city. Though only 20
she is author of a five-act opera, “ Victorina ”
which is shortly to be produced on an Austrian
lyric stage. One journal says that besides her
great qualities as an executante, she is also ‘ a
composer of most remarkable talent and is assured
of the most brilliant future possible.” She ha 3
been in Europe since ’B5, where her talents were
recognised by a Frankfort professor, who induced
her to place herself finder his tuition. An engage-
ment to star Austria and subsequently Russia has
been accepted by her, and if she escapes annexa
tion by an Austrian Grand Duke, it will only be to
enslave the heart of some noble Cossack and bear
him captive to the Sunny South.
## # #
Many of us (have heard the music-hall
topical vocalist who announces, “Ladies and
gentlemen, my songs is original, as I writes ’em
myself .” Here is a specimen verse which wc ven
ture to say “takes the whole confectionery estab-
lishment,” with the dyspepsia, afterwards. It was
anent a colliery disaster, and was sung at a music-
hall in Newcastle-upon-Tyne (Eng.)
Oh, the Duckenfield explosion brought tears to
many eyes,
From the sailor on the ocean to the ‘ flyman ’ in
the ‘ flies ’ ;
There were some were killed, and some were
slain, and some they lost their lives
It was a dreadful catastroph, ‘in eighteen,
seventy-five’ !”


pepper
And
Salt
The Bulletin, as usual, has to come to
the rescue. At a late hour last night, when we
had thrown the last K.C.M.G. downstairs and
wore just about to retire to roost, we were
attracted by a low whistle in the Btreet, and look-
ing out we saw Sir Henry Parkes disguised as a
pirate hanging on to a lamp post. We started to
hail him, but he said “ Whish !” in a mysterious
whisper and beckoned us to come down. On
arriving at the foot of the stairs he took us aside,
and putting his mouth in our capacious ear asked
us in a hoarse, aggravated whisper if we were
the exasperating person that ran this here
paper, and what the dooce made us create such a
row about the centenary. What kind of a cen-
tenary did we want, anyhow ? To oblige him we
promised to formulate a scheme, and we now pro-
ved to lay the same before the public. We want,
in the first place, to see Mr. Solicitor Levy taken
bid with gout, and we want everybody to wear
a kilt, so that all Kurts’s pants may be left on his
hands and he will have to sell them at dish-cloth
prices. We want all the infants who have been
christened Victoria Jubilee to bo re-named Sairey
Hann, and we would like to ascertain the parti-
culars about a certain dignitary’s grandmother who
oime out to Australiamany yearsagofor something
in connection with a horse. We want to boil a bush
poet, and to give the cold shake to Haynes and
his second-hand, deputy assistant, scalded, orange
pip, and we are anxious fo see Judge Windeyer
wrecked on a desert island without a stitch of
clothes, and sitting for seven years on the rocks in
a suit of sea-weed, combing his hair with a bone.
We want Judge Docker to be pensioned off
with a light billet in the cold ham trade,
and Inglis to be turned loose with a tiger in
the pit of the Theatre Royal, where he would have
plenty of room to quench the raging animal by
fixing it with his eye. We would give Parkes
100 yards start of a cannibal and let him take his
chance, and we would make the Rev. Madgwick
fall out of a three-story window on top of the
Pope, and see how he liked it. Then we would
drop the remains of the Pope on top of Madgwick,
and sea how they both liked it. These are the
rough outlines of our scheme, but a few interest-
ing details might be filled in. Let John Haynes
and the Cardinal be chained up in a dark room
armed with a brick apiece, and Pastor Jefferis be
forced to liquor up at Solomon’s bar in the disguise
of a ballet-dancer ; let preaching be abolished,
also politics, prayers for rain, relics that have been
“ breathed upon by the spirit of the age,” Habigle’s
“minits,”the woman who eats oranges at the
theatre, the inspired herbalist, the oldest inhabi-
tant, the man whose breath smells of rum in our
'bus, the sleeping policeman, the curate who states
that “ Bawabbas was a wobbah,” the insurance
agent, sewing-machine canvasser, book-fiend
and Social Purity man, also the faith-healer
whose cure is all my eye, the Industrial Society
which is industriously bung, and the bilious
boarding-house-keeper whose bones come through
her skin, as well as the other man’s cat that sits
on our bed, Lastly, if Parkes comes in ahead of
the cannibal aforementioned let him be pensioned
off with the billet of examiner of poetry or in-
spector of immoral politicianslet everybody
have the key of the street for a week ; let the
lamp-posts blossom and the pubs remain open all
night ; let our loan-office hundred per shent
friends, Moses, Samuels, and Cohen, be pub
licly banqueted on pork; and let Habigle
go to a night-school. And then all N.S W.
will awake next morning in the lock up
along with a Chinaman, and after it has put its
splitting head under the pump it will arouse itself
to the consciousness that it has for once had such
a bottomless pit of a centenary as never was.
# * •
The following circular has been issued by
the Teachers’ Association for distribution among
the parents of all children attending Public
Schools in N.S.W. :
“ Public School, , 1887.
<■ D ear The allowance hitherto granted by the
Government for the expense of cleaning Public Schools
having been withdrawn from the Ist July last, other ar-
ranqements have tobe made for the performance of the work.
Since the cleaning is necessary, mainly m the interests oj the
wuvils. for their health, comfort, and moral cultivation m
habits of cleanliness and order, the teachers beg to submit
for vour consideration the reasonableness of the cost being
borne by parents. It is estimated that a contribution of
ner quarter from each child will cover the cost. If this view
of the matter should commend itself to your approval, I
shall be glad to receive from you contributions for the cur-
rent quarter. lam yours faithfully, , headmaster.’
The compilers of fhe above document are evi-
dently afraid to express their real sentiments in
the matter, and have only succeeded In veiling
their personal indifference to cleanliness by the
thinnest possible layer of humbug. Hand down
the educational lyre, and let us translate their
ambiguous language into plain English, flavoured
by a chunk of the immortal truth!—
If the rising generation of Masterton
(N.Z.) doesn’t come to the front it will cer-
tainly not be for any want of enthusiasm
in the cause of education on the part of
of their seniors. At a recent school committee
meeting down there, a committee man, having ob
jected to something the chairman said, that
worthy invited the “ other feller ” to “ come out-
side an’ have his head punched as big as a bloomin’
flrebell.” This friendly invitation was promptly
accepted, and for about ten minutes it was “ nip
and tuck ” in the yard between the pair, while
the rest of the committee patiently awaited the
chairman’s return, in order to get on with the
business. When he did return, however, he was
in no humour to resume his duties. His classic
nose looked like a squashed banana, a lovely moss
agate adorned his alabaster brow, his right eye
was decorated with a sort of purple watch-pocket
hung underneath, and his general appearance was
that of a man who had just been holding an indig-
nation meeting in a slaughter-house. The “ other
feller,” however, was as fresh as a daisy, and hav-
ing his hand in, offered to “ oblige any other gent as
would like to uphold the chairman’s ruling.” No
one felt ambitious, and so the meeting closed with
the doxology in the little pub. round the corner.
Next day the local paper remarked that “such pro-
ceedings are scandalous, and the effect upon the
youth of this town is of a most debasing character.”
There’s taste ! Why, the youth of a town over here
A HORRIBLE THREAT.
Sir Henry Parkes has received several savage letters from the Sydney unemployed, who
threaten to cut —his hair.
would cheerfully tramp barefooted across an oyster-
bed five miles long to be present at such a highly
intellectual “swarry.”
# * *
Cecil De Vere, described as a duly qualified
surgeon, was sentenced to three months’ hard
labour for stealing a flute, which he pawned.—
Sydney paper.
We have another little centenary idea
which we have been keeping for the last. Parkes,
as everyone knows, is old, and he is getting no
younger very fas*. His political duties often keep
him out so late that he doesn’t go home till morn-
ing—till daylight doth appear—and when he
arrives home half a length ahead of the milk it
often happens that the night air has got into his
chest and this makes him bark at breakfast. Also
he is so much rushed after by dukes, emperors,
rich lord 3 in yachts, marquises, and Chinamen,
that he has no time for the social amenities of life,
and while other men are enjoying themselves he
is holding up the mortgaged edifice of his coun-
try's greatness. Consequently, it would be a
good idea to give him a rest. A grateful nation
might well afford to stand him a cottage with a
cow and a hen thrown in, a place where the
woodbine twineth, where he could go to bed early
with a hot-water bot'le at his feet and writing
materials on a table handy, so that if a pootic idea
happened to strike him durmg the night, he could
leap out of bed at once and make a note of it.
Then he could rest in peace on his beam ends in
the autumn of his days, and perpetrate pamphlets
decked with scraps of dog-Latin, instead of hav-
ing to rise to order every five minutes when one
member called another member a thief, a liar,
and something lower than a horse in order to keep
the ship of State from getting aground. Out of
sympathy for an overworked old man, Parkes
ought certainly to be shifted out this centenary.
• * »
They were all trying to break the record
in tales of adventure, having camped for the
night on their way to Queensland with cattle.
After yarns had been told, calculated to make
Tiger Inglis look small, one chap chipped in about
an emu who had stuck him up on the Darling,
showed fight, and not only drove his dog off, but
actually chased him (the dog) for dear life till he
had to climb a tree for safety. “ But dogs don’t
climb trees,” remarked one dubious listener.
“ Don’t they.” was the reply ; “ well, by heavens,
this one had to I"
* * *
The New South Wales Marine Beard, long
celebrated as a briny delusion of the first magni-
tude, has again been getting Ps name up. Ac-
cording to the deputation which waited on
Treasurer Burns last week the board is a chuckle-
headed institution which give 3 a wrong decision
in nine cases out of ten, and which never by any
accident does anything that any other gathering
of white men would dream of doing, or does it in
a way that is not calculated to make a Hottentot
shudder. When a big collison takes place at sea
the chances are ten to one that they bring in a
verdict that the public-house was struck by light-
| niug, and after a loDg and painstaking inquiry
into a shipwreck they generally end by suspending
! the certificate of some unhappy individual who
died on dry land ten years before, and who never
owned one at all except from the insolvency court.
And on top of this it is alleged that the board
issues certificates indiscriminately to bishops,
butchers, priests, and pirates, cooks, and coal-
heavers—to anyone, inbhort, who can pay 305.; and
that in a general sort of way its intellect is over-
grown with grass, and It doesn't know enough to
keep from fooling with a dynamite bomb or to get
out of the road of a camel. Next week, probably,
the Board will probably have something to say in
return about the deputation which will make it
go out and get its hair cut, and then there will be
an interview between the two bodies which will
end amid stifled cries of “Help!’ “Murder 1”
“ Sit on his chest!” “ Here, don’t knock my head
against the wall!” “Pleece!’ and the like, and
then another deputation will wait on the Trea-
surer, and the Treasurer will borrow a hunk of
butter from the deputation, and the deputation
will borrow the Treasurer’s clothes-line, and -but
this paragraph is sinking into undignified levity,
so we will stop.
»
The latest reliable computation gives
92,562,000 miles as the distance of the earth from
the sun. It is considered extremely improbable
that England will b 8 able to colonise it.
Evidently the king of the Cannibal
Islands is still in good form, thanks to the sum-
mary manner in which he deals with patent medi-
cine hawkers, and his taste for “ki-ki” is as
keen as ever. A trader, named De Latour, of
Malo, S. S. Islands, reports that three boatmen
belonging to the schooner Mary Anderson were
recently n'pped by the natives, bound hand and
foot, carried to an adjacent island, and, as Latour
says, sold for pigs. The purchasers cooped and
fattened them up, and then, after inviting their
friends, they poll-axed the prize victims, cooked
them as baked, boiled, and roast in their best
style, and held a Jubilee banquet which knocked
spo's off anything of the kind ever held before,
and c overed the reign of the “long pigs’” pre-
eminently sympathetic queen with a halo of glory
that could be seen and smelt for 50 miles around.
The only difference between the civilised and the
savage mode of celebrating a Jubilee seems to be
in the character of the viands.
Sir Andrew Clarke, cf London, who, by
the bye, is not a herbalist practising on another
man’s diploma, asserts that the greater part of the
human race is permanently ill. Health, he says, is—
” That state ia which the body is not consciously present
to us; the state in which to work is easy and duty not over
great a trial, the state in which it is a joy to see, to think, to
feel, and to be.”
We know that state. The Sydney police call it
“ dhrunk an’ disorderly,’ yer banner, an’ fearin’
me uniform in the execution of me duty.” Only
the other night we were going home from our
duties at a rather late hour and we saw a per-
fectly healthy man chase another three blocks and
then jump on him. We don’t know how things
may be in London, but in N. S. W. it costs more
than an ordinary man is worth to keep his body
from bsiDg consciously present to him for more
than a week at a time.
Dear sir,—The allowance, though wretchedly
small,
For cleansing and warming our Public School
Hall;
For the future is not to be granted at all,
And we’ve got to make other arrangements.
This means the unfortunate teacher must pay
From his very inadequate salary, say .
From twopence to sixpence threefarthings a day
As the cost of these cleaning arrangements.
Now this method of mulcting the pedagogue’s
screw '*fl|l
For all sort of contingent expanses won t do,
We have borne it like Issachar’s ass hitherto,
But we mean to make other arrangements.
For cleanliness, godliness, order, and each
Department of morals we’re ready to teach.
But they want us to practise as well as to preach,
So it’s time to make other arrangements.
The public school teachers in conclave have sat,
And have come to decision unanimous that
The only thing left is to send round the hat,
And we hope you will like the arrangement 1
For if you don’t part, in a very short while
A post in the playground, an old Scottish style,
With—“ God bless his Grace the great Duke of
Argyle
Must be our ulterior arrangement!
KOKO TIGER INGLIS.
Let us endeavour to pump up a tear
O’er this sad indiscretion of Cecil Da Vere.
Blessed with a name that all Tories revere,
Things have gone crooked with Cecil De Yere.
At Smith or at Brown it is common to sneer—
But the world feels respect for a Cecil De Vere.
Swell ladies by dozens have called him “ a dear ”
And languished their sweetest at Cecil Da Yere.
Time was that he moved in an elegant sphere,
Yet now he picks oakum —poor Cecil Da Vere f
He sleeps in a cell very chilly and drear—
How awfully trying for Cecil De Vere !
Such small creature comforts as baccy and beer
Are sternly forbidden to Cecil Da Vere.
“ Three months” for purloining a flute is severe
When passed on a masher, like Cecil De Vere.
It wasn’t as though he’d a musical ear,
For the flute had been •‘spouted” by Cecil De
Vere.
In pawning that instrument really it’s clear
That he thought of the public, did Cecil Da Vere
Recollect that he might have made listeners queer
With “ The Last Rose of Summer,” by Cecil De
Vere.
So, all things considered, most certainly we’re
Disposed to think kindly of Cecil Da Vere.
The law in this case has bean hard and austere—
There are lots of worse sinners than Cecil Da Vere.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
0. J. Cresswell, a Victorian attorney, has
skipped with £3OOO trust-money.
Mayor Smith, of Adelaide, has a limb of
the tree under which'explorer Burke died.
Admiral John Eiphinstone Erskine,
F.R G.S., who dif d recently, was 81 years old.
A Government pension i 3 to be granted to
the widow of the late Chief Justice Giblin, of
Tasmania.
Mr. H. H. Schlapp, the Broken Hill
(N.S.W.) Silver Mining Co.’s smelter, gets £3OOO a
year salary.
Her Gracious kissed the black Queen of
Hawaii. After all, it was only one foreign lady
saluting another.
Lord Colin Campbell passed through the
Insolvency Court last month, and received a
divorce from his duns. him
Mr Donald Crawford, Dilke’s friend, is
about to venture in marriage again with a hand-
some wealthy young lady.
The Deffell himself is now on the N.S.W.
Supreme Court bench. We always did think it
would come to this at last.
We are not surprised that the Queen re-
fused to give her name to some hospital beds. She
always was a thrifty woman.
Mr. James Thompson is getting on in the
world. He is about to pay another visit to Lon-
don, this time on private business.
The full title of the newly-created Bishop
Hutchinson, of N. Queensland, is Bishop of
Maximianopolis. This sounds like aboriginal
Greek.
It came out in court the other day that a
certain Sydney “ financier,” one Meinrath, trades
as “ Baring and Co.” Meinrath ! Baring and
Co. ! Whew !
The editor of a humorous paper published
in Mexico has been gaoled for libelling Queen
Victoria. There’s some judge in Mexico filling
for a C M.G.-ship.
James M Kean, the giganlic Melbourne
attorney, says he can’t make out why the papers
are alwajs i itching into him. And then ho adds
thoughtfully, “ It’s true—/m tall."
It is understood that Mr. Peter Lalor,
upon retiring from the Speakership of the Vic-
torian Legislative Assembly, will devote his
leisure to writing his autobiography.
The latest about the dusky Queen of
Hawaii is that she was seen trying to set her
watch by the dial of an automatic weighing-
machine in a London railway station.
Dr. Fitzpatrick, Vicar-General of the
It.C. Archdiocese of Melbourne, is seriously iIL
He is the oldest priest in Australia, having spOTt
40 out of the 77 years of his life in Victoria.
The Most Noble the Marquis of Nor-
manby proposes to winter in Vic oria. It is
gratifying for Victorians to reflect that upon this
occasion he will have to pay his own expanses.
Mr. J. Cyril M. Weale, ex-secretary to
the NSW. Licensed Victuallers’ Association, in-
tends to devote his time to literary pursuits.
This is going from bad to worse with a vengeance.
By Dr. Cortis’ Bill for abolishing medical
quacks in N.S.W. the assumption of the title of
doctor will be a misdemeanour. This is a case
where a retrospective clause would entail a new
gaol.
John Newland, the oldest Mason in New
Zealand, died the other day, aged 87 years. He
joined the craft in 1824, but at his request
Masonic honours were dispensed with at his
funeral.
Judge Dowling, of the Sydney District
Court, has a sovereign specific for unhappiness.
“Pay your debts,” he says to poor devils who
come before him on ca. sa.’s, “and you’ll be a
happy man.”
It is reported that a “ moustache show ”
is contemplated in Melbourne. Dr Madden, C.
F. Taylor (barrister), Judge Casey, George Rig-
nold, and J. C. Neild (Sydney), will probably be
asked to act as j udges.
Sir Julius Von Haast, K.C.M.G., who
shook off the mortal coil last week in Auckland
(N.Z.), was a great authority on the moa. The
moa is extinct, but we are sorry that we cannot
say as much for the K.C.M.G.
The bones of the renowned aboriginal
chief, Cumerah, have been unearthed at Gunne-
dah (N S.W.), where they have lain for about 100
years. They ara baiDg preserved—probably for
interment in Parkes’ deadhouse.
Sheriff Cowper told the Wilcannia
(N.S W.) people that he hopes to open the first
Supreme Court on the Darling. What Sheriff
Cowper really meant to say was that he hoped to
hang the first man on the Darling.
“Jack Hinton,” yardman at M‘Lean's
store, WodoDga, has just tumbled into honey in
the shape of £125,000 cash, in addition to 49 acres
of town property in Dumfrieshire, Scotland, by
the decease of an obliging grandfather.
J. M. Christie, the Victorian athlete and
customs officer, was married last week to a Miss
Ellmore. Christie is son of a Captaih in the Ben-
gal Artillery. It is often only when a man dies or
marries that you come to know who he is.
A letter of Eugene Aram, who was exe-
cuted for murdering Daniel Clarke in 1759, has
just been sold in London, together with a portion
of Clarke’s skull, a bone of Eugene Aram, and a
box made from the wood of Aram’s gibb3t I
Alfred Deakin, in the Victorian Assembly,
referred to Dr. L. L Smith, as ‘ 1 the medical ad-
viser of the Opposition ” Naturally, this made
Bent, Gaunson, and Co feel unwell, young man
It was a pretty rough remark, when you come to
look into it.
A Macleay (N.S.W.) man, who has twice
filed his “ shovel,” gives notice in a local paper
that he has paid all his creditors, save the lawyers,
whom he tells to “go whistle,” as he would rather
throw the money into the fire than that they
should get it.
It seems that the Bulgarians have been
kneeling to Princs Ferdinand and soliciting the
honour of touching His Highness’ garments. This
reads like a revival of the “ Bulgarian atrocities ”
of former years. Pagh ! Wouldn’t we like to
touch their garments—with a boot!
According to the Referee there are a
couple of titled waiters in the employ of Spiers
and Pond, while a third noble is a notorious dog-
stealer at the East End of London. This is what
baronets come to when circumstances compel
them to earn their own living. Taking orders


for mutton chops and prigging stray poodles.
Let us be thankful that our baronet—Sir William
Clarke— isn't called upon to earn his own living.
The man who furnished Parkes with the
material out of which the Kiama Ghost vtai
built is now ore of the leaders of the Wollongong
Salvation Army. The said army includes two
converted deadbeats, a Chinaman, and a kanaka,
A Kensington (Eng.) clergyman, who ap-
peared as defendant in a recent action for main-
tenance, admitted that he had married at nineteen,
had had eight children, and seduced the plaintiff,
a girl of seventeen, when he was thirty eight years
old. And still he ministers to the innocents.
Judge M‘Farlatid sentenced a man at
Bombala (N.S.W.) to four years’ hard labour for
stealing a sheep. Henry Hart Lazarus is doing
,the same term for annexing about £9OOO-
- batter to have made a haul
Than to have stolen something small.
“Last Sunday evening a R C. clergyman
•in Sydney” (says a correspondent) ‘held up in his
. sermon the late Sir John O Slanassy, of Victoria
,(by name), as the model of, a Christian statesman.
An old Victorian who was presant and never ad-
mired O’Shanassy went into the porch till the
,sermon was over.”
Constable Edward Siwell—an Irishman—
-has been doing police du L y in the streets oE
Bathurst for the past thirty-five years. He was
•on duty 33 year 3 ago when the last public execu-
tion took placa in the city of the plains. He still
wears “ wan sthrire,” but he wears it with more
dignity than many in the foorca wear the Crown.
;Ned has never been promoted. No one knows
why, unless his brogue has kept him back.
Mr. J. Williams, secretary of the Mel-
bourne Hospital, was made a J.P. recently oa the
pretext that his beakship would come in handy
when dying depositions had io he taken in the in-
stitution. The danger of leaving such important
matters to amateur magistrates was exemplified
in the trial of Quinlan on a charge cf ehooQng his
wife at Hotham. The depositions of tho dying
woman were informal, and couldn’t be used.
Dr. Hemy W. Lentsigne, of Hunter’s
Hill, Sydney, who shot himself dead last week,
was the son of Sir John Lenta’gne, Bart, M.D.,
of Dublin. Deceased was left-nanded, and the
shot pierced his left temple. His father was a
Privy Councillor, and held several official appoint-
ments in Iceland. Deceased uncle, the I lev. l)r.
Lentaigne, formerly a barrister, founded the
Jesuits in Australia. The family was of French
extraction.
Mr. Lionel Clung writes from Mary-
borough (Q.) complaining that This Bulletin
took him for a Chinaman. We have no recollection
of attaching this gross insult to Mr. Ching, but
we this opportunity to state thit hg is not a
Chinaman, that he never was a Chinaman, and
that he couldn't be one if he tried. If this ex-
planation is not suffioisnt, ws are prepared to
further testify that Mr. Ching wou’d rather be a
horse than a Chinaman.
Lord Lucan, who directed tbe cavalry
charge at Balaklava, and where Irish evictions
are creating a noise just now, went, immediately
after the Crimean War, into a railway refresh-
ment room in England, to obtain a bottle of soda-
water. While tbe attendant was undoing tbe
wire the Balaklava man raised his hand to pro-
tect his face in case of acc’deat, when the Heoe,
who did not know Lucan, contemptuously ob-
served that he “ would make a bid soldier.
Dr. Madden, the note! Melbourne bar-
rister, told a couple of queer anecdotes to a jury
the other day. At the crossing-place of a certain
river this intimation was struck oa the end of a
pole : “ Wnen tnis notice is covered by the water
the ford is dangerous.” Again. The o wner of
a piece of land set up this warning : * Any per-
son found trespassing here will be prosecu.ed
with the utmost rigour of tbe law. leraons
unable to read this notice will apply at the pub-
lic-house.”
When that fiery Kerristian, Dr. Grattan
Guinness, went back to Europe, he left his
lieutenant, Mr. Frederick Mellen, to carry on the
Loard’s work. Mellen prayed himself into tho
position of Secretary to the United Mercantile
Society cf Australasia, and now he's off to \ urrup
with all the subscribed capital. Speaking from
personal recollection of this defaulting lamb, when
he was dropping souls into the Fountain at Mel-
bourne Theatre Royal, we should say that Provi-
dence intended him for an Adelaide hank-manager.
Mr. Deakin’s habit of wearing coloured
goggles provoked something of a scene in the
Victorian Legislative Assembly the other mght.
The irrepressible Gaunson, resenting the omer
Secretary’s custom of hiding the expressive play
of his features with the obnoxious glasses, said
that he liked to see the hon. gentleman with
the blinds up and the shutters down. ,
Chairman of Committees endeavoured in vain to
induce the member for Emerald Hill to withdraw,
and progress had to be reported in the midst or
Mr. Cooper’s dignified remonstrances.
An old and brilliant pressman has just
retired from work crowned with well-won laurels.
We refer to Mr. A. L. Whitby, editor of that
genial and powerful organ, the Victorian Govern-
ment Gazette. Mr. Whitby’s brilliant sallies
under the head of “ Impoundings,” in which are
narrated the troubles of the poley-cow with one
eye and the disaster which overtook the oa a-
faced horse branded C M,G. on near hind-leg, wi
never be forgotten, and his masterly expositions
of questions of finance in the popular form of
“Insolvencies” are classics of the English lan-
guage.
George Syme, brother of David Syme, of
the Melbourne Age, and formerly editor of the
Leader (published at the Age office), has now a
son—G. A. Sym3, junr.—practising medicine in
Melbourne. Dr. Syme is Mr. G Syraes on y
child. He has been educated for his profession in
England,from whencehehaslatelyreturned. George
Syme has alio been at home for some years. He
is a retired Bantist clergyman of rather ritualistic
tendencies. He says he should like to have,
amongst other things, statues in his church.
“Joe” Syme, of the Melbourne firm—son of the
late Ebanozer Syme, the genius of the family
also had a brother a medical man.
An attempt is being made to induce the
Victorian Parliament to reward a deserving man
for a national service. Over 10 years ago Mr. J.
Lockhardt Morton, then a Victorian squatter,
invented the swing gate which is now in universal
use on Australian sheep stations. There were
then no patent laws in Victoria, and consequently
Mr. Morton never reaped one penny from his
valuable invention. He now finds hims3lf in his
old age without sufficient means, and is asking
the Victorian Parliament to grant him a II years
royalty for his own invention. The only opposi-
tion to Mr. Morton’s not unreasonable demand
comes from the squatters, to whom the sjvmg'guto
h as been an inestimable boon.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Victoria has lost £lOO,OOO a year by the
abolition of the beer duty.
N.S.W. Parliament is to be further pro-
rogued to September 20. Staving off the day of
judgment.
Only eight members in the S.A. Assembly
voted for a motion in favour of electing their own
Governor.
English officials drawing handsome salaries
in Burmah possess a monopoly of the purchase of
Crown land?.
A N.Z. candidate for Parliament has pro-
cured and published a doctor’s certificate that he
is not “ off his chump.”
Hume Back, M.L. A., the returned
Separation delegate, advises the formation of a
third in North Queensland.
W. P. M‘Gregor, M.L.A. for Wentworth,
who never showed up in Parliament since his
election, is to resign to make way for Russell
Barton.
A daily paper correspondent asks that the
new postage stamps may bear “aphotographof Her
Majesty.” He must want to make Australia a
Republic.
Mr. Garvan thinks that Minister Clarke
must have been converted from Protection by
Mr. Wise’s arguments on “ the moral aspect of
Freetrade.”
The Age (Melb.) objects to the Australian
Natives’ Association on tbe tangible ground that
“it draws a distinction between the youth and
his father.”
The Melbourne Age’s London man deplores
that “it would seem that Eagland his no longer
THE WAY TO LEABN SPELLING.
In the course of his recent trip Mr. Abigail learned all about the rabbits.
F . A. (loq.) : “IS THEY WAN ‘B’ OR TWO IN RABBUTS, I WONDER?”
any national dignity to lose.” No, not after the
Jubilee grovel.
The Victorian Trades and Labour organi-
sations mean to absolutely stop Chinese immigra-
tion. “ Chinese or no Chinese ” will be the test
question at next general election.
Each. German in Kaiser Wi'helmsland,
New Guinea, has bad on an average four attacks
of fever It is utterly hopeless for the I reach to
expect to ha able to wipe out such a race. >
The S A. Assembly has scouted Cohens
proposal that the colony thould choosa its own
Governor. Qaite right. It has the privilege of
paying him, and what more does it want.
Bun* Hi and Co. took £4OOO entrusted to
thembyCooktown (Q.) Chinese for distribution
among their slant eyed relatives an Lepar Land.
No wonder ex-Treasurer Dickson had a deficit.
One of the speakers at a recenf election
meeting at Brighton (Eng ) .And what
is Joe (Chamberlain) going to do now ? wnj,
marry a duchess,” shouted a man from the crowd
Parkes alleges that in this country he sees
nothing to prevent the minimum of wretchedness
maximum of happiness for the human
race. Rather rough on Freetraders to call thun
nothing.
Said John Stuart Mill Ido not even
~ ,jf T wore an American I would not be a
say that if I were Mffl had Uved in
di ys bo pulveris ing
Pulsford. , , -r i t> •
Svdnev D.T. declares that John Bright >
mind has not moved from its
SU a
century ago. ,
* Af a parade in Calcutta recently the men
of the Leinster Regiment were unable to get the
cartridgeskito the breeches of the r new rifles
Tommy Atkins will eventually have to fight with
a “ bit of a shtick.
It is noticeable that Parkes is always ill
immediately after one of his visits to the country
constituencies. Leading physicians ( insider that
it Is merely the lassitude which always follows an
acute attack cf logorrhcea.
J. G. Duff/, M.L A. of Victoria, says
that he once got a hill through the Assembly en-
abling women to take University degrees, but
that it was thrown out by the Legislative Council
—because old women are always jealous of young
girls.
“ I consider Samuel Griffith the greatest
statesman in Australia,” said John Osborne at his
meeting in Sydney New Masonic. “tVhat about
Abigail ?” yelled one of the crowd. “I am speak-
ing of statesmen, not of political insects,” was the
reply.
The duty of 3s. 4d. per cwb, on paper
having been removed, the Liverpool (N.S.W.)
paper mi'l proprietors are compelled to reduce
their employees’ wages 20 per cent. after Saptem-
her 1 Niw, Mr. Pulsford, give us some more
figures.
Zox, of the Victorian Parliament, thinks
that the N.S. W. legislature has set a good ex-
i ample in ttie divorce law to Australia. This is a
' doubtful compliment when we consider tbat ex-
traordinary legislation is called forth by the ex-
i traordinary necessity for if
From the Times, November 4, 1859 :
! “ The destiny of a nation ought to be determined, not by
the opinions of other nations, but by the opinions of the
nation itself. To decide whether they are well-governed or
not is for tho3B who.live under that government.”
This knocks whole colums of “Parnellism and
Crime ” into a cocked hat.
Ginger Clarke had the Wilcannia school
children “up to their necks” in mental arith-
i metic during his visit there. He chiefly exercised
| them on questions respecting the price of laud-
| frontages. Habigle modestly stood by and never
once offered to give a spelling lesson.
Lord Charles Bercsford has written to
Dr. Creed, M.L.C., stating that the defences of
the N. U .W. naval coasting-stations will receive
his earnest attention. From this we presume
that another shipment of cracked cannon and
pewter bayonets will come to hand on an early
I date.
The Arcus of August 12 has two and a
half columns of European news, into which the
Irish question is not dragged, and in which the
Irish are not slandered. It however makes up
for this lapsus on the following day, by giving a
whole columu manufactured expressly for the
purpose. .
Gat your glasses, Pulsford, and read this :
The fiscal year, ended June 30, shows the revenue
of the U.S.A. to be £74,276,178 and the total
expenses £53,703.238. The net decree in the
public debt durian the year was £21,9415-.). The
interest on the debt decreased £6OO 000. The
treasury chartered 217 new banks during the
year, making 3008 national banks in operation.
During a recent Council squabble at Five
Dock, Sydney, some rising benefactor of the age
started a dog fight in the hall with the satisfac-
tory result that “the aldermen could not hear
themselves speaking.” This is about the moat
effective application of the homoeopathic simiha
similibus cur antur theory we have met. We
earnestly commend it to the notice of the Speaker
of the Legislative Assembly.
The Victorian Government has every
chance of retaining office so long as the present
breach in the ranks of the Opposition remains un-
closed. A kind of triangular duel is being fought
between Bent, Patterson, and Munro, while mde-
l pendent members like Duffy. M‘lntyre, and Carter
are playing a waiting game, In a word, Mr.
Gillie 3 and his colleagues hold their port olios not
! 90 much on account of their own strength as
because of the weakness of their opponents.
Some special Jubilee slobber over the
Indian princes resulted unpleasantly for V ictoria
by the Grace of God. It seems that when
Maharajah Holkar was decorated with the Star
of Something, he refused, point blank, to kneel to
his gracious Queen Mother. Subsequently he
| took himself off to India in a huff As the son
of a man who “ turned dog” on his own people
during the Mutiny, Holkar was reckoned a shining
eISIV o(“■»&. loyalty; What price the
article when it is fairly tested ?
Cooktown Independent calls N.b.W. a
servile follower of an Imperial policy which is
bringing it but bankruptcy for its l reetrade, and
says the best way to treat it is to “isolate it in its
old womanhood." Also it urges Queensland to
buy from Victoria :
11 Parkes,” it remarks, 11 professes Liberalism, but does not
feel himsjlf strong enough to light the large importers, who
are fatteniag ou Freetrade; he lores oftiie and power better
than posterity, and can always command political toadies
like Pulsford, ready to show by lying pamphlets that h ! s
colony, with nearly three millions deficit, is in a more pros-
perous condition than V.ctoria with its magnificent public
works and its surplus of close upon a million when all is
computed."
A deputation of unemployed waited on
Nimmo, Minister of Public Works, Melbourne,
list week to ask for work, and the Argus says :
“ After making some rather impudent remarks about the
money spent by the Cabinet on the celebration of the
Queen’s Jubilee, the men withdrew.”
The man who made the impudent remarks about
the extravagance of ihe Cabinet was a starving
cabinetmaker named Edwards, who was at
libe tty to go and make his own coffin if he could get
the wood on credit, while the members of the
Cabinet and other heavy swells fared sumptuously
at somebody else's expense.
The Clermont (Q.) establishment is now
run wholly and entirely by the copper-vimgrd
Celestials. They outnumber the palefacs by two
to one, and when the latter attempted to iump
some claims held by Mongols without minors
rights, they went for the white trash and
threatened to wipe them out with their pickaxes
if they did not simmer down. The whites had to
give them besQ but the Warden telegraphed tho
state of things to Brisbane, and asked for assist-
ance in maintaining law and order. Meanwhile
they of the Flowery Land have got up a petition
setting forth their case, aud— shade of tlie
prophet i —have got numerous Europeans to sign
it.
The co-operation of labour against capital
is coming. Instead of fighting the wealthy pro-
prietors by strikes, the artisans of the future will
compete against them. In New Zealand the Sea-
men’s Union has chartered three steamers to com.
pete against the northern companies’ services.
This is a step in the right direction. Let work-
men’s unions, instead of wasting their funds in
useless strikes, which, though c«r ~nly harming
capital to the extent of causing the cct sition of in-
terest, also barm the workmen to an incalculable
extent, combine against capital, and by amalga-
mation dispense with it. The closest calculation
shows that they can at least make three per cent,
besides drawing their present rate of wages.
Writes “ Pendragon,’ of the Kefer.ee,
anent Jubilee grovel : “I am perfectly well
aware that it is impossible to argue on a matter
of this sort without being liable to a charge o'!
disloyalty from creatures whose souls are nor
their own, and who, while they sneer and jeer at
the African or the Mongol idolator, worship false
gods of their own—of their own creation—gods of
the paltriest and least worth worshipping descrip-
tion.” The same week that thi3 was published in
London The Bulletin printed
11 Britons send missions to save our black brother,
Who bows to a fetish of wood or of stone,
Yet worship an idol more vain than aught other—
A Queen on a Throne."
The unanimity of sentiment is worth noticing.
When Secretary Pulsford, of the Sydney
Freetrade Association, wished to comment upo i
Mr. Osborne’s recent speeoh, he thought it advis-
able to do so in the friendly atmosphere of a com-
mittee meeting of his own ga-g. Freetrado
doesn't dare now to show in a public hall, aud
before an audience of the people. Toe days for
such meetings have gone past A Sydney crowd,
half of them unemployed, are getting an unpleas-
ant habit o£ opposing cabbage stalks to Freetrade
sophistries, and that’s why the annual meeting of
the Association has been postponed till egg 3 are
scarcer and Victorian cabhage3 out of the market.
If the meeting is to come off between now and
Doomsday, it will have to be he'd either in a
church or a coal-cellar. The latter locality would
be the most appropriate to tho purpose.
According to an old Tory doctrine the
British House of Lord 3 is an august institution
which came down to us from our forefathers, and
which these crumbled old parties venerated to an
extent that was positively heartrending. Some-
how this doesn t seem to be quite right. In Saxon
times the people used to gather together aud
spank bishops and noblemen when travelling
through the country on their way to Parliament,
and a law had to he passed for the protection of
all peers who were not “notorious thieves and
robbers.” And only 300 years ago a proclamation
was issued begging the English peerage to desist
from the practice of “stealing keys, picking locks
or breaking open the trunks of foreign noblemen
visiting the country.” The House of Lords was the
same beautiful institution from first to last.
The bland colonial solicitor would rather
perish than allude to his client otherwise than as
“ we,” and this leads him at times into difficul-
ties. For instance, in the Magistrates’ Court at
Napier, N.Z., the other day, a small man with a
confidential smile rose and stated as follows:
“ We repudiate our liability, your worship, be-
cause we were lunatics at the time the debt wa3
contracted. We have medical evidence to prove
we were lunatics, your worship.”
Dear Bulletin,— Last year I informed
you of the superstition of the Castlereagh and
Warrumbungle people, but I did not think it had
spread so as to attack a Municipal Council What
do you think of a corporate body voting £5 to a
charlatan with a willow-stick to search for water
within the municipality ? It was actually done,
aud as a justification it is urged that the magician
did point to a spot where they got water (salt) at
70 or 80 feat. The fact that it is always obtain-
able in the district at that depth does not tell
against the diviner, and although fre3h wa'er was
wanted and is generally easily got at 20 to 30 feet,
it i 3 still satisfactory to know that the divining-
rod never fails when it succeeds. I have been
diagnosing the mental aberration of the township
in question, and I find the disease is Northern
Hib jrnianism on the cerebellum or little brain.
They have nothing worth calling cerebrum, One
of them has confidently imparted to me a scheme
for filling the western waters of the country with
eels, a 3 he knows that horsehairs placed
in ’water invariably change into the fish
in question. He has likewise informed
me that at his native village of Dunfahy a fleet
of Scotch fishermen was destroyed in a storm,
but that three Scotch women came over and hied
a pint each into a cup, aud then walked naked
into the sea, and at neck-deep drank the blood :
from which time no Scotchman has been drowned
at Dunfahy and the herrings have disappeared.
After what I have told you there is no room for
wonder that it is proposed to plant the Govern-
ment gift of trees in a row down the centre of
each street so that a cart cannot cro33 from one
store to another but must pass round (by the
corner pubs.) the end of the street. This will ii-
crease the only lively business iu the town. I refei
to “What’s yours?” and I am yours as us aa’,
Hiram Abiff.


J hr
r "up vo* w ‘° ‘
"Jiti //£A*y-“
jT cfee ?vj/ coccy out of- ty'k
fty
fast, fro/p/se o/cc
tty #s-<o / *
7~/p //a/e. efetysyctcth
//>/$ W//T /a /q, j/s
\ //y/af/op y/~ y
“OUR BEAUTIFUL BOUR.”-THE SILT QUESTION.


O h -i&
'row
k i ' Jk
„Tp~ ~ ;
hk'iu i.v-
nfljllJfcSf
h f 0
, V cle °
<^ C L /, >
elf/ ; e r:
y i
/ry'
BOUR.”-THE SILT QUESTION.


Society
“ He commenced his min'sterial duties on
a salary of £l4 a year, and while it had never ex-
ceeded £240, the average during his 23 years’ ser-
vice had been just £166.” — Vide Queensland
paper, August 10th, 1887. This was the utter-
ance of an aged pastor who had simultaneously
lost his only son and his eyesight, and it was part
of his statement in acknowledging a “lengthy
framed and illuminated address” and a purse of
sovereigns which, from appearances, contained
less than 20. And the pillar of the poor old man’s
church is a financial magnate who rides to service
in a carriage and pair with silver mountings.
“These be thy gods, O Israel!” Here is what
the local weekly had to say about this particu-
lar pillar only a day or two before :—“ Mr.
purchased yesterday a block of land near .
The price was £10,700 cash.” “Angels and
ministers of grace defend us! ’ Goldsmith’s
village pastor was “passing rich on £4O a
year,” but here in sunny Queensland are people
who count their wealth by hundreds of thousands
allowing their half-blind and wholly worn-out
family confessor to starve on a less wage than
they got when they themselves carried the hod,
and when their wife made the apples shine in the
little shop with her apron. And of such is the
kingdom of Heaven.
* * *
The latest coronial pronunciamento in
Melbourne has been a sweeping one against Mrs.
Winslow's soothing syrup, because the baby died
instead of “ waking up”—to quote the advertise-
ment —“ bright as a button.” Several years ago
Dr. Youl so emphatically denouncedcolonialbßer as
poisonous that the Government had a number of
samples analysed by Cosmo Newberry. Just to
see how soon ’twould kill them, the Professor
placed a lot of gold fish in a glass bowl full of
the suspected liquor; but instead of dying, they
lived and grew nearly as large as herrings ! Per-
haps the salt agreed with them. Who knows ?
* * *
A Tasmanian M.L. A. stood up in Parlia-
ment the other day to support a small increase in a
Civil servant’s screw because the official did not
belong to the “ £5OO a year kid-glove gentlemen. 1 ’
Then another member explained that the man
wanted to marry, whereupon the increase was
passed amid general approval. A fellow feeling
makes us wondrous kind.
* * #
A small black boy and a Roman Catholic
servant gal reside in the same family at Cairns
(Q.) On a recent Friday evening the boss of the
household noticed a grin on the dark youth’s face
like unto a Parliamentary candidate’s smile, and
inquired the cause of his joy, to which young
Sambo replied :“ By gob, b 053,1 wish it fast day
ebery day. Suppose dat gal not eat meat, dis
fellow eat him. My word !” and he rubbed his
sable sides with satisfaction.
* * *
The Sydney man of the Melbourne Argus
wiring about the opening cf the “ Redemptorist ”
Monastery at Waratah says that “ at the luncheon
the toast of the Pope wa3 given precedence to
that of the Queen on the ground of the religious
superiority, of His Holiness.”
* • •
Says the Argus (August 13th) re the
Jubilee honours: “An English baron (Londes-
borough) who is more a notoriety than a celebrity,
is made an earl.” The Argus then explains :“ It
was in his house that the Prince of Wales caught
typhoid fever 16 years ago.” Well, if that’s all,
there are plenty of houses even in “ Marvellous
Melbourne" where the Prince aid the whole
Royal Family, including “ Her Grashus,” could
catch all the diseases that flesh is heir to, from
leprosy to Asiatic cholera.
* * *
Albert Ivortlang, of Ballarat (Vic.), arrived
home the other day to find a little Protectionist
baby had arrived. It was his first, and he felt so
wild all over that he ran to the Courier office
and put in this :
“ J£ORTLANG.—On the 12th August. Happy as a
Mug. Grod l 'ck to the princ*. Both Al."
Apparently, however, the new baby proved to be
a howler ; at all events it seems not to have been
quite the baby it was at first supposed to be, and
a few days later the exuberant pa went down
slowly and soberly to the same Courier office
and solemnly dumped this on the counter
“ J^ORTLANG.—On the 12th August, afi*Bridge-street,
the wife of Albert Kortlang of a son '
What a falling off was there 1
* * •
Agony Ad. from the Melbourne Argus :
“LENA.—AVant £l, in need. Got bottle, 9 p.m. front
aoor. Love.”
The beast didn’t get the price of the spree, for
which the milk-jug at the door only whetted his
appetite. Then he prints the following whine :
“LENA.—Do htln at once, Saturday. Success 9 p.m ,
frent door. Letter. Love, hungry.”
We should like to hear Pastor Jefferis worry these
texts to pieces.
» * *
A suggestive item. In a little Western
N.S.W. town there wa«, until recently, a publican
who, though he for eighteen years held a license,
was never known to buy a load of stuff. When
the licensing inspector last visited his place his
stock consisted of half a bottle of very question-
able brandy.
* * *
The statement made by the Sydney daily
papers at the instance of Lady CariDgton to the
effect that no part of the so-called Queen’s Fund
is intended as a personal present to Her Majesty
or for any purpose outside the colony, is signifi-
cant. It seems that the Fund was paralysed pre-
viously to this announcement. If Lady Caring-
ton will take a hint she will change th 9 name of
the Fund ; for it is safe to say that were it not for
her ladyship’s own personal influence and popu-
larity, and the frantic desire on the part of the
wives and daughters of suburban aldermen to
have some kind of connection, no matter how
remote, with Government House, the movement
wonld have been as dead as Queen Anne long ago.
The name is against it, and unless it be re-baptieed
it will not advance much beyond its present paltry
dimensions.
* *
It happened at a certain recent ball.
There were two of them—a youth and a maiden,
and she was endeavouring to surround a custard
ball, the crust of which resembled old shoe-
leather. After a courageous tussle she gave the
job up, meanwhile remarking in a business-like
tone to her fawning adorer, “I tell you what,
Jack, if they’d given pa the contract for the
victuals, we’d have sent ’em in fresh pastry, at
any rate.” Fact.
« « «
Observe how the wily S.M. Herald re-
porter, sent to pencil the pro:eedirgs at the re-
turn ball, slips out of the (to him) Herculean task
of describing the ladies’ dresses by saying :
“ Amorg the ordinary evening costumes of the
ladies the predominating materials and colours
were such as gave a bright and charming effect.”
You see he has silenced each tongue, for the girls
who object to be called “ bright ” can fall back on
“ charming.”
* # *
The saddest nigger item we have realtor
years is this, from the S.M. Herald :
“ A good deal of interest was excited in a large congrega-
tion in Pitt-street churoh about four years ago, by the
baptism by Dr. Jefferis of the infant cbild of one of the
South Sea Island teachers, who were passing through Sydney
en route for New Guinea. This is the child who has now
met with an untimely death at the hands of the Moviavi
savages."
• • *
R. A. Forbes, the Mayor of Prahran
(Melb.), has invited “ the ladies of Prahran and
their daughters” to atterd a meeting for the
furtherance of the “ Queen’s Fund.” This is
A RAILWAY ROMANCE.
ELDERLY MASHER (trying to scrape acquaintance with a duck of a creature): “CHARM-
ING DAY, MISS. TRAVELLING ALONE?”
LADY ( cheerfully): “OH, NO. I’M GOING DOWN TO MELBOURNE TO BE TRIED FOR
BIGAMY. THOSE TWO GENTLEMEN IN THE FRONT ARE MY BROTHERS.
THE OTHER TWO ARE DETECTIVES, AND MY TWO HUSBANDS ARE IN THE
SMOKING CAR.”
curious. What does Mayor Forbes mean to in
sinuate? That the young wornea of Prahran
don’t take after their mothers aid are not ladies ,
or that a’l the ladies of Prahran—single or
married — have daughters : Whichever way
Forbes puts it, the invitation is downright insult-
ing. Or is it that he doesn’t consider it ladylike
to b 9 an old maid, and that he deliberately ex-
cludes from the movement that amiable and not
inconsiderable section of the female sex ?
* * *
An enterprising herbalist somewhere in
Australia advertises that in cases where he is not
successful in effecting a cure he will pay half the
funeral expenses. This is the sort of thing that
makes a corpse sit up.
• - * *
The members of a Melbourne suburban
council got so mad and humped their backs so
high the other day that they looked like a room-
full of Richards the Third in a state cf frenzy.
The trouble was all on account of the fact that
the election of the mayor was celebrated with
only a few bottles of beer.
* * *
The Rev. M‘Eaeliran, Presbyterian mcen-
ister, of Melbourne, says that “ the great evil of
Shiela’ Divorce Bill is that it does not take the
Word of God as its guide.” On one issue the
dictum of the Word, if followed, would in each
case necessitate funerals for two. In Leviticus it
is written : “ Even he that committeth adultery
with his neighbour’s wife, the adulterer and the
adultrees shall surely be put to death.” The
undertakers down South are with M’Eachran to a
man.
* * *
The Argus published a sneering article
the other day about some of the unemployed in
Melbourne who refused to take work at which
they could not earn their salt. A sturdy young
democrat wrote a slashing letter to the Age in re-
ply to this, concluding with the following manly
statement“ I am one of the men to whom a
morning contemporary alludes to as “ a gentleman
with soft hands,” who may have been shot out
here by wealthy friends at home, who were in-
different to what my ultimate end would be, so
that they were rid of my presence, though, by the
way, lam a native of Melbourne, where I learnt
my ABC, and am the son of my mother, who wa3
a washerwoman, and is still alive (God bless her.)
Tfiere is the right Australian ring abcut this, and
we wonld like “ distinguished visi ors ” to know
that it —and not the toad-eating cf Toorak or the
grovel of Pott? Point —represents the real feeling
of the Australian people.
* * *
People are j ust now say in g that it’s as well not
to discuss your neighbour, your neighbour’s wife, or
his personal affairs at the top of your voice in a
public ball-room.
* * *
No intelligent visitor to the National
Galleries of Melbourne and Sydney can fail to be
struck by the paucity of pictures exhibited by
colonial artists. There are specimens—good, bad,
and indifferent—of most of the greet European
schools ; but Australian art is represented almost
entirely by a few canvasses from the easels of
Chevalier, Buvelot, Von Goerard, and Folingsby.
The reason certainly does not always He with the In-
different quality cf the home made article. Had
Mr. Longstaff’s vigorous study “Breaking the
News”—which won the gold medal at the recent
students’ exhibition in Melbourne —been exhibited
in the Royal Academy, it would have been hailed
as one of the pictures of the year, and very proba-
bly purchased at a farcy figure for the Victorian
National Gallery by the London committee of
selection. As it was, Mr. LongstafFs fine picture
was sold to a local buyer for £lOO, to be knocked
down at some future auction sale for ten times the
money. Other Australian artists beside Mr.
Longstaff are compelled to part with their best
work for a mere song, and see the refuse of Euro-
pean saloons purchased for exorbitant sums to
enrich colonial galleries. This is what paternal
Government in Australia calls fostering colonial
industry. No one desires to restriot the importa-
lion ‘of genuine works of art; but Australian
painter., r n r ght to demand a legitimate
share of l i, u.ral subsidies granted by their
respective Governments for the formation and
development of National Galleries.
* * *
Victoria collected £12,074 12s. Id. for the
Bulli Fund, only £ll of which went in expenses.
• * *
Another Melbourne divorce scandal on the
tapis. Errirg wife and irate husband.
* * *
Fifteen “Madames” advertise one after
the other in the Melbourne Herald that they are
prepared to foretell anybody’s future for a con-
sideration. Some charge twice as much as others.
It has been suggested that the former see twice as
far into the Future as their c v eap competitors. It
is a better paying game than writing for the
papers. Tne present scribe lived in the next
house to one of these prophetesses once. She had
a pie for her dinner every day in the week and a
fowl on Sundays, while he— but the subject is too
sad. Let us draw a horse-rug over if.
* * *
Will not Creed's Cremation Socie-y, which
has just been established in Sydney, clash some-
what with Parkes’ Centennial Deadhouse scheme?
The situation looming ahead appears to be the
ashes of the great versus the ashes of the grate.
We apologise to the ghosts of a million departed
nigger-minstrels.
• * *
The Christians who boss the parish church
at Nefcley (Erg ) are evidently very superior
goods. Some time ago they objected to the boys
from the reformatory attending church in their
corduroys, and when they were provided with
black serge suits for Sunday the churchwardens
arof e as one humble follower of the Loard and ex-
pelled them altogether. Somehow we are inclined
to agree with that bitter philosopher who said
that if the Redeemer were to re appear in London
to-day his social prospects would be limited to the
off-chance of Lord Shaftesbury asking him to
breakfast.
* * *
Mr. Stutt, the President of the Victorian
Licersed Victuallers’ Association, said in a speech
he delivered at a meetiig of that body the other
day, that “ one lady was said to be worth a dozen
gertlemen as an electioneering agent, because
ladies knew exactly the time to touch their hus-
bands to secure the'r votes.” Humph! Jf that
be so, Mr. Stutt and his friends will have a poor
time of it at the next general election. Every
woman not connected with a hotel will go bald-
headed against rum.
* * #
Mr. S. V. Winter, of the Melbourne
Herald, give a spread to the members of bis
literary staff, the other night. There was un-
limited cold meat and several fowls ou the table.
The reporters had a rap urous time. Mr. Winter
proposes to repeat this graceful and truly Christian
performance every fortnight. This information
will bring joy to a numticr of boarding house
keepers. We have not heard that he is going to
make any reductions in the salaries of his staff in
consequence. .And this reminds us. It was pro-
posed to form in Connection with the staff ‘‘an
association of a literary character.” We are glad
to hear this, and suggest that the association
should take the shape of a class for the purpose of
acquirirg familiarity with the English tongue.
* * •
The Melbourne Herald now appears to be
run in the interests of three persons— Bishop Goe,
Dr. Bevau, and Joe Fraser, the Phrenologist,
whose literary career in that paper commenced,
curiously enough, just after he had informed the
managing editor, 8. V. Winter, that he had a
“ massive intellect.” It would do credit to the
Tract Society, only that now and then it kicks its
pious traces over and wallows joj fully iu the de-
tails of a divorce case. Then we recognise it as
the well-loved Herald of old.
* * *
Cricketer Mastie married Miss Dibb3 last
Saturday.—
When that amiable lassie
Became Mrs. Massie,
We cannot but think that “ his nibs
Had luck on bis side,
For, in choosing a bride,
He was able to get the “ Dlbbs."
• * *
The Court Journal, which is a specially
nauseous Tory organ, gives “a lady’s” experience
of Jubilee night in London. “The crowd suf-
fered no kind of irritation, and their own good
temper aDd loyal sweetness endured not one
moment’s eclipse. ... No doubt this was in
a great measure a re fleeted glow from the light
Her Maj-sty's presence had thrown over all her
people in the morning.” We gue3S that l*dy
traced the loyal sweetness which couldn’t he
eclipsed to its tru9 source. On a hr'g it summer's
day Her Majesty's face reflects a glow that would
grill a steak or ignite a haystack.
# * *
Every now and then we stumble aero s a
paTson who stands a six to four chance of getting
;o Heaven. A real credit to the cloth runs a
gospel-mill in Melbourne on thoroughly uncon-
ventional lines. Only the other day a humble
patron of the cheaper parts of the house casually
mentioned to his reverend boss that he was
cripp’ed in business for want of capital The
parson didn't advise the, poor beggir to “have
faith,” aid “ the Lord wou'd provide” He just
trotted him iato a bank cashed a £lOO cheque,
and banded over the “stiff’ without asking for
security or receipt If that parson is ever out of
a billet in Victoria, we shall be glad to take him
on as private chaplain to The Bulletin.
* * *
The popularity of dear Admiral Tryon
among the nobility of Potts Point and Toorak is
easily accounted for. Truth says of this teney
tar—“ Some years ago he urged the Conservatives
of Weymouth to have no dealings with Liberal
tradesmen. Sir Henry Elwards, then member
for Weymouth, was invited by the Mayor of
that town to dinner. He naturally accepted the
invitation. The Mayor sent a similar invitation
to Admiral Tryon, who replied, ‘ Admiral Tryon
never dines with his groesr.’ ” There is a beauti-
ful historic ring about that sentenco which re-
minds us of “ Tae Old G iard dies, but never sur-
renders Nevertheless, we are open to hot that
Admiral Tryon dined with somebody else's grooer
when he was in Australis. Yes, he dined with
lots of people who held grocer’s licenses.
* •
De Bcnsaude, the gallant foreigner who
married Violet Cameron, and suffered himself to
be slung outof her “private sitting-room” by Lori
Lonsdale, has been eating more dirt. After going
in bald-headed for a decree nisi, this remarkable
man instructed his counsel to announce that
Violet and Lonsdale were es innocent as the Babes
in the Wood. He had suddenly become “con-
vinced that their relations were free from any
taint of immorality or wrong of any kind.” Next
time De Bensaude has “suspicions” Lonsdal i
can easily allay them with a buck. Me .n while it
is pleasant to know that Violet—who blushes
unseen —and virtue are triumphant.
* • •
A London waiter gob a month in gaol re-
cently for hiving a bottlo of champigae in his
possession. It is so unusual to see a common per-
son with fizz in England.
* * •
“ Yer honner, an insinuating smile may be
held to infer a promise.” said a Charters Towers
(Q ) lawyer the other day while endeavouring to
shove an action for bl'ghted affections through the
court. And then the defendant started mechan'-
cally sketching smiles on a sheet of blottiog paper
which varied iu dimensions from a hungry tiger
up to Lewis Levy and a gaping carpet bag.
* * ♦
There was a wadding at Hanley (Eng.) the
other day which should have come off but didn’t.
The bride was there in good time, along with all
her relatives, but where, oh, where was the
bridegroom ? He was nowhere. He had vanished
like a.dream along with his collar and his eye-
glass and his pants ; he had gone, he had fled,
and there was no trace of him The party waited
and stood round and conjectured and shed tears,
and then they returned home ia a famished con-
dition. But as the chariot turned the corner
which led to the bride’s pa’s residence the bereaved
maiden suddenly sat up and cried: “Do my eyes
deceive me ;is that my Augustus 1 ” Ic was her
Augustus. He was jast coming out of the par-
lour-window with the old man’s gold watch, and
all the family plate, and the baby’s money-box
and the maiden aunt’s set of china, and Julia's
parrot, and he looked like a circus on the march,
as he slid down backwards into the street, and
fell unexpectedly into his forsaken bride’s arms.
Lately the Queen purchased a pair of curtains made in
Ireland, and which are quaintly interlaced in Silk on Terra
Cotta woollen cloth, and now we hear there is quite a craze
for these goods The potters’ art is drawn upon by many
trades, it is perhaps the most expans've cf all, and there
appears to be no limit to it. It’s antiquity can be traced back
thousands of yea~s, and i f s modern achievements can te seen
in many forms at the art display of Bray Bros , the China
and Glass Importers in George-street *
Ladies would do well to attend the great sale of the season
now on at the London and Paris Outfitting Establishment
Mrs. MoOathie, 86 and 90 King-street.*
We are glad to see that Mr. Noake has taken our advics
and that of his friends in taking premises in Pitt-street,
next Gunsler's. We are confident of his success, as he in
tends keeping the best class of goods.*


He took her for some one else at first, and said :
Base it down gently, Bill,” but when she eased
it down, and her pa and her three big brothers
bore a hand, and he had a chance to look round,
he uttered a shriek, and fled. A flabbergasted
beak afterwards let him off with 20s fine.
* * «
Rather an unpleasant incident occurred at
a recent meeting of the Australian Artists’ Asso-
ciation in Melbourne, when a well-known come-
dian had the execrably bad taste to recite some
verses of more than doubtful propriety. So broad
indeed were the allusions that a number of gentle-
men left the room in disgust, recalling the scene
of Colonel Newcome in the Cave of Harmony.
* * *
Sir Henry Loch informed the students of
Trinity Collegp, Melbourne, one day last week,
that there had been a law in the Isle of Man for
over 500 years, settling upon a wife half of all the
property acquired by her husband after marriage.
Quite a number of wivea in Australia do better
than that. They manage to dispose of all their
husband’s property, and then they proceed to
pledge his credit until they land him in the Insol-
vency Court.
* • *
No one who has passed the new Anglican
Cathedral, now in course of erection in S wans ton-
street, Melbourne, can have failed to admire the
excellent portraits of Premier Gillies, Murray
Smith, C.M.G , and Graham Berry, attired in the
“loudest” fashions, which some Melbourne
Vandyke has painted on the hoarding, to the
order of that munificent patron of art, Tailor
Brown, of Bourke strret. The mass of instruc-
tive and entertaining reading matter which is also
hoarded up on the Cathedral fence must likewise
have enthralled the attention of the passenger. It
will be interesting, then, to learn that a sum of
£lOOO has been derived from those literary and
artistic sources in aid of the building fund cf St.
Paul’s Cathedral. In other words, the leasing of
the hoardirg to common bill-stickers has pro-
duced this substantial amount. What a lot of
spouting Dean Macartney or Dr. Bromby would
have to do for “ a cool thou’!” And talking if
the new Cathedral, who is the “Sydney gentle-
man ” who has given £5OO for the great Bast
window ?
• * *
Sydney is not a very good place for those
who want to raise small loans Hylton ltaitt Sat'or,
acquitted last week on a charge of false pretences,
borrowed £2OO for three days in July, 1886 He
gave as security a transfer of a selection declared
to he worth £l5OO, and as collaterial security his
own promissory-note for £220 on demand, and a
cheque for the same amour t £2O on £2OO for
three days seems to be about 1220 per cent. This
transaction ought to make old Aaron Waxman sit
up and howl with envy. Mr. Suttor wanted the
loan to pay a bill for £l9O which he had endorsed
for a friend of his, an aristocrat whose finances
did not enable him to square bis hotel-bill j. The
first time Mr. Suttor endorsed this latter bill it
was only £95, hut after a moneylender had dis-
counted i r , and some lawyers had shoved it
through an in solvent estate, ard Mr. Suttorhad en-
dorsed it some more times, it ranged up to within
a tenner of two hundred. We think, in view of
various money-lending transactions that have
been privately reported to us lately, that the read-
ing of the authorised version is inaccurate. The
tourist who went from Jerusalem to Jericho must
have fallen among “ money-lenders.” That’s our
revised version of it, anyway.
* * *
William Whiteley, who has had four big
fires in five years is not old, but he has
an old head. Twenty-three years ago he only had
a small ironmongery shop in Wakefield, and until
recently had the largest universal providing estab-
lishment in the world. Any thing, from a baby to a
penny roll, could bo had in his establishment for
cash, and cash only. He had 196 department",
amongst others butchering, jewellery, carriage
factory, drapery, agricultural implements, and
coals. Everything was under his sole superin-
tendence, but for all that he always spared time
to answer personally about two summonses a
month from divers lady assistants in his establish-
ment. Indeed he was a universal provider !
His place at Westhourne Grove seemed to have
almost as muoh attraction for Australians in
London as the Criterion “ Where have you been
this morning?” we once asked of the gorgeous
Fred. Cooper (whose portrait as the distinguished
avocat australien hangs up somewhsre near the
Bon Marchd in Paris). “Aw !” remarked Fwede-
wick, “I've been to Wbiteley’s. Bought a three-
and-sixpenny necktie for one-and-nine, and cut
out the rest in my cab-fare ”
* * *
A Rockhampton correspondent wires to
mention that when Lady Brassey visited Ihe
hospital up there she was carried through the
institution in a chair, and asks what is the matter
with her poor foots. Corn*, perhaps ; tight boots,
very likely ; possibly rheumatiz. Maybe slipped
on a broken bottle. Anyhow, it wasn t because
she had holes in the heels of her hosen ; that much
we are sure of.
* # *
Dr. Cameron Lees said at a meeting in
Melbourne the other night that “ Greece gave us
the Iliad, Palestine gave us the Bible, and Scot-
land gave us the Shorter and Longer Catachism.”
Just so. But Scotland gave us something much
pleasanter to frail humanity than either the
Shorter or Longer Catechism. And the name
thereof is whisky. What sinners we are !
* * *
Another new cadism is to call yourself by
your “petjname” when you're announcing your
marriage or the birth of a new baby. Thus
“Jack Smith to,” &c., &c., and “The wife of
Tom Brown,” and so forth.
» • »
Sir William Foster Stawell, LL.D., late
Chief Jus tic o and at present L : eutenant-Governor
of Victoria, is on a visit to Sydney with Lady
Stawell nee Molesworth-Greene. Sir William has
accompanied his wife to Sj dney in order that she
may obtain the benefit of medical advice for an
affection of the eyes. This, by-the-bye, is not
complin: eitary to the Melbourne faculty, which in-
cludes oculists like Gray (a pupil of the late Sir
William Wilde, father of (Rear and a man whose
reputation was European), Rudall (whom the late
Sir Redmond Barry characterised from the bench
as “a most accomplished scientific gentleman),
Jackson, and Aubrey Bowen. Sir W. F. Stawell
arrived in Port Phillip in 1839, but for a number
of years devoted more attention to squatting and
horse-riding than to law. In his younger days he
was an accomplished and fearless horseman, and
many anecdotes are told of daring feats per-
formed by him in the saddle. He was a member
of the old one-horse Legislative Council of Vic-
toria, and held office as Attorney-General from
1851 till 1857, when on the retirement of the late
Sir William A’Beckett he was appointed Chief
Justice of Victoria. For some years after his
elevation to the Bench, Sir William rose at day-
break and dived deep into the law hooks to make
up for the time he had spent in farming sheep and
bringing up cattle. Mr. Stawell (as he then was)
prosmuted in person, as Attorney-General, the
Ballarat rioters in 1854 He then advised the
offering of a reward of £5OO for the apprehension
of Peter Lalor, the leader. In 1875, Sir William
was Acting-Governor o* Victoria and accepted the
advice of thi3 same Peter Lalor, who was then a
Minister of the CrowD. Sir William is a leading
member of the Church of England in Victoria,
One of his sons, who for some years acted as his
associate, is row a solicitor in Melbourne, and
another son was recently admitted to the bar and
is beginning to acquire a practice. Sir William
is a Cork man, and his maternal grandfather was
an Irish bishop under the old Church Establish-
ment.
• • *
Phil. Robinson is a sat-upon man. At the
refreshment-room at Albury (N S. W.) he alighted
from the train and ord'-red a lordly glass of b'er,
and d tbe expense, but just as he goirg to ba-
gm, the plump and pretty girl behind the bar said
it would he threepence, please, and she would be
glad if he would pay before he drank it. The
epcc'al correspondent dashed down three coppers,
and made a note in his book that the plump girls
at Albury were a bad lot. Then he went over to
A SOLID FACT.
“Young man,” he said, solemnly, “I’ve travelled all over the world, I’ve associated with the
eminent minds of every land; I’ve seen life in all its phases, and I make a study of it, and I
know what lam talking about. In that glass of whisky you are about to drink, there lurks
everlasting death and destruction, and I warn you-”
“Excuse me, sir,” interruoted the young man, “but if you have travelled all over the world,
associated with eminent minds, and have observed and studied life in all its phases, and yet don’t
know whisky fron Old Tom gin, you have wasted your opportunities.”
the other counter and started on con e ham and
eggs, but the slender, dark-haired girl who ran
that department said she would have to trouble
him for halfa-crown please before he ate them
things, as how did she know that he wouldn’t
go off when he had finithed andsiy “charge it.”
HhiL paid up, and made another note that the
thin girls in N S.W. were ten times worse than
the plump ones, also that their mothers evidently
didn’t spank them enough when they were your>g;
and he is going to put these facts in his book
when he writes it.
• • *
“ Bussy ” writes us a long letter complain-
ing of the Jackin-office conduct cf the Sydney
Metropolitan Transit Commission officers, a body
of men who, he avers, carry on jinks at muddy
crossings which are calculated to make an angel
weep. Omnibuses belonging to wealthy men
and the private vehicles of tbe salt of the earth
are allowed to take any side of the road they
please, and tear round corners avalanche-fashion,
while the drivers of cabs, cartain other busses,
and carts of the humbler sort are ceaselessly
pulled up on charges of driving too fast or too
slow, or trying to strike a happy medium between
the two, and am fined one day fo? takirg the side
of the road, and tbe next for cavorting in the
middle. Also he complains that when any bye-
law is broken the average Metropolitan Transit
officer does not stop the driver and inform him
that he will be summoned, but merely sends in
his imposing document some ten days afterwards,
when the occurrence has become ancient history
and it is impossible to procure evidence for the
defence. There is a chance here for such a man
as Abiga’l to right an obvious injustice—not the
new Abigail with the £l5OO a year, but the old
patriotic grindery man of Brickfield Hill.
* * *
St. Patrick’s R.C. Church was crowded on
Monday, August Bth, the occasion being the
marriage of Miss Bolger, niece of Mrs. Hanney,
of Charlotte-place, Sydney, with Mr. L Stongie,
sen of the late Captain Stongie of Cork, Ireland.
The bride was attired in ivory brocaded satin with
long train, beaded front, and trimmed with pearls
and orange-blossoms, bridal wreath and veil and
diamond ornaments, and was attended by two
bridesmaids in cream cashmere,
* * *
Some of the personal effects of Lord
Augustus Loftus were auctioned the other day by
a Sydney firm and fetched good prices. Among
them were many articles which it would have
grieved the old diplomatist to see scattered among
the glorified land-sharks of Sydney - souvenirs of
his long career in Europe, such as the silver-plate
which was presented to him by the Embassy of
Berlin on the 25th anniversary of his marriage,
and similar relics. A few years hence, no doubt,
when the sale and the ex-Governor‘s unfortunate
insolvency have become ancient history and been
forgotten, all Potts Point will exhibit its pur-
chases as “ a little thing Lord Loftus gave ns
before he went away ; the dear old man was
quite attached to us I assure you.” This remark,
of course, only applies to female Potts Point. The
males will content themselves by sticking up an
elegant piece of plate where every visitor who is
not as blind as a Marine Board is bound to see it,
and then will explain casually : “ Ah, yes. Just
a trifle that Lord Loftus sent for me to remember
him by. Regular old pal of mine, he was.”
• * W
The Glebe Rowing Club holds its eighth
annual re-union in the Glebe Town Hall on Thurs-
day (25th August).
• • •
“ Elizabeth Lo:h, President,” has issued
a pathetic appeal on behalf of the Yic’orian
Queen’s Fund, but the subscriptions e ntinueto
hang Are most woefully. No ona questions the
claims of poor and deserving women and public
charity; but people simply deeline to farther
glorify a rich woman who has already obtained a
reputation for benevolence by false pretences.
* * *
That bloodthirsty band of desperadoes,
the sth Regiment of Scottish Rifles, gave a con-
cert on Friday last at Sydney Protestant Hall,
with a good deal of Caledonian music thrown in.
Ic was succeeded by a ball at Leigh Home, Castle-
resgh-stre et, under the patronsge of Governor
CarlDgton, Sir Henry PaTke3, and others Among
the guests weie Colonel Baynes, Major Mackenz : e,
Captain Baynes, Captain aid Mrs. Gray, Captain
and Mrs. Bayly, another Captain Haynes, Captain
Campbell, several other captains, and a number of
people who had neve? even been in the militia.
Toe proceedings went on gai-y till a late hour,
ard then the bagpipes gave ont, and so did the
haggis and whisky, and the company broke up.
Although so many of the guests were accustomed
to scenes of bloodshed, they maintained their
calmness admirably throughout, and nobody was
slewed—we mean, slain.
♦ • *
The bachelors of Rand wick are getting up
a return ball to the ladies of that suburb Isn’t
this return business gettirg about played out?
Very soon if a Good Samaritan picks up a citizen
who has been run over by a cart and puts a band-
age on his head etiquette will require the injured
one to take the Samaritan in and put a porous
plaster on his back by way of returniog the com-
pliment.
# * *
Dear Bulletin, —From the Yarranga-
bowla (Cooaamble district) paper’s account of the
lccal pasto-al and agricultural s v ow :
Best sow, 103.
Mr. M. O Hooligan.
Be3t fat pig, 10s,
Mr. M. O'Hooligan.
The days of the Houyhnhms and Yahoos have
evidently arrived, as is easily seen by reading the
above. But I have four questions to ask. 1. Is a
gentleman allowed to show himself in two sec-
tions ? 2. Is ten shillings (half a James) sufficient
compensation for standing three days in a pen ?
3. Have the Coonamble compositors run short of
apostrophes and s's ? 4. Are they (the papers)
not afraid of libel?— Sootty R, Wrinkleriorum.
* • •
When it comes to a matter of saying
nothing at all in a great many words the retired
colonist, of the Sawmyul Wulson type, can hold
his own against all comers. Here's a specimen of
a speech credited to one of those talking toads at
an Exeter Hall meeting where bishops were the
best men on the board. Inflating himself to burst-
ing point this mud-headed geniu3 observed
“ My Lord Bishop of Gloucester and Bristol, and
you, my Lord Bishop of Bath and Wells, and you,
my Lord Bishop of Sjdor and Man, I have much
p’eashaw in supporting the resolution which you,
my Lord Bishop of Gloucester and Bristol, so ably
proposed, and you, my Lord Bishop of Bath ard
Wells, so ably seconded My Lords, I had the
honour before leaving Australiab, a land where
the psople entah heart and soul into every move-
men 5 wh ch emanates from the deah old mother
land—l had the honah of breakfasting with my
es'eemed friend the Lord Bishop of Sydney, and,
my Lords, I asked his Lordship, in the confidence
of private friendship, what he thought of this
society. And wha 1 , my Lord Bishop of Gloucester
and Bristol, and you, my Lord B shop of Bath and
Wells, and you, my Lord Bishop of Sodor and
Man, what do you think his Lord hip’s answer
was? He said, my Lords, ‘I think it a very
good society.’ And so, my Lords, do I.” Then
the brilliant orator s*t down, and all the Chad-
bands, and Pecksniffs, and Jel abys, and Pardiggles
clapped their paws and cheered, and the Lord
Bishops sat up and assumed a look of sublime
sanctity.
* * *
The members of All Saints’ Church,
Woollahra, gave one of a series of winter enter-
tainments on Tuesday, 16th inst., in the school-
room. The following amateurs took part Mies
Kathleen Moore, Miss Nellie Manning, Mrs.
Nutting, Miss Wilton, Herr Franckel, Mr. W. N.
Farmer, Captain Baynes, Mrs. Kingsmill, and
others.
* * *
A grand cavalry tournament is to be held
at Moore Parke on October 1. With the usual
perverse mulishness of things it will probably rain
cats and dogs.
* * *
At St. Thomas' Church. North Shore, on
Wednesday, Miss Agnes Ditbs, daughter of Mr.
T. A Dibbs, was married to Mr. H. H. Massey.
The Rev. 0. Childe officiated.
* * *
Mrs. Walford, of Waratab, Bayswater
Road, gave a mest enjoyable dance on Wednesday.
* •
As we write, a grand fancy dress and bur-
lesque carnival on skates is announced to take
p’ace at the Co’umbia Rink, Sydrey Exhibition
Building, on the 23rd ard 24th August. In the
eloquent language inscribed on the tack of the
ticket: “His Excellency Lord Carington and
Lady Carington will be present. One-third of the
proceeds of the evening will be given by the
Columbia Rink Management to the Queen's
Fund, all skafei s for this evening must receive
an invitation from the Committee for the Queen’s
Fund. All skaters must he in fancy dress. A
limited number will be allowed in evening dress.”
Regarding all vhich we can on’y say that the
show will evidently he a magnificent one, but—
alas, poor old “Queen's” Fuad !
* * *
It is nice to have a surplus to write about
in this world of shortages. Her Majesty Qmen
Victoria got £75,000 cn the occasion of her
Jubilee, the same to he laid out in charity, and
she spent £5OOO straightway on another sta*ue of
that ancient chestnut, Albert the Good. Conse-
quently she has a surplus of £70,000. Also the
committee appointed to look after the return hall
to Mayor Riley, of Sydney, has got a surplus of
£3OO in hand, but this is such a trifle that it is
hardly worth mentioning.
* * *
A British aristocrat, who seems to have
made one of the colonies his home, visited an up-
country town lately, and patronised the local
race meeting. He distinguished himself in the
racecourse by standirg in front of the grand
stand, and reflecting in a yell on the morals of the
ladies present, and at the hotel he took his drg to
bed with him till the landlord threw them out.
It i 3 hard on any decent dog to be compelled to
take such a nobleman round with it.
* • #
Rabbi Pavis, of Sydney, is to be testi-
monialised because he has spent 25 years in .the
Synagogue. The rev. gentleman will have half a
Jubilee.
It came out in Auckland the other day
that a man named Moses had been charging a
Scotch widow 250 per cent, interest. When su"h
a case- recently came before an English judge he
gave a verdict ftr the sum agreed on between
borrower and usurer, but ordered that it should
he paid by instalments at the rate of sixpence a
quarter.
A curious scene was witnessed on the Mel-
bourne wharf tfce other day. Some immigrants
of the peasant type, who had just arrived from
Ireland, were mat at the steamer which had
brought them from Sand ridge by a number of
relatives, including an aged Irishwoman, 8p
parently the mother of some of them. One of the
first things which one of the new arrivals—a
young man—did, was to open one of his boxes and
present a clod of hard black “turf” to the old
woman, who received it reverentially, kissed it,
and “blessed ” herself. This sod cf turf was part
and parcel of the grand ould sod to which her
heart strings clung.
Several leading members of the Sydney
bar, including Messrs. Owen, QC., Edmund
Barton, G. B. Barton, and C. G. Heydon, more cr
leas strongly concur in the opinion that Messrs
Slattery and Heydon’s contention to the effect
that though the N.S.W. Legislature has power to
hang a man it has no power under the Constitu-
tion Act cr otherwise to tax his beer, is a valid
one. The point is to be rused in the Sup eire
Court forthwith on behalf of the brewers, wlo f
they succeed in establishing their case, will te
entitled at the hands of the Government to a re-
fund for the year of excise duty to the extent of
£225,000. In our mind’s eye we fee a brewer's
down-the-harbour picnic. Tom Slattery stands
up on the greensward, in one hand a champagne
glass, in the other a cheque. “ Mr. Tooth and
Mr. Toohey,” says he, “I have much pleasure in
presenting to you, for distribution among the
brewers of the city, as per attached list, the sum
of £225,000 just received by us from the Colonial
Treasurer in satisfaction of the judgment of the
Supreme Court, which, as are all aware, was
upheld by the Privy Council a few weeks ago.’
“Thanks, 1 ’ says Tooth, “I move that tie odd
£25,000 be given to the firm of Slattery and
Heydon to enable them to pay the costs of the
suit, and that they be allowed to keep the
change.” Carried unanimously. .After the health
of Sir John Robertson had been proposed by Dan
O’Connor, the company returned to town with
heads on them.


The Referee
The principal bit of sport at the Suburban
Bicycle Club sports on the Sydney Association
Ground on Saturday was had with the welshers,
a couple of whom acted as hares for a couple of
hundred infuriated human hounds. The attend-
ance was poor, and interest in the five-mile event
was spoilt by Jenkins falling 200 yards from home,
and leaving Wood to finish what promised to te
an exciting race. However, the pair meet again
at the Sydney Bicycle Club sports on Saturday
week, when Jenkins will have the opportunity of
taking his revenge—if he is able. Young Bet
teridge, who has been in the hands of Bennett,
won the one and three mile handicaps in a clev< r
fashion, and over him the bookmakers, or rather
the rats, were heavily hit in more ways than one.
* * •
Noble sports, wrestlers. Cannon is pretty
good as a strangler, but he is not a consequence
alongside Mr. Mellican man Carkeek, who recently
wrestled one Pearce, in London (Eng.). Tho
match ended unsatisfactorily, and at a subsequent
meet)] g to share the gate plunder, the proceed-
ings w ne lofty. Hard words came to blows, then
blows changed to bites, when the American
lunched off a pound or so of Mr. Pearce's right
ea\ whereupon a bystander bashed Carkeek’s
cheek open with a tumbler, and order was re-
etored after the American’s backer had his head
laid open with a spittoon. Something like a bit
of sport, this.
* * #
Peter Jackson, the Australian champion,
is at present “doing the province),” raising tho
plunder for a trip to America. Peter’s occupation
in Australia is gone, as we have no one in Aus-
tralia who can hope to cope against him with
succeis, so his only chance of real work means a
trip across the herring pond. Jackson is a ligh -
ning fighter,* and we prophesy at least a lively
three rounds for the best of them, whether
Yankee or English.
* « «
The following will form the team of Eng-
lish Cricketers Shaw and Shrewsbury are bringing
out to Australia Professionals : Shrewsbury,
Ulyett, IVeston, Pilling, Briggs, Lohmann,
Maurice Read, Lilly white, Pougher, with
Amateurs : W. Newman, J. Brann, C. A. Smith,
and Docker. Shrewsbury is in form, and scored
267 last week in a match against Middlesex.
• • *
Tom Lees, the pugilist who gave Jackson
such a job to catch him on Foley’s stage in Syd-
ney, now poses in England as the “ Australian
Champion.” He was matched in England for half
a century against “ Donnelly’s unknown ” one
Perkins. Lees, before a crowded house at a
guinea a head, made a chopping block of Perkins
who succumbed in the sixth round. Although
not within miles of Australian championship
form, it is no “mug” who will beat Mr. Tom
Lees. The English papers say he loses much of
his height by stooping, a habit of which he can
easily be broken. They make a mistake, as it is
Lees’ natural style of fighting, to try and alter
which would only make him worse.
* * *
Sloggers Fogarty and Gorman made a
sorry show of their so-called four-round knock-
out at Foley’s on Saturday night. Fogarty came
on the stage with the advertised intention of put-
ting Mr. Gorman in his little cot in the period of
four rounds, but had Mr. Fogarty been principal
shareholder in a company which had Mr. Gorman
heavily insured against accident, he could not
have treated him more tenderly. Fogarty is i ust
now on good terms with the general public, but a
few more exhibitions such as that of Saturday
night and he will again be “ getting himself dis-
liked.” People who pay their money want to
see somebody punched.
* * #
It is cabled that Hanlan thinks of settling
down In Australia. If that’s so the milk in the
cocoanut is accounted for. “ Ned ” has one eye
on Beach and the other on a Parramatta pub.
* * *
Young Fielder promises to be the Archer
of the antipodes. At the recent Newcastle races
he- won five races out of six, and in the sixth he
managed to fill a place.
* * *
Life is not quite long enough for many
matches of the Mathews-Lving type- tie pair are
matched 1 o box for the Maoriland “champion-
ship ” in January next. Jackson will visit New
Zealand shortly, wheD, If given the opportunity,
he may polish the pair off in one evening, with
one hand, just by way of keeping his fist in for
bigger game in the States. Then what about the
“ championship ” in the articles of agreement ?
* * *
The case of the champion mean men, the
Cricket Club subscription defaulters, is to be
brought up at the next annual meeting of the
N.S.W. Association.
* * *
The Northern District Cricket Clubs are
about to form an association independent of the
Sydney body. Hitherto Northern players have
not received the recognition they deserved.
* * *
A writer in the London Referee, refer-
ing to the visit of two teams to Australia next
season, fairly puts the question of priority claimed
by the Melbourne C. C. and Shaw’s team. There
can be no doubt the M.C.C. abandoned their in-
tention of bringing a team last season in deference
to Shaw and Co. on the distinct understanding
that the M.C.C. were to have the field to them-
selves this season. British fair play, we suppose !
* * *
Mr. Alf. Edward was hardly dealt with at
the bicycle sports on Saturday. He came in first
in the obstacle race, but was disqualified for not
opening his umbrella. . The committee supplied
the giDghams, and the one handed to Edward had
a defective spring, which rendered it no small
work, even on foot, to open. An analogous case
would be a rowing club committee handing a com-
petitor short weight at the start of a handicap
skiff race, and then disqualifying him for not
carrying his full impost.
* * *
Tom Meadows and Baxter are matched,
“stuff up,” to fight at Foley’s to a finish.
Meadows is one of the most scientific boxers who
shows in Sydney, and should make sin easy victory
over Baxter. Gorman and Burgess are booked to
a finish for next Saturday night. Bargess takes a
lot cf punishment to knock him out, but we think
Gorman can deal out sufficient and to spare.
* * *
Another neat thing in “ bank ” robberies
is reported from Monte Carlo. The croupiers and
card-dealers at three of the proprietary tables ar-
ranged a steady “ run of luck ” for certain players,
and the bank was sweated to the tune of £40,000.
Outsiders who always stand “ form” did well by
following the confederates’ investments. One
high-toned English couple are reported to have
won £lO,OOO. There was the weak spot in the
swindle. If the croupiers could only have robbed
Peter to pay Paul things might have gone on
pleasantly enough. But Peter played the same
game as the other fellow till there were no stiff
’uns to counterbalance the certs.
* * *
Englishman Langridge has bicycled a mile
in lmin. 42J sec.
* *
The stranglers had another set-to the
other night. This time Connor wins. The gul-
A VICE-REGAL SOLILOQUY.
HIS EX. : “SO POOR OLD LOFTUS HAS GONE INSOLVENT. WELL, WELL I CHANGE
OF CLIMATE DOESN T ALWAYS CURE THE HOLE IN A FELLOW’S POCKET.”
lible public of Melbourne have “parted” to the
extent of £2OOO for three “ exhibitions.” What
money could poor Tom Sayers have made had he
known even half as much as the modern Yankee
Greasy-Roman wrestler !
• * •
When Cannon grasped the hand of the
referee, and with great gusto said that the ref.’s
decisions were quite fair and he was fairly beaten,
the scene was as affectiog as when the Queen
kissed all the Royal family at Westminster on
Jubilee Day. John Connors, who was all smiles
also, said he would quit “wmstling” for six
months. £750 was taken at the doors.
* * *
Live stock item. To cure a horse of biting
let him grab at a small bag containing half a
pound of cayenne pepper. He will cry like a
child and will hardly look at even a bran mash
for a week.
• • •
The sporting papers didn’t notice it, but
the most exciting heat at last week’s Carington
handicap was when a short, fat welsher took 40
yards’ start of a thin, tall backer and was caught
before the 100 yards had been covered,
* * *
The Prince of Wales has entered the colt
by Hermit out of Bonnie Doon, purchased on his
behalf for 250 guineas, in the Derby of 1889.
* • •
The Crusaders’ Cycling Club is the name
of a new club which has been formed in the Syd-
ney eastern suburbs, with headquarters at the
Adelaide Hotel, Moore Park Road. E. M'Donald,
hitherto well known as a prominent racing mem-
ber of the Balmain 8.C., is captain, and G. M.
Moore, the hon. sec. of the Cyclists’ Union, is sub-
captain. The membership list comprises several
riders heretofore known as members cf the
Suburban B. C.
* * *
Connor’s victory over Cannon, in what
looked like a square match, was only in accord-
ance with his previous form. The result fully
justified The Bulletin s comment on the men's
last meeting at Melbourne Exhibition, which led
to some washing of dirty linen in the police court.
There was £5OO in the Alexandra to be divided
in the proportions of 75 per cent to Connor and 25
per cent, to Cannon. Genuine or otherwise, it
was a precious dear show at the price.
* * *
Shrewsbury’s form during the present sea
son has been the best ever shown by any English
professional cricketer. The men he has engaged
for his Australian tour all appear to be in good
fettle Maurice Read, Briggs, and Lohmann are
heavy scorers, and that brawny Yorkshireman
Ulyett, has a century or two to his credit. By
the way, nothing is known about the terms on
which Shrewsbury has Eeoured his amateur
auxiliaries. Perhaps they are cming out as
“real gentlemen” and will work for bsre ex-
penses.
* * *
Bubear’s easy victoiy over Wallace Ross
a’most makes it appear that the rowing standard
is higher now than when Hanlan was in full
bloom. Seven years ago Ross was almost as good
as Layccck, then next best man to Hanlan. Now
we have Beach, Gaudaur, Teamer, and Bubear,
all capable of losing Ross. Granted that the
Nova Scotian is the Wallace of old (and his rela-
tive form with Iranian's is about the same as
ever), then we can work out the whole situation
by simple rule of three. Yet if Beach and Han-
lan meet again it will be well to take odds about
“ an unexpected reversal of form.”
* * «
Blue Mountain, with Scobie up, won the
Caulfield Grand National Steeplechase like a
workman. This was “the Mountain’s" first
public performance over big timber, and he more
than endorsed his form over hurdles. At this
meeting the public got their eyes wider opened to
selling race tactics. Faugh-a-Ballagh was backed
for a scramble at 5 to 2 on, and won right enough
by half a length from Anarchy. The latter ran
away at the start, and his rider had to give such
a palpable pull that he was disqualified for six
months.
* * •
The U.S. Consul at San Salvador says
that coca enables natives to traverse plains and
mountains with burdens of 2001bs. On their little
backs. Wobbler Weston sustained himself with
coca when engaged in a six days go-as-you-please.
Mrs. Campbell-Praed, in a new novel, re-
presents Australian society as “ brutal, coarse,
and drunken." Her old-time acquaintances in
Brisbane will doubtless feel flattered.
The Oaae of William Roy.
The Bulletin has so far acknowledged subscrip-
tions to the amount of £43 Os. 3d. received by it
on behalf of William Roy, the soldier who now
lies blind and paralysed in Parramatta Asylum.
4s already stated, Roy wears the distinguished
conduct medal, awarded him for his gallant con-
duct at Rorke’s Drift, where, though at the time
an invalid, he rushed through the flames during
the fight to save the sick from the burning hospi-
tal. He subsequently received from the hands of
the Queen, an autograph Bible, and his portrait is
to be seen in the celebrated paintiDg by De Neu-
ville now in the New South Wales National
Gallery. The unfortunate man, who, since his
admission to the wretched asylum that is now his
home, has, according to the report of the gentle-
men appointed to enquire into the management of
the N.S.W. Government charities, been treated
with wanton neglect and cruelty, is in a hopeless
condition of health, and will, while he lingers, be
utterly dependent on the good offices of those who
may wish to make a substantial protest against
the hollow-hearted system which, while it spends
lavishly to commemorate triumphs gained chiefly
at the cost and never for the benefit of the class
from which the common soldier is drawn, cal-
lously permits a brave private to die in misery.
The Bulletin hopes to collect a considerable
sum for Roy, and undertakes to see that he is
directly benefited by its expenditure. The follow-
ing additional donations are now thankfully
acknowledged:—
James Ssott, £1; C. D.us, £1; Cornstalk, 55.; Donald
M'Lalman, los.; Some of the employees of Messrs A, Hor-
dern and Sons, collected by Mr. G. D. Higgs, £3.
The following amounts were omitted from our list of
July 30 : —Working Man, 2s. 6d. ; M. G 2s 6J.; P, J.
Wheatley, Gilgardra, 55.; Englishman, 2s. 6d. ; G. W
Whitfield, £1; Republican, Is.
Mias F(.rbe3cu9’s recent tour in America
was an enormous success. This is more Ihm
can be said of Gumboil’s trip to Australia,
“ No, I can’t give you credit. The slate’
full,” she said. “ Full! is it ?’ he answered
“well, then, you’d better cut it on the edge.”
Some of the Liberal Unionists are be
coming Liberal Its-uoioniste, or Dissentien
Liberal Unionists, or Dissentient Liberal Dissen
tients, or Disunited Liberal Unionists. But they
are Liberals still, eo fir as inconsistency goes.
Sutherland, N. S.W. Minister for Works
when in the country was introduced to a man S(
years old, who had never seen a railway train
That's nothing. Wo have known many an octc
genarian who had never seen or heard a Minister
for Works snor.ng in the Assembly.
Chief Justice Higinbotbam, of Victoria,
was seen the other day helping a blind nianncros:
Latrobe-street, Melbourne, Now, if it had beei
a certain N S.W. judge—not the Chief Jusiicc
though—it would have been a splendid instance
of the blind leading the blind.
The next time a three-card-trick man, or
a party wi'h an innocent-looking match-box, is
brought up in a police-court charged with fraud
he can safely plead “ Kurrajongery,” triumph
antly appeal to Fawcett and Tnnes, ard walk out
without a ghost of a stain on his character.
Charters Towers will have to worry cn
without Lord de Bressi, after all. He wasn't able
to come, neither was his suite. But he said he
would possibly re-visit Australia in two years,
and then, if nothing else intervened and he felt!
equal to it, it was just possible that lie would see
what could be done, if he didn’t change his mind.
Balm in Gilead !
Sydney gasworks consume 100,000 tons of
coal, producing 1,000,000.000 cubic feet of gas a
year. The heat of summer expands gas at the
rate of 120 feet in 1000 feet for an increase of
OOdeg. Fahrenheit on the. winter temperature.
This information is calculated to make house-
holders feel resigned when the summer gas bill
looks 12 per cent, larger than the winter account.
At a recent banquet tendered to Messrs.
Abigail and Clarke at Wilcannia, Clarke threw
cold water on the idea of Australian federation,
and eneeringly remarked that those colonies which
favoured the project did to to gain their own and
certain ends, making special reference to Victoria.
Some of the gentlemen present did not seem to
quite agree, and one outspoken individual boldly
asserted in reply that colonial federation was de-
sirable. Mr. Abigail made a more favourable im-
pression than his colleague.
Melbourne Herald advt. :
“ JF the lady who took a diamond and ruby riDg from
my dressing-table drawer, a few nights ago, will
return the same, no further action will be taken.
Russell-street."
Now, in the first place, what was the lady, evi-
dently a stranger, doing in his dressing-room?
Secondly, how does he know a lady took the ring ?
And would aDy lady take a ring ? And thirdly, is
there, can there be, a man so guileless as to think
he will get hack that ring without “further
action ” ?
Kill one rabbit, and ten arise to take its
place. On Teryawynia (N.S.W.) run, where half
a million have been slaughtered and paid for dur-
ing the past three months, they are more plentiful
than ever. Twenty rabbits require the same
amount of food as one sheep, and still they live
and thrive, while they employ in the colony an
army of 2000 men who earn f-om £3 to £lO a
week. They are worse than the ten plagues—the
rabbits, we mean—and Abigail s visit and speeches
seem to have had no more effect on them than
reason and commonsense on the average Orange-
man.
Ihe solitary survivor of the wreck of the
Dunbar was banqueted at the Watson’s Bay pub.
on the 30th anniversary of his escape from the
hungry sea. After the feed, he took the company
up the rocks and pointed out the ledge to which
he had chmg, and explained, with tears, how bad
he felt when he saw legs and arms and whole
corpses tossiog about along with capstan bars,
tea chests, and the ship's log in the boiling waves,
and how the saloon cat went down
clinging to the main hatch, but game to
the last. Then he fell into the arms
of the man who pulled him up 30 years ago, but
whom he had never called on since, and the pair
wept on each other’s necks, and there were toasts,
songs, speeches, and sich, also there was drink to
any extent, and in the midst of it all the cabby
who brought the party down said his vehicle
wasn’t going to wait to be turned into a blessed
ambulance, and drove off home, leaving the party
in the lurch. He thought the Dunbar was rather
an old chestnut, and wanted something more
recent to keep his horse out catching bronchial
disorders in the night air for. We nearly forgot
to mention that Dan O'Connor, M.P., made an
oration, and that five minutes afterwards —or
before—a man went and threw himself from the
cliff at the scene of the wreck. There was no
connection at all between the events, and the cele-
bration will be a grand lift for the hostelry where
it was given.


Centrally
situated
AND
ACCESSIBLE
TO ALL THE LEADINC
BUSINESS
HOUSES
IN THE
CITY
DANIELL’S IMPERIAL HOTEL
BRISBANE
THE MOST COMFORTABLE
SOUTH
OF THE
EQUATOR
WM/k
I
d
□
>»<£bv
CSH
a
THREE MINUTES
DRIVE
FROM THE
RAILWAY
STAT|ON
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
WITH All THE
MERCANTILE
HOUSES
BANKS&c
Private Suites with Luggage Room attache! for the convenience of Ladies. Ladies’ Drawing-room, with a magnificent view of the Brisbane River and
One-Tree Hill, Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths, COMMERCIAL ROOM,
Gentlemen's Smoking, Heading, and Corresponding Room. All Letters and Telegrams applying for Apartments wl receive prompt attention. C. 11. DANIELL.
WOMAN ITEMS.
In a recent issue of a Melbourne “ society”
■paper the first ten items in the “ Society” column
were about Lady Loch.
Jones (disconsolately) : “ I’ve a sweet life
of it between the pair of them. My mother in-
law collects bric-a-brac, and my wife throws it
at me.”
A Morpeth (Eng.) widow is suing the exe-
cutors of a defunct ex-mayor of the town for
breach of promise. The evil that men do lives
after them.
Mr. Sydney Candish, of Sydney, has just
published a terribly lengthy poetical C3aay on
“Love.” The result is likely to be a “ corner” in
"Rough on Rats.”
“I'm 70 years of age, and I never had a
bath in my life,” said an old lady who was apply-
ing for admission to the Immigrants’ Home, Mel-
bourne, the other day.
While Bishop Barry was lecturing a
London female audience on the immorality of
Australia, he forgot to mention that more than
70 000 unfortunate women walk the streets of
London alone,
An Adelaide young man put a bullet
through his temple the other day becauso his girl
had jilted him. That girl will now be so proud
that she won’t look at the other girls of the
neighbourhood.
Au Ipswich (Q.) man when arrested for
eloping with and marrjing a girl of 16, explained
that “ she was worth doing six months for,” be-
cause she asked him to run away with her and
piomised to stick to him until death.
Mrs. Gladstone is a neat speaker:—“lf
you are interested in politics don t quarrel over
them, but educate yourselves. Let me tell you a
little secret. Head well all my husband’s speeches,
then, and not till then, will you be wise.”
A woman brought before the Melbourne
City Police Court last week had actually got
drunk on her own hair. She had cut off her
flowing tresses, sold them to a barber for five
shillings, and immedia’ely proceeded to paiut
M’lntyre lane red with the proceeds.
Says a guileless S.M. Herald advertise-
ment
» VOTING plain girl wanted, to teach 3 little Danish
girls English and needlework, 3 hours daily.
Apply Lodge, 46 street, V^ddingcon
We would like to see the girl who would, by
applying for this billet, prove herself “plain.”
Lord 1 she’d starve first!
Maud Lamb, of Go alburn, got six months
tbe other day for annexing a toast-rack and some
cheese mats —
Maud, she was a little Lamb,
Her soul was white as snow ;
But she annexed a toast rack, and
To gaol she had to go.
Mr. Coleman Phillips, a N.Z. squatter, in
a letter published in a Wellington paper, informs
tbe people generally that their “ home is the sea.
Send alii your boy a to sea.” Writes Coleman,
enthusiastica ly, “the girls are all wanted at
horn?.” Sly dog 1 he wants the boys out of the
way, and the girls all to his own cheek. And yet
he would pose as a freetrader.
“Baffled love quick turns to hate.” A
Kew (V.) man wearing a bump of amativeness as
big as a firebell has just been fined £lO for assault-
ing a woman who told him she would die first
before she would kiss him ; whereupon he struck
her twice ank kicked her. Had she been his wife
&10 i. fine would have been sufficient. This is
Due of the advantages of the married state.
Love, taking the ultimate form of a
Supreme Court verdict, has confiscated the bul-
bck-teams of Henry Kellar, teamster, who has
; joat had a £5OO breach of promise damages given
gainst him at Maryborough, Q. Two years ago
fnuisa Jane Kimmins met Henry and promised to
ttarry him after two days’ acquaintance, and
Henry, when matters had become complicated by
an addition to the population of Queensland, tried
to back out.
There are women and women. A firm of
; Sidney dentists sued a woman last week for £5,
said to be due on a set of teeth ordered. Defend-
ant fixed the grinders in her mouth in court to
trove to His Worship that they were a misfit, and
w °n the case. Not two women out of a thousand
do this. An ordinary female would rather
bi dragged to death by wild horses or go without
a new bonnet for a whole year than thus publicly
acknowledge her indebtedness to art for a portion
°f her general make-up.
Mr. William Ball, who tills the rich back
of Warrnambool (Vic.) wants another claise
slung into Shiels’ Bill to make divoice a little
more easy. Poor William has bsen roped for life
to a loving female who holds hi 3 beard while she
smites him with a bar of soap. He daren't go inside
when the missus is taken that way, and he’s fairly
tired of sleeping in the yard along with the dog.
The little Warrnambool boys taunt William by
enquiring—“How is she off for soap? ’ Fora
case like this, Shiels' Bill offers no amendment
whatever.
At Cooktown, a Chinese masher made love
to a fresh buxom young woman who pretended to
return his devotion until she had bled him to
the extent of two silk dresses, a bonnet, bracelet,
brooch, and earrings. When she saw that his
presents were not coming in so freely she intro-
duced him to a young relative, who fleeced him of
more valuables. Then John began to ply his suit
alternately, but neither would make him happy,
as each threw the responsibility on the other. The
poor Chinkie has offered to annex both ladies, but
the negotiations are very protracted and John is
rapidly losing flesh.
A lovely specimen of young Australia :
“ A lad named J ohn F. Pittard was charged with
assaulting his mother. He had threatened her
with a carving knife, threw things at her,
threatened to shoot her, and kicked her.” —Mel-
bourne paper. Let us give the old lady a verse,
which may come in handy as an epitaph some day
when her son is no longer restra’ned by feelings of
filial affection, and lays her out—
Beneath this turf the fragments lie
Of one whose fate was hard,
Her spirit soared up to the sky
Hoist by her own Pittard !
A young woman, described as “ a fashion-
ably-drfssed person,” drove up to Melbourne City
Pvlice Court one day last week in her own pony -
carriage, sttered by an elaborate coaohman in
livery, to answer a chargo of having stolen a
143. 31. pair of boots from a Collins-street store.
Tne fact seemed to be that the lady bought a
pair of No. 3’*, and bagged Another pair without
mentioning the matter. She was convicted and
“ sent up • for a week, but she dida’t driva away
in her own pony carriage. The Q leen was gra-
ciously p'eamd to order some men in blue uniforms
to give her a drive behind two ponies.
Her Gracious evidently doesn’t care for
stockiagp. A little girl in the Midland Counties
sent her a pair made by herself out of materials
bought with her own pocket-money, and they
were promptly returned with the following chilly,
formal letter : —“ Buckingham Palace, June 2,
1887. Sir Henry Ponsonby has received the
Queen’s commands to thank Miss Tempest for the
kind and loyal expressions contained in her letter
of 25th May. At the same time he returns the
stockings to the sender, as it is a rule that offer-
ings of this nature should not be received by Her
Majesty.” In spite of the ‘ rule” in question,
however, Victoria was graciously pleased to
accept two fresh eggs from a loyal Irish woman.
You can’t eat stockings, doncherknow.
The “ excommunication ” of a Salvation
Harmy lassie is a sad and solemn ceremonial. It
seems that the offending female is summoned to
appear before her particular “ capting” and show
cause why she should remain in the service of the
Loard After hearing all she has to say, the
captain proceeds to cross examine, reply on the
whole case, and “summon up.” Then he sports
the black cap and passes sentence after this
style :—“ Hallelujah Sarah, after a long and
patient enquiry this Court has come to the con-
clusion that you have dropped away from gerrace,
and orders that you immediately take off your
Salvation bonnet.” The wretched lassie there-
upon removes the saintly coal-scuttle and adopts
the head-gear of everyday sin. Such is Harmy
excommunication.
Overheard at a dance : “ Thanks—aw-
fully.”
The Freetraders puff their fine theories, and try
Facts patent to all to gainsay ;
But they cannot get rid of the vast unemployed,
Because they ain’t built that way.
A NEW DISCOVERY.
Hoffman’s Eucalyptal (mixture and injection) positively
cures all urinal and kidney complaints, inflammation,
gravel, lumbago (pains in the back), &c. Purely vegetable
Contains no balsam (paiba), or sandal wood. All principal
druggists and storekeepers. Price, 2s. 6d. and 3s. 6d. lake
no substitute.*
Sydney Bicycle Club.
THE Sixth Annual RACE MEETING of the
above Club will be held at the Association
Ground, Moore Park, on SATURDAY, 3rd Sep”
tember next.
J. WILKES,
297 George street. Hon Seo
H w
OPERA HJU E
Under the Management of Mr. B. N. Jones.
“ KISS ME, DARLING.”
“ROARS”
“ SORE AMS.”
“ CONVULSIONS.”
AT THE EXTRAORDINARY SITUATIONS
of
A NIGHT OFF.
QRITKRION THEATR
Sole Proprietor * Mr. John Solomon
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS
of
BROUGH and BOUCICAULT’S
NEW LONDON COMEDY AND
DRAMATIC SEASON.
Unqualified Success |
Unqualified Success
Unqualified Success J
of
Our Regiment
Oar Regiment
Our Regiment
Produced under the sole direction of Mr. Dion
Boucicault, jun.
Two more Performances Only of
OUR REGIMENT.
OUR REGIMENT.
Dress Circle, 58.; Stalls, 35.; Upper Circle, 25.;
Gallery Is. W. J. WILSON, Manager.
Seats may be secured six days in advance.
Thbatrb royal.
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. Sam. Lazar.
MAGNIFICENT SCENERY by GORDON.
WONDERFUL MECHANICAL EFFECTS,
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of
ALONE IN LONDON.
Prices as usual.
Tioketsfor all parts of the house at Eastway's Hotel.
gYDNEY EXHIBITION BUILDING
THE COLUMBIA ELITE
ROLLER SKATING RINK.
Open Afternoon and Evening to the Ladies,
Gentlemen, and Young People of Sydney as a first-
class POPULAR AMUSEMENT, where good
order and decorum are rigidly enforced,
The largest Amusement Palace in the world de
. voted exclusively to SKATING.
2000 Pairs of the Finest American Skates, and an
acre of the most beautiful skating surface,
are at the disposal of lovers of this
FASCINATING AMERICAN SPORT.
Mr. H. J. WALLACE, the Premier Roller Skater
of America, has been engaged, and will appear
every evening in a graceful and elegant perform-
ance of Artistic Skating.
ADMISSION-ONE SHILLING.
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
MACKAY.
UNSURPASSED accommodation for commer-
cial travellers, and families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy meets every steamer.
I make comfort of travellers a special study.
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. Y, ROBINSON,
Proprietor.
TO PHOTOGRAPHERS, PROFESSIONAL
AND AMATEUR.
Ready Sensitized Paper,
Prepared from the formula of the celebrated
Charles Durand, of London. Easy toniDg, 17s.
per quire ; Jqr. 4s. 6d. ; sample sheet, lOd. Pink
or white. Cash with order. AUSTRALASIAN
SENSITIZING PHOTOGRAHIC PAPER CO.,
5 Pembroke Terrace, Fowler-st., Camperdown,
Sydney.
Belle Vue Hotel,
BRISBANE.
Opposite Parliament Houses, Botanical Gardens,
and Queensland Club.
FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL.
ACCOMMODATION FOR 90.
A Waiter Meets Every Steamer.
Letters and telegrams please address Pro-
prietor,
S. M. COLLINS,
VKRYBODY \
Li SHOULD USE/
PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
FLOI7E!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest andmostapproved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
la GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
7IOTORIA FLOUR MILL,
RSI Oiom-HTiin. Smim
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, August 23, 1887.
TENDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the following PL BLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which ia kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten
ders are opened, and the name of the sucoessfu J
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind Itself to aocept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
>1
Dates to whic v
Tenders
oan be reoeived
at this office
Construction of Wharf and
Shed, Tucki Tucki, Richmond
River
Fencing &c., Post and Tele-
graph Office, Bowral
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph
Office, Tenterfleld
Fencing, &c, Court-house,
Bmmaville
Fencing, &c., Court-house, Bal-
ranald
Erection of Chimney, Hospital,
for Insane, Gladesvilla
Painting, &c., S at ion Buildings
at Wellington
Supply at Singleton Station of
20,000 Bricks
Supply at Hamilton Station of
30,000 Bricks
Cons ruction and Delivery of
Ironwork for Contracts Nos.
8, 25, and 30, Sydney Sewer-
age Works
Drainage, Victoria Barracks
Tuesday,
August 30,
at 11 o’clock.]
Construction, &c., Engine,
Pumps, and Boilers, Contract
3, Lismore Water Supply
Supply, &c., of Reticulation
Pipes, &c., Contract 4, Lis-
more Water Supply
Erection of Police Barracks,
Bourke
Erection of Fencing, &c., Poat
and Telegraph Office, Berrima
Erection of Room, Courthouse,
Jerilderie
Erection of Bridge, Rocky Gully,
road Walcha to Port Mac-
quarie
Supply at Bullock Island of 6000
Railway Sleepers
Tuesday,
September 6,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Waiting Shed, &c ,
Unanderra, and Station Build-
ings, & o , Dapto
Supply of Coke for Newcastle-
Plattsburg Tramway
Additions, &c., Courthouse,
W arren
Additions, &c., Gaol, Yass
Construction of Yerandab, &c.,
Post-office, Moruya
Construction of Water Closets,
&e., Courthouse, Gosford
Erecion cf Bridge over Wil-
liams River at Munni Crossing
TiHsJay,
September 13,
at 11 o’clock
Additions, &c., Locß-up, Wagga
Wagga
Construction cf Tank, Court-
house, Cooma
Fencing, &c., Courthouse, Lis-
more
Erection of Stable, &c., Court-
house, Collector
Additions, &c., Courthouse,
Brewarrina
Erectic n of Quarters for Gaoler,
Wollon jong
Tuesday,
September 23,
at 11 o’clock.
JOHN SUTHERLAND.


BEHALF OF THE BRUTE CREATION.
The signal benefits derived by mankind from the
Use of St. Jacobs oil have very reasonably induced
i S application to the sufferings and ailments of
the dumb creation, beginnirg with the horse.
People who tried it were more than surprised by
its results as attested in the speedy and permanent
cure of their stock, and they gladly announced
their expsrience by word of mouth and by the
public press, nntil to-day farmers and dealers,
ftockmen and breeders, the country over, are
Using Sc. Jacobs oil with delight, satisfaction, and
profit. It is within bounds to assert that many
thousands of horse 3 and slock are yearly lost to
labor and usefulness for want of suitable and iro.
mediate means of treatment when sick or dis-
abled. The unprofitable experience of horsemen
and others, interested in stock, the world over,
will abundantly justify this announcement. The
mistake of considering that a horse shoud be un-
able to stand, before it needs skilful treatment is
far too general and valuable animals are lost by
thus wastiDg time. The worse mistake of think-
ing that anything is good enough for a horse is
made by others who lcse their stock by a miser'
able effort at economy. There are others, how-
ever, who humanely regard the welfare of their
faithful dumb creatures, and provide for their
comfort with good fcod and shelter, and for their
health by a constant supply of St Jacobs oil —
the safest and speediest relic? for diseases of
horses and stock ever discovered. Whenever
there appears any evidence whatsoever of disease
or injury among animals, they should have the
best possible treatment, as it never pays to defer
attention to stock. Inasmuch, then, as it is the
part of common prudence to use the surest
curative means in the beginning, every stable,
farm, and stock-yard should be abundantly sup-
plied with £T. Jacobs oil, which is used and re-
commended by the best horsemen in the country,
as an article which will relieve more promptly and
certainly the ailments of and injuries to stock
than any other remedy known. For Spavin, Ring-
bone, Wind-gall, Flesh Wounds, and Galls of all
kinds, Poll-Evil, Splint, Swellings, Tumors,
Fistula, Lameness, Stiffness, Cramps of the
Muscles, Acute and Chronic Founder, Mange )
Corus, Whitlows, Broken Knees, Cuts, Sore
Throat, Distemper, Colic, and many other diseases,
especially Footrot in sheep, St. Jacobs oil affords
instant relief and a sure cure, and costs but a
trifle.
For the guidance of those using St. Jacobs oil
for the relief of horses and stock, it might be well
to state, in general terms, that in almost all cases
it answers equally as well to dilute the liniment
as it doss to apply it in its original strength. The
best medium of dilution is pure vinegar (which
will render the Odcloudy upon mixture therewith)
or sweet oil. The chief object iu dilutirg St
Jacobs oil at all, is to guard against the possibility
of its removing the hair, which, however, grows
rapidly again ; such is the special stimulus of the
famous substance. So that where cases trise in
which it may be proper and necessary to use the
Oil promptly, it can be dona most appropr ately
without sepcial reference to this last contidera-
tion. To summarise the whole thing-whilst it
can be used as freely as desired without incon-
venience, provided no bandages or wrappings be
used to confine it, St. Jacobs oil can be made to
blister, if it be confined with bandages or oiher
devices—to utilise its complete power. Of course
we do not claim that St. Jacobs oil will cure every
disease to which stock is subject. We only claim
what the unimpeachable testimony of horsemen
of acknowledged national reputation and what
the opinions and experience of medical and
veterinary authorities support us in. In all
diseases of Horses, Cattle, glieep, and Live Stock
generally wherein St. Jacobs oil is applicable, it
will speedily, safely and surely relieve the com-
plaint, as a trial will demonstrate to even the most
incredulous.
jyj"AUD S. AND KATIE MIDDLETON.
The Cincinnatti correspondent of the New York
Spirit op the Times writes to that journal as fol-
lows:
Being in the neighborhood of Chester Park,
Cincinnatti's beautiful driving grounds, upon
which have appeared ni'st, if not all, of the
great horses of the day, it oicurred to me,
knowing that preparations were being made
for the coming spring trot, to enter. We did so;
and were soon in conversation with the justly
celebrated William W. Bair, the best known
horseman in the United States, a. gentleman who
brought out “Mar d 5.,” owned by William H.
Vanderbilt; “Katie • Middleton,” owned by R.
C. Pate; “ St. Julian,” and several more of the
very best horses in the country. Said we to
M. B'dr; “ In the management of horses, Mr.
Bair, mint not a trainer possess venterinary
knowledge, and know what to prescribe for their
ailments?” Mr. hair replied: “The horse has had
in the past as varied form s of treatment as man.
Now when the horse is afflicted with such ailments
as stiffness, bruises, cuts, &c , there is but one
article that should be used, and that is St
Jacobs oil, the Great Gei man Remedy. I know
all about horses, have applied several remedies,
and can say, without fear of contradiction, that
St. Jacobs oil is the only remedy to be relied on.”
Mr. Bair b'ing very busy, the scribe bade that
ourteou3 gentleman a lieu, and drove away. .
Last Sunday night, says a correspondent,
two K.C. clergymen in Sydney caught on to a new
creed, and preached scathing sermons against the
“unregistered faculty” of the city. Whether
they had been victimised or not, we can’t say, but
hovV is it that Dr. Jefferis has not felt a call to
“rise up William R ley,” and wrestle with the
new sensation ?
The experiments of. the scientists of
Laputa have been cast completely into the
shade by the. invention of Mr. E. Hancorne, of
Hawthorne (Vic.), for extracting gold from pyrites.
Mr. Hancorne proposes to place the ore on board
of a hulk moored at the entrance to Port Phillip
when the gold will be extracted by a natural
chemical process.
The other night a humorous burglar
effected an entrance into the Howlong (N.S.W.)
WHAT IT MEANT
FARE (seeing the blue ribbon in Jehu's buttonhole): “SO YOU’RE A TEETOTALLER, ARE
YOU?”
CABBY: “BLESS YOU, SIR, NO! I WEAR THE BLUE RIBBON COS WHEN GENTLE-
MEN SEES IT THEY ALLUS ASKS ME TO DRINK”
lock- .p, ani stole a policeman’s jumper and a re-
volver. The local paper naively remarks that the
burglar “ was evidently conversant with the
premises.”
The cheekiest resolution ever proposed by
a parson was put forward at a Sydney church
Anniversary Meeting, on 16th i,st. : “I propose a
resolution to return thanks to the Almighty for
ihe success,” &c. The resolution was carried.
But what if it had been negatived ?
A Geelong man named William Bell found
offence in the following remarks published in a
local paper, and grounded an action for damages
thereon
*’ The belli in lleiven rang out far joy, and the bells in
hell (for there are bells in hell) also."
Complainant stated that several of his children
and grand-children had pas3ed into the great un-
known, and the remarks quoted were a base in-
sinuation that his progeny were howling jubilee
in Sheol. That's a particular man if you like ; it
would hardly be safe to say that a tell was hung
in Geelong if a person didn’t wish to risk an
action for defamation of character with the super-
sensitive William. The observation complained
of was merely a statement of fact; there are
bells in hell —church bells, to increase the tor lUres
of the damned. We write this at a quarter to
eleven on Sunday morning.
Our dear young friend, Prince Albert
Victor, has teen made an LL D. at Trinity Col-
lege, Dublin !! “On this occasion,” says a Lon-
don print, “the undergraduates were clamorous
for a reply to the spf ech, but his Royal Highness
contented, himself by repeatedly boxving.” L. S.D.
is about the only degree which would suit this
brilliant youth.
Don't use stimul’nts, but nature's brain and nerve food
Hop Bitters. Beware of all except made by American
Co see
A Wonderful Food and Medicine known and used by
Physicians all over the world “Scot's Emulsion” not only
gives flesh and streugth by virtue of its own nutritious pro-
perties, but creates an appetite for tood that builds up the
wasted body. Read the following:—“ Scott’s Emulsion’
is,in my opinion an excellent and valuable co mound. I
have giv< nit to Consumptive patients, and have been de-
lighted with ths results O' tained It is pleasant to the taste,
and can be borne by the most sensitive stomach.
E. A- Rodway, M.D.,
F utter-Knowle, Darlington, Eng.
Large and small bottles at all Chemists.
£lO 000 MELBOURNE CUP £lO,OOO
At 203 each.
Run, Nov. Ist, 1887.
First Horse, £5,000; 2nd, £2,000; 3rd, £1 000; Sta-ters,
£1.000; Non Starters, £',000; to be divii d amongst them.
£2 000 MELBOURNE CUP £2,000
First Horse, £l.OOl, 2nd £3OO, 3rd £2OO, to Starters, £250,
Non Starters £250, to be divided am them.
Addiess —‘ Tattersall.”
C nre • f G Adams,
Tattersall's Hote 1 ,
Pitt-street., Sydney *
£5OO will be pai ' for at y case that American Co.’s Hop
Bitters will not cure or help. Doubt not see
The Progress op New South Wales —At present
there are 1.40? mi ea of railwav in operation ; there are
11 639 miles of t* Fg-aph wire; 425 State Sehoi Is with 1,161
Teache.s. These statistics, though of a miscellaneous
character, te tify to <he growth and v'gour < f this you hful
rolony. It r is easy to understand tmid so many worsing
classes and er wir.g child eo, how valuable and useful a
medicine is which posses'es the o>oper>y of checking and cur
ing those diseas«s peculiar to New South Walts itself or in-
cidental to life generally. This however is tie characteristic
<>f F reman s Original Chlurodyne ard has seen-ed for it in
N w S uth Wal s a reputation of (he highest character. No
other medicine has obtained a similar position ia any other
cel ny ami no cdonists have sp- ken in higher p aiss of the
virtue of Freeman's Chlcroayne than the residents* the
manufacturers, the shepherds, an l the miners of New
Zealand. Its vat e in the Nursery and in Fema’e Com-
plaints can scareely b 3 estimated. —Sold everywhere through-
out the Colonies. Insist upon having “Freem n’s” only.
Ktject substi ut s eg they a e woithlees. Trade Mark an
Elephant.*
One of the best managed and cleanest hotels in Sydney 1
the Great Northern, corner Charlotte Place and George
street. Having been thoroughly renovated, Travellers will
find it the cosiest place in Sydney. The shilling luncheon
there is immense *
Balsam op Virginian Prunes a most eflfectual remedy
for the Coughs, Colds, Croup, Asthma, Influenza, Hoarseness
Bronchitis, Shortness of Breath, &e. Rignev, late Mitchell,
King-stree
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF WINTER GOODS.
Yashlonabie Gtarmenfts to Order aft Moderate Prlees.
THE fourth chapter, and end of our self-imposed
task. It has been a duty ucdertaken oi
account of those who have so long encouraged us
with their support. It was last Saturday we com
menced the essay, and we pledged our reputation
to continue it, chapter by chapter, until we had
thoroughly exhausted the subject. We thought
three chapters would have sufficed, but find it
takes four.
Last Saturday’s issue saw the first part of our
essay upon HOW AND WHERE TO FURNISH
THOROUGHLY, S AFELYand E CONOMICALLY;
and in that issue, as the result of serious study
and careful deliberation we gave our readers a
the Carpet and Floorcloth floors upon
the 3th storey of the Great Central Emporium
Sydney.
We omitted giving the ad ress in the first issue,
but do so now, viz, LAWLHRS, 608 George-
street, Sydney. An old-established house, es-
tablished as long ago as 1860, and situate in the
centre of the city right between Liverpool and
Bathurst streets. A commanding and imposing
edifice, and stocked from floor to ceiling
Monday's issue treated of the extraordinary
stock of bedsteads, wire-mattresies and bedding
upon the floor of the 4th s orey; and Wednesday’s
issuedealtexclusively with the Bedroom Furniture
upon the floors of ihe 3rd storey. And now we
have to treat of the Dining and Drawing room
furniture and Library and Office appointments
upon the floors of the 2nd storey.
This last chapter is the one that claims the at-
tention of our readers, and we will be as brief but
explanatory as possible. LAWLER'S Suites differ
from most suites met with in Sydney houses, and
remind us on account of their solidity and fulness
of upholstery of the suites made before the age for
slop upholstery became general.
We have had our attention called to a magnifi-
cent solid walnut diningroom suite with misletoe
carvings and carved and moulded legs set with
best coppered wire springs, upholstered throughout
in curled horse! air, and covered in the best
Russian dressed real morocco, finished with
morocco binding and morocco -covered studs. The
suite was made fcr one of our well-known mer-
chant princes and was sold to him for £65. It
looked all out well worth 90 guineas, a figure one
of the furnishing salesmen declared he had re-
peatedly sold the suites at in London, Leeds and
Edinburgh. There is another Suite just being
completed in the factory, the couch and a few
chair, of whi<h we were shown, and we have no
hesitation in decla ing it to be the best upholstered
suite we have ever seen. No one with money
could resist it. It is a glorious suite, splendidly
finished and boldly conceived, and only £6O. It
would be cheap at £BO. We felt bound to admit
that it wa3 stupid purchasing at auction sales
when LAWLER’S celebrated light oak or walnut
or real mahagony specialty—the Emporium
Leather Suite at £27 10s , could be had direct
from the factories lu Union-lane. There are
Diningroom Suites all made and upholstered upon
the premises in cak, waluut or Mahogany, and in
crimson or olive Utrecht velvets at £24 10s. and
£ 7 10s. And there are mahogany and cedar
Diningroom Suites in the best English made hair-
cloth, or in Cockett’s maroon or green-colored
leather-cloth at £l2 . os., £l4 10s. and £l7. LAW-
LER'S set their face against turning out suites in
hair-cloth at anything less than £l2 10s., saying
they would only have to resort to common German-
made seating if they were to manufacture hair-
cloth suites at a penny less than £l2 10s.
Our readers ought all to bear in mind the im-
portant fact that they can select their ft ames at
LAWLER’S and choose whatever coveiing they
think fit, and can call round at any time and see
the work in the upholsterer’s hands.
We would remind those who prefer the Austrian
Suites to upholstered Suites that they can havo
one of those grand and luxurious Couches, the
Eugenie, at £3 195., and capitally suited for an
after-dinner smoke or nap they are. Long and
broad—a perfect nest of spiral springs, the head as
well as the seat being so upholstered.
This Eugenie Couch of LAWLER’S, at £3 19s. is
a perfect marvel of value, and to show the esteem
in which it is held we have only to remark that
since LAWLER reduced the price from £5 ss. to
to £3 19s , the present low price—since he reduced
the Eugenies to £3 J9s. he has sold 200 and odd of
them, or an average of five a week.
We have no intention of referring to Sideboards
or Dinner Waggons ; nor were we inclined to take
up much of our important Saturday’s space with
Extending and Telescopic Dining Tables, buthaving
been shown a few very special lines we think it
our duty to name them.
Frst there is the Hotel Sideboard, 6ft. long, with
glass back, bracket shelf, enclosed cupboards and
drawers, all solid cedar, price £8 10s. Then there
is the Cottage Sideboard, with large glass back,
cellarette cupboard and drawer enclosed, brackets
for ornaments, &c., &c., £ll 10s. and £l2 10s
There are Cottage Sideboards at £3 15s. and £5
ss. And for mansions a range of best made Side-
boards in walnut, oak and mahogany at £l7 10s ,
£25, £27 10s , £35. Therj are massive Sideboards
in pollard oak with all the latest improvements,
of bold de-ign, faithfully built, with immense
bevelled glass back, cellarettes, &c., &c., at £45.
Brokcases and Cylinder Writing Desks in oak,
walnut and mahogany. Dinner Waggons, in the
same woods.
A grand slock ofelegaht Pierglasses and Over-
mantels
But what surprised us most was the quantity
of Drawingroom Furniture, Suites, Cabinets,
Brackets, Tables, &c, turned out by L AWLER’S.
The turn-over of the establishment with its
different departments, its wonderful Boot and
Shoe floor, the Furniture, Caipet3 and Bedsteads,
the Ironmongery and Glass and China, the Drapery
and Clothing and Hats and Caps must be some-
thing extraordinary.
Upwards of 400 Drawingroom Suites turned
out ia 12 months, and ranging in quality, style
and price from the simple but serviceable Repp
Suite 3 at £lO 103. to the prettiest and most
effective Occasional and Harlequin Suites in
Parisian tapesiries or plushes at £45.
As in Diniogroom Suites, LAWLER'S will not
turn out anything under £l2 10s. so with
Drawingroom Suites, they will not touch any-
thing under £lO 10s. LAWLER’S hold that the
customer who pays more than £65 for the pro-
duction of the best of Morocco Dining-room Suites,
or above £5O for the loveliest and mo3t charming
of delighful special things in Drawingroom Suites
deserve» to be declared a Tittlebat Titmouse"
and fit prey for high-toned but unprincipled
furnishing ‘ Oiiy Gammons.” And we think so,
too.
Time and space—that i 3 newspaper space— i
pretty much like time and tide, will wait for
none; so that, although we would like to refer
to Cabinets. Whatnots, Music Canterburys and
a thousand other articles, we are compelled to end
our essay by repeating at its close the words with
which we commenced—viz,, that the place at
which to furnish safely, surely, thoroughly,,
ec.nomically and well is
LAWLER’S,
608 GEORGE-STREET SYDNEY.


674
GEORGE ST, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
is the Only Address of the
I
DIRECT SUPPLY
. 5
IMPORTING RIRECT,
and Selling at LONDON PRICES,
in fact it is the Cheapest place for buying all kinds
of Musical Instruments and every pescnption of
Fittings, and purchasers will do well before buying
to compare our prices with others.
No connection with any other firm.
Sole Agents in Australia
FOB
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6,
6/- and 5/6 a set.
Single ones in proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d„ and Is. each,
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d, Is.* and Is. 3d. each,
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Guitar, Cello, Viola, Double Bass, Harp,
Zithar, fa, fa
o
ACCORDEONS, at 7/6, 10/6. 12/6. 16/-, 17/6, 21/-
25/*, 30/-, 40/-, to £6. __
peolality i Miniature Accordeon, double bellows,
strong tone, 21/-
„ Ditto, oak wood, patent steel notes,
42/-
10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality i Tyrolese Violin, with case, bow, and
instruction book, 35/-.
„ Italian Violin, with case (look and key)
Bow, Tutor, and extra set of
strings, £2 10s.
„ French Violin, with extra finished
oase, full mounted bow, Tutor,
2 extra set of strings and fittings
£4 10s.
4/6, 15/6, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-,
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Speciality : Steel noted Rosewood Concertina
in box with key 35/-
Splendid Organ-toned Concertina,
in box with key 21/-
6/-, 7/6, 10/-, 12/6. 15/-, 17/6,. 20/-, 25/-, 30/-,
up to £l2 12s.
Speciality: Walter Howard Model Nickel Banjo,
£3 3s.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10s.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
’Speciality: 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case,
for £2 10s.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT.
Orders promptly attended to, and all instru-
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
'the colonies.
Enquities attended to by return of post,
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN.
674 GEORGE STREET,
MASON BKOTHEKS,
BS»
LIMITED,
268 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA.
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky,
J. SORIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
T. GAYEITS
Schnapps and Genova.
A. MEL YIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
Prince of Wales Hotel,
MACKAY (QUEENSLAND).
FIRST-CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and families, private sitting
rooms without extra charge.
Billiard Room, plunge and shower Baths, large
Sample Rooms.
MARTIN GIBSON,
Proprietor.
A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL,
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks After
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, if you miss Foley’s you
HAVE NOT SEEN THE CITY.
Take all in all.
—Take all the Kidney and Liver
Medicines,
—Take all the Blood purifiers,
—Take all the Rheumatic remedies.
—Take all the Dyspepsia and indigestion
Cures,
—Take all the Ague, FeV6r, and bilious
specifics,
—Take all the Brain and Nerve force
revives,
—Take all the Or eat health restorers.
In short, take all the best qualities of all these
and the — best
—Qualities of all the best medicines In the
world, and you will find that — Hop Bitters have
the best curatives qualities and powers of all—
concentrated in them.
—And that they will cure when any or all of
these, singly or—combined. Fail 1111
—A thorough trial will give positive proof of
this.
Hardened liver.
Five years ago I broke down with kidney and
liver complaint and rheumatism.
Since then I have been unable to be about at all.
My liver became hard like wood ; my limbs were
puffed up and filled with water.
All the best physicians agreed that nothing
could cure me. I resolved to try Hop Bitters ; I
have used seven bottles ; the hardness has all gone
from my liver, the swelling from my limbs, and it
has worked a miracle in my case; otherwise I
would have been now in my grave.
J. W. Morky, Buffalo, Oct. 1, 1881.
Poverty and Suffering.
I was dragged down with debt.'poverty and suffering for
years, caused by a sick family and large bills for doctoring.
I was completely discouraged, uutil one year ago, by the
advice of my pastor, I commenced using Hop Bitters, and in
one month we were all well, and none of us have seen a sick
day since, and I want to say to all poor men, you can keep
your families well a year with Hop Bitters for less than one
doctor's visit will cost. 1 know it.' 1
A Workingman,
Prosecute tlie Swindlers !!
If when you call for American Hop Bitters (see green twig
of Hops on the white label and Dr. Soule's name blown in the
bottle ), the vendor hands out anything but American Hop
Bitters, refuse it and Bhun that vendor as you would a viper;
and if he has taken your money for anything else indict him
for the fraud and sue him for damages for the swindle, and
we will pay you liberally far the conviction.
0 N U M B N T
In Granite, Marble, and Freeßtone,
Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Kstlmates forwarded on reques
J. CUNNINGHAM,
K»A**T-8»*«T, WYXWARD-BQUAM, BTDMJJT
Q
#•••
Eczema on Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
dllo
V
Scrofula on Neck*
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticuba Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticuba and CUTICUBA Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally. •
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles t and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticuba Soap and a single application of
Cuticuba, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticuba Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy
eicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and go-,
no relief until I used the Cuticuba Remedies.
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood!
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Austbalian Consionees,
K. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVE!, , the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticnra, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pare by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
■ •i .grists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and Hew
!c: A. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$L >j. Juticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
up- -cvp, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
ort le.
Prepared by the
Pottsr '; rug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
THE GREAT BLOOD PURIFIER
BRISTOL’S SARSAPARILLA
Is the Safest and best Purifier of the Blood and Humors. It Is Infallible in its power
to cleanse the Human body, and where it is used according to directions, there can be no
unclean Eruptions, no Pimples, no Blotches, no Boils, but instead thereof a Clear Smooth
Soft Skin. The fact is of the first importance to Ladies who take pleasure in A FINE
COMPLEXION. No cosmetic, no wash or lotion will so surely give you a beautiful skin
as will the use of
BRISTOL'S SARSAPARILLA,
and to those who are already afflicted with any skin disease, we say in all good faith try
this great medicine, and, our word for it, you will obtain all we here promise.
Full directions how to take this most valuable medicine will be found on the label of
each bottle.
Caution. —As there are In this market numerous inferior so-called Sarsaparillas’ the
Public who desire this great Blood Purifier should be careful to ask for Bristol’s.
QAM BK OBTAINED FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS
JgKAD j&Y, NBWI9N, ft LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS'
>
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and C'CONNELL STREETS
Full suites for dining-room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match.
Self-adjusting hammock
Patented.
CHAIR
This chair adjusts itself to any pos tion, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous ositions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. K 3" We can
now supply portable suspension Stands to enable
the Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with
Stand 30/-; Without Stand 26/-.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB (only).
Packing in canvas, if required 2s, 6d. extra.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably Up-
holstered, at all pfiojs. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
CCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &o. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell and
Spring Streets.
am
IM’i
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid"
ing Trays, Stationery Draw*
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart*
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell and Spring
Streets.
□□
Drawing room oabi
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
FUMfITOM WABUHOUBirair,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Street!,
sfd
£•O fiT PIANOFORTB,
dvOO guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brll ant
tone, In handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Limb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by tho'MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
fs
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS
In
GRBAT VARIETY,
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB,
Spring & O’Connell sts.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed*
rooms. New designs oovered to order In
any material.
Self-adjusting chair and couch, for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest*
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
'-3CS>
EDSTBADS, all stall
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety,
Bedding,—All descriptions at
lowest rates.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and!
LAMB,
Importers,
O'Connell and Spring Streets,
df
SPRING MATTRASSB 8
Woven Wire, beet
make | also, Spiral Sprint*
Price, from lls. each,
BRADLEY, MBWTON and LAMP.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d.; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d,|
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.) Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s.i Cedar Side*
boards, from £3losi| Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d,
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 5 Os.
BKADUTT, KEWTOH. and LAMB,


In the Bodyke eviction cases (57) the rack-
rents amounted to £1521 13s. 10d., the judicial
rents to £993 55., and Griffith's valuation to £758
15s. ! The latter includes tenants’ improvements
Now that butterine is made in N. S.W.,
the Government ought to follow the French
example and compel vendors to label the name,
not only on the shop figD, but to stamp it in the
stuff itself.
Dr. Madden asked a boy witness in Mel-
bourne Central Criminal Court the other day
what a certain person had been talking to him
abcut. ‘He only tdd me to see that I did not get
bamboozled when I came to court,” was the reply.
That grand old warrior, Von Moltke,
draws only £l6OO a year, while Prince Christian,
one of the German hangers-on to (he English
Royal Family, scoops full pay and allowances as
a general amounting to £2500 a year from England.
What a satire
The Children's Hospital Bow. —Lovely Woman v. That Brute, Man.
“Old Sir Alfred’’ celebrated his 85th
birthday last week. The head of the house of
Stephen and Dean Macartney, of Melbourne, are
runniig a race “for age.” The latter is two
years the senior of the ancient Chief Justice, ard
yet it’s a caution to see him stride down Collin
street.
The Botany Bay people object to Chinese
riding inside tramcars. They are getting viry
honey down t here. Next thing will be that the
Chinese will object to the sons or grandsons of
convicts riding on top of the tramcars. P.S. —
This par. comes to us on a piece of Union Club
paper.
Sir Henry Parkes complains that there is
a lack of novelty about the suggestions offered re
the celebration of the centenary. He must have
overlooked our little proposal. We suggested
that politicians should celebrate the anniversary
by paying 20s in the £. There would he heaps of
novelty about that.
The M‘lntyre (Q.) Herald (run by a
i Scotchman) declares that the reason the Queen
| stopped her carriage when the Marquis of Lome
got his Jubilee spill was because he fed in front of
the wheels. Her Gracious knew that a jolt over
his carcass would capsize the Royal party.
The St. Leonards railway runs by a large
block of land belonging to the Anglo-Australian
Land and Investment Company. The Govern-
ment intend to extend the Leichhardt tramway to
another estate, a great part of which belongs to
the game Company, although the line does not
pay. Everybody knows who the shareholders of
the Company are.
Mr. Nicholas B. Downirg, ex-City Mission
preacher, organiser of packed meetings, and un-
successful Freetrade candidats for Northumber-
land, is the newly-appointed travelling agent for
tbe N.S.W. Freetrade Association He is the sert
of man who will make the cause of Freetrade as
popular in N.S.W. rs the Salvation Army drum in
a well-regulated community.
The strangest suicide of all is that of
Henry B. Gill, a digger at Cargo (N.S.W.), who
drowned himself the other day rather than face a
magistrate on a charge of bad language—
He’d rather face the unknown land,
The dread uncertainty.
Than in an earthly courthouse stand
Before a bush J. P.
Says the D.T., concerning the goods and
chattels of Lord Loftus, “ Other articles were
generally believed to be presents which had been
received during the ex-Governor's lengthy diplo-
matic career.” To ditto a libel like this it would
be necessary to speak of “the terrace built by
Policeman Caubeen out of the proceeds of sou-
venirs presented to him during his term of service
in the foorce.” Wc deprecate such imputations
made against men who have represented Her
Gracious.
The Dan O’Connell mine has, it is cabled,
been withdrawn from the English market. Ics
name was probably against it. A few years ago,
we remember, another good Charters Towers
claim, “ The Scotchman,” was about to be offered
to the Londoners by W. Pritchard Morgan. But
do yon think that Morgan was fool enough to put
“The Scotchman” under the no3es of the Stock
Exchange people ? No, indeed. He re-christened
the claim “ The Disraeli,” in deference to Conser-
vative prejudices, and “all passed off har-
moniously."
The Sydney Nation, a II C. organ, says
that “ Dr. TorreggiaDi (R.C. Bishop of Armida'e,
N.S.W.) appears to bear his increasing weight
with good humour.” No doubt this portly ecclesi-
astic feels good-humoured at his increasing
weight, as, so far as we know, he’s not engaged to
row against Hanlan or meet Fogarty at Foley's
rooms. But as all men—and especially bishops—
have to contend with the flesh, when we find
that the flesh is beginning to prevail, we commence
to suspect that the world and the devil will also
be too much for the successor of the apostles.
Latest advices from the Congo report that
H. M. Stanley is safe. So is the other Stanley, of
Mount Bennie notoriety, who on Friday last was
remanded for a week on a charge of forgery. It
is pretty plain now that the latter Mr. Stanley,
whatever else he may be, is a first-class romancer.
We wonder how Governor CariDgton and Mayor
Riley and the daily Press and the well-dressed
mob from Sydney Exchange now feel concerning
the hero who “was worthy of the Victoria
Cros3?" We also wonder whether it is decreed
by the irony of Fate that Mr. Stanley’s forgery-
trial shall take place before “Doctor” Windeyer?
The Thompsons of West Melbourne seem
to be a divided family, especially at dinner-time.
According to Mrs. Thompson’s showing the cus-
om has been for the head of the household to go
out and refresh himself at a five shilling dining-
room, w hile the children received sixpence apiece
and were bundled out to partake of greasy chops
in a hash-house, and Mrs. Thompson herself was
served with a billyfull of bones and slush in the
stable and dined with the horse. The court held
that this sort of thing wasn’t fair to the horse, and
awarded Mrs. Thompson £1 per week so as to
enable her to stay away from the horse in future.
Last week a son was born to a gentleman
described in the Age notice as “Bootmaker to
Sir Henry Brougham Loch and Lord Carington.’
The enterprise cf one who contrives to give him*
self bold trade advertisement every time his wife
has a baby cannot be too highly praised. It is tn
example worthy of imitation. If Car'ngton eBts
meat (and we guess that, despite his intimacy
with Bishop Barry, His Excellency is affected
with the curse of the country) we would suggest
that the vice regal butcher might break out occa]
sionally in this style "On the something inet ,
at Brisket Villa, Potts Point, the wife of Tender
Steak, Esq., butcher by appointment to Govern]
ment House, of triplets. Mother, baby, and His
Excellency all doing well.’ By the way, tte
happy Melbourne father ought to christen that
little stranger Brougham LochDe Boots Carington.
The cableman has been actively engaged
during the past week or so, and he has been
specially successful in reference to the explorer
Stanley. We have a few of the cables before us.
They run something like this : - London, Friday:
Stanley is dead. London Saturday : Mortifica-
tion has set in. London, Sunday : Hopes are still
entertained of his recovery. London, Monday :
Stanley is not dead ;it was his mother. London,
Tuesday : Stanley has been seen near the fourth
cataract, in the precincts of the Evening News
office. London, Wednesday : Daubts are enter*
tainedj of there ever being a Stanley. Londor,
Thursday: It is now proved that Stanley never
existed. London, Friday; Stanley is a myth.
London, Saturday: Stanley is alive. Sydney,
Thursday : Stanley las been arrested for forgery.
P.S. Th 3 other Stanley, we mean.


,
, OJKBO,
MA.<yMnsrMit y j^obsr€jela3n
61* GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
c
s*
5
IRONMONGERS
512
A
&S
SPECIALITIES I
Davis’ Seville Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Faint, ilbo Carbon Light
ELECTRO PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
HAS COOKING STOVES I—LKONIS FLETCHER'S, JEANS ft WALKER'S
BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES, Ac,
NEVER-traVEL without it.
5
\P
y vi
EFFECTUALLY DEStROYS
/ ALLNOXIdUS INSECTS
AS ru ES. BEETLES MOSQUHOES.
Roaches,and ;s
SAME TIME aU»TE ;:
r ro BIRDS DOGS
OR OTHERS
A
A
mm- y
a> A -vix* ,
<b x V wv -A* j,
rc? <J\V^
*? .vV ■v c 3‘ •■- s£S ■>V
” C-' / V 4 V '
'* A ‘
MiN
FELT 0 N'G P i MWADEUC C
-MELBOURNE
[WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
w HAT iS YOUR HOBBY?
have n
you A ? ne Of
q ® oa e n t hap-
8 r £ y°u
1 tor *>ut a" n one
c V4,s°° rBat -
*fa»» «S»*«
. °ostl y portals
™ ys they
A
#*
The ;>oBt of every; requisite
for a beginnerMs bo low, It. will
Burprlse
•_ _ -
Satisfy yourself {by aTMelt
~.«? rf :S» , «SC3S=3
to our I- .,
S’ 'A!
WHOLES AUtffrE
M • f
PHOTOGRAPHIC?
WAREHOUSED
®s-&aw(te ’
NER AND CO.,
U °'OONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
otrBE FOE Photographic Supplies
m t he Southern Hemisphere.
'isr
o
** OUR NEW C .A. TA_ LOG- XJ 33„
our new Enlarging Department in work, and shall be pleased to
oenfl price lists upon application to tAe trade only,
%
fA CTUR
'•to
5$ STREET
SSSM?;
CM U ) GBD GrBD
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRaND
of
BBXAR PIPES
KNOWN AS THE BEST ADD OVER THE WOR?jD,
Still maintains its Prestige and stands pre-eminent among
the hosts of other brands as ;
THE BEST QU ALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforce the Law against
all persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT 8s CO.,
231, CLARENCK-STRKET,
GrBD
GBD.
We have Large Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to hand, and Regular Shipments coming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY.
The bane of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT-STREET, and 638 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000.060
Reserve fund ... w 606,000
‘The Bank has Agents In all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing In Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Coramer
dal and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts Issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application,
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
A.A,DEBNEY i C?
13 "HUNTER STREET,SYONEY.
SHIRT MAKERS?
w
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
sP
PATENT
m
P ILLS
$
55
«
&
4*
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a pox for bilious
and nervoui disorders,
Such as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches oh
the skin, disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, 4c. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
done it in thousand# of cases. Every sufferer ig
earnestly invited to try one hoi of these Pills, and
they will he acknowledged to he
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEECHAM’S
PILLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the syßtem. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they win soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digesr*<m and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whols muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of. health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society ; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beeclmm’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world,
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, .Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest,, Wheezing, &c., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Bxxchak’s
Cough Piths a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be
removed,
Ca ution.— The public are requested to notice that s
the words “ Bkecham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d»
each.—Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B. —Full directions are given with sack box.
Commercial Hotel, Gympie, Queensland,
THE above 1h one of the oldest Family and
Squatting Hotels In the colony. Price*
reasonable. Sample Room.
Superior accommodation. Hot and Cold Baths.
Mrs. W. COMPIGNE, Proprietress.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for.its lasting and natural
fragrance. „
Thrms Goto Medals-
PARIS,IB7B; CALCUTTA, 1884,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality,
ESSENCE OF WHITE ROSE
FRAN GIF ANNE I YLAN GY LAN G
STEFHANOTIS IOPAPANAX
and other well-known Perfumes .ire un-
equalled lor tli«lr delightful and lasting edour
Atkinson’B celebrated
EATJ DE COLOGNE.
Unsurpassed for its strength and delightful
fragrance. Xt is far snperior to the numerous
compounds sold under the same name. ■
Of all Dealer*, and o* the Manufacturers—
J & E. ATKINSON,
21, Ova Bond Street, London
Trade Mark— “ White Bose" ou“ Golden
Lyre ”
MARSHALL'S
TONIC NERVINE
Trade Mark<— ? ‘ TONIC NERVINE."
M
ARSHALLS TONIC NERVINE
Promotes Appetite,
Improves Digestion.
Cures Nervous Debility-
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers—Prioe A/6,
Prepared only by
MARSHALL BROTHERS,
Swnby, N.S.W. 5 London,' England,
DIRECT IMPORTING CO.
\ , * *\ '
FOR
MUSICAL Rim
472 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Central Markets;
and at
705 George street,
Opposite Anthony Hordern’s, Haym&rkefc-
■■l ~ '" mW
7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15-, 20/-, 25/-, with Bow.
Violins, in cases, 30/-, 35/-, 60/,
Violins, in cases (superior), 70/- to £5, including
Tutor, Resin, Strings, &C.
Speciality :
Old Violins, £B, £lO, £l2, £l7, £2O, £25, £3O.
Concertinas ,
4/6, 5/6, 7/6 8/6 to £25/-.
20-key Anglo-German, by Lachenal. £1 17s. 6d. ,
20-key Anglo-German, by Lachenal, steel notes
best make, £4 ss.
22-key Anglo-German by Lachenal, steel notes
best make, £4 10s.
v 4ccordeons,
in great variety, 7/6, to 70/- each.
Special Line—Steel note, with wood case,
£1 17s. 6d,
Cornets ,
50/-, 70/-, 84/-. £5 15s„ £lO 10a., to £l6 16s.
Flutes ,
8-key Concert, 40/-; Others. 1/6 to 25/* eaoh. <
6-key Piccolo, 16/- to 35/-,
Banjoes, Guitars, &c„ in great variety.
tsr PIANOd and ORGANS.
Sf
p.O. Orders will be promptly attended bo.
fj
a he
uGH
BRONCHITIS
mm
HVf
D“ RIDGE’S
FOOD
ton INFANTS and INVALIDS
Has an enormous sal® «n England,
is now being introduced into tn#
Colonics.
CveTyStojrakeeper should get a supply
wise rootber will certainly
use tt.
nor*
tCijiDON-ENXII-AND.
WJ O H N S O N
• COOPER, SURVEYOR,
and
LICENSED BACB JB,
II PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND
STREET, SYDNEY,
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces and Kegs, Talow
Casks, new and second-hand} also, Wins and
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prices,
«AV«IN«i IN AU IT* SKAMCHKB#
NOTICE OP REMOVAL.
|> B. JONES, Importer and General Agent,
JLW jc KMoVBU to No. 6 BRIDGE-STREET,
SYDNEY.
AGENTS WANTED to handle our new lines
of fast-selling Subscription Books, &0., &c.
Pull particulars free on application. Address
R» B. JONES, 0 Bridg©-st., Sydney.
ofjSydrveg.
CAV£SmBLUE MOUNrAMSb


ROYAL Vf
VA
POWDER
Absolutely Pure.
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without tha aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
the Royal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists,
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government, Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Bakins
Powder Co., 106 Wall-street, New York U.S.A.
P.!R. IjAHKIM,
IMPORTER,
Family Wine and Spirit Merchant.
F
:CNIC and WEDDING PARTIES supplied with tie Choicest Brands of WINES, SPIRITS,
and BEERS at the most Reasonable Prices, ALL RETURNS BEING ALLOWED FOR.
Notwithstanding the Heavy Customs Imposts, P. R, L. still sells the "Best Glass of 1 RUM
BRANDY, or WHISKY IN THE CITY FOR THREEPENCE' -331 ISH v,iNi *1
“' The*sSNGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT is stocked with all the Leading Brands of WINES.
SPIRITS, &a, which are sold by the SINGLE BOTTLE AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL,
778 & 780 GEORG® STREET, SOUTH ,
STX£T£i7.
WALLACH BROS
!
t
isn EDW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
Aim
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
08*
p-*™-
WklW Wl
Overmantels,
ijnuuu w* 5
sbi Q-EOHGE
3PBOIAO
<he above *°°& ljk &■ sfe
srlcas. being the woo*
larthwlek, _Jj J
iquMe will have 9
jnsed under the
#,
itCh, 'ißßn* gg
and Grattan ffl{]
SSSf'-’SRsStf5?
>s«SSj^
and Mr,
.jarerequestea^^
ssatssas;
on
THB ££S£<&
S above Is
Intertalnmenw, w
n upon appUca'^ithS 8
H°S. Bo a^^'
*”E!S»*!22ad(
SSSmw
£. I^*
SIXNI»°
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
FRY'S MALTED
J. S. PRY & SONa Bristol, London, and Sydney.
"AS ORDINARY (TOP OOWTAISB MORH AOTIV**’
THAN A PINT OP THB BEST AM! OK
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &o.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmibhing, Blackamlthing, Plumbing,
Qasdtting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description,
BOULTON'S “FLUSH," “VALVE," and “PAN" CLOSETS, “VACUUM" WATER-
* WASTE, PREVENTERS, See. /
Sole Agents for Verity Eros., Patent Air Propellers, Kxhasus Fan Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters,
Warmers, Ac,
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND 9 MACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Pule. axd Psion est appocatio«.
Custom House Hotel,
BUNDABERG.
First-olasa Accommodation lor Squatters, Com-
mercial Travellers, and others.
«r Private Suites for Families.
Plunge and Shower Bath. Billiards.
Buggy meets every steamer.
HARRY McCANN, Proprietor.
NOaTHUMSEPLAMD HOTEL, Gyitrpie.
FiRST-ctji ss Accommodation fur Visitors.
WINES AND SPIRITS OF. ::HF CHOICEST
BRANDS.
J. F. E. STEWART, Proprietor.
C. H.
Man
lA.TS*
302 GB OB
8 Doors Soatb
C
PALAO®
townsvim*^
J, CRAMP, PBOFB*
|OX DUCT'"CP on JJ OCO 0 CO
J g,v K i Mslboum®
large Bi Hard RoaO»* 3
Prie k as fellows 1
THIS SPACE RESERVED FOR E. ROWLANDS.
Rowlands ,
MaeaaaarOil
has been known for nearly 100 years as the best and safest preserver, restorer and beantifier of
" ’ “' ’ • *’ " -r mineral ingredients, of wHcb most hair
lutir; it ia warranted free from any lead or mineral
narr sen., suay, euriy ami gtossy , juarso ssMirwsaspa tw gru.w um. <>r w iuvckhs n,iu
it is especially recommended for children as forming the basis of a beautiful head of hair, and
can also be had in a
GOLDEN COLOUR,
which, after great, time and trouble, has been especially prepared for the use of golden-haired
children and fair or grey-hair&l adults. Sizes 3s. 6d.; is.; family bottles, equal to four small,
10s. 6d. r ttttd double that size, 21s.
. ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a healing and refreshing preparation for
the face, hands and arms; it eradicates freckles, tan, sunburn, eczema, redness arid roughness
of the, skm, pimples, cutaneous eruptions, etc., and produces a beautiful and delicate
complexion.
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO whitens tha teeth, prevents and arrests decay,
ftongtheus the gums, and gives a delightful fragrance to the breath. Ask, anywhere for
RO W L ANDB' articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid spurious imitations unde”
similar names. . /
Wholesale and Retail Agenta-
-Ellioot Bros., and E, Prosser & Go., Sydney,
*
SODA WATER.
TIHB
Sjghsa Mil Tatar Co.,
15 CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Perfect Purity Guaranteed,
FREE
PRESCRIPTIONS are to
be found to the “ LIGHT AND
LIFE,” for the speedy cure ol Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this
hook will be sent free, sealed. Address—
a WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter-street, Sydney,
• 2 Cabinets
iJ.
L
yM
/7dl'\
in ,
ROJ^oW/wamSt
'f> H . K X £a S T
*iate of the Detective Force),
■*vSvf»t» Inquiry, Missing Friends, and {Stoners;
Business Aganey Office,
$8 BOY All ABO A 08. SYDNEY,
Absconders and wife deserts;* traced, and all kind* of
mSdential inquiries instituted, Svidenea obtained la
inures, libel, fraud, and incendiary eases, for the legal pro*
jgsion and others. Copies of wills, oertificates of birth,
arrtage, or death, obtained in any part ef the world
,ents and debts eolleeted. From R. M. R.’s ions experience
: i She Oetective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
>w Zealand, and estabUshed agencies in all parts of the
Jibe, ha is in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
..-qpsnMiu* and strictest seeresy, and to faithfully and
, aur •.» attend to all business entrusted to h oare.
T’h e science of life,
By W. Knox Parker, M.D.|
A Book for young and old men, 200 pages*
bound in cloth, and contains over 100 prescrip
clone. Price, post paid, 3s. 6d. Descriptive
sample free. Those suffering from Nervous ex-
haustion and Diseases should send at once for this
valuable work. Address: Doctor W. K.
Parker, Post Office Chambers, comer Bourke and
Elizabeth Streets, Melbourne, Via
sdfsdfsdfsdf
T. WILLIAMS & 00.,
IMPORTSKB OP
B|utj«h & Foreign Boots & Sixokg ,
AUo Manufacturer* of -
Tsra Finhst Quality o* Goods in tum above Links.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
wets
Cigpa* XD**.-\raxa.
<Next Royal Standard Theatre.)
Best kinds of Tobacco, Cigars and Pipes,
R. CLIFFORD,
CASTLSRBAGH STREET,
m
&
m
Guinness
jm’gs'T ' .
m
&
jp ; jl
■rfjijt
2%r
j?o°^
COMM®**
By
AGBNTS
w
9
: -
gov
SP®
BALCH
|W»
W
045f*»
*»**
jwBa«ggt**
M
J l.
R
anp
WINK
Opposn
Cotißtjry
**2§sss*^
JAS- In I
