

The Bulletin
eeth!
Teeth!
HIGH-CLASS DENTISTRY
Reform" prices !
/\
partite Sets
° d and Vulcanite do. -
Gold
£5.
£lO.
£l5.
Painlessly Extracted Under Nitrons Oxide Has Every Morning.
S-A-TISr^uCTIOaiT
i ll l""l L. '»
BSD.
2ST oto Addi es s:
Marshall Brothers,
EEEABETH STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY
N.B.- Country People need only stay in Sydney a few hours.


%
-TLLMSMIEP CffTALOOa ES.fcjyijCES -
W.H.PALING&G 11 *" 1
356 GEORGE ST SYDNEY. '
HliiUthe tffdev
* PAYMCtfS
inti Ireatesttfariet yin Australia-ftvtns the
rpwsiblecfioicer- PIANOS from£4o f OROANSfrom£l2-
Tt tfoNTHIV (INSTALMENTS TO'SWT'AU CUSTOMERS
PALING &G PH LING it 6»
HARD MAN Ems.
z
1117 J
yw iTw n » HT »»i ■
2
U^UHIUJ
TO^ißiiicon
NtTiRWCiTiQRS
j 2
mmu
' Go iprn Sr**rf
4*
TRCACI£
RFf/fitfßS
•s IF.
7 fstd,
toss (j
mu> Office i factory. Mcvytowh
BRANCH. CCOHCf SI SYQH£Y
THE AUSTRALIAN BANKING COMPANY,
__j LIMITED,
HEAD OFFICE:
CORNER of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY. fea
iTKD by Act of Executive Council.
CAPITAL, £500,000 STERLING.
RESERVE, £36,718 STERLING.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS—
The Hon. Francis Abigail,
M.L.A.
John Hurley, Esq., M.L. A.
J. F. Martin, Esq.
John Vann, Esq.
J. H. Nathan, Esq.
John Scott, Esq.
Arnold Mathey, Esq.
■ wYuiSfTwr
.ye »•
Erhe dividend declared and paid to the Shareholders a the
it Annual General Meeting, held on the 28th July last,
paid to Shareholders at the rate of 12J per cent.
per
Bonus paid to Depositors of 12 months (2 per cent.)
" ” " , l j >.«
The Fa«k transacts all usual Banking Business.
Current accounts opened, Bills Discounted, and
makes Advances upon all kinds of Commercial
Securities.
Agencies' in London and throughout the world,
OVERDRAFTS GRANTED AGAINST DEPOSITS 1
UV 07 DEEDS.;
Deposits Received,
Interest Allowed:
At Call, 4 per cent.
3 Months, 5 per cent.
6 Months, 6 per cent.
12 Months, 7 per cent-W >-
WITH BONDS ADDITIONS TO DEPOSITS.O7
MX AND TWELVE MONTHS.!
—-qj B-i,
Depositors can arrange to withdraw the whole
•r portion of their deposits without notice, and
Will be allowed current interest for the period of
deposit. v ' ‘
The Share Register is Btill open, and intending
lhareholders can obtain upon application any
Information they require, also printed copies of
report, minutes, formß of application for Bhares,
fto., fee. „ ,in .. fcL L-
BV ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS is
H. M'NAMARA,
SECRETARY
THOS. BUCK LAND,
MINING, MACHINERY, AND GENERAL AGIBS
Charters Towers.
Agent for Robey and Co., Engineer,, Lincolni
„ „ Langland', Foundry Co., Melhoumti VU
E. D. MILES,
MINING AND COMMISSION AGBM,
Mining Exchange.
CHARTERS TOWERS, QOBBNBLABD
?-x
UMBRELLAS
RECOVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have four Umbrella Framei re-
covered and four
Paraiola re-lined and made equa
to New, at
J, SULLIVAN’B,
541 Geo
Brickfield
Liverpool and
Faraioli mad
laatai Renal
rge Street,
Hill, between
Bathurit Streets
s to matoh aoi
n neatlf exeeuta*
Wtt.t.h' HOTEL, Macjkay, Queensland,
EDMUND DUNNOCK, Proprietor.
Travellers and [Families will find the old well-
known reputation maintained.
T[M-PKRIAL HOTEL, TOWNSVILLE.
Proprietress, SARAH EATON,
te of Mnswellbrook and Rockhampton.
JW First-olass Family and Commercial Hotel.
Masonic hotel, east-street, rock-
HAMPTON.—T. MURPHY, Proprietor.
Wayside Gleanings i—The “Western Cham-
pion" Bays i “ I can recommend the.Rookhampton
gfr*nnnin to my western friends.'
T ,tr,T HHHARDT HOTEL.
ROCKHAMPTON. ~ 'TI
Proprietress — Mrs. J. GIBBS,
(Late of Westwood. ■'*" A "IT'
First-class Family and CommerelaljHotei.
USE MOONEY’S ftCORN EXTRACTOR.
A SAFE AND SPEEDY CURE.
HAS NEVER FAILED. ..
Price, 2s. 6d. per bottle.
Posted to aU parts of the colonies free on reoelpt
Of stamps. w Wl --
MOONEY, Chemist, Cootamundra, N.S.W.J^,
Palace Family Hotel,
Corner op Stanley and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
First-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments.
Admitted the coolest and best ventilated
house in the city.
DAVID LYONS, Proprietor.
JjIXCELSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
wn, situated comer of Gill and Church-streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To aM Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tic-
Doloreux, Aching Pains In the Limbs
Face, or Head.
VV hjr suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Rel ief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary! In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT
ROSE’S CELEBBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to.be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Bole Proprietor,
I. 1. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Ohnnlst,
681 Georse-etreet only.
DR. O’CONNELL has removed to Edgar
House, No. 8 Bligh-street. Dr. O’Connell
does not need to advertise at all. His patients,
grateful for their cure and restored health and
vitality, and thankful for the sympathy shown to
them, and also the moderation of the charges,
advise their friends to consult and be cured.
Consultation (by person or letter) free.
Dr, J. O’CONNELL,
Edgar House
Comer Bligh and Hunter streets,
SYDNEY.
Qj
* l ORiCINAL
oWN BAR»WC p i I
J WAUGH'S %
rvr
OHUV
OBTAINED A
Fl|jsT CLASS AWARD |
• op '■'•'■l
HILHEST DECREE OF MERIT
%
-V \ .
u
r\2
ISTHEBESTINTHE WORLD!!
I NONE OTHER BUT
WAUGH’S |
receivedthe international r
PRIZE MEDAL
Manufactured b-yJamesChanhon
Harbour S t Stone?
Sold byAll Crocers and Store Keepers
WH>Mh
S'
S SUE*:
DtXSONXSONS
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY.
DIXSON ’& SONS’ CONQUEROR FACTO
not only manufactures MORE
THAN ANY OTHER, but CONSUMES
BULK OF THE AMERICAN LEAF M
into New South Wales, and hence tbe &
of their brands.
CONQUEROR, greater sale than any
Australia.
YANKEE DOODLE, SIR RODGER,
gold leaf.
DIXSON’S CUT RUBY, ORIENTAL
CIGARETTES, DIXSON’S No I ___ j
10,000 per hour, the choicest
and Paris rice tissue. *****
retailers at 3d. per packet of 10
NEW ZKAI AND
HERBAL REMEDIES.
TESTIMONIALS
From the Soudan Contingent Hosplta
Corps; also from eminent Doctors and
Students.from Sydney Hospital.
a
.
\
ié—Eéi ‘
;:r3%-_
;’=E' :7 3 :44
-':—_ 1-; : $938:
1'2}? "a?" ;
\‘~'-'~»' :.' 5 '~
4,; ‘ ‘V $1: 5"": ,.‘
'7“ “g\ \d;:‘;:——.~é:~‘ ‘
MM: *- ‘
\\\\\\\“MEV\V,<L;§V , .
‘1: 31‘ \ ‘ 1 ;.,.,;\\i-SE,\‘.;.‘\:
‘ "‘;"'\'\{\5—3-37? ‘ H
MONK’S
pile mixture.
2b. 6d. per Bottle.
Ask for it and take no substitute,
is an invaluable cure. See testimonials.
hvlohstki’s
Cholera, Dysentery, Dlarrhese Miitnre,
A positive core. Sold by all Chemists.
2s. 6d. per bottle.
MONK’S
NEURALGIA MIXTUPE,
2s. 6d. per bottle,
[Sole Agents!
MATHEY, NATHAN & GO.,
201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
AND
41 Little Collins treet East,' Melbourne.
MINING EXCHANGE HOTEL,
GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
The Central Hotel. Private Sitting Room.
Rendezvous tor all parties engaged in mining
business.
H. G. BAILES, Proprietor.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
FIRST-CLASS Accommodation tor Commer-
cial Gentlemen and Families. Private sitting
rooms without extra charge. Plunge and Shower
Bath. Billiards (Aloock’s). First-class chef.
Charges strictly moderate. Wines and spirits of
the best brands, Man meets every steamer,
HANRAN, Junr., Proprietor,
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
Contracting Carriers,
FORWARDING AGENTS.
Head Office: Townsville, N. Queensland.
G. S CURTIS,
Auctioneer & Real Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
MR. BOLTON (of the firm of Lowry and
Bolton) wishes to Inform the numerous
friends of the Firm and the travelling public that
he has gone to Monnt Morgan to take charge of
the SUNBURST HOTEL, which will henceforth
be carried on under his personal supervision.
Sunburst Hotel, Mount Morgan, centrally situated,
and facing the celebrated Mountain. Persons visit-
ing the celebrated Mountain will find every comfort
and convenience to greet them on their arrival.
BILLIARD TABLE AND PIANO ON THE
PREMISES, also STABLING for the accommoda-
tion of Thirty Horses, and a good PADDOCK
within five minutes’ walk of the Hotel. Coaches
DAILY FROM AND TO ROCKHAMPTON.
Note the Address—
(MICHAEL BOLTON
—> (Of the. Finn of Lowry ft Bolton),
B, U;~N BURST HOTEL,
CH MOUNT MORGAN.
REMINGTON
TYPE-WRITE
Sarei labour, itatlonerr, and Mate, writing much fail
man expert pen-men, and eondenilng matter to leu th
one-half the ipaoe oeonpled bf pen writing. Beantil
eoptei mar be taken in the nmal manner in the letter- pre
Bold wholeaale and retail bf the tole agent*,
IMKAY ft CO»f
410 Rent-street. 1 ”*
c
ft
MANUFACTURERS
* IMPORTERS OF
HATS CAPS U
438 CEO RCE ST
GRAND HOT^
BUNDABER 0 '
Under* New MaNAO® mS
_ f v
FINEST SAMPLE BOOM
r BA l^
PLUNGE AND.' SHOWS*
Good Stabling, and Loose Bo*e®
COl^'
(or B 9 ®*
8* p
00
DRAWING-BOOM S' oll " djJ
- ~,1^
Having engaged a flralj ' C l^*.ol» BS *
to cater for the public in a n
ALF. P. THo^>
RUSTON PROCT0 11 & '
“TRIUMPH" THRASBIB
‘"nr I*®®*
Simon's Roller Stst** 4 0
Sole Agents'
E. G. ELLIOT
54T KENT STRE®^'
THE GREAT NOR
CHARLOTTE-PLACE AND -fjl J
K. HAK^,
1 -ojSfafo*?,
WIIIS, SPIRITS,
yon please from the list of l" * 5J (®
Robertson's, Walker or Koval®, ( * p,
Dunville’s Shamrock and Burke ■ .. r
Brian Boru Whisky ** 0 g,
Hennessy’a * Oognao •• _ *“ . u.
*** * &'!*
Square Gin m m
Jamaica Bum _ %a, r j*
Red Heart do. .. •• S%U’ Ji
Flask* Brandy and Whiskieß U.?
English Ales and Stout, best hr { f 9M 9
Port Wine for connoisseurs ana Cgrt* u , (( rf
Port Wine and Sherry from * m 2W- JEjl
Best brands Whisky or Brandy fr "j. o lAh J
» CASE AMO' A f (0r jm
Superior AOOOMMODATIO^ tb eoO^ O (
attention afforded to pp?
rooms are conducted under the *^ u pe » » v>
late of Wellington (N.Z.), J» D o d
Guests will receive every attw> n 0 p
Wines, Spirits, and Beers aiwar
papers kept on file.*
ss<***/^
ii v IiCJfMwV
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
HIGHEST FINIS
COST!
at
lowest
IST
0
m
/
0
LOCOMOTIVES,
ESTIMATED
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET.
<0


The Bulletin
Vol. B~No. 405,
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1887.
Price od.
Little Johnny Haynes and Little ’Enery Parkes Settles the N.S.W. Railway Question.
In the course of our discussion the Premier and I arrived at an agreement as to the present and future difficulties of the Railway system; there was an agreement like wise as
to how they should be met "—Haynes, M.P. on the Railway bill.


“THE BULLETIN,"
The National Australian Newspaper,
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER Co
Limited. N
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wale 3
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable In Advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 os. Od.
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12s. Od.
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6s. 6d.
Cheques Drafts, itc., and all Business Communications to he
addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
L ’terary communications to he addressed to J.F. Archibald
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
tterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One-pound
Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you can have The
B ulletin posted regularly to you every week for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in the
hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to interfere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 5. 1887.
A World of Debt.
Weighed down beneath a mighty load of
indebtedness, the world moves wearily upon
its endless way. Generation succeeds gene-
ration, and as each in turn emerges from the
shadow land wherein dwells the vital prin-
c.pie.of existence it sorrowfully takes up on
its bendiog shoulders the huge burden be-
queathed by those who have gone before,
and after dragging it for a few brief years
along the dusty ways of life, it shuffles oft’
the load again at the gate of the tomb, and
leaves posterity to shift it another stage
onward. As it moves onits way the mighty
incubus grows larger and ever larger. From
end to end —from the pole to the torrid
zone —from ocean to ocean, and apparently
from everlasting to everlasting—the earth is
encumbered almost to its uttermost capacity.
The surface of the globe is everywhere in
pawn. The shadow of finance rests upon
the hills wherever the foot of civilised man
has trod ; the green plains are mortgaged ;
the farthest isles of the sea on which
“civilisation” has descended, are pledged
to the money-lenders of the great cities ; the
forests and the jungles are insolvent ; even
the caverns and recesses of the earth—the
rocks wherein are hidden the mineral riches
bestowed by the great Creator on a thank-
less race—the fathomless recesses to which
the light of day has never penetrated—even
they are burdened with debt, and from first
to last the works of God are up the spout.
The demon of greed liasfloatedall creationinto
shares, and the planet on which man struggles
through the little span that separates him
on either side from the Unseen, is financed
upon, and floated, and registered, and
mortgaged, and organised, and re-or
ganlsed, and liquidated, and litigated upon,
and consolidated, and rent to pieces
by the bulls and bears of the Stock
Exchange, until life is one feverish dream of
borrowing and lending, and there is no room
left for any human sentiment which cannot
be made a source of dividend. Man, in this
venal nineteenth century, is an animal pos-
sessed of credit, and without credit he is an
animal, and nothing more.
* * *
The rapid expansion of the system of
credit has piled up the debts of the world to
an extent which is all but incalculable. The
financial burdens of the various Govern-
ments of the civilised world now equal more
than four times the entire amount of coin in
existence, and are equivalent to fully one-
third of the movable property on the face
of the earth. Even reckoning in everything
that can, by any possibility, be regarded as
money value —even taking into account every
inch of the surface of this globe, and assess-
ing the wastes of Spitzbergen and Green-
land by the acre, and adding to the total the
worth of all the allegtd improvements of
man, from cities, railways, and palaces, down
to the furniture in the humblest labourer’s
cottage—the ever-increasing burden of na-
tional liabilities now absorbs 10 of
the whole, and the weight of obliga-
tions probably amounts to as mi ;h more.
For all practical purposes, mankind is
already well-nigh insolvent, but under the
inflated system of modern credit the debts of
the world are perpetually on the increase.
The dark mysteries of modern finance keep
the wheels of the great machine ever revolv-
ing. Every day bankrupt Governments and
bankrupt syndicates—we say nothing of
bankruDt politicians—are contracting huge
loans, borrowing money which doe 3 not
exist, and spending millions which are only
shadows, but which are placed at their dis-
posal in paper form by men who do not pos-
sess thorn, and thus the eternal scheme of
credit keeps the golden fiction of wealth
perpetually afloat.
* * *
The old Scriptural law which prohibits a
man from marrying his grandmother is pain-
fully incomplete. Probably it suited the
times of the warlike lawgiver by whom it
was first enunciated, but—prophet though
he was—he failed to foresee the coming of
an era when it would be more necessary to
prevent a man mortgaging his descendants
than taking his ancestor in wsdlock. Less
than two centuries of modern finance have
sufficed to make it an urgent question how
far any man or any body of men are jus-
tified in contracting liabilities wh’ch must
necessarily be handed down to the genera-
tions of countless sges to come. At the
beginning of the 18th century national
debts were practically unknown. Then the
demoniac spirit of the Lombard and the
Hebrew entered into the rulers of the earth,
and Europe, under a succession of bloated
tyrants, started upon a career of mad ex-
travagance which has already mortgaged its
future for 2000 —or perhaps 20,000 years
ahead. From 1700 to 1882 the debts
of that litVe Continent rose from nil
to £4,071,000,000, and they are still
on the increase. The probable date of their
liquidation is beyond the power of arithmetic
to calculate. If by any human possioility
the accursed system of nineteenth century
finance can be indefinitely maintained they
will go on expanding till even the annual
interest exceeds the whole sum of human
wealth— till the entire value of the earth is
only a drop in the bucket compared to the
accumulated liabilities of sanguinary wars,
and when the sun descends forthelast time on
thelands whichthepresenceof man has cursed
and polluted it will see the human race stiL
toiling to repay the money spent on plunder
and slaughter in the thousands of years gone
by. And for all this ruin there is practically
nothiog to show except the mouldering
bones on a thousand battle fields, the tomb
stones i f the dead, the fading glory of those
who perished in ignoble strife, and the
burden which, ualess repudiated by future
generations, will make man a slave until the
end of time. To the philosopher who con-
templates the extent to which the loan-
mongering tribes have maintained the cause
of Imperialism with all its concomitants of
rapine and murder, it must seem that Hell—
if a Hell there be—is a place where there is
plenty of credit.
* * *
Australia, however, has, so far, escaped
the worst evils of Imperialism, and, though
her debts are accumulating with a rapidity
worthy of the traditions of the Old World,
she has still gained something better in ex-
change for her liabilities than legends
of a bloodstained past, historic fighting-
grounds, and mouldering castles with a
store of thumbscrews, crucifixes, racks,
and implements of slaughter. But so long
as her connection with England continues,
and so long as England is linked to the
system of European policy, the ruin which
is descending upon the Old World casts its
shadow' upon her. For the new continent
there are only two alternatives. Either
Australia must form a peaceful republic, or
else she must, sooner or later, drift in the
train of the mother country into war and
extravaganc?, and hsr sons and daughters
must be content to labour in the ceaseless
effort to pay off the liabilities incurred in
past eras of crime and military assassina
tion. With this danger in view it is reason-
able to ask by what possible right any band
of ephemeral adventure: s can pretend to
load a race yet unborn with the burden of
their own greed, ambition, and madness. A
national responsibility incurred in the con-
struction of valuable public works may, with
some show of justice, be handed down to
posterity along with the results accruing
from the expenditure, but a debt piled up
by a band of bloodthirsty imbeciles in under-
takings similar to that of the famous, or
rather infamous, Soudan Contingent, is only
fit to be repudiated by the sons of those by
whom it was originated. The fruits, such as
they were—the donkey and the goat and the
avalanche of public scorn—were enjoyed ex-
clusively by the filibusters of the day, and
the Australians of the future are under no
moral obligation to honour the promissory-
notes which were drawn upon them by the.r
ancestors in such a cause. Custom, no
doubt, has rendered the discharge of even
such ignoble obligations as these imperative
upon nations, but it would be well for Aus-
tralia if, in the luture, the principle were re-
cognised that no law, international or other-
wise, can require a free people to pay debts
created in bygone ages for other purposes
than public works or actual defence against
invasion. If these colonies lead the way in
laying down the law that each generation
must pay for its own bellicose drunkenness,
the world will owe them a debt of undying
gratitude for having been the first to strike
a blow at the overshadowing upas tree of
public credit.
* * *
So far, fortunately, the demoniac spirit
of finance has invented no means by which
private debts can be rendered eternal. The.
long, slow agony is alleviated by death and
insolvency, and with the abolition of the old
Roman law, by which the bankrupt debtor
became a slave, the grip of Shylock has
been somewhat loosened. The policy which
the civilised Briton substituted for that of
the Latin pagan answered no useful purpose
in bringing back the vanished shekels of the
tribes, and it collapsed in consequence. The
polished barbarian of ancient Italy —a man
of action rather than of theory—harnessed
h's debtor to the plough and sold the debtor’s
daughters in the market-place, and thus did
something towards retrieving the losses he
had sustained, while the Englishman of a
few decades ago consigned his victim to the
Marshalsea, where he was left to drag out
the remaining years of his helpless, aimless
existence in a living death, till all ambition
and energy left him, and he sunk into a pre-
mature old age, the mere moth-eaten sem-
blance of what had once been a human
being. Knowledge and reason have ad-
vanced, however, since these days, or, at all
events, the Christian is a little less obtrusive
in his barbarism, and England has seen the
last of the Marshalsea.
# • •
Yet the true principle of civilised life—
that the State lias no more concern with
what a man owes than with what he eats—is
apparently as far as ever from general recog-
nition. The statute-book is cumbered with
elaborate laws for the recovery of debts,
just as it once wai with laws for the main-
tenance of orthodoxy and for the condign
punishment of citizens who expressed doubts
as to the efli c icy of the toe-nail of a saint in
the case of a consumptive patient, and with
the multiplication of statutes debts multiply
apace. Wherever the machinery for the
enforcement of financial obligations works
most smoothly there the Hemew and the
alleged Christian loan and discount man are
most prominent, and where those cor-
morants gather, deluded toilers are always
tempted to borrow to their own ultimate
ruin. On whatever scale his busi-
ness ii conducted, the money-lender is
always the same convenient and reliable
carse. Tfie great financier, who provides
the sinews of war for a moderate cunsiiera
tion, makes strife possible among nations,
and pails the strings while the military
puppets dance to the tune of slaughter,
while the pettifogging Shylouk spreads
misery over a narrower circle, yet does his
work wish equal effect. But there is one
notable difference between these twin birds
of prey. Through the irony of circumstances
the small operator—the rapacious pawn-
broker, and the 100 per shent man at the
corner—is protected by every means which
the law can devise, while his full-blown rival
is left to the care of Providence. There is
no international bankruptcy courb, for in-
stance, in which the Russian empire can be
sold up when the inevitable day of repudia-
tion arrives. There is no bailiff who can
levy a distress on the French Republic if it
should be compelled to wipe off with a stroke
of the pen its thousand millions of debt, and
except in the miserable land of Egypt,
where public credit is maintained by foreign
bayonets, the national debts of the world
are guaranteed only by the good faith of the
debtors. But the security which is held to
ba good Rr more money than the world can
pay is not regarded as sufficient for the
miserable tradesmen who owes a sum of £2O
or less, and all the terrors of the law are in-
voked to wring from him the last farthing
of his indebtedness.
• * *
The coming age of reason must eventually
sweep away this anomaly. Sooner or later
debt must be regarded as a moral obligation
only, and the good character of the debtor
must become the sole security of the creditor.
Tne principle which applies to nations must
apply also to individuals, and then the
carnivorous fraternity which now preys on
tfie human race will speedily fade away and
disappear. Sooner or later, too, it will be
recognised that death wipes off all scores,
and that neither a nation nor an individual
has power to hand down liabilities to pos-
terity. Already civilisation and common
sense have repudiated the theory that a
criminal responsibility can a.tach to the
senseless clay after the soul has departed,
and alleged j ustice has ceased to dig up the
corpse of the dead sinner, and stick his head
and his mangled limbs on separate spikes for
the world to shudder at. Also, except in a
very few barbarous lands, the crime of the
father is no longer judicially visited on the
children, and even in such countries as China
the words of the poet are fast becoming a
mere satire—
“ Bat in mercy—let his praise be sung—
His thirteen brothers were merely hung,
And his slaves bambooed in the mildest way,
For a calendar month, three times a day.”
Death, which ends eveiything- else, must
cancel all earthly debts, civil and criminal
alike, and the man who lives by winding up
the bankrupt estate of the deceased, until
the widow and orphans are left penniless,
must find some other and more honest occu-
pation. Like the financier and the loan and
discount man he will never be missed.
• * «
For the present, however, New South
Wales, as usual, is advancing backwards
The new Bankruptcy Bill, the financial in-
spiration of Attorney-General W tse, mul-
tiplies, to an incredible degree, the number
of acts which constitute insolvency, and as a
fair sample of its provisions under tais head
may be quoted the following :
“ A debtor commits an act of bankruptcy . .
If wi'h intent to defeat or delay his creditors he
does any of the following things, namely, departs
out of New South Wales, or being out of New
South Wales remains out of New South
Wales, or departs from his dwellirg house, or
otherwise absents himself, or begins to keep
house.”
Half the New South Wales citizens who at-
tend the Melbourne Cup will be bankrupt
under this system. Parkes himself may be
bankrupt when next he visits Adelaide, and
so, probably, will half the members of his
following. And, in addition to this, the Bill
retrogrades towards the old Marshalsea ays-
tern which Bogland shook off with loathing
years ago. The debtor is rendered liable to
imprisonment at the judge's discretion under
a multitude of circumstances, such as
“ avoiding service of a bankruptcy petition,”
“if there is probable ground for believing
that he has concealed or is about to conceal
or destroy any of his goods, or any books,
documents, or writings which might be of
use to his creditors in the course of his bank-
ruptcy,” and also under such far-extending
provisions as “ otherwise avoiding, delaying°
or embarrassing proceedings in bankruptcy
against him.” The brand of the Calico
-Jimmy and the usurer is stamped on the
measure from the first clause to the last, and
thelawis mademore thanever the guardian of
the money-lender, the speculative trader,
and the vast crowd of miscellaneous vultures
who grow rich and corpulent on the mysteries
of finance. And yet it must be evident even
to the narrow comprehension of Mr. Wise
that the class whom he is so anxious to pro-
tect adds nothing to the wealth of the nation.
The producer is the victim on whom they
I batten—for their own part they produce
j naught ; but while no effort is made to pro-
tect the masses from the bloated loafers who
prey upon them, the whole power of the law
is exerted to make the paths of the money-
changer and the shoddy importer secure,
while the gaol door yawns for their unfor
tunate debtors.
* * *
Centuries ago, when the wealth of the
world was less than a tenth of its present
amount, and when finance was not, like
drink, the luxury of the million, mankind
struggled along with a moderate amount of
success on a near approach to a cash basis.
Since then the march of invention and
discovery, the increased output of gold,
and a multitude of other circumstances have
enhanced the riches of the earth to an
incalculable degree, and yet debt, public and
private, has grown faster than prosperity.
And so it will continue to grow until the law
ceases to take cognizance of financial obliga-
tions, and gives up the hopeless endeavour
to foreclose upon an insolvent planet which
its own inhabitants have mortgaged beyond
redemption, Mr. Wise’s frenzied effort to
enforce a squaring-up in one little corner of
a sphere which counts its liabilities by thous-
ands of millions is a fight against the rolling
waves of the Atlantic. When he can build
I a law which will put an end to Parkes’s
| periodical insolvencies, or construct a code
1 which will prevent slippery politicians
from obtaining the money of industrious men
by virtue of their glozing tongues, he may per-
haps be entitled to claim that his cumbrous
measure has done Australia some service.
But if, while providing a gaol for those
who have been ruined, he still fails to bring
the übiquitous and influential debtor within
the reach of the law, it becomes obvious that
he is legislating only on behalf of the vulture,
as so many of his kind have done before him.
The Australian Banking Company.
ITS BALANCE-SHEET FOR SEPTEMBER
30, 1887.
On a previous occasion, to wit the 22nd October,
we ventured to publish some remarks anent the
Australian Banking Company, Sydney. Since
that date an advertisement in the name of the
Company has been inserted in most of the Sydney
papers showing the balance-sheet of the “ Bank ’’
on the 30th September last. This financial state-
ment is, we presume, meant to be a refutation
of The Bulletin article. As such we notice it,
but before doing so would point out that our
article was not directed against the financial posi-
tion of the institution ; we sought rather to show
by a plain statement of facts that the business
transacted was not of a class worthy of the Com-
pany’s title or pretensions, and was not such as
would be likely to confer much honour on the
gentlemen advertised as its directors. This
balance-sheet leaves the gist of our article un-
touched, but that is no reason why we should
allow the figures submitted to pass without com-
ment. It must, however, be (distinctly under-
stood that we do not desire by anything that has
been or may hereafter be written to impugn the
position or to cast doubt upon the safety of this
precious “Bank’s” position. On the contrary,
our every enquiry into the manner in which busi-
ness is condnetad tends to confirm the belief tnat
no serious losses are ever likely to trouble the
shareholders, The “ Bank” is safe enough ; our
only question is as to the position of its borrow-
ing customers. Concerning the balance-sheet
aforesaid we offer the following observations :
1. The “capital subscribed and allotted on the
30ch September was only £38,584, of which
amount but £25,263 has been paid up. Where
then was the necessity for increasing on the 28th
July last the nominal capital from £IOO,OOO to
£500,000 ? So far but a fraction more than 25 per
esnt of the £IOO,OOO nominal capital has been
paid up : why increase this nominal capital to a
figure, £500,000, which would appear to be enor-
mously in excess of present necessities 1 Beyond
the advantage to be gained by misleading ignor-
ant persons as to the position of the “ Bank ” wo
can discover no reason whatever for the change.
2 The asests and liabilities balance one another,
and yet there is nothing to thow how the shares
issued to J. H. Nathan, and perhaps to others, as
paid up, are accounted for on the Cr. side. This
requires some explanation. As we showed by
quotation from the agreement of the 2‘Jth June,
1886, Mr. J. H. N ithan consented to receive
10.000 fully paid up £1 shares in the Australian
Loan Discount and Financial Company as con
sideration for the goodwill of the Australian
Financial Company. The A. L. D. and F. Coy.,
according to the statement of the 28th July when
ic merged in the present Company, made a gross
profit of £2597 during its career. Since the latter
date the Australian Banking Company has r@>


ceived, according to its balance-sheet of 30th
September, gross income of £3379 ; these two
sums are together £s976—more than £4OOO short
of £IO,OOO, so that even if they had been all in-
cluded in the assets the balance-sheet
would still show a balance on the debit
side. And J. H. Nathan was not the only
person entitled to receive paid-up shares. Each
of the directors is entitled under the registered
Articles of Association to 500 fully paid-up shares.
The present directors are stated to be seven in
number—viz,. Messrs. F. Abigail and John
Hurley, Ms. L. A , J. F. Martin, John Yann, J.
H. Nathan, J. Scott, and A. Mathey, and if tiny
have been sensible enough to accept their shares,
this would bring the value of the shares issued
without payment and fully paid-up, to £13,500.
If those allotments have been made, how is it
that the assets of the company equal the liabilities,
seeing that the profits to date have totalled £5976
only, and that no entry for t hese shares appears
among the assets? If these 13,500 fally paid up
shares have really been issued, it Is certain that
the £5976 of profits would not balance them
by £7500, and even if they did, the riddle would
not then be solved, for in the balance-sheet we
are now reviewing the profits made since the 20th
July not having been appropriated to any special
purpose, necessarily appear on the debit side, in-
creasix g by so much the column of liabilities.
Therefore the profits up to the July balance alone
can he set off against these complimentary shares,
and we need not go to the trouble cf demon-
strating the evident fact that £2597 do not
balance £13,500.
3. The commission received is £2711 —we
omit shillings and pence—while the int:rest-
received account is £667. In a former article
we quoted from an advertisement to show
that the loan business was conduc ed “upon a
10 per cent, per annum interest basis, together
with a sliding scale of commission upon each
transaction according to its nature ” From the
relative proportions of the two sources of income
cited, it is posdible to believe that the commission
must have slided pretty considerably in some
instances.
4. The “ Formation expenses, furniture, broker-
age", advertising, &0.,” accounts together totalled
£3558 in the July balance-sheet, from which £SOO
was then written off, leaving a balance of £3058 ;
in the September sheet, “formation expenses,
furniture, &<?.," are stated to have absorbed
£1773. Assuming that these accounts are iden-
tical, it is difficult to see why there should have
been so large an increase as £1715 in less Han
three months. Advertising is expensive, but if
the increase is due to that cause, it is surely
wrong to pass its cost to the fixed account which
represents, among other things, the permanent
furniture cf the “ bank ” To do so is to confuse
cur; ent expenses with investments of the Com-
pany's capital. If it would not be esteemed an
impertinence, we would like to suggest to Mr.
Abigail and his enterprising co-directors that a
profit and loss account in connection with the
“ Bank’s” operations should at once be published
and advertised.
5 Although the amount of commission and in-
terest received is stated, we have hitherto failed
to discover any entry in the balance-sheet show-
ing the amount of interest paid to depositois.
The “Bank” is stated to hold £13,484 on fixed
deposit, and yet no interest is stated es having
been paid to ituch depositors in the interval
between the dates of the two balance-sheets.
6 The inves'ments, bills discounted, overdrafts,
and bills past due—that is all the interest bearing
assets of the “ Bank amount to £31,523 133 Id j
the interest and commission received durirg the
interval between the 20;h July and the Ist Octo-
ber inclusive is stated as £3378 17s. rather
more than 10 per cent ! This is for 73 days ;at
the same ra‘e the “ Bank ” would only clear a
little over 50 per cent per annum on its advances.
7. The dividend account appears to have been
drawn upon to the extent of £474 6i. 6d. only :
can it be that shareholders and depositors have
only claimed so much of the sum of £959 declared
payable to them more than two months ago ?
8. Appended to the advertised balance-sheet
for September 30th there is a certificate by “ H.
Malcolm, maneger A. B. Cos., Limited,” and
dated the 21st ult—the day after our article was
published—to the effect that the “ coin reserve in
hand ” on that date equalled “ 78 per cent, of the
gress liabilities.” Will Mr. Malcolm kindly con-
descend to be mere explicit ? On the 30 h Fep-
t imber the coin in hand is stated to have been
£1054 sj. 2d. ; the liabilities to depositors on the
same date were £13,484—we do not trouble to
quo'e the gross liabilities : by what means was the
proportion of gold coin to depositors changed be-
tween the Ist and 21st October as to raise it from less
than 9to 78 per cent.? It may be that the Aus-
tralian Banking Company has a ooin reserve big
enough to pay the New South Wales d a ficit; if so
the fact should be stated, Silence on such a point
is unfortunately conducive to much public doubt
as to the perfect accuracy of Mr. H. Malcolm's
certificate. ....
From the foregoing it may bo seen that we do not
altogether appreciate the Australian Banking
Company’s method of presenting their accounts
to public criticism. We now call upon Messrp.
Abigail and Burley, the much-advertised Parlia-
mentary members of the directorate, to explain the
accounts and advertised statements of this Bank.
It is a serious matter that a Minister of the Crown
should be connected with an institution which
publishes such balance sheets a 3 the one upon
which we have commented. Upon certain oth*r
other aspects of the advertised connection between
the NS.W. Minister of Mines and this remark-
able institution we may hereafter have a good
deal to say.
At a recent CoDgress of English Trades’ Unions a
resolution was pastel indicating that the growth
of demccratic thought is healthy, as it is rapid.
The Congress expr ssedits “earnest desire that
Parliament should, without delay, effect such
re'orm in, the land laws of Great Britain as will
eventually make the laEd the property of the
nation, and that for the purpose of bringing this
about a land-tax should at once be imposed on all
land, whether occupied or not.” This business-
like resolution, drawn up and carried with ac-
clamation by accredit* d leaders of the working
classes, will advertise the great Land Question in
quarters where such advertisemsnt is most
needed. The rank and file Union men, who have
never studied nor possibly heard of the doctrines
of Henry George, will take an interest in the
doings at CoDgre’S, and thus learn the lesson of
“ Progress and Poverty ” for the first time. Ten
years ago Trades’ Unions dealt with little else
than the individual interests of trades. They
were concerned merely with protecting labour
against capital, so far as ectaal factory or work-
shop expeiiei ca showed the necessity for protec-
tion. But now they are becoming alive, to the
■act that there is poor satisfaction in selling toil
at an advance of price, when rnv su r p!us must be
nevitably swalio ved up by the landowner. Tte
people’s education is progressing favourably.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Blighted by a Bishop.
The proposed New South Wales Women s Indus-
trial Exhibition has been born with the dews of
death upon its pallid brow, and its inevitable col-
lapse will leave a dreary void in the programme
of the Centennial rejoicings. The one and only
original item in the expected disp'ay has virtually
gone under. The Dead-house remains, also the
fireworks, the great drunk, the collection, the
snivelling, the s;eeches, the inebriated politician,
the chronic insolvent, the poetry, and a multi-
tude of other matters which could have been well
dispensed with, but there is nothing new about
any of them. An exhibition cf the \aried pro-
ducts of feminine industry, on the other hand,
would hare possessed an element of novelty, and
if the one intelligent scheme amid a desert of
foolishness had been allowed to stand upon its
own merits it would probably have be t n a
genuine success. But, unluckily, it fell into the
hands of a race of public benefactors whose idea
of serving their country consists in making one
grovel grow where no grovel ever grew before.
As soon as the idea was mooted, Bishop Barry
was appointed chief lady-superintendent and dry-
nurse to the undertaking, and, with his customary
facility for opening his mouth when it would have
been wiser to keep it shut, he stated that the
proceeds were to go to the eternal “Queen’s
Fund,” an institution which, he explained, is in-
tended for the relief of female distress, especially
amongst those who had once held high positions.
Like the Angel of Death, the Bishop spread his
apron and gaiters on the blast and breathed
in the face of the new project as he went by,
and had his breath been the mephitic
breeze from the bottomless pit it could not have
been more fatal What Prelate Barry had to do
with a Woman’s Exhibition at “all it is hard to
imagine. He is not a woman himself for one
thing, and for another in Australia the acquain-
tance of fashionable clerics with the gentle sex is
chiefly confined to the boudoirs of the gilded pork-
butcher’s wife, and the well-dowered daughter of
the gin-mill. Neither he nor the soented darlings
cf his acquaintance know anything worth speak-
ing of about the working women of the community,
and an exhibition of female industry boss ed by a
bishop who is not a female, and by a lot of females
who never worked in the whole course if their
fashionable existence, is a mockery and a laughing-
stock. His amazing facility for laDouring at
things he knows nothing about would qualify
Bishop Barry to take command cf a whaler, and
his blighting presence reduces the show
to the level of a churoh orgie—a display of dolls
and smoking-caps and scent-bottles and em-
broidery, and all the fashionable uselessnees of ex-
istence. And, as if this was not enough, te must
needs throw his amaz'ng candour into the scale to
send the whole undertaking buna in one act. Even
a bishop must know that an exhibition of women’s
industry is an exhibition of the lab tur of the poor,
and yet he was careful to tell his working sisters
that the prcduct of their toil was to go to aid not
themselves, but the seedy, shabby genteel mem-
bers of their sex. It is to be dispensed among
those who had once held high positions, and the
toiler who had never held a high position—who
had never tasted the joys of affluence even for a
moment —who, in her greatest prosperity, had
never probably been half so rich as the reci-
pients of her charity were in their decay—
was to receive—nothing I With a sublime calm-
ness—one-third ignorance, one-third sacerdotal
cheek, and one-tliird “ pre-eminence in grief ”
the Bishop virtually defined the Queen’s Fuad as
an arrangement by which a calculating ret of
rich and parsimonious snobs are to dispense
lordly charity among a refined clientele at the
expense of the poor—by which the decayed female
swell who has come to grief through a want of
cerebral tissue is to receive charity on good, old
English principles, while Bill Smith’s or Tim
Flaherty's wife, whose pennies are cadged to
keep the “ Queen’s Fund ” going, may starve in
the gutter because, forsooth, she had never held a
high position, The Women's Industrial Exhibi-
tion-should it ever come off—is to be merely
another item in a great scheme by which the ricii
beg from the scanty earnings of the labourer, th
slavey, and the badly-paid, over-worked, under
fed shop-girl, and then, when any of these apply
in an hour of need for a share of the charity to
which they have contributed, they will perhap
be told by the lordly committee that the “Queen’s’
Fund is not for such trash as they. The blighting
effects of even one bishop were never more clearly
exemplified than when Barry thus gave away
great and aristocratic project in one sentence
and his words have shown, in a new light, the
appalling thick-headedness of the Church.
+
Pym Parkes.
Now that Attorney-General Wise is pushing on
bill by which people are to be made to pay their
debts even unto the gaol door, he might as wel
look up a certain English precedent which he has
hitherto neglected. Mr. Wise is very fond of
English precedents, and he will, doubtless, be
much obliged to us for reminding bim of this one.
When Pitt— whom Parkes has the cast-iron
cheek to hold up in public, together with Cobden,
Grattan, and Gladstone, as his (Parkes’s]
co-sons of Anak— we were going to say that
when Pitt died insolvent, the British Parliament
voted £40,000 to pay his debts, so that he might
leave a name for honesty behind him. In
Parkes’s case a public subscription is
taking the place of the Parliamentary grant',
but the effect—on Parkes— is exactly the same
in either instance Let the money be applied
then, after the fashion of Fitt s grant, to tbe pay-
ment of the great Hi Ham’s liabilities If it was
worth England's while to make such a sacrifici in
order that Pitt s memory might be solvent, surely
New South Wales mightspread itself a little in order
that Parkes may live upon tbe square. He has
said himself that he doesn’t want to be rich, but
merely to bo honest, and yet his admirers are
doing their level bsst to make him rich, and are
not helping to make him honc3t worth a cent —
honesr, that is, as his own and Attorney-General
Wise s Bankruptcy Bill defines that virtue, and
as they define it at the gaol door, they may be
said to draw the line pretty closely. Is (his the
boasted regard these so-ca’led “friends” have for
their virtuous, eelf-sacr.ticing, patriotic, eloquent,
silver-maned Pym ? When he tells them in burni g
words that he p’aces no value on worldly dro c s,
they straightway force upon him what he
doesn't want, and when he assures them that his
great desire is to pay every man his due, they
will not even take enough out of the fund which
they are raising on his behalf against his own ex-
pressed wish to square with the claims of the
tenants on his North Shore propercy. This is
very sad. The old man asks for bread, which in
his case means peace of mind and a chance to
read “ Shakespeare ’’—and they give him a finan-
cial serpent, which he will put in bis cjot-iail
pocket to steal away his b r ains. But it is not yet
too late to avoid patting this insalt upon him.
According to the poor old man's own words,
“ procuresses of innocent women for the basest
purposes often pay 20s. in the £.” Therefore, let
his friends make an effort and lift him to the level
of the solvent bawd in this respect—the parallel,
mind you, is PARKES-made, not BuLLETiN-made—
and when they have got him to this pinnacle, let
them see if they can’t keep him there. Also, let
them buy h'm a new edition of “ Shakespeare,”
and not act as it they took Parkes for a liar, by
forcing money upon him when he has already
declared that he places no value on any such
commodity.
4.
Botany Bay Civilisation.
Here is an extract cut from the Sydney Morning
Herald’s Parliamentary report of Wednesday
last;
“ Mr Haynes asked the Minister of Justice whether one
of the Judges, iu dealing with the case of a prisoner recently
convicted of a certain offence, had advised the Government
that the prisoner should Oe requested to submit to a certain
mutilation of his body, and if so, who was the Judge, and
what course did the Government propose to take in the
matter?
11 Mr. Wise said aDy communication addressed by any of
the Judges to the Executive was, and must be always con-
sidered strictly confidential, and therefore it would be ob-
viously impossible for him to reply to the question. 1 '
Why the recommendations made by the Judges
to the Executive in regard to convicted prisoners
Bhould be held as confidential any more than the
evidence given at the trial is a mystery. At-
torney-General Wise's assumption that the
Judge’s communications to the Executive, which,
as we have often seen, are in New South Wales
far more potent in matters of life or death than
the deliberately-framed recommendations of
juriei, should be treated as of unchallengeable
inviolability even so far as Parliament itself is
concerned, is an outrage on the principle of giving
a prisoner a fair trial in open court Nothing
should ever be done in the name of
Justice which cannot be done in the
full glare of the noonday sun. The Judge is a
mere servant of the public, after all ; his decisions
and comments, if fair and sound, rest upon a basis
of equily and logic, and he should bs prepared to
maintain them by fact and argument addressed to
Parliament and the community at large—this the
more especially in cases where, the lives and
liberty of citizens being involved, there can, after
atime.be no effective appeal. It is high time
that that old-world judicial arrogance which was
imported to Botany Bay as part and parcel of the
ancient idea about the Divine right of kings and
tin infallibility of officials were Anally blasted
out of existence with many another hoary sham
With respect to the hideoos but pointed and justi-
fiable question of Mr. Haynes, will Mr. Wise dare
to stand up in a Democrat ic country and deny that
it is absolutely necessary for the people to know
whether or not there sits upon the bench of one or
other of the c a ief cour ts of law a savage who cover tly
seeks to take part in adding a mutilation clause to
the mountain of unparalleled brutality contained
within the four corners of the criminal law of the
bloodstained convict) colony of Botany Bay ?—for
New South Wales will and should be kuown all over
the ears has Botany Bay while it punishes with
death six or seven times as many offences as are
punishable with death in England or America and
a dozen times as many as are so punishable in
France, or Germany, or Russia.
♦
The Two Parkes.
1. Tiie Sham Parkes.
2 The Real Parkes.
1. The Sham Parkes,
He :s the creature of the Sydney dally Press,
especially the D.T. He is a grand old man, whose
silver hairs are the emblems of a magnificent
vi.tue—a statesman of Gladstonian proportions
and Cice onian genius. He is a combination of
Bismarck, Napoleon, Cobden, and Puxsford—
a vir.le septuagenarian whose inspired energyis in
inverse ratio to his increasing years. But he is
more than ihis. He is a noble patriot who has
spent his years and his means alike in promotiog
the public good. A statesman who has been so
constantly devoted to the public service as to
have omitted to provide for his own frugal re-
quirements. The author and originator of t he N. S. W.
Public Instruction Act, his labours in connection
with that measure have wrought havoc with his
own affairs ; the leader of the once great colonial
Freetrade party, his devotion to that cause has
prevented him from providing the bread necessary
to the sustenance of his own family. Premier for
ten years, receiving, as dear, good, truthful
Bishop Barry says, “ les3 than nothing for his
services,” he has become the most powerful and
yet the poorest man in the community which he
has done so much to ad vanoe. His noble soul
has spurned the corrupt gains which his office, if
he had been so minded, night have brought; he
has been for many long years a Premier
and a representative of the people, but
has never, no, never, obta'ned aught save per-
sonal loss from the fact of his achieving
so lofty a station. Pope of the Freetrade party,
he has appropriated to himself a portion of the
apparently irredeemable deficit which oppresses
the State and the Freetrade Association under a
Freetrade regime. He has put millions into the
pockets of the “Calico Jimmies,” but has reserved
nothing but dishonoured promissory-notes en-
dorsed by other members for his own capacious
and holey pouch. The political way has been
long, the wind of insolvency is cold, the Free-
trade minstrel is infirm and old ; he lacks funds
to supply those frugal wants which his own de-
votedness has left without means of satisfaction,
therefore the hat-holders of the daily Press ask
that the guerdons of the generous may reward
their sham Parkes,
2. The Real Parkes.
He is a man to whom the Insolvent Court has
been a place of periodical resort. A politician
who now for the thi d time is obliged to surrender
a very small estate to a huge army of credi-
tors. A rash and reckless financier who seeks,
and has previously sought, in insolvency, a refuge
from the just consequences of his own incaution,
thoughtlessness and incapacity in monetary
transactions A speculator who borrowed money
from his political friends in order to go into
ri;ky ventures, and allowed the resulting lo3s to
fall upon the men and colleagues who were foolish
enough to lend him the necessary dollars. His
debts are not, and in his previous insolven-
cies were not, unpaid hatchers’ and bakers
bills ; they a*e the monuments of wild im-
provident speculations, undertaken by aid of
loans granted by acquaintances, .some of
whom had the good fortune to be fellow-
members, colleagues, or Legislative C mncil nomi-
nees The frugal though neglectful Parkes de
picted by the D.T. is not discernible in that
terrible £05,000 list of liabilities. In that list the
real Parkes is shown ; the Parkes who gambled
rashly with the money of his creditors and found
tbe facts of finance fatal to his carelessly con
struc.td s hsme-j. If ih so scbcmts had bdeu
suocessful, his ob iging friends would, or at least
might, have been paid, and Parkes would have
pocketed the profits ; but they failed, therefore
the lenders must lose, and Parkes, thanks to his
surrender, will be saved from the necessity of
paying 20s, in the £. But what has the Real
Parkes got in return for his long-continued ser-
vices to the State ? He has received £20,000 for
his ten years’ occupancy of the Premiership
this, by the way, is Bishop Washington Barry’s
clerical idea of less than nothing—and he has
cured the lucrative goodwill of many politicia
No one will be mad enough to assert that Mess
Sutherland, Abigail, Roberts, Clarke, anc.
Wigram Allen, would have lent such sums
equally slender security ; they lent their nam
and their gold to Parkes, the Premier, not no
Parkes the thrice-disgraced insolvent Anyo
who disputes this may be convinced to the co
trary by applying now to any of the Miniate
named for a loan of £2OO or so. Yet these sum
seem to have been readily advanced ;o
Parkes ; not, we would point out, fro
any corrupt motive, but simply because th
fame Sir Henry Parkes had won as a politicia
was sufficient to out-weigh his long-past anc
twice-repeated financial disgrace. But the sha
Parkes is said to have been the author ant
originator of the Public Instruction Act. Wha;
is the history of that measure ? Simply this, tha i
the real Parkes opposed it vehemently until h
found that the majority had deserted him, anc
then, in customary fashion, he cribbed a bill anc
passed it into law despite the consistent opposi -
tion of the party which he had once led, bu
treacherously deserted as soon as it was neces
sary to his own personal repute to do so. But : t
is further said that his white hairs and man
years furnish eloquent argument to encourage
national generosity. Against these mute advo
cates there is the testimony which those year
have left cn record. From his first appearanc
in public life to the present day, the reoords o: 1
successive years have at least been consistent
consistent in proving his cowardly and shamefu
tendency to the Insolvent Court; consistent i
proving the recklessness with which he involve
his friends, colleagues, politicians generally, anc
persons financially interested in politics, in th
disaster which his mania for mad spoculatio
is constantly bringing upon himself. This is th
real Parkes— a periodical insolvent, a wild anc
foolish speculator ; a careless trespasser upon th
generosity of his friends and colleagues ;
Minister who, having received as salary mor
than double the amount ever paid to any othe
Minister of New South Wales, i) yet con
stantly forced to raise the barrier of in
solvency against the unfortunate creditors vhom
he has misled and deluded. What excus
can there be for an appeal to the public o
account of such a man ? His record as a citiae
is commercially disgraceful, and for his ten years
of office he has been .paid £20,000 ; as a Ministe
the country has paid him, as a citizen he has
failed to pay his creditors. It is not the tim
devoted to the State, but the time devoted to his
private business that has caused his fioancia
ruin ; had he teen restrained from asinine specu
lation with borrowed money his finances woulc
have been in a satisfactory state to day. It is no ;
to a Self-sacrificing patriot, but to an unlucky ant
reckless financier that people are now required t
subscribe. Politicians formerly have been in
duced to find the capital necessary to his wil
ventures ; I he present appeal merely carries th
process one step further by inducing electors to
find the cash required for his colossal operations
“ Heads I win, tails you lose,” is the plan of th
Real Parkes every time.
♦
The Circular Quay Mystery.
Parkes, the apostle of good government, th
simple-minded old insolvent, whose white man
and silver beard make him look like an ange
replete with grace, has again got ahead of his op
ponents, and left the Constitution Act far behind
A few weeks ago it was announced that the New
South Wales Government were about to pay a
certain person (an ardent supporter of theirs, by
the-way) £29,000 for a piece of land at Circular
Quay, Sydney, which was valued by seemingly in
dependent authorities at from £4OOO to £7OOO.
The reason as;igned was that more wharfage ac
commodation was required in the great Freetrade
port, though how the circumstance of ore of
Parkes’ supporters receiving just about five
times as much for his wharfage as, according to
all accounts, it was woit”, would in any way in-
cease the aggregate wharfage of the city was
never arrived at. To a'l intents and purposes
the land might as reasonably have been bought
on account of the Irish troubles, or the escape of
Ayoub Kuan or the rabbit-question, or for fear
the Kaiser of Germany was going to die, or be-
cause the Kmperor of China ate a stewed kitten, as
for the reason stated, and the purpose would have
been served quite as effectively. Naturally
enough, however, the Assembly objected, and a
committee was appointed, on which Abigail, a
member of the Government, took a seat to decide
whether the Ministry or any of their suppoiters
had been concerned in a gross job, and about
seven more of Parkes’ followers sat to resolve
whether their master or any of his friends had
been guilty of corruption, and generally whether
the purchase should be completed. But while the
evidence was being taken the Parkes Govern-
ment blandly paid over the money without waiting
the approval of the House, and the committee and
the House may depart together into Tophet. By
an old-established fiction, the Assembly is sup-
posed to control the fioanc33 of the country, but
the agility of the great Hi Ham kesps him for
ahead of that slow-moving body. Ol coarse n
the present instance his conduct could
not possibly have been influenced in any
way by tne fear that the board of in-
quiry (three-fourths of which consisted of his own
mo3t slavish and servile adherents) would be com-
pelled to denounce the whole project as a fraud
upon the revenue, nor—the bargain having
already been agreed upon—was his celerity owing
to any apprehension on the part of his friends that
unless their raid upon the Treasury was made in
haste they would lose for good and all
a golden opportunity of leaving thB public
money-chest in >.h9 mud. Ic was only
Parkes s accustomed velocity in pa; iig
away other people’s money, as distinguished f cm
hi 3 mitigated rapidity in finding coin fo- his own
creditors, that caused the colony to he “ bested ”
to the extent of the greater part of £29.000, and
the era of “honest” Government will no v pro-
ceed as before.
+
A “ Sense of Honour ”
A British Tory's “sense of honour” seems to be
a delicate blossom, as the case of Colonel Hughfs-
Hallett, a member of th 9 British House i f
Commons, recently di-minstrated Also, the
“sense of honour” which guides a Tory newr-
paper is a tender atd refined eentiment. as il e
published comments tn that queer s nry have
sufficiently proved Colonel Hughes Hallett is
a consiierably-married Conservative wicn a large
number of direct and, indirt ct t oacendanls. Many


years ago the late Justice Selwyn married and
had a family, after which his wife died and he
married again and another family resulted, and
ultimately he himself passed away and his widow
bestowed herself, her fortune, and the two
families on Colonel Hughes-Hallett. In her
new home she had another family, and then sho
also died and left her money and all her descen-
dants to the Colonel’s fostering care. That gal-
lant officer shortly afterwards married another
lady with money, and, we believe, had yet one
more family. Apparently he lived on good terms
with all the numerous offspring, but it was only
when he seduced one of them and borrowed
£5OOO of her money that public attention was
directed to the patriarchal tribe of which he was
the head. As the Tory press carefully points out,
the young lady, being a member of Justice
Selwkn’s first family, was in no way related to
her seducer, and it complains bitterly that a
slight has been cast on Colonel Hallett’s
“honour" by the assertion that he ruined his
step-daughter, whereas he wouldn’t do such a
thing on any account —what he did was merely to
wreck the good name of his first wife's step-
daughter by a former marriage. Furthermore,
the London- Evening News, a prominent organ
of Toryism, dilates upon the fact that the
Conservative legislator did his utmost to “ afford
the uiual satisfaction afforded by a gentleman ”
—in other words, he offered to murder the brother
of his victim, and also expressed his willingness to
deseithis home and elope with the girl he had
disgraced, on condition that his wife procured a
divorce and left him free to marry a third time.
“ This arrangement,” it is stated, “ Colonel
Hughes-Hallett felt himself bound in honour to
propose." He has not, however, felt himself
bound, so far, to resign his seat in Parliament,
and his vote is still a component part of the ag-
gregate wisdom and godliness by which tte British
Empire is governed. His apologists of the Press,
too, still allude to him as a “gentleman ” ; nobody
has cowhided him; his gracious Queen still en-
dures his presence in the British army! even Par-
liament has not cast him out as something too
loathsome for endurance, and altogether he seems
to be having a good time. The British Tory of
the present day is fearfully and wonderfully
made. ‘ ‘ I’ll make you every reparation that a
gentleman can possibly demand,” says he. “ Of
course I’ve seduced your sister, but then, you
know, I’ve returned her money. Further, I’m
ready to fight you, and to divorce my wife, and
to run away with your sister now that I’ve ruined
her. Now, isn’t that a fair thing, weally, dont-
chewknow ? "
♦
Loud Cranbrook and his pa, Salisbury, are
evidently getting riled when cabled items like the
following find their way into the Australian daily
papers
Viscount (Jranbbook, referring to Mr. Gladstone’s
Irish speeches, says that it is the first time in the history of
the British nation that a leading politician has connived at
outrage and crime.
This is monotonous. Why don’t Cranbrook and
his pa put old Gladstone into gaol iust as they
put the comparatively obscure Mr. Wilfred
Blunt, for saying about one-twentieth part of
what the Grand Old Man says every day ? Why
don't they lock him up as they would lock up
William O'Brien if he made one-hundredth part
of Gladstone’s, row? If Gladstone talks
treason in England it is as bad as Blunt doing
the same thing in Ireland — a million times worse,
in fact, for Gladstone talks in throe kingdoms—
talks all over the earth at once. If he calls
Salisbury a Tory imbecile at Edinburgh the fact
appears in every paper in Great Britain and Ire-
land next morning, and consequently it is a
hundred times more necessary to lock him up 1 lian
it is to Upk up poor Wilfred Blunt. To cage
up Blunt and let Old Man Gladstone go raging
round saying things is like saving at the spigot
and wasting at the bunghole. Therefore, why do
Cr'anbrook and his pa keep on yapping at a safe
distance instead of collaring their enemy for high
treason and chaining him np in a dungeon ? The
answer, of course, is that you mustn’t put a man
into gaol for a political offence unless he happens
to be weak and you happen to be strong. The
fact that Gladstone hasn’t been put in gaol
simply proves that Salisbury is weak, and that
Salisbury knows it.
+
“The better class of unemployed workmen in
London declare that they have no sympathy with
those who have taken part in the recent demon-
strations.” This is one of the line old crusted Tory
tarradiddles which the Argus professes to have
received from its London correspondent by wire.
Whe 1 her the lie was really cabled or partially con-
cocted doesn’t much matter. It suits the squattahs,
the merchants in “ the Lane," and the Civil Service
clerks for whom it was written. They read it to
one another in the train, and say, “ Certainly, just
as I expected—row made by a few demmed
loafers. All the better class men, yerknow,
understand they must suffer privations
occasionally, yerknow. Duty to society, and
all that sort of thing, of course—ought
to shoot the other fellows down, by Jove 1
Lazy devils, yerknow—never did a hard day’s
work in their lives. Ah, did you see that splendid
leader in yesterday’s Argus, showing that England
never was so prosperous as she is at the present
moment? Read it, sir.” And so, on until the
train pulls up at the Melbourne terminus. Then
thB squattahs loaf off to Scott’s or Menzies’,
The commercial lights form themselves into gesti-
culating cliques and have “just one” before pro-
ceeding to earn their daily bread by the sweat of
other brows. The Government olerks stroll up to
the Treasury buildings, wondering why any fellar
should make a demonstration because he’s unem-
ployed. So long as he gets his salary, donchersee,
a fellar ought to be satisfied.
♦
Melbourne University Council, as might have
been expected, are arching their ancient backs
and spitting feebly at the sweet girl sawbonesep.
Those dear little creatures have enforced their
claim to be admitted to the medical course, and
now the Council, instead of making going easy,
would like to fix up obstacles which frisky fillies
might possibly decline to negotiate. They want
to make lady students “shy” at the prospect of
attending lectures, together with young men, on
subjects not ordinarily discussed between the
sexes at picnics or lawn-tennis festivals. This
nastily conceived objection can be so easily over-
come—by a system of condensing delicate points
into one or two discourses and delivering them a
second time “for ladies only”—that the Council
have discovered a greater. It is suggested that
outdoor hospital patients might protest “against
the presence of female students as well as male.”
The University Council and the Faculty of Medi-
cine recently conferred together, with the thinly-
veiled purpose of bringing the sex to grief at one
or other of these obstacles. The former, as
already pointed out, can be overcome until such
time as lady students are sufficiently numerous to
make it no tax upon their modesty to attend
mixed lectures. The second is bogus altogether.
At no very distant date the female portion
of hospital patients will object to male students
being present when a doctores3 is putting their
cases through. Yes, and at no distant date
women professors will lecture to women students,
women surgeons will dissect women’s bodies, and
women’s hospitals will be more free from the
presence of that animal man than the best-con-
ducted hospital as ever was. We cannot expect
any University Council—stupefied by classic lore —
to observe the signs of the times and understand
that the modern “ladies’ doctor” must shortly
hand over his patients to a rival in petticoats or a
divided skirt. But the faculty have their eyes
open to all the wonders which shall be. And they
are wise in their generation thus to wage war
against the first half-dozen girl students on deli-
cate grounds. One can excuse them for using
ridicule as a weapon, and making mock merriment
over a learned Professor’s assertion that the afore
said young ladies are “ half men.” But it may bo
urged with equal reason that the gentlemen who
share the duties of monthly nurses are half
women—and precious indelicate women at that.
The softer sex has too long been “soft"about
medical matters. Let our sisters, our cousins,
and our aunts now enjoy their one great right—
the right of prescribing for ailments they can best
understand, and getting paid for their trouble.
foME 44 of the Chinese residents in Victoria have
been writing to the Argus convicting Duncan
Gillies of a fib, and the Argus publishes the
letter (without any crushing footnote), not because
it suspects D.G. but because it loves the Chow,
as he P cheap, But O ! Kong Meng, Ciieok
Hong Cheong, and the forty-two etceteras, Dun-
can’s fibbing has but little to do with the ques-
tion. Against you, who are civilized, we
have little to say, but if your compatriots
are content with the wages of slaves, and
practise the habits of slaves, then both by their
unfair competition and by the example of their
slavish vices on those whom that slavish competi-
tion drags down to a slavish level, they make our
own countrymen slaves, and if a fine of ten
pounds is excessive for that crime, what is
human liberty worth 2
CORRESPONDENCE
‘Justitia’: He had his reply to M'Mlhone
printed at the Government Printing Office. If his object
was to present the matter fairly to the public, why did he
not have M'Elhone's speech also published?....‘ A. Apsey ’;
The Bulletin doesn’t believe, and it has never said, that
Protection will abolish poverty, any more than it has ever
said that Freetrade inevitably ruins every country. Protec-
tion is only an expedient. Nationalise the land, and The
Bulletin will be Freetrade—but where are the land-na-
tionalisers to be found among the Freetrade and land-
monopolist party ? If you read Henry George's “Freetrade
and Protection ” you will see that he evidently prefers right-
out Protection to a revenue-tariff. So do we, and that’s
what we are going f0r....' Little Heathen’: Please call, and
explain that joke....‘E. Masson’: Yes, there have beer
many cases. Cardinal Manning is a widower. He married
in 1830....‘H0ni’: Thanks. Will consider....‘A. E. G.’:
You are much too solicitous about our welfare....
‘ F,.M ’: Then why doesn’t Salisbury, if Gladstone's speeches
on the Irith question are criminal, put Gladstone into gaol ?
An act which is criminal in Ireland is criminal also in Eng-
land, and Gladstone’s criminality is added to and not de-
tracted from by his position cs a leader of the people
‘ A.H. J.’ (Cooma) : Yes, we do admit that Parkes is like
Gladstone. They are both alive, which is the only solitary
attribute that they have in common ' Cattel ’ (New Nor-
folk) : Generally in the case of a small horse it is best to
feed it on anything that comes hardy, sometimes rather
more than otherwise. It depends a good deal on the nature
of the animal, especially at times. There is as much dif-
ference in s-me horses as anybody, but by following this
system we have trained a i mall horse so that he would do
six miles in an hour without stopping to get his second wind.
Better send dimensions of beast ..‘ Barwon Biver’: G00d...
‘ J.M.’(Balnraio): In E. News, 24th Oct., it was admitted
in so many words that in reference to the M'Nainara case
“ Onc-half of the Premier's plea has broken down." To any-
body but the editor of the E.N. it would appear that the
other half was already at the bottom for it to fall soft on
‘George Don.’: Thanks! ‘Civil Servant’: For future con-
sideration ‘Nimrod’: It is a matter of absolute unim-
portance what you believe in as long as the belief makes you
happy. While the world lasts there will be weak-minded
people who cannot do good—or evil—on their own account.
‘ES.’: Your chunky epic—“ A Drunkard’s Sober Mo-
ments ”—is rather dry. Send us something you’ve written
in your “Drunken" moments.... 1 Honi ’: You are not
logical. If you excuse the European aristocrat you must
excuse his Australian copy. You say “ blood will tell,” but
you forget that even the thickest and richest sang aaul has to
be mixed in a very ordinary earthen vessel at some time or
other. Again it implies a contempt for labour to say of a
wealthy but vulgar woman, “Oh! she was only a washer-
woman!’’ If it is right for the duchess to swagger, it is right
for the washerwoman. If it is wrong for the latter, it is wrong
also for the ducheES ‘ H.J.S.’ (Hobart): Clever, but too
broad ..‘Michael Gilhooley' (Melb): No Owls' advt
‘W.W.A.’: In other words, a slippery colonial Irishman
seeks to make political capital out of his religious apostacy.,
‘ Boodgerie’: Yes, he still holds the office.C.C.’: “L.L.’ 1
stands for Lord-Lieutenant—' A J.’: The coarsest nature
may cherish a secret sentiment. Probably the fiercest
human tiger of all has somewhere or other a hidden bone or
two... .‘B.A.’: Why shouldn't members who have served
seven years without fee or reward get free railway passes?
The present N.S.W. Assembly has affirmed the principle of
payment of members and if that principle is good now it
was good seven years ago. Is there to be no gratitude in
politics? ‘F. Oril’ (Barcoo, Q.): Many thanks for extract..
‘ Perdita': Quite true. Just as there are often, among the
sworn twelve, thieves guiltier than hi n they try, so many an
outwardly faithful wife who sneers at her outcast sister is a
thousand times a more depraved abandonee. .. .* G.
Baker’: Well, suppose that women did as you say, a vote to
the woman who simply voted at her husband's bidding
would be plural voting, and a vote to the woman who op-
posed her husband merely to spite him wou'd simply be
negativing his vote. It won’t work either way ‘P. D.
Stirling’! Received ‘ Yorkshireman’: Of course all such
national distinctions are unjust. They are simply individual
examples applied universally. It is customary to consider
Scotchmen mean, though no doubt it is anything but a fair
assumption. Even we—and we confess we are ashamed of
it—share the notion of Caledonian stinginess, and simply
because a relative of ours—a rather English sort of charac-
ter —used to give us periodical half-crowns until he marrie I
a Scotch girl, since which time, no more half-crowns. Il-
logical, perhaps, Dut still it is a case of the individual ex-
ample and the universal application ‘ C.J.S.’: Will
enquire ...‘Femme Couverte': To re-discuss this well-
worn question would be idle and merely provocative of re-
ligious rancour—‘lnquisitive D.’: We don’t whether he
got the £6OO. Anyhow, the average mother would sell all
her property to save her son’s life under such circumstances.
And we presume that the average clergyman wouldn't re-
fuse £6OO offered to his church under any circumstances
'An Oneducated Man ’: You might send us your address
~..' P.’ (Marrickville): Good suggestion.
BRIEF MENTION.
Thlrstday—-Sunday.
“Poor, friendless, and all-loan !”
Sewage generis—The Evening News.
(John) “Young’s Night Thoughts.”—
Knighthood,
The Chinese must go- the leper must
chang a his spots.
Halloran is odeing Parkes. Parke s is
oweding the public.
Queen Victoria has a complete upper and
lower set of false teeth.
History repeats itself. Gillies is Vic-
toria’s fancy. John Brown was a gillie.
Federation must come. Why not start
with a common hangman for all the colonies ?
“ Appearances are certainly against you,”
as the thief said sotto voce of Mr. Justics .
Bishop Barry says that “ God Save the
Qusen” is a prayer. No doubt. The lord’s
prayer.
In Sydney last year there was not one
conviction for selling adulterated liquors. Rum,
isn’t it ?
The Chlnkies export their dead to Leper
Land. Thus they rob Australia even of its bone-
manure.
Last week in Adelaide a threatened rise
in the price of milk was happily averted by a
timely shower of rain.
Mud J. Haynes says he is in the “saw-
dust arena ” when lecturing. How some men do
give themselves away 1
One Tuck Wing, a Chinaman, has been
found hanged to a tree at Emmavllle (Q.). Soul
also tuck wing. Where 1
Judge Mein, of Queensland, allows wit-
nesses to sit. Quite right. A perjurer can do it
much easier seated on a chair.
The Melbourne Coroner’s song: “ Then
Youl Remember Me.” The Sydney Coroner’s
song : “ Then Shlel Remember Me.”
In an Adelaide suburb a man called his
residence “ The Retreat.” A pawnbroker who
lived opposite named his place “ The Advance."
A Ballarat footballer died the other day
from sunstroke. Great regret was expressed that
he didn't live to be kicked to death in the ordinary
way.
Nearly all the monarchs of Europe are
suffering jusb now from rheumatism. This comes
of sitting on thrones that are not properly
drained.
Undertaker Melville, M.L.A., has been
elected President of the Sydney Anti-Chinese
League. This is ominous, and looks like real
business.
Hon. Tom Garrett remarks that the
Partes-Garrett Ministry is composed of hard-
working men. We notice that Tom omits the
“ honest.”
Pacific Island savages are far ahead of the
N.S.W. people. According to “ The Vagabond,”
“water-frontages are jealously guarded in the
South Seas.”
The Victorian Government have pro-
claimed the whole year as a close reason for the
lyre bird. This will not affect the Melbourne
Herald man.
Sydney Echo patriotically asks : —“ Why
should not a bishop be chosen from the ranks of
the colonial clergy ? ” Because (hey eat too much
meat, dontcherknow.
The editor of the Orange Liberal (N.S.W.)
headed an article “ Sir Blank Blank’s Embarrass-
ment.” The intelligent compositor was in good
form, however, and made it read “Sir Blank
Blank’s Embezzlement.”
Candour is a virtue. A witness at Camp-
bellt own (N S.W.) District Court was informed by
the Judge that he would not be required for
a while. “ Right you are,” he replied, “ I’ll be
over at the pub.” And he was.
A bill has been introduced into the N.Z.
Parliament to abolish all distinctions between the
Earopeana and Maoris N.S.W. ought to follow
suit, and sink all differences between the gentle
blackfellow and the escaped denominational
savage.
Two milkmen were summoned at Bilston
(England), under an Act of Charles 11, for selling
milk after 9am. on Sunday. Evidently Divine
Providence made a mistake in not consulting the
Second Charles with a view to keeping milk fresh
for at least two days.
At Tamworth (N.S.W.) Court. Witness :
“I won’t swear I did not take my coat off.”
Lawyer : “ Will you swear you never took your
waistcoat off?” “Yes, I swear I never took off
my waistcoat.” Lawyer : “ Come now, sir ; how
is it you can swear to one and not to the other ?”
Witness : “ Because I never wear a waistcoat.”
lb has at last been discovered that acci-
dents by fire are not caused by mean-minded rats
striking matches on their trouser-legs and then
poking them into piles of kerosene-saturated
shavings, after all. The damage is really caused
by a £20,000 policy of insurance rubbing against a
store-stock of £5OO value.
The Case of William Roy.
The following is a list of the names and amounts
subscribed by the peoile of Cobar to William
Boy's Fund, collected by “ King Sandy” :
Edward M’Namay, Club H. Hotel, sa. ; E. G. Thompson,
55.; Mr. Brook, 5s H.M., 2s. ; Mr. Hardwick, chemist
sj. ; A. M'Donald, Star Hotel, 2s. 6cl. ; John Lefoe, Vic-
toria Hotel, 2s. 6d. ; Ned Freeman, Club H. Hotel, ss. :
Mr. O Neill, Commercial, ss. ; Tim Budd, ss. ; Mr. Griffin,
55.; R. Kinkead, 2s 6d.; Joseph Wright, Cobar Hotel, 2s 6d ;
F. Foy, Esq., 2s. ; Mr. Frisco, 2s ; Mr. Yeatman, 2s. 6d. ;
Mr. Knight, 2s. ; Mr. MTntire, 2s. 6d. ; Jordan and Duffy,
storekeepers, &c., 7s. ; D. Maher, 2s ; Mr. Combullock, 2s ;
Mr. M'Main, tailor, 2s : Mr. HaDsen, 2s. ; Thundah, ss. •
Thcs. Rowe (Cobb and Co.), 2s. 6d. ; J Eddes, 2s. ; S E.
Collow, Esq., Bulletin agent, 2s. 6d. ; J. Day, 2s. ;
Richard Palmer, late S.D.M., 2s. ; some shearers and staticn
hands in town, 10s. 6d.
According to Shepherd Jefferis, “The
majority of our legislators have no real knowledge
either of the law or of the Gospel.” The good
shepherd of Pitt street ought to be aware by now
that most parsons know a great deal more about
the law than they do about the Gospel. Very few
of the clergy who own bank-shares and fat banking
accounts know the passage about “ feeding my
sheep ” or “ selling all thou hast and giving to the
poor,” but nary a pulpit-puncher will bite when
anyone tries go trade off Sunny Corner scrip on
him at £lO a share or Broken Hills at £lOOO each,
The Referee
When in the dark and doubtful future
people talk of the Melbourne Derby of 1887, some-
one will always chip in with an assertion that
Niagara or Tranter must have won but for col-
liding at a critical moment. Of the two unfor-
tunates Niagara deserves most sympathy, as it
was none of his fault that the scrimmage occurred
at all, and he succeeded in getting within a length
of the winner, anyhow. Tranter only suffered for
his own sins, the horse having made a half-at-
tempt to bolt early in the race, in addition to
stumbling at the last turn. That both the half-
brothers to Trenton (on sire and dam’s side, re-
spectively) were likely victors up to this point is
certain, and were the Derby run over again, the
chances are that Abercorn, and even the Peer,
would finish behind them. But before this ap-
pears in print the Cup may show how much the
inevitable “if” is worth serious consideration.
* * *
Niagara’s running at Flemington affords
one more proof of the folly of assuming that a
horse is necessarily “ thrown back ” by a few
days’ rest. Judging from appearances and results
Niagara had absolutely benefited by bsing con-
fined to his stable with a sprained shoulder. He
looked blooming, and showed a paper improve-
ment of seven pounds on his last running with
Abercorn.
* *
The ceremony of investing Australian Peer
with the Derby blue rlbbin fetched very ’ittle
enthusiasm. Starting at six to one—third f v iu--
ite— Mr Gannon’s colt was in no sense at pair
winner, and even his immediate party v re
shaken in their confidence after the Melbourne
Stakes running had discounted the merit of the
Peer’s recent victory over Trident.
* * *
The Melbourne Cup tips have gone where
the tipsters themselves will go one of these days
if they do not reform, and the backer, the plunger,
the Juggins, and the rest of that tribe are mostly
left. The winner, Dunlop, started at 20 to 1;
Silvermlne, who came in a length behind the
winner, was quoted at If to 1 ; and the heavily-
backed Australian Peer, with his 6 to 1, was third.
The favourite, Algerian, who carried his
weight in gold, was nowhere, and the book-
makers skinned the lamb ia 3min. 284ssc.
Algerian and Silver Prince led at the start,
but presently the latter took the lead with Thun-
derbolt, Tranter, and .Algerian close behind.
Round the bend the race was tremendous, and
when the stone wall was reached Silver Prince
still led, with Algerian second. A little later
Algerian was first, and some of the Jugginses
seemed to have a good show for their money, but
at the distance-post, he began to collapse, and was
passed successively by Dunlop, Silvermine, and
the Australian Peer. The great favourite never
got near them again, and they came in in the
order stated, ono length apart.
* * *
Of the ladies at Melbourne Derby, perhaps
the finest figured and most exquisitely dres-ed
was Miss Myra Kemble (Mr 3. White), of Sydney,
whose dress of dove grey cashmere and mervcil-
leux with a vest of the latter, ard her bead sur-
mounted by the quaintest and prettiest grey
“ Dorothy ” hat, presented a vision calculated to
raise womanly envy to high-water mark.
* * *
At Starting prices backers were laying
three to one on Abercorn and Tranter, ooupled
for the V.R.C. Derby. The “books ’’were able
to get round, as nearly as possible, on the first four
favourites.
The great feature of Double Bay regatta
last Saturday was the workmanlike style in which
Nelson won the All comers’ Race with the stag-
gering impost of 551bs. H Messenger (lolbs.) was
runner-up.
* * *
It is cabled that Teemer has defeated
Gaudaur for the American championship. Teemer
now goes to England to tackle Bubear, and should
not have much trouble in annexing the Thames
championship. Ho will be here in a few months.
* * *
Poor old Billy Farnan made no show at
all against Slavin at the Melbourne tlexandra on
Saturday night. The South Melbourne veteran
got in his right once or twice, but there was no
powder In the blow to speak of. His day is over.
* * *
If they keep to their alleged statements,
the race on the Nepean between the champion
and ex-champion scullers is likely to be the last
contest either man will row. Beach says he will
retire, win or lose, unless he be left behind by an
accident, and Hanlan has given forth that, if again
beaten, he will acknowledge the corn, and give
up sculling. Peter Kemp will then be the best
man this side of the line.
* * *
Murdoch has gone into practice again
with a view of playing against the Britishers,
* * *
Fitz and Williams are to box to a finish at
Foley’s on Saturday night. Both are powerful
determined young fellows, and although Williams
may get the best of it for the first few rounds,
Fitz is pretty sure to wear him down and win,
* * *
Palmer has not yet sufficiently recovered
from his accident to play against Vernon’s team.
His absence will be a big lots to the Victorians.
* * *
The intention of the rival English teams
to coalesce for the purpose of playing All Austra-
lia is a good one. They will thus be able to put
into the field a stronger team than has yet repre-
sented England in Australia, and the match will
be worth going a long way to see. It is hoped a
i series of three matches will be arranged,


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre KOTAX—" Harbour Lights p. 1
Criterion Theatre.—" Twelfth Night ” . „
Alhambra Music Hall.— Sacred Concert
Her Majesi „ Theatre.—” Held by the Enemy ” p. i
Domain.—Pa Fireworks „
We are beginning to have our doubt
about the American Civil War —in fact, we don
believe there was ever any such thing. The story
we are convinced, was got up as a soap-adve
lisement by some designing person, and when w
find him we wiil tell him so. “ Held by th
Enemy Georee Rigaold’s latest venture at He
Maiesty’s —is another attempt to hold up th
moan old flam, and we warn the perpetrator tha
it won't do. There arc several strong situation
in the drama, however, and the old lie is followec
oat by the author with the energy of a man wh
means to make people believe there was a war o
else knock the street down with his head. Th
scena'is supposed t o be laid in an American cit
which the Federals are holding against th
Southern army. For our own part we know
there never were any Federals, and we ar
far from certain that there is such a plac
as America at all, but we will let that pas
Mr. Nelson Decker is captured with a lo
of awkward papers in his pocket, and as h
hurls scorn and derision in the teeth of 1
blue-bottle coloured flats sitting in front of a bi
gun, and tells them to go and hit some one a
numerous as themselves, he is sentenced to b
hanged as a spy. Next day he is blown out of gao
by a shell, and shot right into the presence of hi
rival, Colonel George R’gnold, but that office
preserves his calmness amid 1000 bricks and th
fragments of the roof, and when the dust clear
off the mangled spy is taken away snorting
Then he gets out of the hospital by pretending t
b 3 dead, and argues the point with the doctors
who decline to believe in his decease. One o:
them wants to put a bullet into him as he passe
to see if he is really a corpse, and the excitemen
grows awful. But just as the pinnacle of lurid row
begins to culminate he gets discouraged and give
up his Confederate ghost, and the story is vlr
tually over, The part of the spy is a small on
but it is played with sufficient success to mak
the gallery yell for “ Decker! ” as the curtain
comes down. Rignold’s American colonel is
good piece of acting, and as it is necessary to pu
in a colonel in order to lend an air of plausibilit
to the story about there having ever been a war
it is as well to have a nice one. Also, if there hat
been such a place as America—whicli there isn’t
it might he presumed there were some girls in it
so the author heaves in three of them. Susan
M‘Creery-as played by Miss Ada Decker—is
daisy little creature, and is improving every day
and her sister Rachel (Mias Kate Bishop) is also
nice girl to make love to. Mr. Brian Darley
plays with cold, colossal cheek as a war correa
pondent; and Mr. Charles Holloway is as good a
ever in the character of the brigade surgeon, and
altogether, unless the audience get disgusted a
the historical and other imposture practised upon
them, “Held by the Enemy ” ought to pay.
#* # *
The death of Moses, who was planted ou
in the land of Moab between 2000 and 3000 years
ago, has created a void which we fear will never
be completely filled. The world has not to this
day quite got over the shook of the old prophet’s
disappearance, but Mr. Dampler is doing his best
to alleviate the public sorrow for the departed by
putting ou “ The Unknown ” at Sydney Gaiety
It is an interesting drama, with, here and there
a touch of subdued humour; the comic element
however, is not too obtrusive for the present
state of the public feelings, and at the same time
the piece is not so like Moses as to open afresh the
partially-healed wound. In the first act a mad
doctor and a lawyer rush excitedly across the
stage two or three times and state that ha must
never come back alive. It would be roo-o-in.
They both put their hats down heavily on the
table and declare that he shall die first. In pur
suance of this resolution they start out in their
long-tailed coats and belltoppers and blow a man’s
head off in a boat while drifting down a dark anc
dirty river at midnight’s solemn hour. Then
each kicks his august person seventeen times
because their victim turns up, raving mad but
still alive, and after stowing him away in a lunatic
asylum they rush diagonally across the stage once
or twice and disappear. But after this the doctor’s
mood changes. He longs to give up his life of
crime and bloodshed and win the love of some in-
nocent, trusting girl with money, so that they
can walk hand in hand together, along the flowery
paths of life and weave daisy chains in meadows
where the man with his head blown off will never
penetrate. And the lawyer also hungers to woo a
lovely bride whose soft warm arms may steal
round his neck, and whose roeebud lips may be
pressed unto his shark likemouth, and he states that
If she won’t have him he will tear down the house,
and kick all the bark off the trees for seven miles
round, and then bury her alive and brick her up,
or else put her in a bag with seven live oats and
a snake, and let her find an unshovelled grave in
the hungry sea. They are both after the same
girl, which makes matters worse, and when she
declines with thanks, they murder her, and the
lawyer wanders away along the rocky shore, where
the dirge of the waves mingles with his solemn
thoughts, with the dead body under his arm. But
while he is gazing cn the vasty deep she comes to
life again, and nearly kicks the back of his head
off, and the lunatic gets back his reason and
mashes the features of the dire attorney, and an
old sailor treads on his prostrate form. He and
the doctor then rush across the stage two or three
times more, after which they give up. For a
melodrama “ The Unknown” is about as good as
they build them, and Mr. Dampier makes a grati-
fying lunatic. In fact he is by far tbe best lunatic
we have seen on the colonial stage, which is ter-
ribly short of good lunatics. At the door a man
tried to sell us a silk handkerchief for the price of a
stall ticket, saying he would dispose of his shirt to
see Miss Dampier again as Bessy Merrybright.
We declined, but we afterwards met him inside,
and he told us he had pawned his watch to get in.
Messrs. Baker and Stoneham, as the doctor and
the lawyer, were two very pleasant murderers,
and the other assassins were of the best quality,
## # #
At some early period— date not stated—
an amateur performance of “ New Men and Old
Acres” is to be given at Sydney Gaiety, under
vice-regal patronage, in aid of the National Ship-
wreck Relief Society of N.S.W. in general, and
the Cheviot sufferers in particular. Messrs. Dam-
pier and Foley kindly give the use of the theatre
for the evening.
## * #
“ Twelfth Night ” has been doing another
season and another success at Sydney Criterion.
We did not go to see it this time, because when
last we attended it we went home in a rowdy and
•clamorous condition from over-excitement, and
Wont to sleep under the shower-bath, with our
best hat held with both hands against our chest
and a sweet smile on our features. But we will
be on hand to witness “Cymbeline” next Satur-
day, and our voice will be heard hollering in the
dress circle, provided the inflated pirate at the
door will let us in. As far as we can recol-
lect, Essie Jenyns disguises herself as a boy in this
drama, and lives with three bears in a cave, and
we wouldn’t miss that for anything.
## * *
The people of Sydney are already becom-
ing irritable owing to the heat, and the manage-
ment of the Royal has resolved to soothe them
with comedy. Consequently, “Harbour Lights 1 ’
will go, and a combination bill, consisting of
“ Written in Sand” and “Nita’s First ” will take
its place on Saturday next. Thera is a blessed
baby in the latter piece. It was put in because
there wasn’t room for twins.
Ai. JA,
*n* 'lx' , 7v* *7V*
Sydney Royal Standard is suffering a tem-
porary eclipse, but it will be opened on November
9 for a benefit performance. This is about the
only thing going that isn’t on behalf of the
“ Queen s (Mind,” and it deserves support on that
account. Mr. Grant, K C.M.G., late manager, is to
receive the profits in recognition of his long and
distinguished services.
## # #
Pain, the pyrotechnic goblin, announces
a monster programme for November 9—Wales’
birthday—in aid of that badly-discouraged animal
the “Queen's Fund.” Governor Carington will
be there, if he is back from Melbourne in time
and hasn’t lost on the Cup all the assets left him
by his ancestor Smith.
#* # #
Sydney Alhambra is prospering as usual.
The company has been strengthened by
a reinforoement from the Royal Standard com-
bination, and is more numerous than usual, and
THE MAN WHO WANTED THE “BOX”—AND GOT IT.
Messrs. Keenan and Walsh have written a roy-
stering Chinese farce to prove that the Mongol
must go.
*# * #
Will some member of the N.S.W. Assem-
bly kindly ask why Pain, tire firework-man, should
be permitted to paste a huge free “ ad." on
every tram-car in Sydney ? When the question
was raised once before Parkes shuffled out by
saying that the same system was adopted with
regard to Rand wick races, but with his customary
knack of telling half the truth, and telling it
adly, he neglected to state that in the latter case
the “ ads.” were put on trams running to the
race ground only, whereas Pain’s staring notice
floats round Newtown, Waverley, Forest Lodge,
and everywhere else, and deluded strangers get
on to trams which they think are going to the
fireworks and are flopped down anywhere. Who
pays for this huge joke, by the way, and who gets
the money after it is paid, and why don’t the
tailors and the theatres get a similar benefit ?
## # #
Frank Clark’s “ Combination ” show,
which arrived from America by the Alameda, is
howling at Melbourne Opera House, and, for the
moment, music and the drama are taking a back
seat. About five per cent of this success can be
credited to the inevitable First Part, which is
about as full of originality as a quartern loaf.
The residue is scooped in by the new talent, all of
whom do something smart without taking too
long about it. Two knockabout niggers. Wilson
and Cameron, make a partial atonement for the
sins of others of their kind; while Fields and Han-
son produce strange music and fool around on a
system of their own. Mdlle. Garetta gambols with a
gentle flock of performing pigeons in a way which
ought to stir the conscience of a gun-club. An-
other sweet and refining influence is Miss May
Cameron, a young creature who combines the
beauty of the lily with the flexibility of the com-
mon jujube. Miss May squeezes her thirteen-inch
waist with One arm and puts the other round her
neck, just as if she was her own sweetheart.
Then she quietly strolls off tapping the back of
her head with her heels. Graceful serpen-
tiney, and modest all the time. Finally a
beardless youth billed as “Ouda” hangs out
the ceiling by an eyelash, and takes the whole
cake by common consent. This smiling stripling’s
elegant intrepidity sheds new lustre on his branch
of business. It surpasses all understanding and
closes the show with a bang. Frank Clark brings
the “ Combination ” along to Sydney in four or
five weeks, where it ought to draw both sexes in
equal proportions. The ladies—bless ’em—
have been frightened away somewhat from the
theatre by newspaper reports that the boss’s
wheezes were cerulean on the opening night.
Frank has bßen as retiring as a fawn ever since,
and it is only fair to say that proceedings are now
remarkable for Y.M.C. A. purity, etcetera.
#* # #
“ La Mascotte,” with Miss Maggie Moore’s
name in big letters, drew a crowd to Melbourne
Princess’s on Saturday. Backers attended in the
hope that she would bring them luck, and layers
came up smiling with similar expectations. Any-
way, they were all there, and the old jokes and
oft-sung melodies went about the same as ever.
Mr. Knight Aston “ glou gloued" with Miss
Moore, Mr. Elton gave Prince Laurent some
sporting allusions, Miss Colborne-Baber war Med
like an angel, and all the rest seemed as happy as
though they had found the winner. “ Mascotte ”
should run another week or so. Coghill Bro 3.
and the Silk Stockings continue to get along, but
Frank Clark's big biz. at the Opera House is
making things hot for the pair.
## # #
*' La Mascotte ” has now got possession of
Brisbane Gaiety, and is fairly popular, but even
the sweet strains of “ Glou-glou ” get tiresome if
kept up tall after midnight, aa was the case the
first night. Lately, however, Mr. Harding and
Miss Gracie Plaisted have alleviated the pro-
longedness of the cuddle, and have “ glou : ci ” a
little less. “Maritana”is to come next. Miss
Emelie Melville is doing pretty good business at
the Royal in “Masks and Faces,” which takes
rather better than “ London Assurance," and ,it
is hoped that “ Fauchon,” which is to open on
Monday night, will take better still.
*# # #
Italian opera “ gees ” in a general way at
Melbourne Royal, but not to any alarming degree.
There was a gaunt and hungry look about the
auditorium on two “Romeo and Juliet" nights,
last week, indicating a falling away from grace on
the part of the public. Signora Tagliavia went
out of her way to play Juliet in an auburn wig ;
and Signorina Cavalleri bore herself gallantly as
Romeo. Nevertheless, her helmet had a sharp
peak calculated to kill Juliet dead if the young
people embraced in the dark. There was also a
little something wrong about Santinelli's hat, but,
barring these defects, the opera was pleasing and
deserved better success.
#* * *
Buffalo Bill fell in love with Miss For-
tescue lately at a London theatre, and tried to
express his admiration to Oscar Wilde, who sat
next to him. He put 23 oaths in one sentence,
and then, words fading him, he fiilled the hiatus
by expectorating on Oscar's boots.
## # #
Some colonial actors, whose memories are
treacherous, have often had recourse to various
excuses in consequence. One has been known to
urge that the reason for his “drying up "was
because the gas got down his throat. Another
has been suddenly seized with a violent fit of
coughing, and walked up the stage saying:
“ Lord, bless me! This asthma is terrible,”
though not suffering from that malady. We dis-
tinctly remember one whose fa'se teeth fell out,
and he did not dare attempt to apeak, Morton
Tavares, once reprimanding an actor in his em
ploy for “sticking,” was told in retort that he
himself had “ stuck ” on the previous night.
“ Ah, but I’m the manager l”Jreplied Tavares,
.a/-
VV* TV* 'A'
A Russian proverb says : “ Make presents
o your judges, and you will gain all you seek
for.” Most theatrical stars have heard of Russia.
#* * #
Sir Charles Young, author of “ Jim the
Penman” and other plays, died last month in
London from a whole complication of diseases. He
was aged 48 A new author wants to sue Frank
Gardiner (Mr. Carrie Swain) for damages, because
he won’t accept a piece in which a storm o! light-
ning takes place amid a heavy fall of snow, while
amid these troubles Carrie is tied to a wheel by
two villains, and kept spinning round, now head
uppermost, now upside down, Mil she dies from
giddiness or something Minnie Palmer is
not making a pile at San Francisco
Mary Anderson is playing strange games with
Shakespeare at the London Lyceum. In the
“ Winter’s Tale ” she doubles the part of Hermione
and Perdita —mother and daughter—and when
the two have to meet—as she can’t come in on
each side at once and meet hers9lt—she brings in
a veiled, speechless, dummy Perdita which stands
with its back to the audience and groans.
...Grattan Riggs is recovering fast...... Fred, Mac-
cibe is coming out to Australia, and will appsar
at Hiscocks’ Academy of Music Wybert
Reeve has been preaching in Adelaide about
“ Heroes.” It take 3 a hero to sit out his dramas
sometimes “ Stay, gaoler, stay ;I am not
mad,” commenced the amateur elocutionist. “ No.
Ye ain’t got no cause to be. Us fellers out here
is the ones I” Mrs. Brown Potter’s husband
wantsher very much to come home. “Oh ! mother,
dear mother, conic home”—but the lady won't.
“ Brown,” she says, sternly, “I’m going to be a
hactress if I stick at it till my nose bleeds.”
When Mary Anderson made her first success she
was living in one mean little room in a cheap and
dingy New York boarding house, and she cele-
brated the occasion by shouting herself a pork-
chop for supper. The manager dropped in to
congratulate her, and found her sitting in a cane
chair, with her feet on another of the same
pattern, and hooraying as she waved the clean-
picked bone in the air.
A swell thief, arrested in Sydney the othef
day, was observed by two detectives to enter 1!
lawyer’s offices in the space of an hour and
quarter. It is just possible that he may have
managed to carry off McNamara’s lease, which
Parkes alleges is all right.
The Melbourne police ran in a wag named
M'Leod for “ playing an unlawful game ” on the
racecourse. Mao’s diversion was a high-tonec
exposition of the old familiar purse-trick, Insteac
of dropping three miserable half-crowns in the
lucky bag, and selling the lot for just half-a-
crown, this genius wished to supply the public
with five Jubilee sovereigns for twenty shillings.
When it was explained to the Bench that Mac’s
sovereigns turned into glittering halfpennies, they
decided this wasn’t much of a game, anyhow, anc
dismissed the prisoner.
Barnfield, thB well-known bookmaker anc
sporting man, was, twenty years ago, a member
of the Victorian detective police. His last big
case was in 1867, when a chemist, at Hotham
(Melb.), was prosecuted on a charge of having
poisoned his wife. The prisoner alleged that she
drank herself to death, but Dr. Brownless stuck
to the assertion that she was poisoned with anti-
mony. The man was tried and acquitted, and
when the jury gave their verdict he fainted in the
dock. When he recovered he declared to judge
and jury that he was innocent,
Mr. M‘Million, M.L.A,, recently ex-
plained in the back-blocksthatalthoughhisfirmhad
given £5O to the Bull! Fund, the amount had
never been credited simply because the collector
had neglected to call for the cheque. He said
with woe in his voice that the fund was now
closed, and consequently the firm couldn’t pay the
£5O, and its distress was so great thereat that
sleep had deserted its eyes and grief gnawed at
its vitals. We note that Mr. M’Million’s firm has
put its impersonal name down for £lOO to the
Parkes Sympathetic Fund, so the collector for the
latter had better hurry up and secure the cheque,
or the firm will have more grief, and the accumu-
lated woe might result in ossification of the hippo-
campus and a premature opening of a softgoods
branch in Itookwood.
The other day two doctors fell out in the
street of a little N.S.W. up-country town, and the
big one told the little one to go home and be -
&c. He a 1 so considered that if the small doctor
stayed out any longer he might get a compound
fracture of the leg, and then he put him to rout
and chased him into his pill-factory. When the
little apothecary at last ventured out he went and
swore an information in a shrill voice against his
antagonist, and the case came on for hearing with
the treble doctor In the witness-box and the bass
one scowling at him from an adjoining bench.
The case lasted two minutes by the beak’s Water
bury. “ I haven’t lived long in this country ”
plaintively piped the little doctor, “ and I didn’t
come out from England to be bullied and in-
sulted —Then the J.P. turned purple and
chimed in: “ Doorin’ me long c’reer on the
Binch,” he roared, “ I have niver bin called a
bully till to-day. Clear out. The case is dis-
missed.” “ I didn’t mean you," wailed the doctor
in the box, “ I ” “Gerroutl Case dismissed I
Court adjourned ! I’ll c’mit ye for contimpt 1 ”
Dear Bulletin,— You frequently give
sketches about the rabbit pest in your columns
but, so far, you have never suggested a remedy!
Perhaps you don’t know one. [Just so.— Ed.
Bulletin. ] If so, let me inform you how it can
be done. Just look at the quickset (hawthorn)
hedges in England. Do you think a rabbit or
dingo can penetrate them ? If they are planted
about nine inches apart they interlace so that*
after the second year, nothing can get through
them. The present price of plants in Sydney is
10s. per 1000, but if a few acres were plant9d in
various parts of the colony the Co3t would sink to
a mere nominal figure. A man could plant 20 to
40 chains a day—say 20, at Bs. par diem for wages
which is equal to £1 12s. per mile. Such hedges
require less attention than any fence in present
use, no stock oan penetrate them, and they are
dense enough to keep out rabbits, dingoes, kanga-
roos, paddymelons, &c. They are everlasting, do
not spread unduly, and they won’t burn—in fact,
[ believe they would stop bush-fires, Let them
be used everywhere for fencing, and then the
rabbits can easily be killed off in the enclosed
areas.—Yours, &c,, P. N. [How is “P. N. ”
joing to beep the rabbits from eating his hedge
before it has time to grow ; also, what is to keep
them from burrowing under it?— Ed, Bulletin J


Pepper
Salt
John Francis King, of Sydney, auc-
tionear’s clerk, has wrestled with the Law Insti-
tute of N.S.W., and has been fined £lO and £lO
costs for his pains. He had a lot of ideas, and
they have proved expensive. His offence con-
sisted in the fact that, not being a sharkirg
lawyer or apprentice to a brigand attorney, he
did, with malica aforethought and in cold blood,
contrary to the peace of her Majesty the Queen
and in contravention of the 13th section of some
particular statute, draw up a conveyance for one
“ Zachary C. Barry, journalist”—we can hardly
believe that our old friend the rev. editor of the
Protestant Standard could be so sordid as to
trade in terrestrialsuburbanlots—anddrewitbadly
and charged 30s. for it. ZacharyC. Barry after wards
went back on him, and the poor victim, having
heard a lot about hell, thought it advisable to
knock under at once, and then the Full Court sat
on his flattened form. Chief Justice Darlay con-
sidered that the 13th section of the statoot, by
which people who were not lawyers were pro
hibited from doing lawyers’ work at reduced
rates, and thereby taking the pork and beans out
of the mouth of the profession, was —ahem lenactedI —
enacted solely for the protection of the
public, and that John F. King’s offence
required to be wiped out in blood. The
only thing he was surprised at was that the
miserable book-keeping man bad not been brought
up at the Police Court. But though he thus
snuffed out the man who tried to ba a lawyer,
he had nothing at all to say about the lawyer who
tries to be an actor, or a cat-chorus man in an
opera company, or a land-grabber, or a Kurrsjong
Heights dodger, or about the parson who tries
to be an editor, or about the lawyer’s relation who
steals some thousands and then tries to be a luna-
tic when he i 3 found out, from which we presume
the lawyers are still the only class who are to be
protected from outside competition. And now
John F. King, in the inner chamber of his heart,
curses the whole legal profession :
Cursed be the love of traffic that ensnared your souls to
greed,
Cursed he the sallow lawyer who prepared and drew the
deed,
Cursed be the foul apprentice who the loathsome fees did
earn,
Cursed be the land allotment; oursed be the whole concern.
The above is not strictly original, but it is good,
and we are prepared to wager- that it ex-
presses Mr. King’s feelings.
* * *
‘ s The Wesleyan mission to the West End
Of London will be inaugurated to-morrow. The
Rev. Price Hughes, in the course of an interview,
explained the object of the mission. The West
End of London was, he said, the Yanity Fair of
the world, and Christians must compete with its
attractions in their efforts to catch souls. The
services will be popular in character, and con-
ducted with orchestral accompaniments. Concerts
will be given. Good women will also ha sent
forth to attack the social evil in its lairs,”—Mel-
bourne D.T., October 20.
A few wandering Salvationists held a
holiness meeting about a fortnight ago in a mining
camp near Lyell (N.Z.), and many hardened
sinners were scruffed into the fold. The local
drunkard entered in at the narrow gate, and in a
brief and pathetic address he sated that beer had
lost its attractiveness for him; a dazed-looking
nigger knocked and it was opened unto him, and
in broken accents he declared that he would
smite his missus on the head with a chair-leg no
more; and a Chinaman explained that he had
put on the garment of righteousness and was
waiting anxiously for the summons to a fairer
wo'rld on high, and meanwhile, during his so-
journ on earth, he would continue to sell cab-
bagee of the best quality at reasonable rates, and
trusted the Clistians of the neighbourhood would
patronise him in preference to Hi Skunk, the
rival Mongolian, who was an unconverted Philis-
tine, and was still in the bond of sin and the gall
of iniquity, also his lettucae would be found of
superior quality, and with regard to carrots he
considered he could wipe the floor with any other
vegetable merchant in the district Behold, the
bridegroom cometh. Further, in the matter of
beans he would shortly be able to supply his cus-
tomers with an article which had never been
equalled in that part of the countly. He was
choked off at this point by the chief shepherd,
who considered that the foreign brother was deal-
ing too much with worldly concerns, and accord-
ingly the Chinaman closed with an impassioned
peroration, in which he expressed a firm convic-
tion that he would meet them all in the city
which was paved with gold, and there fly him
bow wow in him pan, allee samee Chinee-
man did on earth; also he wished to state
that concerning potatoes, the beastly article
vended by that swindling leper, Hi Skunk,
who deserved to boil for ever in t he lowest sink in
Tophet—at this stage he was literally forced into
a seat, and a long, sad-looking white brother took
his place, and said he would like to make a few
remarks. He felt it was good to be there. For
many years he had led a sinful existence caring
nothing for sacred things, but his heart had sud-
denly undergone a change. The emotions which
filled him at that moment were beyond his power
to analyse. Hitherto his soul had been wrapped
up entirely in his business; in fact, he might
mention that he had come into that district as
agent for a valuable work, which he was pre-
pared to supply at 4s for each monthly number.
It would be completed in fifty parts, and, con-
sidering its merits, no intelligent man or woman
should be without it, the illustrations alone being
worth far more than the price demanded. For
the last six months he had devoted himself to the
sale of this work, completely neglecting the
higher considerations which led to eternal life,
and so much had he been wrapped up in the con-
cerns of this world that he even had a copy in his
pocket at that moment, which he would be happy
to show to any brother or sister who might feel
inclined to subscribe. Kveu in his unregenerate
state he had booked several thousand orders, and
—— but at this juncture the deacon fell on him
and drove him out, and, while he was being
emerged, the saved Chinaman took the oppor-
tunity to state in great excitement that that un-
principled idolator, Hi Skunk, frequently sold
cabbagee with giubs in them, whereas he vended
a really superior article. Enter ye at the narrow
gate . Here he also went out suddenly, aad
after a few words from the chief Salvationist, in
the course of which he casually mentioned that
he was prepared to supply Salvation hymn-books
at Is. 6d. each, the proceedings closed with
prayer.
* * *
A reverend gentleman has been lecturing
in Melbourne about the Red Sea, principally in
connection with poor old Paaroah and the Israel-
ites. He says he has discovered the real place
where the Israelites crossed over—the other place
poin'.ed out “ was not possible, being eight miles
in width, and enclosed on its further side by pre-
cipitous cliffs.” We like this. It is in the good
old style of Biblical criticism. The Red Sea was
divided and held back as a wall on either hand
for the ancient pawnbrokers to pass over. That
was all right. In fact it was easy. But the get-
ting through or over cliffs would have teen
another matter. It is not mentioned in the Bible.
Therefore, &c. The reverend gentleman brought
back with him from Sinai a piece of the rock
which Moses struck for water. It is a very
ordinary-looking piece of stone with a hole in it—
no doubt where Moses stuck the ferule of his staff
into it. That staff or rod was probably a
diamond-drill,
# * *
Sir Robert Stout, ex-Premier of N.Z;,
contributes to a little Wellington paper, Truth,
a peculiarity of which is that while one side of it
is full of gospel narratives by all sorts of holy men
from Spurgeon down to the latest Salvation
Harmy Capting, the ether side is crammed with
contributions from such well-known freethinkers
es Mr. Ballance, Sir Robert Stout, and others.
The leading article was headed, “ What think ye
cf God ? ” and an attempt at perusal proved it to
he a sermon of the dullest type. On the Free-
thought page of the same paper there is an article
on N.Z. politics, where the electors are advised,
after some preliminary badgering, to deal with a
certain political opponent thusly :
“ Then treat him as you would a dirty cat. Rub his nose
well till he claws and meows, spits and splutters all round,
and make him swallow the whole speech, lies and all. Then
throw rotten eggs at him, and dead cats, and stale fish, and
soft brickbats, till he runs off the stage home to his friend
lawyer Izard. But, before you let him go, tell him (while
you are rubbing his nose, &c ) that the questions to be
settled at the coming elections are too momentous for Jack
Buddings and professional political tricksters to be al owed
to draw their dirty cloaks over them, that you, the electors,
have to consider how to get this co ony out of the national
stagnation and impending bankruptcy that Mr. Puff and
his patrons have brought upon it, and that you have to select
the persons most fitted to assist the country through its
frightful difficulties."
What think ye of Truth ?
* * *
There is a cloud on the social horizon in
Wellingtcn (N.Z,) on account of a story in which
a flit, an opera cloak, a lady, a bottle of stout, a
pawn-ticket, a tempestuous domestic row, and
other circumstances are mixed up. The trouble
began when Mrs. Kidd of that city went to spend
a week with some friends, and left Kidd, who
was old enough to know batter, making love to
pretty women whom he met in the train. He
met a lot of them, and one, a fair, enslaving
creature, just arrived from the country—a girl
with a peach-blow complexion and all the rest-
confided to him that she would like to go to the
theatre, but she had no one to take her. Kidd
said he would bo most happy, and when she recol-
lected that she couldn’t do it because she had left
her opera wrap at home lying on the piano along
with her cheque-book, he offered to lend her
Mrs. Kidds red plash garment. So they
had a royal time, and when she went
home she promised faithfully to return the
wrap next morning. But she forgot, some-
how, and when next day Mrs. Kidd came home
and said she had made up her miad to go to the
theatre that night, and where in all creation was
her cloak, a cold perspiration burst out all over
Kidd, and he went off in a cab to find the lady of
last night's oyster supper and recover the missing
link before his wife shoald bBgin to throw chairs
at him. He found her, but oh ! how changed.
She had on a cotton dress which had shrunk
almost to her knees ; her shoes were down at
heel and her ankles showed through the holes in
her stockings. She was drinking bottled stout
out of a tumbler and keeping herself up with a
snack ; she looked sour and out of temper ; her
hair was in her eyes and in the stout,
and ib drifted about the table and mixed
with the snack, and she had no collar, no
cuffs, no smile, no manners, and there was
grease on her mouth. She said she had never
seen Kidd or the cloak or the opera, and if he
didn’t go she would call her husband and have
him put hout. Then the miserable man offered
£5 cash for the missing plush, and the fair en-
slaver relented and took the note and gave him
the pawn-ticket, after which she froza up again
and said she would put the dog on him. Conse-
quently he left in haste, and having paid 10s. to
the pawnbroker, he recovered the garment,
which was done up in a hard ball. And his
wife went to the opera in it that night,
and came back as mad as if she had
bBen boiled, for it was only after she arrived at
the theatre that some horrid cat drew attention
to the fact that beer had been spilt all down the
rear of the garment, and remarked that it smelt
of drink, And when Kidd explained that the
damage had been done by a burglar, she assumed
an unfeeling expression and said “ Bosh 1”
There are quite a lot of places which it
isn’t safe for a lady to hide a leiter in when she
wants to leep it private. It isn’t a good idea, for
example, to stow it in the hinder pocket of her
clothes, and the old-fashioned letter-box which
lovers were so fond of 100 years ago—the hollow
tree in the woods—has generally a spider in it,
also a small snake, a quart of dead flies, and three
pints of cockroaches. If she is writing to another
fellow whom she shouldn't oughter, it doesn’t
do, either, to entrust the document to a suburban
post-office “ to be left till called for,” and the lady
who takes such a risk generally finds in the end
that it would have been better if a charge of duck-
shot had been fired into her legs, and a plate of
boiling soup spilt into her bustle ; and, in fact,
almost the only safe thiDg a girl can do is to burn
the treacherous document as soon as written, and
hide the ashes by dropping them down her back.
And this moral reflection brings us in eight of
what we have been trying to say all along. At a
certain circulating library in Sydney a lady was,
until very recently, a regular visitor, and as she
came out a gentleman used to stalk in with an
indifferent ” don't-know-yer” aspect in his eye,
and carelessly take down a dusty little volume
that nobody ever locked at from a particular
corner. It was a religious work, so it was certain
not to be disturbed. Then he would pick out a
little note from between the leaves, and after
yawning round the premises for ten minutes or so
he would select some gallows-romance or other
and depart. But one day recently the arrange-
ment went amiss. The lady had gone in as usual
with her note, and the other feilowhad just turned
up outside, when he was petrified to see his
own wife pass him and enter the door
with an aspect of strong ferocity in her
face and all her claws extended. He fol-
lowed her with horror imprinted on his counten-
ance, and was just in time to see his lady love’s
hair rise up slowly and stand on end as the
gorgon-like female brushed past her and made
straight for the fatal volume of holy palaver, and
as she took it down from the shelf the miserable
authoress of the hidden letter fell back at an
angle of several hundred degrees against the
librarian, and lay insensible with her head under his
arm. The wife at sightof this collapse rushed to her
assistance, and the husband ranged alongside and
offered to hold the book for her while she lifted
the fainting lady up, but she explained that she
could carry it with one hand and b;irg the
sufferer round with the other. Then (he invalid
revived and offered to hold the hoik whi e her
enemy fetched some water, and the triumphant
gorgon said she would just shake the dust cff
the volume first, but her victim begged her with
tears not to shake it on any account for fear she
might raise a cloud of fluff. The husband con-
SONNET TO THE N.S.W. COUNTRY PRESS.
(WITH APOLOGIES TO THE POET HALLORAN.)
“ The whale N.S.W. country Bres3, with a few miserable
exceptions, is with Sir Henry Parkes.” — Parkesian Hired
Liar.
Blood curdlirg fiends! whom neither earth nor
hell
With all its brindled ban-dogs, nor the dread
Of visitations of the sheeted dead,
With all their execrations in one yell,
Fright nor appal! Wherever ye may dwell—
In Currabubula, or at the head
Of energetic billabong, or bed
Of grisly creek, where the church-going bell
Is strange as good men’s feasts —why will ye
joke ?
Why will ye frivolous be, or ever press
The flippant je3t ? Ye have your squalid drunks,
And petty debts, and pounds, and “ galling
yokes ”
Good cacodsemons of the country Press !
Why, theD, make earth a hell ? Avaunt ye
skunks!
Glory hallelujah! let us shout with one acoord—
The swells of Piccadilly are a-coming to the
Loard ;
A mission, lately started by some clever Christian
men,
Is really doing wonders for the British Upper Ten.
’Twas perfectly apparent that in order to compete
With entertainments offered every day to the
elite,
This Mission must provide a pretty giddy sort of
show,
And so put on the Gospel as to make it fairly
“go.” ■
At last they’re taking measures iaded sinners to
ensnare
With a well-appointed ballet as the prelude to a
prayer ;
And when the prayer is over (it is never very
long)
The pertesb of the parsons sings the company a
song.
An orchestra of fifty, picked performers to be
sure,
Before the sermon opens play a brilliant overture,
Then (worked in silver thread upon a satin ground
of blue)
The blessed text is handed round to every blessed
pew.
No need to say the discourse move 3 the haughtiest
of hearts,
Since the fiddlers play slow music at the senti-
mental parts ;
And when the D l’s mentioned, how the coun-
tesses do jump!
For an ever-watchful drummer gives his instru-
ment a thump.
If a dude grows rather weary of providing for his
soul
He lights a cigarette, and leaves the building for a
stroll ;
Rut the ladles keep their seats until the minister
has done,
Then gather round the altar for their sherry, and a
buu.
This Mission, too, has agents always eager in a
search
For any stray nobility that never come to church ;
The naughty dukes and marquises are tackled in
their lairs
By rosy-cheeked young charmers who convert ’em
unawares.
There’s a wonderful improvement in the morals of
the earls,
Solely brought about by visits from these pretty
Mission girls ;
And as for all the barons, viscounts, baronets, and
such,
AN HISTORICAL SPECULATION.
JOHNSON (gazing upward at the coat of arms on Sydney Town Hall): “I TAKE, BUT I
SURRENDER!—WHAT THE DOOCE DOES THAT MEAN?”
JOBSON: “WELL, YOU SEE, IT WAS JUST THIS WAY. THE FIRST ALDERMAN
WAS AN UNSUCCESSFUL BUSHRANGER.”
They have also been converted and they like it
very much.
Thanks to the attractions of this merry Mission,
then.
Religion’s quite in fashion with the British Upper
Ten ;
And many noted parties are a-comlng to the
Loard
Who were hitherto prevented by the dread of
being bored.
A SONG,
DEDICATED TO NEWSPAPER AND POET-PRO
PRIETORS.
Con expressione.
When the eve is falling duskly,
And the breeze is blowing muskly,
And his voice the poet huskly
In gutturals doth drown—
More pathetico.
What doth that poet gnoming
In the dimness of the gloaming ?
Tremolo.
Ah me ! he waiteth tristful,
With a cobwebbed eye, and wistful,
To borrow half-a crown.


sidered this a material point and offered to go and
shake the dust off the volume outside, and the
librarian, -who was now growing excited, proposed
that he should get under the counter aad shake
it, but the holder of the religious woik didn’t
like to trouble them, and considered that if they
would support the fainting female subscriber for a
moment she would go herself and shake it on the
pavement. She had only got halfway to the door,
however, when a dismal shriek arose, and the
shattered lady in the chair got up and tottering
after her collapsed in hysterics with her armj
around her, and asked if she was really going to
leave her in her present suffering condition, and
then being taken worse she implored her to put
the book on a chair and hold her up with both
hands. This offer being declined, the husband
frantically begged her to lay the volume on the
counter, and the librarian, in a frenzy, urged h-r
to rest it on the table as she might get tired hold-
ing it, but she said she didn’t like to let it go, as
some of the leaves were loose, and they might get
lost if she didn’t stick to it. At this the weeping
creature on the floor said, in a voice broken with
sobs, that she would take the book and gum in the
loose pages, and the librarian, who was now fully
alive to the situation, leaped over the counter
with a hammer and a lot of tacks, and said that
if she would give it to him he would nail the
work together, and the husband, in an agony of
perspiration, offered to take it out and have it re-
bound in five minutes, but the lady was adamant.
She said she was going to take it home as it was,
and when the librarian suddenly remembered that
the last man who had taken that volume out had
died of smallpox she only said she had been re-
cently vaccinated, so it was all right. Then as a
last forlorn hope the husband pushed a £2O note
into the librarian's hand, and told him to do some-
thing, he didn’t care what, and the librarian
cleared across the road in two bounds, and gave
£5 to the butcher opposite, and the next thing
they knew the butcher’s big dog concussed against
the other man’s wife just as she quitted the door-
way and careered away down the street with the
book and a mouthful of clothes in his teeth. By
the time he was overtaken he had eaten all the
note except the date, and nearly the whole book
as well, and then, his blood being up, he started
back to eat the lady whom he had knocked down,
and was hauled off with difficulty by the butcher
and a policeman. Two badly broken-up women
were then sent home in separate cab?, and when
they were gone the librarian and the husband and
the butcher stood and looked at each other and
said nothing. Only the librarian winked a little,
and the husband coughed, and after a minute they
all shook hands and parted.
ABO HUMILITIES.
THOSE STORIES.
Oh, bring to me my grey goose-quill and gai'>
twaDg the lyre,
My soul is burning bright with Mr. What-dye
call-um’s Are
(I mean he who to steal a light from Jupiter die
strive)
And had his liver eaten by the vultures while
alive;
For I in verses worthy of a Hallelujah Colonel
Would sing about those Competition Stories in
“ The Jernel.”
“ Who dares to say Australia has no history of its
own?
Who says Australian natives are not loyal to the
Throne ?
Oh, list to me, and all the world our loyalty shall
see,
For we’Jl show ’em what we’re made of,” said the
gallant Alfred B.
Then offered he a high reward to those who tales
would write
Of ancient days in New South Wales, of deeds of
glory bright;
And promised—who for such a prize would not be
glad to speak 1—
He’d print ’em in the Jernil ! at the rate of
three per week.
Then every man took up his pen, and every
woman, too,
And wrote about the convicts and the bushrangers
they knew,
And lauded up their fathers who were sent to
Sydney’s Bay,
The scrapings of a country sixteen thousand miles
away.
They told of how their Harmy in the world had
made a noise,
And called the donkey-kidnappers “ Our Gallant
Soudan Boys ; ”
They spoke with adulation of each forger, rogue,
and thief,
As well as of “ Her Graciously Pre-eminent in
Grief.”
One takes three pages telling all about a charming
bride
Who would have lived till now, but she ’unfor-
tunately died ;
Another to our bobbies brave a lesson tries to
teach,
And found a “ Norrid Murder” on a squashed-up
gory leech;
One tells us how a bush young man got mashed
upon a name,
And when he’d found the owner, had a black gin
for his flame.
And yet another—how a man was murdered by A
ghost!
While driving through the bush, to carry letters
to the post.
All these has Alfred printed, and lie now in
accents terse,
Is glad to say the stories “Are not getting any
worse!”
Then let each grizzled stockman hang his bridle
on its peg,
Each navvy lay aside his pick a pen and ink to
beg;
Let bullock-drivers swear no more, no more the
echoes rouse,
Let Cockeis’ wive 3 and daughters go no more a
milking oows.
But let them all take up the pen, and write three-
column tales
Of ancient days and ancient men in sunny New
South Wales,
And send ’em in to Alfred, without misgivings
internal—
However bad, they'll print ’em in the Down and
Gltmtree Jernel.
COCENEY.
When Mathew Barnett, the great cold-
water cure, first went to Victoria, about 20 years
ago, he paid a visit to the Durham Lead, then a
populous mining district, and soon collected a
reputation as an interesting curiosity. His wild
antics on the platform, and weird, fanciful style if
address, were set down by ihe undemenstrative
diggers as the vagaries of a lunatic; but there
were numbers who looked upon the lanky, slab-
sided, weazened enthusiast as a saint of the first-
waler. Comishmen flocked to his standard in
numbers—the K. G. (Cousin Jack) is very impres-
sionable—fanatic sm and fatty pastry are his
forte. His Majesty, King Billy Baninjong, was
camped with his subjec:s, numbering one hundred
souls, close to the I.ead, at the time. King Billy
was a monarch of some importance in those days,
and experienced little difficulty in obtaining
enough alcoholic stimulant to keep him-
self well “in soak.” The shining lights,
of the Lead had frequently besought his royal
mb3 to forsake the paths of vice and bush spirits,
join the Methcdist fold, and book himself for a
pair of wing 3, a lit le Larp, and a stand in glory ;
but the king could not be reasoned out of his ras-
cality. The K.G s, never despai.ing, persuaded
Matthew to try and reclaim His Gracious from
the broad road that leadeth hell ward. So on a
Sabbath afternoon Brother Burnett, accompanied
by a number of local preachers and followed by a
crowd of curious clay-punchers, sailed for the
aborigines’ camp. They found King Biily, under
the lee of a big fire, baking the mud cruat, on his
regal person. The young men, the old men, the
dogs, and the gins of the tribB, all came and
squatted round when Matthew started to exhort.
Any person who remembers Matthew Burnett in
his prime can picture the attenuated, grotesque
enthusiast the centre of a crowd of stoical abori-
ginals and grinning diggers. The temperance
crusader dwelt hotly upon the evils of the
liquor traffic, and wildly besought the nigs, to
throw down tbe bottle, and gradually, as he
always did, worked himself into a fearful state of
hysterics. He pranced about like a lunatic on
wires, crouched, jumped, gesticulated frantically,
roughed his hair, beat his breast, and hauled
down grace hand over hand ; Ecreaming hoarsely
at times, and anon sinking his voice to a whisper.
The niggers gazed upon him approvingly, giving
occasional short grunts, and when, after about
half an hour of this killing work, the orator
stopped, pale and exhausted, King William Bun-
inyong arose from where he sat, and said de-
lightedly, “ Good pfeller I Good you! Budgery
corroboree ! Good! Good 1“ Then, in a whole-
souled burst of generosity, he turned to his mia-
mia, drew out an old billy, loaded a pint pannikin,
and handed it to Burnett, It was beer. The
AN ORIGINAL FANCY-DRESS COSTUME.
dunder-headed savage thought the display a sort
of corroboree organised for his benefit. Matthew
pulled down his vest, gazed hopelessly upon his
companions, sighed sadly, and they all turned and
walked away without another word.
• * *
“ Forfcy-iive Festering Corpses ” is the at-
tractive title of an article in a ‘Frisco daily. But
whea Alfred the Great Journalist gets a chance to
describe the appearance of “Six Sanguinary
Sweltering Suicides ” the soul of that ’Frisco man
will yearn for the dark and dismal solitude of. a
narrow “ pine-liner,” and the Eyunooze will cir-
culate in Durand’s Alley and the Rocks even unto
the forty-second edition.
# * *
From a casual inspection of the mashers
of the period we are strongly inclined to believe
that the kind of hand which d. 3 used as a model by
kid-glove makers doesn't grow in Australia. The
waste of 'possum-skin kid involved in putting
taper fingers on to gloves to be worn by the large-
knuckled, chubby-fingered hidalgos of Potts Point
is saddening in the extreme. The kind of glove
that would take well and give pleasure to all
local aristocrats is one with five fingers and a
breadth of five inches across the back of the hand.
Darling Point dukes would be suited right down
to the ground with a glove architected on these
lines.
SONG OF THE SHEARER.
Click! click ! click I ’Tis the merry full speed of
the shears
As the pink-bodied beauties are stript,
How the snowy coats roll in a gathering scroll
As the points and the stockings are dipt!
C BOR us.
W'ith a click and a chop—how the woolly coats
drop,
While the big sweat is falling like dew
On the leather-neck el fellows, the gentle rcsellas,
The wether, the ram, and the ewe.
Wool away ! wool away! ’ Tis the ringer we hear,
As deftly it flies from the floor.
Now, the raddle brand’s on—there's another one
gone
To swell up the ta’ly and score!
Chorus.
With a click and a chop—how the woolly coats
drop
While the big sweat is falling like dew
On the leather-necked fellows, the gentle rcsellas,
The wether, the ram, and the ewe.
Rub ! rub I rub! ’Tis the turkey and sweetlips are
met,
And soon they are keen for the fray ;
Now, a dive in the pen—click and snap and again
They are merrily chopping away.
Chorus.
With a click and a chop—how the woolly coats
drop,
While the big sweat is falling like dew
On the leather-necked fellows and gentle rosellae,
The wether, the ram, and the ewe.
Tar here! and tar there I are the sounds that we
hear,
’Tis the learner or him that Is slow;
At the cuts and the stabs —how the nimble boy
dabs
Tar again—at the very next blow.
Chorus.
With a click and a chop—how the woolly coats
drop,
While the big sweat is falling like dew
On the leather-necked fellows and gentle rosellas,
The wether, the ram, and the ewe.
Then roll up 1 for our cheque?, ’tis the very last
day,
And hurrah for the knights of the shears I
Roll up ! you and me for a jolly good spree,
And we’ll drink to the jolly next year’s.
Chorus.
With a shout and a .rout we will travel about—
To the deuce with all trouble and cares !
At the shanty we’ll stay till our cheques melt
away,
Then hurrah for the knights of the shears !
Note — " Rosella"—a half-fleeced sheep, or one that is
losing its wool —generally applied to old ewes.
J. M.
Some little time ago the Holy Fathers of
the Wesleyan Church in New Caledonia filled their
sanctified souls with the notion that it would be a
blest el thing to assemble in solemn conclave and
lie cold coffee round their throbbing brows, and
S3t to work to bring out a copy of Britain's bul-
wark in the choicest kanaka tongue, so that thd
“pore little heathen” could sit under the
shadow of his own cccoanut palm—heavily mort-
gaged to the church—and improve his miser-
able mind by reading all about Jonah and the
whale, and scare his famiiy circle by the new
vei sion of the terrors of the bottomless pit. Ac-
cordingly, the holy fathers met, and started the
pious work, takirg the New Testament first, but
before they had finished their first sitting they
wtre wound up with a sudden jerk that threat-
ened to burst the whole project. It appears that
the only animal the pure, unsophisticated savage
over the e knows anything about is the pig, and
he is uttt. riy incapable of imagining any other.
Hence, when the missionaries wish to speak to the
kanaka about a horse, they have to call it the
“swift running pig,” the cow is the “horned
pig,” the rabbit the “ long-eared pig with the
short tail," and so on. Consequently, when the
Holy Fathers came to the passage which refers to
“ the Lamb, &c.,” they found themselves so
badly cornered that they were at first inclined to
pitch the contract up entirely, but the thoughts of
the pore little heathen pining away for his
Bible, and of the tons of trade that would be lost
to the mission, proved too strong, and the awkward
passage was translated, and now stands in the
kanaka's bulwark as “the woolly little baa-baa
pig of God.”
* * *
Christopher Farrell, of Melbourne, has
gone up for 12 years’ hard labour. He took a
shot at Detective Ni’xod, and had it not bBBn that
the bullet lodged in a book which that zealous
officer carried in his pocket, there would have
been a vacancy in the detective-force. And that
book, beloved brethren, was a Bible—a Bible
which had been bestowed on the policeman in
childhood by his mother, now in heaven. No, it
wasn’t; it was a pack of cards ! Had you there,
beloved brethren 1
* * *
“A Fijian policeman swam through the
breakers from the wreck with a coolie child in
each arm, and the mother on his back.” Tnat’s
the sort of thing they think worth putting in type
now. Do you recollect when Cleopatra’s wash-
tub was smashed on the rocks of Chasland’s De-
lusion, one black night 40 years ago? Supped
your memory, perhaps ? W ell, we were down on
the beach contemplating the grandeur of the
great storm, when the blue lighis of a ship's
broubiemet our eye. Ti ere was no brat near us in
which to go to their assistance, and for a moment
we almost despaired of succouring them. Then a
blast from seaward caught our left ear and blew
us half a mile inland against a house. The house
and a great inspiration struck ns at the same
time. We went into it and borrowed a wire
clothea-lite and a saw, and, reefing onr eais, got
back to the shore agtio. There was not a moment
to be lest now. Above ihe roar of the wild waves
breaking over the doomed ship we could hear the
voice of a Presbyterian elder yelling to heaven for
mercy, and promising to reform his life if it was
saved, and many her. Where the interest of the
fair sex is concerned jou know what we’re like.
So, in ten minutes we had sawn off our offending
ear, and binding the clothes line round the narrow
end to make her watertight, had launched her on
the ragieg sea. Fortunately for the unfortunates,
the wind changed and blew from the land. We
lay down in the stern-sheets, and in two minutes
we had the elder on board entreating us to
push off and not wait for any more “in-
sides” that trip, in case of beirg swamped.
But we had confidence in our little craft, and in-
sisted on saving the whole of the crew and pas-
sengers, limiting them to one hundredweight of
luggage per adult and half that quantity for
children. Then the captain wanted us to take
his favourite bower anchor aboard, but we
thought we had enough on, and we had just ac-
quired a new facility for turning a deaf ear to
him. So, with 113 “assisteds,” exclusive of the
crew, a cow, and some goats, we put off from the
ship, just in time to escape being sucked under as
she sank. But ihe land wind prevailing, we were
blown away out on the great ocean, for we could
not steer our ear a bit. Our water-barrels ran out,
but a violent storm coming on, we expanded our un-
injured ear, and caught a plentiful supply. For
many days we drifted hither and thither, un-
knowing where we were. The elder had eaten
most of the cow, and the goats had been divided
among the rest, and the of hunger began
to assail us. Then a dread danger arose. Ihey
began to cut steaks off the gunwales of our ear,
and each day brought the waters closer. When
ihe end had almost come, we were sighted by a
Blackwall liner, who took all hands on board, and
towed our ear in her wake into port, where, after
having it keeled and scraped, we fitted it up for
sale to the N. S.W. Government as a man-of-war,
havingchristened it the Wolver [E'enhere, drop
it. In unscrupulous hands, the human lie becomes
almost repulsive.—Ed. B J
* * *
A Benedictine father bailed up an escaped
sheep in Auckland the other day, and pointed out
to him for a quarter of an hour straight ahead
the terrible results which would ensue if he kept
on garnishing his language with everlasting fire.
When the lecture was over, the patient submitted
his view of the case jimnbly. “Faix, yer river-
ence,” he said, “ and if it wasn’t for the hell busi
ness, ye moight be out in the counthry cuttin’ tay-
tree for a livin’, an’ so ye moight.” And then the
Benedictine father walked thoughtfully away
and felt thankful that there was a little healthy
sin left for him to reprove at a decent screw, paid
quarterly.
* * *
There is one young man in New Zealand
with his head screwed on the right way, anyhow.
He is a leading citizen in a three-pub. town up
North, and was recently interviewed at his place
of biz. by a young woman with a baby. To come
to the point, the fair creature wanted to know
what financial arrangements he proposed to make
on behalf of the baby in question. Not getting
a satisfactory answer she flounced off abruptly
and out of temper, and shortly afterwards the
citizen got a pressing invitation to appear at the
local court. The citizen thereupon waited on the
bank manager, and said: “We are ruined and
disgraced for ever. I shall have to summon you
as a material witness in the case.” The banker
swore worse than if the other had asked for a big
overdraft, and then (being a man of business)
said : What dees she want to settle it ! ” “£lOO,
not a penny less will she take.” The banker
wrote a cheque for £5O, and parted with notes to
that amount. With this sum in his pocket the
citizen next visited a lawyer and a doctor, from
each of whom he received a similar sum on con-
dition of dispensing with their presence and testi-
mony in the witness-box. Finally, he waited on
the baby’s mamma, settled her little claim in full
with £75, and with an equal sum in his pocket
clear profit on Ihe transaction ho went on his w»y
to tbke the chair at the Social Purity Society,




THE I.O. U. CALENDAR.


Society
The Australian young lady is respectfully
invited to plant her large cold feet on the follow-
ing painful fact and think it out. Tan boots have
come into fashion. They made their first appear-
ance at Flemicgton races last Saturday, and
being uglier than a bear, they naturally created a
sensation, and all the nice girls we know are
going in for them. Tan boots are as near as
possible of the same colour as the human foot
without any boot at all, and they have the
fiendish peculiarity of making a girl's ethereal
hoofs look the size of a grand pianc. When she first
puts them on she is filled with a desire to get out
and look at her feet from a considerable distance,
and, under these circumstances, the shock they
give to a male admirer can be baiely conceived.
And at this point w e wish to make a suggestion,
and when we have made it we are going to try to
get home to tea before we are hanged by a
frenzied mob of girls, and if vie escape we intend
to keep dark for some time. Why should
the little darlings wear any boots at all?
Or any stockings either ? Without
them their extreme ends would
be just the same colour as they
are now with the tan boots on,
and would look a lot smaller. Ar d
with regard to their corns and
bunions they might be delicately
shaded off with poult de soie and
bobinette insertion cut bias, also
ruohings and things, and a chil-
blain could be set off with a duck
of an arrangement in cream lace.
There really is nothing in life more
attractive than a corn with a frill
round it, and if the corn
is large and rid it produces
a very pretty effect against a background of
white or pale blue. In fact, so long as care is
taken to suit the trimmings to the complexion
o f the corn or bunion as the case may he, there
are no end to the lovely effects which can b 8 pro-
duced in this way. Just try it.
At Melbourne, on October 26th, Mr. J.
E. Syme, one of the proprietors of the Age, was
married to the daughter of Mr. David Blair.
* * *
The Mayoress of Sydney is getting up a
fete to be held in the Sydney Exhibition Building
on November 9th. Object, the ‘ ‘ Women s Fund,
which is our old friend, the superhuman cadge on
behalf of ladies who once held high positions, over
nsrain While they are trying to raise subscrip
tions, they will call it the “Women’s” Fund;
when they have raked in the cash, they will call
it the “ Queen’s” Fund again. A doll-show is
mooted on behalf of the same fashionable fad.
• * *
There is a Sydney official who, when you
buttonhole him in the street, invariably pulls out
his watch, and says, “Now, my dear fellow, dont
keep me long; I have an appointment with Lord
Carington in twelve minutes from now.”
* * *
Howard Paul has just told a good new
story of Artemus Ward. He and the gentle
showman visited a house one day where they had
to wait for some time in the drawing-room.
Artemus observed that his hostess, having been
fortunate enough to obtain the pasteboard of a
noble lord, had carefully displayed it oa the top
of the card-tray. In a second Artemus slipped it
under the carpet unobserved. When he next paid
a visit to that house the card was back in its
place, nicely scraped and cleaned, so he hid it on
top of the window-curtains. It was found again.
Then he tried behind the piano, and beneath a
flower-pot, but the precious card was always re-
surrected. At last he hid it In the family Bible,
and that fixed ihe family. The whole household
went into mourning.
* * *
A firm of piano-importers, in printing
some testimonials, state that, “ The Bishop of
Adelaide’s lady wrote; ‘ Much pleased with
quality and sweetness.’ ” We wonder what his
wife thinks of that, and what she said to the
Bishop of Adelaide’s lady’s gentlemen when she
got him alone. We are perfectly aware that this
jibe dates from the time of Methusaleh.
•» * *
All parsons are not preternaturaliy solemn.
In Melbourne there are two rough-and-tumble
fathers who put poker-gags into their sermons and
keep all the holy-water girls on the verge of suffo-
cation ; they have either to swallow six inches of
handkerchief or else laugh right out. One
of these papal disciples recently, while in the pul-
pit, described Moorhouse, late of Melbourne, as
“ a confounded fool,” and the other, a few
Sundays ago, denounced “ a stuttering tailor from
Fitzroy,” on account of his assurance in hanging
on to the tail of a papal bull, or otherwise med-
dling with the affairs of the Church.
» * *
It’s about time that Parliament pro-
hibited the naming of greyhounds and
thoroughbreds after ladies of distinction. For in-
stance, a society shudder runs down our spine
when we read how “ Lady Carington sweated in
her preliminary and came to grief at the first
jump.” And we thirst for the gore of a coursing
reporter who writes : “The next to claim alten
tion wa3 the up-country . . . (female dog) Nellie
Stewart.” Horror ! The hour may come when we
shall find Lady Loch described as a “ handsome
mare with a greasy heel,” or be advised to “ put
our shirt on Minnie Palmer.” Which reminds us
that the Heir Apparent (who happens to he bald
as an egg) won a good stake over George Frederick
for the Epsom Derby, because the royally-named
THE POWER BEHIND THE THRONE
colt was “ out of Princess of Wales,” and
happened to be running on the real George
Frederick’s birthday. On second thoughts we
don’t sea how that has much to do with Nellis
Stewart and the re3t of tha paragraph.
* * *
Noumea (Nev Caledonia) is said to be the
only civilised town on earth where there is no
such thing as a church. An old barn has done
duty for several years as a place of worship, but
lately some convicts broke into it and made such
a universal smash that the place is now not good
enough for a dog to pray in. The holy fathers
swore a little at their devotions when they heard
of this, and then they set to work to raise money
by means of balls, carnivals, horse-races, dog-
fights, and curious performances at which a priest
gets the audience to bet that he cant balance an
egg on the thin end and then does it right off and
scoops the pool, ancl it is trusted that a thief-proof
tabernacle will soon ariss.
* * *
City hostess to hush lacy : “Will you
have some soup, M<s, Cccka f oo ? ’ Mrs. C. : A
yery little, ma'am ; not more’n half a
And lo ! she was fair to look upon withal.
And it came to pass that she walked upon the
street which is called Pitt, and a pious man
turned aside and lifted up his voice and spake
unto her, “ Behold 1 How beautiful is the
weather.” “ Yea, so verily, it is,” answered the
maiden. “Did it not come to pass that I have
spoken unto thee in times that are past ? ” 1 Yea,
' indeed, that thou hast, for am I not thine own
■ handmaiden who washeth up thy pots withal ;
begorrah! ” (And as to the rest, is it not written.)
* • •
They are jusst now saying in Sydney that
when Parkes has time to start a fresh reform in
the N.S. W. Civil Service he might put in a proviso
that when a faithful old servant dies his accounts
shall all be buried with him. It is depressing to
go over the hooks and find out the shortages in
the cash of the departed,
* * *
Two members of a lately-deceased opera
company claimed the compliment of free admis-
sion to the Theatre Royal one night ever so long
ago. “ Who are you ? ” enquired litt'e “ Goody.'
“Two of the tenor's viotims,” replied toe claimants.
* » *
While on a stumping tour during the last
general election, a certain eminent statesman was
the guest of a wealthy retired g ocer out we it who
made a big effort to excel all previous dinners,
but ihe fates were unpropitious, the dinner was
spoilt and the cook got the sack. Time was
when corned horse and taters were considered
a banquet.
* * •
The Illustrated Australian News is an
eminently refined paper, a'd nothing of an un-
dressed or evening dress character is admitted to
its columns. In speaking of a recent wreck at
Point Lonsdale (Vic ), it states that the captain’s
wife “ rushed on deck in her reposing robe. ’
* * *
HEARD IN THE DIVORCE COURT.
Be the evidence never so “ spicy ”
Too utterly giddy and vicey—
It’s a thousand to one,
When the lawyers have done,
That the judge will ejaculate “ ni&i! ’
• * *
Somebody has discovered that the mcs-
quito’s earthly mission is to purify stagnant
water. Yet the varmint fritters away a brief
existence in poisoning human blood. Did ever a
mosquito touch cold water while there was a nice,
plump, new-chum on tap ?
* » *
What civilisa'ion is coming to in the Far
West. Back-blocks girl (at the Wombat Gully
ball): “D: nmy back hair! It’s coming
down.” Harmless and gentlemanly new-chum
(startled, but resolved to keep pace with Aus-
tralian customs) : “ The devil it is !”
* v * *
Some men are a hog. When Lord Brassey
was doing Victoria he found himself let in on one
occasion for a banquet, and he went through the
affliction with the high-born grace that marks the
B itish aristocracy under trying circumstances.
But there was one awful crisis at the fish stage of
the entertainment, and for a moment the peer
would have risen up for two pins, and said, “ This
is habsolootly offal; carry me hout,” or words to
that elf ct. The trouble was caused by the con-
duct of the M.L.A. for Skunk’s Misery, or some
other remote constituency, who arrived late, and,
as he took his seat, by ill-fortune observed Brassey
dipping in his finger glass. Then he was filled
with a sudden desire to show that he also ki ew
how to wave the gory shirt of
etiquette on the Australian
plains, and he requisitioned the
flabbergasted menial behind his
chair for a piece of soap. And
when he got it he stood up and
washed his face in his finger-
glass and finally he remarked
with a fatuous smile to his next neighbour that
there was nothing so refreshing as a sw.ll be'ore
a hearty feed. After that who can wonder that
Brassey left early, or that he remarked that night
to the partner of his life, “Elizer" always sup-
posing her name was Elizr, of c:u : ’se “lets get
out of this.” We would have said the same
words ourselves.
* * *
Here is an interesting little extract from
“The Peerage for the People” (published London,
1837) :—
CARRINGTON, Baron.
Name.—Robert Smith, D.C.L., E.R.S., F.S.E.
Motto.— Tenax et ftdelis— Covetous and sure.
Places and emoluments.—Captain of Deal Castle.
Church patronage —T vo livings.
“This Tory peer” (the Spectator remarks) “is
a man of probably Jewish origin, and was created
first an Irish and then an English peer by Mr.
Pitt, in consequence of his wealth. He assumed
the title of * Carrington ’ to create the impression
th'it he was connected with the ancient family of
Smith which formerly bore it, but with which he
had no other affinity than a common descent from
Adam. The fact is, he was a toad-eater of Pitt’s,
and his Parliamentary interest was worth having.
He returned the two members for Wendover, one
for Wycombe, and one for Midhurst.”
* * *
Queer advertisement from S.M. Herald :
“ Blank —ln memory of my dear husband, Thomas
Blank, who died at street, Sydney (she doesn t say when).
“ Dead but not forgotten. Inserted by his loving wife, M
W. Dash.”
From this, of course, it is obvious that the loving
wife” has married again. The advertisement,
no doubt, is intended as a ferocious onslaught
upon Mr. Dash, who hasn’t given her that duck
of a bonnet.
Governor Carington was at Redfern rail-
way station about 9.45 last Thursday morning,
and with his customary luck “ Black Maria " came
rolling up close behind him. There never was a
man who was haunted by a gaol-van as CariDgton
is. If he is going anywhere it comes into the
station jus'; half-a-minute after him ; if he is
coming home it is there also, to be handy, we sup-
pose, in case he wants a lift; it is always going the
same way as he is and just at the same pace, and
the poor Governor can’t shake it off. Somethiig
ought to be done, realiy.
* * #
A Sydney D T. advertisement: —
JTOR SALE.—To sea captains, merchants, or others. A
child's Caul. For pa-ticulais addr.si A.A.8., 'Post-
office, Mirdckvill).
Which goes far to prove that the large and
ancient family of fools is not yet entirely extinct.
■* * *
How those Kerristians love one another,
and, in particular, how the Kerristian in a buggy
loves the Kerristian on foot! The following letter,
written by Pastor M’Kernan, of Longford (Tas-
mania), to the Municipal Council in re the Sal-
vation Army will explain the rest: —
“ Can nothing he done to stop the disgraceful mob who
desecrate the Sabbath by their unseemly conduct, their
howling, shrieks, and hammering of a drum through the
public streets on Sundays, thereby partially stopping traffic
Dy frightening horses, as they did mine on Sunday afternoon
last ? Had I at the time had a good stockwhip I should have
used it with all the strength 1 have on those horrible
characters. Permit me to add that if 1 am again stopped in
the public street when on duty by such a mob I shall not be
leßponsible for the consequences.’
Meek old buggy Christian t
« # «•
Governor Carington is at the Cup. So ia
Sir Henry Loch.
* * *
Lady Augustus Loftus has, we are glad to
hear, received a bequest of £30,000,
* * *
An amateur company of high degree gave
a performance cf '‘New Men and Old Acres” at
Government House, Sydney, last week, and 400
guests attended. No one who could not trace his
descent back 500 years at least was admitted on
the stage ; even the prompter came in with the
Konkerer, and the stage carpenter wa?*descended
from Irish kings, and the property man was of
Roman origin. Of the actors themselves It can
safely be asserted that one, at all events, among
them had an aunt who had seen the Prince of
Wales, and it is rumoured that another had been
patted on the head by General Washington while
yet only a child. We have not got the exact date
of Washington’s death, but it wasn’t much over
100 years ago.
» • *
A grand military concert in aid of William
Roy, the disabled soldier of Rorke’s Drift, took
place in Sydney Exhibition BuildiDg on Thursday
last, under the patronage cf the Governor and all
the military and naval celebrities of N.S.W. A
long programme was gone through very success-
fully, and a good sum was realised.
• 1* *
The “ Champion Skeleton ” has just been
married at Bordeaux. He is a man. The
champion skeleton of N.S.W. is always a woman
Generally she keeps a boarding house, and tells
the company at dinner how she is so much shat-
tered that she hasn’t been able to take anything
but milk for five years.
* * *
The military and other fashionable circh s
of Sydney have been pervaded for a week past by
a cab. There are two sides to the story of this
cab. The lady who was inside is the wife of an
officer, and she states that she got into the han-
som at Government House at 11.30 p.m.—after
the private theatricals—and instructed her
charioteer to take her to the Victoria Barrackp,
where she and her husband live. Bat instead of
doing this he commenced galloping lsoße through
the universe, and when the lady put her hand up
through the trap and called upon him to atop, he
only squeezed her paw with great empressemenl
and put on more steam than ever. At last she
was rescued by a passing friend, and arrived
Lem) in a shaken condition at a late hour. The
cabb/, on the other hand, tells a hitler tale of
injured Innocence and eighteenpence. He was
driving along, he says, as harmless as a child,
when the lady got out at the invitation of a friend
and the two left together in another cab without
paying his fare—hut why, under such alleged cir-
cumstances, they should have neglected to pay
their fare is a mystery on which Mr. Jehu fails to
throw ary light. Then Jehu followed the lady
and her cavalier to the barrack*, where he was
sassed within an inch of his life, and very soon
his license was suspended for a month. Also, he
never received the one-and-six.
* # #
The following specimen of breezy in-
genuousness is taken from the Tasmanian;
News :
“WANTED, b? 3 Young Ladies, 3 Gentlemen, take
them u-j Show. “ A.H.J.," Post Office.”
It will be noted that they don’t want one gentle-
man, or two, or even four. It is three gentlemen
for whom these three little maids from school are
hungering, and they m9an to get them. And
when they have got them they will cart them
round to the show, and make the miserable vic-
tims buy them ice-creams, strawberries and'
cream, tarts and cream, tar Is without cream,
lollies, ribbons, and sich, and —- well, as a
sample of human guile and a harbinger of ruin,
there is nothing on earth to equal three little
maids from school, each attired in a white frock
with a red ribbon round the centre of her smiling;
form.
* * #
The Rev. Chalmers, New Guinea mis-
sionary, says that “ clothes are a source of mis-
chief to the natives, and lead on to rum and
whisky." A heavy coat will certainly generate-
an invincible thirst in hot weather, but even the-
slyest savage could not smuggle a nip into church
when attired only in a skimpy loin-cloth ; so we
suppose the chief mischief lies in the facilities a
long-tailed black coat affords for hiding the
bottle. We have often thought this as we looked
at the clergy from behind.
* *
There is a Volunteer Corps at Yarrabri.
Scotty the Whistler was appointed bandmaster at
the ruinous salary of £1 per week. Now, Scotty
was 10 years in the 93rd Highlanders, of which
regiment his father was for years bandmaster,
and Scotty is competent to play in or conduct any
hand. Having occasion to speak to the captain
about the way one of the trumpeters insisted on
varying the advance, he hinted that if the corps
went to Sydney they'd get the name of the Yar-
BEFORE THE CUP.
It was in the luncheon-paddock—we were taking
fizz and chicken,
Miss Mary Jones and I.
She looked at me so pleasant that I felt my pulses
quicken,
And sighed a little sigh ;
But the other chap came up, and O ! may heart
began to sicken
As the horses cantered by.
She asked him What would win it, and he men-
tioned an outsider
At thirty-three to one ;
Then she gaily turned towards me and I nestled
down beside her S
' I wasn't to be done,
So I said I “ fancied Mary,” and so wickedly I
eyed her
That the Victory was won.
You should have seen that fellar, he was mad as
any hatter —
Just didn’t he look black 5
(But to Mary and myself his wounded feelings
didn’t matter)
She whispered, “ Dearest Jack,
I’ll risk my little fortune on a colt from Parra-
matta —
You're the favourite I'll back.
Last week we made up our minds for that lovely Dinner
Set, thenin Br ay Bros’, windowin George-street, hut how dis-
appointed we felt on learning that it was sold. However, we
were satisfied with another, for these people carry a marvel-
lously large and beautiful assortment, and those who cannot
here be pleased must be very few indeed Thousands of
families have been furnished v ith Glass and China from
ih ;se places.*
FRECKLES. -These unsightly Buheutaneous discolora-
tions ar3 of two kinds—the “Summer” or temporary freckles
(Ephelis and the perm an ent variety (Lentigo). The former
is generally due to a darkening of the epidermis in small
oval patches (" Summer Freckles”), or extending over a
larger Burface (“Tan or Sunburn ), while permanent
Freckles (or Lentigo) are deeper seated, and remain even
after the epidermis is completely removed. Clements
Freeklebane is an infallible cure,, and will eradicatei the
worst case of Freckles without', njurmg the skin or com-
plexion Sold by all chemists. Wholesale, F. M Clements.
141 King-atreet Newtown.*
Ladle) would do well to attend the great sale of the season
now on at the London and Paris Outfitting Establishment
Mrs. ttoOiTHT*. SB ind 90 Klr.g.str'j<il.*
J. B. Pace’s and Co.’s Bangle Brand smoking Tobacco ie •
he most delicious smoke in the world, acknowledged by all
cennoisaeurs to be the most deliaata in flavour. Prepared so ■
that the combustion is perfect Burns out to the last
partiole with a pure white ash. Try it *


rabri Scrubbers, for even a cavalry-horse knows
he bugle calls. The skipper, who is more con-
versant with the yard-stick than the regulation
spit, said: “How dare you call us the scrub-
bers ? Compare us to horses ? You are dismissed
for insulting your officers! ” It seems, however,
that a tender had been put in by a tinker or shoe-
maker to do the job at “ half-a-james ” per week.
Sc if anyone wants to hear the latest improve-
ments and variations in drill-calls let him visit
Yarrabri,
* * *
Australian “satiety” is a hollow heartless
bedizened swarm of sycophantic snobs ani
snobbesses. We hit upon this opinion after read
ing the following flippant remark by the social
scribe in Melbourne Leader :
“ Apropos of the ball at Government House, it is very sad
to think shat Lily Brassey, whose magnificent costume at
the Jubilee Ball was so much admired, is no loag<=r to be
numbered with the living.’'
Observe the sorrow for —the magnificent costume !
Had Lady Brassey been the wife of plain Tom
Brassey, and dressed in a russet gown, somebody
would have mourned her. As it is the regret is
for the tinsel, the gaudy, glittering dress, the
shoddy title, the gilded purse, and not the woman.
There is a wholesome moral sticking out a mile
here, which future visitors of the De Bressi stamp
should take to heart.
a * *
Here’s a bit of cheap and nasty advice for
Cardinal Moran on the subject of his equipage
If His Eminence wishes to potc as a prince of the
old original Chris'ian Church, let him exchange
his present shabby-genteel tutn-out for a shan-
dridan drawn by two donkeys. If on the other
hand he would look, in the matter of convey-
ances, like a prince of the modern alleged Chris-
tian Church, let him get two well-groomed horses
and a varnished yellow chariot and a pair of be-
dizened flunkeys, and do the thing in style. At
present His Eminence’s turn-out reminds us of
that unsatisfactory drink known as “ dog’s-no3e,”
which is neither beer nor gin, but a cold and
flatulent and unsatisfying mixture of the two. It
is neither one thiDg nor another, and yet it seems
to be trying to be both.
* * *
Notwithstanding the exposure through the
evidence given before Dr. Creed s Committee, no
less than seventy-two quack or patent-medicine
advertisements appeared in a very recent number
of a certain Sydney paper.
* • *
An advertisement in a Sydney daily :
“ Lord Loftus's silver plate for sale, consisting of
sandwich-box, a present from the Queen; muffiners,
spoons, basket, &c,, See, , George-street,
N.” It was said at the sale of the ex-Govercor’s
effects that many of the presents were being
bought up by friends of the Loftus family. The
foregoing seemingly disproves that assertion.
* * *
Music may have charms to soothe the
savage, but you need to be very careful in select-
ing your savage. John Wiseman, of South Mel-
bourne, crippled a neighbour with an iron door-
stop, because he (the neighbour) would persist in
playing “ Roll Jordan” on a cheap harmonium.
* * •
EN PASSANT.
Upon my life’s dark way once gleamed a light
Such as a dream unfold 3 to fancy’s sight;
It came, and dazzling shone, and passed away
As lightning’s vivid intermittent play
Illumes the murky cloud with flashing ray,
Then leaves it to resume
A more than normal gloom ;
So, o’er my vision sped
The joy that her bright presence shed,
And thus her absence took the ray
That fitful lit my life’s dull gray.
J. M.
* *
Dr. Marshall Lang, of the Barony Church,
Glasgow, has consented to fill the pulpit of that home
of Sheolio cantankerousness, the Scots’ Church,
Melbourne, for four months! By-aud-bye when
the godly elders and Presbytery shall have killed
somemore clergymen, no Scotch parson will be game
to consent to infest the pulpit aforesaid for even
48 hours. Very soon,in “Scotland,” capital punish-
ment by hanging will be abolished, and hardy
criminals will be sent, after a full course of Cal-
vinistic instruction by a specially-appointed gaol-
chaplain, to expiate their offences by acting as
thumpers of that fatal drum-ecclesiastic in Collins-
street East.
* * *
At a northern (N.S. W.) telegraph office,
the other day, while the district inspector was do-
ing the usual inspection, the instrument was heard
to “call,” and presently a message flashed from a
chum at a neighbouring station : “ Mabel is here
and has consented to be mine.” The Inspector
was prompt—he wired back : “ You are fined for
permitting strangers in the office.”
* * *
Sydney is not the only place where jurors
go to sleep while trying a man for his life. Dur-
ing the trial of Conroy, charged with killing
Snooks at Perth (W.A,), one of the good men and
true had to be roused from a deep slumber during
the summing up of the j udge. “If I am dull, I
am at least precise,” remarked His Honour.
* * •
Mr. Hugh Arundell Trevanion, who has
just been sentenced to six weeks’ imprisonment in
London for blackening the eyes of his wife, daughter
of our Sir Daniel Cooper (the lady now seeks a ai-
vorce), is a nephew of the Earl of Strathmore. The
marriage, which was a runaway one, took place In
1882. There is a grisly modern story connected
with the Earldom of Strathmore. A recent suc-
cessor to the title, not long dead, was, it is alleged,
for many years kept immured in a duDgeon where
he was seen by none save his keepers. He was a
monster, just about seven feet high, and only par-
tially in human form. When he died, and was
succeeded by the present Earl, there were a few
hints about the matter in some of the London
papers.
* # *
It is reported that the Tichborne family
has just got clear of a depressing curse which has
hung over it for 91 years. Sometime, in the remote
long sgo, a certain Lady Tichborne appointed in
her will that an annual donation of bread should
he given to the poor, and if the same should ever
be discontinued the family mansion was to fall
about the ears of posterity, the family was to lose
its character for respectability, and the title would
never pass to a direct heir until a generation of
seven sons should be followed by one of seven
daughters, and the grandson of one of the seven
sons should marry the granddaughter of one of
the seven daughters. This was about" as compli-
cated a curse as the old lady knew how to con-
struct, and when the supply of bread was stopped
in 1796 it began to work admirably. The old
heraldic shanty of the Tichbornes fell in with a
sickening thud which scared seven years’ growth
out of the owner, and the poor man had seven
sons. His successor lived among the ruins of the
collapsed mansion and had seven daughters, ani
a'ter him five baronets died in quick succession and
lefo no direct heir. Also, the champion liar.
Orton, came over from Australia, and tried to
jump the claim of this distressed family. The
present Tichhorne, however, is a grandson of one
of the seven sons, and he has manfully tackled
the heavy end of the log by marrying the grand-
daughter of one of the seven daughters, so it is
hoped the blight will now ease up a little, and
that the crankiness of the old lady will cease
from worrying. But the chances are that it
won’t. Some new edition of tbe anathema will
probably come to light, and it will be discovered
that the curse won’t lift until a Tichborne with 18
children elopes with a bed-ridden old maid whose
great grandfather wa3 in the N.S.W. Parliament
and lent money on faded shawls at 200 per cent
For weaving tangled curses to trip up her succes-
sors the old woman of the Middle Ages had few
equals,
* * •
A Masonic ball which came off in the
Hobart Town Hall on 25th inst,, was held two
days sooner than previously arranged, in order
that the Earl and Countess of Carnarvon might
be present The company comprised a goodly
number of the eli'e ot Hobart, who arrayed them-
selves in their freshest war paint, no doubt In
hope of dancing with a real live earl. An attack
of the gout, however, prevented him attend-
ing, and his wife accompanied Sir Robert and
Lady Hamilton to the festive scene. Among the
many pretty toilettes worn, cream and pink pre-
dominated with the younger ladiea and black with
the chaperones. The Countess of Carnarvon wore
a costume of pale blue satin and brocTffi, with
diamond ornaments; Lady Hamilton was in
black velvet; Mrs. Alex. M’Gregor, pink mer-
vellleux ; Mrs. Hugh Murdoch, pale blue silk and
AT THE THEATRE.
DE JONES : “COOL, ISN’T IT?”
DE SMYTHE : “I SHOULD SAY SO! RA—TH—ER!”
tulle; Mis 9 May Butler, ivory merveilleux and
lace; Miss Marion Butler white merveilleux
with silk-embroidered lisse ; Miss Chapman, pink
net; Miss Wise, cream and scarlet; and Miss
Baynton, pink merveilleux.
* * *
The Victorian Government do not intend
to propose a permanent increase of Sir Henry
Lech’s salary. But they will ask Parliament for a
special grant to meet the dear Governor's extra
expenditure during Exhibition times. The con
templated Jubilee job has been put off for a year,
that’s all.
* * *
At a “Queen’s” Fund meeting, Primate
Barry addressed the ladies present as. “ the
higher and stronger sex.” What is he glviDg us ?
Women are frequently higher than men. In our
own experience we have seen four feet three o
discontented masher piloting five feet of maiden.
But the dear creatures are not stronger. They
are weaker than men but stronger than parsons,
and the parson can only get his living by flatter-
ing the women. By-and-bye, let us hope, woman
will see through the wile 3 of the parson, and will
go forth to help deserving poverty and toil with
all the forces which she now arrays on behalf of
gilded idlers wreathed in pious smiles.
* * *
Melbourne dressmakers are complaining
that Victorian beauty doesn’t trick itself out so
nobbily for Cup day as of yore. “ Mostly plain
gowns are worn,” wailed a voice in one of the
papers, “ and the dressmakers are suffering con-
siderably.” But the husbands of the race-attend-
ing fair won’t suffer. The dressmakers have had
a pretty long innings. It’s time tbe men had a
turn at the wickets.
* # *
Thelatesfc idea in Sydney suburban funeral-
ities, is a four-in-hand hearse.
* * #
What has been done with the money col-
lected to reward Mr. Stanley, C M.G., the Mount
Rennie hero ? Has that also gone to the
“Queen’s” Fund? Eh, Mayor Riley!
* * *
We read that “ the Queen’s sense of pro-
priety is such that she will not even allow the
mildest flirtation to exist among her servants. ’
Her Graoious has no sympathy with plebeian
modes of mas' ing. When she was a young and
ardent maiden she “spotted” her dear Albert,
proposed to him right out, and insisted upon
hurrying forward an unpopular marriage. No
you eg woman ever played a fraer hand ab the
game of Love than Victoria Regina. And now
when she sees a royal parlourmaid gaza admir-
ingly at a flunkey’s magnificent calves, the poor
girl is packed off with a month’s money and her
blighted affections.
• * *
There has been trouble down at Brighton
(Eng.) touching the carrying on ot the “ Army of
the Lord” in their own particular “ Glory Hole.”
This was a snug little crib where married ladies
find redemption with “ King Solomon,” “ Faith-
ful Abrabam,” ‘ Jonah,” and other oily old saints
who possess a special “ gift of tODgnes," and don’t
want husbands interfering with Divine service.
That’s how the real trouble arises. Directly the
ladies have all arrived “King Solomon” shows
his wisdom by ordering the door to be locked and
barred. Husbands come hammering away out-
side, but the Army just cover up the keyhole, and
ask the Lord to put their enemies to confusion.
At latest dates the local Bench had decided that
the public must have free access to “ Glory
Holes.” so as barring the door is the very first
article of this new faith, it seems in a fair way to
burst up entirely.
* * *
A few weeks ago a young German miner
came down from Charters Towers to Sydney with
what he considered a valuable property for sale.
He put it in the hands of a promoter, who got the
requisite syndicate ready for the working of the
mine, should a favourable report be received from
an expert. So sanguine was its owner of the
richness of the reef that he left the purchases to
name their own man, and let him examine for
himself. After three or four days’ waiting, down
came the wire. ‘ Don’t touch anything on Boat-
swain's Creek,” the locale of ths mice. Ot course
this burst up the company, and when poor W
was shown the telegram, he offered to give his
watch to pay some small loans he had got on tfce
strength of his prospects, and on this being kindly
refused, he went away without a word. Next
morning he was arrested by the police for com-
mitting an assault, when it was found that he was
quite mad, and in (his state the poor fello
has remained ever since.
* * *
For ladies only. Let them diligently pe-
ruse the following, as upon it may depsnd their
eternal welfare
Sydney Omnibus Co. took £70,000 in the
last year, all In threepenny-bite.
Berry, the English hangman, was recently
arrested for threatening to shoot a man. He has
apparently got tired of hanging them.
William Gregg, a blind man, was recently
fined for drunkenness at Perth, W.A. The con-
stable swore without a smile that William was
blind drunk.
How is it that the Port Jackson s. s. Co.
have given another name to that, venerable
steamer the Emu ? Wouldn’t it have been better
to change the steamer instead of merely changing
its name?
The business of the licensed publican must
be in a particularly queer street just now in
N.S.W. One firm of hotel-brokers in the
city of Sydney advertise that they have from
eight hundred to a thousand hotels at all prices
for sale.
“ ‘Pharoah’s Daughter’ will be in the
colonies shortly,” runs a startling ad. in the S.M.
Herald. But we are beyond such startlers. For
weeks we anticipated the advent of “ Marie
Brizard,” and when she came she turned out to be
a brandy 1 “ Pharoah’s Daughter” will probably
be a corn-cure.
Mr. J. B. Fairfax, of the S. M. Herald,
calmly presided at a lecture on “ Miracles ” the
other night. The greatest modern miracle we can
imagine would be an issue of the Herald with-
out a two-column report of a Sunday-school tea-
meeting.
Constable Day, ef Waitara, N.Z , owned
a fine St. Bernard. Someone wrote to the local
paper preferring a complaint against the police-
man’s canine, and suggesting that he should be
forced to dispose of it. The editor, in a footnote
(o the letter, said that “ as every dog had its day,
he did not see why every Day should not have his
dog."
A German shot himself in a Melbourne
pub. last week. The late lamented one’s landlord
feelingly told the jury—“ There was no eccen-
tricity or peculiarity about him. He was pressed
for money.’’ It is satisfactory to know that a
man may dissipate his last shilling without neces-
sarily beirg eccentric or peculiar. No, by
Heavens ! we are not mad.
The old Rainbow Hotel, at the corner of
Swanston and Little Collins streets, Melbourne,
which has long been known as the haunt of Lais
and Phryne, is about to he pulled down, and the
new premises of the Temperance Insurance
Society erected in its stead. So'the old fashion
changeth.
Dear Bulletin, - A committee of the
whole house, or rather camp, under the bridge at
Walgett have asked me to obtain your opinion as
1o whether Sheol” is now obscene language.
For instance, if I tell my mate “I'll see you in
Sheol before I bake this time,” can I be lumb:-red ?
I remember when sulphur matches vere the only
sort in Adelaide, and a box went off in a btozer’s
pocket. His remark, on feeling and smelling the
case, was :“ By crimes lin H—r— already 1 ” He
was fined five peg. Had he used “Sheol,” would
he have received a tract and a caution instead ?
Yours ecclesiastically, The Murrumbidgee
Whaler.
Editor Bulletin,— ln answer to the letter
of “Practical Shearer,” no doubt it will always
tike as many men to shear a station with Wolee-
ley’s machine as with the hand shears, but your
argument and mine is that Ihe men using the
machine need not be skilled workmen, while the
old original shearer had to be one. “Practical
Shearer” says that a man must know how to hold
a sheep properly before he can use either the
machine or the shears. So he must, but a man
who knew how to hold a sheep was no more a
i hearer in the old times than a man who knew
how to drag his wife about by the hair was a
hairdresser. He had a vast amount to learn
besides, while with the machine he must know
how to hold a sheep, and nothing more. Conse-
quently the new shearer will be practically an
unskill 2d workman, and will be paid as such to
his great loss —Your?, The Banjo.
St. Pe'er was dozing, his key3 hanging idly at his side, He
had had so little to do of lat? that he was actually
getting lazy, and it was with many expressions of disgust
that he rote to answer a timid knock at the gates
1 Who’s there?’ he asked as he fumbled over his keys in an
endeavour to find th« ruht one.
‘It is I —Mabel Sweet,’came the reply ‘I want to come
in.’
St. Peter chuckled softly. ‘ Of course you do,’ he said. ’So
does every one; but they don’t all get in, nevertheless ’
He swung the gates open, and took his station in the
middl jof the open space, thus effectually barring all pas,
sage.
1 Oi ve an account of vo urself,’ he com manded. ’ What have
you i een doing upon earth?’
Please Ss. Peter,’sheresponded timidly, ’I haven't been
very good.’
'I suppose not,’he said terselv. ‘But tell me what you
have done.’
‘ One day I eloped with a soldier.’
‘Did, eh?' queried St. Peter, with a pitying glance
‘ That’s bad—very bad ; but I don’t know but that it carried
punishment with it.
‘ Oh. it did,’ she exclaimed with emotion,
‘ Well then, what next?’
‘ I was very thoughtless, St. Peter,’ she exclaimed apolo
getically—' very thoughtless, indeed. Why. do you know I
carelessly split his head o.en with an axe when I got tired cf
fcim.'
‘ That was thoughtless,’commented the Saint. ' I rrally
don't see how I can let you in.’
‘Please Ss. Peter, don't be hard on me,' she pleaded. ‘ It
was all because of my thoughtless nature. Why, in the same
way, I dropped my two children tut of the s oond-story
window when the? woke me up with their crying ’
‘Dear me, I wish you had been a little more thoughtful,’ he
muttered.
‘So do I,’ she replied. 'And oh ! I almost forgot. On
another occasion I neglected to return a few hundred pounds
that my sister entrusted to me.’
‘ H’m! A had case—a bad case ! ’ mused the guardian of
the gates. ‘ There is really no chance of your getting in.
suppose you wore those decollete costumes, too?’
1 Oh, y^s'
* Dear me ! It is very sad. I would like to let you in, but
I can’t. I—oh, stop ! Perhaps, you had some one great
virtue that would counterac', all the evi's?’
‘ I don't know, I'm sure,’ she pondered. ‘ I can t think of
anything, except—except I always said ‘ thank you,’ when a
man gave up his seat to me in the tram.’
An expression of ecstatic rapture passed over St. Peter’s
face. ‘ Come in ’ he said, bowing low 'Gabriel, give the
ladv a front seat, and order her a harp of solid gold, studded
with diamonds.’
Claremont, Darlinghurst Road, Sydney,—A Private Medi-
cal and Surgical Home, established by Dr. Tarrant, for the
reception and systematic treatment of patients of both sexes
The residents, who are provided with separate bedrooms ■
derive the great advantages of a constant med'ctl super-
vision with the care and attention of a trained nursing staff
For particulars apply to the Lady Superintendent.*


PERSONAL ITEMS
Mr. Dailey, we arj sorry to hear, is again
very ill.
David Gaunson says that “ teetotallers as
a rule are shams.
George Bland Humble is the name of the
Fremantle (W. A.) town clerk.
The Tichborne claimant has settled down
as a 3001 b. boss of a New York grog-saloon.
The chief of the staff of one of the Mel-
bourne papers objects to the reporters wearing
gloves.
Beak O’Malley Clarke, to witness in Police
Court: “Will you please keep silence and answer
questions 1 ”
Miss Josephine O’Brien, the well-known
soprano, was one of those saved from the wreck
of the Cheviot.
On dit, that Albert Edward, though he has
an income of £200,000, was well nigh bankrupted
by hi 3 Jubilee expenses, and has had to borrow
coin.
WHAT MAY HAPPEN TO A MAN IN AUSTRALIA
(WHO DSINKS WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS).
1. Murphy is real hard up. Pawns his coat, must have some drink.
2. He is a firm believer in Wolfe's Schnapps. Buys a large bottle, and is careful that he gets the
genuine article and no imitation.
3. Words cannot express his bliss when he finds inside the label one of those Pound Orders he has
so often heard of.
4. Reckons his luck's in. So off he starts for Tattersall’s. A ticket please for the £10,000 Sweep
on Melbourne Cup.
5. When luck comes to a man it sticks to him, he drew DUNLOP, the winner.
6. Murphy as we saw him last coming down Collins-street.
George Collins Levey has been appointed
Commissioner to thB Barcelona Exhibition of 1888.
Nats for G.C.L,
la England, Howard was the name of a
philanthropist. In Australia, ib is the name of
a hangman. We live at the Antipodes,
ON FRAWNCIS HABIGLE.
They say he has no heart, but we deny it.
He has a heart: he gets his speeches by it !”
There are over 40 applicants for the post
of Australian agent of the N.Z Press Association.
Headquarters will be at Sydney ; screw, £lOO per
annum,
It is now a generally recognised fact that
it is not the proper caper far a N.S.W. judge to
let his butcher's bill run on for more th 'n eighteen
months,
“Honour does nob consist in paying
twenty shillings in the pound.” Certainly not.
Honour consists in gulling the public into paying
it for you.
The wicked Wickham, of Auckland, says
that R. S. Smythe is called “ The Much
Travelled,” because he has been travelling on the
Press so long,
Virtue triumphs. There were 40 grey
headed or bald-headed men in the last NZ.
Parliament. There are scarcely a dozen in the
present House.
There are in Bathurst, N.S.W., three
landed proprietors whose united ages tot up 220
years, and whose united cheques would tot up
two millions sterling.
A lady who was taken to hear a debate in
the Victorian Legislative Assembly, the other
night, said she never saw such a lot of plain men
assembled together before.
Candelo (N.S.W.) Union tries to prove
that Queen Victoria is descended from the
children of Israel. It is all very well to foisb her
Gracious on to ihe Hebrews, but whoever knew a
Hebrew that could live in Scotland I
The German Crown Prince has refased a
| bequest, made him by a Frenchman, of several
J millions of francs. The Frenchman should have
tri 3d Unser Fritz’s mother-in-law.
One of the multitudinous heroes of the
Crimean war lives at Cootamnndra (N.S.W.). His
name is Steele. Steele is a good name for a
soldier whan you spell it correctly.
In a recent civil action in a N.S.W.
Assizs Court, the plaintiff and defendant had both
been bushrangers and served long smtences. The
jury did not agree. They were evenly divided.
There is a man now living in a neighbour-
ing colony who escaped lynching in California
through “the devotion of his wife,” who, having
gained admission to the gaol, exchanged clothing
with him.
Three of the new Canterbury (N.Z.) mem-
bers of the House of Representatives—Reeves,
Perolval and Rhodes—are less than 30 years of
age. The trio are lawyers, and were eduoated at
Christ’s College, Christchurch, N.Z.
Now that Mathew Henry Stephen is on
the Bench, and his uncle George Milner Stephen,
of red flannel and faith-healing renown, out of
the colony, William Bede Dailey, P.C., Q C., is
“ father” of the New South Wales Bar.
A correspondent writes : —Councillor J. W.
Fleming, of Brunswick (Vic.), is not the oldest
Australian native. He has, however, the reputa-
tion of being the oldest Victorian native. His
genius soars no higher than fowl-fancying.
According to all accounts the Duchess of
Edinburgh would be an unwelcome guest at a
shilling restaurant, After the fair young feeder
ha 3 “ scarfed ” everything that comes handy she
finishes up by sucking the gravy from her finger,
tips.
It is said that Rider Haggard conceived
the idea of “She” from hearing De Vivo talk of
De Muraka’s wonderful vitality. De Murska is 60
years bid, and the notes of her voice ring clear
as those of a girl. By the way, the oantatrice is
now in ’Frisco.
TO ALFRED BENNETT, Esq.
Bennett, you lack executive skill,
And that’s a fact, and so no fiction,
Your Evening News with rot you fill,
We’re not blest with your Bennett-diction.
Old Jack Williams, the (now retired) Vic-
torian detective, was once being cross-examined
by the late B. C. Aspinall in a case of burglary,
“ When I went into the parlour,” said Williams
“ I saw an 'ole made in the calling,” “ Dear me !”
exclaimed Aspinall, “ what on earth was she doing
there ? ”
Lord Brassey’s secretary denies that Lady
Brassey died through jumping from the Sunbeam
while in delirium. The fact that Lady Brassey’s
body was summarily buried at sea instead of, as
might have bean expected under the alleged cir-
cumstances, being taken to England in the yacht,
seems somewhat strange.
What may happen to a man in Australia if
he drinks enough “ tanglefoot.” Edward Dwyer
“ medical studenb,” sent to gaol for vagrancy at
Melbourne, arrived in Victoria from Dublin four
years ago. He gradually developed into a hulking
hopeless loafer, and on one occasion recently he
Ijpoke a man's leg out of sheer bravado. On
another he ate a live kitten for a pot of beer.
Hon. W. J. Larnach, late Minister of
Mines in the Stout-Vogel Government, is a pep-
pery old cuss. SpeakiDg to the electors of Penin-
sula, Otago, recently, he called the Opposition
candidate, Mr. Begg, ‘ 1 a sanguinary perverter of
the truth, and Mr. Begg could have his opinion
of him in two words if he liked."
Another German pauper has arrived in
England, Mrs. Battenberg having, according to
the cableman, given birth to a “ daughter.” At
the present rate of one a year, this Royal German
Princeling business is an awful problem for the
English toiler. It begins tb rival in tremendous-
ness the Australian rabbit-question,
The Melbourne Spiritualists number among
them some rather remarkable men. Mr. Deakin
represents politics; Mr. James Smith, of the
Argus, and Mr. Charles Bright, of the Age, litera-
ture ; Herr Reimers, the violincellist, art ; Mr.
Stanford, of the Singer Co., commerce; and Mr.
H. G. Turner, of the Commercial Bank, finance.
The late Judge Fellows, of Victoria, was
a constant contributor to the funds of the Church
of England at Queenscliffe, where he had a marine
residence. On one occasion when he was going to
England for some months, he handed a large pill-
box to the churchwardens inscribed, “ Two to be
taken every week.” The box contained sovereigns.
Scene : Certain Sydney Court. Old man
gets into witness box and expectorates on the
floor. His Honor : “Have a care, old man, have
a care. Be a little more respectful in your—ha
hum—bearing, while heah. Otherwise—ha hum —
we shall have to —ha hum —send you to a place
where —hum ha —you will learn to —ha hum —be
a little more respectful in your—hum— demeanah.’
The friends of Mr. Lockhart Morton failed
to run a Swing Gate Bill through the Victorian
Assembly. The bill purposed to empower him to
charge a royalty upon every gate used in Victoria
now, 40 years after their first appearance in the
colony! Whatever may be the strength of Mr.
Morton’s claim, this Bill deserved its fate. If it
had passed, we might have expected Caxton’s
descendants to agitate for a printing patent.
The editors of several comic papers in
Vienna have promised not to publish any more
ugly pictures of the Sultan of Turkey because his
Majesty has been muoh mortified at the carica-
tures appearing of late. Our Sultan, Parkes, also
feels mortified occasionally, and The Bulletin
promises to spare his feelings on condition that he
gets shaved. If 'Enry would consent to Bhow the
world what manner of man he really is , but
the thought is too horrible.
At one of the numerous meetings of
creditors recently,held in South Australia, a pious
person of saintly aspect offered the magnificent
dividend of Is. 2d. in the £. “ Gentlemen,” he
said, with an unctuous snuffle, “ I cannot pay
you any more in this world, but I hope to give
you the balance in the next," “Mr. re-
plied an unfortunate creditor, “I for one, will
accept the dividend you offer, but if you expect
me to come groping about after you in hell for the
balance, you have mistaken your man.”
George M‘Callagh Reid, editor of the
Auckland Bell, once, by way of a joke, pub-
lished a Btory cf his own invention (but attribut-
ing it to the Levant Herald), giving an account
of the discovery of Noah's Ark on Mount Ararat
and the purchase of that ancient edifice by a syn-
dicate of American tourists who happened to be
at Damascus at the time. The story was clipped
by sensation-hunting sub editors in almost every
country in the world, and George has a wonder-
ful collection of theee clippings with the sub-
editorial comments thereon. An American funny
paper published the additional intelligence “ that
the identity of the discovery with Noah’s Ark has
been clearly established by the finding of a spot of
grease in Ham’s bunk "—whereupon a religious
organ (which apparently goes the entire animal on
the truth of the yarn) takes its humorous contem-
porary to task for ridiculing holy things, and for
seeking to oast doubt on a circumstance that so
conclusively proves the truth of the Mosaic ac-
count of the Deluge.
The “ Moldacot” Sewing Machine is a marvel of in-
genuity and a wonder to those who have used it. A perfect
Sewing Machine, complete in all details. Not larger than an
ordinary pipe and the price 17s. 6d. Without precedent. See
it and be convinced.*
QRIISBION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT,
LAST NIGHT BUT ON a
of
Shakespeare’s Great and Glorious Comedy.
TWELFTH TWELFTH TWELFTH
NIGHT, NIGHT, NIGHT,
Or WHAT YOU WILL.
LAST NIGHT BUT ONE
of
MISS ESSIE JENYNS as VIOLA.
LAST NIGHT BUT ONE
of
W. J. HOLLOWAY as MALVOLIO.
The Box Plan at Nicholson’s mnslo warehouse.
Bus. Manager for W. J. Holloway, W. H. Manning.
MONTY BROWNE. Manager.
Theatre royal
Under the Direotlon of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrore.
Lessee, Mr, Sam. Lazar.
LAST NIGHT BUT THREE
of
“ HARBOUR LIGHTS.”
“ HARBOUR LIGHTS.
Prices as usual.
Tickets for all parts of the house at East way’s Hotel.
Alhambra music hall
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith,
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING at 7.30,
GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
Of 38 Performers, 38 Performers.
Under the Conductorshlp of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Sittings as Usual.
BOTANY. BOTANY. BOTANY.
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON AT 3.30.
GRA.ND SACRED AND CLASSICAL CONCERT
of Well-known Artists,
Artistically and Numerically the Strongest,
Under the Conductorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, la. Children free.
FRANK SMITH, Director,
ROW’S
Dandelion Bite.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken two
or three times a day; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Disease will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals, diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the Quantity twice a day.
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIYER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Rowe and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S. England.
Port Adelaide, October BO 1886.
Gentlemen,—l hae great pleasure in recom-
mending Row’s Dan elion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with Liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
all who suffer from Liver complaint to try them,—
Yours,
O. R. UPJOHN, J.P.
Tamworth, August 21, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received by
the undersigned:—
“ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DA.NDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“lam glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, Dear Sirs, .
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“ Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.
TUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW S
STERNE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others, and equalled by none.
FACTS SPEAK LOUDER THAN WORDS.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen :
STATUTORY DECLARATIONS.
“I, GEORG IS HEWETT, do hereby solemnly
and sincerely declare as follows :
“ That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so-called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water,
and I hope others suffering from the same’ com-
plaint will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
215 Pitt-street.
“ Declared at Sydney, August 12, 1881, before
me,
(Signed) Wm. Henderson, J.P.”
Then try them, and ask for ROW’S STEANE'S
BITTERS, prepared solely by
EDW. ROW and COMPANY.
Row’s Steane’s Wine
is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex
or children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
Row’s Steane’s Wine.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. YOUNG LADIES can take
this when suffering from general debility. It’s
only a pure Tonic, Try it.
READ CERTIFICATE RESPECTING ITS
PURITY.
“ Having carefully examined a bottle of ROW’S
‘STEANE'S ’ WINE, manufactured by Edward
Row and Company, I consider them a very whole-
some tonic, suitable for persons suffering from
weak digestion, being perfectly free from any in-
jurious chemicals, too often used in such prepara-
tions. They should become a favorite drink in
these warm climates.
(Signed) JOHN M’KILLOP, analyst.
“Sydney, December 23, 1884.”
Row’s Steane’s Wine
has also weaned many persons from the excessive
use of ardent spirits.
TEETOTALLERS will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the oravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
TRY THEM.
HOTEL KEEPERS ALL KEEP
ROW’S ASSORTED BITTERS,
CONTAINING
ROW’S STEANE'S BITTERS,
ROW’S YOU’LL DO BITTERS,
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS,
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS,
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS,
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS,
ROW’S ASSORTED WINES
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
SOLE PROPRIETORS,
Edward Bow & Company,
13, 45, 47, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


Centrauy
SITUATED
» AND
ACCESSIBLE
TOAU.THE LEAOINC
BUSINESS
HOUSES
IN THE
CITY
DANIELL'S IMPERIAL HOTEL
RISBAN
i
THE MOST COMFORTABLE
"oT[[
SOUTH
OFTHE
EQUATOR
t
22
m
ia&zz
l/ML.
M
t.
r
w,.
S 3
8
iSKiiiiiiuiiiii
DAN
cX
LL
sra
THREE MINUTES
DRIVE
FROM THE
RAILWAY
STATION
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
WITH AIL THE
MERCANTILE
HOUSES
BANKS&c
Private Suites with Luggage Room attached for the convenience of Ladies, Ladies’ Drawing-room, with a mapificent view of the Brisbane River and
One-Tree Hill, Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hot and Cold Plunge and Sbower Baths. ®IT COMMERCIAL ROOM.
Gentlemen's Smoking, Reading, and Corresponding Room. All Letters and Telegrams applying for Apartments will receive prompt attention. C. 11. DANIELL.
PAIN’S GRAND FIREWORK DISPLAYS
AND
ILLUMINATIONS.
PAIN’S GRAND FIREWORK DISPLAYS
AND
ILLUMINATIONS.
THIRD GRAND DISPLAY
on the occasion of
THE PRINCE OF WALES’ BIRTHDAY.
THIRD GRAND DISPLAY,
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9,
IN THE DOMAIN IN THE DOMAIN
N THE DOMAIN IN THE DOMAIN
In aid of
LADY CARRINGTON’S QUEEN’S FUND.
Under the distinguished Patronage of
IllS EXCELLENCY LORD CARRINGTON,
G.C.M.G.,
and
LADY CARRINGTON.
A GRAND SPECIAL MAMMOTH DISPLAY
on the occasion of
THE PRINCE OF WALES’ BIRTHDAY,
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9,
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9.
IN THE DOMAIN.
A GRAND SPECIAL
MAMMOTH PROGRAMME
Embracing an immense number of
SPECIALTIES
Is now in active courso of preparation for the
celebration of
THE PRINCE OF WALES' BIRTHDAY,
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9.
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9,
PAIN’S GRAND FIREWORK DISPLAYS
AND
ILLUMINATIONS.
PAIN’S GRAND FIREWORK DISPLAYS
AND
ILLUMINATIONS.
JAMES PAIN.
ROSEHILL RACING (LUB.
WEDNESDAY (Prince of Wales’ Birthday)
9th November,
AND
SATURDAY,
12th November, 1887.
A.J.C. RULES.
FIRST DAY.
QUEEN’S PRIZE,
80 sovs. For Maiden Horses, lj Mile.
HURDLE RACE HANDICAP,
100 som Two Miles.
PRINCE'S GIFT,
Sweep 3 sovs., 125 sovs. added. 1 Mile 3 Furlongs.
DISPOSAL STAKES,
50 sovs. Winner sold for £6O. 7 Furlongs,
BIRTHDAY HANDICAP,
75 sovs. 6 Furlongs.
SECOND DAY.
JUVENILE STAKES,
For 2-year-olds. 100 sovs. 5 FurloDgs.
SELLING HURDLE RACE
100 sovs. 2 Miles.
ROSEHILL HANDICAP,
150 sovs. 1 Mile.
HANDICAP STEEPLECHASE,
125 sovs. 2 Miles.
CORINTHIAN WELTER
100 sovs. 1 Mile.
Entrances to close Monday, 21th October. 1 sov.
Weights published about 31st October.
Gates, Booths, &c„ to be sold 31st October.
1 For full particulars see Programme to be had at
Rosehill Racing Club Office, 65 Castlereah-street
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees Messrs. Rignold and Allison.
Doors open 7.; Performance 7.45 ; Carriages 11.
Sixth Week and Continued Success of the
THE GREAT PLAY OF THE YEAR 1887,
entitled,
HELD BY THE ENEMY
HELD BY THE ENEMY.
Prices, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s and Co.’s.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, November I, 1887.
TENDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the following PL BLIG
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a die of whloh is kept at
every post-offlce in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten
ders are opened, and the name of the suooessfu
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unleßß
the terms of the notloe are Btrictly complied with.
The Government does not bind Itself to aooept
the lowest or any tender.
Construction of Wharf, &c., |
Ironwork) L_
JOHN SUTHERLAND,
A G-ood Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL,
LARRY FOLBY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the oomfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
Bee future announcements.
Instruction given In the noblest of manly sports
eaoh day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the sclenoe of self-defenoe.
Classes now open,
When in Sydney, if you miss Foley’s you
h ave not seen the city.
df
ofjSydnetJ,
-j JENOLAN 'CAVES. BLUE MOUNTAINS,k
316XE0RCE. SI between Hunter ST«C.P.O*
•DL
pnin
Iu«
A HANDS OMK
GOLD WATCH
GIVKN AWAY.
This is a genuuie
offer, andnohumbug.
Send address for full parlicu’ars to
R. B. JONES,
P.O. Box 570, Sjdrey.
BLACK’S LftßlUi BUmuT
5 CORRIDOR, TATTERSALL’S BUILDING?,
Hunter and Castlekeagh Streets,
Sydney.
Householders, Hotelkeepers, Stations, supplied
twelve months for ONE GUINEA. Servants
names registered FREE.
QXJEEISrS3L-A.INT 33.
Millar, carter, and co.,
Shipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office.—227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency.—John Bros , 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency.—T. H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers. Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Qaeens’and.
A Blessing in every Family.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT,
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers.
In all the ordinary ailments of humanity their beneficent
action is at once recognised.
Fullest directions are sunnlied for their use in every disease-
IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London.
£2T Purchassers should look to the Label on the Boxes and
Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-street London, they
are spurious.
SW ALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Maker,
• 296 Pitt-street.
sat;
: v...
§.VV/iLOCfi.TFN' f Tgfip/juuN Ousmn rnp Fiac. Mnnca
296 PjttV'
Marquees on Hire.
Vital Questions !!!!
Ask the most eminent Physician
Of any school, what is the best thiDg in the
world for quietirg and allaying all irritation cf the
nerves, and coring all forms of nervous complaints,
giving natural, childlike refreshing sleep always ?
And they will tell you unhesitatingly
“ Some form of Hops !!! ’’
CHAPTER I.
Ask any or all of the mo3t eminent physicians
“ What is the best and only remedy that can be
relied on to cure all diseases of the kidneys and
urinary organs ; such as Br'ght’s disease, diabetes,
retention, or inability to retain urire, and all the
diseases and ailments peculiar to Women ’’ —
And they will tell you explicitly and emphati-
cally “ Bvchu."
Ask the same physicians
“ What is the most reliable andsurestcurefor all
liver diseases or dyspepsia ; constipation, indiges-
tion, biliousness, malaria, fever, ague, &c.,” and
they will tell you :
Mandrake or Dandelion ! ! !!
Hence when these remedies are combined with
othors equally valuable,
And compounded into Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters, such a wonderful and mysterious cura-
tive power is developed, which is so varied in its
operations that no disease or ill-health can possibly
exist or resist its power, and yet it is
Harmless fcr the most frail woman, weakest in-
valid or smallest child to use.
CHAPTER 11.
“ Patients
“Almost dead or nearly dy mg"
For years, and given up by phys’cians, of Bright’s
and other kidney diseases, liver complaintp, severe
coughs, called consumption, have been cured.
Women gone nearly crazy !!!!!
From agony of neuralgia, nervousness, wakeful-
ness, and various diseases peculiar to women.
People frawn out of ship’ f-om excruciating oangr of rheu.
matism, inflammatory and chronic, or suffering from scrofula"
Erysipelas
“ SaUrheum, b’ood poisoning, dyspepsia, mdigestion aEd
in fact, almost all diseates frail ”
Nature is heir to
Ha\o been cured by Dr. Soule’s Hop Bitters, p»oof of whrh
can he found in every neighborhood ia the known world.
£2T None genuine without a bunch of green hops
on the white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown in
the bottle. Beware of all the vile poisoous stuff
made to imitate the above.
This BEER
awarded at
Adelaide Ex-
hibition First
Prize Gold Medal.
Cooper & McLeod’s
India Pale
Ale.
ejdi nbuegh.
R. CUNYNGHAME, Bond-street, Sydney.
In bulk
and can.
[lash BEER
in the Market.
drawn ty all
If: 0 din g Hotela‘
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
THE BRIGHTON OE 3ST-S.W.
HAVING been thoroughly renovated this Favourite Summer Resort is now replete with all con-
veniences, and prepared to receive Families for the season Special Rooms for single Gents.
Elegant Suites and Single Rooms with either Private Table or 1 able de Hole. Transient visitors will
receive every attention. The Table is supplied with the Best the Market affords. The Cellars stocked
with the Best Wines and Liquors procurable. Large Commodious Dining Room, suitable for Private
Suppers and Dancing. For Terms and Particulars apply
MRS. KILMINSTEE,
CLARENDON HOTEL,
OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.


“TWO FOR A SHILLING.”
SMYTH (smoking a fine full-flavoured Havana), to his friend Smythe: “HAVE A CIGAR? "
SMYTHE : “THANKS AWFULLY.” Lights w [?]ed and is disgusted Then, with abatement
of gratitude in his tone) : “HOW MUCH DO YOU PAY FOR THESE CIGARS!”
SMYTH: “TWO FOR A SHILLING. THIS COST NINEPENCE; YOURS WAS THREE-
PENCE.”
H,The Egyptians, we read in the S.M.
Herald, “ have commenot d onion-growing on a
most extensive scale.” This is not (as some per-
sons erroneously suppose) for the purpose of swell-
ing “ the tearful river of the eye,” but in order
that they may be able to know their countrymen in
the darkness which periodically o’erspreads their
benighted land. They should next plant out a
few hundred square miles of tripe, with some 610-
acre blocks of pepper ; and if these fail they should
give civilisation best.
The Mining Boom.—An extensive sale is
reported at a certain mining institution in Syd-
ney—namely the furniture and fittings.
A caretaker was wanted the other day for
a Christchurch (N Z) school, and among the
mighty host of applicants for the 30s. a week
billet were a quack doctor, a Chinaman, a Maori,
an engineer, a policeman, an “honourable,” an
heir to a peerage, a lawyer, three widows, a
curate, an undertaker, and an ex-convict.
THE prompt use of St. Jacobs oil as a household
remedy has dodged many adootor’sbil 1 , and
disappointed many an aspi ’ant for others people’s
shoes.
THERE is no cure in the world for rheumatism
to compare with St. Jacobs oil. It stand
alone unrivalled.
JjIUSEL OIL AND ALCOHOL.
ThB author of the quaint conceit that “there are
more ways of killing a cat than by choking it with
butter” is dead, and in his placo we have quite a
little army of chemists, brewers, analysts, and
consumers teUing us how a somewhat similar
conclusion can be arrived at by experimenting on
the human race with colonial beer. One writer
admits and bemoans the existence of fusel oil iu
i", while another hinges his arguments on the
acknowledged presence of the very high percent-
age of crude alcohol to be found in some of the
samples. Undoubtedly
THEY ARE BOTH RIGHT
And the moral deduced by the public therefrom is
as justifiable ,as it is sensible. The intelligent
newspaper reader ponders over the various state-
ments, estimates hfs chances, and unhesitatingly
dec lines to risk his health and prospects in the
consumption of colonial beer until he has some
guarantee that, if not actually beneficial, it has
at least the negative merit of not being positively
iojurious, for he knows that fusel oil always hif s
the bull’s-eye in the long run, and that in a given
time it can be
BACKED TO KILL
At a longer range than that of any other known
weapon. The expert who professes to laugh at the
scare which has b:ei started tries to ignore the
presence of the oil but ibis there all the time;
that is to say, it is somewhere between the beer
and the Government analyst, and, so fa", tho
latter appears able to give 50 points in 100 and
score a win off his break on the spot stroke. As
a matter of fact, there is only one beer which
occupies the positien so frequently referred to in
connection with
THE LAMENTED WIFE
Of the long-deceased Caesar. Clausen’s Lsger is
above susp cion, simply because it is made entirely
from malt and hop?, the saccharine part of which
is so thoroughly fermented that only an infinitesi-
mal portion is converted into alcohol, and fus?l oil
is nowcere. Clausen’s New York Champagne
Lager can be taken by the most delicate persons
with a certainty of attaining beneficial results.
From an unquestioned scientific standpoint it is
sentially a nutritious beverage and of necessity
non-intoxicatiDg, Viewed socially and with re.
gard to the well-being of consumers it is not alone
a highly popular drink, but
IN THE INTERESTS OF TEMPERANCE
It is one for which civilisation has much reason to
be thankful. Its health-giving properties are as
well known as they are widely app; eciated, and it
is the subject of constant remark that in Clausen’s
Lager the people have a beer which they can drink
to refresh tired nature without getting fuddled,
and thoroughly enjoy without any fear of conse
quences.
In New South Wales it can be obtained from
Messrs. Mason Bros., Limited. Fesq and Co.
Tooth and Co., AlltandCo., Burrows and GleesoD,
Lucas 8r03., R. Butcher and Co., J. T. and J.
Toohey and Co., Tidswell, Wilson, A. Thompson
and Co . C. Bath and Co., Cooper, Nathan, and
Co., Darcy and Co,, A. Rowan and Co., Tucker
and Co., Stewart and Co., and others, and at ail
first-class hotels.
“The Waferbury.”
mmm
m
•-y
m
WITH ATICK-LISH
TIME OF IT
WATCH.
Australians, your time is come. Eternal
vigilance must be your watchword. Keep
a watch on every body. On your statesmen,
capitalists, clergymen, police, journalists. On
yourselves, on everjbody. It is of vital impor-
tance, and it must be done if you want to protect
your hearths and homes, if you want your children
o have a future. The watch is “ The Waterbury.”
It costs only 13s. 6d. It runs 28 hours with only
one winding. It regulates to a minute a month.
It rarely gets out of order, and when it does can
be repaired at a nominal cost. Buy it. Try it.
Wear it. Take care of it. Or live to regret it.
ANSWER THIS.
Did you over know any person to be ill, without inaction
of the stomach, liver or kidneys, or did you ever know one
who was well when either w»s obstructed or inactive? and
did you ever know or hear of anv case of the kind 'hat D.\
S'mle’s American Hon Bitters would not cure? Ask your
neighbor this same qaesti m. “ Times.”
Summer ! Hockings and Co., have Australian Wines
from one to two guineas, d0z.—143 Pitt-street.*
Consumption, Bronchitis and General Debility
will yield quicker to the regular use of “Scott s Emulsion
op Cod Liver oil with Hypophosphite s,” than any
other remedy known to Medical science. Read the following:
“I have prescribed ’Scott's Emulsion’ and have also taken
it myself, and can fully endorse the opinion that it is both
palatable and efficient, and can he tolerated by almost any
one especially where Cod Liver Oil itself cannot be borne.
Martin Miles, M D , &c.
Stantonbury, Bucks, Eng.
r. ar ge and small bottles at all Chemists.
New South Wales and Freeman's Original Chloro
dyne —lt may be safely asserted that the world is destined
to hear a great deal more of New South Wales mining
enterprise, possessing as she does all the most important
known rnetaD and minerals in great abundance. Mr. Free-
man the Invent or of the Original and only Genuine Chlo-o-
dyne has in deference to the wishes of his patrons and cus-
tomers in New south Wales made such arrangements, that
colonists and new arrivals may obtain his Chlorodyne. with
the greatest facility in all parts of this important and rapidly
erowin" colony For Colds, Couehs, Bronchitis, A-thma and
'Consumption it has no rival.—Sold everywhere throughout
the colonies. Insist u :on having “Freenuns’ only. Reject
substitutes as they are worthless. Trade Mark an Ele
phant. * go,, MEL BOITRNE CUT £lO,OOO
At 20s. each.
Run, Nov.. Ist, 1887.
First Horse, £5,000; 2nd, £2,000; 3rd, £1 000; Starters,
£1,000; Non Starters, £1,000; to he divided amongst them.
£2,000 MELBOURNE CUP £2,000
First Horse, £l,OOO, 2nd £3OO, 3rd £2OO, to Starters, £250,
Non Starters £250, to be divided amongst them.
Address—'' .Tattersall.”
Care i f G. Adams,
Tattersall’s Hotel,
Pitt-street, Sydney.*
MEETING AN OLD FRIEND.
The tram stop3. Mias Lulu and Miss Alice
standing at the door of the trewery Hotel,
Paddington A dashing young fellow alights from
the tram,—a bow, a sa>i e, and Adonis is across
the street to meet the blushing smile of the charm-
ing girls whose faces and complexions have al-
ways a charm for old friend*. After exchanging
greetings they all enter the neat and pretty little
bar parlour to talk over the happy hours gone by,
and to exchange idea3 Said he in dulcet
tones, whose every note made the pulse thrill and
heart leap (at least he thought so)
Ones more, dear one, I take your hand,
In this little institut’on,
Tis the faircest spot in all the land,
To build up a constitution.
Struck with admiration at the hitherto unde-
veloped fire of poetry long hidden in the brea3t
of Adonis, the young ladies made reply.
If a constitution you wish to rear,
And make yourself a man,
Drink St Louis Lager Beer,
And drink it when you can.
One of the best managed and largest hotels In Sydney is
he Great Northern, corner Charlotte Place and George-
Btreet. Having been thoroughly renovated, Travellers will
find it the oosiest place in Sydney. The shilling lunoheon
t *
FATHER IS GETTING WELL.
My daughters say, "How much better father i* since he
used Dr. Soule's American Hop Bitt rs. He is getting well
after his long suffering from a disease declared incurable,
and we are so glad, he used your Bitters." A lady of
Rochester, N.Y. " Utica Herald."
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
HENRY THORPE, Proprietor,
Late of the Baden Baden Hotel, Coogee.
THE most elevated and central position in Sydney, at Top of King-street, adjacent to all Law
Courts, Macquarie-street, Hyde Park, Domain, and the Botanical Gardens.
Private Suites, Ladies’ Drawingroom, and good airy Bedrooms.
The Hotel is replete with every Convenience, Baths fitted with hot and cold water. Telephonic
communication. Telegraphic office in Hotel.
The Hotel is now under entirely new management, and the present proprietor trusts by eareful atten
tion to business to make The Oxford a Comfortable Home for Visitors or Residents of Sydney,
LOOK AT THIS.
150 Long shaped, Chinese Cane Balcony
Lounges, 12s. 6d.
150 Chinese Balcony Blinds, complete,
with cord and rackpullies, size6xB 6s. Od.
150 ~ ,i size BxB 7s. 6d.
150 „ ~ size 10 x 8 9s. 6d.
150 ~ ~ size 12 x 8 10s. 6d.
Not more than 5 of any one size will be sold to
any one customer, as our object is to make the
prize bargains general, and we again repeat the
prices are for October only, and for above named
parcels.
What more useful than Chests of Drawers. Jus
read this aloud and go fume and fret at having
bought elsewhere than Lawler’s.
70 of those handy 4-drawer Chests of
Drawers, £l5 0
100 of those useful large 7-drawer
Chests of Drawers, £2 5 0
100 of those Sideboard looking Chef-
foniers, £2 2 6
20 Large 6 feet glass-back sideboards, £8 10 0
But again we repeat not more than 5 of a line will
be sold to any one buyer.
Gently, gently. We spoke of revolutionary
rates, and we mean to the letter to prove our
prices revolutionary to the hilt.
25 English Ash, full 4 feet Wardrobes,
with silver-plate glass-door, and
fitted with hang up compartment,
and deep drawer under,
25 Fullsize English Ash Marble, and
tiled back Washsiands,
25 Fullsize English Ash Dressing Tables,
glass, drawers, &c.,
25 Fullsize English Ash Pedestal Cup-
boards,
25 Fullsize English Ash Towel Rails,
50 Fullsize English Ash Cane Seat
Chairs 7s. 6d. each, the two
Phew!—Ask any one else to touch it in single size
in Pine even at £lB.
We are on the job in Upholstery, and simply
invite our friends to call, as space will not admit
of chronocling a few special bargains where so
many prize bargains abound.
But our confidence in the matter of bargains in
Upholstery, is so strong that great though the
temptation is to avail ourselves no farther of the
press, yet what we have done, what we are doing
and what through great,, marvellous, October we
will do, is excuse sufficient to break through al
resolves.
Suites for Drawing-room in solid Wal-
nut, and spring set, frames all
close braced, upholstered in
very best manner in own
factories, and covered in Tapes-
try of silk and wool, gimped and I
corded, and finished in first-class H 3
style, for the sum of ... .. £l2 10 0
Will bring more money under the hammer. Could
not—and here let us say it’s worth the while of
those who read the statement to go through
Sydney 'houses and judge for themselves, the
above suite could not be got in Sydney a brown
cent less than £lB 103. Yes, the suite is of 9
pieces. But hold on searchers after “ bargains
we will give you a surfeit of them at Lawler’s dur-
ing this great October sale.
Look at this ye joyful widowers’ who purpose
furnishing again.
Suite of 9 pieces, upholstered on the
premises, webbed from frame in
best manner, and with best web,
spring set and upholstered in
olive terry, the small chairs hav-
ing upholstered panelbacks, ... £BlO 0
How is it done? Well, that’s not the lookout of the
buyer. Let the buyer buy, and buy quickly,
whilst bargains of the kind are before him, or as
sure as the sun will shine to morrow he'll have to
plant down his sweet little £l2 12s. for the suite
above referred to at Lawler’s at £8 10s.
The £24 10s. suites in Tapestry and plush—and
where can such a selection of frames and furniture
coverings be seen— ye 3, those charming suites will
only be £lB 10s. during this sale.
There are some 20 suites upon the floor at £35,
which will be sold during this sale at £25 10s.
But those who want the be3t Dining-room suite
in Sydney, massive, bold, handsome, glorious,
something in solid Walnut and in real morocco,
here’s a line worth coming to look at.
Massive Dining-room suite in solid
Walnut, upholstered through-
out in curled horse hair, and
covered in real hest morocco.
Value, £9O but at October’s
sale, £57 10 0
This could not be repeated, so there’s nouse of say-
ing that it could. The frames alone are worth
£3O.
And sideboards and Dinner waggons and Tables
to match.
Gilt Pier Glasses, during sale, 255. Od,
Walnut and Amboina inlay Pierglasses ~ 15s. 0d"
Black and Gold Pierglasses, ~ 37a. Od’]
Large Ditto „ 555. od3
Very Large Ditto ~ 85s. Od
No exageration to say worth half more than
a3ked during sale.
This column is about ended. For the good of
those who read we say bear this important fact
in mind that we offer no old stock, ill-fashioned
and damaged, for the simple reason we have none,
There is not an article that will b 8 on show hat
has been 6 months in the warehouse,
Look out for bargains, for by the immortal ve
and all his juniors we will make Lawler’s October
sale, and all the Emporium wondrous bargains
thing to be talked of for years to come.
Watch for the ready-made clothing advertise
ment and the bargnins in that department.
Boots also, aDd drapery Carpets and on
mongery, all will get their turn, and by thunde
they will speak.
The place at which to knock spots off “ ire
and all “other” sales is Lawler’s Emporium
Call in thousands. Write and you will
attended to with the same promptness as
person.
For October only, this sale of Lawler's?
but its a terror.
LA.'WXiER/S 1
608 GEORGE-STREET,
SYDNEY.


l32Q.porta3n.t I
Good News to Lovers of Music.
IMMENSE REDUCTIONS!
THE! OTSJTUSr
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION,
674
GEORGE ST, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
Beg to inform their many patrons and the public
that, as the duty on Instruments terminate on
Sept. 30th; they will sell
JHEAPER THAN EVER!
O
ACCORDEONS, at 7/6, 10/6. 12/6. 16/-, 17/6, 21/-
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, to £6.
Speciality : Patent steel noted Accordeon, double
bellows, 27/6.
~ Patent German Silver Reeded Ac-
cordeon, double bellows, 30/-,
■
f /0, 6/6, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-,
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Genuine Lachenal Anglo German 35/-
~ ~ steel notes 50/-
7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Specialty: Old copy Violin, with case, Bow,
Strings, Resin and Tutor for 30/-.
6/-, 7/6, 10/-, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-,
up to £l2 12s.
Speciality: Walter Howard Model Nickel Banjo,
60s. *
l/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10s.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Ipeoiallty I 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in oase,
by best English maker, for £2 10s.
Sole Agents in Australia
FOB
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
101 IS!
13.
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6,
5/• and 5/6 a set,
Single ones in proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, Bd., 9d„ and Is. each,
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d., Is., and Is. 3d. each.
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Guitar, Cello, Viola, Double Bass, Harp,
Zithar, &c., &c,
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT,
Orders promptly attended to, and all instru-
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
the colonies.
Enquiries attended to by return of post,
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
674 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
Glticura
Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
i v \
Er?!
'V/,
Scrofula on Keck.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching: and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,.
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Bcalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy
■icians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Town* & Co., New South Wale*.
CUTICURA RESOLVES, , the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Bashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
Eor Sale by all retail chemists and wholesals
•'U'lgAets throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
/IcArvid. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
sl.>j Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
m<> ic/p, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
pci 'iciUe,
Prepared by the
Potter Drug A Chemical Co., Boston, U.B.A.
‘ﬂw , «:ij
| \R‘\\‘
x N1 \\) '3 \\\\y_
51:;wéfh‘g ‘
1.....71.‘ I .3 L“ \\ .‘ I
f,\\\\’ . ,u”: - .‘ g
l“ ' 1a,: ‘
fix. .~ _
9‘\\\[2 \, \‘ #1:" a? S: : i
\QRR '-‘ ‘ I.» \“EE:::.‘:'§::’:
\ \\»:'-7'1"\-:_q:\,\_‘;3_:: 3",- ::.‘:.~':;; . -::::..:>.
\\h{Pm5'i3=555553;.33-3'2:452; .555. ::?;:. L
a; \\\w :555';-:f‘55é::1‘5;{'3i53551‘
I... P IVE-553%.] 6K»: -,
&\ f'wr'éix.’ 3
z . \>\”‘\\\\
,' \<:;&\ I
The
w
‘POTSHOT
Camera,
IS the Latest Novelty in the Photographic World. It is email, strong, very simple, handsomely got
ud and atrociously effective both on friends and 6n enemies. Six circular pictures, each about the
size of a crown niece can he taken on one plate with most astonishing speed and perfect accuracy.
This Camera can be worn under a coat or dress, the lens projecting through a button-hole cannot be
obeerved and the simple action of pulling a cord hands down to either reverence or ridicule every
Sent included S the scope of its vision. The “POTSHOT” Camera is not a toy, but a
really serviceable instrument of the class known as “DETECTIVE” Cameras. At the same time
an immense amount of fun can be got out of it, and photographs of people and things obtained with
ease which are practically impossible by any other method. A limited number only have been
imported by us, and they are well worth the attention of the general public.
Full particulars can be had, and goods seen, at
LICHTNER AND CO.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK WAREHOUSE,
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
MASON BROTHERS,
inniisw
IBP
LIMITED,
268 to 209 Kent-street
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, for
SALK to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.'S
Cognac,
„, T. GAYEN'S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
M
ONUM K N T
In Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Bailing*.
Design* and Estimate! forwarded on reqnss
J. GJUXIHCIiAiH,
MUii-anm, WnrwAßD-sqrA**, Brosrcf
WK can recommend the Imperial Hair-Cut-
ting Saloon as the best In Brisbane.
Tobaooo and cigars of the best brands. Address :
Temple Building, George-street, six doors from
Queens-street. A, OOOPKR, Proprietor?
Everybody \
should use;
PEIELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
F Xd O TJ- Z 3 I
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL
Ml Gnonaa-HTSBK?. Stohht,
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
MACKAY.
UNSURPASSED accommodation for commer-
cial travellers, and families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy meets every steamer.
I make comfort of travellers a speoial study,
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V, ROBINSON,
Proprietor.
ALAN B. BRIGHT,
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
The science of life,
By W. Knox Parker, M.D.
A Book for young and old men. 200 pages*
bound in cloth, and contains over 100 prescrip]
tions. Price, post paid, 3s. 6d. Descriptive
sample free. Those suffering from Nervous ex-
haustion and Diseases should send at once for thtn
valuable work. Address! Doctor W. K.
Parker, Post Office Chambers, oorner Bourke and
EGUssabeth Streets, Melbourne, Vic,
BRAD ’11, ▼ wfwTnw, to LAMB
(in liquidation)* '.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WARKHOUSKMKN, i
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS,
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTQRT (
SPRING and C’CONNELL STREET
WM
■'■Sw.
Full suites for dining-room.—side'
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to matooh.
I ELF- ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR
Patented.
This chair adjusts itself to any pos tlon, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous ositions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. AST We can
now supply portable suspension Stands to enable
the Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with
Stand 30/-; Without Stand 25/-.
Packing in canvas, if required 2s. 6d. extra j
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably Up-
holstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &o.
a
WALNUT FAL
FRONT PEDKSTA
WRITING DESKS, of vari
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the Bpace when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo
dlous, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably Buited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
TaisaEl
Pi
Q
RAWING ROOM OABI
NETS,
EARLY El GLISH
and
CHIPPENDALE
DESIGNS.
Large stock of pianofortes by the
MO 3I CELEBRATED MAKERS.
gd
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS
In
GREAT VARIETY,
And a complete assort-
ment of Bent Wood
Furniture the best make
only.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bee'
rooms. New designs covered to order lh
any material.
Self-adjusting chair and couch, fer
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
tul, a specialty.
'ti—T '
A'.
‘ ‘1‘
NW» ‘1; 3'5 ‘ "
g A ea
"OBDSTHADS, all glass
■*“* Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass, ©rent variety,
Bedding,—All descriptions r,
lowest rates.
fdfg
SPRING MATTRASSKB
Wo yen wire, belt
make } also, Spiral Spring.
Price, from lie, each,
CHEAP FURNITURE.-Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d. j Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Klbohen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.j Washstands, from 12s, 6d i
Chests of Drawers, from 10s.; Wardrobes, from
80s.) Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.) Cedar Side-
boards, from £3loa.| Clothes Horses, from 10s, 6<?,
Writing Tables, with drapers, from 30s.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
(in liquidation),
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN;
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS,


POLITICAL
POINTS
“You bellicose belching, blatherskite !'’
—N.S.W. Parliamentary argument.
Parkes told his North Shore constituents
that he intends to give a vote to Bridget.
Wise says all Protectionists are liars. It
is just as well that he didn’t say all liars are Pro-
tectionists.
The Irish police are grim humoudsts.
After shooting three men dead at Mitchelstown,
they arrested the coroner.
The present Lord Lieutenant of Ireland,
although kind and considerate, Is not and never
will be popular. For he is a grandson of “Cut-
throat Castlereagh,"
The Political Rhinoceros.
Mr. John Haynes, M.L.A., seems to have
one great objeot in life—the bringing about of a
war between N.S.W. and Victoria.
“ Abigail is a man to be trusted.” Parkes
has been much trusted himself. Trust is with him
naturally the measure of greatness.
Governor Robinson, of S.A., objects to
being colonially income-taxed. He forgets that
Australians are income-taxed In Er gland.
Virgil Power, the Queensland barrister,
said the other day that he had no faith in the Go-
vernment, “ especially when it was in power.”
Parker, M.P. of Victoria, was the other
night in th 9 House under the impression that
when members were sworn in they swore that they
would he truthful !
A Sydney Sunday Pickwickianly paper
compares a certain local politician to a beast of
prey reduced to live on flies in its old age. This
js what might be called language.
Premier Parkes says that his Ministry ha 3
been nine months in office, and during that time
it has not been idle The same opinion is
held by Mr. John M'Elhone, M.L. A.
A railway-porter mustn’t accept gratuities
from the public But a Premier may. Doo3 the
difference after all only consist in the old dif-
ference between retail and wholesale ?
Speaker Davies, of the Victorian Assembly,
always falls back on the decisions of the Commons.
When Gaunson wanted to set May above Speaker
Lalor, Peter thundered: “ lam the only authority
here ! ”
Th us the Brisbane Courier ;—“ No
colony exoeeds the mother colony in political
apathy. No colony exceeds the mother colony in
the selfishness and incompetence of its politicians.”
Rev. Charles Strong, in a recent lecture
delivered in Melbourne, on “ Australian National-
ism,” said, “ la the first place, we must discard
the cant and clap-trap about the honour and glory
of Britain.”
Of a Queensland M.L.A., who is snorting
for two additional members for his electorate, a
local paper says “ It will take at least half-a-
dozsn like him to represent any intelligent con-
stituency.”
Speaker Davies, of Victoria, is described
as a man “who made his way to Parliament
through the stomachs of his constituents, and
made his way to the chair through the stomachs
of the members.”
“ How very appropriate that, from the
throes of this monetary incongruity—the indebted
bossing his creditors—a Bankruptcy Bill should
have been almost the first thing evolved. Pah!”
—Nyngan Mercury on Parkes.
“ There was never a time in our history
when the people of New South Wales had more
need to be wakeful than now,” writes Mr. John
Haynes. John is right, and is no doubt referring
to his own history. He is in Parliament now.
Parkes travels on his hair. High-church
parsons don’t. They shave clean and travel on
their expansive cheek. If they were to grow
beards and Parkes were to shave, there would be
no High-church, and no Freetrade. What ecstasy.
“ Sir Henry Parkes is confident that the
hulk of the people in New South Wales are much
better off than those of the United States of
America.” Of course they are. Parkes himself is
much better off than he would be in New York.
“ No amount of reasoning can reconcile
us to the sophistry that the head of the Govern-
ment may do with honour what would be dis-
honourable in a private member, on the ground
that he owes it to his party not to disorganise
them for the sake ot conscience.”—Melbourne
Age on Parkes.
13 not Mr. John Harley, M.L.A., who
lately took the chair at a meeting of the share-
holders of a Sydney “ bank,” which lends money to
workmen on convertible security at £l2O or £l3O
per cent, per annum Interest, the same legislator
who once submitted to the N.S.W. Parliament an
anti-usury bill ?
Premier Parkes says he is going to enfran-
| chise woman, If women get votes they will have
a right to sit a 3 members of Parliament. And if
women get the suffrage the principle will have to
be carried to its logical conclusion—the assertion
of absolute sexual equality in all respects. For
instance, the seduction laws must he abrogated.
“ I remember Parkes as a rabid Protec-
tionist and as an ardent Freetrader ; as a deter-
mined advocate of the abolition of capital punish-
ment, and as the man who boasted of having
| hanged O'Farrell; as a strong denominationalist,
and as the boasted founder of a secular scheme of
education. And so on.”—The late William
Forster.
G. W. Hall, of the Victorian Assembly,
who has gained notoriety by his motion that
M’s.P. of seven years' standing should have free
rail way-passes for life, was, fifteen years 8 go, a
oompositor on the Melbourne Herald, and after-
wards secretary of the Typographical Association.
Then he started a country paper; now he is in
Parliament.
Have the people of New South Wales,
then, sunk so low that they are prepared to allow
F/ancis Abigail to retain his office as Minister of
Mines while his name continues to figure in the
newspaper advertisements at the head of the
directors of a company which The Bulletin has
operly accused of lending miney to workmen, on
convertible security, at £l2O per cent, per annum
interest 1
Modern Socilt ii its efforts to stigma-
tise as assassins the Irish pe. pie, proves too much.
It ra s that Lady Londonderry, wife of the Lord
Lieutenant, on her arrival ii Dublin “mo nted a
horse and rode through the streets, HI led with an
unfriendly crowd " Now, if the streets were
“ filled with an unfriendly crowd,” where on
earth were all the Dublin royalists, loyalists, and
coeroionlsts ?
A Blackall (Q.) publican, who announces
his candidature for next Parliamentary election Is
thus puffed by the local scribe i— “Mr. Banks’
practice since he was called to the Bar has enabled
him to acquire such a knowledge of men and mea-
sures, particularly measures, as may prove of
great service to him in the Legislative Assembly,
more especially as a member of the Refreshment
Room Committee."
“ It may be said with truth that Sir Henry
Parkes ‘ never made a friend ! ’ He may have
many people constantly running after him, but he
never inspired anyone with personal regard ; his
disposition is not susceptible of friendship ; he is
completely and entirely wrapped up in self ; and
any one, however closely and Intimately associated
with him, who may be the innocent cause of any
supposed danger to his position or prospects, is
‘unhesitatingly sacrificed.”’—Sydney Evening
News.
Tom Bent has informed the Victorian
Assembly that he is prepared, if necessary, to
devote his entire time to the service of the coun-
try, as he has now nothing else to do. Under
these circumstances, it would pay the country to
provide Thomas with something else to do. There
is a lack of culture about Marcus Clarke's
maligner which can only be supplied by furrin
travel. Why doesn’t the country Bend Thomas to
Yurrup by public subscription, that h 9 may see
Venice —and die ?
M‘Elhone, M.P., on Premier Parkes :
“ If such charges were made against me I would
spend every penny I had In the world, send my
wife and children out to beg their bread in the
streets of my native country—by the God who
hears me I would sacrifice everything I hold dear
in the world, the lives of those nearest and dearest
to me, money, love, a friction, everything, in order
to clear my character of such scandalous charges."
This Is the kind of thing they don't report in the
Sydney daily papers,
Remarks the Colonial Military Ga-
zette (Sydney) i
If we have any political opinions at all with referecoe to
the New Hebrides and Samoan troubles, we incline to think
that the French have just as much right to walk into tl e
New Hebrides, and the Germans to hoist their flag at Apia,
as the British had t > take possession of Fiji, or to swindle
the Maoris of New Zealand by trammoniog that their mag-
nificent country was worth only a few old blankets and
tobacco pipes.
Phew! Did not Divine Providence long ago
hai d ever, with its compliments, the savage races
of the world to the maternal care of England ?
A meeting called by the Mayor of
Bathurst to consider the propriety of assisting Sir
Henry Parkes in his present financial difficulties
ended in a fiasco. The meeting was called for 9
p m., hut very few people at'ended, which seemed
to give great umbrage to certain wire-pullers, and
notably to an official who was appointed by Sir
Henry Parkes many years ago. It must te re-
membered, however, that largsyne Bathurst con-
tributed largely, over four figures, to a subscrip,
tion got up to pay Henry Parkes’ debts on condi-
tion that he retired from politics. This he did
not do but dabbled on, and Bathurst, we think,
objects to being bled a second time.
The difference between Freetrade, as
practised by the Australian disciples of Cobden,
! and Protection is about this : Freetrade consists
“ THE PREMIER S RE-ELECTION,
r
11 The ab r ence of a contest at St Leonards yesterday
was what rearly every o<iv hoped for and most people
anticipated He wisely aVstajw d from rep'y-
i-ig to the venomous attacls *>*ich have been mace
upon his personal character. These attacks have come
fcr the inept, part from men who have been more
anxious to adver'ise themselves than to humiliate Sir
Henry Partes Bis misfi rtunes simrly supplied them
wPh an opportunity When other m< n maintained a
sympathetic si'erce they found a chance cf Effing up
their voices. But they have signally failed j n accom-
plishing am thing beyond tun ing the public contempt
upon themselves. The sooner they are left to make the
best of a situation in which they have all the worst of
it the better for the public life of the colony.”— Daily
Apologist.
in protecting foreign industries against local ones,
whereas Protection consists in aiding the local
workman against his outside rival. For instance,
N.S.W. is a Freetrade country and New Zealand
oysters are admitted free of duty, but a royalty is
charge!, for revenue purposes, on native oysters,
and, consequently, the local fisherman receives
less for his bivalves than the man who ships them
from Maoriland. If this Freetrade principle i 3 to
be carried out to its logical conclusion, we will
soon tee a poll-tax levied on Australians while
Chinamen are admitted into the colony free.
No bicyle-rider ever came home drunk on
his bicycle. This is an argument in favour of
bicyclists. The machine never carries drunks.
Settling up after a recant N.S.W. race-
meeting one cf the lucky winners said : “ Gentle-
men, —When I ain’t in quod hoss-racin’ is my
favourite hobby. I alius runs to win. There
ain’t no hanky-panky about me. I'm the biggest
winner—well, I deserves it. I breeds me own
hosses, and, damme 1 I breeds all me own jockeys,
too, and then the least as I can do is to win some
of me own prizep.”
When George Houston Reii resigned his
position in the Civil Service in ordf r to get a seat
in Parliament for East Sydney, he was, as he is still,
distinguished by the very careful adjustment of
his eye-glass. An observing friend drew George
aside one day and pointed out that in a con-
stituency like East Sydney the eye-glass would
cost him five hundred votes at least, The hint
was taken, the eyeglass dispensed with for a time
and George Houston topped the polk


j McJLJEAJST BROS., RIGG A CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
61* GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
o
<SJ
o
<5
s
IRONMONGERS
512
o
o
r 1
%
REG?
NT
S
6 s
SPECIALITIES l
Dhli’ Sewing HacUne, Asbestos fire-proof Faint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
SAB COOKING STOVES i—LEONIS FLETCHER'S, JEANS 8s WALKER'S®
BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES, fcO., fcO,
ENSURE YOUR HEARTH!
AGAINST ALL RISKS!!
BY TAKING
'USE’S FLU D
Cools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the Secretions,
ft hd Fortifies the System against the Shafts of Disease.
THE BEST APERIENT FOR CHILDREN.
NUMEROUS GOLD MEDALS.
ERZOfi TO ALL OTHER
(Vide Medical Testimonials, Analysis, &c., accompanying each bottle).
take only kruse’s,
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 64. and 3s. 6d. each.
Wetors: FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., Melbourne.
TEETH LIKE PEARLS,
yyt'® and sound teeth, perfect freedom from d'-ray, a healthy action of the gums, and delight-
fragrant breath can best be obtained by discarding gritty tooth powders and acid washes
ftpwlcmcte’
Oaonto
hert,l < i rl .P,? ntlfric ®'.* J ''l hite .P oWd9r composed of the most recherche ingredients of the Oriental
the tpJ!*.? ll ® warranted free from any gritty or deleterious ingredients; it whitens and preserve*
Pleasi n ™ reVents *. ar J“? af re Bts decay, eradicates scurvy, strengthens the gums, ana gives a
h rea th, while its anti-septic and anti-scorbutic properties exercises
Paste« y^ n fs cl^ ln 5 I,eilct U )n and gums. All Dentists allow that neither washes or
non P oBs jfhly be as efficacious for polishing the teeth and preventing decay as a pure and
“cn-gntty tootl powder: such HOWLANDS' ODONTOJnw always prerXitsell R
Is now sold in a golden colour for
v No other"Odonto is genuine.
ROWLANDS' MACASSAR OIL
ir a,i d golden-haired people and children.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR beautifies the complexion, eradicates all cutaneoua
nclt?. a '>d renders the skin soft, smooth and delicate. Ask anywhere for ROWT.AWtW
les, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, and aroid spurious and pernicious imitation.
Resale and Retail Agents—Elliott Bros., and E. Prosber & Co., Sydney.
O*J5
T. WILLIAMS * 00..
IMPORTERS OP
Britj«h & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Alio Manufacturer* of
The Finest Quality oe Goods in the above Lines.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
HOES
HOE
E SODA WATER.
THE
n Intgj Water Co.
J> erfe ’ ~ SYDNEY.
A,t
eob Purity Guaranteed.
fh-
stand thk season,
Jtoi
B ®hiU Racecourse, Parramatta,
B °ntie Charlie.
„
f»2^lte tla n T J mport;o d Hungarian Pony,
A‘ ot * Mato>, HARLIE . « high, by
atch.
sa.
An allowance for any number
li'vJto’lu. e arK nuna W of Mares can be taken,
is necessary, to be
86 to Wm. Inglis and
r * or to Brush Farm, Eastwood.
JOHN BENNETT,
FREE
PRESCRIPTIONS are to
be found In the “ LIGHT AND
LIFE," for the Bpeedy cure of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &o. A copy of this
book will be sent free, sealed. Address—
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
MARSHALL'S
TONIC NERVINE
i-- - ;
Trade Mark —“ TONIC NERVINE.”
MARSHALL S TONIC NERVINE
Promotes Appetite.
Improves Digestion,
Cores Nervous Debility-
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers—Price 4/6.
J Prepared only by
MARSHALL BROTHERS,
Sydney, N.S.W. s London, England,
THK BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
Sydney Branches!
61 PITT-STREET, and 638 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve fund ... m ... 600,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commer
olal and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
Prince of Wales Hotel,
MACKAY (QUEENSLAND).
FIRST-CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and families, private sitting
rooms without extra charge.
Billiard Room, plunge and shower Baths, large
Sample Rooms.
MARTIN GIBSON,
Proprietor.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM'S PULS
%
tA i
PATENT
PILLS.
8
m
$
A?
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nerroua disorders,
such as wind and pa-' n
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling-
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin.distur bed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, Ac. The first
dose will give relief in
IW Sixty xainuteß. This is no fiction, for they have
Ini it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
larasstlv invited to try one box of these Pills, and
awywiil be acknowledged to be
"WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEKCHAM’S
PTT.T.H for removing any obstruction or irregularity
•f the system. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digesswi and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society ; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have ths largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
HICHAM'S MAGIC COUGH PILLS
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
-any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Bexcham’s
Corr&H Pirns a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time he
removed.
Cautiox. —The public are requested to notice that
the words “ Beecham’s Puns, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills,
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. ltd. and 2s. 9d,
vach.—-Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
©osiers throughout tbe Colonies.
W.B. —Full directions are given with each box.
Commercial Hotel, Gympie, Queensland,
THK above 1b one of the oldest Family and
Squatting Hotels In the colony. Prices
reasonable. Sample Boom.
Superior accommodation. Hot and Gold Baths.
Mrs. W. COMPIGNK, Proprietress.
r ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for.its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Memos—
PARIS,IB7B; CALCUTTA, 1884,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
ESSENCE OF WHITE ROSE
FRANGIPANNE
STEPHANOTIS
UHS&W**
and other well-known Perfumes are un-
equalled iorthair delight ful and lasting edour
Atkinson's celebrated
EATT DE COLO&NE.
Unsurpassed for its strength and delightful
fragrance. It is far superior to the numerous
compounds sold under the same name.
Of all Dealers, and o' the Manufacturers—
], & B. A-fKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London
. Trade Mark—“ White Rose” on“ Golden /
feL Lyre " Jk
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF AU THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And fttIQUBBN STREET, BRISBANE.
Guinness’ Ext] a Stout.
FIRST QUALITY
*adf
•:
8
BASS' PALE ALE.
SOLE PURVEYORS t» ft#
COIiOMIAX AMD IMDIAM nUDIRMt
LONDON,
By Special Appolnbmen*.
WHOLESALE AGENTS
W. BALCHIN. JOHNSTON t CO.,
OwKUtlal ClimlxTi) Bond-ittMli Sydney.
G. fcTEVENSON
Has On Sale—
WINE CASKS. BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c.
OOupekaGE.
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market streets.
CRITERION HOTEL, N ARRANDERA, N.S.W,
First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Plnnge and shower bath. ’Bns meets every train,
J. E. PATTERSON,
Proprietor,
Good Sample Rooms.
Robert butcher & co.
Have Removed their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGE-STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool Streets.)
WINES, SPIRITS, AND BEERS, in and out Of
Bond, at LOWEST RATES.
PALACE HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND.
. CRAMP, Proprietor (late of Rookampton),
CONDUCTED on the same principle as ths
great Melbourne Coffee Palace. A very
irge Billiard Room.
’rices as follows: —Bs. per diem, All meals Is. Bd,
ﬂ
jr
smLy 9
TH St «GLMI> 1M« H AM
A
The most welcome discovery of
MODERN TIMES. ii
A CURE for PULMONARY CONSUMPTION,
To the consumptive, and those who suffer from
asthma, bronchitis, coughs, colds, haemorrhage,
and other affeetions of the lungs, this notice Is Of
vital importance, for this remedy will effect] a
perfect cure of the most stubborn cases. ■, ,1 “51
The afflicted need have no fear of it, and must
not regard this advertisement as the ordinary notice
of Borne quack medicine. The qualities of the
preparation are cleaning and healing, causes easy
and copions expectoration, and heals the lungs
through the blood, promotes digestion, and thus
aids the stomach to digest and assimilate nourish*
ing food for the formation of pure vitalising blood,
to repair diseased tissues, and maintain the vital
powers.
On application for reference we will send tha
addresses and testimonials of those persons whom
it has cured.
The Consumptive Cure can be obtained from tha
office of William Fokd and Company, No. 4
Australla-street, opposite Courthouse, Newtown,
Sydney. Sent to any part of the Colonieß. Pricejj
7s. 6d. per bottle. And where may be also ob<j
tained The Cure op St. Vitus’ Dance, by ox*
ternal application, which disease it will oura
within eighty-four hours.
y- RIDGE’S
FOOD
m INFANTS AND INVALIDS
HAS An •nprrngu? sale in England,
f£d introduced into ttt#
use it.
fnfcJECtOTEv’S
.N G» LA ND.
GBD. GBD. GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
BBXAR°' PIPES,
Still maintains its Prestige and stands pre-eminent among
the hosts of other brands as '
THE BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforce the Law against
ill persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & 00.,
231, OLARENOE-STREET.
GBD.
GBD.
We hare Large Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
FIFES to hand and Regular Shipment* coming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY.


ROYALR?CWI|
oiyra
POWDER
Absolutely Pure.
For quick baking. Raises bread, bisoolta, roils,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without tha aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
the Royal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with mpunity. Maintains Its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists,
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government, Guaranteed absolutely pure and j
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Baking
Powder Co., 108 Wall-street, New York U.S.A,
Trade supplied by Moses Moss & Co., Sydney
N.S.W.
P. IjABXUN,
IMPORTER,
Family Wine and Spirit Merchant.
PCNIC and WEDDING PARTIES supplied with the Choicest Brands of WINES, SPIRITS,
and BEERS at the most Reasonable Prices, ALL RETURNS BEING ALLOWED FOR.
Notwithstanding the Heavy Customs Imposts, P. R, L. still sella the Best Glass of RUM,
BRANDY, or WHISKY IN THE CITY FOR THREEPENCE'
The SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT is stooked with all the Leading Brands of WINES
SPIRITS, &c., whieh are sold by the SINGLE BOTTLE AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL,
778 & 780 GEORGE STREET, SOUTH,
SYDNHY.
WALLACH BROS.'
aCTHJW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
Am
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUKS WITH PRIOR LIST, PRRB ON APPLICATION,
WALLACH BROTHERS.
VENI, M VIDI,^VIOLi
For Artistic Posing and Effeotdv®
combining softness and brilllanw*
Photographs of
GHARLE&I9MT
ROYAL ARCADE,!
STAND PRE-EMINENTLY jUjfi-
* GO THOU AND DO
» ” 1 M vi n i .(• r, , Sepr®®
SUMMER, with its heat, dust and i
effects, is on ns, and one of thegr® , re (r««t
we may enjoyfis a delightfully cool @0
bath, made more luxurious by tn *— ■
little “Sea Foam Shampoo.” Follow < .
and you will find it a most benencia , oflO ja t
giving adjunct to the toilet. It
Hair, Scalp, and Skin, and leave th <rf ®
perfumed, will cure Scurf, Ringwor
head, and has the endorsement o
medical anthorities. The words
Shampoo” are registered, and any M the
imitation of same will be prosecute '
extent of the law. Sold by all of
dealers in toilet articles at the low
shilling per packet. Please trF onep
will never regret it.
THEATRE ROY^
ROCKHAMPTON.
THE above Is the only 0
Rockhampton for holding. gggiP 9
other Entertainments, and can °°
any term upon application to
The Wonder of tlio ™ ' ai
COLEMAN and Sons,
awarded First Prize an «*» z, $
tion for their PURE VOLATILE "
OIL. The only known cure for gJ tg
affections of the chest. We have/r
testimonials than any medicine be jr
This is a genuine article. P°stoa ftD ,j
on receipt of stamps. Price, Is- " L
Agents, Hoflfaung & Co. ; Elliott#.
FRYS MALTED COCOAI
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
"AH
ORDINARY OUP
' THAN A PINT
OONTAIHB MORN AOTIVB PROPBBXIPB
OP THH BUST ALB OR FORTBR.”
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pis and Sheet Lead, Spelter, Ac.
Braga and Ball Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Ooppersmithlng, Rlaokamithlng, Plumbing,
Gaafltting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTON'S “FLUSH," “VALVE," and “PAN" CLOSETS, “VACUUM" WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, fco.
Mil Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Kxkanst Van Cowls, «as Vires, Beaters,
Warmers, At,
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND 9 MACQUARIE-PUCE,
SYDNEY,
Frn PABTiatnuna and Pbion on AmiOAiiON.
Custom House Hotel,
BUNDABERG.
First-class Accommodation for Squatters, Com-
mercial Travellers, and others.
Mt Private Suites for Families.
Plunge and Shower Bath. Billiards.
Baggy meets every steamer.
HARRY MoCANN, Proprietor.
NORTHUMBERLAND HOTEL, Gympie.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
WINKS AND SPIRITS OF THK CHOICKST
BRANDS.
J. F. B. STEWART, Proprietor.
HoM
Belle Vue
Opposite Parliament Honses,
and Queensland C® u
-c TlOl^
FIRST-GLASS FAMU* *
' ~~ i/fIR o®*
ACCOMMODATION yu
A Walter Masts Every
~ ,
Letters and telegrams P leas Aft l
prletor,
THIS SPACE RESERVED FOR E. ROWLANDS.
©
NEW BILLIARD TABLE SHOW ROOMS & FACTORY,
BILLIARD CUSHIONS, &c., MADE ON THE PREMISES
Old Tables re-fitted by our own men.
CLOTHS,CUES.BALLS in stock,also CRICKET,LAWN TENNIS&BOWLS.
BURROTJGHES & WATTS,
7, Little George Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W., and Soto Square, LONDON.
FITZROY HOTEL,
EAST STREET, ROCKAMPTON.
«T FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL,
Plunge and Shower Bath.
Private Sitting Room, without extra charge.
Good Stabling. Every Accommodation,
JAS. WILLIAMSON. Proprietor,
Clgrax 3DI-T7-a,ao.
(Next Royal Standard Theatre.)
Best kinds of Tobacco, Cigars and Pipes.
R. CLIFFORD,
CASTLEREAGH STREET.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, GOULBURN.N.S.W.
FIRST-CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and others. Private sitting rooms,
ample roomß. JAMES SIMONS, Proprietor,
C> M. K I L ■ T
** (lace of the Detective Force;,
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and Qeneral
Business Agenoy Office,
II ROYAL AROADB, SYDNEY,
Abcoonden and wife deselrteri traced, and all kind* of
’onfidential inquiries instituted. Evidenoe obtained In
lltoroe. libel, fraud, and incendiary oases, for the legal pro-
*•■*loo an< * °th Qrg * Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
timftgc, or death, obtained in any part of the world
Kants and debts collected. From R. M. R.’s long experience
g the Detectire Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
law Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
flow, he Is in a position to oonduot all inquiries with caution
ispeuition and strictest secresy, and to faithfully and
m attend to all business entrusted to h care.
after defohb Moustache and Whiskers.
•EFOfIS AFTtiH
Copyrighted, j
Boyd’s Beard Elixir did this,
and will do it on either bald
head or bare /are- Forces
heavy Moustache in from 2 to
4 weeks arid never fails . 20,000 *
young men already wear full
CopjriQhtta
beards, having used Ito 3 pkts. Ao injury, easily applied, certain
in effect, rackets, I#. (id. each , & for ,3s. (id., post paid, sent under
cover, free from observation , Address, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent ,
J« IX NS. .r.
Tagloffiffl 5
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
« . pC otoN y '
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT Tn
WIESENER’B WATC.®
tri-.-i*. • . - w itb° u »-
WIESENER’S WATCHES.
NO amount of competition reduces the demand. Their reputation for reliability is unassailable. Reduction in price
■ 1 quality. Geneva, English, and American Watches, of proved qualities and results, in sterling cases, from
Monogram, Crests, Inscriptions engraved. Country orders promptly &nd faithfully executed, well packed, and posted
Estimates and prices by return post.
GEORGE STREET, Q'STlDasriErSrv
334
