

The Bulletin
hfhnf
ESTABLISHED 1755.
important notice to the general public.
KntoMKtitf
Jr ) of 132 years’ standing, and naturally jealous of their reputation, is prepared to
n S-felt want by supplying the highest qualities of BRANDIES, RUMS, LIQUEURS,
&c., at the Same Prices now paid for inferior articles.
*** BRAN S>Y, the purest ever imported in the Australian Colonies.
’8 CUR AGO A, MARASCHINO, and other Liqueurs.
-wjwjJ’S Very Old JAMAICA RUM, in wicker-covered bottles,
WIZARD’S CHERRY BRANDY.
fbhfg
CLiiEBTS CHA3LIS
J EYRIGNOUX & PII.S BORDEAUX
wiymm house bhand.
T} le T ,• ' •■ ■ ■ _ .
ira de are specially recommended the “ FLYING HORSES ” Brand, ydiich for quality and cheapness .
cannot be surpassed.
fgfh
a
BY
-A.3ST
o
%
Hi
VEUVE AMIOT CHAMPAGNE, a wine much admired by Ladies.
THE CONTINENTAL BALL WINE.
■ ■ ■ ~ < ■
7 ' “ '
BULK COGNAC.
LOUIS HOVER & CIE JARNAC—COGNAC,
FINK OLD MATURED BRANDIES,
J
Quotations from the Sole Agents,
RQTH& GO., Commercial Chambers, Bond-st, Sydney.
go Stocks of High Class TV ines, from the most noted shippers, in Bond and Duty Paid Stock,
< COUNTRY AGENTS REQUIRED- CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.


fhfgbh
%
OL!M :
356 GEORGE ST SYDNEY.
HUMAN
m
&§es
es
■reatesttferletrtfruAcStratia r ftvtn§ the
choice ;*slftSos from £l>
Ut CUSTOMERS
ft&v&xet BV MOfitei.v to-
fhbgf
irrmrn
iflHl
.1:
matiUHj
€otMNsrxtf*
+Af»
TRCACI£
Rff/NfRS
OS?D,
ta&s\
03
mmsamms
mad Office * Factory, newtowv
BRANCH. C£ORC£ ST. SYOH£Y
THE AUSTRALIAN
LOAN, DISCOUNT AND FINAN-
CIAL COMPANY,
Limited,
SCXB AD OIT'B’IOEI s
CORNER OF MARKET AND YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
INCORPORATED, JUNE, 1886.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO STERLING.
RESERVE, £31,661 4s. STERLING.
SHE AUSTRALIAN LOAN, DISCOUNT AND FINAN-
CIAL COMPANY, Limited,
transact all usual Banking Business. Current Aooounts
opened. Drafts issued, Bills Discounted, and Advance upon
all kinds of Commercial Securities.
OVERDRAFTS GRANTED AGAINST DEPOSITS
OF DEEDS.
Deposits Received
AND
Interest Allowed
At Call, 4£ per cent.
3 Months, 6 per cent.
6 Months, 7 per cent.
12 Months, 8 per cent.
WITH BONUS ADDITIONS TO DEPOSITS OF
SIX AND TWELVE MONTHS.
Depositors can arrange to withdraw the whole or portion
of their deposits, without notice, and will toe allowed current
interest for the period of deposit.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
H. M'NAMARA,
SECRETARY.
CAUTION.
THE UNITED HORSESHOE & NAIL CO., Lmcl.
iwiw " £ — . f
CUSTOMERS of the Uuited Horse Shoe and
\_y Nail Company are cautioned against pur*
chasing a spurious na&, made in imitation of the
“Globe” nails, and which are exported from
Germany.
The nails in question are made of Inferior metal,
and are not so well finished as those of The United
Horse-shoe and Nail Company, Limited.
All boxes of The United Company are branded
U.R-S, and N. Co., and customers should take
care that they get the boxes so marked.
By order.
R, 8. HASBKON, Secretary,
ll§ Cannon-efcreet, London, E.C.,
June, 1887.
TTITTLLS’ HOTEL, Mackay, Queensland.'
V? EDMUND DUNNOCK, Proprietor.
Travellers and Families will find the old well-
known reputation maintained.
JJMPKRIAL MOTEL, TOWNSVILLE.
Proprietress, 1 SARAH EATON,
late of Muswellbrook and Rockhampton.
KSF First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
It Iff ASONIC HOTEL, EAST-STREET, ROCK-
JMI HAMPTON. ~T. MURPHY, Proprietor.
Wayside Gleanings:—-The “Western Cham-
pion” says: “ I can recommend the Rockhampton
Masonic to my western friends.” (
LEICHHARDT HOTEL,
ROCKHAMPTON.
Proprietress—Mrs. J. GIBBS,
(Late of Westport.)
Palace Family Hotel,
Corner of Stanley and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
First-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments.
Admitted the coolest and best ventilated
house in the city.
DAVID LYONS, Proprietor.
JgjXCELSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated comer of Gill and Church-streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
ADELAIDE.
EfLDER’S WOOL AND PRODUCE
COMPANY, LIMITED.
CAPITA!, £900,000.
STOCK SALESMEN,
WOOL AND SKIN BROKERS,
GENERAL COMMISSION AGFNTS.
TO WINEGROWERS AND OTHER*.
a. Stephenson has On sale
WINE CASKS, 250 to 400 gallons j
alio,
Rum Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS.
Hogsheads, Quarter casks, Spirit Kegs, from
gallons and upwards.
COOPERAGE.
87 KENT STREET, and 171 SUSSEX STREET
Between King and Market streets.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
jlO ail Afflicted' with Rheumatic Gout Tic-
Doiqreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs
Face, or Heajd.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary! In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT
ROSE'S CELEBBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion Is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to.be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
fl. A. ROSE, Pharmaoaiitical Otaist,
031 Goorge-etreet only.
Please Do Not Read This !!
IT DOES NOT CONCERN YOU,
F | THERE is no excuse for any person of either
X sex suffering from those unsightly disfigure-
ments of the Face, Neck, or Skin, caused by
Pimples, Freckles, Moles, Warts, or any other
kind of skin disease, if they will only listen to a
few words of timely advice, and sit down at once
and write a full, clear, and explicit statement of
their case, enclosing twopenny stamps, when
they will receive a candid reply as to the length
of time that will be required to effect a cure, fee,
See., See. Superfluous Hair removed quickly and
painlessly. Red noses restored to normal colour,
All communications held strictly sacred and con-
fidential. Address Edward T, Hubbbll
Dermatologist, Box 852, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W. ’
TYR. O’CONNELL has removed to Edgar
JLf House, No. 8 Bligh-street, Dr. O’Connell
does not need to advertise at all. His patient®,
grateful for their cure and restored health and
vitality, and thankful for the sympathy shown to
them, and also the moderation of the charges,
advise their Mends to consult and be cured.
Consultation (by person or letter) free.
Dr, J. GCONNKIaL,
Edgar House
Corner Bligh and Hunter streets,
SYDNEY, <•
* I
ZSTUD*
ECONOMY
and'
Have yonr Umbrella Sfiame# re-
covered, and four
Parasol* re-lined and made equa
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
841 Gteorge Street,
3riokfield Hill, between
eiv/srjiool and Bathurst Street*
ParMol* made to match
aeathr e
«so*sa Renair* net
ooa
ese»ot*S
m
HXSONaSQ)
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY.
. f*®f 9 Mh
soiJWTJ.?—
00
fW**
• •
QQQG 33
im« f m»mm
W 9& 9 mm
ZMIOZfcTZET’S
NEW |ZEAI AND*,
HERBAL REMEDIES.
TESTIMOXIAXS
From the Soudan Contingent! Hospita
Corps; also from eminent Doctors and
Studenfe.from Sydney Hospital.
wm.
m-
MB:
m
m
HIM® TAWHIAG
MONK'S
PI IE MIXTURE.
2a. 6d. per Bottle.
Aak tot it and take no substitute.
It 1b an invaluable cure. See testimonials.
3vioisrK: j 3
Cholera, Dysentery, Diante Mixture,
A positive ware. Sold by all Chemists.
2s. 6d. per bottle.
IMIOUSTIKI’S
NEURALGIA lIXTUPE,
2s. 6d. per bottle,
Sole Agents:
MATHEY, NATHAN & GO.,
1.201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY ;
nBKN» ISSS
iIfILITTLB COLLINS STREET EAST, MELBOURNE.
MINING EXCHANGE HOTEL,
GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
The Central Hotel. Private Sitting Room.
Rendezvous for all parties engaged in mining
business.
H. G. BAILES, Proprietor.
COMMEKCIAL HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
FIRST-CLASS Accommodation tor Commer-
cial Gentlemen and Families. Private sitting
rooms without extra charge. Plunge and Shower
Bath. Billiards (Alcook’a). First-class chef.
Charges strictly moderate. Wines and spirits of
the best brands, Man meets every steamer,
HANRAN, Junk,, Proprietor.
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
Contracting Carriers,
FORWARDING AGENTS,
Head Office: Townsville, N, Queensland,
G. S CURTIS,
Auctioneer & Real Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
MR. BOLTON (of the firm of Lowry and
Bolton) wishes to inform the numerous
friends of the Firm and the travelling public that
he has gone to Mount Morgan to take charge of
the SUNBURST HOTEL, which will henceforth
be carried on under his personal supervision.
Sunburst Hotel, Mount Morgan, centrally situated,
and facing the celebrated Mountain. Persons visit-
ing the celebrated Mountain will flndbvery comfort
and convenience to greet them on their arrival.
BILLIARD TABLE AND PIANO ON THE
PREMISES, also STABLING for the accommoda-
tion of Thirty Horses, and a good PADDOCK
within five minutes’ walk of the Hotel. Coaches ,
DAILY EROM( AND TO ROCKHAMPTON,
Note the Address—
MICHAEL BOLTON
(Of the Firm of Lowry & Bolton),
SUNBURST HOTEL,
MOUNT MORGAN,
m
fjIHH!
REMINGTON
TYPEWRITER
wad time, writing much falter
le«* than
wSJw | „ PH Beautiful
may be taken In the u»ual manner In the letter-;
wholesale and retail by the «ole agenta,
Haw* labour, stationery, and time, writing mt
than espert pen-men, and condensing matter to
one-half the space occupied by pen writing.
IMRAY ft GO.,
410 Kentj-street,
c
■
A
P
manufacturers I
A IMPORTERS OF .
i «<&*-—-■■■ ’-rf
HATS CAPSJt
438 CEORCE ST
SYDNEyf
H otf"
GRAND n
bundabbb®-
OT :Jr 81 nf( fi
FINEST SAMPLE
PLUNGE AND SBOW® B
! lot
Stood Stabling, and Loose Bo
— —*- J JSW
DRAWING-KOOMJ' 00
Having engaged a
bo outer for the public *» *
ALF. P-
J l,
USTON PROCJOB
“ triumph ”
ikon's Rorißß svs***^° r
E. O. ELLI OT* S fpj/
T KENTST^^gf^ o^
!PHE GREAT
OHABLOTTE-rIACB A* jjj
L. HA-N/V',
OF
88, SPIRITS,^
jn’B, Walker 2
.’a Shamrock and Bur* ~
am Whisky
y’B * Cognac •• * ',#l
*** „ »• #> wf
*to m , ~ “ «• fc/j
Bum ’’ ** 1
indy and WhißWe® jj,,-
I CASE
iU "nil {ot ral
afforded to Vtoto «i£ jwL
conducted
Uingtop (N.Z-). w “ tfce utio» fl os® 11
" receive every », ffS y« ° u
rits, and Beers »
i on file.*
6406
M
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
NEWE
ST fp
HIGHt
r<;T CO
Ifl
ji
L
65Sg V
m
hi. Pin street.
fbhf


The Bulletin
Vol. B—No. 864
SATURDAY, AUGUST 20, 1887.
Pric M.
“Lying Lips are an Abomination to the Law.”
JUSTICE JNNES: “OH, YOU WICKED MAN I I’LL STRIKE YOU-WITH A FEATHER!


THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable In Advanoe, only).
Per annum " ,9 s - JJJ*
Half-yearly - - - - O 12s. Oa
Quarterly - - - - O 6s. 6d
All money orders, ohoQUSS, and registered letters
payable to the proprietors,
The Bulletin newspaper Company, Lim,
to whom orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances are to be addressed,
NOTICE.
By (ending direot to The Bulletin Offioe twenty shillings
sterling— whioh yon may pay by Post Offioe Order, One-
pound Note, or stamps of any Australian colony—you oan
Have Thb Bulletin posted regularly to you e?ery week for
a year.
This offer Is not open to residents of Bydney. In that olty
Thb Bulletin Is not delivered by mail, but Is entirely in
the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to Inter-
fere.
THE BULLETIN,
SATURDAY, AUGUST 20, 1887.
The Functions of Juries.
A large area of newspaper space is con-
stantly devoted to chronicling and criticising
the performances of Judges in the sen-
tencing of convicts. In nearly every case of
sufficient interest to attract the curiosity and
fixed attention of the public the punishment
awarded the prisoner by the Judge, after
the jury have pronounced the word
“ Guilty, " is generally regarded as more or
less unsatisfactory. Too often the public
mind receives “quite a shock” from the
evident injustice of the sentence. Within
the past few weeks, for instance, a man has
been ordered four years’ hard labour for
stealing a sheep worth ten shillings, while
another was allowed to go free after pleading
guilty to the stealing of £46 ; a man con-
victed of purloining large sums partly by
way of embezzlement and partly by breach
of trust has got off with two years’ imprison-
ment, while another convicted of a like
offence, but with the difference that the
amount involved in his delinquencies did not
exceed a few shillings, was made to suffer
penal servitude for five years. In offences
against the person a similarly strange method
of dealing out punishments has been abund-
antly illustrated by recent judgments ; and at
length it has come to be considered that the
Judges are guided by a rule to the effect that
the more heinous the offence the shorter and
more lenient the punition. The Judges
themselves are often in doubt as to what
sentence to pass. They often confess to be
puzzled even as to the punishment pre-
scribed by law ; and we have examples of
one sentencing a man to seven years’ hard
labour for accidentally killing a calf, and
another sentencing a butcher-boy with
scarcely less severity for neglecting to account
for sundry shillings, the property of his
master, and both these trained and highly-
paid experts averring that, though they
would willingly have inflicted lighter punish-
ment, the law compelled them to ordain no
less. It is true that these Judges subse-
quently found that they were in error. But
this does not in the least help to augment
our faith in Crown-appointed functionaries,
or their skill in interpreting the law.
* * *
The numerous and egregious failures of
Judges in the apportionment of punishments
suggests the urgent need of radical reform.
Two measures in that direction present
themselves for consideration. One has to do
with the appointment of judges, the other
with the functions of juries. The existing
method of making judges in Australia is ob-
viously bad. They are placed in their high
offices, practically for life, for “ reasons ”
which will not bear a moment’s investiga-
tion. One man wields influence of a politi-
cal nature, another has personal claims on a
Minister accidentally in office for a few
months ; while another climbs on to the
judicial bench via the complaisance of a
female relative. In one way or another,
well nigh every judge—forthere areaboutfive
honorable exceptions —in Australia may be
said to have bought his position. And, of
course, men who have purchased a right to
wield large powers do not neglect the wield-
ing business. Even where the Judge passes
a lenient sentence—that is, where the culprit
has made a big steal and has correspondingly
large influence —he never neglects to expati
ate on what he might do in the shape of
inflicting punishment if he chose. “You
have rendered yourself liable to ten years’
hard labour, young man, and I could order you
to be herded with the vilest criminals, but, in
consideration of the circumstances of your
youth, your previous good conduct, and the
respectability and wealth of your friends, the
sentence of the court is that you be detained
in custody only during three calendar
months.” This is the stereotyped mole of
addressing “ respectable ” convicts from the
bench. V aen a convict does not appear to
have friends or influence, his Honor, as a
rule, unless in a very sensational case,
simply frowns upon him with consummate
severity, and orders the fullest term of
incarceration and punishment the law allows,
without waste of words.
* * *
To bring judicial decisions and sentences
into decent agreement with common justice,
evidently the first step is to institute popu’a"
election as the means of appointment. The
men who administer the law ought to be
elected to office, just the same as the men
who make the law, and for the same term.
If Mr. Justice Innes, of New South Wales,
stood in fear of confronting in due course
the public at tie ballot-box, there is a remote
possibility that he might have more carefully
weighed his words ere he indulged in that
ludicrous apology for fraud in connection with
the Kurrajong swindles. If that peculiar spe-
cimen of “ the appointed by the anointed
had to face the chances of re-election to
office to-morrow, the colony in which he
exercises the enormous powers of a
Supreme Court Judge would undoubtedly
be spared any further infliction of his
presence on the Bench. But political
progress in these communities is slow ; and
many years will elapse before the people
suffering under the eccentricities of Judges
appointed by the Crown —that is to say by a
set of designing politicians —will insist upon
taking the business into their own hands.
Meanwhile it is worth considering the other
direction in which measures of reform might
fittingly be taken. So long as Judges are
the creatures of the Executive Government,
so long should their powers be confined
within narrow and well-guarded limitations.
The jury is the proper authority for deciding
what punishment should be inflicted on a
criminal, not the Judge—at all events, not
the Judge with which the Australian people
are familiar. If the Judges were selected
in the first place by the people, and were
amenable to public opinion thereafter, it
would be reasonable to clothe them with the
power of ordering the imprisonment for any
term they chose to name, or the hanging, of
offenders against the law ; but as things go,
the placing of such power in their hands is
to ignore the dicta of all experience and of
reason. The jury that tries an accused per-
son and finds him guilty should also have to
determine the maximum punishment he
merits for his crime.
* * *
This may seem a novel theory; but it is
not so. It is actually carried out in certain
quasi-criminal trials. There are many
wrongs for which a sufferer enjoys the
choice of two remedies. He may lay a
criminal information, or institute a civil
action for the recovery of damages. In some
cases he can do both. But mark the vast
difference of function on the jury’s part in the
two classes of actions. In the criminal pro-
ceedings the jury has simply to declare
whether or not the defendant is guilty, and
has no voice whatever in the matter of
punishment. In the civil proceedings, on
the other hand, the most important duty of
the jury is to measure the damages, if the
finding is for the plaintiff. How absurd and
intolerable would any other arrangement
be ! For it is in the amount of damages
awarded the plaintiff that the jury expresses
the degree of the defendant’s offending, and
the precise punishment he should suffer. If
in an action, say, for libel, the jury merely
found a verdict for the plaintiff and left the
question of damages—that is, the question
of punishment merited by the defendant—to
the Judge, obviously the result would be un
satisfactory, for the Judge would be in-
capable of measuring in his finding the degree
of the wrong conduct to be punished, as it
appeared to the minds of the tribunal which
decided that there was wrong conduct. To
limit the jury’s function to the simple issue
of guilt or no guilt argues an indifference to
the patent fact that there are innumerable
degrees of guilt. Yet it is under such a
limitation, based on such a profound con
tempt for reason and sense, that juries in
criminal cases perform their task—a limita-
tion from which juries in civil cases are free,
possibly because the class of people concerned
in civil trials is, as a rule, “respectable”
and influential.
* * *
Often jurymen are staggered, after finding
a verdict of “guilty,” to hear the Judge pro-
nounce a sentence on the convict immeasur-
ably out of proportion to their sense of the
convict’s culpability. “If I had known or
suspected he would have got ten years I
would have sat up all night for a different
verdict,” is the sort of language one hears
constantly from the lips of jurymen, aston-
ished at the effect of their own finding.
That such a wretched state of things should
be allowed to exist, with the prospect
of continuance, is monstrous. The needful
reform, however, is not likely to be soon
carritd out. In New South Wales, where,
perhaps, the evils flowing from the ineffi-
ciency and wrongheadedness of judges are
more intense, and of greater magnitude
than in any other country under the sun
outside of Russia and Turkey, it is impossible
to raise any public opinion on a matter of
this kind. The j.olitical life of the country
has been prostituted by a set of dealers in
platitude and trickery of the Parkes’ stamp;
and another crew of place-hunters and
hangers-on are ever ready to help stifle any
incipient express’on of opinion by howling
to ilie ltaieriess people that reforms of any
importance must of necessity be advanced
only by men of weight and social standing.
Nevertheless, the time, though still remote,
is gradually approaching when fundamental
changes will be vociferously demanded. The
people already perceive the evil, and that is
the beginning of the end. "When Stephen
made a great splash with bis Criminal Law
Amendment Act, a vague sort of impression
was induced to the effect that the new sta-
tute was a measure of drastic reform ; and
that so soon as it got into operation all
cause of complaint would be removed.
But the Criminal Law Amendment Act
is scarcely anything beyond a consoli-
dation of previously existing laws; and
so far from doing good it has done an
immense deal of harm by galvanising into
fresh vigor many a hoary convict-time
savagery worthy only of old New South Wales
or modern Dahomey. It has re-authorised
several barbarous modes of punishment that
were becoming obsolete, and has frequently
caused much mischief owing to its somewhat
imperative language being mistaken by the
judicial geniuses of the period as leaving
them no option but to inflict the highest
term of detention specified. And in the
all-important matter of procedure the Act
has left things in the same unhappy state as
before. If improvement does not soon
take place by some process of spontaneity,
the people, we think, will rise up and in-
sist on changes such as we have suggested
—especially, there are grounds for hoping
and believing, in the one aiming at the
enlargement to their natural dimensions of
the functions of jurors.
The Spirit of Democracy.
Recently several enthusiastic but thick-headed
correspondents have been permitted to All many
columns of a Sydney daily with letters written to
decide whether Monarchy or Republicanism is the
better form of government. The space might have
been well occupied had the discussion been
directed to the proof of any material point, but
such was not the care. The misguided disputants
expended all their energies in the attempt to
prove which was the cheaper , thinking doubtless
that the matter of £ s. d. was the only one that
could affect the question. This error is not
peculiar to geniuses of the Ga m gee stamp ; there
are on the contrary many men who really possess
some ability and yet confine their argument to the
side issue of finance when comparing the relative
value of the two systems. Such being the case, it
cannot be too strongly urged that the compara-
tively low coat of a Republican form of govern-
ment is in reality one of its least important
advantages. The spirit of Democracy is not to be
measured by a mere monetary standard; there
are virtues in that system so conspicuous and
brilliant that in contemplating them we entirely
overlook the sordid advantage of mere cheapness.
Even if the Primrose Leaguers, the Tankerville
Bennets, and Gamgees of the community—
whose habits of thought are as foreign to Aus-
tralia as are the thoughts of a Chinese Joss-house
official—could prove that it was cheaper to keep
an army of Germans in royal state than to subsi-
dise a president and senators, they could not
advance their Imperial cause one single step by
means of such proof. Yet they and their fol-
lowers do well tfi confine their argument to the
question of expense, for although they must be
inevitably beaten in their contention even on this
ground, it is the only one upon which any possible
comparison can be made. On no other platform
can the Imperialists venture; on no other ground
can they offer the semblance of a struggle.
* * *
Fatuous admirers of England’s limited mon-
archy, catching hold of the garment bequeathed
by the late Mr. Ananias, have sometimes ven-
tured to suggest that Great Britain is a pure
Democracy* Impudence stands aghast at the
statement. Britain a Democracy with an heredi-
tary ruler on the throne, hereditary lords monopo-
lising the first House of Legislature, and an
hereditary noble maintaining himself as Premier
by aid of another hereditary noble, the Marquis of
Hartington 1 The contention would be honoured
by derision. Flat denial of such a suggestion
would be extravagant and fulsome flattery.
Democracy, when only men of property can vote,
and even these are restrained by the influence of
hereditary title-bearers ! Democracy, when par-
sons, prelates, and a religion are forced upon a
powerless proletariat! Democracy, when the
eldest son is enabled to legally rob his younger
brothers of any share of their father’s lands!
Democracy, when caricatures of manhood, such as
Cambridge, Battenberg, Leiningen, Saxe-
Weimar, and the rest of the noble unemployed
are forced as pensioners upon the nation!
Democracy never sanctioned such outrages as
these. Government of the people by the people
and for the people is utterly opposed to govern-
ment of the people by the 1 monopolists for the
monopolists. Under the Britieh system the first
essential of Democracy is absent. In place of
equal rights being granted to all, the privilege of
most is usurped by the privilege of a few ; instead
of there being equality of opportunity, the acci-
dent of birth is permitted to be the arbiter of the
destiny of individuals; in place of equal
opportunities of a share in the work of Govern-
ment, supreme power is given by the right of
heredity to one who may perchance be the cham-
pion idiot of the nation. “ The daughter of a
hundred earls ” empowered to become ancestress
of a line of unborn nobles, never was produced
by a system of Democracy ; the “ claims of long
descent ” are foreign to such a state. Gurth and
his descendants could never be thralls to Cedric
and his descendants ; the Nevilles and the
Howards could not oppress the Hodges through
long centuries under any other than a monarchical
and aristocratic system. Only under such a
system could a lord “ a little lower than his
swine ” tyrannise over a peasant “ born a king by
right divine ; ” only under such a system could a
Welf and a W ettin hold the place of power for
more than one week, Under monarchical govern-
ment privileges conceded to a Deerhurst and a
Dudley are denied to a Bright and a Gladstone,
and religion is made a monopoly for the profit of
men some of whom would be more usefully em-
ployed picking oakum and stacking blue-metal.
* * *
The influence of hereditary right and privilege
is far-i eaching and powerful. It. permeates all
grades of society, it controls all the relations of
individuals of the community. It transforms in-
dependence into blind subserviency, and makes
caitiffs and thralls of men who were endowed
with the rights of freedom. When once it is ad-
mitted that kingly power, prerogative, and privi-
lege, are conferred not by human sanction, but by
title of descent, the claim of lesser rulers to exercise
other privilege by the same right of birth, must
follow as a logical fact. If kings may rule be-
cause they are first in the royal line, so Norfolk
may wield the power of a peer became he is the
heir of his ancestor. If it be granted that Heaven
sends kings, it is clear enough that peers are divinely
appointed likewise. And if peers derive their right
in such manner it is no effort of reason to prove
that the aristocracy and the eldest sons of aristo-
crats are also appointed by Divine interference in
mundane affairs. It may sometimes be wondered
that, such brutal kings, swinish nobles, and des
picable eldest Bons are appointed by heaven, but
if their authority is conceded all such doubts are
useless and vain. A king may be an idiot or a
scoundrel, but he is the heir, and therefore right-
fully placed on the throne. A peer may be a
Deerhurst, a Cairns, a Marlborough, or a
Newcastle, but being a peer by inheritance is
necessarily empowered to block the progress of
reform by voting in the House of Lords. Thus
doo3 the heredity of kingly office infect the condi-
tion of all persons in the kingdom. Admit that
the right of royalty is indefeasible, and all other
class rights, privileges, and monopolies may be
straightly deduced from identical premises by the
same course of reasoning.
* * *
The chief merit claimed for the English political
system is that it secures stability of government
by keeping a balance of power between the three
estates of the realm. The king, the lords, and
the people hold each other in check, preventing
either of these estates from usurping power. The
effectiveness of this arrangement may be at once
conceded. So thoroughly have kings and nobles
held the people in check that although eight cen-
turies have passed since the Conquest, the majority
of men are still without votes, and the nobles and
kings still retain the privileges of government and
the profits of their class monopolies. From a
Tory standpoint no system could be more
admirable than that of England, except perhaps a
purely military despotism—a despotism upheld by
soldiers, instead of, as in England, by policemen
and by law. Progressive legislation in Great Bri-
tain is the result of displacement of the balance of
power. Only when the system breaks down is it
possible for any political advance to be made. It
broke down at Runnymede, and when Charles I.
was dethroned, and to a lesser extent the balance
is displaced whenever a Premier is found able to
“take occasion by the hand and make the nari'ow
bounds of freedom wider yet.” Every measure
of general importance is the outcome of a fierce
struggle between the privileged and non-privi-
leged classes. “Pull devil, pull baker,” is an
accurate four-word description of the English
polity and government. Under a Democracy, the
laws, instead of representing the spoils of victory
over a conquered class of the community are
“broad-based upon the people's will," and, having
been made by the people, will be upheld by the
people. Parties in the State may support while
other parties oppose any measure, but these are
parties endowed with equal rights, privileges, and
opportunities. The “common-senseof most” can
never in a Democracy be made to subserve the
tyranny of the privileged few. In such a state the
rights of some are never permitted to override the
political right of all, and a man attains to
that station which, by the testimony of popular
acclaim he is best fitted to adorn : no one is per-
mitted to rob another of his birthright of liberty
by asserting a mean claim by descent. Equal
opportunity of attaining to power is given to every
member of the community, and all have equal in
herent power of retaining their equal shares of
privilege and of right. These are among the ad-
vantages foreign to Monarchy, peculiar to Demo-
cracy. These are points which the Imperial
Gamqees, and Tankerville Bennets venture
not to notice in the comparison of the systems ;
and these are some of the reasons why every man
who is Australian in sentiment—not Australian in
his domicile only—will look upon the Imperialists
of this colony as misguided aliens, whose traitorous
designs upon our native liberty are to be watched,
opposed, and remorselessly pulverised.
The Weekly Dispatch (London) thus
concludes an article on “ Oar Veiled Republic ” :
“ The danger to the monarchical form is two-fold- flunkey-
isra and extravagance. If the occupant of the throne for
the time being is moderate in his demands on the public
purse, and if the language of courtiers is kept within reason-
able limits, the Monarchy may last for another generation,
or even longer. But its ultimate fate can hardly be a
matter of doubt. No institution can be permanent that is
not real. Eith‘r royalty will reacquire its lest position, or it
will disappear. Every organ in the body politic, as in tie
body natural, that ceases to do its work, shrivels up, A king
in a true commonwealth is as useless as feet to a serpent,
and as a serpent cannot afford to nourish useless members,
so a time must come when in the State the outward form
will harmonise with the inward substance ; and, just as
Rome eventually dropped Republican forms and openly ac
cepted Imperial despotism, so England will ultimately dis-
card Monarchical forms and become frankly a Republic.
There can be little doubt that the Jubilee celebration of
1887 partakes of that interest and pathos which Dr. Johnson
remarked attach to anything that is done for the last time


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Keristian Benevolence
The S.M. Herald is filled with pious wrath
because the committee of the local Benevolent
Asylum admit indigent women for accouchement
irrespective of their beiDg married or single. The
least the managing body can do, the Herald
thinks, is to put the unmarried women in a
separate ward, so that they may “keenly feel
their position,” but “far more vigorous measures,”
it goes on to argue, are required in order to purify
society and clear the committee of the charge of
fostering immorality and vice. One of this in-
genious journal’s plans is to “ sternly refuse
admission to single women ” who have ever pre-
viously laid in in the Asylum, and to make “ that
rule known widely, so that it might work out its
due results.” “If we must have an institution to
remove difficulties from the pursuit of immorality
and vice,” the pre-eminently Keristian organ pro-
ceeds to contend, “it should stand by itself and
bear an appropriate name.” This proposal to
“ sternly refuse” succour to a woman in childbed
• because she bad neglected to conform to the
usages of polite society is in keeping with
the general tenor of the doctrines preached in the
columns of the self-righteous and Pharisaical
Herald, and is therefore hardly matter for sur-
prise. Yet it does seem almost too grossly in-
human to have come from even that perennial
source of sanctimonious heartlessness. “ One
touch of Nature,” we are wont to believe,
“ makes the whole world kin.” If there is any
“ touch of Nature” calculated to work this sink-
ing of distinctions, surely it is when the spectacle
is presented of a woman—whether she be a
throned monarch or a poor social outcast- suffer-
ing as the mothers of all mankind have suffered,
and needing help to soften the pangs of approach-
ing maternity. Even in the case of brute beastp,
one naturally does what one can in the way of
ameliorating the conditions as far as practicable,
and one does not stop at such times to make in-
quiries as to paternity or the circumstances there-
of. The Herald, however, : can calmly
talk of “sternly refusing” assistance to
a woman in such straits, unless she can
produce “marriage lines.” The snutllebuster-
ing gentleman who wrote the leader in question
probably forgets that the original ground on
which eleemosynary lying-ia hospitals were estab
lished was to succour homeless women —that is,
women with neither husbands nor friends, cast
out into the world by the merciless cruelty of
conventionalism and Keristian bigotry. It is the
married women who really have no business in
these asylums, if any distinction between the two
kinds is to be drawn. But no distinction should
be drawn any more than in the case of patients
claiming admission into the Sydney Hospital. If
a woman needs help, in God’s name yield it her.
She may not have attended the Pitt-strect Chapel
regularly, and may not have fec’d a parson to
“bless ’’the connection which lead to her neces-
sity. But when she knocks at the asylum door it
is not reasonable to enter into those matters ; and
we sincerely trust the Benevolent Society will not
follow the inhuman recommendation of the pious
Herald, and go in for investigating the past life
of every applicant- for help with the view of
“sternly refusing” it to all who are not quite
up to the Keristian standard of excellence.
♦
*' Our Chinese Fell©w-subjects.”
General Wdnb Ho is a magnificent spy, but a
very poor ambassador. His powers of observation
are great and his acuteness more tban sufficient
for the role of State-sneak as plajed by him in
Australia. But he is too impulsive for ambas-
sadoiial duty. He cannot keep silence when the
desire to brag lays hold of him. He showed this
in Sydney upon two memorable occasions, and he
has again betrayed himself in Brisbane. Indig-
nant at the proposal to put an import duty of £lOO
on every Celestial landing in Queensland, he
openly defied the local Government to carry their
project into effect. “ The Chinese Government,” he
said, “ would make representations to the Im-
perial Government which were unlikely to be
ignored.” That’s how the pock-pittei Mongol
has Australia on the hip, and he knows it.
Hongktng is as much a British colony as any in
Australasia. England is our mother country and
Hongkong is our brother country. In the opium-
soaked debauchee of the dens of Hongkong and
Shanghai, Australian citizens are forced to recog-
nise as a fellow-subject of the British Empire ; to
poll-tax such a one would be to the Imperial
vision as iniquitous an act as to tax a Canadian
"or a Cape colonist upon his landing here. The
vilest Mongolian that ever breathed can defeat
any restriction Act that may be passed, if he takes
the trouble to get naturalisation papers before
he leaves his British home in China. To
raise the poll-tax to £lOO would simply have
the effect of increasing the business transacted
at the naturalisation registry in Hongkong.
And if the Australian legislatures, unitedly or
singly, exacted the poll-tax from every Celestial,
whether naturalised or not, the defiance of Wung
Ho would be made eftectual—“ the Chinese
Government would make representations to the
Imperial Government, which would not be ig-
nored,” and then the mother country would inter-
fere on behalf of our brother country. The coun-
try which sent us such aliens to Australian
thoughtas Bishop Barry, Tankervilleßennett,
and other Imperialists, would in justice to the
subjects of the Empire interfere on behalf of
the brethren of W.ung Ho—aliens to our own
people in habit and custom as they are aliens to
decency, to honesty, and to all municipal law.
There is but one remedy for the disaster which
Wung Ho has threatened to inflict upon Aus-
tralia—the challenge which he has issued must
be, now or hereafter, as boldly answered. “The
dear old mother country ” must be informed that
whether citizens or Eot, the human slush emptied
oat of Horgkong gutters on to Australian shores,
naturalised or not, must be made to pay duty
here—not ad valorem, in proportion to its worth,
but in average proportion to its aggregate loath-
someness. That must be Australia’s message
spoken squarely to England. But who is to send
such a message ? The courtly Sir Samuel,
who has just got a title, and has iust
grovelled to Imperial snobs, and the snobs
who grovel to Imperial snobs ? Sir J. W.
Howner, whose emotion at the Imperial Confer-
ence drowned all the small store of virility which
be possesses ? Or Sir Henry Parkes, whose
tongue is yet moist with the slime of his Jubilee
speeches ? None of these could send such a mes-
sage. It would be foreign to their ingrained habit
°E grovel, opposed to their cringing, crawling cus-
tom. It is an Australian message and can only be
fitly spoken by those who are Australians in
thought and boldly independent in their spirit.
The man who is mean enough to grab a title can
never reach high enough to comprehend the
Patriotic sentiment comprised in that inspiring
niotto, “ Australia for the Australians."
Pig upon Bacon.
Judge Innes, of New South Wales, is not good at
explaining himself away. In his letter to the
S.M. Herald re the Kurts-Levy affair, which,
we may remark, was originally shown up by The
Bulletin, he deals so gently with the lawyer-
cum-tailor syndicate that his utterances read like
an essay by pig upon bacon edited by pork ; but,
despite his exertions, the latter end of the cheap
pant B-maker and the pants-maker’s dummy is
worse than the first. In his place on the bench
Judge Innes declared that the dolt who allowed
himself to be cheated deserved to lose his money,
and that the lawyer and the tailor who practised
on his ignorance deserved to keep it, and to this
he now adds the explanation that the victims were
deceived by themselves and by no one elEe.” The
tailor s advertisements and circulars and lottery
tickets had nothing to do with it; neither had
the plans exhibited at the emporium of cheap
suits with an extra pair of pants thrown in, which
same plans represented the howling desert in the
Kurrajorg Mountains as divided into streets with
numbered allotments; and the suave party who
washed his hands with invisible soap and with
impercsptible water as he explained how certain
portions had been taken for church, schools,
hotel, and other buildings, was also guiltless of all
connection with the matter. Without any out-
side influence whatsoever, 1529 people rushed
Kurts with money to the amount of over
£lOOO, simply because they had decided to de-
ceive themselves, and the fact that so many people
were “ taken ” the same way, and all rushed to
the same man, and gave him exactly the same
amount of money under the same circumstances
was a ni°re coincidence or mental phenomenon.
Judge Innes denounced Kurts circular as being
filled with ‘’lies gro’s, open, palpable,” and
where lies are there must be a liar ; but the fact
that 1529 people acted on this lying circular is set
down as proof that the document did not deceive
them—they doeeived themselves, and “the most
gullible of dolts ” could not be pitied under such
circumstances. By way of bolstering up this drivel,
Judge Innes now adds :
I know, of course, that no folly, however egregious, on
the part of one who is defrauded is any oxouse to the do-
fratider, as I pointed out in the course of the argument when
Mr. Hey don was urging the transparent character of the un-
truths put forward in the circular. Wnere fraud is perpe-
trated it is, doubtless aggravated by the fact of its victim
being a person of weak intellect."
Apparently, however, when there are 1529 vic-
tims of weak intellect the fraud is not aggravated,
and the ends of justice are met by the dupes los-
ing their money and being loaded with contempt
and derision in open court, while the men who
took them in keep the coin, and one of them is
‘reprimanded.” But while Judge Innes sympa-
thises with “ the solicitor (poor fellow!) who only
got £1 Is.” he goes out of his way to state that the
swindled multitude have “got the allotment of
land that they bought.” As a matter of fact they
have done nothing of the kind. The land is there
standing upon end, but the allotment 5 ', the streets,
the church, school, hotel, and all the rest are in-
visible, and the cnly place where the un-
happy buyer can even view his property is
on the plan at Kurts’ we’l-shrunk pants
emporium. Even the valueless title-deeds appear
to he illegal, the lawyer’s fee of £3 3s. having, it
is alleged, been inserted as purchase-money in
order to bring the stamp duty down from £l—
on a voluntary conveyance—to ss. charge-
able on an ordinary transfer, and if this should
prove to be the case it is for the Governnfent to
consider whether they will content themselves by
collecting the difference—some£l2oo—by levying,
per bailiff, on any available pairs of trousers in
the Kurts warehouse, or whether they will
endeavour to do something else to these enter-
prising individuals. The alleged fraud on the
Commissioner of Stamps is not “ aggravated by
the victim being a person of weak intellect,” but,
notwithstanding, it might be worth that gentle-
man’s while to overhaul this latest aspect of the
Kurts-Levy land-enterprise.
+
Wise’s Moral Basis.
Attorney-General Wise undertook last week to
convert the Protectionists of Balmain from their
fatuous belief, but he did not score a triumph.
He was interrupted continuously by what the
Freetrade papers call “an obstructive band.” and
he did not seem to convince any body in particular.
Nor is his failure matter for astonishment. He
talked more than the usual amount of unadulter-
ated nonsense that does duty for “ argument ”
among the Cobdenist monomaniacs, and shovelled
out the ancient assumptions that Freetraders
possess a monopoly of knowledge and wisdom
with more than the customary audacity. “ Our
most dangerous enemy,” he said, “is ignorance;
for wherever the light of knowledge penetrates,
there the good tree of freedom (of trade) rears its
fruitful head.” Then all the peoples in the world,
including a vast minority of the British, are
steeped in profound ignorance, for they are ail
more or less bitterly hostile to Wise’s tree with
the fruitful head, and have chopped it down till
scarcely an isolated specimen can be found on the
earth’s surface. Having proved to his own entire
satisfaction that Protectionism and crass ignorance
are convertible terms, this genius went on to
illustrate the unspeakable moral beauties of Free-
trade. “We have on our side,” he claimed,
“ the great force of moral truth—that force which
in the long run confounds all sophistries and
brings foolish plans of men to nothingness.” This
is an argument drawn from bigotry, not from
reason. It is only what Justice Innes styles a
“dolt” who keeps on flattering himself that he
has constantly “ the great force of moral truth”
to back up his faith. Men of sound sense and
decent education are content to suppose that even
those holding, and strenuously fighting for, dia-
metricaUy opposite opinions have a moaicum of
moral truth on their side. But, not satisfied with
having “moral truth’* as a foundation for his
creed, Wise dragged in Christianity as a prop—
which, we may here observe, was remarkably
rough on his colleague, Salomons. “Can any-
one doubt,” he asked with the air of a philosopher
stating a self-evident proposition, “Can anyone
doubt which of the two policies (Protection and
Freetrade) rests upon the sounder moral basis, or
which should have the support of Christian and
right-thinking men A large number of
voices were raised to express doubt, but Wise
went straight on, jabbering away about “moral
principles,” “moral bases,” “peace and good-
will on earth,” and other pretty things, all
apropos of nothing in particular, yet all held
up to his audience as though they formed the
warp in the fabric of which Freetrade was the
woof. The upshot of the whole argument came
simply to the fine old Imperialistic theory, that
the Australian colonists ought to shape their
policy with a view strictly to conserving and pro-
moting the interests of the mother country. Wise
got himself on such an elevated moral plane at
length, that he could see nothing save the ‘ 4 suf-
fering poor; of England.” As for the suffering
poor of Australia, it was their duty, and ought to
be “ a source of some pride ” to them, if they
were “ true Australians,” to open up to the peo-
ple of England “a source of lucrative employ-
ment. He then attempted the onerous task of
proving that Freetrade is not alone morally cor-
rect, but is the more profitable policy. The peo-
ple of Now South Wales ought not only to feel
proud of their righteousness in feeding the suffer-
ing poor of Europe—though it is a fat share that
falls from the tables of the wealthy to the suffer-
ing poor, Mr. Wiseacre —but they ought to rest
happy in the pure and simple faith of Cobden-ism,
inasmuch as Freetrade puts money into the purses
of the people who follow its beneficent doctrines.
Here he got a good deal mixed over the “ balance
of trade,” and the “drain of gold,” holding
that we discard all principles of morality
in the matter of paying for the excess of imports
over exports. He had been examiniog a little
book at the Custom House, and couldn’t find any
record of large exportations of sovereigns. In
ten years the excess of imports over exports in
New South Wales amounted in value to no less
than £26,500.000, yet only £1,600,000 worth of
gold and silver specie was shipped away over and
above the amount received from abroad. Hence
this Mr. Wiseacre concluded, New South Wales
has contrived to steal about £25,000,000 worth of
goods in the short space of ten years—rather a
considerable theft for a people whose fiscal policy
is founded on a moral basis ! But Wise's little
book at the Custom House ” isn’t worth a
cent as an authority on this subject. If
he had looked further afield he would have
discovered that in the ten years of which
he was speaking the country borrowed one
way and another from abroad over fifty millions
sterling, and that it was out of this sum that the
value of the excess of imports was paid, the
oalance going to pay interest on the debt, and
the profics drawn from the country by absentees.
If the imports had not exceeded the exports the
proceeds of the loans would have reached the
colony for the most part in gold. As it was, wo
piled up the debt, but didn’t reciove a penny in
cash. But it is useless arguing with a man like
Wise. Freetrade to him is a religion. The little
book up at the Custom House is his Bible, in which
ho searches diligently for light on all sorts
of subjeots, from high morality down to
the exchange of specie. And just as it is a profit-
less and senseless undertaking to attempt tho con-
version of a religious bigot, so it should be beyond
the scope of any sano man’s ambition to put this
I reotrade zealot on tho track of reason.
+
Riley’s Centennial Memorial Building-
Mayor Riley has gone “ one better.” Par res'
centennial celebration scheme involves the expen-
diture of £250,000 on the laying out of a park and
the emotion of a “very small place” wherein to en-
tomb australia’sgreatdead; and no w Riley recom-
mends the city of Sydney to put up a Centennial
Memorial Building on the site of tho market in
George-street, and transmogrify the site of the
Central Po.ice Court and look-up into a “place”
or “ square,” likewise in honour of the hundredth
anniversary of Australia. The Mayor’s scheme
looks better than that of Parkes any way it is
taken. In the first place, the cost of Riley's
commemoration affair will not exceed the amount
required by Parkes for his, to start with, and
there is ground for expecting that Riley’s struc-
ture can be put up in decent style for the sum
estimated ; whilo, according to professional
opinion, the £150,000 asked by Parkes for his
State House will not half finish it. Secondly,
Riley's building wbl be useful for shops and
offices, and will yield a good return on the outlay.
And, in addition to the3e advantages, there is the
further and scarcely less important one of getting
ridof the aneientrookeries at present occupying the
ste proposed to be used. There is nothing prepos
sessing in the name selected by Riley for his struc-
ture, however, any more than there is in Parkes’
State Iloii3e. 'The City Centennial Memorial
Buildings ” reminds one of the efforts in nomen-
clature made by commercial people with such
splendidly inclusive titles as the “ United Anglo-
Australasian Mercantile, Land, Pastoral, Mort-
gige, Finance, and General Agency Company, and
the English, Scottish, Australian, and Globe
Bank; and by journalists with the “Mugabri
Times, Herald, and Telegraph, with which are
incorporated the Swagabri Advertiser andßuN-
gabriGazette.” Butthatdvfficultycan begot over.
Why not ca 1 it the Riley House, with an inscrip-
tion writ small to the effect that it is not a branch
of Riley Bros, opposite ? With a decent name
to it the whole thing would do fine. It would not
only serve to commemorate the great event of
this great country’s hundredth anniversary, but
would turn in £25,000 a year, at least bo Riley
says, for the aldermen to utilise in accord with
what Parkes calls “ the civic virtues.”
The Queen’s Wrath.
The “loyal” drivellers of Australia have a large
order on hand. Their Imperial Humpty-Dumpty
has fallen from the wall, or, more correctly, has
thrown herself off in a frenzy of cussedness ; and
Plain Bill is therefore called upon in tho Indian
summer of his days to whoop up the gang and
haul the imago back into position. All through
this weary year of Jubilee a strenuous effort has
been made to build up Victoria’s character for
generosity, sympathy, and every queenly quality.
Anecdotes, some irrelevant, some apocryphal,
some lies, pure and simple, have been raked
together from every source to prove that Brown s
employer is and always was the noblest work of
God. Her collect telegram on the occasion of the
Bulli disaster was mixed up with the fact that
she doubled up Wales—then aged four years—on
her knee, and spanked him in a way calculated to
make him howl for a week, during the progress of
some royal function long ago ; and on top of this
comes the dear old gag about how she did not
wait to put on her boots when she heard that her
uncle and predecessor was dead, but came out
in dishabille to learn that she was a Queen. But
most of these tales are old and sere, and it is
gratifying to light at last on one post-diluvian
item upon the subject of the Queen’s generosity.
The following cablegram (from a Tory source, be
it noted) is only a week old, and the aged perver-
sion about the “secret of Britain’s greatness ” may
now take a back Beat :
“ London, Wednesday.—The women of the town of Govan
(Scotland), having, in honour of the Jubilee, endowed and
furnished a hospital with beds, asked permission from the
Queen to call it the ‘Victoria Hospital,’ as a fitting and
commemorative title. Her Majesty refused to grant the
request, and expressed displeasure at the money not having
been subscribed towards the Imperial Institute.”
If this is real, even Plain Bill’s eloquence can
never, never set that image up any more, and the
Jubilee raver may hide his diminished head for
ever. But surely, surely it cannot be true that
the Queen expresses “displeasure” because she is
not allowed to haul the bed from under the Scotch
hospital cripple for the greater glory of that
elephantine fad, the Imperial Institute, and in-
sults the women of Govan because, in that great
manufacturing suburb where poverty has as-
sumed its most awful aspect, they prefer to spend
their money in relieving a fraction of the misery
around them in place of sending it to Wales and
his mob of showmen, who, by the way, never
even accounted for the funds entrusted to them on
several successive exhibitions. Surely, too, it can-
?° b « our Gracious” Queen who declines even
to lend her name to a work of mercy, and declines
as churlishly as any pawnbroker when asked
to append his autograph to the hack of a
dicky bill; who proclaims herself callous to
human suffering, and poses, like all the preceding
ltUelpiis, as a sordid, selfish, solitary worshipper
of the almighty dollar. If this is but a dream, let
i lain Bill and his fellow worshippers rise and
dispel it as the morning sun dispels the visions of
v * 8 true > them prate no more
about Victoria’s queenly qualities, and fall back
rather on her “ pre-eminence in grief,” for when
that goes all will be bung.
■ -♦
The Failure of Christian Teaching.
Last week a large number of alleged Christian
ministers, headed by the Church of England
Primate, waited on Sir Henry Parkes to explain
their inability to teach the people how to walk in
the paths of virtue and the ways of righteousness,
and to request the aid of the police in this behalf.
It appears from what Bishop Barry and his fol-
lowing told Parkes, that the unassisted efforts of
the representatives of the Apostolic Succession to
put down social irregularities had resulted in a
state of things no longer tolerable. Young girls
were walking in the ways of sin, youDg men were
also straying away from .rectitude, find the more
elderly members of the community of both sexes ■
were scarcely a whit better. Indeed, things had
come to such a pass that unless the Legislature
started in at once and enacted penal laws against
immoral conduct, a social cataclysm might soon
be expected to overwhelm the people and oast
.hem into outer darkness. The remedy suggested
by the reverend gentlemen was just such as ono
might expect. When, at tho Renaissance of
lhought, in Europe, llie soi-disant Church of
Christ could no longer keep the people in its
toils by teaching, it sought to gain its ends
with the corollary of tho rack
and fire. Similarly, tho Primate and his fellow
clericals propose to havo tho law of N.S.W. so
shaped as to enable them to scent out immorality
and inflict various forms of torture in the process
of bringing the people up to their standard of
good conduct. They desire to enjoy the light of
diving into houses of alleged ill-fame and hunting
down supposititious moral delinquents, in the
same way that the old heresy-mongerf~hunted
down heretics. They want their ideas of the
teachings of Christianity upheld by the strong
arm of the law, for they assert in effect that without
„ 9arm ot til9 law they are powerless.
Both Parkes and W isk rose well to tho occasion
for a wonder, as regards the former. Parkes
intimated that he strongly disapproved of over-
legislation of the kind requested ; and Wise
knocked the stuffing out ot the deputation’s main
contention—that females should be ‘ protected”
up to the age of 18—by showing that such a
change in the law would simply give “ wicked
designing young women increased opportune
ties ” for blackmailing, already largely availed of.
' I was prosecuting at I larlinghurst a fev? years
ago, he said, ” shortly after certain publications
were circulated here. There was a very light
calendar, containing not more than Hi or 17 cases.
Of these, nine charges were brought by women
for alleged indecent assault or attempt at rape.
As Crown prosecutor, I became convinced in my
own mind that six out of tho nine were de-
liberately trumped .up or were Lho result of
hysteria. In only one case was a conviction
secured.” And Mr. Wise pointed out furtuer
that the best clause in the bill submitted by the
deputation was one taking away the right of dis-
tress action for the recovery of rent for the occu-
pation of premises mrd as brothels. Here The
Bulletin cordially with both tho Attorney-
General and the parsons; but we would go
further, and abolish the law of distraint alto-
gether, not with the direct view ol' forcing people
into conforming to any particular rules of
morality, however, but to destroy the
indirectly demoralising influence of a privileged
class. For the rest, as Parkes and Wise sug-
gested, the present law in this reference seem 3
good enough. A higher and more Ciißisr-like
teaching and mode of life on the part of tho
bishops and clergy would be infinitely more
beneficial than any act of Parliament. Let these
reverend gentleman doff their broadcloth and fine
linen, and go, as their Master did,, among the sin-
ners whose conduct needs reform, instead of con-
fining their attention to the congenial work of
drivelling out mild platitudes to “respectable”
congregations, composed largely of the landlords
and landladies of brothels, and the moral atmos-
phere would be cleared far more speedily and
effectually than by any legislative freak capable
of berng devised.
Snobs and the Panders of Snobs.
Sydney D.T. in a recent leader makc3 a terrific
attempt to [satirise tho snobs of colonial sassioty.
It sarcastically reproves them for bowrng to a
Brassey and crouching before Carington. It
(the pronoun seems beautifully appropriate to the
journal in question) sneers at the “eager prostra-
tion of Sydney ‘society’ lately to travelling re-
presentatives of the noble order and the humiliat-
ing snubs endured in consequence,” and subse-
quently shies a little handful of mud at Lord
Brassey by stating that the “ date of creation of
the peerage, as we have lately seen, is not an ele-
ment necessary to public adulation.” There is a
force and truth in these desperate efforts at
humorous satire which can be fully appreciated
only when the recent issues of the D.T. are in-
spected. When that gold-plated peer Lord
Brassey was in Sydney the King-street organ
devoted columns daily to dreary and disgusting
drivel about our noble visitors. Lord Brassky’s
smallest act, and Lady Brassey’s emptiest utter-
ance, were chronicled to an unlimited extent
Reporters interviewed the nob’e pair and described
the “ yot” from the keelson to the cook’s galley • no
particulars were omitted that could possibly be of
the smallest interest to any inhabitant of snobdom
and an aristocratic and Imperial glow was cast
upon the fulsome show. “Hummingßee ” reeled
off columns of society slobber about “our noble
visitors ” for the especial delectation of the snob-
ocracy of Potts Point, and for the time being the
whole paper seemed to be possessed with tho
devil of toadyism. But now the revulsion has
come. The .Brasseys have gone, and the editor’s
soul may therefore again possess itself in decency
Therefore the leading columns are lent to the uso
of philippics against the whole army of toadies
panders, and fawners for whose edification
Humming Bee ’ and all the other reporters
wrote so lengthily less than a month ago. Thus
we are enabled to ascertain to a nicety the social
politics of the Daily Timeserver ; it will pander
to the very meanest of'snobs when circumstances
make it profitable to do so, but will denounce that
same class with much vigour when occasion re-
wards the attack. And when it again becomes
profitable to grovel, the literary canine will return
to his vomit; the snobbery now denounced will
soon again discover in the D.T. an organ mean
enough to pander and toady to those whom it has
so recently blasphemed for pandering and toadv-
ing to Brassey. *


The Social Purity Society and Association for the
Prevention of Immorality, a pious gang which in-
cludes a’l the male and female Chadbasds of the
community, is making a dead set at the ungodly
pictures displayed in Sydney tobacconists win-
dows. We would, with deep humility, remind
these Pharisaically pious purists that the wicked-
ness of these representations is not a circumstance
compared with the chapters of obscenity and filth
which, presumably with Primate Barry s sanc-
tion and direction, are fired from the lecterns or
Anglican churches. Disgusting descriptions of
vice in its most unnatural shapes and repulsively
minute accounts of outrages upon every canon of
decency are among the ordinary contents of the
lessons which Anglican parsons are compelled to
read to mixed congregations of men and boys and
women and girls who must listen and suffer in
silence. Passages that may be mildly described
as muck are of constant recurrence in the Angli-
can lectionary. Why does not the purist Primate
apply the rules of decency to the services in the
churches over which he pompously presides before
pitching his little yarn to the Premier about these
wicked tobacconists ? No decent person can possibly
apologise for the attempt made to push the sale of
honest or dishonest tobacco by means of pictorial
bawdiness, but nevertheless we may remind the
good Bishop and his godly followers that people
who don’t want to see dirty prints in shop win-
dows need not look at them unless they choose to
do so, but decent Anglicans who go to church
every Sunday cannot escape from the shower of
filth flung per medium of the reading of passages
selected by ecclesiastical authority. Until these out-
rages on common modesty are banished frjm
church services, no Anglican has the remotest
right to protest against obscenity discovered by
those who have searched shop windows for it.
There arealotof people in this world who seemingly
cannot bear to think that suggestive matter should
bs published by any persons who don t belong to
their own little gang.
When doctors disagree the public have to decide.
Just now the medicine men of Melbourne are
seeking opportunities to drop pizon into one
another’s soup, all along of a question of P™ses-
sional etiquette.” O! we perceive that Mrs
Grundy hath been with them—which is our
funny way of misquoting Shakespeare. The
trouble occurred thus wise. Among a crowd of
candidates for the billet of honorary physician to
the in patients of Melbourne Hospital is Ur.
Springthorpe, a rising practitioner sufficiently
young and brainy tobe envied of his more ponderous
brethren. Rather than let bis light be hid under
a bushel, the Napoleonic doctor addressed a circu-
lar to the governors and subscribers of the
Hospital, thereby following a more or less accepted
fashion For this offence the committee (or part)
of the Medical Society of Victoria decided, in
their wisdom, to sit upon the ambitious young
man, by forwarding a copy of his circular to the
Royal College of Physicians at London. Dr.
Si'RiNGTHOKi's: protested, the perfesh took sides,
and the public have virtually acquitted the prisoner
without a stain on his char ak-ter. As a matter of
fact, Dr. S.’s effusion only differed from the touting
cards and circulars of many other competitors in
being more fetching and persuasive. It was just
a c’everer “breach of etiquette” than some that
were winked at by the high-souled committee.
And there pinched the shoe. Actuated as they
were by a stern sense of jealousy, the medical
greybeards thought to stab their younger rival in
the back with his own pointed circular. ihe
chances are that Dr. Springthorpe will get a
clean bill of health from the Royal College and a
large majority at the Melbourne poll. Etiquette
is a good thing enough, but so many Melbourne
doctors go in for positive and negative advertise-
ment, in so many artful ways, that it is absurd to
raise objections in this particular instance. Every
time a hospital election is to be carried by assault
the medicos will rush “ once more into the
breach, dear friends”—of professional etiquette.
Now that the BrasseyS have cleared out, and
with the Sunbeam have faded into Papuan lati-
I ude3 Sydney l). T. has made the discovery that
its grovel and'gush to the “ distinguished visitors
was a huge mistake, and that all the time it was
allowing itself tobe gulled into a belief that the
De Bressi brand of generosity was the true one.
As after the carouse comes the headache, so the
D.T. writes remorsefully how it was taught by the
Brsssey example that—
“ A liberal exercise of charity and generosity might be
made compatible with the dictates of frugality by the simple
expedient of so performing these duties that the cost was
borne by somebody else. ’
We aho notice that the Evening. News has not
yet quite got over the junke’ing, judging by this
item:
■■ Lord and body Beassey hare given £35 to the new St.
John's Ambulance Association in Brisbane, in the establish-
ment of whi h they were instrumental.’
To help the News on to the stool of repen-
tence we assert that Lord and Lady Brassey did
nothing of the sort. The money was contributed
by the public for admission to the Sunbeam on
the understanding that it was to be handed over
to public charities, and that the owners of the
Sunbeam were but its temporary custodians.
Surely the noble pair do not wish to establish re
putations as philanthropists on the strength of
the accumulated half-crowns charged for admis-
sion to their residence—which, in fact, the Sun-
beam was for the time being—and which they
subsequently, with such odious ostentation, for-
warded for distribution among charitable institu-
tions ? It is very easy to exercise the virtue of
charity at the expense of others, but even when
practised by a British Lord, and passed as the
current article by a fulsome press, it is still as far
distant from genuine charity as the average
Chinaman is from soap and water.
■+■
Horror of horrors! The beautiful harbour of
Sydney, according to the local D.T., is rap’dly
silting up, and “ unless some remedy is afforded
the time is perhaps not beyond the present genera-
tion when it will be quite possible for large ocean-
going steamships to go aground in the channel.
Already the depth of water in some places has
been reduced from 100 feet to about 50, the pro-
cess occupying only a few years, and at the same
rate of reduction men now living may, be'ore
shuttling off tins mortal cod, have the pleasure of
driving or riding over paits upon which they were
wont to sail in the heyday of their youth. The
silt, it appears, is hard enough to make good
foundations for buildings, so the bottom of “Our
Beautiful Harbour” will erme in nicely by and
bye for building lot’. A syndicate is even now m
course of formation, with the object of acquiring
rights to several large patches at present
covered with water, but eoon, it would
seem to be covered wi'h the suburban villas
of the Calico Jemm’es. Of course the new
regions in process of being opened up for
building purposes will be sacred to the uses of the
plutocracy. No working men’s cottages will dis-
figure the future fashionable suburbs, for the
simple reason that the working man in the
southern home of Cobdenism is becoming as ex-
tinct as the mammoth at about the same rate of
speed as the harbour is silting up. It is curious
to note the composition of the silt that has been
raked up. It is composed largely of detritus from
the rocks of the surround'ng show s mingled with
bony substance in various stages of decay, metallic
matter o* a mysterious kind, and an unknown re-
markably adhesive substancs that binds the whole
together and make 3 it as hard as a boarding-house
ste»k. Various theories have been advanced as
to the rationale of the presence of these matters
at the bottom of the harbour. The minute par-
ticles Of sand can be accounted for. They have
been washed down by the ra ns from the sho:e3.
As for the bones, these are clearly the remains of
men worn out by starvation and sleeping under
the inadequate protection of Mrs. Macquarie’s
Chair. The metallic matter is evidently, we thin*,
what is le t of the sardme-tins and other metal ves-
sels in which the normal foodof aFreetrade country
is encased previous to being served at table. But
the gummy stuff that bind 3 together the other
constituents, and thus forms an indurated con-
glomerate, not quite so hard as flint, but a great
deal harder than British bayonet3—what is that,
and how came it at the bottom of Our B. Harbour 1
Scientific investigation has here of ore failed
ignominously to proffer an acceptable hypothesis ;
but careful analysis shows that it contains many
of the characteristics of exudations from the brows
of human beings suffering under severe mental
torture; and, consequently, the theory has been
suggested, though at present on somewhat insuffi-
cient data, that it is the semi-congealed sweat
given off by Freetrade leaders (Parliamentary,
journalistic, and other) whilst frantically en-
gaged in the invention of “arguments” calcu-
lated to spread their views among the residents
on the adj acent shores of the silting-up harbour.
But we are not disposed to give support to this or
any other theory at the present stage of the in-
quiry. Further informa’ion is needed, and, as
the D.T. has taken the whole Bubject in hand,
doubtless the requisite amount of knowledge will
soon be forthcoming.
-»
At a meeting recently held in Melbourrc by a
body (we use the word “body” to the exclusion
of “soul”) styling itself the Wesileyan Confer
ence Temperance and Public Morality Committee,
a resolution was passed—
-11 That, this Committee, while in accord with the provisions
of the Bill to amend the law relating to juvenile offenders
now in discussion in the House, believes th it the Bill might
be improved and the cause of pub ic morality further served
by the introduction of a clause leg dising birching.
We should just like to call attention to this mag-
nificent example of Christian tenderness, which
deserves to be written up in letters of fire.
‘ ‘ Whom the Lord loveth He chasteneth ’’—there-
fore, it is a pity these eldei-3 cannot be brought
nearer to the Lord in their own fashion. Legalise
flogging to brand the unlucky outcasts and waifs
of youthful forsakenness with the stigma of the
worst forms of crime ! Yes, and reduce them all
to the brutes you are pleased to call them. The
hasty blow of au irritated guardian may be one
thing, but the legal birch will do for the boy what
the triangles and flogger will for the man. Some-
body once wrote that the worst U3e you can put a
man to is to hang him. He was wrong. A still
worse use is to flay him, and that is what these
dearly beloved Christian brethren want to start
upon right at once. Faugh !
The Melbourne Argus, now that a few miserah’e
subordina'ea have been dismissed in connection
with the Windsor Railway accident, hastens to
kick them per medium of a leading article, in
which the following adiectivas occur stupid ”
“ careless,” “ rash,” and “ impudent.” Now, this
might be taken merely for a tax-payer s ebullition
of temper if the Hundred Goggles applied equally
forcible epithets to other equally blameable offi-
cers, but note instead the polite tenderness with
which it relates that “ Mr. John Anderson ”
(who, let us parenthesize, i 3 the man who over-
worked Gedge, and was the cauie of Blackburn s
having to be placed in a position for which he was
known to bo unfitted) “ceases to be responsible
for the working of the line 3 and takes office duties
instead.” It is not enough for poor Gedge to
know that his lack of rebellion against a
“superior” (?) officer’s pig headedmss has
slipped him out of the means of making a living
and other people out of their lives, but this con-
founded salary worshipping Argus must come
hurling its miserable taunts at him for having
been one of those to suffer by the mistake. Verily,
there is as much generosity or good taste in this
Conservative organ as there is poetry in a stink-
ing cheese.
The escaped Haynes has evidently a better
opinion of himself than of any other man in New
South Wales, and possibly than any other man in
New South Wales has of him. la a letter to the
Noose, contradicting that paper’s account of
John’s recent meeting at Lithgow. he writes :
“ Here, as elsewhere, I have cut down Protection to pure
denominationalism, and the work of general reform de-
manded by the country is likely to proceed, undiatracted by
the side is rues of denominational vengeance, however
artistically disguised ”
Here, as usual, John runs hisFreetrade on the old
basis of sectarianism, loyalism, Orangeism,
Parkes, and to hell with the Pope, and to the
little plump man’s vision Protection and Roman
Catholicism are one. It was the Pops who first
started looking after local industries, and all the
tariffs are run by bald headed monks who
never wash themselves, and Protestant countries
are all governed on a Freetrade basis, and the
Deakin of Victoria is a disguised Jesuit whose
mania for timber-duties is based on his desire to
keep up the price of locally manufactured bits of
the true cross. Also the N.S W. Catholics are
Protectionists to a man, and when they get into
power they intend to put on a cattle duty so as to
run uo the value of the ass on which Joseph fled
into Egypt, which relic they have got stowed
away somewhere awaiting a corner in mu'e?.
The whole thing is a Papist conspiracy from first
to last, and Dibbs is going to get his head shaved
and wear a cowl and go into a convent, and when
the Protectionists get into power Haynes is to be
burnt at the stake. But he won’t be burnt—not
much. John will recant first and apply the match
to PARKE’.
-♦
Attorney-General Wise, of New South Wales,
among other things, is a Liberal. But he is a
Liberal of the Hartington and Goschen breed—
with the language of Liberalism pouring in a
perennial stream from bi 3 mouth, while utterly
illiberal and reactionary measures are as coi-
stantly incubating in his b-ain. He has recently
afforded a fresh proof o* the sort of Libsral he is.
He has aided and abetted the Judges in the pro-
mulgation of a new rule, disallowing law-students
from engaging in any occupation whatsoever dar-
ing the twelve months preceding their final ex-
amination. This is a great Liberal measure, ia
all conscience ! The effect of it is to still further
increase the monopoly of the wealthy in the law
as a profession. No poor man —however talented,
however naturally gifted for the unravelling rf
legal problems—will be able now to enter the
charmed circle of the profession. Mr. Real—
we take off our hat to Real— one of the lead-
ing and mo3t conspicuously talented barristers in
Queensland was formerly a bush carpenter, and
carried on bis plebeian business of putting up
humpies while at the same time studying for the
Bar. If he had been prevented from pursu-
ing his ordinary calling during the year
previous to being called to the Bar, he
would have been forced to abandon the idea of
entering a profession for which nature had fitted
him in a pre-eminent degree, and his place would
probably have been filled by some nood e whose
father happened to have been lucky in bagging
the “unearned increment. ’ or had been unusua'ly
skilful in some form of authorised theft. The
Bar of New South Wales is no longer open to the
poor man, and Attorney-General Wise is in no
small degree responsible for this infamous return
to a state of things long since discarded as
illiberal, unjust, and impolitic—not to say
coward'y and unmanly. Mr. Wise may,
of course, argue that his acquiescence in the new
rule was merely perfunctory. But that won’t
avail him much It was his clear and bounden
duty to stand up against the Judges through
thick and thin, and resign office rather than be
a party to such a rascally measure. If he had
made a firm stand he would have been backed up
by a vast public opinion, in the face of which
their Honors would sooner or later be glad to re-
treat, and on the tide of which Wise himself
would have been carried to the proud position of
a vindicator of right and justice. His failure,
however, serves the useful purpose of showing the
sort of Liberal he is.
»
Dear Bulletin,— A vigorous, iconoclastic sort
of reformer is wanted just now in New
South Wales in connection withthe rules
for the admission of barristers. In Sir James
Martins time these rules were not
gether objectionable ; contrasted with the regula-
tions of other colonies they were merciful and
reasonable. Sir James had fought his way into
the profession and was wil'ing to give others a
chance cf doing the same Therefore the snobs of
the profession were chary of suggesting new re-
strictions to him. But with Ihe advent of Mr.
Chief Justice Darley the legal snob 3 saw their
chance, for in the new chief they recognised one
of their own kind. They induced him to impose
a new reBtric ion, whereby candidates were
obliged to wait three years for their final exami-
nation, during his very first month of office, and
recently the board of admission, of which the
Chief Justice is “ boss,” have refined upon the
former piece of tyranny by decreeing that all
students for the bar shall refrain from all work,
except the study of law, for the twelve months
immediately preceding th-dr final examination.
This ukase is directed specially against jour-
nalists who aspire to the bar, but it will
be equally effective in preventing all other
students whose livirg is dependent upon their
labour from ever reaching that select crowd of
which Sir F M. Witchcraft Darley is so nice
and retin r d a member. Gilded noodledom will re-
joice at the new rule, for its effect will merely 1 e
to make the possession of say £lOOO a necessary
qualification foi admittance to the Bar, and by
keeping out many clever men who do not possess
£lOOO will secure more firmly than ever the
monopoly which the members of the close corpora-
tion of the law already enjoy. A legislative
Nihilist with a large curiosity concerning such
Tor/ manoeuvres as the Board of Admission of
Barristers affe cts could make himself really useful
just now. To permit barristers to be the only
judges a 3 to the manner cf admittirg other bar-
riste s to share the profits of their monopoly with
th«m, is as wild a piece of lunacy as it would be
to permit the butchers of Sydney to prevent any
other butchers from opening shops in the city.
The legal monopolists now have the power of pro-
tecting their own monopoly, and they do it with
such skill that they should not bs permitted to do
it for an hour longer.—Yourp, Caxton.
The Case of William Roy.
The Bulletin has so far acknowledged subscrip-
tions to the amount of £34 os. 3d. received by it
on behalf of William Roy, the soldier who now
lies blind and paralysed in Parramatta Asylum.
As already stated, Roy wears the distinguished
conduct medal, awarded him for his gallant con-
duct at Rorke’s Drift, where, though at the time
an invalid, he rushed through the flames duriDg
the fight to save the sick from the burning hospi-
tal. He subsequently received from the hands of
the Queen, an autograph Bible, and his portrait is
to be seen in the celebrated painting by De Neu-
ville now in the New South Wales National
Gallery. The unfortunate man, who, since his
admission to the wretched apylum that is now his
home, has, according to the report of the gentle-
men appointed to enquire into the management of
the N.S.W. Government charities, been treated
wiih wanton neglect and cruelty, is in a hopeless
condition of health, and will, while he lingers, be
utterly dependent on the good offices of those who
may wish to make a substantial protest against
the hollow-hearted system which, while it spends
lavishly to commemorate triumphs gained chiefly
at the cost and never for the benefit of the class
from which the common soldier is drawn, cal-
lously permits a brave private to die in misery.
The Bulletin hopes to collect a considerable
sum for Roy. and undertakes to see that he is
directly benefited by its expenditure. The follow-
ing additional donations are now thankfully
acknowledged
Collected by C. Corder, Mt. Macdonald, £4; 11th Hussar,
53.; Charters Towers, £1: Andrew Jamt'sjr’, carrier, Hay,
and Constant Reader, 103; One of Them, £1; W. Mather,
£1; Louis Fitzpatricr, £l.
Last week the employes of the eloquent
Mr S?. E. Lees, M.P., presented him with a
travelling bag. We hope Samuel will take the
hint.
The centenary of Australia and the cen-
tenary of the colonial episcopate are to he cele*
bra’ ed. How about the centenary of the Austra-
lian Press?
The volume of poems recently published
by Mr. John Fa-re)l (the author of “How he
D ed’ ), now proprietor and editor of the Lithgow
Enterprise, receives a character Stic notice from
the Paul Mall Gazette, which, in a current
number refers to him as an ama'gam of Bret
Hartc, Robert Browning, a romantic bushranger,
and James Thompson, author of the “ City of
Dreadful Night.” Amongst other things, the
Gazette sajs of Mr. Farrell that “ he handles his
lines with some rough force ” which shows “ both
humour and eloquence,’ and it considers his “ un-
deniably striking work ’’ has both “interest and
merit.’
CORRESPONDECE
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MBS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of such
MS3,
Phil. R.’: Thanks for the subscription
for Roy. As to the verses, however, you have a
good but are nathless not yet a finished poet
‘ J.M C.’: Thanks, but we are afraid the sketch is
hardly definite enough. Prudential reasons also forbid our
caricaturing a man who is eccentric and has a “ hasty
temper.’....‘L. Martin’: The statement that “The Good
Shepherd will be presented to the Lambs” suggests a senti-
ment which cannot be too carefully kept out of any charit-
able movemer t. We do not desire to be captious, but every
attempt to ameliorate the condition of the most needy ard
forlorn of humanity is effective and healthful in proportion
as it is human and not sectarian. Fall s'omachs and cleanli-
ness will beget morals without the aid of cant or citechism.
....'YX: (Hay): Bosh ‘ Spondulix’: Good yarns, but both
off-coloured....‘G.L.P.’: As fires caused by rats striking
matches on their legs are somewhat prevalent at present, it
would be well if the great Australian nation stopped chewing
“ Rough on Rats ” and gave the rodents a show....' Robert
P.’: A little 1ibe1....' E. Morcombe 1 : Water never makes a
man sick, doesn't it ? Have you ever been to Normanton ?
‘Musson’: Despite the waspish style in which some of the
clergy “go for" us at times, we desire to return evilforgood,
even as the, sandalwood tree imparts a fragrance to ths axe
that hews it down,...‘ S P.’(S'.rahar, Tas ): Pirate, avaunt
Pleare send us no more five-page sc-eed about your cat....
‘ W.B.R.’ (Bundaberg): We refuse emphatically to "pawn
our mining expert and lose the ticket.”....' Applelree Jack
(Mudgee): Boil your oldest inhabitant. Drop him down a
mine. Take him for a walk and lobb him. But don t don’t
—don’t inflict him on us....‘Rank Outsid-r’ (Launceston):
Your skating masher is beneath notice ‘Semper
Fidelia' (Sydney): We regret we can’t enlighten yiu as to the
marks on watches. Uncle has nuw had our nickel hurologue
so long that we have even forgot tin what a wa‘ch is like. If
you want to know anything about the mark) on pawn-tickets
we are at your service ‘ Duke of Rand viok ’ (Wollongong):
You may be a very good citizen, but you are a no-aconunt
duke. You don’t seem to have any reverence forthejim-
cracks that have been “ breathed upon by the spirit of the
age.”....‘Arab ’ (Bathurst): There is a reckless previousnrfs
about your style of writing which leads us to think you migb t
shine in the bill-posting line. As your items would cost
£5.000,000 a aveek in libels, a wealth? paper could pay you
£lOOO a day not to write at all, and make money out of you
at that ‘ Observer ’ (Narrabri): Item being po dired over.
‘Ally Sloper’ (Brewarrina): Thanks for donation (53) for
Wm. Roy. Such articles, if you want to know, were ex
pressly designed to keep lovely woman from being banged
cut of shape while travelling. Don'!; be beguiled either by
article or wearer ‘J.P.’ (Wollombi): Thanks ‘JO’
(Whitton): We gave your letter to our coadjutor, Smith, to
decipher, anl he passed it on to Smythe, after v hich Smijthe
had a turn. They all gave it up ‘Bus3y’ (Sydney): Unfor-
tunate son of a gun, y ur letter shall have attention....
‘Unit’ (Ballarat): You mist have been arguing with a cow
(1) A great part cf China lies ina comparatively cold clirrate
so that the Chinkie-man is often no more fitted for tropical
weather than the Englbhman, and less fitted than the Aus
tralian. (2) The Chow is i dustrious. Moot of them in Aus
tra ia are only slaves and have to work day and night
whether they like it c r not (3) He isn't tober. Men get
drunker on opium than on rum, and they get so soaked with
it that they live and cie drunk. The wbi‘e man is bid
enough, but he builds no houses with a hundred bunks for
customers to lie in till they recover sufficiently to walk. (4)
The honest Chow is not yet built. What about fan-ta<>
pak-a-poo, naturalisation swindles, and the like ? (5) The
white man can grow hi 3 own “cabbagce” in Furore and
make money at it, and the Australian could do the same
unless he has been born imbecile. (6) The argument that the
whites patronise the Chinese because their goods are cheaper
than the whites’ is no argument. The white man is weak when
poor, and must be protected against himself by the State
‘ M.R ’ (Randwick): We are too old a bird to be caught with
your chaff....‘Statis'ics’ (Brisbane): Here are the facts
draw your own conclusion: G'asgow has an ex reme bread h
of 3} miles from N. to S , and an extreme length of 5 miles
from E. to W. Its circumference is 10 miles, and the area
embraced within the municipal boundaries (41114) acris In
1871 the population was 477,732. It is computed that 100,000
have been added to the population of the city proper during
the past 8 years The offi dal returns to the middle of 1879
give 578,156. In the off-3pringing bu-ghs of Glasgow the eis
a population of 170,000, wnich. added to the population of
the city, would give about 750,001. Liverpo d has a city area
of 5210 acres. In 1881 the population was 552 425. The
boroughs of Bootle and Birkenhead may be considered as
constituting part of Liverpool. With the latter the total
population is probably about 750,000 Glasgow is perhaps
the more important of the two, taking area into considers
tion ‘ W. S Nichols’ (Bundanoon): The distance to be
travelled by coach from Tenterfiela to S anthorpe is about
42 mil-s, and the journey generally takts 9 hours. Return
ticket, avai able for One montn. from Sydney to Tenterfield,
costs £5 3s. Od ...‘Fairplay (Hotham): No, the sentimental
balderdash is too thin. Wouldn t your wife be “graciously
pleased' and “ infinitely condeso fading, ’ if the women of
the Cape made her a present of flabelli snd feather fans
with her initials and crown in precious stones?...
‘Bushman’ (Luna Vale, Vic): 1 hero is nothing novel in it.
General Boulanger recently reviewed a score of corporals
mounted on velocipedes. The cycle is a valuable me ms of
gettiog away in a hurry, and every bank clerk possesses one.
Do you want a higher testimonial to their usefulness :
‘ True Briton’ (Carlton, Melb.): During the past 50 years the
Queen has received £385,000 per annum; the maintenance
of the royal yachts, palaces, household, &c., costs the nation,
in addition to her salary, £234 379 per annum, or £619,379 as
a total; hence, durmg her half century of reign, she has cost
England something like £30,968,950. Various members of
the royal family draw, in addition to the foregoing, about
£150,000 per annum, and this is altogether outside spe-ial
grants to liquidate the Prince of Wales debts, &c ‘K.B.B'
(Darlinghurtt): It may arride and sol-ce your brother sonx-
what in his pastoral solitude to awaken harmoni -B from tie
tuneful lyre, but, like all great artists, h s powers appeal
to a very limited audience—the poet and yourself ..
• A.K.W : Thanks, but we have no room for .more nubile*.
‘Timothy D.’: How much will you give us to print it? Our
price is £10,000.000 and carte blanche on Norton and Co. f r
ersts .. .‘Justice’ (Christ-lurch): Thanks, but we know all
about ic. ..‘A Regular Subscriber”: Yes, the J.P. can
order th-t prisontr to be flogged under the circumstan ef.
It is ard to >av what offences are not pun shab:e by fl gg.ng
ia N.S.W. For example, if an artist, boiling over with
lightrous indignation, took an axe and proceeded to chop at
Sydney Post offi e carvings, hecoul’ be flagged for “d f»c-
-- g >» public building,” for it is clear that as the p-rso ■ who
allowed the erection o- the monstrosities in question has not
been flogged for defaei lg the Post-office the authorities are
of opinion that in putting up the ca vi gs he was beautifying
the building ia question. It is certain that some-
body ought to ne flogged a out ihe Po3t-oflice....
‘Drover’ (Bundarra): Many thanks for your letter....
‘Thomas- ’ (Albury): Will deal at length in a future
issue.... ‘ Another of Them ’: We have advocated your rail-
way- cum-land scheme both in and out cf season ‘Mut-
ton’: No; we don t know—but that needn t distress y0u....
‘L.M.’ (Brisbane): Yes! but it requires consideration....
‘G Shorter': Apply to “ Hum niog Bee.” The Bulletin
never pretended to be a vade mecurn of the mysteries of tre
toilette....‘Land Reformer' (Yass): Write direct and ordtr
the Standard from Henry George, 25 Ann-ft-ett, New
York. His journal is devoted to land reform, theiabour quef'
tions, and the care of Dr. M G.ynn,...‘P. W.N.'(B ): Mil
read your letters, but it's a big job .. .‘Frank C.' (235 y )■
Tell us now —is it original? ‘K.H.’ (Newcastle): Next
week....'A T.F.’ (N.): Will hand to artist....'Pyrmont
(Sydney): The ordinary specimen s soul i 3 no larger than
his lunch ‘Anser’ (Inverell): There is but one pestilen-
tial curse on earth that is worse than the local bird, anu
that is the man who cuts out his gush and sends it to us.
Smother your poet ‘Blenkinsop :Ad uninteresting pf l '
vate affair.,.. 1 J.D.’: Many thanks,,.. 1 Chiel’’ Please call.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
theatre Royal-" Alone m London" 15
criterion Theatre.-" Pickpocket
? f Samera Music Hall— Minstrelsy
Bujldino. —Roller Skating Rink
YMC.A. Ball—Miss Amy Sherwin „
The outlook for colonial actors is not very
romising at present. With but few exceptions
they are not to receive stipulated terms of en-
agemenb but are to be hired for the run of a
g j e ce, and only to be paid according to the value
f a part, that value to be rated by the manage-
ment. Thus if a manager values a part at a
weekly salary of five-and-twenty shillings, an
actor who has been in the receipt of four or five
pounds per week may through necessitous circum-
stances be forced to accede to such a demand.
The worst of the matter is that the profession are
powerless against this state of things. Actors are
never unanimous, and professional jealousy is the
cause. Managers know this, and that if any
actor dares to strike, his place can be easily filled.
There are so very many who are anxious and
ambitious for a “show,” that they will avail
themselves of an opportunity even at a small
salary. ,
w w w w
“ A Night Off,” which now blocks the
gangway at Sydney Opera House, is a degenerate
successor of that glorious piece of bu kum, “ The
Magistrate,” but it is good enough to draw toler-
able houses, and there is time for a drink between
the scenes. The first act is, for a comedy, the
solemnest thing ever perpetrated since the Jews
slithered out of the Promised Land, and for half an
hour the story moves as slowy as a bilious police-
man full of pie, but it wakes up a little when the
Professor’swife comes home unexpectedlyandflnds
the photo, of a ballerine on her husband’s table.
In real life a man ties a photo, of this sort to his
chest with ropes and has to undress to look at it,
but on the stage he always puts it on the table,
and when his wife finds it, tries to pass it off as an
ancient apostle preaching the gospel in the dis-
guise of a billet-dancer. From this moment the
professor’s life is a misery. The catfish tragedian
who has undertaken to produce his Roman
drama without his wife’s knowledge, rehearses
on one leg in his drawing-room, and per-
petrates cheap museum freaks which lead the
lady to conclude that he is the bloodthirsty uncle
of the French girl with the red hair and the
pawn-ticket, whom her son-in-law loved years
ago. She points out to him that as his niece now
sleeps beneath the green grass amid the bumble
bees and the mosquitoes it is no use shedding any-
bodysblood on her behalf, and the tragedian assents
feebly, and goes out to arrange a scheme for
clothing ihe Sabine army in blue pants and red
blankets, in default of which they won’t have
any clothes at all to put on. In the end, however,
the Roman drama is driven off the stage amid a
shower of carrots and mud, and the lean body-
snatcher who plays the hero takes refuge in the
house of the weeping P/ofe-sor and tries to pass
himself off as one of the leading botanists of
the age, with a yellow shirt and a pair
of sandals for his sole attire. Then the
Professor’s wife packs up her umbrella and
goloshes preparatory to leaving him t'. r ever, but
she relents when her daughter becomes engaged
to a lord who earns £1 per week, and the proceed-
ings close. Mr. Maltby, who wallows in the part
of the Professor, has the best part cf the fan, and
Mr. Ans:n, as the washed out tragedian, is a good
second. Among the ladies, the ever-welcome
Mias Myra Kemble runs a dead heat with Miss
Watt-Tanner, and several other performers—
notably Mr. Titheradge, who has a lot of love-
making—would be equally good if they got the
chance. We fell and broke our neck in the rush
to get out at the finish, and died shortly after-
wards. It isn’t nice to be dead, and we devoutly
wish we hadn’t done it.
At* At* At* At*
*7v* *7? 'A' '7V'
At Sydney Royal Standard the “Green
Lanes of England” has been revived, with Mi«s
Dampier as Margaret Wheatstone, while Mr.
Dampier plays the part of Gentleman George, a
sodden aristocrat of noble tendencies, whose
voice is a compound of fog and gin, and whose
morals are baggy at the knees. The house fills
well, and some night when we want to be killed
we will venture into the crush. Our last will and
testament will afterwards be found wrapped in
brown paper and hidden under the twopenny
china dog on the mantelpiece. On Friday “ Romeo
and Juliet” will be re-produced. Miss Dampier’s
Juliet has steadily improved until it is a really
excellent performance, and with Mr. Dampier to
fill the part of the shaky Italian lover who died
through drinking a healirg lotion, which was
meant only to be rubbed on the small of Romeo's
back, a success ought to ensue.
## # #
“The Pickpocket,” at Sydney Criterion,
is to be succeeded on Saturday next by “Our
Regiment,” and a week later the old “ Colleen
Bawn 1 will again come to the front. Regarding the
latter we oan only say that we will never be cap-
tured alive and taken to see it —never. If we are
to be present at any more Irish drama this year
Mr. Solomon must take our mangled remains
there in£ wheelbarrow.
*# # #
“Alone in London ” continues to run at
Sydney Royal, with a painfully lanky'attendance
la the circle. The gods, however, tread on each
other in their anxiety to see the bos3 villain of
the piece, and the stranger who wants to get a
gallery seat without being crushed as flat as a
Haily Telegraph requires to wear an iron-tailed
ooat of mail, and underclothing of enduring brass.
*Al* At- At-
*7V* Tv* “7v*
The niggers, in whom the soul of the
(hock-headed colonial boy rejoiceth, continue to
Prosper at Sydney Alhambra under the manage-
jneßt of the lightsome Smith, and play nightly to
*arge audiences, composed to a great extent of
wedy clerical gentlemen whose wives are waiting
at home under the impression that they are out
praying for rain. Mies Beatrice James sings
something pretty to the effect that she never
(peaks as she passes by ; Johnny Cowan warbles
comicality called “How is your Ma,” which
o ows that he takes an interest in the old lady,
®°pgh he is obviously too old to have any ma of
' B ,°’ fn now; and Miss Scasi’s “ Gathering May”
u cam Keenan’s “Go and tell M’ria” are de-
a„ Te , v encored. “Sweet roses will bloom
“gain is also a nice song, nicely rendered, and
n - including farce “ Married in the Dark ” is a
t ‘ c , e of exquisite fooling calculated to touch a
bald BPOt in tlle liearta °f many prematurely
young men who have married widows with
and 1 C ? il^ren when under the influence of drink,
0 now clean the family boots in the
hen and sleep on the coals.
#* # *
Professor" Anderson has started this
J?*)® Pake a lady’s head off and put it on again,
the audiences at Sydney Gaiety seem to like if.
Then they go home and try to take their mother-
in-law’s head off in the same way, and are sur-
prised to find the old lady is built all in one piece,
and won’t let herself be taken apart without
screaming the roof off. In his advertisement the
“Professor” adds that the far-famed wizardian
psycromantheum is now peregrinating on the
tidal wave of popularity, a circumstance which
probably arises in some way from the combination
of the hypothetical forces of the sun’s disc with
the conglomerated rebouncement of the planet
Boomerang,
## # #
Miss Amy Sherwin, “ the Tasmanian
Nightingale,” who will arrive in Srdney on
Saturday, appears in that city, for the first time
in eight years, at the new Masonic Hall, on Mon-
day, 22nd Aug. The lady’s thirty concerts in
Tasmania and Victoria have been a most brilliant
success. Splendid receptions awaited her every-
where. In all her concerts she had the support cf
her own company, headed by Herr Johann
Rhodes, a musician who Eeems to have taken the
Melbourne critics by storm. The other attrac-
tions are Mr. Henry Stockwell, a young and sym-
pathetic tenor, who makes the girls want to weep
on his neck; Signor Lencioni, and Mr. Arthur
Sherwin, Miss Amy's brother. At her first con-
cert Miss Sherwin will introduce to Sydney an
aria, unknown here, t.e “Couplets du Mysoli”
from “La Perte de Bresil,” by Felicien David.
** # *
Major Henry C. Dane, who comes from
America with an excellent reputation, begins his
lectures at Sydney New Masonic Hall this (Thurs-
day) ivening. Major Dane’s other Sydney dates
are 19th and 23rd inst. at same hall. Carlngton
patronises.
## # #
The Sydney authorities of the so-called
“Queen’s Fund” give a swavger concert at
Sydney University Hall on Friday, 26th August.
The fund, as already explained, is a part of the
Imperial Federation Scheme, and is an institution
cunningly designed to obtain for the avaricious
Queen Victoria among the poor and ignorant of
Australia an unfounded reputation for benevo-
lence. The concert is sure to be largely attended.
With a perseverance
worthy of a better cause,
Mr. Brough has worked
up “Dick” into some-
thing very like a success
at Melbourne Opera
House. He himself in-
i’ases all the fun possible
into a feeble part, and
evidently feels much bet-
ter than on the first night.
The chorus darling 3 have
been re-tuned, some gags
siuog io, and a “substi-
tution ” provided for the
gentleman who suffered
from colic. This pro-
due ion wes the object
of much conflicting gush
from local critics, all of
whom piped their praises
in a different key. Some
swore by the music,
and others swore by the
“humour.” We swere
at both. Brough aid
Boucicault’e company are
clever, and can awake
a certain w.ld sweetness
of their own. But it
“Dick” is very tuneful
or very funny, then
perish our honest right
hand which wrote itdown
as otherwise
■AL. AL. At- At-
*7v* *7v* *7v*
Our old and revered
friend, ‘ 1 The Woman in
White,” retains enough
power of attraction to
fetch ’em for a second
week at Melbourne Bijou.
As the two persecuted
females, Miss Lucia Har-
wood shines consider-
ably. Mrs. George Gordcn
scores as Marian Hal-
combe, and there is a big
lump of merit in Mrs.
Wilson Forbes’ sketch of
that amiable conspirator,
Pesca. Emelie Melville,
in comedy, on Saturday
next. The condition of
the Royal during la-t
week proved that the
present generation has
had its whack of “Rip
van Winkle,” and will
endeavour to bear up : f
the drunken Dutchman
sleeps for another ten
years. If he died in his
sleep we would still bear
up. To wind up their sea-
son the Williamsons are
trying “Eureka,” a drama which contains enough
sensation and Maggie Moore to draw good houses
for a week, anyway. On Monday the talented
pair give a final performance of “Struck Oil” in
obedience to vice-regal “ command,” andfor Tues-
day somebody has commanded a benefit to George
Darrell. Two acts of “Sunny South” with the
resuscitated George personally on the job, will be
supplemented by a galaxy of miscellaneous
glories. May heaven and a crowded house be
with him!
## # #
We are glad to hear that there is some
prospect of Mr. Jules Joubert’s being able to
extricate himself from his financial difficulties
and resumed the management of the Alexandra
Theatre (Melb ). His creditors will place no diffi-
culties in his way.
## # #
“Princess Ida” has done five weeks at
the Princess’s, which was just about as much as
she deserved. On Saturday Miss Leonora Braham
takes up the running in “Dorothy.” Mr.
Collier's agreement with the Triumvirate stipu-
lated for three weeks’ strict rehearsal of his
opera, and it will stand or fall—probably stand—
by the first performance. Miss Braham’s hubby
comes to the front in “Dorothy,” which reminds
us that Mr. Leumane, the newly-imported tenor,
is going to stand down this journey. Neither he
nor Mr. Frederici (the baritone) has proved an over-
whelming success up to now, and their contempt
for Australian “ taste ” is sublime in its grandeur.
•** * *
Failure is predicted for the second season
of Italian opera in Melbourne, unless the Trium-
virate alter their present seating system and pro-
vide a shilling pit. There is a limit even to the
wild enthusiasm of a musical amatoor. It won’t
run to three shillings a time for stalls.
** * *
Carrie Swain and company have departed
from the Alexandra to get more “ shugger” in the
provinces. Mr. Jouberts house has “vacant
dates,” which want filling badly.
## # #
Emelie Melville, an angel ever bright and
fair, is about to appear in serious comedy at Mel-
bourne Bijou. She starts her new departure as
Peg Woffington, and should take the part as to
the manner born. Mrs. Bancroft, who hopped,
skipped, and jumped in burlesques for many
years, has lived to play that very same character
before the “ best people ” in London. Mies Mel-
ville can claim physical advantages over Mrs.
Bancroft, and, as regards talent, we believe she
can knock us silly in anything— from a step dance
to Lady Macbeth.
## # #
George Leitch left Melbourne last Wed
nesday by the Rodondo, passing through Sydney
en route for Brisbane, where he commences his
tour of “Harbour Lights,” and “Human Nature.”
At* AJ* Al~ At*
'A* 'A' 'TV* ‘TV*
John Bryan, the huge Melbourne actor,
now keeps a kind of Dramatic Club in Glass Ter-
race, Gertrude-street, Fitzroy, where actors,
pressmen, musicians, and Bohemians board and
lodge. He seldom appears on any other boards
now. He was an enormous success lately as the
cabman in the “Silver King” at the Melbourne
Royal, and as “a simple village maiden ” sought
to be wrecked by a villain lord, he drew crammed
houses to Frank Weston’s Minstrel entertainments
at the. Nugget Theatre.
## # #
C. H. Taylor’s “ Called Back ” Company
have been seven months in the provinces, with
good results (George Lee in advance).
At* At* At*
TV* ‘TV* W *7^
The Italian opera season, writes our cor-
respondent, is drawing to a close at Adelaide
Royal. “Belisario,” “Faust,” and “Norma’
have been the latest operas rendered. A special
benefit is announced for Rebottaro, “ The Barber
rfE Si£
com
°yr mfnoi/Uijß
<jvrf. "
of Seville ’ being revived for the occasion. The
Faust Family wind up with a monster benefit at
the Town Hall, at which 100 performers are billed
to appear. Tommy Hudson and company
are expected to cccupy Garner’s Theatre
for a short period. Phil. Robinson has
broken faith with the Adelaide public, who
are naturally incensed. Be announced “ a
flying visit ” promising to give his lecture “On
the Warpath” for one night only. Without giv-
ing a reason, he telegraphed baldly regretting
that he had been detained in Melbourne, and
could only give a matinee lecture, his stay in the
city being restricted to s'x hours. His excuse is
lame, and has not gone down with the godly
South Australians, who suspect him of having
stayed behind to d scuss that Mormon question
with the newspaper men at the Yorick.
AA. At. At* At.
'A' W 'W 'W
The Joran sisters, who have been ap-
pearing to good houses at A delaide Exhibition,
will give some farewell concerts in Sydney prior
to departing for the land of wooden hams,
women with gold teeth, and artful frauds in
general.
*# # #
A theatrical company at present doing
Queensland, secure free advertisements in ad-
vance by merely forwarding a newspaper contain-
ing their notices to the “ Editor, principal paper,”
of the town.
## # #
Miss Leonora Braham, W. G. and M.’s
new prima donna, i 3 of Hebrew origin, being re-
lated to the great Braham (originally Abraham),
the tenor, of Bixty years ago, who was the father
of the late Lady Waldgrave. Leonora is a
plump, rosy-lipped, bright-eyed little personage,
who possesses a sweet well-trained voice, and a
fund of refined and artless humour. She has
been married twice : her first husband, a talented
organist named Barnett, lost his reason from over-
work in the States ar.d committed suicide, leaving
her with two children to support by her talents.
With this big list of qualifications the only cb
jection we can raise against the lady is that she
comes to take the place of our dear departed
Nellie Stewart, for whom we spend all our surplus
time in wailing bitterly.
## # #
At Brisbane Royal, Essie Jenyns has scored
a success as “ Leah the Forsaken.” Grattan Riggs
has opened to good houses at the Gaiety. The Ex-
hibition, the Fiske Jubilee Singers, and Ridge-
way’s Circus are the other local attractions.
## # *
The Moore and Ashton Minstrels, which
have just opened at Auckland, N.Z., to big biz,,
are a decided success. They do nothing to bring
a blush to the cheek of modesty, and they are
piloted by a personage with the gorgeous appella-
tion of Washington Solly.
*At* At*
T W
Barry Sullivan, the tragedian, is accredited
with atheistical opinions, and on one occasion
when dtrectiog an actor during a rehearsal he ob-
served to him, “Don’t appeal to me, sir—appeal
to a higher power—if any exists.”
## # #
The other day, Harwood, after ordering
some refreshment in an hotel, was offered a glass
of muggy beer by the barmaid. “ That’s full of
dregs,” said the comedian. “ Those are hops, not
dregs,” replied the Hebe. “All right," replied
Harwood; “I'll drink it dregly.” He lived to
imbibe the beer.
“ Yes,” said one of the managers of a new
theatre up South to a friend, “my theatre is going
to knock em. 11l have a ‘desolated’ pavement
in the ‘festival,’ and a ‘fumigated’ fountain
a-playing.” He meant that he would have a
“tesselated” pavement in the “vestibule,” and
an “illuminated" fountain, but—well, never
mind.
## # #
Buffalo Bill writes from England to
America:—“l havo got all the big bugs solid,
from the old Queen, down. I think the show will
make a million dollars before leaving Europe.”
** # #
Cape Town journals allude to the “crisp
perfection” of Luscombe Searelle’s orchestra, and
(he critics absolutely drivel over Miss Blanche
Fenton, and speak of her performances as “the
most charming ever seen or heard here.” From
which we presume that the Man of Impending
Libel Suits has caught on at the Cape.
*# # *
It is cabled that that most talented
pianiste, Madame Eimblad (Miss Maggie Menzies),
has suicided. Madame was the wife of the cele-
brated basso of that name, who held an official
musical position at one of the German Courts.
She was the daughter of the late Mr. Archibald
Vlenzies, of the well-known Melbourne hotel, and
he remarkable circumstances under which, ere she
met Mr. Eimblad, her intend* d marriage with a
certain well-known Italian was broken off, still
emain fresh in the public memory.
## # #
The S.M. Herald’s London special
cautiously but significantly says in his last that—
The Prince of Wales interest in theatrical debutantes ift
it rhe moment a leading topic of conversation.”
The old story :
The pretty Mrs. Armstrong, of Melbourrie,
who has just completed her musical education
under Madame Marchesiin Paris, recently made a
brilliant debut in the French capital before a
number of virtuosi. She has now signed a five
years’ concert engagement with Maurice Strakosch*
iommencing at £lOOO, and rising to £5OOO a year
•so it is said.
## * *
W. J. Carey, the actor, has opened a dra-
matic school in the Apollo Hall, Melbourne.
Queen Victoria has desired her thanks td
be conveyed to the President of the Council and
Speaker of the Assembly of N.S.W. for their
patriotic speeches on the occasion of the voting of
Jubilee addresses, which speeches, her Majesty
graciously considers, “ abundantly testify to the
loyalty and affection of the colonists.” When
were Hay and Young constituted the mouthpieces
of the N.S.W. people? Why, they were both
howled off the platform at the famous Town TTq.n
Jubilee meeting,
A Melbourne excise inspector last week
ummoned Steward M‘Farland, of the s.s. Queens-
cltffe, for eelliDg grog to people who were not pas-
sengers. The inspector swore that he bought
three whiskies from the steward. Why three?
Wouldn’t one have proved his case ? In an api
peal case of this sort, heard before the late .ludge
M'Farland, it transpired that the inspector had
seven glasses of gin. He was “shouted for”
though by some people, including the sly grog-
seller himself. “ Egad 1 you had a high time of
it!” said the judge to the exciseman.
That versatile Chinese, Mr. Quong Tart,
has been presiding in the “Jury Court,” as it is
called, at Sydney, both last week and this. His
Honor sits dispensing Chinese justice in respect
of an unfathomable dispute in which well-nigh a
score of his countrymen are mixed up. The pro-
ceedings are not without their ridiculous side;
the judge, witnesses, and parties in the suit hav-
ing a persistent habit of all talking together ; but
there is a serious point of view also to be taken.
We all know that the Chinese resident in Austra-
lia administer by some occult means a law
unto themselves, the main effect of which is to
keep about nine tenths of them in slavery to the
rest; but this is the first time, we believe, that
' the strong arm ” of the Australian law has been
put in motion to enforce Celestial “ justice.”
Oh, Albert Edward! Neddy, dear! Why don’t
you mind the State ?
Oh! why do you with Tots and Lou. go round and
jubilate?
Your English subjects, Alby, dear, can’t love you
as they ought
if bold and painted debutantes turn out to be your
forte.
A King—like Fritz—we like to see (we don’t know
why we should),
1 noble sort of nobleman with quarts of fighting
blood;
We do not like a bald, fat man, with green-rooms
for his haunts,
Who wears light gloves and only loves those stagey
debutantes.


pepper
And
Salt
Mr. Ebenezer Ward, the South Australian
Senator, has solemnly declared in Parliament that
“he was never drunk, except medicinally.”
MISS BIGGINS : “O! ISN’T IT GRACEFUL! I DO WISH I COULD DO IT!”
MR. SMALLFRY: “NOTHING EASIER. IT ALL DEPENDS ON KEEPING YOUR
EQUILIBRIUM."
MISS B.: “O! DO SHOW ME HOW TO KEEP MY EQUILIBRIUM.”
If there is one poor, smitten, paralysed
soldier-man just now in N.S.W. it is Captain
Bouverie. This eminent officer went down last
week to Moruya to inspect the local fail-back
militia, and only one solitary volunteer rolled up
to be overhauled. He was examined with his
clothes on, the captain being so depressed at the
Want of enthusiasm manifested that he wasn’t
very particular, and sent home to his cave. The
Captain is now of opinion that the country is
going to the devil, and General Richardson,
the deadly enemy of the Mahdi, agrees
with him. The latter went down in state
to Forbes, accompanied by his—aw!—adjutant-
general, to keelhaul the troops there, but the
people of Forbes are a class who wallow in
Sunday-school rather than in war, and only nine
men appeared. They evolushed to the best of
their ability under the stormy glare of their
gallant commander’s eye, but somehow things
did not go well, and the fact that five kittens
had bsen born in the drill shed during the
week and had camped on top of the orderly
book did not improve matters. The volunteer at
Moruya says he will fight to the last and will
never be taken alive, but the nine men at Forbes,
it is feared, are averse to bloodshed and will prob-
ably retreat in the form of a hollow square with
the women and children in the centre in the event
of the town being assailed by a German army
corps. It cost a considerable lot to inspect these
ten desperate men, and a scheme for the reorgani-
sation of the N.S.W. forces is mooted in order
that the sanguinary hordes of the back blocks
may be looked at on a cheaper scale in future. It
is all very well to rush to glory and the grave, and
for the angel of death to spread his wings on the
blast, and all that, but when it comes to paying
first-class fares and hotel expenses for three
officers, the rushing is expensive, and whan the
angel of death has a cold and is wiping his nose
on his wing, and the troop 3 have to seek the
bubble reputation at the end of a drain pipe be-
cause there is no cannon handy, it takes a lot of
the shine out of the display.
• * *
If Judge Dowling, of N.S.W., should
ever find himself in the course of a toothless old
age stranded upon the shores of time—if he should
salter from melancholia, “Rough on Rats,’ or
nervous debility—if he wants to borrow £5, oris
unable to sleep because the man next door is
learning to play the Hallelujah trombone-if his
dog gets scalded, or his gas-meter goes wrong, or
he ha 3 been out late and doesn’t feel well, or suf-
fers from indigestion, or anything goes wrong
with his mucous membrane—then Tiik Bulletin
trusts it may be its privilege to give him a shake-
down in the machine-room, or smooth his path in
any way from sixpence up to £1 or more that
the circumstances may require. The following
remarks which that good and great man recently
uttere 1 on the bench will fully explain the cause
of this unwontsd cordiality on our part
1 The life of a journalist, under the most favourable
auspices, is not a pleasant one. In the cause of the public
he frequently makes personal sacrifices by creating the in
veierate hatred of persons who have had to be criticised in
connection with public grievances or exposures; he is ever
open to be molested with actions for libel; and when it is
considered that subscriptions amount to only shillings
quarterly and wages have to be paid in pounds weekly, some
worthy effort should be made by persons who are at least
over a year in arrears to sooth the pressman’s aching brow
by paying up."
The above is, without exception, the noblest sen-
timent in the English language, and the basis of
all true greatness, and we trust the author of it
may multiply like the rabbit plague and live a
thousand years.
* * *
“In the House of Commons, Sir James
Fergusson, the Under Secretary for Foreign
Affairs, stated, in reply to a question, that Her
Majesty’s Government was still bringing pressure
to bear on France to induce her to settle the New
Hebrides question.”—
Past experience has taught us that the
surest route to Heaven is by way of the gallows,
and that he who would find salvation must seek
it in the condemned cell. Mr. Walter Wood, of
Bury (Eng.), has been and washed away all his
sins in the blood of his late mi3sus. Walter is so
happy—or rather he teas so happy till just before
the last mail left. While Mrs. Wood was alive
the poor fellow felt no tetter than anybody els?,
but he knew what he was about when he sent
her to Heaven. From the calm retirement of his
little dungeon Walter has written to -warn his
brother of the danger of not killing somebody. He
says : “ Oh, do prepare yourself for a better world
than this one. . . Soon I hope to reach my
home in Heaven, where I hope to meet those dear
ones who have gone a short time ago to prepare a
place for me.” Walter knows that Mrs. W. is
busy, with the assistance of a Semitic gentleman
who only charges 70 per shent, in furnishing
a parlour on time payment for her redeemed hubby
in one of the mansions in the skies, and he trem-
bles to think that his brother may be suddenly
stricken down without having taken measures to
provide an advance agent. Hence he says “pre-
pare yourself.” There are a lot more touching
passages in this letter, but none as touching as
Walter’s kindly references to the dear departed.
He concludes by sajiog: “It is done, she will
never return again.” (You can bet on that. The
Jady is eo squarely dead that she formed the sub-
ject of a murder trial.) “ Soon I shall have to
follow her, and the Lord above knows that I have
forgiven her for all that she has done to me truly
from the bottom of my heart, and shall leave thi3
world without the slightest malice against her.”
There now ! Escape while there i 3 yet time, dear
friends. The missus, maybe, is binding over the
kitchen Are al this vary moment. The steak isn't
ready and you cherish malice in your hearts.
Chuck her on the blazing coals and meet her in
Paradise when Nosey Bob has accomplished his
fell purpose.
* * *
There is a fearful scandal about a church
situated somewhere in the howling wilderness of
the far north-southern co ist of New South Wales.
It all arose so simply, too, that even now the re-
sponsible ollicials cannot discover exactly how it
was that the unholy heathen got so far to wind-
ward of them. As often happens, the possession
of too much land and the presence of the gaunt
Deficit Bird were the primary cause of the trouble.
To prevent the Bird of Evil omen from making a
permanent roosting place of the ecclesiastical
HE SHOWS HER.
banking account, the churchwardens conceived
an expedient which gilds with a continual glory
their reputation in the realms of finance. They
divided the frontage, of which the church only
occupied a part, into several allotments and leased
the latter to manufacturers in the lemon-squash
line and traders in newspapers and other things of
this world. And for exactly six days the spec,
seemed certain to pay better than a land resump-
tion or a prize distribution of KurrajoDg Arcadias.
But on the seventh day, which was the Sabbath,
the churchwardens had (.heir joy knocked flatter
than wall paper on beholding the briskness prevail-
ing in the lemon squash and newspaper emporiums
which they themselves had caused to be erected
j ust alongside the big front door of their place of
worship. And when they expostulated with the
Sabbath-desecrating merchants the latter calmly
produced their leases, and refused to shut up shop
for all the churchwardens in Christendom. That’s
how the case stands at present, and one of the
tenants, moved thereto by profane and avaricious
promptings, threatens that unless his landlords
pay him a year’s rent for his lease, he will give
lessons on the bassoon and big drum every Sun-
day morning, and fill up the evening with
quadrille classes and a spiritualistic seanc?. He’ll
do it, too, for a certainty, and that’s why the
churchwardens now are in doubt whether it would
be better to move the tenant or the church.
Somehow these attempts to run religion on strict
business lines never seem to pay to any enormoub
extent. The men who run religion don’t seem to
be men who can run a business, anyhow.
# * *
Something went wrong recently at Hoki-
tika (N.Z.)—a muggy spot which the gruesome
natives generally call “ Okytikky and there
was a Tophet of a row. Bevan, M.P., saw that
an election was looming, so he went up to hi)
constituency just before the Jubilee and
proposed to - celebrate the festive occasion by
the establishment of an Old Man’s ’Home,
whereby some people imagined he was at-
tempting to shy two bricks at one fowl or some-
thing of the sort. But he told the miners that
they were the ‘' bone and sinew ” of the country ;
that they were “labour’s noblemen,” “glorious
freemen,” the “genuine rulers of this great
country,” and generally that they were the head,
backbone, and tail of the State, and when he sat
do wn he had a misguided idea that he had struck
a rich patch. Presently, however, a local mag-
nate arose and asked what kind of gag this wa3
to work on the infant mind of the West Coast
digger, and why in the name of lightning and
cowgrease he should be chosen as a special candi-
date for a workhouse .iust because the Queen
was having a jubilee ; and then he grew
madder and madder and tore round the
platform, and asked if Mr. Bevan would kindly
come out of his shell like a winkle, and explain
himself. And next a brawny miner opened out
like a hinge and spoke these .words : “ It’s hall
gory rat. Wot do we w r ant a Hold Cove’s ’Ome
’ere for? Hain't there the Hupper ’Ou-'e in Wel-
lington ? That’s the sort of ’cme, and it costs
enuff, too ” And when he sat down another min
got up, and said he was unused to public speak-
ing, but he knowed a hass when he see’d ’im ; and
yet another mumbled that it was “ one of the
happiest moments in his life—er—intelligent
awjence —er—beloved Queen —er .” And now,
somehow, Mr. Bevan does not feel so sure of a
block vote at Hokitika as he did, and he wishes
some of these West Coast diggers would not
allude to him so persistently as “ work’ouse.”
* * *
There is a man named Barton in a far-off,
one-horse settlement in New Zealand who is going
to sit up all night for the rest of his natural life.
A month ago he was as sober and reliable as any
well-shrunk tailor who ever threw in an extra
pair of pants and a mountain allotment with each
suit, but now he is a gibbering, demented idiot,
who has fits, and wants to liarg himself three
times a day, and imagines one half the time that
he is a thirsty kangaroo bounding over tho Aus-
tralian desert in pursuit of a strangled corpao
which (lie 3 before him with a bottle of beer stick-
ing out of its tail pocket, and the other half that
he is Moses canvassing the children of
Israel for a new book in 30 monthly parts.
His story is a mournful one. About throe
weeks ago he put up for the night at
a bush hotel, and, after engaging the only
vacant bedroom proceeded to do up his hair
before supper. Just as he was sitting down to
that meal the landlady introduced a sad-looklng,
buttoned-up man who wanted accommodation,
and asked Barton if he would object to shire his
apartment with the stranger. The sad-looking
man explained that he was a humble follower of
the Loard, and the collar which bulged up round
his neck was legibly marked “ Smith,” and when
Barton told him that if he was reasonably civil
he was welcome to camp with him for the night,
ho turned a watery, lack-lustre eye upon him, and
said that blessed was he who didn’t walk in the
counsel of the ungodly. Aft9r supper the two
left their boots outside the bedroom door under
a mistaken idea that they might possibly be
cleaned. The last thing Barton did before he went
to sleep was to ask the stranger to call him early,
but he didn’t contemplate being awakened by
Smith turning black in the face and driving his
foot against his nose at i 2.5 a.m. Barton was a
sound sleeper and did not move at the first shock,
but his companion followed it up by giving him
one in the eye, and then he kicked with both feet
at once, planting the left in the epigastrium and
landing the other on his ear. Then Barton rose to
remonstrate, and in the dim grey light he ju3t
managed to make out that Smith had hanged him-
self to a hook right above his head, and was plung-
ing at him with both legs. Barton left through
the window, and it took six men to chain him
to the pump and throw water over him, while a
seventh cut Smith down and blew into him with
a pair of bellows under the delusion that wind
on the stomach might be good for him. A doctor
was sent for, but before he arrived the live patient
| had taken the pump out by the roots and run
half a mile with it attached to him, and when he
was caught and brought back his case was pro-
nounced to be hopeless. He is now in the lunatic
asylum, while Smith sleeps his last sleep in the
local churchyard with a thingumbob over his
dust, and his ghost kicks out with skeleton feet a
the shadows in the spirit land.
Heaven bles3 you, Ebenezer 2
We most heartily' agree, sir,
With your theory that liquor is a substitute for
pills;
Just a proper sort of notion
(Rum or whisky is our lotion,
And we inwardly apply it as a cure for our ills).
To some it seems amusing
When a fellow keeps excusing
Ilia hiccup or his stagger in so very neat a way ;
But jolly dogs like “ toe,” sir
(Pray excuse us, Ebenezer),
Take the mixture as before and never mind what
people say.
We like something alcoholic
For a bad attack of colic—
For a toothache, or a fracture, or a cold upon the
chest;
In extremity wo lice, sir
(Just as you do, Ebenezer),
To the very toothsome physic that is suited to us
best.
Directly half a bottle
Has been poured adown our throttle
We are quite another man and feel very fresh
again,
For our troubles, Ebenezer,
We care not a single D., sir—
Egad ! we’re kindred spirits, that is palpable and
plain.
Your health then, Ebenezer !
Here’s prosperity to thee, sir !
We would scorn to throw cold water on such
“ doctorings” as thine ;
0 1 wo love a legislator
Who’s devoted to the “ cratur
To get roaring drunk medicinally’s rather in our
line.
Throw up the sponge, for its evident quite
To the “ fly,”
That Her Maiesty’s Government don’t mean to
light,
Though they’ll try
To make it appear as if really they did,
Well knowing that France doesn’t do as she’s bid;
That speech is a bit of Imperial “ kid ”
All my eye.
A fig for the pressure John Bull brings to bear,
Now-a-days;
The word is an artful delusion and snare,
Meant to raise
False hopes in the breasts of Colonial T’s
(T stands for Tories, you’ll understand, please),
Who, touching that question—the New Hebrides—
Have a craze.
Talk as you will of the Queen and the Crown—
Idle “ blow ; ”
The tail of the Lion is hopelessly down —
Lying low ;
Poor beast! he’s not game any quarrel to pick
(They’ve dosed him until he is jolly well sick)
The Frenchmen are there —and there they will stick,
Don cher know.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Premier Playford (S.A.) smokes a disrepu-
table old pipe.
Victor Hugo’s English estate alone was
worth £90,000.
Shakespeare keeps an hotel at Barcaldine
(Q,) Spirit of the bard !
Miss Parkes’ (the Premier’s daughter)
name is Annie Thomasine.
Mark Twain makes an annual income of
over £lOOO in royalties on eleven hooks.
Charley Rome, the retired squatter who
suicided in London, was worth £350,000.
The King of the Belgiums is to write a
book. It will not be published by Stead.
Bruery Brothers (suggestive name !) are
the proprietors of the new Bundaberg paper. •
The Mayor of Roma (Q.) has been heavily
fined for selling rum without a licence. A rum
Mayor.
Mayor E. T. Smith, of Adelaide, was
originally a saddler. He will probably die in
harness.
Justice Innes (N.S.W.) says that “ lying
lips are an abomination to the law." And to the
lawyers ?
Mrs. Langtry
has now, according
to the official re-
cords, £50,000 in-
vested on mort-
gage in New York.
District Court
Judge Forbes has
just declared that
“in his opinion the
mere formality of
kissing the Bible in
a court of law will
not deter an habit-
ual liar from fol-
lowing his usual
practice.” Glorified
Galileo.! we will
next hear of some
Inspired idiot bob-
bing serenely up
apd openly declar-
ing that the world
actually does move
after all.
The late Jus-
tice Fellows, of
Victoria, used to
employveryhomely
illustrations to ex-
plain things to
juries. He seemed
to think that jurors
as a rule were not
heavenly - illumin-
ated men. In cases
of libel where
“ privilege ” was
claimed, he used
to tell the jury
that if a public
writer drew infer-
ences it should be
on reasonable
grounds. “A
Writer,”" Fellows
would point out,
“can’t be allowed
to say ‘I know
that man is a
sheep - stealer, be-
cause he wears a
white hat.''
The De Bressi has contributed £5O towards
the New Guinea exploring fund. 400 half-crowns,
we presume.
A Hongkong journal calls Sir George
Bowen “a most vain, pompous, and foolish old
gentleman.”
What’s in a name ? One of the oldest
pioneers of Victoria is the Rev. Colin Campbell,
of Talbot (Vic.)
Dr. K. J. O’Doherty is at Croydon (Q.),
where the quality of the water and grog ought to
ensure a good practice.
Mr. Smith, the martinettish manager
ef the National Bank at Melbourne, is at
present on a visit to Sydney.
The Queen is said to take great interest
in Australia. That is likely enough. Investments
can bs made at 8 per shent here.
Captain John M‘Lean better known
PBrhaps under his sultry sobriquet of “Hell-fire
Jack”— has left £5lOO to his widow and children.
Parkes has been unanimously elected
president of the N.S.W. Zoological Society. There
is a grim humour somewhere in this announce-
ment.
Hughes, the W. A. bushranger, has an in-
telligent face, sharp restless eyes, and takes his
position cheerfully, notwithstanding he is pestered
by the reporters.
The cable announces that “Jemmy”
Croyle, an old-time Ballarat (Vic ) man, has gone
to where riches cease from troubling and prospec-
tors are at rest.
Mrs. Gordon Baillie’s scheme for the
settlement of 1000 Skye crofters in Victoria has
suddenly collapsed, and that fascinating lady is
now in Tasmania.
There is some prospect of Mr. Alfred
Cellier being offered the new Chair of Music in the
Melbourne University. The appointment would
be a very popular one.
Huxley and Millais got no invitations to
Westminster Abbey on Jubilee day. Browning,
the poet, who at the very last moment wa3 sent a
ticket, promptly returned it.
Judge Dowling, of the Sydney District
Court, adjourns the Court while the noisy clock
of the Immigration Barracks next door is striking
the large hours of the morning.
Prom the S. M. Herald :—“ Bootle.—
“Ob 21, at Woodlands, Walgett, the wife of F. J.
"• Bootle, surveyor, of a daughter.” This is a
Sonuine ease of “ Bootle’s Baby.”
The inactivity of the Russian Nihilists is
due to the fact that they are watching the result
01 the perusal of a copy of Oscar Wilde’s poems
w hich has been forwarded to the Czar.
Judge Dowling, Sydney, says he sees
People riding about in their carriages who come
oefore him on ca. sa.’s, and yet he cant’t keep a
c *friage. But then Judge Dowling pays his debU.
Cole, the Melbourne Bookseller, published
a book the other day entitled “ How to talk cor-
rectly.” He made one mistake about it. He
should have dedicated it “ To the Parliament of
Victoria.”
Mr. Jack, the Queensland Government
Geologist, is about to report on Finch-Hatton's
recently floated Mount Britton gold-mine. The
result will be particularly interesting to some
English aristocratic investors.
So the relatives of the deceased Mr. E. S.
Parkes want £39,000 from the Government,
because Mr. Parkes was killed by a State railway.
Under certain conditions a man may earn a heap
of money for his family afeer he’s gone.
Unkind —to say the least of it ! Close on
the heels of a long report of Mr. Phil Robinson’s
first lecture, in the S.M.H., comes the notice of
another headed in large letters, “ What our gas-
pipes contain, and where it comes from.”
The great fire at Whiteley’s, London, is
said to be “the work of an incendiary.” Very
likely there was a woman in the case, for the
Universal Provider is a dreadful old masher
among the sweet girl graduates at his store.
Conrad Zillies, one of the few remaining
Eureka stockaders, died a few days ago at Bal-
larat. Zillies was a German cast in a Herculean
mould, and fought side by side with Peter Lalor
IN SYDNEY DOMAIN.
“EXCUSE MY INTERRUPTION, BUT MAY I ASK IF YOU ARE A MEMBER OF PARLIAMENT?”
“NO, SIR; I AM A GENTLEMAN.”
on that historic Sunday morning, 3rd December,
1854.
“ Sir Watkin,” a veteran black trooper,
has just handed in his checks at Forbes (V.S, W.).
He lost an arm through a bullet-wound received
during the police attack on the Clarke bushrang-
ing gang at Berry's hut, Jindera, and was, in con-
sequence, awarded a Government pension.
Says the Hawkesbury Chronicle in re the
S.M. Herald : —“ One thing is quite certain,
however, and that is, Hunter-street will not, as a
rule, go against any big public servant. Hunter-
street always stands by those who have most
friends—that is to say, fights on the side of big
battalions.”
An item of Court intelligence. The Prime
Minister of the Nizam of Hyderabad has smitten
his master in the face with a slipper. The Nizam,
Sir Salar Jung, is the darkey who, though already
possessed of one lawful wife, innocently talked
when he was in England of proposing to the
daughter of a British officer.
One day, at the old Supreme Court, Mel-
bourne, a country selector was looking for the
office of Chief Justice Stawell’s associate. “ First
door round the corner,” said a law clerk who
directed him ; “ask for Mr. Michie.” But the
selector thought that would be too confoundedly
familiar, so he asked Dillon the messenger if he
could see Mr. Michael .”
The late William Moore, the Melbourne
barrister, was retained some years ago with two
other members of the bar who are still living, to
defend a man charged with having murdered his
wife. The defence was that the prisoner was in-
sane, and he was acquitted on that ground.
Moore afterwards said that the strongest proof of
the man’s madness was his employing the three
men he did to defend him !
The Duke of Connaught receives £O6OO a
year as Commander-in-Chief at Bombay. With
perquisites, the post is worth £lO,OOO, which,
with the £25,000 per annum drawn as his Royal
allowance, is fair remuneration for one of whom
no return is asked, and who would only be in the
way in case of active service. P.S.—Now we
come to think of it, in case of active service, his
ma would carefully see that he was out of the
way.
London Figaro is dubious about Miss
Mary Anderson’s alleged approaching marriage to
Mr. Forbes Robertson, the actor and painter.
Says that journal:—“ The charming Miss Ander-
son has been reported to be on the verge of mar-
riage many times, but generally to an earl, duke,
or some small-fry of that sort. That she should
look with favour upon one who may he said to he,
socially, a little lower than the angels of our aris-
tocracy can scarcely be credited.”
Writes Queen. Victoria in the Court Cir
cular :
“ My dear Country and Subjacts, whi are so inseparably
bound up with My life, will encourage Me in My task, often a
very difficult and arduous one, during the* remainder of My
life.”
And then, a few lines further down, Her Majesty
in referring to God in connection with the present
whereabouts of Albert the Good, speaks of “ His
Mercy.” A capital “m” for “ Me” (Vic ), and a
capital “h” for Him (God) 1 How very modest,
to be sure!
Just thirty-two years ago one of the mer-
chant princes of Melbourne entered a little
grocer’s shop on the Toorak-road and ordered a
box of candles—neither gas nor kerosens was used
in those days. Tae order cleared the obsequious
shopkeeper out of his stock of “Price’s Compo-
sites,” and he insisted on carrying the box him-
self to the plutocrat’s house, a quarter of a mile
away. To-day that little grocer is Sir Graham
Berry, K.C.M.G , Agent-General. for Victoria;
and that merchant prince is glad to do odd
“ chores ” for a crust of bread and a glass of ale.
The only original copy extant of “De
Quir's Memorial to the King of Spain ” (1610), in
re the discovery of Australia, has just been pur-
chased by Mr. Henniker Heaton. It was bought
by the trustees of Sydney Public Library in 1873,
who had it carefully photographed and then sold.
The vandalism of this act —photographing a rare
literary treasure and selling the original—is, as
we have previously remarked, probably unique.
The Bulletin now suggests that the trustees
themselves be photographed and then sold to the
King of the Solomon Islands. The originals would
make nice pies; the photographs would serve
well enough for trustees, as things now go.
There died recently at Mount Tamar, near
Bathurst (N.S.W.), at the age of 62, one of the
largest landed proprietors of the district, Mr.
John M Phillamy, who was a native of Windsor
(N.S.W.), and was brought across the Mountains
when a youngster and in the days when the jour-
ney from Sydney to Bathurst was a journey. Mr.
M'Phillamy lived at Mount Tamar for over 40
years and brought up a family of four sons and
three daughters, one of the latter being the wife
of Mr. C. E. Pilcher, the well-known barrister.
The deceased is said to have died worth half a
million. He was a good landlord and a generous
man. In bad times his tenants were sure of con-
sideration. He was never known to ‘ ‘ sell a man
off,” and left this world widely respected.
The libel case of C. E. Jones, M.L.A. for
Ballarat, against the Argus is going to be fought
out to the bitter end. The defendant has already
been successful in two County Court actions, and
now the suit is to be heard before a Supreme
Court judge without a jury. The Argus said
Jones was just the man who was likely to pirate
Bibles, and the hon. member denies the soft im-
peachment. The defence will largely rely upon
the plaintiff’s past political career, and last week
the defendant petitioned Parliament to permit
the clerk to attend the court with the papers re-
cording Jones’s expulsion from the House 18 years
ago Jones has also been subpoenaed for the defence
to give evidence about his own character, and his
encounter with Purves, Q.C., who leads for the
Argus, promises to he one of the breeziest things
on record.
There were a few awkward features about
the Jubilee procession to Westminster, which
were pretty unanimously smothered by the
press. One tradesman hung out a banner with
the device “ Welcome to England,” and he didn’t
mean a joke either. He had never seen the Queen
before, and he thought she was a freshly-caught
German lady.
Prince Ferdinand of Saxe-Coburg—who
has gone over to boss the Bulgarians until Russia
orders him to be put in a bag and carted back to
Germany, like Battenberg—is another protege of
our Gracious Queen. Dear Ferdinand is a suffi-
ciently near relative of poor Albert’s to set Her
Pre-eminence in Grief weeping every time she
thinks about him.
The poor old Times appears to have a
large order of libel actions on hand just now.
Mr. F. H. O’Donnell, ex-M.P. and foreign leader-
writer on the Tory Morning Post, whom it has
called a “ colleague” of murderers and other mild
names, is in with an application for a slice of the
damages. He wrote a scathing letter to the
editor offering to withdraw his action if “ explicit
retractation and apologies were made both to
1 him, his late colleagues, and the public opinion of
England, and that £lO,OOO be given for charitable
objects within the city of London. If these terms
were not accepted the trial should go on, and care
would he taken that the Times would not be
allowed to promenade the jury over to Chicago,
nor Poker Flat, nor the Great Wall of China.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Speaker Groom, of the Queensland Assem-
bly, has represented Toowoomba for twenty-five
years.
C. E. Jones, M.P., thinks that the Vic-
torian sugar duties are for the benefit of thirty-
five persons.
Archdeacon Slattery, of Geelong, courte-
ously says that the Victorian State schools are
not dame schools but damn schools.
Jos. Symes says: “A man who can
hope for the success of coercive legislation in Ire
land must be next door to an idiot.”
From the S.M. Herald:—“Wanted, a
ferret, immediately. Apply, J. Grant, Standard
Theatre.” Why not apply to Habigle?
The warden at Clermont (Q.) refused re-
cently to register a claim under the ' name Anti
Chinese. It was thereupon called Hurley.
The Governor of Queensland says that
agriculture is the corner-stone of a country.
Perhaps. But mining is sometimes the founda-
tion.
A Queensland M.L.A. describes an oppo-
nent as “ cavilling, captious, fractious disputa-
tions.” This is much better than calling bad
names.
The remorseless Dr. Creed, M.L.C , pre-
dicts that his proposed torpedo inquiry in N.S.W,
will produce more startling revelations than his
quack-doctor exposures.
The hard knocks in the Charters Towers
(Q ) Anti-Chinese address riled Bung Hi and Co.
considerably. T. O'Kane will soon be as well
known in China as Confucius.
Mr. Wise objects o the proposal to raise
the ago of consent to 1.3. He is a Freetrader,
don’t you know, and objects to protecting anyone.
But that is only our littlo ioke.
Ministers Clarke anc Abigail have been
cracking up Wilcannia as .he Queen City of the
West It is wonderful how n any Queen cities are
discovered during Ministerial tours.
Protection is making headway in N.Z.
For the forthcoming election,' there are 104 Pro-
tectionist and 67 Freetrade candidates. Thirty-'
four others are indistinct in their utterances on
those subjects.
After numberless unsuccessful attempts,
the Hon. George Thorn has again entered the
Queensland Assembly. An IpswicT paper calls
him “an Independent Liberal Conservative Pro-
tectionist Freetrader.”
The Age (Melb.) says that Mr. Shiels, in
speaking on the subject of divorce the other night
when introducing his bill into the House, was
quite at home with the subject. ’ They have Inr> ■
men on the Age.
The Mayor of Broughton Creek (N.S.W.),
who is sorrowful because he isnot “prime ministei’
of this colony, thinks there is too much of the
eight-hour system in Sydney. There is probably
too much mayor in Broughton Creek.
A S.M. Herald telegram from HayT
“ Messrs. Abigail and Clarke are expected to
arrive here on Sunday. A meeting has been called
for the purpose of giving them a fitting reception.”
This may have a sinister interpretation.
Sir Psalmyell Griffith has pledged himself
to protect Queensland industries. Having
pledged himself to protection against Yellowskins
he could not consistently refuse to protect native
against Chinese (as well as other) manufactures.
Thirty-seven lawyers and forty-three land-
owners have already announced themselves candi-
dates for Parliamentary honours in N.Z Thrqe
of the latter, however, are likely to retire in
favour of three additional lawyers to make even
numbers.
Some of Mr. Sammy Lees’ particular
friends gave him a surprise party at Penrith, on
Saturday last. This will not be the only surprise
Sammy will receive in that district. Another
will, burst on him about the same time as the nex,fc
general election.
A circular lately issued by the Unite,d
Furniture Trade Society of Melbourne states that
there are 40f> yellow heathens to 92 white mep
engaged at cabinet-making in Melbourne. The
Mongolian needs to be held down by a tax ojf
abopt a ton wffight.
Dr. Cortis, M.L.A., a Government sup-
porter, stated at Bathurst that he expects to see
the deficit larger if the present Government are
not stopped ip some pf their schemes. The doctor's
ambition evidently does not quite extend to a
grave in Parkes’ charnel-house.
Sir Robert Stout has had no political luck
since he left off being plain Bob. He is not nearly
so popular in N.Z as he was twelve months ago.
’there is an incubus of ill-luck attaching to
K.C.M G.-ships for colonial statesmen that sooner
.or later relegates them to obscurity.
Dr. Cortis, the new-blood representative
of Bathurst, is growing shaky on the Parkes
gospel. He went into the House to help exclude
a bad lot of men, but his brief experience there
has taught him that those in power are only “ a
slight improvement ” on those turned out,
Up to no>v H.G.M. has not been graciously
pleased to acknowledge the receipt of the Jubilee
address forwarded to her by her pre-eminently
loyal secularist subjects of Sydney. This is un-
kind on,the pjart of Her G.M., for the address in
question was about the only truthful one she re-
ceived.
Sir Henry says that “ from what he knows
of his colleagues he thinks it very doubtful
whether they would adopt as a Government
measure ” the Bill for raising the age of consent to
18. If we guessed for a week we couldn’t tell
which of his colleagues he thought likely to object
to such a proposal.
The members of the Public Service in
Victoria are jubilant. A petition has been for-
warded to the Governor praying for the removal
of one of the members of the Public Service
Board, against whom serious charges of miscon
duct are preferred. There will probably be som
commotion over the matter.


W/a 'yoUer ,* « ?'&*> « S H **?
'< /fan, ru#er *&?'?'* 7ry qy
"£Tr&<s ccf~ 4'V ' j
O 0 e! 7*° ~
Zoofc a
Te-f £er *
— | >» /I /O(0 Tfio“W\
**r-
fc* V"*# 1 * 9
faced 7se <2 aapoys '9 a “ f
Sal 7 y ?A#ry - <? £lT?nor ?' s *9 ° LK
SSocdecf/ 77? a S
jai/pf' T7"#''?'. 27s
rfc /o7ter eocf of P
tfje. 0.5 c/oe S
//" /?oA -cl-atfry sf"
Tout's to ere /A/ ff" |j
\ /Veto Recruit-- / Jccy Conprctcl? cO fat J
> e 7sc,t TZeyW ore/* rets by?, *
/ire. off 7/) & yeu) Aret.cj-faUr
* }■<>
7 «■ -ay guard-J U 1 |y
' Atf'S
faMp/i
THE SECRET OF ENGLAND’S GREENNESS-NEW AND IMPROVED VERSION.


you're Acf?,oc<f /S o,v /B
]/ "f*. ft*"? $ Qy orders; In> so’o
f^:t!Aojust<^^ r
1 />' e / er <S**q*/
|\ irooOyd'Q Fdo
91 x
i
~ r'fjC^ T mi fa* 6 . i*l L'^/
o*’\y /
tv
>9
I
'-3 p
<>/
gutaGoy
s f'y £/est tf 6e fa s/>f
, nt r
Q 7^*3°
Scdorcts &6e £&u£er, /t>fb />foo>~j/)ares. '
" y eS , avcf/»■**'<>«* &*y *>“*<■*■
fl/cf 3 efe.cz for (pru66z (<)Ae? S* Cofflc/e. cf urty^.
NEW AND IMPROVED VERSION.


Socirty
Governor Carington will open the new
public buildings at Balmain next Saturday. His
carriage will consequently not be available for
disabled footballers going to the hospital until
Monday, after which it will ply, as usual.
Patients are requested to let their noses bleed out
of the window, instead of on the cushions. By
order.
• * *
During one of Lord Carington’s recent
progresses up-country a little unrehearsed effort
came off which took well and gave pleasure to all
A local M. L. A. balanced himself on his chest upon a
window-sill and stretched out his neck to get a
view of the Deputy-Anointed as he passed below.
Another man, who also wanted to have a look,
came behind and leaned against him, and as a
consequence the legislator was shot out, and after
a brief but thrilling flight through the air he des-
cended on his head and knees at the Governor’s
feet. With great presence of mind he got up on
his badly-barked legs and said he had just dropped
in, and Lord Carington, with tears in his eyes,
dusted him down and hauled him into the carriage
amid the shouts of the assembled multitude, con-
sisting of a little girl who had come to fetch her
pa’s beer, and a one-eyed printer. The glittering
chariot then tore round to the chemist’s, where
the victim was done up in brown paper. He is
now as much swelled as could be expected, but
even in the intervals of delirium he still waves
his medicine bottle around his head and calls
feebly to the nurse to give three cheers for the
Queen.
* * *
The citizens’ return ball to the Mayor and
Mayoress of Sydney came off in the Exhibition
Building on Wednesday, the 10th inst., and
proved a great success. About 15t0 people had
paid up their subscriptions quite spontaneously,
and a number of them brought as many as three
ladies with them by way of wreaking a refined
vengeance on the committee, it being generally
calculated that a lady could eat as much as a gen-
tleman when she set her mind to the work, and
the lady’s ticket being 10s. cheaper than that of
the coarser animal. Mrs. Riley wore a becoming
blue and white costume, and Lady Carington
was attired in pure white tulle and satin, with
magnificent diamonds. All the guests appeared
to enjoy themselves thoroughly, and the proceed-
ings closed with a rush for hats and goloshes at
an early hour in the morning.
* * *
Even in this weary world of bores and
drivel and tough hash there is a little romance
still remaining. When the last tender left the
Alameda in Sydney Harbour the other day a
young wife, whose husband was leaving her for
the first time, went into tears, then into hysterics,
then fainted two or three times, and finally made
a desperate effort to throw herself overboard, and
was only saved from committing suicide by the
exertions of a kind-hearted lady who, though a
stranger, took charge of her. And yet—in theory
—wedded life consists in a sallow, sleepy creature
in yesterday’s hair scrambling round and falling
over the cat in her efforts to get breakfast ready,
while her partner in life leans over the bannisters
aud screams, “M’ria, where’s my boots 1 ’ But
perhaps, after all, there are more things in heaven
and earth than the wearied journalist dreams of,
and love may be one of them. The journalist
never dreams of love. When a man gets to bed
late with his boots on, and his dog camps under
his couch all night in defiance of sanitary laws, he
has no time for rosy visions of sentiment or poetry.
Neither has the dog.
* * *
The first annual plain and fancy dress ball
of the Hercules Assembly was held on Friday,
sth inst., at West’s Rooms, Sydney. Among the
ladies, “Jack Sheppard,” “Snowdrop,” “My
Sweetheart,” “ Red Riding Hood,” and “ The
Daughter of the Regiment ” were very attractive,
and other fair charmers, too numerous to men-
tion, looked well, danced well, and grew remark-
ably hungry as the result of the exercise.
* * *
The Waratah Cricket Club gave their
fourth annual entertainment at the Oddfellows’
Hall, Newtown, on the Bth inst. The programme
consisted of a minstrel entertainment, followed by
a dance, and a number of nice young men from
the underclothing department did their best to
make things go pleasantly.
* * *
A ball, organised by the ladies of the dis-
trict, was held at Cootamundra on Thursday last.
Our correspondent’s handwriting, however, is
almost illegible and only becomes distinct when
she breaks out in impassioned fervour about the
supper. Some interesting remarks about the
ladies' ciothes are thus lost for ever to posterity.
■* * *
A grand Buffalo social was held at Niths-
dale on August 13, under the patronage of Lord
Carington. The Governor, we believe, is not a
buffalo himself, but on an occasion like this, dis-
tinctions are laid aside and all the animals meet
on equal terms.
* * *
The sth Regiment of Sydney Scottish
Rifles give a grand concert and ball at Sydney
Protestant Hall on Friday night, when this
martial corps will cavort round in the giddy dance
and try, for the time at all events, to forget the
horrors of war.
* * *
On the 6th inst., a company of amateurs
gave a performance at the Athenaeum Hall,
Waverley, and invited all their friends and their
friends’ friends and their friends’ friends’ casual
acquaintances back to the 10th generation to see
them do it. The programme consisted of
“Withered Leaves” and “Never reckon your
chickens,” &c. Mrs. Henchman and Messrs.
Legge, Crane, and Chambers fled with the pastry,
and the company added but little to the
malice which we have heaped up against ama-
teurs in general, and theatrical amateurs who
want to recover their long-lost che-ild in par-
ticular.
* * *
Great preparations are being made for tb e
skating carnival which is to take place at tne
Columbia Rink, Sydney, on 23rd and 2P.h inst,
* * *
A new skating rink was opened at Double
Bay last Monday. It is to be called the Society
Wink, the elite of Double Bay being unable to
pronounce the letter “R ” distinctly. The people
of Double Bay and Darling Point are very fond of
“ winking.”
* * *
Mr. John Cassar Lubienski, a Polish
nobleman of Sydney, lately stated that he had
given up his lucrative practice as a quack doctor
and started a public-house because he was a
gentleman and physic wasn’t his business. Humph!
Positive, quack-doctor's shop; comparative, public-
house ; superlative, lunatic asylum dead-house.
John Csesar states that he now gives medical
advice gratis. Let us hope that he never pre-
scribes anything more dangerous than good
whisky. The annoyance expressed by the Baron
Lubienski that he, whose abilities, education, and
noble blood fit him for the gentlemanly busi-
LOVE IN A COTTAGE.
“Not for me the dingy parlour in a bye-street far apart,
Where the sodden leg of mutton weeps beside the ruined tart.”
MAKEUP CLARKE.
SHE: “HOW VERY TOUGH THESE CHOPS ARE, MY DEAR!’
HE: “DO YOU REALLY THINK SO? WHY, UPON MY WORD, I WAS THINKING
HOW TENDER THE MEAT WAS.”
The fact was that he shuddered at the idea of his wife dismissing the butcher. Old, Pork Chop
held a bill of sale over their furniture, and the poor little soul didn't know a word about it.
ness of grog-selling, should ever have practised
as an experimenter on hypochondriacs is as
natural as the commentary passed upon one
episode of the Rev. Dr. Dodd’s career by his bio-
grapher ! “He sank so low as to become a news-
paper editor.” However, Lubienski’s idea as to
the nobility of the pint-pot is a perfectly reasonable
one. He visits Government House and sees that
the splendour of the vice-regal court is based upon
a substratum of rum. He strolls round Potts Point
and perceives that the whisky-mill is but the
waiting-room in which the local aristocracy prepare
themselves for the blessed mansions of Mayfair.
* * *
What a lark ! “ Dr. Blank Blank, M.L.A. y
may be consulted, etcetera, etcetera .” Is a doctor,
then, any better or any worse for being a member
of Parliament? The only approximation to a
parallel of this announcement is to be found in
“Doctor” L. L. Smith’s glittering phrase—
“ late the residence of His Excellency the
Governor.”
* * *
Somehow the colonist seems to be con-
siderably below par in England. On one occasion
a “dook ” entertained about fifty “representative
Australians ” and their wives and daughters and
their uncle’s grandmother twice removed, and one
of the visitors complains bitterly that he had to
hustle for two hours before he got hold of half an
orange and something which he took to be boiled
hop bitters. And on top of this misery he didn’t
even get near the dook, and when he was leaving
a stylish Englishman whom he had never seen be-
fore remarked to him airily that he had lost his
overcoat, and he supposed one of these dashed
colonial premiers had taken it.
* • *
A great deal was said in the daily papers
about the liberality of Lord Brassey because he
gave a few pounds he had collected from the
people (as fees for admission to view his yacht) to
various charitable institutions. The De Bressi,
however, appears to be extremely careful what he
does with what is really his own private money.
For instance, on the occasion of his recent visit to
Newcastle (N.S.W.), the same pilot who brought
the “ Sunbeam ”in also took her out. Wh6n the
pilot, who is by no means a wealthy man, was
leaving his yacht, his lordship desired the captain
to make him a present of—a new hat. These are
the things by which we know the peers of the
English realm—especially the new ones.
* * *
At a recent Norfolk Island wedding there
were sixteen bridesmaids and a like number of
gentlemen. The wedding was very grand indeed,
and the proceedings terminated with the usual
dejeuner, and a splendid ball at night.
* * *
The very latest cucumber story. A young
physician of small practice noticed a man buying
some cucumbers, and he followed him home and
waited outside for developments. Four hours
later the front door opened and the man came
hastily down the steps. “Want a doctor?”
gasped the impecunious physician. “ No,” re-
sponded the man, “I'm going around to the
grocer's for some cucumbers.”
• • *
It’s not only the theatres that suffer from
an emptiness about the region of the exchequer
through the wet weather. In a Sydney Anglican
church last Sunday the presiding cleric got up
when he ought to have been praying and said
that financially they were living—in the words of
our vulgar little office-boy— from hand to ‘ potato-
trap. This he said was all owing to the rain. The
old familiar plate came back to the altar with two
brass buttons and a penny on humid occasions, and
things were in a bad, bad way for the shepherd,
however happy the lambs might feel at the idea
of their saved “scrums.” It would be better
than a comedy to hear that parson, next drought,
prayerfully beseeching the Almighty to send a
shower or two along I
* * *
James Rinton, a S.A. bush postmaster,
when charged with embezzling a small sum,
pleaded that he was married and received only
£lOO per annum, had had to pay heavy doctor’s
fees for his wife, and had been reduced to sore
straits for want of money. The old, old story-
Love means a condition in which a young couple
never once think of the butcher, baker, gasman,
tailor, gresngrocer, dre3sm »ker, milkman, time-
payment furniture man, nor even the doctor, until
about a fortnight after they are married. Then
the love disappears and common-sense supervenes.
When a man who gets £lOO a year is in love and
really means it, he only thinks of the parson.
Never does he think of the policeman.
* # *
Phil. Robinson said that the Contingent
made the Coldstream Guards cold with envy at
the fluency, perfection, and finish of their objur-
gations. For ourselves we see little complimen-
tary in this statement, and yet all the newspapers
are reproducing the item with quite a blare of
trumpets. If we were a nice young lady, with a
well-regulated mind and a limited vocabulary, we
should say that such things are not “ nice ” at all,
and our naughty warriors ought to be ashamed
of themselves? Who says we can’t talk sweet-
seventeenisms?
• « *
At Mr. Locke Richardson’s recital the
other night the number of wraps, “ clouds,”
ulsters, &c., that one obviously married man car-
ried up the aisle was the object of general com-
ment. The poor fellow looked like a walking
wardrobe.
* * st-
Certain so-called religious organs of
Sydney quaver plaintively about the voice of the
newsboy which is heard in the land with the re
currence of each Sawbath day. But they say
nothing about the fact that on the days that are
not Sawbath, and every day not a Sawbath at
that, the gladness of morning is banished by a
certain well-dressed person who drives a dog-cart
and toots a coach-horn or some other ventral
abomination with a savage and inhuman vigour
which shows that nature originally intended him
for a fog-horn or the internal constitution of a
blacksmith’s bellows.
* * *
Lord and Lady Henry Phipps returned to
their Queensland home by the Ormuz. Yet nobody
noticed them, somehow, probably because they
didn’t have a yacht and charge a half-crown poll-
t ax for admission.
* * *
Sergeant-Major Whitehead, of East Mel-
bourne Artillery, a man with a good record, who
has been identified with the Eastern Hill orderly-
room for a quarter of a century, is about to retire,
and bas been presented with a handsome testa-
monial. A volunteer-officer, writing to a Mel-
bourne paper, describes the Sergeant-Major as
“ a thorough soldier and as upright a man as he
ever met.” Mr. Whitehead is father of the talented
young actress professionally known as Miss Lena
Ellis.
♦ # »
Lady Brassey thinks Brisbane girls are
pretty. Yes, pretty ugly, mostly.
• * •
In these days of fashionable weddings the
bridegroom is a mere nobody, and yet he's the
poor devii who is supposed to have brought about
the whole blessed thing. The other day there
was half-a-column of a Melbourne paper devoted
to a description of a Jewish wedding, and even
the name of the bridegroom was not mentioned.
The report commenced “ The wedding of Miss
j So-and-so took place yesterday at , and was
a brilliant event, See., See., See." Perhaps the
time will come when it's the man who will change
his name—for his wife’s.
* * *
The Grosvenor Gallery pictures are to be
exhibited first in Melbourne for six weeks. There
are some eccentric sunsets and weird-looking, long-
legged ladies in that collection which can’ tbs under-
stood in anything under six years. One of Whist-
ler's is enough to last a lifetime.
* * *
On clit several vacancies in the so-called
N.S.W. Defence Fores are likely to occur at an
early date. The rumour that Major-General Schaw,
by virtue of his Commission power, intends to com-
pel each officer to put his company through its
drill, single-handed, seems to have filled some of
the sucking Wolseleys with a most remarkable
want of confidence in their own military prowess,
and they are now busily engaged turning over
their “Polite Letter Writers” in search of a
satisfactory form of filling in their resignation
papers.
• • •
A sample of plain and fancy grovel, cut
from Brisbane Courier’s account of the inter-
view between its lady sassiety reporter and the
Lady de Bressi
“ Brisbane came in for its meed of admiration, and the
picturesque features of its site, together with the advantage
of having within its highways a broad and navigable river,
were duly commented on. ‘Our girls will b 3 so pleased,’l
then remarked, ‘if I may tell them that you think them
pretty; 1 hope you do.’ * Yes, I do indeed,’ was the reply,
and then I heard how very pretty and how very becomingly
dressed many of the girls Lady Braasey had met here had
seemed to her.”
• * *
The late Judge M‘Farland, of Melbourne,
when at the Bar, was once snubbed and slighted
by the late Justice Stephen from the Bench.
There was not a better Jjked man at the Bar than
John M'Farland, and his barristerial friends sub-
scribed for a present to him as a solatium. This
took the shape of a handsome, massive silver
snuffbox, bearing several quotations from Scrip-
ture, Shakespeare, and other sources, and made to
refer to Stephen’s snub, but in a jocose and depre-
catory sense. John knew nothing about the
snuff box till one day, in Temple Court, a crowd,of
barristers came to his chambers, headed by Hoi-
royd, Q.C., (now Justice Holroyd) carrying a tray
covered with a white napkin, as if he were bring-
ing Mac a snack of lunch. After the crowd had
filed into John’s chamber, there was a brief pause,
while Holroyd, after his usual manner, oleared
his throat and cast his merry eye on either side of
him. “Well, what the d’ye all want?’
broke out Mao in his abrupt way. Then Holroyd
made a little speech, uncovered the tray, and pre-
sented the snuff-box. John sent round to Scott’s
for some champagne, and there was a jolly half-
hour. That snuff box is now an heirloom in the
M ‘Farland family. The judge was very proud of it,
and used to send it round in court. One day it
got into the jury box, and Mac was aocused of at-
tempting “ embracery.” When Stephen J. heard
of the presentation to M‘Farland, he expressed his
regret from the Bench for what he had said, and
said he desired that his remarks should be taken
as never having been uttered.
* * *
The new Victorian Divorce Bill is going
to be a great and glorious boon to women. It is
said when it becomes law a wife will be able to
obtain a divorce from her husband if he refuse to
get up in the morning to take the milk-j ug in, or
insists on smoking in bed, or says that she can’t
cook as well as his mother, or brings a friend
home to dine without giving her 48 hours’ notice,
cr objects to striding up and down the bedroom
floor with a howling baby in the grey dawn of a
marrow-freezing morning, or says anything
against her relatives—especially her mother—
coming to see her as often as they like and stay-
ing as long as they please, or takes exception to
her wearing her hair (or any other hair) in the
prevailing fashion, or with sarcasm on his tongue
and malice in his eye fishes a strand or two of
that hair out of the butter or soup, or—well, in
fact, almost anything, if she wants a change.
# * *
Mr. Shiels, the ladies’ champion, speak-
ing before the Victorian Assembly on his Bill to
amend the existing divorce law, said that before
the introduction of the law now in force in Vic-
toria a man could not get rid of his sinful spouse
under a cost of from £lO,OOO to £20,000. A
petitioner had first to obtain his divorce in the
ecclesiastical courts, enter an action of criminal
conversation against the “ gay Lothario,” paddle
‘ ‘ home ” to the House of Lords, and work himself
into a state of skin and bone, consumption and
misanthropy, getting a private bill hauled through
the peers. After which it had to be approved by
the House of Commons, and then handed over to
receive the gracious consent of her Majesty:
which accomplished, the trick was done, and the
petitioner was at liberty to marry his cook. This
j ust and most wise system still prevails in Ireland.
* *■ *
Hotham (Vic.) returns two teetotal mem-
bers to the Legislative Assembly, and it was there-
fore quite consistent that the citizens of that
highly-decorous borough should get Mr. Nimmo,
the teetotal Minister of Works, to deliver a
lecture in the Town Hall. Mr. Nimmo is even
more of a Scotchman than a water-drinker, and
he chose as his subject “ Robert Burns,” a poet
who drank more whisky himself, and has caused
other people to drink more than all the rest of the
British bards put together. Dr. Rose will be
addressing his constituents next on “ Domestic
Morality.”
• * *
The best speech that has been heard with-
in the walls of the Victorian Legislative Assembly
for many a long day was made by Mr. Shiels last
week in introducing his Divorce Bill for the better
relief of women. The member for Normanby pur-
poses —as Mr. Gaunson puts it —to make “divorce
as free as air.” It is confidently expected that
Dr. Rose’s intimate personal acquaintance with
the subject will greatly contribute to the interest
of the debate.
* * *
Governor Loch dropped in at a Melbourne
skating rink the other afternoon, quite affable
like. His Excellency didn’t run on wheels him-
self, but he displayed profound interest in the
movements of two or three blushing maidens who
performed for his benefit. Nothing sensational
occurred on this occasion, but we gues' - that the
next time Loch “ does ” the rink, onpof the gals
will be “ specially desired” to fall fGwn and show
her ankles, When nice girl vices are trying
their prentice feet on <■’ - rink, it’s a lot better
sport than the ball- Why, we once saw a
'amous Sydney b* 1 ’ °ut never mind about that.
• * *
An ext 1 ”’ quinary, if not altogether
unique, of connubial relationship was re-
cently b’ought before Melbourne County Court.
One Cat ieron had obtained a divorce from his
wife on khe usual grounds, but afterwards re-
lented a 4 h took the woman back to his home
ostensiby a 9 a housekeeper, The reconciliation,
Lately the Queen purchased a pair of curtains made in
Ireland, and which are quaintly interlaced in Silk on Terra
Cotta woollen cloth, and now we hear there is quHe a craze
for these goods. The potters’ art is drawn upon by many
trades, it is perhaps the most expans’ve cf all, and there
appears to he no limit to it. It’s antiquity can be traced back
thousands of years, and its modern achievements can be seen
, n many forms at the art display of Bray Bros , the China
and Glass Importers in Georg e-street. 8
Ladies would do well to attend the great sale of the season
now on at the London and Paris Outfitting Establishment
Mrs, McCathie, 86 and 90 King-street.*


however, was not lasting, and now the divorc3d
wife sues her husband for £219, being at the rate
Of £3 a week for her services. The case is
pending.
* # *
There have been so many conflicting re
ports as to what Her Majesty really wore on Jubilee
Day that it will interest many of the gentle
creatures to know that we learn, on the most re-
liable authority, that Her Gracious wore a dress
of striped black satin brochO and silk, with a
tablier of white satin covered with black Chan-
tilly lace. Her bonnet was composed of Point d’
Alencon lace, the front of black velvet and dia-
monds,
* * *
Lord and Lady Brassey landed at Towns-
ville, but got no reception of any kind —
“ The people of Townsville were not
In love with his lordship’s fine “ yot,”
For when he went ashore
Things went on as before,
Save that folks muttered something like ‘ rot."
* * *
Coffins can be purchased in Sydney on the
time payment system, but they work this business
much better in Panama. There the poorer
classes simply hire a coffin by the day, or hour,
and after the dead party has been conveyed to the
grave, he or she is tumbled in and the empty
coffin returned to the owner.
* * •
At Henley regatta (Eng.) it is the correct
thing to go attired in flannels and straw hat. One
prominent N.S.W. colonist attended in a frock
coat and belltopper. He remarked that it was a
most singular thing, as they went under the
bridges, from every bridge a shower of pebbles
and bits of wood used to fall into the boat. He
said he had quite a narrow escape of being struck
on the hat several times.
* * •
The origin of dancing was that, in olden
times, after a battle, the warriors used to go
through a mimic performance of the combat—ad-
vancing, retreating, engaging in single combat,
and ever and anon springing on the foe, and
whirling him wildly about in deadly hand-to-hand
struggle. It’s astonishing how the old forms
have kept their vitality. You can see in a ball-
room any time a good representative of the old
sport—see the athletic and determined waltzer
seize his partner and rush madly into the surging
throng, the pair forcing their way through where
there isn’t room for one. Hear the bump and
smash as they dash on the foe, the rending of the
uniforms and the cries of the wounded. A modern
battlefield is a pleasant place compared to the
modern crowded ball-room.
* * *
How is it that the scarlet-coated hunts-
men of Adelaide decide every Saturday that the
nearest route to the meet is via the principal
Btreets of the city ?
* * *
The York Hotel, Adelaide, is said to be
making £lOOO a week out of visitors to the Exhi-
bition.
* * *
In Adelaide j ust now the would-be dudes
bring the hair well down before the ears in a sort
of bang of kiss-me-quicks. Possibly this is done
to disguise and tone down the ears.
# *
Peace reigns in Tapu, N.Z. The other
day Mr. H. N. Jacobs, of the local Exchange
Hotel, died, whereupon his local enemy, Thomson,
as he had threatened to do all along, hoisted a
flag by way of showing his ioy at the event. There
had been a little difference of opinion between
the pair, and this was Mr. Thomson’s manly way
of taking the starch out of his defunct rival. The
townspeople crowded round the flag pole, how-
ever, and as the gallant Thomson judged from the
sulphurous nature of their remarks that they ob-
jected to his little bit of fun, he assumed a virtue
pro. tern., and hauled down his rag.
* *
j
Little Folks magazine, a publication
which pumps grovel into the infant mind, has
printed a letter from a dear little boy, aged four
years and ten months. The letter, as might be
expected, is devoted to that fertile topic, “ The
Queen.” According to this little cherub “the
Queen is very kind to the poor, she gives away
loaves and beef and flannel, and she is very sorry
when there is an accident in the coal mines.”
Thus is Her Gracious sketched to the rising
generation of old England—as an angelic creature
who devotes her days to acts of charity, and
passes her nights in weeping for the widows and
the fatherless. Nurse never explains that the old
lady spends less than a farthing out of every un-
earned pound in beef and blankets and expresses
her sorrow by telegrams chargeable at the other
end. Which reminds us that the State School
teachers of Melbourne impressed upon their in-
nocent charges the Queen’s goodness in “giving
them such nice Jubilee Testaments and oranges.”
Perhaps now they will enlarge on this subject a
little by using that last week’s hospital-cablegram
as a reading lesson, so that the rising generation
may understand how Her Gracious gets her tack
up when other people do the beef and flannel
business instead of giving the money for her glory.
# * *
Here’s a breezy little dialogue which
graphically illustrates the world of poetry and
romance in which Scottish courtship loves to
revel. Saundy : “ Jeannie, I were here on Mon-
day nicht.” Jeannie: “Ah, Saundy, ye were
that.” ‘‘An’ I were here on Toosday nicht.”
“So ye were, Saundy.” “ An’ I were here agen
on Wadnesday nicht.” “ Ay, an’ ye were here on
Thursday nicht, an'a that.” “An’, Jeannie, I
were here last nicht, too.” “Weel, Saundy,
what if ye were ?” “An’ I’m here th’ nicht agen.”
“Ay, an’ what aboot it, mon, gin ye cam’ every
nicht?” “What aboot it, d’ye say, Jeannie?
Why, Gud blo3s ma soal! do ye no begin to smell
a rat ?”
* * *
It doesn’t seem so long since that plump
deceiver, Arthur Orton, was making trouble
among the Tichborne3, and his photograph was
exhibited side by side with that of a chubby-faced
child lab?lled “ The Rightful He r.” And now
we read that the cherub of those days—Sir
Henry Doughty Tichborne-is engaged to be
married to a Miss Fetre. Heigho! Bring a look-
ing-glass, wife of our bosom, and let us extract
gray hairs with a pair of tweezers.
* * #
The Sydney Social Purity Society are
urging that new laws should be passed for the
protection of young females. It is indeed gratify-
ing to see how old women love the young women
of the community.
* * *
Membars of a Sydney Club called “The
Gladstone Club,” were summoned last week be-
fore Judge Dowling for their grog-bill. The wine-
merchant was non suited on technical grounds,
but the Judge said he was sure Mr. Gladstone
would not feel complimented if he knew that a
club called after him wouldn't pay for its cham-
pagne and whisky. Counsel said that home rule
in the club was defective.
* * *
The Sydney Direct Fish Supply Company
intends to lay on vans to take consignments to the
suburbs daily. This design is a gross injustice to
the j unior bar. Ho win thunder are barristers to
live if this company gets a monopoly of fish-
ha wkiDg ?
* * *
The B.itish peerage is not whit it used
to be. A certain glittering nobleman who, in the
days of his glory, wedded an Australian girl, has
gone stone broke, and while his wife works for
her own livelihood, he travels round the pro
vinces in company with a theatrical troupe, con-
sisting, besides himself, of two draggle-tailed
beauties, a comic man with his elbows through
his coat, and a heavy tragedian with a square
patch on his trousers. The less draggled of the
two actresses is at present the lode-star of this
earl’s existence, anej. he lives chiefly on her earn-
ings. Lord Blank, another peer in low water,
camps in thieves’ boarding houses at twopence a
night, and when the twopence is not there he
sleeps on the Thames Embankment. Lord Colin
Campball is “ broke ” and Lord Hinton is in gaol
with his hair cut. In a back room in a back
street of a London suburb a viscountess, aged 81,
until lately earned a precarious living by making
shirts at twopence each, but a month or two ago
some benevolent individual bought her an annuity
of 21s. a week, and consequently she has given
“GOD’S GLORIOUS OXYGEN.”
THE DRUNK (loq.): “AN’ WHERE ARE YER TAKIN’ ME TO?”
X. 92: “TO THE CENTRAL, MY GOOD MAN.”
DRUNK (pleadingly): “COULDN’T YE TAKE ME TO THE WATER POLICE LOCK-UP?
THERE’S NO VENTILATION AT THE CENTRAL”— FACT.
the shirts beat. Even the peerage is thus evi-
dently not all beer and skittles, and when Aus-
tralians grovel to the coronetted navvy, or the
ennobled baked-potato-man whose ancestors
hawked fried potatoes in the commissariat depart-
ment of William the Conqueror, and long for a
hereditary peerage of their own, they would do
well to think of the peer out in the rain, and the
peeress who makes shirts, and rest content as
plain citizens for evermore.
* • *
Two young medicos recently quarreled in
Melbourne over the favours of a not. too young
but very ravishing belle of the bar. There were
rumours of a duel. Pestles and black draught for
two 1
* # *
Mrs. Nouveau Riche: “ Aw, yes, that’s
very pretty, but I don’t like the title, ‘ Common
Prayer.’ Haven’t you—aw —any other kind ? I
don’t care how much I have to pay.”
* * #
They say that the funniest part of the
Jubilee procession to Westminster Abbey was the
Duke of Edinburgh’s eldest boy. This gassy little
urchin kept wagging his young head in gracious
acknowledgment of the crowd, until a ’orny-
'anded shouted out, “ Sit still, you little ,
and suck your thumb 1” We suppose Erl in-
burgh will be sending his cub for a trip to Aus-
tralia pretty soon.
* * *
The warlike utterances of General Wung
Yung Ho to the Townsville (Q ) miners have been
invested with special solemnity by the Chinese
demonstration in Melbourne. Under pretence of
holding a charity Carnival the slant-eyed sons of
Confucius rigged " themselves out in mystic
millinery and gave us a fair notion of the Chinese
army. Melbourne saw and terrembled. The
spectacle of some six hundred grinning “ Johns ”
marching along under the shade of gorgeous um-
brellas was something to appal the stoutest heart.
Mild-seeming cabbage-vendors of yesterday had
developed into the weirdest warriors that ever
were, and the “generals” on horseback were
dreams of pantomimic ferocity. The very smell
of such an army would be enough to win nine
battles out of ten. Bung Hi and Co. now have
us at their mercy.
* * *
From Life (London)
“ Lord Binning, who has just got his troop in the Blues,
was noted some time ago for an appointment on Lord Car-
ington’s staff at Sydney on promotion, his lordship—himself
an old Blue—having signified his intention of making a
vacancy- His brother officers have, however, prevailed upon
Lord Binning to abandon his idea, contending, and pro-
perly so, that an A.D.C.-ship' to a colonial Governor is
scarcely an elevated kind of position for a captain of House
hold Cavalry with a handle to his name."
Not an elevated position ! Why, there are lot )of
people in Sydney with plenty of money who would
gladly be A.D C. to Lord Carington’s dogs for
fourpence a week and perks, so long as the latter
included an occasional vice-regal nod in a public
place.
* * *
From Sydney Morning Herald of 3rd
August:
“ M a ™MONY.-A young lady wishes to correspond
with a dark gentleman, about 28, with view to
above. Marie, P.O , Waverley.,’
Shades of the old original Herald man, what a
falling off is here ! Are advertisements running
short, or does our venerable and highly respect-
able contemporary contemplate establishing a
matrimonial bureau presided over by the shining
light of the Pitt street Congregational Church ?
Anyhow, it is plain Alfred will need to look out.
* * *
The copper-coloured Queen of Hawaii has
made Queen Victoria sit up. She was offered an
escort of hussars when she visited a London circus,
but she said no—she was as much a queen as any-
body else, and if they didn’t give her an escort of
life-guards she would not go and see the beasts at
all. She got the life-guards.
Victoria has '32? per cent, of lunatics,
and New South Wales has only '267 per cent.
Another argument for the Freetraders.
Attorney-General Wise states that we do
not make iron in N.S.W. because it pays us better
to do something else. It certainly pays Mr. Wise
better to draw £l5OO a jear as Attorney-General
than to rivet boilers in Mort’s Dock at Is. 2d. per
hour. But then we all could not be Attorneys-
General or lawyers, even if our consciences
allowed us.
During the discussion on the Gaols Law
Amendment Bill, in the Victorian Legislative
Conncil, one grumpy old member advocated the
use of the “ birch on the spot ” in juvenile offen-
ders, and said he bad not forgotten this punish-
ment of his youth. Which, no doubt, accounts
for the well-known antipathy of Legislative Coun-
cillors to protracted sittings.
Senator Graves, of Victoria, publicly re-
ferred to Mr. Waterworks Nimmo as “a decent
old ass.” Before the Speaker had time to order
him forth for immediate execution, Graves dis-
creetly substituted “old gentleman” for “old
ass,” and averted the wrath to come. Next night
he was cruel enough to make a humble apology to
the other honourable gentleman.
Says the Northern Miner :
V e observe a sky-pilot announces to-morrow ‘The
Easiest Way to Hell.’ We wonder whether this infernal
Cicerone includes Ohinbies—the corrupters of childhood,
the rogues and vagabonds of Hong Kong now in
Australia—as the ‘Easiest Way to Hell.’ The parsons
fight shy of those practical questions; just as they
“id m the Santhem States previous to and during the Civil
War. They cracked up slavery as the ‘ peculiar institution,
they quoted scripture like the Devil in its favour, and de-
graded the Christianity they professed to teich by prostitu-
mg it to the cause of the slave planters of the South."
The law, a 3 made, interpreted, and ad-
ministered by the N S.W. Supreme Court, ac-
cording to Mr. Justice Innas, is “the embodiment
of truth and justice ” The startling legislative
feat performed the other day by that institution,
whereby law students are prohibited from earning
an honest living whilst pursuing their studies, is a
fine specimen of the “embodiment,” and gives
point to the great Innes’ self-recommendatory de-
claration.
The Queensland Water Law Bill states that
the “ water in every natural watercourse, lake, or
lagoon, is the property of the Crown, and not of
any private person, and is dedicated to the use cf
the public, subject to such conditions as may te
prescribed by Parliament from time to time with
respect to such use.” This is good. By-and-bye
it will be discovered that the land is also tte
property of the nation, and. not of any private
person. “ The clock of the world moves on.”-
Said Sawmill Griffith in his budget-speech
last week:—
“ He had no connection with those who woishipped at the
fetish shrine of Freetrade; he thought the time was nearly
come when the tariff might be revised. There was a general
election near, and the tendency of public opinion throughout
Australia had been in the direction of what was called Pro-
tection. He thought that a great deal of injury had been
caused by calling it by that name. There had been of late a
general tendency for Protection in New South Wales rather
than for Freetrade. The people there only fancied it was
Free trade.”
Blasphemy! blasphemy 1
Hon. W. H. Suttor acted as chairman at
Mud. J. Haynes’ Bathurst meeting, and at the
close took up the running, and remarked that he
“objected to the manner in which the lecturer
spoke of some of his (Mr. Suttor’s) personal friends
in the Assembly.” And yet, when Parkes, in the
very same hall, slangwhanged Mr. W. H. Suttor’s
brother, Frank—called him a political nonentity,
a mole-eyed person, and passed other choice com-
pliments on him—the Hon. W. H. calmly sat on
the platform and looked as pleased as the tom- cat
that had j ast swallowed the canary.
Mr. Garrett, of the “red-hot burning
brand of shame,” and Inglis, who in happier days
tore the raging tiger in his lair and wrestled with
the winkle and the mammoth in the thirsty
jungle, have been paying a visit to Oberon
(N.S W.). The slayer of ferocious beasts pointed
out that Freetrade would ultimately make New
South Wales a great exporting country, and in
proof of it he explained that some one was giving
him oranges for nothing and he was paying the
freight to India out of his own pocket to get rid
of them. How the man felt who was giving
Inglis his fruit gratis, and how he felt himself
about having to pay money to get it carted out of
a Freetrade country, and how N.S.W. in general
was benefited by the transaction he did not ex
plain. In the eloquent words of the D.T. “other
toasts followed.”
Thus discourses Mr. John Shaw—the
writing is that of Mr. John Shaw, anyhow—in
the Cumberland Mercury :
Sydney D.T. thinks it is not easy to determine the pre-
cise degree of offence involved in the expression ‘the St
Arnaud of the caffes’—applied by Perry to Boulanger.
Sydney Echo endorses the opinion of a contemporary that
1° likened to such a man (as St. Arnaud) is a distinction
of which even a Boulanger might be proud.' In my humble
opinion, thi re is no difficulty in seeing the intensity of the
insult which Ferry offered Boulanger. Ferry is a republican,
with many of the instincts of the disciples of the school of
Victor Hugo. Now, with the Frenchmen of the Hugo
school, Leroy alias St. Arnaud stands as the type of all that
is discreditable. One merit alone they grant him to have
possessed, namely valour. Otherwise 'St Arnaud ’is placed
by them foremost in that group of filibusters, buccaneers,
swearers of oaths, spies, swindlers, butchers, executioners,
who swelled the ranks of the infamous, horrible, wealthy
some-time triumphant, besmirched court of the ‘ Man of
Sedan —in which court each person felt himself fraudulent
and knew himself suspected—in which scarce one bore the
name of his father. ‘Ah!’ cried Hugo, with prophetic in-
spiration from his exile in Brussels, ‘ may God grant me life
and pardon me ! I will raise a gibbet a hundred yards high,
I will take hammer and nails, and I will crucify this Beau-
hamais called Bonaparte, between the Leroy, called St
Arnaud and this Fialin called Persigny.’ I really don't see
why one should wonder at Boulanger having got his shirt out
at berry s remark Dr. Creed would probably get wild were
one to term him the Botterell of the wax-works! ’ ”
, The Press of South Australia is not proud.
Like most other institutions in that colony it
flourishes under the oleaginous banyan tree of
religion and goody-good j ism The Sydney
reporters who went over to Adelaide with
Lord Carington’s party were a little startled at
the first banquet they attended. They were given
seats near the chairman’s table, but they looked
in vain for any of the mild young men to whom
they had been introduced the night before. When
the M.P.s and City Councillors who were present
had gorged themselves to the utmost capacity of
their vests, and the warning rap of the chairman’s
knife foretold that the stream of Jubilee bunkum
and adulatory hogwash was abput to be turned
on, a lordly waiter hurried towards the entrance
door, and beckoning with his finger to some one
without, exclaimed, “ Come on. In with you ;
quick! ” Then there filed in six pallid, hungry’
out-at-elbow youths, who looked fitter for the
square meal they had missed than for
note-taking. Room was made for them at
a small side-table, where the glasses were
being washed up. Here they all sat down
and with a haste that became frenzied under the
severe, though champagne-moistened eye of the
organising committee, dashed after the first
speaker in a kind of phonographic Sheffield handi-
cap After the Premier had emptied himself on
the subject of “Her Grashus Majesty,’ and
thrown in a few remarks relative to “’is’ouse,”
a glass of ginger-ale was handed to each of the
local pressmen, who eagerly quaffed the invigora-
ting beverage. In the meantime the waiters were
bringing around numerous notes to them from
S.A. politicians thirsting for immortality when
they could hold no more champagne. Of these a
few have been preserved, and may be quoted as
samples : “ Mind you take the ole of my speech.”
“Don’t miss a word of my perryration.” “I
have seen your proprietors, and my remarks is
to be given in full,” &c., &c. “I suppose you
fellows won’t do anything further to-day,” said a
foreign colleague to one of the panting youths
during a moment when he was not engaged even
in taking a “ check note.” “ Not much,” was the
reply, accompanied with a consumptive cough;
“I've just come off the Intercolonial Y.M.C.A.
Conference with a book full of notes; there’s the
House in the afternoon, and I’ve got three tea- <
meetings in the evening.” Where do good re-
porters go when they die ? Why, of course, they
go to Adelaide.


The Referee
In face of the efforts made in Victoria to
minimise the altogeiher too numerous list cf
Bteeplechasicg accidents, the A.J C. have not
done well in still further stiffening the fences at
Rand wick. Vmtoria can boast of better jumre s
than N.S.W., but the Randwick course, even in
its old sta f e, brought down the te3t of Victorian
safe jumpers eve jiu their own country. Under
the guise of “ ctraightenir g ” the fences at Ran -
wick they have been raised inches, and, allowing
for the sandy take off, the jump now cannot be
muchless than 4ft. 6in.—a pretty rasper, trulp, to
take a tired horse at at the top of his speed. We
are afraid the “stiffening” will nos be confined to
the fences —the jocks will come in for a fair share
thereof. We hope the Club can buy coffins
cheaply.
* * *
Mr. W. A. Long has added to the list of
imported thorough-breds by bringing out hi 3 mare
Dame Agnes. Dame Agnes won £2233 on the
Eoglish turf, and previous to the Derby of her
year Mr. Long was considered to have a good
show for that classic event, but the mare went
wrong. Before leavirg her birthplace the Dame
was served by the crack sire Barcaldine.
* * *
Kuxnell, the S A. champion, about whom
such sensational rumours hover, is a probable
starter at the Sydney Bicycle Club sports oa 3rd
September. Tne Adelaide man, who last season
beat Dwyer and others in Melbourne, is stated to
be a goer fr. m end to end, so that the Sydney
cracks will have to quicken up the usual funereal
times in the championship races.
* # «
Newcastle Cricket Club has cub the
painter from the N S. W. Association in preferenca
to hardmg in their books for inspection, 'ihe
coaly folks weie evidently in w ant of an excuse
to clear out, but the Assoiia'ion n ight well alter
their stringent bye-law, and accept an attested
s’a emett in place of the books.
• # •
An Australian cricketing team to visit
Encland rext season is a'ready mooted, and in all
probability the movement will eventuate.
* # *
It is cabled that Teemer has beaten
Hanlon, in a smooth-water row, odds being on
Hanlar. Gate money, perhaps.
• * •
English advices still show there is not a
bowler in England worthy the name. With
Turner, Ferris, S_off., Palmer, Giffen, and Gar-
rett, Australia was never stioiger.
* * •
Amid slush and rain, Sydney Varsity beat
the Arfomas last Saturday in the deciding match
for the football championship. The best team won,
but on a day not fit for football.
• * *
Newhorn and Brann, two English ama-
teu'S. will accompany Lillywhite’s team to Aus-
tralialia. Both are good performers with the bat.
Ulyetc takes the jl»ce of Sherwin behind the
sticks, which will be a loss to the Bruishers, as the
tu-ly wicket-keeper could tot up a few runs on
occas'i n», as well as mini “ the ptgt ”
# * •
At Foley’s on Saturday night, Gorman
knocked out the plucky Dowling at the end of
three desperate rouads Foley jumped oa the
stage and stt pptd the affair ere it merged into a
brutal scene.
# * *
The once lathy Ned Trickett is in steady
practice on a stream alleged to be infested by
alligators. The alligators cast carious eyes upon
the veteran's birgy, which is said to remind people
of Fat Jennings, the Daniel Lambert of Tas-
mania.
* # *
There was a good all round display of
“funk” in the Victorian C’ub billiard tourna-
ment. When it came to a tight finish some of the
rubicund sports trembled like a maiden at the first
kiss of love. At such times a bookmaker’s
“ brass ” is concealed in his pockets.
* * *
Tommy Horan, the corpulent cricketer of
Melbourne, now poses as a public min. He is
a bloated property-holder, and out of cricket
has got a hearth, several hearths in fact, of his
own.
• * *
In appropriate names it would be hard to
beat thao of the secretary to the Riwing Club
ball which came off in Adelaide last week. Ic is
W. T. Lea Guanell, without any hyphens. The
initials surely stand for “ Water Tight.” This re-
minds us that a certain Adelaide yacht-owner
when outside admonishes his lady and gentlemen
guests “ Please be sick to leeward.”
* * *
The youngest sister of the late Teddy
M’Grade, the popular jockey who perished in the
Keilawarra disaster, died at Bombala (N.S.W.) a
few days ago, of consumption Mrs. M Grade
has thus lost her husband, eldest sod. and youngest
daughter within a brief period.
* * *
Carington, according to a Candelo
(N.S.W.) journal “is.a trained statesman, and
spends his time in the study of statesmanship.”
Of course. All the “bookies” who attend Rand-
wick religiously are Gladstones in disguisd, :and
merely studying how to run a country success
fully when laying odds against Volcano or Silver-
mine.
*< * * • , -
First young man from the interior :
“Wot’s billiards?” Second ditto: “Oh, it’s a
game.” First ditto : “ Well, but how’s it played ? ’
Second ditto: “ Why, two fellows walks round
and round a table and shoves balls across with
sticks, and one keeps on saying ‘ Hard luck,’ and
the other says ‘ D n it,’ and the one that says
t oftenest wins. That’s billiards.”
BRIEF MENTION.
Perseverance is the name of a Queensland
township. Of course its inhabitants want a rail-
way.
Wagga wants to suppress the Salvation
Harmy. The Harmy says it wants to suppress
the devil.
One of the new municipal divisions of
Col.ingwojd (Melb.) is called the “ Loch Ward.”
What humorists!
Chinamen have started laundries in Mel-
bourne, but we persist in our assertion that the
Chow won’t wash in Australia.
Attorney-General Wise declares ignoratic3
to be the greatest enemy of Freetrade. Where
ignorance i 3 b iss ’tis folly to be Wise.
A Mudgee man claims to have killed an
old man kangaroo weighing 6501 b. with a stick.
This comes of listening to Haynes’ speeches.
Protectionist j are liars, according to the
Attorney-General All men are liars, according
to the Bible; therefore Wise tells lies—hooray !
A Wellington (N.Z.) man detected in
smuggling tobacco refute 1 to inform on his mate.
Anothtr instance of the evil effects of the weed.
At Clermont (Q ) there are two young
policemen named Young and Old. Some of the
girls there are overcoming their objection to be
called Old.
The Evening News publishes a terrible
account of “A man changing brains with a dog.”
It is a shame for the editor to give away his staff
like this.
THE LABOUR QUESTION.
FIRST VOICE: “ BKGORRA, THIM CHINASE IS TAKIN’ EVERYTRING-AVEN THE
POUR SAILORS A[?] THRIE POUND’ A MONTH IS GETIIN’ CUT OUT.”
SECOND VOICE: “YAH-DAT VAS SO. AN ENGLISHMAN GOT NO SHANCE AN TALL
NOW.”
Sydney solicitor to witness : “Is it not a
fact that you area Domain loafer?’ Witness:
“ I d be very sorry to be a police court loafer, like
you are.”/
A Chinese shopkeeper in Cooktown (Q.)
has fix live young alligators. The Cooktowa
psople think they are more acceptable citizens
chan Chinkies.
A Melbourne Herald reporter i 3 writing
a series of articles about the Ballarat Reforma-
tory. He speaks of topographical de ails with an
air of easy familial Py.
The Western Post (Mudgee) wants to
know when the next practice of the local fire
brigade is to be held. That’s ea=y. When the
next fire occurs, of course.
Tommy, black tracker, got three months
at May'town the other day for stealing from the
Chinese.; When Tommy gets his liberty he will
probably steal a whole Cbinkie.
A N Z. judge excused an absent juror re-
cently because he (the juror) was in San Fran-
cisco. His Honor no doubt will extend the same
latitude to jurors in, say—Hades.
A Bathurst (N.S.W.) Good Templar has
just been gaoled for six months for appropriating
the price of a tombstone for a deceased brother.
The accursed——cold water this time.
An eminent scientist declares that the
world will eventually be converted into water.
His theory is supported by the fact that the
Sydney Globe is now in liquidation.
Bung Hi said at Townsville (Q.) that
Chinamen always asked leave of their parents
when going to emigrate. From this we presume
that Bung Hi’s mother knows he is out.
At a meeting of members of the medical
profession, held inlMelbonrne the other day, one
i of the company ro3e up and called the rest “ a
j blackguardly set.” Well— he ought to know.
A member of the Victorian As.embly
says that beet sugar has not the ‘ sweetening
propensities ”of cane sugar. A member of par-
liament is generally a good judge of “ sugar.”
The N.S.W. Parliamentary Liquor Com
mission’s report will be ready in about three
weeks. The delay is said to be attributable to
the thoroughness with which locally sold grog has
been tested.
Bung Hi informed the Queensland Premier
that he found very little oppo°ition to the Chinese
from the educated c asses of Australia. Never
mind, Bung. Mayor Riley's centennial baths will
work a change in the opinions of the aldermen on
the question.
Mr. Halpin, late cook at Bathurst (N.S.W.)
Hospital, announces in the local pipers that he
has resigned his onerous p~ei ion, not through the
“kitchen being too hot.” as was maliciously re-
ported, but simply because he found himself
“ unable to make an 81b. leg of mutton do for 18
patients.”
A constable at duties (Vic.) named Car-
roll punched the head of his superior officer, Ser-
geant Nolan, recently, and was dismissed the
force. Chief Secretary Deakin has been pre-
sented with a petition from Clunes asking that
Carroll shall be re instated in honour of Her
Majesty's Jubilee. Begorra!
William Sylvester Pulford an old Vic-
torian journalist, who was recently found dead on
a public highway near Auckland, N.Z., was a
nephew of the late George Cruickshank, the cele-
brated artist who once tried to make a teetotaller
of George Augustus Sila. Mr. Polford, some
years ago, alio "red Dr. Payne, the Yankee sharp-
shooter, to shoot an apple off his head, and received
a wound from which he never recovered.
A number of friends of Mr. Gin. Huener-
bein, who is removing from Waverley, tendered
him a parting dinner at Stratton's Hotel, on Thurs-
day night last. The gathering numbered about
forty, and the affair was one of the most pleasant
and hearty ever got up in that windy suburb.
“Jack” M Laughlin —nobody calls him Mister —
was in the chair, and was assisted in the talk by
Messrs. Brewer, Guest, Roberts, Watkins—who,
by the way, is alleged to have lately let out ter-
rifically with his sledge-hammer left— and a host
of others.
Talking of putting mines on the English
Market, Mr. Fitzgerald Moore (Yie.) better known
as the “ Silver King," is just off to London to put
about half Silverton under home rule! J. S.
Butters follows in the next mail steamer on the same
wicked errand, and we hope they will do well.
Batters, when he was the popular Mayor of Mel-
bourne, entertained, often enough, that lavish
prince, H.R.H. the Dook of Edinburgh, and we
all remember how the noble Dook threw his
money about—dreadfully so. We hope Butters
will land his royal nibs for £20,003 anyhow. Wales
might come in, too.
A NEW DISCOVERY.
Hoffman's Eucalyptal (mixture and injection) positively
cures all urinal and kidney complaints, inflammation,
gravel, lumbago (pains in the back), &c. Purely vegetable
Contains no balsam (paiba), or sandal wood. All principal
druggists and storekeepers. Price, 2s. 6d. and 3s. 61. Take
no substitnte.*
The Charters Towers (Q.) Chinkies have
refused to supply Thady O'Kane, of th e
Northern Miner, with vegetables. Thady is
jubilant at the prospect of war against the
heathen, and calls on all the priests and parsons
to aid in the extermination cf the Leper.
Department of Public Work?,
Sydney, August 16, 1887.
Tenders for public works and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are Invited for the following PUBLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of whioh is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten
ders are opened, and the name of the sucoessfu j
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly oompli9d with.
The Government does not bind Itself to aooept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates bo whlo*'
Tenders
oan be received
at this office
Erection of Quarters for Tele-
graph Operator, Gabo Island
Erection of Iron Railing, Court
House, Darlinghurst
Repairs, Court House, Morpeth
Construction of Tank and Fenc-
ing, Police Station, Uralla
Duplication of Great Southern
Railway from Goulburn to
Joppa Junction
Addition, &c.,St. Mary’s Lodge,
Domain
Painting, &c., Post and Tele-
graph Office, Caeilis
Erection of Bridge, Westbrook
road, Singleton to Gresford
Erection of Bridge over Salabar
Creek, Road Mudgee to Coo-
namble
Supply of 300 tons Blue Metal,
Newcastle (Railway Depart-
ment)
Construction of Timber Hand-
geared Punt, Fernmount
Ferry
Erection of Bridge, Glendon
Brook road, Singleton to Gres-
ford, exclusive of Supply of
Ironwork
Tuesday,
August 23,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Wharf and
Shed, Tucki Tucki, Richmond
River
Fencing. &c., Post and Tele-
graph Office, Bowral
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph
Office, Tenterfleld
Feneing, &c, Court-house,
Emmaville
Fencing, &c., Court-house, Bal-
r an aid
Erection cf Chimney, Hospital
for Insane, GUdesvills
Painting, &c., S at ion Buildings
at Wellington
Supply at Singleton Station of
20,000 Bricks
Supply at Hau ilton Station of
30,000 Bricks
Construction and Delivery of
Ironwork for Contracts Nos.
8, 25, and 30, Sydney Sewer-
age Works
Tuesday,
August 30,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction, &c., Engine,
Pumps, and Boilers, Contract
3, Lismore Water Supply
Supply, &c., of Reticulation
Pipes, &c., Contract 4, Lis-
more Water Supply
Erection of Police Barracks,
Bourke
Erection cf Fencing, &0., Post
and Telegraph Office, Berrim i
Erection of Room, Courthouse,
Jerildrrie
Tuesday,
September 6,
at 11 o’clock.
ifirectionof Waiting Sbed, Unan-
deira, and Station Buildings,
Dapto
Tuesday,
September 13,
at 11 o'clock
JOHN SUTHERLAND.
Sydney Bicycle Club.
THE Sixth Annual RACE MEETING of the
above Club will be held at the Association
Ground, Moore Park, on SATURDAY, 3rd Sepjj
tamber next.
J. WILKES,
297 George-street. Hon. Seo
Everybody i pi'Ml'l T’ CJ
SHOULD USE/ 1 D ill U Ll li
EXTRA SUPERFINE
PLOTJE!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
Nkw Process Machinery,
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and Che QUALITF
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL.
RSI O*OEo*.aTBK*T. Stormr
WE can recommend the Imperial Hair-Cut-
ting Saloon as the best in Brisbane.
Tobacco and cigars of the best brands. Address :
Temple Building, George street, six doors from
Queens-street. A. COOPER, Proprietor.
mmszsm a&asjgj
Y& m
They fit perfectly, and are
far superior to all the other
Corsets I have triea.”
Signed MARIE ROSE
THE
Y‘N
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Dorset
Will not sclit in the Seams no
tear the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect Com
fort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita
tions. Every genuine Y & N
Corset stamped “ Y & N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116, f
in oval.
Three Gold Medals! ]
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies' Outfitters.


A Good Night’s Sport
Cob always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL.
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the scienoe of self-defence.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, if you miss Foley’s you
HAVE NOT SEEN THE OITY.
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL, Rockhampton,
Queensland. —The above Hall is duly
icensed under the Queensland Theatres’ Act.
Every Company travelling through Rockhampton
for the past 18 months has (with one exception)
occupied this Hall, including Messrs. MacMahon
and Leitch, Thornton and Harwood, Harry St.
Maur, and Grattan Riggs, with Mr. Chas.
MacMahon’s Dramatic Company, who have just
concluded a brilliant and successful season. This
Company played in the Theatre Royal two years
ago, and Mr. MacMahon expresses himself as
highly pleased with the arrangements in this Hall.
Managers are requested to book at least 11 day
before opening to secure uninterrupted dates.
Terms on application to the Secretary.
THOS. BUOKLA.ND,
MINING. MACHINERY, AND GENERAL AGENT
Charters Towers.
Agent (or Robey and Co., Engineers, Lincoln;
„ „ Langland's Foundry Oo , Melbourne, Vio
GOLD. NOTHING BUT GOLD!
Read, Cut Out and Keep this Advertisement for Future Reference. It will Pay to Follow Advice Given.
THE GREATEST GOLD CITY IS THE WORLD
VERY SOON WILL BE
CHARTERS TOWERS, QUEENSLAND.
Unfortunately for Themselves Southern People until Lately have Known Very
Little About It.
English Capitalists are now and will Continue Investing Millions in the
PURCHASE of CHARTERS TOWERS MINES.
The Public cf every Class can Saftly Invest lrom One Pound to a Thousand Pounds with
the Certainty of Gaining an Enormous Profit
Here is a Case in Point—One Amongst Thousands :
THE BLACK JACK SHARES.—We strongly advised our Clients to Buy when shares
were obtainable at a very low pri-e. Take the following figures and facts, which are strictly
By buyers’s price to-day per share, not less than 50s .. .. £2 10 0
By nine dividends paid by the mine, some over, none under a
shilling, say .. .. 11 0
Less
To amount paid for application money and calls till mine com-
menced to pay dividends per share
£3 1 0
0 10
£3 0 0
Or a NE WOFTT on COST
SIX THO
This mine is not much over than a year workin is paying dividends, and will con’
t'nue to do so probably during the lives of the sharenolders. The holders of these shares
belitve they will be sold for £3 a share at an early date.
We only mention the case of this mine as an example and one of manv.
It is not a suitable investment now for people with small means who want quick and cer-
tain large profits on a small outlay of a few pounds, or even one.
High priced shares a r e only suitable as an investment for the icher classes.
HOW A WORKINGMAN MADE A FORTUNE
Mr. M , wot king for wag-a over 12 months ago, bought 300 shares n a mine here
£3. and after paying a few monthly calls
These shares or ly cost him altogether £l5, which he paid by monthly instalments, th
not feebn < or missing the amount from his earnings.
For these sh res Mr M mpects to receive in a few in inths !he sum of £l2OO, and
has already received in cividends about £l5O He thinks it possible he may set more
£l2OO, bu 1, anyhow, it is an enormous return for an outlay of £l5 within a little over a
Look at these figure s:—
By sale of 300 shares at £4 per share £l2OO 0
By dividends received .. 150 0 0
Less £1350 0 0
To original cost of shaies, calls, and all other expenditure .. 15 0
£1335 0 0
Close up to £BOOO per cent, Profit. £1335 fo £l5 looks strange, but it's true.
There is every opportunity for »)1 persons ( f every class to invest large or small amoun
from £1 upwards, with certai-tv of gaining great profits
We guarantee if our advice be followed that loss is impossible.
Wi make No Charge for Buying or Selling, for Advice, Telegrams or
Correspond ence.
Everyone Should Write for Particulars, Sent Free.
Leading members of the Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane Stock Exchange will
from their extensive dealings with and personal knowledge of our firm,
That we are most Reliable Advisers and Straightforward in our dealings.
Where clients send us money for discretionary investments on their behalf we exerc
the utmost care. No remittance ihould be under £l. No stamps to be sent. Chequ
postal notes, &c., to be ciossed "Bank of Australasia" Correspondents rt plied to i
mediately, letter or wire
WANTED-LIBBRAL 3P-A."2T.
ISTOTB j\.2<TlD ADDRESS =
Charters Towers, Queensland.
Centrally
situated
AND
ACCESSIBLE
TO ALL THE LEADINC
BUSINESS
HOUSES
IN THE
CITY
DAN I ELLS IMPERIAL HOTEL
BRISBANE
THE MOST COMFORTABLE
dbhdfc
SOUTH
OFTHE
EQUATOR
m
m
I
I Dll Dili
Hi
Ti
aiNva
r2ff®
II
£2
□
gjM
m
j^ul
THREE MINUTES
DRIVE
FROM THE
RAILWAY
STATION
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
WITH AIL THE
MERCANTILE
HOUSES
BANKS&c.
Private Suites with Luggage Room aitached for the convenience of ladies. Ladies’ Drawing-room, with a magnificent view of the Brisbane River and
One-Tree Hill. Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths. COMMERCIAL ROOM.
Gentlemen's Smoking, Beading, and C orresponding Boom. All Letters and Telegrams applying for Apartments w II reeeivc prompt attention. €. 11. DANIELL.
OPERA HOUSE.
Under the Management of Mr. B. N. Jones.
“KISS ME, DARLING."
“ROARS"
“ SORE AMS.”
“CONVULSIONS.”
AT TBE EXTRAORDINARY SITUATIONS
of
A NIGHT OFF.
RITERION THEATRE
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon
Last 3 Weeks
Last 3 Weeks
Bast 3 Weeks j
of
r Fourteen Nights Only
Fourteen Nights Only
I Fourteen Nights Only
BROUGH and BOUCICAULT’S
IMMENSELY SUCCESSFUL COMEDY and
DRAMATIC SEASON,
which can in no cafe extend beyond tbe 2nd prox ,
in consequence of previous arrangements made
for the popular “ Crherion.”
THE PICKPOCKET.
THE PICKPOCKET.
THE PICKPOCKET.
Dress Circle, 55.; Stalls, 35.; Upper Circle, 25.;
Gallery Is. W. J- WILSON, Manager.
Seats may be secured six days in advance.
Thhatrh royal.
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. Sam. Lazar.
MAGNIFICENT SCENERY by GORDON.
WONDERFUL MECHANICAL EFFECTS.
This and Every Evening at a quarter to 8.
ALONE IN LONDON.
Prices as usual.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s Hotel.
Alhambra music hall
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp.
OUR THIRD YEAR, OUR THIRD TEAR,
and
Minstrel Shows come and go, but we go on
for ever.
BRITANNIA’S BOWER
BRITANNIA’S BOWER
BRITANNIA’S BOWER
BRITANNIA’S BOWER
BRITANNIA’S BOWER.
To escape the rush every evening at our Ticket
Box, procure your tickets during the day.
Orchestra Chairs, 2s j Stalls, Is; Balcony, 6d.
Y M - °* A ’ HAL L.
MONDAY, 22nd August; WEDNESDAY, 24th
August; MONDAY, 29th; WEDNESDAY, 31st.
MONDAY, August 22nd,
(Vice-Regal Command Night.)
Under the Distinguished Patronage and in the
presence of His Exce’lency Lord Carrington,
K.C.8,, P.C , and Lady Carrington and suite.
Sir Alfred Stephen, Lieutenant Governor.
Sir Henry Parkes, K C.M.G., and Lady Parkes.
Sir Fredenck Darley, C. J., and Lady Darley.
The Right Hon. W. B. Dailey, P.C.
Sir John Hay (President L.C.) and Lady Hay.
Sir William Manning (Chancellor of the Univer-
sily) and Lady Manning.
His Worship the Mayor and Mayoress of Sydney.
Sir George and Lady Inness.
The Hon. J. E. Salomons, Q C., and Mrs.
Salomons.
The Hon. William Macleay and Mrs. Macleay.
The Hon. S. A. Stephen and Mrs. Stephen.
J. S. Mitchell, Fsq., and Mrs. Mitchell.
W. Cooper, Esq., and Mrs. Cooper.
FIRST APPEARANCIE OF AMY SHERWIN
Australia’s Queen of Song.
Complete change of programme every evening.
August 22.
Programme :
1. Duett, “ The Fishermen ” Gabussi.
Messrs. STOCKWELL and SHERWIN.
2. La Nosze di Figaro Mozart.
SIGNOR LUIGI LENCIONI.
3. Violin Solo, “ Otello Fantasie ” Ernst.
HERR JOHANN RHODES.
4. “ Couplets du My soli” F. David.
(La Perlo du Bresil) with Flute obligato,
AMY SHERWIN.
5. The Message Blumenthal.
MR. HENRY STOCKWELL.
Interval.
6. St. Matrimonio Donizetti.
SIGNOR LUIGI LENCIONI.
7-
/ (a) The Forest’s Greeting. |
I (b) Spring Flowers. /
Reinecke.
Violin obligato Herr Johann Rhodes.
AMY SHERWIN,
8. Violin Solo, “ Faust Fantasi« ” Tarasate.
HERR JOHANN RHODES.
9. The Swiss Echo Sorg Eckert.
AMY SHERWIN.
10. Springtime Fesca.
MR. HENRY STOCKWELL.
Doors open at 7 o’clock. To commence at 8 o’clock.
Carriages at 10 o’clock.
Wednesday, August 24, Second Concert.
Reserved Seats, os.; Season tickets, 17s. 6d., at
Paling’s. Admission to galleries, Halt-a-Crown
and One Shilling.
HUGO GORLITZ, Manager.
THEATRE ROYAL,
ROCKHAMPTON.
THE above Is the only Licensed House In
Rockhampton for holding Theatrical or
other Entertainments, and can be engaged for
any term upon application to
CHARLES NASH,
Lessee.
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
MACKAY.
UNSURPASSED accommodation for commer-
cial travellers, and families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy meets every steamer.
I make comfort of travellers a special study.
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V, ROBINSON,
Proprietor.
gbdT gbd. gbd.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
BBTAH PIPES,
KNOWN AS THE BEST ALL OVER THE WOBLD,
Still maintains its P' eßtige and stands pre-eminent among
lh« hosts of o‘h-r brands as
THE BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Baware of Spurious Imitations.
Th-> undersigned are prepared to enforce the Law against
all persoos imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLD r C=TViDT & CO,
231, OLARFNCE-STREET.
GBD. G-BTX
WehaveLa-ge fhipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to hantt, md Regular Shipments coming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF ALL THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE,
NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
RB. JONES, Importer and General Agent,
• t EMOVED to No. 6 BRIDGE-STREET.
SYDNEY.
AGENTS WANTED to handle our new lines
of fast-selliDg Subscription Books, &c., &o.
Full particulars free on application. Address :
R. B. JONES, 6 Bridge-st-, Sydney.
ALAN B. BRIGHT,
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
gfb
ofjSydney ;
JENOLAN CAVES. BLUE MOUNTAINS,t*
316 GEORGE ST between Hunter ST*C.RO.
A STRAIGHT TIP
FOR
THE MELBOURNE GUP.
A MORAL.
Send Is. in stamps and addressed envelope,
8., Box 806, G. P. 0., Sydney.
High-class Dentistry | at Reform Prices.
ART IFICI At TEETH
- 4 j
MARSHALLBRO
s
DENTISTS
133 ELI Z ABEtH ST
Teeth painlessly extracted under nitrous oxide
gas, daily at 11.


More retrenchment. Premier Parkes
told a deputation from the unemployed the other
day that the 4000 men on relief works are to be
discharged because their employment is a dis-
grace to the colony, and N.S.W. is the best
country in the world for the working men.
At Sydney School of Arts debating class,
the other night, the motion : “ That the Repub-
lican Union recently formed in Sydney is both
ridiculous and unnecessary,” was lost by 13 votes
to 9. A vote of the crowded audience resulted in
a forest of hands being held up against the
motion, only 22 votiDg for it.
At the Sydney Quarter Sessions, last
Monday, Charles Collins, for theft, was let off !
with 12 months’ imprisonment because he had
previously borne an excellent character. Also, j
about a week ago, William Kastket, who seems
to have no character worth talking about, nearly
killed a total stranger, and got three months.
Proputty must be protected.
Here the Argus lapses into a confession :
“ Although kapok,” it says, “ is bought largely by
the wealthy, yet it is nearly three times as dear as
flock." Although, mark you. That is to say, as
a general rule the millionaire is several hundred
times as stingy as the wretch without a penny in
his pocket, hence the paragraph is redeemed from
being at all inconsequential. But we knew it all
long.
Many investors hold back from dabbling
in ventures on the splendid Croydon (Q.) goldfield
because no leases will be issued before January.
Messrs. MTlwraith and M'Eachern state that
they have already invested £23,000 locally. Many
crushiDgs have gone splendidly, the King of
Croydon mine having yielded as high as 20oz per
ton. Water is scarce, and rations dear, there is
no alluvial for the poorer diggers, and the road
afrom Normanton is execrable.
Dear Bulletin.— On the Castlereagh we
always do to others as we would be done by, so
I’ll give you two examples of reciprocity. Some
well-known squatters were travelling their stock,
before the late drought, and came to where a
splendid dam had backed up the water across the
road. They talked of cutting the dam when the
squatter told them that anyone might cross over
it high and dry and quicker than aloDg the road.
This they did after a little bounce ; but on their
return the road was dry, and they begged a drink
at the dam for 10,000 sheep, which was granted,
as well as the loan of two horses When the
owner of the dam passed the homestead of the
drovers on a knocked-up horse last year they re-
fused him the loan of a remount Verily Mark
T wain is right when he says that the golden rule
is “ Always do unto others somehow.”— Scotty
THE WKINKLER.
The Queensland Government, in calling
for tenders for the ironwork required in con-
structing the Cairns-Horbertson line, annexes as a
condition “that the work be executed in the
colony.”
Pity the sorrow of the poor Melbourne
Argus. Within the short space of three months
it has had the following bad luck. It ran Lambie
for the Melbourne University Council and got
beaten through Dr. Morrison going one higher by
bringing out Bishop Goe. Then Drs. Bevan and
Strong—both dear friends-rounded on it upon the
Home Rule question. And then, worst of all,
ihe Judges of the Supreme Court gave new trials
to C. E. Jones and Rocke Tompsitt and Co. in the
libel actions against it. If we wished further to
point out how the cup brims over we can also
mention how those freetraders in the Gillies
Ministry— the particular pets of the paper - Duncan
Gilies and W. F. Walker, have had to consent to
more Protection in spite of everything.
rjIHE WAY OF THE WORLD.
The trite saying that “ not one-half of the world
knows how the other half gets along,” is exempli-
fied in innumerable ways and distances. And
this is not to be wondered at; for, as the world
grows older, and we trust, better, the inereasin
wants engendered by a progressive civilisation
render farther division of
necessary, even in the humbler avocations of life
It is a fact, recognised by all observing men, tha
almost every trade or pursuit induces some specia
disorganisation of the system characteristic o
such avocation, presenting the paradoxical resul
of a man killing himself, as it were, to live. Such
being the disagreeable and unfortunate condition
of affairs as related to human effort, it is very
obvious that any means of warding off the very
undesirable consequences referred to must be
source of extrema ioy and satisfaction to the
toilers of the earth, as well a 3 of vast profit, in
the aggregate, to the activity and industry of the
world. These observations were suggested upon
recently hearing of a case of “ water rheumatism,’
so called. Any type of this dreaded disease is
severe, and often agjni.ing. Its approach is
sometimes insidious, but more frequently, how
ever, it i 3 the result of cold, and often develops in
a few hours or days at mo3t. It is surprising to
consider how many people are alllicfed with It,
and how serious’a tax upon the'r time and re
sources it is in many instances No branch of in
dustry seems to be free from its disastrous in-
fluence, as the’following experience, related by Mr
George Drake, 46 and 48, Oakstreet, Indianapolis,
Ind., goes to show: —“I am now, and have been
employed in buggy-washing in a livery stable for
two years. My calling requires me to be in the
water for hours at a time, and I contracted what
is called, in our occupation, water rheumatism.
I used a dozen different remedies, without any
benefit, and was getting mightily discouraged,
when I noticed a reference in a local paper to an
article called St. Jacobs oil. I thought I would
try a bottle, and did begin its use. I found it gave
me immediate relief; and after employing four
bottle 3 of the oil I am entirely cured. I have
personally told my friends that are in the same
business, and they all say that it is doing the same
for them that it did for me. The complaint I
speak of is a very severe one. When I began the
use of the oil I had laid off from work on account
of the pains resulting from working in the water,
will c)itinue tc us 3 the oil, anl [ know I can
work in water by its u o all the balanco of my
life without any bad results. This experience and
information may be of service to others working
in the same pursuit as that in which I am engaged,
and I cheerfully give it for the benefit of all so
situated.” Wherever ttere are horses or carriages
there must be an abundant use of water; and, as
already shown, one of the results of constantly
working in the water is the disease called water
rheumatism.” It is certainly a matter of especial
congratulation not only for those workers, but for
all workers—for all mankind really—that such an
efficacious substance exists as the Great German
Remedy. And we also have positive word and
assurance from old and experienced horsemen that
St. Jacobs oil is the very best remedy ever intro-
duced for the quick relief and cure of many of the
ailments “ man’s best friend ’’—the horse. Thus,
if double efficacy, so to speak, constitute an argu-
ment for the adoption of an article, this famous
substance is most certainly entitled to full con-
sideration.— New York Spirit of thk Times.
A cigar contains acetic, formic, butyric, aleric,
and proprionic acids, prussic acid, creosote,
carbolic acid, ammonia, sulphurated hydrogen,
pyridine, viridine, picoline, and rubidine, to say
nothing of cabagine and burdockic acid That’s
why you can't get a good one for less than six-
pence. But Blackwell’s Durham Tobaccos and
Cigarettes are made only from the best leaf
tobacco grown in the celebrated Golden Belt of
North Carolina.
“ What I robody late,” the schoolmaster said,
As he looked at bis pupils’ bright faces ;
This day shall be marked with a letter red—
Each lad before nine is his place is.
Rascals; you’re laughing; explain, I beseech,
Before I commence your lessons to teach.”
Undoing their jackets, the boys in a hurry
Reveal punctuality’s secret— for each
Youth proudly exhibits a new Waterbury.
A man who stole a Waterbury Watch from a
poor laborer the other day was fined and locked
up by the magistrates, horsewhipped by the
watchmaker when he came out, and afterwards
nearly hurried into a brain fever by his wife. The
clergyman of the parish alluded to the little affair
in a sermon, and the local editor, for a wonder,
agreed with the parson and reviewed the occur-
rence in print. All this time it was b' rne in upon
the wretched man that he could have bought the
watch from any storekeeper for 13s 6d, and have
had it reciaired any time at a merely nominal cost
by sending it to the Waterbury Watch Repair
Depot, 56, Market-street, Sydney.
IF YOU CANNOT GET DR. SCOIT’S ELEC-
TRIC BRUSHES where you live, send your
order to the Pall Mall Electric Association, 56,
Margaret-street, Sydney, and add 6d. for postage.
Frice Is. 6d., 6s. 6d., Bs. 6d., 10s. 6d. and 12s. 6d.
each. Bath Brush 17s. 6d , Flesh Brush 12s. 6d ,
and Tooth Brush 2s. They are a certain cure for
nervous diseases.
THE VERDICT OF EXPERTS
and
TEE CHOICE OF THE PEOPLE,
is
CLAUSEN’S NEW YORK CHAMPAGNE
LAGER BEER.
That furred tongue, bad tasting mouth and miserable
feeling say you need American Co's, Hop Bitters. Read and
believe*
A Wonderful Food and Medicine known and used by
Physicians all over the world “Scot s Emulsion” not only
giveß flesh and streugth by virtue of its own nutritious pro-
perties, but creates an appetite for tood that builds up the
wasted body. Read the following:—“ Scott’s Emulsion”
is,in my opinion an excellent and valuable compound. I
have givs nit to Consumptive patients, and have been de-
lighted with the results obtained It is pleasant to the taste,
and can be borne by the most sensitive stomach.
E. A. Rod way, M.D.,
Butter-Knowle, Darlington, Eng.
Large and small bottles at all Chemists.
One of the best managed and cleanest hotels in Sydney 1
the Great Northern, corner Charlotte Place and George
street. Having been thoroughly renovated, Travellers will
find it the cosiest place in Sydney. The shilling luncheon
there is immense *
Balsam of Virginian Prunes a most effectual remedy
for the Coughs, Colds, Croup, Asthma, Influenza, Hoarseness
Bronchitis, Shortness of Breath, &c. Rigne y, late Mitchell,
King-stree
in New South Wales is far less frequent among
tne Colonists and Chinese than formerly. This is owing to the
discovery by them of the curative properties of Freeman’s
Original Chlorodyne. This valuable inedicinecheckstheprog-
ress and rapidly cures all forms of Fevers and Ague, so pre-
valent at certain seasons of the year in many parta of N S W
By the older Colonists it is regarded as a household remedy
and employers of large bodies of workmen always keep a good
stock ef Freeman’s Chlorodyne on their estates Sold
everywhere throughout the Colonies. Insist upon having
i reemen s only. Reject substitutes as they are worthless.
Trade Mark, an Elephant.*
NO-nCE 1-Beware of young Wine. Drink only Hookings
high-class seleoted old vintages, for invalids. 13 Pitt
street. •
£lO,OOO MELBOURNE CUP £lO,OOO
At 20s. each.
Run, Nov.. Ist, 1887.
First Horse, £5,000; 2nd, £2,000; 3rd, £1 000- Starters
£1,000; Non Starters, £1,000; to be divided amongst them
£2,000 MELBOURNE CUP £2,000
First Horse, £l,OOO, 2nd £3OO, 3rd £2OO, to Starters. £250
Non Starters £250, to be divided amongst them. ’
Address—‘ \Tattersall.’’
Care ■ f G Adams,
Tattersall's Hotel,
Pitt-street, Sydney.*
For sinking spells, fits, dizzint ss, palpitation and low spirits
rely on Hop Bitters. Good made by American Co. Not ce*
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF WINTER GOODS.
Fashionable (laments to Order at Moderate Price*
WE have much pleasure in reporting upon
the THIRD FLOOR, as in last Thursday’s
issue we promised we would
The floor we now bring under the notice of our
readers gives an immense space to that class of
Furniture which demands great space, viz., BED-
ROOM FURNITURE.
As well play Hamlet without the Ghost as omit
from our present chapter—(the third of our series
upon where and how to furnish thoroughly, safely
and economically)—as well omit the Ghost from
that great creation of Shakespeare’s as believe
our task were well handled were we not to treat
fully of the BEDROOM FURNITURE FLOOR at
LAWLKR’S CENTRAL EMPORIUM, Sydney.
We where shown an invoice of a shipment of
really first class English made English-grown Ash
Suites, comprising:—Wardrohe, with silvered
pi at? glass door, with nang-up compartment and
deep drawer under, carved and scribed panels
and neat mou’ded cornice, full 4ft* wide; Dressing
Table, full size double, with glass attached,
jewel-drawera in frieze and j=wel-drawer mounts;
full double marble-top Washstand, with handsome
tiled back and drawers in fiieze; Pedestal Cup]
boards; Towel Rail, and two handsome and ef-
fective Chairs; and the whole suite can be sold at
£lB 10s. The lot invoiced was 150. An immense
consignment, truly, and probably the greatest
single consignment of Bedroom suites ever given
by a Furnishing House in this or any other country,
Upon asking how long it took to dispose of so large
aconsignment of a given line, the salesman turned
up his order-book and pointing to a “hotel” line
booked the day previous, showed 27 suites as going
to one customer. “Those sort of lines soon dis-
pose of a line of 150,” said he, “ and our hotel
trade is so great that we are bound to hold great
quantities of certain lines.” But it is not to hotel-
keepers only that we sell this £lB 10s. full-sizes
Ash Suite; bnt to gentlemen furnishing city or
country res'dence, and we calculate to dispose of
200 Ash Suites a year, because were we to try our
hand at a Kauri Pine Suite of the size and stylo
of this Ash Suite we could not turn out a credit-
able suite under £22 or £23. We examined the
suite, and recommend others to do so, and have
no hesitation in declaring it REMARKABLE
AND A STONISHING VALUE. Passing through
the room with its great stock, and Ps many
passages walled with Suites, Toilet Pairs and
Duchosse Chests, and Commodes, and Wardrobes
and Chests of Drawers, we had our attention
called to the j ondon Fancy Suite at £!) 10s. This
Suite at LaWLKR’S has had a very great sale.
There is a glass-door Ward rode with hung-up
compartment and drawer under. Dressing Chest
of Drawers with glass fixed and jewel drawer
mounts.
Marble-top Washstand with fancy tiled back.
Chairs &c. It is handsomely enamelled and
japanned; a light oak and finished with b'ack
lines. We repeat surprise at the fact of so compact
and serviceable a suite being sold at the figure.
£!) 10s. for a suite in fnll is a figure that ought
to be within the reach of all. Of course, the
secret of these low prices of LAWLER’S for goods
that none can gainsay is in the immense turnover.
We had ample evidence of a colossal turnover in
Bedsteads ar.d Hair aud Kapok Bedding and in
Carpets and Floorcloths, but when at the -;cour-
teous request oi the Manager of the Emporium
wo examined the workmen’ - order books and saw
the vans being loaded one after the other, and
found consignment upon consignment packed in
the packing rocm and ready for dispatch by
steamer and ra 1 to all piarts of the colony, we
felt bound to express surprise at the amount of
Bedroom and Diningroom Iloavy Furniture mado,
imported and delivered daily by LaWLER’S
In Walnut and in Genuine English Pitch Pine
are to be found some Magnificent Suites, ranging
in prices from £4O to £7O.
Great Ash Suites, with full 6ft. Wardrobes and
fitted up with shelves and sliding trays and
drawers, with hang-up compartments at wing
ends, together with all the other articles necessary
in a first-class suite, and £35 the price.
We must not forget that there are more than
the wealthy who furnish. The Cottager can fur-
nish at LAWLER’S more completely and with
greatar satisfaction and at less money than at any
houre in Australasia.
And when one comes to consider LAWLER’S
long connection with the trade, a connection dat-
ing almost from the time of Captain Cook, as the
customers at the Emporium and all the old
identities say, we lepeat that when it is borne in
mind that he has been the pioneer in all matters
of reform in the furnishing trade, and has his
factories at the door of his central showrooms,
and that the factories are all fitted with the latest
and best possible machinery, and that steam power
is largely availed of, we repeat that with these
hundred and one advantages over his compeers,
there is small thanks due to him or his Emporium
for securing the lion’s share of the Furnishing
Trade. 6
But it is only those advantageously placed like
the proprietor of the Central Umporium, who can
sell at so low a rate of profit.
For instance, what can one expect, better value
in than Lawler’s Single Bedroom Suite, compris-
ing
Dressing Chest of Drawers, with glass attached.
Large Single Marble'top Washstand, half circle
and sold at *2 17s. 6d.
Then there are Waehstands at Bs. 6d. and 10s.
6d., and 12s. 6d.
Of course there are Washstands running into
very high figures as well.
Chests of Drawers fend Wardrobes abound.
3-Drawer Chests, 255.; 4-Drawer Chests, 325. Gd.-
7-Drawer, large Chests, 50s.
Chests of Drawers, very large and all hand-made
£6 103. to £lO 10a.
Wardrobes, with silvered glassplate doors best
style, £7 10s., £8 10a.
Upon the third floor at one end may be found
DiniDgroom Tables, at 14s. 6d., 225., 30s.
Kitchen Dressers, 215., 403., 525. 6d., 655.
Kitchen Safes, 11s , 135., 155., 17s. 6d.
Large Safes, suited for Mansions or Hotels 90s
Chiffonier Sideboards, £2 10s.
As in our next Saturday’s issue will be found
the chapter upon the second floor—the floor upon
which the Drawing and Diningroom Furniture
may be found, we will close our review of the
Bedroom Furniture Floor by saying it is complete
in every requirement, and that the goods will be
found all soundly constructed and of excellent
style, and the prices low being those of the manu.
facturer.
For furnishing economically and well, we muBt
commend
THE CENTRAL EMPORIUM (LAWLER’S),
608 George-st, Sydney.


674
GEORGE ST, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
is the Only Address of the
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION,
IMPORTING RIRECT,
and Selling at LONDON PRICES,
in fact it is the Cheapest place for buying all kinds
of Musical Instruments and every pescription of
Fittings, and purchasers will do well before buying
to compare our prices with others.
No connection with any other firm.
Sole Agents in Australia
FOR
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
ECMAH Till STEMS,
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6,
6/- and 5/6 a set,
Single ones in proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d„ and Is. each,
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d, Is., and Is. 3d. each.
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Guitar, Cello, Viola, Double Bass, Harp,
Zithar, &c., &o,
o
o*o
ACCORDEONS, at 7/6, 10/6. 12/6. 15/-, 17/6, 21/
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, to £6.
Speciality i Miniature Aocordeon, double bellowi
strong tone, 21/-
„ Ditto, oak wood, patent steel notei
42/-
10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality: Tyrolese Violin, with case, bow, and
instruction book, 35/-.
„ Italian Violin, with case (lock and key)
Bow, Tutor, and extra set of
strings, £2 10s.
„ French Violin, with extra finished
oase, full mounted bow, Tutor,
2 extra set of strings and fittings
£4 10s.
4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-,
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Speciality i Steel noted Rosewood Concertina
in box with key 35/-
il Splendid Organ-toned Concertina,
in box with key 21/-
Mofuea
bl; 7/6, 10/-, 12/6. 15/-, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-,
up to £l2 12s.
Speciality: Walter Howard Model Nickel Banjo,
£3 3s.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10s.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality: 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case,
for £2 10s.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
nigger minstrel troupes fitted out.
Ordens promptly attended to, and all instru-
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
the colonies.
Enquities attended to by return of post,
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
674 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
MASON BROTHERS,
&
imip
LIMITED,
268 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, for
SALE bo the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky,
J. SORIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
.. T. GAYEN*S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
Prince of Wales Hotel,
MACKAY (QUEENSLAND).
FIRST-CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and families, private sitting
rooms without extra charge.
Billiard Room, plunge and shower Baths, large
Sample Rooms.
MARTIN GIBSON,
Proprietor.
pLATK,
SHEET, and ORNAMENTAL
(WINDOW GLASS
White Lead, Oils, Colours, Varnishes, &o.
Paperhanglngs, Dadoes, Friezes, &o.
Mouldings, Backboards, and Toilet Glasses
Overmantels, Silvering and Bevelling.
USffiALIAN GLASS COMPANY, Lim„
281 GEORGE STREET.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The A. G. Co. are selling
iha above goods at a large discount from nsual
prices, being the stock taken over from Mr. A.
Barth wick,
nquirle will have prompt attention.
Take all in all.
—Take all the Kidney and Liver
Medicines,
—Take all the Blood purifiers,
—Take all the Rheumatic remedies.
—Take all the Dyspepsia and indigestion
Cures,
—Take all the Ague, Fever, and bilious
specifics,
—Take all the Brain and Nerve force
revives,
—Take all the Great health restorers.
In short, take all the best qualities of all these
and the— best
Qualities of all the best medicines In the
world, and you will find that— Bop Bitters have
the best curatives qualities and powers of all—
concentrated in them.
—And that they will cure when any or all of
these, singly or— combined. Fail 111!
A thorough trial will give positive proof of
this.
Hardened liver.
Five years ago I broke down with kidney and
liver complaint and rheumatism.
Since then I have been unable to be about at all.
My liver became hard like wood ; my limbs were
puffed up and filled with water.
All the best physicians agreed that nothing
could cure me. I resolved to try Hop Bitters ; I
have used seven bottles ; the hardness has all gone
from my liver, the swelling from my limbs, and it
has worked a miracle in my case; otherwise I
would have been now in my grave.
J. W. Morey, Buffalo, Oct. 1, 1881.
Poverty and Suffering.
“ I was dragged down with debt/poverty and suffering for
years, caused by a sick family and large bills for doctoring.
I was completely discouraged, uutil one year ago, by the
advice of my pastor, I commenced using Hop Bitters, and in
one month we were all well, and none of us have Been a sick
day since, and I want to say to all poor men, you can keep
your families well a year with Hop Bitters for less than one
doctor s visit will cost. I know it.’ 1
A Workingman,
Prosecute the Swindlers !!
If when you call for American Hop Bitters [see green twig
of Hops on the white label and Dr. Soule's name blown in the
bottle), the vendor hands out anything but American Hop
Bitters, refuse It and shun that vendor as you would a viper;
and if he has taken your money for anything else indict him
tor the fraud and sue him for damages for the swindle, and
we will pay you liberally for the conviction.
ONUM K N T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on reaues 1
<l. CUNNINGHAM,,
HißlMnill, Wv«W*BD-g<iniM, BVDWV'r
fcbfc
'dis
¥
5#
Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
from;
J 5: 1
CvqJ!
'V/,
Scrofula on Necfc.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer ]
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood; •
have been obliged to shun public places by reason -
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got •
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies, ;
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood'. 1
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page )
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.” i
Australian 'Consignees,
R. Towns <Ss Co., New South Wales. ]
CUTICURA RESOLVE?, , the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jeliy for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
•Inlets throughout Australia, Tasmania, and .New
Aj.' : :i. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
fI.W; "Juticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
'e, r, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
pcs UjrUe,
Prepared by the
Potter Grug & Chemical Co., Boston, TT.S.A.
THE GREAT BLOOD PURIFIER
BRISTOL'S SARSAPARILLA
la the Safest and best Purifier of the Blood and Humors. It la infallible In its power
to cleanse the Human body, and where it is used according to directions, there can be no
unelean Eruptions , no Pimples , no Blotches , no Boils , but instead thereof a Clear Smooth
Soft Skin. The fact is of the first importance to Ladies who take pleasure in A FINE
COMPLEXION. No cosmetic, no wash or lotion will so surely give you a beautiful akin
as will the use of
BRISTOL’S SARSAPARILLA,
and to those who are already afflicted with any skin disease, we say In all good faith try
this great medicine, and, our word for it, you will obtain all we here promise.
Full directions how to take this most valuable medicine will be found on the label of
each bottle.
Caution. —As there are In this market numerous Inferior so-called Sarsaparillas’ the
Public who desire this great Blood Purifier should be careful to ask for Bristol's.
CAN BE OBTAINED FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS,
B R ADiSI, NEWTON, ft LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS 1
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and C’CONNELL STREETS
dcfb
C 0 5? PIANOFORTE,
3600 guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Triohord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, bril ant
tone, In handsome oase.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only,
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb,
IMPORTERS o f PIANOFORTES by the’MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Con*
nell-street.
fcb
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s 6d.
Bradley, Newton, & Lamb,
BKNTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment, just opened, many quite new
designs.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &o. Bradley, New*
ton, and Lamb.
liilUilllllllll
Full suites for dining-room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to matoh.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet, i
WALNUT TELESCOPE DINING TABLES;
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
gcfb
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS
in
GREAT VARIETY.
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB,
Spring & O'Connell sts,
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &o.
VERY ELEGANT. Bradley, Newton
and Lamb.
"'VT OVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
JJI SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-streefc.
WAJjL-MIRRORS and BRACKETS, noveltieß
in Plush and Velvets, and in all Woods,
from ss. 6d. each.
Elegant Venetian mirrors, richly
enamelled, in colours. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
w..
□□
Drawing room cabi
NETS, Early English anfl
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Fuknituki Wabbhouhbmmt,
Importers of High-art
Fnrnltnre,
O’Connell and Spring Streeti,
Drawing-room furniture.-The latest
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection la
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Manufacturers, Spring and O’Connell streets.
• ■-
. ti
uffi? us?
OVERMANTEL MlRRORS.—Handsome,
fashionable designs in black and gold, with
side shelves; also, in oak and walnut wood, at
all prices. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Gonnell
streets.
ASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Liteary, or Bed-
rooms. New designs oovered to order In
any material.
OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
fnl, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
bcb
Bedsteads, an si*e«
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety,
Bedding,—All descriptions at
lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and:
LAMB,
Importers,
O'Connell and Spring Street!,
cbfc
SPRING MATTRASSHS
Woven Wire, belt
make i alao, Spiral Sprint*
Price, from 14a. eaob,
BRAULBT, WIWrON and LAMF,


“The Hons. Salomons and Garrett have been tourirg together in one of the N.S.W. country districts." —Sydney Paper.
SALOMONS (to Garrett, loq): “HUMPH! A YEAR OR TWO AGO WE MIGHT HAVE FELT A BIT UNCOMFORTABLE IN THE SAME BUGGY.”


sm ;
xKOjmroiroxas,
afACHEVEBY MEBOHAiVTS,
SIS GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
o
o
s
IRONMONGERS
x
Q
$Aj
REG?
O
x
£
vT
i'S .■■
SPECIALITIES l
Davis' Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Faint, Alto Carbon Light
ELECTRO PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
GAS COOKING STOVES t—LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS * WALKER'S
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &o„ 800,
YOUR HEALTH!
AGAINST ALL RISKS!!
BY TAKING
FLUID lIMHESIJL
N pL?! a Healthy Flow of the Secretions,
mes the System against the Shafts of Disease.
THE fi EST APERIENT FOR CHILDREN.
numerous gold, medals.
* fc
os TO ALL OTBEB
Testimonials, Analysis, &c., accompanying each bottle).
Sold
ONLY KRUSE’S.
k 1,1 ®°ttles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d.. and 3s. 6d. each.
to*. *
‘ , GRIMWADE & CO., Melbourne.
W "AT !S YOUR HOBBY?
hai
ri it yt
> otl H oUrB '
&££*»
cw; a Ke .
4:>\;
«y p v
X
r i
The "•oat of every requisite
1 tti
for a beginner;is so low, 16'will
surprise you..
Satisfy yourself Jby a visit
{j .
to our 5 „
M ' '
WHOLES|Tji|ygI. •••
PHOTOGRAPHIC^
WAREHOUSE?*"
fJ JITNER AND CO.»
°'°ONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
to
odse for Photographic Supplies
Southern Hemisphere.
tav
®® w Enlarging Department in work, and shall be pleased to
_ *i»fca upon application to the trade only..
°trß 3ST El W OATALOG-ÜB.
i upon application to the trade only,
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Bhanohes:
64 PXTT-STREET, and 638 GEORGE-STREKT.
Paid-up Capital £1,000.000
Reserve fund ... m 500,009
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commer
cial and Travellers Letters of Credit.
. Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
A.A.DE.BNEY & C?
«3 HUNTER STREET,SYDNEY.
smm MAKERS?
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
PATENT
PILLS.
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive -
ness,scurvy, blotches on
theskin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, Ac. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
done it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEBCHAH’S
PILLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the system. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digeswn and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of healtjfthe whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous' and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have ths largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world,
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
Asa remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to tire
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Bkbcham’s
Cough Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be
removed.
Caution. —The public are requested to notice that
she words “ Bkecham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancasnire, England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d.
each. —Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B. —Full directions are given with each box.
Commercial Hotel, Gympie^Queensland.
milE above is one of the oldest Family and
X Squatting Hotels in the oolohy. Prices
reasonable. Sample Room.
Superior accommodation. Hot and Cold Baths,
Mrs. W. COMPIGNE, Proprietress.
ENGLISH
(iwim v
PERFUMERY
.surpasses all others for its lasting ami natural
fragrance
Three C«tD Mi *ts
PARIS, 1»M, i'AU.:n iA.lefH,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality,
Atkinson’s Newest Perfumes
FAGRJEA & CY-MBIDINM
are of rare and peculiar fragrance, and being
registered can be obtained only of the
Inyentors or their Agents
ATKINSON’S
emwJM
odour It far surpasses the numerous com-
pounds sold under the same name
ATKINSON S, FLORIDA WATER
an exceptionally fine perfume for the hand-
kerchief, distilled from the choicest exotics.
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers —
J. & JR. ATKINSON,
24, 010 Bond Street, London.
.Trade Mark—" White Rose" on " Golden .
fek Lyre." , A
Mowsirs
DIRECT IMPORTING CO.
FOB
mm man,
472 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the|Central Markets;
and at
705 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Anthony Hordern’s, Haymarteefc
Violins,
• 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15-, 20/-, 25/-, with Bow.
ViolihS, in cases, 30/-, 35/-, 50/,
Violins, in cases (superior), 70/- to 435, including
Tutor, Resin, Strings, See.
Speciality:
Old Violins, £B, £lO, £l2, £l7, £2O, £25, £3O,
Concertinas,
4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6 to £25/-.
29-key Anglo-German, by Lachenal. £1 17s. 6cL ,»
20-key Anglo-German, by Lachenal, steel notes
best make, £4 ss.
22-key Anglo-German, by Lachenal, steel note*
best make, £4 10s.
Accordeons,
in great variety, 7/6, to 70/- each.
Special Line—Steel note, with wood case,
£1 17s. 6d.
Cornets,
50/-, 70/-, 84/-. £5 15s„ £lO 10s., to £l6 16s,
Flutes,
8-key Concert, 40/-; Others. 1/6 to 25/* each,
6-key Piccolo, 16/- to 35/-, >
Banjoes, Guitars, &o„ in great variety,
p.O. Orders will be promptly attended to.
s fhg
A
«*jer
•OK
JGH3
B€
BRONCHI
ASTHMA
Air* a chi'jut hffcptigws
Ft
D** RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOB INFANTS .^INVALIDS
Has an enormous sate »n England,
I'Bti tsmow being introduced into th»
Colonics.
E verViStorekeeper should get a supply*
at Vvery wise mother will certain if
use it.,
UR.JUDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS*
LON DON. EN GLAN D.
WJ O H N S O N
• COOPER, SURVEYOR,
and
LICENSED G A U 6 J K
II PHILLIP STREET, and at OOCVKLANE
STREET. SYDNEY.
Wine Casks, Beet. Tieroes and Kepi, fa low
Casks, new and seoond-hand j also, Wins and
Spirit Kegß, at lowest possible ;
IN Alili ITS
* URDU PIIMEIT EDI
LAID All I
\ N*l)
250 PITT STREET.
e Posits received at best Current Bates, 6 per cent, being allowed for moneys at Call.
°* this Society has increased fourfold in two years. Shareholders receive 14 per cent, per annum dividend.
JAMES A. TODD. Managbb


ROYAL KWSff
Mil
POWDER
Absolutely Pure.
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without tha aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
the Royal Baking Powder may be eaten hob, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists,
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government, Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Baking
Powi>er Co., 106 Wall-street, New York U.S.A.
JP. 3E*. IjAKKIM,
IMPORTER,
Family Wine and Spirit Merchant.
PCNIC and WEDDING PARTIES supplied with the Choicest Brands of WINES, SPIRITS,
and BEERS at the most Reasonable Prices, ALL RETURNS BEING ALLOWED FOR.
Notwithstanding the Heavy Customs Imposts, P. R, L. still sells the Best Glass ofjRUM
BRANDY, or WHISKY IN THE CITY FOR THREEPENCE' <j
""“'The SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT is stooked with all the Leading Brands of WINES,
SPIRITS, &0., whieh are sold by the SINGLE BOTTLE AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL,
778 & 780 GEORGE STREET, SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
f
w%
ISTETW
F*ORJSfITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AHD
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED catalogues with price list, free on application,
ISJ
m
w
0 Waho**
ootaiM£-2
ISTH£BEST^T^^
MA^lirA'CTB»W a^ J sif!s' l vJ
A**B° ,j * * e , d itaw
Sold by Ail CroC * rs '
I
D
vND G °
MINING
MININS
CH vETEBS TOME
'"1
J
ASK TOUR GROCER FOR
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
"* AN
OitDIN &.BY
THAN A
ovr
PINE
OONTAIHS MOBS ACTIVE
OP THK BKBI ALE OB
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & tK>.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, *c.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmlthlng, Blaekamithing, Plumbing,'
Oasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Eleofcrio and PneumaSta Bell-fltting, of every description,
BOULTON’S “FLUSH," “VALVE," and “PAN" CLOSETS, “VACUUM" WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &0.
Mole Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Pan Cowls* Fires, Beaters,
Warmers, die.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND 9 MACQUABIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Furr. Paktioclabs and Pkicb on Appucatios.
Custom House Hotel,
BUNDABERG.
First-class Accommodation for Squatters, Com
mercial Travellers, and others,
<ar Private Suites for Families. "5A
Plunge and Shower Bath. Billiards.
Buggy meets every steamer,
HARRY MCCANN, Proprietor.
NORTHUMBEfta'iO HOTEL, Gympie.
First-claws Accommodation for Visitors.
WINES AND SPIRITS OF THE CHOICEST
, BRANDS. .
,7. F, F, "TOWa RT. Proprietor.
mm
THIS SPACE RESERVED FOR E. ROWLANDS.
A LOVELY S
beautiful com.:’ xiofi. soft, smooth .ud delicate neck. face, hands and arms dan best beobtuined
by discarding - . odea and greasy cosmetics uial -clitii-j ■ soap wm, iclt. not being. ailavmu to
remain on the ' in cs.-jik ' iVr’-iavo an.
l ,<mni
kt * * ? ¥ mJktikjA
A
:<j¥
» cooling, soothing, healing and refreshing preparation for, the face, hands and aims ef all
exposed to the heat and dust of summer ox the c .id mid darapof winter; it eradicates freckles,
W> sunburn, stings, rodnoss and roughness of the skin caused by eold wind# or foe use of hard
water, removes pimples, spots, discolorations, chilblains, eczema, etc., relieves inflammation,
burns, scalds, inflamed eyes, and renders a chapped and rough skin delightfully nmoiiluma
pleasant. Gentlemen after shaving will fluid it allays all, irritation and tenderness of t lie skin;.
it is warranted free from any lead or mineral ingredients, can be used with impunity ori the
skin of the most delicate lady or child,
fa. 64, and Bs. 6d. per bottle ; bottles of half the usual
size at 2s. Sot, ,
ROWUMS’ MACASSAR, OIL promotes the growth of the hair, and
is also seed in a geidon. colour for fair-haired people.
BBWtAS*SS’ QBOWTO whitens the teeth, prevents decay, and gives a
piooajij/ fragrance to the breath. Ask anywhere for BOWLANOS' articles, of B»,Hatton
Garden! London, and avoid cheap, worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents—Elliott Bros., and K. Prossrr & Co., Syfiney,
GENUINE SODA WATER.
TEC El
Syitia Mi Water Ci
15 STDNBY.
FiEE
PRESCRIPTIONS are to
be found in the “ LIGHT AND
life,” for the speedy core of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this
book will be sent free, sealed. Address—
a WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
, 76 Hunter-street, Sydney,
s-\
vT 6
>■/
/ t'
#/ori
yM
m
WA
Mas mm
itftCAM WOKXS.XtHf
Ca4-<w ««•*
. re? #*»m 0* sme frrgjtt *
If' L: ' V.-fr*
T'H E SCIENCE OF LIFE,
By W. Knox Parker, M.D.'
A Book for young and old men. 200 pages®
bound In cloth, and contains oyer 100 prescrip
bions. Price, poet paid, 3s. 6d. Descriptive
sample free. Those suffering from Nervous ex-
haustion and Diseases should send at once for this
valuable work. Address: Doctor W. K.
Parker, Pest Office Chambers, comer Bourke and
Elizabeth Streets, Melbourne. Vic.
: 2
Guinri^ 0
FIRST
A
■ y ,
,, ".it* :
1 y,
*v. BAlCHl^rj<
X
o» ® s
WINK
W&? f
53*
Coonw
mrs,.
T. WILLIAMS & 00.,
IMPORTERS OP
British & Foreign Boots &, Bmm i
Alio Manufacturer of
Thr Finest Quality or Goods in shew above JUneb.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
fbhfh
Cig-fe-x ZSI-sraan.
(Next Royal Standard Theatre.)
Best kinds of Tobacco, Cigars and Pipes.
ii. OLtRFOTiD,
CASTLKRKAGH STREET.
BASt
gr
KIB0T-
Priya w3r V
Good , <> ' y
1
