

The Bulletin
r E LEAD. COMPETITION FOLLOWS
■V
Instrument
WR SIFHY ISSJfIAIM
|\t ' ••
L af g6Bt, Best, and Cheapest place in Australia for all kinds of MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS and FITTINGS, from a
TELI D
,)
_ _ __
! ®NTS in Australia for Signor Zampanani’s celebrated ROMAN VIOLIN STRINGS; also, for Percy Ewington and
1 11 / 1 . • Try A ■% T T /"X 1 ■% m*rx TXT /N
’s Harp to ou OHiarcli Organ I
„ Co.’s celebrated American BANJO STRINGS.
will do wisely before buying to compare our prices with others, and look at our past and future advertisements
in The Bulletin.
I :C>:bo:n ’ s -
s J AT STYLES on hand.
I s. fij
a * U P VO £<i 10J.
\
'■““Na' 01 * I**''' 1 **'''
2^ Co^r°n ) double bellows,
»s. ;.i
Vli . _ *'«■ 6d.
II bJi* Avcordeon, double
0 S .
FZL.TTTFS, FIFES, AND PICCOLOES.
ABOUT 300 DIFFERENT SORTS IN STOCK.
From Is. (id. up to £lO.
Speciality : B~K°y D Pmoert Flut**, sliding h^a 4 , by best
Fngusn maker, in case, for £2 10a.
BANJOES.
From ss. (id. up to £l5.
Speciality : Walter Howard Model Nickel Banjo, 0 or 7 string, £o.
CO3STGE3B,TXISr AS.
OVER 450 DIFFERENT STYLES OV HA.ND.
From 4s. (id. u;> to £2O.
Speciality:
Gennm« 1 a w'n-Germa '. .'55/-.
Genuine 'LaiT.on 1 a man, atei 1 nob is, 50/*
to
b &’ er Mmstrel Troupes Fitted Out. Brass Bands and Omm and Fife Bands supplied
throughout. All kinds of Musical Instruments skillully repaired.
goods packed carefully and sent to any part of the cjionies. Enquiries always promptly attended to.
BE MADE PAYABLE TO
touis SIMONSEN, 674 George-st., Sydney.


m
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES KPRICES POST FREE
,W.H.PALING&<2 um '"
f 356 GEORGE ST SYDNEY.
fIAIto.ORGAN f MUSIC IMPORTERS.
Largest stock and greatest Variety in Australia the
bublicthe widest possible choice.- PIANOS from£4o, ORGANS from£l2-
• PAYMENT 8Y monthly 1 instalments to suit all customers
PALING PR LING It &
7WlM«fti)ttMt t HMfFTinif iThiTTmi
muMun
3.'-
esro
/ass
GoiPfHSrtpri
7/tCAC l£
RffMfRS
iilEPOCTmiMyii
3^^
MMOLMJAI A&OI3VJ 13 DU JO
BRANCH. C CORGI ST. SYDHCY
THE AUSTRALIAN BANKING COMPANY,
LIMITED,
HEAD OFFICE :
CORNER Of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Incorporated by Act op Executive Council.
CAPITAL, £500,000 STERLING.
RESERVE, £36,718 STERLING.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS—
The Hon. Francis Abigail,
M.L.A.
John Hurley, Esq., M.L. A.
J. F. Martin, Esq.
John Vann, Esq.
J. H. Nathan, Esq.
John Scott, Esq.
Arnold Mathey, Esq.
ETfee dividend declared and paid to tie Shareholders a the
st Annual General Meeting, held on the 28th July last,
W Dividend* paid to Shareholders at the rate of 12£ per cent.
Bonus paidto Depositors of 12 months (2 per cent)
6 „ ll per cent)
The Bank transacts all usual Banking Business.
Current accounts opened, Bills Discounted, and
makes Advances upon all kinds of Commercial
Securities.
Agencies in London and throughout the world
OVERDRAFTS
GRANTED AGAINST DEPOSITS
OF DEEDS.
Deposits Received.
Interest Allowed i
At Call, 4 per cent.
3 Months, 5 per cent.
6 Months, 6 per cent.
12 Months, 7 per cent.
WITH BONDS ADDITIONS TO DEPOSITSfOF
SIX AND TWELVE MONTHAL^
Depositors can arrange to withdraw the whole
or portion of their deposits without notice, and
will he allowed current interest for the period of
deposit. „ . ,
The Share Register is still open, and intending
Shareholders can obtain upon application any
information they require, also printed copies of
report, minutes, forms of application for shares,
fkc., See. ***•
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
H. M‘NAMARA,
SECRETARY
CAUTION.
*HK UNITED HOBSE-SHOE & NAIL CO., Lmd.
CUSTOMERS of the Uuited Horse Shoe aud
Nail Company are cautioned against pur-
chasing a spurious nail, made in imitation of the
“Globe” nails, and which are exported from
Germany.
The nails in question are made of inferior metal,
wad are not so well finished as those of The United
Horse-shoe and Nail Company, Limited.
All boxes of The United Company are branded
U.B-S. and N. Co., and customers should take
care that they get the boxes so marked.
By order.
R. S. HAZEON, Secretary.
115 Cannon-etreet, London, K.C.,
June, 1887.
WILLS’ HOTEL, Mackay, Queensland.
EDMUND DUNNOCK, Proprietor.
Travellers and Families will find the old well-
known reputation maintained.
TMPBRIAL HOTEL, TOWNSVILLE.
Proprietress, SARAH EATON,
late of Muswellbrook and Rockhampton.
MT First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Masonic hotel, east-street, rock-
HAMPTON.—T. MURPHY, Proprietor.
Wayside Gleanings:—The “Western Cham-
pion” says: “ I can recommend the Rockhampton
|f a qnn<n to my western friends.’
LEICHHARDT HOTEL,
ROCKHAMPTON.
Proprietress —Mrs. J. GIBBS,
(Late of Westwood.
First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
USE MOONEY’S CORN EXTRACTOR.
A
SAFE AND SPEEDY CURE.
HAS NEVER FAILED.
Price, 2s. 6d. per bottle.' 1
Posted t© all parts of the colonies free on receipt
Of stamps, mi v ‘ ’"•
MfOONEY, Chemist, Cootamundra, N.S.W.
Palace FamiJy Hotel,
Corner of Stanley and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
First-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments.
Admitted the coolest and best ventilated
house in the city.
DAVID LYONS, Proprietor.
jgXCELSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
to, Bituated comer of Gill and Church-streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
CiO a, ' Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tic-
Doloreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs
Face, or Head.
Why Buffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Rel ief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary! In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE POh FLIGHT
ROSE’S CELEB BRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Bole Proprietor,
fi. 1. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Obcmist,
681 Geor?e-streefc only.
DR. O’CONNELL has removed to Edgar
House, No. 8 Bligh-street. Dr. O’Connell
does not need to advertise at all. His patients,
grateful for their cure and restored health and
vitality, and thankful for the sympathy shown to
them, and also the moderation of the charges,
advise their friends to consult and be cured.
Consultation (by person or letter) free.
Dr J. O’CONNELL,
Edgar House
Corner Bligh and Hunter streets,
SYDNEY,
o'-
o'
* E ORICINAI
v *o« N Bak/vc
•6?.’
!
ri|ST CLASS AWARD
OH
I HIGHEST DEGREE OF VFRIT *,
ISTHE BEST INTHE WORLD
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUGH’S
RECEIVED THE INTE RN ATI QN AW
PR ! Z £L MEDAL
Manufactured byJamesChanhon
Harbour S T Svnifiiy
Sold by AH Crbcersand Storekeepers
—
w
W*i
ggg.
DfXSON&SONS
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY.
DIXSON7& SONS’ CONQUEROR
not manufactures MOB®
THAN ANY OTHER, but cONSIJ
BULK'OFJTHE AMERICAN U o4 * 0
into New South Wales, and hence
of their brands.
CONQUEROR, greater sale than any
f 0&
Australia.
YANKEE DOODLE, SIR RODGER,
gold leaf.
DIXSON’S CUT RUBY, OR®* 1 * 1
CIGARETTES, DIXSON'S No 1 j^l
10,000 per hour, the choicest
and Paris rice tissue. Full sisj '
retailers at 3d. per packet o f 10
IvdOHiTIEZ’S!
NEW ZEAIAND
HERBAL REMEDIES.
TESTIMONIALS
From the Soudan Contingent Hospita
Corps; also from eminent Doctors and
Students, from Sydney Hospital.
1
MONK’S
Pile mixture.
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Ask for it and take no substitute,
is an invaluable cure. See testimonials.
IMIOISriEZ’S
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhoee Mixture
A positive cr re. Sold by all Chemists.
2s. 6d. per bott e.
UVEOZSTIK^S
NEURALGIA MIXTURE,
2a. 6d. per bottle,
(Sole Agents:
MATHEY, NATHAN & CO.,
201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
AND
44 Little Collins treet East/Melbourne.
MINING EXCHANGE HOTEL,
GYMPIB, QUEENSLAND.
The Centrai Hotel. Private Sitting Room.
Rendezvous for all parties engaged in mining
business.
H. G. BAILES, Proprietor.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
FIRST-CLASS Accommodation for Commer-
cial Gentlemen and Families. Private sitting
rooms without extra charge. Plunge and Shower
Bath. Billiards (Alcock’s). First-class chef.
Charges strictly moderate. Wines and spirits oi
the best brands, Man meets every steamer,
HANRAN, Junr., Proprietor.
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
Contracting Carriers,
FORWARDING AGENTS.
Head Office! Townsville, N, Queensland,
G. S CURTIS,
Auctioneer & Real Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
MR. BOLTON (of the firm of Lowry ani
Bolton) wishes to inform the numeron
friends of the Firm and the travelling public tha
he has gone to Mount Morgan to take charge o
the SUNBURST HOTEL, which will hencefortl
be carried on under his personal supervision
Sunburst Hotel, Mount Morgan, centrally situated
and facing the celebrated Mountain. Persons visit
ing the celebrated Mountain will find every comf or
and convenience to greet them on their arrival
BILLIARD TABLE AND PIANO ON THI
PREMISES, also STABLING for the aocommoda
tlon of Thirty Horses, and a good PADDOCI
within five minutes’ walk of the Hotel. Coache
DAILY FROM AND TO ROCKHAMPTON.
Note the Address—
MICHAEL BOLTON
(Of the Firm of Lowry & Bolton),
SUNBURST HOTEL
MOUNT MORGAN.
HE
REMINGTON TYPE-WRITE]
8a»e» labour, itationerp, and time, writing mnoh taifa
man expert pen-men, and ccmdenilng matter to leu the
one-naif the (pace occupied bp pen writing. Beantlfi
“”?*«• he taken In the ninal manner in the letter-pre*
told wholesale and retail bp the eole agent*,
IMRAY ft OCV
410 Kent-street.
c
.'A«b
HAHUFACTURERS
* IMPORTERS OF '
HATS CAPS &
438 CEo'rCeJt
&YDNEY %
i/
%
4
GRAND
HOl&
BUNDABB rG '
Under New MAffAfl® 5 ®
FINEST SAMPLE BOOM A*
PLUNGE AND, SHOW® 11 ®
t, raft {o r
Good Stabling, and Loose Boxes
DRAWING-ROOM ®° R jjJ
- . ef
Having engaged a # Ifil
to cater for the nublic in a » rB
i,
✓
ALF. P. TBOM^,
RUSTON PROCTOR
PORTABLE ENGINE®, „ , {i
traction
“TRIUMPH" THRASHING
Simon’s Roller System or
Sole Age» tfl !
E. 0. ELLIOTT ® {pf i
54T KENT STKB® T
THE GREAT NORTo^>***:
Charlotte-place and
K. HAK c>
1 DO
VINES, SPIRITS, and ® A kw.
Carriage I
free by Rail or {oeß *» ij j
you please from the list of Jo «. *
Robertson’s, Walker or
T^urvw?lla'Sl Hbamrnnlr A.n(i BUfK® r*
DunvUle's Shamrook and Burke
Brian Boru Whisky
Hennessy’s * Cognac
Square Gin »
Jamaica Rum
Red Heart do. .. •• ** ''m
Flask* Brandy and Whiskies -j B j». <*
h Ales and Stout, best br a °“ a iid«
English Ales and Stout, best ora # i
Port Wine for connoisseurs and
Port Wint and Sherry from
Port wtnt ana Hlierry irom . 010 sw o -•ftftf' , 'M
Best brands Whisky or Brandy tro $ A®
ja nAHE ALSO A T iK.
'.A
Superior j
attention afforded to Visitors * r °^err lo J?tfi» r !*,'t Vy?
rooms are conducted under thesuVjj be » *
late of Wellington (N.Z.), which TW V
Wellington
Guests will receive every atten
Wines, Spirits, and Beers alway»
papers kept on file. ”
rTyrjNIHOVI/M JQ
S
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENCINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE
STOCKS
rH ALL
NEWESTDESI cnS
highest f^ isH
LOWEST COS] 1
4
h«'L
if
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS, L*
ESTIMATED
ROBERT COOPERjf
OLE Aj|
Sydney:
111. Pin STREET.
tti
K# C
sfl"


The Bulletin
Vol. 8-No. 402.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1887.
Ur’oe., od.
Learning to Speak.
GRANNY PARKES: “NOW THEN, JIMMY, SHOW THE GENTLEMEN HOW YOU CAN SAY ‘I WITHDRAW MY RULING.’"
JIMMY YOUNG: “DON’T WANT TO.”
GRANNY PARKES: “YES, BUT YOU’LL SAY IT TO PLEASE GHANNY, WON’T YOU?"
JIMMY YOUNG: "SHANT!”
GRANNY PARKES (gently but firmly): “YES, BUT GRANNY SAYS YOU MUSI !" (He does.)


“THE BULLETIN”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER Co.
Limited.)
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only).
Per Annum £1 Os. Od.
Ifalf-yearly ... 0 12s. Od.
Quarterly 0 6s. 6d.
Cheques Drafts, tic., and all Business Communications to be
addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. V. Archibald
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One-pound
Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you can have The
Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in the
hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to interfere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1887.
“The Cursed. Drink”—Again!
The New South Wales drunkard has a hare
time of it. His hide has been abraded, hi
flesh contused, and his gentler susceptibili
ties excoriated by the remorseless Commis
sioners who recently gouged their way into
the secrets of his inner nature and dropped a
plummet into the dim and dismal depths o
his Plutonian soul. But the Commission
did not get very much by way of trophy
Antres vast and deserts wide met, or rather
refused to meet it on every hand, and it hac
to retire with aome gorgeous cloudland sun
set generalities which fit all over without
touching anywhere in particular. One thing
however, seemed moderately conclusive
viz., the young Australian can drink like his
forefathers. This is a severe blow, espe
daily to the Sydney evening papers, for, ac-
cording to the old theory, all the drunken-
ness was confined to the imported article,
and all the salacity to the locally-raised pro
duct. The “drunks” column was wont to reac
—“Jeames MacSwankey, Scotch; Michael
Mulqtxeeny, Irish ; William Grtjbbins,
English ; and the “ frightful and revolting
outrage ” column was specially devoted to
the alleged purely Aust»-d .an vice of force-
ful violation. Perhaps the increase in
drunkenness may be accounted for by the
fact that the “ revolting outrage ” is at pre-
sent in disfavour, and the allegations of hys-
terical girls suffering from impudicious
neurosis are received with derision by the
authorities who too often of late have been
hocussed into “ getting up ” bogus cases
which have melted into something less than
thin air before the crucial test of cold and
dispassionate investigation. So the youth-
ful Australian has been obliged to nurse the
faults of his fathers and make the most of
the time-honoured vices of the mead-swill-
ing followers of Odin and Thor.
* * *
It is just possible that the increase in
drunkenness in Australia in general, and in
New South Wales in particular, may be partly
due to climatic influence. The fervour of
southern summers, and the wretched quality
and character of all beverages not alco-
holic, are probably greater sinners than
the unthinking drinker who accelerates his
end by drinking fusel-oil. The increase in
drunkenness in Australia is also undoubtedly
due in part to the fiscal policy of some of
the colonies, and notably that of New South
Wales. In the latter colony taxation of an
excessive character is levied upon spirits and
colonial beer, and no attempt is made to
develope the local wine industry, although it
is universally admitted that wine-drinking
countries are singularly free from drunken-
ness, particularly from the grosser forms so
familiar to all who bear the honoured name
of Briton. In the sale of fiery stimulants
in a fiery clime, publicans, in their endeavour
to compete against one another and in an
attempt to dispense the same quantity of
liver-searing chemicals at the old price,
adulterate, to an incredible extent, vile stuff
already over-charged with poison even at
the best of times.
• * *
Curiously enough, no one seems to recog-
nise the fact that drinking habits, like horse-
racing or gambling, volunteering, or pitch-
and-toss, are simply a desperate effort on the
part of a great number to raise by artificial
stimulus the tone of life. Beyond an
occasional glimpse of the Governor, or the
still more occasional excitement of a hanging
—very seldom four at a time—what is there
worth living for in Sydney to the average
citizen thereof ? True, the Sydney people
have Parkes and the pedestal that has been
yearning for years for the Queen’s “ statchu,”
and a “glorious system of Freetrade,” but
somehow there appears to be a craving for
something beyond and transcending these
ponderous blessings—in disguise, certainly.
Man has divorced himself from Nature. We
are all of us leading more or less arti-
ficial lives, and as a natural conse-
quence we thirst for artificial stimulants.
Fools express surprise that sensationalism
should draw better at the average theatre
than the legitimate drama. Why should it
not ? Modem civilisation is a melodrama.
We are satiated with the leaden-hued misery
of life, its dull, dreary round of dust and
drudgery, its somnolent freetrade news-
papers with their Sahara-desert columns of
fiscal drivel and society small-talk; the
doings of Pump Court pall with their insipid
vapidness, and we long for a murder to re-
awaken our interest in existence. Our
nerves require bracing with the blood-curd-
Itng details of a stupendous outrage# sugar-
coated according to taste with the minutest
details. We should like to snatch a fearful
pleasure from a holocaust if we coul i get it.
We smack our lips with unction over a
terrible shipwreck, and we revel in an ac
count of a fricasseed opera-house. Lacking
all these stimulants, we go to the theatre and
maunder over something idiotic written in
gore with the point of a carving knife
on the skin of a human heart. Some
of us do not go to the theatre. Some
of us go to the pub. round the tabooed corner
and—get drunk. Each according to the
variety and extent of his sufferings and the
strength and vigour of his physique. Some
cannot get drunk because the physical
penalty is too great. Should these latter
ever succeed in getting drunk, the rest of the
longers after excitement get a snack of un-
usually luscious slaughter, or an outrage of
some description or other, which makes
them reasonably happy for awhile. Civilised
men and women are, after all, too often ghouls
herded together in gigantic charnel-houses
which they euphemistically term cities, and
their principal pabulum is garbage.
* * *
There is in this age of progressive ration-
alism a tendency to refer everything to
natural causes, but we are still far, far away
from that time when people will look upon
all questions of a social character from an
absolutely cold and scientific standpoint with
their eyeballs stripped of the epidermis of
sentiment, and their attitude unbiassed by
sympathy with accuser or accused. The
habit of challenging all mental phenomena
for a material cause is not the habit of the
thought of to-day, but it may be the habit
of the thought of to-morrow. And the
medical man is the forerunner and apostle of
the doctrine of necessity. During the re-
cent sittings of the Sydney Drink Commis-
sion the empiricism of sentiment and the
philosophy of the scientist came slightly into
collision. Gaol and Hospital rubbed shoul-
ders, and the medico and the magistrate
were each in turn put forward as the Orlando
to take a fall out of this Charles among
wrestlers —Drink. There was evinced .a de-
cided tendency to urge the Government to
increase the restrictive character of the law
regulating the traffic in fermented liquors ;
as if people could be made virtuous by Act
of Parliament, and as if it were desirable
that they should, provided this particular
brand of Parliamentary righteousness by the
grace of molly-coddle was as efficacious in
the production of abhorrence to forbidden
naughtiness as it certainly would be in the
production of weaklings and nincompoops—
for man has a fatal facility in adjusting him-
self to his environment. There was also
a strongly-marked tendency to recog-
nise drinking habits as a question for
the doctor rather than for the policeman—
as a disease rather than a crime. Dr.
Mackellar, as we should have expected
him to do, supported the idea of an institu-
tion, established by the State, for the treat-
ment of habitual drunkards on somewhat
the same lines as lunatic asylums, and that
apart from the benefit to the individual, he
considered it would be cheaper for the State
to establish such retreats on a voluntary as
well as on a compulsory principle. He
objected, however, to calling them reforma-
tories or asylums, and regarded them purely
in the light of hospitals as dealing with
diseases and not crimes. Though in connec-
tion with this matter of insanity and drunken
ness we should like, in passing, to call the
Doctor’s attention to the fact that indulgence
in alcohol is as often a symptom as a cause of
some form of neurosis. Bishop Barry also
spoke in favour of the asylum, and instanced
the English “ Dalrymple’s Act ” which
enables people to be incarcerated in an
asylum by their own consent, which, when
once given, cannot be withdrawn. Bishop
Barry also stated that he could see no
reason why the habitual drunkard should be
treated differently from persons suffering
from temporary insanity—their condition
being analogous. Mr. Hunt, who has had
practical experience as an hotel proprietor,
was of opinion that if the magistrates had
power to commit drunkards to an inebriate
asylum, one in eight, or one in ten, might
be saved, as none are reclaimed under the
present system of sending them to gaol.
Another witness thought that if he himself
were an habitual drunkard he would most
decidedly prefer being sent to a hospital or
an asylum than to a police lock-up, though
this speaker became absurdly illogical, and
admirably exemplified the effect on the mind
of living for a considerable term of years in
a colony governed by outworn convict laws,
when he declared that he did not consider
the punishment in gaol in New South Wales
sufficiently severe—the reasonable reductio
absurdum being that he would, in his model
hospital for inebriates, cause the treatment
to consist of drastic applications of the cat
every morning before breakfast and upon
every other convenient occasion afterwards.
The idea of sending a man to a hospital to
be cured of a mental disorder by being
treated as if he were detained in prison for
a criminal offence is truly original—at least
outside the Supreme Court. The main
point, illustrated by the foregoing, is, how-
ever, this—when men begin to recognise
that dipsomania, like kleptomania (when
the latter is practised by the wealthy or the
well-connected) is a species of lunacy, the
day cannot surely be so far distant when
colonial Supreme Court Judges will cease to
order floggings for unnatural offences —evi-
dence, by its very name in the charge-sheet,
of another form of mental instability.
* * *
But to return to the Drink Commission’s
repoit. Why should the Government take up
so philanthropic a position in relation to the
drunkard? Why all this Parliamentary
benevolence ? “Oh ! ” replies the fanatic
one-idealism of the teetotaller, “ because
his habits are hurtful to his health, to his
life, to the physical well-being of his progeny,
to the happiness of his wife and family.”
Bah ! If Government intends playing the
part of universal benefactor and family phy-
sician, why does it not interfere and prevent
a man sitting in front of a grindstone all day
sharpening cutlery, while his lungs are being
choked-up with impalpable dust ?—which,
by the way, causes him to drink “ con-
sumedly.” Why does not the Government
tear the painter from his white-lead and its
resultant paralysis, or the cotton-spinner
from out of the atmosphere in which he
breathes only fluff ? Why permit the medical
man to daily brave the possibilities of hemal
poisoning ? or the stonemason to fill up the
capillary passages of his breathing apparatus
with molecules of granite ? Or, coming
nearer home, why should Government allow
the po’irician-directed loan-office to endanger
the health or the reason of the hard-toiling
vanman or carter whose life is almost ground
out of him in frantic endeavours to pay prin-
cipal and interest at the rate of 130 per
cent, per annum upon a small sum advanced
on his horse and cart —hi 3 sole means of
livelihood ? Why should trades be called
noxious and men allowed to work at them if
the State is so tender of its fiscal charges ?
Pshaw ! This is the age of pretended pro-
gress in which Science allies itself with
Capital and Bank, on the specious plea
based on superficial necessariamsm that it is
useless to attempt to argue against the doc-
trine of the survival of the fittest, and they
plausibly assume that the fittest lie on the
loftiest lamination. If this is the acknow-
ledged basis of Society, as it is at pre-
sent constituted, why stop here ? Carry
out to its heartless end, O, Society ! your
theory of the survival of the fittest. Spread
state-endowed tables, let them groan laden
with decanters containing the choicest and
richest wines, poured out in all their purple
glory into golden flagons by beauteous and
bewitching Hebes, clad in the most sumptu-
ous of raiment, and inciting with luscious
and blood-tingling glances the weak, and the
vicious, and the crazy, to the work of intoxi-
cation and paralysis, lunacy and death.
Survival of the fittest! Let your brother—
as you boast he is in your moments of
Christianity and delirium—perish as Nature
or God intended ha should perish, and let
those strong enough to withstand temptation
suck up the fat and the fruit of the earth !
. . •
But unfortunately for theorists, the fittest
are not always the careful, canny, prosper-
ous, sober, mediocre bourgeoisie. The
fittest intellectually are sad disturbers of
logarithms. If they drink not, they oft do
worse. Coleridge and De Quince y sought
intellectual excitement in a narcotic drug.
They flew to opium. Burns, Tom Campbell,
Edgar Allan Poe, Australia’s Bendall,
that inspired mystery Clarence Mangan,
and many other brilliant spirits sought the
same kind of excitement in an alcoholic
stimulant. Even the bullock-driver in the
remote bush will work and slave six months
out of twelve for the sake of saving money
enough to enable him to forget the monotony
of his environment in a -spree. Perhaps
Burns strove to forget his poverty, or Poe
his failures in the delirium of drink. But it
may be that this so-called weakness is only
part and parcel of the peculiar temperaments
of these men. After urging the over-ten-
sioned brain to extraordinary accomplish-
ment a reaction necessarily follows. To sus-
tain that reaction and to continue the
intellectual dissipation beyond its period of
normal duration an alcoholic or other stimu-
lant becomes a necessity. It is useless to
bewail the fact that the stimulant slays. The
possession of extraordinary ability itself may,
from this standpoint, be regarded as a mis-
fortune : the sword wears out the sheath,
but the sheath must not complain. Of
course, dram-drinking accelerates the work
of ruin, which may, after all, be unavoidable.
As Gay aptly puts it, “ The fly that sips
treacle is lost in the sweets,” and so with the
toper. But, what then ?. It is just possible
that the names—some of them unquestion-
ably great ones—which we have above
quoted would never have beamed so brightly
from fame’s high firmament had their
wearers been the sons of Reohab. It is
just possible that they could never have sus-
tained the wear and tear of mental debau-
chery and consequent physical waste with-
out such stimulant. Perhaps, too, the very
craving was a part of their nature—they
were simply living up to the plenitude of
their life-powers.
* * *
There is no little inspiration in the wine-
cup. Half Poe’s literary work is saturated
with wine-fumes and wine-lees. Tempera
ments differ, and it is only repeating a com-
mon adage to remark that “ one man’s meat
is another man’s poison.” “Yes,” objects
the man who fljunts in his self-righteous
moral insolence a blue ribbon in his abste-
mious button-hole, “ but you must admit
there is a vast difference between the case
of the shanty sot, thirsting only for dull
oblivion, and that of the exquisitely-attuned,
highly-strung, intellectual debauchee. The
one seeks only a means of satisfying a
bestial propensity, a depraved taste, the
other an elixir of potency to recuperate ex-
hausted faculties and sustain abnormal men-
tal excitement.” The difference, however,
is one of degree only. Who shall say what
ecstatic pleasures peculiar to his kind are
unlocked even to the humblest votary of
Bacchus ? A man’s predilection for drink
is often inseparable from his peculiar organi-
sation, as a like predilection to other ex-
cesses is the intrinsic concomitant of other
organ sations. Why abuse the snake for
the possession of poison-fangs or the leopard
for being spotted ? The innocuous snake
strikes with equal energy, and its lack of a
deadly attribute is no fault or benevolence of
its own. To regret that a man is other than
Nature made him is illogical and unavailing.
A man is the sum of his ancestors acted
upon by a force outside his own volition—a
creature whose slightest act is directed and
inflected by transmitted impulse modulated
and modified by accordance or variance with
the extrinsic conditionings that go to make
up his environment. A mental habit or a
moral weakness is as much inherited as a
high shoulder or a halt in the gait.
* * *
Commenting in a leader on the report of
the Drink Commission, the Sydney D.T.
managed to evolve from the inner conscious-
ness of its folding-machine this atom of im-
perishable wisdom :
“ What makes the one sober and the other a
drunkard ? And when we ask this we often find
that the answer is that the men are constituted
differently in all respects. One has a power of
restraint, a firmness of moral fibre, a self-control
and self-direction which give him the mastery
of his own life, while the other is vacillating
in purpose, unsteady, helpless, and subservient
to his lower instead of his better impulses."
This is simple lunacy. According to the
above quotation, “ men are constituted
differently in all respects,” and yet the D.T.
gives only a list of certain supposititious moral
qualitits. Why not continue, “ One has a
coarse, animalistic nature which no drug can
conquer, no beer lap ia oblivion, while the
other is so delicately strung that a single
pipe of tobacco, a single glass of grog, in-
duces what Charles .Lamb terms ‘ those
uneasy sensations in head and stomach which
are so much worse to bear than any definite
pains and aches.’ One has the constitutional
vigour of the hippogriff, nerves of steel, and
thews of iron ; his muscles ara rock and his
stomach is leather, and he soaks it from
morn till night in fiery libations to Bacchus,
yet suffers not; the ocher is a man of nerves,
a bundle of sensibilities, a human iEolian
harp with a tempest of passion forever
sweeping the strings, and drink means to
him suicide.” Yet this man is the criminal.
The habitual soaker seldom commits any
excess, but if drinking is a crime per se, the
most flagrant offender—if we measure the
crime by the quantity of liquor imbibed—is
least harmful to society. A man commits a
crime while under the influence of drink,
not because he is “unsteady, helpless, and
subservient to his lower instead of his better
impulses,” but simply because the kind
Providence that watches over the editor of
the D.T. did not give him as much fat and
muscle as nerves.
* * *
Men will drink to the crack of doom, and
if they resist this weakness they imme-
diately cultivate another. They turn out
one devil and let furnished apartments to
seven, each one of whom is a dozen times
worse than the oiiginal imp. The revolt
against the humdrum dreariness of life, if it
takes not the form of a seeking after excite-
ment in alcoholic drink, drifts into the dubi-
ous by-ways and back-alleys of debauchery,
and finds its vent in morphia, opium, chloral,
and other nerve-shattering, diabolical abom-
inations, far more terribly ruinous in their
effects upon the constitution, a thousandfold
more harmful to posterity, more destructive
of will, increasedly progenitive of unenergetic
fatalism. The man who lives near to
Nature’s heart wants little in the way of drug
or dram beyond the soothing narcotic of
tobacco. But for those who live in cities, who
linger and cling to existence through years
of unvarying monotonous drudgery, whose
daily life is an apathetic struggle to keep the
lower lip above water, whose little span of
action is dictated by the stern voice of a re-
lentless stomach craving its diurnal dole;
for those who sweat and struggle, and strive
and starve, who work because they must;
for those who have to read the weaty, dreary
leaders in the Sydney D.T. or the S.M.H.,
drink is a necessity. It is drink or go mad !
Hence they drink. There is an excuse for
the tired pressman paid to write what he
knows to be lies. The average journalist
who belongs to the Good Templars must
have a conscience of adamant. The lawyer,
too, is excusable on similar grounds. When
he has, for the sake of living merely, to soil
his soul with the darkling stains that can


,„ h8 washed out in brandy, who could
him to be other than a tippler ?
The point, after all, comes back to this
wS we have no belief in the supernal
f® J the New South Wales or any other
Government to legislate drink „„t of the
Go \ we do think that Government
ilhV do much to legislate bad drink out of
S ®knd Men w.U drink, and if they do
k drink they will cultivate some more
n . .„ a habit Let the State accept the
situation : Men will drink or do something
in the frenzied endeavour to obtain an
ennivalent to alcohol as a mental excitant :
hpnce the Government can best seive the
“ .‘ e of morality by obviating as far as possi-
J}“ the need for police, magistrates, gaols,
Sams,hospitals,doctors,nurses and graves
for inebriates. The greater number of men
that die from the effects of drink, die not
bo much from the effects of drink as from the
effects of hud drink. Let the liquor-Inspector
become a power in the land, and let the
State encourage wine-drinking by encourag-
ing the wine industry, and the necessity for
asvlums will grow proportionately less. Let
the State as far as possible safeguard the
nerves and the stomach of the consumer by
seeing that a genuine article for consumption
is provided, and it will justly merit the
heart-felt blessings of all who are not woe-
wrung, washy fellows, and who, as Charles
Tomb Anacreontically puts it, ‘ ‘ must, at
some time, have felt the after operation of
a too generous cup.”
Freetrade “Arguments.”
THE Freetrade partisans in New Fouth Wales
have demonstrated that there is at least one
native industry which can flourish without the
aid of Protection— namely, the fabrication of
statements out of nothing in the shape of solid
truth, and the erection of imposing fabrics of
argument without any material save that supplied
by their own fertile imaginations. The audacious
courage and untiring energy displayed by the
political leaders who affect Cobdenism, in the
falsification of history, in the invention of fictional
conditions, and in drawing on the unknown future
for support for their cause, are mainly due to the
absence of a well-informed and honest Press. If
even a New Fouth Wales Freetrader knew that
any departure on his part from the facts of his-
tory, and any erroneous allegations as to the
actual and prospective outcome of lines of policy,
would be exposed in the editorial columns of the
papers which print his enunciations, no doubt he
would be less sparing of truth and probability.
But experience teaches him that, in the dailies of
Sydney at all events, he will be aided and abetted
in the promulgation of any doctrines whic£ favour
the commercial theory ; and hence he habitually
plunges without compunction into unfounded
assertion, brazen perversion, and the wildest of
wild conjecture. The alacrity with which the
Freetrade newspapers adopt the errors of state-
ment aid absurd deductions of the Freetrade
politicians is oftenest simply matter for amuse-
ment—too ludicrous to engage the serious attention
of journal! s ts not concerned in propping up the crum-
bling edifice of Cobdenism-and here again is found
a reason for the phenomena of systematised pre-
varication presented so frequently and with ever-
increasing effrontery by the exponents of Calico-
jEMMY-ism. Under a laissez faire method of
treatment the manufacture of ingenious means of
deceiving the people certainly makes good pro-
gress, however ordinary industrial enterprise
languishes.
* * *
Mr. B. R. Wise, Attorney-General and Presi-
dent of the N.S.W. Freetrade Association, is
facile princeps in the art of promulgating specious
yarns whose basis of truth is represented by zero.
His letter to the Association the other day is a
fair sample of his skill in this direction, though
it shows a progressive tendency to politically
economise the truth that should eventuate in a
speedy collapse of this Bystem of fiscal warfare.
Mr. Wise begins by making the wholly unwar
ranted assertion that in the last N.S.W. Assembly
there were between 70 and 80 Protectionists,
while in the present House there are barely 40.
The facts are, as we have already pointed out,
that in the last Parliament there were not a score
of pronounced Protectionists, including even
Abigail and Clarke and Roberts and Garrett
and Sutherland, the recreant Protectionists
who are now members of the soi-disant
Freetrade Ministry; as against, in the current
Parliament, no fewer than 43 members pledged
right out to support a policy inimical to that
of Parkes and Wise and the Calico Jimmies.
Having perpetrated this direct untruth touching
a matter of yesterday and to-day in his own colony,
Wise proceeds in his letter to deal in unfounded
assertion and suggestio falsiintesvectot eventsand
■eventualities more remote both as to time and place.
This is the way in which he raves
The progress of Freetrade abroad ought also to afford us
■great encouragement. The liberal and enlightened countries
of Europe hold more firmly than before to the policy of
fiscal freedom. Switzerland, Holland, Sweden and Nor-
way, and that mother of freedom among nations, the United
'Kingdom, show no sign of wavering in their fidelity to the
principles of justice and equality. While even m the war-
>ridden countries, around which protective tariffs have been
■raised for military purposes, signs are not wanting that the
sufferings these create will soon become intolerable. War
■and tariffs,’ as Mr. Bright has lately said, ' are the two great
enemies of mankind.’ Their intimate association is plainly
Visible in recent European history. Until 1874 there was a
large and steady progress towards Freetrade upon the part of
every continental nation. The example o mg an a
■proved contagious, and tariffs weie being reduced even in
the most despotic States. The fever of militarism which fol-
lowed the Franco-Prussian war, and the necessity imposed
on the Eurcpsan countries of maintaining gigantic arma-
ments has caultd again rts rt to be made to the Custom
House; but it is an undeniable fact, visible to anyone who
chooses to investigate, that the growth of Pioteetion in
Europe, of which we often hear in New South Wales, has
been the direct result of a despotic and a military hostility,
and is a distinct reversal of the policy previously followed in
Europe from the years 1850 to 1875. It is almost certain that
in the crash of the first great war these childish barriers
against human intercourse will tumble to the ground."
* * *
What gorgeously circumstantial bunkum! The
idea that Holland and Sweden have ever shown
any signs of abandoning a Protectionist policy
must surely have originated in ignorance. And
the scarcely lobs preposterous statement that
Britain shows no Bign of wavering in its fidelity to
Freetrade is also evidence of crass ignorance—or
wilful blindness. As a matter of fact, beyond all
controversy, the British people are wavering.
Twenty years ago the man who argued in favour
of Protection in England was looked upon with
mingled pity and contempt. He was regarded as
in the same case as searchers for the philosopher's
stone, believers in Cock-lane ghosts, and such-like
monomanias. To-day the Fair Trade League is
a power in the land, and the Cobdenists are driven
to their wits’ ends to invent arguments subversive
of the growing creed of Protection. But the
greatest of all the nonsense this gtnius has
given us is his prophecy to the effect that in the
crash of the first great war the barriers of Protec-
tion will tumble to the ground. Germany will
conquer France or vice versa, but that the victor
will be able to hold the conquered country is in-
credible. If it dees not, obviously the de-
sire and determination of each to protect
its industries against the competition of the
other would be more marked than at pre-
sent. If the conquering power were cap-
able of holding the vanquished nation in sub-
jection it is equally plain that the extension of
territory would simply mean an enlargement of
the customs cordon, and that the increased Ger-
many or increased France would indulge with
renewed energy In the business of combating the
industrial energies of other nations. For it is
just as bad for a community to be crushed out by
looms as by bayonets, by cheap labour as by hordes
of invaders; and if the statesmen of the conquering
Germany or France fail to perceive this, they will
belie the whole tenor of their national genius.
* * *
Having indulged himself in a walk ever the
position in Europe, Wise crosses the Atlantic and
there he perceives that Protection and war go
hand in hand. The prospective war in Europe is
to abolish protection, but protection in America
is the immediate outcome of war—so this
authority has the effrontery to proclaim lie
makes the curious statement that the Protective
tariff of the United States owes its existence to
the “exigencies of the Civil war” in that
country ; and the S.M. Herald backs up this
falsification of history in a leading article which
is brimful of misstatement and erroneous infer-
ence. Mr. Wise and the Herald writer should
learn that the existing tariff in Amefica is one of
the chief triumphs of the civil war. The very
first Customs Act passed by the American Con-
gress, sitting at Philadelphia in 1780, set forth in
its preamble that the dues were imposed “ for the
encouragement and protection of manufactures.
In 1816 a still more protective tariff was
adopted. In 1824 the Protectionists went a step
further, and the duties on imports were increased
until the nigger-owners of the Southern States,
who were interested simply in growing cotton
with slave labour and supplying themselves with
European manufactures on cheap principles, re-
belled and refused to respect the Federal
Custom-house. But the Federal Custom-
house was maintained then and thereafter ; and
despite the opposition of the Southern and some
of the Western States, the policy of Protection
flourished and gradually came to assume a position
of absolute supremacy. The argument that the-
existing duties were imposed for the purpose of
raising revenue to meet the war engagements is a
fresh departure in Freetrade tactic 3. Heretofore all
authorities of the Cobdenist school have contended
that a duty on imports was useless in a revenue
point of view without a countervailing duty on
home production. To put 14s. a gallon on im-
ported spirits, for instance, would not be to aug-
ment the revenue unless a corresponding duty
were imposed on domestic distillation. But W ise
and his friend of the Herald ignore all this, and
argue that a tariff wholly in favour of the home
manufacturer was intentionally enforced with the
object of raising money by taxing competition!
Surely these gentry had better learn the alphabet
of political economy and finance before going in
for inventing history and deducing arguments
therefrom,
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Allesbury’s Sentence.
The Stewards of that most autocratic and aristo-
cratic club on earth —the English Jockey Club
have celebrated Jubilee year by warning a real
live Marquis off the turf. As in Australia, so
doubtless in England, this unique incident is pro-
lit ft* »
the integrity of a noble body which makes no dis
tinct ion the transgressions of peer and
commoner! &c. It enables the Argus, for in-
stance to cast its hundred eyes heavenward, and
mention that “ the decision is the more valuable
because it has been given by men tf the
own order.” Now, we fancy that when the true
of this scandal (told by a reliable paper like
the Referee) comes to hand, it will be found that
the Tcckey Club’s decision was grossly unjust
SLed by their ordinary standard of turf
morality. In the first place, they called upon the
Marquis of Ailesbury to explain the suspicious
■mnnina of a horse that won its race, after making
a dead heat with something else. Later on it
occurred to them that even a dooks
and nrinces cannot convict anyone of roping
an antoal which comes in first. So the virtuous
s‘ewards ream ed baoK for an excuse, ai.d eatufii d
i hem selves that * there had been unfair mnn.ng
wfth the Marquis's horses on previous cccasuns.
Briefly, they now decided to punish the offender
for crimes they had formerly winked at. By this
self-damning statement the Jockey Club made
it clear enough that) they have dropped
upon their noble brother for certain private
reasons. The Marquis of Ailesbury is not
as other marquises are. His indiscreet marriage
with Dolly Tester, a music-hall maiden, might
be overlooked, seeing that other hereditary legis-
lators have chosen other Dollies and Totties,
and, by so doing, have rather invigorated their sap-
less family trees. But Ailesbury s extravagant
vulgarity of dress and manner—his penchant for
cutting coarse jokes and swearing filthy oaths in
the congenial society of “dreadful” people—has
given great offence to our old nobility. His con-
stant behaviour on a race course was calculated
to bring contempt upon the system which allows
such a man to assist in making Old England’s
laws. Therefore the Jockey Club "warned off"
the Marquis of Ailesbury because he is of their
own order, and not in spite of that fact, as they
would wish the admiring crowd to believe. As a
horse-owner, this particular young fellow is, pro-
bably, quite as honest as most other noblemen. It
is not asserted that he has taken lessons in
“stacking” and dealing cards from the bottom
of the pack, like certain members of the august
body who pronounced his doom. Not at all. It
the Marquis of ailesbury had been a courtly
trickster, cultivating the caste of Vere de Verb,
he might have lived in the odour of royal patron-
age and Jockey Cub and died with all the tottering
old roues of that august body weeping round his
bed. We may expect to And it leak out that his
disgrace was a “ cooked” affair, secretly ordered
by the Prince of Wales.
“ Cheering News from the N.S.W.
Treasury.”
We always like to see a man labour diligently to
prove himself a velvet-pile, double-sewn, bevel-
edged ass. He always takes such pains over the
job, when all the while anyone who is watching
him can tell right away what the result of his
arduous labours will he. It was on account of
such considerations that we felt a perceptible acces*
sion of joy when perusing the Sydaey D.T. article
under the above caption. For with revenue
figures gloomier than a Freetrade Association’s
balance-sheet before him, the gifted scribe laid
himself out to prove that prosperity surrounded
New South Wales as with a garment. The main
cause of his counteifeit joy was that the New
South Wales revenue for the September quarter
of this year was £204,000 greater than for the
same quarter of 1886. And as he was dealing with
one quarter only, it was in a sense appropriate that
he should confine himself to one quarter of the truth,
t he other three-quarters are discerned in the fact
that pastoral occupation revenue accounts for
£184,000 of this increase (mainly owing to the
payment of arrears from 1885-6) and auction sales
of public lands for £32,000 more. These two
together amount to £216,000, so that, removing
these items from the calculation, the whole of the
remaining items Bhow a net decrease of £ IS,OOO as
compatea with the same period of last year ITo
arrive at any reasonable estimate of the colony’s
progress, these items of pastoral rents and auction
sales must be deducted, for the greater part of the
pastoral revenue does not belong to this
year at all, and the land auctioned sim-
ply represents so much of the national
capital parted with and gone for ever.
And, moreover, it must be remembered that the
ad valorem and Jennings specific duties have
done their last service to the State. Henceforth
the “ Cocky” Burns tariff will rule the Customs
and the revenue will suffer accordingly. Further
it will be observed that the total revenue for the
year ending the 30th of September was only
£8,100,000, so that if the gifted financier who now
bosses the Treasury wants to Bee his estimate
of £9,100,000 realised he will have to rake in
£1,000,000 more than the average quarter’s in-
come during the next three months ! And this is
only one-half of the story ; the other half is that
the expenditure is going up past the record of all
previous years. The Government has had to sup-
port an army of unemployed labourers and
a host of unemployed aristocratic loafers,
whose good fortune it is to have a relative in the
'Ouse. What the expenditure is, or at what rate,
even the Treasurer himself can't tell, for his
colleagues spend thousands without consulting
him, the Cabinet, or the country, and under pre-
sent circs, it is reasonably certain that in place of
a surplus of £900,000, there will, at the end of the
year, in spite of the received arrears of pastoral
rent, be very nearly £1,000,000 more to be added
on to the existing deficit of £2,500,000. With a
deficit of £3,500,000 at the end of the present
year, Freetrade will die suddenly without waiting
or a dote of “ Rough on Rats ”to be administered
by deceived and deluded electors.
♦
A Promising Young Man.
The Sydney D.T. sits on its old familiar rail in
discussing the system by which Attorney-General
Wise receives a large salary from the New South
Wales Treasury, and at the same time at-
tempts to draw separate fees for perform-
ing the separate items of his duty. The
duties of that promising young man are some-
what multifarious, and apparently—from the way
he performs them—there is a good deal of money
attached. In the first place he has to de-
cide whether any particular suit brought
against the Crown is to be defended, and
having done so he virtually appoints himself
to conduct it—that is to say his subordinate
officer appoints him —and draws a fee for doing
so, in addition to his salary, which apparently is
paid him for his labours in advising the Govern-
ment to give him the said job with the
fee appended thereto. When this branch
of business is dull he amuses himself
by glancing through the evidence in rail-
way accident inquiries at which he was not
present, and then he writes a minute in a rapid,
flowing hand to the effect that the testimony is
all rubbish, and the jury are asses, and the
Government —which pays him his screw and
allows him special fees on top of it—is not in any
way to blame for anything that has happened, blit
that the responsibility rests on somebody who is
dead, and who consequently can't defend himself.
A little thirg like thatamuses Mr. Wise, but even
the DT. is forced to admit that the arrange-
ment is hardly satisfactory in the fullest
sense of the term. According to the Con-
stitution Act, any member of Parliament
who accepts money for services rendered to the
Crown, except on the special vote of the Assem-
bly thereby forfeits his seat, and even now the
Elections and Qualifications Committee are debat-
ing whether the premising young man fresh from
Europe should not be cast out. According to all
law and equity Mr. Wise cannot retain his salary
and his piokings as well, but he entered a heroic
de'etce of the practice by which his salaried posi
lion comes in so handily as an aid to outside em-
ployment. and on the strength of tins i he IXI.
alludes to him as a “ chivalrous individual who
sacrificed hia professional career for the sake of
hia country, and urges that, because he is a pro-
mising young man; the law should be strained to
enable him to retain hia seat. For our own part
we think one promising young man could be very
well spared from the New South Wales Legigi
lature. It is already full of them, while
performing young men are very scarce, and since
the promising Wise has taken to obtaining public
money on side issues by way of fulfilling the
public expectations regarding him, it is tune tor
him to go out on his ear, the D T. notwithstand-
ing. Either he must be content with nis ample
salary of £ISOO per annum, added to the results
of his not inconsiderable private practice, or he
must go back into the rues of the legal profession
and skirmish for a livelihood by defending the
gentleman who has shed the blood of his
missus. According to old-established custom
he is permitted to draw his salary and pay another
man out of the public treasury to do a great por-
tion of his work, but when he endeavours to draw
his salary and then pay himself to do his work in
addition, it is too much to b 8 endured. This the
D. T. carefully points out, but it still urges that
Mr. Wise, as a promising young man, should be
forgiven. Bless all such promising young men.
♦
Referring to the recent libel action brought by
Mr. Julian Thomas (“The Vagabond”), the
Wesleyan Spectator says:—“While we owe
muqh to the excellent barristers who were en-
gaged on our side, we owe more to Him who
answereth prayer, and who, we are persuaded,
undertook our cause.” Probably no other sen-
tence in the whole range of literature contains
such an admixture of blasphemy and cant. The
reverend dunderhead who penned it failed to
grasp the obvious corollary to his proposition—if
the verdict of one farthing was directly due to
the interposition of Divine Providence, surely the
Almighty would have gone one better, and made
the jury declare absolutely in favour of the de-
fendants. Anyhow, it seems to us that the pious
pro) trie tors had little faith in Him to whom they
refer with such insolent familiarity, or they
would scarcely have gone to the enormous ex-
pense of retaining Dr. Madden and Mr. Hodges.
+.
From Sydney Daily Telegraph :
“ News has been received of the death of Rev. Dr. Justus
BItAINERP Vinton, of the Karen mission, Rangoon,
Burma, where he had laboured since 1861. His death was
doubtless hastened by his services in the recent war in
Burma, when he raised and equipped a force of Christians,
and materially assisted the British forces in their work of
pacification."
Good, kind, pious old assassin 1 Holy old butcher!
Blood-stained saint, gone to Heaven with a hand-
ful of gory scalps to show at the Golden Gate I
Virtuous and choice pirate, and apostle in a coat
of mail with an iron tail! Chosen and thrice-
blessed shooter of the heathen, apprentice brigand,
slaughterman undefiled, reverend and elect Thug,
and bomb-proof spreader of the Gospel generally,
thou art departed, and this mortal sphere will
know thee no more. Let us weep !
+
It seems now to be pretty plain that Judge
Matthew Henry Stephen, of New South Wales,
was born considerably after his time, and that,
though fate has kindly allotted to him the heredi-
tarily congenial climate of Botany Bay, the era in
which he should properly have exercised judicial
functions was that which gave to the world all the
charming stories we hear of Norfolk Island trials.
The other day Judge Stephen aforesaid sentenced
a man to two floggings of 25 lashes each —the
second lashing to be given II days after the first.
Should the first flogging have been “properly”
laid on, the chances are that this lacerated wretch
will be taken straight fre m the prison-hospital to
the triangle. It has been said that Judges order
solitary confinement because they don’t know
what it means, and perhaps it has never struck
Mr. Justice Stephen that after a man’s back has
been skinned with the lash it takes more than
a fortnight to get] it healed again. But if,
being aware of 1 his simple physiological fact,'
Judge Stephen deliberately ordered the second
flogging to take place before the mangled body
was healed, we can only conclude—well, a lot of
things. The judicial Stephens have all been odd
in their way. Ihe peculiarity of Sir Alfred
Stephen was, as the world knows, his excessive
amiability and his absurd soft-heartedness in the
matter of carrying out sentences of death. Then
there was Justice James Wilrerforce Stephen,
of Victoria, who was just the opposite of old
Alfred Stephen. He looked like a well-bred
old maid, and he was called Wilberforce, after
a man who loved his fellow-map, and showed him
self all through a big-hearted philanthropist, ard
J. W. S.’s father get a knighthood for his efforts
in the anti-slavery cause. J. W. affected to imi-
tate a man with a bigger brain, Justice Fellows.
On one occasion a well-known Sandhuratman e amed
Trevarrow (by the way they somehow or otlnr
never seem to flog well known men in N.S.W.)
was convicted before Fellows of offences against
children, and his Honor sentenced him to the full
penalty allowed by the Act—ten years' imprison-
ment and three floggings of 50 lashes each. Shortly
afterwards a semi-idiot was convicted before
Stephen of a mitigated offence of the same kind.
The governor of the gaol told the judge that the
prisoner was half-idiotic, and Stephen replied
that he believed every man who committed such
offences was suffering more or less from mem al
disease, but J. W. was thinking of Fellows and
Trevarrow, and lo and behold! he sentenced
this wretched idiot to ten years’ hard labour and
three floggings of 50 lasnes each I Has Mr.
Matthew Henry Stephen ever seen a man
flogged in gaol ? If he has not, Be might ask his
relative, Frank Stephen, the Melbourne at-
torney, what it’s like. One day Frank
and his son-ia-law, Dr. Madden, the barrister,
went to Melbourne gaol to see the first man
flogged under Wrixon’s Act for ihe puniehmect
of offences against women and children. Well,
after the first half-dozen strikes had been ad-
ministered on Green alias O Toole, a man was
carried out of the yard. It wasn’t Green, other-
wise O'Toole, but one Frank Stephen, an
attorney. It wss only by the administration of a
s;iff dose of brandy that Frank was brought
round, and from that day to thi» you musn’c tala
about flogging in his presence. And yet Frank
is not a chicken-hearted man. Ex-J ustice Moles-
worth, of Victoria, didn’t often order floggings,
but on one occasion he directed an old man, con-
victed of a certain offence, to receive chastise-
ment in a way which would have been more ap-
propriate had he been half a century younger.
That sentence stands unique in the prison records
of Victoria.
+
The S. M. Herald says of a certain Sydney
fern ale refuge that it is ' ‘ unsectarian in charac
ter. " The suggested idea of worn-out ladies of
the pavement quarrelling over dogma is delight
frdly modern-Cnristian and Heraldic. It is as
funny as the idea of fat bourgeois humbugs who
I nalt-a-dozen Hints, have paid ineir crcd tors half •
j a-crown in the £, becoming deacons aid elders,
I an! taking front s°ats in the churches and chapeis,


and being respected by all who don’t know ’em in
business. There is one pre-eminently godly person -
age, for instance, who looks like a bull-pup that
had got fat in Paradise by snapping up scraps of
turtle chucked to him during unnumbered ages
while he loafed to slow music round the steps of
the saints' white thrones. That is the type of
man who, in “this so-called 19th century,” ren-
ders necessary a statement to the effect that one
lot of alleged Christians won’t boot a woman out
into the street with her illegitimate child because
she hasn’t had some water thrown over her head
by another lot of alleged Christians.
4—
The election of Mr. M. H. Davies as Speaker of
the Victorian Assembly was carried through in a
way calculated to display the dignity of Austra-
lian political life. Before his candidature was
publicly announced, honourable members stated
that Mr. Peter Lalor retired under “ pressure,”
and that Mr. Davies had, in a Pickwickian sense,
bought the billet. Io was tacitly admitted by the
Ministry that their nominee’s claims to the
Speakership were based on the almighty dollar,
pure and simple. His parliamentary career had
been colourless and brief. His only services to
the community consisted in the fact that he had
bought up large tracts of land at a low figure and
waited for other men's enterprise to make the
land valuable. That Mr. Davies is president of
the Y.M C.A. was hardly advanced as a satisfac-
tory reason for selecting him to preside, over a
Legislative Assembly, for there are limits to
ministerial assurance. But it was openly sug-
gested that their wealthy protfge would be in a
position to “entertain” nonourable members at
Speaker’s dinners, and therein lay the secret of
his nomination. If this vulgar job had been per-
petrated in an obtrusive way—if the House had
decently responded to this appeal to legislative
stomachs —it might have been forgotten, like
many other jobs of a more directly injurious
nature. As it was the Speaker question became
a public scandal. The Coalition Ministry,. with
all its working majority, succeeded in squeezing in
Davies by one miserable vote. Upon which, the
minority upheld the dignity of the Chair by jeer-
ing at the man who had just been elected to sit
on it.
While Melville, O’Sullivan, and Co. are bang-
ing the Protection drum throughout New South
Wales, the Rev. J. E. Tenison-Woods is doing
the cause a tremendous service by showing that
-Australian coal is certain to be driven out of the
Eastern markets before many years have passed.
Such a result would affect the local Industry in a
disastrous degree. The output of New South
Wales coal has been stationary for the last three
years, and if Japan is to chip in, as J.E.T.-W.
prophesies, there must be an absolute decrease un-
less an adoption of Protection makes the home
market spread itself. And, in the light of these
circumstances, it is marvellous that Wollongong
miners are still found capable of lending their
voices to the prevailing howl for Freetrade. It
would be just as rational for undertakers to ad-
vocate the abolition of death as for New South
Wales coal-miners to vote against Protection.
—
Says a recent London paper
"One of two kangaroos, the gift of the Marquis of Bute to
the town of Paisley, escaped on Friday from the Brodie Park,
and an exciting chase was the result. The animal ran across
country by Westmount, along the Crow-road, hotly pursued
by some souths. On reaching Ferguslie, the kangaroo, ex-
hausted by the chase, dropped dead."
The foregoing is beautifully typical of the true
meaning of Imperial Federation. The starved old
British lion throws many a hungry eye across
sixteen thousand miles of ocean and longs to try
a plate of kangaroo-soup. If any Australian who
hankers after the joys of a closer union with the
dear old mother-in-law country will take the trou-
ble to wander down to Mrs. Macquarie's Chair
and look across the water to where a muddy,
yellow strip of mullock encumbered with heaps
of timber and stone marks the spot upon which
Lieutenant Dawes made his first little garden and
planted the first peach-trees in New South Wales
soil, he will have a fair instance of what Imperial-
ism means. Garden Island was a beautiful
green islet about which clung many historic
associations, and which enhanced the outlook
down the harbour from the crest of the bosky
knoll upon which now stands the mis-shapen Art
Gallery with its dingy, blank, unlighted facade of
dull brick and ugliness. The island was given to
the Imperial authorities in exchange for something
or other, and “improvements” were at once begun.
These have so far advanced that the island is a
hideous congeries of sheds intended for the recep-
tion of war and other material to supply the ship 3
of the Australian station. When Imperial Federa-
tion is properly accomplished, the Sydney Domain
will probably be turned into a drilling-ground for
the accommodation of the Chinese troops from
Hongkong.
Many people wonder why needy man go into
Parliament, and how they live whilst there. We
cm give them a wrinkle. A great many members
of Parliament get large sums of money by guaran-
teeing overdrafts with banks for contractors doing
Government work. Then the department is
worked by the member, the contractor gets all
sorts of concessions, the bank gets its little 12 per
cent., the member gets his commiesion, and the
bleeding country gets what’s left. Of course, the
member doesn’t get paid for working the depart-
ment. Oh, dear, no ! He gets paid for guarantee-
ing the contractor’s overdraft, although he may
not be worth £5 in the world.
Editor Haddon, of the Argus, is not a man of
one idea. He has two. Anglo-Saxonism and Im-
perialism. The one long since bred out, and the
other tottering. We read that the true Anglo-
Saxon was a man with “ hay-coloured hair, blue
eyes, long back, pot belly, and short legs.” He
may be met occasionally in some parts of Eogland
but is to be found nowhere in Australia —except,
perhaps, in Collins-street. Hengist and Horsa,
the reputed ancestors of Haddon’s tribe, wor-
shipped the god Woden, who inspired them to
rob and murder all who had property or lands and
to “annex” them. If there be anything to show
a connection, it is perhaps that that god is still
worshipped at Westminster and his ghost haunts
the Argus sanctum.
The Coercion regime in Ireland is reaching, day
by day, deeper depths of folly. The latest act of
the Executive, which is endeavouring to suppress
the rights of free speech and public meeting in
Ireland, has been to summon Editor O’Brien and
Mr. T. D. Sullivan (the Lord Mayor of Dublin)
for reporting, in the respective journals of which
they are the editors, the proceedings of meetings
held under the auspices of the proclaimed
National League. The act of placing in the police
court the Lord Mayor of Dublin, who rivals in in-
fluence, by virtue of his office, the Lord Lieu-
tenant of Ireland himself, is one which the Tories
would willingly have avoided, had not their hands
been forced by the necessities of the position they
have themselves created. Probably Mr. Balfour,
and those who with him entered with such light
hearts into the work of dragooning Ireland into
quiet and content, have by this time discovered the
futility of their task, Mr. Balfour is a literary
man, and has doubtless read history. But it is a
strange evidence of the spirit of presumption
which may animate the bosom of a callous Tory
occupying his first portfolio, that he should hope
to succeed where Pitt and Peel and Beacons-
field failed. If the Tories wish to carry out the
policy they have adopted, consistently and
thoroughly, they will have to follow up their
action in summoning T. D. Sullivan by send-
ing bim to gaol on the very first occasion
upon which they can get a conviction against
him, as they have already sent his police-
court colleague. William O'Brien. When this
occurs the world will have atrulv typical instance
of the kind of Government Tories wish to give to
Ireland. There is much sinister cunning in Lord
Salisb dry’s present course of action in Ireland.
He has almost succeeded in placing that country
in a dilemma. If, on the one hand, his repressive
measures drive Irish activity underground,
and provoke the bloody reprisals of the
past, he will be in a position to ap-
peal to the passion and prejudice of the
English people to confirm the wisdom of his
coercive measures. But if, as some unreflecting
friends of Ireland advise, the insults and injustice
of coercion should be borne in a spirit of lamblike
submission, the Tory leader could claim such a re-
sult as the outcome of his “ stronghanded ”
policy. The only method of evading this twofold
difficulty is contained in that dogged policy of
“ rational resistance” which Davitt and the Irish
leaders counsel, and in which they are aided and
encouraged by Labouchkre and the Radicals of
England, and silently sympathised with by Glad-
stone and the Liberals. Such a combination cannot
take very long to break the hearts of the Tory
leaders and break the back of the last Irish Coer-
cion Act.
Brutus.
The man inexorably just
From his stern virtue nought will bend :
He tells the truth—and damns his friend.
Old times, old mem’ries, ancient trust,
And friendship, move him not a jot.
I love him not—
This Brutus no remorse can move,
With his thin lips of bitter blue.
I hold this thing for sure and true—
The traitor to his friend will prove
A traitor to his country, too.
V. J. D.
CORRESPONDECE
‘ J. Smith Your “Australian poetry” is all
wattle—and dab.... ‘H W.F.’: Good ‘Honi’ : Please give
address ‘E.EE.’: Judge M'Farland's homily about the
insolvent who owes £5OO and yet has no assets except £5
worth of clothes, is as stale as the eggs that were laid by the
geese that saved Ancient Rome...Mo ’: He got his “ beau-
tiful English accent" by living six weeks at Toorak.,..
‘James Anstey’: Mr. Griftii appears to be a person utterly
devoid of political scruples.... 1 Gregory’ (Wollongong):
Thanks ‘P. Martley’: Write no more poetry for us
unless you would have to sleep in steel nightcap
and dagger-proof blankets....‘E.A,C.‘ (Ballarat): Can
yob help us by naming some of the verses?—‘Fred
Day’: Very milch oblige! ‘ N.S.W.’ (Wilcannia):
Thanks for letter. Contains a lot of good ideas which we
will use and pass off as our own....‘Moses’: If, as alleged
by the Wesleyan Spectator, the “ Board" was on its side
during the trial of the recent libel action, Burely a new
hearing should be granted on the ground of undue influence !
...,‘ H.D.’ (Toowoomba): Chestnut. We fought a duel like
that ourselves once, each party choosing his own weapons.
We chose a bulldog and won in a canter. The other man
fought with a snake and a red-hot poker —‘ E. Barnes’:
The only way we can see to ensure the identification of a
Chinaman is to ear-mark him....“ Bertha BThe “ best
and most manly book ever written by an Australian resi-
dent” is, in our opinion, “ Old New Zealand,” by “ Pakeha
Maori ’’ (the late Judge Maning of the NZ. Land Court.)
You can get it for three or four shillings or less ...
‘ Ambulator’: University professors cannot teach the art of
writing poetry, hence it is not very wonderful that your
verses are better than we should have expected....‘N.F.'
(Milton): Print your poem! Not for Joseph E. Hill’
(Wafcha): Will read ...‘R.M.W.’ (Bourke): Many thanks
for your sensible letter. If all women will only take your
view of the question—that it is more expedient for woman to
rely on her weakness than on her strength—Parkes’ petti-
coated politicians may still be but a nightmare of the
future....' Anon’ : “That Tournament” has unhinged us,
but we have strength enough left to kill the poet if he will
kindly call any hour before breakfast ' Green Rag’: You
have more characters in your two-ell fares than there
are in a medioeval miracle-play ‘Senex’: Why
should an eagle worry about unfurling a flag; the
eagle doesn't typify democracy, anyhow... Robert L imb’ :
You write yourself down a “shearer”; isn't this going back
on your family ?.... ‘ H ackle Birnie ’: Thanks; you have hold
of the business end of the stick....'H.H.C.’ (Wickham):
Held for consideration....‘ Alpha’ (Menindie): Too vast for
immediate deliverance; will take it in sections...,‘ Jules
Mumm ’: Not suited ‘ Solicitor ’ : G00d....‘ Spectator’:
Thanks, but The Bulletin has given up detailing ordinary
ball-costumes ever sines it printed that article headed,
“Miss Smith looked nice, as usual.”.H.P.’ (Guildford,
Surrey); Thanks....* J.J.M.': Mules, aren’t they? Handed
to artist....‘E. Moresby’: No doubt Mr. Wise, who was
perhaps the most rising man at the NSW. bar, in accepting
the A.G -ship did give up a lot of private practice; but then
you can’t have your cake and eat it, too. (2) Judge M. II
Stephen is the son of Sir Alfred Stephen, the ex-Chief Jus-
tice... .‘Bert’: Queen Victoria’s family name is Wettin
She is of the House of Guelph, all the same.... 1 R.A.O
(Queensland): Your kanaka grievance is painfully local, and
as your letter contains no geography, it loooks rather a
strong order that you are giving us. Can t your local paper
take up the heavy end of the log? [Scores of
tions held over.)
A grievance scribbler in the S.M. Herald
signs himself “lafested Runholder.” Now, we
want to know why he doesn’t give insect-
powder a show ?
The Referee
The action of Mr. Phil. Sheridan, managing
trustee of the N.S. W. Association Cricket Ground,
in undertaking the management of Shaw’s cricket
team, totally ignoring the Association, is likely to
at last bring matters to a head. Fur years The
Bulletin has advocated the right of the Cricket-
ing Association to the sole control of matches
played on the ground, and some few loyal
cricketers have never ceased agitating for the
same cause. Whenever the subject was likely to
crop up at an Association meeting, the Trustee
“push” were rounded up to a man and stifled
the cricketers. The Association handed over
to the trustees for the formation of the
ground £750, and although cricketers have
contributed thousands of pounds to the revenue
of the ground, the Association credit balance at
the present time is but £l5O. However, it would
appear the N.S.W. Cricket Association and
athletes generally are at last to get a fair show in
the ground. Week after week for years past have
we drawn attention to the exorbitant charges
levied on bicyclists and athletes by the ground
management. Revenue up to nearly £lO,OOO per
annum is collected by irresponsible people from
these public lands, and for that reason alone it is
well some change should now take place. Here-
tofore a balance-sheet has been shown annually,
but merely, we are told, as a matter of courtesy.
* » *
It is rather soon for the Britishers to talk
of having another shy for the Amerioan Challenge
Cup, yet the cable has been brought into requisi-
tion to tell us that one Mr. Sweet, owner of the
cutter Clara, intends to compete next year.
# * *
The A.J.C. are making some big strides
for the season of 1888. The added money for the
“ Metrop.” is to be increased to £lOOO, the Cham-
pagne Stakes goes up to a similar amount, and
no race is to have less than 200 sovs. added money.
No two-year-old racing is to come off at the spring
meeting.
* * •
The gallant attempt was worthy a better
came. After the running for the Canterbury
Gold Cup, three young fellows made an attempt
to annex the trophy, but were just noticed by the
caretaker as they were making off with it.
# * *
Nolan and M'Carthy had a give-and-take
battle for twenty rounds at Foley’s on Saturday
night, when a draw was declared. M'Carthy
gave most punishment, but big gloves were the
order of the night, and he was unable to give the
quietus to his weighty opponent. Foley has now
put up £5O fora 10-stone-l-and-under competition,
which should bring forth some rattling good
work.
* * *
Turner clean-bowled seven of the Belvi-
deres for 35 runs, which looks as if he had
“ wintered well."
# * *
Percy M‘Donnell was very rough on Ferris
on Saturday, hitting him out of bounds twice.
* * *
There was some good racing at the M.R.C.
regatta, on Saturday last. The senior sculls
proved a big struggle between M‘Gill and W.
Matterson, a brother of Neil Matterson, the pro-
fessional. M‘Gill lasted longest, and won.
# * •
The old old story. An unfortunate Jug-
gins was the other day induced by some Sydney
sporting and public-house-keeping geniuses to
take a hand at Nap. He was a callow youth,
who hardly knew a knave from a king, and he
had never heard even the name of the game
before. However, he played, and with so little
success that the Great Oof Bird hovered over the
teachers and enriched them to the extent of £8 10s.
And the young pupil went out and wept some.
But he came back next night, for so deeply does
the game fascinate the guileless Juggins, and they
taught him some more. And their teaching was
sound, for behold when they sat down to play the
teachers had much gold, to wit £7200, and Juggins
hadn’t even half-a-crown. And when they arose
next morning, Juggins had the £7200, and a
lot more, and his teachers had not even a half-
crown.
* * *
The ways of the sporting prophet are
devious, and in Sydney they seem to be more
devious than in other places. Not long ago the
prophet of a weekly paper tipped “ No. 8 ’’ to win,
but when a swell hailed him on the course just as
he was booking a little bet, and inquired what he
was backing, he replied carelessly. ‘ ‘ Oh, I'm just
putting a small sum on No. 1. ” “ But, didn’t
you tip No. 8 ?” said the swell, in an aggrieved
tone. “Oh, yes, I did; but that was for the
public. This is for myself.” And he didn’t seem
to think there was anything remarkable about his
conduct, either.
* * *
Sassiety organs will please note that our
first Australian Peer is an animal which runs on
four legs. The British species has only two.
* * *
Young Mr. Stamper, a well-known Eng-
lish bicyclist, gaily mounted his machine and rode
off to visit the girl he doted on. While travelling
30 miles an hour down a steep hill, poor Stamper
was flung against a brick wall and killed. It was
his last mash. This ought to be a solemn warn-
ing to young men against going courting on two
thin wheels. Better stick to the old-fashioned
wings of Love.
# * *
The horse-reporter of the Peak Downs
(Q.) Telegram went down to see Melbourne Cup
last year, and was so pleased with the show that
he evidently felt as if he were going up to heaven
between two hot pancakes, while all the little
angels were pouring hot treacle down his back:
“ Such an absorbing interest as is displayed is
mesmeric. It is a syren that throws her beauti-
ful arms around you, and, unresisting, some ink
to slumber in her embrace. They may awake
refreshed, or they may never awake ruined.” We
shall be deeply interested to know how the young
man from Peak Downs feels at the Cup this year.
• • »
Edward Courtney, the Yankee sculler
whom some folks declared to be better than Han-
lan in the latter’s prime, has defeated George
Bubear. This doesn't necessarily make out
Courtney to be all that fancy painted him, but is
sufficiently good form to revive the old question
of what he really could do if his heart were in the
right place. It must be some years now since the
Yankee caueed, or sanctioned the sawing of his
boat in two on the eve of a match with Hanlan
the Invincible.
* * •
No more must be said about the disreput-
able row which caused boxer Lees’ flight to Eng.
land. Tom has made amends by setting up as a
Home Rule missionary and telling a crowded
house at the Beotia Theatre, Glasgow, that “ all
Australia was with Ireland.” Tee bruiser s warm
tinted declaration will be a mild corrective to the
“loyal” gush of our travelling C.M.G.’p. Yes,
Tom Lees has joined the Land League, and all his
little sins are forgiven.
• * •
Let us have Australian peers by all means.
It would be real jam to warn them otf the turf for
life, d la Ailesbury, doncherknow.
* * *
The Tasmanian Football Association has
come to the conclusion that the local professors of
the noble game are much betted without courtesy
dinners when they go travelling. It seems they
have a “weakness” in that direction. There-
fore the T.F.A. earnestly desires no more fiery
hospitality than buns and milk to be offered to the
Tasmanian footballer abroad. The Victorian
F.A. has promised to consider this matter, but
regrets the necessity for renouncing its own
share in the annual orgies.
* * *
Since we hinted at the possibility of
Carlyon developing into “White’s best,” this
nice-looking colt has won the Caulfield Guineas.
Which reminds us, Volcano is confidently ex-
pected to erupt this Saturday.
* * *
Any number of twenties to one were ob-
tainable about Lady Betty, who dead-heated with
Consequence for the Caulfield Great Foal Stakes:
* * *
No better-looking horse will start for the
V.R.C. Derby than Tranter. He ha 3 the fine pro-
portions and game-looking headpiece of his half-
brother, Trenton. Further, Tranter is fit, and
fancied by his trainers.
* * *
Lord Carington’s turf luck is changing a
bit. His lordship hasn’t run last for quite a con-
siderable time.
* * *
Certain flash Sydney bookmakers know
altogether too much for this world. One of their
best tricks is to emerge from a cab in a crowded
street without payiDg their fare, and when the
miserable Jehu hangs round and tries to collect
the same they have him run in for loitering. The
cabbies are getting rather tired of this trick, and
are planning vengeance, and in this connection
they might take a hint from a Ballarat hotel-
keeper, whose free lunch was resorted to by the
whole Stock Exchange for yea*s whenever it felt
a sinking about the weskit. He filed his schedule
at last, and among the eausas of his insolvency he
stated that his wife had lost the use of her right
hand through the constant cutting of sandwiches
for loafing sharebrokers. They took to paying
alter that.
* * *
’Murkan item : A Dakota organisation has
on its letterhead these words: “ Office of the
Brule County Horse Racing Association Succes-
sor to the Young Men’s Christian Association."
# # •
A well-known jockey, brought up at
Melbourne for damaging his wife with his hands
and feet, bitterly resented the offensive inter-
ference of the police. “It was, after all, only a
family affair,” he remarked. Every man has a
right to wallup his own nigger.
* * •
The centreboarder J. S. Poyen, junr.,has
gone to Brisbane, Mr. Jewett, who imported the
J.S.P. from America, has done well to get rid of her,
as there was scarcely a ballast boat in Sydney har-
bour but could give her the go-by.
The retort valiant from a very
pretty witness in the Adelaide police-court lately.
When examined by a lawyer as to whether she
was ever drunk, she replied, “Just as drunk as
you get sometimes, Mr. Blank.” “ Where have
you seen me drunk?” “At my house, on beer
and champagne.” She was allowed to stand
down.
As we go to press it is announced that the
N.S.W. Elections and Qualifications Committfl)
have decided that Mr. Wise has not forfeited his seat
by taking fees from the Government. No reason is
given for the decision, and as the members of the
Committee were pledged to supply no information
to the Press, we are inclined to think they have
been taking legal advice oil the matter.
A Melbourne parson, speaking at a recent
public meeting called to discuss the New Hebrides
question, said that the Soudan Contingent, of
glorious memory, should be sent to Havannah
Harbour to maintain British (i.e,, Bible and cocoa-
nut oil) interests in the New Hebrides. “ The Vaga-
bond,” writing for the Age, says that goats are
very numerous and troublesome on these islands.
There is a dim connection between these two
items of intelligence, but we haven’t time to point
it out more definitely, inasmuch as we have just
been beckoned to by a man at the hotel opposite.
Potts Point and Toorak will be interested
to hear that their sawney friend—
“ Prince Albert Viator, ihe eldest son of the Prince of
Wales, models himself on Ouida's h“roes He is as fond of
kaick-knacks as a lady Hia private apirimsnts are the
nearest approach to the talented but vulgar auth resss
ideal of a young guardsman's rooms He would not brash
his hair otherwise than with an ivory-backed brush to sava
his life. Eau de Cologue and other perfumes have their
place in his bath. To write a note on paper that was not the
triumph of the -eifume.’s art, would, in his own imagin B '
tion. be unworthy of his tastes and position. He has started
in life, in fact, as au exquisite of the George IV. type; hat
he is preserved from some of the most objectionable traits of
the * First Gentleman’s ’ character by the sensitive shyness of
bis disposition. He differs again from most exquisites ®
having a praiseworthy desire to pay promptly for th e
luxuries in which he indulges. Like his father he gets r. -
clothes—and plenty of them—from Poole. Prince Albert
Victor’s idea of dignified mufti is a frock-coat and lavender
or grey trousers. He seldom wears a cutaway coat, a® l
even when travelling, hardly ever appears in a suit of dittoes'
On the whole he may be declared as a very stately
solemn young man."


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal—" Harbour bights " P>ls
Exhibition Buildin».— Roller Skating Rink ■■
Alhambra Music Hall. Minstrelsy.... «
Or it srion Theatre.—" Ingomar i>
Royal Standard Theatre. Minstrelsy 14
Her Majesty's Theatre.—“ Alone ” and "Black-
Eyed Susau”
The long-expected and much-advertised
“ Harbour Lights ’’ opened at Sydney Royal on
Saturday evening, and made aim iat as big a strike
as was anticipated. S ill whei viewed by the
naked eye ot ttia child of wraih the drama does
not seem to present quite so many points as mignt
have been expected. Apart from the glowing
scenery, its strongest feature is probaoly its
lucidity—it is as clear as a dog with a bread basket
on top of it hidden behind a sack of glue. The hero
is a sea-horse in the service of the lady who is Pre-
eminent in Grief, and he has a sweetheart named
Dora whose adopted sister was previously engaged
to an object in boots, but left him, and was
seduced by the unprincipled squire, which same
entraps Dora into his ancestral halls one dark
evening when he is all alone, his guests having
fled from him when he asked them to endorse a
bill, and hauls her all over the shop till her lover,
who had shipped on the road to burst the collar
of the squire’s distant relative and to choke him a
little, comes in and smites him on the mouth,
and he is blown up by the spectre with the boots.
Next the publican’s daughter Is thrown out of atrap
on her head, and her mother being soured by the
receipt of a bad half crown which she afterwards
gives away by mistake to a marine, then goes
and falls down a hatchway on top of a sea-cook
with a basin of soup, in her efforts to find the
captain whom she had been informed by a man
who lib a match on her bonneb was generally
perched on top of the funnel—but we have lost
the thread of this sentence and must try again.
The image with the boots having been squared by
the mhn whose collar was burst under a dry arch
prepares, contrary to the advice of his mother—a
lady of the clump-soled description—to fly with
his girl to a fairer land across the treacherous pea-
green sea, bub his mother casts the girl into the
bounding waves, and he is stood on his head by
the officer already mentioned, or if he wasn’t
mentioned he ought to have teen,
who is a little ahead of a
policeman, having got out by
the back door just as the foorce
came in at the front and found
his wife in a dishevelled con-
dition, but supported by the
sailor who shied the publican’s
daughter out of the trap on her
head. Meanwhile we have lost
sight of the girl who was spilt
into the sea, and must go back
to report that a stern invader
comes sbinnirg along the shore
in search of her, while an object
which is evidently intended for
a human being goes head first
into the ragmg surf, and wails
with the mighty whale while
hanging to a perpendicular cliff
with herarms round his neck, and
she bi gs him to let her slide, and
he replies in floweiy language
that if she can only stick wl ere
she is for another minute the
peeler will be along, and they will both get dry in
gaol. From this brief sketch it will be se e a that 1 ‘ Har-
bour Lights” is replete with thrilling incident,
and though its success depends more on scenery
than on artistic power, it is supported by a strong
cast. A few particulars regarding the same will
be found in a future issue. For the present we
are exhausted, and must pause for a rest,
## # #
We arrived at Sydney Gaiety in good time
and swung by our tail in a front seat, till the cur-
tain arose, and the troubles of “ Shamus
O'Brien” were laid bafore the sultry public in five
acts. Shamus, we believe, is strictly original, but
still, like most heroes of Irish drama, he reminded
U 3 a good deal of something we had seen before.
When alive he was an animal of large discourse who
was mixed up with an Irish rising at a time when
old hashed rebel was for sale at a remarkably low
figure, and he rose so high that it is a marvel he
ever got down again. Whenever he met the
Saxon oppressor in force he chawed his ear
off and kept it for a trophy, and in return the
tyrant chased him through his native bogs and
made it hot for him.
They chased him with thimble’, and chased him
with care,
They pursued him with forks and hope ;
They threatened his life with a railway share,
ti They charmed him with smiles and soap.
As a rule, however, he managed to keep in front,
and flitted like a baleful spook amid mountains
and precipices, and over slippery places where a
healthy cat could hardly find a foothold,
while the panting Sassenach toiled in his
rear and aimed stink-pots at his head.
Sometimes the enemy got up on him, and
set the house on fire while he was asleep, but he
always awoke in time to pump on the conflagra-
tion ; sometimes they captured him and carried
him away on a horse, but this generally ended in
him carrying away the horse; and once they
were about to hang him but he opened the window
and went out. He wa3 assisted in his troubles by
a holy father and a colleen, and he was harassed
by the mouldy bailiff without whom no Irish
drama would be complete, but he triumphed over
them all and lived, we believe, to a great age.
Mr. Dampier made a brilliant hero out of Shamus,
but we are inclined to think it wasn t fehamus so
much as Dampier who brought down the house ;
Miss Lily Dampier was a colleen who was worth
all the trouble the 1 Irish patriot took on her ac-
count; and Mr. W K Baker fixed up the villain-
ous colonel to the satisfaction of all concerned.
The priest was a weary iteration of 250 other
priests we have met with in similar dramas, and
the Irish major was the same old major as before.
As for the bailiff he is invariably a lantern jawed,
short-haired alligator, and he also was exactly
what might have been expected. Give us an Irish
drama for once, please, without the priest and the
bailiff.
## # *
“ Ingomar,” that leggy Goth with the big
feet, has been revived at Sydney Criterion, and
comes down with a dull, sickening thud every
night amid the sound of the sackbut and psaltery
and all kinds of music. Miss Essie Jenyns as
Parthenia, the Greek maiden in the long white
robe, repeats her last year’s triumph, and Bill
Holloway, when he exhibits his manly counten-
ance with the door-mat on his jaw in the part of
Ingomar, also repeats something, but we have for-
gotten the name of it. Owing to the secession of
Mr. Charles Holloway the part of Polydore, the
miser, is executed amid circumstances of peculiar
atrocity by Mr. Norman. The rest of the cast is
as good as before, though the Timarch'a petticoat
has not grown any longer, and business at the
Criterion is remarkably active.
“ Galled Back ” Is announced at Her
Majesty’s for Saturday next, on which occasion
Miss Kate Bishop makes hor first appearance at
this theatre. George Rignold takes the part of
Paolo Macari, and though his mighty figure is
several times larger than that of the ordinary
Italian conspirator—the one who conspires with a
hand-organ and a monkey—a great success is
anticipated.
** # *
The niggers at Sydney Royal Standard,
and at the Alhambra, are booming gently, and the
large eared imp of Satan wno attends these places
of amusement is getting moderately good value
for his money. O the two nhows, however, the
A hambra is evidently the more popular, and it is
th-re the low lived, bull headed swab most ‘doth
congregate when he wants to steep his slab sided,
soul in bliss. But the knock kneed dustman at
the Standard makes up in enthusiasm what ha
wants in numbers, and on the whole Mr. Frank
Smith is getting his fair share of success.
-at
*7v* *Jv* ■’Tv *7v*
“ L°s Cloches de Coraeville ” enjoyed a
checkered career of six nights at Melbourne Prin-
cess's Miss Maggie Moore retired wi h a cold,
and a subs' ituta had to be found for Miss Kelton
After this, very reduced multitudes rolled ud to
hear Mis 3 Co'borne Baber sing the music of “ Ser-
polettn’’ better than it ever has bean sung in our
THE BEAUTEOUS SKINNER.
dear old mother tongue. This young lady’s
warbling may be a little uncertain, but a: her bast
she knocks spots off the nightingale. On Satur-
day “La Mascotte” was put up to bring back
luck, and this should fill tha Princess’s as wall a,3
anything that isn’t “fashionable, my dear,” will
fill such a rekerky establishment. Italian opera
has got fai'ly boll of them at the Roy a', a remark
which probably app.ies to “Modern Wives” at
thS Bijou. Full and particular de ails of that
comedy are held over till they have matured in
The Bulletin’s brain. Mr. Henry Harwood’s
benefit went off with a bang and blew out Brough
aud Boucieault’s season at the Opera House, last
Thursday night. Which historic event was coin-
cident with the second coming of Fiske Jubilee
Singers to the Town Hall. Much enthusiasm and
many parsons prevailed throughout the proceed-
ings. After mentioning that the mechanical AH
is still shaking his gory locks at the Wax Works,
there is nothing else to say about Melbourne
shows, except that the girls are thinking of ap-
pearing in their new Spring witcheries directly
the weather gets more settled.
## # *
The Melbourne theatrical trade, which
lung suffered from over-production in its higher
branches, is just now under the sole control of the
Triumvirate and Brough and Bouoioault. Work
is suspended at the Alexandra, while the Opera
House has bsen taken by Frank Clark for the
sale of novelties of a light and leggy description.
“Variety” stars, of surpassing brilliancy and
magnitude, are riding the salt wave under engage-
ment to the new management, for a season, which
opens on the 22nd. Frank Clark also intends to
keep on with burnt cork and beauty at the Vic-
toria Hall, and the Coghills hope, by strict atten-
tion, &c., to continue to deserve the patronage,
&c., as St. George’s. Thus the old supoly and
demand difficulty is about to assume a fresh phase.
May the best niggers win.
#* # #
Miss Aggie Kelton (Mr 3. Harr : son), a
piquante and promising member of the company
now performing at Melbourne Princess's, lost her
twelvemonth-old baoy la» t week. Life isn’t all
comic opera for any of the players.
*# * *
More “ Mikado ” ; more Yum-Yum — at
Adelaide this time, where the Royal Comic Opera
Co. are about to open, with Leonora Braham as
the little Japanese daisy about whom Naoki Poo
lost all the head he ever had, and it wasn’t much.
Locke Ricoardson is orating at the Royal, and
good people who were never inside a theatre
before in the whole course of 1 heir miserable lives
are crowding to hear him ; and Garner's Theatre
also fills wel), the flying man, Onzalo, being the
chief attractior. Bland Holt is gone, and has left
an aching void behind h'm The last act of his
career ia Adelaide consisted in returning thanks
fjr a beautiful gold chain and bracelet, presented
by Mr. Herbert Flemming on behalf of the com-
pany, as a present to his bride —Miss Florence
Anderson.
## * #
The fresh and unsophisticated Brisbane
intellect has been taken by the ‘ 1 Mikado," and in
particular it has been taken by Grade Plaisted s
Yum-Yum. The reports in the Queensland papers
make us feel almost young again, instead of the
bowed down Methusaleh we are Carrie Swam is
going, and Amy Sherwin is gone after a very pro-
fitable season apiece, and Emelie Melville opens in
their stead as Lady Gay Spanker, in London
Assurance.”
#* * *
Essie Jenyns was confirmed in St. John’s
Cathedral, Brisbane, a few weeks ago.
** # *
Charles Harding and William Arrowsmith
have purchased an alligator, which they intend to
show the public in every Paddy’s Market in the
colonies. Oh, if that alligator would only eat
some actors wo wot of 1
*# # *
Our friend, Alice Dunning Lingard, is
having a merry time of it in England, where her
“ Sister Mary ’’ is now a thorough institution.
WRECK OF THE DERRY
CASTLE.
THE STORY OF THE SURVIVORS.
This is a thrilling story of the sea. Not one of
those that the Marryatts, Coopers, and Clark
Russells have evolved, bu.. a true tale of misery,
stiff-ring, peril; of eight strong men cast away on
a desolate island for more than a third of a year,
enduring and fighting hardships which are
shuddering to relate.
The' e arrived recently at the port of Melbourne
afteratempestuous voyage, a small sailing schooner
of but 48 tons, the Awarua, bringing with her the
survivors of the ba quo Derry Castle, eight strange
looking beings, in clothing of stranger description;
hats made of birds’ feathers, boots made of seal
skins, their hair long and unkempt, and their faces
covered with thick beards. Such men are not
given to exaggeration. Let them tell their
story :
We sailed from the port of Geelong, Aus., on
the 10th of March last in the Derry Castle, an iron
barque of 1367 tons, with 17,300 bags of wheat,
for Falmouth, Eng. She was commanded by
Captain Gcft'e, and had a crew of 22 officers and
men and one passenger onboard. Early on the
morning of the 20th March, with all sails set and
the vessel making 12 knots an hour, she ran full
head on to Enderby Island, one of the Auckland
Islands, some 200 miles south of New Zealand.
Five minutes after she struck she commenced to
settle, head down, heavy seas broke over her, and
the men were either washed overboard or jumped
into the tempestuous sea lashing the rock-bound
coast, which could now be seen not more than 200
yards distant. Eight—the passenger and seven
seamen—managed to reach the shore, scantily clad,
cut, bruised and bleeding, but the remainder of
the 22 souls perished in the waves. Daylight
brought with it new horrors, for pointed out by
the ravenous sea hawks ghastly sights were seen.
Among the seaweed at the foot of the clifls the
captain, chief officer, and an able seaman lay dead,
mutilated not only by the surf and cruel rocks,
hut by the savage seahawks as well. The bodies
were tenderly borne to shallow graves by the men
who were themselves in living graves and given
kindly sepulture. The surrivors were in a most
deplorab’e condition; they had neither fire, nor
food, except t hell fish, which was very scarce, and
but little covering, while autumn had set in, and
winter was approaching in a bleak southerly lati-
tude. The men suffered t eveiely from rheumatism
and pains in their kidneys, caused by their feet
being continually cold and wet from contact with
the marshy ground. A thatched hut of gras3 was
built, and in this the castaways huddled for
warmth. After being without fire for ten days,
the passenger bethought himself of a pistol
cartridge he had in his pocket; the bullet was
extracted, a hole made in a braid, and the precious
caitridgeinserted, its lover portion being filled
I with frayed rags. Eight men stood around to
watch the outcome, Their hearts best wildly,
they quivered with excitement, and it was a long
time before anyone dare strixe the blow which
was to decide their fate. At last the rude hammer
was raised, and brought cown on the nail held on
the fulminate of the cartridge. It exp oded! the
tiny flame caught the liren, the blaze spread,
twigs were placed on, they crackled in fiery joy
and lit up the faces of the shipwrecked men, who
fell on their knees in silent thankfulness. But
the reaction set in ; a huge bonfire was built, and
the men danced about it like veritable schoolboys.
Never before had a fire meant so much to them.
The gold of commerce was as dross beside it,
Thereafter a watch was told off, and constantly
kept, and the Are guarded with jealous care.
The sea cast up much wheat from the doomed
vessel, and a large quantity of it was dried and
stored for future use, which with seal flesh and a
fe w mussels, made up the daily fare. A part of
an old axe, left by former whalers, was found half
burled in the sand. It was sharpened with stones
and proved a veriiable god-send, as the survivors
then began to construct a punt, believing that a
cairn, containing provisions for shipwrecked
sailors, was on the main island some seven miles
distant. From the bulkhead of the vessel which
had been driven ashore, the nails were carefully
burned out, the wood saved, and the work on the
punt proceeded. For two months the sailors
laboured on their little craft. The seams were
caulked with sealskin, and the first of June saw
it successfully launched. On the 9th of June,
Sullivan and Rennie, volunteers, left their com-
rades, followed by their prayers, for the main
island ; and with their rough paddles sculled all
day long and into the night when they reached
the longed-for shore, and, to t heir great joy, found
clothing, food, tea, sugar, salt, matches, tools, etc.,
in the cairn erected by the Government of New
Zealand for the relief of castaways. One by one
the men weie conveyed to the larger island.
T >ey still had no boots and suffered greatly from
co.d—as snow-storms were not infrequent.
On the 9th of July a sail was seen, aud the little
community was wild with delight. Signals were
shown, and at night flies were lighted, and all
writer anxiously for the day; with the light the
sailors’ eyes were made glad with the sight
of the taut little craft, the Awarua, a Ne v
Zealand schooner, whieh had come down to the
island for a whaleboat she had left some time
before Captain Drew and his men made the
castaways moie than welcome; and on the 2nd
of August they left the inhospitable shore on which
they had spent 136 days of an existence such as
few men ever lived to tell the story of But
litt e more remains io be told. On reading in the
Melbourne press that the men were suffering from
rheumatism and kidney troubles Mess.s. H.
H. Warner and Co., with charactetistic generosity,
at once sent to the tailor o’ Home a supply of their
Warner’s safe cure and s*'e pill 3 for the use of
the afflicted seamen. After using the medicines,
and bamg tw ce rescued -this time f om pain
aud d sease—the grateful men unanimously sent
the subjoined letter to the Messrs. Warner&Co,
who value it most highly as a c »ndid expression
from honest hearts. Gentlemen,—We are very
grateful to you for the bottles of Warner's safe
cure and safe pills you so generously presented to
us on our arrival in Melbourne, when you became
j aware we were suffering from rheumatism and
kidney difficulties, contracted through exposure
while shipwrecked on the Auckland Islands. We
have all used the safe remedies with the most
gratifying results. In fact we are now well.
We cinrecommend with great confidence Warner’s
safe cure and Warner’s safe pills for kidney
disease and rheumatism, believing that what
these medicines have done for us they will do for
others.—Gratefully yours, _
NICHOLAS WALLACE,
JOHN HUSBAND,
F. JERNWALD,
A. NYBERG,
DANIEL SULLIVAN.
HUGH LOGAN,
WILLIAM RENNIE,
Survivors of the barque Derry Castle.


pepper
And
Salt
Now comes the witching season of the
year when men lav down to yawn, and “ ekeeters ”
must be fed. Now do they drink hot bloc d and
da such deed* as juicy new-chums quaVe to tbißk
upon. Tcerefore this is tie right moment for
mentioning that the mosquito is a much under-
iati d animal. Thoughtless youths and gentle
maidens put h*m down as an ugly carnivorous
beast composed of four thin legs, two wings, and
a drop of hun an gore—and trr;at him accordingly.
But, fix the mcsquito under a microscope, and
“Presto! lhe tiny, dirt-coloured speck has
vanished, and in its place appears the most
radiant and gorgeous creature which the mind
can conceive of. The wings are of pale amber,
the legs and thorax magenta, the body dark
green, the eyes purplish black and shining like
ebony. Compared with this pomp and magnifi-
cence of decoration the brightest and most vivid
of the painters’ pigments are muddy.” A distin-
guished scientist is responsible for the portion of j
this essay which is placed between inverted
commas, and our bard will further improve the
subject.
“A petition was presented to-day, signed
by 12,066 members of the Women’s Temperance
Union, specially directed against the employment
of women as barmaids.” Humph I It isn't so
much the glass or two of drink, but the nasty,
good for-nothing baggages who serve them, my
dear.
Mr. Jimmy Munro, M.L.A., has been
earnestly beseeching tne Commissioners of Mel-
bourne Centennial Exhibition to forbid the sale of
wines and spirits at their forthcoming show.
About twice a week, on an average, James puts
his tongue in his cheek and asks some modest
little favour like this, with much expectation
of any good resulting except an advertisement fpr
his wily old self. We must talk to him agaip.
AN EPISODE OF YOM KIPPUR EVE.
MR . REGINALD DE BOOZEMUP (of the Lands, to Mr. Moses Aaron Melchisedech, of the
United Patent Oriental Back Action Loan and Discount Bank, head office Lombard-
FAST TO MORROW?”
MR. M. A. MELCHIS[?]DECH: “FAST: I'LL MAKE SOME OF YOUR CROWD FAST
NEXT WEEK. I PROMISE YOU.”
Illegitimate births are less numerous in
N.Z. than in any of the other colonies. This is,
no doubt, all attributable to the earthquakes.
“ Hallo, nigger, hovsr are you coming up ?”
asked a Sydney youth the other day of a mild
darkey who was strolling leisu ely down the
street. “ Oh, all right, larrikin,” replied the
curly headed humorist as he calmly sailed on-
wards.
It takes a lot to wipe out a Croydon (Q.)
man. One who galloped against a tree, according
to a local paper, remounted and rode home “ with
his left cheek hanging down on his neck, his collar
hone switching through his shirt, and enough
blood on his clothes to supply all the mining
agents In Croydon with copying-ink for the next
twelve months.” And still he lives, moves, and
supplies par?, to the local pre?s.
ANOTHER JOY FOR EVER.
Of the beautiful mosquito
The poet blithely sings ;
He flutters through the darkness
On amber-tinted wings ;
His little legs and thorax
Are magenta in their hue,
And nestling on his bosom
Is a dab of navy-blue.
He seems a shabby varmint
At a careless, passing glari ce,
And the story of his splendour
Reads a little like romance;
But when through many lenses
That giddy fly is seen,
His rounded ribs are covered
With a coat of glowing green.
Will you swear at the mosquito
Who visits you at night,
When you know his pretty peepers
Are balls of purple light
That glitter like the diamonds
In haughty lady’s ears—
The dewdrops ’neath the stiubeams,
Or childhood’s limpid tears ?
If you knew the little stranger
(Even now upon your track)
Made play with a proboscis
Of burnished, ebon black,
Would those pieroing purple peepers
Catch the frown upon your brow—
Wo aid his stealthy visitations
Vex you then, as they do now ?
The kindly heart of Nature
Is shown in little things ;
She gave that gorgeous splendour
To the “ skeeter’s” legs and wings—
Yes, Nature gave the insect
Her richest, choicest dower,
That you might spare his beauty
In the solemn midnight hour.
AFTER YEARS.
Long ago we parted from him—many a golden
year ago,
Then our locks were black as thunder—now they
are as white as snow.
And we met him on the pavement on the Mel-
bourne Eastern Hill,
And we said (about his poems), “Have you got
the old thirst still ?
The old thirst Heliconian —dost with Apollo
clink ?”
“Can you set ’em up,” he whispered ; “do you
hold it for a drink ?”
* * *
THE WAIL OF THE WIFE.
Those impudent vixens who serve at the bar,
What mischief and trouble they make !
We all know what brazenfaced wretches they are
And what simpletons do for their sake ;
In the pockets of husbands their photos, are found,
Together with bits of dyed hair—
John’s drinking and flirting all day, I’ll be hound,
Wnile I haven’t a shilling to spare.
As a wife and a mother I beg to protest
Against giddy girls in hotels—
Just look at the way they are painted and dress’t
To work their iniquitous spells.
I wouldn’t believe any good of a minx
Employed as a barmaid, so there!
The way that Jonn’s wages are wasted in drinks
Is wicKed, I xeally declare.
If Premier Parkes has a morsel of sense
Hb’il order the barmaids to go ;
I won’t hear one word in the creatures defence—
I reckoned them up long ago.
My own pet aversions are Lotties and Mauds :
All sensible wives should beware
Of those artful, made-up, sly delusions and frauds;
01 a barmaid I cannot a-bear.
TOO THIN.
Jimmy Munro, now, what is the use
Of drivelling on about water,
When the succulent grape has such beautiful
juiea?
And are you, dear Jimmy, so precious obtuse
As to see ho delight in rum mingled with spruce ?
Dry up this moment, and go to the deuce—
You ought to know better, you oughter.
Drink is a curse, as we always agree—
A horrible curse, in a measure ;
The home of the boozer is frequently dree;
Is that any reason why poets like we
Should swear off for ever from soda and B. ?
It s all very well to do business on tea,
But brardy’s the liquor for leisure.
Jimmy Munro, you’ve a hatchet to grind
In running the teetotal fad, sir ;
Tt pays you to pose as a friend of mankind—
Brings grist to your mill from the godly-inclined.
But, bless you ! we’re not so uncommonly blind
That we can’t see your purpose a-lurking behind -
Jimmy, we’re not to be had, sir
Shove the good cause up Iniquity Hill—
Confusion to sinners who’d thwart it!
But water needs summat to take off the chill.
So, why do you spout tommy nonsense until
We look round about us for something to kdl ?
The good of this bogus petition is nil—
You only want scribes to report it.
Jimmy Munro, are you on for a drink ?
Just give the pizon a name, sir ;
The “bob" ’s in our pocket, and pleasant its
chink-
Water s all right for to wash out the sink—
Nobody’s looking, so tip us the wink—
You murmured “unsweetened with soda,” we
think ?
Certainly I ours is the same, sir.
ABORIGINALITIES.
For the historian who wishes to write up the
legends of Amt. alia, the “ Glue-pot ” on Biscuit
fiat (S. A.) would furnish a good text for many a
gruesome tale. It is a heaving swamp filled with
mud as tenacious as half-boiled glue ; in summer
it is little larger than a well —whose depths have
never been sounded by living man—but in winter
it spreads over two or three acres of ground, and
everything that comes within its reach is slowly
and remorselessly sucked down—down —down to
unfathomable depths below. It never gives up
anything on which it has laid a hold : the man
whose feet are once caught in that slimy grave is
lost as completely as if he had been eaten, and
his bones ground to impalpable powder and scat-
tered over the seas. Away back in the golden
days of the 50’s the Glue Pot invited in many a
traveller bound overland to Ballarat, and none of
them came out. They walaed gently ai d unsus-
pectingly into a bottomless tomb, and probably
each of the succeeding 30 years has seen their
sodden bones sucked down to a lower and still
lower depth, until at last they find rest on the
adamantine pillars of the earth. Sometime in
1856, 200 guileless Chinamen came over this road
with a whits bullock-driver to convey their swags
and officiate as guide. When they camped
at night it was also his business to
round up stragglers, and on the evening
when they halted by the Glue Pot he sta-
tioned himself between his flock and th 9 swamp
and whenever a Chinaman approached he flicked
him back with his bullock-whip. But one doomed
Ah Sin escaped hie notice and went into the
swamp to hunt for something—Confucius only
knows what; fish, very likely; frogs, perhaps;
probably crabs—and was caught. His brethren
danced round the back explaining the position to
each other, but doing nothing ; then the bullock-
driver fished for the Mongol vainly with a rope,
but failed to get him oW, and all this time the
Glue-Pot was rising and spreading, till at last the
lost Ah Sin was many yards away from firm ground
and hopelessly out of reach. All that night he
raised a mournful “hurrah” at intervals—it was
the only word of English he knew—and in the
morning, when the caravan moved on and left
him to his fate, he was still hurrahing in a cracked,
beseeching voice that sounded like the wail of a
lost soul. It was 21 hours before he was swal-
lowed as far as the shoulders, and in that period
a dozen travellers had been attracted by the
trange sound of Chinese cheering- in the Glue-
Pot, and had tried to rescue him, and, failing,
had passed on. Another day came, and only his
face and one arm appeared above the surface, and
still that ioyles3 ' hurrah ’' brought passers-by to
the edge of the swamp, till at last, in the after-
noon, his head disappeared below the grasping
slime, and only the stiffened arm of the lost
Chiaaman remained above the surface. A few
hours later it also vanished; the foredoomed
Asiatic had sunk into the bowels of the earth,
and his soul had gone to be for ever with Joss
Confucius on the Heavenly Hoang-Hc.
* • *
The fact that all flesh is grass is once more
exemplefled in these columns. One bright Sunday
morning last August, when the birds were singing
sweetly, and the voice ot the bounding kangaroo
was raised in that sorrowful chant which so mad-
dens the wild, foreign emu, the soul of Dr.
of Croydon (N.Q.) parsed away, and he went on
his last visit to find out what had becjme of all
his patients. The funeral was fixed for noon the
same day, and all Croydon and its dog turned out
to follow the procession, and as each dog brought
a friend along With him, and as more dogs joined’
the oaravan en route, it came to pas 3 at la3t that
the show consisted mainly of dogs. Yet the pro-
ceedings were carried out with tolerable decorum’
until at last the forward dogs roused an emu, and
passed the word to the middle dogs, and they
mentioned it to the dogs at the rear, whereupon l
they all started off in chase. Then the afflicted
mourners tailed away behind the dogs, and the
hearse followed at a canter till it got bushed, and
the remains went round and round for an hour or
so, vainly trying to find the way to their
last resting-place. At the end of that
time the procession began to straggle back
along with the dogs and one dead emu, and ulti-
mately the cemetery was reached, and the coffin’
was about to be lowered into the earth, when a
new trouble intervened. The grave-digger had
gone down two feet, and then, coining on the bed"
rock, he had stopped, and the perspiring mourners
laid down the dead emu to protest againsb the in
decency of this arrangement, and demanded that
the deceased should be treated with proper
respect. The discussion grew decidedly warm,
and at one time it seemed as if the dogs were
likely to be sooled on to the sexton, but that
public servant, with great presence of mind,
pointed out that he had fixed matters so that the
rocky formation might prevent the doctor sinking
any lower and gettieg into a warmer climate than
Croydon, and that, though he might stick out
considerably, it would be all the better for his
soul. The explanation was ultimately accepted
as satisfactory, and the proceedings closed in a
harmonious spirit, after which the grief-stricken
crowd adjourned to ‘ wet” the emu at an adja-
cent groggery.
We doat on the baby advertisements i
Bennett’s Babymarket-wc mean the Sydne
Evening News—which paper seems to be th'
recognised organ of mothers who wish to dispoa
of their infants— “open one month.” The marke
is evidently rather overcrowded j ust now, if w
may judge from the folio wing, which represen
the business of two issues only, and the Noose i
disfigured all over by the print of the place wher
the baby has been sat down on it
RmD Person wishes to ADOPT Baby, no objection to a-e
£2O premium. , Newtown Post-office.
\\TANTED Kind PERSON to ADOPT an lafmt from
birth. Premium,£2o. Adiress, —, William at. P O
RIND Lady wishes to ADOPT Baby from birth omm one
month; premium, £25. , Glebe Post-office
WANTED, by a respectable widow, CHILD to care Mrs
rTTl^T : r r’ G f neroQ - st -' Woollahra, near bus-stand
WANTED, by respectable person, care of an infant Ad
dress,Auburn Post-office. A(l
WANTED, a kind person to Adopt Baby from birth £
premium . Post-office, OxforcLtreet A
A MARRIED woman will ADOPT a BABY, any age nre
mium, £l2 down. Mrs. , Marrickyille PO ’ P
WANTED, kind lady to ADOPT BABY girl 16 months old
without money. ~ Burton-at ° ld
WANTED, a kind PERSON to ADOPT a nrrttv ijm B
16 months old. Address, - Paddiogffl o 8
WANTED a Child to Adopt. Advertisers haying no chil
vhtANTErf AMr6S3 ’ °*«owfP°o° hll
WANTED, kind person to ADOPT Boy, 7 years Annie
, Glebe Post-office, Glebe Point-rd Pply
WANTED, by kind Mother, a BABY to NT;RSF
—• Joh “-st, Church-st., Camper down PPly
WANTED, by married Woman, CHILD to Caro. Address
, Haymarket Post-office. aar us
WANTED respectable person, to take Care of Baby Girl '!
months. State terms to , Paddington P 0 ’
Kim - «
WANTED, by respectable person, care of an infant Ad-
dress, , Auburn Post-office
WANTED, kind, respectable WOMAN, care baby, at her
own home, suburbs pref. , Haymarket P.O.
And then, by way of adding variety to the show,
we find this trotting close behind the baby pars ,
as if it were part of the procession :
FOR SALE, fine GOAT and two KIDS.
1) ye hear that now; “goat and two kids?” But
after all what is one goat among so many babies ?
And following this comes another point which we
wmli like Alfred Bennett of the Noose to explain
—how comes it that the great immoral outrage
journal should have a monopoly of this chfid-for-
sa’.e business, and why are the infants all wanted
at suburban post-offices ? Does Bennett imagine
that an offspring will go into a letter-box ? Are
the little unfortunates simply to be shoved in and
left to squall among the book packets till called
for ? And does it never occur to Alfred, when he
thus connives at a system by which babies are
given away along with £2O notes, that he is estab-
lishing a precedent by which he himself may one
day be given away along with half-a-pound of
butter ? Alfred wa3 a baby himself once, and we
rise to ask him how he would have liked, in those
early days whm he u?Bd to try to get his hind leg
into his mouth over the back of his head, if he
had picked up a paper and seen himself advertised
therein, to be given away in a naked condition
and no questions asked, and on top of that
£2O offered to get him out of the road. And, by
r.hi way, a new question arises hero. Some cf the


Infants seem to be for sale, and in the case of
others the mothers are prepared to come down
handsomely to get them taken away. In the in-
stance of the baby which is “ open one month,” it
is hard to say which way the coin goes. If Alfred
Bennett had been offered to the public in this
fashion in his early days, we are inclined to think
he would have had no takers ; but perhap3 he
was the sort of baby that would have gone off beat
gratis and in a shut condition. Bat since the
Noose has gone in for this line of business, why
doesn’t it transact the trade openly 1 Why aren't
the babies on view at the office —a row of
them tied by one leg to the wall, instead of being
applied for in an underhand way at a suburban
po3t-office ? The thing looks mean all round,
somehow, and we are inclined to think the Noose
had better shut up its baby-market, and make up
the loss out of those “ads.” from mysterious
clergymen who are prepared to explain how
epilepsy can be cured for 13 stamps.
* * *
la the old days, when Nagle Ryan was in
his prime and Tom Slattery was not number for
Burrowa, the “ sports” of that one-horse, sleepy
hollow got up a racs-meating. The new-chum
Hibernian who acted as groom at one of the pubs,
asked the boss for the loan of the tip-dray, and
on being asked the purpose, explained that there
was not a stone on the coorse, and he wanted to
bring a load, as “ what fun would there be widout
the shtones ?’’ The shtones were brought, and are
there still. Well, God be wid thB good ould
imes, as King Ryan would say.
* * *
In a certain little coast town in N.S.W.
the poundkeeper was recently called away to a
better land, and there arose a stampede for his
billet. The Bench sat to consider the applications,
and the clerk waded through the heap till he came
to this : “ Gentlemen,—l do myself the honour to
apply for the appointment of poundkeeper in this
town. I have been a resident here for many years.
My character is unblemished, and I am respectably
connected. lam an intimate friend of and in
communication with Sir Robert Wisdom, Sir
Charles Cowper, Sir John Robertson, Sir Henry
Parkes, the Hon. G. R. Dibb3, Mr. John
M'Elhone, Mr. Thomas Walker, Mr. Ninian Mel-
ville, and Mr. Garrett, and have also a slight ac-
quaintance with Sir Julius Vogel, Sir Samuel
Griffith, Sir Patrick Jennings, Sir Robert Stout
Sir —— ’ He was appointed at this stage, and
the Bench adjourned without waiting to hear the
rest of the communication. Moral : This being a
Demccratic country, always get solid with the
titled bug* of the ea -th, that thy days may be IODg
in the land, &c.
* #
Tae Tasmanian Catholic Standard is
about the last receptacle that an ordinary man
would be tempted to turn upside down and shake
in the hope of finding anything humorous, but
when that paper lays itself ont for fan it has few
equals. For instance, in are cent issue it proceeds
to deduce the pedigree of a shining local light of
the Church named C anon Denis MacS winey, and the
following is a sample of how that good and pious
man was c cme by :
“ la A.d. 119, we read that Carthair Mor ascended the
Irish throne He was the 89th in descent from Adam ac-
cording to our annals, and descended in a direct line from
Heremon ; from Fiacha, his youngest son, descended the
O'Tu-rthails, of Wicklow, and from Labhradh, his great
grandson, descended the O’Murphys, of Wexford, the Mac-
Morough3, of Leinster, and the O’Murphys, of Co Cork, m
this manner:— _ , , ~ . , „
“94 Enua Ceanslagh, son of Labhradh, marned Conai g
(lived circa a » 360), had eiefat sons. The first. Feidhli-
midh, was ancestor of the Co. Wexford O Dowlings and
O’Murphys, The second, Enchn, died without issue.
“95 Crimthann, the third son, was King of Leinster 40
years ; he married Princess Meil, was baptised by St. i’ .trie
at Rath Oily in his old age, and was slain a.d. 484. He had
a “ 96 Nathach, who was King of Leinster 10 years ; he
was baptised by St. Patric in his infancy. He was foully
murdered. His eldest son was ,
“97 Eoghan Oaocn, whose youngest son, Fergus, was the
ancestor of O Rian, of Co. Tipperary. [ Which ? Editor B.]
“98 Sillan was Eoghan’s eldest son. .
“99. Faelan was Sillan’s sou; was King o Leinster 9
years. , ,
“ 100. Faolchu was Faelan s son.
«• ioi. Oncu,son of Fa fichu, lived circa a.d. 721.
“ 102. Rugalach, son of Oncu.
« 103. Aodh, son of Rugalach; his youngest son, I lann,
was slain at Allen A.D. 7,22.
“ 104 Diarmii, his eldest son, was King of Leinster.
“105. Cairhre, his son; slain ad. 876.
“ 106 Cineath, son of Cairbre; slam a.d. 933 by the Danes
of Luc Carman (Waterford); he was King of Leinster for 13
YB “ r io7 Cellach, hi 3 second son; slain in A.D. 945 ; the
issue of the eldest son became extinct in the second genera-
tl°°ioB. Donal, his son, King of Leinster for 9 years; slain
A '°io9 4 ’Diarmid, his son, King of Leinster for 14 years ;
it/.'Donald Maol na-nißo, his son, King of Leinster for
9 Diarmaid.'hisson! slain Feb. 23,1072, at Odhba, near
Navan • he married Dearlahforgal, grand-daughter of Brian
Roru ’ she died 1080. . , .
“ 112 Murcha (' muirchu, Irish, meaning a sea-hound, i.e„
a sea-warrior) his son: was the 50th King of Lunster; in-
vaded the Isle of Man in 1060. He was slam in Dublin Dec. 3,
1070 From this man the MacMurroglw are descended.
Morogh, his son. _ . ~,A O
‘>ll4 Morogh-na-moir, his son died by violence a.d. Hyo.
“115 Donagh * Roghmhar,’ a quo, Murphy, ‘Roghmhar,
h “ 116-' Morrogh, his son, had two sonß, Donch na Coilee
*““117 Dermond ‘Muimneach,’ who was the first of the
'family who settled in Co. Cork, to escape ttie tyranny and
rtimder of the Anglo Normans This Dermod O Moroehn ’
was father of Donogh, father of Donal, father of Dermona,
’father of D onogh, living in the 15th century, from him sprang
■the thirty septs of this family in Munster, and, had time per-
mittSlT would continue the ‘catena’ down to John
'O'Murphy, the defender of Dunbeig Castle, a.d >1641 and
from him to the present pious and learned pastor ofKilbrit-
one fide, and on the other from the same Dermod,
fhlnnvh the Murphys of Rerour, to the Bishop of Hobart of
Tasmania, and theMurphys of Mount Pleasant, near Ban-
don I learn these two races unite in the person of Professor
of St Finn Barr’s Seminary, Cork, who gave a
?DMhnen y of native talent in Fane Beecher’s English colony
nf'Randon Bridge a short time ago.
strange how this colony, planted on soil torn from
'O'Mahoney and fostered by alien p ejudice, should even
tuato become more Irish than the Irish themselves and now
under the paternal guidance of a churchman of the Hy
race the Very Rev. Canon Denis MacSwmey, emerge
from the°perio(l of slavish, imbecile, grovelling dependence,
'arndnow stand upright iu the light of God's day as men.”
From this catalogue it will be observed that the
ancestors of the Rev. MacSwiney and Professor
G’Murphy and a lob of assorted Murphys near
Bandon had rather a bad time of it on earth.
Nearly every man Jack of them was slain, and a
hundred to one those of them who weren’t
slain were slewed, and hardly one of them
owned a name that a man could pro-
nounce without taking his clothes off to get air,
and they died in places that sound like the yell a
goat gives when he is hit in the eye by a very bad
egg. We presume the list is put in with a view
to doing the agreeable to MacSwiney, but we
really think in that case Djnald Maol na-mBo
might have been left out. An ancestor who spelt
his final name with a small “ n,” and then put a big
“ B” in the centre, is no credit to anybody, and
if he could pronounce such a syllable as “mBo”
even when he was alive his mouth must have been
an awful shape, Begorra 1 Hurroosh !
* * * *
In Victoria there lived, a few years ago,
two neighbouring squatters, known to the
fraternity of sundowners as Dickey the Lamb, and
Black Anderson. The bush Bohemian is much
given to labellinghi3 patrons with such sobriquets,
which are meant to convey a rough estimate of
the character of the squatters who bear them,
Dickey the Lamb was regarded by all wayfarers as
an amiable gentleman of sleek appearance and
pious proclivities, who never hunted a casual
visitor away from his homestead with bad
language and a stockwhip, and who, though re-
markably close, might be cajoled out of a pannikin
of damper-dust, short measure, if the solicitor
quoted scripture pretty freely, and comported
himself with piety. Black Anderson, on the con-
trary, was a bold, harsh, beady-eyed man, of
swarthy sinister aspect, who never saw a sun-
downer without endeavouring J to curse him off
the face of the earth, or letting an ugly dog out
at him. Mr. Anderson's politics were known to
most of the footpads who passed that way, and
they seldom whistled him up, but usually bore off
to the East. But one soft summer’s eve, a weary
and perhaps “tangled” stranger, misled by direc-
tions, struck the homestead of Mr. Anderson,
and, thinking he was addressing Dickey the
Lamb, endeavoured to “ touch him ” for the usual
donation of flour, and tea, and tough old
mutton. “ He that giveth to the poor lendeth
to the Lord,” said the pilgrim with the
THE N.S.W. RABBIT QUESTION SOLVED.
infatuated self-confidence of a man who plays a
big trump. “Doss he ?" was the curt response.
“Yes; and as the Psalmist says, ‘I have been!
young, and now am old ” “ And d
dirty as well,” interposed the land-owner, and the
plaintiff began to feel staggered, but he thought,
he would try once more. “ Cast thy bread upon j
the waters ” he began, but he got no further, j
“I’ll cist you over the fence, you canting, un- ■
washed thief,” roared the squatter, and instantly
a procession of two started for the gate, the sun-
downer a little in front, and his enemy close
behind and kicking him in the back to make him
travel. He was over in the quickest time on
record, and then the two men regarded each other
for a moment with the bars between them, till at
last the dazed and dusty wanderer, speaking from
the recesses of his full heart, murmured, “ Snakes
and sawdust, what a saint!” And with that he
picked up his swag, and solemnly backed away.
Of the six judges on the Victorian Supreme
Court Bench only two —Higinbotham and Ker-
ferd—have been politicians. Of the six judges on
the N.S.W. Supreme Court Bench all have been
in Parliamen t— four in the popular Chamber, and
two in the nominee House.
John Austin, of Barwon Park (Vic.), was
the first to acclimatise the wild rabbit. The Duke
of Edinburgh spent a day at Austin WarreD,
when the bunnie s were slaughtered in hundreds.
As the Dutch erected a statue to the man who
first salted fish in tubs, so should a monument be
raised to Austin for having established that most
thriving industry, rabbiting.
When the j ury was being empannelled in
the celebrated divorce case of Bishop v. Bishop, in
Melbourne, Louis Gerschel, the well-known Hebrew
German merchant, was called and was allowed to
take his seat unchallenged. “ Gerschel will never
agree with the rest,” said an astute attorney’s
clerk. After a trial of some weeks’ duration, the
jury found an ll-12ths verjict for the plaintiff.
Mr. Gerschel dissented.
POLITICAL
POINTS
At Ashborton (N.Z.) election they so
pelted the Freetrade candidate with hen-fruit and
flour that he looked like a walking omelette.
The Lithgow Boy Politician advises every-
body to study politics. So do we. It is time the
rest of the population had a show.
The revenue from spirits increased by
£22,000 in N.S.W. last quarter. People mu3t
get rid of their grief in a Freetrade country,
somehow.
The German civilisers of Samoa sell guns
to the natives at a profit of 600 per cent. No
wonder they couldn’t stand Malietoa’s “weak-
ness " any longer.
Mr. Alfred Allen, M.P., asserts that one
good thing about him is that his political prin-
ciples will never be purchased. The same might
be said of Alfred’s little book of “ pomes.”
The butcher’s bill of England’s latest Bur-
mese war tots up 35 officers and 624 British soldiers
ki lel, besides 54 wounded and 125 invalided
officers, and 111 wounded, and 1592 invalided
soldiers.
We hear it is likely that a motion will be
submitted in the N.S.W. Assembly declaring
vacant the seat of Mr. Daniel O'Connor. Now sup-
pose they were to submit a motion declaring his
head vacant ?
The Sydney D.T. had, the other day, a
paragraph headed “Death from Burns,” We
read it through and were surprised to find that it
did not in any way refer to the fiscal condition of
New South Wales.
Subscribers to the Imperial Institute Fund
will be glad to hear that the press is to be kept in
ignorance of all figures in connection with the
frost-bitten show. The officials will eDj oy a grand
scramble in the dark.
A member of the Victorian Assembly de-
clared, a few nights ago, that “a man who was
born a liar could not speak the truth.” That
however, is no obstacle to his being a member of
the Victorian Parliament.
The leader of the Conservative party,
according to Mr. Gillies, ought to be a man of
good social position and—a long pocket. That’s
all. What an admirable Conservative leader
Kiog Herod would have made!
“Hi never saw such a man as Young,”
said Premier Parkes the other day of his protege,
the N.S W. Speaker—“ whenever I rise in the
’Ouse to try and get ’im hout of a difficulty, ’e
halways rules me hout of horder.”
Ex-Speaker Lalor having resigned his seat
for Grant, held uninterruptedly by him for a
quarter of a century, Mr. Stutt (licensed vic-
tualler) and Mr. Miram3 (teetotal local-optionist)
are candidates for the vacancy. As Bacchus
Marsh is the principal centre of the constituency,
Mirams ought to be nowhere.
Two ex-Speakers of the Victorian Assem-
bly are just now in Sydney—Peter Lalor, who is
lamentably ill, and Sir Francis Murphy (Vic
toria’s first]Speaker), who is old and gouty. Sir
Francis is by profession a doctor of medicine, and
has made heaps of money as a squatter. His
father was Governor of Cork Gaol.
The only part of the N.S.W. Colonial
Secretary’s office which is at all the worse for
wear is the coat-of-arms over the Macquarie-street
entrance. The grand old insignia of England s
greatness is—in marvellous contrast with the rest
of the building—covered with bright-green moss.
A big allegory here sticks out a mile.
The Anti-Chinese movement proceeds
under difficulties at Bundaberg (Q ) The other
day, Selby, Freethought lecturer, &c.,was engaged
to deliver an oration on the subject of the yellow
paralyser, and the local bellman was instructed to
ring up the denizens of the one-horse city and in-
vite then! to attend. But it chanced that that
humble necessary official was a Salvationist of
the most hallelujah description, and he declined
to interfere in the matter unless Selby could bring
forward satisfactory proof that he was saved.
Selby, unhappily, wasn’t saved, by a whole jugfull,
and didn’t expect to be, and on learning this the
holiness man resigned his commission and went
home. A Binful bellman will ba engaged next
time.
It is stated in the papers that the “ men
in the S.M. Herald office are almost unanimous
in wanting a public-house opened for certain hours
on Sundays,” and that they “desire a speoial
public-house to be kept open every night between
11 and 12 o’clock” for their own particular benefit.
Why don’t the Herald people follow the example
of the Melbourne Argus and get a pub. of their
own in the establishment ? But who’d have
thought that alcohol was so popular in the
Herald office ? Can it ba that there's anything
in the n «nce of the paper itself ? The Melbourne
Herald staff are the main support of the Queen’s
Head and the Royal Oak A fraction of the cus-
tom goes now to the Belle Yue since the office was
removed to Little Collins-street, but then S, V 1
Winter’s room looks direct into the bar of that
pub,, and with the aid of a powerful field-glass he
can see whether a reporter is having soda-straight
or a long beer.
Evening News, in a leader on “ Neces-
sary Reforms,” alludes to Jack Haynes as an
4 * ultra-democrat ”:
A correspondent to
the Cobar and Louth
Herald proposes to deal
summarily with the em-
ployers of Chinese, and
suggests that at the next
general election no candi-
date for theN.S. W, Legis-
lature shall rcoeive the
support of the electors
unless prepared to pledge
himself, if returned, to
bring forward a measure,
or support such measure
if brought forward, com-
pelling all employers of
Chinese or coloured lab!
our to pay a tax of £lO
per head per a mum on
each Chinese they may
employ, the procesds of
such tax to go to the con-
solidated revenue. Hear’!
hear.
As the N.S.W. Min-
is* ers were travelling in
the bush lately, the atten-
tion of the Postmaster-
General was repeatedly
drawn to the anomalous
kind of letter-boxes which
occurred on the roadside
as they drove along.
These boxes varied from
a sizeable tank to a bis-
cuit-tin nailed to a, post
But when they dwindled
down to a sardine-tin
strung on a sapling,
Premier Parke s, with a
loud guffaw, cried : “I
say, Roberts, I’ll have to
report you if you don’t
look after your country
offices better than this.”
Which remark of the
Premier’s, be it said,
passes in the back-blocks
for a bon mot,
“G. Davis, Pig-sticker,” has been going
for the B.P. in the columns of the Lithgow
(N.S.W.) Enterprise, and says, inter alia:—“l
must say, in my humble opinion, that Mr. Caul]
field understands about as much of Protection or
Freetrade policy as the pig I stuck last Friday
understands about the working of an 81-ton gun.”
The simile is rather Mud J. Haynesian.
Mr. Ellis, one of the Australian Cobdenite
gods, must, after all, be a curious brand of a free-
trader. At a recent meeting called for the pur-
pose of forming a Newcastle branch of the Free-
trade Association, he stated that the sugar-trade
in the colony of N.S. W had grown up under a ss.
per ton duty, and that if this duty were rescinded
it would mean inevitable ruin to the industry.
He likewise made a statement to the effect that
Arnott’s biscuit factory had managed to keep
that fiscally afloat with a 1 Jd. duty on biscuits, and
to take this duty off would be to cripple the busi]
ness—in fact when he heard that Treasurer Burns t
contemplated taking it off, he went to see him
about it. As a matter of fact when the duty on
biscuits was increased in N S.W., Swallow and
Ariel!, of Melbourne, found that it would pay to
establish a factory at Sydney, and made prepara-
tions accordingly, but when the duty was re-
scinded they found it impossible to compete
against outside makers, so they now make all
their biscuits in Melbourne, where they get the
benefit of protection, and export them to N.S.W.
The Argus says that “ Mr. Gaunson
points to himself as a proof that the liberal use of
the rod in childhood does not effect its purpose.”
Editor Haddon remarks, “ This is a melancholy
instance of vice triumphing over the birch.”
Ignatius Feigl, the printer of the Mel-
bourne Herald, is something of a celebrity. He
was born in Bohemia, and the experiences of a
long and busy life include the printing of the first
copy of the Melbourne Age, which came into
existence in 1854, and, after 20 years’ hard strug-
gling, went ahead like wildfire and made the for-
tunes of its proprietary. Instead of “grafting”
away at leading articles, as Ebenezer had to do,
David Syme makes the grand tour, imports choice
specimens of cattle, and sells one of his country
seats to the Governor. Feigl is reputed to be
worth a cent or two.
Jumping Moses! what a mis-flt —
Haynes an “ ultra democrat” !
Though for many things he is fit,
We must quite object to that I
Tell us, is it democratic,
Is it red-re publican,
To embrace the acrobatic
Foolery of the Orangeman ?
What d’ye call it when we ravage
Other people’s “ ancient faith,”
As the self-called “ Denom. Savage”
When he saw the Orange wraith ?
Do you call it ‘' democratic
Is it “ultra,” when he barks,
This “discreetly-changed” fanatic,
In his servile praise of Parkes ?


Bennett’s Baby-Market—A Phase of Sydney Civilisation.
WANTED, kind lady to ADOPT BABY girl
16 months old, without money.
JBurfcen-st— Evening News advt
A MARRIED woman will ADOPT a BABY,
any age, premium, £l2 down. Mrs. ’
Marrickville P.O.— Evening News advt
KIND Person wishes to adopt Baby, no objec-
tion to age. £2O premium. ——, New-
town Post office.— Evening News advt.
WANTED, kind PERSON to ADOPT an inv
fant from birth. Premium, £2O. Address,
, William-st. P.O.— Evening News advt


Professional Jealousy.
\f\J\SZ-
I5(J0 IS ifV SVffictzrtj
FOj? Af/ A
Ft£S HArt I
n u sT~ n/\K£ <Jj> Ift
LosS By Sptc/AL
i
JhjlS isrfc lf(/LC
*1? fopcSf' o /
'I N°r pe/f^iTrtf
To po LL° o\lr My
Professi °r( ft/ n -* y /*l
'jerr./j ' J
p/\iO oi/p of
, p«//v D S .
My ixJi-e <loc s
fJt °fc\


Society
anxious to be present at what rumour had stated
was to be a ball befitting ths Jubilee of Her
Majesty.” What was a “ Cinderella ”to a lady
like this? What man was ever known to propose or
even give indications of being mildly interested in
his partner at a liqnorless “ Cinderella ? ” Nobody
that we ever heard of. You might as well expect
a man to get “ elevated” on toast-water. No —
the waltz, the maddening waltz, the lights, the
perfume, the glitter, the quiet places in a corner—
these are the things which a widow with two uii-
married daughters wants and will have—or raise
Pandemonium in the papers if she doesn’t get
them. You may guess by this what a number of
people have been in a white fury ever since the
Mayor’s sandwich and lemonade “ Cinderella ”
came off.
* * *
Benjamin succeeds Cain as Mayor of Mel-
bourne. It is earnestly desired that the new mam
when he invites h's fellow-citizents to the festive
“ hop,” won’t request a favoured forty to “ seorf ”
the best vittles in a private room. To keep the
be3t jelly for the cream is blank mange-y.
• * *
We have received from what appears to
be a reliable source an explanation of the reasons
which induced Mayor Cain, of Melbourne, on the
occasion of his late bill, to regale a few swagger
guests on the fat of the land in an upper room,
while the bulk of the visitors were left to batten
on slabs of duff and get stomach-ache in the re-
mote down below. Our correspondent points out
that many mayors use a fork for a toothpick and
a napkin for a handkerchief, and that many of
Mayor Cain’s friends might possibly be affected
the same way, in which case he may have wished
to conceal their bad manners. In support of this
theory he sends us a napkin which he picked up
in the aforementioned supper-room, and which
bears the unmistakable print of a naked human
no3e. Also he forwards a footprint executed in
There was a flower-show ini New Zealand
some considerable time ago, and the local Gover-
nor was there along with his wife, and one of f he
aides-de-camp was there, too, poor beggar, and he
looked as if he wa« er.j oy ing himself thoroughly. The
Governor’s lady was presented with another bunch
of vegetables about once a minute, and she flip-
pantly passed them over to the miserable aide to
carry, till he seemed to be light porter to a
Chinese garden, and as he also bore the lady s
shawl and one or two other fixings, his arms were
stretched to their utmost capacity, which was
anthropoir orphically immense. His hat was
tipped on one side, too, and as he couldn’t spare a
hand he had to straighten it surreptitiously
against the wall, and he was covered with per-
spiration, and he wanted—oh !so badly—to blow
his nose, but he couldn’t reach it without dropping
all the verdure, and there was no girl about whom
he could rely upon to blow it for him, Nobody
took the least notice of his misery, except our-
selves, The Governor stalked along and didn't
carry anything, even brains, and his lady con-
tinued to load up with flowers and pass them to
her tottering stipendiary follower, till they were
heaped up higher than his head, and he would
have liked to strike and say that he wouldn’t
hump any more adjective grass, but the poor
garden coster’s donkey daren’t—it was more than
his place was worth. Barring the calve 3, he
might as well have been a fluuKey, and yet hun-
dreds of young British aristocrats rush for a billet
as private secretary and dog-washer to a colonial
Governor, and seem to regard it as an enviable
position. But perhaps they don’t anticipate hav-
ing to go out in a broiling sun and buy the carrots
for the gubernatorial dinner, to say nothing of
having to set the gubernatorial hen, and take the
lord’s old dress suit to be dyed. If they saw these
things ahead, aides-de-camp would probably be-
come scarce.
* * *
This stately paragraph comes to us from
Sydney University. Gloom has settled with
leaden wings on a stately hash houEe in Darling-
hurst. She was a blonde angel with blue eyes
and a hay-band scalp-lock, and he was a logger
of high degree with a beautiful duck of a mous-
tache, and a diamond breast-pin. She cultivated
several of the more congenial virtues and a taste
for patchouli. He was renowned for the cut of
his nether garments and his most characteri flic
quality was billiards, She had a husband, a com-
mercial traveller, away on a tour to the remotest
parts of Northern Queensland, andhe had a wife—in
England. In the absence of her parson-bestowed
spouse she gradually evolved a partiality for
chewing the radiant hasher's eyebrow, and de-
veloped an undue fondness for the encirclement of
her waist by his humerus, ulna ard radius, the
while his jewel-adorned phalanges dallied in child-
like playfulness with her burnished flaxen curls.
’Twas sweet to press her throbbing spheroid
against his manly thorax and to listen to the
rhythm of a heart that beat for her. For hours
would she sit upon his tweed-clad femur, her arm s
about his vertebral atlas, and her cheek against
his malar-bone, while the music of dulcet and
surreptitious osculation would occasionally fol-
low the mellifluous impact of four lips with but a
single thought—and that one yum-yum ! She
had five children, a dyspeptic aunt, a mother-in-
law afflicted with a chronic catarrh, a “slavey
subject to epileptic fits, a tar-brush-plum aged
parrot given to obscenity, four white mice in a
broken-down cage, a cat which had three days
previously added six lives to the sum of the
world’s quivering protoplasm, an irascible poodle
blind in tae off-eye, a lethargic tortoise, three
bantams, a canary i hat couldn t sing, and a mon-
key with an amputated tail. Tne lover urged the
blooming girl to fly—and sne fled, ail of her. lhe
entire caravan chartered an ocean liner, and made
tracks for another and, perhaps, a better clime.
The excoriated and exacerbated husband—stript
of his skin of worldly gear, and driven by his loss
into a state of chronic savagery—wrote a bitter
letter to the abductor of his menagerie, and sug-
gested that the levauter might have waited until
his return and taken him along also, to feed the nm-
mals. The conscience-smitten seducer wrote back,
and in a letter f ull of contrition and remorse, acknow-
ledged that he was premature in his flight. He
ought to have waited and taken the husband, and
he begged forgiveness for the oversight,
• * *
The late Mayor’s ball in Melbourne was
a frost. Two thousand invitations were issued,
and the parties who received ih=m fluttered
themselves iu' o a high fever over what they were
going to wear and how they were going to get it
Brooches, bracelets, neck'acss, earrings, andrin?s
were taken out of pawn with great sacrifice and
the prosp set of hash dinners for a month af er-
wa-ds by some of them ; and others incurred ex-
penses’ for which they will not forgive Mayor Cain
for many a long day. What was the result of it
all? W'e burn with shame (for Mayor Cain) to
eay merely a “ small and t arly,” or what tney call
a ‘•Cinderella” dance —a “hop” of the most
commonplace and unpretentious description. And
—as if this were not enough insult— ‘ the refresh-
ments” (wa quote from a lefler written by one of
the angry guests to the Age) “ were of the stalest,
and consequently of the heaviest description ; and
the sandwiches were so stale that the butterle3s
bread of which they were composed refused, from
very dryness, to adhere to the small particle of
fat placed between. But ” (continues the
writer with indignant pathos) “to add insult to
injury the Mayor and Mayoress, with some of
the councillors and their friends, were holding
high revel in the Mayor’s room over one of the
best banquets ever prepared.” Shocking, wasn’t
it« But what must it have been to the writer of
the letter referred to ? She says :lam a widow
with two unmarried daughters (a naive confession
to say the least of it), both of whom were most
A TOUGH CONTRACT.
COUNTRY CAVALRYMAN: “HOW MUCH’LL YE TAKE TO SHAVE OFF ALL,
BARRIN’ THE MOUSTACHE?”
CITY BARBER: “TWO AND SIX.”
C. C.: “I’LL GIVE YOU A BOB.”
C. B.: “BETTER GO AND DO IT YERSELF, AT YER OWN SHOP.”
blancmange, from which it is evident that some
one bad been standing on the table. Under these
circumstances we withdraw any remarks we may
have given way to about the exclusion of the
Mayor’s guests from that supper. Probably they
were kept out for their own good.
Another instance of the mistake made in
acclimatising that noxious animal—the fox. A
certain “ Lady Fox ” has resigned her seat on the
ccmmitteeof the Auckland (N.Z.) Kindergarten be-
cause the committee had accepted the aid of a dra-
matic club performance. “ After considerable dis-
cussion it was decided to decline the proffered assis-
tance, as the Kindergarten, being a Christian insti-
tution, cannot recognise theatrical performances.”
So the she-fox withdrew her resignation, and the
Christian committee breathe again,
* * *
The duties of a N.S. Wales M.L A. are
pretty multifarious. He has not only to keep his
eye on local culverts, bridges, fences, ditches. &e.,
but he is expected to take delivery of diseased
constituents sent to his care, and see them safely
in the hospital, and sometimes he has to find
wives for unmarried voters who feel lonely. Not
very long ago an agricultural party from the out-
side districts dropped in on his member (an
auctioneer) in Sydney, and asked him to get him
a partner for life, and then the member and the
agricultural party tore round together for an hour
or two till they found a girl who was built that
way. It took exactly 13 hours to settle up the
whole matter, and the young man hasn’t been
heard from since. It is presumed he is happy—in
the tomb.
♦ * *
At La Perouse, Sydney, there lives a black
who goes by the exalted and sacred name of
“The G-übnor.” The local police lately arrested
a white woman living in the canlp ; when taken
into custody she was in the act of frying sausages
for this native big bug. Here is a grand example
for her Potts Point sisters : unable to soar high
enough to do homage to a white governor, her
reverence for the title causes her to fall back on
serving a black one.
• # *
Thing of beauty clipped from the Wash-
ington special of the Baltimore American :
“ Some time ago an artists’ club of 600 members at SydnaA
Australia, resolved to pay Mrs. Cleveland the very pretoy
compliment of sending her an elegant painting illustrative
of Australian rcenery. One of the members, Mr A. Robert
Pullin, was commissioned to come to Washington and pre-,
sent Mrs. Cleveland with the painting. Mr. Pullin recently
arrived at Washington, and at once addressed a courteous
note to the President, explaining the object of his visit and
asking him to accept the painting for Mrs Cleveland The
artist, with great good taste, referred to the warm feeling
which his people felt towards the United States, and ex-
pressed the hope that the bond of friendship should ever re-
main firmly cemented between the two countries. He waited
an entire week without receiving any recognition wh tever,
when he finally received a very formal letter from the Presi-
dent declinirgto accept the painting (Grover had probably
seen it —Ed. b. | Mr. Pullin was greatly chagrined, and ad-
dressed a second letter to the President, expressing his mor-
tification that an act which was meant to show such respect
and admiration should be so indifferently received, and
stating that his countrymen could not help feeling the in-
dignity that had been put upon them This letter has never
been answered, nor has Mr. Pullin received any recognition
from the White House whatever.”
Who is Mr. A. Robert Pullin ? Well, Mr. A.
Robert Pullin is a genial and much-respected gen-
tleman who when in Sydney was both an artist
and a sign-writer. As a sign-writer he ran a
place in Market-street which he called Alfredo
House ; as an art-teacher he occupied rooms above
Grocer Kidman’s, where he was professionally
known as Roberto A. PulUn. Like most brilliant
men, he had his own little peculiarities. We don’t
know whether Mr. Pu'lin required to feel on his
massive forehead the warm breath of the divine
afflatus ere he would proceed to execute one of
those gorgeous pieces of trade decoration which
when sported by the baker on this side of the
street used to make the rival baker on the
other side sit up and snort ; but we do re-
member that whea studying at a certain life-class
years ago he would emphatically refuse to touch
canvas for a whole evening unless he felt himsdf
prompted to the effort by that feeling of inspira-
tion which alone has ever impelled men to the
loftiest flights of genius. None of the “ 600
artis's ” of Sydney seem to know anything about
the “ elegant painting ” of whi :h Roberto Pullin
was the fitting bearer, hut there is a grim suspi-
cion that a certain personage whose name, like
that of A. Roberto Pullin, is in three pieces,
knows something about it. However, this latter
supposition may be foundationless, and it
may also be that Grover Cleveland, though
he looks gross and puffy enough to be an
amateur of art of the sign-writing order, conceals
beneath his well fed and unspiritual exterior
artistic sympathies which would have
him to the constant companionship of a Sanzto or
a Giotto. And, for another thing, perhaps the
name of the Roberto A. Pullin who was known
to the alleged art world of Sydney, has on the pre-
sent occasion been fraudulently used by some de-
signing and unauthorised person. It is however
certain that the bearer of the signboard sent to
Murka as a token of good will really did come
from Sydney ; the use of the dear old gag about
“cementing the bonds of friendship between the
two peoples ” incontestably proves that the envoy
extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary of the
600 Sydney artists, whoever he was, had sat at
the feet of Consul G riffin and Plain Bill on many a
Fourth of July at Botany. We now leave the
matter in the hands of Plain William, that he
may decide whether the gross insult hereinbefore
set forth shall not be washed out in Yankee blood,
* * *
There is good foundation for the allega-
tions —first made pub’.ic by The Bulletin— in re
Sydney private bars, but nevertheless a deal of
unnecessary fu ; s is being made as to the
attractiveness of these institutions by the
cold-water Pharisees of the community. A
Bulletin scribe visited some private bars—
a good many private bars, in fact —the other
night. In one of them a faded, weary, sorrow-
stained little drab glared at him with a wall-eye,
and snarled at him with a decayed buck-tooth,
and only relented when he turned to go because
she said it was so lonely, nobody had been in dur-
ing the evening —not even a cardinal. In another
bar an unkempt female tried to smile, but her jaw
was so unused to the operation that she dropped
her false teeth on the floor, and her glasaeye
tumbled out when she stooped to pick them up.
Everything was everywhere the same—salt, sand,
and sea-marsh. Even the unvarying old bottle of
“ three-star” fusel-oil was the same, and seemed
to have followed Tiie Bulletin’s scribe round to
“fix” him. Instead of festive houris, he saw
jaded, scraggy, high-shouldered women, whose
cheeks were red with standard-paint, and whose
hair had been thieved from dead paupers. There
fs little romance in the Sydney private-bar.
* • *
Wc read in the Melbourne papers that
Mr. J. W. Peirce, member for West Melbourne
in the Victorian Legislature, recently presided
over a meeting of the Master-Hairdressers’ Asso-
ciation, The hon. gentleman is entitled to—and
will probably receive—the thanks of posterity for
being the first man in Melbourne to introduce the
admirable sanitary institution of “ a clean towel
for each threepenny shave.” This legend was
posted on the shop formerly kept by Mr. Peirce
in Elizabeth-street, opposite the Post Office, and
probably marked the first milestone on a road
which has already led him to the City Council and
the Legislative Assembly, and may yet land him
Heaven knows where. Mr. Peirce was ex-
tremely affable to his old associates, and was
loudly cheered when he remarked that he never
looked at “Mr. Speaker’s 'ead without thinking
of the old profession.”
* *
Space prohibits prolixity, so we simply
state that a pretty well-known barmaid is about
to sue a pretty well known Pott’s Point swell for
breach of promise—damages, two thou. His epis-
tolary gush used to generally start, ‘' My future
darling little wife.”
* •
Two real live Melbourne ‘ 1 baronetesaesa "
—Lady Clarke and Lady Nicholson—last week
presented their delighted lords with additions to
the population.
* * *
The Mayoress of Sydney’s young people’s
ball at the Exhibition Building laßt week brought
about 1500 guests together, a considerable number
of whom were not so aggravaticgly youDg as
might have been expected Very few, however,
were over 55, and quite a number didn’t look more
than 10. Tne building was decorated with
greenery, some of which was slightiy yallery, and
fairy lights, and the effect was picturesque in the
extreme. Want of space preveutsus dealing with
the congenial subject of the refreshments, and a
lot of select gush about the ladies’ dresses and the
music is omitted for the same reason.
* * *
H.M.S. Nelson is expected in Melbourne
“ before the 9th of November.” Cup day again.
Ex-Chief Justice Sta.well, of Victoria, who
visited Sydney not long ago, once presided at the
Beech won h Assiz es, On the morning after, as
he stood in the bar room of the hotel awaiting the
coach, he was accus ed by a bushman who invited
him to liquor. Sir William politely declined on
ihe score chat; he never drank intoxicants. But
bushy persisted, and to get rid of nim che judge
cons-eated to have a bottle of seda-water.
“ Have what you blooming well like you gave
my old woman twelve months yesterday and she
d well deserved it,” remarked the grateful
yokel.
* # *
It is.also related that ex- Chief J ustice Stawell,
when at the Bar, was once defending a prisoner in
the Criminal Court on some charge or other. The
accused was a wild busbman, who appeared in
the dock with hair unkempt, a grizzly overgrown
beard, Crimean shirt, no vest or collar, and with
a scowl on his ill-looking countenance. He leant
over the dock with his elbows stretched out.
“ Look at him, gentleman,” said the learned
counsel for the defence, “ are you going to judge
of that man’s acts by the same lofty standard that
you would apply to a civilised and educated man ?
What is he, gentlemen, but a mere wild beast,
irresponsible for his deeds ? ” The prisoner, who
had been quietly chewing a lump of tobacco, and
looking as if he didn't care a brass farthing for
the whole proceedings, lazily pulled up his elbows,
and exclaimed : “ Who do you call a wild beast?
Mind what you’re talkin’ about! ” The eloquent
Stawell seemed a bit flabbergasted at this protest
from hi 3 client, and spoke more re3pectfnl-like of
him durieg the rest of his oration.
* * *
“ Viator ” wrote in a recent S.M. Herald
a lot of marmaladey nonsense about Australian
aborigines, and in one place spoke pathetically
about their “gentle loves ” This is delicious I Fancy
the gentle love of the romantic aboriginal Romeo
sneaking with erotic tread into some camp of a
hostile tribe while the swart Capulets are locked
fast in the ebony embraces of sleep. He raises
bis love-directed waddy and strikes his dusky
Juliet an amorous blow on the skull, and then
drags her away to the home his love has built for
her. The picture is indeed a moving one.
* * #
There is a story told in Melbourne n
which a well-known aged barrister and literary
man of rather pompous style, and (he late Marcu
Clarke are the heroes. It was when Marcus was
attached to the Arous, 20 years ago, and had no
more spare cash than his even then venerable
We do not recommend the hiding of boots as a means to
retain at home after du'k the male parent or the noble son,
we meter the making of home charming. Provide go id
moked food served un on nice crockery and glws, and offer
rnery inducement to satisfy the o ner-man 'then see that
e 7 e ng or sitting room is attractive, if at all dark use
Ja.fl g mirrored vases. Other little things will suggest
IkimLTves ™ e only suggest that the China and Glassware is
fist hought Tt Bbly Bros., 402 and 404 Georg.,street. '
FRBCKLES.—These unsightly subeutaneous discolora-
tions are of two kinds—the “ Summer” or temporary freckles
(Ephelis) and the permanent variety (Lentigol The former
U generally due to a darkening of the epidermis in small
oval catches (“Summer Freckles”), or extending over a
larger surface (“Tan or Sunburn”), while permanent
Freckles (or Lentigo) are deeper seated, and remain even
after the epidermis is completely removed. Clements
Frecklebane is an infallible cure, and will eradicate the
worst case of Freckles without injuring the skin or com-
plexion. Sold bv all chemists. Whelesal ■, F. M Clxments
41 King street Newtown.*
Ladies would do well to attend tbe great sale of the season
now on at the London and Pari* Outfitting Establishment
Mrs. MoOathi*. 86 and 00 King-street.*
Claremont, Darlinghurst Road, Sydney,—A Private Medi-
cal and Surgical Home, established by Dr. Tarrant, for the
r eception and systematic treatment of patients of both sexes
The residents, who are provided with separate bedroomSi
derive the great advantages of a constant med'cil super-
vision with the care and attention of a trained nursing staff.
For particular apply to the lady Superintenden\*


friend. One day Clarke invited the old man to
lunch—expecting it would be a matter of half-a-
crown apiece. The ancient gentleman, however,
who had flitted round London when George IV.
was King, and liked to liv- np to dear old times
where er he got the chance ordered the most
delicate and expensive things in the menu, to
Marcus’s intense embarrassment, and when the
reckoning came, the little entertainment cost poor
Clarke a sovereign—perhaps the last he possessed.
But the point of the joke is that later in the day
the stately old gentleman was bemoaning his want
of ample funds to a friend at Buschmann’s wine-
shop in Bourke.-street and plaintively confessed,
“ Why, I'm even indebted for lunch to-day to that
boy, Clarke !”
* * *
An anonymous scientist announces in the
Age that if the girls go on studying as they do
the result will be universal feminine baldness.
The point of the thing is lhat the dear old babe of
a scientist doesn’t know that the dear girls are
pretty ba’d already. When a girl sends word
that she is indisposed and can’t coma to a party,'
it means, in nine cases out of ten, that she has
mislaid her hair, or else ihe cat has gone away
with it. Why, we remember once, years ago,
when we were shipwrecked, and by stupendous
exertions saved 17 young ladies from a watery
grave, 16 of them were bald, 'ihey hadn’t had
time to bring up their tresses when they rolled
out of their bunks and made for the deck, and the
odd one had her hair on sideways, so, as the posi-
tion seemed pretty desperate, we took it off her
and used it for lighting a fire. After that piease
don’t talk to us about hair.
* * *
A correspondent to an up-country paper
says “it was rumoured, that at the sale of Lord
(Lof tus’ effects Lord Cariugton purchased the plate
and presentation articles, and nobly made a gift
iof them to their former owner.” Is this “ taffy on
;.i,pole,” or a solid chunk of truth ?
* * *
The!late Dr. Bunce, of Ballarat, was fond
‘of i narrating a little experience he once had with
t® Bunga-ree savage. He was disturbed at mid-
night one ] night in winter by the furious knocking
<of an -excited clodhopper, who requested—nay,
demanded—the doctor's immediate attention to an
. urgent ,vqase at Warrenheip, an 11 miles’ drive.
(The.savage was so flabbergasted that the medico
< cojild not get an inkling of the trouble, but as this
happened.at a time in his career when a case was
a circumstance, the doctor mounted his chariot,
and followed in the wake of the spud-miner's go-
car. It was a dirty, dark night, and the medico’s
emotions were the reverse of pleasureable when
he discovered that he had been enticed 11
miles, through wind and sleet, to prescribe for a
tow headed, freckled youngster of seven years, sut-
ferring from a mild attack of measles. The savage
was reassured by the doctor’s Latin exclamations
and evident disgust, and, when the all-important
questionof fee wa3 broached, he waxed cheeky, and
said he hadn’t a blanked cent in the house. A few
warm remarks ensued, and it ended in the doctor
mounting his trap and driving off, as mad as a
hen when hawks are around. The night
was so dark and drear, however, that, after run-
ning into fences, banging up against trees, and
splashing into bog-holes for half-an hour, Lr.
Bunce was constrained to return to the humble
cot of his patient for a guide. The savage
came out in answer to his call, and when the case
was srated swore an oath or two, and said he
could not be kept from his bed for every blanked
fool. “But,’’ said the doctor, “I can’t find my
way !’’ “ Well,” replied the savage, with the air
of a man who is making a sacrifice, “ I'll drive ve
outer th' metal-road for half-a-sov., moneydown»
He got the half-sov., and the doctor refer prose
cuted the acquaintance further.
The old magicians who usef* to pra
round in Bagdad some 1300 yearj a go to
have all come to life again In the commas of the
Nooze. How is this for one day's advertisements:
QONSLTLT Prof. Faick, German Phrenologist, on Mental
Physical Capacity. Hours, afternoon and evening.
MADAME LIAR l\ —Advice, Is. Dreams explained by
letter, 12 penny stamps. Writing done.
M ADAME CLARICE —Advicegiven, speculation, business
or love matters.
MAD AM E TERRY, Phrenologist, Herbalist, advice to
travellers. Future, Is. Opposite Marshalls Brewery.
MADAME ROLL AND, the great Phrenologist and Clair
voyant, gives Honest Advice.
MADAME BOITVERIE, Phrenologist. Advice, la. Letters
written.
MADAME ST. JOHN. —Most reliable information. A
secret how to regain your lost lover.
Professor Fake—we presume that is how it is pro-
nounced—is ominous ; and Madame L-'art should
have remembered that in French a final “t”is
silent. The lady who gives advice to travellers
opposite a brewery is in a bad location, tco—she
might almost as well advertise, “ One remove
from the gaol.” We called on one of the above-
named seers once, though wild horses would not
drag the name out of us, and stated that we were
subject to being thrown out of hot.‘ls, and wanted
advice. A skinny, touzle-headed girl with bare
arms and traces of egg about her mouth, went
into a trance to consider the question, and the
woman who took the money gave her a shove be-
hind because she didn’t consider her fast enough.
Between them they came to the conclusion that it
would be haif-a-crown, and that we had better
call again. We gave the pair a bud half-sovereign,
and, taking the change, we lefc.
* * *
Scene : the Domain. Time : Sunday
night. Dramatis personce: A j ourneyman actor,
a "private” barmaid, and barmaid’s husband.
The J.A. and P.B. open the drama. Long dia-
logue between them consisting of gorgeous
gush chiefly supplied by the J A., who waltzes in
plenty of "quotes” from plays. Several pauses
occur which are filled up with " business,” said
"bus” consists g of osculatory experiments.
Suddenly barmaid’s husband enters on the scene
without any applause or introductory music.
Recognises his wife’s voice. Dances a furious and
extempore jig expressive of rage. Belches forth
some copious curses, goes for actor-fellow, hitting
him in the mouth and thereby loosening the five-
guinea set of manufactured molars morticed in
the J.A.’s gums. Hurried exit of J.A., leaving
his “bones” behind him on the swa d. Recrimi-
nations between barmaid and husband. They
exeunt. Epilogue. Amorous actor confined to
his room next Cay, and owing to impecuniosity
has to arrange with a friend to visit the "mot-
shkinshop” to raise funds for the purchase of a
hew set of grinders. Divorce Court imminent-
with the J.A. " starring ” as co respondent.
* * #
They sat together side by side on the old
horsehair sofa, which groaned beneath their
aggregate of 230 b. She was perched on the edge
of the cushion, and, as she swung her feet back-
wards and forwards, he asked her again if she
really loved him with the same tender affection
which filled his breast. Then rhe stopped swing-
ing, and big tea’s gathered in her ryes. "Love,”
she said slowly, “is perhaps too strong an ex-
pression, but oh ! Alfred, I will always be true to
you because your face reminds me so much of my
little dog, my p:or, lost Fido.” He concluded
that would do, and they were married shortly
afterwards, but he doesn’t remind her of her dog
so much now as he used to do.
• • *
It is stated on good authority that the
Baroness Burdett-Coutts has got ahead of her
Gracious Majesty in a matter of etiquette which
concerns the undressed condition of the upper
half of the human frame. According to Court
regulations all ladies who attend the Queen’s draw-
ing-rooms must do so with their clothes hauled
down as if they were escaping out of them, and
those who don't care to exhibit a sere and yeliow
back to the public are permitted to stay away.
The Baroness, however, objects to either alterna-
“HIS OLD FRIENDS.”
“Earl Deerhurst has arrived in England, and been cordially welcomed by his
old friends.”—N spaper Correspondence.
tive, so instead of publishing a bleak expense of
skin to amuse the Koyal baby, she clothe 3 herself
all over in flesh-coloured tights, which make her
shoulders look like the upper part of an artless
child of 17. The Queen has never yet discovered
the deception, but when she does the Baroness
will probably be remanded with orders to take
some more things off, and then come back peni-
tent and exhibit her shoulders in their natural
condition, while the cast-off skin coverings wi*l he
sacrificed as a burnt-offering.
* * •
The latB Lord Chelmsford—the lawyer, not
the military messer of Zulu land—was very stately
in presence and digoified in appearance. He was
accosted one day by a hurried stranger, who
clasped his hand and shook it warmly with “How
are you to-day, Mr. Smith 1 ” Lord C. draw him-
self up proudly, exclaiming : “ Sir! do I look like
a person named Smith?” Now had it been
another Lord C. , but no matter.
* * *
Romance in low life. In a letter written
on the morning of his execution, Israel Lipski,
who murdered Miriam Angel, in London, for the
sake of a few shillings, bequeathed “ the pawn-
ticket for his gold stud ” to his sweetheart’s
mother. The ruling passion strong in death.
* • #
“A Spinster,” writing in Sydney Echo,
counsels women who cannot get a husband they
care for, to take to nursing. In other words, if a
woman fails to hook a husband of her own let her
go and nurse another woman’s husband. Is that
it ?
* * *
Mr. Kenneth Mackay, some rhymes from
whom appear in this issue of The Bulletin, has
jus-, issued a little book entitled “Stirrup
Jingles,” which, as its name would indicate, deals
with such themes as Gordon loved to sing. The
book is, in fact, dedicated to Gordon’s memory in
some good verses, in which the author frankly
says :
" While if about my lines there may be clinging
Some shreds of fancy brighter than my own,
they have been caught through listening to your siDging,
Ana have amidst my duller dreamings grown.
11 Still, as they are the best that I can proffer,
I place them o’er the dust from which they grew—
Well knowing that in spite of foe and Bcoffer,
They would have found a kindly friend in you.”
And off the author canters in a lengthy and racy
defcrlption of a Randwiek meet somewhat in the
“Dagonet” vein, and follows this piece with a
number of fiery, dashing, strong-pulsed “ Bush
Sketches,” “Yarns by Old Stagers”-of which
the “Black Reckoning” recalls Farrell’s “ Yir-
ginius”—and a number of short pieces. We are
sorry that Mr. Kenneth Mackay couldn’t give the
“ biarsted ” wattle a rest, and we are glad that
we do not know him personally, as we once, after
wringing the perspiration out of our brain—in-
duced by reading about the “wattle’s rare
bloom ’’—swore a deadly oath to slay the next
wattle poet that ever crossed our path. By the
way Mr. Mackay ehows in his Ihtle b;ok that he
has quite enough talent to go a lone hand. We
say this because “ The Stockman’s Offering,” has
an irritating way of suggesting other verses of
other authors. One caution more!—Writing with
a knife dipped in the congealed gore of a recently-
deceased poet, who came to his end by perpetrat-
ing a similar crime, we threaten to offer Mr.
Macksy to the gods if he ever again rhymes
“ childnood ” with “wildwood."
* * *
Here is a curious incident. Four gentle-
men were drinking in a Sydney cafd. Soon, one
discovered that a valuable diamond had vanished
from the ring on his flDger. All search was fruit-
less, and two of the party left just then to catch a
train. On the way, one of them being annoyed by
a stone, as he thought, in his shoe, stooped to
remove it. Something peculiar in its touch
prompted him to examine it by the light of a
lamp, when the missing diamond so start’ed him
that he nearly dropped it. Hurrying back to the
cafe he surprised the other pair, still hunting
among cirks and cigar-butts, with his marvellous
story. How it got into his shoe, and how it was
that after it got there he did not eject it without
examination, a’ e questions we leave to the conun-
drum-answerers of the News.
* * *
Some travellers lately put up for the day
at a back blocks pub., and while dinner was being
prepared took guns and went to look for a dingo
that was said to have caused a lot of destruction
in the neighbourhood. They were successful, and
the dingo was stretched. At breakfast next
morning the “chops” were considered to be of
peculiar flavour, and were left untouched. Sus-
pecting something the travellers went in search,
and found that the dingo’s corpse had disappeared.
No mutton for us, thank jou !
* * #
Now, this is filling a long-felt want with-
out doubt. A lady advertises in a London paper
that she is about to start a “school for wives.”
Girls who patronise the new academy will be in
otructed in cookery, dressmaking, book-keeping,
washing, poultry raising, and baby-rearing, all of
which is good; but when the enterprising
academy runner adds that she will also teach her
pupils physiology, elocution, and debating, she
seems to be rather over doing the business, and
men will have a dark suspicion that her curri-
culum embraces curtain-lecturing, flat-iron throw-
ing, and broom-handle exercise, as well. How-
ever, she guarantees to supply “ a perfect wife
for £25,” and if this proves to be correct we intend
to order a little harem-by cablegram at once.
* * #
Editor Bulletin.— The S.M. Herald
published the other day an article entitled “ The
Country Parson in Australia,” but, possibly with
a view to limiting competition in the newspaper
profession, gave an altogether incorrect account
of that white-tied individual. The country parson
in Australia is an individual who comes to the
co onies with the idea of raving souls, but who
drifts into the Devil’s Brigade on the first oppor-
tunity, and assists in damning the population by
w riting for that infernal machine of Beelzebub - the
Press. The country parson in Australia is a myth.
He is a town man is the pari on in Australia. He
edits dreary compilations of respectable twaddle,
lives in the shadow cast by the protruding eaves
of the daily newspaper offices, and he generally
manages to make enough money to get home to
England to be buried. Requiescat in pace !
Yours, A Parson.
* * *
A S.M. Herald reporter who has been
doing ” the private bars of Sydney, observes
that he saw a customer kiss a Hebe and call her
“his little dear,” also that she seemed to like it,
and afterwards turned sideways to comb her
ruffled tresses. This isn’t much of an argument
in favour of the abolition of private bars. Why
the good Sunday-school boys and girls, from Pitt-
street chapel, whose parents read the Herald
I and express themselves terribly shocked at such
hideous wickedness, have been known to do the
very same thing.
* * #
“ Old Saltbush ” has issued a volume
of poems, songs, and ballads under the generio
name of the “Death of Oswald.” The book is
tastefully printed and published by Turner and
Henderson, and the poetry is probably too good to
line boot-trunks with. Of it, otherwise, we can-
not say very much. The lines seem to read all
right, but they lack colour, point, and vigour,[and
the poet drones along in the same old monotone
whether he is singing of joy or of sorrow. Not
much of an enthusiast is “Old Saltbush.” It is
all rhe same to him whether he drops a brick on
his corny” big- toe or finds half-a-sovereign. On
the whole, we think the resignedly sorrowful
I about predominates—by a neck, perhaps. The
tides of his poems are rather lugubrious, although
the poems themselves do not sustain the imprest
sion, or any impression at all save one of
sipping very thin milk through a very
small straw. Amongst other things, “ Old Salt-
bush chants “Oswald and Ellen: A Death
Scene,” “Despair,” “The Family Chain,”
Wreck of the Pride of the Yarra,” “ The Oath
of vengeance,” “ Death of an Aboriginal,”
Drought,” “Death of G. R. Nichols,” “In
Memortam,” “ The Maniac’s Manuscript,” “ Near
Midnight,” “Death of Leichhardt,” and an
Epitaph.” Sounds grim! “Old Saltbush"
must be ihe poet of the shades—perhaps his name
is Charon. We strongly recommend the volume
for use at next annual picnic of the Sydney
undertakers.
* * *
Diamond cut diamond ” was the prin-
cipal item upon Sydney Water Police Court pro-
gramme on a recent Thursday, the leading
characters being taken by Thomas Foster, a dash'
mg, rollicking young buck of 50 years, and his
good wife Jane, a sweet girly-girly oreature, aged
60. Exac ly nine weeks ago Thomas led his fair
to the hymeneal altar, and on a recent
Wednesday night a base minion of the law led
Thomas to the watchhouse, on a charge of desert-
ing the poor trusting wife who had timidly con-
sented to cast in her lot with his. Mr. Foster it
appears, is a pensioner in receipt of the princely
income of 6s. 3d. a week, and his version of the
case ran as follows : “I never saw this woman
till one night she came to where I stayed, and pro-
posed to marry me. I said, ‘Go away, woman ; I
can c marry you ; I have no money to keep you.’
She said, ‘Never mind that; I have plenty money.
I have £ll 000, and will keep you like a prince-
never have to work.’ Then I said
That s a good mark ; 111 have you.”’ Mrs.
103ter gives a somewhat different account of how
the battle raged, however, for she swore : “I only
knew the gentleman two days before I married
him. I took a fancy to his photo., which I saw in
a triend s house.” (N.B. —Thomas is as homely
looktDg as a mud fence.) “ * Will you marry me ? ’
sez ha ; I will,’ sez I, and next night we were
married in the house. I was very foolish, but
there is no accounting for this kind of thing."
What a charming, romantic little story of sweet
maiden simplicity and pure virgin love is told in
those few artless words! The joy of the happy
pair was too great to last long, however, and at
the end of three weeks’ time Thomas began to
get contrairy about money matters.” The
princely life he expected to enjoy seemed to be
about as far off as ever, and on pressing Mrs. F.
for a sight of the fourteen thou., she declared she
had no ready cash at all, but held papers relating
to certain castles in Spain in the shape of “ a
quarter of a million in Chancery.” Thomas at
once had these papers examined by a lawyer, and
then there was more trouble ; for, finding he had
about as much chance of getting hold of the
moon as of the Chanc.-ry cash, he cut up rougher
than ever, and finally, as alleged, skipped from
his eight-weeks’ bride entirely. Desertionnot being
proved, the case was dismissed.
■ * •
The ancient Egyptians used to exhibit a
skeleton at their feasts by way of appetiser. In a
oertain North-Western (N.S.W.) town a recent
hospital ball was presided over in the character of
by the loral undertaker. But there is a
ovely fitness of things in the bone-hider-who
ooked quite rs lugubrious as the occasion de-
manded- bawling out directions for people to per-
:orm the dance of death and waltz into eternity
inder the auspices of the resident surgeon.
* * #
It was at “Romeo and Juliet,” with Essie
Tenyns as Juliet. The balcony scene had just
loncluded with all its rapture and thrills. In
font of us sat two sweet girl things on either side
'f a beauteous masher. Then one turned—with
n impatient shiver—to her impassive escort, and
aid, ouite aloud and quite naively, “ There's not
'inch fun in watching it, is there ? ’ Fact.
* * •
Mr. Harry M‘Quade, of Sydney, who is
uch a mountain of good nature that no one would
ver dream of calling him Henry, has got his in-
olvency certificate. We are glad of this, because,
ke the rest of the world, we were getting just a
ttle tired of reading in the papers about the
I Quades wrestles with Shemitic loan-offices.
There was a ball at Burrowa, N.S.W.,
ist week. Burrowa is the place where the re-
3rd ball was held one year, at which thirty-six
.die 3 and two gentlemen put in an appearance,
ou can’t beat Burrowa, anyhow you look at it;
at just before this year’s ball, when all the creme
s la creme of Burrowa had borrowed their dress
othes, inked over the holes in their boots, and
sed in their false teeth securely, “ a horrid
hisper fell amor gat them as they lay,” namely,
lat the affair wouldn’t be “so select as usual
y dear ; they thought it would be too much
lector and not select enough; they thought
ere might be some people there who hadn’t oiled
eir hair properly, and whose forefathers had
rhaps “come over” in the early days; they
emselves had come out in the Ark, and were
;ting here with the blacks when Cook landed, so
on the strength of that they stayed away from
the dance. The result was that the affair was a
great success, as the objectionable element was
entirely absent-
* * *
Mrs. Malaprop, of the Point, says that
her son is a surgeon in the Sydney Lancers.
It is rumoured that Sydney doctors fre-
quently give certificates of death in the case of
infants who are still alive. This suggests the
idea that family certificates or season-tickets
might be issued at a reduced rate. They would
read something like this: “I hereby certify that
John, Maria, Ethel, Mary, and Joseph Smith, of
“ ~ street, Sydney, will die of natural causes,
also William Jones, of the same street, and the
Chinaman who rents the cellar below Jones. Not
transferable. A reduction made on taking a
quantity.” We regard this idea as one of the
greatest inventions of the age.


I Mr. Lewis Scott seems to have resigned
h 9 Secretaryship of the Metropolitan Liedertafel
tartly on account of ill-health, but chiefly by
'eason of the appointment of Mr. Edwards, the
conductor, to a seat on the committee.
* * *
One of the best balls of the season was
given last week by Messrs. Saywell at the gor-
geous hotel at Lady Robinson’s Beach, near
Sydney. About 350 guests were gathered together
in the large assembly hall —one of the best in the
colony outside Sydney, and the catering, under
the management of Mr. T. S, Huntly, was
excellent.
* * *
Says the Coonamble (N.S.W.) Indepen-
dent : “ The Queen s Fund is hanging fire every
whe e. We rejoice to find there is really a
desire to stay this empty-headed endeavour to give
the colonists away to snobbery. ’
* * *
The bogus Queen’s Fund has only reached
about £ll,OOO in Victoria, though £50,000 was
mentioned by one paper as a likely figure. A rose
by any other name would smell as sweet, but this
movement by any other name would smell much
sweeter and grow much more quickly.
* * * V
Replying to “An Australian” in the
Sydney D.T., H. C. Brierley say 3
11 1 hivfl given some time to the study of the 1 i quo.' ques-
tion, and I must say I utterly fail to discern by what process
• An Australian’ intends to induce a taste vitiated by ardent
spirits containing 53 per cent of absolute alcohol to be
satisfied with a liquor containing 10 to 15 per cent.
Now, several of theN S.W. temperance leaders pub-
licly claim that they are the sons of drunkards, and
ib must be admitted that in their personal appear-
ance there is nothing at variance with the as3er
tion. What Mr. Brierley should now do is to
study some more and inform us how the drunkard s
son with the hereditarily vitiated taste for 53 per
cent, alcohol can be satisfied with sarsaparilla,
zoedone, or picnic gingerbeer, which do not con-
tain more than one drop of alcohol to a bucket of
soothing slop.
* * *
A young lady tells of attending a little
Catholic church in the country near where she
was recently staying. She was painfully conscious
of the florid and pretentious character of the
music attempted by the ambitious little choir, and
of their absolutely hopeless inability to perform it.
The relation between the pastor and the congrega-
tion was evidently of the simplest and mo3t un-
affected nature. In the “ Gloria ” there occurred
a long and showy soprano solo, in hopeless imi-
tation of the cheap Italian style. The
young woman who attempted it sang gaily
on till the clergyman evidently tho ight that she
had 6Djoyed her fair share of attention and glory.
Accordingly he raised his hand as a sign to the
I organist, and the music ceased. “ Let that young
girl with the red feather have done singin, and
let Mary Ann Mooney sing the rest.” There was
a little hesitation in the choir, and he resumed :
“ The services will not go on till Mary Ann has a
show.” Accordingly Mary Ann took her innings,
and “ the young girl with the red feather was
left “ nowhere.”
* *
Dear Bulletin. —I have just learned that
the members of the Southern Club, Sydney, have
brought an action against Gibos, Shallard, and
Co., on the groutd that the latter’s machinery
precludes them, the members, from play id g
billiards, and that the Equity Court is being ap-
plied to to assess damages I sincerely trust it
won’t do anything of the sort. My husband is a
member of the Southern Club, and from what 1
have seen of him since he joined it I think a little
less billiards and a little less liquor would be an
improvement in that institution. If Cribcs,
Shallard, and Co.’s machinery was strong enough
to overset the card tables, too,, it might prevent
him coming home on all fours early m the morn-
ing which he now does pretty often, and when 1
wake and ask him what is the matter he generally
tells me that he does it because he has the tooth-
ache. I never knew before that walking on all
fours was good for toothache. If the' Equity
Court would only make an order that Gibbs,
Shallard and Co.’s machinery was to run all tne
time, I think it would be a blessing to agood
many wives as well as to yours truly, Maria
H • . *
* *
Why should colonial bishops take a six-
months’ holiday ? The devil never knocks off
work. , •
In common decency our bookmakers and
“ spielers ” should roll up in force and heartily wel-
come the Marquis of Drogheda, who is coming to
us by the Clyde. A veracious historian named
Charles Lever tells us that an ancestor of his lord-
ship broke the record at gambling. On being asked
one day “What’s the greatest pleasure m the
world 2” the Marquis promptly answered: Win
nine money.” And when the questioner inquired,
“ What’s the next pleasantest ?” his lordship as
promptly thundered out: ‘ ‘ Losing it, by G
* * *
Dear Bulletin, —Your tale about the old
man who, requested to pay a guinea by a bazaar-
stall hour! for a kissed cup, paid it and asked for
a dean cup to follow, has its complement on the
other side. My authority is that of an eye-
witness, Oscar Wilde, who, like myself, was
afterwards to be lucky enough to mdudeits
charming subject in our circle of friends. It was
in London during the first visit of theComedie
Francaise. A fair was given at the Albert Hall,
and Sara Bernhardt had a stall. She was the
lion (or rather lioness) par excellence of the fete,
and her sales were taken at any pries. Among
others a full-blown example of (he wealthy English
cad approached and enquired the price of a pretty
Uttle cup and saucer. Sara told him. Whereon
he said, in schoolboy French, 111 give you £o if
you’ll kiss it first.” Sara, with a superb gesture
of disgust, flung the cup to the floor where it
smashed in pieces, and turned away to someone
else.—Yours &c., F.A.
* *
Whenever you come across a paragraph in
cl Sydney dafly commencing with the well-known
words. “ An accident which might have been at-
tended,” you should give it best, drop it, and read
something else. It’s sure to end in aslight
shaking,” or, at best, “ a rather serious shock to
the system.” It never comes to within a mile of
the coroner’s inquest that we all love so much.
* * *
Lady Loch has received an enlarged photo
graph of the Queen, with Her Gracious’ autograph
underneath. This fresh proof of the Queen a
sympathy with all classes of her subjects, &c.,
See., has deeply touched dear Lady Loch.
* * *
The seven lady medical students of the
Melbourne University have petitioned the Council
to grant them separate instruction in anatomy,
obstetrics, and clinical surgery. Profes or
Allen, who is quite young and beautiful, says that
sooner than deliver anatomical lectures to a class
wholly composed of “ fair girl graduates with
golden hair " he will—resign,
There is a certain brilliant Melbourne
journalist, distinguished equally for his former
gallantries in the field of Mars and his present
gallantries in the drawing-rooms of the fashion-
able world. The other evening he dined at a
house in East Melbourne in the most jovial of com-
pany, and was invited to stay for the night.
When proceeding to retire, Henry—we shall call
him—after bidding “good night” to his host, was
passing from the dining room to the stairs when
at the foot of the latter he came into collision
with a female figure. In his mo3t courtly manner
Henry over and over again bowed and made his
apologies, but the fair one neither moved nor
spoke, and the host coming upon the scene, found
his guest apostrophising a red table-cover which a
servant had thrown across the bannisters.
* * *
Sandy Macblank is a “ squattah ” in Aus-
tralia Felix (we cannot afford to be deflnate till
libels cheapen). Mac is a red-headed and a level-
headed and a partially-baldheaded man; he
manages his own station, and owns numerous
town lots. He and his lady are always well
received when they take a spell in the metropolis.
Society knows very well that Macblank’s lady is
not altogether Mrs. Macblank, but Mrs. Mac-
somebodyelse. This does not trouble society,
though ; when society has occasion to draw atten-
tion to the fact, it whispers it behind a fan, with
stipulations that it shall “go no further, dear."
That’s Chap. I. ChaD. II.: One evening, in
March, after a regular “scorcher,” when the
great crimson sun was sinking through the trees,
THE TWO SECRETARIES (in chorus) : “WHAT A NOSE!”
and the bleating and lowing of Mac’s flocks and
herds sounded from beyond the clearing, a
tattered, bent, and dusty wayfarer, encumbered
by an unwholesome-looking bluey, clambered
through the slip-panels, and dragged his gaunt
person up to the storeroom. There he leisurely
unshipped his “ drum,” and seated himself upon
it before he deigned to give his order. “ Want to
see th’ boss, old Mac hisself, no one shorter, he
taid. After much argument and profanity, Old
Mac" was called out. Then the footpad uprose,
obsequiously removed his time-worried tile, and
pleaded in a thin voice : “Er y’ goin’ to do th
usual thing, boss—a pannikin o’ damper-dust an a
bit o’ tea ?” Mac was wroth at being disturbed for
such a poverty-stricken footpad, and told him
“no,” he’d see him burning first. The man
pleaded pertinaciously, but deferentially withal,
and at last the lordly squatter waxed properly
mad, and, cursing heavily, swore he’d bullock-
drive the beggar off his land if he didn t cut at
once. Then the sundowner changed his toy:
“ You won’t give me no flour ?” he queried. No,
I’ll be shot if I do.” “ You won’t give me no tea
an’ no mutton?” “No; go, d n you!
“ Then, by ——, sir, you'll give me my wife ! !
N.B. : He got the rations.
* * *
The Rev. Robert Fraser, of the New
Hebrides Mission, was married to Miss West
brook, daughter of Captain Westbrook, a,t Hobart,
on 29th ult. The bride was attired in white Indian
muslin, with pretty wreath and veil. Miss Bayn-
ton, her bridesmaid, wore a grey costume, and two
tiny girls followed, dressed entirely in pale blue.
The bridegroom experienced perils by sea ere route
for the ceremony, having been wreoked on the
voyage from Epi to Sydney, and was passenger by
the Flora when the Gabo collided with her,
BRIEF MENTION.
John Smith is advertised for in the
E. News.
Hallelujah ! Things are improving. Only
six people have poisoned themselves this week
with “ Rough on Rats.”
A certain wealthy Australian lawyer and
politician started life as a groom to his late partner.
He is no w a very stable man.
Jubilee red predominated at the latest
ball giveh by Mayor Cain, of Melbourne. Out of
compliment to Cain, no doubt.
Premier Parkes alleges that he is “ poor,
uif ortunaU friendless ” Why doesn’t he say at
once that he i« poor, bat honest i
“Bishop Goes address to the Anglican
Assembly touched principally on financial mat-
ters." Of course. Money makes the church, Goe.
Haynes thinks that Dibba’ laugh is the
grandest he ever heard outside a donkey-show.
Dibbs is a donkey. He once helped to get Haynes
out of gaol.
The mother of a Melbourne boy convicted
last week of shop-lifting, stated that he read
blood-and-thuuder cheap novels dally for 13 hours
at a stretch.
Scrap from the Melbourne Herald s re-
port of a public meeting “ Rev. J. G. Paton,
the veteran missionary, was listened to with the
deepest regret.”
In Japan, people never wear their shoes
in the house. You take them off at the door.
Ive have never lived in Japan, but we’ve often
iken off our shoes at the door.
Sydney aldermen say funny things some-
imes. At a council meeting last week, Alder•
i*n Meeks said that “ he had been an alderman
ince 1879, and there had been frauds ever since.
A Cooktown (Q.) editor protests against
ieing compelled to act as a juror, as it is next to
mpossible for him to find an efficient substitute,
iyhat is the matter with the Palmer-track packers
nule3 ?
A London paper, commenting on the
nurder of Miriam Angel by Lipski, the young
Hebrew recently executed, says that Jews do
not like being hanged." Perhaps not. You see
they aren’t quite so used to being hanged as the
alleged Christians.
Burglars broke into St. Francis Roman
Catholic Church, Melb., and attempted to force
open a large safe containing a number of sacred
relics. The attempt, however, was a failure, as
the relics arose en masse and resisted all the
efforts of the thieves to prise open the door.
Says the S.M. Herald reporter who
“ did" the Eight Hour procesh “ Th®
along Macquarie-street were occupied chieflyby
ladies, who looked down and gMoettUy smheA
We have here a most daring attempt to curry
favour with the ladies who preside over the hash.
The other day an attempt was made to
capture a burglar. The latter, rendered desperate,
fired his revolver at the detective, whose life was
saved by a pack of cards which he carried in his
breast-nocket. The bullet penetrated 51 cards,
but stopped at the 52nd. After aU. honeaty teethe
best policy. It is always wise to carry a full pacx.
1 racAng veraes, by Mr. Kenneth Mac-
k&y t whicn wcro to h&vo appeared this week, will
be printed in next issue.
Alfred Skelton, of Perth (W.A.), is await-
ing trial for attempting to give his wife some
poison in a glass of beer. In Sydney there would
sometimes be no necessity for putting anything in
,he beer. This item requires consideration.
A young Government clerk with a frugal
soul was carried out the other day in Wellington
(N.Z.) amid loud applause. He had been married
three months before, and had celebrated the occa-
sion by the purchase of a 255. wedding cake for
245. Possibly, however, the wife he got wasn’t
up to sample; perhaps married life in general
proved not the thing it was cracked up to be, or
mayhap the gas bill weighed on his mind, but, at
all events, he dropped in one evening and called
the baker a liar, and broke a window, and was
carried out twice under the baker’s arm with his
head hanging down on one side and his legs on the
other, and was dropped down in the gutter and
got up again, screaming with rage in his efforts to
get a reduction of 4s. on that wedding-cake. Thus
is it painfully demonstrated how much of the
romance of life can vanish in three months.
The day a man is married he has a lordly contempt
for wealth, and would as soon come home in a
shilling cab with his feet sticking out of the win-
dow as take a cheap, vulgar omnibus, and yet in
three shore months he is ready to tear up the
whole street with his nails for four shillings. In
three months more, probably, he will sit round in
I pyjamas all Sunday to save the wear and tear of
his go-to-meeting coat, and about six years hence
he will be a s jrdid wretch who is ready to wallop
the rising family within an inch of their lives
when he finds three of them sitting at the same
time inside his hat. And yet they say that an
honest man is the noblest work of God, though
the house-cat is so much convinced to the con-
trary that she will start off up the chimney if he
only looks at her.
A Scribbler Stops to Think.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Forsooth, because Marcus, Clarke was a scribbler on a
newspaper, and had left a wife and
circumstances, a claim was made on thelegislature on
behalf for a grant of £lOOO . What was the use of
encouraging mere scribblers? We have thousands of them.
What we wanted were thinkers' —(The Honourable Orange
man Paterson.)
“it was all very well to get up and talk about literary
writing, but everyone who knew the late Marcus Clarke
must Say that he had not one honest trait m his character,
nor one kindly feeling. . . He knew him personally, and
he was ready to thow that he was not the great man the
people talked about. His library merit, indeed ! His book
was ailsharks. bull-dogs, and lacerated Hash. —(The Honour-
able Gravel-Pits Bant)
Cremate this roll of foolscap on our little bit of
Are,
That pen’s a patient servant I shall never more
require;
From out our attic window hurl my ancient pot
of ink—
After wasting years a-scribbling I must now
begin to think ;
And I’ll slog my thoughts in verses to the music
of the lyre.
O! I think the brightest bantlings of a ready
writer’s brain
Too often bring but little in the way of worldly
gain
To [the author of their being ; and that others
reap, instead,
The fruits of all hi 3 labours when himself is
lying dead.
And he dies, perchance, believing that his labour
was in vain.
But life’s fitful fever ended, he is honoured in his
grave—
Hands are lifted in amazement which were never
stretched to save—
And all men chant his praises with an ardour
newly born,
) Save the “ wealthy lower orders,” who express
their bitter scorn
!Cor any creature other than a money-grubbing
slave.
A blatant civic bigwig, with a crooked sounding
name,
Breathes black insinuations ’gainst the sleeping
genius' fame,
While the Jingo priest of platitudes (tor which
he’d overpaid)
Wags his chia against all “scribblers,” ever
ready with their aid
To make a speech read trippingly which properly
is lame.
Ah! Life’s a river running to the mighty ocean
wide,
And scum comes to the surface of its never ebbing
tide;
The tin-pots float on gaily, but the golden vessels
sink.
After wasting years a-scribbling, I have just
begun to think—
thoughts like these are wanted, I must
leave you to decide.
EDMUND FIRHER.
Melbourne.
A NEW DISCOVERY.
Hoffman’B Euoalyptal (mixture and injection) positively
cures all urinal and kidney complaints, inflammation,
zravel. lumbago (pains in the back), &c. Purely vegetable.
Contains no balsam (paiba), or .sandal wood. All principal
druggists and storekeepers. Price, 2s. 6d. and 3s. 6d. Take
no substitute.*
c
RITKRION
T M R A T R E.
Sole Proprietor ... ... Mr* John Solomon
ANOTHER GREAT SUCCESS.
W. J. HOLLOWAY’S
Splendid Production
INGOMAR.
Tremendous Success of
Miss ESSIE JENYNS as PARTHENIA.
Enthusiastic Reception of
W. J. HOLLOWAY as INGOmAR.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
INGOMAR.
The Box Plan at Nicholson’s music warehouse.
Bus. Manager for W. J. Holloway, W. H. Manning*
MONTY BROWNE, Manager


Centrally
situated
, AND
ACCESSIBLE
TO ALL THE LEADINC
BUSINESS
HOUSES
IN THE
CITY
DANIELL'S IMPERIAL HOTEL
THE MOST COMFORTABLE
BRISBANE
SOUTH
OFTHE
* EQUATOR
i
wm.
22
atic* 3 -
L
ch.danieu:
ms
m
i
f
lh
s.
M
aOU
mum
U
JU-^=
THREE MINUTES
DRIVE
FROM THE
RAILWAY
STATION
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
WITH All THE
MERCANTILE
HOUSES
BANKS&c.
Private Suites with Luggage Room attached for the convenience of Ladies, Ladies’ Drawing-room, with a mapiflcent view of the Brisbane River and
One-Tree Hill, Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths, fcg* COMMERCIAL ROOM.
Gentlemen’s Smoking, Reading, and Corresponding Room. All Letters and Telegrams applying for Apartments will receive prompt attention. C. H. DANIELL.
Theatre royal,
Under the Dlreotion of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. Sam. Lazar.
TO NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
until further notice, , .
“ HARBOUR LIGHTS.”
“ HARBOUR LIGHTS.”
Prices as usual
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s Hotel
Alhambra music hall.
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
CONGRESS MEETS
CONGRESS MEETS
EVERY EVENING,
at 8 o’clock,
To an Overflowing Audience,
in this
Great Resort
of
PLEASURABLE PASTIME,
pre-eminently
THE MOORE and BURGESS SHOW OF
AUSTRALIA.
POPULAR PRICES.
Orchestra chairs, 25.; Stalls, Is.; Baloony, 6d.
HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees Messrs. Rignold and Allison.
Doors open 7.; Performance 7.50 ; Carriages 11
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. GEORGE RIGNOLD
in Modern Comedy and Nautical Drama.
ALONE AND BLACK EYED SUSAN.
Prices, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s and Co.’s.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
OYAL STANDARD THEATRE.
(Under our own management.)
Lessee and Director Mr. Frank Smith,
Manager Mr. J. Grant.
OUR NEW PROGRAMME
received with
UNBOUNDED SATISFACTION.
MORE NOVELTIES.
L’iOK OUT for
OUR MELBOURNE CUP
(First Part NEXT MONDAY),
one of
THE GREATEST NOVELTIES EVER SEEN
on
ANY STAGE.
Advice : Book seats early.
Dress circle, 2s ; Stalls, 2s. ; Pit, Is.
Box plan at Bruce and Massey’s, Pitt-street.
Carriages 10.30.
COLUMBIA ELITE SKATING RIN K
EXHIBITION BUILDING.
Under the distinguished patronage of his
Excellency the Governor,
LORD CARRINGTON,
and the Elite of Sydney.
A. N. RIDGELY, K. A. SKINNER,
Proprietor. General Manager.
Open to the public every afternoon and evening
and mornings for ladies, from 10 to 12, free.
The Largest Amusement Palace in the World.
Beautifully decorated and Brilliantly Illuminated
by Electric Light.
ATTRACTIONS EVERY EVENING.
SELECT MUSIC.
ADMISSION ONE SHILLING.
G. STEVENSON
Has On Sale—
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c.
COOPERAGE
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market streets.
ofjSydne^
JENOLAN "OA VESfBLUE^
SlO CiEORCE ill j.cwEjitHi/ma.£lCxß.Q>
A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY'S ATHLETIC HALL
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, nr you kiss Foley's you
HAVE NOT BEEN THE CITY.
Please Do Not Bead This!!
IT DOES NOT CONCERN YOU.
THERE is NO excuse for any person of eithei
sex suffering from those unsightly disfigure-
ments of the Face, Neck, or Skin, caused bj
Pimples, Freckles, Moles, Warts, or any other
kind of skin disease, if they will only listen to a
few words of timely advice, and sit down at once
and write a full, clear, and explicit statement oi
their case, enclosing twopenny stamps, when
they will receive a candid reply as to the length
of time that will be required to effect a cure, fee,
&c., &c. Superfluous Hair removed quickly and
painlessly. Red noses restored to normal colour,
All communications held strictly sacred and con-
fidential. Address Edward T. Hubbell
Dermatologist, Box 852, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W. ’
SW ALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Maker,
• 296 Pitt-street.
mm
■SJy*cof*. 7>/v* Ta/tr/n/uN On skin onb Fiac Manet
Qs6 Plrr&T-
Marquees on Hire.
WORD COMPETITION.
Prizes, £5, £3, £1 10s. Extra prize
of 10a. for the best arranged
Competition List.
FOR the greatest number of English words out
of the word “ Doncaster.'’ All words must
be strictly adhered to any Dictionary of the
English Language. No letter allowed to be made
use of more than once in the same word.
Address, enclosing 2s. 6d. to “ENFIELD”
Post Office, Stockton, Newcastle.
To close ©n October 22nd, result in The Daily
Telegraph, November 7th
N - B »—The same privileges allowed as in the
last Word Competition, viz., Any competitor not
satisfied with the results can see their lists, and
also the winning lists on application.
This is to certify that I have This day received
from Enfield ” the sum of £lO for Prizes, to be
distributed in connection with the above Word
Competition.
JOHN LIMEBURNER,
Proprietor General Washington Hotel,
Stockton, Newcastle.
15 th September, 1887
TO STAND THE SEASON,
At Rosehill Racecourse, Parramatta,
Bontiie Charlie.
THE Famous Imported Hungarian Ponv
BONNIE CHARLIE, 11 hands high, by
Poml from Match. *
Terms, £5 sa. An allowance for any number
over three.
Only a limited number of Mares can be taken
for which early application is necessary to be
made to 65 Castlereagh-street, to Wm. Inglis and
Co., Horse Bazaar, or to Brush Farm, Eastwood.
JOHN BENNETT.
ROSEHILL RACING CLUB
SPRING MEETING, 1887.
WEDNESDAY (Prince of Wales’ Birthday)
AND
SATURDAY,
9th and 12th November.
FIRST DAY.
QUEEN’S PRIZE
1. Of 80 sovs. (Second Horse 20 sovs. from the
prize). For Maiden Horses. Weights:
3 years, 7s f . lOlbs, ; 1 years, Bst. 81bs. ; 5
years, Bst. lOlbs. ; 6 and aged, 83t. 121 b.
Winner to be sold for £lOO. If entered to
be sold for £75, allowed 51bs. I\ Mile.
HURDLE RACE HANDICAP
2. Of 100 sovs. (Second Horse 25 sovs. from the
prize). 2 Miles.
PRINCE’S GIFT
3. Handicap Sweepstakes of 2 sovs. each, for
Starters, with 125 sovs. added, (Second
Horse 25 sovs. from the prize). 1 Mile and
3 Furlongs.
DISPOSAL STAKES
. O' 50 sovs. Weight for Age. Winner to be
sold for £6O. 51bs. allowed for every £2O
down to nil. 7 Furlongs.
BIRTHDAY HANDICAP
5. Of 75 sovs. 6 Furlongs.
SECOND DAY.
JUVENILE STAKES
1. Of 100 sovs. For two-year-olds. Colts, Bst.;
Fillies and Geldings, 7st. 91bs. ; Winner of
any Prize exceeding £lOO in value to carry
71bs. extra. 5 Furlongs.
SELIING HURDLE RACE
2. Of 100 sovs. Weight for £ ge. Winner to be
sold for £lOO. 71bs. allowed for every £25
down to nil. 2 Miles.
ROSE HILL HANDICAP
3. Of 150 sovs. (Second Horse 50 sovs. from the
prize.) 1 Mile.
HANDICAP STEEPLECHASE
i. Of 125 sovs. (Second Horse 25 sovs. from the
prize). 2 Miles.
CORINTHIAN WELTER HANDICAP
5. Of 100 sovs. (Second Horse 25 sovs. from the
prize). To be ridden by Amateurs. 1 Mile.
Entrance for each Race, 1 sov. Sweepstakes to
be paid at Scale. Winner of any Handicap after
declaration of Weights to carry 51bs. extra ; or of
2 or more Handicaps, 71bs. extra.
Entrances to be made at the Office of the Rose-
hill Racing Club, 65 Castlereagh-street, on Mon-
day, the 17th October.
Weights declared about Wednesday, 26th
October.
OM.R I L H y
Llw (late of the Deteotive Foroe),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agenoy Office,
41 ROYAL ARCADB, SYDNEY
Abiaonderi and wife deserter* traced, and all kind* of
oafidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
ilvorce. libel, fraud, and incendiary oases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
Ksnts and debts collected. From R. M. R.'s long experience
In the Detective Eorce of New South Wales, Victoria, and
Few Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of tbe
{lobe, be is in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
npscdtitoa and strictest seoresy, and to faithfully and
}raMpt.y attend to all business entrusted to h oare.
afteb OEFORE
Copyrighted. \
Moustache and Whiskers.
.Boyd’s Beard Elixir did this ,
Yind will do it on either bald
"head or bare face■ Forces
heavy Moustache in from 2 to
4 weeks and never fails, 20,000*
young men already wear full
Copyrighted.
beards, having used Ito 3 pkts. No injury, easilij applied, certain
in effect. Packets, Is. 6d. each, 3 for 3s. (j d., post paid, sent tinder
cover, free from observation , Address, Frank Douglas. Sole Agent,
Box 730. G. P. 0., Sydney , NS. W.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, October 11, 1887,
TENDHRS for PUBLIC WORKS and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the following PL BLIG
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of whioh Is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten
ders are opened, and the name of the sucoessfu
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration nniwffs
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with,
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature 02 Works and Supplies.
Dates to whic¥
Tenders
can be received
at this office
Balranald Water Supply, cont.
2, Enginehouse, &c.
Balranald Water Supply, cont.
3, Engine and Boiler
Bridge over Boomi River, at
Yarrawa, road Moree to Mun-
giadi (exclusive of supply of
ironwork)
Bridge, American Creek, at Fig
Tree, Main South Coast Road
Bridges, Reedy Creek, Road
Rylstone to Bylong (No. 1 & 2)
Alterations, &c., Gaol at Tenter-
field
Additions, Lockup. Albury
Supply at Cowra Railway Sta-
tion 4000 cubic yards Gravel
or Broken Stone Ballast
Cleaning Stock Waggons at
Flemington (Homebush)
Supply at Bathurst Railway
Station of 50,000 Bricks
Supply at Goulburn, &c., of
Broken Stone Ballast
Supply of 3000 Railway Sleepers,
Seven Hills, &c.
Tuesday,
October 18,
at 11 o’clock
Supply, &c., of Iron Water
Tower, Balranald Water Sup-
ply, Cont. No. 1
Bridge, Little Forest Creek,
Road Urana to Deniliquin
Bridge, Sandy Creek, Main
North-road, near Muswell-
Brook
Tuesday,
October 25,
at 11 o’clock,
Bridge over Three mile Creek,
Road Wiicannia to Wentworth
Iron Roof Eagiae House, New
Dock, Cockatoo Island
Manufacture, &0., of Single
Ladder Steam Dredge, for
Sydaev Harbour
Bridge, Lahey’s Creek, road
Mudgee to Cobbarah
Bridge over Billabong Criek, at
Mahonga
Tuesday,
November 1,
at 11 o’clock,
Supply, &c., of Pipes, &c., for
Reticulation Balranald Water
Supply, cont. 5 j
Tuesday,
November 8.
at 11 o’clock
Bridge over GDolmargar Creek,
Browns Crossing, Road Lis-
Inore to Nimbin (exclusive of
supply of Ironwork.)
Tuesday,
November IS,
afc 11 o’clock.
JOHN SUTHERLAND.
FITZROY EOTSL,
EAST STREET. ROCKAMPTON,
OF FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL,
Plunge and Shower Bath.
Private Sitting Room, without extra charge,
Good Stabling. Every Accommodation.
JAS. WILLIAMSON, Proprietor,
Cig'ax EDtTran.
(Next Royal Standard Theatre.)
Best kinds of Tobacco, Cigars and Pipes.
R. CLIFFORD,
CABTLKREAGH STREET.
THE NEW BALL-POINTED PENS, sold by
us in assorted boxes, Bd. to Is. 2d., post
free.
TURNER and HENDERSON, Importers,
Hunter-street,


Champion walker Weston has renounced
the oinder track and become a reporter in New
York.
Northern solicitor to Teutonic client :
“ Were you a partner or not?” Client: “No;
ve vas not partners ; ve vas whacks! ”
A Cairns (Q.) parson objects to three-
penny bit contributions. In Sydney they are
grumbling because they don’t get enough three-
pennies.
Glen Innes gaol is just now tenantless.
The Bulletin suggests that it be fitted up to
enable well-connected convicts to shake off their
ague and dyspepsia.
The Nerang (Q.) Police Court sits once a
month and adjourns at 1 p.m. If the plaintiff
has finished his evidence by that time the court
doesn’t sit on. No. It adjourns ; and the de-
fendant, who knows the plaintiffs case, has thirty
days to roll up fresh evidence and swamp the
other party.
A Queensland journal states that the
prisoners in St. Helena (Brisbane) prison “ make
themselves generally useful in the sphere in
which Providence has placed them.” How mag-
nificently the writer of that unctuous phrase will
intone the responses when he himself gets into
the gaol choir!
Croydon (Q.) barmaids hare more offers
of marriage than they know what to do with.
Sara Bernhardt—about whom two con-
tinents rave—began life as a dressmaker s ap-
prentice.
A Miss Jane Day was recently married in
Wellington (N.Z.) to a Mr. H. Plug. Every
newspaper in the land but one immediately
chuckled over the fact that Miss Jane would
have a Plug ter back her bills.
The brewers and wine merchants of Syd-
ney have decided that any member giving a
Christmas box to a customer will b 8 liable to a
fine of £lOO. This is quite right. It is impossible
to imagine a more horrible way of celebrating
Christmas than sending to any unoffending person
a case of Sydney whisky.
The oldest tree on record in Europe is
asserted to be the cypress of Somna, in Lombardy,
Italy. This tree is believed to have been in exist-
ence at the time of Julius Creiar, 12 years before
Christ, and is therefore 1929 years old. It is 190
feet in height, and 20 feet in circumference one
foot from the ground. Napoleon, when laying
down his plan for the great road over the Simplon,
diverged from a straight line to avoid injuring
this tree.
THE CENTENNIAL DEAD-HOUSE: ANOTHER GLIMPSE INTO THE FUTURE.
PAT: “PLASE GOD, IF I LIVE, I’LL BE BURIED BEYANT!"
MOIKE: “AND FAITH, IF PROVIDENCE SPARES ME, SO WILL I!”
THE ’FRISCO SEALS.
We take the following interesting item from the
Newcastle (England) We elk y Chronicle of
August 6, 1887 “ The man who advertises any-
thing that is reasonably good, and advertises it
well is sure to succeed. According to the will of
Mr. Perrin, this manufacturer of Worcestershire
sauce has amassed a fortune of £700,000. The
secret of making the sauce is said to have been
brought from India by a Mrs. Gray, and Messrs. Lea
and Perrin, who secured the valuable recipe, lost
no opportunity of making themselves famous by
it. It is a fact that the mo3t successful adver-
tisers are chemists. They discover a fairly good
marketable article, and if they have sufficient
capital to advertise, success is at oaoe assured.
The principle of all advertising is first to get a
good thing and than let the public know you have
it. Our American friends far excel us in adver-
tising, for who bat a Yankee would have thought
of placing on the granite slopes of the Rocky
Mountains, on the giant trees of California, and
not only on the Seal Rocks opposite ’Frisco, but
upon the seals themselves, the words ‘ St. Jabob3
Oil Conquers Pain*' On the backs of some of the
seals can be distinctly seen the word ‘ Saint,’ on
others ‘ Jacobs,’ on others ‘ Pain,’ the whole die-
porting the mysterious legend, St. Jacobs Oil
Conquers Pain!
Differences of opinion
are one of the safety valves of everyday life.
All interest in life would cause if everybody
thought in the same groove. Even love would
die if his little quurrals were deeied him ; aid the
beautiful object of his affections, whose ambition
it is to become by turns his wife, cook, house,
keeper, washerwemun, and nurse, would soon fret
herself into fiddle strings if she failed to provoke
him into a breach o! the verbal peuce at least
twice in every week or tea days. Most of the
people we meet in the street hold very decided
views on all the principal topics of public iaterest.
Some are very disagreeable on the subject of the
Bulli Fund distribution, while others are equally
objectionable in the matter of the corporation
frauds; one man swears by Parkes and another by
Melville ; and one who belongs to and believes in
the Salvation Army is taking his 7-bell nip withja
man who is a rigid Sabbatarian one day in the
week, a fervent apostle of the greed oa the other
six, and wears a blue ribbon and a belltopper hat
all the time. Fortunately there is one common
ground on which all who meet can agree. No
sooner is reference made to Clausen’s New York
Champagne Lager Beer than they are unanimous
n their acknowledgments of the solid merit which
hasm ade that particular b rand so pop ular. Its spark
ing brilliant parity, and its invigoratiag tonic
properties are known to all; and i ; is impossible
for any Bane man, no matter how angular may be
his proclivities, to maintain an adverse opinion on
the subject when his nose has once been surrounded
by the rim of a tumbler containing that modern
nectar known to fame as Clausen's Lager Beer.
Among the interesting additions to the litera-
ture of the day, however, is the report of the New
South Wales Drink Commission. It gives the
condensed opinions of so many people whose
opinions one is glad to get on a subject of mu eh
importance, and “Barmaids and Private Bars’,
have been pretty freely discussed therein, for the
benefit of the community, of course, by some who
are supposed to know all about them, as well a 3
byothers whose sources of information are at the
same time a source of wonderment. The police
authorities and the m agistrates, sundry publicans
and many parsons, representatives of local option
and apostles of temperance, cabmen who should
know and clerics who shouldn’c, with numerous
other equally good and virtuous men, have had
their little say, and the result is another illustra-
tion of one of the proverbs of Solomon, that—
“D fferent people bas different opinions—
Some likes applet and some likes inions ”
We live in a cold and a contradictory world, and
the topics on which all people can agree in
harmony and freedom are few and far between.
The most prominent one chat we can think of is
Clausen’s New York Champagne Lager Beer.
Everybody admits that it is the best in the market,
and everybody stamps the admission by asking
for it when the idea of a drink is suggested, of
whenever the sensation of thirst becomes oppyis-
sive. It is a favorite in all bars whether public
or private, and it is just as refreshing to a local
optionist or an apostle, as it is to a police panjan-
drum or a prostrate invalid.
CLAUSEN’S NEW YORK CHAMPAGNE
LaGER rEER
TS PURE, PLEASANT, and REFRESHING
ADMIRABLY ADAPTED to the
CLIMATE.
SUITED to EVERY CONSTITUTION.
Sailors, soldiers, doctors, lawyers, and parsons
drink it. The learned professions and the un-
learned masses alike approve of it. The strong
healthy man, and the weak, fragile women derive
equal benefit from its wonderful tonic invigorat-
ing properties The reason being that
ptjAUSen'S champagne lager is made
FROM PURE MALT AND HOPS.
Kit is kept in all First-class Hotels everywhe; e,
and everbody who drinks beer naturally asks for
CLAUSEN’S LAGER BE HR.
It can be obtained from Messrs. Mason Bros ,
Limited, Fesq and Co , Tooth and Co., Allt aid
Co Burrows and Gleeson, Lucas Bros., R
Butcher and Co., J. T. and J. Toohey and Co
Tidswell Wilson and A. Thompson and Co., C.
Bath and Co., Cooper, NathaD, and Co., Darcy
and Co., A. Rowan and Co, Tucker and Co,
Stewart and Co, and others,
If you have a good wife and
Watch, it’s as much happiness asy
world, and about as much as you c
time.
Waterbury
want in tlr's
hold at one
A parson’s verandah, in South Australia,
isn’t a good place to hang catsmeat on- A
labourer in the vineyard down there advertises as
follows :
“ The person who took, in broad daylight, one of two
sheep's plucks hanging under ray verandah on Wednesday
last can have the other one by applying to me, as bare-facat
thieving and effrontery should not go unrewarded ”
How the Synod will get up and snort at the
brother who wants to reward thieving and
effrontery!
One of the best managed and largest hotels In Sydney is
he Great Northern, comer Charlotte Place and Georgc-
street. Having been thoroughly renovated, Travellers will
find it the oosiest place in Sydney, The shilling luncheon
there is immense *
New South Wales at the Colonial and Inman
Exhibition w s thoroughly lepresentative and, Gold Ores
and Qu ».tz attracted great attention, especially when it was
known that the average per ton was far in excess of that in
the other colonies Later news has shown that New South
wlles is Ukelv to become the " Gold. Field of the future .»
Mr Freeman, the inventor of the Original and only Genuine
Chlorodyne, has lately sent out many cases with those gentle -
men who are interested in the auriferous enterprise. Mr.
Freeman has received numerous flattering letters and visits
from New South Wales colonists who, one and all, speak
of tv incalculable value of his Colorodyne in the treatmenr
of all the commoner diseases of life, and especially in Cramp,
Colic Diarrhoea, Dysentery and Fevers so frequently met
with ’in the Gold and Diamond Fields of Auetralia.-Sold
everywhere throughout the Colonies Insist upon having
■' Freeman’s” only. Reject substitutes, as they are worth-
less. Trade mark an Elephant.*
£lO 000 MELBOURNE CUP £lO,OOO
' At 20s. each.
Bun, Nov.. Ist, 1887.
First Horse £5,000; 2nd, £2,000; 3rd, £1 000; Starters,
£1,000; Non Starters, £1,000; to be divided amongst them.
£2 000 MELBOURNE CUP £2,000
First Horse,'£l,ooo, 2nd £3OO, 3rd £2OO, to Starters, £250,
Non Starters £250, to be divided amongst them.
Address—‘\Tattersall,
Care c f G. Adams,
Tattersall's Hotel,
Pitt-street, Sydney.*
The man who goes into a private bar for
nip will probably be censured by a Krapp.
From the S.M. Herald :
‘‘ TO MINE RS.~A lady ia possesrioa valuable secrets
about a g’Cd gold c'aiai, is anxious to meet one
or two gent’emen with capital to woik the ground. Is
wepared to personalis assist in pointing out same.
Partic R. S , Haymarket P. 0."
Of course she advertises. Whoever met a woman
who could keep a secret ?
Summer ! Hookings and Co., have Australian Wines
from one to two guineas, doz —143 Pitt street.*
MORE FRAUDS!
Our notice has been drawn to the fact that some
unprincipled person or persons are putting up a
very inferior article of Beer in the empty bottles
of the famous St. Louis Lager Beer, and palming
it off on the public as the genuine article. £5O
reward wH be paid to anyone giving information
that will lead to the conviction of such person or
persons. One of our customers says he has seen
many of the bottle 3 opened without the brand of
Anheuser on the corks, which is on all genuine
corks in the genuine bottles. The public should
examine each bottle before using it.
BUTCHER FEHON and CO.
P.S. —We will thank the public for any infor-
mation that will give us a clue to hunt up these
villains.
B, F. and Co.
Lung Troubles and Wasting Diseases can be cured
if properly treated in time, as shown by the following state
meat from D. C Freeman, Sydney. “ Having reen a great
sufferer from pulmonary attacks, and gradually wastin?
away for the past two years, it affords me p’easure to testify
that ' ‘ Scott s Emulsion op Cod Liver oil with Lime
and Soda has given me great relief and I cheerfully recoin
mend it to all suffering in a similar way to myself. In
addition, I would say that it. is very pleasant to take. Large
and small sizes at all Chemists.
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
HENRY THORPE, Proprietor,
Late of the Baden Baden Hotel, Coogee.
mHE moat elevated and central position in Sydney, at Top of King-street, adjacent to all Law
1. Courts, Macquarie-street, Hyde Park, Domain, and the Botanical Gardens.
Private Suites, Ladies’ Drawingroom, and good airy Bedrooms.
The Hotel is replete with every Convenience. Baths fitted with hot and cold water. Telephonic
communication. Telegraphic office in Hotel.
The Hotel is now under entirely new management, and the present proprietor trusts by eareful atten"
1 lion to business to make The Oxford a Comfortable Home for Visitors or Residents of Sydney,
LOOK AT THIS.
150 Long shaped, Chinese Cane Balcony
Lounges, 12s. 6d.
150 Chinese Balcony Blinds, complete,
with cord and raokpullies, sizeGxB 6s Od.
150 ~ ~ siz9 8x 8 7s. 6d.
150 ~ ~ size 10 x 8 i)s. 6d.
150 ~ ~ size 12 x 8 10s. 6d.
Not more than 5 of any one size will be sold to
any one customer, as our object is to make the
prize bargains general, and we again repeat the
prices are for October only, and for above named
parcels.
What more useful than Chests of Drawers. Jus
read this aloud and go fume and fret at having
bought elsewhere than Lawler’s.
70 of those handy 4-drawer Chests of
Drawers, £l5 0
100 of those useful large 7-drawer
Chests cf Drawers, £2 5 0
100 of those Sideboard looking Chef-
foaiers, £2 2 6
20 Large 6 feet glass-back sideboards, £8 10 0
But again we repeat not more than 5 of a line will
be sold to any one buyer.
Gently, gently. We spoke of revolutionary
rates, and we mean to the letter to prove our
prices revolutionary to the hilt.
25 English .Ash, full 4 feet Wardrobes,
with silver-plate glass-door, and
fitted with hang up compartment,
and deep drawer under, £7 15 0
25 Fullsize English Ash Marble, and
tiled back Washs ands, 2 15 0
25 Fullsize English Ash Dressing Tables,
glass, drawers, &c., 2 15 ,0
25 Fullsize English Ash Pedestal Cup-
boards, 16 6
25 Fullsize English Ash Towel Rails,' 4 6
50 Fullsize English Ash Cane Seat
Chairs 7s. 6d, each, the two 15 0
£l5 1 0,
Phew!—Ask any one else to touch it in single size
in Pine even at £lB.
We are on the job in Upholstery, and singly
invite our friends to call, as space will not admit
of cbroaocling a few special bargains where so
many prize bargains abound.
But our confidence in the matter of bargains in
Upholstery, is so strong that great though the
temptation is to avail ourselves no farther of the
press, yet what we have done, what we are doing,
and what through great, marvellous, October we
will do, is excuse sufficient to break through al
resolves.
Suites for Drawing-room in solid Wal-
nut, and spring set, frames all
close braced, upholstered in
very best manner in own
factories, and covered in Tapes-
try of silk and wool, gimped and
c irded, and finished in first-class
style, for the sum of £l2 10 0
Will bring more money under the hammer. Could
not—and here lot us say it/a worth the while of
those who read the statement to go through
Sydney houses and judge for themselves, the
above suite could not be got in Sydney a brown
cent less than £lB 103. Yes, the suite is of 9
piec?s. But hold on searchers after “bargains - ’
we will give you a surfeit of them at Lawler’s dur-
ing this great October sale.
Look at this ye joyful widowers’ who purpose
furnishing again.
Suite of 9 pieces, upholstered on the
premises, webbed from frame in
best manner, and with b’st web,
spring set and upholstered in
olive terry, the small cha*rs hav-
ing upholstered panelbacks, ... £8 10 0
How ig it done? Well, that’s not the lookout of the
buyer. Let the buyer buy, and buy quicsly,
whilst bargains of the kind are before him, or as
Sure as the sun will shine to morrow he'll have to
plant down hig sweet little £-2 12s. for the suite
above referred to at Lawler’s at £8 103.
The £2l 10s. suite 3 in Tape.try and plush—and
where can such a selection of frames and furniture
coverings be seen— je3, those charm'ng suites will
only be £lB 103. during this sale.
There are some 20 suites upon the floor at £35,
which will be sold during this sale at £25 10s.
But those who want the best Dining-room suite
in Sydney, massive, bold, handsome, glorious,
something in solid Walnut and in real morocco,
here's a line worth coming to look at.
Masaive Dining-room suite in solid
Walnut, upholstered through-
out in curled horse hair, and
covered in real best morocco.
Value, £9O but at October’s
sale, £57 10 0
This could not be repeated, so there’s nouseof say-
ing that it could Tho frames alone are worth
£3O.
And sideboards and Dinner waggons and Tables
to match.
Gilt Pier Glasses, during sale,
Walnut and Amboina inlay Pierglasses ~
Black and Gold Pierglasses, ~
Large Ditto ~
Very Large DiPo ~
No exageration to say worth half more
asked during sa'e.
This column is about ended. For the good of
those who read we say bear this important fact
in mind that we offer no old stock, ill fashioned
and damaged, for the simple reason we have none.
There is not an article that will bg on show that
has been 6 months in the warehouse
Look out for bargains, for by the immortal Jove
and a'l his juniors we will make Lawler’s October
sale, and all the Emporium wondrous bargains
thing to be talked of for years to come.
Watch for the ready-made clothing advertise
ment and the birgnins in that department.
Boots also, and drapery Carpets and ron
mongery, all will get their turn,'and by thunde
they will speak.
The place at which to knock spots off “ Fire ’
and all “other” sales is Lawler’s Emporium
Call in thousands. Write and you will
attended to with the same promptness as
person.
For October only, this sale of Lawler's,
but its a terror.
LAWLER’S
008 GEORG E-STREET,
SYDNEY.
255. Od,
15s. Od.
375. (id,
555. Od
85s. Od
than i


LIFE ASSURAMCE.
The Mutual Life Insurance
Company of New York
DESIRES the public to carefully avoid con-
founding it with other Companies, as mis-
takes have arisen.
This is NOT the “ New York Life Company.’’
It is NOT the “Equitable of the United
States.
It is the Company of which Mr. M. A. Black,
Actuary of the Australian Mutual Provident
Society, officially writes that it is
“THE LARGEST AND WEALTHIEST INSUR-
ANCE CORPORATION IN THE WORLD.”
Its Invested Funds are more than
TWENTY-FOUR MILLION POUNDS
STERLING,
an amount exceeding the funds of the
BANK OF ENGLAND!
Its policy-holders have the
SIMPLE3T AND MOST LIBER AL CONTRACT,
and receive the
LARGEST BONUSES
given by any Life Insurance Company in the
world.
Its claims are promptly paid in Australia im-
mediately upon acceptance of proof of deatb and
title.
Z. C. RENN E,
General Manager for Australia,
131 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
N.B. Applications for Insurance, for Agencies,
or for Information promptly responded to.
The most welcome discovery of
MODERN TIMES.
A CURE for PULMONARY CONSUMPTION.
To the consumptive, and those who suffer from
asthma, bronchitis, coughs, colds, haemorrhage,
and other affeetions of the lungs, this no ice is of
vital importance, for this remedy will effect a
perfect cure of the most stubborn cases.
The afflicted need have no fear of it, and must
not regard this advertisement as the ordinary notice
of some quack medicine. The qualities of the
preparation are cleaning and healing, causes easy
and copions expectoration, and heals the lungs
through the blood, promotes digestion, and thus
aids the stomach to digest and assimilate nourish-
ing food for the formation of pure vitalising blood,
to repair diseased tissues, and maintain the vital
powers.
On application far reference we will send the
addresses and testimonials of those persons whom
it has cured.
The Consumptive Cure can be obtained from the
office of William Ford and Company, No. £
Australia-street, opposite Courthouse, Newtown,
Sydney. Sent to any part of the Colonies. Price,
7s. 6d. per bottle. And where may be also ob-
tained The Cure of St. Vitus’ Dance, by ex-
ternal application, which disease it will cure
within eighty-four hours.
COLEM ANE and SONS, Cootamundra, N.S.W.,
are manufacturers of the ONLY GENUINE
EUCALYPTI OIL in the colonies. All those
suffering from Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption,
Pleuresy, Colds. Gravel and Kidney Complaints,
Rheumatism, Toothache, and Neuralgia and
Fevers of all kinds, also for lowness of spirits and
over indulgence in spirituous liquors it has no
equal. Posted by us to any part of the colonies
on receipt of stamps. Price Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per
Bottle; Ointment 2s. and 3s. 6d. per pot. Whole-
sale from Elliott Bros., Drug Company; and
Hofftiung and Co.
m
jgTUDY
ECONOMY
and
Have pour Umbrella Frame* re-
covered and pour
Faraioli re-lined and made equa
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
511 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurit Street)
ParaioU made to match coi
waaaa Renaira nemtla exaaotaf
GBD. GBD. GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
BRIAR 0 PIPES,
Still maintains its Prestige and stands pre-eminent among
the hosts of other brands as
THE BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforce the Law against
- all persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS G-OLDSOEMIDT & CO.,
231, OLARENCE-STREET.
GBD. GBD.
We have Large Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to hand and Regular Shipments coming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY.
“ They fit perfectly, and are
far superior to all the other
Corsets I ha ve triea."
Siyned Mabie Boze.
THE
Y*N
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Corset
Will not split in the Seams no
tear the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect Com
fort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita
tions. Every genuine Y & N
Corset stamped “Y & N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116,"
in oval.
Three Gold Medals!!
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, GOULBURN, N.S.w'
FIRST CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen andothers. Privatesitting rooms,
ample room s. JAMBS SIMONS, Proprietor.
JEczems on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
Scrofula on Keck.
PI M PLES to SC ROFU LA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send, for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVE!, , the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cnticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
'■lrresets throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
'/iz /■: . ii). Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$l. >J. Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Siiav-
w*. -Rvp, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
.pcs 'i'LUe.
Prepared by the
Pof te»* ''rug & Chemical Co., Boston, TT.S.A.
“NEW MOODL” CAMERA,
Closed
CHAIR AND HEAD REST,
(new and improved).
LICHTNER AND CO.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK DEALERS
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
MASON BROTHEBB,
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Hare always in STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADB and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky,
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
«. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva,
A. MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
Monument
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Bailingi.
Deiigni and Bitimatei forwarded on rectus,
j. annsuGHin,
KeAR«T-sra«*T, Wyottabs-squam, Sydmsy
WE can recommend the Imperial Hair-Cut-
ting Saloon as the best in Brisbane.
Tobacco and cigars of the best brands. Address i
Temple Building, George-street, six doors from
Queens-street. A, COOPER, Proprietor,
Everybody \
SHOULD USEJ
PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
PLOTJE!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE Is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
881 Omßßi-nnH. Stdrit.
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
MACKAY.
UNSURPASSED accommodation for commer-
cial travellers, and families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy meets every steamer.
I make comfort of travellers a special study.
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V, ROBINSON,
Proprietor.
ALAN B. BRIGHT^
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
THE SCIENCE OF LIFE,
By W. Knox Parker, M.D.
A Book for young and old men. 200 pages*
bound in cloth, and contains over 100 prescrip
tlons. Price, post paid, 3s. 6d. Descriptive
sample free. Those suffering from Nervous ex-
haustion and Diseases should send at once for this
valuable work. Address: Doctor W. K.
Parker, Post Office Chambers, corner Bourke and
Elizabeth Streets, Melbourne, Vic.
B KAD
&Y, MBWION, ft LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
BPRING and C’CONNELL STREETS
£35
PIANOFORTE,
guaranteed
Bound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, bril ant
tone, In handsome oase.
Free at rail or wharves tot
cash only,
Bradley, Newton, and
L»mb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Con-
nell-street.
w,
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s 6d.
Bradley, Newton, & Lamb,
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment, just opened, many quite new
designs.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &o. Bradley, New
ton, and Lamb.
PULL SUITES for DINING-ROOM.—SIDE
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.|
WALNUT TELESCOPE DINING TABLES
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS
In
GREAT VARIETY,
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB
Spring & O’Connell sfca.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.
VERY ELEGANT. Bradley, Newton
and Lamb.
'IVTOYELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
-1.1 SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
O Connell-street. _____
WALL-MIRRORS and BRACKETS, novelties
in Plush and Velvets, and in all Woods,
from ss. 6d. each.
Elegant Venetian mirrors, richly
enamelled, in colours. Bradley, Newtor.
and Lamb. '
'HMf
□□
Drawing room ojbi-
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs,
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMP,
FUBtfITOBK WANXHG ÜBHIIIf i
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets,
Drawing-room furniture.—The latest
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and lamb
Manufacturers, Spring and O’Connell streets.
m
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS.-Handsome,
fashionable designs in black and gold with
side shelves; also, in oak and walnut wood a t
all prices. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMP
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Conner
streets*
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bat
rooms. New designs covered to order t
any material.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest*
, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
juamb, O’Connell-street. 11
BEDSTEADS, ail t i ier ,
Nickel-piatetl and Black
and Bragg. @reat variety,
Bedding.—All descriptions at
lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Importers,
0 Connell and Spring Streets.
SPRING MATTRASSBB
Wo?en Wire, beat
Eft&ke t also, Spiral Sprint ■
Price, from lie, each.
■KAD&BS3 KIWTOW and LAME,


PERSONAL ITEMS.
That accomplished guinea pig, the hen-
pecked Duke of Manchester, is again on his way
to Australia.
They say at Melbourne that the brand of
Cain doesn’t amount to much when it’s on a cham-
pagne-bottle. .
(I * Mrs. Mary Cobcroft, of Singleton, who is
92 years old, is said to be the oldest native-born
woman in N.S.W.
Dr. Bevau, the Welsh Irish Home Ruler.
who is pastor of the Collins-street Independent
Church, Melbourne, is at present on his first visit
to Sydney.
Bathurst can boast of a constable, ®tul
do’ng chVy, who was wounded by Johnny Gilbert,
the bushranger, 25 years ago, on the Carcoar road.
Sutto\ the policeman in question, ranis as a
senior-constable. Promotion is quick in the
“ foorcc.” C
Mr. Brunton Stephens, wlo
has frr many years suffered from
defec'ive eyesight, to the sericus
curtadment of his powers of read-
ing, is about to undergo an opera-
tion which promises a large, if not
c mplete, recovery of vision. The
sympathy and good wishes of all are
with Australia’s representative poet.
Polydore de Keyser, the Lord
Mayor-elect of London, is a Belgian
Roman Catholi 3 who runs a big
hotel, chiefly patronised by Germars.
(hie way and another, the forth-
coming turtle-dispenser is about as
English as his Gracious Queen, and
ought to be singled out for special
marks of Royal favour during his
year of greasy greatness. _
“M. H. Davies, the new Victo-
rian Speaker, Js 37 years old, having
been born at Geelong in 1850. He is
an evangelical lawyer who has coined
money in land-speculation, and is
married to the daughter of a Pres-
byterian parson. He is in a bour-
geois sense the ** best-lockiDg
member of the Victorian Assemb’y,
and under all the foregoing circum-
stances is naturally enough President
of the Victorian Young Men’s alleged
Christian Association.
*~ln his latest story, Mr. Robert
Buchanan describes a prison chap-
lain as “a pale, spare, clean-shaven
man, more resembling a priest of the
Roman Church than a Christian
clergyman. ” This comes upon us with
a phcck, considering that the Queen
is hereditary Defender of the Faith
which was Roman Catholic when
Henry the Mormon first assumed the
title.* We won’t have it that Her
Gracious is a heathen. Anyway,
she isn’t a poor heathen.
The Marquis of Aiksbury,
who, according to cablegrams, has
been warned off the British lurffor
life, for alleged swindling, is a young
fellow who is better known by his
former title, as Viscount Savernake.
He is the youth who caused a mild
sensation by marrying an infarior
brand cf actress named Dolly Tester
a few years ago, when it was not
quite so fashionable as at present
for the aristocracy to select wives
from the London leg-shows.
Thirteen years ago young
Frederick Napier Broome, ajournalist,
arrived in St. Petersburg, where
Lord Augustus Loftus was ambas-
sador, to write for the Times an ac-
count of the marriage of the Czar s
daughter and the Duke of Edin-
burgh. Broome is now Governor of
Western Australia, and Lord Augus-
tus is in the Insolvency Court. But
after all, there are some people who
would rather be in the Insolvency
Court, London, than at Government
House, Perth, W.A.
pMr. Carl Feilberg, editor of
the Brisbane Courier, though out
of danger, is still very ill. Mr.
Feilberg landed years ago in Austra-
lia with a cavity in one lung, which
was permanently cured by a three
years’ sojourn on a Barcoo station.
After that he served his journalistic
apprenticeship at Cooktown, then
tried his hand at editing one of the
South Queensland papers and con-
tributing to the Courier, before he
'turned up in Melbourne in the un-
congenial capacity of sub-editor of
the Argus. The argus people nave
frozen off the best employees mey
ever had, and Mr. Feilberg gladly
embraced the offer of the Courier
editorship. He 1 eports that there
were only three men on the Argus
whose blood corpuscles were red,
and, 10, one of these men in turn
departed, and is now in Sydney.
Mr. Feilberg ha 9 not many friends,
but they make up in intensity of
feeling for their number. He de-
clares the ideal journalist ought to
know everybody, and be known by no
one. What he is suffering from now
is asthma and general debility fol-
lowing On a smart attack of pleurisy.
A certain retired Wesleyan minister
of Fitzroy (Melb.), says be would rather die
than buy an orange on the Sabba:h Day. Then
let him die l
The Hon. Thomas Bent objects to “ His
Natural Life” because it is “ all about sharks
and bull-dogs.” But Marcus Clarße never meant
to be personal.
In an unmarked grave on the banks of the
Bell River at Molong (N.S.W.) lie the remains of
a brother of the English corn-law agitator,
Richard Cobden.
London World says that Lord Deerhurst
“ proposes to return to Australia shortly, if only
to superintend the working of his * claim.
Sutton’s claim for costs ?
From a Victorian paper : “To the Editor.
—Sir I beg to state that I am not the John Smith
who was fined 53. at the Police Court last week
for language.—Yours, &0., John Smith.
The Western Grazier asks : “ What is
to prevent the Minister for Mines from drafting a
rabbit Bill 1 " Our bucolic contemporary ought to
know. Habigle still spells rabbit with one ‘ b.’
The other day, Mr. Arthur Da Vere
Somerset was “ pulled ’’ by the engineer of a St.
Ki’da (Vic ) hash-foundry to show just came why
he should not pay his board bill. What’s in a
name ?
Six persons whose obituary notices ap-
peared in a recent issue of the B.M. Herald,
totalled 432 years, an average of 72 yra-s. The
worst of it is that not one of them belonged to
tiie Upper House.
Some humourist last week inserted an ad-
vertisement in the Age, informing all and sundry
that the Rev. B. Butchers, a well-known Mel-
bourne parson, had “ passed away." And so he
bad —to Adelaide.
A certain M.L 0. of N S W., with a not
too patrician cogncmen, has four sons, to '"’hom
he has given gorgeous Christian names, viz., Jago,
Lance. and Claude. The father's name is
plain John Str.i h I
“Beautiful and True.”
A pLArtBRXKO Testimonial. —It will
be remembered that a short time ago Mr.
H. B. Solomons, photographer, of this
town, took several excellent likenesses of
ithe Premier, Sir Henry Parkes, when he
visited Armidale. M.r. Solomons, at the
request of the Premier, forwarded the
(rftotos. to Sir Henry, and has received
the folldwing letter from the Premier,
which speak* for itself, and should prove
a moat -flattering souvenir :—“ Colonial
Secretary’s Office, Sept. 19th. Dear sir
On reaching the office this morning I found
your parcel with four photographs. I
thank you very much for this attention.
I have been photographed in the different
parts of tHfe world—not only in the cities
of Australia, but by different artists in
San Francisco andrNew York and in Lon-
don—and I think yours are the finest
portraits of me that I have ever seen by
photography, especially the one with the
arm* folded, and the one leaning on a
chair with pointed finger, both of which
appear to me beautiful photographic pic-
tures and true likenesses.—Yours faith-
fully, Henry Parkes.” We have also
to thank Mr. H. B. Solomons for two of
the photos, of Sir Henry Parkes, one of
whioh can be' seen in our office. Both
portraits faithful likenesses, and
quite equal, if not superior, to anything
seen in the metropolis.
Amongst the Czar's household treasures is
a photograph album containing pictures of all the
menwho have attempted to assassinate him. 1 hers
is one photo he will never see, but it will come
along in due time.
Dr. Rose, M.P., of D.vorce Court fame, j
intends to introduce an eight-hours’ bill into the
Victorian Assembly. No one knows better than
the doctor how long a tradesman, particularly a
baker, has to work.
Queen Victoria’s hair has turned quite white
lately. No doubt this c lines of her being “very
sorry when there is an accident in the coal-mines
—as the dear little schoolboy ra’d in his essay.
The Built disaster, we preiune, bleached her last
dark hair.
The Empress of China write 3 poetry ; she
has recently presented a little thing of her own,
numbering 600 stanzas, to the Nankin College. This
news should fix in the mind of every true Austra-
lian a firm determination to wage unwearied war
j on the Chinese influx. S’ic might take it in her
| head to come out here.
A member of the N.S.W. Contingent to
the Soudan got three years’ at Hillston (N.S W.)
the other day for robbery and prison-breaking.
This is the effect of British soldiers. When a man
mixes Britain’s brave offenders, he looks upon
robbery as a legitimate business.
Professor Kernoh, who occupies the
of civil engineering in the University of Melbourne,
is probably the wealthiest savant in Au c tr iPa. It
was mainly through the professor’s gend offices,
by the way, that Louis B r ennan was enabled to
successfully work out his torpedo-puzz'e.
Someone uusuccessful’y tried to wreck
with a log the special tra'n convex mg Governor
Loch to Charlton (Vic ) Ag"icult”ral Show. It is
believed in Orange Lodges and other we’l-in formed
circles that the instructions to execute this dia-
bolical crime were received direct from Parnell.
4 new-chum reporter was lat°ly doing the
Melbourne C'ty Cmwt After an important case
had been decided be asked the gigantic solicitor
for one o' the parties to state his own name and
tajat till*. " What r angrily roared the Htalc
attorney, “have ye never halrrd tell o Mr.
M’Kean ! Where war ye reared and educated,
mm?’
iRKt&^-L Ti “ brisfcle! ,md
lener but for the de.ectatiou of our readers we will dig oat
f-om their mud any stray shreds of argument that may be
discernible, and demonstrate thei* rottenness.
A little girl 10 years old was found a few
days ago smoking cigarettes in a Chinaman s den
at Alexandria (N.S.W.).
From a Melbourne paper After the
adjournment”—of the Brunswick Borough Council
—“ Councillor Fleming challenged Councillor Crook
to fight, and soon the two councillors were en-
gaged in a wild grapple with each other. They
were separated before muoh harm was done.
We are afraid the House of Bruns wick must be
dose to the public-house,
Treasurer Br "13 ought to heavily tax
butterine made 3or outside N.S.W. America,
raised £145,000 from this source last financial
year.
A man who seems in a hurry to annex a.
wife through the medium of Sydney E. Nooze,
says, “ Dolls need not apply.” His insult to Pott4
Point only cost sixpence.
Some cruel joker lately placed nitrate ofi
silver in the beds and powder-boxes of the bar*,
maids of a certain new Sydney hotel. The girls;
are now sported, but the joker isn’t.
The committee of the Medical Society of t
Victoria are sorry they spoke about Dr Spring-
thorpe’s celebrated circular. The London Col*
lege of Physicians finds that the Melbourne prac*
titioner’s circular was quite in order, and wants to,
know, yerknow, why it was sent home for disap-
proval. This is rather a cough-drop for the-
clique of interested parties who started the
trouble. They are drawing up a document ex«-
plainirg “ why ” in a roundabout way, instead of
cabling home the reason in one word —“ Spite."-
At Penrith (N.S.W.) the otbey-
day, a vagrant faced the Police Court
music, and before the Binch could
Are off a single reproach, he said :
“I submit ■ jour Worship’s deci-
sion, whatever it may be; but please
do not Ijrture me—the thing has*
grown monotonous." We like this
vagrant much His little quip con*
tains a most excellent lesson for cer-
tain popularity-hunting judges who
never can send the most common-
place criminal to gaol without firing
off a long, dreary, stereotyped yam
intended solely for the reporters
and containing not one single word
of any interest to anybody under
Heaven.
Ninian Melville wants to know,
you know, all about “ Dr.” Bottrell’s
claim to a portion of the foreshore of
Sirius Cove. Now, what's the matter
with the inquisitive Ninny 1 “Destroy-
ing angel 1 Why art thou commis-
sioned thus to smite our most promis-
ing youths ?” Relentless demon 1 how
many hast thou sent untimely to
Gladesville by thy merciless connun-
drums ? By wbat infernal subtlety
hast thou got hold of the secrets con-
nected with the serious case of th©
Sirius Cove land grabber ? Look into
thy heart, yourg man. and write if it
is not true that the unregistered prac-
titioner, the man of herbal humbug
and secret diseases sham, is ever the
best friend that the festive undertaker
hath.
It is not safe to fool with a
Sydney metropolitan transit-offloer
any more than it is to throw a sheep's
trot f er at a policeman —the man who
does either has cause to regret it.
About a fortnight ago one of these
officials approached a 'bus driver, and
said, sweetly : “ Jimmy, I want a
black and-tan terrier. Try and get me
one. Mind, I don’t want you to shtale
it, but just bring the first one you
meet.” “AH right, sir," was the
answer, and for the ensuing week
the 'bus-driver kept his eye lifting
for the terrier, but without any suc-
cess. At the end of that time the
transit man pulled him up for over*-
crowding, and had bim fined 205., and
next day he approached him again.
“ You know, Jimmy,” he said, “ I'd
sooner summons my own brother than
you .» “ Yes, I know, I know ;
but then you didn’t get that adjec-
tive dog.” They haven’t been friend©
since.
For pure, whole-souled, self-
sacrificing magnanimity Melville,
M.P. and undertaker, is without a
peer in New South Wales. It may
be that he has learnt this virtue by
means of his long and intimate con-
nection with memoers of Parliament,
perhaps it is that he was vaccinated
for it. But he has got it, anyhow.
Of that fact he gave an avalanche of
proof last week. It was this way. He
was waiting till the truculent tram-
car came along, when an elderly
gentleman meditatively walked on to
the tramline, and calmly waited
there. In another sjcond the knock-
out between the meditative one and
the tramcar would have started. Bub
Melville was adjacent. Seizing th©
prospective corpse with both hands,
the legislator pulled him out of the
track—pulled him from the narrow,
four-foot way which leadeth to the
grave when the trams are around,
and thus rescued him from the neces-
sity of acting prominently at an in-
quest. Melville saved a life, but h©
1-st a death. Not only lost a case -a
cberry-case —to the trade, thus post'
poning the long-desired boom in the
coffin industry, but actually cheated
himself out of a client. The corps©
would have been Ninny’s surer than
sin, for it is a queer kind of under-
taker who can’t secure a client who.
dies in sight of him that way.
Generosity so pure and rare as that,
on this occasion exhibited by Ninian
would be degraded by a dukedom.
The enterprising Union Steamship Co. of
New Zealand has decided to open a trade with
Norfolk Island in the hope that that hitherto
almost inaccessible dot of land may one day be*
come the sanatorium of the Australian colonies.
The little isle is situated only 900 miles from
Sydney. It is 18 miles in circumference, and
within that tiny space it embraces some of the
loveliest scenery known in the Pacific, and its
handful of inhabitants-Borne 700 in all—are a
primitive race who run a model Republic ot
their own far from the madding crowd, and
pass their own laws, subject to the approval
of the Governor of N.S.W. There are one or two
small stores, no hotels, no hospitals-none being
required, no liquor-the Chief Magistrate only
being allowed to dispense small quantities as
I medicine at the order of the medical officer, no
gaol, and no miscellaneous curaednese, but there
are abundance of fishing, riding, dancing, picnics,
: tennis, and cricket, and a fellow's creditors don t
generally go there after him. Also, private ward
with piano ”) is cheap and comfortable, ana
the aooursed hash is unknown.


(I JMcIjMSAJN 880-R, XLIGG A GO.,
' IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANT# ,
51* GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
<o
C
<5
s^
IRONMONGERS
512
X
o
V
o.
REG?
S
SPECIALITIES l
Darla’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Faint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
QAS COOKING STOVES I—LEONIS FLETCHER'S, JEANS ft WALKER S
BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES, ftO„ ftC,
YOUR HEALTH!
AGAINST ALL RISKS!!
WRITS FLUID MA6HESIA.
[ tc
Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the Secretions,
d Fortifies the System against the Shafts of Disease.
the best aperient for children.
NUMEROUS GOLD MEDALS.
OR TO ALL OT
Medical Testimonials, Analysis, &c., accompanying each bottle).
HER
'fAKE
ONLY KRUSE’S.
S°ld in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d.. and 3s. 6d. each.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., Melbourne.
Jeeth like pearls,
fully tr.pr.nf 1 .? perfect freedom from decay, a healthy action of the pirns, and delight-
ed Using breath can best be obtained by discarding gritty tooth powders and acid washes
Odonto
* white powder composed of the most recherche ingredients of the
J., e teeth ? ree * IO,u ali y gritty or deleterious ingredients; it w hitens amt 1
DPS,;.. JH '* VeiltK A T If] o rro.tn ,1 . I .... ]
treservofl
- ©aivwj \ji vgcuui/csi n'uo niKHxucnwi, n va miens aim |i
P f r *~u . * a, * ( * arrests decay, eradicates scurvy, strengthens the gums, ana gives a
®>Rhly bcn«&£h. a i C ? 11,0 brea'h. » hlle its anti-septic and anti-scorbutic propert'
Past.j __uencial influence .... t h. ........... .u£V .11. ■
Paatea
Poi,
, properties exercise a
“es can noswiKiTtl oc'iceim the teeth ami gums. AU Dentists allow that neither washes or
"Krittv imH I ,e as efficacious for polishing the teeth and preventing decay as a pure and
..yt ? oth powder: such BOWLANDS’ ODOXTOJias always proved itself.
is now sold in a golden colour tor
No other'Odonto is genuine.
,w *W- ANDS ’ macassar oil
soidoti-I,aired people sun children.
? 6 J?cta, arm L " 4 KALY 0 OR beautilioa the comulev .n, erad all eutaneoni
”'i«. „.T ler >ders the skir. ...... smooth and delicate. Ask anywhere f... ituWLANDS
1 Hutton Garden, I.ondon, and avoid a curious and pernicious imitations.
ad -a • all cutaneous
ire for BOW;
pernicious imitations.
and Retail Agentß— Elliott Bros., and H. Probbhb & Co., Sydney.V*
T. WILLIAMS & 00..
IMPORTERS 07
British & Foreign Boots &” Shoes £
Alio Minofaotureri of
Thb Finest Quality or Goods in the above Lines.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
s ODA water.
®iW Water Eg,
Rtt r
®«eotp,® lL L, SYDNEY,
rit y Guaranteed.
FREE
PRESCRIPTIONS are to
be found In the “LIGHT AND
life;," for the speedy cure of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &o. A copy of
book will be Bent free, sealed. Address—
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmaoy,
76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches i
61 PITT-STREET, and 638 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve fund ... ... 600,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commer
cial and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
Prince of Wales Hotel,
MACKAY (QUEENSLAND).
FIRST-CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and families, private sitting
rooms without extra charge.
Billiard Room, plunge and shower Baths, large
Sample Rooms.
MARTIN GIBSON,
Proprietor.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
PATENT
PILLS.
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nerrous disorders,
such as wind and pam
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams.and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, Ac. The first
__ dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
done it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer ia
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEECHAM’S
PILLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the system. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to wcrk wonders upon th*>
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society; and one of the
Lest guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,,
l.eecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi
etdty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these
Pills stand unrivalled ; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove tnat they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Bxxcham's
Gough Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be
removed. ,
Caution. —The public are requested to notice that
the words “ Beecham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9(1.
each. —Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Commercial Hotel, Gympie, Queensland,
DklM 5 " 1
THE above Is one of the oldest Family and
Squatting Hotels in the colony. Prioei
reasonable. Sample Room.
Superior accommodation. Hot and Cold Baths.
Mrs. W. COMPIGNE, Proprietress.
r ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Met als-
PABIS.Ih7B; CALCU TI A, 1881,
for pre eminent excellence of quality.
Atkiu»on’s Newest Perfumes
FAGR7EA & CYMBIDIIXIYT
are of rare and peculiar 1 rag ranee, ana being
registered can be obtained only of th«
In . entors or their Agents.
ATKINSON’S QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the niowth and
improving the appearance oi the hair,
guaranteed perfectly harnjess
ATKINSON S FLORIDA VTATER
an exceptionally fine perfume foi the hand-
kerchief distilled from the choice.it exotics.
0/ all Dealers , and of the Manufactur
J. & E. ATKINSON,
21, Old Bond Street, London.
k Trade Mark—“ White Rose” on“ Golden
Ek Lyre."
Guinness’ Extra Stout.
FIRST , ' T V C
»ADr W** 1
m
y-iMMiIU
'BO
BASIS’ PALE ALE.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL ANO INDIAN UNUIWOI
LONDON,
By Special Appolnttner*
WHOLESALE AGENTS
W. BALCWIN JOHNSTON I GO.,
Commercial Chamber#, Bond-Hriof Sydney.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF All THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
QUKKN STRBKT. BKIBBANB.
ki iv And ad
High-class Dentistry
at Reform Prices.
ARTIFICIALTEETH
pletesFT
A
MARSHALL BROi
’ DENTISTS
133 ELIZABETH ST
Teeth painlessly extracted under nitrous oxide 1
gas, daily at 11.
_ P A L A C O t¥l7~
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND.
J. CRAMP, Proprietor (late of Rookampton),
CONDUCTED on the same principle aa the
great Melbourne Coffee Palace. A very
large Billiard Room.
Prices as follows6s. per diem, All meals la. od,
r
*JNB
uefns
BRSMTIS
COUGHS
ASTHMA
VtEJ» ONLY »V
TM t ftfl /vS> INSH AM.-
y - RIDGE’S
FOOD
■or INFANTS ano INVALIDS
as an enormous sal® tn England,
Uinow being Introduced Into th»
Colonics.
eta 8u
ii iviry wise mother-will ceriftt
use It.
DR. RIDGE'S nOYAL FOOH MILLS.
IJ
tvery Storekeeper should get a supply,
as fevarv wise mother-will certain!*
.ONDON. ENGLAND.
NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
RB. JONES, Importer and General Agent,
e REMOVED to No. 6 BRIDGE-STREET,
SYDNEY.
AGENTS WANTED to handle onr new lines
of fast-selling Subscription Books, &c., &o.
Full particulars free on application. Address
R. B. JONES, 6 Bridge-et., Sydney.
J
250 PITT STREET,
G(i e Posits received at best Current Bates, 6 per cent, being allowed tor moneys at Call.
of f * this Society has increased fourfold in two years. Shareholders receive 14 per cent, per annum dividend.
J AMES A. TODD. Managbb


ROYAL *«HH»
UITIIYISs
$35
mr/*
qakih o
POWDER
Absolutely Pure.
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without tha aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as oaused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
the Royal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains its full
Strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists,
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government, Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal'Baking
Powder Co., 106 Wall-street, New York U.S.A,
Trade supplied by Moses Moss & Co., Sydney
N.S.W.
P. R. IjARKIM,
IMPORTER,
Family Wine and Spirit Merchant,
PICNIC and WEDDING PARTIES supplied with the Choicest Brands of WINES, SPIRITS,
and BEERS at the most Reasonable Prices, ALL RETURNS BEING ALLOWED FOR.
Notwithstanding the Heavy Customs Imposts, P. R, L. still sells the Best Glass of RUM
BRANDY, or WHISKY 111 THE CITY FOR THREEPENCE'
The SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT Is stocked with all the Leading Brands of WINES,
SPIRITS, &0., whieh are sold by the SINGLE BOTTLE AT WHOLESALE PRICES,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL,
778 & 780 GEORGE STREET, SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
WALLACH BROS.’
35TE1W
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YOKE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AHD
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
'•rtjjLLUSTRATKD CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION,
WALL AOH BROTHERS.
VENI, VIDI, VIOL
mwslTi
For Artistic Posing and
combining safeness and bmn
Photographs or
GHARLEMONT
ROYAL ARCAD& f
STAND PRE-EMINENTLY^^
S
CHOOL OF ARTS HALL, is
kj Queensland.—The $
icensed under the Queensla p 0
Every Company travelling , ono
'or the past 18 months has jlfjfc
>ccupied this Hall, induding
md Leitch, Thornton and JR' _ y
Waur, and Grattan Rigg s > w bo 1 14 fill
dac Mahon’s Dramatic omp „ OH gful ee „ * jtf*
included a brilliant and sue a j tiff
i m *^ ed £ *:iSl^SSf
go, and Mr. MacMahon
ighly pleased with the arra J’i, a fi le® 3 ®.
Managers are requested to h n } n terroP'*°
efore opening to secure * arreto#*
’erms on application to the»^^^
BOY^’
THEATRE
ROCKHAMPTON.
nnilE above is the flngjJjJfljSl
JL Rockhampton for hoi 8 j, oeß* 0 eB *
other Entertainments, and
any term upon jjjg
•
MININO. i
Agent for and
THOS,
E. D.
NINO AND COMMISSI
MINING
CHARTERS TOWERS" «
ask your proper for
FRYS MALTED
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
"AH ORDINARY OOP CONTAINS MORB AOTIVH PROPHB 11
THAN A PINT OP THH BEST ALH OR PORT*®- "
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &o.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmlthlng, Blackamlthlng, Plumbing,
Gasflttlng, Tank and Girder Building, Eleotrio and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTON'S “FLUSH,” “VALVE," and “PAN" CLOSETS, “VACUUM" WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &C.
tele Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Gxhssit Fan Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters,
Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND 9 MACQUARIE-PUCE,
SYDNEY.
Full Partioulaes and Psion on Application.
Custom House Hotel,
BUNDABERG.
First-class Accommodation for Squattera, Com-
mercial Travellers, and others.
*r Private Suites for Families.
Plunge and Shower Bath. Billiards.
Baggy meets every steamer.
HARRY MoCANN, Proprietor.
NORTHUMBERLAND HOTEL, Gympie.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
WINES AND SPIRITS OF THE CHOICEST
BRANDS.
J. F. E. STEWART, Proprietor, j
Belle Vue
gO
Opposite Parliament House > ]nl
and
gota
CU Ib *
✓
FIRST-CLASS
ACCOMMO
A Waiter M3etaEj orf
Letters and telegrams P
prietor, g,
THIS SPACB RESERVED FOR E. ROWLANDS.
©
BURROUGHES & WATTS
OF SOHO SQUARE, LONDON, HAVE NOW OPENED
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY IN THE COLONY
For their world-renowned Prize Medal
BILLIARD TABLES 1 BAGATELLES
BILLIARD CUSHIONS RE-STUFFED ON THE PREMISES
By Patent Process (same Cushions as used by London Players).
CLOTHS, CUES, BALLS and all other Requisites for the Game in stock, also
CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS, BOWLS, &c.
7, LITTLE GEORGE ST.,
HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ALSO
LSMBTON QUAY,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
CRITERION HOTEL, NARRANDERA, N.S.W.
First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Plunge and shower bath. ’Bus meets every train.
J. E. PATTERSON,
Proprietor.
Good Sample Rooms.
Robert butcher & co.
Have Removal their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGE-STREET
(B it ween Bathurst and Liverpool Streets.)
WINES, SPIRITS, AND BEERS, in and out of
Bond, at LOWEST RATES.
ibgloFflffr
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOU t
o^'
T,
is
, Jlffc
Kautical, Mathematical, and Scientific lnstrum<
Steamworks and Shop, 334 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, Midway from Hunter-street to
Stock Watch„, *•"* to*™* **■' ** ft- *»«■
1 <»«•»< 1 IVES, Ac * PATENTEE OF THE NEW TBAti»SIX« THEOH. TIIIFOD
titive
i! Comp ol
