

The Bulletin
PO
soya
gg§N§
&
i
Ml
hi 8
111
yIfiTTH
;i
s^W
is
• ■
iv. 'vTjv.,
FOR TWO WEEKS OISTFY.
STEVENSON BROTHERS’
FIRST GREAT CLEARANCE SALE
JUST COMME3STOE3D.
STEVENSON BROTHERS
. 4:04:, G-EO
I . Opposite^-Australian,'.!ointfStoek r ßank and i.ext Sydney Arcade.
•*** Special Notice. —STEVENSON BROTHERS have iust commenced their First GREAT CLEAR-
ANCE SALE in Sydney of Watches, .Jewellery, and Silver Plate—choice and first-class goods will be sold
at LOWER PRICES than ever charged in Sydney or Australia. Goods almost given away. All stock
is fresh, and of the very latest description. The Sale will last for TWO WEEK ONLY. 3very article
is marked in large plain figures.
- <*■ MB& ' " '
Clocks, Good Timekeepers—saie price, 3s. (let; usual price, Gs.TM.
„ with Alarms—sale price, Is. 6d.; usual price, Bs. 6d. * -J
~ !in Large Ornamental Cases—sale price, 10s. 6d.; usual price, 2ls.
» -t-t t ™ Vlarm ’ Patent Pendulum, and Striking Movement—sale price, 12s. 6d.; usual price, 253.
Large Hall Clocks, Beautifully Polished Cases, over 5-ft. long—sale price, £5 10s.; usual price, £l2 12s.
-J- J 3 Striking Clocks, showing Day of Month and Week—sale price, £3 10s. usual price, £6 6s.
Marble Clocks almost Given Away.
Every Clock in stock is marked down to Sale Price,
SILVER PLATE*
All Plate is Guaranteed. No Common Plate kept in stock.
Large Revolving Cruits, 4 bottles—sale price, 10s. 6d.; usual price, 21s.
Ditto 5 bottles—sale price, 11s. 6d,; usual price, 255.
Pickle Cruets -sale price, ss. 6d.; usual price, 12s. 6d.
Double Pickle Cruets, highly finished—sale price, 17s. 6d.; T usual price, 355. !
Napkin Rings—sale price Is. 3d.; usual price, 3s.
Children’s Mugs— sale price, ss. 6d.; usual price, 12s. 6d.
Epargnes. 27 inches high and 24 inches wide—sale price, £lO 10s.; usual price, £2l.’
11 kinds of Superior Cruets and Electro-plate of every descriptionfmarkeu a own Ito
Sale Prices.
WATCHES*]
Engusn, Geneva & Waltham Watches— Silver and Gold—of every kind, tolbe cleared at
Sacrifice prices.
Every , Watches Ticketed, and Patrons can judge value by examining stock. Watches must be
rt inspected to determine their value.
JEWELLERYi
Siamona and Plain, silver and Gold, including Rings, Brooches, Scarf Pins, Chains, Lockets,
Ear-rings, Bracelets, Bangles, etc., etc., in endless variety, all marked at Sale Prices.
The Diamond Brooches worth every penny of £250, will be sold for £l5O.
The same rule holds good with the Sale of our very valuable Diamond Bracelets and Rings,
kf f. ytf:..* gq*STEVENS©»T BROTHERS,
and Importers op Watches,'Jewellery, Plate,
* SYDNEY SHOP—GEORGE ST., (opposite A. J. S. Bank) NEXT SYDNEY ARCADE.
’also, 6 and 20 Rundle St., Adelaide.
r WILLI AM M.'■ S TE V EN S O NT,
'Watch, Clock, and Chronometer,,
WALTER EL STEVENSON,
Manufacturing Jeweller, Silversmith & Gold Chain
s jMaker.
* REPAIRS AND ALL WORIC_GUAR ANTEED.
We occupy'PremiseaPtarger than any otter Jeweller in Australia, and conduct one of the Largest Trades
in South Australia, Queensland, and New South Wales.
All Country Orders receive prompt attention, and are executed at lowest possible rates.
STEVENSON' BUGS.’ SHOP,
L’O riUN'J'LK STiIK&T, AJOKLAIDH.
Pronounced one of the most Elegant, Jewellery
Shops in Australia.
'M
Lw j|
e <ia
SPECIAL NOTICE.—We will spare no effort in securing the Largest Manufacturing and Repairing 'trade in New South Wales.
Watches, r ,Clocks, Chronometers, Musical Boxes, and Jewellery most carefully repaired'at the LOWEST PRICES in Sydney'' All classes of
•Jewellery designed and made to order. US' Special Discount of 5 per cent, allowed to all Intercolonial Buyers.
(NEW GOODS! NEW PRICES! NEW GOODS!
STEVENSON BROS.’ WORKSHOP, where many Skilful Jewellers, Watchmakers, Silversmiths, Goldsmiths, Diamond Setters,
and Gold Chain Makers are engaged. The One Hundred Guinea Adelaide Gold Cups, The Wentworth Jockey, The South
Australian Grand Cricketing Challenge Chip, and numerous other Trophies, have been designed and manufactured
by Svkvenbon Bros.
'
mmm
S.fJRUE R
iMim f
One of the adislaidk Gold'Oitps,
Designed and Made by
STEVENSON BROS.
To tho order of Sir Thos. Elder.
Value, 100 Guineas.


ASK FOR COLONIAL-MADE
Wire
PROOF
PROOF
4*
rf
Netting !
BRAND.
Cheaper! than,/ Imported.
MANUFACTURED BY
LTSAGHT BROS. & CO.. Limited.,
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SYDNEY.
'MoLEAIf J3BOS n BIGG * CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.’
*
///
o
•‘V-
s
IRONMONGERS
*
m
n
REG?
&
mi
SPECIALITIES I
Davis’ Sewing MaoMne, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo (larbon Light
ELECTRO PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
GAS COOKING STOVES !—LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S
BRA]
WASHING MACHINES, &0., &C,
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 and 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
FLEMING’S
Wr.IABT,K
BUGGIES
ran shade
mbs, :
« DAL ITT,'
and
SHUSH,
Iv by AIX the
VIM WttiMi.
■tf HOW CHEAP
racrv how good*
€5
X Hi i
i
I'X It.
FLEMING’S
WAGGONS
AND
Harness,
Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
(or all purposes.
Cali, and Inspect
%
-ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES Sc PRICES* POST FREE -
Ml
356 GEORGE ST SYDNEY.
FiaiJo, Organ # Music Importers,
largest stock and greatest Variety in Australia - giving yie,
'the Widest?possible choice;- PIANOS from £/»<), ORGANS from IN-
PAYMENT BY MONTHLY INSTALMENTS TO SllT-ALk CUSTOMERS
PWQKBSI& PALING s,<s ' PALING it 0>
sdf
SINGER
and Co.’B
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap
JOHN DANES,
80S PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PLATE, SHEET, and ORNAMENTAL
WINDOW GLASS
White Lead, Oils, Colours, Varnishes, &c.
Baperhangings, Dadoes, Friezes, &c.
Mouldings, Backboards, and Toilet Glasses
Overmantels, Silvering and Bevelling.
ADETRALIAH GLASS COMPANY, Lim„
281 GEORGE STREET.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —The A. G. Co. are selling
the above goods at a large discount from usual
being the stock taken over from Mr. A.
iwiok.
nquvrie wiH have prompt attention.
rpHB REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER
Saves labour, stationery, and time, writing much (aster
than expert pen-men, and condensing matter t® less than
one-half the space occupied by pen writing. Beautiful
copies may be taken in the usual manner in the letter-preßS
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY & CO.,
410 Kent-streeb.
Z-tabinet's.
s
,/p/0.
Hard mm Bros.
/ GOLDW*
( ig,
TRIA& 1
tiff/ft fo s
iai4»nii)HMmn»HUifHinMUiun
ANUFA€TUK£KS
esr&
mmmm
hcad Office & Factory. Newtowm
Branch.
“BOOKS.”
ANGUS &
ROBERTS 05
Any Book You Want.
HI MARKET STREET, gEDICEY.
Large Btook and second-hand Books. Price of any book on appU^^^P
mail to any part of Ana lia.
SICK*
sxo
T. WILLIAMS & CO..
IMPORTERS OF
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Also Manufacturers of
The Finest Quality of Goods in the above Lines.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
I#
of s
mu
U
-T-.
MXSOMASSNS
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY.
Guinness’ Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY,
BASS’ PALE ALE
SOLE PURVEYORS to bhf
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBIT! I **.
LONDON,
By Special Appointment,
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALK? '
W. BALCHIN JOHNSTON & m
Commercial Chambers, Bond- tlnn .
DR. O’CONNELL has Removed from his old
quarters, Opposite, and has been compelled
owing to his health and age to alter his hours of
consultation to 10 a.m. till 2.30 p.m. daily;
Saturdays, 10 a.m. till noon ; no consultation on
Sundays or holidays. Dr. O’Connell needs no
.dvertising, as all of his patients who have con-
sulted him, and have been cured of lbst vigour,
health, and vitality, will make it known to their
friends, who can write and be cured.
Address —
Dr. J. O’CONNELL,
57 Castlerkagh Street,
Sydney.
THE GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL,
Charlotte-place and Georg e-street.
K. HMIEY’S
1 DOZEN n A R-R1
OF ASSORTED
WINES, SPIRITS, and MALT LIQUORS,
IDELIVERED ANY PART OF CITY FREE.
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer. Order the ldoz. case as
you please from the list of low prices as under, viz.:—
Robertson’s, Walker or Royal Blend Scotch Whiskies 4s 6d.
Dunville's Shamrock and Burke’s XXX Irish do. 4s. 6d
Brian Boru Whisky
Hennessy’s * Cognao
***
i. ed.
ss. 6d,
' .. 6s. 6d.
„ 4s. 6d.
„ 4s. 6d.
4s. 6cL
2s. and 2s. 6d.
Square Gin „
Jamaica Rum .. .. „
Red Heart do.
Flasks Brandy and Whiskies .. .. „
English Ales and Stout, best brands Is. or 11s. 6d. per dozen
Port Wine, for connoisseurs and invalids .. 6s.
Port Wine and Sherry from .. .. 2s,
Best brands Whisky or Brandy from 20s. per gallon.
dS3 CASE ALSO A SPECIALITY.
Superior ACCOMMODATION for Travellers. Every
attention afforded to Visitors from the country. The DiAKng
rooms are conducted under the supervision of Mrs. Hanney,
late of Wellington (N. Z.), which will be a guarantee that her
Guests will receive every attention. The Best Brands of
Wines, Spirits, and Beers always on hand. New Zealand
papers kept on file. *
rjlHiß CLIMAX OF PERFECTION
MONTSERRAT
LIME FRUIT JUICE SAUCE,
[SOM) EVERYWHERE,
UERfl*.
IMKE E - n “ t
MISOI * *#«
CONQ
9«x»om * sons
"'““nailfo?
“c'h AMP'S
mow * sow*
CtfT.h*S
ICJIUBTORW
OE4KETTE GOLD
“ VICTORIA
GRAND JUBILEE Wo *? e „
A PRI?E of £25 will g ltll te,
A of the Mechanics ln^“ egr^4: ;
Competitors who can for® f tb« le Lt«'V',':
modern English words <>_ - at>f he sll® «
in “ Victoria Gueli’H. meS r j «V,
geographical or proper n 0I)e "° t
letter to he nsed
•‘ i” in Victoria. lope , t°L W
of words in a sealed envelop, ■”
postal-note money °rde r > 01
the value of two shilling >j pe
dersigned. Such i;atfl
View’d t 0
iirf.!
= lists
6 o’clock p.m.'on Her 1 f0Ii „
June, 1887, and opened .m (jje
presence of the Commit pufchjv l f l
name of the winner
tralasian. DAVID G- , el , a ng' ..
the Mechanics’ Institute .
High-class [Dentistry
si
; C
marshal
r\ rMf 15 ' >
133 ELIZ
Teeth painlessly
dfs
df
sd
jftgN IHOVW
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
large
WITH
NEWEST?
highest
AT
lowest
STOCKS
esichs
cosJ !
A
'J
/
00
lA
LOCOMOTIVES, TU® S, c o^
ESTIMATE 15 E o *®*
II
Sydney:
HI, WTT STRE6I
0
J -
Desiga*


The Bulletin
Vol. 8 -No. 383
SATURDAY, JUNE 4, 1887.
Prio Cd.
"Imperial Federation in a Nutshell.”
AUSTRALIA (to John Bull): “IF YOU AND I FEDERATE ON THE BASIS OF A DIFFERENTIAL TARIFF IN YOUR FAVOUR, I PRESUME IT WILL MEAN CHEAP
GOODS F or ME? THE LABOUR YOU EMPLOY 13 TOLERABLY CHEAP, ISN’T IT?’
JOHN BULL: “OH, YES, PRETTY CHEAP. I PAY, SAY, A POUND A WEEK ALL ROUND.”
YONG HO: “ONE PONG EVERY WEEK! WHY, ME WELLY MUCH CHEAPER! ME PAY ONLY SIXPENNY ONE MONTH!
AUSTRALIA: “AH MR. BULL, IF I DO FEDERATE WITH ANY FOREIGNER IT MUST BE WITH YUNG HO. HE OFFERS ME SO MUCH THE BETTER BARGAIN.”


THE BULLETIN.
ri KLISH£D ONCE A WEEK,
AT 24 PiTT-STRKET, SYDNEY, N.P.W,
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable In Advance, onlyi.
Par annum - £\ Os. Od.
Half-yearly - O 12s. Od
Quarterly - - - - O 6s. 6d
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters
payable to
J. M. HARDING,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should bo addressed.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shilling,
iterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One-
pound Note, or Btampa of any Australian oolony—you can
hare Tug Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is n t open to residents of Sydney In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in
the hands of our oarriers, with whom we do not wiah to inter-
fere.
Recent political events, and the tenor of letters
published in the N.S.W. country press, render
the announcement necessary that' Mr. John
Havnes, M.L. A. for Mudgee, has no longer any
connection whatsoever, either commercial or
literary, with Thu Bulletin.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, JU>K 4, 1887.
Disintegration Before Federation.
After a temporary outburst of half hearted
enthusiasm the cause of Australian Federa-
tion has been allowed, by the majority of
colonial statesmen, to sink almost into obli-
vion. The grand project by which the
English-speaking laces of the South Pacific
were to be united into a powerful nation,
strong for all purposes of defence and pre-
pared to speak with one voico whenever it 3
lights or liberties were threatened, has re-
sulted only in the formation of a disjointed
league, which was crippled at the very out-
set by the defection of three of the most
important colonies of the Australian group,
and which, so far, appears to lack almost
every essential element of cohesion. The
British Government, which might have done
much to promote the cause of union, has
been more anxious to establish a great Im-
perial league as a means of foreign aggression
than to aid a movement, the objects of which
were entirely peaceful, and by a lavish dis-
tribution of meaningless titles has done its
utmost to show our venal statesmen that
the advocacy of British rather than Aus-
tralian interests is the shortest road to royal
favour. The comparatively feeble hold
which the Cabinet at London has upon these
colonies rendered it difficult for even the
most Conservative of English ministers to
offer any open opposition to the federal
movement in Australia, but the entire pro-
ject was at variance with the spirit of
Diskaklian statesmanship in almost every
particular. In a united form the rising
nation of the Pacific would bo likely to prove
an unwieldy and overbearing member of the
filibustering confederacy which it is fondly
hoped will one day overshadow the globe
and make the fairest portion of this earth a
prospecting ground for the apostles of British
gin and British bayonets, and a Federal
Council, backed by the entire strength of a
new continent, would be too apt to ask the
reason why, instead of yielding unquestion-
ing obedience, when called upon to assist in
settling foreign quarrels on the banks of the
Danube or in the defiles of the Hindoo*
Koosh. As a weapon to be used in the
cause of British Jingoism a divided Australia
would be of inestimably greater value than a
league of eight powerful colonies, and the
colonial politicians who have done their
utmost to retard A ustralian Federation for
the greater honour and glory of the British
Crown, deserve, for that act, to be remem-
bered with execration on the pages of history
as long as history shall endure.
But, unhappily, Australia is in some sense
at war with herself, and even the partial
union which has been already effected is
hollow and untrue. The Conference which
met at Hobart nearly two years ago was
little better than a mutual admiration society
of self-appointed delegates who represented
animosities rather than interests, and who,
by the very circumstances of the colonies
from which they derived their authority,
were totally unfitted to legislate in the name
of a united nation. The present artificial
divisions of Australia appear to have been
devised for the express purpose of promot-
ing discord, and, although this continent is
even now only beginning to be populated, it
is already evident that complete disintegra-
tion is required before any real system of
federation can become possible. The curse
of over-centralisation enables four large
cities to exercise almost absolute control
over as many important colonies, and the
inhabitants of the country districts have
been so long accustomed to see their in
terests sacrificed to those of their respective
capitals that their views have become nar
rowed ; their energies are all absorbec
in scrambling for local concessions, anc
a parochial question regarding a new
bridge or a public school becomes o
vastly greater importance than a matter
which affects the future well-being of an
entire continent. In more than one in
stance, too, this jealousy has developed into
active hostility, and the colonies which it 1
proposed to unite are themselves disunitec
and on the verge of disruption. To the in
habitant of Northern Queensland, Brisbane
is now a Nazareth out of which no gone
thing can come, and when Sir Samuel Gkif
fith and his servile colleague profess to
speak in an Australian Council in the name
of that State they are well aware that two-
thirds—in point of area—of the colony which
they represent would gladly repudiate their
words if only because of the personality oi
the utterers. The Welsh lawyer who poses
as the patron of the Chinaman and the
heathen virtually speaks for the merest
fraction of a vast dependency. Northern
Queensland has, so far, had no real voice in
tho question of Australian Federation, and
when a Parliament sitting at Townsville
has an opportunity to pronounce on this
great question it may resolve on a policy of
isolation, as much from hatred towards its
ancient tyrant and his policy as from sober
conviction. And the politicians of New
South Wales, when, in adhesion to Dalley’s
grovelling theories of “loyalty,” they pre-
ferred to stand aloof from a movement which
tended towards national rather than imperial
union, spoke also in the name of a disunited
people. The Riverina district is, in all but
the name, Victorian territory, and its in-
habitants, though forced to accept the re-
sults of the tortuous policy which prevails in
the Assembly at Sydney, have but little
sympathy with it at any time, whether in its
external or internal relations. Tho northern
districts of New South Wales are openly
disaffected, and are anxious to repudiate all
connection with the Parliamentary prize-
ring which curses in their name and makes
them sharers in its folly and disgrace ; but
they, too, were dragged along as victims to a
policy which was prepared to sell the cause
of Australian union for Glory, a Donkey, and
a Goat ; and the Northern Territory, in this
as in every other matter, could only speak
with the voice of a colony to which it was
united by nothing save a load of debt and a
telegraph-wire across the desert. Amidst all
these difficulties, Australian Federation can
hardly be said to have had even the sem-
blance ef a fair trial.
• # •
Disintegrationand a re-division into States
has now become one of the most urgent re-
quirements of this continent. At the pre-
sent moment Brisbane no more represents
Queensland, nor Sydney, Now South Wales,
than Berlin does the views and requirements
of Alsace-Lorraine, and the spirit of seces-
sion is everywhere abroad. Northern
Queensland especially is loud and almost
unanimous in its demands for freedom, but
the brute force of the Southern majority
obstinately refuses the concession. In a
democratic community the voice of tho
people is—in theory—the voice of a god,
but the barren pride and the earth-hunger of
Brisbane statesmen lead them to treat their
fellow countrymen rather as conquered ene-
mies than as free citizens, while, true to its
Imperial instincts, a British Government
engaged in brutally coercing an Irish mino-
rity refuses to permit Separation unless
granted with the consent of the Assembly
which, by its actions, has made Separation
imperative. But as population increases, the
necessity for a readjustment of boundaries
will become more and more apparent all
over the continent. The huge, unwieldy
colonies which now disfigure the map of
Australia require to be broken up into a
multitude of small states, each with an
elected Governor and its own Legislature,
and then—and not till then— will genuine
federation become practicable. The pious
politicians of Adelaide, who waste their sit-
tings in discussing the clauses of a prayer to
be recited at the opening of an exhibition,
cannot legislate for ever in matters connected
with a tropical land in the Far North which
few of them ever saw, and which they hardly
know except as a barbarous region where
there are gold and sugar and alligators
and fevers, and thousands of Chinamen and
all manner of red-shirted wickedness ; and
the diggers and sugar-planters of the Gulf
will not endure much longer the rule of the
auctioneers, and publicans, and insolvent land
brokers of Queen-street, Brisbane. Every
million added to the population of Australia
will be accompanied by demands for more
and more separation until the continent is
divided into states of manageable dimensions,
and to resist such demands is struggling with
fate. The unwieldy empire of Alexander,
whore half Asia turned on the pivot of the petty
kingdom of Maeedon, had as many elements of
stability as the overgrown colonies which are
now held together m defiance of all the laws of
reason and expedience and political gravita-
tion.
The outlay required to maintain a multi-
plicity of separate governments is now
urged as one of the chief reasons why a
continent, which nature intended for di-
vision into at least twenty states, should be
compressed into five cumbrous provinces, but
this so-called reason is hardly worthy of
notice. Australia, at present, is governed
too much, and is yet governed to very little
purpose. Officers have been multiplied for
the more purpose of corruption, and the
theory that the subdivision of the colony in-
volves a vast and inevitable increase of ex-
pense is only based on the supposition than
this corruption is necessarily to last for ever.
In reality, however, a small state requires
governing machinery only in proportion to
its population ; it needs no great array of
parliamentary representatives or cabinet
ministers such as may be expedient in larger
States, and, above all, it can dispense with
the luxury of a nominated foreign Governor
whose pomp must be proportioned to his
rank, and whose salary increases in direct
ratio to his “social ' importance and his
ignorance alike of the country and its re-
quirements. An elective Governor is not
only likely to prove more useful and less
expensive, but he accords better with the
views of a people who are for the most part
indillerent to the imported elegance of a brain-
less man with nothing to do. The boss
Janissary who is supposed to act as head of
the colonial forces in time of war and head
of the State in time of peace, is, as a rule, a
personage who knows little of campaigning
and less of statesmanship, and in his person
one of the chief objections to the re-division
of Australia may safely be struck off the list.
* * #.
Lastly, if federation is to succeed in Aus-
United States, it is essential that the repre-
sentatives of each colo ly should be. elected
directly by the people. The system by which
a Premier appoints himself and his chief but-
toner to sit in the highest council of the
nation is too hazardous to bo continued
long without disaster, and it places an-
amount of power in the hands of one man
which few can be trusted to exercise rightly.
In many cases it happens that the head of
tho Government owes his seat to the suffrages
of the electors in some obscure village, and
achieves power by a happy accident, by
treachery, or by compromise. In many
respects his views may be those of his own
constituency only, and tho statesman who
speaks on behalf of an entire commonwealth
should bo chosen on no such narrow and un-
certain basis, but should hold his position by
the clearly expressed will of the people.
Australian Federation has, so far, been a
failure chiefly because it has been run upon
strictly Conservative principles which have
rendered the Federal Council little better
than a committee of irresponsible nominees.
The New Zealand Legislature, where the
Stout-Vooel combination reigned upon suf-
ferance and clung to office in spite of defeat
after defeat, naturally objected to a
scheme 1 y which a c up!e of persons, who
did not even pretend to possess the con-
fidence of the House, should he des-
patched to a place where they could legislate
without any criticism or interference except
what they might receive from a mutual ad-
miration society of Premiers, some of whom
were in almost equally bad case. In New
South Wales the most important question
almost of the century was settled by the
Parliament which disgraced itself by con-
doning the Soudan piracy ; tho opinion
of the country was never taken on the mat-
ter, and in South Australia it was dealt with
in a somewhat similar fashion. A scheme
by which a new nation was to be created
was disposed of almost as cavalierly as if it
had been an invitation to free drinks, and
the nation was hardly even asked if it cared
to be created or not. As it happened, how-
ever, this point was of little importance. A
league formed by a union of colonies, some
of which were themselves well-nigh falling
asunder, was hardly likely to be permanent
Disintegration and Decentralisation are the
first wants of Australia, and true Federation
will be only possible after they have been
achieved.
The Relics Speak.
Parkes is the political fox without a tail. The
tail is Respectability. The want of it as a
posterial covering is always troubling the old
man. He keeps trying to get imitation ones to
stick on, and then goes around drawing attention
to his extremities. No politician ever talked so
much about his “ principles” and “hintentions ”
as Parkes does, and yet everyone knows that, as
for principles, ho has none, and all his intentions
are summed up in making himself and his Govern-
ment gee. “To successfully conduct Govern-
ment,” as he said the other day, that is the be-all
and end-all of Sir Henry Parkes. His last re-
spectability self-advertisement dodge was to
gather together all the fossil remains of our
primal legislators and gave them a dinner. There
were 62 members of our first Australian Legisla-
tive Assembly. Twelve attended the feed, eight
were either in England or in the country, one was
“somewhere in Queensland,” and the remaining 11
(who are dead) were in various other cli-
mates. Of these 62 old original law-makers
all have dropped off, “full up” of serving
their country in Parliament, save Parkes.
Parkes is the last of the leeches, and he has such
a frightful appetite that he is never likely to be
full up of serving his country until his country is
full up of serving him—which will be presently.
Well, these 21 surviving legislators are nothing,
if not respectable, and that was no doubt
the only reason for which Sir Henry got them
together. He wanted a tail; he wanted to be
respectable, too. There was nothing appropriate
in such a meeting. It was not a fiftieth anniver-
sary ; it was not even a thirtieth ; it was a thirty-
first. “And Mr. Alfred Bennett was also
present.” In the name of Heaven and of the fl
spelling-book, why Mr. Alfred Bennett ?
Parkes opened proceedings, and proposed
first toast. “ I think Queen Victoria,” he sa
“ by far the greatest constitutional monarch tl
England ever had.” The question is, what is
constitutional monarch ? If the constitutiona
monarchs of England mean all the fatuous
utterly imbecile individuals of that great arra;
then it may safely be conceded that poor Victor
is possibly the greatest of them. “Throngho
these 50 years," he went on, “ the reign of o
Queen has been, as it were, an increasing volum
of influence in favor of human progress.” An
ceasing volume of God forsaken nonsense ! Wh
single act of Queen Victoria’s, public or privat
can be cited by anyone as an influence in favo
of human progress l ” We forget. After one
her innumerable acre urhcmtnts she otlicialy warnet
the women of England not to take chloroform
It had not agreed with her. That is one f
“ human progress,” anyway ! “It is impossib
to Eay,” added Sir Henry, warming to his wor
with an affectionate recollection of the oyster
It is impossible to salt that even the emancipation of
slaves of the great republic which speaks our own latiguc
Might-not have been further delayed had it not been for t
uiuler the reign of Queen Vtctoria."
At this all the twenty surviving legislato
present cheered as one antediluvian leech, a
though everybody knows quite well that the sym
pat liy of the Queen and her spouse was, in th
American war, steadily in favour of the South—
the Cotton-cum-Tobaeco-and-Slave Power, and tha
the States bear England a grudge to this day
consequence. “In my judgment," he wound up
“ as compared with any of her predecessors, the presen
Sovereign of the British Empire stands out with anelevatio
of purpose and a grandeur of effect far beyond any other.”
Elevation of purpose ? Grandeur of effect ? Wha
does the man mean} It is a matter of history that th
sole purpose of the Queen from 1837 to 1887, from
Melbourne through Beaconsfielo to Salis
bury, has been to throw all her weight in wit
the soi-disant “aristocrats,” and that she ant
they have miserably failed in setting up in Eng
land an Imperialism like Bismarck and Kaise
William have succeeded in setting up in Ger
many. Is such a purpose elevated 1 Is such an
effect grand ? Class rule, and a miserable failur
at that, sums up the purpose and effect of He
Iracious Majesty Victoria “during these 5
1 ears.”
After the last of the leeches came the last of the
behemoths. Mr. Dailey rose to celebrate the
memory of the dead (who are still ruling N.S.W.
and to propose the health of the moribund whose
rule we are just shaking off. “The toast wa;
drunk in silence.” Not so “our Privy Councillor.’
He was drunk in speech. Perpend, and if this is
not pseudo-Demosthenic rhetoric gone wrong, then
it is the best imitation wo have yet met with in
this vale of tears :
.Sir Henry I’arkes and Gentlemen, —I am sure there is
no one in the community who will not readily appreciate tha
your courteous hospitality to-night is dicta!eel by a just esti-
mate ol the significance, in an historical aspect of the even
which our gathering is intended to celebrate."
What grandiloquent bombast 1 And what a dose
of it he poured into “ the dear departed favour
ites!” Mr. Halley uttered the futile politica
“ blow ” about them that was to be expected, and
Justice 1' aucett sucked it all in, preparatory to
following suit.
Then came “the last political stage of all—
sans eyes, sans teeth, sans scent, sans anything.”
Poor old Sir John Uobertson, with his impo-
tent hatred of the progressive Victorian nation,
was to have his say. “ All over Australasia,” he
said, “ was freedom.”
“ we went “>to such a Billy course as that of the federaii-
Bation of the colonics ; if we did anything of that kind, we
would simply imperil ourselves and our free action, and give
up dealing with the old country. We would give up dealing
with the old country, and would become involved with a
number of other colonies. He hoped we would never do
that.”
The sentimental old pantaloon 1 Back and back
again his poor, fuddled brain came on to that ono
idea, that we might be going to follow Victoria’s
example and exclude the cottons and crockery,
ware, the cloths and condiments of “the old
country.”
"He hoped he ihould never live to see the day when the
ideas respecting the so-called freedom of trade, which would
open our ports to the Australasias and keep out the goods
of Great Britain, would be carried into effect.”
And why, pray? Because we ought to “stand
by the old land that for 100 years has stood by us.”
It has stood by us to save time ! For 100 years it
has steadily run counter to our every interest and
wish, steadily snubbed and flouted us, steadily
sacrificed ns to the pettiest interests of parties,
and even individuals!
Justice Faucett followed up with some
garbled Australian “history” on the same tack.
He gave an account of that precious “ Constitu-
tion ” of ours and of its results.
1 he franchise, considering the times, was very wide and
comprehensive. The consequence was that the people at
large—and he saw no class distinctions—felt that it was
thuir interest to take an active part in public affairs. (Hear
hear.) They felt that by doiug so they had in their own
hands the safety and protection of their dearest interests—
the protection of their lives, their property, and their free-
dom. (Cheers.)” "From time to time tile franchise was
enlarged, extending more widely amongst the people, a rea-
son for taking a still greater interest in the wise and honest
conduct of public affairs,”
And yet everyone knows (it is the common
taunt) that no single Australasian colony
is so politically apathetic as New South
Wales. This is a fact, and being a fact it has a
reason, and that reason is that the people of New
South Wales have all along felt that they had no
hiterest in their Parliament or in any of their
rulers. The Parliament did not represent them.
It does not represent them. Who were, and are,
the members of Assembly ? Squatters, importers’
and lawyers ; and the squatters, the importers"
and the lawyers have legislated in their own,


?"H in their
Sirl! fcad t0put l^;^ reStB ’ aDd the P e °P le
jj o * tlle people on U because representa-
-10 the “nntry f Q aff ° rd to give their
I% B *•* ' n , otMDg ' Tixat is th °
i 48lll)lo i>a-Bueken Va eS legiBlation under
Uens,; . andtheyk —^
Ti got 011 to his leg3 ’
beenfort ned’’ h mpenal Federation.
k,t tWe IWhich1 Which at prc ; ent e Baid ’ ‘‘ no device
Beni on« as a ° Was satisfactory ;
| ljs > e wouM hc * to doubt that as time
' earth T- Wems °/ uniting
IpCJ 0/ «w <?«eel-> Cft ; CreWOW - S ' iraj/cd
H«ted i eu f ° r med rm ' ot only has 110
S( 6 a Ut a °ae ever devi ce been pro-
C^^swaieo 11 be - And why?
k Ci t ° Wa among thp mg hypocritical bully
o,< tt" a n tiona as “ England,”
llj Se ge °a in the a !f iea a Bible in one
er - ha 9 about run
S ijih le arnt to rn U ° n that has to deal
Nc es l Belfl %ess \T downri ght, deli-
Turke y tru^^ enmark t' noted its
I n° !f eia and Bui s ! • ltS assu rances, and
said I are the comment.
r s , tj , Uth f or U 8 all glaDd ’” a nd that is the
Wbtt had
\N,Z ! . t *«Z,ZZ ,I “ ishe
C^iai^instWh o ,' K "elar,d. Quite
>C>Z» ’h W «»i»dat„M
B\ u em °*edf rotn t ta of 17 ™- Both are
of the , escene of European
Sl^^hauh ° ne is Au st °,. 18 moro 80 than
\<;zZ; 4 *r: h **. - *
V f »f 1 81 K ng , an - the Fa P id extern
„ 88 a o le S 3 if d Would carry our
«*lSi 8 8 ,Pendent. . We Were in dependent
ij,;, ’ even if she would
tbe World k 6 Broat commer-
the impetus
:<>%> a C on ; f r ° wn ships
\»e x h^p rocUv [r - Macleay ac-
all ty betwc en England
\N V ° ttr - by r ,L other nations. if
SJ Of *of lah OUI ! ffe " enti al duties, the
Slnhttod if " hy thon lefc ns. in
Voiron 015 of the c / 69trade Principles.
5 Nn, 88,11 good* apa3t labour. J,-
of <;r hav ° a cas,,.,
i!\i Cll (of * 6 Indian nigger j.
the precioua
Bca ne of ; meeting of Sir
g6tl^e, nan t 6 aice Was, of
»' >Cw° Pr ° Pose -“ Other to
health of
|St, tho k . hls nnitation tail
HlrSit? 8 Moored U r° S 01 p °htical and
d ; poa .him. Hewas
Oi pro' L lng attention to
cee ding. however,
M?C° o %i! OUtt he oni a °' Ual veracity,
K < W «-co m ,„ ett , wec „ n
Attorney-General Wise.
|,
< ...
NtS instil aOB Atf. Iri Ptly accepted
*\% is eyiQonoralBhi P‘
»S^ o okfc the New South
SX H J <*. n/ S hope of the Free.
Svsi 6 of S/ tJ Waa hot such a
J !, iS' l tliSC ean ° ll i'ha s t 16 alleged 0-O.M.
IlkN S* y ’ a M H r ri a targe measure
: ho is - -
a t W n th refn • 1 p hrociation of
S>.i>! S B S the Office so
{£\V HeS. a <lvi Ce I ‘ f ßtn took time to
rV\S tif Kt- ‘"S' of th (. men tntimately
(S^"!>C lon of BeCtionof the
V C\S'' 6 f re" u u PPOmtment ifc
MS l 'Me/ 01, huiim S Was that he
\S MM 0 ® ia Th g a P ° Bition
K? v <S> S Assembly.
MS? • d ° Wn iQ it 3
\ \ ? ar e 8111 ce tho general
WSN S'hot e^ 8 , ap P oi hted and
4e P Oy ° dhis wand
S antici Pate.
VNtS sS Q f t , lll au Ufl ’ Republicans
SSStiu 8 of 6 6lect ors Me indig '
' SSu! Sa lvatir, beginning to
mS k » °S t Wag a Vou °hsafed by
\S v Ufl tho n have restored
p,eto, “ Ml
NS \£ C >C“ k »»lcs public
S ' *\JS l,ail formed
>tS jS?S fi cla W has ~ despite his
popular
' tNh Vy. av. ' \V a i 1116 there will
. «w“ oW
l he £ thereof. He
'''otionigta' steel,
while such men as Parkes and Cocky Burns
are beneath contempt. The Bulletin and the
public had hoped, indeed, to see Wise and other
fresh politicians at the head of a new young Aus-
tralian party in the future. But he has elected to
lend himself as a link in the tail of the dirty old
crew and must take the consequences. If he is
re-elected by South Sydney it will only be because
he is not opposed by a sufficiently good man. At
time of writing the [Opposition leaders seem dis-
inclined to contest a bye-election at all, being im-
pressed with the idea that the Freetraders ought
to be allowed to go to the devil in their
own way. But the local Protectionists
are not disposed to stand idly by, and
allow a Ministerial walk over. They are casting
about for a candidate to represent their views,
and have naturally turned their attention to the
forceful and eloquent David Buchanan, who has
got the true “ hang ” of the fiscal problem requir-
ing solution. He was a Protectionist when to be
one was to be regarded as a political monstrosity ;
and has always fearlessly adhered to his faith in
spite of the guffaws of rampant majorities. In
other respects Buchanan is worthy of the hear-
tiest support. He is a true Liberal, and although
he has served in nearly every New South Wales
Assembly since the inception of responsible govern-
ment, his personal honour has never been im-
pugned. As an orator he stands unrivalled in the
mother colony, the remarkable lucidity of his argu-
mentation and his skilful choice of language being in
strong contrast to the involved and flatulent style
of Parkes. The circumstance of Buchanan’s
absence from the New South Wales Assembly is in
any case a matter for national regret; and even
the most maniacal Freetraders of fc outh Sydney
might well sink their prejudices on the fiscal
question with the object of tecuring the return of
so efficient and independent a legislator.
* * *
Another for rejecting Wise in favour
of Buchanan is to be found in the fact that if
Wise’s introduc ion into the Cabinet is endorsed
by the electors Parkes will be more than ever an
autocrat. With the exception of Garrett and
Salomons, all Parkes’ turncoat colleagues are
now either far below mediocrity or too inexperi-
enced to be otherwise than mere tools in the
hands of their chief. Foster was thrown out
because he was not sufficiently plastic to serve as
a colleague for the G O.M. And the choice of
young Wise to fill the place vacated by Foster
ought to be resented by the public as a measure
calculated to give the colony a continuance and
an increase of the one-man-power that has re-
cently been so conspicuous. Wise is a man of
parts, but in years and experience he is a mere
schoolboy. Parkes will be able to manipulate
him with ease, and it was most probably for this
reason that the selection was made. If the elec-
tors of South Sydney are content to see the insti-
tutions of the country under a mere dictatorship
they will considerably increase their reputation
for complacency.
[The Bulletin, portion of which has to be sent
lj press early in accordance with the exigencies
of an paper, learns that Mr. W. H.
Traill has been selected by the N.S.W. Protec*
tion Union to oppose Mr. Wise. Though it con-
siders that Mr. Buchanan would have had a
better chance, it nevertheless recommends Mr.
Traill to the hearty support of the ProtecMonist
and Australian party.]
The Parnell Forgery.
The groat sensation of the Times is already dying,
if not already dead The Tory organ still lifts up
its voice in senile denunciation of the Irish patriot
whom it hates with the unreasoning and unfathom-
able hatred, of aristocratic prejudice, but its at-
tempt to brand Parnell as a murderer and liar
has signally failed, and ere long its broken purpose
will recoil upon itself. The letter on which so
much reliance was placed proves after all to be
the production rather of an unsophisticated Irish
pothouse politician than of a scholar and a states-
man, and were it not for the recollection that the
Times is English Tory, and therefore thick-
headed, it would be difficult to suppose that the
directors of that journal were deluded, even for a
moment, by so shallow a fraud. No doubt decep-
tion was rendered all the easier by the circum-
stance that the vendors of the fletter offered to
prove—no doubt for a sufficient consideration—-
exactly what the Times, in its capacity as head of
the stupid party in English politics, desired, above
all things, to have proven ; but even this does not
fully account for the blindness of the self-appointed
leader of British public opinion, in falling a vic-
tim to an artifice compared to which the Age’s
Russian spy, Pastor Ciiiniquy, the “ Escaped
Nun,” and all the other delusions of the day sink
into insignificance and contempt. The arguments
with which the Times endeavours to defend its
false position are in themselves little less
than ruinous, [Like the majority of Parnell’s
epistles the letter in question purports to have
been written by a secretary and merely signed by
the Nationalist leader, but this point of resem-
blance is itself a damning argument against its
authenticity. The document is just the one pro-
duction of a lifetime which no statesman —least of
all one so cold, silent, reserved, and mysterious as
Mr. Parnell— would submit to the prying eyes
of a subordinate, and the assertion that he wan-
tonly allowed a mere clerk to share so tremendous
a secret passes all belief. So far the imaginary
secretary has not been produced, neither has the
handwriting in the body of the letter been proved
to be that of Parnell’s amanuensis; but this
point appears to have attracted little attention.
The tenor of Mr. Parnell’s whole life shows
conclusively that he is not the man to employ a
hired drudge simply that he might thereby put
his own neck in a noose, and the utter reckless-
ness of the proceeding attributed to him is worthy
only of a suicide or an imbecile.
* * *
Nowhere in England—or Australia, either—
could a banker be found who would pay a cheque
on the strength of so dubious an autograph. The
contested signature—the first on the list—when
compared with those which follow, is full of dis-
crepancies. Curveß and angles are the salient
points by which handwriting must be judged; and
in the forged autograph a curve almost invari-
ably comes where an angle should be, and vice
versa. The initial “C ” commences with an
acute angle in place of a loop, and ends with an
obtuse angle instead of running into the “h.”
The “s” is pointed and well-defined, and Mr.
Parnell’s is shapeless; the “ r,” on the other
hand, is shapeless, while that in the genuine
signature is well-defined ; the final “1” is beauti
fully formed, whereas it should be little better than
a stroke; the flourish at the foot is wanting ; and,
in short, excepting that two of the capital letters
are tolerable imitations, the forgery is of the
clumsiest and most schoolboyish description. The
letter itself is crowded with great difficulty into
one sheet, while the signature appears at the head
of the next, and in the face of this the Times’ own
expert is compelled to acknowledge that, even
supposing the signature to be authentic, the
epistle bears evidence of having been filled in on a
blank sheet to which an autograph had been pre-
viously appended. Here again the case for the
Times collapses at the very outset.
* * *
The strongest point in the indictment against
the Irish leader, however, is his neglect to take
legal proceedings against his traducers, and the
entire Tory press of England is filled with taunts
at his supineness in this respect. But it must be
remembered that the task which Parnbll’s ene-
mies call on him to undertake is one that, if pre-
maturely entered upon, is absolutely hopeless.
The informers by whom the letter was produced
will swear to its authenticity—-if they failed to do
so they would probably pass the greater part of
their remaining years in penal servitude, and Par-
nell can only establish his innocence by finding
and bringing to justice the original forger. Some-
where—anywhere—lost among a population of
more than 30,000.000 souls—probably hidden in
some obscure attic in the slums of an obscure
town, lies the criminal, and unless accident be-
trays his identity ten times the span of an ordi-
nary lifetime would be little enough for such a
hopeless investigation. Or, again he may be
living quietly as an ordinary citizen among the
50,000,000 souls who make up the population of
the United States ; he may be in India, or Aus
tralia, or Africa ; and when found his guilt must
be proved to the satisfac'ion of an English jury
packed by the officials of the Tory Government to
whom his conviction would mean discredit and
ruin. The Times taunts its enemy with cowardice
and conscious guilt, because he does not move at
its convenience and in the face of such stupen-
dous odds as these, but Parnell wisely ignores
their challenge. He will move when he is ready,
and when he does his proofs will be overwhelm,
ing, but till then he pays no attention to the de-
mand that he should carry his unprepared case
before a hostile jury. If he were to speak he
would probably answer with cynical contempt :
“ Yes, I will submit the case to a jury—in Cork."
But it is no part of the Tory programme that the
Irish leader should he put on trial before twelve
of his own countrymen.
At the time of the Phoenix Park assassinations
the National leader placed himself unreservedly in
the hands of his then enemy, Mr. Gladstone, and
that veteran statesman bade him continue at his
post. The Liberal Premier, it is now known, was
the last Minister who resorted to the extreme
measure of reading the correspondence which
passed through the London Post Office—a policy
which he adopted solely with a view to discover-
ing the leaders of the assassination party—
and his conduct towards Mr. Parnell
was sufficient proof that his discoveries had
not in any way connected that statesman with
the dynamite movement. Finally, it is incon-
ceivable that any ordinarily skilful penman wrote
the signature on which the Times’ so-called re-
velations are based. Even that journal’s hired
experts decline to swear to the autograph, while
unbiassed authorities are almost unanimous in
declaring it to be a forgery and a sham. The
document is distinctly the work of a compara-
tively uncultured man, and it becomes more than
ever untrustworthy when we remember that it
was brought to light on the very eve of the divi-.
sion on the Coercion Bill —the moment above all
others when evidence was wanted to discredit the
Irish patry and aid the Government cause. The
coincidence was, to say the least, suspiciously
opportune ; even the gods who watched over the
battle field before the walls of Troy were not
more timely in their interference.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The “Compensated” Corpse.
According to the present Australian system of
compensation for damages sustained in railway
accidents, if a bank-manager earning £5OOO a year
is killed, his widow receives, say, £25,000 to con-
sole her for his loss ; while the widow of a clerk
whose salary was £l5O per annum gets, say, £l5OO.
Perhaps some day a system will be introduced by
which men who die or are injured in railway ac-
cidents will be valued according to the amount
which they pay per mile to the Government. Sup-
pose a leading and penurious Q.C. is travelling
second- class, and gets killed as a consequence of
the fact that the youth in charge at Prahran
station happens to be sucking his feeding-bottle
when he should be listening to the tick of the
telegraph, then that Q. O.’s widow gets compensa-
tion based on the lamented dignitary’s average
yearly earnings, iust precisely as she would had
he been travelling first-class at the time ; while
the widow of the extravagant clerk who dissipated
his £l5O per annum income by paying first-
class fares with the result that his mangled
remains were found beneath a carriage with
morocco upholstering, receives no more than
she would have got had her husband
been killed in the third-class. If compensation
were given in the same proportion as the loss sus-
tained, the small-salaried man’s widow ought to
receive far more than the millionaire’s widow,
simply because she sustains greater loss, or per*
haps all the loss, in having her bread-winner
taken from her; whereas, in the other case, the
wealth remains. In fact, the wealthy man’s wife
might be a positive gainer by his death. The solid
fact is, however, that the State should give no
pensions, no compensation, no limb-bonuses—“ no
nothink.” The Government should share the re-
sponsibility with the public by the establishment
of a life and accident assurance department—and
no more. Let the carriage of passengers be con-
ducted on purely business principles. Qf course
we do not mean to imply that the irresponsible
and criminal negligence of some public companies
is to be imitated Far otherwise. The mere fact
that the Government was the assurer against ac-
cident, as well as the executive carrying power,
would impel it to take every precaution against
accident, and to raise its fares in proportion to the
risk involved. Where criminal neglect could
be proved, let the party or parties culpable be
criminally prosecuted, but put a stop to the system
of granting accident bonuses. It is founded on
no principle of justice or of adequacy to the cases
compensated, and is conductive only to habits of
carelessness on the part of t he public and indifference
to its own responsibilities and interests. At pre
sent, if a man is killed, no matter by what means,
on the railroad, there is a costly process of litiga-
tion immediately instituted by his friends, to the
benefit of the medical and legal professions and to'
the disgrace of the law and the country. An un-
avoidably-broken axle means a setting in motion
of the whole machinery of law with thousands of
pounds expenditure. The only excuse for such
proceedings would be the actual proof of criminal
negligence, which should by departmental or other
enquiry be prima facie established before the case
was brought into a criminal court The precedent
of compensation has been taken advantage of in
every case of railroad accidents for years past,
and the business reflects nothing but discredit of
the Government that allows it.
♦—
A Shameless Rag 1 .
Let us give, in double-column form, extracts from
two articles printed in one and the same issue of
the Sydney E. News, politically the meanest and
most unblushing sheet over Sheol—“the friend of
the workman,” and the enemy of the Trades’-Union
—the most cowardly, unprincipled, and shamelessly
inconsistent mass of muck which ever attained a
general circulation in a white man’s country :
“ When Queen Victoria's
husband died she thought
fit to retire from the world,
and to a great extent neglect
some of the duties of her
high position for a number of
years ; but herein she com-
pares very unfavourably with
thousands of her country
women, who, with as great a
sorrow at their hearts, heroi-
cally faced the duties and
difficulties of life under cir-
cumstances as adverse to
their happiness as the
Queen’s were favorable. No
doubt royalty covers a multi-
tude of failings, and in one
respect it has served this pur-
pose for Her Majesty. She is
reputed to be the richest
woman in ihe world, and
there are few men who can
count their fortunes in as
many millions ; but during
the time she has been gather-
ing her store together she has
evinced very little practical
sympathy for the suffering
among her subjects. la for-
mer years she occasionally
contributed small amounts
out of her abundance when-
ever any great calamity
moved the charitable instincts
of the nation: but as she
has grown older she has be-
come more careful, and even
the Bulli disaster could not
induce her to break through
her economic habits. She
telegraphed her sympathy
to tht scores of widows and
hundreds of fatherless chil-
dren that the blast of death
had left to the mercy of the
charitable; bus telegraphic
sympathy was a poor substi-
tute for a helping hand to
clothe the naked and feed the
hungry.”
“And with one grand ac*
claim let the people of this
grand country, this Great
Britain of the future, cry
aloud and shout, with all the
Heaven-ascending power they
can develope, ‘A grand
Amen.' This is the long-ex-
pected day of days. The
Queen celebrates the Jubilee
of her glorious reign, the
great heart of a luyal people
beats in sympathy with the
matchless m o n a r c h—t h e
Queei of Queens. Yes, they
unite in the globe encircling
chorus, and sing ‘ God save,
the Queen.’ Let the cliildrea
in their lisping prattle, let the
youth in the full-flushed
bloom of buoyant lire, let the
happy parents iu theii domes
tic spheres, let the old folks
who are tottering to the goal
—in tact, let every one say
‘ Long live the Queen.’ Fifty
years have passed since the
day when that fair young
monarch ascended the throne
the very pinnacle of human
exaltation, half a century
since she began to sway a
sceptre and wield an in-
fluence more powerful than
those of any other living
potentate. Fifty years! ”
Blow hot, blow cold—that is the way in which
they do the trick. How politically ignorant, care-
less, and brutal must be the populace which
tolerates such effontery! However, this is only on
a par with the conduct of one of the News’ mag-
nates, Mr. Henniker Heaton, M.P., who pulls
the wires in London. When Mr. Heaton went
“ Home ” he attached himself for a season to the
retinue of Parnell, and wrote a cheque in aid of
the Irish National cause ; to-day he gives his vote
in the Commons to the purse-proud insolents
who cast the Irish peasant into the snow—and
further, he, the would-be Tory of Tories, pockets
money made by the publication of articles calcu-
lated to make Queen Victoria’s alleged subjects
in Australia go “ home ” and hit her.
A G-reat Woman-Problem.
Our brain is weary and our locks are thin. We
have been worried past endurance by the perusal
of voluminous correspondence from back-blocks
teachers and Carpentaria!! subscribers praying for
a solution of that tiger-tale. A glazed eye stares
stolidly upon our “ copy,” and a nerveless hand
directs our pen. And the trouble all comes of the
facetious cowardice of a story-writer who was
afraid to tell the downright truth about lovely
woman Nearly everybody has read Frank
Stockton's literary connundrum in which ho
leaves his readers in a mental fog as to the
fate of the lover of a certain barbaric Princess.
Her lover, a plebeian, had been found guilty by the
king, her father, of the heinous crime of loving the
Princess. His punishment consisted in being
placed alone in the centre of an arena in full view
of an assemblage composed of all the rank, wealth
and beauty of the kingdom. The Princess herself
was there to witness her lover’s fate. At one end
of the enclosure were two doors which gave ad-
mittance to two apartments. One apartment con-
tained a tiger ; in the other was the most
beauteous damsel—always excepting the Princess
—the country could boast. If he opened one door
he was torn to pieces. If he opened the other he
was at once wedded, amidst great rejoioings, to a
lovely woman. The Princess alone, of that vast
audience, knew which was the fatal door. Love
and jealousy struggled in her breast. She
had seen her lover previously flirting with
the woman whom a lucky chance might
make his wife. The prisoner had an intuition
that the Princess knew what was in store for him.
His eye sought hers—and here Stockton leaves
us 1 Did the jealous Princess give the nod towards
the door which would let loose the tiger upon her
lever, or did the loving Princess magnanimously
indicate the door which hid the bride her rival '1
The knotty mystery is still going the rounds, and
the dazed intelligence of humanity is howling fo
a solution. We are resolved it shall howl no
longer. We will unravel the dark and devious
mystery. Stockton’s hesitation is a sop to con-
ventional hypocrisy. He knew that the Princess
would much prefer the tiger eating her lover, to


the tigress wedding him. No properly-constituted
woman, if she told the brutal truth, would save
her lover’s life to surrender him to the arms of
that minx, the other woman .' Like the ancient
Christians, she would consider the salvation of
his life of little consequence beside the damnation
of his soul. And every woman regards a man’s
affection for every other woman than herself as
little short of damnation. Better that he should
die in the true faith—far better. And die he did,
allhough Stockton is too mean to say so. The
Lady and the Tiger” is always looked upon by
every lady as a case of “ The Gentleman and the
Tigress.” There, now !
A Stand-up Fight
For the vacancy in the Council of Melbourne
University, occasioned by Dr. Leeper’s resignaj
tion, there are two candidates, viz., the Right
Reverend Dr. Field Flowers Gok, “ Lord
Bishop of Melbourne,” and Mr. James Lambie,
M.A., of the Argus. The fame of the episcopal
Goliath has been noised abroad throughout the
length and breadth of the Australian continent
He is a mighty man of valour, before whose vast
ecclesiastical stature the serried ranks of unbelief
shrink aghast; and at whose evangelical Ha! Ha!
the heterodox call upon the rocks to cover them
and the caverns to hide them, Mr. Lambie, who
represents the David of this encounter, was for-
merly a Presbyterian clergyman, but, chaing
at the extremely rigid tenets of Calvinism
as interpreted by the Melbourne Presby-
tery, he has abandoned the pulpit for the
press. His articles on the Melbourne churches,
now appearing in the Argus, show how com-
pletely he has divested himself of the Geneva
gown. The Sydney people who remember Mr.
Greenwood some years ago will have a pretty
accurate notion of Mr. Lambie’s style. As an ad
eundem graduate of Melbourne, Mr. Lambie has
taken an active part in the debates of the Senate,
and he has been nominated for a seat in the
Council by the Liberals of that body. It will,
perhaps, be the most closely contested election
ever held in connection with the University of
Melbourne ; and the result will go far to decide
a question which has divided the Senate into
two opposing factions. Ever since the Univer-
sity was founded, professors, schoolmasters,
and the heads of the affiliated theological
colleges have commanded a majority in
the Council ; and it is naturally the wish
of the Conservative graduates that this state
of things should not be disturbed. The Liberals
and Radicals desire, on the other hand, however,
that the members of the Executive should have
no pecuniary interest whatever in the students,
and they are determined to return men to the
Council who have no end to serve but the welfare
of the University. The Anglican Bishop of Mel-
bourne, as the theological head of Trinity College,
has therefore been appropriately nominated by
the Tories, while the party of progress—native-
born Australians for the most part—have, with
equal propriety, put forward ” a gentleman’ of no
denomination at all,” as Mr. Lambie is contemp-
tuously termed by the Rev. Canon Stretch,
Chairman of Mr. Goe’s committee. Whether the
Scriptural parallel with which we started will be
rendered complete by Mr. Lambie’s victory and
the Bishop’s defeat abides the issue.
♦
Newspaper Privilege.
The Times and tho Unionist party in Britain
have started an entirely novel theory touching
the privileges of the Press. It is claimed by them
that merely because a public man is libelled
by a threepenny newspaper he is bound
to clear his character in a court of jus-
tice. His plea of not guilty enounced in
Parliament, according to these authorities,
worthless. He is accused of a crime, and the onu
lies upon him of proving his innocence ! The bi
of indictment is not drawn up with the intent to
make this always onerous task very simple. Ye
he must engage in it forthwith, or forever wande
about the earth with a damned character and
wretched sense of criminality ! The Times avei
so much, and Lord Salisbury and his lieutenant
re echo the cry. But surely the men who argu
thus must be bereft of reason. All that Parnel
was called upon to do in respect of the publicatio
of a letter alleged to have passed between him anc
somebody else relative to the Phoenix Park mur
ders, was to immediately deny the authenticity o
the document, and repudiate all knowledge of il„
This he did. To say that he id required to inst -
tute proceedings against the Times, or any othe
paper or individual, in order to clear his reputa
tion, is to argue that the process by which justic
is ordinarily secured should be inverted simply
serve the political exigencies of the hour
or rather of The Times. Nothing is easie
than for a party paper to concoct a blast
ing libel on a public man and make capital out o
his refusal to spend a fortune in briefln
lawyeis. If the Unionists' theory of thi
matter is correct, then a new terror is create!
infinitely more destructive of human liberty than
mere personal despotism. A despotic Czar may
be combatted ; but a despotic Press would bs an
invulnerable entity. The thing could not be
gotten at in any way whatsoever. Ye;
it is such an intolerable destroyer of liberty
that the Unionists have cenjursd into beinj ■
with the view of crushing the Irish party. Ever
if Parneli could have the venue changed fron
England to Ireland— where at all events he might
possibly get a fairer trial, from his point of view
than in London—he would simply place his hear
in the lion’s mouth by accepting the challenge o ’
an irresponsible corporation to get into the wit
ness-box and have every secret of his life, how
ever inelevant to the issue, wrenched from him in
open court to make a Tory hpliday. He is dared
to place himself at the mercy of an English special
jury, at whose hands, in all probability, he would be
accorded a short shrift and no mercy. The idea
that he is bound to bring an action is absurd from
another point of view. As an honourable man he
may have reason to regard the Times merely as a
venal hiieling rag, and to consider himself far
above any reflections which it may make upon his
character. Suppose, for example, such a man
as Chief Justice Higinbotiiam were falsely ac-
cused of corruption by, say, the Police News
cou.d he not fittingly ignore the libel l Yet ac-’
cording to the Salisbury gang’s hypothesis he
would, by holding his calumniators in contempt,
admit his guilt! As an authority on Irish affairs
The Times is joered at by both sides in the
Commons. We assert that, for the purposes of each
special case, the man accused, if secure in the
consciousness of his own rectitude, may hold himself
to be the best judge of how his character is likely
to be affected by the paper or the person that may
malign him.
The justice of a short Bulletin article on the
toady tendency of last Eight Hours' demonstration
in Melbourne, was impugned by a Democrat writ-
ing irum the scene of action. Our correspondent
stated that only two of the trades’ bands blew off
Iheir lojaliy in the form of “ God Save the Queen,”
MR. THOMAS B. ROBERTS,
Editor of the Gunnedah (N.S.W.) ADVERTISER.
and not more than 50 people cheered H.E. the
Governor. It must have been one of the admitted
50 who recently wrote to the Melbourne Herald,
pleading “ that working men might have the
opportunity of paying their respects to His Excel-
lency,” at the Jubilee Levee. This flabby, free and
independent toiler a9ks but for a removal of the
“evening dress” restriction, and kind permission
to pay those respects of his in Sunday clothes. It
is hard that a claw-hammer coat should come be-
tween a human being and bliss unspeakable, but
we think the horny-handed courtier ought to
stand down until he can borrow the regulation
toga. Evening dress at a levee is the outward
visible sign of the inward spiritual grovel—the
tomfoolish badge of every wearer’s degradation.
That Australian Commissioner who attended
Princess Louise’s garden struggle in a pot-hat
was justly ridiculed, for the reason that he
affected to play a manly part in a game which he
knew to be hollow and contemptible. We excuse
the Melbourne working man who would a-booing
go, on the grounds that he neither understands
“loyalty,” nor is aware of the fact that he is a
snob at heart. “Loyalty,” as worked at levees,
drawiDg-rooms, and royal pageants, is a sham ex-
pression of belief in a sham institution. If we
stripped these sickly functions of their frippery
they would soon take a chill and die. Hence it is
that born Tories are the most watchful stickler
for Court etiquette and official custom, while born
toadies encourage their efforts. When the Queen
puts a crown on her head, symbolical of a claim
to natural superiority, she only receives her sub
jects— pagh ! —on condition that they keep up the
imposture by rigging themselves out in masquer
ade costume. And when Sir Henry Locii pose
as deputy-monarch of Victoria he requires tha;
his deputy subject-visitors shall lay bare a wide
expanse of shirt-front. Do they not all enter into
the spirit of the farce? Are not the C.M.G.’s
who have licked the royal knuckles, longing to
appear at Government House in Court dress “ jus ;
as a mark of respect ” ? They are, they are, they
know they are. When our working man frienc
asks to b 3 admitted to Loch’s Jubilee Levee in
ordinary clothes, he is like one wishing to attenc
a bal masque without a domino. We have no
pity for that individual He wants to be a Court,
fool—without wearing the cap and bells ; an ass-
in a lion’s skin ; a worm —in the everyday clothing
of a real man. If the necessary cost of war-paint
prevents the dunder-headed savage from “ paying
his respects to His Excellency ” on Jubilee Day,
let him—if he is a real personage—forget his
Queen and be thankful. But we have grave
doubts about the genuineness of that working
man’s letter. It is probably a delusion and a
snare. Another damnable device of the Tory
enemy.
The Argus celebrated Queen’s Birthday with a
leading article so be am e ate 1 with greasy grovel
that the very sight of it would turn the stomach
of a C.M.G., and rouse the indignation of a worm.
The Jeames who did the work seems to have re-
ceived instructions to beslaver all royalty since
Solomon, but lack of memoranda prevented him
from reaching further back than “the Virgin
Queen.” “The Queen.” sail Jeames, “ unlik
her virgin (!!) predecessor, shirked no portion o:
her birthright of duty, but, obeying the prope
instincts of womanhood, chose a husband.” She
did, Jeames : she married poor Albert by main
force, to the disgust of all her advisers; after
which she “obeyed the &c ” by having a family
of nine. All very right and proper—but nothing
to gush about. Our washerwoman didn’t shui
her birthright of duty, and her family is increasing
every year. Jeames also observes that “all the
millions of her subjects conspire to call her
blessed.” So they do, Jeames. The native Indian
soldiery, waiting until the hour is ripe for another
mutiny—the Irish peasantry—the Scotch crofters
—the Welsh who have howled down all Jubilee
spouters—the Londoners who go to church to
hiss prayers for the Queen —the followers of tha
murdered Riel —the kidnapped Burmese—thesub-
jects of the abducted Cetevsayo—all these conspire
tocall her “blessed.” Afterluggingin “thatmartyr,
the Princess Alice,” and that “nob’e woman, the
Crown Princess of Germany,” the Argus
‘ Jeames ” says “ there is no necessity for any
fulsome adulation in dealing with the womanhood,
motherhood, or queenship of Victoria.” Great
Scott! If this Birthday article is to be accepted as
a plain cold statement of facts, what may we ex-
pect from Jeames on Jubilee Day !!
A lovely item per cable :
‘‘London, May 21—The recently-floated company, the
Caledonian and Australian Mortgage and Agency Company,
the object of which is to advance money for investment in
colonial city property, has cabled £350,000 for investment in
freeholds in Melbourne and Sydney."
In Sydney alone a large portion of the rents are
collected by the agents of aristocratic and absen-
tee landlords and forwarded to England. If we
cannot have land nationalisation, for Heaven’s
sake let us part with our land only to residents in
the colonies. The lack of an absentee-tax is an
invitation to the investment of blood-sucking
foreign capital. The only way in which we can
prevent it is an ad valorem ground rent-tax on all
lands held by non-resident speculators. The sys-
tem into which we are drifting has ruined Ireland
and is at present an active curse in America
MR. MARTIN J. LITTLE,
Editor of the Ipswich (Q.) ADVOCATE.
The Escaped Nun,’ with her collecting-plate,
the Jubilee cadge, and the recently-sloped monk
who raises funds by Protestant lectures delivered
under the auspices of an Orange lodge, take a
back seat. The Town and Country Journal
has put on its block-tin halo, and the following
delicate literary blossom, regarded as a maiden
I effort to raise the wind, wipes out anything and
everything yet recorded in the annals of men-
dicancy:—
.. “ ' A t-’ ( Goul bura) has forwarded the following sugges-
tions, which we are bound to remit to our readers : The prize
stones continue to improve. The last few hatches are sinmlv
eno 6 d • T h a 9 dea K a° f f gl '' in B, a P r jP to all the authors U a
good one , and 2s. 6d. from all readers would make a hand
some sunn Nearly all of them are certainly deserving of a
prize. We hope that they will last the year out, and that t
similar treat wi Ibe given us next year. It is too much to asl
the editor of the Town and Country Jourval to bear all
expenses. Suppose the subscribers all give a sum to the
and the iTtT S fUn id _ tI UCh paid hy Se Ptember 30 next;
and the editor could then divide it into several prize? to be
given for stories for next year." ue
The editor—poor devil—has nothing to do with
beari-g all expenses,” so it is no good trying
to raise sympathy on his behalf, and the wea
proprietary publish begging letters so that the-
may get their columns filled gratis instead of
ing for contributions as their contemporaries
content to do. In the art of harrowing the lie
of human sympathy, Alfred has really only
riral —a New South Wales country journa
who, a month or two ago, came out with a lavis
offer of a tin of sardines for the best narrat
and who was rewarded by the receipt of n
tales, a result which will enable him to open t
tin and give the competitors a sardine apiec
after which he can drink the j nice himself. If
item should chaDce to meet the eye of the litert
Bennett we would desire to give him a bint,
him offer a prize of a pair of boots to the farme
sending in the best bag of vegetables, and he w
get enough carrots and turnips to keep him go
f«r 12 months, and if he cares also to plank dow
a bronze medal for the best slrvey - to be jud
by a course of four weekb’dish washiDg, &c.,
the ancestral halls of the Bennetts— he neer
pay a girl any wages for at least three years.
♦
What we feared is comiDg to pass—viz., the r
man's experts, managers, newspapers, gold,
are being effectually used to stifle the cry of t
orphan and widow for justice. The unctuor
Mr. G. A. Lloyd, in the pure philanthropy of
heart, is counselling that the widows of the
sacrificed at Bulli, who threaten an action urn
the New South Wales Employers' Liability Ac
should abandcn their legal rights. Head this
“ At present" (announce the directors) “no
plicationfor employment can be entertained fro
those who have commenced proceedings agains
the company; but if such proceedings be aba
doned, the parties concerned will have their ca
.favourably considered.” Mr. Lloyd promisee
the people of Bulli that on his return to Sydney
would endeavour to induce the company to
“bygones me bygones ” “ Bygones be bygones
What! ! Are those victims mouldering in the
coffins, four score coffins piled one above I
other, ntar where their tenants were sacrificed
the greed of capital, to be calmly spoken of
“bygones”? Why should not the survivin
miners, if they can, vigorously prosecute to I
bitter end those who never failed to prosecu
them to the bitter end ? Bygones be Bygones !
This man Lloyd talks as calmly as if he we
referring to the smaller items of an Insolvency scl
dule. The trades unions of Australasia are no
on their trial. The Buli etin has done its par
let them do theirs.
E J. A. Haynes, L.R.C.P., writes to the Sydn
D.T on the subject of certificates of d.ath. 1
says :
"I pity any mediciil man trying to ii vestigate diseas
peculiar toNA.W. if he consults the jumble to be found
the Registrar-General s statistici, which have been conmi,
from the death certificates if quacks, Chinamen, herbalii
raarket-gardeDers, and undertakers.’’
This is good, so far as it goes, but Dr. Haynes h
not yet got a full griD of his subject. He has le
monthly-nurses out of his list, and druggist
apple-cheeked apprentices, also tram-conductor
niggers, abortionists, obliging next door-neig
bours, and asylum warders who kick paralyse
imbeciles to death. When he studies the matte
a little farther, he will find that anything short
a dead body is gcod enongh to sign a death cert
fleate in NS. W., and there is really no reaso
why a murderer who cares to add M.D. to h
own name should not supply the necessary guarai
tee that his own home-made corpse was carried o
by “ natural causes." Still, we don’t see why D
Ha y.ves should want to disturb the existing order o
things. It suits everybody but the deceased, an
so long as he does not complain it seems obtrusiv
for a perfect stranger to interfere with the privat
business of another man’s remains.
When Parkis desires not to commit himself h
generally retires under cover of a host of batt-jrec
and ill-used pronouns, and even when he endea
vours to be explicit—if he ever did make such a
endeavour— his old habit is too strong for him
and he is as vague asamorpliiomaniac in aLondoi
fog. The following are two specimens of hi
bloodthirsty encounters with sundry parts o:
speech which don’t express anything after all
“This Government does ■lf you” (W. J. Foster
not desire any change in the “ have any thought of a sea
ancient tit e of our beloved on the Bench and any
Sovereign, which could not vacancy should occur, thougj
increase the loyalty and you may be in the chair, tha
affection of her subj cts in shall not stand in the way c
New South Walrs. Beyond pr vent your claims bein
tnis we nave nj opinion to considered.’
express.
It is a wise relative that knows its own antece
dent, ard unless Parkes is altogether debarrei
the use of pronouns the public documents of New
South will soon degenerate in*o crypto
grapus. Lady Carington gave away the syntax
whicn she had learned in the marble halls of her
ancestors badly enough when she raised the sub
ject of “ pre-eminence in grief, ’ but even she
not a patch on Park eh when he wad* 8 in in rea
earnest.
It has bean unanimously resolved that the London
Common Council has not been guilty of misappro
priation of the public funds, after all. That is to
aay, it has been resolved that the Aldermen did
spend £20,000 of ratepayers’ money in hiring
gangs of prize-fighters, loafers, rewdles, coal-
heavers, faith-healers, sandwich men, &c , to
break up public meetings held in the cause of
municipal reform, and in paying men to get up
bogus gatherings in support of the old order of
government, but this, it seems, is not misappro-
priation. Another item from the lying and white-
wash department reports that the British bayonet
proves, on further examination, to be even worse
than was imagined. A truss of straw, with some
cotton-waste in the middle, was used to experi
ment upon, and several hundred bayonets were
bent double in attacks upon it, while the truss
was not damaged. It has been decided, however
tnat though weapons of this sort have been
passed by all the officials concerned for 20 years
and more, they were not bribed to accept the rub-
bish—they weie merely filled with such ghastly
ignorance that they didn’t know any better. Jn
other words, the verdict is that everybody con-
nected with the business for the last 20 years and
m ° r ® een a the meanest description,
and hasn t had brains enough to be a rogue. Even
aHottentotweii’tg 0 into Dattle with a cracked
club, but then the British army is not so lucky as
to be bossed by a Hottentot. No wonder that
when Great Britain goes to war now-a-days, even
against a mere pack of niggers, she gets pretty
well tied up every time.
John Haynes, M.L.A., has started to cultivate
the flowers of speech in his mental back-yard. In
an article on the beauties of Mudgee he describes
Lapertee \ alley as “the sunken palm of Provi-
dence. and then he goes calmly on witnout stop-
ping to remark : “ This is poetry.” When next we
look upon a rocky ridge we will know, on the same
principle, that we are gazing on the broken front
teeth of the Hereafter fixed in the stupendou
THE JUBILEE “BULLETIN.”
TO NEWS AGENTS AND THE PUBLIC.
mo keep pace with the times, The Bulletin will Jubilate in a specially gorgeous issue
* bearing date June 18, 188/. A Mammoth Edition will be printed, but in view of the
extensive demand which has already set in, agents are requested to forward their orders early
Agents at a distance will please wire. ''
The Bulletin, The Bulletin,
The Journalistic Javelin,
The paper all the humour’s in,
The paper every rumour’s in,
The paper to inspire a grin,
The Bulletin, The Bulletin,


jaw of the Everlasting, and a gully to us will no
longer be a mere depression in the ground ; we
will rise to the occasion and describe it as the ear-
mark printed by the foot of Time on the bosom of
our earthly resting place. We are open to supply
the Escaped John with figures of speech at three-
pence a dozen for prompt nett cash.
♦
Mr. Clarke, the New South Wales Minister of
Justice, is investigating the case of the Mount
Rennie prisoners now in gaol, who, he is alleged
to believe, are entitled to leniency, if not to abso-
lute acquittal. If he likes to carry his investiga-
tions far enough he will discover quite a lot of
things in this matter. He will probably fli d,
for instance, that Windkyer is utterly unfit to
be a Judge, and should at once be replaced by
someone who does not adjourn great criminal
trials in order that he may be enabled to dine with
the aristocracy. He will ascertain that Caring-
ton was built to be a small showman or a bazaar-
opener, or anylhing of that kind rather than to be
the arbiter of life or dea'h in the case of British
citizens convicted after a so-called trial which
was a disgrace to the civilised world. If he goes
on a little farther he may find out a lot more.
Perhaps he may even drop on to the fact that
Sweetman was sentenced to 14 years and two
floggings for doing what at least one hulkiDg
member of Parliament does a’most every week;
and if he keeps at it after this he may learn that a
swell Sydney merchant, who never gets flogged or
even prosecuted, can manage to be a lot werse
than a cabman wilhout trying very hard, either.
In short, there is hardly any end to the things
Clakke may learn before his investigation is
fln : sh* d.
What Australia owes to the “dear” old mother
country may bo gleaned from the following extract
from a letter to the Pall Mall Gazette penned by
Mr. 11. It. Jenkins: —
“ A bettered sw 11, who gambles away his fortune and
wrecks what little honour nature has provided him has to
disappear from soc ety, and what m »re c mvenient than to
try and get him appointed a colonial Governor? A House of
Commons bore, a champion bill-blocke*, has to be got out
of the way, ard, too poor to accept a peerage, he is forthwith
made comfortable with a West Australian Attorney-General-
ship. A Dublin Cistle official eannot conceal a manly
sympathy for certain transgres»ois of the law. His retire-
ment becomes necessary, and straightway he is sent to legis-
late for us poor devils. A baron’t is hounded out of society,
and the papers which proclaim his * unequalled turpitude
find consolation in the announcement cf his approaching de-
parture from these shores to have his moral feetor rendered
aseptic in the fragrant shade of the eucalyptus. The Dis-
charged (Jri r.inalu' Aid Society, woo meet prisoners on their
liberation, where do they hope to smugg'e the liberated off
to? Australia. The Home for Fallen Women, where do
they deport the salivated victims of London depiavity?
Australia."
The Governors of these “ colonies” are in
the habit of presenting their “humble duty” to
Her Gracious when they send her a congratula-
tory telegram at the public expense. Ard after
presentiDg the “’utnble dooty,” they proceed to
grovel “in the name of the people” of their
respective colonies. Then Her Gracious wi-es
back to “warmly thank the people,” who don’t
know what they’ve done to de3erve her gratitude
until they see some treacley paragraph in the
dailies about “the Queen’s gracious me33age ’
Out of such tarnation miserable materiil is mon-
archy constructed nowadays. The thing was less
contemptible when it was built with barefaced
plunder and held together by lumps of congealed
blood.
Mr. Thomas B. Robe, ts.
The attached portrait represents Mr. Thomas B.
Roberts, editor and proprietor of the Gannedah
- (N.S.W.) Advertiser, a gentleman from whom
Mr. J P. Abbott lately wanted to recover £lOOO
damages for alhged libel. He was born in Liver-
pool (Eng.) in 1841, and arrived in N.S.W. at the
age of 10. He learn d the business of a composi
tor under the late Mr. Walsh, of Bell’s Life in
Sydney, and in 1860 joined the staff of the Mait-
land Ensign, then just born, now deal, and past
all resurrection. His next posiiion was ia the
office of the Illawarra Mekcury, and thence
he removed to the Southern Telegraph, Bom-
bala. The Monaro Star afforded him another
sphere of usefulness ani on leaving it he became
f jreman of the Kiama Independent, where he
remained 10 years. He afterwards managed the
Namoi Independent, and finally, in December,
1881, started tho Gunnedah (V.S.W.) Adver-
tiser, which he has succeeded in making a very
profitable venture. His staff consists of his three
sons, and, with the exception of Mr. J. P. Abbott,
he has now no annoyances worth speaking of.
Mr. Martin J. Little.
Mr. Martin J. Little, editor of the Ipswich (Q )
Advocate, was bjrn at Ipswich in June 1864, and
spent his life in that prosperous little town.
He was educated at St. Mary’s Seminary there,
and afterwards entered the Education Department
as a teacher. Twelve months’ experience of this
drudgery, however, convinced him that expound-
ing to shock-headed boys the mysteries of the
irregular verbs was not his forte and he .joined
the staff of the Advocate, then in its early in-
fancy. Here he acted for six years as reporter,
and at the beginning of the present year found
himself promoted to ilie editorial chair, which he
has filled with marked success. Mr. Little’s bio-
graphy is a thort one, but then —notwithstanding
the position he has attained—he is only 23, and
has not yet had time to make history.
Mr. “Joe” Bennett, who has long been
connected with the Bomba Ironworks, was, on
severing his connection with that establishment
a fortnight since, presented by the employes with
a handsome tea-and-coffee service.
Pastor Jefferis, of Sydney, told his young
men the other night that although betting losses
were reckoned debts of honour, beef steaks should
be paid for before any other stakes. Why doesn't
the reveaend one give us something new 2 Thsr
joke was got off by the man who wrote the finst
pantomime. The good pastor has learnt quite a lot
since the wicked Johnny Solomon built a theatre
next his chapel.
From the Sydney Globe : “ Foster, Reid,
and Barton speak at Wise’s meeting. The old
stager who resigned the Attorney-Generalship
because of its companionship, and the other old
stagers who would not have it for a similar rea-
son, are going to do a howl of eulogy over the
youngster who was green enough to take it.” If
Wise gets in, the first measure he proposes to
introduce is one “for the proper housing of the
poor.” Freetrade has always dragged N.S.W.
down to pauperism and poor-houses, and Mr. B.
R, Wise, recognising this fact, is going to rise to
the occasion. Parkes has already 5000 men on
hand whom his favourite policy has reduced to
beggary, and they want housing badly,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Criterion Theatre”—” Uncle Tom's Cabin” p. 15.
HXmbra Music Hall—Minßtrelsy „
ATRE Boyal—“ Little Jack Sheprard ”
ra House —” Current Coin, or Snared ”
We observe with regret that the theatri-
cal managers of Sydney have eo far announced
nothing special in honour of the approaching
Jub., and we feel blue and bad and sneery at
this neglect on their part. Something certainly
ought to he done on the occasion, and if the
theatres do not come to the front with an exhibi-
tion of appropriate melancholy we shall be disap-
pointed. We now drop into poetry:—
As once I walked by a dismal swamp
There sat an old cove in the dark and damp,
And at everybody as passed that road
A stick or a stone that old cove throwed.
We contemplate being the cove, and the above
will faintly describe our attitude if the Sydney
shows are as dreary on the Jubilee day as the oc-
casion deserves.
#* * *
“Little Jack Sheppard,” who is urged on
his wild career by the ten-horse power of Brough
and Boucicault’s burlesque company, opened last
Saturday at Sydney Royal in the presence of a
dense, wet, enthusiastic crowd, which heaved
and steamed like a whole forest of blue-moulded
umbrellas. Public opinion—represented, as usual
by the bald-headed man who sits at the back of
the omnibus—has already resolved that this piece
is to be a success. It is the wildest, jumpiest, and
most extravaga it of comic operas, filled with
thieves, who cadge more recklessly, and come
home with a larger s ock of stolen food bidden
in their hats than any other thieveson record, and
crammed with humoursome burglars who break
into banks to slow music. It.contains more pretty
girls in boys’ clothes that
we ever saw before, and
these girls think nothing
of fighting, armed only
with a raw chicken and
a few herbs, against fero-
cious bandits with clubs
end artillery. There are
more dancing assassins
in it than in any other
opera we have heard of
this year, and they jump
higher, and stay up
longer, and howl louder,
and flop down again
more suddenly, and drink
more, and fall longer
distances out of more
windows on top of a
larger number of mys-
terious conspirators than
they do in any other
piice, and the conspira-
tors look more surprised,
and are squashed flatter
when they are fallen
upon, than any others
known to history Fully
twice as many things
happen in barely half as
much time as usual, and
in the exciting passages
the Jacobites, Janissa-
ries, bridesmaids, troops,
and singing burglars are
all mixed together in
stacks. Miss Fanny
Robina, as Jack, makes
a frisky little ciimiDal,
and reads The Bulletin
in gaol in the last act.
Mr. Robert Brough does
Jonathan Wild in splen-
did style, and dances like
a greased spider on a hot
stove. Mr. Rojce fills
the part of Blueskin, and
not only fit's it, but
hangs over at the sides ;
Miss Florence Harcourt
makes a dainty figure as
Thames Darrell, and Mr.
Daniels makes a red-
headed one as Abraham
Mendez. Our gush stops
right here for want of
space, and one or two individuals whom we have
an objection to escape in consequence.
# # # #
“ The Outcasts,” which is booming at
Sydney Royal Standard, is adapted from Miss
Braddon’s parabolic cram “ Henry Dunbar,” and
is, ia several respects, more acceptable than the
or.ginal novel. The mystery which the authoress
drags through the howling wilderness of a three
volume novel is condensed a lot and gains in
simultaneous continuousness by the process.
The wicked banker and his vc'iai a e still
there, but the sufferings of the foimor are cut
short, and he has not even time to leave a hen-
track on the shores of the great ocean of time
before he is concussed by the billows and dragged
down to meet his fate. Prom this point Dunbar
and Wilmot are mixed up like twin infants in a
wash tub, and the latter has to spend all his time
in dodging his own daughter who thinks he is the
other man, and accuses him of having murdered
himself and hid the body, A man in such a posi-
tion as this is apt to have a woefully had time of
it. When the yearning girl comes in at the door
he has to escape by the window ; when she is sit-
ting on the table wailing for his arrival he can’t
possibly come out from underneath for fear of
being seen, and when she slides down on one side
he has to rise on the other like a tissue paper ghost
crawling out of a tomb. If she carries her investi-
gations underneath it is then time for him to get on
top, and when a breathless messenger informs him
that she it stuck in the chimney he can’t, without
challenging utter ruin, sit on the hob, but must
go and double himself up in the fowl-house. Life,
under circumstances like these, is hardly worth
having, and it is all in rain that the miserable
victim sends cheques to the infuriated girl, pgr
favour of the aashier with the bald spot on the
back of his head, tor the documents are torn up
and the pieces sent hack in derision. The story is
too painful to pursue further, but it is well worked
out and well played. Mr. H. C. Sidney, as the
sham Dunbar, scored a triumph, and Mr. Booth
man ro e above his usual level in the seeond
scene, where he dumps down a thin, underfed cash-
box and resigns his billet. Miss Alice Norton
and Miss Ada Roehfort represented two very niee
young ladies, and Mr. Loston made a sort of a
success in a oomedy part as the “ Major ” gone to
seed. The rest of the oast was—was—ahem—it
was
* # * *
A very respectable crowd managed to keep
dry in Sydney Academy on Monday, and amused
themselves with “ Queen’s Evidence.” Mr Vivian
had a congenial part in Jonas Isaacs, and he rose
to the occasion as he generally does under such
circumstances, and as he rose the house came
down. He brought it down. Miss Helen Vivian,
in the character of Kate Medland, was a three-
pint lady wrestling with a five-quart part, but she
being blind, perhaps the other characters
took a mean advantage of her. Mr. Hesford
attempted to represent a meek Pecksniff from a
ladies’ seminary, he only succeeded in looking
like an unshaved bird of prey which had laid in a
quart of beer and some oysters and didn’t mean to
go home till morning. His voice required to be
either greased or buried, for it sounded like a ton
of coals being delivered in the back yard. Per-
haps he had a cold. Misses Amy Nelson and
Edith Thorne might easily have been worse ; so
might the scenery. Mr. Samuell —who, by the
way, got rather damp on Monday while looking
after things at the front door—is “at home’'at
the Academy every Sunday night accompanied by
20 lady vocalists, and one more thorn is thus
planted in Fastor Jefferis’ flesh.
“The Tomboy” is to be produced at
Sydney Criterion on Monday vice “ Topsy,” danced
off her feet. The revival of this dreary comedy
will compel us, with sincere regret, to give one
agreeable girl away in next week’s issue.
“ Current Coin ” ends on Friday, and on
Saturday Minnie Palmer’s sweet, beaming smile
will fill Sydney Opera House. If anybody objects
to this figure of speech he will please call at The
Bulletin office and see the manager. We don’t
mean any unpleasant insinuatiors as to the size
of Minnie's smile ; we merely wish to point out
that it will be there, and what it lacks in size is
made up in quality. “ Pert and her Stepmother”
is the piece announced. If the stepmother should
get killed off during the season we contemplate
applying for the billet, for we are getting rather
q 4
We
| 'Vigour oJ^quK".''
tired of writing pretty notices for nice girls who
hardly give us even a tmile in return, and we
would like a change.
* * * *
Frank Smith’s talented band at Sydney
Alhambra have now entered upon their third
year, and are still rolling rapidly. Among other
novelties lately added is a Woolloomooloo tenor
with three good octaves and a husky bit of a
fourth, and a soprano who doesn’t wear short
skirts. Bald-headed men still form a large per-
centage of the audience.
A bit of Italian opera criticism :
“ Signor Pimazzoni made a don whom no one would sup-
pose capable of ruining many women. He lacked vigour,
and was altogether too modest for the character. He re-
ceived the only encore of the • vening for his rendering of the
Canzonnetta, ‘ From out thy casement glancing,’ which he
sang to a mandoline a companiment, played by the strings
pizzicato, and which by no m-ans accorded so well with the
singer’s voice as the music would have done had it been
played with the bow.”
By Jove ! Of course it is all from the Sydney E.
News.
* # # #
Cogill’s niggers have varied their songs,
and established a skating rink, and one of them
has taken to sassing bi 3 mother. Fred Garnet
has turned black, and makes a cartwheel of him-
self to the sound of slow music, and the perform-
ance ends with a howling farce in four scenes.
The Gaiety still fills well.
* * * *
Miss Amy Sherwin, who arrived by the
Mariposa from San Francisco on Tuesday, com-
mences a series of concerts in Melbourne Town
Hall on June 11. Herr Johann Rhodes, the
violinist, and Mr. William Stock well a N.Z. tenor,
are of the company.
# * * *
What are they giving us ? Says the S.M.
Herald in re Mr. Locke Richardson: —
“The programme will include selections from ‘David
Copperlield' ond other hu.itgureus pieces."
There are undoubtedly some ‘' humourous ” char-
acters in the work, but regarded as a whole
“David Copperlield” is deoidedly not a “ comical”
book.
# * * *
The world, the flesh, the devil, and the
press—particularly the flesh and the devil—made
up a fsir aud'enee at Mr. I.oeke Richardson’s rtei-
tation of “ Othello” inthe cydney Y.M.C.A. hall,
and were entranced for two hours and a half.
Next Monday Mr. Richardson will appear as
King Lear, and his three daughters, and the Earl
of Kent, and the thunderstorm, and a lot of other
things, all rolled into one split-tailed coat.
** * *
The Majeronis started their season at
Melbourne Bijou on Saturday, with five acts of
emotion adapted from Ouida's nasty novel
“ Wanda.” Mr. George Leitch Walker has Inked
up a fairly understandable story from unhealthy
material, but the slimy trail of Ouida’s vicious
snobbism meanders over the whole play. It is a
nauseous glorification of “ noble b:rth ” written in
the interests of jubilee promoters and the Slave
trade.. His Imperial Thingummy the Czar must
run over and see “ Wanda,” if he can dodge the
dynamite of his faithful subjects. It slops over
with sentiment calculated to make emperors
weep and honest men swear. The plot goes
something after this style. Wanda, a holy, high-
born female, proposes to, and marries a soi-disant
French marquis, because she preferred him „to a
Russian Prince Vasharly with a noble eoui, or
what passes for a noble soul—in Russia. It ap-
pears that the French marquis is really an illegiti-
mate son of some other Prince by a beautiful serf
girl. As a boy he had been twitted on his ‘ ‘ base”
origin by the noble Vasharly, and the noble
Vasharly stuck a knife into him for being so
“ damned low.” By the scar of this kaife thrust
Vasharly recognises the Marquis in after years,
but for Wanda’s sake he doesn’t tell her what an
“ inferior pusson ” the is living with. Countess
Olga Brancha—a married lady who is always
smackiDg her Hindoo manservant in the eye when
she isn't playing the role of Potiphar’s Wife—de-
nounces the Marquis as a serf, because he (having
inherited virtue front his maligned mother) won’t
hug the Countess when she asks him. On
the strength of this disclosure Wanda drive.s
about her noble family and the tainted
blood of her offspring, and orders the loving hus-
band to clear out. For ten years she has been
married to her beau ideal of mankind, only to
flndthathe is” base born” after all. This is
very affecting. It is also very rough on the sas-
siety doctrine that blood will tell. For the next
three years the poor chucked-uut Marquis freezes
on a snowy muuntain park close handy. Then
his wife foigives his accident of birth and takes
him home to thaw as the curtain falls Two
clever children, Edith and Mabel Appleton, are
the freshest and nicest features of the show. The
Hindoo servant who serves as punching-maehino
for Countess Olga is also an amusing cuss. He
never says anything, but his eye rolls in fine
frenzy when Miss Lucia Harwood lands him below
the belt. That lady plays the seductive Countess
creditably, and certainly wins sympa hy by show-
ing that anyway she isn’t a stickler for “ birth ”
where her affections are concerned. Mr. H. R.
Jewett fails to make the noble-souled Princo
Vasharly anything but a cowardly cur, which
isn’t his fault. The Wanda of Signora Majeroni
is a powerful performance in a bad cause—as
much may be said of the Signor. But it is a
public misfortune that two talented artists should
waste their taleat on a p ay with no other pur-
pose than to palm off snobbery as virtue. I here
is beautiful scenery in “ Wanda ” and one great
situation. The Majeronis’ well-earned reputation
will ensure a decent run,
#* * *
Her Gracious Majesly had a birthday (by
the grace of God) last week, which prevented us
from publishing a gorgeous notice of “ A Night
Off,” at Melbourne Princess's. The Triumvirate
will respect this delay, for they dearly love the
Queen and all who are set in authority over us.
A Vice-Regal command receives their most obse-
quious attention. We have detected a distinct
tremor in the voice of Mr. Williamson when
speaking of Sir Henry Loeh. He called him
“ the worthy Governor,” even as a dutiful son re-
ferreth to the “old man.” This overture con-
cluded, it only remains for us to say that “A
Night Off” is an ultra funny comedy in four
screams, of which the first scream is only a mild
prelude to the last three. The thing is so studded
with points that the boldest critic oouldn’t sit on
it if he would. In the principal male characters,
Messrs. Anson, Malthy, Titheradge, and Hans
Phillips shine like a schoolboy's morning face,
while among the ladie3 Mesdames Agnes Thomas,
Jenny Watt-Tanrer, and Annie Taylor are about
as good as they are beautiful. The very best joke of
the comedy is wrapped up in its last line, and deli-
vered when many of the audience are bolting off
to catch a train. They are wrong there. A joke
is a joy for ever. A train may be overtaken by
the Brighton express, Our first notice contained
more butter than this, but butter won’t keep
fresh for a second week.
*# * *
Mr. Phil. Day had a good week with
“Mixed” at the Bijou, the Chinese Commis-
sioners being thrown in as a special attraction
for his closing night. General Wung Lung Ho
(of whom we wish to speak with respect, having
only one lung ourselves) thought 80-co Blithers
was welly good. “Youth” is booming along at
the Opera House, and “Alone in London” gets
better instead of getting worse. “ Silk Stockings ”
are still in good demand. Mr. Tommy Hudson
has floated his Surprise Company at St. George’s
Hall, and shares (two shillings paid up at the
door) are freely enquired after. Things, however,
have not gone altogether smoothly on the Mel-
bourne “variety ” market. One broker, Walter
Cottier, retired from business all of a suddint last
week leaving his Jubilee miußtrels and his fairy
circle of ladies in teai'3 and arrears. Then
there was a distressing law-suit between Horace
Bent and Charles Huso. Horace claimed a week’s
wages for illegal dismissal from the Buffaloes
sincedeparted forotherprairies. Horace denied the
wet impeachment urged against him by Hugo and
murmured, “Bent, but not broke,” as he skipped
out of the Halls of Justice with an order for £B.
The ODly and inimitable one has now joined
Frank Clark’s crowd, and the “ Stockings ” are
quoted firmer than ever.
** # #
At the Alexandra things are looking
gloomy for “ The Little Dude.” There is an air
of thinness about this show. The lady performers'
voices are as thin as themselves. Dresses are thin
to suit the wearers. Audiences are ghastly thin.
Onee landed in the circle a fellow feels himself to
be out of humanity’s reach, and a cold, Robinseu-
Crusoe sort of feeling runs down his spine. Cuiuie
opera, taken under thess conditions, incites t»
suicide and deeds of blood. There is more little-
ness than Dude about Mi is Marion Norman in the
name part, while the other ladies look as though
they ought to be allowed to grow and thicken out
for another coeple of years. Two gentlemen,
figure in the bill. They might die together and he
buried in the same grave. The management is
thinking of putting up another opera shortly, but
unless it puts up another company and some more
etceteras there is reason to fear the worst. By the
way, Mdlle. Franzini, the lady bicyclist, has been
wedged in among the other attractions. A wrest-
ling match or alsix-days’ go-as-you-please might
ua ce this opera season hum.


Pepper
and
Salt
Premier Gillies, one of the staunchest
Tories that ever gave a penny tip, will not allow
any Radical notions to interfere with the spon-
taneous and representative character of Jubilee
illuminations in Victoria. The public must re-
joice at the public expense, and that’s all about
it. Don’t tell us that ratepayers in the various
boroughs are preparing to bring actions against
the Councils for improper application of borough
funds. They can’t stop it. The robbery has been
too carefully planned. Knowing what a frenzied
longing there is for Jubilee fireworks and bun
festivals, knowing how widespread is the Vic-
torian desire to worship the Queen and magni y
her name at any cost, confident that every man in
the colony would shed his last shilling for Jubilee
if he were consulted in the matter —proud and
happy in the knowledge, Gillies privately arranged
with the Melbourne City Council that if any rate-
payer should object “ he will have no hesitation
in at once bringing a bill before Parliament to
legalise the expenditure of municipal funds on
the Jubilee celebration ” —
The physiologist and zoologist who fur-
nishes the powerful “As you like it” papers to
the S.M. Herald, speaks of the “passionate love
of fatherland which distinguishes civilised man
from beasts.” This distinction does not hold good.
We have a bull-pup—a truculent beauty with
milk-white skin and bloodshot eyes—that, after
being presented to a friend ten miles off, has re-
turned to his “fatherland” in our back-yard no
less than five times. So, too, when we were lately
shifting, we couldn’t manage to induce our tom-
cat to forsake his native chimney-stack, or tear
himself away from the corrugated-iron roof of his
infancy.
Alfred Deakin has written to a friend in
Melbourne, saying: “I am very eager to get
back, and with all the wealth, power, and intel-
lectual culture of this country I would not change
my home if I could.” Exactly! This is the
first time the perky young rooster has quitted his
own dunghill. Let us sing a little song of
sympathy to Alfred, and pray that the gentle
zephyr will waft it to him o’er the waters blue.
Now that a single consultationist, from among
the eonsultationists innumerable of N.S.W., has
been lined in a small sum, the official fly in the
glue-pot seems to have stopped for a rest. No at-
tempt whatever has bsen made to harass the
other promoters of sweeps, and the word-compe-
tition men, the Jubilee party who wants his
readers to forward a shilling and find out if they
were both born on the same day “ and if so will
send a pound, ’ —the quack-doctor, the herbal fraud,
and the eminent lawyer, who makes illegal charges
for writing bullying letters, are all still on the
loose. So, too, are the hundred and fifty land-
syndicates bossed by members of Parliament, who
trade off malarious swamps—auctioned in the dry
season—with a small deposit and very small
monthly payments, and who, when their victims
have been killed off with fever on poisonous
“estates” sold under false pretences, foreclose
on the widow’s allotment and quite forget
to return any part of the money already
paid. The promoters of several such socie-
ties which, in spite of flowing balance sheets,
have gone dry, are also walking about at large,
and the men who want Smith to send two half-
crowns with a view to finding out if there is not a
legacy of £2,000,000 awaiting him, pursue the
even tenor of their little swindle. Sundry faith-
healers, with a cure that’s all my eye, are also
bound this way with a view to taking in the
guineas of the blind and the paralytic, and will
doubtless do a good business without disturbance,
and the eminent Chinese merchant continues to
run his fan-tan establishment as of old, and his
underling, as he looks out of the door to make
sure that the well-tipped policeman is not about to
turn dog on the institution, observes rightly that
“ white man one climson fool.” In view of all
these things it seems strange that the authorities
of Sydney should sit down to rest after a long shot
at one poor, mean, little consultation.
“ Brevity ” from the Sydney E. News :
“ There is a prospect that Oscar Wilde will visit
Australia. He will teach us 4 cultchaw.’” Dear
Alfred, candour compels us to admit, there is no
one in Australia that needs it more ! Who ?
About the meanest trick on record is to
rob a naked nobleman before he has time to dry
HE HAD HER THERE.
HE (a well-seasoned toper) : “HEBE, MY DEAR, WHAT IS THE SMALLEST THING IN
THE WORLD?”
SHE (shoving his last sixpence into the till): “GIVE IT UP.”
HE (lifting his eyes from the glass and gazing into hers with mournful earnestness)- “SIX-
PENN'ORTH OF YOUR BRANDY.” (But she didn't take the hint).
himself, but this is actually what a French count
clone. He called on a wealthy baron early
one morning, and agreed to rent his mansion. He
v anted particularly to know if the bath worked
well, and the baron got out of bed and into the
tub to show that it was all right. Then the count
took his clothes and his pocket-book and fled,
locking the door behind him, and the dripping and
unclad baron skipped through the window and
gave chase. He was seized as a lunatic, however,
before he had gone ten yards, and when the agile
count was captured some months afterwards he
had spent all the money, and, being dead-broke,
was just beginning a new career as a Protestant
convert who was persecuted by the Mudgoe Pj o-
tectioDist electors on account of his religious con-
victions.
Mr. Justice Stephen, of N.S.W., at his
swearing-in, quoted Lord Bacon as saying that
“ an ever-speaking Judge is no well-tuned cymbal.”
A few years ago there was a Justice Stephen in
Victoria, who was emphatically “an ever-speak-
ing judge." He was a relative of the present
Judge Stephen, by the way, and in his general
style reminded one of a “well-bred” old maid.
He was eternally saying malapropos things from
the Bench. One day, sitting in Banco with the
Hibernian Stawell and the Cork Barry, he volun-
teered the opinion that Irish intellect could never
compete with the English article. Stawell looked
down at Dick Ireland, Billing, and Higinbotham
(all Milesians), and slightly curled his uoper-lip,
while Sir Redmond began to search vigorously for
some papers he had mislaid. The great success of
“ dear old Molesworth ” on the bench was the fact
that he never interrupted counsel, even the
rawest junior, but heard all he had to say, to the
bitter end.
R[?] HATER.
Poor slaves who pay the rates,
Hear what Duncan Gillies s’ates—
When a Council jubilates
In fashion regal,
’Tis absurd to tear your hair,
You had better grin and bear,
Or a Bill he wiil prepare
To make it legal.
Poor slaves who pay the rat»s,
Prithee, thank your lucky fates
That a mayor illuminates
Although you wouldn’t;
When you see devices flash,
Purchased with the public cash,
Never murmur “ dem,” or “ dash ”
Oh I you shouldn’t.
Poor slavos who pay the rates,
Fix this fact inside your pate 3—
Tis the Law that obligates
Rejoicings “loyal ; ”
Does that matter 1 Not a bit;
To our way of thinking, it
Is a swindle meet and fit —
Completely Royal.
So then ante up the rates ;
All things come to him that waibs,
And though Tory syndicates
Rob and plunder.
Freedom soon shall raise her voice,
And yourselves shall make the choice
Of a season to rejoice—
Yea, by thunder !
We always find, whene’er we roam,
Old countries strong in what we’re weak in ;
You’re counted bourgeois, rough, at “ home ”
But here you’re “ cultured ” Alfred Deakin.
So, though you put on lots of side
When first you started glory-seekin’
You found that in this world so wide
Are wider men than even Deakin.
A Triton among minnows here
You are, in common way of speakin’—
Bat quit our shores and then, Oh dear !
No more are you a Triton, Deakin.
When walking London streets you grew
Your speech and manner very raeelc in—
How few among those millions knew
There was a man named Alfred Deakin !
And every day you stay abroad
You find your cap of glory leakin’ ;
Come back and be again adored—
Again Chief Secretary Deakin.
Return, O Young Victoria’s boast!
The banqueteer shall dip his beak in
The festive glass, and drink this toast —
“ Long live our one and only Deakin ! ”
PERSONAL ITEMS.
There are two F. L. Smyths at the bsr in
Australia.
It is announced that Q leen Victoria is
going to marry Battenberg, late of Bulgaria, who
will reign in kilts.
The witty Sir Wilfred Lawson may pos-
sibly come to Sydney to preside over the Centen-
nial Temperance Congress.
Queen Victoria has quite superseded Guy
Fawkes as the patron-saint of gunpowder, and the
] fetich of fireworks. Poor old Guy !
Lord Rosebery has purchased a letter of
Robert Burns to a friend, commencing “ My dear
sir,—That damned mare of yours is dead.”
The Prince of Wales has made the
acquaintance of another American beauty, Miss
Crabb. She will now be liable to walk back-
wards.
Lord Beerthirst has shown up at Croydon
(Q.), just at the time when the place is almost un-
protected, only one policeman being in good
health.
The Cairns (N.Q.) editor says : —“ We
have left off contributing to charities. We now,
like the Queen, only give an expression of our
sympathy.”
Ursula Carrington and Janies Carrington
were fined last week in Sydney for drunkenness.
These confoundedly low people might have had the
decency to change their names before loading up
with whisky, anyhow.
Mr. Joe Smith, son of the celebrated
Mormon prophet, has denounced polygamy in
scathing terms. This is the result of having too
much mother.
A Harrow school-boy has relieved his
feelings by throwing a glass of slops at Mr. Glad-
stone. He will get a baronetcy if the aristocracy
should have a say in the fnatter.
Nearly half a century ago the late (R.C.)
Archbishop Goold, of Melbourne, was Dean of
Campbelltown, N.S.W., where Cardinal Moran
opened a new church the other day.
The spineless Jennings, K.C.M.G., is to
have an extension of his tail. The anatomists’
idea that a tail is merely an extension of the back-
bone is thus evidently all moonshine.
The Pall Mall Gazette says that Queen
| Victoria never goes amongst her sycophantic and
grovelling subjects without taking the most ela-
borate precaution against assassination.
Ex-bank-manager Holt is in a woeful state
of health. The detective by whom he was ar-
rested paid him a visit in prison the other day,
and says that the unfortunate man is so changed
as not to be recognisable.
The Empress of Germany presents a gold
coin to all servants who reside in her household
for 40 years. If they stay on for 80 years they get
another gold coin. The royal ladies are always
doing something kind and thoughtful.
The arbitration-court costs in the big
case in which Mr. M’Sharry, railway contractor,
claims £lOO,OOO damages from the N.S.W. Rail-
way Department, run merrily on at the rate of a
uinex a minute while the court sit 3 1
Sir Anthony and Lady Musgrave, of
Queensland, have been graciously pleased to sig-
nify their intention of giving half-a-crown each
by the Grace of God, towards a Jubilee drinking-
fountain. lias it come to this already ?
The Queen has decided that at the West-
minster Abbey Jubilee service the Prince Consort’s
instead of Sir John Goss's setting of the “ Te
Deum,” is to be sung. With the Prince’s setting
there will doubtless be tedium enough to satisfy
anybody.
The S.M. Herald has a three-inch par.
about the renowned author of "The Life of
Jesus,” and each of the three time 3 that he is
named he is called M. Kenau. But then a paper
like the Herald is not supposed to know much
about heretics or infidel literature.
Mr. Varney Parkes, M.L.A., is to be
appointed Executive Commissioner for N.S.W. a ,
Melbourne "Centennial Exhibition." But Var
ney’s respected pa, fearing that the appoint
m nt would bo regarded as having an unpleasan
savour, is holding it over until the Parliamentary
recess.
A new Queensland town is to be honourec
with the glorious name of “Jennings.” In the
fullness of lime the political whirligig may bring
other colonial notables to the front, and a city
may yet flourish under the massive and imposing
designation of “Jonathan Charles Billing l’ockcr-
age Seaver.”
Mr. J. Dwyer, the alleged money-order
swindler, must be ’cute and devilish sly. On the
day before his arrest he dined amicably with Mr.
Frank Hill, Superintendent of Sydney G P.O,
whom he has doubtless to thank for many an un-
conscious tip concerning the management of
money-order books-
Mr. John Sweetman, an American gentle-
man, has given £l(io towards a memorial to be
erected to Archbishop Vaughan. It is further
stated that the late funeral of then C. Archbishop
ot Sydney was carried out unostentatiously at the
express wish of Mr. Henry Matthews, the present
British Home Secretary,
The Baron, who started a hot favourite
for Epsom Derby, and got beaten in accordance
with the noblest traditions of the race, belongs to
a Mr. Burdett-Coutts, some connection of the
worthy Baroness. “The Baron” is a contemp-
tuous nickname for Ashmead Bartlett, the youth-
ful recipient of that old lady’s connubialities.
Three generations of Stephens have sat on
the Supreme Court bench of N.S.W. In Victoria
Chief Justice A’Beckett's nephew is now a judge
of the Supreme Court, and his grandson, Mr T
A’Beckett Weigall, is practising at the bar, and
hke Ins uncle and mentor, may yet attain to the
man' 61 ermine ’ a 8 he is a Promising young
A Melbourne driveller says :—“ Had Dr.
Goe been in the place of Moses he would have
struck the rock and said nothing about the supply
of water he was about to provide.” Just so. And
if the apocryphal Moses had been Dr. Goe—instead
of a second hand edition of the Greek god Bacchus
—he would have done nothing in particular at a
salary of £2OOO a year.
The coroner’s jury which sat to discover
the cause of the Windsor (Vic.) railway accident
and to point out the weak points in the intricate
block-system, consisted of four publicans two
tailors, two tobacconists, a seedsman, a hatter a
hairdresser, a draper, a stationer, a fishmonger
and a bellhanger. There wasn’t a butcher an
undertaker, or a railway man in the whole crowd.
Confession of faith by Thadeus O’Kane, of
the Northern Miner :
“ We look upon all Christian ministers as a kind of mora
police to keep the kids straight and palaver the women into
being good. We stand by all churches and give a small
donation tn erect them We draw a line at the JoM-hou?e-
no Bavee. Also we think all volunteers should attend
church-parade ; it draws the threepenny bits and is a treat
whale 6 ’’ 811 * 8 * W<! arC shghtly da Wous about Jonah and the
Even the Queensland editor is becoming orthodox
Mr. Henry Halloran, C.M G., of Sydney
who plays the part of Australian poet-laureate
and whose metrical grovels are unsurpassed in
unctuousness, will be concerned to hear that
though Queen Victoria always acknowledges
poems fired at her by rising Miltons with disor-
dered shirt-collars, it is her unalterable rule
never to read them. It is a better thing, Omy
children, to be a Queen than an editor when
spring is booming.
When Dr. P. S. Jones, of Sydney, laid
the foundation-stone of a church, the other day
he said “he believed he had been asked to per-
form the ceremony because he bore the honored
f 'T dera of Congregationalism
lnN.b. VV. Why, in the Sydney Directory there
are no less than 500 persons who bear the honored
name of Jones. Those of the balance of the popu-
lation who don’t bear the honored name of Smith
bear the sacred name of Cohen,
Mark Twain is still a humorist. At a
recent big dinner, Mark had just finished a
piquant address when Lawyer Evarts rose, dug
both hands into his trousers pockets, after his
customary style, and jokingly said, “ Doesn’t it
strike this company as a litt’e unusual that a pro-
fessional humorist should be funny ?’’ This took
well at the time, bid when the laughter had cooled
down, Mark slowly lifted himself up, and drawled :
“ Doesn’t it strike this company as a little unusual
that a lawyer should have his hands in his own
pockets ? ’
The King of Popo, Dahomey, has written
to the London Wesleyan Missionary Society,
thanking it for sending to his African city build-
ing-lot the inestimable and never sufficiently-
appreciated Gospol, which he and his down-
trodden retainers have accepted most joyfully. He
ha 9 granted laud for the purposes of a V.M.C A.
hall, and he volunteers to rear a "brand"
new gospel-shop out of the proceeds of the
next female slave-sale. But he certainly would
like a little more of that “Red-heart” Jamaica,
a ~ TT the societjr have any more of that “ Battle-
axe Hennessy or that Kerosene brand of Whisky
well faix 1 it’s himself and the chief of the mission
who would be glad of that same.
Mr. John Sands, of Sydney, writes us an
indignant letter in which ha points out that he
hasnt sent an anonymous Jub lee Album to the
Queen, and he describes the cheap "ad.” which
The Bulletin gave him on the subject as “abso-
lutely false." We are glad to learn that Mr.
Sands is not on the grovel, but we would ask him
in strict confidence why he goes for us with his
little hatchet. The par. of which he complain!
consisted merely of an extract from the Coonam-
blB (NT.S.W.) Times, accompanied by a few lines
of our own, in which we wiped our feet on Jubilee
albums in general, and the proper course to pur-
sue under the circumstances would be to call on
our country contemporary and swim in gore
Something certainly ought to be done to a paper
which thus brings down opprobrium on a respect-
able citizen without dui cause.


POLITICAL
POINTS
Mud J. Haynes, M.L.A.
W. J. Foster—Won’t-be Judge Foster.
Julian Thomas has gone to the'South Seas.
Thick skinned Parkes ! Hyde Parkes, in
fact.
Packed out of sight—the Wright, Heaton
case.
The new N.S.W. Attorney-General is
Wise. His predecessor was made a fool of.
M‘Million is the upper millstone ; Mel-
ville is the nether ; Parkes is the ground old man.
Mr. Bernhard Ringrose Wise is the new
N.S.W. Attorney-General. The Freetrade Ring
rose Wise.
Since the advent of a Chinese baker to
Cootamundrn, N.S.W., the other bakers believe in
Protection.
Always stick postage-stamps on your
letters upside-down. Ic is time the monarchy
were overturned.
One George Standring has just written a
pamphlet entitled, “Does Royalty pay?” No,
George, it does not, if it can possibly help it.
Three hundred Chinkies arrived in the
Northern Territory during April. They paid no
poll-tax, and they’re not Commissioners either.
Will some M.P. please ask why the Prince
of Wales’ begging advertisements are given free
insertion in the N.S.W. Government Gazette?
The Northern Territory of Australia will
be as Chinese as Hong Kong. During April 81
white men left there while 371 Chinamen entered.
West Australia is looking up. The police
ran in 28 offenders per man for every 15 per
man collared by the South Australian force last
year.
Sir Henry Parkes was 72 on the 27th of
May. His friends celebrated the occasion by a
present of books in order to improve the old man’s
mind.
The Speaker of the Commons has decided
that crying “ Shame ! ” is unparliamentary. We
quite agree with him, because it is a mere waste
of breath.
Alderman Brown, of Cairns, Queensland,
says Moses paid for his own jubilee and the Queen
should pay for here. The Cairns Council refuse
to pay, anyhow.
The stock of nominated emigrants for
N.S.W. is yet unexhausted. Two hundred more
are comirg. They should be at once sent to
Melb—Albury, we mean—on arrival.
O’Sullivan, M.L.A., compared Parkes
to the Veiled Prophet in “ Lalla Rookh ” The
O’S. might have completed the comparison by
describing Foster as the deluded maidem
Cootamundra, N.S.W., boasts of a pumpkin
weighing 1171 b. To the army of the unemployed
this will be consoling as another instance of the
inestimable blessings of Freetrade in the colony.
They roasted an ox at the recent Eistedd-
fod at Pontypool in Wales. A roast ox is a rarity
in Britain. The people so seldom get a feed of
beef that the papers cannot say enough about the
wonderful event.
Even [the recreant Unionist Liberals, led
by Lord HartiDgton, have been shamed into
unanimously supporting the omission from the
Crimes Bill of the clause authorising a change of
venue to England.
An English paper sagaciously remarks :
“ The real problem to be sought is not whether
Mr. Parnell and his followers are moral ; the best
way of ameliorating the condition of Ireland is
the point we want to get at.”
At a Jubilee meeting in Hobart (Tas.),
one enthusiastic individual cried out, “ United we
stand, divided we fall.” It was all right so long
as he had the crowd to lean against, but when he
got outside they got divided and— he fell.
The Brisbane Courier the other day in-
formed its readers that recent utterances of the
Times caused serious riots at “Lohengrin” and
other parts of Ireland. Everything that kicks up
a row now-a-days is Irish accordic g to the cable.
The Imperial Instituters now publish a
list of those who donate to the unpopular fund.
Here is one of the so-called “ lists” :
A Poor Man Is: Oct
Anonymous, Exeter 0 6
Mrs. Palmer 0 i
“ After some discussion, Sir Henry Purfees
complained of having been kept in the House till
after midnight, and said that because he had been
treated in that detestable way. he would persist
in continuing the debate.” What a spirit to “ de-
bate ” in !
“I have to thank you for drawing my
attention to the report in question,” wrote Abbott
to Innes. Now, we know that members of Parlia-
ment never read the newspaper reports of the
proceedings. What bumptious affectation —what
majestic rot !
It is now rumoured that the real object of
the Chinese Commissioners’ visit is to ascertain if
there is a good opening here for the higher class
of Celestials. We think there is—providing the
unemployed whites be armed with picks and
shovels and instructed to dig the hole deep enough.
More truth from Queensland: —“The
seeming victory for Free Trade principles, which
marked the late general elections in N.S.W. must
now, in the light of more recent events, be re-
garded only as one of those expiring flashes which
commonly characterise a final extinguishment.”
A Manchester (Eng.) gentleman, in whom
the bump of impartial justice appears to be fully
developed, was so touched with the sight of a
vagrant being marched off to gaol for begging
that he sent for a policeman to arrest two ladies
who asked him to contribute to the Imperial
Institute.
The London correspondent of the S.M.
Herald has made the extraordinary historical
discovery that Ireland is a Protestant, not aR C. •
country. St. Patrick will regret to hear this. The
Herald historian and statistician tells ns that out
of five millions of inhabitants of Ireland three
millions are Protestants !
A Sydney Freetrade journal, speaking of
the U.S. Territory of Montana, says:—"The
spectacle of 30,000 bachelors anxious to marry,
and well provided with means for comfortable
houee-keeping, is as unusual as it is interesting,”
True, too true ! But, then, you see this state of
things does not exist in a Freetrade country.
There is surprise in Melbourne at Soft-
goods Sargood, ox-Minister of Defer ce, not being
made a K C.M.G. when Lorimer, the present
Minister, has got the rattle. Loriircr and Sar-
good are the Sir Joseph Po ters cf the Southern
colony. .As to their fittiss for tte (ftice, one sells
candles and the other tape—that’s al tte dif-
ference.
Speaking at Hamilton, Vic , Judge Wil-
liams said : “We are livirg in enlightened days,
and when I read of a -woman in Krglar d getting
three years for stealing a pair of ducks P makes
my blood, boil.” One never hears such undignified
not to say democratic—sentiments from the lips
of the N.S.W. judges who mix themselves up
with the Primrose League.
John Dillon, speaking on the introduction
of the Crimes Bill into the House of Commons,
said if he thought the people of England capable
of passing a law he would give up all hope
of ever seeing the two peoples (English and Irish)
shake hands and be friends. He would abandon
public agitation, and leave the country wherein
“I find mysel’ in a verra awkward poseeshun.” —Extract of syeech by the MacMillion.
no Irishmen could live but as a slave. Gladstor.e
completely turned round in his seat to see Dillon,
and cheered him in a manner described as posi-
tively wild.
The Governments of N.Z. and Victoria
have both promised to legalise public robbery by
Act of Parliament. In other words, they are
going to bring in bills authorising local bodies to
embezzle the police-rates, and the dog-tax, and
the other funds, and spend the mooey in celebra-
ting Victoria’s Jub., and if that is not public
robbery then we don’t know the meaning of
words.
Loyally commenting on the Queen’s mes-
sage of symp thy to the Belli sufferers, a Queens-
land paper says : —‘ This is mo3t gratifying, and
when the wives and children of the dead bread-
winners feel the skin of their stomachs playing the
devil’s tatoo against their emaciated backbones,
they will forget their huoger and wallow in
this cheap sympathy with unctuous enjoyment.
“ Emaciated backbone ” is good
The duties of Ms.P. in Sunny New South
Wales are varied and numerous. A country
member, not long since, received a letter from a
constituent asking him to meet a sick ~man at
Redfern station and see him to the hospital.
Although not pledged to the electors to receive
sick constituents, the member obliged and lost
nearly two days and £1 for cab-hire in obtaining a
suitable bed for the free and independent invalid
On 28th Dec., 1881, Parkes, being filled
with pride, poultry, and peppermint, observed to
some fellow-revellers round him “Suppose that
God, in His mercy, may vouchsafe that t may live
in health and strength for another ten years, I
would not give that ten years for the historical
glory of the first Napoleon.” Six and a half years
have now passed, and yet the first Napoleon seems
to be as far ahead as ever. However the Aus-
tralian St. Helena is being got ready by the
N.S.W. Protectionists.
Premier Gillies, of Victoria, intends that
Her Spacious Majesty's Jubilee shall be cele-
brated with royal blare and glare in the Cabbage
Garden even if he has to nullify existing laws in
order to ensure it. The other day ke was waited
upon by a deputation of councillors, who burnt
with loyal enthusiasm and passionate desire to
glorify the lady who wears the belt for “pre- ;
eminence in grief,” in a lavish manner, but feared
to run the risk of being prosecuted by irate and
seditious rate-payers for misappropriating public
funds if they expended the dog taxes and house
•rates on a 1 statoo,” or a gaudy address. Penny
Gillies told these dignitaries that “ he would have
no hesitation in introducing a Bill to Parliament
to indemnify Councils thus prosecuted. Duncan
will certainly die the death of a(C.M.G.
The South Australian Ministry have
agreed to take up the Payment of Members Bill
as a Government measure. . The Bill has been
passed on two or three occasions by the Assembly,
but has been rejected or shelved by the Council.
The probabilities are strongly in favour of its be-
coming law in tte forthcoming session, which
ought to bi a memorable one in the history of the
farinaceous col my, inasmuch as it is likely to in-
augurate two popular and progressive measures—
Protection to native industries and payment of
members.
Here is a prediction ! If Mr. Wise is
vigorously opposed for South Sydney the N.S.W.
Government will a' tempt to bribe the tobacco-
workers, the majority of whom reside in that part
of the city, by announcing that they will not pro-
ceed with the proposed increased excise duty on
tobacco. A petition signed by over 30,000 resi-
dents of South Sydney in opposition to the duty
was recently presented to Parliament. The Free-
trade banner has been hauled down several times
already, and will no doubt be dipped again when
it will convenience the Pro-trade-free-lection
Government to do so. W e challenge Parkes to
stand to his guns.
Thadeus o‘Kane, of the Northern Miner,
has got a Arm grip of solid fact“ Australia is to
be in future under petticoat Government. It is
to be ruled from the Prince ef Wales’ drawing
I room. A coterie of his lady friends, governors’
J wives, and such small celebrities are to square
the colonists. l ady Loch has started the game,
j and sent round the hat for the Jubilee Fund.
! Lady Musgrave has taken up the running in
| Brisbane; and lots ot flunkeys will join in. There
are ribbons and other decorations sticking out, and
it is too good a chance to be missed by t the proni
\ act terrain crowd who always push themselves to
the front to do the lickspittle work.”
I’unjaub I nglis’s sapient scheme for re-
ducing the N.S.W. deficit by knocking off the
firewood allowance hitherto eDjoyed by the public
schools of the colony is giving much satisfaction
to the doctors and undertakers. In the Kiandra
| district, where the snow is sometimes feet high,
[ the tea-and-tiger bagman’s name is held in almost
as great a veneration as that of the Herod who
wiped out the thousand innocents in one act. At
Dubbo the magnificent sum of 11s 6d. was raised
! in the Boy’s School as a fire fund, but the girls’
department could only rake in 18d., and the
female pupils are therefore dependent for warmth
on the charity of the boys who toast themselves
first, and then slip out and hug the girls. E'eetors
in general agree that whatever troubles the man
i from the Punjaub tray have in the next world a
lack of firewood will not be the most conspicuous.
We recommend the writer .of tlie sub-
joined letter to apply, in the first place, to the
Secretary- of the Law Institute of N,S.W.,and
then, failing redress, to Chief Justice Darley :
“ Dear Bulletin,— Five weeks ago you com-
mented on the way in which the N.S.W. Law
Institute manages its affairs, and as I want to bring
the conduct of Mr. , solicitor, under the notice
of those to whom he is directly amenable, you will
confer a favour by stating who is the person to
whom I should address a letter containing a sum-
mary of my case. The solicitor named charged
me £l7 17s. for the services of Barrister , who
did not appear to defend my case when tried ; he
has also charged me £l2 12s. for the services of
Barrister , who, according to the statement in
the bill of costs, left for England, taking the brief
with him, and Mr. Frank Rogers had to be
engaged (at £lO 10s.) to conduct the business
which the legal potentate who went to England
with (I presume) my money in his pocket, was
paid to perform. The solicitor refuses to deduct
from his bill the amounts first-named, and he
declines to write to the barristers concerned—l
don’t suppose they are much concerned—and ask
for a refund. His answer merely is : ‘ 1 paid
the n the money and cannot make myself offensive '
to the profession, to my oum injury !” i
WOMAN ITEMS.
At Edinburgh a fashionable parson has
just been requested to resign because he carries
his own baby about the streets.
“Bustles are going out.” They always
have been so far out that we began to imagine
one bustle would fill a block.
L. L. Lewis, husband of a charming actress*
long retired liom the stage, is trying to estab-
lish a club for factory girls in Melbourne.
A New York parson has been fined 40
dollars for kissing a lady member of his congrega-
tion without her consent. This doesn’t happen
often.
The effects of Mrs. Berry, executed mur-
deress, were auctioned at Oldham, Eng. The sale
was attended by scores of women. One ball-dre=s
alone fetched £lB.
lhis young lady evidently comprehends
the situation :
“ E°3T' Wednesday night, between Oxford-street and
Bridge-street, in Moore Paik tram, a purse con-
uXT, 8 „ a s P ° U J ld ' Ilo i e aKd a s ‘->»'»(?. tram and 'bos
RO . Wilham-street ”^ 86 retUm key t 0 MaBgie Bro ' m '
This is the neatest satire on human honesty tve
have ever seen.
From the S. M. Herald
“ WANTt-D by young lady, Board and Evidence,
PO" lrote£tant - Full particulars to BA, Newtown
Tie wisdom from this ad., don’t you see,
Our pen has no need to twist.
Just think what terrible ructions there’d bo
If “ residence ” clung to the Anglican See
While “board” was a Romanist!!
Advt. from English paper :
“To kind-hearted, rich persons, fond of anima’s•—Will
one such, wi*h noble generosity, spare a lady pain of parting
with a pair of pomes, to which she is devotedly attache d but
no Jonger means to maintain ? Immediate need. Address
This distressed dame wants, in short, to keep
a cat i iage and pa-r at someone else’s ex-
pense. Well, she’s more likely to have her re-
quest granted than is the unemployed man who
seeks subscriptions to get his wife's ‘ winter shawl
out of pawD.
In happy and prosperous London a poor
woman was recently blessed with a child which
was fortunate e o- gi to die. Unluckily her hus-
band had no turds for burial expenses, but the
corpse was removed by an undertaker who endea-
voured to collect the money from the parish in
advance. Probably he knew that parish of old
and bad given up allowing credit. He presented
his account for three weeks all in vain, and then
he kindly offered to return the body, not neces-
sarily for publication, but only as an evidence of
good faith. There is going to be a Jubilie row.
»The Macleay Herald man wrote an
article lately on “ Our Bars.” We hadn’t time to
read it, but we are perfectly willing to accept him
as an authority.
.Rev. Tenison-Woods has discovered a
yellow centipede in North Australia, It is sup-
posed to be a cross between a Chinaman and a
Mudgee “Freetrader.”
Why not call a spud a spud ? Wouldn't
it be more intelligible to the multitude ar d just as
euphonious to call a ship the Murphy as the
Pomme-de-terre ?
No Monday morning paper can appear in
Vienna, _ Sabbath work being strictly prohibited.
After this the S. M. Herald and Melbourne D.T.
don’t seem so very religious.
It may interest people to learn that the
capital of the Sydney D.T. Newspaper Co. is
£50,000 in 5000 £lO shares, which are firmly held.
When last shares did change hands £l4 was the
figure.
A cablegram says it is proposed to place
the Australian military forces under the command
of an Imperial general. Thi3 may throw some
light on the intended visit of Gereral Booth to
Australia.
In a Sydney suburb there is a house called
“Hebewill.” Well, she will sometimes; but if
you happen to be a journalist with a three-star
drought, a crooked sixpence, and a long account,
it s a million to a K.C.M G.-ship that she won’t.
The best colonial beer, according to the
Encyclopcedia Britannica, “ is made in Tasmania,
whence it m shipped in frozen blocks to Australia
and India.” The editor has probably drawn his
opinion from Tasmania being called the “ tight”
little island.
For cool cheek this little ad. from the
S.M. Herald trips off with the laurels:
—“Brought homo by mistake, bay mare, star
forehead, two white feet, branded like WR con-
joined near shoulder. Not claimed in eeven days
sold to pay expenses.” Brought from home by
mistake ! W« think the advertiser oughtto think
bimself lucky it he gets off without bemg rim in
for horse-soldiering.
At Campbelltown (N.S.W.), last week, a
gentleman resolved to clear the trees from his
paddtek by means of an explosive, and invited a
lot of friends to watch him do it. Then, having
placed a charge, he lighted the fuse and fled into
the wilderness. But there was no report, and
nothing happened. After a while he came’back
in fear and trembling and attached several more
fuses; still no results. Then the visitors began
to grow tired and c immence to poke up the dan-
gerous animal with lights at the end of long poles
and similar contrivances, but though they scorched
the tail of the sleeping monster it still declined to
go off. It was only after this fun had gone on for
some hours that they discovered they had been
wasting their energies on a horse-ball.
The enterprise shown by the king of Aus-
tralian quartz-reefers, George Lansell, of Bendigo
(Vic.), has been attended with good results. He
sank his 180 ft. sha't to a depth of 2000 ft and dis-
covered payable reefs down to that point. For
the last two years be has been reaping a golden
harvest from these discoveries. His success gave
a wonderful impetus to the reeling industry of
Bendigo, which was in a very depressed condition
at the time._ _ The result was that active work
was resumeu in practically abandoned mines, and
now there are several shafts in the district’over
1800 ft. in depth. -What is best of all, payable
reefs have been struck. The latest dhcovery
has been made in the celebrated Extended Hust-
ler’s mine, which, with its tribute -called the
Pups—used to turn out between 6000 and 7000
ounces a fortnight in the early ’7o’s. At a depth
of over 1800 ft., a large reef of exceeding richness
in some parts has been cut. It is a singular coin-
cidence that during the same week the Pups, after
years of prospecting in a gold-bearing but not pay-
able reef, at a depth of over 1500 ft, came across a
payable “shoot ”of gold. The value of these dis-
coveries to Bendign, and to the mining industry of
Australia generally, cannot be overestimated.


_BCWAR£ orjTHC DO ii ‘
1/* oociia tnere, .
■VV pu.fi/et U>J;en Aefirjr^
//Came ,nCo ourA&>se S S/00. „ ,„ s , O „ Lr/a/ure
coe cte. oOe/Xoa S Af;c<
* o/7^V
Sharlfm <g
So /none r/rcjbt' cOe.
4ccc/ /o At?oc4A, 6 Aennef/o fos*ceS Ao
A/m. Ou '
Ci)e/cornecA /^ome
a/t ~ & Se£y C( /2 -s/z n e doer _
/& /7o /ciug/j/nejT fnectfer
//e /S cc/urays tfar/nq our /?fe cDAen 7/e>-e /s no/~
&figh/es/- Oc.e. a story fof=7/~
Tny/feriou rfcti Jenedufiot;
7/je. Tre/gfibori' -fotofij.
Our c/o << f a-77 LsLn scl t/Ccbfe
ajbbet'/ey &>r»7eJ #- dee/i-Pa-icJScheme.
/o J-,Ucd> 7je 6cJeters frerf. feA^”/
foe/ fed, 6uf 7se OouJ-fo/- 7£e Cc/or/6 o/
jfe hoes a. r/c-f) outs \Zo<ce- cD^/cfi /J
7?af~a./)/> reC/a/ed injfc ——v
ntoghbor/loocf.
/e^CAI
tii ■ edict uif fru^f
K«Mj? ’
(j)e ja/e fcffo
To !)il /cermet—
f it h ifr°
L Uf /*
A Dog Story.


/4~e €./> your eye or, “P c y <xy<?
7 / / D TO / r////A/Of. /
A New “Victoria Cross of Public Life.”
"Mr. W.J. Foster-whose eloquent protests against the installation in St. Andrew's Cathedral, Sydney, of a Reredos containing a large cross, the emblem of the
Papiat religion were not long ago noticed at some lesght as-has, we are sorry to see, been plitically betrayed by Sir Henry Parkes.-Sydney Religions Paper.
PARKES (to Foster, log): “IT’S NO GOOD, OLD MAN, WE HAVE EACH OF US A CROSS TO BEAR."


Society
Governor and Lady Carington, attendee
by Lord Bertie, Captain Sheri tie, and Mr. \V. I
Wallington, were among the visit or,-) at Rani
wick races on the 21th inst. Lady Carington w
attired in electric blue silk, with scarf of Orient
design and small brown bonnet.
The Queen’s Birthday was celebrated
Government House, Sydney, by a dinner. Amon
the guests were Sir Frederick Barley (Chief Ji
tice), Cardinal Moran, Archdeacon King, Sir
Stephen, Sir Henry Parkes, Sir John Hay, Sir \\
Manning, Sir George Innes. Sir John Uobertso
and many others. Admiral Fairfax also gave
dinner in honour of the occasion.
Lady Carington is learning skating at th
Columbia Rink, Prince Alfred Park, Sydne
Her ladyship’s good example will no doubt, &c
&c., &c.
On (lit that the Jubilee fancy dress ball I
be held at Government House. Melbourne, will
one of the most brilliant sights ever witnessed
the colonies.
That athletic young 'Victorian, Mr. W.
Tobin , is to bs married to Miss Mary Keogh, 0!
St. Kilda, Melbourne, this month.
Lady Hamilton, wife of the Tasmania
Governor, who has been used to bossing “ slaveys
at Dublin Castle for 3s. (Id. per week, has startei
that game at Government House, Hobart. An
yet Lady If. is an Irish Liberal. What must th
Irish Tories be I It will take her ladyship quite
while yet to get used to the atmosphere of a toler
ably free country.
On the 18th of May, at St. Kilda, Me]
bourne, a fashionable marriage took place who
Miss Ethel C. F. James, daughter of the Rev. G
James, was united to Mr. Henry B. Richards
manager of the Bank of Australasia, Rockhamp
ton (Q.)
* # *
His Excellency the Right Honourable Si
Alban Riley, K.C.M.G., author of the £5 ba’e o
drapery and Lord Mayor of Sydney, will eithe
have to do his official Jub. very cheaply, or to pay
for it himself. The City Council has voted only
beggarly £250 for the occasion, and this sum is
Its devoted to the illumination of the Town Hall
Miserable as is this concession to the spirit o
grovel which now stalks through the land, it wa
only obtained at the cost of much seditious, not to
say treasonable, language from aldermen who die
not yearn over her Gracious, and who objected to
another man yearning at tho public expense. Sir
Alban has therefore been compelled to issue a cir
cular to the citizens of Sydney calling on them to
assist in an arrangement by which some thou
sands of children are to get their feet wet and be
stuffed with flabby pastry, and if this fails all wil
be a b'ank. Even Tasmania is ahead of N.S.W
this time. The Government at Hobart has re
solved to turn 47 prisoners out of their comfort
able cells on to the damp grass, and though severa
have positively refused to quit, the military forces
will probably be able to Are them out. Melbourne
too, is going for a general illumination, and the
loyal larrikins are called upon by the Press to
break every window which is left in darkness
Compared to this the N.S.W. programme Is no
where, no matter how brightly the radiant bun
may rise in the East on the joyous morn of June
21.
Quong Tart, the well-known Chinese
trader, of Sydney, who a short while since married
a white lady, is now a happy father. The little
stranger, which is a tartlet, is to be called Vic-
toria Jubilee Tart.
Over-paid and under-worked people be-
longing to Her Majesty's service are always
offensively loyal, as indeed they ought to be. A
specimen of the genus had dinner on tho 24th at
the public table of a leading hotel, and, in the
fulness of his well-stimulated stomach, he arose
and in hiccuppy accents proposed “ The Queen.”
To make the ceremony more impressive still, how-
ever, he endeavoured to sing the National Anthem,
which he rendered in something after this fashion ;
“ For she’s a zholly goo’ fell ——oh I mean, God
shave our Gray-shoes Quesn,” &c. The effort was
much appreciated by the assembled company.
* * *
A suit for declaration of nullity of mar-
riage—Evans v. Trednenick —has been commenced
in the N.S.W. Supreme Court. The petitioner is
the husband, and the ground of the application is
that he was insane when the ceremony was per-
formed. But if this is accepted as a valid ground,
why, not merely a sixth but a twelfth judge will
have to be appointed.
Scene, the dinner-table of an Albury
(N.S.W.) hotel. Fireman (in uniform) to land-
lord: “By Jove, you are a loyal subject. You
not only keep up Queen’s Birthday, but you give
us Jubilee turkey into the bargain.” Unsuspecting
landlord : “ What do you mean ?” Fireman
(sharpening his teeth on a muscular lump of fowl):
“ Why, I mean that this here turkey is tough
enough to have reigned 50 years.”
A womp went to have a dress litted in
Sydney the other day, and when the sleeves were
being tried on it was found she measured 19 inches
tound the arm. Nineteen inches is the right size
or a belle’s waist, by the bye.
Cast-iron wreaths, block-tin floral emblems,
and all sorts of hideous metallic imitations of
natural flowers are now the fashion in London.
When it has come to this we reckon that poetry
and sentiment are played out. The man who
could plant bras 3 flowers over his deceased wife,
or dump down a bouquet made of old boiler-plate
on the tomb of h ; s aunt, is too mean even to shed
his own tears. He would hire a professional
weepist to come and snuflle over the dear de-
parted in order to save the wear and tear of his
head.
Since the gilded calf of Sunbury began to
build himself a temple in East Melbourne rents
have gone up considerably in that neighbourhood.
There is no Atheism where the Almighty dollar is
concerned, and yet, as the French cynic observed
“ The Almighty shows his estimate of money by
the people on whom he bestows ic.”
It is proposed to start a Press Club in
Sydney. They had one in Melbourne in 1884,
which met in rooms located on the same landiDg
as a corset-maker's. The result was that exas-
perated ladies frequently rushed into the press-
room and bullied Briggs, an Age luminary, about
a pair of stays “ which you know perfectly well
should have been sent home quite a week ago.
You promised them last Wednesday evening
before 10.” The club died of selling too much
liquor for sixpence.
More Jubilee.—Her Most Gracious Ma-
jesty Queen Maria, of Well Town Stat ion, N.S.W.,
is going to hold one big corrobboree in honour of
her good fellow sister gib it plenty blanket. The
old lady will confer the honor of K.C.M.G-ahip
upon her four sable subjects. The proceedings will
conclude with the hat-trick.
It may not be generally known that the
R.C. Order of Carmelites bought, for £15,000,
the fine house and grounds near Cook’s River,
Sydney, of Mr. Absentee Tom Holt, ML C. So
while the erstwhile owner is dispensing charity-
feeds to street urchins in London, the new ten-
LAWN-TENNIS EXTRAORDINARY.
BROWN (loq): “THAT’S SET-SIX TO FOUR-COME AND WE’LD HAVE A DRINK.”
THOMPSON: “HADN'T WE BETTER GO ON FOR AWHILE AND GET UP A BETTER
THIRST?"—(They go out.
ants of his Sydney property are also engaged in
the non-productive line—at the antipodes. They
pray and meditate, and put up devotional exer-
cises for the good of all our souls, but never a
stroke of work do they. The Carmelites, how-
ever, are not like their Trappist brethren, a silent
order. They are nuns, and it would he too much
to expect women to hold their tongues even in the
most repressive ecclesiastical sense.
Sydney E. News, in its “Brevities”
column, is responsible for the following disloyal
and anti-Heatoaian sentiments:—
“ The .Que;n is getting cranky in her old »ge. She has
been giving much trouble in regard to the jubilee celebration
arrangements." “ The London tradesmen are grumblin'' at
the mean character of the royal programme for celebrating
the Jubilee. A royal procession by water was proposed
as one of the features of the celebration of the jubilee.
The Queen objected, through sheer obstinacy, to the
project.
£*ow, what does this mean?. Has Henniker
Heaton insulted Battenberg's baby, and been for-
bidden the sacred precincts of Frogmore House ?
and are the above paragraphs of a retaliatory
character ? Or has Alfred become disgusted him-
self with the whole loyal and noble hierarchy, in
consequence of the “ jook’s darter,” who does the
social for the Down and Gumtree, having struck
for higher screw ?
She was a widow, aged about 26, and as
pretty as she well could be. Her late husband
had just been put down beside the early worm,
and she went every morning to weep over his
ashes and irrigate the vegetables that grew above
his head. She had a little pale face, a pair of
violet eyes, a fluff of brown hair, and a No. 1 shoe,
and her voice was full of tears, also she wanted
to have something really utter erected to mark
the spot where he lay. The monument artist
showed her a whole book of designs, and sho
finally selected an affair at 100 guineas which re-
presented a white celestial visitant without any
boots perched on a broken stump. She said she
would call again and give a definite order, but
when she re appeared in three months’time she
had not yet fully made up her mind. She was not
quite se tearful, however, and thi9 time she
imagined that a £2O slab would do. A month
later she returned again, together with a gentleman
whom she addressed as “George,” and gave an
off-hand o der for pretty wdl any kind of a hunk
of biick with a name and date on it, value not to
exceed £5, and the mason to use his o ;vn judg-
ment, and s'.am it down on top of the grave when
finished. She re-appeared, however, two days
later, in a breathless state, followed by “ George,”
and explained that the departed had always hated
ostentation, and never like! the idea of anything
heavy above his sepulchre. “Something very
plain, now,” she began, but the mason interrupted
her by suggesting a split stick with the deceased’s
visiting-card on top, and the pair went off in a
huff. Consequently there is at least one grave
which goes bare for want of a monument, and is
likely to do so to the end.
The Lithgow Mkrcuky- professes to know
a medical gentleman in one of the colonies who
has been married six times, and struck it rich in
the way of cash every time. He is now one of
the wealthiest men in Australia, and is still fresh,
fair, and fascinating.
At Goondiwindi (Q.) it is now the custom
among young men of the upper classes to bark at
ladies when they meet them in the street.
A colonel of the military forces down
South, whose sight is defective, was “ evoluting"
his men in his usual peremptory manner. After
certain words of command, he gave one which
wasn’t attended to—so he thought. He stopped
confounded for the moment, and proceeded with
others with a like result. This was rather annoy-
ing, but it was a great deal more so for the gal-
lant warrior to hear a small boy shout out : “ Yer
men are right over there, mister—that’s the ceme-
try fence ! ” And still he keeps on active (?)
service.
A correspondent kindly writes us a long
letter on “How Larrikins are made,” but this
subject seems to us 10 be pretty well pumped dry.
Perhaps “ How Larrikinesses are made ” would be
worth investigating now for a change. We
studied this point once in a corner boardmg house
where a young and rather pretty servant girl
smiled an innocent smile as she brought up the
chops in the morning. She had four sweethearts
at once, and every evening they whistled one at
each corner below the windows. Then she would
dodge out by the side entrance and go off for a
walk with one of the quartet* e, leaving the others
tooting with no one to listen. After a while the
discovered that she possessed d»amatic talent,
and with the view of ultimately becoming a star
actress she took a position as the hied legs of an
elephant in a pantomime. When the pantomime
ended the behemoth was stowed away along with
the icebergs and the sheol-fire in the property room.
The forelegs took a billet in a public-house and the
hind ones, not caring to return to the dish-washing
industry well, the story end 3 here. Ic is a
nice little Sunday-school tale, and perhaps may do
our correspondent good.
** „ *
The policy of marrying young girls to
antiquated money-bags has received a temporary
check in Victoria. One very disconsolate widow
has been left with about a quarter of what she
expected, and is groaning beneath the testamen-
tary proviso that it is to be halved if she marries
again. Another has been served even worse. We
aren’t sorry for this ; give the young men a show.
Tradespeople are mixing up business with
Jubilee “loyalty” in the way of illumination in
Melbourne. V hen Jubilee night corned jon will
be able to read (in gas), “ John Brown’s Jubilee
Sausages are the best;” “the Jubilee £5 3ale is
the thing;’ ‘‘Jubilee coffins here”—and so on.
A correspondent o! the Argus is indignant at
this as if bourgeois “ loyalty ” didn t merely mean
the expectation of extra profit from the sale of
tripe, calf’s-liver, and sich 1
* #
Mrs. Malaprop of the Point says she
prefers the flower of the red saliva to the blue.
* * *
General Wong Yung Ho, who is an admir-
able linguist, remarked the other day that he felt
somewhat uncomfortable at Sydney Town Hall.
1 hey congratulated me,” he said, “on my pro-
ficiency in the English language, but I deeply
regret to say that I did not meet a single aider-
man to whom I could return the compliment.”
Some years ago, Kong Meng, the well-known
Chinese merchant, of Melbourne, got into a Rich-
mond 'bus and was there accosted by a cheeky
youth, who, not knowing that any gentlemen
came from China, thought to take a rise out of
lv.M. “Ah, John!” he exclaimed, “you no
savte, hey ?” But .Kong was more than equal to
the occasion. Said he : “ Look here, sir. If you
will be good enough to speak English, or French,
or German, or Chinese, or Dutch, I will converso
with you, for all those languages I thoroughly
understand. I can even comprehend you if you
speak Spanish, though I am sorry to say that my
Spanish, through long disuse, has grown a little
rusty. But, please do not again address me in a
dialect which should only be used by you for con-
versing with your own social equals.”
Mr. Justice Stephen is already dissatisfied
with the judgment-seat. He has discarded the
luxurious leather-covered easy chair for a plain
cane-bottomed one. We can cite threo cases in
support of his Honor's decision in favour of cane.
They are Victorian cases, and as we forget the
“reference," they must be accepted ex relatione
Tiik Bulletin. The late Judge Fellows, imme-
diately he was raised to the Bench, declined to sit
on stuffed leather or anything but simple cane,
though, by the way, he afterwards frequently
“ sat on ” windbags. So one of the Judicial chairs
was re-seated with cane for his particular beneflc.
After Fellows 8 death this ohair remained unused
till Holyroyd was made a judge, and then Edward
Dundas appointed himself sole legatee of Thomas
Howard’s chair, which he considered he filled
with equal dignity and learning. This mighty
chair has to be laboriously carried about by the
criers whenever the judicial Mason (E C.) sits for
thehearing of causes. Justice Williams, too, has had
his own chair made to order at his own expense.
It is a rocking-chair, which reminds his athletic
Honor of the pleasurable motion of the bicycle ;
the back is stuffed leather and the seat cane.
* * *
Will the benefits of “dear Lady Loch’s”
Jubilee Fund for the Relief of Women in Distress
be extended to England? We know of one poor
lady whose case is most deserving. She lives at
Windsor.
Augmtus Hairis lately entertained the
colonial delegates at a spread, followed by a
dance, on the stage of Drury Lane Theatre. A
“large number of the leading actresses of Lon-
don ” took part in the hop. Sir P. A. Jennings
made his debut on the boards of old Drury in an
Irish jig with Ellen Terry, and “Sir” James
Lorimor did a Highland Fling with ViolotC'ameron.
We are not infoimed whether the delegates' wives
were there.
Mrs. Fellows, widow of the late Judge
of the Victorian Supreme Court, was the inventor
a few years ago of the “In Memorisin'' column
in the Argus from which the Age and the S. M]
Herald copied. Mrs. F. inserted amongst the
“deaths” an anniversary commemoration of the
decease of her adopted daughter, but without any
pome. Then followed all the miles of ungramma-
tical and gushing lamentations, and the acres of
doggrel verse, which have since been contributed
to the Melbourne and Sydney papers from ColliDg-
wood Flat and Woolloomooloo. Mrs. Fellows has
never since sent an “In Memoriam” to the papers.
The good lady evidently feels that she has done
an irreparable injury to society. A vengeful Mel-
bourne man once proposed to present Mrs. F.
with an album containing all the elegiac and
epitaphical “ poetry ” which had appeared in the
papers sinoe she started the racket.
Sights that are never seen in Collins-
street, Melbourne : —Zox with a white vest ;
Coroner Youl with his hand in his breeehes-
pocket; J. S. Butters in a waistcoat buttoned to
the throttle; Dr. Madden with a flower in his
coat; Baron Von Mueller encased in a comforter ;
1. L. Smith behind a square yard of shirt-front;
Reginald Bright with a cigar in the corner of his
mouth ; Gillies admiring the fair at the Athemeum
Club door ; and a host of other things too numer-
ous to mention.
Kuddy gore seems about to flow at Moruya
(N.S W.), all along of a church fancy-dress ball.
The local Times says it would be nice to see a
bishop in the costume of a brigand or Ned Kelly
with a gay partner whirling in a galop, or a
crowd of incumbents doing a Highland fling ; and
the Examiner retorts that even this is be ter than
tea-fights, bazaars where button-holes are sold at
swindling prices, a series of screams passing under
the name of a concert, or the maniac gestures of
an ex-scene-shifter, and wants to know why
people shouldn't “ dance with decorum ” in the
name of religion. For our own part we agree
with the editor of the Examiner. We
don’t see why people shouldn’t even have a prize-
fight and give the gate-money to the church if they
want to.
Their Excellencies the Chinese Commis-
sioners have visited Consul E. O. Smith, of the
Cannibal Islands. This is a sign of the times.
While the Consuls in Sydney of all the great
powers of Europe have not had this honour paid
to them by General Ho and Consul Tsing, the
potential State in the South Seas, represented by
Smith, has been "pre-eminently’ distinguished.
Can it be that China contemplates an alliance
There is a Curio on Exhibition in the window of Bray
Brothers, George-street, that is unique; it is in the shape Of
» candlestick that can be attached to any smooth surface by
ome unseen process. For my Lady’s Boudoir it’s immense.*
Bray Brother®, importers of China, Glass and Earthen-
ware, Kerosene Lamps, Globes, Chimneys, and §nest hand-
painted China. Bric-a-Brac, articles of virtu, and articles for
interior Decoration. A special artistic line of Fairy Lamps.
Goods ent on hire.'
At the Mayoress’s Reception, on the 11th, stveral of the
most tasty and stylish costumes worn by our fashionables
were from Mrs. McCathie’s, 86 and 90 King-street, where
gowns and millinery are all designed and made by first class
artists"
The best selection of Boots and Shoes to be had in Sidneyi
and at a reasonable price, far less than London or Paris, a
at Must s Boot Emporium, 408 George-stfedt, corner of
Sydney Arcade. Point toes for fashion, low hauls for con.-
fO't; to suit youne or old. in fact, to suit everybody. Come
an 1 see for yourself.*


with the Cannibal Islands against France,
and that the New Hebrides will shortly be jointly
occupied by China and the C.I. ? We respectfully
request their Excellencies to note on their shirt-
cuffs that the address of Consul Oakley, of Mel-
bourne (of the C.I ), is Collins-stroet West, top
front garret over Gemmell and Tuckett’s auction
room. If the Commissioners call after dark they
should bring a few matches, as the stairs leading
to the Consular palace are corkscrewy and shaky.
If the Consul should be out, his boy will send
somebody down to Wolstenholme’s for a iug of
beer.
* * *
Dear Bulletin, —Don’t you think you are
rather giving yourself away by letting the Potts Pointers
know that the Surgeons-general are calling themselves
“ General.” In Jersey, 30 years ago< there were two generals
whom I could never spot in our monthly Eighteen-penny
Prayer-b3ok (the Army List). One was a deputv-assistant-
quartermaster-general and the other an ex-assistant-com-
missary-general, ranking respectively as ensign and cornet,
although they were over 60 years old. See what you have
done! The trumpet and sergeant-majors of the Sydney
Lanceahs will be Major Pottdu-Point and Major Ventre-;V
Terre ; every gun-captain of the Naval Brigade will be Cap-
tain H.M.S. Sir Henry; and Heaven knows where th
game you have started will end. Even the captain-general
(if there is one) of the N.S.W. Fall-Backs will be “ morning,
general—does Germany mean war?” The Colonial Secre-
tary might travel (among mugs) incog, as Colonel Parses.
You’ve made an error.— Hiram Abiff.
* * *
Sir Sawmill Griffith, K.C.M.G., Premier
of Queensland, and the Chinaman’s best friend,
has been revisiting the 'ome of his hancestors. At
Merthyr he blossomed into a hero, being welcomed
by the school children, a body of townspeople, the
police, millionaire Crawshay, of Cyfarthfa, a
deputation, a brass band, a fish-cart, and a pig’s-
trotter man, and he was hauled through the
streets in a borrowed carriage amid great excite
ment. In the evening there was a banquet, and
Sir Sawmill rose with tears in his voice, after the
beef and grass had been cleared away, and told
the people how glad he was to return to his birth-
place. (Cheers.) It was the only birthplace he
ever had, and he meant to Btiok to it. He had
been born there when very young, at which period
of his life he had not the full use of his legs, and
when he became an angel and a pair of wings
grew out of his shoulder-blades, he hoped to be
buried there. His object all his life had been to
do good, and he meant to keep on doing it. Then
there were more drinks, and Griffith Ap Griffiths,
seconded by Evan Ap Evans, and ably backed by
John Ape. Jones, stated that they all felt proud
and happy on this auspicious occasion.
* * #
Mr. J. T. M‘Mahon, assistant-Superin-
tendent Post Office Department, Sydney, is to be
married this month to Mrs. M. O’C. Blake, of
Hawthorn, Waverley.
Of entrancing interest to all loyal subjects,
and especially to Mr. and Mrs. Jenkins is the fol-
lowing ingenuous par, cut from the last letter of
the Sydney Mornino Herald’s London corre-
spondent :
“ The Queen when she makes these visits abroad always
sleeps in her own bed. It is sent on from Windsor, and is a
plain low bedstead, with simple bedding and curtains. Her
bath is also sent on ahead, and other familiar and useful
articles accompany her on her travels.”
How is it that those dense people, the Fairfaxes,
don’t get a stipendiary humorist on their staff ?
But hold —perhaps they do. Perhaps he’s their
London correspondent.
The Yankee “ surprise party ” is gradually
becoming acclimatissd in N S.W., and a brutally
commonplace and vulgar nuisance it is. The
basis of this alleged entertainment consists in a
lot of men and women rushing the house of a
friend who doesn’t expect and probably doesn’t
desire visttors, and making a night of it on his
premisos, while he wishes them in Gehenna, but
doesn’t care to tell them so. These Goths bring
their own provisions with them ; they also bring
their own music by way of adding insult to injury,
and grind out harp obligatos full of unshed tears
without asking permission. When they first ap-
pear they are disguised in loose white robes, caps,
and masks, but after a while they take off these
costumes and reveal their native ugliness, and at
this crisis each one dumps down his toothsome
bun and his bundle of carrots on the table, and
the feeding commences. Sometimes the host is
apprised in an underhand way of what is going to
happen, but as a rule the ca'amity hursts on him
suddenly. The performance concludes about
midnight, and when the crowd, which is to the
last as clumsy and inconsiderate as a lame
elephant, has been seen safely off the premises,
the depressed victim looks round on a scene of
crumbs, fragments, dirty plates, and fruit squashed
into the carpet, and anathematises his visitors
with a curse which no curse yet built can compare
to. Then he goes to bed, and a badly scared cat
crawls out of its concealment and spends the
night walking over the wreckage, and next morn-
ing is found very ill from indigestion and repent
ing in the hack yard.
Even the weather is a bit of a humbug
and the sun is an arrant courtier There was, for
a wonder, fine weather for the N.S.W volunteer
review on 21th May. Three thousand troops were
on the ground. Hundreds of people went to see,
and the Governor, in pursuance of a costly old-
world superstition, was received with an expen-
sive and unmeaning salute of 17 guns Laly
Oarington, who rode by the side of her lord, aud
attracted much attention, wore a most becoming
riding-habit of navy blue cloth and a silk hat.
The most gorgeous personages at the show were
members of the Sydney corps of Lancers, who, as
they all carry coloured poles, seem to be barbers
by trade. They indulged in various intricate and
puzzling manoeuvres of horsemanship to attract
the attention of the girls, and succeeded according
to their different degrees of incompetence. One
beardless boy in regimentals and sabretache, with
a hideous javelin sticking out of the heel of his
boot, galloped up and down the line incessantly,
apparently with 1 o other object than to
wind his horse. At all events he succeeded
The whole affair was of a draper's-apprensioe-
flnery style of magnificence.
The bachelors of Windsor (N.S.W.) gave a
very successful plain and fancy dress ball in the
local School of Arts on the 23rd inst. The hall
was beautifully decorated with flags, ferns, and
flowers, and the ladies’ costumes were too utter.
Dancing was continued until 1 a.m.
• * *
On Thursday, 26 h May, the Benedicts of
the Australian and Union Clubs gave a very plea-
sant ball in Sydney Exhibition Building, fully
700 guests beiDg present. The arrangements were
carried out in the style which is called princely,
because princes at one time did things in that
way. They don't now. The hall was decorated
with arches of evergreens, bouquets, flags, Chinese
lanterns, &c The Governor and Lady Carington
arrived at 9 o’clock, accompanied by Lord
Bertie, Captain Sheriffe, and Mr. WallingtoD,
Lady Carington wore a dress of rich
white satin and silk striped, and exquisite
diamond jewellery ; Mrs Salomons was attired in
black satin and lace; Mrs. Prendergasc, pale
mauve crape with glass pendants ; Mrs. Hogg,
b'ack satin |and beaded tulle; Baroness vcn Lin-
denfels, maroon velvet and brocade ; and a number
of ladies turned out in that newest of all tints—
J nbilee purple.
Lady Brassey held an At Home on board
the Sunbeam while at Adelaide, which was largely
attended by the local residents. The old nobility
of Glenglg, however, mostly stayed away, as they
considered the Brasseys’ aristocracy a deal too
ne w.
* < »
The Cinderella to he given by Mrs. Riley,
wife of the Mayor of .Sydney, will eventual early
in August.
The ladies’ jumping prize at the Sydney
Agricultural Show was, in one sense, a frost, as
but one solitary jumping lady (Mrs. Ambioic)
appeared to compete. The equestrienne took her
horse, Nimrod, over the rails in capital style
* * *
It is now the correct caper in Melbourne
society for young girls to be escorted to the
theatre by married men who leave their wives at
home. It is also correct for young wives to pay
long visits once a year or so to their friends in
another colony, and to go round anywhere and
everywhere accompanied by a tame male dude
whom they introduce as a “ cousin." There has
been a wonderful increase of “ oousins ” of late.
N.B.—Divorce Court business is looking up.
The S.M. Herald informs us that in the
“ course of a few remarks,” Lord Brassey
gave it out that he was “in favour of Im-
perial Federation 1 ” Lord Brassey surely didn’t
come all the way from London to inform us poor
“ colonists ” that Queen Anno is dead ! We knew
AN INFANT’S ENVY.
SMALL BOY (in George-streel, Sydney, to his father): “I SAY, PAPA, WHAT NICE ROADS
THEY GIVE THE HORSES TO WALK ON. DON'T YOU WISH YOU WAS A HORSE.”
Lord B. was favourable to Imperial Federation,
even though we have never grovelled at his num-
ber nines. We will now go a step further and
upon our very own unauthorised responsibility
will state that Lord Sunbeam Brassey revels in the
Imperial Institute—opposes Home Rule for Ire-
land—swears by H.R.H. Albert Edward—wor-
ships every statute of Albert the Good—supports
every Tory motion, and takes off his beaver every
time a penny whistle, with a ragamuffin at the
end of it, toots out the National Anthem. We
will now take up a collection.
It is stated in Melbourne that Miss Duffy,
daughter of Sir C, Gavan D., will shortly enter a
convent.
In the Cabbage-Garden, the other day, a
fair and fascinating girl fell desperately in love
with a dark moustaohe which heartily recipro-
cated her more than platonic affection. Unfor-
tunately, the gentleman was as poor as a journal-
ist, and the girl a portionless orphan. As there
was evidently no earthly prospect of holy matri-
mony, the girl, with a rapid and comprehensive
wink to her alter ego, accepted the offer of a
I weal thy old soul with the gout and a blind eye, and
tripped off to the altar blushing in white satin and
orange-blossoms. The honeymoon waxed and
waned, and the old buffer was delighted with his
gazelle cyed charmer. They came home and
Everton toffee was a circumstance to the sweets
of their connubiality. One day, however, hubby
returned from the office to find his bride placidly
resting herself on the knee of a dark-moustached
dude who was giving a lecture on osculation,
with diagrams. “ Mr?. !'’ roared the spouse
dropping his black bag and gamp—“ Madam ! ! ! ”
Up jumped the lady with the sweetest of smiles
and explained that this was her dear, dear brother
just back from ’Frisco ! The old man seemed to
accept the situation, and ewn asked the long lost
fraternal to dinner. The lady thought matters
were just booming, and practised her usual wifely
airs with a face placid enough to mislead Othello
himself. But the next evening a tornado with the
gout and a blind eye burst upon that household.
The husband had been to the Registrar-General’s
office, and had discovered th\t the parents of “ the
wee wifie " had given to the world nothing be-
yond the lady who now bore his name. The cur-
tain fell on a yellow-haired angel weeping on the
outside of a suburban villa
From the S.M. Hbra.ld :
‘ ‘ Q.IRLS wanted, for fitting up. Apply Picture and
Show Frame Factory, 399 George-street. ’
They fit up the blondes, we suppose, with blue,
The dashing brunettes with pink,
The brown-haired girls in some sombre hue,
Such as seal or pearl-grey, we think ;
So if you’re in wait of a girl to match
Your drawing or dining-room suite,
You say, “Send me round with the greatest
despatch
A girl fitted up in red-beet.”
At one of the balls recently given at a
certain colonial Government House, a young man
overheard the following conversation between His
Excellency and the local French Consul. The
Consul was supporting the ball-room wall and
watching the dancers when H.E. came up.
“ What! not dancing?” he said in French, “ Why
don’t you?” “Because I cannot,” returned the
other in the same language. “ Pooh ! ” continued
lI.E. with a chuckle, “ Anything does for them
out here! If you find yourself in a hole shake
hands." But the worst impertinence lies in the
fact that the two Personages believed themselves
unintelligible to those present because they spoke
in French!
A very swell dinner was given at a certain
Australian club not long ago, and on the bill of
fare was bcche-de-mer soup. This petage. on
which the Club rather plumes itself, happened to
be made from beche de-mer supplied by a well-
known South Sea trading captain, who, being a
bit of a wag in his way, and addicted to ghastly
jokes, played a horrible trick on the select com-
pany. In short, he mixed with the sea-slugs cer-
tain dried trophies cut from the human body by
South Sea warriors who had slain iheir enemies in
battle. He (the captain) loudly boasted of the
success of his “practical joke” before leaving
port, and now it is utterly unsafe to ask any mem-
ber of that club how he likes beehe-de-mer.
Hideous as is this story, which is strictly true, it
is not much more horrible than that related of the
French liberc who, while on his way to Europe,
told Mr. Henniker Heaton that “he had expiated
his offence and was now going to spend the rest of
his days at Nancy.” Being pressed, he stated
that the “ offence ” in question had con-
sisted of secretly kilJi' g his wife’s lover, frying
the liver of that amorous gentleman, and serving
it up for the breakfast of the unsuspecting lady.
But there is nothing new under the sun. “How
did you like the dish you have just eaten ?” asked
the haughty baron. “It was good, my lord,” re-
plied the baroness. “It should indeed have been
swee',” said the baron, with blazing eye and cor-
rugated brow, “ for it was the heart of your lover
Raoul de Courcy.” Where did we read it? Well,
wasn’t it in “Haddon Hall?"
* * *
It must be a woman who “ dashes off” the
SM. Herald's “In the House” report. Who
but a dear young thing with banged hair and a
forty inch crinolette could possibly write this :
“ Members lay about in various attitudes of somnolence
and indifference ; and the Sergeant-at-Arms—the genial,
handsome, and dignified Sergeant-at-Arms—meditatively
stroked his moustache.”
Why, it reads like the opening chapter of a
boudoir novel. Apropos, the N.S. W. Sergeant-at-
Arms, now we come to think of it, really is a
gorgeously handsome young man. He revels in
his abnormal muscularity, and has a grip like
that of a grizzly bear. The girls like to shake
hands with the Sergeant. He always makes them
feel as if lie were taking them into his custody.
* * *
Matters matrimonial must be dull at pre*
sent. A groom on the Bourke-WanaariDg (N.S. W.)
road who wished to become a bridegroom recently
advertised for a wife in one of the weekly news-
papers, with the result that there were thirty-six
applicants for the job. Letters asking for the ap-
pointment came from all parts of Australia.
A certain Sydney alderman proposes to
attend Mayor Riley’s Jubilee Fancy Dress Ball in
the character of “John Brown, late of Windsor
Castle.” A new Treason Felony Act should be
framed to meet the case.
It, came out the other day that an English
half-pay naval officer, now serving in a colonial
ship, remitted to his wife and family (whom he had
left behind in England) the sum of £2 in three
months. They are now "on the parish.” He
may be a good officer, but the ratepayers who are
supporting his wife and family no doubt have
their own opinions concerning his value as a
husband.
The opinion gradually gains ground that
Governor Carington should have been the ad-
vance agent of a circus. He can make a big
“ splash ” without spending too much money. Now
that we come to think over the matter Governor
Carington is the advance-agent for a circus. The
Imperial circus.
Which indirectly reminds one that the
wail of the hungry K.C.M.G. comes across the
hollow-sounding and mysterious sea. Her Gracious
has invited the Knights and Companions of St.
Drinkall and St, George to dine in the royal
palace of St. James, and she has left them to find
and pay for their own refreshments. Victoria,
by the grace of God, gives elbow room gratis, hut
the victuals must be paid for at so much a head.
She doesn’t even stand the mustard or “ shout”
some tea and shrimps or a trifle of bloater paste ;
everything from the gin down to the fried sausage
has got to be defrayed by the company, and
they will probably be charged for breakages.
St, George’s Hall, Windsor, was built at the
expense of the nation as a place where the
Order could meet and have an unleavened bun
and a little milk on occasion, but there they
would have to be catered for by her Gracious at,
say, half-a-crown a head, and she will see the
whole Australian peerage swamped with one
wide, scathing, far-reaching, comprehensive curse,
dead, skinned, embalmed, and seated in kilts
upon a prickly pear before she will stand a dinner
to anybody. If the Imperial Conference dele-
gates don’t like it they can do the other thing. If
any K.C.M.G. won’t face the expense he can go
and dine by himself on bread and butter and a
suspicious egg in a fourpenny ham-shop, or he can
jubilate in the coffee-room of his own hotel. It
doesn't matter to her Gracious either way ; one
hungry and disgusted Australian more or less is of
very small account, indeed, now-a-days.
Several baubles, it is said, will shortly be
conferred in Victoria through the agency of the
Imperial Conspiracy. Duncan Gillies and Mayor
Cain are to be made K. C. M. G’s. ; E. G. Fitzgibbon
and R. L. J. Ellery are to be C.M.G’d., and per-
haps the Chancellor of Melbourne University may
get something. It’s not likely that they will go
through the farce of trying to lay a poisoned bait
for (all honest men between Cape York to Cape
Otway will here take their hats off) Chief Justice
Iliginbotham.
Dr. Bevan, the swell divine of Melbourne,
is one of those clergymen who delight in telling
people that Her Gracious is a great deal better
than her predecessors. This we cheerfully admit.
On 24th May he said that when, at 12 years old,
she was informed that she would be Queen, she
replied that “ she would be good ” Our five-year-
old, we have discovered, makes the same remark
when we administer parental rebuke in the shape
of a spanking for drowning the cats of an exten-
sive district in the family tank. And yet Dr.
Bevan never says anything nice about him.
There was a row among the waiters assist-
ing at Sir Henry Loch’s last big dinner. Two of
them wanted to have it out in the banquet-hall,
with the great man as bottle-holder. Not that
Governor Loch is much of a bottle-holder. Always
helps himself, and passes it along, yerknow.
Sir Henry Loch takes more after his
Gracious Sovereign every day. At his Queen’s
Birthday banquet two hairy-legged pipers prowled
about the banquet-hall, playing something which
was commonly believed to be Shool. Her Gracious
adopts the same device to keep people from com-
ing too often.
At Manchester, the other day, Bishop
Moorhouse (childless) said curates had no business
to get married before they could afford to support
a large family. At Melbourne, last week, Bishop
Goe (also married and childless) said ‘ ‘ when he
heard of the numberof marriages which were cele-
brated at St. Jude’s Church he was not at al
surprised at the populous state of Carlton.” What
do Moorhouse and Goe know practically of these
matters ? If the other fellows were like them
there would be no families to support, and Carlton
would soon he depopulated. They remind ns of
elderly spinsters discussing the joys of honej-
mooning.
There i* nothing succeeds like success. The most success -
fal man in his line, judging from the number of pUrons who
tiroog h a places of b lsimss, is JoilN NoaKE, 320 and 346
Georgc-street. and 33 Hunter street. Smokers’ materials of
the b ist onlf.*J|
The combination of ingredients used in making Rowley’s
Cough Emulsion is such as to render t the best-known
lemedy in the worl-4 for Coughs, Colds, Asthma, or Bron-
chitis. Ftcan be obtained di-ect froraW. M. Rowley, Chemist,
Bourke-street, Fast Melbourne. Price 2s. 6d. per bottle, and
from aU chemists.*
Dr. Frederick Ware, having returned from an extended
tour of the C mtinent and Ameriea, brings with him all taat
is new in Dentistry. Dr. Ware has Resumed Practice, and
may be consulted at Kidman's Building*’, corner George and
Market streets. Take Lift.* ..


Ihey go one better in Paree. Says th
gifted “ Stella,” in the Sydney Morning Herald
in re the sale of the French Crown iewels :
“The French Government agents hive not scrupled to ac
dress the public as fallows: ‘We hope to find the priocipa
objects of this marvellous treasure on the necks of ou
charming society ladies and of our prominent demi-mondaines
It is certainly to be desired that these jewrls should pas
from the domain of Royalty to the domain of Beauty, wher
our Parisiennes exercise absolute and undisputed power.’ "
‘ Stella ” (who is either a parson or an old maid
holds up her hands in virtuous indignation at le
reines gallia*des beiog accorded a “position,
however equivocal that “position” may be—in
Parisian sassiety. “Stella” evidently has
healthier opinion of the European societj
woman than most people have. The re
cord of Lady Mordaunt set against that of Coia
Pearl wouldn’t result in a veiy big beating for the
aristocrat. But then “Siella” writes her little
column for a paper that believes that anybody
with a handle to his name is not only incapable o
anything vicious, but must necessarily be pos
sessed of god like atiribute?. We think the peer-
age resembles the old ceities in a great many ways
th yes !
• • •
Divorce on “ time-payment ” is the latest
thing in commercial circles. “ Divorce and law
business undertaken at agreed charges, payable
by instalments if desired.”
* * *
Sir Wobert Stout, the N.Z. Premier, is a
teetotaller, and when My Lady gives a weception
the sparkling clicquot gives place to Non-such.
Fancy gushing twaddle and good gwaciousness
over a glass of sparkling wind and water !
A “ sirciety ” lady went into a bookseller’s
shop in Wellington, N Z., and, taking up a book,
she remarked : “ What ! John Gilpin, by Calde-
cott I Why, I thought it was by Tennyson 1” Of
such are the local Jubilee committee.
Advertisement from Melbourne Age :
“ MaD, young, wants to learn kettledrum. State terms
by letter, Drumintr ”
What is the Yarra Bend Asylum for if such a man
is allowed to go about at large ? Imagine liviDg
next door to a man who was learning to play the
kettledrum.
Singer, junior, of sewing-machine celeb-
rity, is engaged to a young lady in the South of
Tasmania. YouDg Singer is a man of many notes,
in fact, a millionaire.
• • •
Precocious Son (aged 5): “At what
o’clock, dad, was I born?” Parent (paternal):
“ About one o'clock in the afternoon, my son.”
Precocious Son (incredulously): “That’s impos-
sible. You’re always down town at that hour of
the day.”— Murkan Print.
A Victorian curate who recently cast his
eye cn one of the elderly, ugly daughters of the
land has disappeared. The golden girl declined
his overtures politely but firmly, and a paper
cojlar. supposed to be his, has been picked up on
the river bank.
The Argls dr.vels about the “ Queen’s
matchless widow hcod.” Hang ir,! If her Gracious
bad been matched again her widowhood would
have come to an end.
The Referee
Saturday proved a miserable day for the
intercolonial eight-oar raoe, rowed this year on
the Parramatta, and the show made by the Sydney
crew was in keeping with the day The Victorians
were out first, and were detained fully 15 minutes in
the bleak rain before N.S.W. embarked in their
eight at the starting-point. Victoria got a shade
the best of the start and continued to draw out a
lead until the mile point was approached, when
Bros quickened up and drew nearly level, Victoria
Bhooting the point in smin. 2sec. After this the
pace began to tell on the Sydney crew, who rowed
a bit wildly, and nearing Putney, Gerald Kennedy,
No. 3, caught a very bad crab, throwing No. 2,
Freeman, out of his stroke, and bow, Seale, off his
slide. The race was then virtually over, as Seale,
after a vain attempt to fix his slide, settled down
to rowing as on a fixed seat, and the Victorians
passed the win Ding-post any number of lengths to
the good in 17min. 12jsec. The time, carefully
taken by chronograph, is the fastest yet done in
an intercolonial eight-oar race.
...
From the start the Victorians showed
superiority in their style, and the accident, or
rather bad firm of the N.S.W. crew approaching
Putney, did not affect the result of the race. The
Victorians with the medium slide reached out
equally, and with a “ lift all together ” at the
beginning of the stroke, the boat fairly jumped
from under them. The Sydney stroke, Bros,
rowed splendidly, but there was an absence in the
orew of the clean life so noticeable with the Vic-
torians, and, notwithstanding the long slide and
dragging stroke of the local crew, they rowed ihe
faster stroke. The N.S.W. eight, did a trial in
17min. 4sec., but when asked to race the distance
in eight seconds more they conclusively showed
that they were not constructed in that manner,
Mr. Amateur Bennett “is much annoyed
at the comments of the public ” over the races at
the Suburban B.C. meeting. The writer presumes
he refers to the hooting of the crowd when he left
the track in the last race.
Mr. Tudall has given 500 guineas for the
imported Irish hunter, Blind Harper.
The welsher who booked wagers at Rand-
wick on Queen’s Birthday in the name of that
herculean pug., Jack Thompson, and then
“cleared,” was a “pluck'd ’un.” Had Jack
caught him, Mr. Welsher would have thought he
had head five minutes’ wrestle with a locomotive.
* * *
Surely Anderson’s backer could nover have
thought seriously his man had any show with
Davis. When the pair met in outriggers on Par-
ramatta course on Friday, Davis was never ex-
tended, and won in 2=rJ;i. 13;}sec. Stanbury and
Nelson row for £lOO on Jua" i;[,
T. P. Jenkins seems to be the coming
bicyclist. The sooner he knocks out the tricksters
at the head of the trade, the better.
* * *
The game Gaudaur has, it is cabled, wiped
out Hanlan by three lengths. Ho will now pro-
ceed to wipe out Our William. May the best man
vtin I
At the Hunt Club lunch given by Mr.
Smart, at Greystanes, Parramatta, last week,
Lord Carit gton said that he never had seen such
wonderful achievements over timber as dur-
ing his residence in Australia. His Lord-
ship also related that he had seen a meeting of
LABOUR AND CAPITAL.
200 hun'smen in England, but only four got
over the first fence, Iff. lin. high, the first one
being an A ustralian.
Three months ago the coursing reporter of
the Melbourne Leader owned a yellow pup which
howled all day and all night—and all the week as
well. He gave it away at last, and now the little
brute has won the Victorian Coursing Club Derby,
and is worth £2OO.
In the Sovereign Plate at Rand wick, on
Queen's Birthday, Home Rule ran first, and Coer-
cion third. So mote it be 1
Frank Hewitt (he lives in Sydney) still
holds the record for the half-mile, which he ran in
lmin. 53Jsec.
* * #
Much rain caused the postponement of all
sporting in and around Sydney last Saturday,
except the boat-race. 1 Owing to the heavy
nature of the course,” &c , wouldn’t wash on that
occasion.
Actually, really, at last ! Public faith in
Melbourne is shaken in the genuineness of
wrestling matches ! The genuineness of “ the
gate ” is unquestionable, though.
* * •
Edwards, the Victorian coach, all along
regarded the eight-oar race as a certainty for
Victoria. The bettiDg at the start was 6t04 on
N.S.W. Later on, though, it gradually veered
round to 20 to 1 on Victoria.
The illustrious L. E. Myers writes his
Yanl ee friends that there is naught to admire at
Randwick races but the five-shilling lunch, and
that Australian hones are very thin in the quar-
ters and very IODg in the back. My ers complains
that the Australians won t believe his yarn about
the Mnrkan two-year-old which could break lmin.
13sec. for three-quarters of a mile with Bst. up.
Then he goes on to speak of things h® really
understands : how Hutchens came out here with
a “blatherskite” for a backer, and made a fool
of himself; how he ran for and won the only
match he tried for, that with Malone. Also his
opinion about Samuels the blaekfeilow, whom he
describe s as a slip-shod runner, but in reality a
wonderful man, capable of running 150 yards in
14 3-isec.
Masquerade, the winner of the Sydney
Metropolitan Stakes of ’B2, is now driven about as
a oab-horse in India 1
Poor Joe Thompson won the Birthday
Handicap, at Flemington, with Master John,
without having a shilling on his horse. Joseph
had to content himself with a skinner on the race.
* * *
Lady Ashton, best and wildest of jumpers,
fraotui ed both her shoulders at Flemington on
Queen’s Birthday, and a policeman’s bullet put
Mr. Pearson’s old mare out of her trouble. Lady
Ashton’s nasty triek of jumping at an angle of 45
caused such a lot of accidents that she can be |
better spared than many a worse performer. Her
last big win was in the Steeplechase atV.R.C.
Spring meeting.
Melbourne police stop boxing contests ;
but they allow public garotting at the so-called
Graeco-Roman “wrestling” contests In the
glove fight at Sydney between Mol’oy and Young
Mitchell, the Murkan, Molloy weighed over list,
to the Yark’s 109 t. 41b , and punched him a deal
with his right. Molloy is a scientific boxer, and had
all ihe best of the row, but, hurting his hand, he
lost his perhaps otherwise good chance of kaocklng
Mitchell out. Mitchell made a splendid show
At least nine steamers followed the Intercolonial
eight oar race! Pettengell, the N.Z. boxer,
who wees recently defeated in Sydney by the
“ Champion Amateur,” has suffered defeat at the
hands of a big half-caste named Laing, at Wan-
ganui. Dick Matthews, the Yankee, has now
challenged Laing The Baron, favourite for the
Eoglish Derby, at 5 to 4 on was defeated
by the 10 to 1 chance Merry Hampton,
who is by Hampton from Doll Tearsheet
A ’bus-driver on the Newtown (?ydney) road has
been 41 years handling the ribbons on that line.
His name is Ireland—o’d Ireland Mr. Gus.
Brown, the champion ca'cb-as catch-can wrestler
and light-weight pugilist of the Pacific Coast, is a
passenger by the Alameda for Australia They
are going to lower the Victorian death-rate. The
V.R.C. have decided to make some importaui
alterations in the Steeplechase course. All the
jumps are to b 9 made more negotiable Sam.
Mathews, one of the smartest wrestlers in tin
States, will come 10 Australia in August
M‘Cartby, of Sydney, is now anxious to box the*
American. Mitchell; and Dooley will lake his
chance with Costello, for asubst ntuil ttake ii.
each cise At Ballarat, on Saturday, the Tas-
manian footballers defeated the locals by 5 to 4
Mr. W. G. George, champion mile ruoner
of the world, returns to England per Lusirania.
“The Times" v. Parnell.
There are shown above six reproductions of ad-
mittedly genuine signatures of Mr. C. S. Parnell,
the Irish Nationalist leader. The seventh signa-
ture—the top one —is the one in dispute. The
Times says it is genuine; Parnell declares it is
an unblushing forgery.
David Buchanan on industrialism in
N.S.W. :—“ In N.S.W., if a woman made lemon-
squash at the corner of a street her work was
called a manufacture.
The Welsh farmers, it is cabled, are in
open revolt against the monstrous law compelling
them to contr.bute tithes to support a corrupt
ecclesiastical system in which they don’t believe.
The cable also reports that the Scotch crofters are
likewise in open insurrection, and have been fired
on by the police. Meanwhile, Salisbury and his
herd of leeches are parsing a Coercion Bill to
settle the Irish. Hal ha 1
The following letter from the meek and
lowly Anglican Bishop Barry, who has gone to
Hingerland for a trip, was read last Sunday in
the churches of tte Sydney diocese :
"Dearly beloved in the Lord,—Although temporally
absent, I de«ire as usual earnestly to commend to your sup-
port the collections on Trinity Sunday .’
There are three other paragraphs, all of them
about money ! Let us pey !
At tho Sydney annual consular dinner,
Mr. E O. Smith, Consul f>r the Cannibal islands,
presided. Authropophagy, however, was not in-
dulgtdin. Mr. George Washington Griffln, the
U.S Consul, made a speech, which is the only
one reported “in the first person" by the daily
papers. Said he, at a festive hoard, mind you :
“ the soil of N S.W. is of lacustrine formation of
unknown depth”—&c., &0. Good heavens ! And
this is the representative of the nation which gives
the world all its humorists 1
ANOTHER INDIAN MUTINY.
Ever find anon the queston crops up among
thinking men—“ Will there be another Indian
Mutiny?” We give a few reasons for and against
such a contingency.
The Optimist’s view : —The mutiny of 1857 was
only a mutiny of native soldiers. The soldier of
to day is far more loyal and enlightened. There
are thoutands of native soldiers drawning pensions
whose voice is in tevor of peace. Let the present
rulingpower be overthrown, and the land is a prey
to the feuds of Mussulman and Hindoo. Mission-
aries are yearly extending Christianity. By means
of the railways now in existence troops—of whom
there are more than 70.000 in India—can be rapidly
massed, and crush out any incipient rebellion. As
little as the Indian loves the English, he loves the
Russian less. The manifold interests of all lidia
are bound up in the preservation of peace.
The Pessimist’s view:—The next uprising will
not be a mutiny of soldiers, but the revolt of a
people. The native soldier pensioners could easily
be alienated by guaranteeing pensions under a na-
tive form of government. Although there are dif-
ferences be tween Mussulman and Hindoo, it Is noth-
ing like as marked as in years past. Britsh educa-
tion is di-solving the old faiths, but is putting
nothing in their places. The missionaries cannot
keeppace with the state-aided schools. Christianity
amorg the natives is yet too small a force to enter
into practical politics. As to the railways, the
Government h»s allowed native engine drivers,
stokers and guards; tt e lines are too long to be
well guarded, and in case of revolt, would
practically be under native control. The trade
of India is quite independent of the Govern-
ment. To Indian toleration is coming a powerful
ally—the growth of natioal life. Englishmen have
given the educated natives of all creeds a common
language. A blii.d devotion to their leaders is a
characteris ic of the Ind an races. ’here is very
much less respect for the Europeans thanformerly.
Toe taxation of India, for interest on debt, railway
loans, pensions, etc., is over £37,000,000 peran-.um
all of which would be wiped out if India were free
from England. Ihe national congresses are the
begir nings of national life. The na' ional vanity of
the Indian native is rising like a flood. He seeß no
reason for being taxed to pay Europeans togovern
him, when he could do it hinself, and for far less
money than it now costs him. “England in
India,” to quota a native writer in the native
press, “is simply a wise and benevolent des«
potism.”
Frank Stuart, cf 28 Fieeschool-st., Calcutta, a
gentleman widely and favourably known through-
out the length and breadth of India, and with un-
surpassed opportunities in his professional capacity
for obtaining inside opinions on questions of
national importance, tells the following interest-
ing and remarkable story In 1875 I arrived in
Calcutta. About three months after that time,
one afternoon in the Great Eastern Hotel, I was
prostrated with a sudden attack of illness. I did
not know what was the matter, but a gentleman
present said, ‘ It’s your liver.” I was conveyed
te Scott Thomas’s to see Dr. Ferris, but he was
out. I was then taken home in a “ polkee,” and
a medical man called, who said I had congestion
of the liver. I was very ill for the following ten
days. Between 1875 and 1881 I had, in Calcutta,
Madras, Bombay, Rangoon, Hong Kong and
•hanghai, about twenty of these terrible attacks.
In 1881, when in Shanghai being very ill, I deter-
mined to go to Japan. Kn route I met Captain
Connor, of the “Geukai Maru,” Japanese
Steamship Company, and be at once accosted
me with, “Good , man, what is the
matter with you?” I replied, “Liver and
kidneys.” “You look terribly ill. Have
you ever tried so-and-so?”—naming a pro-
prietary medicine. “No,” with a forced smile.
He then told me how he had suffered from conges-
tion of the kidneys and liver, that he was so bad
that he lost four stone in weight, resolved to give
up his command, and had almost seriously con-
templated suicide, when casually an American
passenger told him of the wonderful results
achieved by the use of Warner's safe cure. “Any
port in a storm,” said the gallant skipper, and as
soon as possible began its use. In a week he got
great relief, and two months after—at the time he
told me this—he had made up his lost flesh, with
a bit over, and was the personification of health
and strength. He concluded his narrative with:
“ God bless the day I took Warner’s safe cure!
You try it, Frank.” I did. and before I had
finished the first bottle the pain under my right
shoulder was much easier, the acid eeuctations
ceased, and my stomach began to do its work
properly. I continued to improve, and when I
had taken fifteen b rttles I found myself a new
man, with a sound, hear y appetite, thorough
enjoyment of the society of my friends, zest for
business, full and true appreciation of amusement,
and a calm pleasure in life, unspeakable. To all
these things I had been a stranger for six loDg
years. Would I not indeed be ungrateful did I
not earnestly and conscientious’y urge upon all
suffering from internal mutiny to at once put it
down and for ever, by the use of that peacefal
power I have mentioned, which not only heals
existing evils, but permanently eradicates bad
blood—the poVnt factor in all revolts.—Frank


CORRESPONDENCE
IH£ Bulletin will return all unsuitable MBB. when the
aidreßa is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the presentation or transmission of suoh
MSP.
“ Annam ” : The Sydney D.T. didn’t call him
Mr. Nicholas Minister when last it referred to his doings....
" E.M.M.” : The theory that, purchase having been abolished,
any worthy private can raise himself from the ranks of the
British Army to a commission, is a pleasant but baseless
fiction “R.P.” (Casino): la that far away region where
the song of the jackass floats on the gentle zephyr, you seem
to be unable to raise anything brighter than a woman calling
a policeman bad names “ Z." (Brisbane): Exactly, we
alwavs thought so, dontcherknow “Turfite" (Sydney):
Good, but overlong. Have boiled ..." B.N.Z ” : Bit then
a directorship of the Civil Service Co-operative Stores is not a
“municipal] office,” and therefore doesn't come within the
scope of the regu’ation. We grant, however, that subttan.
tially the same principle is inv lved “ No As3ass n ” : We
have never said so But we do say that we'd think very
little of the man who, his brother or sister having been
dragged over the snow to Siberia, and thrust down a mine
by the Czar, would not make an opportunity to let daylight
into that cowardly murde er. We honor the memory of
Sophia Perovskaii far above that of any saint in
the calendar or of any woman who ever sat on
a throne in European history “J. Lane": The
Tories must be pretty well licked if they have to
place their women in the van of the electioneering
campaign —“ Jackarandah ” (Ulmarra): For U 33 at Christ-
mas, probably “ Nardoo" : Why not have sent clipping?
....“C. Sambourne": The new N.S W. cloture rules may
enable Parkes to further his own ends for the time being,
but by-and-bye they will be equally powerful instruments in
the hands of men actuated by a desire to pass progressive
measures. Within two years we shall see Parkes and Co.
properly scourged with their own lash “ T. C. Hoge”.
Please call on editor....“ K.G.” (Melb.): “The Vag.” is a
friend, not an enemy, of ours. He has some small right to
be “ conceited." “ P.P.” : He has been a prison-doctor for
ever so many yearj With a powerful microscope he is
utterly unable to see that a man has lost both legs and one
arm f'om the shoulder “ Courier" : B it Douglas did yell
for the Australian Republic all the same. In vino veritas is
a good proverb. He probably apologised, not for his senti -
meat but for the “injudiciousness" of its expression....
" H.S " : They can make you pay if you continue to receive
it. Your plan is to decl ne to accept it from the postman...
“ Jos " (Cloncuny): Gilbertian par. taken from Bulletin.
“W.JD.": Your fist is a terrible handicap for a man to
groan under. You have evidently b?en taught calitrrapTiy
by a gentlemanly but consumptive mosquito. However,
we’ll try to worry through “ Hunker D." : What we eaid
is quite true. We don't ask you or anybody else to buy
The Bulletin. When we 10-e the power of compelling
people to buy it, we shall be ready to die. The fittest sur-
vives, dear sir, so you're not lo ig for this w0r1d....
“ Emmanuel": Old as Adam “ M.M.": If you do you’ll
pay him interest at the rate of just about Waxman per cent.
....“ Wilcannia Correspondent ” (no visible signature): We
a r e in receipt of a jerky paragraph about a horse, a fi-h, a
butcher’s boy, a du ie, a gray mare in a fowl-house, and a lot
ol other things “ H R.H.’’ (M*lb ): Will re id “ H.C. :
Pleiße call *’ U qus Inopitus ’ : Thanks —" To n Tit":
If you prefer the pruriency an 1 disgusting detail of Zola and
Ouida to the frank coarseness of Fielding and Smollett—hue
only to their age—we are sorry for you Perhaps, though,
you consider the innuendo of Mrs. Campbell-Praed or Rhoda
Broughton superior to the occasional ou f spoken vigour of
Shakesp»are “Amalgamated Sheare- ”: Tha ks “ In-
goldsby Tasmaniensis Why d > ynu send us a rhyming
treatise on geography and call it a “pome?" “Frank
Tyron": You seem to hare mixed things a bit. Professor
Wallace is the apostle of lend nationalisation ; Henry George
in “ Social Problems ” goes no farther than a proposal to tax
freehold land within a stone’s throw of its ground-rent value
but more an0n...." Carnival of Fiction”: Will examine ..
“ S. Laurie’ (B ilmain) : Pretty rough and pretty good;
thanks “JF. ’ (Queaobeyan): Thanks....” W. 8.” (Leich-
hardt): Anon “R M C G.” (Walgett) : Thank you very
much; will attend “Tobacco-leaf": All in time
'Seymour": Received...." Caarles T W. iM." (Nelson,
N.Z ) : Hardiy suited ...“No.no": Thanks “ R. W.
Millet" (Brisbane): Will 1 >ok into it “ N.11.0'D.”: If
your verses kept the level of your aspirations we’d
publish them in a special edition of The Bulletin
“Tom Tit”: Your morals savour of the Particular Bap-
tists “Svan Vale": The Queen's name is Wettin. The
Guefs or Guelphs were a distingu ; shed family which had at
first it 3 seat in Italy, from which in the 11th century it was
transferred to Germany, where it became the ruling race in
several provinces. The family is still continued in the two
lines of the House of Bruns vick—the rcy 1 in England, and
the ducal in Germany—and L connected by marriage with
most of the ruling rices in Europe. The memory of this
ancient name was revived by the institution of the Roy i
Ouelphic Order of Hanover. The wars of the Guelph and
the Ghibelline—the Biinca and Nera—parties are i istorical.
Dante was expelled from Florence on account of his partisan-
ship with the Bianca or Guelph faction P S —We steal all
this from an Eacyclopse .ia.. “CRB.”: Held for con.
sideratijn...." Au Kevoir " : To hand Hope shortly to
print yoHr appeal to the Press “C.W.R.": Thanks....
“W.8.M.": Fluent, b<t insufficiently condensed “R.A.”:
Wili consider for Jubilee number “JL.” (Launceston):
Received “W.JE.W.": Received [Many communica-
tions unavoidably held over.
That Melbourne railway smash is exercis-
ing a marked influ*ncB on Victorian character.
Love of outdoor exertion tempts me* with good
prospects to walk into town instead of travelling
by the nasty, stuffy train. Score* of wealthy old
gentlemen, who, for i ear* were adamant to their
wives’ appeal* far a buggy, have capitulated, and
find that a brisk dlive home gives cne an appetite
for dinner. The ca-eful but still »truggling por-
tion of the community has suddenly discovered
that a ride on the dummy of a tram, or the box-
eeat of a ’bus. does you more good- don't you
think so J The athletic spirit is so general that
when a train happen* to pull up between stations
half it* human freight want* to get out and see if
it can trot a mile inside ef five Except
among reckless and impecunious Victorians, whe
don't study their health, and dread rent-day
more than death itself, there is a growing dislike
for the poisonous atmosphere of a crowded smok-
ing carriage. These remarks are just introductory
to a bare official statement. The Melbourne and
suburban railway passenger traffic, on Queen 8
Birthday, showed a fellirg-off of fifty per cent,
from last year.
A NEW DISCOVERY
Hoffman’s Eucalyptol (mixture and injection) positively
cures all urinal and kidney complaints and discharges,
inflammation, grave', lumbaro (p.ma m the back), sc.
Purely vegetable, contains no balsam (paia) or sandal wood
All principal druggists and storekeepers. Price 2s. 6i. sue
Ss. 6d. lake no substitute.
BRIEF MENTION.
Bad—The Times.
The cloture—Lockjaw.
Haynes, M.P.—for Hell End.
Worth her weight in gold—Yic.
Foster was no judge—of Parkes.
A title of real distinction—Mister.
Lost in London—Colonial Democrats.
A mark of contempt—A titled colonial.
The Original Crimes Act—“ The UnioD.”
We keep on building churches. Who will
build a preacher ?
This is no season for “ profound loyalty”
in Sydney. The mud around is too deep to grovel
in.
A bagman who blew his brains out in
Ballarat first carefully removed his dentiit-made
masticators No gnashing of teeth for him.
Adith o'Go iman, the Escaped Nun, ia
supported by the Christian Colonist. She brings
pieces of earth (half bricks) lo men of good will.
Charters Towers (Q.) public-house bars
are so cevered with prohibition-notices against
drunks that they look like petty sessions offlct s.
The Goe-Carr Gold-mining Company has
been registered A company with anamilike
that must be hunting for treasures in Heaven, we
guess.
The Victorian Diamond Drill Office ad-
vertises for tenders for “ putting down bores.”
This has no doubt something to do with the
J übilee
We are glad to find that the hon. member
was not more seriously hurt by the rocket on
Queen’s Birthday. How fortunate that the missile
merely collided with his impenetrable cheek 1
At Auckland, N.Z., a young man has paid
the Rev. Dowie, Evangelist and faith-healer, to
do a miraculous cure on his crippled mother-in-
law. A fool and his mother in-law are not soon
parted.
A “loyal” alderman is one who spends
the ratepayers’ money to secure a handle to his
name. A “ disloyal” one is hi who believes that
rates are paid for making streets and sowers, not
C.M.G.’s.
At Bathurst, N.S. W , some one entered
the R.C. Presbytery in the silent watches of the
night, and slithered with a gold watch which he
took from under a sleeping priest’s pillow. The
burglar will probably sell the watch and give it to
the poor.
Sydney is importing a mummy only 3000
years old. It was originally designed to take the
chair at Parkes’ Old Politicians’ Re-Uni in.
From the Daily Parson :
\V ANTED, smart buggy Boy, at once. Apply Port Jack-
son Iron Works, Liver pool-street.
Oh, how could he be “ smart”—the wretched elf 1
He’d want to stand around and scratch himself!
Theatre royal.
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrovr.
Lessee, Mr, Sam Lazar.
EVERY EVEN IKG at 8 o'clock.
LITTLE JACK SsKPPARD
LITTLE JACK SHEPPARD
LITTLE JACK SHEPPARD
Prices, ss. 3s. and Is.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s Ho te\
EW OPERA HOUSI
Under the Management of Mr. B. N. Jones.
llth WEEK 11th
of
GRATTAN RIGGS’ SEASON.
LAST 2 NIG ATS
CURRENT COIN, or SNARED.
By Arrangement with Mr. CHA3. M'MAHON.
miTKRION THEATRE.
Sole Prop ietor Mr. John Solomon.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING.
LAST NIGHT BUT TWO.
MISS CARRIE SWAIN
MISS CARRIE SWAIN,
the Gifted
ACTRESS, VOCALIST, and DANSEU3E,
will again demonstrate that the New York Herald
was right when it declared she is
••THE ONLY ONE.”
THE ONLY TOPSY I UNCLE TOM’S
THE ONLY TOPSY / CABIN.
Admission —ss_., 3s , 25., Is
Box plan at Nicholson’s.
MONTY BROWN,
Business Manager.
Alhambra music hall
George-street, Haymarket.
Praprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp.
Minstrel Shows come and go, but we go on
for ever.
OUR THIRD YEAR. OUR THIRO YEAR.
THE BEAUTIES IN THE AIR.
OUR UNBROKEN SUCCESS.
THE GREATEST SUCCESS in this
HEMISPHERE.
THE MOORE and BURGESS SHOW of Australia.
CROWNING THE MIGHTIEST SUCCESS
of
ALL HISTORY.
POPULAR PRICES:
Orchestra Chairs, 2s ; Stalls, Is; Balcony, 6d.
Grand Sacred and Classical Concert every
SUNDAY EVENING, at 7.30.
Department of Publlo Works,
Sydney, May 31, 1887.
BARB’S” GRAND CONSULTATION on the
JUBILEE HANDICAP, run May -21st,
1887. 6000 members, each 10s. First horse, £1000;
2nd, £300; 3rd. £2OO. Starters, £200; Non-starters,
£3OO, divided amongst them. Cash Awards —
5 at £5O, 10 at £25. 20 at £lO, 20 at £5. 80 at
£2 10s. each. Early application is requested, at d
please register letters to ensure safe delivery, and
enclose two stamped addressed envelopes for
reply and result. “ BARB,” care of T. G Green,
Guildhall Hotel, Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
Melborne Cup. 1887. now open, 20 000 subscribers
each 20s. First hor,-e £lO,OOO.
Tenders for public works ana
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are Invited for the following PL BLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may he in attendance when the Ten
ders are opened, and the name of the successfu
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly oomplied with
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
fs
JOHN SUTHERLAND.
QYDSBY EXHIBITION BUILDING.
THE COLUMBIA ELITE
ROLLER SKATING RINK.
Open Afternoon and Eveoirg to the Ladies,
Gentlemen, and Young People of Sydney as afirst-
class POPULAR AMUSEMENT, where good
order and decorum are rigidly enforced,
The largest Amusement Palace in the world de-
voted exclusively to SKATING.
2000 Pairs of the Finest American Skates, and an
acre of the most beautiful skating surface,
are at the disposal of lovers of this
FASCINATING AwEdICAN SPORT.
Mr. H. J. WALLACE, the Premier R oiler Skater
of America, has been engaged, and will appear
every evening in a graceful and elegant perform-
ance of Artistic Skating.
ADMISSION—ONE SHILLING.
A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLD'S ATHLETIC HALL,
LARRY F LEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something g©od on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, if you miss Foley’s you
HAVE NOT SEEN THE CITY.
Royal polytechnic, 490 gkorge-st.
Open Daily from 10 a.m. till 10 p.m.
Just added, and now on view, a Monster ALLI-
GATOR, 15fc in length, and weighing 18001bs. To
be s ea ALIVE and swimming about in a Mam-
moth Tank. We are also showing the GALATEA
MYSTERY, or the Living Bust. .Also the Great
Mechanical Model of the BULLI COAL MINES,
showing the miners at work, &c. Engraving on
Glass by F. P. Web\ Electrical and Mechanical
Models of all kinds, Curios, &c. Also just added,
the Freaks of Nature—a SNAKE, TURTLE, and
a CAT with Eight Legs.
Admission to the whole of the Exhibition, Is
Children, 6d.
£jEMENT, “LIGHTHOUSE BRAND,”
Manufactured by the
LONDON PORTLAND CEMENT COMPANY,
LIMITED,
Successors to the original Firms of
J. G. GOATLING and Co ,and GOST LING and Co..
LIMITED.
And the SOLE PROPRIETORS
Of Their “ Marks,”
D F. WATSON, 51 Chancery lane, Melbourne
Sole Agent.
FREE
P RE SC RIPTIONB are to
be found in the “LIGHT AND
LIFE,” for the speedy cure of Nervous De-
bility, Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this
book will be sent free, sealed. Address—
S. WARD & CO.
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
S. F. PRIDDY & CO.
Having purchased Bankrupt Stock of
AT
ONE THIRD OF USUAL COST,
are now retailing them
BELOW ENGLISH COST.
Special Lines :
English Zephyr Felts, at 7/6
usually 9/- to 12/6
Do, Do. Do. at 5/6
Usually 7/6 to 9/-
At our two Establishments,
4SB GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Lassetter’s,
AND
I 662 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL.
CUT THIS OUT
and keep it for reference, and
REMEMBER
that the Only Address of the
lUSliil IfllTal
DIRECT SUPPLY
AISGGIITI3N
is
674 George Street, 674
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
Eight doors from Goulburn-streef,
Where you can see the
Largest, Finest, and most Superb Assortment of
all kinds of Musical Instrument* and Fittings
ever seen in the Southern Hemisphere,
From a JEW’S HARP to a CHURCH ORGAN,
Direct from the European manufacturers to
the Australian consumer.
Sole Agents in Australia for
SIGNOR ZAMPANANI’S
Celebrated Roman Violin Strings,
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/6,
5/- and 5/6 per set.
Also, every description of Strings for the Viola,
Cello, Double Bass, Banjo Guitar, Earp Zither,
Mandoline, iEolian Earp, &c., &c.
10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality: Tyrolese Violin, with ca c e, bow, and
instruction book, 35/-.
~ Italian Violin, with case (lock and key)
Bow, Tutor, and extra set of
strings, £2 10s.
~ French Violin, with extra finished
oase, full mounted how, Tutor,
2 extra set of strings and fittings,
£4 10s.
4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-,
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Speciality : Steel noted Rosewood Concertina
in box with key 35/-
, Splendid Organ-toned Concertina,
in box w i h key... ... ...21/-
ACCORDEONS, at 7/6, 10/6, 12/6. 15/-, 17/6, 21/-,
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, to £6.
Speciality : Miniature Accordeon, double bellows,
strong tone, 21/-
~ Ditto, oak wood, patent steel notes,
42/-
~ The “Jubilee" Accordeon, patent
broad reeds, in wood box, complete,
35/.
BANJOS—S/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/6, 15/, up to £l2 12s.
FLUTES—I/6, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 10/, up to £lO
CORNETS—4O/, 45/, 50/, up to £l2 12s.
Brass and Dium and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT.
All kinds of Instruments skilfully repaired
at moderate charges.
All instruments carefully packed and forwarded
to any part of the colonies.
Orders promptly attended to.
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
674 GEORGE STREET,
t SYDNEY.


London Town Talk.
FROM THEIR LONDON' CORRESPONDENT (VIDE
MELBOURNE ARGUS, MAY 13, 1887).
The Waterbury Watch Company seems deter-
mined to make the Oxford and Cambridge bo t
race a “time bargain.” The enterprising pro-
prietors have, they inform us, “ chartered all the
available steamers of the Thames steamboat
Company,” to which they have cordially invited,
for the purpose of viewing the spectacle, erery mau
and woman and child who can '-xhibit a Waterbury
watch instead of the usual ticket at the gangway.
A special steamer will be employed for ladies and
children, and ladies accompanied by gentlemen,
but they must all have Waterbury Watches.
Apprehensive, however, that this may include the
entire population of London, the proprietors state
that the boats will leave early enough to admit of
the disapointed ones going by rail. They cannot,
at all events, pretend that they are not acquainted
with the time of day. All persons accepting this
disinterested invitation “thereby pledge them-
selves to behave decently and in order. Anyone
breaking this pledge (a word which is very
appropriate, by the way, to watch-owners) will be
immedia*ely put ashore or ‘chucked’ ovetboard
by the police on duty.” This is certainly the most
comical as well as ingenious advertisement that
ever was penned. One thousand Waterbury
balloons, with coupons attached to them, will be
released during the race, and the coupons will be
exchanged for watches at any of the London depots.
I congratulate the company on its enterprise, and
suggest a motto for the mantelpiece of its board-
room—“ A violet by a mossy stone, half-hidden
from the eye.” Their advertisement is an admir-
able one, though to persons who are nervous on
the river the name of the society—Waterbury—
will not be reassureing.
We might add the Company has recently opened
branch offices at 9 William-street, Melbourne, and
56 Margaret-street, Sydney, to facilitate their
Australasian trade.
St. Jacobs Oil, —It Conquers Pain!
Every application gives
relief.
Every bottle contains a
cure.
Every bottle tested as to
quality.
Every genuine bottle
bears the firm’s sig-
nature.
Every home in Australia
knows its value.
Every spoken language
knows its name.
Every journal of the
land praises it.
Every household shelf
should have it.
Every testimonial
strictly true.
Every day increased
demands.
Every patient is amazed
and cured.
Every ache or pain sue*
cumbs.
Every druggist knows
its merits.
Every chemist finds it
perfect.
Can be obtained everywhere price Haif a-
Crown.
ILLIAM BEACH.
William Beach, the champion oarsman of the
world, recommends St. Jacobs oil strongly to
athletes in training, haying used it successfully
himself for the relief and cure of muscular pains.
Jno. Itolfe, Esq., champion bicyclist of Australia,
Sydney ‘St Jacobs oil is a very old friend, and
has enabled me to win many matches. I shall
never compete again without a bicycle and a
bottle of St. Jacobs oil.’
Says David Scott, Esq , the well-known Mel-
bourne cricketer :—“St. Jacobs oil cured him of
a painful injury to the knee, sustained at the
wickets, aod says it is the most cherished friend
of athletes generally.”
Sr. SCOTT’S
ELECTRIC CORSET.
'£h
LIFE
elegance
mstiiTY
These goads are sent out in a handsome box,
accompanied by a silver-plated compass, by w nick
the Blectro-Magnetic influence can be tested. If
you cannot get them in your town, we wil3 send
either kind to any port or railway station in New
South Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named with Is Gd. added ; or will mail direct to
any address upon receipt of stamp to cover full
postage. The prices are as follows :
No. 1 Corset
No. 3 Corset
No. 2 Garget
No. 5 Corset
KLECTRIC BELTS
For pains in the Loins, Lumbago, and weak backp,
nothing compares to the magic support of an
Electric Belt. Price 15s.
U&ineCl, Wibli UIIO ailUlillg ttUUDU, Lyiuiiei
beautiful Brush, post paid to any part of N.S.W.
or Queensland ; or request your nearest druggist
or fancy store to obtain one for you, and be sure
Dr. Scott’s name is on the box. Money returned
If not as represented.
Remittances should be made payable to PALL
MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION, 56 Margaret -
street, Sydney l P. 0., Box., 221
Seven-tenths of the dry portion of corn is
starch. The same proportion of a cornstalk is
starch.
Charley Montrose, the veteran Pressman,
at present editor of the Wangaratta (Vic ) Des-
patch, was lately at a small Milesianly-promoted
race-meeting at Wangaraita. As is usual at such
affairs “the bhoys,” after “liquoring,” considered
that the day's enjoyment could only be properly
wound up by the breaking of somebody’s skull.
After ten or eleven fights had been enjoyed by
the company the subject of athletics in all its
branches became the principal topic discussed.
Cnarley, in his usual perky tones, said : "I’ve a
good mind to start a fencing-class in Wangaratta. ’
This riled Timothy O’Brady, who couldn’t tolerate
being taught anything in the way of agriculture
after his “ thurrty year experience.” “Shure,”
An authentic parrot story. An old maiden
lady, pious as ancient maiden ladies uusually are,
the other day attended a sale of household goods
in Sydney. Her heart yearned for the family
parrot, an ugly but eloquent bird, which, like
everything else on the premises, was to pass
through the hands of the remorseless auctioneer ;
so she sidled up to him with “ cluck, click,
Pretty Polly, Pretty Polly !” She was removed
in a dead faint when the unsympathetic not to
say brutal bird exclaimed : “ Get out, you d
old hag!” It has since been ascertained that the
parrot's owner had been living in the same house
with his mother-in-law.
An eminent English “ swell,” renowned
alike for the suavity of his manners and the
“s ;< aggerness ” of his appearance on the block,
0 that' m^r l should !
PJ b I tea r\.— '
0. tla'F'm 3 n iV&i// d/
' Uf\e. loy ** cL—
-0 !] col// J f ~—
SHAKESPEARE AND COLONIAL BEER.
exclaimed Tim, “an’ its dam little you know
about fencin'.” And then uprose the great Mont-
rose in the middle of the room : “ Damn you,
sir—do you know that I was for nine years in the
British Army ! ” Timothy : “I don’t care whether
you were nineteen yea-3 in the British Army. I
can tell by the look of yer that ye never did much
terming. Cive just finished a mile and a half of
it.” Montrose; “ You infernal scoundrel, I'll
punch your head ! ” Timothy (with many adjec-
tives): “Come outside, ye spalpeen!” Coats
were thrown off, and they were about to begin the
slaughter, when some cool outsider stepped be-
tween them with : “ Gentlemen, there is evidently
a misapprehension between you Mr. Montrose
no doubt means fencing with the fails, while you
(addressing Tim) mean fencing—erecting posts and
rails.” Tim said: “ Phure and of course,” while
Charley said : “ You are too ignorant to talk to,
sir.” Tim has stopped subscribing to the journal
over which Charley presides, and glories to tell
his friends how he took down the “ blathering im-
poster who tried to talk to him about fencing.”
Caarley, on the other hand, states that the only
specimen of a gorilla uncaged in Australia resides
in the vicinity of Wangaratta.
Poor) for Consumptives. Scott’s Emuision of Pure
Cod Liver Om with Hypophosphites of Lime And
Soda, is a most wondeiful food for the Consumptive. It
not only gives strength and increases, the flesh, but heals the
irritation of the th-oit and lungs. It is very palatable;
children take it like milk, and in all wasting diseases
ooth for adults and children it is a marvellous food and
medicine
Large and small bottles at all chemists.'
Tattersall’s Monster Consultation, Win6er Stakes, run
June 4, and the Jubilee Handicap, run June 21; each
2000 subs., 295. now open and filling rapidly. Apply
Tattersail. care G. Adams, Pitt-street. :i
One of the best managed and cleanest hotels in Sydney is
the Great Northern, corner Charlotte Place and George-
sfcreet. Having been thoroughly renovated, Travellers will
find it the cosiest place in Sydney. The shilling luncheoa
thero is immense.*
NOTIOK !—Beware of young Wine. Drink only Hookings
high class selertef old vintages, for invalids 43 Pitt-
strect. *
hag condescended to shed the refulgence of his
gaze on Sydney’s “beautiful harbour,” provided
he finds the local tailors at all endurable. But his
recent experience of one prominent Sydney
sartorialist has been unfortunate. The colonial
snip doesn’t like trouble, and refused to bestow
upo a a rare and radiant masher's tweed exterior
that attention with which one meets at Poole’s.
A pair of riding-breeches, about the fit of which
our stylish friend was rather particular, com-
pletely broke up the compiler of “ block ” fixtures
and he refused to be further bothered. “ The
foreman was frightened—worried, you know, and
really, after all,” &c. “Oh! if that’s the position
of affairs, I’ll at once give you a clieque, and go
elsewhere.” So the Englishman gave the cheque.
The tailor thought he had spoilt a good thing, and
made an effort to be oleaginously civil. “His
grounds atjthe were now looking delightful—
perhaps, if Mr. Blank Dash happened to be in the
neighbourhood, he would do him the pleasure of
paying him a visit —the air lovely—managed, the
other day to secure some wine imported in the
reign of Governor Macquarie—might be persuaded
to take dinner.” “Thank you,” responded the
magnificent, severely and freezingly; “ I came
here to get clothes, not to be fed"
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
READ, AND READ CAREFULLY.
The public are cautioned against those persons
who will persist in attempting to palm off their
spurious imitations of Lager Beer as the Anheuser
Busch Celebrated Brand St. Louis Lager Beer.
The public are requested to observe particularly
by the letter A with an Eagle standing upon a
shield looking through the letter A, and the name
of Anheuser on every cork. See the Caution
Label on the Bottle. Impostors are hereby
warned that every imitation of the label will
be dealt with according to law. The Anheuser
Busch famous St. Louis I*tger Beer can be had of
any of the wine and spirit merchants throng" out
Australia.*
Balsam of Virginian Prunes a most effe tual remedy
for the Coughs, Colds, Croup, Asthma, Inlluensu, Hoarseness
Bronchitis, Shortnessof Breath, &c. Rignev, late Mitchell,
King-street,*
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
'!
-
SPLENDID STOCK OF WINTER GOODS.
Garment* to Order at Moderate Price*.
OF THE SIGHTS
nis?
QNE
A casual glance at 608 Georgy 8^® e an( j
but little idea of the Series ct iai = d stores ad-
stocked Showrooms and Factorie > ds pßtv
: joining ihe main Entrance to A
joining
mium Emporium.
It was only last Saturday that a'
it, was wuj Tlll .,„ p vT JIW
and popular member of the PR . .j. all d
paid the Central Emporium a
were his words :
M a nd
“Web, LAWLER, I had w the
had many others, that you were
Manufacture of Bedding and tnie nts, a ®
knew you were aufait in those P‘ suPP'
that your name was identified w T 0 0
of Bedsteads and Chairs ; but
surprise to find so extensive, y our ®id ( _
tive-looking an establishment pe(
Why here are Carpets and Lmo . d ’ iiai
by the hundred, Bedding and
and JJinme v
furni'
Bedroom suites, Drawing l_. anu
ture, Boots and Shoes, Ironmong J jyncls, l
ware, Glass and China, Drapery
eery, Hats, Caps, and Ties. \vhole
from your narrow frontage
seems marvellous.” mo9 t 0$
And marvellous the Eetablisbnieii tb0 3e F
is, not only in the surprise it occ ~iHtudi» ouS i?w:
walk through its rooms and “ Client Q
sages ; hut in tiie stock— the e. 0 f gw
the high-class style ; the superio at tb®
that none ever believed could bo yje lsfc p
TRAORDINARY LOW PRICES that „ lint TT T® ~X,
the 6th story and right thßOU^ ebß o^ u .
IMMENSE SHOWROOMS DOBB EVER h a ®,s
Boasting will not sustain _Gi 0
a*d more engaged in connection
CENTRAL EMPORIUM. nf) n G<)o^
NO! NO! NO! VALUE AND
ALONE WILL DO THAI. And [qbiUM' -
has PURCHASED AT THE BMP h e»L e
their name is legion-let any o served
chassd say they have been bad Or j ol .
not reoeiveil most excellent VA
MONEY, and the account will be ® ]t
refunded Now a word or Wb®
can be both good and cheap Al B gsT 0
is supposed, and with truth too, ougb® L jjf
cannot be sold cheap ; hut the coR® 1 u o )d
member that that applies to g t and
ThoBe w ho imp —tn .
must have
THIS MARKET.
goods for the trade must fr0 D)
fit. The trade who ouy tt
COLONIAL WAREHOUSEMEN ® U nuro ba eer AjO" 1
their profit, and the
poor pilgarlic” who, in ’
i * hag toP*% frofli
in the o hd, h gfld °L \f
50 per cent, upon landing P nc^’ r A plft
ou per cent, upon lauuiu# - » jjii
H per cent, to 15 per cent. as ~ t trlNG
PORTING and MANUFACTUH
LISHMBNT like LAWLER »• 60( , ial _
CHEAP GOODS are too often J ik* fi „d » w
eftc taint of the auction ro0 “ bS . ’th«
FAVOUR with GENERAL PURCB / lie ith el ‘ t J,oS«
know Ihe auctioneers cannot. I°> ’ or el-°
tianufaclurers in the old conn , . j#
“worthies” would not eontm' y eli i
signinent upon cons gnment yeai g ta fif » gc
the auction rooms of the colon® • . pn c ’ g p
tion is always dear, however lo' v " d
cause it has been slopped 1 j.O"’
SPECIALLY for a PRECARIOUS
AUCTION TRADE.
AND
-r i-»
But best goods CAN BE SOLD t)C e.ai l3o ~0
BE iiOLD CHEAP at LAWLER® rfjlßlß Jliug
LER’S buyers have the money gjr
and no expense is spaied upon on* i°>?;
expenses from skat to seat or
and American and Continent- ao,hsv
TWO. mSVTDWH TMPORTING lliß „a a.rOU,
ING CENTRES.
U FAC
NTRES. IMPOKIINW “ n /)nS 00,
TURING HERE, ALL GOOP
CLASS and PRICES EXCEED^ 0
If you want to lay out £3O i
and FURNITURE you will 0
purchasing at the GREAT a*
RIU.W. If you purpose FURNI®B. ;n \Wt
of £6O you will save £l5. n fb eI !
NISHING of a first-class B ESID r „pND B ® « i°i
you intend an outlay of a FE\ -ppw
WITHOUT DOUBT OF ANY Qg<
will save £100; because
suites at LAWLER’S that you W p
FOR ALL OVER TIIE CITY. AND » £1 .jp
NINE ITEMS YOU WILL HAVE SAV p 0 V til®
From March, 1886, to March, du r "’ s >^
sold 22,960 Bedsteads and Cots. ()1| 'gR a
same 12 months lawlkb’s ’l'° bN g
SI BE AND FROM HIS WAREHOUSES
20,104 j Austrian and A®
20,104 V Chairs, Sett o
20,104 J anclßockc .- g
Facts are chiels that jvu .
And danrna be dispute!. c V
Thus wrote the illstarred but P® 1
Figures are the best assurance peoi®- 1 ,
ding and Bedstuffs would take a p t'
total up, and THE figures WO -' ft y tlj® $0
None, however envious, will k a
tation and Esteem in which 01
DING and UPHOLSTERING ' beS , fl Bi
held. £3OOO in Tapestries, p
Damasks, Fancy haw-soating ‘ j P lll ,
covering Drawing, Library, c
suites. Tftbl 09 ’t)t‘ rJ
£20,000 worth of c& ,)t
stands, Overmantles and H crU '
Whatnots, &c. £7OOO in BodrO °
IMMENSE STOCK. f A
RARE 0
WONDERFUL AND ASTONI®
£9OBO in Carpets, Floorcloths, aa $0?
This is an entirely NEW ® T^ hse rV ed '
is MODERN. Style carefully «b
c 0 * V
fOP;
Then pass along until you t v'U' j, *%i
and SHOES, and your astonish® „
to a pitch you had never p j f e
Prices! Judge quality!
finish ! Buy or not as y°h fee aP -.yib* J
as you get to the IRONMON E b fll . V'
ENWARE, GLASS and CHINA p J yo u f „»)
—Departments tlmt will eng" l *, ppb nl
least—be sure you STOP , c pot®
DRAPERY COUNTERS upe» g
your way out, so that you » lft y gflo
inspect BL ANKETS,
FLANNELS? BED AND rrA f A
CURTAINS, COVERS C g 0 e
There is no likelihood of b> r
ING department—ready made tt ,. a ot Op P
—without your attention being _ . jao tu J
and Caps, and Men’s Mercery 'a
side of the same (ground) fi°° *
Time spent in L VWLER’S i 0 t 0 lo yO®
if you can only spare ti® flt
factories and see the 8»
have seen an interesting i
tralian sigh* - ,
LAWLER’
;’S, SYDNEY
ofi
0
jy


ta'is.r this
Please
VI LL SELL TO YOU 10,000
Sduringthis season
rpjj U ° H rates
T WILL ECLIPSE ALL
P®Vlous efforts.
A Vls it requested.
Or DKRn BROTHERS.
211, Pitt-street.
medicine.
PILLS
df
sdf
sd
fs
df
sd
fs
df
;^nt
thou
Are admitted by thou-
sands to he worth a
«umea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
gueh as wind and pain
P 1 stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
ruiness and swelling
etter meals, dizziness
drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
trtghtful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &c. The first
This i K « s ?. wiu give relief in
of ct,lot l> tor they have
/one w s "«erer is
to tnr"‘n„“ 8 i: 8 ' -Every sufferer is
e4d°» X 0f thcsc Pills, and
aek ? n e be
Wie dged to be
o»:/ e d ( > les «f at GUinea a box.
'^***sS£* , % m * nre invaluable
rCl fl - «>ns, ani\"- ff aU humours
m l ' l /? aic ine t al ° should h , about ell that if
he found b ® them. Then
m tr ‘S e /lf! g «nyobstrn^™ l BEECHAM ’ £
each ir a Wfi^n/7.^ 1011 or irregularity
tI .V l to they will l dlng to the direction!
Ne>A he° t h. reSt ° re fcmales oi
imrvn a , • and al
T“ and f
worx wonders upon the
e h' l ™"" machine. They
hiose • Se S wiii e iiver «! lm P a
- 6?5r6 ” -
pl ® »» ® ne . r £y of the huma
~ Bes °f socdp+ mitted by thousand
of «nr.w eci D y tJ kousi
the ue r v' ety; and one of -
ihe ■
COUGH PILXf
S hmnSs g o? e n al ’ Asthma < Dif
(if t v ( i Hu r i i the Pneath, Tightne
Pn^vr,, a i>ov6 i lecl ; andu/ feezing, &c , the:
a?* o f,Vt tho oQl Piaints , ly c ! ne iohouring undi
A s fe 4 only try Oiie Be
and r^ tlc and e? fc ever ofiere d to tl
V tl >in* oV6^ th^ ppree sion C oT S ti mp nu e Cou ? h
Wv? B^hir.v,ntse nseof tlle hhest. The
f&ed t' Slt nos°/ :n iShtly den? PreSBlon an( i difficult
«>h the la n Sta nt rei 17 Ve of res
CC tnv s ® r ons7 atove dirtlol and comf ort to thof
thl f 8d > wb en nej
tiji B a triy compia®*?" y P ers^ n trouble
(' ? M st Viei e r,- 1 aints give Beecham
Cou f?h will
iSS.
0, n VU KHWiII :
~n.
in a short time
, re f 9nested to notice t'
.Helens,” are on
each box of the Pi
sol?’ ,
\cs°s Vela d B ?echam VfeIsale 1 sale and retail
N>ths VanVn hoZ’ Chemist, St. Heh
>ta«S *}\ IW. and 2s
thou* al , Js - lid. and 2s.
iir /tiS 0 s d Patent Medi(
S Striven with eaeh box.
tJSft j
PEMELL’S
TT TS T
' w i i .J-r-* ?
IoS s s „ , :y®te 8 . CmSr 81 ™' 0 ™' 1
l 0
QUALITY
S’ l rr£ Y good.
7
u,, dor th ~ 10 nu >»< rous
U . J '>' //, name
J r 1(1 Of fh , ' " an,G
>\ M*„ . • 1-ON DON
“\v, TU E
}&■
Ulto I» *' u -'UON
•**e ■» 80 01 *“ Golden
r
[V\K lari? 0 is a y r ! d squatting hot*
Hs’°Ctv'ithr. '? 0 draw iug-roon
J&vSJSS°Xffi° n ut , extra charge
\N 2 Xa v Blt ion to v ? flre -uroof stair
XC'-fX Hu T ;? r hot e]s. First-cla,
X)Sal Ui te of ? 0r style - Klectrii
' ® r y eeins for families
Q. o' ' kargo banquetir
kv * nAN IKTj jS ,
ietor
MASON BROTHERS,
m
as
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINE*?, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
%nd general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
• **ORIN and CO.'S
Cognao.
.. T. GAYEN'S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS'
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
0. H. SMITH & SON,
Manufacturers and Importers
or
HATS and CAPS,
302 GEORGE STREET,
3 Doors South of Hunter-street.
p.O O M b
co-N 5 u
vi
V. ;
a
To Weak, Nervous Invalids, and others
seeking Health and Strength.
DR. RICHARDS,
DESIRES to publicly announce that he has
permanently established himself in Sydney,
and may in future be consulted at his rooms, No.
7 Spring Street, FREE OF CHARGE, by that
increasingly large class of sufferers whose nervous
complaints can only be competently dealt with by
an experienced specialist. I Cure every case un-
dertaken. When I say I cure. Ido not merely
stop them for a time and then have them return
again, I mean a radical cure. I have made those
ailments, which are the result of negligence, a
ufe-long study, and can safely warrant a cure
after personal consultation. Carelessness in many
cases has brought about a state of weakness that
has reduced the general system so much as to in-
duce almost every other disease, and the real
cause of this scarely ever being suspected, people
have been doctored for everything but the right
one. Notwithstanding the many valuable remedies
that medical scienoe has produced for the relief of
this class of patients, none of the ordinary modes
of treatment effect a cure. During my extensive
hospital and private practice in England, I have
discovered new and concentrated remedies, and
with the use of my extensive Galvanic Appliances,
am in a position to guarantee a cure in every case
undertaken. Consultation costs nothing, and I
will tell you at once whether your case is curable
or not.
DR. RICHARDS, M.R.0.5., England,
7 SPRING STREET (off Pitt-st., Bydney.
/CONSULT Dr. THOMAS for the best and
safest treatment of Nervous Debi'ity and
Skin Diseases. The Doctor has passed his degrees
at the Royal College of Physicians and the Royal
fioHege of Surgeons, England. Consulting
Rooms, 203 Klizabeth-street. Hours: 9 till 9
daily.
THE AUSTRALIAN
LOAN, DISCOUNT AND FINAN-
CIAL COMPANY,
Limited.
US
HEAD OFFICE =
CORNER OF MARKET AND YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
INCORPORATED, JUNE, 1886.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO STERLING.
RESERVE, £31,661 4s. STERLING.
THE AUSTRALIAN LOAN, DISCOUNT AND FINAN-
CIAL COMPANY, L'mited,
transact all usual Banking Business. Current Accounts
opened, Drafts issued, Bills Discounted, and Advance upcn
all kinds of Commercial Securities.
OVERDRAFTS GRANTED AGAINST DEPOSITS
OF DEEDS.
Deposits Received
' AND
Interest Allowed
At Call, 4 h per cent.
3 Months, 6 per cent.
6 Months, 7 per cent.
12 Months, 8 per cent.
WITH BONUS ADDITIONS TO DEPOSITS OF
SIX AND TWELVE MONTH'.
I Depositors can arrange to withdraw the whole or portion
of their deposits, without notice, and will be allowed current
interest for the period of de cosit.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTOR s *.
H. M'NAMARA,
SFORETARY.
GRAND HOTEL,
BUND ABET? Gh
Under New Management.
FINEST SAMPLE ROOM IN THE COLONY.
PLUNGE AND SHOWER BATHS.
Good Stabling, and Loo9e Boxes for Race Horses.
DRAWING-ROOM FOR LADIES.
Having engaged a first-class chef , I am enabled
to cater for the public in a first-class style.
ALF. P. THOMAS,
Proprietor.
Custom House Hotel,
BUNDABERG.
First-class Accommodation for Squatters, Com-
mercial Travellers, and others.
it®’ Private Suites for Families.
Plunge and Shower Bath. Billiards.
Buggy meets every steamer.
HARRY McCANN, Proprietor.
THKATRE ROYAL,
ROCKHAMPTON.
THE above is the only Licensed House in
Rockhampton for holding Theatrical or
other Entertainments, and can be engaged for
any term upon application to
CHARLES NASH,
Lessee.
T- SILBEEBEEG dz, CO.,
32 MARKET STREET, Corner of Clarence Street, Sydney.
IMPORTERS OF THE FAM®US SILBERRERG SEWING MACHINES, and the DURKOPP
WHITE MACHINES, the best and cheapest in the market.
Agents wanted throughout the colonies.
DOLPHQ
vVO 1
bS
frC'
I7CKEMT
* #9^
. s> Cs?<y Pv • *
ILLUSTRATION (In reduced alee) Tt JSI Order to be found In th*
" LARGE BOTTLES ” OF WOLFES SCHNAPPS
JJRADj&Y, NEWTON, ft LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and C’CONNELL STREETS
Full suites for dining room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY OHAIRP,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match.
SELF- ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR
Patented.
This chair adjusts itself to any pos tion, irom
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous ositions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. tt3T We can
now supply portable suspension Stands to enable
the Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with
Stand 30/-;. Without Stand 25/-.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB (only).
Packing in canvas, if required 23. 6d. extra
Drawing-room^ cites, Fashionably up.
holstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
CCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, See. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell and
Spring Streets.
MUM!
v
•ill!
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vary
oils sizes, fitted with Shelves
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid*
ing Trays, Stationery Draw
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, coipmo
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell and Spring
Streets.
- *
I!
a
Ji : MR»>
Drawing room cabi
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs,
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
FUBNITUBB WABBHOUSWmr,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O'Connell and Spring Streets.
sd
£• O ff PIANOFORTE,
dt/OO guaranteed
Bound, strong, and durable
Trlohord, full Compass
Celeßbe Pedal, brll ant
tone, In handsome case.
Free at rajl or wharves for
oash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
fsd
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS
in
GREAT VARIETY.
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB,
Spring & O’Connell Sts
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed*
rooms. New designs covered to order in
any material.
s
KLF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH, for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
H
BKDBTKADB, aU sines
Nlofcel-plated and Black
aad Brass. Great variety.
Bedding,—All descriptions at
lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and!
LAMB,
Importers,
o*ooooBll and Spring Street*.
fs
SPRING MATTRASBE9
Woven Wire, be*
make; also, Spiral Spring.
Price, from 14*. each.
RRADLXY, WKWTON and Mini
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.j
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from *3los,| Clothes Horses, from 10s. fld.t
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 80s.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, Mid LAMP,


Ringnose Wise!
“Mr. Bernhard Ringrose Wise has accepted the Attorney-Generalship in the Freetrade Administration of Sir Henry Park es.” —Daily Papers.


TEETH like pearls,
fully fragrant'brMtn* l ’ pe {? ect freedom from decay, a healthy action of the gums, and delight-
sod using daily reactl can best be obtained by discarding gritty tooth powders and acid washes
Rowlands
Odonto
thl'? I Vfod warninVori V ** 1 '* ;e .P 0w^er composed of the most recherchd ingredients of the Oriental
nleL ■ *■**, Prevents ane™ 6 “’ <>m an X gritty or deleterious ingredients ;it whitens and preserves
hiM/ n ? fragrance to “rrests decay, eradicates scurvy, strengthens the gums, and gives a
beneficial “reath, while its anti-septic and anti-scorbutic properties exercise a
nm, ‘5?, 11 possibl v S!!'!'*® 11 the teeth and gums, AU Dentists allow that neither washes or
“•gntty tooth LI? 8 efficacious for polishing the teeth and preventing decay as a pure and
--- ■ powde r: such ROWLANDS 1 ODONTO. has always proved itself.
No otherOdonto is genuine.
I&ir and golden-hffirH „ MACASSAR OIL is now sold in a golden colour f«r
p _ naired people and children.
art!?*' ar| d render., ’KALYDOR beautifies the complexion, eradicates all cutaneous
"rf'eles, of ll.*rs* rs *■,, s °ft, smootli and delicate. Ask anywhere for ROWLANDS*
’ ™ n harden, Lendon, and avoid spurious and pernicious Imitations.
an< * Agents— Elliott Bros., and E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
.never travel without it.
TJST EVEUEtUr I£OU!SE.
KIiSES'
ft
effectually destroys,
T- =-ALL NOXIOUS INSECT^
! LE *S FUES,BEETLES MOSQUITOES,
AND IS
JJ H E SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESS TO BIRDS!
animals
*
OP
dfcs
sold!
|l§^F‘ nt,ns !
PbVAU CHEMISTS
7WD STOREKEEPERS
WHOIESAIE
FELTON-GRIMWADE'W.C®
-MELBOURNE— .
WANTED IN EVEKY HOUSE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
Y LANCASTER,
CO A*
o A/
C W/5
Vs
ect
uiiiiiiillllllil
. 1
Imn >
NKJN
HOT
WATER
Htn
WAN
YLINDER
'-VI
TRDUc
BRDKEK
oc -POUCH
Rkduced pbics
LISTS FURNISHED ON APPLICATION.
65
G EOR(*e
STREET, WEST, near Railway Station.
FOR MANY YBARS
engaged in the
Leading i Workshops
of England,
Lately 5 years with
Hudson Bros,,
Manufacturer of
WROUGHT IRON
TANKS & CISTERNS,
of any qigp or shape,
for squatters, wool-
washers, and station-
owners.
Horse and Cattle
Troughs,
of every description,
wrought-iron pipes, s. s.
Pi funnels, ventilators,,?
&a, &c.
Estimates cheerfully given.
df
f-f
Lll
■H«3
[&ALI6YU
TOOW^MSTE
UfIROLLED fb/f /TSfit/IISEPTIC
/uJo CLEAftsifc PROPERTIES .
Pharmaceutical Chemist
4?* William ST r SY O /V ~ ’
fionri
“SiSS.
Sydney. |
Si ir GOnda Flour *
han? ra \ a » d Pol.
' tte lcZ“ AU made
pr 7 ce e a at Procurable,
, Dnt, * L B
SYDNBr -
*SJ"' S ™NES
' Evirt anfi aU
. B^noe.obl
kinds o
. c ! T R ',:" n i' ce i obtained i
ul wilif, R ' or the legal prt
n CHI« in “ ’ of bhtl
od Of x> v rott, t> ?? Part of t.v>o
oaseT t ooramea 1
Is, le A a ! P«
&anq
Haig sm womeias sale _
ami is jai®w b®ing tatrod®©®® i®i£© the
(Colonies.,
,lEwryStoi?®k.®®p©t 1 should s©&o supply
k§ (vw®sy vis® caother will tsppftalnlh
f ULs® itn
©EL* sfllß®B s S ROYAL FOO&) MIL if.'
TC/WTX&'N'- VTvrGLAWin)
sd
The only place where
pipes are satisfactorily
repaired.
SUPPORT Colonial Industry! Buy your Pipe
at S. ROSENTHAL, 1 Liarr.K Colmns
Stbekt, East (opposite Colonial Bank.
Manufacturer of real Meerschaum andjßriar
Pipes, wholesale and retail, f
The bank of new Zealand.
Svdnet Branches:
64 PITT-STREET. and 538 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital ... ... £1,000.000
Reserve fund 628,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITE® STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
defiling in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commer
cial and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application,
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
TIE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 1869).
Paid-up Capital,£3oo,ooo. Reserve Fund, £160,000
Directors
The Hem. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman,
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Gaird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.O.
C. RoHeston, Esq., G.M.C.
General Man actor;
F. A. A. WilflQn.
S*CR*TAKT
Hector Allen.
Branches : Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redtern. Goiford, Nyt
gas, Manly, Parfamatta, St. Leonard’!, Newoaitle an
BrMMneJ ’• n yrm
London Branchs: : 58 LeadenhaU-atreet.
London Bankers The National Proyinoial Bant ol
England.
4
*
A.A.QEBNEY & C°
13 HUNT£RTSTREiT,SYONEY.
SHIRT
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OFALLTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
l4j»
HMWIt ' ffT
s
TUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frame* re-
covered, and your
ParasolB re-lined and made equa
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bbthurst Street*
Parasol* made' ,to match oo*
tumei Benair* neatly exenutad
Commercial Hotel, Gympie, Queensland,
imwiSSm' M ■ win “““CT3 NIM “““
THE above is'.Tone of the oldest Family and
Squatting Hotels in the colony. Prices
reasonable. Sample Room.
Superior accommodation. Hot and Cold Baths.
Mrs. W. COMPIGNE, Proprietress.
CRI
Cl
6AK INC
P
%
WAUGH’S
OBTAINED A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
O, F
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
«uc
*KlN&r<>
ISTHE BEST INTHE WORLD!!
NONE OTHER BUT I
WAUGH’S
RECE IVEDTHE INTE R NATION AW
PRIZE MEDAL
Manufactured byJamesChanhon
Harbour S t Syonev
Sold by All Crocers and Storekeepers
RUSTON PROCTOR & CO.’S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
“ TRIUMPH ” THRASHING MACHINEa
Simon’s Roller System of Flour Milling,
Sole Agents >
E. C. ELLIOTT & CO.,
647 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
fsd
" 1 1 1 1 ' 111
ASTHMA.BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
ITUmA'.IMW
xmsmrn
5
_ PREPARED ON,pr 'BY .
ITHfIMfS..I.N6jUM(i
p
j
i
NORTHUMBERLAND HOTEL, Gympie.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
WINES AND SPIRITS OF THE CHOICEST
BRANDS.
J. F. E. STEWART, Proprietor.
WHAT IS YOUR HOBBY?
Most people have one of
some sort. If you don’t hap-
pen to have one. or if you
have been indulging in one
which returns but a poor sat.
lsfaotion for your outlay, get
rid of it as soon as possible.
Better be without than keep a
bad one ! If you have a taste
for Art: if you want a remu-
nerative hobby try Photo-
graphy.
Instruments and materials
are not the costly toys they
were.
Anyone can learn it; every
one can profit by it.|
A
y-
m
fi
Mite
I W
The cost of every requisite
for a beginner is so low, it will
surprise you..
Satisfy yourself by a visit
to our
WHOLESALE
PHOTOGRAPHIC
WAREHOUSE.
LICHTNER AND CO.,
24 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
Largest House for Photographic Supplies
in the Southern Hemisphere.
SEJ3ST3D FOR OUR NEW CATALOGUE.
Special Notice We hare now our new Enlarging Department in work, and shall be pleased to
send price lists upon application to the trade only,
EQUITABLE CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETY, Limit®,.
8© COE. LUSTS STREET !EL, I^DESEBOTTaRaSTIQ.
Direct Importers, Merchants and Manufacturers.
Every Household and Personal Requirement under One Roof.
Branches —Chapol-st., Prahr&n ; Brunswick-st., Etteroy ; Bay-st., North Brighton; Dundaa-pL, ,8,
Melbourne ; Burwood-rd., Hawthorn ; Nicholson-st., Footscray.
London Office— 2o &22 COLEMAN ST., E.
WRITE TO THE SECRETARY FOR MONTHLY CIRCULAR, AND REDUCE HOUSEHOLD
EXPENSES 30 PER CENT.


ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
AN ORDINARY OOP CONTAINS MORE ACTIVE
THAN A PINT OF THE BEST ALE OR PORTE®- -
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Niekel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, <fcc.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blaoksmlthing, Plumbing,
Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fltting, of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH," “VALVE,” and “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM" WATER.
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &o.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Pan Cowls, Ca* Fires, Heaters,
Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS,TanIT9 MACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Price on Application.
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL.
2?. 3rS_ X^^^.£&!EsZ!X!!£T,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
Wine and Spirit Merchant and Importer,
CORNER OF
GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS, SYDNEY.
WHOLESALE AND SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
778 & 780 GEORGE STREET, SOUTH.
ISnETW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
anbJ
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
(Melbourne and London.
WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
Wall aoh brothers,
'
W
fs
k
\»oe Ba 1 '
252 a Geerf “
XaJte I*e&£t an3r $Q£2B&
OFFORD & CO,
LIGHTEST, BEST, and CHEAP® 81,
GEORG® 81
NEXT TO ROYAL HOTEL, and at 652
The fresh food and icb company
(Limited),
have'Opened &
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
No. 23 ROYAL AROADK,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Caeca, fee . w ife
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left far fietlvsE#
by their carts,
They have also taken over the Agency it'd
“ KOUMISS." so highly recommended in grains •
nary complaints.
FRESH FOOD AND lOE 00., LIMITED,
Head Office ... ... 21 Harbour-street,
Stables .„ Liverpool-street.
Factory Mittagong,
MINING EXCHANGE HOTEL,
GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
The Central Hotel. Private Sitting Room.
Rendezvous for all parties engorged in mining
business,
H. G. BAILES, Proprietor.
WJ O H N S O N
* . COOPER, SURVEYOR,
and
LICENSED GAUGER,
11 PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND
STREET, SYDNEY.
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces and Kegs, Tallow
Casks, new and second-hand; also, Wine and
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prices.
«AITCIN« IN ALL ITS BRANCHES*
TO WINEGROWERS AND OTHERS
G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE CASKS, 250 to 400 gallons i
also,
Ram, Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS.
Hogsheads, Quarter-casks, Spirit Kegs, from
gallons and upwards.
COOPERAGE
8 1 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET
Between King and Market streets.
k.tJTW u
CHEAP and BE^_
GEN «RATE YOUR ° v ,g
KEEL,BY &
Spreader Gt aS
and
\SVE .HfiHTS €l^ r , :^
One to twenty-four of GasiA r9 il^j
Guaranteed to produoe 1 „j, a ,j, t ve
complications. In nse Jf
teen towns in fcngla||"J“| 0 f co algS "
NOW FIRST INTRORPOI^
Testimonials from
,
FUEL ' A
See stock®' m [//
D. KEELEV *
PRICE
LIST’
1 Branch Brass Bracketi Eg®
With Globe or s H“„. np ..
2 Branch Brass Hanging E‘ -[ ea exW ®
With Globes or Sha«
3 Branch Brass Hanging ; fiß e str»
With Globes or Sha ..
4 Branch Brass Hanging E a F extra
» With Globes °r bha _
2 Branch Brass Table Lamp^
extra
I Branch
With Globes or SW« j, a inP gp *
:h Brass Table l* 1 ■■ |
With Globe or or St»
With Glohe or o"“ e oi
Outside Lamp for Hotel, o
Hector • • _j.,2 bawtlh
Hall Stained Glass Han«,i« g ed wl tb •
Ordinary Street Lamp, • • e d
Spreader Burner.. rr'j n JaP an ,
1 Branch Bracket Lamp,, * eX tr»ye t<f n
With Globe S^ned,JP’% s < W, 1
Kerosene Lamp, Tin J‘P„ 9r iuiHjQ o p (Ml |
Mines, Wool washes, e<l a»l
hurn er ’
lines, W ooiwasuco, ~ -
or, Chimneys, one bunt .
Gandies ... T :L fln ned, °° e
N % ha Sp l frS P Ca T ndles P
Each "
can > e ,06 —- .
Gas Oil per gauon.
Naptha per gallon
8 g* l J)
aptna pm Ar
Address-390 IHTT-3TR®l£ ’
BETH-bTRBj J a icoWf V, f
Remittances.* tion| iV$S>
Address all communi® jjA j-
branch) to 0. » ,„D»
anch) w
.. a h rU ctio» B v|eVS‘i>S rf
out instruct „be ’U ,
p. insurance W,^*7
By carrying _
£ tpplytSer- *
!LAOK, Insurance Brok getD
nsuran.-a Co. 79 GoH'"- 15 ' 8
E. ROWLANDS,
DERATED WATER and CORDIAL MANUFACTURER,
Has REMOVED to NEW
CORITEB OF
BURYS & LITTLE HAY S'*!
DARLINa HAHBO#
ERR
SAUG
SuTPamiig
In consequence #/ Imitations §/ THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAULE which arc calculated fa deceive the Public,, Lea and Perrins
have fa request that Purchasers m that the Label m mvy hetifa
bears their Sign&tmrg
l£o*.
Withml which m huu &/ ike wighml WOMCESPEMSMSM
SAUCE is genuine*
i'f k J° r LE^ Sarnie, and see Name on Wmppssr, Label, Amh smS
Stopper Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse m#
blackwell, London, Wc., We.; mid by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World,
.Wholesale Agents« Morremraoia®, Joseph Sc Co.i TSavtt» Cohen & 0 0 ., Sydney,
MT, THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
CAPITA!, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on stuns from £1 to £6O in the Savings Bank
Branch. Payable on demand. Offices, i Park-st.
THOS. HOLDERNESS, Acting Manager,
WOHDERS! WOBDEES! WONBEES!
WONDERS OF THE WORLD ! !
MARVELLOUS Wonders of the whole World
is a vast Museum of all that is marvellous
and wonderful in tho earth, sea, air, and skies.
Unparalleled opportunity for rnakinp money fast.
Fauns on Application, circulars and full par-
ticulars,
R. B. JONES, 614 George-st., Sydney.
cjt
<&■
*- \V
o'-'
t'V-
dfcsdcfsdsf
&
r«
cf^ C S^, C
•3\i-
POBOSOSKI,
705 GEORGffi-ST.,
Sydney.
CONCERTINAS
ACCORDEONS
VIOLINS, &c.
Strings sent by Posy
705 GEORGE STREET.
HOtESAL£ MANUFACTURES
JAMES STEDMAN
Steak wouks,KkVt s* nsa« £**iu«tsT
, eH' jfr**#, cutAmuaA
rtr amojch am ematrresT matte*.
frwmmr aSmrrvtC Omoamt, fltmWmtm
A SOYERE^iIf
To all Afflicted "Jj* f ;
'Dolokkux, ****?*?&* J
. Fa cb-
ROSB’b n A^WW,m
Ihia Lotion is & e jU /jjj
Styes. It not °^J 9
Blight, but strongVftfj/
Amonials from those
ta agency can be B® gt ft »
iTacuity to be the a
pot' ,|
F,.P.«"*'
L A, BOSE,
SSI , ; s;. ~|
WINE
Opposite reC e' ?t}
ar Country Orders
Technical College Laboratory, Sydney, 30th
October, 1886.—The Syphon ACrated Water Com-
pany. Gentlemen, Having seen the process of
Crated Water manufacture carried on by you.
and having examined analytically your product
I can bear witness j -j its pusity, and thorough
saturation with carbonic acid g w , Chemical
analysis shows that your system of water purifi
I cation is as near perfection as oan be.—l remain
V yours truly Wiix. A. Dixon F.I.G. FC S ” *
15 CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY
PRESERVE
t-rf 0
' lha Water wade
families at each mea j-
.and should he a^ op
and hev
erag fl
