

The Bulletin
DISSOLUTION of partnership.
IN CONSEQUENCE OF THE ABOVE, MESSRS.
RTe
ILLI AMS & Co.
HAVE DECIDED TO OFFER THE WHOLE OF THEIR
nsive and well-selected stock op
oots and Shoes
X-OTTsT PRICES!
COMMENCING ON
AY. Ist AUGUST, 1887.
£
6 Not Deceived. This is a GENUINE SALE, to Close Partnership Accounts.
1
NOTE THE A. L) 1) 1Z ESS:
and CO., 278 George Street
Y
(OPPOSITE MARGARET STREET);
WILLIAMS and CO., 412 George Street
.(XaAK KOYAL HOTJIL.)


df
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES ft PRICES'POST FREE -
.W.H.PALINO&G 1 "*"
356 GEORGE ST SYDNEY.
fiAflo, Organ # Music Importers,
Largest stockand greatest Variety in Australia - ng the
public the Widest possible choice.-PIANOS from £Ao, ORGANS from£l2-
’ PAYMENT 8Y MONTH CY J N STAUMENTS TO SUIT ALL CUSTOMERS
V&UHG&& PALING &>(£ PRLINGItC*
THE AUSTRALIAN
LOAN, DISCOUNT AND FINAN-
CIAL COMPANY,
Limited.
1
HE3AD office =
CORNER OF MARKET AND YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
INCORPORATED, JUNE, 1888.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO STERLING,
RESERVE, £31,661 4s. STERLING.
THE AUSTRALIAN LOAN, DISCOUNT AND FINAN-
CIAL COMPANY, Limited,
transact all usual Banking Business. Current Accounts
opened. Drafts issued, Bills Discounted, and Advance upon
all kinds of Commercial Securities.
OVERDRAFTS GRANTED AGAINST DEPOSITS
OF DEEDS.
Deposits Received
AND
Interest Allowed
At Call, 4$ per cent.
3 Months, 6 per cent.
6 Months, 7 per cent.
12 Months, 8 per cent.
WITH BONUS ADDITIONS TO DEPOSITS OF
SIX AND TWELVE MONTHS.
Depositors can arrange to withdraw the whole or portion
of their deposits, without notice, and will be allowed current
interest for the period of deposit.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
H. M'NAMARA,
SECRETARY.
CAUTION.
THE UNITED HORSE-SHOE & NAIL CO., Lmd.
CUSTOMERS of the Uuited Horse Shoe aud
Nail Company are cautioned against pur-
chasing a spurious nail, made in imitation of the
“Globe” nails, and which are exported from
Germany.
The nails in question are made of inferior metal,
and are not so well finished as those of The United
Horse-shoe and Nail Company, Limited.
All boxes of The United Company are branded
U.B-S. and N. Co., and customers should take
care that they get the boxes so marked.,
By order.
R. S. HA7EON, Secretary.
115 Cannon-etreet, London, E.C.,
June, 1887.
WILLS’ HOTEL, Mackay, Queensland.
EDMUND DUNNOCK, Proprietor.
Travellers and Families will find the old well-
known reputation maintained.
NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
RB. JONES, Importer and General Agent,
• REMOVED to No. 6 BRIDGE-STREET,
SYDNEY.
AGENTS WANTED to handle our new lines
of fast-selling Subscription Books, &c., &c.
Full particulars free on application. Address :
R. B. JONES, 6 Bridge-at., Sydney.
FITZROY HOTEL,
EAST STREET, ROCKAMPTON.
«T FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL,
Plunge and Shower Bath.
Private Sitting Room, without extra charge.
Good Stabling. Every Accommodation.
JAS. WILLIAMSON. Proprietor.
JMPKRIAL HOTEL, TOWNSVILLE.
Proprietress, SARAH EATON,
late of Muswellbrook and Rockhampton.
US' Family and Commercial Hotel,
Masonic hotel, east-street, rock-
HAMPTON.—T. MURPHY, Proprietor.
Wayside Gleanings:—The “Western Cham-
pion” says: “I can recommend the Rockhampton
Masonic *'o my western friends."
LEICHHARDT HOTEL,
ROCKHAMPTON.
Proprietress—Mrs. J. GIBBS,
(Late of Westport.)
Palace Family Hotel,
Corner op Stanley and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
First-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartment s.
Admitted the coolest and best ventilated
house in the city.
DAVID LYONS, Proprietor.
jgIXCBLSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated corner of Oill and Church-streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
ADELAIDE,
ELDER'S WOOL AND PRODUCE
COMPANY, LIMITED.
CAPITAL *200,000.
STOCK SALESMEN,
WOOL AND SKIN BROKERS,
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS.
ro WINED ROWERS AND OIBB.VJ.
G. BTEPHENSON HAS ON BALB
WINB CASKS, 250 to *on /allonn i
also,
Rum •'ue >*> and Whisky PUNCH HC-J 8,
Hogsheads, Quarter Casks, Bpirlt Kegs i 'one
ga oos and upwards
COOPKEAGF •
87 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET
Between King and Market streets.
A SOVEREIGN EEMEDY
5 o W Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tic-
Dcloreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary I In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE FO-h. BLIGHT
ROSE’S CELEB BRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Bole Proprietor
fl, i. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
681 Georqre-etroot only.
Please Do Not Bead This!!
IT DOES NOT CONCERN YOU.
THERE is NO: excuse for any person of either
sex suffering from those unsightly disfigure-
ments of the Face, Neck, or Skin, causeu by
Pimples, Freckles, Moles, Warts, or any other
kind of skin disease, if they will only listen to a
few words of timely advice, and sit down at once
and write a full, clear, and explicit statement of
their ceu-e, enclosing i viopem y stamps, when
they will receive a candid reply as to ihe length
of time thai will be required to effect a cure, lee,
&c., &c. Suneifluous Bair removed quickly and
painlessly. Red noses restored to normal colour.
a)1 communications held strictly sacred and con-
fidential. Address . Edward T. Hubbell,
Dermatologist, Box 852, G.P.0., Sydney, N.s.W.
SEN OR BERN AD oT
The Celebrated Eclectopathist,
10|Years’ Experience in Hospital Practice, Parle
has established
THE N.S.W. MEDICAL INSTITUTE,
for the speedy, effective, and permanent cure of
Nervous debility, Meutal and Physical Depression, Loss of
Energy, Kidney and Bladder Affections, Liver Com-
plaints, Rheumatism, Skin Diseases, Ailments peculiar
to Ladies, and all morbid conditions of the Blood and
general System, no matter from what cause arising.
Pits of 10 to 20 years’ standing, even after they have been pro-
nounced incurable, successfully treated.
Guarantee of Cure given in every case’undertakei?
Consultation (personally or by letter) free.
CONSULTATION ROOMS* 2 07, ELIZABETH-STREET
Corner of Bathurst-street,
or G.P.0., Box 799.
Hours from 10 a.m. to 9’p.m. daily.
DR. O’CONNELL has removed to Edgar
House, No. 8 Bligh-street. Dr. O’Connell
does not need to advertise at all. His patients,
grateful for their cure and restored health and
vitality, and thankful for the sympathy shown to
them, aDd also the moderation of the charges,
advise their friends to consult and be cured.
Consultation (by person or letter) free.
Dr, J. O'CONNELL,
Edgar House
Comer Bligh and Hunter streets,
SYDNEY.
uum
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Hue your Umbrella Yramei re-
covered. and your
Paraioli re-llned and made eqna
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathnrat Street*
Paraioli made to match co«
tome* Becalm neatly e seen tad
TOBACCO,
if
DIXSON&SONS
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY.
fix SOI
coßquemk,.
dooj^
(01 • SO"*
*» ■ rg»
SIR
—na'ilroo
~CHAM£!O f
mui * too* *
Sag
ivCca^riEr’s
NEW [ZEAI AND
HERBAL REMEDIES.
TESTIMONIALS
From the Soudan Contingent Hospita
Corps; also from eminent Doctors and
Students from Sydney Hospital.
mst
10
ft TAWHIAO.
MONKS
PILE MIXTURE.
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Ask for it and take no substitute.
It is an invaluable cure. See testimonials.
iMronsriKi’s _____
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhcee Mixture,
A positive core. Sold by all Chemist*.
2s. 6d. per bottle.
motstiki’s
NEUEALGJA MIXTURE,
2g. 6d. per bottle,
Sole Agents:
MATHVY, NATHAN & CO.,
1201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
AND
44jLittle Collins Street East, Melbourne.
MINING EXCHANGE HOTEL,
GYMPiiC, QUEENSLAND.
The Central Hotel. Private Sitting Room.
Rendezvous for all parties engaged in mining
business.
H. G. BAILES, Proprietor.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
FIRST-CLASS Accommodation tor Commer-
cial Gentlemen and Families. Private sitting
rooms without extra cbarge. Plunge and Shower
Bath. Billiards (Alcock’s). First-class chef.
Charges srriotly moderate. Wines and spirits of
the best brands, Man meets every steamer,
HANRAN, Junr., Proprietor.
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
Contracting Carriers,
FORWARDING AGENTS.
Head Office: Townsville, N. Queensland.
G. S CURTIS,
Auctioneer &. Real Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
MR. BOLTON (of the firm of Lowry and
Bolton) wishes to inform the numerous
ftiends of the Firm and the travelling public that
he has gone to Mount Morgan to take charge of
the SUNBURST HOTEL, which will henceforth
be carried on under his personal supervision.
Sunbhrst Hotel, Mount Morgan, centrally situated,
and facing the celebrated Mountain. Persons visit-
ing the celebrated Mountain will find every comfort
and convenience to greet them on their arrival.
BILLIARD TABLE AND PIANO ON THE
PREMISES, also STABLING for the accommoda-
tion of Thirty Horses, and a good PADDOCK
within five minutes’ walk of the Hotel. Coaches
DAILY FROM AND TO ROCKHAMPTON.
Note the Address—
MICHAEL BOLTON
(Of the Firm of Lowry & Bolton),
SUNBURST HOTEL,
MOUNT MORGAN.
HH
REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER
labour, atatlonery, and time, writing much fan ter
*“ an . e fP®" pen-men, ana oondenaing matter to leu than
one-half the ipaoe occupied by pen writing. Beautiful
oopiet may be taken in the uiual manner in the letter-preu
Bold wholeiale and retail by the sole agenta,
IMRAY tc CO.,
410 Kent-streeb.
gd
fg
MANUFACTURERS
& 'MPORT^RSJF^
HATS CAPSjc
438 CEORCE ST
3YDNEV
df
grand
, bund*^*
Under »**
—T IN *** 0
FINEST SAMPLE
plunge and sBO wS
Loo se B°* 00
Good Stabling, and L jj
dbawingkoo^J o^^
i.awSi 1 ? B *':
/
p. t0 o> ;,
ALF.
-w* <iate oi ffrlfißU”’
m.,„ «* b ;>
aB CAI>S
"(fa
ROYAL
b«uoader« and wtfe
Iduntial Inquiries j“„ nen di»’
%
!,
irce
KTSTcibm S»rf 'V
ti And debta oouo«w«
ie Detective P? r ‘:® ( .°hilshe<>
Zealand, and ess- $
b. he t« In a poaitioß lecre^'
and *
M.r BWUDU .
Zealand, and este
i#
jB and str
*attend tn all bu^.
w
Mf-
he great
- “hl^7
18, SPB®
tBqn’B._ Walker • ~ (i |
i'b, Walker or •• ;,
u» s Shamrock an _ •; ;. ,* i
Boru Whisky r £ i
esay's; Cognac •_ ' ~jfj
■e Oln
ica Rum
*
ine, for connoisseur
ine and Sb e (jrandy
ASP
ands Whisky or
raffordedtovw-ibes^bs^
re conducted tio 0 ’ b» T,<
xr«llin2ton , atte D " 0 u ”
Wellington ( N „ v ry av
iviU receive eV ™, al
Spirits, and nee p
tteo
Spirits
-ept on fil o -
<440
gdf
gd
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENCINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
fg
J
»»'S
£
lA
Looau £2*m
II
Sydneys
m ( pin street.
t*


The Bulletin
Vol, B~No. 893
SATURDAY, AUGUST 13, 1887.
Price., Cd.
Gillies Swallows the Protectionist Pills.


THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At'2l Pitt -street, Sydney, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable In Advanoe, only).
Per annum - Os*
Half-yearly - - - - O 12s. Od.
Quarterly - - - - O 6s. 6d
All money orders, oheqnes, and registered letters
payable to the proprietors,
The Bulletin Newspaper Company, Lim.
to whom orders for the paper, adyertlsements,
and remittances are to be addressed,
NOTICE.
By lending direct to The Bulletin Offloe twenty ihUUngi
Iterllng—which yon may pay by Boat Office Order, One-
pound Note, or itampi of any Australian oolony—you can
have The Bulutin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer Is mst open to residents of Sydney. In that olty
In* Bulletin is not delivered by mail, bnt Is entirely In
the hands of onr carriers, with whom we do not wish to Inter-
fere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 13, 1887.
The Gaunson-Windeyer Incident.
The administration of justice is by far the
most important duty undertaken m behalf
of the people in their aggregate capacity.
The due enforcement of right conduct on
every individual as towards every other in-
dividual, may, indeed, be regarded as the
foundation on which the whole fabric of
society rests —the quintessential function of
the State, any laxity or inefficiency in the
discharge whereof tends with more or less
directness and more or less effect to bring
about a return to the anti-social condition
synonymous with barbarism. This is as
things are at present. In the dim future,
probably, anarchy will displace all the now
existing forms and systems of Government.
The world is progressing with rapid strides
towards anarchy, day by day. The opera-
tions of Government, properly so-called, are
vastly narrowed in every respect as compared
with what they were at as recent a date as
the beginning of this century. Then the
belief was pretty generally held that Govern-
ment should concern itself with the indivi-
dual’s conscience as well as his overt
conduct, and with his overt conduct
where it did not affect the bodily condition
or pecuniary interests of other individual,
but only shocked their notions touching re-
ligion, or science, or form of government.
In the meantime personal liberty has grown
to imposing proportions, and, of course, the
functions of Government have shrunk in
corresponding ratio. But even in these days
the “negative-regulative control,” to use
Herbert- Spencer’s phrase, exercised by
Government, constitutes, as we have said,
the highest and most pregnant function of
the St.te ; and it still behoves good citizens
to watch the discharge of that function with
jealous care, and to insist on its performance
with as near an approach as possible to ideal
justice. The Legislature, as regards the
making of laws, is now-a-days closely
watched and criticised ; but somehow, un-
happily, the certainly not less important
work of administering the laws continues to
be looked upon as, to no small extent, above
criticism, and hence the functionaries con-
cerned in this business, from Supreme Court
judges down to common policemen, have
developed methods of their own in many
ways absolutely inimical to justice. The
Bulletin last week referred to this unfortunate
state of thiugs, and to the cause of it. Ho
doubt the inherited veneration of the people
for personages clothed with “ the King’s
authority ” is at the bottom of it, and no
doubt priestly teaching underlies that. But
here we would deal with the case then
specially referred to more in the abstract.
Probably if Mr. Justice Windeyer were
prohibited from wearing a big wig and
ermine, and thus allowed the people to see
him undecorated with the trappings of sub-
royalty, his demeanour as a conductor of
trials would be more to public criti-
cism, inasmuch as the superstitious venera-
tion of the ignorant for the outward signs of
power would be set at naught. The Bul-
letin’s purpose to-day, however, is to exa-
mine the Judge and his recent critics apart
from the cause which operates to make all
Judges the reverse of just—an evil in the
land instead of a blessing.
* * *
Mr. Windeyer’s conduct of the Mount
Hennie trial has been brought into pro-
minence again by the judgments passed in
the Victorian Assembly by Mr. David
Gaunson. The language employed by Mr.
GaUNSon was certainly harsh, but in reality
much of it no more than depicted
the laches described in the fullest de-
tails in the columns of this journal
at the time of the notorious trial.
The Bulletin then contended that the
Governor “must, in the interests of justice,
commute these death-sentences, if only on
the ground that the men have neVer had a
proper trial according to the spirit of British
law.” And we went on to confront the
public with these undoubted faces
“ Most of the youths were defended by unpaid
junior counsel assigned by the Crown, and, mon-
strous to relate, tne Court by which they were
sentenced sat during the following hours :
Monday 10 a.m. to 9 n.m.
Tuesday 9 a m. to 11 30 p m.
Wednesday 9 a.m. to 6 30 p.m.
Thursday 9 a m. to 6 45 p.m.
Friday 9 a.m. to 3.30 a.m next day.
Saturday 9 a.m. to midnight!
On the Wednesday and Thursday of that
dreadful week, the only two days on which
the presiding Judge adjourned the proceed
ings at a reasonable hour, his Honor calmly
went, on the one evening to a dinner at
Government House, and on the other to a
junketting at the Royal Hotel. With the
exception of an intermission of only five
hours, Mr. Windeyer kept jury and counsel
at work from 9 o’clock on the Friday morn-
ing until 12 o’clock on Saturday night—in
the middle of the hot season, and in the
foetid atmosphere of a crowded court —with
the issue of life and death in question in
respect of nigh a dozen human beings !
And he did this, despite the protests
of counsel, and despite the patent fact
that exhausted jurymen were no longer able
to yield attention to evidence or harangues of
counsel or his own lengthy (ten-hours !)
summing up. Mr. Gaunson styled Mr.
Windeyer’s conduct “ brutal,” and all the
soi-disant leading newspapers of Australia
have been mightily indignant at the phrase.
No doubt Mr. Gaunson could easily have
chosen a more appropriate expression.
He might, for instance, have said it was
cruel and inhuman to rush on a trial in
which 11 lives were at issue in such a manner
as to exhaust the physical and mental
energies of those engaged in the investiga-
tion ; for by such procedure the alleged cul-
prits might not enjoy the advantage of an in-
telligent judgment, but be made the victims
of a somnolent acquiescence on the part of the
jury in the opinion of the Judge ; and when,
as in the Mount Rennie trial, the Judge
expresses views strongly against the accused
men, the only inference deducible by that
large section of the public not gifted with
deep insight was that the hurried proceedings
were consequent upon a biased and injudicial
state of mind in the Judge all through. Nor
is there room for a more lenient view of Mr.
Windeyer’s conduct in his attitude subse-
quent to the verdict. The jury recom-
mended the convicts to mercy. iThe Judge
proceeded at midnight to pass the last dread
sentence of the law upon the miserable
youths, explicitly holding out no hope of the
jury’s recommendation being seriously enter-
tained ; and, although the public know little
or nothing of what passed later on between
Mr. Windeyer and the Executive, there is
ground for the suspicion that his report in
no small degree influenced the final results.
* 7r *
The manner of the trial called forth a
vigorous protest, addressed to Governor
Carington, by one of the counsel engaged
in the defence. Mr. T. C. O’Mara, in a
letter to his Excellency, said :
“ At the late trial of the youths accused and
convicted of participation in the Mount Rennie
outrage I appeared as counsel on behalf of Robert
George Read At a critical stage of the inquiry
ic became nay duty to protest in open oourt against
the manner in which the trial proceeded, so far as
it affected my client. That protest I believe to be
so well-founded that I cannot rest content with-
out prosecuting it to the very last stage. Hence
it is that I address your Excellency. It is rarely
that counsel obtrudes upon the attention of the
Executive that which he has already had the
opportunity of urging elsewhere, but there are
times when to be silent is a crime, and this I be-
lieve to be eminently one of these occasions.”
And he followed with a scathing commen-
tary on the shameful conduct of the trial
from start to finish, concluding with the
statement that his client asked at near mid-
night on the fifth day of a prolonged and
exhausting trial, that those in whose hands
he had placed himself (the jury and his
counsel) might have a few hours’ rest.
“ He asked this favour, my lord, and asked it, I
regret to say, in vain. If there is anything, as
your Excellency well knows, by which British
oriminal procedure is nobly distinguished from
that of other countries it is by its humane and
jealous protection of the rights of an accused
person from the moment of charge to that of con-
viotion. And this protection is mercifully ex-
tended to him, and not, my lord, as some people
appear to think, withdrawn from him, in propor-
tion to the enormity of the offence of which he is
aocused.”
Yet the Judge publicly and quasi-officially
charged with such egregious mismanagement
of a most important trial, has no lack of de-
fenders in the Press against the attack made
upon him in Victoria. The Bulletin
referred last week to the S.M. Herald’s
glorification of Mr. Windeyer as “a re-
solute administrator of the law, and pro-
tector of the interests of the weak against
lawlessness and violence. ” The Melbourne
Argus had something to say to the same
effect; and now the Sydney Evening News
has indulged in an attempt to justify the ex-
traordinary conduct of this Judge, and to
paiut Mr. Gaunson’s criticisms of that con-
duct as merely an indecent and gratuitous
vilification. Language of the kind used by
Mr. Gaunson, the News argues, “ not only
shows real ruffianism ; it defeats its object.’
But language of the kind used by Mr.
Gaunson— coarse, though it be—is directly
consequent on the outrage of at least the
forms of public justice to which it referred.
Like begets like. It w r as impossible for
even such a master of rhetoric as Gladstone
to speak of the Bulgarian atrocities in mild
dnd Parliamentary plirases ; one may well
forgive a GAunson for employing vitupera-
tive expressions touching tra saetions in the
highest degree culpable and disgraceful—in-
volving as they do measures of gross injus-
tice taken by an institution which assuredly
ought to personify justice in all its dignity
and purity.
.. * » *
Mr. Justice Windeyer wil probably
soon return to his official duties, and no
doubt he would gladly, as any other judge
would under the painful circumstances,
have the Mount Rennie business entirely
forgotten. According to a statement
made a few weeks ago by the Xew
South Wales Minister for Justice, one of Mr.
Windeyer’s first duties will be to report
upon alleged facts relating to that case which
have transpired since the trial, and which
possibly might have been investigated at the
trial if it had been conducted in as
patient and regular a manner as that
which invariably characterises the hearing of
trumpery civil actions. Mr. Windeyer,
we are inclined to think, would show wisdom
in refusing to have anything more to do with
the Mount Rennie case. The public will
assuredly appreciate him the more if he
quietly effaces himself in this connection.
Rightly or wrongly the popular mind is filled
with mistrust as regards his mental capability
to assume an aspect of fairness in cases
where an alleged “ outrage ” is the subject
of inquiry ; and he himself, we think, will
readily admit that tho popular belief in the
integrity of legal administration is an im-
portant factor in the preservation of general
good conduct. Once the people begin to
doubt the fitness ahd calm impartiality of
the Judges with anything like general accord,
there can be no telling what disaster may
overbake the best interests of the law. If
only for the sake of appearances, therefore
we would seriously counsel Mr. Windeyer
to excuse himself from further meddling
with a business for which he is clearly not
fitted by nature, and in connection with
which in the past he has incurred in many
quarters nothing save adverse criticism, not
to say “ brutal vituperation. ”
Jay Gould and the Chinese Dragon.
Jay Gould threatens to become the mo3t terrible
practical teacher of political economy that this
generation has known. If the cable may be
believed (and there is in this instance no reason
to doubc its veracity, for the message could in no
case be made to serve Imperial purposes) the
American millionaire has undertaken the task of
educating the Chinese nation up to the nineteenth
century standard. He has opened a bank at
Shanghai, and will almost immediately proceed to
develope the country by constructing railways
aoross its whole breadth. He is, according to
cabled messages, to act as Minister for Works to
the Empire, using unlimited capital and unre-
strained authority in carrying out his plans. That
he will make colossal profits out of the contract
is likely enough. A financial genius of the first
rank and fewest scruples, who has made millions
by his dealings with men educated in the smartest
commercial school in the world, is not likely to be
“left” by Chinese whose narrow brains are un-
versed in that branch of the science of finance of
which Jay GounD is the first exponent; that he
will “ get ahead” of tfiem in the deal is as certain
as that a “spieler” who gives lessons in Nap. to
a “Juggins” will profit by the course of instruc-
tion, but this effset of the arrangement is of small
importance : the influence of the treaty over the
Chinese themselves, and the change it will work
in their relative position in the world is, on the
contrary, a matter of vital interest and import.
* * *
China is a nation of incalculable possibilities.
Dowered with surpassing wealth of minerals and
abounding in rich agricultural lands, it is difficult
to name any necessity or luxury that could not be
produced there. And yet natural advantages are
but the least item of her potentialities. Upon her
territory there dwells a population of more than
400,000,000 persons. Seventy-four millions live on
an area less than that of Victoria; 176,000 000
upon a smaller territory than that of New South
Wales. One province, containing 44,560 square
miles, has an average population of 867 per mile-
more than double the average population of Bel-
gium, and considerably more than twice that of
the United Kingdom. And this vast multitude
exists without the aid of the machinery and ap-
pliances in common and constant use among all
European nations, In the most primitive modes
the national undertakings and industries are
carried on ; half the fruits of labour are wasted
for the want of practical application of mechanical
science. The want of mechanical assistance has
had its influence upon the habits, and even upon
the physique of the nation. The density of popu-
lation has made the struggle for existence one of
phenomenal fierceness, and the muscular
exertion of the individual has to bear the
brunt of the conflict. Therefore it is that the
Chinese as a'natlon work more continuously and
more slavishly than any other people under the
sun. They are forced to do it by the very exigen-
cies of their national circumstances. Other
peoples who still cling to barbarous methods have
wider lands to work upon ; civilised peoples with
fesser density of population are aided in their
struggle with Natiire by the appliances invented
by Stephenson, Arkwbight, Edison, aDi
others. As their forefathers worked what lime
the Roman Empire was mistress of the world, so
and in like manner the inhabitants work to-day ;
nought has been changed, save the severity of
social conditions. Unremitting toil to the multi-
tude in that land is not the road to affluence, but
the price of bare existence. Labour is less pro-
fitable there under present conditions than it ever
has been in any part of the world, ancient Egypt
under the Pharoahs perhaps excepted. It is be-
yond all comparison lower than in any portion of
he modern wo’Td. Jay Gould, therefore, in the
execution of his designs will be able to command
a limitless supply of labour at prices unknown in
those countries which formerly have been the
world's manufacturers. It is not for an instant to
be supposed that he will confine his attention to
railway construction. He and his peers in the
aristocracy of finance will establish factories to
compete with those of the States, of England, and
of Australia. To compote ? The word competi
tion is misplaced when perverted to describe the
contest of Australian labour at 12s. per day of
eight hours with Chinese labour at, say, 6s. per
week of eighty-four hours. Jay Gould will be
the Attila of production. The latter had upon
his accession to power a countless horde of men by
whom life was held in small estimation, and add.
ing his genius to their numbers he conquered half
the then known world. Jay Gould in similar
fashion has allied himself to 400,000,000 of people
whose labour can be hired for a mere trifle,
and by adding his brain to their muscle he can
conquer the industries of the whole universe, i f
he be unhampered by patriotically imposed pro-
tective tariffs. Att(la’B boast was that no grass
grew where his horse trod: and from whatever
market goods produced by Chinese labour under
American direction, may come, the products of
enfranchised labour will be certainly abolished.
Independence cannot compete with slavery.
• * •
Jay Gould’s recent contest with the Knights of
Labour in the States sheds a brilliant light upon
tho reason of his troaty with China. It is true
that the men on that occasion were beaten, but
with better organisation and more prosperous
times a different ensuement may soon b 8 recorded.
Doubtful of his power to crush Labour in the in-
evitable struggle of the near future, he has sought
out a new ally. The miserable millions of China
are to be to him the means of overthrowing the
independence of American workers. And to
effect the conquest of Labour in America, Ping-
land, or Australia, it will not be necessary to bring
many markets under the domination of Chinese
manufactures. Every band of operatives thrown
out of employment, by their very destitution be
come a menace and a danger to the men employed
in other trades. “ Every gate is thronged with
suitors, all the markets overflow” when one gate
or one considerable market of Labour is closed to
those who would enter. There are two causes for
this effect. There is in the first place a surplus of
Labour to be provided for somehow, and there is
also a decreased demand for commodities,
for men out of employment cannot take
their share as formerly of the products of
the labour of others. It is a keen appreciation of
these facts that has induced Jay Gould to bear a
part in the work of modernizing Chiaese methods.
His study of political economy has been of a
strongly practical nature, and its result is this
present attempt to effect the degradation of
Labour. Whether the attempt will succeed,
when made by him, or by imitators for whom
his action has opened a way to China, or not,
simply depends upon the defence afforded by
Protective tariffs. The wholesale use of the
pauper labour of Asia is in strict accord with the
‘Brotherhood of Labour,” of which Mr. M‘Millan
so applausively orate 3. It is of the very essence
of Freetrade to degrade all labour to the level of
i he lowest. Jay Gould, therefore, in his present
attack upon the independence of American work-
men, may fairly be classed as the chief Freetrader
of the Universe. He is illustrating and seeking
to apply on a magnificent scale the maxims which
Cobden promulgated, and the mighty Puisford
upholds at the rate of so much per year, paid
monthly.
* * *
Freetrade writers are not oblivious of the
changes impending as the result of Jay Gould’s
action. They with prophetic voice declare that
the use of Chinese labour will have a twofold
effect —it will enable Australians to buy some
goods more cheaply than they have hitherto done,
and will create a new demand for Australian
wool. The “Calico Jimmies ” are to do a larger
trade, and the squatters are to have a new assist
ance in their achievement of colossal fortunes.
fSuch a result is in complete accord with the aim
of Freetraders. To their peculiar vision the popu-
lation of Australia would seem to contain only
two classes who are worth consideration —the
importers and the squatters. That the free im-
port of Chinese manufacturers would benefit these
classes we are willing to admit, but we refuse to
admit the wisdom of giving them a monopoly of
colonial prosperity. Their innings has been long
and inordinately profitable; there is not the
faintest justification for a further extension of
their present monopoly of prosperity—prosperity
which, is drawn from the depression and destitu-
tion of the great ma3S of our industrious fellow-
citizens. The undue prosperity of a class has ever
been at the expense of the many ; whether the
importers shall in future be permitted to add to
the inordinate advantages they have hitherto en-
joyed is a question to which the main principle of
Protection returns a negative unhesitating and
unqualified.
The Bulli Relief Fund.
Judging from correspondence to hand, the scheme
of distribution adopted by the managers of the
Bulli Fand is not giving satisfaction, either to
those who have claims on the money or those who
have subscribed it. Nor is this master for sur-
prise. The principle on which committee
have decided to succour the unfortunate people is
radically bad. and when the.details of' the flaw are


investigated there sticks out at all points evidence
of gross incompetency, to say the very least. The
proper wav to distribute thi3 fund is to divide
it among the widows and parents, giving to each
in proportion to her needs and the support she has
to afford to unearniag children. One member of
the committee put hi 3 finger on the real truth of
the matter when he expressed the hope that “ it
was not supposed the Fund was intended to sup-
port these people.” This gentleman, Mr. Macin-
tosh. understood, he said at a meeting of the
Executive body, that the objects of the Fund were
to relieve the widows and orphans of immediate
want, and to put them in t ie way of earning their
living by their own industry. This is a plain state-
mentof what obviously was, andought tohavebeen,
tha idea of the public in subscribing the money. Yet
the committee have settled upon a plan which aims
at yielding a miserable, pauper like support to the
women and children, for life, or pending arrival
at a certain age, or changing condition of life.
The widows are to have £3O a year until death or
re-marriage, and the children £lO a year until
they reach the age of 15 ; and in return for this
miserable pittance they are to submit to the
espionage and even control of trustees placed in
authority over them. The moral effect of such a
mode of treatment cannot fail to bs bad. The
poor women will suffer under an ever present
sense of dependence on cold and inadequate
charity, and their most natural inst incts and de-
sires will be turned away by considerations
thrust upon them at all points by the individuals
who have somehow gotten themselves into the
management of this national bounty. Many of
these widows may be clever, and with a decent
start might attain positions of independence, and
even affluence. But they must rest content with
£3O a year. Many of them, again, may in time
meet men with whom they would fain mate—for
even the lowly collier class are trammelled occa-
sionally with a desire for matrimony—but a
legal mating in their cass will involve the
sacrifice of £3O per annum, so, where love
is potent, the result will by no means be condu-
cive to the interests of morality. The proposal is
to give a widow re-marrying the sum of £IOO
that is a little over three years' purchase of the
annuity—a commutation on a basis that can only
be styled fraudulent. A woman who has any
des're to marry has, as a rule, a fair expectancy
of life, averaging in a score of women probably
not less than thirty years, yet her £3O annuity is
to be collared for £IOO 1 A more audacious and
brazen-faced piece of cozening was never before
planned —not even by the black-coated fraternity
who hover round a charity like crows round a
dying lamb.
* #
But even if the widows are ’not to lose the con-
trol of the capital sums belonging to them, surely
they and their heirs should enjoy the full interest
thereon in perpetuity. The amount available is
about £40,000. There are 35 widows, and if each
were allowed a capital sum on an average of
£7OO, and this invested at 8 per cent. —a rate of
interest easily procurable, without risk—she could
be in receipt of £56 per annum, or nearly double
the annuity terminable at death proposed to be
given, while the capital itself would remain in-
tact. And an arrangement of this kind for the
widows would leave a balance of over £15,000
available for the others interested in the fund—an
amount quite ample for all the demands likely to
be made outside those of the chief sufferers. The
committee sesm, indeed, to have been actuated by
a wish to promote interests connected in no per-
ceptible or imaginable way with the Bulli sufferers.
They say it will take £28,485 to obtain the annui-
ties they propose to give; and this large sum will
disappear in due course when all the annuitants
have died or married, or (in case of children)
reached the age of fifteen. Who is to get this
enormous capital sum? Is it to flow into the
pockets of some financial organisation—some
“ Prudential Assurance Society,” or Land Mort-
gage Company ? That is what the public are
anxious to know. We may rest assured that not a
penny will ever be returned to the subscribers or
their heirs ; and, consequently, a large number of
subscribers are curious to learn the ultimate desti-
nation of the important sum. It would be a ter-
rible breach of the law of libel to print the solu-
tions of this mysterious matter that have been
suggested by correspondents, so we simply leave
the intelligent reader to probe into the pudding for
himself. One thing is self-evident: the whole
scheme demands the immediate and earnest atten-
tion of the public, with the view of investigating
the claims of the majority of the executive com-
mittee to be regarded as a set of muddlers and
gulls.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Parkes and Militarism.
The other day we incidentally remarked that the
Premier of N.S.W., like all mentally half-emanci-
pated men, always lost his head when that un-
manageable organ caught the sound of the “ shrill
tramp,” the “ neighiog steed,” and became mo-
mentarily dazed with the “ pride, porno, and cir-
cumstance of glorious war.” Sir Henrv’s busy
brain is always at work creating imaginary
armies, and conceiving architectural graveyards
and State cenotaphs in which to render them
thanks for mythical services. Having laid the
keel of his national bone-yard, the Premier cudgels
his cerebrum for the germ of his army, and
imagines he has it —by the tail—in the wonderful
notion of a back-blocks cavalry corps—a regiment
of bushrangers. Shade of Ben Hall, will the
Unfortunate colony of N.S. W. never get away
from its chain-gang babyhood or its brigand ado-
lescence ? Are the unfortunate dwellers in that
freetrade-smitten land always to be twit ed by the
choice of such designations for ordinarily harmless
things as to be for ever reminded of the
different stages of their slowly-wrought sal-
vation from recognised thiefdom to sub rosa
swindledom ? Bush cavalry 1 Bushrangers 11 Sir
Henry would probably call his infantry require-
ments “ footpado,” and his sharp-shooters
“ cracksmen.” But all this aside. New South
Wales has from time to time been cursed by a lot
of undefined and promiscuous military genius,
chiefly of the amateur brand. There was the-
late Sir James Martin with his harbour fortifica'
tions and casemate batteries ; then Mr. W. B.
Dai.ley with his “shirt-sleeved” imitation of
C esar—though there was more of rubicund than
Rubicon in the Manly warrior—his Soudan lunacy, t
and his lectures on the ideal “ Australian Soldier.”
Next Sir Henry Parkes took up the gory theme
and gave the colony his conception of the bour-
geois manslayer. Lord Carington on his arrival
gave the “m lngtary” a spurt by condescending
to command a drawing-room cirp3 which he con-
fidently predicted would eat no end of Russians if
lhe ill-advised subjects of the Czar were such
fools as to attempt a landing on the shores of New
South Wales. Dr Creed next took up the war
like theme and chan ei torpedoes and submarine
mines with Mr. Crackxell, verse and verso
about —strophe and am istrophe. D a n t he Jayneal
called loudly for an Irish corps, and demanded an
opportunity to lead Erin to victory astride a hors
de combat One after another th-y have kept the
ball —the cannon-ball —a-rolling, until it has
tumbled into the Premier’s lap again, and, like
Richard of Bosworth fame, he rends the vault of
Heaven with frantic beseechings for a horse, or a
whole corps of bush horsemen. What the Premier
should do, if he really wants to be of use in this
matter, is to give what little assistance lie 3 in him
to the formation of an Australian Defence
Corp 3. No pretty uniforms, no shoulder-knots, no
pipe-clay belt and red-ochre tunic parade*,
no tinsel, no trappings, none of the mon-
umental Tommyrot that suggests playing at
soldiers, nothing of this military millinery, this
popinjay rhodomontade of silly rites and senti-
mental ceremonies are wanted. Let Sir Henry
Parkes enable all able-bodied men who wish to
be in a position to defend their country against
the attack of an outside foe to learn the use of a
rifle and the value of combination in war. Let <
them learn the art of defending their homes with-,
out glare or glitter if they will do so, and let him
give them a gun, a belt, and a bayonet, and pro-
vide ins [.ruction for those who do not know how
to kill their fellow-men scientifically. If we are
obliged to foster or to recognise the necessity of'
this cut-throat policy let us do so honestly, and
put our heel firmly and unhesitatingly down upon
all this fatuous tawdry sentiment.
4
The Sydney D. V. and Freedom of
Trade.
The Bulletin has convicted the D.T. times out
of number of holding views diametrically opposed
to its professed principles of Freetrade ; and once
again we have that amusing organ of the Calico
Jemmies on the hip. The Cobdenists inform ua
with untiring persistency that “Protection re-
affirms the principle of slavery,” inasmuch as it
tends to contract and confiscate the right of every
individual to choose his own method of gaining a
livelihood. The D.T. professes to hold this doc-
trine in the highest reverence. Yet last week it
went bald-headed into an advocacy of “ stamping-
out” measures in respect of certain unlicensed
medical practitioners, who, it would appear, have
been duping and swindling the public with un-
blushing effrontery and absolute impunity a la
the B’reetrade Press. The D.T.’s contention that
the public ought to be protested against the
charlatans and impostors who gull the public with
their pretensions to fabulous powers of healing is
perfectly logical and just. But it is the antithesis
of Freetrade, since it argues an interference with
the liberty (so dear to tne Freetrader’s heart) of
every citizen to employ his labour and energies
and means in accord with his own notions of self-
interest. If the State is to exercise its power to
prevent, say, Milner Stephen practising as
a healer, thus practically compelling him to
adopt some other occupation, why shomd not the
same power be exerted with the view of inducing
graziers to become agriculturists, and land sharks
to become manufacturers ? And if the State is
justified in putting a check on the facility with
which the public may purchase quack nostrums,
why on earth should it be disallowed from
acting in a similar way with regard to other thiDgs
the use of which by the public is demon-
strably inimical to the national well-being ?
The theory of Freetrade is that every man should
be allowed the utmost freedom of action, because
he is the best judge of his own interests ; and
that when every man is permitted to pursue his
own interests in his own way the community in
the aggregate will quickly develope immea-
surable piosperity and happiness. Yet here we
have a great exponent of Freetrade insisting on
seriously curtailing individual freedom in respect
to such a simple matter as the employment of a
medicine man, and insisting that the State should
authoritatively declare to its subjects ; “ Only this
doctor or this shall you employ !” Truly, if one
wants to find arguments against the doctrines of
the Manchester school monomaniacs he needs
but to read the prints ostensibly devoted to the
support of those absurdities.
4 -
Civilised Punishment.
At Bathurst, N.S.W., the other day, a young man
whose name we need not give, a railway clerk,
pleaded guilty of stealing £lB, the property of
the Government, and was liberated on bail of
£lOO, to appear for sentence when called upon.
This is civilisation at last. The convict was
young, and it was his first offence. To have sent
him to prison, to herd with men grown grey
in the pursuit of a variety of criminal occupa-
tions, would most probably have resulted in the
outturn in due course of a first-class thief de-
manding a deal of costly attention at the hands of
the State. We sincerely trust young will
prove the advantage of the system (new to New
South Wales) of letting first offenders against
probity have another chance, by directing his
studies wholly to honest methods of acquiring
wealth. But if it is right and proper for tbe
young man to be thus dealt with—and beyond
all doubt or question it is—why should
not the gaol doors be opened to scores of men now
incarcerated for like offences committed in per-
fectly similar circumstances? A bank teller a
fe w yeans ago was ordered ten years’ penal servi-
tude for purloining the funds in his care. He was
youug, it was his first offence, and he did it in a
moment of madness engendered by a turf loss. He
will doubtless be a case-hardened, hopeless, brain-
broKen criminal by the time he regains his liberty.
Then there are the cases ot Berner, Holt, and a
score of others who could be named all of whom
might fittingly be set at liberty if there is justice
in the plan adopted in the young man’s case. And ;
there was a mat er brought before the very same 1
judge at Bathurst, in which a corresponding
leniency might well have been shown. Twenty-
one years ago Josiah Cramp (a man now old and
grey) was accused of sheep-stealing, and while the
charge was in course of being investigated
he decamped, his disappearance continuing until
a few week 3 ago. He was brought up before
Judge Docker at the Bathurst sessions, and,
though the original prosecutor and a principal
witness were long since dead, the old and worn-
out man was convicted, and sentenced to six
months’ hard labour, Mr. Docker observing with
unctuous approval that—*' The mills of the gods
grind slowly ; but they grind exceeding small.”
The mills of tne gods 1 The mills of all the in-
carnate fiends of hell, he might more truthfully
have said. The treatment of young 1 was
human, and in accord with the teachings of social
scientists. The treatment dealt out by the law
to the old sheep-stealer was worthy only of
Chief Justice Darley’s friend, Sir Matthew
Hale.
4
Unitea Australia.
It is not often that a prominent public man rises
uu to prophesy that there will be a change in the
present state of Australian politics—unless he
happens t* be in, what some old reporter, whose
dust became incorporated with cabbages or man-
gold-wurzel many a year ago. called “ the cold
shade of opposition ” —when, of course, he prog-
nosticates the speedy downfall of the Ministry.
But he rarely goes further, except now and then,
when flushed with champagne at some Minis-
terial or municipal banquet he utters splendid
vaguenesses about the goiden future of Australia.
What, then, is to be thought of a Governor—the
representative of an Imperial ruler—saying that
he “ supposed we may take it for granted that all
Australia is now, or very soon will be, one ? ”
That in itself seems a harmless enough statement.
But when it is panned out it assumes a very dif-
ferent appearance. People who foam at the
mouth if anything savouring of dissatisfaction
with British rule is expressed in their presence
cheered themselves hoarse when they heard the
remark fall from gubernatorial lips. Yet if they
were only to learn that it really meant they
would bo the prey of remorse for the rest of
thoir lives. As a matter of inevitable develop-
ment Australia must, sooner or later, become one
great nation, and, bidding a kindly farewell to
the Mother Country, go forward to fulfil her own
great destiny alone. The greater cannot lean
upon the less. Yet there wdl be, no doubt, even
in that coming time a class of persons who will
still cling desperately to the hem of Britannia’s
mantle But the world will move on and carry
them with it in spite of all their struggles. Who
hears now of the loyalist* in America wno opposed
the Declaration of Independence ? Who has not
heard of those who signed it and of those who
made it a living fact ? It may be a 3 well to re-
mark here that the Governor who made the
statement we quoted is Sir William Robinson, of
South Australia. He made it at one of the
Adelaide Exhibition Banquets held lately. Sir
William Robinson is chiefly famous for having
composed a piece of music “ out of his own head.”
4
Bogus Representation of the
Colonies.
The one thing needed by the different Australian
colonies i 3 genuine representation in London.
Representation of such a nature that no sham
delegate appointed as a means of placating dis-
appointed political ambition by a political rival
should have any power to figure as the official
mouthpiece of any individual colony. The office
is too likely to be the meed of some incapable Im-
perialist, who, after exhibiting phenomenal
inability to pull the wires in his colony, is sent to
England where the stage is less roomy and the
trap-doors less numerous, and wire-pulling in the
interests of Imperialism generally an altogether
easier game than amidst the democratic environ-
ment of Australia. In the hands of such an
easily-manipulated official of the pronounced
retrograde polype species of politician even our
very virtues assume the complexion of viciousness
and our democratic sympathies are filtered through
an Imperialisiic medium. A Sydney eveuing
paper heads a cablegram in re Sir Patrick J»n
nings’ opinion on Home Rule with the
line “Australia’s Opinion on Home Rule,”
and beneath this the sub-line “ Sir Patrick
Jennings Interviewed,” as if this worthy
“ returned colonist” were authorised to speak on
the matter on behalf of the whole Continent, when
he is no more than the mouthpiece of a small Im-
perialistic section —if that —in the colony which
he is paid to play at representing. Under the
present idiotic management of Downing-street
it is made to appear that an irresponsible, though
possibly harmless delegate of a more successful
political rival, is really an Australian representa-
tive, empowered to speak on matters, in which
Australia may be concerned, with an ex cathedra
weight and authority. So far is this sort of thing
successful that a presumably well-informed organ,
like the Pall Mall Gazette, is hocussed into an
interview with the Knight of St. Gregory and
into publishing his utterances with all the flourish
of inspired print. Sir Patrick, of course, took
care to grossly misrepresent the people from whom
he draws his s alary. He said that tha majority
of Australians were in favour of Home fiuie, but
in favour of Home Rule from an Imperial stand-
point. Imperial fiddlesticks ! Ha further stated
that Australians naturally sympathised with a
people who were struggling to attain that which
they themselves had won after a period of much
trial and difficulty. He might have added much
rum and many floggings. The people of Australia
sympathise with the Irish because they themselves
enjoy a greater measure of freedom, it is true. But
the genuinely-Australian Australians have no sym-
pathy with the Irish from an Imperial standpoint,
or any other standpoint whatsoever, save the
broad catholic standpoint of the brotherhood of
man. Australians worthy the name sympathise
with equal sympathy with the down-trodden of
humanity the wide world over with the fellaheen
of Egypt, the patriot exiles of Poland, the Nihilist
foemen of the Czar, the Socialist enemies of the
Kaiser, even to tne DalleY-denounced heroes
who followed the standard of the Mahdi. Sir
Patrick, however, was perfectly honest when he
said that the Australian Press was with the Irish
on the question of Home Rule, with some doubt-
ful exceptions, notably the Sydney Morning
Herald. But all this shows the necessity
of the different colonies having adequate
and trustworthy representation in London. Since
the granting of the Constitution the colonial
Governor has year by year become of lsss and less
account. Year by year the office of Agent-
General grows more important, and will one day
merge into that of a grand ambassadt r or plenipo-
tentiary of an Australian Repub ic. And ic is by
their Agents General that the colonies should be
r -presented. Not by sed-appointed and discredited
politic ans at the fag-end of their physical as well
as political existence, but by young and vigorous
men in the hey day of mental power and social
reputation, elected to th ir office by the voice of
the entire people. These, and not the political-
scape goats of unpopular parties should be allowed
to wag a jaw on Australian matters The lunatios
who comd squeeze the far-distilled dribblings of
Australian popular sentiment through the sponge
of Sir Patrick’s brain should now interview that
worthy knight in regard to the social habits of the
Selenites, or obtain his theory concerning the con-
stitution of charcoal.
I A certain Southern attorney has laid himself
open to severe “ censure,” or, perhaps, “ suspend
j sion ” for seven days by the Fall Court. He was
I given a power of attorney by a lady client, who
was going on a visit to Europe. While she was
away h-r legal friend conveyed 2000 acres of land
belonging to her to a client of the name of Smith-,
or something like that; anyhow, there was “no
such a person.” Then he mortgaged the broad
lands for £BOOO to a very real person who had
more money than he knew what to do with. And
Act 111. was that the attorney “ sloped,” and has
not since been heard of. Unless the Victorian
Court would be likely to “ distinguish ” the ca-e
of the two Adelaide attorney*, recently dealt
with, the preseat attorney might as well turn up
like a man, take his “ censure ” or month’s ‘* sus*
pension,” and have done with all anxiety. In
determining the period of suspension, the Court
might give him credit for the time he has already
been in retirement and unable to practise, and
therefore suffered loss of income.
4.
There have been magnificent attempts at lying,
but the “boss” lie is also a Jubilee lie, and it bears
the palm far beyond the reach of all other aspir-
ants. An English paper records the death of a
necessitous girl, aged eighteen, the “unmarried
mother” of a baby of 13 months, who committed
suicide during the recent Jubilee festivities. The
girl very probably found herself scorned, slighted,
her child without a name, both starving, respecta-
bility gone, home gone, mother and father and
friends with curses only and averted heads. On
the other hand she saw a fat jolly German lady,
who had had a fat jolly Gorman time of it, and
had managed to bring up a fat jolly German
family, and to amass ten millions sterling of bright;
jolly English gold —virtuous, no doubt, as many poor
women who, unlike her, have been sorely tempted,
are virtuous. The miserable creature probably
thought this and more, and drowned herself by
leaping into the reservoir at New Milford, in
Wales. But the English paper in question trots
out the following lovely little lie, and the S M H.
repeats it with gusto : “ Sarah Jones had been
brooding over her inability to join in tne Jubilee
festivities,” and so committed suicide, her act re-
sulting also in the death of her illegitimate child.
When we are jilted by our best Sunday girl, and
in the madness of despair and anguish pitch our-
self off South Head, tne S M. H. will prooably give
as a reason a spot of grease on our tea-meeMng
frock-coat.
Strange to say there is at least one spot oa the
face of the earth where the heathen Chinee is
welcome. Northern British Borneo is that particu-
larly peculiar place, and while European miners
and others are prac ically boycotted by means of
strict regulations which require them to possess a
fair capital before they are allowed to land, the
Acting Governor has just offered, by proclama-
tion, grants of land, under easy conditions, to
“ Chinese gardeners, traders, and others.” Each
Chinese man and woman will be given an acre of
land, and each cuild under sixteen years half an
acre, on condition that the favoured parties clear
the land and cultivate it within five years time.
The proposal is to issue 999 years’ leases, under
which the occupiers pay ten cents a year par
acre, in return for wnich they will be
protected from oppression by either their own
countrymen, or by white men and others
These leased lands can be sold, and are only for-
feitable in the event of settlers neglecting to pay
up their rent for three years in succession ; and,
furthermore, a Chinese farmer or gardener can
buy up to five acres at 50 cents an acre. As a
specimen of Britain’s style of colonisation this is
unique, and clearly proves that so long as her own
interests are served the grand old mother country
doesn’t care a fig whether her colonies are peopled
by honest whites or slant eyed lepers.
The anti'Chinese agitation in Queensland is doing
good work. The leaders of the movement are
not quite equal in point of “social standing” to
Sir Alfred Stephen’s ideal of what advocates
of reforms should be; but they are working
vigorously and successfully in a praiseworthy
cause, and that is sufficient. The program me put
before the people is full of “go.” It is proposed
to increase the present poll taS of £3O to £lOO
“as an absolute payment to the consolidated
revenue on the entry of every Chinaman into the
colony by land or sea,’’ payable by the ship wherein
brought over sea ; and further to levy an annual
tax of £lO per head on the yellowskins. Any
Chinaman found without a certificate, according
to the programme, would be run into gaol, and
kept there till the first vessel sailed for
China, and thence departed. By means such as
these the Queenslanders hope to free themselves
to a large extent of the leper agony ; and they
have entered upon the task of securing Parlia-
mentary adoption of their scheme with a fixed
determination not to be baulked by the machina-
tions of capitalists or the representations of
Downing-street flunkies. It behoves the people
of the Southern colonies to be on the alert. If
the Queenslanders carry out their plans, and there
can be little doubt that they will, the Mongolians
at present resident in Queensland will not be slow
to turn their faces across the borders, while those
arriving from China will continue their journey
southward, so as to find a landing and an environ-
ment at a cheaper price. It is not too soon for
the whites of New South Wales and Victoria to
be on the alert with the view of following in the
footsteps of the more public-spirited Northerners.
4.
General Wong Yung Ho told the people of
Stanthorpe (Q.) that formerly China wanted to
have nothing to do with the English, but “ Great
Britain had herself broken down the barrier the
Chinese had erected between themselves and the
outside world,” and the removal of this barrier
was the cause of the Chinese influx of which
Australians complain, and against which they
have enacted restrictive laws. Right, Wong
Yung Ho. Your argument is sound ; but its
teaching to us is, not to remove the poll-tax on
Chinamen, but to cut connection with the Im
perial marauders who are perpetually on the
war-path against the helpless peoples of the globe.
4
The S.M.Heraid is astonished that the late editor
Katkoff should have enjoyed so much liberty in
the l*nd of press censorship and oppression, par
excellence, and is reminded thereby of the saying
that one may steal a horse while another may not
look over the hedge. If the Herald writer looked
into the Moscpw Gazette he would see that
Katkoff's liberty of expression was confined to
slobbering oyer the Czar, and denouncing the
lovers of freedom as creatures of the devil. And
if he looked into the columns of his own paper fie
would see that tne Herald is the Moscow
Gazette of N.S.W. Every despot has a Katkoff,
andtheN.S.W. representatives of the order are
the daily newspaper people whose one unvarying
rule is : “ Support constituted authority, no matter
how constitute V*


The Last of Kurts’ Land Lottery.
The law, which an eminent “ porochial ” authority
long ago declared to be a Hass, has once more
vindicated itself in N.S.W. By a majority of
two judges to one it has been decided that the
conduct of Mr. Solicitor Lewis Levy, who netted
some £1833 by aiding in what Chief Justice
Harley himself declared to be “as gross a case
of deception as ever came before a Criminal
Court,” will be adequately met by a reprimand
and payment of costs, and his employers, who,
according to the same high authority, joined
with him in “a clear conspiracy to defraud
the public,” have every piospect of getting off
scot free. The rich lawyer and the wealthy
tailor have evidently a good show in Aus-
tralia. For the sum of £2OO Messrs. Kurts
became the owners of 200 acres of rocky land in
the far-off KurrajoDg Mountains, and this
proceeded to give away in microscopic blocks by
means of a pretended lottery, which never took
place. There was, in fact, no need of a lottery,
for as a sum of £3 3s. was charged for each con-
veyance, and Messrs. Kurts went shares with
Their lawyer in this amount, they actually re-
ceived £lO 10i. per acre —a protit of 10.10 per cent.
- while Mr. Levy netted £1833 by preparing vir-
tually worthless transfers for unsurveyed allot-
ments which nobody could find, but which were
supposed to be dotted down somewhere in an
unmarked wilderness. This glaring fraud
the Chief Justice mildly denounces as
a trifle, a cunningly - devised scheme to
entrap the unwary, and a clear conspiracy
to defraud the public—in short, as a sort
of “ confidence trick,” which, if perpetrated by a
needy adventurer, would inevitably land him in
gaol. In reply to these accusations, however,
Mr. Levy asserts that he knew nothing of the
swindle which was being perpetrated— in other
words, that he was a mere unprotected lawyer let
loose among designing tailors ; and though it is
proved that, some time after he first began
to take part in this little business, he
was clearly enlightened by the Law In-
stitute as to the nature of his proceed : ngs,
Judges Faucett and Innes lay down on his
behalf the astounding theory that if the public
choose to fall into such a trap they deserve to
suffer for their credulity. The poor dupes who
knew nothing of law are to lose their money be-
cause of their ignorance, and Mr. Levy, the lawyer,
is to keep a large share of it because of his And
judging from the latest rules for the admission of
barristers every effort is being made to prevent
the guileless Levy and others of that iik from
being harassed by the competition of men whose
knowledge might place their ignorance in the
matters of tailors and land at a discount. Students
of law are now, by a rule promulgated this week,
forbidden to engage in any occupation excepting
legal study for the 12 months preceding their final
examination, so that unless the poor man with
It tains can support himself by confidence tricks or
land transactions in the back blocks during that
period he must abandon his pursuit, and leave the
close corporation of the bar exclusively to
the rich. Even the University of Sydney now
endeavours to close its doors to everything but
wealth, and declines to admit to examination
candidates who have not gone through an expen-
sive course of lectures, ignoring altogether the
obvious fact that the poor student who has
qualified himself for a degree without this,
thereby proves the ownership of incalculably
more brains and energy than his rich brother who
just scrambles through with all the assistance
that a highly-paid band of professors can
afford.. In almost every profession intellect, ac-
companied by poverty, must now give way to
money, even if hampered by imbecility or utter
rascality. In conclusion, however, we may
mention that the regulation affecting barristers to
which we have adverted does not act as a hind-
rance to Mr. Lewis Levy’s advancement. If
that practitioner chooses to study for the bar he
can do so without inconvenience on the proceeds
of his transactions in the stony lands of the
Kurrajong Mountains, and while ho is engaged in
this occupation every effort will be made to pre-
vent his claim being jumped t by anybody whose
conscience is a shade more tender as to the means
of making an honest livelihood.
A correspondent of the Sydney Daily Tele-
graph suggests “ the best and noblest way of
celebrating the origin of what must become a
great world power," which is to nationalise the
whole ot the land on which Sydney stands and
rebuild the city “in all ways worthy of her un-
surpassed natural site.” The experience of New
South Wales in State land-resumption is not such
as to induce much confidence in a scheme of this
kind. Wherever Government has resumed land
for “ public purposes," it has had to pay through
i,he nose for it; and beyond all doubt or
question the purchase of the large area of city
property now proposed would lead to the perpetra-
tion of a series of gigantic swindles. At the same
time the scheme is not without claims on public
attention. The inventor argues that the whole
of the site of Sydney, a little over four square
miles, could be purchased and covered with
handsome buildings for a hundred millions ster-
ling, involving an interest charge of £4,000,000
per annum, while he calculates the rents
would yield £7,000,000 per annum, or a
profit of £8,000,000 yearly. If there is
any truth in these ligures the scheme assuredly
merits consideration. £3,000,000 a year is a sim
worthy of being looked after, these times ; and we
don’t see why the public should not bag it if pos-
sible. The Telegraph correspondent suggests
nat the money should be borrowed; but here
plainly he is at fault. Toe British capitalist, who
would have to be appealed to, would look askance
at such a project of land nationalisation as paving
the way for the universal acceptance of the
Georgian theory, and would prefer rather to
lend his money for employment in the
d ‘str notion of human lives, or the main-
tenance of Turk'sh and Egyptian seraglios.
But the business might be financed in the manner
suggested in the case of Irish land, namely, by
paying the present owners in interminable Govern-
ment bonds. That would bring the landlords
up with a round turn—only we are afraid they
would still work swindles by procuring valua-
tions of the kind we are so familiar with in the
City of the Beautiful Harbour.
Tenders have been opened for the erec-
tion of a new Melbourne morgue, to take the
p'.ace of the rat infested den which has been an
eyesore to corpses for years past. The new
morgue is to be a toney sort- of establishment--
nice brick walls, ornamental palings, and water
laid on for the convenience of every body. When
it has been formerly opened by Lady Loch and
the doors are flung open to the deceased public,
there'll be such a lot of suicides as never was.
But one can’t help feeling sorry for the rats at the
doomed establishment, who must so soon be
turned adrift to pick up a precarious living the
best way they can.
BRIEF MENTION.
A tax despised by Abigail—Syntax.
Centennial Hall—Centennial Haul.
The House of David—The Victorian
Assembly.
Our hangman’s name spelt backwards is
very suggestive —“ Draw oh.”
Never seen in a E. News obituary : “ The
deceased was a general favourite.”
Pamphlet—“ Christianity Free to All,”
price 6d. Ad. in a Melbourne weekly.
The solicitor of the Prince of Wales has
been knighted. Lawyers are never very par-
ticular.
Allah be praised ? Freetrade has spared
one manufacturing industry in N.S.W. —penny-a-
lining to wit.
For cool cheek please give the cake to the
Chinkie who, at Maryborough (Q.), paid a £2O fine
with two forged note 3.
A Turk named Sabath has been fined for
Eelling indecent photos, in Adelaide. It is hard
to keep the Sabath holy in Adelaide.
MR. SAMUEL CARMICHAEL.
Editor of the Walgett News.
One day last week in Sydney 57 men
applied for a billet as undertaker’s assistant, and
there was not a single quack doctor in the crowd.
secret of the Queenslanders’ concen-
trated hatred of all things Chinese has at last
been discovered. Cooktown possesses a Chinese
band.
There is an old lady on the Mudgee rail-
way line who obtains her living by making lemon
squash. Her business represents a N.S.W. Free-
trade factory.
“ How to raise light bread ” is the head-
ing of an advertisement in one of the daily papers.
Oae way would be to steal a loaf from a Sydney
suburban bakery.
Haynes, M.L. A., says : “Tt takes three
elections before you can find out a politician to be
a rogue.” Of course there are the usual excep-
tions to l his rule.
Mud. J. Haynes at Bathurst said he had
travelled from Wellington in a goods train and it
caused a good strain upon his nerves. It was the
bast gag in his lecture.
A N.S.W. journal alleges that the young
man who shot himself in a railway carriage near
Bsnalla subsequently coughed uo the bullet. This
is one of the advantages of eating biarding-house
steak.
A wealthy New York merchant rushed
down Broadway the other day cutting his throat
as he ran. Prassure of business, nowadays,
leaves a man little leisure for the social amenities
of life.
There is a rumour to the effect that, in
view of the many collisions at sea, the N S.W.
Marine Board Solomons are about to issue a pro-
clamation ordering all vessels to sail or steam
stern-foremost.
A lot of burglar’s tools were found in a
Melbourne cemetery, the other day. The burglar
is supposed to have died and brought his tools
there in case the heavenly officials might see fit to
bar the door agin him.
A burglar under committal at Hillston
(N.S.W.) gaol made a skeleton-key out of a piece
of wire picked up in the yard, and escaped. He
was a blacksmith by trade. It is a good thing to
learn a trade while you are young.
We have just been reading a Sydney D.T.
paragraph, from which we learn, among other
things, that a Chinese suicide “ retired to his
room,” that “blood was subsequently found on
his bedclothes,” and that he “expired” on Friday.
This is pretty good for the D.T.
From the S M.H. this sublime clipping :
“ LOST, New Zealand War Medal, on Darling Point-
road, outside Salomons, was seen there by milk-
man passing. Finder rewarded. Return to News
Agency, Kushcutter Bay."
“Outside Salomons!” Now, who ever saw a
medal inside Salomons ?
Sir Patrick Jenkins has, it is stated,
now abandoned all hope of getting a Jubilee
baronetcy.
It is said in Bathurst that if a general
election were to take plaie to-morrow that city
would return to its old love, and the sporting
doctor would have to take a back seat.
Sydney D.T. speaks of a parson ably com-
batting the agnostic theories concerning! the
creation. But has the agnostic any ‘ ‘ theories
Does he not simply say he doesn't know ?
Why did they have the “ fizz ” at the
Australian Curb ball in glass jugs with labels
printed on bits of ribban ? Was it because it was
cheap stuff and they were afraid to show' the
bottles ?
Miss Scott, the artist, was married to Mr.
Charles Taj lor, merchant, at Wellington Parade,
East Melbourne, (at the residence of the bride’s
mother), on 19th July. The wedding was a very
quiet one, and the principals left immediately
afterwards by the express train for Adelaide.
The Case of William Roy.
The Bulletin has so far acknowledged subscrip-
tions to the amount of £2B 17s. 9d. received by it
on behalf of William Roy, the soldier who now
lies blind and paralysed in Parramatta Asylum.
As already stated, Roy wears the distinguished
conduct medal, awarded him for his gallant con-
duct at Rorke’s Drift, where, though at the time
an invalid, he rushed through the flames during
the fight to save the sick from the burning hospi-
tal. He subsequently received from the hands of
the Queen, an autograph Bible, and his portrait is
to be seen in the celebrated painting by De Neu-
ville now in the New South Wales National
Gallery. The unfortunate man, who, since his
admission to the wretched asylum that is now his
home, has, according to the report of the gentle-
men appointed to enquire into the management of
the N.S.W. Government charities, been treated
with wanton neglect and cruelty, is in a hopeless
condition of health, and will, while he lingers, be
utterly dependent on the good offices of those who
may wish to make a substantial protest against
the hollow-hearted system which, while it spends
lavishly to commemorate triumphs gained chiefly
at the cost and never for the benefit of the class
from which the common soldier is drawn, cal-
lously permits a brave private to die in misery.
The Bulletin hopes to collect a considerable
sum for Roy, and undertakes to see that he is
directly benefited by its expenditure. The follow-
ing additional donations are now thankfully
acknowledged:—
A. J. Lewis, £1; Giflney, 10i.; Walter Goodwin, 55.;
G A. M., 53 ; Sympathiser (Locomotive D-partment, Gml-
burn, per F. W. M Fadden), £2 ; Alley Sloper, 55.; J. K. I ,
£1 ; J. F. Thom (an Australian), 2s. 6d.
Mr. Samuel Carmichael.
Mr. Samuel Carmichael, editor of the Walgett
(N.S.W.) News, is the son of his father and has
always done his best, as a man, a brother, and a
journalist, to afford the old man reason to be
proud of him. He was born, we believe, in Aus-
tralia, and has grown up with the country. There
is scope at this point for a few remarks on the
subject of the wattle, but we have decided to
leave them out. He—Mr. Carmichael, not the
wattle—has been a journalist for the greater part
of his earthly pilgrimage, and has hung on to the
Archimedean lever in connection with the Walgett
Mail, Brewarrina Hx cress, Nyngan Times, and
Gundagai Herald, and whether he was oiling the
fly-wheel, or flaying his “loathsome contempo-
rary,” or suppressing his “Constant Reader,” he
has always done his level best. He is now en-
gaged in the herculean task of bossing the Wal-
get News, and the attached portrait represents a
man who will be affectionately remembered when
he leaves.
Mr. "William Hawker.
Mr. William Hawker, pan. i rocrietor and whole
editor of the Quiiindi (NS W) Gazette, was
born on the Nulli Mountains, near Rylestone, in
1857, and as he early manifested an antipathy to
the dull and somnolent sheep and the uninterest-
ing bullock, he was destined for the Bar—not the
public-house one but the other. But at the age
of 11 family misfortunes compelled him to aban-
don all hope of joining the Levil’s Brigade, and
consequently many a loafer and liorse-thief whom
his abilities rrvght have kept out of gaol is now in
and is sorry for it. For several years young
Hawker followed the dreary round of pastoral
work and varied the monotony of life
by corresponding for the Press, and then
finding the grass and the wattle were not
what the poets had painted them, he entered a
store at Yarraman, of which he ultimately became
manager. In 1885 however, even the wild ex-
citement of the store palled on him, and he left it
to found the Quirindi Gazette, which soon
became a prosperous country journal. The paper
is now owned by the firm of Hawker and Jeffriess,
but the senior partner retains the literary control
and does his best to keep Quirindi abreast of the
age—a contract which he probably finds to be of a
rather extensive character.
MR. WILLIAM HAWKER,
Editor of the QUIRIND) GAZETTE.
(See page 11.)
The friends of a distinguished litterateur
will deeply regret to hear that this ornament of
his profession has of late been languishing in the
Darlinghurst dungeon for debtors.
The case of Michael Kerrigan, solicitor,
gentlemar, &c., before the N.S.W. courts last
week, presented a few curious' features. One
Gralton had given Kerrigan a sum of money to
invest by lending it on mortgage to a man named
Masterton. Alter a time Gralton asked for the
deed of mortgage, when Kerrigan said he hadn’t
any; that, he had been instructed to lend the
money without security. Tnen a clerk of Kerri
gau’s went to Gralton, and said he had the mort-
gage and would give it up for £lOO. Gralton con-
sulted a policeman of all people, and the sagacious
foorce advised him to give the clerk a cheque for
the £lOO and get the deed, and then stop ? pajment
of the cheq«e ; “ and bedad,” remarked the
foqj-ce as an afterthought, “ we’ll lock him up
besides.” This programme they faithfully carried
through even to locking the man up. Armed
with the mortgage they got Kerrigan struck off
the roll of attorneys, and the clerk, after a brief
investigation, was let out, and advised not to
do it again Legal troubles now loom on all sides
CORRESPONDENCE
Th* Bulletin will return all unsuitable MSS. when the
sadress In specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of such
‘ E L.L One man’s vote is not as good as
another's. The theory that it is may be all very well, but
when it comes to practice, a properly-worked employer-of-
labours vote is of 50 per cent, more value than that of the
ordinary working man. The big squatter, for instance, if
he is a good sort,” takes the whole of his station hands
with him, while the poor little “cocky” has to go alone
Jouch’ (Brighton): Thanks. Pleass send name and ad-
dress. We would write to you....'One of the Party': Good
Isaac Hopkins ’ (Carpentaria): B is right. What the
paragraph obviously meant was that Gaudanr looked
•t? A>.w« k r ”" Wanderer ' : A ver y ancient idea....
, ~ K (Coofctown) : Why not write to Mr. Rattray ?
J'i ?•' if “**£,* ] '■ Wrke t 0 Mr - R - satisfaction!
send to the Chief Commissioner of Victorian Police
Tommy B.’ (Melb.): Just you write to Hop. and ask him
.... Amateur ’(Rockhampton): It seems to be generally
recognised in theatrical circles that he does possess such a
Perhaps next week... .‘Bushman
' IC '** “ aQ nah Lightfoot episode is notorious enough,
and haß often been cited as a cause of the madness of the
apple-dumpling potentate, George 111 'A.B.' (Redfern):
Byaud by -P. Fagan’: Mislaid your letter somehow....
H V.l' (Nyngan): It’s a big order, but we’ll try and wade
through your voluminous screed before the declaration of
Australian Independence —‘Primo’: Now, why do you
copy that miserable lilt of Tom Moore's—’“ Poor dog, he was
faithful and kind to be sure, and constantly loved me altho
was poor" ?....■ M.R.T.’ (Boggy Creek, Vic ): Young man
beware, likewise go to: you can imitate perfectly, but you
can’t write “pootry” worth a cent....‘Democrat’: In
Bulletin "Correspondence,” July lfi, we gave particulars
concerning respective costs of monarchical and republican
governments as exemplified in the cases of America and
England....' Daca’ (Launceston, Tas.): Thanks, very much.
....'Gladys’: No one named Gladys ever wrote poetry
you might manage in time, but everything is against
you; with Thalia and Melpomene Gladys is frequently
a favourite, but the other muses seem to have a
set against her-but don't let that worry you
’Musician’: Your waltz is a dark and Machiavellian mys-
tery to us. We are not ashamed to confess that our ears are
attuned not to mere subcelestial and mundane harmonies
....‘Bunny’ (Ararat, Vic,): No 1 certainly not. There are
greater pests than rabbits, among which may be reckoned
poets who write about them....'The Compounder’: Have
not seen it ‘John Jones’: Will lead carefully ‘R. S
Swanston’: Thanks....' Max’: Will look into the matter.
L.B.’ (Homebush): The choice of Kurnell as a site for the
new abattoirs would be h'ghty gratifying to a syndicate of
land speculators who hold a lease of a large portion of the
estate through which itis sought to induce the Government
to make a line of rail....‘Yankee Bill ‘: We will not only
excuse you writing on both sides; we will excuse you writing
at all ’ T.C.’ (Bondi): There may be a lot of pathos
in the verses you send us, but it is not so apparent as
a bt of other qualities known by less flattering names..
‘ J S.K.’ (Tas.): Held for consideration.E. Leston'
Why not? Leigh Hunt was honoured by imprisonment fo'
styling the Prince Regent “ a fat fop of fifty.” ‘ 450 *
All in good time.... ‘ Alexander Cambridge’: See reply
‘Democrat’in this column....'G.J.T.’ (Randwick): In a
little while....'William Nelson’ (Tilpa) : Will attend....
‘ J.A H.,’ ‘Thomas,’ and' ‘ James H. P.’: Thanks!!!
‘ Sir w-king’jGpptr Dargo), ‘ Guesser’ (Waterfarm), ‘ Sta
tistics, and 'Paddy Perkins’: Received....‘J, R.A.’(Cook
town): Thanks.... 1 J.M.F.’(B.): Please send full address!
‘Ezekiel Htainsbury’ : Never heard of him ‘O.L.’:
Probably as great a “cram” as John Haynes' statement that
Parkes was so hard up in 1885 that he had to try and borrow
£'■' to get his Christmas dinner.... 1 J. Jamieson’ (W'mjtown):
Thanks Subscription st trts at any time. Will send papers
if poisiole... .‘C.W.’ (Newcastle): Write again if letter not
received....' Gnus pro Multis' (Croydon): There is no earthly
reason why a shilling shou'd be charged for The Bulletin
at Croydon. If you can't get it for sixpence, why notsub-
scribedirect?....' U it : Mere chaff. H« is forgiven, but not
fofgotten....‘ Henry Turner' (Bnndarra): Please send us
an address th at will always find you ...‘ Bussy ’: Will
print as much of your letter as is c insistent with keeping
ourselves out of gaol,
Councillor J. W. Fleming, of Brunswick
(Vic ), is said to be the oldest Australian native.
The British Admiralty had to borrow
seven torpedo boats from the German Govern
ment so as to make a decent show at the recent
naval manoeuvres.
The Corporation of Hastings (N.X.) at-
tempted recently to float a loan of £25,000 on the
London market. They got only £lOO, and it is
not known exactly what they did with it.
Wanted very badly. A strict and search-
ing enquiry into all the circumstances attendant
on the appointment, per medium of Mr. Jawbone
Neild, of “experts” to represent N.S.W. at
Adelaide Exhibition.
The Melbourne Metropolitan Gas Company
has just declared a sixteen per cent, dividend,
added a small fortune to the reserve fund, and
carried forward a b'g balance. And the long-
suffering public sit still under all this.
That good colonist, Mr. John Wyndham,
vlgneron, of Dal wood, Maitland, N.S. vV., is dead.
He has been received with acclaim upon the
golden shore-by many a legion of old monks from
Rhenish Germany and Eastern France, for he
made honest wine at Dalwood and never a head-
ache in a dozen of it.
Mr. Leopold Jordan was presented with a
handsome gold watch on Friday last by his
colleagues of the literary staff of the Sydney
Daily Telegraph as a token of their esteem on
the occasion of his departure from Australia. Mr.
Ward, chief editor, who made the presentation,
complimented the recipient on the creditable per-
formance of his duties during his connection with
the journal and the cordial relations between him
and the rest of the literary staff.
South Australia has backed down on her en-
gagement to pay a share of the High Commissioner’s
expenses in New Guinea, whereat John Douglas
is mighty wroth, saying it’s a failure to act up to
“a debt of honour,” and that “the default,
whether recognised by the other colonies or not,
will remain on record as a warning which cannot
be despised.” Douglas is now an Imperial officer,
and speaks from a Downing-street point of view.
The truth is South Australia is merely leading
Australia in thus repudiating responsibility for the
cost of maintaining a meaning>^ 8a protectorate
over a region which is shut agas na t the Australian
people.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal—" Alone in London”. p. 15
Criterion Theatre.—" Pickpocket ”
Opera House—" The Magistrate ’
Alhambra Music Hall —Minstrelsy
Exhibition Building—Roller Skating Rink
lu these days, when a barber h a profes-
sor of hairdressing, and a poultry farmer ranks a
a henologist and eggist, we may be permitted t<
mention that we see no reason why •* Professor ’
AndersoD, now performing at Sydney Gaiety,
should not call himself a professor and a “ Wizai
of the North” if he wants to. The prese
“ Wizard’s ” legerdemain is of an entertain
character, and, though the vanishing lady is no
altogether new, this part of the exhibition ne
fails to bring down the house. We knew a lac
once who vanished in real life, but the circu
stances were noc exactly the same—she did
leave in a basket, after the fashion of Anita,
in a steamer, and she carried with her most c
the furniture, so the case is not one in po:
Bowls of water, quantities of fish, and cattle
pear out of the Professor’s pocket whenever
wants them, and both he and Mrs. Anderson h£
an awkward knack of writing down on a sla
the ideas that are floating in the minds of
audience. Also, they grow the dear old famil
cauliflower in the hats of innocent spectators, anc
can put borrowed or embezzled articles in thei
pockets about a mile off. Business is so good at
Gaiety this week that the man who takes
money is in a constant state of violent perspi
tion.
#* # #
There is a full house every evening a
Sydney Opera House, where Pinero’s “Mag
trate ” flows on as smoothly a 3 gin down a sail
neck. During the last twenty years we ha
gained a great amount of experience and lost
quantity of hair which will never return a
more, and for the greater part of that time w
have adhered firmly to the conviction that t
saddest sight on earth is a Freetrade orphan in
tall bell-topper, suffering from agonies of sickne
on the cold, greeD, foamieg, wobbling sea. t
the “ Magistrate ” has overset this cherished co
viction in one round. The bilious, fatherless Go
denite who served so long as our standard
misery is nowhere in comparisoiyLo a bajdrjusti
of the peace who has been out 111 be
chased over spiked railings bj*pofo3men, dog
coffee-stall-keepers, and loafers, who has g
drunk and lost all his money and got his pan
torn, his eye blackened, and his hat bashed
who has fallen out of a two-storey window on
a hoap of turnips, and who, after shelte
ing all night under a dry arch, only ge
down next morning in time to open the court ant
give his own wife and sister-in-law, together wi
the military godfather of his wife’s only son by
former marriage, seven days without the optio
of a fine for being found in a public house at o
in the morning, aggravated by a savage assau
on the police in the execution of their duty. Anc
when, in addition to all this, the miserable ma
lias been looking for his absent spouse among ti
hospital accidents, lost dogs, and females le:
chargeable on the parish, when his sod , who w
also chased by the police, has not come home a
night, when his butler comes in to ask what 1
meant by giving him tuppence wrapped up :
brown paper with which to buy an urn
brella, and when the Colonel, who is com
mltted to gaol in a moment of mental aberra
lion, is washed—actually washed—by th
authorities, the cup of sorrow is filled to ove
bowing. And on top of all this the beak’s stepson
aged 19, is constantly passed off for 14 by h
admiring mother, and on the strength of this
ladies of spotless reputation take him on thei
knees and kiss him and.give him lollies, under th
impression that he is a harmless little child, an
when his real age is discovered, it is necessary t
ship him off to Canada to prevent society bein
turned upside down. The “Magistrate” is ru
by an unusually strong cast. Mr. Anson make
just the sort of beak that the present writer woulc
yearn for if he were run in under distressing cir
cumstances, and Mr. Alfred Maltby, as his col
league, an equally fuzzy character with a dodderin
tendency to benevolence, is a brilliant actor witl
a part that is miles too small for him. Mr. Han
Phillips is a nice little boy, and regarding Mr
Titheradge it is only needful to say that he is th
same Titheradge as of old. As he looks quite
clean it is difficult to guess why the police though
u noc( : 9Bai T to wash him. Lastly, Miss Jenny
Watt Tanner, whom we adore, broke her previou
record all to smithereens, and Miss Emma Fische
and Messrs. Forbes and Arrowsmilh were a sue
cess throughout. “ A Night Off” is announced foi
next Saturday.
*# * *
Signor Verdi’s Opera Company closec
their season at Sydney Gaiety on Saturday night
their last performance being a sanguinary struggle
with the “ Bohemian Girl,” in which the girl goi
the worst of it. Signor Verdi and Miss Mina
Pischer both appeared to be weighed down by
heir depressing surroundings, aad the rest of the
company looked melancholy and seemed as ii
about to be interred at the expense of the parish.
By ten o’clock the interior had been pretty well
belted out of the once cherished opera, and the
audience got home in time to put out the milk-
tog and get to bed at-a reasonable hour.
4L .Af.
TP T W
If someone will kindly hold us up for a
minute while we mention that the “ Pickpocket"
is still running to excellent houses at Sydney
Criterion we will feel obliged. Comedy is at
present uppermost in Sydney, and in these days,
when a man wants something light and entertain-
HH* keep him from dwelling too much on the
high price of coals, and the citizens’ return ball to
Rile y> an< * th o way Mr. Levy got out of
he Kurts’ land lottery row, this kind of entertain-
®ent is doubly acceptable.
## # #
Brimful of curiosity and expectancy, we
‘ to the other evening to hear Phil Robinson
Pin his yarn as to how things happen and are
managed “on the warpath,-’ Wo had two good
and sufficient reasons for entertaining a deep in
terest in this chronicler of the glorious deeds of
British arms in various parts of the globe : firstly,
because he &is “the acknowledged historian” ot
the famous N.S.W, Contingent; and, secondly,
because of his recent less at Scott’s Hotel, Mel-
bourne, of a cash-box containing notes and gold to
the value of £2O. The latter reason was the more
potent, for the phenomenon of any pressman—
even a War Correspondent—beirg able to leave
sundry livers and a handful of gold lying about
in his bedroom, or anywhe-e else, seemed
peculiar, and indicative of remarkable capacity on
the leser's part for a lengthened and brilliant
career in the show business. No really great
actress or singer has been without her losses of
priceless diamonds, and even second-rate and
quite poor actors and their “tickers”
have a tendency to part. There was
to our mind, therefore, - something es-
sentially stagey in Phii’s little misfortune,
whKj put us on the tiptoe of expectation to see
and hear him. Jf we might be allowed to make a
suggestion, however, we would recommend the
hero of innumerable hair-breadth not to
lose any more mean and sordid ca-h, but to get
robbed next time of the diamond-hilted sword
presented to him by the Great Mogul of, say,
Blowcumpuffistan as a reward for his heroic con-
. duct at the battle of Ali Neverkil). That would
fetch ” the public to a degree as compared with
which the effect of losing a score of pounds may
be regarded as far below zero.
* * *
But perhaps the episode mentioned excited
too much anticipation of dexterity in the art of
picturing in words the varied incidents of glorious
war. Anyhow, we were not quite pleased with
Phil. His account of the way in which war cor-
respondents are selected by the London News-
papers is a betrayal of confidence —an unpardon
able offence in either a pressman or showman.
The member of the staff chosen to represent a great
London journal in a war abroad, he said, was
the one of least use at home, and his chief
qualification consi-ted in a fixed determination
not to run Ihe risk of being killed, for a dead war
correspondent is of no value to the paper that ( m-
ploys him. This may be true enough, but, surly
Phil. Robinson ought not to have disclosed the
secret. Porbes and Sala were more prudent. The
%$ n£ Stt
/ «"£ Huitff Cof
fi 1 c, ur r."
former especially led bis hearers to believe that
war correspondent was selected on account of hi
being able to ride a knocked-up, grass-fed horse
across a continent occupied by the enemy in a few
hours, and escape with his despatches, though
myriads of hostile soldiery are operating agains
him with Gatlings and waddies all along the
route. Bat Phil. Robinson says honestly the
chief aim of the war corn spondent is to
ke->p out of danger—true, no doubt, bu
rather distinctive of the romance popula:
belief has thrown around the office. How
ever, Robinson appears to have been quite
close enough to bullets, and was once jammed in
a narrow pass with three cannon balls, with
scarcely room for i i her of the four to pass the
others without coming into violent* contact. Anc
he tells some wonderful stories not mentioned in
any official dispatches of deeds of valour, from
the theatre" whereof it would seem he himself was
not far distant. His Sydney audiences have been
quite too utterly sympathetic. All the warriors
in the community have attended, and cheered his
glowing descriptions of the cutting of dusky
jugulars, till they were hoarse, and laughed at his
little quips and cranks while the tears ran down the
furrows of their scars. At the Temperance Hall he
struck a chord that found an echo in one military
breast. He said to the Conimander-in-Chief of an
army the war correspondent was simply a nuisance,
whereupon our Commander-in-Chief spoke out in
sonorous tones, saying “Hear, hear!” The houses
have been just about good enough to induce the
hope that the dashirg Phil has recouped his
Melbourne loss, and in any case he certainly has
the satisfaction of knowing that his hearers de-
rived what they considered their money’s worth
from his chatty discourse. Mr. Phil is evidently
attached t'o the ImperialisiDg brigade which has
of late been walking over our devoted land He is
a full-blooded Tory, with a thick tongue and a thin
voice. He adores Royalty, worships the aris-
tocracy, and revels in epauleted slaughter. He is
a pleasant gentleman who would appear to much
better advantage in the drawing-room—talking
confidentially to one gal at a time in a dimly-
lighted corner (a g»1 who, like Desdemona, “ loved
him for the dangers he had passed ”)—than on the
public lecture platform. Ho much is this the case,
and so keenly is the fact appreciated by the amuse-
ment-loving public, that nobody wonders at his
having suddenly been recalled to the bosom o f
the Abraham (or is it the Levy ?) who runs
the London Daily Telegraph. Mr. Robinson
has bad a really good time in Sydney where he has
been entertained by all sorts of people and clubs.
## * *
A very successful amateur dramatic per
formance in aid of the Goodenough Naval Horn
was given at the New Masonic Hall, Sydney, las
week, and as the performers basked in the gubei
natorial smile—and the gubernatorial yawn, fo
the programme was unconscionably long—th
results were very satisfactory. The show com
menced with a sketch called “ Ruth’s Romance
which was complicated by allusions to what was
freely described as an—ahem !—sheolised baby, the
principal characters being taken by Mrs. Lovelace
and Messrs. Stupart and Hutton. Following this
came a two-act drama, ‘His Last Victory,” in
which Mrs. Frisby and Messrs. Orr, Hutton
Westmacott, and Savage took the leading parts
Messrs. Dampier, Leston, Renno, and Tischbauer
also assisted in various ways, and considering
that the ordinary Sydney amateur generally
leaves behind the impression that he was reared
in an incubator, the performance must be de-
scribed as very far above the average.
#* # #
“A Sea of Ice,” at Sydney Royal Stan-
dard, is a foggy conundrum standing on its head,
and professes to have been written by two men
whose names don’t sound familiar. Its chief
peculiarity is that nothing it contains ever hap-
pened, or ever could have happened, or would
have interested anybody in the slightest if it
happened several times over, and the acts are
strung together anyhow or nohow. By the time
the last scene comes on people have ceased to
wonder why there should be ice in the
Mexican Gulf, and have quite forgotten
the original cireumstanco on which the
play is supposed to hang, and don’t even
know if it was a circumstance at all—or a
wheelbarrow. The scenery was good and so was
Mr. Dampier as Carlos, and but we won’t pur-
sue a painful subject any further,
## # #
The first performance of “ Dick ” at Mel-
bourne Opera Home was a dreary disappointment
to the crowd which roliei up in. expectati n of
another “ Little Jack Sheppard,” It may be
taken for granted that Brough and Boucicault
have done the best they could for “ Dick, 1 * seeing
that their musical major-domo, Mr. F. Stanislaus,
conducted the opera on its first, production in
London. That it attained some degree of success
in the old country is a powerful argument against
Imperial Federation. The librettist and com-
poser of “Dick”—Messrs. Alfred Murray and
Edward Jakobowski—appear to be about equally
responsible for the t rouble. The story is a vapid
varsation of the old Whittington legend and the
music is thin but ambitious-like a young poet.
Uncatcby waltz airs, all of a family, predominate,
whi'e one passable duet was distinctly suggested
by “ Aid me, O ! Cupid,” from “
Npira. In a general way, though, Jabobowski is
sufficiently original to be beyond the compass of
comic opera voices, and quite one too many for
the fair ladies of the chorus. At one point
of the proceedings these dear little crea-
tures were so like the cats on the
tiles that we almost found it in our heart to
throw a boot at them. Miss Fanoy Kobina made
Dick the pleasantest feature of the show, far and
away. She looked sweet, danced well, and
tackled the music throughout In all respects but
the latter Miss Emma Temple was angelic, as
usual, and the ladies all round appeared to more
advantage than their natural enemies—the men.
The festive Royce scored occasionally, but the
wiry Ward was wilfully wasted in a poor part.
Manager Ward appeared to be nervous and oft of
sorts,- perhaps because another performer was
palpably suffering from c.lir. If the opera is
smartly gagged and salted with two or three
fetching soDgs it may hold out sufficiently long to
admit of much-needed rehearsals. In its primi-
tive state,. “ Dick” couldn’t exist for more than a
fortnight inthese parts, “ London success ”, thrown
in. A lot of money has been spent on scenery and
maidens, who came out strongest in a Moorish
ballet and Nautch dance. This is not very
nautchay, bat decidedly nice.
AL AA,
*7v* 'Tv* *7\* 'Jr
On the same evening (Saturday) there was
a good house at the Bijou to interview Mr.
Wybert Fosco Reave and his “ Woman in White.”
Minor parts were fairly well filled, and Fosco
knocked them as of yore. A certain auapicion of
genius which always hovers round Mr. Reeve’s
style developes into solid certainty when ho
breaks out m his part of Count Fosco. At the
Royal there was not much of a rush to see ‘’Rip
Aan Wmkle and the “Fool of the Family,” but
he Inumvirato found comfort and joy in redact-
ing that Princess Ida” continues to thrive
their other place of business.
## # #
One of L. L. Smith’s bloodhounds e
ceeded stage directions at Melbourne Alexandr
last week. The wicked animal became hung
in the middle of the ice “ derioomong ” ant
attempted to satisfy the cravings of the inn
dawg by going straight out for Mr. Fordo th
, lawyer. And now Forde refuses to pu'rsm
the fugitive Eliza until the management ha
armed him with a leg of mutton and soin
BO plnc “'. L ’ he “ Pliick ”is for the dawg, donche
see. Ihis chapter of horrors would be incomple
unless we mentioned that the gas suddenly wen
out at fat. George’s Hall and left the Coghills
Egyptian darkness. Business has been irnmens
since this catastrophe. The Melbourne Angelin
8a j B .’. ‘ idwin ’ tal^ e me t 0 hear the Minstrel
and —this in a melting whisper—“ porhaps there’!
be more water in the gas pipes.” It is pleasant t
see the girls stealing shy glances at the chan do
her, waiting to be so frightened.
#* # #
The strange froaks indulged in by th
•Sydney IJ.T. were glaringly instanced in its trea
ment of the amateurs who played last week in aid*
of the Goodenough Royal Naval Homo. On I t
morning following, the dramai ic critic of the D I
was complimentary- exceedingly so—to the con
pany, and wrote the show down “ a full and le d
timate success ” ; on Saturday morning, in th
gush-and-bonnet column, they were briefly but i
a motherly manner, palled on the back; why
then, on the same day, in the most self-contrail u.
tory fashion, doos a scathing article on a]
amateurs appear in the most conspicuous nlac i i
the paper ?
*# # #
Ihe Sydney Secularists are about to biuii
a hall. At the first cal I one enthusiast plankw
down £lOOO, two others subscribed £5OO each, and
not a lew followed with their modc3t fifties
Vorily and indeed the Ravil is’rich, and can alibi '
to smile at the Anglican oollection-plalc.
## # *
Mrs. Emery Clould, the portly but rat Ip r
fascinating widow of the late I)r. Emory Gould
(who was once a honncopathic light in Melbourne
and who died at Wollougong a few yearn ago) has
of late boon very successful as a vocalist in
Paris.
*# * #
John Hennings, scene-painter and ><l
fellow, tried very hard the othor day to hi i >.
cused from sorving as a juror in Melbourne. But
•Judge Holroyd was adamant. John wauled to
paint the scenery for tho now opera, “ Erwinm
shortly to bo produced at the Princess’s ; but Id's
Honor, who seldom visits a theatre said the opera
coutil wait. It is said that Judge (JopD onco dis
charged J. R. Grovillo from attendance at tlio
Lounty Court, on the ground that nobody from
bis Honor himself down to old Daddy Lloyd, the
crier, could look at him and remain serious
* #" # *
Little Elsie Hall, the latest Victorian
musical prodigy, is to bo taken in hand by tho
artistic public and sent to foreign parts to pursue
hor pianoforte studies. A dramatiC and musical
entertainment is to bo given next week in aid of
the object. Mrs. L. L, Lewis, who, a quarter of
a century ago, was, as Miss Rosa Dunn, a popular
actress, is to re-appear in public on the occasion
as Nan the Good-for-Nothing. The exquisite J.
A. Levey is billed for the performance, and
Colonel Brownrigg is to doff his “ regimentals ”
for the sock and buskin.
## # #
Mr. John Solomon, lessee of the Alex-
andra Theatre, Melbourne, is one of the happiest
men in Australia at the present time. Ho was
brought before the Bench the other day accl fined
“half-a-jimmy ” for having his house over-
crowded. Only a week or two since he would
almost have paid that much a dozen to tho lame,
and the halt, and the blind to go in and pretend
to be an audience.
## # #
Our Adelaide correspondent writes that
Simonsen’s Italians are still warbling at the local
Royal, but the public show signs of being already
tired of foreign opera ‘‘ I Promessi Sposi ” was a
great success, and the principals were onthu
siastically received.
## # *
Minnie Palmer hopes to return to N. Z ,
and perhaps Australia, in a year’s time-
## # *
Carrie Swain’s management worked the
mighty engine of the law to advertise their show
in Melbourne lately. They got themselves sum-
moned for overcrowding, and then published the
indictment in the “Amusements” column of the
dailies. jfa*
igfr ** * *
_ A well-known comedian, at present star-
ring N.Q., has got himself into a legal tus3le with
a Northern editor. When presented with his
printing and advertising account by the newspaper
man just before the steamer left, he repudiated
the obligation to square it. The comedian alleged
that he possessed a copyright over a certain
comedy which had recently been played by au
amateur company, of which the newspaper man
was a member, and he therefore claimed that tho
fees due to him should be regarded as a contra,
account to the printing bill, to the matter stand::
until settled by tho law, or the comedian, who, by
the way, is now playing lower down. The editor
has since bought a new meat-axe, which lie
sharpens every day in expectation of the arrival
of anchor theatrical company.
*# # #
“Professor” Hyland has been riding
wild bullocks at Bourke, N.S.W. We thought so.
Some of the bullocks at our boarding-house have
evidently been ridden to death by Hyland.
#..# # #
MrsgVLeonora Brahani is bringing her
Duncan Young) along with her to
Melbourne. Which reminds us that Minnie
Palmer brought her old man along too, and he
didn’t seem to matter much. Acknowledged
husbands seem to be getting quite i igueur in the
profession. Is it a good or a bad sign ?
## # #
It is related that when Monsieur Poussard,
the violinist, was asked what he thought of a cer-
tain rather clever amateur violinist, he replied ;
j ’oe eez vc-ra ni-ce, ve-ra ni-ice ; but on zc pub-lock
plat-form—a-ah, veil ’OO ecz not at 'o-omc l'{
ACTORS’ AMOURS
(AN EPIGRAM.)
Roscius makes love on the stage
In a manner distracting and killing,
With the girls he becomes quite the rage,
To be loved by him they are all willing.
One hooks him. At length they are wed,
But smoothly does not run Love’s course,
And one day in the papers ’tis read
Mrs. R. has sued for a divorce.
Girls, carefully look ere you leap,
Or with actors in wedlock engage, .
Though they pile up their love in a heap,
'Tis the sort that they make on the stage.


Pepper
and
Salt
Two book-agents called recently on a N.Z.
farmer at the same time, and under the circum-
stances felt it their bounden duty to effect a sale.
They looked up the hay and cattle raiser and com-
menced to talk. One talked, then the other
talked, and then both talked simultaneously,
until the farmer was puzzled which of them had
the better book. At last he invited them out to
the barn, and. as they were both middle-weights,
offered to make a sale with the man who would
lick the other. The hook-fiends agreed, whipped
off their coats, and went at it. They upset a can
of milk, smashed in the granary door, broke the
hind spring of the family buggy, and frightened a
bull-calf into fits during the set-to, until as the
afternoon sttnshine faded into the shadowy eve,
the farmer, who had climbed into a hay-loft for
safety, called down to them: “ For the love of
heaven, gentlemen, put my name down for the
two books. It is a dead heat.”
* * *
Messrs. Morris and Son, undertakers of
Wellington (N.Z.), have resurrected a Chinaman
who has been dead and gone several years,
and he now lies nailed up securely in a zinc-lined
case on the firm’s premises ready for export to
Leper Land per first steamer. Messrs. Morris and
Son may think when they have snipped him off
that ihey have done with tnis return ected party
for good, but in this the? will be making a jolly
big mist ake. That heathen Chinee to a dead cer-
tainty will come back to the colony next year in
better health than ever. He will show his papers
at the Customs and enter duty free, and then
start an opposition coffin factory, go in for funeral
reform on a strictly cash basis.
* * *
We clip the following modest announce-
ment from the Melbourne Age It is one of the
creamiest things we have seen for a loDg time :
“ A young gentleman, gifted writer, desires en-
gagement article writer or travelling correspond-
ent for good journal, daily, weekly; salary no
particular object.” We would like to point out to
this young gentleman what a foolish young gentle-
man he is to waste his talents in this half-barbar-
ous and wholly-uncultured country instead of
going straight to London and getting an immediate
engagement on the Times. Anybody who can
write a decent essay on the Gohanna or the Wom-
bat, with not too many mistakes of spelling in it,
will be received with wild enthusiasm in any
newspaper office in London. The astute editors
of the old country perceive at a glance that a
young gentleman who can write such an es?ay is
able ro write »bout anything, and >hey give him
a couple of thousand pounds a year and send him
off to interview the Grand Lama or extract secret
information from Bismarck almost immediately.
We would like now if that young gentleman who
is the cause of this ro&ned irony we have just
been indulging in, would let us know who
told him he was a “ gifted writer.” Was it his
mother, or his sisters, or, Y aply, his aunt ? And
what was it that caused them to call him such a
thing 1 Did he write a letter to the local paper
telling the Town Council that it should be
ashamed of itself for not having Buggins street
properly drained, or, worse still, was it the old
story—a piece of “ poetry ” about the Jubilee
which the editor published one day when there
were too many blue spiders and crimson cock-
roaches crawling around him to bo particularly
cru ical ? Anyhow, that young gentleman is
doomed. The gods will not love him, and yet he
will die young. A person who proposes to start a
literary career by calling himself a “ gifted
writer” generally o-'Ciltates for a few wretched
years between the wharf boiier and the lock-up,
and finally surrenders his gifted ghost in a gutter.
There is nothing very bright or airy in these re-
marks, but they possess one rare quality—-they
are true,
* * *
Mr. Carter, M.L.A., and ex-Mayor of
Melbourne, is growing more desperately humorous
every day. The Criminal Law Amendment Act
was discussed in the House a little while ago.
This was Mr. Carters contribution to the discus-
sion :—“First offenders ought not to be committed
to prison, and this rule should not apply alone to
persons under 21. Surely a man of mature years
convicted for a first offence deserved more con-
deration, because he had resisted temptation eo
long. A whipping would often do more good than
a term of imprisonment.” Just so. Mr. Carter
his a great head. How does this read : “Abra-
ham Mulligan, 80 years of age, was brought be-
fore the City Court charged with being found
sleeping on a doorstep. As this wa3 his first
offence, accused was let off lightly with two-
dozen lashes ” How would Mr. Carter like to be
flogged if he were found breaking the law for the
first time ?
* * *
There was a slight disturbance in one of
the head offices of the Victorian Railway Depart-
ment one day last week, consequent upon the rude
intrusion of a burly unempl yed in working
boots, who looked strong enough to thump the
whole working staff of the office into tan and film,
and then kick down the house to hide his crime.
He said he wanted to see Mr. Speight, and sat
town with the evident i t°ntion of seeing Mr.
Sp-ight in speight of all obstacles He was tMd
that the commissioner was as inaccessible to ordi-
nary callers as the Czar of Russia, The unem-
ployed persisted, however. He said he had busi-
ness of weighty import to discuss with the boss,
and was bound to see him. The official dudes
argued with the intruder, and after much palaver
induced him to revehl the weighty business which
burdened bis soul. “ Well,” explained the out-of-
graft, “ it’s to settle a hot wot I’ve got on with a
cove about the biggest station in England.” The
A BIT OF NATURAL HISTORY.
Mr. Melchisedech (formerly of Warsaw, now of the Royal Oriental Loan and Dis-
count Co., Limited, capital £1,000,000, head office, Lombard street, advances made
with the utmost secrecy) stands with Melchisedech junior gaping with wonder at the
terrible beak of that new parrot in the Zoo.
working staff breathed and said well it was
d d ! Then it slid off its perches, and called
in the engine cleaners and stokers, and the burly-
man was spun out. Now he wants to know what
the Hades a commissioner is paid for, anyhow.
* * *
Judging from the following story the
weather down (N S.W.) way would ap-
pear to be a trifle chilly just at present. A few
nights ago Mr. J unes Pattinson, manager of the
Kiandra Gold-mining Co , had occasion to go out
to look after the hydraulic apparatus of the mine
In shifting the nozzle, which was allowed to play
to keep the race, clear of snow. Mr. Pattinson be
came drenched with spray, but having finished
the job, wh.ch occupied about ten minutes, here-
turned to his home a veritable pillar of ice, and
as he could neither sit down nor remove his
clothes, Mrs. Pa'tinson had to pile on fresh fuel
and thaw him before the fire. After that we
don’t feel quite so sceptic il touching the story of
Mrs. Lot and the pillar ol salt.
From the Citizen, Sydney, Saturday,
April 10th, 1847 .
“IVORY AND BONE-TOY WAREHOUSE,
“ 25 Hi nter-street
“Billiard and Bagatelle Balls, Chessmen, Pope
Joan and Backgammon Boards, Life Preservers,
Spirit Flasks, Children’s Rattles, Indiarubber and
Ivory Gum rings. See, &e., together with a
variety of Fancy Articles, and an assortment of
Toys, at
“HENRY PARKES,
“ Ivory Bone-Toy Manufacturer,
“ 25 Hunter-street.”
Poor old gospel-ruled Geelong-whicb
should have become the capital instead nf the
laughingstock of Victoria—is fallinginto the hands
of the Philistines The Barwon woollen mill, esta-
blished at a cost of £3O 000, has been bought for
£BOOO. The property would be dirt-cheap any-
where but at Geelong, and if the mill could be
worked by prayer-oower it might turn out.
enough doth to supply the universe. No amount
of Philistine enterprise can make headway against
the stolid obstruction of the blessed terewth. They
may send down regiment s of rollicking rams from
Ballarat to put new blood into the mill, but the
new blood will slowly stagnate. Those converted
rams will join the Harmy. The terewth will
prevail.
THE GREAT FRENCH DUEL.
“ Zhool” Ferry said one day
Hard things of General Boulang hay.
General Boulang.v/tap, red-hot,
Invited him out to be shot.
“ Zhool ” accepted. Pale with flight
France awaited the grifti fight.
Then the General up and swore
He wbuld wade in Ferry’s gore.
And to make this sit re as Fate
They should duel We-a-U te
With—he sneered six deadly sneers—
Pistols at each other’s ears.
But his seconds, greatly shocked,
Said the duel must be blocked
Or they might each other hurt—
Why not fight it with a squirt ?
Ferry’s seconds answered gay
Those of General Boulangi7(ay.
SayiDg Honour, however stiff.
Would be vindicated if
Both would at each other pot—
Out of range of pistol-shot.
“ Zhool’s ” eyes with emotion blinked
And the General slowly winked.
Thus by Providential chance
Two great men are left to France.
This is all about the fray—
And it isn’t much to say.
Both go now upon their way
Stiff with glory—hip hooray 1 —
Fierce Ferry and bold Boulang.-rftay.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Lady Parkes’ Christian name is Clarinda.
Mayor Riley is not made a K.C. M.G. be-
cause he ought to have been.
George C >llins Levey has been hobnobbing
with President Grevy. How •). J. Casey must
gnash his teeth !
The late Very Rev. Monsignor Fynes, of
Parnell, N.Z , left £lO 000 worth of property. Of
such is the New Jerusalem.
General Wung Ho says that only the
worst of the Chinese come to Australia. This is
rough on dear old Quong Tart.
The accomplished Editor Windsor, of the
Age has written a book, and yet he allows the
word “ loaned ” to appear in his paper.
After all, thebe’s nothing in a name. A
man named Sykes has distinguished himself in
Me bourne by capturing a gang of burglars.
“ The evils that men do live after them,”
A lot of healthy thistles grow on the grave of the
old Scotchman who introduced them to N. S.W.
Dr. Hearn, the distinguished Constitu-
tional lawyer and archaeologist of the Melbourne
University, is suffering from a severe attack of
bronchitip.
President Cleveland’s Jubilee message of
congratulation to her Gracious was a fairly whole-
some production. It commenced, “Great and
Good Friend.”
What small fish they all are when they
get to London ! A daily of that foggy city spoke
of Genevieve Ward the other day as “Miss G.
Ward.” O, horror!
Lady Constance Howard, who is in mone-
tary troubles, deposed in court the other day that
she had published four novels and had got for
them in all only £2O.
Mr. J. C. Hutton, the Charters Towefs
quartz mill owner to whom a Melbourne jury
awarded £2OOO damages for a tram-car accident,
was carried into court on a stretcher.
A London paper irreverently describes the
Prince of Wales as “ a fat ltt'le bald man in red,”
and says that when his horse trotted he looked like
“a barrel of beer in an earthquake.”
The ugly Jubilee coinage was designed
by the Queen. Her Grac'ous apparently wants
to set her subiects against the love of gold and to
monopolise the “yellowboys” herself.
The now celebrated Dr. M‘Glynn is
described as one of the greatest orators of the day.
Some of his recent speeches have ranked him as a
rhetorician second only to Clay and Webster.
Mr. Archibald Forsyth, ex-M.L.A. for
South Sydney, has been left £7OOO by Captain J.
R Roberts, of Auckland, who died the other day
Mr, Forsyth was a friend in need to deceased.
Judge Quinlan said at the VRC, annual
meeting that “ he was a poor hand at figures.”
And yet in that well-fitting, tightly-buttoned,
royal blue frock coat he looks simply beautiful.
Parkes has modestly offered to present a
half-ton bust of himself to the people of Parkes,
N.S. W. Tom Garrett’s constituents will now
a bigger bust of Tom if he has one to spare.
Thomas Chevalier Robinson, at one time a
Captain in the 96th Regiment and of late a news-
paper runner, died in the streets of Dunedin (K Z )
recently. How sleep the brave who sink to rest l
Sir John Pope Hennessy is sueing the
Times for £20,000 libel damages Hennessy is an
awful enemy. He has evidently long been an
enemy to the Times, The accursed drink ugain i
Bendigo Mac, M.L A., says that “ ? a
l)L ViCO'ii ne has travelled the length and
breadth of England, and from
tion he can say that Australians are
end of the world.”
Francis Ormond, M L.C. of Baffi
Marquis of Ormonde, or sir Francis'(Me»-
of .he future- the dor or of CoM e,
University) and of the Wo o v( jney-
Melb . is at present on a visit to i
Phil. Robinson rode f B J
£1 '-'OO to send particulars of the & jielbo®
death to his paper. _ a . f little bill of
Hkkalo reporter sending in to initial'
on a Thursday for Jim Midd thusU
«-v rp riin-S ** rtti
A recent ad. in Sydney • go tup rf
“ The Queen’s picture*, be .^S 8 life " LJ
ing every incident in Hei - gera ti<M>-„
incident' is. we fear, an : rfcnJS ciDg a^
the show mdst indeed be an _ deary nU °"
It is stated tha the ’'“jjV
friend the sawny i Vince A - yueen '
Ireland recently to represo andcuff- . ;» IJ
cause of his amount of c 0 d coll ar
are so accustomed to cuffing
know. • of the
The foundation-stone w tW** V
Palace library, London, was | f
the Belgians. We won copy 0 f
posited bonealh the sfcon , ■ tor y of d* e
Mall Gazette with the his ,
Tribute ” ? . . ~ jjr. to
That very talented scu P c ’ om inis
Ball, of Melbourne, hai n A Va iiace & ®ill *
execute a colossal statue s otit ish he ° r oad> o
Botanical Gardens. The ?i; n g the
depicted in full armour, watc
the English army. n-lar F* 8
An old New %eal«d *s*«*#*
found drowned. The , lo^ , t 0 point'®
no reason could he assign And
suicide on the settlers P ' our , it * ,~
wild shriek of sarcastic $ §.
deceased was the father 0- J{r. 's»>
The executors of %"„k "'ft
Parkes, superintendent of Win^f
lasia, who was killed in yictom*®
collision, have served . mpjinß
Commissioners with a wr e j V irg £ :io 1
ages. Mr. Parkes was rece * jfelt/
There is an undertaker
the Victorian Melvllto-w®® «
on the Bench with rehg lo tbe cle rk „ n ef aS L
he went to W. H.
Court, and in his most sente d (1
him for “the book where he a j
law." , 1v eje cte
Lord Lucan, who tfdgUg
miserable familiesfrom b ' q ' t)one ibV lor „„ r W 3l /
the same gallant officer re P a pe $ ,
at Balaclava. Had he not®*, reC e J d l*
have been shot, but 8,8 1 , B he v?aS J
ditiooal title. In those ( 1 1 a efl c^
‘ Look»on. ” fhe iffiP 0 ! *
W. A. Southwoll, . fc n h n e y.tf-GjV V
secretary of the Victo ’ I ]ene s s r ’ r ' !,d tl^(#
short of Marsh, his Pf ' 0 f me» a .
“go," vim, or toowleWf Sw» »>■*’
distinguished Marsh. b eg ‘n« “ l }
fledged clergyman, ana » j jU
diocese of Melbourne. W ® fulf',t
SirW. J. Clarke,
Victorian Upper House b 9 con’P r 8 f /
for persons awaiting tria ,
in the same way as convf o„e.
very touching. 11 s a PW » for th« , m
Clarke work a httle ha ( . st>‘%
scoops in as income eve J? _ j y tJj {f
C. F. Somerton,
(commercial) light of < ® pa l * 0 ” 8 ! A,
it got into the nunda .°/ 1k(! r, g ol> '
and sharebroaing. vv 18
his editor and compam of _ , j|j)
land jobbing. Purse, th®' tb e
is also scattered. Andth« 8 d J ,
The Mayor of Oaß
hit upon a scheme for be- . c f®" \mt
through the ages tbat en t
stick up a marble inonU ‘ an ie a ” d r ing ,ltS mJP . :
inscribed with his „ nthef \ $
other councillors. _ , h e ° g 0 j uC ion u , t os f,
carried their mayor s r h id p,
The Bank of
%£
but now that genial nu e „ to n d
in health that he has not ,
for over six mouths- UJ t 2,
lieaded the poll on A ]J, 0 .
b “ dr ' J w F«<.
W. H Archer V»f4
bourne, Knights of gft y,
beer-makers—that 19 tiro C» sd d (if^
prietors of the remune_ a tb e -pet $ I
How do they square lSl d e . %f n Am
Leo is organising a e^e ri # |
and has shut up f- be f 1
monks f /ir . P oib ?r ' c lll ' 1 pa f irpa I
Sir Alfred 'V j
practice of medicine . coW-, s' -rP .if l ’
to medical clair voy» yo« d ,y j
comes to you, what foj 0 1
.ant to get at t
decline to tell. ,\ . h(JI . wh° j|«/|
Sir Alfred has a bi'O x. of .ilf V |
healing business. nr ,nd eb ' ffl lf 1 ,J
The L »ndon g I
bourne Akgus fa^ 9 liir ht j*. f/, ibiu 1
intoxicated with de .. bi 3 b I
Lome was thrown W lUf 0 ' , J
sho w. Says the ABG |
intense delight of ~ j 0 c ol,lp ef r ■ ,l)b J i
nant at having to ru & yoh lo ' 'V, 1
not royal and wean g 0 d J # 1
Be eliU, O earth B I
thereof, give e ftr j .„ e OoDJa0 oD Ja ot p ,o( ! J»>jß
Duncan Gillies got t b posse ( i> I
aud disorderly po rB ’ (Jt^y a I
ful means of d ing °° U « ■
whole blooming, hleeo s Jc J M
means of supportf ' Ajm
after all. Wc mak lik 9 !■! V 9
both parties. i ca b . „ w (t/fA-H
A man with 1
onto? arSeniHQU^
other day aud wn> vvJ f, ■
tionary’s near^ lC ' | V ot f o° I
With a lightning $ 0 d*
nearest constaoh h pitH 1 u Jjß
ejected at once. lb |i e 01l J
outside tbe court; $ Mam
insure his Ihe- 0 i tb „ 0
A fine ’oronze J^ ote a
Melbourne PuW'® gj; »nd jjr V
which is ten feet b ’^ C baU ce Ltß 51
his robes of office tb o
is the joint work


Mr, p er .
htueMelbourne, Sir Redmond's
k OlB the P e known to future visitors
Ned Kelly- Ganges as “ the cove wot
uar ter Sessions last week a
years' penal thanked His
e<l tu-n k’, d Ba id that when he came out
„ f o . Ull kel t,h itl o ia J er ' This is a m ire ch -erful
ni f fell °' v who got the same term
. jlilbou r n e rr lom . tbe late Judge M'Faria ad,
ft!°f robhor 6 he did a t mind Osing con-
,,bridge , y or even getting five years in
t? tha the WAa 6 COuldn ’ c Bta, 'd His Honor telling
gCil ledMiar U thCuL drew the line at
!Has fi ne old gentleman
seetChorch5 eetC horchE gned the charge of the Dorcas-
ft Cpf 6%teri a meral d Hil] - Melbourne, is the
til lin MeXS 111 nnnister in Victoria Hear-
!ef.«lWbeil ic \\-R O Qe - in 1851 > and remembers the
apnxi ha Paid in qmte common for his marriage-
aad l y 80 years of n a UBK u tS - or g° ld -dust. Although
J l6 speaks -hr, o Be he ia still hale and hearty,
t^ to school in ,P aelic as fluently as when he
t 01 8b of ]^ l Western Highlands during
Say 8 a *1 8 George the Third.
<i Path ‘. ' Herald cable :
t ith' C - iI -O a « t h°n U ? ced> in London, of Sir Stephen
i° r many years past has been iden-
“hge.'i an ntction witk o nd emigration commissions, espe-
“ k°uth Australia. He was 81 years
anyth in°r?? Ver you read that a Sir Some-
%aQ Ba .fely njpk to d°_with Australian business
sa ralv°- teet h, a o*? k™ U P as an octogenarian
Ay! B > chalks afae ctive memory, progressive
for A “hek canj? l , t| an d a fixed idea that we
lbals and hanker after Minister
St. Join Topp,
iu hy scholar, and hope of the Vic
ril9 bnivpn’.v harden of the Senate of the
W? 1 ’ h must l ‘ Coming after the courtly
W | to ver y trying to the genial
the h niust he eav . our to look dignified. Great
, e Senate Big ht worth travelling to see
m BcaH lBe i° rece ‘ve Samuel St. John
, 8 to hia fu ’ enters th 9 Senate-house
ipg (j„; 0r Biven p„ a ilrone - Sam., by the bye, has
0 Cr ibed him j Ser ’ .the phrenologist, for hav-
t i n Print as “ rubicund.”
R Hackay, the well-known
iVc/’ 'he s Be „ r a ?d discoverer of Port
r eceivfn ro P°hs of thq North, stands a
HJicea at i, B , aorne slight State reward for
S'en k Ca l « n - 8R Some time ago the Royal
'M enm favoured him with the
the letters F.RG.S. ;
Wed e him the billet of harbour-
f l m. T °ht, an ( ] tj, ’ after which his luck seemed
4 Ha>J* Sl mvy p,° r une turned her back upon
u 'f ther e arfi°f DoBed to give bim a grant of
!w r ' few who deserve it more. *
fWi le Victorian Minister of
S* of Z* 4 Week t-w 6d a de P u tation of unem-
S* bfipiae, t a rV i 0 years ago had “ doc-
vH” a t„ n Seons, barristers, and clergy-
„ A e ton „ ea^ or him on the Sandridge
1% - W k ematl ’a experience is by no
OfNd M tler whn°- havo all heard the story
? tin S hs an er of ? laquircd : “ Where has that
g Qt to ? ’’—referring to one
ehu Cesi3 in lirl' • Isimmo ought to be thank-
el9 n ot necessarily commen-
Si), j character, education, or
SS descend -01 ? of Victoria,
u l c hbiBh 0r f nt . an d full namesake of the
CC S Mney° P Canterbury, has been on
UHri? 6 Tom m J lhere are a lot of A’Becketts,
XN of°! the v? ? f . T - T - fGr man y > rear3 a
vjtf J? f , the l ate jetorian Upper House, and
q( S A lc e of vi S ? .William A’Beckett, first
'ti.ty tort Philiii?k a and previously resident
4]? i lbe? tloth er of r or ® the Separation from
tha,bei>v f dushee A’Beckett’s uncles
® 'C 0l v? o k book a ,wh° wrote those clever
K 1C r!i e *- Comic Blackstone” and
{ England,”
ac J ce tt, the Fitzroy chemist,
unaW lat9 Mr - W. Johnsoa as
s 6&i tojr > nettle in .k of Victoria. Blackett sat
W' bm &d has r-a S3o mbly as member for
th« P T?k edly tried to regain his
Of it, u 8 a Liberals are united Fitzroy
bn? Wa 8 „ trader . When Blackett did
Ts heU^ e rt ll^' tle Unmk WlDg to the nomination
\p' B t, -,? tl d hi s ? er °f Liberal candidates.
bre^, 0 the a;,. ( ' r °ther, the Wiiliamstown
°thrv hiotß n 9 le 'Cirofla of the profession.
hor 9 « much alike that their
IvJ | deded to tell one from the
O Ms ? s mith e^4 R6Us says that it hardly
frm h6 “ ifc se " him now. That
® n^land he rides a park
a " 0 ?’ has deposed his “loud”
modulated voice, and
th e A 5 West End manners. But,
S„,thi B t?hirt-f r n RGUs makes no reference to
K>i>e-hon? ’ IC L - L - has really cur-
\iv ft or> the dia? red Portion of his vesture,
lBr h, B ympto m m ° nd studs, he must be suf-
c 3 a kin to the following:
J ohn Bright's dis
««br t o «°hs. k % of his early politi-
man.” laS probib ly “ looked into
P f % o|^edCUlal Peoiu ey -‘ D,T - that “ amon g
jN. L'ien ( iuk- e With whom Mr. Windeyer
X 0f 3 hti ngal? P 8 in England arc Miss
X! tol d w Sa aDd the poet Browning, the
1,11 that k- mu ch touched when the
i b the 80 kind I,l° aat kind words to Christ
KbS >°tto Of ?? 8 and f or Sa ve the sin-
!f: 'to? tt the ',' e , p risoners’ Aid Society in
Pg.* rj,, ”dge was instrumental in
bS n a Pprtn.- 8 Piece of information will
P 2S by all who know Mr.
k Sek Bo the j whose painful duty it has
h W tenc manner in which
{SSL 88 to death.
n l ' they I? r y many Manxmen in
b ; t k generally successful colo-
tvyb, Jpiu ' Fred a y° r of Melbourne, is a
V ■ ih f vl%; ? rick Call, P. M of tbe Mel-
Cj, bh ia, ’d i 8 an other ; aud Governor
Mr n D u time held vice regal
ill? di.to 6 or ,V yad < it may be mentioned,
tL\,' ■th e ' a d bef ? lale of Man, and is duly
O g The ? *host v he Deemster s Court.
a? lo tbbei- 1 °tahle Manxmen are the
1 ’ Northumberland is one ;
Creer, of the Port
hit ' hi,.k Captain Harry Creer, of
i>i JSd War d hm 0 ond S cam Navigation
ih ry, Creer, one of the largest
is mn e . Clarence district, whose
S^> f tot) a [, ried to Frank Norrie, the
Navl°i c . ltor - Captain Creer, of
y. Kation Company, belongs to
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Times weekly edition, dated June 24,
contained 45 columns of Jubilee !
Gaunson, to the Ministerial corner : “You
contemptible, craven lot; lam ashamed of you
Bung Hi stigmatises the Queensland
Chinese poll-tax ss “an imposition.” Quite right,
Bung. It ought to be £lOOO.
Thus Granville (N.S. W.) Express :
“ Protection is not cining. It has come. And there are
indications that it has come t > stop.”
Parkes, in private, admits that Protection
is coming and is now inevitable in N.S.W. Hut
he says that it won’t suit him to support it.
At Lithgow, Mud J. Haynes, M.L.A.,
admitted that he ‘ ‘ once was a denominational
savage.” John’s warpaint is now Orange-coloured.
A Parliamentary candidate for Christ
church, N.Z., invited his audience to vote for
him “ if they had the gizzard of an Australian
lizard.”
Wung Ho says the Chinese have done
much to develope Australia. So they have. Just
now they’re busy developing small pox at fort
Darwin.
A N. Z. sharebroker states that at present
scrip for a railway to heaven would be a drug in
the market, even with Sir Julias Vogel as a
director.
Mr. David Buchanan declares that having
vanquished John Bright, he cannot condescend to
“Jack” Want, who lately spoke for seven days right off, during the M‘Sharry Arbitra-
tion case, is now awarded the jawbone.
argue with such small potatoes as Freetrade
Secretary Pulsford.
“ Australia for the Australians,” says
Alfred Bennett in a leader. The reason of this
democratic departure is that Alfred sees the
Australian coming.
High Commissioner Douglas says that
everything in Now Guinea depends upon the land
policy adopted. Not everything, John. Much
depends on the rum-policy.
Boyd D. Morehead, M.L.A., leader of
the Queensland Opposition, is described by a
Northern paper as “ shallow and feather-headed,
and given to quips and cranks.”
Bentham says : “ Even the greatest liar
tells the truth a hundred times for every lie he
tells.” Bentham wrote long before there were any
prominent Freetraders in Sydney.
The W. A. Legislative Council holds a
special session this year to consider the Imperial
proposals concerning the establishment of respon-
sible government in Western Australia.
200 pupils of an Irish National School
lately absented themselves because a policeman’s
children attended the institution. It is always
easy to find an excuse for “playing the wag."
Bending bayonets and bursting Norden-
feldts. No wonder the Jubilee service dwelt on
such appeals as “Show mercy to Thy people, O
Lord,” and “ Scatter the enemies of Tljvf servant.”
Most people thought that that dismal
churchyard poet “ H K. White ” died some time
since, but he turned up tbe other evening at
Rylstone and took the chair at the spread given to
Mud. J. Haynes, M.L.A.
Chinese mining laws strictly forbid any
Europeans mining, and prohibit the holding of
shares by Europeans on Ctiiuese territory. This
was pointed out by the Queensland Anti-Chinese
League to rfurig Hi and Co. the other day.
French drum-rolls aud trumpet-calls are
beiDg practised by the Germans in order to de-
ceive their enemies in battle. The poor French,
we suppose, cannot retaliate. No body of French-.
men could possibly personate a German brass
band.
Pulsford says the work of the Freetrade
party has just commenced. That contains more
solid truth to the square inch than most of his
official utterances. It has to work, and work
hard for a living now, just the same as honest
people.
While The O’Sullivan was speaking at
Petersham Protection meeting, last week, some-
one interrupted him with, “ Let somebody else
have the bugle!” The voice was from a Free-
trader, who wanted to sound the retreat for
Pulsford.
In the event of any change in the present
Government of Victoria, the new Ministry would
probably be made up of Mr. Bent, Mr. Patterson,
Mr. Munro, Mr. Shiels, Dr. Quick, Mr. C. Young,
Mr. Carter, and Mr. Gaunson, with Mr. Zeal in
the Upper House.
Bendigo Mac., M.L.A., told an Argus re-
porter that what they wanted at home from the
colonies was “ the man of knowledge, cultured
manners, taste, judgment, tact. They don’t like
being orated at. Salisbury kept clear of colonial
oratory after the first dose.” .
Freetrade has given the N.S.W. Railway
Department at least one good man. Proctor, the
Peat’s Ferry pointsman, is a cooper by trade, but
failing to prociitb work in Sydney, had to turn to
his present occupation. The coopering trade in
Sydney has been crushed by open ports.
Apropos of the Balli Fund, people are
asking what has been done with the large sum
raised many years ago in N.Z. for the relief of the
suffererers by the terrible Kartangata colliery
disaster. One thing is certain—that money has
not reached those for whom it was intended.
Consternation prevails among the Christ-
church (N.Z ) aldermen in consequence of a ques-
tion asked them by the Auditor-General, who
wants to know under what authority they squan-
dered rates on the “ Jub ” Sydney aldermen
should now propose a vote of thanks to J. D.
Young for saving them from liability.
The shrewd Thady O’Kane, of Charters
Towers (Q), summarises the present state of par-
ties in Queensland thus :—“ MTlwraithand More-
head will never return to power. They are play-
ing an old tune, and the colony is sick of it. Some-
thing beyond Griffith is required, more Democratic,
more progress!ve r and more national. We must
await its evolution and development.”
Poor old King Otto of Bavaria shoots a
peasant every day, and then retires highly pleased
at his prowess. Then the peasant arises from the
ground and goes round to the back door of the
palace to receive his pay from the King s care-
taker. The gun is always loaded with blank
cartridge, but the crazy monarch is delighted to
think he really commits a murder daily.
Mr. A. Harris, M.P., of Victoria, ascribes
“ the present prosperity of that colony to Divine
Providence and a combination government.}
Humph! Pretty cheeky that! Divine Provi-
dence and His ministers ! This association
“ kinder ” encircles the coalition crew with a halo
of Divine right. Now we know why it is that
Duocan Gillies’ face “ shiues like a benediction.”
Townsville (Q ) people gave a bit of their
minds to Bung Hi and his mate on the pigtail
question last week that made them sit up and
snort —all the more because it came so suddenly
after the marmalade they had previously swal-
lowed in the,(Southern colonies. Wong Yung HO
oracularly replied that when he got to China
something would be done “for better or worse,”
whatever that means.
A writer in St. James’ Gazette, who was
apparently not in Sydney during the Jubilee meet-
ings, says of Australians :
“ The presence of Royalty in some form among them is the
only thing needed to develope the expression of a feeling
which does exist at present, but in rather a more latent form
than in England.”
There now 1 All we want to fill the cup of our
disgust to the brim is some royal deadhead sad-
dled on Australia.
The Melbourne Daily Telegraph, speak-
ing of tbe dreadful doiDgs of the Irish National
League, said lately:—“ Some examples of the boy-
cotting actually practised are simply inhuman.'
Then it give 3 the following example: “ Two per-
sons named Madden have offended the League.
They are not to he allowed into the parish chapel.’
The italics are the Telegraph’s. We fail to see
where the terrible inhumanity comes in. Now, if
the Maddens had been excluded from the parish
pub.!
Says Burrowa (N.S.W.) Times of Gaun-
son’s onslaught on Judge Windeyer—“That it
savours of political prudery to contend that judi-
cial conduct is not to be discussed in representa-
tive Assemblies save with bated breath and whis-
pering humbleness. Better a thousand times the
coarseness of a Gaunson or the wild bucolic larri-
kinism of a M ‘Elhone than the prim, courtier-like
utterances of a Mr. Ro3e-water Prig, or the sleek
decorous commonplaces of an Hon. Pertinax
M’Sycophant.”
The prospects of the Melbourne Centennial
Exhibition are not altogether of a roseate hue.
Queensland has definitely refused to be officially
represented; and Belgium has intimated to the
Executive Commissioners that if they want the
art exhibits now at Adelaide, they must provide
for freight, insurance, and storage. The example
of Belgium will probably be followed by other
countries exhibiting in Adelaide, and so the
Central Commission will be saddled with a liability
which was never anticipated.
After this, the deluge with a vengeance.
“Philanthropes,” in that goody paper, the Aus-
tralian Christian World, warns all Christians
and loyalists against reading the Sydney Daily
Telegraph, as he has sudcu< 'y discovered that
the said journal is “grossly irreverent and dis-
respectful to clergymen,” and, what is still more
dreadful, “shockingly republican in its tone.”
“ Philanthropos ” evidently doesn’t know much
about the milk in editor Ward’s cocoa-nut. The
D.T. pays a lot better than the Christian World.
A correspondent, “ M.P.R.,” writes to
the effect that he cannot understand the logic of
the Rev. W. S. Frackleton’s position as vice-
chairman at last celebration of American Inde-
pendence Day, at Botany, while being at the same
time a prominent co-operator with the OraDge
Society—a purely British institution which owes
allegiance to the British crown and has the single
function of bolstering up the dynasty which was
deprived of its brightest possession by the Aot of
American Independence. “M.P.R.” must be
young and fatuous.
A certain clergyman of Northern N.S.W.
—orsomebody who is permitted by the editor of the
local newspaper to sign his reverence’s name—in-
vites “ any of the swinish tribe” who adversely
commented on his loyal poetry in the local press
to visit his residence “ alone ” where he will have
“ a proper opportunity of going for them true and
straight,” and where he “ will do what he is
quite able to physioally,” viz , “ extinguish them
for the benefit of all decent society and true
patriots who duly appreciate and support open
manliness,” &o. Blessed are the peacemakers.
The Melbourne Argus has gone dead
against the idea of a daily Hansard in Victoria.
But as everything succeeds enormously whica is
condemned by the Fac simile Times, it has been
decided to have one, and the tender of the Age
has been accepted for the printing and publishing
of the pamphlet. The Government, however, is
to provide the reporting staff, and the Argus is
carrying its resentment so far that It has placed
before each member of its staff for signature a
document by which they pledge themselves not to
accept an engagement on Hansard. Two of the
ablest and most popular members of the Argus
staff have refused to sign.
A little chip off the 'Archbishop of Canter-
bury’s Jubilee prayer : —“ Almighty God, who
didst call thy servant Victoria, our Queen, as at
this time to the throne of her ancestors In the
governance of this realm, we yield Thee humble
thanks for the abundance of dominion wherewith
Thou hast exalted and enlarged her Emplro."
Put into plain English, that means—We thank
Thee for allowing Thy servant to slaughter
Chinese and Bteal Hong-kong, and to murder
heathen and appropriate their lands in sundry
places.” The Loard seldom enlarged Victoria’s
dominions without the aid of a few cannons and a
plenteous rain of human gore. .
Here is the kind of rot sent out to the
Melbourne Argus by its London man: “What loyal
Englishman. Scotchman, or Australian could have
lived in England through tbe .Jubilee period, have
seen that rose of loyal rejoicing burst forth in its
fulness and beauty, its central heart at the Abbey,
in the great city’s centre, the freshness of its per
fume and the glory of its bloom in far remotest
hamlet of the kingdom, and not have gathered
memories which will never pass away ? ’ And the
ungrateful dog excludes from the number of the
gushing “loyal” the 15,000 Irishwomen who sent
5000 soys, to their Sovereign —the most acceptable
Jubilee offering, taking them all round, that Her
Gracious received.
Mr. Zox, freetrade member for East Mel-
bourne, last week related two instances of the
vexatiousness of the intercolonial duties. In one
a passenger from Sydney to Melbourne had
bought a shirt for 7s. Gd. in Albury, and upon ar-
riving at Wodonga had to pav a penalty of 2s. for
desiring to present a decent appearance upon his
arrival in the Victorian capital. In the other, a
son of Signor Majeroni who was at school ip
Sydney, while on a holiday visit to his parents in
Melbourne had actually to keep in bond a butter-
cooler which he had won as a prize, until his re-
turn, to avoid paying duty. Mr. Zox, like all
other freetraders, fails to see that the border
duties would at once disappear with intercolonial
freetrade and protection against foreign competi-
tion.


PARKES’ CENTENNIAL DEAD H[?] A GLIMPSE INTO THE FUTURE.
“The Government proposed a last resting-place to every person who aho[?] a public funeral by both Houses of Parlianment."-Speech by Sir Henry Parkes.


GLIMPSE INTO THE FUTURE,
a Public funeral by both Houses of Parliament.” —Speech by Sir Henry Parkes.


Society
On the 4th inst. half-a-score of merry
guests attended the “at home” of Mr. and
Mrs. Sidney Fullford, Norwood, Hurstville.
Dancing was the order of the night ; and one or
two “ sweet songsters ” (of both genders) exer-
cised their vocal organs, to the joy of all present,
between the waltzes.
* *
The Most Rev. Primate Barry intends to
remain at home every Wednesday from 3 to 5
(until next meeting of the Synod) to receive any-
body who wants any explanation of what he said
at home, doncherknow. Under the circum-
stances his lordship’s afternoons are sure to be
very largely attended.
* * *
Bishop Webber, of Brisbane, announces
that it is his “ painful duty ” to go to England. It
has just been dear Bishop Barry’s “ painful duty ”
to have to return from England.
♦ * , #
Poor Phil. Robinson ! They would do
him honour in one way or another, and when a
select cora-mittee met, they resolved to treat the
dashing hero to a fish-supper after his lecture,
and to present the unfortunate victim “ with a
copy of Mr. Boake’s large photograph of members
of the Contingent.” Will somebody please carry
poor Robinson out 1
* * *
Captain Traill, Private Secretary to Sir
Henry Loch, and Miss Sumner will reside in Scot-
land after their approaching marriage.
* » «
As we are always on the look-out for a
soandal in the ranks of the aristocracy, we draw
attention to the following, from the agony column
of the S.M. Herald :
“ Personal.— Bertie . Washing to day, You ought to
be thee Charlie."
Now, to what does this point ? Does it afford an
unparalleled example of aristocratic economy in
doing their own washing personally—or is it to be
construed as a personal remonstrance with a
brother noble on his neglected appearance ! But
why this mystery and attempt at concealment
from people living in the same house ? Perhaps it
is not gubernatorial etiquette to give even the
most Bimple commands except through the
medium of the Government organ.
* * *
The smoke nights of the Melbourne
artists, in Buxton’s Rooms, are now the plea-
santest Bohemian institution in that city. The
proceedings are absolutely devoid of all stupid
conventionality, and the visitor who fails to
thoroughly eDjoy himself at one of those meetings
may henceforth regard himself as a hopeless
misanthropist. The best people in the world of
art, of music, of literature, and the drama are to
be found there, and all claims to precedence are
sternly ignored, except those of merit and good-
fellowship. Last smoke night the chair was oc-
cupied by Mr. James Lambie, of the Argos, once
a Presbyterian parson and now a prominent mem-
ber of the Unitarian Church.
* * *
At a sheriffs sale in Sydney the week be-
fore last, three tigers, a panther, and six mon-
keys were bought in by a well-known draper, who
probably intends to utilise his new assistants in
his warehouse. The monkeys will be trained to
shin up the top shelves after something a shade
lighter in the way of ribbons, while the panther
usurps the place of the shop walker in directing
customers to the calico department, and the tigers
stand outside to distribute handbills, and gently
persuade passers-by to come inside.
The briefless barristers of Melbourne are
grumbling a good deal at the energetic competi-
tion of Professor Elkington who draws £lOOO a
year from Melbourne University. Not only did
this learned gentleman hold a fat brief for
the petitioner in the Parliamentary Committee
case of Wanliss against Gore, but he is not above
moving probates in the Equity Court, which iunior
counsel regard as pot-boilers.
» * *
“ Dear me ! ” exclaimed Lady Brassey as
she witnessed the majestic approach of the Mayor
of Newcastle (N.S.W.) : “Don’t the miners dress
themselves up out here 1 ”
* * *
The latest Melbourne levanter was the
pink of propriety. The very worst that could be
said against him was that he went to church
regularly and was fond of lecturing his juniors on
the awful sin of profane swearing. He “ used ”
£3OO of trust funds, robbed his employers of £lOOO,
let in all the tradesmen, and skipped to parts un-
known leaving the gas burning in his bedroom —
which made the neighbours think he was still at
home and gave him a week’s start.
• * *
The Bulletin has greatly enraged an
.’Adelaide citizen, who gets on his hind legs thus :
“Sir,—You are ou the wrong track about this much-
: abused city ; all the talk about its sham piety and godliness
and deep dejection and poverty are without anything like a
semblance of real fact. Our 40,000 citizens will not only
compare with but give long odds to any similar crowd on the
■ eaith’s suiface for municipal luxury, domtstic comfort, and
educational advantages. The Holy Joes are not everybody,
idontcherknow. Take our police reports as a test fur honesty.
Yerily our b.M.’s have a sinecure. Wbat would the people
'Of the Beautiful Harbour give to have our system of water
-supply, and drainage—not to mention the grand streets we
lhave! We have not more than 200 Orangemen, and about
'the same number of Chows. Look at the attendance at our
Exhibition, which is floated by our own enterprising business
■men.— Mitamong.”
* * *
Mrs. Gordon Baillie is meeting with scant
'encouragement in the execution of her self-
imposed mission on behalf the Skye crofiers. She
has been successfully sued by her grocer and
-milkman for their little bills in the Prahran Court
within the last few days j and the argus has
■crushed her fragile form under the of its
ponderous leader. Like Moore s Peri at the gates
•of Paradise, she stands disconsolate ou the wrong
side of the ring-fence which surround the aristo-
cratic “succles” of Toorak and South Yarra ; and
people generally are beginning to ask—Who in
thunder is Mrs. Gordon Baillie, anyhow?
* * «
As a certain personage is popularly sup-
posed to love holy water, so the Victorian Civil
Service Commissioners love Mr. E V. Browne.
Having been dismissed from the Post Office he
brought a suit in the Supreme Court to be rein
stated, which he won. Then he was transferred
to the Chief Secretary's office, and having been
suspended for insubordination, he is once more
fighting the three colonels with a determination
and vim which are almost certain to secure &|fv ic-
tory in some form or other. Mr. Browne also re
covered substantial damages some time ago for an
alleged libel which appeared in an alleged comic
paper, and altogether is a dangerous subject to
tackle. He is tall and aristocratic looking, with a
tawny moustache, and may be seen occupying a
prominent position in the grand-stands of all the
metropolitan and suburban race meetings. Quite
recently he was presented with £25, being the
gross amount of a shilling subscription from 500
Civil servants, which he at once handed over to
the Melbourne Hospital. Considering that Mr.
Browne spent £4OO of his own hard-earned money
in fighting the battles of the Victorian Public
Service, and, as he says, “ making a repetition of
Black Wednesday impossible,” £25 does not strike
one as an exorbitant acknowledgment of gratitude.
Mr. B. has handed over the money to Melbourne
Hospital.
* * *
The relations between the Right Reverend
Father in God, Bishop Field Flowers Goe and that
frisky octogenarian, Dr. Bromby, incumbent of
St. Paul’s, Melbourne, are something more than
strained. The Bishop is Low Church to the ex-
treme verge of Puritanism, while Dr. Bromby is
broad to the confines of Unitarianism. To make
the services at St. Paul’s attractive, the choir has
been half filled with remarkably pretty girls—the
Doctor has a good eye for a pretty girl—dressed
in surplices and trencher caps ; and in this hetero-
dox innovation upon all practice and precedent
his lordship detects the perilous influence of the
world, the flesh, and the Devil —with a big, big D.
Dr. Bromby’s idea—which was previously prompted
by his youcg and lovely wife —draws like a circus
or one of Brough and Boucicault’s burlesques, and
Expression assumed by the face of a certain N.S.W. legislator on receipt of the
news that Parkes’ Mausoleum was to be “very small.”
he refuses to disband his choir for all the bishops
out of Sheol. And so no cards are exchanged
between St. Paul’s Parsonage and Bishopscourt,
* * *
Writing of Sir William Clarke’s recent
invitation concert, a Melbourne “ society” paper,
owned and edited by a Polish Hebrew gentleman,
says:—
“ Such a vast concourse of well-dressed, jewel bedecked
people of both sexes were surely never before seen at one
time out of Jerusalem. The Very shht, dear, brought to
one’s mind the count of Solomon in all its glory. History
tells us that ten out of the twelve tribes of Judah were lost,
but after seeing Sir William’s guests on Monday evening I
feel sure that to us Victorians is due the honour of having
found them.”
It must have been interesting for the alleged Chris-
tian guests to compare notes upon the original
value of these jewels, and what they had “ got on
’em. ’
* * •
Mercy on us. Lord and Lady Brassey
hope to return to the colonies in a few years’ time.
Will they return all the half-crowns ?
* * *
The President of the Australian Philatelic
Society, or Stamp-Collecting Union, is Rev. Arch-
deacon King. Some parsons will collect anything.
Next time we go to hear the Archdeacon preach
we’ll put a twopenny stamp (an ancient and
much-battered one) in the plate.
* * *
Lord Brassey handed “ portion ” of the
show-receipts to Brisbane charities. We notice
that everywhere they go the Brasseys hand “ por-
tion ” of their gate-money to the charities. Who
gets the balance ?
* # *
The daughter of an Adelaido parson has
been shockingly imposed upon by a wicked Turk
named Sahat. This turbaned villain runs a stall
at the Exhibition, and knowing the austere
morality of the natives, he naturally expected to
do a thriving trade in pen-holders containing
miniature pictures of an unspeakable character.
But the Turk was at fault in not warning his cus-
I tomers of the necessity of keeping these pen-
I holders in seclusion. The parson’s daughter
bought one innocently enough, and showed her
i ma what a pretty thing she got from that poor
dear heathen. Then the pic ure came to light,
I and smellirg salts wore required for the whole
family circle. If the ynur g lady had known
5 about all this in time she might have locked up
| the dreadful thing in a private drawer, bought up
the Turk’s stock so that nobody else Fhould be
contaminated, and then devoted her whole life to
the reformation of that unhappy man on the strict
QT. This would have saved one soul and many
blushes. Most youDg ladies satisfy themselves of
the giddiness of anything before showing it to
mother, and then decide not to show it to mother
after all. By such means the darlings prevent
more moral contagion than is absolutely inevitable
in this wicked world.
* * *
Miniature photographs of “ a disgustingly
immoral ” nature having been seized by the
Adelaide police, the local Social Purity Society
publicly pray that these “ contaminating articles
m»y be lodged in their office as speedily as pos-
sible, so as to prevent their doing further mis-
chief," What humourists. Can nothing contami-
nate the members of the S.P.S. ?
* * *
Sydney Mail says that “ domestic fowls
often reach the age of half-a-oentury.” We here
give the Mail edi or a pinch for stale news. Have
we not lived in a Sydney hash-foundry ?
* * *
Amongst the latest tints for ladies’ wear
we find “ Browning's Muse,” “ pug’s nose,”
“ onion gin,” “ lion’s roar,” and many, many
others.
* * •
The Victorian corps of commissionaires so
far consists of 50 meD, most of them army pen-
sioners, whose services are obtainable at the rate
of a shilling per hour.
• * #
Everyone who is going to the return ball
to the hospitable Mayor Riley hopes that there
will this time be a marked improvement in the
refreshment arrangements. Also that young
ladies who come in fancy characters where more
of them is visible than is compatible with
the somewhat liberal regulations of opera-bouffe,
should be firmly refused admission, no matter
how wealthy their pa’s maybe. And that’s all just
at present.
* * *
In Sydney the other day a poor lad of
twenty, whose brain was turned, killed himself
with “ Rough on Rats ” because he owed some
body a pound, Were certain members of Parlia-
ment similarly sensitive, they’d have no time to
do anything except to stoke themselves with
arsenic out of soup-ladles. A perfect mania seems
to have set in, both in England and Australia, for
suicide per medium of the nostrum named, despite
the fact that death by arsenic—which is the basis
of the poison in question— is most horrible tor-
ture. For arsenic there is practically no antidote
save the stomach-pump and the speedy adminis-
tration of doses of freshly-made peroxide of iron,
which, amalgamating with the arsenic, forms an
unabaorbable compound.
* * *
The Bulli relief committee allege that to
give the widows lump sums instead of annuities
would probably make them the prey of designing
persons. So they have fixed the annuities at £3O
each, as no man in his senses would marry a widow
for that consideration.
» * *
More champagne at the country’s expense !
Chirps the S. M. Herald :
11 It is announced that the Earl and Countess of Carnar-
von intend shortly t-' visit Australia in the course of a tour
through the I nglish colonies. They are expected to sail
first of all for Tasmania."
Then they will come to Sydney and have special
trains all over the place, and banquets foisted on to
the Estimates, and all the old Manebester-cum-
Brassey expensive lickspittlings over again. And
it will be so till the end of the present chapter
and the dawning of the next wherein monarchy
and its crowd of dead-heads will find no place.
* * *
Her ladyship of Brassey, as the guest of
the Queensland Governor, was one day driven to
* *ne Tree Hill by Lady Musgrave to view the
scenery, drink in the delicious atmosphere, and
note the different varieties ol 8 ' The?
charming scarcity of general vege bosh,
wandered away into the wild"’ o 0 f tie
rather —leaving the coachman m c ccU ®W
“hosses.” The coachman must ha beil) gnotl 0
to the heat or else the restive annua-, carryb®
beasts, grew alarmed at the prosp f r idden i D 8
home my Lady Bras-ey, who had o
Vimojian custermonger’scart Any ’ an d s o '
denly recollected that it was mea t OII nMPP{
daddled in the direction of home, W 1 a i)d ne"° r
coachman hanging oa by h s eye r sp ot 7
stopptd until they landed him m Aize< i torea c
the roadside. Their ladyships i>'an«s aB »•
home in safety with a damaged j lor se. f
j tired footman, and a less v»ma taU ght o u „
colonial horses should in future frmn “bo® 6 ’
respect for the upper-crust raV e on# A
and to this end Sir Anthony Musgrw nil
once proceed to dock the corn a
disloyal buck-jumpers. #
* * i atteuti 011
The Bulletin here demands t ® beaB t«i
of Tiger Inglis, the great slayer of an
who is now Minister of Educati r 0 .i n
who, because he is an economica .of
seen fit to deprive the State tl y apP°' D A
winter. Sir Edward Bradford,
to an important post in the to lrr ofl® cer ’ H»
was, in his younger days, a ca jntere®.
when stationed in Madras too ‘ tiD g, be® 10 „f
sportirg. One day, when tiger- elutebf 8 jg
his mark and soon found binas®* DO ne ®
a tiger. It was an awful m Edwa r [* k oß iy
friends being near at hand. . ffa s b>
well that to lie quiet and sham sart e \ t u p
chance to save himself. The J* t 0 Ap
prey, looked around, and then ra tionS °,; B 8
his victim. He commenced P se d Oi g ir
young officer’s hand which n vfh “
jiffy, and had reached to > the
Edward’s friends spoiled the co $
the scene and shooting the ng ' jjiadb®
lution of the man saved Ms would b»' j,
or even uttered a groan the a messT
once created a vacancy w m° r 0 9 ■.tbi^
Minister iDglis can relate any “ er sa y , e giD?
than this, The Bulletin 'A bo? 8 h A e K e 9
again about the N.S.W. State j^ept' lol
the girls for want of a nre
warm.
'
The eight cream-coloured ag
nearly broke blood-vessels 1 s bo^f s
Gracious to the Westmins e a „f tb
service—on Jubilee day, h® an d b °° r , " -e is
with tow to deaden the cbe more 0 y
crowd. Their long flaxen k ft
as false as ballet girls’ busts.
Royal pa geant! * Mjjf®
* * living S 0l ° e s pofl ice
A certain wealthy dam e. .^jjpgP®
in Queensland, sent to a neig ’ fore^ er te
to inquire the postage on a
The postmaster being 0 u^’ u i ie n tb e P in®°.
to answer the question.
returned, he found the le s i<jer ate
ciently stamped and t very i]h , e quen tl . y^ P
the deficiency which he si _ q ( li f at
and received. But the n ouvea yj
consulted her postal B n . lde ’ #{ vfbi cb u flic 10 %
were two routes, by it v’ aS u e dr°\%,
might have travelled, and p o v9h L, r p®
stamped for the cheaper on ®‘ . a pd-t at , her- H .r#
the post-office, flew int ° a ; s<z
and accused the P.M of baV o ftul at ® X e
poor wretch, could only e - P *
the excess postage (twopenc /<. P°°„ a d®-
Virago greedily and „ of tr a °
comes of having an arxsto njj tJ
* • * imprfS sed rtjb Pfufi
J. S. Butters is so i»>P tt O»A Zt
appearance of those South t 0
he is sending home a bottle w a gC® r , e f c >
ters is doing this with avi ton- A. a re-
value of the precious gems P o rd 6 prbvjf
up to expectations we iu to - t j 9 goite0 it e
weight, ourselves. Perha f years
membered that years an , ft t J d^YnO^ 1
found a lump of rock-cryst^pti 0 ,
palmed it off on Butters a a o<f rfD 6 ”,
J.S B. really believed that
and exhibited it as such e jier> old®* 1
fashionable Collins-street je c opr° it i V
the bubble burst tho f s cofft r 8
Bourke street-irreverent sn up py pv
times would have been go win( jo« r 9„
mockingly showed in their m 0D d?- jjjl
candy labelled “ Butters
* * j C°P U ~rPe t°
The following dark JuP
advertisement appeared i» a re d
the other day : Prove 3, a°
house Wednesday afterr* y tbi 8 of 9 0 p^
this mystery. ’ We should Baffler
was addressed to either . t-go iier* , ga r
mender, or, perhaps, a ratto y
these has many a gloomy „ fly t,
* * „
What fc interviewmj r „ gs t tJJrfJ
the West Australian buS n re port ey t# 8 %
has been interviewed by a tbo b>’ p y .
Australian journal. By
interviewing, the Melbo jn■ it* (
Hist Australian journal ot- tb l9 ,ya 0l ,(,
thioK. r„ . W,S S
papers turned up th e r a il
Yankee system Aow th y old J aP dJ n
for it, and even that 3leeP y aot ic° m 9 JtiBji)
Hkrald. has taken up the l a)eD , ir 1y „
all sorts aud conditions ° b pt V
driver to the owner of a sr V 9
one of the things which the s v
Klvans, of the Argu s > r efu for
demnation of when he pflor® l^!
Marcus Clarke to write s oh>°
because Marcus had # 1 t 0 ii l^
Herald. Evans ot
veneration for the 0 ° n0 p 8 ba e por^ a B
one of supposed c
Argus office and cause D t * 4
views whicti are now 30 g 0 {
During* the last B ®f
tralian Parliarnems tb f or th p *ti ji
the refreshments provu 01i d 01 ' B Ji
a body to an outside < il^pP &§>*■'
giv r «n them in the Hous s iapP 0 ( . pO aC
served. Cups of tea w ® 0 d th°
with a percussion that
visitor 0
Though plagued with tor® 1 *
Of every rank and k n ,
Those two fat Chinkies i ;
Have made us feel re
Nor do we care a single a
For brass aristocrats, , .. 9
Or Phillip’s thrilling mart Rat „. p
We still have “Kough on „
They are marvellously pretty and oheap t and it is not sur-
prising that Messrs. Bray Bros, of George street, opposite
the Joint Stock Bank, have sold some hundreds of them.
■Get one before they all go.*
The eye has to be pleased, the right tone has to be heard
and clumsiness to the touch avoided if you would please
connoisseurs in China and Glass, such as is kept at those
shops, 402 and 404 George street.*
Ladies would do well to attend the great sale of the season
now on at the London and Paris Outfitting Establishment
Mrs. McOathie, 86 and 90 King-street.*
_ f jrtjCtl^gg
Dr. FueukiiickWaiUc. Viner* 01 *’
tour of the Continent and Am „ ft yi o^ p I
i< new in Dentistry. Wr.pul* l '
may bo consulted at Kidm",
Harket itreeU. lake


into the faces of those sitting down. The waiters
were of a kind that by all accounts would have
been better employed in rubbing down bullocks,
or hide droughing. In fact, the animal comfort
of the fourth estate was very poorly looked after,
so the pencil-wielders arose in their might and
took thi ir custom to a restaurateur, of whom it
cannot be said that he hurls dishes of which he
knows nothing into stomacns of which he knows
less.
* « •
The population of N.S.W. is now 592,267
males and 462 783 females. This is good news for
the girls. Calculating roughly, each is entitled to
one Deau and t wo-seventh-t of anotner. As, how-
ever, it might be inconvenient and unsatisfactory
to divide the male population in this fractional
manner, we would suggest that the surplus re-
maining, after allotting a young man to each
young woman, should be disposed of in a grand
Intercolonial Jubilee Raffle.
* * *
At Rockhampton, just now, they are suf-
fering badly from larrikinism. The other night,
while a wedding dance was being held, hoodlums
invaded the premises and cleared the supper-table.
Read this and afterwards eat your dinner
if you can. “It will probably surprise a good
many high and mighty par venues to be in-
formed that Lady Loch’s little daughters are often
to be seen walkipg in the principal streets of the
city nnaooompanied except by their governess.”
Shade of the Conkeror, is this a fact ? We should
have thought that they would have gone through
the city in a gilded chariot drawn by Toorak
dudes and driven by a Dook, with a crowd. of
loyal citizens in front, hurrahing and strewing
the road with flowers and addresses, and a troop
of amateur Lancers from the banks, and, perhaps,
a brass band and a dog-flght or two bringing up
the rear. Evidently this is also what the writer
of the sentence quoted—published in a little
scalliweg Melbourne paper which tries to be
Democratic but hasn’t the soul of a cockroach—
thought the “ par venues,” of whom he speaks so
scornfully considered the correct style in
which daughters of the Governor should. go
around amongst the common people. There is a
large fortune awaiting him in writing mottoes for
emetics.
One of those human moles who are con-
tinually burrowing amoDg statistics has discovered
that married men live longer and better lives than
bachelors, and certain papers published mostly in
the interests of woman have made a great fuss
over the fact. We see nothing so strange in it.
Married men are not allowed to stay out so late
at night as bachelors. They are not allowed to
injure their constitutions by smoking, except oc-
casionally in the veraudah or the back yard, and
if they come home talking all round their mouths
they meet with such a reception that the game is
not repeated for a long time afterwards. Why
shouldn’t they live longer than bachelors ? As for
living better lives, of course they do. Is not
patience a virtue, and martyrdom a glorious thing ?
And do not the majority of them suffer one and
practise the other J We should weep. The aver-
age wife is a crown to her husband— a martyr’s
crown. Heaven, we should say, is full of hus-
bands. We live in hopes of a front seat.
* * *
1 The trustees of Melbourne Zoo intimate
that they will thankfully receive all sorts of
animals except opossums, cats, and eagles. This
Is to stop the little game some people have started
of packing up the next door people’s midnight
disturber, the harmless necessary cat, and send-
ing it to the trustees with carriage not paid—
which, of course, had to be before the box was
opened.
* * *
Phil. Robinson says he cannot condemn
the Mormon system. The Melbourne Argus
calls his views “ Byronic, almost Mephistophe-
lian,” and won’t give them in full in its article on
the death of John Taylor, the late prophet and
last successor to Brigham Young's shoes —and
wives. The Argus says Phil.’s views on the sub-
ject seem to indicate a polygamous thread or
kink in his nature ! ” Well, well!
Mrs. Barry, wife of the Anglican Primate
of Australia, is staying at Bristol, England. One
of the earliest colonists of Victoria is living there
also. This is Lady Eyre Williams, widow of Sir
Edward Eyre Williams, one of the first judges of
the Victorian Supreme Court, and mother of the
present Mr. Justice Williams, of the same
tribunal. Nearly half a centurv ago Mr. and
Mrs. E. E. Williams lived in Brunswick-street,
Fitzroy, where the present Justice Williams was
born. The elder Williams was then a member of
the infant Port Phillip Bar. He died at Bristol a
few years ago, and for some years before his death
drew a pension from Victoria.
* * *
When Lady Rosebery was in Sydney,
delighted with “ Our Beautiful Harbour,”
our young nobility eagerly buzzed round, teiling
her the names of points of interest. But when an
unfortunate dude told her that those sunken
rocks were the “ Sow and Pigs,” she fairly
swooned away. The dude was flipped overboard
at once.
* * *
The Bishop of London has said that
travellers returned from the countries where
missionaries had penetrated declare that it would
be better to carry Mahomedanismthan Christianity
to barbarous races, because Mahomedanism was
temperate and Christianity was not. Humph 1
And Mahomedanism, now we oome to think of it,
doesn’t send the plate round quite so often either.
Christianity of the modern brand is indeed a cup
and plate, not to say knife-and-fork, religion,
* * *
Governor Loch’s only son, aged 14, has
just been sent to Europe to complete his educa-
tion.
# * *
Blasphemy is so rife on the Melbourne
wharves Sunday afternoons on the part of the
Sunday spouters that the orthodox clergy (who
each has, of course, a tabernacle and a salary of
hlB own) say it must be stopped. The Y.M.C.A.
is to be got to sing in the vicinity of the speech-
making. This, it is hoped, will clear the place
at once.
* * *
The latest thing in saintliness from Hobart
is this. It was announced that Miss Amy Sher-
win would give a concert in that city, the pro-
ceeds of which were to be divided between Herr
Schott (now, we deeply regret to hear, a
helpless paralytic) and Miss Sly’s “ Home ”
—this being an establishment for the pro-
tection and assistance of women rescued from
dens of infamy. However, in the latter case the
gift was declined, as the matron was not “ at
liberty to accept the donation raised in the way
proposed for the Lord’s work.” As the entertain-
Inent was given in the strictly proper Town Hall,
md not in the ungodly theatre, folks are wonder-
ng where the objection came in By the way, a
lew weeks since an “idle and disorderly” young
person was about to be committed to gaol, when
it was suggested that the “Home for Fallen
Women” should receive her instead, but she im-
pudently informed the magistrate that she would
prefer the gaol to being sent to Miss Sly.
* # *
“ His Excellency ” down South has beaten
Duncan Gillies’ record. While travelling with his
w:fe and family through a country district the
whole party became drenched with rain and
adjourned to a village pub. for shelter. Immense
fires were kindled, refreshments served, and
change of raiment produced for the distressed
travellers, while their own garments were care-
fully dried. After which these generous aristo-
crats departed without leaving even one penny
behind them, evidently considering that the
honour of entertaining such distinguished persons
was ample compensation for the hos:ess and her
servants.
* * *
Another old Queensland pioneer has
started off to explore the shadowy land of the
Great Unknown, Charley Rome has just died, in
London, at 45. He struck Australian soil in ’63
with his brother Tom, and started to rough it on
the Toabinga Station, in the Burnett (Q ) district.
“ONCE BITTEN,” &c.
THE DOCTOR: “GOOD MORNING, CHILDREN, AND HOW ARE YOU THIS MORN-
ING?”
THE ELDEST : “WE DAREN’T TELL YOU, SIR.”
THE DOCTOR: “AND WHY NOT, MY BOY?”
THE E. : “’COS FATHER SAID THAT LAST YEAR IT COST HIM A MONTH’S SCREW
TO HAVE YOU COME IN AND ASK HOW WE WERE.”
After a tough struggle there and on the Darling
Downs, the brothers invested in the Northampton
Downs Station on the Barcoo, in the flush times of
’69, and striking it rich there, they bought the
Terrick Downs Station, on the Barcoo also, and
there made their pile. Mr. Rome’s widow has of
late been one of the stars of the London drawing-
rooms, her charms being well set off by the dull
background of her constant companion, Mrs.
Princess Louis of Battenberg.
* * *
The latest Melbourne novelty is the
“Souvenir” photograph. An enterprising firm
goes to the trouble of producing neat phoo-
graphs of all “Births,” “Marriages,” and
“ Deaths,” announcements from the Age, and
posting proofs to the advertised addresses. The
idea is successfully worked in London and should
catch on here, Gentlemen travelling with golden-
haired ladies of unmarried aspect And the
“ Souvenir” invaluable. They submit the handy
notice of their nuptials as a guarantee of good
faith, and the suspicious hotel keeper passes them
right away. Photographic proof s of baby’s birth
are as necessary as bottles, and are eagerly en-
quired for by doting mothers. But the Ann is
losing money by turning out black-edged cartes
of “ Deaths” advertisements. When the average
Australian has buried his missus and announced
the sad event his interest flags. A few order
these particuiar souvenirs as useful reminders of
the expiration of the regulation “twelvemonth”
which will leave them at liberty to pop up again
in a pleasanter part of the paper. The “Sou-
venir” photograph—which confers a special
dignity upon Age ads. —has bsin registered a 3 a
“ literary production.”
* * #
Another injustice to the Cabbage Garden.
It is understood that in issuing the new orders re-
lative to our colonial forces the home authorities
will insist on precedence being regulated by the
seniority of the particular colony. The regular
militia, and volunteer forces of N.S. W. will
therefore take precedence over forces of the same
arm belonging to all other colonies In all classes,
however, the regular forces will have precedence
over the militia, and militia over the volunteers.
* # *
Overheard at St. Andrew’s on a “Caring-
ton Sunday." Mrs De Potspointe: “ What a
lovely anthem that was, to be shuah." Mrs. Le
Rosebai : “ Charming. It is by Sir Arthur Sulli-
van.” Mrs. De Pot-pointe: “Really! And, I
presume, the words are by Gilbert.”
* * *
The Queen’s own particular bit of litera-
ture, the Court Circular, has been graciously
instructed to protest against “ the continued im-
pertinences of certain weekly prints which urge I
upon the Queen more frequent performances of
public functions.” According to this inspired
Circular, anything in the shape of a complaining
paragraph “worries” the poor old lady, and
brings about “a condition of health requiring care
and the avoidance of fatigue.” It’s like this. So
long as Her Gracious does nothing at all, she
keeps strong —God biess h<-r ! But directly she is
asked to do something she falls into a condition
requiring “ avoidance of fatigue.” Well, human
natur’ is human natur' in Court or in kitchen.
Victoria by the Grace and our own lady help are
as like as two peas in a pod.
* * *
A Melbourne State school teacher refused
to distribute those “Queen’s autrg'-aph Testa-
ments” among the young innocents confided to
his care. The world is not all grovel, anyway.
* * *
Away at Guanajuato, Mexico, the spread
of culchaw is something alarming We find, for
instance, that the President of Iturbide, situated
in that region, ha 3 ordered “ all male residents of
the city to wear pantaloons from and after June
sth.” In the good old times residents of Iturbide
bared their legs to the breezes and were happy
enough, but now this sassiery President is intro-
ducing faddy regulations which make life un-
bearable, To do the local “ block ” without pants
ia now punishable by a “ fine of from 50 cents to
three dollars,” It’s a burning shame that a free-
born Mexican shouldn’t be allowed the same
license as Donald Dinnie.
• * *
Mr. and Mrs. John Williamson, of Den-
holm, Redfern, gave a dance at Nithsdale, on the
2adinst., when a large number of guests were
present. Mrs. Williamson appeared in a rich
dress with ruby velvet train and bodice, over a
petticoat of pale pink silk ; Mrs. L. Aarons wore
a costume of sage green merveilleux and rich
brocade ; Mrs. Riley, light blue tulle and brocaded
silk ; Mrs Leopold Yates, demi-trained costume
of ivory satin ; Mrs. Field, pink satin and lace
drapery Among the other guests were Mr. and
Mrs Alfred Bennett, Mr. and Mrs. Hughes, Mrs.
Inglis, Mayor Riley, and many more.
* * *
A number of Nowra (IST.S.W. ) residents
resolved recently that the shining qualities of a
certain young man in that district ought to be re-
cognised by a parochial blow-out, and accordingly
they invited a number of friends to meet him and
have some hash together. They had the hash,
and the affair would have been a success had it
not been that the full-blown committee afterwards
sent each guest a bill for 10s. Hence these tears.
* * *
The Art Society of N. S. W. held a con-
versazione at their rooms in Sydney Royal Arcade
last week. The walls were decorated with a
large number, of excellent sketches and oil and
water colours by Messrs. Schell, Phil May,
Ashton, Sayer, Mahoney, and others. A series of
“lightning, sketches” were given by Messrs.
Hopkins, Phil May, Collingridge, Full wood, and
Mahoney. Mr. Leopo d Jordan contributed a
comic musical sketch, and a considerable amount
of dust was raised in various ways.
Lady Carington will be “at home” at
Government House on Thursday, the 11th and
25 ,h inst. The present writer will also be at
home to-night about 11 p.m., when he will put
out the milk-jug and eject the cat before goiDg to
bed, but possibly this .latter item will not excite
much interest in fashionable circles.
• *
Lord and Lady Carnarvon are expected to
arrive at Hobart sometime in October. It is
understood that they are travelling on an insur-
ance ticket in order not to tempt Providence to
the bursting point.
* * *
On Wednesday, the 3rd inst., an enjoy-
able skating party was given at the Columbia
Rink by Mesdames Rolfe, Wise, Jenkins, Wilkin-
son, Mansfield, and Bowman, and Miss Faithful.
About 500 guests were present, among whom
were Mrs. C B. Fairfax. Mrs. Richardson,
Mayor and Mrs. Bunbury, Mrs. James Wnite,
Mrs. and viiss Fairfax, Captain and Mrs.
Bouverie, Lord Bertie, the Misses Darley, and
others.
* * *
To-morrow night (Friday) some historical
tableaux are to be given at Sydney Protestant Hall.
Lady Carington has promised to be present.
• * *
A considerable amount of interest was
aroused in Hebrew circles by the marriage, at the
Great Synagogue, on the 2nd inst , of Miss M. L.
Rosenthal, of Sydney, to Mr. E. P. Cohen. The
bride wore a rich costume of white silk trimmed
with pearl lace aod embroidery, and a long court
train of white satin. She was attended by 12
bridesmaids in cream veiling.
* * *
The Waratah Cricket Club held their
fourth annual entertainment on Monday last in
the Oddfellows’ Hall, Newtown, when a very
pleasant evening was spent. The latter remark
is strictly original, and was worked out by the man
who does the thinking in this office.
» * *
Mr. Theodore Beian, the plucky New
Guinea explorer, is already preparing for a fifth
expedition to Papua, where he hopes this
time to make things whiz The Sydney Even
Noose, by the way, is not quite so cordial about
Mr. Bevan as it used to be, whereby hangs a tale,
* n *■
On July 27 the Rev. Arthur R. Bartlett,
M.A., Incumbent of St. Paul’s, Bur wood, was
married in his own church to Mary, third
daughter of Mr. C. H. Humphrey, J.P., Burwood.
As a man can’t marry himself the service was
performed by the Revs. A. R. Rivers and E. 0,
Beck. The church was splendidly decorated with
flowers, &c., in honour of the occasion.
WOMAN ITEMS
There are six married sisters in Mudgee
(N.S. W.) district who are the mothers of 82 chil-
dren.
A Bolton (Eng.) woman bought another
woman's husband for two shillings. However,
this is not the first time a man has been sold by a
woman.
Miss Cornwell, the successful lady specu-
lator at Ballarat, is going to England, a la Ben-
digo Mac, M.L.A., to stump the country in favour
of the Ballarat minos.
A lady advertises in an English paper that
she can supply “ a perfect wife for £25, schooled
by herself.” A lot of Sydney men can offer them
cheaper, also guaranteed to be perfect—terrors.
A South Australian gentleman was pre-
sented with an illuminated address and a purse of
sovereigns last week. The same evening his wife
presented him with triplets. Some men have all
the luck.
The Supreme Court of the State of Kansas
has just decided that a woman need not take her
husband’s name unless she likes. Now, we want
a law preventing a woman from taking her hus-
band’s money unless he likes.
A Chicago paper just to hand, the Inter-
I ocean, advertises births, marriages, divorces, and
deaths in the same column. That column was
designed to attract the ladies, and is run in oppo-
sition to the local milliners’ windows.
The Meloourne Argus’ London man says
—“ The only J übilee undertaking which pros-
pered was the W. J.O. (Women’s Jubilee Offering)
and this prospered by force of the shamelessness of
the ladies, young and old, who begged for it.”
An old Scotch fishwife, when asked what
a Jubilee was, explained that when a man and
woman were married 25 years it was a silver
wedding ; and when 50 years married, a golden
wedding; but when the man died, that was a
Jubilee.
The London correspondent of the Mel-
bourne Argus says that “ ‘ Babel,’ by the Honor-
able Margaret Collier, is a clever book, but not a
very successful novel, with a vein of coarseness
running through it, such as we frequently meet in
women’s books.”
Only four ladies responded to the Mayor
of Petersham's (Sydney) invitation to organise a
Queen’s Fund Committee last week. The dis-
tressed women will have to take in washing, or
get the committee to drop the Queen’s name in
connection with the undertaking.
The Rev. Tenison-Woods states that
when he was lately in the Malayan peninsula the
Parisian milliners sent him circulars askiog him
to sell them beautiful plumage of Malayan birds,
but that he declined. The rev. gentleman
elegantly says that the terms ottered were too
“ skinny.”
Now that the gallant Parkes is about to
attempt to extend the franchise to women, raise
her to the same status as man’s, &c,, it wih be
interesting to note how Mr. Salomons, his repre-
sentative in the Upper House, will treat the no-
tion. There is a remarkable grouping in the
Hebrew’s Morning Prayer, where the men in three
consecutive benedictions “ bless God who hath not
made mo a Gentile, a slave, or a woman.” And,
you know, we are sure Mr. Salomons says his
prayers regularly.
A burly burglar invaded a Wellington
(N Z.) house 'he other Sunday, when all but the
slavey—from Tipperary—were at church. She
heard the noise, gripped the poker, and stole
noiselessly upon the robber and forcefully laid the
iron on his cerebellum, scattering blood and hair
upon the snow-white table-cloth. Thinking he
had been hit by an earthquake, the burglar fled,
leaviag a trail of gore behind. Bridget, says a
local paper (edited, of course, by a Scotchman)
“has not received one offer of marriage.” We
should think not. We won’t engage Bridget a 3 a
wife But we are ready to hire her as a night-
watchman. P S.—There are now doubts as to
Bridget s veracity.
Scotland once had a place which was
called Gretna Green. Runaway couples were
made one there. The railway and the telegraph
knocked all that in the head. The United States
have a place ca’led Newport, to which wives who
want to get divorces from their husbands go to
live for a while. Victoria has another kind of
place. Women come from all parts of the colony
to it, but neither to get married nor divorced.
They come to bring maintenance and affiliation
cases before the local Bench, which has become
famous for the generous verdicts it gives to the
fair plaintiffs in such cases. ' r he place is Hoiham
—a Melbourne suburb proudly termed by its in-
habitants “The Model Borough.” After this they
should call it “ The Moral Borough.”


The Referee
The refusal of W. G. Grace to accept the
terms offered to him by the Melbourne Cricket
Club is not calculated to cause much regret
amongst cricketers. When the great W.G. came
out on a past occasion, he managed to pick a row
wherever he went. Old cricketers do not forget
the scurvy trick he played on our first team in
1878 when they were about to play Middlesex. A
lot of betting had taken place on the match, anc
just when play was about to commence the cricket
iDg giant put in an appearance on the ground and
demanded that Midwinter, who had been en
gaged by the Australians to play with them
should take part in a second-rate match at Glou
cester, on the ground that Gloucester had a prior
claim on him, and Midwinter left,
• * *
Another new slide is about to be patentee
—by Mr. A. M Leod. The inventor, of course, ex-
pects to knock the stuffing out of all other slides,
and is waiting the opinion of the only “William.”
* • •
The football match between the University
and Bur wood clubs on Saturday proved perhaps
the best match for the Gardiner Cur. Both
teams were at their best, and the result was
decisive. University won by five points to nil.
The Arfomas won their match against Wallaroo,
and the two victors will play the final match next
Saturday.
* * *
The two principal races at the Sydney
Suburban Bicycle Club's sports, list Saturday,
resolved themselves into matches between C. It.
Wood and T. P. Jenkins. Wood won the mile,
and, to the surprise of nearly all, Jenkins beat
Wood in the five mile?. Next Saturday the pair
again meet for a five-mile spiD, when the writer
will be much surprised if Wcoi does not reverse
the verdict.
* * *
How came the official handicapper to in-
sert Bennett’s name in the list of entries for the
obstacle race last Saturday? Are the public
wrong in understanding that Bennett has been
disqualified far a time ?
* * *
Surrey County, “the home of the Lilly-
white s,” has regained its prestige in the cricket
fields of Ungland, owing principally to the
splendid batting shown by W. W. Read, “ the
Surrey Grace.”
London Truth bewails the paucity of
bowlers in England It alleges there are scarcely a
score of really dangerous trundlers in the land,
and in spiking of the recent high scores says
that the discovery of a couple of tip-top bowlers
Would be of more assistance to English cricket
than all the score-record breakers. What would
they plank down for Ferris and Turner ?
* * *
The Queensland boxer, Slavin, it is stated,
is coming to Sydney to make another match with
Dooley. Dooley is just now a vastly superior
man to what he was when Slavin defeated him.
• * *
Considering his paper reputation, Mul-
holland made but a sorry show in his Queensberry
fight at Larry Foley’s with Mace, a slightly dif-
ferent bird to the old boy of that name. From
8 o’clock till ten minutes to 11 did the pair pound
at one another, the principal feature of Mulhol-
land’s style being aloud stamp with the left foot,
but as Mr. Mace happens to be deaf and dumb
the noise did not disconcert him much. Mace
dealt out heavy punishment, but it did not seem
to take much effect on Mull., who may hence-
forth resign any pretentions to a front rank
amongst the light weights.
* * *
Advertisements of Tattersall’s “ Consulta-
tions,” for moneys amounting to [£16,000, occupy
the best half of a column in a Sydney Sunday
print, but the police can’t see it. A short time
back they dropped like a thousand of bricks on a
publican who ran a small sweep. So it seems that
that which is unlawful for the “ Barb ” is lawful
for “ Tattersall."
# * *
Mr. Fairland says “in the future there
can be no connexion between him and the N. S.
Wales Cyclists’ Union.” We thought it Was the
other way about,
* # *
Sir William Clarke has named one of his
two-year-olds Baron’s Court. After one of the
homes of his ancestors, very likely.
* * *
The stallion Sword Dance, which has j ust
been to the New Zealand Stud Company, is a fine
upstanding horse showing more bone than quality.
He was a fair but erratic performer on the Eng-
lish turf, and possessed of a trying temper.
* * *
Jem Mace is doing so badly in conjunction
with Lees that he has had to “ raise the wind ”
to the tune of £650 on his cups and belts. Jem
finds the British public will pay to see his trophies
but won’t do so to see him alone. He has, there-
fore, taken an action against the mortgagee, and
obtained judicial permission to show the trophies,
but on condition that he does not part with them.
# * *
How can the public expect a square race
on a round racecourse ?
* * *
A good horse in England, by winning
three races next year, may credit his owner with
£31,000 in stakes alone. The Eclipse Stakes at
Sandown is worth £lO,OOO to the winner, Kemp-
ton Park Prize £lO,OOO, and the big race at Man-
chester £ll,OOO. If we were a horse (and had a
banking account) we’d be a “ tryer,” you bet!
* * *
Hon. W. Pearson’s much-needed proposi-
tion to raise the minimum weight in Victorian
handicaps to Ost. 7ib. has been carried. Top-
weight Archers will not be compelled to stand
down so often now, and feather-weight mannikins
will have more time to grow and fatten up.
* * *
A patent was granted in Melbourne the
other day for “improvements in the apparatus
for indicating the force of a blow.” We should
think it would be hard to improve on the human
eye in this connection.
* * *
We read that a Mr. James Fuller, who is
still hale and hearty, has seen the English Derby
every year from 1821 to 1881.
* * *
Right or wrong, the N.Z. sports are stick-
ing staunchly to their representatives in the forth-
coming \.R.C. carnival. Silver Prince carries a
pot of money already, and an offer, a few nights
ago, to back Niagara for an even £5OO to beat
Abercorn in the Derby, failed to find a taker.
* * *
At the V.R C. meeting, on Tuesday last,
Dr. double-L Smith remarked that he had been
looking into the hearts of a great many young
men of late, the result being that he came to the
conclusion there was too much of the “’Johnny
Armstrong ” business carried on at present to be
of benefit to the sport of kings. He thought it
would be well if one or two men were stationed
about the different racecourses to put a stop to the
apparently profitable game of “pulling.” Some
of the guileless gentlemen present were so horror-
stricken at this astounding revelation that they
could scarcely keep their clothes on, but eventu-
ally they “came to,” and the chairman said the
committee would sit on the keen-nosed doctor's
proposal first, and, if possible, sit on “Johnny
Armstrong” after. J. A. will now go slow until
the clouds roll by.
Our sporting contemporary, the Referee,
says that Hibbard, who won a footrace at New-
castle and was supposed to be a dark horse who
had been “rung in” on the handicapper, had
the walk rf a policeman.” He couldn’t have
had the run of a policeman or he would not have
won a handioap for paralytics.
* * *
Sir William Clarke, L. L. Smith, and
other members of the aristocracy have promised
their patronage for a complimentary benefit to
Signor Srli, at the Melbourne Alexandra. The
fat little Hercules is in luck.
* * *
Guildford, a brother to the sensational
Newstead, won the first two-year-old race of the
season, down at Goelorg. Guildford was short of
work and started at 5 to 1.
Backers of N.Z. Cup favourites should bo
careful, as Nelson is reported lame, and Lochiel
has not yet been taken np and put into work,
* * *
The Imperial Institute hasn’t absorbed
all the old country. At Ascot, Mr. Benzon (the
new plunger) betted £lO,OOO to £OOOO in one hand
on Ormonde for the Jubilee Stakes, and los
£lB,OOO the next day. The other “new hands’
each laid £5OOO to £5OO on the same horse for the
Jubilee Cup. Ormonde is still unbeaten.
** • *
Overheard at an amateur race meeting—
Bookie (who can only lay one horse) : “ Blow me
’eres fourteen ’osses a runnin’, an’ only one £
tryin’. I’m full up of these amatooers, I am. Gi
me perfessionals.”
* * *
It is positively announced, says an Ameri-
can paper that John L. Sullivan, the famous
pugilist, will write a book. We have a disposition
to dispute the assertion, but if John L. writes the
book without the aid of an amanuensis it wil
(remarks a contemp.) resemble the following
chapter I.
Yer got to know where X first peeped, I s’pose. Well, I was
a Boston kid, yer know, an’ used to flash my flippers on de
blokes peddlin’ papeß. X peddled papes when I was five, an
I knocked ’em all out, you bet.
chapter 11.
His nibs sent me to school, tut I trew the books into de
Boston back bay. I says nixey school. His nibs knocked
me silly dat night, but I mashed me bruder in de nose and
skipped.
chapter 111.
I faked for a livin’ den, you bet. When I was thirteen I
busted a cop Den I caught on to a variety show; dere's
where I learned to slug, yer know. Den I landed up against
dis man Ryan. He’s no good. Hit ’i;n once in Nor Leans
an’ knocked him dizzy.
chapter iv
Den I wrasseled de booze. Pat Sheedy he struck in an'
wanted to run me up aga inst Ryan in Chicago. Ryan trained’
yer know, an’ den fluked. Said he loved his mudder an'
couldn't fight. He’s no good. Me, nir Parson Davies, nir
Sheed don’t take no stock in 'im.
chapter v.
Den me an’ Sheed an' de Parson did de ’Frisco racket
Dere I hit Ryan once more. Knocked 'im cold. He’s no
good. Den I queered my arm on Cardiff W'en I meet
Killen I’ll ju, t find his nose an’ hit it. Dat settles it.
John Lawrence Sullivan.
* * *
The British bookies are getting a down on
“ starting-price ” betting, which, until lately, was
as popular with them as with backers. Be it
known that a horse may be backed at the clubs in
any big English city within five minutes of the
time fixed for the race. A lady who races under
an assumed name has, however, made such big
hauls recently at the game that the bookies have
had a sickener. She has, say, four horses in one
race, three of which are 4 ‘ stiff ’uns,” and one a
“ tryer.” She herself backs one of the “ stiff uns”
openly for, say, £lOO, the public think they have
‘ the pea,” and speedily bring the “wrong un”
first favourite, and the “ tryer ” is not backed for
a cent. Her commissioners, however who are
waiting in every big city, back the “tryer” for
pounds, shillings, and pence at the very last
moment, leaving the layers no time to telegraph
their confederates on the course to “ hedge off.”
Not having been backed at all on the course the
tryer s ” winning price is returned in the sport
ing papers at, say, 40 to 1, and the wily lady thus
pockets ten times more odds than she could her-
self have got had she bached it on the course.
President Grevy’s wife, Madame Wilson,
seeks a divorce from her husband.
An unpleasantness at a Mexican wedding
resulted in the killing of seven persons, including
the bridegroom. The bridegroom thus escapes the
annoyance of a wedding tour.
A delectable dish of divorce doings will be
shortly served up in an Australian Court. A fair
but frail young female, wife of a well-known man,
has, it is alleged, been toying extensively with
the affections of a medico, a solicitor, and
(hooray!) a journalist. The fourth estate will
now have an equal show with law and medicine,
as the members of the last-named professions have
too long enjojed a monopoly of fame in DivSrce
Courts.
A lately-deceased politician used to tell a
story of a policeman, who recovered on a steam-
boat a pocketbook which had been stolen from a
certain bishop. “ I did not want any reward,”
said the policeman, “aLd I would not have taken
anything, but I did 'think the bishop might have
said : ‘ Oh, damn it, Smith, take ten bob.’ If he
had just said that I should have beenlsatisfied.”
Ruskin is growing somewhat crazy in
style. In his latest epistle, to the Secretary of a
Young Men’s Institute, who had told him that
the favourite authors in his library were Kingsley
and Ruskin, he says:—“l am not surprised.
Kingsley liked East wind, I like West. Kingsley
slipped westward—Yankee way ; I step eastward,
thinking the old star stands where it used to. He
wasj a flawed, partly rotten, partly distorted per-
son but may be read with advantage by numbers
who would not understand a word of me.”
The London Life :
"Lord Brassey s voyage in the Sunbeam is not unlikely to
produce some important political results. His visit to
Borneo was undertaken for the purpose of promoting i
scheme for the federation of the British settlements then
together with tbe territories of the Sultan of Brunei under
Jhe Governor of the Straits Settlements, with the title of
High Commissioner. In Australia it is his lordship’s inten
tion to discuss with the local authorities the steps it is desir
able to take in order to encourage the formation of a local
Royal Navy Artillery Corps and the establishment of a Roya
Naval College for Australia. On the voyage home, the Sun
beam will call at Mauritius, Batavia, and the Cape. She is
expected to reach England in October.’’
A fancy dress ball at the Hospital for the
Insane, Gladesville, on Thursday last, attracted a
number of visitors from Sydney. A great many
of the patients appoared in fancy costume, and
when so arrayed it was difficult to tell the insane
from the sane. Some of the inmates’ dresses
were remarkably pretty. They were made mostly
by local lady residents. Mary, Queen of Scots,
was represented by a sane and an insane person,
and we thought the latter “ had it.” Night, per-
sonified by a patient, was very good. A Hunts-
man (patient) gravely informed visitors that the
hour had now come for the final scene, and that
he purposed to let loose the hounds of Sheol upon
the assemblage. This, however, didn’t come off.
The dancing of the patients was very good indeed.
The refreshments, for obvious reasons, were on
the strictly teetotal principle, and one visitor
created some hilarity by going up to an attendant
and asking for a glass of English beer. “ Haven’t
got any,” replied the man. “ Ah, well,” srid the
visitor, resignedly, “give me lager. That’ll have
to do.”
In our issue of the 23rd July we made
certain reflections upon Mr. Purves, Q.C., of Mel-
bourne, and imputed to him unprofessional con-
duct in relation to the drawing of pleadings and
the doing of business which is the privilege of the
Junior Bar. We find on enquiry that our state-
ments were without foundation, and that Mr.
Purves never has done what we attributed to him.
We regret that we were misled in the matter,
and now tender to Mr. Purves our apology.
A NEW DISCOVERY.
Hodman's Eucalyptal (mixture and injection) positively
cures all urinal and kidney complaints, inflammation,
gravel, lumbago (pains in the back), &e. Purely vegetable
Contains no balsam (paiba), or sandal wood. All principal
druggists and storekeepers. Price, 2s. 6d. and 3s. 61 Take
no substitute.*
Department of Pnbllo Works,
Sydney, August 9, 1387.
Tenders for public works ana
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the following PT.RT.TfI
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten
ders are opened, and the name of the successfu
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to whlc v
Tenders
can be received
at this office
Construction of Waiting Shed,
Public Wharf, Cockatoo Is-
land
Erection of Colonnade, Post-
office, Glebe
Erection of Bridge over Iron-
bark Creek at Lower Man-
grove
Erection of Bridge over Bedlam
Creek at Lower Mangrove
Erection of Bridge over Ourim-
bah Creek, Road Wyong to
Gosford
Supply of Ballast at Koorawatha
and Cowra Railway Stations
Construction and Supply of
Ironwork for Superstruction
of Bridge at Bathurst
Lighterage of Permanent Way
Material
Supply of Ironwork and Erec-
tion of Iron Bridge ovor
Murray River, at Mulwala
Tuesday,
August 16,
at 11 o’clock.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Erection of Quarters for Tele-
graph Operator, Gabo Island
Erection of Iron Railing, Court
House, Darlinghurst
Repairs, Court House, Morpeth
Construction of Tank and Fenc-
ing, Police Station, Uralla
Duplication of Great Southern
Railway from Goulburn to
Joppa Junction
.Addition, &c.,St. Mary’s Lodge,
Domain
Painting, See., Post and Tele-
graph Office, Caeilis
Erection of Bridge, Westbrook
road, SiDgleton to Gresford
Erection of Bridge over Salabar
Creek, Road Mudgee to Coo-
namble
Supply of 300 tons Blue Metal,
Newcastle .(Railway Dapart-
ment)
Construction of Timber Hand-
geared Punt, Fernmount
Ferry
Erection of Bridge, Glendon
Brook-road, Singleton to Gres-
ford, exclusive of Supply of
Ironwork
Tuesday,
August 23,
at 11 o’clock,
Construction of Wharf and
Shed, Tucki Tucki, Richmond
River
Fencing. &c., Post and Tele-
graph Oflice, Bowral
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph
Office, Tenterfleld
Feneing, &c., Court-house,
Emmaville
Fencing. &c., Court-house, Bal-
ranald
Erection of Chimney, Hospital
for Insane, Gladesville
Painting, &c., Sation Buildings
at Wellington
Tuesday,
August 30,
ab 11 o’clock.
Construction, &c., Knginc,
Pumps, and Boilers, Contract
3, Lismore Water Supply
Supply, &c., of Reticulation
Pipes, &c., Contract 4, Lis-
more Water Supply
Erection of Police Barracks,
Bourke
Erection of Fencing, &c., Post
and Telegraph Office, Beriima
Erection of Room, Courthouse,
.Jerilderie
Tuesday,
September (J,
at 11 o’clook.
JOHN HUTHKRLA.ND.
* ■> 1C
•r ,
DIRECT IMPORTING CO.
FOIi
turn DIESIS,
472 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite IheJCcnlral Markets;
and at
705 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Anthony Hordern’s, Hayinarket.
Violins,
7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15-, 20/-, 25/-, with Bow.
Violins, in cases, 30/-, 35/-, 50/,
Violins, in cases (superior), 70/- to £5, including
Tutor, Resin, Strings, &c.
Speciality:
Old Violins, £B, £lO, £l2, £l7, £2O, £25, £3O.
Concertinas ,
4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6 to £25/-.
20-key Anglo-German, by Lachenal. £1 17s. 6d. ,
20-key Anglo-German, by Lachenal, steel notes
best make, £4 ss.
22-key Anglo-German, by Lachenal, steel notes
best make, £4 10s.
iccordeons ,
in great variety, 7/6, to 70/- each.
Special Line—Steel note, with wood case,
£1 I*B. 6d. win (
Cornets ,
50/-, 70/-, 84/-. £5 15s„ £lO 10s., to £l6 16s.
Flutes^
8-key Concert, 40/-; Others. 1/6 to 25/. each.
6-key Piccolo, 16/- to 35/-,
Banjoes, Guitars, to,, in great variety,
P.O. Orders will bo promptly attended to.


A Good Night’s Sport
Gan always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL,
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, if you miss Foley’s you
HAVE NOT SEEN THE CITY.
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL, Rockhampton,
Queensland. —The above Hall is duly
icensed under the Queensland Theatres’ Act.
Every Company travelling through Rockhampton
for the past 18 months has (with one exception)
occupied this Hall, including Messrs. MacMahon
and Leitch, Thornton and Harwood, Harry St.
Maur, and Grattan Riggs, with Mr. Chas.
MacMahon’s Dramatic Company, who have just
concluded a brilliant and successful season. This
Company played in the Theatre Royal two years
ago, and Mr. MacMahon expresses himself as
highly pleased with the arrangements in this Hall.
Managers are requested to book at least 14 day
before opening to secure uninterrupted dates.
Terms on application to the Secretary.
THOS. BTJUKLA.ND,
MINING. MACHINERY, AND GENERAL AGENT
Chapters Towers.
Agent for Robey and Co., Engineers, Lincoln;
„ „ Langland's Foundry Co , Melbourne, Via
GOLD. NOTHING TtTTT GOLD!
Read, Cut Out and Keep this Advertisement for Future Reference. It will Pay to Follow Advice Given,
THE GREATEST GOLD CITY IN THE WORLD
VERY SOON WILL BE
CHARTERS TOWERS, QUEENSLAND.
Unfortunately for Themselves Southern People until Lately have Known Very
Little About It.
English Capitalize are now and will Continue Investing Millions in the
PURCHASE of CHARTERS TOWERS MINES.
The Public of every Class can Safely Invest lrom One Pound to a Thousand Pounds with
the Certainty of Gaining an Enormous Profit.
Here is a Case in Point —One Amongst Thousands
THE BLACK JACK SHARES.—We strongly advised our Clients to Buy when shares
were obtainable at a very low pri p e. Take the following figures and facts, which are strictly
true
By buyers’s price to-day per share, not less than 50s .. .. £2 10 0
By nine dividends paid by the mine, some over, none under a
shilling, say .. 110
Less
To amount paid for application money and calls till mine com-
menced to pay dividends per share
£3 1 0
0 1 0
Or a NE - POFTT on COST
£3 0 0
SIX THO
This mine is not much over than a year workin is paying dividends, and will con"
t'nue to do so probably during the lives of the shareholders. The holders of these shares
belitve they will be Bold for £3 a share at an early date.
We only mention the case of this mine as an example and one of manv.
It is not a suitable investment now for people with small means who want quick and cer-
tain large profits on a small outlay of a few pounds, or even one.
High-priced shares are only suitable as an investment for the richer classes.
HOW A WORKINGMAN MADE A FORTUNE
Mr. M , working for wages over 12 months ago, bought 300 shares in a mine here for
£3, and after paying a few monthly calls.
These shares only cost him altogether £l5, which he paid by monthly instalments, thu
not feeling or missing the amount from his earnings.
For these shires Mr M eipects to receive in a few months the sum of £l2OO, and he
has already received in dividends about £l5O He thinks it possible he may get more than
£l2OO, but anyhow, it is an enormous return for an outlay of £l5 within a little over a year.
Look at these figures
By sale of 300 shares at £4 per share .. .. .. .. £l2OO 0 0
By dividends received .. .. .. .. .. .. 150 0 0
Less £1350 0 0
To original cost of shares, calls, and all other expenditure .. 15 0 0
£1335 0 0
Close up to £BOOO per cent, Profit. £1335 for £l5 looks strange, but it’s true.
There is every opportunity for nil persons of every class to invest large or small amounts
from £1 upwards, with certainty of gaining great profits
We guarantee if our advice be followed that loss is impossible.
Wc make No Charge for Buying or Selling, for Advice, Telegrams or
Correspond ence.
Everyone Should Write for Particulars, Sent Free.
Leading members of the Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane Stock Exchange will testify
from their extensive dealings with and personal knowledge of our firm,
That we are most Reliaole Advisers and Straightforward in our dealings.
Where clients send us money for discretionary investments on their behalf we exercise
the utmost ca e. No remittance should be under £l. No stamps to be sent. Cheques-
postal notes, &c., to be ciossed “Bank of Australasia” Correspondents ri plied to im
mediately, letter or wire
AGENTS WANTED LIBERAL PAY.
3STOTB .ADSTID ADDRESS =
D ARCY d& COMPANY,
Charters Towers, Queensland.
Centrally
SITUATED
AND
ACCESSIBLE
TO ALL THE LEADINC
BUSINESS
HOUSES
IN THE
CITY
IMPERIAL HOTEL
THE MOST COMFORTABLE
gd
m
mm
Hi
-n
NVQ
□
a
IT
HULL
mm
W 1
m
c 3
£
fg
SOUTH
OFTHE
EQUATOR
THREE MINUTES
DRIVE
FROM THE
RAILWAY
s TAT!ON
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
WITH ALL THE
MERCANTILE
HOUSES
BANKS&c.
Private Suites with. Luggage Room attached for the convenience of Ladles, Ladies’ Drawing-room, with a magnificent view of the Brisbane River and
One-Tree Hill, Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths. COMMERCIAL ROOM,
<> on 11 omen's Smokiii", Rending', and Corresponding Boom. All letters and Telegrams applying I'or Apartments >v II reeeive prompt attention. 11. lIAMIA.I..
Th kA T tt a KOV a L
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Mnsgrove.
Lessee, Mr, Sam. Lazar.
IMMEDIATE and EMPHATIC SUCCESS of
BLAND HOLT’S SECOND NOVELTY,
This and Every Evening at a quarter to 8.
ALONE IN LONDON.
Prices as usual.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s Hotel.
Alhambra music hall
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp.
Minstrel Shows come and go, but we go on
for ever.
BRITANNIA’S BOWER
3rd Year BRITANNIA’S BOWER 3rd Year.
BRITANNIA’S BOWER.
EVERY EVENING.
THE MQNEYTAKERS
are
BEWILDERED.
Orchestra Chairs, 2s | Stalls, Is; Balcony, 6d.
S'
E W
OPERA
HOUSE.
Under the Management of Mr. B. N. Jones.
WILLIAMSON, G ARNER, and MUSGROVE’S
ROYAL COMEDY COMPANY.
TO-NIGHT, Thurdday, August 11, 1887,
will be repeated Pinero’s Comedy
THE MAGISTRATE.
On Saturday next will be produced the Comedy of
A NIGHT OFE.
RITERION
c
Sole Proprietor
THEATRE
Mr. John Solomon
THIRD WEEK THIRD WEEK.
THE PRESS UNANIMOUSLY PRAISE IT.
THE PUBLIC ONE AND ALL APPKECIATE IT
NONE SUCH PROLONGED AND HEARTY
LAUGHTER EVER HEARD IN THE
PRETTY CRITERION BEFORE.
BROUGH and BO UCICAULT’S
NEW LONDON COMEDY SEASON.
AND STAR DRAMATIC COMPANY.
NOTHING SUCCEED 3 LIKE SUCCESS.
THIS and EVERY EVENING,
THE PICKPOCKET.
THE PICKPOCKET.
THE PICKPOCKET.
Dress Circle, 55.; Stalls, 35.; Upper Circle, 25.;
Gallery Is. W, J WILSON, Manager.
gYDNEY EXHIBITION BUILDING.
THE COLUMBIA ELITE
ROLLER SKATING RINK.
Open Afternoon and Evening to the Ladies,
Gentlemen, and Young People of Sydney as a first-
class POPULAR AMUSEMENT, where good
order and decorum are rigidly enforced,
The largest Amusement Palace in the world de-
voted exclusively to SKATING.
2000 Pairs of the Finest American Skates, and an
acre of the most beautiful skating surface,
are at the disposal of lovers of this
FASCINATING AMERICAN SPORT.
Mr. H. J. WALLACE, the Premier Roller Skater
of America, has been engaged, and will appear
every evening in a graceful and elegant perform-
ance of Artistic Skating.
ADMISSION—ONE SHILLING.
THEATRE ROYAL,
ROCKHAMPTON.
THE above is the only Licensed House in
Rockhampton for holding Theatrical or
other Entertainments, and can be engaged for
any term upon application to
CHARLES NASH,
Lessee.
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
MACKAY.
UNSURPASSED accommodation for commer-
cial travellers, and families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy meets every steamer.
I make comfort of travellers a special study.
SAMPLE ROOMS.
. A. V, ROBINSON,
Proprietor.
Sydney Bicycle Club
M I iv .
THE Sixth Annual RACE MEETING of the
above Club will be held at the Association
Ground, Moore Park, on SATURDAY, 3rd Sep
tember next.
J. WILKES,
297 George-street. Hon Sec
Cig'Stx IDlTrsin
(Next Royal Standard Theatre.)
Best kinds of Tobacco, Cigars and Pipes.
R. CLIFFORD,
CASTLEREAGH STREET.
-J^OTI
£25 IN PRIZES.
C E TO COMPETITORS.
NATIVES’ PLUCK.”
Grand A.N A. Word Competition. Time ex-
tended to Ist September, 1837. Ini ending compe-
titors wanting full particulars refer to Bulletin
of 2nd July week. Nomination 2^.
W. O DONNELL, Hon. Sec ,
St. Arnaud, Victoria.
GENUINE SODA WATER.
THE
Syilu Mil Water Co,
15 CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Perfect Purity Guaranteed.
BUTTERINE.
C CHARLES DAVIES & CO., Butterine Manu-
v;:_facturers, South Hythe, have opened a Cen-
tral Depot at 623 George street. They were
sold out of their large stock before six o’clock
Saturday last —opening day. The butter interest
was so awfully disappointed with the influence of
their scribes, &c , that they declared, amidst
curses, “ Facts are stubborn things.” C. D &C \
are now prepared to have their Butterine sub-
jected to a test comparison with the best butter in
Sydney, analysed, &e. One condition is that it
be p’actd under the control of the Board of Health
for one month or up to three years. Call for this
article—which is superior to butter —at
623 GEORGE STREET.
Everybody IPT?MT?T T’Q
SHOULD USE/ 1 £j ill ii li 10
EXTRA SUPERFINE
PLOITE!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL.
BSI Qbokok-stekbt Byonry
T
0 THE SPORTING PUBLIC
HOW TO WIN A FORTUNE.
Consult the Original and most Successful
TIPSTER
of the Day,
‘PREMIER,”
Who gives the
BEST ADVICE on ALL SPORTING EVENTS.
SEND for PREMIER’S Great
HAWKESBURY HANDICAP TIP,
Also
GRAND DOUBLES
on the
HAWKESBURY AND METROPOLITAN.
Premier's “DARK ’UNS” for the Spring
Events are doing well.
ONE TRIAL will PROVE the GENUINENESS
of Premier’s Advice.
Send for list of Winners. &c.
Terms are
ONE GUINEA for the WHOLE SEASON.
Address •‘PREMIER,” Box 1166, G.P.0., Sydney,
All Money Letters Must be Registered.
MARSHALL'S
TONIC NERVINE
Trade Mark— “TONIC NERVINE.”
ARSHALL'S TONIC NERVINE
Promotes Appetite.
Improves Digestion.
Cures Nervous Debility-
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers—Price 4/6.
Prepared only by
MARSHALL BROTHERS,
Sydney, N.S.W.; London, England,


‘QUACK QUACK.
What a lot of sympathy is wasted every day
that would be of incalculable value, if only pro-
perly bestowed. What a quantity of it, for in.
stance, is thrown away on the victims of the worn-
out old “specialist” dodge. When some impudent
quack sets his skilfully baited trap for the owners
Of special complaints, he has to do it in the
most obstrusive and aggressive manner possible
to attract the attention of those who are al ways
on the lookout for an opportunity of being duped.
His stock-in-trade belongs, two-thirds to himself,
and the balance to his customers. He has the
impudence and ignorance, and they come along
with the requisite amount of folly to ensure his
success. Given these conditions—and they are of
everyday occurrence—and a certain fortune is t he
result. Not being bound by the rules of the game
he declares to win, and does it; they wilfully shut
their eyes to the constant warnings given by the
press and the profession, and it is therefore hard
to discover any grounds on which they can base
a claim for either sympathy or assistance. He
may not exactly cam the right to a monumen in
Parkes’ State Boneyard, but if he can come out
of his fight against the law and against common
sense and decency, able to write a cheque f or
500,000 dollars, he will always be able to obtain
a big share of the respect the world gives to the
owner of shekels, and will stand a good chance of
starring around as a C.M.G., wnile his former
patients are suffering a recovery in the hospitals,
or occupying a large area of ground in the
mortuary receptacles of the country. The medi-
cal profession embraces within its ranks many a
good and honored specialist; but the testimony of
tens of thousands of sufferers in all parts of the
world, supported by the approval of the press, and
by the acknowledgements of professional men,
points to St. Jacobs oil as the one special cure for
rheumatism, neuralgia, backache, sprains, bruises,
and similar bodily ailments, to the confusion of
all others and to its own everlasting glory as a
conqueror of pain.
The power of ST. JACOBS OIL to give relief
and effect a cure in all cases for which it is a
specified remedy, has never been called in
question. The many thousands of endorsements
It has received are the best proof of its value, and
it is past doubt the best all round domestic remedy
that can possibly be kept in the home, whether
the home be a palace or a shepherd's hut. It is
sold by chemists and druggists everywhere, the
wholesale depot for New South Wales being
Elliott Brothers and Co., Limited, Sydney.
While Chaffey Brothers water raise,
To make poor men’s hearts merry ;
Another firm gains equal praise,
Which does its Water-bury.
When Chaffey’s fame is dead and gone
(Some deem their scheme’s romantic)
A faithful watch will still tick on,
From o’er the broad Atlantic.
THE WATERBUBY WATCH keep 3 on doing
its work year in and year out, and keeps
correct time right through. Except in case of
accident, io rarely requires any other attention
than winding, but when it does, you can have it
repaired at an outside cost of 28. (id. at the Water-
bury Watch Repair Depot, 56, Margaret-street.
CLAUSEN’S New York Champagne Lager
Beer is kept by all wine and spirit merchants’
and is the favorite drink of all classes in the com-
munity, on account of its purity.
Winter or summer, wet weather or dry, there
is no drink so well suited to the climate and
people of Australia as Clausen’s New York Cham-
pagne Lager Beer.
GLUE Stickphast, Cement, and other adhesive
compounds can be made from some of the
ingenious preparations sold under the name of
Cornflour. C. Gilbert’s Cornflour is of no use
for such purpose, but it makes beautiful Puddings,
Custards, Shapes, and tempting dishes for invalids
nd children,
“ C. Gilbert’s Cornflour is pure, being made from
maize grown specially for the purpose. Remember
this when you are purchasing.
IE YOU really want to get rid of thattiresome j
continuous headache, try the daily use of Dr.
Scotts Electric Hair Brush. The result will
astonish you.
DIXON’S Everlasting Axle Grease, made from
American Graphite, is better than any you
have ever used, either for light or heavy draught,
BLACKWELL’S Bull Durham Cigarettes and
Tobaccos, are from the Golden Belt of North
Carolina,
Kangaroo skins are just now so high in
price that a marsupial is at least as valuable as a
sheep in N.S.W.
The much-vaunted diamond drill is being
knocked out of time by a Canadian bore, which is
warranted to go right through the terrestrial
globe in something under two months. This
deadly instrument is boring for water at McCrac-
ken's Brewery, Melbourne, and Alfred Deafein is
giving it his distinguished patronage. In his
mind’s eye the enthusiastic Alfred has already
irrigated a few million acres of his native land by
means of this inexpensive Canadian invention.
CIVIL SERVICE ECONOMY.
“The Queensland Government have refused to supply Far Northern Officials with
copying-presses.” The poor civil servant has now to sit on the letter book.
There are to be no more dry seasons. When the
rain doesn’t descend from Heaven, yon can get
the precious fluid, all hot, from the other place.
More joy for the bloated squatters.
The gold warden, two solicitors, and the
several persons concerned, left Rockhampton for
Ridg’ands to settle a mine-jumping dispute, the
other day. On arriving at the ground the court
was set up in a weatherboard shanty, Mr Lukin,
P M., seating himself on an improvised judgment
seat, with the defendants and plaint'ffs and their
crowd of lawyers and witnesses all prepared to do
their duty, standing around. But when the party
came to look for the bible it was discovered that
one had not been brought. There were the eat-
ables and drinkables and other good things, but
no bible. Then the court scattered, and parties
went into the highways and byways prospecting
for stray cottages where the Word might ba bor-
rowed, but not even a Jubilee testament was to
be had for love or money. Then the party
gathered together again and sate them down to
eat, drink, and swear—without the bible—and
having refreshed themselves drove home in
gloomy silence without any greater ill-luck than
the capsizing of the solicitors into a deep gully.
That furred tongue, bad tastmg mouth and miserable
feeling tay you need American Co's, Hop Bitters. Rtad and
believe*
A WONDERFUL Food and Medicine known and used by
Physicians all over -he world ”hcot s Emulsion" not only
give flesh and streugth by viru- of Us own nu-ritious pro-
nprties but crea'Pß an appetite for lood that builds up the
wast-d’ body. Read vhe following:-" Scott’s Emulsion ’
is my opinion an excellent and valuable co u<>i uod. 1
have givrn it to Consumptive patents, and have been de-
lighted with the results obtained It is pleasanr, to the taste,
and can be borne by the most sensitive sumach^
Butter-Knowie, Darlington, Eng.
Large and small bottles at all Chemists.
One of the best managed and cleanest hotels in Sydney 1
the Great Northern, corner Charlotte Place and George
street Having been thoroughly renovated, Travellers will
find it the cosiest place in Sydney. The shilling luncheon
there is immense *
Rat ram OF VIRGINIAN Prunes a most effectual remedy
« ffvJ. Cnnehs Colds, Croup, Asthma, Influenza, Hoarseness
Bronchftisfshortness of Breath, &c. Rignev, late Mitchell,
King-street.
Goulburn (N.S.W.) Municipal Council in-
tends to stamp out sparrows by paying 6d. a head
for them. We must have local industries, all the
Parkeses in the world to the contrary.
The Amuri Pastoral Association of Canter-
bury (N Z ) has taken a solemn resolution not to
give employment to any men belonging to the N, Z
Shearers’ Union. It has also decided to procure
information es to the feasibility of imrorting
Kaffir labour from Cape Colony to do the shearing
next season The Kaffirs, the association thinks,
will shear for 6s. per 100. But the Association
might get gorillas to work cheaper than that, “and
then,” as an Irish clipper remarks, “the money
would remain in the family.”
Dear Bulletin, —Having travelled through the
bus*i for just six months looking for work, and being unable
to find it, I now take this opportunity of letting you know
the true state of things up here. lam a young man, and a
thorough bushman, able and willing to turn my hand to
almost any sort of work, but I find now, on stations where
work is going on, that hundreds of Chinamen a-e employed
(I am not romancing, but speaking solid facts) as cooks,
boundary-riders, knockabout hands, &c I can name three
large stations in one district where there are over 400 of the
Yellow Plague, and I only kn<-w of one Btation on t e Darl-
ing whtre thrre are none. What ip the wnite man to do in
the face of such a state of things ? I have met hundreds of
men who have not done a day’s work since last shearing. In
stray papers I see accounts about the Sydney unemployed,
but not a word, so far, about the legions of semi-starved poor
bushmen who swarm on the rivers and creeks —men who
know that there is only a three-to-one chance of getting work
even during shearing. In fact, a man who has got the pro-
mi.-e of a job when shearing starts is looked upon by his fel-
lows as one to be congratulated—to be set up as a “ little
god.” When I say that we are getting desperate you will not
doubt me, for I am not just merely writing my own impres-
sions, but those of hundreds whom I have met. This state
of things cannot Jast long; even a swagman cannot be
trampled on too much; and if there is not something done to
stop the Chinese fr m entering the colonies the white bush-
man will be a thing of the past The “Chow” will have to
be got rid of by fair means or foul. Hoping you will give
your readers a glimpse of the true state of things in the bush,
I am, sir,—Yours truly, J. Armstrong. Darling River,
July sth, 1887.
Fever in New South Wales is Dr less frequent among
the Colonists and Cnmese than formerly. Thisisowing to the
discovery by them of the curative properties of Freeman’s
Original Chlorodyne. This valuable medicinechrcks theprog-
restt an" rapidly cures all forms of Fevers and Avue, so pre-
valent at certain seasons of the year in many p*rt ■ of N S.W.
By the older Colonis s it is regarc ed as a household rem-dy,
and employers of large Rodies of workmen always keep a good
stock of Fieemans Chlorodyne on their estates Sold
everywhere throughout the Colonies Insist upon having
‘‘Freemen's" only Reject substitutes as they are worthless.
Trade Mark, an Elephant.*
NOTICE !—Beware of young Wine. Drink only Hockings
high class selected old vintages, for invalids. 43 Pitt-
street. *
Tattersall,s Monster Consultation, Bank Handicap, run
August 1, at Canterbury; and the Spring Handicap, run
Randwick, August 27; each 2000 subs , 20s. now open and
filling rapidly. Apply Tattersall, oare G. Adams, Pitt-street.
For sinking spells, fits, diz/.in ss, palpitation and low spirits,
rely on Hop Bitters. Good made by American Co. Notce*
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF WINTER GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prises,
IN Saturdays issue we dealt with the carpets
and curtains to be found upon the fifth floor
at Lawler’s Central Emporium, and now in fulfil-
ment of our promise to treat of a place at which
one can furnish hotel, cottage, a mansion,
thoroughly and economically, we return to Lawler’s
and will commence upon the fourth floor— or bed-
stead and bedding department.
Lawler’s name, as is known to anyone who has
been for any time resident in the colonies, is closer
associated with bfdsteads, and as the first steam
manufacturer of bedding, the present popular and
deserving and enterprising proprietor of the Em-
porium at 608 George-street stands in the premier
position of FATHER TO THE TRADE.
For upwards of a quarter of a century he has
kept the trade of the colony well to the fore, and
at different exhibitions won highest honors. The
diplomas received, together with cabin t photos
of his old factory and his early shops are all neatly
framed, and hang in a promi ent position in the
proprietor s own or private sanctum and rumor
has it that the duster’s instructions are to handle -
those photos and prize honors as carefully as
golddust, for in the proprietor’s eyes never was
golddust so preciou or rare.
We had pieviously been over the factories and
saw the treatment of the material used in the
manufacture of bedding.
Lawler’s extensive wholesale conneation in this
and the neighboring colonies, as well as his
marvellous retail traie, accounts for the hum of
industry and activity visible and obtaining in the
different sections of the factory. Ceylon fibre,
woollen flocks, best Javakapoc, black horsehair,
white horsehair and feathe s are to be found
stocked in bales.
FLAX, that had used to be used so much in the
manufacture of cheap bedding, has had to give
way to Ceylon fibre, immense consignments of
which regularly find their way to LAWYER’S,
who turn out Ceylon fibre bedding at a'most the
old low prices at which ihe flax bedding use! to
be sold.
We have before treated of the machinery used
to prepare the material and the care exercised in
its treatment, so that we are not called upon to say
much upon the subject, except to express surprise
at the stock of IRISH, all white, breast plucked,
goose feathers that there may be found. Horse-
hair, black or white, and excellently prepared and
cured under the new process, is much used in the
preparation of
LAWLER’S FAMOUS HAIR BEDDING.
But to return to the floor. The first thing
we meet wiih, a 3 ft. half-tester bedstead at 16s.
6d., strikes us a strong, effective, serviceable bed-
stead, capitally suited for ordinary rooms.
The same bedstead, with palliasses, mattress of
flook, flock bolster and feather pillow, set of
mosquito net curtains, pair Bheets, wool blankets,
pillow case and white counterpane—a line com-
manding a big hotel sale, 70s. complete.
Beside this strong and serviceable bedstead,
with its bedding of purest material and its
drapery, &c., the cheapness of which we have
mentioned, stands a capital half-tester cot with
strong posts, handsomely enamelled and brass rods
and mounts, really a beauty at its money, and it,
with effective palliasse and a horsehair mattress,
and a best goose-feather pillow and effective
mosquito curtains, can be had at £4 os.
There is a great variety of cots, and in single
and double sizes and at all prices.
For instance, there is a cheap line of half-tester
cot with a thick mattress and a flock pillow, 295.
And there is a swing cot, with perforated sides,
at 3s. Cd.
Here, too, may be found that elegant little
single half-tester bedstead of Peyton and Peyton’s
make, with posts only about 6ft. high, circular
footened with no knobs, nicely ornamented, posi-
tively the strongest as well as nicest little bed-
Btead that could be in a house, price 225. 6d.
And a range of double bedsteads at prices from
255, to 300 s. each.
In half-tester may be seen a 4.6 x 6.6 bedstead
with that important improvement the extending
footrail, deep bars, brass rods at head and foot
end and nicsly ornamented at 355.
The great, useful, strong, serviceable 2in. taper
tubular, half-tester bedsteads, with extending
footrail and brass rods, 455. to 60s.
The four-post bedsteads of the same kind 50s.
to 60s.
These two later lines are in full double sizes.
Palliasses in three qualities :
Prices per-pair from singles 6s. to doubles 9s.
Ditto, seconds, ~ ~ 7s. to ~ 10s. 6d.
Ditto, very best ~ ~ Bs. 6d. to ~ 13s.
Wire Mattresses in five qualities and at lowest
prices known. We were shown the magnificent
Double-wire Mattress of Lohler of Manheim’s
make, and although more costly than the usual,
it is well worth paying the difference to secure.
Handsome single Half-Tester Bedsteads, 455. to
50s.
Ditto, with massive brass mounts, 80s. to 100 s.
Ditto, with triple nickied mounts, 120 s. to 200 s.
Double Half-testers, all brass footends, 100 s. to
2 20s.
DiUo, massive brass mounts, 90s. to 2505.
Four-post Double Bedsteads, massive brass
mounts, 140 s.
Ditto, with triple nickle fronts, 140 s. to 200 a.
Of course the Gamp Stretchers at Bs. 6d. and the
Stretcher Chair Bedsteads, with cushions, at 21s.*
255. and 353 to 70s. may be found in abundance,
as well as the cheap but useful Stump Bedsteads;
but the Bedstead Room must be seen to be ap-
preciated.
This is to boldly and fearlessly state, under
pain of any penalty, that there is not in Australia
a Showroom devoted to Bedsteads and Bedding
like that at Lawler’s.
Under gaslight or in the light of open day it is a
picture, and to those seeking value in the way of
Bedsteads, Cois, Wire Mattreesess, or Bedding, it
is a very satisfying picture and certain and
satisfactory mart.
Hair Bedding is purified and remade under a
patented process at Lawler’s and a separate de*
partment of the factory.
In another issue, say Thursday’s, we will treat
of the third floor, as we are determined to keep
faith with the public aud exhaustively deal with
this important question of where and how t«
furnish safe, sure, economic and Batiofactory.


674
GEORGE ST, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
is the Only Address of the
MUSICAL limnilT
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSQGIiTION,
IMPORTING RIRECT,
and Selling at LONDON PRICES,
In fact it is the Cheapest place for buying all kinds
of Musical Instruments and every pescription of
Fittings, and purchasers will do well before buying
to compare our prices with others.
No connection with any other firm.
Sole Agents in Australia
FOR
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
ill 111 mis,
which oan be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6,
6/- and 5/6 a set.
Single ones in proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d,, and Is. each,
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d, Is., and Is. 3d. each.
Also,
KVKRY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Guitar, Cello, Viola, Double Bass, Harp,
Zithar, &c,, Sc,
m
o
ACCORDEONS, at 7/6, 10/6. 12/6. 15/-, 17/6, 21/-
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, to £6.
Speciality : Miniature Accordeon, double bellows,
strong tone, 21/-
„ Ditto, oak wood, patent steel notes,
42/-
10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality: Tyrolese Violin, with case, bow, and
instruction book, 35/-.
~ Italian Violin, with case (lock and key)
Bow, Tutor, and extra set of
strings, £2 10s.
~ French Violin, with extra finished
oase, full mounted bow, Tutor,
2 extra set of strings and fittings
£4 10s.
4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-,
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Speciality : Steel noted Rosewood Concertina
in box with key 35/-
»! Splendid Organ-toned Concertina,
in box with key 21/-
£>/-, 7/6, 10/-, 12/6. 15/-, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-,
up to £l2 12s.
Speciality: Walter Howard Model Nickel Banjo,
£3 3s.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10s.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality j 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case,
for £2 10s.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
nigger minstrel troupes fitted out.
Orders promptly attended to, and all instru-
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
the colonies.
Enquities attended to by return of post,
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
674 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
881
rsxSßf
WP
in
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. S3RIN and CO.'S
Cognao.
.. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
Prince of Wales Hotel,
MACKAY (QUEENSLAND).
FIRST-CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and families, private sitting
rooms without extra charge.
Billiard Room, plunge and shower Baths, large
Sample Rooms.
MARTIN GIBSON,
Proprietor.
BARB’S” GRAND CONSULTATION on the
JUBILKE HANDICAP, run May 21st,
1887. 6000 members, each 10s. First horse, £1000;
2nd, £300; 3rd, £2OO. Starters, £200; Non-starters,
£3OO, divided amongst them. Cash Awards—
-5 at £5O, 10 at £25, 20 at £lO, 20 at £5. 80 at
£2 10s. each. Early application is requested, and
please register letters to ensure safe delivery, and
enclose two stamped addressed envelopes for
reply and result. “ BARB,” care of T. G. Green,
Guildhall Hotel, Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
Melborne Cup, 1887, now open, 20,000subscriber*
»*oh 20s. First horse £lO.OOO.
E. D. MILES,
MINING AND COMMISSION AGENT,
Mining Exchange.
CHARTERS TOWERS, QUEENSLAND.
Take all in all,
—Take all the Kidney and Liver
Medicines,
—Take all the Blood purifiers,
Take all the Rheumatic remedies.
—Take all the Dyspepsia and indigestion
Cures,
Take all the Ague, Fever, and bilious
specifics,
Take all the Brain and Nerve force
revives,
Take all the Great health restorers.
In short, take all the best qualities of all these
and the— best
Qualities of all the best medicines In the
world, and you will find that— Hop Bitters have
the best curatives riualities and powers of all—
concentrated in them.
And that they will cure when any or all of
these, singly or— combined. Fail 11!!
A thorough trial will' give positive proof of
this.
Hardened liver.
Five years ago I broke down with kidney and
liver complaint and rheumatism.
Since then I have been unable to be about at all.
My liver became hard like wood ; my limbs were
puffed up and filled with water.
All the best physicians agreed that nothing
could cure me. I resolved to try Hop Bitters ; I
have used seven bottles ; the hardness has all gone
from my liver, the swelling from my limbs, and it
has ivorked a miracle in my case ; otherwise I
would have been now in my grave.
J. W. Morey, Buffalo, Oct. 1, 1881.
Poverty and Suffering.
" 1 wa ® dragged down with debt. poverty and sufYe’ing for
years, caused by a sick family and large bills for doctoring.
I was completely discouraged, uutil one year ago, by the
advice of my pastor, I commenced usmg Hop Bitters, and in
one month w« were all well, and none of us have seen a sick
day S'uce, and I want to say to all poor men, you can keep
your families well a year with Hop Bitters for less than one
doctor's visit will cost. I know it."
A Workingman,
Prosccnte the Swindlers !!
If when you call for American Hop Bitters (see green twig
9f Hops on the white label and Dr. Soule s name blown in the
bottle ), vena or hands out anything but American Hop
Bitters refuse it and shun that vendor as you would a viper;
aed if he has taken your money for anything else indict him
for the fraud and sue him for damages for the swindle, and
we will pay you liberally fji the conviction.
ONUM K N T
In Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railings.
Deiigni and Estimates forwarded on reanoi
1 CUNNINGHAM,
MUiMnm. Wytcwaro-sottarm. Hvniruv
Giticura
Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
S 8
jer
M
x'/
Scrofula on fteckw
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Internally, and Cuticuba and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Earning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticuba Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and go.
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies.
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood!
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
/AUTICURA RESOLVE!, ,the new Blood Puri-
\J fler, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re»
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
'■A •c-.-T’ets throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
'AzrCi-ii. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
fUU. Juticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
-cvp, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
Prepared bt the
I Potter Urug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.B.A.
THE GREAT BLOOD PURIFIER
BRISTOL'S SARSAPARILLA
Is the Safest and best Purifier of the Blood and Humors. It Is infallible in its power
to cleanse the Human body, and where it is used according to directions, there can be no
undean Eruptions, no Pimples, no Blotches, no Boils, but instead thereof a Clear Smooth
Soft Skin. The fact is of the first importance to Ladies who take pleasure in A FINE
COMPLEXION. No cosmetic, no wash or lotion will so surely give you a beautiful skin
as will the use of
BRISTOL’S SARSAPARILLA,
and to those who are already afflicted with any skin disease, we say in all good faith try
this great medicine, and, our word for it, you will obtain all we here promise.
Full directions how to take this most valuable medicine will be found on the label nf
each bottle.
Caution.— As there are in this market numerous inferior so-called Sarsa pari lias’ the
Publio who desire this great Blood Purifier should be careful to ask for Bristol’s.
CAN BE OBTAINED FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS
B
RAD 4 Si T,
NEWTON, ft LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTK
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and f'CONNKLL STREETS
Full suites for dining-room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match.
s
ELF- ADJUSTING HAMMOCK
Patented.
CHAIR
*3
m
This chair adjusts itself to any pos tion, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous ositions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest). /3T We can
now supply portable suspension Stands to enable
the Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with
Stand 30/-; Without Stand 25/-.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB (only).
Packing in canvas, if required 2s. 6d. extra.
Drawing-room suites, Fashionably up
holstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
Occasional tables in ail woods, immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &c. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell and
Spring Streets.
dfg
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable tripls
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell and Spring
Streets.
df
Drawing room cabi
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
VCHTIIUBa WARBHOUSBmV,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
g
X* o er PIANOFORTE,
d&tlO guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, bril ant
tone, In handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves lor
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
L
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS
In
GREAT VARIETY.
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB,
Spring & O’Connell ate.
ASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
anfmSS. °° Vered * order *
s
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH, for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
ROCKING rest.
h rvn a Bradle J r » Newton, and
uamb, O Connell -street.
Cs=tf
-a*-:
BKIW3TEADS, all staiiTl
Niokel-platoed and wiyft
and Brass. Qreab variety.
Bedding,—All descriptions at
lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and:
LAMB,
Importers,
O’Connell and Spring Street*.
f
SPRING MATTRASSHgI
Woven Wipe, beet
make | alao, Spiral Spring •
Price, from lia each.
WUnLBI, VIWTON
CHEAP Tables, from
138. fid. ; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kltohen
Dressers, from 275. fid.; Washstands, from 12s. fid. j
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.; Cedar Side*
boards, from £Blos, | Clothes Horses, from 10s. fid.
Writing Tables, with drawers, from SOa.
BBADLBT, NBWTOH, and r.Aien,


•j j F yieATTeHDfI> vmcni?FituKn
Sur^7
l
" 5 ' "
p /s )
" T L ypooy. J3v t
SECTeD >1 7ra/w*
>**/<*<• oPF«*T,orf
otfjyysfLP
yy yjrs oa// a i- .
J' &//>// r Krtou)
y/ Ai Tt/e wrrnt
AA£ ‘ T/l / T PPfA/EJ>
To CjCT o«£ on OR-
CuLAR*. 7
rr *S£-i.i- -DAy
<&jr/VD ME
/\a/0 Tf/£-/Z CAS for
you/?
"<Z //ff 2>f3 T/roy£~# "
: v
(ikßtyMti AW!
gf
- Lit T^ pe * /W^
n W
Vy*/
.te
/Q(r 0\ Y
RE TAKINC, .
f
D' QuacXp T l^e
Tl''''
direct*??, a ytyPb
ayy C«*« °J J '
/Trrs* ~7a kinCj .
Some Facts About Quacks—
Elicited by the Select Committee appointed by the Legislative Council to inquire into the state and operation of the laws now existing for the regulation of the practice of
medicine and surgery in New South Wales.


f, moa, jkjcto c 0.,:
irowmontgxrb,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
SIS GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
<5
IRONMONGERS
512
o
5V
o
JT
%
REG?
Nf!
SPECIALITIES
Davis’ Sawing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Faint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
QAS COOKING STOVES I—LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS ft WALKER'S
BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES, fto., ftc,
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
Is the
ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST.
At>, TEA-CAEEP, PASTRY, &c ,
■ ■ wholesome, and digestible,
WHEN MADE WITH
Uians’ Australian least Powder.
For the town, the bush, and the sea,
beware OF WORTHLESS IMITATIONS.
*0
IN TINS AT 6d. THE HALF POUND.
what is your hobby ?
C'nJNle h
«» o
SShJs. <?&**
try
ys
'•its
< 5*
®™&te
1 it .
o by 11 ; f
A
:■ ■/<
£
r j
The '•oat of every requisite
for a beginner is so low, it'will
surprise you..
Satisfy yourself Jby a visit
to our
WHOLKS.A TJ£
PHOTOGRAPHIC
WAREHOUSE.
TNER AND CO.,
L 24 °'OONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
Tt
for Photographic Supplies
’•'Re Southern Hemisphere.
Vu
KV*
OUE IST E W CATALOGUE.
«e J'°' v our new Enlarging Department in work, and shall be pleased to
** lists npon application to the trade only.
BROS.
gf
g
,'Goii>f*SrKi/p
' Trlacu //
R£f/NfPS
r esro
/ess
fg
r *ra
* y Ncwtown
branch. Ceohce ST. Sydney
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT-STREKT. and 638 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000.000
Reserve fund ... m ... 600,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITkD STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commer
oial and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
A.A.DE BNEY & C 2
IS HUNTER STREET,SYDNEY.
SHIRT MAKERS?
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE,
BEECHAIWS PILLS
CHA
PATENT
B
vt
PILLS
~7
*9
a:
4>.
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth *
Guineas Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pa n
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &c. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
done it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEECHAM’S
PILLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the Bystem. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they wil'l soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring hack the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “FACTS ’’ admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is.
Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any pateni
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Bkkcham’s
Cough Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be
removed,
Caution.— The public are requested to notice that
she words “ Beecham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d.
each. —Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B. —Full directions are given with •ach box,
r ATKINSON'S >
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpaaae* all other* for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Tnaes Gold Manila—
PARIS. 1B78; CALCUTTA, 18R4,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
SPRING FLOWERS
JOCKEY CLUB
HELIOTROPE
JASMIN
MAGNOLIA
Atkinson's renowned
ENGLISH LAVENDER WATER
and other well-known Perfumes are un-
equalled lor their delightful andlaatlnn odour
ATKINSON’S ORIENTAL TOOTH PASTE.
Unrivalled for cleansing, beau'ifylng, and
preserving the Teeth ana Gums.
Of all Vealtrt, and of tht Manu/acturtrt—
J & E ATKINSON,
21, Old Bond St»e»t, London.
- Trade Mark—“ White Rose’’ on “ Golden
fev IT re." A
AST LE j SOtfs
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OFAUTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
Anfl M QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
*
ORICIMA
OA KIHC
P
°*o
WAUGH’S
OBTAINED A
FUjST CLASS AWABO
T .. - J
HIGHEST DEGREE OF MOTT
ISTHE BEST INTHE WORLD!!
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUGH’S
RECEIVE&THE INTE RN ATIONAt
P R I Z E M EDAI_„,
Manufactured byJamesChanhon
Harbour S t Sydney
Sold bv All CrocersandSforekwpcrs
RUSTON PROCTOR & CO.’S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
“ TRIUMPH ” THRASHING MACHINES.
Simon's Roller System or Flour Milling.
Sole Agents I
E. O. ELLIOTT & 00.,
54T KENT STREET, SYDNEY,
d
K
-
1 fit
Utt.NSLANf
ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS. COUGHS
4rii uw? ~Mi ij J i+m'. tfr >
«?» AIJ- PRiPARi-J ONLf 3 Y O' £
HfilM AS IN G HAM. T
p
I
1
i
D”'RIDGE’S
FOOD
roR INFANTS and INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale «n England,
and is now being introduced Into th*
Colonics. (
t very Storekeeper should get a sx JPP*Tj
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR - RI S§SDO n N ° Y^~ND M,t “'
Commercial Hotel, Gympie, Queensland,
THE above la one of the oldest Family and
Squatting Hotels In the oolony. Price*
reasonable. Sample Hoorn.
Superior accommodation. Hot and Cold Battis.
Mrs. W. COMPIGNK, Proprietress.
W JOH - N 8 O N
• COOPER, SURVEYOR,
and
LICENSED GAUOJR,
11 PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND
STREET. SYDNEY,
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces and Kegs, TalOW
Casks, new and Beoond-h&nd; also, Wine sad
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prloeß.
GAUGING IN AUL ITS KRANCHKS.
IMPERIAL. HOTEL,
BBISBAITII.
THE above has been known for some years ae
being the oldest family and squatting hotel
In Queensland. There is a large drawing-room
exclusively for ladies, without extra charge.
Amongst other additions— lift and fire-proof stair-
oase, Invaluable acquisition to hotels. First-class
Chef, can cater In a very superior style. Electric
bells every room. Suite of rooms for families.
Hot and cold baths every floor. Large banqueting
room. Sampler oom.
DC. H. DANIELLB, Proprietors
PLATE, SHEET, and ORNAMENTAL
IWINDOW GLASS
White Lead, Oils, Colours, Varnishes, &o.
Paperhanglngs, Dadoes, Frieses, &c.
Mouldings, Backboards, and Toilet Glaseee
Overmantels, Silvering and Bevelling.
IOSmiIAI BLASS COMPAHY, Lim„
281 GEORGE STREET.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The A. 6. Co. are selling
ihe above goods at a large dlsoount from usual
prices, being the stock taken over from Mr. A.
ftorthwtck.
nqulrle will have prompt attention.


fW-uwwiWjs
ROYAL nwm
SIfIUTUYIsSS
SlSSlf
*akim 6
POWDER
Absolutely Pure.
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without tha aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
the Royal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists,
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government, Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Baking
Powder Co., 106 Wall-street, New York U.S.A.
fgdfgdfgdfgdf
IMF OUTER,
Family Wine and Spirit Merchant.
PICNIC and WEDDING PARTIES supplied with the Choicest Brands of WINES, SPIRITS,
and BEERS at the most Reasonable Prices, ALL RETURNS BEING ALLOWED FOR.
Notwithstanding the Heavy Customs Imposts, P. R, L. still sells the Best Glass of]RUM
BRANDY, or WHISKY IN THE CITY FOR THREEPENCE'
The SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT is stocked with all the Leading Brands of WINES,
SPIRITS, &0., whieh are sold by the SINGLE BOTTLE AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
PR NC€ OF WALES HOTEL,
778 & 780 GEO RGB STREET, SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
ml »| jLLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION,
WALLACH BROTHERS.
GKNKRATB YOUR O*N aiS-
IC EE LEY & 00. s
Spreader Gas Oit Bt, ‘
NISH
One to twenty-four oandleP« w ® r ( ’ oas a t » °®L Wj
Guaranteed to produce MWtt ° an d
complications In use in many to Ireland have»
teen towns in ga ß.
NOW FIRST INTRODUCED INT ° fto *
from Scotland.
Cor porati S^ Waleg .
FULL INS onoH"!* B"*® 8 "*®
See stock /if)
D. KEELJY &
price ws l.
Branch Braas EracketLamp- .. - ,
With Globe or Shadee .. ,
2 Branch Brass Hanging Bamp .. .
With Globes or Shanes „ ' ,
3 Branch Brass Hanging e xtr» «■ „ ‘
With Globes or Shaora „ „ •
4 Branch Brass Hanging extra <• '
With Globes or bhaueo - ' '
IBn “”WK>£«<»s issSSi’ -
Outside Lamp for Hotel, St __ .. ■;
hJSSZ* oi» B&tsStfk s*•*. “ i
Ordinary Street Lampi ~ •* „ i
Spreader Burner.. •• ■*
1 Branch Bracket Lamp* , x^r a • i
With Globe or Shade extflcj* ,
Kerosene Lamp, Tjn •I l *
Mines, Wool washes. Sugar ua j jq w ,
or Chimneys, one burne ~ V
Candles ... T •' ar ,ned, o° e ' i/i
Naptha Lamp, Tin Japannea, __ - j|*i r
24 Sperm Candles • Sp^>
Each burner gives a to M f£|Wj's
can he regulated tT . oU t aßes o( 8 « UoD»
Gas Oil per gallon, o{ 8 P» *
Naptha per gaUon. in _ , rIX )O V
! i
Alb°
Lddress
Remittances to (intgfWi
AM «» »ssra>® s :“
branch) to
By carrying out instruction” be e^': w r
fSjSJfss^as&feiS^
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
FRYS MALTED
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
AH ORDINARY OUP OONTAINB MORA AOTIV*
THAN A PINT OP THE BEST ALB OB
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, <3*o.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmlthing, Blacksmith!ng, Plumbing,
Qasdtting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatlo Bell-fltthag, of every description.
BOULTON'S "FLUSH," "VALVE," and "PAN" CLOSETS, "VACUUM" WATER.
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &C.
•ele Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters,
Warmers, ate.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 ANFo MACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Feu. Particulars and Prior on Application.
Custom House Hotel,
BUNDABERG.
First-class Accommodation for Squatters, Com
mercial Travellers, and others.
ter Private Suites for Families.
Plunge and Shower Bath. Billiards.
Baggy meets every steamer.
HARRY McCANN, Proprietor.
NORTHUMBERLAND HoTEl7Gympie.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
WINES AND SPIRITS OF THE CHOICEBT
BRANDS.
J. F. E. STEWART, Proprietor.
o. H.
Manufacturers^
hats;;
30 2 Gtß°® ofl® cef ’^‘
S Poorsßga^^^^t
v,^iSSMF
j. CRAMP, PBOPBisro^j! 9
fhfl sa 1110 p fl
Conducted on fc “%free r
gr-et Melbourne
large Hi Hard Room. gr <yefl*i
Pric Bas follows 6s - p
THIS SPACE RESERVED FOR E. ROWLANDS
TEETH LIKE PEARLS,
white and sound teeth, perfect freedom from decay, a healthy action of the grume, and delieht-
fuhy fragrant breath can best be obtained by discarding gritty tooth powders and acid washes
ftowlandA’
n Odonto
nl Dentifrice, a white powder composed of the most recherche ingredients of the Oriental
herbal, and warranted free from any srrittv or deletoriona 1
, Jkn«»cial influence «n the teeth and gums All Dentists allow thit either w^hefor
non-gritty tooth powder: such
No other'Odonto is gen nine.
lair^n^^^mrH^optol^rfditosf b DOW sold ,n » golden colour for
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR
beautifies the complexion, eradicates all cutaneous
••".I the Skill soft, smooth and delicate. Ask anywhere for KOWJL.ANDB’
T.ondon. and avoid spurious and pernicious imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bros., and K. Prosskr & Co., Sydney.
m THE NEW 80UTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on snmß from £1 to £5O In the Savings
Sranoh Payable on demand. Offices 4 Park-st
THOS. HOLDERNESS, Acting Manager,
FREE
PRESCRIPTIONS are to
be found in the “LIGHT AND
LIFE," for the speedy cure of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &o. A copy of this
book will be sent free, sealed. Address —
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
s*s
Z Cal) islets
baJten fv
J,
t/
-a
S'
HANUMCTOt
CONFECTIONER statt
'Y
NVWQ3IS siwvr
St£AM WORKS, Kcnt s* mui Cjiikim I'l
taXus or+fa+^a***** o *^
rvomotm om mmomrt.tr msrttCS
The science of life,
By W. Knox Pxrkkk, M.D.
A Book tor young and old men. 200 pages 1 *
bound in cloth, and 'contains over 100 prescrip
blons. Price, post paid, 3s. 6d. Descriptive
sample free. Those suffering from Nervous ex-
haustion and Diseases should send at once for this
valuable work. Address: Doctor W. K.
Parker, Post Office Chambers, corner Bourke and
Elizabeth Streets, Melbourne, Vic.
Guinness
first
3*
BAatf
bbbT *>s>is£s^
J
OOTS
OOTS
T. WILLIAMS & CO..
IMPORTERS OP
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Alto Manufacturers of
Thr Finest Quality op Goods in the above Lines.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney,
MOCS
«OCS
“ BOOKS.” A.tiy Book You Want.
ANGUS <Sc "
Ilf MARKET STREET,
j*rgo stock of now.and,second-hand Books. Price of any k°°
mall to any part of Ans
