

The Bulletin
GREATER THAN THAT OF ANY WEEKLY IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE.
CLA-TTWIOasT TO THE PUBLIC.
Uha”}! the Production of UDOLPHO WOLFE’S SCHIEDAM AROMATIC SCHNAPPS,
Market Cc ° l ? 1 ?’ through its wonderful medicinal merits, the most largely consumed spirit in this
P„ V 1"" ,f therefore is not surprising that it has been imitated and counterfeited.
should use the greatest caution or thep' will htve a spurious aad cheaper article
*»w °u °n them as the genuine Udolpho Wolfe’s Schnapps.
0
I II
250 PITT STREET.
th
6 bi
moneys at CaH.
Jp* ■ ... . . ;
Xe d Deposits received at best Current Rates, 6 per cent, being allowed for
Sllless °f this So«ietj has increased fourfold in two years. Shareholders receive 14 per cent, per annrfcn dividend.
_ JAMES TODD,
TERS BOOT PALACE;
GEORGE AND MARKET STREETS.
*gest, Cheapest, and Best-selected Stoek ef BOOTS and SHOES to be found in any house in Australia.
Ualj ty Fashionable Boots for Ladies and Gentlemen, cheaper than ever previously reached. Householders, heads of
“ M €re tlie Stock of Boots larger than any other house in Australasia, and from ss. to 6s. in the £ cheaper.
INSPECTION of the quality and comparison of the prices is specially invited.
Th<
HUITTEE’S HOOT?
(THE ONLY ESTABLISHMENT OF THE KIND IN THE COLONIES),
GEORGE AAD MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
I uLlie are requested to note that John Hunter has nineteen branch establishments, of which particulars will be given
in a future issue.
(J A{]
tiojst.
of its hav-
to
>eing palmed
° Ur knowledge
Wv of the
Hy ,
<>s- * b
Potl.
Wt n , b ?Üblic by fraudu-
0{ b df^ v to P a y a sum
eo hvi M: IJ °^NDS
Oh
on the
pen
Oi aVV ’ an y
°as so offending.
& CO.
ROBERTSON’S SCOTCH WHISKY.
W~ '
iQv^COTCf/|
MiimAnt
SHdberts®
X * *
THE ABOVE CELEBRATED WHISKY
o be obtained from ail .respectable Hcxtel and Storekeepers
hroughout the Colony and Wholesale from
MESSRS. ALLT- & CO.,
CSrAB&OTTS PX.ACS.


ASK FOR COLONIAL-MADE
w
IRE
PROOF
pvOE
*7
*
PROOF
PN E'f
]\! ETTING!
BRAND.
Cheaper than Imported.
MANUFACTURED LB Y
JOHN LYSAGHT, Limtd.,
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SYDNEY.
MoLEAN BROS., BIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
612 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
4ft
IRONMONGERS
<p 512 x
% • — 1 4“
\oJ RE69 i cH*
:
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
GAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, fee., &C,
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 and 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
FLEMING'S
KBLIABIJt
BUGGIES
VHRfIV GRADE
■TYLB,
QUALITY,
UKISHi
Uhd by atx the
Manx ««**■*•
MCT BOW GfHJCAP,
BUT HOW GOOD!
t
1
FLEMING’S
WAGGOBS
AND
Harness,
Specially Imported
to aniti
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Caul and Iwbpbct
sdf
4
rfj tiltHlim 111 in I 111 KUI' 111IMI'! 11' I
ANUFAGTURERSj
GoiDwSrm/p/
A /VO
Trcacu
RFf/NfRS
inTMTiiiiiiniiiiiiiittiiiiiijnmiH'niiiiiiiiniiiTi/ /
mm
hcad Office & factory, mewtoww
BRANCH-, CCffRCf S? Syr'NCY
iajtMng yon repire from Sydney
FORWARDED AT
COST PRICE.
MO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
Goods Of any description, forwarded free of all
•faarges.
SEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
JOHN T. M'INNES & CO.,
•O PITT STREET, SYDXEY, X.S.W.
paperhangings
HIGH-CLASS DADOES, FRIEZES, and
DECORATIONS.
House Decorator and
Painter,
GLASS SILVERER, BEVELLER & EMBOSSER
Alex. Borthwick
Oil, Colour, and Class Merchant,
281 George-street, Sydney,
mHE
REMINGTON
TYPE-WRITER
Saves labour, stationary,, and time, writing much faster
than expert pen-men, aiid condensing matter to less than
one-half the space occupied by pen writing. Beautiful
copies may be taken in the usual manner in the letter-press
Wold wholesale and retail by the sole agemts,
IMRAY & CO.,
410 Kent-atreot.
$
bahenfi
cn.
3
ROp-sW/ii'/AM S'
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO,
(J. A. ROBERTS, R. J. ALCOCK, G. C. CHALMERS, R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
IRON, HARDWARE, AND MACHINERY MERCHANT
Importers of . AM
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES WOOD WORKING MACH®**
RAILWAY and other CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS MIN II ' 1
CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDERS’ MATERIALS,
SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES. &c.
BAR, PLATE, SHEET and HOOP IRON ; GALVANISED, CORRUGATED and
SHEET and PERFORATED ZINC ; TINPLATES; PIG IRON and LEAD; OILS, P-AUJ* rj#
BRUSHWARE; FENCING WIRE, WOOLPACKS, SHEARING SUPPLIES,
MONGffiRY, ROLLED H GIRDERS; PORTABLE, FIXED, and SEMI-FIXED ENGINES,
and HORIZONTAL BOILERS, STEAM and other PUMPS, LATHES, PLANING,!
SCREWING, and DRILLING MACHINES; STEAM HAMMERS; ENGINEERS’ BRASS FOU
PATENT ROLLED SHAFTING, QUICKSILVER, &c.
Sola Agents for FARMER, ROBEY, and BROWN’S CELEBRATED PORTABLBj SJfll
ENGINES ; READING IRON WORKS’ AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS and PATENT
WM. TAYLOR and CO.’S Celebrated OILS and PAINTS.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO*
Head Warehouse
Iron and Implement Yard
Bulk Stores- • S
London Office
64 YORK STREET.
. . HAY and ENGINE STREETS.
. . HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HA
S'SriDITET.
. - 85 GRACECHURCH STREET.
U£iON«SMS
TeeXCCO WORKS.
8 Y D’N E Y.
SOM A SONS
CONQUEROR
YANKEE DOODt*
ROGER*,
fHIC'
otxs
Y
Of*SOM A SOWS
SIR
eHXiaN A SONS
NAILROD
CtfSON ft SONS 4
CHAMPION^
©*XSON A SONS A***"* *
C UT. In Dm
R.C.RU BY.ORI ENTAL MlXT*'
CIGARETTE GOLD LEAF.***!
OR-GLAJNS 1
SOLE AGENTS FOE THE
SMJTH.
BRUCE &
MA
Fij&.nsros,
ORGANS, MU
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tic-
Dolorkux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head.
iWhy suffer those excruciating Pains when one
j bottle ef
DR. SOUTHAJVrS RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary I In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CUBE FOR BLIGHT.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
Ihis Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
IoS agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
if acuity to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
fi. i. ME, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
631 George-street only.
[HE CLIMAX OF PERFECTION
MONTSERRAT
LIME FRUIT JUICE SAUCE.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
0
MERCANTILE BAM OF
(ESTABLISHED 1869). - a\^'
Paid-up Capital, £BOO,OOO. Reserve Fu nfl ’
Directors rn,nif^
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.0.M.0.- cr
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. CSaird. Eso.
Hon. Philip Gidiey King, M.L.L.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C. ,
General Manager: i 9koß* it
F. A. A. Wilson. | Heet
Branches : Haymarket, Pyrmont, Radferß, jfr
gan, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta. St Leona** 1 t
and Brisbane. : -I - £ <
London Branch fls& T
London Bankers
as
y/A
S-$S
883 PITT STRKKT, a
M
G N U M E
in Granite, Marble, and F roe
Iron Toaib Railings- .an tf 0 *
T>o«ign* and Rgtinratea forwarded on
J. CUNNINGHAM. gfP'
HAaaai.*! HTr.Kjtx, W yir*.u d- aQ c A ”
SIN
aiiir
Bicy c
XYicr
SeHio*
YEN®*


The Bulletin
Vol. 8-No. 360
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1887.
rrioe., fd.
*• For two
often sias," nftl Dr. Jkffsris, •• the
lot* ParGeweot stood self-conricUd. It
gulty of malignancy of speech by
wbieh 6be bitterest spirit of partisanship
was and all good government
defeated, and it w« guilty of an intca*
porato use of strong dnpfc within the
▼ery walla of Parliament, bv which' the
reasoning faculties were blunted and
wise legislatson rendered absolutely im-
possible."
Juries _ ejtgn of rife Zodiac for 7^cxrc/>.
?r* m
p-i:ir **
t*
njcyftoJ'ff
i reo-Sienyife fytS
\ 6ut Tf>ere
l\crff To 6e no yore
l\ Ca/ceS <xncia-fe
\ if y <J ° C L
B fi-YS Ccc yfireSeyf
I
Dt/rydrr- S/of* or
stesf- /nc for Ouse-i
£rect//n / /
/K<v.r o/y
reffc^ujec/ 7&e MpSR,
ofyer cCay
///rf/ 2S~.'e/cto jsffi£|
*.ifoyer ' •
Oj //j 6 '■'/ *)
/#<? Queey 3
7ui/fct
-year
U
W/f/
s* 1 " P
i.'a'V' /
' v-'
-ft*
/09c/ S(>c<r/:
/ //? jyctrcj,.
Dont/iryt tfamf ?atryJs <Zfy - To ie ofer 7se
The “Bulletin” Calendar.


THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 21 PITT-STBKBT, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable In Advance).
Per annum - - - - £1 Os. Od.
Half-yearly - 0 12s. Od.
Quarterly - O 6s. 6d.
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters
payable to
J. M. HARDING,
to whom all orders (or the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
NOTICE.
By Bending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Oflioe Order, One-
pound Note, or Btamps of any Australian colony— you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer Is net open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, hut is entirely in
the hands of our oarviers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
fere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1887.
The Evolution of Industry.
The recent reduction of wages conceded by
the workmen employed by Messrs. Hudson
Brothers, Limited, is deserving of more than
passing notice, pot only on account of its
bearing on the fiscal discussions of the day,
but also because it emphasises the advance
of Labour towards the full recognition of its
rights. It may at first sight seem that
Labour has retrograded by the concession
generously, if wisely, made by these men,
but deeper introspection entirely reverses
such superficial decision. The circumstances
of the case briefly stated were as follows :—
The directors of the company found that
their enterprise was no longer profitable, and
decided that as the transactions of last year
showed a loss of £12,000, the works
would have to be, at least temporarily, closec
unless the men agreed to forego 7i per cen ;.
of their wages. After consideration th
men agreed to submit to a 5 per cent, de
duction, and upon these terms work was
continued. The reduction was asked for, i;
must be remembered, because the company
had lost £12,000 last year, and in this fac,
the importance of the incident will be di
cemed. It was not pretended by the candic
directors that the men were too highly paic,
or that cheaper labour could be obtainec
elsewhere : the one argument urged was
that the loss on production should be in par
borne by the hands employed. The me
were called upon to make themselves part
ners in the loss which otherwise would fa
upon their employers.
But it must be clear to the shareholders o '
the company that by this request and con
cession a moral right has been formally con
ferred upon the wage-earners. The latter
having now been made sharers in the losse
at the present time suffered, will, in al
equity, merit a share of the profits which i;
is hoped will presently ensue. The me
having now forgone a portion of that which
is not alleged by the directorate to be mor
than their rightful due, may justly claim
proportion of the profits earned, as a divi
dend due to themselves, when such profit
are more than sufficient to give a moderat
return to the capitalists who hold shares
the company. It cannot be supposed tha
Messrs. Hudson Brothers accepted thi
5 per cent, subscription from their men
without intention of rewarding them for the
sacrifice when profits again became abund
ant. To assert that reduced wages were
offered as the alternative to suspension o '
work, and that therefore no benefit or favou
meriting a return is conferred on Capital i
not a correct statement of the case. Hac
the men refused to recede from their fair
and lawful demands, it is, as we are informed
most probable that the works of the company
would have been closed, but such a suspen
sion of work, although possibly disastrous to
the men, would have been a greater calamity
to the company. The men it is admittec
were only receiving the rate of wages or
dinarily paid for such work, and could, most
of them,- have obtainod employment at equa
rates in other industries; but there woulc
have been no such power of re-investment ob-
tainable by the capital of the shareholders.
Besides the loss ensuing upon the dispersion
of a staff that years of intelligentmanagement
had collected, there would have been losses
by depreciation, losses by the severance of
business connection, by the suspension of
supply, loss of much of that which is techni-
cally termed the “goodwill,” and loss of in-
terest during all the time the furnaces
were cold, and the workshops deserted.
It was quite as much, perhaps, to
avoid these disasters to the company
as for the sake of retaining employment
with the firm, that the employees of Messrs.
Hudson Brothers consented to continue
their labours at less than an adequate wage.
As a just return, therefore, for this rescue
from loss to which they would otherwise
have betn subjected, the directors should be
prepared—and we doubt not are prepared,
for it is not fair to them to believe that they
have now by this reduction secured a favour
which they do not intend to requite—to
consider the claims of the men as well as
those of the shareholders when in the future
large surpluses again reward the undertak-
ing. The men of Rochdale Co-operative
Mills who received their yearly bonuses
when the factory returned a profit, but re-
fused to accept a reduction of wages when
profits decreased have been held up to cen-
sure by every writer on Political Economy
who has cited their conduct : but even
greater measure of censure would be fairly
awarded to the Messrs. Hudson if no bonus
in years of industrial plenty were to reward
these men, who have generously receded
from their rights in this year of industrial
famine. -. The Common Law of the Empire
declares any agreement between two parties
whereby the one is bound to stand all loss
and receive only a share of the profits to be
void ab initio; shares of profit and loss
must in all cases be similar according to law ;
yet in this instance the unwritten agreement
between masters and men would seem from
past experience to allot all profit to the
former, while the latter, sharing not in the
benefit, are asked to share in the present
loss. But as we have ventured to conclude,
that very request must be an earnest of
equitable dealings in this particular in the
future. It will be for the men to see that
our conclusion is justified by the assertion
of their claim when prosperity again rewards
the operations of this great factory.
There are even more important considera-
tions than these revealed by this incident.
If, for instance, the precedent of this case
is good, and workmen are to be made co-
sharers in tl e loss consequent upon the un-
profitable enterprise of their employers, it is
only just that some part in the direction of
the undertaking should be alloted to the
men. The practice hitherto has usually
been for Capital to stand all losses, and
pocket all profits, and to hire Labour as an
assistant irresponsible for the outcome of
the enterprise. But here that rule is widely
departed from, and Labour is made to bear
part of the burden which Capital otherwise
would have to shoulder alone. It is then a
fair demand that the men should have the
opportunity of preventing the risk of losses
which, if incurred, must be, in great part,
borne by themselves. This is vaguely hinted
at in the expression commonly heard that
“ Hudson Brothers should not try to take
from the men the money lost on unprofitable
contracts.” It is fortunate for the directors
of this company that they stand high in the
estimation of their fellow-shareholders
and the public, as men of irreproachable
character and marked ability, but even ad-
mitting this fact to the full, it is undeniable
that some share of representation is due to
men who are to bear the burden of failures
accruing to the company from any causes.
The first principle of constitutional govern-
ment is that there can be no taxation with-
out representation : yet in the case of this
company the workers have submitted to an
income-tax of Is. in the £, without first
obtaining due or any representation in the
administration of the affairs in which they
are so directly concerned. The next phase
of the evolution of Industry will be the
application of this essential principle of good
Government to the workshops and factories
of the community.
* * *
It can hardly be denied that the men in
this case have been unduly generous if their
recession from their fair claim for remunera-
tion has been made apart from any considera-
tion of future reward. It will be remem-
bered that when the business was floated
into a company, the capital required amount-
ing to £300,000 was eagerly subscribed,
mainly because ten per cent, dividends were
guaranteed for three years, and this guaran-
tee has been duly honored. The interest
being much in excess of that usua'ly obtain-
able by ordinary investment, capitalist were
glad to lend their money to the company.
During the three years of guarantee £OO,OOO
was duly credited to the shareholders, and
there is now over £7OOO to credit of profit
and loss account. The employees during
those three years only received ordinary
wages ; they did not participate in the large
profi's secured. It would therefore seem to
be only a fair thing that as capital monopo-
lised the profit then so it should “monopo-
lise ” the loss now, especially as a large
portion of this “loss” was merely an in-
vestment in the agricultural department,
made to secure larger profit to the proprietors
in this and ensuing years. The generosity
of the men has induced them to consent to
bear part of a burden which in abstract
equity cannot be forced upon them ; but
this sacrifice is wrongly made if no prospec-
tive benefit by future bonus is to be secured.
It is not enough that the 5 per cent, should
again be paid when profits are made ; there
should also be a bonus to atone for the de-
privation now endured.
It may be that this compromise is a streak
of the golden dawn of a happier era in the in-
dustrial world : a sign of closer co-opera-
tion of Capital and Labour in the work of
production— a co-operation that shall end
the conflicts of these whilom foes but future
allies, and induce them to lend a mutual aid
for the attainment of mutual and enduring
advantage. This is the tendency of modern
industrial evolution, and it is meet that so
great a firm and so large a company of
workers should take a leading part in bring-
ing about the millennium of industrial peace.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Nominees of Parkes.
The “ political veteran with a clean record,” the
“great champion of Con titutionalism,” the leader
of the “ honest ” Government that is to relieve
New South Wa'es of the effects of the corruption,
ch.arla'ai ism, and bungling which the Freetrade
party fay have characterised our political life ever
since the ignominious defeatof the Parkes faction
in 1882, has signalised his advent to office by a pre-
liminary canter in which he has ridden his 'i
’oree over Constitutional principles and political
proprieties with characteristic recklessness. A
Gazette notice was issued last week intimating
that Hr. Garran, and Messrs. S. a. Joseph, G.
A. Lloyd, James Watson, E. Vickery, W. H.
Pigott, and S. A. Stephen had been appointed
members of the Legislative Council As far as
personal considerations are concerned, the e can
be no objection to the appointment of Dr. Garran.
Possibly he was nominated for the purpose of
averting criticism of the other appointments. To
all the 'appointments there is a strong Constitu-
tional objection, and there are political disquali-
fications in the case of all the nominees excepting
Dr. Garran. Take the first four names—Messrs.
Joseph, Lloyd, Watson, and Vickery. What
are they representative tf ? Huge monopolies
which cause a few to batten at the expense of the
many. They are associated with large importing
firms, and have a direct self interest in the adop-
tion of a policy of so called Freetrade, and
when we call to mind the avidity witi
which the Council passed the Ad Valorem
Duties Act last session in the hope tha.
by so doing they would be able to stave off direc
taxation, we discover at once the reason why th
quartette of representatives ■of M’Millionisi
have been appointed members of that body
Parkes has pledged himself to repeal that Ac ,
aqd it is a reasonable assumption that he wa
aware that these four nominees would be obedien
to his wish ia this regard. Three of them hav
been members of the Assembly, and the mildes ,
thing that can be said about them is that, if polit -
cal sagacity were to be the qualification, the
would have stayed outside the Council for ever
On constitutional grounds these appointments ar
without a shadow of justification, as they wor
made by a Government the composition and prin
ciples of which have not met with the sanction o
the people’s representatives “in Parliament as
sembled.” It is asserted by the apologists for th
nominee Upper House that it is in reality a repre
sentati e institution inasmuch as the appoint-
ments are made by Ministers who are responsibl
for their acts to the representatives of the people
Under any circumstances this is a very far
fetched argument, but. even as such it cannot b
applied in this instance, as Parliament was not i
existence when the appointments were made. I
is Parkes’s boast that he made the Upper House—
a solemn truth which a discreet man would no
brag about—and his excuse for strengthening i
now is that he finds that the ricketty, old struc
ture is tottering to pieces from natural decay. I
is a singular fact that three or the new nominee
announced their retirement from active politica
life on accounl of ill-health. If Parkes were t
devote his energies towards the demolition of th
Upper House in'tesd of patching it up he migh ;
leave behind him a record of having accomplishet
some good. It is evident from the pace at which
the spavined ’i ’orse has been started that he wii
soon be ridden to death.
Resisting the Police.
In the eyes of the stipendiary mags ra’es—wh
are really only superior policemen—there is n
crime more heinous than resistance of the police
An arresting constable has only to jump into th
witness-box, and aver that the poor wretcli in tli
dock resisted arrest, to entail for the latter th
harshest punishment the law permit*. The pro
testations of innocence made by the accused avai
him nothing. As a rule, he can obtain no wit
nesses to contradict the story of the arresting
constable ; for even if theie were numerous spec
tators of the alleged offence they would almost in
variably be strangers to him, and the police do no
help prisoners charged with this offence to secure
the attendance of witnesses. But where wit
nesses for the defence are forthcoming their tes
timony is usually sneered at by the hired magis
trate a 3 that of “ civilians,” and the innate
esprit de e rps between the magistrate and the
“force” obviates the chance of acquittal
The affair at Gundagai last week is by no means
an uncommon occurrence. In that case the
accused wns fined £3 os. f"’’resisting arrest, while
t le evicence a'l gel that the constables were th
real aggressors : that they began the violence
and were evidently not satisfied even after they
had lodged their victim in the lockup. The poor
fellow’s face when he was brought up in court is
described as presenting a most shocking spectacle,
and he himself stated that he received tho ill-
treatment in the cell. Last week in Sydney two
men were each sentenced to nine months’ im-
prisonment with hard labour for resisting the
police on the evidence only of the arresting con-
stables, and several others for the same offence
w'ere heavily fined, which meant going to gaol, for
they were poor men. The stereotyped phrase of
the magistrates is : “It is my duty to support the
police,” and occasionally one will declare in a
stern voice : “ I am determined to put down these
at acks on the officers of justice.” 'I hat it is the
clear duty of these magistrates to administer even-
handed justice between the police authorities and
the accused persons seems to be usually above
their comprehension. So ,'ong as these function-
aries are appointed by Ministerial favour no im-
provement can be expected. A magistrate who
derives his place, pay, and promotion from the
same source as the constabulary will naturally
acquire a fellow feeling for, and unbounded faith
in, the very men whose testimony should be taken
w r ith grains of allowance. If there were anything
approaching a true political spirit in New South
Wales the existing method of appointing magis-
trates would not be tolerated for a day.
Free and Independent Electors.
The theory of the Constitution of New South
Wales is primarily that the elective chamber shall
be composed of men who are the free choice of
the voters. This theory is re affirmed in the
Electoral Act, and is enforced by the written and
unwritten Lex ct Consuetudo Parliamenti. In-
dependence of the Crown is justly regarded as of
the very highest importance to the electing con-
stituents, in order that the elective House may be
perfectly free from any servile subordination to
that element in the State. Hence neither the
monarch in person nor any official or functionary
employed under the Crown is permitted to use the
powers of office directly or indirectly in the elec-
tion of representatives. Especially and expressly
are functionaries of considerable rank disallowed
from exercising any influence over the electors.
The foregoing is of course mere truism ; yet it
needs to be stated —since during the recent
elections in New South Wales—Ministers of
the Crown have impudently interfered with
the people’s right to choose representatives, by
openly maligning Opposition candidates, by
threatening to consider electorates disfranchised
i hat refused to return Government supporters,
by running free trains in which to convey over-
awing multitudes to cheer Ministerialists and
howl down their opponents, and by offering im-
proper inducements to constituencies as a reward
for sending to Parliament men pledged to yield
blind obedience to the powers that be. The
Minister most guilty is the Premier himself. And
his guilt is the more glaring since h i cannot pos-
sibly plead ignorance of the law. Nobody knows
better than Sir Henry Pakkks that the bottom
principle of “ the liberties of the people," of which
he talks so glibly, consists in the thorough and
complete freedom of the people in the exercise of
the political franchise. At Quean bey an he went
so far as to confess that his position as a Minister
precluded his taking the part he was taking in the
election there. He then tried to make it
out that he waj there, not in his M’-' ! -
terial capacity, but in his crfc vb* _ — an _
ordinary citizen; as though • POs- *
eible for h'm tc throw off h-““histeria
status whilst still wielding-the pow® rs °ftice
and controlling the of the cou„ L—'ter
haps he will contend, if jtiaken to task by Pajrlia
ment on the subject, that he went to Northumber
land as an ordinary citizen. There he received
deputation c f voters, aiid promised them, on be
half of the Government, to redress a grievanc
under which they conceived themselves to be sui '.
fe'irg— the said grievance being a disability t
"jump ” lands dedicated to the common uso o
the inhabitants. Did he make that promise as a
ordinary citizen, or as the Prime Minister i Wa
it as an ordinary citizen that he procured a larg
police escort here, the running of free trains there
and the expenditure of considerable sums of publi
money everywhere he went ? The idea is prepos
terous. The mere suggestion of it is to insult th
understanding of the community. The truth is
when Park as got to Queanbeyan he discoverec
hit unlawful performances had not gone quite un
observed or uncriticised. He began to pereeiv
some necessity for inventing an excuse for
his egregious misconduct, and he stumblec
on this pre-eminently stupid Action, that h
could transmogrify himself fiom a Minister of th
Crown inro a private citizen, and vice versa when
ever it suited his convenience. That New South
Wales should be under the compulsion of sufTerin ;
a man capable of such gross lawlessness as that i:
question to be a Minister for a day is bad enough
for her to have to endure one who can seriously
put forward such a ludicrous excuso for his con
tinued misconduct seems like over-AUing the mea
sure of her misfortunes.
“Religion” in Tonga.
Thb inAuence of sectarian religion in Tonga has
brought matters to a disastrous climax in tha,
island. Wesleyans, Free Churchmen, and Catho
lies have divided the island into bitterly hostile
parties, and constant wrangling, varied by occa
sional bloodsliedding, will probably sum up the
history of the inhabitants for some time to come
The triumph of missionary labours there was mos .
pronounced after the attempt on the life of tha ,
clerical tyrant the Rev. Siiiri.ey Baker, Premie
of the local Government, To protect his own life
Mr. Baker requested the Bricish Consul to hois ,
the British Aag over the humble abode of the
“follower of the Lord," who seems to have
earned so much of hate, that his life was not then
safe. Further, the pious Premier induced the re
luctant King to send away to the adjacent island
to obtain more warriors for the sake of restoriny 1
peace among the hostile Tongans, and the Ars ,
thing that these imported braves did was to hole
a war dance in front of the Wesleyan mission
station on the morning of the-blessed Sawbath
Then a vendetta against Wesleyans seems to have
been proclaimed, and their pigs were slaughterer
and yam patches destroyed with a religious
fervour, which can only find an equal in the dove
tion with which New South Wales Orangemen
plumped for some of their very shady and vory
hollow candidates at the recent election. Faction
fights seem to be as fashionable at Tonga as a ;
Belfast, and the imported parsons and jTiests art
generally seen, not in the thick of the shindy, but
safe in the background woi king up the agony,
and encouraging the deluded fighters. This is the
way the Tongan missionaries celebrate the Jubilee.
It is just about 50 years since they started to work
the “ poor heathen ” there, and so far have they
succeeded that a Wesleyan at Tonga has learned
to hate a Free Churchman with all the fanatica
fervour displayed by his white brother. A larger
gaol is projected to meet the demands caused by
this Jubilee Exhibition, and for the same reason
rifles and bullets aie now at a heavy premium.
Generous little children of England and Australia,
who contribute their weekly coppers to missionary
funds, may find comfort in knowing that the sec-
tarian religion of these poor islandersis very much
like the sectarian religion of bigoted Australians—
a choice mixture of hell, snuille, and hate.
Salisbury’s Confession.
“True Marquis of Salisbury says that it is im
possible to exaggerate the serious depression that
prevails in the United Kingdom, and adds that it
is hopeless to legislate with a view of coping with
it,"—that is the substance of a recent cablegram
a message, by the way, that has not been noticed
m the editorial columns of the Sydney daily
Press. It is not stated in the message whether
Salisbury relied on any natural causes to bring
about relief from this “ depression that cannot pos-
sibly be exaggerated,” or whether he regarded it
as the natural, inevitable, and interminable condi-
tion of “ the nation whose drum-beat echoes round
the world.” It is possible that ho looks to Provi-
dential aid for a return to prosperity, just as
New South Wales Premiers are accustomed to
saddle Divine Authority with responsibility of
creating, as well as the work of paying off, deficits,
but if So the fact is not stated. Even if any such
aid be relied upon, the Conservative leader must
still stand revealed as a legislative impostor, and
his political creed be branded as mischievous
false, aud disastrous. Stubbornly and successfully
the Tories have resisted all important reforms in
the State, mainly because such beneficial change
would have stripped them of the monopolies, and
the privileges, which have brought the present
calamity upon the nation. Salisbury cannot
pretend that this depression crushes in its grip
England’s peers or England’s clergy : their incomes
may. be ait'ected, their capital even in some cases
may be reduced, but they know no depression of
the kind which afflicts England's poor. Workers
may slip down the plane of starvation into
crowded graves, but “my Lord" can still swill
champagne and revel in p&tte-de-foi-gras • un-
distinguished laymen may end the hopeless battle
of life by a plunge in the river, but “my Lord
Bishop ’ renounces not one fraction of his indul-
gence in the good things of the world. Cottages
may become hovels, houses may fall to ruin, but
the castles of the peers and the palaces of bishops


are dally renewed with fresh evidences of ex-
travagance. In this era of depression Eng-
land has continued to increase wondrously
in wealth, but that wealth has entered
the wrong channels. Paraphrasing Scrip-
ture it may be truly said that he who had
has taken more, and from him who had not has
been taken, even his means of life, and life itself.
The depression and misery that cannot be ex-
aggerated do not arise from the want of national
wealth but from the fact that riches are mono-
polised. Any legislation that would lead to a
more equitable division would cure at least a por-
tion of the misery. The Duke of Rutland advise 3
a return to Protection as a cure for the national
evil, but this would be only a partial remedy.
The depression arises mainly from the fact that
industry has to carry the taxation harden of the
nation while gilded idleness is supported by the
sweat of the workers. Labour has to bear the
cost of Government, the cost of support-
ing a host of coronetted peers and mitred
bishops, and the charge of supporting and en-
riching a trib9 of monopolists ; so encumbered
the thew and sinew of the nation prove incapable
of raising up national prosperity as well—“wealth
accumulates’’ but “mendeoay.” Let the incidence
of taxation be upon the land, let the privileges of
the peers, and the privileges of the clergy be broken
down and then Labour relieved of its fetters will
be potent to win back prosperity to the country.
Protection would cause a revival in internal trade,
and would lead to an extension of agriculture but
could not atone to the workers for all the disabili-
ties under which tjiey now suffer* and oould not
materially alter the distribution of wealth so long
as the present vicious social system prevails.
England’s ills are too deep to be entirely cured by
a return to Protection. Even Salisbury, himself,
an opponent of Freetrade, admits this, and that
admission should go far to hasten the downfall of
privileges and the bursting up of monopolies
“ Out and clear the way,” is England’s long-de
layed order to the peers : this confession by Salis
bury should lead bhe way to an early adoption o
that command.
“ An Intelligent Reading.”
The Sydney Echo regards the New South Wales
Savings Bank return as a “ reassuring document,’
because the figures show that depositors had a
the end of 1886 £61,843 more to their credit than
at the end of 1885.
“ Savings bank returns,” says the Echo, “ may be looktx
upon as the financial pulse of the working classes; ant
though they require, like pulste, intelligent reading
this much may be ascertained from them without much risk
of mistake—that, in spite of bad times, more money is being
aved.”
From these premisses the inference is drawn that
the ‘ ‘ recent outcry for Government work was
abnormal.” It is difficult to see where the “in
telligence” is shown in such a reading as this
Far from being “reassuring,” this return is
strongly indicative of social retrogression. The
increase in the amount to credi: of depositors is
only 320 per cent., tbtft is, 2.80 per cant
less than the amount of iuterest paid for the
year. As a matter of fact the deposits for the
year were £42,676 less than the withdrawals
in spite of the 70,000 increase of popula
tion during the same term. Had the balances
been in proportion to the total population, there
would have been an increase of 8 per cent, in the
outstanding balanoes during the year, irrespective
of any additions by way of interest. But, as we
have shown, there was an actual decrease of 3 80
per oent., so tiiat, taking deposits and payments
and comparing them with population, there ap
peart a relative decrease of 10.80 per oent.
despite the fact that the rate of interest was a
the high figure of 6 per oent., a higher rate than
oould be secured by deposits in an ordinary bank
—a rate also which a coo ants for the large increase
reported in balances of £lOO and over. To re
conoile these figures with supposed prosperity of
the lower classes is an achievement only possible
to “ intelligence ” of the Echo order. It is need
less to add by way of comment that suoh “ intel-
ligence ” is not calculated to commend itself to
any but Echo intellect?.
A Brilliant Celebration
There is something singularly appropriate in the
system by which the Queen’s Jubilee is being oele-
rated in India. Orders have been given that the
country is to rejoice, and the country is rej icing
accordingly ; if it doesn’t rejoice enough ofders
will probably be issued for the niggers to turn on
more steam, to jump higher and shout louder,
and hang out more lanterns, and they will obey.
The aged hermit whose soldiers trod them down
when they strove for indepondenoe, and whoee
offioers ordered their prinoeq to be blown into in-
distinguishable fragments from the oannon’s
mouth has got a jubilee, and though many mil-
lions of Hindoos would feel quite as enlightened
if they were told she had neuralgia or had bought
a pap-bottle, they are keeping high oarnival over
the event, and the whole territory from the
Himalayas to the rea is in gala dross. Twenty-
five thousand thieves and debtors have been re-
leased from gaol that they may do honour to the
Queen of the brigand nation which sjple their coun-
try and their liberties ; 76 decorations have been
oonferred on as many dark-skinned parasites who
have done good service in rivetting foreign chains
on their brethren ; religious prooeseions are being
conducted, and ox eyed woodoo gods are humped
about in gilded hand-barrows as solemn
proofs that the Bible is not the only
source of Eogla d’s greatne.s ; and every-
body tries to forget that the men who
take part in these sham rejoicings would gladly
gird on their swords again and make the Jumna
and the Ganges run red wi h the blood of their
oppressors if the time were only ripe for the enter-
prise. In Mandalay, the capital of the last stolen
kingdom which owns British sovereignty, the
troops have the Jubilee all to themselves, but
even there it is being kept up amid the ruins of
the burnt city, and flags are flying and cannons
booming among the smouldering palaces and
temples whose smoke goes up to heaven as a
visible sign of the benifioence of Britain and
Britain’s Queen. Busin©*#, of course, must be
attended to even at this time of rejoicing, and
any captured patriots will doubtless be murdered
as usual, Jubilee or no Jubilee, but it may interest
these martyrs to know that the sovereign in whose
name they are slaughtered has now reigned for
half a century, and that her troops are still
slaying for her honour and glory with undiminished
vigour. In Burmah, at all events, the great cele-
bration is a saturnalia of bloodshed and ©ursee
and plunder ; it is a carnival of massacre
and vio'ence —the darkest and dreariest amid
the many evil ©mens of this gloomy festi-
val The Indian Jubilee is the rejoicing of
fools who are blind to the signs of approach-
ing danger on every hand. Even now a Chinese
army of imknown strength is reported to be pour-
ing into Upper Burmab, and Britain may be on the
verge of a conflict with the armed and countless
millions of the Mongol Emperor. At the other ex-
tremity of India, Abdurrahman Kiian, Ameer
of Afghanistan, and almost the only ally Britain
now possesses on eapth, is fighting for his crown
and his life against the mountain tribes, who are
armed and subsidised by Russia ; if he had
fallen two months ago the present celebration
might have been interrupted by the Muscovite
bayonets pouring into Cashmere and across the
Five Rivers, but luckily he is i till on his throne,
so the Indian Government go in for fireworks and
let everything else slide. Britain’s Asiatic
Empire is overshadowed <on either hand by two
huge enemies, who are wisely spending their
resources in bayonets and bullets instead of in
jubilees.
Parkes’ team, whatever other fame they achieve,
have already gained a name for their frothy
humour and telling repartee. They are a jovial
lot, as funny as a dozen clowns and not altogether
unlike them in appearance, and the style of
humour they affect. The gray old flshfag him-
self has said some rather neat things of the
“ withered tarantula ” and “ craven-spiritec
poodle” order, and the Hon. Tommy Garrett
(The Only Cne—thank heaven) does his best to
ensure plenty of amusement, of a sort, but the
“Lion comique ” of the troupe is evidently the
Hon. (how strange the title first sounds when
applied to a man wbo has not formerly been en
titled by law to the affix !) the Hon. W. Clarke
who starred recently at Grenfell, in opposition to
the rival show of Mr. Vaughn His choicest
retort is said to have been made in answer to
question by a local magistrate, the Minister with
exquisite humour professing to find in the ques
tioner the Soudan ass which has now been missing
for so long. Another happy effort of repartee
was applauded when allusion was made to the
allegation that another questioner had failed to
pay more than 2s. 6d. in the £ to his creditors.
The person *1 appearance of another elector was
wittily commented upon, but the mental dullness
of the audience largely discounted the joke. The
performance of this rising statesman is all the
more praiseworthy as the prevailing interruptions,
consequent upon what the audience wrongly con-
strued as a threat that if Mr. Vaughn were
elected no Government money would be spent in
Grenfell, prevented the humourist from accepting
all the opportunities of the occasion. But how-
ever gaily the colleagues of Parkes may je3t they
can never excel in that regard their chief, who
indulged in the greatest practical joke on record
in making them Ministers. We have always con-
sidered practical joking as a most reprehensible
practice, but this specimen of the art has pro-
duced the worst results known to New South
Wales history.
♦
H. Mortimer Franklyn, a bankrupt Melbourne
journalist whose furniture was settled on his wife,
has shifted his location to London, and is running
for a title instead of bothering about his certifi
cate. He poses as a “ representative Australian, ’
and for length, breadth, width, and depth of
greasy grovel he has no equal. His latest work,
“ The Unit of Imperial Federation,” is written to
prove that Wales by his “ modesty,” his “perfect
taste,” his “genius for blending refractory ele-
ments,” and hiskill in driving hogs, ha 3 solved
the Federal picb'em. His miserable “ Institute ”
reveals “ the unit of Federation and the men
who have charge of the exhibits, the doorkeepers,
the wooden-legged paupers who go round to
dust the plumage of the kangaroos, and the
other hangers-on “ must ultimately develope
into the Imperial Council of the British Empire,”
and among their duties will be that of “taxing
the colonies to produce some of the sinews of
war.” Mortimer Franklyn, according to ihe
revelations made during his bankruptcy proceed-
ings, is a gentleman who travels about very fast
and never stops Jong in one place. He did an
awful insolvency in Colifornia and paid next to
nothing in the £, aid tnen, leaving his divorced
wife behind him—the unlucky lady's money hav-
ing been all spent before the divorce —he came to
Australia and married another lady with coin,
and sett o l ihe furniture on 1 er, and went
broke aga n. lie iu flying carpetbagger, with a
perennial supply of nsw pants and a watch-chain
that could hold a whale, and now that he has
found the “ Unit of Imperial Federation,” he will
probably die a K.C.M.G.
The “loyal” Press of Victoria is fast b coming
an afilic l ion and a boie. The following extract
from a Melbourne p iper will fully explain what
we mein :
“ The lands belonsc to the Crown, and the Crown lands of
Victoria have been freely given to the people. The gold be-
longs to the Crown, and the gold of Victoria to. the enormous
£200,000.000, has been freely given to the people
This is an unhistorlcal elongation of the truth —in
other worda, it is mendacious, wormy grovel of
the grovelleat descrip' ion. The lands of Victoria,
or any other Australian colony, do not belong to
the Crown but to the country, and they have not
been given to the people, for the people have paid
for them in a thousand different ways. Even if
some of the earliest pioneers gave no money vahe
for their holdings, yet they risked their lives
and often lost them in opening the way to coloni-
sation. But among the large footmarks left by
these heavy-shod adventurers on Australian soil
there is no imprint to show that the Brodignagian
hoof of the Crown wai ever planted where there
was danger to be encountered or work to be done.
The labouier is worthy of his hire, and it is to
the Australian labourer, whose hands turned
the desert into a garden that the land belongs—
not to tho far-away gilded potentate who
only looked on while her subjects were doubling
the wealth of her empire. On similar principles,
it is too late to recall the o’d fiction that the gold
belongs to the Crown, and it is an insult to say
that the Crown “gave” the gold to the people.
If the Crown had wasted only one ounce of its
too solid flesh in driving the pick or the spade
under the burning sun of Australia there might
have been something in its claim, but it did
nothing of the kind. The generations who lived
fast and died fast a* - . Bendigo and Ballarat owe
royalty no gratitude for permitting them to reap
the reward of their own toils and dangers. They
dug deep down into God’s earth to obtain the
treasures which God Himself had placed there,
and—this cringing, latter-day prophet to the con-
trary notwithstanding—neither the agricultui ist
aor the miner owe any particular jubilee grovel to
a distant monarch whom few of them have ever
seen, and who never did anything for them or
gave them anything.
The quality of mercy was certainly not
unduly strained in the case of John Hlton, who
has just completed a record of 17 years in Pent-
ridge Gaol. In 1866, Elton, who was then a
schoolmaster, was found guilty of killing a child,
during a fit of temporary insanity, and sent up for
life. His insanity was so evident, however, that
he was placed in the lunatic asylum, where he
remained four years, and on being discharged he
was at once pounced upon by a defective with a
“ heye like an’awk,” and run in to Pentridge where
he has remained ever sin Ge.
Freetrade and Protection.
In last issue, without prejudice to the principles
hitherto urged by The Bulletin, we published a
forceful, if imperfect, letter from a workman, who
professed to see in the present fiscal controversy in
New South Wales a mere conspiracy of capitalists.
With similar irresponsibility as to its arguments
we now publish a reply to that letter :
F ditor Bulletin. —Sir, —ln your last issue you
publish a letter from a working man, “F.G.A.,”
upon which I desire to offer a few observations, as
it expresses erroneous opinions that are, I believe,
held by a large section of the working classes on
the question of wages, of labour, and profits of em-
ployers. The writer of that article expresses very
graphically the views and opinions of maDy, that
while the great advances in science, mechanical
invention, and organised system, are all calcu-
lated to lighten the toil of physical labour, and
make life better worth living for, that up to the
present time, the masses have not derived the
amount of benefit which they had a right to ex-
pect. That while the standard of living and
comfort has been raised throughout most civi-
lised nations, and with a sma’ler amount of physi-
cal toil, this gain has been ba'anced by
increased difficulty in securing this im-
proved standard. In short that the benefits have
flowed into the wrorg channels making the rich
richer and the poor poorer. This opinion is not
condned to working men but is held and more
clearly. recognised by a large number o: the most
advanced thinkers of the present age, who while
agreeing on the main causes differ widely as to
the best remedy for curing or mitigating the evil.
It is a subject on which I have spared neither time
nor attention to procure the be3t information, and
have given it more sustained thought than any
other question, but none of these advanced
thinkers have ever even suggested that Freetrade
or Protection forms part of the causes of the evil
or could form any portion of a remedy, A little
knowledge in this case has been a dangerous
thing to your correspondent. He sees and deplores
the existing evil but attributes it to a wrong cause
and then jumps to the conclusion that nothing
short of full socialism will bring about a remedy,
and that this would be effectual in enabling us to
oompete against the pauper labour of Europe. Now
while I hold that the benefit to bs anticipated
from the adoption of a system of Socialism is at
the present time an open question, I maintain that
the difference in values, rates of wages, and scale of
living between tbi3 country and Europe is too
great to enable us to compete with European
manufactured goods. We are in a still worse
position with regard to India and China. They
have labour at rates which, when aided by Euro-
pean machinery, will produce manufactured goods
at prices below the figure at which we can com-
pete with them, at least until we have reduced
our standard of living nearly to theirs. “ F.G.A.”
states that 60 and 70 per cent, of the wealth
created by labour goes into the pockets of
the employers ; or, perhaps more fairly, that
the working classes are robbed to this ex-
tent. But surely the case is weakened, not
strengthened, by this gross exaggeration.
Further on he s*»tes also that manufacturers,
wholesale merchants, and importers, are reaping
20, 30, and 10 per cent, profit. I am sure these
classes would be glad if “F.G.A." could prove his
statement to be true. Any of the men will know
from sad experience that this is a wild, reckless,
and baseless assertion, fit only to be made by the
Freetrade Association or Parkes on the stump. It
is a pity that a letter, marked by great ability in
some portions, should be marred by such trashy
and extreme assertions. Instead of the classes
named reapicg large profits they have not for the
past two years made bank interest; and, as re-
gards manufacturers, the greater number of them
have, instead of making bank interest, lost large
portions of their capital through continuing to pay
higher rates of wages than the competition with
imported goods would allow. To lessen or avoid
this loss they have lately decreased their produc-
t on, and the result is that a large number of men
are without any employment; for it is beyond
the power of employers and workmen combined
to make goods here if the cost of production ex-
ceeds the cost of importing the same kinds of
goods “ F.G.A.” only states the opinions of a
large number of his clas3in attributing the wrongs
of labourers to their employers. They shut their
eyes to the fact that the profits of employers are
rtgulated by competition in the same way as the
price of goods. While labour is led by such igno-
rant views on the relations between employers
and workmen, the working-men will in the future
as in the past be powerful only to obstruct useful
measures and powerless to carry any into law.
They have in the past and will in the future be
led off the track by violent advocates like
“ F.G A.” and wily politicians like Sir Henry
Parkes, who told the working-men that Freetrade
would provide as much employment at as high
rates of wages as Protection. They will soon
discover their mistake when confronted by a
general reduction in wages or a decreased amount
of euployaent.—Yours, &c.,
A.FORSYTH.
A few months ago an unlucky mariner
named Captain Sorensen was sentenced by the
Queensland courts to a long term of penal servi-
tude for offences committed on the high seas.
There was something mysterious about his case,
one charge after another breaking down igno-
miniously, and a fresh one being brought up after
each failure, until the impression prevailed that
he was being hounded down with persistent
ingenuity by somebody in power. Among the
witnesses against him were several alleged muti-
neers and deserters, some of whom had them,
selves been guilty of very dark deeds among the
natives in the South Seas, but their evidence was
taken without question, and their own misdeeds
allowed to drop out of sight. The cook of his vessel
brought —or was persuaded to bring —a charge of
assault, though he himself admitted in private
that his affair had been only a rough-and-tumble,
in which he and the captain both hit out hard,
and which ended in complete friendship, and by
these and other means Sorensen at last found
himself sentenced to spend the best part of his
manhood in penal servitude. StraLgely enough,
however, some of the chief witnesses against him
have now relented, and have announced publicly
that they were forced to give evidence by threats
levelled at them by the Government officials, and
that they swore Sorensen’s liberty away as the
only means of saving their own. That eminent
friend of the coloured races, Sir Sawmill Griffith,
left for England on Imperial Conference business
just at this unpleasant juncture, but it would be
interesting to discover if his colleagues can be
made to tell whether the 3 e psculiar witnesses per-
jured themselves ki court, or lied in their recent
recantation.
CORRESPONDENCE
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MSS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of such
“ Justitia” : You write of an illiterate J.P. as
!Ln < L Were a new species altogether. Why as far back as
1660 the gentle Pepys wrote in his famous diary, “I was sworn
in to-day a Justice of Peace, and am mightily pleased,
Oiough I must confess I am wholly ignorant of the duties.”
The only difference between your magisterial mudhead and
Pepys is the latter was a fool—in a judicial sense—and knew
it, whereas the former will die in the firm belief that he was
a sort of Solomon, Ooke, Blackstone, and Darley all rolled
into one—“J.P.W.” (Tumut): A. wins the bet. Gold was
discovered in this colony in small quantities long before the
Hargraves nugget of '5l. The first mention made of it occurs
in an official document, dated some ten years previous, which
tells of a certain convict who produced a piece of gold and
said he found it, but being unable to point out the exact
spot, or discover more when commanded, he was accused of
having stolen a gold watch and melted it down, and was
thereupon treated to 150 lashes. After this he seems t o have
lost all interest in gold discoveries. A Scotch shepherd
named M'Gregor from time to time brought small nuggets
to Sydney after this, some time before the Ophir boom.
C -nterbury Freetrader ” : The compilation of an “ Orange
teket," or a “Catholic ticket” in N.S.W. elections is about
the most fruitful of all sources of evil administration. The
sectarian parties who would rather vote for an idiot or
schemer of their “color” than for a good man who will not
truckle to bigotry, are the curse of colonial politics. Parkes
himself is mainly responsible for the bitter hostility of
the j ellow and tbe green, and politics will always be pol-
luted by bigotry while he remains in power or in Parliament
The Orange members in the House are always the weakest
and worst of the weak and bad...." Paul Seraph”: If you
are a seraph you have not yet learnt to sing in verse..
“ Yeriap": The Sydney Supreme Court is so blocked with
business that there is no chance of anyone running a libel
suit through in lest than two years, but all the same we
don’t yearn for a chance of printing your screed.... “C H ’’•
Your poem opens well with the lines :
“ The Cardinal slept in the Cardinal's bed
And the ghost of an Archbishop stood on his head ”
but thenceforth the dirge degenerates into an ' un-
happy combination of libel and hiccup “Bill
Booby”: Verse is good enough for a Jubilee" hymn
but the subject is weaker than a Cabinet Minister’s resolu’
tions regarding total abstinence.... “C. Harris ”: A valuable
suggestion. Some consideration is required as to ultimate
effect, but we will endeavour to adopt the idea “AH ”•
Local items useful and used...." J. w. Cotton ” (Forbes) •
Sir Henry Parkes has expressed his determination to get
more revenue out of leased land, land already sold, and
vacant Crown lands. How he will do it is at present an in
scrutable mystery. That the proceeds from sales of Crown
lands cannot be properly considered as revenue is incon-
testable ; and the fact that it has been so considered in the
past is the main cause of present difficulties...." Indepen-
dent Elector” Your verses “ written expressly for The
Bulletin” are scorching’y libellous, shaky as to metre, and
not either funny or severe. Of course we will give them a
show—but not in the paper.... “ Protection ' (Inverell): The
letter of J. Mcllveen forwarded proves at the least that the
vigorous thought of tt e rural intellect is sometimes capable
of comprehending bed-rock truths which the superficial
McMillans of the city can neither receive nor understand
“G L " (East Maitland): Several degrees too sultry.
We will treat it in another manner if space permits...!
“F.G.A.”: The Law of Nations has no defined remedy
against nations which repudiate their national debt. But
nations themselves generally step in to save the loaning
Shylock against his distressed debtor. Your friend who says
that the N.S.W. Government pays boys who gain honours at
State schools £47 a year to attend the University course
must have a large and varied stick of polished ignorance.
The Government “aint built that way.’’. .* G.M.”: Six columns
condensed blasphemy returned per post “Epicure”- We
certainly have remarked once or twice that the Melbourne
letter in the S.M. Herald was a literary oasis in a weary
wilderness of soul-depressing dulness, but letters change as
do their writers, and we are not now prepared to say that
there is less gloom in the Melbourne contribution to the
Herald than there is even in the dull discourses of Parson
Jefferis...." J.F.”: Not up to former efforts. In fact, not
up to anything much in the way of poetry “Prosody”:
Can’t touch it. If we were to start correcting the grammati-
cal errors of past and present Premiers we would have no
need of other employment in this world “E. Logan'
(Tumbulgum): The luxury of donating to a church is not
often permitted to pressmen. What has Boshway, the
Burmese chief, done that you don’t try him ? Also, what’s
the matter with Kalakaua, King of Hawaii ? He floated a
loan recently and is just the sort of Kanaka to help the
cause “R.H.M.8.,” “Bona-fide Selector,” “ F.M.G.
“F. H. Adams’’: Kindly accept our thanks for useful sug-
gestions...." Pat ’’ (Suramerhill): What have we ever done
to you that you should assault us with your doggerel ?..
“L.0.L.”: Yes, but there is a big difference. In America
you see, it is Triumphant Democracy; in N.S.W., Trium-
phant Hypocrisy....“A.E.C.”: Somewhat amateurish....
“Con. Lindsay": Begret that we cannot use your essay
Mr. Archibald is away from Sydney just now on a brief
holiday....“G. Perkins” (Melbourne): Cutting to hand.
We don’t care tuppence whether Braham Jerry paid Tenny-
son for putting him in his recent poem or not. TenDyson is
coming down so low now that an “ Ode to a Hen on its Last
Legs” is just about his size, but we don’t suppose he would
poetise Berry without the names of two respectable house-
holders on the back of the bi 11...." Beta” : “I write in pitch
darkness” is all of your letter that we can decipher. Try a
candle next time. MS. held for translation “Amor”-
We can’t answer your concluding conundrum : “ Will this be
so when she and me shall meet again ?” but certainly hope it
won’t, if the fact of its being so incites you to more rhyming
Blobber “Boas”: Both ideas are bright. We will pro-
bably use one of them...." Quiz” : Your hints are as wel-
come to us as is the fat opossum to the uncultured aborigine.
''Radical” : John Bright has “.gone off.” His mental power
and physical force seem to have declined pari passu during
the last decade “Popping the Question ” : Several times
we have seen worse lines than yours. But not much worse
“Honest Injun”: We want “copy” always. But the
stuff you send is merely the front section of a literary dust-
heap. .. .“Carl ” : There is ouly one weary and wan old joke
n all your screed, and that is your request that we will pay
for your matter at “ the usual rate.” Our basket has “no
usual rate” “C.B. (Nerriga): Can find no trace of your
VIS., and do not remember to have seen it....“ Argo ” : We
don’t know for certain that Mr. George Campbell was for-
merly a Protectionist, and are not aware that he is now a
‘ fierce Freetrader.” And we see no reison to suspect that
lis conversion, if he was converted, had anything to do with
he existence of vacancies in the Legislative Council....
‘Victim (Uralla): Having contracted to pay up for'the
look \ou must do so, although the rolume may be as
‘ multy ” as most of Parkes’ nominee councillors.
‘ Harold”: There is nothing new under the sun, but that is
no reason wry you should ring in a pile ■ f hpary old chest-
nuts on us.. . “ Constant Reader.” “ M.G.", “A Kalkerioon ’’
‘ T. B.” (Newtown), “ A G.,” ‘ W. Hirhett," " J.C.H.,” and
many others : M.SS. receivtd and now under consideration..
‘ G.W.C. : Baker and Farron opened at Sydney ''Royal
So. Nothing on when Exhibition was “ cremated.”


The Keferee
“ Like jellyfish without a backbone ” was
the verdict of the general public upon hearing
tha, the committee in connection with the recent
“ mixed ” bicycle races had reversed their dec
sion of Monday week last, and awarded the te
mile prize to Bennett. At a subsequent meetin
of the N.3.W. Cyclists’ Union, a motion w
brought forward with regard to the alleged u
satisfactory running in the event, when men wh
had been the loudest in their denunciations ou
side voted against the motion, and it was los
The Bulletin prophesied all this trouble whe
the meeting was first mooted. As well try
mingle oil and water as amateurs and profe
sionals on the racing track.
* * *
“ Foley’s ” was crowded on Saturday nig]
at ‘ half-a-caser a nob,” when two fights “to
finish” were billed—Murphy and Burgess anc
Nolan and Fogarty. The first-named pair too
possession of Ihe hoards shortly after 8 o’cloc
when some heavy work was indulged in, Murph
bringing the ruby from his opponent's eye an
ear, and Burgess returning the compliment wit
a heavy right-hander on Murphy's left ear. Fora
hour-and-a-half the men fought, Murphy severe
punishing, but unable to knock out his opponen
who is a perfect glutton at taking punishmen
Lawrence Foley then asked Murphy to make
draw of it, but this the little ’un refused to d
and the fight continued. At 11 o’clock Burge
appeared pretty well done up, but the minute
rest pulled him together again, and the slaughte
ontinued for another three rounds, when a dra
was declared, both men and the audience appea
ing full of the affair. Buigess weighs lOst. 101 b
against Murphy’s Bst. 61b., but Murphy’s scienc
more than balances Burgess’s weight, and, barrin
a chance blow from the heavier man, Murph;
must have won if the bout had been fought out
The Carington “Electric Light” Hand
cap came to a conclusion on Saturday night, th
winner turning up in T T. Burns, 32 yards
Samuels, the aboriginal crack, who was on th
10yds. mark, met defeat at the liand3 of th
winner in the eighth heat. Samuels came ver;
strong at the finish, but was unable to make anj
thing like a close thing of it with Burns.
The follow ing were the yachts, with thei
handicaps, w-hich put in an appearance on Satui
day to sail the Curl Curl course for a £25 prize i
connection with the R.S.Y.S : Sirocco, 10 tons
scratch ; Harpy, 10 tons, scratch ; Carina, 2 tons
lmin. 3sec. ; Sao, 6 tons, smin. 2sec. ; Assegai
6 tons, smin. 2sec. The wind was light fron
K.N.E., and the first boat to finish was theSirocc
some 12 minutes ahead of the Assegai. Th
Harpy was under pleasure sails, and the light ai
gave her new owner, Dr. Williams, no chance o
taking her into a prominent position.
The American boxers, John L. Sterget
better known as “ Young Mitchell,” and Martii
Costello, have taken up their quarters at Ton
Taylor’s at Randwick. Foley has given them the
use of his hall for a benefit, and the event comes
off this (Thursday) evening, when the Yankees
will no doubt show, for the first time in the colo
ni.s, the sort of science they are possessed of.
* * *
The Victoria v. South Australia match was
fimshed off in a remarkably expeditious manner
as soon as it was understood that the teams were
to be picnicked if Giffen’s men had a day to spare
before going on to Ballarat. As the Victorians
set them a fairly big deficit to wipe out, the visi
tors had no alternative between losing the game
or forfeiting chicken and champagne at Mordial-
loc. They lost the game and got the poultry.
The feature of this show was MTlwraith’s innings
of 72, which included 10 fours, 1 five, and only i
singles. Another feature was the putting forward
of the original Bulletin suggestion respecting
six-ball overs. This match was played under the
old wearying conditions, but it is satisfactory to
find that the V. and S.A. Association delegates
will “recommend recourse to six-ball overs” in
intercolonial matches played under the auspices of
both Associations. If the happy and united
N.S.W. body persists in sticking to the idiotic
four-ball rule, it will be only out of pure cussed-
ness and contrariness of spirit.
The well-known racing 24-footer, the Car-
iotta, is to be r .filed for — l2o members at a guinea.
It seems a curio us thing that owners always try
to sell or raffle their boats at the end of the season
wnen they can’t be got rid of at any price. If
they were to lay the Carlotta up till next season
she would sell readily enough.
Cannon and Donald are to have another
gate-money go in at the Alexandra Theatre, Mel-
bourne, on March oth This time they wrestle in
seven style 3, and if there is money in the affair it
is safe to predict that the lo3er will express him-
self as “dissatisfied” with anything less than
nine styles. And so on.
Now that poor M‘Gowan has lost an eye
the Caulfield authorities have decided to make an
alteration in their steeplechase course. Hence-
forth horses will start in the straight, and thus
avoid the necessity of taking the first jump before
getting fairly into their stride. The old murderous
arrangement should have been altered long ago.
Somt of the Melbourne tout 3 maintain
that Maddel.na must beat Volcano in the New-
market Handicap, if she gets away kindly. With
a lively remembrance of the mare s past vagaries, we
should say that “if" was a very important factor
in the agreement. There are whispers, too, that
Bonnie Doon will win a big race during the
meeting.
Gas is to be laid on at Randwick. As a
provision against Mr. Devlin’s delays in starting,
we suppose.
* » *
We have imported a man at great expense
to dream tips for races. His latest is that he
dreamt he was out on an exposed heath, where he
met a shadowy bookmaker. He asked the book
whit was going to wii the Newmarket Handi-
cap, to which the shadowy one replied enigmati-
cally “ Beware of the day.” Our dreamer woke
up supposing ha hat got a tip to leave it alone,
but on thinkiac: the matter over the lines occurred
to him “ l.ochiel, i ochiel, beware of the day!”
and he has now pawned his pants and invested the
cash on LoohieL
Mitchell is a ’Frisco lad, and owns to 20
years of age, stands sft. 6in., atd his fighting
weight is 9st 101 b. In April, 1885, he beat Jack
Keenan, champion light-weight of America, in 35
rounds, which took 2hrs. 37min. In April of the
same year he knocked out Peter O’Brien in 8
rounds. Mitchell has fought and conquered Jack
Campbe’l James Johnson (of London), Charles
Kohler, Bob Turnbull, Bill Hamilton (twice), and
Boh Cleary, all well-known men on the Pacific
Slope.
# * *
In the “ electric-light ” J. Gately, of Vic-
toria, favourite for both heat and final, was dis-
qualified for 12 months. He deliberately stopped
twice. He ought to have been connected with
both poles of the apparatus.
This is the very latest from the provincial
cricket-fields. Wicket does a smart piece of
stumping and appeals, “ How’s that ? ” Umpire :
“Not out." Wicket-keeper: “Why he was a
yard from the crease! ” Umpire : “P’raps. Bow-
lin’s I’olds with, and catches is all right; but
none of your hanky panky for me.” That umpire
will probably go for Parliament next election. His
haughty contempt for trickery stamps him as a
worthy supporter of Parkes, Clarke, Garrett and
Co.
There was not the howl of excitement
about the international, England v. New South
A SPIRITED POLITICAL LEADER.
Mr. Joseph Abbott has this time gone to the boundaries of the colony for a seat.
He will contest Wentworth Plains. ” —Sydney Paper.
MR. J. P. ABBOTT: “IHAVE MADE UP MY MIND TO RETIRE FROM POLITICAL
TIFE: I WILL NOT ASK YOU TO ADMIT ME TO THE HOUSE AGAIN". (Aside.)
NO I WONT EITHER, I’LL JUST TRY AND CR[?]WL IN AT THIS WENTWORTH
WINDOW."
Wales, cricket match that used once to be an
incident of such contests. Somehow public interest
has begun to pall on these affairs a little, and,
although the attendance is good, the interest is
painfuTy adiacent to zero. The prime feature of
this most recent struggle, ending in a win for the
locals by 122, was the exceptional feat achieved by
Turner, who collared 14 wickets for 59 runs—a
record worthy of abundant kudos in view of the
men in the opposing team.
The Victorian Cyclists Union has called
upon Con Dwyer in connection with the “ mixed”
races, to show cause why his amateur status
should not be forfeited.
* * *
Mr. Kennedy, by his win of the Canter-
bury Handicap on Saturday, was not long in re-
couping the £BO he paid for Ellington so recently.
Ellington fell into Mr. Kennedy’s hands in rather
a peculiar manner. The story goes that Mr. !
L"ng, who was called away after the first race at
the recent Liverpool meeting, left word with a
trainer to buy the gelding in, should he win the I
belling Race. Elliogton duly won, and the trainer J
by some mistake being at another portion of th e
ground when the horse was put up, he fell to his
present owner a gift at £80.
THE V.R C. AUTUMN MEETING.
This meeting commences this Saturday after-
noon at Flemington, and will be continued on
Thursday and Saturday next. Our predictions are
as follows: —
Essendon Stak s, lj miles: Nelson, 1;
Arsenal, 2 ; Chesham, 3.
Ascot Vale Stakes, 6 furlongs : Bedouin, 1:
Hortense, 2 ; Abereorn, 3.
St. Leger Stakes, If miles, 132yds. : Trident,
1; Invei may, 2 ; First Consul, 3.
NewmarketHandicap, 6 furlongs: First Game,
1; William Tell, 2 ; Chicago, 3. Best outsiders :
Pomona and St. Leonards.
Hopeful Stakes, 5 furlongs : The Telegram,
1 ; Aberdeen, 2 ; Zingara, 3.
Brunswick Stakes, l.f miles : The Wreck or
The Orphan, 1 ; Claptrap, 2 ; Lord Wilton, 3.
Corinthian Cup, 1 mile : Abner, 1 ; Blue Bell,
2 ; Louis, 3.
Sires’ Produce Stakes, 6 furlongs : Moor-
house, 1 ; Absreorn, 2 ; Maxim, 3.
Hurdle Race, 2h miles: Blue Mountain 1 ;
Whalebone, 2 ; Encore, 3.
Australian Cup, 2j miles; Arsenal, 1;
Abuse, 2 ; Nelson or Trident, 3.
Steeplechase, 3 miles: Atlas, 1 ; Royal Oak,
2 ; Banker, 3.
Maiden Stakes, lj mile3: Hexham, 1 ; Duf-
ferin, 2 ; Master Jack, 3.
Champion Stakes, 3 miles: Trident, 1 ;
Arsenal, 2 ; Chesham, 3.
All-aged Stakes, 1 mile : Hortense, 1 ;
Sumatra, 2 ; Moorhouse, 3.
An American scientific journal gravely
states that “ the Bi-hop of Melbourne has ordered
prayers to be offered up that rabbits may not be-
come mothers, all endeavours to exterminate
them having proved fruitless.” What, we would
respectfully ask, are they giving us 1
There are three duly qualified doctors and
one duly qualifle 1 chemist in the Bathurst Munici-
pal Council at present. All that’s wanted now is
the election of a coroner, an undertaker, a grave-
digger, and a couple of purple-nosed mutes to
make it the gravest assembly outside of Rook-
wood.
Of the coming Parliament’s programme
the Sydney Globe, with what would seem to be
fiendish malignity, observes : ‘ 'Suppose, for in-
j stance. Sir Henry tried his hand at amending the
j insolvency law.” H.s the Globe never heard of
the little adage which says : “ Burnt children
dread the fire ? ”
A New Hebridean chief died the other
day, and the Brisbane Courier tells how his wiv. s
“tied rope-vines round their necks and moaned
themselves to death.” We never believed before
that moaning was so fatal. Parkes has been
doing that and cursing, turn about, for 50 years
and he is pretty solid yet on his alabaster limbs.
Possibly however, the cursing acted as an anti-
dote to the moaning and freshened him up.
Two young Frenchmen living in a village
in Morbihan (France) conceived the idea that
their younger sister was possessed of a devil.
Accordingly they tied her down on a bed, and,
with the assistance of their mother and elder
sister, bored holes with a screw in her legs,
breasts, and head to let the demon escape. They
only succeeded in killing the girl.
A New Zealand lady left a large kettle full
of boiling water on her kitchen floor while she
went upstairs to brush a cobweb off the ceiling of
the bedroom. In her absence the baby sat down
on the kettle, and the local paper, after describing
the funeral, gives half a column of gush about the
grief-stricken mother. Nobody seems to have any
thought for the sudden grief that overwhelmed
the baby when it made that unlucky sit down.
Cause and effect. Dean Sheridan absent
from Sydney—John Davies squelched. Ora pro
nobis.
The New Zealanders imported Sydney’s own
dear “ Nosey Bob” to hang those two dead shots
Caffrey and Penn. Bob’s popularity has gone up
since his famous Mount Rennie bungle.
“ T.C.” in one of the Sydney dailies sug-
gests that during the Jubilee Year Her Gracious
should be complimented with the additional title
of “ Empress of Australia.” This is a good idea
but we don’t know what Pinchgut and Gabo
Island have done that they should be neglected
while such titles are going. “ Empress of Aus-
tralia and Grand Mogul of Goat Island ” would
sound awfully well.
The Melbourne watpr famine is becoming
really interesting. The Preston reservoir is a °
last reduced to a mere cake of mud. and now there
is only a single pipe to ameliorate the thirst of a
whole city. But still there is one thing that
ripples along with a cool and even flow—and that
is the stream of explanations by which the Water
Supply Department are prepared to prove that a
wa’er famine with the thermometer at 102 deg. is
quite the correct caper.
At Lyons (France) a comic and humorsome
individual resolved to stick nails in some people
just for the fun of seeing them jump. Accord-
ingly, he got a bombshell about ten times the size
of Hoddle Doddle White’s emu-egg, loaded it up
with spikes and dynamite, and, entering into the
congregation of the just, planted it underneath
the holy water-bag. If it had gone off it is im-
possible to tell how many people might have been
hit with fragments of broken-up worshipper, but
luckily a policemen who was watering himself at
the fountain sighted it and carried it out.
Already Sir Henry Parkes has found that
the Premiership is not the very rosiest of billets.
The particular trouble is in connection with the
ad valorem duties. His “ staunch-freetrader ’
followers say that ho must repeal these at once,
but as maty of his pasty have taken hustings
oaths to prevent such a repeal, there is likely to
be a whole heap of difficulty over the question.
Parkes prophesies that he will lead Parliament
during its term of three years ; other less exalted
critics do not predict more than 12 months’ power
for his “ triumphant majority ”
The Qucanbeyan election was lively while
it lasted. The Freetraders threw their full force
against E. W. O’Sullivan, but, aided by his enthu-
siastic supporters, he beat them all along the lii.e.
Tompsitt only secured majorities in three strong-
holds of squatterdom, and though he received
fully half the navvy vote, he was unable to come
within 170 of “ the keystone of the Democratic
arch." Money was poured out like water on be-
ha f of Freetrade. The O’Sullivan addressed no less
than 36 meetings during the campaign. Wherever
six men could be propped up against a haystack,
threshing machine, or public-house he went out
and orated. It is little wonder, therefore, that
Protection scored one in that electorate. It wi'l
be a bold man who will venture to oppose the pre-
sent victor at Queanbeyan next time.
Coming events cast their shadows before
them, and the Jubilee shadow promises to be a
very long and diity one. Two army corps are
being mobilised in England, and the naval depart-
ment is shovelling fresh coal on the fire and get-
ting up steam. All the naval pensioners who
have been discharged as worn-out during the last
20 years have also been notified that they may
again be wanted for active service, and weeping
friends are bursting themselves hollering through
ear-trunuets in their efforts to make these deaf,
blind, old timber-toed wrecks understand that
their country calls them. The Tory Government
intimates that all this fus 3 is by way of celebrating
the Queen’s Jubilee, and judging from the reckless
outlay that is going on for the purpose of getting
a lot of bony centenarians into uniform the
jubilee will cost about as much as a war—and a
pretty big war at that.
William Henry Davis is a man whose ideas
of justice’s justice are just a trifle mixed at pre-
sent. On Thure day last he toed the scratch at the
Redfern Court on a charge of hand-painting the
figure head of his wife, Ellen. The evidence
given by a number of neighbours, however, proved
tliat the biz. was the other way about altogether,
and that William Henry wasn’t enjoying even as
happy a life as a burglar’s dog, in consequence of
the treatment he was constantly receiving at
the hands of his fair Ellen. This lady was said to
have a temper, which, when in full blast, would
scare the soul out of a Solomon Islander’s wooden
god, and although her lord and master is
a martyr _to rheumatic gout, she frequently
him out, and made him camp at
night in a stable. One fine morning William
Henry went out to look for work, and when he re-
turned he found his angel wife had not only folded
her tent and stolen silently away, after the Arab
fashion, but she had folded the furniture and stolen
off with it as well. These things being proved
and many others strongly alleged, William Henry
submitted to the court that he was entitled to some
compensation and protection. The court thought
so too, and by way of puttkig the fear of
the law into Ellen ordered the pair to live apart
for three months, during which time William
Henry would have to allow his gentle spouse If 1 ?,
a week besides payirg 21s. down for professional
costs, or else do the usual alternative in gaol W.
H. did not say much, but he left the court
abruptly.
Some men have such a subtle sense of
humour that many of their jokes fall flat, simply
through the inability of those around to compre
hend the artful idea intended to be conveyed. JFcr
instance, we remember the case of a Frenchman
who, while slaying at a boarding-house in Auck-
land, crept into a fellow-lodger’s box and cut his
own throat, simply in order (as a note in his vest
explained) that he might enjoy the surprise of his
friend, who, when he went to look for a clean
shirt, would come upon the grinning head of a
dead man. Mr. W. C Leeder, lessee of the Bar
coo Hotel, Blackall (Q.), would seem to be a
humourist of the same type. On last Tuesday
week he made all arrangements for being mar-
ried on that day, and his friends rallied up to
congratulate him, and see him through, after
the custom of the simple Banaaalanders. Just as
ever} thing was nearly ready, however, the guests
were surprised on hearing pistol-shots fired in the
stables of the hotel, and, on rushing in, Leeder
was found lying behind some baggage with three
bullet-wounds in his head. The rest of the report
says he was “perfectly conscious and rational,
and aopeared to treat the matter as a joke. Two
bullets remain in his head, but he still lives.” The
wedding has been postponed, but when it does
come off we hope Mr. Leeder will lead a happy
life. Nothing like keeping up the joke.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Amid the con-
fusion of European
gabble-cram 3 —we
ought rather to say
cablegrams—and the outpour-
ings of election frenzy, it is
refreshing to take refuge in the
holy calm of the “ Shows.”
They are calm, of course, only
by comparison ; as a matter of
fact, the gallery heathen are
still ragirig, ard the larrikins in
the pit imagine a vain thing. Pastor Jefferis con-
tinues to protest against the threepenny drink
bureau at Sydney Criterion, but the coppers come
in at that establishment by the wheelbarrow-load,
while the report that three deacons at the Congre-
gational Courch had sprained their backs carry-
ing the heavy collection remains entirely without
confirmation. The pastor's warnings, however,
seem to have roused up some ardent teetotallers
to renewed exertions, and when we, the writer, went
out on Saturday night to take a constitutional be-
tween the acts we were saluted by an individual with
a voice like a cat symphony in G. who requested
us to join a local option movement. He said he
had himself been saved from drink by a shiny
apostle with a lot of dry goods on his back, and
we set him down as a member of the Pitt-street
flock accordingly, and chased him with an axe,
#* * *
We were on hand as regularly as a lot of
stale buns to witness “An English Lass,” at
the Sydney Royal Standard. The play is a
startling production with a lot of scenery ; if the
scenery were absent it would be as impossible to
boom the drama as to put the breath of life into a
coal-scuttle, but with all necessary adiuncts it
goes to a moderate extent. The heroine, Margaret
Catchpole, belongs to the latter part of the 18th
century, and her life is overshadowed by a mis-
guided horse act performed in a moment of great
excitement. She falls in love with a gentleman
of the smuggling persuasion, who attempts to
abduct her, but the gallant conduct of the pro-
prietor of a peep-show saves her from this danger.
She is induced, however, to borrow a mule, and
this deed rises like the smell of an onion in testi-
mony against her—in other words she is run in.
Her aged parent, who looks like an emu egg
dressed in bed furniture and walking on two blue
umbrellas, attempts to curse her, but he breaks
down and retires in a soft boiled condition. He is
so deeply affected that he wipes his barnacles
with the mainsail and shivers his timbers—we are
endeavouring to adhere as much as possible to
nautical phraseology—and then two smugglers
engage in a desperate combat. The sparks fly
from their swords and the very air seems full of
dead cats and dogs, but just as one is knocked as
flat ae a fly-paper the proprietor of the peep-show
grabs his enemy and throws him into the middle
of the day after to-morrow.
Margaret is condemned to death, and bids
a sorrowful farewell to the poor old egg on the
two umbrellas. Her lover, however, arranges an
escape, but his villainous pal sneaks in after him
and blocks the way. This is the crisis of the
story, and the fight that ensues is awful in its
ferocity, the gallant smuggler charging the British
army again and again in his desperate efforts to
clear the way, but just as he is about to go down,
the proprietor of the peep-show mobilises himself
and enters. His movements are as stealthy and
as noiseless as those of a pound of batter over-
maturing, but when he makes a rush his op-
ponents feel as if. they had been struck on the
head by a precipice Margaret and her lover
escape and tase refuge in a ruined castle by the
sea shore, where a cold-hearted traitor lets out
the smuggler’s vi a! spark with a cheese-knife,
and as he can’t live without the spark he becomes,
as we might say, inanimate—in fact, he perishes
in a flat position. After this the scene changes
to Australia, where Margaret is living as a con-
vict. She spends ag. od part of her time in tears,
for the dark shadow of the borrowed horse is still
upon her, but amid a wild confusion of bush-
rangers, snakes, blackfellows, and murder, she
proves herself a heroine, and, aided by the ex-
proprietor of the peep-show—the show itself
having long since been broken up and gone to
Heaven—she ultimately regains her liberty and
becomes the happy wife of a great and prosperous
h ullock- puncher.
The drama gains a little in interest by the
fact that one of the prominent female characters
was the grandmother of a highly respectable Aus-
tralian lawyer, who wouldn’t steal a horse on any
account. Miss Lily Dampier takes the part of
Margaret, Mr. Dampier that of the owner of the
peep-show, and Mr. 800 l hman fills the character
of Margaret’s lover, all three with a greater
amount of success than v e have seen on several
other occasions when they were not quite so good
as on this occasion. The scenery, however, is the
great feature of drama, and with our cus-
tomary candour we are prepared to state that if
we ever saw anything better we don’t remember it.
#* * #
Sydney Gaiety is still run on somethinglike
Chinese principles, with an amount of success
which is calculated to scare a horse from his oats.
For the benefit of those who are not acquainted
with the nature of the principles in question, we
may explain that, in a Chinese theatre, a siege is
depicted by planting a kitchen-table on the stage
to represent the walls of a castle. Behind this a
small pigtailed boy brandishes a pen-knife—he is
the garrison holding out to the last extremity,
while the relentless invader, in the shape of a
dwarf with a corkscrew, charges at' the off hind
leg of the table and tries to carry it by storm.
These two individuals are each supposed to be an
army : if the assailant stands oflf and throws stone 3
at the enemy he is understood to be artillery, and
if he conies in dragging a cat between his
legs he is cavalry. In times of peace, the hero,
psrhaps, goes out shootiDg ; a twig is gummed on
ta the stage, snd the star actor fires at a two-
yards’ range ; then he lays down his crossbow and
help his armour-bearer to get a hen out of his
pocket, and the bird is held up in triumph, the
audience taking it for granted that it was shot out
of the tree —we mean the twig. The orchestra
meanwhile pounds out texts on a tom-tom—such
texts as “ Al-1-11 flesh is gr-a-a-a-a as,” being the
favourites—and the simple-minded savages take
all this for high art. Somehow these things came
back to our minds, one by one, while we were
sitting in the Gaiety a few evenings ago. It is
strange how things do come back, even though
there may bo nothing in the surroundings that
seems calculated to recall them.
We have no distinct idea what “ Formosa”
would be like under less depressing circumstances,
but as we saw it on Monday night it entered into
our soul like the back tooth of an adder steeped
in rum. This was not necessarily the fault of the
actors, for we have met at least one in the course
of our pilgrimage who was much worse than any
of them, and he might have been prospering still
if it had not been that he get drunk and rushed
down a steep place into a ditch and broke his
neck, and when he was found two days later his
right leg had been eaten off by a h-g. It was
chiefly when we heard of this latter circumstance
that we concluded he must be a worse actor than
any now in Sydney ; he was pretty good when
he was alive, and even when he was dead but
still fresh we wouldn’t have eared to institute
comparisons, the same being odorous. It may be,
of course, that the want of positive success at the
Gaiety is owing to the scenery, but we can hardly
think so ; the present writer used to paint scenery
THE BRUSH OF HIS FOREFATHERS.
Leonardo de Angelo, (of the Sydney "Works”—descendant of the great painter,
doncherknow), cares not a snap for dismissal. “The brush that gained my ancestor
Michael fame, shall win new fame for me,” he says. He is here depicted winning
fame with the “brush” as his ancestor Michrel (generally called Mick) used to do.
himself in his infancy, making his sketches with a
grilled chop on a table-clo h, and in spite of his
recognised ability he never did anything finer than
the canvasses at the Gaiety. Perhaps, after all,
the depressing appearance of the house is only
owing to the decline of artistic taste, and the ina-
bility of the public to appreciate the beauties of
the Chine.-e drama, and, in that case, the noble
struggle which the company is making to elevate
the cornstalk mind is beyond all pr iise.
## # #
“ The Royal Middy,” an interesiing salt-
horse opera tied in a hard knot, fil s the bill of
lading at Sydney Criterion. We followed the in-
cidents by smell, after the fashion of a beast of
prey shadowing a Chinaman, and the affair bein
rather confused, we now and then got a lit le
behind, but when we did manage to catch up to
the racing screed we were generally repaid for
our trouble. The hero, Don Lamberto, swings a
battleaxe in the first act, but as he is se.retly
married to the Queen of Portugal, he grows pro-
fane on being rushed by an old s»estheart and
states that he is sick, dead, and gone out of town
on important business. The lady, however plants
her delicate little paw on the face of the Master of
Ceremonies and makes that venerable clam see
stars, and Lamberto, in frantic despair, endea
vours to palm her off on Don Januario de Pernam-
buco de Pumauego (tfle rest of the name unavoid-
ably held over). This scene ends with an upheaval,
in the course of which Fanchette endeavou sto con-
sume some victuals which have been reserved for
the Queen herse’f to crunch, but, being choked ofl*
she gets into a pair of embezzled pants, and be-
comes a midshipman, while the Master of the
Ceremonies falls over three chair 3, rakes
down a picture, and barks his Portu-
guese shins each time. The sea, however,
does not agree with the young lady, and amid
constant invitations to come and drink, to come
and smoke, to come and be sea-?ick, and generally
to come and go to "the dickens, she sinks into a
state of abject misery and leads her pants with
curses as the cause of all her wee.
The man with the long name shortly after-
wards tries to tickle the new midshipman, and his
wealthy ears swell up with the box that ensues.
He runs a risk of being measured for a sudden
death, but thinking better of it he brushesa fly
off his back with his ear and apologises. The
people about him being unable t 6 melt a cheque
for five millions, which is the smallest security he
has about him, he presents the whole lot to the
raging lion in pants, whom he has so rashly
poked into frenzy, and he also pays for some win-
dows which have been smashed by a Portuguese
larrikin who is roaming about loose on shore.
Furthermore, he baoks himself to eat a nigger,
wool and all, and the excitement becomes so
serious that when the harassed Master of Cere-
monies dodders round the throne and explains that
his wife has been throwing a shovel at his bunion,
or using some other description of violence, he is
shoved aside without a hearing. In the end,
however, Fanchette casts her pants to the four
winds and marries Januario, and the timbrel of
peace is sounded over Egypt’s dark sea. This
noble sentiment is not original. It is a sweet little
gem culled from Dr. Watts.
Miss Emilie Melville had a bad cold on
Monday night, but her Fanchette was a charming
performance none the less. Mss Colbourne-Baber
broke the record in the part of Queen Maria, and
Mr. Armes Beaumont as Don lamberto, Signor
Verdi in the character of Januario, and the rest
of the company as the others, did some very good
acting. The rest depended on the mellow bang of
the orchestra, which is always in admirable con-
dition.
** * *
Carrie Swain is gradually finishing a
pretty successful season at Sydney Royal, and on
March 5 her place will he taken by Mr. Simonsen
with his Royal Italian Upper-roar Company. There
will be a good many tears when Carrie leaves,
but not so many as there would have been but for
that confounded 10 years’ engagement cf hers, and
the agreement contained therein that she is not to
make anybody’s home happy.
*# # *
Out of respect for extreme old age we
went to see “ The Green Bushes.” at Sydney
Opera House. We do not regret this act of devo-
tion, for we always like to honour gray hairs, and
this drama is to very aged that there is even a
certain freshness about the old animal when it is
fa : rly roused up. The house was considerably
vacant, but we calculate that the Paddington
Brewery Volunteer Fire Brigade would not lose
anything out of the benefit they got, so they had
every reason to be grateful. We reveried through
the first two acts, but arrived at a s ate of semi-
consciousness in the third, and through the kind-
ness of a man in petticoats who recapitulated the
previous performance and then fell on the floor,
we got a tolerable idea of what it was all about.
In the lonely valley of the Mississippi, 100 years
ago, Jack Gong and his pal roved among the
savages and gnawed raw chops in a cave, until at
last growing weary of this fun they gave notice
to quit, a native princess sloping with them. Gong
wedded this lady with her own no3e ling, but the
wedding breakfast was interrupted by the advent
of sundry savages dressed in the fat of the hog,
and presently claret was spilt in the lovely valley
of the Mississippi. It was in the course of this
retreat that the heroes discovered a lady lying on
a freshly shot corpse, a sight which so much
affected them that they girded up the tails of
their frocks and ran. At this point the aged
mariner fell off his chair on to the floor.
The story is mixed up here by the pre-
sence of a kicked and bruised and battered little
girl. She Is the daughter of the freshly-shot
corpse in the Mississippi valley, and has been turned
adrift by the corpse’s brother and his Fenian pal
in order to clear the way towards possession of the
estates which belonged to the not-lost-but-gone-
before. The Fenian gets cocky and drunk, and
when he breathes whisky ia the face of a dog as
he goes by, the animal retires and has two fits in
the back-yard. There is a mother, too, dressed in
silk fresh from the worm, who is looking for her
long-lost child, and when she finds her the Fenian
and his master both double up as if, like Bishop
Moorhouse, they had been trying to digest “great
masses of food,” and the attempt had ended in
stomach-ache. The man in petticoats sheds tears
enough at this affecting juncture to wash a
greyhound in, and when one of the evil
characters repents and the other is rua ia
by two N.S.W. artillerymen who have some-
how been carried back a century things began
to close in. The mother gets a deed of her late
husband’s estate i under Torrens Act, so that they
can’t be jumped any more, and a lady, oft. Bin. in
> height, who demolished that afore-mention
I corpse in the Mississippi valley, dies in a new
frock. She is not a common vn gar butcher—
not the sort you would ask to chop a chump of
steak, and throw in a bit for the cat • and in spite
of her misdoings we are sorry for her.
Mr. Darrell is, unfortunately, still absent
through illness, but with Messrs. Appleton,
Gerald, Thompson, and Joyce, Miss Blanche
Lewis, and Miss Emma Bronton in the leading
parts, things go smoothly. The scenery is good,
and the attendance, as we already remarked, is
not.
*# # #
Hugo’s Buffalo Minstrels report that they
an.'e doiDg their last six nights at Sydney Academy
—they will be succeeded by a child of wrath
named Signor Agrati Hugo’s eminent banjoist
may therefore be described as being on his last
legs, but his last legs are quite as charming as his
former ones, and precisely the same size. The
chief item in the present programme is described
as “a roof-lifting farce,” but for our own part we
'pin our faith as of old to Priscilla Verne’s sweet
warblings and will let the farce slide.
The Japanese Village at the Sydney Exhi-
bition Buildings, Prince Alfred Park, contains a
good many attractions. There are multitudes of
curious, exhibits, weapons, paintings, statues,
curios, screens embroidered with the likenesses of
every animal on earth except lamb and mint
sauce, bronzes, musical instruments, and a great
number besides. Quaint trades are carried on by
Japanese workmen, and by girls who look as if
they had just stepped out of the “ Mikado ” ; then
there are strange feats of juggling, among others
that of a young lady who walk son sharp swords with
her naked feet, and iD addition, a band and a circus
are thrown in. The whole lot is as cheap as two
pies and a black eye for a Denny.
Mr. Pain’s fireworks are still in progress,
and he will have a grand juvenile night on
Thursday. Up to date of writing he has donated
£344 in all to local charitie 3 , and has put the rest
in the bank. The brilliantly original remark
with which this paragraph opens also applies to
the Strasburg Clock.
## # #
The Lynch Family of Bellringers are
ploughing up the clods of the agricultural intellect
in the vicinity of Inverell. Business is still good,
and they are now working their prosperous w'ay
towards Sydney.
Mr. Harry St. Maur and his comedy com-
pany are drawing crowded houses ia the damp
and froggy city of Brisbane. The people who have
been recently drowned out generally look in at
Brisbane Gaiety ia order to forget their misery,
and the result is good for the treasury.
# # # =*
Frank Clark’s “Silk Stockings” crowd
will soon be celebrating an “ anniversary” at the
snug little Victoria Hall, Melbourne. This show
seems to roll along with the buoyant pertinacity of
the sad sea-waves. There is something about its
name which attracts dudes who have bean dining,
and appeals to the sympathies of elderly gentle-
men. Not that there is ever an item in the “ Silk
Stockings ” programme which could bring a blush
to the maiden’s cheek or make the good yourg
man that died hide his confusion behind his hat.
In the beautiful words of the advertisement, it is
“ beet and most refined entertainment in Mel-
bourne”—something to which a father can take
his daughter and Edwin conduct his Angelina.
In a general way, however, Edwin and the old
man go by themselves, aod seem to like it much.
Everybody who is anybody in the male or female
“ variety” line does a turn for Frank Clark’s com-,
bination as opportunities offer. Fresh blood is
infused into its veics of humour every Saturday
night. The path of funniness leads but to the
grave, as the poet said, and ere the merry banjo
has twanged the last chord of “ Cnuck a tater at
your aunt,” we find ourselves weeping over “ Let
me like a loafer die.” Then somebody hangs on
to a trapeze by his big toe, and joy is un con fined
once mo’e The “S lk Stockings ’ show is a mild
tonic which can be taken once a month or so with-
out injury to the most delicate constitution.
*# * #
A complimentary benefit to Mr. W. H.
Woodfield drew a big crowd to Melbourne Prin-
cess’ last Friday. Following the lead of Miss
Nellie Stewart, W.H.W. elected to appear in the
“Mikado.” and played his o’d character of the
unblushing monopolist, Pooh Bah. During the
rest of the week the comic opera market was
somewhat depressed in this quarter, and only a
fair amount of business was done at current prices.
Miss El-a May has stepped into the vacated shoes,
and pipped on the abandoned mantle of Miss
Nellie Stewart, without exactly banishing the re-
membrance of that vanished syren from our man-
gled heart. After this Friday’s performance
the Triumvirate’s “wobblers” wobble away
to New Zealand. Sims and Pettits’ “Harbour
Lights ” commence to shine at the Princess’ on
Saturday, 26th.
## # #
Miss Alice Barnett, alias Katisha of
the “Mikado,” alias the Queen of the Fairies,
takes her benefit at Melbourne Princess on Friday,
25th February. This lady has appeared in so
many different characters that she has accumu-
lated enough aliases to fit a bank thief, and con-
sidering what a shining success she has been on
each occasion there ought to be at least ten citizens
crushed to death next Friday without fail. If no-
body is crushed we will feel disappointed.
# it # *
The air of Melbourne is heavy with benefits
this week. Signor Hazon, wisB and ever wakeful
ruler of the Italian Opera orchestra, had his night
out on Tuesday, and on Friday Signor Lazzarini
takes “Kitty” in Mr. Simonsen’s latest produc-
tion, “Lucrezia Borgia.” There should be a real
bumper house for this. Lazzarini’s heavenly tenor
has captured the town, and if the town don’t roll
up to hear him as Gennaro, with the great Ciuti
as Lucrezia, it ought to be fired and brimstoned
and then turned into a pillar of salt. After this
outburst of superior enthusiasm we must apolo-
gise for mentioning that Mr. Grattan Riggs is
doing “Irish Detective” at the Bijou. A further
intimation that St. George's Hall is doing duty for
“ Tom Cribb’s Parlour ” sounds like soulless bias
phemy.
Thug a cruel paper : —“ By this
time Miss Cameron is on the deep blue sea, the
victim of a deep blue disappointment. The next
time she comes may she introduce the highly re-
spectable novelty of making the trip with her own
husband.” Similarly Lord Lonsdale might as-
tonish and delight a virtuous world by taking his
I next trip through the States with a wife of his
own. It would be a real treat to see such a novel
alliance of blue-blood and virtue.


Pepper
And
Salt
The sun of prosperity has dawned upon
Ireland at last. Her Majesty has given an im-
perial send-off to the Donegal Industries Fund by
ordering “ an embroidered poplin child’s frock.”
We do not, in our gladness at this information,
cavil at the manner in which it is conveyed. We
have never gazed upon an embroidered poplin
child, but do not doubt that it can he produced in
Donegal at a hint from her Majesty. All our
hypercritical feelings are, in fact, subdued and
merged in a wild burst of enthusiasm at this
further instance of Guelphic generosity. The fact
shall not go down to oblivion unsung while we can
twang the wire. Ho, there ! The Harp of Tara !
Now !
The grave has swallowed up John Jack-
man, of Melbourne, and his name is not one to
build poetry on. He was a widower, and when
the bailiff arrived to seize his sticks he found him
with his tail down to the last degree—in other
words he was dying. Then the Hebrew wiped
away a tear with the tail of his coat, and hustling
Jackman into a cab told the driver to spread his
horse and his fever-hox to the hospital as fast as
they could tear, and get the surgeons to nail the
patient together without delay. But when the
Jehu had split his way through the atmosphere to
his destination, his cargo was refused admittance
on the ground that there was no room, and when
the gilded chariot was shot round to the other
corpse-reviving establishments of the city, the
result was just the same Then the cabby was in
a fix. He couldn’t take Jackman home again, for
he had no home left to go to; he couldn’t leave
him at the police-station for he hadn’t killed any-
body ; he couldn’t shoot him into the gutter ; so
he walked his horse about and gave Jackman a
little gentle exercise till he died, and then he
delivered him to the coroner. It isn’t much of
a story, after all.
Rumourh of wholesale reductions and dis-
missals in the N.S.W. Civil Service are rife—
A little Victorian journal spreads itself
wrathfully over the doings of a reverend local
swab, who has been exhaling his purifying breath
in its neighbourhood. The local saddler, it ap-
pears, is a Freethinker, and his views on the
famous obstructive manoeuvre of Balaam’s ass
and similar topics are painfully loose. The sad-
dler’s son is the district letter-carrier, butwhether
his views are or are not loose is not stated. The re-
verend gentleman, however, objected strongly to
having his holy correspondence humped by the
offspring of an unbeliever, and when that unbap-
tised youth brought a letter or a newspaper to
the mansion which shaded his reverend flesh he
declined to touoh it, and shuddered. How he
kept up his communication with the outer world
under these circumstances is not explained ; pro-
bably his washerwoman, acted as intermediary or
else he communed in the spirit with the hatter and
the grocer. But at last he felt it incumbent on him
to take up the parable against the unclean one’
and as the result of his protest the postman wa s
sacked. It takes a sanctified gospel-bore to de-
prive a young man of his means of livelihood
simply because his father and the said smooth-
bore don’t think alike on matters concerning their
souls ; a common sinner wallowing in his wicked-
ness would shrink from such an enterprise.
An advertisement in a Bordeaux paper
says—“ Young lady would accept situation at a
railway station. She speaks English, German and
French, and can make sixty sandwiches with half
a pound of butter.” Smart girl enough, but no
use for a Sydney boarding establishment.
They were dead broke, both of them.
They were so huDgry that they would have passed
an india-rubber hen through a mangle in the hope
of squeezing out an egg, and you could have fried
a chop on top of their thirst. They had only one pipe
between them, and it was a short clay begrimed
with dirt that had accumulated on it since the
days of the prophet Samuel; they had no clothes
worth speaking of, no matches, no tobacco, no
JOHN DAVIES’ SOLILOQUY.
JOHN DAVIES (laying down newspaper): “LLOYD HAPPOINTED TO THE HUPPER
HOUSE, AND WATSON, AND YET I AM FORGOTTEN. I DID MORE FOR
PARK[?]S THAN EITHER OF [?]HEM, AND I WAS WORSE LICKED AT THE
ELECTION.”
hats, and they were shod with the memory of
four vanished boots. Thar thirst, however, was
the most prominent part of the diagnosis, and so,
when a stranger with a roll of paper in his hand
commenced by saying “ Will you two chaps ”
they interrupted him right away, and rushing
into the bar exclaimed with one voice, “We will.
Mine’sal<mg,longbeer.”Buttheydidn’tgetthebeer,
for the new arrival held up his hand reproachfully
and said in a mild, woolly voice : “ My friends, you
have made a mistake. I didn't call you in for a beer.
I merely wished to ask if you would mind signing
a requisition requesting Mr. Jones to stand for
this electorate in the Freetrade interest.” And
then the dead broke pair spoke again with one
voice ; what they said began with: “ Blast
Jones,” but if we put in the rest of their remarks
it would seriously endanger the respectability of
this widely-popular journal.
...
Those genial old trilobites, the members
of the Geological Society of Australasia, held their
quarterly gathering at the Melbourne Town Hail
the other day. The feature of the meeting v, as
an address full of dry pre-Adamite drollery de-
livered by Mr. Stirling, F.G.S., F.L.S., on the
“ Physiography of the Tambo Valley.” The sly
allusions of the speaker to the fossil remains of
the Silurian, Devonian, and Tertiary formations
were much relished by the gay old petrifactions
to whom he was speaking. At length one of
them asked him “if ever in the course of his
geological study he had come across human re-
mains, such as those iound in France and parts of
Great Britain, which proved the antiquity of man.”
Twenty-three bony hands were simultaneously
raised to 23 leathery ears to catch Mr. Sterling’s
reply. It was to the effect that “ he had never
met with human bores, but a miner had dis-
oovered what was believed to be a oanoe, which,
if such were the case, would go to show that the
antiquity of man was much greater than had ever
yet been proved.” Much satisfaction was ex-
pressed at this reply. Next to Spiritualists we
believe geologists are the most credulous class of
people in existence. We do not remember ever
having an opportunity to address Mr. Stirling in
rhyme before, therefore we avail ourselves of this
one all the more gladly :
The meanings of another blue, malarious
groveller go up to heaven from the columns of the
Melbourne Telegraph. We almost like this
groveller, however, he is so far reaching and com-
prehensive, so deep and 1. ng and wide, so slushy
—just like a trodden-on toad, and so proud of his
own yeilowplush flunkeyism. He signs himself
“ J.L.M.” which isn’t half a name for his cheek,
and he wants a line levied on every well-to-do
bachelor in Victoria who doesn’t get married this
year in honour of the Queen’s Jubilee. Also he
desires the Government to gr slopping about with
nitrate of silver and collodion and take the photo
of every unmarried female in the colony between
the ages of 20 and 40, the said photos to be exhi-
bited publicly in order that each lonely baldhetad
and scalawag may choose a wife and go off and
marry her at once. It probably doesn’t dawn on
this miserable gopher, however, that no decent
girl would care to have her house raided the day
after her photo was published by old battered
gou:y roads, and scrubby young larrikins with
oilea heads, and cheeky imps with a leer
and a pair of tight pants apiece, all wanting
to wed her right off, and yet if she possessed
youth, beauty and a fortune this would probably
be her share of ” J.L.M’s ” jubilee. Thee really
are some men in this world who owe their exis-
tence to the fact that Nature found they wouldn’t
make edible hogs and was forced in despair to
stand them up on their back legs and leave them.
In that museum of marvels, North Queens-
land, whence we predict all the romance of the
future will be drawn, there is a police-sergeant
who is troubled by an impediment in his speech,
which impediment, however, does not affect his
vocalisation. He, therefore, requested that he might
be allowed to chant instead of read the charge-sheet
to the prisoners, and the request beinggranted, the
court has been transformed into a most delectable
resort. Prisoners are wholly indifferent as to the
punishment of their offences when the witching
warble of the p.s. meanders through the precincts
of the building. The amount of discrimination
which the oflloer throws into his work is of itself
a study. If the alleged siu is the ordinary one of
over-rummation, he chuckles out the charge to the
modified tune of “Oh, boys, we’ll never get
drunk any more but if the offender also stands
accused of tearing a policeman’s uniform, heroic
chords of Iliad-like loftiness are introduced, while
in cases of alleged profanity a thrill of abhorrence
pervades the melody. It is stated that on one
occasion when a man had been lumbered for at-
tempted burglary, the charge was urged to
the tune of “ Try, try, try again.” but this is pro-
bably the libel of an enemy. This pleasing varia-
tion of polioe-court monotony might well be
adopted even where the offioer has not an impedi-
ment of speeoh.
* • •
The reverend Dods, of Melbourne, has
retired fiom the locsl Presbyterian fold. His
friends invited him to take a knife and fork at a
banquet just prior to his departure, and growing
communicative over the flounder and baked beans
he laid a tall, green, fresh-looking cur'e upon the
Victorian branch of tho denomination to which he
belongs. It was not very thick, but it was the
longest and meat active curse that ever anybody
raw. Figuratively speaking. Mr. Dodd’s brethren
had scalped him contrary to tho eustomof nations,
and cut him off like a flower in his bloom, and he
recorded his “ deep, solemn, indignation against
these miserable men.” “ Presbyterian ministers
here were uneducated, and the enly principles
they had were a few that had been learned in
early life in private training schools,” declared the
sweet creature as ha shovelled in the baked beaas ;
“ some of them,” he oontinued, “ were actually de-
void of the shivalrous spirit of gentlemen, and
there was searcely one of them for whom he enter-
tained genuine respect.” Then he took a swig of
something, and declare! that “ there would be no
great strengthening of the church here
until several first-class funerals had taken
place,” which, we presume, was his little
Dodese way of saying that he desired to see
the whole Presbyterian menagerie, excepting
himself, afflicted with an outbreak of spots whioh
would speedily develope into something fatal.
Perhaps under these circumstances it is as well
that Mr. Dods has gono to exalt his worldly horn
in a foreign land. We have long suspected that
there is something about the Shorter Catechism
which provokes a man to conduct himself in an
ungentlemanly manner, and now we are sure of
it. The patient eats peas with his knife, and
gloomily says the kirk is going to the dogs ; he
gets on as far as the baked bean course, and then
he wishes the other parsons were dead ; and by
•the time the carrots come on he desires to see
the whole bilin’ of them in the hereafter. Fastor
Dods, howevtr, is so susceptible to the influence
of exhilarating vegetables that after eating for an
hour or two he says these things instead of
merely thinkiny them ; so it is just as well that
this humble Christian is now on the bounding
Pillows and not likely to come back.
The Most Rev. T. J. Carr, who will
shortly come to Aus'ralia as R.C. Aroh-
bishop of Melbourne, is to receive practioal assist-
ance in his earthly pilgrimage. At a meeting
held in Melbourne to consider the necessity of
easing Dr. Carr of some of his burden, it was re-
solved that the laity should present His Grace
with “ a carriage and pair of horses worthy of his
exalted posicion ” As the clergy are to present
“ a gift from themselves exclusively,” we would
recommend them t j concentrate their attention on
an arm chair and spring mattress also in keeping
with His Grace’s exalted billet. Or, perhaps a
special barouche, for visiting an inferior class of
people, would suit the Arch B. One of Watts’
hymn tunes on the accordion, if you please :
On the Grafton-road, Auckland, lives a
brawny agriculturist with long limbs, who is dan-
gerous when roused. He was roused the other
morning, when he awoke and found two men rob-
bing his orchard, so he merely waited a moment
to harness up his pants, and then sailing out
caught the trigger of the two, and tied him up
with ropes. then he dumped him into a barrow
and wheeled him to the police-office, and cap-
turing the other one on the road, he obtained for
them a little three months apiece. Henceforth his
orchard will be as safe as a Freetrade majority.
Judge Webb, of the Victorian Divorce
Court, has turned off the tap and stopped the
supply of filth which used to flow unchecked into
the columns of the daily Press. The divorce oaso
of Weeding v. Weeding was going on gaily, but
just as the Sydney evening papers began to sniff
the welcome odour of the dead cat and the sewer,
he prohibited the publication of any further evi-
dence. Thereupon the Sydney Noosb dismissed
him with a bitter jibe headed “ A Squeamish
Judge,” and any space which it might have re-
served for piquant divorce detail® was filled of
necessity with le»s interesting matter.
Even in London 13 deaths from starvation
in ten days seems a pretty solid average. Yet
that was the return in December last, and to these
must probably b« added a tolerably ie»ular weekly
total of 50 or more fatalities caused by fevers and
other diseases induced by hunger. In these in-
stances the original trouble is generally ignored,
and the result is ascribed to ” natural causes,”
but the real source is grinding poverty and abject
want, such as is known in no other city in all the
world. Yet parochial authorities declare there ia
just now “no exceptional suffering ’’—about the
most awful comment on the present bills of mor-
tality that could be uttered. The suffering is
chronic, not exceptional, and 13 deaths from star-
vation in less thsn as many days is set down aa
something quite in the ordinary course.
THE JURILEE TOWER.
They’re building in London a Jubilee Tower,
Nine counties therefrom for to view,
And a gay little dynamitard waits the hour
For it to he finished. Yerro!
They’re building it tall and they’re building it
strong ;
For the honour and glory of Guelph,
But with upper lip loDg, and with tooth like a
prong,
“ You’re my meat,” he sings to himself.
They’re building it high and they’re building it
well,
But he chuckles, this humorous card,
As he hugs to his breast his merry bombshell
The gay little dynamitard.
Oh, Erin, wipe away
Those tears that fortune mock,
Her Majesty—hurrah !
Has bought a poplin frock.
At last —at last—a rift
In your dark sky appears,
At last you’ve got a lift,
Then, Erin, dry yonr tear#!
Oh, those who’d call her mean
To Purgatory knock—
Your good and gracious Queen
Has bought a poplin frock.
Then let the good news ring
From Down to Cashel’s rock
And dance, your sowl, and sing,
Yerroo ! the poplin frock.
What, though you’re hungry, and
There's no meal in the crock,
Sing Plenty in the Land,
And, hey, the poplin frock.
Your ohildren homeless made
Across the ocean flock,
But how can you upbraid 2
’ The Queen has bought a frock.
Your sons who loved you well
Are in the felon’s dock,
But that’s a bagatelle
When mentioned with the frock.
Then lift your loyal cheers,
And let the welkin rock,
For her who dried your tears
With—whoop ! a poplin frock.
A DINUK
Jones of the Works is sore distress't
A dull foreboding perturbs his breast;
Brown of the Sealing Wax, luckless wight!
Gets never a wink of sleep at night;
Smith of the Redtape is down and glum
Awaiting the blow that’s bound to come ;
For they and others ’tis said, alack !
Are ticked on tho paper to get the sack.
Active are Jones, and Smith, and Brown,
Since these horrible rumours alarmed the town ;
Civil and soft are their prompt replies,
Tender the gleam in their anxious eyes ;
Letters are answered as quick as thought,
Everyone does just the things he ought;
Too late have these gentlemen changed their tack,
The word has gone forth, and that word is Sack.
That blushing Bordeaux Hebe,
What a clever girl must she be !
Standing fairly at the head of her “ perfesh ; ”
She can speak a lot of laDgwiches,
And spread five dozen sandwiches
With half a pound of potted, salt, or fresh.
But though that maid can splutter
Such a surface with the butter,
Yet our hash housekeeper heats her past belief.
For that fairy fingered “ faker ”
Covers more than half an acre
With less than half a pound of stringy beef.
O, Mr. Stirling, sir,
We ask you, and expect reply to same
(No slipping out through casuistic crannies !)
W hat are we to infer
From your remarks ? Confess!
What does a man with kite-tails to his name
F.G. and F.L.S. —
Mean, sir, by putting up this little game
Upon those good old geologic grannies 2
What harm have they done you,
That with this shameless “ guyver ” you should
load them —
Enough, by thunder, to explode them —
About a prehistorical canoe
(Pooh!)
When, well you knew
What was found— clear of hoax or myth—
Was left (and since has lain perdu)
Down in a shaft in Fifty-two
By Colonel W. Collard Smith,
In fact —a shoe i
Twinkle, twinkle, Dr. Carr,
What a lucky man you are 1
Up above the mob so high,
You can keep your tootsies dry.
When you go your holy beat
Never shall you wet your feet,
But 101 l in a barouche and pair
Worthy of a prelate rare.
As around the town you ride.
Don't put on oppressive “ side ”
Nor forget, dear Dr. Carr,
Whom you serve and Whose you are.
Great and mighty servant you
Of a lowly Master, who
Had not where to lay His head—
Tou'U enjoy a feather-bed.
Happy, happy is your lot 1
Much you 11 get and much you've got ;
Rhyme’s less lucrative than prayer—
We have no barouche and pair.
Twinkle, twinkle, Dr. Carr—
What it is to be a “ star,”
Up above the mob so high !
Tra-la-la, so long, good-bje.


POLITICAL
POINTS
A successful unlertaking—Melville’s -elec-
tion. * '
Sir Patrick Jennings is at sea. So he
always was as Premier.
Jennings interviewed Gillies. Gillies no
longer wonders at the N.S, W. deficit.
.Tamworth (N.S.W.) electors tvould not
listen to- the speech' of Mr. Sydney Burdekin.
They thought they knew all he could tell them
about plumping.
It is noticed with approbation by the
Sydney Press that Sir Henry Parkes in one of his
Queanbeyan speeches did not abuse anyone. He
mpst have been ill. ■/
Frawricis Habigle told his Dubbo audience
that he “ had always opposed Protection.” So he
did by his advocacy of it. In the same way he is
new opposing Freetrade.
Mr. E. Ball, one of the recently elected
members for Goulbuin, is said to possess “ a great
flow of language.” That’s likely enough. He
owns up to having becti 20 ye \rs a barber.
More than half of England’s military
forces are now employed in India and Ireland.
And itiajnst possible that large reinforcements
may havb to be shortly tent to each of these
plaoe*'.
The Lyne-Clarke feud will be renewed
again as soon as the N.S.W. Parliament meets,
and this time it will be vaevictis. One of the two
must lose a whole heap of reputation in the next
enoounter.
Mr. Garrett, it is rumoured, will shortly
retire from the Parkes Ministry on account of ill-
health. The excitement of electioneering and the
toils of office are said to be chiefly accountable for
the fact of his recent indisposition.
This is bow the Sydney D.T. works up
the Northumberland e’ection agoDy, “Men half
maddened with drink and agitation commenced
balteriny «aoh other with felt hats and small
flays." “In the name cf the Prophet figs !
The Sydney D.T., by
editorials just within the
bo rdf r of libel, has been
fiercely slangwhanging Mr.
Ninian Melville. It would
be difficult to justify tie
ferocity of these attacks,
for Ninian, with all his poli-
tical faults, and he has a
few, is one of ihe most use-
ful and consistent men in
the House. As far as his
constituents are epneemed,
Ninian deserves his recent
victory. If assistance is
needed to raire funds for a
distressed miner or li's
family Ninian Is usually or
hand with a lecture, which
costs him time ar d moDey
to attend and deliver, and
brings the grateful boodle
to the beneficiure a, and In
various similar ways I e
takes a persmal interest in
his constituents. Ninian
may not have cuiiureenough
to satisfy a D.T. c i'ic, but
ho has earnestness and
heart enough for a do7,:n—
members.
The chairman of the
-British Farmers’ Club has
published some statistics
which go to prove that what
is airily termed “agricul-
tural depression” inEi gland
is nothing other than a slow
but certain decay. Between
1866 and 1875 the yeaUy
average number cf acres in
Great Bi itain devoted to Ll e
raising of wheat, barley,
and ’ oats was 9,487,000.
Between -1876 and 1885 it
was 8,861,000, a failing off of
about 6J per cent, for the 10
years. That- is bad enough,
but anyone with a nice taste
in figures can sketch out
.possible returns for the next
ten .years when it is mentioned that only
.8,400,000 acres were under cultivation in 1885.
Evidently nothing but the imposition of some
small protective duty on grain can prevent the
British farmer from being improved off the face of
the earth.
The Sydney dailies everlastingly urge the
Government, to work the services c-n commercial
principles. One way of following this advice
would be by charging postage on daily newspapers.
We commend this idea to the hon Frawnets.
A provinsial paper sttys that “ Parkes
is always talking of things that he hasn’t the
faintest glimmering of.” The provincial paper is
wrong. Parkes lately has talked of but little
besidts personrl beauty and political consistency.
The Hon. Francis Abigail was wont in
times past to taunt Melville about “that there
£■25.” By the irony of fate it happens that other
men now are taunting Francis about that other
£2s—the sum he promised to give if ever proved
to havs adrocateil “ Purtection.”
As ft change of name for New South
Wales seems to te deßired, v e would suggest that
the eclony be ealled “ Parkesland,” or else “ Free-
tradia ” Either of those titles must commend
itself to a Press which has howled itself hoarse
in praise of the resurrected deities.
Sydney Evening News gives a little crow
of delight, because Swallow and Ariell are going
to start a branoh of their bisouit-factory in “ Free-
trade New South Wales. ’ But the guileless little
sheet Sorgets that biscuit manufacturers are pro
teoted in Freetradia.
From the report of Parkes’ speech at
Qneanbeyan : “ The man who had interrupted
knew as much about the land as he knew about
his laundress.” We would venture to point out
that Sir Henry has never yet informed a gasping
country bow much he does know about his laun-
dress. That is all.
The keen foresight of Mr. A. L. Park,
the defeated candidate for Grenfell (N.S.W.), wa<*
amply proved by his reply to an elector who asked
whether “3s. 4d. was a sufficient price for wheat.”
“ Well,” remarked ths sage with the hesitancy so
characteristic of deep wisdom and dulness, “its
better than 3s. 3d.” Mr. Park is solid on the
grain question, you betl
Sir Henry Parkes characterises Mr. J. P.
Abbott as a “ Protectionist of the worst type—an
apostate to Freetrade.” This is the old music
the bang of the dirty kettle against the pot. Sir
Henry is just the same kind of apostate, for he
deserted Protection for Freetrade, and he is such
a forgetful kind of apostate that he now denies
having ever performed this notorious shuffle.
“ We won’t vote for you this time Misther
Taylor,” yelled a Mudgee elector as Adolphus
George came forward with a smile “too thick”
to address the hustings crowd. “I know you
won’t,” he retorted, “ but in a month’s time you
will come to me asking me to make policemen of
you, and I’ll do it, on the principle of ‘ set a thief
to catch a thief.’ ” Adolphus is certain to be iolid
with the Mudgee Irish by (say) the next Jubilee
year.
The Sydney Herald censures the “ maker
of the Legislative Council,” Sir Henry Parkes, for
not having included Mr. Robert Wisdom in his
last batch of nominees. This is rather rough on
the Premier. He previously nominated one
Robert Wisdom to the Council, and could not
well nominate Robert Wisdom again, unless the*e
are two or them. From which latter catastrophe
may Heaven defend us.
Mr. J. M. Chanter’s Echuca address to
the Australian Natives’ Association has ju&t been
published. To recently-elected members who
want to know something about the land question
in N.S.W. the pamphlet will be invaluable. But up
to the present we haven’t met any such new
member. They don’t want to know anything
about anything till their bleeding country calls
them to the hustings again.
A Grenfell (N.S.W.) lady challenges all
and sundry the Freetraders of the district to a pub-
lic debate on the question. She is coT-fident of ob-
literating them in one act, and as they are much
of the same opinion her gauntlet (small six and a
quarter), is still on the ground. It is joyous to
see that one of the sex which deserves protection
is ready to plead for it. And why not. We
already have a Boy Politician, why not a Girl
Politician also.
The election address of the Hon. F. Abi-
gail is said to have been read out at a meeting of
a Sydney Orange Lodge and approved by the
PARKES FAVOURS PROTECTION—BY THE POLICE.
QUEANB[?]AN BOY No. [?] “SO TILATS PARKES IS IT[?] BUT WHAT’S THE TRAPS
FOR?”
Q. B No. [?]: “OH, THEY HAS TO SEND TRAPS WITH HIM WHEREVER HE GOES.
HE WANTS A LOT O’ WATCHING. NO ONE KNOWS WHAT HE IS GOING TO
BE UP TO, SO THEY ALWAYS GOES WITH HIM.”
“A strong body of poli[?]mpanied Sir Henry Pak[?]s throughout his electioneering
tours.” —A[?] C[?] P[?].
“ brothers ” before it was published. Even if true,
as alleged, we can see nothing strange in this
proceeding. That Abigail should read it there is
only a proof of his sagacity in securing an appre-
ciative audience ; that the brethren should have
approved of it is natural enough they could not
see how it was spelt.
“ Lazarus,” in the Sydney Echo, is jubi-
lant over the dodge of that Cootamundra genius
who drove a faj cow and a lean one through ihe
streets, the one labelled “freetrsde,” the other
“protection.” The freetraders were about right
in selecting the cow as the symbol of their party, it
being a stupid animal which other people milk
regularly for their own benefit, and which is
generally driven by a lout who gives the poor
beast no voice in dec : ding where it will go.
“ Lazarus,” who admires the cow and the cow-
driver, also bears a felicitous title ; there will be
plenty of Lasaruees in N.S.W. under Freetrade.
The Rev. Shirley Baker, Premier, of
Tonga, seems to be an exotic more calculated to
bloom in heaven than on earth. When he was
shot at, his son and daughter threw themselves in
front of him, which possibly means that he threw
himself behind them, and thus the skin of the
great evangelist was saved, but when got home
he spent the rest of the evening groaning, howl-
irg, and rol.ing over and over on the verandah.
Even the oppieesed Diggers began to pity the
crushed worm at last, but when he had a pair of
fits next morning they considered that he was
carrying the joke too far. The holy man, in addi-
tion to being Premier, is all the Secretaries of
S ate put together, as well as judge, crown prose-
cutor, jury, divorce court, and court of appeal,
and thus when he collapsed nearly twenty high
functionaries were kicking and foaming at the
mouth, and the whole machinery of government
was doubled up in a hard knot on the floor. The
Rev. Baker s assailants, by the bye, gave them-
selves up “ to prevent their relatives being
outraged and punished in their stead ” one of the
best comments we have yet met on government
by missionary.
A tip for Sydney insolvents. If you have
squandered your pat imony, bought heap 3 of un-
saleable land, ruined all your friends who backed
your bills, overdrawn at yonr banker's, and brought
blue ruin on yourself generally, here is a little
grat'-s legal wrinkle that will enable you to live
like a fighting cock for the rest of your days with-
out any fear of the Insolvency Court, Chief Com-
missioner Daffeli, or Sheriff Cowper. As soon as
one of your creditors gets a rule nisi against you
to make you insolvent, this stops all other pro-
ceedings. Then get some friend to bring an equity
suit against you, and £ ir William Manning will,
of course, grant an injunction against further
steps in the matter of the rule nisi. Then you
are right. The rule nisi stops all other creditors,
and the injunction stops the rule nisi. This course
of proceeding is likely to prove a real blessing to
several Sydney aristocrats.
The English peer is an interesting object.
He may be mean, or ugly, or in low circumstances
—he may be a wife-kicking drunkard or a
Duke of Marlborough, or he may lunch on a her-
ring in a cook-shop in company with a coal-
heaver, after the fashion of Lord Hinton, but as
he sits with his coronet tipped rakishly on one
side and his alabaster limbs stacked on the man-
telpiece there is an indefinable grace and refine-
ment about him that makes him a thing of beauty
and a joy for ever. Consequently, no true Briton
will regret to hear that, during the last 35 years,
520 teers have run no less than 7991 relatives into
life-long bil'ets in the Government service, making
a go id average of 15 paupers which each has
planted on his bleeding country. The dukes, 28
in number, have themselves an especially
hungry lot ; they have absorbed all the best
places, and having swallowed the lamb and the
mint-sauce have left only the bones and the
sauce-boat for their brethren. Among other
little trifles they have shoved 35 sons, 29
brothers, 37 uncles, and 70 cousins into highly-paid
job 3, and five of them even provided for their
wives in the same way. Providence evidently
tempers the wind to the shorn duke. The 33 mar-
quises got rid of 42 brothers, 44 uncles, 11 brothers-
in-law, 46 cousins, 31 second cousins, and 268
miscellaneous relatives; while the carls are chiefly
remarkable for the kindly way in which they
provided for 242 cousins and 249 brothers. The
barors—an assortment of 202 quiet old whaie.i
with confused ideas- fixed up exactly 202 uncles,
or one apiece, and 201 The odd
brother in law was an idiot and couldn’t be fixed
They made up for this, however, by finding bed
and breakfast at the country's expense for 2
wives, 5 mother?, 5 sisters, I halLsister, 27 great
uncles, 1 great grand-uncle. 3 aunts, 1 great aunt,
1 great grandfather, and 1 grandmother. The
present House of Peers has an income of nearly
£13,000,000 from landed property alone, and draws
£750,000 in salaries and pensions, but it teems to
be unable to keep its own grandmother even out
of this nice little allowance.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The “ Kernel ” is back in Sydney again.
“ George Washington Bung ’ is the name
of a promising North Queensland youth.
President Cleveland weighs 501 b. more
than when he entered the White Hous*.
Lord Colin Campbell will take his case to
the' Lpper House. It U more in their line.
It is asserted that Boshway, the Burmese
patriot, is an I ishmar, and that his real name is
B. O'Shea.
* R. Booth, the temperance expounder, is
now at Honolulu. The people there offer a splen-
did field for temperance labours.
The Bishop of London tripped up in the
street recently and broke a couple of his episcopal
ribs. He had not been taking toomushsalmonan-
cucumberBh.
The Sydney D.T. says that Mr. “ R. B.”
Wise is “arising barrister.” That i 3 probably
their reason for misquoting his initials—to make
them stand for Rising Barrister Wise.
Mr. Parnell is said to be a fathomless
mystery. He dwells apart, and for many years he
had no address except at the House of Commons.
He disappears mysteriously, and turns up again
just as mysteriously. When he leaves the House
he is simply swallowed up in the darkness. He
has no friends—his adherents, faithful as they
are, are not his friends, only his subordinates.
The leper who dwelt among the tombs was net
more utterly alone than this Irish patriot.
The untimely decease of Sir Stafford
Northcote reminds us that one of his ancestors
architected a considerable amount of the family
fortunes by means of phenomenal good luck in
“ turning the king.” The Northcote in question
won a fat estate from a country squire at the card
table. They played on a Sunday morning, and as
it was neces ary for Providence to mark its high
displeasure in an appropriate manner, Providence
dropped on the ciuntry squire. Like staunch
Conservatives the Northcotes have stuck to that
estate ever since.
More joy. “Jumbo” Wales has been
nominated in Grand Mark Lodge for re-election as
Grand Master of English Mark Masons, and he
will be again nominated for re election in United
Grand Lodge as Grand Master of English Craft
Masons. Of course, nothing but a three-star spirit
of honour animates the guileless Albert in clutcb-
ing at the above distinctions. Yet it is somewhat
peculiar that “the Prince of Wales, having ir-
vited the co operation of Her Majesty’s subjects in
the formation of an Imperial Institute as the
memorial of the Queen’s Jubilee, Mr. Raynham
Stewart will propose that the Grand Lodge votes
£lOOO to the proposed institute.” We wouldn’t
say that the whole affair is “a put-up job,” but
still hold firmly to the opinion that the coinci-
dence is peculiar. You bet Albert cut his eye-teeth
some considerable time since.
A few short months ago a wealthy farmer
named Woodward owned some property at Avon-
dale (N.Z ). He was in the sere and yeLow leaf,
and his teeth being all gone he could no longer
crunch his victuals, while the wind whistled
shrilly through the empty amphitheatre of his
jaws. Under these circumstances he began to
think of death and other cheerful subjects, and
ultimately he made over all his property to his
wife w*ho was young and enterprising and had all
her still on hand. Very shortly after this
Woodward began to have an unholy glare in his
eye—at least his wife brought two doctors who
said so—and he was shipped off to a madhouse,
and When he was ejected from this place a 3 per-
fectly sane it was only to be run in to the hospital
and, have mustard plasters put on him. Here
again he was turned ou . cured in a very slort
time, and then being destitute and hungry he
drift d in f o the Old Men’s Refuge among other
eden ated old vagrants, and his wife, being sued
for maintenance, allowed him 93. per week. He
now hebb’es aimlessly around with his It g in a
sling and*his shiny he id bowed down—a solemn
warning to all old men with y« ung wives and
re il proper y.
Alfred George Henry
Garton, of Horn castle
(Eng.), is, according to his
own joetic language ut-
tered in the police court,
“a man of Goi,” and a
professional evangelist. Al-
fred Genge Henry was
walking past a frozen re-
servoir on Christmas day
when he saw a little fellow'
who was slidiog thereon fall
through the ice. The boy
remained in the water for
10 minutes calling piteously
for help, and then another
youngster aged J. 3 went in
to J his assis f ance and both
were drowntfl. Alfred
George went off, however,
when the tragedy wes
half through, his reason,
as he explained at the in-
quest, b.ing that the day
was nasty and he was afraid
he might get cHd if he
stayed out longer. As we
have a'ready eodeavoure
to explain, Alfred Geirge
Henry barton is an
gtlist and a man of Gcd.
Charles Harris, of
Newcastle, obviously ain’t
a gentleman. He was, until
very lately, a married indi-
vidua 1 of lanky principles,
but he is not married now
owing to the following cir-
cumstances. Charles went
on the spree on a certain
Friday night, and having
filled himself w r ith blue ruin
and Paris green he began
to view snakes. He poured
a burning kerosene - lamp
over his wife and turned
her into a pillar of fire by
night and a corpse by day,
and then he opened the
door and bowed the blazing
female out. When she was
gone he lay down on the
floor and cut a fixed red smile in his neck by
means of a razor, and as a consequence he
was too ill to attend the funeral of his late
partner in life. The moral cf this little incident
sticks out further than the jib of a yacht.
A Scotch University has conferred the
honorary degree of Doctor cf Laws on Mr.
Laishley, of Auckland (N Z.) In justice to the
university it should he remembered that Dr.
Laish'ey has not spent much of his time in
Scotland.
Now that General Grant is mouldering in
his grave, the asses of this world are taking run-
ning kicks at the dead lion. When Grant was i n
England many years ago he was followed roun d
by Consul Badeau, and this fussy individual ha s
now written a book about the President’s experi-
ences. When he visited Windsor, Badeau was en-
raged because the General was not invited to
salute the Queen “ with a royal kiss; ” Grant was
not royal and didn’t care one continental for kiss-
ing, but his flunkey was mad. The inhospitable
Queen next tried to shirk Grant’s son Jesse, a cub
of the first water, and the latter got wild when he
heard he was to dine with the royal household,
fancying in his ignorance that the ha f-dozen
dukes and the host of miscellaneous peers and
officers who composed it were merely lackeys, and
Badeau started off to infoim the Queen that Jesse
would dine with her —or leave. The obsequious
consul was stonewalled, however, in his effort to
deliver this message personally, but at last he
managed to con vet' an intimation that Jesse Grant
was not going to feed with the cook and the
housemaid, and Victoria thereupon laid an extra
knife ai d fork for him. finished that day’s
performance by waving his hand graciously to
her majesty, and saying to the Consul “ Bad.
duce us.”


Dosing John Bull To Death.
NARQUIS OF SALISBURY: "WELL I HAVE BEEN DOSING HIM WITH THIS TORY MIXTURE T[?]LL IT HAS MADE HIM ADOUT AS SICK AS HE CAN BE BUT I MUST EERP ON GIVING IT ALTHOUGH ITS SURE TO KILL HIM IDONT
SEK WMAT ELSE I CAN DO."
DUKE OF RUTLAND: "AS FRERTRADE DROPS HAVE NEARLY KILLED HIM NOW I THINK [?]S ABOUT TIME WE TRIED SOME PROTECTION."
"London Thursdny The M[?]quis of Saliabury says it is imposnible to exaggerate the seriou[?] depression that prevaila in the United Eingdom and he addn that it is hopeless to legislatc with a view of coping with it The Dukc of Butlsnd
says the depr[?]ion is a nationnl dnnger and sttributo[?] it to Freetrade."-Recont Cablegram.


Parkes Riding the 'Igh ’Orse.


BRIEF MENTION.
An English paper says that there is to be
a third trial of the Crawford-Dilke case and that
it will “ abound and overflow with the most
revolting details.” Alfred is always in luck.
A boy brought up before the Melbourne
City Court the oth9r day was stated to have
“chronic dropsy on the brain.” Hi 3 parents
should take oare of him. He is a heaven-born J. P.
War will hasten “ to chasten the headlong
profligacy and anarchy into which the world is
descending.” So says the Bombala Times, and it
is a reliable authority on such topics, doncher-
know.
Sydney News last week produced a par.
labelled “ Interesting to Bakers.” The News
should frame that par. To produce any news at
all that is Interesting to anybody is a wonderful
triumph for the paper.
“ Her Majesty’s Jubilee year takes place
in India to-day,” is the concise announcement of
a last week’s Melbourne paper. Such sentences as
these prove that journalism is rapidly absorbing
the culture and intellect of the community.
A Woolloomooloo correspondent of the
Sydney Globe complains of the scarcity of
police in his suburb. He must be patient. There
will be plenty of policemen again as soon as
Parkes’ electioneering bodyguard of “The Blues ”
is disbanded.
“I was only in pursuit of virtue,” whim-
pered a Rockhampton youth, who was caught
chasing a woman down the street. He may have
been, but it is rather risky to pronounce an
opinion on the point without knowing something
more of the case.
A Melbourne paper says that, in his pam-
phlet on Imperial Federation, Mortimer Franklyn
has treated the subject “ exhaustively.” We can
quite believe this There won’t be much left in it
for anybody who comes after if Mortimer is iu
anything like his old Melbourne form.
A correspondent writes to the Melbourne
Hekald for an answer to “ A question of Eti-
quette." He will probably follow this up by
writing to the Licensed Victualleh for a solu-
tion of his religious doubts, or to the Fresby-
terian for a dissertation on Brotherly Love.
A general migration from Brunswick (a
suburb of Melbourne) has begun. This is due to the
local Bench having expressed their determination
to suppress the use of blasphemy. The inhabitants,
almost to a man, seem to feel that existence in
Brunswick without blasphemy is impossible.
The editor of tho Tcrowie (S. A.) Enter-
prise has had his flour mill burnt down, It is
supposed that his old professional desire to in-
crease the circulation made him keep the mill-
stones on a too active whiz, or else he was fol-
lowed round and flre-sticked by his “ constant
reader.”
Adam Spasm, of Hawthorn (Vic.) was
summoned to appear before Judge Cope the other
day. He did not appear. Then he was ordered
to be on hand the next day. He was not on hand.
Then he was fined. He sent the fine by a friend
and was fined again—nine pounds in all. A man
of this kind is a valuable citizen.
He was a now-chum —a regular Johnny
raw—and the boss sent him out one day with
some strychnine and told him to poison a sheep, as
the dogs were getting troublesome. When he
came back they asked him whether ho had poi-
soned the sheep, and he remarked : “My word 1
I should think so 1 I made him swallow the whole
bottle full.”
“ A death-adder 10 inches long was
caught in the centre of the city while excavating
for a new building.” That’s the little yarn a
Sydney correspondent sends to a Melbourne
paper. The snake anecdote is developing out of
all reason. We expect they'll set the ten-inch
adder climbing up a ladder with a hod of bricks
before the week’s out.
A correspondent to a Melbourne daily
suggests that the presentation of a crown com-
posed of colonial gold would be a fitting tribute of
loyalty from Victoria to Victoria’s Queen on the
occasion of the jubilee corrobboree. We would
like to draw that party’s attention to the size of
Her Gracious’s head, and the decrease in the Vic-
torian gold-yield for last year.
An old curmudgeon who died in England
lately left legacies to the extent of £55,000, and
stipulated for a brass band at his funeral and a
banquet to the mourners. By the time the last
bones of the banquet had been picked clean, it
was ascertained that his whole possessions con-
sisted of a 30s. horse and £3 worth of coarse hay.
He had sprung a joke on the confiding public.
Nunc dimitt i«. Now we are ready to
leave this vale of tears. A new kind of beer has
been invented. It is called Conversational Beer.
The inventors say it will be the beer of the future.
Perhaps. If so, the intelligent foreigner, travel-
ling in British speaking countries, will set down
Borne such remark as this : “ The English language
is very simple. It consists mostly of hiccups.”
Judge Wilson has been cremated in effigy
by the people of Tauranga (N.Z.), for preventing
an excursion party from that plaoe from landing
on White Island This choice spot is composed of
pure sul phur, the greater part of it in a state of
fusion and eruption. The Taurangaites, may be,
had a notion that they would like to see for them-
selves the sort of place their parsons talked so
much about.
Among a lot of gods recently unearthed
in New Guinea was a deity which, accord-
ing to a Queensland paper, possesses “ a
face, about a yard long, fashioned out of a flat
piece of timber, which bears no resemblance to
anything human or More recent and ac-
curate news, however, states that the head-piece of
the god was meant to be imitative of the counten-
ance of “ our only statesman.”
He was a pious, god-fearing minister who
had just recovered from a serious illness, and
when he called at the residence of a member of
his flock the daughter of the house, who opened
the door, effusively exclaimed: “Oh, I am so
glad to see you again! Why, you are really
‘ back from the jaws of death ; back from the
mouth of hell.’ ’’ That girl dropped Tennyson for
a period after that little compliment.
There is a growing dislike among the
deceasing inhab tants of Melbourne to be buried
in the Melbourne Cemetery. There are too many
elements of uncertainty about it. Only the other
day a widow awoke to the fact that for two hours
she had been mourning over the wrong grave !
This waste of good grief is disheartening. We
should not be surprised if that widow were to
marry again shortly—just out of spite !
“ We have numerous complaints of the
Express going astray, but we can assure oi r
subscribers the fault does not lay (sic) with us,”
says the editor of the Gippsland Express. This
is a hold excus'-. If he did not adorn h s influen-
tial journal with so much green literature, in the |
shape of paragraphs about giant turnips and lead-
ing articles on colossal cabbages, it would never
go astray The goat is not constructed that can I
resist such attractive reading-matter.
It is sad enough to be kicked to death by
a hor3e, but when misprinted poetry is thrown at J
the dead man, as the Queanbeyan Times sliDgs it, j
we will choose a different death. Tennyson is
murdered to console the parents in this style .
‘ Oh for the touch of a varnished hand
And the sound of a voice that is still.”
That “varnished ’ hand would probably revel in
clutcMng the throat of the compositor who set up
that “ quote.”
There is a milkman in South Melbourne
who has a ready wit that a lawyer might envy.
One of his customers caught him watering his
milk at a horse-trough the other day. “ What! ”
said the customer in a rage, “ isn’t it enough that
your milk is full of typhoid without going and
watering it! '’ The milkman turned round, and
smiling compassionately, said to two or three by-
standers : ‘ What can you do with a man like
this ? He actually wants his typhoid straight .”
In a Melbourne court the other day :
“ You’re not a fool, you know,” said Lawyer
Pcirves, in a sarcastic tone to RetalHck, the’ green
Cornishman, who was got at for a cool £3500 by
Smyth, the lay preacher. “ I'm ycfur brother,”
replied the cousin Jack. “ How do you flguie
that out?” “In the tie of nature,” continued
the K.G. “ Bah ! ” snorted the legal light, “ the
only tie that can connect you and me is the hang-
man’s knot! ” Can it he then that Mr. Purves
aspires to the hangman’s billet?
THE DEATH OF PAT R[?]BIN
Who killed Pat Robin ?
“ I,” said long Dibbs,
“ With my dig in the ribs.
I killed Pat Robin.”
This i3 long Dibbs
Hitt ing Pat in the ribs.
Who saw him die ?
“ I,” said Reid the sly,
“ With my glass to my eye.
I saw him die.”
This is Reid the sly,
Watching Pat die.
Who’ll take his place ?
“ I,” said Sir Harry,
“ And Freetrade I'll carry,
I’ll take his place.”
This is Sir Harry
Trying Freetrade to carry.
Who’ll toll his knell ?
“I,” said the Tel—
“ For I do it so well.
I’ll toll his knell!
This is the Tel
Tolling Pat’s knell.
Who’ll give him a cheer ?
“ Well, nobody here,”
Faid Noild with a sneer,
“None will give him a cheer,”.
This is Neild with a sneer
At Pat wanting a cheer.
And nobody fell a sighing or sobbing
Or cared for the death of poor Pat Robin.
Only a Jockey.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“ Richard Bennison, a jockey, aged 14,
while riding William Tell In his training, was
thrown and killed. The horse is luckily unin-
jured.”—Me bourne Wire
Out in the grey cheerless chill of the morniDg
light,
Out on the track where the night shades still
lurk,
Ere the first gleam of thesungod’s returning light,
Round come the racehorses early at work.
Reefing, and pulling, and racing so readily,
Close sit the jockey-hoys nolding them hard,
“ Steady the stallion there—canter him steadily,”
“ Don’t let him gallop so much as a yard.”
Fiercely he fights while the others run wide of
him,
Mad with the pride of his thoroughbred blood,
Plunges and bucks till the boy that’s outside of
him
Goes to the ground with “ a sick, ning thud.”
“ Stop him there ! Block him there ! Drive him
in carefully,
Lead him about till he’s quiet and cool,
Sound as a bell! though h«’s blown himself fear-
fully,
Now let us pick up this poor little fool.
Stunned? Oh, by Jove, I’m afraid it’s a case
with him ;
Ride for the doetor ! keep bathing his head !
Send for a cart to go down to our place with
him ”
No use 1 One leng sigh and the little chap’s dead.
Only a jockey-boy ! foul-mouthed and bad you see,
Ignorant, heathenish, gone to hi 3 rest.
Parson or Presbyter, Pharisee, Sadducee,
What did you do for him—bad was the best ?
Negroes and foreigners, all have a claim on you ;
Yearly you send your well-advertised hoard,
But the poor jockey-boy— shame on you, shame on
you,
Peed ye my little ones—what said the Lord.
Him ye held less than the outer barbarian,
Left him bo die in his ignorant sin ;
Have you no principles, humanitarian ?
Have you no precept—“ go gather them in ? ”
“ Only a jockey ! we takes no acoount of ’em ;
If the horse is all right we've no reason to oara.
Plenty more jockey'boys—any amount of ’em—
But horses like this one we never can spare.”
THE BANJO.
About Some Old Valentine[?].
It was Sunday, February 13th, 1887.
“ Don’t you think Valentine's Day is a quite too
lovely institution?" she murmured, as we sat in
the gloaming, hanging bee-like upon the honey qI
one another's lips.
Maud’s melodious query set us thinking of the
buried past. Ghosts of half-forgotten sweethearts
flitted before us bearing in their hands the dust
and ashes of long-decayed Valentines. Remnants
of withered rose leaves, fragments of 15-button
gloves, bits of broken boxes, seemed to float upon
the night wind. (Dwell upon the “i” in “wind,”
and sigh a soft accompaniment, dear reader.)
Little did Maud guess, as we squeezed her hand
' and looked three-volume novels into her glorious
eyes, that our thoughts were far away. She was
troubled by no nasty speotres of admirers gone.
Maud Is youog and innocent—we are neither. A
contraire —as the Irish say in their delightfu
brogue—we have torn our passion to tatters, anc
grown old, so to speak, in love. Her faith In
is phenomenal, but vastly soothing, and we are
be married in July. Hut touching those shade
of vanished days—those memorios of what rnigh
have been, but wasn't.
The first Valentine that ever brought the tel -
tale flush to cmr cheek came from a cook of ma
ture years. We werp growing in wisdom ant
stature at a boarding-school for young gentlomen
and she superintended the commissariat depart
ment. Her name was Mary, and it was a tradi
tion in the sAool that she had been handed down
from generation to generation of principals as par
of the goodwill of the academy.
This may have been so or it may not. Mary
was one of those women you wouldn’t like to be
about. She might have waddled into the Ark
along with all the other animals, or she might not
have been a day over 75 at the time of which We
write. It is sufficient that she conceived for us a
mad passion for love and poetry. Before the cook
sent that valentine we were badly mashed on a
celebrated poster-picture of the period—the pic-
ture of a maiden fixing up her luxuriant
tresses with Mrs. Somebody’s hair-restorer. How-
ever, this is a digression.
The cook's Valentine was poetic and practical—
a strong pasteboard-box, oentaining a fancy paper
token—all Cupids and Forget-me-nots—covering a
tooth-comb folded in tin foil. Such a revelation
of the depth of woman's love touched us nearly.
We should probably have eloped with old Mary but
that certain events intervened She took ill and
died and her sorrowing Romeo was removed to a
“finishing” sohool. As a young man “in the
city” (London, by the way") we wallowed in love.
Our first Valentine's Day in business seriously im-
paired our constitution. From the Ist of January
until February i-ith we lunched off atmosphere,
washed down by draughts of cool, fresh water
from Aldgate Pump, in order that we might be
a ole to buy something handsome for Clara. It
ivas our firm conviction that the Universe didn’t
contain enough Valentine to do justice to that
i oung woman, and we secretly wept at finding we
could only afford six pairs of gloves, a smelling-
b ittle, and a silk Acini. Dear little Clara I That
very flchrt was thrown across her shoulders when
she started on her wedding-tour—with Robinson.
We had been all in all to one another until the
Valentine episode, but after that her feelings
changed. She told us that “Mamma” fait sure
we must be extravagnntjudgisg from our reckless
expenditure, and that Mamma had advised her to
acceot Robinson because hs only sent a “ shilling
paper one,” and would be certain to get on in the
world. And for this we had waxed thin on pump
water 1
After the Clara disappointment we made our
yearly sacrifice to St. Valentine cover a larger
aroa of affection. Single pair of gloves, all sizes
and colours, were posted to girls of corresponding
variety. Why we impoverished ourself in this
way, goodness only knows. It began in vanity,
perhaps, and generally led to vexation of spirit.
’ Twas our habit to send all these Valentines anony-
mously, and wonder whether the fair recipients
guessed the name of their admirer. Mellowed as
we now are by the gentle touch of Time, we have
reason to believe that tho girls didn't guess or
else held us in contempt for moving in such a
mysterious way. The open hearted little darlings
don’t like mystery about Valentines. They prefer
their “ boy’s” card along with the goods, so that
they can show it to some other girl who is sweet
in the same quarter, and double the minx up with
envy. It was some years before we learned this
great truth—from a barmaid—and the information
was acquired under rather painful circumstances.
We sent “Lily” (that was the name our grog-dis-
penser professed to have received at baptism—if
she ever was christened with anything weaker
than gin and water) a massive box of flowers and
a Morocco-leather purse. No name inside. Just
tied up the box and stencilled the address on the
lid. On the evening of the day so inanely cele-
brated we walked round to the Blue Lion and saw
our Lily. Some of the flowers were at her neck,
and the rest were scattered round the bar in
mashers’ buttonholes.
“ Get any Valentines, Lil?” we tenderly en-
quired.
“ Lots,” said she, “ and all these flowers came
without a name. Did you send them, duckey ? ”
We toyed with our go of “ hot Scotch,” and
smiled au affirmative.
“ Why didn’t you put your card inside ? ”
“ Thought it wasn’t the proper thing, Lily.”
Yes, my dear. Give me one of your labels
and I’ll put it in the box. Lottie expected some-
thing from you ; when she see 3 the card won't she
just swear 1”
This was a rude awakening from a romantic
dream, but the lesson was not wasted on us. For
the next four or i«e years we printed our name
large at the bottom of Valentine boxes and were
much sought after by our young female acquain-
tances as the 11th of February drewnigfo at hand.
Generady we folded iacriminative letters between
the gloves or secreted copies of verses in the scent
bottles. These always fetched’em. We got re-
turn Valentines by the next post and breach of
promise writs a few months later. The old order
changeth, though, and everything becomes new.
Valentine’s Day in Australia is not at all what it
was in Kngland. Those spectres that haunted
our gloaming on Sunday might bs described as
British to the backbone, only they hadn’t any
backbones.
We had forgotten that the day ever was
until Maud put the question whioh sent us off
into dreamland. But we did send two Valentines
this year. An ugly one to Sir Henry Parkes and
a perfect “ gem ”to our Maud, bless her! TTie
latter cost 50s. and never came to hand.


This
WICKED WORLD
“P.M. : “Who was pie sent when you
were assaulted?” Prosecutor: “Faith, nobody
but myself and—to the best of my belief—the
prisoner, your worship.” A Queensland paper
informs its readers that “ there are only 12
smokers in the island of St. Kilda including the
minister and another old woman.”....A Melbourne
father and son years ago parted in anger, the son
leaving the paternal roof to seek his misfortune in
a far country. And after a time the father re-
lented, and finding the address of his son wired in
laoonio words, “ The veal spread is ready when
you are.” And the son dropped and girded up
“bluey,” and in due time the fatted calf was
slaughtered and joy once more reigned beneath
the ancestral roof t r0e....... The absence of rabies
in Australian dogs is by competent medical
authority ascribed to the faot that dogs can here
easily enough obtain pure water from the drinking
troughs. It is the absence of such facilities that
makes hydrophobia so common in London
“ Vote for Tom O’Shaughnessy and clean yards,”
says a candidate for municipal honours at Nor-
manton (Q.). What a noble prospect is placed
before the voters by these few and modest words !
Some of the people of Sandhurst (Vic.) protest
vigorously against the conduct of the Chief Com-
missioner of Police in merely reprimanding the
policeman who said that Bailes was more moral
than Wales. The quartz-crushing grovellers want
the bobby hanged and quartered In Rock-
hampton (Q.) police court. P.M. : “Have you
found that man’s address yet?” “No, yer
washup ” P.M. : “How is that?” “Because
yer warshup, he’s dead, yer warshup.” That,
after all, does not seem to ba a sufficient excuse
There can hardly be any doubt as to the post
mortem destination of a Rockhampton man
The reoent heavy rains in Rockhampton have
caused a plague of boils among the inhabitants.
’Tis funny to watch the grimaces of boarders tak-
ing their seats at a table d'hblt. There’s nothing
like boils for making the movements of the noisy
vulgar slow and graceful Reston, the gaoler,
who bosses the retirement of Caffrey and Penn,
allows no one to see them for fear a confession
might be extorted from them. An Auckland
paper calls Reston “ the boss official prevaricator
of New Zealand.” But this can't be so The
papers knock him silly at that work An Auck-
land milkman who purchased an allotment under
the misapprehension that it was £2O for the lot,
instead of £2O per foot, erected a disreputable old
humpy on the plot in order to force his aristo-
cratic neighbours to buy him out at a big figure.
Prestnt indications point to his making a big
profit on the spec A man named Robinson,
who said his age was 101, was sentenced to three
months imprisonment at Sydney Water Police
Court the other day. The sun of the Robinsons
is evidently setting ...The lioensed victuallers of
Ballarat had a pionic in Port Phillip the other
day. The steamer in which they went staggered
on to a sandbank, and was not got off till the
next morning. Even it couldn’t keep sober ! The
aooursed drink again 1 . ...The Goe-Carr is the
fashionable vehicle in Melbourne now A Mel-
bourne citizen has been fined for swearing at a
goat which he caught in the act of tearing up his
garden stuff. The Bench was Welsh to a man ....
Four thousand ounces of gold from Croydon (Q ),
and three thousand more from Georgetown, es
corted to Normanton last week The St. Helena
(Q ) prisoners have petitioned for a chaplain. They
know they need it. If our memhera of parlia-
ment were only as frank 1
William Hegg, of London, was found
guilty the other day of trying to set a little girl on
flro by throwing a lighted lamp at her. He was a
bad Hegg in every respect. The magistrate let
him off with three months An ancient
beggar of enormous girth was brought up at a
London police oourt an Christmas week. The
beak remanded him that he might be peeled off,
and the examination proved that he was attired
in five ooats, six pairs of stockings, with a re-
serve of 14 pairs in his pockets, and 12 yards of
carpet tied round his body with a hundred yards
of bootlace A sorimmaging Maori, who was
arrested the other day, had three bullet scars, two
bruises from clubs, a fresh dog bite, a broken
no3e, two teeth hanging loose, and a sore ear, yet
he kicked the policeman in three places in his
efforts to avoid having good food, medical atten-
dance, and perfect rest for three months It
cost only £792 to bury the lately deceased Earl of
Dalkeith, eldest son of his Grace of Buccleuch
Postage stamps are to bear a portrait of the Queen
“ just as she looks at present.” Which should be
with one eye on the people and the other on her
bank aooount Alvarez, the Havana cigar
manufacturer, produces a light cigar next summer
to be called “La Langtry.” So after all the Lily’s
fame will end in smoke 1 The P. and O.S. Co.
are to call one of the finest steamships ever
launched by them “ The Victoria” in honour of
her Majesty. More Jubilee oompliments! ...A
Michigan (U,S.) evangelist tried, likeßishop Barry,
to mix up polities and the gospel, hut did not
altogether succeed. He told his flock that “ Any
Christian who refuses to vote the Prohibition
ticket ought to he yoked to the devil and made to
toil for a thousand years on the hot pavements of
hell.” Since publishing this piece of advice he
has been advertising for another billet Henry
Ward Beecher's congregation wile away the
time (supposing they arrive too soon) before he ap-
pears by reading the Sunday newspapers. Here
is a brilliant example for Dr. Jefferis’ hearers.......
Dr. Livingstone discovered in Africa a kind of
Gorilla locally known as the Soko. A specimen
has just been returned by the enlightened electors
of [Superior libel excised. —Ed. B ] The Soko!
It is a splendid name. Think over it Whisky
sells in Spain for about a halfpenny per square
drink, and it is a good mouth-filling drink, too.
Splendid chance in Spain for a really progressive
pre3S A prisoner started to sing in a London
police court the other day, and when the beak
rose up and asked what he meant by it he said
his Washup looked so glum that he wanted to
cheer him up.
SHAMMING.
(By THERMO.)
p
EOPLE who have money,
and who have moneyed
friends, pass a very com-
fortable time in seclusion,
whenever their conduct has
been such as to compel an
involuntary residence with-
in prison walls.
That is my belief, and a
practical proof of it was
furnished in the following
incident, the scene of which
is laid in an Australian
colony:—
A certain land specu-
lator had committed “an
error,” and after a most patient trial wag found
guilty and sentenced to thre9 years. He had a
particular friend, an outside medical man, who
visited him daily, as it was given out he was suffer-
ing from a peculiar paralytic affection, in regard
to which this particular medico was esteemed a
"pecialist. It struck me that perhaps the
patient did not want to be “ cured ” right off, and
as he had been lingering—in the case of common
A NEW VEGETABLE TO HIM.
OLD STONEFENOE (who was raised on the N[?]-N[?]) : “[?]K AN’ TILE PLANT!
THAT’S SOMETHIN’NEW, AIN’T IT? I ALLERS THOUGH [?] THEY MADE 'EM
WITH A MACHINE, BUT SEEMS LIKE AS OW THEY GROWS ’EM IN SYDNEY.”
people they call it malingering—for a long time, I
thought I would pay him a friendly visit, and see
what was up.
I procured a private order from the head of the
department, which entitled me to see the
“ prisoner ” alone. On presenting my order to
the Governor of the gaol, he said, “Of course
you can see him, but he is not able to talk to any-
body." “ All right," I remarked, “1 only want
to see him as an old friend.”
The Governor called a warder and said, “Take
this gentleman to see the prisoner named in this
order, and let him see him alone.” In company
with the warder I marched through several pas-
sages and came to the hospital, where, the official
informed me, the prisoner was a patient, so ill
that he could scarcely speak, and his own medical
adviser was permitted to see him every day with
a view, to his recovery.
Presently he pointed to a man sitting by himself
with a stick in his hand, upon which he apparently
leant to steady himself. The role was paralysis,
and, of course, he was rather shaky and required
the staff to keep him from toppling over. He had
a dark pair of goggles on, which prevented
ordinary people seeing his eyes This proved a
capital mask, and had been ordered by “hisfriend
the doctor ” to prevent the sunlight damaging his
optics It also answered admirably to prevent
their keen and steady gaze betraying his little
game.
I sat down alongside of him, and whispered, “ I
have come to tell you there is a very general
opinion abroad you have suffered sufficiently, and
that the remainder of the sentence should be re-
mitted and you set at liberty.”
“Have you seen my friend the doctor?” he re-
marked in his usual tpne, without the slightest
hitch or touch of paralysis on his tongue. And
peering closely through the goggles I could dis-
tinctly see the sharp and brilliant twinkle of his
eye as of old.
“ No,” I replied, “ I came of my own accord,
an I as ihere is to be an appeal to the country my
influence with some of the Ministers may he of
some use ; so I thought of offering you a helping
hand.”
He seemed very eager to avail himself of my
proffered assistance, and after chatting away
cheerfully for about half an-hour I left him, bear-
ing with me this last request, “ Be sure and see
my friend the doctor."
I did not then think, neither do I now think,
that he could have kept up “ his little game ”
without the Governor of the gaol being, to some
extent, privy to it. I am the more of that
opinion, because an inquiry was afterwards l
ordered into the conduct of that Governor in
another matter, the circumstances surrounding
which left no doubt on my mind that he under-
stood “ how many beans make five.”
Some days afterwards I interviewed “his friend
the doctor.” He received me very courteously,
but lowered his tone considerably when I told him
that I had had an interview with his patient in
the gaol hospital. “ Oh,” ho said with affected
surprise, “ you shou’d not have done that without
my knowledge or my being present ; you might
have upset him ; besides, he could only reply to
you in monosyllables.”
“ I know, to ordinary people, that would be so,
doctor ; but when an old friend like me paid him
an unexpected- visit the memory of old times
woke him up, and ‘ the bands of his tongue ’ were
loosed. In short, the electric force of a shake of
my hand had a galvanic power upon his nerves,
which kept in first-class order as long as I re
mained with him ”
“ His friend the doctor ” eyed me rather hard,
and when I detailed my plan to move the Govern-
ment for a pardon, he rather curtly remarked,
“Ob, we are doing that, and the member for this
electorate is working with us, and he is a co-
religionist of my friend in the hospital.”
Some time afterwards, 1 saw “ his friend in the
hospital ” disguised and muffled in a hansom
driving in the direction of his home, and I natur-
ally concluded the doctor had succeeded in getting
him out
And so he had, but it was only a temporary
parole to lighten the irksomeness of his punish-
ment. How ic was managed I never would have
known, but for the fact of a certain gaol-ofticial con-
tracting a fatal illness, during which I saw him on
his death-bed. He was still capable of talkirg and
seemed to enjoy my conversation. We were
alone, and amongst other things I mentioned the
fact of my seeing the lond-speculator disguised
and muffled paying a sly visit to his home.
“ Don’t you know how that is managed ?” he said,
as thoughts of the familiar scenes of his profession
lent new energy to Ms waning life—“ Why, money
can and does do almost anything. Hehas only topro-
perly tip the proper man and the thing is as easy
as shclMng peas John Chinaman is supposed to
be the only one who suffers by proxy, but don’t
you believe it. On visiting days a rich prisoner is
visited by two friends, with a special order to see
him privately. Oneof iheseisof his size and general
appearance, and has a false beard and moustache.
They change dress 33 ; the one friend remains in
the cell while the oiher prisoner quietly enjoys a
pleasure-trip, returning, of course, in time to
answer the roll-call, and relieving his bail, who is
well paid for his share in the adventure.”
'E. Tipper, Printer, West Maitland, N.S. W.
Caution, prudence, and forethought are
valuable qualities when a man wants to make his
way in the world. For instance Joseph Hutchison
of Talbot (Vic.), wanted to become a remain, and
being a prudent and far-seeing man he borrowed a
bag and carefully put his legs in it, feeling doubt
ess that they were of no further use to him, and
were as well out of the way. Then he rolled his
fviry figure into a pool which happened to be
handy, and as the green scum closed above him
le had the satisfaction of knowing that the stickle]
backs and frogs couldn’t nibble at his calves and
thus spoil his appearance. His precautions were
successful, and he looked a nice fresh corpse when
be was hauled out.
The Liberal Government of Queensland
bas sprung a Email but very gay joke upon the
starving inhabitants of the Logan district, flhese
people had been drowned out as completely as any
human beings well could ; there was no sign of
victuals on the horizon except when now and then
he corpse of a bullock glode by on the surface of
he waters, and though they waited long and
anxiously, no bread rose in the east. Then they
ippealed to the Colonial Secretary for assistance,
and when they had kept on appealing for some
time the Government steamer Koalo hove in sight
with one small bag of flour, two tins of meat, and
a few miscellaneous rations. It is necessary to
have spent a few days along with the alligators
in a Queensland flood in order to fully appreciate
i his j oke.
A woman of 99 years of age who had been
the wife of a soldier and whose sons had been
killed in the Crimean War, was brought up on a
charge of vagrancy in Melbourne the other day.
She got twelve months. To quote the words of
the Herald—" The probability is, therefore, that
she will not trouble the Court again.”—
So while they rave about the Jubilee
Of her whose lot was always cakes and ale,
They send this poor old party carelessly
To spend her Double Jubilee in gaol.
Most like she'll trouble not that court again,
vAy let us hope “ it won’t again occur,”
Her crime, and that beyond this life of pain
There is some home for poor old souls like her.
4 correspondent writes :—“ Dear Bulle-
tin, —You ask who are “ dacoits ? ” I’ll show
you. In the Indian carrying companies’ way-bills,
there is express provision made for non-responsi-
bility from “ fire, flood, the act of God, and
dacoity.” Now, one Lieut. Hiram Abiff was
travelling in charge of a small detachment up the
Grand Trunk Road, when a gunner staggered up
to his tent with the pleasing remark, “They're a-
drinking sherry-wine over on the road.” On in-
spection a broken-down hackory or bullock-
waggon was seen and the army lying round in a
frightfully dissolute state. The drivers had gone
to procure assistance, not knowing that a camp of
Royal Artillery men would be pitched so near
their loading. The loss was called “ Dacoity,”
although 1 he officer thought it was from fire-flood
and Ihe act of men. That officer is yours to com
mand.
HIRAM ABIFE.
Poems and Lyrics by William Reay."
In several respects this collection is very
much in advance of many that have preceded it
in New South v\ ales. It is distinctly superior to
the volume which Douglas B. W. S'aden heaved
at the head of a community which had done noth-
ing to justify such an infliction, and it in some
qualities outshines the ballads in praise of Pbil.
M‘CarrolTs magnificent mutton and superior
sausages, but yet a perusal of Mr. Reay’swork in-
duces the conviction that the friends who advised
him to submit his poems to the criticism of the
world were hardly qualified to give wise counsel
concerning such a course. The opinion of one of
these friends, Mr. of Newcastle on-Tyne,
England, is printed in the preface, and asserts
that one poem “ is unexcelled by Burns,’ and also
that a form of verse much used by Mr. Reay is,
under his treatment, “ always natural and easy,
and accordingly delightful. It flows as freely and
delightfully as the stream that sparkles in the
light of the morning.” Furthermore, the talented
Skip3ey, upon whom it is averred the Imperial
Government has conferred a poet’s pension, de-
clares in his letter to the author : “all the re3t of
your poems are characterized by a freshness
and sweetness which are not to be
found among the polished writers of
he age. . . . Your songs are full of nature, j
Ye quote the cultured Skipsey (good name fcr
loetry, this—rhymes to “gipsy,” and “tipsy,”
and sounds well) in order to show that it is quite
possible for some men to eDjoy the faculty for ap-
preciating Mr. Reay’s work, although in our own
case this faculty seems to have joined the early-
closing movement and put up the shutters for the
lay, whenever we peruse his work. To the cred t
if the author’s muse it must be stated that, like
”atisha, she has some good points about her, for
he poems are certainly worthy cf some commen-
tation on account of their metrical flow, only
occasionally marred by fals'e quantities and false
rhymes, but there is a lack of thought aDd lack of
purpose throughout. The aim of the writer seen s
rather to have been to make poetry, than to con-
struct a fitting vehicle for noble or romanlic
bought. A couple of verses taken at random
nay be quoted as confirmatory of this view—they
ire included in “ An epistle to a poetical friend ” :
“ But how’s the jade this many a day ?
Has she been sick or thriving ?
Been giving birth to some sweet lay,
Or at some epic driving ?
Or has she been inclined bo roam,
And nothing new recorded ?
Thy life, my friend, must be the poem -
Before she e’er can ward it.”
These lines, it will he noticed, are about as disoon-
n?cted as a Jennings Cabinet, and the subsequent
career of this “ noble poet,” who is to “ soar higher
i till and higher” till spontaneous combustion ensues
md he does an anti-grand climacteric by startirg
lusiness as a sort of mundane comet, is as difficult
1 3 understand as the authorised account of how
surpluses are made. Similar doubts surrounds
the jade who “gives birth to a Jay” and then
st-rts “epic-driving.” Hitherto we may also
venture to remark “poem” has always
ranked as a dissyllable till it obligingly rhy-med
vith “ roam ”at Mr. Reay’s request. Some few
verses are worthy of more complimentary com-
cent. This specimen of picturesque romance
lay be quoted in justice to the alleged bard :
“ Whene’er I gaze upon the opening rose,
And feel her fragrance in the scented air,
I see her blushing ’neath her crimson woes
Because thy gentle presence is not there.”
lut such verses are far beyond the average, and
by reason of their comparative excellence seem
somewhat out of place. Taken as a whole, w e
■aDnot regard the volume a 3 a valuable addition
1 1 Australian or any literature Mr. Reay appeals
t > an Australian constituency-, and yet has pro
i .ced nothing of general Australian interest, and
ias interspersed his work with samples of a
rnguage which is “Greek” to the very large
ajorit.y. Scotchmen who understand what
“ yout silly dish ma-clavers ” are, and w-hat soit
f a person “gash gab blethering Willie ” is likely
,r have resembled may be deeply interested, so
nay dwelbrs in Newcastle (N.S.W.) w-ho catch
he local allusions, but the uninstructed many will
fail to find in the argot and personalities any
atonement for the dismal mediocrity of the verse.
Ye would, however, close this notice by alludirg
•) one matter concerning which the bard merits
tnqualifled praise— has in most cases succeeded
rdmirably in choosing subjects suited to his
lowers. Thus he apostrophises a “Motherless
■alwhich is described as a" guileless ccof
md subsequently devotes an elegy to “ Sadler,”
hioh we find by a foot-note to be a burglarious
oat, and the following elegy is on “ Jenny Het-
iog,” whom the indispensable footnote asserts to
ave been an old woman “who became morbid
md miserly over small coal and manure.” A
uesquite, Mr. James Fletcher, M.P., and Mister
lirrell, are also among his subjects. The majority
•f the poems are addressed to personal friends to
vhom they will doubtless be of some interest.


Society
There was a- “ dook ” on board one of
the Pacific mail steamers on a recent voyage—at
least his fellow-passengers took him for one,
which was all the same ; he had lots of money,
ami, judging from the airs he gave himself, he
might have been enough dukes to fill a cattle-
truck. The weather was burning hot, the ice
supply gave out, and the passengers all wailed,
but the duke walled the loudest of them all, and
went about with his tongue hanging out like a
dog in the mosquito season. Presently, however,
a thin fellow-passenger sidled up to him, and said
through his nose : ‘ ‘ Look here ; I know where
there’s some ice. Now if I keep you in ice will
you keep me in brandy? That’s a fair deal, ain’t
it ? ” The aristocrat jumped at the offer at once,
and for three days he and his friend revelled in
cool drinks to tbe exclusion of their parched fel-
low-passengers, and then the supply of the cool-
ing medium agsin failed. “Can’t you raise a
little more ? ” said the duke plaintively on the
fourth day. “Well,” said his friend, “I might,
but I don’t like to. You see, if I take away any
more my cousin won’t keep.”
Australian politeness has long been pro-
verbial, and the chivalry of the Australian is a
marked feature in his character, inasmuch as he
seldom hits an unoffending stranger twice on the
same eye with the same brick. But his courtesy,
as compared with that of the Frenchman, is as
insignificant as one oat to a hungry horse. A very
few weeks ago the French Resident in Madagascar
was invited, as a high compliment, to be present
—along with the inky magnates of the land—
when the Queen took her annual bath, and his
savoir faire actually carried him through the
ordeal. Washing and clothes, by the way, have
only recently been introduced in Madagascar ; a
few years ago the correct costume was a pat of
butter on top of the head, the rest beiDg dirt and
grease, and sometimes by economy and good
management the same pat and the same dirt
would be made to last for years ; but now the
Queen bathes once at least every 12 months, and
the innocent old lady makes a festival of it.
When the ceremony was concluded the water was
sprinkled over the crowd, and as the Resident had
a front seat he got a decent share. It was impos-
sible to dodge the slosh of hot pea-soup which, as
a special honour, was shot straight at his head by
the High Chamberlain, but he took it smiling and
his polite self-possession never wavered. The
Queen, by the way, is a Christian.
* * *
Prince Henry of Battenberg is not the
milksop that a lot of people try to prove him. He
went out hunting from Windsor Palace once lately,
and led the field from the start. The others who
followed were gamekeepers and lunch-bearers and
sich. The stag was brought on to the ground in a
“ Black Maria ” kept for the purpose, and when
the chase was over the sagacious animal trotted
back to his van, and was driven home again.
Hunting on these lines becomes an innocent and
harmless diversion, unblemished by the excite-
ment and danger inseparable from more bar-
barous and brutal sports. And it might, with ad-
vantage, be adopted in Australia. The common
or garden cow, if tamed a little, would supply the
place of the meek and gentle stag to perfection.
Battenberg deserves a vote of thanks for thus
humanising British sports.
* * *
There is, in a certain N.S.W. township, a
“banker” who occasionally looks on the wine
when it is red and makes a fool of himself in con-
sequence. On one occasion there was a Sunday-
school picnic in full swing near the township, and
the “ banker ” (who had been sedulously splicing
the main brace) rode out to the scene of ac’ion.
When there he set all the “big girls” running
races, he promising them prizes. About six races
were run by the maidens, and the “ banker ” (who
has a wife and several children) was in for boxes
of gloves all round. Next day, however, he was
moderately sober, and when fair “sprinters” be-
sieged the bank for their prizes they were regarded
with a blank stare and some suspicion. The girls are
now all practising with ominous shot guns at deadly
targets. Moral (there is a moral even to a
Sunday-school picnic) : Don’t go to such plaices.
* * *
The pretty, touching, soul-retching—we
mean soul-reaching—hymn, which Lady Colin
Campbell sang at a concert for the benefit of the
poor the day after she got out of her little diffi-
culty, began :
” There’a a beautiful land on high,
’i o its glories I fain would fly.”
But she didn’t fly worth a cent for all that. On
the contrary, she stayed right where she was, and
poor old Argyle had to pay the bill.
* * *
A medical girl-student, in America,
bought the corpse of a man for five dollars—
skinned it, tanned the hide by some sort of pro-
cess, and then cut and sewed it into a reticule on
both sides of which she painted roses and violets !
Nice sort of a hairpin she must be.
* * *
“ The Prince of Wales goes to the
Riviera on a bachelor jaunt,” says a London
paper. “Bachelor jaunt” is good. Looks inno-
cent written, doncherknow.
* * *
The Colin Campbell divorce case cost over
two thousand pounds a day for current expenses ;
what the preliminary exes, were only the two
alleged sinners know. This shows how very much
cheaper it is to be good than to be colincampbellish,
but if the parties had only put a swingeing tariff
duty on to the seats of the courts, they might
have cleared all the expenses and made a pot of
money besides.
While the jury were considering what
verdict to pronounce on that ehoice piece of nasti-
ness, the Colin Campbell case, Lady Colin was a
rather unpleasant object to look upon. She
marched ceaselessly up and down the great hall
of the Law Courts, her face distorted by rage and
fatigue, and every now and then the word
“Devil” was hissed out between her thin lips.
This expression was understood to refer to General
Butler, the hero of many a hard-blundered sham-
fight, who had failed to turn up, and had taken
instead to praying and reading the Bible. Nep-
tune Blood was on hand, but that obscure planet
took care to revolve in a very distant orbit, and
every time he looked at his sister he seemed to
fear that she might come across the hall and kick
him, and Colin Campbell’s freckled, sandy-haired
brothers, whenever thry chanced to come into the
lady’s vicinity, took a long jump to the rear and
looked scared.
* * *
A Rockhampton enquirer writes :
“ Yorkshiremen bring their home superstitions with them
to Queensland. One of them had a dark man (not a nigger)
to call him the first thing on New Year's morning by way of
good luck. Since then the dark man has disappeared with
the Yorkahire one’s better half. Where does the good luck
come in?”
As the inquisitive one is still a single man his
ignorance is not altogether wonderful. When we
were in that sinful city a man who ran away to a
far country with another man’s wife was generally
regarded as a public benefactor. Times have
changed since then ; so have wives. Some of the
latter have changed frequently.
Mr. Weeding, of Melbourne, has at last
got his little divorce case in motion, and the
patent hand-mangle of the law is, as we write,
going round. Dr. Ro3e, the co-respondent, and
his enemy met in the court on Thursday last
and glared at each other; Rose was calm, haughty,
and as cool as a dog’s nose on a sloppy day, while
Weeding was frisky and excited and jumped like
a fat woman in a show. Weeding’s case is that
he objects to his wife and Dr. Rose sitting to-
gether and jogging each other’s feet under the
table ; he also dislikes their habit of driving out
JAWBONE NEILD HAS CUT OFF HIS “SMELLERS ! ”
The Bulletin Artist has not lived in vain.
together with their arms round each other’s
waists, and he desires the doctor to abstain from
the use of bullock-punching language in his wife’s
presence. Dr. Rose, it seems, is an ex-parson and
ex-schoolmaster as well as a physician, and among
other accomplishments he can preach, manage a
school, and flog unruly boys twice his own size,
call sinners to repentance, cure every known ail-
ment except baldness, boil a kettle, and wash and
dress a baby, but he couldn’t dance till Mrs.
Weeding taught him. Also he doesn’t seem to be
much good at walking, for Mr. Weeding says he
once carried him on his back over a bad piece of
road, and if he hadn’t done it the doctor would
have been standing there yet. What an amount
of trouble it would have saved if Weeding had
only had sense enough to knock the doctor's hat
over his eyes at the right moment and leave him
in the mud.
Among the few—the very few— ignoble
and Stiggins-like instincts implanted in the breast
of lovely woman one of the most mischievous is
her desire to look young under all circumstances.
A remarkable instance of this failing is just now
walking round in London. A dowager with a title
and a large income, who has for many years been
growing old on the Continent, has returned to the
land of her ancestors and grown pious and young.
She is really 50 years of age, and her head has
already been rubbed smooth by the sand paper of
Time, but she gets up to resemble five and twenty,
and on Sunday, when she worships at a fashion-
able church in the metropolis, her innocent, child-
ish smile beame like a brass nail in the coffin
of a dude. She is encumbered, however, by two
pretty daughters aged 24 and 25 respectively, but
she paints up this pair of unfortunates to resemble
overgrown hoydens of 14 and 15, and togs them
out i i frocks that stop short at their knees, while
their flowing locks and other childish adornments
are supposed to heighten the delusion. Unluckily
the two “ girls ” are both large and sturdily built;
their limbs are solid and their forms resemble
Jumbo rather than Juno ; they are taller than
their elderly young mamma, and they take a
generous size in boots ; and when these unhappy
damsels of 5 feet 8 inches follow their maternal
ty rant into church in all the glory of their baby
fixings, their load of shamefaced misery is calcu-
lated to move the whole congregation to sympa-
thetic tears.
* • *
“ Percy, if a fire were to break out in the
house, what do you think would be your first
impulse ?” “To carry you to a place of safety at
once,” replied the palpitating gallant. “But,
Pjrcy,” continued the artless one, “ if a fire were
to break out very suddenly just now, for instance,
wouldn’t you lose valuable time having to rush
over to me, way across the room from where you
are sitting ?” And then he soared to realisation
of the fact that half a chair is always plenty for a
truly devoted and distracted lover.
• * *
It was on one of the P. and 0. ships. The
ship’s compass was surrounded by seats which
formed a favourite flirting place with the lady
passengers. So one evening when the captain, as
usual, could not get near the compass for ladies,
he remarked with some asperity : “I wish you
ladies would not sit round the compass ; you have
so much steel wire about you that it make? the
compass point all over the place.” They bu s' led
away then not without much feminine anger.
* » *
A young man who fell violently in love
with Miss Trebeck, of Sydney, has been pro-
nounced insane, and forwarded, carriage paid, to a
lunatic asylum. In justice to Miss Trebeck it
must be stated that the man was proved to be
mad by his extraordinary manner of love-making,
not by the fact that he did fall in love with her.
This distinction is important.
Mr. and Mrs. James Osborne, with their
four daughters and two sons, returned to Vic-
toria by the P. and O steamer Carthage, after an
absence of two years in England.
* » •
Mr. and Mrs. P. Donaldson, of Loch
Creran, Waverley (N.S.W.), celebrated their silver
wedding with much joyousness on the 19th inst.
Gorgeous presents, multitudinous guests, Alfred
Allen, M.L.A., and pretty speeches were pro-
minent incidents of the affair, and a halo of hap-
piness enveloped the entire assemblage. Mr. and
Mrs. Donaldson are somewhat to be envied.
Plenty of people who have done nearly double as
much of their matrimonial sentence don’t seem to
be more than one-half as contented with regard to
the remainder of the term.
* * *
The Sydney Philharmonic Society an-
nounce the performance of “ Elijah” on the 28th
inst. at the University. The Society will be
assisted by Mrs. M'Carthy (contralto), and
Mr. M‘Dougall (tenor), both of whom have kindly
offered their services, while Mrs. M'Donald
(soprano) and Mr. iiannemann (bass) have been
engaged. With this combination aided by several
well-known amateurs, an efficient band, and a
well-drilled chorus, a musical iubilee may be ex-
pected. Subscribers only will be admitted. Lady
Carington has expressed a subdued joy in con-
consenting to attend.
H. M.S. Nelson returns from New Zealand
to Sydney towards the end of the month. Some
rather good dances coming off in April, dontcher-
know.
Mr. and Mrs. C. C. Skaratt, of Summer-
hill (N.S.W.), have issued invitations for a dance
to be held at Nithsdale on March 3rd. Five days
afterwards the marriage of their daughter with
Mr. Fred. M'Quade will take place.
The marriage is announced and will
shortly take place between Mis 3 Watson, ward of
Sir W. J. Clarke, and Mr. Matheson, of New
Zealand.
Mr. E. Johnson, the N.S.W. Under-
secretary for Public Instruction, has sternly re-
fused to let his official subordinates weep golden
tears, in the shape of a testimonial, on his de-
parture for Europe, so they will have to content
themselves with liquid grief of the ordinary briny
brand. The strict meaning of the above is that Mr.
Johnson declines to receive a testimonial from the
officers of the department. The proposal to testi-
Imonialise him was adopted and acted upon without
his consent, the matter having only been brought
under his notice on the 18th February. This date
is immediately subsequent to the issue of last
week's Bulletin in which appeared a prominent
notioe of the proposed presentation.
We have received from the cheerful and
humorous Mr. Jackson, manager of the Sydney
branch of the Union s.s. Co., a finely illustrated
pamphlet descriptive of the holiday resorts of
New Zealand. The present writer knows that
region of wonders by heart, and can back up all
the assertions of the pamphlet. So long as the
visitor is not beguiled into prospecting for
minerals he will find the land of the Maori one of
the most beautiful spots on earth, but if he is
such a choice ass as to go gold hunting there he
will come back freighted only with curses. The
Union Company's boats, too, are among the best
in the world—better, according to Archibald
Forbes, than any even on the Atlantic.
The Hermit of Island Bay is one of the
lions of Wellington (N.Z.). About six years ago
a stranger took up his quarters in a cave on the
sea-shore near the city, and there he has lived
ever since. As a hermit, he is the greatest fraud
extant, and no more resembles the genuine article
than a donkey does a Polar bear. He lives the
life of one, however, all the same, with the excep-
tion that he sometimes visits the city to buy pro-
visiens and get his hair cut. He lives day and
night, year after year, in a dismal hole in the
rocks, where he cooks his food, and sleeps on a
rough couch composed of old clothes and dried
seaweeds. Nobody knows who he is or where
he came from, and, for the matter of that,
probably nobody cares. The reason he gives for
leading a hermit existence is that he once
committed a crime for which he received no legal
punishment, and he is now punishing himself by
living a life of privation and solitude. Numerous
and conflicting theories are current a 3 to his
criminal career, and he is himself unwilling to say
what he has done except that his crime wasn’t
murder. Some think he was a bank manager and
sloped with the contents of the safe; others that
he committed arson and was well insured. We
fear, however, he has even a darker lecord than
these. We have ourselves scanned him with our
eagle eye, and the New Zealand people will pro-
bably be shocked to hear that in the innocent-
looking individual who poses as a hermit in their
midst we recognise the remains of a man who was
once—horrible to relate—a member of Parliament
in New South Wales.
11 Malignancy of speech ” was, according
to Dr. JefFeris, one of the unpardonable sins of
the last N. S.W. Parliament ; and having com-
mented upon this failing, the reverend gentleman
went on to show what such oratory was like by
stating that members had ‘ been guilty of an in-
temperate use of strong drink within the very
walls of Parliament, by which their reasoning
faculties were blunted and wise legislation ren-
dered absolutely impossible." Whence do these
reverend libellers get the information which
enables them to utter such bitter and sweeping
censure ? Reporters and others who are accus-
tomed to be in the Assembly constantly, have fre-
quently sees two or three habitual drunkards
in their customary state of can’t-see-a-hole-
through-a-ladder, but they did not last session
see any one of the legislative workers
drunk “within the very walls of Parliament
yet according to this Congregational censor—who
probably was not in the Assembly ten times during
the set sion. and for aught he has said to the con-
trary was never there at all—drunkenness so pre-
vailed as to make “wise legisla ion utterly im-
possible.” Dr. JefFeris may be guiltless of malig-
nant speech, but he so far outstrips the public
knowledge,and whathas hitherto been thought to be
the truth, as to subject himself to harsh criticism
of those not so well posted up in this Parlia-
mentary drunkenness question as he would seem
to be. Sunday last seems to have been the
reverend gentleman’s little ‘ ‘ day out.” He railed
at the customs of society which uphold “ avarice
injustice, and vice ” —which first sin we may
fairly presume is not absolutely unknown to
sleek apostles of Pitt-street churches ; he “ bar-
racked ” the Lanceahs by a sly allusion to soldiers
who had no courage ; slated merchants devoid of
integrity—possibly meaning the want of integrity
which permits some very holy firms to swindle
the Customs ; and then turned his scathing cen-
sure on to ministers of religion who do not believe
the doctrines they preach—their name we
would parenthetically mention is legion—and then
having nicely hit all the sinful heads within his
range, he slated politicians who are perpetually
borrowing, and newspaper “ which defame pri-
vate character and slander public life." That the
reverend one himself had slandered public life bv
lnjputing wholesale drunkenness to Ms.L.A. is a
trifling fact that he, perhaps inadvertently
omitted to remember. Then after he had declared
himself a Freetrader in terms which show that he
has not more than the faintest glimmering of
what it all means, he advocated the abolition of
liquor in the Parliamentary bar, and concluded
what he calls a seimon. And the morning papers
actually each go and print more than a column of
the stufF. They are a lot worse than he is • no-
body would ever know that he said such extraor-
dinary and absurd things if these papers didn't
go and print them every time.


“THE BULLETIN”
ADVERTISING CHARGES.
One
Insertion.
Per Inch, Single Column, ordinary £lO 0
Paragraph or special matter at double rates.
A series ot insertions by arrangement.
Advertisements of a questionable nature not
taken at any price.
AT.T, ADVERTISEMENTS TO BE PREPAID.
No Agents.
CAUTION.
£3T Printed Receipts on the light-green paper
upplied to its collectors, are alone recognised by
The Bulletin.
PEOPLE I HAVE MET
I.
THE BARONET’S DAUGHTER.
It was in Central Queensland, not very far from
the pastoral towi ship of Springsure, that I met
the Baronet’s daughter. We had turned out for
the night, and the boys had just unyoked, when
Bill remarked with awe, “By Jove !” (I am not
sure that he was quite so classic) * 1 here’s a girl
coming!”
We all stared with wide-eyed curiosity, and sure
enough a young wosan riding easily enough side-
saddle fashion on a man's saddle came up to the
camp, and, with a laughing look around, slid to
the ground and remarked, “lam so tired.” We
were all rather confused—in fact, she the
only self-possessed individual of the party—until
Jim Flannigan had the presence of mind to take
her horse, and, for want of something better to
say, ask her if she’d like a drink of tea.
“ O, thanks ; but I feel so tired and faint—have
you a drop of spirits in the dray 2”
We had some rum which Jim offered her in a
pannikin, and she bashfully drank some mixed
with water. She was a good-looking young
woman, dressed in a fairly-fitting riding-habit ,
which showed off a plump, round figure.
“ You see,” she went on in explanation, “ my
horse threw me, and my brother lent me his, and
went after mine on foot.”
.“ Is your brother in the police 2”, asked Jim
looking at a broad-arrow stamped on the bridle of
the horse he was holding.
“ Yes,” she said, “he’s the inspector.”
“ Well,” remarked Jim, who had constituted
himself spokesman ; “ should you like something
to eat while waiting for your brother to come up ? ”
“ Yes, I should, he might be some time."
“ Jim hung the horse up, and one of us got out
the usual fixings of beef and bread, pickles and
iam.
“ My father,” remarked the young lady as she
seated herself on the tucker-box. and took up the
tin plate offered to her, “is Sir John M’Norton,
who has the plantation near Mackay—l suppose
you have heard of him. He came into the baron-
etcy lately, and my brother and I are going up to
join him and go home.”
The announcement that our camp was graced
by the Daughter of a Baronet was too much for the
youngest of our party. He went behind the
waggon and put a coat on. By this tim i the
young lady had helped herself to beef and bread
and pickles, but before commencing she asked for
a little more spirits, which she drank without
water, and I put the bottle near her.
“Do you think it will be long before your
brother turns up 2” volunteered Jim, to break the
oppressive silence that gathered round the camp
“ Can’t say,” returned Miss M’Norton—“ won’t
he laugh, and what would my dear father say to
see me sitting in a bullock-driver’s camp, eating
pickled onions with a bone-handled steel fork 2”
We all felt this to be rather ungracious on the
part of our fair gu63t, hut nevertheless it was
quite true, for she had emptied the pickle-bottle.
Jim went to the cas3 at the tail of the waggon
and silentiv extracted another bottle.
“Onions, please 2” she exclaimed, looking
sharply up while in the act of helping herself to a
lit' le more rum.
Rum and onions! Alas for the cow-like breath
of the baronet's daughter!
“If she were a man,” whispered Flannigan to
me after handing her the bottle,” I should say he
had been on a howling tear. They always go for
pickled onions—or sauce.”
“ Now I think I’ll be moving,” remarked the
baronet’s daughter. “If one of you will put me
up on my horse I’ll go back and meet my brother.”
But when she got up it was quite evident that she
Was not quite steady on her legs. Unfortunately
at this m jment the bullock-whip attracted her at-
tention, and she reached her hand out for it, le-
marking that she should like to try if she could
crack it. Jim gave it to her, and there was gene
ral clearing out of reach. In an instant, with
practised hands and the professional swing she
had raised it, and with a deep-toned “ Come up
there, Rambler ! ” brought it down on poor Flan-
nigan’s legs as he was hastily scrambling away.
“ Here's a bobby coming 1” said one who was
well out of reach, and looked down the road.
“ Oh! ” it’s my brother,” remarked Miss
M’Norton, flicking the whip carelessly at a pan-
nikin, and the next minute a trooper mounted
lon a aide-saddle rode into the camp with his face
one blazing embodiment of wrath. Reader, did
you ever ride a rough lazy horse on a aide-saddle f
If so you will understand that policeman’s feel-
ings when he descended in our midst.
“ You confounded faggot ! ” he commenced —
“ by the Lord Harry, I'll handcuff you all the rest
of the way to Rockhampton.”
“ Now, brother Tom,” said the fair one sooth-
ingly, “ don’t tear your shirt oyer itand with
another shout of “ Come up ! ” she was using the
bullock-whip again, but in throwing it back it
nearly came across my face, and I caught the fall
and secured it. Then the baronet’s daughter
turned round and cursed me foundly in the
choicest Barcoo.
The lady being now disarmed the camp ex-
pressed its feelings in a general laugh, in which
the policeman was at last fain to join, and explana-
tion ensued.
The lady in custody had been the Terror —
yes, Terror, with a capital T —of the Aramac
township, until at l-st, as the only means of
getting rid of her, she had been committed for
trial on a charge that necessitated her being sent
to Rockhampton, lhe trooper had been sent
down with her, and the pranks she played on
him, had, he informed us, made an old man of
him, and turned him grey. Her most recent freak
had been to jump on Ir s horse when they stopped
at the last roadside pub., leaving him to follow on
the side-saddle. Jim Flannigan, with a spiteful
remembrance of the last of the bullock-whip,
extemporised a dog-chain as a leading-rein for him
and we saw him depart with his fair captive to
pass the night at the neighbouring station, but how
he fared I never heard. He was not very cheer-
ful when he left us, a-.though we liquored him up
with what rum the baronet’s daughter had
spared.
DELCOMVN.
The ominous “ success ” of the Queensland
Loan in London, which was only ju3t covered at a
fraction over par, carries a big moral for N.S.W.
politicians. This colony must be in the market
again within a few months and it is not likely,
considering the present deficit, that the result of
such an application will give eir Henry much
reason to exult over Sir Sawmill.
A Great Bakery Business.
One of the greatest bakery businesses in the
southern hemisphere is that of Mr. Weeks White,
Waterloo and Enmore. Thirteen years ago
Messrs. Weeks and William White came to Syd-
ney from Kent (England), and established a bakery
business in the suburbs of Sydney. By their own
efforts, by hard wo-k, and by unswerving integ-
rity, they made headway from the start, till now
they turn out 50,000 loaves per week. The two
businesses are now separate, and each exhibits in-
creasing vitality. The firm being quiet resolute
workers, confine themselves to simple facts. The
works, a sketch of those at Enmore being here-
with given, are furnished with the latest ap-
pliances, and the wants of the public catered for
with marked good judgment Twenty carts travel
the suburbs. The establishment herewith
illustrated was built from Mr. Weeks
White’s own design, and standing on the
summit of Enmore Heights, affords a com-
manding panoramic view of Marrickville, Botany
Bay, &c. Mr. White, while arduously attending
to business, as may be judged from his success in
so few years, has always lent assistance to any
public movement for the general welfare, and in
recognition of this Mr. White enjoys the honour
of being Mayor of Waterloo. Everyone who
wishes to see industry and integrity rewarded will
be glad to read of the success of these two men
from Kent, and wish them continued prosperity. *
LATENT POWER.
The resent volcanic disturbances in New
Zealand and Tonga, and the great earthquakes in
! the United States, prove nothing more con-
i clusively than the marvellous effects of latent
' power. The terrible outbursts which made new
islands, devastated large tracts of country,
swallowed up lakes, wrecked cities, and blotted
I out human life, find their source in powers which
; have been lying latent within the centre of the
earth perhaps for centuries. Tflese latent powers
accumulate and gather strength with time, until
j they become almost resistless in their nature and
effects ; and it brings the question of latent forces
before ths public in a most striking, even if
I disagreeable manner. In all parts of the land,
and especially at this time of the year, the latent
forces for good or evil in the human system seem
particularly active. People who have been com-
paratively well during the entire season, just now
become aware that they possess nerves, and that
they have muscles and joints with a capacity for
aching. These symptoms all indicate a latent
power within the system, which requires the
grea'est care if it would be controlled. It may be
various in its nature - possibly some hereditary
taint in the blood, some poisonous humor, or some
passing disorder. It is more than likely, however,
that it is the result of latent rheumatism which
has been slowly accumulating its forces during
a longer or shorter period.
What rheumatism actually is, no one really
knows. It has been variously called an affection
of the muscles, a diseasa of the joints, a d range-
iiient of the nerves, and a disorder of the blood.
In its many forms it would almost seem to be a
combination of all these troubles. But that it
is certainly a. blood disorder no one really doubts.
The causes that may combine to bring on this dis-
order called rheumatism may be legion ; but the
vital question must be with all sufferers, not only
how it can be avoided, but being acquired, how
it can be removed. Unchecked, it not only causes
transient pain, but increases to such an extent
that it attacks the joints, causing them to swell,
and incapacitating the sufferer for either mental
or physical exertion. Continued still more, it be-
comes chronic and well-nigh incurable, thus often
blasting the lives of many who were otherwise
designed for the highest enjoyment and success.
But even in its acute form it is dangerous, for
then it is liable at any time to attack the heart or
brain, thus causing death by heart disease or
apoplexy. Or even, should these things be
avoided, it may affect the delicate end sensitive
nerves, thus producing paralysis in one of its
many hideous forms. Rheumatism is a monster
which all may justly dread, and indeed, it is one
of the terrors of our civilization. Whatever else
rneumatism may be, it certainly is a blood dis-
order, and there can be but one way of reaching
this disorder, which is through the organs which
make and purify the blood.
There are only two petals by which the circula-
tion of the system can be reached, and those two
are the kidneys and liver. It is the office of these
great organs|to remove all poisonous matter from
the blood, and no latent rheumatic humor can be
eradicated except by treatment through the kid-
neys and liver. Until recently it) was believed
rheumatism was incurable, and the profession
now generally send their patients to bed for a six
weeks siege. With the advent of Warner’s safe
rheumatic cure, however, all this is changed.
Rheumatism can be subdued, and permanently
cured. This is no experimental compound, but
one which will do more toward removing this
dreadful disease than any other preparation which
has ever before been prepared. It goes directly
to the blood of the system ; driving from it all
uric, lithic, lactic, and other acids, and freeing it
from those poisonous elements that are the primary
causes cf rheumatism. It should be alternated
with Warner's safe cure to obtain the quick-st
results. Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., who are
the proprietors, guarantee to cure ninety-five per
cent, of all rheumatic troublej, especially acute,
if used as directed, and the standing of the firm is
a sufficient guarantee that they will carry it out
to the letter. This medicine has the emphatic
endorsement, not only of the many whom it has
cured, but also of the highest scientific and medi-
cal authorities. Do not suffer longer, but to-day
procure this great remedy and be cured.*
A MELBOURNE REVELATION,
THE ADOLPHUS SMITH.
On a certain bright March morning in ’B4 a
change came over the spirit ol Mrs. Adolphus
Smith’s dream. “ Howto make both ends meet ”
is a problem that vexes her no more. She clothes
herself in contented smiles and new bonnets. The
same amount of housekeeping money, which never
went far enough in the old days, now leaves her
with a balance in hand every Saturday. She has
put away dull care, and opened a small banking ac-
count. For, on the bright March morning afore-
mentioned, the Equitable Co-operative Society
started business at 89 Collin3-street Melbourne,
and Adolphus Smith, Esq., cast off the shackles of
shopkeeper's profits and commenced 'to breathe
again.
Quite a new man is “ Dolly ” since this benefl-
cient Society let him into the secret of buying
goods at a fraction over first cost. He has for-
gotten what promissory notes are like. Meeting
his former acquaintance, Ikey Moses, the money-
lender, in Collins-street yesterday, Adolphus en-
joyed the proud satisfaction of cutting the old
vampire dead. “ The Equitable Co-operative So-
ciety,” a 3 he facetiously puts it, ” rescued him out
of the hands of the Children of Israel, and Moses
had to let him go.”
At eventide Adolphus smokes the pipe of peace
under the spreading chesnut-tree, and owes not
any man. It is pleasant to see Mr. and Mrs. A.
Smith at such time 3. Adolphus, maybe, is calmly
calculating how much he saves per annum through
sticking to co-operative principles, when the wife
drop 3 her golden head on his shoulder and mur-
murs, “ Dolly, darling, order a few things at the
store to-morrow.” Adolphus feels round for his
pocket-book, and proceeds to take down—
“ A nound or two of butter, the child’s embroidered frock,
A corkscrew and a cruet-st.nd,
(They've got seme fresh in stock)
A little piece of bacon, some co-operative shoes
(Size Number 3), a pound of tea
And seme balls of washing blues.”
While Mrs. Adolphus is pausing to get her
second wind, the happy man turns over to the
next page. Then they resume —
“ A pret'y china tea-set, a doz 3 n Dublin stout,
A bedroom sui’e, a hand-bag neat,
(One can't get on without’,
A jar of picalilly, some n -w-laid eggs to hatch,
A box of pills, those shirts of Will's ,
And a yard of silk to match.”
It is useless for Adolphus to protest that he
will be too busy to call at 89 Collins-street in the
morning. His wife crushes him by suggesting
that he can order the goods by telephone from his
office. “ But,” says he, ‘ the tea-set, hand-bag,
and bed-room suite—one must see them.” “ Not
at all necessary, you only need quote a price,”
says she. “ But, my darling, how can I match a
yard of silk through the telephone ? ’ “ Provok-
ing man ! ” sajs Mrs. S., as the meeting retires for
the night.
The secret of the Adolphus Smith’s prosperity
lies in the fact that they patronise the Equitable
Co-operative Society in all its departments. They
defeat the retail enemy all along the line. They
are members of the Society, and understand what
co-operation means. It means supplying yourself,
as buyer, with necessaries at prices which leave
the smallest possible margin of profit to yourself,
as seller, and ultimately acquiring that small
margin of profit in the form of dividends on shares,
and bonuses on purchases. Numbers of misguide
men and women buy their groceries or wines at
lie store, but go to shops—the dear old sixty per
lent, shops—for everything else. They are thus
icking up pennies with one hand, and throwing
way shillings with the other.
Every morning Adolphus arrays himself in
nderwear and overwear procured from the
quit able Co-operative Society. Solomon in all
is glory was not so comfortably clad. Arrived at
tie breakfast table (of the Society’s ownmanufac-
ure) Adolphus drops into a co operative chair and
tikes up the “ Member's Monthly Circular," in
rder to note the latest reductions in the prices,
inon he glances down the festive board and smiles,
iverything on it came from his beloved store ex
ept the milk and the bread—both of which are
hockingly adulterated, and daDgerous to life.
Bread, milk, and fresh butcher's meat are about
he only articles which you can’t procure from the
Squitable Co-operative Society. Everything
slse —from a black broche dre3S to a tooth-pick,
rom a tin of sheeps’ tongues to a mile of ruby-
wist, from Hennessy’s brandy to camphorated
ihalk—can be obtained at that marvellous institu
don which serves the general public at the same
prices as are charged to free and enlightened
shareholders.
The N.S W. squatter, who doesn’t find it ex-
actly convenient to call personally at 89 Collins-
street (or one of the Society’s branch stores), mails
a three-foot list of his requirements. Grocery,
tobacco, furniture, physic, ironmongery, hosiery,
stationery, and sundry other things come along to
him by first boat ; the four-guinea suits, to his
own measurements, follow about five days later.
His cousin in South Australia improves the shin-
ing hour by like means. From Victorian country
districts orders pour into the head office of the
Society, and country store keepers love the Society
as they love their mothers-in-law.
The Equitable Co-operative Society has branch
stores in all the largest suburbs of Melbourne, and
customers in every quarter of the great Australian
continent.
Let not the story of Adolphus Smith be told in
vain. Write for Monthly Price List and a book
of blank order forms. Fill in those 'order forms
industriously, get everything at the store, and be
happy while you may. The money you will save
by so doing can be paid into a deposit account (6
per cent, interest, withdrawable at call) at 89
Collins-street, Melbourne.*
PAIN’S FIREWORKS and ILLUMINATIONS,
IN THE DOMAIN,
In aid of the LOCAL CHARITIES,
TO-NIGHT. TO NIGHT.—24th.
GRAND JUVENILE NIGHT.
HEALTHIEST
and
GRANDEST AMUSEMENT
IN SYDNEY.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, February 22, 1887.
lENDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the following; PUBLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which Is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten-
ders are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature or Work* and Supplies.
Erection of Railway Station Doa-
ford
Erection of Station Building*
Blue Gum (Tint. Wyong Creek,
Use Uoo Ccn*U, and Coortun 1
bong, suction t. Goiford-
Waralah Bailway
Erection of Waiting Shed,
Cockle Creek, and Station
Building, 1 ambton. contract
i. Southern atd Northern
Junction Railway
ITaiUrers' Work. Colonial
Arehiteote' Department, daf'
lug 1887
Supply and Delivery of Railway
Slee pern—lo,ooo
Dates to whio*
Tender*
nan be received
at this office
Tuesday.
March 1,
at 11 o'clock.
JOHN SUTHERLAND.


THE AUSTRALIAN EDITION of the S
Jacobs Oil Family Calendar is distribute
by the agents for that wonderful lubricant on pr
cisely the same' terms as those on which our fore
fathers obtained the Gospel, i e., without mone
and without price. And, in its way, the almana
is but little less wonderful than the oil ; ever
one of its thirty-two pages bristles with a combine
tion of fun and facts contributed by such men
Bill Nye, M'Quad, The Fat Contributor, th
authors of “Texas Siftings,” and a host of other
who have at different times suffered from
eruptions of humor, dislocated limbs, or a deatl
bed desire to do good for their suffering fellow
creatures. It ip, moreover, illustrated in a sty]
calculated to galvanise the cremated remains o:
some of the “old masters,” and make the other
turn over and get browned on the opposite side
A few years ago such a book could not have been
got for money, now it is given'away by the million
So much for the soil; but what about St. Jacob
Of him it is related to his credit that he never ha<
but one father and mother, the latter a German
his father an American, and the offspring—th
only child of the marriage in fact—combining al
the best qualities of each nationality. He is the
only real saint of modem times still living ; but i
is in perfect seclusion, unbrokeD, save by the
Necessities of an occasional interview on purely
business matters with the proprietors of his price
less oil. There are saints innumerable, and o:
various size 3, prices, and qualities, including St
George, who, we are told, “shaved the dragon's
beard, and Askelon was his razor; ” St. Nicholas
who supplied marriageable maidens with bags o:
gold for dowry; St. Patrick, who made a
speciality of snakes and ether insects; and St.
Basil, who outwitted the devil himself; but in the
annals of all the Saints of all the ologies, there is
nowhere any record of such a genial kindly-
natured old gentleman as St. Jacob, the only saint
of that name inside or outside or out of the
Saintly Calendar. How he originally became
possessed of the recipe for this marvellous oil will
probably never be known, and it is a matter of
very small interest in comparison with the asser-
tion made by the proprietors—that every conceiv-
able precaution has been taken to hand it down
to posterity for ever and ever, and to continue the
incalculable benefits derivable from its use to
every class, creed, and color throughout the
United States of America, the Continent of Europe,
and the Queen’s dominions, inclusive of all the
islands of the Pacific which have been, or may
yet bo, grabbed by any other power. If any
further gaurantee were required beyond the
personal testimony of a respectable saint, the
almanac which has now been issued fills the bill
with regard to this astounding universal remedy.
Throughout its pages the testimony of well-known
residents all over the colonies are freely teattered.
Men who can be referred to by post or wire in all
cases within a few hours, and in many instances
the requisite corroboration can be obtained by
personal interview within as many minutes. The
fun of the publication is a fact which none will
dispute, and the facts are given in such eolid
blocks of evidence that there is no possibility of
mistaking them for fun, and all the time the
intelligence of the reader is appealed to in its
perusal.
THE BEER OF BEERS.
The pure, invigorating tonic, the most refresh-
ing and at the same time the most harmless of all
drinks is Clausen’s Champagne Lager Beer. lt a
surprising popularity arises from the discovery of
its intrinsic merits as compared with other brands,
and not the least of its charms is that it leaves no
unpleasant memories behind. It is an admirable
bevenage for temperate people and for all who
dread the results of a strong heady beer in a hot
climate. Medical men prescribe it for invalids
and convalescents, and it recommends itself to the
most fastidioui palates by its crisp and sparkling
purity. There are no painful recollections forced
on the consumer of Clausen’s Champagne Lager
Beer —no half stifled suggestion! of a combination
of garlic with an uucertificated oyster to follow.
Its purity has established its world-wide reputa-
tion. Agents for New South Wale3-Walker,
Lemon, and Co., 56, Margaret-street, Sydney.*
BLACKWELLUS RULL DURHAM
SMOKING TOBACCO
In America by far the finest flavoured and
purest tobacco grown comes from what is termed
the “ Golden Belt” of North Carolina Analyses
by the well-k own Dr. A. Voelker, F.R.S., con-
sulting chemist Royal Agricultural
England, show only a slight trace of nitrates in
this tobacco ; the soil in which it is grown supplies
but a scant degree of same to the leaf. The
choicest offerings of this favored market are
secured by the Blackwell’s Durham Tobacco Com-
pany (successor to the original firm of W. T.
Blackwell and Co.,) of Durham, N.C. (whichtown
is the head-centre of this district), and are used
in the manufacture of its world-renowned “Bull”
Durham smoking tobacco. The tobacco is known
in America as “granulated.” Instead of being
long and stringy as “long cut,” it is in small
flakes or particles, which make it burn freely,
easy drawing, and clear and pleasant to smoke.
Blackwell’s “Bull” Durham is of the finest
tobacco to be found in that region, in its handiest
and best form for the pipe. Pipe-smoking is the
real test of a tobacco ; it is the regal way of smok-
ing ; you get more directly at the flavor and
fragrance ; you take the smoke cooler, and the
tonic robbed of all deleterious matter. A good
pipe you can get anywhere, but not so the
tobacco ; and you will never know the enchant-
ment of a perfect smoke -until you have tried
Blackwell’s genuine “Bull” Durham smoking
tobacco.
American Mail for December 1886.*
“ You’re not fit to clean Parkes’ boots,”
said an elector to Ninian Melville. “But you
are,” was the gentle and flattering retort uttered
in the orator’s sw.eetest style.
In London, the capital of England, the
one country in the world w here Fi eetrade is an
almost universal article of faith, there are now
hundreds of shops where tea, sugar, bacon and
bread may be bought by the farthirg's-worth.
These shops have absorbed almost the who’e trade
of the East End, where hardly one person in a
dozen is able now to lay in a pennyworth of
each article at a time.
THE RETURN OF THE—ATTORNEY.
THE FATHER OF THE PROFESSION: ‘WELL, WILLIAM THOMAS, I’M GLAD TO
SEE YOU BACK FROM YOUR SIX MONTHS’ HOLIDAY. NOW YOU MUST
WORK IIAR' AND TRY TO SAVE MY OTHER SERVANTS IN YOUR PRO-
FESSION ALL THE TROUBLE YOU CAN; FOR YOU MUST REMEM [?]ES THAT
IT WAS VERY KIND OF THEM TO LEI YOU LEAVE YOUR WORK FOR SO
LONG A TIME AS SIX MONTHS."
“Mr. W. T. Coonan has resumed the p[?]actice of his profession.”— Sydney Paver.
Editor Bulletin.— You call Carrathool
“ a email dreamy township.” Let me tell you
that it was no dreamer’s re ; t when the only house
in it was called “ The Dead Finish.” If the pay-
day of the Snaggcrs hit the “ cut out ” of the
Groongal Shed, there were ructions there. Given
Jimmy the Rambler, Orange Ned, Brummy (senior
or junior), Blackguard Sandy, and some other
whalers, plus rum, and the “Finish” was no
“ dreamy township." There has been war in
Carrathool, and love. Jacky Dow’s is just oppo-
site the home of Corroboree Mag and all the rest
of’em. Old “ SliFg the Wire’ is buried close
br. A selector not live miles off forced a great
capitalist, at the muzzle of a gun, to marry his
daughter. The chief df the Snasrgers hung him-
self not very far from Carrathool, and his next in
rank drowned himself. A mile lower down on
the opposite side was “Little Hell” where you
drank and died. Further up were the “ Ma ble
Arch” and the “Doggo;y,” and still further on is
where Foley shot the priest. Dreamy 1 —Yours,
Scotty the Wrinkler.
The mighty feud which has been raging on
the Macleay for the past few years between the
Cupid Smithites and the Dangarites was once
more fanned into a flame by the triumphant entry
of Cupid into Kempsey to begin the electioneering
campaign- Cupid’s speeches dealt chiefly with his
recent visit to the Continong, and the swieet sad
smile which sat upon his visage as he recounted
how he flirted and dined with the elite of the old
world, always fetched a vote of confidence out of
the bushies who assembled to hear him. He has
hitherto refrained from saying anything about
that brochure descriptive of the beautiful Burdett,
and published for “private circulation” only.
Education is said to improve the mind but
* hat is the good of it when there is no mind left
to put it in. Elizabeth Johnstone, of Footscray
(Melbourne), knew five languages, and she was
stuffed with literature and classios as if they had
been shoved in by hydraulic pressure. Then she
started to wrestle with shorthand, and had just
got among the hooked and knobby paitsofthat
language when she put a bullet through her head
and all the information escaped by the hole.
“ Stuffocated with useless knowledge” is just
about the verdict that would meet her case.
A Melbourne paper has suggested a new
and. startlingly original way of making use of noble
visitors, rpeaking of the present ghastly condi-
tion of the Melbourne Morgue it says : “Perhaps
if the Marquis of Huntly, or some other distin-
guished visitor, took the matter up something
would be done.” After this there is only one thing
left for the Marquis of Huntly to do—that is to
drown himself. It is a question of noblesseoblige,
and we trust, for the sake of the fine old aristo-
cratic traditions he represents, that the Markiss
will not be found wanting.
Diarrhcea Dysentery, and Colic —lt ought
to be more generally known throughout N.S.W.
that Freeman’s Original and Genuine Chlorodyne
is a specific for these prevalent Co 7 onial Maladies
Many years ago Freeman’s Chlorodyne acquired
a very high reputation for arresting and curing
these diseases. It is easy to understand, there-
fore, that Freeman’s Chlorodyne i 3 now regarded
by the Colonists as a household remedy. The
directions on each bottle are so clervr that the most
inexperienced men can administer it with perfect
confidence. Freeman’s Chlorody e, if given when
the earliest symptoms of these maladies manifest
themselves, at once arrests their furtl er progress.
Insist upon having “Freeman’s” only. Trade
mar* - , an Elephant.—obtainable from all chemists
and storekeepers.*
“THE BKST IS THE CHEAPEST.”
1 his is an old adage, *nd the essence of wisdom. The besi
medicine and the only sure cure for diseases of the liver,
kidneys and bladder is the old and reliable Dr. Bell’s (Kidney
and Liver) Bi teis. Physicians endorse it high y, and
prescribe it in their practica.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
READ, AND READ CAREFULLY.
The public ars cautioned against those persons
who will persist in attempting to palm off their
spurious imitations of Lager Beer as the Anheuser
Busch Celebrated Brand St. Louis Lager Beer.
The public are requested to observe particularly
by the letter A with an eagle standing upon a
shield looking through the letter A, and the name
of Anheuser on every cork. See the Caution
Label on the Bottle. Impostors are hereby warned
that every imitation of the label will be dealt
with according to law. The Anheuser Busch
famous St. Louis Lager Beer can be had of any
of the wine and spirit merchants throughout Aus-
tralia.*
Premier ball-room decorators of New South Wales Sale
and Dare, deoorators. Ball and banquet rooms tastefully
decorated with flag and floral decorations, 601 Hunter-street
Svdnp.v. *
Cockroaches. Bugs, and all other insects
destroyed by Mitchell’s Insect powder. 6d., Is.
Is. 6d. Rigney, 111 King-street.*
J. TURipt ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF SPRING GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prices.
STOP RIGHT HERB I
JOY FOR EVER !
CONSIDER THIS.
An Autophone costa but 30s. and is a joy for ever
The Autophone is a wonderful little instrument
which, while it weighs less than three pounds has
the lungs of a full sized parlor organ, and executes
its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect. It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three
keys, and all the parts of most diffioult music. On
it a child can correctly play, without instruction,
any of its music, wmch at present consists of ever
300 selections from hymns, oratorios, operas,
waltzes, polkas, marches, popular songs, &0. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, but also has wonderful power in exe-
cuting very lively pieces. IS' It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card holder for convenience
in singing. It is entirely well adapted for country
churches, Sunday schools, the family circle, and
also for dancing. The music is compact, and far
cheaper than that which is made for any organette.
The Autophone Is like every other good thing, the
longer you have it the better you like it, and as
new music is being published every week it has an
endless fund of amusement in it.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Three tunes given in with each instrument.
Additional tunes per last mail. Send for Cata-
logue. Extra music sent on receipt of price.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand :
ORIENTAL GOLD CO., No. 12 POMEROY
CHAMBERS, CASTLEREAGH-ST., SYDNEY.
WATCHES.
The Elgin National Watch Co.'s Watohes are
the best in the world. Read this :
“Elgin National Watch Co., Chicago,
“ Gentlemen, —It gives me pleasure to state
that the performance of the Watch manufactured
by you, and marked ‘ B. W. Raymond No. 19,201,’
whieh I have carried in my pocket for a period of
six months, surpasses in excellence that of any o.
the fine watches I have hitherto tested. It main-
tains its rate even better than a fine box chrono-
meter by Negus, belonging to this observatory.
I have intended, when I shall have leisure, to
make a complete test of the isochronism of the
balance for poise and temperature. So far as I
can judge by the performance of the watch, these
adjustments appear to be nearly perfect.
“ Permit me to congratulate you upon the
successful manufacture of watches whioh are
equal in performance to the pocket chronometers
by Jurgensen, Fordsham, and other celebrated
European makers.
“JAMES C. WATSON,
“Astronomer,
“ Observatory, Ann Arber.
January 28, 1870.”
Remember each and every watch manufactured
by The Elgin Watch Company is a Patent Lever
with compensating-balance. No horizontal or other
inferior movements.
If three pounds is more than you can afford we
meet yeu by reducing the price of the ease. We
can’t and won’t sell you a debased movement.
The Elgin Company does not make such things.
Note. The Elgin Watch Company states. Ore
silver is a new white metal, manufactured and
controlled by ourselves exclusively. These oases
are to all appearance and in wearing qualities the
equal of silver.
Hunting caae, ore silver, stem winding
patent lever, with compensating
balance, Jewelled in 7 holes ... £2 10 0
Do. do. (key winder) ... ...£2 0 0
Elgin National WatchCo.’sKeywinding
Patent Lever, in solid silver patent
dust-band case, with compensating
balance, patent pinion, 7 flnejewels,
open face £3 o 0
Same Watch in hunting case ... £3 18 0
Stem-winding (Keyless) Elgin N. W.
Co.’s compensating-balance, patent-
lever, open crystal face, in solid
silver dust-band case, with 11 fine
ruby jewels, piteut pinion, &c. ... £3 5 0
Same Watch, in hunting-case 8 IS 0
Ladies superb gold lever wateh mag-
nificently engraved hunting case ex-
quisite jewelled movement. No better
in the world £lO q q
We have not space here for further detailed
quotations. We can, however, offer silver-cased
watches at ascending prices up to the finest in the
world at £lO 0 0
OR FOR A FEW SHILLINGS
ORIENTAL GOLD JEWELLERY.
ORIENTAL
is the latest triumph of
Science. It is a nohlo
GOLD
alloy, possessing tie exact lustre, beauty
and endurance of sterling Gold. A legl-
timats use has been fonnd for this noble metal, by
working it into Jewellery of th* most exquisite de-
signs. The Oriental Gold Co.,
hm
large consignments ef these lovely goods, which they
sellat a fraction of the cost of Sterling dold Jewellery.
No one can detect the difference. Send for a
Priced Catalogue, or for one of tfcq fol-
lowing samples, all of Oriental Sold—
Brooches,3s.; Jewelled (Parisian
Brilliant;) Brooch, 7s. 6d.; Gent’s
Albert, is. 6d.; Pair Earrings,
Plainss., Jewelled,7s.6d.; Locket
55., Jewelled, lOs.; Ladies’Alberts
15s. P. 0.0. payable Oriental Gold
Co.
We send these on approval. If they don’t
please, return on-injured by the First
Wail, and we repay the cash, less postage.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
12 POMEROY CHAMBERS,
CASTLEREAGH STREET.
Parcels sent anywhere by post.


lA.t William stow n (Vic.) they’ve got an
nbukmce Corps about a mouth old. Already
ey are prepared to offer their services to St.
ihn’s Ambulance Association ‘'in ca3e of the
ltbreak of hostilities.” They are young at drill,
it old at “oheek.”
Princess Beatrice has hai her photo, taken,
ie consequenoe being that the English pub'ic
listake her for a well-fed, contented cook of 40 or
hereabouts. The portait is full length, and
lee's generous British sole lays waste the fore-
;round of the landscape.
Wellington, the capital of N.Z., is getting
athor notorious a 3 the head-quarters of fraudulent
nerohantt. As a rule, in the colonio3, the head*
,f the boss traders are screwed on pretty tight,
ind they seldom allow themselves to be caught iu
he meshes of the criminal law. In Wellington,
rnwever, several chiefs of once reputable firms
lave not only committed great frands, but have
ilso committed the greater crime of being found
>ufi At present several gentlemen who used to
lo a big trade each in his own line and sport ex-
pansive white waistcoats on Lambton Quay, are
hard at work on the breezy slopes of Mount Gpok,
busy making brioks while the sun Ehines to the
order of Her Most Gracloo* Majesty the Queen.
Beveral more are going through the necessary
preliminaries previous to entering on the same
duties.
It is a curious comment on nineteenth
eeatury civilisation that Thomas HaJl seems to
have poisoned his father-in-law out of fun, love
of experiment, and pure eantankereusness. Cap-
tain Cain’s murder was a bit of sarcastic humour
perpetrated by a promising young man, but it was
pleasure as muoh as business. A very few weeks
after his marwage Hall started to load his wife
with antimony, but he was found out by a nurse
who threatened exposure. He then tried to get
the annoying female locked up In a lunatic
asylum, and though he failed In this attempt he
haunted and worrlbd and cursed the poor, weak-
minded old Gamp tiff she did g» off her head, after
which she drifted Into a mad house without any
further bother. After thi3 Hall used Captain
Cain as a blook te experiment on, and seems to
have enioyed It as muoh as going to the circus.
And when he had finished his experiments he
started a second time on his wife, expecting that
his increased experience would bring him better
fuck. The result confirms us in the opinion that
there is nothing like the old-fashioned axe, after
all.
A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL,
LARRY FOLEY, .the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, if y-ou miss Foley's yon
HAVE NOT SEEN THE TOWN.
High-class Dentistry | Reform Prices.
ARTIFICIALTEETH
, COMPLETESET
, v ?** g ‘ L ou, £
MARSHALL BRO:
DENTISTS
133 ELI Z ABETH ST
Teeth painlessly extracted under nitrotis oxide
gas, daily.
u
sd
MACHINERY.
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS,
LARGE STOCKS
WITI-' A»J£ „
NEWEST DESIGNS
HIGHEST FINISH
LOWEST COST!
CRANES
AND
HOISTING
ENGINES.
LAWN
MOWERS.
LOCOMOTIVES,TUGS, LAUNCHES, &c.
ESTIMATED FOR COMPLETE.
ROBERT COOPER WEBSTER,
SOLE'AGKNT^I
Sydney:
HI, PITT STREET.
Melbourne:
22, KING STREET.
C. H, SMITH & SON,
Manufacturers and Importers
of
HATS “d CAPS,
302 GEORGE STREET,
8 Doors Scwtll et Hunter-street.
tar THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows: —SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branob, Payable op demand. Offices, 1 Park-st.
J, V, WABHEAM, Manager
DR. BELL’S
(KIDNEY AND LIVER)
BITTERS.
NEVER KNOWN TO FAIL.
CURES ALL DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS,
LIVER, BLADDER,
AND URINARY ORGANS, DROPSY, .
GRAVEL, DIABETES, BRIGHT’S DISEASE,
PAINS IN THE BACK,
LOINS, OR SIDE, NERVOUS DISEASE,
RETENTION OR NON-RETENTION OF URINE.
By the use of this REMEDY the stomach and
bowels speedily regain their strength, and the Blood
is purified.
It is pronounced by hundreds of the best doctors to
be the ONLY CURE for all kinds of Kidney and Liver
Diseases.
It is purely vegetable, and cures when other medL-
cines fail.
It is prepared expressly for these diseases, and has
never been known to fail. One trial will convince
you of its value.
AFTER DINNER
Persons who suffer from Indigestion can arrest the
progress of that painful malady by the use of Dr.
Bell’s Bitters, so composed that it will give tone to
the stomach, prevent heartburn, rouse the liver to
healthful action, invigorate the kidneys, and thus,
through the activity of these organs, promote the
natural movement of the stomach and bowels. Dr.
Bell's Bitters are so compounded that their action,
though mild, effectually produces the above results.
They, also, in curing Constipation, remove the cause
of Biliousness, Liver Complaint, Kidney Diseases,
Rheumatism, and many other serious ailments.
Notts.—Any poor Person, or the manager of any
Hospital, Asylum or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Litters gratuitously upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
BELL’S BITTERS
Manufacturing Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND, & AUSTRALIA.
Butcher, Felion & Co., Sydney,
AGENTS FOE
New South Wales & Queensland.
R
OBERT BUTCHER & CO
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Town Hall, Sydney.
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
HEALTH IS WEALTH.
"IuQOi —\
Nfe*V
TREATMf-NT55?§
Dr E 0 West's Nerve and Brain Treatment, a
guaranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions, Fits,
Nervous Neuralgia, Headache, Nervous Prostration, caused by
the use of alcohol or tobac-.0, Wakefulness, Mental Depression,
S( ftening of the Brain resulting in insanity and leading to
m sery, decay, and death, Premature Old Age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain, or over-indulgence. Each box
contains one month’s treatment. ss. a box, or six boxes for
25e., sent by ina'l prepaid on receipt of price. We Guar-
antee six BOXES TO CURE any eASB. With each order ie-
ceivedby us for six boxes, accompanied with 255., we will
send the purchaser our written guarantee to refund the
money if the treatment dooa not effect a euro. Guarantees
issued only by
JOHN C. WEST and 00.,
6§ MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Circular sent free on application.
£lOO Reward!
We wHI pay the ab*ve reward tor any case of liver ooi
plaint, dyspepsia, sick headache, indigestion, constipation
costiveness, we cannot cure with WBBT’S Liver
Pills, when the directions are strictly complied with. They
are purely vesetable, and never fail to give satisfaction.
Large boxes containing 30 sugar-coated pills la. For
all druggists. Beware of counterfeits su>d haitationa. The
genuine manufactured only by
JOHN C. WEST & 00.,
65 Market-street Sydney, N.S*W.
Sent Prepaid by post on reoeipt of la. p-w box in stamps.
"W W "W
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMENT.
Infallible remedy for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
cinrains Dnts Burns, Scalds, Bruises, Headaohe,
Mumps, Hip Disease, White Swelling, Felons, Chilblains
Whitlows, Chapped Hands, Frozen Feet,“(J
Sore Throat and all diseases reqwirmg external application
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers.
Prick Is, and 2s. pkr Bottlk.
JOHN C. WEST & CO., Sole Proprietors.
SYDNEY, CHICAGO and
TOBOVTf.
THEATRE ROYAL.
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgroye
Lessee, Mr, Sam Lazar.
EVERY EVENING, at quarter to 8,
UNDOUBTED SUCCESS
of
CARRIE SWAIN in THE TOMBOY.
Prices as usual.
LHAM B R A MUSIC HAL I.
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith,
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp,
THE BEAUTIES IN THE AIR
THE BEAUTIES IN THE AIR,
Charm and Bewitch the Audience
EVERY EVENING.
Messrs. COWAN, WARNER, and Mr. EDWIN
ROGERS, the Com'c Acrobat and Champion
Dancer of the World, his First Week in this Hall.
Popular Prices : Orchestra Chairs, 2s ; Stal
Is; Balcony, 6d.
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING,
A Grand
SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT, at 7.30
LLAS
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frame* re
oovered. and your
Parasols re-lined and made equa
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street,
Briokfield Hill, between
lilverpool and Bathurst Street*
Parasols made to match oo*
tame*. Renain neafcLv execute
O
V\,o«
o
V
rsll
fs
'
MANUFACTURERS’
& IMPORTERS Pf
HATS CAPS:^c
438jfcfORCE ST
£YDSEY 1
fflpoiifcj'gsset&ra
Pi
e,W
df
sd
V
&
6 Y
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
(ESTABLISHED 1860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auo
tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &c., from the Sotuheri.
Colonies or New Zealand, may be made to Arthur
Martbi & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane;
ftOI*TCASTLE*SO#S|
IMANUFACTURING HATTERS|
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OFALLTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
0
fuD 0 L P H 0 "WO LT E S
SON
G* utytev /(9^(9
ILLUSTRATION (In reduced alee) if £1 Order to be found in the
“LAKGE BOTTLES” OF WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
B
RAD jHi Y, NEWTON, & LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and f'CON NE LL STREETS.
Full suites for dining-room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match.
CHAIR
D
USTING HAMMOCK
Patented.
This choir adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. O’ We can
now supply portable suspension Stands to enable
the Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with
Stand 30/-; Without Stand 25/-.
BRADLEY, NE'VyTON, and LAMB (only).
Packing in canvas, if required 2s. 6d. extra.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably Up-
holstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &c. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell and
Sp 2.ng Streets.
i
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari
oils sizes, fitted with Shelves
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the.space when required. Locks
automatically. One erf the most useful, comma
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O Connell and Spring
Streets. ,
Vi
Drawing room cabi-
nets, Early English at d
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Importers ol High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets
' r :
m
Q pT PIANOFORTE,
3&00 guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brll ant
tone, in handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMI ORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERa
f
ICE
CHESTS,
all sizes.
From 173.
Bradley,
Newton.
and
Lwnb.
sd
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order In
any material. -
ELY-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COU.CH, for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
s
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
fs
Bedsteads, an sizes
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Qreafc variety.
Bedding. —AU descriptions at
lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Importers,
O’Connell and Spring Streets,
df
SPRING MATTRASSEB
Woven Wire, bee
make ; also, Spiral Spring
Price, from 14s. each.
BRADLEY, N'KWTOK S and LAMB
CHEAP FURNITURE.— Pine Tables, from
13s. 6cL ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.j
Chests of Diawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoninre, from 3Qs.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 It e.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. Pd.l
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 60s.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, ard LAMB.


Few of the <?i/~fiofa
ATRWfEC or THE i
lon *i*.lW" AiVrf/o
\fi%'lLE p/uKfiwifc,
fDEV /LiYAy< SMELUS UKE.
/ THAT.WhQ/
fc, i
'Tifc ia/idower
is VeRV CRACKED^
we WfKM>W'
WntTHEK c,RIEF
L ORTrtt St'W' IS A
k 'tV; CAUSE. Jj
in*"*
‘Qs.svc.K ffa
K.Sf
v /?A /-K
iVsioEf-rT \vku
dxya^YuouAaoJl fKi dxidi c fu-r&s an
, V/ flu likvfc cl>v(s sKy 1 <u£i fhjL cthaj f
. (f)k , flvoylc ou/t cvxAfulrJUi, wctbytUfS /auX'i Ikv
Uir cn lhtJoj± •
In Muy
' f/MPIC otf'/oVR /fttf,' PFf.
yes, I i<Kow.nAßuK<;
if? A HCAf 5 ’
if ' rwASA . u - THC vft


"©)
3ALICYL
11l
&
y4/i exquisite
m>JUL j
W PROPRIE TOR,
TOOTHPASTE
Up rivalled fOf\ its/Un septic
/Ho CLEApSIf/G PROPERTIES.
XB,MELHUISH PHARMACEUTJCAL CHEMIST
134 WUUAM ST, SYDAT£Y^4
>OO TS
DOTS
T. WILLIAMS & CO.,
IMPORTERS OF
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Also Manufacturers of
The Finest Quality of Goods in the above Lines.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
S3OH
S3OH
£5O
WARNING!
KRtt Utter b T worthless imitation of that well-known preparation,
USE’S INSECTICIDE, is now being offered for sale, and
«j£ order deceive the unwary, the word Kruse’s is rendered
Usse s ’ 5 on the outside wrapper. The public are hereby cau-
Wi againSt m P os^ure > are advised that FIFTY
REWARD will be paid to anyone giving such evi-
as will lead to the conviction of the makers and vendors of
ma S s P Uri °us article. The genuine KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
easd y distinguished from the imitation. KRUSE’S
label . has a blue wrapper and large white directions
Pro red band bearing the words “ Kruse’s Insecticide, sole
PHetors, FELTON, GRIMWADE, & CO., Melbourne.”
°he ' RIJBE 8 NSICTICII)E ma y had °1 wholesale and retail
13llS^s , an d vendors of proprietary and patent medicines.
sd
By Special AppointmE h
iwiajag]
yak^sty
<?o
«l> »„
««. ' BmOB 0 ' x
GOULET CHAMPAGNE.
: == === &: E3LLES, 54 Margaret-street, Agents for New South Wales.
SIIXRY LANCASTER,
- r?A/ i/An/sgrv
comoi
>y
m
'"o*
<C> £*»■*.
emu
-Ta>
CSI/fT.
NOT
ftf=PE
«HOT
OT WATER
m i iiKininnai
CYLINDER!
KING.
'"EATHE
IP'AN
TROUGH
c An n
br OKEN:|
FOR MANY YEARS
engaged in the
Leading Workshops
of England,
Lately 5 years with
Hudson Bros,,
Manufacturer of
WROUGHT IRON
TANKS & CISTERNS,
of any size or shape,
for squatters, wool-
washers, and station
owners.
Horse and Cattle
Troughs,
of every description,
wrought-iron pipes, s. s.
funnels, ventilators,
See., See.
Estimates cheerfully given.
REDUCED PRICK LISTS APPLICATION.
2??: 66 GEORGE STREET, WEST, near Railway Station.
fiourl Piotirl Flour!
MILLS, I
ST., SYDNEY.
K^* e at Tv/r^^® 8 . Fine Seconds Flour,
f ’ Dones, Bran and Pol-
bh e ys P* 1 hand. All made
at the, i ry ®est wheat procurable,
6 ‘owest prices.
to
0 a) -- KILBY
Vat e X aqill^ f fcho Detective Force),
Bufdi,^ BBin B Friends, and General
4 , 4 » ROYaI 88 Agency ° ffice >
an a L AROa DK, SYDNEY.
*
a°u4 o Li aa V? d in any part of the world
ho a,l <l I^ or ce 0 f w yr °m R. M. R.'b long experience
>n’a 4 n d ®Btablki Soutt Wales, Victoria, and
o, ® lhnt» I hnt» agencies in all parts of the
* atWj . ttricten* 1 00u( lnct all inquiries with caution
aa h) an buoi« Seoresy * and to faithfully and
entrusted to h care.
D*'RIDGE’S
FOOD
: m IFANTS AND INVALIDS
Rag an enormeiis sale in England s
and is mew being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every wise mother will certainly
«r use it.
L it. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
fs
The only place where
pipes are satisfactorily
repaired.
SUPPORT Colonial Industry! Buy your Pipe
at S. ROSENTHAL, l Little Collins
Street, East (opposite Colonial Bank.
Manufacturer of real Meerschaum and Briar
Pipes, wholesale and retail.
B
l
IN<3
zmL Q‘
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
AND ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
PRE PA.R.ELD ONLY E. ,
IThomas Ingham,
R o c k h a m ptj
p
\
i
ECORNILLON & CO., Wine and Spirit
0 Merchants, 22 Bridge street, Sydney,
Hare on Sale—
Mackies & Co. celebrated Whiskie
E. Remy Martin & Co.’s Centanr Brandy, In
bulk and cases
Vve. Martin and Fils Squirrel Brandy
Ca. Vincola del norte de Espana, Rioja Clarets,
Port, &o.
The unequalled A.V.H. Gin, tee., tco.
MASON BROTHERS.
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Eent-etreet,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for
SALE te the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
*< '’ORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
.. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
3*2
1
HIGH-CLASS PHOTOGRAPHY.
Messrs. CHaUmONT & Co.
880 to thank their numerous clients for the
liberal patronage shown to them.
Their PHOTOGRAPHS receive the highest
praise, and are acknowledged to be beautiful and
artistic. Inspection is invited to the choice col-
lection at Portraiture now on exhibition in the
vestibule leading to their Studios in the Royal
Arcade.
MR. THOMAS CLEAVE,
who has had the honour of Photographing Her
Majesty Queen Victoria, T.R.H. Prince and
Princess of Wales, Prince Imperial, fco., Sec., will
personally photograph each sitter.
Messrs. C. and Go. respectfully ask that ladies
desirous of sitting should make appointments in
the early part of the day.
GROSVENOR GALLERIES,
Royal Arcade.
Prices: C.D.Y., 155.; Cabinet*, 30s. per de/.en.
FOLEY’S SIDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL. GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &o. For
terms. Etc., apply to
L. FOLEY,
Manager and Instructor,
&
v 1)
OBTAIN Eli A
>: msj CLAS4S AWA '0
O R
MiFSr DCClft i*i- Mi r; •.
ISTHE BEST INTHE WORLD I!
NONE dTHER BUT
f WAUG H S
'X i V EL) >Hc. ■ r i \ A': *
PR I Z E MEDAL
uiiwiuiispittiMti) iiv bm
A«HOAS«f vn»«*v*
HQwrmjsiwVf *a qnumfimivg
RUSTON PROCTOR & CO.’S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
“TRIUMPH” THRASHING MACHINES.
Simon’s Rollick System or Floor Mullins,
Sole Ageata s
E. C. ELLIOTT & CO.,
til KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Medals—
PARIS, 1*78; CALCUTTA, 1884,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson's Nevreat Perfumes
FAGRJEA & O.YMB ILIUM
are of rare and peculiar fragrance, ana being
registered can be obtained only of the
Inventors or their Agents.
ATKINSSN’S QUININE HAIB LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the fiowth and
improving the appearance of the hair,
guaranteed perfectly harixjess.
ATKINSON S FLORIDA VJATEU
an exceptionally fine perfume for the hand-
kerchief, distilled from the choice >t exotics.
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers —
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
Trade Mark—-“ White Rose” on“ Golden
Lyre.”
V
%
3
0
-It—
.
In the good old days of wet-plate photography, no detective was required t« recognise a dabbler
in the practice of the art. If his clothes did not betray him, his fingers would; silver stains were
everywhere, often on his face, although it was always a mystery how they get there.
Now all this is changed !
DRY PLATES have effected such a revolution that photography is as much a pastime, for
the Ladies as it is for the Gentlemen.
No Dirty Fingers, no stained Clothing, no silver bath to go wrong; no troubles to
encounter except such as can be got over with the exercise of a little care and patience,
Plates of all sices by all the makers at home and abroad can be had from
LICHTNER AND CO.,
24 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND 87 COLLINS STREET EAST, MELBOURNE.
SPECIAL LOW QUOTATIONS TO DEALERS.
Catalogues post free on application.
“BOOKS.” Any Book You Want. “BOOKS.”
ANGUS ROBERTSON.
lit MARKET STREET, SVWWT.T.
Large stock of new and second-hand Books. Prioe of any book on application. {Books sent by
mail to any part of Australia,


ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
Brass and Bell Fonnding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing, Plumbing,
Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Budding, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH,” “VALVE,” and “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan Cowls, «as Fires, Heaters,
Warmers, «fce.
BON ACCORD WORKS,’~B~AND 9 MACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Prior on Application.
WOOD WORKING AND SAW MILL AIACHINERY.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Are SOLE AGENTS for
T. css Co., CianLcirxza-stti
And carry a Large Stock of their Celebrated Machines. 2
EVERY REQUISITE FOR WOOD WORKING AND SAW-MILLING IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogue and Pricks.
Offices and Stores :\7 PITT STREET, Circular Quay, Sydney,
1887. PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL. 1887.
DP. ZE3_
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPIRITS,
Wine and Spirit Stores, and having made large purchases of the best brands of WINES, SPIK ,
BEERS, &c., is now in a better position than ever to cope with the rapid growth of this branc
business.
COUNTRY ORDERS carefully packed in strong secure cases, by a thoroughly efficient staff of
packers, for carriage by Railway, Coach, or Steamer, and delivered free of charge at Redfem Static*,
or any Wharf in the City.
. „ „; rh !,P^ US “ CA3E3 *,^K2wSky S " ,S SPIMT3,
1 Bottle PORT WINS 1 Bottle SHERRY WINB
The articles contained in P.R.L’s assorted cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. Securely packed and forwarded carriage
free bv rail or steamer. To prevent delay, please make Post-office Orders payable at the Haymarket
P.Q. Price Lists post free on application. Special reductions to purchasers of Cases of Wines and
Spirits and Bulk-Goods. , . , _
P, L LAEHN, Wholesale aM Mail Wine aal Spirit Merchant aM Importer,
... PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL* GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS, HAYMAKET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 7,78 and 7,80 George-street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
JsrETW
FURISTITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
I LLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
LEA & PER R IN SSAU CE
SAUC
EA&Tfc'RRIJfJ
In consequence of Imitation# of THE WORCESIERSHIRJS
SAUCE which arc calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label on every battli
bears their Signature thus-
without which no bottle of the original WXjR CESTERSIII. r RM
SA UCE is genuine.
Ask for LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and sac Name on Wrapper, Label, Se/tde and
Stepper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse and
Blackwell London, <s re., See.; and by Grocers and OMmen throughout the- 9V®rl&«
„ ' , ■ -«
Wholesale Agents t Montepiork, Joseph & Co.; David Oohbn & Co., Sydney,
&
o
>
SV
S3
'Wg
dfsdfsdfs
_\I!OE SaHAA,
252 a. Gey rtf e S f
JPett/t
LIGHTEST, BEST, and CHEAPEST.
Lawler’s 608 Lawler’s
GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
Between Liverpool and Bathurst Streets.
FREETRADERS AND PROTECTIONISTS,
Voters, wherever ye be, bear one principle in
mind, and that is that wherever ye find one who
may safely claim to be a public benefactor stand
by hitr.
608 GEORGE STREET Is the address,
LAWLER’S THE FIRM.
Value the power and the secret spell.
Furniture, Bedsteads, Glasses, Chairs, and
Bedding, at extraordinary low rates.
Ironmongery, Glassware, and China. Kitchen
and Household Utensils, at prices that compel ye
to buy.
And several lines of White Shirts at from 3/11
to 9/- each, which simply astounds those who
view.
Note.—There is ONLY ONE LAWLER S,
and that at
608 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
RAW VASELINE,
B
HORSK RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Glippeas,
CoHar Check and Serge, 40 and 44 inches ;
Large assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s Saddles, Spurs, and all kinds of
Saddlers’ Ironmongery, fee.
BLACKBURN & 00.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS, AND SADDLERS
IRONMONGKP c
125 YORK ST., SYDNEY.
IOLESAkE MANUFACTUR!
JANES STEDMAN
oT;£A’M #QRJfS„K-CNT S r NEAR EitSKfHE S?
&P&44 &i'4a**d.ot)UdmaA
a* Jt4o.ftre.sr - -
3?
Coi
ourrrn-V 4 Gmt
WJ O H N S O N
• COOPER, SURVEYOR,
and
LICENSED GAUGER,
11 PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND
STREET, SYDNEY.
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces and Kegs, Tallow
Casks, new and second-hand; also, Wine and
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prices.
KAiIUING IN ALL ITS BRANCHES.
ro WINEGROWERS AND OTHERS.
G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE CASKS, 250 to 400 gallons j
also,
Rum, Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS.
Hogsheads, Quarter-casks, Spirie Kegs, from
gallons and upwards.
COOPERAGE.
?7 KENT STREET, and 174 S¥3SBX STREET,
Hmwm. ttlnsr Warknti j-
DEALERS, GROCERS and DRUGGISTS.
PRIZE MEDALS.
‘3c
;
'•BBS
Bhaut
BOSTON, iB6O.
VIENNA. fBT3;
Phi LA., 167©.
OLD IfEtlAlH*
llw^*
'‘THE STJHlOtf^
:.L.HAUTHAWAY&|Ojt,’
23 i & 2U3 Congress Street*
MASS. w *
A necessity to
family.
Ud |eS
Children's Bo 1
Shoes, Bubbers
Sachets, w |l ,
brusWr> & , "f
gives satisfaction
T
HE FRESH FOOD AND ICE
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
AROAD®’
No. 23 ROYAL
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa,
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left ' L&t
by their carts.
it
They have also taken over the
“KOUMISS.” so highly recommended
nary semplainfes.
FRESH FOOD AND ICE 00.,
Head Office 21 H arb f^e« t '
Stables Liverpool-^
Factory Mittagen*'
Guinness’ Extra St
qUAUP*'
FIRST
I
BASS’ PALE AB® 1
SOLS PURVEYORS to th« oJ(f
COLONIAL. AM» INDIAN
LONDON,
By Special Appointment ,
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WAV*
W. BALCHIN, JOHNSTON
Commercial Chambers,
Try POGONOWS# 1
MUSICAL INSTRUM®
The Largest Assortment in Die Co^
705 GEORGE STREET.
Send for Price List.
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR A
FRYS MALTED COCOA!
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
"AN ORDINARY CUP CONTAINS MORE ACTIVE PROPERTIES OP MALT THAN A PINT OP THE BES™ aLB OR PORTER."—Lakckt.
Manufacturer
OF ALL KINDS OF
DERATED WATERS
CORDIALS, and BITTERS.
ROWLANDS
®NLY
GOLD MED^
CALCUTTA
