

The Bulletin
Vol. B~No. 401
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1887.
Priee., 6d.
“Freetrade and Decentralisation.”


"THE BULLETIN ”
PROPRIETORS: BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.
LIMITED.)
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt- street, Sydney, New South Wales
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only).
Per Annum ... £1 Os. Od.
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12s, Od.
Quarterly 0 6s. 6d,
Cheques Drafts, dc., and all Business Communications to be
addressed to William Maoleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. V. Aechibald
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One-pound
Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you can have The
Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in the
hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to interfere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1887.
The Cursed Drink.
Prom hia place in the Legislative Assembly
of New South Wales a prominent member
Stated a short time ago that he had never
been drunk in his life. A few weeks subse-
quently a Judge of the Supreme Court of
the colony remarked from the bench that he
also, although no abstainer, had never
been seduced by alcohol into confound-
ing his right hand with his left. There
is every reason to believe that both asser-
tions were true. While admitting so much,
there naturally arises the question whether,
in so vehemently declaring their freedom
from a degrading vice, the officials men-
tioned, like many men in private life, are
not assigning a disproportionately high value
to the possession of a negative virtue ; to a
virtue, be it remembered, which is as much
the outcome of the times in which we live as
the coarse language and equivocal situations
found in the dramatic literature of the 17 tb
and 18th centuries were characteristic of the
period of the Restoration and of the
Georges. Let us not be misunderstood.
We have always held strong views on the
curse of intemperance. To us it appears
that no place should be found in the public
service for the habitual tippler, i.e., for the
person who, through an inherited or ac-
quired failing, unfits himaelf for the proper
and decent performance of his duties. The
mistake, however, that many men make is
in claiming that their abstention from in-
toxicants should of itself raise them in the
eyes of their fellows. We deny this claim
we refuse to honour a dunce whose sole title
to public esteem is the negative virtue o: :
sobriety. When the most uncompromising
abstainer finds some one to print hia washy
verses or his last compilation of dreary
platitudes, we say unhesitatingly “ however
admirable you may be as an apostle o '
abstinence we prefer one verse of the non
abstaining ploughman’s ‘ Banks of Ayr ’ to
all your best stanzas welded into one :
single page of the whisky-drinking Lamb to
your entire volume of sprawling prose.”
* *
Two-thirds of the fourteen hundred mil-
lions of people on whom the sun shines daily
seldom or never get drunk. Yet these nine
hundred millions of persons who never
flounder in the moat of inebriety are pre
cisely those to whom civilisation owes least.
It is not to the teeming populations of the
East that the world looks for a Phidias or
Watt, a Raphael or a Faraday. The
civilisation that arose among the wine-bib-
bing Greeks, that was taken up and passed
along by the wine, beer, and spirit-drinking
West, is superior, it will scarcely be denied,
to any that was born and attained its
grotesque maturity among the abstemious
Chinese and Hindoos. Thus, while it would
be absurd to attribute European progress to
the use of alcohol, the fact that semi-
barbarism, stagnation, and even retrogres-
sion characterise the lands where distilled
and fermented liquors are almost unknown
cannot be gainsaid. And so it comes to
this, that the New South Wales law-makers
and law-pounders, whose claims to public
admiration are based on their freedom from
a vicious habit, must be content to allow a
share in the same claims to the largest and
most backward portion of the earth’s people.
It would be well if those eminently-
respectable persons among us, whose only
pretension to be admired is that they rise
without headaches and fill newspaper
columns with dull verbiage, kept this intru-
sive fact in mind. Through our streets
parade nightly bands of rescued sinners who,
with music and song, proclaim their emanci-
pation from the bondage of drink. Behind
mighty brass instruments erratically blown
by long-winded penitents they march, bear-
ing the glad tidings. But the (.pinion is
becoming pretty general that, however ob-
jectionable they might have been when in
liquor, it only required their return to
sobriety to show what a fertile nuisance they
might become.
• * •
Let us leave these Lead Seas of Eastern
humanity—leave them to their sobriety and
their barbarism—and turn westwards. From
the time the wandering Aryans left their
Central-Asian fastnesses how many of those
whose names tradition and history have
thought it worth while to preserve could
honestly say they had never been drunk in
their lives? Even the Sacred Record assures
us that one of the first things done by Noah
—to whose prudence and industry, by the
way, mankind is so much beholden—was to
make merry with wine. We are told, too,
how dangerous it is to point unfeeling
mockery—in homelier language, to poke fun
—at an elderly person who had over-esti-
mated his carrying capacity. But for the
reprehensible levity of Ham on the occasion
to which reference is made, it is extremely
doubtful whether the question of negro
slavery would ever have arisen. Indeed, it
is a fairly legitimate assumption that, if the
foolish young man had only bridled his
tongue when his father was suffering a re-
covery, the Patriarch’s maledictions might
have been directed into other channels, and
the dark continent might be to-day the home
of a high civilisation. It should be remem-
bered also that it was water, not wine, which
was so nearly successful in reducing our
planet to the lifeless condition of its satellite
the moon. It would be as well if these sug-
gestive facts were borne in mind by people
who pride themselves on their aversion to
intoxicants and point the finger of scorn at
those whose tastes lie in an opposite direction.
* * *
Not to dwell too long on ancient times
and strange lands, let us come to times
nearer our own and to nations with which
we claim kin. Take the United Kingdom
and the United States of America, for in-
stance, and consider what has been done for
them and for the world by men who were,
unfortunately, not once, but many times,
tipsy in their lives ; what by those who, like
the New South Wales speakers alluded to,
never saw two chairmen at a civic revel when
a moment’s calm reflection would have been
sufficient to convince them there was but
one. Sweep from the shelves of a great
English library the works of those whose
pulses never beat responsive to the sparkle
of the glasses on the board. Then step on a
public platform and tell an audience of
abstainers how much English literature
worth the reading is left. From Father
Chaucer down through the long line of in-
tellectual giants who have made the Anglo-
Saxon tongue what we find it to-day, and
placed British letters in a position second to
none, where will the eye rest on one first-
class name whose former or present owner
could truly say, “ 1 have never been drunk
in my life ” ? None of the Elizabethan
galaxy could say so and hope to be believed.
Certainly not Shakespeare —as certainly
not rare Ben Jonson. Run down the list
to Anne’s Augustan age, then to the lines of
Johnson, Burke, and Goldsmith ; further
still, to Carlyle, Dickens, Tennyson, and
Ruskin. Having weeded out the works of
those who at least once in their lives were
uncertain as to the true position of their
bed-rooms, the task of removing the remain-
ing volumes will be found an easy one. Take
a peep into Thackeray. He, probably,
knew as much as most men of eighteenth-
century British literature. Hear him—him
who gave us Colonel Newcome and Harry
Esmonds ; who laid the lash with no sparing
hand across the shoulders of those self-
righteous dullards who were not as other
men :
“ His [Addison’s] letters are none the worse in
my eyes because some of them are written when
his honest hand was shaking a little in the morn-
ing after libations to purple Lyoeus over night.
• _ • • If he had not that little weakness for
wine—why, we could scarcely have found a fault
with him, and could not have liked him as we do.
. . . He owned, too, ladies, that he indulged in
that odious practice of smoking. ... A life
prosperous and beautiful—a calm death—and im-
mense fame and affection afterwards for his happy
and spotless name.”
Concerning Steele, we get :
“He sends for three friends, and they fall to
instantly, ‘drinking two bottles apiece, with
great benefit to themselves. ’ ”
Of Prior, and others :
“He loved, he drank, he sang. . . They
spent many hours of the four-and-twenty in clubs
and coffee-houses where they dined, drank and
smoked.”
Even little, delicate, crooked Pope, who gave
ua the “Iliad and the Dunciad,” describes
himself as sitting at the Addisonian court
“ until two o’clock in the morning over
punch and burgundy.”
* * *
It is thus the author of Vanity Fair deals
with the great ones of the past —with
Hogarth and Smollett, Fielding and
G-oldsmith. To him it was a matter of in-
differet.ee whether they sat long or short
over their wine. That was their business.
It was his, as it is ours, to admire the rich
stores of fancy and instruction they poured
out to profusely at the world’s feet. This is
as it should be. If we have to choose be-
tween the sinner who, on more than one
occasion, suffered from a pronounced hiccup,
but gave us “ The Vision of Mirza” or the
Vicar of Wakefield ” to make up for it,
and the saint who, although never drunk in
his life, never did anything to make the
world wiser or more contented —anyth ng to
leave it better than he found it —we say un-
hesitatingly, “ The sinner is the man for
us.” This is no plea in favour of intemper-
ance. We give in to none in our admiration
for the virtue of abstemiousness. The per-
son who can always be relied on to keep his
brain free from the fumes of wine is likely,
other things being equal, to be a more useful
member of society than one who habitually
steps beyond the bounds of moderation in
applying hot and rebellious liquors to the
blood. Especially is this the case when he
occupies a public or official position. But,
as the Saturday Review pointed out years
ago, intemperance is, after all, an offence not
so much against morality as against pru-
dence. There is a growing tendency among
people who are either total abstainers or
nearly so to demand respect for a negative
virtue, for a virtue, moreover, which may be
forced upon them by idiosyncracy or by fear.
To all such we would say firmly, “So you
have never been drunk in your lives ;
well, what have you done ? If your only
claim to reverence is that you have never
been under the influence of alcohol, we tell
you in confidence that we see little difference
between your claim and that of the person
who expects to be honoured for not eating
too much cucumber or mashed potatoes.”
* ♦ *
What have you done ? That is the ques-
tion which should be asked of all who ex-
pect deference for their self-abnegation
regarding liquor. If a poet can write any-
thing better than the “ Elegy in a Country
Churchyard” or the “ Burial of Sir John
Moore ” we bind ourselves to make no in-
quiry concerning the quality or quantity of
fluid he drinks—whether he goes to bed
punctually at 10 or stays up all night
carousing. When he approaches with a
verse similar to the Laureate’s Jubilee ode
or the last sparkle from Martin Tupper,
the fact of his having been sober when writ-
ing it possesses no interest for us. The
same with the artist, the actor, the states-
man, or the soldier. “ You are a novelist
or a dramatic author, we understood you
to say, and have never teen drunk in
your life ? That is very creditable ;
but where is your “David Copper field ”
or your “ School for Scandal ” ? In precisely
the same way the works of the other persons
named should be viewed. When an artist
produces a daub and whispers to the exa-
miners that he took the pledge 12 months
ago and kept it; when an actor, whose
breath is innocent of brandy, expects on that
account to win approval for his wooden
Hamlet, the obvious answer is that it is with
his work, not his habits, the public have any
concern. If Nelson had lost Trafalgar, or
suffered Yillbneuve to convoy the army of
Boulogne across the Channel, he might
plead in vain that he never wound his watch
the wrong way. So with the politician or
the civil official. When he comes, as it
were, into the market-place with the pitiful
cry “I have done nothing worthy of remem-
brance, but, at least, I was never drunk in
my life,” there should be no hesitation about
the response. Swift from a thousand throats
should be returned : “ Then make way for a
better man ; for one who will do something
to be gratefully remembered by, even if his
efforts to hold a midnight latch-key at the
precise angle are not always successful.”
The Roman Law Notwithstanding.
When, in these days of comparative happiness
for the insolvent debtor, men cast their thoughts
back upon his case as it would have been pre-
sented to them in the community which gave
Law to the modern world, they are wont to laugh
and wonder at the ease with which the ancients
satisfied themselves that they had secured a near
approach to the acme of wisdom. Yet many ages
elapsed before much in the way of an improve
ment on the system which allowed of bankrupts
being sold into slavery was effected ; and even in
modern days, when the way of the insolvent is
smoothed and bis paths made straight, the prin-
ciple of life long servitude is not entirely abolished.
In the remote past the bankrupt Latin was con-
verted by a swift process of law into a beast of
burden, and his debts, difficulties, responsibilities,
and his status as a man were gone together and
for ever There was no official assignee in those
days, no meetings of creditors, no resolution that
the insolvent-should be allowed his furniture ; he
was simply carted away and sold in the market-
place, and alorg with him his wife and his
daughters and all the rest of his belongings. This
process has been refined upon a good deal in the
course of centuries, but the charges have not been
entirely for the better. There are still debtors in
Australia who are in a state of perpetual servi-
tude, and whose style of bookkeeping makes it
impossible for them to seek the relief of the bank-
ruptcy laws. The majority of these are politicians
without visible means of support—men who live
by borrowing, begging, cadging, and otherwise
raising the wind—and who are perpetually, by
either direct or indirect means, utilising their
position to discharge old obligations and
contract new ones at the expense of the country ;
whose promissory- notes take the shape of
railway deviations and billets for the friends
of kind-hearted lenders, and who are unable to
wipe off liabilities which press too heavily by
means of the insolvency statutes, for the simple
reason that the courts have no official cognisance
of agreements by which a popular representative
undertakes to prostitute the privileges of his posi-
tion for value received. The politician thus cir-
cumstanced is a meaner and more degraded ani-
mal than the Latin slave of old, and yet no mea-
sure has ever been introduced to relieve him, or
his creditors, or the country which suffers at the,
hands of both parties and yet gains nothing from 1
either.
♦ * *
The bankrupt politician, or high civil servant
of he chance to be a man of moderate ability
holds a position which is almost unassailable. If
he borrows frequently, borrows largely, and bor-
rows everywhere, he receives the untiring support
of his creditors, whose quid pro quo, to be paid at
the expense of the country, can only be secured'
by his continuance in the position which he has
disgraced ; and when his seat or his billet grows
shaky, he secures it by contracting more debts,
and becoming more insolvent than before.
If, being a politician, he owes £20,000, judi-
ciously scattered over his electorate, his return
at a general election is tolerably certain ; if he
contrives further to owe money to a large pro-
portion of the members of the Legislature, his
debtors, who are his masters as well as hig
slaves, rally round him and exact his unflagging
support for schemes carried out at the ex-
pense of the public treasury. Nobody takes sc
much interest in a public man’s welfare as (he
person to whom he owes moneys beyond hig
means to pay, and if he has a hundred
or so of such friends—ever loud in singing
his praises and in proving that the salvation of
his electorate, or even of his country, depends
on his being placed in power—the voterg
are certain to accept the doctrine during the
critical period, however readily they may discover
their mistake after he has been hoisted into
Parliament.
* * *
A small amount of intellect and an incalculable ’
amountof debtarethe ingredients from whichmany
a political Messiah is manufactured in Australia.
The virtues of the politician who is insolvent
beyond all hope of recovery are trumpeted by hig-
creditors until he rises, step by step, to the’
highest positions to which the popular vote can
elevate a citizen, and then he repays the obliga-
tions of the past at compound Hebrew interest by
| all manner of illicit practices, until the nation has
wiped out his liabilities five times over. And for
this result the nation has only itself to blame. ■
Even the most active and proficient of mendicants
cannot owe money to a majority of the electors in 1
a large constituency, but the voters allow them-
selves to be led away by the plausible lies of a 1
judiciously-selected and widely-scattered band of
Shylocks, and at the polls they practically
declare that the irretrievable insolvent is the only '
man on earth who is fitted to represent them. At
the same time they know him to be a man without
any visible honest means of support—a man who
lives by borrowing, and who ostensibly pays 11
nothing in the £ on his liabilities, but in the
innocence of their hearts they imagine that a com-
paratively small circle of debtors are prepared to 1
maintain their idol in luxury and to labour for hie 1
support simply that he may give his serviese
freely to his beloved country. No doubt it seems
grossly unjust that a few persons should bear the
whole financial burden of supporting a politician
whom the electorate values so highly, butthe voters-
take it for granted that Moses and Aaron
and Levi do this, and they do not trouble
to ask the reason why. And even, when 1
the same Moses and his brethren always
happen to own the block of land through which 1
the party whereunto our friend, the insolvent
member, belongs, find it necessary to run a railway
at any cost, it is set down as a mere coincidence
and nothing more. And so he gpes on the
even tenor of his insolvent way, and for every
£20,000 which he borrows £lOO,OOO is paid somehow
or other. On the whole, therefore, we are in
dined to advocate that whenever a community
insists upon thrusting a bankrupt into office
as a member of Parliament his debts should be
paid out of the public Treasury as a condition pre-
cedent to his entering on the performance of his
functions.
* * •
This subject has been too much neglected in ’
Australia. The political bankrupt is an indigen-
ous product of these colonies.. He is as great a
pest as the rabbit, the brigalow, or the Bathurst
burr ; and is as hard to extirpate. In England he !
occurs only in sporadic cases, and dies quickly in
the uncongenial atmosphere he is compelled to 1
breathe. Here he stalks the land on a royaj i
road, and the genus multiply as rapidly as bacteria.
Systematic treatment of the creature is clearly ;
demanded, else mischief incalculable will be sure ‘
to result. Happily, Australasia is for the time
being in safety. With the present generation 1
of sticklers for honest Government at the head >
of affairs in every colony, the impecunioushangera- '
on to politics as a profession are not likely to
succeed in doing the harm that is in them.
Still, those whom the gods love die young, and '
though the colonial politicians of to-day are only
one remove lower than the angels, the time must
come when they will pass away and leave the
country a prey to polit'cians the Alpha and
Omega of whose finance consists in borrowing
money from whoever will lend, and never repay-
ing it except by some mysterious process by which
the creditors get their own, and more than their
own, out of the pockets of the ratepayers. In
Queensland in 1866, when everybody was more
or less a busted man,” a member of the As-
sembly proposed to pass a bill declaring
everybody insolvent, and thus give the
whole colony a fresh start. The measure 1 ’
unfortunately, was permitted to drop, and thus a
great and noble experiment never came off. But
the scheme might be revived with advantage on a
new basis, A law might be passed simultaneously'
in all the Australasian Legislatures declaring all
politicians to be bankrupts, without the necessity
of undergoing a public examination, ana making
all their financial obligations, at one fell swoop,’
null and void. Then the creditor who touts for
votes to bring his influential debtor into the posi


i; ( T 1 where lie can do him most good would take a
b.ik feat, knowirg, as he would, that his success
v ould remove all possible chance of payment, and
no tne would lend money to politicians any more.
Such a step as this would certainly do something
to cleanse the Augean stable of Australian politics,
ard it would cause future railways to take a
shaighter track, and lead to a serious diminution
in the number of valuable blocks which the
Government feels itself called upon to resume re-
gardless of cost. With this end in view, what
means would not be justifiable ?
The Sheep-Shearing Machine.
As all people know, a certain Mr. Wolseley has
invented a machine for shearing sheep, and we
think that the effects of this invention will be
sufficiently startling to call for a notice. Not
that the machine will dispense with any labour,
for trials have shown that with it as at
present developed a sheep cannot be shorn any
faster than by a shearer with a pair of shears ; but
the great difference is tl at a shearer is a skilled
workman, while any station-hand or knockabout,
even a “jimmygrunt” (as immigrants are face-
tiously termed in the bush), can use the machine.
The result, of course, will be to make station-
holders practically indejendent of the skilled
shearer ; and instead of paying £1 per hundred lor
shearir g, they will be able to take on a miscel-
laneous collection of nondescripts and get the
shearing done for (say) 12?. 6d. per hundred. Of
course, this will be a grand thirg for everybody
but the shearer. We propose to consider the
matter from the shearers’ point of view.
* * •
For, be it remembered, the shearer of the pre-
sent day is not the shearer of the old times; then
the shearers were a sort of floating population,
comingfrom Heaven knows where, and disappear-
ing as mysteriously as they came ; very often
they stole horses and took them with them ; they
were nearly always more or lees “ wanted ” by the
police ; on Sundays ihey held all sorts of unhal-
owed sports—horse-racing, dog fighting, jumping
coinpetilion?, and whatnot the ringer of the
shed was so great a man that a chain road wasn t
wide enough for him to walk on; and generally
they ended up the work by a howling spree, when
they knocked down the greater part of their
money. Now-a-days the shearers at nearly all the
sheds in the settled districts are small farmers—
men with wives end families, who work hard and
save as much money as possible, never dreaming
of wasting any in the method of their predecessors;
now-a days, on Sunday, there is a regular exodus
from the shed, each man soberly riding off to his
friends, or, it may ba, his home ; no horse-raoir g,
no dog-fighting, no flashness, no “ringer,” no
nothing. And the yearly earnings from shearing
are a very important item to these men ; they are
struggling on to make a living at farming, trying
to compete with other colonies where the soil is
richer and conditions more favourable ; they look
to the shearing money to give them a lift through
many a tight place ; and now comes this machine
to knock dow n their receipts.
* *
It is a curious thing that, concurrently with the
introduction of this machine, a Shearers’ Union
was formed, the object being to keep prices up to
a pound a hundred. It is, of course, a fact that
nearly all over the colony shearers were scarce
this past season —notably out in the Liverpool
Plains and Gwydir districts ; but this was simply
because, owing to the centralisation of population
-and the cheaper system of pastoral management
by paddocking, there is not sufficient population
in the bush to furnish skilled shearers for the
enormous number of sheep now carried in the
colony. The old “floating” shearer has dis-
appeared, and, Jack Robertson’s Act notwith-
standing, the small settlers are not sufficiently
numerous to fill ail the sheds at once with skilled
shearers. But the scarcity of shearers made no
increase in price ; the run-holders could wait, -and
they knew that the shearers must take the wages
they offered ; consequently nearly everywhere an
attempt was made to get the price down
to 17s. (id. a hundred. Strikes were common,
and in general the men got the best of it, and got
their pound a hundred as of old but now that
vhe machine is in the field we are very
‘much afraid the shearers won’t have a
show. It will be: “ Take 17s. ,6d., aye, or
1155., or else we will put the rouseabouts, the
‘Chinamen, boundary-riders, and what not on to
shear with Wolseley s machine. This will only
-be the beginning of the affair. We can easily sec
that in time sheep will be shorn by machine at a
-coat of, say, 10?. per hundred. Hundreds of
skilled men will lose a very large proportion o,f
’their yearly income ; an important industry will
altogether disappear .; squatting will employ less
men than ever, and will be one step further
■on the road to the inevitable time when a .50,000
station will he run with no other labour than one
’junior clerk representing the bank which repre-
sents the absentee English syndicate that owns
t tTe run ; and the farmers and small sett’ers, of
which class the shearers of the present day con-
sst, will be left to fight the bitter battle with im-
'ported wheat, imported pressed hay, pumpkins,
<potatoes, &”., without having the very much-
-1 needed assistance of the shearing money.
* * •
Of course we do not propose to argue that the
machine is therefore an undesirable thing ; every
invention which saves labour is, or should be,
•desirable. But there can be no doubt that it will
have a very serieus effect upon a large part of our
up country population. And we venture to pre-
-dict that the effect will be, that the farmers, set-
tler?, and so on, will go en masse for a protective
duty on all articles which they produce ; and, un-
does The Bulletin mistakes the signs of the times,
They wid assuredly get it.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Close Quarters.
Nearly everybody has heard the yarn of the cup
of tea and the crusty old hypochondriac, and if he
has not he ought to have. It was at some church
bazaar for the spread of the gospel amongst the
heathen, or the spread of an altar-cloth, or some-
thing, and a female seraph with lovely black eyes,
and coral lips, and tresses as black as the brow of
midnight, and a yellow satin bow in her hair, and
pearly teeth, and a full—a very full —bust, and a
well-modelled figure, and very plump arms, and a
black satin dress, and a cloth-of-gold rose in her
breast, and an aureole all over he-, and- and —a
variety of other things equally fascinating, took a
hand. But the old warrior who asked for a cup of
tea didn’t seem to worry about her charms. Instead
of making a tender observation about the weather
he simply said, “How much?” She smiled a
smile a hundred per cent, above par, but it didn’t
fetch him, and so she was driven back on the
brutal truth, “ One shilling!” But not willing to
surrender without a struggle she raised the cup to
her lips and imprinted upon its rim a delicate and
almost impalpable kiss, and then added “ It’s a
guinea now ! ” The old crust had planked his
shilling. He silently placed a sovere’ga beside it,
and looking remorselessly into her dark, depthless
orbs, said shortly, “ Give me a clean cup.”
There is a whole decalogue of sanitation
in this. The old fellow, unless he made
a point of cultivating brusquery towards women,
must have been a perfect hierarch of valetudin-
arian trepidation. He would never have placed
himself in danger of hemal contagion, rot he
And this reminds us that the lover of the future
will never kiss his mistress on the lips. It is
horrifying to note the hungry fashion in which old
maids, breathing forth nothing but ph'hisis and
pneumonia, grab healthy children and slobb?r
them with their infected kisses, and sow maudlin
sentiment and wasting disease in a Judas salute.
The reckless manner in which people wipe on a
common towel, and smoke pipes, and handle im-
plements used by others, is simply appalling to
the physiolog st. Should people shake hands even ?
Note your astute medico and the tremulous eager-
ness of the nervous doctor who hurries to the wash-
basin and the carbolic soap. Note also the ch*ri
ness with which your fastidious uppercrust shakes
hands, and the selection he exercises ia reg.rd to
those he chooses to honour with a manual recogni-
tion. Hotel beds do much to find occupants for
hospital stretchers. The sheets are seldom
changed for the visitor of the night, and one set
may serve a generation of chance callers with rut
washing. Public baths, too, wh'ch should be the
shrines of cleanliness, are too olten the propaga-
tors of skin diseases innumerable by the not-toc-
frequent cleansing of towels. Trams and'busses oc-
casion, by the exigencies of travel, noliltle mortal-
ity. The predisposedly phthisical subject, who might
meander through life cheerfully enough otherwise,
is brought into close connection with a breath
charged with the death-dealing germs, and the
rest follows simply enough. The other day we
were a late luncher at a Sydney fashionable res-
taurant. The neat-handed Phyllises of the
establishment were ivashing the napkins. This is
how the operation was performed. A pile of dirty
mouth-wipers were collected from the various
tables. They were simply with water
and folded and pressed, to be served out at the
following meal as bona-fide “clean” napkins and
assist in their small way ia the dissemina’ion of
cuticular and pneumonial diseases. Shaving
operations, the razor that has scraped many chins
and drawn and commingled many varieties of
blood, the lather of universal application, the hair-
brush which has abraded many scalps—we like
them not, there is unpleasantness in their acquaint-
ance and their touch is pregnant of much trouble.
Love your fellow man—but especially your fellow
Chinaman—at a safe distance. From the doctor’s
standpoint, Alexander Selkirk on bis desert
island had a better chance of a lengthened exis-
tence than the Prince of Wales.
The Heathen Chinee.
Strict Sabbatarians and remorseless Radicals find
themselves on the same platform with regard to
Chinese cabbage-growers. To Sabbatarians such
an act is a heinous breach of Divine law ; to pro-
gressive Radicals it is an important inroad upon a
universal right. The Sabbatarian's view of the
question has frequently been promulgated with
much of fervent snuffling, hut the Radical objec-
tion is hardly so well-known, although its force is
self-evident. It is based on the right that every
freeman has to prevent his labour from being en-
slaved and degraded by the labour of others.
Trades-unionism is one strong and, as far as it
goes, efficient defence of this right; Proleclim is
another projected aid in the same cause. But the
Sunday-slaving Celestial undermines both these
defence’. Being within our territory, no fiscal
ban can harm him ,; being outside the influence of
any trade-union he is free to depreciate the
lab mr of all ethers of jus trade. Unable
to comprehend the nobility of Labour, utterly care-
less of the independence appurtenant to citizenship
and regardless of the rules and customs of this the
land of his temporary sojourn, he seeks by U
hours’ work on each of the days of the week
indifferently to undo the work which the mis-
eioners of freedom with so much toil have wrought.
The Mongolian’s Sunday labour is in its effect
identical with bis lengthened slavery on other
days of the week. Ic forces these who would
.compete’with hire to work longer hours and to
work on Sunday, or else lose their place in the
ranks of competition. Herein we see the wisdom
and real intent of that much abused statute 29
Car. 11, c 3, which forbade an artificer or labourer
to work “at his ordinary calling” on Sunday,
This act was never ipeant to enforce what is com-
rqpnly known as a “strict observance of the
Lord’s Day,” The clergy then were the foremost
in promoting sports and pastimes on Sunday after-
noons ; and it was only intended that men should
be stopped from degrading their fellow-labourers
by working at their “ordinary callings” on the
day then assigned for recreation and amusement.
If one man had chosen to work on seven days in
the week, his fellow-tradesmen would have had to
do likewise; if one master had ordered his ap-
prentices to work on Sundays other apprentices
would have had to surrender to a like command.
Tfiis measure was passed in high Tory times, but
it nevertheless has a fine Radical flavour in its
composition. Whether its re-enactment in
modernised form—for it is now practically obso-
lete—would be sufficient for the present emergency
is a doubtful question. But even if it could be
made effective in preventing the Sunday labour of
the heathen Chinee, the main feature of the diffi-
culty would be left untouched. There would be
nothing then to prevent these spiritless and de-
based aliens from putting in an extra hour every
other day of the week to make up for the en-
forced cessation from work on Sunday. By that
means he could degrade our own labour just as
effectively as at present. There are only two
effectual remedies for ih? difficulty. Ei‘ho.' iff re
must bo an annual and heavy poll-tax levied on
every Mongolian who defiles the country with his
presence, and degrades it with his slavery, or else
the cure for the evil must be wrought by an adop-
tion of that oft quoted and emphatic dictum—
“ The Chinese Must Go 1”
♦
“ Liquid Fire and Distilled Damna-
tion.”
Thus calmly and ctmprehensively a Sydney
Wesleyan parson described the alcoholic and
spirituous liquors which local hotelkeepers retail.
That fervent apo-tle of piety did not speak at
peradventuie when he uttered those words. He
knew what he was talking about, and framed his
homily in accordance with that knowledge. And
in multitudinous pages the New South Wales
Liquor Commission confirm this description of
Sidney alcoholic refreshment. The report is
eloquent concerning fusel oil, white spirit, and
kindred ingredients which masquerade locally as
brandy, whisky, and gin. Such information does
not come as a revelation. Everyone knew that
the liquor commonly retailed can vie with
“ Rough on Rats” as a poison, and is responsible
f,r more miden deaths and lunacies than any
other sixteen causes. But the report fails to ex-
plain why ic is that the comprehensive enact-
ments providing special and sufficient punishment
for the vendors of poisonous grog are not invoked
to stop the system of manslaughter which now
so largely prevails. When the Act was brand new,
“specimens” of public house grog were obtained,
analysed, and found to contain nothing of adul-
teration except water. The seal of official ap-
proval was placed upon threepenny drink?, and
the Act seems never to have been put in force
since that time. The laws against adulteratiofi
are in marvellous contrast with tte adulteration
that universally prevails. To stop the prevalent
vile practices nolhiog more is needed than the
use of legal instruments now ru-ting for want of
employment. No new legislation in this matter
is required; better administration is all that is
necessary But so mild a cure is necessarily in-
sufficient to satisfy a committee of teetotallers.
Pxohibilion is their pet remedy, regulation a
moderate mean?, and therefore to be ab-
horred. As they go to extremes in their habits
of life and reject a moderate use in favour of an
immoderate abstinence, so in political matters
they aim at a tyrannous prohibition when a
moderate restric ion is all that is safe or even
possible. Administer existing laws properly, and
the public-houses of Sydney, or most of them,
would cease to be step ladders to the Necropolis ;
legislate some more, and the culprits would escape
by reason of tho very vindictiveness of intolerant
teetotallers. One other moral is clearly estab-
lished by ihe piesent and known villainy of New
South Wales grog—that increased duly on spirits
has one and only one effect: it makes the commo-
dity vile in proportion to the tariff impost. Bottled
spirits of good quality cannot be retailed at a
profit under present conditions, therefore by the
very necessities of their state hotel-keepers are
forced to sell “liquid fire” in order to make a
living. The increased duty has given a wonderful
impetus to illicit distillation, and has made most
hotel-keepers he :ome liquor-doctors, and although
it has decreased the consumption of bona-fide
spirits, ic has largely added to the evils
resulting from the trade. Under a Freetrade
regime it is necessary to burden articles
of ordinary consumption with ruinous taxes
revenue must be had from the Custom House, so
liquor is leaded with an ur justifiable and disas-
trous proportion of the taxation onus. In the
quality of the poison retailed at public bars we see
sufficient evidence of the inevitable results of a
Freetrade-cum-Rechabite mode of administering
public affairs
The Maniac’s O ime and the Maniac
Press.
Wadham Wyndham has found a rival in August
Wells, and the Sydney press is hard at work pre-
paring the minds of a few more lunatics for the
commission of deeds of blood by the publication
of hideous details, which are given with unctuous
minuteness, albeit deprecating comment. The
affair is described as a “ crime,” although it
was admittedly the work of an irresponsible per-
son—a lunatic. The presumedly moral D.T. says
of it that:
“It would be almost impossible to conceive of a more
horrible tragedy than ihat which was perpetrated on Thurs-
day morning near Liverpool.”
Then follows a brutally sensational account, in
which frequently occur such phrases as, “ of a most
revolting character,” “ an additional glamour of
terrible interest in the dreadful mystery surround-
ing the whole affair,” “ the ill-fated victim and
her murderer,” “ horror-stricken eye-witness,”
“screams” of the woman who “quailed” with
‘ 1 the dews of deathly terror on her face,” under the
“frenzied eyes and murderous grip” &c , See.
The paper in question, while granting that no one
saw or heard any of these various revolting de-
tails, conjures up the whole scene, and advances
the proposition, “ we must picture,” &o. Where
is the need? What good can it possibly do ? Tho
D.T. would urge a flogging as the meed of the
delirious patient who, in a paroxysm of fever, ex-
hibited his nude body to the public gaze.
Such conduct would be about as logical
as .all Ibis word-lury wasted on an irre-
sponsible unfortunate who had committed
an act of destruction in his frenzy.
All this is about a poor man who killed his mother
during a temporary fit of madness. Has the
glittering intelligence that penned this ever read
that pathetic account of Mary Lamb's seizure, in
which she killed her mother witn a table knife ?
Would not any lover of her brother’s or her own
beautiful nature feel disgusted! and insulted at
language such as the above being employed to de-
scribe her misfortune ? Yet August Wells is no
more a criminal than Mary Lamb. Crime pre-
supposes reason. Unconscious criminality is ab-
surd. Deprive man of the responsibility attaching
to any act, and the element of crime disap-
pears. Crime is punishable, yet no one would ad-
vocate the punishment of deeds of violence by
lunatics—except judges. Ihe same issue in
which the D.T. works up the horrors of charnel-
dom, contains the following from a leader on the
1 Ball! Fund Agitation” concerning the with-
holding the money from the widows, and the taking
of criminal proceedings against the company :
11 Libellous' and unmanly attack?, unsupported by any
direct evidence, and tending to emoitter still further the
already bitter enough c ass hatreds which spring out of the
perpetual struggle between capital and labour, are best left
uncirculated bn newspapers. A quarrel over one-of the
fibeso oatbutsts of public generosity the first century of
Australian history can boast ii one of the most unseemly
quarrels that human ingenuity could have devised. Fight-
ing grounds between contending classes and interests in the
community should he chosen with some regard - to the
decencies of civilisation. Nobody can be blind to the fact
that concern for the Bulli widows and orphans was not the
mainspring of the persistent fierceness with which the recent
agitation was conducted. Nearly all the platform artillery
was directed against the Bulli Company, and the whole
course of the proceedings tended towards the extensive and
expensive litigation which was and is still threatened.”
This paper, which can grow eloquent and
ghoulishly minute over a “ Maniac’s Crime,” i-i
mu.ishly stubborn aOout “ Capital’s Cr-uv-.” The
death of an old woman is made the subject of the
exercise of a morbid imagination, but the deaths
of 80 men sacrificed to the Moloch of greed have
to be referred to with “ some regard to the
decencies of civilisation,” and, unlike “ Maniac’s
Crimes,” are “ best left uncirculated by news-
papers. ’
+
Infanticide and the Law of Pr ia o-
geniture.
During the enquiry conducted by the Legislative
Council committee in re the practice of surgery
and medicine in New South Wales, it was elicited,
amongst other things, that certain places of con-
venience existed in Sydney in which ladies, whose
reputation was trembling on the brims of “re-
spectability,” were accustomed to retire for a
period—“on a visit to some friends in the coun-
try ” —until their trouble had passed. In one
place there were “five ladies,” and the witness said
in reference to this harbour of refuge :
“They board them in the place. They pay £3 33. a week,
and so much for attendance. He (the proprietor) said that
out of the live two were to be confined, and three were not,
meaning that they were to be operated upon.”
Of the five women mentioned above, two
were to be permitted to add somewhat to
the world’s aggregate of mortality; in their
case what becomes of the children ? In a
recent issue of a Victorian paper the increasing
number of cases of infantic de and unsuccessful
attempts at infanticide in Sydney and its suburbs
was thus commented upon ;
‘‘ There are now known to the police certain circumstancei-
which point to these infanticides and exposures of children
bemg the hideous work of persons connected with one of
those institutions which are known to exist in cur midst, and
are maintained for the purpose of permitting mothers who
are ashamed of their condition to conceal from friends, rela-
tives, and the world at large the fact that they have borne
children. In other words, the babies who have been found
devd in the suburban streets of Sydney, or have been
rescued from the deaths intended for them in those streets,
within the last few days, have been born in some private
establishment where mothers endeavour—and often success-
fully—to conceal their shame, and have been strangled, or
exposed, as a part of the ordinary business of the establish-
ment."
It will be remembered that one evening, lately,
about 7 o’clock, a female baby about three montl a
old was picked up in a street in Forest Lodge,
Sydney. It was alive and well, the constable
hiving found it shortly after its abandonment; no
attempt having been made to strangle it, as in
some previous case?. When the nurses at the
institution, to which the baby had been taken,
began to undress it, it was discovered that the
chi d was packed up in exactly the same fashion
as other children recently discovered alive and
taken to the same asylum. The linen and other
materials used were off the same piece The
body-cloths, or bands, had evidently been folded
around the child by a hand accustome I to the bush
ness, and there were many other indications that
the baby had come from a private wholesale ac-
couchement establishment. Now, as long as the
present social condition of things exists, so long
will unmarried women endeavour to conceal the
evidences of maternity. The only step towards a
reformation would be by abolishing the stigma of
illegitimacy, which has been erected mainly for
giving effect to the alleged principle of primogeni-
ture, which in turn can have no raison d’etre with
the nullification of the doctrine of private proj
perty in land. The concealrpent of maternity by
“ unmarried mothers” is a thing which cannot by
its very nature be successful y combated by State
legislation of a direct character, and it is very un-
desirable that it should. Legalise birth, by what-
soever manner brought about, and make the act of
cohabitation constitute also the rite of wedlock,
and illegitimacy ceases to exist, and with it ceases
at once all motives of concealment, infanticide,
desertion, or exposure. And if the doctrine of
Henry George, the great American land-re-
former, pushed to their ultima f e application, can
loosen the marriage bond in its connection with
heirship and primogeniture, a boon would be con-
ferred upon fetich-ridden humanity, the blessings
of which it is now impossible even to faintly
adumbrate.
♦
Freetrade versus Free Production
The Victorian Freetrade organ has at last to fall
back on the allegation that Protection cannot
benefit all classes of the community equally. This,
being about the last cartridge in its pouch, it
looks upon as something sure to kill. We now
intend to stand in front of the bullet and catch it
just to show how feeble it is. In the first in-
stance, supposing that Protection does not benefit
all alike, is that any reason why it should net be
allowed to benefit any ? In the second place, if it
does not serve all equally it comes much more
closely to .t than the alleged Freetrade. lathe
third place, “ Freetrade” is not free trade at all,
but only free importation. Fourthly, trade is
only a secondary affair, any way, but there could
he none without production, consequently free
production is the real requisite for placing all
articles within the means of every consumer.
“ Freetrade ” is on a par with the prac-
tice of giving niggers a glass bead and a
yard of shoddy in exchange for an ounce of
gold. It dees not maintain the natural proportion
of exchange a t all. A shilling to the Englishman
is line the glass dead, worth considerably more to
the receiver than to the party who gives it, and
represents as much value as eighteenpence here.
Therefore, the importer is paying the foreign pro-
ducer in money (or its equivalent) which has a
higher value for that purpose than for what he
received it for. In other words, he is paying
away what he never got, and, as the difference in
value has to be made up from somewhere, it
eventually comes out of the pockets of those who
manufacture the like goods here, even although
they were to pay lower wages in proporti >n to
the purchasing power of the coin, than the foreign
maker. And, of course, their employe i and the
community suffer again through them. The ques-
tion may very well arise : Has any man the right
to coolly acquire in this way a greater value than
that of the commercial equivalent cf his goods or
services ? It is mere speculation of the worst
type. We may not be able to avoid it, but
in that case there is surely nothing on which taxa-
tion could be more faiily levied. A man receives
a shilling to cover cost and profit, and without
any improvement, labour, or skill on his part, but
simply owing to the differential values of cur-
rency, he is able to exchange it for eighteenpence
worth of goods by purchasing abroad, whereas in
any internal pursuit he could only repeat his first
investment with an increase in proportion to what
he might be able to put in out of his first profit,
which is really his salary. Is this “equal inci-
dence on all ” ? No, it simply means that a privi-
leged gang are to reduce the bona-fide earnings of
' genuine workers atd traders connected with them
by simply juggling money from one band to the
other. Ic tends to make every country dependent
upon some other for what it could produce itself in
ordinary course, by extinguish ng the inhabitants
for the benefit of the currency swindlers ; makes
the wealth of the entire world a monopoly in the
hands of two or three thousand value brokers
yclept rr eroh tnts ; raises ihd Ofsc of ever>Lniug
lhat is not tampered wi.h (thanks to Hue expense


of supporting these gentry) ; and, whilst enrich-
ing them, impoverishes and surely, if slowly, en-
slaves all the rest of the world. It value were an
absolute quantity all the world over, matters
might he otherwise *, in fact the cost of transport
could only be met by undeniable natural superior
facilities for production ; but as long as money
will go further or less far in one place than in
another, and this trafficking in other people’s
wealth is possible, so long, in some form or
another, there must he Protection!
+
The Charnel House Scheme.
PAkkks is making good progress with his Charnel
House project. He has now appointed a com-
mittee to examine the competitive designs and
award the prizes. This body is composed, with
perhaps only one exception, of gentlemen whose
knowledge of architecture cannot hi much
superior to that of the Botany Bay players with
bricks and mortar at whom Svdmey Smith poked
unlimited fun. There are two architects on the
board, one of whom is chiefly notorious for having
designed the unspeakably hideous Pitt-street
facjrde of the General Post Office, and the other
(Mr. G, A. Mansfield) seems to be the single one
with undeniable qualifications for the task that has
to be performed. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G.asonthe
list, presumably because he is a K.C.M G. Bishop
Barry is there, for the reason, according to the
papers, that his father was an architect. Mr.
Edward Knox, M.L C., enjoys a seat on the
board, no doubt in consequence of his having
at one time lived opposite to a success-
ful speculative builder. Mr, A. Oliver, the
Parliamentary draftsman, was evidently ap-
pointed under the b’lief that there is some dis-
tant relationship between drawing an Act of
Parliament and drawing an architectural design—
or can it have bee . because Parkbs had reasons
for believing that the writer of the letters of
“ Hexoniensis ” was not unknown to Ho liver 1
Why Mr. J. S. Mitchell was put on the board is
a question that passeth human understanding.
“In making these appointments,” we are
authoritatively informed, “ the Government have
been careful not to include any gentlemen
who take an active part in political life.” There
seems to have been almost as much care
taken not to include any gentlemen intimately
acquainted with the subject in hand. However,
the public are not in the least exercised. The
whole scheme is regarded with profound indif-
ference. If Parkbs succeeds in getting his State
House at the Botany Swamp, the prevalent feel-
ing is that the uglier the building the better.
Architecture in a remote terra incognita is too
plainly an absurdity to induce more than a feeling
of intense pity for its projector. Whether he gets
a decent edifice or a preposterous pile of stone is a
matter touching which nobody seems to entertain
the slightest interest.
♦
Honest Secretary Sutherland has just declared
that the N.S.W. railways are “dangerously
undermanned,” So great, in fact, is the danger
that he has been “ compelled to put on one-third
more men than he found when he took oflioe, and
more men are still required.” Honest John would
seem to he fully aware of the fact that two late
Ministers for Works got themselves quite disliked
by weeding out the list of railway officials, and
one of them (Mr. Wright) lost his seat in Parlia-
ment simply because his constituency of Redfern
was swarmed with voters on the railway. A cor-
respondent, commenting on this, gays that at a cer-
tain railway station, where only two passenger
trains are timed to stop during the 24 hours, he
recently found four railway officials discussing the
weather in the ticket office, while three others
kicked cigar stumps off the pathway, and
another, was tossing a fruit pedlar for oranges.
Honest John evidently knows on which side his
bread is buttered.
+.
Ministers of the Gospel who have hearts ever
responsive to the woes of lunacy-blasted humanity
are hereby implored to build a new copper-fas-
tened, double-sewn, yellow-centred, bevel-edged
supplication, to be used on behalf of the antique-
stamp imbeciles who haunt this fair land. Glory-
ing in their mental shame, they—these philatelic
brain-bankrupts—advertise their affliction in the
columns of every daily, imploring a calmly indif-
ferent universe to send them along used stamps of
the year when So and so, M L.A., got his ticket-
of-leave from an indulgent gaoler. Wildly they
offer untold gold and the benison of a zani to all
and sundry who can supply genuine “36’s” and
“N.S.W. 38's.” They are philatelic grave-ghouls,
they unearth the skeletons of stamps that did
duty before Parkes first advocated Protection,
and hawk the poor remains around as if they
didn’t know that for all practical purposes a new
twopenny of this present year is worth more than
fifty times as much as these duffer relics of the
leg-ironed past. A philatelist is not so dangerous
as a loony who murders half a township, nor so
peculiar as a spendthrift Civil Servant who
fritters away half his pay on tradesmen’s hills, but
as a caricature of all that is noble and good in
modern humanity he is infinitely more pitiful,
and more to ha despised. And the worst of it is
you can’t kill him on sight, or clew him up with a
ca sa. That’s where modern civilisation fails.
Roiling oil as a corrective would never have been
abolished it the advent of the philatelist had been
certainly foreseen.
♦
Attorney-General Wise told the New South
Wales Freetrade Association the other day that in
the last Parliament there were between 70 and 80
Protectionist members and in the present Parlia-
ment there are barely 40, This statement is, if
that were possible, a trifle more mendacious than
the assertions of some Freetrade champions. The
fact is that in the last Parliament there were not
30 declared Protectionists. Among that number
were Abigail, Sutherland, Roberts, Clarke,
and Garrett, the ingenious Wise’s own cl-
leagues, whose conversion to Freetrade was
synchronous with their being appointed Ministers
at £ISOO a year!
Mr. Schby, champion turn-coat of the New South
Wales Assembly, the genius who changed from a
Protectionist to a Freetrader in 95 seconds less
than five minutes, has shown, by his effort to
make eight hours the legal day’s labour, that he
knows less about practical legislation than John
Haynes knows about the higher culture. The
eight-hour system hasn’t an outside show of being
maintained while goods produced under a sixteen-
hour system are pitched by the shipload on to
N, S. W. wharves. For a Freetrader to advocate short
hours or high wages would he ludicrous if it were
not so self-evident a dodge to catch the votes of
the men whom Freetrade has deprived of the
power to obtain high wages. For Mr. Schey’s
benefit - we would relate what happened in Kamt-
schatka. There was an unpopular and not
remarkably able barrister, whose practice was
not very voluminous. But as the result of
some inexplicable error he became advanced
to the position of Q.C., and consequently was
enabled to charge double fees for his work. This
would have been a gladsome thing had it not
been that suitors had never rushed much to pay
him single fees, and so it happened that the
power to charge the double rate took away all his
income, for no one brought him any briefs. So
with the N S.W. workmen under Freetrade. The
calculating Schey wants to give them the power
of limiting their day’s work to eight hours. But
if they exert their power no one will employ them,
for Asiatics, Indians, and European paupers will
do the work at half-price, and the demand for
eight hour labourers will be smaller than
Ministerial scruples. Any man who advocates
Freetrade and eight hours must be either a
designing trickster, a political fraud, or a self-
convicted fool. Which large but Gospel-true
statement we commend to the attention of Mr.
Sohey— and his deluded constituents.
If it is wrong for a politician to frank a letter, so
also is the principle of payment of members for
Parliamentary services wrong. There should be
no private cost to a man in the discharge of public
bus'nsss. I j cannot be conducted too cheaply to
the individual member. Why should a man who
gives his time to his country’s business be ex-
pected to pay taxation also in excess of that paid
by any other citizen ? No member of Parliament
should be given any facility to conduct private
business at the public expense. But this principle
cuts both ways. If it is wrong for the politician
to fatten on the public purse, so also is it wrong
for the State to get its business done at private
expense. Mr; O’Mara was quite right when he
said in the House that he considered it shear
affectation of virtue to say that one should not
post commuaioations on public business at the
expense of ths public. If they were to refuse this
penny stamp, then let every member place his
railway-pass upon the table of the House. This is
logical, anyway. Those members who voted for
payment of members and against free postage are
simple idiots.
The effete bard, Pabkes, has struck another
moral reef in the mine of his intelligence. A few
weeks ago his Government resolved that a long-
suffering country wanted a certain little bit of
land at Circular Quay, Sydney, so badly that,
though a few months previously it had
been worth only from £4OOO to £7OOO,
and was owned entirely by Government sup-
porters, they were called upon to pay £29,000 to
secure it. Thereupon Melville moved that a
committee consisting of an equal number of mem-
bers from either side of the House should be
appointed to inquire how it was that the country
had wanted this scrap of soil to such an awful ex-
tent, and Pabkes assented to the proposed en-
quiry, but demanded that the committee should be
chosen by ballot. The driven bullocks of his ma-
jority voted to order, as usual, and as a result the
court which is to decide whether or not the
Pabkes Cabinet has been guilty of a disgraceful
trick is composed of seven or eight of Pjbkbs’
own followers, and two or three only of his op-
ponents. Among the majority is the honest Habigle
who has thus to appear before himself and resolve,
according to the evidence, whether he and his
chief are as pure as the driven snow, or whether
they have been guilty of participating in an act
which, if brought home to them, would render
them unfit to associate with honest men;
and among Habigle’s colleagues is at least one
who is openly alleged iu Parliament to have had
a direct interest in the land which the country
did not urgently want, but which has nevertheless
been bought by Government at something like five
times its recent market value. And yet in the
face of this, Pabkes asserts that the transaction
is above question, and that even if investigated
by his bitterest enemies, nothing to his discredit
can be elicited. Under these circumstances, it is
difficult to understand why he took such extra-
ordinary precautions to be judged only by his
friends. Perhaps it is only one of the old man’s
peculiarities, but in the case of any one a shade
less above suspicion it would be set down as a
cowardly attempt to smother an inquiry which, if
fairly carried out, would blast his character as a
politician for ever and for ever.
♦
The Sydney Eight Hours’ Demonstration on Mon-
day last, considered in the light of a spectacle,
was a severe frosc, and admirably illustrated in a
practical fashion the fiscal policy under which the
colony of New South Wales groans, The varie
gated vans were simply perambulatory ads. for a
few firms; the trades were miserably represented
in many instances by only a dezm men struggling
after an acre of printed canvas—and the best turn-
out was presented by two bodies which particularly
attend a Freetrade regime, viz , the seamen and
the engineers, the latter being employed
for the greater part of their time in tinkering up
the boats that bring from Europe and the East
the pauper-labour products of the Chinese, the
Germans, and the French. Compared with simi-
lar demonstrations held in Melbourne every year,
the Eight Hours’ Sydney demonstration was a
shameful fiasco.
♦
The New South Wales Attorney-General has
admitted the uselessness of the regulations now
existing precluding the student at law from fol-
lowing any honest occupation for a period of 12
months prior to his final examination. The excuse
put forward in j ustifloation of the rule is that it
allows the student the opportunity of devoting
himself exclusively to preparation for the profes-
sion he intends to follow. The hollowness of this
pretence is, however, apparent from ihe fact that
the regulation includes no condition exacticg the
attendance of the student at ary occupation cal-
culated to strengthen him in a knowledge of the
law. For anything specified to the contrary, the
aspirant to the Bar may spend his 12 months
leaning over an entirely different bar, or
in any similar light amusement, provided
always that he follows no honest employment for
his livelihood, a means of passing his time to
which the Barristers’ Admission Board appear to
entertain an unconquerable objection. As the
object of those who framed such a rule was ob-
viously merely ti increase the difficulty of aspir-
ants to the profession of which they and others
now enjoy so disgraceful a monopoly, it could not
possibly matter to them how iha time of probation
was spent, as long as it was not employed in any
description of manly, independent toil. Mr.
Wise evidently recognises the barefaced indecency
of the rule as it now stands, and proposes to
amend it by exacting that the candidate
shall spend a certain number of days at the
courts, or pass his 12 months in the chambers of
some barrister. This proposal is a mere subterfuge
to allay the gale of popular indignation gathering
against the palisades of barristerial monopoly.
The proposal regarding attendance at the Courts
need hardly be treated seriously. It is simply an
aggravation of the stupidity of the original
offence. To force any man to sit in a stifling
court, listening to the ghastly pleasantries of
Judges, the bamboozling of witnesses, and, per-
haps, the forensic eloquence of Mr. Wise himself,
in a case in which he possessed no interest, pecu-
niary or otherwise, would be a cruelty more cal-
culated to make him a lunatic than a lawyer, A
student might sit in the courts for five years and
still advance not a single step in anything which
goes to make up the qualifications of a barrister.
The other suggestion Mr. Wise makes is at once a
block to the student and another addition to the
perquisites of the barrister. Any student desirous
of reading in a barrister’s chambers would have
to pay a heavy fee for the privilege, in addition
to the useless tax already exacted from him by the
necessity of living on his private means for 12
months. The delicate consideration thus exhibited
by the Attorney- General for the profession of which
he is, by a strange accident of fortune, the tempor-
ary leader, is quite edifying in its lawyer-like in-
genuity, But Mr Wise's proposals as remedial
measures are much too thin. As the rule now
stands there is no hollo n pretence about it. It
nakedly exhibits itself as it is—a piece of brutal, ob-
structive conservatism. It does not concern itself
as to how the student’s time is spent—the object
in view is to make him waste his time, and in this
respect the end sought for is accomplished most
successfully, In addition to this the present
system affords the embryo barrister admirable
facilities for forgetting all he has already learned,
and considering how much the existing Bar has for-
gotten, this looks like a device to prevent Mr.
Wise and his associates being outshone by their
newly admitted rivals. Further, the Attorney-
General admits the uselessness of examinations
as a gauge of a barrister’s capabilities, from
which we presume he recognises that he and his
brethren are not up to the mark. Yet he proposes
to amend the rule by compelling new students to
pay heavily for permission to acq iire ignorance for a
period of 12 months at the feet of one or other of the
men who gained admission on this utterly insuffi-
cient test, or, as an alternative, he would force
them to sit in court for a specified period, and
learn how little brains it takes to make a barrister I
Neither the existing regulation nor the proposed
amendment thereon will bear any sensible inter-
pretation. According to Mr. Wise's theory the
barrister of the future, as constructed by the rules
recently promulgated, is to be a creature almost
too pure and good for human nature’s dally food,
and he is to be brought to this elevation by 12
months' loafing in hotels or billiard-rooms, or else
by a similar period of association with the bar-
rister of the past, who never enjoyed his advan-
tages of enforced idleness, and, consequently,
never attained his pitch of perfection. The law
student at present is the only man, not a leper,
who is debarred from honest employment in New
South Wales, and it is now proposed that he
shall be made a gregarious loafer instead of a
solitary one. This is the sum and substance of
Mr. Wise’s proposed reform.
+
The Case of William Roy.
We are glad to report that William Roy, the dis-
abled soldier of Rorke’s Drift, has now been
removed, together with his wife, to a small cot-
tage which has been taken and furnished on his
behalf by Mr. C. J. Byrnes, Major of Parramatta,
who has kindly undertaken the task of managing
the fund laised among the readers of The Bulle-
tin. A number of little comforts have also been
supplied to Roy out of the fund in question, and
with the further assistance of Mrs. Roy’s small
earnicgs the unfortunate soldier has now a pro-
spect of ending his days in peace. Some further
donations to the fund are now thankfully acknow-
ledged :
Amount already acknowledged, £99 9s. 6d.; James
Maguire, 5s ; North Queensland, £2; W. H, Ford, 103. :
Peter Lynch, Wallandra Station, Lachlan—G. A. Church,
John Lipple, Mr. Yeal, Shearer and General Hands (Curra-
weena Station), £3 12s. ; Rorke's Drift, Uiundi, £l.
As predicted by The Bulletin alone,
Treasurer Burns, in his financial forecast, was
fully a million pounds out of his reckonirg !
More embezzlement at Tammany—we
mean Sydney—Town Hall. The fellow who is
alleged to have got the money is deal - as usual
The Evening News’ Parliamentary scribe
says ho went out four times during Ninian Mel-
ville’s speech the other night in the N.9.W.
Assembly.- Ninian, as a red-hot temperance man,
ought to see to this.
London Times virtuously roars for the ex-
clusion of the Marquis of Aileshury from the
House of Lords on account of His racehorses
running crooked. After all, Ailesbury's sin sinks
into insignificance beside those of some o her
uoble heroes of divorce-courts and rack-renting,
who sit in Parliament, and for whom ihe Times
has nothirg but blessings.
Last Tuesday’s Nooze gives a long and
particular account of Sir Henry Parkes’ financial
affairs, from which it appears that he denies, or
the Nooze denies on his behalf, the reports that
he is in debt to the amount of £52,000, and that
his colleagues rank prominently among his
creditors. According to this statement, Sir
Henry’s liabilities are much, less than the amount
stated, and are owing mainly on account of pro-
perties purchased ; his dealings with his col-
leagues are reported to consist chiefly of one or
two advances on mortgage ; and taking all things
into aceount, the Premier, it is alleged, is still
£12,000 or £15,000 to the good. Now that Premier
Parkes seems to have made his little financial
statement to the Press, we would strongly recom-
mend certain politicians who are we’l known
to be up a tree to go and do likewise. Open con-
fession is good for the soul.
The public will be glad to hear that
Favenc, the Australian transcontinentalist, and
one of the most enthusiastic and intelligent of
modern explorers, is engaged in the production of
a complete history of the exploration of Australia
from the first settlement in 1788 down to the pre-
sent time. The work will be enriched with
numerous facsimiles of letters, journals, and
charts relating to early explorations, and will pre-
sent a correct picture of the island-continent in
every serviceable point of view. Mr. Favenc’s
style of narrative and description is of
the highest order; and his large experi-
ence in the actual business of traversing
unknown regions, with all the hardships and
sufferings endured by pioneers, will put him in
sympathy with his subject and tend to make his
book pregnant with interest as well as with useful
information. Turner and Henderson, of Sydney, are
the publishers, and as the edition will he of limited
number, intending subscribers would do well to
notify their requirements to that firm at an early
date. The work will be embraced in a demy
octavo volume, handsomely gotten up, and the
price is fixed at a guinea.
CORRESPONDENCE
Argus : Shall bear your request in mind.
• R.B : Hardly suited.Justice’: Enquire for letter
at local P.O ‘S.’ (East Maitland): Too much about
man in one of your chunks of brain-foam. Couldn't you
do something more for lovely woman ? Will read, however
'• ‘ Litl eB to M ’: A-e g00d....‘W. E. Neile ’ (Barkus)!
Clad to receive local items, if not too local. ...‘EM’
(Kiardra); You are wrong. Why should not a politician
ave ah letters appertaining to public business carried at the
public expense?.... 1 Constant Reader (Hornsby); I Q the
district in which the debt was contracted. It doesu t matter
where you live. Unless you give notice cf intention to
defend, judgment will bs entered against you without the
matter coming before aP.M ‘Gaffney’ We are always
pleased to receive letters from you... John Lyon ’ (Yarra
Yarra) : We know of no book so comprehensive as the one
you want. The information is scattered over hundreds of
pamphlets, commission reports, blue-books, and records of
1 arhatnentary debates. Lady Hamilton's “ Secret History
cf the Court of England” will gite you a lot that you desire
to know— 1 E. W. Mas-n’: When last we heard of Alfred
Moul he had something to do with a music-shop in Bond-
London ‘ C.W.R.’; Next week, perhaps
tnl (1) Letter altogethcr to ° long. Without ass citing
that there are not many humbugs among “qualified” doc-
tors, we have no hesitation in saying that anyone who pro
fesses to diagnose your disease by clairvoyance is a
hu arbug. The only case within our own experience which
enables us to pass judgment on the person to whom you
specially allude was one in which a certain well-known gen-
tleman, whom the leading local surgeons agreed was suffer-
mg from cancer of .he liver, went to the clairvoyant, and was
to.d that the surgeons were wrong-that his disease was
inflammation of the stomach. The patient died, and a post-
mortem revealed a bad case of cancer. (2) How is it that the
spirit-photograph men-mediums. and so on-are so afraid of
r. vnaggs ? Is it not because Hr. Knaggs has made a study
of them, and thoroughly understands all their little games’
(3) We have met and seen a lot of Eglinton, who is a humbug
of the first water, and could not for an instant deceive the
surgeon you name (4) If a man has a well-defined organic
disease, all the herbalists, clairvoyants, and mesmeric
under Heaven can t cure him NeitherYu? 6
i om d{ r d*i/ el^' w®? t e raPM at ure, ) butwo pe?fen “ofSilica
r - Master of the Orangemen, anyhow ‘ E
Hoskins : Your place is among the minor (Australian)
poets, judging from the fact that you try to make “ eves "
rhyme_ with "sausages.;. .. 1 JR; (Maryborough. O 1 - All
.flam Pitz Jones (Molone) • We ' AU
why Magistrate Nesbitt wanted to pay was
that he knew that obtrusive street-preacher to be a well-
meaning fanatic, and sympathised with him When a man
up a pod billet in a bank because the Bible tells him to
sell all that he hath and give to the poor, and when he com=s
down to be a street-preacher without a cent through his
strict adherence to the same precept, he deserves a httle
sympathy in these days of cant.. .‘A Ten Srif
senber : Firstly, The Bulletin is onlv pifhtvffL
Secondly, Buffalo Bill is just now in London %hhdly wo
fpTc men Q of toaTviL ‘v' To^ ‘ Stra « 3 ' = Dutiful
“as p°a f id ha^ I™' 1 ™' nationaf debt tt I fefrs at
w? rat l of i 24 “‘ Uiou Pounds pe? annum . EMilfof-
When they have battered the image of Christ from off the
Sydney Cathedral reredos, they should sell it for 29 pieces
Alfred 6 Bennett as BoUngbroke! ’
receives, is simply a method of obtaining money under fthe
pretences It is a dirtier swindle than the three-card trick
and the barristers who avail themselves of this oUUstab-
hshed robbery are c mmon sharpers protect-d by law
S.S. ; Nature has already visited the lawyer named wbh
heavy punishment. His facial pecuhafitieS aro nTita
t° Protect his clients in thefr dealings with him?’ !
Maskley . Don t think so. Sir Alfred Stephen’s opinion
as ,!' c) . oircumstanc s under which a man should bo
judicially diverted from his wife is just as valuable
.s his opinion concerning the circumstances undef
which a m.iis soul should be judicially divorced from his
rtvT y *r * * * wa y s slad to hear from you •ju ' ■
Jhanks. Will consider 1 E.E.’ ■Heis a pious mao—of
the kind who “ would say grace over stolen mutton ” ‘ K
Mi Ison . Roberts, i M G, was selected by Parkes as a
tadv S ffe w C hf B n e ilH l ? 00er r fcS l had more than any-
body ®l-6 who ciuld be got to accept £l5OO a year. Of
course. Why cert nly. To be sure. Ya-a-s.. I EC ’ • The
the Crown Prosecutor ship
thf pff ‘“ fl uennal relatives on the Bench or at
the 8ir.... Waldo . Not according to our views. The jury
The Vagab nd a farthing damages not became
that was the vane of his character,” but because in their
opinion no man s character could suffer to the extent of
over a farthing from anything that might be said by any
reh ious editor.... 1 Ah Way'; We look forward with
much pleasure to seeing you exported in the shape of a bag
fweUtefton 0 'a®-, ? lle SS d Land.... ‘Subscriber'
(Wellington, N Z.): Yarn received, with thanks....
Pr ni ty r WeU guessed what Attorney-General
-°wJ °h would be concerning the Bulli affair..
- ' ,X, e Lave got our eye—the swelled one-on your
m u i Lhe height of Parkes' proposed
h f U Thil f th ! ex tfeme height of foolery
• yhe ou }y sanitary redeemingteature of the China-
man S life is the almost universal use of tea as a bsverage—
that is to say, of waW that has been boilei That Ifss-m i n
11 of rnore vaiue tha u anything brousht
™ numerous boards of health, national
/ i ‘i, M C' • Only of local interest, ar d not
understandsMe beyond Yars ■ G Beech'(Vic ): We have
imJrh= U i^ d u eSS "u" ,®, dward Stimson': The Mount Rennie
* he . evidence of Stanley ; (2) on
e Ta denC r Smith ; (3) on the evidence of
Ya Q | 53 - (l-JMr. Stanley, whose heroism
dto be . d e aervrog rf the Victoria errss, was subse--
o< !lr“ ltted for for B er y. but escaped trial, thanks to
a I re 7, Prosecutor. (2 ) The very latest about
Mr. Wapiti Smith is that he is eking out a living
as a ely-grog informer under peculiarly cowardly
ana treacherous circumstances which cast a lurid
light on the extent to which he is prepared to go for
the sake of money, and (3) it is now well-known, and can be
proved by official documents, that certain material facts
relative to the career of Miss Hicks, were, for some reason
best known tj the police, suppressed at the time of the trial.
Ihe allegations so Leely thrown out by certain daily papers as
to the commission by the prisoners of certain additional out
rages of an unmentionable character were simply deliberate
lies concocted for sensatinnal purposes and having no basis
m evidence.... E.D. (Croydon): Your little story from
the rowdy region of the Par North is to hand. Many th .nks
'• : Next week, perhaps ‘AJ.S,’
(Wagga). It is no news to us that the squattah is beginning
to employ Chinamen wholesale as shearers, and your par
squattah, who says he will engage no other than th>
yellow pts. to shear his flocks, is only a sample of many.
You have struck the right remedy Engage as many men
th u Y ai3t a 3 you can ' and sead fP-e'U 0!lt t 0
prospect for the cholera-coloured John with meat-axes ...
.S„fS,, h .;-, We u don ‘ oire if it was Billy Brooks in-
stead of Billy Miles who said the Griffioh Government would
ora-1? .f to their friends ” He didn't ougnt to have
said it, nohow— Fred. Thompson’: Please don’t write
SJf mere poetry ‘A. Longfellow’ (Tocumwal) :
Thanks. Probably next week,...‘ J.L.X.’ (Bundaberg);
ueid over owing to temporary insanity on the part of the
compositors.. ' H.R.B.’ (Bourke) : Letter rec ived with
prajer.... Smith (Dubba); You seem to have rather a
down on the other Smith when you send pars. like that
about mrn.. Why can t the Smiths in their little nests agree ?
•V.- le (Sydney); Yours is the tenth “Yom Kippur ”
which has reached us this week. It is held over for con-
sideration : the other nine welter in the waste-paper basket.


A recent issue of the Nooze states that
“ the people of Hay are much impressed by the
unassuming conduct of the Earl of Shaftesbury,
who has been on a visit to that town.” From
which we presume they expected him to swagger
about in spangles, and address everybody
haughtily as “ Base minion,” or words to that
effect.
Wc have received a telegram from tie
energetic and belligerent Mr. A. J. Ivimor,
from which we gather that he intend:
to take the “ necessary steps,” or something to
that effect, unless a libel about him is contra
dieted. We have accordingly hunted for the
paragraph —about a certain political meeting re-
cently addressed by him at Normanton— of which
he complains, but fail to sec that it contains
anything which is not, as was intended, airilygood-
natured. However, we presume Mr. I vimey thinks
there is a libel about-, or he would not have taken
the trouble to send us that telegram, and wnat-
ever it is we contradict it right off. IV it is there,
we contradict it; if it isn’t there, we contradict it
all the same ; in fact., wc contradict anything we
ever said about him. We also contradict any-
thing we may say about him in the future, and
after this generous and all-round contradiction
we trust that balmy peace may once more prevail
SUNDRY SHOWS,
Theatre Royal—" Silver King" „.,„p. 15
Exhibition RmnDiva.— Roller Skating Rink ..... ■■
Alhambra Music Hall. Minstrelsy
Criterion Theatre.—" Twelfth Night ”
Royal Standard Theatre. Minstrelsy 14
Her Majestys Theatre—“ Alone ” and "Black-
Eyed Susan” n
Being doomed for a certain time to slog
with misfortune on board this elusive sphere, we
presented ourselves in due course at Her Majesty’s
and lifted up our voice and wept. “Alone”
formed the first item in the programme, and
having seen this piece several times during a
chequered career, in the course of which we have
sometimes passed for a duke at the best hotels,
and on other occasions have eked out a precarious
existence by fainting outside public-houses and
being brought round with brandy, we expected
something particularly attractive, and it didn’t
come. The story is based cn the Doubles of an
old blind colonel of the most raving description,
whose daughter is induced to slide down a gas-
pipe, and call at a public-house, under false pre-
tences, and afterwards returns to the paternal
roof, somewhat after the fashion of the Probable
Son, and is assisted in her hour of need by a
widow with a red face. For a while the
old man doesn’t know her, and she leans
against a post, a soul-moving picture of grief ;
but a gobbling relative with a large appetite
shakes some devils out of a sack, and they enter
into the old man, and he rushes down a steep
place and brings up against an effleer, who is
somehow supposed to be responsible for the con-
duct of the girl in escaping down the gas-pipe. In
the next act, however, it transpires that she did it
out of the purest motives, and the relative with
the large appetite is thrown into the middle of
next week, and goes home to stamp on his wife,
and the rest of the party get married. “ Alone ”
is a pretty little family story, but it isn’t true to
nature ; family rows don’t end that way ; we have
been in one—by deputy—and we know. Once in
the dim long ago we had a friend named Mugg'ns
who was induced to go into partnership
with a young man called Higgs, who was one of a
largo family, and had an old blind father after
the pattern of the eyeless colonel. And his
troubles didn’t end that way—not much. The
first thing Higgs did was to engage two of his
brothers to travel for the firm and a third one to
keep the books, and he endorsed hills for his
uncle, which Muggins had to pay, and insured the
stock with an office where his cousin was secre-
tary, and gave his sister the run of the premises.
And when the sister set them on fire somehow
one night the cousin wouldn’t cash up, and the
banker, who was also a relative of Higgs’, started
to make trouble, and then Muggins sold cut bis
interest on credit to Higgs’ father, but as the old
man’s property was all settled on Higgs’ mother
lie never got a cent of the coin, and when
Muggins tried to square the account by
throwing a brick into the family circle, he
was run in. That is how the family row
goes in real life. But this is a digression. The
cast of “ Alone” is a good one with a sirgle excep-
tion. The elegant George Rignold is a genuine
success as the Colonel; so, in an even greater de-
gree, is Mr. Charles Holloway as the relative with
the large appetit c, and Mrs. George Kignold is an
interesting and kittenish widow. Mies Athena
Claudius acts with feeling and pathos as the girl
who slithered down the gas-pipe ; Mr. Brian Bar-
ley also scores a mitigated success in the part tf
the doctor, and words fail ns to describe the con-
duct of Mr Plum stead, A brick, a hatchet, a
bottle of wasps, or a mad elephant, are the aids
to ex pression which his case chiefly requires. The
performance closed with “ Black-eyed Susan,” in
which the good acting of Miss Alice Deorwyn as
Susan, and Mr. Rignold’s Willynm, are the most
prominent features.
** * *
Sometime during the week we may pos-
sibly have a look at Mr. Dampier’s new show at
Sydney Gaiety, but on Monday night circum-
stances were against us. With our accustomed
punctuality, we drove down behind the mule cf
onr forefathers, and when he jibbed on the tram-
line we got out and landed him about the tail
with a stone averaging half-a pound, and when
this failed we built a fire under him, and by these
and other means we reached our destinat'on about
7 Mo, to find every available standing place already
occupied. In the circle even the doorway was
partly blocked by a stout, middle-aged lady, with
large muddy hoots, who was resting her chin cn
the rail, and whose feet spread right across the
track, and brought our grey hairs down with sor-
row Into the hack of an innocent youth
who was standing by. We struggled again into
the perpendicular and apologised. “ Mullins,”
we said solemnly : “ Supposing, of course, that
your name happens to be Mullins, which seems
probable from your appearance, we beg your
pardon, but we really couldn’t help it. Fact is
we fell over the old she-pirate here with the
omnibus on each foot, and she brought us down.
Now, just tell us, did you ever in the whole
comae of your existence bring up against such an
object ? View the boots.” And then he explained
patiently that his name wasn’t Mullins, and that
we had fallen over his mother, and we resolved
to leave “ Shamns O’Brien ” over till next week
and get out at once. In fact, we would rather
have earned a precarious crust as an archbishop
than have stayed in there any longer.
#* # *
The newjjniastrels at Sydney Royal Stan-
dard are, in some respects, fit objects for the fury
of an outraged public, and, in ethers, they are
not. Two or three of the company ought to be on
the Noose, where they might make a living by
giving advice out of a full heart on various un-
savoury topics, and among this crowd the “ Won-
derful French Basso” seems to us to hold a pro-
minent place. Allied with him is the “Marvel-
lous Acrobatic Song and Dance Artist,” who
exhibits a generous back view to the admiring
public, and one or two more. The first part of
the show is decidedly the best, and leaves little
room for criticism, and the concluding farce helps
the audience to forget the antics of one or two
individuals who ought to be laid in the cold, cold
ground with the least possible delay,
AL AL. A/, AA.
"TV" TV TV* VY"
The Trevo Brothers, three wild and reck-
less acrobats who get on each other’s heads and
form a column 17 feet high, and then come down
with a neck-breaking crash, form the principal
feature this week at Sydney Alhambra. They
will kill themselves some day soon to a certainty,
for the way they go on is perfectly awful to any-
one except a butcher. The other new attraction
is Miss May Melville, who looks pretty and sings
nicely, and has already got the four front rows in
love with her, and is fast making an impression on
the back seats that will endure long after she has
passed away.
** * *
The Saint Maur Comedy Company, having
cleaned out Queensland and a number of the out-
lying districts of N.S.W., and left the population
generally without a cent, opens at Sydney Opera
House for al2 night season on October 17. A
hair-raising comedy sailed “Brighton” forms
the programme.
** * *
“Twelfth Night” continues to delight
a crowd which is three-fourths masher and one-
fourth old hyaena with a large family, at Sydney
Criterion. Sundry newspapers have lately been
engaged in denying (seemingly for the purpose of
circulating) a report that Miss Essie Jenyns is
about to be married to a riph lawyer; we now
authoritatively learn that the rumour is only an
empty weapon with nothing in it. We trust the
lawyer will he consoled «by the recollection that
his loss is plain Bill Holloway’s great gain.
** * *
Pressure of business and the arbitrary
conduct of a misguided compositor prevented ns
doing justice to Miss Jenny Watt-Tanner in last
Week’s notice of the “Silver King” at Sydney
Royal, and a bad cold which now haunts us and
makes ns wish we were an elephant so that we
should have a nose nine feet long, and then the
affliction wouldn’t be so much concentrated as it
is at present, restricts ns this week to the brief
remark that if she were left out, the “King”
wouldn’t he worth much. It might possibly do
without Captain De Burgh, or it might get along
by the aid of a plain De Burgh who wasn't a
captain, but Miss Watt-Tanner can’t be spared.
Mr. Titheradge closes a four-years’ engagement
with a benefit on Friday, with a view to joining
MADAME MADELINE SCHILLER.
Brough and Boucicault ; and on Saturday “ Har-
bour Lights ” will be to the fore.
*AA. AA. AA.
'A* W '7V*
“The Huguenots” are thriving under
persecution at Melbourne Royal. Last week they
carried on to such an extent that Signora Ciuti
took ill, but now she is well again, and her tug-
of-war with Raoul forms the leading featrrre of a
line show. Both Ciuti and Lazzarini bring all
their practised power to bear on the leading parts.
Her Valentine is of the sort fellows send to their
best girls in the ante nuptial period, and the
tenor’s Raoul is raoul good. In most other re-
spects justice is done to Meyerbeer’s shaj -doover,
which is filling the bill four nights out of six this
week. The best run of the season.
** * *
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, andMusgrove
(the latter, by the way, has just returned to the land
which gave him worth), having sent the “ Mikado”
to Adelaide for a change of air, “ Lea Cloches de
Corneville ” is running with subdued success at
Melbourne Princess’s. The plot of this opera was
discovered several years ago, and disturbed the
public very much at the time. But custom has
rather staled its infinite variety. We have seen
the village Shylock chuck his ducats about when
the bell rings at so many different theatres that
we fancy there must be method in his madness.
We have looked at “ this,” and looked at
“that” until we would prefer bo fix our sated
eye on something fresh. That old Bailie of
Corneville is no different to any other town-coun-
cillor, and Gobo is a distinct violation of every
municipal bye-law. The Princess’s revival of “ Les
Cloches ” fails to reveal any new depth of mean-
ing in music or dialogue. Miss Maggie Moore’s
Serpolette is not the brightest j ewel in her histrionic
crown. Serpolette should he an affected con-
temptible little chit, and the public can’the rushed
into believing that much of an established idol
Mr. Elton goes off his chump in the chateau with
pleasing results, but if Mr. Wallace injected some
of his superfluous humour into the rest of the com-
pany matters would brighten. Miss Aggie Kelton
is a sweet golden-haired Germaine when she lets
herself qui’e go. “ Les Cloches ”is not likely to
run as long as the historic brook.
AH .AL, AT, .V,
w w w •Jr
“ Modern Wives,” which ought to be an
interesting study for all about to marry, replaces
“Held by the Enemy” at Melbourne Bijou on
Saturday. Mr, Harwood takes a big benefit at
the Opera House this Thursday, and the nigger
minstrel businesses keep up returns with weari-
some monotony.
AA. AA, AL AA.
■TV" Tv* ‘TV’ W
The “ Vagabond's ” abortive libel action
against the Wesleyan Spectator has inspired
him to make capital out of his well-advertised
failure. This week he lectures, in Melbourne, on
“ One Farthing Damages,” treating of “the true
story of mission work in the South Seas, of the
real King Thakombau, and of the law of libel in
Victoria.” That ought to help work off the dead
horse. We shaT now learn whether the Holy
Spirit that filled Thakombau was much ever-
preof, and If the converted cannibal really did
die “ in the odour of sanctity and a dirty blanket,”
as Julian stated. Perhaps he will produce the
blanket.
* * * *
Mr. George Tingcombe —a warbler in
the Amy Sherwin concert company—hails from
Goulburn, N.S.W.
* * * *
At Brisbane Royal, Carrie Swain has
taken the town by storm with “ The Tomboy,”
and the cabin of the deceased Uncle Thomas.
Also, Amy Sherwin holds forth with considerable
success at the Town Hall.
* * * *
The jovial Bland Holt took unto himself
a spare rib at Adelaide a few days ago. The
lady is a Miss Anderson, who recently arrived
from Hngland to take the part of leading lady m
Bland’s company, and she makes her first colonial
appearance in New Zealand. She is alleged to be
a beautiful brunette, and from her reputation as
an actress it is anticipated, &c., &c.
Ex-banker Holt is again reported to be
dying. This time, however, he is merely dying to
get out to see the Melbourne Cup run.
Probably the most expensive old cognac ever
brought to Sydney has just been sold by Mr.
M‘Leod, broker, of Bond-street, at 168s. per
dozen. The vintage was of the year 1832, The
mporters were Messrs. J. J. Roth and Co.
BRIEF MENTION.
£29,000 transaction,
A legal conveyance —Black Maria.
“God Save the Queen” — and let the
country rip.
Butter has declined in price in Sydney.
This means a boom in butterine.
The back-blocks’ version of it ; A con-
tented mind is a continual drunk.
The best-advertised and most efficacious
patent-medicine : “Rough on Rats.”
To make an Orange Lodge you should
have your fruit over-ripe, and hit your politician
hard.
A man named Bible has been charged
with embezzlement. He is probably the revised
version.
The London Times says that Sir Patrick
Jennings is “Premier of N.S.W., Victoria.”
Let us federate.
The attention of the police is directed to,a
cockatoo in George street, Sydney, which sings
out “The Bulletin ” on Sundays.
Melbourne Herald says that Fijians are
remarkably polite. Trife, they’ll always take a
stranger in, and he usually stops to dinner.
The Northern Miner says that Queens-
land will never produce rags enough for paper
manufacture. Just so. No clothes, no rags.
Gustave Linck, of Gippsland (Vic.), at-
tempted to pull his loaded gun out of a buggy by
the muzzle. Gustave is now a missing Linck.
At Cairns (N.Q.) all dogs must wear
collars. There is, however, nothing to make the
local editors wear collars. A collar is evidently a
sign of degradation.
James Gibson, of Wallsend (N.S.W.),
stole some chickens the other night. He also
stole a saucepan. This is true providence. We
don’t mean Divine Providence.
Machinery may be elevated by water, but
it takes rum to elevate the noblest work of God.
This beautiful thought flash'd across us as we
were looking at a lift the other day.
From Sydney E. News ;—“Drunkenness-
cured in two days. Send thirteen stamps for re-
ceipt. Address, Bona-fide, G.P.0., Sydney.”
Here is the recipe 18 hours without the hoption.
They drive a mule in the polo of a Sydney
’bus. Originally the driver engineered four, but
the three others had low irstincts and ran for
Parliament, We have every reason to believe
they got in. '
“ What will God give us ? ” was the title
of a lecture delivered in one of the Melbourne
churches the other day. We were not there to
hear what the answer was, but for our own part
we should say that some of us will probably ha
given particular Sheol.
“Dead Horses Removed” is the grue-
some legend pasted in the window of a boarding-
house in Little Collins street, Melbourne, We
presume they are “removed” —in instalments—
by the boarders. This is what is called at sea
“ working off a dead horse.”
A Ballarat clergyman, waxing warm on
the New Hebrides, said : “ The natives naturally
look to Australia ; to our bounty they owe the
numerous missionaries who have ministered to
them 1” The zealous cleric moans to say that
those niggers are bounty-fed.
When shall we hear the last of that libel
action brought against our old journalistic friend
Ben Hoare, for saying that a prominent citizen of
his town had relations in Hell! Why the man
ought to have been proud of this. He -might be
glad of their influence one day.
District Court Judge Forbes declares he
believes that the mere formality of kissing the
Bible in a Court of law will not deter an habitual
liar from following his usual practice. “Habitual
liar” is good, but not original. We have heard it
applied to “ mimbirs av th’ fooroe ” before.
Fiat justitia. This is the way the ques-
tion is introduced by the foreman of the jury up
North, when they retire to deliberate. (N.B. He
is a German baker.) “Now den, pe quick. Yoind
him kilty, Oder not kilty. I donkerdam vich ;
boot I must ket avay to zet mine patch of pred.”
The facetious young man who writes the
“ Answers to Correspondents ” column in a Mel-
bourne paper says, in his waggish way, apropos
of something or other, “We’ve got a brother a
porter.” We have no doubt he has. And a sister
a shandygaff. And a father, most probably, a-
hogshead.
The London police are being taught short-
hand “to enable them to put on paper quickly
the results of their investigations and examina-
turns.” Pooh! We know all about it. The
policemen want to become reporters. Very well.
The reporters will make reprisals. They will at
once proceed to fit themselves for duty as policemen
by reading the history of Ananias.
The Ararat (Vic.) Gaol is to be turned
into a lunatic asylum. This will be the destiny of
all gaols in time. Nobody but a lunatic need get
into gaol. We have been in gaol. We were
lunatics then. We called things by their right
names. Now we call them by whatever names
please the most people. We are not so mad now ;
nor so young ; nor sb good. Pass the tear-jug.


PEPPEr
And
Salt
We owe the old Gxjmte.ee Jernil an
apology. For many years we have recognised
that paper as an authority on etiquette ; we have
admired the impassioned fervour of its manure
articles, and have worshipped the stupendous
grasp it has upon sewage; and though we have in
moments of playful levity scrubbed the sore parts
of the Jkrnil and then thrown it downstairs on
its ear, we have always done so in a brotherly
spirit. But we regret it all the same, and accord-
ingly we proceed to pick up the remains of the
Gumtree, and blow the dust out of its hair, and
apologise. Our conversion is based chiefly on an
article on “When and How to Wash the Feet,”
which appeared in a recent issue. Politely but
firmly the editor insists that the feet ought to be
washed sometimes, and he also considers it desir-
able that they should be dried and the corns
carved. In his private capacity he is further of
opinion that it is inadvisab'e to gesticulate with
the fork at dinner-time, as by so doing it is pos-
sible that the diner may take out his eye with the
prongs, and be considers that one of the saddest
sights on record is a gentleman in evening
dress holding one eye on a fork while he
looks at it with the other. This sentiment, we
believe, is borrowed from an eminent American
authority, and is enlorsed by the leading
physiologists of the age. The Jehnil further
planks down its sentiment that no lady moving In
the best society should dine without boots and
stockings, and it firmly advocates (he theory that
the cat should not he allowed to lick the plates in
the dining-room. These things have made a deep
impression on us. As we have already stated, we
withdraw all the unkind words we over said
about the Weekly Bennett, and we now extend
the hand of friendship to that paper, and trust,
if it is not too busy washing its feet, it will meet
us in a brotherly spirit. The hard words we
have used in the past were based entirely on a
mistaken idea that the Jkrnil did not wash its
feet, and we now offer all the reparation that is
in our power. And if it should chance that the
breach is too wide to be healed in this world—if
we are doomed to pass the rest of our earthly
pilgrimage in enmity with a respected contem-
porary that washes its feet—we can only hope for
better fortune in a better world. Perhaps when
the reverberating corridors of time echo no longer
to our tread, and we march instead up the golden
path that leads to the gates of pearl, we may
chance on that hallowed ground to fall over the
Jernil, as it sits washing its feet in a jewelled
tub on the edge, of the jasper sea, and then—but
the picture is too affecting for further contempla-
tion. We feel confident, however, that the
Jernil will be there. A paper that washes its
feet cannot be lost beyond all hope of redemption.
• • ♦
Bishop Field Flowers Goe is groaning
under his “ burdensome ” prerogative of sanc-
tioning the hitching together of Edwin and Ange-
lina in a scullery, or an attic, or a hay loft, or
anywhere other than in a full-blown church.
Marriage, in the words of the Apostle Goe, is a
“ holy state,” but useless for purposes of mort-
gage. You can enter it under the influence of
stimulants (like the late Earl of Lonsdale, or like
one British bridegroom out of every twenty), but
that doesn’t alter what is and ever shall be. You
can hiccup your way into the holy state of matri-
mony, but there you are when you get there.
“ To speak of marriage” (a bit more of the Bishop)
“ as a mere civil contract, or to assert that human
laws can degrade it into a civil contract, is an ar-
rogant assumption.” Well, we guess a registrar
trys hard to start civil nuptials, when he requests
the happy man to “shove the door-key on her
thumb and s»y what I tell you.” But he can’t
prevail against terewtb, not even the registrar.
“ Marriage is a divine” (more Bisnop) “Institution
in itself, and no act of man can add to or detract
from its sacred character ; for it was instituted of
God in the time of man’s innocenoy.” There’s a
good deal more Goe to get through, but we must
give him best for the present. The moral of it all
is just this—that unless you take your “ mash ” to
he married in a church and bestow a pecuniary
benediction on tbe verger, you must surely grill
on the great everlasting gridiron. Meantime, let
us borrow a small one from the kitchen and
tune up—
A sad story of lovely woman’s folly and a
thick stick comes from Gippsland (Vie.) The
wffe of one Cullen, a navvy, appears to have been
ind’sereet—very indiscreet. So, on the strength
of certain painful suspicions, the injured Cullen
proceeded to instruct his wife in social purity and
the sacredness of marriage obligations. Tbe stick
was heavy—both parties were drunk Mrs. Cullen
received one unlucky blow which left her blind
and half-dazed— sans memory, eyesight, or repu-
tation. We will put the moral of that story in
plain, unvarnished verse :
“ COLOSSAL CHEEK.”
“AT THE N.S.W. FREETRADE ASSOCIATION’S ANNUAL MEETING, ONE OF THE
MOST EFFECTIVE SPEECHES OF THE EVENING WAS MADE BY THE HON. F.
ABIGAIL.” —Daily Paper.
Looking out of the window of our bath-
room one morning lately we saw two little mites
—a brother and sister—playing at keeping shop in
the next back-yard. “ Now, Tommy,'’ said the
sister, who was the elder of the two, ‘ you must
be a roan, an’ I’m keepin’ a Ao-tel, an’ you must
come with a bottle an’ ast me to trust you for
threepennith o’ beer till to-morrer, when you gets
your wages.” Tommy disappeared for a moment
and then emerged with a square gin-bottle in his
arms. He repeated his lesson, and his sister as
soon as he had finished drew herself up to her full
infantile height, and putting her little arm akimbo,
said : “ No, Mr. William (that was his surname)
I can’t trust you no more. You owe me free and
sixpence already, an’ you don’t git no more beer
out o’ this house till you’ve paid it. When you
git your wages you always goes somewhere else
an’ spends ’em. Go and get your beer there now.
They’ll trust you ” (with a jerk of the head in-
tended to convey the most biting sarcasm), “ I
make no doubL” The moral of this little incident
is that a man should never take his little daughter
with him when he goes to get beer on credit.
* * *
Now and then we hear with envious rap
ture of a man who was born with a silver spoon
in his mouth, and again we are moved to tears by
a sad tale of one who perished with a fork in his
liver. Julian Smith, of Melbourne, belonged, un-
fortunately, to the latter category. Forks in the
liver are unwholesome, and he died of his. Julian
was a lunatic, so a paternal Government shouted
him a nice, airy madhouse to live in, but still he
wasn't satisfied, and he began to swallow green
paint, pins, and shoe leather, and when all these
failed, he consumed a fork and it stuck in his
liver and brought him low. The door of eternity
opened and he fell inside on all fours ; his soul
took wings, and softly and silently he vanished
away. Nobody cared much when he was dead;
the man with the silver spoon in his mouth gets
all sorts of obituary notices in the papers, but the
man with a fork in his liver is of no account-. For
a brief space he Hogs with calamity, and then he
resigns, and this green earth knows him no more,
and his remains are as likely as not interred
upside down with the legs sticking up in the air.
Perhaps in the next world s'me'hing may be
dons to square off the difference between the man
who lived with the spoon and the man who died
owing to the fork, but in the present state of
existence the latter has not much of a show.
The Chinese fish-hawkera of Melbourne
are described as “Animals, apparently a cross
between monkey and man, seemingly eaten
bald-headed by vermin, bodies quivering with
weakness and disease, and covered with
rotten rags that emitted the most disgust-
ing smells, the long nails of their claw-like
Augers filled with the scrapings of every abomina-
tion ” This is the sort o’ thing to give a man an
appstice for fried flathead at breakfast.
To THOSE ABOUT TO MARRY.
All you young couples intending to wed,
Never be dragged or enticed
Into getting “ turned off” in a well-furnished
room,
Instead of a church full of echoes and gloom,
For you cannot escape the above-mentioned doom
If you haven’t been decently spliced.
Court in the parlour as much as you will
(The couch Is the lover’s delight),
But when you’ve decided that neither is loth
To share all the troubles—or money—of both,
Don’t wed in the house where you plighted your
troth—
The Bishop is sure it’s not right.
Marriage, you know, is a “holy estate,"
As clergy are apt to remark ;
When Adam took Eve on a midsummer day,
They drove up to church in the orthodox way.
The Serpent he gave the young woman away,
And Gabriel acted as clerk.
King Solomon married his thousands, or more
(The figures are there, if you search) ;
Do you think, on those solemn occasions so rare,
He slipped on the ring with a secular air
At her Pa’s private house? We are willing to
swear
Sol, took the whole boiling to church.
These brick-villa weddings the Bishop abhors,
They rouse all his reverend ire ;
He’ll never —no, never— be happy until
Some member of Parliament brings in a Bill
To make it illegal to murmur “ I will ”
In front of the drawing-room Are.
A flg for the scoffers who often protest
It is better for folks to contract
In a plain, civil way to be partners. Of course,
The arrangements, so sinfully made, are the source
Of misery, madness, and suits for divorce—
Goe knows for a positive fact.
CLASS DISTINCTIONS.
A certain silly woman, which her name begins
with C ,
Was not exactly better than she always ought to
be —
But she’s terribly unlucky, as you’ll certainly
agree.
Her husband (honest navvy) rather doted on his
spouse,
Till he came to know of conduct calculated to
arouse
A fear that he’d be hampered with some horns
upon his brows.
Were this woman but a countess, or a duchess, or
a queen,
A little spicy scandal there might possibly have
been;
Still, nothing much to speak of—nobles never
“ make a scene.”
But the jealous navvy’s moral epidermis wasn't
thick,
Like that of batter people; so he started, pretty
quick,
To administer correction to the sinner with a
stick.
He whacked her “ something cruel ” (it was only
to be kind) —
He drove all giddy mem’rias from her beer-
clouded mind ;
And that woman sees her error, though, unhap-
pily, she’s blind,
With a drowsy sense of soreness in the region of
the head,
With her daylight gone for ever, and all recollec-
tion fled,
The poor, misguided creature must regret she
isn’t dead.
Yet, were she but a countess, or a duchess, or a
queen,
The merest passing scandal there might possibly
have been —
Here sassisty’s advantages are easy to be seen.
Though we jeer at lords and ladies very often in
our songs,
One virtue, we admit, to true nobility belongs—
It hasn’t vulgar notions of a husband’s rights and
wrongs.
THE ATTITUDE THAT’S NEW.
“ Special photographs of Sir Henry were
taken . . . the attitudes in some of them
being new.”— Herald.
In many galleries may be seen
Good photos., P s, of you ;
But, since the first, the trouble’s been
“ An attitude that’s new.”
And now, when we had waited years,
Just when we desperate grew.
A man has found —excuse our tears—
“ An attitude that’s new.”
Enraptured more than artist’s mind
That e'er a portrait drew.
Must be that man’s who has designed
“The attitude that’s new.”
We vainly seek, with wakeful eyes.
In nightly thoughts of you,
Pr Mean statesman, that surprise,
“ An attitude that’s new.”
At last I at last! it must be so—
This “attitude that’s new ”
Is Henry, with his crei-t of snow,
A-paying what is due ! I
PERSONAL ITEMS.
M‘Elhone is unwell.
There lives at Sandhurst a parson named
Garlick. How can he die in the odour of sanctity ?
Bishop Barry’s sons will remain at col eyre
in England for some years “on account of Lhe
meat.”
The Queen wears black on account of her
stoutness. That is also why you never see fhe
clergy attired in white.
There’s a Q.C. in Victoria who is ger era !‘y
said to be son of a Master of the Rolls. But the
fact is that his father was a baker.
The Earl of Buckinghamshire, who is ro v
visiting the colonies, is a nephew of the late
Hobart Pasha, of the Turkish navy.
A Hebrew citizen named Lewis Lewis has
just celebrated his 101 th birthday, at Sandhurst,
Vic. His father was cut off at the age of 107.
It is whispered by the Mudgee Indepen-
dent that Parkes has three creditors in his
Ministry. This, no doubt, is a malicious inven-
tion.
Dr. Cameron Lees says that Presby'eriat:-
ism has made Scotland what it is. Scotland, as
everyone knows, is the home of illegitimacy aid
whisky.
Rev. J. Chalmers, the New Guinea mis-
sionary, is stout, thick-set, and jolly lo ki g.
This is the manner of man beloved of the anihro-
pophagiat.
The learned Jus’.ice Kerford, of Viet u>,
is said to have once asked a civil engineer >« ho
was in the witness box, if a right ang'e to wli ch
he referred was an acute angle ?
Mr. H. Byron Moore, secretary of iLc
V.R.C , has been made a New South Wales b ak.
We raise our hat to His Worship, and hope ho’.l
have no more rheumatism after thi t.
Hon, W. Pearson, of Kilmany Puk,
member for Gippsland in tbe Victorian L“g s a-
tive Council, has received over £300,000 in divi-
dends from the Long Tunnel gold mine.
The N.S.W. Salvation Army boasts < f
having saved a lawyer who was foimerH a (J o vn
Prosecutor. This is the nearest approach to con-
verting the devil that we have yet heard of.
David Syme has returned from his nine
months’ trip to Europe, and there is “ mustei iag
in hot haste,” net to speak of “murmuring wi.n
pale lips,” in the office of the Melbourne Age.
It is related that Mr. Dailey, in trying to
convey the idea that a certain individual was an
“ almighty swell,” remarked : “Why, compared
to him, Critchett Walker is a mere me?senger. ’
Mayor Riley has countermanded an order
for a gold salver on which a municipal adf're*s
from Sydney was to be offered to the Qnc n.
This kills Sir Alban’s chance of a K C M G. ship.
The Sydney police are anxious to find the
owner of a silver cup, a present from the E irl of
Winchelsea to Mrs. MarrinlSll. Locks as if
they’ve been running the Hon. Finch-Hatton in
again.
The late well-known sporting journalist,
Frederick Dicker Hamilton, who died not long ago
in Sydney, swore in the Supreme Court, M 1-
bource, that “ he knew more about hoises thin
any other man on two legs.”
A certain Victorian member of Parliament
has resided for 13 years in the same hotel in Ger-
trude street, Fitzroy. Nothing very remarkable,
we hear you say. But what do you think of this.
He has paid his board all the time !
Rev. G. D. Buchanan, the Yankee incum-
bent of Cairns Memorial Presbyterian Church,
Melbourne, speaks of Sir Henry Loch as “a
Christian gentleman.” That’s what the clerical
grovellers used to call George IV, half a century
ago.
George Coppin was once asked to act as
Treasurer of a fund which was being raised for a
widow. He said he wouldn’t mind subscribing,
but if he consented to hold the coin the public
might fancy the thing was one of “Coppin’s
dodges.”
What’s in a name ? One William Glad-
stone lately died at an advanced age in the Parra-
matta Asylum. In the early days three London
pickpockets were “lagged” to N.S.W. under tbe
names of William Pitt, Charles James Fox, and
Edmund Burke!
C. A. Smyth, the Victorian Crown Prose-
cutor, once stated iu the Supreme Court that he
never allowed the Melbourne Herald into his
house. The other day the Herald gave his por-
trait, during the Laura Swain inquest. Perhaps
C. A. took a penn’orth that nighL
Melbourne burglar has no gratitude.
Ha tried, the other evening, to break into the
home of Mr. Sam. Gillott. an attorney who has
been instrumental in enabling more scoundrels to
escape gaol than any other Australian lawyer—
Roberts, of Sydney, perhaps, excepted.
All the first-class passengers by a Western
Queensland train one day last week consisted of
an Anglican Bishop and one of his clergymen, two
Catholic priests, and a Wesleyan minister. Not
one of the blessed crowd thought of travelling
second-class and giving the balance in charity.
Mr. Buchanan, S.M., who is about to re-
tire from the Sydney Bench, is described by the
Press as a “ firm and courteous magistrate.” On
one occasion an offender asked him for “ i ustlce
only, yer washup." “ You shall have it,” said
the firm and courteous Buchanan—“ six months’
hard labour.”
Mr. Wm. M‘Millan, M.P., has been
elected president of the Freetrade Association.
Mr. M’Millan, who, of course, is a sofe-goods im-
porter, says that “ Freetrade is the brotherhood
of labour," He is one of the class who wants John
Jones to acknowledge that he is the brother of
John Chinaman.
The raison d'etre of the Primrose League
is the landlord's desire to secure bis rent. That
being so, it is not a little curious that one of the
leaders of the feeble Primrose movement in Aus-
tralia should happen to be a man who, it is notori-
ous, never by any chance pays his landlord if he
can possibly help it,
The present site of the Sydney Infirmary
was originally a grant from the Crown to Mrs.
John Blaxland. Mrs. Macquarie induced Mrs.
Blaxland, during her husband’s absence in
England, to part with it as a site for a hospital,
promising a big grant in return, which promise
was never fulfilled, £lOO compensation being all
Mr. Blaxland ever got.
Iu a rtcviit lecture, Mr. luglis, the N.S.W.
Minister of Education, spoke of good ale as “ the


true wine of life, the best lining for a naked man’s
doublet.” If the youngster sent to the little pub.
round the corner with the jug now fails in having
a long pull thereat on his homeward way rejoic-
ing, it won’t be for want of public instruction by
, o ne’ who is old enough to know.
It would be a good thing if the N.S.W.
'Government took into consideration the advis-
. ableness of removing from office certain drunken
police magistrates, and appointing moderately
sober ones in their place. The Bulletin does
not like to see the sword of alleged justice in the
hands of any man who has swallowed more than
one bottle of whisky within the previous 12 hours.
The magnificent Captain G. F. Bartrop,
Clerk of the Peace at Melbourne, has been made a
magistrate of N.S.W. Parkes must have done
this in view of his visit to Melbourne. Bartrcp’s
influence pervades Melbourne society, and
Sir Henry must have created him a J.P. to
make things pleasant for himself while he was in
the Victorian capita l . It was all he could give ;
had he been able he would have made it a C.M.G.-
sh’p-
Parkes is always cool in moments of ex-
treme danger. When he was at Burrumbuttock
(N.S.W.) recently he stood calmly listening to the
guttural German who read a fulsome address of
welcome, and as he listened an expression of
ethereal bliss rose on his countenance, and he
struck an attitude. And yet all the while the
most ferocious dog-fight ever ssen in the neigh-
bourhood was going on right between his legs, and
he never jumped once.
At the farewell tea-meeting given to
Graham Berry, in Geelong, when the toasts were
drunk in ginger-ale, Premier Gillies and Chief
Secretary Deakin, who felt very melancholy,
passed the time by exchanging “conversation
ozenges” with the ladies. Fact! It was a
treat to see Duncan adjust his gold-rimmed
glasses on his ncse to read an inscription like thi°,
“You are au awful masher,” or “You have
stolen my heart.” Deakin seemed to be used to
the business, but then he was fresh frjm Sunday
school t c a meeiiugs,
Melbourne gaol was long known as
“ Win tie’s Hotel ” from the fact that a genial old
soldier of that name was governor away back in the
fifties. He was succeeded by another good soul,
j.B. Cestieau, who was an amateur actcr, and
member of the Yorick Club. During Castieau’s
term of office he once received by mail a price-list
from a firm of 'ore’gn pianoforte manufacturers,
addressed to him at ’• Wintle’s Hotel,” and within
was a circular conveying the siogular intimation :
“ Your house has long and favourably been known
to the senior partner of our firm.”
It may not be generally known here, but
it is a fact, that although “Coffee” Jones, who
died a few days ago, never thee'd or thou’d any-
one, and wore no broad-brimmed hat, he belonged
to that band of brothers whose mimbers in this
country are few — the Society of Friends. He was
so perfectly rabid a Freetrader that he was never
twice returned to Parfiament by the same consti-
tuency; and although a first-class President of the
Ballarat Mechanics’ Institute he was the biggest
political failure ever raised south ot the Murray.
He used to wear coloured slop tweeds and green
gloves at a ball !
When the magnificent Mortimer Franklyn,
Esquire, of the Melbourne World and Federal
Australian, was under cross-examination in the
Insolvency Court, he mentioned that to raise the
wind on one occasion he had to hypothecate his
watch. “Do you mean that you pawned it?”
asked the Semitic attorney Braham (the Puryes
of the Bankruptcy Court, and the terror of in-
solvents.) “ You can call it pawned if you liKe,’
said Franklyn coolly—“ I call it * hypothecated.
“ Did you hypothecate it with a pawnbroker ? ”
asked Judge Noel, smacking his lips in the usual
style. “ Yes, your Honor,” replied the friend of
the Hentys. “ Then I call it pawning,” de-
cisively remarked the Judge.
Old John Fairfax, who has since entered
the place that rich men find easier than camels fled
the eye of a needle, was once the autocrat of the
Sydney Press. According to his principles he was
the fons et origo ot the Hunter-street daily. He
would admit of no literary staff, no editor, no
“ anythink.” These things had no existence.
Questioned as to the personality of the editor, he
would reply, *’ lam the editor. ’ If his interlo-
cutor murmured softly the name of .Dr. West,
John Fairfax would claim that he hired Dr. West,
the historian, to conduct his paper according to his
(John Fairfax’s) directions. “ Whose article is
this!” si My article,” he would retort; “I
bought it and paid for it; hence it belongs to me.”
Now the'HERALD has a day editor, and a night
editor, and a luneb editor, and a sporting editor,
and an interview editor, and a managing editor,
and a fashion editor, &c,, &c. They each take
turn about as religious editor. It’s enough to
make old John Fairfax turn in his grave.
Domenico Padrani, an Italian homicide,
has just been liberated from prison after having
served a term of 57 years. He is now 83, and
thinks the world has changed a little since he saw
it last.
Dr. Youl, the Melbourne City Coroner,
says that the Tasmanian small pox scares is all
humbug. The diseaseis not small-pox at all, he says,
but a violent form of chicken-pox,endemic in
mania for the past half century.
The Druggists’Circular says that “tv
bring up ‘ flat’ wine a common practice is to drop
a few rats into the cask through the bung-hole. The
rat flavor is said to be ‘ perfectly delicious.’ ” We
once knew a Melbourne publican who believed in
this system.
At the N.S.W. general muster in 1810
there were 1255 men, 731 women, and 2301 children
free. The convict population was 2731 men, and
1266 women. In the year 1821 the muster was
free men 5323, women 3122, children 7221. The
c nvict population numbered 13,811, as follows :
Men 12,608, women 1206,
A Horsham (Vic.) paper alleges that a de-
parting editor “ does not leave an enemy behind
him in town.” Which reminds us of the old story of
the dying cannibal and the missionary. “ Forgive
your enemies, my son,” said the holy man. I
have no enemies,” replied the anthropophagist,
feebly stroking his stomach—” I have eaten them
all.”
The Argus, which has been “ stuck ” for
£5O and costs for libelling C- B. Jones, evidently
thought it was quite safe to write anything about
the Paachal-lamb-and-mint-sauce man who ac-
cepted the cheque for £6O from Kerferd and Co.,
but therein it made a big mistake. By the way,
it would have been a grim joke had Judge
A’Beckett added another £lO to the verdict and
made it £6O. However, his Honor, although a
nephew of the author of “ The Comic Biaokstone,”
is by no means a humorist.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The dregs of politics—the Lees,
A place of corruption — Parkes’ dead
house.
Sydney is overrun with Arabs, Hindoos,
Malays, Kanakas, Chinamen and other Free-
traders.
The Freetrade Association of N S.W.
have elected a real live labourer one of their vice-
presidents.
Why should N.S.W. public-houses be
shut at 11 ? The NSW. Parliamentary refresh-
ment-room doesn’t shut at 11.
THE MAN OF SORROWS ACQUAINTED WITH GRIEVANCES.
G. H. Reid says that Melville is the only
consistent Protectionist in the new Assembly,
We now want a list of cone l tent Freetraders.
T T , ,
It is rumoured that J. P. Abbott intends
to form a third party in the N.S.W. Assembly. It
will consist of J. P. Abbott. The rail feels lonely
(f late
w .. „ ... „„„„„ ry , QQ 4.;„„ Lorn of
We notice that every me g
Croydon (Q )is ‘ anti -something. There a
lot of Irishmen there, and they re all agm the Go-
vernment.
Politician Penzer, from a place called
Dubbo, intends to break silence this session in the
N.S.W. Assembly. It is rumoured he will make an
interjection. _
Tom Slattery, M.L.A., isn’t on speafcipg
terms with Hon. Ginger Clarke. A man must be
awfully wicked when a lawyer refuges to shake
hands with him
It i, proposed that steps should be tsken
to test the legality of the vote of £lOOO recently
passed by the Melbourne Corporation in aid ot the
Imperial Institute.
Law in nearly every European countrysave
' , w , y y , .L a.
England reserves minerals as the prope ty . ®
State. In England the law
belong to the landlord. The ma go
also belongs to the landlord.
“And what did you think of John
Haynes’lecture, Patsy?” “ WellMoike,begorra,
he can talk a hurricane, but I didn’t learn much.
He was like a horse that always rushes up agin
the fence and baulks without jumping.”
A native Indian paper complains that the
English are taking away to their country all
India possesses. The assurance of those Hindoos
is astounding. They will next probably object to
any English officer taking home a diseased liver.
It is confidently stated, by people who
ought to know, that disclosures shortly to be
made as to transactions on the part of certain
members of the Parkes’ Ministry are such that
that Government will at once have to leave office,
~,,,.. , , , , .
It has been pointed out that should tree
railway-passes for life be granted to members who
have sat in the Victorian Parliament for seven
years, ex-convicts, fraudulent it solvents, and
paupers will become a permanent burden on the
•i x, ramrma
railway revenue. „ _
Dr. Rose, M.L.A. for .North Melbourne,
is now engaged in a crusade against the
unspeakable Chinese. Phillippics against the moral
delinquencies ot the almond-eyed Mongolian como
with singularly good grace from a gentleman who
has so successfully figured as co respondent in a
divorce suit,
The cable states that Balfour, Chief Secre-
tary for Ireland, has visited Londonderry guarded
by a posse of police. Why, Derry was until lately the
hot-bedof Orangeismand Coercion. Things political
must indeed have changed when the high priest
of Coercion has to be guarded by police from the
’prentice boys of Derry !
In the S. M. Herald’s report of the
speeches at the N.S.W. Freetrade Association
annual meeting the speeches are puactuated with
“ cheers ’’and “ laughter." The D.T., however,
fills in the pauses with “ cheers, groans, uproar,
&c.” Editors Cnrnow and Ward should put
their heads together in future.
Mr. Mackenzie, N S. W. Examiner of Coal-
fields, explains that he is unable to part with his
interest in some of the coal-mines which he has
to inspect, until a Supreme Court action has been
settle!. We would remind the Minister for Mines
that Mr. Mackenzie may be enabled to part with
his billet ever so much quicker than that.
What a treat it must be to see M’Lellao,
the Dove of Ararat, filling the chair in the Vic-
torian Assembly and calling Bent and Gauneon to
order 1 This is the same amiable M’Lellan who
years ago said that “if ever it were permitted to
throw stale eggs in that chamber he would be the
first to break one on the nose of the hen. the
Minister of Justice ” (Bindon).
Parkes makes this statement, therefore it
must be undiluted truth: “We know well
5 enough that the salaries of Ministers are of so
little importance that they are in no sense a
temptation to the greater number of men who
take office.” Exactly sol Possibly some men
think Ministerial salaries a nuisance, as they may
lead to a temptation to pay debts !
Twenty years ago, W. Clarke, the present
N.S.W. Minister of Justice, was one of the lights
of a debating society at the West Melbourne
Literary Institute. He got into very hot water
one night in a debate on Freetrade v. Protection
by saying that the factories, where large numbers
of girls and men were employed, were not desir-
able things from a moral point of view.
Messrs. Neild, Allen, Hutchinson, Davis,
Henson, and Carruthers —among whom are at
least five red-hot Orangemen—have received from
Brother Habigle £562 more for public parks in
their constituencies than the whole of the 10
Oppositionists, out of some of whose electorates
tracts as big as Canterbury and Paddington could
be stolen without anyone being one bit the
wiser.
The other day the Dublin Daily Express,
a red-hot Tory print, solemnly published a blood-
and-thunder document, which, it stated, was the
text of the bull of excommunication issued by the
Vatican against Dr. M’Glynn. The thing was
taken from a Yankee paper, and was evidently
meant as a skit. The day after it appeared in the
Express, someone wrote to the Dublin Freeman
pointing out that the “ bull ” was copied from
Sterne’s “ Tristam Shandy”! “The Stupid
Party what a lovely name for the Conserva-
tives !
With an exultant screech, G. H. Reid
declared at a meeting of the N.S.W. Freetrade
A ssociation that when the working men of
America struck for the eight-hour system, they
were shot down like dogs, and he added, “ Our
working men have not come to that yet; they
can get it without fighting—without being shot
down.” What has been troubling 5000 working
men of N.S.W. during the past twelve months
has been not the eight-hours-a-day system, but
where to get eight hours’ work a week apart from
Government charity 1
Melville gave Garrett a heavy blow in the
N.S.W. Assembly last week. The latter, in an
unguarded moment, said that the lives and
honour of Ministers were not safe in the hands of
certain members, including Melville. The wily
representative of Northumberland waited for his
opportunity, and then, with subtle sarcasm, he
reminded Garrett that it was not many years
since a vote of his (Melville’s) was declared
by Parkes to be “a red-hot, burning brand of
I shame,” and that he was classed as one of “ forty
; thieves" who voted (in a majority of two) against
Garrett’s expulsion from Parliament. Parkes
i tried to smile, but Garrett fairly winced under
Melville’s full-facer. He sought consolation by
gazing fixedly at his boots for a minute or two,
and then walked out of the Chamber to breathe in
a less sultry atmosphere, Garrett’s brazen auda-
city has hitherto asserted itself against any
damnatory denunciation, but on this occasion ho
was fairly crushed.
Mr. Ernest Renan, in the following beauti-
ful passage, aptly summarizes the Socialist ideal:—
“ We have forgotten that it is in the common life that the
soul of man has tasted most joy. The Psalm ‘ Behold, how
good and joyful it is, brethren, to dwell together in unity !’
has ceased to be ours. But when modern individualism baa
borne its last fruits; when humanity, dwarfed, dismal, im-
puissant, shall return t j great institutions and their strong
discipline ; when our paltry shopkeeping society—say, rather,
wh ?n our world of pigmies—shall have seen driven out with
scourges by the heroic and idealistic prrtiona of humanity,
then life in common will be prized again as much as ever. A
number of great things, such as science, will organize them-
selves in a monastic form. The splendid ideal! raced by the
author of the Acta shall be inscribed as a prophetic revela-
tio i over the ent ance of the paradise of humanity; ‘ All that
believed were together, and bad all things common; and
sold their possessions aad goods, and parted them toalunen,
as everyone had need. And breaking bread with one accord,
they ate their meat with gladness and singleness of heart.' ”
“ Whenever we buy, or try to buy, cheap
goods—goods offered at a price which we know
cannot be remunerative for the labour involved
in them—remember we are stealing somebody’s
labour. Don’t let us mince the matter. I say, in
plain Saxon, stealing—taking from him the proper
reward of his work, and putting it into our own
pocket. The old barons of the middle ages used,
in general, the thumbscrew to extort property;
we moderns use, in preference, hunger, or domestic
affliction; but the fact of extortion remains pre
cisely the same. The fierce baron and the re
doubted highwayman are reported to have robbed
at least by preference, only flu roh ; we steal
habitually from the poor. The calloua indifference
which pursues its own interests at any cost of
life, though it does not definitely adopt the purpose
of sin, is a state of mind at once more heinous and
more hopeless than the wildest aberrations of un
governed passion.”— John Ruskin.
There is some talk of establishing a utw
evering paper in Melbourne, while the Irish party,
misrepresented as they are at present, have long
talked c£ bringing out another morning daily.
A good constable is the result of careful
education, and, in particular, he wants to bo
trained in giving evidence, so that when be goes
into the box his words may carry conviction both
to the Bench and the prisoner. The chances that
an ill-trained constable throws away are too
numerous to count For instance, a member of
the Queensland foorce got into a swimming bath
the other day, and was rather roughly handled by
some larrikins, who didn’t recognise the majesty
of the law when it hadn’t any clothes on. Next
day he brought them up for assault, and from
sheer force of habit he also charged them with
“ tearin’ me uniform.” Then he was asked if he
bathed with his uniform on, and it dawned on
him that a glorious case had been utterly fooled
away by a staunch adherence to routine, and by
that painful want of originality which is the bane
of a noble profession.
Even a gibbering, chump-headed bagman
who doesn't know enough to keep his foot out of
a pail, can drive a good trade when he becomes a
Minister. Not long since part of an Australian
Cabinet was making a progress through the
colony, and the Secretary for Things in General
sold tea all along the route, and made almost
every purchaser of six half-chests a J.P. He
even left in the middle of a banquet to go and sell
tea, and when the party stopped at a hotel he
would dispose of groceries to the host, and when a
deputation called on him he would load them up
with sugar before they knew where they were, an d
when they were enterta'ned by some local mag-
nate he would take him aside and book an order
for soap, and altogether he had a good time.
One obdurate storekeeper, however, didn’t
want any grocery, so the Minister made him a
J.P. on spec., and then sent him a telegram of
congratulation, and asked if he thought he would
have some candles. He replied that he had been a
J.P. already for more than 12 years, and that he
was d d if he wanted any candles.
During his last “unexpected” visit (o
Parramatta Asylum, Parkes questioned each of
the inmates to discover if there were any com-
plaints. Of course there were none. The doctor
and matron were standing by. A New Zealand
missionary once introduced us to his prize Maori
Christian and the prize Christian’s daughter, a
rather pretty-looking little girl of 10, who had no
clothes on above her waist, and told us with a
glow of apostolic fervour that the poor little dis-
ciple never failed to attend church and Sunday-
school twice every Sunday, making four services
in all. We asked her if she liked having so much
religion and getting it so often, and she gave a
timid glance at the shepherd and another at her
truculent old pa, the last of a family of cannibals,
and assured us in broken English that she enjoyed
it above all things. Then her father, with an air
of pardonable pride, turned her round and showed
us the cuts on her shoulders where he had welted
her the week before when she told another en-
quiring stranger that she was almost tired of
going to church so much, and assured us with
Christian fervour that she wasn’t likely to do it
again. Judging from appearances, we concluded
he was right. There seems to us to L be some
similarity between these two little incidents,
somehow.
The Hon. William Wilson, of Fiji, fell
into a creek recently while crossing the wobbly
structure which the Fijian terms a bridge, and Ms
wardrobe suffered so much damage that he had to
march four miles in a borrowed loin-cloth amid
the whoops of the natives. This is unfortunately
the sort of incident which brings the system of
British Government into contempt. The average
statesman never looks well with a bit of calico
tied round his waist, and his inability to comport
himself with dignity inside that garment exposes
him to public derision. Parkes, for example, if
he were seen getting into a tramcar with a loin-
cloth, would inevitably be called on to resign next
day ; and Haynes, rising in a loin-cloth to explain
that Dibbs, sitting on the edge of his loin cloth,
was out of order, would probably be hauled out
and given to a Chinaman. The jovial, roly-poly
Jennings might possibly keep up his dignity under
such circumstances, hut even be, if sent for by a
Governor with only a towel round his waist, and
instructed to form a Cabinet without any shirt on
at his earliest convenience, would be apt to find
himself sinking ; and yet very few citizens appear
to recognise in these facta a proof of the utter
hollowness of the institutions by which we are
governed. The Australian aboriginal is as good
a man without his clothes as with them—prob-
ably even better—but if the Australian politician,
who looks down on the aboriginal, were asked to
step right out of his shower-bath and pass a bill,
he would be voted out in one act, and would
probably go home in the bottom of a cab with his
bill gammed over his head to conceal his identity.
There is a deep moral in this somewhere, but we
will have to go to bed to think it oat.


f / k 11. T JJr m w/c fl <
fs
I?
\ S<^ ZfT 1
PaOO^cK
<?ec 4J- £-
/?Aci<
/ r:
liv Wt
■f" we ns
VY| l; i'
\ j°l A (jl/K. *
Sketches at Randwick,—By Phil May.


■rfl Arn/ r / f
7?. y' , « S rei</*e.- ; ®W« ' coi*"-"/
re, if* ■
,oi ‘ ' 9
4 4.S*. '/< -"•'•■ '•'■ / * 7
~ «.// .” /*
mil I fff , f
y' jje *9 u '
-K.
r L at: 9
fl
CR^A 7^
I
_ 6"” '
Till' 9L ,
Q<. >•''
J.'A ;
a- ' . <c s
,1 t> r
c'7 I I)')
,i.‘ J -l
Cr ‘" } V
df
sd
The Crank Season.


We like a man with a hobby, and although it may appear
to us ludicrous, it is to him perhaps the only thing worth
living for. We accompanied such a man into Gsorge-street
opposite the Joint Stock Bank, and to see the real pleasure
he derived in critically admiring the hand-painted plates
made us wish for a keener sense in the appreciation of the
beautiful. It is unnecessary to mention more than to say
the crockery defies description, and Beay Beos' genera
display is unequalled in Sydney.*
FRECKLES.
These unfcight'y subcutaneous discolorations are of two
kinds—the “Summer ”o' temporary freckles (Ephelis ) and
the permanent variety (Lentigo) The former is generally
due to a da-keniog of the epidermis in small oval ca'chea
(“ Summer Freckles”), or contending over a larger surface
(“Tan or Sunburn”), while permanent Freckles (or Lentigo)
are deeper seated, and remain even after the epidermis is
removed. Clements' Freoklebane is an invaluable cure, and
will eradicate the worst case of Freckles without injuring the
skin or complexion. Sold by all chemists : Wholesale, I'.
M, Clements, 141 King-street Newtown.*
Ladies would do well to attend the great sale of the season
now on at the London and Paris Outfitting Establishment
Mrs. MoOaibix, 86 and 90 King-street.*
There is to be a swell affair next week over the opening of
the Exhibition Rooms of the Moldooot Sewing Machine Co.,
jn George street. This is because the thing happens to be an
English invention upon which royalty has smiled and the
London sassiety papers have heaped praises.*
Society
were staying, and a certain noble lord was in the
act Of offering a candlestick to the princess as she
was retiring up the stairs. The maharajah, at
this moment, stuck his foot in the way of the
noble lord, tripped him up, and sent him and the
candle flying. Such a gross piece of misbehaviour
was probably never before known, and the j ustly
incensed nobleman “went for” Dhuleep Singh
like a bull-dog, as soon as he got him into the
billiard-room It was with difficulty that Dhuleep
was rescued from his assailant.
* *
Chief Justice Higinbotham, of Victoria,
was seen leading a blind beggar across Latrobe
street, Melbourne, a little while ago. One day
the late Justice Sir Redmond Barry saw a blind
man standing at a corner waiting to get someone
to pilot him across the street. The gallant and
good-natured knight, in soft, melodious accents,
volunteered his services. “ Oh, no, thank you,”
said the sightless man, deprecatingly, “ I'll wait
till some gentleman is passing.” And yet Lady
Barkly—Heaven forgive her for the slander !
said that Sir Redmond was the only gentleman
she had met in Victoria.
* * *
“Why do the heathen so furiously rage
together ?” Because of the rum and the mis
sionaries ?
* * *
Mr. Henniker Heaton, M.P., has been pre-
sented with “the freedom of the N.S.W. Parlia-
mentary library and refreshment-room.” That's
always the way. When a fellow has lots of
money, and can buy enough liquor to “ sle w ” an ele ■
A Sydney D.T. correspondent pathetically
asks why some freehanded friend didn’t pay Lord
Loftus’a little bills, and prevent “the disgrace
that always attaches to the publicity ” of an aiis-
tocrat’a insolvency. That correspondent has a lot
to learn. Apparently he is unaware that a lot of
Sydney admirers of English aristocracy did devo* e
their little cheques for various thousands to the
work of straightening up his impecunious Excel-
lency. He is possibly ignorant of the fact that
the noble one pawned bis high-born dignity for
the dollars of vulgar tallow-boilers and whisky-
founders. And it would possibly surprise this
pained correspondent to learn that Her Majesty
was graciously pleased to confer certain magic
letters upon now distinguished individuals to
whom the Hon. Gus. owed quite a little pile of
money. All these things may be news to the
D.T. man, hut they are d J sgustingly and disgrace-
fully true all the same.
* * *
It is a painful circumstance that most cf
the nice little girls we know end by marrying
elderly wrecks with dotty legs and lots of coin.
The well-groomed little Australian f ms doesn t
believe in love in a cottage. Bu h ,„as a rule, she
has the grace to be ashamed Oi the battered
curiosity vhich she has taken for better or worse,
and this we hold to be a good trait in her
character. And here our story commences. In a
Northern distiict of N.S.W. there hangs out an
ancient party who, by hard Dullocking for sixty
years or thereabruts, has acquired a “pile, 1 and
some lime ago he invested part of it in the pur-
chase cf a little wife, aged 20, and to seme extent
recognised by sassiety in Sydney. Poor girl, she
would be a good deal happier if the old man
wouldn't blow his nose en ihat dreadful, big, red
handkerchief wh n they are out driving the heir-
loom of a mule, and now and then she attempts to
suggest that her husband might speculate in some-
thingnicerthantheiruglyone-horseshay; butwhen
she talks like this he always starts a long story of
how he smarted life in 1851 with two bullocks, and
howoneof them died of foot and-meuthdisease, and
rather than hear the end of that yarn she changes
the subject. Sometimes she is Policed to think
the old man has fcot-and-mouth disease himself,
for he is gouty at one end and 1 e jaws incessantly,
with a slow, nasal, “ h”-less snuffle, at the other.
But this is a digression. The other day they
were out as usual, and she wes endeavouring to
impart celerity to the funereal quadruped ahead,
when a drag hove in sight, and in it she recog-
nised several of her most high-toned friends from
Sydney, Then she appealed to her lord and master
to put his old billycock straight on head,
and for Heaven’s sake to sit up and stop blowing his
noseonthe red handkerchief, andinher nervousness
she drove the old heirloom into a stump and
brought about a general capsize just as her
friends came alongside. When they got down to
assist they found her kneeling in tears by the side
of a badlj-scratched old man, and driving his hat
down on his head —but, alas 1 she was too late to
hide the fact that he hadn’t a single hair on the
place where the wool used to grow. His wig had
blown away, and when he got up the poor little
soul was compelled to introduce a totally bald,
goggle-eyed, foolish-looking object; as her husband.
I 'or a moment she contemplated the possibility of
assing him off as the handy man, hut he nipped
hat scheme in the bud by his apologetic obser-
ation, “Me and the missus has ’ad a bawful
pill." She got him away just in time to prevent
im growing communicative, and relating a few
iteresting facts about his early life, hut it will be
0 years and more before she forgets the incident.
* * *
At a Sydney dinner-party. Lady (addressi-
ng a barrister next her) ; “Are you a Crown
kosecutor?” The learned counsel (who has not
[uite caught her remark) : “No ; I am almost a
eetotaller.”
* * *
There is a lady now in Sydney who has
>ften danced with Bishop Moorhouse, late of
Melbourne, but now with £4200 per annum at
Manchester. Not that Dr. Moorhouse used to
ndulge in the mazy waltz or somnolent quadrille
)f late years. No, it was at a Ladies’ school
lancing lesson, where little Jimmy Moorhouse was
juch a good dancer that all the girls ussd to try to
Set him for a partner. Ah! how much we do
,ose as we grow older. Moorhouse wasn’t a
aishop then.
* * *
Many will remember that, a few years ago,
the pretty Miss Stephens, daughter of Colonel
Stephens, of Tasmania, became the Countess of
Donoughmore. Affairs have not gone well with
the young couple, and, the other day, the
Donoughmore mansion, at Palmerston, near Dub-
lin, passed out of the hands of the family and was
converted into an asylum for idiots-among
whom, we may remark, is to he numbered every
colonial girl who marries the typical English
alleged nobleman while she has the remotest out-
side show of marrying an honest stonebreaker.
» * •
Papers moved for by Dr. Creed in the
N.S.W. Council show that a “deficiency" of
£1252 6s. lOd. was discovered in the accounts of
L. 0. Baynes, paymaster of the N.S.W. Defence
Forces. Sydney D T., having summarised the
contents of the document, says: “After being
allowed a considerable time to go through the
accounts, he (Baynes) was allowed to pay the
amount of the deficiency into the Treasury .”
* *
It is not generally known that the down-
fall, in a social sense, of Dhuleep Singh, about
whom we have of late read so much in the cable-
grams, was due to a monstrous trick he played
some fourteen years ago. It was in a country
house where the Prince and Princess of Wales
“ OUT OF THF MOUTHS OF BABES,” &c.
BUSH MISSIONARY (to selector's hopeful heir) : “MY LITTLE BOY, CAN YOU TELL ME
WHAT THE GOOD SHEPHERD DOES WITH STRANGE SHEEP WHEN HE FINDS
THEM GOING ASTRAY ? ”
LITTLE BOY (scorning the B. M s ignorance): “WHY, HE FAKES THEIR EAR-MARKS,
AND BOXES ’EM UP WITH HIS OWN MOB, OF COURSE.’
phant anytime he likes, he is presented with the I
freedom of a bar ; but if he is hard up and has a
thirst that would make him sell his best friend for
a pot of beer with a mouse in it, do you think
any kind soul will offer him the run of a shebeen,
even ? Not much.
* * *
According to latest researches, the
historic personage commonly known as “ Blue-
beard ” had not a blue beard. On the contrary,
he had a long red beard. He was a public nuisance
in his time : he used to shadow little girls round
dark corners, and brutally leer at every woman
who passed him in the street.
«* * «
During an intoxicating waltz at a recent
fancy-dress ball for the insane, given at Glades-
ville Hospital, a radiant masher from Sydney,
who was conducting the Queen of Sheba through
the mazy convolutions of the “Blue Danube,”
was rather astonished at Her Majesty’s coming to
a dead stop and disengaging his arm from her
waist. “Do you feel ill?” he enquired. Her
Majesty, with a regal wave of the hand, resented
his plebeian curiosity, and then suddenly asked
with an eagerness not at all consistent with her
majestic position, “Have you seen my new petti-
coat ?” He protested that he did not want to see
it, but the Queen of Sheba was not going to be
put off in that way, and, notwithstanding our
masher's furious blushes, she proceeded to display
the Imperial purple garment with a truly gener-
ous prodigality. Her Majesty was an inmate.
The Duchesse d’Abrantes, reasonably pmud of htr
gorgeous shin-casings, insisted upon her partner
inspecting her new red stockings, although they
could hardly compare for ruddiness of hue to the
young man’s cheeks. She had her way, however,
notwithstanding. Her Grace was also an inmate.
* # •
Mr. Shiels, the good-looking barrister of
Victorian Divorce Amendment Bill celebrity, is so
fortunate as to be the husband of a wife who
would be a charming woman even if she did not
possess a fortune of £120,000. But now we come
to think of it, what a nerve Shiels must have to
play with fire in this way 1
* * *
Mrs. Mawhinney, wife of the sergeant in
charge of the Melbourne city lock-up, is the
female searcher, and when she was giving evi-
dence, the other day, an over-inquisitive or over-
conscientious juryman thought it would be a good
opportunity to get some information as to how
girls are searched. Chief Justice Higinbotham,
who tried to look stern, kindly allowed the ques-
tion, and the court hung on Mrs. Mawhinney’s
lips as unfalteringly and undauntedly she told her
little story. Her modus operandi is to cause the
fair suspects to reduce themselves to an Eve-like
condition. Then they have to skip about and let
down their ambrosial locks so that no coin, bul-
lion, or sheafs of notes may remain hidden in the
glittering tresses, and when all the treasure
is discovered, silk and sealskin can be donned
again. What a change from chicken, champagne,
and preux chevaliers to Mrs. Mawhinney and
the cold cells ; and what a delightful ordeal to go
through on a cold, frosty night—the cell in which
the operation takes place being unprovided with a
Are I It transpired that whether they hand
over the plunder or not, the nymphs are still
searched.
* * *
The way of the transgressor in N. S.W, is
sometimes hard, Mary Ann Goodwin was charged
with stealing a cauliflower, valued at 8d., from
the shop of W. Quing Young, in the George-street
Markets, Sydney, and was sentenced to six
months’ hard labour. Nothing is calculated to
give so much pleasure to the right-minded man as
the Arm and unflinching administration of the
law.
* * •
They were nice girls both, and they frisked
1 into a Melbourne light-refreshment emporium for
I a cup of tea, because it’s so reviving when you’ve
been out walking all the afternoon and feel so tired
that you are ready to drop, my dear. There was a
weird, peculiar look about the Souchong, which
those nice girls didn’t exactly like. So they paid
the contract price for their poison and elected tc
leave it for the next two females who might be
feeling tired. Then did the presiding goddess
chuck the mysterious contents of one rejected cup
over the startled maidens. They were so scalded,
poor things 1 you can’t think, but as Pa intends
to take proceedings against that nasty, spiteful
bun-shop woman, further comment would be
improper.
There is an Australian R.C. prelate, whom
we shall call Paul, and he has living at “ the
Palace” with him a cleric who is a bit of a
“ society ” man, likes a game of whist, and plays
the violin divinely. Ten p.m. is the time for
locking up the Palace and putting out the lights,
but the sociable curate is often not up to time,
Paul lately came to know this, and ore night re-
cently sent Mick the servant to bed, and stayed
up himself. At 10.65 the musical curate gently
tingled the door-bell and presently was admitted
in the dark by the trusty Michael (as he sup-
posed). “Is Paul in bed yet ? ” familiarily asked
the curate in an under-tone. “ No, Paul is up
still and going about,” meekly replied a gentle
voice which the benigh f ed curate recognised as
that of the Most Rsv. Paul himself. If you now
a*k that curate at 9.10 pm.to “ have his re-
venge,” or to play the “ Carnival 2 de Yenise^ —
well you’d better not.
* ♦
Ex-Justice Sir Robert Molesworth, of
Victoria, had countless wards, widows, and
orphans, whose Interests he had to protect. One
day there was a case before him where Mr. Hoi-
royd, Q.C , was for the widow, Mr. Stephen for
the children under age. Mr. Bunny for the chil-
dren who had attained their majority, Mr. Gold-
smith for the sisters of the testator, Mr, McKinley
for his cousins, Mr. De Vefdon for the aunts, and
Mr. Topp for God knows whom. Ho’rord was
expatiating on the value and importance of a cer-
tain proposed disposition of the property, which he
urged would be for the be edt of the widow and.
children. “ Misther Holroyd,” said old Moley,
getting very red in the fu cs and bending over the-
be nch, ‘ I don’t see how it can be for the benefit
of the widow and orphans to have eight learned
counsel here to-day.” (Sniff, sniff, sniff).
. • * *
Inspector Pewtres o , of Melbourne (who
before his promotion, was for 20 years sergeant in
charge of the city watchhouse) was married for
seventeen years and had no children. At length
about twelve years ago, he decided to adopt an
infant girl. He was very proud of the youngster
and used to show her about a good deal. A year
after this adoption an heir was born to the house
of Pewtress, and a little stranger has come regu-
larly every year since. The inspector tells this in-
cident in his varied and chequered life to his
friends as a social phenomenon of which he is
not dissatisfied to be the hero.
* * *
AT THE HOTEL.
(A. Memory ok Gunsler’s.)
The tall, long dining-room is filled
With figures all in white;
The punkahs swing ; the breeze comes in
From sea, and hills, and night.
At my small table, all alone,
I sit, and eat, and sip ;
And surely this is not amiss,
After that dreary ship.
Then suddenly I stop, and seem
To see another place
I seem to see them bent to me,
Your eyes, your lips, your face I
And all the little scene comes back,
In melody and scent —
That dinner, sad yet sweet, we had
The night before I went!
Francis W, L. Adams,
Hongkong.
* * *
Sydney suburbs are the fixed abode of un-
godliness, and anyone who wants to assure him
self of the fact need only saunter around quietly
on the evening of the sacred Sabbath. He will
notice that pedestrians go past houses whence
emanate the soothing strains of “ Almost Per-
suaded” quicker than a cyclone, but flow down
and stop awhile when they come opposite an
abode where the damsels are playing “ Mikado,”
or singing the seductive “Ri tooral,” &c. This is
a grievous fact, hut it is too, too sorrowfully true.
Ungodly music on Sunday night makes a house
more popular than anything—except perhaps the
carelessness of boarding-school beauties in omit-
ting to haul down the window-blinds.
• * *
In the Sydney Public Library if you only
remove a book from a shelf and read the title-
page you are required to place it on the “ central
table.” Fancy a book-worm like David Blair, of
Melbourne, or Cardinal Newman, spending a
couple of hours in the Sydney Library ; what
cart-load of assorted literature would be found
the “ central table ” when he had left! There is
no such rule in the Melbourne Public Library, and
a book is stolen or mutilated there about once in
five years.
* * *
Cardinal Moran hopes that in future the
scandal of having public-houses next door to
churches will be avoided. He is quite right.
Church bells and church music drive heaps of
trade away from a decent public house.
* * - ' #■
A double-barrelled idiot, who conceals his
shame under the nom deplume of “ Emu,” writes
to the Melbourne Herald about the long-felt
want of Dragoon Guards or Hussars for Victoria.
He even suggests turning Sydney Lancers into
Australian Lanosrs and raising contingents over
SONG.
To Mv LADY.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
V. J. D.
When the tender hand of Night
Like a rose-leaf falls
Softly on thy starry eyes,
Veiled with velvet palls,
And the gate of dreams is wide.
Wide the painted balls,
Dream the dream I send to thee.
Through thy spirit’s walls!
Dream a lowly lover came,
Lady fair to woo,
Dream that I the lover was,
And the lady—you ;
Dream your answer was a kiss,
Warm as summer-dew—
Waking, in the rosy dawn,
Let the dream be true !


The Moldocot Sewing Machine, about which the London
newspapers have been laying of late, and whereof Wales is
an enthusiastic patron, is about to be to the
Hydney public- Ihe company have taken Show Rooms near
Palines'in George-street, and soon we shall be able to see
Mhat the Timts calls "the most wonderful outcome or the
mechanical genius of our epoch.' *
the whole surface of our Sunny South. Dash it all’!
N.S.W. will sell the Lancers cheap to Victoria, and
let that colony add to their number till further
orders, on condition that N.S W. is quit of such
pomps and vanities for all time. It is certainly
true, as “Emu” says, that “such a regiment
provides work for blacksmiths, corndealers, and
others.” But they might as well float an Elephant
Corps in the interests of the rice-trade. Lancers,
orsooth! Marry come up ! Grammercy ! Odds
bodds I We want no more of them.
* * *
9 hus the Chicago Mail on the Queen’s last
drawing-room : -
“ Her gracious Majesty receive! another batch of Ameri-
can female toads yesterday at her weekly barebacked ex-
hibition.
, Barebacked exhibition” is excellent.
* * •
It is related that when one of the Chinese
in attendance on the Chinese Commissioners who
lately visited Australia caught fight of the Mel-
bourne cable tramways ho was so dumbfounded
that he confided to General Bung Hi bis senti-
ments : “No pullee, no shnvee. Him debbel I ”
* * *
There are fourteen fortune-tellers publicly
practising in Melbourne, as well as ore prophet of
mysterious aspect who travels from town to town.
One firm of soi-disant French clairvoyants adver
tise themselves as “ Madames” A. and B.
Hardly Parisian French, this.
* * *
“He had had a good deal of debt ex-
perience for 36 years, but had never had to resort
to the bazaar or fancy fair, and, please God, never
would.” This from a Church of England parson
(at Richmond, Victoria). Chalk it up forthwith
—as forthwith as possible! There is really ons
parson who has a chance of getting to Heaven,
after all!
« * •
Over in Melbourne lately at one of those
sacred gambling frauds, better known by tbs
pious euphemism of “a church bazaar,” one of the
tableaux vivants exhibited, under the title “ The
Secret of England’s Greatness,” represented an
obese German lady with a fat simuer, in the act
of handing a Bible to a godless but respectable
looking savage, who kneels in all but nude condi-
tion at her f set. How's this for the thunders of
Church v. Ballet ?
* » •
The quality came before 9 o’clock to thj
Mayor of Me'bourne’s last bad, and the fun—we
have it on the authority of a lady who was there
—“ broke hup burly.”
* * *
Bitterness of spirit obtruded Pself into
Mayor Cain’s latest revelry at Melbourne To vn
Hall. All the lions—including Loch and his Ld ,
the Earl of Buckinghamshire, the inevitable
“ suite,” the Ministry, and the Town Councillors
—fed in a private cage, and left the lower animals
to scramble for refreshments among their own
vulgar selves The general feeling of the meeting
was against this new arrangement, and while the
extra special “nobs” were punishing the sacred
chicken in exclusive contentment, there was much
gnashing of teeth away in the outer darkness.
Mayor Cain ought clearly to understand that you
cannot please God and Mammon in a job like that,
* * *
Never go into a mine ssithout first obtain-
ing the opinion of an expert. Some time ago one
of that numerous clan reported most unfavour-
ably on the Broken Hill country. He no doubt
believed what he said, for his brother, to whom a
seventh of the Broken Hill claim was under offer
for two solid months for £240, finally declined to
purchase. That seventh is now worth more than
half a million sterling !
* * *
The Jews of Melbourne have not forgiven
the fixing of the Mayor’s Ball for the night of
Wednesday, the 28th ult. That being the Day of
Atonement, no orthodox Jew could attend, and as
a natural consequence the daughters of Zion
wept and refused to be comforted. The children
of Israel may have their revenge next year, how-
ever, because Alderman Benjamin, the mayor-
elect, can have his ball on a Sunday. And
besides, they can, and probably will, have their
revenge in a variety of other ways, which need
not be specified here.
* * *
It was at “ Henry Y.” She said, “ There
are a great many married people here to-night.”
Said he: “Ah I how do you know?” Said she:
“ Oh, because the men are mostly all talking, and
the women have no corsage bouquets.” By the
way, she wasn’t married herself.
♦ * *
It came out in a Sydney suburban court,
ast week, that some fashionable local dressmakers
are in the habit of lending their fair customers
reasonable sums of cash at the rate of 7 per cent
per month and charging same as “dress materials ’
in the husband’s bill. Not leng ago a certain
well-known Sydney dressmaker happened to be-
come aware that a prominent lawyer had paid a
pretty long millinery bill on behalf of a lady who
was not his wife. Tqus havieg the husband in her
power, she turned the information to excellenttrada
account by so manipulating his wife that the
latter, a most extravagant woman, ran up with
her a bill for £I3OO, which the lawyer dared not
refuse to pay. And now that an open row hai
come, the domestic affairs of that husband and
wife are to be ventilated in the Dirorce Court,
thanks chiefly to the benign agency of the dress-
maker.
* * •
Mr. H. B. Solomons, of Armidale, photo-
grapher, has been taking Parkes’ nob'e bust by
the aid of the sun, which is rough on the sun.
Sir Henry writes to state that “ the one with the
arms folded, and the one leaning on a chair with
pointed finger, areheaufi'ulphotographic pictures,
and true likenesses,” though how they can bs
both beautiful and true is not clearly explained.
The Bulletin artist, however, is going to exert
himself to clear up this point.
• * •
Australia now boasts quite a number of
baronets. The one who has most rec?ntly come
to the surface is a lucky and pleasant-mannered
gentleman who for a short space r coupled the
dignified position of Crown Lands bailiff, and
therein gave not too much satisfaction to the
Government of his bleeding country. He has
married an heiress, and lives in clover, and is, on
the who’e, a much more lucky parsonage than his
father, the late baronet, who, poor old gentleman,
honourably ebo 1 out a precarious existence by
means not unconnected with the sale of theatre-
checks. The son is popular, and having, as above
indicated, had a rough schooling in this beastly
democratic country, he knows how to behave
himself like a gentleman, and is popular accord-
ingly.
• • •
At the Permanent Way employees’ sports
at Botany last week, there was a race for ‘ bona
fide wives of employees.” Never before have
modern social conditions been looked so straight
in the face.
* * *
The S. M. Herald seems to have finally
made up its mind about the modern music-master.
Says its Newcastle correspondent:—
*' A ahocking story has been circulated in this city to the
effect that a young girl about 14 years of age has been for
some tim; frequseti g the house of a married man in the
neighbourho and of OjoK's Hill, Newcastle, for music lessons."
A sentence like the foregoing would be spoilt by
comment
• * *
There is an Articled Clerks’ Association
in Sydney, a sort of sucking lawyers' debating
club. At an early meeting they will decide the
important question, “ Which is the I°es objec ion-
able policy—to steal £60,000 of trust funds, or to
sdfs
fA
(2) ,
&
® 0 \
%
<s>
& /,
fsl_£sS /t>d Y C'Hil OiTtzt/',
work the confidence trick on a liberal commish ?”
In fight of recent events many members will pro-
bably decide in favour of both.
• * *
Out West, where kangaroo scalps are
worth 9d. and wallaby scalps 3d, each, a man
strolled into a pub. and called for his “ pizen.”
Having surrounded it he planked down a kan-
garoo scalp in payment and asked for the charge.
The landlord fetched a wallaby scalp which he
threw at his customer with the remark : ‘ • There’s
your d change I”
* * *
Mrs. Mai Ap., of “the Point,” was eulo-
gisirg her eldest hern's extraordinary mental
abilities and wound up her remarks with “ I can
assure you, my dears, that my Edward has quite
surpassed even my most ardent expectorations of
him.”
* * *
Dear Bulletin, —When Cardinal Moran
came to Australia almost the first step he took
was to forbid the holding of any ball in aid of any
R.C. institution, and the Sisters of Charity were
ordered to discontinue the annual ball in aid of
Sc. Vincent’s Hospital. Yet when his Eminence
learned at the end of the year that the revenue of
the hospital showed a deficiency of nearly £6OO as
the result of his prohibition he promptly cancelled
his order, and allowed the entertainment to take
place with his full permission. Now if there is
anything wrong about a ball, I would be glad to
know if a £6OO shortage turns that wrong right? -
Inquisitive.
♦ ♦ *
Relations are strained at Tarago (N.F.W.),
and the soulfulness of things no longer takes pi too
as it used to was. Circumstances don’t corn 's
as they ought, and nice tenths of the people hv e
ceassd to speak as they pass by. The trouble
arose out of the goings-on of a policeman moving
In the best circles. This gentlemaa helped to
organise a ball, at which it was intimated that to
servants would he admitted, but just ai the
nobility of Tarago were enjoying themselves in
their own aristocratic way, they were floored, eo
tospeak.by the housemaid’s assistant at the public
house, who stalked in and glared around with a
paralysing snort. The el itc of the district gazsd on her
withhorror, but when she walked heavily through a
quadrille set, and shoved against the bank clerk,
and sniffed at the policeman’s wife, they all rose
and left in confusion. Then the intruder eat
down and took a large mouthful of salad, but as
one of the leading botanists of the age had made
a mistake and compounded it out of chopped-up
ferns she made a face and left. Subse-
quently this gorgon went and organised a
slaveys’ ball, with an inscription on the cards,
“ No toffs admitted,” and she even let the police-
man know that be was not to come. Conse-
quently, as we have already remarked, the soul-
fulness of fhirgs no longer prevails at Tarago,
and the upper classes really don’t know what the
lower classes are coming to.
# ♦ *
Blinkxnson is a sugar-coated pill—a honey,
tongued, polite, gallant, polished woman-hater.
His gibe is like a piece of pine apple-sweet and
peppery. Arm-in arm with Barber de Pole, the
gorgeous Sydney Lanceah, he strolled past the
post office, on the side the carvings are not, just
in time to catch a glimpse of a certain charming
blue-skirted angel. “ Isn’t she a beauty 1 very
audibly said Blinkinson to his friend. The sweet
creature turned fiercely round, and with insolent
pertness bursting through every pore of her
heavenly skin, she glared at him defiantly, and
said -with 60-horse power potentiality of farinose,
“I wish I could return the compliment as to
beauty." “Ah ! ah ! ” said the gallant Blinkin-
son, “ You m'ght, and lie as I did.”
* * *
The residents at Rookwood (Sydney) are
cawing jubilantly over the change of the name of
their municipality to “ Balmoral." They are
already brayirg at Jackasi Fiat to have that
classic spot called “ Osborne.” It would plea-
santly remind them, you know, of the days when
they used to pick snails off the same cabbages
with tfce members of the Royal family, and thus
happily cement, &c , &o. (Vide any loyal address
from an infant school).
* * *
From Sydney E. News :
‘ i PATRIMONIAL, —Respectable young person, aged
29, Protestant, well domesticated and steady,
wishes to correspond with respectab e young man with
view to the above; open two days. Address H.D G.
G.P.0., Sydney.'
On l y two days open 1 Any fellow who comes
fo'ing around on the third day will probably find
her dead of old age.
We paid a visit to the Sunbeam
up North the other day, and were
asked for half-a-crown like the rest
of common and inqu'sitive humanity.
We sighed as we thought of five
drinks thus recklessly sacrificed,
and for a moment meditated resist-
ance, but a glance at the De
Bressi’s formidable-looking 32-pound-
ers decided us, and, remembering
that we were unarmed except with
our umbrella and a roll of rejected
mmuscrlpt, we paid and looked as
pleasant as possible under the cir*
cumstances. We were much struck
with the art of intel’ectual refine-
ment which pervades everybody or
board, from the cultured cook to tre
conciliatory captain, and observed
that the furniture and fittings of the
vessel were on a scale of magnifi-
cence seldom eeen on Balmain or
North Shore steamers Everything
connected with this ship is built on
sesthetic principles. The ways cf the
De Bressi’s mariners are not as the
wiys of other mariners, neither are
their thoughts, nor, ve may add,
is their language at all like the
thoughts or language of the typi-
cal tar. The trousers of Loi d Bras-
sey's crew are mostly made by Pcole,
and to ‘‘hitch” them or to dance
hornpipe’ in them would not only be
doing violence to the principles on
which they are constructed, but
would be solecisms which these po-
lished persons would be incapable of
committing. Rice is not called
“ strike me blind” in Lord Brassey’s
ship. •' Deprive me of the faculty of
ocular verification ” is the neat and
expressive euphuism employed when
any of the Sunbeam’s hands de-
sire to partake cf that farina-
ceous delicacy. “Squab pie” is a
vulgarity unknown to the fore-
ccastle chief, and salt-horse itself
become 3 etherealised when alluded
to as equestrian saline. Everyone
on board speaks at least 16 modern
languages. The quarter - master
speaks 32, the captain of the fore-
top 18, the carpenter 13, and the
steward 9, and thinks in three others.
The cook’s mate only speaks 3 and
is somewhat scouted on that ac-
count, but he is tolerated in consi-
deration of his high mathematical
attainments and consummate know-
ledge of ecclesiastical architecture
and church history. A person who
cannot speak languages would not be
allowed to holy-stone a deck in the
De Bressi’s ship, and even the cabin-
boy says his prayers ia Greek, The
recreations of the crew are as refined
as their manners are cultivated, and
'profanity is interdicted except in
early Assyrian or Arabic of the
Thirteenth Century. The De Bressi’s
tais are above superstition, and
Coleridge’s ancient mariner would
have been ignominiously expelled
from their society (albatross and all)
as a person too ignorant and com-
monplace to associate with a crew
saturated with modern science and
obscure German metaphysics. The
routire duties on board are carried
on with a display of courtesy and re-
finement rarely observed on an Orient
liner, or an Ameiican whaler, and
culture is considered as essential to
the navigation of the vessel as the
compass. “ Mr. So-and-So, I’ll
trouble you for that marlin-spike.”
“Kindly assist in hauling in the jib-
sheet, Mr. ,” “Oblige by step-
ping into the cross-trees, proceeding
to the lee yard-arm, and hauling out
the weather-earirg thank youl”
These are the sort of remarks that
greet the ear bo' h amid the roar of a
West Indian hurricane, and when
this floating millennium is reposing
on the glassy besom of a fashionable
harbour, and being exhibited to the
unwashed and uncultured at 2s. 6d.
per head. The voices of the
men are low and musical, and the
voices of the officers lower and still
more mufical. The degrading topsle-
halyard “shanty” of the vulgar
“ lime-juice r ” is never heard, it te’ng a
standing order that yards shall be braced
and hoisted, and the anchor heaved up to
to some fragment of an oratorio, or sonata, tne
watch sieging in parts to the accompaniment of
an iEolian harp. Altogether, ve were consider-
ably shaken up by our visit to the Sunbeam, We
even ceased to lament the expenditure of our
half-crown, feeling conscious that wo had ac-
quired at least eighteen penn’orth of refineotent
from a cultured fore-top man, and had taken out
the balance swapping Greek iambics with the
cook. We walked pensively homeward alorg
the Quay, and shuddered as we heard two
“lime-juice” sailors from a “wind-jammer” iust
anchored exchanging pleasantries in a language
that was modern, but not up to the Da Bressi’s
standard by the whole length of the Sunbeam’s
cable.
* * *
This gruesome advertisement appeared in
the Melbourne Age a short time ago : —“Lost, in
St. Kilda or Prahran districts, a medical diary.”
We don’t know who the owm r was, tu ■, he must l
in consequence of his loss, Lave missed a number
of engagements—with undertakers.


Mr. J. Mxley Harding, late a shareholder
in and managing director of The Bulletin Co. 1
left by the R.M.S. Zealandia yesterday for
America, the land of his birth, where we trust a
prosperous future awaits him.
Messrs. T. Williams and Go’s, boot pre-
mises, 278, George-street, Sydney, appear to be
about the largest of the kind in this colony. We
dropped iu there the other day to get our soles re-
paired, and the proprietor, who seemed to know
us somewhere, trotted us round through e ' '
rinth of boots till we grew dizzy, and quite
what we had come for. lie lost a half
i laby-
forgot
-crown
A NEW DISCOVERY.
Hoffman’s Eucalyptal (mixture and injection) positively
cures all urinal and kidney complaints, inflammation,
gravel, lumbago (pains in the back), &c. Purely vegetable.
Contains no balsam (paiba), or sandal wood. All principal
druggists and storekeepers. Price, 2s. 6d. and 3s. 6d. Take
no substitute.*
RITKRION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon
SECOND SECOND
WEEK, WEEK,
and phenomenal success of
W. J. HOLLOWAY’S SPECIAL PRODUCTION
OF SHAKESPEARE’S BEAUTIFUL
COMEDY,
TWELFTH NIGHT
TWELFTH NIGHT.
The most elegant and perfect production ever
essayed in Sydney.
MISS ESSIE JENYNS
as
VIOLA VIOLA.
W. J. HOLLOWAY as MALY OLIO.
Theßox Plan at Nicholson’s music warehouse.
Bus. Manager for W. J. Holloway, W. H. Manning
MONTY BROWNE, Manager.
Her ma j esty 's the atrb.
Sole Lessees Messrs. Rignold and Allison.
Doors open 7. ; Performance 7.15 ; Carriages 11,
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. GEORGE RIGNOID
in Modern Comedy and Nautical Drama.
ALONE AND BLACK EYED SUSAN.
Prices, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s and Co.’s.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
STANDARD THEATRE.
(Under our own management.)
Lessee and Director Mr. Frank Smith.
Manager, , Mr. J. Grant,
EMPHATIC
and
TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS
OF OUR MINSTREL SEASON,
Entitled Walsh and King’s
STANDARD MINSTREL AND BURLESQUE
COMPANY.
Remember our Prices.
DRESS CIRCLE, TWO SHILLINGS.
STALLS, TWO SHILLINGS.
PIT, ONE SHILLING.
Box plan at Bruce and Massey’s, Pitt-strect.
Carriages 10,30.
Canterbury races, Manly flower-show, the
opening of the cricket season, and other attrac-
tions brought the attendance at Sydney Lancers’ an-
nual chavoo downtoabout 7000 people, whoseemed
to enjoy themselves. The interest taken in the
jumping competition (won by Captain Weston, of
the Illawarra Light Horse, “Billy” Cope, with
his usual luck, being second) was so groat as to
induce the belief that it would be a splendid idea
for Premier Parkes to combine a huge amphi-
theatre with his Dead House, and hold a “ hippo-
drome” there every Saturday afternoon. On the
very rare occasions when the place wasn’t re-
quired for horse-jumping exhibitions it could
be let for prize-fights, and in either case
the dead could be buried on the premises.
The Naval Artillery Volunteers were awarded the
march-past prize, and the Royal Marines, who are
much bigger men than they look in uniform,
again were successful in the tug-of-war, after a
desperate contest with the Mittagong heroes. The
tent-pegging, lemon-cutting, and cavalry-mi 16e
events, however in eresting they might have been
to the contestants, caused little excitement among
the spectators, who, however, recognised that the
horsemanship, taken all round, was excellent. The
chief moral deducible from the afternoon’s show
is that the Lancers’ uniform, admirable as it
might be in connection with a circus, is a
lamentable failure from an Australian military
point of view, and that the volunteer cavalry
movement would be a thousand times more
popular if men were not debarred from joining in
it by a knowledge of the fact that they are ex-
pected to make fools of themselves by assuming a
dress utterly unadapted to modern conditions and
only good for over-awing the unsophisticated
niggers of Rum-t'.-Foo. Whenever we see a
Lancer in full rig, he somehow reminds us of
King Solomon and the Queen of Sheba, whom
we saw popping into a cab from a
ham-and-beef shop on the occasion of a recent
Sydney fancy-dress ball. Saturday afternoon’s
turn-out served to display the latest feminine
fashion in hats, which consists of a hideous cir-
cular mob-cap straw affair calculated to make the
angels weep. Let us hope that this new head-
covering, the lace appendage to which recalls the
knotted pendant veil worn by the bushman in fly-
time, will never become popular-except, perhaps,
among moon-faetd ladies of 17 stone.
* * *
A pleasantly significant Jittle ad. from Fri-
day’s B. News :
“WANTED, Housekeeper by a single gentleman, to
take care ot house ; age not over 25 years. Apply
by letter, enclosing photo., to , grazier, .
The News is the same moral paper which has
lately turned its columns into a babymarket, and
which shrieks with delight when anybody is
hanged for insulting a “ perfect lady.”
* * *
At first we were inclined to laugh at the
N.S.W. Primrose League as an impotent sham.
But now that we see that to be a prominent mem-
ber thereof is the shortest way to a good Govern-
ment position over the heads of persons having
substantial prior claims to the appointment, we
have serious thoughts of joining in it ourselves.
* * *
The Manly Flower Show opened last week
without much portentous fuss. Lady Carington,
who looked charming in pale blue—the same
colour as our nose in winter time—yellow Suede
gloves, and a white, rough-straw bonnet, said
briefly, “Ladies and gentlemen, I have much
pleasure in declaring your beautiful flower-show
open,” and then it opened at once —in fact, it
couldn’t help itself. Also, the band tooted with a
great toot of “ God Save the Kaween,” and some-
body called for three cheers for Lady Carington.
There were eight stalls. In the main building
were the “ Manly,” presided over by Madame de
Kerioux and Mrs. Benbow, which displayed a
wealth of flowers, some in the form of roller-
skates, umbrellas, bonnets, as well as an “Arch-
bishop’s Cross,” a fetching structure, executed by
Mrs. Townsend Robey ; the “ Floradale,” by Mrs.
Sullivan, who exhibited a floral tea-ccsy and
a bicycle; the “Aquarium,” by Mrs. Evans, the
piece de resistance here being a miniature
bark hut with a harmless necessary cow feeding
in front; the “Woollahra,” by Mrs. Prendergast
and assistants, with floral crowns tied with the
Carington colours—bridal bouquets, floral fans,
and a cool fountain playing in the centre. This
stall was made the subject of much unfriendly
comment by reason of the “ phonetic” spelling of
its name “ Wcollarah.” In the fernery there were
the “ Holmesdale,” by the Mayoress of Manly and
Mrs. Hetherington; the “ Narrabeen,” by Mi s Kil-
minster ; the “ Darlinghurst ” (suggestive sobri-
quet!) by Mrs. Maher and Miss Ellwood, with the
papal colours and the papal keys conspicuous ; and
the “ Fairy Bower,” by Miss Donohoe, a worthy
retreat for Titania, Outside on the lawn there
was the Quong Tart stall—same old motto,
“Cup of tea and a scone, 6d.” Also a
structure, like a dissipated umbrella, where a fit
fulband assaulted “Euterpe” in several scales
during the day. Few patronised the lawn,
visitors preferring to stroll under the pretty
arches formed of actonotus and waratah, amongst
tree and other ferns—cool, plashing fountains and
singing canaries, with frequent glimpses of pretty
pirates with hands full of flowers, blackmailing
the passers-by, and endeavouring, with a perfect
witchery of words, to vend their blossoms. We
rise to say—calmly and with conviction—that the
Manly flower show, on opening day, was a success
as glaring as a Jubilee parasol.
An infirm old man down South the other
day was asked by a Lady Bountiful whether he
was married. “Well, no, I am not —at present,” was
whe reply, “but I have been, mum—yes, five times.
I’ve buried three wives in England and two here
—and three of ’em wos beauties! But,” added
the old fellow, “how can a man look out for a
missus when he’s laid up like this ’ere 2”
* * *
Acting Chief Commissioner Chambers—
a brother of Miss Lucy Chambers, by the way—
is still fining the young Melbourne policemen right
and left for not saluting him in the streets. As
this high and mighty official rarely appears in
uniform, he seems to think that he is hedged by
that divinity, which, the late Mr. William Shakes-
peare playfully remarked, forms as natural a
covering for a king as the Evenin’ Nooze does
for a pound of butter. Chambers perhaps thinks
that the f oorce ought to know him by his whiskers,
which, when we last saw them, were, we must
admit, most imposing appendages.
• * •
The native of the Flowery Land who
abjures the faith and the culture of his fathers to
learn the lore of the foreign devils, has but a poor
time of it in Melbourne. Mr. Hong Yi Chang
took academic honours at the Melbourne Univer-
sity some time ago, and now he is running a vege-
table cart at a dead loss. ‘ His scholastic training
has unfitted him to cope with his wily country-
men, and they despise him for his high-toned way
of talking, while his cabbagee possess no special
virtues or points to commend them to the haughty
Caucasian. The moral of this is that a man
should never go back on his Joss till his Joss goes
back on him.
* * *
The “Vag.” libel case, which turned to
an extent on the religious convictions of the late
King Thakombau, reminds us that soon after the
annexation of Fiji by Sir Hercules Robinson the
deposed monarch was invited, with his two sons,
Ratu Timothy and Ratu Joseph, to Government
House, Sydney. Upon descending to the break-
fast room one morning, Lady Robinson was horri-
fied to find the King and his two sons, without any
clothes on, demanding brandy from the paralysed
butler. This brought the visit of Fijian royalty
to Government House, Sydney, to an abrupt and
ignoble termination. Most black monarchs are
troublesome boar der s.
When King Tawhiao, of
New Zealand, was in
London three years ago,
he stayed at swell digg-
ings in Russell Square,
and on the very night
after his arrival made a
lot of ladies faint by
walking into the draw-
ing-room with nothing
but his shirt on to ask for
a match.
* 9 *
At the Melbourne
City Court, the other
day, Margaret Haye, a
young and pretty girl,
was charged by an old
and ugly Chinee, Chong
Gee, with having broken
his window. The wily
Chow repud iat e d all
former knowledge of the
defendant, but it was
proved that he and Mar-
garet had lived together
for some time, and that
she was the wife of a
South Australian MP.
This should be a warning
to mothers who wish to
marry their daughters to
colonial M’s.P.
# * *
Dear Bulletin, —A
word to your correspon-
dent, “Au Revoir.” He
seems particularly fav-
oured. I wish to know
if his female women kind
think they are as highly
blessed with male rela-
tives as he is with his
gunoids. He must know
that when marriage takes
place there is only one
flesh, consequently one
vote, and I don’t deny
him the privilege of being
called Mrs. Au Reyoir’s
husband, while she is off
voting and taking a fall
out of Larry Foley. In a
lower stratum of society
our friend will be mother
Au Revoir’s fed man,
Sally Au-R’s bloke, Biddy
Revoir’s bhoy, Poll Yoir’s chucker-out, &c. But,
mind you, the house must have a head. I deny
to no feme-sole (Scotch law expression), the privi-
lege of the franchise.—Yours solus, Hiram Auiff,
♦ * *
Lord Sampson Brass, or Brassey, or Ds
Bressi, as the case may be, received at Thursday
Island the usual cordial welcome which waits on
the glorified cats-meat man or the titled dog-
fancier in all parts of Australia. On arriving at
that Ultima Ihule of civilisation it was found
necessary to spend a few shillings in hiring a man
with a horse and cart and a tank to supply water
to the “yot,” otherwise it is difficult to imagine
what agonies of thirst Brassey might not have
undergone in his passage through Torres Straits
But just as the man was about to begin work a
local Government officer heard of the circum-
stance, and saved Brassey a little loose silver by
cancelling the contract and impressing the wa'er
police and the prisoners in the gaol to do the job
gratis. Consequently there is one colonist with a
horse and cart and a tank at Thursday Island who
declares that lords and officials are close-fisted
persons who won’t give a poor man a chance to
make a decent living, nohow.
* * *
Dear Bulletin, —A suggestion. Swagger
names have been given to places which were for-
merly known as So-and-so’s Swamp, Hill, Creek,
or Gully. Now, many of these pioneers are still
alive. Ought we not to run them into a yard
and “sculp” them 2 Perhaps the loftiest name of all
is “ Walhalla,” which means heaven. Where is
old Stringer! It used to be called Stringer’s
Creek. We want some busts for the vestibule of
Parkes' Deadhouse, and none could be more ap-
propriate than those of the class of men indicated.
I know one of the pioneers who is now Jimmy
Dux at a pub. I could get a cast of his phiz, for
a toddy.—Yours as usual, Scotty the W rinkler.
# » *
Every now and again the name of David
Blair appears at the bottom of a letter to the
Argus, to keep us acquainted with the fact that
there is one musty scholar in Australia. David's
latest infliction enlightens us as to the source of
two lines quoted by Mr. Andrew Lang in Long-
man's Magazine. Nobody cared a tinker’s curse
about those two lines, but David saw his oppor-
tunity to settle a question of no more public
interest that Juliet’s nurse’s deceased husband, so
he must need fire off nine lines of forgotten poetry
in an Argus letter. Dear old David’s mania for
airing his second-hand wisdom requires to be
summarily dealt with. Sometimes it is. During
a learned chin-tournament at a Liedertafel
“ smoke night,” the scholar cleared his throat and
said, “Come, let us sit at the feet of Bacon.”
And a heathen murmured, “ Yes, let’s have some
pig’s trotters.”
* * *
The Star of Bethlehem has turned up. It
now hangs almost over the site of Parkes’ Dead
Meat Establishment, and can be found by anyone
who is bogged in the Lachlan Swamp, if he only
gets the Insolvency Court in a line with the
Lunatic Asylum, and then takes the obtuss angle
of the Parliamentary refreshment-room. It is
about half-way between the Milky Way and the
Dog Star, and has a tired look about it as if it
had been racing i o get here in time for the Cen-
tenary. As far as can be judged, it seems to be
rather larger than an egg, and it is coming along
at a gallop.
• * *
They have some queer rules at the Mary-
borough (Q.) Club. Any member who doesn’t pay
up his liquor score within fourteen days after it
has been rendered is fined ten per cent, on the
amount.
* * *
At Auckland (N.Z.), one day last month,
the foreman of a jury who had been locked up for
some days made application for permission to
attend a performance at the local Opera House in
the evening. Judge Ward granted the required
permission, and the jury were marched through
the streets to the play-house in the presence of an
admiring populace.
* * *
Our heartrending narrative of Lord Drum-
mond—who tried to earn his own lining in
America, but perished in the process- was in-
correct in one particular. We stated that the
" /
k He
0 jv// (
$
A GOVERNOR’S GOVERNOR.
proud ncble offended his family by marrying
“ beneath ” him. As a matter of fact, Drummond
entered into partnership with the wife of some
other fellow.
* * *
The fashionable fragile maid who dandles
the fat pug round the “block” every afternoon
reminds us of a little anecdote told by Plutarch.
It appears that our late lamented friend, Mr.
Julius Cmsar. seeing some foreign lady visitors
carrying pet dogs along the Roman “ block,” sar-
castically inquired if the women in the land that
the strangers hailed from ever had any children.
* * *
A charity ball (in aid cf the Women’s
Refuge, Tempe, a branch house of the Good
Samaritan Institute), will be given in the New
I Masonic Hab, Sydney, on the evening of the 11th
inst.
* * *
The first anniversary dinner of the Sydney
Lithographic Society eventuates at the Masonic
Hall, Castlereagh-street, on the evening of this
Saturday, at 8 p.m.
* * *
An advertisement in a Launceston (Tas.)
paper solemnly warns all and sundry that “ people
will not be allowed to do up their own graves” in
the Catholic cemetery. Corpses disobeying this
mandate will doubtless have their money returned
to them and be unceremoniously thrown out.
POETRY: V. POULTICES.
The poet, who sings in a rapturous way
Of an idyll in green, or nocturne in grey,
To labour bears often a grudge ;
A bardess is seldom a dab at preserves,
Her flights with the Muses have shattered her
nerves,
At housework is rarely a drudge.
The Sappho who dabbles in rhythm and rhyme,
To dandle a suckling has scarcely got time,
Inspiration Is quenched by its cries ;
When penning a ballad, a sonnet, or ode,
The lightest of babes is a terrible load
To one who is soaring the skies.
What silv'ry-tongued seraph a bandage can tie,
Or settle the bed-clothes, or dressing awry—
Her soul at the contact repines ;
You can’t bring down Pegasus out of the clouds,
And lead him ’mong sick beds and curly-haired
v crowds,
Because he ain’t built on those lines.
Let the poetess sing when she feels i’ the vein,
Forgetting committee and doctors —her bane —
A diff’rent position she’ll grace ;
Some decent old soul, once a mother herself—
Not delicate china, but stout, homely delf—
Will suitably fill up her place.
The Referee
Some crumbs are this year falling from the
stable of rich man White.
* * *
Thera are three scoundrels working the
sweep swindle on the racecourses just now whom,
it is to be hoped, will come in for a bad half-hour
when the public one day “ drop ” to the swindle.
They attend the saddling paddock, and float a
pound sweep on every race. A takes down the
names, B folds the numbers, and 0 draws them
out of the hat. B fold? the three favourites dif-
ferently to the others, and when C draws each num-
ber he deliberately looks into the hat and picks a
marked paper when his, and his confederates’
names are called. Sweepiots should be on their
guard at future meetings around Sydney.
* * *
Whalebone won the Hurdle race at Flem-
ington on Saturday, to the disgust of his stable,
who fancied Oculist. But they made no mistake
in standing their speedy mare, Gardenia, for the
next event,
* * *
Canadian Hanlan wrote Englishman Innea
respecting Australians generally, and Beach and
Deeble in particular. Englishman Innes “ turned
dog” on Hanlan and showed it to Australian
Deeble, who in turn published it in the Sydney
Press. Who takes the cake 2
* * *
Jack Connor, having kindly reconsidered
his determination not to wrestle any more for six
months, will meet Gannon at an early date in
Sydney. It remains to be seen whether Sydney
will roll up to these Grteco-Roman exhibitions of
brutality in sufficient force to make it worth the
men’s while to do much choking. There is no de-
ception about that part of the business, whatever
suspicions are aroused concerning the final des-
tination of the. stake moneys, Connor’s second
complained that the match at Melbourne Exhibi-
tion was “sold,” but as blood trickled from
Connor’s ears during Cannon’s friendly hug, we
guess the public had their money’s worth. The
gore was genuine enough, anyway.
• * *
Are the Brisbane “ sports ” really in
earnest in offering o'd Ned Triokett £250 to
enable him to row a match with Hanlan on the
beautiful waters of the city of Sin, Sweat, and
Sorrow 2
* * *
The cut-throat principles of Sydney
Suburban Bicycle Club have not been a success
during the past season. They have closed their
rooms in town, and hope by strict economy, &c,,
&c.
* * *
The necessary funds have been raised to
send the Williamstown Eight to compete in th e
Adelaide Intercolonial Regatta. Judging from
their past performances, the race ought to he a
moral for them.
• * *
They say that Carlyon will be “White’s
best” in a few weeks time.
Bathurst claims the record pigeon-match
with 60 acceptances out of 87 nominations, for
stakes amounting to £5OO. Six divided, and in
the shoot-off “ Bylong,” of Bathurst, won by kill-
ing li without a miss.


Centrally
situated
, AND
ACCESSIBLE
TO ALL THE LEAOINC
BUSINESS
HOUSES
IN THE
CITY
DANIELLS IMPERIAL HOTEL
THE MOST COMFORTABLE
4>
SOUTH
OFTHE
EQUATOR
as
F
I
THREE MINUTES
DRIVE
FROM THE
RAILWAY
STATION
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
WITHALLTHE
MERCANTILE
HOUSES
BANKS&c
Private Suites with Luggage Room attached for the convenience of Ladies. Ladies’ Drawing-room, with a magnificent view of the Brisbane River and
One-Tree Hill, Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths. COMMERCIAL ROOM.
Gentlemen's Smoking, Reading, and Corresponding Boom. Ail letters and Telegrams applying for Apartments will receive prompt attention. C. H. DIXIE LL.
Thbatrb ro y a
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Mnsgrore.
Lessee, Mr. Sam. Lazar.
LAST NIGHT BUT TWO
L.
SILVER')
SILVER \
SILVER j
of
The
IKING
- KING
Iking,
Prices as usual.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s Hotel,
Alhambra music hall.
George-street, Hay market.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
CONGRESS OF NATIONS
EVERY EVENING
in
BRITANNIA’S BOWER.
The Wondrous Acrobats, The Trevo Brothers.
Have just joined the Company, Boneless,
Sinewless,
The Surprise of All.
POPULAR PRICES.
Orchestra chairs, 25.; Stalls. Is.; Balcony, 63,
LOOK OUT, LOOK OUT,
See programme in Saturday’s Dailies for Grand
Sacred Sunday Concerts in this Hall and the Sir
Joseph Banks, Botany.
(COLUMBIA ELITE SKATING RINK
J EXHIBITION BUILDING.
Under the distinguished patronage of his
Excellency the Governor,
LORD CARRINGTON,
and the Elite of Sydney.
A. N. RIDGELY, K. A. SKINNER,
Proprietor. General Manager.
Open to the public every afternoon and evening
and mornings for ladies, from 10 to 12, free.
The Largest Amusement Palace in the World.
Beautifully decorated and Brilliantly Illuminated
by Electric Light.
ATTRACTIONS EVERY EVENING.
SELECT MUSIC.
ADMISSION ONE SHILLING.
A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates wilLin the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
Classes now open. *
When in Sydney, w you miss Foley's you
HAVE !nOT BEEN THE CITY,
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, GOULBURN, N.S.W.
FIRST CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and others. Private sitting rooms,
ample rooms. JAMBS SIMONS, Proprietor.
G. STEVENSON
Has On Sale—
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS. CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c.
COOPERAGE
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market streets.
df
' ofjSydneij*
JENOLAN "CAVES:BLUE-MOUNTAINS,&
316XE0RCE SI between Hunter STaC.P.O*
-A-TTZEjUSTID
THE
Great Sale
AT
TENNYSON,
FACING THE CHAMPIONSHIP COURSE,
*arram >tta River,
NEXT SATURDAY, Bth OCTOBER,
At 3 p.m.
THE ONLY SALE NEXT SATURDAY.
In consequence of the numerous other attrac-
tions last Saturday many persons were precluded
from attending, consequently it was decided to
withhold the
CHOICEST LOTS
Until the Day After To-morrow,
SATURDAY, Bth OCTOBER,
When all can attend.
BATT, EODD, & PURYES
WILL THEREFORE SELL
on Tins
GROUND, at 3 p.m.
ON
SATURDAY NEXT,
Bth OCTOBER.
FREE SPECIAL STEAMERS
FROM
KING STREET
At 2.15 p.m.
FREE TICKETS,
LITHOS, PAMPHLETS, &c„
Can be obtained from the Auctioneers,
BATT, RODD, & PURYES, 88 Pitt-strbkt,
From
MR F. VILLENUBRE-SMITH,
Solicitor to the Estate,
52 Castlereagh-stbeet,
At the
PARRAMATTA RIVER CO’S, WHARF,
Foot of King-street,
Or at the
OFFICES OF THE VENDORS,
THE MERCANTILE BUILDING, LAND, AND
INVESTMENT CO.,
LIMITED,
Corner of Park and Castlereagh Streets.
EDWIN J. C. BRYANT,
Manager.
COLEM ANK and SONS, Cootamundra, N.S.W.,
are manufacturers of the ONLY GENUINE
EUCALYPTI OIL in the colonies. All those
suffering from Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption,
Pleuresy, Colds. Gravel and Kidney Complaints,
Rheumatism, Toothache, and Neuralgia and
Fevers of all kinds, also for lowness of spirits and
over indulgence in spirituous liquors it has no
equal. Posted by us to any part of the colonies
on receipt of stamps. Price Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per
Bottle; Ointment 2s. and 3s. 6d. per pot. Whole-
sale from Elliott Bros., Drug Company; and
Hoffnung and Co.
sd
fs
jgTUDY
ECONOMY
and
Have pour Umbrella Framei re-
covered and pour
Faraioli re-lined and made eqna
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathnnt Street!
Faraioli made to match ooi
la as* Repalri neatlp ezeentif
LIFE /ISSUEA
The Mutual Life Insurance
Company of New York
DESIRES the public to carefully avoid con-
founding it with other Companies, as mis-
takes have arisen.
This is NOT the “New York Life Company.’,
It is NOT the “ Equitable of the United
States.
It is the Company of which Mr. M. A. Black,
Actuary of the Australian Mutual Provident
Society, officially writes that it is
“ THE LARGEST AND WEALTHIEST INSUR-
ANCE CORPORATION IN THE WORLD.”
Its Invested Funds are more than
TWENTY-FOUR MILLION POUNDS
STERLING,
an amount exceeding the funds of the
BANK OF ENGLAND!
Its policy-holdeis have the
SIMPLEST AND MOST LIBERAL CONTRACT t
and receive the
LARGEST BONUSES
given by any Life Insurance Company in the
world.
Its claims are promptly paid in Australia im-
mediately upon acceptance of proof of death and
title.
J. O RENNJE,
General Manager for Australia,
131 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
N.B. Applications for Insurance, for Agencies,
or for Information promptly responded to.
The most welcome discovery of
MODERN TIMES,
A CURE for PULMONARY CONSUMPTION.
To the consumptive, and those who suffer from
asthma, bronchi'is, coughs, colds, haemorrhage,
and other affections of the lungs, this no'ice is of
vital importance, for this remedy will effect a
peifeot cure of the most stubborn cases.
It has renewed the life of many whose condition
had been pronounced beyond remedy by members
of the medical profession.
The afflicted need have no fear of it, and must
not regard this advertisement as the ordinary notice
of tome quack medicine. The qualities of the
preparation are cleaning and healing, causes easy
and copions expectoration, and heals the lungs
through the blood, promotes digestion, and thus
aids the stomach to digest and assimilate nourish-
ing food for the formation of pure vitalising blood,
to repair diseased tiesius, and maintain the vital
powers.
Cn application for reference we will send the
addresses and testimonials of those persons whom
it has cured, whose names and position in society
at once places the veracity of their statements
above question, and who are now living in Sydney,
Newcastle, Maitland, and especially in the district
of Tamworth, where this remedy has been known
and used for the last thirty years, and where there
are hundreds of living monuments of its wonderful
curative qualities.
THE CONSUMPTIVE CURE
can be obtained from the office of
WILLIAM FORD and COMPANY.
No. I, Australia-street, opposite Courthouse,
Newtown, Sydney.
Sent to any part of the Colonies.
Price —SEVEN SHILLINGS PER BOTTLE.
And where may be also obtained
THE CURE OF ST. VITUS’ DANCE,
by external application, which disease it will cure
within eighty-four hours.
CRITERION HOTEL, N ARB ANDER A, N.S.W.
First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Plunge and shower bath. ’Bus meets every train.
J. E, PATTERSON,
Good Sample Rooms. Proprietor.
df


Do you want peace of mind ?
Drink Clausen’s Champagne Lager Beer.
Do you want health of body!
Drink Clausen’s Champagne Lager Beer.
Do you want your friends to love you ?
Drink Clausen’s Champagne Lager Beer.
Do you want your neighbors to respect you ?
Drink Clausen’s Champagne Lager Beer.
Do you want to live a sober, honest, reputable
life?
Drink Clausen’s Champagne Lager Beer.
Do you want to die honored and lamented, and
leave a lot of money to your children 1
Drink Clausen’s Champagne Lager Beer.
rjl HE LEADING BRAND.
THE LEADING BRAND
THIS SEASON
THIS SEASON
CLAUSEN’S NEW YORK CHAMPAGNE
LAGER BEER.
CLAUSEN’S NEW YORK CHAMPAGNE
L vGBR i EER.
CLAUSEN’S
CLAUSEN’S
Backed by
THE DECISIONS OF EXPERTS,
THE APPROVAL OF THE MEDICAL
PROFESSION,
THE GREAT PUBLIC DEMAND,
AND BY THE VERDICT OF TRUTH,
CLAUSEN’S NEW YORK CHAMPAGNE
LAGER BEER '
Maintains its bright color and effervescence, and
1b free from sediment for an unlimited length of
time.
As a beverage for the convalescent, and for those
whose digestion is impaired, it has no equal.
It is the hnest tonic that can be administered,
and is recommended tj patients of weak constitu-
tions and nervous temperaments by the most
prominent physicians, in preference to all other
brands, as the purest and most wholesome stimu-
lant obtainable.
It Is kept in all First-class Hotels everywhere,
and everbody who drink beer naturally asks for
CLAUSEN’S LAGER BEER.
IT HAS THE BEST OFFICIAL CLAIM ON
RECORD.
THE MOST PRONOUNCED
POPULARITY.
It invites comparison with every other brand for
BRIGHTNESS AND PURITY
FREEDOM FROM SEDIMENT
DELICACY OF FLAVOR.
And all those characteristics of a good beer,
which have for so many years enabled it to head
the prizeli«t in competition with all comers.
As a gentle tonic and a wholesome non-intoxicaf
ing stimulant, it has never had an equal, It can
be had from all wholesale and retail dealers in cii y
and country.
“Could you tell me the time, sir, please?' 1 is au
everyday request. When the answer comes
promptly, decisively, and cheerfully, the man has
consulted a Waterbuy. When he stammers,
hesitates, and looks all over like an habitual
criminal, he’s got tome sort of a double-action
choke-bore chronograph, currently believed to be
worth 10 guineas.
The “Golden Belt” is in North Carolina, and
the Tobacco grown there an d manufactured by
Blaoiwel’s Durham Tobacc Compoany is the best
in the world.
Age cannot wither or custom stale the infinite
virtues of Dr Scott’s electrsc blessings in the shape
of brushes, belts, and corsets. See the volumes of
testimony in their favor at the offices of the Pall
Mall Electric Association, 56, Margaret-street,
Sydney.
What the monkey did with the nut is a matter
of no consequence to anybody in comparison with
the importance of nsing C Gilbert’s Corn Flour
in the rouseholo.
Summer ! Hockings and Co., have Australian Wines
from one to two guineas, doz —143 Pitt-street. 11
One of the best managed and larges t hotels in Sydney is
he Great Northern, corner Charlotte Place and George -
street. Having been thoroughly renovated, Travellers will
find it the cosiest place in Sydney. The shilling luncheon
there is immense *
New South Wales at the Colonial and Indian
Exhibition w s thoroughly >eprasentative and, Gold O es
and Qu -itz attracted great attention, especially when it was
known that the average ter ton was far in excess of that in
the other c denies Later news has shown that New South
Wales is likelv to beco oe the 11 Gold Field of the future."
Mr Freeman, the inventor of the Original and only Genuine
< hlo’odyne. has lately sent out many oases with those gentle
men who are interested in the auriferous enterprise. Mr.
Freeman has received numerous flattering letters and visits
from New South Wales colonists who, one and all, speak
of th® incalculable value of his Colorodyne in the treatment
of all the commoner diseases of life, and erpec ! ally in Cramp,
Colic, Di urhoea, Dysentery and Fevers so frequently met
with io the Gold and Diamond Fields of Australia.—Soli
everywhe-e throughout the Colonies. Insist upon having
“ FieemmV' only. Reject substi ute.s, as they are worth-
less. Trade mark »n Elephrnt.*
£lO.OOO MELBOURNE CUP £lO,OOO
At 20s, each.
Run, Nov. Isi, 1887.
First Horse, £5,000; 2nd, £2,000; 3rd, £1 000; Starters,
£1,000; Non Starters, £1,000; to be divided amongst them.
£2.000 MELBOURNE CUP £2,000
First Horse, £l,OOO, 2nd £3OO, 3rd £2OO, to Starters, £250,
Non Starters £250, to be divided am ngst them.
Address —‘ Tattersall.”
Care i f G Adams,
Tattersall’s Hotel,
Pitt-street, Sydney.*
INTERESTING DISCOVERY.
On the banks of the river Merimac, 20 miles
from the Isle of St. Louis, a number of barrels
have been found buriedin stone tombs and arranged
in systematical order. It is computed that they
have lain there for centuries, An inscription in
the Latin tongue was upon each barrel, viz.,
“ Bonum beeruvi St. Louis non facit inebrie nsis ”
When the barrels were opened they were found
to contain St. Louis Lager Beer in a complete state
of preservation. Athenseus mentions the existence
of this beer in his “Deipnosophists, or Banquet
of the Learned,” and Bavius and Macevius also
testify to its beneficial properties. Travellers
on the banks of the Upper Nile have found that
. the Greeks had introduced the beverage in those
parts. With such ancient evidence it is not to be
wondered at that modern opinion endorses the
verdict. This famous St. Louis Larger Beer, I
wa it every reader to understand, can be had at
any Hotel in Australia
Lung Troubles and Wasting Diseases can be cured
if properly treated in time, as shown by the following state
ment from D. C Freeman, Sydney. “Having »een a great
sufferer from pulmonary attacks, and gradually waetm{
away for the past two years, it affords me p'easure to testify
that “Scotts Fmulsion of Cod Liver Ail with Lime
and Soda has given me great relief and I cheerfully recom
menl it to all suffering in a similar way to m) salt. In
addition, I would say that it is very pleasant to take. Large
and small sizes at all Chemists.*
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
HENRY THORPE, Proprietor,
Late of the Baden Baden Hotel, Coogee.
THE most elevated and central position in Sydney, at Top of King-street, adjacent to all Law
Courts, Macquarie-street, Hyde Park, Domain, and the Botanical Gardens.
Private Suites, Ladies’ Drawingroom, and good airy Bedrooms.
The Hotel is replete with every Convenience. Baths fitted with hot and cold water. Telephonic
communication. Telegraphic office in Hotel.
The Hotel is now under entirely new management, and the present proprietor trusts by careful atten.
tion to business to make The Oxford a Comfortable Home for Visitors or Residents of Sydney.
OR NEVER . NOW AND FOR EVER
Now, or like the “ Borealis trace it may flit ere
you can point its place.”
Now read. Now marvel. Now reckon.
Now buy.
And so that the Thousands of customers we have
throughout the country may share in the prizes—
in the marvellous and startling bargains we are for
ONE MONTH submitting to the citizens of Syd
ney—we have pleasure in giving full descriptions
at our re-reduced sale ratts of lines that may be
ordered by post with the same security of atten
tion, the same satisfaction as to value, as if ex*
amined upon the show-room doors.
But Lawler’s have been before the public since
1860, and as Wholesale Manufacturers, General
Merchants, and English American and Continenta
Importers, have enjoyed the uninterrupted con-
fidence of Hundreds of Thousands of town and
country customers.
And remember, also, please, that the terms are
cash upon the spot, and the goods at the sale price
for the month of October only. From this condi-
tion there can and will be no deviation, the various
heads of the departments having bee a specially
advised to this effect.
The motto is
LAWLER’S CASH DOWN OCTOBER PRIZES
For October only.
Those w ho read of or hear of this prize-all-bargain-
sale, and miss the opportunity of purchasing dur-
ing Oc ober, whilst the sale is on, will have them-
selves to blame, as neither love nor money will
get them the bargains after October.
And now before commencirg with the sale
parcels of any one department, note for your
guidance that the bargains apply in the following
departments.
Upon the ground floor, Boys clothing,
~ Mens’ clothing and Mer-
cery.
~ Drapery.
~ Ladies’ underclothing.
Upon the upper ground floor, Ironmongery
Upon floor No. 2,
Upon upper floor No. 2,
Upon floor No. 3,
Upon floor No. I—and
such a floor,
Upon floor No. 5,
Upon floor No. 5,
U pon floor No. 6,
Upon floor No. 7.
Glassware and
China.
Boots and shoes.
Drawing anddiningroom
furniture.
Bedroom and Colonial
furniture.
Bedsteads, Bedding,
Wire Mattresses.
Carpets and Floorcloths
Curtains and Cornices.
Chinese Lounges.l
Balcony chairs.
Marble top Cafe tables. ’
Feathers, Hair, Down.
And now during this truly marvellous sale we
offer for prompt “Spot” net casa
100 Strong Half Tester Bedsteads, 3at 15 0
100 Pair White Forfar Palliassess, 65 x 3 at 8 0
100 Curled Hair mattresses, x3 at 1 10 0
200 Feather pillows at 2 0
&2 15 0
£2 15s. cry the crowd. £2 15s.—impossible,
astonishing as has been the value heretofore for
£2 15?, it 1 eems impossible that the above can be
done? It can and will though, but no single
buyer will be allowed more than 5 of the line.
And here is another “ bobby dazzler” of a line,
500 Strong full size Half Tester Do able
Bedsteads at 10 0
500 Pairs of double sized White Palliases at 10 0
500 Curled Hair Mattresses full size at 2 0 0
£3 10 0
Read that again for heaven’ssrke, cry the excited
trade. What £3 10s. for the lot? Yes, yes, jes
£3 10a. for the lot, but no more than a line of
5 sets will bo sold to any individual buyer.
Sneer at these revolutionary rates—laugh ye of
long credit reputation—swear the goods cannot be
good and then gratify your curiosity by calling at
the Emporium and examining the goods. Witness
the thoroughness of the marvellous organisation of
the concern —every thing marked in plain figures,
and £5 brass mounted bedsteads that are more
commonly sold at £7 7 0; witness the real,
thorough, live and active business being done and
then learn what it is to do for cash.
Daisies, eh? Read this,
500 Fullsize Fourpost 2inch tubular
bedsteads, with extended foot-
rails, straight bars, with brass
rods in head and foot. Or the
like bedstead in half tester.
500 Fullsized double wire spring Mat-
tresses for same
500 Full sized double Curled Hair Mat-
tresses
£5 10 0
111 be there said the parson, so will I said the
clerk,
So will we,
Saag with glee, .
Presbytery ;
So will we.
So will we,
So will we.
And what about ye who have paid £4 4s, and
frequently more for common bedsteads with only
flock or fibre bedding.
Stop, for our foot is upon restrictive prices. We
will not part from the furnishing departments
without a few more “prize bargain” items that
will settle until the arrival of another Captain
Cooke, the question of who in the furnishing trade
is King.
Mammoth Establishment, Premier Factories
Splendid thow, Steam and Electricity, Civility
and Courtesy throughout the house complete*
Universal, Modern, Satisfactory, Wonderful.
And now for the breaking up of old prej udices
the furniture trade.
We just do give our friends a lively time of itin
Furniture and Upholstery at all times, but we
now smash, pulverise, and destroy the whole
blessed “ biling.”
2 10 0
10 0
2 0 0
LAWLER’S
608 GEORGE-STREET SYDNEY*
MORE FRAUDS.
Many a smart man outside a bank has asked,
“How is it possible that those fellows can get away
with such a pot of money and carry on operations
over such lengthy periods without beiog found
out sooner 3" And how is it that public institutions
cannot devise a system which will protect them
from being victimised by unprincipled employees?”
But there is no response. The perpetrator of such
frauds wean an honest exterior, but he is not
bound by the rules of the game, and may safely
be backed to win—up to a certain point. Then he
attains fame or comes to grief, as the case my be,
and elaborate precautions are take a for enabling
his successor to follow his example, and even go
one better if he be so disposed But from the day
of Jonah and the Whale down to the dawn of
Protection some sort of fraud has always occupied
the foreground. Social, political, or religion B
frauds have all the time helped to build up or
knock down history. The pious and the unre-
generate have alike taken a hand when it suited
them, and the children of this world have re-
peatedly burst up the balance of power just when
the children of I'ght had a good thing on, and
were ab mt to pass round the hat So it always
had been, so it is now : and it is a positive relief
to be able to turn to the world-establlehed merits
of St. Jacobs oil, and acknowledge that it, at least,
is what it claims to be. Ic will cure rheumatism
and all similar complaints more surely and more
speedily than any other preparation, and it will
instantly relieve physical pain of any kind. There
is not, and there never has been, a suspicion of
fraud in connection with St. Jacobs oil, and that
is the foundation of its astonishing popularity.
Dear Bulletin.— I was lately at a shearing-
shed and tried to explain the Chinese Question to
the mob; but an old man nonplussed me. He
says that the best way to get rid of the Chinamen
is to deal entirely with them, thereby causing the
Buropean-storekeepers to take steps against the
yellow element in self defence He argues that
the storekeepers have more influence than we,
TRAM CONDUCTOR : “ FARES, PLEASE.
PASSENGER (quoting from memory passage in French exercise-book) : “ CE CHAPEAU NE
VOUS SIED POINT !’
CONDUCTOR: “HEY ? I SAID, ‘FARES, PLEASE.’”
PASSENGER: “VENEZ LE QUIANE OU LE SEIZE, AVRIL !”
CONDUCTOR: (beginning to lose patience): “LOOK HERE, I WANT YER TICKET !”
PASSENGER: PARBLEU! I HAIN’T GOT NO TICKET NOR NO MONEY : BUT,
DON’T YER SEE. I CAN SPEAK FRENCH A BIT, AN’ MY BOOK SAYS FRENCH
WILL TAKE YOU TO ANY PART OF THE WORLD. SURELY TO HEAVEN
I’VE SAID ENOUGH TO GET ME TO BONDI !”
CONDUCTOR: “YES! YOU’VE SAID ALMOST ENOUGH TO GET YOU INTO THE
WATCHHOUSE!”
the working men, and that their ruin would ruin
the towns and cause the desired agitation I be-
lieve that the man is right, it we also had a few
Onioky fquatters who gave high wages, and
especially a licensed Mongolian publican in every
town. It is heart-rending to see effigies of white
men who were fossicking for broken pastry a
month since, employing Chinese cooks, on the
only occasion they have of paying a servant. —
Yours, Hiram Abtff.
Green Park, Darlinghurst. Is this place
called after Alderman Green ? Some years ago—
away in the forties - Green, the hangman, lived in
A hut on this identical spot.
The S.M. Herald says that at the Police
Court last week “ Arthur Wilson, quite a young
man, was charged with leaving his illegitimate
child without means of support.” Is it that the
Herald thinks that only hoary reprobates should
be guilty of offences of this sort ?
A physician who works off his patients at
an English sea-side town, says that they invariably
“go out with the tide.” Very likely that doc
tor’s pills and sleeping-draughts are peculiarly
susceptible to the subtle influence of the moon.
’Tis a pretty yarn. We presume that Sydney babies
are born when there is high water at Woolloo-
raooloo.


Good News to Lovers of Music.
IMMENSE REDUCTIONS!
the oisru.’^r
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION,
674
GEORGE ST, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY
Beg to inform their many patrons and the public
t hat, as the duty on Instruments terminate on
Sept. 30th; they will sell
JHEAPER THAN EVER
O
ACCORDEONS, at 7/6, 10/6. 12/6. 15/-, 17/6, 21/
25/; 30/; 40/-, tO £6.
Speciality : Patent steel noted Accordeon, double
bellows, 27/6.
>, Patent German Silver Reeded Ac
cordeon, double bellows, 30/-,
4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 25/
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Genuine Lachenal Anglo German . u . 35/
~ ~ steel notes 50/'
7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/; 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Specialty: Old copy Violin, with case, Bov
Strings, Resin and Tutor for 30/-.
bl; 7/6, 10/-, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-,
up to £l2 12s.
Speciality: Walter Howard Model Nickel Banjo
60s.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10s.
About 200 different sorts In stock.
Speciality: 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case,
by best English maker, for £2 10s.
Sole Agents in Australia
FOR
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
H mn ns,
Which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6
5/- and 5/6 a set.
Single ones in proportion,
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d,, 9d„ and la. each,
Silver andCoppeb Strings, 9d., Is., and Is. 3d. each.
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Guitar, Cello, Viola, Double Bass, Harp,
Zithar, Ac., Ac.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
Digger minstrel troupes fitted out.
Orders promptly attended to, and all instru-
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
fehe colonies.
Enquiries attended to by return of post,
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSBN,
674 GEORGE STREET,
enriinrf?
sd
Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for everv form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
K 5?
V
Scrofula on Heck
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautiflers, externally.
Itching: and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and go-
ne relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies.
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
B. Towns & Co., New South Wales,
CUTICURA RESOLVES, , the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cnticnra, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin,
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts,
ITor Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
• ii throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
>1; :3. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
fl.'j, Cuticura Soap, 25 cents'; Cuticura Shav
in;- -cvp, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
oc\
Prepared bt the
Voitev 11 rug & Chemical Co., Boston, IT.S.A.
NEW MODEL” CAMERA,
,-jgJ Open
Closed
CHAIR AND HEAD REST,
(new and improved).
LICHTNER AND CO..
' HOToeßnpmc stock be altos
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
MASON BROTHERS,
fs
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
BARTHENW A R B
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky,
J. SORIN and CO.'B
Cognac,
». T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
M
ONUM B N T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railing*.
Deilgni and Eitimatea forwarded on reonaa
j. cviririir«HAM,
maui-sibiit, Wykward-s.jua»«, SroirsY
WE can recommend the Imperial Hair-Cut-
ting Saloon as the best in Brisbane.
Tobacco and cigars of the best brands. Address i
Temple Building, George-street, six doors from
Queens-streot A. COOPER, Proprietor.
Everybody \PT?MT? T T ’ C!
SHOULD USE fIU ill li Jj L jj
EXTRA SUPERFINE
PLOUE!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
tn a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
Is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD,
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
881 Oeobos-htbbbt. Stubby.
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
MACKAY.
UNSURPASSED accommodation for commer-
cial travellers, and families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy meets every steamer.
I make comfort of travellers a special study.
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V, ROBINSON,
Proprietor.
ALAN B BRIGHT,
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
CLAREMONT, Darlinghurst Road, Sydney.—
A Private Medical and Surgical Home,
established by Dr. Tarrant, for the reception and
systematic treatment of patients of both sexes.
The residents, who are provided with separate
bedrooms, desire the great advantages of a con-
stant medical supervision with the care and atten-
tion of a trained nursing staff. For particulars
apply to the Lady Superintend ant.
j:jRADiS.T, .MIWSON, ft LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and C'CONNELL STREETS
Full suites for dining-room,—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match.
(ELF- ADJUSTING HAMMOCK
Patented.
CHAIR
S 3?
iMfi
-r
This chair adjusts itself to any pos tlon, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous ositions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. *2T We can
now supply portable suspension Stands to enable
the Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with
Stand 30/-; Without Stand 25/-.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB (only).
Packing in canvas, if required 2s. 6d. extra,
D”~ RA WING-ROOM SUlTBsTFashlonafcly UjT.
bolstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton
and Lamb.
OCCASIONAL TABLES In all Woods, Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &c. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell and
Spring Streets.
g
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari.
oua sizes, fitted with Shelves.
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
era, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men,
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell and Spring
Streets.
ISSjE
■- o
Drawing room cabi-
nets, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
FUBHITUBB WAKKHOUHUCIV,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streeti,
fklh
£36
PIANOFORTE,
guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brll ant
tone, In handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb,
[MPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the’MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS. *
kfjdshf
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS
In
ORBAT VARIETY,
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and I \MB,
Spring & O’Connell sta.
CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bet'
SJSSL New deBlgna °° vered * **** *
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH~7Tr
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN ’
s
R OCKmriASY and rest".
gh
B 3 vt T i?f D . S ’ aU Bl,er >
Nickel-plated and Black
»nd Braea. Qroat variety.
Baddtng,—All descriptions at
lowest rates.
bkadlky, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Importers,
O’Connell and Spring Street*,
fgdfgh
SPRING MATTRASSKB
Woren Wire, beat
aiake | also, Spiral Spring.
Price, from lia. aaob.
■KADLKX; WtWTOW and UMR.
CHEAP FURNITURE.-Pine TablM
13s. 6d. j Dining Tables, from 20s. , Kitchen
Dressers, from 27a. 6d.j Washstands, from 12s 6d i
Cheste of Drawers, from 40a.j Wardrobes from
80s., Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s., CedS’ SS
boards, from *8 10s.) Clothes Horses, from 10s. tf.
Writing Tab,pa, with *’•" vrors, **ofn 50*. 1
SSaDIII, Wlw'tQ#, and LAHTj


ft*-*'
J\y
3/-
“Grim Visaged War Hath Smoothed Her Wrinkled Front,” and, says the Cable, “Amity Reigns at Samoa.”
