

The Bulletin
Tot. 7—Ho. a«a
SATURDAY, JANUARY 8, 1887.
w*,«i
Small Bores
lit Champwn' Bor*
Ik (VrT IBoo<
SoRC
js
■ /
T le
"fa SEER'S
bom
The MN< i
S»EE MRtul
Y T «t
VEKBoSt
\
•it xvmFvi
) PmiTiiiAtr
7 13c*e
T>|f
ftoHt
to l
£*l7lol v
puKt v
iWop Tso«
Small Bores.


THE BULLETIN.
resume ones a wra,
At 11 Pirr-STKirr, Stdioct, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Parable In Advance).
Per annum - - - - - jBI Ob. Od.
Half-yearly - * - - 0 12s. Od.
Quarterly - - - - O 6e. 0d-
All money order*, ohequos, and registered lettera
J. M. HARDING,
to whom aU order, for the paper, advertleemenU,
nd remlttanoee ehonld be addreeeed.
NOTICE.
h»re Till Uull.tih ported retulirly to TOO ita? tor
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY. JANUARY 8. 1887
HIGH WATER MARK.
Trie Circulation of "The Bulletin"
Christmas Number is the largest ever
reached by an Australian Newspaper.
Bi«hty two Thousand Five Hundred
and Sixty (02,500) copies havlog been
printed, and the entire edition sold.
The Priests Pass By.
When in the days immediately preceding
tho Christian era a man became possossod of
a devil he went out amongst the tombs and
tho priest passed him by. When Jksuh
Christ came ho bailed tho man up and bade
the Devil como forth. Thirteen hundred
years later, when Martin Luthhr met
similar difficulties (for tho great reformer
firmly believed that children were sometimes
begotten of tho Devil) ho had such impish
offspring cast into tho river that the world
might no more be tormented of them. We
liave gone back bevond tho reformer and the
Christ now, we have reached a condition
similar to that of tho Scribes and Pharisees
in tho rpign of Tiberius C.shar. Casos of
apparent demoniac possession occur amongst
us'and the priests jass by.
Tho Cardinal Archbishop of Sydney passed
but with a strong prayor for mercy. But
the Anglican Primate ]>asscd without a
syllable of prayor, without supplication or
examination or warning, passed tho wilder-
ness of scrub whero’tho trngody occurred,
with the carriage-blinds drawn down, that
sensibility might not be shocked by painful
suggestivenoss; passed tho D&rlinghurst
gaol with face close shut up as tho lion
mouth above tho gaping doorway ; passed to
tho arrangement of the lilies and laurels in
tho Cathedral, to a final rehearsal of carol
service ; passed as he {laasod tho brothels of,
Woolloomooloo a few weeks back, with not a
word for tho wretched creatures, mowed in
their sweltering filth ; but a mind busy with
tho composition of rolling periods of eulogy
to bo pronounced above the grave of a cortain
great man to whom somo amongst them owid
their irretrievable and meanly-compcnsatod
ruin. Tho Anglican Primate j>assed by.
A few months ago that samo Primate was
in tho habit of passing the wilderness places,
the scrub coverts - and the broken-down
houses whore tho larrikins’ clubs are ; where
they “gaff” and swear and fight and defilo
themselves with all the power of filthy
language; and whither bound then? To
the Chinamen’s gardens at Waterloo to
make an effort for tho conversion of the
poor, benighted hoathen, to get them to the
church and, incidentally to the contribution-
box ; to use them for the customary show
buainosa, nought less nought more, for that
Primate Barry had ever understood the
nature and depth of the Chinese plague in
Sydney is too ridiculous a supposition to be
for a moment entertained. Had tho cul-
tured Primate over penetrated the recesses
of their homes, seen tlioir drugged, de-
bauched women lying insensate, exposed
luree to the lascivious eyes of the wanton
youths flocking in to tho gambling-schools ;
scon tho constant purchase of women, the
defilement of dhfldreiLr.tho .jobbery and cor-
ruption of men, he would have attempted
s imething more vigorous than his ting-tang
at Waterloo and his pig-tailed Catechists
“ licensed to administer the sacraments of
tho Church.” But he did not sec, he did
not know, hb did not understand—did lie
care to learn I It was his mission to plant
tho cross upon the shores of Chinadom in
Sydney much as somo intrepid explorer may
plant a flagstaff of possession down on the
great Antarctic iceland, and the degree of
possession and influence secured will be
equal in both cases.
But there was another effect unexpected
as deplorable. People who knew the condi-
tion of the Chinese before the time of the
Anglican mission and who ca.ro to invcatigato
it now will need a microscopic power of ob-
Bcrvation to detect any difference. But is
thero a difference in tho Primate I This is
the ghastly question. We are not aware of
any particular evidence of large-hearted
charity or noble sclf-incrifice in the life of
Bishop Barry, but somo of his more mti-
mato friends could doubtless point to in-
stances. This, howevor, do wc know. Sinco
his mission to the Chinese the Primate has
developed, if not acquired, Chinese proclivi-
ties. The ordinary Chinaman becomes sick
or falls into disgrace, ami all his friends and
relations turn thoir backs and aro “ brother
belong to him” no more. Brother Boyce,of
the Anglican fraternity, ono of tho youths
now doomed in Darlinghurst, is surely sick
enough to attract the attention of the big
brother of all tho Anglicans, and thero is no
sign of any attention being bestowed, but
the pigtail of contemptuous or cautious-dis-
regard sprouts from the Primate's skull and
sick man Boyce is passed by. Tho Bishop
with his clergy ]»ass, dignitaries of various
kinds be-mbed and bedecked with him pass
to solemn functions, to gorgeous festivals
pass one of the most awful missions ever
placed before Christian men, . permitting
only some minor canon or obscure priest to
go in and minister to that one poor leper,
ono of the six without the camp.
It is a rickening spectacle
when fully consider™, as closo an example
of the savourless salt as the world has ever
seen. For if it indeed be reasonable that
the New South Wales Executive and
Governor should be left undisturbed in the
performance of their ao’emn duty, had the
Church no mission to attack the conditions
out of which the offence grew ? Should not
ovorv pulpit of tho city have rung with
anathemas agaiust every form of pollution'
and vice ? Was it a time for Christmas
carols and New Year congratulations, or for
lamentation and sorrow that any Christmas
should find' us under such stain and shame,
that any new year should dawn so fearfully
overshadowed 7 Last, was not tho chief
dor’s place beside the chief sinner of his
c ? And was he found there 1 Do not.
so wrong the pious man’s good taste ! Per-
adventuro he was gone on a journey (to the
mountains), or on a visit'(to Government
House), or to a feast (with distinguished
visitors). Those well-cut gaiters, that ac-
curately-draped portly form in tho con-
demned cell I Not unless some very distin-
guished person should be there wbonlight
require dignified consolation.
And following in the wake of the Primate
they all passed by. Tho greasy Weslcyans,
anointed and sleek, prosperous with tho rc-
sultsof many lectures, passed by. By and bye,
whtnall the shame is buritdthey insy make a
lecture out of Mount Rennie, but just now
it behovoth them not to obstruct the course
of tho law. They affect horror at the
tragedy, and they imagine thoyare going to put
an end to it by adding tragedy to tragedy--
good homeopathic doctrine, mm ilia timililnu
ouratUur. • It is easy doctrine, and does not
seriously interfere with the customary way.
Love-feasts and grace-meetings may still go
on, sermons bo preached, and stipends come
in. It is just as well to be clear in explana-
tion to the respectable portion of the com-
munity that wo do not hold them in anyway
responsible for this foul deed. It is not in
not know how it camp to bo there ; wc must
cbt it off. Was ever such ignorance or im-
becility or utter cant heard in the world
before ? Is tho Obi priest, with hi i little
drum, a rankorimpostor than the Evangehcsl
pastor with tho Gallows in his hands and the
Cross beneath his fqct, with his face like
flint against tho victims caught in their guilt,
but sickly with smiles toward the greatest
rutlisn who ever outijged decency, so long
as he appears smoothly vested in broadcloth
and regular in his payment of dues 7
Independents, also, with man-of-the-world
Jeffbris at thoir head,-nothingfrom them,
dumb dogs all,—eyes have they but they see
not, ears have they but they hear not, tongues
have they but they apeak not, for it is in no
wise convenient. Presbyterians by ones or
twos speak out, though the Presbyterian
bishop, Dr. Steel, halts on “ I dare not,’’
the deed wrought by respectability over-
masters him. No voice, no action m them
all. They stand helpless in the presence of
a great crime as, day by day, year by year,
in sight of the great pollution of Sydney
city, tho toys and the-tools of a dull respect-
ability, staunch to their patrons it may bo,
but false to their Master and their God and
to all tho lessons of His life as to His dying
charge. ’
Rattle-up tho Salvation -Army drums,
there is life and human sympathy in Ihem,
but this dull, conventional, middlo-class,
philutinish humbug of Anglicanism and
Methodism ami Independence and Congre-
gationalism, lot it drift, let it rot, as most
assuredly it must and will; for hero, brought
to as solemn a test, charged with as sacked a
duty, as was ever felt by any church in any
ago of the world, it gathered itself as the
M*lhg tho drivel of 50-
called fceculnrat blasphemy might lee “ Up.
lrnram * on tho wall when ,uch impotence 1,
shown and at such a crisis, but then he would
only discover what was long ago on record
for all broad-thinking men—the “Reformed
Churches " of England and Australia aro the
toys of respectability, not the ministers of
Ciiuist ; anu shall the toy rebuke its owner /
As well ask shall the clay contend With the
potter/ It is enough ttat it be moulded
according to the comcutimial exigencies of
the time. ' ,
The N.S.W. Attorney-General and his
Department
Ok tho Ministerial Deportments of New South
to have pawed out o'f tho rango of public ccnsuro,
tempt. The Department seemed to have rcaohed
the very depths of error anil Incapacity undor
previous Ministers, but undor the. mismanage-
ment of Mr." Jack" Want it has .disproved the
allegations id to its formor iicoroparablo Inccm
pctenoe by bscoming just a little worse than ever.
Scandalous noglcct of duty, varied by phenomenal
blunders, oompriseathccona'un! record as presented
to publlo attsntion, and proves either that Mr.
Water has a whole staff of lncapablos under him
or else that tlis offloia's have the misfortune to bo
under a wretchedly inefficient head. Probably
those critics who know Mr. Want beet will lean
to the latter conclusion ; those who know the per-
manent oltlcluls only will, on tho contrary, incline
to tho former hypothesis.
We have never hex-d Mr. Want accused of
concealing or, indeed, of displaying ary great
political ability nor administrative talent. In the
Assembly bis chances of approving his legal acu-
men have usually ended In disastrous failures;
was under discussion, and when tho legality of
tho proceeding leading to the suspension of Mr.
any one political action of his which could be
queued to show that association with tho mem-
bers of the incapable Jknningb - Ministry was
- likely to injure his political reputation. Presum-
ably, he draws bis Ministerial salary with scrupu-
lous regularity, and also pockets as his perqui-
sites some' of tho fees, amounting, perhaps, to
£SOO per annum, extorted by law from men who
haVe the misfortune to be Inventors ; but It Is
ditlioult to see where the equivalent roturn is
rendered to the State, Mr. Want does not seem
one instance ho urged tho claim of a colleague as
Ministers . Beyond the administration, such as
this is, of his Department, and the occasional
rendering of an opinion, it is difficult to see what
sorvices Mr. Want performs for the publlo in re-
turn for his salary ; that'{rrovlous occupants of his
tribulation, nor dees tho daily proclaimed dia-
inlquity chargeable against the Attorney-General's
Department. Such glaring blunders as that
whtob; a fortnight ago. enabled some alleged fan-
imputed offonce, are moro shocking to the public
but less disastrous in their effects tbnn the con-
tinued negligence which paralyses ito hand of
retributive and romedial justice. Instances
of this neglect occur constantly mid con-
was charged by tho Incorporated I-aw Srciety
with having participated in tho allcgod fraud of a
firm of Sydney tailors, and tho threo Judges wtro
appliod to for a rule calling upon the solicitor to
show cause why he should no*, be struck off the
rolls for his share in the tranrncttcir. Tto Court
refused to grant the ru'e a*, that time, deeming
the charge to be of so serious a raturo as to in-
volve the posslbllityof its investigatltn bynnotlior
vcillgatlon. and if a y action ia contemplated it
affairs now stand both solicitor and clients are
hedged about with a tiupTclbn that may, despite
the freely expressed opinions of tho judges, prove
to be utterly baseless and ni-Just. Jr agon Charta
denied to any ln this present losUnco it
has been delated to these parties-rpresumably
innocont, as is every n;, tried man and present
indications favour tho supposition thatbynegll-
Numerous instances of neglect to tnko cognisance
of imputed crime will .readily occur to tin minds
case Judge Winokvkk was so convinced that
perjury had been committed by scvciptl witnesses
made the objm-t of public suspicion, for as no 1
blc to separate those whom the Judge suspected
from those upon w hom no cloud of jtut suspicion
lwen held to be utterly falso In (indthdr court, y#
no hint of further proceedings In order to obtain-
final decision of tho [winl la given.
would be futile to specify any out of the v„>
wantonly and fearleraly
Attorney-General to punish it's perpotnMon!
Neglect to prosecute in glaring instances has beefc
tho very food of this crime, and so it happens that
rcarceJy a trial or an notion passes without th«
commission of por/ury of a mon, or teas atrocious
character. Laws there are sufficient for it,
punishment of perjurers, and a Department mala-
tained In great part for tho etforcement of these
laws, but owing to the negligence or Incapacity of
tho head of that department, and the careless**
or stupidity of his salaried subordinates, the laws
“ r ° of no avail, and the Court! of Juetloe are po|.
lutod by this crime until they become cesspools of
perjury. It Is In the power of tho Attorney
General to-work the necessary reformation : If j*
ijucabtoor unwilling (o exert hlmsolf to do so,
ThorsT is'little B r hl>Uld b ° PUt ln fharK ° of »ffkira
,aoouo.«l bj- Muu j-ooM reS
ulovatl-n ot anj leu »bte uid l<u l.db.W.e, »„
10. tho very responsible- post of Attorney-General
of New South Walos.
"Our Daughters and our Wives."
For these the c’can-living Kveniko News U
troubled For these, also, wo ourselvoe art
tioublcd, and not without reason when such a
jt urna' proposes to put Us protecting arm about
its •.hcltering uaU abovo them. •• For our
years boon tempting the daughters and the wlr*
of the wholo community with almost every foal
and filthy bait (outside the letter of the Obscene
Publications Uw) which a keen perception of
human weaknoss could discern, and stiong finan-
cial ppwor procure. Head the hidooushalf-columnof
filth with which the first issue of the New Year
was seasoned-such stuff as no pamphleteer
would dare to publish-such stuff as should be
brought directly under the Obsccno Publications
Act of every Kngllsh-speaklng community. It u
the account of tho Colin Campbell divorce case
and it is headed “ The Scandal of the Century. 1 ’
i It is simply the most revolting details of a filthy
law suit shipped from Kogland, specially tele-
graphed from Adelaide, and wantonly dished up
in Sydney in all its disgusting nakedness. A full
and graphic and accurate report Of a midwifery
case would as .fitly bo classed under tho head of
decent literature and proper nows of the day
It is stuff which can bo published for no purpow,
save ono, which is-to bring a few wretched
copjiers to tho pockets of the miserable pro-
b ys huddled together on a doonLp gloat-
ing ovor it, sec tho unkempt servisg-mald
satisfying her morbid curSsiiy as she reads.
Watch the young tradesman's wife familiarising
hersoll with things she should never know- not,
mark/you. with any matters of philosophical
interest or probable usojn life, but with the very
dregs y moral and physical dircase which lawyers
and physicians handle gingerly and put out of
sight immediately they pass.tho court or (he
consulting room or the hospital door. It It all
advertised in bold loiter*. Atd not for the first
will discover columns equally disgusting, each
ono calculated to do more for tho actual inward
or Mount Carmel for iis outward shame-filth to
corrode tho very wires, to soil tho lightning,
muck that has all tho essence of tho obscenity for
which our legislates and ■•moralists" bid the
hsrgman prepare and wield the lash, differing
only in the outwa-d form of oxpress'.oa. Midden*
and <o spits, morgues and brothels, flegging-yard*
and divorce-courts have been explored and robbed
of their wc'l-burlcd rccrets by the News and some
of its contemporaries. In the treasures dug from
such lccollides they clothe themselves, end crying
—not like the leper, “ Unclean ! Unclean 1 "-hat
“ Morality 1 Morality for your bettor protection,
for your women and your children, your daughters
and your wives." have forced tholr way with too
munity. And why should wo feel* or ex-
press surprise f Have not Lust and Blood walked
together since the foundation of the world, and
sell, cry the Nkwh and its imitators-the secrets
of the brothel, the til h which a full fed uncurbed
I'.cenUousneis dUtills, the horrors of the fallow*
it matters no: which, only whin tbc privlligoof
'•hat the News means, what indeed, they aIL
mean. Honest, honourable, clear headed, pro-
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Railway Conservatism.
placed ]>coplo jnnjr enjoy unwearied comfort and
rcpooe. That thcro is n lot of such unnecessary
sweating and groaning and its usual iccomw 1 ’
vc ry lit-Ic ox|<eiienceof the longer line* will shot*.
Tnkotho Bourko lino any time between Kovem-
ber and Christmas, look at tha socond-clast
corrlnges, pocked in every compartment; men.
women, and c hildren -wedded togother ; all
sorts of mon and women t.o-blAckfellows.
Chinamen, and Hindoo cooks, shearers andxouse-
aboutsina fearfully unwashed coudldon, with.


AiMvmt shop-keeping peoplo, clerks, respoctnbls
all to whom thirty shillings is a con-
sideration. and “working the department" an im-
DoitaibUlty- Through the four and twenty hours
glow and suffer there together, and, as usual,
™.r for the luxurious travelling of " those other*.”
Who are those others / Look at thorn banging
Ibout on the padded benches, tour or live in a
compartment, frequently only two, with half their
studies at leas', in horizontal .position, and fre-
cently, at no extra cost, recumbent the
are they 1 A bigman or two. u representrtUvo
of some Unpot swamp journal, each with an
•l arrangement* which makw his paymrot less
than the second-class rato, a half-dozen squatters
iSd dqcent gentlemen paying their way according
to their custom, and a half-dozen railway people,
staUon-mastors' friends, er something of the sort
running backwards and forwards post half-a-
down stations for a lark (no payment, of course,
for the larks). Count them allup on any day on
«nv long line. Bourko. or \V agga, or Now Eng- |
land and the net results ef the flrst-clasa carriages
will not be more than one-third of the scoond-
class. Vet their original cost—haulage, mnlnte-
nance,—are all more, at least 50 per cent. more. I
it Is thus unless by reason of the re- |
spectablo Conservatism of New South Wales f |
According to commonplace notions of honesty
each class on the railways ought to pay for Itself,
but what have commonplace notions of honesty ,
to do with the provision of proper comforts for
w“ £ SSX
has never considered. Common honesty is one of
the things which lie quite beyond the sphere of
res pep table conservatism, which must yield when
unseemly protest. [
f “ Alleged."
Tub dally papers of Sydney have a'strangely in-
consistent style The'Vlouut
hla-eost typo " Brutal Outrage." " A Defenceless
Womnn set upon and Uavislied." “ Bashl-Bazouks
GntrivnUed." and so forth. Yet at that timo not
a word of evidence had been taken. Of course
there is nothing particularly wrong in this apiutr-
ont assumption of the very point that has to to
nrovod. Everybody knows that when n newspaper
report is headed “Murder." or "Burglary," or
Whatnot, it simply means that a charge of murder
or burglary- is preferred; and similarly great
latitude is permissible in the ute of descriptive
headings of aecwtnts narrating the discovery of
whnt prima fade is a crime. But surely every-
body ought to be served alike. If the rough in
fustian is to have his case prejudiced, why should
thorc bo snob retinod dolleacy where tho accused
happens to belong to tho blnek-conted fnitornity t
There has been n great run lately on tho
imperfect form of the verb to allege: bat
it is noticeable that the "alleged offences are
Invariably those of "respectable" peoplo. • A
Sydney editor would be distracted if ho saw tho
words" Hallway Fraud*,"or " LandOiticoFrauds,"
or "Custom House Frnuds" printed In his paper
without .the prefix “alleged." Such an egregious
breach of pr^rietyjouM^nvoH-^U^inßteUwof
tho lapsuT Tho reason is plain. Men guilty of
frauds of this kind are usually men of substance :
and If there is anything on earth a Sydney oditor
holds in high esteem it la a man of substance.
la no valid obiectlon to his having this
liking, nor to his showlng.lt. in season and out of
aeaSh). provided always ho does not betray an
" lU Pa l and'd h
peoplo whos*
sented by zero. If the crimes of the rich are al-
ways tobo “ Allegod" untll " GuUty" is pronounced,
describing charges against poor and unlniluential
Political Tinkers.
Thb ’Sydney Morning Herald wonders why so
many membsrs of the New South Wades Assem-
bly are resigning their mid in a column of
query. But with most of the resigning members,
tbe wonder is not why they left the House, but
why on earth they over entered it Mr. L. F.
HxTDON, who was tho first in this decade to lond
respectability to the Proteollonist cause in N.S. W.,
Is an exception to the general ru’.o with regard to
do parting members: hU resignaUon is to the
general public os strange and mysterious as most
of hispolltl cal actions haro boon throughout his brief
and not unhoaoured career. Mr. KussßlX Bahton
in resigning shews true patriotism : he
leave# tho Assembly for the Assembly's good. He
Is a very pleasant gentleman with a clean rooord
hand/but Ids pottlicaJ and use-
. fulness are fully described whenHs prlvalo repm
jwHUcaT'triumphs"would not Imv^^enJ|eaß
deep and continued slumber. Nor docs Mr. Lyall
Bcott beroave the House of much statesmanship
in passiugfroui its portals. He wont in to support
nothing muoh in lutrtlcular, and during hi* term
nothing much wos done; therefore, lutving seen
his desiro achieved, ho resigned to coiUcmplate
oett in withholding a reluctant resignation merely
makes an inglorious prolongation of an inglorious
himself w'ith the ixissession of any : and it Is known
to himself alone what lie has ever exhibited of
political power to justify I lie dedication of
by his dsparlnre, but not Its power. Our regret
tlirm. ' Whin political linkers
gp Otto'the House and flailing that their fads .
of tinkering are'not approved, resign, this shows
that tinkering atone was their but
consisting solely ot inglorisua nsgatlons a deeper
motive is usually Imputed If, in short, l’arlia-
memory life brings them nt> reputation peoplo i
usually consider that cash is accepted as a substi-
tute. The plain foot U that there is not now asioglo
member in tho N\& W. house with an intelligible
political crocd. Shreds and patuhes of antegonUUc
prineiples are vaunted In hustings addresses, but
not one member is prepared with f.wmulatod or
reaso-abla beliefs regarding politisal salvatlsn.
Hand'to mouth legislation for present symptoms
of national diseases is tho most that is advocated.
Therefore it is that personal considerations out-
weigballcthers in Ike Assembly; therefore It is Hint
political tinkers of the Scorr and Tanuurr calibre
•btain election, and feeling no enthusiasm ia the
kinks rings of others, resign. Tho country is pas-
sing through a cycle of poUtlool stupidity, and
Messrs. Lyei.i. fkxrrr and Co. are the meet /rolls
The Gorman Scare.
will probably lay the foundation.-, ‘of 'anew jingo
scare in Australia. The leading journal of that
far-off city urge* that Queensland should be over-
run by orgauised German emigration, with a view
to Its ultimate absorption Into the Fatherland as
eoon as the connection between Britain and the
colonies has been dissolved, and this piece of
ghastly stupidity will, no doubt, be quoted for and
near as a proof that Australia must still remain
dependent on the mother oountry as the only
pant Journalist of distant < 'ologne the annexation of
these oolonies pcrhajis seems only a trifling under-
taking. Under the system of Australian Federa-
tion the conquest of Queensland or any other
colony will necessitate that of the whole continent,
but the population numbers as yet only some
4,000,000, and to Germany, accustomed to rely on
brute force and ferocity, this hapdful of enemies
seems beneath derision. Australia, too, has no
troops worth the name ; her fleet Is Insignificant
beyond description ; her land dofcnces are almost
In an Inch of their lives, have a lofty contempt for
guerillas, militia, and. volunteer soldiers. More-
over, tho African goat-scramble, and the utter-
ances of ths whooping maniacs w ho wish to go and
light the Frenchmen In the New Hebrides have led
tho kraut-fed tribee to -set us down as a race
of boastful holiday warriors, a little better than
tho Fan toes and a good deal worse than tho Mexi-
cans. and the striking contras', between thosub-
comparatively fcoblo GauTwho la stationed 1500
ing with Germans, and the Insensate policy of the
of Teutonic emigration, but tho tnen from the
crushing military burdens of Uieir own country,
and knowing as they do the full measure of
the tyranny from which they liaveescaped, they
would be the last to aid in rivetling afresh round
their necks the yoke which weighed so heavily
their loyalty to the Kaiser, the Anglo-Saxons are
man thhn three and a-half millions ahead of thoir
rivals In point of numbers, and at the present rate
Into Australia before It fcould bo-annexed by a popu-
lar vote, and neither tho half nor the whtle of Ger-
many could take Australia by force. No doubt
a battle with on invading forte, and lose every-
thing at one stroke, but being without ono we are
in no such danger, and If an enemy operating from
a base 10,000 miles away, cared to risk his battal-
ias in this land of heat and drought and stupen- ,
dous distances, his insanity would be greater than |
could be contained in any asylum yet erected.
defeated °iu the very zenith of his
greatness by a race of mongrel guerillas led by an
In the Traasvaal, and tho Dutch farmers who
never owned an army or a navy wiped them out
in the ghastly massacre of Msjuba 11 111.-Germany,
with those and a hundred other examples before
her. will never Bend her troops to bo ground ex-
ceedingly small in a with an almost in-
Tho new Jingo scare bus been still-born, and
Jingoism must look round for another empty
Side Issues of the Mount Rennie
Controversy.
ttapS&Unedlement in our race peeps out in the
oonduct of ex-Mnyor YOUNO touching tho Mount
Itennhj meeting. According to all preoedont, Mr.
YOUKS was. as Mayor, in duty bound to conveno
tho assemblage in question. Tho Object sought to
bo advanced was a perfectly legitimate one. and
tho requisition was signed by numerous citizens.
Mr. YOCNO seemingly tried to shuttle out of dis-
charging tho Myoigfaw»»Mat.aw°«iU«U «nd
contradictory telegrams^
used ; and. finally, when ho found tbnt his name I
had been used he entered a strong protest against
this being done without hts authority. Compare
this hesitation and reluctance to give hisottlcial
sand ion- to the holding of this mooting, to discuss
the question whether six human beings should
with which the same functionary scizod upon tho
Idea of inauguratin'* a triumphal entry Into tho
PhiltetinUn'i—tho worshipping of wor Idly
suffering—is painfully conspicuous. Mr. Jublleo
YOUNO had no excuse whatsoever for refusing to
convene tho meeting. He was bound to pre-
side ; and if he hud pressed his potf
dob^tetTfirlytand'wdeciders to voting
thtToxlstonco of* thing as
tho*°partisan* 0 * The citizens would do well
to let this functionary know that re-
caMa meeting for any lawful
numbor* of*respectable persons. A Mayor like
Mr. Youn® could easily gag Uwwholecommunity^
of freodta c ussi orv a s' to practically reduce it to
roro The same spirit has actuated more than one
of the bloodthirsty members of the newspaper
press. Disappointed at the success of the i»eenr-t^
It s importance. Thus the SUNDAY TIMKS declares
hMils*lhat°have br<X_j>ublished. The room was
literally packed with people, and
unable u> gain admission. A circular advocating
'ZSStA JS
now in course of Vetecilon would not have
I held kaM the ceneourso that thronged the
neighbourhood of the Town Hall after the yeeti- '
btilo was tightly packed, and ovorybody in the
crowd wu anxious to take part in the proceed-
ing*. It suite those whose idea of civilisation in-
cludes the gallows as a necessary adlunct to
depreciate the significance of any domonstrai ion
that would rob tuem of their beloved throttling-
match. 'lheso same papers will probably make
money out of selling " full, true, and particular
Governor fr °™°’| Uo, l , “ unloss ' indeed, tho
mont. Tho hldo Issues raised by tho discussion of
the caso of these unfortunate wretches arc
assuredly not without some importance in their
A Ministry of Premfera.
si durable time a' dark* and"deep ’mystery which
will never be solved in this world. It cannot be
covets the cash pertaining to the Pre-
duy ina-etu9B°Um difficultycme’fliidslindiscover
Ing adjectives capable of expressing the lnexpres
Ministerial blundorings. A wild and unworlhy
sulinto his political thirst* Hit 'were so’he should
be created Marquis of Mudhead, Baron Blunder,
or Brines of Pinchgut without a moment's delay.
He reminds one moat strongly of a gentleman
who in the Scriptures is spoken of ai having as-
sociated with seven other gentlemen no better than
himself and to have finished up In a worse stale
than he was at first. In private lifo ho may bo a
seraph, but in politics he is beyond description.
How anyons could hold office as l’romior and sub-
mit to bo alternately flouted and bullied by his
colleagues is altogether inexplicable. He is one of
a Ministry of Premiers, and among them aU lie is
the least. This Is most clearly shown by the ex-
traordinary way in which Ministers deal with
Service hours began with the lands, then after an
interval of uncertainty was oxtendod to other
was this issued to diirerent departments at differ-
ent times, but every now .varies as to its
terms according *to the interpretation of such
minister, Hr, Keswick virtually defying the re-
I maindor of the alleged Cabinet. Following this
latter prohibition oamc theV notice of retrench-
ment in the service, and here again Mr. Copeland
i took a long lead in action, clerks In the Lands first
receiving tho nnploasont intimation that they were
to subscribe a portion of their salaries U> oover
the Treasurer's defipiL The shame of this Ministry is
tho disgraes of its leader, and the degradation of the
country, and tho saddest feature of the case is that
a Jen sinus Cabinet is better than a Pakkkx
Ministry would be. And yet after all it seems
difficult to conceive of any weaker, more wasteful,
and worse Cabinet than this Jknninus Ministry
of Premiers. Much as we loatho the prospect of a
arc almost Inclined to wonder whether they could
after all descend much lower Into the regions of
contempt than Jennings and Co. have already
Tiie deputation last week to Mr. Oarvan, the
Now South Woles Minister for Justice, had a
good cause, and they received a brave answer.
They asked for the privilege of affirmation, and |
the Minister, going beyond their request, declared I
in favour of the abolition of-oaths. This reply
should, evonto Orangemon, clear him of the suspi-
cion of domination by his ecclesiastical teachers.
henceforth they'wUl call him a Freethinker. The
oath is nearly doomed: even now perhkys a
majority in tho Assembly would vote for ite aboli-
tion ; that the Legislative Council will fight for
its retention will only prove tho inability of the
members of that political morgue to comprehend
Lho progross of a living world. Mon with freo
minds have long ceased to believe that terjury
can be lessened by thq Invocation of Dlvipo attes-
tation. The point lias pisiod beyond the region
of debate ; even the parson-ridden Sydney Echo i
admitting that oaths are useless. If final proof
of tho question ho required, the advocates of Bible-
kissing ncod only go into any of tho Sydney
courts once or twice and listen to tho testimony
given there ; and if such a person has any reipect
for the Deity he wifi admit that it is an outrage
upon the Most High to put Hit name to perjuries
committed us they sometimes are even in cases
where’ less than a£s note is in dispute. Once, the
terror of tho hereafter Invested tho oath with
milting perjury who would not have tpoken tho
truth if ho hod bsen under no such visionary
dm Us theperj ury of liars, ifnd they could just as
easily bo checked and punished If they were only
required teafilrnm Nor Isreren
vritnesvbox will suffer tho punishment now at-
tached to terjury. .
The Jennings' Ministry stands a fair show of
suddenly becoming-adorable in the eies of the
Sydney dafiy morning papers.
UuTsoutiiern passenger-train aloneis responsible.
This train used to start from Kedfern at 'J.6 a.m..
reaching Goulburn at 3.50p.m., and that arrange-
ment suited passengers admirably, but a change
is to be made and the time throughout made toreo
hours earlier. The immediate effect will bo the
sale in the districts nffoctod of a largo number of
Sydney morning dailies whore ovening papers
formerly were bought. Therefore the Herald is
jubilant and inclined to applaud Mr. Lynk. la-
math?ina'di fibre nt light. Why people, especially
rather thaa time saving is an object, should have
to turn out at about 5 a.m. in winter. Is a hideous
Ministerial pet can answer. Once bsfore an ex-
periment wu mudo by atarting tho train at 7 a.m.
.throe days in oacli week, but the blunder was soon
confessed and a return made to the old system.
Mr. Lynk dare now produce the statistics of
passengers two hat arrange-
support of the Herald and Telegraph, but even
with that support lie will, unless very shortly
SvourV those papers may bo 100 dearly bought.
Lying.. a» many people know is not foreign to the
nature of several of tho Sydney daily newspapers.
but since lho sentence of death w-n passed upon
tin- Mount Iterate convicts, lho .-haruoteristio has
been »» largely developed j hat It has
Her nUr'criminals, the newspupen in question
stick at nothing. Knowing that they speuk falsely
thoy do not hesitate to say that all who
sentence parsed on thr prisoners arc in
sympathy with crime, and particularly with tho
crlmo which they committed. That may be
described as lying straight from tho shoulder. A
steelmen of the lie artistic was given a few days
newspapers a paragraph appeared to the effect
f^sod r>or ot <*»{*» ,l “ d absolutely re-
fusal tie circumstance that ho had only been
asked by wire from Sydney to convene a meeting
and that he had not rocelvod a requisition from
any of the cUUcns of (ioulburn ; but ho added
that if such a requisition were sent to him he
* kCC ' 10 ** 10 °* , t ’ ie oi B nil toriea.
information, but they withheld it, and in so doing
consciously lied. ,
Thousands of peoplo have boon wondering how
it happened that the convict Donnkli.an, who,
very Vtorst of the Mount Rennie gang, was ro
readily reprieved by the N.B.W. Executive. It
it is certain that he is said to be distantly re-
htted to a lnoflloo, and It U known
defence and in advocating his ropriovo after ho
had been sentenced. It U further known that at
least half a-doxenmemberaof Parliament were most
strenuous in their private exertions on his behalf.
an early d'ato take the Tully'lnto' 1 its
cogence with respect to the reprieve of tho
CORRESPONDENCE
TatßVLLms will r»tun> all unsuitable MBB. when the
tor the preservation or transmission of Rich
"3. James": Ono can break the Ten Com*
Xitogir.to a cricket club?—“ O, W.
um venersi le old yam. We can onlj hope that when next
hape the cultured Bennett family and the abarehoMen In
the penny journal! at either end of King-street, Sydney,
will see that their hireling! are restrained from so oaenta-
and a damper so eflectual put on the sale of the morning
and erenlng papers that Tfossy Bob and the able editor
“°th.'.pimS*. t brig
W “fSss& would* bera'met**h!m—»^a' 1
rererrooKl instead orhnng'for lat'part'despUed. !?.
" T. Clifford Kltson ” (Ballarat): Many thanks-..- Aleck"
to hand.... "T. Campbell": We oordfally - reciprocate your
Kis^ttkTa , aa&:::-TftS^iJsP
(Wallsend): If (ieorge Dawson is anywhere about your neigh-
bourhood we would like to ace the animal. Send him up....
■Mlutothlng of your own,'
””” ■ *
This U ghastly wooden-legged metre, and the rest la worse.
Aril/ortT: HuX a'reraliuon dole not by any mana'urnrMe
» **§£*s£■
min sue* another for inoney“!md doesn't get It. And though
we hare carofully perused your letter we don't percclte the
footprint of the hsndof geolna on it anywhere.../ 1 liexam
deliberate rioUUoo of t goddess
of Justice...." Henry Dick" (Baimadale). Glad to hear
"Dmde"! Will read your " hope lb get
surprised at the tone of
rielggaty alwaj«fwtl^Und^gS | lMtthe [ paople [ JunS?
of trudery dimes' of
More than half of the grossest seductions lake place amidst
soebdpurist hKetswi"fraud*who ad vintages
himself of his bogus saintliness to discuss with sinister
motives and women subjects which las holy
the Job." With regard to this “ Pastoral Association." This
:
of Rat volume, t«t simply against Its admitted indecency of
repression.... James Smith": Sir Henry Parkesoertalnly
obtained permission for^neW^l jjusalM l Wlthylcw
hu e Tresmrer*to tie the ns tlonaTa ns lioca \ nto alt not. as the
present compsny of political nroHigates have done....
. A.RH.J (Mitlugong): The pulpß denunciation of Tug
woilkMiave* 1 still*. Ktok
d/mvrtng*worse^l'/' X M " ( Wirvdoyerf: Thuln...
SEnSd drola'tort. 141 * 1 T '” r ItCTD “ *


The Referee
IliliiS
Merchant, who won the Carington Athletic
ISSISPs
ItpfiSl
THE "BOB” THAT REPRESENTS, A “SOW[?]”
bo hold this week to dctertnlne whether, ng.shall i
bo disqualified or not under one of the clauses of
the 8.0. C. rules.
Signer Soli is exhibiting his feats of
strength at Bt. George's Hall. Melbourne. Ho is
a gigantic “ little " man with an iron jaw and a
solfsatisfled strut which is in itself an evening's
from tho Signor, after seeing him° swing HOlb!
woight of cannon-balls betwcon his teeth, nor
would wo like to got one in tho cyo from tho
Signor after noting the manner in which ho
axiuettod with a 1801 b. dumb-bell. A. a variety
sho\V man this Italian' oamson U aU there, and
his feats (such as playing “cup and ball” with a
furri h” tiD ® u “ hed by a lot ot
home with cannon* balls thnn D Cannoi| h hlmaolf. re **
Hortenso has settled her claim to be the
best two-year-old Ally in the lard by winning the
Nonnnnby Stakes at the V.R.C. Meeting on
Saturday, carrying Ost. 71b. in 1 min. )A sec.
Tattersall’s Cup was presented to the
winner this year by Lady Carington. Mr. Skar-
rntt, treoanrer of Taltersnll's Club, received the
cup on behalf of Mr. Hrackenreg, the owner of
Tom Brown, her ladyship simply remarking. “ 1
have great pleasure in presenting so handsome a
trophy to the winner." This, we take it, is the
first reported speech mode by Lady Carington in
Hutc)ionn atjain ran unsuccessfully at Par- '
ramattaon Saturday.
Cannon appears to hohl Sali pretty cheap
f° r wrestling match of the 22nd. He ha.
to limit ground-wrestling to^twoudnutes 1 ! B \Vith
and marrow of Grteco-Itoman wrestling appears to
££££ o°n
the carpet till the Crack of Doom without any
appreciable advantage on oither side being gained.
fcvWcntly, then. Cannon regards the Pignor as a
soft thing.
“ Editor BuLMTur, —Sir, I am fishing in
Tasmania and this to what occurred tho other day
Lsi&thiSr;? i»ii. bob,, ox.
cteinngiy one this year. I threw tho grasshopper
in and he Instantly made for the op site bonk,-
S& wir:-
ablg shores unless Tom Cannon will consent to
wrestle him for "love” and gate-money. It
really looks as though wo should lose Donald, and
our tears are flowing fast. According to his ac-
count, the police have marked him for their own.
and his " ruin " has been deliberately compared
by the wicked men in bluo. As Shakespeate
dldn t exactly observe : *-• // 'tis true ’Us pity and
pity 'tls if ‘tis true.- After all, it seems that
Cannon trill wrestlo D.D. for the gate.
JV'Wallacc efeis to alrata any-
body for the championship of the world si a Mel-
bourne rink. There is a certain sublimity about
me impudence of this cbollarge.
tore fivc a ' x>ri K ina l *prin-
k* 01 U ”
At tho cricket match at Wellington,-N.Z..
«?*on^eftfouroftheir B ° l thel f °PP° ,lt ' nla
locai 22 while the remaining eight took advantage
of a cheap tripup country to enjoy themselves.
Mr. Hagon, a New Zealand sport, having
bought tho racer " Miss Woodford “ for breeding
KU . id tr ! eai k, ‘Btfestcd it would
no desirablo- undor tho circumstances to change
‘ Vri ‘ Woodford.” This reminds us
months after, he returned the prise money toabe
And tayiog he regretted to
and his mare was not n maiden at the time she
won tho stakes, as she had just foaled, but he was,
he entored'her 1 ° f a, ' y lntcntlon to deceive when^
N'S-W-
-lark, a goodhmj kLO*' Whethor 11 was done for a
done. Afri-ud of his wrote "to'him introducing
a pleasant-looking intelligent Knglishman as a
possible buyer of blood stock. He met the Eng
lishman and drove him to Hobartvillo and had all
their progenitors, and the mighty achievements of
ta, Ujj wonld-bo
s * s ” *
him ivrTk M Town, do you want to see
stead a. h. ul lll *^”. to P r milw 10 boms-
went, and The PrTnra <yf hires'was p i reded * 7 “jij 7
Before ho rode his last nice, Archor spent'
HgfUggf
flpllISII
EH”SSSe£?=S
Jfci.i'S&iHLt/i'


SUNDRY SHOWS
THFATax Royal—"Tbaßlssplosßesuty" .. .. n 4«
ALHAMBRA M
Tho hoary old “ Shaughraun ” is again to
at e o”ety”and"uio short’oMhe mucT
married author Blands about with a club anil
fbMhehouv) ■jJtrdoeM.'t irquhro to br.ln^any^d'y,
cteraif 'at tvroiKtnw a clap ' Tho** a *"
tically when tho two orphans moot tteir long lost
relative,^boohoo; when tho fat, unctuous, badly-
that stretches netoes tho vart tangled wild<mo:s
tho dog embezzles an Indispensable
red headed man's pants and renders it impossible
made his humble crust by Hogging small boys in a
school in Now Zealand. His front name 'was:
UJte; his' hair resembled a
on the scalp of a red ass, and ho usod to sit by tho
uttering hollow, heartrending groans. He is
dishes and carry coals and split wood, and turns
Bint Into an abject beast of burdon, Buch is life.
Util* return to our subject.
Tho two leading characters appeared at
their best in tho “ Shnughraun." Mr. Taylor, as
Conn, broke the logs of reason and docked the
la'l of common sense, but ho was wonderfully
and attractive than usual; Mr. Nunn took the
part of the police spy and made that bright red
worm an object of lo.ithing; and the other
show, and more°nurn£rous *'The
•'fcven Ui n *'t WlU #° babl> ' l,o tbo noxl Production
size of the the management can only
«uit < oustom hOU! d happy 10 dl ®P O9O ot 1,1 IoU t«'
ous mers. ## # #
Wo have met a good many curious inci
many other men who were like who 'the* victims
of fate atd got strangely knocked about in conse-
quence. One of them, for example, was a good
and pious individual, and be was elected to Par-
liament because every drunkard, liar, hypocrite.
horse-Shitf, dog thief, forger, and swindler lathe
district fell over hit own feet In his frantlo hurry
to vote for h'm and when, In sp’te of tho exer-
tions of this cohort things looked a little dcubtful,
the Ude was turned by tho energy of a man who j
had murdered his wife and got off through a flaw
In the evidenoe, and who killed his horse by gal-
oping CO miles to put the “ religious " candidate
In or perishtfn the attempt. Another of our sc- j
qualnjances had a still stranger and more bles<od
experience; heenjoyedthe privilege of w heeling an
totprfwtod duke home in a barrow, and he kept a
Similar things have happened to us occasionally] ’
andeven at the present moment wo arc in love
remark that all tho stran’go thicgs'w’e'havo heard
or seen In the course ot our careor do not evon 1
UKln to approach tho number of strange things
U»t are crammed into "Falka,” which is still
booming at Bydney Criterion,
Thero is something very remarkablo and
very grotesque about the characters in this opera.
Tancred, the boro,- is a beaming, soft-head d
rollicking combination of tho clown and the lout, 1
his gaiety ho has mado bis living
OQM°M^i* e gn j°* ome P OBl of infant a wisher in a
unseemly In a schoolmaster he I
down a cellar in the fleit act' and fat’s on top of a
dianer-service. Governor Folbach is a solemn and
Staled fool who looks unspeakably Imposing
when attired in bis frogged dishrsg of stato, and
H.^ earir , U>r " o,r hU Ugs w** hls own dignity.
«e seems almost proof against surprise, no matter
what may tnrn up, and when a pot boy, whoso
bib is decorated with crumbe and elope, hails him
“ JW be only smiles contemptuously.
I<JT » r . Arthur, Is the.hero of anslopement,
b« hs U hardly fitted for tho billot. Ho Is a
fresMy-spanked schoolboy with a blue moulded
if Ulto, to, .to
as if he had been hroufeht up on the bottle.
Brother Pelioan, too, 1b grotesque to tke last
“•Pee- He is a whistling pantaloon who has
meo-Unohod himself into second childhood, and
In °“* views have been evidently steeped
Ke»v an k, * p thom from turnl “g bad. Mr.
Kelly HHi the part of Pelican admirably, and be-
p7eT feS 2^. hto 18 Mfr occn.
“wM.'tU? B00r **» ■«wceM 7 M <> T?*^4d
nature of the animal wi“l * H * ht ** th °
V "» *?,? pre,ent 6ur to Signor
* wultitude of gore. Aid, lastly lllss
bearthat tlnds iteclf located 100 miles from the
i B ®ss?hSg
firstappeyance, and theelephant,
ter* which charnc '
end of big knotty 1
hangs together. In the original
we * hU rantoWlnlo
scatß. Occasional!^ B they* were
rushed by the small boys of that
early era. and in those days of
the Annldm a small boy was
eleven feot high, and a fasting
girl weighod a ton, to that to to
skulldragged by these primeval
larrikins was a serious affair, but
generally things went pretty
smoothly. It says a great deal
for tbo piece that it should have
preserved itr popularity so loDg.
Whittington ’ and
form the attraction at *Bydn*y
Royal Standard. The pair have
been hashed up and glued to-
Mr. lance Lenton, and the™suit
is a marked success. We do not
luiow exactly how he hashed up
wllh'a U tomah^» ly d ° ‘ l
when we have finished the Job
we would defy anyone to put the
animal on the ttage in less than
three pieces. Tho pantomime Is
well mounted and has proved, so
Bovls* who takMTthe part of
Pussy, has a beautiful long tail
which he swishes round In a very
intelligent manner, and thero is
an affectionate look in his green
eyes which is really touching.
The lay of hU whiskers, too, is ex-
ceedingly elegant, and ho Is well
supported by tho fairies, imps,
yellow dwarfs, rats, and assorted
goblins of the company.
th W Bl “ub Hi l ck n , ot< 3i! hat
view at Maiket Street, Sydney”
The moral tone of the city is so
lamentably low that an exhlbl-
several angels, and Death, cannot fail to prove of
great eorvloe, and there is an interest attaching
want Ing*in d |^ eliBl ° Ua 8^ enc >' w hlch is sadly
fee is taken for admission in order’to keep’riS!
devil a UU t ere wed on, and llqulda-e other charges
1 .*'#**
The perspiration streams off the ticket-
takor at the Sydney Academy as the inforinfed
njuiiac-a lush lo nee the Kedorals or
scenery, and the o'her mentbo s of the company
K° one beßerfay k trending thejr jaws right across
motnphor. ”
As the human soul may one day get
wearied of hash or manna, or an) thing else, hpw-
I over agreeablo. Mr. Rogers—who, by a gilded
figure of speech is supposed to manage tho un-
! manageable Tina of “My Sweetheart"— hss
bought from Mr. St Maur the right to produce
| Pinero's comedy, the “Schoolmistress," for sis
months at Sydney Opera House. Mr. St. Maur
has also sold the New Zealand rights of “ Jim rite
Mr. S. Churchill Otton, the energetic
■ promoter
of a monster benefit offered him by appreciative
! artists on Saturday next at tho Exhibition Hall.
I where the itite pt the Sydney artistic world are to
An electrified and paralysed nudienco con-
I and *”1 he 'collaristricken 'dude “npw
Minnie Palmer, because it is the fashion to do so,
and he Is always in the fa-hion. On the stage.
Minnie's lovers follow her about with a stiffened
highly o Llnted S -pa.rttchu“c f'yi'adJcy* Haroourt goes
into a seventh hcavon add comes out of it sud-
denly when ho is banged'on tho head wlih tho
watering-pbt and goU a quart of finid poured into
his shoo*; and Minnie's lovers altogether have a
ghastly time of it. Mr. Roberts, as Tony Faust,
has about the best show among the down-trodden
crowd. psrtof Uw right-
Chop; and MUa Ada Murray makos something
out S 5
Ljator and Miss Grey
Mlnnioa guardian., and nothin* but their taUer
metal constitutions save* them from an earlv
Hq MJ of Vd°gm£f £
*# # #
d m" Ap P' eby ' ,' vbo appeared pi “ the
gSg* l "* , when “ Kalka" was flrat produood
the CaSng (mbnl
*" ,h ' “• drtmMo
encketa will change the tone of tholr chirp.
#* * t
Theatrical competition is waxing fast and
furious In Melbourne. Pantomlmo U filling tho
Itoyal (up to now), and Miss Fanny Roblna la
knocking «m at the Opera House In the London
auooess, "Little Jack Shepherd." " Mikado "la
* fff* •* ®ow IMnctaaa and George Dar
relit, doing fairly well, and promlioa to do better
ing like a green bay tree, and looks healthiest of
tie whole lot. all round prosperity can't
keep up Us returns bolter than the rest* ourUtUe
bit would be put on the opera. Whioh proves
that •“culchaw" is spreading jn these part* like
the smallpox or a bush fire.
*# * *
Mr. Aid reel, wig-maker, of Launceston,
my wig immediately ho will'hear more nbouUu"
“sswws'SHSiSßs*
If not-mll AMred's sot hUhalr off^
It is on the cards that Nellio Farren will
NeUiofor a suooaSul ooioniaJtoim, °md she ought
m a kind of
they die. In another quarter of a century we
mention Sims Reeves and a host of other Juveniles
** * *
It is again rumoured that gifted “ Sa’ly ”
Bernhardt intends paying Australia a yialU Three
things nre indispensable to the traytltienne when
ehe travels ; her- pet dog, her coffin, and
her latest thing in male admirers. It anything
were to happen-w Clio "dlvlteocej oveMiore—
male admirer and the dog, and send her back- to
Yurrup In her own little b«x. It is unpleasant to
discus > those painfnl possibilities, but all flesh is
be* very little grass on the angular scaffolding of
Sara, judging from her portraits.
** # *
Listen to the calm way in which a New
a capital B always) .
charaCttf'of «skMu° ol S£ n {!!‘^
cwl«M*ln oputrocl*.incTths I*A "list'apiwX tatbemrt ro
“ The heavenly obaraoter of its heavo " Is just tho
nr plus ultra at descriptive phraseology. We
have seen nothing equal to It since I’hil. M'Cari-ol's
bard—or was it Alfred Allen!—wrote of the
"soughing sweetness of'a sigh."
The English Church and Stage Guild
r^«es W who rI WMU^ M f rtod by 801,10 "Xi-beadei
softheaded actresses who wanted*to
waa*tho ln ' mcdiato cause of roll«u«~e
declined to associate “
their living by their heels (meaning thereby a
whote lot °f things unmtntioned) rather than by
the trouWe! These clfra C “ Vy W ‘"‘ 0,8 b “*° ° l
StUeB* h ar ° 6lD,ply lrrci,l#uw « by TotUea and
** # #
George Darrell’s latest—the New Push-
bag burst upon the world at Melbourne Bijou.
George's oJdrepmaUon as’ j^f 7 “* set ' tor
that word irtr.i) a bit agin him ** Jiu* wbsl te?
whispered to the four winds, proclaimed from
the house tops, and murmcrcd in the market
places. Unit the • • Now Rush - is Good, with a big
O. then will an astonished public plank its willing
mfrafl’on hII ° lh ° welkl " rtDKa wl,h ™*w ul »d
Th”trattil“u , out
o^l?e o S£idnSs^ to,_
, 1^
Decidedly laralya-iojjf'
K^r^Ca'r^or^t^Suci^t^iii^u?^^
an idioUc name. There arc trying moinenu°wh'm
“•,»»* °! the company liavo to stand around
while Karl unburdens his thest of moral, plati-
tudes and copf-book maxims. Rut thcro are
other and lively moments, when brickbat* darken
tl.e air and bold policemen basl. an infuriated
mob ; wlieit' the j iUain shoves a woman into tho
; ' !; ■■ ■;
back the favourite when if la atHTand tavfffte
dice carefully loaded by tl.e %Hluln.'~Noifira» y
11°•'bank 10 'bod'd?" d '' ,,U " lly DAl ", n,ll >'ho'bcxxle*
K«i chuoksU« t vi^i lhla 't Vhd|-
iloos another nine months. That’s 'because
have married Karl’s wife in the
I'and and' 'art. Then everybody goes S?totho
| Now Rush (probably Tcetiilpa) and things end
pleasanUy. Mrs. Karl's suWed Urn husband is
claimed by a dissipated ft male fashioned after
The repentant Caradoo IlAls a nugget wifghing
ha, thrown ho»ri i |iod l »iilinto > t2j
work. Old situations are Imbued with now life
thanks to enthusiastic supers and tho cunning
hand that directs them. The play nevor drags
except when the principals are preachi eg. Rut
after all, their dry speeches are only os small
desert islands dotted about in a bouLdieg sea of
bustle. Tho chief faults of Mr, Darrell os an
actor are, too much padding about tho shoulders
and a habit of carrying his top half like Goorge
Uariy°h!i own? ' ttBBtyl ° |,ocu
>«“& “™'r“J^,VSr£
ractcr, and Miss Maggie Knight lacks ’ go" os
ft^ontioned°?nd :d iho C co 0 n | 1S ”” t Chol> “
ular Australian author-actor’s"
“ .. b “L f “ v “ °! rco ““ I ' IDC « = George
the New Rush" to Bir Henry
## # *
I 01 “Dorothy,” tho comic opera which Mr.
I Dtsi“ ,l^ I1 ‘' , " aalcall y
o n» l '*U , n«rr o thrcS^ , tk n,hClll<on ‘ tn ‘ Cl '' l " com ' ,, »
f■ f * t^Lt i| llut ‘hi. Strangs arran*e.
Lidy tie Clifford, a representative of one
Hicatre. Her ladyship has Tot?ofmoney, bm be"
vulgar crowd-mate*.her IIU a bdkt In which, but
amidodging the playin' Ropky Mountain bcarwhon
now hurrying homeward at’ streak-oNHghtoiiig
speed to kick the lady and putt her In a lunatic
asylum.
** # *
Theatrical managers of an economical turn
of mind and most musicians will be pleased to
know that the copjndght of Wallace's *• Marita na "
hardt saye that U is "an admitable4lkeneu, bring
Sara she hasn’t had any character
"Th* rc mr ® n ® "Tctchcd supers brought into
Hamlet at the kranvais. The very figurantes
were carefully selected, and' the young girls at
Opholfa’a burial wore chosen Tor their maidenly
WarfiflY «y» G»o Paris'* correspondent of tho
more of this kind of thing In Sydney ! ***?'
COMPARISON.
C* TONS OK RAPEK


RUBBISH MAY BE SHOT HERE.
"LET US RANO THESE SIX RUFFIANS FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE WIVES AND DOUGHTER AND MOTHERS OF AUSTRALIA. "-Sydney Evening Newspaper Moralists.


That Dinner Invitation-An Exclusive Premier
SIR PATRICK (Thoughtfully): "YOU SEE YOUR EXCELLENCY THE OUT TO ASSOCIATE WITH A LOT OF VERY ORDISARY PEOPLE IN THE CABINET BUT THATS [?]
MATTER OF BUSINESS I WOULDN'T THING OF [?]TING THEN ON
[?]PRO [?]RINGTON: "NO, PRECISELY-[?] TO BES[?][?]-THAT IS TO SAY-OF COURSE-I F[?]MEFCTLY ITSDERSTAN[?]"


Society
The Sydney lady undertaker, we aro glad
to learn, la at 111 In full blast and pro-poring. She
has already burled two husbuds^andJaaUU prs-
shorteet notice. v Thla enterprising female also
ahe advert!tea her corpse-planting business on the
paper fruit-bags. Consequently the cuatomer who
carries home a packet of unripe bar anas at mid-
night, and alta up to deTOur bis purchase, la apt
to get a sudden shock that makes him grow stiff,
and then after reading the gruesome “ ad." two
or three times over ho tries to reoolloct whether
the fruit was handed to bim out of a coffin, and
whether these strawberries and the accompanying
f cream were dished up In a skull or a sauoer. On
reciprocal principles this lady would no doubt
make the undertaking businen advertise the
fruit establishment If that were possible, but un-
happily not even the cheapest funerals are per-
formed on the paper-bag basis, and publlo preju-
dice make! it lnadvlaablo to send round a China-
To get a cup of tea at Naples costa half-a-
tlmes the sum. Our thirst la not built that way.
A year ago a very good man named George
Dawson, residing near Durham (Eng ), went bad—
as bad as the wreck of a six months' killed kan-
garoo. He was a hard-praying, hard-preaohlng
and he preached and prayed himself Into^Uio
leaving his own wife in the lurch. This good man
and the other man's wife are now rhlnlng In Aus-
tralia, and an English paper pub'lthes a letter
from him to a “dear brother In Christ,'' In which j
he complains that his Australian brethren won't
take them in, “ because of bis elopement being In |
the papers." Of such la the kingdom of eternal
What hostess was it skid to Lord Bortio j
at the door of a supper-room,
Baumahn'st" Echo answers, “WhoI”
Tile Warlike soul of the Cornstalk is again I
rising. Three officers of the N;BW. Permanent I
Force want to go on full-pay lo help In the Bur-
mese murder, and they also desire that their goat-
hunting billets may be kept open for them If they
desire to oome back again and rest On their i
Government, on the other hand, are quite willing
that they should go, but they don't wish to insult
these heroes by offering them filthy luo'e, and as
the heroes Insist on the insult—in cash—ad’ffl-
nigger from being slain In oold blood.
A London cl.rgyman, who owns a wife
and family, was shaken np a little the other day
when a woman rushed pulpit and
ling.” Some people thought for a moment that
the parson was a Mormon In dlrgulse,' but it
proved Jhe lady was a Shewed
did not marry her, but he let her donate him
£lO,OOO and then clearod.
An eminent scientific beggar in London is
now engaged on ronderlng^Afri-
fortune by bleaching wealthy niggers. It now
transpires that the oolour la by “ hydride
tract elghteen-pennofth of metal from each
patient In the process of whitening.
Our culled brudder is coming tq,the front
A troop of A asfraUan aboriginals have Just given
a sacred oanoort in Melbourne The blxckfellow
who Is a Wesleyan, Is a dreadful humbug.
In the Daylesford (Via) district a gay
young spark eloped recently with a girl, but at* or
a hot pursuit the young lady was captured by her
gay young man also returned, and a few days later*
he eloped with the girl’s mother. There was no
pursu't this time, for the injured husband was
terrified at h's foe's persistency, and feared that
if ho Interposed again he might elope with the
aged grandmother and the house dog and all the
A lady of pious aspect presented herself at
(he bathhouse at Te Aro ha | the
awayat any" moment. The attendant said that In
that case tho lady had better think twice before
venturing Into the not water. The immediate
sequence," replied tho Invalid with a saintly and
slightly patronising smile; “/am hot afraid; I
trust I shall tie found ready whon I am called."
holy visitor's measure right there. " Very' likely,
you seo if tojoiUn tho bath It
type of Christian IS alarmingly prevalent.
A Prude, lately from England, objects to
Canal on the score of their “ indecent manipula-
tion of their clothing." Ye gods ! Must the pic-
turesque be always sacrificed to the decent I
Wc asked a Sydney bride on a hot morn-
ing last week if she would bo afraid if a thunder-
storm came during the day 1 “ Oh, no I" she
lisped, “not now. I would have boon yesterday
because Willie was out, but he is at home to-day."
We went sorrowfully away pondering if her Wil-
liam vrai an Improved lightning-conductor.
An advert ; sement recently appeared in
the London Timm worded In a way to touch *
tender chord In every reader's heart- The ad.
w*s Inserted on behalf of a young couple who
oonmiand°nt e least £100," and would like a few
friendly-disposed porsons to plank down the.
hymeneal coin and “moke them happy for life.
The claims of this young couple on the coffers of
the charitable are undeniably s' rong. It Is annoy-
ing to to wanting to get married when you can t.
Wo have experienced the Musatlon ourolTW.
'Twos only a i«ltry " tivor"
dent. Tho thought of advertising nevor occurred
to Clara and us. .and so -but these arc sol
memories. Thoro is thing, however, that we
young couple. They won't be able to dlvo^j
Love is an expensive article in each of Hostages—
from the altar to the witness-box.
At a Sydney concert recently a red-heoded
girl stood up, opened her sevon by-nlne mouth,
and howled, “Dear heart I 1 did not dream that
we should p a-r-t" (high Q). She ought to have.
Doubtless tho lover proposed in the dnrk and
whon he saw those hair and that freckles his
inner oooeoiousnesi couldn't act up to it. We
*** h, “% • r-s-
Here is an item for frisky old Australians
Qriohols, residing at Paris, recently kicked his
tottering old wifo into the streets and forced her
to moke a living by bogging. Thereupon a per-
, verier of Justice In polioo nnifonn came along and
wanted an explanation—and he got It. Grichols
simply sold that the old lady was shrivelled and
skin-dried and that he would profor a fcmalo who
I could radiate k little more heat. She had loot all
j her teeth, too, and mumbled and gobblod In an
I fleet—which the inviolably plontwl In
took at-night—were always cold. The policeman
I grew profane at this lunoture and dragged tho
Parisian before a Gallic beak who called hint tod
names, and the pair aro again living together.
Brisbane gossips are on “tip-toe" of ex-
pectation for the hearing of a big prospective
divorce suit, which may or may not oomo into
Court. ...
An engagement is out in London o. Miss
Mary Bidney, daughter of Mr. Charles Sldnoy,
late of Sydney, to Captain H. a Gundry. Koyal .
Artillery.
THOUGHTFUL SWELL: “I'M JUST GOING DOWN
THE HARBOUR. SO THIS SHOULD DO. THOUGH
TRAVELLING IS GETTING. AWFULLY DANGEROUS
FOR I MIGHT HAVE TO TRUST TO HIM AFTER
ALL."
The marriage of Mr. Edward T. Wise,
eldest son of the late Mr. Justice Wise, of Sydney,
and MUs Aimoe Vaughan Selby, eldest daughter
of Mr. Prldeaux Belby. of Koroit. Croydon,
England, took place on November 10th at 8u
Saviour's Church, Croydon, England.
Lord Colin Campbell and Lady Campbell
" spooned" only for throe days More marriage.
Marry in haste and repent in the Court.
“_Tho Woman's Suffrage Bill will,”- wo
read, “shortly bo again before tho British Com-
monfl."
Mrs. James Brown Potter, the African
unprofessional beauty,
lJish-*p Luck, of Auckland. N.Z., a.kr.l
to consider the question of rebuilding tbeihtib-
d leu no odlti.o Tho Mayor decl'ned ; wher-upon
tho rt.'hop a*ked the ex-Major, who also rofajod.
subscription* for rotestant place of worship
of courts Catholics nny receive n»> noy from
hercUos for tho building of Catholic places of
worship or for any other objects tending to
further tho True Faith (this in huge capita's),
but it Is against tholr religion to givo either
money or aid for the erection of non-Cnthollo
churches,” Ac., &c. And now the Auckland papers
All with oorrotpondence aeent this well-known
peculiarity of our Homan Catholic fellow-citUena.
A lady who lectures on “ Woman’s Rights ”
in Victoria thinks that women ought to retain
their raaldon names after thoy marry, tho retains
Many high-toned persons in N.S.W. w»H-
be interested to learn that Rons Raymond, Esq., a
fat and lemon who got into nlUhe
with /aluclci* years ago, has
.he edited tlie lies nnd-blnsphcmy department of n
hard hitting journal, till the advent of an actor
publications.’ At Cincinnati a person In the circus
businoss cast him down st*ir* on his head and
shortly afterwards he retired to make stoves and
perform other useful work in gaol. In 187.7, ho
lion of a railway accident, written purely from
.Imagination and fol’owod by a whole column of
| deaths and broken legs,
marrying a lady worth
New York undjo'nedlhe
IlKtt.wn. ‘Here ho attrac-
scriptions of the shooting
of President Garfield, whom
entlrc P kcg ‘’oTbolTcts.
and represented as being
that bo hod to be carried
tbTcVr ajU f a ” d u took
knew to piece the mangled
again. irmrrie.l
another mail's wife, having
sued* he als<?^mbbshed'k
Si-* ' olen fmnT^rU-nd:
and, finally, he fled, leaving
New
'with !his' l s , mn , jin"'ltay 1
H°"| l j k’li'T -dccorut imilf
lowrmth-CTorcvc^U^buta^^oth^toS^
and then lie lectured in Sydney. on-liiS Kalian
ndVenture* -for the benefit oTa charily" and got
all Potts Point to negotiate hi* paiier. because ho
After 8 ra!‘n"i "‘ rl ff bank-hours. .
a Ijco-line forPnris, whoro he passed as Raymond
Bey. a sort of foreranner of the (Khedive. Ho
made his landlord get together übout £2OO worth
making >"> «»W friend- who heM ..no of his dls-
1. .n..nro<Ujllls, Fiirnlly ho w..s bowleS out in a
Klu!Ssl!itn^7 will iiuEcpSS
dcMnt'b^rdorl^o^th 0 S^ r ;‘ a "*- Mtt i or U
weeks ago a certain N.S.VV. Cavalry Corps were
honoured with Insjec- oo by "Oenrral • Richard-
°hii b Mi qw,Bi '
the Upper Clarenco Light Hor-o Coi fm havo hnd
MaJo*. Wo have boon in tho army, 1m t
heard of a Sergeant " Inspecting " his superiors,
tho commissioned officers of a troop ; it is not
done beyond tho bounds of N.S.W. The Upper
Claronoe boys sat down to u spread after tho
" inspection." and our readers will please to ob-
sen-e the ordor in whioh tho first throo toasts wore
given- “The Queen " ‘ The Royal Family.” and
"Sergeant-Major Thompson! ”
The Sydney Scottish Rifles don’t like tho
idea of the kilt at all. We don't wonder. Judging
from tho apiHHirnnoe presented by thladistingulshod
regiment at a recent parade in tho Domain, we
would advise them to eschew tho phUibor
JjKllttc’," like poets, arc born, not made : ami
nature has not endowed tho raombors of Uie
.S.ait., as u rulo, with legs sutllcientiy developed
for tbo wearing of tho Hit. If it is decided to re-
tain tho trows, wo hope tho regimental authorities
mlluTon'e third* o'f "the’I*' 1 *''o''"'’" 0 ''"'’" Sr ° provided tor
lamentably delicient in that portion of tho anaton*
vyhioh points east whon thoir noets ore turned to
tho setting sun.
I Scene —swell dinner-party at the elegant
| <^j a l "^ t of^”' di^ , h al ‘ i lpr °^ I| of “ th * Point."
M. I strongly advise you *to fry ft." °Mr» M M.
(who has been stoking herself freely during tho
high-toned repast: "Oh no, my iloar, I must de-
cline this Umo. There .ready is a . limit to the
Many people labour under, the delusion
that the Great Eastern is the biggest shi|. which
ever sailed the seas. Bui has It never struck
Australia that the boat in which William tho
Conqueror arrived In England must have been at
least eight times as large t \> l.onover, now-a-
days. a pork-buudier or soapboiler becomes rich
and wants to get into "sassiety," it is always his
country " io the train of the rcdoubtaolo William,
whore passenger-list of reptiles and emwlers
Noah's. Sixty Great Easterns wouldn't havo
l<f carry tho aacosto*of the Australian
acknowledge —when in England, anyhow—that
he is related to any other C.M.G.
Tho Very latest alxmt the representative
in England la that one of tho genus,
tho Duke of Wellington, the other day. remarked
as he looked out through a hall window on the
never-ending stream of trafllc rolling past : "Tho
you've got th - honmibutos right agin yor own
Tho English globe-trotter's very recent-
most fabrication is that while travelling lnQueens-
was tar*tedaru nißht 'b * “ qi J at, ) o . r ’ 8 hut ,tU> ’ and
,hls scat he inquired : " W hat pointsTo which
hU partner replied. In a tone of significant sur-
prise at such a question : "Why, the usual game.
rubber." Ananias was evidently a very much
overrated porformor In his particular »i>eciallty.
Poor Lome ! This is the kind of thing
you read in the America papers 6
" The Prince.. Louise b*. been here (Afx-IM-Baiiu) for %
ShuxffftJir "with h^i h *.. b la? ,Wt 10 tt*.* oool *-
-at tha VUU the
h.lfZhouiZh? Iwch'm“p,‘-!.ch C^, ,« '££
Odi-can. tbe Duchess of Manchester. l.id, MsndeTille. snd
J.inr. Gordon_Bcn n«tt ,“**1 DX- The process isarsry
She dresses .imply but bmoaSndy? snd* rasies* ifo'plebrn'-
ofS^- Indt * d ' ,ho “ ,r -‘ TrUiD * “ ‘b« Countera
Mr. Farquhar, of Chriatchuroh (N.Z.), is a
adve?°*cTrcums'a bCCn b ° J ° lly nndor very
lias obtained two proUjltionmdore against
im. her complaint being blasphemy. wnllopiDg,
At I l^°t Kre rd indulgcnco In the flowing bowl,
remorse, and, settling some property on the re-
mains of tho shattered fomale, he fled from the
scene. Lost June, however, he returned to Christ-
churehju** a’tcmp ed to board with his wife, but
that lady having contumed.her victuals in peaoe
t^dlgTlfalT^h^kn^W;-
wr**’ fniTback to ’ h ' B fd ' h | Ur- bul J uSt tt?>o
a-now difficulty presehted itself. Tho 'andlord,
who seems to havo been an ac 'ommodating man,
seized and auctioned every stick of the lady's pro-
perty for rent, and the assets were bought In by
Mrs. rarquliar's brother.-who placed Mrs. K. iu
charge as his agent, and whon Farquhar came
alcng ha was mot with contempt, bod language,
opprobrium, a bootjack, a bucket of water, and a
dog, or words to t>at e float. Farquhar. however,
't h °" r *' d “ rin * whlch tlnieho
would not havo known it As a result ho spent
ten weeks in a pestilential prison, but being ac-
recovered°£ ■*"fug^' j, an h “ , "" i> ' for « nd
sgain. and threw his brother in'law's oloUjesopt
of tho window <o that that gentleman was unable
decency. Tim vicim.
hunted -up a necktie, or gone down to the court
hidden behind an umbrella, for wo next find him
laying on Information for treats. But tho


£&£*• earliest opportunity. #
' Of *u entertainments under the sun,
surely the most dreary wo experienced »nen re
ligious folk* try to white .go, when
enthusiasts. who had organised
entertaining p orfo°nuince which left the
fSjSS 0 m had been to.
£S?’ The mystery we. •£** *£■?*""
explaining Oat■ »t »“ “ ° f *
with f*« «*•» and * nu . 0 •
The pictures, temstrij* J“ n
Urior decorations for the new Uarlte palace on
the Wellington Parade, hast Melbourne, are oi
lh *°° roPto
A ‘Stoi E t 2‘ Unpl ® o °faSSi?ho?^sS
embejSshed in overy jowslblo way
byword for iml * oa,^^ | , n t^
of his wive*. # «
Lord Deerhurst, the last imported Vic-
u°the life and soul of all entertainments ho patron-
The marriage of the
Hon. Chari Ci Nelson.
NeU»n./»Rh
S?o take *placo on the
12th of thla IDo “ t^J ie^ o
SffV be" Mlae K.
Miseea Gray Smith, niece,
of the bride; and Ihe
bridegroom will ba ao-
bjMr?Campboll McKellar
ef dtrat hkalUr. The bride-
m h&- brother, Lord Tra-
falgar, has no children.
Lord Trafalgar married
Hies Dalgcty, of Mai-
bourne. ' # • #
m 2£ u S2“S
o^'any 1 " other Australian
jsja stuss
abletalcnts and a good
deal of ambition, and
with the ball at her feet,
as It Is, ought to And life
very fair. The wife of
the futurebaronet aspires
to take a prominent place
in English society on har
approaching honeymoon
£30,000 handed by Sir
his wodding-dny will
A rumour has been
be vouched for, that one
plated visit to Australii
of the celebrated 11. M.
fc's oTsat'
gulshed traye lar 1* said
to be engaged or about
to be engaged, to a young
Victorian lady belonging
to a leading family, vrho
has made residence in Australia nnecessary Condi- |
tlon fur obtaining heMiand. -BnnM^SSom
Tims snaps tho Globe's “ Madgo " :
Sf ** ““^“ d r
Wnans'dresi Is ne*£ the 'arorage man doesn’t
care a damp whether it is made of cream satin
trimmed wl'h awre blue Chantilly Uco.> jjte>ovrji
v"?he?duc S "So* j<Ar » » welL
Memo from Melboumo to Sydney, dropped
into a box by mUtajre “ Tend'Mm'
Ba ho Lorf Dmiloy SwMt JZ- ?a.£iSS»'wS
in Chancery, so that any fair Austrana.
catches him before rtTaSSt and
' sentenced to stand on one lon for
thon to bo eaten by a crooodtle. This is «t > J.
really, for Lord Dudley hasan^i^ni^^ 1 * 1 »
ihShhe ffjmt'dd eShW be married In
Bnjfiand:
It is not ivory day that wo oqrao »!*£**
heroine, but Mr*. Jd no
'a cow had beon*ehot. and beet
was missing, w the Ideal conalable visited the
humble house of Cornelius (be It evor m lowly 1
making Inquiries. He was Just In time to see |
hurry, end giving chase ho found that lady sitting |
down admiring tho beauties .of nature, hut he
! could net find out at lira what she was kitting
‘ upon. She teemed, however, to be In considerable
: pain, and tears of anguish rolled down her cherics
In her misery. Hut thaholllcious lrdifidual would
when he had gen'ly fcut firmly got her into a
sundlng position he captured a piece of beef, boil-
ing hot. and apparently Just rescued from the pot,
tho castfron cow that grazos round the lake of
fire and brimstone, and though her husband was
find £3, It was worth twioe the money to be the
proud possessor of such a wife, even though sheik
BUSH PARS.
A N.Z. papor remarks in a casual way
apropos of Kimberley and delations of the same
description, that there are still a few old pioneers
in that colony with largo ragged holes In their
ears which they find it bard to account for. As a
rule they put them down to bullets, boomerangs,
misdirected spears, and the like, but their-friends
talk sarcastically of a habit the early diggers had
of getting hold of anybody who started a-"store-
keepers rush" and dragging him roundly the
Beetohoba,"and th“nailing him by the head to a
bullock-dray. They generally left him alongside
the dray all night, and then In the morning When
the vehicle was wanted they would tear him off
by the legs. The opinion in these early days was
that this treatment promoted a healthy moral tone
in the community, bdt tho tattered and dilapidated
condition of the old pioneer's ears could never be
c v.rcd, exrept by amputation.
THE RABRIT QUESTION-AN ABORIGINAL IDEA.
[?] WHAT [?] MY [?]
[?]
S^£ c ig r: HH b £ils
yards a” da) beasy. Of oourco, if
make good pay yon mo it sec as your ».onos v
down for you on a proper piece of ground. Uet
the drayman to hompty hi* load Just whero you
w.nu It. The toh
sounding! rightln the
mffbutyou ean
get out Übytaking your solemn haffildary that
whatsomevor to tho transaction, oh. yes ;1
austero not to say mirth through
might
flSHfii
howlon^P^mlnont'member of ParlUn.ent wUi
bo in twisting round of*ishoop At
formation required iw to tho
for market next year can bo Just aa easily esti-
mated as Daily Tklwjbaph political of the year i
after next. But the gay stock-inspector dangles
hi* hjT printed ctronM-7"Whatjs the eetloyt ed |
dingoes on STtxm, or even to yard them once a
year and earmark them, isaimply an
invitation to Insanity. And most e<iuatter^are
periodically. If they did^therOgVrou^probably
life ’yorth living after they had been earmarked
with a Winchester Hilo. Which is. we estimate,
the kind of eat marking the stock-1 BspOotorswcmM
The Gippsland blackfollow has idea* of his
own on the subject of Provldehoe. A few Bdn-
b ullock,°Ham? wentTuTflahlng on Lake Tyers.
j though, having bsen trained to a knowledge of
| tbo Bcriptnrcs lyr the episcopal baldhcads of the
i mission station, they ought U> have known batter.
1 As might have been expected, a great storm arose,
add U»a> turned a kind of gray heree oolour through
abject terror. “Oh! Billygoat, Billygoat,
groaned the stupider of the two. “we ll bo
drowned! ” “ Shut up.” retorted who^
puttenMeh They got
safe ashore at last, and to tlio end of his dark
days Billygoat'» friend will be thankful that no
1 poned in America.
Wo should all loro thoroughbred Chris-
tians. especially when pollcomcn. 10.
wall os n small mob of sheep, <'»r. fmij sln'pllt rilril
bf the dbsdntoo's <iog. They collared the sheep.
»I«!le. lee., and shot the faithful coble. supposing
hltn to be unregistered.
Tho land business of Australia is getting so
mixed that a man really does not know hi* own
name For Instance. William Wall recently se-
lected some land at Attunga, andsn objection
ho never recollected
having any other name than plaln^toMy^WU.
stetding "had'used "that patriarchal oognomen,
when he scruffbd him into gaol. Wall s mother
aim swore that his name Was William, iand when
a copy of the registrar was produced she was
aroaaed to find she had been railing
Sgjg* boon '
£S£ES ;;;js9S
EHfiH'ri’'.iS? “ ;'o*S“ h X';;
a chance to And out whether he was the child who
dlod In Infancy or the one who grow up, or
In thunder he was anyhow.
This tale bears such unmistakeablc trace*
of the Jttjjtt U>et wo^have
readers. A few months ago a shark swAljowed a
Atvsr In full dress Otr Port Macquario. and a week
after that he swallowed a cow. and then chased its
lalf seven miles. Later on his " sliarkship camo
thif o Unit page of whloh was-printed.
1.1. U. W«1 Ul ChritUnaa « _
It was years ago,
when Sir Joseph George
Loeg Inncs was as pUin
just making his debiit on
(ho Queensland District
horseback ouUlde a pub-
lic house In the little town
of Roma. Wishing to
soelng any place whero
ho consigned the animal
well; and for three mor-
tal hoars tho judicial
thing dawned on tho mind
Queens lander’ with iron
leal elfhslvcnis . “Ipald-
Thank you, sir." The
just come’from England
anyone lower than a duke
for a shilling, and he
couldn't understand how
that coin was despised
Tho average Sftlrationiat i* a whole ex-
hausted bullock team at logic and other exact
sciences. Any oeo who doubU this will pleas*.
g jfsj: sjsriwsfis
ponod it Dibbs had slopped to kiss Philip's grand*
mdlhor, and. to carry the invCitlgation a little
further, ho w tho grandmother would have enloyed
it and how Dlbbs would have liked the privilege t
No doubt if~Hhilip- bad stopped to embrace the
old lady ho might havo ml«ed the chance of
might have dropped instead on a Philistine sun-
downer or a Hittito twagsman and done a IttUe
good among the poor. Kven tho Salvationist,
when he is breaking the legi of logic In his efforts
to hnnt up little Biblo precedents, likes to quote a
cose where the obedient prophet is rowurdodby
and haughty nigger.
Tho gaunt, ptnt ihsr, dusty crowd who
arc plodding bark from Kimberley, are evidently
getting deinc/rallscd, if we may judge from their
tho vision of a drybono by way of provision, for
the own: r of these things Is set down ns a bloated,
monopolist and is s'ralghtaway •• cl.awed up."
Anthony Johnson has renlired this fact. He had
£ll4 In ensb, a tnuk receipt for lllioz. of gold,
hulletathrough bis head, and appointed' himself
trustoc to tbeso effects. he buried tho^ body
bitter gaunt goW-hunting gobUn came
Johnson up. Horing now iissorU that Johnson .
fired one shot himself, and then finding his suicide
a failure he aske.l hie mate to finish the job which
he obligingly did, but the chances are that bo
will bo hung-up somewhere through his fronted
anxiety to help a friend.
Little Johnny.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Years the saintly San.-. 10 drew, .
Lay a-dylng—ah the pity I
In the Chlldien's Ward ho lay,
Jir that tnlgh'y southern city
Built upon Port Phillip Bay.
Hls blue ryes were opened widely—
And his little hands » ero idly
PlajiDK with the countorpaue.
On his bed the sunlight shone :
Sl Boon would'wt in endless night.
Five years old that day-aud-dytrg!
Five short summer yoars of play,
Came a gontlo lady slowly,
Sat her down beside hls bed,
And her face was fair and holy,
And she kissed hU goldon head.
“ Johnny," said she, and tho dying
As he faintly whispers, " Pltatt rd
Shoot 'in ic.'m.-ne catapult /"


J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID, S-TOCK OF SPRING GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prioes.
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS.
WHAT TO GIVE ! THERE 8 THE RUB.
THE VERT THING.
An Antophone coat* bat SOe. and la a Joy for ever.
The Autophone la ft wonderful little Instrument
which, while it weighs lose then three poui
the lung* of a full sired parlor organ, and e:
its muaio with absolute precision and
offset. It has twenty-two reeds, plays i
>ai to of most difficult music. On
sctly play, without instruction,
rhlch at present consists of ever
hymns, oratorios, operas.
keys, a
• than three pounds has
. irlor organ, and executes
absolute precision and perfect
‘ reeds, plays *
set difficult m
songs', &oT
luting very lively pieces. LV it UpUdLdf^M
churches, Sunday *
) family circle, and
do for any organette.
new music Unbeing published every weekit has an
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Three tunes given in with each Instrument.
Additional times per last mail. Send for Cata-
ffc£V
ORIENTAL GOLD
ceipt
price.
POMEROY
Zealand
POMER _
, SYDNEY.
Watches i
nal Watch Co., Chicago,
performance of the Watch manufactui
carried in my pockot for a period
hitherto testod.
The Elgin National I
, "Elgii
n better than a line box chrono-
meter br Negus, belonging to this observatory.
I Intended, when I shall have leisure, to
n judge by the performance o:
equal in perform
“JAMES C. WATiO.l,
Astrunomes.
Observatory, Ann Arber.
January X8, 1870.” I
Remember each and ovefy wa‘ch manufacti
r The Elgin Watch Compkny is a Patent U
1th compensating-balance! No horizontal oroi
If throe pounds is more than you can afford
meet you by n
The Elgin C
Pany states.
inufactured and
n National V
dust-band c.
itch Co.'* Keywinding
balance, patent pinion, J flneji
Same Watch
am-winding (K
Co.’s componsating-balance, patent-
lever, open cry
lver dust-band
leylesa) Elgin 1
crystal face, 1
band oase, with 11 a
ruby jewels, pileit pinion, Ac.
nifleentiy engravod hunting oase"ox-
qubdte jewelled movement. No better
quotations. 8 *W BP& °° h0rC for furthor totalled
prices up' to the finest in'the
A FEW SHILLINGS
ORIENTAL GOLD JEWELLERY.
ORIENTALS
GOLDS
»Us 7. pan tiling tit exaetlutre, bendy
tfrteling o*ll. AlHi-
Usuts «• in beet fctadJcr fell Bobu artel, by
«rtiag H iMo IrmlUrf el tit aoit exdiidU d»-
ii*B». The Oriental Gold Co.,
12 POMEROY CHAMBERS
OASTLEREAQH-ST., Sydney, hi
I tageeadnantirf date lately geodi.rhkh they
itUit b Hedpeef lh*oorttf!|«rtiigJljUltnU«x-
Priced Catalogue, eta ttiefthott-
lariag aam pie a, in rf Oriental Sold—
Brooches,Os.; Jewelled (Parisian
Brilliants) Brooch, 7s. 6d.; Gent's
Albert. 73. 6d.; Pair Earrings,
?.Jew
P. 0.0. payable Oriental Oold
Jgj'lTeiend three on approtal. If they don't
pIMM, cetara no Injured by the Ftret
KaH.andtft repay the caik, Uae poetage.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
12 POMEROY CHAMBERS,
CASTLEREAGH STREET.
Parc«ta »ent &njrwh*r« bj port.
GREAT NATIONAL FIELD TRIAL OF
REAPERS AND BINDERS.
SUPREMACY OF THE BUCKEYE.
agricultural pursuits. It is not alone of ex-
vantages it possesi#s over all other machines for
I SS,
ppigHj
Weight sustained by vacuum —A big hat
The Bulgarian throne is still vacant. Wo |
nominate Beach. J/s can stop their row. |
Sir Charles Liljey, Chief Justice of Queens- ■
land, hopes to seo abused persons allowed to give 1
Sir^ Julius Vogel’s is such that ho j
Oh 1 Shemarhonce i Society papers ini
will won be run and read only by the |
Says a Cooktown paper “ The Duke of j
Angus Cameron stands for Kianm against
Brace Smithy Angus Cameron means Free trade
In Cooktown (Q.)tfio Chinwo municipal
THE CURLED DARLING OF THE CIVIL SERVICE.
[?]
[?]TIN
HE REALLYIS.
U tho choice of Chink lea. Ihcro will soon probably
bo a Chlncto Mayor.
S. M.: “ Have you anything to aay ! ”
Criminal: “ Yea, your wonhip, this U the flfiiethi
time I've been up for vagrancy, and I thought that
perhaps wo,might now arrange a little Jubilee."
W. J. Peall has beaten all billiard records-
Aquarium. This score was commenced one after
noon, continued during the evening, and carried
over till the following nftornoon. At It* conclu-
sion, says the World, "tir Robert Peel. unable
to contain h'mtolf, sprang towards the smiling-
llttlo playor. and wrung his hand w.th rapture
nd good fellowship." What a picture 1 The
notorioui old roue who has dovoted his horeditarr
talents to devising tew dissipations—the man whi-
might have been prime Minister, but preferred
the politics of nigllt-houscs—“ unable to contain,
himself " over a billiard-break 1 A sermon might,
be preached about Peall and Peel, the ono is tho
son cf a t übllcan. Ho smokes not, neither drink*,
but what his ‘right hand found to do hafl beet.
donewiihdiligot.ee. Ihe other Is the handsome
son of the great Corn Laws Repealer. He has been
himself over to systematic Idleness. Sinco ho was
Cndor Secrotary for Ireland, and Anally damned
his reputation, Sir Robert's right hand has done
nothing more respectable than tho arranging of
his cravat. The epitaph of this brilliant aquan
dercr of opportunities was written in the “ SUUad,'<
bellerejjn Poole - (fashion-
It Is to bo that
Premier ball-room decor.ton of New South WeJee. Rale
and Dare, decorator*. Ball and banquet roams UxU-fuHj
decorated with flag and floral deoorations, 60J DimU'-streat
THE SAFEST AND BEST INTERNAL REMEDY.
taken sumach!
lhegatlenla. “wt»slTiy,though!
f xbe British force* havnauoooaafully burgled
Itbe Barmese ruby mines, and—’toeflelujah I— have
•dasgitorod a lot more of the ilrregular Burmese
suldlors, whom they are pleased to call'' dacolta"
Afcftsmymen).
£7OO is the nice littlo asm which a certain
i Australian magnate will Rave to pay for tho break
I -igee, &c., that occurred at the teetotal bachelor’s
dinner given by his eon istia leading colonial hotel
prior to his marriage.
New South Walea’ brilliant win in tho
(Intercolonial Cricket Match with Victoria last
woelc is somewhat diseswnted by the fact that Mr.
IVrcy M'Donnell, whaaoored 239, is a Victorian -
{ Editor Bulletin. Sir, —In March, 1788,
•six soldiers were banged In Sydney for at-
tempting to rob Government store. Coy Id
Muik, " Waihola,” Dnrlioghurst,. 3rd January,
s ralnßeuih** Proctor “ feels further plea-
in describing hi! btroko as precisely that 1 whfelTl
have -advocaud on theoretical ground* as-(ho
wroke which mutt certainly be moat effective for
more' Jj“ T
enough to be hta o mother? '° * 80010 J dnme old
“The time may come when some Botany
Bay Tocitus shall recall tbo crimes of an Emperor
dt *cendod from a London pickpocket, or
HoUandenMnto Th ' Wblch h ° . h “ led hla New
' "}t? a 1110 Grand Lama is sending to surf
Who wlUeror qun^s'l.fs^dne^
tb^ | knoc *|** tog^»crfaMrew*"Ml»
pockets will certainly not become more discredit
uj} kno " led «°. that . “■ “ay eventually
tho. possession of a farm of a thousand
UKviKvv k iSO3 r7 ’'* —Syd " ey Smlth ’
Itannej's Orsat tiortharn HsUL Charlotte-Dlso
h . l oSf heon u ‘ ,n ; Tlded ,r °™ 12 “T-tEbTi
the, comnatitl mm i n this yutot thaetij
eoDnok^--
Cockroaches. Bugs, and an other inserts
destroyed by Mitchell's Insect powder w
la Od. Higney, 141 King-street. ’ ’


tor PUBLIC WORKS
SUPPLIES.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNK.
OVER EIGHTY THOUSAND
([?] COPIES)
Of'The Bulletin' Printed Christmas Week
“ From Christmas Day till Wednesday is
a public holiday," says a Queensland paper. A
spree is never completed in lew than lour days
there, and, as they only fco 12 houra’dayllght In a
summer drank, they call it one day.
6ld Dry hash, of Yowlamine station
(N.aW.) is a Christian genUeman, but now and
then he finds that some money can be made by
mustering on 8 on day, so ho tones down ibe im-
piety of the proceeding by reading prayers to the
day of rett,.and at 11 o'dlock Dry hash rolled up as
usual to lend a sacred character to tho scene. The
men gathered round him on horseback, and te
had got as far as "We have done thoee things
which wo ought not to have dono’,— whwi ho
(consigned to 8hool) bruto breaking
sway tharei" Then ho was Just starting again
when a cow skipped and- her calf followed, and
Dryhash, seemingly quoting from 1
while I help that (shrivelled by lightning! mut-
ton-headed fooL You're all a set of lazy brutes,
eating your gor# heads off.” fco. There was a
chase, and tho retreating beet was brought back
•gain, and then old Dryhash calmly took up the
parable where he had left off : “ And left undone
these things which we ought to have done, and
there is no good In us." This patriarch’s services
saw generally regarded as a suoccss. They are
•hoek-fuU of pleasing and picturesqu# variety.
Pcrrotli and Gnmmoniai, tiro (
lass™.
Whr b dfdn” 8 tha W/tnaXtSV »‘' mlt that the
year in Qaeonaland 41U «m «
Arms were declared bankrupt as I ® l ’ ‘
108 245 and 247 during the five proceeding jeers,
and* more estates ,h ““ B
—^Tlio'Protestant Church, withits Sahhata-
»* rn4g« M
filthy vice. In a mighty Christian
blood 1 Imposing adjure
other*"folk U) forgive but never forgive anything
that l.aa done duty aince
geretion *jjj w jU UU$ the winter with Lord
o|J°lLi he “ r i*i"h2lt< tUS° I SI I CT l hta
il?Britiaii a All “” r S°3“ f!r“alrji«l
SSt-STw-toXt beaatlj pta. to acaaonSta.
tton’lchatnow. ■ tt poist loclt-
. j.p.. „
up la ChrUtcadoin. >nr m [he dUtrh!t>
Xdttnd -oMln 4 f d "“ J b t
t-i«n la W
U,6 leaky state of it* roof. The oldest resident
and comfortable
dungeon. They nro right. The prison that would
kill an oldest rosldent must bo quite unfit for re-
A Sydney D.T.
Jubilee by n gmed amalgamation one eeeL
disrtivfrcd that such * thing i, I " po *J l ’^ - u^‘2
thus leaving the i>olltlctans of icligion no
AnglicunJ.
That grand mining-property, tho Comet
Toworkmlne 26.000
Brokerage, £lO,OOO ! But even that's nothing.
We know of one company lately flt>nte<Hn Lon-
took £33,000 and a certain noblo general £33,000
A little sermon by “ Dagonet"
ffit** 1 Riiowßanj*!
in Vrsst'b,*slone ofhb ° rofcsslon*
The plcluic is IAIn O U^J I " o^^^ d^e, h 1 rio C star™T l »Ith
‘huussndsat wllhaUjhs msaiM f or tsse^sod
SrszmSSEyThFeSisf jattfgw
toiat*psiUt>a demands
to gnup the glittering false cclnl dcw
’Msr„'aaii2ssf‘* 1 "'
jspaSara^
rSSfflSJgiljSiViSs::
The National Mutual Life Association
Of Auhtralasia (Limited.)
A few vMki ago the seventeenth annuel general
meeting of the National Mu’ual Life Asaocia'ioh
of Australasia (Limited), was held, and the roport
.submitted showod an
This condition of affidrsto doubly satisfactory. 11
shows tint a callable management of an influen-
tial and wealthy insUtution, in which tho people
place their hopes aa well as their money, and
secondly it illustratee tho steadily growing provi-
dent character of the Australian people. Looked
fhhcr\>e°nuulc genual politically compulsory.
waUt*ng, 8 o r rhiding! in travelling by cab.
rail, or steamer ; by the thoutand and one diseases
or complaints whloh
children dejiendenten u», there are thou*andsof us
without tho slightest distress.
the history tho Australasian yeople-that life
Rjisur'-nco Is becoming every day more popular;
men and women are awakening to tholr respon-
sibilities, h *nd
great wave of trade de-
nresslon which has mode the past year ever
memorable, has Issued 1082 new a
m
“ lt° U d«e?v n e8 h to r be U
muked >< tfcat tho National Mutual was the first
office In the world to apply the surrender value of
life polices in paying the premiums. This very
genereius principle has done proclaim the
whon'he
stands him in good stead when he happens to run
short. Previously* when a man was unable to
ray his premiums payments we£
l^to
of tho Association's business. During tho year
f<6d«v'hsoccurred which, with bonus additions,
and endowments, abeorhed payments to the
creasing them to 379. The wjeat sf tho
birTand large increasing public confi-
dence on the, other. The policy adopted by tho
gsjjg!
THOSE TRAMS AGAIN.
Bill
The Baron and the Shepherd.
A BALLAD TO BEWILDER.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The Baron he sat in a study brown,
B< And he murmured a big, Big D.
* I have jewels and gold," cried the Baron bold,
" And castles and lands gniore :
Mt family name is both honoured and old
(My ancestors wiuled in gore)—
Bat yon shepherd who drlvcth my ewos to row
Is as os happy os I-ay, more.
• r °wi‘a ‘S;S“ of e c^ k0th <aonK '
1 Be enjoyct-h his humble fare.
For his palate is clean and hlspulse beats strong—
Tm wmartyr to blank despuir.
“ 0 I to inherit that heirloom health, *
Though born to a lowly lot.
Yon shepherd boy revels wealth
Would°th**we twain oould exchange by stealth
The treasures which each has got.
With a changeful crimson glow, pj aoo
(The*last of his proud and anclont race
Tho cattlo they lowed on tho distant hill.
The shadows swept o’er the lea.
-Still ho gazed on the landscape vast, until
'The shriek of thought-bird was weirdly shrill.
The shepherd he hi used by thotone log Are
The bright gleams fell on his mean attire —
Most shockingly mean android.
jU, in basso, he gaily trolled.
01 were I tho Baron and ho were I.
For only a month or so.
With never a Borrow and never a sigh—
And the jear-drop stood In the Shopherd's eye
As ho muttered tho word " Hcigho !"
•“ I d worry the servants and rido to hounds.
Or loll in my chair at ease ;
I'd have 'em at euchre for hundreds of pounds—
Also other delights llko those.
With only myself to please I "
-' The dark shades fell like a sombre cloak
While the shepherd indulged in a lonely smoko
: Save that, once in a way, on Uio silence broko
The splash of some restless rill.
Nor spake lie corn word :
/And the spirit of Death stole Uirougli the
gloom—
INo mortal his footfall heard.
Kb gazed nt the Baron and breathed his doom
din a moment this all occurred.)
TothefcOisido hut the spirit sped.
Swift as tho wind that blows.
And lo! fw an instant the shepherd lay dead—
For Death lias a scytho that mows
"With unerring skill, as with purpose dread
To castle or tea ho goes.
•Baron and Shepherd are turned to dust—
More ashes, from which they came ;
For Death in his dealings (s fair and just,
Holicedcth not rankorf*«M-;
He treateth them all the same.
Wild and weird is the night-bird's screech,
Tho shadows fall o'er the plain ;
And cau'ti.i.,.u ; -
Often we sit In a study brown.
And tho sands In our life-glass ore runulng
down.
With a stealthy monetonee.
Oh. happy the Boron ! Oh. happy the clown I.
Neither riches nor health have we.


William Walter Chick, art 14, of ElkJoog,
'certainly caueed him many
ago he was accused by hhs
Js'innocence, and declared he
hours of misery b
Tho boy protested
would shoot himscl
bit of boyish boun
same night.
Apropos of Dr. Creed’s mo
Commlttcoon the registration
and marriages in K.S. w.. the t
sample of the orthography of sou
certificates submitted !
fci^^*^Tum'an5 U tarn l •
r Another lady momber of the 8a
eton evidently graduated at the i
She officially writes
rgh Mr*. BUnsnd MldWMeeoo«j»^
The spelling of “ Apurlal" Is t
the subsequent burial of the
and by tho way, it la also provec
a certificate as the above, a c
buried at Roolcwood as still
afterwards proved to have lived
1° shattered his skull the
recently
mH« A t, B_* BOY A U
THE GREAT HOLIDAY ATTRACTION.
EVERY EVENING.
Terminating in Ume for Suburban 'Bum*. Trains.
Sydney i,nn«uu»
E GORGEOUS PANTOMIME,
rHE SLEEPING BEAUTY
[•HE SLEEPING BEAUTY
""E SLEEPING BEAUTY
E SLEEPING BEAUTY,
r Harlequin Mother
LHAM B R A
la CROWDED with SPECTATORS e
Popular Prices : Orchestra Chairs, 2s ; Sti
Is; Balcony, 6d.
EVERY BUND.AY EVENING,
SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT, atj
OTRAB B U R O CL O C
° APOLLO HALL.
Kidmon's-build I ngs, Market-street.^
FIFTH* WEEK tT ° m 10 FIFTH WEE
GENUINE AND MERITED BI)CCE3S
Of the most
POPULAR EXHIBITION In BYDNEY.
The Wonderful Astronomical and
CLOCK of STRASBURG.
lomical and Apostolic
rRASBUKG.
i Denial ot feter. mo stealthy visit of Sati
GRAND DIORAMIC PROCESSION.
APOSTLES EVERY IS MINUTES
- - >t high and 6 feet wide,
i original, clock,
s. children 6d-
JAMESON, Proprii
Admission Is. children 0
L GIFFETT, Agent.
lURSDAY ISLAND SCHOOL OF ARTS.
rjTHURSDAY ISLAND S
r Particulars and Terms apply L
RICKARDS-LEETE COMPANY
Mr Hsrry Rickards. Austr^U^Univere^Fa
London* Specialty Artiste will opon Launcestor
Academy of Music. Monday, Dec. 27; Melbourne
Ballarat, Sandhurst, to follow.
r.Sydnoy Hall; General Manager
r. Philip Btuart.
MAP SHOWING PASTORAL HOLDINGS.
A MAP of New South Wales showing t>>
division of Pastoral Holdings oJAw scalo
be obtained a
1 BMiITILS BANK Of STDHET
lEBTABLIBHKD 1889 V .
ip Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund, dl 65,000
Hon. Sir Chairman.
George a. uairo, n*q.
Hon. Philip Gldley King, M.L.C.
C. RolleeUm. Keq., C.M.C.
.A. A. Wilson.' I Hector Allen.
SBJiJ!rKSy^lSs»B , ffiS2f
doiTbouicß : 188 Leadcnhailetoyt. .
fJIHK CLIMAX OF PERFECTION
MONTSERRAT
T-TMV. FRUIT JUICE SAUCE.
BOLD EVERYWHERE.
QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS, N. AND 0.
DIVISION.
Calms and Herberlon Hailu>ar-S*ct<on *.
y^WfilirSrSsstiSK
Cal mi and Townsville, and *» on and
Commissioner tor " J ’^n' o ° emb er.
after MONDAY, the 16th day of Nowmow.
1886, whore aL*o^fornv|Of
be deposited at tho
mlsaioner for Ralls
p.m. on FRIDAY,
The lowest
be accepted.
Iwajrs, not later than F
_, the 14 day of Jannar
any Tender will not i
Brisbane, Bth Ootober, 1886.
JOHN NO AXE
tobacconist,
HAS Just landed 800 dosen well-aasort
STICKS froir the principal manufactory
Paris, and offers them to his patrons and t
general publio at prices suitable to all.
BOLD, BILVIB, nd NICKEL MODNTID.
pall NT A-X-.Hi,
33 Hunter-street, Sydnej
Lawler's 608 Lawler'
GBOftGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
Between Liverpool and Bithursb S tree's.
| Established 1860.1
Ths Place for B.rgains in EARTHENWARE
- GLASSWARE
. CHINA
t CUTLERY
J FURNITURE
BEDSTEADS
S BEDDING
£ CARPETS
> FLOORCLOTHS
a I
S £
S 3
o putting, or profession
os all the other house# put together. Value ai
straightforwardness, civility and promptness at
liAWtEI'S 808 Bsorge-strset, Sydnet
RUSTON PROCTOR & CO.’
"TRIUMPH” THRASHING MACHINES.
Simon's Rollks System of Floor Milline
Sole Agents i
E. C. ELLIOTT & CO.,
647 KENT STREET, SYDNE
KSUPEOLL 7
EXTRA BUPERFINE
PLOTJE!
The only place where
pipes are satisfactorily
SUPPORT Colonial Industry I Buy yc
5 at a ROSENTHAL. 1 Little
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
. Rheumatic
Doloreux, J
ACE, or HEAD.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. BOUTHAM-S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give Instant Relief and Cure In a few dayi.
The Australian Remedy. No change In diet
necessary 1 In Bottles, la, Sa 6d., 6a, and 10a
e Best and Safest Romedy for Bad
t g Swelling Sandy
e sight. Numerous tea-
have recovered through
Admitted by the Medical
' it manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
I fl. L ROSE, Phamacwtioal Chamlst,
| 681 Q«org©-stroet only.
p.
HATS CAPS
WjQ
-fWteORCE ST
■stmet-mi
4p/Jhitb JtaajtSCenj 'i^A
3T3DN'iN'3BI^X/Y’g}
HORSE & CATTLE BAZAAR
JO6 PITT STREET, and 148 CASTLERKAQH
STREET.
Establishment: 68 Hcntxr.Stbkt.
W. GARLING
(PROPRIETOR),
Auctioneer ft General Live Stock Agent
business Is the largest In Sydney,
racing stock. High-class
• ad by auction. Bust-
jr. Corresponder
relative to state of market, and all matters
gardlng horses and cattle, personally attended
Beet faculties for landing
Insurance (Including nianni
stock, rates fo
T__
horses disposod of
shipping stock,
be obtained on applies-
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
263 to 260 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Hara always In STOCK, for
SALE to ike TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
IARTHENWARE
(TINES, BEERS, AMD SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agent* far
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whlaky.
. c *ORIN and 00.'8
.. T. OATEN’S
Schnapps and Camera.
A. MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ala.
FOLEY’S SYDHEY OHOfiSIUX,
WHITK HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET,
INSTRUCTION given every day
Gymnastic*, Wrestling, Feneiag
tarn*, Ac. apply to
Jar
Manager and Instructor.
mHE BANK OF NXW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES;
64 PITT BTRKKT, and 558 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital ... ... *1.000.006
Reserve fund 675,000
The Bank haa Agents In aU the
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
' CANADA and cfn offer special facllltlos^for
Credit.
i can be ascertained oa
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.
Drafts issued «
able term* at ratee
HIGH-OLASS PHOTOGRAPHY.
Messrs. CHARLEMONT &. Co.
33 liberal patronage shown t
Their PHOTOGRAPHS rec.
praise, and are acknowledged U
▼oetlbule leading to
i exhibition In the
. THOMAS CLEAVE.
i Victoria,
Photographing Her
i, Prlnoe Imperial, Ac.. Ac., will
sssss »k u».
desirous of sitting should make appointments la
the early part of the day.
GROSVENOTmLERIES.
Royal Axoade.
R.
M .
(late of the Detective Foroe),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
43 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
A brooders ami _ wile demurs *"**l™* to
HifldeoUel Inquiries torVh«W-'T»»-
oertifioeUe of ton*.
r deatfcf obtained
sT'i*lons
SSJW!"*'"
ILLUSTRATION 0a raduoed ulie) of j£l Order to b* fooad la
•LABGE BOTTLES” OF WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS-


HORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
Collar Chock and Bcrge, 40 and 44 Inches;
Large assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladles and
Gentlemen's Baddloe, Spurs, and all kinds of
Saddlers' Ironmongery, &o.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE BADDLERS. AND SADDLERS
. IRONMONGERS,
125 YORK ST., SYDNEY.
0. H. SMITH & SON,'
Manufacturers and Importers
HATS CAPS,
302 .GEORGE STREET,
CONFECTTOHERj
JAMES STEQMAN
St mm' wom's'Kimt s t Ntt* Diminc St
'lCd&m CcJku o*,4>a»d t a»d*»**
SINGER
and Do.’B
Bicycles
Tricycles
. Selling off Cheep
■ JOINMHKS,
883 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ASTHMA.BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
f ATKINSON’S >
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
BTEPHAHOTIS
EAU DE COLOGFNE.
L Remy Martin & Oo.'s Centaur Brandy, In
s Squirrel Brandy
Ca. Vln cola del norte de Kspana, Rlqja Claret*.
Port, &o.
The nneqnalled A.V.H. Gin, fco., fico.
. mu «B,v>r SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £ioo. n '"’
Allow Interest as to!
fixed depoeita lor 18
and UPW
CENT, on
•g;—SEVEN
FIVE PER CENT.
uxea aoposits for li months; irivn. rivn v,i
and UPWARDS tor shorter periods; FIVE
CENT, on earns from £1 to £59 in the Savings ban
Branch. Payable on demand. Offices, 1 Park-et.
J, V. WARHKAM Manager .
FURNITURE, CARPETS, & RUGS,
BHDSTEADB -A.IST ID BEJIDIDIISra-.
THE NEW FURNITURE AND CARPET WAREHOUSE,
AHi
wmm
p^
f> S >rc*
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
JONES, LAWSON BROS., & CO.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
r°
WINEGROWERS AND OTHEH
Q. BTKPHKNBON HAS ON BAUC
WINE CABKB, 250 to 100 *fclloni;
m, Sherry and Whlalcy PUNCHEONS,
adl, Quarter-caaica, Spirit Heft from
““'cOOE^RAGE.
NT STREET, and 171 BUB3KX BT..KK
njMAnd at QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE.
W'sM
SOB By OK BSttSB, BEKS m BBSITt
! mnmn
HI tOIUU
Peerless
Gloss.
I BtiUltf lITBJ
f*n”j. Itlicbid
ptf sin IM Id
Gklllru'i Bulk
Um. Eiisn d
tiMiH till*
knUlt- ilnjl
jhnMlit'ittia
L bmuwiia
tmtoßui*
<M~HMJTNAWAYJt*OH%
GSlftUlCnna IttAlwk
LLAS
'B.HTimm t
I * n6 * ’’US/™ ’^jaioo 10 "*™ J
«l rauj »n»Jqinai»oi“«H
AHONOOS xanift
w.
JOHNSON,
COOPER, SURVEYOR,
1 PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND
STREET, SYDNEY.
Vina Caaka, Baaf Tieroee and Kegs, Tallow
On, new and aeoond-band; also, Win* and
irlt Kaga, at lowoat possible priosa.
M
>, Mar hie, and 1
□ Toabßjailaja
j. cmnciia.
HUmiutruit, Wrvwaaivaqoaam, Brorar
HEALTH IS WEALTH.
ro2ran Used*apccSgl trJ' wAtert*, Diziineee, Oooeulaiona, FiU,
oror .exertion of tto
To^ouaiiXY^il* 0 '
Mod* 1 Ouaraatoe
£lOO Reward I
plain t.'Sw^'^b’hw
LS?S
JOHN 0. WEST 4 00.,
>5 Market-street Stdnry, N.B.W.
it Prepaid bj port oo receipt of U per box la itempa.
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMENT.
oSf “gj2r%zgzrss&, s %£? ksssz
aE^Ssrta-^! I Rjat ggat
Bore Throat and aU dlacaaea requtrina external application.
Bold br all CtoaUcU and Oaalan.
jgßADill, NEWTON, * LAMB,
FURNITURE ud PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, U PHOLBTERERS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING ud fCONMSIL STREETS.,
Full suites for dining-room.—side
BOARD. DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
> ‘NOXMSLN 'inOTIB
n* v ‘*>no®tw am ▼
•»va«o»wi *HErr ‘xanttm
\ RAWING-ROOM E
•ound, strong, and durable
Trichord, fall Compav
Celeste Pedal, brilliant
oaSad^ 11 ”
Bradley, Newton, a
taKm
and L
’ BRADLEY, 'nEVTTON
LAMB, Furniture Importers, CConneU
w
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari
*-1, fitted with Shelvei
9 Pigeon-holes, Slid-
/», Stationery Draw-
revolving portable triple
Stamps, and Rulsr and Pea
Rack*. OnUlde Drawer* divided L
ment* by movable partition* to adm
lag or dimlniahing the *P*oe when required. Lock*
Drawing room CABI-
NETS, Earl/ Bngllah ud
Chippeudala deelgaa.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, Ml
rPBKITPM WAI
O’OoonMl and Bpri— Haiti
I 0 ’
OHIflTt
ticca,
tnm STa.
BRADLKT, NIWTOW, and
' LAMB.
ft
-riXCEUBIOR UPRIGHT
JDj IMPROVED
RKTRIGERATORS,
▼Vhnu BliM,
Tram U*.
Self-adjusting chair ud cou
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
R
OCKXNG EAST CHAIRS, ele*ant and n
ful, a epedaltjr. Bradley, Newton, i
Him
BKABLKY, NKWTOH, ■
Importer*,
gggMgaad Spring Bt n
SPRING 1
Woven Wire, baa
m&ke; elao, Spiral Sprtn?-
L ; Dining Tables, from 20a. K 1
" Id.; Washstandi, from 12i
i, from 10a; Wardrobes,
aoßCTwanucr'^**"
boards, from MS 10a; Clothes Horses, h
Writing Table*, with draw.
. tiiM


It/£ rumxju red.
Z/t.aT- 7*>LAck-TRACK-EKS
are/bAe /mfior-Aset
,hJS /-ore 4r»<tbopfa9
™r"£l;r’. //
I /
Afc<?V- / K/z/rtTR. foj>“ ‘ *-.?
o/Jv Aj'ee. ‘“ e m “Y a * .
Jurrirtteh^, * ur - n !t*
«. z~r/r v **'r ur * n ‘
OFFICE or
Ai'lSlfU fMI£,RATION
/Vy 1/oooueJ - f/lm eSorry To see y ou I
7 c S »« J/S/m.. on/*"?'-*'* I
7Aa/ uere g 0,,« /o eSiOearQ/f
y*?/ 'DaduN - /7n So T Jase SiOore /-T' y / 1
c 7o S eto7ey yea e/run/TCaS/ee *|
CLUSED.
MR NORTON of
NEW 5-WALE 5
HAS THE KEy
.n Mii I’OCREf.
\ <W /o aejct/v- S Tb $,
\ o)iccrcc <S.»rf/ p
I _/fbr/fffl lie unfy /nK)iauTiol
/ST /£ fi,‘ack To/fuslrufio-
-encourage"f*'SH T °
sy/t "7ies'£* / /Vo rtf
Jiee cc tfosf'r/e and TPia/tgpein
\.foress /n. **.*« Ae/ore,li(£' /
7-CSs£f%.." £
i • s:
'KWk rry,e 2>uir*S Sion, /tct Car»<
/o/c Qfyeef fictsf tOeT/ur-tlay (o'/frfr'**-
'J NJV / '. 'Mertn'/s of /#r /netrt>/>o/?/ccn p°-
/ /tee c/Ssrr/c/-. <Jl< /> er,r,/<>>i 4<* n./~ o//> ortc e 4oi
OrclerecZ ceff AandS To /4-e /> u/n/os.
Some Bright Ideass.
